

The Bulletin
Through Gippsland —page bo
Wednesday, September 9, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in • Australia for transmission' liy posVas a‘ newspaper.
"Excuse me, but that's MY possie!"


BOOKHUNTER, Box 3611, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. Tliat difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tee only if successful.
The Red Page
STORIES FROM THE
SOLOMONS
The stories in Wilfred Fowler’s
This Island’s Mine (Constable) are so
good that, thoroughly convincing
though the tropical background is, they
read more like fiction than fact: but it
is as fact that they are presented. The
dustjacket says that “when he was a
very young man” Fowler accepted an
appointment from the Colonial Office
to the Solomon Islands, where he soon
found himself in sole charge, as acting
District Commissioner, on the island
of Ysabel. The period of his term is
not precisely stated, but from refer-
ences to then-recent events such as
World War I and the slump in copra
in the ’twenties, it would seem to have
been about the early 1930’5.
One reason for the impression of
some fictional rearrangement of life
which the stories convey may be that
life in the Solomons then, as it is in
the unsettled parts of New Guinea
today, was so much like fiction, so
much the traditional material of
Becke and Robert Louis Stevenson,
that reality always looks like romance,
anyhow.
Take, for instance, what is practically
the opening story in “This Island’s
Mine,” after Fowler has very clearly
and amusingly established himself as
the shy, inarticulate young English-
man suddenly faced with the task of
ruling an island—his story about the
missionary.
Everybody knows that missionaries,
in the bad or good old days in the
islands (depending on your point of
view) tried to suppress the innocent
amours of the natives, and that is
what Fowler’s missionary does. And
then in all the best fiction the mis-
sionary himself must inevitably be
tempted by a native girl, and fall; and
that is exactly what Fowler’s mission-
ary does. Or, rather, not quite exactly:
for there is the final “wow” that makes
it more like fiction than ever, when
we learn that the girl did not really
come and sit on the missionary’s bed
that fatal afternoon, but that it was all
a hallucination—a sort of masculine
version of the episode in Forster’s “A
Passage to India.”
Take, again, the witch-doctors.
Everybody knows that the young
administrator in the islands must have
his life threatened by the local witch-
doctor when he tries to break the hold
the vile old man has over the tribe.
It happens in life; it happens in fic-
tion; and it happens, twice (with a
sinister tendril of a creeper in his bed
—by which he is to be magically
throttled), to Fowler.
But what, even more than this
inevitable use of romantic material,
heightens the impression of fiction in
Fowler’s stories is their completeness;
how well-rounded, fully worked-out
and finished they are. The sorcerer,
for one, rounds himself off by hanging
himself.
Life, even in the islands, so often
gives you unfinished stories. You
catch a glimpse of a man, you are
mixed-up in one episode of his career;
and then you lose track of him. But
here, if a character comes on stage, he
goes right through his drama to the
appropriate final curtain.
Consider the excellent story of the
broken-down planter named Jardine,
living alone like a hatter on an out-
lying island and nobly entertaining the
administrator to dinner on mushrooms
which he grows on a rotten log. We
could well lose track of Jardine at any
point of the story—after that first visit;
or when he is found desperately ill and
taken to hospital; or when he recovers
and takes a job and prospers; or when
he returns to his solitude and shoots
at the administrator’s schooner to
attract him ashore for a conversation
about his alleged discovery of oil. But
we follow Jardine right through until,
in the perfect climax for fiction, he falls
with a broken leg on one of his pros-
pecting excursions and is eaten alive
by driver-ants.
Or take the colorful episode of “the
woman from Sydney” who rashly came
up to the Solomons in search of her
planter-husband who was living in rum
and sin with two or three native wives.
Once again it is complete as a short-
story; once again, if it is natural that
she should tell the administrator what
happened when she met her husband
(“If anyone’s entitled to know, you
are”), this is exactly the device a
short-story writer would have to use
to depict the scene; and if the climax
of that episode, when, to drive the
white woman away, one of the planter’s
native wives bombarded the roof of
the house with sour oranges, sounds
much too like fact to be fiction, it is
still the perfect climax for fiction.
The ultimate explanation is, no
doubt, chiefly that Fowler is using a
short-story writer’s technique to tell
real-life stories. Instead of following
a day-to-day diary-method (which it
seems at the start he is going to adopt)
he breaks each of his best stories out
into a chapter by itself, and follows it
through to the end. The main point to
be made here is what excellent stories
they are: whether in the dramatisa-
tions of the main characters, in such
amusing incidental portraits as those
of the native Fivepounds (who had
been a boxer in Sydney) and the
trader who kept saying “I like your
style” with immense appreciation
when the administrator was castigating
him for dynamiting fish, or in the
general picture of life in the islands.
It is, in fact, as good a book of island
stories as you could hope to come
across.
NOCTURNE
Easily in your beauty
Through untroubled darkness,
Quietly lie asleep
While the stars above you
Their ancient stations keep.
Loosened hair that tumbles
Wide across your pillow
Circumscribes a dream
Where all creatures court you
By a shadowed stream.
But should a hint of shadow
Cloud your face a moment
Then J stir in fear,
Knowing what 1 could offer you
Were 1 only near.
Only in your dreams, dear,
Will you now pass lonely
Under rain or sun :
You roam where I cannot reach you
Until the dawn comes on.
While this wind and darkness
Gallop on the rooftops
May there guard your sleep
All powers that after midnight
Their ancient vigil keep.
VIC.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.
A French Actor
Robert Baldick’s Life and Times of
Frederick Lemaitre (Hamilton) makes
a most readable account of the greatest
French actor of his times and the most
significant French actor of last century.
Son of a teacher of architecture who
died when he was nine, leaving his
mother destitute, Lemaitre didn’t take
kindly, when the time came, to his
mother’s effort to put him to sea. He
got a job as a lion to frighten Pyramis
and Thisbe in a little theatre in the
brawling, bawdy Boulevard du
Temple, lined with puppet-shows,
cabarets, fair-booths, etc.; shocked his
mother by borrowing her black silk
stockings for his appearance at another
theatre in “The Birth of Harlequin”;
and at nineteen was acting in melo-
dramatic interludes to a circus.
At this age, a student of the Con-
servatoire, he was turned-down by
eight examiners in his application to
enter the Theatre Francais, _ but the
ninth. Talma, voted for him, and
Talma was the greatest actor in
France. A year later he passed the
(Continued on page 58)


NEW INTERNATIONAL
AA-151 and AA-164
give maximum capacity within legal limits
ranm
□
REMS
ntklej
an
wun
Here's a versatile, general purpose 4 tonner designed
to solve many truck operator's problems. With a
choice of 2 wheelbases it handles all loads up to
4 tons with ease and economy 154" wheelbase
12-foot body model takes care of heavy, concen-
trated loads whilst the lighter bulk loads easily fit
on the 171" wheelbase 14-foot body model. Choose
the one to suit your needs you can have it with
a 6 man cab too if you like.
Mighty
New AA-151
h l
2* nmarm
K
Here is a big new International truck that carries
a tons bigger load ! The brawny AA-164's
heavier front axle (6,000 lbs. capacity) makes
it ideal for single-axle semi-trailer work. The AA-164 increases
payloads on tipper operations too, especially when front mounted
telescopic hoist makes full use of the improved weight distribution.
The AA-164 s Australian Blue Diamond Engine is so reliable ——
so economical ! It s designed to turn out high performance
over a wide range of speeds, reducing the loss of speed and
power from excessive changing. Power steering is optional and
Tandemtrac models are available. Call on your
nearest IH Dealer or International Harvester Sales
Office ask for a test drive today I
Rugged
New AA-164
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
23 Parramatta Road, Lidcombe, N.S.W. Phone YX1221.
5-11 Pyrmont Bridge Road, Camperdown. Phone LA 4211.
FMT33B/»


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Sept. 9, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4152
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings ( opposite
G.P.O. ), Wellington.
TEACHING THE ASIANS
AFTER years of complacency, the
world is waking-up to the leakage
going on through the Asian Com-
munist floor onto those who dwell
underneath it.
Every crack is oozing Red subver-
sion and violence, sweetened with
persuasive fraud. The poor, under-fed
southern Asians are apt to feel that
conquest or infiltration and enslave-
ment are lesser problems than those
of keeping alive and clad.
They have been overrun so many
times and have seen the conquerors go
so often that their standards in the
matter are not the same as those of
the West.
Let the Russians invade Afghani-
stan. It is hundreds of miles away.
Let them take Tibet and push over
the towering Himalayas and establish
a line of aggression on the Indian side
from which they can, in due time,
pour down to the Indian Ocean. Who
cares what happens in Bhutan? Who,
from Madras, ever goes to Khatmandu
or from the Deccan to Ladakh?
Millions of Indians have never heard
of Ladakh. And what is the use of
explaining that the suave gentleman
able to give one machinery and goods
at will is a despicable enemy boring-
in to start a rot in Indian or Malayan
civilisation?
The main point about him is that
he has something to give away. And
if later he turns-out to have a large
stick concealed behind his back and
begins laying-on with it. hasn't one
been used to being beaten by some-
body all one’s life?
One of the main features about the
situation is that southern Asia is with-
out racial cohesion, short on inter-
national planning and co-operation
and without unified thought and
policy, or of procedure and method
of progressing. It is now opposed to
a Red system which has developed a
cold-blooded efficiency, complete
unity of thought among all its national
leaders, whether they be Chinese or
Russian, and a common purpose as a
bloc; a purpose of whole peoples care-
fully directed by a ruthless and per-
sistent general staff. The South
Asians, despite the fact that they have
acquired leaderships which try to
think and act like their prototypes of
the West, are nations of individualists
without any natural policy other than
that based on everybody for himself
and let the herd look after itself.
Orfe of the most pathetic features
is their inherent loneliness and eager-
ness to be accepted and to discover
the recipe for the comfortable living
of the West. Some of them, being
human, are only too ready to subscribe
to and propagate the mischievous
doctrine that all the ills, the poverty,
the pain and suffering and lack of food
and amenities are due to the exploita-
tion and cruelties of past European
occupiers.
The American press, backed-up
manfully by “Pravda” and “Izvestia,”
has inoculated a section of southern
Asia, though not over-successfully,
with the shibboleth that the ejection
of the British or the Dutch or the
French has made free men of the local
inhabitants; that they are equals of the
rest of the world. These disillusioned
free, however, almost universally suffer
from a submerged knowledge that this
is not true. Most of the people of
India still suffer from having 18th-
century peasant minds and peasant
standards, and so do the Indonesians
and millions of Malays whom
colonisers were unable to modernise.
They are fully aware, of course,
that there are thousands of eleemosy-
nary-minded ladies and gentlemen all
too eager to help them by taking a
job to lecture them for one of the
organs of U.N. and other bodies which
consist almost entirely of initials as
vague as their aspirations.
They are subjected frequently to the
spoutings of these people and to their
assurances of the beauties of liberty
and of their duty to plunge in as the
equals of the great nations which have
abandoned the use of force as an
arbiter (theoretically). But what they
receive from them must appear to most
to be merely empty wind —a blast of
moral precepts which wouldn’t fill the
stomach of a flea, much less of a
hungry Indian agriculturalist.
What Asian people ask for mainly—
the demand which emerges as the
concrete core of the expression of their
needs —is practical teaching.
They do not want American moral
flatulence grafted onto their indigenous
systems. They do not wish to be the
objects of U.N. charity, though they
would not be human in their indigent
and unstable condition if they looked
too closely in the mouth the army of
dollar-laden gift-horses who prance
through their realms.
Their attitude is especially notice-
able among citizens and emissaries of
the newly-fledged Malayan States.
They certainly need material help, but
more than that they want the infusion
into their systems, of a small army of
teachers who will enable them to apply
Western principles to government and
development.
They have a few men on top who
have been trained in great universities
and legal centres abroad, engineers of
high quality and originality in limited
supply.
They have turned to experts of the
countries from which they have been
severed by the new trend against
“colonialism” to devise systems of
government and administration for
them; to write their Constitutions and
contrive their education systems. But
the plans and specifications having
been drawn, they want urgently tutors
in all the arts of administration and
living to start the engine of Western
civilisation working generally
teachers who understand teaching in
little schools, who can reduplicate the
kind of village education which is
available in small centres in English-
speaking countries; people who know
how to run transport; people who
know how to administer the land-laws
and who are prepared to instruct them
in these arts that they and their coun-
tries may become self-dependent.
TIARTLY through lack of percipi-
ence, partly because of the expan-
sion of their own populations and
needs, advanced countries do not find
it so easy to spare this sort of capital
as they do money, goods and advice
given at high level.
An effort to mobilise a general
training-force would be worth more in
winning the goodwill of the South
Asian nations than all the anti-
communist propaganda that is flowing
into them. It would, apart from any-
thing else, do much to integrate
thought and ideals throughout the
area.
It seems that, though younger men
and women might be hard to spare
for the kind of job that needs doing,
there is a large reservoir of capacity
among the elderly people who are
automatically retired on an age-limit
from Australian public service.
These, while unwanted in Australia,
might easily exercise a powerful
influence in giving reality to the blue-
prints which have already been drafted
for the new Asiatic nations —very
substantially by Australians who,
themselves, in notable cases, have either
been retired or are on the verge of
retiring.
Both the Malayan Federation’s con-
stitution and its land laws were frame<i
by men of this type.


"AWOKE ONE NIGHT FROM A DEEP DREAM OF PEACE"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Laos and Khrushchev
v While Mr. Eisenhower and Mr. Mac-
millan have been airing their hopes for
peace, a little country in Eastern Asia,
on the strategic road to Malaya and
command of the approaches by sea to
China and Japan, has appealed to the
Security Council to save it from obvious
aggression.
It has very little chance of getting its
help, because Russia, whose Comrade
Khrushchev is also uttering pious senti-
ments about peace, will almost certainly
exercise his veto.
This is on the verge of his visit to the
United States, where, in a week, he will
address the U.N. Assembly, demanding
disarmament and assuring the peoples
of the world over the heads of their
Governments that unless they restrain
their rulers from their aggressive atten-
tions and allow Russia and Red China
to dictate the policy of the world, there
must be destructive war which will
wreck civilisation —or that part of
civilisation which is not commanded
from Moscow and Peking.
Laos has asked for an emergency
military force on the lines of that in
the Middle East to halt the determined
advances of rebels and North Vietnam
forces which are in the country, obvi-
ously supplied with arms from the
Communist countries outside and backed
by a policy in Moscow and Peking which
“does not intend to allow the sovereign
Laos Government to remain at peace.”
It all fits into the Mao plan of 1953,
which envisaged the final Overrunning
of Southern Asia by 25-million men
before the end of 1960.
And it runs with the encroachments
over the borders of the northern Indian
States.
The United States, which is to welcome
Khrushchev this week, has called on all
Powers to rally to the support of Laos,
and that is enough to assure that the
U.S.S.R. will prevent action by' the
Security Council, though it joined with
enthusiasm in the world-wide outcry to
prevent the British and French interven-
ing at Suez to protect their own property
and communications, provided through
their own genius and ability.
That incident was obstructed, with the
support of the U.S.A. and others, while
Russia and China have gone from one
brutal, deliberate and inexcusable aggres-
sion to another. Each outrage has meant
a new gain for Communism. The Krem-
lin must surely by this time believe
that it has a policy which can be imple-
mented without consequences to itself.
The American press and broadcasting
concerns which are looking forward
with delight to Khrushchev’s visit to the
U.S. as a new sensation which will sell
a lot of papers and tie a lot of viewers
to their TV-sets, will be willing to put
the Laos business in second-place in
order to devote itself to the visitor. It
has shown some concern about the possi-
bility that he may be in danger from the
refugee victims of his brutality.
He will be in much more danger from
himself, for he might easily die laughing
as he observes millions in the free world
hanging on his progress as an entertain-
ment as he quips his way bibulously
round the country.
If U.N. is true to its supposed prin-
ciples it must expel Russia, China and
Vietnam and their accessory aggressors.
But it won’t. That would mean the end
of U.N. and thousands of comfortable
jobs.
Reviewed Postal Charges
The P.M.G.’s amended bulk-postage
increases have satisfied most of the Gov-
ernment’s critics. The rise will be from
for the first six ounces and 2d. for
each additional six ounces to sd. for
each 12 ounces (instead of the sd. for
each eight ounces, as proposed in the
Budget). The new rates for commercial
papers have also been liberalised com-
pared with the first proposals, although
•again higher than the old charges. But
the sd. rate for first-class mail will
remain the highest in the world, though
there is to be the offset of airmail of
letters (on internal airmail routes) with-
out surcharge from November 1.
It is to be hoped that the increased
revenue of the Post Office will enable
something to be done about the
atrocious weekend service between Can-
berra and Sydney. The Bulletin’s own
(repeated) experience has been that it
is necessary to post a letter on Friday
in Canberra to be sure of its delivery in
a G.P.O. (Sydney) box by 8 a.m. on
Monday. Saturday-posting in Canberra
isn’t good enough. As to bulk-
postage, The Bulletin gets far too
many complaints that copies posted
in Sydney on Tuesday may be
delivered on any day from Tues-
day (which is smart work) to Friday—
sometimes Monday of the next week,
occasionally not turning-up at all. The
last complaint in these terms was from
a G.P.O. box-number address, where
posting and delivery occurred in the
same building! Most of these com-
plaints, strangely, come from the city or
closer suburbs. Country deliveries are
much better.
Easy Money
The Victorian Public Accounts Com-
mittee reported that the Treasury had
made little or no attempt to study and
improve on its financial administration,
although it should act as a positive force
towards improvement.
Another cardinal offender was the
Police Department, where the efforts to
reduce expenditure were unsatisfactory,
and, when the estimate was reduced, its
programme was not revised. This showed
a disregard of Parliament’s will, accord-
ing to the committee.
In the second report the Victorian
Public Service Board described as a
matter of concern the overtime. incurred
in Government departments, blaming
poor organisation or supervision. Most
citizens who know anything of the work-
ing of the public service are aware that
work, at periods, is organised or not done
to produce the necessity for overtime.
In Victoria there is now a record
number of public servants each year,
earning record salaries each year, and
making record overtime.
Blood and Breath
One of the most absorbing, conscientious
and somewhat surprising reports made
to a Government recently has been fur-
nished by Dr. Keith Bowden, the Vic-
torian Government pathologist, in an
interim statement of his conclusions after
visiting Canada and the U.S.
Victorian officials who are in full cry
for compulsory blood-tests of suspected
drunken drivers, and saw one way of
accelerating the proposal by sending Dr.
Bowden to study the whole problem in
North America, must feel very much let-
down.
He reported that he could find no
support anywhere for a compulsory
blood-alcohol test programme. The old-
established juristic principle that no sub-
ject should be compelled to incriminate
himself is, generally, strongly supported,
and the compulsory tests in certain areas
had neither reduced driving after drink-
ing nor reduced the number of accidents.
In Canada there are two separate
offences —driving under the influence
and driving while impaired by alcohol —
and a person charged with the major
offence could be convicted of the lesser,
which had increased the conviction rate ;
but compulsory taking of either blood
or breath samples was prohibited, and
the fact of refusal could not be disclosed
in evidence.
Opinion in the U.S. and Canada was
moving away from blood-tests in favor
of breath - tests. These eliminated
doctors, took the strain off public hos-
pitals, and permitted the use of easily
handled and inexpensive machines. The
machines were operated by police, and
this fact had been repeatedly criticised
by courts and lawyers. It was generally
accepted that a breath-analysis of 0.15
per cent, meant a defendant was under
the influence, and in Canada, in impair-
ment cases, 0.1 per cent, was accepted.
Harshness in penalties defeated its
own purpose: exemplary penalties in
Ontario and Massachusetts had been fol-
lowed by an increase in hit-and-run
cases. . Defendants were still given the
right of trial by the usual courts, and
special traffic courts, where they had
been set-up, dealt only with minor traffic
offences, such as parking.
Dr. Bowden’s conclusions and fact-
finding are markedly different from what
Victorians had been led to expect, and
emphasise that neither of the great North
American countries has found any real
solution, although Canada’s impairment
charge has possibilities in enforcing
strictly sober driving.


Dr. Evatt Helps
[From Canberra]
Last week the Federal Opposition
thought of a rather novel way of easing
itself out of what might be called its
ignominy, and being able to have a
voice in the business of getting money
invested in Australia.
Dr. Evatt, the Leader of the Opposi-
tion, must be congratulated on his
attempt to elevate his Parliamentary
followers to the position where, instead
of just being critical of Government
action, they could actually debate the
merits or demerits of what the Govern-
ment wanted in the way of overseas
cash.
Dr. Evatt, on behalf of the Opposition,
demanded that Parliament have the
opportunity to ratify all overseas loans
instead of the Government completing
arrangements for them without reference
to Parliament. He made this demand
on Thursday in the House of Represen-
tatives, the day after the Attorney-
General, Sir Garfield Barwick, had
introduced the Loans Securities Bill,
1959, to amend the Loans Securities Act.
The bill legalises an undertaking to
exempt non-resident holders of Austra-
lian bonds from Commonwealth and
State income-taxes, estate- and gift-
duties in relation to their holdings.
Apparently the Opposition, in the
words of its leader, thought it was
“completely wrong” that the elected
Government should have the executive
power to decide on the loans which the
country needed, without its opinion.
Although the Opposition’s job is to
oppose when it feels Mr. Menzies’s
Government is not doing the right thing
by the people, it was somewhat pre-
sumptuous in assuming it should have a
right also to argue about the details, and
by the delay possibly put-off a possible
investor.
It is well known that the business-world
revolves around credit, which also means
loans, and the Menzies Government is
aware of the value of overseas and other
money invested in a rapidly growing
country like Australia.
In principle Dr. Evatt was right when
he said that Parliament should have the
right to consider “vital transactions,” but
surely he can’t expect the Government
to co-operate with the Opposition to the
extent of allowing it to help work-out
the details of the Government’s
administration.
The Bubble to Burst?
[From Canberra]
Is the bubble, in the form of the very
profitable lower-grade beef market in the
U.S., about to burst?
Minister for Primary Industry Ader-
mann didn’t give a clear-cut answer to
this question in Parliament, but he went
pretty close to it.
The strength of the American mar-
ket cannot continue indefinitely, as large
livestock numbers there are building-up
and increased domestic marketings must
be expected soon,” he said.
He also sounded a doubtful note by
adding that the U.S. market had
weakened in the past few weeks, and
that American importers were appa-
rently showing little interest in orders
from Australia for the present.
Still, it had been a good thing while
it lasted. The market had produced
dollars and added considerably to cattle
breeders’ returns. It had also
strengthened the Australian beef industry
and provided welcome investment
income.
Swallowed Whole
On the eve of the conference held in
Melbourne during the week resounding
publicity -advertised the fact that it was
to be a fight to the death by the Right-
wingers to oust the Communists and
save Australian unionism from disaster.
The fact that some of the Right-wingers
who were advertising this meritorious
ambition were very definitely Left-
wingers in practice and associations was
only normal to this kind of occasion.
At the outset the Communists and
their Left-wing allies carried an execu-
tive report condemning the Common-
wealth Budget, on a motion by W. P.
Evans.
It condemned the Commonwealth for
maintaining “continuance of a level of
defence-expenditure inconsistant with a
policy of world peace,” a strange resolu-
tion to be carried by a body which is
supposed to represent the opinion of
Australian unionism and the union-
support of a Federal political party
which accused the Menzies Government
of having “done nothing” to provide
defence for Australia before the last war.
Another resolution followed. It called
attention to increasing danger-signs in
the economy, “concurrent with a
deterioration in the living-standards of
wage-earners, farmers, small competitive
businessmen, pensioners and others on
low incomes,” because wealth was being
“diverted to monopoly interests, invest-
ment-speculators and other higher-
income groups.” In plain fact, the high-
income groups are the family groups
with whom wealth is rapidly accumulat-
ing and in which five or six people
are earning anything from £2O a week
each upward and having the benefit of
the same type of low-rate taxation
which ruled when the father of the
family was the sole wage-earner in it.
Having comfortably achieved the issue
of this propaganda to assure Moscow
that the A.C.T.U. —originally a Com-
munist foundation of which Jock Garden
was the joint founder —was on its side,
the Reds of the conference decided to
“rebuff” themselves for the benefit of
the daily press.
One of the defeats negatived a motion
to hold a general strike to protest against
the penal clauses of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Act. Comrade Jim Healy
is apparently anxious to find a way of
keeping out of the courts, his union
having found that its policy of clutter-
ing them up with obstructive litigation,
calculated to make the court ineffective
in dealing with normal business, is
sending the W.W.F. bankrupt.
Congress, however, merely decided
that the executive should have the right
to treat the court with contempt and
boycott it whenever it did not come to
heel in the application of penal clauses.
The second “defeat” was that of one
of the Communist delegates to the
executive, who was replaced by the Left-
wing secretary of Storemen and Packers.
All the other Communists got back. But
though there are ostensibly only three
of them, they are the Big Three, and
able to control the policy of the A.C.T.U.
very, nicely, thank you.
Then the Communist bloc threw Mr.
Chamberlain into the discard as it can
throw the Federal Opposition into the
discard if it falls foul of the big Com-
munist unions who dominate the politics
of the Australian industrial scene out-
side the realms ruled by the A.W.U.
And it finished up by endorsing a Com-
munist-organised “peace conference.”
Less Red-tape
Although another brilliant young Aus-
tralian scientist, Dr. Brian J. O’Brien,
deputy chief physicist of the Common-
wealth Antarctic Division in Melbourne,
is leaving for the U.S. because of red-
tape, the best information is that frustra-
tion has decreased in the Commonwealth
public service and at an accelerating
rate in the last two years.
This is due chiefly to the retirement of
old-timers, who could or would not
delegate authority and knew every trick
in keeping their power, especially over
younger, and often better-equipped,
officers.
The inevitable tug-of-war between the
senior men in administrative posts and
others who have been brought into the
public service to do specialised work
continues, and some of the most highly
placed civil servants, men of line
tolerance and wide experience, see no
solution to this problem.
The story of the man with ideas being
headed-off by administrative officials
(who are, of course, headed-off them-
selves by the Treasury) is very familiar
in the public service; but the vast
expenditure by Canberra has attracted
many highly trained men by the oppor-
tunities it provides, and their influence,
in addition to the more enlightened out-
look of the younger public servants now
assuming command, has effected changes.
Dr. O’Brien is leaving to become
assistant Professor of Physics at the State
University of lowa because he says he
will get more money, better opportunities
for research and have fewer frustrations
and red-tape with which to deal than in
Australia. He is an expert on refrigera-
tion*, cosmic rays and auroras, and he
claims that scientists in the Common-
wealth service are unfairly treated in
comparison with those in the C.5.1.R.0.
That is highly probable and under-
standable since the C.5.1.R.0. is, in
effect, a Government department in its
own right and a scientific one at that.
At 25 Dr. O'Brien goes from a salary
of £3O a week in Australia to one of
more than £7O in the U.S., which, allow-
ing for some higher and some lower
living-costs, isn’t a bad rise.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
HT'he manager of a Brisbane theatre
advertised for show'girls. In came
a New Australian who wanted to know
all about the job, but then she turned
thumbs down sharply: nothing on,
nothing doing. “Nein, nein she said ;
“not for me. I tink you wanted girl to
show people to seats mit torchlight!"—
“Sanasi.”
A ♦% A
V V V
“Cool Schoolboy”: Obviously the
“Sack” who refers to a headline “Grantz
Getz Stitt for JATP” appearing in a
music magazine (B. 19/8/’59) is a square
sack. The magazine is published for
jazz enthusiasts, and he should not expect
to be able to understand its headlines
without some knowledge of its contents.
Translated the heading reads: “Norman
Grantz, the jazz entrepreneur, has
succeeded in signing leading musicians
Getz and Stitt to play in his forthcoming
series of ‘Jazz at the Philharmonic’
concerts.” The play is on the surname
of Stan Getz—and what economy of
words in the headline! And if “Sack”
thinks that headline was hard for an
Australian to fathom, what would he
expect an American to make of a Sydney,
heading: “Maher Gags Askin, Liberal
Whips Flay Members”?
♦l* ♦> *
“Mugga Way”: Now that a British
surgeon has invented a finger-tip device
which takes a patient’s blood-pressure
continuously, even during operations
and while asleep, people who've been
warned to keep calm may take to wear-
ing the gadget, while office staffs might
buy the boss one and study the dial
before asking for a rise or confessing
an oversight.
& ♦> *l*
“Barra”: “Smithy” (B. 19/8/’59)
supplied “6857” with words of “Rose of
No Man's Land.” For their next re-
union here is the parody:
There's a nose that grows on my ole man
And it’s wonderful to see;
It is red with beers
And been there for years
In his garden of memory.
It's the one red nose
The barmaid knows;
It’s the work of the pubii-can:
For an empty purse
Is the drunkard's curse—
With a nose like my ole man.
“Maitri”: A doctor friend leaving for
a month’s vacation: “Boy, won’t I be
glad to get away? I’m going to do
nothing but play golf, fish, snooze and
.eat something three times a day 1 daren’t
touch when I’m on the job—onions.”
A, A A
V V V
r T''HE sporting world has come to
accept as almost the correct thing
for some pampered top - flighter of
to cast himself down
on the court and sob bitterly, or bend
a basilisk-glare at the linesman, should
his shot be declared out; and some-
times, in extremis, he will bash the ball
he’s holding into the grandstand in
protest. Time was when such a display
of temperament was confined to the
musical world, and it was even expected
of the old-time diva. If in rehearsal an
oboe hit a note a half-tone flat she'd
rush into the wrings, beat a King Kong
tattoo on her massive chest and demand
that the offender be fired forthwith or
she’d quit, after which the soothing-
syrup would be trotted-out. But now-
adays, except for an act put-on now and
then by the soprano Maria Callas, singers
appear to be more self-disciplined than
ever. As to instrumental virtuosos who
visit our shores, their placidity is
proverbial. A sneeze that would send
an about-to-putt pro. golfer to tearing
his thatch is ignored by a fiddler whom
you'd expect to be strung as taut
as his strings. Even the long-drawn,
cacophonous wail of a pulling-up bus
in York Street outside Sydney’s Town
Hall, which might be expected, if music
were to parallel sport, to provoke the
executant into bouncing his Strad. off
his accompanist's dome or dashing off
and biting his entrepreneur in the chest,
is taken with a placid, even a tolerant,
air. The most I’ve ever known an
instrumentalist to do has been to pluck-
out a broken piano-string in a calm,
more-in-sorrow-than-in-anger manner,
and stalk off. —“Bo.”
EXHIBITIONERS
“The Australian Museum (Sydney) is plan-
ning a children's clubroom where young
naturalists will be able to study living birds,
animals and fish.”
Museums are not fuddyduddy
That respect the children’s wish
For a room in which to study
Birds and animals and fish.
Yet there still are disabilities :
Cases, cabinets and shelves
Offer students no facilities
For observing kids themselves.
Suitably preserved and mounted.
Members of the teenage cults
Could no longer be discounted
By historical adults;
None could say they lived for nothing
Or that they defied control.
Posed there in their curious clothing,
Doing things like rock- n -roll.
Popularising the museum,
All their parents and their friends
Would arrive in droves to see ’em
On their days-off and weekends:
“There’s my boy ! There’s little Johnny !’’
“Ah, my lovely Ermyntrude!”
“Aren’t they looking blithe and bonny !“
“Never noisy /” “Always good !”
No anxiety, no grieving.
Though you’re parted from them far —
Mothers, mothers, how relieving,
Knowing where your children are !
No more need to curb and hobble ’em —
You will learn to bless the day
That saw the vexing teenage-problem
Solved in such a simple way !
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


■pEAUTY in the eye of the beholder.
** My seven-year-old son: “There’s
a girl in our class called Jenny,
and gosh, Mum, she’s pretty. I’ll bet
she’s the prettiest girl in the whole
world.” “Well, you’d better hurry up
and grow those front teeth of yours
again so she’ll think the same about
you.” “Ah, that’s all right, Mum, she
hasn't any, either.”—“Threety.”
“Barkis”: Bathing was a serious
business in 1879 and, according to in-
structions issued by the Royal Humane
Society, not to be taken lightly:
Avoid bathing within two hours after a
meal. Avoid bathing when exhausted
by fatigue, or from any other cause.
Avoid bathing when the body is
cooling after perspiration. Avoid bathing
altogether in the open air if, after a short
time in the water, there is a sense of
chilliness with numbness of the hands and
feet, but bathe when the body is warm,
provided no time is lost in getting into the
water. Avoid chilling the body by sitting
or standing undressed on the banks or in
the boats after having been in the water.
Avoid remaining too long in the water,
but leave the water immediately there is
the slightest feeling of chilliness. The
vigorous and strong may bathe early in the
morning on an empty stomach. The young
and those who are weak had better bathe
two or three hours after a meal —the best
time for such is from two to three hours
after breakfast. Those who are subject
to attacks of giddiness or faintness and
those who suffer from palpitation and
other sense of discomfort at the heart
should not bathe without consulting their
medical adviser.
V V V
“J.J.A.”: The Book Fair at Melbourne
University reminds me of the fair a
few years ago where someone spoke
about a man who, having become affluent,
decided to indulge a lifelong ambition,
and wrote to a London firm asking them
to send a copy of every book available
on Napoleon. Shortly he got a wire:
“First consignment of 50,000 books sent.
Larger consignment following shortly.”
I have heard elsewhere of this Napoleonic
collection —does anyone know anything
about it?
-iji
“Eyelle”: An article on the gradual
intrusion of women into clubs brings
memories of when James Wilson ran
Scott's Hotel, Melbourne, with an iron
hand: no female to be seen about the
place. Station men returning from the
sheep - show, cattle - market or the like,
would tell with amusement of house-
maids suddenly whisking down a passage
as the redoubtable Jimmy made his
morning inspection. The wench unfortu-
nate enough to meet him, or some say
even to be seen by him—her time was
up immediately. The hostelry’s custom
was, of course, men only. Family parties
stayed at the Grand, now the Windsor.
❖ ♦>
“Jock’: The N.S.W. Education
Department will try anything once. It
will open a class at any of its evening-
colleges for adults, scattered throughout
the suburbs and country areas, if a
sufficient enrolment —usually 20 —can be
“My husband flatly refused to make ME a gossip-seat.”
guaranteed. It will also supply a teacher
or engage one recommended to it, and
is well equipped with specialist know-
ledge. A new departure is a Judo class,
to open at Westmead Evening College.
The instructor will be H. E. Steele, of
Deniston, who holds the Black Belt in
both Judo and Ju-jutsu.
«£♦
“Yakipan”: Gales, floods, typhoons
and earthquakes throughout the world
bring to mind the rhyme foreign residents
of Japan quote when the earthquake-
season approaches:—
June—too soon.
July—stand by.
August—first bust.
September—remember.
Many older residents who went through
the Great Earthquake of September,
1923, when half Tokyo was destroyed
and Yokohama was wiped off the map,
keep an earthquake-bag packed with
essentials alongside their beds. As the
heat of the summer becomes more in-
tense, they say “Earthquake weather!”
But if one of Japan’s volcanoes erupts
in summer there is less likelihood of an
earthquake.
* * ♦>
“Tom Trout” (London): Serving my
breakfast coffee, the Dieppe (Normandy)
bar-girl startled me by demanding what
liquor I'd have with it: “Rum, or what?”
To my sheepish “Nothing” she (all of
16 years old) sarcastically retorted,
“What! Cafe nature?” and the encircling
Ashers and seamen guffawed. The sissy
feeling stayed with me till I read in a
London paper that, while alcoholism is
generally decreasing in France, the north
still leads with about 133 deaths per
100,000 inhabitants. All the same, I
wonder at the possible reaction if I’d
succumbed to French Government propa-
ganda and asked for milk?
❖ * *
“An Chuidh”: Saw a play that warmed
my Scottish blood. The hero tears into
a public phone-booth and makes a call —
without the aid of any coins.
♦J* ♦s*
“Brick E”: Two reasons why that
jail-made bread tasted better than dodger
produced on the other side of the wall
(B. 19/8/’59): machinery is not used in
her Majesty’s bakehouses, ail the dough
being punched-up by hand; and no
union restricts jail working-times, and
the dough can be made-up and given
unlimited time to “prove.” Jail bread
is made under pretty hygienic conditions
—unless a dough-war starts. I saw one
begin, when a prisoner-baker flung a
lighthearted snowball of dough at his
mate. The compliment was returned.
Somebody else caught the spirit of the
thing and an earful of dough and
within seconds 13 prisoners were having a
glorious battle. Figures bobbed up from
behind troughs, flung right and left, and
dived back to cover. Flanking move-
ments were made around tables ... the
war raged till, one by one, contestants
retired exhausted. Two combatants re-
mained : a 6ft. 2in. confidence-man whose


record of no-violence was belied by his
looks ; and a stocky pickpocket who had
beaten a murder-rap. These two, heads
locked together like bulls, viciously flung
handfuls of dough with an uppercutting-
motion into each other’s face. Suddenly
the big bloke wheeled, grabbed a loaf
ready for the oven (and all jail-loaves
are four-pounders) and slammed it down
in a rabbit-killer on his opponent’s neck.
The fight was over, on a technical k.-o.
Why didn’t the warder stop it? Bake-
house warders are unarmed ; his 13
“What ARE you beefing about, Arthur? We've got our
bus-fare home, haven't We?"
charges could have had him in the
furnace long before an armed warder
could have unlocked the barred doors
through which we building-workers
excitedly watched the fight.
* ❖ *>
“Scotty”: Tell “Senex” (B. 19/8/’59)
that our minister has another name for
those “nominals.” He calls them “Four-
wheeled Christians”: they come to
church in a pram to be christened, in a
car to be married, and in a hearse to be
buried.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sackfair”: Can't accept that there is
a structural difference between jeans and
the old-time dungarees (B. 19/8/’59),
although modern sales-yabber may have
cooked one up. The garment described
by “Narumee” was a “bib-and-brace
overall” in my youth ; dungarees were
pants held up by the wearer’s hips and
anything else available, from a piece of
rope to an old necktie, a hamper-strap
to an elaborate or ingeniously hand-
worked belt. There was only one notice-
able difference between our old working-
dungarees and the jeans that the average
young motorbike “Wild One” wears —
ours were always reasonably clean. As
for the feminine equivalent of the garb
—well, nobody but a cad would say that
the old vegetable-John’s dungarees looked
every bit as shapely.
“Pat”: Hollywood is giving men their
turn as cheesecake. Having apparently
exhausted its supply of lovelies who
paraded as “The Look,” “The Limbs,”
“The Eyes,” “The Profile,” and so on,
it is now emphasising muscles by featur-
ing a 15-year-old youth as “The Shape.”
The lad mumbles huskily through a
new pop-tune called “The Shape I’m In,”
to the accompaniment of a guitar. Most
heartening news of this little number is
that so far it hasn't made Australia’s
hit-parade.
❖ ❖
“Gilgai”: Church repairs are cer-
tainly expensive these days (B. 19/8/’59),
but what about swimming-pool exten-
sions? The 30-metre pool at Narromine
(N.S.W.) was built during the depression
for £3OOO. This included a paddling-pool,
and all facilities. It is now proposed to
modernise the filtration-plant and extend
the pool to Olympic standards, with tiling
and underwater lighting. Estimated cost:
£36,000.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Deb-deb”: The Double Bay (Sydney)
bus was crowded, but that didn’t prevent
a conscientious conductor from mounting
the stairs to have a look-see. When he
got to the top, he called back: “No, mate,
the beer-garden’s full-up!”
“Piketrailer” (Bahrein): Have just been
to sea for a morning with H.M.S.
Centaur and her attendants, battle-class
destroyers Solebay, Lagos, Hogue and
frigate Llandaff, while she did an
“Exercise Shopwindow” for the Arab
notabilities, the oil-boys and the Foreign
Office and Service elements here. A
carrier of some 27,000 tons, with angle-
deck and steam catapult, Centaur, under
skipper Captain H. R. (“Hard - over
Horace”) Law, couldn’t fail to impress
with her slick flight-deck drills and jets
thumping down to be caught dramatically
in the arrester-wires. The gunnery of her
Sea Hawk was particularly impressive.
What mainly registered with me was that
she’ll be in Sydney for Christmas.
MOMUS IN THE THEATRE
“The surgeon who adopts an air of extreme
gravity, sometimes to the point of lugubriety,
does his patients a disservice. It is the man
who is cheerful, even a bit of a humorist, who
inspires the greater confidence.” —Medical
journal.
The surgeon who’s gloomy —
Apostle of doom—he
May be quite a wiz .
At appendix-withdrawing.
At cutting and sawing
He might know his biz.
But the sight of his dial
To his patient’s a trial,
A dampener strong,
When, apparelled and labelled,
He’s theatre-tabled,
Awaiting the “gong.”
But docs, who can double
You up without trouble
With yarns they can spin,
And, laughing like thunder,
Can tell of some blunder,
Like forceps left in ;
Who’ll pull funny faces
While marking the places
They’re going to hack —
Even though they’re beginners,
They’re surgical winners
You can’t help but back.
Should gall-bladder seize-up,
You won’t get the breeze up
Concerning the op.,
If your surgeon is comic
On things anatomic,
And talks of your “crop”
In lighthearted manner ;
Aesculapius’s banner
He’ll bear to the fore.
His profession enriches
Who has you in stitches,
The table a-roar !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Doctors, Drugs, etc .
From D. EMPSON
Animated discussions have followed
the blithe revelation of Mr.
Harold Holt (not to be confused
with Rowland Hill, of penny-
postage celebrity) that the cost of
“general pharmaceutical benefits” jumped
from “about three-millions” in 1950-51,
“when the scheme commenced,” to
“£18,455,000 last year.”
One cause of the leap, it seems, is
that “many expensive drugs are now
widely prescribed, without regard to their
cost, to save the patient the expense of
paying for other drugs which are not
included in the scheme.” This is scarcely
according to Cocker, old boy, or Hip-
pocrates —what? But Hill (no; Holt)
doesn’t concern himself with the morality
of the proceeding or the question whether
those “other drugs” could be used instead
of the “many expensive drugs” prescribed
with such abandon, or whether they are
all of proven efficacy and safety. Suffi-
cient for him is the necessity to “stabilise
the position.” His way of “stabilising”
it is “to extend considerably the list of
drugs which may be prescribed”; to
extend it indeed “over the whole field
of drugs and medicines.” If in the result
the 1958-59 outlay of £18,455,000 is sub-
stantially reduced the age of miracles
will have another addition.
Our Medical (and Hospital) Benefits
outfit was modelled on the British
National Health Service, though there
are important differences. It is not
possible for Maorilanders to cross the
Tasman and return with free pairs of
spectacles and sets of shop - teeth, as
acquisitive Frenchmen pop over from
Calais to Dover—a stock joke in Britain.
Nor are Britons liable for any portion
of the fees charged, as is the case here
—though where the patients are “bad
marks” the liability may be nominal.
All the Briton pays is a shilling per
prescription; in Australia there is to
be a charge of five shillings “per.” the
Holt-Hill ratio being thus continued.
Except for the minority who refused
to come in, all private practices were
taken over” in the U.K. The g.p.
is paid a capitation-fee of 18s. a year,
plus 12s. for every patient numbered
501 to 1500. Average net income is
reckoned at £2500 p.a. This would be
laughed at by busy Australian doctors
who, whether g.ps., specialists, surgeons,
anaesthetists, and along with home
nurses, physiotherapists and opticians,
may, as far as officialdom cares, charge
what they please.
A question as to overcharging, asked
at a Medical Benefits joint, brought the
reply “Oh, that’s nothing to do with Us.”
Pressed to say whether a patient who
thought his blood was being sucked
without benefit of drugs could have a
complaint investigated, the gentleman
said it might be carried to “the Medical
Board.” How “the Medical Board” is
constituted, where it hangs out, what its
procedure is, how long it would take to
deal with a submitted protest and what,
if any, punishment it would inflict on
an offender if an offence were proved,
all these and related conundrums were
left to the inquirer’s imagination.
The British Health Service has been
praised in “Harper’s” by an American
who suffered a slight injury while travel-
ling in England and was treated free. His
article brought acid comments from
American doctors, writing from coast to
coast. One wanted to know why, if the
socialised British faculty had made the
advance claimed, Sir Anthony Eden, who
helped to mould the scheme into its
present shape, gave British surgeons the
go-by and travelled to Boston, Massa-
chusetts, for an operation. Another
quoted adverse “British criticism, in the
one case by Dr. Liston,” an English
physician and now in U.S.A. under a
Ford Foundation grant; and in England
itself by the Acton Trust, which has
found “professional leadership” and
opportunities for “operational studies”
seriously lacking.
A day in the life of a busy British
g.p. has been cited as typical:
Fifty patients before lunch ;
Fifty patients after lunch ; and
Twenty or thirty house-calls.
“Can we wonder,” quoth the delver
into records, “that the British doctor is
unable to keep up with the march of
medicine. Because any doctor can
prescribe the most expensive sort of
antibiotics free there is a tendency to
have a quick look and then let the
umbrella of antibiotic drugs take care
of the rest.” This “tendency,” beyond
question, is already at work in Australia,
and it will be given such an impetus
when Mr. Holt “stabilises the position”
that, for one thing, we may expect
medical partnerships to be included in
the takeover craze now raging in the
business world.
The healing art has its heroes and
martyrs, and gratefully one acknowledges
their work. But it also has its quacks
and its harpies, and is infested with
brisk boys who make or accept extrava-
gant claims for drugs that issue from
medical laboratories in vast quantities
and never-ending numbers and some of
which, penicillin for instance, may, in
certain cases, prove more dangerous to
the patient than to the disease. Sir
Kingsley Norris in Adelaide last week
raised sober doubts about the side-effects
of the use of antibiotics, especially with
regard to strange new types of pneumonia
and bowel-infections.
CJcaremongers and extravagant
_ claimants alike find credulous people
in high places. For example, an Oppo-
sition member from N.S.W. in-
veighing against the sane and
humane Barwick measure which
aims at removing the differences
in the divorce laws, which a retiring
N.S.W. Judge in Divorce considers
cause “untold hardship, heartbreak and
misery,” asserted that insanity can be
cured. This was apropos of the clause
which will remove from the member’s
State the stigma of being “the only part
of the English-speaking British Com-
monwealth in which insanity is not a
ground for divorce.”
It is true that some American doctors
have alleged that insanity is curable.
The allegation has been ridiculed by
other American doctors who, like their
confreres in Australia and Britain, do
not readily accept the magical properties
claimed for new drugs, especially in
what a medical contributor to “Harper’s”
refers to as “the fastest-growing specialty
in medicine, anaesthesiology.” Of this
he writes:
“Every thoughtful anaesthetist is beset
by problems and worries. Is it understood
that a patient’s risk is never negligible ;
that no doctor can know in advance how
every patient will react to these potent
and subtle anaesthetic agents. There is
no single anaesthetic agent that is per-
fectly effective and perfectly safe. There
is no complete understanding of why
any of them works. There is not even
a complete understanding of what the
state of anaesthesia is.”
“Awake, eh? Hold your finger on this knot."


POLITICAL POINTS
Cahill is still avoiding a showdown on
Metropolitan Cement’s overdraft with
the N. S. Wales Rural Bank, although it
is apparent that last year’s accounts
didn’t show the improvement that had
been predicted. The Auditor-General
has issued repeated warnings, but
apparently Cahill thinks watchdogs
should be seen and not heard.
• •
A feature of Labor propaganda on the
Stuart royal commission was th,e abiding
demand of every part of the A.L.P. that
“not only should justice be done but
that it should appear to be done.” Where
was this aspiration during the Hursey
affair?
• •
Mr. Macmillan chose a film called
“Tiger Bay” to entertain the U.S.
President at Chequers. A U.S. journalist
sarcastically guessed it might concern
“British rule in India,” but the P.R.O.
of the Foreign Office icily disillusioned
him: It was about “life in the raw in
Cardiff.” But why Welsh culture should
have been given preference on such an
occasion it is hard to say.
• •
Eddie Ward, of East Sydney, showed
his usual zeal to defend Kremlin
agencies when somebody mildly sug-
gested that the team with the Bolshoi
ballet might conceal an MVD man. He
asked the P.M. to find out if the
allegation were true. How does he ex-
pect a “mug like Menzies” to find out
a thing like that when he and his war-
time Government, with the whole of
Allied Intelligence organisation at its
disposal, failed to find out that their
own External Affairs Ministry and other
official bodies were infiltrated with MVD
spies and agents?
• •
Bob Heffron (N.S.W. Minister for
Education) in pugnacious mood:
If T give an instruction for a thing to
be put anywhere, it is going to go there,
and I am not going to allow the parents
and citizens’ organisation or an officer of
the department or anyone else to sidetrack
any decision I have made.
He was talking about a tuckshop, but
it would be interesting to know whether
it was Bob who gave the instruction a
few months ago which resulted in his
department beginning the erection of a
school in the middle of a public road.
• •
The intentions of the Communists in
the Indian border-States is shown not
only by direct acts of military aggression
and the seizure of Indian troops, but
by a mass campaign of subversion.
Dozens of Chinese-trained Tibetan in-
filtrators have been identified in Nepal,
and “The Times” reported last week
the overnight appearance of hundreds of
portraits of Mao and Chou En-lai in the
little kingdom. No doubt the Chinese
know the Gurkhas well enough to prefer
to try to subvert them rather than fight
them. But by either technique they are
tough nuts to crack.
• •
There are now nearly enough wander-
ing boys from various Parliaments and
associations enjoying the hospitality of
the Communists to form a World Federa-
tion. When they should be giving atten-
tion to the Budget and the Estimates
a group of unobtrusive Australian
M.P.s have been wandering through
Poland. A few more Australians are
off to the U.N. Assembly. It might
make Government less complicated if all
the members of the Reps, were given
permanent leave and the running of the
country were left to Roland Wilson —
who seems to run it, anyway.
• •
It seems a foregone conclusion that
the U.K. general election will teke place
next month. The last election was held
on May 26, 1955, so that constitutionally
the present Parliament has more than six
months to run. It is thought, however,
that Macmillan will prefer to take the
plunge now, so that his Government can
reap the benefit of the favorable
atmosphere resulting from the easing of
tension with Russia —a state of affairs
for which he can justly claim some
credit, as his visit to Moscow set the
ball rolling for the Eisenhower-Khrush-
chev exchange of visits.
In 1955 the Conservatives (under
Anthony Eden) were returned with a
majority of 59. They lost four seats at
by-elections after the Suez affair and
the resignation of Eden. A general
election two years ago would have been
a massacre for the Conservatives, but
recent polls show a remarkable recovery
in popularity, apd it is now the Opposi-
tion that would like to see polling-day
postponed.
• •
Another Communist move in India is
the development of hunger-riots in Cal-
cutta in reprisal for the liquidation of
the Kerala Government. The Com-
munist Opposition in Bengal has been
open about its responsibility for this.
It is a cruel reprisal, showing how little
regard the Red leadership has for the
poor wretches whom it eggs-on to be
beaten-up in baton-charges so that it
can demonstrate the “brutality” of a
Government that won’t let the mob take-
over and wreck the town.
STRUCK OIL!


Is the N.S.W. Education Department’s
alleged ban on fat teachers in any way
connected with the much publicised
shortage of space in the schools?
• •
Matson liners, which always turn-
round in Sydney, have at last found
something to draw them to Melbourne.
They announced a special visit to Mel-
bourne covering the first Tuesday in
November, and Americans booked it out
at once for the Cup.
• •
Chaney, Liberal M.H.R. for Perth,
has suggested the appointment of a
“roving” Minister or “Minister-at-large”
who would be stationed abroad with the
task of looking after Australia’s overseas
interests, thus allowing External Affairs
Minister Casey to concentrate on running
his department. In the field of roving
the new bloke would have his work cut
out to beat the performances of some
of the present non-roving and not-at-
large Ministers.
9 9
Dr. Bowden, the Victorian Government
pathologist, who was sent abroad to
study means of combating drunken
driving and lesser evils, has answered
effectively in an interim report the
periodic question: Why can’t a safe car
be bought? He says it’s because none
are made.
9 9
D. J. Mahoney, M.L.A. for Parra-
matta, is trying to persuade the Cahill
Government to reintroduce ferries on the
Parramatta River. Visitors from overseas
frequently comment on the limited use
made of Sydney Harbor by the public-
transport authorities. Years ago regular
services were maintained between Circu-
lar Quay and points on the Parramatta
River, and Mahoney feels that it may be
worth-while trying to revive them. Two
essentials, of course, would be speed and
dependability. While considering the
suggestion, Acting Transport Minister
Hills should look into the possibilities
of reopening the Watson’s Bay run, too.
• •
Results in Melbourne’s municipal elec-
tions were much the same as in other
years. The A.L.P. won a few seats in
borderline or industrial suburbs; ex-
mayors were defeated ; long-time coun-
cillors were defeated ; a New Australian
was elected ; Stan (D.L.P.) Keon had
some insulting remarks made to him
as he handed-out cards at Richmond and
Dr. Cairns, the ex-policeman, praised
the police.
9 9
The crisis in Laos and events in Tibet
are probably not unconnected as red-
herrings with internal events in Red
China, where production-goals have been
curtailed, largely because of breakdowns
m the commune system. The 1959 esti-
mates for cotton and grain production
have been cut in half, steel output by a
third and coal by 12 per cent. But still
China appears able to maintain large
armies along the coast and a huge force in
Tibet, and to provide substantial help for
rebels in lndo-China and elsewhere.
• •
Faced with what a committee called
“an insoluble problem,” the State Coun-
cil of the N.S.W. Libs, decided by 53
votes to 51 that the party shouldn’t
engage in political action in local-
government. One section agreed that
the principle of abstaining from politics
on the municipal level was more im-
portant than the possible expediency of
consolidating membership and building-
up personalities to confront flagrant
Labor activity. The other section, in a
bare minority, believed that the Socialists
should be hit wherever they were found,
because Labor was using local councils
to further all kinds of socialistic ends.
More will be heard of this Liberal con-
troversy.
• ®
Kim Beazley, supporting Les Haylen's
attack on traditional forms and pro-
cedures in Parliament, said terms such
as “vouchsafe thy blessing on this Par-
liament” sounded like a test for inebriety.
What does he suggest? Blood-tests?
• a
The president of Warringah Shire
Council told councillors they had been
invited to the opening of the new Spastic
Centre by Princess Alexandra and they
were duly gratified. Then came the
news that the invitation was contingent
upon their attending a rehearsal for the
ceremony. Not surprisingly, they were
rather incensed at the implication that
they might be a little weak on protocol.
Some councillors sounded-off in quite
uncourtly terms about the “stuffed shirts”
of Royal Tour officials. Then it came
out that the R.T. officials knew nothing
about the invitation. Nor did the super-
visor of the Spastic Centre. In fact, no
invitation had been sent to the council ;
the document read by the president had
apparently been a circular intended for
mothers and voluntary helpers at the
centre.
• •
“Collins Street”: Neither T.A.A. nor
Ansett-A.N.A. owns a true jet-airliner
(B. 26/8 / ’59). Both lines own prop-jets
such as Lockheed-Electra and Viscount,
though T.A.A. refers to itself as a “jet-
line” operating “jet-flights” with “jet-
airliners”; and A.-A.N.A. has its “Golden
Jet” service. To airmen a jet means a
pure jet-propelled aircraft, not one which
owes its progression to the action of
propellers. Qantas is the only Australian
line which can truly claim to be a jet-line.
• •
Victoria’s State Electricity Commission,
which came-up with an admitted profit
of £422,000 for the financial year, com-
pared with £20,000 last year, has been
learning from Canberra. The commission
spent £26.6 million on capital-works, of
which £7.5 million was financed from
revenue and £3.2 million written-off
deferred interest and other expenditure
on the delayed Morwell undertaking.
In a year or two the S.E.C. will have
wiped - off the special liability of the
Morwell project, but instead of reducing
its charges, the commissioners will, in
the well-recognised Canberra fashion, be
looking round for more liabilities.
• •
When the Federal Government
relinquished entertainment-tax most of
the States promptly grabbed the chance
of reimposing it. Now the Cinemato-
graph Exhibitors’ Association in Victoria
is appealing to the Bolte Government
to abolish the tax, believing that this may
help to save movie-theatres in their des-
perate fight against TV competition. It
is claimed that 43 suburban and 27
country theatres have closed, and that
attendances have fallen from 34 million
in 1956-57 to 21} million in 1958-59.
One answer may be the suggested take-
over of theatres by the indoor-bowling
promoters. A better one would be that
attempted in the United States—the
production of better moving-pictures to
attract TV-viewers away from the second-
rate and monotonously similar fare
offered on television.
• •
“Stromlo”: One of the N.S.W.
Liberals who missed the first division of
the State session (B. 19/8/’59) had a fair
excuse. One of the newest members of
the House, he had never seen (or heard)
a division. He had been told by the Whip,
like others, that he could go, and he was
sitting in the car of a fellow-member at
the steps of the House when the division-
bells rang. By a smart sprint he could
have made the Assembly—but he con-
fessed later that he didn’t know the bells
were for a division, and thought they
were merely signalling the rising of the
House. He’ll know better next time, like
a lot of other people.
• •
Oil- and coal - undertakings and the
makers of nuclear - power plants must
all be feeling a little uneasy at the
thought of the hydrogen-oxygen fuel-cell
developed in Britain and to be built in
the U.S. as a practical commercial affair
—although still, of course, on a small
scale. The British Ministry of Power
has announced that its researchers are
now working on a newer type of fuel-
cell which it is hoped will employ a wide
range of industrial-fuel gases and distil-
late-fuels. It seems simplicity itself. It
uses hydrocarbon - vapor and air with
molten electrolyte supported in a sheet
of porous magnesia to generate electricity.
Sounds like a chance for the “do-it-
yourself” backyard boys.
• •
U.S. magazine “Fortune” has published
its annual list of the world’s ten largest
non-American enterprises. First two
places are occupied by Anglo-Dutch con-
cerns Shell and Unilever, then come
British Petroleum, 1.C.1., Nestles, Philips,
Siemens, Krupps, British Motor Corpora-
tion and British-American Tobacco.


Personal
ITEMS
Due to take-over in December from
Rear-Admiral G. G. O. Gatacre as Flag
Officer Commanding the Australian
Squadron, Rear - Admiral Wilfred
Hastings Harrington is a product of
the Naval College, Jervis Bay. In War
II he served in the Mediterranean and
the East Indies and was at the battle of
the Coral Sea. Promoted captain in 1947
and rear-admiral in 1957, he’s at present
Second Naval Member and will hand
that post over to Rear-Admiral A. W. R.
McNicholl, now Deputy Secretary in the
Department of Defence.
• •
Harry Woodfull, Melbourne Royal
Show secretary, is cockahoop. Princess
Alexandra will open the Show on Sep-
tember 18, it will be the biggest in its
history, the horse entries have been so
big they have had to be restricted, and
there are record entries in many sections.
• •
Alban A. Hale, the new president of
Brisbane Stock Exchange, was primarily
responsible for the clause in Allan and
Stark's convertible notes which allowed
for immediate conversion in the case
of a takeover. Even before the note-
issue was complete the value of the
clause became apparent in Myer Em-
porium’s handsome takeover terms —the
deal has now been completed. Hale will
make a hale and hearty president of
Brisbane ’Change, as well as a wide-
awake one.
• •
Grey-eyed, burly, bearded, friendly,
Father Louis Lachal, S.J., back from his
hilly, jungly parish 250 miles north-west
of Calcutta, would be a striking figure in
any company. Add the flavor of place-
names like Hazaribagh, centre of the
200-by-100-mile territory where Father
Lachal and other Jesuits (40 Australians
and seven Indians) work among the
Adibasi, a few glowing words about these
tribesmen (“peasants and hunters, very
brave”) and praise for the Indian
Government's social and educational
policy, plus the fact that this victim of
the caricaturist’s art has done what many
have wished to do —literally beaten the
artist—and the result is one of the most
interesting visits The Bulletin has had.
The beatings were administered at
Sydney’s Riverview (where, on this
coming Saturday, Father Lachal hopes to
meet old friends at the Indian Bazaar)
inculcating a respect for Latin in artist
Bill Prior. They were not, Bill claims,
very severe, and independent testimony
supports the view that the then Mr.
Lachal,, a “scholastic” teaching modern
and classical languages, perhaps spared
the rod a bit. A brilliant teacher, Louis
Lachal had, Old Boys recall, that gentle-
ness often found in big, physically
powerful men. He was also sports-
master, and another Riverview memory
is of him drop-kicking a football from
one end of a Rugby field to the other.
A product of Xavier College, Melbourne,
he learnt kicking, presumably, in Aussie
Rules.
One of the original, small group of
Australian Jesuits who went to India
nine years ago, Father Lachal has been
there ever since and is going back at
the end of the year. Visits to villages—
CLERICAL
where schools are springing-up apace:
the mission has done a great deal of
social and educational work—are mostly
on horseback. Father Lachal’s brother,
Air-Commodore Leon Victor (“Snowy”)
Lachal, who is secretary of the Sydney
Turf Club, sent him an appropriate gift
—a horse —which unfortunately died.
Then David Loneragan, of the Mudgee
family, passed the hat around among a
few Riverview Old Boys for a motorbike,
which has survived. “The work of the
mission is helped tremendously by the
annual Indian Bazaar at Riverview,”
Father Lachal said on parting, refraining
from crushing interviewer’s hand. We
got the message. September 12th.
• •
Apart from his Johnsonian diet of
whole libraries, Jim Blair (see page
36, this issue) had had a spot
of earlier training for his Mitty-like
performance, as one of the N.S.W. team
in the A.B.C.’s National Quiz not long
after he’d got back from soldiering as
a 2/1 Field Regiment gunner in War II
(he was A.I.F. from 1942 to '45, and
never once a.w.l. —at least, not that his
paybook, slightly deaf occasionally, got
to hear of).
Hailing originally from Port Augusta
(S.A.), with boyhood there and on the
Tarcoola Goldfields (in the rocket-range
country), he was a qualified accountant
and from 1920 onwards had been adding-
up shipping-figures and getting the right
answers to such quizeries as come to a
clerk in the Adelaide Steamship Co.,
when, in September, 1933, his first short-
story came to The Bulletin.
Largely on the strength of the quiet
humor and fine prose - clarity in that
successful effort, he was thereupon in-
vited to come hither in person, did so
in February, 1934, and is still here.
Meanwhile, he edited the “Woman’s
Mirror’’ from 1936 to 1942, has had
several score more short-stories in The
Bulletin and a couple in Coast to Coast,
and has had paperback publication of
No Train on Tuesday (a Bulletin
serial), Pardon My Intrusion and the
inexpensively titled Miss Pennycuick’s
Nightie . . .
And so —over to you (and J. B. Blair)
on page 36.
• •
Appointed Crown Prosecutor in Vic-
toria, James Mornane was educated at
St. Patrick’s College, Ballarat, and Xavier
College, Melbourne, and graduated at
Melbourne Uni. A legal-officer with the
2nd A.1.F., he began in the Darwin
L. of C. area, moved to New Guinea
and ended the war as a lieut.-colonel
assisting at the war-crimes trials in Japan.
• •
“Maitri”: The Rev. S. W. McKibbin,
who has passed on in Sydney at 70, will
long be remembered by many who knew
him —personally or by fame —for the
way he always took the side of the
unfortunate. Champion of the unem-
ployed during the depression, he later
founded in Sydney a regular nursing-
service at Newtown for the aged and
infirm and a mobile nursing-service at
Ashfield. It was his inspiration, too,
that led to the idea of Queensland's Blue
Nursing Service, which has since become
an institution in many centres'. He was
in charge of the Balmain Methodist
Mission during the depression, and there
—and at Newtown, where he later served
—his name is specially remembered:
“Mr. Mac.,” a ministering angel when
he came along with blankets and food
to make miserable lives bearable. Born
near Mudgee (N.S.W.) —his parents
having emigrated from Ireland —he
started his working-life as a coalminer.
Just over a year ago he retired from
active service as Minister of the Ashfield
Methodist Church.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: New associate-editor of
the “Age” is Harold J. Austin, not “T.
Austin” (B. 2/9/’59). He is the son of
former “Age” chief-of-staff Ray Austin,
of the older generation of journalists
who helped the “Age” through the diffi-


cult time when it was no longer the
maker and unmaker of Governments
and was facing circulation and other
difficulties. Ray Austin built-up a good
reporting-staff which proved the back-
bone of the paper’s recovery and expan-
sion. One highlight of his career was a
nation-wide scoop on the first Federal
double-dissolution, an achievement which
a few old-timers in press-work recall
with admiration.
• •
Recently in Japan teaching something
about surf - lifesaving with both the
Japanese Government and the Red Cross
co-operating—Alex Price, a former surfer
from Claremont (W.A.), reports that
surfing is becoming increasingly popular
in Nippon. The beaches he visited were
as crowded as leading Australian beaches,
but they still have a lot to learn up
there about lifesaving. After Japan, he
will look - over beaches in China and
Formosa. He’s hoping the Australian
Surf Life Saving Association will send
representatives to the international carni-
val in Japan next March.
• •
Lately appointed general-manager of
South Australian Farmers’ Co-operative
Union, Ltd., K. D. Williams (sketched
herewith) joined the firm as an office-boy
in 1936. With the 2/9th Armored Regi-
CO-OPERATIVE
ment in the 1941-44 war years, he then
attended Adelaide University as a part-
time commerce - student, winning the
Joseph Fisher medal and ending-up as
Bachelor of Economics. Among other
interests he’s an active worker for the
Methodist Church.
At the A.N.Z.A.A.S. conference in
Perth, Dr. H. W. Bennetts, principal of
the Westralian Agricultural Department’s
laboratories of animal-health and
-nutrition, was officially admitted as an
hon. associate of the Royal College of
Veterinary Surgeons. The award —
highest of its kind that a vet. can collect
—recognises his lifetime’s work in
research. He was presented to the con-
ference by Dr. L. Bull, the only other
associate of the college in Australia.
• •
Roy Lang, head of the Textile College
at the Gordon Institute of Technology,
Geelong (Vic.), had been invited by the
C.5.1.R0. to accompany an Australian
delegation to the second international
wool-research conference, due in England
next May. A Westralian, he has held-
down his present job for 22 years. A
year or two back he visited Malaya,
Thailand and Burma to see how the
Colombo Plan was working at the
receiving-end and to meet students he
had trained. Another of his interests is
the Y.M.C.A.
• e
Appointed manager for manufacturing
by the International Harvester Co. of
Australia Pty., Ltd., Earl P. Dacy had
his early training in the I.H. tractor-
works at Chicago in 1935, since when
he’s held a variety of positions on the
manufacturing side. His last job was
assistant works-manager at the Melrose
Park construction-works in Illinois. He
will now be in charge in Victoria of
operations at Dandenong, Geelong and
Port Melbourne.
• •
Stanley Korman, the Polish migrant
who has become since the war one of
the most successful businessmen in Mel-
bourne, can make it, as they say in
League football, and also dish it out.
Last week he gave £lO,OOO to the Aus-
tralian Society of Accountants to estab-
lish a study-project on open-discussion
lines. On July 29 he gave £20,000 to
the Alfred Hospital for an X-ray and
other services, and a month earlier he
had given £25,000 to the hospital’s
development appeal.
• •
The compleat cosmopolite, a short,
stocky American lately cast-up on these
shores to discuss film-business with his
corporation’s customers. As president of
20th Century Fox International, Murray
Silverstone (sketched herewith) is
accustomed to flying into Tokyo for
lunch, ditto into Calcutta a day or so
later, having breakfast in Singapore the
next day, and three days later being back
in his home in New York's suburb of
Westchester. A dynamo of energy,
Silverstone graduated from New York
University with an LL.B. degree. From
the N.Y. District Attorney’s office he
went into the film-game, and in the
course of the 41 years he’s been in it
he was in turn g.-m. of Cosmopolitan
Productions and president of United
Artists before joining Fox as foreign-
distribution vice-president. Convinced
that there is room for coexistence be-
tween films and TV, he’s here specifically
on a project to put films right back into
the picture—via an invention which will
COSMOPOLITAN
enable programmes to be televised direct
from the U.S. on to the world’s film-
house screens.
• •
Probably the best asset the Victoria
Racing Club has is its chairman, Sir
Chester Manifold, and not the least of
his assets is his impatience with cant.
He tossed a team of Melbourne press-
men on TV in the course of which he
was asked if he had ever had an s.-p.
bet. “Of course I have,” he said, “but
not for 10 years.”
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 56, Sid Thomas, for years
One of Soccer’s leading administrators.
In Melbourne, at 86, Walter Rylah, father
of the Chief Secretary of Victoria and one of
the oldest practising solicitors in the State.
In Melbourne, at 85, William Gray, for
many years principal of the Presbyterian Ladies’
College.
In Geelong (Vic.), at 88, Joshua Glover,
philanthropist, municipal councillor, yachtsman
and rower.
In Nova Scotia, the Rev. Dr. Arthur Jeffery,
graduate of Queen’s College, Melbourne, and
Professor of Middle East Languages at
Columbia University (U.S.A.) since 1938.
In Brisbane, at 75, Carl Fischer, one of
the oldest and most-respected printers in the
Bananaland capital. Born in Sydney, he
learned the craft in his father’s printing-
business, moved to Brisbane as a young man,
and in 1928 established his own business,
pioneering with the suburban newspaper
“Suburbia.” As player and, later, commen-
tator he became widely known as one of
Rugby League’s keenest supporters; he was
a life-member of Brisbane Western Suburbs
Club.
In Sussex (Eng.), at 84, Ernest Henry Short,
Australian journalist and author. Born in
Melbourne, he was London correspondent of
the old “Argus” from 1922 to 1933. He wrote
many books on the arts and the theatre.


ABORIGINALITIES
'VX/'hile Professor Sir Mark Oliphant
V is directing the study of physical
sciences at the National University,
Canberra, his brothers Harry and Nigel
manufacture complicated laboratory-
equipment in their Adelaide workshop.
At intervals on the side, and with an
ease to excite the wonder and envy of
an onlooker, they invent some gadget,
often merely to make their ordinary
work easier.
When, for instance, one of them went;
to pump some kerosene out of a drum
with the type of tin-pump that has been
in use for at least half-a-century, and
squirted some up his sleeve, the brothers
decided there and then to do something
about it. Their aim was a contrivance
that any woman could operate easily
and even children could use without a
flood of spilt kero.
They finally settled on a bulb made
of an oil-resistant synthetic, which would
not drip after use, would fit the standard
four-gallon drum, and could be worked
by finger-pressure, and v/ith an air-
intake aperture which could be blocked-
off or released by fingertip.
It was an immediate success, and the
Child Safety Committee of the National
Safety Council hailed it as a valuable
contribution. Many a child has died
through drinking kero., and unless
children were shown the air-intake work-
ing they'd be very unlikely to stumble
on the secret.
H. A. LINDSAY.
“Wandana”: Anyone know the origin
of “Kanowana” as applied to “Kano-
wana chutney,” which was a bottle of
Worcestershire sauce stirred into a tin
of plum-jam? I came across it in
Ernestine Hill’s The Territory, where she
describes bush life in the old days when
such items as “Burdekin duck” (meat
fritters), “bachelor’s tart” (damper and
jam) and “Darling pie” (baked rabbit
"Now, listen — don’t take me seriously—I was only showing you
how to bring-in the paper."
with bindi-eyes) figured on the menu.
Kanowana chutney isn’t bad —I’ve eaten
it myself, but just how did the name
arise?
* * * *
“Bob”: The Bulletin, Sydney. Dear
Sir: I am batching at the moment, and
the place is in a stew ; I can’t find the
bloody Bully, so I’ll drop this line to
you: There’s a verse concerning country
blokes I read the other day ; I’d like to
show it to some mates to cheer them on
their way. A smile ’twould raise on every
face if you could send it through—about
Tumba bloody Rumba and some Kanga
bloody 'Roo. [B. 17/6/’59, with poem
by John O’Grady, duly forwarded, dis-
guised for safe delivery as “Hansard,”
though a bit uncertain from his hand-
writing whether this “Bob’s” address is
Garah or Galah.]
* * * *
“Pat O’Day”: I hear there’s a rock-’n’-
roll tune shortly to be published bringing
in the Riverina village of Wagingom-
beremby.
* * * *
“Maitri”: A month or two back a
couple in our suburb invested 25gns.
in a boxer pooch, but after he’d spent
a day or two with them he decided he’d
sooner live with a family half-a-mile
away. For weeks (often thrice daily)
there was a melancholy procession as
he was led home to his rightful owners.
They tried shutting him in the garage or
tethering him to the base of the rotary-
line, but he would set-up such a din
that the neighbors complained, and the
second he was loosed off he’d go, hell-
for-leather, to the home of his choice.
It looks now as if the boxer has won
on points and the owners will have to
write-off the 25gns. Some pooches do
have very definite ideas on the families
they decide to own.
* * * *
“Kelms”: At the congress of the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Association
for the Advancement of Science, held
in Perth, a speaker mentioned W.A.’s
wide variety of plants as possible sources
of new drugs, some of them potential
lifesavers. He deplored the fact that the
aborigines were dying out, and we still
haven’t secured much information about
the many plant-extracts they undoubtedly
used. There’s a double danger here —
both plants and aborigines are in danger
of extermination ; and it is being recalled
that an aboriginal who allegedly cured
himself of cancer 20 years ago later died
PAHVEEN, WHO IS CALLED
VEENA
She did not come at morning time or with
the waking moon,
But in the merry madness of a summer's
afternoon.
My brother and my brother’s wife were
praying for a son,
God sent in gay contrariness Pahveen,
the laughing one.
The day that Veena came to us the world
with laughter rang,
The weeping willows shook with mirth
and kookaburras sang;
And all the brilliant summer-beams
came darting from the skies
To light their golden candles in the dark-
ness of her eyes.
We wove her fragrant jasmine wreaths,
put henna on our hands,
And went with gifts to welcome her as
in the Eastern lands.
But she would not have solemnness / she
laughed us out of face ;
She finds the world we know and serve
a very funny place.
So well not bring strange gifts to her
nor sing the Old Land’s songs,
But leave her in the radiance of the land
where she belongs.
Oh she shall have the bluest skies, the
hills where wattles flower;
She shall have the summer and its sun-
shine for her dower.
And you who made this laughter that
flows in her so deep
That she is always smiling even when
she’s fast asleep,
Oh make her wise in innocence, let her
regrets be few,
And may she find the path we found be-
tween the old and new.
N.S.W.
MENA KASHMIRI ABDULLAH.




without revealing the source of the cure,
supposedly a concoction from certain
native plants. (It seems to be pretty
well substantiated that this native had
cancer, refused hospital treatment
involving surgery, went bush and
returned cured as nearly as could be
ascertained.) There may be something
in this, particularly in view of the recent
discovery that a relationship exists be-
tween cancer and calcium deficiency
and may yet respond to medical treat-
ment. Even those plants which appear
to have been studied exhaustively are
still yielding fresh secrets, which makes
the establishment of indigenous botani-
cal gardens in each State a matter of
urgency. A plant which is now on the
verge of extinction may yet, if saved, in
turn save the human race.
* * * *
“Jaygee”: On three occasions a Mel-
bourne daily has given “hare” as answer
to its crossword-puzzle clue “A burrow-
ing animal.” But do hares burrow?
In 1758 the Swedish naturalist Linnaeus
placed both rabbits and hares in the
genus Lepus. But over a century later
Lilljeborg separated rabbits under the
generic name of Oryctolagus (from the
Greek, meaning a digging-hare—in refe-
rence to the burrowing-habit, reflected in
the different structure of the limbs). The
variety of hare introduced into
Victoria in 1870 is considered to be
the Western European, Lepus europceus
occidentalis, which, though a good
swimmer, has never been celebrated as
an excavator.
* * * *
“Genuwine”: “Girls, listen!” gurgled
the radio earbasher. “Have your ears
pierced while you wait at Bigglugg’s
Beauty Buffet, for only thirty shillings.”
Back in Grandmother’s day it was the
thing for the lasses to have their lobes
punctured and adorned with thin circles
of 9-carat gold for health reasons. When
we lived on the lucerne-flats at Boney’s
Rocks, Mum wore these wisps of gold
and saw to it that our brood of girls
got the works when we went in by Cobb
and Co., as a sort of immunisation
against heaven knows what. Faith was
then a virtue and a necessity. Dad had a
mysterious bottle in the cobwebs over
the bails. It was, I think, goanna-oil—
it smelt like it. Rubbed on the chest,
it warded off phthisis: sniffed, it substi-
tuted for snuff: and a swig stood-in when
the stone jar of Jamaica went on the
blink. As a saddle-lubricant it had no
peer.
* * * *
“H.S.”: “I was lying awake in the top
bunk of my cabin,” said my sailor
friend, “which I shared with an Italian
stoker, he having the lower bunk. The
night was pretty wild, and knowing the
age of the ship I thought I’d slip down
and put on my life-jacket. I had great
difficulty finding the jacket as I groped
about in the darkness, so I switched-on
the light, to find my cabin-mate had
already taken safety-precautions. He was
peacefully asleep in his jacket, with my
jacket wrapped around his beloved piano-
accordion.”
A/Cost very young animals are lovable
little creatures, but for trusting
friendliness and personality, plus big-
eyed, soft-coated heart-appeal, my vote
goes to the young orphan kangaroo that
my mate has adopted. She is addicted,
however, to a habit that would be viewed
gravely indeed by the moderns in baby-
health theory: as she settles-down in her
box at night she sucks her thumb. Or,
at any rate, the ’roo equivalent—the
inside toe on the hind foot. No doubt
“Unusual for this time of the year."
the sucker will grow-up to have pro-
truding teeth, and the theorists will be
able to chant triumphantly: “I told
you that’s what would come of it!”
Still, it should be a novelty—a doe with
buck-teeth! —“Sackfair.”
* * * *
- “Jesmondene”: Some niggling in the
daily press about our young TV-addicts
acquiring the American term “rustling”
to the neglect of the Australian “duffing”
prompts the comment that each word
describes a separate branch of an
unethical rural occupation. “Rustling” in
its primary American usage meant
scrounging, as when a hobo “rustles”
grub, and, a euphemistic word being
needed 'for stealing (cattle) the com-
promise word was “rustling.” “Duffing,”
with its original English meaning of
counterfeiting, in Australian meant
“brand-faking.”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: England-bound in the
troopship Nestor in 1916 we faced a
dietetic mediocrity only derivable from
well - deck Army steam - cookers whose
peak culinary masterpieces were onion-
less stews studded with unpeeled
spuds and boiled rice of' remarkable
sogginess and lack of flavor. To our
complaints our C.O. blithely replied that
we were getting the same food as the
officers except that their tucker was
“prettied up.” One of our two mess-
orderlies, in civvy life a blacksmith’s
striker, told us to ask no ques-
tions, put-in ninepence each daily, and
feed nightly one hour late. He and his
offsider gave away the 6 p.m. cookhouse-
parade, but at seven came up from the
saloon galley with four large and dis-
creetly dishcloth-cloaked buckets. One
held chicken-carcasses and joint-ends;
one baked-spuds, cauli., etc.; one milk-
coffee ; and the other a goodly issue of
ice-cream, pie-remnants and bread-rolls.
Our C.O. paid us a surprise visit one
night as we were fronting this nourish-
ment. The was his ; and it was
reasonable, in view of his previous com-
mittal on the subject, that he accepted
our unanimous “No complaints” with-
out comment.
* * * *
“Septulm”: The marble - stoppered
bottle of earlier days (B. 22/7/’59) was
a favorite with McAllister’s orang-outang
because it allowed him to quench his
thirst with lemonade without human aid
or restriction, but time, plus variable
gas-pressure at the Borneo aerated-drink
factory, posed him some problems. His
operative forefinger grew with the rest
of his hirsute physique and could not
get far enough into the bottle-neck to
depress any marble sustained against its
washer by above normal CO2-pressure.
He then acquired the technique of finding
a twig in the garden to dislodge any
stubborn marble.
* * * »
“Lilydale”: We planted 50 queen-
wattles eight years ago, so now we are
favored by bronzewings who, from their
stringybark lodgings, board with us, never
seeking the acacia-seed from the branches,
but preferring to scrabble in the base
soil for provender. In their “clatters”
of up to six, shyness rarely lets us close
enough to distinguish the sexes, yet odd
singles at odd times, usually colorfully-
cravatted males, get about , the dog-
kennels with all the nonchalance of a
willy-wagtail, and will not wing-off at
human approach, but waddle around
composedly.


The century-old jail at Oatlands (Tas.),
round which cluster crowds of his-
toric memories, is now occupied by
hundreds of new tenants. They are black
starlings, which have taken possession
of the grim two-story building and use
it as sleeping- and nesting-quarters.
They can be seen flocking to the jail
about five-o’clock each afternoon from
miles round the town, and take-off early
in the morning in search of food.
Estimated at 600 at least, they’re grow-
ing steadily in number ; and, well, they
wouldn't be ghosts, would they?—*
“North Esk.”
* * * *
“Barra”: Back in the mulga from
visiting Melbourne after 70 years’ absence,
Old Bill said: “Never seen parking-
meters before, but now every pub has
’em on the counter: different to Chalky
“We might as Well put our clubs away for the day.”
Grady, at the Bend, who gives you
change outa his pants-pockets!”
* '3ft * *
“8.A.K.”: Probably nostalgia for the
boyhood dream —and what kid never had
it? —of wanting to be an enginedriver
made me enjoy the more Paul Carrol’s
“Steam Days Diesel Days” (B.
22/7/’59). Still, in all humility, I submit
that, under one set of conditions at least,
the old steamie had the wood on the
diesel. In the big floods in western
N.S.W. a couple of years ago the steamies
were getting through where the diesels
jibbed. Explanation of one of the
drivers: that the driving-wheels of the
old puffer rose high enough out of the
water to enable pace to be maintained ;
the diesel’s wheels were completely sub-
merged.
“Swelpme”: To Australian birds the
nest is essentially the maternity-ward
and nursery ; not a dormitory or weather-
shelter. If there is a native bird that
sleeps in a nest after the breeding-season
has passed, I don’t know it. But the
various species of African lovebirds
take a different viewpoint—when in an
aviary, anyway. The nest to them is
Home—and there’s no place like it.
When Nature decrees that, to make room
for the next clutch of eggs, they must
leave the parental roof, the feathered
teenagers promptly move into another
grass-lined flat and make themselves
comfortable. Only in their behavior in
the nest do the species differ. The
Nyassa is a shameless bed-lover. Long
before other birds have finished the final
feed for the night he has metaphorically
put the cat out. Nor does he believe in
the “Early to bed, early to rise” maxim;
Nine-o’clock is early enough for him on
a cold morning—or even 10-o’clock on a
freezer. His cousin, the peach-faced love-
bird, however, won’t waste a second of
daylight. He sees the sun rise, and when
every other bird has called it a day he
can still manage to see his way for a
final whizz around the aviary before
diving-in to Mon Repos.
* * * *
“Pieter Nuyts”: Odd as it may sound,
cats have boosted egg-production amongst
the wildfowl with which they’ve shared
continents for ages, a fact illustrated in
reverse in Australia. Where felines are
native to a country the birds have com-
paratively large broods to counter the
high mortality; in Australia, which until
the white occupation hadn’t experienced a
killer in the same class as the cat, the birds
mostly have small broods. You’ll find
clutches of up to 14 amongst the ducks,
and I’ve found 10 in a coot’s nest; but
these are mainly low-nesters, vulnerable
to rats, dingoes and carnivorous-marsup-
ials. One ground-nester, the spotted-
nightjar, lays a single egg amongst dead
leaves and twigs, and that the species
has survived is a tribute to camouflage ;
both bird and egg merge perfectly with
the background. But that isn’t proof
against the domestic cat, tame or feral,
and the nightjar is on the way out unless
it can change its nesting-habits or boost
its egg-production.
* * * *
FEATHERED AIRLIFT
T lived on Sydney’s Middle Harbor
waterfront in a bushy gully for 18
years and kept a record of all birds
(local and migratory) during that time.
And the visitors that appealed to me
most were the dollar-birds, those iri-
descent blue beauties, with the scarlet
beaks.
During the 18 years the dollars
arrived between September 30 (the
earliest) and October 25 (the latest).
Arrival was invariably announced by a
terrific “We’ve arrived ! We’re here !”
clamor.
These fellows come south every year
from as far north as Cape York and,
possibly, New Guinea. They depart
(after rearing their chicks) about Feb-
ruary-March. One year Mrs. Russell, of
Illawong Avenue, Killara, who had also
watched the dollars over the years, found
a baby dollar on her garden lawn —a
mere fledgling, unable to fly, and obvi-
ously blown, or fallen, from the nest. She
retrieved him, and put him in an outdoor
aviary.
Couple of days later a tradesman on
his round said: “There’s another bloke
like that in a garden down the road.”
Mrs. Russell retrieved that one also.
He had a wounded foot. And now the
problem of feeding them! They catch
their food in the air. (I have seen them
feed their chicks airborne!)
A day later the feed-problem was
solved. The parent birds discovered them
and arrived with the doings—bits of
caterpillar, grubs, knits, knats, and what
have you. But they couldn’t push the
tucker through the wire. So Mrs. Russell
took the little fellows out, moistened
their mouths with water, broke-up the
food and coaxed them to swallow. And
the parent birds kept bringing an unceas-
ing supply.
One day followed another for six
weeks. Then, on February 14, the
strongest fellow was released, and took
the air—and how they do take it! Two
days later his mate (with the crippled
foot) was also airborne.
The Berlin airlift had nothing on this.
I think it must be a record of salvage
with a migratory and not very getatable
bird! I like to think of these two fellows
winging their way north ; and the parent
birds might say:
The sounds of the city are alien,
And the ways of men are strange,
But we remember a gumtree
In a blue New England range.
J. J. LARKIN.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, P. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I <8 lines) 8L8327
Cables & Telegrams
EMDECELEX/’ Sydney
„A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. TV. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stack Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building:.
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Adelaide Steam’s Win
T>esieged in the company’s
strongroom, and taking
close cover behind the brass-
bound private-ledger, Adelaide
Steam’s board fired its winning
cannonade against the / H. C.
Sleigh takeover forces on
September 3 with a one-for-
one bonus broadside, against
the previous one-for-two salvo.
This time the future dividend
on the enlarged capital is fore-
cast at 9 p.c., against 10 p.c. on
a one-for-two basis, but the
effective rate on present capital
would be 18 p.c., against 15 p.c.
under the previous arrange-
ment, and an actual 7 p.c. in
the preceding term (above the
average of the previous decade),
when there was no thought in
the Adelaide boardroom of the
Sleigh marauders descending
on them from Melbourne and
disturbing their complacency.
(The final Sleigh offer, now
withdrawn, was five H. C.
Sleigh ss. ords. for each £1
Adelaide share.)
Adelaide proposes later this
year to make a one-for-eight
issue of 6| p.c. £1 notes con-
vertible to ords. in 1965. These
will bring in £581,280, which
will presumably be used to
finance some project which, but
for the proposed almost,
trebling of the div., would have
otherwise been financed out of
undisclosed profits of sub-
sidiaries.
The proposed bonus-issue is
to be financed from the
revaluation of freeholds (from
£351,372 to £799,875), shares
and debentures in other cos.
(from £549,810 to £1,742,467),
and shares in subsidiaries
(from £315,380 to £710,138).
No revaluation of plant or
ships is proposed.
The Adelaide board blandly
tells shareholders that the co.
can now be considered to be a
growth stock. It appears to
have been growing for quite
a while. And there is still no
mention of a consolidated
balance-sheet.
Simpson v. the Philistines
At a meeting in Sydney to-
morrow (Sept. 10) share-
holders in Richardson and
Wrench should hear more
about the takeover offer from
L. J. Hooker Investment Cor-
poration, Ltd., and the counter-
offer from Telford Simpson,
chairman of R. and W.
Hooker’s offer (now) is seven
ss. shares for each R. and W.
15s. ord., or~£6 2s. 6d. in cash.
Telford Simpson advises
shareholders not to sell, but
offers £6 2s. 6d. cash a share
himself to those who insist on
doing so.
Telford Simpson is the son
of the E. P. Simpson (B.
26 /8 / ’59) who, in the Union
Club, Sydney, floated the co.
which took-over the old
Richardson and Wrench
partnership on March 27, 1889.
The infant Telford had been
born 14 days earlier in 1889 —
he may have been part of
the inspiration for the proud
parent Simpson making the
promotion-offer to Wrench —
and no doubt has a strong
sentimental attachment to the
old firm, of which his father
remained chairman until his
death.
Simpson slaying the Phili-
stines with his jawbone on
September 10 could be well
worth going to see.
Federal Beaten-off
nPHE management of the Aus-
A tralia Hotel Co., Ltd.
(Sydney), through its bonus-
issue and dividend-increase, has
beaten-off the takeover attempt
by Federal Hotels, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne).
Following Markillie’s retreat,
Australia Hotel shares have
settled-down at 595.
Concrete Enterprises
/Concrete Enterprises-Hold-
ings, Ltd., which was
formed as a proprietary
holding - co. in Canberra
on March 29, 1957, and
converted to a public co. this
year, has acquired a string of
concrete-mixing plants in
N.S.W. and Victoria, some well
established, others now requir-
ing development and capital.
After a start on a major
N.S.W. country building-pro-
ject in 1952, the first plant was
shifted to Brisbane two years
later and there operated for
three years in partnership with
a gravel company, then by
a subsidiary until April, 1958,
"I'm tied-up at the moment .”
when it was sold to the gravel
company.
Major plant now owned is
that of Chatswood Mixed Con-
crete Pty., Ltd., at the Sydney
northern suburb of Chatswood.
Other plants operate at
Clayton and Nunawading
(Vic.), and Kingswood
(N.S.W.), while further ready-
mixed plants are just starting, or
will soon start, at Canberra
(A.C.T.), Blacktown (N.S.W.)
and Preston (Vic.).
The public is now being
offered 300,000 ss. stock-units
at par, which, with the
£140,358 of capital already
issued, will make total paid
capital £215,358.
During the twelve months to
June 30, 1959, with three plants
in full production and one
operating for five months, net
profit, after tax, was £31,740.
This was equal to 14.7 p.c.
on the proposed new capital of
£215,358.
By the end of October it is
expected that there will be a
chain of seven operating-plants
owned by seven different but
co-operating subsidiaries under
a system of control found
already to be “efficient, eco-
nomical and productive of
results.”
Chairman Eric S. Clement-
son anticipates that the co. will


Wishing wont make it so!
m. %
«• • •
%■ J • • •
■ -J • • •
■J 0 •• •
-jr x • • •
>4 • • •
*•*. ••••••
»•••••••
• ••••••'
• ••••' **•
Plan for the future with an
A.N.Z. SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
where your money earns
3% INTEREST
on balances up to £2,000
Turn pipe dreams into reality with this
simple formula:
(1) Open an A.N.Z. Savings Account by
calling at any A.N.Z. Savings Bank
Branch.
(2) Decide how much you can afford to
save each payday.
(3) Pay in this sum regularly to your
A.N.Z. Savings Bank Account.
m
Plan ahead . . . Bank A.N.Z.
A.N.Z. SAVINGS BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ANZ543.2458
have no difficulty in covering a
10 p.c. div.-rate.
The new holding-co. has
taken-over net tangible assets
with an adjusted book-value of
£116,322, plus £29,036 goodwill
on consolidation. After the
new issue total net tangibles
are expected to be £186,322,
with the position at the com-
mencement of the new develop-
ment programme fairly liquid.
The new issue has been
underwritten by Sydney share-
brokers William Tilley,
Hudson, Evans and Co., which
was recently joined by Sydney
Evans, of F. O. Furner, Evans
and Co.
The ready-mixed concrete
industry has had a great run in
recent years, and seems likely to
have a busy future. Part of the
strength of Concrete Enter-
prises Holdings would appear
to be its association with E. S.
Clementson, a building-con-
tractor of considerable connec-
tions who had part of the con-
tract for laying-down the new
eastern roadway on Sydney
Harbor Bridge.
Gillespie Bros.
After a spirited appearance
on Sydney Stock Exchange,
where the 10s. shares (placed at
12s. 9d. each in March this
year) rose to 295. early in
August, Gillespie Bros. Hold-
ings, Ltd., has quietened down
following announcement of
profits up £5276 on those of
the previous year at £84,986,
a half-year’s dividend of 4 p.c.
(tax-free), and a three-for-eight
new share-issue at par.
The net earnings represented
21.2 p.c. on paid capital at the
end of the year (April 30), and
the dividend-rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
was comfortably covered.
Gillespie Bros. Holdings
controls the flourmilling busi-
ness of Gillespie Bros. Pty.,
Ltd., which has mills and/or
offshoots at Pyrmont, Dubbo,
Wellington, Gilgandra (N.S.W.)
and Albion (Q.). A subsidiary
is White Wings Pty., Ltd,
makers of self-raising flour,
plain flour, cake-mix and other
grocery lines.
But one of the most interest-
ing subsidiary interests is a
one-third holding in Mowbray
Pty., Ltd., holding-co. concerned
in the manufacture of Daffodil
margarine. The other two-thirds
are owned by Allied Mills, Ltd.
A point to be remembered
when making a comparison
between the earnings of Gil-
lespie’s and Allied Mills is that
whereas, with a two-thirds
interest in Daffodil, Allied Mills
must show the earnings of the
subsidiary in consolidated
accounts and then deduct the
proportion belonging to outside
shareholders (in this case
Gillespie’s), Gillespie’s do not
show the profits of Daffodil
beyond the amount received
from Mowbray Pty. in divi-
dends each year. And most of
the margarine earnings appear
to be retained.
It would appear that if
Gillespie’s proportion of the
undistributed earnings of
Mowbray Pty. were taken into
account during the past year
its profits would have been
considerably higher.
The N.S.W. milling industry
has in recent years intensified
its activities in taking-over
existing bakeries, and this has
resulted in an increasing need
for funds.
Allied Mills has made two
one-for-four par issues this
year, carrying its issued ordi-
nary capital up to £806,700 ;
and there is £200,000 of 5 p.c.
pref. money.
When its present issue is
complete, Gillespie Bros.’ paid
capital will be £550,000.
On this basis the equity of
Allied Mills’ shareholders in
Daffodil margarine will be
slightly higher than Gillespie’s
shareholders (per £ of capital
held). But when comparing
actual earnings, the difference
in accounting procedure should
be remembered.
Allied Mills f.-p. “old”
shares sold at 50s. last week.
Gillespie Bros. 10s. ords., cum
rights, were at 245. 6d.
Castlemaine Perkins
'T'he perennial speculation on
Brisbane brewer Castle-
maine Perkinsj Ltd., has been


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase company
in Australia ,
k
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years 7%
4 years 6Va% 3 years 6% 2 years 5*A%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3Vx%
Assets exceed £55,000,000
Application Forms qnd Prospectus
• Any A.G.C. Branch e Your Stockbroker
• Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth
Hobart
Underwriting “"brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO GEORGE ARTHUR TAYLOR late
of Gloucester.- —TAKE NOTICE that
IVY MAY TAYLOR has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3666 of 1958 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-
1958 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 16th day of
November 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
CHARLES GRIFFITHS Solicitor 107-
109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
accentuated this year by a rise
in the 10s. shares from 265. 9d.
in early August to 355. last
week. The rise has been
accompanied (or prompted) by
the. familiar story of a full-
scale handout and a lift in the
dividend-rate from the usual
10 p.c.
The co. has been content to
turn-in increased profits each
year and steadily build-up
reserves visibly to £2,072,932
on a capital of £2,400,000. In
addition to the disclosed re-
serves, a special depreciation
provision holds £120,000,
whilst a further £471,112 is pro-
vided for renovations, replace-
ments, and contingencies.
At the moment, labor-unions
in Queensland are moving for
a cut in the price of beer. It
may not, therefore, be pro-
pitious for the breweries to be
handing-out additional benefits
to shareholders.
Queensland Cement Bonus
A fter having just completed
a one-for-three' par issue,
Queensland Cement and Lime
Co., Ltd., surprised the market
with a one-for-three bonus-
issue to ordinary, preference
and contributing shareholders.
Many of the well-established
companies are acknowledging
their secret reserves along lines
similar to Adelaide Steamship
and Huddart Parker. The
knowledge that such reserves
and undervalued assets leave a
company susceptible to a take-
over approach may prompt a
closer relationship] between a
company and the shareholders.
Still More Oil-subsidies
[From Li. Owenl
/'An July 5, Senator W. H.
Spooner announced that
oil-subsidies to the amount of
£213,000 —in addition to those
previously granted—had been
approved. The same Minister,
speaking in the Senate at Can-
berra on August 18, in reply
to criticism of the Petroleum
Subsidy Bill, stated that no
applications for assistance in
the search for oil in Australia
had been rejected because
funds were not available. The
suggestion was extraordinary,
as the bill provides for the
spending of an additional £1
million in subsidies. •
Seventy - seven applications
for assistance had been
received, 20 of which had been
approved, 36 deferred and 21
rejected.
Of the 20 borehole-sites
approved for subsidy, the drill-
ing on nine had been com-
pleted, work was in progress in
three, four were preparing to
drill, and three applications
had been withdrawn. What
had happened to the remaining
site wasn’t stated.
The reasons for deferment or
rejection of sites were:^ —
(a) Geological condi-
tions already well enough
known.
( b ) Exact site not defined.
(c) Proportional finance not
arranged.
(d) Required drilling equip-
ment lacking.
No mention was made, this
time, of rejection due to the
fact that the proposed drilling
was “aimed at testing domes or
other suitable geological struc-
tures to see whether they con-
tain oil.”
With reference to delay in
making available geological
information obtained from
subsidised boreholes, Spooner
said that it was reasonable to
let companies hold geological
knowledge gained from their
operations for as long as a
year. x
It is obvious, of course, that
much abortive drilling might
be avoided if such knowledge
were made available earlier,
and the companies concerned
could be protected from injury
by enforcement of prohibition
of drilling by competitors on
any structural unit on which
commercial oil was struck, or
of offset-drilling, without
arrangement with the owners
of the discovery-well.
/ Most of the Australian oil-
permits are of such area, how-
ever, that their size offers
ample protection. In any case,
it is also reasonable that the
Australian taxpayer should
obtain some return for his 50
per cent, contribution towards
the cost of drilling in non-
productive wells.
The Senator expressed the
opinion, in defence of the
generous terms on which the
subsidy is granted, that favor-
able conditions had to be
created to attract oil-companies
whose resources of finance and
know-how were sought by the
Government.
It cannot be expected, of
course, that even the most
powerful oil groups would
refuse the subsidies so freely
offered but, in the case of the
larger companies, at least, the
subsidy is unlikely to cause
modification of their pro-
gramme. Without causing any
hardship, it would be —in
my opinion—far preferable if
the subsidies were allotted for
payment in full of the cost of
operations undertaken, mainly
or solely, to obtain, in Senator
Spooner’s words, “geological
information that would help in
the search for oil in Australia”
outside the routine procedure.
The orientation of cores, taken
at critical horizons, is a case
in point.
In Australia, every drop of
oil so far recovered, when
obtained in sufficient quantity
for study, has exhibited the
characteristics imposed upon it
by long - distance migration,
and the determination of the
paths which the migration has
followed is of exceptional im-
portance. As the technique
necessary for checking such
paths includes chemical
analyses as well as geological
studies and may be regarded
as “pure” research, it would
appear to be a problem for
the geologists, physicists and
chemists of the C.5.1.R.0.
working in liaison with the
Mines Departments of the
States involved to take advan-
tage of these departments’ inti-
mate knowledge of local con-
ditions.


a :
J
m
u
When N. E. Christie Pty. Limited, well-known earthmoving contractors, put
their Caterpillar Diesel Tractors to work recently at Benelong Point, Sydney's
Opera House had its first overture —the throb of powerful, deep-throated diesels.
But the theme is not new to Caterpillar Equipment owners such as these. The Caterpillar
Tractor Company's world leadership in the manufacture of earthmoving equipment offers tremendous
benefits that weigh heavily on the right side of the ledger: benefits such as quality construction;
generous, honestly rated capacities; advanced design, such as the exclusive Cat Oil
Clutch; assured supply of genuine replacement parts and top flight, state-wide
W & J service facilities geared to match the performance of the
equipment it serves.
Ask your W & J representative to
give you the full facts on the
Caterpillar Equipment specifically
designed to handle your job more
profitably.
CATERPILLA
•CATERPILLAR, CAT and TRAXCAVATOR are Registered Trademarks
•f Caterpillar Tractor Ce., U.S.A.
TRACTORS, MOTOR GRADERS, EARTHMOVING EQUIP-
MENT, INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE DIESEL ENGINES.
Sold, serviced and backed to the hilt in N.S.W. by:
WAUGH & JOMPHSON PTY. LIMITED
tmna
V/J230.115
Head Office: Mitchell Read, Alexandria, Sydney. 'Phone: LA 6631.
Branches at Gunnedah, 'phone 326; Parkes, 'phone 1266; Wagga, 'phone
8237; South Grafton, 'phone 392; Inverell, 'phone 1400; Cooma, 'phon° 657;
Moree, 'phone 208.


Funniest Book since “The Specialist.”
"The Swishing Well"
(Based on Fred Hoinville’s Round-the-
World-Experiences)
3/- post free
To BROLGA P. 0., BOX 13,
ORMOND, VIC.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Pekarek and Erlih
When, after a lengthy
silence,. the Brisbane orchestra
reappeared under Rudolf
Pekarek at the City Hall it
was found to be in remarkably
good order. Its main contri-
bution was a glowing perform-
ance of the Fourth Symphony
of Dvorak, plainly one of the
conductor’s favorite works,
and played with the utmost
spirit and affection.
This was one of those con-
certs in which the tone of the
orchestra sounds bigger than
usual, and here the blend of
sonorities remained full-
blooded throughout. The
’cellos in their fine tune at the
beginning of the piece have
never seemed so audible, draw-
ing the full measure of sound
from their bow-strokes.
In fact the whole string-
section, which had been sound-
ing a bit thin after the greater
numbers and polish of the
visiting Sydney players, was
clearly very much on its mettle.
The symphony had the stamp
of authenticity, and Pekarek
left it vibrating in the memory
as one of the best things he
has done here.
There was another Czech
piece—Smetana’s “Vysehrad,”
first of the six tone-poems in
which he set-down a musical
picture of the turbulent his-
tory of his native Bohemia.
“Vysherad” uses some of the
attractive tunes that reappear
in the more famous second
piece, “Moldau,” and, played
as chorales by the brass, they
had a proud patriotic ring.
Yet there were moments when
the heroics were self-conscious,
leaving us with buckets of
national feeling but not much
music. On its own this was
not enough, producing the kind
of reaction that Europeans
must feel when they hear
Elgar’s English marches.
French violinist Devy Erlih
made an impressive Australian
debut in the Brahms Violin
Concerto. He attacked his
part in a way that left no room
for the stodginess that hangs
over some Brahms perform-
ances. He handles his bow
like a rapier, and if the result
were not musical he might be
accused of being showy. The
first movement was done with
great passion, and though he
was sometimes out of step with
the orchestra, more rigid
discipline might only have
given us tidiness at the cost of
some of the fire.
The slow movement was
distinctly cooler, as though no
one wanted to seem senti-
mental. The lushness of the
famous oboe tune and the
dreamy violin embellishments
on it were unduly hurried out
of the way. The gipsy bravado
of the finale was full of
bounce again, leaving the im-
pression that Erlih will give a
good account of himself in
Australia, having something of
the big tone and fierce
approach of his late com-
patriot Ginette Neveu.
D.J.M.
Igor Gorin
In his first Sydney recital the
Russian-American revealed, in
a refreshingly “different” pro-
gramme, a baritone strongly
reminiscent of the great Titta
Ruffo ; its superb quality flow-
ing from perfect “forward”
production and breath-control.
Gorin has a very rich reson-
ance, and his half-voice is so
well disciplined that it loses
nothing in clarity even when
shaded down to a whisper.
This attribute, together with a
vocal agility uncommon among
baritones, was demonstrated
beautifully in songs by Richard
Strauss,' Frank St. Leger. and
the early Italians Vivaldi, Bot-
tegari and Monteverdi.
The only operatic excerpt on
the programme came from
Verdi’s little-known “Attila”:
“One Day on the Immortal
Heights”—a magnificent aria
magnificently sung. There were
songs by Rimsky-Korsakov,
Gretchaninov, Revutski and
Rachmaninoff all fluently
handled and two negro
spirituals sung as to the manner
born.
The most important offer-
ings in Gorin's second recital
were the Songs and Dances of
Death, by Moussorgsky. These
lour dramatic masterpieces are
like no others in the whole
range of song. None but a
Russian —and especially one so
strikingly original as Mous-
sorgsky—could have played
upon this theme to such
wonderful effect.
The difficulties facing the
singer, apart from interpreta-
tion, are staggering. There are
wild leaps, broken rhythms,
slurred notes, subtle changes in
tonic and secondary accents,
with the whole lyrical style
shaped to the cadences of every-
day Russian speech.
Gorin overcame these and
another major problem—the
need to avoid monotony—with
skilful phrasing and shading of
tone-color. In “Trepak” death
clutches a peasant; in
“Lullaby” a child; in
“Serenade” a fever-stricken
maiden ; in “Death the Com-
mander” those who have fallen
in battle are ordered by Field-
Marshal Death to rise and pass
in review before him, and this
is one of the supreme examples
of tragedy in song. In all of
these, but especially in the last,
Gorin sang with the fullest
authority.
Songs of 17th-century Italy
included Legrenzi’s “Che Fiero
Costume” all lighthearted
banter on the waywardness of
Cupid’s arrow-shooting—and
Alessandro Scarlatti’s grief-
saturated “Son Tutta Duolo.”
Two of William James’s Aus-
tralian songs showed-up very
well: “The Bush Silence” and
the sparkling “The Land of
Who Knows Where,” with its
beautiful rippling accompani-
ment.
Throughout both recitals
Henri Penn was an artistic and
alert accompanist.
“Waltz of the Toreadors”
General St. Pe is writing his
memoirs in the study of his
house in a small provincial
garrison-town in France on a
spring day some time before
World War I. In an adjoining
bedroom his wife, an alleged
invalid for 15 years, is scream-
ing the house down.
The general is interrupted by
the entry of a woman he fell in
love with at a garrison ball
shortly after his marriage.
Their love was never consum-
mated because, as the general
explains, he was much more
frightened of his wife than of
10,000 Moroccan rebels. The
woman still loves him, and he
finds he still loves her.
There is silence in the bed-
room —his wife is listening to
their conversation. The general
fobs the girl off with the
promise that he will get a
divorce so that there will be no
obstacle to their marriage, then
goes in to see his wife. The
next scene beggars description.
All that need be said about
it is that the debate between
wife and husband has as much
reason in it as an argument
between two fishwives. The
wife believes she has a right
to her husband’s affection, and
he believes in her rights as
much as she does, though it is
his and her belief in her rights


Place Your Trust In
ylfOlCO
ready to assist you with
every hearing problem . . .
' The Maico-
Audiometer
on which
90% of ALL
Shearing tests
s. are made.
yffoteo IS A WORLD-WIDE ORGANISATION
DEDICATED TO THE HARD OF HEARING
If you have a hearing loss, or think you have,'
contact Maico for a free Audiometric test. Qualified
consultants will provide you with an accurate assess-
ment of your degree of hearing, and if an aid is
necessary, will recommend the correct one to assist
your personal loss!
The Maico complete family of hearing aids fits every
need, suits every income. Worn on the body, hidden
in the hair, behind the ear or in hearing glasses,
Maico hearing aids are the most unobtrusive, yet
the most effective.
For assistance with your hearing problem write to
ELECTRONICS INC.
A Division of the W. A. Sheaffer Pen Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Heidelberg, Victoria
Please forward me full details of your
Maico Hearing Service.
NAME
ADDRESS
which stand between him and
feeling affection for her.
There is a further complica-
tion. The wife’s doctor is in
love with his half-demented
patient, but as he believes in
the husband’s rights he is no
help. The situation is com-
pletely hopeless. The moment
any natural human feeling
arises in her friends or in
herself the wife hits it over the
head with the marriage-contract
or a bout of screaming.
This is the play by Jean
Anouilh which the Melbourne
Union Theatre Repertory Com-
pany and the Australian Eliza-
bethan Trust selected to start
their latest season. They could
have done better.
Anouilh describes a situation
similar to the one Noel Coward
describes in “Brief Encounter,”
but whereas Coward does it
delicately and sympathetically
Anouilh does it coarsely. He
even makes fun of the plight
of the general’s children, torn
between a father they like and
a mother who doesn't like
them; and he buffoons the
tragic relationship between the
general, his wife and the
potential mistress.
Of course, it isn’t the busi-
ness of the artist to provide
solutions, and neither Anouilh
nor Coward offers one; but
whereas Coward superbly
states all the essential facts of
the case and makes them live,
Anouilh makes them the
excuse for airing his stock of
Gallic wisecracks.
These, however, were much
enjoyed by the packed audi-
ence. Peter O’Shaughnessy did
his sober best to make the
general a human-being, and
Roma Johnston, as the wife,
did her best to make it impos-
sible for him to like her.
M.G.S.
Artbursts
Soriety of Artists
The Society of Artists’ spring
exhibition—now newly located
at Farmer’s Blaxland Gallery
(Sydney)—is often staid, occa-
sionally lukewarm and now
and again sparkling. This
fairly general tepidity seems to
be caused by the large number
of painters sticking religiously
to traditions of one sort or
another.
Still, among the 100-odd
paintings there are some which
refuse to lie quietly beside
their dull companions. Of the
abstracts—and these provide
most of the interest in the
show Thomas Gleghorn’s
two “Drought” subjects are
masterly pieces of composi-
tion, at once colorful,
restrained and disturbingly
ambiguous; “The Valley” of
Judy Cassab is an exciting
vertical affair, richly punctu-
ated with golden-browns;
Edward Hill, judging by his
two bluish mosaic-dotted com-
positions, “City 1” and “City
2,” belongs in the same com-
pany ; and Jean Appleton, in
“Tide,” has strange, mirage-
like figures on a sloping,
undefinable background.
In “Ancestors” and “Spring
in Bush” Maximilian Feuer-
ring is most alarmingly
abstract: “Ancestors” is a
galaxy of scintillating dabs,
and “Spring in Bush” looks as
if it could be an explosion in
a paint-factory.
By cool contrast, Arthur
Murch has three of his beach-
; the suppleness and
shining flesh-color of the
figures in “Rock Shelter” and
“Cliff Top” are particularly
striking, and there is an attrac-
tive broken sky-pattern in
“Avalon Headland.”
George F. Lawrence’s
“Lavender Bay” has beetle-
shaped boats bobbing nicely in
agitated water; Douglas
Dundas’s “Pompeian Red,
Sofala” is an essay in Dutch
simplicity of subject-matter—
a chair, a fireplace, a crockery-
cabinet ; and there is a pleas-
ant stretch of lake in the large
“Gerringong Pastures” of
Lloyd Rees.
In watercolors, Elaine Hax-
ton has two charming birds
in a Chinese manner and
Kenneth Mac Queen a disk of
hot sun ' effective on a dark-
blue lagoon.
On the way to the door you
pass an immense thing called
“Promised Land,” by John
Coburn. It would be startling
indeed if the place Moses didn’t
quite reach was, after all, a
black-flecked orange shape
rising, or falling, into a sinister
black oval.
♦> ❖ ❖
Fellowship Exhibition
The catalogue of the annual
exhibition of the Fellowship
of Australian Artists at the
Athenaeum Gallery, Melbourne,
carries the inscription: “Vale
Albert: it is with extreme
regret that we record the pass-
ing of a great Australian
artist in our esteemed late
member ALBERT NAMAT-
JIRA.”
Unfortunately though,
Namatjira makes no pictorial
appearance. There is a reason-
able explanation for this, no
doubt—it is reported that the
painter of the Never Never
didn’t leave a single picture,
though he had painted
hundreds.
Another notable omission is
William Dargie, but possibly he
is too busy painting crowned
heads to think about the
Fellowship of Australian
Artists Other omissions are
Rex Battarbee (Namatjira s
teacher) and Howard Ashton.
In fact, the exhibition is more
remarkable for its omissions
than its inclusions. No fewer
than 14 of the original fellow-
ship members are conspicu-
ously absent.
Can this be because the
fellowship has failed in its
objective? It was the original
intention of its founders to
build a bulwark or fortress
against the rising tide of mod-
ernism. It doesn’t seem to have
had any better luck than King
Canute had on a former historic
occasion The tide of modem,
° cca ? lon -. Ane u J e 01 m ° dern
sm has nsen high enough even
0 sweep into that haven of
tradition the National Gallery
Melbourne,
Whether this indicates that
that great institution has seen


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO DAVID WILLIAM HADLEY late of
Clarendon. —TAKE NOTICE that
LEONE HADLEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2332 of 1959 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
and is. asking- for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-
1958 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 16th day of November
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydnev, New South Wales.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EVA JESSIE MAKEPEACE late of
•26 Nicholson Street Balmain. —TAKE
NOTICE that FRANK JAMES MAKE-
PEACE has filed petition for Divorce
No. 2258 of 1959 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 11th
November 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from WM.
PARKER SON & CO., Solicitors, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
the light or is merely follow-
ing a fashion there is no need
to discuss here. Judging by
the current exhibition the new
art hasn’t penetrated into the
fellowship. All are, or try to
be, representationalists of the
old school; and some are more
successful than others.
Ernest Buckmaster has one
of his huge landscapes, “March
Morning, Eildon”; Graham
Moore a nice sketch of a misty
Thames near Windsor ; Rollo
Thomson some tight camellias ;
Allan T. Bernaldo a Victorian
seascape with waves as solid
as the rock-face; and C.
Dudley Wood an Ayers Rock
rising starkly out of a red-
meat desert against a sky of
yellow sawdust.
M. G. S.
+:« ♦♦♦ ♦>
Albury Art Competition
South African High Com-
missioner A. Hamilton is to
open the Albury (N.S.W.) Art
Society’s prize exhibition at the
Civic Theatre on OctoberH4.
Prize-money for the exhibi-
tion totals £282. Major awards
are the City Council’s £lOO for
the best oil-painting ; £4O for
the “public choice” in oils;
the council’s £5O special
centenary-year award for the
best landscape in oils, and the
Albury Commercial Club’s
50gns. for the best water-
color.
Entries close on September
25 with the secretary, Mrs.
Maxine Wood, 728 Peel Street,
Albury, from whom schedules
may be obtained.
Films
“Room at the Top”
One of the finest British
films in years, and one of the
very rare occasions when a
good novel has been improved
by adaptation. The main
story-line is all there: Joe
Lampton coming raw-edged
from the little Yorkshire town
to the big one, determined to
escape his drab background
and find wealth and glamor
among the top people; his
calculated courtship, tinged
with class-resentment, of the
local millionaire’s daughter;
his casual affair with a mar-
ried Frenchwoman of a cer-
tain age ; and the wounding
irony when, just as this affair
develops into a love that would
make him more of a man, he
is forced to destroy it and
marry the girl and fortune he
wanted at first but only half-
wants now.
Joe emerges roundly as a
child of his class and time, his
enormous vitality stultified by
misdirected ambition; and
the small changes scripwriter
Neil Paterson has made to
the novel serve only to clarify
his motives and draw sym-
pathy around him.
Director Jack Clayton has
skilfully threaded the story
through settings of almost
overwhelming actuality. The
gritty industrial town, the
glistening walls and streets, the
coldly echoing borough-
council building, the warm
and smoky pubs, the faded
digs and flats and the panelled
spaciousness of the world Joe
wants, all throb with life ; and
the sense of actuality is com-
pleted by acting of a fidelity
rarely found outside the best
films from France and Italy.
Laurence Harvey, losing his
customary elegance in off-the-
peg suits, crew-cut and York-
shire accent, develops a
remarkably convincing Joe.
Simone Signoret, her beauty
disturbed and. disturbing with
the creases and pouches of
middle-age, wonderfully sug-
gests the tragedy of the
Frenchwoman. Heather Sears,
as the millionaire’s daughter,
is all juicy youth and fresh-
ness. And Donald Wolfit is
every inch of her case-
hardened father.
At Sydney State.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Home Before Dark”
This film attempts to deal
with the age-old problem of
the husband, once the lover,
becoming the loved, and the
wife, once the loved, becoming
the lover. Unable to make
him feel positively, she
develops hallucinations which
land her in a mental-asylum,
where the doctors, knowing
nothing about her history, tor-
ture her with shock-treatment.
Allegedly cured, she is sent
back to her husband, a Ph.D.
singularly lacking in the philo-
sophic quality of doubting his
own feelings. He doesn’t even
know that he is in love with
another woman until his wife,
in a fit of jealousy, tells him.
He still thinks she has hallu-
cinated her rival and imagines
that if they go away on a
holiday together she will be
cured of her obsession.
They share a room in a
hotel, but she gets worse
instead of better. He can’t
feel what he thinks he ought
to feel, and feels guilty
because he can’t —so he is as
much in the dark as she is
and actually just as much in
need of treatment.
The queerest thing about
this story is the solution. She
offers to give him a divorce
and goes off with another
young man who wants her to
take the neurosis she hasn’t
got to a famous psychiatrist
in New York. The advice the
psychiatrist gave her is left to
the audience’s imagination ; it
was probably to take "another
dose of shock-treatment.
Jean Simmons is outstand-
ing as the jealous wife, and
Dan O’Herlihy is good as the
philosopher who wouldn’t
notice if an elephant walked
across his dinner-table.
At Melbourne Regent.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Devil’s General”
This German film, with
dubbed-in English voices, gives
an absorbing account of a
Luftwaffe general, a non-party
man, whose increasing dis-
illusionment about the progress
of the war leads him into
dangerously forthright criticism
of the Reich, and to eventual
destruction at the hands of the
S.S. he openly despised.
Much is made of the
jealousies and intrigue between
the regular officers and Hitler’s
private corps under Himmler
which led to muddled ineffi-
ciency in aircraft-production
and design; and there are
frank glances at the methods
of the political police ; but the
spotlight seldom shifts from the
general’s personal struggle
against his S.S. enemies.
Curt Jurgens strongly out-
lines the central character’s
dignified efforts to find a way
out of the maze of hatreds and
traps.
At Sydney Victory.
\
“The Man Who Under-
stood Women”
This improbable fellow is
none other than Henry Fonda,
and he sets about establishing
his claim to the title by raising
an actress from obscurity to
fame in films, marriage being
his reward. He then spends so
much time in furthering her
career that he neglects her to
the point where she helps her-
self to a presentable young
Frenchman.
The Frenchman, having
sampled the lady’s charms,
finds she is less important than
his Army career and dices her,
whereupon erring wife and
erring husband go into a de-
layed clinch, following a
melodramatic denouement in
which a misunderstanding
about a hired killer is pro-
minent.
Fair-enough entertainment,
with Leslie Caron exerting her
own special brand of elfin
charm as the wife, and a hand-
some newcomer, Cesare Dan-
ova, as the suave Latin lover.
Fonda moves through the
lushly-mounted piece with
aplomb, though giving the im-
pression that he is not quite
convinced of its genuineness.
At Sydney Century.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1165 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock lExchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax’' Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BWIT7I—BW 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
/'YN November 1 this year the Com-
mercial Banking Co. of Sydney, Ltd.,
will commemorate the opening of its
first office in Bridge Street, Sydney, 125
years ago. Population of Sydney Town
was then 16,232.
Today Sydney has 2,016,620 in-
habitants, and the C. 8.5., with a paid
capital of £7,200,000, has two fully-
owned subsidiaries, the C.B.C. Savings
Bank, Ltd., and Commercial Nominees
Pty., Ltd., and operates 449 branches
and agencies throughout the Common-
wealth, being strongest in N.S.W. and
Victoria.
In 1958 the C.B.S. was instrumental
in founding an h.-p. co., the Commercial
and General Acceptance, Ltd. (C.A.G.A.),
in which it holds a 40 p.c. share-interest,
and in September, 1958, the bank entered
into unit-trust agency arrangements
throughout Australia with the Australian
Fixed Trust group.
The future operations of private
trading-banks will be influenced by the
new banking legislation passed by the
Federal Parliament, which provides for
a new method of credit-control through
statutory reserve-deposits, for the separa-
tion of the central bank from the Com-
monwealth Trading Bank, and sets-up
the new (and controversial) Common-
wealth Development Bank.
As for the recent past, Aus-
tralia’s holding of gold and over-
seas currencies has been maintained at
a satisfactory level over the past three'
years, with material assistance of capital
from abroad. This has been an im-
portant factor in offsetting the decline
in wool prices.
Usually, heavy demands are made on
the banking system during April, May
and June, but this year the borrowings
W’ere less -than in 1958, and liquidity
higher. Consequently, earnings by banks
from interest on advances were some-
what lower. Total advances and dis-
counts of private trading-banks in June,
1959, were £916.3 million {plus £24.3
million funds lodged with authorised
short-term money-market dealers), as
compared to £945.6 million in June last
year.
On the other hand, depositors’ balances
with savings - banks, as at the end of
June, had increased by £94.5 million to
£1391.3 million over the year. Of this
total, £203 million was deposited with
private savings-banks (up £47.9 million
since 1958).
The private - banks’ investments in
h.-p. companies continued to give hand-
some returns, being a welcome supple-
ment to revenues from the more
traditional (but more restricted) forms
of banking business.
The associated co., Commercial and
General Acceptance, has declared its first
6 p.c. dividend, amounting to £31,800
on the C.B.S. 40 p.c. holding.
Last year was a good one for C.B.S.
The consolidated profit rose by £65,937
to £816,130, equivalent to a rate of 11.3
p.c. on paid-up capital, and amply
covering the steady 9 p.c. on the increased
capital (absorbing £648,000, up £108,000),
and the annual £75,000 write-off from
bank premises:
Written- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends . off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1951.. 451,699 8 „ ~379,121 25,000 4,808,660
1952.. 443,843 8 ~ „ 379,121 25,000 4,848,382
1953.. 470,025 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,914,886
Surplus sale shares, £43,303 .. 4,958,189
1954.. 528,777 8 p.c. = 379,121 25,000 5,082,845
1955.. 627,296 8i „ „ 508,314 25,000 5,176,827
Inner res'erves revealed, £1,500,000 .. 6,676,827
1956.. 648,264 9 p.c. = 540,000 50,000 6,735,091
Consolidated Accounts.
1957.. 666,840 9 p.c. = 540,000 75,000 6,786,931
1958.. 750.193 9 „ „ 540,000 75,000 6,922,124
1959.. 816,130 9 „ „ 648,000 75,000 7,015,254
The £816,130 combined profit was
made-up of £704,009 parent net earnings
(up £23,808, apart from divs. from the
C.B.C. Savings Bank), and of £112,121
(up £42,129) brought-in by the savings-
bank operations.
The subsidiary C.B.S. Savings Bank
continued to make good progress, and
at June 30, 1959, had 146,000 depositors’
accounts (up 38,000). Depositors’
balances, bills payable and other
liabilities increased during the year by
£9,466,000 to £35,080,000.
Paid-up capital of the C.B.S. now 7
stands at £7,200,000, following the com-
pletion of the issue of 96,000 £25 shares,
paid to £l2 10s., at par in March
1958:
OONSOLI-
1 —*——Parent Only dated.
1958. 1959. 1959.
Paid capital £7,130,112 £7,200,000 £7,200,000
Reserves .. 6,820,475 6,851,484 7,015,254
Owing to sub-
sidiary .. 4,510,429 3,916,370
Notes . . 13.350 13,345 13,345
Deposits* . . 185,836,447 186,983,796 222,063,791
Due other
banks . . 951,952 1,306,851 1,306,851
Final div. 270,000 324,000 324,000
£205,532,765 £206,595,546 £237,923,241
Liquids . . 53,630,216 62,608,891 89,501,403
Special a/c 29,800,000 25,900,000 25,900,000
Advances . . 114,190,754 109,302,403 114,47.3,735
Premises, etc. 3,955,523 4,629,249 4,629,249
Shares sub-
sidiary . . 1,002,000 1,002,000
Shares other »
cos. . . 330,000 1,140,000 1,140,000
Other assets 2,624,272 2,013,303 2,278,854
£205,532,*5 £206,595,846 £237,923,241
* Includes provision for contingencies.
The parent balance-sheet shows that
deposits, bills payable and other liabilities
rose by £1,147,000 to £186,984,000.
On the assets side there appears a
new item, £2,400,000 invested with
accredited dealers in the short-term
money - market. The Commonwealth
Bank made two releases from the special
account during the last term, and the
balance at June 30 was £25,900,000
(down £3,900,000). Treasury-bill holdings
amounted to £3,000,000 (down
£1,500,000). Australian Government
securities held rose by £2,936,000 to
£22,640,000.
Advances, etc., decreased by £4,888,000
to £109,302,000. However, in July,
August and September, 1958, the bank
experienced a heavy demand for seasonal
and other finance, and advances had
at one stage reached a record: £117.6
million. The seasonal decline then fol-
lowed. Over the last five years the bank’s
share of total advances of the major
banks increased from 10.6 p.c. in June,
1954, to 11.9 p.c. in June, 1959.
The book-value of bank premises, etc.,
increased by £674,000 to £4,629,000 after
the annual write-off of £75,000. There
is little doubt that the bank’s fixed assets
are conservatively valued.
The consolidated balance-sheet dis-
closes that the aggregate deposits, etc.,
increased by £10,614,000 to £222,064,000.
Advances, etc., were down £2,622,000 at
£114,474,000.
On the consolidated figures, the
liquidity ratio (disregarding the
£25,900,000 special account) works-out at
40 p.c., and the ratio of advances to
deposits at 51.5 p.c.
On the whole it seems that the true
position of C.B.S. is stronger than is
shown by the published accounts, and
that there is hope for the shareholders
eventually reaping greater benefits than
the annual, relatively modest, 9 p.c.
div. distribution.
Net tangible backing is £24 13s. 7d.
a share on conservative book figures.
The market-value of C.B.S. shares is
£24 ss. The shares have a face-value
of £25, called-up to £l2 10s. The out-
standing £l2 10s. is liable to be called
up only in the highly unlikely event of
liquidation. The yield, on the basis of
the 9 p.c. div., is 4.6 p.c.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd.
and stock-and-station
agents are the first to reap the
benefits of a fattened wool-cheque, and,
by the same loken, the first to feel the
pinch when wool prices slump.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd., established in
Geelong (Vic.) in 1857, handles a large
proportion of high-class wools, selling
about 9 p.c. of the total Victorian wool-
clip. In addition to the head-office at
Geelong, there are 38 branches and 31


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdaje” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. Li. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-3-3
406 COELINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralpkking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
special agencies located throughout Vic-
toria and the southern Riverina.
The fall in wool prices during the
early part of the co.’s financial year (to
June 30, 1959), was responsible for last
year’s further decline in profits.
The steady, unspectacular, rallying of
wool prices last April, and the promising
note on which the sales opened on
August 24, came much too late to affect
1958- 59 earnings.
A very dry pinch in the autumn of
1958 had an adverse effect on the Vic-
torian wool-clip generally, but the
growth of pastures during winter and
spring was particularly good. A strong
and sustained demand for both fat- and
store-cattle during the first six months
of 1959 had materially helped to arrest
the fall in profits.
The average price for the Australian
clip of 4,790,282 bales was 48.68 d., a
drop of 13.92 d. a lb., as compared with
the previous season. The number of
bales sold increased by 415,588.
The co. sold a total of 115,819 bales,
including a carry-forward of 1637 bales
from the preceding season. This was a
decrease of 3784 bales. There was a
carryover of 537 bales to the next season.
Sales of sheep and cattle exceeded
the 1957-58 figures, and were a record.
Land sales were “particularly good,” and
exceeded last year’s satisfactory figures.
Earnings from trading operations, after
allowing for doubtful debts and in-
cluding £1562 income from investments,
were £827,428 (down £35,248):
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Written back to investments, £lOOO 336,062
1953 .. 100,490 15 p.c. = 58,500 41,990 378,052
Profit sale assets, etc., £10,152 .. 388,204
Tax overprovision, £22,256 .. .. 410,460
To staff fund, etc., £19,433 .. .. 391,027
W/off premises, £66,000 .. .. 325,027
1954 .. 132,617 20 p.c. = 78,000 54,617 379.644
Profit sale assets, etc., £7593 .. 387,237
Tax overprovided, £420 .. .. 357,657
Unexplained addition, £415 .. .. 388,072
1955 . . 147,953 171p.c.= 87,750 60,203 448,275
Profit sale assets, £4409 .. .. 452,684
Depreciation bonds, £1406 .. .. 451,278
Staff fund. £2OOO .. .. .. 449,278
Tax overprovided, £lOB2 .. .. 450,360
1956 .. 132,644 16 p.c. = 87,360 45,284 495,644
Profit sale assets, £3610 .. .. 499,254
Tax overprovided, £6OB .. .. 499,862
Written-back investments, £906 .. 500,768
Accrued long-service leave, £14,236.. 486,532
1957 .. 164,733 174p.c.= 95,550 69,183 555,715
Profit sale assets, £9554 .. .. 565,269
Tax overprovided, £8983 .. .. 574,252
Written-back investments, £1219 .. 575,471
1958 .. 118,879 15 p.c. = 81,900 36,979 612,450
Profit sale assets, £9992 .. .. 622,442
Tax overprovided, £756 .. .. 623,198
Profit on bonds, £1562 .. .. 624,760
1959 .. 104,824 15 p.c. = 81,900 22,924 647,684
* Subject to intangibles, £83,428 at 30/6/’59.
Net operating-profit for the year was
£104,824 (down £14,055), equivalent to
19.2 p.c. on average capital, as compared
to 21.7 p.c. in the previous year. The
profit was struck after providing £35,259
for depreciation (up £3976) and a steady
£6OOO contribution to staff funds. Pro-
vision for taxation absorbed £70,500
(down £1500).
In addition to net profits retained after
paying the unchanged 15 p.c., reserves
benefited also by a £9992 profit on
disposal of fixed assets and improve-
ments, £756 overprovision for taxation,
and £1562 capital-profit on “adjustment
of Commonwealth bonds to quoted
market.”
Overdraft was down £9708 to £41,604,
but creditors were up £12,934 at
£117,612:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £546,000 £546,000 £546,000
Reserves .. .. 555,715 612,450 647,684
Overdraft .. .. 51,312 41,604
Creditors, etc. .. 213,081 104,678 117,612
Staff funds .. 59,516 65,243 66,476
Tax provision . . 126,500 72,000 70,500
Final div. .. 68,250 54,600 54,600
£1,569,062 £1,506,283 £1,544,476
Freeholds .. .. 401,722 483,825 554,994
Plant, etc. . . 81,605 81,522 86,492
Stock .. . . 42,410 102,006 59,101
Debtors . . . . 674,047 529,398 609,462
Cash, etc 285,850 226,104 150,999
Goodwill . . . . 83,428 83,428 83,428
£1,569,062 £1,506,283 £1,544,476
Debtors rose by £80,064 to £609,462,
and stocks dropped £42,905 to £59,101,
reflecting the fall in wool prices and
resulting difficulties of primary producers.
Cash, etc., decreased by £75,105 to
£150,999.
However, the net current assets were
comfortable at £552,198, with a current
ratio of 2.6 to 1.
In accordance with the new provisions
of the Victorian Companies Act, the
co. last year disclosed for the first time
a provision for contingencies of £75,470,
deducted from trade debtors before
arriving at the final balance-sheet figure.
Freeholds increased by £71,169 to
£554,994. The book-value of plant at
£86,492 reflects the substantial deprecia-
tion provisions written-off.
At this stage, the outlook for the
current year is encouraging. The 1959-60
wool-season opening was the most satis-
factory for §ome time, with prices 10 to
15 p.c. higher than last season’s closing
rates, and keen competition among
buyers.
Wool-stocks in most countries are
lower than a year ago. Many of the
medium and smaller Japanese mills had
almost completely used-up their stocks
and their representatives are buying
strongly at the sales.
Substantial recovery in the world wool-
consumption noticeable in the second
quarter of 1959 is another encouraging
factor.
If the recovery in wool-demand con-
tinues, the nation’s wool-cheque should
be much better than last year, with
consequent benefits spreading all round.
This leads one to expect a better per-
formance by Dennys, Lascelles, and other
woolbrokers in the current term, with the
possibility of a return to the 174 p.c. div.-
rate, cut down to the present 15 p.c. in
1958.
In Melbourne the 20s. ords. are
fetching 545., yielding 5.5 p.c. on the
basis of the 15 p.c. div.
The net tangible assets backing is just
under £2 2s. sd. per £1 stock-unit.
Wilke and Co., Ltd.
'T'he Wilke firm of Melbourne printers
was founded before the turn of the
century, but didn’t become a public
company until 1948, when 40,000 20s.
ord. shares were issued to the public at
a premium of 16s. each. Three-quarters
of paid-up capital remained in the hands
of the original proprietors.
Rapid development ensued. In 1949
• there was an issue of 50,000 5 p.c. 20s.
prefs. This was followed in 1950 by
10,000 ords. at a 16s. premium to the
big Hazell, Watson and Viney, Ltd., of
London. In return a valuable technical
connection was achieved.
In 1951 came the one-for-one bonus-
issue of 130,000 ords., followed by a
one-for-four post- bonus par issue of
65,000 ords.
A further 50,000 20s. prefs. (then
carrying 6| p.c.) was issued to the M.L.C.
in 1955. These shares were redeemable
oyer the 20 years 1960-80. In the same
year another 113,850 ords. were issued
to ordinary shareholders in the ratio of
35-for-100.
In 1954 the co. issued £130,000 of 20s.
6 p.c. registered unsecured notes at par,
carrying an option to subscribe at par
for 130,000 ords. of 20s. each, at con-
version-date, May 15, 1959.
However, in May, 1959, Wilke put a
proposal to option-holders to take-up
an issue of 8 p.c.-10 p.c. registered
unsecured 20s. notes at par, maturing
June 30, 1964. Each note carries a
separate option to take-up ordinary
shares at par on June 30, 1964. The
options rank for any cash or bonus
issues made during the currency of the
notes. Acceptances closed on June 15,
1959.
In the result, 12,296 20s. ords. were
issued, bringing paid capital at June 30,
1959, to £451,146, and 107,930 8 p.c.-
10 p.c. registered unsecured 20s. notes
were issued at par, maturing June 30,
1964.
Wilke’s business interests include two
very valuable contracts. The co. prints
the Australasian edition of the “Readers’
Digest” (noted for its wide, popular
appeal and vigorous, persistent selling
techniques). The other, more prosaic,
but perhaps even more profitable, source
of earnings is printing the Melbourne
Telephone Directory for the P.M.G.
Leaning on these two supports, the
co. has been able to get along happily
in the highly competitive printing
business. It is now printing “Vogue”
(Australia).
Last year’s turnover and profits were


ewer fAOEouate»
£/&ttdtio£
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURAN|fifI
DIRECTORS: Iric, .in Queensland
E. W. Robinson (C’man)
Col. R. S. Goward, C.B.E.
P. H. Phillips
T. Keith Smith
C. W. Rothe
S. J. Gandon
General Manager:
895
W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc. f
F.F.A.
General Secretary:
George Leslie, F.C.1.5.,
A.A.S.A.
HUNTER AND BLIGH
STREETS
SYDNEY
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER t SONS LTD,
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WALKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
\ JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH /
\ WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK, li
k\ SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY. /J
jw.ieo.i2
an improvement on the
previous year: —
t —* Dividends Re-
Jne. Prft. Pref. , Ord. serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £•
’54..59,054 2500 8 p.c. = 26,000 159,660
Profit sale assets, £1487 . . 161,147
Tax overprovided, £11,780.. 172,927
Prelim, exp. w/off, £3095. . 169,832
A Pref. 14 Pref. Ord.
5 p.c. 64 p.c. 8 p.c.
£ ” £ £
’55.-50,349 2500 686 26,758 190,237
Profit sale assets, £592 .. 190,829
To staff fund, £2OOO . . 188,829
’56..50,026 2500 3250 35,108 197,997
Net capital loss on plant
scrapped or sold, £4533.. 193,464
Provision for long-service
leave, £BBB4 .. .. 184,580
Tax overprovided, £3563 .. 188,143
’67..55,272 2500 3250 35,108 202,557
Net capital profit, £679 .. 203,236
Tax overprovided, £11,767.. 215,003
Long-service prov., £6244 .. 208,759
’5B-52,264 2500 3250 35,108 220,165
Net capital loss, £2938 . . 217,227
Tax overprovided, £5425 .. 222,652
’59-64,596 2500 3250 35,108 246,390
The disclosed trading profit
before tax for the year ended
June 30, 1959, was £25,832
higher at £143,596. The result
was obtained after charging
£103,940 (up £24,559) for de-
preciation. Transfer to long-
service leave provision
amounted to £2750, and
interest charges to £7BOO.
The provision for income-
tax took-up £79,000 (up
£13,500). This is well in excess
of the ruling tax-rates on the
disclosed profit. The co. has
been consistently overprovid-
ing tax in the past, giving
foundation to pleasant conjec-
ture about undisclosed reserves.
The visible net profit after tax
is £64,596 (up £12,332), leav-
ing £58,846 after the unchanged
pref.-divs. charge of £5750.
This is equivalent to an
earning-rate of 13 p.c. on the
average ordinary capital
employed during the year.
Ordinary div.-rate is steady at
8 p.c., and the cheque absorbs
£35,108.
Reserves received £23,738
and also benefited by £5425
tax - overprovision written-
back. There was a loss of
£2938 on the sale and scrapping
of fixed assets.
Reserves totalled £246,390
(up £26,225) at balance-date, on
a paid capital of £451,146 in
20s. ords., and £50,000 each in
5 p.c. and 6j p.c. prefs.:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 438,850 451,146
Reserves .. 220,165 246,390
Notes .. .. 130,000 173,090
Overdraft, etc... 145,161 35,187
Creditors .. 56,021 74,453
Long-service pro-
vision .. 16,382 17,700
Tax provision .. 65,500 79,000
Dividends .. 22,623 22,623
£1,194,702 £1,199,589
Freehold .. 199,900 204,774
Plant .. .. 428,585 405,393
Stock .. .. 315,721 393,299
Debtors... .. 249,503 179,830
Cash, etc. .. 993 16,293
£1,194,702 £1,199,589
Following the conversion and
issue of notes in May and June,
1959, the total long-term
borrowings amount to
£173,090. This is made-up of
£65,160 in 6 p.c., and £107,930
in new 8 p.c.-10 p.c., registered
unsecured notes.
There is a large drop in bank
overdraft, which is £109,974
down at £35,187. Creditors
increased by £18,432 to
£74,453. Debtors at £179,830
showed a decline of £69,673,
but stock was up £77,578 at
£393,299. The co. has
been experiencing considerable
fluctuations in paper-stock
values over the past three years.
Cash, etc., was £15,300 higher
at £16,293.
The excess of current assets
over current liabilities was
£360,459, and the current ratio
is 2.6 to 1.
Freeholds were £4874 higher
at £204,774, but the book-value
of plant was £23,192 lower at
£405,393, showing the effect of
heavy depreciation write-offs.
Net tangible assets backing
is £7 19s. 6d. for the prefs.,
and a shade under 30s. lOd. for
the ords.
At the last sale in Melbourne
275. 9d. was paid for the 20s.
ords., making the yield 5.8 p.c.
on the basis of the steady 8 p.c.
div.
Meggitt, Ltd.
A ustralia uses about 20,000
tons (4f-million gallons)
of linseed-oil annually. Before
World War II requirements
were satisfied in the main from
the crushing of imported seed.
Since the war, however, most
of the major exporting-
countries have been loth to
sell seed in order that support
be given their own crushing
industries and to enable reten-
tion of the linseed-cake (the
solid mass remaining when
the oil is expressed from the
linseed) for domestic purposes.
In recent years, with
encouragement from the
Federal Government, the Lin-
seed Crushers’ Association and
the generally low prices
obtaining for wheat, local
growers have succeeded in pro-
viding for an increasing pro-
portion of home demand.
Similar climatic and soil con-
ditions are required for the
production of both linseed and
wheat, so that economic
investment in the oil-bearing
flax is necessarily dependent
upon the relative prices of the
two crops. The Linseed
Crushers’ Association (Meg-
gitt, Ltd., is one of the four
firms represented) has offered
a fixed price of £A7O a ton
(Continued on page 32)


Royal Melbourne Prepares —
THROUGH GIPPSLAND
Calfetaria at J. Moore and Co.’s No. 7 Farm, Tooloonook,
Yarram.
At L. H. and A. H. Castle's Large White pig-stud,
Clarendon, Bena.
By ROLLO GILLESPIE
The pre-Show tour organised
by the R.A.S. of Victoria
and the Shell Co. of Australia
and Shell Chemical (Aust.)
differed from others some of
us have attended. It was more
closely concerned with civic
authorities in the district we
visited than any previous tour
in other States. This was
important, because the district
was Gippsland, where thriving
towns depend on agriculture
for their prosperity and are,
at the same time, working to
establish secondary industries
to consolidate the intensity of
their production.
The moment we boarded
the coach at Ansett's Swanston-
street terminal, and before we
had even left the city of Mel-
bourne, we were in Gippsland.
Tour-leader for the R.A.S. was
W."- C. Greaves —later we got
to know him, politely, as
“Councillor Bill” and, famili-
arly, as “Daddy”—who’s just
completed 34 years as coun-
cillor of Cranbourne Shire and
handed-over to his son Mac
(fourth generation on that
shire-council).
His assistant, Leighton
Richardson, is another land-
owner in the province, with
the happy knack of bumping
into war-time comrades and
introducing them all round,
which made for informality
and helped journalists to get
to know people quicker.
The Shell people started
sponsoring these tours in Vic-
toria in 1957. Since they
made this first happy hit, other
States have followed suit —
N.S.W. ran tours in 1958 and
1959, and this year South Aus.
and Western Australia have
joined-in.
On first thoughts, you
might not believe that oil,
earth and printer’s-ink would
mix; but when the brew is
blended in its right propor-
tion and shaken together by
competent leaders the result
can be impressive.
Bill Greaves was helped by
K. R. (Ken) Sands, of Shell,
and Peter McGillivray, of Shell
Chemical, as well as by Bob
McMurchie, of the Australian
Wool Bureau —Bob took a
large part in pioneering the
idea of these tours. Peter
McGillivray, by the way, is the
son of George McGillivray,
for 15 years head of the Dairy
Division in the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture and at
present a member of the
committee-of-inquiry into the
dairy-industry, which is being
held in Melbourne.
Five ladies, one representa-
tive from the Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture—Colin
Webb —and 18 press, radio,
TV and newsreel men made-
up the main body of the party.
We were joined, at intervals,
by people from the local
press—most notable of whom,,
perhaps, was Bonnie Mercer,
who hails from Canada, where
she represented her native
land in the Empire Games at
Vancouver, and who’s now
working on the “Peninsula
Post.” A further international
flavor was added by Frank
Few, American-born TV-man
from Channel 2, whose disap-
pointment about our non-
appearance on the evening-
programmes was alleviated by
Viola Meeks with Welsh mountain-ponies at Kent
Park, Lower Ferntree Gully.


H.RJL Princess Alexandra
Will Officially Open
THE 1959 ROYAL MELBOURNE SHOW
At 2.30 p.m. on Friday, September 18
Be sure that you see the
0 Grand Parades of Prize-winning Livestock: Santa
Gertrudis will be shown for the first time.
0 Farm Machinery Exhibition: Biggest ever staged in
the Southern Hemisphere.
• Dairy Industry Display: Latest machinery and
techniques —Free film shows —Dairy Foods Centre.
0 Sheep Shearing Championships: Individual teams
and Young Farmer contests.
0 Wood Chopping, Tree Felling and Shovelling:
Spectacular new competitions.
0 Equestrian and Equestrienne Events: Dressage,
Jumping, Novelty and the famous Garry owen
contest.
0 Wool Carnival: Prize fleeces —mannequin parades
on new revolving stage.
Don’t miss these attractions:
3,615 Dog Entries : : 3,407 Home Crafts Exhibits : :
Maypole Dance with Tractors : : Show Girl
Coronation : : Musical Rides by Mounted Police
: : Sheep Dog Trials : : Obedience Dog Club
Demonstrations : : Massed Bands : : 1,000
Marching Girls : : . Grand Fireworks Display.
COME TO THE SHOW—SEPTEMBER 17
TO SEPTEMBER 26
Members Tickets Available.
Family Tickets 10/-
a long serial-story he used
to recount to us about wagon-
trains wending their way
towards the distant blue hills
of his native Texas. Only on
the last evening—after our
final disappointment about not
appearing on the screen —did
we reach the end of this
memorable tale.
Ponies and Beef-cattle
We set-off along the Princes
Highway and made our first
visit at Mrs. Creswick's Welsh
mountain-pony stud, Kent
Park, Lower Ferntree Gully.
Here we were addressed by
Gilbert Chandler, Victorian
Minister for Agriculture. Alec
Creswick and his wife (nee
Hordern) have made Kent
Park their home for the last
10 years. The property con-
sists of about 100 acres of
improved pastures. Here Mrs.
Creswick runs her Nattai Stud
of about 30 Welsh mountain-
ponies as a hobby.
The ponies were brought to
Australia in 1912 by her father
and her present ponies are
descended from the original
strain of Grey Light (imported,
former champion of Great
Britain and Europe), Cream
of Eppynt and 10 mares.
These ponies are hardy and
surefooted, make excellent
children’s mounts and are as
good in saddle as in harness.
In Wales the shepherds use
them on the mountains and
they can be successfully
crossed with Arabs and
thoroughbreds.
Nattai Stud ponies have been
successful in Royal Shows in
the various States and have
won their share of champion-
ships. This year Nattai has
entered Lady Sunlight in both
saddle and led classes, and
Flower and Helgwen in the led
class at the Royal Melbourne.
The thoroughbred mare True
Course good winner of
£27,000 in stake-money • is
also at Kent Park. Alec
Creswick, who was away with
the E.F.A. equestrian training-
squad at Bowral (N.S.W.)
when we visited Kent Park,
is ringmaster at the Royal.
We moved on to Rupert
Steele's Aberdeen Angus stud
at Rossmoyne Park, Dande-
nong, and were met by George
Andrews, first Mayor of
Dandenong since it was
declared a city earlier this
year. Steele, who has been
breeding for only six years,
was successful in 1958, when
each of his six exhibits at the
Melbourne Show, won prizes,
including one first and two
seconds. He believes in foster-
ing his calves beforehand,
because, he says, this is the
easiest and cheapest way of
getting them into show-
condition.
The stud is restricted to 20
breeders, of which the most
famous is Gladiole of Ford-
house, bred in Scotland by
William Reid. Senior sire is
Rossmoyne Kilt, by Edzell
Gay Gordon. The Rossmoyne
team at this year’s Royal Mel-
bourne will be eight bulls and
one cow, most of them by
Gwedof of Addington (imp.).
Kilt was a prize-winner at last
year’s Show.
After we had looked-over
the cattle, Keith Miller gave
us a butcher’s-eye view of the
best cuts as far as beef goes.
We then watched a demonstra-
tion of parading show-beasts
and another of weighing.
Berwick A. and H. Society
Greeted on our arrival at
Berwick by Cecil Purton, the
president, and by his commit-
tee, we were introduced to
Syd Thewlis, president of
Berwick Shire, and addressed
by L. S. Reid, the local M.L.A.
The Berwick Society, formerly
known as the Mornington
Farmers’ Society, is the only
surviving direct descendant of
the Port Phillip Farmers’
Society, which was founded
in 1848. Now in its 111th year,
it is the oldest society in
Victoria.
In 1958 the Berwick Society
gained the award for champion
dairyfarm of the State —
Colonel C. M. Thomas won
this—and also for champion
dairy-cow—J. R. Canobie’s
Ayrshire, Roland Park Pearl
3rd. The Young Farmer
movement has proved very
popular among the younger
people, and we met Jeff Foster,
local president, who had
something to tell us about
their activities.
Berwick is also famous for
its show - riders; Rupert
Richardson, one of the most
successful riders of recent
years, was born and still lives
Jn the district, while in the
1956 Olympic Equestrian
Team, which consisted of six
members from Australia, three
—including the captain—came
from the neighborhood. This
skill is now being fostered by
the Oakwood riding-school, a
mile from Narre Warren,
which was established in 1958
by parents and others inter-
ested in teaching children to
ride.
Controlled by a committee-
of-management and incorpor-
ated as a company on a non-
profitmaking basis, this school
has 50 horses and ponies on
an 80-acre property, as well
as about 20 boarding horses,
some of which are being pre-
pared for the forthcoming
Show. We saw a demonstra-
tion by Anton Nissen, resident-
instructor at the school,
Heather McCallum, manager-
ess, and a number of pupils.
The district, with an aver-
age rainfall of 36in., is mainly
undulating country, much of
it volcanic, and suitable for
the development of high-class
stock. For over a century it
has been renowned for its
studs of cattle, sheep, pigs and
horses. As a fat-lamb-raising
area, Berwick created an Aus-
tralasian record in the com-
petition held at Smithfield
(London), as well as in Aus-
tralian shows and competi-
tions. We saw some specimens
of the stock produced in the
neighborhood—Guernsey, Jer-
sey, Friesian and Ayrshire
cattle and Cheviot, Romney
Marsh and Ryeland sheep.
Most of the stock we saw is
to be exhibited at the forth-
coming Show.
Berwick looks to the future,
with its prosperity firmly
rooted in the past. Descend-
ants of the original pioneers
carry-on the tradition created
by their forebears. One
example of this is provided by
E. C. Henry, whose family
came to the neighborhood in
1841 and who was riding
horses here at • the age of 12
(60 years ago, he admits, now);
he’s past-president and life-
member of the society.
Another example, at the other
(Continued on page 48)


36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
for clean seed of 40 p.c. oil-
content.
The 1958 crop, mostly
grown in Queensland, on the
Darling Downs, produced
11,000 tons of seed, about a
fifth of Australia’s require-
ments ; the remainder was
imported in the form of crude
linseed-oil, chiefly from India,
Argentina and Uruguay.
Chief consumers of linseed-
oil are the paint-and-varnish
manufacturers, who take
about 70 p.c. of Australian
production. Linoleum-manu-
facture takes about 5 p.c., and
the oil is used also for bind-
ing sand-cores in foundries,
for printing-inks, putty, types
of wall-board and for such
sundry purposes as oiling
cricket - bats. About four-
fifths of the oil used by paint-
manufacturers is linseed; the
remainder is tung-oil, saf-
flower or castor-oil, and in
some degree demand for lin-
seed is influenced by its price-
relationship with these. A
significant factor for linseed-
oil producers has been the
development and increasing
use of rubber- and synthetic-
based paints and floor-cover-
ings. Nevertheless, world
consumption of linseed-oil in
1956 was nearly 10 p.c. above
its 1939 level and it is still the
most important of the “indus-
trial” vegetable-oils. But it
is a comparatively static
industry in Australia because
of its new competitors.
Meggitt, Ltd., is the largest
manufacturer of linseed-oil
and -meal in Australia. In
1957 the co. completed instal-
lation of a modern-type
crushing plant at West Foot-
scray to handle the harvest
from increasing acreages
devoted to linseed-cultivation
in Victoria. During 1958
extensions were made to the
S.A. plant, and excellent
results have been attained
since in the manufacture of
high-grade stock-foods. The
N.S.W. and Queensland plants
have both operated satisfac-
torily, and gallonage of oil-
sales has been maintained.
Despite competition from
synthetics, the continued
growth of industry in general,
and the heightened activity in
the building-industry in par-
ticular, should at least ensure
a fairly steady level of demand
for the co.’s products.
Last month, Meggitt an-
nounced that it would shortly
make a one-for-three bonus-
issue from revaluation of
assets. Meg g i t t’s shares
responded immediately and
jumped 12s. to 745. then
settled at 70s. on the
Sydney ’Change. Directors
generally have become of
necessity increasingly aware
of shareholders’ interests, and
from a defensive point of
view are keen to see shares
selling at healthy premiums.
As a catalyst the takeover-
boom may well speed-up the
trend in accounting away from
traditional conservatism to-
wards full disclosure.
Was takeover pressure
responsible for Meggitt’s latest
move, or would the issue have
been made in any case?
Could it be a warning—“keep-
off”—to possible takeover
merchants?
Whatever the answer, the
fact remains that the co. has
been bonus-ripe now for a
number of years. Land and
buildings, plant and equip-
ment are shown in the
balance - sheet at cost, less
massive depreciation. Free
reserves are considerable, and
true profits in the past have
been well above dividends
distributed. But this is by no
means evident from Meggitt’s
accounts. Last term the co.’s
visible profit was £68,593
(down £4674) after tax
(unstated) and depreciation
£48,810 (up £3056):
r - j Dividends- — N
Pref. Re-
May,Profit. 10 p.c. , ——Ords.— A serves.*
£ £ £ £
’54..62,485 4000 12fc 46,148 59,298
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. 49,298
From inner res., £115,748. . 165,046
’55-71,464 4000 15 = 55,378 177,132
From inner res., £150,000. . 327,132
’56-85,111 4000 15 = 55,377 352,866
From inner res., £150,000.. 502,866
’57-75,077 4000 15 - 55,377 518,566
’5B-73,267 4000 15 s= 55,377 532,456
Profit sale assets, £8362 .. 540,818
From inner res., £140,000 680,818
’59-68,593 4000 15 = 55,378 690,033
* After deducting goodwill ( £115,748),
which was written out of the accounts
in 1955.
The disclosed earning-rate on
ord. capital was 17.5 p.c.,
against 18.8 p.c. the year pre-
ceding, 19.3 p.c. in ’57 and
21.9 p.c. in ’56. Of profits
shown, prefs. (£lO,OOO in 10
p.c. first cum. prefs. and
£lO,OOO in second cum. prefs.)
took £4OOO, ords. soaked-up
£55,378 (the ord. div. was
steady at 15 p.c. for the fifth
successive year) and the balance
remaining (£9215) went to
reserves.
The co.’s published state-
ments are not, however, indi-
cative of its true earning-
power. The balance-sheet in
the past has covered-up exten-
sive reserves:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959.
Pref £40,000 £40,000
Ord 369,182 369,182
Reserves.. .. 532,456 690,033
Depreciation res. 487,129 556,073
Overdraft .. 92,636
Sundry creditors* 759,902 497,115
Staff fund . . 39,000 39,000
Final divs. .. 29,688 29,689
£2,257,357 £2,313,728
Land, buildings 338,960 822,684
Plant . . . . 582,076 608,300
Shares .. .. 43,244 67,255
Stocks .. .. 793,670 830,702
Debtors .. ~ 279,272 270,787
Cash, bonds, etc. 220,135 214,000
£2,257,357 £2,313,728
* Includes unspecified provisions.
Profits shy of public scrutiny
are tucked away behind
facades of stocks on hand and
sundry debtors, both of which
items have been reduced by
provisions, the amounts not
being stated. No information
is given in the conglomerate
£497,115 for sundry creditors
and provisions, and the failure
to disclose tax-liability serves
only to obscure the measure of
real profits further.
But there is no doubt as to
the financial strength which
the co. has been accumulat-
ing behind the scenes. Last
year £140,000, which had been
set aside in earlier years to
meet market-fluctuations in
raw materials, was brought to
light as no longer necessary
and transferred to free reserves.
Together with previous disclo-
sures, this brings total with-
drawals from inner sources
since 1955 to £570,748, com-
pared with profits actually
claimed in the same period
only £373,512.
As to the separate items in
the balance-sheet, land and
buildings were lower on book-
values at £322,684 (down
£16,276). During, the year
property was sold and the pro-
ceeds (£8362) were transferred
to reserves. In all, reserves
were higher at the end of the
year by £157,577 at £690,033.
Improvements and additions to
plant raised the book-value of
this asset to £608,300 (up
£26,224) and holdings of shares
and debentures were added to
by £24,011 (£67,225).
To finance the increasing
tonnage of the Australian
linseed harvest, which is
essentially a seasonal crop,
considerable liquid funds are
necessary, even though they are
used for part of the year only.
Thus working - capital was
increased last year to reach
£657,050 (up £192,563) at
balance-date. Minor move-
ments showed-up in debtors
and cash, bonds, etc., and stocks
on hand increased only
to £830,702 (up £37,032). Bank-
accommodation, however, was
used extensively, and the over-
draft at the end of last term
stood at £92,636 (at the end of
the previous term there was no
bank overdraft). Sundry credi-
tors including provisions fell
dramatically to £497,115
(down £262,787), but of the
fall, £140,000, as mentioned
previously, was transferred to
reserves.
Summing-up, there is no
doubt as to Meggitt’s all-round
strength. Real profits should
improve, though increases
admittedly will not be spec-
tacular. Directors confidently
expect to pay 12| p.c. div. on
the bonus-enlarged capital.
The new shares will rank for
div. from June 1, 1959. It is
proposed to convert and sub-
divide share-capital into stock-
units of ss. denomination. The
20s. ords. are at present fetch-
ing 70s. on ’Change. At this
price the theoretical value of
the scrip, ex bonus, is 525. 6d.
Granted the anticipated 12£
p.c. div., yield from current
purchases would be equal to
4.7 p.c. Net tangible cover
for the scrip at balance date
was £54 19s. 3d. first prefs.,
£53 19s. 3d. seconds and
575. sd. the ords.


MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, August 31.
"VIEW Zealand company-
' reports now coming to
hand indicate some deteriora-
tion in retail trading-conditions.
Though export prices have
recovered and overseas reserves
have risen, the aftermath of the
recent setback is still being felt
internally. So are the effects
of increased taxation and the
introduction of Paye.
The public has less money
in its pocket than it had a year
ago, and is rather less inclined
to spend what it has.
A year ago spending was
being stimulated by fear of
shortages, but that’s over now.
Cupboards are well stocked—
and so, in most cases, are shop-
shelves —savings are down and
the tax-drain is being felt more
severely.
Recently Bond’s Hosiery
reported lower sales and profits
for the half-year as a result of
reduced spending-power in the
hands of consumers. Hallen-
stein Bros., a big men’s-wear
firm, with branches in many
towns, reported “some slowing-
down in retail trade over the
last six months.”
Tekau Knitwear said it
expected sales for the half-year
to November 19 to be lower
than last year; and Newton
King, a pastoral company with
headquarters in Taranaki,
attributed a sharp profit-fall to,
among other things, lower
incomes in the farming com-
munity and the effect of Paye
and higher income-tax.
Apart from the effects of
shortages in many lines, Paye
undoubtedly restricted sales
considerably, the chairman of
the Farmers’ Trading Co., Ltd.,
one of New Zealand’s largest
retail trading-companies, told
the annual meeting of share-
holders. Coupled with short-
ages and Paye was the
deliberate policy of the Gov-
ernment to reduce consumer-
spending.
Looking further ahead, how-
ever, Bond’s, Tekau and
Newton King have all forecast
improvement.
Overseas Companies
Ordinary overseas companies
investing in N.Z. will not be
eligible for the tax-concession
announced in the Budget. This
is made clear by the Land and
Income Tax Amendment Bill.
The bill provides that where
any investments or other assets
°f a non-resident investment
company are used wholly or
principally for the development
of N.Z., an Order-in-Council
may be made declaring those
investments or assets to be
development assets.
In such a case, if the income
from those investments or
assets would attract a lower
rate of income-tax in the
company’s country of resi-
dence, the N.Z. rate of ordinary
income-tax on that income is
to be reduced to the equivalent
rate in that country.
The Minister of Finance, Mr.
Nordmeyer, said he wanted to
make it clear, because there
seemed some misunderstanding
the provision did not apply to
ordinary overseas companies
investing in N.Z. They must
be investment companies, and
the particular company in mind
was the Commonwealth De-
velopment and Finance Cor-
poration, which had already
made advances in two cases, to
the Tasman Pulp and Paper
Company and the N.Z. Cement
Company.
Wool Prices in 1958-59
For the 1958-59 season
N.Z.’s greasy wool clip
realised the lowest average
price in 10 years, according to
figures presented by the chair-
man of the Wool Commission,
Mr. G. A. Duncan, in his
annual report to the electoral
college of the Wool Board.
The average price was
36.07 d. a pound, a reduction of
5.09 d. a pound, or 124 per cent,
on the 1957-58 season’s price of
41.16 d.
At the beginning of the 10-
year period, in 1949-50, the
average was 38d. and in 1950-
51, 88d. -In the intervening
years the average fluctuated
between 40d. apd 54d. a pound.
Total wool receipts for the
1958-59 season would amount
to £Bl million, compared with
£B5 million for the previous
season, said Mr. Duncan.
The production of greasy
and scoured wool for the
1958-59 season, at 1,363,342
bales (462,947,000 pounds),
represents an increase of 84
per cent, over the figure of
1,262,188 bales (426,668,000
pounds) for the previous
season, and an increase of 204
per cent, over the figure of
1,130,370 bales (384,709,000
pounds) of five years ago.
The production of all wool,
greasy, slipe and scoured, for
the 1958-59 season is 540-
million pounds, representing an
increase of 84 per cent, over the
total production figure of 496-
million pounds for the 1957-58
season.
Sales of greasy and scoured
wool at auction in New
Zealand during the 1958-59
season totalled 1,208,900 bales,
an increase of 102,200 bales
over the sales for 1957-58.
Private sales through brokers
and dealers amounted to
81,000 bales, compared with
50,900 bales for the previous
season. In addition, sales of
Wool Commission stock wool
at auction in N.Z. amounted
to 23,545 bales.
Sales of greasy and scoured
wool at auction in London
during the 1958-59 season
totalled 89,100 bales, com-
pared with 88,800 bales in
1957-58. In addition, sales of
Wool Commission stock wool
at London auctions totalled
21,371 bales.
Taxation and Investments
The Land and Income Tax
Amendment Bill contains
several provisions of special
interest to investors.
The bill makes it clear that
United Kingdom dividends are
liable for tax in N.Z., and it
paves the way for the taxation
of Australian dividends in
N.Z. when a double-tax agree-
ment is concluded between
the two countries.
N.Z. and Australia are
expected to conclude such a
double-tax agreement soon. It
is believed that, under the
agreement, Australian divi-
dends paid to New Zealanders
will be taxed in N.Z. at nor-
mal rates, but that credit will
be given for any tax already
paid in Australia.
The bill also defines what
the Minister meant when he
said that “for a reasonable
period” bonus- or scrip-issues
made by any company from
profits accumulated before the
1957-58 income-year would be
treated as non - assessable
income in shareholders’ hands.
This provision will remain
in force till March 31, 1963,
so that there is no need for
companies wishing to take
advantage of it to act urgently.
Speculative share-buying in
anticipation of scrip-issues
may, therefore, now lose some
of its keenness.
Where at any time within
the period of 10 years after
the making of a bonus-issue
to which these provisions
apply there is any distribution
to the shareholders of any
amount in money or money’s-
worth, which is directly or
indirectly a distribution of the
capital of those shares, the
amount of that distribution is
to be regarded as a dividend
derived by the shareholders in
the year in which the distribu-
tion is made.
Tie-up With Weipa?
At the N.Z. Government’s
invitation, Consolidated Zinc
has sent two technical repre-
sentatives to N.Z. for pre-
liminary discussions on the
development of the hydro-
electric potential of the South
Island.
Consolidated Zinc, in part-
nership with the British
Aluminium Company, is
developing extensive bauxite
deposits in North Australia,
and a substantial supply of
electric power is needed for
the production of aluminium
from the bauxite.
Mining-rights in Queens-
land are held from the Queens-
land State Government, which
would like to see the industry
established in that State.
However, that depends on the
availability of electricity. The
prospects for electricity in
New Guinea have also been
closely examined by the
company.
The plant to process
Queensland bauxite might take
anything up to 600 mega-
watts. It has been suggested
that N.Z.’s hydro resources
might be developed to meet
the need.
N.Z.’s distance from the
Queensland ore is probably
not an insuperable difficulty.
Canada and the United States
have big aluminium industries
using mainly Central Ameri-
can ore, and Norway also has
an aluminium industry based
on imported bauxite.
N.Z. has already offered to
make a major break with pre-
vious power policy if it would
help bring the industry here.
The Government has approved
in principle the idea that big
industries may be allowed to
generate their own power.
Meantime, search for high-
grade aluminium ore is being
made in N.Z. by the Soil
Bureau in co-operation with
the Geological Survey, follow-
ing the discovery of low-grade
ore covering large areas.
The deposits in N.Z. are
easily accessible. They occur
on easy rolling country in
well-roaded areas which are
only a few miles from a deep-
water harbor. If relatively
low-cost electric power is
available, N.Z. may be able
to develop her own deposits.
Huge quantities of power,
in excess of 20,000 kilowatt-
hours per ton of aluminium
produced, are required in the
process.


The Rule
By JACK LUSBY
When we were kids
it was a humdinger
place to be a kid—on
off-days from school,
and occasionally on wrong
days, we’d go birdnesting.
Or sometimes we'd race in
turn down the riverbank and
swing out on a long rope and
plop into the stream. You had
to let go, or you’d pendulum
back into the paspalum and
the other kids wouldn’t think
much of you. Sometimes
we’d get in a couple of cor-
rugated-iron canoes we had
planted and drift under the
river-bananas and feed like
monkeys.
Usually on these forays there
was Gator (our crack
swimmer), there was Mundie,
a chocolaty grinning ape who
could climb the trickiest of
trees, jump a three-rail fence,
bowl deadly yorkers, and even
at that age could wield a man-
size stockwhip like an expert;
there was myself and Roff.
Roff was a stringy dark-
haired kid who could fight,
when forced into it, in a
seemingly - lazy calculating
fashion ’way beyond his years.
Several times at school when
a weighty character seemed
about to clobber a smaller
scholar Roff said without fuss
“Look, I’m your size.” The
usual back-out was “Aw, I’m
not lookin’ for fight, Roff, this
kid gave cheek, that’s all.”
And mostly that was all.
Mundie’s dad was a stock-
man, and Mundie had ambi-
tions in that direction. Trail-
ing his long whip and wearing
an outsize hat on our excur-
sions he looked pretty much
the part, but different in the
face to the other abo. kids.
He used to say his grand-dad
came from the Islands to cut
cane in Queensland. Anyway
Mundie was pretty good with
this whip.
/”vne day there was a black
snake sunbaking on the
track when we were heading
for a swim. Roff was looking
up at some rosellas in a silky-
oak and fumbling for his
shanghai. He was putting one
foot in the worst possible
place. Crack ! Mundie’s stock-
whip got the snake right
behind the head, just where
a cat gets a snake. We had
to show-off a bit. Gator was
still wearing the snake like a
scarf when he got home to
tea, and got a mild sort of a
belting.
It was no mild belting
Mundie was getting in a lane
after school the day Roff went
to help him. Mundie had
moved on ahead towards home,
while quite a bunch of us
stayed back hoping for some
fun in the horse-paddock.
Strong loops had been
knotted in the knee-high pas-
palum grass and a few of the
kids who were chasing one
another round full-pelt were
getting tripped flat on then-
faces. A girl cantering her
pony out nearly came down
and the game was over. We
picked up our satchels and
started-off behind Mundie.
It was a grim and silent
affair in the lane. Mundie was
a dreadful mess and two big
lumps of kids were still laying
into him.
When they saw they had
company they stood back un-
decided.
“Are you ready?” Roff said
to one of them.
“Come on,” said this kid,
and put his fists up. He really
had little choice. A small
crowd had gathered like magic.
Even two or three men were
looking on.
From the start this fight
looked like being something
more than just a few swings
and a surrender. Mundie was
sitting with his back to a
paling-fence. Gator and I
went over and rubbed his face
with handkerchiefs, patted him
on the shoulder, then turned
back to see how Roff was
faring.
XTis opponent had him think-
ing, but Roff was good at
that. As they circled we could
see where Roff had taken a
solid smack on the cheekbone.
Suddenly Roff’s stringy left
arm straightened like a striking
snake, and he stepped back a
little while the other bloke got
on his feet. A wary affair for
about the next* half-minute.
Then the other kid went at
Roff hammer - and - tongs
and he jerked Roff s head back
a couple of times. Once Roff
was knocked to his knees, but
scrambled sideways and up
safely.
Roff was always a rather
serious kid. Now his thin face,
pale under the red patches,
looked old and bleak. But you
felt he had it worked out. That
an inch or so longer reach and
knowing all about the shortest
distance between two points
outweighed the other fellow's
bulk. But both were game.
As they circled and poked,
punched and dodged they
seemed more like men than
schoolkids, and it still looked
pretty even. Except when you
got a clear glimpse of the look
on Roff’s face.
Without warning the other
kid decided to get right in close
and make a go of it, live or
die. Out of a flurry of fists
flashed that skinny snake-
strike and the other kid
crumpled and spread out on
the ground like when the
sheriff shoots a baddie. Some-
body started to count this kid
out, and one of the men there
told him to shuLup. This man
leaned over and looked at the
kid for a moment, felt his
pulse and stood up.
“Nobody touch him,” he
told us all. “This lad's crook.”
He said something to another
man, and this one went away
almost running. We all stood
around, whispering, fidgeting
and frightened. Even Mundie’d
been up again watching the
finish. Roff stood there look-
ing sick and exhausted, running
bruised fingers through. his
lank, dark hair.
We heard car-brakes, and
Doctor Sands came hurrying
down the lane with the man
who’d gone running. Then two
ambulance - men with a
stretcher, and soon after that
Sergeant McPhail stood tower-
ing over us kids.
When they took the kid on
the ground away they had a
blanket over him. Over all of
him.
They found out, and it was
all published in the paper, that


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,-
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY. '
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..-
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.J:
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques*
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
the kid Roff fought had bad
heart trouble that even his
dad and mum hadn’t known
about. Anything more than
out-of-the-way strenuous would
most likely have killed him.
Roff didn't come to school
for a few days. Then the head-
master went and saw him, and
Sergeant McPhail went and
talked to Roff, and so did
Doctor Sands. And Roff came
back to school.
Roff was always quiet and
serious, with some kind of a
deep streak in him, and even
we kids could see he’d been
hit in the deepest part of him.
And only some clumsy mug
who didn’t know him would
go up and say “Cripes I’m
sorry, Roff— you know that,
Roff!”
About the only thing he ever
said to us about the fight was
when he was drying-out on the
riverbank with Mundie and
Gator and me one day, about
three weeks after the business.
“I’ll be marked for life,”
Roff said. “I’ll never fight
again.”
“What if someone really
picks on you,” said Gator after
a bit of thought. “What if
you just can’t dodge it?”
“I’ll never fight again,” was
all Roff said.
“If that gets around they’ll
all be havin’ a crack!”
“Let ’em.”
TAURING the next few years
Roff altered in an unex-
pected way.
Many wiseacres in the town
had predicted he’d grow-up
bitter and withdrawn. Dodg-
ing people. Roff grew-up all
right, tall, dark and handsome
as they come. He grew into a
well-fleshed, seemingly lazy,
easy-smiling bloke. Quiet as
ever. Quiet for the rest of his
life.
As he went from ’teens to
20’s he’d attained some sort
of serenity or philosophy that
seemed years ahead of Roff,
that made people like to be
with him. There’d always been
something years ahead in him,
so that wasn’t altogether out
of character. But those of
us who could easily remember
the stringy, over-serious, hard-
fighting kid often scratched our
chins over the outcome.
Afterwards I heard of odd
members of that little mob
from time to time. Read of
Mundie putting up a good
show in a country cricket team.
Later heard of Gator’s death
in North Africa. Ran into a
couple of others after the war.
No, they didn’t know where
Roff had got to. Didya hear
the strife So-an-so’s got into?
Four or five years ago in the
city I met a man I hadn’t seen
for a long time, and we
swapped salaams over a brace
of beers.
“You look pretty fit, Sten,”
I said. “Where’ve you been?”
“Aw, way up to hell-an-
gone. Forestry camps.”
“Any good?”
“Fair enough, but y’know
what those camps are like.
Man needs a break like this
now and then. Funny thing—
there was a bloke up there
knew you. Went to school
with you. Roffney.”
“Roff \ Big dark bloke?”
“That’s the boy. We were
pretty good mates up there.
One Sunday we were reading
the paper that prints your stuff
and, like you do in the bush, I
said I knew you, and Roff said
so did he, if you were the same
bloke.”
“Yes, two more, please.” I
turned back to Sten. “How
close did you get to him?”
“Pretty close. He told me
about that business. I’m tell-
ing you something now, mate,
in a roundabout way. Y'know
Roff swore he’d never fight
again, no matter what?”
“I know.”
T WAS wondering uneasily if
Roff had broken-out and
done it again. All this past
tense of Sten’s.
“Well, he stuck to it up there.
And there were plenty of
fights in those camps. Got into
a few myself. We had one par-
ticular rough-as-guts ratbag.
Used to go crazy on rum. He
didn’t just get around with a
chip on his shoulder. The
whole bloody tree.”
“Nice bloke!”
“Just the very boy for your
son-in-law! He took a dislike
to Roff for some mad reason.
Always trying to get Roff
going. Roff’s form was to just
grin and brush it off. Made
the ratbag madder.”
“Something bound to hap-
pen.”
“That’s it. There was a
dance, and we sent the trucks
in as usual and brought sheilas
out from the town. Nice ones
among ’em, too. They’d bring
cakes, scones and all that stuff.
Well, the dance had been
going along clean as a whistle
for a good while. Roff was
dancing round with this Claire,
a barmaid and pretty popular,
when this ratbag—Vense was
his name —busted in, dirty and
dangerous and well round the
bend, and went straight for
Roff.
“Tapped him on the shoulder
like you’d kill a calf, peached
for the sheila and bawled out
‘My turn !’
“Roff just shook him clear
and told him if it was his turn,
to get back outside and shout
for the mob. Said he was
spoiling a good dance.”
Sten took a grim swig of his
beer there on the city bar.
“Then Vense hauled off and
smacked Claire on the face!
He sang out, ‘You’ve been
dodging me a long time, you
bloody dingo. Will that make
you fight?”’
I didn’t interrupt. I still
didn’t know what to say.
C'TEN was taking it pretty
hard, whatever he was re-
membering:—
“Roff spun him round, got
some kind of armlock on him
and ran him clean out of the
dance-hall, scattering the mob
at the door, and on into the
pitch-dark outside. This Claire
tried to run out too, but the
blokes at the door blocked her.
They said Roff would handle
it all right.
“Then Roff came back in-
side looking in good order and
condition, and no evidence of
a fight. Next thing we heard
was Vense out there roaring
like a bull. Sound of it, he was
way across the clearing where
the scrub started.
“We went over there with
lights and he was standing with
his back to a tree, tugging like
a groper, and what he was
roaring out sent the sheilas
back more than a step or two.
“His wrists were tied behind
him and the rope went round
the tree. Otherwise he was
all right, so we let him roar
and went back to wind-up the
dance.”
“Get on with it, Sten,” I
said. “Was that all?”
“Hold your horses, mate.
That was one time Roff
should’ve broke his damnfool
rule and had a go. This rum-
crazy Vense still hadn’t had his
fight, see? And on top of that
he’d been made to look the all-
time silliest galah in the camps.
Dynamite with a short fuse.
Which of ’em d’you reckon was
the craziest?”
“I don’t know, yet.”
“Well, off went the trucks
with the sheilas, and off went
the rest of us to our tents for
some shut-eye. Couple of
fellers had a look at Vense.
He’d calmed-down a fair bit
and was simply leaning back
against the tree, blasting-off
now and then. Roff had
turned-in earlier. Vense was
doing as much good where he
was as anywhere. We hit the
cot.
“It couldn’t have been much
later —half the camp woke
with gooseflesh. There was a
mad, bubbling sort of high-up
banshee scream out there in
the dark that stopped my
heart! I caught some words
in it and started running.
“ ‘lf he-e-e won’t stand up to
me I’ll get the ha-a-a-astid lyin’
down !’
“That raving, rum-soaked
madman had fooled some mug
into cutting him loose and he’d
moved like his own bloody
shadow till he got an axe.
“We all ran like the wind to
Roff’s tent, mate. Too late.”
I didn’t finish my beer.


A Satisfied Victim Tells All
Quizzed by Bob Dyer
By J. B. BLAIR
The question I have been
asked to answer is,
“What does it feel like
to win a Bob Dyer
‘Winner Take All’ contest?”
Before getting on to that I
had better answer another one
that has been fired at me quite
a lot lately—“ How do you get
on a Bob Dyer show?” Well,
in my case it was quite easy.
I simply opened an envelope
one day and found a letter
acknowledging my application
and inviting me to come along
for a test. As I hadn’t made
any application for a test I
immediately suspected some
jiggery-pokey, whereupon my
wife decided it was time to
confess all.
She reminded me that for
years she had been pointing-
out to me that our refrigerator,
which in its youth had served
admirably the needs of married
couple plus baby, was no
longer adequate for the same
couple (like itself, somewhat
older) plus three teenage sons
and a daughter. She was never
really convinced by my argu-
ment that as the same cheque-
book somehow or other
managed to cover the needs of
the larger family it was up to
the fridge similarly to accom-
modate itself to changing con-
ditions.
For years my sales-resistance
successfully held-out against my
spouse’s carefully planned cam-
paign for a new fridge. I’ll
admit there were times when I
wavered. I don’t really like
warm beer, but when I used to
find my bottles put back in
the pantry so that non-
essentials like milk and butter
could enjoy the cooler tempera-
tures of the fridge, I felt it
wiser not to complain. For
the same reason, when my wife
would, rather pointedly, apolo-
gue to the children because the
jelly hadn’t set stiffly enough,
adding but what could you
expect when there wasn’t
enough room in the fridge to
set a mousetrap, let alone a
dish of jelly, the best I could
do was maintain that the
proper way t© serve jelly was
in a semi-liquid state ; that
firmly-set jelly was not con-
ducive to good health. It
never sounded very convincing,
even to me.
As time went on my wife
even sank so low as to get
her friends to ask (in my
presence) however she man-
aged with so small a fridge.
But low r as she sank, I was
always able to show her that
I could be lower still —the over-
worked fridge remained on
strength.
The climax probably came
after the night when a friend’s
young daughter, entering our
kitchen for the first time,
clasped her hands in apparent
admiration and enthused “What
a darling little refrigerator. I
don’t think I’ve ever seen such
a dear little pet of a fridge!”
I hastened to assure her that
End of the duel. Raleigh Mathews ( runner-up), Bob Dyer, Jim Blair.
we wouldn’t part with the
darling little pet for worlds.
My wife slunk out of the
kitchen, foiled. Next day,
despairing of ever getting a
new fridge out of me by fair
means, she decided to use
guile. She had heard some-
one win a refrigerator on a
radio-quiz,' so she forged my
name on a letter to Bob Dyer
—with the result mentioned
earlier.
Her confession put me in a
quandary. I had either to ex-
pose my own wife as a forger
or accept the dare. Possibly
I also felt a trifle flattered at
her touching faith in my ability
to win her a refrigerator—or
anything.
A short time later I found
myself on the stage at the
Macquarie Auditorium along
with about two-dozen other
contestants. I don’t know
whether any of the others were
there on forged credentials,
They all looked honest enough.
For that matter so did my wife,
nursing her guilty secret in the
front row of the audience.
A lso on stage were Bob and
Dolly Dyer, Bob’s two
assistants Allan and Win
Larkin, three microphones, a
buzzer and a bell—and a box
of tricks introduced to the
audience as the Murphyphone
which, in the opinion of most
contestants, is devised to ensure
that when you press your
buzzer the other person’s bell
rings first.
1 think Bob probably got
the idea for his “Winner Take
Ail” from the Roman Coliseum
game in which two gladiators
fought until one cut the other’s
throat and was then matched
against another and another
and continued to slit throats
until his own was slit, where-
upon the new champion
followed the same routine until
he got his, and so on until the
supply of gladiators ran out or
Nero cried “Enough.”
In the Dyer version the con-
testants are plied with ques-
tions. No daggers are allowed;
the gladiators are armed with
a buzzer and bell respectively.
When Bob asks a question the
first one to ring (or buzz) gets
the right to have a stab at the
answer, and the first to answer
five questions correctly wins
the prize. The loser returns to
his seat (clutching his parcel of
Palmolive products) and Dolly
introduces the next gladiator—
er—contestant.
It’s a cheerful show. At
least, the studio audience seem
to find it cheerful, and, except
when they’re actually in front
of the mike, so do the con-
testants.
If a contestant wins 15
prizes he qualifies for “The
Battle of the Champs,” in which
he is pitted against another
“champ” in a contest for 100
points, fair go and no favor,
the winner to receive an
Austin Cambridge motorcar ;
the runner-up a Pye TV-set.
This seems to me a decided im-
provement on the contests of
Nero’s day.
HThere’s no obligation on the
winner to stop at 15.
prejudicing his
chances in the motorcar-TV
match he can keep on “taking-
all,” as long as his luck holds
good and his thumb can press
the bell-push, until someone
slits his throat or he drops from
exhaustion or decides it is time
to retire. The record is held by
George Black, who retired after
35 victories.
I don’t think it’s giving away
any vital secret to explain that
Bob sometimes records two or
three of these shows at one
sitting. At my first appearance
I survived two sessions at the
mike and tottered out of the
Coliseum with a throat as dry
as chips (but still unslit), my
head and my wife in a whirl,
to find a chariot to carry home
o Continued on page 43)


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Spring Form Showing
Commenting on prospects
for the Canterbury Guineas
this page last week suggested
that “Martello Towers, right
at peak form, Travel Boy, and
Spacewise, could figure in the
prizemoney.” They duly filled
the places, with Martello
Towers (9 to 4) a decisive
winner over 40-to-l Spacewise
and 6-to-4 favorite Travel
Boy. The brilliant grey is
expected to keep the good
work going in the Rosehill
Guineas on September 19.
Martello Towers has now
won races at Canterbury,
Warwick Farm and Rosehill.
Travel Boy, however, was far
from comfortable on the
undulating Canterbury course,
got into more than one scrim-
mage, as also did Noholme.
When the field entered the back
stretch Travel Boy was one
of the last,' and he was still
far from the leader at the
home-turn. He will, however,
need to do much better in the
Rosehill Guineas to give his
early Derby backers renewed
confidence. At this stage the
Derby looks like being a match
between Martello Towers and
Travel Boy.
As Spacewise finished ahead
of Travel Boy at Canterbury,
with the heavily backed
Noholme near the tail of the
field, she looks like making
it interesting for the colts in
all top three-year-old races;
retained for events restricted
to fillies she would appear a
very good thing indeed. She
is a weil-built and strong filly
by Flying Missel (Am.) from
Merrie Merton by Golden
Sovereign (imp.).
Gemsbok’s easy disposal
of the fancied Sun Idol and
odds-on Cherryhurst in the
Second Ashbury Stakes at
Canterbury suggests that he
should go on to much better
things in sprint company.
Owned and trained at Canter-
bury by Bob Mead, who has
been a long time in racing,
Gemsbok has had few starts,
but had been placed at two
prior runs. The weak finish-
ing run by Cherryhurst was
surprising after her runaway
win at the same track on
August 19, her only previous
race. Gemsbok is by Gaek-
war’s Pride (imp.) from Near
Thing (imp.), a grey mare bred
in England in 1944 by Nearco
from Loelia by Blandford.
Court Gold’s stylish win in
the Canterbury Park Flying
pointed to Epsom prospects,
and she has come right into the
picture in an unsettled market.
Perouse’s performance in the
Warwick Stakes was encourag-
ing, but he will need to
improve to hold his position
as first choice for the Rand-
wick mile. Huntly hasn’t
shown much so far.
Had Morning Gleam been
able to hold the run on the
rails which she secured soon
“Medic!”
after the start she mightn’t
have been beaten by Flash
Gem in the main handicap.
Also, she made the home-
turn a bit too wide. She
is a game mare and always
fights on, and her wins include
one over Wiggle at Randwick.
She finished second to Chicola
in the A.J.C. Adrian Knox
Stakes (12 furlongs) last
autumn. Flash Gem’s form
showed a big improvement.
Having his fourth start after
a spell, the McCarten-trained
Akatarawa was much too solid
for the favorite, In Love, and
Royal Pastime in the Canter-
bury Welter. This time N.
Sellwood was the jockey, and
his experience and strength
were main factors in the geld-
ing’s improved form ; he’d
finished fifth in a similar race
at the same track on August 26
when ridden by an apprentice.
Royal Pastime, having his
fifth start in four weeks for a
win, a second and a third,
looked fit and raced right to
form, but the longer distance
(7j furlongs) beat him. His
third was a good effort just the
same. He’s in the stable of
Gordon Brown, who gives
sfablemate French Descent a
fair chance in the Derby.
A 1 Kuwait, who came with
a belated burst to beat Moon
Raider in the Third Ashbury
Stakes, was sold by owner
J. Cassidy for 575gns. about
18 months ago, since when he
has won upwards of £2500 in
stakes, all in restricted events.
He won with 9st. and now
goes into open company.
• • • • .
Having his first start since
failing in the Brisbane Cup
and the Moreton Handicap at
Eagle Farm in June, five-year-
old Foxmara, one of T. J.
Smith’s Randwick team,
handed-out a promising effort
in the Canterbury Park Handi-
cap (9} furlongs). The New
Zealander, ridden by stable
apprentice H. Williams, was a
faraway fifth at the finish, but
he should be benefited by the
run and could enter the list
of Metropolitan or Cups
chances. A 50-to-l shot on
Saturday, he has 8-2 in the
Metrop., and on his dis-
plays at Randwick earlier in
the year he should be a show
in any long-distance race of
the spring round.
* * *
Scratching of New Zea-
lander and warm favorite Up
And Coming from the Epsom,
which enriched doubles book-
makers and made punters sore,
has left the big mile wide
open from the betting angle,
and at this stage it would be
difficult to pick the horse likely
to be favorite. Racing at
Randwick next Saturday and
at Rosehill on September 26
should help to clear the
position.
In earlier years Tattersall’s
Tramway Handicap, main
sprint at Randwick next Satur-
day, was regarded as a pointer
to the Epsom, but it’s seven
years since the same horse won
both events. That was High
Law in 1952. In 1948 De La
Salle and in 1945 Shannon also
landed the double. Three years
ago Teranyan won the Tram-
way and was beaten half-a-
head by Knave in the Epsom.
Tatt.’s attracted a particularly
strong lot of entrants for both
the Tramway and the £2lOO
Chelmsford Stakes (w.f.a.), the
real highlight of the meeting.
* * *
At Caulfield
There is no doubt after the
running of the Memsie Stakes
at Caulfield last Saturday that
Lord has come up again as
good as ever. He never looked
like losing the Memsie Stakes,
even at the half-mile post,
where Count Tassia was bowl-
ing along eight lengths clear.
Lord led the chase, hit the
front rounding the turn, and
was untroubled to hold-off
Gay Saba and Tudor Hill.
Lord is almost invincible at
Caulfield, his home-track. The big
Targui gelding has won his last
10 starts at the “Heath,” and 13 of
his 16 wins have been notched there.
The Memsie prize (£2000) lifted
his stake-earnings to £24,344.
W. R. Kemball has had a great
run in the Memsie —Ellerslie won
the race for him in 1951, Coppice
scored in ’54 and ’55, and Lord
won it. last year. Carrying her
Cups weight of 8.9, Chicola ran
a pleasing fifth behind Lord, and
she’s sure to show to better advan-
tage over a longer distance than
the nine furlongs of Saturday’s
race.
• • • •
Last spring, after a couple
of disappointing runs, Sir
Blink won the Heatherlie
Handicap and went on to win
the Caulfield Cup. He has
been following the same trail
this season, but his Cup hopes
received a setback when
Maori Gold defeated him in
last Saturday’s Heatherlie.
Not that the Blue Coral horse
ran badly. He put-up a fine
effort to lump 9.5 against a
good-class field of handi-
cappers, and was defeated only
narrowly.
Sir Blink’s problem is size; he
is only a little fellow, and will find
it difficult to win the Caulfield Cup
with more than 9st. Most of the
Heatherlie runners have Cup
aspirations, but their performances
bolstered the bookmakers’ opinion,
as revealed by the Cups charts, that
the big handicaps this spring will
be won by inter-State or N.Z.
entries.
Winner of the Warriston
Handicap, Anonyme is
entitled to be ranked as Vic-
toria’s best three-year-old.
Whether he’s a Derby colt is
a matter of doubt. He’s by
Landau, formerly raced by


KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street,
SYDNEY
Queen Elizabeth, and is from
La Patrice. There is stout
staying-blood on his sire’s side
(Landau was by English
Derby winner Dante), but La
Patrice was a sprinter ; and
the way the Warriston was
run did not indicate clearly
whether Anonyme would get
12 furlongs. Anyway, the colt
put-up an excellent perform-
ance to overcome an early
check and hold-off all chal-
lengers in the run home.
Mentone trainer Brian
Courtney started two three-
year-olds in the Whittier Handi-
cap (for all ages), both of them
having their first run after a
spell. One of the pair, My
Peak, won the race, and the
other, Dhaulagiri, finished
stoutly in fourth place. Both
colts are by High Peak, but
whereas My Peak, who is out
of Aversion, is unlikely to stay,
Dhaulagiri gets stout staying-
blood from his dam, Solar
Circle, and looks a real Derby
hope. From 10 starts My Peak
has won four and been placed
four times, and in his winter
campaign Dhaulagiri won three
times from four starts.
Trainer Joe Mulcahy believes
Wheel will win the Oaks, giving
the race to a Victorian filly for
the third year in a row. Wheel
is by Nilo out of Aspect, and,
having her second run after a
spell, showed a touch of class
in beating a field of good fillies
in the seven-furlongs Glen Eira
Handicap.
The aged Rolled Gold geld-
ing Nether Gold probably
earned himself a run in the
Caulfield Cup by his good
effort to win -the mile-and-a-
half Doona Handicap. Satur-
day’s success was his first win
beyond 10 furlongs : he carried
8.5, cut the distance out in
2.29 4/5, and in the Cup drops
to 7.10. Most of the runners
in the Doona are Cups entries,
but it would be a waste of
money to pay-up for them.
* * *
Trots
Before a crowd of 19,628
at Harold Park last Friday
night the Phillis-driven Shell-
grit atoned for his unlucky
second in the shorter race of
the previous week by winning
the 15 - furlongs Trotters’
Handicap by four lengths from
Gunrock and Single Raider in
the smart time of 4 min.
16 sec., beating his own
previous record of 4.24 f. Jim
Caffyn completed a double by
driving Trentalene to victory
in the First Qualifying Stakes
and Anya in the second, and
made it a treble by taking out
the Bondi Handicap with
Game Raider —in the first
lap Picasso and O'Dearo
broke, completely disorganis-
ing the rear half of the field.
Game Raider missed the mix-
up, and went on to a convinc-
ing win from the last-lap leader
Craig Hanover. Victorian
Marciano repeated his con-
sistently good form of late last
season by easily winning the
Harold Park Handicap from
the fancied Guiseppe and
Delvyn Ringer. Taking the
lead almost from the start,
Marciano made his own pace
throughout and had plenty in
reserve when challenged in the
straight. One more win makes
him eligible for next month’s
rich Anniversary Cup.
* * *
The Cup Comes Home
The 1959 Davis Cup Chal-
lenge Round, with Australia
wresting the Cup back from
the Americans at the West Side
Tennis Club, Forest Hills, New
York, provided a shade more
than the usual helping of sus-
tained interest and excitement.
There was the comparative
rarity of play carrying over
to a fourth day, with the score
two matches all and one set all
in the final match.
If any psychological factor
played a part in the outcome
it was Neale Fraser’s grimly
decisive win over Olmedo in
the opening singles. A hard
match, and, on paper, close,
with Fraser winning 8-6, 6-8,
6-4, 8-6. But, in fact, Fraser
seemed always to be on top,
and pretty thoroughly pricked
the Olmedo bubble.
The score was evened, and
the experts again confounded,
when Queenslander Rod Laver
was soundly trounced, 7-5,
6-4, 6-1, by the hefty Ameri-
can Barry Mac Kay.
Except for a few whistlers-
in-the-dark in the American
camp, everyone correctly
picked Australia to win the
doubles, but few expected it to
be such a walkover —7-5, 6-4,
6-1. While he had made a
fair showing in defeat against
Fraser in the singles, Olmedo
was extremely weak in the
doubles. At the same time
Australia uncovered a new
doubles star in young Roy
Emerson, who teamed with
Fraser and was the outstand-
ing player of the four;
Olmedo’s partner was E.
Buchholz.
On the third day, Laver,
although beaten 9-7, 4-6, 10-8,
12-10 by Olmedo, showed
that his reaching the final at
Wimbledon was no fluke. In
fact, he was beaten only by
the inexperience that tells
under the pressure of a Chal-
lenge Round. Laver actually
held set-point in each of the
four sets, yet got there in only
one of them.
The final singles was inter-
rupted by failing light after
Fraser had taken the first set
from Mac Kay 8-6 and Mac-
Kay had taken the second 6-3.
A tense situation, with 20
hours or so for the tension to
build-up. But the outcome
was anticlimactic. Resuming
on the following day, Fraser
disposed of Mac Kay in easy
fashion, the final score being
8-6, 3-6, 6-2, 6-4.
It might be premature to
write-off Olmedo .on his show-
ing in the Cup tie; on the
other hand, it certainly leads
one to inspect a little more
closely this previously obscure
player who shot into overnight
prominence with his virtually
lone-hand win in last year’s
Cup tie, and seemed to confirm
his stature when he won
Wimbledon. At all events, in
Fraser, Laver and Emerson,
not to mention the horde of
up-and-coming youngsters who
are treading close on the heels
of those slightly older young-
sters, Australia seems to have
the ingredients for at least a
few successful defences of the
Davis Cup in the immediate
future.
* * *
From Rome
“Recorder”: Some interest-
ing data from Rome, vepue of
next year’s Olympic Games:
Rome’s hotels, private lodging-
places, communal housing and
camping - grounds can provide
120,000 “places.” In emergency
it would be possible to add col-
lective accommodation in schools,
halls, etc., to provide for another
20,000.
Athletes will be well fed, but
not nearly as well as in Melbourne
in 1956. After studies on diet-data
obtained in previous Olympics,
athletes will be provided with a diet
based on a total ot 4460 calories,
to be supplemented by fresh fruit
and natural drinks.
Rome’s international airport at
Fiumicino is having a face-lift at
a cost already of more than
£1,000,000, and the work is only
half-completed.
Italy is determined to put-on a
better Olympics than Melbourne s,
but there’s one venue they can’t
equal—the main athletic stadium.
Theirs will take 140,000 (Mel-
bourne’s, 104,000), but, unlike
Melbourne, there isn’t a seat under
shelter. Melbourne seated over
60,000 under shelter. It looks like
a sweaty time for those packed
into the giant concrete bowl at
Rome.
The committee organising the
track and field events has ruled-
out the possibility of any athlete
emulating the feat of Emil Zatopek.
In 1948 Zatopek, a Czech Army
physical-instructor, won the 5000-
metres, 10,000-metres and the
26-mile marathon at Helsinki
(Finland). News received in Aus-
tralia shows how impossible it
would be for anyone to make the
effort in Rome next year.
The 5000-metres heats and final
will be held on successive days.
On the next two days the heats
and final of the 10,000-metres will
be run, and the marathon is down
for the day after. This means five
hard races in five days; it poses
problems for Australian athletes,
and will require some to specialise
in one event.
For example, Herb Elliott,
world mile-record holder, hoped to
run in the 800-metres and 1500-
metres, but that is impossible be-
cause of the draw. So he now hopes
to run in the 800-metres and 5000-
metres. Albert Thomas, holder of
two world distance-records, planned
to compete in the 5000-metres and
10,000-metres, but now will con-
centrate on the shorter distance.
The decision widens chances for
more of Australia’s athletes to gain
selection, but for every additional
man the amount involved will be
£6OO. Will the public pay? Already
the estimated cost of the team is
£IOO,OOO.
* * •
Playing It Hard
“K.R.”: Brisbane’s very first
cricket Test, in 1928, the depiction
of which by Leason was repub-
lished in the Queensland Centenary
Pageant (B. 26/8/’59), marked
another important “first” —it was
Don Bradman’s first Test.
Sir Donald was often accused
in later years by English sports-
writers of “playing the game the
hard way.” If that is so, he had
a noble exemplar in the opposing
English captain in his Test bap-
tism. Here Bradman saw, to
quote “Johnny” Moyes, “the
Kangaroo’s tail twisted into knots,
his head rubbed in the Brisbane
mud.”
England batted first, and rattled-
up 521.~ Towards the end of the
innings Jack Gregory, after bowl-
ing 41 overs for 3-142, had to limp
off the field with leg-trouble and
took no further part in the match
—in fact, he never played cricket
again.
Without Gregory, Australia made
only 122, Larwood taking 6-32.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BERYL LORRAINE MOORE late of
23 Yuruga Avenue Caringbah AND to
JAMES BERNARD GALLAGHER late
of 19 Kanoona Street Caringbah.—TAKE
NOTICE that STANLEY NEVILLE
MOORE has filed a Petition No. 2914 of
1959 for Divorce from BERYL LOR-
RAINE MOORE on the ground of
adultery with JAMES BERNARD GAL-
LAGHER If you or either of you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 11th November 1959 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from BARKELL & PEACOCK, Solicitors,
of 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. JHARMS, Registrar.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
Kelleway, Gregory’s opening part-
ner with the ball, then fell ill,
and also dropped right out of the
match—it was his last Test, too.
With Australia 399 behind and
only nine men to bat, England
chose to go in again, eventually
declaring at 8-342, leaving Aus-
tralia 742 to get to win. At the
end of that day the score was
1-17, Ponsford having gone cneapiy,
and overnight it rained. Next
morning, on a “sticky,” the side
collapsed for 66, Woodfull batting
through the innings for 30 not-out.
England probably had the game
in hand before the loss of Gregory
and Kelleway, but for it to bat
a second time was certainly
rubbing salt in.
Incidentally, Bradman made 18
and 1, and was dropped for the
second Test (the only time in his
career he ever was dropped), but
was brought back for the third
Test, in which he made 79 and
112, prelude to his remarkable
Test-career.
* * •
Other Sports
Before a crowd of 85,998,
Essendon beat Collingwood
14.16-8.14 in the first V.F.L.
semi-final, to end ’Wood’s
valiant fight to make the final four
after its disastrous start of five
successive losses. Essendon, too,
seemed an unlikely contender for
the flag after its very patchy early-
season form, but the Dons have
been playing fast, strong football
in recent games. It was 4.9-4.8 to
the Dons at half-time, then they
ran away with the game in the
third quarter, when they added
6.2 to 1.3. Young State full-
forward Ron Evans kicked five
goals for the winners, captain Jack
Clarke had a great game, and first-
year player lan Shelton played a
big part in blanketing Magpie star
Weideman. This Saturday, it’s
Melbourne v. Carlton.
Adelaide’s final four are Port,
West, Sturt and Glenelg, the last
two level on match-points. Sturt
made it despite losing its last three
games. West Torrens, the only
other “possible” for the major
round, was overwhelmed by * Port
on Saturday, 16.17-11.10. Port,
after losing its opening game, has
won all 17 other games, and is
strongly favored for its sixth
successive title.
In Sydney, Eastern Suburbs won
its seventh successive premiership,
beating Newtown 14.11-7.11 in the
grand-final on Sunday.
In his third V.F.L. season,
20-year-old South Melbourne rover
Bob Skilton has won the 1959
Brownlow Medal. Skilton has
shown outstanding football ability
since he was a child, and has been
one of the most brilliant V.F.L.
footballers this year. He won on
a count-back from 22-year-old St.
Kilda fullback Verdun Howell, in
his second year of League. Had
' Howell won, he would have been
the third St. Kilda player in
succession to bag the Brownlow.
• * *
Sydney Rugby Union’s
second semi-final was won by
minor premier Randwick,
beating Manly 16-6. At half-
time ’Wick led. 5-0, and ran
away to a 16-0 lead early in
the second half. Randwick’s
four stars were brilliant half
Catchpole, the two Thornetts
and breakaway Reid. This
Saturday, Manly v. North
At Auckland, in a wild and
torrid game, the British Isles
beat Maoris 12-6, all 18 points
coming from goals (all penal-
ties bar one field-goal by the
tourists).
s{*
The final four in Sydney
Soccer, with one round to go,
are Prague (which on Sunday
suffered its first defeat of the
year, 3-2, at the hands of
Apia), Apia, Corrimal and
Hakoah. Auburn’s 4-1 defeat
“Ouch !"
of Canterbury on Sunday
eliminated the Berries, who
cannot now overtake Hakoah
—which, before Sunday, they
looked like doing. On Satur-
day Hakoah beat Sydney
Austral 1-0 in a dull game,
enlivened only by one of those
all-in brawls all-too-common
at Soccer... .Melbourne’s 1959
League Soccer premiership
was won by Dutch team
Wilhelmina.
* * *
“Insider”: A fair sort of
fight was waged within the
Rugby League over the
appointment of a coach to help
the touring Kangaroo team,
former fullback idol Clive
Churchill finally landing the
job by one vote. He beat
Arthur Clues, who’s in Eng-
land and was confident, on
information he’d received from
Australia, that the job was
his. Plans went astray when
82-year-old Board of Control
chairman H. R. (“Jersey”)
Flegg gave a casting-vote to
Churchill in a 3-3 woting-
deadlock. Asked why, Flegg
did not pull a punch: “Why
throw away money on a player
who’s been in England for ten
years or so? He hasn’t the
faintest idea of Australian
football. Churchill has, so he
got my casting-vote.”
* * *
“Insider”: Those who study
Australian sport appreciate the
gradual movement towards
adoption of American and
European methods of promo-
tion. Overseas it is common
practice for athletes to “live”
on sport promoted by organisa-
tions for advertising and pub-
licity purposes. The system is
growing in Australia, where we
find Soccer, cricket, tennis, pro-
fessional golf, Union and
League football and water-polo
being “assisted” by firms, some
of which are engaged in healthy
competition. It won’t be long
before another big N.S.W.
manufacturing company comes
into the tennis-field, whilst
another will announce its asso-
ciation with the newly “im-
ported” game of indoor bowl-
ing.
* * V
“Caddy”: Cost of promot-
ing the two big golf tourna-
ments to be held in November
—the Ampol at Kensington
course, Sydney, and the Canada
Cup at Royal Melbourne —is
tremendous, and on present
thoughts anyone who wants to
see the stars will be asked to
pay £1 a day.
* * *
“Soliy”: East Perth, in West-
ralian League football, won
its first 17 games this year'before
going down to West Perth
and East Fremantle in succes-
sive rounds. Team-work —
that’s been its strength.
East Perth is the only
Westralian side playing the
modem play-on game ; there’s
always a man running past a
team-mate with the ball, taking
a hand-pass and driving the
ball swiftly forward. For their
superb handball Easts have to
thank Jack Sheedy, their 33-
year-old captain-coach, a
masterly ball-puncher with
either fist, and still a power
on the half-forward line.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITAIN, FRANCE AND GERMANY
T ondon “Economist” reports
that “a new episode in the
latest phase of Anglo-German
differences has been sparked-
off by the [London] ‘Daily
Herald,’ which revived stories
of West German participation
in manufacture of the French
atomic bomb.
“West Germany is providing
cash as well as scientists for
the French programme, the
‘Herald’ suggested on August
11 ; German influence may
even extend to the production
of plutonium, the nuclear
explosive. Later the paper also
suggested that Bonn was con-
tributing, through a joint arma-
ments-commission, to the up-
keep of the Sahara testing-
grounds, and that German
experts were regular visitors.
Under the seven - Power
Western European Union
treaty, which provided the
framework for German re-
armament, West Germany
renounced the right to make
atomic weapons. Now, im-
plied the ‘Herald,’ the unholy
alliance of Dr. Adenauer and
President de Gaulle was
smuggling Germany into the
nuclear club through the
French back-door.
“All this was taken seriously
both in Paris and in Bonn.
Herr Strauss, the West
German Defence Minister, has
rebutted the charges in detail
and invited the paper’s corre-
spondents to West Germany to
see for themselves. There are,
he says, no German scientists
working on the French pro-
gramme, on either a private or
Government basis, and no
secret German financial help.
The only existing joint research-
institute is the St. Louis insti-
tute in Alsace ; the press can
visit it freely, and it is not
concerned with atomic arms at
all. German experts visited the
French rocket-testing ground
at Colomb Bechar once, in
1957, but they have not done
so since. There is some col-
laboration in the missile field
with Nato’s full approval.
“The detailed answers seem
convincing. And the German
press has rightly seen the ex-
changes mainly as a symptom
of the underlying malaise in
Anglo-German relations as a
whole. One element in that
malaise is the habitual readi-
ness of some British news-
papers to interpret every
German word and action in the
light of old suspicions, a readi-
ness naturally inflamed by the
conflict of interest that has
arisen since the Franco-
German grouping came into
being. But there is another
element. Since the beginning
of this year Dr. Adenauer
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune."
WITH NOTHING TO LOSE AND EVERYTHING TO GAIN.
has chosen to make a political
issue of the gnat-bites of indi-
vidual British critics, and to
make use of them in opposing
British policies. The German
press, to its credit, has widely
recognised this and criticised
it in comment on the latest
fracas.”
The “Daily Herald” attack
was only one of many recent
anti - German articles and
comments in the British press.
Reporting the German reac-
tion to these, the “Manchester
Guardian’s” Bonn correspon-
dent notes that “there is an
immense reservoir of goodwill
towards Britain among the
mass of the people of Western
Germany. Most West Germans
have never visualised any kind
of discrimination of feeling
towards their two most im-
portant European allies,
France and Britain.
“The so-called ‘Bonn-Paris
axis’ was born out of the belief
that it was the primary duty
of Germany to establish really
friendly relations with her
nearest neighbor and long-
standing enemy, France.
“It is ironic that the
apparent cause of British press-
attacks on the Federal Republic
is the closeness of Franco-
German relations. It is not
merely that this closeness is
regarded as a duty by most
Germans: it has become
exceedingly irksome to many
of them
“There are plenty of reasons
for this —many more reasons
than exist for poor Anglo-
German relations. German
public opinion is strongly
opposed to French policies in
North Africa and resents the
consequent reduction of the
French contribution to Nato
in Europe.
“The Federal Government
has been deeply disappointed
by General de Gaulle’s refusal
to support Dr. Adenauer’s
demand for a Western summit-
conference at the end of this
month.
“It was not the British but
the French Government which
this summer gravely shocked
German public opinion by pro-
posing that the Oder-Neisse
Line should be recognised and
all German territorial claims
abandoned. It is France again
which has prevented progress
towards the realisation of plans
for a free-trade zone plans
which have the tacit support
of the Federal Ministry of
Economics, of German industry
and of the German trade-
unions.
“There is little sympathy m
Western Germany for France's
nuclear ambitions, and it is the
most supreme irony of all that
the Federal Government should
now be repeatedly accused in
the British press of lending
technical and financial aid to
the French nuclear programme.
“This summer’s ‘diplomatic
crisis’ in Anglo-German rela-
tions was the product of Dr.
Adenauer’s doubts of British
good-faith and resentment of
British criticisms. Doubt and
resentment has not —until the
latest British press-articles —■
extended far beyond the con-
fines of the Chancellor’s Palais
Schaumburg. Perhaps the
only disquieting feature of the
situation is that there has not
yet been the slightest sign of
a relaxation of Dr. Adenauer’s
distrustful attitude.”
London “Time and Tide”
sees British criticism of the
strengthening of links between
Paris and Bonn as “one of
the ironies of history”:
“For 20 years between the
wars British statesmen moaned
that if only France and Ger-
many could compose their
differences, bury their tradi-
tional enmity and live in
friendship together, peace in
Europe would be assured.
Briand and Stresemann met at
Thoiry in 1926 and the whole
Continent and even Great
Britain, its appendage, took
hope. The hope may now be,
at long last, fulfilled —and
listen to the screams of protest
from that very Left which
believed in 1939 that the
German people would rise
against Hitler!
“The trouble is that we in
Great Britain have never made
the effort to understand either
France or Germany, and we
have suffered bitterly for that
sin of omission in the past
60 years. It looks as though
we (and the Americans) are
likely to suffer for it again
unless we are very careful.
“To equate de Gaulle and
Adenauer is simply silly, though
it is one of those attractive
simplifications which, unhap-
pily, have always appealed to


fiaiffi in live
Fuiure
A reminder of how much of Australia is still
in frontier comes with the announcement that
Queensland is proposing to build a road up through
Cape York Peninsula to connect Cooktown with
the big bauxite field at Weipa.
There is a nice historical touch to this projected
linking of the place where Captain Cook repaired
his reef-torn “Endeavour” in 1770, and that strip
of Carpentaria shore where the Dutch in 1606
made the first recorded contact by ship with the
Australian mainland.
But my reason for mentioning it here is rather
to remark upon the ever-enlarging factors that
work in Australia’s development.
Up in that corner of the map there has been
more than one sowing of the seeds of fortune.
Cooktown was thriving for years after 1873, when
some of the richest alluvial gold ever found in
Australia was discovered in the country at the back
of it, along the Palmer River.
How much gold the Palmer really gave has
never been recorded, for much of it was smuggled
away by Asians who swarmed to the field. The
officially reported yield was well over a million
fine ounces.
But the Palmer goldfield, expansive and
generous as it was in its day, is dwarfed by what
opens now in the bauxite deposits further
north. Commonwealth Aluminium Corporation
(COMALCO) has agreed to spend a minimum of
£45-million in the first stages at Weipa. Plans
for full development of an aluminium industry
based on bauxite from Cape York Peninsula and
Arnhem Land involve capital spending of an
estimated £253-million.
This large investment is, in itself, a measure
of our march onward. Where gold at the end of a
pick was once the treasure, we have to
think and act now in terms of hundreds of
millions of pounds in capital for mining and its
related communications.
Well, there it is before us, one of the many
illustrations that could be given of our living
story: the flashing successes of the past, the
incomparably richer future that awaits this country
in strong, courageous hands.
Anglo-Saxon politicians. The
President and the Chancellor
are animated, as are the
peoples which they govern, by
considerations as dissimilar as
could be imagined. That
France and Germany should
compose their differences and
become friends at last is infi-
nitely desirable. It is un-
fortunate if they are forced
into the arms of one another
more-or-less nolens volens —
not because of the support of
their allies but in spite of it.
“But if that has happened at-
least let us foster the friendship
to the benefit of the West as a
whole, rather than yelp with
pained surprise at an event
which was clearly predictable.”
Wool-marketing
Report
'T'he report of Australian
woolgrowers’ representa-
tives Weatherly and Chislett on
their tour of world wool-con-
suming centres is described by
Bradford “Wool Record” as
giving “an interesting appraisal
of current thinking on the sub-
ject of the auction-system and
floor-prices for wool”:
“No one would deny that the
auction-method of wool-dis-
posal has its defects, which are
most pronounced in times of
boom and slump in world
demand. It must be remem-
bered that, even if the auction-
system accentuated the fall in
prices during the last two sell-
ing-seasons, it did the reverse
in the fantastic 1950-51
season —but we heard no com-
plaints from the growers then.
“Most producers and users
of Commonwealth wool wish
to see the auction-system
retained, for, as Mr. Weatherly
and Mr. Chislett observe, it is
the fairest and most efficient
way of deciding who shall get
each lot of wool. The issue is
thus narrowed to the question
of whether some limitation
should be placed on the free
play of the auction-system.
“In New Zealand and South
Africa floor-prices prevent the
market from falling below a
predetermined level; this
expedient cannot be said to
have undergone a really serious
test as yet, but enough has been
seen of the operation of floor-
prices to convince even the
most sceptical that they do
serve to underpin the market
in a period of falling prices
and waning confidence, such
as the trade has just passed
through.
“While it is true that, as the
Australian report states, there
is considerable opposition
among users of wool to the
idea of introducing floor-prices
in Australia, one would have
thought that the people who
should first be consulted are
the growers. In 1951 they
rejected the idea, but it does
not follow that they would vote
the same today.
“An equally controversial
aspect of the report is that con-
cerning price stability. Mr.
Weatherly and Mr. Chislett
found that this is ‘not of such
concern to overseas wool-users .
that they are seeking positive
action to stabilise wool prices.’
Nor did they find that fluctu-
ating prices are the chief cause
of manufacturers turning to
man-made substitutes. The
chemical companies (they say)
have forced wool-processors
‘through the sheer weight and
quality of their promotion’ to
accept man-made fibres, ‘fre-
quently against their inclina-
tion.’
“Here the authors of the
report have failed to distin-
guish between the competition
of the fully synthetic fibres,
which cannot be regarded as
cheap substitutes for wool, and
rayon, which usually is. The
point to be stressed in this con-
nection is that wool must
always be kept at a reasonable
price, so that it can hold its
own against all its rivals. To-
gether with a vigorous policy
of sales-promotion and scien-
tific research, this is the surest
way of ensuring the future of
wool.”
China and the Summit
T 3 ecalling the Quemoy-Matsu
crisis that blew-up last
year when, a U.S.-Russian
summit-meeting seemed likely,
the “Manchester Guardian”
asks editorially: “Does the
Chinese Government feel the
same way about the coming
series of talks at the top
level, and, if it does, has it the
power to do as much to stop
them this year ?
“Its reasons for unhappiness
about a relaxation of tension
are roughly parallel with those
of America’s Asian allies—the
less there is of cold war the
less their senior partner needs
them, and therefore the less
help they can expect from him.
There is a likeness, too, in the
way they can influence him—
not primarily through power
but through making trouble.
“In sheer power China can
obviously do far more to affect
Soviet policy than can South
Korea and Formosa on the
other side, but militarily and


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY UNITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
economically she is still a
paper - tiger in spite of her
immense population. There
are, however, a number of
smouldering crises all round
her which her Government
could blow into flames if it
chose.
“Whether there is to be a
Far Eastern crisis this autumn
probably depends mainly on
Chinese domestic politics, for
it is only a mild exaggeration
to say that the Chinese rulers
are interested in foreign policy
only in so far as they can
thereby further their aims at
home. The crisis over the off-
shore islands last year was
used to help them to impose
people’s communes on the peas-
ants ; this spring they simply
ignored all prudent considera-
tions of diplomacy and pres-
tige abroad to deal with what
to them was a domestic matter
—and Tibet was a very import-
ant one to a Government with
other minorities to manage.
Chairman Mao and Liu, Mr.
Chou En-lai and a number of
other important men have not
been heard of since the end of
June.
“This may be another of
those abrupt turning-points
that have periodically marked
the zigzag course of the Com-
munist revolution in China.
Until we know what they have
been cooking-up we cannot
—London “News Chronicle."
“HEY! BEAU GESTE! YOU’LL GET A MOVE ON IF DE GAULLE DOES
STICK AN A-BOMB UNDER THIS LOT!”
judge whether a crisis will be
useful. But this year Mr.
Khrushchev seems far more
confident in face of Commu-
nists who have let the camp
down with communes that do
not even work properly; he
will probably prefer to go off
to Washington and very
politely—let the Chinese get
on with their crisis (if they
want one) themselves.”
Grivas
From London “New States-
man” :
“Is there a real danger that
the London-Zurich agreements
on Cyprus will be overthrown?
At first glance this seems only
too possible. In Nicosia,
Archbishop Makarios is being
ground between the twin mill-
stones of Turkish-Cypriot
insistence that their Vice-
President be given powers
equal to his own, and the Eoka
rump, which is now campaign-
ing systematically against the
agreements themselves.
“His position, however, is
stronger than it looks. Turkish-
Cypriot pressure is almost
certainly a bluff; for if
Makarios remains firm, and
they renounce the settlement, a
civil-war situation would im-
mediately ensue, and it is un-
likely that their community
would receive the same measure
of support, both from Britain
and Turkey, that it enjoyed
during the emergency. As for
the Eoka intransigents, it is
evident both from public
demonstrations in favor of
Makarios, and from the fact
that they distribute their propa-
ganda only by night, that they
have little popular following.
Indeed, not only the Eoka
rank-and-file but many of its
leaders have made it plain
that they resent Grivas’s criti-
cisms and are determined to
make the agreements work.
“Of course, all this would be
changed should Grivas suc-
ceed in seizing power in
Greece. There is no doubt
that the regime there is widely
unpopular, and he may draw
support from many quarters.
But it is a significant indica-
tion of his weakness that, both
in Greece and Cyprus, he is
angling for Left-wing support.
This is unlikely to be granted
—indeed, the openly Fascist
nature of the regime he en-
visages, let alone his territorial
claims against Albania, make
it almost inconceivable.”
Dragnet Digest
London “Economist”: “Is
there any way in which the
West can transform the whole
Middle East in a single
[economic] operation? If all
plans are to be based on the
supposition that the area can
only be treated as an integrated
unit, then, for the present and
the foreseeable future, the
answer seems to be No. Indi-
vidual countries may, at their
own request, receive help and
use it wisely. Scattered small
projects may bring more direct
benefits than unwieldy large
ones, and they do not rouse so
much suspicion.
“For the present the West
will have to be patient, devot-
ing its efforts to the creation
of an atmosphere of trust and
confidence, until, on its own,
the Middle East attains a posi-
tion of balance between
political and social awakening
on the one hand and economic
progress on the other. If that
happy day comes, then large-
scale economic - development
schemes will not have to be
imposed on the area by well-
meaning outsiders; 4he people
most directly concerned will
know when and how to ask
for what they really need.”
* * •
Peter Wiles, in “Problems cf
Communism’’ : “If a grant is at
least economically worth very
much more than a loan, then
China renders (or rendered
until' her balance-of-payments
crisis in late-1958) more foreign
aid than the U.S.S.R., and
much more than she receives.
For China alone of Communist
countries proceeds mainly by
grant. Her grants also extend
to Mongolia and North Korea,
though the latter do not seem
to have been very grateful.
Moreover, Chinese external
trade runs at about two-thirds
of the volume of Soviet external
trade. So, all in all, China is
a force very much to be
reckoned with, and we do
wrong to speak of the ‘Soviet’
bloc.”
* * *
“Le Figaro” (Paris), as trans-
lated by N.Y. “Herald
Tribune”: “The weakness of
the French position resides in
the absence of a conception
which seems to be anything
other than a desire for power
or prestige. The more we give
the impression that we wish to
be the fourth great Power, the
less world opinion is favor-
able to us. No matter, say
the neo - nationalists; great
Powers cannot pretend to be
popular. But the worst would
be to have the inconveniences
of a great Power without
having the reality.”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
•jACKSON &
.o'suixrvAjv
fcA, PTY LTD 0
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STF.REOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
13 prizes, ranging in size from
a wrist-watch to a vacuum-
cleaner, a lawn-mower and an
electric-stove. (But no refri-
gerator !)
A week later I was back in
the arena again, with a throat-
lozenge in my mouth and my
right thumb twitching nerv-
ously. By some strange pro-
cess my conscience was by
now quite clear on the subject
of my wife’s forgery; it was
obviously just one of those
things any woman would do.
The fact that I had only to
win two more prizes to be in
the duel for the motorcar-TV-
set, of course, had nothing to
do with this change of view-
point.
Anyway, my luck held. It
was touch-and-go, but the
Murphyphone gave me the
verdict at a couple of critical
points, and then I heard Bob
proclaiming me a “champ”
and asking me if I intended to
go on. Go on? I had no
choice —I still hadn’t won a
refrigerator.
T won several more prizes
A and began to wonder
whether I should retire. I
had the feeling the audience
were thinking that way, too.
With this contest I feel that
the audience are with you
when you start your run. They
want to see you reach 15, but
once you get there they don’t
care how soon you’re beaten.
They want to see someone else
have a win. And quite right,
too.
Anyway, you begin to feel
rather a hog. And if your
wife is in the audience she
begins to feel a bit that way,
too. Especially as by now her
identity has somehow become
known, so that each addi-
tional prize brings to her ears
such sfentiments as “Where are
you going to put ’em all,
ducks?” “You’ll have to get
a bigger house,” “You’ll need
a truck to cart ’em away.”
I still don’t know what is
the right stage at which to
retire. I was saved the
embarrassment of deciding by
my old friend Jim Horton,
who, for a short time in 1942,
occupied the bunk next to me
in an Army training-camp.
Reappearing in my life
after an absence of 17 years,
he cut my throat after I had
won my 23rd prize. Unfor-
tunately, his own throat was
slit a few rounds later by an
innocent-looking young lady,
so he didn’t have the pleasure
of repeating the performance
in “The Battle of the Champs.”
My opponent in that event was
Raleigh Mathews, who, I am
pleased to say, drove out of
the Macquarie Auditorium last
Wednesday evening in his
TV-set.
I still haven’t said what it
feels like to be on Bob Dyer’s
“Winner Take All” session.
Well, to begin with, one feels
rather foolish standing in
front of the mike holding a
bell-push of the sort used by
hospital patients when ringing
for the nurse. The only con-
solation is the thought that
one’s opponent ’is probably
feeling just as foolish—though
he certainly doesn’t look it. He
looks efficient, calm and
relentless. And he’s gripping
his bell-push as though it’s a
family heirloom.
'T'he big difference between a
A “Winner Take All” bell-
push and the one in the hos-
pital is that when you push it
no nurse answers. You have
to supply the answer yourself—
and you’ve got only five
seconds in which to do it. Five
seconds is long enough pro-
vided you know the answer
and provided it doesn’t decide
to jump out of your mind
just as you ring the bell.
I’ve had this happen to me,
and I’ve seen it happen to
Raleigh Mathews and other
contestants. If the answer gets
away from you like that, you’re
sunk. You grope at the air
in a frantic effort to bring it
back, but you haven’t a hope
of remembering it in time.
"A steak five-columns wide by twelve-inches deep, please."
“Sorry, Jim,” says Bob.
'‘That’s a free question to
Raleigh.”
The questions asked on the
show cover general know-
ledge, history, geography,
music, literature, brain-teasers,
memory-tests and what-have-
you. I’ve been asked what
sort of questions I like best.
I like any sort so long as I
know the answer and so long
as my thumb works before
Raleigh’s. The contest shouldn’t
be called “The Battle of the
Champs.” “Battle of the
Thumbs” is more like it.
What questions do I like
least? Have you ever heard
of words spelt backwards?
[Footnote by Mrs. Blair: There’s
a new refrigerator in our kitchen,
bought with the proceeds of selling
some of the prizes which dupli-
cated items we already had. More-
over, since hearing my story, Bob
has now added a refrigerator to his
prize-list—Raleigh Mathews won
one; so did Pat Nash, the newest
charnp. Finally, I’m not a forger;
it’s just that when a husband won’t
bestir himself, it’s up to his wife
to do something.]


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
The Last Count
Fine Fighter, Fine Fellow
By PETER MANN
Jack Read, who had fought
the full 70 rounds when
he was buried next to his
parents in Sydney’s
Northern Suburbs Cemetery
the other day, was one of the
first people I met in and around
The Bulletin office when I
started toil as a cadet there
near enough to 20 years ago.
During the raw recruit's
usual bewildering first day,
while Bill Fitz Henry was initi-
ating me to the mysteries of the
Service Department, a gravel-
voiced “Hello. Anyone home?”
was followed through the
Library door by.. Jack’s day-
long, year-round grin, and the
rest of his dapper self. Bill
introduced me to “Jack Read
—our boxing expert. Jack has
all the answers to any ques-
tions you may cop on boxing
or boxers.”
Jack’s voice, like the prover-
bial crosscut-saw ; the grin that
half-a-dozen people’s share of
bad luck never managed to
shift; and a dapper appearance
always rounded-off by these-
days-rare detail of a diamond
tie-pin those were Jack’s
trade-marks . . . those and the
marks of his trade which were
writ large round the rugged
geography of his dial.
The rasping voice probably
owed not a little of its quality
to the steady daily diet of
chain-smoked gaspers which
Jack always claimed he found
dead easy to give-up ; he’d
done it dozens of times. In
days when Jack had already
started his journalistic career
in the United States, but was
still taking a day’s leave-of-
absence occasionally to supple-
ment his income with a brief
return to the boxing-ring, one
of his colleagues on the
Arkansas “Gazette” wrote:
“Jack Read’s idea of train-
ing for a fight is to cut-out
buying cigarettes and smoke
all he can bum from others in
tbe office!”
The dapper cut of his jib
—and the diamond tie-pin—
traced back to days when
boxing-scribes christened him
“Gentleman Jack Read.” Or
even earlier, when he first came
to the mainland from
Tassie, and before he
had earned the same
boxing-scribes' consid-
erable respect ; then,
they termed him “the
pretty little boy from
the Fly Speck.”
TV/fosT of the differ-
ence between the
“pretty little boy” and
the fairly rugged
countenance with
which Jack faced the
world in later years
was effected in one
fight—his last major
bout in America. As
Jack himself recorded
it a few years ago:
“I lost my good
looks in America,
and on my return from
there my mother cried
as she asked: ‘Oh,
Jack, what have they
done to your face?’
My nose still spreads more
than somewhat and my head
is as bald as a billiard-ball, but
beauty is only skin-deep, so T
may be able to skin myself
some day.”
In his latter years, as a
boxing-scribe himself, Jack
tapped-out columns of stuff
about other boxers past and
present, but never got round to
setting down any concerted
account of his own story. But
over the time I knew him,
firstly in the Bully’s Service
Department ; later when I con-
ducted “Sporting Notions,”
and through living most of this
time only a few doors from
him at North Sydney, I
gathered enough fragments to
build-up a sketchy, outline
picture.
Jack Read was born in
Hobart on March 31, 1889.
He reckoned he couldn’t
remember his first fight be-
cause he had so many at school.
At all events, he made his
first public appearance as an
amateur, and won the amateur
bantam and featherweight
championships of the Speck in
1908, when he was 19. Two
years later he added the New
South Wales and Australasian
featherweight titles.
Jack’s parents had him
destined for the Law, and he
made the traditional start on
The smile that nothing could shift.
this career as an articled clerk.
While such an apprenticeship
may lead to noble things, it
is also calculated to teach one
to look after the pennies—
mainly because that is all one
has to look after. With a
clutch of amateur titles under
his wing, Jack came to a
realisation that half-an-hour’s
work in the professional
boxing-ring could earn him
more than a year of similar
effort in a solicitor’s office, and
so Australia lost a potential
legal luminary who most cer-
tainly should have been a
dabster at settling cases out of
court.
Tn November, 1910, not long
after winning the Austral-
asian amateur featherweight
title, Jack had his first profes-
sional fight at Sydney’s old
Redfern Fish Markets —and
lost it.
It was a tough school in
those days. No mollycoddling
the novice professional up
through easy stages of four-
and six-rounders. His profes-
sional debut was a 20-rounder
against one Pat La Brese.
Although ringside critics unani-
mously plumped for Jack as a
clear winner, that wasn’t how
the referee saw it. The ref.,
Jack could always recall, was
Joe Costa, then a leading
middleweight and brother of
that fine swimmer of the day,
Barney Keiran.
For losing over 20 slugging
rounds Jack received £12 —
and reckoned it pretty fair
money. As to the loss itself,
he squared that account when
he k.o.’d La Brese in a return
bout in his home-town, Hobart.
After that the bouts came
thick and fast. Down to Tas-
mania for a string of matches,
and then back to Sydney,
where he stopped Dealer Wells
in five rounds. Then he
k.o.’d Frank O’Grady (who had
outpointed him at the Gaiety
in Hobart), and he was ready
for a scrap every detail of
which was to stick in his
memory for years after.
Assessing it as one fight that
could do a lot to further his
boxing-career, Jack went into
particularly solid training for
his bout with American Dick
Cullen, and when he entered
the Sydney Stadium ring he
was the fittest he had ever been.
From the first bell Jack out-
boxed his more experienced
opponent, and piled up a big
points-lead round after round,
until his own inexperience was
his undoing.
Half-way through the 13th
round one from the blue caught
Jack flush on the chin and
floored him. Instead of staying
down to take full advantage of
the count, he staggered to his
feet immediately, and took a
thorough pasting for the rest
of the round.
Back in his corner his chief
second, Wally Weekes, tried to
pound-in some sage advice:
“If he drops you again, stay
down for nine—or at least until
your head clears.”
Jack went ahead piling up
the points for another couple
of rounds ; then, in the 16th,
another haymaker dropped
him—and again he struggled
straight to his feet.
“Stay down! Stay down!”
yelled Weekes from the corner.


Jack obligingly sank to one
knee —and was promptly dis-
qualified for going down with-
out being hit.
impressed the lesson
’’of this experience most
firmly on Jack’s mind was the
fact that it cost him £7B, being
the difference between the
winner’s agreed 60 per cent,
and the loser’s 40 per cent, of
the purse.
By the same token, it shows
that Jack Read was by this
time moving into fairly sub-
stantial prizemoney in a day
when a quid was a solid gold
sovereign. (A year later he
collected close on £lOOO when
he outpointed another Yank,
Grover Hayes, at Sydney
Stadium —and that was real
money indeed.)
Following the Cullen fiasco,
Jack won his next fight, out-
pointing Sid Sullivan, “The
Waterloo Wasp.” Then he
moved on to the first of four
fights he had w,ith the cracker-
jack lightweight Herb McCoy.
Some contemporary experts
declared that Jack won all four
of these bouts. But it takes
more than a narrow points-
margin to dislodge a reign-
ing champion, and Jack got
the verdict in only one of the
four fights but with it the
Australian lightweight title in
1913.
Not long after beating
McCoy for that title Jack sailed
for the U.S. in company with,
and as a sort of protege of,
Sam Langford, the famed
“Boston Tar Baby.” There-
after he did the rest of his
boxing in America, running-up
an eventual grand-total of
some 60 professional fights.
About the only one of his
American fights I ever heard
him speak of particularly was
the one that contributed mainly
to marring his beauty. This
was a bout with Frankie
Mack at Providence, Rhode
Island, in 1914. Mack was a
pretty useful performer with
his fists, but against Jack he
preferred using his head—-
literally. When he landed one
of these Billygoat Specials it
burst the bridge of Jack’s nOse
wide open—and about that
stage he began thinking of a
future outside the boxing-ring.
He returned to Boston, which
had been his training-head-
quarters with Sam Langford,
and began a journalistic
apprenticeship as assistant
boxing-writer for “Doc” Almy,
sports-editor of the “Post.”
From the “Post” he went
to the Cincinnati “Enquirer,”
and later still became himself
sporting-editor of the Arkansas
“Gazette” in a town lately
much in the news —Little Rock.
'T'he story of Jack’s return to
Australia had its own
touch of humor if only in
retrospect from his viewpoint.
While he was still on the
“Gazette” the Stadiums’ people
in Australia approached him
with a proposition to select a
team of three Yank pugs to
bring here. So in 1920 Jack
headed for home, escorting a
flyweight named K. O. Brown,
bantamweight Eddie Coulon
and featherweight Joe Alvarez.
Not to go too deeply into the
details, each of them lost his
first fight in Australia (although
Jack always declared they “wuz
robbed” by ref. Joe Wallis in
at least one of these affairs).
The bantamweight Coulon then
declared for a holiday at
Katoomba, saying he would be
back “next Monday.”
When Monday brought no
sign of Coulon, Jack went
looking for him, and found the
bird had well and truly flown,
taking the first P. & O. for
London the previous Saturday.
With him went Jack’s cut of
the purse.
In the close-on three decades
since then, Jack Read had
continued to work as a boxing-
journalist, and in general do
a little of this and that. And
for most of those years he was
The Bulletin’s boxing-man.
In between he took more
than his share of hard knocks.
“During my visits to New
York and London,” said Jack,
“and even in Paris, where taxis
chase you onto the footpath, 1
never met with a traffic-
accident. But Sydney traffic
was a tougher proposition.”
Jack took his first count
when he spotted a motor-cycle
a ew stone and took a hiding,
™ Pacific Highway, North
Sydney. He had both egs
bad y fractured in that bout.
Then, only a few years ago,
he came oft second-best to a
■ c . c . ,
car in Sydney s Market Street.
yh e verc jj C {- t hj s time was a
fractured hip.
Between them, these two
tangles left Jack a shade shaky
on his pins and a stone or
two lighter than he had scaled
near enough to half-a-century
earlier, when he was one of the
best lightweight champs Aus-
tralia has had.
, But Jack simply grinned and
F urned his ow n wry joke from
xt :
Many ex-boxers unfortu-
nately seem to §° m the head
as a result of the brain-
scrambling they undergo in the
ring. J have reversed the usual
't 6 0n t e
L '" stea<i - and
* £ as' 'assort
for his .os, fleet-
how T’^a
, • „ t*. , ,
shaping on his pins when l
sighted Jack . approaching. I
never got beyond the twinkle
in his eye and the grin that
lit-up the instant he spotted
you a hundred yards away,
And in any case I was busy
reaching for my cigarettes.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 555
Across
I—Desultorily looking through some feature chant. (8)
s—Who says money? (6)
10— Egotist doesn’t quickly exhaust this relative to the
brow. (7)
11— Diverting telegraphic form of an announcement that
Yours Truly is employing. (7)
12— Green meat (anagram). (9)
14—Robbery luckily includes such a gem. (5)
15— Its art is not without such
featuies. (6)
16 — Mounts again about 100 arms
and legs. (8)
20 — How the Holmes might have
regarded the Watson vault? (8)
21— A child with 40 winks to
snatch. (6)
23 —Bayer which makes the noise
subside. (5)
25 — An intruder in the lion’s den
can love movement. (9)
26 Alien backing of rule. (7)
27 — Raging gasp of Aries. (7)
29 — Two people drew level. (6)
30 — One might be taken-in by this
tidier mother. (3-5)
Down
1 — High-sounding and pompous
explosive in the role of the
muscular twitch. (9)
2 Erupt i o n s dismissed by
spinners? (9)
3 A nampy-pamby pops-up. (3)
4 Pinch the Spanish metal. (6)
6 Whirlwind journey taken with a
considerable figure. (11)
7 He keeps on trying Treves. (5)
8— Royal boys drink up. (5)
9 Gasp over the female wild-
cat, (7)
13 —Transformed sex empire to talk
“off the cuff.” (11)
17— Repairer’s admission that he’s
an incompetent beggar. (9)
18— Backer to take a “nightcap”
with malt-liquor added. (9)
19— Injuriously stretches musical
sounds which express the
steamer’s interior. (7)
22 Rode into a European river. (4)
23 — The enemy’s partly alienated
biographer of Crusoe? (5)
24 Nero’s disorderly tongue. (5)
28—Gippslander’s address fills me
with love. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 554.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Cutting Postage Costs
An immediate effect of the
announcement of increased
postal charges has been to set
business firms looking for ways
of saving on postage.
The Melbourne Chamber of
Commerce has already out-
lined a plan by which busi-
nesses generally can effect sub-
stantial reductions. Modem
business, the chamber declared,
should scrap the old-fashioned
sequence of “order-invoice-
statement-receipt” each for-
warded separately—and adopt
a method involving only “state-
ment-and-invoice” one way
and “cheque - needing -no -
receipt” the other.
Invoices should either be
forwarded with goods delivered
or sent with the next statement.
Under the proposed new
second-class-mail rates this
would save sd. postage. Cus-
tomers should pay by cheque
crossed “Account Payee Only.”
A receipt would then be un-
necessary, thus saving sd.
postage and 3d. duty-stamp.
Total saving in postage and
duty-stamps would be Is. Id.
on each such transaction,
shared by supplier and cus-
tomer —an appreciable amount,
particularly where many small
transactions are involved.
The chamber’s suggestions
are not new, of course. This
streamlined procedure has been
used for some time by pro-
gressive firms. Most businesses,
however, have been reluctant
to depart from ordinary pro-
cedure, evidently believing that
a change of billing-methods is
unsettling to customers.
Similarly, although a few
firms try to discourage cus-
tomers from asking for receipts
—they use an account-form,
portion of which is retainable
by the customer, and post a
receipt only upon written
request —receipts are still in
general use.
However, the postage in-
creases will certainly stimulate
the streamlining of transaction-
procedure, especially when the
large saving in stationery and
handling-costs is realised. The
result may very well be that
instead of raising its revenue
the P.M.G.’s Department will
lose.
A secondary effect, which
will not concern the Federal
Government but may seriously
embarrass State Treasurers, will
be the falling-off in stamp-
duty. A couple of years ago
the Victorian Government
found, when it increased stamp-
duty on receipts covering pay-
ments from £2 to £lOO, that
many firms took steps to avoid
issuing receipts. That tendency
will now be further encouraged.
—Wusslean (Vic.).
Careers in Philanthropy
“Senex” takes me to task for
stating that the paid organiser’s
contribution to fund-raising is
over in a few weeks (B.
19 / 8 / ’59).
The organiser to whom I
referred said that he would
spend six weeks living in the
country parish concerned,
working full-time to organise
the campaign ; thereafter he
would be available to answer
queries, etc., from his Sydney
office. A fee of £l2OO for such
a service is hardly a “just price”
in any Christian sense of the
term.
“Senex” also disagrees with
my claim that the increased
income comes from the
parishioners’ pockets. His
“nominals” are apparently not
parishioners at all. He tells
us they “want all the services a
church can give” and then goes
on to confine their church
participation to “M.C.8.5.Y.”
(marriages, christenings, etc.).
He can’t have it both ways:
and in any case a fee or offer-
ing is usually associated with
most of the services he lists.
I have no objection to a
parishioner being asked to set
himself a “giving-target” and
to give this regularly. But I do
object to the payment of an
extravagant fee to an outside
organiser and to a method of
fund-raising which uses psycho-
logical techniques to exploit
human pride and foster un-
worthy emulation.
In St. Matthew’s Gospel we
read: “When thou givest alms,
thou shalt not so much as let
thy left hand know what thy
right hand is doing, so secret is
thy almsgiving to be.”
It might be argued that
church contributions don’t
come under the heading of
“alms” (charitable gifts), but
I suggest that the principle
quoted above is a safer guide
for a Christian congregation in
the matter of church contri-
butions than the amoral prin-
ciples of modern selling-
methods, no matter how suc-
cessful they may be in separat-
ing a man from his cash.—
Pin (N.S.W.).
Animal Migrants
Most of our restrictions on
animal-migrants are obsolete
and remain in force simply be-
cause no one has ever got
round to revising the schedule.
Take the case of the chin-
chilla —a harmless little fur-
bearing animal which might
well be the means of putting
numerous country folk on the
road to affluence. It’s not a
disease-carrier, nor in any way
to be feared as a New Aussie.
In the past five years it has
gained admittance to Ger-
many, England, Scotland,
Sweden, Ireland and South
Africa, though formerly ex-
cluded from those parts. In the
U.S. the chinchilla-ranch busi-
ness has topped the multi-
million-dollar level. But Can-
berra still says no multi-million
chinchilla business here.
Result? When the Missus
needs a chinchilla-fur or -coat
she has to pay heavily for the
imported article, and good
Australian pounds go overseas.
Why not let the chinchilla
in? Why not let him get busy
here earning money for Aus-
tralians? — Vet Sci (Q.).
Australia and N.Z.
I give the lie to the Sydney
“Daily Mirror” contributor
who said that “New Zealanders
intensely dislike Australia or
anything pertaining to it.”
I have heard this silly talk
before; a viewpoint born of
insularity. One has to live or
work in both countries to know
that the people of Australasia
are friendly disposed, one to
the other. True, we differ in
characteristics. A§ a New
Zealander I believe we might
profit by studying Australian
behavior ; and maybe Australia
might also learn something
from its younger brother of the
Pacific.
We in N.Z. might assimilate
some of the friendliness and
courtesy so pleasantly im-
pressed on me during my
latest visit to Sydney. I found
that the man-in-the-street, the
tram- and bus-conductor, go
to no end of trouble to help
the visiting stranger. There is
courtesy for the elderly and
compassion for the afflicted. I
have mentally labelled this
“Any rebate on parking-fines ?”


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT WARD GREEN late of
Tamworth in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ELIZA-
BETH McINTOSH GREEN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3372 of 1958
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the" Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by 23rd November 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from ICETON, FAITHFULL
& BALDOCK, of 28 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction
in Matrimonial Causes.
TO STANLEY WINGFELL BONNAR
FRENCH late of East Camp Post Office
Cooma North New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that ELIZABETH
FRENCH has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2411 of 1959 under South Australian
law on the ground of desertion without
just cause and excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Build-
ing Macquarie Street Sydney by the
18th November 1959 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
NOEL DENNIS & WALTON, Solicitors,
of 375 George Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Friends
GOLDING. —WOULD anyone knowing
the whereabouts of GRACE VICTORIA
GOLDING (formerly SINCLAIR), oi-
lier children EILEEN and STANLEY,
believed to have gone to Adelaide during
World War I. Would they please com-
municate with MR. J. A. SINCLAIR, 6
Buckland Avenue, Mosman Park, W.A. ?
Relatives in England are anxious to find
the above missing persons.
COULD ALL PERSONS having any
knowledge of the whereabouts of
HUBERT HARFORD HANTON, some-
times known as Jim Hanton, and some-
times known as Jim Harford Hanton,
please communicate with the under-
signed.—SlMMONS WOLFHAGEN SIM-
MONS & WALCH, Solicitors, 86 Collins
Street, Hobart.
friendliness an. offshoot of
Henry Lawson mateship.
The destinies of Australia
and Maoriland are linked to-
gether. This mateship is vital,
for, after all, courtesy is a
compass. We might need this
compass in years to come,
when, as is„very possible, we
might be bushed in a forest
of millions of yellow leaves. —
Pat Lawlor (N.Z.).
Penalties for Juveniles
Can’t agree with C. Clarke
(B. 12/8/’59) that any Aus-
tralian judge or magistrate
would regard a 15-year-old lad
without previous convictions
as being beyond redemption ;
but in any case “C.C.” has the
bull by the tail. I wasn’t
criticising the magistrate, who
was only doing his job ; I was
hitting at the law which made
suspension of driving-licence
automatic, although in this
case the lad had never held one
—he wasn’t old enough.
Often a magistrate is faced
with the alternatives of refus-
ing to record a conviction, or
convicting and recording a
savage penalty. In this case
the magistrate saw fit to order
the lad's release from the insti-
tution after two months, so
apparently he didn’t regard him
as a very serious menace to
society.
It is savage to condemn such
a 15-year-old to a possible life
of laboring as this law does.
A much saner and far more
humane sentence would be
suspension of licence with
permission to apply at the age
of 20. The law could also give
the Commissioner of Police the
right to refuse a licence if he
thought fit, and could grant the
applicant an equal right of
appeal to the judiciary.
Such a sentence could come
under “C.C.’s” heading of
“discipline in the formative
years, ’ and it could be severe
discipline at that. Continuing
that disciplinary action to the
age of 32> knowing that its
effects could be crippling for an
entire litetime, is savageness in
a refined way. Any country
adhering to such a law is badly
in need of the psychiatrists
“C.C.” thinks are so readily
available. Pieter Nuyts
(W.A.)
Letting Them Eat Cake
Former French Prime
Minister Jules Moch’s remark
at the Hamburg Socialist con-
ference that “the workers in
Europe eat better than Marie
Antoinette” (“Uncabled Addi-
tions” 5/8/’59) is hard to
credit. If he was right, then
the Queen of France must have
fed a lot worse than the average
English worker of her time.
Sir Arthur Bryant devoted
several pages to the dietary of
British workers in his study of
the Regency Period, The Age
of Elegance (pp. 154-60). Sir
Frederick Eden, who made a
survey of the state of the poor
in the “famine” years 1795-96,
“But, officer, I'm only GOING one Way.”
thus analysed the budget of a
Leicester woolcomber, with
two children:
Out of an income of £47 p.a.,
made-up of his own, his wife’s
and his eldest son’s earnings and
an £ll p.a. grant from the poor-
law guardians, [he] was able to
buy weekly 101 b. butcher’s meat,
21b. butter, 3 Jib. of cheese, 19
pints of milk, as well as potatoes,
vegetables, sugar, beer. He was
not even a particularly industrious
man, for he used to spend several
days a month in the alehouse,
lamenting the hardness of the
times.
Another case cited by Eden
was that of a Manchester dyer
who earned, with his wife's
help, only £42 p.a. Yet he
bought five pounds of meat
weekly.
Even in the workhouse [writes
Bryant] meat usually figured in the
dietary three or four days a week.
When six Lancashire weavers were
consigned by the Home Office to
Cold Bath Fields prison on a
charge of treason, they were allowed
between them, for breakfast, 6
lib. loaves of bread, 21b. of
butter, 21b. sugar, one of tea. For
dinner: pork, vegetables, potatoes,
and a pot of porter apiece. On
another day they were given a leg-
of-mutton 13Jlb. in weight.
Some idea of the London
workers’ dietary can be won from
the capital’s feeding-statistics. In
1807 the London population, of
just over a million, consumed, on
its market returns alone, 110,000
bullocks, 776,000 sheep and lambs,
210,000 calves, 300,000 pigs, 700,000
quarters of wheat, 16,6001 b. butter,
21,000,0001 b. cheese. It also ate
the fruit and vegetables of 14,000
acres of intensively-cultivated
market-garden land, fertilised by
dung from the London streets, and,
in the same period, consumed
10,131,000 barrels of beer, ale and
porter, each containing 36 gallons,
and 11,146,752 gallons of spirits.
The division of this great quan-
tity. of food was left to the law
of supply and demand, but only a
small proportion can have been
consumed by the well-to-do. Most
must have found its way into
working-class homes.
There are, of course, many
food-products in common use
today that were either unknown
then or, as with perishable
tropical foods, could not be
marketed in Europe. Refrigera-
tion and modern transport have
given the mid-20th-century
European a greater choice of
foods than his early-19th-
century ancestor, but this choice
is not basic to good nourish-
ment. — Farinmail (N.S.W.).
Phony Rates
In all the outcry against the
proposed increases in postal
charges, emphasis seems to be
on bulk postage. This would
certainly be a burden to all
newspapers ; but little is said
about the increases in charges
for local phone-calls and the
iniquitous £2 on rental for
private phones.
The increase will be Id. —
to 4d. a call —but do phone-
users realise that even at the
present rate they aren’t getting
their calls at 3d. each, or any-
thing like it?
Take the case of one house-
holder. His latest account tor
local calls was £2 19s. 3d., or
237 calls at 3d. But add
£6 6s. 3d. for rental, and the
cost per call is slightly more
than 9d. Is it any wonder that
he rings complaints when he
gets a wrong number —which
is often enough? When your
next-door neighbor wants to
make a call and offers you
6d. for it, don’t refuse it on
the ground that calls are oniy
3d.!
Now for the extra rental
slug. The abovementioned
subscriber has had a phone
for four years at £l2 12s. 6d.
a year—quite a handsome
profit for the department on
the cost of the instrument, even
allowing for maintenance. Just
how many calls would be
necessary to reduce the rate
to anything like 3d.? Perhaps
Silliac, Sydney University's
electronic brain, might be able
to supply the answer. — Phony
(N.S.W.).


end of the scale, is Lorraine
Hare, winner of the Sun Show-
girl competition, who was also
there to greet us at the
barbecue-lunch we enjoyed on
the showground.
We moved on, passing R. G.
Casey’s property, to Paken-
ham East. Here we stopped
at the depot of the Victorian
Fruit and Cool Stores Co-op.,
Ltd., where we were greeted
by Don Williamson, chairman
of directors, and Bill Harris,
chief packing-instructor from
the Department of Agriculture,
together with Les Cochrane,
M.L.A. for Gippsland West.
Apple-packing plays a great
part in fruit-marketing and, at
Pakenham, the schoolchildren
are taught the right way to do
the job. This instruction has
a double purpose: first, it
means that boys and girls leave
school fitted to take a commer-
cial job in the industry if they
so desire ; secondly, it ensures
a constant supply of good
packers. We watched one
demonstration of packing
carried-out by pupils and then
another given by trained
packers, some of whom think
nothing of packing 120 cases
a day.
Problem of a Country Town
We were to spend the first
night of the tour at Warragul,
gateway to the Latrobe Valley,
64 miles east of Melbourne
and set in the midst of rich,
undulating country. With its
45in. rainfall, Warragul is
primarily famous for dairying
—it supplies a third of Mel-
bourne’s milk. But there are
other farming activities: beef-
cattle, fat lambs and poultry
are raised and fruit and vege-
tables are also grown. The
township, with its wide, tree-
lined streets, lies in a valley
between the Strezlecki. Ranges
and the Baw Baw Mountains.
It’s the centre of various tourist-
resorts, connected by a network
of excellent roads and possess-
ing a sportsground which is
possibly one of the most-used
arenas in the Commonwealth.
This sportsground consists of
two ovals, used for football,
cricket, motor-cycling, night-*
trotting and greyhound-racing.
It is also the scene of the largest
one-day agricultural show held
in the State, which attracts an
attendance of about 15,000
people.
Entertained to a buffet-
dinner by Amos Munro, presi-
dent of Warragul Shire, and
members of his council, we
were told something about the
remarkable progress of the
township—which in 1892 was
valued at £13,911 n.a.v., with
a rateable revenue of £713,
and last year was revalued at
£387,250 n.a.v., with a revenue
of £77,459. However, W. A.
Green, president of the Warra-
gul and District Development
Association, took these statistics
as a background for his' talk
to us on Warragul’s need
for industry to absorb growing
teenage population, as well as
holding the adults.
The problem which faces
this thriving community is that
it has, in effect, outgrown its
own resources, and, until some
alternative means of livelihood
Ferntree Gully - Mrs. A R Creswick
Dandenong Mr. R. Steele
Berwick Agricultural Society
Pakenham Cool Stores Association
Warragul - Night
Ellinbank - Dairy Research Station
Newry - Mr. D. R Manson
Sale Night
Perry Bridge Strathfieldsaye Estate
Yarram Agricultural Society
Mr D Moore
Korumburra Night Butter Factory
Bena l. H & A. H Castle
Tooradm Mr. R. M. Metheral!
Moorooduc Mr. G. J R Coles
Morningron Night
Frankston Mr R G Watson-
Mt. Eliza N.orman Lodge
Cranbourne Melbourne Hunt Club
Route of R.A.S. Tour, sponsored by Shell.
can be attracted to the area, is
bound to lose a high proportion
of its most useful citizens. Yet,
for a township with the natural
advantages of Warragul
centre of an area which must
be one of the richest in the
Commonwealth at a time
Stud breeding-ewes at R. and K. Metherall’s Leighlands
Cheviot Stud, Tooradin.
when Australian secondary
industry is doing all it can to
expand, the problem is surely
one which will solve itself
when potential investors get to
know of the advantages the
district can offer.
The next morning we paid
a visit to the sportsground,
where the Agricultural Society
had arranged a programme of
trotting and greyhound-racing
and a demonstration of
handling sheepdogs. The ladies
in our party meanwhile visited
the West Gippsland Hospital.
We moved on from Warragul
to the Ellinbank Dairy Re-
search Station, seven miles
away, and established in 1951
by the. Victorian D. of A. to
conduct research into all
aspects of dairy-husbandry.
The property of 365 acres
has been sown-down to perma-
nent pasture and subdivided
into 17 main paddocks. Since
pastures represent the greater
part of the cow’s diet, research
at Ellinbank is mostly con-
cerned with improvement and
utilisation of pastures.
In an experiment at present
being carried-on here, more
than 90 cows, all of them
identical twins, are being used
for investigation of the advan-
tages that might follow the
introduction of a small ration
of concentrate at different
stages of a cow’s lactation.
A. C. Doery, officer-in-
charge, explained to us that
the station is to be divided
into four complete dairyfarms.
Of these, Farms A and C are
at present functioning and
carrying herds of identical twins
for use in research-projects,
Only by the use of identical
twins can valid results be ex-
pected in any tests carried-out
in this type of research, so
at present more than 100 sets
of these twins are carried on
the station. N. W. Godfrey,
assistant research-officer, and
O. Hore, farm-manager, also
spoke to us about the work
done on the station.
We left Ellinbank and,
returning to the Princes High-
way, passed through the
Latrobe Valley. This area,
mainly industrial and relying
on deposits of brown-coal and
pulpmills for its prosperity,
gives a mighty picture of Aus-
tralia’s future potential.
For those interested in
figures, it should be mentioned
that the main seam of brown-
coal —800 ft. thick is the
thickest in the world. The
seam at present being worked
is 27 miles long and consists
of three layers, each 200 ft.
thick. As we passed through
Trafalgar, Moe, Morwell,
Traralgon and other town-
ships our whole impression
was one of bustling, restless
activity. Here, before our eyes,
Australian industry was burst-
ing into life. Here, in the
prosperous Latrobe Valley, lies
the future of Victoria.
“Home of the Wild-duck”
We came to Wanrua the
aboriginal word for “home of
the wild-duck”—about an hour
behind schedule. This property,
which comprises D. R. Manson
and Son’s Poll Hereford,
Jersey, Large White Pig and
Welsh Corgi-dog studs, lies
near Newry. We had to make


I
i
ARC
.LDMBSH
GALVANISED
FIELD FENCING
Good fencing plays a vital role in
protecting your stock, that's why
Weldmesh fencing is gaining
acceptance as Australia's most
stockproof fence it's stronger
and longer lasting than other
types of fencing.
Electrically welded joints
are snag proof, strong and
rigid And important, too, you'll
find Weldmesh the easiest, quickest
fence to erect and strain.
Choose from 5, 6 & 8 line fencing
in either medium or heavy gauge.
tor further details contact your local storekeeper
ENGINEERING CO. PTY. LTD.
Sales Office: 528 Ballarat Rd., Sun-
shine, MM 2651, and associated
A.R.C. companies at Sydney, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart,
A Member of the Group of Companies
! a diversion because the coach
was too heavy to negotiate the
bridges on the short route.
That morning the Manson
j family they first settled in
Newry, on land still owned
by them, in 1851 —had gained
an additional member, and
Donald Manson came in for a
bit of chiacking about the
arrival of his first grandchild.
We were given a fabulous
lunch in the homestead and
then taken out to see the Poll
Herefords.
This stud was started in
1954. Until very recently
the top sire was Kildrummie
Samson 3rd, but he had been
destroyed a few weeks before
our visit, and the present
senior sire is Deepfields Mel-
drum, which was first in its
class at last year’s Melbourne
Royal.
The pedigrees of both Sam-
son and Meldrum trace back
to two notable imported sires ;
Trumode Domino 16th and
Beau Domino 2nd. In addition
to beef-raising, there are seven
share-dairyfarms on the pro-
perty, with over 600 dairy-
cattle. The lersey stud com-
prises 40 milkers, headed by
Belgonia First Greek and
Rochester Tester 3rd, which
Donald Manson selected on a
trip he lately made to the isle
of lersey.
The cattle we looked-over
included the team for this
year’s Royal: two heifers,
Wanrua Favourite 2nd and
Wanrua Mabel Rollo, for the
under-18-months class; and
one steer, Wanrua Dick (under-
-12-months). Desmond Penne-
father, an authority on beef-
cattle, gave a talk on the
correct way to judge Poll Here-
fords, and, although himself
interested only in the “horns,”
had some good words to say
for the breed.
Leaving Wanrua, we headed
for the city of Sale, where we
were to spend the second night
of the tour. Sale is recognised
as the capital of Gippsland
and, apart from Dandenong at
| the western gateway, is the
only proclaimed city in the
province. The centre of a rich
mixed-farming, grazing and
irrigation area, it is also the
administrative and educational
hub of the surrounding district,
Mayor W. Stephenson and
his councillors, together with
j the shire-presidents of Avon
(F. Maynard), Maffra (V. F.
Fawaz) and Rosedale (R.
Gerrand) and their councillors,
greeted us at a buffet-dinner,
held in the magnificent civic
centre. Also present were land-
owners from the surrounding
district and the officer-com-
manding the R.A.A.F. estab-
lishment, which is just outside
the city.
Young Farmers at
Stratfieldsaye
Next morning our first visit
was to Dr. H. C. Disher’s
historic property, Stratfieldsaye,
near Stratford. The property,
on the shores of Lake Welling-
ton, is one of the earliest
Gippsland stations, ranking
sixth or seventh in order of
occupation.
It was originally taken'-up
by W. O'Dell Raymond in
1842, when he brought 8000
sheep over the mountains from
N.S.W. Originally 65,000 acres,
the station is now about 5500
acres. Its name comes from the
seat of the Dukes of Welling-
ton in Hampshire (Eng.).
The homestead was first built
in 1848 from timber cut on
the place by hand; bricks for
the chimneys were made from
clay at the lake’s edge. The
second portion of the house
was built just over 100 years
ago ; both these original sec-
tions still form part of the
present homestead, which was
completed in 1879. The
original roof of short-length
iron—which was brought by
packhorse from Port Albert —
is still in use.
In 1856, the property was
bought by L. Bolden ; he was
followed by W. Boyd Cun-
ningham, who, in 1869, sold to
W. H. Disher. Dr. H. C.
Disher, the present owner,
took-over the property on the
death of his father in 1944.
Before that he had been in
medical practice and had served
overseas in Wars I and 11,
ending as a brigadier, with
C.B.E. and E.D.
A large part of the present
stock on the station is de-
scended from the original
sheep of 1842 and the cattle
bought in 1869. These cattle
came down from Twofold Bay
<N.S.W.), bearing Benjamin
Boyd’s brand —and this brand
is still kept by the station. A
registered Hereford stud was
formed in 1943, mainly with
Golf Hill blood. Present sire
is Coliban Cadjer, bought two
years ago for 900 guineas.
Between 4000 and 5000
medium-wool Merinos are
shorn annually. The rams
(Continued on page 51)


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
HAY-BALERS OUTMODED?
From J. P. KELLY
T'Yroughts come and we are
to see them go. What
they teach us is mainly related
to circumventing the next one.
But in South Australia these
last two droughts—l9s7 and
1959 must certainly have
taught us more than any
normal season about supple-
mentary and subsistence feed-
ing. At this interesting time
we are all learning how stock
respond to the variety of fodder
that most of us have only
recently learned to conserve.
During the run of good years
we bought equipment for
making and stacking hay and
silage and put-up silos to store
oats, etc. Broadly speaking,
we often used what we con-
served wastefully and uneco-
nomically. The whole thing
needs revaluation.
Old methods —of cereal-hay
fed long or chaffed; grain
stored mostly in bags; and,
in more favored districts, a
little silage and meadow-grass
—make interesting comparison
Most sheep-owners are
aware that Caseous
Lymph - Adenitis, or
C.L.A. Disease as it is
popularly called, is con-
tracted through wounds
and cuts becoming
infected with bacteria
living in the soil.
The most obvious way
of reducing the risk of
C.L.A. Disease is to
reduce the number of
open wounds or cuts
indicted on lambs and
sheep, and this is just
one of the many reasons
why more and more
breeders are using the
Elastrator Rubber Ring
method of castrating,
marking and tailing.
It is a proven fact that
lambs marked and
tailed by the Elastrator
Rubber Ring method
are less susceptible to
the many dangers of
shock, setback and
disease which frequently
follows the old-fashioned
use of the knife.
with the many new methods
which fit, jigsaw-fashion, into
our present routine. Today
cereal-hay has given way to
baled pasture-hay. Thousands
of acres of oats are grown for
grain and stored in silos. The
practice of self-feeding stand-
ing crops of oats and barley is
becoming more popular; it
has enormous potential in
South Australia, where there’s
usually a lack of summer rain.
Development of silage-
making machinery has brought
a boom in this aspect of con-
servation. Almost all the hard
work has been taken from
harvesting silage, while the
technique (developed in the
last few months) for efficient
self-feeding of silage has solved
the greatest problem associated
with it.
The practice of mowing and
windrowing pasture-hay and
grazing early in the autumn has
a big future, especially during
a run of good years, when our
drought-reserves are high
enough. A variation of this
practice is worth mention. If
harrows are dragged behind
the mower a clover-cut will roll
into small, round bales, which
stand bad weather better than
a windrow. On some pro-
perties, too, there’s something
in leaving round bales and
making loose haystacks in the
paddocks for later self-feeding.
High-protein sheep-nuts have
found a market, and this prin-
ciple of feeding may develop
greatly in the next few years.
For drought-relief it’s a good
idea to buy feed-barley—a lot
of us have learned that sheep
do well on an almost entire
ration of whole-grain. Finally,
spraying old, unpalatable and
unnutritious pasture and
stubble with urea and molasses
opens-up many new possibilties
in normal times —as well as in
a drought, when the scarcity
of bulky roughage can be a
limiting factor.
“Ignore him, my dear — he's an all-heef type."
Except for leaving round
bales in the paddocks, on this
property near Tarlee (S.A.) we
have used all these methods
during the last six months. So
our moment of revaluation has
come.
From my experience I’d say
that baling hay is an outmoded,
expensive and unnecessary pro-
cedure. In view of capital
invested in this direction, this
may seem a startling statement
to make ; but it’s borne-out by
the success achieved with self-
fed silage ; fed in the paddock
it was made in, at a fraction
of the cost of hay —and it’s so
easy to make good silage and
so hard to make and keep good
hay.
I used to think that hay was
a necessity for feeding breed-
ing-cows during a period of
short grazing in the winter.
But urea and molasses can
easily and cheaply be used to
hold the cows in better condi-
tion to stand a lean tilde in a
normal July. Moreover, urea
and molasses can even be used
to spray straw-stacks during
the lean time.
The regrowth after silage-
making, because of the earlier
cut, js usually a lot better than
after haymaking. Mowing and
windrowing of hay is a wonder-
ful practice if not done with
over-mature growth, but, be-
cause of its disturbance to re-
seeding, it should be restricted
to a paddock earmarked for
the following year’s short-
fallow or ley crop.
For the long-term drought-
reserve and this must be
made-up as quickly as possible
—a large stock of oats must be
stored and a number of big indi-
vidual heaps of silage spaced
strategically over the property,
after due consideration regard-
ing watering-facilities, drain-
age, danger of erosion, number
of flocks usually run, etc. For
normal seasonal use there
should be, say, three-months’
supply of oats, and as many
medium-sized silage-heaps in ast
many different paddocks as
possible. Best not to burn any
stubble until there’s a good
supply of roughage on hand.
Carefully placed, these stacks
could have great value for
shelter, and they grow faster
than trees and don’t need
fencing.
My final words of advice
are: Don’t sell the old binder.
It was very useful for cutting
cereal-hay in 1957, and some
chaff and the odd sheaf may
come in handy for the house-
cows and ponies.


REPLACE
untidy, harder-to-erect dropper posts
with easier-to-erect
'STAR' STEEL POSTS
Save time and money in erection time and labour. No more decaying
wooden posts or risk of damage from fire or insects.
Hylands ‘Star’ Steel Fence Posts are made from highest grade
Australian steel to a proven “Y Bar” design for maximum strength
and rigidity and are easily erected even in the toughest ground.
Available in standard lengths and with standard punchings ‘Star’
Steel Fence Posts come wired in handy bundles of ten.
Check the cost . . . know the simplicity of using ‘Star' Steel Posts
with any types of wire fences!
Your stock and station agent can supply any quantity for just
4/014 each, in the popular 5' 6” size, F.O.R. Newcastle or Sydney.
BF IT'S
JLH9IU S/18
★ FENCING WIRE * WIRE NETTING * HINGED JOINT FENCING
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., 20 O'Connell St., Sydney, N.S.W.
7163/83/59
were obtained from Austin,
Wanganella, and, more recently,
Mawallock studs.
The highlight of our visit
was a series of demonstrations
of animal-husbandry, given by
boys and girls of the Senior
Young Farmer movement.
For the last three years a
school has been conducted at
Strathfieldsaye, where 10 boys
and two girls come into resi-
dence for the best part of a
week and receive instruction
from selected tutors from the
D. of A. and local graziers.
These boys and girls who
took part in the demonstra-
tions were pupils who had
lately had one of these courses
of practical instruction. Under
the direction of the Sale Tech-
nical School, a shearing-class
is also conducted annually on
the station, with former Aus-
tralian-champion shearer H.
Salter in charge. This is
only a part of the service
which Dr. Disher gives to the
community in return for the
goodly heritage of his historic
station.
We stopped for lunch at
Yarram, terminus of the South
Gippsland Highway, 136 miles
from Melbourne. At the offices
of the South Eastern Milk
Products factory we were
greeted by C. H. Forster,
president of the Yarram Agri-
cultural and Pastoral Society,
and by his councillors and
members, and by officials of
the S.E.M.P.
Dairy-cattle and Landrace
Pigs
After lunch we moved to
Tooloonook, settled by the
Moore family over 100 years
ago and now run as a family
partnership under the name
J. Moore and Co. by members
of the fourth generation.
Most of the land is used for
dairying, and this year about
1200 cows are being milked on
the seven farms.
A large portion of the pro-
perty was once known as
Bourke’s Morass and was con-
sidered unworkable ; but when
it was drained it became most
productive, with a high poten-
tial carrying-capacity.
Tooloonook was originally
known for its horses, which
were reared and broken-in
there as remounts for the
Indian Army. Later, beef-
cattle and sheep were run on
the station. Then, in 1922,
dairying was started, and since
then has become increasingly
important, until today pro-
duction of butterfat has passed
the 200,0001 b. mark, while pro-
duction of whole-milk has
reached several thousand
gallons.
Des Moore showed us over
No. 7 Farm, which he runs,
and which, with about 250
cows in milk, carries one of
the largest herds in the State.
Here we watched a herd-testing
demonstration given by Jim
Douglas. C. Graham, presi-
dent of Alberton Shire, and
C. H. Forster were present
during our visit to this pro-
perty and laughed at the antics
of a number of the party who
tried to sample the “Calfe-
taria.”
Ron Moore, of No. 3 Farm,
showed us a pair of Landrace
pigs which the family intend
to exhibit at the Royal. The
boar, Leedstown Erot 2nd, was
bred by C. F. Byron, of North-
down, Devonport (Tas.), and
was the biggest boar from the
heaviest litter of any breed
born in Australia ; the sow,
Forest Holm Ally 13th, was
bred by Graene Ross Davis,
of Deloraine (Tas.). This rare
breed, originating in Denmark,
is ideal for bacon-production
and will undoubtedly become
more popular in Australia as


::»v
•xV
m
ftBMHHS
m
You can get a better
return by using
Shell
FIELD TESTED
AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS
Your local agent can supply your needs now. See him
when you're next in town.
SHELL
m
AGRICULTURAL
CHEMICALS
Shell Chemical
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. (Inc. in Victoria)
- Melbourne • Sydney • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth • Hobart
An Associate of the Shell Co. of Aust. and registered user of its Trade Marks.
5C5939/HP
soon as more become avail-
able.
Korumburra
At Korumburra, nestling in
the foothills of the Strezlecki
Ranges, 70 miles east of Mel-
bourne, we were guests of the
shire president—Bob Ritchie —
councillors and citizens of
Korumburra at a buffet-dinner
held in the amenities-room at
the Korumburra and District
Co-operative Butter Factory,
and afterwards of the Agricul-
tural and Pastoral Society at
their annual ball, which they
had thoughtfully delayed for
a week.
Next morning we were
shown round the butter-
factory by L. Duncomb, the
chairman ; A. E. McKenzie,
who has followed his father’s
footsteps as g.-m. of the fac-
tory ; and Leo Brady, who’s
in charge of the laboratory.
The co. has developed a
wide range of products:
whole-rifilk, butter, cheese,
roller-dried buttermilk, skim-
milk powders, Glymilk (for
bread), spray-dried skim-milk,,
lactic casein, sweet cream,
mock cream and edible casein.
We were shown-over the whole
factory, including the new
edible-casein plant, which is
just about to be opened.
Next stop was Clarendon,
L. H. and A. H. Castle’s
property at Bena. Here —it’s
probably the most intensely
farmed area in the district —
is a 90-acre dairyfarm and
piggery, where pedigreed stock
have been bred for the last 25
years. About 70 pedigreed
Jerseys are kept on the place,
and last year 30 calves and
100 pigs from the stud of
Large Whites were reared.
The property also produced
3000 bales grass-hay and an
acre hybrid-beet for winter-
fodder, 12 acres ensilage and
five acres maize.
Since 1948 the pig-stud has
won three firsts at the Meat
Board appraisals at Dande-
nong and two firsts and two
seconds in bacon-appraisal
competitions at Melbourne
Royal. In 1955 a carcass tied
with one from Frank Hawtin’s
property to obtain an Aus-
tralian record of 95 points.
Cheviot Sheep and Horses
We went on to R. and K.
Metherall’s Cheviot stud at
Leighlands, Tooradin. Situated
on the edge of the Koo-Wee-
Rup Swamp, Leighlands has
some of the richest soil in the
State. The total holding is
400 acres and, besides the
Cheviots, crossbred sheep and
some cattle are run. A por-
tion of the property is also
share - farmed by potato-
growers, in order to prepare
the land for summer crops and
resowing of pasture. Since
1951 the carrying-capacity
has been doubled.
The Cheviot stud was
formed in 1953 on a founda-
tion of ewes from Walson and
Stratharrock Studs. The Wal-
son ewes were in lamb to
Dougal of Struan, a ram which
laid the foundation for the
good heads and wool for which
Leighlands has become noted,
Leighlands first started show-
ing stock in 1954 and has since
been successful in the bigger
shows. Horses are also bred
at Leighlands, mostly show-
jumpers and hacks. Last year
the stud won the Colonel
Pope Cup, reserve-champion
saddle-horse of the Melbourne
R o y a l
u , , , , r • , ,
We had a delicious barbecue-
, u , . •,
lunch on the lawn outside the
, . , A if
homestead. A couple of
Cheviots had been slaughtered
to provide the lamb chops,
which tasted all the better
because they were cooked by
councillors of the Cranbourne
Shire.
Harry Williams, one of the
cooks, comes from Victoree
Farm, near Dalmore, and has
found that the deep, rich, black
loam round his place will grow
lucerne well. He put in a lot
of lucerne and now finds he’s
doing a roaring trade—origin-
ally, it was broken-up for
poultry-feed, but now the
dairyfarmers have cottoned-on
to the idea and he can,t P ro '
duce enough. He also runs his
own Abeideen Angus stud.
Anoth * r cook was Mac
Greaves, “Daddy’s” son, who s
been mentioned earlier in the
piece.
We we nt to look at the
sheep after lunch a good,
level lot, particularly notable
f° r their heads. The show-
team consists of five rams and
ewes.
Afterwards, we saw some
show-jumping. Mrs. Methera 1
before her marriage, Kath
Lucas won the Garryowen
Trophy in 1947 and 1949 and
came second in 1950 and 1952
and, although in that competi-
& • • ~ ,L-
-tion no jumping is called-tor,
, J 00
proved her right to the times
K,, , & r
S - e „ hm-ce
rln « , by th . e dls P lay of hoI T:
mansh, P , s . he , Bave ° v . er . the
J um P s m ,he horse-paddock.
p a t Lambs
Next stop was G. J. R.
Coles’s 816-acre property at
Kewarra, Moorooduc, five
miles from Mornington. This


WIRE-NETTING
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- each
GALVANISED FASTENERS
ll- per 1000
'As fast as you can squeeze Its
easy-working handles, this self-
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the
THIS EASY WAY
(25 yds. per minute)
Ring Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
14 Gauge cement-adhered staples into sturdy £ in. rings, which are
cally fed mto the jaws. There is no wastaggrr-rthe job is qyick, Heat and strong
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured by Gerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd.. 18 Ireland St., W. MELB.
property is used solely for
fat-lamb production, and
carries 2000 Border Leicester-
cross Merino ewes and 300 dry
sheep.
Since the place was bought
in 1946, pasture-improvement
has been the order of the day,
and now 550 acres have been
resown to improved strains of
perennial-rye, cocksfoot and
white-clover, and 100 acres are
at present fallow for summer
brassica-crops. About 112
acres have been set aside for
experimental work organised
by the Peninsula Fat Lamb
Producers’ Association, and
the 320 ewes in this area have
to receive special attention.
All lambs are weighed and
ear-tagged at birth, and details
are kept in a record-book.
This association, founded in
1957, has the aim of collect-
ing and distributing to its
members technical and econo-
mic information about the
industry. There are now 80
members, and a research-fund
has been started, to which
farmers, seed- and fertiliser-
firms and stock-agents con-
tribute.
The Commonwealth Bank
Rural Credits division has
given over £2OOO in the last
two years to Melbourne Uni.’s
School of Agriculture for
research-work on fat lambs
in the Peninsula and the asso-
ciation has made land, stock
and finance available for
fencing various test-plots.
We also saw some fine speci-
mens of Ryeland sheep,
brought by lan Blyth and his
wife from their Geniamba
Stud (No. 309) at Rosebud.
Here, on 12 acres, Mrs. Blyth,
who is secretary of the asso-
ciation, runs 16 breeders as a
hobby. Present sire is Burn-
wood King Solomon, and the
show-team will be two rams
and four ewes.
George Clark, of Dande-
nong, who, with his brother,
has started a shearing-and-
crutching business as con-
tractors, gave us a demonstra-
tion of shearing, and G. J. R.
Coles —a noted judge of
Hampshire ’ Down and Shrop-
shire sheep—entertained us to
afternoon-tea.
We left Kewarra for Dava
Lodge Hotel, where we spent
the night as guests of Shell.
Guernsey Stud
Next morning we set-out for
R. G. Watson’s Guernsey stud
at Overport, Frankston. The
100 acres of this property,
when bought in 1939, were all
virgin bush and only about 40
acres had been cleared in 1948,
when the first Guernsey cows
were brought in. The rest of
the property was cleared and
fenced within the next five
years, and now, although there
is no irrigation and dam-water
has to supply all needs, the
farm is subdivided into small
paddocks and a fair sole of
grass has been established.
Deciding to base his herd
on the famous Fernhill blood,
Watson went overseas in 1951
and bought from Mrs. K. E. R.
Butchart’s herd the yearling
bull Worthy Robert Bth (first
yearling, R.A.S.E., 1951) and
the heifer Worthy Robert’s
Programme sth (later cham-
pion at the Melbourne Royal
in 1954). In 1954 he bought
four more head of Fernhill
blood-stock and the noted cow
Petw o o d Precious D.M.
(champion at the Bath and
West in 1954, and breed-
champion and reserve-cham-
pion, all breeds at the Royal
Counties Show that year).
At Melbourne Royal last
year, Overport won 10 firsts
and two seconds and, showing
only seven head, won the
ribbon for the most successful
exhibitor. This year the stud
has entered its largest team to
date—l4—which includes two
Melbourne champions, two
reserve Royal champions and
two young sons of Worthy
Robert Bth.
After morning-tea in the
delightful homestead we left
Overport for Norman Lodge
Farm, Mount Eliza, where the
Myer Emporium owns a pro-
perty of 258 acres. The home-
stead is used as a holiday-
home for the firm’s staff and,
on the land, the company runs
a poultry-section of about 3000
Australorps, with a small stud
of White Leghorns for cross-
breeding ; a flock of 150
Romney Marsh breeding-ewes
and another 120 Southdowns ;
and a herd of 25 Jersey cows.
W. E. Pederick, head of the
poultry-section, showed ps
round and explained to us
that the section is run as a
sound business - proposition.
The demand for Australorp-
White Leghorn chicks has
developed, and the output of
the farm, which has risen to
meet the demand, now stands
at between 80,000 and 100,000
birds a year. All surplus eggs
are marketed through the
Myer Emporium’s city store.
Milk and cream for the
holiday-home are supplied by
the Jersey herd, excess milk is
sold to the Milk Board.
Melbourne Hunt Club
After lunch at Norman
Lodge we moved on to our
last assignment—the Mel-
bourne Hunt Club, at Cran-
bourne, where magnificent
stables and kennels were built
in 1924, when the club moved
there from Oakleigh.
The Melbourne Hounds,
founded in 1854 by George
Watson, is the oldest estab-
lished pack of foxhounds still
in existence in Australia, and
the kennels are under the
management of Keith
Bregazzi, the huntsman, who
has lived there since 1936. The
hunt—its present joint-masters
are Peter Ronald and Owen
Moore —has always followed
the tradition of English hunt-
ing and hunts only foxes.
Meets are held on Saturdays
during the winter and fields of
about 40 usually turn-out,
pony-clubs giving good back-
ing to the sport.
Peter Ronald met us at the
club and, with Keith Bregazzi,
Rupert Richardson, Mac
Greaves and other willing
helpers—including R. and
Kath Metherall —showed us
over the kennels and stables
and then staged a meet and
let the pack run through two
paddocks and over a couple of
fences.
So ended a memorable tour.
We saw a lot in a short time
and owe more thanks than I
can give to the generosity of
our many hosts and particu-
larly to Shell, who make these
tours possible.


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of My Brilliant Career, by
Miles Franklin. —6876.
To buy Part 1 of the Lingua-
phone Annotated Vocabulary and
Explanatory Notes to the Russian
Conversational Course (Lessons
1-15).—6872.
The Melbournians, by Francis
Adams. —6873.
Vol. 12 of Dr. C. E. W. Bean’s
History of A.I.F. —6874.
Copy of The Coastwatchers, by
Eric Feldt. —6875.
Does Anybody Know?
Whether Cobb and Co. ever
used a company seal in N.S.W.?
Words of E. L. Thayer’s Casey
at the Bat.
Information Supplied
(From “A.G.S.”): Answering
the question, “How did God s
Sabbath, the seventh day of the
week, come to be changed to Sun-
day, the first day,” the “Service
Department” (B. 12/8/’59) claims
that from the very beginning the
Christian church met for worship
each week on the first day of the
week, citing the apostle Paul as
an authority.
In Acts xv 21 Paul writes, “Moses
of old time hath in every city
them that preach him being read
in the synagogues every Sabbath.”
Twenty years after the Resurrection,
Paul came to Philippi, a Roman
colony of Gentiles, and held a
meeting on the Sabbath day by a
river-side “where prayer was wont
to be made.” At Corinth, a year
later, “he reasoned in the synagogue
every Sabbath and persuaded both
Jews and Greeks” and “he con-
tinued a year and six months preach-
ing the word of God among them.”
And later, as a prisoner, Paul said,
“1 have committed nothing against
the people or customs of our
fathers.”
Dr. R. W. Dale, in his Ten
Commandments, says: “It is quite
clear that however rigidly or
devoutly we may spend Sunday we
are not - keeping the Sabbath.”
Again, “There is not a single sen-
tence in the New Testament to
suggest that we incur no penalty
by violating the supposed sanctity
of Sunday.”
Information Sought
How to get rid of worms in
horses ?
To be effective, drugs for the
treatment of worms must be given
after a starvation of 36 hours —
with the exception of phenothia-
zine. Some drugs require a purga-
tive, others are effective against
one type of worm and not against
others. Try phenothiazine
in a bran-mash, spreading the treat-
ment over three days (i.e., ioz. on
three consecutive days). A bran-
mash should also be given for
two days before and after treat-
ment. Give the horse a spell for
a few days; repeat treatment in
a month’s time. For three days
before and after treatment feed
bran-mashes to prevent constipa-
tion. Passing of worms by horses
should not always be taken as
proof that worm-infestation is
responsible for deteriorating con-
dition. Examine the teeth: uneven
wear and sharp edges stop the food
being ground and properly pre-
pared for the digestive process
of the stomach and intestines.
Rasping of the teeth often leads
to great improvement without any
further treatment.
* * * *
What causes strangles in animals,
and how is the disease treated ?
(From the Department of Agri-
culture) : Strangles is caused by
infection with a micro-organism
(Streptococcus equf). First symp-
toms in animals are a high tempera-
ture (104 to 105 deg. F.) and a
disinclination to feed. Respiration
is increased; a mucous discharge
from the nose gradually thickens
over the first 24 to 48 hours. The
throat becomes inflamed and there
may be some difficulty in swallow-
ing. The lymph-glands between
the branches of the lower jaw
become inflamed and swollen, and
an abscess is formed. On rare
occasions these abscesses may break
inwardly. The disease is then ex-
tremely dangerous, as,the poisonous
matter may get into the windpipe.
Normally relief occurs soon after
discharge of the abscess. Course
of the disease is about three weeks.
. Strangles can be treated by
administering sulphanilamide at
the rate of 1 gramme per 101 b.
body-weight for the first day and
1 gramme per 151 b. body-weight
for the next four days. In a
number of cases the combination
of penicillin and streptomycin, at
the rate of 2m. to 3m. units of
long-acting penicillin and 3 grammes
of streptomycin, will have good
results. Where there are abscesses
under the jaw, blisters, such as
reducine, should be rubbed on the
most prominent points.
Brief Answers
T.A.J.: (1) It is not a natural pro-
cess, though ordinary honey will
sometimes candy in very cold
climates. Commercial candying is
caused by the mixing of a thistle-
honey into plain honey, the thistle-
honey being used as a starter tor
the process, which is completed by
refrigeration. Districts in which
the thistle grows are known to
manufacturers, who buy accord-
ingly. This is the method used
in N.S.W. —it may differ elsewhere.
(2) The street is named after
Robert Lathrop Murray (1777-1850),
pioneer journalist who went to
Hobart in 1821 and became famous
for his spirited advocacy of the
freedom of the press, humanitarian-
ism in prison-reform and transporta-
tion and the founding of free-
masonry in Australia. He died in
England in 1850.... D. S. MacK.:
Not possible to castrate a male
elephant without major surgery,
since the testicles are inside the
body. Male elephants are normally
used entire, and the Arabs do not
practise gelding either on camels
or horses. Entire males which are
kept are saved for breeding, and
all other males are destroyed at
birth A.N.: No need to ring-
bark trees to kill them. A very
effective method is to bore a half-
inch hole about 4in. into the base
of the tree, fill the hole with car-
bide and plug it. The sap of the
tree will cause the carbide to burn,
and the tree will die within a few
days. It usually kills right to the
roots.:. .H.L.L.: Poem is by
Laurence B'inyon... .R.S.: Unable
to help with that one. Write to
the Public Library, Macquarie
Street, Sydney... .N.R.: All large
companies of any importance have
had their own seals. The Registrar-
General in each State has files of
all such important documents. A
fee is required for a search. His-
torical societies also can help.
Information on station-properties
would have to be sought in par-
ticular districts from council records,
church-registers and historical
societies. Some records would be
in the Mitchell Library in Sydney,
and owners of big properties, or
family owners of unbroken owner-
ship over a long period, can usually
supply details.... .X.X.: Maximum
recorded life-span of a kangaroo
in captivity is about 13 years. As
for snakes, virtually no work has
been done to determine their
natural life-span. We know the
“potential life-span” rather than
the “expected life-span” of a few
species: most of the smaller
venomous snakes live from five to
25 years. The longest-lived snakes
are the larger pythons, which have
been known to live for more than
40 years. Some of these were
quite large when first collected.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(27/8/’59)
Queensland’s rainfall may vary from moderate to good
during September, although the Peninsula, centre-coast,
north-western and far-western districts may get only light
falls. General rains should occur in October, with good
rains extending into part of the far south-western districts.
N.S.W. should receive moderate to good rains in Sep-
tember, with the best falls on the central-western districts
and part of the central tablelands. Moderate general rains
are likely in October, with heavy general rains and wide-
spread flooding in November.
Victoria should have reasonably good general rams
during September and October. Heavy falls and some flood-
ing are likely in the central division. Heavy general rains
and widespread flooding are indicated in November.
The agricultural areas of South Australia should receive
good rains in September, although falls may be light in the
interior. Good rains are indicated throughout the State in
October.
Rainfall is likely to be moderate in the agricultural
areas of Western Australia during September, although
around Eucla and in the lower south-coastal and south-
eastern districts there should be good falls. Light, patchy
rains are indicated elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary. .
L.D.: Don’t waste time with
lengthy introductions. Get straight
into the story... .W.R.: Well, you
could try to get rid of that vague
and depressing sense of hopeless-
ness. Can’t any of them smile?
T.P.: Maybe it would pass,
if you trimmed the descriptive
passages and concentrated more
on action G.H.: Not much in
either of them... .0.5. : Rather
barren and sandy... .8.R.: The
flounder story is hardly any differ-
ent from most other fish-stories.
E.E.: The prospector and his
gold are returning by registered
post M.W.: While you un-
doubtedly have a flair for observ-
ing minutiae, the total effect in
this case is scrappiness J.P.F.:
“An Evening with TV” might
suit a women’s paper... .G.D.:
Have another go at the ending.
. ...E.A.: Very slight... .C.N.:
Stick to paragraphs M.S.D.:
Too much lush c010r... .W.L.:
The only gobd b'it is where the
fire crackles through the bush....
R.K.: Try to relax your style; at
present it’s too matter-of-fact
8.J.: As it stands, it could well
form the basis of a short-story.
As verse the technical construction
is weak... .H.H.: The jabbering
landlady has been dismissed.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY WALTON late of Swan-
sea.—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
MARY ANN WALTON has filed a Peti-
T;ion for Divorce No. 2685 of 1959 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Mint Building. Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 17th day of
November 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from E. G.
SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Hear the humorous songs of
the Australian bush on
WATTLE RECORDINGS
Give yourself and your
children access to the world’s
finest folk music through the
folk music record club
For both record lists mail to
131 Cathedral St., Sydney,
FA 7989.
THE HOLLIDAYS
" I know what you're thinking , but it won't do you any good!"
New Recordings
NATIVE MUSIC
Tn Music of New Guinea,
No. 2 in the Wattle Archive
Series, Ray Sheridan has
edited a selection of represen-
tative musical dances indigen-
ous to New Guinea and the
islands of Melanesia. In this
he has been helped by Dr.
W. E. Smythe, an authority on
the slit-drum orchestras of
Manus Island ; and the total
result, recorded in sparkling
high - fidelity, is extremely
interesting.
If it is argued that' the
subject-matter is primarily of
specialist interest, it can be
equally said that this music,
produced by natives with no
academic training, has per-
sisted for centuries —music of
the earth, the sky, love, feast-
ing. In this sense the term
“specialist interest” may well
require qualification. The
record would certainly interest
anthropologists and musicolo-
gists seeking to trace the back-
ground of a specific race’s
music ; but for anyone want-
ing to learn more about the
highly complex, basically
traditional music of primitive
natives it is a goldmine.
At a lecture on didgeridoo-
music given in Sydney some
three years ago by Trevor
Jones the complexity of Aus-
tralian aboriginal music was
demonstrated by a film-slide—
a page of didgeridoo-music
set-out in modern notation.
In terms of technical difficulty
it equalled, in its cross-
rhythmic figuration, an
abstruse piece by a modern
composer. This New Guinea
music is of much the same
order of development, and one
is continually amazed at the
quality of tone they get from
instruments which can only be
described as home-made.
However, it’s not the sort
of stuff for amateurs ; the only
people who can successfully
and convincingly interpret
such music are the people who
create it. Music of New
Guinea starts with a vigorous
demonstration of skin-drum-
ming by natives of the
Finschhafen area; after awhile
a surly solo voice asserts itself.
This is a munge (feast-dance) ;
gradually the rhythm becomes
more agitated, and you hear
disjointed voices; then there
are eight beats from a bamboo
vibrating-rattle—it sounds like
a pack of steel cards being
ruffled. In a silum nage,
singers and drummers are
caught wailing to the nage
fruit to make it ripen quickly ;
and in laloi, an initiation-
ceremony here performed by
Madang natives, the ritual is
introduced by a few mournful
blasts on what one would like
to imagine is a cow-horn —but
no: according to the notes
provided with the record
(without which you’d be
sunk!) it’s a dige:
This is a tube of bamboo at
least 12ft. long. The music of the
dige js produced by the performer
partly singing, and partly trumpet-
ing into the tube....
Obviously the sheer mass of
music/ with one item running
slap-bang into another, so that
before you know where you
are the fishing-song has turned
into a harvest-song, prevents
one from making a really
detailed report; there are, for
instance, no fewer than six
different types of flute repre-
sented, as well as such interest-
ing things as a bamboo rattle,
pan-pipes, jew’s-harp, zither
and, of course, drums. The
drums fall, no doubt with a
reverberating thud, into two
categories: ordinary ones
which
are made from a single piece of
wood; they are hourglass-shaped,
hollow throughout, and a single
tympanum, usually of lizard-skin,
is fastened over one end only by
a hoop of cane. On the average,
the drum is about 2ft. 6in. long
and 6jn. wide....
and those curiously named
objects, the slit-drums (for one
imagines that a drum, of all
musical instruments, would
suffer by having slits cut in
it!). But here again the notes
explain:
These are made from logs of
wood, the inside of which have
been hollowed-out through long,
but fairly narrow, slits.
One would say the second
side of the record—which
takes you, in a wide sweep,
from the highlands of New
Guinea over to the Admiralty
Islands —is, if anything, more
coloristic than the first side.
Drums underline nearly every-
thing. The singing is pre-
dominantly in unison, but
there are also some harmon-
ised efforts, notably by the
Solomon Islanders on the
seventh band of the second
side ; and a spfendid burst of
drumming, which springs at
you with alarming fidelity,
concludes the side.
To help “place” the sources
of the music, there is a neat
map printed in dark-brown
on the back of the jacket; and
Ray Sheridan’s accompanying
notes teach you a great deal
about performers, instruments
and music.
A. W.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Sydney is ready for the visit of H.R.H.
Princess Alexandra; flags are fluttering
from city buildings, masses of flowers
are being gathered, and even though
“Here she is! Wasn’t she wonderful?”
will be the summary of many people’s
personal viewing of her, the excitement
of the visit has caught just about every-
one up in its wake.
Given sunny weather, Sydney’s streets
will be packed all along the route when
Princess Alexandra arrives at lunch-time
today, Wednesday, September 9. After
being welcomed by Lord Mayor Jensen
at the Town Hall at 1 p.m., her Royal
Highness will continue on to Government
House, where she will be the guest of the
Governor, Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady
Woodward. Never have the Government
House gardens looked lovelier ; azaleas,
stocks, carnations and hundreds of bright
border-flowers are blooming; the
fascination of seeing hibiscus flowers
could have worn-off a little after the
luxuriant profusion to be seen in Queens-
land, but the coral-trees and the stately
old gums will still provide an unusual
and beautiful setting to the grounds.
Sydney’s official civic welcome to
Princess Alexandra will be an unusual
open-air function at the Showground on
Friday night, when a capacity crowd of
45,000 is expected. It was the idea of
the Lord Mayor, who wanted accent on
youth and as many citizens as possible to
share the occasion. The programme
includes a two-mile race and a sprint in
which leading athletes will compete ; a
marching-display by combined R.A.N.
bands; musical-ride by the N.S.W.
mounted-police ; a fly-past by Sabre jets
of the R.A.A.F.; Trooping of the Color
by units of Eastern Command and a
fi reworks-display.
Some of the most excited are the very
young members of Junior Red Cross,
and when Princess Alexandra visits the
Eleanor MacKinnon Home at Cronulla
on Friday next (September 11) she will
have a Junior Red Cross guard-of-honor
of 1200 pupils from schools in the metro-
politan area. There will be nothing tiring
or “stuffy” about her visit, which is
expected to be one of the least official
and most uninhibited welcomes ever
given -to a- member of the Royal family.
The tea-tree brooch given to Princess
Alexandra by the people of Australia
looked just right on the lapel of the
brilliant-red fine-wool coat and matching
dress she wore on a cool day in Queens-
land. Her hat was a red-and-white-
patterned sou’-wester, and shoes and
handbag were white. The brooch, of
which a picture is in the window of
Hardy's, the Sydney jewellers who made
it, takes the form of a sprig, with three
diamond-and-ruby flowers and five
tourmaline-buds with diamond-set stems
and leaves mounted in platinum.
H.R.H. Princess Alexandra is wearing
a chiffon gown in a favorite color of
warm-apricot in this picture. A diamond-
and-pearl brooch fastens at the neckline,
and her necklace is a triple-string of
pearls. Her diamond-and-pearl tiara is
matched with diamond-and-pearl ear-
rings. The Princess shows a poise and
regal dignity in this picture; others
taken during her tour reflect a variety
of expressions from the earnest and
intent to the gay and lighthearted mood
caught when she scuffled barefoot
through the sand on the beach at Linde-
man Island. The charm and candor of
her personality show through in them
all, and the comment, “Aye, she’s
bonny!” of an elderly Scotswoman, is
just one of the many sincere tributes
echoing through Australia.
Decorations for the Golden Ball
tomorrow night (September 10) at the
Trocadero in honor of the Princess
will make the title an apt one. Golden
leaves completely cover the dado around
the ballroom, and a canopy of golden
material is supported by tapering
columns. Paul Jones is responsible for
the decor, which can be expected to be
strikingly lovely. Proceeds of the ball
will aid the N.S.W. Institution for Deaf
and Blind Children, and the organisation
has been handled by Mrs. M. Deky-
vere, president of its Black and White
committee, with Mrs. Russell Nash
deputy-president, Mrs. John Atwill and
Mrs. David Lloyd Jones vice-presidents,
Caroline Anderson hon. secretary, and
Prue Pratten hon. treasurer. A young
committee consists of 40 members, all
under 30 years of age, who will each
bring in her party four other couples
as well as her own partner, and so
ensure a distinct emphasis on youth at
the ball.
Five members of Red Cross young-
twenties are among those to be pre-
sented to the Princess at this ball.
President Margaret Barrett, who will be
escorted by her fiance, Duntroon cadet
Kerry Bell, has chosen blue tulle for
her ballgown, over which she will wear
an evening-coat of blue
taffeta. Harriet Dearth, of
Cammeray, is being
partnered by David
Grahame, and her dress of
apricot-chiffon is made in
Edwardian style. Jennifer
Lewis will be there with her
fiance, Raymond Lear-
mont (whom she is marry-
ing on September 19); Jill
O’Brien will be escorted by
John Stranger.
The wistful remark of the
Princess at Brisbane Show
is one that should cause a
twinge or two in official
consciences when the 22-
year-old girl is kept stand-
ing for long periods shaking
hands with several hundred
people. (Just try putting
your hand out for such a
purpose even 50 times and
see how tired it becomes!).
She said, “I’d just love to
get into my old clothes and
visit all the sideshows
without being recognised!”
☆ *
The Governor - General,
Sir William Slim, has given
permission to St. John
Ambulance Brigade to
hold its annual garden fete
in Admiralty House grounds
next Saturday, September 12. Ferries
will leave No. 6 wharf, Circular Quay,
every half-hour commencing at 12.30
p.m. Buses with the St. John badge will
carry patrons free from the Orpheum
Theatre, North Sydney, or Milson’s
Point Station. There will be Punch-
and-Judy show, displays of judo and
ballet, musical programme and the usual
stalls. Admission to grounds is 25., half-
price for children under 15, free for
those under 10.
V- V v v
Large crowds of onlookers blocked
the streets outside the Australia on
Saturday night to watch the arrival of
guests at the dinner tendered in honor
of visiting Cardinal Agagianian by
Cardinal Gilroy, Roman Catholic Arch-
bishop of Sydney. Guests-of-honor were
the Premier and Mrs. J. J. Cahill, and
Lord Mayor Aid. H. F. Jensen and
Mrs. Jensen. Members of the Asso-
ciated Catholic Committee and many


out-of-town visitors were among those
presented to his Eminence, and included
national president Mrs. K. Burrow,
M.8.E., Mrs. M. Heness, Mrs. M. Pelle-
grini, and Mrs. J. G. Basclain. Among
the guests were Air-Vice-Marshal and
Mrs Hancock; Lieut.-General Pollard
and Mrs. Pollard ; Sir Edward and Lady
McTiernan ; Mr. and Mrs. Costa ; Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Harries ; Dr. and Mrs.
Redler ; Mr. and Mrs. N. Dumas ; Mr.
and Mrs. Mackey ; Mr. and Mrs. J. J.
Corry; Mr. and Mrs. J. J. McEncroe
and Mrs. A. J. Thorpe.
MELBOURNE
The pageantry of the opening of Par-
liament by the Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, was enhanced by frocking that
was a nice mixture of color and elegance.
Lady Brooks wore a deep-navy frock
of fine-silk and wool draped to one
side to form an overskirt at the back ;
a small cap of pleated navy silk rosettes
and an emba-mink stole completed her
ensemble. Mrs. R. W. Mack, wife of
the acting-president of the Legislative
Council, wore a frock of emerald-green
wool with a small toning velvet hat.
A turban cloche with broad bands of
white-and-navy jersey highlighted the
navy suit chosen by Mrs. Bolte. Lady
McDonald, wife of the Speaker, wore
with her powder-blue-and-white-spotted
silk frock a navy duster-coat and small
white, stitched hat which had a narrow
band of navy across the front. Guests
included the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Bernard Evans),
the latter in a deep-sea-green wool coat
and peacock-green velvet toque which
had a side-sweep of printed green-and-
white silk ; the Town Clerk and Mrs.
Rogan ; Sir John and Lady Jungwirth ;
Sir Arthur and Lady Smithers and Mr.
and Mrs. L. J. Dooling.
V V V
One of the highlights of the week was
a trip to Geelong and back in the Royal
train in which Princess Alexandra will
make her entry into Victoria from
Albury. State carriage No. 5, which was
used by the Queen and the Duke of
Edinburgh, is beautifully panelled in
Queensland figured-walnut, and the
dining-room chairs are upholstered in
light-green grained-leather. Easy chairs
in ivory-brocade, and rust-toned velvet
curtains are other features of the sitting-
cwn-dining-room, which has large land-
scape-windows on each side. At one end
is a radio, set into the wall next to a
cupboard containing a setting of beautiful
crystal.
There is a tone-on-tone beige carpet,
and on one wall an Australian landscape
by John Loxton.
Solid satin-oak panels the Princess’s
bedroom, which is delightfully furnished.
Upholstery on the chair matches the
bedspread, which is of ivory-brocade
patterned in tiny blue-and-pink flowers.
The spread is trimmed with a narrow
ruffle of blue silk to match draw-curtains
and carpet. At one end is a small bath-
room in cream and stainless steel, and
soft lighting over the dressing-table
mirror gives a soft rosy glow. A com-
municating door leads to an identical
bedroom for the use of her lady-in-
waiting. Other features of this com-
fortable, smooth-running train include
an observation-car which has elevated
chairs so that people lining the country-
side may get a clear view of the Princess.
Morning-tea and luncheon were served
to those who made the trial run, which
was under the personal supervision of
Chief Railways Commissioner, Edgar
Brownbill, who was accompanied by Mrs.
Brownbill.
Lady May Abel Smith is the wife of
Colonel Sir Henry Abel Smith, Governor
of Queensland, with whom Princess
Alexandra stayed while in Brisbane. Some
people claim to see a distinct family
resemblance between the two cousins.
Lady May, before her marriage, was
Lady May Cambridge, and is the
daughter of the Earl of Athlone and
Princess Alice, Duchess of Athlone, her
mother being a granddaughter of Queen
Victoria. Government House, Brisbane,
affords a contrast with the English homes
of the couple, one Barton Lodge, in
Windsor, the other in Winkfield Row,
London.
When the Governor and Lady Brooks,
with their son-in-law and daughter, Mr.
and Mrs. Robin Byrne, arrived at the
Princess Theatre for the first night of
the revue “Many Happy Returns” they
were received by Mrs. Garnet Carroll
and Mr. and Mrs. Harry Wren. Her
Excellency wore a mink stole with her
wide-skirted frock of midnight-blue
organza, which sparkled with matching
pailettes. In the audience were Cr.
Oliver J. Nilsen, his son and daughter-
in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Victor Nilsen ;
Mr. and Mrs. Eric Fowler, she wearing
a theatre-coat of black velvet which
featured an all-over design of gold
leaves ; Mr. and Mrs. Frank Shipton ; Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Byrne ; Mr. and Mrs.
J. Alston. Mr. Wren and Miss Gladys
Moncrieff (the latter receiving a great
ovation after singing many of the songs
which brought her fame) made a
generous gesture to the Robin Hood
Committee of the Helping Hand Asso-
ciation which cares for mentally-retarded
children by donating 400 first-night
tickets.
* * *
Lovely mannequins displayed the
latest fashions from Paris at the parade
held at Le Louvre, Collins Street. Mrs.
T. G. Pizzey was the organiser, and the
money raised went to defray expenses
of the recent Embroideries of All
Nations, which raised a good sum for
the University building-appeal. Guests
who sipped champagne while admiring
the creations included Lady Amies, Mrs.
Ernest Poolman, Mrs. Alistair Mackin-
non, Mrs. Massey Burnside, Mrs.
Tristan Buesst, Mrs. W. E. Sturrock,
Mrs. Maurice Nathan, Mrs. Lindsay
Plant. Mrs. Liel Pizzey, Mrs. John
Dixon, Mrs. Fred Lawrence, Mrs. John
Webster, Mrs. H. I. Fader and Mrs.
John Dynon.
* * *
The members’ dining-room at Parlia-
ment House bloomed with daffodils at
the reception at which Mrs. Henry Bolte,
the Premier’s wife, welcomed members
of inter-State women’s hockey-teams.
The 130 guests, representing teams from
all States, were presented by Miss T.
Wicks, acting-president of the All-
Australian Women’s Hockey Association,
to Mrs. Bolte, who wore a suit of deep-
hydrangea-blue wool and a matching
swathed turban caught at one side with
a jewelled clip.
☆ ☆
Mrs. William Banks and her com-
mittee looked very happy when she gave
to the president of the English Speaking
Union’s younger members’ group, Mr.
Ron Thompson, a cheque for £335 to
help along the E.S.U. travelling-scholar-
ship fund. This was the proceeds from
the July Rendezvous dinner-dance at
Ciro’s, of which Mrs. Banks was dance-
committee chairman. This pleasing hand-
ing-over ceremony took place at a coffee-
party held at the E.S.U. clubrooms in
Toorak Road. Among those present
were Anne Dixon, Jean Cameron, Pamela
Middleton, Gay Horton, Pat Wykes and
her fiance Brian Ely, Sonia Brelaz, Mr.
and Mrs. John Kaye, Mr. and Mrs. John
Ely, William Banks and Noel Curphy.
Lady Paton, wife of the Vice-
Chancellor of the University, lent her
home for a luncheon organised by the
Flower Group which, all through the
year, works for University funds. Mrs.
Dorothy Paul had arranged a lovely
bowl of magnolias, which was set on the
grand piano in the drawing-room, and
scattered on the white mantel were single
pink and white camellias. During the
afternoon Mrs. Paul showed guests how
to arrange camellias, a difficult flower
to handle. President Mrs. Joyce Johns
was in charge of the luncheon and meet-
ing which followed, and among those
present were Mrs. Arthur Dean (wife
of University Chancellor Mr. Justice
Dean), and Mrs. F. T. Schofield.


examination, but was given only small
parts. He asked for more money and
better parts, and was sacked. So back
he went to the Boulevard du Temple,
and in a while scored his first great
triumph by playing a melodramatic
murderer as a lovable comic: his
Robert Macaire, in “L’Auberge des
Adrets” was to go into his repertoire,
and later to inspire his own play,
“Robert Macaire.”
But his next triumph was in 1827,
in “Thirty Years of a Gambler’s Life”
—and that “thirty years” had a
peculiar significance. The French
theatre was at that time governed by
the classical “unities,” and here was
a play spread over thirty years by a
schoolmaster who wanted to prove that
the “unity” restricting the time of a
play to twenty-four hours could be
broken.
Lemaitre played it with force, and
such gestures of truth as taking a pinch
of snuff while his stage-wife signed
away her dowry to pay his debts; Marie
Dorval played with natural grace and
charm. As Baldick analyses it, it was
not merely the replacement of “classi-
cal” with “romantic” acting; what they
seem to have done is to impose classi-
cal restraints on a melodramatic theme.
At any rate in this play in 1827
Lemaitre and Dorval anticipated by
their acting the revolution brought to
a head by Kemble’s production of
“Hamlet” in Paris in 1828, when Hugo,
de Vigny, Dumas, de Nerval, Berlioz
and Delacroix in the first-night audi-
ence were “thunderstruck” at this
Shakspearian “revelation.”
And so, when Dumas and Hugo,
under the shock of Shakspeare, began
creating the French Romantic theatre,
Lemaitre became their finest actor. It
would be nice to be able to present this
romantic triumph in a romantic
manner: “Henry III,” “Marino
Faliero,” “Lucrezia Borgia,”
“Napoleon Bonaparte,” “Ruy Bias,”
etc.; triumph on triumph, stroke on
stroke. But it didn’t work out that
way. It was a series of theatrical
squabbles, changes of theatre, provin-
cial tours. Lemaitre was early
separated from his natural ally, Dorval.
He left his cold wife and began train-
ing a beautiful young mistress to be a
great actress by beating her; then she
left him for a rich lover.
Nor were the great romantic plays
of Dumas and Hugo his greatest suc-
cesses. His own play, “Robert
Macaire,” first produced in 1834,
seems to have been that—and if he
could be resurrected, then it is this
play one would most want to see him
in. Not only was it an actor’s play,
full of things that only Lemaitre could
do, but it was also compared with the
“Marriage of Figaro” by Beau-
marchais—as a social satire, and con-
tributory to the downfall of Louis-
Philippe. “For the character of
Robert Macaire,” said Gautier,
Lemaitre created a truly Shaks-
pearian type of humor —a terrifying
gaiety, a sinister roar of laughter, a
bitter derision, a merciless raillery,
a sarcasm which leaves the cold-
blooded wickedness of Mephis-
topheles far behind—and on top of
that, an astonishing elegance, supple-
ness and grace which belongs to the
aristocracy of vice. What a strange
and profound satire this is, in which
the criticism of society is made by a
brigand!
Lemaitre even, in his first London
season, pleased Queen Victoria with
“Robert Macaire.” She wrote in her
diary:—
a most amusing piece in which
Lemaitre was quite admirable, acting
beautifully and inimitably, as a
swindler, thief and even murderer.
But on a later visit he shocked her
with Hugo’s “Ruy Bias,” in which a
valet is shown (horror!) in love with
the Queen of Spain: “placing,” Queen
Victoria diarised, “the unfortunate
Queen of Spain in the most humiliat-
ing position imaginable.” Ruy Bias,
the hero, she wrote,
was very badly acted by Lemaitre,
who besides being very old, without
a tooth in his head, which rendered
A CAME AT CHESS
Beware
his flashing eyes and floating hair.
The carpet of the second stair
is twisted.
Why do their trumpets
so furiously rumble
in caverns and hollows
where the humble stumble?
Out, poet. Come out !
Never shake your locks.
Here’s a game, here’s a candle.
Here are men in a box.
Set up your squares and
steady yoi<r ambit.
P—Q4 ? Oh well l
accept that old gambit.
But space is enormous and
nothing is done.
P x P:
is it only for fun ?
Ha ! victory is not
to swift or strong.
My royal liege,
you dally too long.
o—o
a virgin wall
o—o
may shattered fall.
Madame take care,
be not unguarded,
lest in distress
ye be discarded.
Smoothing my bruised bones
l scan the damp corridor:
a vague luminescence, but
not what / came for.
Observe the brave ranks of
the black and the red.
For battle royal
the field is spread.
This tour d’ivoire
is a weak defence,
l have a mean pawn
eyes it askance.
Even love and hierarchy
at last may falter.
Who keeps the saracen
back from the altar ?
Fly ! tuck up your skirts, Bishop !
Thus churl is a fighter.
With his pithy pikestaff
he’ll cleave your mitre.
Four bold cavaliers
stare grim damnation
stiff across
a frontier station.
And Rome burning.
A stale, a stale.
Well. Say something. Do something.
... A horse, a horse ! . . . for a pint of ale.
Move, poet, move. For God's
sake shatter this impasse.
What ? Q x Q, Kt x Kt, P x Kt . . .
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
The grand rantantara
they are all playing and playing!
What is the word
they are singing and saying ?
They are shouting and singing
that tyranny lies
and rots on the field
of Enterprise.
. . . Edge of the mind, poet ?
No-man’s-emotion ?
Beaver up, frowning,
cold-comfort fashion ?
Hosanna ! the table
is brighter, looks squarer.
Banners, pavilions
riding nearer.
To drumbeat and fife shrill
they are marching and cheering,
the triumph is come, old
obscurity clearing.
And you, poet, in your caves oj ice
flashing, inchoate,
behold your crack’d crown, gilt and awry
in the mirror, checkmate.
s.a.
BRIAN ELLIOTT.


him scarcely intelligible, and with a
cracked voice, is devoid of all dignity.
It was at least true that, still a
superb actor, Lemaitre had grown old.
His last scenes are as touching as any-
thing he did on the stage. His fortune
shrank from 130,000 francs in 1854
to nothing in 1867. He had been
offered membership of the Theatre
Francais again in 1845, but had turned
it down when he found that the great
parts were reserved by the actors
already there. And so in the end the
classical theatre triumphed. The great
romantic was reduced to making some-
thing of old men, to selling his furni-
ture, his books, and the letters he had
received from great writers.
A benefit being arranged for him
fell through. A young woman made
herself his secretary, companion and
nurse until he was seen to be dying;
then old friends visited him. On his
death in 1876 the streets were lined
with people; speeches were made for
an hour by his grave; and three months
later only one man went to the sale of
his effects, “where his private papers,
Robert Macaire’s snuff-box, • Ruy
Bias's cloak and Don Cesar’s sword
were knocked-down by a contemptu-
ous auctioneer for a few francs.”
Essays on Shakspeare
In More Talking of Shakespeare
(Longmans) John Garrett has chosen
twelve lectures delivered at the Shak-
speare Memorial Theatre’s summer
schools between 1954 and 1958.
This is an extremely useful and, for
the most part, eminently readable
volume. In “Wags, Clowns and
Jesters” Nevill Coghill goes right
back to the Tudor period and examines
the special qualities of the Fool:
Sommers, whose dirty riddles con-
vulsed Henry VIII; Tarlton, the poet-
fool, said to be pretty good at
extempore versifying, but whose pub-
lished verse is lamentably foolish;
Jack Oates, who seems to have been
a slightly more likeable fool—he raced
in to his master and guests and
announced that a country wench in the
servants’ hall had eaten garlic and
seventeen men had been poisoned
kissing her. Shakspeare, says Coghill,
“lifted the whole company of such
Fools out of the slough of imbecility.”
And he goes on to clinch the point
by quoting from Shakspeare’s wags,
clowns and jesters.
Henry Yellowlees, who discusses
“Medicine and Surgery in the 1955
Season’s Plays,” describes “Titus
Andronicus” as a “remarkable, blood-
stained melodrama,” and asserts, not
surprisingly, that the surgery of the
play is nothing but rough-and-ready
butchery:—
To suggest that Lavinia could
conceivably have recovered from
amputation of the tongue and both
hands, performed in Roman times,
without anaesthetics, by the amateur
surgeons who had just finished
raping their patient after murdering
her husband, is the crowning medical
absurdity of this fantastic and dis-
gusting business . . .
With “Macbeth” Yellowlees lets
himself go—understandably, because
from a medical viewpoint there is
plenty of material. You can even
appreciate a touch of psychiatric
theorising.
Norman Marshall has a lively
chapter titled “Shakspeare and the
Dramatic Critics,” which, if it some-
times points the finger a little unkindly,
at least gives you something to think
about: whether or not, for instance,
the impressionist critic today is out of
fashion. Marshall thinks he is, and
tends to blame James Agate for
inspiring a state of “chilly aloofness”
upon many of his colleagues and suc-
cessors.
The two women writers represented,
Mary Lascelles and Helen Gardner,
seem to be somewhat at odds. Miss
Lascelles says “As You Like It”
“tingles with questions,” and Miss
Gamer, in her chapter, describes it
as “Shakespeare’s most Mozartian
comedy.” Can it be said that Mozart
of all people tingles with questions?
Sydney Mystery
Helen Fowler’s new novel Hold a
Bright Mirror (Angus and Robertson),
not intended as seriously as her earlier
books, is essentially a light mystery-
story.
It opens pleasantly with a study of
a cat, the owner of which, Fran Mul-
holland, lives in a small block of flats
overlooking Sydney Harbor. She also
owns a hat-shop in the city.
A sinister quality is introduced by
the threat of unknown evil; the tele-
phone rings but nobody is there;
addressed envelopes arrive with only
blank sheets of paper enclosed, and
an undertaker calls—by appointment.
The atmosphere of suspense is well
sustained, and the characters are real,
everyday sort of people, who travel
by tram on mornings “when little
delicate coral-trees blaze cardinal-red,
their slender black stems and branches
untouched by green, and the head-
lands of Rose Bay are drenched in
pure gold light.”
There are some interesting side-
lights on the millinery business and
satisfying descriptions of familiar
scenes, with a romantic interest to
offset the violent fate of one of the
characters, who was cast as a “baddy”
without ever meaning to be one; and
the conclusion is logical and well
thought-out.
Reviewed Briefly
Sights and Spectacles: Mary Mc-
Carthy (Heinemann). Twenty-seven
“theatre chronicles,” most of them
written about Broadway shows for
‘'Partisan Review.” Few people could
agree with all of the author's judg-
ments. She doesn’t herself. In an
entertaining introduction she sees a
number of faults in her earlier attitudes
and opinions, but she hasn’t tried to
vet the pieces because, to her at least,
they suggest the mental climate of the
period they were written in. The only
critical approach consistently apparent
is that of a good writer demanding
good writing in the theatre—and not
often getting it. She is particularly
tough on her own countrymen.
Her review of “Streetcar” must be
one of the most blistering notices a
play has ever got. Especially enjoy-
able are her notes on Saroyan and
Orson Welles (written in 1938. and it
would be hard to add a word to them),
on Olivier’s “Hamlet” film, on “The
Skin of Our Teeth,” “The Doctor’s
Dilemma,” O’Neill, Graham Greene
and John Osborne. Even when she
misses the point of a play—as in some
of her notes on Ibsen and Chekhov—
she misses from an interesting angle.
* * * *
The Moon at My Feet: Katharine
Sim (Hodder and Stoughton). This
idyllic love-story of an Englishwoman
and a young Malay has a reassuring
prologue, and no color-bar clouds its
romantic surface. The descriptive
background of Malaya is authentic;
the author knows and loves the
country, where she and her husband
lived until they were evacuated before
the fall of Singapore. Later they
returned and rented a small village
house where Mrs. Sim studied the
native language, in which she later
passed Government examinations. As
well as being a writer, she is also an
artist, and the attractive, cover-design
and illustrations in the book are her
work. Some of the native customs are
described in colorful style, particu-
larly a Malayan wedding, and although
there is a tendency to elaborate on
daily happenings (such as bathing), the
story is told with attractive simplicity.
A good dash of adventure adds a
bracing note to the romance, especially
when the lovers encounter Communist
terrorists in the mountains and again
when a violent storm threatens the
village and its people.


the Facts on
Here are
mm
Iff
mm
iW.
Si
/.kV
•2S/ ' *’ ' '
N
N
D
Effigy
: *• ■ iV
\if~- -*
im
ji
the Choice of the Experienced Man
on the Land for all Water Supply Needs
PROOF of the overall SUPERIORITY of Steel
Pipe over other types has long been established
—is still being established —on the basis of:
■yit - COSTS LESS—prices include all necessary couplings.
Not subject to damage by termites or rodents.
When laid above ground, minimum possibility of damage
by slock or lire.
No.deterioration from sunlight.
Pressure capacity far greater than most oilier types.
Pressure ratings unaffected by atmospheric temperature
variations.
yt Less likelihood of damage during installation, storing
and handling. 1 .
* Intrinsic .structural strength readily enables overhead,
vertical or building installations to be made with a
minimum of support.
These are the facts that have guided so many
shreivd buyers for so many years.
For OVERALL Performance and Satisfaction, SPECIFY
STEEL PIPE and ORDER Steel Pipe from your local
Hardware Store, Pastoral House
t>
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (distributors) PTY. LTD.
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong, Launceston,
Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
E5A.1.53
