

The Bulletin
Adelaide Show Round-up so
Wednesday, September 2, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


WRITE FOR
PROFIT!
If roF have the urge to write, you can
learn 10 write Successful Stories, Articles,
Written Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars, Verse,
etc. There is a large, and constant demand
for well-written work.
STOTT’S Training will provide you with tire
assistance and knowledge o£ highly-qualified and
experienced Instructors.
Mrs. J. Penna gained £7O for Short Stories
sold while still engaged on her Course.
Mrs. I. King was paid £2l for her sth story.
What these students have done, YOU can?
<lo. If you would like information about
our Courses in Story Writing. Freelance
Journalism, etc., post the Coupon today.
■HSIB
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; t 49 Castle-
reash St., Sydney; 280 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AXD MAIL THIS COVPO\
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 1759)
BOOKHUNTER. Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tee only if successful.
The Red Page
NAMATJIRA
I was once asked, as a nurseryman,
why I included in a list of trees and
shrubs which stand up well to hot and
dry conditions plants of widely differ-
ing habits like the Judas-tree, the ber-
berises, the cotoneasters, the carob-
tree and the acacias. The explanation
seems to lie in the various ways they
conserve their moisture.
The small-leafed or tough-leafed
trees lose less by evaporation than the
soft or large-leafed ones, while the
succulents store-up water in their many
branches. Deep-rooted trees like the
carob find their water far down in the
subsoil and in some parts of Australia
drink the rain years after it has fallen.
On the other hand, some drought-
resistant trees have thoughtfully
equipped themselves with two shifts of
workers. One set of roots spreads
itself over a wide area of the surface
and the other set goes deep down into
the earth, sometimes twenty feet and
over. The surface-workers provide
nourishment when there is moisture in
the subsoil but knock-off altogether
when it dries out. The deep roots then
get to work and cany the plant through
until the next rains, if any.
These facts enable us to understand
why plants of differing habits are able
to accommodate themselves to the
same conditions; they also help to
make us understand the case of poor
Albert Namatjira. I only met Albert
once—that was at a luncheon given in
his honor by a lot of literary and
artistic people.
They all had the very best inten-
tions, but all their good intentions did
was to kill-off poor Namatjira. One
speaker after another got up and
praised this simple landscapist of the
Never Never in terms which would
have been appropriate to a Titian, a
Velasquez or a Leonardo. Albert
understood not one pluriy word of
what they were saying, but sat sipping
his beer in dignified silence, only
smiling softly and bowing gravely every
time his name was mentioned. One
speaker spoke, not without a touch of
envy, I thought, of the astounding
prices Albert was getting for his
pictures; and it has transpired since
his death that he got over £50.000 for
his paintings, yet died as penniless as
Rembrandt.
The speaker didn’t understand
Namatjira. The aborigine had one
set of roots on the surface and another
set deep down in his tribal tradition;
and his tribal tradition, grounded in
the dread necessities of the desert, told
him that anything he picked-up had
to be shared amongst his aunts, uncles,
cousins, nephews, sisters and brothers,
unto the third and fourth generation
of them that loved him; and they loved
him more than ever now that he had
become a world-famous artist.
So whenever Albert had an exhibi-
tion and his pictures were snapped-up
by eager buyers, the whole Arunta
tribe came in with smiling faces and
landed on his doorstep. There was a
grand jamboree and eating and drink-
ing and fighting till everything was
finished and the tribe was faced with
the grim prospect of having to go back
to the lizards and bardies of the desert:
so they all sat around looking reproach-
fully at Father Christmas Namatjira
and wondering why he didn’t go back
to his painting.
Which, of course, was the one thing
he wanted to do because, within his
limits, he was the real artist. He was
the real artist inasmuch as he was
completely focused on his painting and
was thoroughly unambitious. So off
Albert would go and paint another lot
of pictures, which would again sell like
hot cakes. Then there would be
another jamboree until the funds were
once more exhausted, when back he
would go to his painting. Could any
dedicated artist wish for better condi-
tions?
So it was idiotic of his white well-
wishers to break the spell by uprooting
him from the soil of the Arunta and
transplanting him to the snob soil of
the great white cities where only the
ambitious flourish; and it was even
more ridiculous to give him white
man’s status, because it immediately
put him into conflict with his tribal
ethic and made it a crime for him to
share even a bottle of beer with his
black brother. This was, in fact, the
“crime” for which he was put in jail.
You might as well put a tomato in jail
because it won’t behave like a lettuce.
They broke poor Albert’s heart, the
noodles, with their good intentions. He
made one more effort to get back to his
beloved ghost-gums and purple ranges,
but the joy had gone out. He had no
roots left, poor fellow, neither surface
nor deep-rooted, and, like a twig stuck
in the ground, his leaves died and he
perished.
M. G. Skipper.
Lamond Again
In his new novel, Sheep Station
(Faber), Henry G. Lamond’s chief
characters are not animals but people.
The people, however, are hardly
more complex in their needs and
motives than the animal heroes and
heroines of his earlier novels. The
central figure, a young man, travels
around Central Queensland getting
experience with sheep in the early
1900's, buys a block of his own out
beyond Longreach, battles his way
through season after season to final
mastery of his land and stock, then
“goes in search of a mate” and gets
her. As a person he is much the same
at the end of the book as he was at the
start. He knew what he wanted, he
knew how to get it, and he got it. He
is more like a calculating-machine
than a complex, spontaneous human-
being creating himself; and all the
squatters and stationhands he meets
are hardly less wooden.
Much of the novel’s narrative and
dialogue is weighted with local his-
tory and lore, so that the characters
often seem to be drawn together for
no other reason than to clue you up
on sheep-sales and droving, droughts
and breeding, etc. Though many of
these dialogue stories are entertaining
and instructive, the contrivance is
often uncomfortably obvious. Perhaps
it could have been avoided—and the
passage of time better mastered—by
using the first-person or even the diary
method of narration.
The .people’s surroundings, on the
other hand, come quivering to life, and
one suspects that this all along has
been Lamond’s main business; to
describe once again his beloved
Central Queensland; what it looks like
from season to season and how it was
pioneered. Anyway, the land and the
plants and animals on it and the birds
that wheel above it quickly become
(Continued on page 66)


m
m
> ‘•■l*
m
•• .
IF'
u-r
Ift
ft
t! v.
. Kiimi
Agents are always welcome
People insure with people they trust,
and what a wealth of trust and confidence is
placed in the INA —Insurance Company of
North America —Agent ... he represents
the oldest and strongest Fire and Marine
Insurance Company in U.S.A., which brings
security to many thousands of Australians.
The INA Agent finds his clients are his
friends, his friends his clients.
INA’s activities are worldwide, but
through its many thousands of Agents, and
the confidence it places in them, it brings
to you the advantage of a highly personal
service. INA is, in fact, a friendly Com-
pany which likes to interpret its insurance
contracts in a spirit of compromise and
reasonableness.
It will be in your interest to ask an
INA Agent for his help in completing your
General Household policies (home and
contents and personal effects), Business
policies (fire with consequential loss of
profits, public risk, burglary, plate glass,
personal accident and all sickness), Marine
policies (intrastate, interstate and inter-
national), Tourist Travel and Luggage
Protection.
I IMA
INSURANCE BY NORTH AMERICA
Insurance Company of North America
Incorporated in U.S.A. with Limited Liability.
BRANCHES AT SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • AUCKLAND, N.Z.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Sept. 2, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4151
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
/
Directors:
H. K. Prior • David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE REAL WORLD PROBLEM
'T'HE Prime Minister’s account of his
recent tour abroad, as given in a
television interview last week, seemed
full of optimism until it was analysed.
While almost everybody he met at a
high level is giving lip-service to
“peace,” most are not even fully at
peace with their allies. The suspicions
of the United Kingdom about America,
the resistances of the Americans to
any scheme which they themselves did
not father.' the doubts of Adenauer
about British goodwill and the dour
isolation of de Gaulle all show
through the diplomatic and political
gloss.
Mr. Menzies has changed his mind
about summit conferences, “because in
the last two years we have seen such
a tremendous acceleration of the
Soviet propaganda about a peace-
offensive—as if only the Communist
States wanted peace and we didn’t.”
But as this has been normal to
Communist publicity and to its effects,
it is disquieting that it has not had
an impact on Mr. Menzies long ago.
It has always been a revolting
thought that the Communists—their
hands steeped in the blood of minori-
ties and small nations which they have
ravaged and immolated —should be
allowed to represent themselves alone
as wanting peace, “when everybody
knows that all the wars and rumors of
wars since the Great War have been
the result of their actions.” '
Unfortunately, this is not wholly
true; for “everybody” does not seem
to know these facts, and there is an
alarming tendency among supposedly
educated people, and particularly
among politicians and among editors,
to accept the curious and tortuous
reasoning of the Kremlin publicists.
While all the Western leaders talk
in stock phrases to each other and
the world at large, there is no doubt
about the tremendous upsurges in
Asia which are leading away from
Western civilisation and security.
This upsurge is largely due to the
access which the average man and
woman now have to means of hearing
the opinion of agitators. These latter,
though they often are of the intellectual
quality and type of young Mr. Lee at
Singapore, who took double first-class
honors at Cambridge, are scarcely
equipped to redraft civilisation as they
are attempting to do. They are mainly
of little practical capacity.
YjUHATEVER may be expected from
meetings of national heads at the
present juncture, with all the political
baby-talk that goes with them, the hard
truths of the world situation are that
the erosion of capitalist Asia under
Communist pressures is not being held
back by Seato, Anzus and U.N., and
that China is getting its own way
almost wherever it wants it.
How far China is prepared to go in
its activities against India along the
Tibetan border is a matter for concern
to all the Western peoples and a
challenge to Nehru’s policy of detach-
ment from the West-East struggle. If
China presses on, the dangers of the
position may become more clear-cut
to the Western press as well as to
undecided Asians.
The nations which have risen against
the West most strongly are those
which have both Communist backing
and Western press-support for their
efforts but are not yet within the Com-
munist fold. These are being shown
how to organise their way out of the
Western zone into a world in which
there is no “colonialism”—and in
which, incidentally, they will be apt to
become the playthings of Communist
policy and Communist economics.
While summit conferences and suave
protestations of good intent from the
West are achieving very little, the
results of force are evident in Europe
and Asia (and central America), as are
those of the disintegration of settled
associations between civilising and not-
yet - fully - civilised or modernised
nations with starveling economies and
no hope without external aid of feed-
ing and clothing increasing populations.
Though lip-service is given to the
matter, it is not yet sufficiently can-
vassed that the real problems of the
world are economic, and the Com-
munist countries have an advantage in
the shape of a fellow-feeling for the
countries at a low economic level and
with only rudimentary senses of
democracy.
To these latter the proceedings of
the Moscow and Peking Governments
are not nearly so shocking as they are
to more tenderly nurtured Western
democracies. It can scarcely be
expected that regimes like those of
Castro in Cuba and Kassem in Iraq
will be shocked at a little barbarous
blood-letting and suppression of free
thought. At the same time they are
bound by a thread of self-pity, born of
inferiority complex, to the Soviet
Union, which is in much the same
position as themselves, looking up
enviously at the comfortable democra-
cies living the life of Riley without
the aid of jackboot or burp-gun.
The failure of the West seems to
have been in emphasis on the matters
in which global unity of effort is most
needed. The American press has
gloated at the gradual break-up of the
British Empire, and has actually done
its utmost to bring about the disinte-
gration. It and the political leaders
whom it supports, and who support
it, have certainly tried to aid economic-
ally the countries which have turned
themselves adrift from their estab-
lished anchorages, but have been care-
ful to isolate the effort so that
America may have the credit for it.
AT the same time, it has been taken
as a sine qua non that the United
Kingdom, struggling towards recovery
after a crippling war of which it for
too long bore virtually the whole
brunt, has been failing in its duty to
keep afloat the backward countries,
once its colonies, which have repudi-
ated it through the mouths of Cam-
bridge double-firsts whom its universi-
ties have taught to be spellbinders in
the English language.
The basic need is a concerted effort
by the West both to develop self-help
among, and the resources of, weak
nations until they are immune from
either temptation or aggression emanat-
ing from Moscow and Peking. Also,
to generate the realisation that -this is
a common effort by Western civilisa-
tion and not a piecemeal series of
manoeuvres each stemming from selfish-
ness and accompanied by a desire to
deprecate the good offices of allies, as
has been the case too often.
For direct relationships with
Moscow, the best instrument of com-
munication is strength, because no
persuasion is likely to be effective
without it. Moscow does not speak
the language of the West or even
understand its idiom.
Except the words “hands off” when
they are backed by the power to crack
the knuckles of snitching fingers reach-
ing-out for strategic titbits in the hands
of the rival economic system.
It would be a great step forward if
the U.S.S.R. and China could join in
a world effort to balance-up the
unequal economies of the world. But
this is not possible, because the Com-
munist nations are still among the low-
standard countries except as regards
propaganda effort and military might,
which have been first considerations
with the Governments of both of them.


SUCCESSFUL OPENING


PLAIN ENGLISH
Trouble in the North
Europe may be moving towards world
peace, but there are no signs of peace in
Asia, to which the Communist pressures
have been shifted according to the ebb-
and-flow tactics which traditionally
emanate from Moscow and Peking.
Last week when specious Russian
Notes were being circulated to the
Western Powers and most eyes were
watching the arrangements for the meet-
ing of President Eisenhower and Com-
rade Khrushchev, the situation in Laos
was going from bad to worse with
Peking threatening, Moscow backing-up
the threats, and a piecemeal nibbling at
Laotian military positions screening the
gradual assembly of Communist forces
in the rear. By the weekend the
U.S. was arranging an urgent arms-lift
to Laos to “withstand an extensive
Communist design.”
The Communist game appears to be
to build strength and produce fear to
compel the Western Powers to act in a
way that can be interpreted as aggres-
sion. It is all insidious and provocative
when combined with the encroachments
into Ladakh and other border regions
of India which are now being claimed
for China on the ground that the local
religion is Buddhist. Lhasa has been
taken-over by Communists as the head-
quarters of Buddhism; therefore the
Buddhist regions in India are part of
the Communist area!
It has been discovered that the
Chinese have actually built a road into
the Indian-protected border State of
Ladakh —a road which can be intended
for only one purpose. Even Nehru
appears to have learnt how little weak-
ness and conciliation pay when dealing
with the predatory conquerors of the
North, and his tune has changed
materially. He has told the Communists
that India will certainly defend Sikkim
and Bhutan against any invasion of their
borders, but the invaders are probably
asking what he has to defend them with.
It cannot be done without heavy outside
aid.
These events, minor as they may seem,
are the best of indicators about the
kind of faith which lies behind Khrush-
chev's pious aspirations for “peace.”
They suggest that his suave protesta-
tions in Europe are merely a part of
the plan to cover-up fresh and vital
advances southward for which the
moment is well chosen, having regard
to the approaching elections in Britain
and the United States, the preoccupation
of de Gaulle with domestic problems
and with the Algerian war, the divi-
sions among the Nato allies, and the
economic disturbance in Indonesia, where
Soekarno’s plans have a Communist
flavor. The chaos which rules in Java
will be helpful to world-Communism.
Other Times, Other Views
Queensland Labor Governments during
the long period of Labor rule which
began during World War I were notori-
ous for the manner in which they made
Parliament safer and safer for their own
brand of “democracy.” They abolished
the Upper House. They reduced from
72 to 62 the number of members in the
single House that remained in spite of
the increasing population.
When the pattern of growth began to
alter in a way that promised to turn the
scales against them, they (in 1949)
increased the strength of the Assembly
not only from 62 to 75 members, but
divided the State in a curious manner
into four compartments in each of which
the electoral quotas were different and
calculated to return the greatest possible
overall Labor majority.
The 1957 election saw this system
defeated through the split in the Labor
party. The C.P.-Liberals came back with
42 seats.
Now, in accordance with its election
pledges, the Nicklin Government pro-
poses to implement the recommendations
of a three-man electoral commission—
the Surveyor-General, the Public Service
Commissioner and a barrister.
Metropolitan seats will be increased
from 24 to 28, country regional seats
reduced by one. Five or six Labor men
are certain to lose their seats by the
changes, and about 11 will find it much
harder to win than last time. Many old
electoral names Barcoo, Charters
Towers, Fitzroy, Ithaca disappear.
Mr. Gair, one of the fathers of the
old system, who finds himself in a strong
Labor seat, had no comment to make
when the alteration was announced last
w'eek. He may have something to gain
by it —or at least nothing to lose. But
Mr. Duggan, official leader of the
Opposition and Australian Labor, was
driven almost to the point of apoplexy
by his indignation: “Not in 100 years of
self-government has Queensland seen
such an outrageous example of cunning
vindictiveness and cold contempt of
public feelings . . . such a shocking lack
of political principle . . . blatant gerry-
mandering.”
Mr. Duggan, whose seat at Too-
woomba has been sliced in halves, must
have been sound asleep for the past 40
years ; Mr. Gair seems to be asleep
now.
Test for Mr. Holt.
Treasurer Harold Holt cannot be
looking forward to this week, when his
Post Office and its new exactions will be
not only talked about with growing heat
and indignation, but voted upon for the
first time, before being decanted into
the Senate to be examined a second ,
time.
Some Labor papers will suffer heavily
by the new bulk-postage imposts, but
they feel they can afford it when they
see what is being done to some of the
country weeklies hostile to Labor and
other journals that are circulated mostly
through the post.
The burden imposed by the new postal
and telegraphic rates will be all the
heavier and more inflationary because
it comes on the heels of the 15s. a week
rise in the Federal basic wage.
Ministers are, of course, inundated
with protests from every quarter, and
it is an open secret that many Country-
party members are nearly in a state of
rebellion, particularly as none of their
Ministers seems to have known the
implications of the rises before they
were analysed after the Budget speech
was delivered.
The Government is lucky that the
daily press has mostly surveyed the
imposts with cynical complacency. This
has its origin in the fact that they will
be hit far less heavily than the soberer
weeklies and monthlies and the country
papers competing with them and which
post a far greater proportion of their
issues. Indeed, effect might be to destroy
some of these papers which eat into the
circulation of the metropolitan dailies
and bring them still closer to monopoly.
Sydney “Herald” has even gone the
length of saying in a leading-article that
“despite the errors of detail in the fram-
ing of these measures” —for increasing
postal and telephone charges —“the
principle behind them is sound.”
The N.S.W. State Council of the
Country party last week had an angry
discussion of the whole matter and took
the unusual step of deciding to send its
strong protest to Cabinet. The Govern-
ment will be lucky if it is not faced with
some rebellious back-benchers in the
House of Representatives.
And it would certainly add to the
reputation for strength and independence
which is gradually growing round the
Senate, with the advent of a new
membership, if it took a stand in this
matter in keeping with the opinions of
the majority of Senators and. not with
those served out to it from the pan-
jandrums of the Treasury who are
obviously the authors and dictators of
these new taxes on business-expansion
and on the more responsible types of
journalism.
Overseas Investment Policy
Harold Holt’s “Sir Arthur Warner has
very little to gripe about. He was made a
very attractive offer and accepted it,”
wasn’t a reply at all, but simply a flippant
diversion from the specific complaint of
'the chairman of Electronic Industries,
Ltd. The Prime Minister also merely
parried, and did not answer, a question
in the Representatives on the same
subject.
Sir Arthur had stated quite simply
that one of his reasons for selling a large
block of shares in Electronic to Pye, Ltd.,
of England, was Canberra’s trade and
import policy which helped companies
with overseas shareholdings more than all-
Australian companies.
His experience had been that import-
licensing, by-law concessions to foreign
companies, tariff-concessions and pref-
erence were all designed to encourage
foreign investment in Australia.


Supplementary reasons for the sale are
that the close financial association with
a strong scientific developmental com-
pany would assist Electronic, and pros-
pective probate makes large family-
holdings in big companies almost
impossible to maintain.
Sir Arthur Warner claimed that his
political position encouraged him to
divert family interests from private enter-
prise to Government bonds, and in that
event the encouragement was rather
sudden ; but there is no reason to doubt
his chief reason for the sale —the Federal
Government’s trade and import policy.
His backers, the Abrahams family, are
not short of cash. Indeed, the Melb-
ourne Abrahams have had the reputation
for a generation of having cash even
when no one else has it. Their, and Sir
Arthur Warner’s, endeavors in building
a leading Australian industry, an experi-
ence neither Mr. ,Menzies nor his protege
has enjoyed, entitled them to a more
courteous reply on such an important
issue of national policy.
Introduction
[From “Collins Street”]
The off-course tote-betting bill outlined
by Premier Bolte to the Victorian Par-
liamentary Liberals is no more than a
measure to take over the businesses now
operated by the larger starting-price
illegal bookmakers.
No cash-betting will be permitted,
which means that the back-lane cash-
bookmaker for small punters will con-
tinue to operate, despite the drastic
penalties Bolte proposes to introduce.
The chief value to the New Zealand
community of the off-course tote is its
cash basis. Credit-betting, by the estab-
lishment by the client of a cash-credit, is
permitted, but it is a comparatively
trivial part of the total turnover, and
the overwhelming preference is for cash
down at the time of the bet.
As expected, the Totalisator Board
will be handed-over to the racing- and
trotting-clubs to conduct, and the Gov-
ernment’s interest will be merely in the
amount it collects in percentages for the
Hospital and Charities Commission
Fund.
The board will appoint offices or
agencies to accept cash for credits when
no important race-meetings are being
held, and backers may then make bets
by telephone, mail or telegram. The off-
course tote will establish its own credits
with the on-course tote for the total of
its investments on behalf of its clients.
The dividends will be the on-course tote-
dividends.
This sort of s.-p. betting will be pre-
dominantly by telephone, as large-scale
s.-p. business is now operated ; but there
is little doubt, if the telephone-branch
runs true to form, the telephone-facilities
will be supplied smartly. The P.M.G.’s
Department announced the same day
there was a backlog of 16,000 telephones
ordered which could not be met.
Sir Chester Manifold, at least one of
the most admirable chairmen in the
V.R.C.’s history, asked directly why the
Government hadn’t gone the whole way
and made it possible for people to make
off-course cash-bets, since the scheme
would have no appeal for the thousands
who bet in lanes and streets in defiance
of the law.
The answer seems to be Ministerial
timidity, or, more kindly, prudence. Few
Parliamentarians of any party have had
the salutary experience of* watching the
smooth, pleasant working of the off-
course tote in New Zealand, and the
new bill may be designed to be no more
than an introduction to its final, full
adoption, ending one of the nastiest
blots on the Australian scene—the back-
lane congregation.
India—the Keystone
[By “R. R. D.”]
However patiently President Eisenhower
may work towards persuading the Euro-
pean nations to speak with one voice
about Berlin, the fact remains that the
present stage of Communist strategy aims
at conquering Asia. It’s easy to forget
this fact, because so many diversions
obscure the issue. But Australians will
forget it at their peril.
Once this simple fact is recognised,
Communist action is plain and logical.
Broadly speaking, the Russians and
Chinese have been allowed to gain
control of the greater part of Asia
against very light opposition from the
Western nations. The claws of the Com-
munist pincer are now almost ready to
close round the massif of the Indian
sub-continent, where the struggle for
Asia must eventually be decided.
This struggle has been inevitable ever
since the Communist imperialists started
to move. It’s easy to say that it would
not have happened if the British hadn’t
given independence to India and
Pakistan. That may be true —and
perhaps, w r ith the strong mobile reserve
of the Army in India available, the
whole of Asia might have been saved.
But, for better or for worse, circum-
stances at the time made it impossible
for the British to act in any other way.
It may be argued that India and
Pakistan have brought this threat upon
themselves. Instead of looking out-
wards across the perimeter, they have
spent their time glaring at each other
over the Kashmir demarcation-line and,
worse, they have wasted their defence-
resources on this deployment. That is
certainly true ; these great countries (and
the rest of the world) may yet suffer
for this internecial strife —perhaps with
Kashmir lost to both.
Pandit Nehru, the mouthpiece of
India, has done all he can to keep his
country’s neutrality. At times he has
seemed to swing much too far towards
the Communists. But, lawyer and man
of w'ords that he may be, his action was
not quite so illogical as it might have
seemed to harsher critics.
What else could he have done, while
carrying out the great social experiment
he started when the British left? The
north-eastern frontier of India has been
open to the Chinese whenever they have
wished to invade, and Nehru must have
known that he had no power to stop
them coming whenever they chose, unless
he had the whole Indian nation behind
him. Until now he has not been sure
that he had that support, so, with
external help unlikely to arrive in time
and internal dissension distinctly possible,
there was nothing for it but to speak
softly to his unwelcome neighbors.
Chinese troop-movements in Assam
and Ladakh have now brought matters
to a head. Nehru has spoken plainly,
and presumably means what he says this
time when he tells the Chinese to clear
out.
It is time for the rest of the free
world to recognise that the threat to the
northern frontier of India is the begin-
ning of the assault on the last remaining
stronghold on the mainland of free Asia.
For Australia this recognition is vital.
Opposition a Shadow
[From Canberra]
Never has there been a weaker, more
disunited rabble trading under the name
of her Majesty’s Opposition than the
43-odd allegedly A.L.P. members form-
ing that body in the Federal Parliament
today.
It has been obvious for some years
now that the Opposition has been weak,
but never was it more clearly evidenced
than last week when, for no apparent
reason, the Opposition missed a once-
in-a-session opportunity to embarrass
the Government beyond belief.
On Tuesday afternoon (August 25)
Roy Wheeler, N.S.W. Liberal member,
criticised the Government’s administra-
tion of Papua and New Guinea, at the
same time taking a mild crack at Terri-
tories Minister Paul Hasluck.
Such an attack is not surprising from
Wheeler.
However, the bombshell came later
the same night when Queensland Liberal
Malcolm McColm demanded Hasluck’s
resignation from his Cabinet portfolio
and transference to another post.
When McColm was making his denun-
ciation of a Minister of his own Govern-
ment, a count of heads showed not
more than 10 Labor members in the
Chamber, and not one of them even
interjected.
Amongst the absentees were Leader
Evatt, his Deputy Cal well, and most
other members of the “Shadow Cabinet.”
The Opposition cannot plead that they
didn’t know the denunciation w'as “on,”
because it was common gossip in the
lobbies two hours before McColm spoke
that he intended to call for Hasluck’s
resignation.
From its unbelievable display (what-
ever the merits or otherwise of the
attacks on Hasluck) the Opposition
has proved w'hat has been thought
for a long time—it is so concerned with
its own internal upheavals that it has
forgotten its role in Parliament,
namely, to keep the Government on its
toes and, as politicians, score from the
Government at every opportunity.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Some Victorian pubs now sell ballpoint
pens ; it’s such a novelty to have
something around the place that’s capable
of writing when it’s full. —“Barra.”
*** ♦!+
“Stronach”: My son John was help-
ing an old Maori dig the garden. “Ben,”
he said, “what’s the Maori for motor-
car?” Ben said, “I’ll spell it for you:
M-o-t-u-k-a.” Johnny bit hard: “How
do you pronounce it?” “Motor-car,” said
Ben happily.
♦i« ❖
“Doynest”: A Melbourne racehorse-
doping case looked like extending, and
the judge ordered that the jury should
not be released until the numbers went
up. Next day the Crown Prosecutor
asked if TV could be provided for their
evening entertainment. The judge
agreed to this first request for a photo-
finish in Melbourne jury history. Watch-
ing TV could be a relief after a hard day
in the jurybox —provided the 12 good
men and true could arrive at a decision
on the programme before the stations
closed-down for the night.
* * ❖
Pat Lawlor: Visiting Sydney after 22
years, the strangest sight I saw was at
the Zoo. A nettlesome crowd complained
outside the cage of King Kong, packed
with people guzzling cakes and beer.
“Who are they?” asked somebody in a
loud voice. “You mean what are they?”
said another. “I presume they’re the
next-of-kin.” I found that the muster
in the cage represented an opening cere-
mony in honor of King Kong’s first
appearance. Later the cage was cleared
and in ambled the guest. He beat his
chest in anguish when he found that his
hosts had devoured the eats.
* * *
“Tamar Park”: Mayor McGowen, of
Launceston (Tas.), has been telling the
press about the embarrassment he and
the Mayoress have felt at such functions
as when she was the only woman present,
when he was down for a speech and had
to give the first part of his meal to
preparation, and when his formal dress
was the only one on view. The City
Council has now had a questionnaire
printed for organisations desiring the
Mayor’s presence: What dress will be
worn? Is the Mayor or Mayoress
required to speak? If so, give details.
What parking arrangements will be
made? I recall one Mayor who might
frequently have been seen streaking for
the town library’s reference-section a
few minutes before he was due at some
function. Listeners used to wonder at his
extraordinary stock of knowledge, but
the library assistants hurriedly collecting
typed material for him could have
answered that one!
❖ *X* ❖
“Zake”: From just behind me at the
cocktail-party I heard a gasp: “Just get
an eyeful of this atrocity coming in,
Mavis. Isn’t it frightful! Looks like a
decapitated fowl has landed on her head
and stuck there.” I followed the speaker’s
eye and had to admit that her description
was accurate ; and then I caught sight of
the hats the critics themselves were
sporting. One appeared to be an old
handleless jerry which had sprouted a
pair of cerise wings ; the other was the
first inverted bird’s-nest I have ever seen
with a bow tied round it.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Souwester”: Wife of a dairyfarmer
and mother of four, there wasn’t much
occasion in her life for frills and
furbelows. Asked at short notice to take
part in a concert and requested to wear
evening-dress, she unearthed a relic of
when she worked in a city office. Morale
received a slight boost from the ecstatic
admiration of her eight-year-old
daughter: “Gee, Mum, you look beaut!
Can 1 have that dress when you grow
out of it?”
“Well, why didn't you TELL me you'd never installed a bird-bath?"
HAILS AND FAREWELLS
“Victorian Agent-General Sir
Leggatt found authorities for Melba's birth
between 1859 and 1865. Her sister-in-law, Mrs.
Ernest Mitchell, says May 19, 1861. If 1859
had been correct, Sir William pointed out, we
would have missed commemorating Melba’s
centenary.”
They say, when moving heaven and
earth
To find the date of Melba’s birth :
“To err about such things is human,
And she was worse than that —a woman,
And though she ruled an age of song
She never liked to think how long.’’
The stories anecdotage tells
About her many fond farewells
Explain why .Melba weft might choose
As many years for her debuts,
Contriving Jo be born alive
From ’Fifty-nine to ’Sixty-five.
I can’t agree, then, to infer
Coyness about her age in her:
She was —great artists have to be —-
A genius for publicity,
Securing, by her usual tricks,
Not one centenary, but six !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Cheeking a successor to the well
loved pooch whose untimely death
had rent our household, I had gone to
interview a pup from a Corgi kennel. On
lifting it up that 12-week-oldster
promptly pushed a wet, cold conk against
mine and slapped a tongue with furious
joy over my dial. It was obviously a
case of love at first sight, and not only
on one side, either. The deal being
clinched, I rang the woman, another
breeder, who had recommended that par-
ticular kennel, her own being then out
of stock of pups. When I announced
that I had found that pup irresistible
she laughed and said, “I’ll bet it licked
your face!” I admitted it, whereupon
she laid it down that it’s the pup’s unfail-
ing method of self-salesmanship. And,
come to think of it, I’ve bought pups all
my life that way. Now, as a dog-lover,
I ask the cat-lovers this —how do they
select kittens? Not by this method,
surely! A fummy’s tongue, in contra-
distinction to a pup’s satiny one, is like
a piece of middle-grade sandpaper.—
“Bo.”
i* ♦♦♦ *
“Winner Lose”: She told her class of
the father who spent all his wages at the
s.p.-shops and pubs. There was no furni-
ture in the gambler’s house. His children
had no shoes, no warm clothing, no
blankets, and were blue with cold. Mum
toiled over great baskets of washing
that she had carried four streets so that
she could get enough money to pay next
week’s rent. The teacher was proud of
her story. A small boy, when she paused
for breath, shot up his hand: “Please
Miss, it’s not so bad if you put your
money on the place-tote! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Old Gippsland”: Curl as may the
male lip anent whimsical colors, like Cha-
cha, Soul-secret and Hot-ziggety, as-
cribed to female legwear, only a while
back the hose was on t’other foot. The
Duchess of Montpensier scathingly
chronicled that the over-perfumed 17th-
century fop had a choice of 50 stocking-
shades, including Lost-time, Resuscitated-
corpse, Mortal-sin, Dying-monkey, and
others too squalid for polite pages.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“C.A.A.”: I was almost across the
intersection when a smart single-
seater coming fast on my left shaved my
bows. Breathing a sigh of relief at a
narrow escape I nearly missed the sign,
“Courtesy Officer,” on the offside of the
speedster’s body. And was even more
amazed to catch a glimpse of the driver
—a woman !
<s* *Z* ♦>
“O-Twit”: Veteran flyer Jimmy
Woods, 65, staged a one-man struggle
on August 5, when he tried to repair his
Anson before he decided on an emerg-
ency landing. He was in the tail getting
his tools while his kite, which has no
automatic pilot, was flying itself !
Reminded me of training at Point Cook
early in World War 11. Another trainee
“And make it snappy — I’m double-parked."
and I were out on air-to-ground gunnery
at 500 ft. along the coast at Little River.
Busy in the turret getting rid of my rounds
I noticed that the Anson wasn’t flying as
smoothly as it could, and had a look to see
why Pen was fooling about. He was out
of his seat, down on his knees on the floor,
struggling with the petrol-cocks!
❖ ❖ *■>
“M.J.C.”: Melbourne’s hospitality was
not appreciated by a Hobartian about to
return from a mainland holiday. A man
approached him and suggested that if he
was sailing in the Taroona there was
a short-cut down by some oil-stores.
Halfway along he was attacked, and on
regaining consciousness, ' was minus
watch and £lO, and only just had time
to catch the boat.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ailse'y”: The magistrate’s chair at
Belmont (N.S.W.) court-house carries the
inscription, bitten deep into it with a
metal stamp, “V.R., August, 1883.” It
needs respringing. It is believed to have
come from either the Catherine Hill Bay
or Charlestown court-houses when they
were closed down. Most of the Govern-
ment’s last-century furniture is of cedar.
The counter at Newtown (Sydney) court-
house, when refurbished, as it is about
once in a generation, is a poem in
French polish.
•
♦5 *>
“Jaygee”: Deputy Prime Minister and
Leader of the Country party McEwen
visited Shepparton (Vic.) on August 3
to present the ship’s bell of H.M.A.S.
Shepparton to the town in appreciation
of its interest in the welfare of the crew.
The Shepparton was launched on August
15, 1942, one of 60 of her class built in
Australia. She went into service on
February 1, 1943, and made valuable
surveys and mine-sweepings during the
war. She was sold to Japanese interests
in 1958 for breaking-up. The president
of the ex-Navalmen’s Association, Mr.
R. Cottrell, presented Mr. McEwen with
a miniature of the bell mounted above a
chromed ash-tray. Mr. McEwen said he
would keep the bell “on his desk and
nowhere else.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bianca”: A new form of torture has
been thought out, not by nasty, rough
schoolboys, but by dear little schoolgirls.
The small madams push out their tunics
with petticoats that have bells sewn into
their voluminous folds. Take 20 demure,
well-dressed young ladies and an equal
number of easily amused boys, and one
more young teacher is wishing he had
chosen dentistry or farming.
♦2l-
- Lorraine”: Hand-knitted
sweaters “felted and shrunken” after
one year’s wear (B. 8/7/’59)? Not in our
house. Of our assortment of hand-
knitted garments dating back 12 years —
long before shrink-proofing—all are
much-darned, some are rather faded,
some, too loosely-knitted, have stretched,
but the only felting is where wool has
been exposed to body-acids, as in the feet
of socks, or babies’ clothes. Hand-
knitted sweaters are worn till they fall
to pieces—on the average, about 10 years.
Yarn for hand-knitted makes them little


cheaper than the shop’s machine-made,
but the home product is more popular
because it lasts longer. As for syn-
thetics, the men say they may look like
wool, handle like wool and require less
darning, but that when you’re out in a
sleet-storm, with the thermometer in
the 20’s, they don’t feel like wool. Our
woollens are usually washed in rain-
water and never with detergents, other-
wise we take only the usual precautions,
and I can’t imagine why “Narumee” has
had such poor success with hers.
“Mugga Way”: Masters, like Norman
Lindsay, of the craft of making ship-
models must feel a bit amused by the
craze for plastic kits, which have every-
thing in proper shape, requiring merely
to be glued together, painted, and rigged.
But it was horrifying to see that three
sailors in a German freighter calling at
Sydney had “made” quite a number of
these models for presentation to their
girl-friends at home ; old salts must have
called for their smelling-salts.
/Chairman of the A.J.C. Potter told
members that the £19,407 which his
club lost last season “wasn’t as bad as
it looked.”' Reminds me of when I lose
a fiver at Mr. Potter’s races—it’s not
nearly as bad as it looks until I search
my wallet later and find , it really isn’t
there.—“P.O.M.C.”
{o
“Doric”: When I was at school, being
a bit of a pianist, the kids used to call
me “Paderewski,” and through the years
I have been labelled —satirically, I’m
sure —after succeeding virtuosi. Now I
get called “Liberace” —and I’m not sure
that I like it very much!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ex-R.S.M.”: In his article on the
work of the coast-watchers (B. 12/8/’59),
Walter Brooksbank mentions Eric Feldt’s
book, The Coast Watchers. I found it
of absorbing interest, particularly as I
knew some of those mentioned in it. I
went back to buy copies for a few
Americans who would have liked to have
read it, but was amazed to find that the
book had been withdrawn from sale.
Since then I have managed to get two
copies secondhand, but apparently the
ban persists. It’s time it was called
off; if ever there was a work which
should go into a paperback and be read
all over the world, this is it.
♦♦♦ *
“Corid”: Like “Maitri’s” hostess (B.
5/8/’59), a woman I know was fortunate
when dining guests. One of her potatoes
seemed rather hard, and she found it was
a lump of washing-soap. She was lucky
in serving it to herself and also that it
had not flavored its pot-fellows.
♦*+
“Lillydale”: Nice that the English
first-nighters at Nottingham for “The
Shifting Heart” got a programme glos-
sary of Aussie slang, but “smelly” as a
translation of “snifter” and “bullying” as
a meaning of “duck-shoving” couldn’t
have been much help. At football “You
little snifter!” is the accolade of a
9st. forward beating a 14st. back
Tor the ball to score. Adjectivally it
approximates “beaut.” “Duck-shoving”
is manoeuvring physically or mentally
ahead of someone morally entitled to be
in front, and derives from the ingenious
ploy of the smaller duck who can’t
get at the pollard. He inserts a beak at
ground-level between the legs of his
guzzling opponent, and with neck-eleva-
tion bucks him backward to the rear
rank.
“Fairf”: Until I noticed the sign on
our railway - station, I’d found it
hard to credit rumors that National Ser-
vice has revealed a percentage of illiter-
ate and semi-illiterate youths among our
native-born Australians. The sign was
a notice instructing all eligible youths
to register for National Service. Across
it had been written in pencil: “Poor
bliteres.”
<J* ♦!« ❖
“P.F.G.S.”: Calling on The Bulletin
I noticed a picture hanging above Miss
McDermott’s chair of “The Charge of
The 4th Light Horse Brigade, at Beer-
sheba, in 1917.” My own squadron, of
the New Zealand Mounted Rifles
(A.M.R.), had just captured the key
position, the mound of Tel-el-Saba, and
from the top, not long afterwards, we
got a real grandstand view of the famous
charge. Just before it I surprised myself
by shooting with my .303 in the wadi
below the mound a fat, wild duck, which
made a mighty welcome change to the
everlasting hard-tack! I never received
any decoration for this feat, but was
always acknowledged a pretty fair shot,
after that, by the boys.
♦♦+
“Kenyas”: The history-master flung
himself down on a chair in the common-
room and covered his face with his
hands. “You can’t beat them,” he
lamented. “I’ve been trying to tell the
class something about political philosophy
and thought I’d made myself clear. Then
I asked ‘What is universal suffrage?’ Only
one boy of the 30 attempted an answer
and he said it was ‘the sufferings of
humanity.’ ”
SERVIETTE-PSYCHOLOGISTS
“Waiters are often very good judges of
character, for it is at mealtimes that a man’s
character is most truly revealed.” —From an
A.B.C. talk.
Of this you'd entertain no doubt:
Your doc. would know you inside-out;
But does he know what makes you
tick?
One could confute those who insist
The expert psychoanalyst
Your character must correctly pick;
Your wife, your friends, even your tyke
Might not know what you’re really
like —
That hidden self you thought that you
Alone must know. But one there is —
The waiter going about his biz —
Who gets to see you through and
through.
The way you twiddle with your fork,
Swoop-up your soup, bog into pork,
Or steer the spuds into your gap ;
The under-breath remarks you make
Sawing like hell at leathern steak;
Or faced by some mysterious pap ;
The nervous look, the way you blench
At seeing the menu all in French;
Your horribly sadistic look
When oyster you’re about to spear —
To waiters these are signs so clear;
Your character’s an open book!
Man’s disposition shows-up worst —
Or best —not where he’ll quench his
thirst,
But where in public he may feed.
No matter what means he’ll devise,
It’s something that he can’t disguise;
No shrewdhead waiter he’ll mislead.
What makes the gargon, then, so good
At sifting character from food,
At stripping mask from heel or drip ?
Is it that he may gain his points
In character-gauging in these joints
Simply by being given the tip ?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


TiyTALE housekeeping methods may be
scorned by housewives, but they
have one great virtue —economy of labor.
If men took as long about household,
chores as women do there just wouldn’t
be time after the day’s work to keep
house. If there doesn’t seem to be
much washing-up after a meal in a
woman’s kitchen the woman will tip left-
over puddings and custards from big
•basins and jugs into smaller basins and
jugs so that the big ones can be washed-
up. Bachelors would put the stuff away
hoping it would be another’s turn to'
wash-up when the dishes were emptied.
Real economy of labor can best be prac-
tised when there’s only one in the camp ;
e.g., my own recipe for stew with a
minimum of washing-up: Put mince, fat
and onions in saucepan ; cook till brown,
add water and boil. Add the various
vegetables at intervals governed by their
cooking-times. Eat straight from sauce-
pan. Soak saucepan ready for morning
egg ; wash spoon. Rest of the night’s
yours.—“Tabba.”
“Dorian”: I see where the Americans
are trying to produce box-shaped peas
so as to make pea-eating a little less of
a shovel-and-scoop affair. All I can say
is, if they succeed, those peas will be
square, man, square.
4*4 fj4
“Bardon”: Wife of a friend began
feeding a stray cat who soon brought
his mates along for the nightly handout
at the foot of the back-stairs. The rest
of his family objected, and the wife
promised to discontinue the practice on
the eve of their departure for three
weeks’ holiday. Their first night back
home saw six patient cats waiting in their
usual place for their meal —the woman
next-door had fed the animals nightly
at the foot of her neighbor’s back-stairs.
If any reader would like a cat for a pet
I know where I can pick up half-a-
dozen.
*z< *>
“Judee”: Sacrilege at Hawk’s Nest, a
beach - resort near Port Stephens
(N.S.W.) —they burned-down a century-
old wine-bar. The premises hadn’t been
licensed for many years, and they were
destroyed to make way for a building-
estate subdivision.
A Vj*
“Hattie Hop”: Re the correct pro-
nunciation of “St. Louis” (B. 12/8/’59),
my American mother, who gave me my
first geography lessons, said “St. Looey”
was right. During the first visit of Sybil
Thorndike and Lewis Casson to Australia
I was at a function where they were
the guests-of-honor. When our hostess
began introductions, Dame Sybil inter-
rupted her sharply with “Lewis, not
Louey. English, not French.” I think
that we should pronounce “St. Louis”
in the French way. No one speaks of
“Lewis the Sixteenth,” I hope. It grates
on me to hear anyone talk of “Connect-
ti-cut,” which is an Indian name, properly
“I repeat, Mr. Madden —have you ever done anything that caused
you to feel shame ?”
pronounced “Conneticut.” When my
parents came to Australia they renamed
their rented home “Ohio,” in which State
they were both born, but abandoned the
idea of giving that name to their second
home because they had been so exasper-
ated when passers-by disputed how it
should be pronounced. Attempts in-
cluded “O-i-o,” “O-ee-ho,” “Ho-i-ho,”
and “O-hi-ho.”
A. A
V V ♦
“Sussex”: When the present motor
registration - plates were introduced,
N. was allotted AAA to FZZ. Vic-
toria GAA to MZZ, Queensland NAA
to QZZ, South Australia RAA to TZZ,
Western Australia UAA to VZZ and
Tasmania WAA to ZZZ. I notice that
in N.S.W. I and Q are not being used,
but they are in use on Queensland plates,
and don’t in any way conflict with J or
O, which is generally supposed to be
the reason why they have been dropped
from the N.S.W. plates.
❖ * *
“Doric”: About 1952 we all gave away
our gramophones and bought three-speed
microgroove radiograms. These were
superseded by hi-fi —and now stereo-
phonies are with us. Or all round us.
One wonders what the next development
will be. And what will it cost? The
amateur disk-jockey is having his work
cut-out trying to stay on.
❖ *fr
“H.C.8.”: But do crooners avoid
sibilance as being “the kiss of death”
(B. 12/8/’59)? That ditty beloved by
crooners a dozen years ago, “Sioux City
Sue,” was surely deliberately perpe-
trated on the strength of its sibilant
alliteration? And if Americans do pro-
nounce St. Louis as “St. Lewis” there
was no good reason why that other Tin
Pan Alley epic could not have run “Meet
me at St. Lewis, Lewis,” instead of
“Louis, Looey.” But to revert to my
original complaint that Uncle Sam doesn’t
mess about with the spelling of his own
placenames, I recall that in the western
novels of my youth characters named
“Cheyenne” (with “Nevada” running a
close second) seemed to be as plentiful in
the cow-country as “blueys” in Aus-
tralia. And there seemed to be some-
thing red-blooded and masculine in
“Cheyenne.” It took TV to shatter my
last illusion: “Cheyenne” is pronounced
in the land of the free as “Shy-Anne”!
♦t» ►;< *5
“Cunedda”: Sydney suburb Enfield’s
lately opened railway-station named
Delec is claimed to be the State’s smallest
—a tidy sort of claim! It was built for
workers going to and from the Enfield
maintenance-depot. All diesel and electric
railway-engines are checked there. The
station’s name was coined from “diesel-
electric.” It is about 100yds. long, and is
built of sleepers, with a miniature signal-
box.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“O’Jai”: In Europe, where male and
female fashion is created, most of the
young men, particularly travellers, carry
nylon bags—mostly airline. In these
holdalls they pack passports, visas, vacci-
nation-certificates, maps, travel-brochures,
cigarettes, matches and the large-sized
currency (notes) common to most Euro-
pean countries. No bulky or bulging
pockets for these adventurous types, with
the result that their unpadded, three-
button coats and narrow trousers look
neat and masculine despite the “hand-
bags” the owners carry.


POLITICAL POINTS
The big political battle for Labor
this week is between the Communist
party and the Rights for final control
of the A.C.T.U. Australian issues will
largely be forgotten as the annual
congress debates whether it should join
the Chinese and Russian Reds in an
exchange of junkets—those from both
sides mainly paid for from Moscow;
whether the A.C.T.U. should go into
the Communist bloc by joining the
W.F.T.U., and whether U.N. should
admit Red China. About the only element
likely to survive the battle intact is
Albert Monk, who seems to be at home
in any political company
• •
Senator Gorton has assured the
Senate that Australia has anti-submarine
vessels and aircraft capable of locating
and sinking conventional and atomic
submarines. The R.A.N. will be glad
to have this news as, judging by the mis-
givings of a good many naval officers,
it didn’t know. It’s to be hoped the
Russians do.
• • '
Playford has reserved to himself the
right to make-up his own mind about
the Stuart royal commission in the face
of pressure-group activity from the
peahen press, academics and others whose
hearts or interests are sometimes stronger
than their knowledge of the facts. The
objective seems to be to destroy the
commission and get Stuart off at any cost
rather than to assure that justice is done.
Scarcely anybody seems to think it a
good idea to see exactly how the com-
mission’s proceedings turn-out before
judging it, though that would appear to
be commonsense.
t
• •
Red China is making it very difficult
for the A.L.P. Nehru was virtually the
architect of the party’s Asian policy
which was framed in the days when Ben
Chifley (to the cheers of Dr. Evatt)
proclaimed him the greatest man in the
world. Now, while Nehru has a motion
before the U.N. Assembly (again cheered
by Dr. Evatt) to admit Red China to
the comity of civilised nations, Red forces
are encroaching on Indian territory.
Exactly how the Federal caucus can get
round that situation even Houdini
wouldn’t know.
• •
While Eisenhower’s visit to Europe
has the air of a series of friendly calls
on fellow heads of States, Khrushchev
and his organisers are working to turn
his trip to America into a large-scale
campaign-tour during which he will visit
only half-a-dozen big cities where he
can best appeal to large crowds at “at
least one big meeting” each. In other
words he proposes to carry-out his tour
as if he were a U.S. politician appealing
to American electors over the heads of
their own leaders.
• •
“P.G.” (Canberra): There’s no chance
of Paul Hasluck being dropped from
Cabinet or being given another portfolio
as a sequel to last week’s denunciation
of him by fellow-Liberal McColm.
Prime Minister Menzies is understood to
have taken no notice whatsoever of
McColm’s outburst and proposes taking
no action —not at this stage, at any rate.
Many members, apart from McColm,
are known to be dissatisfied with
Hasluck’s handling of the Territories
portfolio, but it is doubtful whether
McColm’s attack will stir them into
demanding action from the P.M.
Hasluck doesn’t seem perturbed.
• •
Nasser is not having it all his own
way in Iraq. At the latest batch of
treason-trials last week tape-recordings
were being played to the military high
court to prove his implication in the
Mosul and other plots against the
Kassem regime. One speech praised
Colonel Aref, the leader of the Arab
nationalists in Iraq, and attacked
Kassem. Cairo’s noisy contortionist
will become even more unpopular on
the Tigris now that he has sought
rapprochement with Jordan.
• •
Khrushchev’s statement to West
Germany, “We may turn from further
isolation to gradual rapprochement and
adjustment of outstanding issues to the
peaceful coexistence of all States,” is a
fascinating piece of double-talk. The
Order of Lenin and two rubles’-worth
of hot bortsch is offered to anybody who
can pin any real meaning to it. Not
that it is intended to have any meaning
merely to sound well to parlor-pinks
and leader-writers.
• •
Sir William Hudson turned-up in Mel-
bourne for one of the few really informa-
tive Meet the Press TV-interviews. The
commissioner of the Snowy Mountains
Authority now estimates the scheme has
cost £l4O million to date, when finished
will cost £375 million, will have about
80 miles of tunnels, and will pay for
itself with the revenue it receives from
sales of electricity.
Sir William reckons a nuclear power-
station scheme would have cost more ;
and, of course, with the Snowy scheme
irrigation-water will be supplied free, a
vital consideration in the world’s driest
continent, whose population will depend
ultimately on the conservation of water.
“Up above the world so high,
Like a diamond in the sky.”


Terms of reference and personnel for
the Commonwealth Taxation Inquiry will
be before Cabinet this week, and the
sooner the better. The inquiry will take
some time, and the need to rectify
anomalies is urgent.
• •
Rattled by the open sneers of the well-
heeled s.-p. bookies and the jeers of
racing-men for his half-baked off-course
tote, Bolte has been threatening to jail
s.-p. bookies for a first offence and to
fine punters who bet with them.
He is reckoning without Parliament.
Nobody could predict what the Victorian
Legislative Council would do with any
accuracy, but it is extremely doubtful if
the Legislative Assembly would agree to
the imprisonment of a man who provided
the book for the little punters who will
be ignored in Bolte’s bill.
• •
One of the most resounding political
gaffes of recent years was committed by
the usually fairly accurate Sydney
“Herald.” In an editorial on August 22
it castigated the N.S.W. Liberals for
failing to follow what the newspaper
believed to be the Victorian example of
a combined Liberal and Country parties’
conference. It was referring, of course,
to a conference of what is known in the
southern State (to the chagrin of the local
Country party) as “the Liberal and
Country party,” which is just another
name for the Liberals. On this false
premise the. “Herald” reproached the
N.S.W. Liberal party for failing to dis-
cuss issues publicly or to hold combined
conferences. The facts are that in
N.S.W. matters are discussed and
announced fully—and that relations be-
tween the two parties are far more cordial
in N.S.W. than in Victoria, where the
Country party has always been a thorn
in the Liberal side, and where, by use of
a narrow balance of power in the Legis-
lative Council, it continues to obstruct
the Bolte Government’s programme.
• •
Melbourne economist Dr. J. O. N.
Perkins has joined Dr. Coombs’s rather
lonely cry in the wilderness for an effort
by industrialists, traders, wage-earners
and consumers to halt inflation, with the
reminder that prices have risen by three
per cent, in Australia in each of the last
two years and by six per cent, the previ-
ous year.
Dr. Coombs didn’t mention the most
lavish spender of all, Canberra, but
international monetary authorities reckon
inflation is a Government weapon, and
a study of the P.M.G.’s estimates confirms
it.
• •
The Cahill Government is in diffi-
culty with its shopping laws, much of the
pressure for Friday-night opening com-
ing from its own members. Caucus now
has a committee examining the position,
and Cahill says that when its recommend-
ations are available, Cabinet would con-
sider whether alterations in the law are
necessary. Will it? Or will it leave the
consideration, as usual, to Alderman
Ernie O’Dea, who appears to make
Government policy in these matters?
• •
Soekarno has given Indonesia a cold
shock with his financial proposals—the
rupiah rate fixed at 45 to the dollar in-
stead of 11.4, but with higher-value
rupiah-notes devalued 90 per cent.; bank-
accounts above £ASSO frozen and to be
paid for with long-term bonds at a “fair
interest”; duties and taxes to be imposed
on both exports and imports ; no civil-
service salaries to be paid above £45 for
the month. The bank-freeze makes it im-
possible for most employers to pay wages
at all. On the whole it looks much like a
Communistic take-over of Indonesia’s
capitalistic system.
• •
The fact that the Sydney “Herald”
chides the U.K. Government for being
“reluctant to accept the necessity of
dealing with President Nasser” seems to
prove that there are no shareholders in
the Suez Canal Company on the board
of John Fairfax, Ltd. Nasser has never
kept an agreement unless it has
suited him, and he has now double-
crossed everybody he has dealt with in the
past three years except himself.
* *
A cool proposal has been put forward
by the N. S. Wales Teachers’ Federation,
which intends to go over the head of its
Minister, Mr. Heffron, and ask the
Federal Government to help pay for
State education. That is if there is still
a Mr. Heffr-on to go over the head of.
On last week’s performances he seems to
have abdicated to the N.S.W. Public
Service Board, which has been behaving
as if it had taken-over the Government
of N.S.W. The president of the Parents’
and Citizens’ Association complains that
in some directions the Minister can’t
move a finger without reference to the
board. Education is not the only depart-
ment in which that sort of thing happens.
• •
Kurt Geiger, who has had a remark-
ably successful postwar career in Mel-
bourne retailing, forecasts, after a three-
months world tour, that U.S. buyers
will return to the Australian wool-
market because it was now realised in
America synthetics won’t do the job
alone. He expects U.S. buying to be
substantial, and to remain substantial.
• •
A new bill in the Victorian Parliament
will increase the maximum penalty for a
person found drunk in charge of a car
from £25 to £5O, and for a second similar
offence from £5O to £250. It is only a
few years since the maximum penalty in
Victoria was £5, so there is a suggestion
of official panic in the new bill’s pro-
posals.
• •
At Geelong (Vic.) on Friday the
C.5.1.R.0. will give representatives of the
wool-trade its new washable-woollens
process which, the department suggests
after some years of experimenting, should
be used at first for blouses, slacks and
shirts.
The C.5.1.R.0. has been cagey in
recent weeks about the process, and the
disclosure of its new methods at Geelong
will be made to the trade only because it
does not want a half-cocked announce-
ment—the public claim, a rush by
buyers to get the wash-and-wear woollens
and the realisation they are not on sale.
The scientists expect the wool-trade to
get smartly on the job and have the
articles on sale this spring.
Drip-dry woollens, made by com-
mercially developed processes, will be
available soon.
• •
Melbourne Trades Hall disputes-
committee has decided to instruct Vic-
torian railwaymen in some sections to
work strictly to regulations in the hope
of “greatly upsetting train-running
schedules” throughout the State. The
Victorian A.R.U. wants a service-grant
of 10s. a week after a year’s service and
varying increases for additional years.
More than 20,000 railwaymen would
receive the extra pay, and the Trades
Hall is in high dudgeon that the Rail-
ways Commissioners have demurred.
“Working to regulations” is an old device
of Victorian railwaymen, but it used to
be known more honestly as a regulation-
strike.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: If, as reported, the
quarantine authorities are not prepared
to relinquish their large and seldom-used
station at North Head, Sydney, then it is
time the Federal Cabinet took a look at
the idea. The station is on one of the
most lovely parts of the Harbor, and the
land would be admirable for housing,
plus adequate areas for public recreation.
The sale of portion would yield enough
to build a truly modern station (in place
of the present collection of apparently
ramshackle buildings) at, say, Kurnell.
Few ships these days bring infectious
diseases to Sydney, and any that did
could well be diverted to Botany Bay.
The greatest danger is from overseas
planes, and for suspects from these
Kurnell would be merely a short launch-
journey. How long is it, incidentally,
since any large number of patients and
suspects was accommodated at the North
Head station —or, for that matter, at the
equally lovely area of Point Nepean, on
Port Phillip Heads?
• •
“The Times” has been carrying a
controversy on union-sponsored M.Ps.,
during which it is disclosed that the
U.K.’s Opposition candidates are chosen
from two lists —one of proposed nomi-
nees who have the financial backing and
sponsorship of particular unions, and the
other of candidates for whom finance will
have to be found by the party. It has
been revealed that 100 Labor Commons
members are the direct representatives
of particular unions. It would be interest-
ing to know the proportion in Australia.


Personal
ITEMS
Like Melbourne “Age’s” new editor,
E. K. Sinclair, who started in journal-
ism 27 years ago as a cadet on that paper
(B. 26 /8 / ’59), T. Austin, who now
becomes associate-editor, is a product of
Melbourne and Melbourne journalism.
An “Age” man for 18 years, since leav-
ing Scotch College, he also, like his present
editor, had his share of war both ways—
as an active-service participant and as a
war-correspondent. Sinclair (as already
noted here) was in the air as a Pathfinder
leader; Austin was a War II gunner
(later commissioned) in the Middle East.
• •
Queensland's Main Roads Department
gains a valuable man by the election of
C. N. Barton to the job of Commissioner
for Main Roads. He already has an
enviable record of achievement and
service. Deceptively quiet and unassum-
ing, he is a man of action who gets things
done with the minimum of fuss.
Graduating from the Queensland Uni-
versity as Bachelor of Engineering, he
spent six months with the Townsville
City Council as assistant-engineer before
joining the Main Roads Commission.
During the five years he was with the
commission he worked mainly on bridge-
design and supervision. In 1935 he left
Main Roads and, joining-up with James
Pollock, started in business as Pollock
and Barton, consulting-engineers, with
headquarters in Mackay.
He has had 33 years in the Army,
joining the Citizen Military Forces in
1925 and retiring from the reserve of
officers last year with the rank of colonel,
aged 51. During the last war he was 2i.c.
of the 2/15 Battalion, was captured in
Africa and spent nearly four years in
various p.-0.-w. camps in Europe. After
the war he commanded first the 31st and
then the 42rid Battalion, C.M.F., from
1948 to 1957. In Mackay he’s a member
and past-president of Legacy, Rotary
and the Institution of Engineers, and he
did a turn on Mackay City Council's
town-planning panel.
• •
The award of a Gledden Research
Fellowship to oil-company geologist
Philip R. Playford, of Perth, has been
followed by a Ful bright Scholarship.
This has taken him to America, where
he will spend about two years at Stanford
University, California, after which he will
apply the knowledge he has gained to
oil-exploration in Westralia.
• •
A solid job of work is ahead of
Russian-born American baritone Igor
Gorin, who has just started a 15-week
tour for the A.B.C. which will take him
over the six States and include 23 per-
formances with orchestras and 18 solo-
recitals. Moving to Vienna from his
native Ukraine at the age of six, he was
first a choir-boy; then, stranded in
music’s no-man’s-land with his voice-
break, he became a med.-student,' but
promptly abandoned that when his voice,
settled-down, interested the celebrated
teacher of the Vienna Conservatory of
IGOR GORIN
Music, Victor Fuchs. After five years
study there, plus another three of pro-
fessional apprenticeship at opera with
Czech companies, Gorin went on the
European opera-circut before moving to
the U.S., where he firmly established him-
self on both operatic-stage and concert-
platform before taking American citizen-
ship. Since then he has become a regular
guest-artist on a number of the biggest
musical radio-network shows; has
appeared in televised opera, and has
launched-out as a songsmith—his com-
positions run to a dozen. He divides what
spare time he can get between horses and
experimenting in the kitchen —he’s an
expert cook.
• •
Former flight-lieutenant with D.F.C.,
Michael Vaughan Mather, killed in a
road-smash in Victoria, used to fly the
Adelaide-Darwin passenger-route, and
when War II broke-out was piloting
flying-boats for Qantas. He was one
of the R.A.A.F. pilots who crossed the
Pacific to bring back Catalinas from
the U.S. In 1942, with another Aussie,
he took part in the evacuation of 97
stranded R.A.A.F. men from New
Britain under the very noses of the Japs.
• *
How many survivors are left of the
Mount Kembla (N.S.W.) colliery-blast of
July 31, 1902? One is Eric Hunt, of
Stockton (N.S.W.), who, as a clipper-
boy of 17, was underground on the day
of Australia’s greatest colliery disaster,
with a death-roll of 90. He and Adam
Frost, the contractor for haulage of
coal out of the mine, and Billy Parsons,
a wheeler, smelt gas and almost immedi-
ately heard a terrific explosion. With
dead men everywhere, Hunt led a num-
ber of survivors to safety through a
daylight heading, or air-course, that came
out near his home on the mountainside.
Only a few miners knew of this heading,
and, indeed, its use by the workers was
forbidden by the management.
• •
So rapid has been the recent growth
of the Australian Institute of Manage-
ment that A. Stanley Ridley has been
appointed director of development, a step
upstairs from the management post he
has held since the institute’s beginning
in 1941.
Before the war Stanley Ridley, who
was a Castlemaine (Vic.) lad, set-up as
a consulting-engineer. He enlisted in
1939 and was about to leave for over-
seas when he was seconded from the
Army to help in Sir John Storey’s efforts
to organise the institute, of which the
chief aim is to improve the standard of
management.
The institute, under Ridley’s smooth
direction, has now been established in
all States, but has grown most rapidly
in Melbourne, where there are 600
member-firms and 2000 individual
members.
Three years ago Ridley went to the
International Management Congress in
Paris and succeeded in persuading the
members to hold the next in Australia.
It will be in Sydney and Melbourne next
February.
• •
Vigorous North Irish 29-year-oldster
Rev. Noel McCrea, who now fills the
pulpit of the Mortlake (Vic.) Presbyterian
Church, is a former secretary of the
Northern Ireland Athletic League. His
own performances include winning the
all-Ireland youth cross-country-run
championship, over three miles in record
time, and the Irish Union championship
over six miles, also in record time.
• •
In the “Personal Items” par. on Alison
Bingle (B. 19/8/’59) reference was made
to an interesting historical letter written
by his pioneering ancestor Captain John
Bingle, who on May 15, 1878, set-down
in Newcastle his “birthday thoughts” at
the close of his 57 years in the then
colony of N.S.W. Here are a few
extracts:
On my landing in N.S.W. in 1821 it
was a colony of 33 years’ standing....
At that time Sydney was only a small
town, and I cannot remember more than
a dozen two-story houses in the place—
Government House was only a cottage.
There was an old tree left standing as
a monument in George Street opposite the
dockyard-wall when I arrived, and it
remained standing for many years after
Governor Phillip stood under it on January
26, 1788, and named the adjoining
water Sydney Cove During the year
1822, 81 vessels of all classes visited
Sydney, most of them small vessels. Now
in Newcastle alone we have in one month
an equal number of vessels arriving with
three times the tonnage of the 81 in
Sydney for a whole year... .There
was only one church —St. Phillip’s (St.
James’ was unfinished) —and throughout


the whole territory there were only six
churches; besides the one in Sydney, there
was one each at Parramatta, Windsor,
Campbelltown, Liverpool and Newcastle.
The total church-establishment only num-
bered nine clergymen, including Father
Therry, the only Romish priest in the
territory....
My friend Mr. Busby was the principal
means of introducing vines into the colony;
he visited Europe partly for that purpose,
collecting a great variety of cuttings from
France and the Rhine, and had them
planted in the Botanical Garden, from
whence, after a year or two, they were
distributed gratis to those who desired to
forward the project; the result is we are
now a wine-producing country, and the
wine made of first-rate quality has been
’ highly approved of at the National
Exhibitions. Our produce in the year
1875 was 831,749 gallons from 3162 acres.
The beauties of the Harbor of Port
Jackson I must leave to more able critics,
but this I know, it cannot, as the Yankees
say, be dittoed. All these improvements
in a new country are wonderful, every-
thing undergoing a thorough change, but
all my descriptions fall far short of the
originals, they must be seen to be appre-
ciated... .The situation and the selected
site of Sydney and its beautiful undulat-
ing suburbs are a credit to Governor
Phillip’s foresight, and to all time a
lasting monument to his memory, as they
are unchangeable.
Not much wonder that descendants
of one who could write thus of his
adopted country have furthered his
enthusiasm and been successful, like
Alison Bingle.
• •
Still going strong at 80 at Newcastle
(N.S.W.), Stan Carpenter, pioneer Rugby
Leaguer who, back before the 1914-18
stoush, played for N.S.W. and Australia.
He captained Newcastle’s first League
teams, which then played in the Sydney
competitions, and is the only life-member
of both the Newcastle and the N.S.W.
Leagues. They were built tough in the
old days. Stan Carpenter played com-
petition football up around Taree
(N.S.W.) till he was 43.
• •
“P.L.”: Killed in a goods-trains smash
in the Waikato (N.Z.) while working
at his ordinary job of enginedriver, the
noted Maori scholar Leslie G. Kelly was
53 at the finish. Many will miss this
reposeful, gentle Maori, particularly his
friends of the Polynesian Society, for
whom he wrote Tainui, a classic tracing
the history of the Tainui canoe. He also
wrote Marion Dufresne at the Bay of
Islands. He was the great-grandson of
Edward Meurant, the old-time Govern-
ment interpreter who married Kenehuru,
a chieftainess of the Ngati-Mahuta tribe.
• •
“8.H.”: Those coast-watchers of New
Guinea and the Solomons whose general
story was told by Walter Brooksbank
in B. 12 / 8 / ’59 were mostly civilians
recruited by the R.A.N. in an honorary
capacity before the outbreak of war.
They were not supposed to go on after
their areas had been taken by the enemy
—but that is just what they did, so
there were many delays after the Japa-
nese invasion before these men were
given any official rank. Jack Read, in
charge of Bougainville, declined the
rank of sergeant in the Angau section
of the A.I.F. and was later made lieu-
tenant, and Mason became a petty-
officer, R.A.N.V.R.
While the Japs occupied Bougainville
and entrenched themselves on Guadal-
canal, Read, Mason and co. got ready.
As the American forces assaulted Guadal-
canal and Tulagi, all Japanese air-squad-
rons making for the spot were reported
in time for them to receive a fierce
welcome. Admiral Halsey’s words give
the true measure of the coast-watchers’
success —“The coast-watchers on Bou-
gainville saved Guadalcanal, and Guadal-
canal saved the South-west Pacific.”
Men of Catalina squadrons of the
R.A.A.F., who dropped supplies, tele-
radio-sets, uniforms and other encourage-
ments to the watchers in the mountains,
regarded them with affection and admira-
tion. To them Paul Mason (here pic-
tured) was an unseen hero. He’s always
been shy and retiring, looking less like
a coast-watcher than a missionary,
planter or trader of Bougainville. Before
the war he was in charge of plantations
in the British Solomons. In spite of his
harmless appearance, he always got the
job done, with unobtrusive efficiency.
The story of the coast-watchers
written by Eric Feldt (who was in charge
COAST-WATCHER
of them from the beginning) has a lot
to say about Mason’s action. He won
the British and American D.S.C.s and
was later promoted to lieutenant,
R.A.N.V.R. He’s now manager of Inus
Plantation on the East Coast of Bou-
gainville. _____
• •
“Recorder”: Viv Chalwin, who must
surely be the world’s most travelled
sportsman, is on the move again—this
time accompanying Dave Power to Korea.
Power, the dual Empire Games six-mile
and marathon running champion, is to
compete, by invitation, in the Korean
Festival of Sport. This festival, part of
Korea’s post-war celebrations, has
become a great sporting carnival at which
champions from many nations are invited
to take part. Chalwin, who is making
the trip with Power out of sheer keenness,
has spent a fortune in recent years “push-
ing” sport. Associated with most of the
amateur movements in Australia, he’s
either president or vice-president of many
of them, spends freely helping them, and
is always ready to entertain visiting
athletes. In about the past 10 years he has
made no fewer than 16 trips abroad with
athletic teams, either as an official or
simply to look oh.
• •
Back from a business trip to Britain,
building - contractor Paul Nelson, of
Sydney, says that his success is due to
hard work, good luck —and the furnished
home that everyone wishes to buy. In
this enterprise he now plans to build
three-bedroomed weatherboard or brick-
veneered dwellings, fully furnished, at a
cost of about £3700 each, with a deposit
of £5OO if the occupier wishes to buy.
A former R.A.F. pilot who served
throughout the Battle of Britain, Nelson
came to Australia five years ago with
£6OO. He’s now head of 11 companies
engaged in home-building.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 51, Lionel McFadyen, chair-
man of Sydney Stock Exchange and president
of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges.
He became a member of Sydney ’Change in
1935 and its president in 1956 —at 48, the
youngest ever to hold this office. In War II
he was overseas with the R.A.A.F.
In Sydney, at 66, Arthur Sidney Hoskins,
co-founder of Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.,
and, after his retirement in 1950, interested
in developing land in the Ninety Mile Desert
in South Australia. All his life a keen member
of the Boy Scout movement, he founded the
Mount Keira Scout-camp.
In Sydney, Mrs. Gertrude Melville, member
of the N.S.W. Legislative Council since 1952,
president of the Labor Women’s Organising
Committee, vice-president of the Sydney Good
Neighbor Council and Mayoress of Cabravale
in 1945-48.
In Junee (N.S.W.), at 86, J. W. C. Beveridge,
owner of Billabong, one of the largest stations
in the south —it was founded by his father,
who came from Scotland to settle in the district
in 1840.
In Casterton (Vic.), Thomas J. Cawker;
like his father, he was a Cobb and Co. driver
and the first man to drive a motor-coach in
Victoria's Western District.
At 82, William Halley Supple, of Coldstream
(Vic.), foundation-member and former master
of the Yarra Glen and Lilydale Hunt Club,
of which he was hon. secretary for 52 years.
At Kew (Vic.), at 96, George Joseph Smith,
Kew’s oldest male resident and Victoria’s oldest
Boer War veteran.
In New York, at 86, Jean Hugart, Australian-
born doyen of. American magicians. He
originally hailed from Toowoomba (Q.), and
was author of several books on magic, as well
as editor of “Hugart’s Magic Monthly.”
In Sydney, six days before his 90th birthday,
Alexander McFarlane (“Sandy Mac”), formerly
a captain in the Clarence River (N.S.W.)
steamer-fleet. He dated his Bulletin reading
back to 1883, and contributed pars, as well.
Suddenly at sea, at 62, while on a Pacific
cruise, William Glyde Bateman, well-known
Fremantle (W,A.) businessman and former
athlete.
In Melbourne, at 68, Leonard T. B. Harding,
who, at the time with H.M.A.S. Melbourne,
sent the signal which led to finish for the
Emden. He had 41 years in the Navy.


ABORIGINALITIES
'T'he heifer looked dubiously at the two-
strand electric-fence. She had never
seen one like this before, and obviously
she smelt a rat. So, conforming to the
established pattern of habit for bovines,
she pressed her nose against it. Her
startled bellow, and her leap backwards
brought the other 20 cows to the scene
to inquire. One by one they cautiously
approached the fence, and one and all
made up their minds that never again
would they go near this devil’s invention.
Their unusual behavior attracted the
attention of the pig, who had the liberty
of the paddock. Dennis, typical of his
kind, considered that far too much fuss
was being made about strands of wire,
and boldly he pushed against it. His
squeals when the current hit could be
heard a mile away. But, unlike the cows,
Dennis wouldn’t give up without a
struggle, and without further protest.
He stared at the fence, and the longer he
stared at it the louder he squealed.
Then he set-off on a route-march,
parallel to the fence and distant about
a yard from it. From time to time he
turned his head to look at it, and every
time he did so he squealed again. But
his porcine mind had grasped one fact:
that the pain he had endured was con-
nected in some way with a ticking noise.
That noise—unknown, of course, to
Dennis —was generated by the unit in the
cowbails and was carried by the wire. If
the noise would stop, then the fence
would be harmless.
It did not stop, that day ; not in fact,
till noon the following day, by which
time the cocky had concluded that his
stock had learned their lesson and that the
current could be switched-off.
Exactly one hour later Dennis was on
the other side of the fence. Not that he
won in the long run, since forthwith he
was banished to his sty. But he had the
memory of a great victory in the face of
tremendous odds —the victory of a
thinking animal mind over a great inven-
tion of man.
■ f M. S.N.
* * * *
“Jeyles”: Caledonia-bound, an Austra-
lian export that evoked much interest
arrived at Tilbury on s.s. Ballarat.
Reported in the press as the world’s
largest plywood-sheets, |in. thick by
“ Aw, let's go to a fish-and-chip joint —y’ know what you're getting then!”
25ft. by 75ft., they were still the world’s
biggest when the latter dimension was
later corrected to 7.5 ft. Fabricated by
a Sydney plywood-maker in his
Australian-made steam platen-press of
record size, these six-ply sheets of
Borneo shorea are waterproof-glued with
phenolic-resin film, a high-temperature
and high-pressure bond that is stronger
than the wood itself. They should
endure pretty well and set a worthy
example in their planned utilisation —-
the roof-sheeting of a Leith building
108 ft. by 45ft., to house the manufactur-
ing of laminated Scottish timber.
*** 1 *
“Ymar”: At a Wimmera (Vic.) clear-
ing-sale top price in the livestock-section
was £34 —paid for a sheepdog!
* * * *
“Dial Sight”: Fresh' from Duntroon,
the reinforcement officer posted to my
Middle East battery was keen and
efficient, but he had a lot to learn about
men. He prepared a lecture on
astronomy with commendable thorough-
ness, but on the night in question there
was neither moon nor stars. Only a
heavy, overcast sky. For about half-an-
hour he talked of Antares, Orion’s Belt,
Betelgeuse and so on, until it dawned
on him that the troops were completely
bored. Very gallantly he concluded, “I
know, chaps, this lecture hasn't been
much good, because I haven’t been able
to point out the various stars to you.
But if any of you want to know anything
about any star at all, I’ll do my best to
answer any questions.” Out of the gloom
came a hoarse voice which I recognised
as belonging to Lofty, the driver of the
water-truck: “’Ow do'y’ reckon Auries
Star will go in the six-furlong race on
Saturday?”
* * * *
“Wayback Me”: Another farm-gate
warning-notice which did its duty nobly
for us was: “Beware of the Agapanthus.”
It raised quite a crop of scared looks.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Credit for the first aero-
plane flight in Australia is nearly always
given to Harry Houdini. The latest
example is the A.B.C. in its “We’re Ask-
ing You” session. But it’s not so. In
1909 F. H. Jones, an Adelaide business-
man, saw a demonstration - flight of a
Bleriot monoplane in France, and
brought the 37th machine built at
Bleriot’s workshop to Australia. In a
paddock at Bolivar, a few miles north
of Adelaide, the machine was assembled
FOX BARKING
Out of the mist and moonlight, quick,
complaining,
jets the staccato of the fox’s bark.
He is somewhere down by the river, low
to earth,
hunting and hunted, and in the day’s slow
birth
out of the mother-dark
l muse on whelps that once I saw, that
shrank
captive in their netted box, fetid, rank,
scared bright furtive eyes in their needle
faces
yearning for hidden once-familiar places.
Now I picture this red recluse, alone,
venting spite on escaping night and the
stillness around
with that spate of harsh repellent sound,
hating us, shut here within our own
geometrically fenced-in spaces.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


\ N \/ » ,
y KAOU) ©ILL. , A HURjRjCANB'LAMP S
A HGLP /N a CRISIS * y
all i can see no w is >//
THE rtORRjCANe


by two young motor-mechanics, C. W.
Wittber and Fred Custance. On the
morning of March 14, 1910, Wittber
took the controls and began, to taxi
around the paddock. A gust of wind
made the plane fly a short distance. It
was decided that the weather was too
unstable for a first flight. On Thursday,
March 17, at 5 a.m., Fred Custance
climbed into the cockpit, taxied around,
then gave the engine full throttle and
eased back on the stick. After a run
of 60vds. the monoplane “rose like a
bird,” as Custance described it, and made
many circuits of the paddock, landing
after being in the air for 5 min. 25 sec.
Custance took-off again, but this time the
machine tilted on its nose when he
brought it down, breaking the propeller.
“You have a bash at Governor-General and let me be
Prime Minister for a change."
Next day, at Digger’s Rest, Victoria,
Harry Houdini made several flights in
a Voisin biplane.
* ' * * *
“Uco”: In all the space devoted to
the attempt of Professor Hoyte to
emulate Hannibal by taking an elephant
across the Alps, no mention seems to
have been made of a previous attempt —
which also failed. I fancy the mahout
on that occasion was Richard Hali-
burton ; the time, about 1935. I recall
that Ted Scorfield had an amusing full-
page set of sketches on the subject in
The Bulletin. The final drawing de-
picted Haliburton and his elephant
rolliqg-down an Alp, snowball-fashion,
with Italian villagers fleeing in terror and
shouting, “The Abyssinians are coming! ”
'T'he pony was nervous and touchy when
A he suspected something was going to
be put across him, but lazy and quiet once
you got your seat. They called him
Politician. —“Alma.”
* * *
“J.W.”: “Duke’s Daughter” (B.
12/8/ ’59) brings memories of unfortun-
ates who governessed for our local big-
wigs. Ladies of little education, forced to
work because of family misfortune, they
kept one jump ahead of their pupils by
swotting-up at night. Beginning with
calisthenics on the lawn at 7.30 a.m.,
they struggled to teach the three R’s and
music and painting till 4 p.m. After that
they did the family-mending and helped
make the youngsters’ clothes. All this for
£2O p.a. But, unlike “Duke’s Daughter,”
they couldn’t down-tools—the supply of
governesses was greater than the demand.
* * * *
“Angus McScupper”: Wouldn’t
“Dorian’s” corgi (B. 5/ 8/’59) be baying
ra-ther than barking at the high-frequency
cat-yodellings? My pooches react
similarly to the bull’s voice, to the
Holden being warmed-up too fast, or
to spouse at piano perpetrating “Will Ye
No Come Back Again?”
* m m m
“Corio”: A new light has been thrown
on the value of prickly-acacia, which dots
the countryside south of the Divide in the
Cabbage State. Although it is a declared
noxious-weed in many districts, a survey
by the National Museum indicates that
the bush protects several species of birds
whose existence would be threatened if
the nesting-facilities it provides should
go. The birds include the yellow-tailed
thornbill, the zebra-finch, the super-blue-
wren and the red-browed finch. The
vermin and noxious weeds branch of the
Victorian Lands Department doesn’t take
kindly to the bush because it harbors
rabbits.
* * * ' s?
“Stromlo” : Who wouldn't have a dog’s
life —in the Galapagos?. In the 17th
century the Viceroy of Peru had dogs
placed on several of the Galapagos
islands to destroy the goats which were
a useful food-supply for the English
buccaneers. The dogs found the local
iguanas and tortoises easier to kill —and
so do their descendants. The goats —
and presumably the pooches—still
flourish, according to one of those
Unesco surveys lately published. But
where are the buccaneers?
* *- * *
“Tabba”: Possibly it was cheese, and
not butter, which accidentally resulted
from those Middle East donkey- and
camel-rides as described by “Miss M.”
(B. 1/6/’59). I have always understood
that the Arabs used the stomachs of
goats as waterbags. On occasions when
milk was placed in new bags before these
were used for water, cheese resulted be-
cause of the rennet still present in the
stomachs.
* * * *
“Blower”: That old bottle “B. A. Ker”
(B. 22/7/’59) found was a “Lamont,”
probably the first designed to hold
pressure, especially for soda-water.
Lamonts were in use in the 1890’s, and
as a bottle-blower I made the last few
gross in 1914, at Kilkenny (S.A.). The
manager at that time was W. J. (“Knock-
out”) Smith, still going strong. Early
in the century the Lamont was replaced
by the “Codd,” the bottle with the marble
inside. All these bottles have given way
to the crown-top. The only old-timer
still going, especially in South Australia,
is the screw-top bottle. Perhaps “B. A.
Ker” will come across the real old-timer
—the one with the rounded bottom,
which was used for sarsaparilla. Inciden-
tally, the piece of wood used in Lamonts
was generally ebony.
* * * «
“Lillydale”: Strictly speaking* “Brick
E’s” Celestial gardener (B. 5/8/’59) was
shouldering a pikulan, which is usually
translated into English as yoke-stick and
in Chinese literally means a rod to carry
one pikul (1331 b.). To yoke primarily
meant to couple, and, later, the item that
effected it. And because.oxen were the
prominent yoke-wearers, it became a
symbol of docile servitude, and ultimately
to mean anything resting on the
shoulders, be it light or heavy, or matri-
mony or foreign domination. So a yoke
is not exclusively that well-shaped piece
of beechwood which, suspending at each
end a bucket of milk, happily limited
the resistance of dairymaids when Sam
Pepys and his city-slicker pals waylaid
them with rambunctious bussings.


WONDER GREASE
i
NOW! One grease ... one gun
for all these farm jobs—
Farm Machinery
Complete protection for
shearing machinery,
pumps, windmills and
other stationary
equipment.
I
Farm Implements
Harvesters, combines, disc
ploughs—all mobile
equipment, including
wheeled tractors.
Cars, Trucks, Wheel Tractors
All chassis points, springs,
shackles, water-pumps,
universal joints, wheel bearings.
MEANS* ONE GREASE... ONE GUN
Why use specialised greases when one grease
will do all jobs . . . and do them better?
Ampol Lithium-base Multi-purpose Grease
is amazingly versatile ... it resists heat, cold,
water, rust and corrosion . . . affords com-
plete protection under all service conditions.
It stays in bearings longer; keeps out dirt
and grit; means substantial savings in time
and maintenance costs. From this moment
on . . . use only one gun, one grease . . .
Ampol Multi-purpose.
Except where equipment manufacturer specifies
a free flowing, semi-fluid grease or gear oil for
the lubrication of track rollers on crawler
tractors.
am
#
AUSTRALI
WNEO
illllllj
w».
: :
DMPOL
a
:
mmm.
""" s' >S' * * i
> . ?
c ' ' TtSf'f' '>ll
■ •:•'• -• •• -i, , -£s , ' : -. : • >:: ' - -■;
HOMOGENISED
(GREASE
MULTI-PURPOSE
RED .


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I <3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX.” Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L,. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Linwar, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
RELEASING PETRIFIED RESOURCES
T>Rodded into concern for the
immediate income of share-
holders by the takeover offer
of four H. C. Sleigh shares for
each £1 Adelaide Steam share,
the board of Adelaide Steam-
ship Co., Ltd., has announced
that the div. for the past year
will be raised from 7 p.c. to
10 p.c., that a one-for-two
bonus-issue will be made, that
the div. on the new capital
will be maintained at 10 p.c.,
and that the £1 shares are to be
split into ss. units before the
bonus-issue is made.
All these moves in the
Adelaide boardroom are cal-
culated to lift the price of the
shares to a point where the
H. C. Sleigh offer will appear
unattractive the Adelaide
board now having rejected two
takeover bids made by H. C.
Sleigh (the first was 3| H.C.S.
ss. shares for each £1 Adelaide
share).
Although the strength of
Adelaide’s investment-portfolio
has been a matter for optimistic
conjecture for many years, a
long run of 5 p.c. and 6 p.c.
dividends kept the market-
value of the scrip down, and
even on the 1957-58 div.-rate
of 7 p.c., paid out of profits
disclosed at slightly more than
the div.-charge, the share-
market at one stage this year
was prepared to pay only 255.
for the shares.
In its review of the co.’s
accounts in 1958 The Bulletin
commented that “Unfortun-
ately, Adelaide Steam, in
common with some other old-
established concerns, seems
addicted to the ‘here’s-the-div.-
now - guess - the - profit’ game
which hinders any estimation
of the potential value of earn-
ing-power of the scrip and, as
has been the case for most of
the co.’s 83 years, earnings
claimed last term exceeded the
div. by no more than a few
pounds.”
The Adelaide investment-
portfolio includes scrip in
J. and A. Brown Abermain
Seaham Collieries, A.W.A.,
North Australian Cement,
other well-to-do cos. and
several subsidiaries.
In the 1957-58 term sales of
vessels and the co.’s substantial
shareholding in Australian
National Airways brought-in
large lumps of capital-profit,
indicating that the book-value
of net tangible assets at 40s. 6d.
a share (including reserves for
"Oh, hello , Simpson! Remember those shares
you recommended?”
insurance and renewals) was
probably a notable understate-
ment.
Though the present can
hardly be regarded as the most
auspicious time for shipping
operations—any benefits from
the new Bulkships venture is
still in the future —the Adelaide
board has suddenly been
stimulated into more than
doubling its effective rate of
distribution in the space of a
few months ; and shareholders'
will be on the warpath at the
annual meeting to find out not
so much the reason why, but
the reason for its not having
been done earlier.
The board has referred to
benefits which “are only now
beginning to flow from sub-
sidiary and ancillary long-term
enterprises,” and that “these
benefits are expected to im-
prove still further when more
recent acquisitions are fully de-
veloped.” On the face of things,
Moses appears to have struck
the rock of seemingly petrified
assets at a most propitious
time, and the flow seems to
have been most responsive to
the blow.
Two days after Adelaide
Steam’s announcement of its
bonus-issue and future dividend
policy, J. and A. Brown Aber-
main Seaham Collieries broke
the news that it was going to
lift its div.-rate from 8 p.c.
to 10 p.c., and to publish con-
solidated accounts in future.
Previously it had shown its
profits after tax-deduction. The
raising of the div.-rate, follow-
ing a one-for-four bonus-issue
last October, will help Adelaide
Steam meet its own increased
div.-commitments. But under
the Coal Board regulations
collieries are not permitted to
raise their dividends beyond
10 p.c. without special permis-
sion.
Adelaide Steam has not gone
so far itself as to say that it
will publish consolidated
accounts hereafter, or that it
will disclose its annual taxation
and other provisions. But it
might well consider doing both.
Admittedly shipping is a very
political subject, but it would
appear that the co.’s maritime
interests are of less conse-
quence than they used to be,
and a disclosure of figures to
which shareholders in other
companies are ordinarily
entitled would seem to be no
longer worth while keeping in
the dark for political reasons.
Following several suspen-
sions of operations on different
capital-city Stock Exchanges
and their ultimate reinstatement
on all, Adelaide Steam shares
have shot-up to 705., compared
with a lowest price of 21s. in
1958 and a lowest of 255. in
1959. The Sleigh offer of four
of its ss. ords. is equal to 81s.
with its scrip at 20s. 3d.
Chevron Sydney, Lid.
T>uilding an international
** hotel, tourist-centre and
airways-terminal on a 2|-acre
site in Macleay Street, Potts
Point, Chevron Sydney, Ltd.,
is offering six-million ss. ords.
and £2 million of 8| p.c. first-
mortgage debentures.
Head and front of the show
is Stanley Korman, of Stanhill
Consolidated, Ltd., which
controls the Chevron and
Scott’s hotels, Melbourne, and
is a large shareholder in
Chevron Queensland, Ltd.,
owner of the Chevron and
Surfers Paradise hotels, Queens-
land Gold Coast.
Stanhill will take-up
2,950,000 (about 49 p.c.) of the
ss. shares being issued by the
Sydney float, and the public
will be offered the remaining
3,050,000 shares.
Both the shares and de-
bentures have been under-
written.
The Potts Point hotel is
being built in stages. The first
section, with accommodation
for 400 guests, is planned to be
ready for occupation by May,
1960. The second stage,
making accommodation for
900 altogether, is expected to
be completed by the end of
1961. Present issues are ex-
pected to be enough to finance
these two stages. But final
plans are for 1000 bedrooms.
Stanhill will advance up to
£2 million at 9 p.c. or less
during the next five years, if
required to.
The hotel will be com-
pletely air-conditioned, each
bedroom will have its own
bathroom, and there will be a
restaurant, public and saloon
bars, cocktail-bars, open-air


Sending money anywhere in Australia or
overseas is simple, safe, and inexpensive
when you do it through the “Wales”.
You can get a bank draft to send yourself,
or they will send the money for you by
surface mail, air mail, telegram, or cable.
This service is available at any branch of
the “Wales” whether you have an account
or not. „„„
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Over 1,000 branches and agencies throughout
Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New
Guinea, and three branches in London
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A5913C
cafes, convention-rooms and
lounges. From 500 to 800 cars
will be parked indoors.
Based on an annual rate of
80 p.c. occupancy, Stanley
Korman estimates net profit,
after debenture-interest and
tax, at not less than £318,000,
equal to 21 p.c. on a capital of
£1,500,000.
The Chevron at Potts Point
(right by King’s Cross) should
be an attractive and much-
needed hotel, especially as it
will have links with other Stan-
hill hotels in Victoria and
Queensland. It is an ideal posi-
tion for the visitor and the
tourist, even if slightly “off-
centre” for the very busy busi-
nessman.
Share Prices—and Wool
HPhe new season’s wool sales
opened on a confident
note —about 15 p.c. up on the
closing rates for the previous
season. This appears to be in
line with Treasurer Holt’s basic
estimates in his Budget.
Australian sharemarkets did
not show any general response
to the better wool prices,
though over the past few weeks
there has been a strengthening
in pastoral scrip. Except for
the spurt in Winchcombe,
Carson following the
announcement of its one-for-
four bonus-issue and hopes of
maintaining a 10 p.c. dividend,
the rise in wool prices, even
among pastoral stocks,
appeared to have been antici-
pated well ahead of the open-
ing of the new season’s sales.
As for the rest of the market
in general, it was logical
enough that higher wool prices
should have had little or no
effect. The inflation that has
occurred in prices this year
has been the result of looking
so far into the (seemingly
rosy) future that intermediate
benefits appear to have been
fully discounted.
Rising wool prices, too,
were not accompanied by a
general upward trend in the
profits of companies currently
being announced. Both Brad-
ford Cotton and Davies Coop
have shown reduced profits,
and so have Goninan’s (the
Newcastle engineers) and some
of the hire-purchase concerns
and TV-manufacturers. For
others it has been a good year ;
but the overall picture is
patchy, as was indicated in
advance by the national pro-
duction figures and the Depart-
ment of Trade’s survey of the
manufacturing industries.
There is no denying that the
basic motive behind much buy-
ing of ordinary shares over
the past year has been the
result of speculation on the
score of what someone else
would later-on be prepared to
pay for a stock —that is, pay
on a takeover basis, or what
some overseas investor would
pay in view of his particular
advantages under recriprocal
taxation arrangements. Thus
Australian buyers of shares
have been tending to bet all
the time on someone fairly
soon paying a higher price for
a stock that may already be
showing an unremunerative
return on current div.-rates.
The takeover fever isn’t
finished yet, and attempts to
shake-off takeovers will still
result in bonus-issues being
made by concerns that have
been tucking - away profits
more-or-less unbeknown to
shareholders for many years ;
but in the end the takeover
companies have to earn pro-
fits on the assets acquired in
order to justify the price paid,
and any difficulty in earning a
high ratio may be reflected in
a market drop in price of the
scrip issued as takeover con-
sideration.
Present share prices in many
cases already discount the
prospects of takeover offers,
not to mention prospects of
immediate earning-power.
Ampol’s New Issues
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd., is
raising over £5,000,000 by
a further issue of registered
unsecured convertible notes
and a private placement of
shares.
Stock-holders and holders of
existing convertible notes
registered on January 15, 1960,
will be entitled to participate
in the new issue of notes in the
proportion of one note for
each three stock-units and/or
notes now held.
The funds raised will be used
to finance service-stations now
under construction (and which
will be completed and income-
earning prior to the closing-
date of the note-issue), as well
as for the expansion of the
co.’s activities generally, and
for the purpose of increasing
working-capital.
The notes, of ss. each, will
be issued at par, carrying 6 p.c.
p.a., and will be converted on
April 1, 1967, into ss. ord.
stock-units at par. Payment
may be made in full on applica-
tion or 2s. 6d. on application
on March 1, 1960, and 2s. 6d.
on June 1, 1960. The notes will
carry equal rights with stock-
units in any further cash-issues
of ord. capital or convertible
notes. Should the co. decide at
any time to make a bonus-
issue, holders of the notes will
be entitled to convert and
participate.
Holders of options to take-
up ord. shares between
December 1, 1959, and Decern-
ber 1, 1961, on payment of 15s.
in respect of each ord. taken-
up, will participate in this issue,
provided they exercise their
option between December 1,
1959, and December 31, 1959.
The issue is underwritten
f ree by J. B. Were and Son,
who have guaranteed a place-
rnent prior to September 30,
1959, 0 f 1,000,000 ss. ords. for
cas h “ at a substantial pre-
mium.” These shares will
rank equally with the co.’s
existing fully-paid stock-units,
including full participation in
the final div. in respect of the
present financial year normally
payable in January, as well as


Your money will EARN
For 3 years and over invested in the , . .
NEW £lOO,OOO ISSUE IN
FIXED DEPOSIT NOTES
With Absolute Safety
Your money is absolutely and securely invested.
There is £165 security to every £lOO of depositors'
money invested. Deposit monies rank ahead of share
capital for repayments.
With Maximum Return
10% per annum for 3 years and over.
9% per annum for 2 years and over.
8% per annum for 1 year and over.
With Availability
Your money is available on request in an emergency.
WRITE TODAY FOR fl PROSPECTUS TQ;
CONSOLIDATED INVESTMENT
CO. LTD.
2nd floor, 13-15 O’Connell St., Sydney. BW 2661
(10 lines)
YOUR NAME
ADDRESS.
M49A/3
6/Z 3
rights to the convertible-note
issue just announced.
Total of ss. ord. shares
issued by Ampol at present is
41,846,581. The three previous
cash-issues were to existing
shareholders, and at par.
J. and A. Brown
T ifting of the div. to 10 p.c.
p.a. by J. and A. Brown
Abermain Seaham Collieries
puts it on the limit permitted
by the Joint Coal Board unless
special approval is obtained.
Profits (before tax) are restricted
to 6s. per ton of coal, except
in special cases.
Over the seven years to
June 30, 1958, the co. appro-
priated £2,765,000 out of
profits towards tax-free capital-
expenditure (under Division 10
of the Income Tax Assessment
Act) and paid an 8 p.c. div.
out of profits disclosed at a
level which barely covered the
distribution. In October last
year a one-for-four bonus-
issue was made from assets-
revaluation reserve and the
interim div. maintained at 8
p.c. p.a. The rate now rises
to 10 p.c. p.a.
In years when the dividend
has called for £152,000 p.a.
the annual tax-free write-off
has averaged around £400,000
a year, and for 1957-58 was
£540,000.
A great deal of mechanisation
has been going on as a result
of the tax-free appropriations,
and the profit-earning potential
of the co. should now be very
much in excess of the 10 p.c.
div.-commitment on the bonus-
increased capital (now calliug
for £237,500 a year).
Consolidated accounts should
disclose the nature of the
assets in subsidiary cos. which
appeared as an investment item
of £1,155,576 at June 30, 1958.
This figure included the Hex-
ham Engineering Pty., Ltd. and
Wallarah Coal Co. Pty., Ltd.
How, ultimately, shareholders
are to benefit from the in-
creased earning-potential of the
co. when capital-expenditure
eases-off isn’t clear. Another
bonus-issue will be necessary
unless the Joint Coal Board
approves a div. higher than
10 p.c.
Ice-cream Party-time
T)arty-time has come to the
shareholders of Pauls,
Ltd., and Peters Arctic, Ltd.,
Queensland’s two rival ice-
cream manufacturers.
Shareholders of Pauls, Ltd.,
received their present in the
form of a share-split. The
market recognised a bargain
and moved up to 50s. This has
followed a one-for-three par
issue.
Peters, not to be outdone,
announced the splitting of
their £1 ordinary shares,
together with a one-for-three
bonus. The market for Peter’s
shares has now risen to 555.
More Margarine
/Queensland's largest mar-
garine-producer, Provin-
cial Traders Holding, Ltd., is
increasing its 'sales of Kira-
belle margarine, and participat-
ing with southern producers in
the expanding market for
domestic and industrial mar-
garine.
To provide for further expan-
sion, Provincial Traders will
make a 10-for-23 par issue to
ordinary shareholders and
noteholders and a further issue
of 500,000 £1 convertible notes.
At the current price of 385.,
the rights to the ord. shares
carry a value of 10s. 6d., to
yield 4} p.c. on the comfort-
ably held dividend of 9 p.c.
Innamincka Strata
[From 1.. Owen]
A report from Santos which
reached Sydney on June
16 stated that the Innamincka
well was drilling ahead in “red
sandy hard shale” at 7435 ft. on
June 12. The significance of
this occurrence of red shale
has been pointed out (B.
8/7/’59). On August 19 it was
said that the well had reached
9090 ft. on August 15, and that
a core taken from 8879-8899 ft.
(presumably on August 11 or
thereabout) had recovered 16ft.
of red shale with streaks of
sand. The latest report is that
coring recovered 17ft. of red-
brown silty shale with slightly
glauconitic sand - stringers
immediately above 9414 ft. and
was drilling ahead on August
21.
The incoming of glauconite
suggests a change to slightly
less arid and aerobic condi-
tions, but, in the absence of
reports of other lithological
mutation, it must be assumed
that red shale has persisted for
at least 2000 ft.
Great thicknesses of shale,
without substantial change in
character, have been proved at
several points throughout Aus-
tralia in wells drilled on post-
Triassic closed structures —
examples of this at Rough
Range and Cape Range will be
recalled and Innamincka
appears to be following the
same pattern.
There is no logical geological
explanation for this phe-
nomenon, but the conditions
under which such persistent
and unchanging beds are
deposited does not seem to
have been appreciated in the
location of wells drilled in the
hope of striking commercial oil
on the Australian mainland.
C.A.G.A.
Thirst consolidated net profit
of Commercial and
General Acceptance Corp.,
Ltd. (the Commercial of Syd-
ney’s h.-p. associate), and
subsidiaries for the initial
trading period to June 30,
1959, after writing-off the
cost of establishing branches in
Sydney, Melbourne and Bris-
bane, the integration costs of
the subsidiaries with C.A.G.A.,
and heavy debenture and
deposit expenses, was £161,698,
after providing £100,952 for
taxation and £9428 for depre-
ciation.
At June 30, group out-
standings totalled £15,135,386.
The percentage of the deferred
income to retail outstandings
was 12.64.
The profit was almost
entirely derived from the sub-
sidiaries. A major portion of
the charges written by the
parent in its first period of
operations was deferred into
future years. Further, the
actual gross income brought
into account during the period
was substantially absorbed by
the special expenditure referred
to. The benefits of this ex-
penditure will accrue during
the 1959-60 year.
Borrowed funds at June 30
amounted to £10,160,924.
A first dividend of 6 p.c.,
requiring £79,500, was paid on
July 31.


•• . •
■ .
m
mm
m
u
m
I "'' !# j' f
wsmm
■■■
m
mrnm
mm
m
mm
mmm
'■f mi
m
m
NOW! REGULAR JET SERVICES ROUND THE WORL
Now BOAC—and only BOAC—offers superb jet comfort right
round the world.
Rolls Royce powered Comet 4s speed you between the Far East
and Europe. Jet-prop Britannias span the Pacific with the fastest
through service between the Far East and Honolulu, San Francisco,
and through New York on to Europe. Additional Comet 4s and
jet-prop Britannias provide the finest choice of daily services
between U.S.A. or Canada and Europe.
Comet 4 Jetliners now regularly serve Tokyo, Hong Kong, Singa-
pore, Bangkok, Rangoon, Colombo, Bombay, Calcutta, New
Delhi, Karachi, Bahrein, Teheran, Beirut, Rome, Zurich, Frank-
furt, London, New York and Montreal.
Soon they will operate to Australia— taking over from the magnifi-
cent jet-prop Britannias, which also provide fast, frequent, daily
services from South, East, Central and West Africa to Europe.
BOAC’s great global network of Jetliner services is not matched
by any other airline. And with the extra speed and comfort of
jet-smooth BOAC airliners you enjoy BOAC’s unsurpassed per-
sonal service.
For full details of Luxury or Low-Fare services throughout the
world, see your Travel Agent or Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.,
(BOAC General Agents for Australia ).
FLY BOAC
THE MOST EXPERIENCED JET AIRLINE
IN THE WORLD
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL, S.A.A. AND C.A.A
AI7/AU


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Doll” Again
They are doing “Summer
of the 17th Doll” at
Sydney Elizabethan in a new
production with an almost
entirely new cast. Action on
stage is more tidy, more quick,
more contrived than it has ever
seemed before, and producer
John Sumner has emphasised
the same story-line as in his
original production.
He has tried to turn Lawler’s
story of two canecutting mates
who find (due to age and ex-
perience) that they need one
another if life is to be bear-
able, into a story about dis-
illusioned love and the shatter-
ing of a barmaid’s dream. As
a result the third act
becomes irrelevant, the last
scene (the two men fac-
ing the “whole bloody
country out there”) embarrass-
ing, and the whole play tire-
some, since the barmaid is
merely pathetic. In this pro-
duction two acts establish her
doll as symbolic of all she has
ever desired; a few seconds
break it. When the curtain
rises on the third, and we see
the room tidy, the pieces put
away, the barmaid’s play is
over.
It is only in the relationship
between the two mates
straight from Lawson —that
Lawler has any real movement
forward within character and
any real element of suspense.
In the printed text the men
explore this relationship in-
articulately and painfully
through mutual lying, mutual
indignation, mutual jealousy
and mutual despair until the
last scene of the play—its true
climax when the doll is
finally destroyed and the two
men recognise their mutual
need. They reject and are
rejected by the world around
them; they will eventually
settle-down to telling each
other lies about it for ever.
None of this came out of the
present production, and it
offers very little else. The
actors are playing for laugh-
traps, clap-traps, tear-traps.
Consequently the laughter and
the applause are never more
than indulgent, and the play
hurts no one in the audience
at all. The original cast made
the characters true ; here they
are quaint, “working-class,”
theatrical.
Ethel Gabriel, however, who
has played the mother who
sees through them all on three
continents, is acting more truth-
fully than ever. She is now
concerned with character
rather than with lines ; she is
thoroughly delightful.
“ Stage-money !”
The two barmaids in the
cast had flashes of talent.
Possibly they were restricted to
flashes by a production which
allowed the “glamorous nights”
scene to take place in almost
total darkness.
Ray Mathew.
❖ ♦>
“Starlight Roof”
At Sydney Tivoli, Quaino is
hauled up to a platform near
the flies, balancing with one
hand on a chromium rod.
There he sets three copper-
rings one on top of the other
on top of an inverted glass
light-globe, grasps the top ring
with one hand and balances
upside-down on that. When
he comes down he’s breathing
a bit, and you notice under
his silk shirt that he’s got a
chest about 6ft. deep —and so
would the reviewer if he could
do such things.
Leo Bassi and June are dis-
covered lying on their backs
on chromium supports, whirl-
ing things around with their
feet; the gent can play with
two cylinders, about 3ft. long
and 6in. in diameter, whirling
them around, sidewise or end-
wise, changing them simul-
taneously from one foot to the
other. One didn’t notice so
much what the girl was juggling
because of the lovely play of
those beautiful leg-muscles,
but in the end, while he was
juggling a miniature piano, she
was doing likewise with a full-
size dummy of a man.
Danny Dean slunk-on like
the big bad wolf in the comics
to compere the show ; he has
two brilliant acts miming
gramophone - records: “Mule
Train” and Figaro’s “Largo al
Factotum.” In “Mule Train,”
every time the whip cracks he
moves a bit of red plastic the
size • of a toothbrush up and
down; never has so big an
audience laughed so much for
so little.
Jimmy Wheeler, as the
delight and terror of the
London bar (i.e., bar-room),
had opinions on everything,
and that added pleasure of
style which in English
comedians derives from their
being so perfectly in character.
Gerry tap-danced, the
Panlaqui Brothers played a
xylophone, Johnny Marco
sang “Jezebel,” and Lloyd
Lindroth jazzed-up a harp and
played a small Irish-harp very
dexterously.
But with all this talent the
show didn’t excite the enthu-
siasm of the Sabrina or
Mahoney shows —the orchestra
on stage was no compensation
for a dead pit, and although
the girls worked as hard as
ever, brightness seemed to
have fallen from the air. And
they wheeled the nudes around
in go-carts!
Peerce in Brisbane
“What, No Boheme?” was
the first question that came to
mind after, hearing Jan Peerce's
only recital for the Firm in
Brisbane. A sudden illness
caused the tenor to telescope
two programmes into one, and
the result ranged from
Mozart through Verdi to Leon-
cavallo, as well as French
songs and many of the ballads
Peerce has made famous and
been made famous by.
Opera in recital is always at
a disadvantage. It is con-
ceived in the composer’s mind
to be presented in a certain
setting and in relation to other
arias and choruses. Peerce,
who must know every creak-
ing board of the New York
Metropolitan, was able to
compensate for the missing
dimensions by his sheer power
of vocal acting. His voice is
not always beautiful, but those
coarser elements in it he
adapts to dramatic purpose —
and yet no sooner had this
judgment been formed than
one’s ears were delighted with
a serene and noble phrase in
the best Italian tradition.
Peerce belongs to the great
company of Tauber, Melba
and McCormack in his ability
to attain greatness in both
opera and “muck,” and, opera-
tomane though the present
writer is, he must admit that
the loveliest singing, as sheer
sound, in the whole generous
Peerce giving was in the odd
phrase in his “Because” or
“Bluebird of Happiness.”
Val Vallis.
♦> ❖ ❖
“My Three Angels”
This, at Canberra Reper-
tory, has all the usual qualities
of an Eric Reiman production
—attention to detail in cos-
tume and decor, composition,
movement, timing and drilling
—so that the maximum effect
is drawn out of every situa-
tion. Unfortunately Sam and
Bella Spewak’s play lets
Reiman down.
If you use three convicts
to pass judgment on society
you must make sure that you
have something perceptive to
say about who gets what and
with what in that society. In
America it’s no longer fashion-
able to discuss fundamental
issues on stage and screen;
so here the convicts are reduced


YOU WILL BE WELCOME
at the
BOWEN CENTENARY CELEBRATIONS
October 16, 1959, to April 12, 1961
CONTINUOUS PROGRAMME OF EVENTS
Write
Dr. P. R. Delamothe, 0.8. E., Bowen, N.Q.,
for details.
to putting on a sort of deaf-
and-dumb show about society,
which is about as exciting as
an attempt by Sunday-school
teachers to do something
daring.
The men who played the
three convicts —Patrick Camp-
bell, Ken Farnham and Gott-
hard Wehrmann —looked as
though their talents were
worthy of a more serious
vehicle. So did Dorothy Camp-
bell and Ann Cusack as two
women on the outside, and
Peter Steer as the money-
pursuer.
With the increase in popula-
tion here the Repertory needs
to think less and less of box-
office. It seems a pity that
Eric Reiman doesn’t use his
very considerable gifts to put
on a serious play rather than
toss us such a sprat.
M. C.
's>
Paul and Beryl Kimber
Three of the four works
offered by Tibor Paul and the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra at
the Town Hall on Saturday
night were 20th-century com-
positions.
The Glazounov Violin Con-
certo, though not reaching the
heights of the three “greats,”
is a soundly constructed piece
of much melodic charm, for
the most part spirited and joy-
ful, with a romantic middle
section to give emotion full
play. Soloist was Tasmanian-
born Beryl Kimber, lately re-
turned from advanced study
with Oistrakh in Moscow.
Always a violinist of interpre-
tative maturity beyond her
years, she has developed into
a serene player of polish and
assurance. She brought to the
end-sections a youthful vitality
and intensity, driving along at
headlong pace yet with shining
clarity. The cadenza bridging
the final movements was swept
through effortlessly, and the
subsequent dialogue between
violin and trumpets was neatly
balanced.
In Respighi’s “Roman Festi-
vals,” an exciting evocation of
circuses and religiosity in
Nero’s Rome, the brasses en-
joyed themselves hugely in
helping the lower strings to imi-
tate—quite realistically, too —
the roaring of beasts. Barrel-
organs grinding, bells ringing,
martyrs chanting, even the
shouts of the drunks —all were
there, and to the life, their
varied voices directed with cool
authority.
The third modern work was
the Third Symphony of Bar-
raud—a first performance in
Australia. Apparently owning
an ambition to make this
the greatest welkin-buster
in symphonic literature,
Barraud, after a couple of
moderate bars, blows it up to
double-fortissimo and keeps it
there, irrespective—and what
all the noise is about is any-
body’s guess.
Lastly, Geminiani’s Concerto
Grosso in G Minor. The in-
fluence of the composer’s
teacher,' Corelli, both in the
piece’s structure and contra-
puntal lay-out, is unmistak-
able. Graceful, delicate and in-
gratiating, with slow and fast
tempi alternating in its four
movements, it was played ur-
banely, with conductor and
strings in easy accord.
❖ <*
“A Dead Secret”
A famous arsenic-poisoning
case was used by Rodney Ack-
land for his play “A Dead
Secret,” now being produced
by Evelyn Wood for the Syd-
ney Genesians in such a
realistic way as to suggest the
very odors of the cramped and
dingy rooming-house of 1911
London where the murder took
place.
One of the best performances
was given by Kathleen Scott,
as the maudlin and flabby old
woman murdered for the con-
tents of her battered cashbox.
The landlord and murderer,
played by John Pooley,
emerged less vividly as a harsh-
voiced and bleak character,
given to quoting Scripture and
squeezing a few shillings com-
mission even from the under-
takers who buried his victim.
Kathleen Gaffney, as the
landlord’s wife, drew a good
likeness of a browbeaten
woman vainly trying to rise
above natural timidity and
defend her lodgers and
domestics from her husband’s
harshness, yet constantly on
edge through her loyalty to
him. As the daft maid,
Suzanne Swinson was uncom-
fortably realistic, with her
arms and legs - flying and a
great deal of shrill laughter.
D.
Artbursts
Watercolors
Attractively hung in “panels,”
the annual exhibition of the
Australian Watercolor Institute
at David Jones’, Sydney,
makes a clear and concise if
not a very strong statement.
It could probably do with
new exhibitors; but the diffi-
culty in that is that most of
the fresh energy in Australian
painting at the moment is going
into various forms of abstrac-
tion, and whatever they may
be able to do in oils, abstrac-
tions are rarely successful in
watercolor. The few abstract-
painters who are represented
here, trying to get the weight
of oils, mostly push their
washes around until they are
mud.
Watercolor is an art of deli-
cacy, clarity and light; and at
least it would help this show
considerably if such excellent
painters as Yvonne du Moulin
and Kenneth Jack would let
a bit of light into their har-
monious but uninspiring
monotones.
With Norman Lindsay and
John Eldershaw absent, G. K.
Townshend easily retains his
pre-eminence in the medium;
and, if you did not know his
dexterity—and his capacity for
continually finding fresh
strength within a familiar
range—it would be hard to
believe that a painting simply
entitled “Boatshed” could be
so fine and dramatic a piece
of work.
Other attractive groups of
paintings are those by Robert
Campbell, Margaret Coen,
Claudia Forbes - Woodgate,
J. W. Maund and Max Rag-
less, and there are good
individual watercolors by
Eileen Berndt, Elsie Danger-
field, Edward Hall (“Land-
scape, Malabar”), Ivor Hunt,
J. N. Kilgour and May Mars-
den. George Duncan and
Kenneth Macqueen submit
some interesting experiments
in style and rhythm; and
Keith M. Harrison has some
admirable portraits of historic
buildings.
❖ *> ❖
Gleghorn’s Abstracts
Thomas Gleghorn is at
present filling Sydney’s Mac-
quarie Galleries with wounded
crows, robber-gulls, coast-
winds and corroborees (or .their
abstract equivalents); and
within the limits imposed by
his medium —black ink spat-
tered onto white frames, occa-
sionally lightened by an
amalgamation of dark ochre
or by pale blues and yellows
—he achieves in general pleas-
antly severe clarity of line and
a clean fineness which make
his abstracts by comparison
with the younger school all
the more subtle and un-
assertive.
Hiding among the host of
large paintings are several
quite exquisite small ones:
“Corroboree,” delicate in its
hard blackness, with a fore-
ground washed-ochre group of
aborigines carrying spears;
“Legend,” appropriately rather
mysterious ; and “Landscape,”
striking in its liberal light-
effect and in the broken patches
of chocolate-black.
Gleghorn’s fluent line-
technique shows to best advan-
tage in the larger frames: in
“Wounded Crow” the feeling
of the bird is powerfully con-
veyed by a swirling rush of
black and by spidery shapes
vaguely suggesting claws.
“Death of a Bird,” the final
variation on this theme, is
liberally blocked-in with black-
ened green, and if you look
hard enough you can see a
beak, an eye and a claw.
In his landscape studies he
sometimes, as in “Study for
‘Black Landscape’ Nullarbor
II,” puts straight lines against
curving hill-shapes; in “Nul-
larbor I” he softens the frigid
monotony of a black-boulder
sun by introducing sparse
blue, yellow and ochre tones.
And “Robber Gull Caught in
a Net” shows that color-restric-
tion need not deter explosive
movement.
♦>
Scholarships to Italy
A travelling - scholarship to
Italy for Australian artists,
sponsored by the Italian
Government, is announced by
the N. S. Wales Art Gallery.
The scholarship is for ten
months, at the rate of £43 a


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2 fr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
month, plus free return-fares.
Competitors must be Aus-
tralian-born and have lived in
Australia for three years pre-
ceding the award.
The winner is to arrive in
Italy before the end of this
year, and the scholarship will
be awarded on a competition
for which artists are invited to
submit paintings; The judge
will be Russell Drysdale.
“There is no restriction on age,
but younger competitors will
receive preference.” Selected
entries will be exhibited at the
Gallery from October 16 to
November 8. Entry-forms are
available at the Gallery.
A similar scholarship for
sculpture is also being offered
by the Italian Government and
details of this may be obtained
from the National Gallery of
Victoria.
*t* &
Medal for Sculptors
The Royal Society of British
Sculptors has announced that
from the fund provided by Sir
Otto Beit for an annual “best
work of the year” medal for
works exhibited in London, the
award of a second medal has
been authorised for works ex-
hibited elsewhere in the British
Isles and the Commonwealth.
Only sculptors who are British
subjects are eligible. Details
from the secretary, Royal
Society of British Sculptors, 6
Queen Square, London, W.C.I.
Closing-date for photographs
of exhibits is October 25.
♦i* ♦t* *z+
Mosman Prize
Entries for the 1959 Mosman
(N. S. Wales) Art Prize close
on September 7. Prizes are
£lOO for an oil, £4O for a
watercolor and £25 for a
drawing. The judge will be
Allan Gamble, director of the
Gallery of Fine Atts at Syd-
ney University.
Films
“And Quiet Flows the Don”
This Russian film covers
only the first section of
Sholokov’s monumental novel,
with apparently two more to
come to complete the work.
In it life and love flow turbu-
lently along the banks of the
broad, placid river which is its
chief setting ; and its passions
let loose by marital infidelity
and brooding jealousies are
invested throughout with a rich
earthiness.
Whether it is a Cossack
beating-up his guilty wife, an
all-out brawl between Cos-
sacks and Ukrainians in a
market-place, or the wild fes-
tivities at a wedding, all is
presented with the utmost
realism, and no holds barred ;
yet it is informed by a warm
understanding of human
frailties.^
Although set during the last
days of Tsarist Russia, this
part of the story gives no hint
of the coming revolution ; the
few mutterings against social
injustice are virtually smoth-
ered under the weight of
passions closer to the heart.
The cameras and their muted
color are used with masterly
discretion ; and the acting all
round is vigorous and simple.
At Sydney Esquire.
+j*
“The Horse’s Mouth”
Alec Guinness who also
wrote the lucid and smooth-
running script from the Joyce
Cary novel bends the full
weight of his acting genius to
the limning of the central
character, Gulley Jimson, in
this fine British film, directed
with artistry and imagination
by Ronald Neame.
Guinness’s Jimson makes
Miirger’s bohemians seem the
essence of dull respectability.
Always there is the subtle
suggestion of a native shrewd-
ness just beneath his surface
craziness; a suggestion that
this painter, though a failure
by the world’s standards, gets
a rich satisfaction from his
dedicated work, his rough-
hewn philosophy enabling him
to withstand seeing some of it
—as with the mural he does in
a bombed chapel brutally
wrecked by the council bull-
dozer.
Right from the start Guin-
ness has you warmly sympa-
thetic towards this Jimson
whose chief concern is to be
free to paint what, where and
when he likes ; so that he has
no compunction whatever in
taking-over the vacant man-
sion of a titled art-dilettante
and splashing over an entire
wall his impressions of human
underpinnings. This episode
is only one of many in which
robust humor has free rein;
and in all of them Guinness
judges to a hair’s-breadth just
how far to go for the full
harvest of laughs.
He is most ably abetted by
Kay Walsh as the battle-axe
barmaid who follows faithfully
but vociferously his thread-
bare fortunes ; and, to a lesser
degree, by Renee Houston, as
his first wife.
At Sydney Embassy.
►j* +s■
“Carlton-Browne of the
F. 0.”
British screen-comedy has
found some of its best expres-
sion in shafts of satire shot at
officialdom, and the subject of
this sparkling effort —the
Foreign Office—is a natural.
The zany bit of nonsense is
sparked-off by British inter-
vention in the one-horse affairs
of a tiny kingdom beautifully
named Guillardia, with an
international “incident” explod-
ing out of it, Russia spoiling
for a stoush over it, and
Britain forming a useless
alliance with the half of the
island (eagerly partitioned by
the United Nations) which
doesn’t happen to have the
commodity it is after —cobalt.
As the F.O. bone-dome with
a fatal capacity for -messing
everything about, Terry-
Thomas is priceless ; but he is
unably abetted by Raymond
Huntley, as the Foreign
Minister who knows cobalt
only as a kind of paintbox
blue. Romance is capably
handled by lan Bannan, as the
monarch, and Luciana Pao-
luzzi, as an incognito blue-
blood.
At Sydney Lyceum.
“Perri”
In his latest excursion into
the realms of nature-study
Disney moves deep into the
woodlands after the life-story
of a pine-squirrel, and produces,
in total, an absorbing account
of the unending struggle for
survival of a creature whose
sole defences are speed and
agility. Shots of a savage
marten chasing the squirrel;
of the marten being chased by
a wildcat, which in turn has
to contend with the ever-
hungry fox —these reflect the
infinite patience of the
cameramen. Also creditably
captured are the natural humor
of small animals at play, and
some sound natural-history
material, such as beavers at
their structural engineering and
tree-felling work.
On the debit side is the
Disney tendency to put
saccharine into Nature’s juices
by having a Hollywood chorus
of sopranos to irritate in the
background, and by injecting
rhymed couplets and patronis-
ingly sentimental asides into
good straight commentary.
At Sydney St. James.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Count Your Blessings”
Glossy, expensive indoor
sets and many lush shots of the
Parisian scene battle vainly
against heavy padding and a
paper-thin plot in this film,
which director Jean Negulesco
has sought to make gay and
lighthearted, even trying to
force naturally serious elements
to conform. A scion of French
nobility makes a war-time
marriage with an English girl,
the subsequent doings hinging
on the stresses and strains
caused by his addiction to extra-
marital affairs. Ross a n o
Brazzi and Deborah Kerr do
their best to breathe some life
into it, with Maurice Chevalier
spreading mature charm as an
elegant old roue, uncle of the
’groom, and chief oil-pourer
on the troubled waters of the
union.
At Sydney Liberty.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1165 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 ritt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771— 8 W 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Tnter-state shipping and the shipbuild-
ing industries are passing through a
difficult period. Most inter-State cargo
used to be carried by sea, providing a
dependable source of revenue for the
shipping cos. Gradually road and rail
transport has been edging Jhe ships out.
Standardisation of the Victorian rail-
way-link will eliminate the costly and
time-consuming reloading at Albury.
Through freight rail-service will then be
possible from Brisbane to Melbourne.
This should give the railways a further
advantage, if they can take it. The inter-
Staie road - hauliers are obstructed,
Governmentally, where constitutionally
possible.
Statistics show that the relative shares
of shipping-lines, railways, and airlines
in the inter-State transport of goods have
been fairly steady since 1954.
But railways and airlines have a
greater potential for development behind
them than shipping, which is beginning
to cut expenditure on new ships of the
conventional pattern.
The new hope of inter-State shipping
is the bulk-carrier with its advantages
of mechanical loading and discharging,
quicker turnaround and good cruising
speed.
Melbourne Steam recently joined
other shipping interests in forming the
new Bulkships Ltd. (authorised capital
£5,000,000), which has given a contract
for the construction of two large (about-
-16,000 tons deadweight each) bulk-
carriers by the B.H.P. at Whyalla. The
co.’s ultimate investment in the new vent-
ure is expected to exceed £250,000.
The cost of sending cargo by sea is
normally considerably below rail, road
and air-freight rates. If the cargoes can
be moved with sufficient speed and relia-
bility, there may be a profitable future
for the companies operating bulk-
carriers. But ships operating under Aust-
ralian articles have found the 40-hour
week impossible of economic operation
at sea. It has resulted in inordinate
overtime having to be paid.
Industrial peace in the shipping and
stevedoring industries is essential. Strikes
went a long way to cripple the domestic
shipping-lines in the past and in giving
the service a name for being unreliable.
The same thing might happen again,
though the position for the present seems
to be improving.
Overall, the year to June 30 was a
difficult one for Melbourne Steamship,
as the chairman had warned the share-
holders at the previous general meeting.
The co.’s well-known (23-year-old)
passenger-and-cargo liner, m.v. Dun-
troon, had to be withdrawn from the
inter-State trade last March, due to
falling cargo and passenger revenues.
The present depressed state of the world
shipping-market makes an immediate
sale difficult, but the directors hope to
obtain a reasonable price eventually.
Net profit for the year ended June 30,
1959, was £25,998 (down £33,656), after
providing £40,735 for depreciation
(down £7297) and £1,779 for taxation
(down £30,898):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
*—Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ A
9 p.c.
1955 .. 58,186 1560 30,600 26,026 376,858
Tax overprovided, £4682 .. .. 381,540
Net addition reserves, £l5 .. .. 381,555
To staff fund, £4738 .. .. 376,817
8 p.c.
1956 . . 38,690* 1560 27,200 9,930 386,747
Profit sale vessel, £30,442 . . .. 4T7.159
Net reduction reserves, £2198 .. 414,991
1957 .. 55,210 1560 27,200 26,450 441,441
Tax overprovision, £4OOO ... . . 445,441
Profit sale assets, £2193 .. .. 447,634
Unexp. addition insurance res., £736 448,370
To long-service and contingencies,
£11,338 437,032
1958 . . 59,654 1560 27,200 30,894 467,926
Unexp. addition insurance res., £236 468,162
Unexp. reduction reserve on consoli-
dation, £3708 .. .. .. .. 464,454
To long-service leave provision, £843 463,611
1959 . . 25,998 1560 27,200 460,849
* Includes £Bl,OOO transferred from provision for
overhauls.
The taxation provision out of last year’s
earnings was not in proportion even to
the reduced profit claimed, but the
board offers no explanation. To main-
tain the 8 p.c. ord. and 6 p.c. pref. divs.,
the directors drew on reserves for £2163.
Allowing for the pref. div., the earning-
rate on ordinary capital was 7.2 p.c.
The co.’s fleet (including the now laid-
up m.v. Duntroon) is shown at the
book-value of £1,229,259, less £968,977
written-off as accumulated depreciation
provisions, leaving £260,282 (up
£13,946):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £26,000 £26,000 £26,000
Ord 340,000 340,000 340,000
Reserves .. .. 441,441 467,926 460,849
Minority interests 16,434
Creditors . . . . 489,320 542,741 354,920
Overdraft . . 6,393 46,709
Sundry provisions 121,134 131,841 133,463
Tax provision . . 31,403 34,255 12,086
Suspense account.. . 12,292 1,911 6,664
Final divs. .. 14,380 14,380 14,380
£1,482,363 £1,559,054 £1,411,505
Ships, freeholds, etc. 441,365 439,865 480,420
Shares . . . . 74,075 74,786 64,995
Stocks . . .. 158,365 134,575 118,901
Debtors . . . . 552,084 661,189 443,611
Cash, bonds .. 256,272 248,518 303,538
Intangibles . . 202 121 40
£1,482,363 £1,559,054 £1,411,505
Total fixed assets were up £40,555 at
£480,420, making visible expenditure
on fixed assets £81,290.
In May last, the co. acquired a controll-
ing-interest in the Mount Pleasant Coke
Co. Pty., Ltd., at Wollongong (N.S.W.),
and a £16,434 minority interest appears
in the consolidated figures. Other sub-
sidiaries include engineering companies in
Sydney and Fremantle and the Hob-
son’s Bay Dock and Engineering Co. Pty.
of Melbourne. In addition, the parent is
associated, through its trading depart-
ment, with four stevedoring cos., holds
several agencies and acts as a booking-
agent for a number of shipping-lines
and airlines.
Net assets backing on the consolidated
(book) figures works-out at 475. sd. for
the ords. and £32 Is. Id. for the
sharemarket at the moment is more
influenced by takeover-fever and undis-
closed increment in assets than by the
fall in profit - earning, and the 20s.
ords. were last traded in Melbourne at
345., giving a yield of 6.2 p.c. on the
basis of the 8 p.c. div. The 20s. prefs.
have been changing hands at 18s., yield-
ing 6.7 p.c.
Adelaide Cement Co., Ltd.
Vll7ith a steadily-growing demand for
* * their product in an expanding
economy, cement - manufacturers are
doing well.
After having undertaken an extensive
plant-replacement programme and ex-
pansion, Adelaide Cement Co. has turned
its attention to bringing-down the
debenture-debt guaranteed by the S.A.
Government. The div.-rate has been
limited to a maximum of 8 p.c. during
the currency of the loan. The co. has
been consistently earning a much higher
rate on its ord. capital for many years,
and has been reducing its debenture
obligations in good style.
The management seems fully confident
of the co.’s prospects. It is also wary of
any possible takeover bids, so much a
feature of present sharemarket life. It
is in this light that the recent bonus-
issue must be viewed.
In what is formally a reconstruction
of the co.’s capital, the co. is making an
effective two-for-one bonus-issue. The
terms are 12 f.-p. ss. shares in exchange
for each 20s. ord. held. This will treble
the paid ordinary capital, bringing it to
£900,000.
Under the new arrangements, the S.A.
Government loan will be repaid by
raising an overdraft from the State Bank
of S.A. It is expected that a dividend
of at least 7 p.c. will be paid on the new
ordinary capital, equal to 21 p.c. on the
old.
On the co.’s performance during the
past six years a confident outlook seems
fully justified. The earning-rate on the
ord. capital has improved from 28.2 p.c.
in 1954 to 44.6 p.c. in 1959. This makes


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange .
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
A. L. NEYITT & CO.
A. li. NEYITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO” .
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
the average earning-rate over the six
years 34 p.c.—a very satisfactory reward.
The improvement in the earning-rate has
been gradual but steady. Profits in each
of the six years showed an increase over
the preceding year, and there were no
backward steps.
Results for the past nine years are
here compared:
f —Dividends— >, To Re- Re-
May Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
31, 8 p.c. 6 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 21,060 1200 18,000 1,860 73,895
1952.. 24,511 1200 18,000 5,311 79,200
1953.. 36,914 1200 18,000 17,714 96,920
8 p.c.
1954.. 85,765 1200 24,000 60,565 157,485
Tax overprovided, £30,000 . . . . 187,485
1955.. 92,227 1200 24,000 67,027 254,512
1956.. 95,526 1200 24,000 70.326 324,838
1957.. 97,895 1200 24,000 72,695 397,533
1958.. 112,113 1200 24,000 86,913 484,446
Capital profits, £6036 . . . . 490,482
1959 135,150 1200 24,000 109,950 600,432
Profit before tax increased by £43,047
to £255,150, after providing for (among
other expenses) £150,000 for deprecia-
tion (up £10,760). The profit-figure
included £12,183 (up £1628) interest from
investments and rent from properties.
Taxation provision was £20,000 higher
at £120,000. (At the ruling rate the tax
on disclosed profit is about £95,600.)
After allowing for the unchanged pref.-
div. charge of £l2OO, the showing on ord.
capital was £133,950 (up £23,037),
equivalent to an earning-rate of 44.6 p.c.
on the pre-bonus capital.
The ord. div. at a steady 8 p.c.
absorbed £24,000, and a massive £109,950
remained for reserves.
A capital-profits reserve of £6036 was
disclosed during the year, not in evidence
in the preceding term. Total reserves
and undistributed profits amount to
£600,432, which wa-s twice the paid
ordinary capital at balance-date:
P;iid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £15,090 £15,000 £15,000
Ord 300.000 300,000 300,000
Reserves . . . . 397,533 484,446 600,432
Mortgages . . 15,487 14,857
Debentures .. 633,005 570,837 434,515
Creditors .. 196,948 214,417 253,878
Tax provision . . 99,428 129,001 167,134
Final divs. .. 12,600 12,600 12,600
£1,670,001 £1,741,158 £1,783,559
Property, plant, etc. 1,104,444 1,089,076 1,084,937
Shares .. . . 750 750 750
Stocks . . .. 206,639 198,677 237,135
Debtors . . . . - 163,237 139,380 194,049
Cash, bonds .. 194,931 313,275 266,688
£1,670,001 £1,741,158 £1,783,559
Balance-sheet figures reflect the satis-
factory progress the co. has been making.
The £14,857 on mortgage has been
wiped-out. The debentures secured by
S.A. Government were £136,322 down
at £434,515.
The original advance by the State
Bank of S.A., secured by debenture and
Government guarantee, was £900,000, at
less than 4 p.c. interest. This source of
cheap finance was of great assistance in
building the co. up to its present secure
position. The liquidation of debenture-
debt by bank-overdraft increases the rate
of interest on outstanding debentures
very modestly, and is well below the
market-rate on capital-borrowings.
Creditors were £39,461 higher at
£253,878; debtors showed a £54,669
increase to £194,049. Stocks were up
£38,458 at £237,135. Holdings of bonds
and cash total £266,688 (down £46,'587).
There are no intangibles.
On the figures disclosed, visible capi-
tal expenditure for the year was £145,861.
On the whole, with the demand for
cement being roughly equal to supplies
available, and growing steadily with the
expansion of the nation’s economy, the
co. appears to be in a strong position.
The industry is not normally subject to
grave fluctuations in demand, and in
this respect is in a privileged position
compared with many other manufac-
turers. Something very drastic must
happen to the secondary industry as a
whole, or an ideal substitute for the
product found and commercially de-
veloped, to turn the tables against cement-
producers. Both events seem most
unlikely.
If the forecast 7 p.c. div.-rate on ords.
is maintained, and there is no obvious
reason why it should not, shareholders’
effective dividend-income will rise from
8 p.c. to 21 p.c. p.a. as a result of the
two-for-one bonus issue.
This div.-rate on the new £900,000
ord. capital will absorb £63,000 a year.
The performance of Adelaide Cement
over the last six years indicates that the
profits earned will comfortably cover the
new div.-requirements (£64,200 with the
pref. divs.) and leave a reasonable sum
for paying-off the borrowings and
ploughing-back into further develop-
ment.
The sharemarket, which puts its own
value on assets, earning-power and
trading-prospects, reacted enthusiastically
to the news of the bonus-issue. The 20s.
ords., which had risen to 80s. before the
official release, jumped to 90s. when the
news was confirmed.
The ords. were last quoted on the
Adelaide Stock Exchange at 101 s. 6d.,
buyer, making the yield 4.1 p.c. on the
basis of the proposed post-bonus dividend.
The 20s. 8 p.c. cum. prefs. last sold at
255. 5d., yielding 6.3 p.c.
Net tangible assets backing on May
31, 1959, book-values works-out at just
over £3 for the ords. and at £6l os. 7d.
for the prefs.
Greater Union Theatres, Ltd.
Tn Australia, where TV was first intro-
duced less than three years ago,
initial progress has proceeded at a faster
relative rate than in either the United
States or Great Britain. In Sydney and
Melbourne together, where six stations
are now operating—one national and
two commercial in each city—over
500,000 set-licences have already been
issued. Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide
will have transmission before the end of
the year, and Hobart will follow a few
months later. TV-antennas will soon
invade country areas.
Little wonder, then, that Greater Union
Theatres, Ltd., is still viewing the situa-
tion with concern. Revenue in 1958 was
affected by reduced theatre-audiences in
Sydney and Melbourne, though the blow
has been softened by the continuation of
more satisfactory returns from operations
in the other States, together with savings
effected by rigid control of operating
costs. But the imminent introduction of
TV to the remaining States must
adversely affect cinema attendances in
those States.
Some theatres will be rendered
uneconomic’by reduced attendances and,
as in N.S.W. and Victoria, will have to
be closed-down. Greater Union has
countered to a degree by investment in
drive-in theatres. The co. has an interest
in Skyline drive-ins at Bass Hill,
Caringbah, Dundas, French’s Forest and
North Ryde, all in conjunction with Con-
solidated Drive-in Theatres Corp. Pty.
Interests are also held in Skyline drive-ins
at Lambton and Wollongong (N.S.W.). It
has other drive-in interests in Victoria,
Queensland, W.A. and S.A. as well as the
A.C.T.
In the long term, however, Greater
Union’s survival, at least in its present
capacity, will depend upon developments
in the film-industry as a whole and the
film-industry’s survival, to the extent that
it remains unallied to the TV-industry,
will depend ultimately upon the taste
and discrimination of its audiences.
To attain a high standard of TV-
presentation calls for great expenditure
of money and skill. For instance, costs of
putting on a single performance of a play
on TV are high compared with costs of
making a film of the same subject which
can be shown not once, but again and
again. The tendency of these factors is
to drive TV increasingly to the use of
popular films or a restricted choice of
plays, by choosing only those which are
thought to have the widest popular appeal
and which are often meretricious to the
last degree. Certainly TV can, and does,
provide some worth-while entertainment.
It is excellent for telecasting sporting
items, the presentation of public events
and the documentary. Good plays are
sometimes shown. But in the main it
exploits the vulgar and the obvious.
The motion-picture industry, which in
the last analysis is guided by profits, may
be able to arrest the decline in popularity
of its product if it is prepared to enter
and better TV in the fields TV seems so
disinclined to tackle. Some progress has
been achieved in this direction. The last
few years have seen the introduction of


CHEVRON
LIMITED
SYDNEY
m
:
M
a
ti
4
%
hhliitei
1M
tmimhii
111
ii
ij
HI
il
11
M
The main business of Chevron Sydney (now under
construction in Macleay St., Potts Point, Sydney)
will be to operate a Tourist Centre and Hotel of
international standard with ultimate accommodation
for 1,500 guests; air-conditioned restaurants; public,
saloon and cocktail bars; full convention facilities,
lounges, open air cafes; solarium; shopping centre;
airways terminal with booking,
information and baggage-handling
sections and ample off-street parking.
INTEREST PAID TWICE-YEARLY
free of Exchange in all Capital Cities
DEBENTURE REGISTERS
Melbourne : Sydney : Brisbane : Perth
APPLICATIONS CAN BE ACCEPTED ONLY ON THE
PRINTED FORM ATTACHED TO THE PROSPECTUS
COPIES OF FULL PROSPECTUS WITH APPLICA-
TION FORM OBTAINABLE FROM
Underwriting Brokers:
o
o
2
PER ANNUM FOR 7, 10, 15, OR 20 YEARS
' >' ;■ - " ■ ’ ’. , ■..
asset cover
TANGIBLE ASSET COVER FOR EACH £lOO OF
REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK (S £165
£2,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
PATRICK & COMPANY, Members
of the Sydney Stock Exchange, 16
O’Connell St, Sydney. BL 5911. 50
Crown St, Wollongong. Ph. 5900.
WALTER P. HAM & CO., Mem-
bers of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne, 105 Queen St.,
Melbourne. MU 6551.
CORRIE & CO., Members of the
Brisbane Stock Exchange. 400
Queen St., Brisbane. 31 2176.
Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange
Any Branch of the Any Branch of
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.
WPH22
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
The First Mortgage Deben-
ture Stock has been approved
for listing on the Stock Ex-
change in all Capital Cities.
CUT OUT AND W
POST NOW J
Share Registers &
Management Pty.
Ltd., 7 Rockwall Cr.,
Potts Point, Sydney
Please send me copy of Chevron Sydney
Limited prospectus with application form
attached.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE


GOLD COAST BRICK
CO. LTD.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
Issue of 1,240,000 5/- Ordinary Shares payable 2/6
and Balance in 2 calls of 1/3 or 5/- on application.
DIRECTORS
Chairman and Managing: Director: WALLACE EDWIN LEWIS, 120
Concord Road, Concord, N.S.W. M.I.S. (Aust.), A.S.T.C., A.M.1.E.,
Chartered Engineer.
JOHN ORFORD OGDEN. 80 Bellevue Avenue, Eastwood, N.S.W’..
Company Director. (Managing Director of W r elded Products Ltd.)
ERIK JOHN WIECKMANN, 8.E., of 22 Condover Street. Balgowlah,
N.S.W. Mechanical Engineer. (Managing Director of Comtec Pty.
Ltd.)
JOHN WILLIAM FOLLENT, M. 8., 8.5., W’harf Street, Tweed Heads,
N.S.W. Medical Practitioner.
KEITH JAMES STEWARD, A.S.T.C., of 126 Concord Rd., Concord,
N.S.W. Mechanical Engineer.
Application accepted only on the form provided by the Company.
A Prospectus may be obtained from —
The Secretary, Gold Coast Brick Co., Ltd.,
120 Concord Road, Concord, N.S.W.,
or from Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange, or
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE,
,T. J. TYNAN,
39-41 Creek St., Brisbane.
Tele.: 21714.
Member of the Brisbane Stock
Exchange.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NOLA MAUDE HINTON late of Lot
12 Waterloo Road Chulloi’a.—TAKE
NOTICE that ALFRED KENNETH
HINTON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2260 of 1959 on the ground of your
failure to comply with a Decree for
Restitution of Conjugal Rights If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the stli November 1959 and
obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge from R. H. RICHARDS, Soli-
citor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
new techniques in film pro-
duction and presentation —the
wide screen, new sound-pro-
cesses and ever more brilliant
color. But the novelty of the
new processes appears to be
wearing-off. Though Cinerama
still draws, and the new Todd-
AO process has scored a suc-
cess with films like “Around the
World in Eighty Days” and
“South Pacific,” the final fate
of the industry must . rest
not so much in methods of
screen portrayal as in the
inherent quality of the subject-
matter portrayed.
Greater Union is half-owned
(through its £400,000 ordinary
capital) by the Rank Group in
England, the other half by
Amalgamated Holdings, Ltd.;
which was formed in February,
1958, to take-over the share-
holdings in G.U.T. and other
interests of West’s, Ltd., Amal-
gamated Pictures, Ltd., Greater
J. D. Williams’ Amusement
Co., Ltd. and Spencer’s Pic-
tures, Ltd. Amalgamated
Holdings also owns all the
£500,000 of preference capital
in G.U.T. and half the shares
in British Empire Films, Ltd.,
Rank Film Distributors of
Australia Pty., National
Theatre Supply Co., and
Sixteen Millimetre Australia
Pty. In each case, the Rank
Group owns the other 50 p.c.
of the shares. Greater Union
owns all the ords. in Union
Theatres Investments, Ltd.,
Cinesound Productions and
Automatic Film Laboratories
Pty. The co., either directly or
by way of association, is
interested in well over 100
theatres throughout Australia
(in addition to its drive-in
interests), including about 30
leading picture-theatres in the
capital cities, amongst them the
State theatres of Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide.
For the year ended December
31, 1958, Greater Union
Theatres showed a consolidated
net profit of £265,386 (after
setting aside £40,000 less for
contingencies), compared with
£259,708 in the preceding year.
After deducting the proportion
belonging to. outside share-
holders of subsidiary com-
panies, the remainder was
£225,390 compared with
£228,620 and £225,061 back to
1956.
Consolidated net profit for
1958 was ascertained after
setting aside £60,000 for tele-
vision contingencies (down
£40,000 on the previous year’s
allocation), lifting the accu-
mulated provision to £710,000.
Of last year’s net profit, 5 p.c.
to pref.-shareholders (Amal-
gamated Holdings, Ltd.) took
£25,000 and £80,500 went to the
same co., with another £80,500
to the Rank organisation. These
distributions' were the same as
for the previous term. Amal-
gamated Holdings’ cut enabled
that co. to pay a 10 p.c. div.
The Greater Union Group
presents a balance-sheet show-
ing paid capital at £920,000 in
£500,000 of pref. money and
£420,000 in ords. Capital
reserves total £548,425 (down
£343), general reserves £244,201
(up £22,091), p. and. 1.
balances £1,139,391 (up
£39,390), provisions for TV
contingencies £710,000, and
interests of outside shareholders
in subsidiaries £597,580.
Freeholds, including the
State theatres, are in mostly at
pre-war cost. Total fixed
assets appear at £5,518,276
(down £177,384), against which
there is a depreciation and
amortisation reserve of
£1,957,975. During the year
some theatres of the group in
the Sydney suburbs were
closed-down and certain of the
properties sold. The board
expects that more will be closed
this year. Against the visible
reserved profits and obvious
inner strength there is £565,493
of intangibles.
The board sums-up in its
annual report last December:
“Your directors consider that
our future in Australia must
depend upon the future of
motion-picture production in
England and U.S.A., and we
believe that in Australia we
must adapt ourselves to the
changing conditions of the
industry overseas,” and then
proceeds with emphasis: “We
believe there always will be a
motion-picture industry which
will continue to supply the mass
form of public entertainment.”
Central Norseman
Touring the year Central
Norseman Gold Corp.,
N.L., treated 190,157 (up
17,962) tons of ore for 109,801
oz. (up 14,0790 z.) of fine gold
and 54,3230 z. (up 47150 z.) of
silver. This was equivalent to
an average yield of 11.55dwt.
(up 0.43dwt.) gold and s.7ldwt.
(down 0.05dwt.) silver a ton.
Of the ore produced and
sent for treatment, 50 p.c.
came from the Regent and
Crown sections of the
Phoenix mine, and 50 p.c. from
the Princess Royal.
The fatter profits won over
the last five years have been
largely the result of extensive
development and shaft-sinking,
aimed at Teaching the
higher grades available at
depth, and extensions to plant-
capacity.
Central Norseman’s higher
divs. were the main support of
Western Mining, which holds a
50 p.c. interest in the co.
Treatment of the greater
quantity of ore resulted in a
jump in profits (year ended
March 31) of £94,814' to
£754,452. This profit is net of
a £5743 additional tax-pro-
vision for the 1958-59 income,
without which the jump in
earnings would have been
£100,557:
Ore Y —Recoveries— N
Treated, Gold, Silver, Profit. Divs.
Tons. Oz. Oz. £. £
’5O 25%
137,689 44,924 31,789 182,628 162,500
’5l 15%
153,928 41,429 40,536 115,927 97,500
’52 10%
149,088 49,091 47,198 207,987 65,000
’53 50%
161,444 78',591 53,581 614,745 325,000
’54 60%
155,314 77,410 56,926 514,794 390,000
’55 60%
157,867 83,023 52,234 592,999 390,000
’56 60%
160,531 92,137 47,362 638,735.390,000
’57 60%
162,715 94,368 46,121 651,757 390.000
’5B 60%
172,195 95,722 49,608 659,638 390,000
’59 " 70%
190,157 109,801 54,323 754,452 455,000
The already juicy 60 p.c.
dividend was raised to 70 p.c.,
the cheque absorbing £455,000
(up £65,000). Total reserves
and undistributed profits are
£2,374,444, compared with a
paid capital of £650,000.
During the year £103,629
was spent on development
(£751,797), £88,406 on plant
and buildings (£1,024,226),
while £36,995 was added to
ore-stocks (£225,304). Liquids
increased by £70,422 to
£830,070. Outsiders were
owed only £86,650.
The co. operates at Norse-
man, W.A.
The ss. shares are priced at
465., offering a yield of 7.6 p.c-.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£ 2 Bs.; } year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange tQ country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin** or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
CAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, August 18.
TVTew Zealand’s export in-
come this calendar-year
will reach £296 million
assuming present prices hold
and production comes up to
estimates.
This opinion was expressed
by the Secretary of the Trea-
sury, Mr. E. L. Greensmith,
giving evidence in the Court of'
Arbitration during the hearing
on the application for a general
wage-increase.
Mr. Greensmith detailed the
estimated receipts for different
groups of exports as follows
(the comparable figures for
1958 are shown in paren-
theses) :
£m. £m.
Butter .. .. 57 (43)
Cheese .. .. 23 (18)
Meat .. .. 75 (85)
Wool .. .. 91 (82)
Other .. .. 50 (47)
Total .. .. 296 (274)
Mr. Greensmith’s figures
were based on continuation of
the following prices: Butter,
3705. per cwt. ; cheese, 2905.
per cwt. ; lamb, 19.75 d. per lb. ;
wool, 43d. per lb.
The wool price was 7d. a
pound more than the average
for the past season ; if con-
tinued it would result in the
wool-cheque rising £l6 million,
and wool would again become
the largest export-earner, Mr.
Greensmith said.
Questioned on the Reserve
Bank figures for overseas-ex-
change transactions which
showed a surplus of £4l million
for the year ended June 30,
against a deficit of £59.7 million
the previous year —Greensmith
agreed that the position had
improved appreciably compared
with that of a year ago, though
imports had been cut heavily.
The president of the court,
Mr. Justice Tyndall: You
would rather describe it as a
less difficult period than as the
start of a period of prosperity?
Mr. Greensmith: Yes.
Mr. F. P. Walsh, president
of the Federation of Labor,
asked: Do you think there is
a very black cloud hanging
over us?
Mr. Greensmith: Not a
black cloud ; a small one, such
as the price of lamb.
He told the court that net
overseas assets of the banking
system (now at £102.9 million)
were “very good” compared
with the figure 12 months ago
(£56.7 million). But they were
not so good when compared
with the figure of two years
ago (£106.8 million).
It was well to bear in mind
—in view of the increase in
population and investment —
that the country would be
short of imports, perhaps as
much as £3O million. Imports
this year would total only £2lO
million, compared with £240
million and £268 million in the
previous two years.
TV in N.Z.
A proposed television system
for N.Z. was outlined by the
secretary of the Industries and
Commerce Department, Dr.
W. B. Sutch, in a recent address
to the Christchurch branch of
the Economic Society of Aus-
tralia and N.Z.
The scheme is generally
regarded as reflecting the
Government’s present thinking
on the subject. It is considered
that Dr. Sutch put it forward
as a feeler to test public reac-
tion.
Features of the scheme, as
set out by Dr. Sutch, include:
Preference for a State-operated
service.
No advertising, at least during
development stages.
Revenue from licence-fees and
possibly a tax on components.
Four main-centre stations; six
minor stations.
A large proportion of imported
programmes.
A market that could total 230,000
receivers in five years.
Receivers averaging £125 for 17in.
screens; £l5O for 21in.
Installation-fees and servicing, £5
to £lO.
A licence-fee of £lO a year
(including 30s. for sound-broad-
casting).
A tax on tubes ' (£5) to meet
establishment costs.
Assuming the establishment
of 10 stations over six years,
Dr. Sutch placed the total cost
at £7.3 million (£1 million on
studios, £650,000 on transmis-
sion, £2.3 million on operating
and administration, £1.85
million on New Zealand pro-
grammes and £1.45 million on
imported programmes).
Over the same period he
estimated the £5 tube-tax to
realise £1,150,000 and the
£8 10s. television share of the
licence-fee to bring in
£1,950,000 a total of £7.1
million.
Overseas funds for tele-
vision might be expected to
absorb £6,730,000 over six
years, offset to some extent
(estimated £2.05 million) by
savings in imports of parts for
other appliances whose pro-
duction had fallen-off—a net
increase in foreign-exchange
expenditure of £4,680,000.
“It is now almost inevitable
that a regular television service
will be introduced in N.Z., and
that, before many years have
passed, the service will be ex-
tended to most centres of popu-
lation so that more than half
of the homes in N.Z. will have
television receivers,” Dr. Sutch
said.
“N.Z. is probably past the
point of considering whether
television should be introduced.
That being the case, we should
be on the eve of the great
debate when, how and in what
form television should be
introduced and operated, and
to examine the likely social and
economic effects of its intro-
duction.”
Dr. Sutch said that from
the economic point of view,
financing by licence-fee might
be cheaper and fairer for the
consumer in N.Z. than any
system which involved adver-
tising.
If it could be shown that,
when a maximum audience had
been obtained, a service could
be maintained economically,
financed by licence-fees alone,
his personal view was that this
course should be followed.
The only advantage of com-
mercial television seemed to
be that it appeared to provide
a cheaper service. This might
be true in the United States and
probably in Britain, with large
markets and audiences, but it
was doubtful whether it would
be true of N.Z.
Discussing the effects of the
introduction of television on
sales of other products, Dr.
Sutch said that, assuming sales
of receivers at 20,000, rising to
50,000 in two years, and
assuming that half the sets
were bought on hire-purchase
on a low deposit and two
years’ terms, the capital
required for financing recep-
tion would be about £3 million,
rising later to £5 million.
“Oncjd television is intro-
duced not only will many
people buy receivers in pre-
ference to other appliances,
but they will refrain from buy-
ing other goods while they
save to buy a receiver. In addi-
tion, people who have
bought a receiver on hire-
purchase are not often able to
afford other appliances for
some time, n he said.
Dr. Sutch said it was
reasonable to expect that the
demand for radios would
remain for some time about 25
per cent, below the previous
average and slowly recover, and
that refrigerator production,
which had fallen recently,
would fall to at least 20 per
cent, below past levels. Manu-
facturers of other household
appliances might be affected to
a lesser degree.
The Association of New Zea-
land Advertisers at its annual
conference expressed concern at
the suggestion that television
should be Government-con-
trolled.
The advertisers will ask the
Government whether Dr.
Sutch was expressing Govern-
ment policy or purely personal
ideas.
A speaker described Dr.
Sutch’s remarks as “significant
from so eminent a public
servant,” especially as the
matter might be considered
subjudice, there being a de-
partmental committee of
inquiry sitting on the question
at the moment.


Planting Pastorale
Wr e didn't like the sugar-
cane planting - time
' much, Gilly and I.
Cane-stalks had to
be cleaned free of leaves and
thrash before planting. Gilly’s
father held our dexterity at
this process in high regard.
“It’s the only job on the
farm I’d ever trust the young
beggars to do,” he told Gilly’s
big brother Nick as they stood
on the headland contemplating
the broad, unplanted acres of
the aerodrome-block. He sur-
veyed us intently.
“You can strip cane for an
hour after school of an after-
noon,” he decided. “It won’t
kill you.’”'
Gilly shuffled his bare feet
and traced a pattern in the
dust of the headland.
“It 'ull help, though,” he
said dolefully.
“There’s nothing wrong
with a bit of cane-stripping,”
his father pointed out. He
took vantage-point on a dais
of cane-tops near the plough
and made oratory.
“If all the cane I’ve stripped
in my time was placed end-
to-end it would reach three
times around the world at the
Equator, and that’s a lot of
cane.”
Gilly nodded doubtfully.
“It’s a lot of bloomin’ Hairy
Mary, too,” he pointed out.
His father dismissed the
hazards of Hairy Mary with a
snort.
“A bit of cane-hair won’t
hurt you,” he said magnani-
mously.
Gilly squinted and drove his
chin into his shoulder. “It
makes you terrible itchy, but,”
he countered. He probed for
the full extent of coming
misery.
“What sort of cane you
gonna plant?” he demanded.
His father gazed calculat-
ingly at ground-texture. “I
reckon a man ought to try a
bit of Clarke’s Seedling,” he
announced.
Gilly scowled. “Jeez,” he
said. “A man oughta known.
That's got Hairy Mary some-
thing chronic” ...
dipped a kerosene-tin
into an open 44-gallon
drum full of water and walked
to the boiling radiator of the
By CLIVE MORTON
10/20 tractor. There were
other drums scattered around
the farm, open to receive the
rains of the wet season, all
part of a formula of prepara-
tion for the working needs of
the radiator.
“We want a couple of blokes
to cut plants, too,” he said.
Gilly’s father nodded. “You
might get a couple of those
colored fellows from the camp
down the river,” he suggested.
“There’s that old Toby—he’s
not bad on the knife. What’s
he doing?”
“Three months in Stuart
Creek peter for belting-up his
his wife,” Nick said.
“Ah, well, that cuts him
out,” Gilly’s father decided.
“What about that nephew of
his —that Charlie. Couldn’t we
get him?”
Nick shook his head. “No.
He found out he couldn’t
afford to work. He gets eleven
quid a week with Social Ser-
vice and Child Endowment. If
he works he does his Social
Service, and his taxation’s too
high, so he had to retire.”
Gilly’s father considered
these complications to the
hiring of a labor force. He
threw up his hands in defeat.
“Well, for God’s sake go
into town and try to get some-
one tonight,” he said.
“TX7ELL,” he demanded next
’ * morning as he walked
into the stable-yard, “what did
you get?”
Nick withdrew his head
from the depths of the horse-
trough.
“A flat tyre, the petrol-tank
milked, three Greeks and the
worst bloody hangover since
VJ-Day,” he said, wiping his
dripping face on an abandoned
flannel hanging on a fencewire.
He shuddered.
“You go into town looking
for men next time,” he told
Gilly’s father. “I’ve had
enough of going round the
pubs looking for men and get-
ting myself and them tanked
in the process.”
“But there’s no need to get
men drunk just because you
want them to cut plants.”
Nick moaned.
“There was with these
blokes,” he said. “They just
walked-out on a cane-cut. They
only came into town to catch
last night’s train to Brisbane,
and there isn’t another one for
three days.”
Gilly’s father nodded.
“Where are they now?” he
demanded. Nick tentatively
opened one eye.
“In the barracks,” he said.
“I’ll go and get them out to
work.”
“I wouldn’t do that for a
while,” Nick advised. “When
the publican and I carried them
out on to the back of the truck
last night I told them I was
driving them to the railway
station . . .”
The Greeks approached the
plant-cutting with minds pre-
judiced by their introduction
to it. After two days Gilly’s
father passed judgment.
“I don’t think those fellows
are working terribly hard,” he
said.
Gilly found doubt in the
appraisal. “We got to work
real hard after school stripping
the cane they’ve cut, but,” he
said. “We can just keep up to
them.”
His father regarded him
with jaundiced eye. “That’s
just what I mean,” he said.
Their industry also failed to
impress Nick. “I think we
better let them catch the next
train,” he said. “One of them
asked me not to drive the
tractor past where they’re cut-
ting plants.”
Gilly’s father’s face regis-
tered interest. “Go on,” he
said. “Why was that?”
“Aw,” Nick said, “he
reckoned the tractor made too
much noise going past. Kept
waking them up all the time
when they’re sleeping in the
cane.”
He gazed at cane-stalks
piled in neat bundles along
the headland.
“I’ll cart another load out,”


Yon can easily
take sparkling
indoor flash
snaps . . .
WITH A
BROWNIE
FLASH
CAMERA
OUTFIT
V/N'*
m
BCOB
Here’s the world’s favourite
"snapshooter” with its own
flasholder, flashbulbs, bat-
teries and Kodak Film in
one big-value outfit. With
this in the home the whole
family will enjoy picture-
making indoors and out,
anywhere, anytime. Ideal
for a gift . . .
£5.10.0
Kodak
IT’S MADE BY
SO YOU KNOW IT’S GOOD.
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
he said, “and you can bring
the planter down. We might
as well start.”
Tt was not a very successful
beginning.
Gilly’s father thundered
along the headland on the
tractor, reached the site of the -
first drill, swore as the wind
blew down the end marking-
stick, swore at the stiffness of
steering-linkage and -pins as he
wrenched at the steering-wheel,
swore as his hat-brim blew
over his eyes, swore as an
over-long stalk of cane from
the canecutter-planter behind
masqueraded as a lance and
thrust sharp, bevel-cut end
into his back, and yelled at
Nick to lever the planter into
the ground.
Nick climbed onto the
machine, took stance with
feet braced, hands locked
around drill-plough lever and
bellowed for movement. Gilly
and I stood watching. The
tractor moved forward, steel
front-wheels, flail-edged as
chariots, sinking and rolling.
And the drill-plough was a
shark, lunging straight forward
through a sea of soft soil, a
wake of earth washing aside
behind it.
In the drill, foot-lengths of
cane lay in hard-bottom graves,
fertiliser - shrouded. Nick
looked over his shoulder as he
fed cane-stalks into the mouth
of the knife-chute and dis-
covered a technical flaw in the
operation of the fertiliser-
distributor bolted behind him.
“Stop,” he said. “The dung-
cart’s blocked-up.”
He scooped handfuls of
robust - smelling fertiliser out
of the cart into a kerosene-
tin and inspected the base-
boards around the planter-
knives critically.
“You can’t see the plants
dropping for these boards,” he
discovered, with a mind bent
on modification. An alterna-
tive in design came to him.
“We’ll throw the boards to
hell,” he decided.
Gilly’s father scratched his
head. “They must have put
them there for a reason, Nick,”
he suggested. It was a remark
charged with hidden challenge.
Nick held fixed views on the
capabilities of design-engin-
eers. /
“They probably never got
nearer to a cane-paddock than
an office-chair when they drew
the plans for these,” he de-
clared, dragging the boards
away from the oscillating
shaft.
“Righto— start-up.” Gilly’s
father grated the tractor into
gear and drove down the pad-
dock a few yards. He stopped.
“Hey, Nick, the wheels on
the planter aren’t turning,” he
said: “There must be some-
thing jammed in the works.”
“Get a bloody shifting-
spanner,” Nick bellowed.
Gilly’s father climbed sedately
down from the tractor-seat.
“Hurry up!” Nick roared.
Gilly’s father frowned.
“Now, there’s no occasion to
go on like that,” he chided.
“After all, the planter’s been
blocked-up before today.”
“Hurry up!” Nick shouted.
Gilly’s father climbed onto
the planter. “Now, what’s
blocking it?” he inquired.
“Me bloody foot,” Nick
raved. “It’s jammed against
the shaft. It slipped down the
hole where I took the boards
out.”
r T"'HE planting progressed
slowly across the aero-
drome-block. Already in the
first rows planted green shoots
of young cane broke grey
ground-surface and stretched
in narrowing lanes into the
distance. Gilly’s father con-
templated this coming crop
with misgivings.
“ ’Struth,” he complained,
“we’ll have to shift a finger.
The damn’ cane’ll be ready to
cut on one side of the paddock
before we finish planting the
other if we don’t hurry up.
We need another man to cut
plants.”
The Horse Liniment Man
would have been a good
plant-cutter had. it not been
for his back.
“I suffer with it something
cruel,” he told Gilly’s father
the day he started. “It’s a
misplaced vertebra. The only
relief I get is to rub it with
horse-liniment every couple of
hours.”
He tapped his hip-pocket.
“Always carry a bottle. Doesn’t
matter where I am, always
give the back a bit of a rub
every couple of hours. It’s a
bit awkward in the pictures
and places like that, but I still
give her the rub. Only thing
for a misplaced vertebra is
the old horse-liniment.”
In spite of the time spent in
massaging, the Horse Liniment
Man was a valuable asset to
the planting. Gilly’s father
accepted his resignation with
great regret.
“Is it your back come
against you?” he asked. The
Horse Liniment Man shook
his head.
“No,” he said. “It would
take better than a misplaced
vertebra to stop me working.
The fact is, I’ve got to get out
of the district by next week.
I’ve got wife-trouble.”
Gilly’s father clicked sym-
pathetically.
“Oh,” he said. “I hope the
little lady isn’t sick?”
“It’s not that,” the Horse
Liniment Man explained. “It’s
her husband. He comes home
from his holidays on Tues-
day.”
Gilly’s father watched him
ride away down the headland.
“Huh,” he snorted. “Mis-
placed vertebra . . .”
He turned his head and
looked at the half-completed
planting with satisfaction.
“Well, it can’t be helped,”
he said. “It’s going slowly,
but there’s no doubt about it,
we’re getting a wonderful
strike with the plants. That’s
the nicest bit of young cane
I’ve ever seen on the farm.”
He shook his head.
“I can’t understand it,” he
said. “Something should have
gone wrong and beggared it
up before this. Something’s a
moral to happen.”
Something did.
IVTiCK heard the sound as he
sat in a fan of light oh
the back-steps examining the
slowly-diminishing swelling of
his foot. He peered out into
darkness.
“The horses are out,” he
said. “Can’t you hear the
tweep?”
We listened to the sound of
cane-shoots being pulled from
plant centres. Gilly’s father
shone a torch across the stable-
yard until the beam found a
challenge of reflected eyes.
“They’re not ours,” he said.
“They’re still in the yard.”
Nick hobbled to his feet.
“Bloody rubbish off the
road,” he roared. He flashed a
significant glance at the service-
rifle leaning against the kitchen
wall.
“No,” Gilly’s father said.
“I’ll have none of that, it’s too
cruel. Besides, someone would
see us dragging them away and
put us in with the rozzas.”
“But damn it all,” Nick
protested, “they’re only useless
old crocks no one wants.”
Gilly’s father nodded sagely.
“You get the gun and get one
of them leaded-up, and as soon
as it hits the ground its owner
will find its pedigree goes back
to William the Conqueror,” he
prophesied. ' He proffered the
torch to Gilly.
“Get your shanghais and
chase them out on to the road,”
he ordered.
We returned an hour later
jubilant.
“We rattled them up” Gilly
boasted, “and chased them
right up the road. You’ll have
no more trouble with them.”
Nick arched an eyebrow.
“Listen,” he said with ears
tuned to the location of the
aerodrome-block.
“Jeez,” Gilly said disgustedly.
“They beat us back.”
“They must be getting
through the bottom fence,” his
father decided. “The wire’s all
rusty.” He paced the kitchen.
“We’ll have to put up the
{Continued on page 49)


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
School holidays, pelting rain, long
movie-theatre queues, dripping umbrellas,
short tempers. Then sunshine, packed
ferries, children streaming around
Taronga Park, sticky-faced and happy,
King Kong thumping his barrel-chest
and pitching sawdust out at the squeal-
ing mob, and sad-eyed Jimmy (billed
as the Shipwrecked Movie Star) climbing
high above their heads to peer out
anxiously . . . “Looks sick ; must be
pining for his boss,” a universal comment
that could be uncomfortably true.
☆ ☆ ☆
Visitors swept into town in droves;
some just a leisurely part of the usual
school-holiday scene, others bound for
Pott’s Point headquarters of the C.W.A.
and the annual conference of its Younger
Set, whose delegates came from as far
as Aberdeen, Boggabri, Come-by-Chance,
Dubbo, Gosford, Henty, Narrabri,
Quandialla, Maitland, Tullibigeal and
Wellington. C.W.A. State president, Mrs.
H. Jefferson Bate, opened the conference,
which was chaired by State-leader Miss
Kay Harrison. Conference-secretary was
Miss Marianne Schuett.
☆ ☆ ☆
Visitors from. inter-State and country
were among the guests at the evening
wedding of Elizabeth Wald and David
Morrow at St. Stephen’s, Macquarie
Street, and later at the reception held at
The Australia. The bride, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Colin Wald, of Belle-
vue, Condobolin, looked lovely in a gown
of heavy white satin, which she had
brought from Paris. With it she wore
her mother’s wedding-veil of Brussells-
lace, which fell over her face as she
entered . the church, and completely
covered the train of 'her gown at the
back. Her bouquet was of camellias,
gardenias and stephanotis. The three
bridesmaids, dressed in white chiffon,
made a vivid splash of color with the
flowers they carried to match their
Paris - red headbands. They were
Beverley Laycock (Adelaide), Joan
L’Estrange and Marnie Morrow. The
bridegroom, who is the only son of Mr.
and Mrs. A. R. (Reg.) Morrow, of
Runnymede, Cassilis, had David Power,
of Widgin Gully, as best man. Graham
Wald (Condobolin) and Jim Hall, Jr.
(Forbes), were groomsmen. After a
honeymoon at Surfer’s Paradise, the
young couple will make their home at
the bridegroom’s property at Forbes.
☆ ☆ ☆
Flowers that bloom in the spring are
rivalled by those that pop up as if by
magic when the Lady Mayoress’ ball-
committee meets at the Town Hall. For
its members are all busy making artificial
blossoms for decorations to use for the
ball next month, and as they talk they
work. Thousands of pink and white
carnations will be massed, and hoops of
hydrangea, tied with huge satin bows,
will form part of the garden through
which debutantes will walk to make their
bow to Lord Mayor Jensen and Mrs.
Jensen. It promises to be a very beautiful
scene, and those who wish to watch it
from the balcony of the Town Hall
may obtain tickets at 3s. each. The Lady
Mayoress is president of the ball-com-
mittee, Mrs. C. M Guiney is hon.
secretary, and Mrs. Hope-Gibson hon.
treasurer.
Romance is where you find it, judging
from the experience of vivacious Sandra
Booth and her fiance, Ted Duncan. He
was “just the boy next door’ when they
were growing-up in Sydney, but it was
different when they met again in London,
where both were studying their respective
professions. Sandra is a nursing-sister,
and the elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
S. A. Booth, of East Lind field; Ted is
a dentist and the son of Mr. and Mrs.
A. M. Duncan,, of Roseville. They plan
to marry on November 14 at Barker
College, where Ted was educated. Norton
Trevaire photo.
A young Wollongong dancer, Jan
Whelan, has won the Frances Scully
Memorial Scholarship to the Royal
School of Ballet in London, awarded by
the Scully-Borovansky School of Ballet.
Her fellow-townspeople are showing
their pride in practical fashion by the
establishment of a fund to help her
financially while she is abroad, and a
concert for this purpose was held at
Wollongong on Sunday, when other
finalists in the scholarship competition
took part. Jan, who is 17, leaves by air
for London tomorrow, September 3.
Mothballs will be shaken out of kilts
that haven’t had an airing for a long
time, now that the four great Scottish
clans of Campbell, MacLeod, Chisholm
and Mac Neil are holding a combined
Ceilidh in Sydney on September 7 at
No. 100 Clarence Street, where tartan
rugs will form part of the decorations
and masses of flowers will come from
the home of the president o’ the Campbell
Clan, Mr. Andrew Campbell, at Gordon.
Further details of the Ceilidh (pro-
nounced Cailey) may be had from Miss
Gloria Thompson (WA 1542).
* * *
An amusing invitation has been sent
out by the younger set of Crown-street
Women’s Hospital to a dinner-dance at
the Pickwick Club tonight (September 2).
The invitation-card of pastel-pink has
an illustration of a very long-legged
stork carrying a new baby with “We Are
Expecting! ” printed in bold, white letters.
Tickets are 30s. each. Patroness of the
auxiliary is Mrs. Donald Coburn ; presi-
dent, Mrs. John Trenerry; vice-presi-
dents, Mrs. Peter Hodgson, Mrs. David
Moyes, Mrs. Roy Michael, Mrs. Gordon
Pettit; hon. secretary, Mrs. Donald
Guest; hon. treasurers, Mrs. Bevan
Harris, Mrs. Keith Pedler ; in charge of
publicity, Mrs. Edward Archer.
☆* ' *
Decorated bicycles will be seen in' a
procession at the great carnival spon-
sored by the Northern Metropolitan
District Council of the R.S.L. and its
21 branches at Chatswood Oval, on
Saturday next, September 5, and other
attractions include a grand fireworks
display after dark; wood-chopping
exhibitions with experts competing, and
stalls stacked with just about every con-
ceivable thing to delight young and not-
so-young. The money raised at the
carnival will provide a lift at the Lady
Gowrie Red Cross home for elderly and
disabled servicemen and -women at
Gordon —a very necessary installation
now that the years are beginning to affect
its residents. A special plea to house-
holders —if there is anything in your
home you don’t really want, but is too
good to throw away, it would be gladly
received at the White Elephant stall.
All goods can be sent to the honorary-
organiser, c/o Chatswood R.S.L., marked
“Red Cross.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Among visitors to Sydney and The
Bulletin office last week was Mrs.
J. J. Connellan (better known to readers
as poetess Mary Finnin). A love of old
buildings set her wandering around a
wide radius of Macquarie Street, to
find an old place near the Quay that
delighted her immensely with its worn
stone steps and mullioned windows. The
home in which Mrs. Connellan and her
husband live in the Melbourne suburb
of Toorak is a very old place, and she
has had some happy times restoring and
furnishing it to suit its character. She
has also a great affection for dogs, and
in a recent poem paid tribute to those
who had been “in the family” over the
years.


MELBOURNE
The fashion-trends for spring and
summer, as shown in the collection by
George’s of Collins Street, reveal that the
amorphous horror has gone into the
discard, and the waist fixed where it
should be, with the proper emphasis on
curves and feminine appeal. The belt
returns ; large white collars, sometimes
of breathtaking dimensions, widen the
shoulders; and sleeves are wider or
billow-out in butterfly- or bouffant-shapes.
Another attractive feature is the loose,
shorter jacket. There are two points of
departure: the tunic-length jacket and the
belted hip-length jacket. Skirts mostly
curve gently from the waist or fall with
restrained fullness from a tight waist-
band. The all-pleated dress has its place
and the shirtwaist-dress will be popular
for all hours of the day.
Among suits that were admired was
one of cream serge by Chanel, of Paris ;
it featured the slim skirt and jacket,
which was piped with navy braid. With
it was worn a high-crowned white hat
finished with navy veiling. An
ottoman-silk coat in the new tender-bud-
green shade, designed by Pierre Carden,
of Paris, had a fan of pleats caught at
the dropped shoulderline with tiny bows,
giving new fullness to the sleeves. White
waffle-pique made a slim-skirted suit
which featured the new tunic-length
jacket; it was belted and had huge patch-
pockets. With it went a hat, high-
crowned and banded with red-and-white-
spotted ribbon. Bands of rose-patterned
cotton were seen at the hem and short
sleeves of a pink-and-white-spotted
cotton. For dancing there was a white
Chantilly-lace mounted on pink satin,
the bodice featuring a deep-V back and
front. A~ tulip-line black-taffeta skirt
allied to a bodice of frosted - white
Swiss-lace was highlighted with a pink-
satin cummerbund.
For hats, silhouettes are crisper, crowns
are higher, and brims of varied shapes
and dimensions balance the rediscovered
curves. The color-palette is saturated
with all the mosaic blues, lots of pinks
and yellow (as worn by Princess Alex-
andra) a popular choice. By contrast
there is black frosted with white. Most
attractive were the mushroom-shapes and
hats crowned with masses of flowers.
☆ ☆ ☆
The retiring. Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. Sir Frederick and Lady
Thomas) gave an informal late-afternoon
party at the Town Hall, the final func-
tion before leaving office. The hostess
wore a cqcktail-frock of leaf-green
Chantilly-lace over taffeta. Among the
many guests were Premier Henry Bolte
and Mrs. Bolte (she in a smart black
wool-crepe cocktail-frock and small black
veil-fascinator); councillors’ wives Mrs.
Douglas Cox and Mrs. Leo Curtis (both
wearing black frocks); Parisian visitor
Madame Anatole Rogers ; Mr. and Mrs.
Eric Rogers ; Sir Frank and Lady Tait;
Sir Edgar and Lady Coles ; Mr. and
Mrs. W. W. Killough (they left soon
afterwards for a three-months’ holiday
in the U.S.); U.S. Consul-General
Graham Hall and Mrs. Hall; Mrs.
Garnet Carroll and her son John ; Cr.
Sir Harold Gengoult Smith and his wife
and daughter Marion; Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside; Mr. and Mrs. John
Inkster ; Mr. and Mrs. Bert Chadwick ;
Thai Consul H. I. Fader and Mrs. Fader ;
and Mr. and Mrs. Guy Bakewell.
Here is the new Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Bernard Evans, wife of Cr. Bernard
Evans, of Toorak. Country-born (her
grandparents were pioneers in Gipps-
land), she learned singing at the Albert
Street Conservatorium, but marriage
ended a promising singing-career. Dur-
ing the last war Mrs. Evans organised
a group of 30 women to do camouflage
work for the Army. Since her husband
entered the City Council she has been
treasurer of the Ethel Nilsen Day Nur-
sery and president of the Princes Hill
Village Auxiliary (formed to help raise
money for the building and maintaining
of the 96 Darby-and-Joan flats which will
be opened in August, 1960). Mrs. Evans
is also on the board of management of
the Australian National Theatre. Cr. and
Mrs. Evans have a son, Ronald, and two
daughters: Mary (Mrs. Louis Sallmann)
and Margot, who is now at the Univer-
sity doing a physical-education course.
Dressmaking, embroidering and garden-
ing take up the new Lady Mayoress's
leisure time. John Warlow photo.
St. Giles Presbyterian Mur-
rumbeena, was the setting for the
marriage of Wendy Elizabeth, daughter
of Mr. E. M. C. Fox, M.H.R., and Mrs.
Fox, of Carnegie, and Robert Edward,
youngest son of Mr. E. E. Potter, of
Coburg, and the late Mrs. Potter. The
bride’s long-sleeved gown of white
delustred satin had appliques of French-
satin roses ; her triple-tiered elbow-length
veil was held by a circlet of orange-
blossom, and she carried a bouquet of
white rosebuds and hyacinths. The
bride’s sister, Robyn, and Ann Howden
were bridesmaids. They wore short
frocks of pale-pink peau-de-soie, with
short sleeves and panniered bell-shaped
skirts. Flat bows of japonica-pink satin
were worn at the back of the head, and
they carried bouquets of pink hyacinths
and cyclamen. The bridegroom, who is
a theological student at Ormond College,
had fellow-student Stan Ford as best
man. Ushers were David Potter and
Graham Leech. The bride’s uncle, Rev.
Dudley Fox, of Hobart, assisted the Rev.
W. Howden at the ceremony. Reception
was at Dynevor, St. Kilda.
#
Two popular members of the younger-
members’ group of the English-speaking
Union, Patricia Wood Wykes and Brian
Ogilvie Ely, have announced their
engagement. Patricia, who was educated
at M.L.C. and is a receptionist, is the
only daughter of Mrs. Wykes, of Caul-
field ; Brian, who is the younger son
of Mr. and Mrs. David Ely, of Moonee
Ponds, was educated at Scotch College ;
he is a wool-buyer. Marriage will take
place next year in the chapel of
Patricia’s old school.
# # #
Not many committees in this city can
raise £2OOO from a ball, but the youthful
Wool Ball committee did it at this year’s
annual function held in the Royale Ball-
room. Decor naturally played on the
wool-theme. Pink cardboard-lambs with
human faces, and dressed in. national
costumes representing countries which
buy our wool, sat at each end of the
tables, which were centred with weaving-
spools and long red-and-white streamers.
Roima the walls were gay travel-posters,
and from a huge cluster of red balloons
in the centre of the ceiling radiated more
red-and-white streamers. Barbara Zin-
now, Meg Harry, Amanda Larritt, Louise
Shepherd, Deirdre Davey, Jenny Strat-
mann and Gail Challingsworth were
responsible for these effects. President of
the committee, Elizabeth Mildred (she
returned recently from a four-months’
trip to Japan with her parents) and Jane
Hennessy (who wore coral-pink chiffons)
received the official guests, apiong whom
were Opportunity Clubs’ chairman A. J.
Atkinson and Mrs. Atkinson, and Mr.
and Mrs. Cecil Greaves.
Among many pretty girls who danced
were Carmen Clarke, in a full, long
gown of black-spotted white organza ;
Jenny Stratmann, whose pale-blue
organza was spotted in deeper-blue;
Virginia Smith, her short frock of black-
spotted organza featuring a high Empire-
waistline ; Penny Lane, wearing peacock-
green chiffon, cut sheath-like and with
the high Empire-line; Eve Brimwade,
in white taffeta pin - spotted in pink;
Ann Mackinnon, whose full formal gown
of white was patterned in misty florals ;
and Mrs. Tony Arnold, whose heavy
white-faille gown with its peacock-hem-
line had the skirt embroidered in gold
leaves.


Between
Ourselves
ft
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MiRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
This school will devote the
coming year to a large-scale project
on Australia. Besides economic
facts and figures, available to us
through Australia House in London,
we need Australian newspapers and
periodicals. Perhaps our greatest
need is to obtain some of the
following articles: (1) Australian
matchboxes, stamps and cigarette-
boxes ; (2) Rock, clay and ore
specimens, with labels; (3) Coral
from the Great Barrier Reef;
(4) Aboriginal implements and
weapons; (5) Any leaves, twigs or
cones from trees peculiar to Aus-
tralia. We will be most grateful
for anything sent. E. Armstrong,
Vice-Principal, St. Colman’s Second-
ary Intermediate School, Melmount,
Strabane, Northern Ireland.
Words of old pig-sticking song
beginning “Over the valley, over
the level.” —6871.
The Coastwatchers, by Eric Feldt.
—6869.
Tuscan Spring, by James Cleugh;
A Man’s Man, by lan Hay; and
Polonaise, by Martin Hare.—6B7o.
Information Supplied
(From “B.I.K.”): May I add to
the “Service Department” answer
on the sowing of subterranean-
clover (B. 12/8/’59)? I’ve found
that mixing the seed with the
manure affects germination.
I established sub .-clover 26 miles
east of Singleton in ’O6 and ’O7
(no super, in those days!), putting
the seed in wherever a log had
been burnt. In this very hilly
country, 33 years later, the clover
had taken charge, helped of course
by myxo. which knocked-out the
rabbits. Over the past eight years
the method I’ve used in the Yass
district in granite, shale and pipe-
clay soils has given good results.
Mix seed, clovers and grass-seed
as well in a tub, 301 b. at a time,
dry, and work-in four double-
handfuls of lime. Add the neces-
sary amount of inoculant, Wetted-
dovvn with milk and sugar to make
it stick, and sow through a seed-
box inside eight hours, keeping it
out of direct sunshine until you
use it. March and April are the
best months, but I’ve had a good
strike up to June 28.
Use one to two cwt. lime to the
acre on the land before it is
harrowed or sunpronged and sown
—lime is a catalyst and will release
any dormant elements in the soil.
Four-ounces white-clover added to
the mixture will be a help if it will
grow the first year (even if it dies
afterwards in the heat) since it
will create an element in the soil
which will make the sub.-clover
freely nodulate during the first year
and so build fertility quickly. *
An added 3 to 4 per cent, muriate-
of-potash will assist almost any
ground. A paddock of 205 acres
between Yass and Boorowa which
usually carried 10 horses and 10
head of cattle (shale and very poof
wet soil) has carried 700 Merino
ewes and lambed them five times
since 1953.
* * * *
(From “Kanimbla”): Ex-Diggers
and others interested in the song
“The Rose of No Man’s Land”
might like the full text. “Smithy”
(B. 19/8/ ’59) forwarded only the
chorus.
I’ve seen some beautiful flowers
Grow in life’s garden fair;
I’ve spent some wonderful hours,
Lost in their lragranee rare;
But 1 have found another,
Wondrous beyond compare.
Chorus : There’s a rose that grows, etc.
Out of the heavenly splendor,
Down to the trail of woe,
God in His mercy has sent her,-
Cheering the world below ;
We call her Rose of Heaven,
We’ve learned to love her so.
Jack Caddigan wrote the words,
James A. Brennan the music.
Information Sought
Why is Norway sometimes called
the “Land of the Midnight Sun”?
In the Arctic and Antarctic there
are periods when the sun does not
descend below and others when
it does not rise above the horizon
within the 24 hours of the day.
At the poles these periods are half-
a-year. They, decrease in regions
closer to the polar circles, beyond
which the phenomenon can no
longer occur. Northern Norway
is the region of the Arctic most
frequently visited by travellers from
Western Europe. Hence its common
association with the sun shining at
midnight for a time in midsummer.
(1) Precisely what is meant by
the “pointing” of psalms ? (2) Is
there a universal system of pointing ?
(1) “Pointing” can be defined as
the logical breaking-up of a psalm
into connected phrases.. Each verse
is normally divided into seven
parts; the “divisions” consist of
small marks at the beginning and
end of the appropriate phrases to
indicate where successive changes
of chord in the chant occur.
(2) No. Among the host of rival
systems of pointing in current use
are the Oxford Psalter, the Cathedral
Psalter, Nicholson’’s Parish Psalter
and the Australian Psalter. It
would be virtually impossible to
introduce a universal system of
pointing; apart from the manifold
difficulties associated with trans-
planting extant editions, the big
snag would be to educate con-
gregations to the point of singing
competently. At present in the
Church of England the Royal
School of Church Music conducts
periodical lecture-courses in the
correct approach to psalm-singing;
the R.S.C.M. advocates Nicholson’s
Parish Psalter. Broadly speaking,
there are two schools of thought
in psalm-pointing: one school
inclines to the older systems of
pointing, as set-out in the Cathedral
and Australian psalters; the other
leans towards the R.S.C.M. in its
choice of psalter and interpreta-
tion of pointing.
Brief Answers
D.S.M.: Unable to discover
whether Colonel von Arnim, who
took over command of the German
forces in North Africa early in
1943 after Rommel had been
injured, was a descendant of either
the German authoress Elisabeth
von Arnim (1785-1859) or of the
English novelist “Elizabeth” (1866-
1941), authoress of Elizabeth and
Her German Garden, whose first
husband was the Prussian Count
Henning August von Arnim, by
whom she had a son and three
daughters... .G.A.M.: Thank you
for sending in the words, but the
inquirer has been answered
C.S.: Write to Stinton’s Claremont
Nurseries, Geelong, Vic., or Hazle-
wood Bros. Pty., Ltd., 70 Kent
Street, Epping, N.S.W. It may
not be possible to grow the blue
water-lily in your climate without
hot-water pipes through the tank
in which they are grown. This
color is essentially tropical and is
tender in cold climates; the finest
blue is a native of North Queens-
land... .H.H.: Write to Mr. D.
Raymond, 3 Yarra Bay Road,
Yarra Bay, La Perouse, N.S.W.
S.M.P.: Contact X-Ray Sup-
plies Pty., Ltd., 102 Hunter Street,
Sydney... .C.S.: Name of the
poem is “How McDougal Topped
the Score,” and you’ll find it in
Australian Bush Ballads, edited by
Douglas Stewart and Nancy
Keesing, published by Angus and
Robertson. You should be able
to get a copy in Auckland,
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
W. 8.: There are some pleasant
moments between Mineroo and
Alladale N.R.: They’re not
quite up, but it’s good to see
someone observing Mature closely
enough to know one grass-seed
from another... .J.T.We can’t
really tell if you’re capable ot
writing a short-story till you’ve
written it. Have a shot at 0ne....
Crusader: You’re in:
A ROCKETEER
One is a rocketeer, not a racketeer
It seems —
One is thinking up instead of down
It seems —
Heaven knows what goes on up there
In the sky.
Think high,
Think up,
Bear up,
Be good.
... .8.8. W.: Not quite good enough
to publish, but it shows a nice
feeling for color. Come again....
E.L.: One in the balance, one
in the basket... .T.P.: Sometimes
you manage fresh touches, but for
the most part your prose is flooded
with a dark boarding-house gloomi-
ness L.D.: Bounds along, un-
fettered by even the most elemen-
tary rules of grammar and punctua-
tion W.N.: The murder will
have to be solved somewhere else.
G.G.: Not too keen on
“bestial sneering”... .T.R.: We
don’t dig beatniks... .A.J.: It
might pass, given a local setting.
. ...0.G.D.: Two or three degrees
short of the impossible... .H.H.:
All those long words! J.R.:
Try it on a woman’s paper
8.T.: “Hands off!” yelled Slim, “Or
I’ll clock you in the kisser.”
They’re fighting it out in the
basket D.E.: As an adventure-
story, jt lacks the expected sense
of excitement... .P.M.: Miles too
long S.C.: Try your hand at
writing paragraphs- .. .F.L.: Plain
dull, except, possibly, for the bit
about the lobsters... .1.M.: Chilly
sense of rhyme... .D.V.: Reason-
able if you’re under 30....P.N.:
You’d better salt it away for 20
years or 50....K.D.: The prawns
didn’t even interest the office cat.
. ...1.R.: Essays not for us
G.E.: Leacock did that sort of
thing much better, and he was first
to the post, t00....T.L.: No; but
there’s plenty of material for para-
graphs E.E.: A touch of interest
in the first stanza... .D.8.H.:
Too lengthy... .S.C.T.: Will you
please come and remove the
beatniks?... .FJ.: No better or
worse than most other space-
stories A.L.: Helicopter buzzed
away to port C.H.: Action
blanketed by stretches of tedious
dialogue... .8.G.: Your poem on
the penny increase in postage is,
courtesy of P.M.G., being returned.


New Recordings
Beethoven by an Orchestra
On Coronet KLC 2690
Bruno Walter conducts the
Columbia Symphony Orchestra
through the E Flat Symphony,
Op. 55 (“Eroica”), and a very
nice performance it is.
There are traces of the
Sixth Symphony, or, at least,
part of the first movement —
the intense and obvious chordal
build-up, spattered with domi-
nant harmony, is thematically
related, through a major
arpeggio, to “Pastoral” material.
In many ways the Third is
one of Beethoven’s best sym-
phonies ; he skilfully wavers
between militant martiality,
lushness of texture and penitent
string confession. Perhaps the
spirit of a braided general per-
meates the music ; as Charles
Burr reasons, Beethoven
probably saw his own image
more clearly reflected here than
in any of his other sym-
phonies. But one would like
to think that, unlike the Fifth,
it tends to the empirical rather
than to the peisonal in style.
Walter, as usual, shapes the
score faithfully yet flexibly,
and after the urgent drive of
the first movement opens a
Pandora’s-box of subdued and
immaculately phrased violin
and oboe tone in the Funeral
March—that exquisitely sor-
rowful downward theme, so
often murdered by old lady
harmonium-players.
The scherzo movement,
introduced by a whisper of
strings, bursts into a series of
pompous climaxes, the first of
which Walter handles rather
abruptly. But in the terrific
variation-form final movement
there is nothing wrong with
Walter’s treatment —he shows
how a certain amount of
flexibility in tempo, coupled
with a feeling for pastel effects
(the light and shade of weav-
ing groups of instruments, for
instance) can be utilised. This
is, all in all, quite a recording.
—-and by a Pianist
It would be a pity, in talk-
ing about recent Beethoven
releases, not to mention a
World Record Club release,
No. TT 16, with English pianist
Joseph Cooper playing three
of the best-known Beethoven
sonatas: the “Moonlight,” the
“Pathetique” and the “Appas-
sionata.”
Having mentioned it, one
should add that Cooper’s first
pianistic attribute is a scholarly
calm, and that his technique,
which is very good, is consider-
ably enhanced by sympathetic
understanding of the composer.
His “Moonlight” is a con-
noisseur’s delight—all truth and
simplicity. He fumbles an
octave leap in the last move-
ment, but. elsewhere his playing
is crisp, and nowhere more so
than in the fast part of the
“Pathetique.”
❖ ❖ ❖
Paganini Concerto
Thanks to a Parma ragman,
an art-coliector and a double-
bass player, Paganini’s Fourth
Concerto for Violin and
Orchestra was rediscovered in
1936, and thanks to Arthur
Grumiaux (soloist) and
I’Orchestre des Concerts
Lamourex, conducted by
Franco Gallini, you can hear
a first-rate version of this vir-
tuoso composition. One
mustn’t forget to mention
Philips, who have excelled in
recording it: it would be hard
to find a better example of
high-class monaural reproduc-
tion. The disk, in a yellow and
black jacket, is numbered
A 00741 R.
Virtuoso music, true; but
Paganini, at least in this con-
certo, introduces some
dramatic interest. As usual,
there are three movements —
a quick and brilliantly scored
first movement, an adagio
which breathes sentimentalism
(but never of the sickly semi-
tonal variety so esteemed by
Spohr) and a sparkling rondo,
in which Paganini takes a
theme, shows you what it’s
like and then turns it upside-
down and inside-out.
The one structural short-
coming is that there is rather
too much of a good thing;
when, for the umpteenth time,
the soloist flashes through a
two-octave descent in . the
twinkling of an eye, one
should exclaim and say,
“Brilliant!” But after a while
you come to accept the work:
as a succession of shining witti-
cisms linked by graceful
orchestral interludes - the
soloist plays a fragment of a
theme, whereupon the
orchestra exactly copies the
soloist with an air of, “We
really must see if we can do
better than Mr. Grumiaux.”
There is a vaguely unsatisfying
section in the adagio movement
which sounds for all the world
like a merry-go-round; and,
though Paganini could write
well for the soloist, he was no
orchestrator. Contrast this
concerto with, say, the Brahms:
Brahms uses his orchestra as a
perpetually changing canvas,
always blending with the vari-
colored movement of the solo
violin. With Paganini you feel
that the orchestra is tolerated,
but not tonally exploited.
Grumiaux himself lacks the
resinous precision of a Heifetz,
but he’s an absolute master
in terms of intonation. Whether
or not he is helped in this
regard by using a Strad. is be-
side the point: a man like
Grumiaux could draw fine tone
from a much poorer violin.
For sheer tonal strength try the
last movement, where the
theme goes from major to
minor and the soloist is
required to execute sweeping,
heavily bowed phrases. And
some of the virtuoso touches
(glittering scales, thirds and
sixths) just about take your
breath away. Grumiaux
fashions some of them as finely
as delicate lace.
A. W.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“Well, all I can say is, when you've seen one Old Master you've seen the LOT.”


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANNE ALICE SMITH late of 343
Ballarat Road Braybrook Victoria and
also late of 12S Canning Street Carlton
Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that HENRY
GEORGE SMITH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 30 of 1959 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 9th October 1959 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from LAURENCE WILLIAMSON & CO.,
Solicitors, of 14 Spring Street, Sydney.—•
C. A, H. HARMS Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO WILLIAM CHARLES WILLIS late
of 2 Goldie Avenue, Bondi Junction.
Take notice that Jessie Angeline Willis
has filed a petition for divorce No.
2570 of 1959 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by sth day of
November 1959 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from J. B.
Moffatt and Son Solicitors of 10*
Hunter Street Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
npHE third report of the
Cohen Committee (the
“Three Wise Men”) is a dis-
appointment generally.
Whereas the two previous
reports were positive (the first
was concerned with halting
inflation by checking invest-
ment and stopping unemploy-
ment and the second with
cautious expansion), the third
is less specific. It couldn’t be
otherwise, since we are now
enjoying the prosperity for
which we (and they) have
planned and worked. And,
geared for expansion as we
are, the crest of this prosperity
is still before us.
The committee, distinctly
sagacious, not unnaturally sees
possible trouble ahead in the
shape of wages-costs inflation.
But in seeking to find a means
of keeping prices stable it is
handicapped by the animosity
of the trade-unions, which are
so distrustful that they refuse
to acknowledge it. As a result,
the committee has had to fall
back upon the double expedi-
ent of exhortation and Socialis-
tic controls. The utter ineffi-
cacy of the one and the
memories of the other had an
immediate effect upon the City
that was as depressive as a ’flu
epidemic.
This gloom was, however,
quickly dissipated by the find-
ings of another committee —
the Radcliffe Report on the
Workings of the Monetary
System—which occupies 360
closely - printed pages, has
taken over two years to pro-
duce and has cost £20,000. The
level-headed, straight-to-the-
point conclusions are enlivened
with criticisms of the City and
its workings, which are all the
more challenging for their
having been reached unani-
mously by a committee that
was composed of a Lord of
Appeal, two economists, two
bankers (one a former civil
servant and the other also
chairman of a leading insur-
ance-company), two company-
directors and a trade-union
official.
It is interesting to compare
this result with the 1931 report
on the same subject under the
chairmanship of the present
Prime Minister, when there
were four addenda, five reser-
vations and one memorandum
of dissent.
Ordeal by Selection
Some time before next
April the three political parties
will have to select their can-
didates for the 630 seats in
Parliament.
About 1500 men and women
will be chosen. Of these, some
250 Liberals can be eliminated
as hopeless starters. The re-
maining 1250, divided equally
between the Conservatives and
the Socialists, include over 200
sitting members who will auto-
matically and confidently offer
themselves for re-election.
What of the other 400 con-
stituencies? Upwards of 60,
taking the place of retiring
members, have a good prospect
of being elected; and, per-
haps, 80 or so in the marginal
seats have a fair prospect. The
300 seats unaccounted for are
chancy, depending upon the
political climate and the incal-
culable decisions of the voters
on polling-day.
As a deterrent to the less
intrepid, this realisation is
considerable, but it is by no
means the major ordeal. The
candidate must first satisfy the
local organisation that he is
fit and proper to represent it.
Two extreme examples, one
from each party, will show
the obstinate convictions of
these bodies: Sir Frank
Soskice, previous Labor
Attorney-General, was unable
to obtain a nomination at the
1955 general election ; and,
despite constitutional issues
and anxious cajoling from
headquarters, Bournemouth
persisted in getting rid of Mr.
Nigel Nicholson, whose consci-
ence prevented him from seeing
eye-to-eye with the Govern-
ment over Suez.
“Political Quarterly” has
now produced an analysis by
age and occupation of new
candidates in 124 constitu-
encies where the last majority
was 2000 or less. This confirms
the practice of “type-selection”
which so worries the central
offices. The Conservatives, for
instance, are predominantly
public-school and board-room,
with no manual workers and
no trade-union officers.
Former candidates, asked to
comment on selection proce-
dures, were rather guarded,
but the Tory remarked upon
their snobbery (for the “right”
background and accent) and
their prejudices (e.g., against
Jews). The Socialist was dis-
turbed about the trade-unions
having a monopoly, through
their substantial donations, of
the safe seats, but could find
no alternative.
“Political Quarterly” is
equally unhappy and frustrated
at the situation, and considers
that the central offices should
have more say in the choice of
candidates. The Labor party
does, in fact, make nomina-
tions, but only in by-elections,
while the Conservative party
has very little influence, except
to veto a candidate who 'is
specifically, and by record,
unsuitable.
This is a rational but not
very practical recommenda-
tion, for those constituency
organisations that are parochial
are inclined to be the more so
when “London” tells them
what to do.
Negro Play
“A Raisin in the Sun” has
made theatrical history as the
first play by a Negro writer
to achieve production on
Broadway. It has also the
greater distinction of the New
York Critics' Circle award as
the best play of the year.
In view of the reputation of
those gentlemen for vehement
disapproval (they are known as
the “butcher-birds of Broad-
way”), this verdict is surpris-
ing. Either their collective
taste has swung abruptly from
sophistication to ingenuousness
or they have been carried
away by the uniqueness of the
event.
The London production
(Adelphi Theatre) should be
near in quality to the New
York one, since all but one of
the players are Americans and
the direction is in the hands of
Lloyd Richards (who shares
the authoress’s distinction of a
Broadway triumph at the first
attempt). Nevertheless, the
disappointment at the play’s
failure to impress the softer-
hearted London critics is
understandable.
It is prolific but immature,
both in concept and direction.
The authoress, Lorraine Hans-
berry, is young (29) and
undeniably a natural play-
wright. Apparently influenced
by Arthur Miller, her facility
for incident, characterisation
and construction is remark-
able, but she overloads. And
the director, instead of simpli-
fying the various lines, embel-
lishes them by producer’s
tricks. The result is so old-
fashioned and musty as to
invoke memories of Stanley
Houghton and Israel Zangwill,
yet, at the same time, funda-
mental in dramatic values.
Briefly, the plot deals with
inheritance. A Negro family
of three generations is about to
receive $lO,OOO insurance-
money. The son (chauffeur)
wants to invest the money in
a liquor business, but the
mother (coal-black mammy) is
God-fearing and won’t yield.
Living in squalor, she puts
down $3500 as deposit on a
house in a quarter which
exerts a subtle bar against
Negroes. She ill-advisedly
gives her son the balance with
specific instructions as to its
disposal. He disobeys, losing
the lot to an absconding
“partner.” Faced with the
opportunity of cutting their
losses when a representative of
the white residents offers to
buy them out, racial pride
invests the mother, and the
play ends with the family
moving, resolutely but quixo-
tically, into the new house.
Yet the color element, so
essential to the plot, seems less
important than the undertones
and minor conflicts. The
“Americanism” of the second
generation quite overrides the
pigment of their skins. Walter,
the- son, is spoiled, daydream-
ing, self-pitying and weak,
another of Willie Loman’s
sons. His wife, Ruth, is a
pitiable drudge whose womanly
virtues and aspirations have
become crushed through bad
living conditions. And, of
tougher mettle though innate
loyalty, his young sister,
Beneatha, is the perennial
student.
There are two, perhaps
three, distinct plays in this
over-abundant profusion. Yet,
with modern plays so often
thin to emptiness, this is a
good fault and one that is well-
compensated by dramatic
interest.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description,
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Sydney Horses
New Zealander Up And
Coming—winner of 16 races,
three of them in as many
starts in Sydney is all the
rage for the A.J.C. Epsom
Handicap following his com-
fortable win in the Warwick
Stakes at the Farm last Satur-
day. Though bookmakers
eased his price from 11 to Bon
to 5 to 4 against, Up And
Coming made the fairly good
opposition look easy. Sell-
wood had him handy ail the
way, and rode him home
hands and heels.
Time for the Warwick
Stakes —1.24.1 —was only a
tenth of a second outside
Tarien’s race record, made in
1953. The following year
Tarien won again in
El Khobar also clocked 1.24.1
in 1956, so Up And Coming’s
time was right up to the top
standard. Sellwood has now
won the Stakes four times, his
previous successes being on
El Khobar, Prince Cortauld
and The Groom.
Nobody watching the War-
wick Stakes missed the bril-
liant finishing burst by
another New Zealander, Super-
tax, having his first start in
Australia, and his first run for
three months. He dead-heated
for second with Perouse, and
both horses should soon ring-
up No. 1. Supertax, who’s
expected to go soon to Mel-
bourne, was on the big side.
There is plenty of him, and
he’ll be well up to the tidy
weights he’s been allotted in
the main events of the spring.
Winner of 10 races in N.Z.
at from five to 11 furlongs,
he’s a five-year-old horse by
Tulloch’s sire, Khorassan
(imp.), who in the 1957-58
season sired the winners of
£Bl,OOO in stakes.
• • • •
The Metropolitan (October
5) looks more open than the
Epsom, but, for many, two
horses stand out —Valerius and
Bardshah—and they’ve been
coupled extensively with Up
And Coming for the big spring
double.
-» •’ • •
Noble Empire, who won the
Warwick Farm Spring Cup,
and Royal Jester, a 100-to-l
shot and a tailender in the
Wallacia Handicap on Satur-
day, have also come into the
Metrop. picture. Royal
Jester, a New Zealand middle-
distance stayer with wins at
Sydney meetings, carried 10.13
(Welter conditions) at the
Farm. It was his first run for
some time, and the six-
furlongs was too short. Noble
Empire beat a moderate batch
in the mile-and-a-half Spring
Cup carrying 7.13 ; he drops
to 7.4 in the Metrop. He’s by
“Those beggars shrink human heads !"
Royal Empire (imp.), sire of
stayers, from Jehane (imp.) by
Legend of France from
Trimeter by Trimdon, and is
a half-brother to Sailor’s
Guide.
Darby Mun r o turned
Beechley out 100 per cent, for
the opening event at the Farm,
the First Novice, and as he
stepped round the mounting-
enclosure the three-year-old
created much favorable
comment. He gave W. Camer
one of the easiest rides of his
career and the stable one of
its best wins. An easy
galloper, Beechley could be a
classics contender.
The A.J.C. tries to foster
stayers, but a line-up of six
moderates in a race over 11
furlongs for the restricted
Encourage Handicap at the
Farm wasn’t exactly encourag-
ing. The short-priced favorite,
Revived, wasn’t well ridden by
apprentice C; Pearson, who
wanted to win the race before
nominations closed. His tactics
made the race to order for
Consider, patiently but cleverly
ridden by W. Camer. In the
final half-furlong Turkis Don
raised another effort, and just
missed.
The East Hills Handicap for
three-year-olds at Warwick
Farm didn’t throw much light
on Derby chances. However,
French Descent won his third
successive race, and should he
continue the run in the Rose-
hill Guineas he would come
right into the Derby spotlight.
Trainer Gordon Brown has
won many big races, and
knows what’s required for the
classic. Morning Star, having
his first start since early May,
will be better for the run.
Tudor House —just out of
the restricted ranks, and
narrow winner of the Warwick
Farm Wallacia Welter —has
been mentioned as an Epsom
chance, but •Sellwood had to
ride him hard all the time to
stall-off Merry Amber not
altogether an Epsom perform-
ance. It was Merry Amber’s
best run for some time, and he
could soon win.
Voyage—a four-year-old by
Damtar (Fr.) from Tourist,
an unraced Foxbridge (imp.)
mare —was one of the unlucky
runners at Warwick Farm.
She was confidently supported
from 14 to 1 to 7’s for the
Second Novice, and backers
might have collected had she
not been blocked when going
for a final rails-run about a
furlong from the winning-
line. As it was, she finished
third to Royal Mail and Sun
Idol. She should soon win
her first race in Sydney.
V • *
A.J.C. vice-chairman Mr.
Justice Dovey and committee-
man Dr. T. R. Street race the
three-year-old filly Scythian,
winner of the midweek First
Canterbury Park Maiden over
9+ furlongs in dashing style.
The filly is by Delville Wood
(imp.) from Amazonian (imp.)
by Devonian from Argentina
by Phalaris and is a half-sister
to Waterford, a Sydney and
Brisbane winner. Delargo,
raced by Mrs. F. J. Miller, and
winner of the Second Maiden,
is also a Delville Wood.
* * *
For the Sydney Turf Club’s
Canterbury Guineas, main
event on next Saturday’s pro-
gramme, all the best three-
year-olds were nominated.
Over the years the race hasn’t
been of much value as a
classics’ guide, though Prince
Morvi (1953) and. Moorland
(1943) won both it and the
A.J.C. Derby. Next Satur-
day’s line-up is expected to
include Martello Towers, right
at peak form, Travel Boy and
the good filly Spacewise, and
all could figure in the prize-
money.
* * *
They’re twilighting again.
Instead of the meeting set-
down for October 28 at
Warwick Farm there’s to be
a twilighter at Randwick on
November 25, with another on
December 9.
* * *
At Moonee Valley
There was a flurry to lift
the four-year-old N.Z. mare
Routine in Cups discussions
after the daughter of Ruthless
and Faultina had won the first
heat of the Chesterfield Handi-
cap at the Valley. Now under
Fred Hoysted’s skilled care, she
had not raced since her fourth
(with Up And Coming third) in
the Trentham (N.Z.) St. Leger
last March. She carried 9.0,
and has only 7.13 in the Caul-
field Cup and 31b. less in the
Melbourne Cup. Bill William-
son rode Routine, and it was by
way of a first-up win for him,
too —his first ride since return-
ing from a short but highly


CARRY THE
BURDEN
m
■
Established ISOS in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
tf.S.IV. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
A'cvv Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
successful working-holiday in
Malaya.
The speedy three-year-old
Hyleena, who won a string of
races last summer, gave notice
that she is going to be just as
good this time up. Having her
first start since February in the
second heat of the Chesterfield,
she showed great dash to lead
from the barrier to within a
few strides of the line, where the
colt Unquenchable pushed his
head in front. Hyleena will
be much improved by the run.
The winner is a lightly-raced
colt by Helios from the Hostile
mare Spitfire, who won the
1950 Oakleigh Plate. He’s par-
tial to the Valley track, where
he notched his only other win
last January. The lad on Un-
quenchable, R. Drury, scored
his first city win.
There is no track where
“horses for courses” is more
applicable than Moonee Valley.
The five-year-old Comic Court
gelding Gazette has won only
three city races, all over the
13-furlong Valley course.
The third of them was the
Chairman’s Handicap on Satur-
day, and, even allowing for the
weakness of the opposition,
Gazette showed that this could
be his best year by careering
right away to win as he liked.
Gazette completed a hat-trick
for Fred Hoysted, who, as well
as with him and Routine, won
with the steeplechaser Main
Mast.
Star Pattern, a chestnut filly
by Tauber from Blue Ger-
anium, won the Waratah Han-
dicap very impressively, making
a strong run from well back
at the half-mile. Her sire,
Tauber, is by Chanteur 11, who
raced successfully over dis-
tances in France and England,
and who was leading sire in
England in 1953.
[
Imported Orgoglio, whose
stock did so well last year in
their first season, is the sire of
the promising Fiero, winner of
the mile Belhaven Handicap for
colts and geldings. Fiero was
not of much account as a two-
year-old, but since the start of
the new racing-year he has
shown excellent form. There
are more wins ahead.
There’s not a more honest
galloper racing in Melbourne
than Smokey Jane, who
cantered home in the W. P.
Mein Welter. In fact, there
was no winner at the Valley
more impressive than this four-
year-old 1 mare by Smokey
Eyes from Bolero. She has
won at up to 10 furlongs, and
though the Smokey Eyes stock
are not rated as stayers
(Smokey Eyes himself was a
sprinter), she gives every indi-
cation of getting at least a
mile-and-a-half. She could be
very good this spring.
* * *
Next Saturday is Memsie
Stakes day at Caulfield, and
the nine-furlongs w.-f.-a. race
should indicate whether Vic-
toria’s best w.-f.-a. galloper,
Lord, is as good as ever. On
his home-track he should take
the Memsie, despite the strong
field likely. There’ll also be
great interest in the form of
Sir Blink and Chicola, the
Victorian gallopers most
prominent on the Cups’ charts.
* * m
Unless he encounters com-
bined C.P. and A.L.P. opposi-
tion, Premier Bolte is going
to give Victoria an off-course
tote. In the proposed scheme
all betting must be made
against a pre-lodged credit.
Victoria’s s.-p. book's reckon
this will keep them in busi-
ness, to which Bolte retorts
that if necessary he will make
even a first offence for s.-p.
betting carry a jail term, and,
more drastic still, make it an
offence to lodge a bet with a
snide operator.
* * *
“Toter”: No doubt they’ll
be on as good a thing in Vic-
toria with legalised off-course
betting as the New Zealand
Government has been. Latest
report of the N.Z. Totalisator
Board shows that investments
last year ran to £23,819,644 —
more than £1,000,000 above
that for the previous year.
Dividends to the public
represented 82 per cent, of
the investments, and since its
introduction the board has
contributed over £11,000,000
to Government revenue. There
is bound to be strong oppo-
sition to legalised off-course
betting in N.S.W., but it’s a
lay-down cert, that it would
be a success.
• * •
The Trots
Bank Account continued
trainer-driver L. Moulds’s run
of success by taking the
Trotters’ Handicap at Harold
Park on Saturday night in a
sound win from the favorite,
Shellgrit, and Single Raider.
N.Z. pacer Guiseppe completed
the double for trainer Max
Allen when he won the Harold
Park Handicap from Kildare
Star and Delvyn Ringer ; Allen
had previously won the Parkes
Handicap with Breezaire. Start-
ing favorite, Guiseppe was
slowly away and raced one wide
for most of the trip. In the
Orange Handicap the favorite,
Royal Guest, survived a pro-
test by R. Sherwood, driver of
Cochise. There was a false
start and the horses were re-
called. Royal Guest first
away, as he had been in the
false start —lost the lead early,
but was always handy, and
went on to win comfortably.
Chasfield, badly away, did well
to hang-on for third money.
* In the First Qualifying Stakes,
Trentalene was sensationally
backed to start favorite at
9 to 4, but the mare Kumar
proved too good on the night.
♦ * •
Olympic Swimmers
“Insider”: When the Aus-
tralian swimmers being pre-
pared for the 1956 Olympics
went into five-months’ train-
ing costing thousands of pounds
the rest of the Olympic world
put on a considerable show of
indignation.
Charges that Australia’s
swimmers breached the spirit
of amateur sport, and were
almost professionals, got to
the International Olympic
Committee, which issued warn-
ings that amateurism would
be best served if there was
a restriction on the length of
training. It suggested that
chosen competitors should not
leave their employment or
school until about a month
before the Games started.
The Australian Amateur
Swimming Union noted the
references, and blithely went
on with its training, and Aus-
tralia swept the Olympic Pool.
It proposes to carry through a
similar, but more restricted,
training-scheme before the
Australian team flies to Rome’s
Olympics next August. The
cost of sending a squad of
about 20 swimmers to train in
Townsville (Q.), some several
thousand pounds, will be re-
couped by special carnivals.
The refusal to fall into line
with the International Olympic
Committee’s wishes it can’t
direct in this matter —has now
resulted in other nations decid-
ing to follow the Australian
example. America proposes to
have all its Olympic team
undergo a month’s pre-
departure training, at enormous
cost. And now Britain, which
led the objection to the Aus-
tralian training-method, has
decided to go further than
Australia. Next year it will
select a swimming-team, send


Missing Friends
TO LEN LESLIE PURDY and to NORMA
MANSBRIDGE both of Address Un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that MARIA
TERESA PURDY has commenced an action
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for dissolution of her marriage with
you LEN LESLIE PURDY on the grounds
of your desertion and your adultery with
you NORMA MANSBRIDGE and seeks
the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 27 of the Matrimonial
Causes and Personal Status Code 1948-
1957 If you or either of you desire
to defend such proceedings you must file
your Statement of Defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within 40 clear days from the date of
this publication In default of your so
doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce Judgment and
make Orders against you in your
absence.—DATED this 19th day of
August, 1959.—G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.
UNMACK & UNMACK, of 12 Howard
Street, Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
TO MARY EMILY MOFFAT or
THOMAS or McDONALD.—Any person
claiming to be or on behalf of the
abovenamed a sister of WILLIAM JOHN
WALTER THOMAS deceased should
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE FOR VICTORIA, of 601 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, before the
30th day of October, 1959, after which
date the estate of the said deceased will
be distributed as if the said Mary
Emily Moffat had predeceased the said
deceased without issue.—G. R. TAYLOR,
LL.B., Barrister and Solicitor, 1004
Doncaster Road, Doncaster East.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON X
O'SULLIVAN
a u™ o
•2»s
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE.
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
it to Europe for matches, bring
teams from Europe to race
against its swimmers, and when
that programme is over it will
place the swimmers in a “camp”
for one month.
Seems the spirit of amateur-
ism is observed while it suits.
♦ * *
Other Sports
At Christchurch, before
60,000, N.Z. beat the British
Isles 22-8 in the third Rugby
Union Test, after leading
14-8 at half-time. The home
side scored four tries to one.
N.Z. has now won the first
three Tests, with one to go.
Sydney Rugby Union, North
eliminated St. George 20-14,
after leading 17-3 at half-time
and 20-3 early in the second
half. St. George fought back,
but left their run a little late.
* * *
The V.F.L. “final four” are
the four as constituted after
the second-last round —Mel-
bourne (which beat South on
Saturday 10.16-8.13), Carlton,
Collingwood and Essendon.
Carlton kept its grip on second
possie by eliminating somewhat-
unlucky North 12.14-8.11.
(The Kangaroos, hopping along
very smartly for a start, won
their first six games—their
first loss was to Carlton —but,
losing key players through
injury for crucial games,
together with the severely-felt
loss of eight-weeks-suspended
ruck ma n Teasdale, they
slumped badly later.) With
North’s defeat, all Essendon
had to do to hang on to fourth
place was to defeat Footscray,
which it did in smashing
fashion, 17.15-10.14, while
Collingwood chalked-up its
10th successive win in crush-
ing Geelong 17.19-5.8. As
Essendon won, Fitzroy’s
20.12-13.12 trouncing of St.
Kilda was of no avail. On
Saturday, ’Wood v. Essendon.
* * *
“Veryl”: This year’s cross-
Channel swim—in the roughest
of seas —was won by a 28-
year-old Argentinian, Alfredo
Camarero, in just on llhrs.
50min. A Dutchman was
second, and a Portuguese
third. Incidentally, the last;
two Channel swims (1957 and
1958) were both won by a
woman, Danish ex-Olympian
Greta Andersen.
* * *
“Insider”: We can now
believe in the golfing impos-
sible —thanks to “Papwa”
Sewgloam Sewsunker. Every-
thing about him —his name, his
game—is impossible. Yet he
attracted tremendous interest
when he played in this year’s
British Open. “Papwa,” 30,
lives in a South African
Indian shanty-town colony in
Durban; he caddies, can
neither read nor write, and
taught himself the game with
five clubs. He was sent to
the British Open by a wealthy
South African businessman
who was amazed at his skill.
But it wasn’t until Sewsunker
appeared at Muirfield that the
world saw a “cross-handed”
golfer. He had the right-
handed stance, but he held the
club like a left-hander, with
the right hand at the top of
the shaft. Seems nothing’s
impossible these days.
* * *
“M’Lou”: Top marks to
Lester Marks, who at 38 has
played over 250 games for
Dimboola (Vic.) football-clubs
in the major district League,
and has never once been
spoken to by an umpire.
* * *
“Recorder”: One outstand-
ing Australian sportsman who
hasn’t anything like the same
honor in his own country as
he has abroad is 22-year-old
sculler Stuart Mackenzie. In
Europe he’s recognised as the
world’s best sculler. He
certainly has earned that repu-
tation—the only sculler to
have held the Australian, New
Zealand, Henley Diamond
Sculls, Belgian and European
championships in the one year.
He has won the Henley Dia-
mond Sculls three times, an un-
equalled feat. His participat-
ing in this year’s European
championships shows his great
courage—it was against all
medical advice. He underwent
an operation in Yugoslavia on
July 18 for an ulcer, and was
ordered to rest from sculling
until the end of the year.
* * *
“Mitron”: Even if some
tries in Rugby Union are
against the run of play (B.
12/8/’59), then all due credit
to the team under pressure for
fighting back. Still, most tries
result from teamwork, and,
after all, the success of a foot-
ball-team should be dependent
more on teamwork than on the
specialised goalkicking ability
of one player. To my way of
thinking, the South African
proposal to increase the value
of a penalty-goal to four
points is as silly as the “kick-
out-on-the-full” rule, which
ruins the game from the spec-
tators’ point of view.
* * «
The now habitual Australia-
U.S. Davis Cup final was close
all the way—two apiece, and
with the deciding last tussle
due to be continued as the
printing-press grabbed this
week’s Bulletin and started
rolling it out. So, comment
next week.
* * *
“Cunedda”: N.S.W. Rugby
Union president Arnold Tatt-
ered has suggested that, to
improve Rugby Union
standards, Australia and N.Z.
should play against each other
more - often, even down to
schoolboy level. Good idea ;
and surprising that matches
between Australian and N.Z.
teams of schoolboys have not
been in vogue for years past.
Back in the 1900’s a team
from Te Aute Maori College
visited N.S.W. and played
matches against Fort Street,
Newington, St. Joseph’s, Com-
bined Bathurst Schools, Com-
bined G.P.S. and University.
The team impressed strongly,
and won its games, but this
pioneer visit has never been
repeated.
* * *
“Bob Ray”: Brisbane's
Western Suburbs all-round
cricketer Ray Hughson lately
notched a century at another
sport —Australian Rules. For
Western Districts he brought
his tally to 105 goals, kicked
in 19 games this season. Hugh-
son represented Queensland
at the 1958 centenary carnival
at Melbourne. At cricket he
is a left-hand forcing batsman
and right-hand spin-bowler.
* * *
“Zorok”: Young Sydney
southpaw featherweight-cwm-
lightweight David Floyd lately
fought at Sydney Stadium on
three successive Monday nights,
and won each scrap easily. So
far, the 19-year-old Floyd has
won his eight pro. fights, only
two of which have gone the
distance. Terrifically fast, with
an excellent defence, he’s
tipped to go places.
* * *
“Gart”: On the Service
l2/8/’59) it was stated
that heavyweight Bill Squires
defeated Tim Murphy for the
Australian title in 1906 in the
Cyclorama Building, Mel-
bourne. Wrong. The fight took
place at the Melbourne Exhibi-
tion Building, which John Wren
had hired for the occasion. I
was there among the spectators.
* * *
Some recent stoush—At San
Francisco Gene Fullmer, former
world middleweight champion,
regained the title by stopping
Carmen Basilio in the 14th round.
(Robinson won the title from
Basilio in March, 1958, but has not
defended it, and his recognition was
withdrawn.) In Melbourne, former
Australian lightweight champ.
George Bracken k.o.’d in the fifth
round former Empire welterweight
champ. Johnny van Rensburg. In
Brisbane, Australian featherweight
champion Wal Taylor easily out-
pointed English featherweight
Johnny Floward.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND. Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Brandies in nil States Agencies in all Country Centres
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WAITING FOR KHRUSHCHEV
T'Yescribing the “turbulent
and mixed emotions” with
which Americans await Mr.
Khrushchev’s visit to their
country this month, the Wash-
ington correspondent of Lon-
don “Economist” notes that
“the most generous of
America’s national beliefs, that
strangers can be disarmed by
kindness, has collided head-on
with the most puritan, which
is that what is un-American is
also immoral.
“Mr. Khrushchev, maybe the
most un-American man in the
world, will certainly not lack
for hospitality. Like the early
settlers, he is to see how the
natives grow maize; Mr.
Cyrus Eaton, the Pocahontas
of Cleveland, will continue his
efforts to unite East and West
in the holy bonds of com-
mercial intercourse ; and Mr.
Van Cliburn, the pianist, will
show the visitor that the
bubbling of oil-wells is not the
only music for Texan ears. But
yet the flood of invitations from
chambers of commerce, mayors
and industrial tycoons come
from people whose next-door
neighbors have announced that
Mr. Khrushchev’s visit is a
‘national disgrace’ and an
‘obscene spectacle,’ and have
refused to bloody their hands
by touching his.”
Thus, the same writer con-
tinues, “Mr. Khrushchev may
find his reception ranging be-
wilderingly from hot to cold ;
the Americans, unlike the
British in 1956, may be unable
to find the tap marked ‘tepid.’
“However, if the public is
confused about the way to greet
him, so are many of the ex-
perts. One of the favorite
theories about Mr. Khrush-
chev's tour is that it will punc-
ture some of his misconcep-
tions about the United States.
But which misconception is the
first for the pin? There are
people who want to convince
him above all of the Americans’
armed might and of their
determination to use it rather
than abandon Berlin. Mr.
Khrushchev, through the Soviet
Ambassador, has shyly de-
clined the offer to show him
—London “Daily Express.”
THE BIG FIVE.
round a bomber-base ; but it
may not be beyond the
ingenuity of the Strategic Air
Command to arrange for a
couple of hundred B-47s to
rumble awfully over his head
somewhere.
“Thd trouble with demon-
strations of this kind is that
they are designed to leave Mr.
Khrushchev with quite a
different impression from the
one desired by the other school
of misconception - removers.
These want to convince him
that America is really the most
amiable and pacific of nations.
It is hard to approach the pale-
face with both tomahawk and
peace-pipe; those who com-
plain that Mr. Khrushchev him-
self is always alternating be-
tween threats and blandish-
ments ought to know how con-
fusing it is.
“In fact, there is reason to
think that President Eisen-
hower issued his invitation with
something much less dramatic
in mind. Apparently he does
not hope that Mr. Khrushchev
will go home with any radi-
cally revised views about how
terrible or how wonderful
America is; but simply that,
in the course of his visit, he
can be persuaded to make
some minor change in his posi-
tion on Berlin which will allow
the jammed diplomatic
machinery to get moving again.
“Indeed, it is difficult to
imagine what else the President
could have intended. He would
hardly have brought Mr.
Khrushchev to the United
States, with all the strain this
imposes on the American
nervous-system, merely in
order to put off the day of
reckoning over Berlin by a
month or two. But he cannot
have meant actually to resolve
the crisis at this stage or by
this means. He has said that he
is not going to negotiate with
Mr. Khrushchev ; and he is a
plain man, without President
Roosevelt’s subtle notions of
what ‘negotiation’ does (and
does not) include.
“Over dinner with some
American journalists Mr.
Eisenhower hinted that his
meeting with Mr. Khrushchev
was to be regarded principally
as a step towards a full summit
conference. The State Depart-
ment has been saying privately
for some time that it considers
that a meeting between the
heads of Government of the
Big Four is inevitable. Thus
the private invitation to Mr:
Khrushchev looks remarkably
like a device for disentangling
the President from his demand
for ‘progress’ before he will
go on to the ‘true summit.’
“This was a demand which
the Secretary of State was not
quite able to satisfy at Geneva,
but he got very near. The State
Department would probably be
satisfied if the Russians were to
repeat their offer to extend the
West’s rights in Berlin without
making the extension condi-
tional upon whether or not any
progress is made towards re-
unification. The thought of an
investigatory holiday in
America may be attractive
enough for Mr. Khrushchev
to find the necessary conces-
sion.”
Outlook for Wool
PJrom the Bradford “Wool
Record”:
“For some months now ths
figures for wool-consumption
throughout the large wool-
consuming areas of the world
have been most encouraging—
and, for woolmen who have
seen this sort of thing before
many times, a little frightening.
“The publication of the
June returns by the Wool
Industry Bureau of Statistics
showed that wool-consumption
in the U.K. during the first
half of the present year was
263.65-million lb. (clean). This
is one of the highest totals
reached since the end of the
war, and is 15 per cent, more
than the January-June total
for 1958, and just slightly


eaM:
m
k\
i
&
m
mm
***
1
«juy»T s
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
IDEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANYI
higher than the 1957 equivalent
figure.
“It is customary for the
wool industry to show only
measured satisfaction when-
ever world wool-consumption
increases, and the reason for
this cautious approach is well
founded, not merely because
the industry has seen a number
—“Le Canard Enchaine” ( France ).
“WELL, HERE WE ARE AT
THE SUMMIT .”
of slumps quickly follow
periods of buoyancy, but also
because it is sometimes over-
looked that world population
has risen considerably since the
end of the war and, indeed,
during the whole of the present
century.
“It follows that a steady in-
crease in world wool-consump-
tion is, in itself, • ‘nothing to
write home about.’ Anything
less would represent a decline
in per capita consumption. But
there is little need to remind the
wool industry of these things. In
times like the present it always
keeps a firm control on any
tendency to indulge in what
may prove to be premature
expressions of joy.
“Even so, it is a poor heart
that never rejoices, and the
wool industry has a right to
take a certain satisfaction from
the marked inclination of the
United States to buy and use
more wool. It is not long since
there visited the ‘Wool Record’
office a man with a high execu-
tive position who does more
travelling in a year than many
people do in a lifetime. He
had been particularly struck by
the way that lightweight non-
wool suits worn by many
Americans failed to pass the
‘reclining-in-an-aircraft’ test.
When their wearers rose to
stretch their legs, he said, it was
plain to everybody that their
suits had assumed a series of
highly inelegant thermo-set
creases of the sort one never
sees in fashion advertisements.
“It would be idle to deny
that ‘easy care’ has much
attraction ; but it would be
equally idle to deny that in
practice it has often revealed
itself as more like ‘easy care-
lessness.’ But then —as a
speaker on the radio said the
other day one can hardly
expect manufacturers to label
their products ‘nearly non-iron’
or ‘almost drip-dry.’ ”
U.N. Watches
TThe United Nations is still
interested in the fate of
Hungary. London “Econo-
mist” reports that last
December the General
Assembly appointed Sir Leslie
Munro, former Assembly
president, “to hold a watching
brief over developments
there”:
“Like Prince Wan of Siam,
who was given a broadly
similar assignment in 1957, he
has been refused permission
to enter the country. All he
can do is visit the Hungarian
refugee-camps in Austria, glean
what information he can about
conditions in Hungary—and
a g es * ure - .
. f e ma u
ing, for all that there may be
m f le to show for it * o ne
canno t estimate how much the
Kadar regime is influenced by
world opinion. But it is prob-
ably only a little less anxious
to acquire respectability in the
eyes of the outside world than


STOP BREAKING
YOUR HEART
Is it possible for your emotions
virtually to break your heart?
This article in September
Reader’s Digest reviews mount-
ing medical evidence connect-
ing emotional stress with
heart attacks . . . gives tips
on how to lead a longer, less
frantic life.
September Reader’s Digest
brings you 34 great articles,
including Book Condensation: On
Being a Real Person, A Stranger
in the Car, Adventure of Being
Human, How Nuclear Blasts Can
be Used for Peace, A Child’s
Garden of Manners, The Stanleys
and their Amazing Steamer.
On sale NOW at all news-
agents and bookstalls. Get
your copy today. Only 2/-.
to acquire the genuine accept-
ance of those whom it rules.
“A degree of normality—at
least by East European stan-
dards —does seem to be return-
ing to Hungary, and this is to
be welcomed for the sake of
the Hungarians. But the
regime still holds on to the
weapons of repression.
“Last month, for instance,
the appeals were heard of
about 40 young people
against their conviction as
‘counter - revolutionaries’ in
the secret trial [held last April].
Eight of the 10 death-sentences
were upheld, two were com-
muted to life-imprisonment
and most of the other prison-
sentences were confirmed. The
Hungarian Government has
rejected an appeal by the
international PEN congress
that it should release Hun-
garian writers imprisoned as
‘counter-revolutionaries,’ par-
ticularly Julius Hay and Tibor
Dery, who is reported to be in
very bad health.
“Such incidents amply justify
Sir Leslie Munro’s mission;
and so long as the Kadar
regime allows its actions to
be ruled by memories of 1956
it can hardly blame the outside
world for being guided by
them, too.”
African Issues
Tn London “Time and Tide”
Elspeth Huxley notes that
there is a movement on foot
to make British colonial policy
in East and Central Africa a
major issue in the coming U.K.
general election. The Socialists,
she writes, “have been trying
to create an impression that
Tory policy is something
reactionary, hidebound and
—London “News Chronicle.”
KEEPING THEM ON THE BOIL.
oppressive,” whereas, in fact,
“no major differences in policy
separate the two parties”:
“The difference, in so far as
there is one, is that of pace, not
of direction. It is very largely
the difference between those
with the responsibility of
making things work and those
without.
“An obvious example is
that of the Federation of
Rhodesia and Nyasaland. To
hear some people talk, you
would think it had been in-
vented by the devil to grind
into pulp the faces of helpless
Africans. In fact, of course,
federation was backed and
supported by the Labor Gov-
ernment when in power for the
same reasons that it is now
supported by the Tories: be-
cause it appears to be the only
practical way of sharing-out
such economic wealth as
Central Africa possesses and of
creating more, so as to benefit
the poorer members, notably
the Africans of Nyasaland.”
In the making of election-
capital Miss Huxley continues,
“the real issues have virtually
disappeared”:
“They are these: first, are
Africans to govern themselves?
That has been agreed long ago.
Under a Tory regime, Ghana
has reached the goal, and
Nigeria will do so next year.
There is no country now that
is not well on the road towards
self-determination.
“Where, then, is the issue?
The kind of government? That
has been settled, too. It is to
follow our pattern of Parlia-
mentary democracy. With both
parties, this is an article of
faith: the modem gospel,
preached to its future bene-
ficiaries by a large official
corps of missionaries.
“Here we strike a difficulty.
No one has found a formula to
apply our kind of democracy
to a multi-racial country with-
out obliterating, politically,
the racial minorities. This is
awkward, not because of tender
feelings towards the minorities,
but because in East and Central
Africa it is the minorities,
Asian and European, who have
created the economic sinews of
the territories. Pull the sinews
and you leave a pretty crippled
animal.
“These minorities want safe-
guards against being swamped
by an enfranchised flood of
Africans quite without experi-
ence of administration, and
without the trained manpower
to run any branch of these
things. The Tories would like
to provide such safeguards,
partly because the minorities
(especially in the Federation)
will kick hard if they don't
get them, but partly also be-
cause the economies of the
countries concerned would go
to pot if the minorities were to
withdraw their skill and capital,
or to be driven away. That
would either leave these parts
of Africa wide open for hostile
influences to penetrate or land
Britain with a very heavy bill
to keep them on the dole.
“Life is full of ironies and
one of them is that it is the
Tories who are striving to
establish and entrench demo-
cracy, while the Socialists are
doing all they can to ensure
that it will not survive. If
there is one thing as plain as
the nose on the face of
General de Gaulle it is that
immediate self-rule with no
safeguards for minorities, with
universal suffrage and with the
present nationalist leadership
would quickly finish-off any
hope of our kind of democracy
in any African country.”
Dragnet Digest
Edward Crankshaw, in Lon-
don “Observer” : “Plodding
through the Soviet and the
Western press after a pleasant
rest from both, I was struck by
two things. First that it is we,
not the Russians, who have
built Mr. Khrushchev up into
a garrulous father-figure, upon
whose every word we hang.
It is here in the West that he
hogs the headlines with his
lightest word; the Russians
take him in their stride.
“This is partly an affair of
the press, but only partly.
Western statesmen, by exalting
the so-called summit into a
latter-day Mount Sinai, have
done more, than anybody else
to turn Mr. Khrushchev into
a sort of oracle of the steppe:
only Mr. Macmillan, by treat-
ing him as one head of a Great
Power among others, seems
able to cut him down to size.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “After
the Devlin report can the [U.K.]
Government indefinitely keep
the Nyasaland Congress de-
tainees untried and under lock
and key? A judge, working
with distinguished colleagues,
has found that the charges on
which the detention of many
of these men were sustained
are not proved. The Nyasa-
land ers will not believe that
they can be justly held. Others
must ask why, if they must be


Missing Friend
ALEATIIEA VIVIAN BONI F AC E,
maiden name ALEATHEA VIVIAN
CULLEN once of Kiama, New Squth
Wales, her descendants or personal rep-
resentatives. See Notice advertised in
the issue of this paper of the 19th
August, 1959, for persons claiming to be
entitled according to the Statutes for the
Distribution of Intestate Estates to the
Estate of HERBERT FORTUNE BONI-
FACE, deceased, formerly of Flemington
and once of Kiama.—E. N. DAWES,
Master in Equity, Supreme Court of
New South Wales.
I XL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:— -
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
TIMBER MERCHANTS
SAW MILLERS
held, they cannot all be fairly
tried.
“Again the key position is
held by Dr. Banda himself. If
he were now returned to
Nyasaland, it would become
almost intolerable for the
Government and certainly for
the Governor; if he were
brought to Britain and freed,
so that he might be declared a
prohibited immigrant, everyone
would feel that it was a dirty
trick. Obviously some sort of
political life has got to be
restarted in Nyasaland;
obviously, too, the frank find-
ings of the Devlin commission
have made it extraordinarily
difficult to restart it. Yet the
longer the Government shrinks
from starting the process of
release, the louder will become
the demand for ‘justice, based
on the findings of a British
judge.’ ”
* * •
Walter Lippmann, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “There is
no great mystery about the
significance of the Eisenhower-
Khrushchev visits. They are a
recognition of the fundamental
fact of the world today that the
issue of peace or war will be
decided in Moscow and in
Washington. Only the U.S.S.R.
and U.S.A. can wage a nuclear
war, and they alone, therefore,
can make the ultimate decisions
which mean peace or war. They
cannot delegate to their allies
the ultimate decision, and,
whatever the appearances they
maintain, this underlying
reality will prevail.
“These are the facts of life
in the middle of the 20th
century. Because of them,
whenever the cold war reaches
a point of irreconcilable con-
flict, the two Powers have to
find a way around it. That is
what they did at Geneva in
1955, when nothing was settled
except that for four years there
was in fact a standstill about
Germany. That, presumably, is
what they will do once again
in 1959. Most probably no
legal settlement will be agreed
to. But a way may .well be
found to avoid a showdown
over Berlin.
“If a way is found, it will be
because Moscow and Washing
ton have decided that they do
not intend to have a world war
about Berlin.”
* * *
Toronto ( Canada ) “Globe
and Mail": “Relations between
India and China, already
strained by events in Tibet, are
bound to be further chilled by
the Kerala crisis. India is find-
ing it more and more difficult
to remain resolutely neutral
in the cold war.
“In these circumstances it is
the duty of the Western
nations to come to India’s aid
with greater moral and
financial support. Aid from
Communist countries, particu-
larly the Soviet Union, has been
increasing rapidly ; it would be
to the great benefit of the West
to take advantage of the present
disenchantment with Com-
munism within India and
demonstrate to the Indian
people what free and wealthy
nations can accomplish in the
way of helping underdeveloped
countries.”
* * *
A special correspondent of
London “Economist” : “Some
time late this year the [U.K.]
Government may announce
that it has chosen a new
launching - site for space-
vehicles. Unlike those at
Cape Canaveral, in Florida,
and at Camp Vandenberg, in
California, it will be some-
where on or near the Equator.
Geographical, astronautical
and geopolitical considerations
all dictate that vehicles for
space-c omme r c e, as dis-
tinguished from those for
space-exploration, should be
launched from the Equatorial
zone. Thus Quito, Nairobi or
perhaps Christmas Island may
emerge as the commercial ports
of the future.”
* * *
Milwaukee ( U.S .) “ Journal” :
“In terms of people, here’s what
happened in the last 20 years:
“In 1939 there were 1.1-
billion people in independent
States, 815-million in colonies
of Western nations and 170-
million in the Communist
empire.
“Today there are 965-million
in the Communist empire, 84-
million in Western colonial
possessions, 816-million in
newly freed Western colonial
areas and 700-million in inde-
pendent nations (not including
the newly freed colonial areas).
“Which Power is today’s
aggressor, expander, colonial
force, empire-builder?”
* ♦ *
London “Observer”: “The
best we can do for the Poles
and their neighbors is to try
to reduce the tension between
the Soviet Uniou and the West.
The less Russia fears a war,
the more ‘liberal’ she is likely
to be towards her satellites. But,
of course, we cannot accept it
as right that the people of
Poland, Rumania or East
Germany, any more than those
of Nyasaland, should per-
manently be denied freedom to
choose their own form of
government.
“The problem is how to
move away from a ‘two-camps
world,’ in which war is a con-
stant possibility and countries
are kept loyal by force, towards
a ‘one-world’ situation vin
which war has been made un-
likely through Great Power
agreement and the smaller
nations have thus acquired
some political freedom of
choice. That is a distant pros-
pect, but it is certain that the
path lies through diminishing
present antagonisms, not
through attempts to blow-up
the Communist Empire, how-
ever much we disapprove of it.
Mr. Nixon handled his visit to
Russia and Poland in a way
that suggests a new and promis-
ing American understanding of
this situation.”


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated, in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 8 131 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL. Manager.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Historic Buildings
Australians and particu-
larly Victorians with an
interest in preserving some-
thing of our historic past wel-
comed the news that Victoria’s
first tide-gauge house will be
retained for posterity.
Located at Williamstown, the
gauge-house formed part of
Breakwater Pier. It was built
by convict labor in 1855 with
bluestone from a Fort Gelli-
brand quarry. The president
of the National Trust of Aus-
tralia has now advised
Williamstown council that the
building has been classified
“A” in the National Trust’s
survey of Victorian buildings.
The survey takes account of
historical interest as well as
architectural merit, and an
effort has been made to ear-
mark buildings judged suffi-
ciently important to warrant
preservation at all costs.
The gauge-house is not, of
course, by any means the oldest
building in Williamstown, or
the only one built by convicts.
But its purpose and construc-
tion give it some significance in
Victoria’s history, so action
will be taken to see that it is
not demolished.
The National Trust’s initi-
ative in this and other cases
demonstrates that at least we
have one responsible organisa-
tion alive to the value of
history as embodied in our
older buildings. For too long
we have been apathetic about
preserving the material works
of our forefathers; many
buildings that could have been
retained at relatively low cost
to the community have been
demolished, particularly in the
last couple of decades.
Throughout the country,
especially in areas of long
settlement, there are many
buildings of significance to the
local historian and perhaps to
the nation. All cannot be
preserved, obviously; but
unless action is taken to identify
those of outstanding import-
ance some of great historic
value may be swept away in the
present building-boom.
As in the case of Williams-
town, municipal councils can
help by drawing attention to
such buildings within their
boundaries. This would at least
ensure full consideration of
their historical or architectural
interest, and the authority
empowered to determine such
matters would then do its best
“‘ Plastostrap' for cuts and abrasions ”
to see that any irreplaceable
link with the past was kept
intact. —Wusslean (Vic.).
The Wyndham Report
“A.J.W.’s” reference to the
Wyndham Report suggesting
that pupils will be allowed to
do an elective subject of their
choice is apt to be misleading
if it is supposed that the choice
will be the pupil’s and not the
headmaster’s (B. 19/8/’59).
What the report has sug-
gested is that all students
should study a common “core”
of subjects English, social
studies, science, maths, music,
art, crafts, physical and health
education and religious educa-
tion. To this common core
they could add “elective” sub-
jects, such as languages, history,
chemistry and physics, accord-
ing to their abilities. That is,
all pupils should study those
subjects—the common core —
in which, the committee be-
lieves, some knowledge is
essential to all citizens; and
they should pursue such other
studies as their aptitudes
suggest.
Since no pupil is a good
judge of his (her) own aptitude
—and since parents are even
worse judges—the judge will be
the headmaster, and no very
radical revolution will occur.
An important recommendation
of the committee is, however,
that all pupils should leave
school with the ability to write
and speak good, clear English.
The committee adds (rather
optimistically) that there is no
reason why every teacher
should not himself have a good
knowledge of English.
However excellent the recom-
mendations of the report may
be, there is no way of ensuring
that the “new system” will
really be any different from
the old one viz., simply a
means of getting pupils through
certain public examinations.
The plain fact is that com-
paratively few adult Aus-
tralians understand what edu-
cation really means. They
seem to look upon it as a sort
of pupil-in-the-slot machine for
producing good examinees.—
Sir (Q.).
Developing the North-west
The recent visit of a group
of Canberra Parliamentarians
to -the West Kimberleys was
not the first attempt to probe
the economic and settlement
possibilities of the Ord and
Fitzroy basins. About 25 years
ago Dr. Maurice Sternberg —
a Russian Jew with a flair for
colonisation —made a pretty
exhaustive study of the area
with a view to introducing into
it many thousands of his
refugee co-religionists from
Eastern Europe.
Dr. Sternberg then toured
the capital cities of the Com-
monwealth, lecturing on the
advisability of populating that
part of the continent with the
people he wanted to help. He
also showed an admirable
series of films that astonished
those who saw them. Few
had imagined that the North-
west contained such a mass of
desirable country.
There were many reasons
why Dr. Sternberg’s campaign
was not a success. Many who
heard him and were com-
petent to assess the proba-
bilities of his scheme saw
danger in settling inexperienced
colonists in an area as isolated
as the Kimberleys, where the
vagaries of climate would
always make agriculture
hazardous in the absence of
adequate communications and
of an irrigation-system esti-
mated to cost many millions.
The Federal Government no
doubt also appreciated these
difficulties, but the main objec-
tion was against settling an en-
clave of foreign-speaking people
in an area cut off for the most
part from any seat of govern-
ment. In the circumstances
there could have been no other
decision.
Although present condi-
tions in the North-west are
slightly different from those
of Dr. Sternberg’s time, some
of the objections then raised
remain valid. Chief among
these are the climate and the
lack of communications.
Country subject to monsoonal
influence and prolonged dry
spells could, it seems, be suc-
cessfully farmed only after
long experience, even were the
millions necessary for irriga-
tion made available.
Settlement and development
of the North-west calls for
something more than wishful
thinking, oil-optimism and
occasional political visits; in
fact, anyone who has given
serious thought to the matter
and who has any acquaintance
with the area must realise that


Fail?, in Mi*
Future
It has been remarked in many places that
Australia’s current expansion is being accompanied
by a wide and general stability.
There is, indeed, reason to be pleased
with the balanced showing in our progress.
Industry is spreading, production is high, the
population increases.
In this very fact there is an element which,
I believe, should be prompting our thoughts on
what a continuance of stability implies. That
element is Change.
To some degree, change conflicts with
stability. And yet, were it not for the changes
that operate amongst us, the Australian story
today would not be nearly as bright as it is.
Look at the rapid developments we now have
to live to in agriculture, science, medicine,
education, industrial methods, and every other
department of the national life. They are proof
of the ancient truth that everything under Heaven
must obey the law of change.
Because there is no escaping that law, the
future for us here —as for people in every other
part of the world—is going to be demanding. It
is also going to be rewarding, but the extent of
that will be decided on how ready we are to
accommodate ourselves to changes as they come.
In our economy, for instance, we should be
looking for something more than a steadiness that
satisfies our present daily needs; we should be
measuring it against the levels of the next ten,
twenty, fifty years, when the world will be much
more different again from what it is in 1959.
A clear sense of purpose will help us to do
that; a forward defining and understanding of our
tasks, and a will faithfully to perform them in
league with every changing circumstance and every
opportunity that will arise.
Stability, without this sense of change, could
become stagnation.
And stagnation is one word which we as
Australians, with the inestimable wealth of a
continent to work upon, must insist on keeping
locked well away in our dictionaries.
y/ \
T ee*c^
y
the whole of northern Aus-
tralia is calling for a co-
ordinated economic and
settlement policy, based upon
science and practical experi-
ence.
The millions the Federal
Government is spending on
research in the desert wastes
of Antarctica —and much other
money besides —could be used
to prepare the top third of
/this continent to absorb a
population to some extent com-
mensurate with its vastness
and potentialities.
The job justifies an ad hoc
Federal-State organisation to
handle the development of
this area, which today looks
pretty much as it did when
Dampier visited it two-and-a-
half centuries ago, and about
which we profess to be so
touchy, vis-a-vis the teeming
millions of the “near north.”—
Fred Aarons (N.S.W.).
Promoting Soccer
With so many Europeans
settling in Australia we have
a splendid opportunity of rais-
ing the standard of Soccer
and really putting it on the
map—indeed, I would say that
in a few years there’s no
reason why crowds at Soccer-
matches shouldn’t be as big as,
or even bigger than, those at
Rugby League and Rugby
Union matches.
Unfortunately Soccer-clubs
seem to be going the wrong
way about it. The present
trend seems to be towards im-
porting players from overseas.
This is a very short-sighted
attitude. Admittedly, these
imported players are good—
possibly better than most Aus-
tralian players of today—but
they are mostly past their
prime, and in a year or two
they will become liabilities
rather than assets to the teams
that have imported them.
What this country needs is
expert coaches from overseas.
Certainly we have a number
of splendid overseas coaches
here already, but many more
are needed.
One coach with an interna-
tional reputation told me that
in no other part of the world
had he seen youths with the
keenness and ability of the
Australian lads. He once
remarked to me: “Give me
fifteen or twenty Australian
youths of from sixteen to
eighteen years of age, and in
two to three years I will
produce a team of first-grade
Soccer-players equal to any of
the great European teams.”
Today many first - grade
teams find that they haven’t
enough young players to
replace the older players who
have reached the stage when
they should retire, so they have
to import more players from
overseas. If these teams con-
centrated on training young
Australian boys this difficult
position would never arise.
Another matter in need of
attention is the transferring of
players from one team to
another. This is all right
between seasons, bbt once the
season has started there should
be no further transfers until it’s
over. At present it could easily
develop to the stage where the
wealthiest club would have the
best team —not a good state
of affairs in Soccer or any
other sport. — Eureka (N.S.W.).
The Physically Disabled
A recent campaign by the
Melbourne Junior Chamber of
Commerce publicised the plight
of one of our most neglected
community groups—the physi-
cally handicapped.
That the chamber’s efforts
were necessary —and there can
be no doubting it reflects
widespread indifference to this
very human but by no means
insurmountable problem. The
fact is that for the vast
majority no problem exists;
they never think of it. And
where the comparative few do
show some interest there is,
unfortunately, considerable
ignorance also, as any trained
social worker well knows.
At present there are some
120,000 Australians on the ,
full-time invalid-pension list,
and about three times that
number partially disabled. This
near half-million, together with
the increasing number of aged
people, constitutes a sufficiently
serious drag on the economy
to warrant real action apart
altogether from any humani-
tarian standpoint.
The essential problem is not
the particular disabilities of
individuals but employers’
reluctance to engage anyone
with an obvious affliction.
Evidently we haven’t yet
reached the stage of recognis-
ing a man’s ability without
stressing his disability. It is
much easier to shelve the issue
with its attendant personal
embarrassment, prejudice and
possible conflict with rigid
union rules or awards.
Of course this attitude
ignores the point that a dis-
abled person often becomes a
good employee because of his
handicap, provided the job is
not beyond his physical powers.
And obviously many jobs can


be done just as well by dis-
abled people as by their more
fortunate fellows.
The handicapped man’s main
enemy is, therefore, not his per-
sonal affliction. It is the
potential employer and the com-
munity at large who can help
him if they will. By the same
token, no disabled person wants
charity. He wants a job he
can do and the self-respect it
'gives.
If a country is judged on
how it caters for its aged and
infirm citizens, then we don’t
rate highly. Perhaps enlighten-
ment is dawning. If so, it is a
slow process in need of a strong
stimulant. —Xavier (Vic.).
Atlantic Schools
There is a proposal on foot
in England, initiated by Air-
Marshal Sir Lawrance Darval,
to found in six different
countries (Canada, France,
Britain, Greece, Germany and
the U.S.) Atlantic Colleges to
which carefully selected boys
—aged 16 to 19 —would be
sent regardless of the financial
position of their parents or of
their social origins.
The boys would come from
the 15 Nato countries, from
uncommitted countries, and (it
is hoped) from Iron Curtain
countries as well. They would
be housed in “national” houses
and each national group would
be accompanied by a teacher
of its own language and history.
They would receive first-class
academic training, as well as
training in initiative and
resourcefulness. After it is all
over, these Atlantic young
would return to their own
“ They make him giddy.”
countries gladder and wiser
men.
The idea contains many
interesting possibilities and
could, no doubt usefully, be
followed in the Asian en-
closure in which Australians
live. Wouldn’t it be possible
to try a similar scheme in the
Seato part of the world? The
idea behind it is not to put
“teeth” into Seato or Nato, but
to endow Western youth with
a little more firmness of pur-
pose and to act as an antidote
to the “couldn’t care less”
movement on this side of the
Iron Curtain.
Patriotism in such an atmo-
sphere can be tamed, yet
strengthened to the point when
common humanity overcomes
the prejudices tihat have
hitherto divided men of
different nations, language and
social environment. Atcol
(Q-).
Commemorative Stamp
Issues
Without denying the rights
of “Plain Australian’s” com-
plaint against our latest corn-
memorative stamp-issues (B.
12/8/’59), I certainly question
his statement that “for many
years now Australian stamps
have been unfavorably com-
pared with issues from Canada
and N.Z.”
Several of our issues—especi-
ally among the commemorative
ones during the past 15
years or. so have been highly
esteemed by philatelists and
artists abroad; in fact, the
Cobb and Co. issue of a few
years ago, for instance, was
named at that time among the
world’s 10 most artistic con-
temporary new stamps. Like-
wise, Australia’s blue Postal
Union issue was judged equal
to the best of all the Postal
Union series minted simul-
taneously by all nations of the
world.
Also contrary to “P.A.,” the
P.M.G.’s Department special
philatelic section does intelli-
gently aim at artistic perfection
of design; prominent artists
and critics are consulted and
commissioned from time to
time, and the fact that now
and then a particularly un-
imaginative and indifferently
executed motif gets by doesn’t
necessarily mean that nobody
in authority cares. Rather
than plain departmental in-
sensibility, pressure of time or
other circumstance occasionally
intervenes. Postscript
(N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 554
Across
I—Putting1—Putting shiny packing around activity in the metal
business. (10)
4 —Natty and stylish greeting in the hundreds. (4)
B—A8 —A playwright hopes to live on such majestic mercery. (9)
11— Wanderer backing Pythias’s friend. (5)
12— Unfading? A mother managed yours. (11)
14 — A bit of a bounder. (3)
15 — Art Nero violated is more highly decorated. (7)
16 — Tall fellow sustained by tig
fare. (7)
19—The noise with which a seed-
case .breaks a Dickensian. (7)
21—Middles. (7)
23 —A Sheridan citizen is coming
back with a muscular twitch. (3)
25 — Coppers have their ups and
downs in this law-defying
activity. (3-2, 6)
26 — Senior tree. (5)
27 The restaurant’s Friday special
part of the permanent-way. (9)
29 — Liquidated swing around the
French in the south-west. (4)
30 — Evasive talkers won’t get down
to these uplifting garments with
heaps to follow. (5, 5)
Down
1— Violent weather fuss which is
ripped. (7)
2 Measure the name of the letter
meaning fifty. (3)
3 Direction to bite when setting-
up house? (7)
5 A classic hit which scores the
maximum. (5)
6 The organist is glad to have
such comfort. (7)
7 Daze affected the wood-
former. (4)
9 —Some time before Kelly had a
hankering. (7)
10 —Dispose of the dead examina-
tion. (5)
13—Part of our Canberra legisla-
tion having no amendment. (5)
17 — Varsity in the small Catholic
alphabet of old Scandinavia. (5)
18— Oriental region having South
Australia's shape for Roy Rene’s
article, (7)
19 — Set on places for driving off
leggings. (7)
20— Put forward for a considera-
tion. (7)
21 — They cover space arrange-
ments. (5)
22 Sarah gets a tenant for archaic
salads. (7)
24 Raced into this bounder about
to name a nucleus of a regiment
or corps. (5)
25 Sour girl of ill-repute. (4)
28 —Sink the red kitchenware toy
which spins up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 553.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. DUESBURY, Deputy
Chairman; ALFRED S. WHITE, A. G. PARKER.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
big wheel and finish the plant-
ing smartly,” he, said, “and
renew all that wire, otherwise
they’ll eat us out of house and
home. We’ll have to stop the
gang cane-cutting for a couple
of days and pay them what
they’re earning to cut plants.”
“But that’s six-quid a day a
man,” Nick objected, “and with
all that cane they cut we won’t
be able to lose a minute plant-
ing otherwise it will all go
stale.”
“I know,” Gilly’s father said
mournfully, “but it can’t be
helped. We’ll have to get up
at sparrow-cough in the morn-
ing and bore in.”
/“'illy and I eyed the fallen
bundles of cane, stretching
out into the distance like an
endless corduroy crossing, with
dismay.
Gilly said “Imagine the
Hairy Mary in all that cane.”
He cleaned a stick and
dropped it to the ground. From
the aerodrome-block came the
muted sound of the tractor-
engine and the rhythmic beat
of planter knife-blades. Gilly
listened soberly.
“The old man and Nick are
working terrible hard with the
planting,” he declared, “and
the damn’ horses getting in all
the time are ruining every-
thing.”
He frowned. Motives of
great purity moved across his
mind.
“I wish we could do some-
thing about those horses for
them,” he said.
The council chairman’s cab-
bages showed us the way. The
frail gesture of shooting
shanghai-stones at the ex-
tremities of stray horses we
passed on the road to school
faded into obscurity compared
to the promise they offered. We
learned of these things from
the poundkeeper, who ex-
ploded across our line of vision
in a melee of horses in front
of the horse-prison of the
poundyard.
“Block them,” he yelled.
Gilly and I took bicycles as
barriers and cordoned the road.
The poundkeeper lifted hair-
tuft explosions on diverted
rumps with a. richocheting
stock-whip and drove the
horses into the yard. He rode
back towards us and offered
appreciation.
“Thank goodness I got that
mob in,” he said. “It would’ve
been worth my job not to.
They got into the shire chair-
man’s yard last night and ate
all his prize cabbages he was
growing for the Show.”
Gilly’s eyes widened in in-
spiration.
“I wish you’d come down
our road and get some horses,”
he said. “They’re eating us out
of house and home.”
The poundkeeper scratched
his ear doubtfully.
“Trouble is, no one owns
that mob,” he said. “Nobody
would claim them if we im-
pounded them.”
“Fes, brother, but just think what the blokes back o’
Bourke Would give to have this Water on THEIR land!”
Gilly felt the need of con-
version.
“There’s some good horses
amongst them, but,” he pointed
out. “They’ve got whatsis-
names that go back to William
the Conqueror. I wish you’d
come down and get them,” he
added, “otherwise we’re liable
to be ruined.”
The poundkeeper sur-
rendered.
“All right,” se said. “I’ll ride
down that way this afternoon.”
/“'illy found evidence of ful-
filled promise as we rode
home.
“Look,” he said. “Not a nag
to be seen. He came and got
the lot.”
He smiled hugely.
“Wait till we tell Nick and
the old man what we did.”
We waited on the headland
with forced casualness as the
tractor and planter came
towards us.
“How’s the planting going,
Dad?” ’Gilly asked nonchal-
antly.
“It would have to be going
reasonably well by now,” his
father said. “There’s nothing
else left to go wrong.”
It was a prophecy which
failed to allow for the effects
of a tea-tree stump below
ground-level near the headland.
It managed to smash the com-
plete drill-plough and mould-
board attachment from the
planter without stalling the
tractor. Nick contemplated the
wreckage and passed detached
judgment.
“You’ve got to pay on a
10/20,” he conceded. “There’s
not many tractors strong
enough to smash a planter up
like that. There’s no doubt
about it, they’ve got a mighty
old engine in them.”
He nodded expansively at the
tractor idling on the headland,
its straight, uncompromising
side-exhaust pipe blowing a
shimmering series of smoke-
rings in wavering procession
towards us.
“Yes, she’s beating well, the
old beggar,” he declared.
The tractor spluttered,
missed, coughed, picked-up,
imitated a crate of bottles being
fed through a cement-mixer
and thudded to a halt.
“Good Lord,” Nick an-
nounced into a brittle silence,
“The old beggar’s seized up.”
TTe unscrewed the sump-plug,
examined the oil-covered
ground, fingered metal frag-
ments, and made diagnosis.
“Thrown a bloody bearing,”
he announced blankly. He rose.
“Thrown a bloody bearing,” he
informed the mountain-herded
paddocks to the east.
He stared at us. “It’s thrown
a bloody bearing,” he repeated
unbelievingly.
“We’ll have to use the horses
and the old horse-planter to
finish the paddock,” Gilly’s
father decided. With a mind
tuned by experience to alterna-
tives, he turned to Nick. “What
sort of order is the old horse-
planter in?” he demanded.
Nick regarded him vacantly.
“It’s thrown a bloody bearing,”
he canted. “Fancy that, I
never thought I’d live to see
the day that it’d throw a bloody
bearing.”
“Oh, damn, I’ll go and have
a look at the horse-planter my-
self,” Gilly’s father com-
plained. “Nick,” he shouted,
“run the horses in.”
Nick focused.
“What’s that?”
“Get the horses take the
kids to give you a hand.”
Nick nodded.
“Are they in the day-
paddock or the night-pad-
dock?” he demanded.
Gilly’s father shook his head.
“No,” he said, “I noticed a
bit of good picking down at the
siding this morning, so I put
them out on the road after
smoko. They shouldn’t be far.”
Nick turned towards us.
“Well, jump in the truck,”
he ordered. “We’ll slip down
to the siding and get them.”
/"i illy and I sat on the truck-
seat beside Nick, in a
communion of misery. Gilly
looked at me, turned to Nick
and swallowed. The truck
rattled and bumped its way
down the headland. Gilly
cleared his throat.
“Nick,” he began tentatively.
Nick inclined his chin in
acknowledgment.
“Nick,” Gilly repeated.
Nick changed gears for the
descent down the hill to the
bridge at the bottom of the
cutting. His foot lifted from
the accelerator.
“Well what is it?” he de-
manded. .
Gilly swallowed again.
“Nick,” he burst out, “Nick,
we got something terrible to
tell you . .


South Australian Round -up
The Talbot car driven from Adelaide to Darwin in 1909
by H. H. Dutton. Sitting in it are John H. Dutton and
Mrs. John Dutton and (standing) Josephine Heysen.
D. C. M. Coombe, with one of his Poll Herefords at
Moon Hills, Myponga.
By ROLLO GILLESPIE
This year, for the first
time, the Royal Agri-
cultural and Horticul-
tural Society of South
Australia arranged a tour of
behind-the-scenes preparation
for the Royal Adelaide ShovL
Sponsored by the Shell Com-
pany of Australia, Ltd., and
Shell Chemical (Aust.) Pty.,
Ltd., the tour was attended by
representatives of the press
and radio and planned on the
pattern of previous tours in
Victoria and N.S.W.
The value of such tours is
that they give the press an
opportunity of seeing the work
of studmasters, farmers and
graziers, and of assessing the
standard of exhibits. If the
results of this preview are
faithfully reported, the general
public—often limited in recog-
nition of the man-on-the-land
—at least has a chance of
learning that it’s not a matter
of just buying “five acres and
a cow” and making a fortune.
The economy of the Com-
monwealth is still largely based
on its pastoral and agricul-
tural industries. Consequently
those who follow these indus-
tries must put in much mental
effort as well as hard physical
labor. This truth is easily
ignored or forgotten by those
who, with a vague hankering
for “living the life of a gentle-
man,” don’t stop to think
about the work that goes on.
So their children, accepting the
products, raw and processed,
of the land as a matter of
course, are in danger of
neglecting a heritage.
Without the generosity of
Shell and Shell Chemical, a
simple but comprehensive
demonstration of this fact of
economic life would not be
possible. As it is, the tours
are fascinating to all the parties
directly concerned. Journalists
love them, the show societies
undoubtedly benefit from the
publicity, and farmers and
graziers—and civic authorities,
too—apparently enjoy meeting
ff ueer folk who iollow the
Way.
The only people who, on
the surface, do not overtly
benefit are Shell and Shell
Chemical, who have the
pleasure of footing the bill,
Bu t there must be some un-
seen reward for an orgamsa-
tion public-spirited enough to
s P9? s< ?. r these enterprises,
She 1 and Shell Chemica
take their own part in primary
ductjon a £ d secondary
f ndust because their wide
e > of petroleum . products
and chemjcals derived there-
from serve the needs of farmer
and industrialist alike No _
where js thjs more evident tha n
j n s outb Australia, which, in
tbe j ast 20 years, has changed
f rom a state relying almost
entirely on primary produc-
don j nto one w here secondary
industry has for the past decade
beenL growing to major
importance.
On Sunday, August 2, 18
press- and radio-men, a repre-
sentative of the S.A. Depart-
ment of Agriculture and three
ladies assembled in the presi-
dent’s room at Wayville .
(Adelaide) Showground for a
dinner to which R. C. Gosse,
president of the R.A.H.S., had
invited them. Greeted by the
president and his chairman,
Keith O. Shillabeer, by Harold
Finnis, director-secretary of the
society, and H. P. (Bert) Clark-
son, State deputy-manager of
Shell, each guest was given a
badge of the society,
This elegant medallion
served a double purpose; it
gave the name and breed of
its wearer as a simple means
of introduction and, more
important, will admit its
holder to the full privileges of
membership at the Royal
Adelaide Show (September
3-10). At the dinner we met
our “front men”: C. R. (Bert)
At Newbold: Mrs. Jack Reddin and Leslie, with the
champion Poll Dorset ram from this year’s Sydney
Sheep Show.


(L. to r.) R. A. Norris, Charlie Lennon and Jim Downie
tattooing a Shorthorn calf at Faversham, Littlehampton.
Ann Bush show-jumping at Morelia, Mount Barker.
Kelly, M.H.R., the R.A.H.S.
councillor responsible for lead-
ing the tour (and, as he so
often said, for our moral
welfare!); A. H. (Bob) Jolley,
Shell’s P.R.0.; David Bruce,
Scottish-born State manager
of Shell Chemical; Ronald H.
Sedsman, deputy-director of
the Royal and the man who
did most of the work of
organisation ; W. K. (Ken)
Robertson, his assistant—like
Ron Sedsman, a trained
journalist.
Most of the journalists were
from Adelaide papers —there
were only two inter-Staters.
Some were from specialist
journals, others from the daily
press, so they varied in tech-
nical knowledge of farming.
That’s where Bert Kelly came
in. A practical fanner, whose
knowledge is recognised
throughout the Commonwealth
—he’s a member of the com-
mittee-of-inquiry investigating
closer-settlement in the North-
ern Territory—he was welcome
wherever we went and brought
us into orbit as soon as we
reached a property or installa-
tion. He never ceased to
remind us that he is a poli-
tician and his speeches
proved that he is a good one
—but his care in explaining
the finer points of farming or
judging stock showed where
his heart really lay.
As a man-on-the-land, he
taught us to look at the stock
we saw with a professional eye
and in mixed company,
where some are looking for
details of breeding and others
for “human-interest” stories
or just a general description,
this was important discipline.
Under Kelly’s guidance there
was no excuse for missing the
significance of each exhibit.
Just before we assembled,
South Australia had had its
first real rainfall for the last
year. In his introductory
speech, the president 'of the
R.A.H.S. told us we would
find the farmers grinning from
ear to ear and, when the touT
started, we- saw the point of
his remarks. The State has
suffered from nearly two years
of drought—the driest period
in its history—and it was there-
fore amazing to see the stock
in such prime condition, and
heartening, when we left, to
see the green pick beginning
to show through the parched
paddocks.
Mount Compass
We set out in an Ansett
Pioneer coach, captained by
Malcolm Thompson, on Mon-
day morning. Our first visit
was to H. T. Kidman’s Aber-
deen Angus stud at Kiloran,
Mount Compass. In the
Mount Lofty range, 43 miles
south of Adelaide, Kiloran has
an average annual rainfall of
about 32in. The property’s
950 acres, all iropstone hills,
which 12 years ago were
covered with scrub, without
improvement of any kind, are
today seeded-down to per-
manent pasture, and worth
£5O-£75 an acre, compared
with the original value of
about £4.
The Aberdeen Angus stud
was started in 1949, with the
purchase of two females and
a sire from A. L. Dunn, of
Ashbourne (S.A.), one of the
pioneer-breeders of these cattle
in Australia, and later aug-
mented by 18 stud-cows from
the same stud. The bull Terin-
allum Gallant was installed as
head-sire in 1953 and the show-
team—four bulls, four heifers
and a cow —are all his
progeny..
Although Kiloran cattle
made their first appearance at
Royal Adelaide only five years
ago, they have won their share
of awards since, including the
Aberdeen Angus Challenge
Cup for the best bull of the
breed bred in Australia. The
Kiloran herd at present
includes 65 females of Balfront
blood.
In 1953 Tait Kidman also
established a Southdown stud,
buying 80 ewes of Kohatu
blood from N.S.W. Present
strength of the stud is .150
ewes, and, although it has not
shown at the Royal, it has
gained considerable success at
country shows against strong
Route of R.A.H.S. journalists’ tour, sponsored by Shell.


George Lydeamore with some of the Lanac Jersey stud.
competition. Besides stud-
stock, Kidman runs about
1000 Border Leicester-Merino
first-cross ewes for fat-lamb
production.
Entertained to morning-tea
in the homestead, we met Mrs.
Kidman, as progressively-
minded as her husband, who
is making a name as one of
the best of the younger stud-
masters in the State.
Jersey Stud
Next stop was at Geoffrey
O’Halloran Giles’s Lanac
Jersey stud. This 250-acre
property has twice topped the
management section in the
State Dairyfarm Competition.
Its owner, one of the youngest
members of the State’s Legis-
lative Council, was S.A.’s
Nuffield Scholar in 1956 and
spent six months in Britain,
visiting research - institutes,
dairy-studs and the leading
shows, y In addition to Lanac,
O’Halloran Giles is also
developing a property of 1450
acres—heath and hill-gum
country around Lucindale —
where he’s sowing-down straw-
berry-clover and phalaris.
Lanac, 35 miles south of
Adelaide, has an average 32in.
rainfall. It was originally
known as Lanacoona Jersey
stud and was the home of
Melvin Duchess, probably the
greatest show-cow ever seen in
South Australia. Following
this tradition, Lanac Countess
10th —home-bred from a sire
and dam also bred on the pro-
perty —was champion-cow at
the Adelaide Royal in 1956.
Belmont Daffodil 4th, the last
Jersey cow imported into Aus-
tralia, arrived off the boat and
shown in poor condition, won
two thirds at the last Adelaide
Royal.
Hoping to emulate his suc-
cess of two years ago, when
Lanac Jerseys took champion-
cow, first in milk, first and
second two-years-in-milk and
first and second in the Navua
Trophy, O’Halloran Giles has
entered a team of 20 for this
year’s show and may put in
14 or 15. He’s quite frank
about his reason for show-
ing: he finds it the best form
of advertisement.
The Lanac herd has only
been in existence for nine
years, and at present varies
between 70 and 100 pedigreed
Jersey of which an
average of 40 x are milked.
Always using bulls from some
of the top-production cows in
Australia, O’Halloran Giles
believes that the genetic struc-
ture for production in his herd
is among the best in the State.
His present senior sire,
Bermersyde Eileen 31st Aim,
has a dam which was selected
as champion cow of all breeds
at this year’s Sydney Royal
Easter—based on a yield of
8521 b. of fat. The other factor
he. considers of paramount
importance for long productive
life is the shape and attach-
ment of the udder —strong
attachment, high above the
hocks and with teats well
placed. In recent months 30
Lanac Jerseys have averaged
3861 b. butterfat at 5.4 per cent,
under non-irrigation and good
dairying conditions. Lanac
Maranta 3rd was second top
heifer in the State with 5111 b.
fat.
After a barbecue-lunch we
left Lanac and, on our way
to the next property on our
visiting-list, watched the opera-
tion of a rotary bracken-
slasher, invented and patented
by I. K. (Kelly) Arthur. The
inventor, who hails from
Mount Compass, is gifted with
considerable imagination and
a sly sense of humor. His
machine is highly efficient and
capable of clearing the
toughest bracken and brambles
and of cutting through sizable
saplings.
Poll Herefords
Moon Hills, Myponga, is
D. C. M. Coombe’s Poll Here-
ford stud—one of the first
of that breed established in
South Australia. Since 1950,
when he won the first Poll
Hereford bull-championship
given at a Royal Adelaide
Show, Coombe has been con-
sistently successful. Last year
he took awards for the senior-
reserve and best Poll Hereford
sire bred in S.A. This year
he is showing six bulls, two
females and a steer.
The stud’s foundation-sires
were Kildrummie Mart, from
D. and W. Carnegie, of Hol-
brook (N.S.W.); The Braes
Bob Domino, from J. Hanson,
of McArthur (Vic.); Kil-
drummie Matlock sth and
Harrington Snowstorm, bought
from W. O. Fairfax, Narellan
(N.S.W.). Foundation-females
came from The Braes, Mount
Hamilton, Munduney and
Merryville. Moon Hills has
topped the Poll Hereford
market at Alice Springs and
done consistently well at the
annual sales at Adelaide,
Naracoorte and Mount
Pleasant. In the 1958 S.A.
beef-carcass competition a
Moon Hills steer came fifth,
with a record number of
points for eye-muscle.
The property —about 550
acres was originally the
homestead-portion of Scotts
Station, though all the early
buildings were burnt-down in
bushfires. When Coombe took
it up 30 years ago, the
carrying-capacity was 300
sheep. Today it carries 1000
ewes and 50 Poll Hereford
cows and their calves. Of the
1000 ewes grazed, 100 are stud
Romney Marsh and 100 Stud
Dorset Horns; the rest are
crossbreds.
Victor Harbor
We spent the night at
Victor Harbor, S.A.’s leading
seaside-resort and one of the
most famous'-in the Common-
wealth. The town is situated
on Encounter Bay, which was
discovered and named by
Flinders in 1802, to com-
memorate his encounter there
with Baudin’s French ship Le
Geographe. Later a couple
of whaling-stations were set-
up, and this industry flourished
for many years, although it’s
no longer operating. When
the first settlers came to S.A.,
Governor Hindmarsh chose
Encounter Bay as the site of
the capital and principal port
of the new colony; hut
Colonel Light, arriving later
with full power and authority,
reversed this decision and
chose Adelaide instead.
Victor Harbor has never
really developed as a port, but,
apart from its popularity as a
holiday-resort in summer
the normal population of about
2500 leaps to 10,000 —the
town is now the “capital” of
a rich and fertile hinterland,
which is one of the principal
dairying areas of the State and
also suitable for woo! and fat
lambs. At Victor Harbor we
were given an informal wel-
come by the Mayor —Council-
lor W. W. Jenkins, M.P. —
councillors and leading
citizens.
Goolwa Barrage
Next morning we started
our day by visiting the system
of barrages built across the
mouth of the Murray River to
prevent salt-water from the
sea flooding-up in periods
when the river is low, spoiling
the freshness of Lakes Alexan-
dria and Albert, and so
destroying the productivity of
Shorthorns at Nalpa, near Wellington.


RS
ADELAIDE
~..s
L
a
n
.
S
□
SEPTEMBER
3rd - 10th
♦ *A%«
♦ *
r # \u *»
i'vi %
/ Displays of y
Agricultural and
Pastoral Produce
HORSES-IN-ACTION
TROTTING
LOG CHOPPING
SHEEP DOG TRIALS
N SHEEP SHEARING <
FIREWORKS
MARCHING GIRLS
VETERAN CARS
MASSED BANDS
CYCLING
and all the fan of the Fair!
•>wju! iuuiiuiui UIIU
Horticultural Society of South Australia Inc.
the surrounding areas. The
five barrages built between
Lake Alexandrina and the sea
also have the effect of keeping
the level of the river high
enough, for 50 miles above
the lake, to permit gravitation-
watering of a large tract of
reclaimed river-flats. O. T.
Cleggett, Superintendent of
Barrages, showed us over the
largest and most costly of the
structures, which crosses the
main stream at Goolwa. This
consists of a concrete floor
carried on thousands of piles
and surmounted by concrete
piers which carry jarrah stop-
logs. This barrage is provided
with a lock-chamber for pass-
ing fishing-boats and pleasure-
craft and a navigable pass for
steamers.
Shorthorns
From there we went to
Nalpa station, near Welling-
ton, where we were met and
entertained to morning-tea by
E. J. Withers, chairman of the
Beef Cattle Committee of the
R.A.H.S. council, and his wife.
Nalpa, 10,000 acres, lies on
the shores of Lake Alexan-
drina and is also watered by
the Murray, which follows the
eastern frontage of the pro-
perty. The station is famous
for its beef-Shorthorn stud,
founded with Collingrove
blood-cattle, descendants of
stock originally imported by
the Angas family. Until 1937,
bulls and females from the
Milton Park stud were added
to this foundation ; but in that
year Nalpa imported its first
stud-sire, Aldie March On,
from the United Kingdom.
Sipce then a number of
high-class sires, either imported
direct from Scotland or bred
from fully imported blood,
have been used at Nalpa. Most
notable of these have been
Royal Statesman, Kirkton
Forrester, Antrim Union Jack,
Banchory Prefect and Cowl
Cowl Crighton. These last
two bulls are present top-sires.
Nalpa stud-Shorthorns have
won premier awards at
Adelaide, Melbourne and
Sydney Royal Shows, but in
recent years the station has
confined its showing to the fat-
cattle classes at Adelaide
Royal. This year a team of
five steers is being exhibited.
The chief aim of the stud is
to breed sires for commercial
herds, particularly in the drier
parts of Australia. Nalpa
Shorthorn females are in
demand as breeders and Nalpa
blood is prominent in the pedi-
grees of a large number of
Australian Shorthorn and Poll
Shorthorn cattle.
In addition to stud-cattle,
a flock of Anama - blood
wethers, bred on the Withers’
property in the Wentworth
district of N.S.W., is kept for
wool. Dorset Horn-Merino-
cross fat-lamb production adds
to the stockraising activities on
the station. Mrs. Withers,
Federal and State past-presi-
dent of the C.W.A., runs a
3000-acre property adjoining
Nalpa, where she concentrates
on the production of export-
lambs.
Murray Bridge
Leaving Nalpa, we went on
to Murray/ Bridge, 54 miles
east of Adelaide on the main
inter-State highway, where
road- and railway-bridges span
the river near the commercial
centre of the town.
Perhaps I was able to see
more of Murray Bridge than
other members of our party.
Having ricked my ankle earlier
in the morning, I was driven
from Nalpa in the car of
the district - representative
of Shell, by a shorter
route than that taken by the
coach. After having my leg
bandaged by C. N. Pfeiffer, a
leading pharmacist in the town
—incidentally, I discovered, a
lifelong reader of The
Bulletin —I was driven round
the corpmercial area and
across the bridge. In the course
of this journey I saw enough
to substantiate the claim that
this is a provincial city in the
making. Present population is
5000, and primary industries
in the area include the S.A.
Farmers’ Union dairy-products
factory on the bank of the
river. Nearby is R. J. Finlay-
son’s butter - factory and
Noske Brothers’ flourmill.
Heavy industry is represented
by Male Brothers, manufac-
turers of agricultural machin-
ery and general engineers, and
by Nilsen, Cromie Pty., Ltd.,
who make electrical switch-
gear.
There is also a large table-
poultry industry being devel-
oped in the neighborhood, with
an associated processing-factory
planned, which will eventually
employ over 100 pepole.
The district is largely
dependent on dairying, and is
among the richest areas in the
Commonwealth. The irrigated
swamps between Mannum and
Wellington produce seven-
million gallons of milk a year.
The attraction of the river
makes the town ideally sited
as a tourist-centre.
Show-jumping
Next oh our list was H. R.
Walsh and Sons’ property, the
Morelia and Walson Studs at


Mount Barker in the Adelaide
Hills. We were met by Her-
bert Walsh, former national
president of the Jersey Herd
Society and present State presi-
dent of the Thoroughbred
Blood Horse Breeders’ Asso-
ciation of Australia, and by
his son Jack Walsh, chairman
of the S.A. branch of the
Equestrian Federation of Aus-
tralia. Both father and son
are councillors of the R.A.H.S.
—there is only one other such
father - and - son team (Sir
Walter Duncan and his son
John) in the State —and both
Jack Walsh and his wife are
active competitor^in equestrian
events at leading S.A. shows.
We first saw an exhibition
of show-jumping, given by
Brian Crago (studmaster at
Morelia and Australian repre-
sentative at the Stockholm
Olympics in 1956), who is a
member‘of the final squad at
present training for the 1960
Games in Rome. He was rid-
ing Toscanella, which has now
been taken, to Sydney for
training and possible selection
for the Rome Olympics. He
was followed by Mrs. Jack
Walsh, Ann and Jane Bush,
Sergeant Frank Pattison and
Mounted Constable Don
Harris, both from the S.A.
Police Mounted Division.
Morelia has entered four
horses for the Adelaide Royal.
Other activities at Walson
are the breeding of Cheviot
sheep, which Herbert Walsh
introduced into Australia as
a breed which can be relied on
to fatten well and quickly—
he’s showing- six rams and six
ewes this year, including last
year’s champion ram and
reserve-champion ewe —and,
of course, Jersey cattle.
Morelia Jersey Stud, founded
in 1920, is justly famous at
the Adelaide Show. The
homestead, where we were
entertained to afternoon-tea,
was built over 100 years ago
and, extensively damaged in
the 1954 earthquake, has lately
been modernised.
We had dinner at the Stir-
ling Hotel, where we were the
guests of Derek A. H. Clark,
S.A. manager of Shell.
Shorthorns Again
Next morning our first call
was at Littlehampton, where
we inspected R. A. Norris’s
Faversham Shorthorn Stud.
Founded in 1954, this is now
the home of four notable bulls,
all imported—Erimus Janus,
Erimus Larrikin, Westdrums
Everest and the famous Cal-
rossie Tranquil.
Tranquil, bought at the
Coonong dispersal-sale, has
brought-in more than £125,000
gross for his progeny up to
date. Studmaster Norris
believes that the bull-calf
lately dropped at Faversham,
by Janus out of a dam sired
by Tranquil, is the best that his
stud has yet produced. His
breeding-policy is firmly based
on Calrossie blood-lines and
his record shows that he is
satisfied with nothing but the
best. The original sire at
Faversham was Coonong
Architect, followed by Mun-
duney Scotchman, which sired
last year’s supreme champion
at the Adelaide Royal. This
“A little bull”...at Mount Pleasant. Rosebank Lancer
4th, with (t. to r.) Sir Stanley Murray, R. C. Gosse
(president R.A.H.S.), C. R. Kelly, M.H.R. (“front man”),
H. J. Finnis (director, R.A.H.S.) and A. H. Jolley (Shell
Co. of Australia).
year the team will be 13 bulls
and heifers.
Goats and Stone
Charles F. Smith’s property
at Tanahmerah, Balhannah,
was our’ next stop. There we
looked-over an Angora-goat
stud, which is unique in S.A.
and possibly in the Common-
wealth. Smith founded the
stud in 1947, when his pro-
perty was covered by stringy-
bark and heavy scrub. He
decided to run goats to help in
clearing the land, and started
to experiment with a breed
which, suited to the wide range
of Australian climatic condi-
tions, would produce mohair
and make the experiment a
profitable pastoral under-
taking.
The venture surpassed his
expectations in returns from
sale of mohair, and the saving
in chemicals and labor for
control of noxious weeds and
herbage. He started with pure
Angora goats, but, after
experimenting for a number
of years, recognised that the
pure breed had disadvantages
in Australian conditions.
He found that F. C. Barton,
of Paynesville (Vic.), had suc-
cessfully joined bush-goats to
Angora bucks and, following
this example, introduced a
trial flock of 30 bush-goats at
Tanahmerah in 1952. The
results were encouraging, so in
1954 he selected 320 founda-
tion-does mustered from
station-country in western
N.S.W. These, with carefully
selected Angora sires, were
the foundation of the present
Tanahmerah herd.
The second-cross progeny
now at Tanahmerah is prac-
tically identical with the pure
Angora in fleece-character —
in fact, the crossbred hair
seems brighter and more lus-
trous than pure mohair —but,
at the same time, the dis-
advantages of the pure breed
have been overcome.
Besides the goats, Smith has
a Poll Hereford stud, founded
in 1953, and based on the Cud-
geena and Ardno herds.
The property is a model of
self-sufficiency. All the out-
buildings, for instance, are
built from timber cut and
milled on the estate. A stone-
crushing plant has been
installed to handle the quartzite
cleared from the paddocks.
The buildings and outhouses
are protected from bushfires
by a sprinkler pipeline which
runs all round them.
Stately Homes
We went on to Mount
Pleasant, where we visited Sir
J. Stanley Murray’s Rosebank
Aberdeen Angus' Stud. Show-
ing four bulls and three cows
at the Royal, this stud con-
sists of approximately 170
head, comprising 110 breeding-
cows, four top sires (Terin-
allum Lancer, Terinallum
Vengeance, Wallah Flambeau
and Rosebank Lancer 4th) and
about 50 young bulls and
heifers.
Rosebank station, originally
taken-up by George Melrose
about 1843, passed to the Hon.
R. T. Melrose, who founded
the Aberdeen Angus stud in
1928. His nephew, Sir Stanley
Murray, chairman of the
Adelaide “News,” inherited
the property, which now
carries the name of Rosebank,
Ltd. The homestead, the main
portion of which was built
in 1855, is one of the historic
homes of South Australia.
Next stop ■ was at Lindsay
Park, Angaston, where Sir J.
Keith Angas (immediate past-
president of the R.A.H.S. and
present treasurer) and Lady
Angas entertained us to “sun-
downers.”
Civic Venture
We went on from there to
Nuriootpa, in the Barossa
Valley, where we dined at the
Community Hotel —an excel-
lent meal, accompanied by the
local wines—before going to
Angaston for ■an informal
reception given by the chair-
man of the Angaston District
Council (Councillor W.
Lehmann), councillors and
leading citizens. In the course
of the evening, we saw a film,
“Land of the Sleeping Giant,”
introduced by A. A. Wark,
secretary of Yalumba, telling
how Samuel Smith started the
Yalumba winery.
Space forbids more than a
passing mention of the
Barossa Valley and its varied
civic activities, which have
made it a focus for social study
throughout the world. Colonel
Light first visited the district
and named it Barossa after the
battlefield he must have known
in Spain. George Fife Angas
took-up 40,000 acres —on part
of which his descendants still
live —and brought out from
Germany many pious settlers,
who sought religious freedom
and whose descendants now
form the main population of
the valley. Ever since, the
district has been a place where
dreams come true. The latest
experiment—Nuriootpa’s incor-
porated community-centre —is
a highly successful example of
the ideas which have always
inspired- those who live in this
happy valley.
Anlaby
Next morning we set out for
historic Anlaby, which lies 10
miles north of Kapunda and


Wf
■i
’.v xs*>. > N^.
the home
of quality
Wines
ip®
* |,
SEPPELTSFIELD
has a tradition dating back over 100 years, renowned
for producing wines of unsurpassed quality,
for the enjoyment of all. Seppeltsfield is a blend
of the scientific and rustic, and is one of the most
beautiful and romantic wineries in the world.
Situated in the lush Barossa Valley, South Australia,
Seppeltsfield is the headquarters of the House of
Seppelt, which is proud to be playing a prominent
role in developing the popularity of Australian
Wines, both at home and overseas.
nOI
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE • SYDNEY •
BRISBANE • FREMANTLE
MELBOURNE
• LONDON
is the State’s oldest Merino
stud. The property was
acquired in 1839 by the Dutton
family, who established it as
a sheep-station only three years
after the foundation of the
colony of South Australia.
Present general-manager for
the family is John H. Dutton,
whose father, in 1909, was the
first man to drive a motor-car
from Adelaide to Darwin.
Some months ago, John and
Geoffrey Dutton and Jim
Gosse repeated the marathon-
trip in the same Talbot car —
taking a fortnight for the
journey as against three months
for the original venture.
When F. H. Dutton founded
the Anlaby stud-Merino flock
in 1839 he bought 4000 ewes
from Mr. Howe and 1000
from Mr. Stuckie, both of
Yass (N.S.W.). These ewes
were mated to Stieger rams and
walked across N.S.W. to
Anlaby. H. H. Dutton in-
herited the flock in 1908, and
in 1932 it was transferred to
Mrs. E. Dutton, the present
owner.
Rambouillet blood was intro-
duced in the early days, and
later Murray blood from
Mount Crawford and Cappee-
dee ; then North Bungaree and
Bungaree rams were used. A
Poll Merino stud was estab-
lished in 1955 on Flairville
and Anama blood. The stud
at present comprises 1500 ewes
and 150 Poll-mated ewes ; it
aims at producing a big,
heavy-cutting type of medium-
strong-wool Merino.
We debussed in the stable-
yard, which might have been
that of a Shropshire manor-
house 1 know, and at our
request John Dutton started-
up the famous Talbot —it
never fails —and drove it
round the yard. Then we
moved to the woolshed, where
once they used to shear 70,000
sheep a year, employing 23
shearers —now it’s 9000, with
six men only.
From there we came back
to morning-tea in the new
homestead and then were
invited to see the old house.
In the great library, talking to
Mrs. E. Dutton and Josephine
Heysen, granddaughter of Sir
Hans, I felt again the calm of
that great house I know
12,000 miles away. The
impression was deepened
when we passed through a hall,
where oars hung on a wall,
inscribed with the badge of a
certain Oxford college, and a
stag’s head carried cricket-caps
of the English pattern and a
couple of helmets, which could
have originated nowhere but
with the Oxford constabulary.
We went to watch a demon-
stration of aerial crop-spraying
and then, to my personal
regret, said good-bye to this
part of an older Australia.
Seppeltsfield
After lunch at Seppeltsfield,
with an assortment of the wines
and sausages for which the
Barossa Valley is famous, we
visited the winery and saw the
process by which wine is
made. The founder was
Joseph Ernst Seppelt, who
arrived in Australia in 1849
with the idea of growing
tobacco. The tobacco didn’t
mature well, but some vines
he had planted came to bear-
ing and the first grapes were
processed in Mrs. Seppelt’s
dairy, a cellar which still
exists under the present
Seppeltsfield office.
Since its beginning, the
house of Seppelt has become
the largest winemaking firm
of its kind owned by a single
family. Chateau Tanunda was
acquired in 1916 and Great
Western Champagne cellars in
1918, other cellars later. Now
the fourth generation is on the
job, and, with the know-
ledge and experience of a cen-
tury behind it, is achieving the
aim of higher quality and
greater production.
Newbold
From Seppeltsfield we went to
the Newbold studs at Gawler
River, owned by W. J. Dawkins
and his family. Descended from
the first pioneer-family to-settle
in the Gawler River district
the Dawkins came from War-
wickshire and, on first arrival,
decided that the outlook from
their property was almost the
same as that across Newbold
Common in the Old Country,
hence the name —Dawkins is
regarded as one of Australia’s
foremost studmasters. His
studs of Dorset Horn and
Poll Dorset sheep, Poll Short-
horn cattle and Border Collie
dogs are situated 23 miles
north of Adelaide. Newbold
has had only lin. of rain since
Easter—they prayed for rain
and perhaps, when they got a
meagre fall the other day,
forgot to say “Thank you”
(that's the explanation offered
by Don Barkley, one of Daw-
kins’s sons-in-law, who deals
with the Poll Shorthorn stud!).
It was the Poll Shorthorns
we first looked-over. Don
Barkley explained how one of


LANAC JERSEY STUD
presents
Belmont Daffodil 4th
the last and final Jersey Island cow
to be imported into Australia
A bull from this cow, imported in dam and
bred from a 100% imported highland bull,
will be retained for use in the stud.
G. O'HALLORAN GILES
LANAC JERSEY STUD,
MOUNT COMPASS, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
the top sires, Lynwood
Blender, is a complete
dehorner. (The other is Cere-
monious Discovery). Barkley
believes that if breeders go on
putting horn on poll, the breed
will never progress, so he
advocates mating poll with
poll; in his opinion, double
polls are the answer. At the
Royal they are showing four
bulls and three heifers.
We moved to the sheep-stud.
Newbold, closed since 1948,
has come to be recognised as
one of the leading Dorset
Horn studs in the world.
Newbold sheep won the
grand-champion Dorset Horn
ram and Poll-Do rset ram
awards at the Diamond
Jubilee Sheep Show in Sydney.
Yearly stud-stock sales are
held on the property and have
become so popular that other
S.A. breeders have followed
suit and started sales in the
same week, which has become
known as the S.A. Sheep Sale
Week. The W. J. Dawkins
Trophy for a bare machine-
shorn ram is well known ; the
object may not be completely
recognised—it is to produce
the best conformation for the
purpose of the breed ; that is,
for carcass.
With this background, no
wonder the demonstration
given by Jack Reddin—Daw-
kins’s other son-in-law, who is
in charge of the sheep-stud—
was well staged and faultlessly
explained. The main points
made and stressed were that
the Dorset breed —horn or
polled—is a carcass-breed, not
dual-purpose, and that, as far
as the carcass goes, it’s the
hindquarters that count. New-
bold is showing 20 sheep
altogether at the Royal.
Thanks to the Shell people,
the R.A.H.S., civic authorities,
farmers and graziers and
everybody who participated in
this memorable tour, we were
able to see a great deal in a
comparatively short time.
What we saw was enough to
show the potential of South
Australia and, because this
State is only one part of the
Commonwealth, of the primary
production of Australia as a
whole.
That’s where these annual
tours have their greatest value.
They give a composite descrip-
tion of the wealth of this
continent and, studied over-
seas, induce interest and
investment in Australia.
Seed-treatment
“Billjim”: Seed - treatment
is a cheap and simple way of
preventing faulty germination
or disease. Describing this
operation, I. S. Rogers and
W. J, Baskett, two South Aus-
tralian research - officers,
emphasise that vegetable-
growers can save hundreds of
pounds an acre by preventing
crop-failures.
Generally, hot water will
control such seed - borne
diseases as black - leg of
cabbages and mosaic of
tomatoes, while chemical treat-
ment protects against soil-
borne diseases which rot young
seedlings.
The hot - water treatment
calls for no more than a large
container and an accurate
thermometer. Put no more
than lib. of the seed in a
muslin or thin-cloth bag and
immerse it in 3 gals, to 4 gals,
water. The bags must be
moved continuously to help
keep the temperature even. As
the temperature drops, add
boiling water. Even better, use
an electric immersion-heater,
with the water-container en-
closed in a box insulated with
wood-shavings or straw.
Time and temperature
depend on the kind of seed
being treated. Dry the seed
as rapidly as possibly in the
shade—never in direct sun-
light. Don’t treat seed more
than two years old, as the risk
of reducing germination is
high.
Fermentation - extraction is
used to control bacterial
canker, mosaic and streak in
tomato-seed. The fruit is
pulped and allowed to ferment
for three or four days in a cool
place. If the temperature rises
above 70 deg. F., reduce the
period by two or three days to
offset the risk that the seed
may not germinate.
After fermentation, wash
the seed and dry quickly.
Acid - extraction is even
/quicker. Add 1 fl. oz. con-
centrated hydrochloric-acid to
the pulp for each 51b. ripe
tomatoes. Thoroughly mix
this brew, and allow it to stand
for three hours, stirring at
intervals. After treatment,
force water into the mixture
under pressqre and then pour-
off the water and pulp. Repeat
the washing-process until the
seeds are clean ; then separate
the seed by straining it through
muslin and dry it in the shade,
spreading it thinly on news-
paper. Wooden or glass con-
tainers should be used for this
process.
Four types of chemical
treatment are available. Mer-
curic-chloride is used as a wet
soak at a concentration of . one
part by weight to 1000 parts of
water by weight (loz. to
6|gals.). Dissolve the required
amount in a little hot water
and dilute to its correct
strength by adding cold.
Loosely enclose the seed in a
muslin bag and deposit in the
solution for the time recom-
mended. Gently knead the
bag immediately after immer-
sion to allow the solution to
penetrate; then thoroughly
wash the seed in running cold
water while it is still in the
bag, and dry it by laying it
out as soon as possible.
A specially prepared form
of Thiram (TMTD) is also
useful, but should not be used
for seed that is to be sown
through a drill unless 2oz.
graphite is added for each
bushel to prevent the seed
jamming in the drill. Spergon
(TCPB) is on a par with
Thiram, but has the advantage
of being a lubricating agent,
which Thiram isn’t. Copper-
oxychloride is used by many
tomato-growers with good
results.
There are 22 diseases of
tomatoes, cabbages, cauli-
flowers, sprouts, peas, onions,
cucumbers, melons, marrows
and pumpkins which can be
controlled by seed-treatment.
Whichever treatment is pre-
ferred, it should be followed
by dusting with Thiram or
copper-oxychloride to prevent
rotting.
The need for these treat-
ments, the two S.A. experts
stress, will be minimised if
wide rotation of susceptible
crops is practised. Remember,
too, that overcrowding of seed-
lings favors the spread of
disease.
Crosscut
“Oldomo": Boards set-up
to control the programme for
destruction of rabbits have
ordered complete removal of
all fallen timber, hollow
stumps and trees. Perhaps this
suits their purpose ; but what
about heavy rains sending
water down the slopes with a
clear run when the timber is
cleared away? It seems to me
that, in trying to get rid of
the rabbit, these boards may be
saddling the man on the land
with the problem of still greater
soil-erosion.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin" will send one
on its way.


:
Q/fi y h s
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
BARBED WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
**«"" ~ -* few'
ggsi
IMlWMii^'
£i|fl p jfi gl
' ''l -
f^TWk
i> %v>.'.. s V <v.r^*>vA
- ■„;,*. #V ;f; f';%?•s:s» %'& { *4
fjr<j<r : Vv'»*F' Aj&y7
gp^P
/ ‘-?i &3fc!>B&ss&
'■&£&*< J
\£«•.s<**
•;-V > A '
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BRISBANE ROYAL
Queensland’s first century
came to an appropriate
and spectacular climax at
Brisbane’s Royal Centenary
Show, which ended on August
122.
The Show portrayed the
isolid development of the State's
great livestock industries and
Correct feeding during
the six to eight months
period, beginning six
to eight weeks before
the ewe is due to lamb
—will increase a sheep’s
production at least 20%.
The wool follicles begin
producing fibres in this
six-months period and
since no more come
into production after
six months of age, it is
essential that the food
for both ewe and lamb
is good in quality and
quantity. As wool is
a pure protein content,
it follows that the pro-
tein content of the feed
is most important.
Of vital importance,
too, are the methods
used when Castrating,
Tailing and Marking.
The use of the Elas-
trator Rubber Rings is
strongly recommended
for these operations as
an effective safeguard
against lamb losses
caused by fly-strike, set-
back and other diseases.
the achievements of its stock-
breeders and agriculturists who
exhibited animals and other
products of the land which, in
numbers and general standard
of quality, have never been
excelled in an Australian show-
ring. As G. E. Green, Royal
National Association president,
told Princess Alexandra, it was
undoubtedly the greatest exhi-
bition of livestock ever staged
in this country.
“This centenary,” the Prin-
cess said in opening the Show,
“is a time to stand back a little
and see the whole in truer pro-
portion. The bright colors you
see when you brush away the
dust of the day’s labor are the
reaj, colors. You have drawn
together here the best that the
skills of field and factory can
produce, and made of it a
single picture... .But in dis-
playing your country to your
guests, you have also held up
a mirror to yourselves ; and
in it you can see you are greater
than you know.”
She added: “You have come
a long way since 1859. This
was a tough country, but you
have mastered it, and here is
the evidence of your mastery.”
The State’s present riches had
been wrung by courage and
endurance out of the trackless
wilderness of a century ago, the
Princess said. It had been done
in defiance of drought and
hurricane, pestilence and
famine and the loneliness that
was the common lot of
pioneers.
Stud-beef Triumphs
A brilliant start was given
to the show in the stud-beef
cattle judging. Foremost studs
of all the eastern States
brought out teams, and inter-
state judges praised their
standard. Even with the record
turnout of cattle, there was
little evidence of a quality tail
in any of the major breeds —a
feature which greatly im-
pressed the judges. Many of
the big championship decisions
went to Queensland exhibitors.
For the second year in suc-
cession Poll Herefords had the
biggest numbers. The 190 ex-
hibits of the breed established a
new record for an Australian
Show. The judge, J. W.
Williamson, of Bowral
(N.S.W.), praised the excep-
tionally large number of good-
quality cattle in the bull
classes, and said that the
younger classes were particu-
largely strong. Top cattle
showed a definite even type, for
which most breeders were
striving.
R. and L. Fahl, of Sandal-
wood, Meandarra (Q.), paraded
the senior champion bull,
Sandalwood Gay Mischief,
which went on to grand
champion. They also brought
out the junior-champion bull,
Sandalwood Sid Mischief.
A good showing of Here-
fords faced the judge, R. L.
McEachern, of Strathdownie
(Vic.), who said that this was
his 17th visit to the Brisbane
Royal, and that the breed’s
improvement over that period
was tremendous.
The senior and grand
champion bull of the breed was
the September, 1958, Bexley
Debator, which made his first
Show appearance for his'
owners, Hays Brothers, of
Bexley, Narrabri (N.S.W.).
This bull is full of breed
character with a good head
and outlook, and tons of sub-
stance. Reserve senior cham-
pion was Fenwick Brothers’
Myall Supreme 2nd, which was
senior champion at this year’s
Sydney Show.
Shorthorn numbers were up,
said the judge, M. Montgomery,
of Albury (N.S.W.), who con-
sidered the grand-champion
bull, Coonong Event, one of
the best bulls he had seen in
any show-ring. Coonong Event
went on to the grand cham-
pionship after winning the
senior championship. His ex-
hibitor, C. Parker, of the Apex
Stud, Meandarra, bought him
for 1500gns. at the Coonong
dispersal-sale early this year.
Poll Shorthorns were judged
by R. W. Tindale, of Cler-
mont (Q.). On its first appear-
ance in a show-ring Russley
Hercules obtained senior and
grand championships for his
exhibitors, T. H. Fleming and
Sons, of Russley, Aberdeen
(N.S.W.). Tindale praised Her-
cules as an excellent specimen
and a typical breeding-bull.
M. F. White, of Scone
(N.S.W.), who judged the
Aberdeen-Angus entries, said
there were no outstanding top
bulls, but the fact that they
were without a quality tail
compacted the record showing
of the breed into an even lot
of general high merit. The
grand champion was Gibraltar
Keyline, shown by W. H. C.
Mayne and Sons, of Gibraltar,
Texas (Q.). This well-
developed bull, very thick and
deep, and magnificently fleshed,
is the type which could do much
for the breed in Australia.
King Ranch (Aust.) Pty.,
Ltd., of Risdon, Warwick (Q.),
showed a small but select team


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
Sydney's Most
Distinguished Hotel
Newly modernised and decorated
throughout, The Hotel Metropole is
fast becoming Sydney’s smartest and
most fashionable hotel. Right in the
heart of the city, the Hotel
Metropole offers you the comfort
and convenience of Australia’s
largest and friendliest hotel. Over
400 100 ms all with teleDhones and
hot and cold water (95 with private
bathroom), tuxi. ous ultra-modern
suites, 5 magnificent entertaining
rooms, swift, efficient room service
and a really fine dining room and
cellar.
Yes, at the Hotel Metropole you’ll
receive truly wonderful hospitality
and service in the traditional
lelaxed and friendly atmosphere
that makes the Hotel Metropole
THE place to stay in Sydney.
Write today for colour folder.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
of Santa Gertrudis cattle. They
were the only exhibitors of a
breed which is making spec-
tacular progress.
Stud-bull Auctions
At the Show auctions values
for stud bulls, which reacted
sharply to the high prices for
fat cattle, were greatly in
excess of price-levels at the
1958 auctions. An aggregate
return of 161,690gn5. was
obtained for 284 bulls and 24
females, equal to an average of
525gns. a head. This compares
with 83,930gn5. obtained for
272 bulls and 21 females in
1958.
Highest price this year was
3100gns., paid for a Hereford
bull, Woodlands Eager, bought
by Ken Tomkins, of Stuart’s
Creek, Injune (Q.), and sold on
account of the Woodlands
Stud, Greenmount (Q.). Seven
Woodlands bulls realised
9800gns. and averaged 1400gns.
Herefords averaged 638Jgns.
a head for 75 bulls and three
females, and topped all breeds.
Poll Herefords followed with
an average of 555gns. for 86
bulls and seven females ; Poll
Shorthorns, 535gns. for 53
bulls and six females ; Short-
horns, 371gns. for 35 bulls and
three females ; Angus, 367ygns.
for 26 bulls and three females ;
Devons, 291 gns. for eight bulls
and two females.
Highest price for Poll Here-
fords, and the second-top price
of the Show-auction series, was
2800gns. obtained for this
year’s junior champion bull,
Sandalwood Sid Mischief. He
was purchased by the Tar-
woona Pastoral Co., Texas
(Q.). Poll Shorthorns sold to
2000gns., Shorthorns 900gns.
"It can't he a meteorite , Mum-I slept like a log
all night!"
(twice), Angus to 900gns., and
Devons 625gns.
Magnificent Fats
Commercial beef - cattle
owners brought to the Show
a huge entry of more than 700
head —almost double the 363
fats shown at Brisbane last
year.
A. H. Simpson (Brisbane)
and his associate-judge, E. S.
Playfair (Sydney), described
the fat cattle as a magnificent
lot. Simpson said they were
far ahead in quality and finish
of the beef-cattle sections he
had judged at Shows this year
at Sydney, Rockhampton and
Toowoomba. Reflecting a
marked improvement in breed -
ing, quality and finish over
past years, the exhibits pro-
vided a lesson to younger
breeders aspiring to perfect
their own herds, in order to
supply the requirements of the
meat-trade.
A feature of the fat-cattle
show was the large proportion
of purebred animals. But the
most pleasing aspect was that
about 90 per cent, of the
entries were poll cattle. Very
few horned beasts were shown.
Simpson said this was an im-
portant trend necessary to
reduce bruising of carcasses
and tearing of hides.
Decisions in the fat-cattle
section this year were a
victory for J. Sparkes, of
Lyndley, Jandowae (Q.). His
long string of wins included
three of the four championship
awards with Poll Herefords for
single-female exhibit, pen of
bullocks, and pen of females.
Sparkes repeated his great
1957 performance, when the
judge referred to him as “that
wizard of the cattle-game.”
The champion steer, a Here-
ford, shown by Mrs. N. P.
Wright, of Sylvan Lea, Jimbour
(Q.), is an outstanding beast
for its age, very smooth in
finish and particularly well-
grown.
Stud Dairy-cattle
The total 956 entries for
stud dairy-cattle was 212 up On
last year’s numbers. Despite
restrictions on the number of
animals breeders could enter
in certain classes, it was one of
the largest displays of the five
dairy-breeds ever seen at Bris-
bane.
The day was a triumph for
Australian Illawarra Short-
horns. They were in recoid
numbers ahead of all breeds,
and the judge, A. Dunkley,
from Westralia, said this was
one of the grandest showings
of the breed yet seen in Aus-
tralia. Champion A.I.S. cow,
Cedar Valley Plumcott, was
entered by A. C. and C. R.
Marquardt, of Cedar Valley,
Wondai (Q.).
Not quite as many Jerseys
were shown as in 1958. The
judge was R. Watson Hewitt,
of A-lstonville (N.S.W.).
Rosallen Handsome secured
championship honors for her
breeder, J. F. Lau, of Rosallen,
Goombungee (Q.), for the
second year in succession.
Hewitt said the champion,
drawn from the aged-cow-in-
milk class, was typical of the
breed, showing high quality,
with a beautifully attached
udder, though a little faulty in
one tooth. The same exhibitor
also had the junior champion
female, Rosallen Loretta 2nd.
Ayrshire tops were of good
standard and the champions
would hold their own in the
best company, said S. G.
Muhlebach, of Batesford (Vic.),
who judged the exhibits.
Champion cow was Leafmore
Vestage 2nd, entered by Mrs.
P. M. Behr, of Harristown,
Toowoomba (Q.).
Guernseys were judged by
A. J. Clark, of Caniaba
(N.S.W.). The champion cow
was Rhodesleigh Tit - bit,
shown by A. H. Knopkem, of
Kingaroy (Q.). The judge said,
however, that the reserve-
champion, Cossartvale Em-
press, entered by A. B.
Fletcher, of Cossart, Boonah
(Q.), was an outstanding
animal, beaten for top honors
only because she was shown
dry, whereas the champion was
in milk.
Dairy-cattle Sales
Because large numbers of
dairy-cattle were slaughtered
this year for the lucrative North
American hamburger-trade, a
record level of values was
established at the Show’s stud-
dairy-cattle sales. Australian
Illawarra Shorthorns attracted
prices ahead of all other breeds.
The market for the popular
A. 1.5., with its high rnilk-yields,
was fully 50 per cent, dearer
than at the 1958 Show.
Brokers and breeders said
that this strong demand, especi-
ally for young bulls, was mainly
caused by the need to build
up herds after a heavy drain
on aged bulls and other stock
whiSh had been sold to “cash-
in” on high prices of dairy-
stock sold as boners and fats.
This trade had caused heavy
culling of ageing stock from a
lot of herds, resulting in
owners now seeking replace-
ments with younger bulls.
Top price for a bull was
305 gns., obtained by W. G.
Henschell, of Yarranvale,
Yarranlea (Q:), for Yarran-
vale Foreman. He was bought
by N. R. Potter, of Acton Vale,
Wellcamp (Q.). A record price
of 205gns. for-..a seven-month-
old Guernsey bull was paid by
E. A. Roy Wilson, of Lonely,
Goovigen (Q.), for Cossartvale
Monarch, which was reserve
junior champion.
Ram Sales
Merino-ram sales at the
Show established an average of


It’s NEWi It’s Unique!
.... it’s a rnceyt
fitted with the speedy *TILLITE f
Kerosene Pre-heater!
MODEL X 359
-jAf Lights in a minute. 5
No torch or bottle
required !
•fa Self-contained. The
“Tillite” uses kerosene
from the container!
■jAr The “Tillite” prevents
over-pumping—it acts
as a safety valve !
•jt It’s simple it’s fool-
proof— and that’s
dinkum !
3OO brilliant candle-
power light!
★ Stormproof—in fact
TILLEY I
ASK FOR IT AT YOUR STORE!
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores throughout Australia. In ease of
difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
108fgns. for 255 rams, which
made a total of 27,760gns. The
average last year was 72gns.
a head for 235 rams —a total
of 16,985gns.
This year’s top price was
2100gns. for a Haddon Rig
special stud ram, bought by
the Landsdowne Pastoral Co.
Pty., Ltd., Tambo (Q.).
Northman.
Orange Field-days
The 8th series of field-days,
organised by the Orange
branch of the Graziers’ Asso-
ciation and Orange farm-
machinery agents, will be held
on Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday, November 17, 18
and 19, at The Triangle, Ron
Gordon’s property, 2} miles
from Orange post-office, and
in C. H. Sommerville’s orchard
adjoining.
The aim of the field-days is
to give manufacturers of farm-
machinery and equipment a
chance of showing the per-
formance of their products in
comparative demonstrations.
Special features this year will
be a “1959 Award of Merit”
section for new implements, a
primary - producers’ welding-
competition and an award for
tractor-driving.
Fowl-ticks
“Pieter Nuyts”: When a
bird is restless and off its
tucker, with a high tempera-
ture and black, shrunken
comb, it probably has tick-
fever, and it may become
paralysed and die.
At any rate, if those symp-
toms show, it’s worth having
a look for ticks, which you’ll
have to do after dark, because
the pests are night-feeders and
hide in cracks and crevices or
between overlapping sheets of
iron during the day. They are
flat and only about £in. long,
so they don’t need much cover.
Before feeding, their color is
light-brown, but this changes
to deep-brown when they are
gorged. It’s easy to overlook
them, even during the closest
daylight inspection.
For part of their lives the
ticks actually remain on the
birds, though only for a few
days when they are about
1 / 16in. long. This is a
definite stage in their life-
cycle, which begins when each
tick emerges from its egg and
becomes a “seed” tick. It
makes its way by night to the
roosts, attaches itself to a
bird and gorges. After a few
days it drops to the ground,
crawls into a crack, sits pat
for some days while digesting
what it has taken from the
bird, and then moults. When
it emerges it has eight legs,
instead of its six as a “seed.”
Now it comes out to feed at
night.
Throughout their lives
these ticks can go without food
for long periods. Even while
growing, the young tick can
live without food for months
at a time ; a fully-grown tick
has been found alive years
after its last meal. Obviously
you can’t get rid of them by
keeping birds out of a shed
for a year or so.
The best time to fight the
ticks is when the sheds are
being built. All-metal sheds,
using angle-iron supports and
cross-pieces, are the best, but
they’re costly. If you can’t
run to them, use new timber,
but examine it carefully for
cracks and paint any you see
with tar. Remember, ticks
don’t need much room: build
so there’s a minimum of pro-
tection for them. Perches
suspended by wire are a big
help.
You’ll find ticks in places
where you mightn’t expect
them. I’ve seen them on a
station out near the Warbur-
ton Ranges (W.A.), where the
homestead chooks roosted in
a dead tree. The chooks
favored the outer branches —
no doubt trying to escape the
tick, which found ample
harbor in the tree —and,
although they had developed
an immunity to tick-fever, their
laying must have been seriously
affected by the irritation and
loss of rest. New birds
brought in from the coast
seldom lasted more than a
month or so.
Ticks were almost certainly
introduced into that area by
wild birds, and that’s another
point worth remembering, par-
ticularly if you’re building
your sheds with bush timber.
The fact that domestic poultry
have never been kept there
before doesn’t give you any
guarantee of freedom. These
ticks can, and do, live on
cage-birds, practically all wild
birds, and even cattle. I’m
almost certain I’ve found them
on kangaroos. So if you’re
using bush timber be careful
where you select it, and be
liberal with tar.
If ticks are already in your
shed, it could pay to burn it
down. Certainly burn all
litter, straw and nests. If you
retain the shed, spray with
3 per cent, malathion —and
spray thoroughly, soaking the
shed inside and out. A 99.9 per
cent, killing isn’t good enough.
Each female-tick lays close on
100 eggs, so if one gravid
female is left, in no time you’re
back where you started.
You’ve got to kill every tick
on your property.
Cotton
“Oldomo”: Lately I read in
a North Coast (N.S.W.) paper
that an acre of cotton had
been grown near Kyogle. This
was claimed to be the first
cotton grown on the North
Coast.
I can’t give full details after
so many years, but in the early
1920’s men visited farms in
the Richmond River district
and gave seed to any farmer
who would grow an acre of
cotton. It was said that the
intention was to erect a plant
at Lismore which would buy
all cotton produced. A number
of farmers sowed the seed and
harvested the crop; but no
buyers came, so it was wasted.
An acre of cotton, grown
on rich creek-flats about a
mile below Nimbin, did well
and cropped heavily, with
good-length fibre. There were
no diseases or insect-pests to
harm it. The farmer and hisi
family harvested and bagged
the crop, and that, as far as
I know, was the end of it.
All the same, there are
hundreds of acres on the far
North Coast that would grow
splendid cotton.
Immunity to Dieldrin
“Big Billy”: Following the
example of the common house-
fly with D.D.T., the blowfly
has now built-up immunity to
dieldrin, which is widely used
as a jet against strike.
R. C. Jeffries, adviser on
animals in South Australia,
says that now landholders may
have no alternative but to turn
to diazinon ; he suggests, how-
ever, that possibly this growing
immunity isn’t the only factor
to be considered in jetting-
failures, and that jetting should


start thedat) right!
*****
Funniest Book since “The Specialist.”
"The Swishing Well"
(Based on Fred Hoinville’s Round-the-
World-Experiences)
3/- post free
To BROLGA P. 0., BOX 13,
ORMOND, VIC.
be supplemented with well-
tried preventive measures:
correct tail-length at marking ;
mulesing either at marking or
weaning; at least one crutch-
ing a year.
These measures alone will
ensure less than 1 per cent, of
strike in the crutch and tail-
area. Jetting is only a follow-
up, which, carried-out care-
fully, could ensure a flock free
from trouble.
N.S.W. Agricultural
Bureau Congress
'T'he congress lately concluded
at the Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College laid emphasis
on pasture-management, on the
threat of synthetic fibres to
the wool-industry, and on the
new private Farm Advisory
Services. Although sheep-
farming seemed the main con-
sideration, the discussion could
be applied to many other types
of farming.
Opening the congress,
T. W. L. Mac Dermot, High
Commissioner for Canada,
spoke of how Canada and Aus-
tralia had developed along
parallel lines ; they could, he
said, learn much from each
other. He emphasised parti-
cularly the value of Canada’s
Federation of Farmers (repre-
senting all farmers there) and
of the National Farm Radio,
a system of group-discussions
served by special radio-pro-
grammes.
The Farrer Oration was
given by Dr. R. J. Noble,
whose subject was “Agricul-
ture and the United Nations.”
The objective of the Food and
Agriculture Organisation of
the U.N., he said, is promotion
of higher standards of living
through increased efficiency in
production and distribution of
the products of farms, fisheries
and forests of the world.
There might be some truth
—he went on—in the idea that
increased efficiency will lead to
more difficulty in disposal of
surpluses, but only on a short-
term basis. In the long run the
problem of distribution must
be solved so that more than
half the people of the world
will not, as at present, suffer
from an inadequate and unbal-
anced diet. When undernour-
ished peoples gain a better
standard of living they buy
higher quality foods, chiefly
more and better proteins. This
might mean a bigger demand
for Australian livestock, but it
also implies that we should be
ready, in the interests of inter-
national peace and under-
standing, to supply the better
foods these people need.
Although chemists may be
able to produce some kind of
synthetic protein, Dr. Noble
said, there are many things we
have yet to discover about the
good qualities of natural foods.
Extension of pasture-improve-
ment will require a much
bigger supply of phosphate
fertilisers, and there should be
enough high-grade phosphates
obtainable from the Pacific and
Indian Oceans for the remain-
der of this century. After that
there should be plenty from
other sources, though they are
likely to be dearer and not so
good.
The immense possibilities in
the expansion and improve-
ment of Australian agriculture
show the advantages, obtained
from education and experience.
Yet less than 200 students
graduate each year from State
agricultural colleges and only
a fraction of these go on the
land. No secondary industry
of comparable size could hope
to thrive on a similar rate of
training and preparation for
management. Dr. Noble thinks
that the most promising source
of training for agriculture is
the provision of more special
schools, congresses and similar
gatherings for exchange of
information.
“Progress may be slow,” he
said, “especially in the inter-
national field, but the impor-
tant thing is that there is pro-
gress, and we must do every-
thing we can to maintain and
accelerate this.”
On the subject of “The
Whole Farm,” J. N. Douglas,
consultant of the Bombala
District Rural Advisory
Service, said that a farmer,
like an architect, must consider
the piece of land to be worked
and must plan to exploit its
natural advantages and limit
its disadvantages.
Speaking about fencing, he
said that subdivision is basic
to good farm-management. A
good rule is to put on 30 to
50 sheep to the acre, graze a
paddock in between two and
four weeks, then change.
Speaking of water-supplies,
he suggested that it’s often
worth putting up with a few
dry paddocks at first until a
good central supply of water
piped to all paddocks can be
arranged, rather than digging
dams in every paddock.
Numbers of small dams occupy
a great deal of space and add-
up to a great deal of expense.
Douglas considers the weak-
est point in the grazing industry
is the general low level of the
quality of stock. He described
how flock-testing could weed-
out the. unproductive blood-
lines. It was found that some
animals simply did not have
the physical or genetic ability
to produce as well as others,
and these lines must be found
by grading and measuring the
wool and meat produced by the
breeding-females. The first
objective must be the maxi-
mum production a head of
stock, then the maximum to
each acre of land.
P. C. Druce, Principle Econ-
omics Research Officer, N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture,
speaking about “Budgeting for
Successful Development,” said
that the essential requirement
for successful budgeting is
accurate information, which
may come from many sources
—technical information, local
experience, market - reports,
weather-information. If facts
are not available an expert’s
opinion is much better than no
information at all. The best
information comes from
accurate records of the opera-
tion of the farm itself—rain-
fall-distribution, yields of crops
and pastures, performance of
machinery and costs of its
operation. Keeping in touch
with world-wide development
being too big a task for most
farmers by themselves, he
recommended Farm Advisory
Services as centres for collect-
ing information and making it
available.
H. E. B. Shaw, vice-president
of the Bombala District Rural
Advisory Committee, said the
service was formed in 1956 as
a group of 34 graziers within
the shire of Bibbenluke, whose
aim was to improve their own
properties and to stimulate
agricultural improvement with-
in the district as a whole. An
agricultural consultant —Noel
Douglas, formerly agronomist
of the Agricultural Depart-
ment —was appointed and
headquarters established in
office-premises with a compe-
tent secretary.
Present membership is 42,
and many others seek member-
ship from up to 70 miles away.
They have ideas of having a
veterinary service, and they are
now doing some merchandising
in seeds, stock-medicines, etc.
It is important not to let the
trading become too big a
feature, as it encroaches on the
advisory service, which is much
more important. The area and
the membership must be kept
small, otherwise the service wfll
do little but feed the petrol-
companies. The Department of
Agriculture, the C.5.1.R.0., the
Bureau of Agricultural Econ-
omics and everybody else con-
cerned had been most helpful.
As well as being sound
financially, this service had
resulted in breaking-down the
isolation of members of the
group. They had become much
more ready to discuss problems
with each other and to
exchange information.
N. J. Douglas, the Bombala
farm-adviser, said that often
the man on the land was
inclined to carry on his
business by traditional methods
which had been successful in
the past. Traditional forms
were worth looking at, but only
if we know why things were
done that way. They may not
necessarily be true now,
because the reasons for those
methods may no longer exist.
The professional adviser might
be defined as a catalyst, bring-
ing about the union of under-
standing and practice, which,
far too often, have been found
to have nothing, or very little,
in common.
Irrespective of the excellence
and concentration of extension-
services, he added, the demand
for private advisory services is
growing. They have been in
operation in America since
World War I. The Doane
service now employs a staff of
over 100. In New Zealand their
spread has been rapid, despite
the fact that the Government
extension-service is recognised
as the best and most efficient
in the world. There was no
reason why such private
{Continued on page 65)


Keyline Comment
"Keyline in- Australia is the most interesting development in world
agriculture.” —Sir lan Clunies-Ross.
TIE above comment by the late chairman of C.5.1.R.0.
and the comments which follow present a cross-section
of what thinking men and women have said about
Keyline.
Ranging from cautious to enthusiastic and, in point of
time, from the first public recognition of Keyline in 1955 to
a few weeks ago, the comments come from people with a
variety of experience: geographers, a banker, a Professor of
Agriculture, a medical scientist with a special interest in
nutrition and soil health, an agronomist, the manager of one
of Australia’s largest abattoirs, an editor, farmers and graziers;
and from such hard-to-classify—because of the wide field of
their interests —figures as Lady Eve Balfour, Dr. G. B. S.
Falkiner and John Darling.
Lady Eve Balfour, for instance, is Field Director of the
Soil Association, an international research and educational
organisation, but is also a practical farmer; Dr. Falkiner,
President of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Association and
owner of the famous Haddon Rig Merino stud, has a scientific
background ; and John Darling, a director of the flour-milling
firm of that name established by his great-grandfather, is a
son of one of the founders of the Waite Institute and is also
a grazier.
The majority of comments by public figures have been
published before ; as, for instance, that of Sir lan Clunies
Ross, made after his return from a world tour, and Lady
Eve Balfour’s, made during her Australian tour in 1959. But
many comments by farmers and graziers, culled from a grow-
ing file, are printed here for the first time. Some day this mass
of evidence on Keyline-in-the-field will be properly, weighed
and measured, for national reasons. In the meantime, this
collection of opinion and results is provocative of thought. It
is strong prima facie evidence, at least, that Keyline is the
answer to the No. 1 problem of agriculture today—how to
increase production economically.
Anyone who has carefully considered these comments will
probably want to know more about Keyline. We suggest
writing to Angus and Robertson, Sydney, for a copy of The
Challenge of Landscape, by P. A. Yeomans, the latest authori-
tative work on the subject. The price is 795. 6d., and a special
discount is available for educational establishments.


Good Soil Won't Erode
By PROFESSOR JAMES MACDONALD HOLMES
[Professor of Geography, University of Sydney.]
The following article was written in
reply to criticism of some aspects of
Keyline, as reported in an earlier article
in “People,” and was published in that
magazine July 22, 1959. Reprinted here
with the permission of Professor Holmes
and “People.”
KEYLINE farming is sound in
theory and practice. That is the
considered opinion not only of
myself but of many scientists from
England and the United States whom I
have taken to inspect the properties of
P. A. Yeomans.
The study of soil as the loose covering
of the earth’s surface and the end-point
of denudation has been my profession
for more years than I care to think
about, and I can say from a close
acquaintance with Yeomans’ work that
he probably knows more about soil con-
servation than anyone else in Australia.
By 1946 he had completed a wide pro-
gramme of orthodox soil-erosion pre-
ventive works on his own properties with
his own machines. It was not until that
year that the Soil Conservation Service of
New South Wales, the oldest of these
bodies in Australia, first acquired its own
machinery for soil-conservation work.
Since then Yeomans has made an
intensive study of soil conservation in
Australia and overseas and as a result he
is of the firm opinion that orthodox
soil-conservation theory and practice
must be greatly changed because the
theory is wrong in principle and the
practices are too slow and too costly.
He is equally sure that his Keyline
system will supersede the orthodox
system, which was based largely on
American thinking, and which, he be-
lieves, is in many ways unsuited to Aus-
tralian application.
Agricultural Architecture
Keyline is to agricultural land what
planned architecture is in another field.
In essence it is a broad system of land-
scape planning, aimed at making per-
manent the land surface.
From this it naturally follows that as
the shape of land is a soil shape, Keyline
places great emphasis on the development
of the only type of soil that will not
erode—a highly fertile soil.
We can see the logical nature of Key-
line, which, starting with a knowledge
of climate and land shape, develops a
completely new type of farming land-
scape, with proper regard to the control
and use of water, the relationship of
farm roads and trees, paddock size and
fencing, right through to the soil with its
planning aids and its development.
Soil conservation experts were quoted
in the “People” article on Keyline
(March 4) as sceptical that only water,
air and sun are required for healthy plant
growth in any soil. While Yeomans
insists that climate is the main influence
in the development of fertile soil (and
therefore Keyline techniques which im-
prove soil-climate have been designed
and constructed to be both effective and
economical), nowhere does he advocate
not using artificial fertilisers.
But he does make a strong case that,
in general, artificial fertilisers are used
incorrectly and thus wastefully. In par-
ticular, he has shown that a least some
poor land can be developed into rich
soil and high-carrying pastures without
the use of artificial fertilisers.
“Trigger Element”
He also points out that this type of
development takes longer, and he there-
fore recommends use of some artificials
as trigger elements for starting off in
poor soil what he calls his soil-develop-
ment programme.
There is no argument in Keyline
against the use of trace elements such
as molybdenum, zinc, copper, or the use
of lime-pelleted seeds and rhizolium
inoculations. These aids have a per-
fectly logical place, as Yeomans explains
fully in his new book, The Challenge of
Landscape.
In this book Yeomans tells that every
aspect of Keyline has been re-thought
and put into practice on three new
properties. Keyline was developed on
undulating country, true, but the appli-
cation is universal.
While there may be room for disagree-
ment with Yeomans’ ideas on cultiva-
tion, or even with his use of a particu-
lar type of fertiliser and seeds for pas-
ture, these are techniques which naturally
can be varied according to local climate.
But the principles of Keyline remain
constant.
New Scientific Discovery
Soil conservation experts who claim
there is nothing new in determining the
keyline at the break of slope in valleys
and say this method has been practised
in New South Wales for 20 years are
wrong.
Quite the contrary is true. The Key-
line principle, as it applies to cultivation
for water control and distribution, is a
new scientific discovery.
Geographers like myself and others
who have visited Yeomans’ properties,
such as Professor Debenham, of Cam-
bridge, a geographer for 25 years, and
Dr. S. Dudley Stamp, Professor of
Social Geography at London University
(and adviser on rural development to
the British Department of Agriculture
and Fisheries) regard the Keyline dis-
coveries as an outstanding example of
applied geography and, as such, worthy
of careful study.
Undoubtedly the Soil Conservation
Service has done good work against soil
erosion, but because this is so there is no
need to reject a better method, par-
ticularly when many of the existing
methods have become obsolete. In any
case, we have listened far too much to
American ideas on conservation. It is
time we did some rethinking of our own.
Flood Control
Soil conservation authorities who deny
that Yeomans’ Keyline planning could
control the flood problems of the Hunter
Valley would do well to make a study
of Keyline. These devastating floods
are caused by rains which rarely exceed
lOin. Yet on Yeomans’ own Keyline-
developed properties the same rain is
easily contained within the soil and the
dams.
Keyline, widely applied, can make a
major contribution to flood control.
It seems that some people, wishing to
belittle Keyline, dismiss it as just another
part of soil conservation work, when in
fact it is a totally different approach to
the problems of land, and is complete in
itself. Unfortunately, such an attitude
could delay the great good the wide appli-
cation of Keyline must do for Australia.
From an A.B.C. Feature
"THE LAND AND ITS PEOPLE"
Mr. John Douglass (Director of
Rural Broadcasts): It has been put to
me that the Keyline Plan is a long-term
time-payment sort of proposition—in
other words, we don’t expect to get any
returns within a year ; it most probably
mightn’t pay for five years. Do you
think, with the declining wool and wheat
markets and one thing and another, that
we could, as a nation or as an individual,
invest money in this sort of business?
Mr. C. R. McKerihan (President of
the Rural Bank of New South Wales):
Yes. I don’t think your simile is a good
one, because you’re making time-payment
into something which is a depreciating
asset. Here is just the contrary. You’re
putting in something which is going to
undoubtedly increase your asset and give
you a greater return, a greater produc-
tion, and that should be the aim of each
and every one who is on the land.


A COMPARISON
“The two outstanding methods of con-
trolling floods are the Small Watersheds
Development, in the United States, and
Keyline, in Australia.
“The Small Watersheds Development
will completely stop floods in their own
areas and, since this is their sole object,
they must be considered successful.
Economically, too, they compare favour-
ably with other large-scale schemes for
flood mitigation. But, apart from pro-
tection from flood damage, there is no
direct return to the individual farmer.
Therefore the cost cannot be borne
entirely by landowners-on the protected
area, and has to be spread over the
community as a whole. The dams of
from 60 acre-feet to 1000 acre-feet are
water-retaining structures designed to
release water at a controlled rate so as
not to cause over-topping of the stream
bank within a certain specified distance
downstream.
“This released water is, in an agri>
cultural sense, wasted. No great matter,
perhaps, in areas of abundant rainfall,
but a serious factor in Australia where,
despite the occasional serious damage
from an excess of water, the overall prob-
lem is not enough water.
“Keyline, as has been demonstrated
on a number of properties, will conserve
all the water that it is logical and profit-
able to conserve, and incidentally control
floods.
“It is not generally realised that under
Australian conditions a reduction of
run-off by a few inches can mean the
difference between benefit and disaster.
For instance, one of the worst floods in
the Hunter River Valley—in February,
1955 —was caused by an average fall
over the catchment area of 10 inches.
But this gave a total flow past Maitland
of \\ million acre-feet in five days.
“I believe that during the same period,
on Keylined land at North Richmond,
14 inches fell without run-off. On the
sixth day there was a fall of another eight
inches, and run-off, but the water was
clear.
“However, in Keyline, flood control
fits into a larger pattern of landscape
development. Water is stored on indi-
vidual properties, firstly, in the soil, for
the benefit of the soil and, secondly, in
strategically placed irrigation dams. The
return from, for instance, irrigated pas-
ture, is direct and almost immediate.
“So the finance needed to make a par-
ticular area flood-free can be made avail-
able by way of loan to individual
landowners, with the strong probability
of quick repayment. In terms of national
development this fruitful turnover of
capital could mean a great deal.” —Dr.
G. B. S. Falkiner, President, N.S.W.
Sheepbreeders’ Association, Haddon Rig,
Warren, N.S.W.
it it it
“Keyline now brings land planning for
maximum development and improvement
into the realm of the exact sciences.” —
Professor J. R. A. McMillan, Dean of
the Faculty of Agriculture, University of
Sydney.
4- V V
“Of the different sections in The
Challenge of Landscape, the one I like
most of all is that on dam construction
and siting—l have never met anything
half so practical and full of common-
sense as well as original ideas. Also I
was much impressed by the section on
high level small schemes versus the huge
dams so beloved by the public.”—
Professor Frank Debenham, Professor
Emeritus of Geography, Cambridge.
V
[Although Professor Debenham here
deals only with certain aspects of the
book, he has seen Keyline in operation,
and, as Professor Holmes indicated
earlier, has expressed opinions on the
principles involved. He has recently
written a book on surveying for farmers,
in which he deals with farm-surveying in
the Keyline context .]
Another Geographer’s View On
"THE CHALLENGE OF LANDSCAPE"
By PROFESSOR L. DUDLEY STAMP
Professor Emeritus of Social Geography,
University of London. Chief Adviser
in Rural Land use to the British Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries, 1943-1955.
THERE are fashions in science and
its application, as in most things,
and only the bolder spirits dare to
be so unfashionable as to ques-
tion the orthodoxy of the moment and
to look for progress along new lines
which may, on the one hand, be revo-
lutionary in relation to current practice,
but evolutionary in relation to develop-
ment of scientific knowledge.
The author of this book, Mr. P. A.
Yeomans, is a good example of a bold
pioneer spirit who has dared to oppose
orthodoxy, has given scientific justifi-
cation of his views, and who bases pre-
cept upon successful practice.
What he has done is in Australia,
what he has proved he has proved under
Australian conditions. This book in its
theory and practice relates entirely to
Australia, and there are two possibilities.
Either conditions in that island con-
tinent are so unique that they are not
repeated elsewhere in the world —which
we know to be manifestly untrue —or
else what Yeomans has shown to happen
in Australia is of wide application else-
where in the world.
One thing is abundantly clear, the time
is overdue for the Yeomans theories and
their results in practice to be known to
the world as a whole.
“Immense Possibilities”
To my mind the story is far too
important, far too full of immense possi-
bilities to world agriculture, to be denied
the fullest publicity. Some will say,
reading it, that here is the high priest of
a new religion: a missionary intent on
spreading the new gospel and damning
all heathens. I do not myself agree with
all his many strictures on existing prac-
tices and practitioners; I would not
regard all his claims as fully proved ; I
do not know how far the principles are
applicable under other climatic condi-
tions. But I am fully convinced of the
essential soundness of the main argu-
ments, unorthodox as some of them may
be.
After 10 years of work, The Keyline
Plan was published in 1954. As an
experienced Australian publisher pointed
out, one might sell 500 or even 700
copies of such a book if one were very
lucky. So Yeomans printed 10,000 and
the book is now out of print. The pre-
sent book is a more mature and wider
treatment of the whole subject.
Perhaps Keyline Plan is merely a catch
phrase, but it stems from the basic idea
that in a small valley there is a break
in slope from a relatively steep upper
course to a flatter lower course which
is a keypoint in the whole system of lay-
out and land management. Geomor-
phologists will recognise the significance
of the keypoint: it may or may not be a
knickpoint, but the Keyline Plan is
clearly a fascinating example of applied
geomorphology, though the author has
had to introduce his own terminology
for landscape features.
“World of the Soil”
The other crucial tenet of the Key-
line Plan is also in line with current
scientific thought. In his recent book,
The World of the Soil, Sir John Russell
has given a fascinating picture of the
soil as a world entirely on its own, with
its own structure and, particularly, its
own climate.
The ultramicroscopic organisms of the
soil live in a world of great caverns and
tunnels, to a large extent built up by
the larger denizens of the soil, such as
earthworms. From time to time intru-
sions from another world in the shape
of plant roots disturb the conditions of
the soil world: the application of some
fertiliser may cause wholesale destruc-
tion of the soil-people, or their multi-
plication may be encouraged by treat-
ment of a different nature.
Essentially the soil is a living whole
in which an inorganic framework is in
intimate relationship with its organic
inhabitants. Yeomans recognises • this
and develops what is really the biologi-
cal concept of the ecosystem. Soil organ-
isms breed fast, and so, he asks, what is
all this worry about soil which has


ANGUS AND ROBERTSON PTY. LTD.
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me a copy/ copies of “The Challenge of
Landscape.”
NAME
ADDRESS
Enclosed cheque/postal note for
taken centuries to form being swept
away in a couple of days?
This idea of an easy and rapid build-
ing up of the soil brings us to a differ-
ent concept of soil erosion and soil
conservation.
Put simply, there would not be a fertile
Egypt if it were not for erosion in the
mountains of Ethiopia, and the Nether-
lands would not exist but for the erosion
in the Alps.
As Yeomans rightly says, fertility ero-
sion precedes and is more serious than
soil erosion: the essential needs are to
build up fertility and to build up soil.
Of course, it is shattering to be told
that much so-called soil conservation is
quite unnecessary. It probably is.
V V #
“Keyline is perhaps the greatest con-
tribution to world agriculture of this
century.”— Lady Eve Balfour, Field
Director, The Soil Association.
* ☆ ☆
“The principle is one which strangely
enough has evaded a veritable army of
scientific workers and practical farmers
over the past 40 years.
“P. A. Yeomans is the founder and
driving force behind Keyline, and if it
succeeds, as I believe it will succeed, he
will have made a contribution to agri-
culture of the greatest magnitude.”—
E. J. Breakwell, M. Agr.Sc., Pastures
Adviser, Australian, Mercantile, Land
and Finance Co. Former Senior Lec-
turer, Agronomy, Sydney University.
& V V
“After all the gloomy prognostications
of the pioneers of soil erosion control —
Jakes and Wyte, Bennett and others—
it is with a feeling of relief and renewed
hope in national development that I
see the entry upon the scene of the
realistic and practical optimism of Key-
line.” — Sir C. Stanton Hicks, Professor
Emeritus, Human Physiology and
Pharmacology, University of Adelaide.
Scientific Food Consultant to Australian
A rmy.
“I have seen soil similar to this be-
fore, but it took over 20 years to make.
The big thing with Keyline is that it
only took three years.”— Sir C. Stanton
Hicks.
“My father often said that Australia
had everything except a good rainfall,
and what the country needed was a high
range of mountains down the centre of
the continent, so that we could get the
rain we needed. I regard Keyline as
that range of mountains.” John
Darling.
V V V
“The benefits of the Keyline technique
are available for all to see at Nevallan,
and it is no overstatement to say they
represent the greatest agricultural' revo-
lution this country has ever known.” —
Wallace Skelsey, Editor, “Queensland
Country Life.”
And here are some comments by
men who are making money out of
Keyline—a representative few of many
success stories. These people are all
Australians; but similar results have
been reported from a number of
countries.
“Using our modifications of the Key-
line Plan, carrying capacity was doubled
in one year, trebled in three.” —M. J.
Ross ( for Ross Brothers ), Shepherds
Creek, Mia Mia, Victoria.
V V V
“Everlastingly grateful to Keyline and
Graham Plow. Carrying capacity
doubled.”—J. H. Lyne. Westbury, Tas-
mania.
☆ ☆ ☆
“The first piece of land chosen was a
hillside piece of some seven acres. The
slope is not over-steep. Originally this
land had been set out in pasture furrows
at 6ft. vertical intervals. The land be-
tween furrows had been worked with a
6ft. tandem disc harrow following the
line of each contour furrow. However,
after heavy rain the water used to gather
in the valley and erode the banks and
the land between. Around Christmas
’55 I Keylined this area and plowed it
with the Graham. The night I finished
plowing we had a terrific storm which
produced some 12in. of rain. Next
morning, before milking, my wife and I
walked, all over it to see what was hap-
pening. The results were startling. Each
furrow was drifting water out away from
the valley and the water was perfectly
clear.” —C. y. Volp, Mudgeeraba,
Queensland.
# V V
“We are very pleased with the condi-
tion of the soil and pasture develop-
ment. We only have 500 acres at the
abattoir, and during 1958 we slaughtered
82,400 cattle, 253,108 sheep and lambs,
over 40,000 calves and 41,600 pigs. The
greatest percentage of the cattle and
sheep and lambs would pass through the
paddocks. It would be impossible to
give accurate figures regarding improved
carrying capacity but we do know that
there is a very considerable improve-
ment in the areas treated by the Keyline
system.”— E. Bell, General Manager,
Newcastle Abattoir Department.
V V V
“My Keyline cultivation is outstand-
ing. Carrying capacity increased three-
fold in the second year.”— Robert
Anderson, Monto, Queensland.
# #
“I have followed Keyline recommen-
dations for nearly three years. The
results show, beyond doubt, that Keyline
will work on this property without lime
or other fertilisers. Soil change has been
for the better on treated land. The soil
is not packed, and run-off is nil, even in
heaviest rain. The crops have done
better all round and I have noticed that
during droughty conditions there is better
growth and more moisture where Key-
line has been used than elsewhere. Pas-
ture has improved threefold.”—E. N.
Billing, Mathews Creek, Dorrigo,
N.S.W.
'# V V
“Depth of soil has doubled and there is
gbod absorption of rainfall. Fifteen
inches fell on a Keylined area of gently
sloping red and brown sandy loam soil
in a day and two nights and 12in. of rain
was absorbed before there was any
noticeable run-off. Surely this is remark-
able? There was also an excellent re-
growth of Green Panic after 12 months of
drought.” —F. A. Sweet, Cameby
Downs, Columboola, Queensland.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Our stock numbers have been
doubled and their health and fertility
has greatly improved. Our vealers,
totalling 450, topped the Casterton cattle
market. The Keyline Graham plowing,
assisted by ground rock phosphate, has
given very good results through higher
quality natural grasses and clovers.” —
John Paine, Exmoor, Casterton, Victoria.
☆ ☆ ☆
“We Keylined about 500 acres 12
months ago. There has been no second
cultivation as yet. The results so far
are greater depth of moisture and almost
no run-off. The pasture hangs on much
longer during dry spells.”—l. R. Bell
(for R. J. Bell and Son), Corona Merino
stud, Gilgandra, N.S.W.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Our Keylined hillsides were out-
standing—green when surrounding coun-
try was dry.”—R. C. Jennings and
Sons, Bibbenluke, N.S.W.


services could not succeed in
Australia.
W. M. Willoughby, of the
C.5.1.R.0., spoke of the
management of pastures to get
the best results with sheep.
His experiments had been
designed to test pastures and
their management by actually
using them to grow sheep, as
they would be used on a sheep-
property. In his opinion the
best method of management is
to extend the grazing-period, so
that the winter gap is filled
by growing pastures, which are
better than hay and also less
costly and less wasteful of feed.
By good management, a pro-
portion of the paddocks could
be held over as standing-
paddocks of fair-quality feed.
The right selection of plants,
with adequate fertiliser, would
give the best growth possible
in winter. Grasses grow better
than clovers in winter, and
give less infertility trouble.
This winter gap in nutrition
of sheep was also a feature of
the addresses by S. Grimmett,
research-agronomist, and K.
Payne, of the Hawkesbury
College staff. They explained a
trial which is being conducted
at the college to determine the
best ways of using irrigated
pastures to increase fat-lamb
production. Two improved-
pasture mixtures were used —
HI rye-grass with Bacchus-
Marsh sub. - clover; and
phalaris with Ladino white-
clover. The first grows best
in winter and early spring,
while the second is best in late
spring and early summer.
To make the best use of
expensive water, only that
pasture is irrigated which is
capable of making strong
growth. Irrigation on suitable
pasture-plants goes a long way
towards providing ewes and
lambs with green-feed just
when they want it, but in times
of scarcity hay is fed as a
supplement. Any surplus
pasture is therefore cut for hay.
During its grazing-period
each irrigated pasture carries
10 ewes and their lambs to the
acre. The check-areas of
unirrigated pasture and graz-
ing-oats carry 2\ ewes and
their lambs to the acre. From
the early results of this trial
it appears that the increase in
grazing-density hardly com-
pensated for the cost of the
improved, irrigated pasture,
but it is expected that, as more
is known of the stocking-rates
for various seasons, a more
economic system of manage-
ment will be possible, using
both native, non-irrigated pas-
tures and improved, irrigated
pastures.
A. Hudson, of the college
staff, explained how phos-
phorus is built-up in the soil,
but sulphur is quickly lost.
Superphosphate supplies both
phosphorus and sulphur, as
well as a good deal of lime.
After a few years of super,
the phosphorus will have built-
up, and it might be beneficial
to apply only gypsum for a
year or two, or sulphur-
boosted super.
He pointed-out that lime is
necessary to plants, so they
can move sugar from the
leaves to the roots, but there
is little shortage of lime for
actual plant - use, though
turnips are very susceptible to
lime-deficiency. Only on a
few soils —near Bathurst and
Cowra, in the Hawkesbury
sandstone country and in some
other coastal sandy soils —is
it necessary to use large quan-
tities of lime. Small quanti-
ties are, however, of great
value in neutralising acid-
soils or the acidity of super-
phosphate so that legumes will
germinate well and the root-
nodules grow strongly. With
heavy, prolonged cropping a
shortage of potassium may be-
come evident. Potash-defici-
ency is usually found in
scattered patches, and a small
test-area in one spot may miss
the shortage altogether.
Professor Chaikin, Profes-
sor of Wool Technology in the
University of N.S.W., after
showing a film on the technical
advances being made in the
wool - laboratories of the
C.5.1.R.0., went on to state
that synthetic-fibre manufac-
turers make no secret of their
plan to displace wool in all
branches of the textile-
industry. They consider the
best way to expand is to take-
over from wool altogether,
and they are working hard to
reduce the disadvantages of
synthetics and to exploit their
advantages over wool. We
must, therefore, be prepared
for the time when synthetics
are developed which have the
qualities of warmth and
handle, as well as their present
qualities. In return we must
seek processes for giving wool
the qualities which make syn-
thetics attractive, without in-
creasing the cost of manu-
facture and without impair-
ing the qualities in which
wool is now supreme. It
is up to the woolgrower, he
said, to do all he can to reduce
production-costs, so there will
be a margin in favor of wool
in that direction also.
He considered that in science
and technology the great need
is for capable technical men
to work between the scientists
and the factories, so that new
scientific advances can be
applied in practice quickly
and effectively. Such men are
being trained at the University
of New South Wales, but the
first students have not yet
graduated, and many more are
needed. The competition
against synthetics demands a
great effort, but Professor
Chaikin said he believes wool
will not only hold its own but
will make further progress in
textiles and other uses also.
R. A. PRICE.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(20/8/’59)
Queensland should receive - moderate to good rains
during September, with best falls in the south-western
districts. Rainfall may be light in the Peninsula, centre-
coast, north-western and far-western districts. Good rains
are indicated in much of the State during October and
should extend into part of the far south-western districts.
N.S.W. should get moderate to good rains during
September, with best falls in the central western districts
and central tablelands. However, part of the Riverina and
far-western districts may have only light rain. Similar
conditions are likely in October, with heavy rain and wide-
spread flooding during November.
Good general rains should occur in Victoria during
September and October, with heaviest falls in the central
division. Heavy rains and widespread flooding are likely in
November.
Good rains are indicated in the agricultural areas of
South Australia during September, although rainfall may
be light in the ■ interior. Good general rains should be
received in October.
Moderate rain, below normal, may be expected in the
south-west agricultural areas of Western Australia during
September. Good rains are likely on the south-coastal and
south-eastern districts and around Eucla, but falls may be
light and patchy elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.
Silage-machines
“Sundowner”: A study by
South Australian agricultural
experts —notably F. C. Gross
and G. K. Robinson has
shown that if more than 300
tons of silage are to be made
each year, the flail-type forage-
harvester is the machine to
use ; but where quantities up
to 800 tons are contemplated
the chopper-type is better.
In connection with the flail-
type machine, which has lifted
silage-making in S.A. to more
than 23,000 tons each year, the
experts show that comparative
costs are 12s. a ton for the
flail-type forager, against 15s.
a ton for the buckrake- and
chopper-type.
Flail-machines are best for
cutting pasture in paddocks
which are too rough for
ordinary knife-type mowers.
Even stones pass through the
machine without causing much
damage. On the other hand,
chopped forage can be trans-
ported large distances more
effectively and cheaply than
by other methods.
Although the flail-machine
has a narrow cut, its cutting-
height is easy to adjust and the
machine is capable of cutting
fast and efficiently. With short
hauls to the stack, it is easy
to cut and unload more than
10 tons an hour. With a self-
loading device the machine can
be handled by one man, but it’s
more efficient with two —one
on the stack and one on the
machine.
The flail-machine is specially
suited for making silage from
bulky cereal crops. The cereal
is chopped into short lengths
and settles down into a com-
pact heap which doesn’t need
much rolling. This short-
length silage is better for self-
feeding and is more suited to
mechanical removal.
Because of the quantity of
fodder to be handled, smaller
tractors cannot be counted on
to operate flail-type machines
with full efficiency, so a
medium-sized vehicle is recom-
mended. Flail-types can be
used for harvesting clover-seed
needed for the farm. This
should generally speed -up
pasture-development.


the real life of the book, and its
interest always quickens when they
take it over.
Glubb Pasha
Glubb Pasha’s Britain and the Arabs
(Hodder and Stoughton), an even more
interesting book than its two prede-
cessors—one of which was more or
less of an autobiography, while the
other dealt with the Arab Legion—
is a m'asterly review of Middle East
politics and peoples over the fifty years,
1908 to 1958. It occupies nearly 500
pages of close type and is illustrated
by 36 line-maps which are models of
clarity and simplicity.
It has often puzzled me—as it has
many others who have lived in Arabia
—that this mild-mannered officer could
have forged, almost unaided, the
superb Arab Legion from an undis-
ciplined horde of Arab tribesmen. It
is also a matter for wonderment that
he (alone amongst his contemporaries)
influenced Ibn Saud —ageing, but still
the Lion of Arabia —sufficiently to
keep Aqaba, and the uncertain
boundaries of Trans-Jordania, invio-
late. Glubb sees Ibn Saud as “a man of
intense force of character and intellig-
ence, in addition to great height and
physical strength.”
“Britain and the Arabs” is com-
pletely free from rancor, although
most men would have been embittered
by the mean and foolish dismissal from
Jordan. Witness Glubb’s analysis of
King Husain: —
The young king was full of hope,
energy and idealism. He felt deeply
the tragic situation of his country,
and he lent a ready ear to courtiers
and politicians who assured him
that he was the man to save it.
Jemal Abdul Nasser invited him to
pay a State visit to Egypt, where
strenuous efforts were made both
to flatter and conciliate him, and to
impress him with the wealth, power,
modernity and glamor of Egypt.
Surrounded to a great extent by
politicians, each with his own axe
to grind, King Husain had no
trusted or reliable adviser on whom
to lean. Generous youth is inevit-
ably and rightly enthusiastic,
passionately anxious to sacrifice all
in a noble cause. The young king
allowed himself to be persuaded that
his duty was to free his country
from the “British imperialists.” I
had the honor, at the time, to com-
mand the Jordan Army. I was
dismissed on February 29, 1956,
and most of the British officers
followed me shortly afterwards.
As to the Egyptians, although there
is just criticism of Nasser’s intrigues,
sabre-rattling and lack of military skill,
he says:—
In normal times, Egyptian crowds
are cheerful and good-natured and
full of a lively sense of humor.
There is a temptation to go on
quoting; but one can’t pass by the
reference to Captain Shakespear, who
was Ibn Saud’s first British adviser
and whose influence on Middle East
affairs has not been sufficiently
recognised:—
If Shakespear had survived and
remained with Ibn Saud the course
of history might well have been
different, for they entertained a
remarkable regard for one another.
About two-thirds of the book is
devoted to factual history and is
notably free from error. The remain-
ing third consists of what might be
termed a philosophic commentary with
a theistic background. Briefly, the
struggle for the Middle East is
essentially one between the nations
with a strong religious background
(e.g., U.S. and Britain) and those
antagonistic to religion (e.g., Russia).
Britain, although it can no longer be
accused of imperialistic tendencies, has
lost standing through lack of explana-
tion of its motives and through vacil-
lation. The U.S. suffers from inex-
perience and preaches too often and
too long. On the other side, Russia
would be placed completely out of
court if its true motives and policy
were properly explained and true
brotherhood and complete religious
freedom and protection were offered
to the Arabs by the non-Communist
Powers.
Whether the reader will agree with
these premises will depend largely on
his individual background, but it should
not prevent him from enjoying—and
often re-reading—every page.
One small note of explanation should
be added to the end of Chapter II
where, with reference to Turkey, it is
stated: —
To the outside observer, the tend-
ency to imitate Europe in trivial
details sometimes seemed regret-
table if not ridiculous. The desire
to wear European clothes and in
innumerable ways to imitate Euro-
pean customs, even in directions
which appeared irrelevant and unim-
portant, often seemed to us extra-
ordinary. That even so great a man
as Mustafa Kemal (later to be called
Ataturk) should attach so much
importance to the wearing of hats
surprised many Europeans.
The Ataturk forbade the wearing
of the fez as it was a symbol of adher-
ence to the caliphate, to which he was
antagonistic. That that is the only
correction which seems called for is
praise indeed.
L. O.
Flexmore Hudson's Poems
As one might have guessed years
ago from an excellent book of verses
by children which he edited, and as
is clearly to be seen now in the best
of his own poems in Pools of the
Cinnabar Range (Robertson and
Mullens), Flexmore Hudson’s poetic
talent is essentially very simple, even
naive. This is by no means a quality
to deprecate. You find it in W. H.
Davies and you find it in Shaw Neilson,
and those two poets are good enough
company for anyone to keep.
But Flexmore Hudson, not having
had the luck to live the simple life of a
super-tramp or a quarry man, is in
the inevitable dilemma in which all
simple, yet thoughtful and cultivated,
writers find themselves: he finds it
difficult to shed his cultivation and to
confine himself to the simplicity that
best suits him.
So, in “Pools of the Cinnabar
Range,” on the one hand he writes
poems as simple and delightful as
“Mallee in October”: —
When clear October suns unfold
mallee tips of red and gold,
children on their way to school
discover tadpoles in a pool,
iceplants sheathed in beaded glass,
spider-orchids and shivery grass,
webs with globes of dew alight,
budgerigars on their first flight,
tottery lambs and a stilty foal,
a papery slough that a snake shed
whole,
and a bronzewing’s nest of twigs
so few
that both the sky and the eggs show
through . . .
and on the other hand he has medita-
tions about Schopenhauer, about
Kirsova, about Buchenwald, and, in
the same loose style, meditations on
various Australian themes:—
and famished eagles, fled from
bushfires on the range,
hovered, shadow-silent, above our
fetid plain,
or circled low, uncannily dissolving
in transit of the pseudopodial reaches
of mirage!
None of these meditations, as such,
is without merit. The thought is
interesting, there are passages of good
verse, and Hudson’s essential sim-
plicity survives to give them warmth
and a pictorial quality. But the verse
on the whole is slack, the language is
uneasy, the virtues of narrative and
picture are also the virtues of prose.
His philosophy and his simplicity do
not really blend harmoniously. It is
when, as in “Mallee in October” and
“Waking,” he is writing poems about
children that could also be poems for
children, that his talent finds its true


£l,OOO LITERARY COMPETITION
To celebrate their Centenary Year, Rigby Limited are conducting a major Literary
Competition. The competition is divided into three categories—
1. A WORK OF FICTION.
First prize, £5OO, plus an advance of £5OO against Royalties if published.
2. A WORK OF BIOGRAPHY, OR HISTORY, OR TRAVEL, OR CRITICISM.
First prize, £250, plus an advance of £250 against Royalties if published.
3. A CHILDREN’S BOOK.
First prize, £lOO. All plus Royalties at the usual rate if published.
Write for a brochure detailing rules and further particulars to
Rig'by Limited,
22-26 James Place, Adelaide.
THE SECRET NAME
LIN YUTANG
“The best bit of informed, witty, hard-hitting, anti-Communist
pamphleteering since Arthur Koestler left this field.”
—New Leader (U.S.A.)
22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
COUNTRY CUSTOMERS
jCL
We offer you the same service as our city customers:
• Any book supplied on any subject
• Prompt attention to mail orders
• Convenient accounts
• Money refunded on any unsatisfactory purchase
• Subscriptions to any magazine or newspaper —write for our subscrip-
tions catalogue
0 Regular advice on new titles available—ask to be placed on our
mailing list
GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY
Cnr. Martin Place and Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 9021. '
expression; and then not only does he
write charmingly but also he writes
well. Undistorted, unforced, his verse
falls naturally into lyrical form and
music.
Industrial Novel
In her first novel, Bobbin Up (Aus-
tralasian Book Society), which got an
honorable mention in the Dame Mary
Gilmore novel competition, Dorothy
Hewett shows us about twenty-four
hours in the lives of about a dozen
unskilled women textile-workers.
One cannot help wondering whether
their lot is typical of the industry. The
spinning-mill they work for, said to
be Sydney’s largest, has outmoded
machinery and generally inadequate
working conditions. Their employer
exploits them ruthlessly; they are
hemmed in by financial and personal
problems—mostly, it seems, caused by
the inevitable slackness and waste of
capitalism—and, short of a miracle,
they cannot hope to escape their
situation without ruining themselves
and/or their families, or by deserting
their mates.
When a recession hits the industry
their Right-wing union-organiser—in
the manner, it is suggested, of all Right-
wing union-organisers—betrays them
by agreeing, without their consent, to
the boss’s suggestion of retrenchments
among the married women and a cut
all round in the working-week. The
only one equipped and willing to fight
this imposition is the Communist: she
rallies her mates into a stop-in strike,
and there we leave them, shaky, uncer-
tain, but determined at last to put up
some kind of fight against the bosses.
Much of this is frankly propaganda,
and where the propaganda is implied
in the narrative it is as effective as
propaganda of any sort can be in a
novel. But where it becomes explicit
—as, for example, in the chapters
about the Communist and her husband
at home—it is ruinous to the book;
particularly so since there is little
attempt to make it plausible to the
reader who is unprepared to believe
it. As a result certain passages could
almost be taken as satire on the think-
ing of local Communists:—
“You know, Peg,” he said. “We
put that Sputnik up in the sky.”
“What, you an’ me, Tommy?”
she mumbled. “That’s a pretty tall
order.”
“All the things we done, the fights
we fought, the months on short pay,
the hard times and the battlin’. If
we hadn’t done it the Soviet Union
wouldn’t ’a’ got that satellite up
there. They’d ’a’ been too busy
fightin’ a war. Even if they’d got
it up those bastards of Yanks
would of shot it out of the skies.
But they couldn’t get away with it.
It’s us, the power of the workin’
class that’s keepin’ it afloat.”
She didn’t answer. She was already
asleep . . .
As well she might be. However,
where the author forgets her message
for a bit and simply shows the mill-
women at home with their families and
personal problems she catches much of
the authentic tempo and flavor of life
in such suburbs as Redfem, Tempe,
Rosebery, Alexandria, Beverly Hills
and Waterloo, and brings-off some
lively little character-sketches.
Reviewed Briefly
Cricket from the Grandstand: Keith
Miller (Oldbourne). The first half
of the book is the most interesting.
Among other subjects discussed Miller
justifies the actions which led to his
retirement from first-class cricket;
justifies, also, sportsmen cashing-in on
their abilities; and makes sound and
sensible suggestions for speeding-up
and brightening the game. The second
half is merely a recapitulation of the
1958-59 Tests in Australia.
* * * *
The Case of the Careless Thief:
Christopher Bush (Macdonald).
Ludovic Travers investigates a theft,
from a safe in a seaside pub, of jewels
belonging to the beautiful and game-
some young wife of the fine old
county gentleman. The hard-faced
bookmaker who owns the pub seems
worth keeping one’s eye on, and it
seems strange that the detective-
sergeant of police should be so well-
dressed and so separated from his nice
young wife.


If you
really care for your
use
ENERGOL
visco-static
S.A.E. IOW/30 KD MOTOR OIL APPROVED BY ROLLS-ROYCE
COB
m
r
ENER GOL V/SCO-STA TIC
S.A.E. lOWI3O Motor Oil,
Energol Premium Grade Motor
Oils and Energreases are
available wherever you see
this sign.
ENERGOL VISCO-STATIC has all these
proven advantages over conventional oils
• Reduces engine wear ... by giving perfect
lubrication instantly when starting, and con-
tinually throughout all engine temperatures.
• Increases engine power ... by reducing
oil drag.
• Improves petrol economy ... by remaining
free flowing, even when your engine is cold.
EP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited
i/C7BSR
