

as the
HOME LIGHTING
BATTERY that's
YEARS AHEAD
Century engineers working closely with leading battery
laboratories in U.S.A. perfected this marvellous homelighting
battery, approved by thousands of users all over Australia as
the finest batterv ever made. It’s NEW IN EVERY DETAIL
—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES—NEW CONSTRUCTION
METHODS—NEW SUPER PERFORMANCE.
LOOK AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES.
• SILVIUM—tlio scientific additive
which. KEEPS PLATES ACTIVE
AVITH -A lAXIM EM EE EICIEN C V
PKEVENTS GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURY HOMELIGHT-
I NO RATTEKiES CONTAIN
SILVIUM.
• TRA N S PAR ENT POLYSTY-
RENE CONTAINER . . . you can
see the acid level at a glance.
B INBUILT GRAVITY BALL
INDICATORS . ... show state
of charge AT ALL TIMES.
No more messy hydrometer.
• GLASS INSULATION— gives
sustained power during the
BATTERY’S ENTIRE LIFE.
BACKED BY A BULLET-PROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
(fcntuy
with SILVIUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
©EMAND THE BEST ... BUY THE BEST ... . BUY CENTURY!
SILVIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
sum ii-imii
a;i;i>N\fiivii > j
''■l
m
mm
1
253
These three gravity ball
indicators white, red
and green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
AVAILABLE FROM CENTURY BATTERY DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
''Fisher’s Ghost” 32
Wednesday, February 4, 1959
Price 1 /-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


STORY WRITING
FREELANCE JOURNALISM
WRITING FOR RADIO
VERSE WRITING
If you desire to take up Writing seriously, we
recommend that you study all branches of
Literary Work —the Short Story, the Article,
the Written Sketch, the Paragraph, Radio Plays,
Radio Talks, Scripts of all kinds, Verse, etc.
Stott’s Courses are thorough and complete. Write
for special Literary Prospectus.
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
St.. Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane;
21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St.,
Perth.
—s CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Gourses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 359)
BOOK HU NTE R, Box 2671, 0.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
m
BOOKS BOUGHT
We visit you in the City and Suburbs
Immediate Cash Payment
Valuations made for Probate
BW 7874
(After Hours JY 1131)
BERKELOUW
114 Ring Street, (Between Pitt and
Castlereagh Streets), Sydney.
The Red Page
RANDOLPH STOWS THIRD
Randolph Stow’s third novel. To
the Islands (Macdonald), has more the
tightness and singleness of action of the
long short-story. And, although it
deals-out the Australian scenery and
considers missionaries and aborigines,
when one says that in this book Stow
has got his teeth well into the problem,
it is not the social problem, but the
aesthetic problem: how to get a story
out of a mission-station.
He takes it at a point beyond repor-
tage of life on a mission-station, or
argument whether missions are good or
not for the blacks. The old missionary
hears of the return of the blackfellow
Rex, who had run off with the little
black girl the missionary had adopted,
so that the girl died; and he says he
won’t have Rex back in the mission. A
group of older blacks say Rex must be
allowed back. In a windstorm the old
missionary encounters Rex; they
quarrel, and the missionary knocks
Rex on the temple with a stone, leaves
him for dead, saddles a horse, and
departs with a rifle.
So there is real drama to begin with,
in which the characters are real indi-
viduals, and not x equals White and y
equals Black. Then, as the old mis-
sionary is joined by an old blackfellow
from the mission, who has learned to
be a Christian, and with the love that
will not let him go prevents the mis-
sionary from shooting himself with the
rifle, one sees that the subtle author is
off on yet another tack: the missionary
has taught the blackfellow to be a
Christian, but in studying the blacks
he has himself gradually imbibed
aboriginal religion; he is seeking the
sea and the islands of the dead . . .
The rest of the book is a lyrical
walkabout, in which the missionary,
throwing off more and more of civilisa-
tion, encounters an old hermit and a
murderer before coming to his wished-
for conclusion. The long trek is sus-
tained by a superb effort of imagina-
tion. Stow’s knowledge of the bush
matched by the intensity of his feeling
for the old missionary’s anguish, at a
height more that of poetry than prose.
All-in-all it is an achievement not
only for Stow, but for Australian
writing: something new, as the
advertisements used to say, has been
added.
The Cruel Fair
Right in the beginning of her first
novel, All the Rivers Run (Heine-
mann), Nancy Cato shows she is going
to stand no nonsense from subsidiary
characters: all 12-year-old Philadelphia
Gordon’s family, migrating to Aus-
tralia, are drowned off the coast, except
little Philadelphia herself, hereinafter
called Delie; she is taken by her Uncle
Charles to Kiandra, where her aunt is
postmistress, and where Charles pros-
pects for gold.
The unusual and beautifully handled
picture of Australian life in the snow,
with skiing, and drawing with stones
Uncle Charles picked out of his pud-
dlings for gold, and coping with Aunt
Hester’s acetic commentaries, and fall-
ing in love with her 15-year-old cousin
Adam when he is home from school,
moves with Uncle Charles’s unexpected
gold-strike into a property on the bend
of the Murray 15 miles above Echuca.
Here, Delie having inherited her
father’s money, it is decided to give
the two children a governess; and Miss
Barrett teaches them until, in the bank-
smashes of 1893, all Delie’s money goes.
So Miss Barrett has to go too, but
not before she has, at the insistence of
her adoring young Adam, taught him
her final lesson about the facts" of life.
Adam celebrates her departure by get-
ting drunk in town; quarrels with his
father, and leaves home to become a
newspaper-reporter.
Then he starts to write poems for
“The Bulletin,” seeing which, his
father’s heart is softened, and Adafu
comes home from time to time and
gradually falls in love with Delie, much
to that young lady’s delight; and then,
on the night when he essays a fierce
practicality, and she gently but firmly
repulses him (she, who a year or so
before had thrown off her clothes and
danced in the moonlight, and suddenly
encountered the amused eyes of one of
the local lubras!) he falls, after she has
run away from him. insensible, with
his head in a puddle, and there an
end.
So startling and unexpected a con-
clusion to so pretty a book rather
shocked the reviewer, who put a record
on the gramophone, and was meditat-
ing that maybe it was not surprising
that an authoress who drowned a
family to begin a book should drown
her hero to end it, when a couplet from
“I Saw my Lady Weep,” by the divine
John Dowland, sang aptly from the
loudspeaker:
O strive not to be excellent in woe
Which only breeds your beauty’s
overthrow:
One passes on the advice, for what
it is worth, to the cruel fair.
Westralian Prose
Henrietta Drake-Brockman is a bit
misleading in calling her anthology of
Western Australian writing, edited for
the W.A. Fellowship of Writers, West
Coast Stories (Angus and Robertson)
since it begins with an essay by
Walter Murdoch—in the Professor’s
best vein of quiet comicality, but still
an essay—on 300 Odes to Western
Australia he had to judge:—
Hail to Westralia!
Hail to its bigness!
Hail to its motto
“Cygnis insignis.”
Then again, many of these pieces
are from novels: G. M. Glaskin’s story
of a soldier coming home; Jack
Harvey’s excellent sketch of a boy
daring a huge wave and getting
dumped: F. B. Vickers’s brilliant anec-
dote about the group of hard-up Perth
gentlemen who secured drinking-money
by persuading strangers to join their
“club”; and the studies by Dorothy
Sanders and Randolph Stow; while
Malcolm Uren and Alexandra Hasluck
are represented by bits of history and
biography, and Professor Ida Mann by
(Continued on page 58)


wonderfully comfortable and flexible
/M
9
i
■
ip»
' H
: „, ‘j. -
$
M
■
/
“sssjl
• . : H jhh:
' - !;!
3HHI }*stfwt}.Ti
m
'
w
- .y
New in Australia, new at A.H’s . . . amazing
Ik "Vulseal” Footwear. Now old-fashioned
stitching is unnecessary . . . now
rubber soles are moulded
on by a high pressure
process making them
watertight and hard
wearing. “Vulseal”
Ranger priced at
POST ORDERS TO BOX
G.P.O.
OR PHONE 80951
POSTAGE EXTRA
2712
• They’re watertight:
Vulseal rubber soles will never leak.
• They’re lightweight:
Also flexible, too. Comfort plus!
• They’re hardwearing:
They'll outlast any ordinary boot.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 4, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4121
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adam 9
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
A delaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Mew Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
CAHILL ON THE TIGHTROPE
CTNCE William Morris Hughes almost
wrecked it, over conscription, the
Australian Labor Party has never
been in such a shattered condition as
now. In contrast to those of 1916,
when the issue was only a passing one,
and there was no difference about
basic Labor principles, the problems
of today are basic and still developing
to their possibly disastrous climax.
They arise largely because the party
has become fossilised in its Leftism
and partly because it is no longer run
by convinced Labor men but by an
assortment of careerists, many of them
well-to-do; and as many of them publi-
cans as political sinners against the
tenets of Labor.
It is not unnatural that, led in
N.S.W. by a democrat who is notorious
for his leech-like adherence to any
Royal visitor who happens to come
his way and in the Federal House by
a well-to-do lawyer, and former
High Court judge. Labor should
have lost its soul. It is easy to explain
in view of the careerist nature of its
leadership, which is acrobatic in com-
promise, but punch-drunk and not sure
where it is going or why.
YjUITHIN the next few months Labor
will undergo several operations
which may mean either funerals or face-
lifts, according to which factions or
individuals prove the most adroit in
manoeuvre and the most cunning in
tactics. Probably there will be some of
each.
Queensland has on its hands a fine
row over Mr. Bukowski. which is dis-
rupting both the splinter Labor party
and its most solid underpinning, the
A.W.U., king among northern unions.
In N.S.W. the lower air round the
Town Hall has been full of the sibilant
whispers of intriguers who wish to
change the system of multiple election
for the whole Sydney City Council.
The groans of the damned —D.L.P.
and Communists who are bound to go
with a change of system —break now
and again through the chorus of
mutual vituperation. Ugly accusations
are whispered behind the scenes,
against a background of internal agi-
tation for abandonment of rank-and-
file selection of candidates.
'T'HE State caucus in normal times
A would worry about this, and the
Minister for Local Government no
doubt would long ago have plunged
into the fray to knock heads together.
But Mr. Cahill and his Cabinet are
walking a swinging tightrope on which
they will have to cross abyss after
abyss, each with spiked political death
lurking in the darkness below, and
they are not buying any more fights.
Though they like the electors to
feel that the Federal A.L.P. is another
A.L.P. altogether, and that the Cahill
Government is a forthright, virtuous,
moderate-body which has no animus
against Catholics, Communists, Cala-
thumpians or even the D.L.P., they
cannot escape the blight of Evattism.
Every time anybody opens the Labor
cupboard there Dr. Evatt is being
kissed by the Communist official organs
and clawing at Mr. Cahill’s ragged
vitals over the coal issue or unemploy-
ment on which their views seem dia-
metrically opposed.
The State executive which is to fight
Mr. Cahill’s campaign for him has no
hope of being both Tweedledee and
Tweedledum. It endorsed the Federal-
candidates at the last election and took
their pledges to support socialisation
to the hilt. It is faced with the difficult
task of paying for the election, and
instead of having a surplus fund to
fight the coming State battle, it is
openly said that it cannot pay for the
recent Federal one.
Its red vacuum in its balance-sheet is
almost as large as the Red carbuncle
on its policy as represented by the
United Front and the Hobart Con-
ference programme.
Mr. Ward and Senator Donald
Grant are just as much the State
branch’s business as the Cahill
Government. The State Govern-
ment will find itself saddled with
all the aftermaths of the Federal
Caucus meeting of February 16, when
the great Ward v. Evatt wrestling-
match will be contested with no holds
barred and no concessions for weight.
Mr. Ward, for the first time, is going
in boots and all. And whatever the
issue the consequence must be a sec-
tarian fight arising out of the indignant
revelations of Senator Donald Grant
the gifted author of the Australian
classic, “Through Six Jails.”
He alleges that, having been dragged
to Canberra from what might have
been his deathbed to save the party-
vote in the Senate, he was discarded
by his leader like an old glove in
favor of a gentleman whom Dr. Evatt
flung as a sop to a hostile Roman
Catholic hierarchy in hot pursuit of
the Federal party.
Beyond the elections for the Federal
caucus-leadership it is difficult to see
anything but trouble inside the party.
Its decision, holus-bolus, to post-
pone the biennial Federal conference
till May in order to let Mr. Cahill get
his elections over before that prospec-
tively horrible melee takes place is a
manifestation of rout rather than of
caution or strategy.
The delay in holding the conference
will interpose between the Federal
caucus election on February 16, and
the biennial meeting itself a period
of struggle for ascendancy between
various groups which will be most
uncomfortable for State campaigners.
Every faction which is not busily
squeezing the last drop of support for
itself out the unfortunate Cahill-Kelly
combination will be engaged in trying
to trample it underfoot, put a dog-
collar on it or alienate support from it.
TyHICHEVER way it turns and what-
ever happens, it will come face to
face with horrible embarrassments. If
Ward wins at the caucus election it
will give heart to the Communist-led
unions which idolize him even more
than they do Dr. Evatt. They regard
him as a firm friend, whereas they look
on the Doctor as merely a pliant in-
strument.
If Dr. Evatt wins, then the party
is faced with continuing and implac-
able hostility from the Catholic com-
munity and with the Federal leader’s
own adoption of the Communist line
about coalfields unemployment.
This latter line cannot be exploited
politically without pinning at least
half the responsibility, on the neck of
the Cahill Government.
If funds are needed, the only unions
able to give amply are the big Com-
munist-led ones, and they will strike
a bargain which will leave the State
branch with little left but its socks
so far as its supposed political plat-
form is involved.
All along the route to battle there
is shortage of money, dissension among
commanders in the higher levels in
which dissent is permissible without
condign punishment.
And at every corner of the road
some section of the public, utterly
weary of Cahillism. stands in wait with
its waddy—the sections that hate the
public transport system, the transport
tax, the Defamation Act and just plain
Cahillism.
If the N.S.W. Liberal-Country party
cannot win the State election under
the present circumstances it should dis-
band.


SPACE-MAN (1965)


PLAIN ENGLISH
More Double-talk
The Western press professes to be dis-
appointed by the speeches of the leaders
of the 21st Communist Party Conference,
but there was nothing that those familiar
with Russian changes of line didn’t
expect.
Russia, as ever, angles with two hooks.
One is baited for the mugs with fair
words and mountebankery, like that used
by Khrushchev and Mikoyan when
abroad. The other is baited for the Big
Fish to End All Fishing—the Communist
world-revolution. The little hook is
merely to catch bait, and it is surprising
how much bait there is about even in
the circles that should know better, and
how eagerly big Western newspapers,
industrialists and capitalists will rush at
a bit of raw prawn without waiting to
observe whether there is a hook within it.
Khrushchev’s line cast at the 20th
Congress is still out, though the burley
is a bit stale. He is less fortunate than
all his predecessors because a condition
exists which they did not need to regard.
Expansion of Communism to other Iron
Curtain countries has made it necessary
for him to explain his actions in a way
to suit at least some of the rest of the
world which is not quite so thoroughly
regimented as Russia and the U.S.S.R.
itself.
At the 21st conference he produced
the same sort of pabulum that Stalin
invariably presented—promises of a
better Russia in which the workers would
live on a standard to excite the envy of
Western workers—but in this case his plan
is for seven years, which is better than
the Leninist-Stalinist five-year plans.
For the rest he adopted all the old
Stalinist cliches —peace and the ending
of the cold-war ; support for China and
the United Arab Republic ; a peace-treaty
with Germany as a prime need —though
only the U.S.S.R. has prevented one
being made during the last decade ; and,
finally, denunciations and bullyings both
of his own erstwhile friends at home and
of the countries that have been com-
pelled to stand armed to repel his
threats during the past few years.
All the speeches at the conference were
echoes of his own. The staggering state-
ment highlighted that there are no
grounds for conflict between Russia —
which is the self-declared leader of world-
revolution against British and American
imperialism—-and the Western Powers.
If any Russian journalist or leader
were to preach the kind of stuff about
agreement with the West that Khrushchev
preached at the conference he would be
dubbed immediately a “revisionist” and
a traitor and dealt with very sharply.
Khrushchev’s line only needs to be
compared with that of the Central Com-
mittee of the Communist Party of Russia,
in its official organ “Kommunist,” to
understand what a specious and lying
ruffian he is when dealing with the West.
In its issue No. 14, published only
at the end of October last, it called for
“a struggle against revisionism and
dogmatism,” and declared that “the
danger and harm of revisionism consists
in the fact that it endeavors to please the
capitalists, to weaken the powerful
Socialist camp, to replace the principles
of proletarian internationalism with
nationalism.... At present revisionism is
the main danger in the international
Communist movement.”
Mr. Mikoyan told the Americans that
the Communist Central Committee, not
Khrushchev, weave U.S.S.R. policy.
Another One to Victoria
After a comparative lull in the new-
industries - for - Australia story the
news broke on Saturday of big develop-
ments in the petrochemical industry.
Agreements involving the Vacuum Oil
Co. Pty., Ltd., Union Carbide Australia,
Ltd., C.S.R. Chemicals Pty., Ltd., the
Distillers Company of London and the
Dow Chemical Co. of America are to
result in the establishment in Victoria of
four chemical plants to produce a wide
range of products not previously made
in Australia.
Using mainly waste-materials from the
Vacuum oil-refinery at Altona, near Mel-
bourne, the plants will produce ethylene
(a basic material for plastics), butadiene
(a component of synthetic rubber), poly-
ethylene (used for plastic sheeting, flexible
containers, flexible tubing and so on)
•and styrene (used in the making of syn-
thetic rubber and plastics). There will
also be a full synthetic-rubber plant.
Total outlay involved in establishing
the new plants will be £23 million.
Building is to begin almost immediately,
and the plants are expected to be ready
to run within two years.
Premier Bolte joyfully commented that
“Victoria had won the race for the petro-
chemical industries,” ana he obviously
had reason to be jubilant. The Premiers
of New South Wales and Victoria are
reported to have been eager to get the
industry for their States. As a Standard-
Vacuum refinery is to supply the raw
materials it is likely that the choice lay
between Victoria and S.A., with the odds
on the former as being nearer to the main
markets for the products; also, the
Altona refinery is already in full pro-
duction, while the S.A. plant (at Hallett’s
Cove) is still at the blueprint stage.
Still, both Cahill and Playford would
have had a particular welcome at the
present time for the big deal. Each has
a vital election on his doorstep.
Tightening the Belt
[From Canberra]
It is becoming clearer that the Com-
monwealth Government may be forced
to ask Australians to tighten the belt
later this year unless the present strong
inflow of overseas capital is maintained
or unless world commodity prices rise.
Belt-tightening would take the form of
more stringent import-restrictions.
Australia has already shown an overall
balance-of-payments deficit of £25 million
in the first six months of the current
financial year. The current-account posi-
tion is expected to show a deficit of
£l3O million, while net capital-inflow was
£lO5 million.
As Australia is now exporting almost
to the limit of its capacity, raw-materials
imports cannot be cut because of their
prime importance in the economy, so
any cuts will again apply to what are
termed “luxury goods.” Any hope for a
rapid improvement in the position de-
pends on a revival of world trade, and
although there were the beginnings of
this in the United States and Canada, the
picture is not over-promising.
Australia’s export trade depends,
basically, on wool, wheat, other primary
products and some manufactured articles,
but the Bureau of Agricultural Economics
has forecast that before increased de-
mands for Australian supplies of these
goods, particularly wheat and wool, are
made, reserves held overseas of these
commodities will have to drop sub-
stantially.
Devaluation of the franc and an easing
of convertibility of sterling have further
complicated the whole picture.
Director of the Associated Chambers
of Manufactures Robert Anderson, a
man with his finger on the pulse, has
sounded a more optimistic note. He said
that the healthy level of Australia’s over-
seas reserves, built-up during 1956-57
and the first half of 1957-58, should en-
sure Australia being able to ride-out the
“lean period” of the current financial
year.
The reserves as they now stood at
approximately £SOO million should pre-
vent any serious dislocation to the
economy.
The drift in trade will nevertheless test
the economic background of the new
Treasurer, Harold Holt, who will be in
serious confab with his colleague, Trade
Minister John McEwen, between now
and the end of the financial year.
Melbourne's Heat-wave
Melbourne had had such a long run of
amiable summers that the first sustained
blast of high temperatures five days
out of eight with a temperature of over
100° —in January set-off a chain of
gasping demands. Among these, most
understandably, was one for more air-
conditioning in hospitals, where mortality
among infants and the aged was high and
all sorts of makeshifts and borrowings
of fans were needed to ease the strain.
Melbourne doesn’t usually stay over-
heated for long, though February has
started-off with the thermometer at
103°.. It may be argued whether
the extra cost "of air - conditioning—
at the expense of other hospital needs —
is warranted in a city in which excessive
heat in the average summer is normally
blown away fast by a cooling westerly
or southerly. Another long stretch of
searing northerlies might put the issue
out of the debating phase.
About the comfort of playgoers and
actors the reaction was more decisive.
The only serious fault critics and the


public found with “My Fair Lady” was
that it opened at Her Majesty’s Theatre
on a night so atrociously hot and humid
that the fine-feathered audience wilted.
John McCallum, the assistant
managing-director, promptly promised
that the theatre would be air-conditioned
—as, be might have added, it should
have been long since. Conditions for
both audience and cast for the “Fair
Lady” first-night were, he admitted,
really torrid, and would have to be put
right, even though the cost would be
about £30,000. The Royal in Sydney
and Her Majesty’s in Brisbane are air-
conditioned, Mr. McCallum said —and,
as if to soothe Melbourne, he added that
this had always been “essential in their
climate.”
The trammies were not being left out
of it. Their year-round uniform in-
cludes heavy navy-blue serge trousers
and a shirt with collar and tie. Their
union is asking for a summer-issue uni-‘
form of light drill trousers and an open-
neck shirt. R. J. H. Risson, chairman
of the Tramways Board, who is not very
receptive to suggestions from any quarter,
has said “No.” The union will ask him
again.
Brindabella to Ksandra
[From “MacHoots.”]
For the benefit of the N.S.W. Main
Roads Board and the Snowy Mountains
Authority, each of whom lately seemed
to believe that the S.M.A.’s new road
from Brindabella across Kelly’s Plains
to Rule’s Point and Kiandra doesn’t
exist, may I say that it does? It is a
perfectly respectable road and the locals
have been using it for the last two years.
True, as the N.R.M.A. said —having
some dim awareness of its existence —it
might not be navigable in very wet
weather ; but even then you could
probably get through, and it can never
be as bad as the Roads Board thought —
a bridletrack you could tackle “only with
a pack-horse.”
It is a very pretty road, too: down
that noble mountain of Brindabella,
twice crossing the sparkling Goodra-
digbee (by the new bridge, and the new
culvert near Bluett’s), winding up
Peppercorn through the bush where the
hyacinth-orchids grow and the wonga-
pigeons hoot like a bunyip, crossing the
Murrumbidgee near its source, then
straight across the high rolling plains
once bare of everything except wombats
and trout-fishermen but now strangely en-
livened by gangs of Italians perched like
cockatoos up the pylons of the Snowy
River scheme, whose course the road
follows.
One thing the road does need, though,
for the innocent motorist from Sydney,
is a few signposts to give you some faint
idea where you are going and to keep
you off the enticing bridletracks that go
nowhere ; and so, too, does the whole
of the Snowy area. New roads, fascinat-
ing roads, go everywhere; but apart
from a few useful notices advising you
not to get drowned in the Adaminaby
Dam there is hardly a signpost to be seen.
It is no use the Snowy people trying
to keep it all to themselves. The tourists
are already there; and if somebody
doesn’t put up a signpost for the driver
I met trying to get through Old Ada-
minaby to Happy Jack and round to
Tumut Ponds and Cabramurra they'd
better send out a search-party.
Flat-skyscrapers or
Cottages?
With Melbourne threatening to stretch
in an unbroken crazy sprawl from
Geelong on one side to Dandenong on
the other, habits of housing thought are
at last undergoing a change. The Vic-
torian Housing Commission has hitherto
viewed even smallish blocks of flats with
distaste and reluctance. But now two of
its experts have come back from abroad
with a report to Horace Petty, the
energetic Minister for Housing, in favor
of 12-story to 15-story blocks of flats to
replace slums.
Their report says, obviously enough,
that 15-story blocks of flats would permit
greater use of sites, the accommodation
of more people, and mean fewer trans-
port worries. Melbourne has abundant
inner-suburban areas of broad streets,
convenient to transport, lined with totter-
ing, ramshackle cottages on tiny front-
ages, but with all services available —
while new communities out in what used
to be the sticks wait for sealed roads,
sewerage and other conveniences at high
cost.
Of course the problem is not uncom-
mon. But it has become accentuated in
the post-war growth that holds out to
Melbourne the prospect" of again over-
taking Sydney’s population. In conse-
quence the fixation that 95 per cent, of
Melbourne’s people need a cabbage-patch
of their own is weakening.
If will weaken further under the
pressure of the migrants, whose political
influence is growing, and who pour more
thickly into Melbourne than into the
other State capitals. Many of them
would prefer tall blocks of flats to semi-
detached villas or carved-up old houses.
And many of them have seen in
Europe that intelligently, comprehen-
sively planned massed blocks of flats
with provision for community-life may
be more comfortable and inviting than
a little old house left behind in the
unplanned surge to the outer suburbs.
Thunder Everywhere
The European press in the last week of
January teemed with headlines which
showed the state of disturbance in which
the world carries on.
This disturbance is not wholly inter-
national. It seems to be a feature of
so-called Western democracy (which is
at least democracy, while the Moscow
type is not) that any Government which
is embroiled with the Russians or colored
races fights not only its external enemy
but its own Opposition.
On this principle Mr. Gaitskell has
been giving Nasser reason to rejoice
during the past week by his jeering at the
Macmillan Government for the fact that
it has been obliged to make a “free gift
of £SO million” to Nasser under the Suez
agreement, apart from losing the Suez
base and the trade of Egypt as part of
the “final and humilitating account for
the incompetence and folly of the 1956
Suez escapade.”
He feels that if only the Eden Govern-
ment had negotiated through the United
Nations it could have had an agreement
which would have given the canal share-
holders proper compensation, allowed the
users some say in the maangement of
the canal, and, of course, left the military
base in our hands and our trade with
Egypt intact.
Equally Gaitskell talks rubbish when he
says that the Macmillan Government dis-
covered belatedly that in Iraq the “most
effective counterweight to Communism
was Arab nationalism.” He says that he
is in favor of “restoring diplomatic rela-
tions with Egypt,” and chides the U.K.
Government “that nowhere in the 13
States for which Britain was responsible
in the Persian Gulf was there so much
as a pretence at popular rule.”
Is there in Egypt, which has been
governed by a single ambitious tyrant,
without Parliamentary backing? Is there
in Iraq, where it is rumored that the new
“Premier,” having liquidated every rival
of the old regime after trials redolent
of the ancient Syrian methods of justice,
has executed his own deputy, who did
most of the dirty work for him during
the “revolution”?
It seems a bleak outlook for the white-
man in Asia and Africa, for the colonial
Governments of those continents are
being betrayed not only by those whom
they educated towards the capacity for
self-government but by their own
Socialists, who did more than any others
to open the gates of the Communist bloc.
The few miserable Maldive-islanders
who in a world war could expect to be
blotted out if it were not for British
protection, are bargaining with the British
Government about the defence-base there
with all the aplomb of Nehru, certain
that they will find allies in Westminster
among the gentlemen who hope to defeat
the Government at the next election.
The South African Government, the
one firm island of white supremacy in the
Dark Continent, is losing ground,
morally and physically, by its Dutch
stubborness and lack of constructive
thinking on the native question. Cuba is
a seething mess. The black inhabitants
of Kenya are surrendering to the charm
of a new boy-orator. The Bugandans are
shouting for the “end of the accursed
British link.” The Algerians have been
blowing-up French oil-trains. The Con-
gans have been rioting against the
Belgians, stoning churches and hospitals.
In the Mediterranean, Malta has burst
out into a sort of political ulcer. In the
Pacific, the Philippine Government is
declaring shrilly that the United States
has not paid its war-compensation claims
of about £425 million.
The promise for a peaceful diplomatic
season in 1959 does not seem to be very
bright.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T’ve always considered my wife a
A good sensible woman, but now
I wonder ... A young woman rang the
door-bell, gave her fourpence, and asked
breathlessly, “Please, may I use the
phone to get the fire brigade?” She
didn't know how to dial, so “Tabbess”
dialled, then repeated the message. Next
morning’s paper and the A.B.C. regional
news told us that the brigade had been
called to Joe’s Pie Shop on a false alarm.
“Oh, dear,” said Tabbess unhappily.
“The girl seemed genuinely upset.” “What
did she tell you to tell the brigade?” I
asked. “Oh, dear,” said Tabbess again.
“Now I see it. She just said, ‘Tell them
there’s a fire at Joe’s Pie Shop!’ and I
did.”—“Tabba.”
❖ <♦
“Kalic”: Third day of Melbourne’s
searing, drying heatwave —a Sunday—
produced a lesson in co-operation
from our tram - men. The p.m.
standby-crew proceeded to the top of
Ormond Road, Elwood, and in turn,
relieved crews for five or seven minutes.
So the working crews could sup on ice-
cream, or swallow a coke- or lemon-
drink. I was so impressed, that next hot
day—week-day, naturally—l’ll do a bit
of smuggling work from my club. It’s
in the same suburban street.
"I've sort of got the impression that the Wilkinsons don't like visitors.”
“Corio”: The last place I expected to
see a TV-set on the final day of the
third Test was our cop-shop. Yes,
eminent citizens vied with on- and off-
duty policemen in glueing their eyes to
the screen while May and Cowdrey saved
England. The set had been recovered
after a robbery at a dealer's, and the
resourceful cops had rigged a temporary
aerial to get the Test pictures through.
♦j+
“Bo”:. A New Australian took over
our Sydney suburb’s fish-shop, and he
hadn’t been installed a week when a
chalked notice, “Murray Cod,” appeared
on his window. I hopped in for my cut
of what has become a rare delicacy in
Sydney. It appeared that he had none
fresh —it was all there sizzling in the oil-
bath. I commented that it was a delicious
fish, the Murray, and asked him where he
'got his supply from. His smile was as
oily as his wares as he said: “Oh,
nodzing but ze best ’ere —special, zis, I
import ’em from Eengland!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.D.W.”: Among the “Bedroom
effects” at a Western District (Vic.) sale
of antiques was a “Zolny China Comfort
Bowl on Ormolu Stand.”
❖ *l* *l*
“Sack”: At one time a shirt-
manufacturer advertised a very black
blackfellow wearing a very white
shirt and an enormous grin * while
he declaimed, “Mine tinkit they
fit.” Today the hoardings depict a
soulful-eyed damsel breathing through
seductively parted lips, “It is indeed a
lovely shirt, sir.” But nostalgia is
stronger than advertising progress—at
our juvenile ball, amid the countless
Zorros, Cheyennes and Annie Oakleys,
a nostalgic figure stood out as black as
burnt cork could make him, his shirt as
white as his flashing teeth. He won first-
prize. When the adult “do” comes around
I’m going to borrow a dress-suit ; with
my naturally simian cast of countenance
plus a placard stating I won’t wash
clothes, I reckon I’d stir up enough nos-
talgia to make the first-prize a certainty.
$ * *
“5 G.R.”: “R.R.D.’s” par. (B.
26 /11 / ’5B) on a Welsh recruit recalls
“Bosun” of my old A.I.F. mob, who
was tongue-tied. He described himself
as the shanitary man, first up, last to bed,
with a forked stick to spear bits of paper.
In action he was reckless. If he liked
you he called you Mister ; if he didn’t
he didn't call you anything. When he
was brought up to the dais to be pre-
sented with the Military Medal, few
recognised him ; his moustache was
clipped, his hair cut, and he was in new
uniform. Birdie, in his stammering way,
appended the ribbon and started to say
something . . . “That’s all right, Mister
Birdwood. Don't want the ruddy thing ;
I’m after the V.C.” And he was
killed trying to win it.
BEFORE OR AFTER?
“Political seers opined that N. S. Wales elec-
tions vyould be held in March, before Dr. Billy
Graham opened his campaign on April 1, so
that the Cahill Government’s attitude to
gambling and drinking would not become a
religious issue.”
It isn’t easy to surmise
How many votes it may be worth
If people don’t see Paradise
Before they’re offered Heaven-on-
earth.
If Billy Graham got in first:
“No bets and booze in Heaven, you
know,”
The voters might contract a thirst:
“Well—Cahill’s pub before we go.”
Yet, if election-day befell
Before the Graham call were given,
Voters might shun the Labor Hell
And gamble on a Liberal Heaven.
And so it’s easier to say
How Morton may resolve the mess
By having little bets each-way,
And drinking shandies to success.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM


VX7e stopped to offer aid to a motor-
’ ’ cyclist stranded by tyre - trouble
on a quiet stretch of the highway several
miles from a Victorian town. A very
New Australian, he managed to convey
that he didn’t care to leave his machine
unattended on the highway. “If pleasa
you stop at the nexta town and tella
Harry at Bross’s garage.” Apparently he
was known there, and help would be
sent out. Our tour of the main street
with its five garages failed to reveal one
trading under “Bross,” but we determined
to do our best, and our second inquiry
struck oil, revealing that our stranded
rider was a recognised customer at a
garage under a large sign: “Carter Bros.,
Automotive Engineering.”—“Orion.”
+J* 4*4
“Teamel”: Observing the marvellous
array of paperbacks in a Sydney book-
shop, among them “The Portable
Chaucer,” “The Portable Milton” and
“The Portable Whitman,” we’re waiting
for a volume in the series devoted to the
works of Edgar Allan Poe.
♦♦♦ '
“P.0.M.C.”: Tell “Bicky” (B.
21/1/’59) that bookies get home with
their bags (usually with plenty still in
them) from small trotting (and galloping)
meetings simply because, as a rule, there
may be as many as three different
favorites in the final five-minutes of bet-
ting on every race. That several “death-
knock” favorites win doesn't necessarily
mean that punters as a whole have won.
❖ ❖ *
“A.E.S.” (Ohio): Dining at Walker’s
in Park Street on a three-course meal
for a bob (B. 26/11 / ’5B) was a high-
light of my first visit to Sydney,
shortly after the turn of the century. To
me it was the manor-house of the
metropolis, and it is no small tribute to
cook or commissariat that, at that price,
it could line the cavernous, ravenous
insides of a 13-year-old so effectively that
the memory of it would spring vividly to
life on the other side of the world more
than half-a-century later. I was back in
Sydney three years ago and wondered
many times as 1 roamed the streets about
noon where the dickens that place was,
or what had become of it, although I
was under no illusion how little I'd get
for my bob, if I found it.
■> ♦> *:♦
“Geoff T.”: While Lismore (N.S.W.)
was narrowly missing a major flood, and
many of the low-lying parts of the city
were under water, there was a film show-
ing at one of its theatres entitled
“Raintree County.”
»2* ♦> *■>
“P. Nuyts”: A brains trust at Perth’s
summer school for adults came up with
two answers that tricked me. They
reckoned tranquillisers are a better counter
to grief and disappointment than are
time and faith—which I’ll believe when
I see an overdose of time and faith re-
duce their addicts to neurotic misfits.
The other answer was to the question,
“It’s half-a-minute fast by my
Watch.”
“Is there any sign of the approach of
the superman?” They said this was a
“foolish, frivolous question but (para-
doxically, I thought) not without im-
portance. 1 think it’s a good question and
one scientists will have to face-up to.
They've warned us of the danger of
excessive radiation producing a race of
monsters. Couldn’t it just as conceivably
produce an odd superman?
*> ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: On presentation-day at a
high school in Taranaki (N.Z.) the head
girl - prefect received a well - wrapped
parcel from the boys. She opened it at
once, and found a baby's rattle! With
a giggle she blurted out: “Now I know
how the boys’ minds work.” Then she
sat down, blushing and confused, while
teenagers roared with mirth, and masters
and parents reacted according to just
how their trains-of-thought followed-on.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spin”: New York State now has a
points system for erring drivers. They
get three points for speeding and reckless
driving, two for passing a red light, and
one and a half for other offences. A
total of eight points in two years, 10
in three, or 12 in four years puts a driver
in line for an appearance before a
referee, who can suspend or withdraw
his licence.
“A.M.”: Now I’ve seen everything.
Last wet day he passed in red pullover,
blue shorts, bright pink socks, and hold-
ing aloft a bright scarlet umbrella.
“Galahad”: Not more than four tickets
to each person is the rule for the
“Ordinary” (you-and-me) section at the
Lottery Office, and the girls apply it to
the letter. The woman in front of me
in the queue presented a form for two
tickets, and while the girl was writing
them the woman pushed two more forms
through the grill, with £1 2s. for another
four tickets; seeing which, the ticket-
writer recited the rule. That’s where I
came to the rescue ; I suggested that I
might be allowed to buy two tickets for
the lady. The girl thought this over
for a while, gave the necessary permis-
sion and, retaining the same forms and
money, wrote the four tickets. Thereby
everybody was happy.
+> ♦> +*+
“Bellfield”: Clean-up Week in our
suburb saw the frame of a motorbike
dumped by the kerb amid a lot
of back-yard jewellery. True, it
had no wheels, saddle or engine,
but the handlebars were there
and enough to set me wondering
sadly what was the matter with
the modern kid. In my youth the
wonderful thing wouldn’t have
hit the footpath before being
whisked away to become the
vehicle of a death-defying Don R.
or a daredevil speedway rider. Next
morning the jewellery was still there,
but the motorbike frame gone. Some
bottle-oh or motorbike crank after spare-
parts must have got it, I was reflecting,
when a nasal chant came from a house
three doors down the street: “Calling all
patrols. Calling all patrols. Bank hold-
up in city. Robbers armed with tommy-
guns. Go get ’em, boys!” Crouched
over the handlebars of his wheelless bike
the youthful cop roared to the rescue.
♦J* «£♦ «£♦
“E.J.P.”: As one who did compulsory
training in Australia before the first war
1 feel that George Patterson (B. 14/1 /’59),
has got some things wrong. The scheme
(in which I attained the exalted rank
of sergeant), in the Sydney suburbs at
least was: junior cadets, 12 to 14;
senior cadets, 14 to 18 ; citizen forces,
18 to 26 —not, as G.P. says, “senior
cadets from 18 to 21 after which they
passed into the citizen forces.” Also it
was an entire waste of time, mostly
Saturday afternoons, involving us in long
periods of standing-at-ease in the streets.
A whole-day parade was four hours ;
a half-day parade was two hours. In
all my time I did two route-marches,


one extended-order drill, and four trips
to Long Bay Rifle Range, where I fired
a total of 40 cartridges from a Wesley-
Richards single-shot .310 rifle Later ex-
perience as an officer of H.M. Forces,
overseas against the King s enemies
during War II taught me a lot about
fighting. The old compulso. had taught
me no ing.
♦♦♦
“Central”: This February sees the
40th anniversary of the ’flu, epidemic
of 1919. Ministers of religion and
funeral - directors had possibly their
busiest time ever, but there was
also a lighter side. At weddings
during that February all present wore
gauze masks over their mouths, and
“My goodness , Milly, you DO need glasses !”
maybe some Bulletin readers had their
photos taken wearing masks on those
happy days.
♦j-
“Sunray”: While Australia has been
putting -up record temperatures this
summer, a friend in Scotland tells
me she spen Christmas n the High-
lands and that the semi-arctic conditions
in her home on the Border were warm
m comparison. Some friend had left a
pheasant for her while she was away,
and it just had to be cooked when she
got back. She says the road to her house
was snowed-up, so she couldn’t ask any-
one to share the pheasant with her, and
felt a perfect pig sitting down to roast-
pheasant, with all the trimmings, on her
own, though she is sure no pheasant
would have lured her out in such weather.
“Mark Heim”: Among the beaches to
get a pounding from cyclonic seas
j n mid - January was King’s Beach,
Caloundra (Q.). Sand to the depth of
4ft was shifted b the waters and dunes
usually we]l back from the surf were
eaten into one result was an outbreak
of fortune-hunting, beginning with the
children and spreading to the women and
men. After each receding tide coins were
left on the beach in great numbers. Total
might have been as much as £2O. One
boy’s find was £3. Oldest coin bore a
1916 date, but most were of more recent
mintage. A little friend from a nearby
flat found no coin older than 1949, about
the time when Caloundra moved up fast
in popularity. It just shows how poor
'a receptacle for money is a man's pocket,
above all when he reclines at ease on the
beach. Day by day, of course, there
are other explanations for his shortage
of cash.
❖ ❖ *Z+
„ , „ _ .
.. a a : Ll j> e Tritton s account of
clea f r ,^ lfter f 4f t ° £ , lus , e
Home Guard when y wc y wrl , traini
hurriedly to meet a Nazi invasion. At
grenade-practice a Mills 36 failed to ex-
piode and an attempt to explode it
systematically with another grenade
having failed, the company’s bomb-
experts went out with detonators and
fuse. The two of them stood looking
at the dud while we in the trenches
watched. They took ages to set the fuse
—probably shaking even more than
“Duke” —but impressed us all by
dawdling nonchalantly back to the firing-
trench. I saw them clearly silhouetted
against the flash, standing upright at the
lip of the trench. They flopped into the
trench, but were miraculously unhurt.
When another dud fell, the same two
went out, did their job, and dashed back
to safety. J don't know how much fuse
they used that time, but we could have
boiled the billy and had smoke-oh before
that one went off.
♦> ♦> *3»
“Amcee”: During Melbourne’s heat-
wave a commercial traveller, driving
along the Great Ocean Road, about 100
miles from the city, stopped his car,
walked across the beach, and plunged
into the sea —still clad in shirt, long
trousers and socks. After a short splash
in the surf, he climbed back into his
car and drove off, no doubt anxious to
prove that commercial travellers can be
wet outside also.
*2*
“Imperial 55”: I love the Victorian
Government Printer; all his forms
match-up, and duplicates are no trouble
at all. The object in life of the New South
Wales Printer seems to be to test the
ingenuity and patience of the typists who
use his products. His forms have to be
held up to the light and pinned in position
to ensure carbon-copies having figures
and details in the right places. When you
multiply the minutes taken each day in
doing this by the number of people using
the forms, it adds-up to a frightening
waste of time. Maybe it’s the only way
they can create full employment.
THE HERO
“Police Prosecutor-. Were you present at this
fight between your wife and your girl-friend'.'
Witness : 1 certainly was. I sort of refereed
it.”
It would pain him, he knew,
If they put on a blue
Which involved any scratching or
biting;
Tearing hair and the like
Was the sort of a yike
You’d expect when the sheilas were
fighting.
So, determined to see
Any stoushing would be
Conducted in scrupulous manner,
This gent, a true sport,
Simply had to resort
To hoisting the referee’s banner.
It’s not often a bloke,
When his dames take a poke
At each other anent his affections,
Can calmly preside
As their ref., satisfied
They’ll obey his judicial directions.
But what mystifies me
Is, how the hell he,
When a flurry of teatings and gnawings
Sent him hopping in there
To break-up the pair,
Escaped their combined kicks and
clawings !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Malo”: Mention by “W.P.T.” (B.
21/1/ ’59) of calendars and colored
supplements hung on the walls of a
house, reminds me of an old house 1
visited recently in Tasmania, where the
walls of the outside privy were entirely
lined with calendar- and magazine-
pictures, the majority being of the Queen
and members of the Royal Family.
»> ♦> »j*
“Nairod”: I was new at the private
hotel; on my third morning the New
Australian proprietor said, “How do you
find your room? Do you sleep all right?”
1 said, “Yes, but last night the people
at the end of the corridor kept me awake
with their TV —the volume was turned-up
so loud it hammered right through the
walls.” He looked sympathetic; it
wasn’t till a few days later I learnt that
he was the occupier of the TV-room.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Reprimanded for
going outside to play, Amanda the five-
year-old was sent to bed without seeing
her favorite TV-session. The next day
the same thing happened ; and on her
way to bed that night she patted the set
and remarked, “You might as well send
that thing back to the shop.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sevenelms”: My sister, usually a
ruthless member of the tell-the-truth-and-
shame-the-devil school, has quibbled.
Running-in her new dentures she had
a tedious afternoon in the chair biting
on sheets of stained paper that revealed
high-spots that were ground-off by
dentist. That night she dreamt she was
chewing chops by dint of
adding sheets of paper. Her
amusement on waking was
shattered at the sight of her
bedside library-book with
four pages torn out and a
litter of chewed paper on the
coverlet. She has returned
the book with offer to pay
for “damages caused by
matters beyond my control.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Sister Ellell”: As I
entered the airport lounge a
fellow-traveller was regaling
the lady who met her with
all the news of her holiday.
“Oh, yes, I had a lovely time
and are they making money
up there! Doing? Under-
taking, of course. He’s the
only one in the town . . . has
eight or nine a day. Come
over here and sit down, and
I’ll tell you.” To my chagrin
they went over there and I heard no more.
If the town is small enough to maintain
only one undertaker, then eight or nine a
day reflects badly on its health-services.
♦J* 4*4
“W.P.T.”: A sign at the beginning of
a North Balwyn (Melbourne) street
reads: “This road is kept in repair by
the residents—please drive slowly.”
❖ ***
“Bo”: Snippet from the end of the
bus-queue: “My dear, it’s so amusing.
The splash they made with the wedding,
and all the guff about them in the local,
paper. I believe they had a terrific row
on their honeymoon and she left him
there and then. It’s funny, a thing like
that to happen on your honeymoon, of
all things. Anyway she certainly doesn’t
intend to go back to him.” “Is she going
for a divorce?” The yapper-in-italics
“Hey, Dad! Can I ring the N.R.M.A?”
“The salesman said a baby could push it, and
you're MY baby — see?"
looked mildly shocked. “My dear\” she
protested. “They only met a few weeks
before they were married. She doesn’t
know him well enough to divorce him!”
“Cheep”: After considering several
quotes for the house he planned, he
favored one for £2900. A builder friend
assured him he could do better. So he
could, for that builder —the completed
house cost the planner £4OOO.
I shot a gag into the air.
It fell to earth I know not where
Until one night on our TV
A comic shot it back at me.
VIC.
BICKY.
CHRISTCHURCH BICYCLES
Set free by the signaller
who semaphores with white gloves,
a silence of cyclists.
At the intersection starting-line instantly
twenty-five left feet lift
to engage free pedals.
The girls ride upright,
ball-bearings ticking in bright rear hubs.
They fragrance the air with honeysuckle,
their dress
is cool and crisp.
They pedal in a very determined way
with an easy thrust. But one’s eye
is not drawn today to girls
sailing home behind wicker baskets
or to the luminous socks of the non-
descript men,
rather to Dad on a rusty-chained derelict,
saddle too low, doubling a filled sack,
and already lagging,
pedals under the insteps of his large flat
feet,
knees going laboriously up and down,
up and down
at a wide angle,
very like an ancient engine
with creaking opposed pistons.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


POLITICAL POINTS
A British scientist has warned that the
botulinus toxin is so deadly that a tea-
spoonful could kill the population of an
entire city. An obvious move seems to
be to ban teaspoons.
• •
The 23rd Commonwealth Parliament,
which will officially open on February
17, will sit for only five weeks in the
autumn session—three before Easter and
two after —a total of 15 sitting days. It
will then adjourn until the Budget session
in August or September, and is unlikely
to sit beyond seven weeks. This pro-
gramme gives a total for the year of 36
sitting-days—nice work, if you can get
it, at £2350 (minimum) a year, with per-
haps an increase after July 1.
The official opening will be followed
by a lavish reception in King’s Hall.
Harold Holt insists that the function
will be a reception and not a ball, but
the dance-band from Duntroon will pro-
vide, in Holt’s own words, “facilities for
dancing.” Supper will be served in the
floodlit courtyards of Parliament House.
Holt claims that such a function,
attended by all members, and their wives,
diplomats and others from the top strata
of Canberra society, adds to the dignity
of the Commonwealth Parliament.
• •
Davis Hughes accuses Cahill of being
childish in refusing to announce an
election-date. Coy, perhaps; shrewd,
possibly; cunning, certainly ; childish,
no!
• •
Announcement of the establishment,
of a petrochemical industry based on
the Altona (Vic.) oil-refinery brought
from Miners’ Federation president
Parkinson the comment that this “vir-
tually ended any hope of a coal by-
products plant being established in
N.S.W.” This is probably true, but
Parkinson's suggestion that the move
came about- because the Federal Govern-
ment “had it all tied-up with the oil com-
panies” is rather ridiculous. The Joint
Coal Board is a partnership between the
Federal and N.S.W. Governments, and
even supposing. Canberra had ulterior
reasons for not wanting to establish a by-
products industry based on coal, the
Cahill Government would have every
reason for encouraging such an industry
if it were economically practicable.
No one disputes the possibility
of producing an almost endless variety of
chemicals from coal, but, unfortunately,
most authorities agree that all such
chemicals can be produced more cheaply
from oil.
• •
A week after Darwin had been pro-
claimed a city Bill Harney proclaimed it
“a mosquito-ridden stinkhole.” Harney,
now warden of Ayer’s Rock, thinks there’s
no city like Alice.
• •
A first-class line-up of former world-
champion cricketers will be seen at the
Manuka Oval (Canberra) on February
10 when the Prime Minister’s Eleven
will play the visiting M.C.C.. team. The
match, which will take place in most
picturesque surroundings, will be a real
picnic affair. Included in the P.M.’s
Eleven are three former Australian cap-
tains, lan Johnson (who will captain the
side), Lindsay Hassett and lan Craig.
Other well-known cricketers in the team
include fast-bowler Ray Lindwall, Arthur
Morris and Sam Loxton. The umpiring
line-up also presents a star-studded cast —
Jack Fingleton, Arthur Mailey, lan
Peebles and E. W. Swanton.
Only man not named so far is drink-
waiter, but this all-important personage
will be revealed on the day of The Match.
• •
The N. S. Wales ton-mile tax on road-
transport will be repealed if the Opposi-
tion wins the N. S. Wales election, Pat
Morton said last week. Telling an
Armidale audience this, he said the system
had proved a costly failure and its repeal
would be' one of the first acts of a
Liberal-Country-party Government.
• •
Under the Petroleum Search Subsidy
Act, £164,730 will be paid to three oil-
exploration companies this year. Wapet
will receive £79,730 for drilling opera-
tions at Frome Rocks (W.A.); Australian
Oil and Gas Corporation £75,000 for
drilling at Surat (Q.) and Campberwell,
about 50 miles north-west of Newcastle
(N.S.W.); Westralian Oil £lO,OOO for
drilling at Spirit Hill (N.T.).
Announcing these payments, Senator
Spooner, Minister for National Develop-
ment, said the Government’s policy was
to meet half the cost of drilling opera-
tions which showed promise of yielding
new geological information which could
help the search for petroleum in Aus-
tralia.
• •
Extensions to B.H.P.’s tinplate plant
at Port Kembla will raise output by
40,000 tons a year. The first of four
new tinning lines will be in operation
next month ; the last a year later.
■ • •
Grain harvest in South Australia this
season is expected to yield 31.5-million
bushels wheat, 36.4-million bushels barley
and 12-million bushels oats, with per-acre
yields of 22.93, 29.24 and 24 bushels
respectively. To find better average yields
it is necessary to go back more than a
century, to a time when the acreage under
wheat was only one-eighth of that sown
today and the area under oats and barley
almost negligible.
“Take that thing away! I still like to think I’m living back in 1958!”


It did seem a little strange to have
the Japs letting-off fireworks again in
Sydney Harbor.
• •
At the forthcoming Opera House Ball
in Sydney Town Hall a prize is to be
given for the “most glamorous outfit
suitable for wearing to the opening of
the Opera House.” But won’t it be
rather out-of-date by opening night?
• •
Without waiting for Cahill to announce
his election-date, Opposition-leaders
Morton and Hughes have been making a
joint tour of N. S. Wales —the first such
demonstration of unity by Liberal and
Country-party leaders for 20 years.
Speaking at Armidale (Davis Hughes’s
home-ground) Morton said that the close
alliance of the two parties was the best
guarantee of the Opposition’s success at
the coming election:
The policy we have warked-out is
vigorous and forward-looking, and it will
end the stagnation into which the State
has fallen under this worn-out Labor
Government.
In some quarters Morton and Hughes
have been taken to task for not giving
more specific details of their plans. That
attitude is rather unrealistic. The tour
is a show-the-flag affair ; the proper place
for details is in the policy-speeches of
the two leaders. Morton did say, how-
ever, that a key point of the Opposition’s
policy for development would be a sound
educational system ; that attention would
be given to planned mineral development;
and that the emphasis in public trans-
port would be on service to the public. '
• •
Queensland is still awaiting the appoint-
ment of the electoral commission to
redraw the electoral map of the State.
Elections are due next year, so the com-
mission will have to get cracking pretty
soon or its job won’t be finished in time
for new rolls to be prepared.
• •
Sydney “Herald” front-paged a story
of a Port Moresby storekeeper who was
“in desperation” because a Japanese
importing firm had written for samples
of “natural dragon’s blood” and was pre-
pared to place an order with an irrevoc-
able letter-of-credit immediately if his
prices and samples were right. Appar-
ently neither the storekeeper nor the
“Herald” was aware that dragon’s blood
is no legendary substance but a perfectly
normal article of commerce —the resin
from a type of rattan-palm, used for
coloring lacquers and varnishes and (in
China) for giving a red facing to writing-
paper, and as a medicine.
• •
State-award men in Queensland will
get a 4s. rise as a result of a judgment
of the Queensland Industrial Court. This
makes the State basic-wage £l3, com-
pared with the Federal wage for Queens-
land of £l2 3s.
• •
Red China’s Premier Chou En-lai told
the congress of the Soviet Communist
party that the friendship between Russia
and China was “eternal and unbreak-
able,” and that in the Russia of today
“the peoples of the entire world see
their tomorrow.” That’s rather strange.
When Khrushchev promises his people
that Russia will soon overtake America
in the production of consumer-goods he
is virtually telling them that in living-
standards the America of today is the
Russia of tomorrow.
• •
London “Daily Herald” reports an out-
break of “schoolphobia.” Described as
a new kind of mental disturbance among
children, its symptoms are that the child
sets out with the honest intention of
going to school, “but immediately on
arrival he will be sick or start screaming.
Jt is fear. The child is genuinely ill.”
Nothing new about it. We’ll be having
it here soon. In the old days the kids
overcame it by playing the wag for a
day and having a grand time playing
Indians in Brown’s paddock or swimming
or fishing in the creek. Next day, having
got rid of all their frustrations, they
accepted six cuts and forgot all about it
for a few weeks. Now, with the spread
of the cities, there aren’t any paddocks
left to play in, and the creeks have been
channelled into pipes. If the youngsters
want to play the wag there’s nowhere
left to play it. Result, as chronicled by
the “Daily Herald.” .
• •
According to Lang’s “Century,” which
these days has quite an affection and
respect for Clive Evatt —as for Bert,
Eddie Ward, Les Haylen and a few more
favored sons —there’ll be a third Labor
party in the field at the State election.
Led by Clive, it will be called the N. S.
Wales Labor party and will contest at
least 10 seats. Hurstville (Clive’s seat),
Rockdale, Kogarah, Lakemba, North
Sydney, Concord, Ryde, Hamilton,
Kahibah, Cessnock and Kurri Kurri are
listed as the possible field of activities.
• •
One of the hardest chores facing migra-
tion officials handling Italian migrants
is to persuade them that our part of the
New World can be safely faced without
a supply of salami. Even now they are
bringing it in so frequently that the
Customs people are awake to nearly all
the dodges. Hardly a week passes with-
out some migrant facing a charge and
paying a fine of £2 to £5 for failure to
declare salami in his possession. It may
have been stowed in cans of olive-oil or
sewn into the folds of baby-clothing.
It’s the element of raw meat in the
salami that causes the Customs concern
on quarantine regulations. They say a
lot of the salami from southern Europe
is infected with t.-b. germs. All that
can be found is seized and destroyed.
Failure to declare the stuff can bring
a £lOO fine, but nobody has yet been hit
that far for salami-smuggling. Even so,
the 31b. to 41b. of sausage that the
fanciers try to bring-in can be pretty
expensive as well as keeping the salami-
detection squad alert. The Italian Con-
sulate in Melbourne engagingly suggests
“sentimental reasons” for the traffic.
• •
“Ilto”: A conversation overheard on
the Manly ferry prompts me to suggest
submitting Bulletin leader-headlines for
perusal by one of your senior women
before publication. With her husband
beside her, the Bulletin open at the
“Plain English” page, I heard a woman
passenger read the heading “Fares and
the C.-0.-l,” and remark, “I see the politi-
cians are giving women a break at last,
lumping fares and change-of-life
together.”
• •
In spite of Macfarlane Burnet’s
advocacy of “genetic mixtures,” it’s
apparent that Australians and migrants
alike prefer to marry persons of their own
nationality. The latest Queensland sta-
tistics, for example, show that 8829
Queensland men who married in 1957
chose 230 British-born girls, 21 from
Germany, and 8578 Australians as brides.
Out of the 9365 Australian-born Queens-
land girls who married in that year, 272
married Englishmen, 75 Scotsmen, 107
Italians and 60 Dutchmen. The Greek
and Italian communities in that State
showed very few “outside” marriages.
• •
Following its policy of taking Govern-
ment to the people the Nicklin Cabinet
arranged a meeting in Gympie yesterday
(Tuesday). Previous Cabinet-meetings
outside Brisbane have been held at
Toowoomba and Rockhampton.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: For years U.S. diplomats
in Canberra have been disgusted at the
sight in the hollow below the Embassy of
the old and ugly hovels of Westlake.
The hovels are the relics of the original
Canberra construction camps, and they
have been out of sight of most people
except the diplomats—who have no votes
in Australia. Department of the Interior
has allowed the “temporary” settlement to
remain, with the occupants paying nom-
inal rentals, but has pulled down the
houses as deaths or removals have
occurred. Only 38 of the original 62 sub-
standard dwellings remain, and the policy
of slow destruction is to continue,
although the aged residents will not be
evicted. It is hoped this “gentle” policy
will achieve its objective within three
years. The U.S. Ambassador of that day
will probably throw a celebratory party,
with a bonfire around the last humpy.
• •
Colombo Plan equipment to be used in
“Indonesian mass-education activities”
has been presented in Djakarta. It con-
sists of two 16mm. film-projectors, one
slide-projector, two tape-recorders, one
radio-set, a record-changer, four mikes
and four loud-speakers. Looks as though
education in Indonesia is to be made
entertaining.


Personal ITEMS
Laurence Rupert (“Jim”) Mclntyre,
who is handling the groundwork for
Indonesian Foreign Minister Subandrio’s
official visit to Canberra, has one of the
touchiest jobs in Australian diplomacy.
He was already an experienced profes-
sional when he went as Ambassador
to Djakarta in 1957, succeeding W. R.
Crocker in the rambling, inconvenient,
old Dutch colonial house converted for
the use of our small mission. Djakarta
is off the beaten track for junketeers and
Mclntyre was sent there not to make
a splash but to show patience and
commonsense in keeping watch during
a troubled time. A Tasmanian Rhodes
Scholar of 1933, Mclntyre was a cross-
country runner at Oxford and is one
of the career diplomats whose progress
in External Affairs has been equally
steady under Evatt and under Casey. He
is a quiet, cool observer, and Canberra
will be relying heavily on his briefing for
the Subandrio visit.
• •
Retired after 62 years as a bookseller,
Bob Morris was for 30 years managing-
director of Oldham, Beddome and
Meredith (Hobart). Born in Hobart, he
learned bookselling from Charles Walsh
and is lecognised as an authority on
early Tasmanian books.
• 9
“Uramao”: During January Palmer-
ston North (N.Z.) was the venue of the
Commonwealth Relations Conference —
the first occasion N.Z. has been selected
for the meeting. Secretary-general of the
assembly was a New Zealander, C. E.
Carrington, Professor of British Common-
wealth Relations at the Royal Institute
of International Affairs and one of two
distinguished sons of a former Dean of
Christchurch—the other being Arch-
bishop of Quebec, Canada (B. 8 /10/’SS).
The Professor took part in both wars —
enlisting in 1914, he became a captain in
the Royal Warwickshire Regiment; in
Hitler’s war he served from 1941-45 on
the general-staff. He has written much
on Empire and historical and biographical
subjects, sometimes using the pen-name
Charles Edmonds.
• •
Calling it a dav after 37 years in
the Westralian Police Force, R. H.
Hickson has been inspector in charge
of the Police Traffic Branch since 1955.
After working as an engine-driver, he
joined the police-force in 1922, and
passed the magistrates’ examination in
1939. Regulations debarring a policeman
from holding a magisterial appointment
prevented him from sitting on the Bench,
but his legal knowledge didn’t go to
waste. As a sergeant, he was for many
years prosecutor in the metropolitan
police-court. Overseas with the 11th Bn.
in War I, he was mentioned in dispatches
in 1916, captured at Fleurbaix and was
m the bag for the rest of the war.
MURRAY HOWELL, recently appointed
a director of South Broken Hill,
has been general - manager of the
mine since 1955. Educated at Adelaide
University and St. Mark’s College, he
served as a junior engineer on the con-
struction of Mt. Bold ( W.A .) reservoir
before joining the South mine as junior
engineer in 1936.
Edwin Gilbert Lewer, who has been
appointed to head the operations of
Colgate-Palmolive in West Germany,
with headquarters in Hamburg, has just
completed three-and-a-half years as
general-manager for the company in
India. Lewer was born in Bankstown
(Sydney) in 1915, and began with Colgate-
Palmolive as a salesman in Sydney in
1937. At the time of his transfer to India
in 1955 he was sales-manager, soap divi-
sion. During World War 11 he served in
the Army from 1941 to 1946.
Edwin Lewer is the sixth Australian
to be selected by Colgate-Palmolive for
important overseas appointments. The
others are J. M. Stevenson, now president
and general-manager, Canada; L. H.
Stevens-Jones, director of sales and
advertising, Philippines; J. W. Steel,
export-manager, England ; E. G. Miles,
factory-superintendent, India; K. A.
Page, sales-supervisor, Thailand.
• •
Brigadier H. J. Mogg, D. 5.0., just
completing a visit to Australia, commands
the 28th Commonwealth Brigade, in
which Australian and New Zealand
troops are serving in Malaya. Born in
Canada and commissioned in the Oxford-
shire and Buckinghamshire Light
Infantry, Brigadier Mogg took command
of the brigade last July.
• •
Winner of the Mary Gilmore Award
for the best novel written in Australia
in 1958, David Forrest, of Brisbane, is
a 34-year-old bank-official. He served
with the 2nd A.I.F. in New Guinea and
his book, The Last Blue Sea, is about that
campaign. Chosen out of 40 books con-
sidered, it will be published by the Aus-
tralasian Book Society in Melbourne
next August.
• •
Last Friday Phil Dorter turned-on the
beer at the Bulletin pub. because he was
going to Sydney Water Board on Mon-
day-some job concerned with press
relations. He came to The Bulletin 22
years ago, out of a Westralian mine,
winner of an essay-competition: “Why
I want to be a journalist”; he
has been one of the West’s bright pupils
at Perth Modern School, where he was a
contemporary of Kim Beazley, Labor
M.H.R. for Fremantle —the two were in
the school debating team —and Dick
Cleaver, Liberal M.H.R. for Swan.
Best known, among his many Bulletin
activities, as theatre-critic and a writer of some
first-class short-stories, he is more notorious
to his colleagues as a Way of Life, or, rather,
Ways: his lives all centre around a block
of land as steep and almost as broad as
Taronga Zoo, on the Middle Harbor shore at
Seaforth, peopled by his heroic wife, his son
(“best cadet in N. S. Wales” in 1957), his 12
cats and a white she-goat. From and to that pre-
ciptous gorge he has emerged in the dark of
night to see the performances and write the
criticisms that settled nice points of ballet-
technique and brought letters from learned
old students of Shakspeare; and to preserve
these preserves from the attack of inflation,
and to build on them, first a shack and then a
house, he has worked night-shifts in box-
making factories —so that cardboard boxes ran
at him on conveyors in his dreams —on adver-
tising, and at the editing of innumerable little
periodicals; so that thousands who have never
read him on “Hamlet” must at least have had
something out of one of his boxes, or read one
of his advertisements, or turned over one of
his trade-journals.
Phil’s conversation, all highly practical, turns
on the amazed silence that greeted Beriosova’s
first Sydney appearance; the rigging of flying-
foxes to carry building-materials down Seaforth
slopes; the secret savagery of the kookaburra;
the correct way to drill holes in rock with a
crowbar to split cliffs with gelignite; how to
take sick she-goats by car through Sydney to
the vet.; how to transport roofing-tiles down
gullies of virgin bush by hand ; mass ovarian-
operations on cows on lonely stations; the joy
of being on an Air Force station in the
Northern Territory where all you had to wear
was boots and a hat; the cost and trouble
of relieving cats of fish-hooks they have
swallowed by mistake; the exquisite refinement
of Leo McKern’s Totichstone; the silver-
soldering of broken engine-parts or the tea-
kettles of friends; how, an immobilised service-
man in W.A., to melt gold in the field and pour


it into a mould you whirl round your head so
that you can send your mother a gold Spitfire-
brooch; the precise intensity of the silence
that indicated that Gipsy Rose Lee’s strip-show
had flopped in Sydney; how, when you are made
press-relations officer on an Air Force station,
to handle volatile Wing-Commanders and
Squadron-Leaders • . .
Mostly prefaced, after he has listened to
whatever stories are being told, by: “Best
story I ever heard about....” or everi, in
moments of expansion: “Best story about....”
Less a Bulletin writer than a Bulletin
inhabitant; as likely to arrive on the premises
at 4 a.m. as to finish at that hour, or to be
met in the torn trousers and open shirt he
lumps rocks in as in the crumpled suit he
attends theatrical parties in, or in the dinner-
jacket he keeps in the office for sorties upon
stalls and dress-circles; thick, solid and decep-
tively stolid: best story we’ve heard about Phil
Dorter is his going to work for the Water Board.
For the past month we’ve been wearing-out
that simple gag; still, like most of his gags, it’s
a good one.
0 0
On a world-tour embracing Australia,
Singapore, Honolulu and Canada,
Anthony Milward, chief executive of
British European Airways, is a pilot in
his own right, who has flown more than
40 different types of civil and service air-
craft. He served with the Fleet Air Arm
in World War II and, until lately, acted
as his own pilot when visiting B.E.A.
stations abroad. But time has caught
up with him and, not being able to put
in the necessary flying-hours, he has had
to forfeit his licence.
0 0
Off on his eighth overseas-tour in 10
years, Russian-born Australian pianist
Jascha Spivakovsky, is the only resident
Australian to play regularly on the inter-
national concert-platform. On this tour
he will give about 30 concerts in India,
Canada, and the U.S.A. In America he
will perform with his violinist brother,
Tossy, for the first time in 10 years.
DR. ARTHUR WILLIAM TURNER,
O.S.E., winner of the Australian
Veterinary Association’s Gilruth Award
for 1958.
If Richard Gardiner Casey had not
been a member in such impeccable stand-
ing, there might have been eyebrows
raised at the Melbourne Club a few
nights ago when he took-off from its
stately portals on the back of a motor-
scooter. The scooter’s pilot was his son
Bonn, with whom he had been dining
at \ the club ; the destination, Gipps
Street, East Melbourne, where the
Caseys maintain a small town-house.
Neither the weight of his External
Affairs portfolio nor the weight of his
68 years can subdue Casey. In 1956 when
swinging the propeller of his own aircraft
he took a nasty crack that might have cost
him a hand. He still flies. So does his
wife. But there are some veteran airmen
who would think twice about a back-seat
ride on a motor-scooter.
• •
“Uramao”: Just retired as secretary
of the Department of Internal Affairs in
N.Z., A. G. Harper Was knighted in the
New Year honors. One side of his
activities was meeting and arranging
tours of distinguished visitors and
planning Royal visits. This meant going
back to England and interviewing
members of the Royal Family booked for
tours of N.Z. Many other duties came
under his jurisdiction, including wild-life,
issue of passports and keeping an eye on
the gambling bent of Enzedders.
• «
The top Junior Farmers from each
of the six States who sailed in the Iberia
to tour the United Kingdom under the
sponsorship of the P. and O. Company
were Wynn Davies (Q.), Peter Buck-
master (N.S:W.), Warren Combe (S.A.),
lan Smith (Vic.), David Chugg (Tas.) and
Graham Hill (W.A.). Their itinerary
takes-in the principal farming, agricul-
tural, marketing and manufacturing
establishments of the U.K., including
some of the Royal farms. They will live
on some of the most modern farms in
England, Scotland and Wales, and may
also spend two weeks on the Continent.
The young men, from 21 to 24 years,
are winners of the P. and O. Canberra
Award competition and, when they
return to Australia, one of them will
be the winner of the P. and O. Canberra
Scholarship entitling him to a scholar-
ship at any Australian university or
technical college, or an equivalent cash
grant.
0 0
Currently on a crowded seven weeks’
lecture-tour of Australia, the Rev. Harry
Daniel is a presbyter at St. Mark’s
Cathedral, Bangalore, of the United
Church of South India. His itinerary
includes student conferences at Corio
(Vic.) and Canberra, the Y.W.C.A.
summer-school in Melbourne and the
annual meeting of the Australian coun-
cil of the World Council of Churches
at Menangle (N.S.W.). Daniel took his
M.A. at Madras University, lectured
there in economics, studied theology at
Birmingham, became a deacon in 1949
and a priest the following year. He was
world-secretary of the Student Christian
Movement from 1951 to 1953.
ROBERT P. CUMMINGS, Professor
of Architecture at the University of
Queensland, member of the Australian
Planning Institute and a trustee of the
Queensland National Art Gallery.
Into the Silence:
In, Sydney, at 64, Major-General Arthur
Samuel (“Tubby”) Allen, C. 8., C.8.E., D. 5.0.,
V.D. In War I he was on Gallipoli and later
with the 45th Battalion at Messines; he became
a lieut.-colonel at the age of 24. In War II
he commanded 16th Infantry Brigade in Libya
and Greece and later the Seventh Divi-
sion in Syria and New Guinea.
In San Francisco (U.S.A.), at 79, William
Sprott Boyd, mining-engineer and former vice-
president of Kennecott Copper Corporation.
Born in Australia, he went to the U.S. in 1905
and became one of the founders of the
American copper-industry in the west.
At Ngaruawahia, Auckland, at 86, Rev.
Henri Rihimona, whose knowledge of the Maori
gave him the opportunity of welcoming every
prominent visitor to his area for the past 26
years. Maori language, arts and genealogy
were his chief studies, and he has been adviser
to the late Princess Te Puea Hereangi and to
King Koroki.
In Adelaide, at 59, James Terrell, well-known
in the Westralian goldmining industry. He
worked on the Golden Mile, managed a mine
at Wiluna in the 1930’5, later lopked after the
Hampton Area Company’s interests in Cool-
gardie and then moved to Adelaide to act as
consulting-engineer for several mining com-
panies. He was lately managing-director of
Australian Development, N.L.
At Timaru (N.Z.), at 89, Brother Justin,
former Provincial Superior of the Marist Order
in N.Z. A native of Dapto (N.S.W.), he was
foundation-director of the Marists’ School in
Newcastle (N.S.W.) and in 1905 became direc-
tor of the Sacred Heart College, Auckland.
In Melbourne, at 91, Charles Heber Perrin,
chief construction-engineer of the Victorian
Railways, 1923-32. He joined the construction
branch in 1885 as a student-engineer and was
responsible for building the Spencer Street
bridge.
At Wellington (N.Z.), at 70, Brigadier Robert
Amos Row, who served in both world wars.
He served on Gallipoli and in France, and
commanded the Ist and 3rd Batts, of the
Canterbury Regiment. In War 11, after service
in the Middle East and Greece, he commanded
Allied landing operations against the Jap.-held
Treasury Islands in 1943.
In London, at 65, Dr. George Chesney, who
evolved the procedure for diphtheria-immunisa-
tion which has now become world-wide.


ABORIGINALITIES.
Pant agree with “Agricola ’ (B.
26/11/ ’5B) on Afghan hawkers.
During my travels all over the back-
country of N.S.W. I met many hawkers,
often camping alongside them. None
that I knew claimed to be Afghans. Most
were from Bengal and a few from Syria,
and all had a fierce hatred of Afghans.
Mention of the word Afghan would cause
many of them to spit and make gestures
of contempt.
When I first came to Bourke in 1906
there was a big camp of ’Ghans. Far
from being “gentle persuasive” men, they
were arrogant and truculent, hated by
men and feared by women and children
of the lonely out-stations and boundary-
riders’ huts. Several cases of interference
with white women had occurred about the
turn of the century. Some of the old
hands at Bourke hinted that strong
“I said the BIG spanner !”
measures had been taken with the
offenders, and the 'Ghans were made
aware that women had to be treated with
respect.
Another thing that made them un-
popular,, in a country where water was
precious, was polluting the tanks and
water-holes. They thought nothing of
leading a mangy camel to the water’s
edge, washing him and letting the filth run
back into the tank or hole.
The Bengali and Syrians were a better
type, welcomed alike at homestead or hut.
Most had their regular routes, and usually
would arrive at their expected times.
Children would be watching for Ali Box,
or Aman Deen, or whoever was the
regular hawker, knowing that at the
conclusion of business they would each
get a small bag of boiled-lollies, no
matter if there was one child or six. And
it was mostly six.
Many hawkers added skin-buying to
their normal trading and bartering
kangaroo-and-possum-skins for clothing
caused many good-humored arguments,
But the hawker was always careful to let
the customer have the victory,
The most notable of them all was
Syrian Mary. When I met her she was
close to 60. Yet she travelled alone and
on foot from Mudgee to Gulgong, Lead-
ville. Coolah, Cassilis and back to
Mudgee four' times a year—a distance,
with deviations, of over 200 miles. She
carried her wares in three baskets, one
on her head and one in each hand. Pins,
needles, trinkets, lacy things that womfen
drool over, and knitted-clothes for the
new-born, comprised her stock. Once I
lifted her baskets and guessed the total
weight at 401 b. But she walked along, as
smartly as the average woman carrying
nothing. She was the most remarkable
woman I have yet met.
“Duke” Tritton.
* * * •
“Angus McScupper”: Well do I mind
in 1917 fixing the 9in.-by-Bin. baulks to
the Nairana’s underwater-plates (B.
14/1 / ’59) at Will Denny's Dunbarton
yard. They could still be snugging to her
ribs if bolts of phosphor-bronze instead
of war-time steel had been used. But only
a poor Sassenach landlubber like
“Quarter-cut” would miscall them elm
rolling-chocks. They were wych-elm
falsc-keels. None of your lightweight
Ulmits compestris, which is right enough
for coffins and butcher-boy’s trays, but
Ulmus montana, a braw shipbuilding-
timber.
* * * *
“Cygnet": What’s in a name? Well,
apparently quite a lot. A Launceston
(Tas.) couple named Honey took
possession of their new home on return-
ing from their honeymoon. They received
a welcome from crowds of buzzing bees,
which had swarmed between the roof
and the ceiling.
* # * C
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Until the new inter-
national airstrip was opened recently at
Jackson's ’drome, near Moresby, the only
airport in New Guinea qualifying for
the “international” title was at Biak, in
the Dutch end. It is predicted that
Moresby will now become a stepping-
stone for flights between London and
Australia, as well as for flights from
Australia to Asia, cutting out stops in
either Indonesia or Singapore.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Nothing mysterious
about those blowholes on the Nullarbor
(B. 14/1/’59); it is merely a matter of
whether the barometer is rising or, falling.
When the air-pressure above the surface
rises, air is forced down the hole and
into the cracks, crannies and porous
structure of the rock strata below. When
air - pressure falls, this bottled -up air
rushes out again. It can be likened to
putting air into a car-tyre or letting it
down. The reason why some holes blow
or suck longer than others is because
their underground storages are larger —
just as a tractor-tyre takes longer to
blow - up or let - down than one off a
motor-scooter.
* * * *
G. MacArthur Job: “Yen” (B.
31/12/’5B) is astray when he says
that the one telephone party - line
runs from Norseman (W.A.) right
through to Colona homestead (S.A.).
Eucla homestead, 10 miles over the
border from S.A., has in fact two
party-lines. The homestead's “signals-
office” boasts two ancient phones which
face each other from opposite walls, the
one connected to Norseman via Madura
and Balladonia, the other to South Aus-
tralia’s Fowlers Bay exchange via Koon-
alda, Nullarbor and Colona homesteads.
For reasons best known to the Gurneys,




owners of Eucla and Koonalda stations,
there is no way of linking the two lines,
and messages from east to west and vice
versa must be relayed by word of mouth
at Eucla. The line between Fowlers Bay
and Colona was , a familiar landmark
during nearly five years I spent piloting
planes for the Anglican Flying Medical
Services based at Ceduna, and in 1954,
soon after the beginning of my tour of
duty, I installed the radio transceivers at
both Eucla and Koonalda homesteads.
“Were only giving them a trial-viewing to see if they like it”
“Hamish Mia”: Our little Cape York
Peninsula township has only a dozen
vehicles, but we did have one minor
traffic-accident last year. When the driver
of one Land/Rover braked suddenly to
avoid hitting an emu that was crossing
the only street another Rover just behind
banged into him!
*■ * * *
“Spin”: Officials of Perth Museum are
arranging an exhibition in the Mammoth
cave at Margaret River of specimens
found in the cave in 1904. They include
the remains of koalas, Tasmanian-tigers
and -devils, a giant kangaroo, wombats,
and a large species of echidna, now-
extinct on the Australian mainland.
These bones were found in a limestone
deposit and showed that their original
owners lived in the south-west corner of
the continent comparatively recently. It’s
generally accepted that they died-out —
although the smaller species of echidna
managed to live and maintain an exten-
sive range —because of the area’s increas-
ing dryness. 1 can’t see it. The devil and
tiger were on the way out in Eastralia
when the first settlers arrived, and it's
conceded they couldn't compete for food
with the dog the first human inhabitants
brought with them from Asia. I'd say
it was the dingo that put them under in
the West. He also probably killed-off the
big ’roos and koalas; and it's significant
that, now his hunting-grounds in the
south-west corner have been taken over
by a stronger race than his old masters,
the dingo has established himself firmly
and prosperously in the drier regions east
of the Warburton Ranges, towards the
South Australian border. Although dry,
much of that is good pastoral country as
long as it’s left in it’s natural state ; and
its invasion by the rabbit, followed by the
cat and fox, have made it a hunter's
paradise for warrigal. There he’s estab-
lished a stronghold from where he sallies
forth to take toll of all the pastoral
country from Esperance to Exmouth Gulf.
* * * *
“Goobee”: I was driving a newchum
jackeroo to an outstation, and as we
passed over a bore-drain he pointed to
a battered box-log salt-trough just olf
the road. “Look,” he bellowed above the
roar of the old jeep, “a blackfellow
canoe!” I asked him gently just where
the blackfellows had used their canoe,
there being no water for at least 10
miles, and he replied, “Well, up and down
the bore-drain, I suppose.”
* * * *
“Spin”: I could-mention many birds
who'd beat “Kerba's” scissors-grinder at
aerobatics —swallows, martins and swifts,
falcons and kestrels, pelicans and herons,
and many of the tits- which flit unob-
trusively around the trees and garden-
shrubs performing feats the blustering
flycatcher wouldn’t even be game to
boast about. Yet there’s something in
the air which can beat most of these all
the time and even the best of them
occasionally. The dragonfly can do 60
m.p.h., at which speed it can stop, in
less than its own length, and it can take-
off in any direction backwards, side-
ways or upwards—at almost full speed
from scratch. Compare a dragonfly’s
weight with the fine, transparent wings
which drive it through all its contortions
and speeds ; and then feel glad that its
ancestors, which sometimes had wing-
spans of 2—3 ft., developed along smaller
instead of larger evolutionary trends.
* * * *
“Eeboog”: When Bill, the owner,
strolled onto the board dcring the first
morning of shearing, the young learner,
who had been making heavy weather of
it, asked him if he’d pull-out one sheep
that had slipped into the letting-go pens.
The old bloke leaned over the edge of
the rails, studied the sheep in the pen,
and drawled in his driest voice: “Which
one, son?”
*-* * *
“Bass”: Any time there’s a debate
about the rights of our aborigines it’s
pointed out that this is their country
and we took it from them. Fair enough,
I suppose ; but it wasn’t their country
for the last million years, as a W.A.
columnist claimed recently. They came
here from Asia probably less than 30,000
years ago ; and if the white man has
destroyed their way of living with his
guns and his ploughs and fences, think
of what the black man did with his
dog—the dingo—his kylie and his fire-
stick. He practically exterminated the
Tasmanian-wolf and -devil from the
mainland ; he may have played a- big
part in the extinction of the diprotodons
in their last stronghold in the lake Calla-
bonna area ; and he may seriously have
upset the balance among the big herbi-
vores. The only race that can lay honest
claim to this continent are the marsupials.
Their remotest traceable ancestor seems
to have been a rat-like creature which
somehow landed in the north, and from
which all the diverse Australian mar-
supial-forms have sprung.
SNAKE BY THE ROADSIDE
He only asked a few plump frogs
Or feldmice from the furrows,
Freedom to coil in hollow logs
Or cosy rabbit burrows.
Yet all the paddock held him king
Of fear, small feathered fry
In twittering wrath berated him
If he but glided by.
The rabbits froze, both nerve-locked
limb A
And will might not obey.
Occasional humans, sighting him
Shied at dead sticks all day.
His pace he would not haste or slacken,
This slithering death that flowed
So confidently from the bracken
And made to cross the road . . .
That lifeless now, endures the least
Of meaner things instead —
The myriad ants that find a feast,
The blowflies round his head.
VIC.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Time Means Tucker
By H. P. (“DUKE") TRITTON
Illustrations chiefly from contemporary issues of The Bulletin,
Both of them 19-year-olds, the writer and his mate Dutchy have set out from
Sydney in 1905 on a breezily adventurous wander about the N.S.W. outback,
learning to become shearers, doing fencing contracts and having a go at gold-
digging, singing and taking the hat round in the towns, boxing in show-booths,
meeting picturesque characters, and generally getting to know the bush and bush
folk, and taking life as they find it. They have gone by boat to Newcastle, headed
west from there, tramped from station to station for shearing jobs or travelled the
country with Ruenalf’s boxing-show, had a go at gold-digging and droving,
and, with their track-mate Arthur, have now arrived in time for an occasion
at Box Ridge.
ON Christmas Day and
Boxing Day we were at
Box Ridge. The picnic,
which was combined
with sports and finished with a
dance at night, was an annual
affair, and had been an attrac-
tion at Box Ridge for over
20 years. Visitors came from
50 miles around. Despite, or
because of, the fact that there
was no pub the event was
always a great success.
In those days we had to
make our own sport, commer-
cialised sports being unknown.
So most people could do some-
thing in the athletic line that
suited their age-group. „ We
had the Toddler’s Derby, the
Married Women’s Cup, the Old
Buffer’s Sprint, and the Grand-
mother’s Handicap. Granny
Ingles said, “The old buffers
have always been great handi-
caps, to the grandmothers.”
All the women agreed that
Granny was right.
The more serious events were
keenly contested. All events
were based on one-shilling
entry-fee and winner take the
lot. Tossing the caber;
stepping 100yds. ; hop, step,
and jump ; high-jump and
broad-jump ; and foot-races at
all distances, with so many
entrants that they had to be
run-off in heats.
I won the high-jump, which
was always a long-suit of mine,
and was content to stroll
around the rest of the day with
my chest stuck out. Ben won
the caber-tossing, after a hard
contest, and Dutchy won rhe
120yds. foot-race. He and Ben
had a crack at pretty well every
event on the programme, but
won no more. We were satis-
fied that we had upheld the
honor of Walla.
Arthur, whom we had per-
suaded to renew his wardrobe,
took no part in anything, but
was happy strolling about
parading his new clothes,
though no amount of dressing
could improve Arthur’s looks.
And, though nearly all the
people, went out of their way
to treat him as one of their
friends and give him a good
time, we kept a close guard on
him. There was always one of
the three near him in case some
of the young chaps who had
brought along a bottle of grog
might take it into their heads
to poke fun at him.
HPhere was an incident in the
late afternoon. Several
young chaps from Coonamble,
who had had a few drinks,
were making a nuisance of
themselves, in the manner of
their kind, strutting around,
hoping everyone would mistake
them for full-grown, tough
men.
A few of them got Arthur
away, and tried to make him
have a drink of whisky. Ben
saw them, and walked over. He
said gently: “This bloke is a
mate of mine, and he don’t
drink.” He then took the
bottle, which was half-fuli,
pulled out the cork, and poured
the contents on the ground.
Several of us had arrived by
this time, and there were no
protests from the owner of the
whisky.
There were never any police
at the Box Ridge picnics. The
citizens had their own method
of dealing with any man, be
he squatter or swagman, who
tried to disturb the friendly
air of the picnic. He would
be surrounded by a dozen men
and given the option of fighting
any one of them or behaving
himself. If he chose to fight,
and won, he would have to
fight again till he had beaten
the lot. So, as no one would
care to take on these condi-
tions, there was very little
drunkenness, and few fights.
Ben Bridge, a periodical
drinker who would stay on the
booze until he got the
“horrors,” said afterwards:
“You know, I reckon the
hardest thing I’ve ever done
was pouring that good whisky
on the ground. Don’t think
I’ll ever forget it. I’m so
flaming dry my skin is crack-
ing.” Dutchy misquoted,
“Greater love hath no man
than he who wastes good grog
for his mate.”
The dance was the most
popular event of the picnic. It
put the finishing-touch to a
perfect day. The hall was big
enough to allow 30 couples to
dance in comfort, and twice
that number had to be accom-
modated. So the older people
danced slow waltzes, polkas
and the stately varsoviana in
the hall, while the younger
set did the lancers, quadrilles
and waltz-cotillions out on the
grass. The moon was nearly
full, and there was plenty of
light, but to make it more
impressive hurricane-lanterns
with colored paper tied around
them added a nice touch to
the scene. Several caught fire
and burst, but no one worried
about trifles like that, except,
perhaps, the owners of the
lamps.
There was no lack of
(■Continued on page : 34)


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
25 O’CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone
BW 8171 (3 lines)
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
11 3 Pitt St.,
Sydney
Telephone: BL 1987
Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,’’ Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
’Wales and A.U.C.
'T'he underpinning of an
organised short - term
money-market in Australia
advanced a step further last
week with the announcement
of the Bank of New South
Wales’s acquisition of interests
in the Australian United group,
in Melbourne.
The ’Wales has acquired a
12 p.c. interest in Australian
United Corporation, Ltd., for
an investment of £150,000,
representing 200,000 ordinary
shares of 10s. each at a
premium of ss.
H. C. C. Marshall, g.m. of
the ’Wales, said that the bank
had also acquired a 40 p.c.
interest in Australian United
Development Pty., Ltd., a sub-
sidiary of Australian United
Corporation, which provides
medium and long-term finance
for development purposes. The
investment in this company was
£200,000, representing 200,000
£1 shares at par.
Australian United Corpora-
tion, through other subsidiaries,
engages in underwriting of
public issues by semi-govern-
ment bodies and companies,
investment in public com-
panies, and other forms of
finance.
The Australian United group
and the Development Finance
Corporation (reviewed in B.
28/1/’59) are the principal
corporate bodies so _far to
announce their interest in this
short-term money-market.
Two or three firms of share-
brokers, or their corporate
associates, are likely also to
receive central-bank accredita-
tion.
In July last year it was stated
that Australian United Accep-
tance was increasing its paid
capital, A.U.C. taking an addi-
tional 500,000 partly-paid
shares.
The Acceptance co. is a
borrower and lender of short-
term money, but will accept
deposits for longer terms as
well. A large part of the funds
will be invested in gilt-edged
securites, but as the supply of
bills for discount and other
short-term paper grows, a
greater proportion of the funds
will be invested in this way.
Australian United Corpora-
tion itself, until the ’Wales
came in, wholly-owned Aus-
tralian United Development,
as it still does Australian
United Enterprises, has a con-
trolling-interest in Australian
United Acceptance, and partly
owns A.U. Underwriting Corp.
Australian United Corpora-
tion has a background dating
from 1948, when Tokenhouse
Pty., Ltd., was formed in the
Potter stable in Melbourne and
“Oh, the new boss is all right, Mabel—just eccentric !”
earned substantial profits from
sub - underwriting activities
through a subsidiary. It also
accumulated a wad of public-
co. investments.
In 1953 Australian United
Underwriting Co. Pty., Ltd.,
was formed by Tokenhouse,
with members of the firm of
lan Potter and Co. subscribing
for a minority shareholding. At
this point Tokenhouse changed
its name to Australian United
Investment Co., Ltd.
In 1957, Australian United
Underwriting Co. was floated
into a public co. under the
title of Australian United
Corporation, and sharehqlders
in Australian United Invest-
ment Co. were offered one 10s.
share at par in the recon-
structed co. for every two ords.
(or B ords.) they held.
At the annual meeting of
A.U.C. in Melbourne last
November chairman lan Potter
said that Australian United
Acceptance was preparing for
rapid expansion, and its out-
standings had grown to
£2,880,000. Much had already
been accomplished in widen-
ing activities in the short-term
money-market. This had in-
volved discussion and negoti-
ation with banking, financial
and commercial interests in
Australia and overseas. One of
the “interests” at this stage was
no doubt the Bank of N.S.W.
Australian United Enter-
prises had acquired interests in
44 public cos. during the year
to June 30 last at a cost of
£BBl,OOO and had a market-
value at balance-day of
£936,000.
A.U. Development, in which
the ’Wales will have a 40 p.c.
interest, provides finance for
growing businesses not listed
on ’Change. Equity- or loan-
capital can be provided; at
June 30 last £350,000 had been
advanced, including the
amount involved in the acquisi-
tion of Charterhouse Aust.
Pty,, Ltd.
In Melbourne, following the
announcement of the tie-up
with the ’Wales, the 10s. f.-p.
ords. in Australian United
Corporation were sought, at
30s. The 10s. ords. in Aus-
tralian United Investment Co.
were quoted at 165., buyer.
U.K. Trade Agreement
[From Canberra]
'The much-vaunted Anglo-
Australian Trade Agree-
ment, signed last year, and
advertised as putting trade on
a fair and equitable basis after
years of hamstringing under the
Ottawa Agreement, doesn’t
seem to be working as well as
some Australian officials hoped
it would.
Because of this, top-level
talks aimed at stimulating that
trade will be held in Canberra
later this year.
Although the Government is
saying nothing on the matter
yet, the British Minister for
Trade, J. Vaughan-Morgan,
will hold the talks with the
Australian Minister for Trade,
John McEwen.
Mr. Vaughan-Morgan is
coming to Australia later this
year, ostensibly to attend the
Queensland centenary celebra-
tions, but the real purpose of
his-* visit is the talks with
McEwen.
The whole operation of the
present agreement will be
reviewed in the light of about
12 months’ experience.
Despite the fact that it was
anticipated that when the
agreement came into operation,
Australia would receive a
greater proportion and fairer
share of .UK. trade, the reverse
is happening.
British purchases of Aus-
tralian goods have been declin-
ing, particularly in the wool
industry, and Japan is fast
looming as Australia’s best
overseas customer.
The Government is expected
to announce details of Mr.
Vaughan - Morgan’s visit
shortly.
Placer Development
“Principally because of the
low world price of metals
and depletion of the high-grade
Pato (South America) areas,
consolidated net profit of Placer
Development, Ltd., and its
wholly - owned subsidiaries


k
m
X.
'*& f .n
Let A.N.Z. BANK make all your
travel arrangements
Their travel experts will be happy to attend to sea and air bookings,
accommodation, assist you with tax arrangements, passport and visas
—in short, every detail of your trip. Travel abroad with the knowledge
that everything is handled reliably through A.N.Z. BANK.
Money for Travel
Whenever you travel, carry A.N.Z. Bank Travellers’ Cheques. Readily
encashable, they are the safe, convenient way of carrying money.
Travellers’ Credits, which enable you to draw money at A.N.Z. Bank
branches and agents throughout the world, are also available, if desired.
A.N.Z. Bank Travel Service is available through every branch of
AN Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ANZS36.24SER
dropped to the equivalent of 94
cents a share ($2,433,718 alto-
gether) during the term to April
30, 1958, compared with $1.39 a
share ($3,599,070) in the pre-
ceding year. A dividend of 50
Canadian cents was paid by
Placer, compared with $1 in
the preceding year.
Canadian Exploration
Of the wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries, Canadian Explora-
tion, Ltd., milling 409,138 tons
of ore with a head-value of
1.48 p.c. lead and 3.93 p.c.
zinc, attained an average of
about 90 p.c. extraction and
earned a net profit of
$1,095,800, compared with
$1,672,300 in the preceding
year. Low prices were received
for tungsten production. It
paid no dividend during the
year.
In March the smelter put the
mining co. on a quota of two-
thirds its 1957 average ship-
ments, and concentrates had to
be stockpiled. From May 1 to
October 31 this year Canadian
Exploration showed a $137,819
loss as a result of this stock-
piling and the low prices for
lead and zinc, plus the termina-
tion of the tungsten contract.
Since October 31, following
an improvement in lead prices,
all lead concentrates stockpiled
have been sold, and hopes are
held for a clearance of the zinc
stockpile soon as well as
“reasonable percentage of cur-
rent production.” Under these
circumstances a reasonable
overall profit is anticipated
from lead-zinc production.
The tungsten property and
stockpile are being kept on the
ice until prices recover to a
satisfactory level.
Merritt (8.C.) Copper
Canadian Exploration is now
Placer’s chief subsidiary (a
long step from the boom days
of Bulolo!), and in June it
entered into an agreement with
an operating group and Craig-
mont Mines, Ltd., whereby,
after repayment of develop-
ment expenses to the various
parties, profits distributed from
the “promising” copper ore-
body in the Merritt area of
British Columbia will go 43.5
p.c. to Canadian Exploration.
Surface diamond - drilling
indicates 13-million tons of
probable ore going 1.85 p.c.
copper and nine-million tons
going 1.49 p.c. copper.
Mattagami Zinc
Canadian Exploration has
also a 22.2 p.c. interest in a
high-grade zinc prospect in the
Mattagami Lake area of
Quebec which has an estimated
14-million tons of ore assaying
13.72 p.c. zinc.
If these properties develop to
expectations they should be
good profit-earners under nor-
mal prices for base metals.
Coronet Oil
Coronet Oil was a smaller
contributor of profits largely
because oversupply of oil has
led to lower prices and curtail-
ment of production. An active
search for additional oil
resources is still going on.
Other Exploration
American Exploration • and
Mining Co. (wholly-owned)
continues to look-over proper-
ties from the Middle West and
West Coast of the U.S.A. to
the Philippines and Hong
Kong, and has a net deficit of
$656,691 exploration-costs on
ventures abandoned.
But it is expenditure of this
kind which has produced such
golden Placer dividends in the
past.
Clutha
Clutha Development con-
tinues to mine coal at the Foy-
brook/Newdell (N.S.W.) open-
cut, bought from the Common-
wealth Government. Opera-
tions have resulted in a small
loss. Clutha has been looking-
over N.S.W. beach-sands with
a view to suction-dredging, but
the plant has been closed down
following the slump in the price
for titanium minerals. Active


REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
I pa...
yrs.
ASSETS EXCEED
£55,000,000
PAID UP CAPITAL
a'
£10,000,000
Our Auditors, Messrs. L. B.
Wallace & Son,. Chartered
Accountants (Aust.) wish to
state that as at the 31st July, 1958,
the amount of Issued Debenture
Stock was £23,346,000 secured
by First Floating Charge over
the Tangible Assets of the Com-
pany which at book value
exceeded £55,000,000 at that
0
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly income,
free of exchange
For full details , see Prospectus: your copy available
from Members of Stock Exchanges , 703 Branches of
A.N.Z. Bank Limited or I.A.C. Branches.
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne,
Canberra & Sydney.
Trustees (or the Debenture Stockholders:
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees
Association of Australia Limited.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Established 28 years)
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART
CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
WOLLONGONG
GEELONG • BUNBURY
PI 07/27
v/EST
'Sr
SEC
exploration for other minerals
has gone on during the year
in Australia and New Guinea.
New Guinea
Among the associated com-
panies, Placer has a \2\ p.c.
interest in Bulolo Gold Dredg-
ing, which earned a lower
profit from dredging and
hydraulicking. Common-
wealth-New Guinea Timbers
earned a lower profit also, but
a debit for duty payable in
respect of plywood imported
into Australia is regarded
more-or-less as being in sus-
pense, and a claim has been
made on the Commonwealth
Government for the amount
of the debit.
Pato and Asnazu
With the depletion of Pato’s
high-grade areas in Colombia,
South America, profits fell
from 84 cents per Pato share
to 30 ’cents a share. “A
stepped-up exploration pro-
gramme is presently being
carried out by Pato in various
parts of South America.”
Liquidation of Asnazu is
nearing completion.
Overall Outlook
On- April 30 last Placer’s
holdings in associated com-
panies, apart from wholly-
owned subsidiaries, had a
book-value of $3,636,015, and
a market-value (where listed)
of $6,019,534 (plus the value
of unlisted shares).
Placer itself has an issued
capital of 2,580,000 shares of
no-par-value, and a share-
holders’ -equity (consolidated
figures) of £15,406,551, apart
from $4,669,675 of other
reserves. It has net liquids and
semi-liquids of over $ll
million, plus the associated
investments already referred to.
Taken together, these cover
shareholders’ equity, apart
from mining assets, which have
been written-down to $4.9 mil-
lion, including exploration
charges.
At 945. a share on Austra-
lian Exchanges the sharemarket
gets net current assets of
roughly around six Canadian
dollars a share, or, say, 555.
On this basis it is paying much
less for prospects than it is
for cash in hand and market-
value of its listed investments.
Development of the Mattagami
zinc interests will be watched
with keen interest during the
coming year, as well as ,the
Craigmont copper prospect.
Either or both could have a
major influence on Placer’s
future. The trend of the
metal market, of course, is of
profound importance.
Myer’s and' Brownells
A nyone wanting to keep
abreast of the ramifica-
tions of inter-State commerce
is going to need a thumb-index
to the takeovers. It had better
be, as well, a loose-leaf job
with ample provision for more
of the absorptions that are
coming so swiftly. The old
familiar names of large
retailers, especially in the
smaller capitals, are beginning
to have less meaning. There
is no fiction of local control in
the negotiations for the Myer
takeover of Brownells, Ltd.,
the Hobart department-store.
The deal provides that
Brownell directors will, if
required, resign and give way
to Myer nominees.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“My Fair Lady”
Stepping out of Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Melbourne,
into the blazing sunshine to get
a breather, the Bulletin com-
mentator ran into Shaw, who
was seeking refuge from the
heatwave in a milk-bar. Wish-
ing to test the great man’s
linguistic knowledge he greeted
him in the hearty Australian
fashion: “Owareyermateor-
right?”
Getting out his notebook
Shaw muttered: “Orrong
Road, Toorak; Melbourne
Grammar, Ormond College,
Rhodes Scholar, Oxford, pro-
bably barrister-at-law. Joined
the Labor party as a Left-wing
intellectual, may possibly be
Leader of the Opposition.
Talks like that to show he's
one with the masses.”
“There’s no deceiving you,
Mr. Shaw,” said the comment-
ator. “You may be a trifle out
in detail, but in principle
you’re quite right.”
“I always am,” Shaw said.
“What do you think of the
job Messrs. Alan Lerner and
Frederick Loewe have made of
your play?”, asked the com-
mentator.
“Excellent! Excellent!”
“But I understood, that you
once refused permission to turn
your play into a musical on the
grounds that its verbal music
could not be bettered.”
“I’ve said everything that
could be said on everything,”
Shaw said. “In any case,
Loewe hasn’t bettered my
music. I’ve bettered his. And
Mr. Lerner hasn’t bettered my
wit and wisdom: I’ve bettered
his. Do you imagine for a
moment that he could have
written those amusing lyrics if
he had never met me?”
“I didn’t know he’d ever met
you.”
“Just like a critic —how
literal! He has obviously read
the play, and the play’s me.”
“I’m sorry,” said the com-
mentator. “But what about the
dancing, the elaborate settings
of Ascot and Covent Garden,
the revolving stages and all
that stuff? What do you think
of them?”
“Magnificent. What beauti-
ful legs the girls have—and
don’t they know how to use
them! As for the revolving
stages, anything that facilitates
the work of the artist is O.K.
by me —as it would have been
by Shakspeare.”
“But don’t they constitute an
unwarrantable intrusion on
your story and the wonderful
argument that runs through
it?”
“Most people become bored
by an argument after five
minutes, and mine lasts for
three hours. They deserve a
rest, poor souls.”
“And what is your argument,
Mr. Shaw?” asked the com-
mentator. “I don't suppose the
public understands it really,
any more than I do.’-’
“Of course they don’t. The
gala opening proved that. As
a demonstration of the very
social snobbery my play
exposes, it could hardly have
been bettered. It even required
a sweltering heatwave to give
the gentlemen sufficient:
courage to strip themselves as
naked as the ladies, who, obey-
ing the dictates of fashion,
arrived with scarcely any
clothes on at all.”
“Then what is your idea?”
“I’ve made it plain enough,
surely. The most important
difference between a duchess
and a flowergirl is their accents.
The duchess is not an aristo-
crat in any real sense. Her
great - great - great-grandfather
may have been. He may have
been a commoner who carved
himself out a dukedom with
his own strong right arm and
sword, but a hereditary duke
isn’t like him. Strip him of
his castles, his revenues, his
titles and his accent, and what
differentiates him from his
ploughman, who might be a
Bobbie Burns for all he knows?
I attack rank from the same
angle as I attack universities.
It was my family’s poverty
which saved me from a uni-
versity education, so I was
compelled to find my univer-
sity inside me . . . But let my
play speak for itself—the bell
is ringing.”
“But please, Mr. Shaw,
before we go in,” said the
commentator ; “as his creator,
what do you think of Pro-
fessor Higgins?”
“Robin Bailey—good! Posi-
tively inspired!”
“And Eliza?”
. “00-ee-oouw! Charming.
Bunty Turner is that rare bird,
an intelligent actress.”
“Colonel Pickering and
Eliza’s father?”
“Good, good.”
“And the production?”
“Superb.”
“How do you explain it?”
“Very simply,” said Shaw.
“Napoleon said there are no
bad soldiers, there are only
bad officers. I say there are no
bad actors, there are only bad
playwrights.”
“But what do you think of
all this undignified ballyhoo
which preceded the produc-
tion?”
“I used to be pretty good
at that myself,” snapped the
playwright as he disappeared
inside the theatre. “I didn’t
mind what people said about
me as long as they said some-
thing.”
M. G. Skipper.
“Dalgerie”
The Festival of Perth’s opera
season opened at the Somer-
ville Auditorium with the world
premiere of Westralia’s first
opera, “Dalgerie.”
Written by James Pem-
berthy and based on Mary
Durack Miller’s novel Keep
Him My Country, it opens with
Dalgerie, the iubra heroine,
dying among her people ; then
tells in a set of flashbacks the
story of her hopeless love of
a white stationhand ; how she
scorned her betrothal to one of
her own race, was cursed, and
left her station in despair
singing to her “country” to
“Here's your bottle back, Grandpa."


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA. •
No. <317 of 1958.
Matrimonial Causes.
TO GILBERT JOHN McCANN formerly
of Como Western Australia.—TAKE
NOTICE that your wife IVY GER-
TRUDE McCANN has commenced pro-
ceeding against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for divorce
on the ground of desertion by you for
a continuous period of three years or
more and seeks the exercise of the
discretion of the Court under section
27 of the Matrimonial Causes and
Personal Status Code 1948-1957 If you
desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within FORTY clear days from the date
of publication In default of your so
doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce Judgment and
make . orders against vou in your
absence. FRED CURRAN & FERRIER,
of 37-38 Padbury Buildings, Forrest
Place, Perth, Western Australia, Solici-
tors for the Plaintiff. DATED this 22nd
day of January, 1959. —G: J. BOYL-
SON, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction.
TO LESLIE EDWARD CROWHURST
late of Enfield in the State of New
South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
PATRICIA MAY CROWHURST has filed
a petition for divorce Number 4GBO of
1958 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause of excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 10th day of April 1959 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG & CO.,
Solicitors, of 160 Castlercagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO SYDNEY FREDERICK LIPPOLD
late of Islington.—TAKE NOTICE that
LORNA BETTY LIPPOLD has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3221 of 1958
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Macquarie Street Syd-
ney by the 9th day of April 1959 and
obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge from' CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALBERT SYDNEY BURRELL late
of Coff’s Harbour— TAKE NOTICE that
BETTY MAE BURRELL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2300 of 1958
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 9th day of April 1959 and obtain
a copv of the petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New
South Wales. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Me
&
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
’Phone: BWIOII, BWIOI2, 8W4991
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of General Insurance
Directors:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman)
S. E. A. STIRLING. JAMES H. STEPHENSON.
R. G. GALE. RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND
Managing Director
O. S. PETTERSEN,
Manager
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
keep her white man magically
united to her. One feels at the
end that, though he thought
she was dead, her singing has
left him restless with desire for
her.
Conducted by Stefan Haag,
with haunting offstage choruses
led by John Farnsworth Hall,
Pemberthy’s music powerfully
expressed the moving quality of
the story and the lonely vast-
ness of its setting.
Joy Mammen, as Dalgerie,
caught the heroine’s tragedy in
every note ; and Elizabeth
Durack’s decor stark corru-
gated-iron, rocks, pandanus-
trees and sagging fence —was
harshly evocative.
M. S. A.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Orpheus Descending”
After seeing Tennessee
Williams’s latest play, at the
Ensemble Theatre, North Syd-
ney, one’s general reaction is:
brilliant theatre, the characters
grouped in varying patterns
like highly colored butterflies—
but butterflies which the play-
wright has nailed to the wall
with shafts of violence. In
effect, Williams is saying:
“Look at these people; they
suffer, but they can’t' escape.
They’re bitter, and who can
blame them?”
Most of his subjects ooze
degradation. He is concerned,
in this play, with exploiting
human failure. “Orpheus” is
set in a small southern U.S.A.
town ; Williams turns the spot-
light on the woman proprietor
of a general store, who, hiring
a “geetar-playing” ex-jailbird,
finds him willing in more ways
than one. Her husband is an
invalid, and (conveniently)
spends most of his time up-
stairs in the care of a young
nurse.
All sorts of. things can
happen in a general store, and
Williams makes sure they do.
The proprietress, Lady Tor-
rance, sick of caring for a
husband she wishes dead, has
an affair with her new em-
ployee. Simultaneously, the
religious crackpot wife of the
town sheriff calls and pours out
her heart to Xavier, the em-
ployee ; the sheriff discovers
them standing together, imme-
diately draws a black con-
clusion and from then on
keeps a careful eye on Xavier.
Xavier lives for the guitar
and doesn’t really want to
become involved with Lady
Torrance or, for that matter,
with any other woman. But
Williams would be slipping if
he couldn’t make a pivot out
of a comparatively sane
person.
In the final analysis Lady
Torrance fails doubly:
although pregnant to Xavier,
she loses the scant friendship
of the townspeople, and later
loses her life. Her sick husband
fails: tottering down the stair-
case, he shoots Lady Torrance
and then screams that Xavier
is the murderer. The sheriff
and his rough allies fail: they
roar like beasts and brutally
kill Xavier —and the sheriff
realises that this action reveals
him as inhuman. About the
only person who doesn't fail is
the nurse, who wakes-up to her
mistress’s relationship and
gets out early.
Colorful and tight portraits
from Clarissa Kaye, as Lady
Torrance; Kevin Dalton, as
Xavier ; Wayne Polzin, as the
sheriff, and Robin Lawlor, as
his wife. A host of others give
active support —notably Sophie
Krantz, sour-faced as the
village slut, and Joe Jenkins,
as Uncle Pleasant, an aged
negro used by Williams as a
symbolic figure of impending
trouble.
But only the passage of time
will allow a considered view of
the play: whether Williams’s
variations are inspired or
whether they are merely clever
and cruel invention.
A. W.
Artbursts
Drawings
A show of drawings at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries
seems to lack any particular
reason for existing. It is pleas-
ing enough to wander about it,
noticing that Roland Wakelin’s
tinted shed and interior have
a severity strangely contrasting
with the opulence of his oils ;
wondering exactly what is to
be gained from John Coburn’s
spikes and Thomas Gleghorn’s
“Landscape” when the color is
missing ; faintly approving of
Imre Szigeti’s faint windy day
and Cedric Flower’s adaptation
of Dufy to Circular Quay. But
a show of drawings needs
either fineness or freshness to
hold it together, and, except in
Lloyd Rees’s rocks and (less
certainly) Drysdale’s character-
sketches, here you hardly get
either the one or the other.
Films
“Vertigo”
In his usual manner Alfred
Hitchcock begins this thriller
with slow deliberation (but
never any suggestion of
“drag”), develops the complex


NEW M.L.C. SERVICE
The M.L.C. Fire and General Insurance Co. Pty. Ltd., a subsidiary of the
Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance Company Limited, has commenced
business. The M.L.C. can offer you the facilities of comprehensive
FIRE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE
This extension of activities of the M.L.C. enables you to have all your insurance
needs handled by one great organisation a service you will find of great
convenience. All classes of Fire and Accident Insurance are available, including:
FIRE
HOUSEHOLDERS
HOUSEOWNERS
PROFITS
BURGLARY
PERSONAL ACCIDENT
PUBLIC LIABILITY
FIDELITY GUARANTEE
GLASS
MOTOR
EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITIES
The New Zealand Insurance Co. Ltd. is the Managing Agent for the M.L.C. Fire and
General Insurance Co. Pty. Ltd. throughout Australia and New Zealand. Enquire from
any office of the New Zealand Insurance Co. Ltd., or the M.L.C. Life Office or from
their branches and Field Representatives.
THE M.L.C.
MLC.24.HP
plot with great skill, creates an
atmosphere of inexorability,
develops two big climaxes
and winds it all up, leaving no
loose ends.
Detective James Stewart,
after recovering from an acci-
dent caused by his fear of
heights, is assigned by a
businessman to keep a close
watch on his wife because
of her supposed suicidal
tendencies. He rescues her
once, and they eventually fall
in love ; but during a visit to
a Spanish mission in California
she jumps off a tower, his
vertigo making him powerless
to stop her. At the inquest
the coroner slates him for
laxity.
Then he meets her double,
and, convinced it is the same
girl, he starts on the trail of
an ingenious wife-murder plot;
the tempo increases, with
another climax in the same
mission-tower.
James Stewart, who can hold
his own with anyone in this
kind of role, is easy and
relaxed as the detective. Kim
Novak, doubling as murderer’s
accomplice and department-
store employee, does her best
work yet.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
*l* ❖ ♦>
“The Gipsy and the Gentle-
man”
A costume - melodrama,
poorly directed and badly
colored, about an English
aristocrat who, with his gipsy
mistress, plots to disinherit his
sister. Melina Mercouri,
laughing in a strong bass-
baritone and talking in a
husky whisper probably meant
to convey voluptuousness, is
the gipsy; and Australian
Keith Michell has the hopeless
part of the swaggering villain.
Greater Union Theatres.
■*&
“The Key”
In this finely sensitive film,
director Carol Reed and script-
writer Carl Foreman handle
a delicate theme with an appre-
ciation of human values and a
warm understanding of the
needs of men whose hazardous
work makes them fatalists
eager to snatch what comforts
life has to offer them.
Set in the early days of the
last war, it tells of the captains
of Britain’s ocean-going tugs,
whose job was to tow back to
port the “lame ducks”
freighters torpedoed in convoy
but still somehow afloat. These
ocean-rescue scenes are
brilliantly devised.
Trevor Howard, hard-bitten,
dryly philosophical, acquires,
by a traditional arrangement
among his fellow-skippers, the
key to a flat, to be used only
when the current occupant
“gets his” ; with the flat goes
Sophia Loren, a Swiss refugee
who accepts the arrangement
placidly, finding in each suc-
cessor some quality to her
liking. When he becomes con-
vinced that his own days are
numbered, that his astonishing
luck can’t possibly hold,
Howard selects as his successor
William Holden, an American
captain with whom he has
become friends. When Howard
is killed Holden moves in;
but various tensions have to be
overcome before mutual affec-
tion grows in the new partner-
ship.
Trevor Howard has never
been better, going straight to
the core of the character.
Holden is satisfactory; and
Sophia Loren gives a well-
judged account of a difficult
role.
At Sydney State.
❖ ❖ *l* ■
“Cat on a Hot Tin Roof”
Director Richard Brooks
gives plenty of punch and
power to this screen-version of
the Tennessee Williams play,
clarifying the complexities of
character, maintaining a fair
pace and winning from his
players acute and sometimes
distinguished performances.
Stealing top honors is Burl
Ives, who acts with remarkable
subtlety and insight as Big
Daddy, the overbearing master
of his Southern acres who at
65, even while boastfully
planning a new amorous con-
quest, is struck down by a
fatal malady.
Another fine portrayal comes
from Paul Newman, as the
younger crippled-footballer son
who seeks in whisky an ano-
dyne for his various frustra-
tions, and who ironically
comes to know his tyrannical
father’s better nature only
when it is too late.
Elizabeth Taylor is surpris-
ingly good as Maggie the Cat,
flashing from soft affection to
flaring bursts of temper as her
bitter husband scorns her
advances.
Judith Anderson, as Big
Mamma, gives an excellent
account of bewilderment at the
dawning knowledge that the
husband who has tolerated her
for 40 years is doomed;
Madeline Sherwood outlines
with waspish viciousness the
cheap, money - grubbing
daughter-in-law; and Jack
Carson is the cowardly elder
son, Gooper, driven by his wife
to use his lawyer’s training to
get hold of the dying father's
estates.
The screenplay sticks fairly
closely to the stage-play,
though the treatment of sex-
frustrations has been some-
what bowdlerised. The
dialogue is natural and force-
ful, and there are touches of
sometimes grim humor.
At Sydney St. James.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownbills.”
Telephone: BYV 1465 <8 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
{A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BIV 1771 —BYV 8088
The WILD CAL
COLUMNS
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
nPHE difficult conditions encountered in
recent years by several of Queensland
Insurance Co.’s overseas branches haven’t
interrupted a healthy run of record-
breaking profits. Last term the co.
chalked-up its twelfth successive gain to
show net earnings over twice the size of
the 1951 figure and almost three times the
1946 figure.
Nevertheless, intense competition and
the compulsory ceding to Government-
sponsored offices of a proportion of
premiums have skimmed some of the
cream off overseas business, and the board
last year reaffirmed its intention of con-
centrating “more than ever” on expansion
in Australia, New Zealand and the South
Sea Islands.
Since then the Queensland has contri-
buted to the increasing entanglement of
life and accident offices by outbidding the
U.K. Royal-Globe group for the share-
capital of Equitable Probate and General
Insurance Co. Primarily a life-office
(there is a small general department),
Equitable Probate and General has a paid
capital of £111,317, most of which is in
10s. ords. paid to Bs. Approximately 20
p.c. of the scrip had been acquired by the
Queensland before that co. made its
successful offer (38s. 6d. for the f.-p. ords.
and 365. 6d. for the contribs.), and the
overall cost, paid, or to be paid, in cash,
will probably work-out at well over
£450,000.
Equitable Probate and General is
registered in Brisbane and has branches
in N.S.W., Victoria, South Aust. and
Tasmania. Last year it collected close to
£8(70,000 in life premiums and over
£200,000 in investment and sundry
income, to finish the term with non-life
reserves of £72,509, an investment-
fluctuation reserve of £35,000 and a life-
fund surplus, after allocating £162,620
for bonuses, etc, of £192,168. The life
fund stood at £3,977,796.
On its own account, Queensland
Insurance reckoned net premiums for the
year to September 30 last at £4,457,815,
or £262,120 higher than in the preceding
term. Heavy claims under third-party
(motor-vehicle) and workers’-compensa-
tion policies again took most of the profit
out of this side of the business and con-
tributed to a 345. p.c. rise in the loss-rate,
the major part of the underwriting-
surplus coming, apparently, from the fire
and marine departments. More encourag-
ing was the 265. p.c. cut in the expense-
rate, achieved after charging an extra
£41,929 for land income and other taxes
and particularly commendable as the fifth
successive reduction:
Net ' Loss Expense
Sept., Premiums. Claims. Expenses.* Rate. Rate.
£ £ £ p.c. p.c.
1954. .3,119,449 1,651,667 1,197,171 52.9 38.3
1955. .3,570,955 1,913,830 1,328,439 53.6 37.2
1956. .3,898,890 2,290,246 1,338,472 58.7 34.3
1957. .4,195,695 2.420.200 1,436,431 57.7 34.2
1958. .4,457,815 2,648,204 1,493.970 59.4 33.5
* Includes contributions to staff fund, but excludes
taxes, etc., on returns from investments.
After increasing the reserve for unexpired
risks by £175,000 (down £25,000) to a
conservative 63.37 p.c. of net premiums,
the underwriting-surplus edged forward to
£140,641, an improvement of £1577 over
the year.
The net return from investments was
£23,604 fatter at £385,866 and covered
the 12| p.c. div. with £73,366 to spare,
net profit from all sources rising by
£25,181 to a record £526,507:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3.840,649
To reserve unexpired risks, £150,000 3,990,649
1954.. 370,932 12J p.c. -187,500 183,432 4,174,081
To staff fund, £15,000 4,159,081
From inner reserves, £200,000 .. 4,359,081
To reserve unexpired risks, £225,000.. 4,584,081
1955.. 400,845 12J p.c. =187,500 213,345 4,797,426
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 4,777,426
Revaluation freeholds, £500,000 .. 5,277,426
Reserves capitalised, £500,000 .. 4,777,420
To reserve unexpired risks - , £175,000 4,952,426
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 4,932,426
1956.. 426,633 12-J p.c. =187,500 239,136 5,171,562
To reserve unexpired risks, £200,000 5,371,562
To staff fund, £30,000 .. .. 5,341,562
1957.. 501,326 121 p.c. =289,062 212,264 5,553,826
To reserve unexpired risks, £175,000 5,728,826
To staff fund, £30,000 5,698,826
1958.. 526,507 121 p.c. =312,500 214,007 5,912,833
In terms of share-capital, the profit rep-
resented a return of 21 p.c. (investments
15.4 p.c., underwriting 5.6 p.c.) compared
with 21.6 p.c. (15.6 p.c. and 6 p.c.) on the
lower average capital employed in 1956-
57.
Sponsored by Burns, Philp and Co., the
Queensland wrote its first contracts in
1886 and, today, is the largest of the Aus-
tralian-owned accident offices. The co.
underwrites fire, marine and accident risks
outside its home-territory through
branches in N.Z., U.K., Canada, Africa,
Fiji, India, Singapore, as well as through a
world-wide chain of agents. Bonus-issues,
of which the most recent was a one-for-
three handout in 1956, have provided al-
most half of the £2,500,000 paid capital,
the first call to shareholders in over 40
years going out in 1951, when opportun-
ities for rapid expansion led to a one-for-
one par issue. This was followed by
another par-issue (one-for-three) in 1956,
paid capital rising by 233 p.c. in a little
over six years without disturbing the 12{
p.c. div.-rate.
As far as the Queensland is concerned,
there’s no place like home at present, for
insurance business —at least that appears
to be the tenor of certain remarks made
by chairman James Burns at the last
annual meeting—and, to judge from the
increasing spread of local and overseas
insurance interests, the co. is by no means
alone in the opinion. Well equipped, in
the way of both finances and “connec-
tions” to meet what promises to be in-
creasingly keen competition, the Queens-
land could show total assets with a book-
value of over £12,500,000 at September
30 last, the deduction of liabilities, etc.,
leaving net assets at £8,599,084:
f 1957 v 1958- N
p.c. p.c.
Govt, securities £3,933,227 33.1 £3.903,972 31.2
Cash, etc . . 772,720 6.5 845.036 6.7
Shares, etc. .. 2,627,G90 22.1 3,025,113 24.1
Mortgages . . 1,229,179 10.4 1,279,313 10.2
Book debts .. 1,377,568 11.6 1.412,903 11.3
Freeholds . . 1.933,523 16.3 2,061,205 16.5
Total assets ..£ 11,873,907 100.0 £12,527,542 100.0
Liabilities* . . 3,637,736 3,928,458
Net assets .. £8,236,171 £8,599,084
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies, but
excludes final div.
In the investment of funds, last term, there
was a continuation of the drift from
Government securities to shares, deben-
tures, etc., Government securities slipping
from 33.1 p.c. to 31.2 p.c. of total assets
while shares, etc., climbed from 22.1 p.c.
to 24.1 p.c. of the same figure. “Invested
funds” grew by £618,300 to £11,114,639
and this advance, as well as the varia-
tion in the investment-pattern, should
ensure a further improvement in invest-
ment. income.
In addition to protecting policyholders,
the solid reserves offer shareholders a
high degree of security, while the practice
of reinvesting underwriting-profits
strengthens the chances of future gains.
With these facts well in mind, the share-
market prices the f.-p. £1 ords. at 695. to
return £3 12s. 6d. p.c. from a p.c. div.
Net tangible cover at September 30 was
675. 4d. including 225. 7d. represented by
the £2,825,000 reserve for unexpired risks.
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. ( Aust.)
TTopes that Petroleum and Chemical
Corporation (Australia), Ltd., may
yet atone for the poor display it has
given over the five years since incorpora-
tion have revived sharemarket interest
in the scrip, and the £1 ords., which sold
for as little as 9s. 3d. in April, 1958,
fetched 245. 3d. last month. Recent bids
have fluctuated between 18s. and 215.,
and buyers are currently offering around
20s.
The Sydney - based P.A.C.C.A.L.
originally hoped to earn its bread from
the sale of oil-gas to Australian Gas


G. H. PARTRIDGE & CO.
Ij. D. PARTRIDGE, A. G. HANSON
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ilf? Pitt Street, Sydney Telephone: BJL 5031-2
Telegraphic &: Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. E. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
Light Co. (of Sydney), with the jam to
come in later from the development of
petrochemical products and markets. The
petrochemical tag, applicable, mainly, to
future operations, caught the imagina-
tion of many investors, and even before
the co. got into commercial production
(January, 1956) it was able to issue scrip
at a 25 p.c. premium to meet the excess
of plant-costs over the figure envisaged
in the prospectus.
Hit firstly by defects in the high-
temperature cracking-plant and, more re-
cently, by the application of a price-
fixing formula which, at present, takes
most of the profit out of gas-sales, the
co. has accumulated losses and in-
tangibles of £281,500, against which it
can show £166,075 of share-premiums.
The £1,992,900 paid capital is all in ords.
However, a number of interesting
possibilities and they are no
more than possibilities lend some
support to the optimistic attitude
adopted at last month's annual
meeting by the chairman of the co.,
stockbroker lan Potter. The more im-
portant of these spring from negotiations
for the sale to “a well-known, world-
wide organisation” of large quantities of
ethylene (a basic raw-material in the
manufacture of polythene), and from in-
vestigations being carried out with Mon-
santo Chemicals into the economics of
producing styrene-monomer in Australia.
The extent to which both of these
projects will be affected by the establish-
ment of a petrochemicals industry in Vic-
toria is, as yet, uncertain. (Vacuum Oil
announced last week that it would under-
take the manufacture of synthetic rubber,
and supply ethylene to a C.S.R.-Dow
Chemical Co. offshoot, for the manufac-
ture of polystyrene, and to Union Carbide,
for the production of polyethylene.)
Greatly improved recoveries of
aromatic light oils (from which
P.A.C.C.A.L. plans to produce benzene,
toluene and xylene) will enable the
manufacture of solvents, in conjunction
with Bitumen and Oil Refineries, to
begin shortly, while arrangements have
been made covering a process up-grading
the light and heavy tars now being turned-
out in increasing quantities.
If successful, these projects would give
a much-needed diversity to the hitherto
restricted scope of operations. At the
same time, they will call for extra funds,
and loan-money is being sought,
privately, to finance the manufacture of
solvents, while, if the styrene-
monomer proposals prove practicable,
P.A.C.C.A.L. shareholders will no
doubt be invited to contribute towards
the capital cost. Monsanto has already
agreed to find 55 p.c. of the finance
needed.
At June 30 last P.A.C.C.A.L. would
have been hard put to find any surplus
funds, for, although the accumulated
provision for depreciation was greater
than the relatively small capital - loss
(Is. 2d. a share), the balance of the
capital, along with a large part of the
£500,000 debenture-loan, was tied-up in
the co’s. highly-specialised plant, leaving
current liabilities £77,967 greater than
current assets:
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £1,826,206 £1,992,825 £1,992,900
Reserves .. .. 166,075 166,075 166,075
Debenture .. 500,000 500,0.00 500,000
Overdraft . . .. 209,629 66,040 140,226
Creditors, etc. .. 398,384 285,270 196.199
£3,100,294 £3,010.210 £2,995,400
Fixed assets .. 2,540,904 2,504,179 2,454,440
Investments .. 1,002 1,002 1,002
Stocks, stores .. 184.165 119,179 160,184
Book-debts, etc. . . 94,918 119.525 95.221
Cash .... 70 45 53
Intangibles .. 279,235 200,250 281,500
£3,100,294 £3,010.210 £2,995,400
Book - debts slipped by £21,304 last
term, and, while the provision for depre-
ciation exceeded capital-expenditure by
approximately £50,000, the co. had to
draw on the bank for a further £74,186
to cover a £41,005 increase in stocks and
an £89,071 reduction in creditors.
Up £69,146 at £1,521,881, sales were
equal to little more than 76 p.c. of share-
capital and, largely because the selling-
price of oil-gas (the main source of
revenue) moves with the cost, to Aus-
tralian Gas Light of coal-gas, profit-
margins fell sharply. Operating profit,
before charging depreciation, dropped
from £181,380 to . £130,074, of which
administrative expenses took £45,294
(down £3131), a smaller provision for
depreciation (£lOO,OOO, down £20,000)
sending the co. into the red to the tune
of £15,220:
To Re-
June Loss. ,, — serves. Deficit.*
30, £ p.c. £ £ £
Prelim, exp., etc., £83.326 83,326
1954.. 15,870 99,196
Share-issue expenses, £12,500 111,696
1955.. 29,351 141,047
f Share-issue exp., etc., £17,437 —• 158,484
1956 -j 120,751 279,235
L Share-premiums, £166,075 113,160
Profit.
1957.. 12.955 12,955 100,205
Loss.
1958. . 15,220 115,425
* Including intangibles, £281.500 at .lime 30, 1958.
A small (£12,955) profit was shown in
the preceding term, charges to establish-
ment account in prior years being in-
cluded with losses in the above table.
The contract with Australian Gas
Light has been modified by an interim
agreement expiring next June, but,
judging by trends in the coal-industry,
there is little chance of oil-gas contri-
buting much in the way of profit this
year. Sales of solvents, tars and, pos-
sibly, ethylene could all help to put the
co. on a better footing next term but,
even if all goes well, dividends appear
to be a while off, with the immediate
outlook somewhat obscured by possible
implications of the developments in
Victoria.
Australian Blue Metal, Ltd.
r T"HE small absolute fall in A.B.M.’s
earnings last term disguised a larger
relative fall on the higher capital, which
was augmented by a one-for-five par issue
during the term.
Most of the £150,000 of new share-
money has gone into fixed assets which
are only now starting to produce their
fair share of revenue and with the
£300,000 of notes issued since the close
of books heralding a further upbuilding
of potential, it would not surprise if this
slight , decline in the earning-rate is
speedily arrested.
The 20s. notes are of the convertible
variety and most attractive, too. They
were issued at par on a one-note-for-
three-shares basis, carrying 8 p.c., and
exchange one-for-one for ords. in
October, 1963. In the meantime, they
participate in any cash- or bonus-issues.
Now, here is an intriguing considera-
tion. A.B.M.’s 20s. shares, which hit an
all-time ceiling of 565. last year, are still
565. for a yield of 5.4 p.c., and the notes
are around 455., offering a yield of 3.6 p.c.
to conversion. A.B.M. is a good per-
former, but it is difficult to see the justi-
fication for this latest upsurge of investor-
enthusiasm.
Australian Blue Metal, Ltd., is not
only a quarryman of good standing, but
also dabbles, not unsuccessfully, in auto-
motive distribution. In fact, its sub-
sidiary, Diesel Motors, Pty., with its
exotic collection of agencies—Bentley-
R.R., Porsche, Mercedes, Renault and
Gardner diesel engines—last term took
up much of the slack caused by a decline
in Sydney and Perth blue-metal sales.
The actual fall in consolidated pre-
tax profit was £42,107, and is only partly
attributable to the improved allowances
for depreciation, which was charged at
£114,695 (up £21,205). A taxation pro-
vision of £87,000 (down £32,800) left net
profit £9207 lighter at £181,575, repre-
senting 20.2 p.c. on capital, compared
with 25.4 p.c., 26.7, 29.3, 21.5 p.c. back to
1954. The larger capital absorbed
£135,000 for an unchanged 15 p.c. divi-
dend, and the rate of retention fell rather
sharply:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends— \ serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1958.. 90,09.') 10 p.c. = 50,000 40,095 98,595
1954.. 107,951 10 ~ „ 50.000 57,981 151,570
1955.. 140,532 124 „ ~ 62,500 84,022 235,008
Added on consolidation, £10,217 .. 245,825
Pre-acquisition profits, £35,000 .. 280,825
Prelim, expenses written-off, £1648 .. 279,177
1950.. 200,405 15 p.c. =112,500 87,905 307.082
Added on consolidation. £4OB . . 367,490
1957.. 190,882 15 p.c. =112.500 78,382 445,872
Added on consolidation, £950 . . 440,828
1958. ~ 181,575 15 p.c. =135,000 40,575 493,403
* Subject to intangibles, written-out in .1956.
Since the public took a hand in 1952,
there has been one other share-issue
besides last year’s, a one-for-four affair
in 1956.
Australian Blue Metal originated as a


L,
M
Every professional
man owes it to him-
self and his family to
enquire about “Table
32.”
INCOME
PROTECTION
for
Professional
Men
PERSONAL
ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS
INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
Westralian proprietary which
extended its interests to New
South Wales about 20 years
ago. There are now numerous
quarries working throughout
Australia. The auto-offshoot,
which is itself from the same
stable the parent, was
acquired in the 1956 term for
£lOO,OOO of share capital.
On June 30 last, finances
were a little tighter ; but they
have since had the assistance
of the note-money to help in
any fixed-asset expenditure:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958.
Paid capital . . £750,090 £900.000
Reserves . . 445,872 493,403
Overdraft . . 42,732 119,687
Creditors . . 141,175 199,801
Tax provision . . 119,868 86,425
Dividends . . 112,500 135,000
£1,612,147 £1,934,316
Freehold, etc. ~ 170,537 188.275
Plant, etc. . . 864,723 1,028,981
Stock . . . . 308,507 431,647
Debtors . . 367,529 284,604
Cash .. .. 851 809
£1,612,147 £>,934,316
Fixed assets, freeholds and
plant, are at 1951 valuation
plus additions at cost less
depreciation. In the past five
years their book-values have
doubled and the 1957-58 addi-
tions amounted to £296,691,
which, after deducting £114,695
provided for depreciation, left
a net increase of £181,996 over
the previous, year. At the end
of the year, shareholders had
a visible net tangible equity of
30s. lid. in the business.
Cellulose Australia, Ltd.
South Australian paper-
board - manufacturer,
Cellulose Australia, Ltd., has
been gathering in at
quite an impressive rate over
the last half-dozen years or
more, but shareholders con-
tinue to rank well below the
co.’s various expansion pro-
jects when it comes to the
apportionment of earnings.
This state of affairs seems
likely to continue for a few
years yet as the co. is currently
committed to the establish-
ment of a new mill designed to
turn-out tissue-paper from
South Aust. softwoods. An
equal partner with Australian
Paper Manufacturers, Ltd., in
this venture, Cellulose Aus-
tralia will put £600,000 of
share-capital into a jointly-
owned co., Apcel, Ltd., over
the next three or four years
and expects most of this sum
(only £96,875 short of its own
paid capital) to come from
“internal funds.”
If the healthy state of the
co.’s finances and recent earn-
ing-rate are any guide, there
shouldn’t be much difficulty in
financing the outlay but, in the
meantime, the div.-rate may
well be pegged at the current
10 p.c. level to ease the task.
On a 10 p.c. basis, the f.-p.
£1 ords. would return
£3 19s. 2d p.c. at 50s. 6d. and,
on last term’s showing, the
earnings-yield at this price
would be an attractive
£lO 13s. 4d. p.c.
The capital-cost of the soft-
woods project was originally
estimated at £1,500,000, of
which the South Aust.
Government was to have
advanced £500,000. However,
the two cos. are now working
on an outlay of around
£2,000,000, with the £BOO,OOO
over and above share-capital
to be raised by private loans.
Formed shortly before the
1939-45 war, Cellulose Aus-
tralia finally got into full-scale
production in 1943, the first
div. (4 p.c.) going out in 1946.
In 1952, when the div.-rate had
ieached 7 p.c. and output was
steady at about 8000 tons of
board a year, the co. went to
the public for a further
£160,000 of ord. capital, con-
verted 126,875 of debenture
money into 5 p.c. prefs. and set
about the reconstruction and
extension of the miil-plant.
Plans announced in 1954 indi-
cated an expected output of
approximately 16,000 tons of
board annually, by the end of
1959.
A one-for-two par issue early
in 1957 took paid capital to
£696,875 (including the
£126,875 in 5 p.c. prefs.), but,
despite the increase in capital,
retained earnings have pro-
vided the bulk of the funds
called-for by the expansion
programme, two-thirds of the
profit won over the last six
years going back into the busi-
ness.
Output continued to climb
last term and, with turnover,
rose by around 15 p.c., the
greater volume of business
assisting in the absorption of
slightly higher costs. Actual
sales aren’t disclosed in the
accounts but would appear to
have been in the vicinity of
£1,140,000, net profit advanc-
ing by £14,836 to a record
£153,511 after providing
£85,000 (up £1000) for taxa-
tion and £52,357 (up £9468) for
depreciation:
r Dividfiids N Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref v Ord. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
5 p.c.
’54.. 120,753 6344 84 = 32.254 299,263
’55. .126,279 6344 9 = 34,200 384,998
’56. .122,302 6344 9 = 34,800 466,756
Share-issue expenses, £4OlO 462,746
’57.. 138,675 6344 10 = 40,850 554,227
’58..153,511 6344 10 = 54,625 646,769
Little or no return can be
expected from the Apcel invest-
ment for some years yet and,
with portion of the fresh share-
capital received last term tied-
up in the new venture, earnings
grew at a slower rate than
average ord. capital, the earn-
ing-rate, after allowing for
pref. divs., slipping below 30
p.c. (to 26.9 p.c.) for the first
time in four years. Increased
from 9 p.c. to 10 p.c. in the
previous term the div.-rate was
steady at the higher level.
The £93,986 of new share-
capital (final call on scrip
issued in 1957) strengthened an
already comfortable position
and, although the co. spent
£42,491 more on fixed assets
than it provided for deprecia-
tion and paid £60,002 on scrip
in Apcel, it was still able to lift
working-capital by £93,382 to a
strongly-liquid £426,836, giving
a current assets-current liabili-
ties ratio of over 3:1: —■
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £126,875 £126,875
Ord. .. .. 476,014 570,000
Reserves .. 554,227 646,770
Replacements, etc. 94,536 103,782
Overdraft . . 40,623 -—•
Creditors . . 53,884 83,789
Tax provision . . 84,880 90.853
Final divs. . . 28,822 31,672
£1,459,861 £1,653,741
Land, buildings,
plant . . . . 918,198 960,689
Shares . . . . 60,002
Stock . . . . 293,209 322,609
Debtors . . . . 242,127 217,501
Cash, etc. .. 6,327 92,940
£1,459,861 £1,653,741
At balance date, reserves,
including a £103,782 provision
for “replacements and other
contingencies,” exceeded paid
capital by £53,677, the £1 ords.
having a net tangible asset
backing of 465. 4d. of which
3s. Bd. was represented by the
replacement-provision.
Fenwick Holdings, Ltd.
prospectus, issued
early last year, gave
promise of good things to
come, and results for the first
year have been so far from
disappointing expectations that
the ss. ords. are already com-
manding nearly a 100 p.c.
premium.
The investigating accountant
had estimated that profit for
the year ended June 30, 1955,
was equal to 25.6 p.c. on the
present paid-up capital of
£150,000 after allowing for
current public-co. taxation.
For 1956 it was 23.7 p.c.; 1957,
28.7 p.c.; and last year it was
31.9 p.c.
The p. and 1. figure for 1958
was £47,780, cleared after
£10,946 had been allowed for
depreciation, and £28,000 for
income tax.
The dividend for the half-
year to June 30 was a cautious
5 p.c., and probably nothing
more substantial than an
annual 10 p.c. will be the por-
tion of shareholders in the
immediate future. A long-term
fleet-replacement scheme will
probably take care of Fen-
wick’s spare cash for some time
to come.
Fenwick Holdings is a tug-
owner, operating a fleet of eight
tugs in and around Sydney,
Newcastle and Port Kembla.
The business dates from the


HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE
& INVESTMENT CO. LIMITED
Paid-up Capital, £700,000
Assets exceed £1,350,000
TERM DEPOSITS
Bearing interest at the following rates per annum: —
3 months • • • • 5%
6 months... SVi%
9 months .. •• 6%
12 months • • 6 Va%
13 months & over 7%
INTEREST PAYMENTS: Quarterly - at the
end of March, June, September, December.
We report that the latest audited Balance Sheet of
Hastings Deering Finance & Investment Company
Limited, prepared at 30th June, 1958, discloses Net
Tangible Assets as follows:
Total Tangible Assets as stated in the
Audited Balance Sheet £1,365,289
LESS: Secured Liabilities ..£250,518
Unsecured Liabilities .. 325,913
576,431
NET TANGIBLE ASSETS £788,858
G. T. Hartifian & Co., Chartered Accountant* ( Aust.)
Complete printed details, Application Forms —
HASTINGS PEERING FINANCE
& INVESTMENT CO. LIMITED
William and Crown Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone: FA 0322
And all members of Sydney Stock Exchange HD523
ELECTRIC
LIFTS hydraulic
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. - FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
’nineties, as do some of the
vessels still in service.
The main point of interest in
the first published balance-
sheet is the book-value of the
fleet. This is at 1948 valuation,
plus additions at cost, less a
fleet-replacement reserve which
now amounts to £119,344.
Also included is £69,652 of
progress-payments on a new
diesel tug which is shortly to
go into service:
1958.
Paid capital ~ .. £150,000
Reserves .. .. .. 155,024
Creators 23,716
Long-service provision .. 7,873
Taxation provision .. 28,000
Final dividend .. .. 7,500
£372,113
Freeholds .. .. .. 4.118
Fleet 241,873
Plant, etc. . . . . .. 907
Shares other companies .. 8,226
Stocks . . . . .. 3,564
Debtors .. . . .. . 22,408
Cash .. .. .. 33,756
Intangibles .. .. 57,201
£372,113
Quite obviously, tugs are an
expensive proposition on
present-day values; and the
p.c. duty and 5 p.c. primage
levied on vessels of U.K.
origin under 500 tons gross
doesn’t help matters. On the
other hand, locally built ships
of under this tonnage don’t
qualify ' for the 33y p.c.
Commonwealth subsidy. It
is hoped, however, that a forth-
coming Tariff Board inquiry
will lead to a reclassification
as far as tugs are concerned.
The £150,000 of ordinary
stock, of which only about
£25,000 in ss. units is held by
the public at large, is well-
backed by reserves. Allowing
for £57,261 of intangibles, net
tangible cover at balance-date
was Bs. 3d., but fixed assets are
probably very conservatively
valued. The latest sharemarket
price was 9s. 6d. ; yield, 5.3
p.c.
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.
Tf the Federal Government’s
efforts to promote the use
of indigenous sulphur-bearing
materials are ever successful- —
and the Tariff Board last year
had another look at the
problem of making them suc-
cessful the efficiently -
managed Norseman Gold
Mines, N.L., could become a
far more profitable proposi-
tion than it is at present.
Meanwhile, although the co.
remains a moderately-profit-
able div.-paying concern, out-
put and earnings are limited by
competition from imported
brimstone and the reluctance,
understandable in existing cir-
cumstances, of acid-manufac-
turers to convert their plants
to take pyrites. Gold-produc-
tion at the Westralian mine
ceased in 1947, and since then
the co. has concentrated on
working big pyrites deposits on
the Iron King leases.
Improvements in mining and
treatment processes have led to
considerable reductions in both
costs and selling-prices over
recent years, but, with the plant
working at only one-third
capacity, the board considers
that further reductions can only
come from a greater through-
put.
Over the year to October 31
last, the heavy-media separa-
tion plant handled 114,651
tons (down 4577 tons) of ore
averaging 22.8 p.c. sulphur, as
against 23.1 p.c. in the pre-
ceding term. The sulphur-
content of the little-changed
88,025 tons treated slipped by
2509 tons to 18,532 tons, and
realised an average of £16.46
a ton compared with £15.81 a
ton in 1956-57. Sales of
crushed ore ceased in June
1957:
Total
Year. Sulphur
Oct. Content, Average
ST, Tons. Proceeds. Per Ton.
1953 .. 25,509 624,852 £24.44
1954 . . 24,999 487,430 19.50
1955 .. 21.983 401,328 18.25
1950 . . 21.835 374,096 17.13
1957 . . 21,041 332,007 15.81
1958 . . 18,532 305,014 10.46
Increased wage-rates, the loss
of the crushed-ore market and
the lower grade combined to
raise working-costs, excluding
development, by Is. 7d. to
455. 7d. a ton.
Non-pyrite income, includ-
ing an undisclosed capital-
profit and proceeds from the
sale of 14,439 tons of „ re-
crushed heavy-media discard,
took total income to £326,742
(down £11,170). Working-
costs claimed a somewhat
larger proportion of this total,
and although expenditure on
development and exploration
was cut by £7490, net profit
felt by £4882 to £40,029, after
providing an extra £823 for
tax (£14,523) and a practically
unchanged £12,500 for depre-
ciation: —
Year.
Oct. P.c. on
31, Profit. Capital./—-Dividend.—,,
1953. . £62,049 33.1 20 p.c. = £37,500
1954.. 47.098 25.1 20 „ = 37,500
1955.. 491820 20.5 20 „ = 37,500
1950.. 49,281 26.2 20 „ = 37,500
1957.. 44,911 23.9 20 ~ = 37,500
1958.. 40.029 21.3 20 „ = 37,500
Steady at 20 p.c., the div., pay-
able next month, will take all
but £2529 of the earnings, a
quarter of the payout coming
from tax-exempt income. A
royalty on pyrites, of Is. a ton,
was introduced towards the end
of the term and, on present
production, would amount to
nearly £2OOO over a full year.
The margin between earnings
and the present level of divs.
could be further diminished if
the W.A. Government imple-
ments its decision to remove
the 12y p.c. subsidy on rail-
freights.
Estimated at 1,986,000 tons
averaging not less than 25 p.c.
sulphur, proved ore-reserves
would take over 17 years to
work through at last term’s
rate of throughput, and, with
another 1,571,000 tons of pro-
bable ore around, no effort was
made to prove additional
reserves. Diamond-drilling in
the south-west of the Mararoa
gold-prospect revealed the
limited nature of values
reported in the previous term,
but further drilling in the area
is contemplated.
The co. increased its share-
holding in Ravensthorpe
Copper mines, N.L., during the
year by the purchase (for
£5393) of 80,000 10s. contribs.
paid to 7s. Current market-
value of the scrip would be in
the vicinity of £12,000. The
300,000 f.-p. vendor shares,
acquired previously, are in the
accounts at £17,500.
When the books were ruled-
off there was £194,953 in
current assets (excluding invest-
ments), of which stores, etc.,
accounted for £56,714, the pro-
posed div. taking total liabilities
to £95,713.
Paid capital is £187,500 in
f.-p. ss. shares, the scrip selling
last week at Bs. Bid. cum div.
On an cx-div. basis the yield
from a continued 20 p.c. div.
would be 12.9 p.c. Books close
on February 9.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN ARTHUR DAVEY late of 58
High Street Harris Park. TAKE
NOTICE that JESSIE DAVEY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3694 of 1958
on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and of habitual drunkenness
and failure to support during three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court .Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
3rd April 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
HERALD E. QUINN, Solicitor, of 52
Phillip Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY. Chairman ; F. W. DUESBURY, Deputy
Chairman; ALFRED S. WHITE, A. G. PARKER.
H. H; MOULTON, Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Branches in all Stales.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
"VTow that Parliament has re-
assembled for what may
be its last session, feelings on
both sides are ultra-sensitive.
Labor, always on the lookout
for a chance to lambast the
Conservatives, is taking heart
at the Gallup Poll findings
which, no doubt because of
higher unemployment in mar-
ginal constituencies, show
neither party in special favor.
Here Mr. Gaitskell’s tactical
problem is to be selective, since
he well knows that the familiar
scares and parrot - cries
invariably rebound to Labor's
disadvantage. A much bigger
task is to convince his party
that out-and-out, old-fashioned
Socialism is a dead duck so far
as the electorate is concerned
and that Labor’s future rests
on an appeal with a more
bourgeois foundation.
The Conservatives are hope-
ful, but their confidence is
tempered with caution. It will
improve, no doubt, when the
effects of seasonal unemploy-
ment have worked-off. There
are rumors, too, of coming
reductions in purchase-tax as
a further stimulus to consump-
tion.
If, in the public-relations
field, they have a set p-e-
-occupation, this can be
expressed by one word,
demeanor. Realising that the
electorate is impatient of
politicians, there is a con-
scious effort to project the
image of a cool leader who gets
on with the job and who is
utterly classless It must be
said, in truth, that the image is
amazingly solid and lifelike.
The party image, on the
other hand, is less attractive,
particularly to the Central
Office. Bournemouth East, for
example, is a continual
embarrassment. The present
member, Mr. Nigel Nicolson,
differed with the Government
over Suez. Indignantly spurned
by the constituency’s officers,
Mr. Nicolson refuses to stand
down, upholding the M.P.’s
duty to act according to hi*
conscience and not according
to the bidding of his consti-
tuency. Lord Hailsham has
gone down to try and make the
peace.
This is only to say that both
parties fear the wrong image:
with Mr. Gaitskell it is the
cloth-cap, with Mr. Macmillan
it is the “traditional ruling-
class.”
Mostly-British Aluminium
The take-over affair and its
repercussions have thrown the
City under a heavy shadow.
For once, the detached, genteel
and secret method of working
which distinguishes the finan-
cial Establishment has failed.
The dizzy sequence of events,
from secret treaty to outright
battle, has not only left the
City smarting from unwel-
come exposure but has also
split it personally, and
bitterly.
What was the essence of the
matter? Simply that the direc-
tors of British Aluminium
could not countenance an
association with Tube Invest-
ments and Reynolds.
Once the cat was out of the
bag, every move was a des-
perate one to pacify the share-
holders, who had not only
learned that a secret deal with
Alcoa had been arranged
behind their backs but who
also felt that their dividends
might justly have been higher.
Nor was their loyalty to the
B.A. board strengthened by the
intervention of the 14
City houses who pleaded an
unspecified “national interest”
and offered 82s. a share for
half-holdings, the other half
to be “frozen” until March.
(As part of the secret deal, B.A.
had offered Alcoa a one-third
interest at 60s. a share.)
The B.A. directors’ prime
error was to close their eyes
to a basic truth —that the share-
holders own the business —
until it was too late. If the
shareholders had been kept
acquainted with long - term
developments and proposals
they would probably have
supported the board.
They have, of course, made
handsome profits, but are now
without their long-term stake
in aluminium. B.A. directors
have lost prestige as Well as
the fight. And T.I. may have
paid highly for its victory.
What is important is that the
aluminium industry needs
enormous capital for its
expansion (the Australian ven-
ture alone will call for £lOO
million) and most of this back-
ing must come from the United
States. The City interests,
while recognising this fact, are
obviously frightened at the
thought of full control of
industry passing to American
hands through steamroller
tactics. In this instance, they
may have panicked needlessly,
for the 51-49 per cent, division
leaves nominal control in
Great Britain. And, even if
the interest were 50-50, would
it matter?
Innocents in the Jungle
“The Long and the Short
and the > Tall” (Royal Court
Theatre) is a realistic, anti-war
tragicomedy, set in the
Malayan jungle in 1942, by a
29-year-old script-writer, Willis
Hall. Edinburgh saw the play
as “The Disciplines of War”
and Nottingham as “Boys It’s
All Hell.” The new title,
borrowed from the pop.-song
lament, “Bless ’em All,” is not
unfitting, for the dramatis
persona; is a batch of con-
scripts, diverse in character
and origin.
A routine patrol brings these
seven uneasy men into a hut.
Two only appear to be good
soldiers, the sergeant, a hefty
man with natural power of
command, and the corporal, a
fine soldierly figure but dis-
contented and brutish. The
rest are, in the words of one
of them, “Fred Karno’s Mob,”
made up of: a priggish,
idealistic Scot, given a stripe
because he is the least un-_
suitable ; a simple-minded
Welshman from a slum ; a
taciturn but uninterested Lan-
castrian family-man ; a verbose
and insubordinate Cockney
spiv; and the R/T operator,
a nervous, immature ■ York-
shireman. The radio-battery is
giving-out and fails to corn-
municate with HQ, but
Japanese voices, becoming
stronger, are received, point-
ing forebodingly to the ulti-
mate tragedy.
Mr. Hall knows his barrack-
room chatter, which he con-
veys graphically and with
subtle euphemism. His dialogue
and situations are extremely
funny. The men are thou-
sands of miles away from
civvy-street but nowhere in
particular. Their calamitous
detachment and unreadiness
for jungle—or any other war-
fare are more tragic even than
their inevitable doom.
A touch of real inspiration
attends the eighth character, a
stray Jap who drifts into the
hut and who, amid much con-
fusion, is made prisoner. He
is a sad, mute little man,
frightened almost to death,
whose only reaction is to pro-
duce photographs of his wife
and children. Originally wel-
comed as a prize of the foray,
to be taken back as a spoil of
war, the terrifying change of
circumstances leads to second
thoughts. He must be “dealt
with.” Sheer funk and
callousness affect the patrol,
save only the Cockney who
defends the Jap’s life with an
outbreak of wilful disobedience
so uncontrolled that, at a
time when discipline and cool
heads are essential, chaos
instead results. One man
shoots the Jap in panic and
the tell-tale explosion gives the
men’s position away. They
rush out into the jungle to
be picked out and butchered
except one, the least likely,
who staggers back to impro-
vise a white flag and save his
skin.
Mr. Hall 'turns on no overt
propaganda. His dramatic
reportage suggests the tragic
futility, in human terms, of
the unpreparedness of the
defences (aggravated, too, by
complacent announcements to
the contrary) and the employ-
ment of inexperienced troops.
The scruffiness of his characters
and the absence of officers
deny this play the dignity and
nobility of “Journey’s End”
but otherwise it is comparable
in poignancy and dramatic
fluency.


FISHER’S GHOST
SOME BALLADS FROM A PLAY
By DOUGLAS STEWART
Prologue
Hear a story of Australia,
One _of the olden time.
Of how a ghost sat on a fence
And took revenge for crime.
Fisher’s Ghost Creek was where it sat,
One mile from Campbelltown :
They buried Fred Fisher in a hole there —•
You can’t keep a good man down.
He was a ticket-of-leave man,
Came out by the ship Atlas;
His slayer was also a convict,
He -had no fellow-feeling alas.
In the dark night he waylaid him
Then sprang at him with a batten,
So Fisher was thought to be missing,
A dastardly thing to happen.
Then out of his grave sprang Fisher
It was a welcome change —
And on that fence by Fisher’s Creek
He waited for his revenge.
Hear a song of Australia,
Now every year by year
The night that he was murdered
Does Fisher’s ghost appear.
Fisher’s Ghost Sings
Oh who was it who did me in
And then concealed my body?
He crept on me in the dead of night
And woodened me with a waddy.
Was that a friendly thing to do,
The action of a mate?
The dirty scoundrel did me in
And left me to my fate.
Oh where is Frederick Fisher now,
In what white paddock lost,
When I am all that Fisher is
And I am Fisher’s ghost?
I fought my way in this hard world
Out from a convict’s fetters;
I got myself a hut and a horse
And a farm of thirty acres.
And must I float in moonlight now
And leave it all behind me?
Let him beware who stole my life
For they shall come and find me.
Then let him flee by land or sea
Or over the mountain range
Or let him stay in Campbelltown
But I will have revenge.
But who is he that did the deed
And sent me such a tumble?
He came and hit me such a crack
I never .saw the scoundrel.
He hit me such a crack I lost
All recollection of it;
l know a cove who it might be
But how the deuce to prove it?
Oh bring him here on horse or foot
Or bring him here in chains
But I will wait in the pale moonlight
Till J have my revenge.
He thinks He hid my body safe
But 1 know where he hid it:
I’ll make that villain swing for this —
But who’s the man that did it?
The Constable’s Song
There’s rumors round at Campbelltown,
There’s dark suspicions running
From businesses in Sydney Cove
To farms at Bunbury Curran.
For in the street and in the pub
Where Fisher walked and drank
He walks no more and on his farm
The sun shines white and blank.


Fred Fisher was an old-time lag
Who once wore legirons jingling,
He might have broke liis ticket-of-leave
And slipped away to England.
He might have gone —but no ship sailed
When Fisher disappeared
And in the pubs at Campbelltown
A tragedy is feared.
There is a man at Campbelltown,
They whisper and remember.
Who called on Hammond the carpenter
To sell him Fisher's timber.
He said when Fisher sailed abroad
He left it him to sell ;
But where and how did Fisher sail?
They say he knows too well.
And when good Hammond told that man
The rumors that he’d heard,
Oh he went white with fear they say
And could not speak a word.
Yet round the town with greasy smile,
Close watched by man and woman,
That man still walked and on a day
Rode out to Bunbury Curran.
It was to Mr. Coddington
And he had no remorse.
The horse he rode he tried to sell
And it was Fisher’s horse.
*
There’s rumors round, there’s rumors
round.
There’s whispering and alarm
For when he’d stole the wood, the horse,
He tried for Fisher’s farm.
And bold he rode to Sydney town
Past constable and trooper
And asked for Fisher's title-deeds
From Mr. Daniel Cooper.
He said that Fisher left him all
His property to inherit —
But what would Fisher say to that
And what would Fisher’s spirit?
Fisher Calls Up His Murderer
So now the truth is out at last, -
What I suspected most ;
It was George Worrall did the deed
And / am Fisher’s Ghost.
Where are you, George, where are you,
George,
I want to see you. Worrall.
Come out of the night and find me now
Or dodge me at your peril.
It’s not that I would scare you, George,
I'd never do you harm.
You were a kind of mate of mine,
You helped me on my farm.
You were a friendly kind of cove,
Yon rolling old rum-barrel.
Fond of your grog and an old moil’s
love —
You’ll need them now, George Worrall.
It’s not that I would touch you, George,
It's not that I would quarrel.
But here I am in the moonlight night
And l must see George Worrall.
Worrall’s. Defence
Whoever did Fred Fisher in ~-
It never was George Worrall,
A man who was loyal to his old mate,
A kindly man and a moral.
And yet George Worrall saw the deed
And now will Worrall tell,
George Laurence was the guilty man,
Bill Pike was in it as well.
You know George Laurence and Billy
Pike,
Old lags they were and vicious,
But sometimes in the Black Sheep Inn
Both drinking-mates of Fisher’s.
And they conceived this vicious plan,
They’d do hi hi in for. his money
And dig a hole in the dead of night
And there conceal the body.
Out of the inn walked Fisher that night
When he had finished his drinking,
And after Fisher along the road
I saw those shadows slinking.
I saw them there with a stick or an axe,
I saw them hit at something ;
1 cannot see in the dark and the fog,
Oh, what is that you are thumping ?
Oh, who is it you’re killing there
In this dark midnight meeting ?
—lt is a dog, said Billy Pike,
It is a dog we’re beating.
Oh, woe the deed and woe the night
That I should take his word;
It must have been Fred Fisher then
That they did thump so hard.
Stay, stay your hands, I should have said
If only I had said it ;
It is Fred Fisher you have killed
And / will get the credit.
Fisher to Farley
(The man who saw Fisher’s ghost sitting on
the fence.)
The moon is in the sheoak trees
The wind is in the barley ;
The shallow grave is by the creek
And you’re the man, Joe Farley.
Some may go to the Black Sheep Inn
And some may drink their toddy.
But you’re the man must walk in the
night
And find Fred Fisher’s body.
The moon’s white hand is in the sky
And come you late or early,
Dig in the paddock by the creek
And I’ll be there, Joe Farley.
The Blacktracker’s Song
There is a thing that l have found
In the creek of Fisher’s ghost
Would make a white man blench with
fear
And a black man run, almost.
It is a creek like other creeks
(Fisher’s ghost is lonely)
That sleeps on sandy beds for weeks
Or stumbles where it's stony.
Through paddocks brown, through crops
of corn
(Oh where is Fisher now ?)
I followed it and thought it knew
A thing no creek should know.
I saw the little clear brown pool
(Oh where is Fisher buried ?)
Where water-beetles chase the sun
And dragonflies are married.
I saw the floating water-spinners
( What’s that beneath the rocks?)
Whose shadows lie on the sand below
Like footfalls of a fox.
The moon was on the standing- corn
(Fisher’s ghost is lonely )
And every pool and easy turn
The creek was white and moony.
I took a sheaf, l stripped the leaf
(Dead man’s fat floats up)
And skimmed that cold white water there
And drank it like a cup.
Lord come and wash you, little creek,
From mountain to the coast,
For I have drunk a dead man there
In the creek of Fisher’s ghost.
The Hanging of Worrall
Where are you, George, where are you,
G eorge,
Oh can’t you hear me singing ?
Come out of the night wherever you are,
l want to see you swinging.
You were a kind of mate of mine,
You’d never do me harm,
And you followed me from the Black
Sheep Inn
And murdered me for my farm.
You followed me in the dead of night
And waited under the gumiree
And knocked me down with a batten,
G eorge,
A shame to all the country.
You sold my cows and my horses, too,
The good bay mare and the sorrel,
And you stole the cash in the biscuit-tin,
And you shall pay, George Worrall.
Oh there are crowds in Sydney Town,
The hard old lags and the soldiers,
And you shall hang in the gallows-tree,
A joy to all beholders.
The bearded sailors, the immigrant boys,
The drabs and the starving Irish,
They’ll fill themselves up with grog this
day
And cheer as they watch you perish.
Listen, I hear the beating drum,
Listen, I hear the bell,
And splashing across the old Tank
Stream
The crowd climb up the hill.
They climb the hill to the Blue Post Inn,
They line The Rocks for the view,
And they’ll drink and yell as they see
you swing
And good enough for you too.


instruments or players,
Accordions, concertinas, fiddles
(they were never called violins)
mouth-organs and tin-whistles,
Sometimes one player would
get out of tune and throw the
dancers into confusion, but it
only added to the fun. It was
long after midnight when we
stood in a circle and, clasping
hands, sang “Auld Lang Syne.”
And we all meant it.
VA7E cut-out the Walla fence
at the end of January.
Several fencing-contracts were
offered, but our gang broke-
up. Ben went to Queensland
with a mob of bullocks, and
Arthur reckoned he’d be on
the move again. When I asked
casually where he thought of
making, he answered,
“Dunno.” 1 knew his answer
was final, so did not press him
to be more definite.
He had £l5 due to him, and
I did not like giving it to him
in a cheque, as he seemed to
have no idea of the value of
money. So I got Frank
Dowling to give it to me in
cash. I advised Arthur to put
some in each pocket, as I
thought this was the best way
of ensuring that someone did
not get the lot in one lump.
When he was ready to go he
shook hands firmly, and said:
“Goodbye, boys, men may
meet, though mountains
never.” This made Dutchy
and I scratch our heads, be-
cause during the time he was
with us his conversation had
been limited to a few words,
mostly concerned with the job
in hand. Neither of us had
heard the quotation before
(and I have never heard it
since), so we wondered where
he had picked it up.
He rolled his good clothes
in his swag, and he left as he
came, a gaunt, ragged figure,
looking straight ahead, and
keeping a direct line north. We
expected him to turn and wave,
but he kept going till he faded
from view. We never saw or
heard of him again.
VSTalla saw the end of our
’ ’ swag-carrying days. What
with our successful rabbit-
and possum-season, followed
by a good run of shearing, then
topped-up by the fencing job,
we were in a good financial
position.
We bought three horses —
two saddle and one pack—and
went up a considerable way in
the social scale of the bush.
No longer were we swagmen
depending on travellers’
rations, but men of substance.
No longer did the police pull
us up as we entered a town,
and search our swags looking
for a sewing-machine or a coil
of barbed-wire that had been
stolen the year before, but
greeted us with a friendly nod.
Even the squatters treated us
as human-beings. Never were
we refused a bit of grass for
our horses, knowing that we
would duff it in case of a
refusal. Meat, which was the
travellers’ big worry, owing to
the difficulty of keeping it,
was also given freely. They
knew our views on meat, and
also, if we were really offended,
on leaving gates open, so that
their stock would stray and
get mixed-up with those of
their neighbors.
Droving was plentiful, and
well paid, so we looked round
for stock to be moved. Wood-
ward, of Mount Tenandra, gave
us 405-head of cattle to drove
to Angledool, a few miles east
of the border. They were a
mixed mob bullocks, cows
and yearlings of every breed.
Too many to be driven by
two men, we gave a job to a
young Englishman who called
in at Mount Tenandra looking
for work the day we were
ready to leave. He had
deserted his ship the week
before, got on the booze, woke** 1
up on the Bourke Mail, was
kicked off at Dubbo, jumped
the Coonamble train, and was
thrown off again at Gulargam-
bone. Then he took the first
road he came to after leaving
the railway-station, and
followed it, knowing it must
lead somewhere. His only
possessions were the clothes
he was wearing. A good Eng-
lish tweed suit, good boots,
and the inevitable tweed cap.
He had called in at a hut,
where he was given a feed,
which was the only time he
had eaten during his walk of
28 miles.
While we did not think he
would be much use as a cattle-
drover, after he told his story
we reckoned he had plenty of
guts, so took him on. This
was a few years before the
big flow of immigrants, so the
term “Pommy” was yet to be
coined. He said his name was
Jack Smith (which was good
enough for us) and that he
came from London, so we
called him Cock. Had he been
from Scotland he would have
been Scotty, from Ireland,
Paddy, and from Wales,
Taffy. He was careful to
explain that the only true
Cockney was one who was
born within the sound of Bow
Bells. All other Londoners
who claimed to be Cockneys
were, according to him,
“swankin’ borsteds.”
TX/e bought a buggy, and, as
’ * our packhorse was broken
to harness, installed Cock as
cook and buggy-driver. He
was a fair cook, and as the
horse knew his job, and jogged
along quietly, all went well.
Teaching him to ride was a
bit difficult. He fell off a lot,
but all the horses were quiet,
and stood looking at him in
a bored way till he climbed on
again. When he finally
mastered the art of balancing
he seemed to think he was
“going for a doctor,” and rode
the horse at top speed, one
hand clinging to the pommel,
the other hand and his legs
flapping, and his backside
bumping up and down, in the
traditional. English style.
The second day on the track
we camped on a small reserve
four miles from Coonamble.
I rode the fences to make
sure they were in good order,
turned the mob in to feed and
roam at will, knowing they
would not need to be watched
that night, and we could sleep
without any worries.
We were ready for tea when
a man came across to the camp.
We invited him to have a feed
with us, and he accepted. He
was a striking-looking man,
tall, rawboned, full-bearded,
hook-nosed, and with dark eyes
that never blinked ; he looked
every inch a fighting-man.
He was leading a brown
mare, and it was her load that
attracted my attention, even
more than the man. A pack-
saddle, with the usual swags,
pots and pans, a horse-collar
waterbag which would hold
eight gallons round her neck,
and smaller bags hanging from
the pack-saddle all spoke of


long, dry tracks. And topping
her load was a digger’s pick,
shovel and gold-dish.
While eating we yarned
about various subjects, care-
fully avoiding anything that
would make him think we were
curious about him. Even Cock,
whose bump of inquisitiveness
was, according to Dutchy,
remarkably well developed,
forbore to ask any leading
questions.
The stranger was the first
to open-up. He asked, “Where
are the cattle going?” 1 replied,
“Angledool.” There was a
moment’s silence before he
spoke again: “Is that any-
where near Lightning Ridge?”
1 told him we would go within
a few miles of “The Ridge.”
He offered to travel with us,
and help with the cattle. He
said he would ask no pay and
accept none.
I protested against this, but
he insisted on his own terms.
I had taken a liking to him
and wanted to know more of
him. Dutchy felt the same way
about him. Not till we accepted
his offer did he mention his
name, Frank Farrell. We intro-
duced ourselves, and he
solemnly shook hands all
round. As this ceremony made
us mates, questions could be
asked without any fear of
giving offence.
He said he had come from
Kalgoorlie, in West Aus-
tralia, and was making for
Lightning Ridge, where the
black-opal field was booming.
He had been a year-and-a-half
on the trip, taking a job here
and there, to get a few quid to
carry him on his way. He had
led the brown mare till she
was so used to it that she
followed him without a lead.
Over the desert, for thousands
of miles, she had plodded
patiently behind him,
tormented by flies and caked
with dust, till they reached
Adelaide. Then on to Mel-
bourne, and to Wagga, where
he had been born, and where
some of his people still lived.
A few weeks there, and he
came up through Sydney,
Lithgow, Mudgee, Gulgong
and Tooraweenah, till he
reached our camp at Coon-
able, only about 150 miles
from his destination.
T never knew his age, but
would reckon on over 50. He
seemed to have a bit more than
the average education, and
would quote some of the poets,
Australian and overseas, and
could talk on almost any sub-
ject, and knew what he was
talking about. Despite his
fierce appearance, he was very
gentle in most ways, and hated
cruelty to animals, and
humans, in any form.
The only things he would
get a bit heated over were the
wrongs of Ireland and the
Boer War. His father had left
Ireland in a hurry, to avoid
having his neck stretched, over
one of the political discussions
of the day, as many other
Irishmen had been forced to
do. As a member of the first
Bushman’s Contingent from
W.A., he had gone right
through the war, collecting
two slight wounds and a bout
of enteric fever. Like Ben
Bridge, he had a very low
opinion of the British generals,
from Kitchener down. In his
own words: “If there was a
hill to be taken, Kitchener
would send five-thousand men,
and if these were knocked
back, as they most likely would
be, he would send ten-
thousand. The Boers would
kill this mob, till their ammu-
nition ran out, then grab their
horses and clear-out to the next
hill. And the British soldiers
wore white helmets, red coats,
and white cross-belts.”
Again like Ben Bridge, he
had been forced to witness the
execution of Harry Morant.
He said : “They marched every
available Australian soldier
into Pretoria, and lined us up
where we would have a grand-
stand view of how the British
Army dealt with offenders
against the rules of war. Harry
refused to have his eyes
bandaged, and gave the order
to fire himself. He stuck his
chest out, and said: ‘Blast
away, you bastards!’ The
only time the British Army
showed any sense was the day
they murdered Harry Morant.
They disarmed us, and it was
a week before we got our
rifles back.”
He rose to his feet and
walked away. An hour later he
came back and unrolled his
blankets, and laid down. All
the next day he was morose
and had little to say.
YX/T. were on the road at day-
break, and went through
Coonamble as the stores were
opening. We laid-in supplies
to carry us through to Walgefl,
75 miles on, while Frank
bought a riding-saddle and
dumped his pack and other
gear in the buggy.
Twelve miles further on was
Tahrone, a little pub that
seemed almost to weep with
loneliness. Tucked away in a
bend of the Castlereagh, in a
clump of coolibah-trees, it
reminded me of an orphan
lamb. The publican was a
decent bloke, or a good
businessman. He had a
paddock of about 30 acres,
and he said he would be pleased
to let us camp the cattle for
the night. Needless to say his
offer was not rejected. Camps
like these are what drovers
pray for, when drovers pray.
After tea we were unanimous
that one good turn deserved
another, and went over to the
pub. Cock and Frank were
both drinking men, Cock
especially. His manner of
drinking fascinated me. His
arm would go out in a sweep-
ing movement, his hand close
round the glass and come back
to open mouth, and down it
would go. He didn’t seem to
swallow, but just poured it
down. Even Frank looked at
him in amazement. As the
glass touched the bar, Cock
said: “Fill ’em up again,
choom!”
Dutchy and I were still wary
of the amber fluid, but were
getting a bit gamer with it.
There were a dozen men there,
besides our gang, and it
worked-up into a big night.
Some were from Wingadee,
some from Bullorora, and a
few were travellers. All were
hard drinkers,’ and all had
money to spend. At about
10-o’clock I suggested to Cock
and Frank that we give it
away, but was howled down.
Pubs were open at that time
from 6 a.m. till 11 p.m., so at
closing-time I had another try.
My three mates were then
swearing eternal friendship
with a character known as
Curly Miles. He had a repu-
tation as a fighting man,
gained, I think, as a king-
hitter. He certainly knew
nothing about boxing. He got
very abusive, and I walked
away.
I was talking to the wife of
the publican when he came
over to me and wanted to
fight. His language was very
lurid, and I warned him to cut
it out. He invited me to make
him stop, so I slapped him
across the mouth, openhanded.
He went down, got up, and
came again. 1 slapped him
again, and he said: “Come
over in the morning when I’m
sober, and see if you can do it.”
I didn't like hitting a
drunken man, even though he
had forced the trouble on him-
self. I knew I would have to
fight him in the morning,
otherwise I would be looked
on as an easy mark if we met
again. Having met so many
of Curly’s type when travelling
with George Ruenalf I had no
fear of the result.
TX/hen we went over, Curly
was ready, stripped to the
waist, skipping around, shadow-
sparring, and telling his mates
what he was going to do to
me. It was all very official.
A timekeeper was appointed,
complete with stop-watch ; the
publican was referee ; and we
each had a second.
When time was called, Curly
rushed at me wide open, and I
side-moved, and hit him as he
went past. He went down flat
on his face, and stayed there
while the referee counted him
out.
I had not hit him hard
enough to knock him out, so
I came to the conclusion that
he had no guts, but, having
bought himself into a fight,
he had to go on with it, and
get out of it as quickly as
possible, with no injury to him-
self.
Dutchy looked at me, and
grinned. He knew that Curly
wasn't hurt. But Curly lay on
the ground, while his mates
poured water on him and felt
his pulse and heart, and the
publican rushed out with a
glass of brandy. Dutchy, who
could never resist a chance like
this, added to the general
gloom by saying: “You
shouldn’t have hit him like that,
Duke. Remember that chap
in Cobar, last year?” He then
added: “Poor cow, his jaw
was broken in three places.
Couldn’t eat for a month.” He
spoke in such a convincing
manner that I almost believed
him myself.
Curly did not need much
persuasion to swallow the
o Continued on page 44)


Must a Trade-unionist Vote Labor?
Trade-unions and the A.L.P.
Although a Liberal Attorney-
General is not likely to be re-
garded by the trade-union move-
ment as a completely unpartisan
adviser on political matters, Sir Garfield
Barwick’s remarks at the summer school
of the Institute of Political Science will
probably receive a lot more considera-
tion from trade-unionists than would
have been the case a few years ago. This
is because of the very change in the
political and social atmosphere which
the Attorney-General had in mind when
he said:
The time may well be here for the trade-
union movement to rethink its position,
review its attitudes and philosophies, dis-
card those that are outworn and inap-
propriate to the times, and meet the
new day with youthful vigor, penetrating
thoughtfulness and wisdom. I believe
that a strong, stable, intelligent, vigilant
and well-led trade-union movement is
indispensable, not merely from the point of
view of those who are in industrial employ-
ment, but the community at large.
I would have thought its role in
modern conditions, apart from securing
the best conditions for its members and
policing the observance of industrial
laws, was so to co-operate in the total
industrial activity as to assure the greatest
advance in the real standard of living of
our people.
The trade-unionist who considers that
statement dispassionately will find little
to cavil at in it. It is surely right that
every organisation should from time to
time take stock of its position, to make
sure that its thinking is in line with
current conditions. Only in this way
can it keep abreast of the times and best
serve the interests of its members and
the community.
Barwick’s profession of belief in the
necessity for a trade-union movement
might evoke sardonic grins from some
of his political opponents, but few would
disbelieve him, although they might
differ profoundly with him on the inter-
pretation of “well-led.” As to the third
point the desirability of co-operating
“to ensure the greatest advance in the
real standard of living of our people”—
surely no trade-unionist would deny that
this should be the prime activity of his
organisation.
Class-war Background
r T' I HE infant Australian Labor Party
was started by the trade-unions ; it
was therefore natural that in its forma-
tive years most trade-unionists should
vote Labor. It was also natural that the
bitterness engendered by the shearers’
and maritime strikes of the 1890 s should
dominate trade-union philosophy for
some time thereafter. This background,
plus transplanted Marxism, encouraged
the growth of the class-war doctrine, and
the idea flourished that industry was a
ceaseless struggle between the boss and
the worker.
There are some trade-union leaders
and some Labor M.P.s who still talk
and act as if they believe this picture
of industry to be still valid, but the
more thoughtful ones, whose heads are
not immersed in the murky past, agree
that the conception is out-of-date.
Ignoring all the changes in the social
and economic structure that have taken
place since 1890, the official A.L.P. atti-
tude is still that the Labor party is the
only political friend the wage-earner has,
and that if he wants an improved
standard-of-living only a Labor Govern-
ment can or will give it to him. This
is a viewpoint that has never been
accepted by the trade-unions of America,
where the living-standard of the worker
is the highest in the world. Organised
labor in the United States gives its sup-
port sometimes to the Democratic party,
sometimes to the Republicans. No party
claiming to represent the workers
exclusively has ever made much headway
in U.S. politics.
The same thing is true of Canada,
where the trade-unionist vote, after help-
ing to keep a Liberal Government in
office for many years, swung to the Pro-
gressive Conservatives in 1957 and 1958,
while the Labor party polled fewer than
700,000 votes out of a total of nearly
7 million.
Politics and Daily Needs
Tn Australia the association between the
industrial Labor movement and the
political Labor party is closer than in
most countries, but in recent years it has
become apparent that the tie is not nearly
so close as the A.L.P. would like it to
be. A.C.T.U. action is not always in
line with official A.L.P. policy and indi-
vidual trade-unions are often at variance
with it.
This latter tendency has been especially
evident since the split in the Labor ranks
and the rise of the D.L.P. provided an
alternative. Moreover, in the Federal
field Labor has been in Opposition for
more than nine years and although it is
possible, perhaps essential, for a political
party to keep its hates and enmities
alive for all that time, trade-unions,
which have to cater for the current needs
and interests of their members, find
themselves obliged to take a more
realistic attitude and to compromise with
the Government of the day irrespective
of its political color.
When the Menzies Government
assumed office in 1949 there were dark
threats and rumors as to the fate that
would befall it at the hands of organised
Labor. These ranged from hints of
simple non-co-operation to threats of
sabotage and obstruction designed to
make it impossible for a non-Labor
Government to function.
There were wild men of the party,
both inside and outside Parliament, who
firmly believed this to be the proper role
for class-conscious workers to play, re-
gardless of the fact that the Govern-
ment had been elected by democratic
process with an overwhelming majority.
Yet the history of the past nine years
shows that commonsense triumphed over
doctrine, and that in general the leaders
of the trade-union movement have co-
operated with the Liberal-Country-party
Government to the advantage of their
members.
Co-operation with L.-C.P.
TAR. Lloyd Ross, secretary of the
N.S.W. branch of the Australian
Railways Union, had something to tell
the summer school on this subject. He
showed that not only had the number of
trade-unions and their total membership
increased since the advent of the Menzies
Government, but that the percentage of
unionists to employees had also risen.
He said that trade-unions had joined
committees formed by the MenzieS
Government and that there had been
close co-operation between the A.C.T.U.
and the Department of Labor and
National Service. “Links with political
Labor had remained, but industrial links
had been re-forged with a non-Labor
Government that had been in office so
long that it could not be ignored.” As
a result of this co-operation the number
of strikes had fallen.
Sir Garfield Barwick said that migra-
tion and scientific advances were chang-
ing the constituency of trade-unions and
that the movement would have to accom-
modate itself to this change and adjust
its attitudes accordingly. He regarded
affiliation of a trade-union to a political
party as a source of disunity and
weakness.
More of substance could be obtained by
industrial negotiation and co-operation
than by political activity .... At best,
the affiliation or identification should be
modified so that its existence is no bar
to the strength of the movement, and
ideally it should be severed.
Even a slight study of the results of
Australian elections should make it
obvious that large numbers of trade-
unionists have already done what Bar-
wick is urging their movement to do —•
exercise a right of choice in politics in-
stead of regarding themselves as bound
to support the A.L.P. If every trade-
unionist in Australia and every trade-
unionist’s wife invariably voted Labor
there would never be any but Labor
Governments in Australia. That is not
only true today ; it has been true for
the past half-century. In the 58 years
since Federation, Labor has been in
office only 17 years. In the States the
A.L.P. record is much better, but still
far from consistent with the wish-image
of every trade-unionist being a dyed-
in-the-wool A.L.P. supporter.
It is certainly true that the closer the
trade-union movement gets to 100 per
cent, membership, the further it gets
away from 100 per cent. A.L.P.
allegiance. Oldtimers may feel that this
spells disaster for the wage-earner, but
the new generation seems to have other
ideas.


Missing Friends
The relatives of the late MARTIN
MULCAHY, known to have resided at
Woolomin, near Tamworth, about, the
year 1872, and also the relatives of the
late MICHAEL MULCAHY, known to
have resided at Bowling Alley Point,
near Tamworth, about the same time,
or anyone knowing the whereabouts of
such relatives are requested to com-
municate with EVERINGHAM, SOLO-
MONS & CO., Solicitors, P.O. Box 524,
Tamworth, N.S.W.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
W.f.o. at Caulfield
The field in the seven-
furlongs C. F. Orr Stakes at
Caulfield Melbourne’s first
w.-f.-a. event since the spring
• —read like a current Who’s
Who of Australian racing, with
Skyline about the only notable
omission. Runners included
proved w.-f.-a. performers
Lord, Wiggle and Prince
Darius ; V.R.C. Derby winner
Sir Blink, and Oaks winner
Chicola; the good filly But
Beautiful, and speedy South
Australian mare Cherete.
Despite the talented line-up,
punters wanted only one
runner, the Targui gelding
Lord, who was backed in from
twos to 10/9. Their judgment
proved sound, with Lord win-
ning comfortably from Wiggle
and Prince Darius. As usual,
Lord ran wide at the turn, but
all the way along the straight
Geoff Lane had merely to ride
hands-and-heels to keep his
mount well clear.
Lord has a remarkable
record at Caulfield, his home-
track —10 wins, and unbeaten
at his last seven starts there.
He looks the horse to beat in
the autumn scale-events.
Wiggle’s run was a good
one, and a big improvement
on her first-up effort at Moonee
Valley on the Australia Day
holiday. Prince Darius carried
a little bit too much condition,
and is sure to be a better horse
next start. The best run out-
side the winner’s, however, was
Sir Blink's strong run into
fourth place. The little fellow
will win his share of races over
the next couple of months.
Red Pine has paid the penalty
for his good form in the big
handicaps of the spring, which
included the minor placing in
the Melbourne Cup. On Satur-
day he had 9.4 in the mile-
and-a-half Malua Handicap,
and the weight, plus a bad run
for most of the race, kept him
out of the placings. Even so,
owner W. Franklin was suffi-
ciently impressed by the run
to declare that Red Pine’s pro-
gramme would be aimed at the
rich Queen Elizabeth Stakes at
Flemington on March 14. The
13 furlongs of that event will
suit Red Pine, who stays like
a bailiff. Whether he is class
or not to win under the scale
is another matter. It will be
in his favor that Australia is
short of top-class horses who
can get a distance.
• • t
A couple of weeks ago
tribute was paid here to
Warrnambool trainer Kevin
Lafferty’s skill with jumping
horses. When King’s Domain
won the Marmont Trial Hurdle
at Caulfield he gave Lafferty his
ninth successive jumping win.
• • • •
Snowflower proved what a
good filly she is when she won
the 54-furlongs Starlet Stakes
for her age and sex at Caulfield.
She dwelt in the stalls, but,
aided by a good run along the
rails, worked her way to the
front in the straight, and
fought on well when strong
challenges came over the last
half-furlong. It was a good
performance with 8.10. Snow-
flower, who is from Snow
Queen by Wiggle’s sire, Rego,
has won both her races this
time up. Kilbreda caught the
eye with a strong run into
fourth place. She should
improve on that soon.
The team of owner Dave
Whiteside, trainer Bob Clarton
and jockey Norm Powell have
given bookmakers plenty of
worries over the years, and
they combined again on
Saturday to score with the
heavily - backed Feathertop.
Having only his second start in
a race, Feathertop was impres-
sive in a clear win in the 51-
furlongs Sturt Handicap for
two-year-olds. The gelding is
by High Peak from Gaysonox,
a half-sister to Wellock and
Dempsey, who both came from
Adelaide to Melbourne to win
races. The useful field Feather-
top defeated included Fast Gun
and Kent. Runner-up was the
chestnut colt Anonyme, also
having only his second run.
Anonyme is a half-brother to
Matrice, one of the best
sprinters Australia has seen in
recent years.
This is not the time of the
year to be thinking about the
"Y' know, I love the stuff —but I suffer from hay-fever."
big jumping events of the
■winter, but one could not help
noting Red Pampas in the
Keysborough Welter at Caul-
field. From last when the field
settled down, Red Pampas
rattled home sixth in the style
of a good handicapper. When
he won the Australian Hurdle
last year Red Pampas looked
the best Hurdle prospect Mel-
bourne has seen in years, and
Saturday’s run suggests it will
be a sad look-out for his
opponents the first time he
starts in a jumping race.
• • • •
Young Western District
apprentice Des Lake, whose
first city win was commented
on here last week, scored his
second success at Caulfield
last Saturday, when he won
the mile Chisholm Handicap
on Wheat King. The winner
is a three-year-old Srnokey
Eyes gelding out of Wheat
Sheaf, and he has now won at
three of his last four starts.
The elect of the stable pair,
Skyline and Gold Stakes,
should make it hard for local
sprinters in the £2OOO w.-f.-a.
Lightning Stakes at Fleming-
ton next Saturday. Last year’s
winner, Misting—who won the
race as a two-year-old—is in
the field again, and so is his
old rival, Planetoid. With a
couple of speedy two-year-
olds and the best of Mel-
bourne's older sprinters
engaged, the Lightning should
be a sizzling affair.
Sydney Horses
7 . 7 .
™ tbls time °f tbe y ear > and
or >wards, two-year-olds stacked-
Vf a S ainst ad a S es m Flying
f andlca P s ° r restricted sprints
frequently do well and one of
Fine and Dandy, Syd-
® *f p two-year-old, though
n0 > l U / wound - u P, proved too
EH 1 * or °PP on e n ts * n tbe
, TT at Rosehill on Satur-
, defeated Bold Pilot
-Jf a with Aura third,
f ine ancl Da ndy has now had
°. ur sta,ts f°’ three successive
wins, the others being in the
V.R.C. Maribyrnong Plate and
the A.J.C. Canonbury Stakes,
both of which he won by manv


start the day right!
r.
Mr
yUOIHC
EHO6 r
m ••?
IrEMJ
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: B\V 8131 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
lengths. Front Cover seemed
lucky to beat him a head in the
A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate.
Jack Thompson, who had
strung together a sequence of
70 losing rides until he got the
mount on Fine and Dandy,
rode a clever race, and also was
lucky—he secured a rails run
about a furlong or so from the
winning-post. Trainer Harry
Plant intends to start Fine and
Dandy in another Rosehill
sprint in about three weeks’
time, then set him for the
£lO,OOO Golden Slipper Stakes
(also run at Rosehill) and the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes at
Randwick in March.
Randwick trainer E. D.
(Peter) Lawson supplied the
favorite, Parabola, and the
second-favorite, Akimbo, in
the Rosehill Two-year-old
Graduation Stakes, the second-
choice winning from outsider
Raiburn and Parabola. On the
day, Akimbo was vastly
superior to her rivals —there's
no fluke or luck about a horse
that wins a race by half-a-dozen
lengths, and Akimbo could
have increased the margin had
G. Moore wished. Time,
1.12 y, was a race record—much
better than Leebana's 1.14 7-10
made five years earlier. Akimbo
has won at two of her last
three starts.
There were only six starters
in the Rosehill Handicap, run
over 10 furlongs, and Ulandra
so dominated the opposition
that he was at odds-on all the
time, starting at 5 to 4 on.
He carried 9.9, but it was only
an exercise-gallop for him. He
is one to watch if, as is likely,
he’s taken to Melbourne for
the autumn racing.
When a leading stable
doesn’t fancy its runner, and
then the horse wins at long
odds, what chance has the
punter? Braemar, one of
Frank Dalton’s gallopers,
hadn’t raced for some months,
and he eased sharply in bet-
ting. However, stable-appren-
tice S. Farrawell brought the
four-year-old from the rear of
the field for a meritorious win.
The race was for apprentices
claiming a 71b. allowance, and
Farrawell is a smart youngster
with several wins to his credit.
Rosehill is one of Sydney’s
best race-tracks. There is
plenty of galloping-room, so
there should be no need for
ciowding in any race —but
obvious crowding about a fur-
long or so from the winning-
post settled the chances of two
or three well-fancied runners
in Saturday’s Welter. One of
the main sufferers appeared to
be Persian Story, the third-
favorite. He was just about to
make his run when the jumble-
up put him out of the picture.
Stewards warned apprentice K.
Smith for allowing Pardy to
race erratically. B o o r a 1 a
landed the money, his third
win in four starts.
Randwick trainers almost
scooped the pool at Rosehill,
six of the seven events being
won by horses prepared at
headquarters. The exception
was Creme De Cacao, trained
at Newcastle by Tommy Black.
E. D. Lawson won two races
(Akimbo and Boorala), and the
other successful Randwick
Earners were H. Plant (Fine
and Dandy), T. J. Smith
(U 1 a n d r a), Jack Mitchell
(Hubbub) and F. J. Dalton
(Braemar).
On Line proved the good
thing he looked for the A.J.C.
Anniversary Handicap, the five-
year-old gelding travelling
smoothly throughout the mile-
and-a-half to beat Lord Cort-
auld and Ruthless Don in 2.32,
average time for the race.
(Twenty years ago some
winners ran better than 2.31.)
Jockey B. Howlett has
handled On Line with expert
skill in all his latest wins.
Trained at Randwick by
Frank McGrath, On Line is
to be set for the £12,500
Sydney Cup on March 30. The
gelding has twice won at 12
furlongs, and his pedigree
points to his having no diffi-
culty in getting the Cup
distance of two miles. Rela-
tives include Prince Delville, an
A.J.C. Derby winner, and
Several English stayers of note.
Bought as a yearling for
350gns., On Line has proved
a sale-ring bargain.
This page selected the
winning Challenge - Anniver-
sary double—Huntly and On
Line.
When Bardshah was cata-
logued as a yearling at the
Randwick 1957 auction the
highest bid was 250gns., which
breeder M. V. Point wisely,
as things turned out, declined
to accept. He has since raced
Bardshah with success, and
trainer Bob Stuart may be able
to produce the staying gelding
fit and well enough to win the
£3OOO A.J.C. St. Leger on
March 28. Bardshah should get
the St. Leger distance of
If mile as he is by Royal
Empire (Fr.),- a winner at 13
furlongs in England, and has
staying power on the dam's
side, too.
Owner John Wren was in
luck’s way last week. At
Randwick on the Anniversary
Day holiday he won the main
race, the Anniversary Handi-
cap (worth £1986), with five-
year-old On Line. Five days
later at Doomben he landed
the First Maiden with Dormie,
a three-year-old brother to On
Line. Both are by Chateau
Roussel (imp.) from Straight
Putt (imp.) by Straight Deal
from Joyce W by Fairway.
Joyce W won the Yorkshire
Oaks. Dormie was sold at the
Randwick yearling-auction in
1957 for 375 guineas.
• • • •
Sydney bookmakers will be
able to relax today (Wednes-
day), when the S.T.C. will stage
its first midweek Canterbury
‘ tote” meeting. It should be
interesting to see how many
of the “big” punters line-up in
top-unit queues or take advan-
tage of the “credit-betting”
plan.
* * *
The Trots
Before a crowd of nearly
20,000 at Harold Park on
Saturday night champion
pacer Fettle got his revenge
on Caduceus (who had beaten
him decisively in the £6OOO
Harold Park Cup the previous
week) by winning the £lOOO
invitation Stakes by three-
quarters of a length from
Diabolo Don, with champion
mare Sibelia li length away
in third possie. Caduceus was
outstayed in the straight and
finished fourth.
From a selected field of six
of our best pacers, all off
scratch except Caduceus
(24yds. behind), Fettle went to
the front shortly after the start,
followed by Diabolo Don,
Sibelia, First Kiss, Gentry and
Caduceus. At the bell Caduceus
had moved up to within a
length of Fettle, but weakened
approaching the home-turn.
Fettle ran the Ilf furlongs in
3min. s|sec., registering a mile-
rate of 2.6f —only fsec. out-
side Sibelia’s mile reeord.
Fettle ran the last half-mile
in the astounding time of
59fsec.
Former boxer Roy Treasure
scored a good win in the First
Qualifying Stakes, when he
drove 7-to-4 favorite Silvena
to a four-lengths win from
Elva Jean and Hot Tip. Brother
of Len Treasure (trainer-
driver of Diabolo Don), Roy
has only had a driver’s licence
since last May. This was his
second drive at headquarters.
Starting at 16 to 1, 12-year-
old Great Wyn won the Second
Qualifying Stakes by a short
head from Neena Louise, with
favorite General Bruce third.
It was Great Wyn’s first win
at Harold Park after 36
attempts! He had his first run
there early in 1953.
* * *
The Cricketers
Peter May’s seemingly in-
explicable decision to send
Australia in to bat in the fourth
Test in Adelaide appeared to
have misfired even by lunch
the first day—when McDonald
and Burke had 58 on the board


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—■
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
without loss —and still more
so when the score at the end
of the first day was 1-200. Even
at that point the Ashes
appeared to be Australia’s for
sure.
Yet, with a bit of luck, the
gamble might have paid. If
Statham’s very first ball of the
match had been half-an-inch
or so to the right it would have
sent a peg flying. And if con-
troversial'umpire Mclnnes had
ruled that the ball well-caught
by Evans had come off Burke’s
glove and not his forearm when
he was 24, things could have
been different.
McDonald and Burke’s
opening-partnership of 171 was
Australia’s best post-war start
against England and was only
nine runs short of Australia’s
best start ever against England
(180, by Bardsley and Sid
Gregory at the Oval in 1909).
The previous-best post-war
opening-stand against England
was Burke and McDonald’s
137 in the second Test in Eng-
land in 1956. The best before
that was Woodfull and Pons-
ford’s 162 at the Oval in 1930.
Apparently May expected a
“green top,” though the
Adelaide wicket has never been
notoriously fast. Even if it
was a “green top” the English
attack, with four pace-men,
looked to have too much of
a sameness about it. Laker,
injured, was missed. May
should have remembered the
Brisbane Test in 1954-55, when
Australia scored 600 against an
attack with four fast-men in
it. In later Tests, with spinners
Appleyard and Wardle in-
cluded for necessary variety,
even though the pace-men did
most of the wrecking, England
started to dominate the show.
May should also have recalled
Hutton's mistake in Brisbane
before giving Benaud first
strike.
* * *
“K.R.”: Often I wonder that
cricket still draws a crowd —
particularly when there’s a bit
of rain hovering around ; for
scant consideration is then
given, in many ways, to the
paying public. As just one of
several instances I could cite,
take the M.C.C.-N.S.W.
game on Australia Day. When
England's innings ended,
about 45min. before tea, half-
a-dozen drops of rain fell and
the lOmin. break was pro-
longed to 25min. Four overs
were bowled, then all off the
field for the 15min. afiernoon-
tea-break, during which the
weather remained fine. On the
resumption Statham bowled
two balls, a dozen drops
of rain fell and everyone raced
for the Members’ Stand.
Surely, in conditions like this,
with an overcast sky and a
likely early appeal against the
light (which duly came 45min.
before stumps), some authority
could cancel, say, the after-
noon-tea break. Cricket must
be a great game to command
the allegiance it still does, in
view of all the pinpricks that
beset spectators.
* * *
Tennis
The 1959 Australian singles-
title, decided in Adelaide on
Australia Day, was won, not
by the Australian finalist,
Neale Fraser, as would have been
appropriate, but by his foreign
opponent, Peruvian-American Alex
Olmedo. Which is not to say that
Olmedo didn’t deserve to win —he
did, for he proved that his challenge-
round wins were no flukes, and he
completely outclassed Fraser 6-1,
6-2, 3-6, 6-3. Olmedo is the first
foreigner to win the Australian
title since American Dick Savitt in
1951. Before that again the previous
overseas winner was American
Donald Budge in 1938.
Sydney girl Mrs. Mary Reitano,
on the other hand, stopped a
winning sequence by overseas
players in the women’s title, by
defeating South African Renee
Schuurman 6-2, 6-3. As Mary
Carter, Mrs. Reitano had won the
Australian title in 1956. In 1957
American girl Shirley Fry won,
and in 1958 English lass Angela
Mortimer took it out.
The men’s doubles-title was won
by youngsters Mark and Laver,
who beat the more experienced pair
Candy and Howe in straight sets
in the final, 9-7, 6-4, 6-2. The game
was not of a very high standard.
Australia’s six-man team to go
overseas to challenge in the
American zone for the Davis Cup
looks one of the weakest sides for
years —Fraser and Mark (Vic.),
Emerson, Laver and Fletcher (Q.)
and Mulligan (N.S.W.). The younger
players, like Mulligan, Fletcher and
Mark, have great potential, and may
be world-beaters. Fraser, the senior
player, though handy enough, seems
to lack what it takes to be a world
champion—he has never won a
major singles-title.
Kramer’s professional troupe, in
the meanwhile, appear to be going
great guns. They are at present
competing in a series of tourneys
for the £2500 Ampol Open Trophy
(intended to be contested for in time
by amateurs and professionals).
The cash prize and trophy go to
the player who wins most points
in the dozen or so tournaments to
be held in 1959. After the contest
in Melbourne and Brisbane Sedg-
rnan (on 8 points) led Gonzales and
Rosewall (7 each), with Trabert (5),
Hoad (4), Segura (3) and Cooper
and Anderson (1 each). A tourney
has since been held in Perth (in
w'hich Cooper surprisingly beat
Gonzales), and one is now in pro-
gress in Sydney.
* * *
Other Sports
“Veryl”: Not altogether
surprisingly, the four runners
(Elliott, Lincoln, Albert
Thomas and Wilson) who
attacked last Sunday the still-
unratified world mile relay-
record of 16min. 30.65ec., set
by four English runners last
year, missed out —by 3.2 sec.
The greatest of the four, Elliott,
was below his best, though he
ran fastest time (4.3.4). The
day before he' had been flat-
out to beat Queenslander Tony
Blue, a good runner but not
in Elliott's class, in the final
of the Victorian 880yds. Vic-
torian runner John Miirray,
who has faster times to his
credit, should perhaps have
been preferred to Wilson in
the team. Lincoln and Thomas
also disappointed.
* * *
Sydney golfer Kel Nagle
topped the P.G.A. averages for
the 1958 season (overseas and
local tourneys). Nagle finished
with an average of 71.29 for
the maximum 95 rounds.
Average par was 70.82. Second
on the list was Frank Phillips,
followed by Eric Cremin and
Crampton. There were no
figures for British Open cham-
pion Peter Thomson.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIA AND THE U.S.
T>RESS-comment on U.S.-
•*- Soviet relations as seen in
the light of the Soviet Deputy
Prime Minister’s visit to
America :
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“Unquestionably, Mikoyan’s
mission is part of what seems
to be a growing move to soften-
up United States attitudes. A
significant manifestation of
this was the fact that ‘Soviet
Russia’ the other day published
an article by Ilya Ehrenburg,
the veteran journalist, who also
has visited the United States,
crediting Americans with ‘rare
selflessness’ and having many
praiseworthy things to say
about our people and society.
Whatever the motives may
prove to be, the Communist
rulers seem to be preparing a
new sort of ‘genial reappraisal,’
like the one which led to the
1955 summit meeting at
Geneva. That meeting led to a
softening of our defence
psychology at the very moment
the Soviets were launching
their penetration of the Middle
East. That experience should
warn us to be wary of their real
intentions.”
* * m
“U.S. News and World
Report”: “To those who
watched Mikoyan on his trip,
its purpose quickly became
plain:
“Mikoyan wants the secrets
behind the world’s highest
standard of living.
“The visitor is ‘cozying up’
to U.S. businessmen to pro-
mote trade, and perhaps obtain
U.S. credits to finance it.
“The Russian is here to
preach ‘peaceful coexistence,’
but meanwhile avoids specific
concessions on Berlin and
other issues.
“To those endeavors,
Mikoyan brings a bouncy
energy, an insatiable curiosity,
and a sharp, shrewd mind.
Those who saw him in action
warn that it would be perilous
to underestimate the man.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“In almost every speech which
he has made, as, it appears, in
private conversation, Mr.
Mikoyan has insisted that the
United States and Russia must
meet one another on a normal
commercial footing. There is
a wide field of trade, he has
insisted, ready to be sown and
harvested by American industry
if only the politicians would
show a little good sense. Let
businessmen in America and
in Russia lay a solid founda-
tion of trade between the two
countries, Mr. Mikoyan urges,
and the statesmen will be
forced to toe the line.
“An argument better calcu-
lated to appeal to the leaders
of American industry could
hardly have been devised.
Moreover, the appeal is made
to those who have, in the past,
been the most influential sup-
porters of President Eisen-
hower’s Administration. There
are many signs that it has not
fallen on deaf ears. Already a
growing body of opinion
among America’s ‘tycoons’ is
ready to repudiate the intran-
sigent policies of Mr. Dulles
and to try a new approach to
America’s relationship with the
Soviet Union. The Governor
of California has even
suggested that a second peace-
conference between the two
countries might be held in his
State.
“Mr. Mikoyan has thus set
the stage to his liking for the
next act. Already public
opinion in the United States is
more disposed to give serious
consideration to Mr. Khrush-
chev’s plan for a German
peace-conference than is the
State Department, which has
shown no enthusiasm for the
scheme. Any new proposals
which may be made will be
carefully seasoned to the taste
of the American people, how-
London “Daily Mail”
“LADDIE, YOU SHOULD HAVE SEEN ME IN MY
LONDON SEASON”
ever little they may appeal to
Mr. Dulles’ palate. A com-
promise over Berlin, for
instance —and any compromise
is almost certain to be to the
advantage of Russia —might
appear to very many Americans
a small price to pay for an
easing of the tension between
their country and the Soviet
Union and for access to
Russian markets for American
industry.”
• • • •
The same: “Americans
should remember the blandish-
ments with which Hitler wooed
Great Britain in the years
before the last war. Just one
insignificant territorial con-
cession, he urged, just one (and
then one more) and Germany
and Great Britain could settle
down in harmony to dominate
the world. Although this
country sought for a time to
appease Hitler we never
accepted his thesis that Ger-
many should be mistress of
Europe and of Russia, leaving
this country free to do as she
pleased elsewhere. The bait
offered now to America is not
dissimilar to that which Hitler
dangled before our noses 20
years or so ago. It has the
same superficial plausibility,
the same obvious appeal to
simple minds. It must be said,
quite bluntly, that to sacrifice
the people of West Berlin for
the chimera of trade "with
Russia would be to take 30
pieces of debased silver in
exchange for the lives and
liberties of millions of men and
women.”
* # *
London “New Statesman”:
“Mikoyan’s message to
America is simple. ‘We are the
only two Powers that matter ;
if we can reach an accommoda-
tion, the rest of the world —
whether Chinese hot-heads or
German revanchistes *— will
have to accept it. We have
two choices. We can destroy
—or, more probably, ruin—
each other. Or we can get
together, settle our differences
on the basis of the status quo,
and see who can get richer
faster. Which makes more
sense?’ For many American
businessmen, groaning under
rising defence costs, searching
anxiously for new markets in
the chill recession winds, and
seeing in the Lunik a portent
of Russia’s capacity to devas-
tate their homeland, there is
little doubt which makes more
sense. Mikoyan is talking
something very like their
language.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” :
“Just as it is now fashionable


mmmm
,
' h
GkQ
' : ■
ss^S^sttt
-
h&txc )j
-
HISW |
■ !:
«, 'PHYSICS _I?
••••• -•••-• . •
mm?
There are two schools of thought
Frederick (left, above) is keen to get on. He studies hard, absorbs well and has positive
views. For example, he subscribes to Pope’s maxim, “A little knowledge is a dangerous
thing.”
Graham (right, above) is studious, too —clear in his thinking— not radical, by any means,
but when he arrives at a decision he’s hard to budge. On the subject of knowledge his
vote goes to Horacleitus, who observed, “Much learning does not make a scholar.”
To continue in the strain of maxim and adage, “A bad workman quarrels with his tools,”
but no student, from primary school through university, finds cause to quarrel with
text books printed on “Burnie” printing papers or “Ballarat” coated papers. These
Australian-made papers stand up to the year-to-year pass on system which is hard on
text books.
Everybody benefits from this nationally important industry because much of Australia’s
total requirements in fine printing and writing papers is supplied in “Burnie” and
“Ballarat” qualities.
Of
ASSOCIATED PULP & PAPER MILLS LIMITED
Subsidiary Companies:
PAPERMAKERS LTD. BALLARAT PAPER MILLS PTY. LTD.
Mills at Burnie, Tasmania and Ballarat, Victoria.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide.
“Burnie” and “Ballarat” products are distributed by wholesale paper
merchants throughout Australia and New Zealand.
for Americans to travel to
Russia (a thing that a few years
ago would have branded them
as suspect) r so a natural
curiosity impels them to gape
at Mr. Mikoyan. When they
do so another feeling sets in—
surprise at his brisk, humorous
manner, the manner of a sales-
man who is a good deal
shrewder than most. Why, the
creature is not only human, it
is positively agreeable! Pro-
bably no Soviet leader could
fail pleasantly to surprise his
hosts once it became plain that
he was wearing an -ordinary
pair of shoes instead of cloven
slippers.
“Mr. Mikoyan started with
several advantages besides.
Anyone who has managed to
live through as much as he has
must be vastly shrewd. He has
been to the United States
before. He seems tempera-
mentally to be the man best
fitted to deal with Western
visitors to Moscow, and has
several times played this part
to everyone’s satisfaction.
Though no longer concerned
with trade in particular he is
well able to talk to American
businessmen (or Labor-party
economists) in tones of sweet
reasonableness, which suggest
that trade and coexistence can
settle all things, with never a
hint that round the corner may
lie a Hungarian revolution, a
Middle Eastern power struggle,
or a new Soviet purge.
“To what end does this
skilled negotiator expose him-
self equally to public dinners
which he has to consume and
to eggs which he has to dodge?
That he is chiefly concerned
with putting the Soviet view
on Berlin seems unlikely. He
has talked a good deal about
trade, but this talk may have
impressed his business audi-
ences more than it does Mr.
Mikoyan himself: the -‘New
York Times’ correspondent
has reported the ‘deepening
impact’ made upon business-
men by words which left the
State Department cold. It may
be, as some have speculated,
that he is testing the ground
for a possible visit by Mr.
Khrushchev or for bilateral
talks. Such talks, so far as the
Soviet Union is concerned,
might or might not bring
results, but they would anyhow
upset America's allies.”
* * *
Ed i n b ur g h “Scotsman":
“One advantage of a visit.like
Mr. Mikoyan’s is that it may
eradicate from the minds of
Americans certain stereotyped
ideas of what Russian Com-
munists are like, but it is by
no means certain that equally
erroneous ideas of an opposite
character may not be implanted
in American minds. There
may be a kind of over-correc-
tion of erroneous views. The
conclusion that Mr. Mikoyan
is human is doubtless correct,
but it would be an error to
jump to the conclusion that the
Russian Government is
humane. Nor need it be
assumed that Mr. Mikoyan is
the same at home. He has
said that a Solomon would
probably apportion the blame
for the cold war equally
between the United States and
Russia. But the endless pro-
fusion of abuse of Western
capitalists in the Russian press
and in the speeches of leading
Russians as warmongers and
aggressors suggests that Mr.


What has Billy Graham
got?
How does this dynamic evan-
gelist lead thousands back to
God ? How does he help them
cast out their fears . . . find
an inner peace theylve never
known? In February Reader’s
Digest, religious leaders,
including Billy Graham him-
self, reveal the secret of his
mysterious power to change
men’s lives.
You’ll enjoy every one of the
34 articles in February
Reader’s Digest, including
Train YOUR EYES for Belter
Driving, 49 Ways to Make Mar-
riage More Exciting and Your
Mind Improves with Age.
Reader’s Digest—the world's
most widely read magazine
on sale at all newsagents. 2/-.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
London “News Chronicle"
THE WE’LL-NOT-BUDGIES
Khushchev has no intention of
becoming a Solomon.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph ’’ :
“Mr. Mikoyan’s holiday in the
United States apears to have
been most successful in pre-
cisely those areas where
theoretically it might have been-
expected to fail. From the pro-
letariat he has received curious
stares ; from the politicians, at
any rate initially, polite but
formal handshakes. The real,
warm, full - blooded, all-
American welcome has come
American welcome has
come from the capitalist
giants. On reflection this
is not at all surprising.
It is doubtful whether the
American working-man can see
much in Mr. Mikoyan which
deserves his admiration. The
one class which Communism
has signally failed to benefit is
the working-class. The Russian
proletariat is still miserably
poor and brutally exploited.
Where Communism has scored
a fantastic success is in the
organisation of industry, in
production and productivity, in
technological skill, in the
accumulation and exploitation
of capital. By any standards
Mr. Mikoyan is an industrial
success story.
“The mood of the great
corporation executives counts
for a lot in Washington. The
smile Mr. Mikoyan has
brought to their faces is already
beginning to be reflected on
Uncle Sam’s. Even Mr. Dulles
has melted a little. Undoubt-
edly the possibility of Mr.
Khrushchev also paying the
White House a visit has been
brought appreciably nearer.
All this can be regarded as
welcome news. It is highly
desirable, that the Russian
leaders should know more of
America and vice versa, even
though, as in the case of the
visit of Marshal Bulganin and
Mr. Khrushchev to London,
the practical results may be
small. So far as Britain is
concerned, there should be no
possible objection to Mr.
Khrushchev and Mr. Eisen-
hower meeting together with-
out Mr. Macmillan. A formal
summit-conference, of course,
jvould be a different matter. But
anything which helps to break-
down the previously impassable
mental barrier between Russia
and America does some service
to peace.”
Lord Russell and the
Bomb
Commenting on Lord
Russell's latest book,
Common Sense and Nuclear
War, “Yorkshire Post” points
out that he (Russell) “sets out,
in part, to do what has been
done by many men and women
down the centuries —to ’ warn
the human race of impending
doom”:
“He is not, even though he
now addresses us from his
home in the Welsh mountains,
an emotional prophet; he
prophesies from facts which
all must recognise. But is he
not wrong in attaching too
little importance to the
commonsense view on nuclear
weapons which millions of
people everywhere hold? No-
body will quarrel with the
proposition that a large-scale
nuclear war would be an utter
disaster, not only to the bel-
ligerents but to mankind, and
would achieve no result that
any sane person could desire.
“Is not that a view now
widely supported, not only by
ordinary citizens everywhere,
but by Governments, and is it
not clear that the policies of
Governments must have been
swayed on occasions by this
very consideration? Lord
Russell appears to ignore the
possibility—which in our view
is a highly important one —
that the nuclear weapon, while
it would make war many
thousands of times more
devastating, has also made it
many thousands of times less
likely to happen.
“Lord Russell lays down his
suggestions for changes in
world outlook which could
lead to renunciation of war, and
much of what he says is
impeccable, though there is a
curiously old-fashioned tone in
his suggestion that a first step
should be a joint declaration
by the United States and the
U.S.S.R. that they will seek to
settle their differences by other
means than war or the threat
of war.
“We need a much more
practical arrangement than
that. Efforts to bring one about
are being made, with some
small success, and from these
efforts, as the climate of
opinion grows more reason-
able, must come eventually an
aggressor-proof agreement to
end for all time the threat of
nuclear devastation. In the
meantime, fear of the bomb
rules the minds of men and
women everywhere. The
spectre sits in every household,
at every gathering of scientists,
in every Cabinet room. And,
during the space of time in
which it takes East and West
to reach a workable agreement,
fear may well be more potent
than scraps of paper.”
On the same subject, London
“Daily Telegraph” adds that
Russell's book “is weakened in
its impact by a central illogi-
cality. It first assumes that
mankind is too basically
irrational to continue in posses-
sion of thermo-nuclear bombs
without blundering into mass
suicide, and then goes on to
conclude from this premise that
the only safe course would be
for mankind to reconcile its
differences a course which
would demand a far more
rational human species than his


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all l'rincipal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
original premise would seem to
allow.
“While pessimistically assum-
ing mankind to be foolish, un-
predictable and sinful for the
purposes of debunking its
present antics he suddenly
switches to an attitude of
sublime optimism about man-
kind’s good-sense and ration-
ality when it comes to explain-
ing how his own new order
could be made to work, To
believe in the permanence of
the thermo-nuclear stalemate,
is, he argues, to believe in
miracles. Commonsense tells
us, he goes on, that all such
arms-races must lead to war.
Yet in the next breath he
adumbrates a Utopian solution
which only a miracle could
bring about, and justifies this
in the name of commonsense.
Only a sage of great eminence
could pass off such incon-
sistency as the higher wisdom.
“Lord Russell is perfectly
right to point out that national
rivalries and ideological con-
flicts lose all meaning when
carried to the brink of race-
suicide. But he would be
wrong to suppose that Western
or Eastern policy-makers are
any less ‘anti-nuclear warfare’
than those who arrogantly
claim for themselves a mono-
poly of this universal senti-
ment. Nobody is ‘pro-nuclear
warfare.’ The argument is
really between those who
would place their faith in a
radical transformation of deep-
rooted human attitudes, which
would avoid war by removing
its causes in the hearts of men,
and those who, pending such
a transformation, rely on
short-term measures of mutual
deterrence.
“It is only natural that
philosophers should concen-
trate on the ideal solution and
politicians on the immediate
necessity of preventing war by
the old-fashioned classical
method of meeting power with
power. Both endeavors are
honorable and, indeed, mutually
supporting. It is as unjust of
Lord Russell to convict
Western leaders of maniacal
lunacy as it would be short-
sighted of Western leaders to
dismiss Lord Russell as a
senile Cassandra.”
New Soviet Education
"Mew York “Herald-Tribune”
comment on Khrushchev’s
new education plan, which,
replacing the compulsory 10-
>ear schooling introduced by
the fifth Five-Year Plan (1950),
“is to take ‘all schoolchildren
without exception’ out of
classes at age 15 or 16 and put
them to ‘useful work’ in
industry, collective farms and
elsewhere”:
“Only a tiny number of the
exceptionally gifted will be
allowed to continue their edu-
cation uninterrupted from
grammar-school through uni-
versity. As for the rest, those
Vicky, in London “New Statesman ”
hardy enough to plough
through years of night-school
or correspondence courses may
obtain university degrees.
“Khrushchev states the
goal: To bring the schools
closer to life, or that no one
should waste his or the State's
time unless his studies will
bring concrete dividends to the
State in his future work.
“Two principal motives seem
to lie behind all this. One is
an increasing manpower shor-
tage, resulting from low Soviet
birthrate and huge casualties
in World War 11. The other
is the appearance of a kind
of new aristocracy in the
Soviet, the children of highly
paid technicians, artists, etc.,
who scorn manual labor and
seek to avoid it.
“There have been a number
of scandals in the Soviet
Union recently involving this
‘beat generation,’ or ‘Stilyagi,’
as they are called. Some of
them have committed robberies
or burglaries in order to
indulge in high life, which
includes American-style jazz.
Khrushchev apparently i s
determined to make sure that
everybody does useful work
with his hands.
“Conceivably this could have
desirable results in teaching
the youth greater self-discipline
and greater respect for work,
Only time will tell what effect
it will have on the develop-
ment of the arts and sciences,
in the stratification of social
groups, in the controlled think-
ing of its citizens. At first
sight it seems a step farther in
the direction of a bee society,
with certain classes earmarked
as drones and only a chosen
few being allowed to soar
higher.”
Nasser's Objectives
/Commenting on suggestions
—lately noted here —that
recent events in the Middle
East point to a showdown
between ’ Nasser and Com-
munist movements in the Arab
world, Judd L. Teller suggests,
in a letter to “New York
Times,” that “the situation is
far more complex.”
Teller, author of a number
of books on the Middle East
and Communism, points out
that Nasser “has moved pri-
marily against all autono-
mists in Syria and toward a
showdown with Baghdad
(Communist or anti-Commu-
nist) for hegemony of the Arab
world, which means rule over
Damascus, Beirut and Amman,
“Indeed, he has moved to
re-establish himself as sole
sppkesman for Arab nation-
alism and to reclaim in full
measure his bargaining posi-
tion vis-a-vis the Kremlin,
seriously, impaired by the
emergence of General el-
Kassem.
“It would be unfortunate if
Nasser were to be heralded as
a great crusader against Com-
munism. Such an attitude on
the part of responsible opinion
in the West could have several
detrimental results. It would
help to accomplish Nasser’s
purpose of re-establishing and
reclaiming stature and ground
he has lost. It would make
the West an ally of an oppres-
sive dictatorship and thus drive
all Nasser opponents into the
Soviet camp.”


Public Notice
Re FREDERICK EDWARD LUD-
GATER, late of 26 Terrace Street, New
Farm, Brisbane, in the State of Queens-
land, Retired Cleaner, deceased.
TO: FREDERICK LUDGATER, father
of the said FREDERICK EDWARD
LUDGATER, the next-of-kin of the
abovenamed deceased, or to any per-
son or persons claiming by, through,
or under him by derivative title or
otherwise. Notice is hereby given that
all persons claiming to be next-of-kin
of the abovenamed, FREDERICK
EDWARD LUDGATER, deceased, late
of 26 Terrace Street, New Farm, Bris-
bane, aforesaid, who died on or about
the thirty-first day of December, One
thousand nine hundred and fifty-.seven,
at Eventide, Sandgate, in the said
State, or any persons claiming by,
through or under the said next-of-kin
by derivative title, or otherwise, are
hereby required to forward proof of
their relationship to the Public Curator,
Edward Street, Brisbane, aforesaid on
or before the thirtieth day of April,
One thousand nine hundred and fifty-
nine and that after the expiration of
the ■ last mentioned date the Public
Curator will proceed to distribute the
assets of the said deceased amongst the
parties entitled having regard only •to
the claims of which he shall then
have had notice.
DATED this twenty-eighth day of
January. 1959.
ALAN FORD, Public Curator, Brisbane,
Queensland.
brandy, and it revived him con-
siderably.* He was assisted to
his feet and, supported by his
mates, came over to" me, stuck
out his hand, and said: “It
was a good fight, and the best
man won.”
I said I was very sorry that
it had happened, and we
parted the best of friends.
I lost nothing by the incident.
News travelled fast, and lost
nothing in the telling. At
Combogolong the station stock-
man, who was to escort the
cattle through the property, was
eager for details. He didn’t
even say “Good-day.” His
first words were, “Which is
the cove who dropped Curly
Miles in one hit?” When I
was pointed out, he shook
hands vigorously, and said,
“Curly king-hit me in Walgett
two years ago, and when I
went down he put the flaming
boot into me, so I’m damn’
glad to meet a cove who
walloped him.”
When I made light of the
subject he put it down to
modesty on my part, and went
to Dutchy to get the story.
He got it. Dutchy had no
equal as a leg-puller in the
outback, or any other place.'
In a quiet, sincere way he
would build a yarn up till, as
he often said, “I damn’ near
believed it myself.” And he
always reckoned the Cambogo-
long stockman was the best
audience he ever had.
When we reached the
boundary, late in the afternoon,
the stockman shook hands all
round, leaving me until last.
He held my hand, and said:
“I knew you were a good
fighter as soon as I looked
at you.”
And that is how reputations
are made, if you have a mate
like Dutchy.
YY/e had been six days on the
road, and had travelled
nearly 70 miles. Feed had
been good and water plentiful,
and the cattle were in good
condition. Best of all, there
were no rogues in the mob,
as one cranky beast can make
a drover’s life very unhappy,
day and night.
So far we had been lucky
enough to get good camps,
where we could close a gate
and sleep in peace. Now we
were in the “wide open spaces”
and had to watch the mob at
night.
Night-riding is a monotonous
job. Though each man had
only a two-hour shift, it always
seemed twice that. Four-
hundred-and-five head of cattle
is not a big mob, but when
camped they cover a lot of
ground. The rider’s job is to
let any restless bullock know
he is about without disturbing
the remainder of the mob, so
he must ride 50yds. or so
away from them, and push the
occasional straggler back. For
the benefit of those who have
seen -American-cowboy films
and* admired the hero dressed
in gaudy clothes riding' a
perfectly - groomed horse
whose saddle and bridle are
covered with silver ornaments
flashing in the moonlight, no
Australian drover has any
frills, nor does he play a
guitar or sing. In fact, he
makes himself as inconspicuous
as possible when night-riding.
A flash of light from a
buckle has been known to
start a mad rush with nervous
cattle. Therefore he does not
smoke or make any unneces-
sary noise on his rounds, be-
cause he knows cattle need
sleep, like any animal, and after
a long day’s march don’t need
any lullaby. Or perhaps Aus-
tralian cattle have no ear for
music.
YX/'E reached Walgett on the
10th day, and, though the v
railway from Narrabri had
been completed, it was the
same little town as on our
visit a couple of years pre-
viously. At the Barwon, E.
Rich and Co’s, shed, where we
had loaded the Wandering Jew
in 1905, had been pulled down,
the railway having put the
finishing touches on the river-
boats.
The first night out from the
Barwon it rained. It was good
steady rain, welcomed by the
squatters, cursed by drovers
or anyone unlucky enough to
be out in it. We had pitched
the tent in time, and. Cock was
able to give us a good feed.
He was on first watch, and
went off cheerfully. I was to
follow him, and w-as not look-
ing forward to it with pleasure.
He had been out about an
hour when Frank shook me
awake, and said: “I think
there’s something wrong. The
mob is doing a lot of bellow-
ing, and I heard Cock yell
several times.”
He was right. We were
saddled-up and away in a few
minutes. When we caught-up
with the mob they were over a
mile from the camp, with Cock
riding backward and forward
trying to stop them. It was
not a “rush,” but a “drift.”
As Cock said: “When I’d go
to one side to turn ’em back,
the borsteds would go out on
the other.”
We cheered him up by tell-
ing him he had done a good
job and none of us could have
done any better, which was
a fact. When cattle rush, you
can only follow them, hoping
for the best, till they knock-up.
No man accustomed to cattle
would try to stop them, unless
he was drunk or wanted to
commit suicide. When they
drift the only thing that can
be done is try to turn them
and get them circling, or
ringing as the drover terms it.
Frank suggested that, as
they were going in the right
direction, we let them go till
they tired, steadying the
leaders and keeping the
stragglers up. We all knew
there would be no sleep for us
that night, so we took his
advice. Dutchy went back to
bring up the buggy and gear,
while we, with Frank on one
wing, myself on the other and
Cock bringing up the rear, kept
the mob steady.
TAaylight came, with the rain
falling steadily. Though
we all had oilskin coats the
rain had been so persistent that
the dampness got through, and
we were cold, wet and miser-
able. There was no point in
changing into dry clothes ; in
an hour they would be wet
again, and we would still be in
the same position.
The cattle stood around in
small groups, too weary to
do more than snatch a mouth-
ful of grass occasionally.
Horses stood with backs
humped and rumps turned to
the rain. We carried chaff
and oats, and had fed them all
through the trip, as we had to
keep them ready to mount at
a moment’s notice, night or
day.
The only dry place was
under the tarp. on the buggy,
and two at a time we crawled
in, and, despite our sodden
clothes, managed to get some
sleep. Midday, the rain eased-
off to occasional showers, and
knowing they would come to
a fence sooner or later we let
them go, being too tired to
worry any further.
We caught up with them
shortly after daylight at the
Gooraway boundary, feeding.
placidly along the fence. After
a count showed a full tally of
405 we got a fire going,
changed into dry clothes, and
had a good feed, and the world
didn’t seem a bad place, after
all. Dutchy even reckoned
droving was a good game, as
you could see the country and
get paid for it.
/'T'ooraway homestead was in
sight, about three miles
from the boundary, and as we
could not cross without report-
ing I rode over to the house.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
STjACKSON &
JL- O'SULLIVAN
PTYLTD .
■«*»*!? c
mark
JacksonS O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Fcrs;iison & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER 3
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE, AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Establiihed 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
2V.S.W'. Branch:
8 Spring; Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
Actually we were supposed to
give 24 hours’ notice of our
intention to cross, but the
manager, a big, jovial, red-
faced man, laughed-off my
apologies. He said: “Bring
’em through. I’ve got no cattle
here. Not even a blanky milk-
ing-cow.”
This was not unusual.
Stations with thousands of
cattle would never have
milkers, but bought their milk
in tins. Butter would be bought
in town, and used up quickly,
especially in summer-time.
Many homesteads had a Cool-
gardie-safe, which was a
frame covered with fiyproof
netting. On top was a wide,
flat pan, and strips of hessian
hung from the pan to the floor.
These strips would draw water
and keep the air in the safe
reasonably cool, and meat
could be kept for a few days
and butter would be fresh for
a week. Even at some home-
steads on company stations, or
at those of absentee owners,
living-conditions were just as
primitive as those of the
station-hands.
We dawdled through Goora-
way. revelling in the glorious
sunshine, as happy as larks.
At the turn-off to Lightmug
Ridge a camping-reserve for
travelling stock was available,
so we had the night fiee from
worry. As Frank was leaving
us here we decided to escort
him to the “Ridge.”
r T v HE pub there was much
bigger than the usual run
of pubs outback, and it was
nearly full when we arrived.
Frank was expecting to meet
several old mates from W.A.
He didn’t have to wait long.
A short, bull-necked man
forced his way through the
crowd, thrust his hand out, and
said, “Frank, you bloody old
bastard!” Hands clasped, left
hands on shoulders, they stood
for a few minutes, asking
questions, not waiting for
replies, till half-a-dozen more
hard-bitten men literally fell
on him. They pumped his
hand, smacked him on the
back, swore at him and each
other, then took possession of
a section of the bar.
Frank held up his hand for
silence: “Wait a bit, lads.
There’s some mates of mine
here.” The short man, whose
only name 1 ever heard was
Stumpy, roared: ‘ Mates of
yours? Then they’re bloody
mates of mine.”* And we were
pushed, pummelled and sworn
at ; our hands were nearly
torn off, so vigorous were their
handclasps ; and beers were
put in front of us, with
instructions to “Sink ’em
down, and have another.”
All were men in their middle
years, and having been
vouched for by Frank Farrell
we were accepted without any
reservations as men worthy
to be mates of a West Aus-
tralian, despite our youth.
. Packets of opal were proudly
exhibited ; slabs, splinters and
drops. Even when not cut or
polished black opal is the most
beautiful gem in the world.
In the lamplight the flash of
colored fire, black, green, blue.
and red, was dazzling.
After the stones had been
examined all hands returned to
the business of serious drink-
ing. Cock was in first-class
form, and attracted a lot of
admiration by his method of
drinking, also by the quantity
he couid drink. Some reckoned
he must have hollow bones,
else he w-ould not be abie to
hold so much. He was modest
about it. “Cor blime,” he
said, “you should see me ole
pot-and-pan. He can drink
twice as much as me.”
The Cockney rhyming-slang,
which was new to Australia
then, also amused them, and'
was adopted at once. Requests
were heard for “A jack-scratch
to light me cherry-ripe,” or
“Breast the near-an'-far, an’
have a drop of oh-my-dear,”
and so on.
Cock had bought working-
clothes in Walgett, but refused
to part with his dreadful cap.
It had been slept in, used to
lift billies off the fire, trodden
on, or kicked, and the wheels
of the buggy had been over
it. The peak flopped up and
down, and it looked like.a bit
of rag perched on his head.
Frank thought that Cock
clung to his cap because it
was his last remaining link with
his homeland.
Closing-time came with the
entry of the sergeant and a
constable. Two pints were
drawn and set before them.
The sergeant looked at his
watch, and said, before drink-
ing: “Better close her up,
Jim.” The publican nodded,
yelled “Time, boys!” closed
the doors and got behind the
bar, and the two policemen
tucked their caps under their
coats and the drinking went on,
with the two holding their end
up valiantly.
The sergeant w'as intro-
duced as “Tom.” Surnames
never seemed to matter in the
bush, even to policemen.
1 was fighting a losing battle
with the beer, so refused to
have any more. No one w'as
offended, and my mates were
also ready to go. Frank and
Stumpy came out to help saddle
our horses and see us safely
off. Their handshakes were
firm and long, and we promised
to write to them occasionally.
I kept my word on writing, and
corresponded with Frank for
several years. He did well at
Lightning Ridge, but when the
opal cut-out he went back to
W.A., and we got out of touch.
'T'hree days, and we came to
-*■ Angledool. Like most of
the back-country villages it was
supposed to be on a river, in
this case the Narran. But
though I saw several little
depressions around Angledool
I wouldn’t know which was
supposed to be the Narran
River. As the locats are some-
what touchy on this subject,
only foolish strangers, or those
under the influence, ever make
rude remarks about rivers
when north or west of the
Darling.
We handed-over the cattle in
good condition, tally correct,
and cashed the cheque at the
pub, in the traditional manner.
The agent, who was pleased
with the condition of the mob,
offered us 3000 sheep to go
from Walgett to Uliman, on
fhe Liverpool Plains.
Naturally, we jumped at the
chance. We had been thinking
of trying our luck in Queens-
land, but a bird in the hand is
always better than 10 in the
bush.
{To be concluded next week)


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRATA AN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Wool
As far as the ordinary
individual is concerned the use
of .wool is being sabotaged by
inflated prices, styles based on
tenth-rate Hollywood films and
a marked lack of interest by
the local grower as to the
requirements of the man-in-the-
street —to say nothing of the
woman-in-the-house.
The reefer jacket, so much
in demand, sets one back any-
thing from 15 to 30 guineas
off the hook, and the only
alternative' to this is the “Ivy
League” horse-blanket horror
at more or less the same prices.
Last year the selling-point of a
very ordinary cardigan for a
man was that it was worn by
a much-limelighted TV com-
pere. Nothing was said of the
quality of the garment, and the
buyer was expected to cough-
up and look pleased when he
got sixpence change from £9.
Recent advertisements price a
cream cardigan suitable for
bowlers at over £l3!
In the medium-price field,
usually produced at sale-time,
the quality of apparel and
household goods tends too
much to the shoddy, giving one
the impression that a mixture of
reclaimed and low-priced yarns
has been used. The use of
reclaimed wool was much
favored by Continental
manufacturers of garments and
blankets, and it would appear
that the practice is gaining
ground in Australia.
Whether we like it or not
it must be admitted that the
threat or rumors of war do
much to sell our wool, but
that is no reason why the needs
of the Australian consumer,
male and female, should not
be fully met in both price and
quality. A Victorian firm,
famous for its range of mens’
trousers and womens’ skirts,
shows what can be done in
this respect for both work-
manship and price.
Some of the large depart-
ment-stores should stress the
domestic value of Wool in their
staff-training schemes. After all,
the more woollen goods they
sell the safer their jobs are. —•
O. D. W. (Vic.).
West New Guinea
Charles Meeking is unjust in
saying that if the tribesmen
of West New Guinea are still
“While Miss Johnson is out of the room I'd like to
interpolate a few words on the menace of equal pay to
industry
primitive after four centuries
of Dutch control it doesn’t say
much for the Hollanders (B.
14/1/’59). Before the last
quarter-century economic and
medical factors rendered any
substantial development of
Dutch New Guinea imprac-
ticable, and even under
modern conditions it is likely
to be an enormous task.
Moreover, the Dutch Crown
did not take control of Indo-
nesia until the 19th century.
Previously the Netherlands
East Indian possessions were
controlled by the Dutch East
India Company, a trading
organisation concerned mainly
with profits and averse to
pioneering territories which
wouldn’t yield quick returns.
Thus it took no interest in
Australia because it was a
land inhabited by primitives,
with no apparent mineral
resources and no rich tropical
products. Holland’s rich archi-
pelago was a far more attrac-
tive investment than moun-
tainous, thickly jungled West
New Guinea with its fierce
tribesmen.
It would be just as much an
exercise in “colonialism” for
the Dutch New Guinea natives
to be controlled from Indo-
nesia as from Holland. But
there is this difference: the
professed aim of the Dutch is
to guide the natives until they
are advanced enough to decide
their own destiny. The Indo-
nesians profess no such pur-
pose. Nor is Indonesia com-
petent to do the job: it cannot
even maintain order within its
own territory.
The civilising of New Guinea
will be a long and trying task.
But countries like Australia
and the Netherlands are better
qualified for the job eco-
nomically, socially and politi-
cally—than Indonesia, whose
capacity in government is un-
proved, and most of whose
people are illiterate.
If granted Dutch New
Guinea, Indonesia might,
through lack of resources, be
tempted to grant concessions
to Russia or Communist China
that could be used as bases to
spread subversive propaganda
throughout Australian New
Guinea. Terry the Tory
(N.S.W.).
Charles Meeking’s argu-
ments (B. 14/1/’59) sound
reasonable, but I don’t agree
with them, particularly his
attempts to link-up the peoples
of West N.G. and the so-
called Indonesians, and his
assertion that, anyway, they’re
closer than the Dutch. That
isn’t the point at all.
The important thing is who
controls West N.G. —someone
friendly to us, or someone you
can’t even pin-down as a nation
at all —someone pretty closely
linked with our enemies?
For some reason we insist on
believing that the other
fellow has the same standards
as ours; and our fatuous
assumption that agreements
with the present Indonesian
Government would have the
same stability as those made
. with the U.K. or U.S. leads
us into all kinds of weird
reasoning.
We know that if we make a
sensible concession in dealing
with such countries as England
and the U.S. there is every
possibility that it will be duly
recognised and something
allowed in return. With the
forces of Asiatic Communism,
or nationalism, no such stan-
dards hold good. A con-
cession on our part is taken for
one thing and one thing only—
a sign of weakness.
Their reasoning is perfectly
simple, and sound. They say:
“We don’t make concessions
to anyone unless we absolutely
have to. Therefore, these
fellows, by this concession,
have shown a weak spot. Let’s
into them!” —R.H.G. (W.A.).
False Economics
In my youth, Domain
orators held that if the workers
were not able to buy back the
whole of their product, then
working-class living-standards
would decline to starvation-
point.
That is one of several myths
which persist from the dark


ages of social thinking and
still cloud the minds of some
who should know better. I
heard a modern version of it
quoted, quite recently, by a
university graduate.
Actually, in all but the most
primitive societies, there always
have been profit-taking groups
or individuals whose rewards
have been out of proportion
to their apparent contribution
to the common fund. The
accumulation of great wealth
in a few idle hands has often,
though not always (a notable
exception is the U.S.A. of our
day), been associated with an
impoverished working - class ;
but if the relationship between
wealth on the one hand and
penury on the other were
always one of cause and effect,
the human race would have
starved itself to death centuries
ago.
The “total distribution” rule
might apply where the whole
production of a community is
barely enough to support the
workers. The smaller the over-
all production, the fewer idlers
can be fed ; but any increase
in the product of labor will
either support a larger drone-
colony or give the workers
something more than bare sub-
sistence. In practice, some
apportionment is usually made.
Take a hypothetical primi-
tive community where the
workers consume 90 per cent,
of their own product and are
on the breadline, and a handful
of landlords enjoy the remain-
ing 10 per cent.; then assume
the production per head to be
doubled. Assume further that
the landlords —or capitalists, as
they now would be —take 50
per cent, of the increase. The
workers who were buying-back
90 per cent, of their product
are now getting only 70 per
cent, of what they grow and
make, yet are over 50 per cent,
better off than before.
That states, broadly and
simply, what industrial evolu-
tion has accomplished since
Watt harnessed steam.
Where time and events have
shown the conclusions of 19th-
century economists to be
wrong, then either their logic
must have been faulty or their
premises false. If our “Labor”
leaders would realise that
Marx and Engels are as dead
as Adam Smith, and amateur
sociologists bring their reading
up to date, we’d hear less
twaddle on this subject.
If the democracies are to
develop a practical answer to
Communism, then the man-in-
the-street must learn to apply
cold reason, based on facts, to
the old wives’ tales that enter-
tained his grandparents, and
to open his mind to some fresh
ideas on the problem of
wealth - distribution. Jas.
Macansh (Q.).
Sunday Driver-drinkers
The advice “if you drink,
don’t drive” is given so often
by police and road-safety
authorities that I wonder why
the law makes it so easy for
drivers to drink on Sundays
and so run the risk of being
involved in an accident or be-
ing arrested for driving under
the influence.
Nearly all those who qualify
as travellers on Sundays get to
their hotels by car, and if the
authorities really believed in
their slogan of not drinking
while driving, they would relate
their liquor legislation to
road-safety legislation and
make it illegal for the man
behind the wheel to drink until
his car is safely in the garage
at home. But then, of course,
if he walked across the street
to have a quick one at the local
he would be liable to prose-
cution for being illegally on
licenced premises. Peter
Simple (N.S.W.).
Libraries and Sport
The Public Library Board
of W.A., revitalised a few
years ago and given more
funds and greater scope, has
done a wonderful job. The
State library in Perth has been
remodelled and modernised,
and new publications have
been added to the extent that
in a couple of years all the
available space will be occu-
pied. Then the board will be
faced with the problem of
accommodating new publica-
tions, and to keep the library
up to date it looks as though
some of the older works and
periodicals will be scrapped
while they’re still valuable.
The board has also spread
the library’s services over a
big part of the State and has
30 public libraries operating.
These take in the combined
areas of 37 local-government
districts, one notable example
being the Gascoyne Public
Library at Carnarvon. This
library is supported by three
districts —Carnarvon Municipal
Council, Gascoyne - Minilya
Road Board, and Upper
Gascoyne Road Board
and with "its postal services
it covers 45,000 square-
miles, probably a world-record
coverage for one library. In
Faith in the
Future
This year is already showing signs of being
a decisive one in our developmental history; a
year in which we will have come well on towards
reaching the long-sought objective of a national
system of roads.
A National Roads Conference, called by the
Commonwealth Government to meet at Canberra
on February 12 will be the first of a series of
top-level discussions on road policy by State and
Federal leaders.
This is most important; for I believe that
here is one phase of our development in which
necessity is going to drive us.
The population grows, the economy expands.
And there is not as yet the transport structure to
keep current pace with them, much less provide
for demands of the future.
Every day brings more vehicles on to the
roads. Every week increases the need for greater
mobility in the industries on which our living
depends. Every month takes higher the cost that
eventually will have to be paid for the roads that,
sooner or later, must be built.
So 1959 will be a momentous year if it marks
the chanelling of some of our accepted Faith in
this country into a big. bold programme to give
it a thorough system of roads.
As a physical challenge it is well within our
capacity to meet. We have the trained human
resources to take care of the planning and engineer-
ing. We have, or can acquire, the most modem
machinery for quick and efficient execution.
The real bars to an earlier solution of our
increasingly urgent road problem have been finance,
and the division of powers as between Govern-
ments. But how can those two impediments stand
against courage, determination, and a generous
national will?
I believe the coming conferences will produce
some of the highest tests of statesmanship since
Australia became a Federation; indeed, since this
land was a small colony.
Roads were a first requirement in Governor
Macquarie’s time, and he is best remembered
now for what he did in providing them. They
are our country’s most compelling domestic
requirement today.
H. Hastings Peering


another district (Nullagine)
there are 200-odd people
spread over 93,000 square-
miles, and through their local
library they have the whole
resources of the State library
available to them.
That’s part of what’s been
done. Some idea of what
remains to be done is shown
by the waiting-list of road
boards and municipalities
which want libraries.
“We sure turn ’em out like sausages , don't We?”
Meanwhile money’s running
out. The waiting-list can’t be
reduced as it should be because
of shortage of funds. The
State-library main building,
although remodelled, is still
much the same size as when
it was first built last century ;
the Government can’t supply
the necessary funds, and indi-
cations are that it won’t be
able to, at least until after the
Empire Games in 1962.
The Games aren’t the sole
cause of public-funds shortages
in W.A., but they high-
light the relative posi-
tions of sport and culture
in the big State. Already an
extremely high proportion of
“road” rates are devoted to
bowling-greens and croquet-
lawns, football-fields and
recreation-grounds ; and while
sport, particularly juvenile
sport, should be encouraged
and aided, it shouldn’t be
entirely at the expense of
culture and education. The
board controlling my own
suburban road-district spent
£BOO last year on its bowling-
greens ; yet when a representa-
tive of the library board came
to inspect the accommodation
available for a library he was
shown a small, ill-lit, dingy
room in an out-of-the-way
spot at the rear of'an old hall.
He had to say it was unsuitable.
Yet that board, with every
other board in the Perth
metropolitan area, will this
year debate the possibility of
raising the rates to provide for
a contribution to the Empire
Games.
In W.A., and particularly in
Perth, many times as much
rate-money is spent on sporting
facilities as is devoted to road-
making, despite the acknow-
ledged fact that our poor roads
are largely responsible for the
mounting accident-rate. Now
the position has been reached
where a State which claims it
can pay for the Empire Games
can’t afford to expand its
cultural activities.
There are many aspects of
national life, and in Australia
sport heads the list. That
mightn’t be so bad if culture
wasn’t so far down the list. —
Pieter Nuyts (W.A.).
Speaking English
The reluctance of New
Australians generally to be-
come fluent in English (B.
14/1/’59) is in strong contrast
to the Japanese attitude
between world wars, when they
missed no chance to perfect
themselves in the language,
recognising it as the Esperanto
of trade.
Jn 1933, when following her
naval husband round Far
Eastern stations, Joy Packer
noted with surprise (in Pack
and Follow) that even con-
versations between the
Japanese officers of her ship
and the port authorities at
Keelung, Formosa, were all
carried on in English of a
sort.
When she and a companion
were forbidden to explore
Keelung alone, lest they be
spies, the shipping-company’s
agent there, Mr. Mikimoto,
eagerly volunteered to accom-
pany them, as this would give
him a chance to practise his
English.— Emel (Vic.).
Who Will Give a Lead?
Current events indicate that
Australia’s economy does not
now depend wholly on the
maintenance of high wool-
prices. Despite the fail in wool
values and a record “low” in
wheat-production last season,
employment in Australia is still
high, sharemarkets are
buoyant and public spending
goes merrily on.
It is all to the good that our
eggs are not now all in one
basket. Far better that our
national incomes should come
from a variety of sources than
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 524
Across
I—Authorising fighting talk. (10)
6 —Eden’s character for which a mother is responsible. (4)
10— Roy Rene on knitwear cows. (11)
11 — Having possession of the torn gown in gin now spilt. (6)
12— Stationery French in five run off to marry. (8)
14 —1 follow the little devil into the Kaffir army. (4)
16 —Sound the horn before I interrupt
her for displaying more fangs. (8)
19 — Battered bat alive in a case. (8)
20 — Seaweed tail cut off a dog. (4)
22 — Fellow whose health 1 restore
with a handy treatment. (8)
23 Gratification struck one Pacific
isle. (6)
26 — Not outs eternally mentioned by
a seaman to the French cannot
be cut. (11)
27 — We get around all of Kipling’s
poem, or only the better half. (4)
28 — The state of the threefold
excursion to the 51 metropolis.
(10)
Down
1 — Walter bounding along and beat-
ing the art of breaching
enclosures? (9)
2 Don’t stop charging head-first
into a Spanish boy. (5)
3 A spring to be in plenty. (6)
4 Josephine’s present may be
inscribed like this Japanese
warmonger. (4)
5 Case I’m on upset an aboriginal.
(10)
7 Record our south-east talk. (9).
8 — Brawl in which the sheltered side
is allied with me. (5)
9 He’s far from orthodox in this
place twitch. (7)
13—Scottish stream for anyone who
develops with bountiful health.
(5, 5)
15 —Quarrel with the ugly suit-bringer.
(9)
17 — The condition of the double
deceit. (9)
18 — Sugar clues go wrong. (7)
21— Meat essayist has a morning in
the pound. (4)
22 Awson screecher makes a small
mother crow's call. (5)
24 Ancient Britons seen in the nice
nineties. (5)
25 An actor’s job overturned a
carriage snare. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 523.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS. ,
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
that wool should be the major
contributing factor, however
high its value might be. Trade-
missions overseas have brought
back substantial orders for
locally produced goods; and
the quantity and quality of
our metal-production sug-
gests that a few years hence
the income from this source
will reach a very high figure
indeed. Some enthusiasts
believe that it will exceed our
wool-cheque.
In the coal industry alone is
the outlook gloomy, but that
is due to circumstances largely
beyond our control. Profitable
coal-production today depends
largely on mechanisation, but
the product still has to be sold
on a steadily diminishing
market —the result of the
centralisation of electricity-
generation and the substitution
of diesel- and electric-motors
for coal-fired engines on the
railways. When the power-
output from the Snowy
Mountains is at its peak a few
years hence there will be a still
further lessening of demand
for coal.
It is futile to blame the
miners for the state of their
industry today. Certainly they
abused their industrial power
in coal’s heyday ; but mecha-
nisation would have come
regardless of strikes. A similar
fate awaits other industries to
which automation can, and
will, be applied in the next 10
or 20 years. Temporary un-
employment for many workers
will be the inevitable conse-
quence of this change, and,
unless we plan intelligently in
advance, much of this un-
employment may become per-
manent.
Just who is to save us from
this tragedy is not clear at the
moment. Certainly not the
politicians ; and, unless their
thinking becomes much more
realistic, not the economists
either —most of them are still
living in the wool-and-wheat
age. We are being given fair
warning of the fruits of auto-
mation, both good and bad,
but unfortunately no one has
yet arisen to give a bold lead
in preparing to meet them. —
Drx (N.S.W.).
Compulsory Training
I fully support George
Patterson’s sentiments in
“Danger of False Security”
(B. 14/1 /’59), but I was sur-
prised that he was so vague
about the pre-1914 compul-
sory training.
The training years were: 12
to 14 years of age, junior
cadets—no uniform ; 14 to 18,
senior cadets—uniform consis-
ting of hat and area number,
shirt, strides and belt, putties
and boots; 18 to 26, citizen
forces—full uniform and rifle.
In Victoria, the big private-
and high-schools were solidly
behind the training, and what
was pumped into us at the age
of 16 really stuck.
At the age of 60 I can still
rattle-off the details of “Slope
Arms” and “Present Arms,”
etc., and, lest someone sneer
at this accomplishment, let me
say that when i joined the first
A.T.F. while still a kid, the
endless drill necessary to pump
this knowledge into the 30-40
age-group was a tragedy.
These men somehow resented
the training necessary to fit
them to perform elementary
movements and to do guard-
duty, with the result that re-
inforcements were held-up here
when they should have been
overseas.
Considering the small
number of hours that the
cadets trained (64 hours in six
months, 1 think) the know-
ledge picked up was a credit to
the system and to the instruc-
tors. The medical standards
for the citizen forces were high,
and many of us who failed
them were able to pass the
doctors at the town-hall and
enlist for overseas.
After the 1914-18 war, those
ot us who were under 26
years were instructed to con-
tinue our training. We went
on strike, so the understanding
man at the head of affairs
released us from further obliga-
tions. Billy Hughes was his
name. Having established that
we had done our fair share of
training, some of us later
decided to carry-on, and it
was then, in the Naval Reserve,
that I saw “compulsory train-
ing” at its best. The boys were
varied and versatile, and the
instructors were good. When
Scullin scrubbed compulsion,
the system went downhill
somewhat, except that the far-
sighted and those who liked
the service, ships and the sea
carried-on, to form the nucleus
for the rapid expansion which
commenced in 1939. Then, as
in 1914, the men with the
early training promptly became
good sailors. To be sure,
plenty of smart men came
along later, but the-initial brunt
Vvas carried by the pre-war
Saturday-afternoon sailors.
Looking back, I can find no
fault with the old compul-
sory-training system as it was
when introduced by the Fisher
Labor Government. It was
designed to catch us young at
our most formative years, and
to lay a foundation of military
knowledge which could be
expanded quickly. It kept us
off the streets at night to some
degree and, in our early years,
it increased our knowledge of
human nature. It was revealing
to find that the youth of 16
or 17, who had to work in his
father’s shop after school and
who consequently could not
play football or cricket with us
every evening, could neverthe-
less make time to study the
“Handbook of Military Train-
ing” and could, when n.c.o.
selection-day came round,
stand out in front and blast the
sox off the platoon of us like
a permanent R.S.M.
And, in spite of our doubts
about R.S.M.s’ parentage,
they were men. Let's have
more of them, and compulsory
training, too, for the good of
our children and for the good
of Australia. — Wavy N (Vic.).


JOOttd
SA1
100 % Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S BrA '““ D
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE • BARBED WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Oar MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
rnt
&g
&
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blaekwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
PROS AND CONS OF CLOSING A FLOCK
By HELEN NEWTON TURNER
CJheep-breeders are some-
times faced, with the
problem of deciding whether to
close their flocks against intro-
ductions of breeding-stock,
There is no single answer to
this question, and each breeder
must balance the advantages
The removal of
worms from sheep is
comparatively easy
but how can reinfesta-
tion be avoided? Keep-
ing sheep that have
been freed of worms
from reinfestation is
greatly aided by put-
ting them on a pad-
dock which has been
spelled for three or
four weeks. This
allows time for larva
worms expelled by
earlier docks to die.
An excellent way to
avoid shock and
disease arising from
marking and tailing is
to use Elastrator Rub-
ber Rings on the
lambs rather than the
knife. Being blood-
less the Elastrator
System of marking
and tailing offers
little, if any, attrac-
tion to germ-carrying
dies.
and disadvantages for himself.
Certain factors likely to
influence the decision can be
defined, however, though some
may appear at first sight to
have little bearing on the
problem. As three-quarters of
Australia’s sheep are Merinos,
let us consider some of these
factors for the Merino industry,
where at present the main
emphasis is on wool-produc-
tion.
First, let us look at the
general structure of the
industry. Merino - breeding
properties can be classified
broadly into two types —studs
selling breeding-stock and
wool, and woolgrowing flocks
selling wool and surplus sheep.
The stud-industry has a clearly
defined pattern of (i) “parent”
studs, (ii) “daughter” studs,
which buy breeding-stock from
a single parent or from another
daughter based on the same
parent, and (iii) “general”
studs, which buy from more
than one source. The parent
studs are few in number and
are closed. Daughter studs are
in effect multipliers of the
parent on which they depend.
Some daughters, as well as
some general studs, use vary-
ing proportions of rams of their
own breeding.
Some woolgrowing flocks
breed their own rams, but in
an analysis of the Australian
Stud Merino Flock Register it
has been estimated that 65 per
cent, of the rams used in the
industry in 1945 came from
the registered studs, while in
1950 the figure was 90 per cent.
The studs thus have a tre-
mendous influence on the Aus-
tralian sheep-population.
Can we assess what has been
accomplished by the industry?
The aim of most Merino-
growers is to produce as much
wool as possible of a given
quality, while keeping the
fertility of their flocks high.
Accurate historical figures of
cuts per head are hard to
obtain. From the official
statistics available, however, :t
is clear that substantial gains in
fleece-weight per head have
been achieved over the last
century, though it is also clear
that the rate of gain over the
second half-century has been
less than in the first. Within
the breed, distinct strains have
developed, with differences in
quality and quantity of wool
which persist in a variety of
environments. The picture for
fertility is not so rosy; the
official statistics show no
indication of any appreciable
increase in lamb-marking per-
centages over the last 50 years.
As productivity in animals
is influenced both by breeding
and by environment, can we
say how much of the past gains
in fleece-weight are due to
genetic improvement and how
much to improved manage-
ment? And is the observed
slackening in the rate of pro-
gress inevitable, or is it reason-
able to hope for further in-
creases? Thanks to the work
of scientists and breeders in
several countries, we are in a
better position to answer these
questions than we were 10
years ago. In animal-breeding,
there are two main sources of
progress selection and
mating-plans—and the relative
importance of each depends on
the way in which variation in
production is inherited. Within
any group of animals of the
same age and sex there in
always considerable variation
in productivity ; the highest
fleece-weight, for example, may
be more than twice the lowest.
If a large enough fraction of
this variation is inherited, then
the method of selection of the
breeding animals is the im-
portant source of genetic
increase in production, and
mating-plans can be kept
simple.
Selection can be applied to
both sexes, and although each
individual obtains its inheri-
tance equally from both
parents, the ram’s influence on
succeeding generations is
greater than the ewe’s because
it leaves many more offspring.
If, as with wool, production
can be measured directly in
both sexes, and if in addition
the productive characters are
highly inherited, then selection
can be in its simplest form and
genetic progress can be rapid.
There is now evidence from
many experiments that charac-
teristics associated with wool-
quantity and -quality are highly
inherited. This means that the
performance of rams in any
characteristic, such as clean
wool-weight, will on the
average indicate the relative
performance of their progeny
without the expense of progeny-
testing, provided the rams
under comparison have been
reared together. Many of the
parent studs have been closed
for a long time, so that selec-
tions have been made from
among groups reared together,
and undoubtedly some of the
gains in fleece-weight and


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
( Incorporated, in Canberra, Australia')
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Anuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
wool-quality have been per-
manent genetic gains.
The second question we are
examining is whether the gains
are as great as they might have
been. Before we tackle this,
let us examine the conditions
for maximum genetic progress
through selection. If we
assume that our aim is to raise
fleece - weight per
head while maintain-
ing wool - quality,
then in selection we
are looking for
animals whose wool
is of a required
quality, with fleece-
weights as high as
possible above the
flock average. The
superiority in fleece-
yv eig h t which is
achieved will be
diminished every
time another charac-
teristic is considered.
Some other charac-
teristics, such as fer-
tility and ability to
survive, must cer-
tainly be taken into
account, but we
should be quite cer-
tain that any features
considered are
directly related to
important productive
characters before
selection is expended
on them.
The superiority of
the selected animals
in wool-quantity and
-quality will be
diminished not only
by wasting selection
o n unimportant
characters but also
by failing to assess
quantity and quality
accurately. In this
connection, the
judgement of the
breeder can be
improved if he uses
measurement as well as visual
appraisal ; actual weighing of
fleeces is a particularly valuable
aid to selection. Another im-
portant factor associated with
the method of selection is the
proportion of animals saved.
The lower this proportion, the
greater the superiority of the
selected animals over the flock
average. The breeder can
influence the proportion by
raising the lambing-percentage,
or by varying the age at which
sheep are culled. By keeping
ewes and rams longer, he
decreases the number of annual
replacements and so increases
the superiority of the selected
animals. However, an increase
in the average age of the
parents lowers the annual rate
of progress, and a balance must
be struck between the two
requirements. In general, the
greatest rate of genetic pro-
gress is achieved if both rams
and ewes are mated as young
as possible, rams being mated
for two or three years and
ewes for six or seven, the
HELEN NEWTON TURNER graduated
from Sydney Uni. as an architect in the
depression years, but, finding the times
not very encouraging for architecture,
immediately went to a shorthand-school
and then took a clerical job in the
McMaster Laboratory. This led her to
research, which she found more interest-
ing, and to her present position as prin-
cipal research-officer at the McMaster
Laboratory, C.S.I.R.O.
actual figure depending on the
lamb-marking percentage.
Without any detailed know-
ledge of stud-breeding policies,
it is not possible to say
whether progress has been at
a maximum. However, past
progress is not so important
as what might be achieved now,
if the requirements for maxi-
mum progress are fulfilled.
Several selection experiments
are in progress in Australia and
the United States, and sub-
stantial gains have been
reported in all of them. One
C.5.1.R.0. experiment can be
quoted as an example. A
medium-Peppin flock main-
tained at Cunnamulla, in south-
west Queensland, has been
closed for six years. Rams and
ewes with too great an amount
of skin-development or too
high a fibre-diameter are
culled, and then those with the
highest clean wool-weights are
selected. By this means, the
average clean-wool weight in
the flock has been raised by
three-quarters of a pound in
six years. This and similar
experiments elsewhere, particu-
larly at the Trangie Experiment
Farm of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, show
quite clearly that further.
genetic progress can be
expected through selection, and
give convincing proof of the
validity of predictions about
such progress. Experiments on
selection for higher lamb-
marking percentages have
shown that though progress
may be made, this charac-
teristic is not so highly in-
herited as wool-weight, and
management is likely to be
more efficient than selection as
a source of improvement.
Having reviewed the factors
on which maximum genetic
progress depends, what can we
say about their relevance to
the problem of closing a flock?
The points which matter will
not be the same for breeders
at all levels of the industry’s
structure. The parent studs, at
the apex, are closed already,
and the problem does not arise.
They have a great responsi-
bility, however, to maintain
the maximum possible genetic
progress, because through them
benefits will reach the industry
as a whole. Many of them are
already adding accurate
measurement to their selection
tools.
Daughter studs may see
some advantage in closing, be-
cause not only do they save
the cost of purchasing rams,
but they can be certain that
a selection policy is being
followed which will lead to
maximum progress, they can
predict what that progress will
be, and they can gain some
intellectual stimulus from con-
trolling the destiny of their
flock. If, however, they know
the selection policy of their
parent stud and the annual pro-
gress being made there, and
have already demonstrated that
sheep from that stud do well on
their own property, then
closing may offer no concrete
advantages.
Certain other factors have
also to be considered. For a
closed flock to obtain maxi-
mum progress, groups of rams
of the same age must be left
entire and run together till
selection, the earliest possible
selection-age advocated at
present being 12 months. The
larger this group of rams, the
better, as the rare outstanding
animals are more likely to be
found in a large group than
a small one. Additional
facilities for holding larger
groups of rams under similar
conditions may therefore need
to be provided.
A small property, on the
other hand, has to consider
the problem of inbreeding,
which at higher levels leads to
decreases in fertility, body-
weight and wool-weight. It is
difficult to state a “safe” level
of inbreeding, but there is no
great danger if five rams are
mated per generation ; in
general, this means a total of
about 15 working rams of all
ages, though in many cases
fewer could be used with
safety.
If a daughter stud or a
general stud breeds some rams
and buys others, the problem
arises of comparing rams
grown under different condi-
tions. A progeny test, with
the various rams mated to
similar ewes and all the pro-
geny subsequently run under
the same conditions, is the only
answer at present. This method
is, of course, used in the
industry, though more accurate
assessment of the actual per-
formance of the progeny
would sometimes be an advan-
tage. Judicious introduction- of
rams whose genetic value
relative to the flock was known
could frequently be used with
advantage by breeders who
were following a coherent
selection-policy of their own.
Woolgrowing properties are
faced with additional diffi-
culties if ever they consider
closing. They are likely to
require even more new rani-
holding facilities than the
studs, and instead of surplus
wethers, they will have for sale
surplus rams or stags, for


SHOES
MADE TO
ORDER
For over 50 years, Byrne Bros, have
been makers of fine shoes. Built into
every pair—no matter whether they be
for men, women, children or surgical
—is the quality and experience neces-
sary to give the wearer the utmost in
comfort and styling.
It doesn't end there, however, for
Byrne Bros.' after-sales service is de-
signed to care for your shoes or boots
for their lifetime.
Repairs, renovation and re-styling are
just part of their many services.
Ring, write or call for further par
ticulars to:—
YRNE BROS. PTY. LTD.
15 Wilmot Street-, Sydney. MA 5865.
(Opposite the Trocadero)
which there may be virtually
no market.
So far we have been con-
sidering closing from the
individual’s viewpoint. What
about the industry as a whole?
The important point here is not
whether one flock or another
closes, but whether the key
studs are pursuing policies
which will lead to maximum
progress. If they do, then the
whole industry shares in the
gains. One of the tools for selec-
tion which can be added to
those already in existence is a
wider use of more accurate
methods of measurement. For
quantity of wool, this means
fleece-weight—greasy in most,
cases, but clean when making a
final selection of top-stud rams.
For quality, the problem is
more difficult, but there is
plenty of evidence that crimp
is not an accurate indicator of
fibre-fineness in individual
animals or flocks, and if wool
is to compete with synthetics,
a manufacturer must know
exactly what he is buying.
More accurate measurement
and concentration on the im-
portant productive characters
at selection, particularly by the
leading studs, are factors which
are of more concern to the
industry as a whole than the
question of closing additional
flocks —with the proviso that in
a democratic country the way
must always be open to any
individual to join the leading
studs if his enterprise and skill
can take him there. But these
important factors are not
necessarily linked to the
question of flock-closure.
The previous discussions
have been on ram-production
and selection. Ewes play a
lesser part in genetic progress,
for reasons already given, but
they play a much greater part
in production of the current
clip, and accurate selection
early in life can have a marked
influence on the production of
the selected ewes for the rest
of their lifetime. If breeders
know what their young ewes
are producing year by year,
they are also in a better posi-
tion to know what progress
they are making, and whether
or not the stud on which they
rely is giving them what they
want. If not, closing the flock
is one alternative which could
be considered.
Possibilities of
The Jeep
“Salopian”: At the Orange
Field-day last November, I was
one of a crowd of admirers of
the “Jeep-a-Trench” exhibit.
Here was an old friend, which
I had learned to respect for its
war-time performance, showing
WILLYS UNIVERSAL JEEP
showing terracing-blade and posthole-digger.
itself in a new guise. There
seemed to be limitless possi-
bilities for its use in agri-
culture.
Men on the land are always
looking for one vehicle to do
many different jobs, often in
difficult places, and if they can
get an effective power-source
into the bargain they are not
likely to grumble. The Aus-
tralian-built Jeep may be their
answer.
A product of war, the Jeep
was designed to provide
reliable transport in battle-
conditions over all types of
country in any part of the
world. In addition it had to
tow supplies wherever troops
needed them, whether roads
existed or not, and to provide
power for driving compressors,
lifting, etc. The prime features
of this mechanical mule had to
be reliability, versatility and
strength.
A few specifications may be
of interest. The Jeep is
powered by a four-cylinder
“F”-head Hurricane engine,
developing 75 b.h.p. at 4000
r.p.m. In four-wheel drive and
with six forward gear-ratios,
it will take-on country with
grades up to 65 per cent. Its
low centre of gravity makes it
completely stable and its sus-
pension can take a lot of
punishment. On the open
road, converted to two-wheel
drive, it is capable of speeds
up to 64 m.p.h.
Most farm-implements can
be worked successfully from
the Jeep. It has power take-
off points placed in front,
centre and rear, which will
provide up to 30 b.h.p. and to
which rotary hoe, mower, post-
hole-digger, baler, disk-harrow
or combine can each be
attached.
• Apart from this, the Jeep
is useful in construction and
earthmoving. Its terracing-
blade is a general-purpose
grader, useful for building and
maintaining terraces, road-grad-
ing, cleaning feedlots and feed-
ing-floors, digging and cleaning
drainage-pipes. In snow-
country, this can be used as a
snow-plough. When reversed,
the blade can be used as a
bulldozer. This blade weighs
3501 b. and may be set at any
angle needed.
The scoop, used for excavat-
ing, cleaning ditches, filling
holes, digging dams, etc., can
be attached in two minutes.
It weighs about 1851 b. and has
a capacity of about six cubic-
feet.
The Australian - produced
winch, driven by the front
power take-off, has a line-pull
of 80001 b. Circular-saws,
hammer-mills, etc., can be
driven from the rear belt-
pulley.
There was a demand for
such a vehicle here, so it’s
now being produced by Willys
Motors (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., in
Brisbane, and its manufacturers
look like becoming producers
not only for Australasia but


GENUINE TILLEY
SPARE PARTS
FOR LAMPS, LANTERNS, IRONS
AND RADIATORS
Although Import Restrictions may
make it more difficult to obtain
ALL the Tilley Spares you need,
limited supplies of every item
ARE available. If your Store-Keeper
is temporarily unable to
help you, ask him to contact
the Australian Agents :
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 Mt. Alexander Road, Essendon, W. 5. Victoria
Phone: FX 4747
also for the Pacific and South-
east Asia.
Red Scale
“North": Red scale (Aoni-
diella aurantii) is the worst of
all the species of scale-insects
that attack citrus - trees,
especially young ones. This
pest is partial to the lemon and
grapefruit trees, does not
bother so much about the
mandarin, but goes for the
orange when it can. Weak
trees are more likely to be
attacked than strong, healthy
ones with a large amount of
foliage, and heavy infestation
may cause the death of an
affected tree.
The insect, which is pro-
tected by a hard scaly covering,
sucks the sap of its host and
weakens it. Young insects are
produced alive, and there are
about five generations each
year. They shelter for a time
under the parent scale, then
make their way along the
affected part and quickly settle
down.''
All parts of a tree may be
attacked: branches, leaves,
twigs, even the fruit. Pro-
tected by their hard covering,
the insects cannot be reached
by most sprays, so white oil’ is
recommended for their destruc-
tion. This may be used at any
time of the year, but January
and February are the best
months for spraying. One part
of white oil to 50 parts of
water, or 1 pint to sgal., well
mixed and sprayed all over the
trees will clean-up the trouble.
The oil adheres to the scales
and kills the insects under-
neath by forming a film
through which they cannot
breathe.
Any dead wood on the tree
should be cut away before
spraying. This treatment will
also clean-up the black smut so
often seen on the foliage of
citrus-trees. •
Watering Pointers
“Big Billy”: Lack of plan-
ning is behind most stock-
watering problems. Any
scheme for watering stock
should be planned for future
development of the property,
and every watering - point
treated as a permanent im-
provement.
When planning for water
think in terms of a week’s
supply and not only for a day.
Put an Bft. fan instead of a
6ft. on any mill, so that the
machine will pump in a breeze
and the sheep will not have to
wait for a wind to get a drink.
Build a solidly constructed
trough with a stone or concrete
apron. It will be all the better
for being short if it is filled
by a l|in. pipe at least. Small
flows such as those from a
iin. ball-cock are only false
economy.
When cattle are run, trough-
ing should be protected by
guard-rails so that joints
aren't broken ; but, if you have
lambs, rails should be low
enough for them to get an
easy drink.
Keep troughs away from
fences, or wires will eventually
be broken and mobs boxed.
Piping is cheaper than all this
trouble.
If a mill has to water three
or four paddocks, don’t put
gates in the same corners. Keep
them well up the fence because
gates and mobs of sheep and
troughs don’t mix.
Remember that the best
watering arrangements can be
wrecked by neglecting the
overflow. Where water finds
its way to a gateway it creates
mud, which becomes dust when
it dries. The overflow may
have to be piped away, be-
cause there’s no quicker way to
undermine foundations than
to leave water lying around.
Automatic cut-out gears are
not always the answer on mills,
because if the wind slackens
when the gear has brought the
mill down to half-speed, it
could easily mean the differ-
ence between a full tank and
one only three-quarters full.
The Brazilian Cherry
“Myall”: The Brazilian
cherry (Eugenia uniflora), a
hardy shrub, which needs little
attention and bears an edible
fruit, does well wherever frost
is not too severe. It is of tall
and compact habit, growing to
the height of 15ft., with glossy
green leaves and a profusion
of white blossoms, followed by
very juicy, bright red fruit
about lin. in diameter. It
makes an attractive ornamental
hedge plant, which stands-up
to severe trimming.
The shrub is prolific, bearing
great quantities of curiously
shaped fruits which have a
distinctive flavor and may be
eaten raw or stewed, or made
into conserves.
An open position on deep
sandy loam suits it best, but
it will thrive in any ordinary
garden soil. Space bushes 12ft.
apart if grown as specimens,
but 6ft. is enough when used
for a hedge or windbreak. It
is easily raised from seed, but
it does not take kindly to trans-
planting, because it is sensitive;
so it’s best to sow the seed
where the plants are to grow,
and do away with any shifting.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(22/1/’59)
Queensland should receive heavy rains during February,
with probable flooding in many areas. Heavy rains are
likely to continue in most of the State during March,
although rainfall may be patchy in the far south-west areas.
Widespread flooding may be expected, particularly on the
north coast and central-west and south-west areas.
N.S.W. should receive general rains during February,
with heavy falls on the North Coast, the northern tablelands
and n.-w. slopes and plains areas and part of the Hunter
River Valley. Rainfall may be patchy and below normal in
March, apart from moderate rain on the coast. However,
moderate general rains should occur in April, with heavy
falls on the central and mid-north coastal districts and part
of the Hunter River Valley.
Victoria should receive general rains above average in
February and reasonably good rains in March. However,
rainfall may become patchy during late autumn and winter.
In South Australia rainfall will probably vary from
moderate to heavy in the agricultural areas and n.-w.
interior, being poor elsewhere. Apart from moderate rain
in the south-east districts, rainfall may be poor in March.
The North Kimberleys of Western Australia should
receive reasonably good rains in February, with poor rainfall
elsewhere in the State. Patchy rains below normal may
follow in March.
LENNOX WALKER.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Vic Honour’s History o 4 f
Queensland Cricket. —6787.
To buy, or make, suitable
exchange for, a gramophone in
good working order. (Must be in
Queensland, within 50 miles of
Brisbane, for easy delivery.) —
6788.
Information Supplied
From “A.W.W.”: The term
“jet-propulsion” (B. 21/1/ ’59) is an
unfortunate misnomer; there is a
reference bearing out this point in
The Journal of the Institute of Auto
and Aero Engineers, 1948 edition,
Vol. VIII. And why is it that a
rocket, the propulsion principal of
which is identical with a jet-engine
Q.e., a rocket carries its oxygen,
while the jet-engine uses oxygen
from the atmosphere) is able to
operate where there is no atmos-
phere? The gases leaving the
nozzle cannot possibly “meet with
air-resistance.”
•As for the balloon example:
when inflated in still air a balloon
has no tendency to move in a
lateral direction, since every area
of resistance to pressure within it
is balanced by an equal one oppo-
site. Remove one point of pressure-
resistance (by releasing the neck)
and a condition of unbalance is
created. Consequently the balloon
will move laterally. The air at the
point of escape only gets in the
way.
This is the reason why a jet air-
craft operates with maximum effici-
ency at great height.
Information Sought
Should food be cooked with or
without salt, and why ?
Depends on the nature of the
food. Dietitions advise as follows:
Vegetables should be salted during
the last 10 minutes of cooking;
boiled meats and stews salted be-
fore serving or thickening; roasts
lightly salted when put into the
oven; fried meats salted before
serving; soups well salted when
being made, to extract the meat
juices; cakes, puddings, custards,
etc., should all contain a pinch of
salt when assembling materials for
cooking. It is considered that salt
is inclined to harden the fibres of
vegetables and to extract flavors
which should be retained. The
common practice of salting all foods
when they are put on to cook is
not a good one, and is mainly due
to fear of forgetting to add it at
the proper moment.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for a green paint
made from lime suitable for paint-
ing lattice-work ? (2) Method of
stopping white-ants from eating
-woodwork embedded in the ground?
(1) Assemble two pecks unslaked
lime, one peck common salt, 31b.
rice-flour, j-lb. whiting, lib. clean
glue and sufficient water for mixing.
Slake the lime with water in a
vessel of about lOgals. capacity;
cover, strain it and add the salt,
previously dissolved in hot water.
Boil the rice-flour in water; soak the
glue in water and dissolve in a
gluepot or over a water bath; add
rice and glue to the whiting, then
add to the main mixture with sgals.
of hot water, stirring well all the
time. Cover from dirt, allow to
stand for a few days before use,
and make it hot to paint on the
wood; keep hot during application.
May be colored by the addition of
dry color bought from a paint-store.
(2) Remove soil from about wood-
work and apply kerosene plentifully
to woodwork. Two or three appli-
cations a year should be enough.
* * * *
What are the rules for using “a”
and “an” before words beginning
with “h”?
Before an aspirated “h,” as in
“Hibernianism,” the article “a”
should be used. “A” is used when
the next word begins with a conson-
ant sound; “an” when it begins
with a vowel or silent “h.” Though
never so feebly aspirated, “h” has
something of a consonant sound,
and the article in this case ought
to conform to the general principle,
as in “a historic introduction has
generally a happy effect to arouse
attention.” To be correct one
should say: an island, a High-
lander; an oysterman, a boister;
a hotel, an onion; a herb, an heir;
a house, an owl. Some people do
not aspirate the “h” in “herb”;
when the “h” is not aspirated the
word takes the article “an,” not
“a.”
* * * *
How to blue steel ?
The outfit consists of a cast-iron
kettle, a tank for boiling water, a
tank for oil (aquiline) and a per-
forated basket. A mixture is made-
up of nine parts saltpetre and one
part of pyrolusite by weight. . This
is melted, the required temperature
being obtained when it begins to
boil and when a pinch of sawdust
thrown in bursts into flame on
touching the surface. The tempera-
ture must remain constant. The
basket containing the article is now
lowered into the solution and left
there for three minutes, then lifted
out and the surplus solution
allowed to drain-off. It is then
dipped in hot water, drained and
placed in oil, and taken out as
quickly as possible and again
allowed to drain. Surface of the
metal must be clean and free from
rust before treating.
* * * *
How are coral-islands formed ?
Coral formations, including
islands, reefs and atolls, are the
result of the activities of myriads
of tiny marine organisms known as
polyps with calcareous (chalk-like)
skeletons which remain after the
decomposition of the softer por-
tions. These organisms in their
early or larval form float about in
large quantities in the ocean; if
they happen to drift, under the
influence of currents of a tempera-
ture suitable to their continued exist-
ence, on to firm rock, or a beach
protected from disturbances, they
may attach themselves and in time,
by multiplying and dying, form new
reefs. In this way the coral fringes
abound some islands have been
formed; sometimes they may be
half a mile wide, and consist for
the most part of dead reef-rock
(millions of the skeletons firmly
attached together in a plantlike for-
mation) with the living reef-builders
often busy on the seaward edge.
Barrier-reefs are like fringes,
except that they are separated
from the shore by lagoon-water of
varying widths. They consist largely
of broad sea-level flats of coral with
a growing face on the seaward
edge ; because the landward edge
usually is inorganic, it is presumed
that these barrier-reefs originally
were “fringes” on the coast-line,
but that the coast itself has sub-
sided below water, leaving the
coral-reef in position, and causing
a new coast-line farther back. This
coast-line often has a “fringe” of
coral of lkter origin than the reef.
The lagoons generally are not
very wide, but an enormous example
of barrier-reef formation is the
Great Barrier Reef off n.-e. Aus-
tralia—9oo miles long (though
broken by channels) with a lagoon
varying from 20 to 70 miles wide.
Atolls are like barrier-reefs around
islands in every way, except that no
island remains within, presumed to
be due to subsidence of the islands
which originally existed. An atoll
thus is an irregular circle or oval
of reef.
* * * *
Recipe for sweet gherkin pickles ?
Choose well-grown but young
gherkins and wipe them with a damp
cloth. If they are wanted soft they
should be gently simmered, with just
enough water to cover, until they can
be pierced with a knitting-needle,
drained and packed into jars. If
wanted hard, as when raw, drop
them into boiling water, withdraw
almost immediately, drain slightly
and pack into bottles which have
been heated in the oven. Have
ready a hot pickle mixture made
from enough vinegar to cover all
the gherkins in the jars, salted to
taste, with one teaspoon of sugar
to every pint of vinegar and a
dessertspoonful of allspice, a few
blades of mace and one or two
cloves to each quart. Tie the loose,
dry articles in a muslin bag and
drop into the vinegar; bring to the
boil and keep very hot for about
20mins., then pour over the
gherkins, allow to become cold and
screw-down. More sugar may be
added if wanted very sweet. Addi-
tion of a few birds’-eye chillies to
every jar improves the appearance
and gives a peppery flavor if cooked
in with the vinegar. There are many
recipes to suit different tastes.
• * * *
When did World Weir I actually
end—l9lB or 1919 ?
Actual fighting in World War 1
ceased on Nov. 11, 1918 —Armis-
tice Day. However, the Treaty of
Versailles (treaty of peace signed by
the representatives of the Allied and
Associated Powers and the repre-
sentatives of Germany) was not
signed until June 28, 1919, and was
not officially brought into force
until the exchange of ratifications
on Jan. 10, 1920.
* * * *
Details of the Dean murder case ?
In March, 1895, George Dean, a
young Sydney Harbor ferrymaster,
was charged with administering
poison to his wife with intent to
murder, found guilty and sentenced
to death —a sentence later com-
muted to life-imprisonment. Strong
public agitation against the verdict
led to the appointment of a royal
commission, which reversed the
decision and freed Dean, who was
granted a free pardon A little later
a sensation was caused when Julian
Salomon stated in the House that
R. D. Meagher, Dean’s counsel, had
informed him that Dean had
admitted his guilt to him (Meagher).
Both Meagher and Dean denied this,
the latter making a statutory declara-
tion to this effect. Later Meagher
resigned his seat in the State
House. Crick, Meagher and Dean
were charged with conspiracy, and
the last with perjury also; Crick
was acquitted, Meagher found
guilty and sentenced, but dis-
charged shortly afterwards, and
Dean, who had withdrawn his con-
fession, sentenced to 14 years’


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G. 8.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin," to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year— £2 Bs.; \ year— £l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight— Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington. N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year— 19s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply •whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
imprisonment. In after years
Meagher became Lord Mayor of
Sydney, and later Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly.
* * * *
Difference between a battleship,
a cruiser and a destroyer ?
They differ in size, speed,
offensive and defensive armament.
“Battleship” is the name applied
by naval experts only to the heaviest
ships in the fleet, and are the result
of designing to obtain maximum
armament, both offensive and
defensive, giving great striking-
power and high protection against
counter-attack. This makes them
heavy ; speed is therefore
reduced.
A cruiser, though faster than
a battleship, does not entirely
sacrifice armament to speed, and
is still a well-armed ship. Its
special function is to guard sea-
routes and to act as an advance-
guard to the battle-fleet. The
typical modern cruiser is of
10,000 tons (or less), displacement,
carries six-inch guns and torpedoes
and travels at around 32 knots.
The original full name of the
destroyer was “Torpedo-boat
destroyer,” as that was the pur-
pose for which it was first designed.
Its uses were later extended, since
it proved to have definite advan-
tages, such as speed and manoeuvra-
bility. Their chief duties are to
act as scouts and screens for the
larger warships. Displacement
varies, but normally is between
1000 and 2000 tons, heaviest guns
of 4.7-inch calibre and speed
around 37 knots.
Brief Answers
A.H.W.: You’re probably think-
ing of fistulous withers. This condi-
tion is characterised by an inflam-
mation in the saddle region, which
is extremely sensitive to the touch.
lr_ more advanced cases pus is dis-
charged from the affected area. If
there’s hot enough drainage thfe
pus may seep between the muscles
and could penetrate into the chest
cavity, possibly resulting in septi-
caemia. Fistulous withers is always
a serious condition, calling for
ajdvice and treatment by a vet.
Early cases (where, pus has not
formed) can be treated by removing
the saddle, resting the horse and
tieating the affected area with cold
applications— i.e., Burrow solution
or a 2 per cent, lead-acetate solu-
tion. This should be applied daily
for three to four days, followed by
massaging with a stimulating oint-
ment such as 10 per cent, iodine
ointment. In all but mild cases
surgical treatment is required....
E. 0.: Write to the Genealogical
Society, Lanark House, Phillip
Street, Sydney G.L.: Canary is
suffering from heat and probably
from approaching moult. Give
ample shade, keep out of draughts
and supply a shallow bath every
day. The cage should have a roof
of dark material (not of metal) so
that the bird can please itself
whether it sleeps or sunbathes....
D.W.: In a small saucepan place
one teacup of water. Blend in a
cup three level dessertspoons flour
in a little water; when the other
water is brought to the boil, stir
in the flour end smooth it. Boil
for a few minutes. Add one tea-
spoon powdered alum, as well as
i-i teaspoon oil of cloves as a
preservative. Keeps indefinitely,
Use more or less flour according to
desired thickness... .D.W.M.:
“Ships that pass in the night, and
speak to each other in passing”—
from Longfellow’s The Theologian’s
Tale.... Mrs. J.L.: (1) You don’t
have to join any such association,
(2) Not necessary to consult a
solicitor, though it would probably
be in your best interest to do so.
(3) No need to register the nom-de-
plume. (4) Write Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney A. 8.: (1) Write Aus-
tralasian Pioneers Club, 173 Phillip
Street, Sydney. (2) Glad you like
“Time Means Tucker” L.S.:
No, she is still living. You’re
probably thinking of authoress
Ethel Turner ( Seven Little Aus-
tralians), who died on April 8, 1958.
. ...H.S.: In the examples cited
the correct word undoubtedly is
“would” (“Would you like to go?”)
In a first-person conditional state-
ment (“I should like to know”),
“should” would be correct....
M.J.: The eggs of cockroaches are
usually laid in a warm, moist place.
The young which hatch are similar
in appearance to the adults, but are
smaller and have no wings. They
take refuge in cracks and crevices
and remain hidden during the
day, emerging at night-time to seek
food.
THE HOLLIDAYS'
BY MIDDY
“Where do I go on my holidays? Well, last year I spent them building a fowl-house in my backyard at Daceyville!"
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
R.T.: Better than the last one;
concentrate on dialogue—make it
crisper and more characteristic....
K.L.: There were points, but it’s
all terribly long-winded... .1.M.:
Maybe the garden-hose does “spray
silver-dancing streams” on the
garden, but it’s a bit wet....C.H.:
Will you please come and remove
the drinking cabbie? The Religious
Editor is becoming dangerously
annoyed... .J.G.: It slides along
like a table on rusty casters....
T.N.8.: Try polishing the last
stanza... .F.D.: Weak ending....
S.H.: Weil, give it an Australian
setting... .L.P.: But they wouldn’t
talk like that in real life... .W.K.:
Stripped your hero of his six-guns
and sent him off in the general
direction of Texas, U.S.A
G.G.: Reads like a chocolate-box
illustration: plenty of stereotyped
color.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The cry of “Woodman, spare that
tree! ” went up again in Sydney this week
as palm-trees bit the dust in Macquarie
Street and the news went around that
five of the Moreton Bay fig-trees in the
Domain were to be sacrificed to the new
Expressway. In the same cause a new
temporary road is being cut through
some of the Domain’s playing-area, so
there is some distress among those who
realise the value to our city of greenness
and open space.
Yet this old town still holds its
unexpected enchantments. A very wet
afternoon during the week, for instance,
drew one’s footsteps to the Museum,
where colored educational-films enter-
tained those kiddies who had not yet
gone back to school, and an impulse led
one, rain-booted, -coated and -hatted, into
the dripping and deserted Hyde Park.
Here the massed trees swallowed-up
the rain, and underfoot the grass was
soft and silent. Misty vistas of distant
towers were glimpsed from time to time,
and at the meeting-point of the long
avenue the Archibald Fountain flung
sprays of wind-blown water round, con-
tending with the rain. Then across the
green spaces came the sound of someone
singing. It was a woman’s voice, melli-
fluous and strong, and it seemed so
strange in the deserted, rain-drenched
park that one could not refrain from
seeking its source. It drew one on to
a large stone bird-bath in a circle of trees,
spreading gum and cape-chestnut. Water
overflowed from the bowl and a stone
dolphin rose dripping from its centre,
while from the trees the voice carolled
on, “I thought I heard a magpie sing!”
Of course it was not a magic voice, just
a microphone high in the trees, but in
that quiet grove in the heart of a busy
city, it really had the touch of magic.
ft ft ft -
Only a few of the V.I.P. visitors lacked
family-roots deep in Australian history
when the Women’s Pioneer Society of
Australia (not to be outdone by the all-
male Australasian Pioneers’ Club) cele-
brated Australia Day with cocktails and
speeches on January 27. For the women’s
organisation, like the men’s, has a
membership qualification which insists
on an ancestry harking as far back as
possible to 1770 and all that. Almost
everyone present had an historical ring
to his or her name, and included the
Rev. the Dean of Sydney and Mrs. Pitt,
Mr. Justice and Mrs. J. A. Ferguson,
Admiral and Mrs. Buchanan, Rev. O. B.
McCarthy, Mrs. Wentworth Grayson,
Mr. and Mrs. M. H. Ellis, Mr. and Mrs.
G. Blaxland, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph King
and Mrs. R. Vallack. The society’s new
secretary, Mrs. Abercrombie, met many
members for the first time.
Actress Moira Lister opens her stage
presentation of the world’s great love-
stories with a gala-preview on February
5 in aid of the Royal Blind Society.
South African by birth, Miss Lister has
made her name on the English stage, has
played leading Shakspearian roles at
Stratford and with Sir John Gielgud, has
appeared with Noel Coward in “Present
Laughter” and with Peter Ustinov in “The
Love of Four Colonels.” She has starred
opposite Tyrone Power in films and is one
of the B.B.C.’s most popular TV and
radio personalities. Now, following in the
footsteps of Ruth Draper and Emlyn
Williams, she sustains unassisted two full
hours of entertainment and brings a
sensitive account of the world’s great
storytellers to the world of theatre. Her
season at the Anzac Hall Auditorium will
be of four weeks’ duration.
Miss Lister is in private life the
Viscomtesse d’Ortez. Her husband, who
will join her in Australia, produces
champagne on his estate in France, and
their 4½-year-old daughter Chantal (who
made her debut on the stage at the age of
15 months) joins with her mother in
making records which tell the stories
around nursery-rhymes. Miss Lister’s
interests are wide, but most of all she
loves auction-sales and interior-
decorating, her most successful “buy”
being a delightful pale-green French
piano decorated with Cupids which once
belonged to actress Fannie Ward. Her
photo is by Aztec Services ( Melb .).
The three ladies in white who attracted
attention at the opening night of “For
Amusement Only” were Mrs. Buchanan
(the Admiral’s wife), actress Moira Lister
and Mrs. Hunter-Kerr. Sitting in the
prompt-box to the right-hand side of the
theatre, they were squired by Mr. Hunter-
Kerr. Also in white was Mrs. Tom
Bateman, celebrating with her husband,
Dr. Bateman, their 18th wedding-
anniversary. Earlier in the evening Mrs.
Bateman had been present at the preview
of the prize-winning hats for 1959, as she
had been one of the judges. Noted that
Kathy Murrell, daughter of another of
the judges, Mrs. Bill Murrell, was one
of the chief models at the show, which
was held at the Australia.
it it ft
The cast of “For Amusement Only”
made a gay assembly at the cocktail-
party given for them in the foyer of the
Theatre Royal during the week. Margo
Lee, in a black trapeze-line dress, was
being welcomed home by husband Frank
Brooks after her nine-weeks’ stay in
Melbourne (he had organised an “extra-
special” dinner for her and neither of
them would touch a savory). Tikky
Taylor, in a white trapeze-line dress
looked cool and sparkling, and said that,
although they had loved their run in
Melbourne, the strain of undergoing 21
changes of costume with the temperature
at 108 deg. had been rather trying. Toni
Lamond and her husband Frank Sheldon
brought their three-year-old son Tony
along looking very ivy-league in his
check jacket and bow-tie, and Peter
Myers, author of the show’s amusing
sketches, was present with his wife,
formerly a member of the Ballet Ram-
bert. “This is my first visit to Australia,”
he said, “but I like it here. I’m going
to stay a while.”
ft it it
In the true tradition of Scottish hos-
pitality the Clan MacLeod held open-
house for all the Campbells on Monday
night, so that they could meet their Chief,
the Duke of Argyll and his Duchess. As
it was also the 81st birthday of their
own Chief, Dame Flora MacLeod, there
was a special toast in her honor. Guests
included Senator and Mrs. A. Reid, Mr.
and Mrs. Fred Daniel!, Dr. and Mrs.
Malcolm Mackay (Scots Church), Mr.
and Mrs. David Cousins (Highland
Society), Mr. and Mrs. Ken Watson
(Chisholm Clan) and Mr. L. McNeill.
Between 200 and 300 Scots attended and
were received by Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
MacLeod and Mr. and Mrs. Ken
MacLeod.
ft ft ft .
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Bunning took a
Sunday night off to go to the Ensemble
Theatre’s new production, “Orpheus
Arising,” by Tennessee Williams. The
show is powerful though rather shat-
tering as “theatre in the round,” and
many of the audience who had provided
themselves with sweets didn’t feel it was
quite the right thing to consume them
during such a show. Rather like fiddling
while Rome burned. However, Tennessee
Williams is undoubtedly an outstanding
writer of this age, and this type of per-
formance is a valuable contribution to
our knowledge of modern drama.
ft ft ft
The Red Cross Library Service
urgently needs magazines, preferably of
interest to men. Overseas and travel pub-
lications are the most popular with


hospital-patients, so clear out the cup-
boards and the bookshelves and send the
magazines along to Red Cross, 27 Jami-
son Street, Sydney. Those who cannot
deliver the magazines can ring BO 542
and arrangements will be made for col-
lections, but this should only be a last
resort, as the Red Cross Transport Ser-
vice is always very busy, and of course
deliveries of blood and visits to hospitals
must come first.
MELBOURNE
Wearing a lime-green silk-shantung
frock and a wreath of tabac-brown-and-
beige straw-leaves, the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. F. W. Thomas, helped her husband
receive guests at a late-afternoon recep-
tion given at the Town Hall to farewell
the Chiefs-of-Staff of the Armed Services,
who are leaving to make their homes in
Canberra. The Chief of the Air Staff,
Air-Marshal Sir Frederick Scherger,
made a brief and amusing speech, and he
was followed by the Chief of the General
Staff, Lieut.-General Sir Ragnar Garrett,
and Rear-Admiral G. C. Clark (who
represented Vice-Admiral Sir Roy
Dowling.
Lady Scherger wore with her frock of
printed cotton in tones of blue-grey,
black, white and yellow a blue flower-
curvette. Lady Herring’s choice was a
frock of silk printed in shades of muted
pinks and burgundy and a flower-wreath
in the same shades. Mrs, Murray
Porter teamed a China-blue silk frock
coin-spotted in white and a wig-cap of
white petals. Lady Bruche’s frock was
of black pleated chiffon and lace, her
flower-hat pastel-blue.
Pink and white flowers decorated
Wesley Church for the wedding of
Vivienne Edith, elder daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. E. E. Williams, of East Mal-
vern, with Kenneth Henry, younger son
of Mrs. F. Clarke, of Hendon Way,
London, and the late Mr. H. Clarke.
The bride’s ballerina-frock of white nylon
had an applique of silver roses ; the fitted
bodice had three-quarter sleeves, and a
wreath of white roses held her three-
tiered tulle veil. She carried an ivory
Bible and a trail of white roses. The
ballerina-frock worn by bridesmaid Lois
Stevenson was flecked with grey blossom
and highlighted with a peacock-blue
sash. A matching-blue veil was worn
on her hair, and she carried a trail of
cerise and white flowers. Robert Calwell
was best man. Reception was held in
the private dining-room of the uni-
versity’s Union House.
☆ ☆ ☆
Yet another heat-wave coincided with
another first-night, this time at the
Comedy Theatre, where “Summer of the
Seventeenth Doll” opened for a short
season. Noted among the audience were
Mrs. Graham Nathan, wearing a sheath-
frock of deep-cream guipure-lace which
sparkled with tiny rhinestones; Mrs.
Keith Hattam, in a bouffant short frock
of white poult printed in a pink rambler-
rose design ; Jennifer Barret, her white
frock printed in a bright-blue leaf-
pattern ; Mrs. Ross Liebman, cool and
attractive in a short white pique frock
patterned in cornflowers ; Lady Clarke,
whose white frock was floral-printed;
Googie Withers, looking charming in a
short frock of orchid-pink poult.
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson chose a frock
and stole in powder-blue guipure-lace.
Lady Grimwade’s ensemble was in
silver-grey. Mrs. John Teague’s teal-
blue guipure-lace sheath-frock had a
back-panel of matching taffeta falling
from the back of the bodice and caught
under at the hem of the skirt. Mrs.
John Rowntree wore a frock of white
re-embroidered lace. Mrs. Harold
Nathan chose a short full frock and
stole of peacock-green taffeta. Ethel
Blake’s taffetas were black.
Kay Elizabeth Opie, eldest daughter of
Mrs. J. Gent, of Mr. Lawley ( W.A. ), and
the late Mr. H. Opie, will marry Noel,
youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. Saul
Aarons, of Malvern, in the chapel of
Noel’s old school, Wesley College, on
March 14. The reception, which will
follow the morning ceremony, will be at
the home of Noel’s parents. Kay’s sister
Yvonne will be her bridesmaid. Kay, who
is tall and slim, is wearing a' beautiful
ruby-and-diamond ring. Noel, a young
businessman, is keenly interested in speed-
boats. John Warlow photo.
In celebration of the forthcoming
marriage of Margaret Mactier, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Mactier, of Merri
Ponds, Tatura, to Maurice O’Callaghan,
younger son of Mr. and Mrs. J.
O’Callaghan, of Shepparton, a dinner-
party was given at the Hotel London by
her bridesmaids, Dorothy Stewart and
Margaret Maxwell. The bride-to-be,
Dorothy, and three of the guests —Alison
Harper (Mansfield), Roberta Fleming and
Marjorie McDonald (Nagambie)—did
their nursing-training together at the
Mooroopna Hospital. Other guests at the
party were Marjorie Bond and Diana
Ward.
☆ ☆ ☆
Hundreds attended the Return to
Manyung party, which was held at the
Administrative Staff College, Mt. Eliza,
by members of the Spring Street L.-C.P.
auxiliary of Yooralla Crippled Children’s
Appeal. The planned barbecue had to
be abandoned owing to the ban on open
fires, but cooks coped admirably by using
the kitchen of the college. Among attrac-
tions were a parade by Parliamentarians
in old-fashioned swim-suits; Sabrina
arriving on the lawn in a helicopter ; and
a parade of French poodles dressed-up in
party-clothes. Mrs. Henry Bolte and her
committee will have a nice cheque to
hand over to the appeal as a result of
the hard work which made the night so
successful.
☆ ☆ ☆
The night before TV- and stage-star
Evie Hayes flew-off to Surfers’ Paradise
for a holiday she hostessed a barbecue-
party in honor of Shirk Conway, here
to star in “Auntie Marne.” Evie was
returning a compliment—when she
returned to New York after her success-
ful tour of “Annie Get Your Gun” it
was Shirl who gave a welcome-home
barbecue-party for her. The friendship
between Evie and Shirl has lasted more
than 20 years. Fred and Inez Bond
lent Evie their historic 106-year-old
property at Lower Plenty for the party,
and assisted Evie in entertaining the
guests. So that guests would not be
troubled by mosquitoes a helicopter
sprayed the area during the day.
☆ it ☆
At Stanmark, East St. Kilda, where the
reception-rooms were decorated with the
Australian and Thai flags, 175 guests
attended a party to celebrate the 367th
anniversary of the establishment of the
Royal Thai Army. They were received
by the Thai military attache, Colonel
Prapat Kuvanonda, and Madame Kuva-
nonda, the Thai consul, Mr. H. I. Fader,
and Mrs. Fader (her teal-blue guipure-
lace sheath-frock had a waterfall-drape
of matching taffeta at the back of the
skirt), and the Thai Ambassador, Mai
Konthi Suphamongkhon, and his wife.
Among the guests were Sir John and
Lady Teasdale; Mr. and Mrs. W. W.
Kiilough, (her royal-blue and emerald-
green printed taffeta frock was worn with
a pixie-hat in matching chiffons), Mr.
and Mrs. W. K. Burnside, (she wearing a
deep-lime-green guipure-lace frock and a
misty-green chiffon toque), Mr. and Mrs.
L. J. Dooling ; Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Silk,
(the latter’s frock of white linen having a
white guipure-lace yoke); Sir John and
Lady McCauley ; Dr. and Mrs. R. Shatin,
(her frock and full-length coat of gold
corded-silk); U.S. Air Force Attache
Col. John Hussey and Mrs. Hussey ; U.S.
Naval Attache Capt. Clarence White and
Mrs. White ; Sir Frank and Lady Selleck ;
Sir Albert and Lady Coates ; Canada’s
Commercial Secretary A. T. Grant Major
and Mrs. Major; and Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Menzies.


a report on a mission-station, “Kalum-
buru.”
Nevertheless, there is a certain
splendor suggested by the novels being
there to be raided; and then the roll
of West Australia’s genuine short-story
writers is most impressive; Katherine
Susannah Prichard’s famous “The
Cooboo,” J. K. Ewers’s “Carew’s
Place,” M. L. Skinner’s posthumous
“The Witch of Wellaway” (the story of
the woman who cursed the little boy
who killed her parrot, which was sent
to “The Bulletin” by Miss Skinner’s
executors), Lyndal Hadow’s picture of
the hard life of the Italian girl who
married the Italian potato-farmer (not
quite her best), Gavin Casey’s “Short-
shift Saturday,” as good as when it
went near to setting the Harbor afire on
its first appearance in this paper . . .
But, taking into consideration that
an anthology’s best service is not to
proclaim old reputations but to estab-
lish new ones, then the most pleasing
things in this one are “Kedi,” by H. H.
Wilson, much superior to the story for
which she won a Sydney Journalist
Club prize last year, and “Dingo
Pups,” first printed here, by Donald
R. Stuart. Kedi is a girl of mixed
blood who serves in the airport-
restaurant of a quiet coastal resort and
bewitches rich passengers into stop-
ping-off with the excuse of developing
the resort with huge architectural and
industrial projects which, strangely
enough, come to nothing. “Dingo
Pups” is a few pages on the way of
some aborigines with dingo-scalps,
and has that rarest of things, a really
sound wow-ending.
And so, to end with another of
Professor Murdoch’s extracts from the
Ode-competition:—
.... give to them the honor,
For that they well deserve,
And do your best endeavor
To hand on the preserve.
Two Views of China
If listening to Chinese Women
Speak, by Dymphna Cusack (Angus
and Robertson) leaves one wondering
whether, in addition to other virtues,
Communism has conferred upon
Chinese women that of not saying
everything, this doubt will be confirmed
by .... But Not Conquered, edited by
Rev. Bernard Smith (Browne and
Nolan), in which six Irish Roman
Catholic priests recount the circum-
stances leading-up to their expulsion
from China around 1953-54.
During an 18-months’ visit Miss
Cusack travelled China from Harbin
in the north to Canton in the south,
and could not have done so without
the Communist Government’s bless-
ing; each of her 32 chapters is an
interviewing autobiography of one
or more representative Chinese women;
early in each interview, like a recurring
chime of bells, comes some such phrase
as “Since liberation,” or “Then every-
thing changed.” Miss Cusack coaxes
their confidences with something of
the critical appraisal of a teenager
interviewing Sinatra; the approving
precision of her descriptions of their
clothing is worthy of a Sydney social
editress; her colorful impressions of
their faces and gestures are those of
an adoring mother—and yet, and
maybe because of this, the ear of any-
one used to interviewing for the press
will notice a certain constraint; the
anxiety of little Mrs. Lou, for instance,
“A Model Wife for a Model Worker,”
not to say anything that would get
such a model wife into trouble; her
present, to a stranger, of pieces of
embroidery that must have meant.a lot
to her; the excess of mutual protesta-
tions after the interview: “I want to
tell you I shall never forget today . . .”
One turns from these pictures of
young women who now have homes
where before they could have only
had hovels; of the 4ft. lOin. girl, a
university graduate, who is in charge
of a blast-furnace at Anshan (“86,000
workers in the United Steelworks”); of
the opera-star who resisted politics
until her troupe took part in the All-
China Theatrical Festival and then
became a deputy to the National
People’s Congress (“the highest honor
of all”); of the textile-worker in
Shanghai who is no longer in danger
of being seduced and discarded by the
brutal foreman; of the cosmopolitan
ex-lady-in-waiting to the Empress
Dowager, who is allowed, and even
encouraged, to live on in rich sim-
plicity with her husband the General—
one turns from these pictures of joyful
Chinese women on the march to the
testimony of Rev. Luke'M. O’Reilly:
“Oh, Sen Fu,” he cried out, “we
are finished. Today my sister-in-
law went to the magistrate for a
divorce. She said her husband, my
elder brother, has been aiding and
abetting bandits, and that he took
his orders from y0u....”
or to his story of the Chinese Catholic
girl, Shay Yung, who went to a
training-course at a women’s college,
where the girls screamed at her in the
dormitory at night: “There is no God;
the idea of God is an Imperialistic
superstition”; or to Rev. Edward
Mac Elroy’s story of Elizabeth, of the
Legion of Mary, who they thought too
simple to answer police-questions, but
who opposed the subtlety and bullying
of her Chinese inquisitors with the
shrewd genius of Christ answering his
accusers; or to the same priest’s story
of the 20-year-old daughter whose
father was “tied to a pole on the stage
with his feet well off the ground” while
she “accused him of every crime and
evil she could think of,” demanded
the death-penalty and saw his brains
blown out.
Not that the Chinese haven’t got a
lot to thank their Communist Gov-
ernment for—and Rev. Mac Elroy, and
not Miss Cusack, bears the testimony:
good order restored, banditry sup-
pressed, trains and buses on time, train-
crews courteous and efficient, beggars
removed, overcharging pedicab coolies
overawed, water and light services
more efficient, prostitutes off the streets,
opium-smoking and gambling “prac-
tically ceased,” justice (to criminals)
evenly and competently administered,
hooligans suppressed, soldiers well
behaved, public officials dutiful....
To this ground-bass Miss Cusack
supplies an ecstatic series of melodies;
the dreadful, hopeless lives of prosti-
tutes in the bad old days; their new
lives, as factory-workers, with husbands
and children; the vast increase in
literacy for women; their deliverance
from concubinage; their new standing
as individuals, and as active politicians
—but of all these interviews, perhaps
none is so moving as that with Lily-
foot, the tiny woman whose feet had
been bound at childhood; the part
where she takes off her sock and slipper
is Miss Cusack’s best effort, although
foot-bindery was well on its way out
long before the Communists inter-
vened.
But all this new order is no final
consolation to the Rev: MacElroy:—
Order, of course, is a good thing,
but there are few places as orderly
as a prison.
And taking this as his text, each
contributor to the book discusses
Chinese Communist technique, especi-
ally as it concerns political prisoners,
in the extortion of confessions from
bound men after long hours of third-
degree; the setting-up of the “Reformed
National Catholic Patriotic Church” on
the theory that religion can be “cured”
like smallpox by “administering a
small, controlled dose of Communist
religion”; and Rev. Patrick Ronan’s
invention of “jail beads,” a rosary
made in prison with beads of hardened
bread, a crucifix of dovetailed chop-
sticks, a Christ of shoeleather, and all
threaded on an old string pulled from
a quilt.
The priests write very well, present-
ing a hard, clear picture curiously at
variance with the mist, as of incense,
of Miss Cusack’s style; nevertheless,
the reader cannot but be interested by
the color and variety of her portraits
of ladies whom modern history has
rendered important while it has limited
them to few or no outside historians.


COAST TO COAST 1957-1958
Selected by Dal Stivens
“Poetry and punch” were used as a basis of selection in this latest volume of the best!
Australian short stories. Many distinguished authors are included, among them Judith
Wright, E. O. Scblunke and Katharine Susannah Prichard, and there is a wide variety of
subject and style. The editor himself is a short-story writer and novelist of established
reputation. 21/- (post 9d.)
Available from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
TO THE
ISLANDS
RANDOLPH STOW
GENIUS DOWN UNDER was how The Observer (London) headed its
enthusiastic review covering this novel and Patrick White’s “The Aunt’s Story.”
“A fine eye for landscape . . . magical precision . . . significant . . . poetic
accuracy ... a rich talent ... a narrative gift ... a real novelist,’'’
JOHN DAVENPORT goes on, ending with, ‘‘it is of course absurd to
attempt to deal with a work of this quality in a few words.”
Here then is a great Australian novel of the Aborigines, the
Mission Stations and a noble quest by a brilliant Australian author.
BOOK SOCIETY RECOMMENDATION
17s.
MACDONALD
Australian Agents: Ponsford, Newman and Benson Ltd.
Available at all Booksellers
Reviewed Briefly
Prisoner in the Bar: Margaret
Reynolds (Phoenix). Mrs. Reynolds
and her husband kept a pub in the
East End of London. She has written
an amusing book about it, full of beer.
Illustrated by James Boswell.
* * * *
Dylan Thomas’s Under Milk Wood
has been published in a useful acting-
edition by Dent. Full stage-directions
are included and there are a preface
and musical settings by Daniel Jones.
* * * *
Collected Poems and Epigrams:
George Rostrevor Hamilton (Heine-
mann). At 70, Sir George, having
retired from the civil service, has
collected and selected this from his
sixteen books of verse. It is a quiet
talent, never straining its Georgian
frame; so late a memory as “Mr. Long”
(1947) might have been written before
Rupert Brooke, yet it is a pleasant
portrait, while the freer and more
modem treatments, such as “Karlov,”
a meditation on a murdered chief-of-
police, are well-expressed and conver-
sational, but more with the effect of
prose. His epigrams (most of those
which are translations fall with that
dull plop one expects of translated
epigrams) are also on the quiet side;
but one in general is worth quoting:—
Since manners make the man, why
then
You are the very best of men,
And since this proves you are the
best,
Come, we must use some other test.
* * * *
The Faber Book of English Verse;
edited by John Hayward. This interest-
ing collection, running to 480 pages,
was originally planned as a Faber
anthology, but was taken-over as “The
Penguin Book of English Verse.” The
chief advantages of its present re-
publication as a Faber book are more
solid binding and better paper. It
begins with Wyatt, includes over 150
writers, and ends with Dylan Thomas.
It includes several Americans —Whit-
man, Edward Arlington Robinson,
Emily Dickinson, Wallace Stevens and
others —but no Australians, New
Zealanders or South Africans.
* * * *
Selected Letters of Thomas Wolfe:
edited by Elizabeth Nowell (Heine-
mann). It seems characteristic of the
author of “Look Homeward, Angel”
that the American edition of his letters
ran to 800 pages; the total having been
reduced here to 326. Wolfe had to
put himself down on paper, and he
couldn’t stop writing. The letters,
dealing with love-affairs, literary
friendships and quarrels, the making
of his books and the state of America
and the universe, with observations on
a variety of authors from Scott Fitz-
gerald to James Joyce, have the same
sensitivity, the same intensity and over-
intensity as his novels.
* * * *
/
Recent additions to the invaluable
Faber Gallery series include Braque,
edited by Patrick Heron, and Paintings
of the Deccan, edited by Douglas
Barrett.
* * * *
A Friend in Power: Carlos Baker
(Faber). To help them shop about for
a new president, the trustees of an ivy-
league university in the U.S. appoint
an advisory committee of senior pro-
fessors, most of whom would like to
be “it.” The course of the resultant
lobbying runs right through the life of
the campus, unscreening the personal
involvements of most of the staff.
There is a fair bit of speculation about
power, and who should have it, and
how to use it. It is all very earnest and
sensible, but unfortunately its plot
invites comparison with C. P. Snow’s
“The Masters,” which it cannot
altogether stand.
* * * *
Ships in Rough Water: J. L. Kent
(Nelson). It is not often that the trained
reviewer strikes a book so expert that
he dare not even pretend to review it.
But whether Mr. Kent is right or wrong
in his assertions that “The time taken
for a water-surface particle to reach
its maximum velocity from still water
... .would be the equal to the fetch
F, divided by the group velocity, i.e.,
one-half the wave speed,” therefore
“2S/kW=2F/U,” one really could not
say. The author is a naval architect
of international reputation, and his
book “describes the behavior of ships
in rough water and explains how ship-
design is adapted to it.”


m
w$
mma
m.
: :
• :
mm
m
■
%
<
*
■it*
fg I
s> 1
>iSgSi
, ,?■•> i ' t , N% ' >
' 5 ' % > '' '
¥*;*¥
iiiiiili
•••
■■ }:^;A
JS| ‘ ' - ■ ;
y •$
'■■ ■ •••:
I i 1
: ; : ::
II
You wouldn’t expect to get into
or out of—a situation like this!
Yet, the rough, sharp-edged, abrasive
stones and metal you see here are no
strangers to your tyres. To meet
every type of road condition, you
need the strongest, safest tyres you
can get. You need Goodyear tyres!
For only Goodyear tyres have miracle
3-T cord the strongest tyre cord
in the world. Wherever you go, you
can be sure Goodyear tyres can
take it!
ih
HERE’S WHY YOU ARE SAFER ON 3-T TYRES
In strength lies safety and Goodyear 3-T cord is the
strongest tyre cord in the world! The chance of bruise
breaks and consequent blowouts is materially reduced.
Tyre heat greatest cause of premature tyre failure
is reduced to a minimum by 3-T cord.
HERE’S WHY YOU GET MORE MILES FROM 3-T TYRES
The extra strength of 3-T cord means Goodyear tyres
meet modern highway conditions better give
thousands of extra miles. The stronger body carries a
tougher tread for more original miles allows more
retreads.
Since the extra value, extra safety of Goodyear 3-T
Tyres cost no more to buy . . . insist on Goodyear!
M 0998
GOOD
* *
f «ED
TYR
