

The Bulletin
"Kanaka Fashion” —page w
Wednesday, July 29, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"They won't get me—I'll build my own swimming-pool! "


NORTH AUSTRALIAN
MONTHLY
Subscribe to this 56-page magazine (est. 1954)
with Outback atmosphere—read about Nth.
Qld., N.T., and Kimberleys. Informative
articles, good fiction. 30/- p.a. post free from:
North Australian Monthly, P.O. Box 116,
Darwin, N.T,
INTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
„ service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
ITALIAN STORIES
In an introduction to his anthology
of Italian Stories of Today (Faber),
John Lehmann points out that the
Italian writer suffers from two serious
market - restrictions widespread
illiteracy at home and the virtual
absence of an Italian-language market
abroad.
The short-story writer is particularly
handicapped: the chief market for
serious stories is in the literary supple-
ments of a few newspapers, and this
imposes severe restrictions on length,
theme and method. It is not surprising,
then, that most Italian writers don’t
bother much with the short-story, pre-
ferring to chase their only chance of
independence —to crack the inter-
national market with a translated
novel.
These facts show clearly in Leh-
mann’s anthology. None of the twelve
writers represented adds anything to
the form; few of them could stand com-
parison with such practitioners as
Angus Wilson, J. D. Salinger or Frank
O’Connor; only two of them —Alberto
Moravia and Ignazio Silone—are at
all well known outside Italy (nothing
from Carlo Levi, Riccardo Bacchelfi
or Vasco Pratolini); and the themes
treated can be narrowed down, roughly,
to two, which are seldom wholly
separated: the effects of Fascism and
war on society, and a feeling for the
texture and requirements of social
milieu.
Yet, within these severe limits, there
are plenty of good stories; for the
Italian writer has had one big advant-
age: he has seen important historical
events, and these, at any rate in the
short-run, can lend weight to even the
slightest themes.
The best of the stories, then, relate
chiefly to recent history—Alberto
Moravia’s wonderfully atmospheric
study of a minor Fascist’s death on a
picnic with his calculating wife on a
gusty beach strewn with barbed-wire
and old German mines; Giorgio
Bassani’s lengthy tragicomedy about a
deranged Jew returning to his home-
town from a concentration-camp when
the townspeople are trying to adjust
their loyalties to post-war “condi-
tions”; Vitaliano Brancati’s artlessly
ironic study of an ineffectual old clerk
who joins the Fascist party to keep his
job and his family; Mario Tobini’s
sharp sketch of a young Army doctor
trying to understand death in the
Libyan desert; and an old friend from
“Penguin New Writing” and an earlier
Lehmann anthology, Ignazio Silone’s
two-level account of the capture of a
fox and the downfall of a Resistance
fighter in prewar Ticino, which is
powerful enough, but seems a little
more contrived with every reading. The
best of the social stories are Italo
Calvini’s echoing little sketch of an
illiterate goatherd coming to lunch in
a middle-class rural household; and
Anna Maria Ortese’s solid portrait of
a middle-class Neapolitan family.
Though all except two of these
stories there runs a strong feeling for
time and place, and a deep pity for
the plight of people caught in situa-
tions not of their own making—a feel-
ing that people must live and do what
they have to do, and it’s no use getting
indignant about it. The two exceptions
are a rather repulsive fantasy about a
love-affair between the novelist Gogol
and an inflatable rubber woman, and
a clinical curiosity about a homosexual
seduction.
"The Lighthouse"
Nan McDonald’s latest collection of
poems, The Lighthouse (Angus and
Robertson) is really two books in one;
and the curious thing about it is that
one of the books, though everywhere
present by implication, remains largely
unwritten. This impression of duality
has nothing to do with the fact that
the book itself is divided into two
parts —the long title-poem and a group
of shorter pieces—but arises because
each individual poem seems to be,
virtually, two poems.
The first “book,” the first kind of
poetry, consists of that simple,
pleasant, closely-observant kind of
pastoral poetry which Nan McDonald
has long made distinctively her own.
Nobody has so well described the
coastal and mountain scenery north
and south of Sydney: whether it was
years ago in “The White Eagle” or
now in, say, “The Road”: —■
Here on the rampart of the high
country
The wind of early spring is clear
and cold,
The white heath sparkles in the
cleft of the rock . . .
The second “book,” the second
stream of poetry, often running
counter to the first, is one of intense
personal and religious feeling which,
if fully made manifest, would be in
the vein of the sonnets of Gerard
Manley Hopkins. It is “largely un-
written” because, except in some
passages of the title-poem, we see it
only in brief flashes at the ends of the
poems, when writing that seems to be
a description of the weather or the
scenery suddenly turns into something
quite different; as when at the end of
“April Snow-clouds” suddenly she
feels
A grief that God has not called on
me to bear
His bitter sleet and tempest, His
blinding snow.
It is common enough of course in
lyrical poetry for the original image to
expand into another dimension. Roland
Robinson, for instance, sees a rock-
wallaby at night and, bounding at him
down the mountain, it becomes an
image of the whole vast, wild, rocky
place. But what makes Nan Mc-
Donald’s poems different from the
usual “poetry of the image” is that
there is no preparation for the expan-
sion, no logical development of theme
and mood. The sudden uprush of feel-
ing does not seem to come naturally
out of the poem itself but from some
other source outside it.
In “In Time of Bushfires,” for
example, there is nothing logically or
emotionally to justify the conclusion
“But in time of drought and fire It is
worse to be a woman than a tree.”
Why is it worse to be a woman? This
is what is not stated, or not sufficiently
stated; this is the unwritten poem.
A similar hiatus in development,
though not the same inconsistency,
shows in the long title-poem. At first
this is a drama about a lighthouse-
keeper tortured by his conscience be-
cause he feels that his ill-will has
caused the death of his companion;
then it becomes an agonised debate on
religious belief, ending with a deeply-
felt affirmation of Christianity. The
consistency here is that some form of
Christian expiation is a natural solu-
tion to the lighthouse-keeper’s problem
in the given circumstances; the weak-
ness in development is that the argu-
ment wanders too far away from the
original situation.
The lack of logical consistency in
the short poems is the basic reason why
they do not often wholly succeed. But
they remain very fine, sometimes
excellent, in their separate parts:
the pastoral descriptions beautiful
(especially the passage about the
sunlight in the title-poem); the out-
bursts of personal and religious feeling
most moving. And it is possible that
in the book as a whole, if not in the
individual poems, the fragments of
(Continued on page 58)


A
3*
<0
J 6
AND WITH IT HAS GROWN
S&fcu
ORGANISATION
to meet to-day’s needs of
the “Man-on-the-Land”
As our Nation has developed, Elders moved ahead with it. Since 1839
120 years ago—Elders have played a big part in the development of the
pastoral industry. To-day their name is a household word throughout
Australia.
Elders’ 180 Branches give Nation-wide Service, covering Wool, Mer-
chandise, Shipping, Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Skin and Hides, Land
and Livestock, Rural Banking.
ELDER, SMITH & GO., LIMIT
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 29, 1959
Vol. 80 — No. 4146
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521;. ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
CONSTITUTIONAL REVIEW
TT is almost a certainty that Constitu-
tional review will be the main
interest in the 1960 Federal Parlia-
mentary autumn session, with perhaps
a referendum to come at the end of
the year.
The next general election is due in
1961, and it is unlikely that the Gov-
ernment would wait till that year to
have pressing Constitutional issues
resolved. A referendum on Constitu-
tional reform in an election-year,
especially if it is taken along with the
election, represents a hazard for any
Government, particularly when the
background to it is a report like that of
the joint committee of 1958, which
was printed last October and lies
around mocking its official sponsors.
The committee was appointed by
resolutions of the two Houses in May,
1956. Its constitution was: —
House of Representatives: Messrs.
Calwell, Downer, Drummond,
Hamilton, Joske, Pollard, Ward and
Whitlam.
Senate: Senators Kennedy, Mc-
Kenna, Spicer and Wright.
Senator Spicer, Commonwealth
Attorney-General at that time, was
chairman, but when he retired to the
Arbitration Court Bench the follow-
ing year he was replaced by Senator
O’Sullivan, already an ailing man. Till
the latter became a member, Queens-
land had no representation. And the
general feature of the committee was
that the Government seemed to have
avoided placing on it anybody —with
one exception, Mr. Downer —who
might have been likely to be much
more than a soft rubber-stamp. That
Senator Wright, a barrister from Tas-
mania, has proved himself anything
but that could not at that time have
been foreseen.
Indeed, regarding the two political
groups in the committee, only the
Labor party, which had nominated the
toughest of its fighting-forwards, could
have smiled a triumphant smile.
So far as the Labor members were
concerned, their views of the findings,
some of which they imposed on their
Liberal and C.P. colleagues by sheer
force of personality, were all written
into their Constitutional pamphlets as
far back as the Red 1920’5, and were
very largely the product of the group
of extremists of that day acting under
the mesmerism of J. S. (“Jock”)
Garden and his immediate colleagues,
who in turn derived their inspirations
from the Comintern.
r pHUS, at the very outset, the pro-
A ceedings became a party fight: —•
The Labor members of the
committee considered that full legis-
lative powers should be vested in
the Commonwealth Parliament with
the duty and authority to create
States possessing delegated Constitu-
tional powers, but since it was not
possible to gain agreement to this
efEect the committee was concerned
to ascertain what measure of agree-
ment was possible between members
from both sides of Parliament. For
this reason the committee considered
that its work would be better
advanced if its proceedings were hot
conducted in public.
Furthermore, the Prime Minister him-
self had indicated, when moving for
the establishment of the committee,
that “it was not intended that it should
assume the character of a royal com-
mission with many people giving
evidence”; so the committee did not
openly invite persons in general to give
evidence, but made a selection of wit-
nesses to suit its own taste. It invited
the leaders of political parties in the
States to confer with it, which some
(not all) did.
T ABOR, backed by the whole think-
ing of the Left, worked towards
the aim of “democratic centralism.”
The Labor members were playing for
the kind of Parliament, which “Jock”
Garden and his pioneers envisaged—
a universal authority in Canberra, sub-
ject to the control of the A.L.P. central
executive.
The committee, from Labor’s point
of view, was a working-bee to lay the
foundations for this objective, and for
the destruction of State rights, rather
than an inquiry. The result of the
contention within it was that before
Parliament expired the committee was
unable to prepare draft Constitutional
amendments with full supporting
expositions, but only a skeleton-set of
recommendations. These covered the
Constitution and membership of Par-
liament, the resolution of deadlocks
between the two Houses, the terms of
members and the rotation of Senators
and Senate vacancies.
These matters were not notably con-
tentious, but the proposals agreed to
for the extension of the “concurrent”
legislative powers of the Common-
wealth are likely to be viewed, and
rightly, with distaste by the Liberal
and Country parties, no less than by
the commercial and financial communi-
ties. They reek of Labor influence and
dogma.
It is proposed to vest the Common-
wealth with express powers to control
navigation and shipping, scientific and
industrial research, manufacturing of
nuclear fuels, to extend control in
industrial employment to cover deter-
mination of conditions and terms, and
to prevent and settle industrial dis-
putes ; to extend control over foreign
corporations under a revived inter-State
commission which would have power
in the field of restrictive practices and
monopolies ; to widen the power of the
Parliament over the marketing of
primary products, and extend the term
“primary - product” to include “any
product directly produced or derived
from a primary product which Parlia-
ment deems to be a primary product.”
Even M.P.s, it might seem, could be
brought under this.
Next came the extension of the
powers of the Commonwealth to deal
with finance, capital-issues and all
types of credit and borrowing, a sop
to the States in restricting the ambit of
Section 92, so far as it prevents them
from levying charges on inter-State
carriage of goods and passengers.
Finally, a series or recommendations
proposed to take the fate of the original
States out of their own hands and
make it a function of the Common-
wealth Parliament to determine whether
a referendum for a new State could
be held, while at the same time dower-
ing the Commonwealth with the power
to decide what sort of State a new State
should be, and the terms and condit-
ions on which it should be admitted to
the Commonwealth.
The only parts of the report which
are likely to appeal to the coalition
parties in power are those that increase
the power of the House of Represen-
tatives vis-a-vis the Senate. It seems
likely, therefore, that the badly needed
matter of the general reform of the
Constitution, which becomes every day
more urgent with the intensive develop-
ment of the country, may be passed
onto the shoulders of the future, while
the Government settles-down next year
to the task of assuring that only that
part which all sides of the House will
approve and can handle without much
interference from the States will be
dealt with at this stage.
Any bill which is brought down
for the States’ approval should
include all the broad issues which need
settlement so that there can be full
and open-national campaigning on all
of them instead of the hole-and-corner
manoeuvre which seems to have passed
for inquiry in the proceedings of the
Constitutional Review Committee.


ARE THEY THE SAME AT HOME?
An overseas survey made by W. Weatherly, chairman of the Australian Woolgrowers' Council, and secretary G. D’A. Chislett
“has found general support of the free-auction system.” In Australia, however, there is wide controversy.]


PLAIN ENGLISH
No Go at Geneva
The West has failed at the Geneva
Foreign Ministers’ Conference. Its plan
has been rejected by the Russians, but
much the more readily because Moscow
has been kept informed all the way
through of the differences between
Western members. The press of the
free world has shown its gratitude to
the system under which it is able to
be free by highlighting every difference,
by ferreting-out every petty quarrel and
exhibiting it gleefully to the people
whom it professes to fear most and
regards as its enemies.
Wherever there has been suspicion on
the part of West Germany and France,
or jealousy of the British leaders, the
press has given an all too vivid, and
sometimes a highly exaggerated, picture
of the situation.
Whatever progress has been made at
Geneva has been made through the per-
sistence of Selwyn Lloyd, U.K. Foreign
Minister. It is very small, but it still has
left the way to further discussion open.
Even Mr. Lloyd, however, seemed to feel
at the weekend that the point had been
MASONITE FINDS CORN
IN EGYPT- page 20
reached at which to keep the conference
open further would only to be to present
Gromyko with a platform and a loud-
speaker by means of which he could
hold the ear of the world.
The British delegates are in favor of
proceeding immediately to a summit con-
ference to clear-up the matter once and
for all and decide whether it is possible
or not to reach agreement at the highest
level. The Americans appear to want
considerable progress at Genevan before
they will consent.
Khrushchev, both during the visits of
Mr. Macmillan and Mr. Nixon, has
shown himself swashbuckling and trucu-
lent and hail-fellow-well-met by turns.
But a summit conference would prove
the best or the worst, and exhibit the
Russian leader to the world in his true
colors, whatever they are.
It would probably take place if it were
not for the Americans, who adopt the
view that there must be sufficient pro-
gress at Geneva before President Eisen-
hower goes to a summit conference.
What lies behind this stand, which Mr.
Herter has persuaded the French and
West Germans to endorse, is anybody’s
guess. But the State Department has
very little confidence, one would imagine,
in President Eisenhower’s strength and
experience as a negotiator. And there is
a Presidential election next year.
/It would be regarded as a tragedy in
some American quarters if the President
were to come back from such a con-
ference with a failure, or with success
gained by British initiative. It might lose
the election if the Republicans can
still win.
Star Diplomacy
[From Canberra]
Scientists at the Mt. Stromlo Observa-
tory, Canberra, beat the gun by many
months in resuming diplomatic relations
with Russia.
While the professional diplomats were
haggling over conditions to apply in any
resumption, the directors of Stromlo took
the bit in their teeth and handed over
observations recorded in Australia during
a period of 12 years.
Astronomers at the Poulkovo Observa-
tory, near Leningrad, are now working
on the observations with modern com-
puters.
The information was turned over to
the Russians because no Australian
observatory had the resources, or the
interest, to make use of it.
The data, weighing more than 2001 b.
in paper, was sent to Moscow by diplo-
matic courier early this year.
The observations are of star positions
made from the old Melbourne Observa-
tory from 1928 to 1940, and computa-
tions from these readings will be of
great value for new world-navigation
tables.
The Assistant Director of Mt. Stromlo,
Dr. Hogg, said the observations were
given to Mt. Stromlo when the Mel-
bourne Observatory was closed in 1945.
However, because of limited resources
and concentration on other problems,
work on the observations could not be
continued at Mt. Stromlo.
Dr. Hogg said the International Astro-
nomical Union had suggested the infor-
mation be given to Russian astronomers,
who were interested in this particular
branch of research.
The Poulkovo Observatory was happy
to get the information because such
observations of stars in the Southern
Hemisphere were very rare.
The Mt. Isa Railway
[From Canberra]
The Queensland Government is slowly
becoming convinced that the Common-
wealth is “stalling” on the question of
a £22-million loan from the World Bank
for reconstruction of the Townsville-Mt.
Isa railway.
Unless some strong action is taken
soon by the Commonwealth to get the
loan, Queensland will act off its own
bat and undertake a minor (£lO-million)
programme on the most urgently needed
sections of the line.
Prime Minister Menzies summoned?
Queensland Premier Nicklin, Treasurer
Hiley and the g.-m. of Mt. Isa (G. R.
Fisher) to Canberra last week to thrash
the matter out.
The three Queenslanders left Canberra
little the wiser for their 1600-mile return
air-trip.
After a conference with Menzies, two
other senior Ministers and Treasury big-
wigs, lasting almost three hours, Nicklin
and Co. found themselves in the same
position as before they entered the P.M.’s
suite —still no guarantees the loan would
be forthcoming, and no green light to
go ahead with the work.
The Commonwealth claims the bank
will not grant a loan, pending a more
satisfactory contract between the Queens-
land Government and Mt. Isa covering
the terms of repayment.
Queensland argues that it has a satis-
factory arrangement with the company,
but that the Commonwealth will not
exert the right pressure on the bank.
Whatever the cause, a major develop-
mental work, important not only to
Queensland but to the Australian metal
industry as a whole, is being held-up.
It is considered unfortunate, if not
imprudent, that prior to his recent trip
abroad Menzies implied that there would
be no trouble about the loan, once he
got to Washington and spoke with bank-
president Eugene Black.
Not only did he not succeed, but a
following mission by Hiley and Fisher
also ended unsuccessfully.
It is hoped that Mr. Menzies will now
use all his good offices again to impress
on the bank the necessity and the worthi-
ness of the project.
If not, the Government itself might
cough-up the £22-million needed, either
as a loan or on a national-project basis
on the lines of the Snowy Mountains
Hydroelectric Scheme.
Another Crack at the Council
If Labor threats and promises had much
force the walls of the N.S.W. Legislative
Council building would have caved-in
long ago, bringing its roof toppling
down on as varied a collection of com-
fortable clubmen as could be found in
Sydney—assuming, of course, that the
calamity occurred on one of the rare days
when the Upper House was in session.
Abolition of Upper Houses is a plank
which the A.L.P. inherited from the
original framers of its platform, and the
traditionalists of the party cling to it
with a conservative zeal which they mis-
takenly think is radical fervor. Realists
in the Cahill Labor Government changed
minds on abolition several years
ago when Labor first secured a majority
in the Council. After all, the chief
reason for attacking the institution was
that it was a barrier across Labor’s path
to Socialism. With a Labor majority it
ceased to be a barrier.
But the abolition-plank was still
Labor’s official policy, as Trojan Horse
Tom Dougherty, M.L.C., took pains to
remind his leaders, so when Cahill went
electioneering a few months ago he
promised, if returned, to hold a referen-
dum on abolition —under the N.S.W.
Constitution the Council can’t be
scrapped without one. Last week Cabinet
took the first step towards honoring this
promise by authorising the preparation
of a bill for a referendum.
How many steps will follow the first
step it is too soon to guess, but however
many there are they will probably lead
back into the Council Chamber. Back


in Jack Lang’s time, when the Big Fella
persuaded Governor de Chair to give
the then nominated Chamber enough
extra M-L.C.s to carry an abolition
motion, some of the special-service
appointees double-crossed him when the
time came for the suicide vote. To the
gold-pass and other privileges enjoyed
by M.L.C.s of those days has now
been added an allowance of £SOO a year
—not exactly a living-wage, but a very
handy little extra. Also, there’s the
changed situation which now makes the
Upper House, in the event of the Opposi-
tion gaining control of the Assembly, a
bastion of Labor democracy.
If Labor members vote strictly in
accordance with the party’s platform
the Referendum Bill must pass both
Houses —provided there are no absentees
when the division-bells ring. If Tom
Dougherty wants to make sure the bill
goes through he’d better start supplying
all his colleagues with antibiotics.
Self-help Pays-ofF
McGowen Crescent, on Liverpool
Heights, in the Sydney suburbs, is little
known in Australia, but when it becomes
known its inhabitants will be execrated
wherever good union-organisers of the
A.C.T.U. and Canberra breed gather.
Their technique is one which every
Communist union-leader will hasten to
condemn.
These immigrants, all British, found
themselves in the position of a lot of
others of their kind after their arrival
in the post-war years. They were
homeless.
The usual course, in these circum-
stances, naturally was to complain and
get their pictures in the Sunday papers
in front of tumbledown hovels, button-
TWENTY-MILLION
AUSTRALIANS— page 36
hole their local members and have their
misery held-up to the mirror of Parlia-
ment and invoke the Building Workers’
Industrial Union to use their cases to
organise stop-work meetings.
But, instead, they fell-in behind a
fellow-Briton —a tradesman in a busy
line who could have gone about demand-
ing triple overtime at weekends without
any trouble —who organised a co-opera-
tive building-society among them, and
each gave-up 70 hours a month to build-
ing homes for each other.
They put themselves under discipline
and penalty to carry out their agree-
ments. They had among them only a
single tiler and slater and two carpenters,
and no other tradesmen.
However, in four years, in complete
defiance of all union principles, they
have provided themselves with 25 homes
at an average saving of two-fifths the
normal cost.
In addition to providing themselves
with homes, these resourceful folk, have
had a striking lesson in the facts of
economic—and democratic—life.
The D.L.P.
[From Senator F. P. McManus]
I agree with The Bulletin political
writer (B. 15/7/’59) that it is a difficult
world for what he impolitely describes
as “splinter” parties.
One difficulty the Democratic Labor
party has experienced arises from the
inconsistency of political writers even in
The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is conspicuous for
demanding a firm stand against Com-
munism and Dr. Evatt. Yet when the
D.L.P. condemns the Government for
restoring the Russians to Canberra with-
out tightening our espionage laws, com-
plains because the Deputy Prime Minis-
ter supports recognition of Red China,
and points to Dr. Evatt’s claims that the
Government has carried out his policy
of migration-cuts, a policy which the
Communist party first demanded, your
political commentator ignores the
Government’s action and belabors the
D.L.P. for objecting. May I assure him
that the D.L.P., unlike himself, will
remain consistent in its principles.
His reference to my Hibernian style of
expression may not be meant as a com-
pliment, but being proud of my Irish
ancestry, I take it as such. What adjective
would you apply to the style of the last
two paragraphs, where he depicts the
D.L.P. out in a chill world with eyes
fixed on a rock and simultaneously
tempting old associates to kiss, mourning
for lost fruits and seeking new fleshpots?
Something on the Brain
Khrushchev’s last fortnight of perform-
ances seems to lend color to the rumors
that he has been suffering from a tumor
on the brain.
Firstly, he was holding-forth loudly in
Poland uttering threats and insulting the
Church which the Polish Government is
both afraid and unwilling to insult. Then
he had a short period of seemingly
bibulous sunshine, as a preliminary to
arranged visits to Scandinavia, whose
little countries he obviously intended to
subject to pressure.
After that, it having become clear
that the Scandinavian countries were
unlikely to be terrorised and that his time
would be wasted there, his visit was
abruptly cancelled. It was suggested
that he was ill ; but almost in the same
moment he reappeared like a jack-in-the-
box riproaring among the Poles, mas-
querading in comic hats apparently
under the impression that he was
Churchill, and alternating his liquid
good-humor with fresh outbursts of
abuse against the West and threats of
what would happen if they didn't knuckle-
under.
Next he turned-up at the American
Way of Life Exhibition in Moscow, but
his performance as a host to Mr. Nixon,
the U.S. Vice-President, on that occasion
seemed to suggest that he was thrown off-
balance by the superiority of everything
displayed over their * Russian counter-
parts —where there are counterparts —and
was bent on creating a diversion. His
argument of the “my-popgun-is-better-
than-yours” type certainly would have
been more appropriate in the junior class
of a small-boys’ school engaged in a
muddy wrangle in the playground.
That some of his performances are
so childish, however, doesn’t make him
any less dangerous. There has always
been a strain of madness in dictators,
and they are subject to illogical obses-
sions and brainstorms which have cost
the lives of millions of men between their
more gentle periods. In his present
condition Khrushchev is no more com-
fortable to have about the world than
a madman with a rifle and a persecution-
complex.
He is the only man in the world who
commands the power of aggression
because there is no restraint upon him.
Even Mikoyan seems to have receded
into obscurity, and Russian policy
appears to be something either unpre-
dictable from day to day or deliberately
subject to violent changes in the hope
of trapping the free world into some
mistake which would justify an attack
by the Communist bloc.
Not only the successor of Stalin seems
to be unbalanced, but there is room for
disquiet in the fact that the whole Com-
munist regime both in China and Russia
is passing through a dangerous phase of
instability and progressive failure.
When dictators, especially mad dic-
tators of the Hitler, Stalin and Khrush-
chev types, see their positions weakening
they usually have one remedy: gamble
on an attack on somebody outside to
occupy the minds of the people who
might begin an attack on the system at
home.
Help for the Dairymen
[From Canberra]
Federal Cabinet has at last given effect
to Prime Minister Menzies’s election-
policy promise and set-up a committee
to inquire into the whys and wherefores
of the Australian dairy industry.
The committee, which will be headed
by former Prices Commissioner M. E.
McCarthy, will investigate the industry’s
conditions, structure and problems.
It will recommend any steps it con-
siders necessary and practicable, having
regard to the overall national interest,
to place the industry on an efficient and
stable basis.
The committee has not set plans for
its meetings, but will convene when and
where it believes justified.
All the committee’s hearings will be
in public, and two officers of the Depart-
ment of Primary Industry are being
seconded to assist the committee.
Membership includes J. P. Webb,
managing-director of the Victorian Pro-
ducers Co-operative Co.; G. H. Chessel,
of the Rural Bank of W.A.; A. J. Jones,
secretary of the Queensland Council of
Agriculture ; and G. McGillivray, former
Chief Dairy Officer of the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture.
Commonwealth officials expect the
inquiry to be fairly longwinded and don't
anticipate a report much before the end
of this year.


CARLESS DRIVERS
“Discussing the English case of a man who
tried to reserve space at a parking-meter,
N.S.W. Police Superintendent of Traffic, Mr.
M. W. Chaseling, said ‘No one should be
allowed to reserve space at a parking-meter
unless he occupies it with a car.’ ”
Pity the woman and the man
Who merely are pedestrian —
Just single-seaters;
Though man proposes, woman pays,
They may not occupy the space
Of parking-meters.
If man or woman, lad or lassie,
Can have a well-upholstered chassis
It’s rather shoddy
To say that they may not abide
At places marked and set aside
To park the body.
Pedestrian souls are only heels
Born by mistake with wails, not wheels:
They will discover
No mercy in a modern town
Where those not run-in are run-down
Or just passed over.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TTe stopped me in Macquarie Street:
“Could you tell me Par-
liament House is?” I pointed to the
unimposing edifice opposite. All he said
was: “ No !” —“Doric.”
♦& ' ♦> <•>
“Eliza”: To attract the younger fry
to the youth - fellowship meeting held
in the church hall after the evening
service there was advertised:
A HIT PARADE
of Hymns
A A
V V V
“Kate”: Friend, well over 6ft., during
his tour of Scotland found the beds too
short; they measured sft. 6in. against
the beds of England’s 6ft. 2in.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: When the Prime
Minister was asked on his return whether
a Royal Visit "had been discussed in
connection with the 1962 Empire Games,
to be held in Perth, he said there had
been some talks, but nothing could be
said about it at present. It can be
recalled that the Queen seized the oppor-
tunity at the 1958 Games in Wales to
announce that Prince Charles would be
created Prince of Wales. Could it be
that the Prince will visit Australia three
years hence?
“Ercy”: Arrived the same time as
John Laffin’s article (B. 8/7 / ’59), a
beautifully gravured and ducally auto-
graphed souvenir - book from Woburn
Abbey, presumably bought by a rela-
tive for “half-a-crown at the main gate,”
is certainly a good tosheroon’s-worth.
It contains beautifully colored prints of
-the Abbey and its rooms of state and
black-and-white reproductions of its
paintings, the most intriguing being of
“Anne, sister of William, Lord Russell,
who died at the age of four, with an
Australian Cockatoo —150 years before
Australia was discovered! It must have
flown out to sea, landed on an East
Indiaman and been brought back as a
pet.”
❖ ♦>
“Roomy”: Latest persuasion-line to
keep the assembly-line moving in Yank
auto-manufactories: “Women love these
big, he-man cars!”
>X 4
“Jock”: Every decade has its own
cliches: “upper limit” seems these days
a smarter way of saying “the maximum.”
Our Parents and Citizens’ Association is
a mixed lot, architects and other pro-
fessional men rubbing shoulders with
laborers. We were discussing running
the annual picnic for the schoolchildren
when the chairman, a doctor, summed-up
the debate: “Now it’s decided, is it not,
that we fix £5O as our upper limit?” The
Jack Blunt wharfie down the road put in:
“Look, Mr. Chairman,, I move we spend
up to fifty-quid on this picnic.” There
was a discreet, not to say shocked, silence,
and the chairman, with a “What’s the
use?” expression, put the motion and it
was carried.
“Meerum”: Melbourne “Herald” went
to Melbourne glamor-girls about the
Immigration Minister’s Bonn speech
inviting German spinsters here for
love. The southern sheilas were reported
as remarking that Gretchen wasn’t tem-
peramentally suited to Bluey. That ring-
buyers for the frauleins would be the
woman-hungry male migrant population,
who would not be missed by Melbourne
Misses, seems to have escaped both daily
and dishes.
“Corio”: Inspecting the first giant
Boeing 707 I was confounded by a maze
of controls, row upon row of gauges and
instruments. But there’s 100 less than in
the Super Constellation, I was assured
by the p.-r. bloke.
❖ *>
“Deb-Deb”: A trainee at the Wacol
(Q.) Army camp who had a high reputa-
tion among the boys of going a.w.l.
and getting away with it adopted various
guises, but the latest didn’t pay-off.
Dressed as a civilian, he was Tooting it
to the railway-station when a car over-
took him. He accepted an offer of a
lift —and was driven straight into the
camp’s boob. The driver was one of the
camp’s officers, in civvies, going on leave.
" And when did you first notice this feeling of acute apprehension?"


Ts a ship like a city (B. 8/7/’59)?
J- Lizzie left Fremantle for the
muddled East with 11,000 troops
plus a sizeable crew. Her engines
generated enough electricity for a town
of 10,000 people, her stores were as well
stocked with food as the stores of such
a town, and the beer-consumption would
have kept a score of publicans in
luxury. She had two-up schools as big
as any I’ve seen on the Westralian gold-
fields, and the occasional operator pre-
pared to risk his neck for a double-
headed penny. There were the different
strata of society; the lower ranks got
off-color rabbit and the officers and
sergeants were waited-on with ice-cream
and frozen lettuce ; but there were also
distinctions amongst the rank-and-file.
Plutocrats running games could hardly
be blamed for condescension to patrons
who enabled them to cable up to £5OO
back from Ceylon ; but it was harder to
swallow the patronage of a head bettor
having a run of luck. He became an
employer: beer was bought by the dixie,
but insufficient barmen meant half-an-
hour’s to an hour’s wait —too long for
a gambler following his luck or waiting
for it to turn —so a man with time on
his hands found plenty of employment
at a bob a time, and if he could carry
half-a-dozen dixies at a time he soon
equipped himself to hold a place in the
game. Given a run of heads, next night
he might be paying his bob, just as
patronisingly, to one of his former em-
ployers. Add that there was hardly
room in the ship to walk, and mighty
little privacy ; that the air was thick with
smoke, and at night you couldn’t see the
stars ; and you’ve got not only a city,
but also the reason why an outback man
could feel stifled in the middle of the
Indian Ocean. —“Pieter Nuyts.”
*
“Emel”: I could show “Narumee” (B.
8/7/’59) a pure-wool jumper knitted over
10 years ago that is not yet decrepit,
felted nor shrunken, but beautifully soft
and its original size. The tension of the
knitting counts as much as after-care
and wear, for this wasn’t shrink-proof
wool, nor has it had special washing-
care. I have darned moth-holes in it,
but it is still good for at least another
winter’s farm-wear. Two other jumpers,
knitted in double wool, mostly unravelled
from older garments, are in a better state
of preservation, even though some of the
wool is over 20 years old.
♦> *
’ 1 “J.T.”: Dr. C. R. Furner, in an
address at Royal Newcastle nurses’ grad-
uation, said that little more than 100
years ago, before anaesthetics and anti-
septics, whisky was “the main treatment.”
Patients received up to a quart of whisky
a day, “of which the nurses had a share.”
+*♦
“Barra”: The modernised State
Savings Bank at Windsor (Vic.) now has
leg-roped ball-points and metal “Smokers
Please”—different from when the wall-
notice was “No Smoking in Bank.”
“Well have to Wait until she gets over this ‘Swan Lake rehearsal.”
I have often wondered why N.S.W.
lottery-prizes of £5 and £lO have
always been paid by cheque (entailing,
as it must do, quite a lot of time and
paper), when there is always the ready
cash in the building each day for these
smaller values. Since lotteries began in
1931, I’ve also noticed, prize-winners have
contributed a large sum in stamp-duty
(now 3d. on each prize), the special
lotteries alone, at 10s. a ticket, returning
£l9 9s. 6d. each time they are drawn. —
“Central.”
♦> *l* *?♦
“McMugga”: A couple of double-
headers were necessary to revive
McTavish when I told him that a firm
which equips pipe-bands is now making
“indoor bagpipes” for those who want
to practise quietly. The drones have
been altered, to soften the sound, but
there’s a little compensation for the
sacrilege—the indoor sets are half the
price of the standard sets.
❖ * *
“Villefair”: Among the ultra-
modernities presented to me by the resi-
dent of an outer suburb of Sydney was
the supermarket, and civic pride rang
in his voice as he asked what I thought
of it. I told him it reminded me of two
red-letter days in my childhood —when
Mum took us to Paddy’s Markets. My
host fairly iced over. “This is not a
Paddy’s Market,” he told me stiffly;
“this is a supermarket.” Is there a
difference? Or is it just another example
of “jeans” being modern, smart and
sophisticated; whereas the old-time
“dungarees” were coarse, unattractive
garments for Chinese gardeners or men
employed in the heavier kinds of manual
work?
“Wilbur”: Tell “Domina’s” (B.
8/7/’59) second-year schoolgirl that if
John Macarthur had first crossed the
Blue Mountains, and then —instead of
crossing Merinos with long - haired
Indians —crossed his sheep with kanga-
roos, we’d now have a whole lot of
cheap ready-made “woolly jumpers.” The
present kangaroo “problem” also would
possibly not have reached its pest
proportions.
“E. & 0.E.”: Two little boys from
England reached Our Street, and from
the onset of winter never appeared
unless buttoned-up in overcoats and
sometimes in woollen gloves. The Aus-
tralian kids found their flannel knickers
and woolly pullovers more than enough
in such mild weather. At last it seeped
into the consciousness of the migrants
that no others of their kind ever wore
overcoats, and one particularly mild day
rebellion flared. Stripping-off their over-
coats they draped them over a gate, and
appeared clad like the rest of the mob.
But this challenged the rest of the mob’s
superiority, so they promptly shed their
pullovers and hung them on the same
gate. It was now a fight to the finish.
The newcomers, equally determined,


riposted by taking off their pullovers.
Consternation on the Australian side;
one boy ended the deadlock by removing
his shoes and socks. The English team
followed suit. The smallest Aussie wore
no tie, so he sacrificed his shirt. His
brother copied him. They had now
reached the undervest-and-knickers stage.
The English team, really on their mettle,
shed both shirts and knickers, and stood
forth boldly in natural-colored wool
undervests and pants. But before bare
skin could be attained by either side the
contest ended with the irruption of an
angry mother, and the duel petered-out
with the subsequent gathering-up and
sorting-out of scattered clothing.
*X« ♦*« »*4
' “Sanasi”: On discussion here of
pressure-cookers, you would have to go
much further back than the times of
"I think my third—to Harry Thingummy—Was the sweetest dress!”
Ballarat to find a real ancient in that line.
The digester, a pioneer pressure-cooker
“for extracting gelatine from bones,”
was invented by the French scientist
Denis Papin (1647-1714), who settled in
England.
»> ♦> ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: There may be only two
iceworks surviving on Sydney’s north
side, but considerably more than two still
thrive on our southern shore. One at
Burwood is automatic and serves a large
block seven days a week for 2s. in the slot.
A. A
jr V V
“Murray Swagman”: I saw putting the
legs of the bedposts in your boots
practised in the Y.M.C.A. hostels in
London in 1916. The thieves meet this
challenge by working in gangs of three:
one lifts the head and one the foot of
the bed ; the third pinches the boots.
Several of these gangs, mostly Army
deserters, were later nabbed by the
provosts.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Senex”: Stony-broke in London
during the first big dust-up, a guest of
Australian War Chest, I was shown the
long night-dormitory, each bed wearing
boots and socks on its forelegs and an
upturned slouch-hat on one hind leg (B.
8/ 7 / ’59). This incident rang a bell when,
coming into the city in the early morning,
I noticed an inter-State trailer parked
alongside the kerb, the tarpaulin neatly
folded under a back-wheel. The driver,
accompanied by his ignition-key, had
gone to breakfast.
♦♦♦
“Cadam”: Even small-town correspon-
dents have soul-struggles. Received word
on a busy morning that a visitor to town
would like to see me, so I bundled the
baby over to ma-in-law and set off
pronto. At our biggest pub the prospec-
tive news-source wanted to make sure
that I didn’t report a car breakdown
he’d had while driving overland to our
town —he was accompanied by a lady
and didn’t want his wife to see by the
paper that he hadn’t been travelling alone.
Now, should I or shouldn’t I?
Don’t all say “No!” at once.
* ❖ ❖
“Bo”: The urge to put your oscar on
anything capable of ambulation, hori-
zontally or vertically, is not an unknown
characteristic of our race. Beer-chewers
betting which of two flies on the bar-
counter will first reach a blob of suds,
or bushmen putting-up half-a-flag apiece
to determine which of two gecko-lizards
on a wall will first take-off to grab a
passing mozzie, are common sights
enough. Anything from snails and frogs
to cockroaches, desert-scarabs and
scorpions furnished the Diggers with
material for the collecting or losing of
piastres, lire, “onks,” and dollars. But
I have struck a newy: Two Sydney
hombres casting-up in front of the
window of a joint displaying chickens
turning on spits, the stakes going to him
whose selected number of revolutions
made before the bird is finally cooked
is the closer. It has the unique advan-
tages of a cheap mouth-water and a
vicarious feed at the same time.
“H.M.”: How does “P.0.M.C.” (B.
1/7/’59) know that State-school head-
masters do not lecture their pupils on
out-of-school behavior? I have fre-
quently heard them do it. Like
“P.0.M.C.”, I deplore the ill-mannered
behavior of some State - school pupils
going to and from school, but I have
noticed similar behavior from, pupils of
well-known private boarding-schools on
trains at the beginning and end of vaca-
tions. Lecturing on its own is of little
use, but at least many State schools in
N.S.W. use it.
“....AND NOW, A MESSAGE
FROM....”
Like the air that we breathe
And the clothes that ensheathe,
And characters grinding their axes;
International brawls
And the bumper-bar crawls,
And excuses for minting new taxes:
A thing that contrives
To be one with our lives
We accept as a son does his father —
I’m referring, of course,
To that great triple-force :
The bull and the blah and the blather.
These were once the preserve
Of the cove with the nerve
To refer to his “qualifications”
When on hustings he yaps;
Or the real-estate chaps
With their claims about “stone-throws”
from stations;
Salesmen bashing the ear
In the door-to-door sphere.
But these are rank amateurs, rather,
Beside bods who ride
The ether, and guide
All the bull and the blah and the
blather.
Those very smooth birds,
Spinning velvety words —
And they certainly can pile it on, sir! —
Boosting shampooey goos,
Soaps and toothpastes and booze
To the horror of all but the sponsor,
Who must always rejoice
With emotional voice,
And pleadings slapped-on like a lather —
With dongs more than dings
I would crown all such Kings
Of the Bull and the Blah and the
Blather !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The Woes—and Joys—of a Field - Marshal
By ALEC H. CHISHOLM
One of the chief archi-
tects of Britain’s part in
the winning of World
War II has been in
trouble lately. A cable-message
published in Australia a few
weeks ago reported that Field-
Marshal Lord Alanbrooke,
former Chief of the Imperial
General Staff, had an accident
with a lawnmower and broke
three ribs.
This was sorry news on a
dual basis: first, because
Lord Alanbrooke is now in
the “old soldier” class (76 on
July 23), and secondly because
at this period he would want
to be out in British or Con-
tinental woods and swamps
following his favorite hobby
of photographing wild birds.
Accordingly, it seemed desir-
able to send to Hampshire a
note expressing Australian
ornithological regret at the
untimely accident. Lord Alan-
brooke’s reply has given a
few details of the happening.
It appears that when some
gadget in his mower snapped
at a critical moment he was
hurled backwards down stone
steps, with the result that he
struck a brick buttress and
broke not three ribs, but
eight—and this at a time when
he was about to go bird-seeking.
“Mending has been a slow
and painful business,” the
veteran Field-Marshal says.
“I’m still in considerable pain,
but am off to Norfolk to try
to forget my woes while
photographing bearded tits and
marsh harriers.”
There speaks the complete
birdman! The statement,
indeed, is wholly in character.
It tallies with what we learned
of Alanbrooke when he visited
Australia in 1945; what his
war-time diaries disclosed
through Sir Arthur Bryant’s
book of 1957, The Turn of the
Tide ; and what is being
revealed in that book’s sequel,
Triumph in the West.
HThrough having been asso-
A ciated with the soldier-
birdman during his Australian,
visit (and subsequently by
correspondence), I have seen
advance proofs of Triumph in
the West, which is due to be
published in about four months’
time ; and, while it would
obviously be premature to
discuss the material generally,
some impressions of the
volume in a personal aspect
appear to be warranted.
In my view, this new book
by Bryant (again based on the
Alanbrooke diaries) should be
even more successful than its
best-selling predecessor. Its
lighter weight about 500
pages, as against 730 —matters
nothing; the advantages are
the firmer grip gained by
Bryant after seeing the earlier
book in print and the fact that
he is now dealing
with the years of the
advance to victory.
Alanbrooke’s fore-
word to this later
volume is distinctive
and characteristic. As
in the previous book,
he w r armly acclaims
his chief, Churchill,
and this time he
adds appreciation of
Bryant’s “years of
patient labor,” to-
gether with tributes
to various colleagues,
to his “wonderful”
A.D.C., and to his
batman and car-
driver, all of whom
are mentioned by
name.
As the last chapter
of the book relates,
Alanbrooke came to
Australia late in
1945, calling on the
way at Japan to
confer with Mac-
Arthur. This was a
notable occasion
the first time the two
great soldiers had
met and Alan-
brooke’s comments
on “a very striking person-
ality” and his military opera-
tions are, necessarily, of con-
siderable significance.
13 eaching Darwin on
November 24, the C.I.G.S.
flew direct to Melbourne next
day, and on the 26th he “con-
ferred with the Australian
Chiefs of Staff . . . and then,
despite a sore throat, heavy
cold, and splitting headache
after a day in which he made
an impromptu speech at a
mayoral reception, visited a
bird sanctuary, and dined at
Government House, sitting-up
till midnight talking to the
Duke of Gloucester —he rose at
3.15 a.m. on November 27 and
flew a further 1700 miles to
New Zealand.”
That breath-taking sentence
covers virtually the whole of
Alanbrooke’s Australian
activities, although, a page or
two later, some few retrospec-
tive comments on this country
and its people are given. The
nature of the sentence suggests
that at this stage Bryant was
hurrying to get finished, and
therefore rigidly compressed
the diary-notes of the period.
FIELD - MARSHAL LORD ALAN-
BROOKE, sketched in Melbourne on
his 1945 Australian visit.
True, the C.I.G.S. had only
one full day here. It is also
true, no doubt, that he stayed
up till midnight talking to the
Duke of Gloucester ; for (as
I well remember from experi-
ence on the Royal staff), late-
hour chats, usually held while
pacing up and down a room,
were no trouble at all to the
Duke. On the other hand, it
seems improbable that such a
faithful diarist as Lord Alan-
brooke restricted notes on his
memorable day in Victoria to
the degree indicated.
That aside, I’m somewhat
perturbed by Bryant’s reference
to a sore throat and a splitting
headache. The point is that I
was responsible, at Lord Alan-
brooke’s request, for taking
him and two members of his
staff out among birds, east of
Melbourne, on the day in ques-
tion, and, as there was no
indication of physical tribula-
tion during the excursion, I’m
wondering now whether that
outing was the cause of the
trouble. In the alternative,
perhaps the blame can be
placed on the Duke of
Gloucester!
Certainly there was much
talk during the excursion. I
remember that fact quite well,
for one reason among others,
because of a remark made by
Brigadier A. W. Wardell, who
had been seconded by General
Blarney to acccmpany the
party.
“I was a bit scared,” the
Brigadier said later, “that the
C.I.G.S. would ask me ques-
tions about birds, but, as
matters turned out, I scarcely
got a word in during the whole
of the afternoon!”
Every bird of the wayside
provoked queries from the
soldier-ornithologist. So did
the platypuses and koalas
which we saw in a sanctuary.
And, of course, the questions
were not all one-way traffic —I
myself contrived to submit
quite a few, on subjects ranging
from the technique of bird-
photography in Britain to the
quirks of Winston Churchill.
, In short, we had a very
pleasant jaunt without any
indications of headaches or
sore throats—and even when
a year or so had passed Lord
Alanbrooke still found himself
thinking at times of what he
termed “that wonderful excur-
sion among the birds near Mel-
bourne.”
CJeven months after his Aus-
tralian visit (and with the
war ended) Alanbrooke wrote
in his diary, “My last day as
C.1.G.5.,” adding That the part-
ing experiences were very try-
ing. As soon as possible then
(Bryant records) he went off
to join Sir Archibald Jamieson
at Thornham and had “two
lovely days” making a film of
a roseate tern which had just
hatched her family.
“My two days in Norfolk,”
he wrote, “softened the break.”
And with that his diary—■
{Continued on page 45)


POLITICAL POINTS
N. S. Wales Liberals still haven’t chosen
a successor to Askin as Deputy Leader.
It seems that at least seven have nomi-
nated, the voting is close and two absentee
votes are yet to be received. Seven
nominations! There can’t be that much
leadership material in the party. Perhaps
that’s the trouble.
• •
Australia will soon send its first
consignment of steel to Russia. Where
is that cry of “Pig-iron Bob”?
• •
The assurance of an advertising gentle-
man who has just returned from Russia
that the Russians and Australians are
exactly alike —“uncouth, happy-go-
lucky and slap-happy” —shows the danger
of these generalisations by feted tourists.
Let anybody try to shoot a few Aus-
tralians or put even one of them into
a slave-camp and then we’ll see how like
the docile Russians they are.
• •
N.S.W. Milk Board chairman Jacky
Ferguson is back from London full of
enthusiasm over milk-vending machines
which supply milk in any flavor desired
by the customer. In Sydney’s current
Antarctic weather most customers would
probably settle for rum flavor, but taking
a long-term view they’d rather have a
machine that supplied milk with a milk
flavor at Melbourne or Brisbane prices.
• •
The Bleriot Anniversary race from the
Marble Arch, London, to the Arc de
Triomphe, Paris’, was a sporting event
in the tradition of Round the World in
Eighty Days, but an event of greater
importance to the future of transport
was the crossing from Calais to Dover
of the Saunders-Roe Hovercraft, the new
air-land-seacraft which, like the Hoover
vacuum-cleaner, “walks on air.”
• •
The decision of Professor Alexander
Macßeath, Professor of Moral Philo-
sophy at Edinburgh, to accept tem-
porarily the chair of Philosophy at
Tasmanian University because of his
sympathy with the University in its
troubles over Professor Orr, is a rather
nasty blow in the eye for the “academics”
who held-up the late incumbent as a
martyr. The new professor was for 19
years Professor of Logic and Meta-
physics at Queen’s University, Belfast,
and has been Dean of three different
faculties at Glasgow.
• •
Rains at the weekend were nowhere
more welcome than in South Australia.
Till then Adelaide had had only a little
more than 3in. of rain since January 1,
a lower registration for the period than
was recorded in 1914, the driest-ever
year. Most parts of the State were in
similar straits, and the drenching rains
that came at the end of the week covered
almost all the settled areas.
• •
At the opening at Tamworth (N.S.W.)
on Saturday of the Campaign for New
England Statehood, three well-known
Australians born in New England will
be among the speakers.- Lieut-General
Sir Iven Mackay (born at Grafton) will
speak on the defence aspects of decen-
tralisation ; Sir Richard Boyer (Taree)
will discuss the economic advantages of
new States ; and Major-General B. W.
Pulver (Maitland), who is campaign-
director of the New England Movement,
will direct a planning session of the con-
ference.
Other speakers, handicapped a little
by having allowed themselves to be born
outside the boundaries of New England,
will be Professor Bland and U. R. Ellis,
author of New Australian States.
• •
South Australia’s first two women
M.P.s both made their maiden speeches
when the S.A. Parliament resumed last
week. Mrs. Wilfred Steele, L.C.L.
member for Burnside, moved the Address-
in-Reply in the House of Assembly and
Mrs. Geoffrey Cooper, L.C.L. member
for Central District No. 1, performed
the same duty in the Legislative Council.
Both women spoke confidently and well.
Mrs. Steele dealt with price-control and
reform-schools; Mrs. Cooper’s main
topic was education.
Just before making her speech Mrs.
Cooper received a good-luck message
from Nancy Astor, the first woman to
be elected to the House of Commons.
• •
To fill Khrushchev’s cup of bitterness
about the abandonment of his Scandi-
navian visit, Stockholm filled-in with a
visit by Mr. Heathcoat Amory, British
Chancellor of the Exchequer, and his
colleague, Mr. Maudling, Paymaster-
General, who came for talks on a pos-
sible “Outer Seven” free-trade area,
including the U.K., Sweden, Norway,
Denmark, Switzerland, Austria and
Portugal. A snarl from Moscow warned
the Finns, who were inclined to attend
as observers, to keep away.
• •
The Greek Government, which
cheered-on Colonel Grivas to his law-
lessness and atrocities in Cyprus, is
beginning to wish it had never seen him.
His mistake: in Greece he seems to
believe that he is still in Cyprus, and
the official press has been invoked by
the Government at Athens to “pour a
bucket of water over his new ambitions”
and remind him that “Greece has no
time for self-styled saviours.”
“Take-off your glasses! Who was it put me off buying Masonite shares
at twelve-bob!”


Khrushchev told the Poles that every
Communist country should find its own
road to Socialism. Isn’t that what Tito
says?
0 0
Pinky Flat (B. 15/7/’59) is not to be
rechristened after all. When the parks
and gardens committee of the Adelaide
City Council was asked to consider a
motion requiring the Town Clerk to
report on the “desirability or otherwise
of changing the name of Pinky Flat to a
more appropriate name,” it rejected the
motion, thereby demonstrating its com-
monsense.
0 0
Someone at last has said a kindly word
for the Federal Government’s Divorce
Bill, but he’s important: Melbourne's
comparatively new, non-wowser Arch-
bishop Woods. It can't alter the church's
attitude to or practice on divorce or re-
marriage, but the church has standards
at variance with the State ; and prob-
ably, politically speaking, it is the best
that could be made of a bad situation,
he says. It will be interesting to see
how long the refreshing prelate from
England holds his characteristically
English, liberal views in Australia, or
is permitted to.
0 0
Queensland Parliament will reassemble
on August 4 for a session which will
last until December. Fifty-five bills are
listed for discussion, including a Bill of
Rights. Premier Nicklin has denied that
this measure will include provisions to
restore the Legislative Council. He says
there is “not the slightest chance” of
his Government trying to restore the
Upper House.
0 0
Dismissing a claim brought by a Bris-
bane woman against a motorist whose
car had knocked her down, Philp, J.,
said that traffic regulations required that
a pedestrian should walk as near as
possible to the right-hand side of the
roadway. This destroyed any common-
law right the plaintiff might have had to
be on any other part of the roadway.
The woman had been walking on the left
side. Apart from the regulations, said
the judge, “a reasonable regard for her
own safety” required that she walk on
the right side.
* * /
Australia has given Indonesia 200
buses, and proposes to increase the num-
ber to 500, but since some of the first
hundred went out of action through lack
of maintenance after a few months of
use, additional gifts of buses will be
subject to the undertaking that they be
properly maintained. Why doesn’t Aus-
tralia give some of its own cities 500
buses? a lot of the shivering queues in
Sydney will be prone to wonder. Per-
haps the Commonwealth can’t get a
guarantee from Mr. Cahill that they will
be properly maintained.
Kassem in Iraq seems to have taken
the tortuosity-belt from Nasser with his
latest quick-changes. Having organised
the murder of the supporters of “traitor-
ous Western imperialism” in the interests
of the Nasser’s Arab Movement, and had
a few others sentenced to death for
treason against friendly Syria, he had
some more sentenced to death for con-
spiring in the interests of Nasser, apart
from rebels whom he shot-down with
weapons obtained from Moscow in return
for love and affection scented with the
aroma of oil. Then he turned on those
Muscovites who armed him, and his
followers began murdering Communists
while he released the residue of the pro-
Nasser traitors and began making fiscal
agreements with those whom he sparked-
off a revolution to confound.
• 0
Baden Pattinson, S.A. Minister for
Education, claims that the increase in
enrolments in South Australian schools
in the last 11 years is the highest in
Australia. In “other States” the average
increase was 60 per cent, for primary
schools, 82 per cent, for secondary
schools and 65 per cent, for the total
of the two. Corresponding figures for
S.A. were 103 per cent., 148 per cent,
and 110 per cent. Migration and a higher
birthrate explained some, but not all of
this increase, the Minister said. There was
an increasing tendency to stay at school
after reaching 16. In 1949-50 the per-
centage of pupils in this category was
19.4; last year it was 28.9
o e
Engineers of the C.M.F. are getting
useful experience and doing a public
service by construction work which will
allow reopening of the narrow-gauge
railway between Belgrave and Emerald
in Victoria’s Dandenongs. The work was
beyond the resources of the Puffing
Billy Preservation Society, and Army
Minister Cramer described it as giving
the young soldiers far better lessons than
work of an “exercise nature.” Rail-
way construction work, he said, was
essential in war, but difficult to arrange
satisfactorily in peacetime. Eight miles
of the line will be reopened. Children’s
excursions, once a feature of the little
trains, will soon be possible again.
0 e
“Ex-ACT”: It must be gratifying to
the Treasury and the Department of
Trade to see that an Australian
blanket-manufacturer is breaking success-
fully into the North American market,
and competing there on level terms with
European and local makers. This success
abroad should be noted by Australian
manufacturers of other types of woollen
goods.
0 0
Melbourne City Council is taking-out
the lovely, cast-iron ornamental street-
lamps which were erected just before
the depression and replacing them with
mercury vapor - lamps throughout St.
Kilda Road and the city proper.
The mercury vapor-lamps are so
strong they must be mounted more than
20ft. to avoid dazzling drivers and
pedestrians ; and the cast-iron lamps had
given Melbourne streets for 30 years a
repose and grace very much like the
famous streets of London’s West End.
The council proposes to spend £400,000
on lighting in four or five years ; and,
gorged on parking-fees, probably doesn’t
have to give it a second thought.
• . •
As a result of an agreement between
the naval authorities and the N.S.W.
Apprentices Commission all naval-
artificer apprentices trained to the
approved standard of the R.A.N.
Apprentice Training Establishment at
Quakers Hill (H.M.A.S Nirimba) will
in future be granted trade recognition
by the commission. Apprentices carry-
out four years of their training at
Nirimba and the fifth year at sea.
• «
Victorian Federation of Catholic
Mothers’ Clubs wants child-endowment
for children over 16 and still at school,
pointing-out that children who leave
school at 14 earn money for their parents,
who aren’t penalised.
It is a curly one for Canberra. The
Menzies Government has substantially
liberalised taxation - allowances for
parents with children at school; but the
net result does not compare with the
rise in the cost of private secondary
education, which has been even higher
at non-Catholic church-schools.
0 0
It may be true that there’s “no town
like Alice,” but apparently it isn’t the
place to go to if you’re looking for work.
At least, that’s the warning the S.M. at
Alice Springs gave to a man charged
with having insufficient lawful means of
support. He said there were no jobs
going and jobless men arriving there
faced a possible two-months jail-sentence
for vagrancy. Yet it’s not so long since
a bloke named Douglas MacArthur
touched-down there without a job and
became C.-in-C. South-west Pacific.
• 0
Williamstown (Vic.) Council’s senior
health-inspector, N. C. Hawthorn, is
being backed by his council in what he
says is a one-man war against itinerant
food-vendors who fit-up mobile kitchens
and sell doughnuts, chips, chicken-
C chicken -) rolls and hot-dogs and don't
have to worry about any of the regula-
tions which constrict shopkeepers, except
cleanliness; and few of them have
proper washing-facilities.
O 0
“Mugga Way”: In the middle of
last century the grandfather of U.S.
Secretary of State Herter emigrated to
the U.S. from the small Swabian village
of Burgfelden. A photograph in a recent
issue of the West German Government’s
“Bulletin” shows the village (pop. 200)
schoolteacher giving small pupils a lesson
in the history of the Herters, which is
part of the local curriculum. The caption
says that the name “Herter” still domi-
nates the village.


Personal
ITEMS
Appointed a judge in the Supreme
Court, Bruce Macfarlan, Q.C., is presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Bar Council and also
well known in the world of music. Other
appointments, as acting-judges, are Athol
R. Molfit, Q.C., son of Moffit, J. (one-
time Bulletin artist), and Kenneth S.
Jacobs, Q.C., who’s been (in his spare
time from the Bar) lecturer in equity at
Sydney University since 1953. All the
appointees are under 50, and all served
in World War 11.
• •
Bishop Horace H. (“Jimmy”) Dixon
was born at Cambridge (Eng.) on July
31, 1869, and, graduating from the Uni-
versity there, was ordained at St. Albans
Abbey and started his ministry in the
East End of London. In the mid-1890’s
he responded to a call from the Anglican
Bishop of Brisbane and was appointed
to the parish of Southport. Recognising
the value of that near-Brisbane neighbor-
hood for founding a boys’ school, he
bought some buildings on Nerang Creek
and started-off in 1901 with six or seven
boarders. Today the Southport School,
long taken over by the Brisbane Diocese,
has about 400 boarders and as many
day-boys from the Gold Coast area.
The nickname “Jimmy” originated in
the early years of the school, when the
now Bishop was called “The Governor”
—one of the last of the bushrangers,
Jimmy Governor, was active at the time,
so, in customary schoolboy fashion, the
transition was inevitable. Retiring from
the head mastership in 1929, “The
Governor” was appointed Archdeacon
and then Dean of Brisbane, and in 1931
became Coadjutor Bishop of the
Diocese. Today (Wednesday) the Old
Boys’ Association of Southport School
is giving “Jimmy” a buffet-lunch in Bris-
bane in celebration of his 90th birthday.
• •
A. R. W. Jones, Under-Secretary of
the 'N.S.W. Department of Lands, is
calling it a day. He entered the service
as a boy in 1910, and has been Under-
secretary and permanent head of the
department since 1947. He was awarded
the 0.8. E. in January. W. J. Broadfoot
steps into his shoes.
• ' •
According to Parkinsons Law, the
pursuit of progress never ends, so now
Professor C. N. Parkinson, author of the
book, is being succeeded as head of the
history department of the University of
Malaya by Dr. Donald Tregonning, of
Claremont (W.A.). Educated at Hale
School and one of three brothers who
were all inter-State hockey-players, Dr.
Tregonning served in the R.A.A.F. as a
pilot - officer in 1942 -46, then com-
pleted his studies at Adelaide University.
He was awarded a Gowrie scholarship
in 1950 and specialised in Constitutional
history at Oxford.
On the way home from a study-tour
of England, the Continent and the
U.S.A., John Rawlinson, Perth quantity-
surveyor, stopped-off in Rome. There he
met Italian architect Pier Luigi Nervi,
who’s responsible for the stadiums being
erected for the 1960 Olympic Games.
Nervi has a link with Westralia —he’s
drawing-up plans for the new Benedictine
Monastery at New Norcia, in the W.A.
midlands. These should be completed
next year.
• •
John Rogerson (sketched here by
Lambart) represents the third generation
of a pastoral family which owned Pike-
dale station, Stanthorpe (Q.), for 40
years. He no longer uses the PD 1
brand, however, because the family sold
the station and moved to the Gold Coast,
though still retaining Tocal, near Long-
ROGERSON
reach. Pikedale, originally taken-up by
Captain Pike in 1843, was bought by
A. F. C. Rogerson in 1918 and sold to
H. Rubin in 1957. It has always been
noted for high-quality stock and fine
wool, which has often topped the Bris-
bane market. After the death of A. F. C.
Rogerson in 1952, the family presented
the Rogerson Wool Trophy for annual
competition at the Brisbane Exhibition.
During War 11, when it was necessary
to move St. Hilda’s Girls’ School away
from the coast at Southport, the Roger-
son family lent them Pikedale home-
stead, and the school, with about 80
girls, moved in and-remained there for
two years.
• •
Douglas Berneville-Claye. former com-
mando and parachutist who worked in
the Underground movements in northern
Italy and France during the war, is in
Melbourne to assist in the making of
two Victorian Department of Agriculture
films ; he is a former J. Arthur Rank
producer and director. One of the films
will be on dairy-cattle production and the
other on Victorian agricultural colleges.
• •
Back in Perth on holiday, Albert
Arcus, Westralian 1946 Rhodes Scholar,
has been at the University of California
(Berkeley, U.S.A.) studying for a
doctorate of business - administration.
Last year he won a Ford Foundation
fellowship which was competitive
throughout~the U.S.
• •
Vacuum Oil Co. of Australia is losing
the long-time services next month of John
D. Rogers, lately chairman of directors
and deputy-chairman since 1953, when he
returned to Australia after putting in
two years with Standard-Vacuum in New
York.
He got cracking with Vacuum 36 years
ago as chief chemist in Sydney, was
moved round Australia and became
general-manager for N.S.W. in 1945. He
was born in Tasmania, the son of a
parson.
He’s an exceptional soldier: won the
Military Cross and Belgian Croix de
(juerre—he also has C.B.E. —and was
a youngster at Gallipoli, liaison-officer to
MacA., and cdmmanded the Australian
contingent at the Japanese surrender at
Singapore.
With appointments to the boards of
the Defence Business, the Alfred Hos-
pital, Canteens Trust, Ormond and
Geelong Colleges, not to mention com-
mercial boards, he will continue to be a
Melburnian of parts.
• •
“K.R.”: Recently promoted to full
directorship of David Jones, Ltd., after
“rising from the ranks” (in recent years
he has held managerial posts in Perth
and Adelaide), Rod O’Loan was a Rugby
League star, playing on the wing with
Eastern Suburbs, when the Tricolors (and
individual stars among them, like Dave
Brown) set all sorts of football records.
The two wingers, O’Loan and Fred
Tottey, were two of the most prolific
try-getters ever seen in Sydney League
football.
• •
Now studying at Adelaide University
for a doctorate of philosophy, American
physicist Wallace Kantor has already,
in the U.S., done considerable research
on satellites and space-navigation. Home
in America he's consulting physicist for
a Californian firm which makes electronic
equipment. It’s his second visit to
Adelaide ; he lectured there in mathe-
matics in 1954.
• •
“J.T.”: In 1926 a Sydney public
accountant, at the request of Newcastle
(N.S.W.) Council, examined the adminis-
tration of council departments. His
report suggested that W. F. O’Mara, the


council’s chief clerk, should “forthwith
make himself proficient in typing and
shorthand.” O’Mara is now taking a
spell after 44 years with the old and new
councils —and he never did learn short-
hand. He said the other day that he’d
taken minutes for the council for more
than 30 years in longhand and couldn’t
remember their having been questioned
more than once or twice.
• •
It must be nearly a century since the
first of three William Kelsos became a
figure in the racing world. To Rand wick’s
regret, the widow of the second William,
who won the Melbourne Cup with a
horse of his own, Statesman, died last
week. She had troops of friends, who
admired her strong character and well-
furnished mind and quoted her flashes
of wit which were manifested even in
her last illness. Cared for bY a devoted
daughter, who seemed well on the way to
a championship till illness put an end
to her golf, Mrs. Kelso is survived also
by the son who carries on the family
tradition, three others—a stipendiary
steward at Hong Kong, a Goldsbrough
Mort man and a Second World War
veteran —and two brothers, the elder of
whom was badly wounded on the Somme
in 1916. The other (John Webb) was an
editor for 30 years —of The Bulletin
for fifteen (1933-48) of them.
• •
When he retired the other day from
the Victorian Police Force, Daniel Brady
could say he was the only police-
man serving in that Force who had never
had a day off for sickness in all his 36
years. By not using his sick-leave, Brady
saved the State payment for more than
400 days off that he might have claimed.
• •
Leader of the Australian delegation
to an international students’ conference
at Tokyo, Robert Nicholson, of Perth,
is president of the Westralian University
Guild of Undergraduates (he’s an honors
law-graduate of that Uni.). The con-
ference is being attended by delegates
from universities in Australia, the U.S.,
China, the Philippines, Malaya and
Indonesia.
• ©
Lately promoted domestic prelate, with
the title of Monsignor, the Rev. Vincent
Francis Vandeleur is parish priest of
Hyde Park, Townsville (Q.), and before
that was director of Abergowrie College.
He started as a law-clerk, and about that
time represented North Queensland in
Rugby League.
• •
“N.M.”: G. C. Bolton, of the National
University, Canberra, who’s visiting
Charters Towers collecting data for a
book on North Queensland, has found
the records kept at the City Hall more
extensive and authoritative than most in
the State. It seems a pity that such
records are not always more carefully
preserved, because Australia is now
approaching the stage when archives
really matter.
Born in Toensberg, Norway’s oldest
town —where they dug-up a Viking ship
not long ago, and where the Wilhelmsen
Steamship line was originally founded —
Thor Thorvaldson came to Sydney, like
a modern Viking, in 1930, and is at
present joint managing-director of the
line here. He was schooled at Toensberg,
went to college at Oslo before he joined
the firm, and after that served in England,
France, Belgium and Germany, and also
did a stint at the* home-office, before
THORVALDSON
coming to Australia. Now he’s here, he
says he’d like to stay. His sons are
Australian-born.
Thorvaldson (pictured here by Gram)
says there are many links between Nor-
way and Australia besides Henry Law-
son. Norwegian shipping has a connec-
tion with Australia more than 100 years
long. Norwegians have been coming
here in increased numbers since War II
and there’s a Norwegian log-cabin at
Smiggens Holes, below Kosciusko
(N.S.W.), where a number of them con-
gregate as often as they can. Thorvaldson
goes there because he likes the trout-
fishing, which compares favorably with
that in Norway. He also has a lot to
say for Australian painters, of whose
works he is a discriminating collector in
a small way, and for Australian wines.
He takes some of the wines back to
Norway on his periodic visits, and always
enjoys their special character —in a class
of their own, and to be admired equally
with French and German vintages,
though not to be compared, because their
nature is different.
• •
John Edward Lloyd, who’s going from
Hobart to be Westralian Town Planning
Commissioner, qualified as a member of
the Town Planning Institute in London,
and is a Fellow of the Australian Town
Planning Institute, and a town-planner
under the N.S.W. Local Government Act.
After town-planning in Brisbane and
Sydney he went to Hobart, where he’s
been serving as Chief Planning Officer
and lecturing to post-graduate students
at the Tech. He was with the British
Army in War 11.
• •
Steve Pirros, a Greek - born general-
storekeeper of Fremantle, has submitted
to the Westralian Government plans for
developing power from seawater. Not
the first plans of the sort, but Pirros
claims that his particular invention could
provide the cheapest hydroelectric power
in the world. Before coming to Australia
he worked for 25 years as an engineer
in Greece and in Germany.
o •
Twenty - nine - year - old Alfred C.
Reichardt, who started work for the
C.S.R. at Hambledon Mill (Q.) as an
apprentice in fitting and turning, has
gone to the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, where he will study for
his M.Sc. degree in mechanical engineer-
ing. He’s one of four benefiting through
opportunities offered by the company for
study. Two of the others are also to go
to the U.S. and one to Cambridge.
• •
A Fulbright award has gone to Douglas
Edward White, Professor of Organic
Chemistry at the Westralian University.
Previous academic scores: B.Sc. (1931)
and M.Sc. (1932) at Sydney, Ph.D. (1936)
at Oxford; age score, 49. The grant
will enable him to research in organic
chemistry at Wayne University and the
University of California.
• •
Into the Silence:
\ In Perth, at 89, George Russell Dawson,
Westralian florist and nurseryman, who came
to Australia as a sailor,. started in the nursery-
trade jn Melbourne, and then, in 1902, founded
his Perth business. He was a member of the
Darling Range Road Board for 25 years.
In Perth, at 77, Richard William Noble,
former estate-agent and insurance-broker.
Born in England, he came to Australia as a
child, subsequently served with the Victorian
contingent in the South African War, then
settled in Perth, where he set-up as the city's
first insurance-broker-. For many years he
was a member of the Perth City Council.
At Liverpool (N.S.W.), at 73, John Gunn,
Premier and Treasurer of South Australia
1924-26 and later a member of the Federal
Development and Migration Commission.
In Melbourne, at 63, Charles Brumby,
registrar of the County Court. A member of
the Public Service for 38 years, he served with
the Light Horse in War I.
In Wellington (N.Z.), Frank Cooze, barber,
sometime jockey, but perhaps most in his
element as “Cozelle the Magician.” His
unusual figure—enveloped in a long black
overcoat —will be missed in the Windy City.
In Melbourne, at 81, Sir Hugh Devine,
surgeon of international eminence. He was
founder and president of the Royal Australian
College of Surgeons, lecturer in surgery at the
University of Melbourne, and for many years
was senior surgeon at St. Vincent’s Hospital
in the Yarra City.
In Sydney, Jim Stewart, one of the oldest
open-boat sailing officials on Sydney Harbor,
and long associated with Sydney Flying
Squadron. He was secretary of the pioneer
Port Jackson 16ft. skiff-club, and also founded
the Middle Harbor club of similar craft.
In Adelaide, at 64, Alan Hickinbotham, Old
Digger, formerly senior Government analyst
and pioneer researcher in the wine-industry.
He established the first course in oenology at
Roseworthy Agricultural College.


THE CAMEL-BUSH HAS
REDDENED
(From “In My Land Now”)
In my land now
the camel-bush has reddened on the hills
as though the thorns themselves had
dripped with blood.
And up the valleys of the savage scarps
the spinifex is gilding all the range.
And spring there breaks in flood upon the
land,
splashing against the rocks. Red sandhills,
flats
awash with flowers, insistent life which
knows
that nothing lives that does not seed. The
flowers
burn like a fire, again the sidar catches
all the plains with flame. There dragon-
flies
with shimmering wings flare up against the
sun.
There kochia, with the sails of soft rose
silk,
melts with frankenia in a lilac mist
among the stones where, briskly hunting,
goes
the shining black wasp with the restless
wings.
That is my land there, where the crows
are
forever watching; silver and black the
crows,
black with the silver water on their wings.
That is my land where the gibbers lie
in patterns on the ochre plain. Galahs
shout with the strength of it, and
cockatiel
pass with their joy about them and are
gone.
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.
ABORIGINALITIES
our tempura in a Tokyo
cafe, spouse saw at the serving-
counter what she had spotted in other
eateries —a clump of tiny silk rising-sun
flags, their staffs stuck in a potato. She
asked for one; the uncomprehending
waitress sought the manager, who, also
with no English, broadcast for a
volunteer interpreter - customer, who
materialised with alacrity, and after
bowingly receiving wife’s request,
adjourned to the counter with the
manager, three waitresses and the head
chef for a voluble conference. Then,
amid laughing applause from the whole
clientele, our waitress brought spouse a
portion of rice with, stuck in its middle,
the desired flag. Our go-between
smilingly explained that these were
children’s persuading - flags to incite
spinach- and carrot-resistors to mop-up
their vitamins. Coyly he concluded,
“Madam must eat rice, or no flag!”—
“Jeyles.”
* * * *
“Dooley”: At recent Cooktown (Q.)
races a rider was thrown in one of
the sprints. Search for him occupied
the attention of no fewer than 50 on-
lookers, aided by police. Eventually he
was discovered unconscious in the long
grass inside the race-track.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: No need to go to Pales-
tine to float around on Dead Sea water
(B. 8/7/’59). Near Beachport (S.A.) is
a small lake so heavily impregnated with
salt that anyone who dives into it will
bob to the surface and float around like
a cork. In addition to being a tourist-
attraction, this lake has served a useful
"You ’ card —a pound of lamb-chops !"
purpose—many who haven’t been able to
learn to swim in any other way have
picked-up the knack in it, and have then
crossed the dunes to the nearby sea to
swim in the far-less-buoyant ocean-water.
* * * *
•
“Jesmondene”: Square 400 - gallon
tanks with cast-iron interlocking man-
hole-covers may not stud our rural land-
scape so prominently now, but they’re
by no means extinct. Building a country
house six years ago, I needed water
quickly off the garage-roof for the tilers
and concreters, and a wholesale hard-
ware-firm sold me two 400-gallon square
galvanised-steel tanks just emptied of
their U.K. chinaware contents.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: With a catch of 300, the
Byron Bay (N.S.WJ whaling - season
finished with one Jonah, which slipped
off a truck, blocking street-traffic for
several hours.
* * * *
“Monty”: The Ballarat Mechanics
Institute has completed its first 100 years.
For a “gold” city the institute’s start was
a trifle shaky. Profit for the first year was
only £2l, and they could afford only
£5 14s. 3d. for books. However, an art-
union was run—first-prize a vase made of
500 oz. of solid gold. Some of the still-
unclaimed prizes may be seen adorning
the library walls ; the vase was, of course,
claimed.
* * • *
“C.F.”: To many North Queenslanders
in the early days Charters Towers (B.
17/6/’59) was known as “The World.”
Even now it’s sometimes so called.
Because of the long, dry haul west from
the coast, now a beautiful highway from
Townsville, it might easily have started
as “The End of the World” —one has to
think in riding-horse and bullock-wagon
terms to realise the great accomplish-
ments of the early prospectors for metal.
* * * *
Cummer of ’37. Humping a swag
between jobs at fencing and chopping,
I’d started the hike up Northland’s (N.Z.)
Ninety Mile Beach. Stilts and sandpipers
were expected, but not the two boys on
bikes who pushed across the beach to
circle me. Question and answer gave
them my style, and they told me their
old man had a fishing-camp back of the
beach. Soon they went to breakfast, but
inside a mile they returned. Dad had
given them hell for not bringing a sun-
upper in for a feed. I’d already had a


V
\0 MAKE A SUCCESS OP
A OOC+CTAIU PAftT)/ —
yOO SHOULD G-6.T A CouPuS
Op PCPU/vIOS OP 0000 pß.ur4£S
PoT TH£M «M a GLASS JAfl)
Poor a bottu£ op ov^rpspop
RU/V\ OV£A.
AnP U&AVe THEM A
pew weEKS —■ ■"'
U/MTIU TH&y REAUUy
f=A-rreN - op. r/
£pUHOS PSLE-CTA &l £ J BuT
SyAcrty. whsn po you
setose them 7 "
Ah, that’s the point /
you S£Rv£ TH£M AS Scon as
THS v\AF6 'T&u,S you
Vbu ve HAP TOO MUCH
J
TO PRJMK. '


snack on the march, and, after a night
under a rock, chose to keep moving. So
I thanked them for the thought; said
their dad looked a good bloke from a
distance ; maybe I’d drop in and crack
a bottle with him someday. They tried
to tell me it wouldn’t do, but I kept on.
Two miles more, and up they came again,
one with a billy of stew on the handlebar,
the other with a loaf in a loop of string
and a bottle of beer in his shirt. Blown
from the heavy going, the leader at last
got out:.“Told you it was no good!
You’ve got to have it!” So I gave in;
downed the meal; went back with them
“When We sell ’em, we split the proceeds.”
for a week’s fishing. Dad was round
and baldish ; looked as if he’d always
known he’d win—“ Mt. Tiger.”
“Curie”: Not only northern towns
are referred to as “the,” such as “The
’Curry,” etc. (B. 17/6/’59). Broken Hill,
N.S.W., is usually referred to as “The
Hill.” In mining-towns it is also usual
to use initials when referring to the
companies. Mount Isa Mines is
M.I.M. ; E.Z. Co. ’ is Electrolytic
Zinc Company ; “Z.C.” or “Zinc Corp.,
the Zinc Corporation. There are many
of them: E.G.M. Co., N.8.H.C.,
“N.8.H.,” “B.H. South,” etc.; Mary
Kathleen is Mary K.
* * * *
“Larnaca”: Add to “Splodger’s” list
of lullabies or otherwise (B. 17/6/’59)
the soothing music of a mob of yarded
ewes and lambs at night, compared with
the haunting insistence of a single
orphaned lamb. The repetitive “Sweet-
pretty-creature” of a willy-wagtail or the
sleepy call of the mopoke will lull most
bush people to sleep, but a disturbed
flock of birds is a quick awakener. The
rare carousels that magpies hold on some
moonlit nights will awaken all but the
heaviest sleeper, though it is something
well worth being jerked from sleep to
hear,
“Bass”: That explosion “Gabba”
initiated in his exhaust-pipe and muffler
wasn’t a backfire (B. 1/7/’59). A back-
fire is an explosion which drives the
exhaust-gases “back” through the car-
burettor, and it can set a motor on fire,
It can also be a great help in removing
a petrol-blockage in a hurry. I’ve often
raised the bonnet, quickly reversed two
of the spark-plug leads and given the
en g in e a few turns with a self-starter,
The resultant backfires will clear the
carburettor and the petrol-pipes as far
back as the pump.
» * * *
“Spin”: Army surveyors claim to have
discovered from the air three native
villages “deep in eastern Arnhemland”
never visited by whites; and because
some of the huts are on stilts and
arranged in a straight line like Malay
kampongs, this is taken as proof of visits
by Malays centuries ago. I wouldn’t like
to bet there’s a native village anywhere
in Australia that’s never been seen by
whites; but there’s no lack of evidence
of Malay visits, going back probably
much further than a few centuries. Some
of the cave-drawings the best part of
100 miles inland in the Kimberleys can
scarcely have been the work of Aus-
tralian aborigines, and they were held
in a veneration which suggests centuries
of worship. More tangible still are the
forests of pohon-pine and ebony. The
pine, a native of Malaya and the timber
from which Malay shipbuilders fashion
their masts, is established around bays
in which sailing-boats could have taken
refuge from gales, and seems certain to
have been planted by seamen who were
in the habit of visiting the coast. Even a
quick-growing tree takes centuries to
spread as far as these pines have. The
ebony-forest, which is extensive and old,
can’t be explained as readily ; but it, too,
could only have been started by human
agency.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Half the beef - cattle
raised in Japan are bred in the Kyoto
Prefecture, and the calves —a Swiss-
Shorthorn Japanese - Washu cfoss —go
singly to farmers and become ekiniku-
gyu, or labor-and-meat. Steers or heifers
working in cart and plough, they are
coolly shedded and mosquito-netted in
summer, stove-warmed in winter, and
fed only cooked barley, wheat, bran or
soya-beans, but no sweet-potato, which
makes dark flesh. Great emphasis is
placed on massage to distribute the fat
finely and evenly through the flesh, and
this constant chore devolves on any mem-
ber of the family with spare time. The
Nipponese claim that with their beef
there is no need for marination, mustard
or gravy. It could be a matter of each
to his own taste. Recently I lunched a
Bornean native on a tiptop wing-rib and
asked his candid opinion. He said it was
most palatable, but he sadly missed the
good strong flavor of buffalo.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Is there anything
more wonderful in nature than complete
metamorphosis in insects? Take a grub.
Like all insects it has its skeleton on the
outside —if you can call it that —so it
grows by moulting; and although
throughout its life as a grub it appears
to have a row of legs right down each
side, most of these are really claspers
to help it climb over leaves, and all bar
six disappear at the final moult. These
six are attached to the grub’s thorax, and
they’re passed on to the butterfly which
emerges from the pupa, into which the
grub finally retreats, and in which trans-
formation takes place. Everything that
existed in the grub turns into a pulp.
Even the parts that were so distinct —■
the muscles and digestive organs and
all the individual parts —are broken-
down into something that hasn’t any
form. It’s all fluid; and inside that
fluid some small groups of cells, which
were inactive in the grub, now take
charge and start to build the pulp up
into something that doesn’t bear the
slightest apparent resemblance to the
previous form. They produce a moth —
an alert, nectar - sipping being which
travels as far in a minute as the grub
travelled in a lifetime. The only attri-
bute which the two forms have in com-
mon are the six legs by which most
insects can be identified.


"Kanaka Fashion"
By P. F. G. SUGGATE
The tropical island of
Fotuna, most southerly
of the New Hebrides
group, is an extinct
volcanic cone, frequently
capped with clouds, rising a
sheer 3000 ft. out of the South
Pacific Ocean. Landing-places
are few, and to get to fishing-
level the inhabitants, who live
on top of the palm-fringed
cliffs which surround the
island, have to descend 100 ft.
to 200 ft. by precarious paths,
unscalable to the average white
man.
Checking over the known
facts, whilst peering through
very bad visibility from the
bow of the Government launch
for a landfall, I did not like
the prospect of our journey’s
outcome.
At that time —during the"
late ’twenties —I was planting
and trading on the southern
island of Tanna. James Niccol,
the British Government Agent,
who lived there also, often
took me on circuit with him
when he held court on the
different islands south of the
administrative capital, Vila.
In the position of Clerk-of-the-
Court, I enjoyed the trips, and
the change of environment was
always very welcome.
On the day before I now
went to Fotuna he had sent
one of his armed constabulary
with a note asking me to go
with him to this island, there
to arrest, and try, a native
murderer.
P|N arrival at the anchorage
1 perceived Niccol alone,
tinkering with his boat-engine.
It appeared that in the morn-
ing three of his police-boys
very suddenly developed bad
attacks of malaria-fever. The
lance-corporal, by virtue of his
one stripe, which exalted posi-
tion carried extra pay, didn’t
get an attack, and had been
sent back to the “calaboose”
to bring down three of Niccol’s
prisoners, who, as punishment
for minor offences, were work-
ing on the local roads.
They duly came, under
escort by the lance-corporal ;
were sworn-in as special con-
stables by Niccol, and then we
started on our adventure —a
truly Gilbertian touch!
The sworn-in prisoners-ci/ra-
constables were issued with
rifles, bayonets and five rounds
of ammunition, and, in conse-
quence, adopted a haughty
Ynien, as befitted their thus
suddenly acquired new status.
"poTUNA had been “Christian-
ised” early in the century
by the John G. Paton Mission.
Years ago, when the native
“elders” were considered far
enough advanced to take over,
the last white missionary left
the island, since when no white
man has lived permanently
there, the island being visited
periodically by the resident-
missionary stationed on Tanna,
who has acted as adviser to
these “elders.”
There were still a few
natives on the island who had
never accepted the Gospel, and,
of course, the inevitable back-
sliders. A report brought over
by native boat informed that
one of these, named Naulaci,
had shot dead his wife’s
reputed lover, and had
wounded the woman.
The shootings took place
early one morning, halfway up
the cliff from the beach, and,
without waiting to see if his
wife was dead, Naulaci, armed
with a Snider carbine and a
supply of cartridges, had fled
up the mountain, and was still
there defying capture. At that
time, and probably still, quite
a number of Sniders, relics of
early gun-runners, were hidden
in the thatched roofs of native
huts, ammunition always seem-
ing to appear when required.
The only workable land on
Fotuna is at the top of the
cone, and every day the village
women used to climb 3000 ft.
to the top to work their
gardens, descending in the
evening to their homes. The
last 100 ft. of the climb, as I
knew from experience, was
practically vertical, and the
climber had to develop goat-
like ability, assisted, at inter-
vals, by native-fashioned hand-
grips and footholds and the
occasional roots of rock-
growing trees.
Our own prospect of having
to climb that last 100 ft. was not
very pleasant. Although I had
been under fire many times
before, there had always been
the chance of going to ground
and fighting back, but here,
overlooked by a desperate
armed man, already wanted
for two shootings, there looked
to be no such hope.
To say that I felt very un-
“I Wonder how THEY got there ?”
easy about the outcome is an
understatement, to put it very
mildly.
nPHE clouds lifting momen-
tarily just then, I gained
our much-needed landfall, and
found we were on the verge
of overshooting the not very
large island —on a day of bad
visibility and conflicting cur-
rents, a very easy thing to have
happened.
Changing course, we reached
the only decent anchorage
towards evening, and, embark-
ing in local canoes, we were
soon ashore.
Met by the Chief and
“elders,” and practically the
whole 'p o P u l a h on 5 we P ro_
ceeded, via the cliff, to the old
mission-house, in which we had
decided to camp for the night.
Informing the Chief and
“elders” that it was our inten-
tion to hold a preliminary
inquiry at 7 p.m. that evening,
we next bent our energies
towards a wash, general clean-
up, and a meal. Followed,
then, a chat on ways and
means. The plan finally agreed
upon was for the two of us
and two police-boys to scale
the last 100 ft. covered by the
rifles of the remaining two
police-boys, Naulaci to be
rushed once located.
Rather a disturbing factor
concerned our ex-prisoner
police - boys. The average
native policeman of our day
and locality was only moder-
ately good with a rifle at point-
blank range ; for one of them
to hit a target at anything
over 20yds. was usually more
good luck than good marks-
manship—and the chance of
them firing at the fugitive, and
hitting one, or both, of us in
the back was always with us.
But, needs must! We had
to get our man, or else lose
prestige, which would be fatal.
At 7 p.m. precisely we
entered the biggest room
in the old house, which we had
lighted by a couple of acetylene-
lamps, and had managed to
furnish with two chairs and a
{Continued on page 49)


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members oj the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O'Connell Street, Sydney -
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BL 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange.
Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “KETEP,!’ Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
MASONITE FINDS CORN IN EGYPT
Tf the offer of one £2O C.S.R.
ord. share for every 40
Masonite 10s. ords. (and a
shilling cash for each Masonite
share) goes through, from the
point of view of Masonite
shareholders there will be a
happy ending well enough in
keeping with the prospects be-
lived to lie in Masonite shares
as an investment before the
tragedy of the Eildon (Vic.)
plant became known.
No doubt, in the long-run,
the “dry-process” Eildon plant
could have been brought out
of the red and made to work
economically, but it should be
done with much less worry if
it has the financial and tech-
nical resources of the C.S.R.
behind it.
Briefly, the investment
history of Masonite is that it
was formed in 1937, was at
first a market disappointment,
but paid 8 p.c. in 1941 and
thereafter until 1948, when the
rate rose to p.c. After the
reconstruction of 1955, when
the deferreds were converted
into ords., the ord. rate dropped
to 10 p.c. (an effective 15 p.c. on
the old ords.), and it continued
until plant troubles at Eildon
brought suspension of div.-
payments last year. -
Up to 1958, Masonite was a
top-class sharemarket invest-
ment.
Originally (in 1937) 287,500
£1 ords. were issued and
£12,500-worth of 2s. 6d. de-
ferreds, whose div.-rate at one
stage reached 200 p.c.
In September, 1952, a two-
for-three issue was made to
the ords. at par.
In the 1955 reconstruction
ord. holders got three 10s. ords.
for everyv £1 ord. previously
held. In April, 1956, a one-for-
one issue was made at par to
finance erection of the fateful
Eildon plant.
A person owning 300 10s.
ords today as a result of sub-
scribing originally for 30 £1
shares and retaining all entitle-
ments since would have paid
£125 for them. They would
be worth, on the basis of the
C.S.R. takeover offer, about
£450.
Allowing for inflation, that
perhaps is not in itself exactly
a success-story, and doesn’t
measure-up to anticipations of
a few years ago (at their highest
point the old Masonite £1 ords.
touched 845.). But, in the light
of recent disappointments,
“Why, I wouldn't know him from a bar of super-quality,
triple-foam, chlorophyll-charged cleansing-detergent!"
after which the 10s. ords. sank
to below 11s., there are un-
likely to be many who will
hold-back from accepting the
C.S.R. offer.
Those who bought at around
11s. have seen a leap of 19s. a
share in a few weeks.
Revival from the around-lls.
level occurred when it was
announced by Associated Pulp
and Paper that certain negoti-
ations were pending, and it
was assumed by some market
observers that Masonite might
be the subject of the negoti-
ations. It was so, and these
negotiations have now appar-
ently lapsed, no details of any
behind-the-scenes auction for
control of Masonite having
been made public.
A day before the C.S.R.
offer was made public Masonite
shares were selling at 17s. 6d.,
against the offer of 30s. with
C.S.R. shares at £5B ( plus Is.
cash for each Masonite unit).
Masonite should be a par-
ticularly valuable acquisition
by the C.S.R., which could do
with a product in its building-
materials division of the par-
ticular standard established in
hardboard by Masonite. Asso-
ciated Pulp has been Masonite’s
closest competitor in hard-
board, and latterly has been
making the going particularly
severe with its Burnie-board.
The C.S.R.’s range of build-
ing materials is widening
rapidly. It makes asbestos-
cement sheet, etc., gypsum pro-
ducts, Cane-ite, other building-
board, non-ceramic wall- and
floor-tiles, and is buying a
major interest in Bradford In-
sulation, makers of insulating
material.
With its spirits, chemicals,
and interests in plastics and
petrochemicals, as well as the
traditional sugar, it is develop-
ing into a remarkable empire
that should ultimately be much
more profitable than has so
far proved to be the case.
Control of hardboard-manu-
facture will now be divided
between two major interests,
whereas hitherto there have
been three. Gypsum and
plaster products are mostly
controlled by Australian
Gypsum Products Pty. and
C.S.R. There are several manu-
facturers of asbestos-cement
sheets and the like, including
Hardie’s and Wunderlich’s.
Michael Nairn and Co. is going
into the non-ceramic floor-tile
business now, as well as being
the sole manufacturer of lin-
seed-base linoleum in Aus-
tralia, and will remain a com-
petitor of the C.S.R.
A takeover of all Masonite
shares would involve the C.S.R.
in an issue of 109,372 of its
own £2O shares and the pay-
ment of £218,740 in cash. But
the C.S.R. is prepared to take-
over as low as 60 p.c. of the
4,374,912 ords. in Masonite.
Masonite (U.S.A.) and Aus-
tralian Consolidated ‘lndustries
are large holders of ords. in
Masonite following the con-
version of their deferreas in
1955.
If the takeover is accom-
plished as planned, C.S.R. will
have cemented again an asso-
ciation which began in 1938,
when it agreed to act as dis-
tributor for Masonite, an
arrangement which was later
broken-off in view of C.S.R. s
extensions into the manufac-
ture of building-materials.
It seems unlikely that the
C.S.R.’s planned hardboard
factory at Bacchus Marsh
(Vic.) will now be proceeded
with.
A.C.I. Bonus-issue
’T'he one-for-six bonus-issue
-*• announced by Australian
Consolidated Industries, Ltd.,
was a disappointment for
some, but it was generally
appreciated by the share-
market, which added another


KILLARA - SYDNEY
43 Stanhope Road (East Side)
m
m
m
£16,500
This gracious Home is set in a beautiful garden site in this
exclusive locality. There are 3 reception rooms, 5 bedrooms,
sep. s.c. maid’s quarters, 3 bathrooms, 4 toilets. The condition
is immaculate, all fixed floor coverings, blinds, curtains, wash
mach., are included. The vendor will be pleased to discuss
details of price, etc., with any party seriously interested
personally.
Phone: BM 3431 or BM 6055 Sydney
4s. to the rise from this year’s
“low” of 595. 3d., and took
the market up to 745. The
issue will be made from share-
premium reserve, and will
absorb most of it. The holders
of 226,800 shares being allotted
to former shareholders in Luke
Muras, being taken-over by
A.C.1., will participate in the
bonus.
At 745. the ex-rights price of
the shares becomes 635. 6d.,
which would show a return of
a shade under 4 p.c. on a
maintained 12£ p.c. dividend.
It would seem that maintenance
of the div. is anticipated, other-
wise there would be little point
in making the bonus-issue.
A.C.I. was one of the earliest
examples of diversification of
activities among the larger Aus-
tralian manufacturers. Apart
from its own activities, its in-
vestments are widespread,
which should help in resisting
any shock that may be coming
from the increasing switchover
to cans where bottles were
formerly used.
Bid for the Australia
TCrom an undisclosed bidder
A an offer has been made for
all the shares in the Australia
Hotel Co., Ltd., owner of the
Australia, Sydney’s biggest
hotel, in the financial heart of
the city, and running through
from Castlereagh Street to
Martin Place.
It is reported unofficially
that the offer has come from
Federal Hotels, Ltd. Officially,
the directors say they are con-
sidering the offer, and on
Thursday last advised share-
holders not to sell their shares.
Those who did sell saw their
scrip leap from 565. to 61s. on
Thursday, with another jump
to 725. on Friday, then a
reaction to 70s.
Apparently with the possi-
bility of a takeover bid in
mind, the Australia board
recently made a bonus-issue of
one-for-four out of assets-
revaluation, and gave indica-
tions of more to come. The
£1 ords. rose from this year’s
“low” of 435., pre-bonus, to
565., ex-bonus, and leapt again
after the takeover announce-
ment.
Federal Hotels, from its
rather weird (1885) architecture
in Collins Street, Melbourne,
has extended its chain to take-in
Menzies and Savoy-Plaza in
Melbourne, Wrest Point, near
Hobart, and Usher’s and
Hampton Court, in Sydney.
It has done this on an issue
of 6,763,450 ss. ords. and
51,933 £1 9 p.c. prefs. Capital
of the Australia in Sydney is
840,606 £1 ords. and 33,000 £1
6 p.c. prefs.
Miauri (Papua) Drilling
[From Li. Owen]
TlZhat I intended to convey
when I used the words
“after the experience of drill-
ing through 2000 ft. of igneous
rock” (B. 22/7/’59) was not
that the Bureau of Mineral
Resources had carried out the
drilling of the Miauri (Papua)
borehole, but that it was
responsible for that drilling.
I regret that I used the term
“experience of drilling” rather
loosely, but my meaning could
not be misinterpreted by any-
one who has followed the
search for oil in Papua, as it
has never been questioned
that the actual drilling was
done by the Papuan Apinaipi
Petroleum Co.
Following the completion of
the well, however, it was stated
by the then chairman of P.A.P.
at a meeting of shareholders
that the lower part of the well
was sunk under protest —and
against the advice Of the co.’s
resident geologist—on the in-
sistence of Dr. Raggatt’s de-
partment, under threat that the
50/50 subsidy would be with-
drawn if the drilling was
stopped. The correctness of
that announcement—as far as
my information goes has
never been challenged, and I
consider that description of
my statement, in the quota-
tion used in B. 22/7/’59, as
“factually incorrect” is not
justified.
Au . , .
Abont a year prior to he
location and drilling of the
fte Zt and after XSriTrf
the available Add evince-
w'd r Vb K th h nh rd o?Ad Artar
Wade (both of the Oil Advisory
Committee) and myself that
the Miauri depression was
probably an igneous sink-hole.
Work subsequently done in the
area—although it revealed
some very interesting tectonic
conditions—all pointed to the
unsuitability of the Miauri
producer 8 I* ISTSfcS
therefore, to subscribe to Dr.
Raggatfs belief (B. 22/7/’59)
that “time may yet justify” the
drilling of the Miauri hole
below the point at which it had
penetrated a very substantial
thickness of igneous rock.
It is good news to learn that
the publication of the informa-
tion collected by B.M R. is to
be speeded-up. Might I sug-
gest, also, that the heavy
responsibility of recommend-
ing the allocating of oil-sub-
sidies should be transferred to
a panel, as was the case when
the Oil Advisory Committee
was in existence,
Kiwi Takes .ov e r Bon Ami
TT" iwi Polish Co. Pty., Ltd.
K _“ Th e House of Ramsay”
addi controlling-
interest in Bon Ami Co. of
Australia Pty., Ltd., Sydney, to
W subsidi The busines
alreadv snreads over 155 over .
already spreads over 155 over
seas countnes -
Bon Ami of Australia has
been a subsidiary of Bon Ami
Co., Inc., of New York, which
will retain a minority-interest
and be represented on the
board
House of Ramsay” has
« r °™ ° ut of K,WI b°°t-polish,
whlch has successfully com-
peted with the products of the
most advanced manufacturing
countries, including Britain and
the U.S.A., and Kiwi Polish
Co. Pty. remains a proprietary,
though whether it is so for
tax purposes is not clear. Its
activities have extended into
floor- and furniture-polishes,


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability)
REGISTIERED UNSECURED
LOAN STOCK
With principal and interest unconditionally guaranteed
by General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York
6i
7 %
%
per annum
per annum •
.6 and !0
YEARS
YEARS
£lOO or any multiple thereof may be invested in any or all of the currencies—
-3 years, 6 years, 10 years. GMAC, Australia has the right to repay earlier.
Conditions of repayment, including premiums, are set out in the prospectus.
Applications for Loan Stock can be accepted only on the printed form attached to
the prospectus. Copies offull prospectus with application form obtainable from:
CAPITAL CITY OFFICES OF
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divokcs.
TO WILLIAM OLIVER DARLEY late
of Randwiek in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that ELLEN
•DARLEY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 162 of 1959 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 21st day of September 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MITCHELL, TORPEY
& CO., Solicitors, of 741 Hunter Street,
Newcastle West or their Sydney agents,
MESSRS. J. C. HARRIS & CO., Soli-
citors, 39-49 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUG HAN. Registrar.
household and industrial
cleansers and aerosol filling.
It would make an interesting
public float, but there is no
talk of that yet.
k * '
Chain-store Slow-down
YSTith G. J. Coles reducing its
• annual div.-rate from 11.6
p.c. to 11 p.c., and Woolworths
offering lucky customers a
free trip to Honolulu, it would
appear that trading in the chain-
store world has become as com-
petitive as it has elsewhere in
the retail trade.
For some time it has been
apparent that expansion of
chain-store activities was not
yielding the rate of profit
obvious in former years, and
there is a reluctance nowadays
to issue ordinary shares at par,
because of the ensuing dividend
burden, whereas in days gone
by frequent par-issues and
bonus-issues were the great
attraction of chain-store scrip
as an investment.
A bonus-issue of one-for-10
is coming from G. J. Coles
later this year, but it is in-
tended mainly as a quid pro
quo for the bypassing of exist-
ing shareholders when the last
ord. issue was made at a high
premium through a firm of
sharebrokers.
Minster’s Record Year
T>rofit-earning by Minster,
Ltd., has exceeded the ex-
pectations of all its admirers
—well, there may be one or
two enthusiasts who can truth-
fully say “I told you so,” and
good luck to them.
For the term to June 30
last, after tax of £341,321, con-
solidated net profit was shown
at £537,934, which represented
49.8 p.c. on the one-class ord.
capital of £1,079,096.
The dividend has been lifted
to 20 p.c. (£215,820), and after
payment of it £322,114 will
be left for reserves.
Liquidity will not be known
until complete figures are
available, but all additions to
plant since the first issue of
250,000 £1 ords. have been
paid for out of earnings—
which means that capacity has
been trebled without asking
shareholders for any more
money.
Latest capital - outlay has
been on the third plant-unit
and on the gamma-radiation
project now nearing com-
pletion.
At the weekend the Port
Pirie was due to berth in Mel-
bourne with a consignment of
150,000 curies of radioactive
cobalt destined for the Dan-
denong plant of Minster’s chief
subsidiary, Westminster Car-
pets Pty., Ltd.
In London “Daily Tele-
graph” of July 2 its science-
correspondent (Anthony Smith)
had this to say:
The largest radioactive consign-
ment ever to leave one country
for another is on its way from
Britain to Australia. It is inside
two lead containers, each of which
weighs 10 tons.
The consignment consists of
150,000 curies of radioactive cobalt.
The curie is a unit of radioactivity
and represents the amount of
activity in one gram of radium....
This particular consignment of
radioactive cobalt was produced in
the reactors of Calder Hall and is
destined for the Westminster Carpet
Company at Dandenong, 18 miles
south-east of Melbourne.
It will be used in the struggle
to keep anthrax out of Australia.
The cobalt will be used to kill-off
bacilli in the bales of goats’-
hair used by the company in carpet-
making.
The present and customary pro-
cedure is to open-up all the bales,
fumigate them and hope that no
anthrax bacilli have escaped during
the process. But with the radio-
active source it will be possible to
kill-off the baciili in the bales with-
out all the trouble and expense of
undoing them.
This consignment of cobalt "has
been sold for about £70,000. The
cost of its installation will be
another £50,000, but against this
capital-expenditure of £120,000 can
be offset the previous expense of
unravelling all the bales....
The development-work associated
with this consignment of cobalt
was partly done by the Authority’s
technical irradiation group at
Wantage, Berks., and partly by
Leeds University.
Apparently the cost-figure of
£120,000 in the “Daily Tele-
graph” article is expressed in
sterling, which represents
£150,000 in Australian cur-
rency. Still, that is less than
half the profit retained by
Minster last year.
Fumigation is a bugbear in
the entire Australian carpet in-
dustry, as all carpet-wool and
-hair is imported. Other car-
pet-manufacturers hope to be
able to use Minster’s plant, and
there are additional (but at
present experimental) possi-
bilities of gamma-radiation in
respect of the preservation of
food without refrigeration.
The gamma - sterilisation of
goat-hair is expected to be
operating at Dandenong before
the end of this year. Of in-
terest, also, are the present
negotiations to export West-
minster carpet to Canada.
More may be heard about both
these developments in the
annual report, though/ the co.


Over-subscriptions
still being accepted
INTEREST PAYABLE
HALF YEARLY
Free of exchange in
capital cities.
O
PER ANNUM ?: • V
SEVEN Oft TEN YEARS
Per Annum —Five Years
°/
0
Per Annum Three
: Years
o
Per Annum—Two Years
10/
5/®
Per Annum—One Year
CHEVRON
QUEENSLAND LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR OF
£250,000 REGISTERED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Double your outlay in ten short years by investing in
the new Chevron Queensland Limited £250,000 issue.
Take your choice of terms from one year at 5£% to
seven or ten years at 10%, and watch your savings
grow with the growth of Queensland’s fabulous
Gold Coast.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
CORRIE & CO.
(Members of the
Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
SURFERS PARADISE.
WALTER P. HAM & CO.
(Members of the Stock
Exchange of Melbourne)
105 QUEEN ST.,
Phone MU655 I. MELBOURNE
TRUSTEE FOR THE DEPOSIT NOTEHOLDERS:
QUEENSLAND UNITED INVESTMENTS LTD.,
■4OO Queen Street, BRISBANE.
THE PROSPECTUS FOR THIS ISSUE COMPLIES
FULLY WITH THE NEW VICTORIAN COMPANIES
ACT OF 1958
OBTAIN A COPY OF THE PROSPECTUS
. . from the Underwriting Brokers or any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange in Australia, or from any Branch of the Bankers
to the Issue:
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANK LTD.
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
CHEVRON QUEENSLAND LIMITED
Cavill Avenue, Surfers Paradise, Queensland
Please send me a copy of the Prospectus of the Deposit
Note Issue.
Address
CQ4/B
is not over - communicative
about its activities.
In last year’s record profit,
factors were the additional unit
of capacity and a return by
Holden to the use of rubber-
bonded Westminster carpet in
the front compartment. The
motor-car industry is still of
great importance to Minster,
but domestic use of its product
is expanding. What effect
tufted carpets will have in sales
remains to be seen, but its own
process is so close to automa-
tion that wage-rises have a
comparatively small effect on
costs of production.
As. to the past —well, the
position at last week’s price
of 555. for the shares was that
the investor who helped put-up
the original £250,000 and re-
tained his bonus-scrip could
see a market valuation of
£l9OO for each £lOO he in-
vested.
Higher-octane Petrol
[From Ij. Owen]
Tf only in the interests of
correct description, it is
good news that all the so-called
“standard” and “premium”
petrols currently on sale in
Australia are to receive a face-
lift which will bring them
nearer to the similarly-named
grades overseas.
In August the petrol sold
here as “standard” will have
its “octane”-rating raised from
an uncertain 75 to 19-plus, and
this will benefit even the
decrepit vintage - cars which
clutter our roads, especially at
weekends. Owners of compara-
tively modern cars, with com-
pression-ratios of 6-7 to 1 (to
which most of them have been
specially reduced to suit our
petrol) will be able to enjoy
the comfort of 79-octane spirit
at a welcome saving of 3d.
a gallon ; while, for the first
time here, drivers of unmodi-
fied modern cars, with com-
pression-ratios of around 9 to
1, will be able to use 85-octane
fuel at the price they now pay
for the unsuitable 79 - octane
variety.
The only class of motorist
who is out of luck is the one
with a fully-imported, super-
duper U.S. car with a com-
pression-ratio of above 9 to 1.
This may have its advantages,
as the latest American cars are
not suited —either by reason of
overall dimensions or speed —
to Australian road conditions,
particularly where the prime-
mover is 100-octane fuel.
As was pointed out in these
pages some years ago, there are
two methods “motor” and
“research” currently em-
ployed for the determination
of octane-ratings, and the re-
sults obtained by their use
differ from zero up to three
points and occasionally more.
This divergence is of no great
importance to the run-of-the-
mill motorist, as the relation-
ship between octane-rating and
actual road-performance varies
with the type of engine and on
the manner in which it is
driven.
The boosting of octane-
values, without any correspond-
ing increase in price, will result
generally in improved perform-
ance, both in m.p.g. and com-
fort, and will reduce the cost
of petrol-driven transport.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
KING KONG
Personally I have the
strongest family - feeling for
gorillas and I am not surprised
to learn that Sir Edward Hall-
strom’s King Kong has been
drawing record crowds to
Taronga Park. It just shows
that the brotherhood of man
is still warmly recognised in
Sydney; and, as a matter of
fact, when I met King Kong
I found myself in the company
of some of his relatives from
Melbourne and Canberra, too.
One of them was the poet,
David Campbell.
The first time I tried to see
King Kong I made the mistake
of going over, with about 10-
million other hopeful homi-
noids, on a public holiday
when he wasn’t yet out of
quarantine. You couldn’t see
King Kong ; you couldn’t see
the lions or the seals for the
crowd; and I found myself
walking in a crocodile through
the aquarium (which is as
superb as ever) to find a bit
of space to breathe in.
The next time I cleverly
went over on a wet week-day,
when there was hardly anyone
at the Zoo ;• but that was
slightly over-clever, for King
Kong doesn’t like the rain
either. He was shut away in
his centrally - heated luxury
“flat” (which is just a nice
large cage, really) and was
only dimly to be seen sitting
at the bars of his front-door
or taking a turn round the
interior.
Even at that, big, shadowy,
black and mysterious, he was
dramatic. It is almost the best
way to see him. He looks to
be shambling up out of the
blackness of time ; very much
a caveman ; very much a pic-
ture of our ancestors—though,
if I understand the latest
theories of evolution correctly,
he is only a sort of side-branch
of the family and our direct
ancestor is a beastly little
Malayan rat called the Tupaia.
But it is the nature of man
to want to shake hands with
a gorilla instead of just glimps-
ing him in the distance ; and
this was where the magic
words “press” and “Bulletin”
and the extraordinary courtesy
of Mr. Coleman, the manager
of the Zoo, and Mr. Cody,
King Kong’s keeper, not for-
getting the gatekeepers and the
secretary, opened all doors . . .
except, mercifully, the last.
Mr. Cody says that King Kong
is the friendliest of gorillas,
but would probably rip all
your clothes off if you got
right in the cage with him.
He did, in fact, have a
crack at Mr. Cody’s hat while
I was there (in the kitchenette
with the refrigerator and the
vegetables), but I am not sure
“This must be a Wonderful job in America, with their forty-nine States!"
whether he was trying to
borrow it or merely to crack
Mr. Cody.
He had been playfully, but
a trifle realistically, trying to
chew Mr. Cody’s finger ; Mr.
Cody playfully slapped his
great black hand ; and quick
as a flash the other great black
hand swung backwards over
his shoulder somehow and,
through the bars, donged Mr.
Cody on the hat. He seemed
very fond of Mr. Cody and,
when the keeper tickled his
armpits through the bar, coyly
rolled his head around, nestled
against the bars and said “Erg
erg,” which meant, so Mr.
Cody said, that he was
laughing.
He was certainly fond of
his joke. In fact —I am not
trying to be funny, or dis-
respectful either—he reminded
me quite a bit of Danny Kaye:
for he is a born comedian, and
he knows it, and every trick he
can do, he does one after the
other.
He drops his bit of parsnip
out of the cage for you to
pick it up again, just like a
baby in a pram ; he chucks a
handful of shavings at you and
softly laughs “Erg erg,” daring
you to throw it back at him ;
he dives round the cage
flourishing his bedding like a
banner; he dashes into a
corner and beats a gong ; and,
magnificently, like all the best
gorillas in the story-books, but
surprisingly quietly, he beats
his hairy black chest with his
open hand.
But the most surprising
thing of all about him is what
a beautiful creature he is. True,
he has a bit of a snout on him
and because of that, if you
catch him at the wrong angle,
he doesn’t look human at all.
But then he has a wonderful
big toe, much better than ours,
which he uses like a thumb to
wrap round the bars of the
cage; and his back is lean
and straight and musculaf;
and his arms of course are
most impressively strong and
sinewy ; and his hands with
their black fingernails are most
disconcertingly human; and,
above all, his fur is so clean
and rich and glossy and black,
just like a well-fed black cat’s,
that on the whole it is a great
pleasure to claim him as a
relation.
There are moments, more-
over, when he turns his back
to you and cocks a bright
brown eye over his shoulder,
when he looks completely
human—just like a wild, agile,
wicked, endearing young man
out of Africa who has decided
never to grow-up, but to make
his living as a tumbler and a
comedian. Mr. Cody said I
ought to ask Sir Edward about
his intelligence, and I would
have, too, only Sir Edward was
away up in Darwin or some-
where talking to another of
our connections, John Calvert’s
chimpanzee.
S.
Stage and Music
Czech Wind Quintet
At Sydney Con. last Satur-
day night the Czech Wind
Quintet (Stefek, horn; Heel,
flute ; Schejbal, oboe ; Vacek,
bassoon, and Kopecky, clarinet)
demonstrated musicianship of
a high degree in a programme
ranging from the 18th century
to the present day.
This quintet does more than
throw music at you ; it some-
how achieves a subjective
mastery of content, allied with
rhythmic flexibility—the sort of
playing that invites you to share
delicate interpretational secrets.
Stylistically, the Antonin
Rejcha quintet, first on the pro-
gramme, was standard stuff:
this music, sometimes reminis-
cent of Haydn, at all times
neatly boxed in classical frame-
work, tells you more about a


SAVE
£5OO to
£lOOO P A.
INTAX
This Year and
Each Year
(or the Next 5 Years
A strictly Limited Offer of
Outstanding Tax Savings
Opportunity to Recipients
of
Higher-than-average
Incomes
Particulars by Personal
Interview. For Appoint-
ment, phone—
D. M. CLARKE
& COMPANY
Tax Consultants
11 Randle Street, Sydney.
mid-18th-century master than
any programme-note. Horn-
player Stefek is one of those
rarities: an ensemble-player
who, in terms of dynamics,
knows how to keep his distance;
so the soaring brass passages
in the larghetto were a real
pleasure. And so, of course,
was the dancing scherzo.
Rossini’s Quartet (flute,
clarinet, horn and bassoon) was
less square-cut than the Rejcha,
tending to the lyrical and
romantic. After the andante,
there is a sprightly allegretto
punctuated with ribald clarinet
scurryings; and it is nice to
know that the players are sub-
ject to human limitations, for
a couple of times Kopecky's
clarinet, as if of its own accord,
dared to disobey its master’s
intonational wishes.
A last-minute addition,
strengthening one’s impression
that the quintet is full of the
pioneering spirit, was the world
premiere of “My Friend Billy,”
by 16 - year - old Robert
Cuckson, of Penrith (N.S.W.).
Complete with liberal scoring
in modern harmony, this com-
position, while showing a most
pleasant leaning to Samuel
Barber, is rather thickly
arranged—the first part, that
is. The quick section has a
better distribution of voices,
with a consequent improvement
in tonal antiphony. There is a
nice abrupt ending. Robert
Cuckson is obviously out to
break new ground.
After interval, two pieces by
contemporary Czechs: a series
of “Exercises” by Ilja Hurnik,
and a Concertino by Jan
Novak. Good-humor and lots
of color diffuse the “Exer-
cises”: No. 3, for instance, is
a skittering piece of free-fugue
writing, almost laughing at
itself ; No. 4 is founded on an
ostinato bassoon pattern.
Novak, on the other hand, goes
to the Vivaldi period and, add-
ing a mayonnaise of modern
harmony, turns the old into
something new. In the first
movement he is concerned with
getting the most out of cross-
rhythms ; and in the andante
the bassoon describes a leaping
Bachian progression.
A. W.
“Volpone”
It seems a strange proceed-
ing for Sydney Independent,
when it is putting on Ben
Jonson’s “Volpone,” to put on,
instead, a very free adaptation
into German by Stefan Zweig,
translated back into English
again by Dr. Alphons Silber-
mann.
Why not simply put on
“Volpone”?
Old Ben’s play might
well need shortening and
simplifying; but it could be
done ; and so could that most
amusing and thoroughly con-
temporary comedy
Alchemist.” Besides
Jonson himself in the adapta-
tion, and missing two of his
best characters and seeing some
of the others distorted, inevit-
ably you miss the richness of
his language ; and get, instead,
that curious sort of no-language
common in translations of
Moliere.
Still this adaptation is in
itself a theatrical curiosity. It
was popular when the Indepen-
dent staged it a few years ago
and, being bright, brisk,
vigorous and mildly lewd,
should still be popular now.
It is very well acted by Kevin
Sanders, Peter Williams, Harry
Hesletine (excellent as the
advocate), Douglass Bladon,
Ronald Dunkerley, Benita
Harvey and others. -Sanders
is hardly slimy enough
for Jonson’s “parasite” and
Peter Williams hardly old
enough for Jonson’s gruesome
and cunning old miser, but
both of them have an engaging
liveliness.
Woess’s Elgar
The major work in the Syd-
ney Symphony Orchestra’s
concert under Kurt Woess last
week was the Symphony No.
1 by Elgar. Woess’s reading
generally stressed the clarity of
Elgar’s procedures and gave
polish to the various episodes
of this musical alternation
between joys and sorrows,
which epitomises the unending
struggle between the ideal and
the actual.
The staccato accompaniment
by the lower strings to wood-
winds and violas in the open-
ing movement; the swift build-
ing of the first climax; the
vigor of the violins and the
beautiful balance in the wood-
wind duets of the two-theme
trio in the second section ; the
smoothness of the unbroken
slide into the adagio ; the softly-
beginning mardh-'rhythms @f
the finale which boils into
climax and the majestic out-
pourings based on the second
subject—these showed clearly
that the orchestra was in fine
fettle, and that the Viennese
'-Woess has a rare insight into
the musical mind of an Eng-
lishman whose big works are
rarely heard, and even more
rarely appreciated, on the Con-
tinent.
Another English piece, the
four “Sea Interludes” from
Benjamin Britten’s “Peter
Grimes,” was accorded a read-
ing alive with drama and
crammed —perhaps a shade too
vividly—with orchestral color.
Dallas Haslam was soloist
in a Concerto for Harpsichord
by the 18th-century Italian
Paisiello. Graceful, melodious
and emotionless, the piece suits
well an instrument which had
its being in the intimacy of the
salon. But its tinklings, though
neatly contrived by Mr. Has-
lam, tended to be swallowed-up
in the vastness of the Sydney
Town Hall.
Schubertiad
In her playing of the
Beethoven Sonata in E Major,
Op. 109, at the Schubert
Society’s Sydney concert on
Friday night, Romola Constan-
tino was considerably handi-
capped in the first movement
by a piano with an indifferent
tone in the higher areas of
the treble. However, she
achieved glimpses of nobility
in the adagio, and the touch
of violence necessary to the
brief prestissimo was well
taken, with the intricacies of
the closely-woven, material
emerging clearly.
But it was in the splendid
set of variations which com-
prise the final andante that
Miss Constantino showed dis-
tinct improvement both in
technique and musical insight
since she went overseas for
further study.
The set of six lovely and
fragile “Moments Musicaux”
which followed were played
with a due appreciation that
these miniatures are wide-
ranging in mood and design ,
the pianist’s touch was crisp
and the feeling she imparted
to them warm.
Paree North opened with a
bracket of four Schubert lieder,
the best-sung being “My Last
Abode,” for which she artis-
tically darkened tone to catch
its sombre spirit. This
soprano, whilst secure and
accurate enough in the high
register, gets her best effects
down in the mezzo territory.
In “The Questioner” and “The
Young Nun” she used this
attractive timbre delightfully.
Intelligent inter pretation
allied to attractive tone were
put to the service of Brahms’s
“Therese,” sung with the right
degree of mischievousness;
the same composer’s “My
Love Is Green,” in which rap-
ture was well exploited ; Schu-
mann’s “Poor Peter,” with its
striking mood-change ; Rubin-
stein’s noble “The Asra,” and
Richard Strauss’s lively
“Night.”
Norma Read was an alert
and sympathetic accompanist.
Phillip Street Review
Hi diddle diddle
Bill Orr on the griddle ;
They voted to sack him at
first.
The people with tickets
Saw only the pickets,
And now the positions
reversed.
Films
“He Who Must Die”
This, at Melbourne Gros-
venor, is a French attempt by
Jules Dassin to retell the story


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
V/
Nr
A
A
O
C
Long Term
Short Term
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly
income, free of exchange.
For full details see Prospectus;
your copy available from all
Members of Stock Exchanges,
the 703 branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited & I.A.C. Branches.
ASSETS EXCEED £60,000,009
PAID UP CAPITAL £10,000,003
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART
CANBERRA
and at PROVINCIAL BRANCHES
(Established 29 Years)
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co.
Melbourne, Canberra
and Sydney
DII6N
of Christ in terms of a starving
Greek peasant community
oppressed on the one hand by
their own landlords and on
the other by their invaders the
Turks.
Everybody in it is a symbol
of somebody else. The Turkish
commander is, of course,
Pontius Pilate. The temporal
power of the Church is repre-
sented by the Greek priest,
who also stands for law and
order. The new Messiah, a
young peasant, stands for the
individual against the institu-
tion. His chief disciple is the
son of the landlord, a kindly-
enough old fellow who, how-
ever, has what the have-nots
want to share.
The landlord dies, leaving
his property to his son, who
wants to share it with the dis-
possessed. Jesus organises them
’S'nd leads them against the
village. The priest organises
the villagers, and all that
results is a bloody battle.
Jesus is handed over to the
Turkish commander, a decent-
enough fellow who, like Pilate,
only wants a quiet life. He
advises Jesus to give-up his
mad endeavor, but he refuses.
Pilate has no option but to
have him dragged by the heels
into his council-chamber and
there killed.
The disciple then takes-over,
arms his followers to the teeth
and they man the barricades,
howling defiance at their
brother-peasants. This sounds
more like Marx than Jesus.
The film makes Christ out to
be little more than a political
agitator whose practice contra-
dicts his precepts.
However, the idea is worked
out powerfully and ruthlessly,
down to the last detail. Mary
Magdalen comes into it. She
tries to seduce Jesus from his
Emission and, when she fails,
'V'dd&fties his pupil. She is well
played by Melina Mercouri.
Jean Servais, as the peasant
Messiah, is unimpressive—just
a bewildered young man with
nice feelings and good inten-
tions but little understanding.
■ij* »J 4
“Green Mansions”
As well as bringing-off some
of the best color-sequences yet
done outdoors, with emphasis
on deep jungle and waterfalls
in Columbia, Venezuela and
British Guiana, director Mel
Ferrer has here wrought an
exciting and well-acted version
of W. H. Hudson’s romantic
story.
It concerns a young Vene-
zuelan who, searching for
fabled gold-deposits to finance
a counter - attack on the
revolutionaries who have
taken-over his country, is
accepted by a tribe of natives
after proving his courage by
ordeal. Defying a tribal edict,
he enters a forbidden forest
and meets there a white girl
whom the tribe regard as an
evil spirit, setting in train a
series of events leading to
the natives trapping the girl
in a tree and firing it.
The love-idyll at the heart
of the story is presented with
sensitiveness and charm, con-
siderable credit going to
Audrey Hepburn for capturing
much of the elfin character of
the girl who has known no
life but that of the jungle and
no white man but the old
ex - bandit who adopts her.
Anthony Perkins brings fresh-
ness and youthful vitality to
the role of the gold - seeker
whose thoughts of revenge
recede as the girl’s influence
on him grows. An inexplicable
weakness is Ferrer’s allowing
a too-melodramatic approach
to the role of the ex-bandit
by the usually reliable Lee J.
Cobb.
At Sydney St. James.
❖ *x* *z*
“Chase a Crooked
Shadow”
The dragging of red-herrings
across suspense - thriller trails
can, as often as not, put an
audience on the scent as much
as off it; but the makers of
this tightly knit, if rather com-
plicated opus, score with a
pretty brilliant surprise ending.
The story has to do with a
self-exiled heiress, a missing
cache of diamonds and an im-
postor who tracks the heiress
to a remote part of Spain and,
with credentials so watertight
as to convince even the police,
claims to be the brother she
knows is dead. The audience
is kept guessing throughout as
to which of the pair is the real
villain of the piece.
Anne Baxter puts plenty of
dramatic fire into the role of
the heiress; Richard Todd
does solidly as the “brother”-
claimant who works on her
nerves relentlessly but with the
most correct of manners.
At Sydney Esquire.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BIV 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: Bff 1771—8 W 8088
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Custom Credit Corporation, Ltd.
An energetic challenger for top place-
in terms of outstandings—among the
big hire - purchase financiers, Custom
Cfedit reckoned its pile of h.-p. and
other outstandings, at £6l million on
June 30 last, to show an increase of
more than £lB million over the year.
While changes in accounting methods
may have contributed something to this
remarkable growth, there is no gain-
saying the phenomenal rate of progress
achieved by the co. since it got under
way, with the blessing of the National
Bank, in 1953. The National cemented
its ties a few months later by taking-up
a 40 p.c. shareholding, setting the pattern
for subsequent associations between
trading-banks and h.-p. financiers.
Helped along by enterprising manage-
ment and the great upsurge of h,-p.
buying, Custom Credit's outstandings
reached £ll million in 1955, £21.6 million
a year later and £42.6 million by the end
of the 1958 term, by which time the
co.’s chase after new business had added
various financing activities to its basic
h.-p. interests.
In its latest, and well-publicised, bid
for new business, Custom Credit has
revived the old practice of financing
motor-vehicle sales by means of personal
loans backed by promissory-notes, the
young offshoot, Customlife Assurance,
Ltd., being ready, no doubt, to collect
premiums arising from the required
assurance-policy on the life of the
borrower. On the insurance side, the
wholly-owned National and General
Insurance Co., Ltd., has already done
quite well out of the parent co.’s h.-p.
insurance business and outside insurance-
risks, etc.
Most of the funds put to work by
Custom Credit are raised by the issue of
first-mortgage debenture-stock or regis-
tered unsecured notes, both classes of
paper carrying attractive rates of interest.
Nevertheless, shareholders have had
ample opportunity to acquire additional
scrip at par, issues in 1955 raising paid
capital from £500,000 to £3,000,000, while
a two-for-three offering brought-in a
further £2,000,000 early last term, to
lift the all-ord. share-capital to £5,000,000.
Nominal capital will be increased to
£10,000,000 this month, but the directors
“do not contemplate any increase in
the paid-up capital in the near future. ’
Kicking-off with a 10 p.c. payout in
1954, the co. upped the div.-rate to 15
p.c. in the following year and last term
added a “buoyancy bonus” of 2\ p.c.,
to give a total distribution of \l\ p.c.
An additional £7.6 million was raised
on debentures and notes last term and
at balance-date outside borrowings stood
at £40.7 million (of which £18.4 million
was due for repayment within 12 months),
the high proportion of outside money to
share-capital helping to maintain a better -
than-average earning-rate on paid capital.
Balance-sheet movements trace the
vigorous growth of the past couple of
years, last term’s consolidated statement
(the first) once again underlining the fact
that, in common with the all h.-p. con-
cerns, the co.’s basic strength is in the
quality of its book-debts:
1957. 1958. 1959.*
Paid capita].. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £5,000,000
Share applications 201,027
Reserves .. 761,874 1,271,162 1,934,118
Life a/c surplus _ 3,005
Unexpired risks 1,512,756
Debentures,
notes .. 22,560,481 33,145,780 40,792,244
Due to subsid. 2,019,200 2,598,200 —•
Unearned income 3,237,979 4,322,539 10,996,491
Sundry creditors 361,873 703,287 1,292,822
Tax provision 547,425 486,250 801,354
Final div. . . 225,000 225,000 500,000
Suspense ' .. 1,049,086
£32,713,832 £45,953,245 £63,881,876
Freeholds '. . - 140,928
Leaseholds, fur-
niture .. 117,333 160,822 314,115
Shares in subsids. 250,000 500,000
Shares other cos. 800 3,202
Intangibles . . 45,833
H.-p. contracts,
etc. . . 30,087,304 42,692,650 61,127,801
Sundry debtors,
- tax - prepay-
ments, etc... 7,151 26,635 490,037
Cash, etc. . . 2,252,044 2,572,338 1,759,960
£32,713,832 £45,953,245 £63,881,876
* Parent and subsidiaries.
At June 30, income yet to mature (in-
cluding insurance-charges of £655,195)
was calculated at almost £ll million (up
£6.6 million). This figure represents close
to 18 p.c. of all outstandings, whereas
something around 12\ p.c. of the h.-p.
debt would, normally, be more than
adequate, and suggests that the co. has
deviated from its earlier practice of
excluding from the balance-sheet interest
on loans, etc. (as distinct from h.-p. con-
tracts). Another interesting fluctuation,
which also appears to have sprung,
largely, from alterations in accounting
procedures, was the £709,249 cut in
National and General’s provision for
unexpired risks.
As claimed, last term’s consolidated
net profit took a mighty leap, rising by
£431,048 (over 43 p.c.) to £1,423,526, at
which figure it equalled a return of 28.4
p.c. on paid capital, compared with 33
p.c. (1958) and 26.2 p.c. (1957) on the
lower capital employed in the two pre-
ceding years: —
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. —Dividend ——> serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1954.. 53,457 10 p.c. = 21,458 31,999 31,999
Prelim, exes, written-off, £6982 .. 25,017
1955.. 441,900 15 p.c. = 218,750 223,150 248,167
1956.. 632,800 15 „ „ 450,000 182,800 430,967
1957.. 780,907 15 ~ ~450,000 330,907 761,874
Tax overprovided, £40,737 . . . . 802,611
1958.. 918,551 15 p.c. .= 450,000 468,551 1,2(1,162
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
Reserve for unexpired risks brought
in on consolidation, £2,222,005 .. 3,493,167
Other additions on consolidation (less
goodwill, £45,833), £57,286 , . 3,550,453
Formation expenses, subsid., £550 . . 3,549,903
Less reduction, reserve unexpired risks,
£709,249 2,840,654
Fidelity provision written-back,
£lO,lOO 2,850,754
Added on acquisition of subsid, £1761 2,852,515
1959.-1,423,526 17£ p.c. = 875,000 548,526 3,401,041
* Consolidated reserves include reserve for unex-
pired risks and are shown after deducting intangibles,
£45,833 at 30/6/’59.
The bumper group profit was calcu-
lated after providing £938,752 (up
£318,572) for tax and £38,029 (up
£10,002) for depreciation.
In the parent’s accounts, gross income,
including a div. (value undisclosed) from
National and General, was shown at
£6.3 million (up £1.4 million), with
operating expenses £775,472 higher at
£4.2 million, the £1,314,952 net profit
exceeding that of the previous term by
£396,401.
Although the introduction of television
services in Brisbane and Adelaide may
step-up h.-p. activity in those capitals,
the volume of repayments to h.-p.
financiers, as a whole, is now running
not far below that of new business, while
stamp-tax (in N.S.W., Victoria and Tas-
mania) and increased operating expenses
are tending to trim-back profit-margins.
In the circumstances a big jump in the
national h.-p. debt seems unlikely in
the current term, with other forms of
financing and activities outside the h.-p.
field appearing to offer the greatest scope
for the expansion of outstandings and
earnings. The situation could give
Custom Credit a chance to further en-
hance its reputation for initiative and
enterprise, maintenance of the \l\ p.c.
div.-rate appearing to be well within the
co.’s capabilities.
At 18s. 9d., the f.-p. ss. ords. would
return £4 13s. 4d. p.c. from a \l\ p.c.
div., consolidated accounts at June 30
last showing a net tangible cover of
6s. lid., with a further Is. 3d. a share
represented by reserve for unexpired risks.
Cottee’s, Ltd.
Technical considerations aside, the
board of Cottee’s, Ltd., didn’t have
to dig too deeply into the co.’s treasure-
chest to find the wherewithal for this
month’s one-for-two bonus-issue. Since
augmented by additional share-premiums,
reserves at March 31 last exceeded the
then ord. capital of £268,500 by £231,507.
However, at this stage, the earning-
rate on ord. capital is of more significance


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney. Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. BL 5911. Tel. B 5900.
A. L. NEYITT & CO.
A. F. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 (4 Fines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
than past accumulations, and, on this
score, the scrip might well prove of in-
terest to investors in search of good,
second-line equities, earnings over the
past couple of years suggesting that the
co. could be left with over 50 p.c. of
its net profit intact after covering the
forecast p.c. ord. div.
Split into ss. units earlier this month,
the ords. would return £3 18s. Id. p.c.
from a p.c. div. at 165., or £4 13s. 9d
p.c. should the div.-rate be restored to 15
p.c. At this price the earnings-yield (on
last term’s consolidated net profit) would
be a satisfactory 8.8 p.c.
Formed as Cottee’s Passiona, Ltd., in
1927, Cottee’s took over an existing busi-
ness concerned with the production of
passionfruit products, including the well-
known Passiona cordial. However, the
co.’s prosperity in the post-war years has
sprung, largely, from its development as
a successful manufacturer of high-grade
jams, jellies, fruit-spreads, toppings and
various milk-bar lines, the range of pro-
ducts stretching further into the grocery-
field last term with the introduction of
packaged soups and desserts.
Registered in N.S.W., Cottee’s operates
factories in all mainland States, drawing
a portion of its raw-material require-
ments from its own citrus-orchard near
Gosford (N.S.W.) and, since the acquisi-
tion of Dyasons (Mildura) Pty., from the
Dyasons’ property at Mildura (Vic.).
Completion of the Dyasons deal, early
last term, focused considerable attention
on Cottee’s scrip, the 80s. paid for each
of the 18,500 £1 ords. in Dyasons being
applied by the Dyasons shareholders to
the purchase of 18,500 Cottee’s £1 ords.
at 80s. each. At the time the market-
value of Cottee’s scrip was around 60s.
Still active as a cordial-manufacturer,
the co., several years ago, passed-over
the bottling and aeration of soft-drinks
to associated cos. in which it retained
a substantial shareholding. Two of these
cos., Passiona Bottling Co. (Sydney), Ltd.,
and Passiona Bottling Co. (Bris.), Ltd.,
were taken back into the fold as wholly-
owned subsidiaries in the current term,
together with Cottee’s Passiona (New
Guinea), Ltd., related share-exchanges
involving the issue, at a substantial
premium, of Cottee’s scrip to a par
value of approximately £32,750. The
remaining bottling-cos. are established in
Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
With the bonus-issue, these moves
have taken Cottee’s ord. capital to
£451,877, a further £50,000 of redeem-
able prefs., held by the A.M.P. Society,
being redeemable in annual instalments
of £5OOO.
Earnings have bounded ahead since
the ords. were listed on ’Change in 1952,
covering the annual 15 p.c. payout (16
p.c. in 1954) by a particularly comfort-
able margin and providing much of the
finance needed for the steady expansion
of the co.’s plant-capacity. Despite a
13-for-17 handout in 1953 and par issues
in 1954 (one-for-three) and 1955 (23-for-
-100), the return on ord. capital rose from
26.9 p.c. in 1954 to 34.1 p.c. in 1956,
46.9 p.c. in 1958 and 47.7 p.c. last term
(on ord. capital as it stood at the end
of the year):
, Dividends
Prefs. Ord. >
5 & 8 To Re- Re-
March, Profit, p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Revaluation assets, £65,000 .. .. 157,806
Reserves capitalised, £65,000 . . . . 92,896
1953 .. 34,961 3,514 15 p.c. =22,500 8,947 101,843
1954 .. 43,893 3,514 16 „ ~24,000 16,379 118,222
1955 .. 61,727 3,514 15 „ ~30,000 28,213 146,435
5 p.c.
1956 .. 83,075 3,250 15 „ ~35,165 44,660 191,095
1957 ..100,777 3,112 15 „ ~37,500 60,165 251,260
Revaluation investments, £30,750 .. 282,010
1958 ..120,197 2,862 15 p.c. =39,350 77,985 359,995
Parent and Subsidiary.
Share-premiums, £55,500 .. .. 415,495
1959 ..130,684 2,613 15 p.c. =43,559 84,512 500,007
After jumping by close to 100 p.c. over
the three years to 1958, the parent co.’s
earnings for the year to March 31 last
were a little (£2396) lower than those
of the preceding term and it was the
inclusion of Dyasons’ figures, in the first
consolidated accounts, that pushed group
net profit to £130,684, or £10,487 ahead
of the 1958 showing. No provision
appears to have been made for tax on
the earnings of the subsidiary co.
Written after allowing £36,269 (up
£5504) for depreciation and providing
£Bl,OOO (down £5500) for taxation, the
record profit included £6935 (up £2825)
received as divs. from the bottling-cos.
and other investments.
The Dyasons takeover was responsible
for approximately £25,500 of the addi-
tional £121,417 (net) against fixed assets
at the end of the term, but variations
within the parent's accounts were the
main factor behind the major balance-
sheet movements. The continued
growth of stocks, along with the slight
reduction in book-debts tend to confirm
the levelling-out in turnover suggested
by the parent co.’s results:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.*
Pref. .. .. £60,000 £55,000 £50,000
Ord. .. .. 250,000 250,000 268,500
Reserves .. .. 251,260 359,995 500,007
Mortgage .. .. 31,700 30,148 28,525
Overdraft 26,886 66,967 145,072
Creditors!.. .. 118,853 181,383 213,953
Tax provision . . 133,856 154,235 86.160
Final div... .. 26,500 28,225 31,384
£899,055 £1,125,953 £1,323,601
Freeholds, etc. .. 207,179 223,746 296,472
Plant, etc. . . 208,305 247,380 296,071
Shares associated cos. 15,851 46,758 46,758
Stock . : . . 268,195 381,822 459,559
Debtors . . . . 197,434 223,916 223,192
Cash, etc 2,091 2,331 1,549
£899,055 £1,125,953 £1,323,601
* Parent and subsidiary,
f Including accruals, provisions, etc.
An s.extra £78,105 from the bank helped
to cover the heavier inventories, and,
with retained earnings, the outlay on
fixed assets, while the. amount against
creditors, accruals, etc., increased by
£32,570 over the year. At balance-date
working capital was £30,472 stronger,
but somewhat less liquid, at £207,731.
Absorption of the bottling cos. isn’t
likely to add greatly to earnings in the
current term, and the immediate outlook
would appear to favor a more gradual
improvement in .group earnings than that
seen in the parent’s accounts in recent
years. Nevertheless the mere main-'
tenance of last term's very satisfactory
results would be sufficient to show an
earning-rate of 28.1 p.c. on the bonus-
fattened ord. capital.
H. McKenzie, Ltd.
HPhere are approximately 44 - million
acres of natural forest in Australia.
Why then, is the national timber industry
faced by a problem of supply?
Basically because of the predominance
of hardwoods among the indigenous
species, the until recently indiscriminate
cutting of forests' and short-sighted atti-
tudes towards reafforestation, and the
high component cost of freight and
haulage unavoidable in the ultimate
wholesale price of the sawn product.
A great difference exists between the
production potential of our forests and
actual yields obtained. For example,
most introduced softwood stands produce
upwards of 200 cubic-feet of logs per
acre per year, and some patches of native
hardwoods yield up to 100 cubic-feet per
acre per year ; but, in the main, our
natural forests cut only about 6-10 c.f.
The irresponsible cutting-out, in the past,
of our close-at-hand timber sees the para-
doxical situation today where, in some
cases, it is more economical to import
from overseas than to fell our own pro-
duct and transport it to the local market.
Consumer-demand exhibits a marked
preference for softwoods because of their
inherent “ease-of-working” properties.
Satisfaction of this demand, despite ex-
tensive development of locally grown
pine-plantations, necessitates a consider-
able reliance on supplies from non-
Australian sources. Oregon pine is
especially sought after, but its availability
is strictly limited by shortage of dollars
and restrictive import-licensing.
Under these conditions, H. McKenzie,
timber-merchant, joinery-manufacturer,
kiln-drier and wallboard-distributor, with
immunisation of timber an important
adjunct, did well last term to return a
profit slightly improved at £22,787
(£22,349 in ’5B), after tax unstated and
depreciation £Bl5B (up £458). The earn-
ing-rate, in accord, rose from 14.9 p.c.
to 15.2 p.c., rating well against 1957’s
14.4 p.c. Yet it was still well short of the
21.8 p.c. in 1956. The 10 p.c. div., un-
changed since 1950 except for 1956’s 11|
p.c., absorbed £15,000 of profits, the un-
distributed balance reverting to reserves


F.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hudsonian” Brisbane
J. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
B. Charlton, J. F. Charlton, J. M. Fay, C.A.B. Marjason, J. L. Russell
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange .)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third Floor, City Mutual Building, 309 Queen St., Brisbane
Telephone: 2 2775, 2 4349 G.P.O. Box No. 61A
cover mmMmmttt
Conduct
AUSTRALIAN fifiETRSPOLSTAN'
LIFE ASSURANtt|<W3TD
Inc. in Queensland
895
DIRECTORS:
E. W. Robinson (C'man)
Col. R. S. Goward, C.B.E.
P. H. Phillips
T. Keith Smith
C. W. Rothe
S. J. Gandon
General Manager:
W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc.,
F.
General Secretary:
George Leslie, F.C.1.5.,
A.A.S.A.
HUNTER AND BLIGH
STREETS
SYDNEY
Make a SAFE Investment with
MANUFACTURERS’ (N.S.W.) FINANCE
COMPANY
A Fixed Deposit will earn
PER ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS AND OVER
INDEPENDENTLY
GUARANTEED ...
by an Indemnity Insurance Company.
The ratio of the Securities held by the Company in
relation to depositors' funds is well in excess of 150%
as at 31/3/59.
MANUFACTURERS' (N.S.W.) FINANCE
COMPANY
2nd floor, Northern House, 13/15 O'Connell Street,
Sydney. Telephone BW 2441 {lO lines)
MAIL THIS COUPON
MANUFACTURERS' (N.S.W.) FINANCE
COMPANY
Box 4790, G.P.0., Sydney
Please send me, without obligation, the Brochure and
Application Form.
NAME:
ADDRESS:
» 29^7 MI9/Z2.
which rose from £143,190 to
£154,772 (up £11,582):
Re-
Meh., Profit. ■-Dividends—, serves.
£, £ £
1953.. 16,118 10 p.c. = 11,788 44,807
To staff fund, £4OOO .. 40,807
Profit sale assets, £1492 . . 42,299
1954.. 31.321 10 p.c. = 11,788 61,832
To staff fund, £2OOO .. 59,832
Assets revalued, £34,425 .. 94,257
Reserve capitalised, £30,000 64,257
Profit sale assets, £531 . V 64,788
1955.. 35,962 10 p.c. = 13,394 87,356
1956.. 32.625.111 „ ~16,875 103,106
. Profit sale assets, £1548 .. 104,654
Assets revalued, £22,525 . . 127,179
1957.. 21,665 10 p.c. = 15,000 133,844
Profit sale assets, £3194 .. 137,038
W/off investments, £1197.. 135,841
1958.. 22,349 10 p.c. = 15,000 143,190
Profit sale assets, £3795 .. 146,985
1959.. 22.787 10 p.c. = 15,000 154,772
H. McKenzie owns three mills
around Sydney—one at Bel-
more, another at Eastwood and
a third (the largest) on the
Parramatta River at Rhodes.
The Rhodes yard covers
about 13 acres and extends
to the waterfront, so that
lighters can ferry overseas
timber direct from the
ship’s side to the mill wharf.
Only minor improvements were
effected to these properties
last year, the book-values of
freeholds and plant rising as
a consequence to £90,482 (up
£1467) and £41,669 (up £4451)
respectively:
1957. 1958. 1959.
£ £ £
Paid capital.. 150,000 150,000 150,000
Reserves .. 133,844 143,190 154,772
Notes .. 45,000 40,000 35,000
Overdraft .. 16,644 18,097 9,998
Creditors* .. 83,712 64,904 64,389
Final div. .. 15,000 15,000 15,000
444,200 431,191 429,159
Freeholds .. 88,166 89,015 90,482
Plant, etc. . . 38,628 37,218 41,669
Investments.. 7,798- 4,600 4,600
Stock . . 213,374 205,451 177,578
Debtors . . 95,657 94,586 94,743
Cash, deposits,
etc. . . 577 321 20,087
444,200 431,191 429,159
* Includes tax provisions, staff funds, etc.
The outstanding liability on
registered unsecured notes was
reduced from £40,000 to
£35,000. These notes were
issued in 1956 to Mutual Life
and Citzens’ Assurance to
alleviate a severe drain on
liquid resources. Today, in
direct contrast, liquid finances
are particularly good. Debtors
and creditors at balance-date
were, with slight variation, the
same as at the close of the
previous term. The overdraft
was halved to £9998, and cash
leapt a spectacular £19,766 to
£20,087.
This state of affairs, usually
so desirable in a business, has
been brought about by a
depletion of stocks. They have
fallen £27,873 to £177,578
and reflect an inability to pur-
chase full requirements of .
imported timbers.
Whether the, co. will increase
its profits this year is a matter
for conjecture. The building
industry at the moment shows
a reasonably healthy, dnd,
compared with last year, a
slightly increased activity. The
ratio of timbered homes to
total homes is improving.
But H. McKenzie may have
to forgo its share in this lift
if import-restrictions are not
eased. Provided, of course —
and it is most unlikely—that
consumer-preference does not
swing, towards hardwoods. In
this rather remote eventuality
the co. would be able to satisfy
orders from a good stock of
timber held by its associated
mill on the North Coast.
Meanwhile operating-expenses
continue to snowball. Labor
costs, constituting the major
element in overheads, have
risen again. Some relief may
be afforded if payroll-tax is
reduced in the approaching
Budget.
The sharemarket, recognis-
ing the co’s. problems, despite
an asset-backing of 10s.
values the ss. shares at only
6s. 3d. A 10 p.c. div. at this
price would yield 8 p.c.
Southern Motors Holdings
In 1955, Southern Motors
Holdings, Ltd., was formed
to acquire the total sharehold-
ing in Southern Motors Pty.,
issuing 720,000 fully paid ss.
shares (£180,000) for the take-
over. Public subscriptions took
paid capital up to the present
£230,000.
Southern Motors Pty. is one
of four metropolitan distri-
butors of the Holden in Mel-
bourne and is sole metropolitan
distributor of the Pontiac. It
handles the “Nasco” replace-
ment parts and accessories of
G.M.-H. The co. has a head-
office and attractive showrooms
in Lonsdale Street, and at
Blackwood Street and Flem-
ington Road, in North Mel-
bourne, has general offices,
service divisions and body-
repair divisions ; there are two
used-car lots, one at Balwyn,
the other at St. Kilda.
The term before last saw
the acquisition of freehold
properties adjoining both the


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase company
in Australia,
k
in which the Bonk of Kew South Woles
hos o 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years 7%
4 years 6Va% 3 years 6% 2 years 5Va%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3V»%
Assets exceed CSS,
Application Forms ond Prospectus
• Any A.G.C. Branch • Your Stockbroker
• Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth
Hobart
Underwriting broken: lAN POTTER & CO.
S 2
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - 27-3444
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081 1
Blackwood Street and the
Flemington Road premises.
Directors are currently con-
sidering the preparation of
plans to reconstruct and ex-
tend in these quarters.
At once a prince in the
mighty Holden empire, S.M.H.
has, since its inception, been
a consistent and virile profit-
spinner :
Parent and Subsidiaries.
\ Re-
Apr., Profit. , —'-Dividends— N serves.
£ £ £
Prelim, exp. w/off, £4996 63,141
Goodwill written-off, £3074 60,067
’56..105,444 174 P-c. = 40,250 125,261
Tax overprovided, £ll7 .. 125,378
’57..108,079 174 p.c. = 40,250 193,207
Assets revalued, £27,304 . . 220,511
Profit sale plant, £l6 .. 220,527
Tax overprovided, £4784.. 225,311
’58..119,178 174 p.c. = 40.250 304.239
Tax overprovided, £l5B .. 304,397
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 299,397
’59..100,250 174 p.c. = 40,250 359,397
Last term’s profit was £100,250
after tax £62,936 (down
£11,050) and depreciation
£4480 (down £7l). The net
figure was £19,928 below the
’5B record, but still assumed
massive proportions at 43.6
p.c. on capital. Corresponding
yields back to 1956 were 51.7
p.c., 46.9 p.c. and 45.8 p.c.
respectively,
The usual \l\ p.c. div. ab-
sorbed P rofits t 0 the . tUne
£40,250, the undistributed
balance, £60,000, heaping
already hefty reserves to
£359,397. At this figure they
l . „ r * •. i
equal 156 p.C. Ol paid Capital.
Last term, except for depreci-
, ■ , . • .• -..
ation and amortisation written-
off, there was little alteration
f th h k values of freeholds
lO me DOOK-Vaiues OI ireenoiuS,
leaseholds and plant, and
liquidity was such that £25,000
was invested in short-term
General Motors Acceptance
Corp. unsecured notes:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital. . 230,000 230,000 230,000
Reserves . . 193,207 304,239 359,397
Creditors . . 159,778 152,615 126,261
Tax provision 69,817 73,986 63,094
Final div. . . 23,000 23,000 23,000'
675,802 783,840 801,752
Freeholds . . 227,652 288,764 288,818
Leaseholds .. 1,999 1,253 667
Plant ... 25,054 30,203 27,733
Investments .. 25,000
Stock .. 130,792 125,251 242,033
Debtors .. 149,011 238,326 125,808
Cash, etc. .. 141,294 100,043 91,693
675,802 783,840 801,752
Working-capital declined by
£33,160. Stock rose by £116,782
to £242,033, and debtors fell
to £125,808 (down £112,518).
Cash slipped £8350 to £91,693
and creditors and provision for
taxation were down £26,354 at
£126,261 and £10,892 at £63,094
respectively. The firm has a
very solid financial structure,
and its liquid position remains
good. In February, 1958,
Southern Motors (Wholesalers)
Pty., a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary, was registered, its main
aim the more equitable time-
distribution of the incurrence
of sales-tax liability. It has to
date operated successfully and
to the considerable benefit of
its parent.
Present prospects augur
another good year for S.M.H.
Holden leadership remains un-
challenged, and G.M.-H. is ex-
pected to release a new model
in the near future. The vehicle-
market continues to be healthy,
but there is no defined upward
trend in new registrations, and
competition in the trade is
becoming more intense.
Operating-expenses could in-
crease, but, subject to efficient
control, need not reduce earn-
ings. If an anticipation of
lessened sales-tax rates is
realised in the forthcoming
Budget, the overall picture in
the automobile industry may
be so brightened that S.M.H.’s
already attractive profits could
be given an even brighter
sparkle.
Today’s optimistic share-
market values the ss. shares at
a rather conservative 13s. sd.
Whilst caution has always been
a traditional factor in assess-
ing the worth of motor-vehicle
scrip, it does appear, in this
instance, that the market has
failed to appreciate the possi-
bility of either an increase
in the div.-rate or an
issue of bonus-shares some
day. Net tangibles supporting
each. ss. share are healthy at
12s. 10d., and the effective
yield on 13s. sd. from a div.
of p.c. is not inconsider-
able at 6.5 p.c.
Puri Deviation
[From li. Owen]
A USTRALASIAN PETROLEUM
Co., in its latest press-
release of July 14, states that
the second deviated bore at
Puri (Papua) No. 1 location
has been deepened to 7354 ft.
(vertical depth, 7146 ft.).
The data included in this re-
lease and in the previous one
(June) allow of some deduc-
tions of interest:
(a) The average inclination
of the currently drilling bore-
hole to the vertical, from the
point of deviation (3871 ft.)
to the depth of 7354 ft., is
19deg. 53min. From 3871 ft. to
6085 ft. it was 18deg. lOmin.,
and from 6085 ft. to 7354 ft. it
is 22deg. 40min. The compara-
tively small increase of devia-
tion with depth is normal and
indicates a high degree of ex-
pert control.
( b ) The horizontal drift of
the second deviation at the
horizon corresponding to the
vertical depth of 7146 ft. has
increased to about 1185 ft. from
the original Puri hole. It will
be recalled (B. 24/6/’59) that
it was 690 ft. at vertical depth
5975 ft.
(c) Assuming that the lime-
stone surface does not depart
seriously from the horizontal,
and that the average deviation
of the bore below 7354 ft. to
that surface is 23deg., the top
of the limestone (and, it is
hoped, commercial oil) should
be encountered at a few feet
above 7700 ft. drilling - depth
and at a point horizontally
distant 1330 ft. from the
original vertical borehole, thus
forming a very valuable addi-
tional test of the potentialities
of the limestone as a petro-
leum-reservoir.


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etv. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc
THE MAORILAND BUDGET
Wellington, July 21, 1959.
Let’s try to find something
nice to say about Mr.
Nordmeyer.
He isn’t afraid of doing the
unpopular thing. That seems
true enough now. Whether it
will still seem true after next
year’s Budget remains to be
seen. It will then be only a
few months before the general
elections.
Meantime, Mr. Nordmeyer’s
second Budget has disappointed
everyone, if one can judge by
published comment.
A week or so before he pre-
sented his Budget, Mr. Nord-
meyer said it would provide for
tax-reductions “to the full
extent consistent with the eco-
nomic welfare of the country.”
People had a look at the
improvement in export prices,
the strong recovery of overseas
reserves (now almost double
what they were a year ago) and
the £32-million improvement
in the Government’s cash and
investments last year.
They came to the conclu-
sion that Mr. Nordmeyer’s tax-
reductions would be fairly sub-
stantial. They didn’t think he
would raise their hopes only
to dash them to the ground
again. They should have
known better.
The Budget provides for tax-
reductions which Mr. Nord-
meyer estimates at £l7 million
for a full year.
But it’s not really as good as
that.
There will be no reduction at
all till October. From October
the income-tax rates will be
reduced by 20 per cent, with a
maximum rebate to any one
taxpayer of £3O.
N.Z.’s financial year ends on
March 31, so that the reduction
will operate for only half of
the current year. It looks is
if, for the full year, many
people will actually pay more
tax than they did in 1958-59.
(For the first half of 1958-
59 tax was levied with an
average rebate for the year of
12| per cent, and a maximum
of £37 10s.)
The major tax-adjustments
outlined in the Budget will not
take effect till April the next
year.
Petrol, beer and tobacco
duties, which were doubled to
meet last year’s emergency, are
left untouched.
Hire-purchase regulations
are abolished, except for cars
and motor-cycles. There are
minor amendments to estate-
duty provisions.
Business and Investments
Business gets little encourage-
ment. Company-tax remains at
10s. in the £ of profits, even
though shareholders now pay
7s. in the £ on dividends.
There is one welcome pro-
vision : Bonus-share issues
made from profits accumulated
before the 1957-58 income-year
will be regarded as non-assess-
able income for tax purposes in
shareholders’ hands. The pro-
vision is limited to “a reason-
able period.”
This may mean that a
number of companies with
solid reserves will be induced
to give shareholders a tax-free
hand-out while they 'can.
Already the market is busy
chasing prospects, and some
substantial rises have -been
recorded, particularly in the
insurance section. (South
British is a hot favorite, with
reserves of £7,363,000 backing
paid capital of £2,063,000, and
an earning-rate of 46 per cent.
—double the current dividend-
rate of 22y per cent. The com-
pany’s last scrip-issue was one-
for-one in 1951.)
Under other Budget pro-
visions affecting business:
Over-recovery of depreciation on
the sale of an asset may be written-
off against the cost of a replace-
ment-asset.
It is proposed to simplify the
provision on over-distribution of
company profits for excess-retention-
tax purposes.
Amending legislation will clarify
the situation on business placed
overseas by N.Z. fire-and-accident
insurance companies.
To encourage overseas invest-
ment, companies not carrying on
business in N.Z. may be taxed at
the rate applying in the country of
residence if it is lower than in N.Z.
The Man in the Street
For the man in the street
there is nothing immediately ;
not much, if anything, in
October; and something con-
fused and indefinite in April.
From April 1, 1960, social-
security tax and income tax
will be separated. Social-
security tax will be Is. 6d. in
the pound on all income.
The exemption from income-
tax will be £9 a week (£468 a
year) for a single man and £l2
a week (£624 a year) for a
married man with a dependent
wife. There is to be an
exemption of 30s. a week (£7B
a year) for dependent children.
(At present there is a personal
exemption of £3OO a year for
single taxpayers and £5OO for
married ones, increasing by £75
for each dependent child.)
The first £5OO of taxable in-
come will be taxed at 3s. in the
pound. After that the rate will
increase by 6d. for each £lOO
until at £9OO of taxable income
the existing rates will again
apply. (At present the rate
starts at 3d. in the £1 and in-
creases by 3d. for each suc-
ceeding £lOO of taxable income
until the maximum rate of 12s.
in the £1 is reached at £3600
of taxable income.)
Concessions on social-
security tax and insurance
premiums, now built into Paye
tables, will be abolished.
The figure for aggregation
of husbands’ and wives’
incomes will be increased from
£520 to £650.
What Does It Mean?
Argument about what all
this means exactly is still going
on. No one seems quite cer-
tain. It is complicated by the
social-security tax changes.
According to the president
of the N.Z. Institute of Cost
Accountants, taxation legis-
lation in N.Z. has reached a
stage where accountants are
finding it very difficult to
interpret taxation laws, while
the private individual has little
hope of understanding his
obligations even approximately.
For the current year the
estimated tax-yield per head of
population from all sources is
£l3O 16s. 7d., against
£133 2s. 2d. the previous year.
In 1939 it was £23 9s. 2d.
A case for maintaining
taxation at a high rate as an
anti-inflationary measure could
be made out if the Government
showed a determination to
reduce its own spending. But
there is no evidence of that.
Tackled on the subject in the
House the Prime Minister, Mr.
Nash, gave the old answer,
“What would you cut?”
A courageous Government
would start with the monstrous
burden of social-security ex-
penditure.
The social-security scheme
was started with the laudable
object of helping those in need.
Since then it has become a
sort of Christmas-stocking into
which the rival political parties
pour their election bribes.
As a result it has become so
grossly swollen as to dominate
national finances.
The Government this year
expects to spend £104.8
million on social security,
against £89.5 million last year.
This increase can be attri-
buted largely to the fulfilment
of Labor’s irresponsible elec-
tion promises.
Mr. Nordmeyer himself in
his Budget pointed out that
the group of items known as
“social services” accounted for
57 per cent, of expenditure
from the Consolidated Fund.
These items are:
£ Million
Health 9.0
Public hospitals .. .. 17.5
Education 38.6
War pensions 11.9
Social Security .. .. 104.8
It would be hard to quarrel
with the first four items, but
the fifth could be heavily cut
with advantage to all con-
cerned.
Dominion Breweries, Ltd.
Dominion Breweries is
making a bonus-issue of one-
for-four by capitalising
£320,000 of share-premium
reserves.
The issue will increase paid
capital from £1,280,000 to
£1,600,000, including £40,000
in preference shares.
The issue had been expected
for a long time. The co.’s
chairman indicated a year ago
that it was on the way.
But shareholders cannot
complain about the delay. The
company is, in effect, making
the issue retrospective. It is
adding a 24- per cent, bonus to
its 10 per cent, dividend. This
means that shareholders will
receive the same amount as
they would have received if
the scrip-issue had been made
a year ago and the dividend
this year had been steady at
10 per cent.
Radio Corporation
Radio Corporation of New
Zealand, Ltd., Wellington,
which received a take-over bid
from Amalgamated Wireless
(A’asia), Ltd., earlier this year,
has now received another bid
from an English company and
expects to receive an offer from
a third company.
The English company is un-
named, but a guess would be
Pye.


HONOR BLAZER
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
“Venus and Adonis?” she asked, leering prettily, and he
felt his face burning.
Women. Hypocrites.
Maybe they weren’t
all like that—Barbara
James, for instance,
sitting near Don, that stolid
sporting hero ; Barbara talked
to you as though you were a
person, not just a biological
curiosity, a hairy adolescent.
And, perhaps, Pam, her young
sister . . . but the women of
this house, the young ones,
were hypocrites, all right.
No answer. You just had
to grin and bear it. Be strong
and silent, only not too silent,
or they'd claim you were sulky.
They would so manoeuvre you
that you’d act that way. They
were like skilful boxers, or
tennis-players, had you off-
balance, out-of-posilion, all the
time. You were just a big mug
blundering around, beating air.
So much as hint at this to
anyone and they’d reckon you
were mad. Everyone was con-
vinced they were very nice
girls. They were, too, to every-
one else, even, sometimes.
Which made it worse, made
you think sometimes it would
be better to clear-out, Queens-
land, New Guinea, anywhere,
start a new life. They could
be nice and understanding with
everyone else, but just because
they were related to you, be-
cause (the way they looked at
it) they good as owned you,
they felt entitled to put The
boot in.
Whenever they felt out-of-
sorts, there was Neville, the
family scapegoat, the whip-
ping-boy, the young idiot
brother, let’s kick him around
the kitchen, ha-ha. Verbally.
They didn’t go in for physical
violence, his family. But they
could certainly chuck the
words around.
Linda was the chief perse-
cutor. With Beatrice it was a
terrific explosion, then calm ;
she didn’t conduct a campaign.
When they combined, turned
together to rend you, it was
hell, pure hell. The ironical
thing was that he had been
looking forward to these holi-
days. He laughed abruptly,
ironically, saw Teddy Fergu-
son’s foolish eyes watching
him, coughed.
Their mother being away
made it worse. In her absence
two young queens ruled the
roost. Or, rather, Queen
Beatrice, and an energetic
understudy, Crown Princess
Linda. Power sat easier on
Beatrice, who was getting
married soon, anyway ; would
have someone else to boss. But
Linda couldn’t "resist cracking
the whip, especially when given
such an excuse . . .
Just thinking about it made
him sweat. I’m mad, he
thought, I must be mad, no
one but a madman would do
a thing like that in front of
everyone . . .
They tore into him next
morning, dying of the shame.
Even Dad. Looked at him
in a wondering sort of way,
said “Good God! How old
are you, Neville? Sixteen.
That was an intelligent thing
to do—very intelligent.” Went
on eating.
But the girls - kept it up,
yackety-yak, as though he’d
forged a cheque or got one
of their precious friends in
the family - way, something
drastic.
Till he had enough. Scraping
his chair back, marching out,
slamming the gauze-door. That
was part of their technique,
catching you at meals.
“Let him go,” Beatrice said,
cool and mocking. “He’ll be
back when he’s hungry.”
“In about five minutes,”
Linda said, cold, disdainful.
“He’s always hungry. It’s dis-
gusting.”
TTe tricked them. Rather
than go crawling back he
went down the street to Peter-
the-Greek’s, had a feed of
steak-an-eggs. Made what was
left of his pocket-money look
sick, but it was worth it.
So, one way and another,
because of a mad impulse, a
moment of weakness, they had
given him hell. All right. He
could take it. Let ’em rant and
rave and make like refrige-
rators —but why put on a
hypocrite act, like Linda, say-
ing when he came into the
room, sugar-sweet in front of
the company, “Doesn’t he look
nice in his Honor Blazer?”
Be consistent, he said
suavely, my dear good sister,
be consistent —please!
Only, of course, he said
nothing Just grunted and
grabbed a magazine, sat down.
Linda’s gang were going off
somewhere together > he hadn’t
condescended to ask where.
That galah Teddy Ferguson
was eyeing it. “Pretty hot this
weather, isn’t it, ha-ha?” Of
course it was hot. It was heavy
stuff, really a winter blazer.
Laugh till you split your boof-
head, you stupid bastard.
“What’s- it for?” Ken Lane
asked. Unlike the others, Ken
Lane was a stranger. He had
gone to school with Don
James, and was now at the
university, doing something
which obliged him to talk with
a plum in his mouth. He was
spending part of the long vaca-
tion with Don, out at Bam-
doorlie, and, apparently, had
a languid eye on Pam ; and
she on him.
“Football. Athletics,” Neville
said, paused. “Boxing.”
He felt a bit funny, talking
about it in front of Don, be-
cause Don, although you
wouldn’t think it, seeing him
sitting there half-asleep, had
been the G.P.S. wonder-boy a
while back, owning the original
blazer of many colors. He’d
been home for a year now, pre-
tending to work for his father,
representing the district in
football, cricket, tennis.
Although he hadn’t struck his
G.P.S. form in football—
Neville didn’t take enough
interest in cricket and tennis
to know how he rated there—
he was still the best five-eighth
around these parts, and he still
trailed the clouds of his school
glory.
Neville couldn't make up his
mind about Don. He wasn’t
stuck-up, but he certainly
wasn’t talkative. Maybe he
was stupid—maybe not. But
he could play football. The
reason he didn’t look as good
here as he had in Sydney
wasn’t, as some said, because
he was too light, or because
of the difference between
Union and League, it was
simply that he was a shade
too good.
He’d been used to playing
in a smoothly functioning foot-
ball machine, the best his
school had produced for many
years, and the local rugged
individualists bewildered him.
When he made an opening and
reverse-passed he knew some-
one would be there to take it.
Here,, there was a fair chance
the man inside, the half or the
lock, would be shaping-up to
someone.
Don’s thickset body stirred.
“Ken here’s a bit of a boxer,”


ON CALL
A full 6% per annum interest with security
makes this on-call cash deposit a wise
investment!
RATES FOR TERM DEPOSITS
10% PER ANNUM .. .. 5 YEARS
9% ii ■■ • • • • 4 ■■
8% ii ii • • • • 3 ii
7.1_0/_ •}
2 /0 11 ■» • • • • * ■■
7% || II • • • • 1 II
We certify that there was £l9B of consolidated tangibfo
assets to cover each £lOO of consolidated liabilities excluding
deposits, at 31st December, 1958. HENSON, GATES AND CO.,
PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS.
SECURED BY THE AUSTRALIA WIDE ASSETS OF CARAPARK
For full particulars, so* your broker, 'phono LM 0391 or send
in this coupon to the Secretary.
Caka/MtSl# t general finance ltd.
681 Parramatta Road, Leichhardt, N.S.W.
Please send me 0 brochure
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 29/7
he said in his pleasant, drawl-
ing voice. “Still keep it up,
Ken?”
“Not much,” Ken said, in
his plummy way. “Too
exhausting. Too many interest-
ing things to do.” He gave
Pam a bright, lady-killing
glance, but he wasn’t quite at
ease.
Don sat there, four-square in
the armchair, staring stolidly,
and there was something in
Don that bothered Ken, that
dimmed his light. Neville
could understand that. Prob-
ably if he’d gone to the same
school, Don would have
seemed some sort of tribal
idol, too. He hadn’t, and he
could penetrate the smoke.
Don had what the school-
masters called character. You
could see it through the smoke
of adulation dills like Teddy
Ferguson produced, and this
Ken, half-reluctantly, sus-
tained, like a rock. And he was
a good footballer. But that
didn’t make him a genius.
To hell with Don James,
anyway; why worry about
him ? Because he’s got a
flasher blazer, and isn’t wear-
ing it? Or . . .
Of course, that was itr Be-
cause, although no one has
said it in so many words, that’s
what they’d like. That’s the
pattern of what they’d like
about the house. A brother
and son they could be proud
of, not one who, like the other
night out at Terry’s, distin-
guished himself as the galah
of all time.
Well, they wouldn’t get it.
This was worse than just push-
ing you around. It was —hell,
it was an insult. Not that
there was anything wrong with
Don ; he’d take all that back.
He wasn’t stupid, he was all
they said, he was a little tin-
god on wheels. But, that, to
want to make you over into
something else, that was
enough to make you scream
inside, when you saw it. Make
you want to lash-out and
knock a few silly faces. Only,
you were right to fight it. You
knew that.
Aloud, he said, diffidently,
looking at Ken: “While you’re
here —I mean, when you come
into town some time, if you
feel like a spar, I’ve got some
gloves . . .”
Ken gave a full-lipped smile,
patted his fair hair. He’s like
a curled and perfumed bull,
Neville thought, like that
Greek wrestler in one of Donn
Byrne’s books, making a
triumphant progress down a
street of Athens. That neck,
those shoulders, the la-di-dah
airs . . . All he needs is a rose
behind his ear.
“Oh, I’m not that keen,”
Ken said. He doesn’t take me
seriously, he thinks I’m a
kid . . .
Beatrice and Terry were
going, a good-looking couple.
Consider them dispassionately
and you had to admit they
were both pretty girls, Linda
and Beatrice. Come right
down to it, you were proud
of them. What got on your
goat was the one-way traffic
in admiration . . .
Terry paused, laughing, talk-
ing, blue eyes shining in
tanned lean face, making an
exit of it. All eyes were on
him, as usual. What he said
didn’t matter very much, but
he could make people laugh.
The dashing young squatter.
Up came the squatter, mounted
on his thoroughbred . . . Acting
the part so thoroughly that it
seemed almost phoney,
although it wasn’t. But he was
mounted, usually, on a big,
flash car, and the thoroughbred
was expected to make a killing
at Randwick . . .
“Come on.” Beatrice tugged
Terry’s arm. Bossy.
'T'hey went, taking some
A energy of high spirits with
them. He pretended to read,
studying Ken, measuring him,
a habit he had fallen into
lately, seeing almost every
male as a potential opponent
in a fight, almost every girl
as a possible partner in a some-
what blurred felicity.
Not much came of these
daydreams; he didn't go
around picking fights, or
picking-up girls. If he did
pick a fight the procedure was
stylised as a challenge to a
duel; indirect, even, he
admitted, sneaky. As for girls,
there hadn’t been much chance
of that sort of adventure at
school; listening to other
fellows’ tales, lies, most likely.
He’d have known a lot more
about girls if he hadn't gone
away to school . . .
Pam dimpled at something
that galah Ken was saying.
He’d had half a crush on Pam
himself, a while back. Only,
of course, being one of Linda’s
gang, she was taboo.
“What are you reading,
honey?”
MORNING
From the fusion of woollen sleep, finning
To anticipations calling from the past,
Through involvement in hazed rooms of dreaming,
1 found a light whose presence was so vast
I rubbed my eyes and cried out with delight,
Is it morning, last and best of my dreaming,
This so brilliant peace that pours on my sight?
And the joy of my flesh ran with affirming,
But anticipations, curtly greeting,
Assembled me to a smaller passion ;
Through the sweet smell of toast I was meeting
Tomorrow, steeped in yesterday’s fashion,
Conceiving great stratagems and hoping
That perhaps in the world’s reluctant surmise
I would be made, but morning was beating
At the windows its huge and glittering prize.
And I left; the trees upgathered like a sea,
All morning arose and itself exceeded.
In the swirling light it was enough to be.
The wind had turned; no future was needed.
victoria.
NOEL MACAINSH.


He looked up, startled.
Myrna Hargraves was sitting
on the arm of his chair. She
was small, dark, well-rounded.
He could have picked her up
off the floor with ease, only
. . . she was a woman of 18
or 19.
She didn’t really belong in
this gang. Her people had
a property in the district, but
lived most of the time in
Sydney, and she had just re-
turned from a trip to Europe
with her mother. The girls,
Linda, Barbara, Pam, Joyce
Dean, weren’t mad about her.
He had heard them laughing
about her, saying she chased
the men. They were probably
jealous. Any man in his right
mind would chase Myrna
Hargraves. He wouldn’t mind
himself, in a different setting,
with a few years up.
Her closeness deprived him
of the power of speech. He
could only point. She leaned
over, hair brushing his cheek,
long eyelashes, the capricious
curve of eyebrows, so close
each fine black hair was dis-
tinct, the white curve of
bosom.
“Oh, darling, I’m sorry!”
She brushed away the ash she
had dropped on his trousers,
let her little white hand rest
a moment on his brown hand,
smiled into his face. He
blinked rapidly.
Of course, it was only a
game. Still . . . She was chat-
tering away, asking him about
school, and he found words to
answer her. From English to
Shakspeare’s plays, she was
going on the stage, had a few
parts already in the little-
theatres, Shakspeare . . .
Suddenly, out of the blue,
she asked him if he had read
The Sonnets. Yes, he said
warily. Venus and Adonis ?
she asked, leering prettily, and
he felt his face burning, and
felt furious with himself, and
that only made it worse. Yes,
sure, why not? But he felt
uncomfortable, as though he
had been detected doing some-
thing improper, and against
his will lines and passages
came into his head, rocked and
rolled there, until he was terri-
fied he would shout them out.
She softly declaimed them,
the exact lines, looking at him
steadily with her bold, black
eyes. She was a witch. She
terrified and enchanted him.
He didn’t dare look to see if
anyone was listening.
Then she wandered off,
began to talk vivaciously to
Don, and he remembered the
time.
npHE pictures had started, but
the Corelli car wasn’t
parked in the usual place, out-
side Peter-the-Greek’s. He
decided to wait. He saw Bluey
Brown and asked him to have
a milk-shake.
“Flash blazer,” Bluey com-
mented, inside the cafe.
Neville shrugged, as much as
to say, just something to wear,
made a gurgling sound, suck-
ing up the creamy dregs
through the straw.
“Have another,” Bluey
offered.
“Don’t mind if I do.”
Bluey made him feel guilty
but complacent, too. Bluey
was a measuring-stick. Before
he went away to school Bluey
had given him a father of a
hiding. At school he had
taken-up boxing seriously, just
how seriously no one would
ever know. So, one day,
elaborately casual, he had sug-
gested to Bluey that they have
a spar. It was well planned.
They were alone at the house ;
he had invited Bluey around
on some excuse or other.
It wasn’t for revenge. He
just had to know. It was very
important.
What happened was an anti-
climax. Bluey, hot-tempered
and strong, was a sucker for
a straight-left. You just kept
poking it out and Bluey kept
running into it, his face getting
redder and redder, until finally
you. saw the blood, and felt
ashamed, and called a halt.
He had to know. But, think-
ing about it, it seemed a cold-
blooded thing to do, because
Bluey was a decent bloke, hot-
tempered, but never a bully.
And he’d more or less culti-
vated Bluey, deliberately, for
the purpose of that test.
Panic when it seemed as
though Bluey’s nose would
never stop bleeding, flying
around with ice and towels —
there’d been a row about the
towels later —very solicitous,
pressing cold coke on him,
almost fawning on him, in a
reaction of guilt.
He’d followed the same
snake routine with Terry. But
Terry, as a potential brother-
in-law, was a bit overpower-
ing. A man had to do some-
thing.
Terry really could do most
of the things he said he could
do. He could shear, he could
break-in horses, he was a good
bush-mechanic. He could pilot
a plane and prune a fruit-tree,
and tell funny stories. When
his father died in a bad year
he left school, sold the stock
on the place to pay probate,
coaxed enough money out of
the bank to buy a couple-of-
thousand old ewes, kept them
alive till it rained, made a go
of it against the predictions of
all the shrewd-heads in the
district. After that, he’d never
looked back, so his superb
self-confidence was perhaps
justified. But when he began
to take a big-brotherly interest,
began to preach a bit and point
morals, it seemed time to act.
It was simple. Pick the time
and. place. Lead the conversa-
tion around to boxing.
Humbly ask for instruction on
some of the finer points.
Then, the gloves on, let things
take their course.
But Terry had surprised
him. Sitting there on the
ground, with a cut lip, he had
laughed. He laughed when he
told the story, against himself,
touching it up, exaggerating it.
In a way, it had been Terry’s
victory. After that he
respected Terry.
A ll the same, Terry had
given him some bad
moments. He was quick and
strong, and > a few punches to
the body felt as though they
were going right through, clean
to the other side.
In anything else, a wrestle,
for instance, he was sure Terry
would have won. Half-way,
he had that sinking feeling that
what they said was true. Even
if you’re big, and well-trained,
there’s a difference between the
muscular strength of 16
and 25.
He’d boxed with men before,
but never flat-out. It had been
necessary to work his private
trick, the one he had learned
after he became sick of being
the loser all the time. It was
a mental trick, and it only
worked in this one sport. It
didn’t apply, for instance, in
football ; that wasn’t personal
enough. You tried hard, but
you never pushed yourself
beyond a certain reserve. In
this, you did. The trick itself
was very simple. You just said
to yourself, 1 won't be beaten
if it kills me. Since you didn’t
want to die, you kept going
until something happened.
You might be outpointed, or
you might be knocked out, but
there was no chance of you
lying down. In fact, you
mostly won.
It wasn’t the sort of thing
you could talk about ; people
would reckon you were mad.
And it took a lot out of you v
For that reason, although you
boxed a lot, you didn’t go into
fights lightly. There was
always the old fear there to
trigger you, so each time was
almost as bad as the first time.
Your self-respect had to be
pretty deeply rooted in this
particular skill, perhaps your
only real skill, to take it that
seriously.
Because, of course, it all
flowed from that. The Honor
Blazer and the rest. Forced
into it, in the first place,
because you were afraid, and,
being afraid, tor some per-
verse reason found yourself in
fights. Where another kid, less
fearful, would give way, you
couldn’t do it without cringing
inside. So, fright bracing you,
obstinate as a sheep, you
waited to be butchered.
Finally, after weary practice,
found to your delighted sur-
prise you had a kind of rough
skill ; kept trying ; and then,
one thing following another,
from being a no-hoper at all
sport, became not bad at
several. Even at school-work,
carried on by the new confi-
dence, you became, in time,
not bad. But you never forgot
the key to it, the mainspring.
That was why it was important.
It was. all very private,
covered by layer upon layer of
camouflage. You pretended
not to take it too seriously.
There was a great parade of
modesty, and a pose of
pacifism.
Ross Barber, of all people,
saw through him. Ross, every-
thing he was not, a natural
sportsman, relaxed, with, he
had always supposed, a happy
absence of brains. Wore his
FISHERMAN’S SONG
There I would cast my fly
Where the swan banks and
follows,
Though stars are foxed, the
dry,
The vanished river's shallows —
And all of tinie in her cry.
By rock and silted bend
Where the buried river ran
And grass sings in the wind,
I ■ would follow the swan
To the reach of her mind —
Till rock and mirage break
And stars double and float
Upon the quiet lake.
'There I’d put out my boat
As the herons wake,
And tossing to the floor
An empty spindle,
I’d rest upon an oar
Watching the dawnlight kindle
Christ’s fire on the lake shore.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL


J
QUpJ
-T3)
.1
l M.
m
WOLFE S ?
By jove sir! You’ll enjoy
the bright difference of
drinks mixed with Wolfe’s
Schnapps. It’s more
than a gin spirit, it is
a distillate of Malted
Barley containing not
only an infusion of
Juniper but also of
i other aromatic
Bk herbs and berries j
Lfound in no
L other spirit.
be damned
if I’ll
buy less than
the finest
spirit...
WOLFES
m
• TRY WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS WITH
TONIC AND
Lemon, add ice
TO TASTE.
5 oz. bottles, 6/3
13 oz. bottles, 14/-
26 oz. bottles, 25/9
wolfe s mmm the gin spirit with a difference
ONE A DAY —FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
8649
hat pushed back, smoked,
broke all the rules on the field,
passed with one hand, but a
heaven - sent outside - centre.
Ross, watching him pounding
the heavy bag in the gym. one
day, said, “I bet you’re sweat-
ing on some of the locals when
you go home; acting meek
and mild and just sweating on
them, I bet.”
He hadn’t liked it. Hadn’t
liked Ross seeing through him
that far. And it wasn’t the
whole truth. Because the
meek-and-mild business was
important, too. Something
bound-up with the blazer and
the rest. Wearing it for the
first time, walking to church
service that night, he’d felt a
sense of, well, history. There
was a pattern, set by the boys
who had been big-shots when
he came to the school, a kind
of superior toughness that
scorned crudity. They hadn’t
been brawlers. It was very
strong, that feeling ; it hadn’t
survived the trip home.
“Going to the pictures?”
Bluey shook his crew-cut
head. “Going to the dance.”
Neville looked at _ him
enviously. He couldn’t dance.
He didn’t smoke, either —bad
for the wind. Bluey lit a
cigarette, exchanged ready
banter with a couple of girls
ordering chocolate - malted.
Neville didn’t recognise them.
Bluey knew all the girls. Bluey
was a citizen of the town, not
a sort of visitor.. He wished
he hadn’t worn the blazer —it
was too hot.
He saw the Corelli car pull
in, and said “See you later,
Blue.” He strolled across, said
“Hullo!” in a surprised voice
to Trevor and Dulcie Corelli,
admitted he was going to the
pictures, too, went in with
them.
Zooming out at interval, walk-
ing across to Peter-the-
Greek’s with Trevor and
Dulcie, he talked to Trevor,
watched Dulcie. He had heard
the name Corelli all his life,
seldom thought of it as
foreign. The Corellis had been
in the district for generations.
But tonight, looking at Dulcie’s
long neck and shadowed eyes,
it pleased him to think of her
as foreign, mysterious.
She was mysterious, this
quiet, slender girl, and he
thought she liked him. It had
been going on for a year now,
every holiday, this stealthy
courtship. The fiction was that
he and Trevor were friends.
So, through Trevor, he
talked to Dulcie, and occasion-
ally she rewarded him with a
fleeting smile. It was a fragile
relationship which gave him
a weirdly complicated pleasure.
He had written to her from
school, twice. The first letter
wasn’t answered. Then he
received a long letter, mainly
about the Lake poets. After
that he took pains to drag
some reference to poetry into
the conversation, to Trevor’s
annoyance. Trevor didn’t care
for poetry.
“Who do you think you’re
pushing! ”
Neville looked down at a
broad, angry face. Fatty
Bennett. “Sorry, Fatty.”
“So you should be,” Fatty
snarled.
Neville smiled briefly,
steered Dulcie around the
squat, ridiculous figure. Fatty
Bennett!' i
“What will you have,
Dulcie? Trevor?” He ordered,
was aware of Fatty muttering
behind his back, paid no
attention.
Going out, Fatty was wait-
ing for him, arms akimbo.
“Hey you!”
He wasn’t going to waste
time with Fatty. Not when
he was escorting a lady. He
turned away slightly, and
Fatty came panting after him:
“Hey you! What’s the idea?”
“Nothing, Fatty,” he said,
without turning his head.
“Nothing at all.”
“You weren’t trying to pick
me?”
“Wouldn’t dream of it.”
“Well that’s all right.
Because if you were, you
picked the wrong man. I
(Continued on page 45)


Will He Arrive On Time?
Mr. Twenty-million
A few months ago the population
of Australia passed the 10-million
mark. The Commonwealth Stati-
stician placed the date of this
significant event, “on the nearest possible
calculation,” as March 10. He made no
attempt to name any individual as our
10-millionth citizen, so no newsreel
cameramen went to migrant-ship
or labor-ward to record the
event for posterity. This is a pity,
as Mr. (or Miss) Ten-million will have
to go through life without knowing the
distinction that is really his (or hers).
And if the Commonwealth Statistician
can’t name him, what hope has anyone
else of doing so?
Assuming Mr. Ten-million was a
migrant, was he of Dutch origin?
Italian? Lebanese? Stateless? Did he
come by sea or by air? Assisted or at his
own expense? Was he British? Is he
happy here or has he already gone back
to his homeland disgruntled?
/"%F course, if it so happened that he
wasn’t a migrant at all, but arrived
in this country through natural causes, his
appearance and peculiarities are not so
difficult to imagine, though his identity
still remains a mystery. He—the odds
are slightly in favor of his being a boy—
would weigh about seven or eight pounds
and be sound in wind and limb. There
is a slight possibility—about one chance
in 50 —of his having been one of twins ;
a very slight possibility that he was
a triplet ; no chance at all of his being
a quad or a quin. His expectation of
life is 66, which means that with only
normal luck he can count on still being
on deck in the year 2025, by which time,
at current rates of increase, he will have
welcomed Mr. Fifty-million.
Sixty-six years is perhaps rather a
long way to look ahead, particularly
when one is talking of current trends
continuing. The year 1987 would be a
better year to examine the year by
which the present population will have
doubled and in \Vhich Mr. Twenty-
million will be born.
Troubling a nation’s population in 28
years is quite a formidable task.
Australia’s latest double took 41 years
to achieve, as the five-million-mark was
passed in 1918. The previous double
spanned 35 years from 1883 to 1918.
In each of these periods both
the birthrate and migration were
seriously affected by depression and war,
and these two factors could play Old
Harry with calculations based on current
trends. If they do, Mr. Twenty-million
will have to postpone his arrival till a
more favorable point in time. If, how-
ever, these unpleasant interrupters of
orderly progress stay their hands, 1987
should see the present population of Aus-
tralia doubled.
In the past decade, with a revived
birthrate and a high level of immigration,
the population increase has averaged 2\
per cent, per annum, a rate which was
never maintained by the United States
even in its boom period. Side by side with
this growth in population has proceeded
development of industry and commerce,
so that at no time during the period has
there been serious unemployment or
distress. If the rate of growth is to be
continued for the next 28 years it is
obvious that development must keep
pace with it. Mr. Ten-million and Mr.
Twenty-million may be statistical entities,
but the difference in the population
figures they typify represents real people
who will have to be fed, clothed and
housed. Jobs will have to be found for
them ; schools will have to be built for
their children and hospitals for their sick.
Will we have the resources in 1987 to
meet the needs of 20-million people?
In 1918 we certainly didn’t have the
resources to support 10-million, but
development grew with growing needs.
'T'he following tables show a comparison
-®- in resources and output between
the periods when Australia had a popu-
lation of five-million and 10-million
respectively. As 1918 was a war-affected
year, figures for 1920 have been used for
the earlier year; 1958 represents
today:—
Livestock.
1920. 1958.
Sheep 77.900.000 150,000,000
Cattle 13,500,000 17,300,000
Horses 2.415.000 700,000
Pigs 764,000 1,300,000
Production.
Wool (lb., greasy) 547.500,000 1,530,000,000
Butter (lb.) .. . . 208,080,000 192,000,000
Cheese (lb.) .. .. 24,160,000 44,800,000
Bacon & ham (lb.) 50,250,000 35,200,000
Area Under Crops.
Acres 15,070,000 19,400,000
It should be obvious from these figures
that physical primary production did not
increase enough between the two dates
to support a doubled population without
lowering living-standards. This would
certainly be so if living were merely a
matter of gnawing our way through our
crops and meat and dressing ourselves
in skins and hides. But in both periods
the bulk of our primary production was
raised for export, and the higher prices
of the second period helped in part to
compensate for the lowered ratio of out-
put in relation to population. The total
(money) value of primary production in
1920 was £283 million. In 1957 it was
£1032 million. But even this increase,
made largely fictitious by inflation,
would not have been enough to enable a
doubled population to continue import-
ing manufactured goods on the scale to
which it was accustomed in 1920.
The answer, of course, is given by the
tremendous growth of secondary
industry between the two dates:
Manufacturing Industry.
1920. 1958.
No. of factories 16,291 53,992
Employees.. .. 376,734 1,073.400
Wages .. .. £52.115.558 £929,398,000
Value of output £292,536,608 £4,275,448,000-
The reliable figures there are the number
of employees. By far the greater part of
this industrial development has taken
place since World War 11, during the very
years in which population-increase has
been stepped-up beyond the levels of
earlier periods. The two things are vitally
connected ; neither could have occurred
without the other.
A mong the chief indicators of industrial
expansion are the production-figures
for coal, steel and electricity. On this
score there is no point in making com-
parisons between the present time and
1920. At that time the steel industry had
barely been launched ; coal had not yet
come up against the competition of fuel-
oil, and the total electrical output of
Australia was roughly equivalent to that
of the smallest mainland State today.
A better picture is given by the figures
for the prewar year 1939 and 1958.
Between those two years production of
black coal increased by 64 per cent.,
brown coal by 240 per cent., pig-iron
by 106 per cent., steel by 166 per cent,
and electricity by 322 per cent.
'T'here is every reason to hope
that the current rate of develop-
ment can be maintained. If it isn’t,, then
either Mr. Ten-million and his contem-
poraries will have to accept a drop in
living-standards or they will have to post-
pone the arrival of Mr. Twenty-million
beyond 1987.
That would be unfortunate for Mr.
Ten-million. —assuming him now to
be the infant born on March 10, 1959 —■
as 1987 is to be an important year in his
life, quite apart from being the year
in which he welcomes Mr. Twenty-
million. It is the year in which he enters
into matrimony. His won’t be an Easter
wedding. Being a statistical entity he
will have to stick to the rules laid down
for his kind and will therefore marry
at the age of 28.78 years—which means
that he’ll walk down the aisle in Christ-
mas-week, 1987, with a girl 3.21 years
younger than he.
It would be pleasant to think that
Mr. Twenty-million could be Mr. Ten-
million’s son, but statistics won’t allow
the possibility. The new doubler will
already be several months old when the
parsoq ties the knot round the old
doubler’s neck.


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Big Cups
The Davis brothers, Charles
(V.R.C.) and George
(V.R.C.), have issued their
assessments for the Melbourne
and Caulfield Cups. Naturally,
Tulloch heads both lists, 10.4
at Caulfield, 10.3 at Fleming-
ton, respectively 131 b. and
121 b. over the scale. His lowly
position on betting-charts
suggests he has little chance of
running in either race.
• • • •
The handicappers differ
slightly in their views of the
rising four-year-olds. Charles
Davis has given N.Z. galloper
Lawful (Great Northern Derby
winner) top marks, 9.2, which
is lib. more than Sir Blink’s
weight and 21b. more than Earl-
wood’s. George Davis has
grouped the three top colts on
9.2 (w.f.a. for a four-year-old
in the spring is 9.0). With 8.11,
Up And Coming has beaten
the scale.
Chicola, with her hat-trick of
classic wins (V.R.C. Oaks and
the St. Leger double), had to
head the rising four-year-old
mares, and she has received
justice with 8.9, exactly w.f.a.
As three-year-olds, Tulloch
and Sir Blink won the last two
Caulfield Cups, thereby shatter-
ing the illusion that the race
was beyond colts. This year
Fine And Dandy (7.9, Caulfield
Cup only) is rated the best
rising three-year-old, though
only lib. better than Travel
Boy. Perouse (who beat Travel
Boy in Melbourne) seems well
treated with 7.4.
Yemen (N.Z.), who would
have won last year’s Melbourne
Cup with anything like a good
run, has gone up 31b. to 9.0
(both Cups). Trainer Ivan
Tucker, is reported dissatisfied
with Supertax’s 8.11 (both
Cups), but the bookies still have
Supertax favorite for the Mel-
bourne Cup. No horse seems
to have got in better than Syd-
ney Cup winner On Line, who
has 8.8 (both Cups). Punters
who like to risk an early double
could do worse than coupling
Up And Coming with On Line.
• • • •
The Australian Hurdle, at
Caulfield next Saturday (first
leg of the V.A.T.C.’s important
jumping double), dates to 1892.
Currently it is run over 2 miles,
5 furlongs, but down the years
the distance has varied from
2! to 4 miles. National winners
invariably get a stiff penalty,
but that has not prevented
half-a-dozen of them from
completing the double, includ-
ing Pooley Bridge, who won
the Australian Hurdle in 1936
with 12.5 —a weight-carrying
record for the race.
Next Saturday’s event looks
a match between National
winner Hillwood and Gay
Ranick, who toppled in the big
“There's no doubt about Dad—he has a Way with
animals."
Flemington race. With 91b. the
better of the weights, Gay
Ranick may win from his rival.
• • • •
With 49! winners, Ron
Hutchinson won the Mel-
bourne jockeys’ premiership.
Surprisingly, it was the first
time “Hutchy” had headed the
list. He began riding in 1943,
found winners elusive until
1945, then won the Australian
Cup, and since has kicked-
home a good share of winners
every season, among them no
fewer than 59 " Cup-winners,
most of these at provincial
meetings—the big fish
(Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups) having so far got away.
He rates his win on Pandie Sun
in the Olympic Year Cup “the
thrill of his career.” Geoff
Lane was runner-up to Hutch-
inson with 43| wins, a
wonderful performance for an
apprentice, and the fifth year
in a row that Lane has been
leading apprentice. With 11
wins, Brian Smith headed the
jumping riders —for the fourth
year in succession.
It was appropriate that
Hutchinson should win the
Sunset Handicap at Moonee
Valley last Saturday, final race
for the year. His mount was
the four-year-old mare Regal
Wench, who is by Atout
Maitre from Winval. Surpris-
ing, though, to see her win over
a mile; she had previously
shown her best in much longer
races, among them her excel-
lent second to Gaybao in the
2 miles 1 furlong Australian
Cup.
• • • •
As noted here before,
Moonee Valley is a track with
its own peculiar pitfalls for
punters ; but they never learn.
Latest example was their
sending Tranquil Glow out
favorite for the A. V. Hiskens
Steeple, having apparently for-
gotten that the big-striding
Helios gelding had fallen at
his previous two Valley runs.
Once again Tranquil Glow
made a blunder, and had to be
pulled out of the race. On
the other hand, the winner,
Recurrent, who is nowhere
near as good a steeplechaser
as Tranquil Glow, has always
reserved his best form for the
Valley. Recurrent, a six-year-
old by Jam bo from Sleepy
Current, earned a start in the
Australian Steeple, but,
although he will drop 61b. to
10.4, he is unlikely to run
nearly as well at Caulfield.
There’s no doubt the aver-
age racegoer talks through his
pocket. At Flemington a
fortnight ago Resotto was the
victim of a most unpleasant
demonstration when he ran
third in the Doutta Galla
Hurdle. This page pointed out
that the main reason for his
failure that day was his hard
run in the National the previ-
ous week. Last Saturday Re-
sotto showed that the fort-
night’s rest had brought him
back to his best by cantering
home in the Mia Mia Hurdle.
And, as Resotto had been
backed-in from 9 to 4 to 6 to
4 for the Mia Mia, his victory
duly brought a resounding
burst of applause! There isn’t
a better jumper racing in Mel-
bourne than Resotto, and the
way he soared over the hurdles
last Saturday with 11.5 on his
back was worth going a long
way to see. Unfortunately, he
has not been entered for the
Australian Hurdle.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Feature of the racing at
Rosehill last Saturday was the
impressive win by New
Zealander Up And Coming in
the Flying, for which he
started at 3 to 1 ; third favorite,
in a field of nine. Apart, from
Gold Stakes (favorite), who
finished a distant third, there
wasn’t another horse of
quality in the field, but, even
so, Up And Coming’s perform-
ance was a very promising one.
Up And Coming, who won
very easily, was having his first
outing in Australia, and it was,
in fact, his first appearance
since winning the N.Z. St.
Leger on March 30. Trainer
Maurice McCarten did a tip-
top job in getting the three-
year-old so fit for this first-up
win. Up And Coming has 13
New Zealand wins to his
credit, at from half-a-mile to
1| mile, with six of those wins
scored as a two-year-old. His
present-season successes have
included, in addition to the
St. Leger, the N.Z. Derby and
the Trentham, Ellerslie and
Avondale Guineas.
Raced by owner and
.breeder of trotters Noel Simp-


son, who’s a noted authority
on the harness-sport, and who
also bred Up And Coming,
this exceptional youngster has
8.13 in both the A.J.C. Epsom
and Metropolitan, 8.11 in the
Caulfield Cup and 8.13 in the
Melbourne Cup. A gelding,
he’s by Resurgent (imp.) from
Cash And Carry by Paper
Money (imp.) from Gold Sand
by Psychology (imp.). His
best-known relatives in Aus-
tralia have been Courtship,
winner of six two-year-old
races, five of them in succes-
sion, and Stamen, a successful
Melbourne middle - distance
galloper some years back.
Cash And Carry didn’t race.
She was a 17-year-oldster
when Up And Coming was
foaled, and this one has been
her only claim to fame at the
stud. Up And Coming has
now already won £15,595 for
his 14 firsts.
Despite the fact that three-
year-old Bold Way had finished
good seconds at his two pre-
vious starts, he went out at
12 to 1 for his easy win in the
First Parramatta Stakes at
Rosehill—and was ridden by
Sellwood, too! Explanation
was clear enough: Billy Cook
was having his last ride in
the event, and the crowd
wanted nobody but Cooky and
his odds-on mount Che Sara.
Maybe they reckoned it was
cooked for Cooky, though Che
Sara did have form enough.
As it turned out, Che Sara
couldn’t handle the soft going,
and finished a remote fifth.
Cooky could have had other
mounts, but he’s always been
a sensible little chap, and he
there and then gave the game
away for good.
S.T.C. chairman Bill Long-
worth handed suitable presents
to Cook, to leading jockey of
the season R. Selkrig and to
runner-up N. Sellwood.
Selkrig clinched the premier-
ship with his win on outsider
Revived in the second race,
after Sellwood had looked 'like
pegging him back with his sur-
prise win in the opening event,
on Bold Way, and with the
Up And Coming mount
coming up. There was nothing
in it, 67-66.
Bold Way won so well that
he should soon win again. He’s
by Near Way (imp.) from
Betrothal by Ajax from Pre-
lude (imp.) by Coronach
(imp.). The dam is a sister
to Lochbuie, an Adelaide
winner in good company. An
interesting winner in the geld-
ing’s family, El Greco (17
firsts), raced with success in
Italy, wins including the
Italian St. Leger.
Wiggle’s brother, Manrego,
easy winner of the MacArthur
Quality Handicap at Rosehill,
is expected to reach classic
standard in the new season,
which opens next Saturday.
He could be a Derby chance.
Trainer Harry Plant has a
high opinion of Manrego, who
cost Bob Carter 3100gns. as
a yearling at the Randwick
auction last year. Manrego
“Six... five ... four ... three ... two ..."
has twice won at seven fur-
longs, each time without being
extended, and, as he is bred on
the same lines as Arboreal, a
winner of the two-mile Queens-
land Cup, there seems good
reason why he should run
the Derby distance. He’s by
Rego (imp.), a son of Nas-
rullah by Nearco, and is from
the Beau Port mare Sweet
Nymph.
Balfast, winner of the S.T.C.
Winter Cup in very heavy
going, was taken to Brisbane
for the two-mile Brisbane
Cup, but, after starting favor-
ite, missed a place. He has
8.5 in the Metropolitan and
8.6 in the Melbourne Cup.
* * *
New Diamond, easy winner
of an Ipswich Two-year-old
fast Saturday, was among an
early batch of Newtown Won-
der (imp.) yearlings sold at the
Randwick sales last year. He
brought 1900gns. lie’s from
Double Diamond by Double
Remove (imp.) from Lady
Silvius by Silvius (imp.). Max-
linda, who just as easily
landed another of the young-
ster events, is by The Magis-
trate (imp.) from Malaita by
Nuffield from Engaged by
Magpie (imp.), and comes
from a family that includes
Whittier, Buzalong and
Abspear.
* * *
More than one-third of the
horses entered for the A.J.C.'s
£5500 Epsom Handicap (one
mile, October 3) and for the
£6500 Metropolitan (13 fur-
longs, October 5) figure on the
limit (7st.). In bygone years
the limit was 6.7, or less, and
a look through Bulletin files
discloses that 62 years ago
Robin Hood won the mile with
6.7, but no horse has since
taken the race with less than
7.1, while numerous winners
carried above 9st. Several
winners of the long race since
the early 1900’s have carried
more than 9st., and the only
really lightweight to land it in
the past 50 years was Young
Crusader (6.11) in 1936.
In the current Epsom-
Metrop. weights the best horses
have been given their full
poundage—some perhaps a
little too much. At this stage
a likely half-dozen fdr the mile
are Huntly, Lawful, Grenoble,
Skyline, Noholme and Nilento,
while horses that look to have
a good show in the Metrop.
include Bardshah, Foxmara,
Ark Royal, Grand Garry,
Macdougal and Valerius.
When, because of the rains
last Wednesday, the A.J.C.
transferred the Warwick Farm
mid-week fixture to Randwick,
bookmakers operated for the
first time from the new
season’s stands. The changed
order in the paddock wasn’t
fully tested owing to the re-
duced attendance, but the
changes in the main ring-
formation seemed tiptop.
Winner of the Juvenile
Maiden at the transferred meet-
ing, Lord Ziet, is a son of El
Ziet (imp.), and cost 350gns. as
a yearling at the Randwick
auction last year. He was bred
by A. H. Wright at his East
Dunlop (Merriwa, N.S.W.)
Stud, and comes from the
family which produced The
Rover, winner of the 1921
Australian Cup. Lord Ziet’s
dam, Merry Lass, is by Denis
Boy (imp.).
* * *
“Ailsey”: Should children be
heard and not seen? At
Grafton (N.S.W.) Cup carnival
the other day the Woodward
Welter was won by Kalloni,
with Robert Kelly, a 16-year-
old, in the saddle. Well behind,
in second place, was Mister
Coronation, ridden by the
young jockey’s father, C.
“Skeeter” Kelly! “Skeeter”
has himself, of course, a fine
record of country jockeyship
—and not only country.
* * *
“Post”: When as a callow
youth I first started following
horses, an affluent old cove
with some 50 successful years’
experience of the Turf told me:
“Stick strictly to promising
colts up to three-years —then
follow good mares exclusively.
They’re never dishonest.” How
I wish now that I’d taken his
advice. And where would you
find a truer-hearted contem-
porary case in point than the
Sydney mare Tranquilette, who
added to her list a courageous
third in the mud at Rosehill
last Saturday?
* * *
“Soc”: The “S. M. Herald”
having on Saturday, July 25,
labelled Balfast an unlikely
starter in the S.T.C. Winter
Cup, and then, in its “Sun-
Herald” issue next day, having
had to report that Balfast not
only started in the S.T.C. Win-
ter Cup but won it, and, more-
over, was heavily backed
down from 5 to 1 to equal-
favoritism at 11 to 4, surely
after this latest experience
good old “Gran” will at last
decide to leave unlikely to the
kindergarten. Or is this one


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SCTUVAN
*<, PTY LTD .
L ’2?si»>3S?
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Man-ufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS,
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
VJACKSUL,” BRISBANE
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
that can rightly be labelled
unlikely ?
« * *
“Olympic”: In the June
issue of the magazine ‘‘Sports
Novels” results were printed
of a competition in which
readers were invited to name
the greatest 10 racehorses of
all time, and the best 10 of
the past 15 years. In the
latter category Todman
finished in 10th place with
3496 points, while Dalray
came 12th with 1426 points.
This clearly shows hero-
worship or a poor memory,
as Todman in fewer than 10
starts was beaten twice (once
second and once unplaced),
while Dalray came to Aus-
tralia in the autumn of 1952
as an N.Z. three-year-old
classic winner, and in the
spring of that year won the
Melbourne Cup as a four-year-
old carrying 9.8. Only six
horses have carried a greater
weight to victory in the race —
Archer, 10.2 (1862); Malua,
9.9 (1884); Carbine, 10,5
(1890); Poitrel, 10.0 (1920);
Phar Lap, 9.12 (1930); and
Peter Pan 9.10 (1934).
* * *
“Post”: Sydney sporting-
sheets have long printed
symbols against racehorses’
names indicating certain con-
ditions or preferences—“M,”
for example, meaning “good
in heavy going.” U.S. sporting
journals, too (says the “New
Yorker”), use symbols for
similar purposes, but of late
have come up with a new one
—“Fr.”—denoting that the
ground during that particular
nag’s previous race was frozen.
Luckily, Australian punters
strike that snag only once every
White Saturday—the last one,
at Randwick on January 1,
1948, after a colossal hailstorm,
when the track (and Sydney)
was topdressed with three-
inches of ice. (p.s.: At Rand-
wick on June 13 saturated
punters, in a temperature
16deg. below normal for a June
day, reckoned they were Fr.!)
* * •
“P.0.M.C.”: Billy Cook
(B. 15/7/’59) twice rode five
winners during an afternoon —
at Newcastle on May 5, 1941,
and at Randwick on March
28, 1951. Bill won two Mel-
bourne Cups (1942 and 1946),
as well as the Caulfield Cup on
one of Australia’s best-ever
horses, Amounis, in 1930. As
a second-year ’prentice he won
the Oakleigh Plate on Figure.
During “The Champ’s” 35
years in the saddle he was
seldom if ever in trouble with
authority, always wore a
smile and, while formidable
over all distances, probably had
no peer in this country on
sprinters and two-year-olds.
Other Sports
After being out for three
rounds St. Kilda is back in
the V.F.L. “four’,’ in place of
South after its 12.13-11.5
defeat of Essendon and Fitz-
roy’s comfortable 13.19-10.7
win over South. The Saints,
two wins behind Melbourne
and Carlton and one behind
North, are one game in front
of Fitzroy, Collingwood and
South. Collingwood, at Carl-
ton, and Fitzroy, on the
M. face further stiff tests
this coming Saturday ; and St.
Kilda v. North should be most
interesting, too.
Saturday’s games were all
played in wet, greasy condi-
tions. At Collingwood the
Magpies, courageous and
tenacious, wore down Mel-
bourne (which had a 12-point
lead at half-time) to win by
three points in a tense finish,
14.10-14.7. In a drab game
Carlton beat Footscray
9.9-6.11 ; just as well for the
Blues that they had raced away
to a 7.2-1.1 lead at first change.
Youthful Geelong came from
well behind at three-quarter-
time to put Hawthorn right out
of the running 14.16-13.13,
and Richmond unexpectedly
trounced North 16.8-10.16.
“Ross by”: Geelong’s 19-
year-old ruckman-back-pocket
Paul Vinar, regarded 'by club
officials as having a big future
in League, comes from Czecho-
slovakia, and is, I believe, the
first foreign-born player ever
to. make League ranks. Vinar,
wfyo came to Australia nine or
10 years ago, is not, as might
be expected, a convert from
Soccer, which he has never
played.
4! % *
It was a case of “Here’s mud
in your eye!” for just about
every player at some time
or other on waterlogged and
mud-packed North Sydney
Oval on Saturday in the first
of two inter-State Rugby
Union games between N.S.W.
and Queensland. N.S.W.,
superior all round, beat the
Centenary State 17-3, after
leading 11-3 at half-time.
Sydney University winger
Magrath, opposed to Test
winger Donald, scored three of
N. five tries, ail of them
after, in the conditions, amaz-
ingly long runs....At Lan-
caster Park, Christchurch, on
Saturday, before a crowd of
over 50,000, Canterbury
defeated the British Isles 20-14,
after leading 11-8 at half-time.
The Lions were two men short
most of the second half.
* * *
“Mitron”: Don Clarke’s six
penalty-goals which won the first
Rugby Union Test for N.Z. against
British Isles, which scored four
tries to none (B. 22/7/’59), draws
attention to the anomaly, in the
system of points-scoring in Rugby
Union. While it is conceded that
the visitors erred in committing
breaches ' leading to penalty-kicks,
it appears ridiculous that a penalty-
goal is considered to be worth a
try. A try is often the result of
a spectacular team-effort which
thrills the spectators by the brilliance
of the movement. If Rugby League
scoring had been used, British Isles
would have beaten N.Z. 16-12.
* * *
In the first semi-final of
Sydney’s Rugby League, in
the mud and driving rain,
Manly outed Newtown 17-0.
The first half was scoreless,
Manly captain Willey (though
he kicked four goals after the
break) missing four shots for
goal and Diversi missing one.
It was purely a battle among
the forwards, with no attempt
by either side to open the
game. Veteran Manly for-
wards Mossop and Bull did an
enormous amount of work
* * *
Australia had no particular
trouble beating Canada in its
Davis Cup tie. In its earlier
clash with Mexico the tourers
had more anxious moments
than the eventual 4-1 result
would indicate. The three
singles that Australia won all
went to • five sets. In the
doubles Mexico made the same
mistake as the Australian
selectors made in the 1953
challenge-round playing a .
makeshift doubles-team, which
was thrashed, as were Hoad
and Hartwig in 1953.
* * *
“M. 0.”: Winner of this
' year’s Queensland women’s
golf-title was “Jillaroo” Judith
Percy, who, after three years’
absence from big golf, returned
to the scenes of her former
triumphs (she had already won
the Queensland title three
times). She is also the only
Queenslander to win the Aus-
tralian title (1954). For the
past couple of years “Jillaroo”
Judith has been driving a
tractor on a Dalby (Q.) farm,
and has not had much time to
swing a club.
* * *
“Nip”: Bob Wyatt, former
Warwickshire and England
opener, who toured here in
1932-33 and 1936-37, made a
bright 68 for the Midlands
Conference team against the
Australian Collegians the other
day. In making that score
Wyatt exceeded his age by 10.
* * *
“Sugu”: Tell “Zorok” (B.
15/7/’59) that Ray Mitchell and
Denzil Batchelor were both right.
On Jim Jeffries’s retirement in 1905
there were two logical contenders
for the vacant world heavyweight
title: Marvin Hart (who had
recently defeated Jack Johnson) and
“Philadelphia” Jack O’Brien. When
Tommy Burns, a middleweight,
challenged Hart, a man inches taller
and stones heavier than himself,
Hart accepted with alacrity—it
seemed to b‘e fruit for the sideboard
—especially as Burns had been
easily outpointed by Twin J. Sulli-
van in his last fight. Hart’s camp
persuaded Jeffries to resign his title
in favor of the winner of this bout,
advertised as for the “Heavyweight
Championship of the World.”
Burns, the underdog, outpointed
Hart, the 4-to-l-on favorite, and
immediately claimed the world’s
title. But two further contests were
necessary for Burns before his claim
was officially recognised, both
against O’Brien, and both fought
at Los Angeles: the first in Novem-
ber, 1906, a draw, and the second
in May, 1907, won by Burns on
. points. By the way, it was just
two months later—on Independ-
ence Day, 1907 —that Burns k.o.’d
Bill Squires, the Australian cham-
pion, and challenger, in one round
at Colma, California, Jim Jeffries
being the ref.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HOODS AND FOOD IN CHINA
r TTiE Peking Government has
J reported a doubling of
China’s grain-crop last year
and a “great leap forward” in
many other industries. But the
“Manchester Guardian”
reports that “nevertheless, at
the National People’s Congress
in April, the Minister of
Finance admitted that there
had been ‘a little tension owing
to short supplies of some non-
staple foods and manufactured
daily necessities in the cities’ ”:
“Part of his explanation was
that the livelihood of the
peasants had improved. This
year the plan was that 525-
million tons of grain should
grow where 375-million tons
grew before—or, rather, where
some of it grew before, because
the party’s central committee,
when it decided last December
to go slower with the develop-
ment of people’s communes,
also decreed that ‘in the next
several years, local conditions
permitting, we should try to
reduce the area sown to various
crops to about one-third the
present acreage.’
“The Minister of Agriculture
said last month that the area
sown to food-crops (excluding
apparently rice) had fallen this
year by some 17-million acres.
But China is still short of
chemical fertilisers and insec-
ticides, as the ‘People’s Daily’
pointed out a few weeks ago ;
therefore, it said, although
yields per acre were increasing,
the total crop would not be
greater than last year.
“Then the floods came. In
May unusually heavy rain fell
in various parts of the country
(there had earlier been drought
in the north and east), but on
June 4 the New China News
Agency was still reporting that
‘China is bringing-in one of
the best winter-wheat harvests
in her history.’ In a week or
two the wheat-harvest had be-
come very difficult, and Peking
radio was describing, for
instance, how members of a
commune in Hopei used 40
long knives, a thousand
kitchen-knives, and several
hundred pairs of scissors to cut
off the wheat-ears in the inces-
sant rain.
“The worst emergency, how-
ever, was in the rice-growing
province of Kwangtung, where
torrential storms (causing also
serious damage and loss of
life in Hong Kong on the coast)
coincided with exceptionally
high tides. It is now said by
the Chinese that some two-
million acres of arable land
have been inundated, that
getting on for 200 people have
lost their lives, and that
hundreds of thousands have
been made homeless. There
was great anxiety about
Canton, but the flood crests on
the rivers have now passed on
to the sea. How much damage
has been done we shall
probably never know.
“Chinese Communist
statistics are among the most
Cartoonist Vicky’s comment, in London “New Statesman," on Opposition-leader
Gaitskell’s tactics for the next U.K. general election.
suspect of all, and some
Western commentators have
suggested that the disaster has
been exaggerated to excuse
food-shortages to come. They
might equally argue that it has
been played-down to disguise,
the failure of the hydraulic
works in which so many
million man-hours have been
invested (although not so much
in Kwangtung as elsewhere)
with such loud publicity. All
the arguments, however, point
to the same conclusion —that
the Chinese, who even in the
year of the ‘great leap forward'
did not all get enough to eat,
will go still hungrier in this
year of floods.”
In view of all this, notes
London “Economist,” it is
ironical that “only last year the
leaders in Peking ordered many
thousands of intellectuals
from the universities and other
centres of urban disaffection to
enrol in the hard school of real
life, by going to help the
peasants work the land or to
provide building-labor on con-
struction-sites in the remote
and rugged interior.
“Some reversal of this policy
has now been reported;
students and professors alike
are trickling back to their
lecture rooms, and courses in
the liberal arts, which had been
virtually abolished, seem to
be reviving. Perhaps the
Government thinks the intel-
lectuals have been suffi-
ciently humbled ; perhaps some
of them were less help than
hindrance on the land; per-
haps it has been realised that
China actually needs to keep
graduates flowing from its uni-
versities.
“The recent drying-up of this
flow has been vividly described
by an Indian visitor, Sripati
Chandrasekhar, the director of
the Indian Institute for Popu-
lation Studies, in articles in
‘The Reporter’ and elsewhere.
The head of Wuhan University
proudly told his guest that
there were now 3700 students—
nearly four times the pre-
revolution - figure—and added,
equally proudly, that they were
manning several farms, an
ironworks and scores of small
industrial enterprises.
“In Shanghai, at the former
St. John’s University, the
buildings seemed almost
deserted. The puzzled visitor
slowly induced a deputy-
director to reveal that, out of
the 4600 students enrolled,
2000 were away working on
farms, 2000 were working full
time in factories and coming
to the university only once a
week, 200 were melting-down
steel scrap and 200 were
assigned to the militia on the
Fukien ‘front’.”
Arab Confusion
T ondon “Economist” takes a
look at some Arab
conflicts:
“Arab unity, removed
farther than ever from com-
plete political realisation, no
longer even means the ability
to make common cause.
Baghdad and Cairo are
enemies ; the border between
Damascus and Amman has
been closed ; insults are regu-
larly exchanged between Cairo
and Tunis and Cairo and
Amman ; Beirut’s transit trade
has been strangled by Damas-
cene stubbornness.
“If President Nasser is for
a cause, then General Kassem
must be against it; if King
Hussein offers a peace-making
proposal he is said to be in
league with Mr. Ben-Gurion.
Relations between Egypt and
Sudan are delicately balanced


Faith in the
Future
; • >;.\
#!
To have a well-founded Faith in Australia,
we must frankly face its problems and be prepared
to overcome them.
That is why I see the necessity now for
courageous “thinking ahead” on the wants that are
vital to this country’s expansion. One of the main
needs is, and will be, water.
Excellent work on water research is being done
by national and private foundations. Our scientists
have given us much in advancements such as
artificial rain-making and the cutting-down
of evaporation.
The fact survives that with a limited river
system and an average rainfall little more than half
the world average, we are still allowing water to
run to waste in huge volume.
Apply the effects of that to the whole Australian
scene. In this country there are a quarter of a
million rural holdings. They cover 1143-million
acres ; about sixty per cent, of our total area. These
holdings vary, as units, from farms of one acre or
more in a well-watered coastal region to large cattle
properties in the arid interior.
So the entire picture must be toned to climate,
rainfall, distance, and so on, to give a proper
perspective of what the occupation of Australia
really involves.
True, we have in construction water projects
to cost more than £2OO-million, in addition to the
£4OO-million scheme on the Snowy.
At the same time, seventy per cent, of the
total run-off of our rivers is in the thinly populated
tropical zone, mostly in North Queensland and the
Northern Territory. In the nearer lands served by
some part of the remaining thirty per cent., barely
two million acres are being cultivated
under irrigation.
The demand for water will rise—for primary
production, for decentralised industry, for domestic
use in cities and towns.
The cost of adequately storing and supplying
it will be enormous. It will still be a fraction of
what droughts and floods have cost us.
And meeting it fully is one of the compelling
challenges in our building of Australia for
the future.
over the question, vital to both
countries, of the Nile waters.
When all else fails, President
Nasser turns on those Arab
rulers who, in one way or
another, are beholden to
Britain —the Trucial Sheikhs,
the Sultan of Muscat, the petty
rulers of South Arabia. The
Yemenis are encouraged to
keep up the trouble on their
southern borders—though they
seem to have troubles enough
of their own.
“The Arab leaders are
entangled in their own words.
They do not appear to notice
it themselves, but surely the
Arab people are beginning to
ask questions. In one breath
the leaders claim that imperial-
ism is dead and that every
vestige of it has been destroyed
by what they call Arab
nationalism ; in the next they
blame imperialism for all the
troubles that beset and divide
them today.
“By now President Nasser
has realised that imperialists
are not necessarily pale people
who come in ships from the
West ; but this discovery has
only made imperialism easier
to serve-up as a mess of
poisoned porridge. The
squabble between Cairo and
Baghdad is not of imperialist
making. It is an Arab fight,
picked and carried . on by
Arabs. When the Iraqi Army
overthrew the pro-Western
monarchy, one of the few good
things that Western politicians
could say about the revolution
was that it ought to heal the
breach between Cairo and
Baghdad ; but it did not.
“Israel presents a more
obvious target for Arabs in
search of enemies. But, if we
are to believe what their
leaders say every day, the
Arabs have been no better at
resisting Israeli intrigues than
at resisting imperialism.
“The Israelis have almost
always had their way against
Arabs. They carved their
State out of Arab territory,
they defended it successfully
against a gaggle of Arab
armies in 1948, they humili-
ated Egypt’s armed forces in
1956, and, despite Egyptian
attempts to keep them from
using the Suez Canal, they
have burst through the Arab
economic blockade to find
trade and friends in Africa and
Asia.
“Their Prime Minister
recently proposed that the four
Foreign Ministers at Geneva
should turn aside from the
business of Berlin to consider
a plan to neutralise the Middle
East. There was no hint of
what such a move would do
to the already bruised amour
propre of the Arabs ; there
was no pretence of taking them
into consideration at all. Any
proposal by Mr. Ben-Gurion
could be expected to annoy
them ; but by offering a sweep-
ing plan to settle the Middle
East he committed the same
error that the great Powers
have made in the past with
their pacts and doctrines. The
Foreign Ministers apparently
took no note of his suggestion
—but the Arabs should con-
sider its implications. It means
not only that Israel has little
respect for the Arabs’ ability
to do anything for themselves,
but also that it has cause to
believe that the great Powers
feel the same way.
“So far the Arabs have
failed all the tests of unity
offered them. The Arab League
has never been effective,
because the Egyptians and
their friends tried to make it
into an exclusive club and left
the other Arabs pouting in the
corridors. The Arabs could
not put aside their differences
long enough to fight together
in the 1948 war. They have not
accepted President Nasser as
their sole unifier. He tried to
bring them unity just by talk-
ing about it, and he still talks
about it as if it existed beyond
the borders of Egypt ; but his
insistence that his is the only
true way to unity has left them
divided as never before.
“If the rest of the world
regards the Arabs as a con-
tentious and ridiculous lot of
people it is not the fault of
the rest of the world. It is
not the fault of imperialist
plots in the Middle East, of the
cold war elsewhere in the
world, of Communist intrigues,
or of Israeli enmity. If the
Arabs expect to be treated as
adults, they will have to accept
the responsibilities of adults.”
Kozlov
r T"HE U.S. tour of Frol Kozlov,
First Deputy Premier of
Russia during which he
opened the Soviet exhibition in
New York, had private talks
with President Eisenhower and
Secretary of State Herter, and
visited San Francisco, Detroit
and Chicago—prompted the
“U,S. News and World
Report” to attempt an outline
of the man.
Describing him as “a new
type of Soviet leader —a man
who combines the toughness of
a top Communist with the
affability of a successful
business-executive” and his


Between
Ourselves
/) \
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
mission as intended “to warm-
up American feelings towards
the Soviet Government, and
perhaps to try to pave the way
for a summit-meeting between
Communist dictator Khrush-
chev and President Eisen-
hower,” the “Report” con-
tinues :
“The man charged with these
twin assignments in the latest
visit of a top Soviet leader is
still somewhat of a mystery to
the Western world.
“As a protege of Khrush-
chev, Kozlov’s rise has been
rapid. Some Western observers
in Moscow now believe that he
has moved ahead of Mikoyan
into the No. 2 spot in the party,
that he is the ‘crown prince’ in
the Kremlin.
“During the last year, when-
ever Khrushchev has been out
of the country, it has been
Kozlov who served as Acting
Chairman of the Council of
Ministers, not the veteran
Mikoyan.
“Not much is known about
Kozlov’s private life or his
family. His public record,
however, is clear. It was high-
lighted a year ago when he
received his second Order of
Lenin, one of the highest
honors granted to Russians.
The citation said the award
was ‘in recognition of his great
service to the Communist party
and the Soviet State.’
“Kozlov also is one of the
youngest of the ‘strong men’
who have moved up to top
rank in the Kremlin. He will
celebrate his 51st birthday
August 17.
“Kozlov was born into a
peasant family in a village
south-east of Moscow. He
started working in a factory at
14 and joined the Communist
party at 18. The party sent
him to a workers’ school, and
he was graduated from the
Leningrad Polytechnic Insti-
tute with a degree in metall-
lurgical engineering.
“During the early part of
World War 11, Kozlov was
active in war-production work,
but later moved into a series
of party jobs.
“Kozlov became leader of
the Leningrad district’s party-
committee in 1953. Under
Khrushchev’s guidance he was
made a member of the party’s
Central Committee and in
1957 was elevated to the Prse-
sidium of that group the
party’s top echelon.
“It was Kozlov who lined-
up the support needed by
—London “News Chronicle.”
"WHY DID THEY HAVE TO BRING US BACK?”
Khrushchev in June, 1957, to
beat down the challenge of a
so-called ‘anti-party’ group
within the Central Committee
that sought to oust the Soviet
Premier.
“In contrast to most of his
associates, Kozlov always
appears well groomed. His
Western-style suits set-off a
pleasant face topped by wavy,
silver hair. At receptions, he
usually chats cordially about
generalities while Khrushchev
and the other top leaders de-
claim about political matters.
“One veteran diplomat in
.Moscow says that Kozlov is
the real executive in the Soviet
high command.
“ ‘When executive decisions
are to be made,’ this diplomat
says, ‘it appears to me that
Kozlov is the man they lean
on heavily.’ ”
Coexistence in Space
TVTew York “Herald Tribune”
comments on Moscow’s
announcement of the safe
recovery from outer space of
a rocket containing two dogs
and a rabbit:
“It would almost seem that
the Russian scientists were
attempting to demonstrate the
possibility of peaceful co-
existence in space. Sending
two dogs and a rabbit off in
the same conntainer would
otherwise imply that the dogs
were being given their rations
‘on the hoof,’ so to speak, and
that the rabbit was in greater
danger from his fellow-
travellers than from his
journey.
“The whole project
resembles one of those ‘happy
families’ that the showmen of
an older day displayed to
astonish the natives —toothless
lions lying down with elderly
lambs, and other minglings of
apparently antipathetic fauna.
But while everyone knows
that, given the proper training
and circumstances, carnivorous
beasts can dwell amicably with
their timid prey, the applic-
ability of this great moral
lesson to current world history
is open to dispute.
“For one thing, the Soviet
Union (or at least Mr. Khrush-
chev) has indicated that he is
only willing to coexist peace-
fully if he is supplied with a
sustantial ration of Red meat
—beginning with West Berlin.
Moreover, the dogs and rabbit
were probably tightly and
separately strapped into their
respective compartments in the
latest rocket. The real lesson,
therefore, would seem to be
that strong fences make good
neighbors, rather than . any
more idealistic conclusion.”
German Status Quo
/ r "\NE of many arguments
advanced by Henry A.
Kissinger, associate-director of
the Harvard (U.S.) Centre for
International Affairs, in an
article in the U.S. quarterly
“Foreign Affairs” on various
aspects of Western diplomacy
in the Berlin crisis:
“It is often maintained that
one of the Soviet purposes in
the present crisis is to win
Western acceptance of the
status quo in Eastern Europe,
and we are urged to yield to
facts that we are.powerless to
change.
“In passing, it may be
doubted that the only reason-
able response to facts is to
adjust to them. But in the par-
ticular instance it is important
to distinguish the problem of
Germany from that of the
satellite countries of Eastern
Europe. There the West has
long since recognised the
existing Governments. Diplo-
matic relations have been
established. Commercial agree-
ments have been concluded.
Even economic aid has been
extended, as in the case of
Poland. Hungary proved that
the West is not prepared to
support domestic upheavals
with force.
“It is therefore difficult to
assign any concrete meaning
to the term ‘recognition of the
status quo’ or to imagine any-
thing more the West could do
to adjust to existing conditions.
The danger to Soviet rule
results from the inability of
the Communist leaders to
obtain domestic support in the
countries concerned. The only
additional concession conceiv-
able would be to collaborate
in the Soviet repression of
freedom by renouncing the


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY UNITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
—New York “Herald Tribune.”
“I WISH YOU HAD SOMETHING TO WEAR!”
,principle of self-determina-
tion.
“The case is different in
Germany, however. Here a
Communist regime has been
established in only a portion
of the country, a portion that
has no historical, ethnic or
cultural tradition .distinct from
Germany as a whole. The
problem in Eastern Germany
is not only that a puppet
Government has been forced
on a hostile population; a
separate State there —even were
it non-Communist —would run
counter to the German desire
for reunification. Even
Khrushchev on his trip to
Eastern Germany found it
necessary constantly to reiterate
that unification was the ulti-
mate goal, though not until
Western Germany was ready
to accept the Soviet system.
As long as Germany remains
divided the position of the East
German regime is perforce
precarious.
“For the East German
regime is basically threatened
not only by the hostility of its
own population but through
the existence of a free and
prosperous West Germany.
Any West German Govern-
ment must advocate reunifica-
tion, however moderate it may
be in the means it chooses to
pursue this objective and
however patient it may be in
bringing it about.
“No West German Govern-
ment can accept as permanent
the forcible partition of Ger-
man territory without under-
mining its domestic support,
An alliance which demanded
such a price from the German
people would lose its meaning
in German eyes. And, what-
ever the self-restraint of either
the Federal Republic or the
Western allies, the history of
Europe in the 19th century and
of the anti-colonial struggles
of the 20th demonstrates that
the desire for national inde-
pendence cannot be ignored by
Governments. Or are we to
assume that the desire for
self-determination and national
dignity is less strong in Europe
than in Asia or Africa?
“The Federal Republic
would suffer a perhaps irre-
parable blow if its allies
accepted its present frontiers as
final—even to the extent of not
pressing for unification. The
division of Germany may be
unavoidable, but for the West
a great deal depends on
demonstrating what makes it
so. An excess of ‘realism’
about accepting the division of
Germany will enable the Soviet
Union to shift the responsi-
bility for thwarting unification
on us.
“This has already been fore-
shadowed by Khrushchev’s
statement to a group of West
German editors that the West
preferred a divided Germany
for economic as well as military
reasons, and by the acts of
the East German delegation
at Geneva, which has taken
pains to project itself as the
defender of German nation-
alism.
“If the Federal Republic is
persuaded that it cannot
achieve reunification through
ties to the West it is likely to
seek its aims through separate
dealings with the East. Unifica-
tion could then be used by the
Soviets as a lure to end, step
by step, the achievements of
European integration and to
encourage a race for Moscow’s
favor. Alternatively, there may
be a resurgence of virulent
nationalism.
“Maintaining the Federal
Republic as a willing partner
of the Atlantic community is
important not only for the
future of Germany; it is even
more vital for the peace of the
world.”
Elbe and Trent
■pROM an article by Sarah
Gainham, Bonn corre-
spondent of London “Spec-
tator,” on German reactions
to the U.K. Labor party’s pro-
posal for a “non-nuclear club”:
“East German leaders have
already, made public threats as
to what they propose to do
about West Berlin when the
Russians have handed over to
them. ' Militarily, Berlin is un-
defendable. There is no doubt
at all that provocations would
be increased, quite deliberately,
until ‘something’ happened.
“Let us be quite clear that
the loss of Berlin would be
the first step in the slow loss
of Western Europe. What
policy does the Labor party
envisage when the economic
and propaganda pressure of
the East, thanks to European
weakness, gets within hailing-
distance of dominating the
Channel? Looked at from the
Elbe rather than the Trent this
is far from being an incon-
ceivable notion.
“There is as much hatred
and fear of nuclear weapons
in West Germany as there is
in England. They are viewed
with almost superstitious dread
here as there. But it is not
enough to dislike these
weapons. What is the work-
able alternative?”
Various Voices
Lord Ebury: “Neither
industry nor anyone else has
a clear idea of what would
happen if the Labor party were
returned to power [in Great
Britain]. I think the time will
come when as a party they
will have to make-up their
minds whether to follow a
genuine Socialist policy or not.
I feel the tenacity of the Labor
party in hanging on to this
dogma does more than any-
thing else to characterise it as
an ageing party warming its
chilly hands on the embers of
long-dead controversy. It is
most instructive to observe how
little attention the Labor party
has for the younger generation.
For a political party to lose
touch with the young is tanta-
mount to signing its own
death-warrant.”
Prime Minister Macmillan:
“I think we can at least take
comfort in this reflection: at
the end of last year we were
in an atmosphere of ultimatum:
today, despite an occasional
speech, we are in an atmo-
sphere of negotiation.”


London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
'T'here has always been an
opinion that, given time,
Labor might win the election
for the Conservatives. At one
time it was Nye Bevan who
dropped the bricks. Now it's
Frank Cousins.
But there are other issues less
sensational than the H-bomb.
We shall hear a great deal more
about the “Faceless Men” who
control British industry and, per
se, have the Government on a
leading-rein.
It began with the Labor
threat to take over any of the
600 major firms that “were
falling-down on their job.” The
Institute of Directors countered
by # publishing a list of the
likely 600. This gave some
Tory M.P.’s the idea of going
into the constituencies and
naming some of these concerns
as likely victims for nationali-
sation. They enjoyed them-
selves, and, once again, the
Labor secret weapon proved
to be a boomerang. Em-
ployees, as well as employers,
don’t want to be nationalised.
So the campaign is taking a
less specific form. The devil
you don’t know is far more
terrifying than the devil you
do know. It is not profitable
to pinpoint individuals nor to
attack a figure (the Prime
Minister, say) who is popular.
So, as with the “Guilty Men”
campaign of 1945, a sinister
but vague composite image of
all that is bad in big business
is being evolved to scare the
elector.
This manifestation is largely
the outcome of an intensive
campaign by the steel com-
panies against nationalisation
and of the Institute of
Directors’ entry into defensive
politics which have so angered
the Socialists, particularly Mr.
Harold Wilson. Opinion is not
by any means unanimous as to
the propriety of these bodies
spending considerable sums of
money in challenging, and
virtually attacking, the alter-
native political party, but both
affirm that they have the right
to defend themselves against
nationalisation.
The institute is anything but
a moribund organisation and
holds very strong views on the
proper responsibilities of a
director, for whom it seeks to
establish professional status.
Passive Interference
The dispute in the printing
trade which spread so quickly
was a complicated one, but not
so confused that public opinion
was unable to assess the broad
rights and wrongs. By their
apparent selfishness, irrespon-
sibility and unreasonableness
the trade-union leaders did
serious harm to their movement
and to their members.
The issue amounted to a
head-on clash between the two
parties. The unions’ demand
for a 10 p.c. pay-increase and
a 40-hour week was, since
guaranteed overtime “goes
with the job,” a straight-
forward and substantial wage-
claim. Equally obdurate, the
employers argued that this
would put the smaller firms
and papers out of business and
insisted upon their modest
offer being linked with a joint
effort to cut-down restrictive
practices and to admit more
apprentices to the trade.
High tempers (and some
ugly incidents) spread to the
ink-suppliers, whose workers
happened to have a separate
quarrel with their bosses ; but
here, it is true, some union-
leaders did their best to help
the national papers, who had
no part in the dispute, to keep
in circulation.
The essential trouble was,
and is, common to both sides.
The inadequacy of the archaic
machinery of labor-relations to
cope with modern requirements
is not confined to the printing-
trade. The employers’ side is
made up of loose federations
in which the one-man boss is
lumped with the multiple con-
cern ; and the unions are still
inhibited by the class-war com-
plex.
Most significant was the
series of attacks on the Ministry
of Labor. Previously accused
of the odd misdemeanor of
“interfering by doing nothing,”
Mr. George Brown laid heavy
blame on the Minister in a
weekend speech. Next day, in
the House, Mr. Macleod ex-
pressed the desirability of “a
cool atmosphere,” and, on
receiving the earnest and con-
structive co-operation of Mr.
Robens, tore-up his reply to
Mr. Brown. But Robert
Willis, chairman of the T.U.C.
general council, renewed the
offensive in terms so strong and
so wild that some of his allega-
tions have had to be categori-
cally disproved.
Why pillory a Minister of
Labor who is no less con-
scientious and impartial than
his predecessor? Here, per-
haps, was the critical point of
the dispute. The strike could
not last indefinitely. Strike-
money, already inadequate, was
becoming harder to find. Indi-
vidually, relations between
employer and employee were
good.
It may well be that the
promoters were showing signs
of over-anxiety, for things
didn’t turn out quite as they
were planned. On previous
occasions, especially during the
inflationary race, the Minister
of Labor, beside himself to
keep the peace, had intervened
and brought about a com-
promise.
This attitude led to a new
technique asking for too
much and retiring happily with
a nice compromise. But on
this occasion the Government
clearly made-up its mind in
advance not to be caught.
Hence the frustrated and spite-
ful attacks on Mr. Macleod.
East End Creativity
There must be something
particularly stimulating in the
Yiddisher background. How
otherwise can one explain the
preponderance of Jews among
our new. playwrights? Wolf
Mankowitz was the first in
recent years and, perhaps,
set the example. Others in-
clude Peter Shaffer, Bernard
Kobs, the lyricist Lionel Bart,
and 'Arnold Wesker, whose
play, “Roots,” has brought
artistic and financial success
again to the Royal Court
Theatre.
Although Mankowitz and
Shaffer enjoyed the conven-
tional higher education, the
others did not, having, as the
phrase goes, “lived experi-
mentally.” Wesker, now 27,
has been carpenter, plumber’s
mate, bookshop-assistant, seed-
sorter, furniture - apprentice
and, for nearly four years,
kitchen porter. Following the
prestige success of his play,
“Chicken Soup with Barley,”
produced at the Royal Court a
year ago, the Arts Council
granted him a £3OO bursary.
“Roots” is not a sensational
play either in content or
manner, and is literary rather
than “box-office.” It is slight,
even casual, in construction and
idiosyncratic in dialogue. The
theme country girl comes
home much changed after
living in Big City—is a little
flimsy for a two-hour play,
and leads the author into tech-
nical deep-water in the third
act from which he just manages
to extricate himself, victorious
but soaked and gasping.
This is the kind of play
which marks the difference
between “commercial” and
“pure” theatre and which
justifies the continued existence
of the English Stage Company.
Wesker proves himself to be
a writer of rare personality
and, in a sense, culture. He
has taken, no doubt from per-
sonal experience and observa-
tion, a situation and set of
characters and developed a
tone-poem out of them. His
approach is essentially verbal
and literary. Most of the hap-
penings, like the people, are
trivial, but the overtones are
far-reaching and the basic
truths essential.
Beatie Bryant returns from
London, where she has been
working as a waitress, to a
Norfolk family only a little less
hopeless than that of “Tobacco
Road.” Her sister, Jenny, is
a slattern married to a dolt;
her mother is mousey but
quarrelsome and her father is
shiftless, mean and sick.
Beatie’s objective is to prepare
the scene for the visit of her
lover, one Ronnie, whose in-
fluence, both physical and intel-
lectual, has at once enslaved
and released her. It would be
unfair to give away the third-
act denouement, but Ronnie’s
non-appearance is no secret.
There is an old dramatic rule
that a character who is much
talked-about must be intro-
duced. This instance is a
notable example of how
soundly that rule can be
broken.
Joan Plowright has a long
and difficult role as Beatie and
acquits herself magnificently.
Yet, despite her ripe natural
accent, she is a little too heavy;
this is the kind of part a gifted
amateur might play to better
effect than an accomplished
professional. Apart from
Gwen Nelson’s mother, a gem
of naturalism, and Jack Rod-
ney’s withdrawn father, the
acting is undistinguished Mum-
mer setshire ; but John Dexter’s
production, if occasionally pro-
longed, is splendidly realistic.
Happily the author has no
secular or emotional bee in his
bonnet, and “Roots” has a
timeless and placeless quality
which -should bring it before
wider audiences.


WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM
or ARTHRITIS
THIS WILL INTEREST YOU
When Mr. R. A. Stratton was given an old Indian Formula
for the relief of Rheumatic complaints some 30 years ago he had
no idea that one day he would be sending the Powder round the
world to relieve sufferers. “Naturally as a strong, robust youth, 1
thought little about it at the time,” said Mr. Stratton, “but in
later years I became a chronic Arthritis sufferer myself, so I
had the Formula made up by a Chemist and took a course of the
Powder for some months, which effected a complete cure.
“I naturally sympathised with anyone else who had been similarly
afflicted, so I decided to have the Powder prepared in commercial
quantities so I could help the numerous sufferers from Rheumatism
and Arthritis and 1 must confess the results have been amazing”
When the Company first started
selling the Powder its sales were
limited to this State, but as a
result of its success it was quickly
acclaimed a WORLD DISCOVERY
and its fame spread throughout
the Commonwealth until ve now
have a clientele of over 5b,000 and
have established an enviable repu-
tation for our successful treatment
of all types of Rheumatism and
Arthritis.
People who have been almost
crippled with hands, feet, and
joints can now use their limbs with
perfect freedom from pain, and
cases have been reported where
men are back at work as a result
of our wonderful Treatment, and
note—this has been accomplished
by the use of only one teaspoonful
of powder daily—nothing could be
simpler.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC and
ARTHRITIS POWDER contains
no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart, and is a natural remedy
for all complaints of the Rheumatic
Group.
It will further assist to improve
your health and keep you fit. Suf-
ferers who have had Cortizone,
Gold Injections and Ray Treatment
—all alike have found relief by our
proven methods of which we are
justly proud. Thousands have
found freedom from suffering—
WHY NOT YOU?
A . . . . FOUR WEEKS SUPPLY CARTON, Instruction Pamphlet
TREATMENT ADVICE and a SPECIAL CONCESSION RATE
VOUCHER if your complaint needs further treatment .... costs
only £1 POST FREE. Send to:
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER LTD.,
7 HOWARD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
surely the most significant of
all war-time journals—came to
an end.
Now the distinguished
soldier was out of a job. There
was, Sir Arthur Bryant reveals,
an impression that he might be
appointed Governor - General
of Canada, but that position
went instead to his friend and
colleague, Lord Alexander.
And, subsequently, Alanbrooke
has been in effect resting on
his laurels.
That type of resting has
related only to jobs of profit.
On the zoological side, he has
been busy enough giving
assistance to various societies,
photographing wild - life in
English woods, and occasion-
ally visiting the Continent.
A couple of years ago, for
example, he went with about
a dozen other enthusiasts to
the Coto Donana, a wild region
in the south of Spain, and
there (as is revealed in Portrait
of a Wilderness, Guy Mount-
fort’s handsome book on the
area), he enjoyed himself
immensely in filming many
notable birds, most of which
are unknown to Britain.
Having “shot” about 20
species in the Coto Donana
region, and a number of others
since then, his total tally of
birds photographed, all in
color, is now, I should think,
about 150 kinds, which, in all
the circumstances, including
the fact that some of the nests
were located as much as 50ft.
aloft, represents a very stout
performance on the part of a
man who came to the hobby
when he was getting along in
years.
YV/Jth the Spanish excursion
* * in mind, it may seem odd
that Lord Alanbrooke has not
returned to Australia, here to
renew the brief acquaintance
with people and fauna that
interested him so much in
1945.
In fact, a suggestion on this
point was sent to him some
time ago, and, in reply, he
made it clear that only eco-
nomic pressure prevented him
from making the visit.
The same matter is touched
upon in the final pages of
Triumph in the West. “I am
broke and am forced to sell
tny bird-books,” the about-to-
retire C.I.G.S. told his diary
early in 1946; and (says
Bryant), with more obligations
to meet than his pay as an
unemployed Field - Marshal
would cover, he had to dispose
of all his copies of John
Gould’s beautiful volumes,, in-
cluding The Birds of Australia.
This, surely, is a curious
state of affairs.
It seems clear that Lord
Alanbrooke, K.G., G.C.8.,
0.M., etc., the soldier who
was “complementary to
Churchill,” made a serious
economic error in giving a life-
time of military service to his
country. Hq should, instead,
have attained similar eminence
in business, and then of course
he would have been able to
retain those bird-books, and,
as well, make as many trips to
Australia as he could desire.
In the present circumstances,
all we can do, perhaps, is
to hope that the Field-
Marshal’s broken ribs have
mended satisfactorily, and,
moreover, that he had a happy
time last month with the marsh
harriers and the pretty little
bearded tits in the swamps of
Norfolk.
could bowl ten squares like
you, and not raise a sweat.”
“You probably- could, too,
Fatso.”
That was well handled, he
thought. Very adroit. Not, of
course, that anyone could take
Fatty seriously.
“He’s a terrible boy,” Dulcie
said primly.
“Who, Fatty?” Neville
laughed. “Not so terrible.”
“Yes, he’s always causing
trouble. He was at a dance a
few weeks ago, he was quite
drunk, and started a fight.
You were wise not to answer
him back.”
Wise? That was a good one.
Because, of course, Fatty
couldn’t fight his way out of
a paper-bag. Everyone knew
that.
“I don’t blame you for being
frightened of him,” Dulcie said
darkly.
“Eh?”
“Well —you were frightened,
weren’t you?”
“Oh, yes, I was frightened.
Scared stiff.”
Irony. But, somehow, it
didn’t take. Dulcie said noth-
ing., He glanced at Trevor.
That was Trevor’s cue —Trevor
should now roar with laughter,
point-out the tremendous,
ludicrous difference between a
bodgie like Fatty, a common,
not even competent brawler,
and a real man of his hands.
But Trevor was staring at the
poster advertising coming
attractions.
“Scared stiff,” Neville
repeated, more loudly, and
laughed.
Trevor said nothing.
“I thought so,” Dulcie mur-
mured.
He was shocked.
Shocked and disillusioned.
Everything had turned-out
lousy. Like that business at
Terry’s. A long table, dishesi
passed from hand to hand,
two plates in his hands at
once, one for his left-hand
neighbor, one for himself.
Suddenly, almost without
thinking, switching them,
taking the larger helping of
turkey and ham for himself,
sure no one saw the deed of
darkness. But, of course,
someone did. Linda or
Beatrice, dying of the shame
but bravely hiding it, saving it
for breakfast.
~VTo husky toughs sprang on
them after the pictures,
giving him a chance to make
Dulcie eat / her words. It
wasn’t far to the car, anyway.
And things like that didn’t
happen in this town. He was
mad to think otherwise. He
was mad, period. They said
good-night coldly. He didn’t
want to see either of them
again.
He walked home gloomily.
Everything was lousy, lousy
and ironical.
He hung the blazer on a
hanger, rubbed a spot on the
pocket with a damp handker-
chief. He put on his pyjamas,
lay on the bed with the light
on, his hands folded behind
his head. A breeze from the
common set the blazer gently
swaying—it did look rather
fine. Maybe by tomorrow
they’d shut up about the
turkey and ham
[The End]


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Housing Natives
Periodically a section of the
Westralian press launches a
campaign on behalf of the
underprivileged aborigines;
and there’s usually a lot of
criticism of both the public
conscience and the Govern-
ment’s part in helping the
previous owners of this con-
tinent to become a part of our
civilisation.
There’s room for criticism
on both counts. By and large
the average white Australian
doesn’t think much of his black
brother ; and the Government’s
got mighty little to show for
a lot of money poured down
the drain.
By the same token, a lot
more money will go the same
way before any results are seen;
and the black man himself
doesn’t show-up very favorably
in the attempts to house him
comfortably and decently.
For some years the W.A.
Government policy has been
to allot a house here and there
in the various State Housing
Commission settlements to
certain selected native families,
and it was customary for the
lucky family to be given
possession with a fanfare of
trumpets and press pictures
aimed at silencing criticism.
The natives —obviously ab-
stemious and home-loving—•
were suitably grateful, and it
was accepted (by the press)
that each family was firmly on
the way towards citizenship. In
most cases the neighbors sought
accommodation elsewhere- or
acquired savage dogs.
Generally speaking the
neighbors’ fears were realised
far more than the hopes of
press and Parliament. Few
native families installed in a
modern home are able, or con-
tent, to conduct themselves as
even very low-class whites
would be expected to. In no
time at all a mob of friends
and relations move in ; there
are beer- and wine-parties,
particularly when the house-
owner has been granted citizen-
ship rights and can get beer
and wine as he wants it. I’ve
seen houses in close-settled
areas where the lawns, such as
they are, have been littered
with bottles and drunk natives
well after sun-up. If the neigh-
bors kick they’re pilloried in the
press as selfish and un-Christian
and neglectful of their obliga-
tions to the original owners of
this country.
Invariably the criticism
comes from people living in
suburbs where such native
homes wouldn’t be tolerated
for a minute; the obvious
assumption being that residents
of working-class suburbs should
accept conditions which would
be intolerable for business-
executives or bookmakers.
A family of natives lately
came to live in an old house
“ Yes — coming, dear... coming, dear!”
near my place. The house was
condemned when the previous
tenant died and was made
available only at a newspaper’s
plea on behalf of a homeless
native couple. Within a week
there were three families living
there, and they appeared to
have plenty of visitors; they
plagued the other residents for
money, food, tobacco and odd
jobs ; and they spent the bulk
of their money hiring taxis to
take them to and from the
township less than a mile away,
and on wine.
They didn’t take taxis solely
because they were lazy. They
had money to spend, and as
they weren’t hungry 'at the
moment that was as satisfying
a way as any to spend it. If,
knowing they had money, I
had asked for a loan I have
no doubt I’d have got it.
They’d have assumed that they
could approach me for a loan
later, but that wouldn’t have
been a stipulation.
Now, I’m not criticising them
on their attitude to money.
They’re handling a strange
commodity at least as well as
I’d make-out with a spear or
waddy; but I’d criticise any
Government which put me out
in the dry country with a spear
and told me to find food and
water, and I’m equally critical
of a Government which places
native families in houses sur-
rounded by white families but
within range of a horde of
friends who are less fortunately
placed, and to whom they feel
an obligation.
You can’t successfully house
natives in white settlements.
You can’t raise a stone-age
people to the 20th century over-
night. The best you can do is
provide them with conditions
where they can make the most
of their own undoubted talents
while some of them acquire a
smattering of, and a taste for,
civilisation as we define it.
House natives by all means ;
but house them in the back-
country where they can have
the best of both worlds. There,
under correct and strict super-
vision, they could be trained
in the way they’d be expected
to live in white settlements. At
•least the children could be,
provided alcohol was banned
and education enforced.
The Australian aborigine
isn’t unintelligent. Within a
few years of white settlement
in W.A. natives were speaking
our language well, while those
whites who tried to acquire a
smattering of aboriginal
dialects found the going hard.
Some native women were
superior to the white men who
married them. And in his wild
state the native could be a
gentleman. His main faults
are that he can’t hold alcohol
or handle money ; and he can’t
take his place in a society
which expects him to do both.
—Spin (W.A.).
Careers in Philanthropy
“Ardoyne’s” reminder (B.
1/7/’59) that we live in pros-
perous times is superfluous.
Surely it is this fact that has
moved so many organisations
to ventures long overdue, but
impossible during depression
and war periods? Not only
church-buildings but homes for
crippled and subnormal
children, hostels and clubrooms
are being built.
Because, for the churches, it
is obviously a time for financial
reorganisation, a field has been
opened to the professional
organiser. However, religious
bodies “rely. .. .on the work of
outside organisers” only as
regards the initial launching of
a campaign, the work of which
is done voluntarily by
parishioners, chiefly profes-
sional men and businessmen.
To the average parishioner
the idea was distasteful until
we realised, among other things,
that with an efficient scheme
provided by the experts the co-
operation of a large number of
competent but hitherto listless
laymen is assured, and a
burden lifted from hard-work-
ing clergymen. Moreover,
most of us now feel that our
past giving was on a petty
scale.
Though there may well be
some high-pressure salesmen
canvassing, nothing I have
heard from canvassers or can-
vassed would suggest that the
“foot-in-door” tactics outlined
by “Ardoyne” are the usual
policy. Response has been
generous, but the few people
whom I know to be contribut-
ing (perhaps) more than they
can really afford are devout
church-people who were among
the foremost workers, not the
canvassed or cajoled.
As to binding people by
pledges to “contribute
generously for years,” we have
been asked to pledge for two
years only, and I believe that
this will cover present commit-
ments by the parish.


m.
L. _ -
-* - •- -
Ideal
jSSofing for
Modern
j ,• Homes
Lightweight Roofing
with a Terra-Cotta Appearance!
So easy to fix on old or new homes—existing roof
timber structure requires no alterations—exterior
appearance is enhanced by the rich russet red synthetic
enamel. Sturdy, watertight and scientifically designed'
to ensure maximum run-off of drinkable water.
Metal Tile Roofing
Manufactured by
/
Baptist Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY
Write to Dept. "MT,”
Wunderlich Limited,
Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for free
catalogue.
For supplies, see your
LOCAL HARDWARE
MERCHANT
or contact direct.
83.MTR.6
The most impractical church-
man knows that in any reces-
sion the church will operate on
a greatly reduced income, but
in the meantime we have our
new buildings and other good
work has been done. On the
other hand, if, when we are
asked to renew or review our
pledges, there is a reasonable
prospect of another two years
of prosperity, and* if the
church plans further projects—
a home for the aged, for
instance —I and many other
not-so-very-pious parishioners
will continue giving as
generously as current condi-
tions permit.—Tray Bit (Q.).
Shakspeare on TV
Some of the weaknesses of
the TV - presentation of
“Antony and Cleopatra” lay
in the constructional faults of
the play itself—or, at any rate,
in the adaptation of it—rather
than in any specific limitations
of TV (B. 15/7/’59).
For instance, to appreciate
what the play is about one
must know fairly well the
political background of the
time —the civil war between
Julius Csesar and Pompey, and
its outcome ; the situation at
Rome after the murder of
Caesar, and the fact that
Antony was the “heir apparent”
as dictator when there
appeared, from some rustic
part, the unknown “scarcp-
bearded boy” to claim Caesar’s
heritage with no position,
nothing, except that his great-
uncle, Caesar, had named him
his heir. One should know,
too, that in the background,
challenging Rome with a
pirate-fleet, was Sextus Pom-
peius, son of Pompey the
Great, who also felt that, as
Pompey’s son, he had the right,
being denied him, of high
position.
Without some knowledge of
this background, it is impos-
sible to understand the play.
1 know of several intelligent
viewers who, turned the play
off in the first half-hour or so
because they couldn’t follow it.
Yet one shouldn’t have to be
an expert on the period to
follow a historical play.
On the other hand, those
with but a little knowledge of
the times would be equally con-
fused. They would be tempted
to understand the character
“Caesar” to be Julius Caesar
and not the future Augustus,
while a similar confusion
would arise over “Pompey.”
The play in parts lacks
dramatic unity. When Pompey
is seen for the last time, his
chief lieutenant, Menas, is
urging him to murder the three
“world-sharers” (Caesar, Mark
Antony and Lepidus). who are
then wassailing aboard his
pirate-ship. Pompey will not
entertain such treachery
(though he does admit that, had
Menas done the deed first, he
would have “found it after-
wards well done”).
Soon afterwards Caesar and
Lepidus destroy Pompey,
though we hear of Pompey’s
end only in passing mention
by two of Antony’s associates ;
whereas his death obviously
should have been an important
part of the action.
Similarly, the naval battle of
Actium, which virtually decided
Antony’s fate, needs to be repre-
sented somehow or other on
stage. The full significance of
the battle—and of Cleopatra’s
infamous betrayal needs
more emphasis than the talk
between Enobarbus and one
or two other of Antony’s
soldiers.
Incidentally, speaking of
Enobarbus, the criticism that
most of the players garbled
their lines was valid ; but it did
not apply to Keith Goodlett’s
famous “Age cannot wither
her” declamation —in my
opinion . the highlight of the
film.—K. R. (N.S.W.).
Service-pensions
“Tock Emma” (B. 8/7/’59)
has things hopelessly mixed-up.
“Beechy Bill” (B. 24/6/’59)
was referring only to the
service-pension, which is the


age-pension granted five years
earlier to an old soldier on
account of war-service. It has
absolutely nothing to do with
the disability-pension drawn by
“Tock Emma,” which is in no
way dependent on the means-
test.
The means-test applies to the
service-pension in exactly the
same terms as to the age-
pension. The last paragraph
of “Tock Emma’s” article
clearly shows he is off the
beam. The service-pension is
not granted either for life or
year to year. It is granted for
the duration of such period as
the recipient is qualified under
the means-test. Under the
existing legislation, how could
it be otherwise?
It’s hard to see how the
Repatriation Department could
abolish the means-test review,
bound as it is by legislation.
“Beechy Bill” rather exag-
gerates the “formidable docu-
ment” aspect. Let me remind
him that “competent witness”
includes all R.S.L. sub-branch
secretaries. Any sub-branch
secretary will readily help with
Form 5.P.3 as well as witness-
ing it. In fact, it is part of his
job. I consider the “worry”
aspect of it is overemphasised,
too.
Just to assure “Tock Emma”
and “Beechy Bill” that I am
sure of my facts, I might add
that I receive both the age-
service - pension and the
disability-pension and have
served over five years as a sub-
branch secretary. Murray
Swagman (S.A.).
High-pressure Selling
When will some firms realise
that the high-pressure sales-
routine of some of their repre-
sentatives does not always bring
the desired result? And when
will something be done to
protect teenagers from these
overzealous salesmen?
My 16-year-old daughter, a
second - year hairdresser’s
apprentice on a small wage,
was persuaded to sign an order-
form for (of all things) a
cookery-book. It must indeed
be the cookery-book to end
all cookery-books as it was
priced at £5 ss. a copy. The
deposit was 55., with monthly
payments of £l.
On hearing about this I im-
mediately w"rote to the firm in
question and pointed out that
as my daughter is under-age I
am responsible for her debts
and have no intention of pay-
ing such a price for any
cookery-book. My letter w r as
ignored, and today the book
arrived.
Presumably the firm reckons
that most parents would go
ahead and pay once the article
had actually arrived, but not
this parent. I immediately
sent the book back and am
now awaiting their next move.
If anyone is wondering what
a £5 ss. cookery-book offers
in the way of recipes, I can’t
tell them I curbed my
womanly curiosity and didn’t
even take a peep. Moreover,
that is one firm I’ll never buy
books from again— Little
Boz (N.S.W.).
Wealth from the Sea
Years ago, in the remote
isles of Scotland’s Hebrides, I
feasted on the most delicious
potatoes it has been my lot to
enjoy. I found they had been
grown in peat-bog. Long
trenches, often extending for
miles across the hills, had been
dug, and the wet, black,
excavated turfs had then been
placed alongside the trenches.
Seaweed, earned up from the
shore in stout creels borne on
the backs of men, women and
children, was laid on the turfs ;
still more turfs were placed on
the seaweed and the potatoes
planted therein. The special
flavor of these island potatoes
was due, I was informed, to
the seaweed.
Long afterwards, I told a
keen Sydney gardener about
the use Hebrideans made of
seaweed. He decided to experi-
ment with it as manure. Later
he invited me to inspect his
sweet-peas, which he’d liberally
mulched with seaweed. Never
have I seen pea-flowers like
them. They covered a trellis
about 10ft. high, and the
blooms were so profuse
that scarcely a leaf was to be
seen.
I’m reminded of all this by
an article and some subsequent
correspondence in a Sydney
newspaper concerning the
nuisance caused by masses of
seaweed at Rose Bay. One
correspondent suggested that
the weed might be profitably
used as manure by Sydney
market-gardeners and instanced
the excellent results it gave
when used as.a mulch for straw-
berries.
But, quite apart from its
fertilising . value, seaweed —
certain types of it, at any rate
__i s a i so valuable as a food, no
doubt because of its signi-
flcai)t iodine-content. (In the
Heb , ides they made a whole-
and a tasty puddi ng
cal , e d carra _
, T * ,
S heen - ln > as <= and appearance
was not un V < .f macaroni anc *
was colloquially known as
Irish moss.)
Those preoccupied with the
problems of world food-
supplies—problems caused by
increased longevity and the
continued outsize birthrate in
Asiatic countries—believe that
if man is to be properly fed
in the comparatively near
future an immeasurably vaster
use must be made of the harvest
of the sea. Apparently many
types of ocean growth are rich
in food-value. It seems a pity
to waste' such valuable material
or to use it only as manure
when it could be employed for
all sorts of purposes. — Maitri
(N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 549
Across
I—One1 —One who paves the' way for a snake-stopper. (9)
s—Grave jump Virginia shortened last month. (5)
7—Rumpuses caused by a Yorkshire port, a university
graduate, and the Anita who wrote Gentlemen Prefer
Blondes. (11)
9 —Belonging to that woman. (3)
10 —A great lake is ordained a daydream. (7)
12 —The assets of the departed teasets are smashed. (7)
13 — Idiot North reduced income on
part of a ship. (10)
15—The two of us would become
matrimonified. (3)
18— State Clara Bow’s sex-appeal,
but don’t go! (4)
19— Bullet to be reformed, but it can
still injure a swimmer. (10)
21 — Beat some quarry fish. (7)
22 — Kiss the apex place to wait for
transport. (3-4)
23 Have now to be modified. (3)
24 — Rooster as missing from the cash
caper with an evil grin. (11)
26 — Facial canal to do the wrong
thing against you and me. (5)
27 Harming bite of a burrower. (9)
Down
1 — A river of hell gives a boy
pain. (7)
2 The old man is over 50,
buddy! (3)
3 An area of 160 perches on a
poet. (8)
4 Definite article holding the
indefinite nobleman. (5)
5 A half-dozen has a session
calls. (6)
6 A disease which very much
endangers a baby songster. (6)
8 — Laborious flower is to open
shortly. (7)
9 Sweltering figure with a baby is
black. (9)
11 —Tasman’s sponsor vehicle to kick
the bucket blokes. (3, 6)
14 — Friend taking a girl into an
ancient city of the Syrian
Desert. (7)
16— Russians using a firm’s bags. (8)
17— Game plea disturbed a French-
man. (4-4)
18 — Rolls about in mud let between
the West and the South legislation
brought up on moos. (7)
20 —Flora includes this sort of little
alligator with you and me. (6)
22 —Punt, requiring the Spanish nut’s
name. (5)
25—High priest of Shiloh. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 548.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
rickety old table of great
antiquity.
The Chief and “elders” sat
cross-legged on the floor in the.
middle, facing us, while the
islanders crowded the veranda-
door, and sat, three-deep,
around three sides of the room.
The lance-corporal and his
three prisoners - cum - police
took-up a strategic position
lined against the blank wall at
our backs, and proceedings
opened.
All hands wanted to contri-
bute to the tale of events, and
all argued, “kanaka fashion,”
a great deal amongst them-
selves. The upshot seemed to
be that, after brooding over
his wrongs, s Naulaci waited,
armed, one morning on a cliff
track, and when they appeared
shot his rival dead, and
“creased” the woman on the
head.
As Niccol afterwards re-
marked, “He must have been
almost on top of them, to get
two hits of that kind!”
Thinking he had killed them
both, Naulaci started back up
the track, and on being
met by some of the islanders,
who wanted to take him to the
Chief, immediately resisted
violently, and, furthermore,
threatened to shoot anybody
who tried to lay hands on him.
According to all the witnesses
he then disappeared, howling
threats, up the mountain. In
their opinion anyone silly
enough to go up after him
would most-certainly meet with
an untimely and violent death
before he reached the top!
All witnesses agreed on the
main story, and all eagerly
ratified the opinion that the
taking of Naulaci would most
certainly not be accomplished
without much bloodshed, and
violent death amongst the
forces of law and order. In
my own opinion, there was,
most certainly, “blood on the
moon”!
“Things don’t look too rosy,”
whispered Niccol, during a lull
in the proceedings. “We’d
better start before daylight.
With a bit of luck, we may
catch him off his guard. But
I very much doubt it!”
r pHE scene will always remain
■*- in my memory. The sides
and door opening onto the
veranda, and also the windows,
were packed, four- and five-
deep, with brown bodies,
glistening with coconut-oil. All
wore lava-lavas, or kilts of
“trade cotton,” and the
majority, out of deference to
“big feller Gov’ment,” wore
singlets.
All were in the intensely
excited state which most
kanakas show during any
court - proceedings, especially
when a murder or even women
in general are subjects at issue.
Eyes flashed in brown faces,
accompanied by animated
whisperings and nudgings. The
tropical heat was stifling, and
the pungent smell of perspir-
ing bodies almost over-
powering.
At last the inquiry was
brought to an end by Niccol
announcing that, as we had to
get an early start up the moun-
tain in the morning, we had
better get some sleep. As an
afterthought, with- the view of
finding-out which part, or side,
of the mountain the quarry
was supposed to be hiding on,
he asked the Chief (a very
imposing, dignified old gentle-
man), “Now, whereabouts is
Naulaci?”
At that moment I was look-
ing over the heads, through
the door —out through gently
swaying, graceful palm-trees to
the road of silver, laid by the
almost-full moon on the broad
bosom of the sleeping Pacific,
which seemed to stretch,
glistening, into infinity. The
thought flickered through my
mind that, possibly, I might
not see the beautiful silver
road again.
Shocks catch one in the least
expected places. My peaceful
view was suddenly cut-off by
the people sitting in the door-
way standing up and moving
to one side, as a strong, cheer-
ful voice suddenly announced:
“Me here, Masita” —and into
the circle stalked a beaming
savage!
A powerful-looking, thick-
set, black-bearded native, body
literally covered with black
hair, he advanced to the table
and held out his hand to
Niccol in friendly greeting. As
Niccol said to me afterwards,
“I got such a surprise, I shook
hands with the blighter.”
None of the audience showed
surprise or excitement, which
had me puzzled until I found
out that he had been squatting
outside the door, on the
veranda, all the time, listening
to the tale of his misdeeds!
His presence had been known
to everybody, but (such is the
kanaka nature) no one, not
even the Chief, notified us of
the fact, waiting, as it turned-
out afterwards, to see whether
Naulaci wanted his presence
known, by his own volition, as
it were!
TI/Tlen our stunned surprise
* had abated a little,
Niccol asked him why he had
fled up the mountain uttering
threats to all and sundry.
His reply was characteristic:
“Masita, you big feller Gov’-
ment! Suppose you want to
holdim me, him he proper
fashion. This ’nother feller,”
indicating the crowded room,
“he no Gov’ment, him he
nothing! This something, he
no bizzniss belong him. Sup-
pose he try to holdim me, me
bin killim him, dead-finish!
Me bin tellim him true fashion.
But you, Masita, belong
Gov’ment, you savvee proper
bizzness! Suppose Gov’ment
want to holdim me, me go
along you. He proper. But
this feller,” showing his indig-
nation by spitting on the floor,
“him he no bizzness belong him
at all! Me no want him maka
nonsense along me!”
Having been told that we
would have to take him to
Tanna in the morning and
send him to Vila by the next
steamer, Naulaci cheerfully
agreed that this was the correct
thing to do in the circum-
stances ; he seemed to be look-
ing forward to the adventure.
He slept that night in the house
of the Chief,, and gave no
trouble at all.
TVText day we held legal court,
during which the wife,
with bound-up head, basked in
the importance of the occasion,
and lied herself blind, and the
sympathies of the islanders
seemed to have completely
shifted in Naulaci’s favor,
including (tell it not in Gath!)
my own.
Soon afterwards we departed
by launch, followed for quite
a distance by a guard-of-honor
of canoes, filled with cheering
islanders—and the nine-days
wonder was over!
On the trip across to Tanna
Naulaci proved himself very
useful, and was, in fact, the
life and soul of the party.
Sent up to the administrative
capital, Vila, he was tried in
the Joint Court, and was sen-
tenced to seven years’ hard
labor. He worked-out most
of his sentence as gardener to
the British Resident Commis-
sioner at Government .House,
on the pretty little island of
Fila, situated in the harbor of
Port Vila itself. When his time
was up he was returned to
Fotuna in Burns, Philp’s local
steamer, and was there
accorded a classic welcome and
received with much acclaim by
the inhabitants . . .
After 15 years’ experience of
Pacific Islanders, and having
sojourned in many groups, I
still don’t pretend to know
which way the cat is going to
jump.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CATTLE-BREEDING
From “KAYTEE”
■jVTow that—here in Queens-
land —the show-season has
started and our rural wealth
is on display, it seems a good
time to consider just what
Australia possesses in the way
of cattle.
First, there’s no single breed
• —beef or dairy—entirely suit-
able to the greater part of our
cattle-country—the north and
north-west of the Common-
wealth. Of the many breeds
available there isn’t one with
the necessary conformation
and temperament, resistance to
heat and external parasites, and
ability to walk long distances
for grass and water.
In short, there’s none able to
thrive and produce under
adverse conditions. All breeds
possess some of these virtues
to a greater or lesser degree,
but none of them has the lot.
One remarkable aspect is that
there are none of the Danish
Red breed in Australia, though
Lambing losses must
always remain a source
of anxiety to wool-
growers, particularly
when facts show that
the majority of lambs
lost die either at birth
or during the 72 hours
immediately following.
Australian animal phy-
siologists are giving
increasing attention to
this vital stage of
development, and many
outstanding contribu-
tions have been made
to our understanding of
the problems involved.
Lamb losses occasioned
by setback, fly strike
and other diseases are
considrrably reduced
with the use of Elas-
trator Rubber Rings for
castrating and tailing.
Because they eliminate
blood loss and open
wounds, Elastrator
Rubber Rings provide a
highly satisfactory, safe,
humane method of
castration and tailing.
these cattle are the best dairy-
breed in the world.
The reason this general
situation' exists in a country
which exports so much dairy-
produce, and exports beef to
a greater extent than any other
country, is because we judge
our cattle by unrealistic stan-
“Ever since her engagement she's had butterflies
in the pouch!”
dards. Or it may be because
we are inclined to cling to out-
moded tradition, like eating hot
turkey and plum-pudding in
December. There’s no other
way to explain why we breed
white-faced cattle here, where
a white face is often a definite
liability, or encourage cattle
with black coats and shaggy
red and roan coats —the last
things wanted in a hot climate.
The many herd-societies, and
also the show-societies, must
take a share of blame for this.
They have educated cattlemen
to believe that animals must
be selected and judged by
showring standards, which
are unreal. Cattle are bred for
economic purposes, so they
should be judged by economic
standards.
That fact, though funda-
mental, doesn’t seem to be
recognised. Too often for the
good of the cattle-industry the
beast judged as champion at
an agricultural show is merely
the only outstanding member
of a particular herd. When this
happens the herd in question
acquires a false reputation for
excellence.
If we are to make any pro-
gress in breeding cattle we
must recognise that single out-
standing animals are not
wanted. The answer is develop-
ment of whole herds of above-
average producers, since only
by using cattle from such
herds can we expect steady
improvement in our livestock.
If the champion-ribbon is to
be worth anything, it must be
awarded for the production-
performances of the exhibits’
progeny. This may' sound
impractical, but if it was tried
there would be many empty
stalls at shows, until breeders
improved their herds.
As a good example of what
can be expected of a system
of breeding aimed at produc-
ing outstanding individuals,
consider the results with race-
horses, where the aim is to
produce an outstanding indi-
vidual. How many of these
star-individuals pass their
characteristics on to their pro-
geny? And for every cham-
pion produced, how many
moderates are bred, many of
which never see a racetrack?
Some cattle-breeders seem to
pursue a policy similar to that
of the racehorse-breeder, and
as a result the blue-ribbons
awarded at the moment only
indicate that the champion is
the best - looking animal
exhibited in its class. Its
economic value to a herd may
be nil.
The development of the
Danish Red breed is an
example of what can be
achieved in animal-breeding
from a programme based upon
realistic values. The Danes,
who are intensely practical,
appreciated that if they were
going to feed cows to produce
milk they had better develop a
breed that would put a lot of
it in the bucket. They got the
geneticists to discover if there
was any correlation between
physical-type and production-
capacity. It was found that
the only existing correlation
was that big cows will gener-
ally produce more than small
ones. In the light of this infor-
mation breeders began to base
their selection of animals on
good constitution and high
production, excluding all else.
The result was the Danish Red
breed.
Perhaps Danish Reds are the
ugliest breed ever calved, but
they are a great economic
proposition. Unfortunately,
owing to the embargo on
importation of cattle from over-
seas, it’s not possible to intro-
duce this breed into Australia,
and even if it were possible they
might not be entirely suitable.
However, if a logical approach
is made to the problem there’s
no reason why a similar, and
perhaps even more suitable,
breed can’t be developed in
Australia.
Already, in North Queens-
land, a few breeders of beef-
cattle recognise the lack of a
suitable breed for the tropics
and are tackling the problem.
These cattlemen have formed
the Tropical Cattle Breeders’
Association and aim to pro-
duce a breed entirely suitable
for the tropics, embodying all
the best of the British, Zebu
and Santa Gertrudis breeds.
So far their work has been
encouraging, but their efforts
are hampered by the average
cattleman’s prejudice against
any color not traditionally
associated with British breeds.
The breeders’ success in con-
formation, temperament, resist-
ance to parasites and heat, and
general ability to thrive has
been amazing. It’s a pity that
some of these excellent charac-
teristics may be lost in the
search for a traditional color.
In America, some years ago,
breeders of Zebu cattle faced
a similar color-problem and
introduced red into their
Zebus at the expense of more
important factors. American
cattlemen failed to appreciate
that the Zebu’s white coat and
black-pigmented skin is one of
the reasons that it is resistant


Tasmanian lYlerireos
THE BACKBONE OF THE FINE WOOL INDUSTRY
A great majority of the high-priced clips of Australia owe their success to the infusion of
TASMANIAN SAXON MERINOS
RHODES”
“WINTON”
“VALLEYFIELD”
“KENILWORTH”
“ROSENEATH”
“PLEASANT BANKS”
INSPECT Stud and Selected Rams at the forthcoming Melbourne Sheepbreeders Show from
FAMOUS TASMANIAN STUDS
Australian Seasonal Wool Records were again established by clips using sires from members of the
Tasmanian Fine Merino Breeders’ Association
Phone: Launceston 2 1121.
/. S. MILLEN, Secretary,
1-21 St. John Street,
Launceston, TASMANIA.
to heat. Australian Zebu-
breeders are facing the same
problem now.
This prejudice against white
or light colors is not based on
any logical reasoning. The
usual reason given for not
liking these colors is: they
don’t look as good as the
darker ones. This might be
valid if cattle were bred for
aesthetic purposes, but I’ve yet
to see a meatworks-buyer or
butcher pay extra money
because an animal looks pretty.
Such buyers are only interested
in what they pay for —and
that’s under the hide.
I’m not advocating that the
breeds we know should be
abolished. They are all we
possess at the moment, and the
British breeds would be hard
to beat in some parts of the
country. All the same, I think
that a more realistic method
should be used in selecting
breeding-stock. Points to be
watched are: ability to sur-
vive ; ability to convert grass
into meat or milk ; ability, to
reproduce its kind in its
environment, and ability to
transmit good characteristics
on to its progeny. This means
putting the showr-ing award
in the proper place—for the
nicest -looking animal exhibited
in a class.
Perhaps showring standards
ensure uniformity of type
within a breed, but let’s never
sacrifice production-ability for
uniformity, if increasing pro-
duction means altering type.
Melbourne
Sheep Show
Entries for the 77th annual
show of the Australian
Sheepbreeders’ Association, to
be held at Melbourne Show-
grounds this Friday (July 31)
and Saturday, constitute a
record —1380 sheep have been
entered for exhibition.
Judging-day is Friday, and
entries comprise 476 Merino
(superfine, line, medium, strong
and polled), 127 Polwarth, 200
Corriedale, 54 Poll Dorset and
523 British Breeds (122 Border
Leicester, 82 Romney Marsh,
131 Dorset Horn, 48 Ryeland,
65 Cheviot, 66 Southdown and
representative exhibits of Lin-
coln and Shropshire).
Fourteen groups of five
Merino sheep (three rams and
two ewes) and 17 groups of
three Merino sheep (a ram and
two ewes) have been entered
for the Lionel Weatherly Per-
petual Trophy and Victorian
Stud Merino Sheepbreeders’
Trophy respectively. The
groups will be judged on Satur-
day.
The show is to be opened by
Miss Nancy M. Sanders,
Director of Promotion, Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau, follow-
ing a mannequin-parade which
is being staged by the bureau.
Bamboo
“Billjim”: While bamboo
makes a good windbreak or
shelter - belt (for a double-
fenced shelter-belt Pseudasasa
japonica thin-stemmed and
quick-spreading —is best, be-
cause its spread can be kept in
check by stock eating its young
roots), New Zealand agrono-
mist J. C. Gerlach recommends
it for even wider consideration
on the farm.
He points out that in Japan
1400 different uses of bamboo
have been discovered and that
its use in the U.S.A. is also
increasing. Bamboo, with a
crushing-strength of 64001 b., is
superior in that particular
way to most N.Z. timber,
and, being light and easily
handled, is especially suit-
able for scaffolding. Also it’s
the quickest-growing timber in
the world.
In experiments at the
Rukuhia Station a lath-house
with a floor-space of 144 sq.-ft.
was constructed of bamboo.
The price of material worked-
out at Is. 7d. a sq.-ft., and
the whole building cost 2s. 9d.
a sq.-ft. Such a lath-house
is useful for a nurseryman or
market-gardener, because the
lattice-work keeps out light
frosts —and with a covering
of plastic will resist heavy
frosts. In addition, young
plants and cuttings are kept in
an airy condition, without risk
of damage by high winds ; the
intensity of sunlight is halved
by the lattice-work; and the


DINGO
DESTRUCTION
No. 14 “ONEIDA"
JUMP TRAP
n In.
0 WOjj
Jaws
Outstanding efficiency as Dingo
catcher, well established. Available
from woolbroking houses through-
out Australia.
Further particulars from
R. J. MURPHY,
Box 555, G.P.0., Townsville, Q.
Sole Agent for Australia.
T utor/Book-keeper
Retired Army Officer, ex
Army Schoolteacher, seeks
post teaching children and
keeping accounts. Outback
or country, any State, for
family or community
moderate salary.
Box No. 297,
C/o Bulletin, 252 George St.,
SYDNEY.
whole house can be readily
dismantled and re-erected.
; *
Humpty Doo
“Umbigumbi”: Humpty
Doo (N.T.) is generally con-
nected with rice ; but, in fact,
the property is primarily a
cattle - station where the
Herbert brothers run wild,
half-Brahma cattle, which are
handled by native stockmen.
The original homestead is
still in use, with about the
largest extant pile of “dead
marines” outside the back-
garden fence —a memorial to
the thirst of bygone home-
steaders. The Adelaide River,
which forms the property’s
eastern boundary, was crossed
by the earliest pioneers, who
left stone, fortress-like build-
ings behind them.
On the river-plains, where
ricefields are to be planted,
nothing now grows except
kerosene-grass, so tall that it
gives a horseman complete
cover from view. Six special
harvesters have been imported
by Territory Rice, Ltd., to
harvest their first large crop
from the 2800 acres in har-
vest ; they expect to reap
£ 112,000-worth of rice.
Codling-moth
“Amiens”: The codling-
moth generally attacks apples,
but occasionally goes for pears,
quinces and walnuts as well.
Here in Queensland two
broods are hatched each year.
The first batch is laid on the
leaves, and larvre enter the
fruit at the calyx end ; the next
brood gets in at the sides,
especially at the point of con-
tact of two apples, and works
into the core, eating an irregu-
lar passage, and causing the
fruit to fall before maturity.
The larvae, full-grown in a
month, leave the fruit and
pupate under pieces of rough
bark or in cracks in the limbs
of the trees. After 14 days,
the moth emerges, and again
begins the life-cycle.
Control can only be achieved
by spraying and strict atten-
tion to orchard-hygiene.
The first spraying, given
when the flower-petals have
fallen and the fruit is begin-
ning to swell, aims to prevent
larvae entering through the
calyx. The spray Consists of
2|lb. arsenate-of-lead powder,
|gal. white-oil and 80gals.
water.
Timing of cover-sprays
depends on the fact that moths
are sometimes more numerous,
so that large numbers of eggs
are laid and larvas hatched.
To control these, spraying
should be done a few days
after the peak of such activity.
The orchardist can determine
these periods by placing, glass
traps containing a lure made
from cheap wine and water
amongst his trees. These
should be examined twice each
week, and if the number of
moths caught exceeds an aver-
age of one a trap and then
decreases, the peak will have
been passed, and spraying
should be done within the next
10 days.
If luring is impracticable,
cover-sprays should be given
four or five times a season, at
intervals of about three weeks
from application of the first
spray. Mix l|gal. white-oil
and lpt. nicotine-sulphate with
80gals. water for a spray
which, in one operation, con-
trols codling-moth, woolly-
apple-aphid, red-mite, apple-
leaf-hopper and scale-insects.
Some orchardists use a
0.1 per cent. D.D.T. spray
instead, but if’s best to retain
calyx-spraying, especially now
that the moth seems immune
to D.D.T.
Tree-bandaging, in conjunc-
tion with spraying, is another
good method of control. A
strong hessian bandage, sin.
wide, is tightly wound around
each tree-trunk, and held in
position by a nail. Many
larvae, leaving the fruit to
pupate, collect under these, and
are destroyed.
To make this method more
effective, loose bark should be
removed, and crevices filled
with clay or putty. In recent
years many orchardists have
taken to using corrugated-
cardboard bands. Treated with
a solution of lib. beta-napthol
in lipt. mineral-oil, they kill
the larvae before pupation.
These bandages need replacing
in mid-January, and should
be removed and destroyed any
time after early May.
Collect and destroy all wind-
falls, and examine flooring-
boards, packing-benches and
empty cases in the sheds for
larvae. Kill these with boiling
water, waste sump-oil or
miscible red-oil at a strength
of 1 in 5.
Cocksfoot Impurities
. “Billjim”: Experiment in
N.Z. shows that many of the
empty glumes present in cocks-
foot-seed may be removed
without much loss in good
seed. Tests were made with
an adjustable air-blast, and
four lines were used, with
purities ranging from 56 per
cent, to 67 per cent.
The average purity of the
lines before treatment was
62.9 per cent., with 34.6 per
cent, inert matter, mostly
empty glumes. The weakest
blast raised the average purity
to 70.5 per cent., the next 79.1
per cent., the next to 85.5 per
cent, and the strongest to 90
per cent
All seeds under the blowings
were tested for germination.
With the stronger blasts the
average content of germinat-
ing seeds removed was 1.5 per
cent., representing a loss of
about 0.3 per cent.
Planning Shelter
“Big Billy”: Shelter-belts
of pine and cypress lose their
effect when protecting-fences
are placed too close to the
trees. Stock quickly get at the
young trees and destroy the
lower branches. If a wider
gap is allowed between fences
this won’t happen. Of course
many farmers aren’t prepared
to give-up a piece of land
nearly half-a-chain wide for a
row of trees —and they’re
sometimes just as parsimoni-
ous about ploughing fire-
breaks.
Plant trees Bft. to 12ft.
apart, depending on the final
size they will reach. Where
single-row cover is required,
bamboo, poplar or even box-
thorn are effective. Planting
-in a gully or depression gives
good ground-shelter, even
though the trees may be bare
at ground-level.
It’s a good idea, too, to plant
a block of trees on the banks
of creeks, where these inter-
sect a property, even if they
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(16/7/’59)
Most of Queensland should have moderate to good rains
during August, although falls may he light on the Curtis
division and the central-coast and far-western districts.
Well-distributed rains for the rest of the year should ensure
a good season in much of the State.
N.S.W. should receive moderate to good rains during
August, although rainfall may be light on the South Coast
and in the far-western districts. Best falls are indicated on
the south-west slopes and Riverina. Good rains should con-
tinue for the remainder of the year; heavy falls in November
may cause flooding.
Victoria should have good general rains during August,
with heaviest falls on the central, north-eastern and western
divisions. There may be flooding in the southern half of
the State. Good rains should continue for the rest of the
year.
Good rains should fall on the agricultural areas of
South Australia during August, although rainfall may be
only light to moderate in the Murray Valley and the - west-
coast districts. Patchy in the interior, with good rains in
October.
In Western Australia there should be good rains in
the agricultural areas during August, and moderate rain
should continue during September and October. Rainfall
may be patchy and below normal elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
Wrile for our
50lh Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
don’t run in the right direction
for shelter. Such planting
will hold the banks and pro-
vide shade for watering stock
in summer. ,
This gully-planting provides
shelter for the rest of the pad-
dock, divides land that can
be tilled from that too steep,
and helps to control weeds.
Eucalypts are good in such
situations, but willows should
be avoided, because the roots
can interfere with drainage.
A common mistake in plan-
ning shelter-belts is over-
crowding. If Lawson-cypress
or macrocarpa are planted too
close to a line of pines they
may be smothered by the pines
and so become spindly and
lose their shelter-value. It’s
also a mistake to trim macro-
carpa or pines too severely.
Canecufters
“X”: The canecutting
harvester (B. 8 / 7 / ’59) is some-
thing long overdue. But what
will happen to canecutters and
those business - people and
others who have relied on the
employment of thousands?
Unless canecutting labor is
successfully diverted or
absorbed elsewhere Queens-
landers will feel the pinch. So
will many southerners who go
north for the canecutting-
season.
An Ayr (N.Q.) man invented
a good ratooning-machine to
plough back rock-like cut
cane-stems into the soil years
ago. It worked well, too, on
his own farm.
Sheep Poisoning
“Freddie”: You can use
carbon-tetrachloride for years
without trouble —then, all of a
sudden, yah find sheep dead
in the paddock. These losses
are common in country
deficient in lime. A good salt-
and bonemeal-lick will over-
come the deficiency and make
carbon-tetrachloride safer to
use.
Sheep fed on scrub, particu-
larly during a drought, are
often wiped-out by the drench.
So are show-sheep fed heavily
on grain. Losses also occur
when sheep are drenched after
being driven long distances,
especially in wet and cold
Weather.
It’s a good idea to try a few
from the mob first. If these
show no ill-effects it’s safe to
try the others. Drench them
in the mornings and hold them
overnight. If everything is
normal in the morning go ahead
with the others. The main
mob should be drenched as
early in the day as possible.
Hold them until the afternoon
to make sure none sicken.
Then turn them back into the
paddock they came from.
There’s no sure farm-cure
for carbon-tet. poisoning, but
injections of calcium-boro-
gluconate are worth trying.
You have to be quick, though,
because sheep can die suddenly.
Copper
“Sundowner”: Copper, an
important trace-element, pre-
vents steely-woo! and ataxia
developing in calves; also, it
increases lambing-percentages
by reducing the number of
weak- lambs. On land used
only for grazing it’s enough to
add a copper-supplement, but
on permanent pasture of high
carrying-capacity or on crop-
ping-areas it’s best to apply it
with fertiliser.
Sheep need 7.5mg.-10mg. a
day, or 50z.-Boz. bluestone for
each 1000 sheep a week, as a
supplement. For topdressing, a
single application of 71b. an
acre will generally give
adequate dosage for 10 years.
Cost comes into any question
of whether or not to use trace-
elements. For topdressing,
using half a bag of copperised
super, an acre, the entire charge
for copper will be 9s. an acre
for five years, or Is. 9d. an
acre a year—ls. or less for
each sheep. Drenching, using
Boz. each 1000 sheep a week on
a fortnightly basis, will cost
about 4s. 4d., or on a monthly
basis, half this, for each
sheep a year, including labor-
charges. This expenditure will
be amply repaid in greater
growth of feed, healthier stock
and better wool.
Since copper is poisonous in
excess, use of supplements
cannot be recommended unless
there is an undoubted defi-
ciency. Topdressing is the
safest method to use on any
area where a deficiency is sus-
pected but not proven. Con-
stant drenching can produce
chronic copper-poisoning.
The Tree-tomato
“North”: A perennial grow-
ing to about 20ft., the tree-
tomato, with its reddish-orange
fruit, does well from Sydney
northwards, preferring rich,
well-drained soil and a
sheltered position in full sun-
light.
It is best sown in spring
when danger of frost is past —
September t o November,
according to locality. When
the seedlings are lin. high,
prick them out into pots or
tins. Then, when they are 8in.
tall, transplant them into their
permanent positions, spaced at
least 10ft. apart.
The tree bears within 12
months and its fruit is a good
substitute for the tomato. It
may be cooked or eaten raw,
and is good in salads, jams or
jellies.
Crosscuts
“Bronco”: Inquiries have
come from Germany about the
suitability of buffalo-meat for
sausages and salami, as Ger-
mans are thinking of importing
meat from Darwin for that
purpose. Another European
commercial concern has been
asking whether buffalo-meat is
as tough as the donkey-meat
now in use. About 6000 buffs
will be on their way this year
out of the Territory for the
foreign meat-market. Three
stations are catching and tam-
ing buffaloes —and. the demand
seems to be increasing rapidly.
“Hang Me”: A factory is to
be erected at Garainay Experi-
mental Station —100 miles from
Port Moresby—where tea,
grown in New Guinea, will be
processed. It’s hoped that the
Territory tea-industry will be
built-up to bring in about
million a year.
“C.A.A.”: A new American
machine applies granular herbi-
cides for control of annual
weeds during planting. Meter-
ing the herbicide, which it
spreads along the crop and
works into the soil-surface, the
apparatus mounts in front of
the tractor, while the regular
planter is drawn behind.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; £ year —£1 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; $ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy, for museum-collection,
stallion bar-bit with hinged jaws;
also, genuine Condamine horse-bell
and any unusual bridle-bits. —■
6851.
Twelve copies of Nicholson’s
Parish Psalter, any condition.—*
6853.
Copy of The Far Country, by
Nevil Shute.—6Bs2.
Three books by Kenneth (“Sea-
forth”) MacKenzie: The Young
Desire It, Chosen People and Dead
Men Rising. —6Bss.
The Burglar, the Child and the
Dolls’ House, by “F. Anstey.” —*
6849.
Two books by J. J. Hardie:
Pastoral Symphony and Lantana. —
6850.
Does Anybody Know?
Where to get a small grist-mill,
suitable for grinding wheat and
rice? An imported model costs
£l9; is there anything cheaper? —
6854.
Information Supplied
(From H. A. Lindsay): Post-
script to the advice about using
the Writers' and Artists’ Year Book
as a guide (B. 8/ 7/ ’59) —before
posting a short-story or an article
to any periodical mentioned in the
book check-up with your news-
agent to see that the particular
magazine is still functioning.
Since 1945 hundreds of maga-
zines in the English-speaking world
have folded-up; sending anything
to their former addresses is risky.
And what an editor says in reply
to an inquiry from the publisher
of a reference-work might be quite
different to what he can, or will, do.
Editors describing themselves as
“always ready to welcome a new
writer” do not always publish
original work.
Years of experience (and some
expensive lessons) have taught me
never to send anything to a periodi-
cal which doesn’t print, somewhere
in its pages, a clear statement that
it is willing to receive contribu-
tions. Easiest way to find possible
markets is to look through periodi-
cals in a big shop until you come
across one with original contribu-
tions of the type which you know
you can write. And don’t be
afraid to have a shot at some
of the top periodicals, provided
you really have something to offer.
It’s often easier to get a story or
article accepted by a magazine
which pays from £5O upwards than
one offering a good deal less.
Information Sought
What is an anticline ?
It is a fold in the earth’s crust.
The beds are folded along a
definite axis, from which they dip
away on both sides to form an
arch or “saddle,” though this is
always destroyed by weathering.
Unless terminated by a fault, the
folding gradually dies-out as it runs
across country. It may form low,
wide undulations, often over a wide
area, or a series of sharp curves.
* * * *
Is there a legend that the striking
of 13 by the clock of St. Paul’s,
London, once saved the life of a
condemned man ?
Yes. In June, 1770, there
appeared in the London “Public
Advertiser” an obituary notice
recording the death at 102 of one
John Hatfield. The notice stated
that during the reign of William
and Mary he bad been court-
martialled on a charge of having
been asleep while on sentry-duty
on the terrace at Windsor. Despite
his vehement denial, in support of
which he claimed that he had heard
the clock strike 13, he was found
guilty and condemned to death.
But while he was awaiting execu-
tion an affidavit was made by
several persons that they had also
heard the clock strike 13, whereupon
he received the King’s pardon.
* * * *
Do cotoneasters stand up to hard
conditions ? If there is more than
one sort available, which of them
are the best ? Any o'ther points
about them ?
Among our most useful garden-
shrubs, cotoneasters (pronounced
cot-o-neasters) do well in every
climate but tropical, standing up
to the toughest conditions. They
can be used either for specimen-
plants (if allowed to go unchecked
they will grow up to about 16ft.) or
as hedges. Of the 12 softs avail-
able, 10 are evergreen, and these
include the best. They are Serotina,
which has long pendulous branches
covered by bunches of white
blooms followed by masses of
brilliant red berries. It is a tall
grower, as is Parneyii, which also
has red berries and large foliage
which colors well in autumn; and
Pannosa, which has long slender
branches with silvery foliage and’
red berries. One of the best for
hedges is Franchetti, which has a
pendulous habit and orange berries.
The low-growing, compact types
suitable for rock-work include
Horizontalis wilsonii, which has
small leaves, and Thymifolia, which
has tiny leaves and has red berries
which appear in winter.
* * * *
(1) How to prepare fish for
smoking ? (2) How to do the
smoking ?
(1) Fish should be fresh out of
the water. After scaling or scrap-
ing (according to kind) and
removing viscera, cut-off heads and
split the fish open, with ribs and
backbone on one, side. Dry well
with a cloth, and rub-in salt. Thread
on a line or lay over a strong
string. (2) Amateur smoking is a
bit difficult. The fish has to be
subjected for some hours to strong
smoke from clean wood, chips or
bark from non-poisonous plants.
This may be done by stringing the
fish in an upturned box over a
smoky fire, leaving a space at the
bottom edge for ventilation. Only
experience will tell you when it’s
had enough smoke. If there’s a
stack of fish you’ll need a small
room, with a flue from a smoky fire
leading into it, and some ventilation
to let out the smoke more slowly
than it enters. The fish shotrid be
suspended in rows. Store in
cool, dry conditions; experiment
first with a small batch.
Brief Answers
J.R.: Yes; but make sure the
muriatic-acid solution is pretty
weak and the path is liberally
doused with water A.S.M.:
In The American Language
H. L. Mencken describes the word
“ballyhoo” as “characteristically
American, signifying the harangue of
a ballyhoo man, or spieler (i.e.,
barker), before a cheap show, or,
by metaphor, any noisy speech. It
is from Ballyhooly, a village in
Co. Cork, Ireland, once notorious
for its brawls.”... .8.F.C.: John
Thomas Lang, ex-Premier of
N.S.W., was born on Dec. 21,
1876 8.V.0.: Arrack is a bever-
age made in Indonesia from fer-
mented rice, coconut-juice or other
vegetable substances. At its best
it is transparent and the color of
straw, and has a peculiar but agree-
able taste and smell. It contains
slightly over 50 per cent, of alcohol.
D.N.P.: It is unlikely that an
aged pepper-tree would survive
transplanting... .G.M.K.: We’d
need to know the voltage of the
generator before we could give you
an answer... .H.F.R.: There are
many versions of the origin of the
cricket-term “hat-trick,” all of them
dubious; the most likely, however,
is that the bowler who took wickets
with three successive balls was given
a hat as a memento. Nowadays
the ball used in the feat is mounted
and presented to the bowler
“Daw”: Unable to recommend the
investment mentioned without see-
ing an actual agreement. It is
understood that many agreements
are not in the best interests of
investors, especially as regards the
means of liquidating the investment
and the legal commitments actually
accepted by the co T.L.: Very
hard to assess value b'y correspond-
ence ; the only way is to see the
coin. Your Queen Victoria crown,
if in very fine condition, would be
valued at 2os. Often a person
may have a coin which he con-
siders is in good condition, but the
only way to check is to show it to
a collector.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
L.J.P.: After sparring with that
boxing-story with the unlikeliest
set of characters we’ve met for years
we tossed-in the towel P.L.8.:
Your detective who salts his obser-
vations with sayings of La Roche-
foucauld seems to be our old friend
Charlie Chan transposed to Occi-
dental realms C.V.L.: The
drunk who wandered into the
wrong hotel-bedroom was gently
conducted, as an old and valued
friend, into the w.p.b J.M.:
Yes, yes, we’ve met all too often
that schoolboy who was able to
solve a murder-case that had
“baffled the most brilliant minds
of the C. 1.8.”... .C.C.F.: That
type of melodramatic story that
made Grandpa’s walrus mo. spring
to the vertical won’t stand disinter-
ment S.G.S.: Your poem about
the “sweating wharflaborers”
touched us deeply; now what about
having a go at an Ode To Over-
worked Senators? ... .8.5.: Such a
story would have no interest out-
side your family-circle... .V.8.D.:
We might have, swallowed the pick-
pocket winning the lottery with the
proceeds of his loot, but when you
tried to reform him that was the
finish....L.C.F.: Well, we’ll give
you a leg-up on your Pegasus:
She pointed the finger of scorn at him.
Quoth she, “You are a dastardly cur!
I fling back your threats in your teeth,
Bill,
Don’t you come an inch nearer!”


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2Jr
Yearly Subscription .. 22J6
New Recordings
Annie and Danny
Coronet’s 12in. Anna Russell
—“A Practical Banana Promo-
tion” on one side, “The French
Horn” and “Poetry in the
Cellar” on the other (KLP74I)
—and their lOin. Danny Kaye
with eight assorted titles
(KLPO26) arrived together,
with curious results.
Danny working on “Anatole
of Paris” or “The Fairy
Pipers,” with eight hands, six
legs, three mouths and those
seven astonishing eyes, is one
thing on the stage, but only
about half that on the record ;
whereas Annie —well, without
saying she’s better if you can't
see her, although there’s so
much of her on the stage, you
don’t miss her on the record.
People laugh just the same.
Anybody who saw her in
action during her last visit to
Australia will agree on this:
without anyone raising laugh-
placards behind her, she keeps
the customers cachinating;
and the wails and howls of
laughter that punctuate every
phrase of this record may just
as well be genuine.
The banana side of her
record is an address to v an
advertising convention on how
to make the public banana-
prone ; and with its pops.-
commercial to a West Indies
tune, beginning
Eta banana, it’s very nice,
Eta banana, it’s my advice.
It makes you so lovely and
feminine —
Be careful you don’t slip on the
skin
it leaves you wondering how
radio- and TV-advertising can
survive such fooling. But then,
listen to the crowd laughing
at the “subliminal” ads. she
works into the background of
a straight aria they are
probably broadcast plug-lines
well known in America—and
there the laughter is half-
affectionate.
There is also great joy in
her lecture on the French-
horn, taking in considerations
not usual to music lectures,
such as dripping the pipes clean
on the carpet. Her remarks on
“Poetry in the Cellar” —
a survey of beatnik verse
read to extraordinary accom-
paniments—are not so hilarious,
maybe because American
poetry-of-the-future is funny
enough.
As a competitor with Danny,
Annie is a little unfair in that
she imports a certain subliminal
quality into everything she
does ; in the laughter she pro-
vokes there is always the
delight of people seeing some-
thing that isn’t there ; whereas
Danny’s fooling is exactly
what he shows you and no
more.
Maybe, Danny’s quiet,
accurate satire on “Fairy
Piper,” his imitation French
in “Anatole of Paris,” or his
plangent Yankee in “Dinah”
are quite as i destructive as
Annie’s; they are certainly
smoother. But, whereas you
may suspect that Annie could
give with a serious aria very
impressively if she tried, there
is no real joy in hearing Danny
singing “Eileen” straight.
$>
Trombones
Some finely tooled brass-
playing is to be had on
Coronet KS-310 —a 7in., 45
r.p.m. job on which the Kai
Winding Trombones play
Rodgers’s “Manhattan” and
Fisher's “Cha Cha Chicago,”
the latter another old tune face-
lifted with the modish Latin-
American rhythm. Both
numbers are done repetitiously,
but with admirable aplomb
and, for the blarily uncertain
slide-instrument, astonishing
accuracy and evenness.
‘‘S'
Salt-spray Songs
The Norman Euboff choir,
whom one last recalls singing
about boll-weevils and camp-
ground, has forsaken its usual
landlubberly subjects and
turned seawards with a 7in.,
45 r.p.m. Coronet disk titled
Songs of the Sea.
Old salts expecting bar-room
gruffness will be disappointed.
Norman and his boys might
be lost when it comes to identi-
fying the mizzen tops’l, but
they succeed in bringing grace,
style and polish to these old
numbers—“ Shenandoah,” for
instance, is carefully and deli-
cately rendered ; so is “Good-
bye, Fare Ye Well.” In “Blow
the Man Down” there is a
delicious harmonic effect in the
second line of the refrain —
a sharpened tonic-note in the
tenor part. Other songs in-
clude “One More Day” and
another equally charming song
about Boston. —A. W.
* ❖ *
Waltzes
There is really very little
fresh to say about well-known
waltzes, except, in the case of
relatively unfamiliar per-
formers, to examine the style
of presentation. Even at that,
one can say little about
Coronet’s World’s Favorite
Waltzes (Eugene Ormandy and
the Philadelphia) except that,
as may be expected with such
a group, the 3/4 beat never had
it better. You’ll find two
Strauss waltzes the “Blue
Danube” and the “Emperor”
* as well as Waldteufel's
“Skaters’ ” waltz, Lehav’s
“Merry Widow,” Weber’s “In-
vitation to the Dance” and
Tschaikowsky’s waltz from the
“Serenade for Strings.”—A. W.
THE HOLLIDAYS
"Now, you come down out of there and play that game of bridge with the Mossops!”


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Not in years has there been such an
exciting or glamorous first-night at the
Princess Theatre as the premiere of the
Danny Kaye show. The red carpet was
down for the Governor, who was accom-
panied by his son-in-law and daughter,
Mr. and Mrs. Robin Byrne. Also in the
official party were Acting Premier Arthur
Rylah and Mrs. Rylah, and the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Sir Frederick
and Lady Thomas. They were received
by Mr. and Mrs. Garnet Carroll and
their son John. Mrs. Byrne wore a
theatre-coat of scarlet velvet over a slim
frock of white brocade scattered with
opalescent stones. Mrs. Carroll’s choice
was a short frock and matching full-
backed coat in palest pink and gold
brocade which had bands of sable on
the sleeves. Of royal-blue crystal organza
was Mrs. Rylah’s frock. Lady Thomas
covered her short frock of mint-green
re-embroidered lace with a white mink
stole.
It was quite a family-night. Sir Frank
and Lady Tait brought their daughters
Isla, Ann and Sally. With Mr. and Mrs.
Eric Rogers were their daughters Paulette
and Sally. Mrs. Erl Gray was accom-
panied by her daughter Merrin, and with
Mrs. Bruce Hallows was her daughter
Lucille. Another family-party comprised
Mr. and Mrs. John Carrodus, their son
Robert and daughter Suzanne. Mrs.
Carrodus wore a lovely floral-patterned
white polished-cotton frock which also
had organza flowers scattered over the
skirt. Suzanne looked pretty in an
ensemble which comprised a red pinafore
and white blouse, and halo of red and
white flowers.
☆ ☆ *
The bounding energy which marked
his hour and more on stage was carried-
over by Danny to the after-show party
—and what a party! —given at Chevron
by the Garnet Carrolls, and at 2.45 he
was still dancing gaily. Greatly admired
were the supper-tables, with their rich
variety of food and their lovely wattle-
blossom decoration. Among the guests
were Federal Treasurer Harold Holt and
Mrs. Holt (her lovely full-length gown
was of white satin splashed with large
pink peony roses); Mrs. Len Buxton
(her faille frock patterned in cinnamon-
brown and apricot roses, and her long
fur stole dyed apricot to match); Mrs.
Louis Sallmann (who chose a blue
ensemble, with the fox-collar on her
theatre-coat dyed a matching blue); and
Mrs. Bernard Dowd (in frock and
matching-coat in pale-lime sik-taffeta).
At the civic reception given by the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress for the
famous entertainer both host and guest-
of-honor were in sparkling speech-form.
Danny was presented with a large koala-
bear for his daughter Dena, and he
promptly invited all present to squat on
the floor because they had been standing
so long. The Administrator of Tas-
mania, Sir Stanley Burbury, and Lady
Burbury, and U.S. Consul-General
Graham Hall and Mrs. Hall were official
guests. Others present included Cr. and
Mrs. Bernard Evans; Cr. and Mrs.
Douglas Cox; Cr. and Mrs. Robert
Solly ; Cr. Oliver J. Nilsen, his son-in-
law and daughter (Mr. and Mrs. John
Inkster); Mr. and Mrs. Everard Baillieu ;
Mr. and Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine; Mr.
and Mrs. Baillieu Myer ; Mr. and Mrs.
Russel Gourlay; Mr. and Mrs. W.
Killough and Mr. and Mrs. John
Buchan.
Louise Montgomery, who was born
at Wagga (N.S.W.) and educated at St.
Leonards, Brighton {Vic.), is sharing the
role of Bessie in “The Strange Case of
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde” at the Little
Theatre with two other girls, each of
them playing for one week. For the past
18 months she has been studying
dramatic-art and speechcraft. and this is
her debut before the footlights. A petite,
blue-eyed blonde, Louise hopes to become
a speechcraft-teacher.
Passengers who flew to Melbourne
from Japan, Manila and Hong Kong
on the Cathay Pacific Air Line’s proving-
flight were guests of the Government at
a late-afternoon party in Parliament
House dining-room, which was decorated
with bowls of pink and red gladioli and
protea. Acting Premier Rylah and Mrs.
Rylah received the guests, Mrs. Rylah
wearing a full-skirted frock of black
wool and a forget-me-not-blue lace-straw
hat which was matched by her woollen
stole. With Education Minister John
Bloomfield was his wife, who chose a
tweed ensemble in sea-blue and brown
tonings, the jacket featuring a beaver-fur
collar to match her beret. Guests in-
cluded the Assistant Australian Trade
Commissioner in Hong Kong, Mr. R.
Schneenann and his wife, Colonel and
Mrs. J. D. Claque (Hong Kong), Mr.
John Galbally, M.L.C., and Mrs. Gal-
bally and Mr. and Mrs. D. Cooper
(Sydney).
•ir ☆ ☆
American Agricultural Attache James
Boulware came from Canberra to assist
U.S. Consul William F. Ryan and
Mrs. Ryan at the late-afternoon party
given at the Consul’s residence in South
Yarra. The hostess chose a sleeveless
frock of black sheer with a pleated skirt,
and white flowers were veiled with the
sheer on the bodice. The guest-of-honor,
America’s “Maid of Cotton” Malinda
Berry, was attractive in a bright-blue
cotton frock patterned in a black-and-
white design. Among guests at the party
were Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Wilks (she
wearing a smart black suit with a tiny
black sequin-cap); Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Matthews ; Mr. and Mrs. Terry
Fogarty (her slim frock of wool was
printed in a flower-design in jewel-colors);
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Korman (the
latter’s beige wool frock worn with a
short jacket which featured a deep
shawl-collar); Mr. and Mrs. Baillieu
Myer; Mr. and Mrs. Stewart Knott;
Jean Carter and Marea Marsden.
# # #
Ciro’s was booked-out for the July
Rendezvous dinner-dance, an annual
event organised by the Younger Mem-
bers’ Group of the English Speaking
Union. Gay murals, emphasising various
aspects of French life, and poodles look-
ing very lifelike, greeted guests as they
arrived. Hand-printed menus in black-
and-gold on a shocking-pink background
followed the French style. Welcoming
the guests were dance-committee chair-
man Mrs. William Banks, Jean Cameron,
Betty Nutting and the Younger Mem-
bers’ president, Ronald Thompson.
Mrs. Banks wore a short, full-skiited
frock of peacock-blue silk-taffeta, and
her party included Mr. and Mrs. Walter
Gherardin, Mr. and Mrs. Brian
O’Connor, Pamela Middleton, Noel
Curphy and Larry Blyth. In Anne
Dixon’s party were Nea O’Malley,
Neville Reid and John Rosenthal. Pretty
in a pastel-pink chiffon frock was Jenny
Wark, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. W. J.
Wark and granddaughter of Sir Charles
and Lady Lowe.
☆ ☆ ☆
Rosemary, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
C. N. Keppel, of Caulfield, celebrated
her coming-of-age at a dance given by
her parents at Ripponlea, the lovely
home of Mrs. T. G. Jones. Among the
200 guests who danced in the flower-
decorated ballroom were many of Rose-
mary’s friends from Merton Hall and
the Alfred Hospital. Rosemary wore a
gown of peacock - blue delustred - satin
which had a swathed Grecian-style bodice
with a single shoulder-strap from which


fell a hem-length panel of the satin
lined with pale-blue. Mrs. Keppel’s gown
was of silver-grey satin-brocade patterned
in tiny sprays of pink roses. Among
the guests were Diana Laurens (whose
Chinese-inspired frock of powder - blue
satin, slim and made with a high neck-
band, was embroidered with sprays of
flowers in pearls and sequins), Ann
Barnet, Jennie Newman, Rosemary
Cupit, Prue Elder (her pretty frock was
of white Chantilly-lace mounted on
pastel-blue taffeta), Moya McCormack
and Sandra Shipton.
SYDNE Y
“Think pink!” instructed fashion-
slogans in city windows displaying gar-
ments from the first layer outwards all
in that color. But the gales were scream-
ing around us and the thunder crashing,
and the only colors thinkable at the
moment were ink-blue and grey-black.
* ☆ . ☆
It was easy enough to be charmed
into a roseate mood at “The Loveliest
Night of the Year” Ball, when Prince’s
was decorated with thousands of pink
camellias ; where pink - shaded lights
shone softly on tables trailed with pink-
ribbon and sprays of ivy ; and where
the willows that decorated the ballroom
were festooned with pink ribbon and
sprouted more camellias.
Organised by the Town and Country
Committee for the Australian Optometri-
cal Association, the ball will help swell
funds for the Smith Family.
A touch of pink was given to the
gown of black chiffon worn by Mrs.
Bill Macßae by a sash of taffetas looped
from the shoulders and a camellia in
the strapless bodice. T.C.C. president
Mrs. C. Ayers was in taupe-chiffon, made
in Empire-line, and Mrs. C. Eastment
looked charming in a bouffant-skirted
dress of white chiffon and guipure-lace.
Mrs. C. Bell, whose husband is joint-
chairman, chose midnight-blue satin for
her full-length draped gown. In their
party were Professor Lederer and Mrs.
Lederer and Mr. and Mrs. R. A. Spiers,
of Wagga. Other out-of-town dancers
were Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Reid (Mait-
land), whose young daughter Margaret
looked very pretty in a dress of white
tulle over lemon taffeta, trimmed with
ruchings of ribbon-threaded tuile and a
small posy of white marguerites. She
was partnered by John Rpden, who is
studying law at Sydney University. A
shimmering sari of emerald-green and
gold made the lovely gown worn by
Mrs. Allan Beamen, one of the com-
mittee’s most ardent workers.
if if if
Their dog wore a pink bow on his
collar when popular writer Mavsie
Greig and her husband, Jan Sopoushek,
gave a gay party for more than 70
friends at their Vaucluse home after
honeymooning in Melbourne. Authors
who contributed to conversational-
sparkle were Arthur Upfield, there with
his wife; Bertha Johnstone, of Mel-
bourne (who with her husband Bill made
a special trip over for the party) and
Margaret and Frank Trist. Other guests
included Mr. and Mrs. McCall Power;
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Grylls ; Greek Vice-
Consul Goomas and Mrs. Goomas;
young American A 1 Reid (from Tokyo,
where he is with Prentice-Hall, pub-
lishers); Japanese Consul-General Ina-
gaki and Mrs. K. Inagaki; Mr. and Mrs.
Ted Jones, \of Turramurra ; Mrs. C.
Tibbats; Miss M. Bayley; Dr. and
Mrs. Lindeman ; Lady Braddon and Mr.
and Mrs. Hart.
Unusually gifted is American soprano
Mattiwilda Dobbs, whose return-visit to
Australia is hailed with joy by her
numerous admirers; as well as being
the possessor of a glorious voice, and
exceptionally elegant looks, she had a
brilliant university career, graduating
M.A. Here in Sydney for three recitals
on July 28, 30 and August I. the singer
is accompanied by her husband, Bengt
Janson, a Swedish freelance journalist
and former press-relations officer of the
Swedish Opera.
“You can almost hear the hens cluck-
ing!” was the remark overheard at the
Forum Club last week, when paintings
from Watson’s Bay Wharf were on
view. The work under discussion was
“Tarcutta Farm,” by Robert Johnson,
which appealed by its vividness and life.
Another artist whose painting of a
bush scene brought tribute from visitors
was Dora Toovey, whose “Richmond
River” had slender grey-green gums in
contrast with the red-brown of the river-
banks, and a soft mistiness of early
morning. Other artists whose work was
on display included Eric Langker, Alan
Baker and Norman Lindsay, whose
“Dalliance” showed a flirtatious lady
bestowing a mocking glance. Proceeds
from the exhibition will enable the
paintings to be shown in various country
districts of the State.
“Oh, for a French wife!” sighed
friends of Henry Corboz when the open-
ing of his Montmarte-style nightclub,
“Villa Franca,” revealed that his young
wife and her family were all creators of
food best described as “classical.” The
new restaurant (the name means
“Honest House”) also realises an ambi-
tion for his attractive and vivacious
sister-in-law, Jeanine Arnould, who pro-
duces the floor-show at the club. As
well as being a popular cabaret-singer
and dancer, Jeanine has made many
appearances on the stage, and before
arriving in Sydney three weeks ago
appeared in 15 operas in Lyons. She
also shows a nice skill as a chef, but
admits her favorite dish is hamburgers!
The gala-opening of “Villa Franca” on
July 28 will benefit charity.
if- if. if.
The midnight one-night show at the
Phillip Street Theatre, “Call Me Coward,”
staged by members of the Black and
White Committee, was such a great suc-
cess, and so much talent was revealed
in the cast, that actress Googie Withers
and her husband John McCallum sug-
gested it should be made a regular fea-
ture of the committee’s money-raising
campaign for the blind. Those taking
part in the riotous revue, which was of
1920 vintage, included Mrs. Malcolm
Coppleson, Mrs. Bill Kendall, Mrs. John
Minnott (their husbands were among the
applauders), Mrs. Evelyn Crossing, Mrs.
Eric Pratten (she scored a hit with her
costume, for which she had ransacked
Sydney’s secondhand - shops), Mrs.
Gordon Johnston, Mrs. Sylvia Quist,
Sandra Walker and Mrs. Marcel Deky-
vere. In the audience were Lady Lloyd
Jones and her son Charles; Mr. and
Mrs. Michael Jones ; Mr. and Mrs. John
Atwill ; Mrs. Strath Playfair ; Judge and
Mrs. Bruce Macfarlan and Mr. and
Mrs. Lawrence Street.
☆ ☆ ☆
A large audience braved icy winds to
attend the opening of the version of Ben
Jonson’s “Volpone” at the Independent
Theatre, and afterwards members of the
ladies’ auxiliary, of which director Miss
Doris Fitton is president, served a
delicious supper, and members of the cast
were able to get their compliments at
first-hand.
tf- if ' if
A new TV star appeared on Saturday
when Simon, a boxer-dog belonging to
Mrs. Bill White, showed his face to help
children among the viewers pick a suit-
ably nautical name for him when he acts
as mascot to the Navy team at their
Australian Rules football-match against
the Army at Trumper Park next Sunday.
Funds of the Royal N.S.W. Institution
for Deaf and Blind Children will benefit
from the match, which has been
arranged by the committee of which
Mrs. White is president. The Army’s
mascot is Sergeant Anzac, a large bull-
dog. A prize will be given to the child
who makes the best suggestion for the
boxer's name.


deep emotion, each added to the next,
establish an ultimate consistency of
outlook. It is a portrait of the author;
a statement of her point of view; a
spiritual struggle taking place in a
setting of the natural world.
The poems that come out best as
individual pieces are “The Hatters,”
which, if it is an essay on hatters rather
than a clear development from a single
poetic apprehension, sticks firmly and
interestingly to the subject; and “The
Hawk,” in which the symbol of the
bird does not become more than the
occasion logically requires, but de-
velops powerfully and consistently as a
symbol of bushfire and the cruelty of
Nature.
D.S.
Adventurers
It is perhaps the first duty of a
traveller not only to get off the beaten
track but to take a thorough beating;
and both Leonard Clark in Yucatan
Adventure (Hutchinson) and Herbert
Rittlinger in Ethiopian Adventure
(Odhams) make themselves so
supremely uncomfortable that they
should be read with unusual enjoy-
ment.
Colonel Clark, who was previously
known to fame for having accepted the
surrender of the Japanese on Formosa,
got himself into what is said to be the
least-explored part of North America,
the Quintana Roo peninsula in the
Mexican province of Yucatan. Partly
jungle and partly desert and chiefly a
waste of scrub, it seems to be one of
the most unpleasant places on earth;
and here, in search of prehistoric Maya
ruins, Clark was (of course) deserted
by his native guides and also (with a
touch of novelty) by his mules; bitten
by millions of insects, particularly
ticks; pursued by panthers and startled
by crocodiles which bobbed-up unex-
pectedly in waterholes in the arid scrub.
He was always short of food, except
when he could shoot a vulture or some
equally repulsive delicacy; and most
of the time he was on the point of
perishing from thirst. He was also
beset by vampire-bats and bandits.
His book will please, as well as
connoisseurs of discomfort, those col-
lectors of ruins who may have been
misled by Brian Fawcett’s “Ruins in
the Sky” into thinking that there were
no more relics of the prehistoric
civilisations to be discovered in
America; for whatever may be the
case in Brazil, where Fawcett found
that his father’s “lost cities” were
merely sandstone cliffs, Clark tumbled
across a new set of mins every five-
minutes or so in Yucatan.
Some of these, indeed, such as the
buried “pyramids” which Clark’s com-
panion thought were only natural hills
covered with humus, seepi doubtful;
but there were so many pyramids,
temples, forts and cities everywhere in
the wilderness that one can hardly
doubt that some of them were the real
thing. The ancient Mayas, Clark
believes, got the water for these cities
from huge underground lakes and
rivers, into one of which, far down in
its limestone cavern, he dropped
pebbles to prove that it was there.
The stony canyon of the Blue Nile
between Lake Tana and the Sudanese
frontier, where Rittlinger with his wife
and four friends went canoeing, was
not quite so uncomfortable a spot as
Yucatan, because at least there was
always water; but it was abominably
hot; and, a German nudist by profes-
sion, Rittlinger (with his companions)
considerably added to his discomforts
by travelling naked—there is a fetching
photograph of his wife on the shores
of the Red Sea in this interesting attire.
Perhaps when swimming in the Red
Sea (though it must have been cold
the time they were surrounded by
sharks and had to perch on a rock
till long after dark) nudism was not a
disadvantage, and it may even have
made the Blue Nile cooler; but it must
have been a serious temptation to the
insects, the snakes and the charging
hippopotami, while the spectacle of
Mrs. Rittlinger strolling naked through
lion-country, stalked all the while by
a large baboon, is decidedly alarming.
It is not quite clear whether the entire
party were clothed or naked when they
were attacked by crocodiles; but there
is no doubt that in either condition
the crocs, thought them a most desir-
able morsel; and, indeed, “twenty feet
long and incredibly broad and mas-
sive,” these creatures bit the bottoms
of the canoes so frequently and so
voraciously they compelled the travel-
lers, when only half their projected
voyage was completed, to abandon it.
Which was a pity; for though
“Ethiopian Adventure” is rather a
fluffy book compared with Colonel
Clark’s, it has a fantastic charm of its
own, and as far as this reviewer is
concerned it could go on idly rippling
and splashing, like the Nile, for several
miles further.
Assorted Saints
Saints come all kinds; some are bom
saints, like St. Jean-Marie-Baptiste
Vianney, in Miser of Souls, by
Margaret Trouncer (Hutchinson); some
achieve sainthood, like the Bronte
girls in Anne Bronte, by Winifred
Gerin (Nelson); and some have saint-
hood forced upon them: so what do
you say to the Kings of England, in
Intimate Letters of England’s Kings,
by Margaret Sanders (Museum)?
What that distracted soul, Vianney,
living on crusts and potatoes and three
hours’ sleep a night, his back seared
with flagellations, might have thought
of the stupid and profligate Georges
is too terrible to imagine; and yet
Royalty is a calling and a cross: —
Neither fear nor courage saves us;
m unnatural vices
Are fathered by our heroism;
virtues _ A
Are forced upon us by our impudent -
crimes.
Maybe to the true religious there is
nothing saintly in being no better than
you have to be; yet Charles I is a saint
to many who don’t like his politics . . .
or take so unlikely an object as James
11, writing to his daughter Mary, wife
of the William of Orange who is con-
spiring to take his crown: —
I easily believe you may be
embarrassed how to write to me, now
that the unjust design of the Prince
of Orange invading me is so public.
And though I know you are a good
wife, and ought to be so, yet for
the same reason I must believe you
will be still as good a daughter.
Or take the honest Sailor-King
William IV, forced to break-up his
twenty years of domesticity with Mrs.
Jordan and seek marriage with a
princess because: —
I have ten children [Mrs. Jordan’s]
totally and entirely dependent on
myself: I owe forty thousand
pounds of funded debt.
Or the same man refused by Princess
Victoria’s mother any meeting
(although he was King of England)
with his “dearest little Friend and
Niece.” Or take Henry VII, worried
what to do about Perkin Warbeck; or
James I berating the Earl of Somer-
set for withdrawn affection in terms
no King should ever have committed
to paper; or take the Georges, whom
no enormities could shock but their
children’s: then all these lives were
racked by obligations greater than
those of ordinary men; while even of
Henry VIII you could say he had
“virtues” that were “forced upon him
by his impudent crimes.”
Yet VIII is the test-case. If
most of the later English kings sug-
gest souls strained by duties it is
because most of them seemed inade-
quate to kingship or were restricted in
their power. Henry VIII was least a
saint because he was most a king; he
was absolute and he was ruthless
because ruling was all he cared about;
he was great as a king for the same
reason Vianney was great as a church-
man, because saintliness was all
Vianney cared about.
Vianney’s main business was to
reorganise the little parish of Ars after


the atheism of the French Revolution,
when, as a child, he had seen priests
hunted like animals; and in reorganis-
ing his tiny church, and gathering
together his scattered flock, he was as
ruthless as ever Henry VIII was. No
girl got absolution who attended the
wild dances that had developed after
the Revolution; when the young
woman who was his most cherished
helper told him there were no beds
left in the orphanage he had estab-
lished to take in the orphans and
abandoned children attracted to it from
far and near, he said to her, “There’s
yours”; and in later life the almost
savage ecstasies engendered by priva-
tions and penances in his presbytery,
shaken by demons that today we would
call poltergeists, gave him a gift of
second-sight, and he was able to look
at rich visitors from Paris he had
never met and tell them their past and
their future and, in no uncertain terms,
what they ought to do about it.
For a short part of the lifetime
during which Vianney scourged himself
and saw visions in Ars a very different
set of circumstances was developing
the ecstasies of literary genius across
the Channel in Haworth Parsonage.
Tuberculosis, poverty and the early
death of their mother made literary
saints of the Bronte sisters; and
although Anne, the youngest, was the
realist of the three in her novels drawn
from her experiences as a governess
in squires’ families, she was peculiarly
a saint in a religious sense in her
poetry, cast in the hymnal-cliches of
the period, but infusing even into these
an unmistakable and personal intensity.
The chain of horrors that make-up
the Bronte legend has to be rehearsed
again for a full life of each sister, and
Miss Gerin is extremely thorough
about Anne: the death from cholera of
Willy Weightman, the young curate
she loved; the drunken death of her
brother Branwell, crawling home from
the pub, mad for the love of a squire’s
wife; the dowdy .sisters’ journey, at
°ne point drenched with rain, to sur-
prise their London publisher; Anne’s
angering death at Scarborough, aged
People still crowd round the Bronte
story in their thousands, as they
crowded in thousands to the village of
Ars to see a priest—a farmer’s son,
who had never been able thoroughly
o master Latin—and as they crowd
W thousands around the history of
•English monarchs, debating what they
id against what they might have done.
natole France’s phrase that epito-
mises the history of the world, “They
>» mom, they suffered and they
th’ u Un * tes the subjects of these
ree books a little too loosely. These
individuals were remembered—and
that, if it does not always make a saint,
is certainly to be blessed.
Reviewed Briefly
The Ships of Youth: Barbara
Goolden (Heinemann). English family-
life and the changes wrought by
modem conditions are the theme of
another of Barbara Goolden’s
smoothly-written novels. Margaret, the
traditionalist with ideals of stoicism
and self-denial, is drawn with
sympathy but searching perception, so
that her possessiveness and lack of
humor prove the focal point of the
rather tenuous plot.
• * * *
Mandingo: Kyle Onstott (Long-
mans). The stark horror of this story
about slavery depends for its power
not only upon its record of savagery
and cruelty but mainly upon the
atmosphere it builds up of human
degradation. Set in Alabama during
the 1820’s, it centres upon a planta-
tion-owner and his son who have
turned from growing cotton in the
exhausted soil and are now breeding
negroes for sale. They are men of
high principle, according to their
lights, and are kind to their slaves, as
one is kind to beasts one is breeding
for sale. Tragedy can be sensed right
from the beginning of the book and
rises to a blood-chilling climax at its
close.
* * * *
Love with Paprika: Maria Molnar
(Cassell). This tale from Hungary
describes Maria Molnar’s life on a
feudal estate near Budapest during her
early womanhood in the 1930’5. It
ends with her meeting and falling in
love with her violinist-husband.
Grandmother, mistress of the 28-
roomed manor house, with her con-
fidant and collaborator, Arpad the
coachman, arrange the matings of
family, villagers and bloodstock with
equal zeal and wisdom, recognising
the basic truth “It’s easier to match
bodies than hearts.” Written simply,
but with the spice as characteristic of
the Magyars’ life and music as it is
of their cookery, these recollections
centre on the loves of the author’s
relations and friends, of her grand-
mother’s servants and the peasants
who worked and sang in the fields.
The result is enchanting.
* * * *
The Saffron Woman: Mary Patchett
(Heinemann). There does not seem to
be much point in giving the name of
“Captain Thunderbolt” to the bush-
ranger in this story, as even the author
does not pretend that there is any
resemblance between the two. It is
a highly-colored adventure set in Aus-
tralia in the 1860’s with a wild, wild
woman and a good, pure woman set
against one another as influences in
the life of the bushranger, who is an
outlaw “through no fault of his own.”
* * * *
The Sooth Wild: Ruth Chatterton
(Australasian). This story of life in
the “deep South” according to the old
tradition, out of gear with the modern
world, is in a familiar pattern of
lynching and mob-violence but
lightened by two romances and the
salty humor of a colored grandmother.
The descriptive interest is strong, and
a note of optimism brightens the
concluding pages.
* * * *
The Sonnets of Michelangelo:
Translated by J. A. Symonds (Vision).
Thick stiff paper, one sonnet to a page,
Italian text on one side, Symonds’s
translation on the other. Michelan-
gelo’s bare efforts, as one critic said,
to “decorate himself,” have come into
fashion with Benjamin Britten’s set-
tings of some of them. In this com-
plete version he is seen (number 5)
with wry humor complaining about
being cramped while painting the
Sistine Chapel, “which drives the belly
close beneath the chin”:—
in front my skin grows loose and
long; behind,
by bending it becomes more taut
and strait;
crosswise I strain me like a Syrian
bow , . .
But for the most part he is talking
as you would expect the painter of
his Adam to talk, sometimes of love,
to, it is thought Vittoria Colonna;
other times to friends; and often to
God. The translations suggest
Michelangelo’s simplicity and strength.
Even the reader ignorant of Italian can
see that Symonds doesn’t always get
the effect of the opposite page—but a
perfect translation of so complex a
thing as a sonnet is just unimaginable.
GUM LEAVES
Not arrows striking home,
thudding into oval
leaf-shields presented blankly
rank on rank, an impenetrable
phalanx of green leaves overlapping, all
shining, guarding black shadow—
but the hard dry clatter of sun-
spears each taken on the edge
of narrow shields and turned
neatly, deftly, warded off, deflected
into the forest
with undiminished momentum.
n.z.
W. HART-SMITH.


SmfMiiJ tyt
Cs*
yf
osafi^W
3SB»®
p\H«
an^
MJ
m m
W
is** 5
v...
C®
CA
r/^w
v A> 'i
BP!
VT
«j\@
*r
r
»JS@
\N
✓V4
'///?
v ~ a*
>4
y
■
t^ V \
n m
-
f^lviHMC
/ : *** u. J '-' : ' : ’’•
1" *-T
$
'V ?:
w^’v >-~. V
.
1
lj
CAK^RfS
swi
For the first time in Australia you can enjoy all the advantages of
It’s front page news! Take a look at this latest and greatest car
tyre from the world’s most experienced tyre maker.
The Goodyear Imperial 3-T Nylon tyre gives greater safety,
mileage, comfort and retreadability than any tyre before. It
is stronger because it is built with 3-T Nylon, toughest, most
durable tyre cord yet produced.
Only Goodyear has the 3-T Process, therefore only Goodyear
can offer 3-T Nylon cord!
This means that only Goodyear Imperial 3-T Nylon tyres
have the superior strength that gives greater protection
withstands greater punishment. You can recap or retread this
tyre more times because 3-T Nylon retains its outstanding
strength far longer than other tyre cord.
This brand new tread design adjusts itself instantly to meet
changing road conditions and driving needs. It responds
instantly to brake or accelerator.
D/'NLyNEIVJ
mm
4
MORE PEOPLE THE-
WORLD OVER RIDE
ON GOODYEAR
TORES THAN ON
ANy OTHER MAKE
GOODYEAR
e
