

The Bulletin
The Outlook For Wool—P a 9 e 40
Wednesday, March 25, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"In think someone wants to pass us."


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
ETHEL ANDERSON AGAIN
Ethel Anderson was brokenhearted
when her Parramatta stories came out
without her dedication to “The
Bulletin”; but, rather partial to her
own way in life, she seems to be even
more sure of it in death: The Little
Ghosts (Angus and Robertson), her
posthumous book of short-stories, is
dedicated, as she said her next book
would be, to “the Writer’s Friend” —
there is something about the aristocrat
of the spirit that can inspire awe in
the most larrikin of journalists.
This book is prefaced by the superb
essay on the texture of Indian life and
sceneiy, “Nishat and Shalimar,” from
“Timeless Garden,” and some of the
stories are from her book “Indian
Tales,” whose publication prompted
Douglas Stewart to write to her and
suggest her sending stories to “The
Bulletin”; but most of them are selec-
tions from the long line of stories that
followed that letter, the equivalent of
two books about India and one about
Australia.
In this collection one can see a
development; the pre-“Bulletin” stories
begin with historical anecdote —a
romance made from the news that
Akbar played chess with beautiful
women-slaves as chessmen; a conver-
sation-piece run up around the
American Governor Yale’s splendid
life in India, he whose name was given
to Yale University; a romantic tragedy
affixed to the sufferings of Mrs. James
Greene, who lost her husband in the
Indian mutiny and threw in her lot
with her Mahommedan savior.
Then history gives way to the more
social and personal treatment of the
“Bulletin” series, in which, however
factually based, the general humanity
of the story is most important: the
cameleer’s wife who has herself sold
to the prince nevertheless has mercy
on her neglectful husband when he is
brought down by leprosy; the harem
of the Scottish rajah, Sir David
Ochterlony, rebel against the murder
of their girl-babies, unknown to him,
at birth; the harem of the Prime
Minister help him, in the most extra-
ordinary way, to loot the Treasury.
In these, seen from faraway, like fairy-
tales, in the pure colors of Indian
painting itself, are her most rounded
and serene stories.
Brilliantly done, the stories where
modem Europeans are put into the
Indian scene—Wyatt to steal the
rajah’s Spanish wife; the crown prince
to force his way into an Indian palace
and provoke the princess—are a little
less successful; and the English girl
who seemingly betrays the young
brother of her English fiance in “Love
Affair” is least convincing of all,
although this story has some of Mrs.
Anderson’s most breathtaking scenery,
and one of the best satirical runs of
Englishwomen ripping up another
woman’s reputation in all her work —
her ear for scandalous intonation was
never more true than here.
But the other pure-English story,
“Three Wakeful Nights,” is another
matter; a sombre ghost-story of a man
who murdered his mistress in India, a
psychological murderer. Told against
a British Army background, which
Gaused comment by an artilleryman
that the scenes of artillery on the march
must have been first-hand observation
—as they, of course, were —it has a
power and ingenuity Maugham could
hardly have bettered. The song “Pale
hands I loved beside the Shalimar”
is mentioned in it, and one remembers
Mrs. Anderson saying bodefully that
there was more than ordinary reason
for this.
Good as these Indian stories are,
they do not achieve the depth and
power of the later Parramatta stories,
drawn from family papers and
memories of an Australian childhood.
There Ethel Anderson’s sense of the
significance of scenery, her gift for
creating forceful and farcical men and
exquisitely beautiful women, her pro-
found understanding of the forces of
good and evil that underlie the beauty
and wit of the world, achieved its best
expression. Nevertheless, as time goes
on “The Bulletin” will probably be
more indebted to her dedication of
these Indian stories than Mrs. Ander-
son was to “The Bulletin.”
R. McC.
Queensland Poems
The poems in David Rowbotham’s
Inland (Angus and Robertson) are of
two kinds, quite distinct from each
other. The first kind, which gives the
book its general tone and flavor, is a
pastoral verse of Queensland, warm,
full of feeling for the land and its his-
tory, technically very uneven. The
second kind is of more personal lyrics
of love and death and wonder, on the
surface looser in form than the others
but in fact technically delightful,
written in a natural speech-rhythm
v/hich imposes its own discipline.
It is noticeable that the poems of this
second kind are all very short; mostly
unrhymed or, like “Dark River,”
bound by only the slightest touches of
rhyme; and all are as urgent in rhythm
as they are deep in feeling. They are
not Rowbotham’s characteristic poems;
they might not even be the ones that
you would choose for an anthology,
the others having a broader Australian
quality; but, written without apparent
striving and without lapses, they are
what he can do best. And they are
very good indeed:—
I believe trees hold unattainable
perfection
In their arms and give to man
Only the silhouette of it. I meet
The solemnity of trees in your fine
silence
And all my love and yours cannot
by meeting
Draw the dark intrinsic beauty
out . . .
The other kind, the pastoral poems,
are marred by stumblings of rhythm—
usually in a change from an- iambic to
a lame sort of trochaic measure at the
beginning of a line throwing a meaning-
less emphasis on to the first word: —
Five kookaburras sitting on the wire
Filch a moment from the world with
their harsh choir —
and by infelicities of off-rhyme.
Perhaps, since “Bulletin” readers
have recently raised the point and it is
discussed with some heat in Frederick
T. Macartney’s latest “Bulldozer
Booklet”— Carols of Can’t and Won’t
—I might briefly set down what I think
are the principles of this kind of
experiment in rhyme.
Obviously, off-rhymes should never
be used in mere laziness and ineffici-
ency. Nor should they be used to make
new cacophonies of sound. Nor, by
giving authority to bad colloquial pro-
nunciations, should they tend to
corrupt the language. They should be
used, ideally, only to make new
harmonies of sound; and, in the last
ditch, to allow the poet to express his
meaning more precisely, without being*
too much at the mercy of a strict
rhyme-scheme. So that he doesn’t need
to say “fountains” every time after
he says “mountains.”
The thing for the poet to remember,
having decided to use off-rhymes, is
that each rhyme-sound to some extent
affects the sound of the other in the
reader’s mind; especially, the first
rhyme-word used will affect the second.
If you are going to rhyme “ban,” say,
with “sun,” “ban” will sound a little
like “bun” and “sun” will sound a little
like “san”; and you need to be careful
about it.
So, when David Rowbotham rhymes
“hunter” with “winter” I don’t see how
anyone can object. The words go
pleasingly together; neither has to be
distorted or vulgarly mispronounced.
The poet is enabled to say exactly
what he wants to say, and he has
enlarged the possibilities of the
language. And if it vaguely makes
(Continued on page 58)


ONE BAG
OR
1,000 BALES
receive the same
Personal Service from
TRAINED WOOL
SB '
wmgm
Hi
M
M
■i
m
c.
'■mm
mi
m
immem
-
m
-•
You can be sure that your
wool will be displayed to
advantage on our well
lighted spacious show
floors in ' all the major
centres in Australia.
COMPLETE SERVICE TO THE MAN ON THE LAND
180 Branches give Nationwide Service to the Man on the Land,
covering Wool, Merchandise, Shipping, Travel, Chartering,
Skin and Hides, Land and Livestock, Rural Banking.
Insurance,
ELDER, SMITH & GO., LIMITED
Adelaide g Perth, Albany , Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London
with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LIMITED .... SYDNEY;
NENCO LIMITED NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 25, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4128
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
AFTER THE PETROVS
AFTER five years of emptiness
almost to the month, the Soviet
Embassy at Canberra is to be occupied
once more.
Up till April, 1954, the Embassy
building had been a restless labyrinth
of activity and mysterious happenings.
Most of its inmates lived a life as if
in jail, one apparently of fear and
watchfulness and supervision of their
private doings.
Outside social contacts were mainly
on a propaganda level, the only inti-
mates the spies of the Communist party
and the furtive parlor-pinks in the civil
service working as collaborators or
dupes under the mysterious Communist-
party official known as Klod, who
operated the Soviet Union’s informa-
tion-ring. He was whisked away into
hiding after the defection of Vladimir
Mikhailovich Petrov, titular third-
secretary to the Embassy and head of
the M.V.D. in Australia.
Petrov sought and was granted
political asylum in Australia on April
3, 1954. On April 20 his wife
Evdokia was “granted protection by
the Acting Administrator of the
Northern Territory and was subse-
quently granted asylum.” She was
“then at Darwin on her way to the
U.S.S.R. in the custody of two armed
Soviet couriers, together with one
Kislytsin, the second-secretary of the
Soviet Embassy, who had been detailed
to take her back to the U.S.S.R.” —
where undoubtedly she would have
paid the penalty of her husband’s
flight.
It was after that that the Russian
Government held the members of the
Australian Embassy in Moscow as
hostages for the exit from this country
not only of the members proper of the
Embassy but of some outside acces-
sories in the spy system and withdrew
its mission helter-skelter. Since then
Canberra has been free of official
Russians, and the subsequent Petrov
inquiry and the private information
obtained from Petrov which did not
come before the commission revealed
that the Embassy was lucky in its
immunity.
The Russian Government no doubt
felt even luckier to get its people out,
including the two “couriers,” who
were illegally operating as armed
escorts on Australian soil. Left behind,
some of the others might have defected
and made matters much worse than
they were.
AS the Embassy left voluntarily, so
it has now come back at its own
request, despite the deliberate state-
ments made in the Moscow press that
the negotiations at Broadbeach which
have brought about its return have
been on the initiative of the Australian
Government. Any Government which
wanted the kind of people who repre-
sent the U.S.S.R. back on any terms
would be a little mad. But at the same
time diplomacy is diplomacy, and
contact is at least contact.
The terms under which the return
has been agreed to have been stressed.
The 25-mile limit of travel which
applies in Moscow to all foreign diplo-
mats who may not go further without
special permits will apply to Soviet
Union diplomats in Canberra.
There are somewhat vague condi-
tions about the occupation of the
Antarctic, where the Russians
apparently have settled themselves on
Australian occupied territory per-
manently and parts of which they
have been exploring without Australian
foreknowledge.
There are to be discussions about
interchange of trade, a matter which
possibly is at the back of the Russian
eagerness to return to the Common-
wealth. though its move is more likely
motivated by the announcement that
the United States would begin to take
part in the Woomera and Maralinga
missile experiments. At the same time
the Soviet Union has no doubt missed
facilities for buying Australian wool,
even if it has been able to obtain some
supplies by a sidewind.
The breach between Australia and
the U.S.S.R. was not merely the result
of a normal quarrel. It was the result
of fear on the part of the Russians of
the consequences of deliberate subver-
sion of Australian citizens, usage of
the Embassy as the centre of a spy-
ring manned by Australians against a
friendly country with which diplomatic
relations were in being on terms
favorable to the Soviet Union, but
which the Soviet Union documents
brought out by Petrov insisted on
describing as “the enemy.”
The safeguards in control of the
zone in which the new Soviet official-
dom will be allowed to move is very
little safeguard at all, and if the Aus-
tralian Government is caught a second
time by a spy-ring operated from the
U.S.S.R. headquarters it will have itself
to blame.
Most of the mischief last time was
done in Canberra itself. The civil
service in Dr. Evatt’s day was infil-
trated by Communists and near-
Communists, right up to the typists’
room next-door to the Minister’s
office. The information which these
people obtained, either with deliber-
ate intent or merely in course of their
duties, was passed on to a functionary
of the Australian Communist Party.
By him it was passed to the agents of
the M.V.D. inside the safety of the
Embassy by one means and another.
When an Australian Communist
official wished to give information, as
was proved in the case of Rupert Lock-
wood, he went inside the Soviet
Embassy building to write it out and
to collect his money and his brandy —
this after a rejection by the Embassy
of his request that he should be sent
out to Communist China.
YjUITH a Communist party remark-
ably unobtrusive at present, but
with its committee-members in charge
of great key unions and of their
machinery for electing officers and of
their funds, it will be exceedingly diffi-
cult to control Soviet Union association
with them when the Embassy is once
more established in Australia. Now
contact has to be established either
through furtive travellers from abroad
or on the regular visits which the
officials of the Communist party pay
to Moscow. With an Embassy in
Canberra, swift liaison for the distribu-
tion of funds from Moscow to the
party and for interchange of informa-
tion will have been re-established.
This seems to make it all the more
vital for Australian security that Com-
munists should be driven out of control
of every industry which has a bearing
on defence and particularly out of the
headships of the fuel and transport
unions. This is a consummation
heartily to be desired in any case,
since two unions headed by Communist
central committee-men, and having a
total of only about 42,000 members,
account for more industrial disputes
and more lost working-days than the
whole of the rest of the Australian
unions put together.
Altogether it will need a close net-
work of safeguards to prevent the
re-establishment in Australia of the
organisation for espionage which
existed before.
When dealing with a Government
which refers to. this country in its
private security documents as “the
enemy” and which indulges in Moscow-
planned subversion, no precaution or
restriction of movement or contacts
can be too rigid.
The Red Bear has proved himself a
treacherous and untrustworthy animal.


ADVICE FROM AN EXPERT.
“A little more to the West now, Nasser!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Privilege" of M.P.s and
Citizens
Almost at the beginning of the New
Federal Parliament the House of Repre-
sentatives has appointed a Committee
of Privilege to inquire into charges by
a member that he has been libelled by
an outside publicist who has allegedly
accused him of acting as a paid lobbyist
for a Queensland firm of contractors.
The charges were made in a lettergram
to Mr. Holt, Leader of the Government
in the House, who describes them as
being “of a scandalous character.”
The committee consists of nine mem-
bers — five from the Government side
and four from the Labor Opposition, and
it contains nobody of judicial eminence.
This committee can decide what wit-
nesses should be called and how they
shall be examined and on what principle
the issues ot guilt or otherwise shall be
decided. Also, whether any person con-
cerned may be legally represented.
The dignity of Parliament certainly
should be safeguarded and its integrity
carefully assured and made known. But
where a tribunal is called for to try an
issue it should be one that will have
the full confidence of the electors, and
its proceedings should be conducted (as
they certainly would be conducted in
England) with due regard to legal
principles and methods.
Parliament itself does not set a very
high example in its methods and approach
to debate.
If an ordinary citizen were to accuse
another in a position of trust with pro-
fessional impropriety, the victim would
be compelled to have recourse to the
civil law —at his own expense —to pro-
tect himself. But a member of Parlia-
ment in the same position has the advan-
tage of charging the accuser on a quasi-
criminal basis with “breach of privilege”
before a number of unjudicial persons,
the majority of whom will certainly be
members of his own party if he is on
the Government side and some of whom
may or may not be his close personal
friends. Even if these people are the
fairest and most judicial - minded
characters in the world, the principle
should apply that justice should not
merely be done but appear to be done.
Certainly the precedents of the past
have not always inspired confidence in
the Committee of Privilege system —the
Blain Gold Pass inquiry held under Dr.
Evatt’s presidency a few years ago was
one instance which produced shocking
results and certainly grave injustice.
It seems that if Parliament is to con-
tinue to use its might to deal with its
critics and accusers it will have to change
its method and at the same time give
up its habit of using its cover of privi-
lege to make wanton attacks, unsup-
ported by any evidence, against persons
outside the House.
It seems that before Parliament
exercises its powers in “privilege” matters
it might consider the need to equalise
justice as between M.P. and constituent.
Mr. Menzies has stated during the
week that he is “particularly troubled
by the most unwarranted and scandalous
attacks made on prominent citizens from
the floor of the House,” these citizens
“having no opportunity to reply.”
It seems a simple matter to deal with:
constitute a court of privilege headed by
a High Court judge, give the citizen the
right to prove that the charges are
wanton and baseless and, if they are,
let Parliament safeguard its own reputa-
tion by bringing the offending member
to the Bar —of the House —and sending
him to jail in the same way that the
wanton accuser of an M.P. can be sent
there.
The Last Stronghold
John Joseph Cahill has won the N.S.W.
State election, though it seems he might
have at the finish only 48 seats, against
45 Liberal and C.P., with one Independ-
ent, Purdue, of Waratah. Labor had 49
seats in the old House, with 43 in the
Opposition and two Independents.
Mr. Cahill should be delighted with
this result. He has won three seats —-
Parramattta, Hurstville and Sutherland —-
one from his old Ministerial henchman,
Clive Evatt, and two through redistribu-
tion. He has lost Mudgee and Young,
and his Minister for Agriculture, R. L.
Nott, is having the fight of his life in
Liverpool Plains, while in Dubbo it
looks as if his man, the hitherto well-
established C. G. Robertson, will be
beaten, since he was 2800 votes down
on the combined total of the Liberal-
C.P. votes. The main thing in doubt
there is whether Liberal or C.P. will win
—it looks like C.P.
Mr. Cahill may have a majority of as
little as one over all opponents after
providing a Speaker. He may, of course,
ask Mr. Purdue to take the Speakership,
which would suit everybody, except Mr.
Lamb, the present extraordinary holder
of the office.
The Premier thinks that his skin-of-
his-teeth victory is “a splendid vindica-
tion of the Government.” Gerrymander,
the plumping-down of housing-settle-
ments in the right place, the abolition of
the postal vote because it was “abused” —
i.e., because the majority normally went
against Labor —the failure to have
facilities for absent voting in uncontested
electorates, the placing of public-works
projects in places where votes were most
needed and the stringing of them out
so as to keep a helot bunch of voters
where they were wanted: these were
some of the things the result of the elec-
tion “vindicated,” along with a host of
smaller political bribes and every kind
of twist and trickery known to the hard-
eyed bunch of followers behind him.
On policy, Mr. Cahill was just as
tricky as in electoral organisation.
Allegedly anti-Red, he allied himself with
Dr. Evatt and accepted the financial help
of the Communist-controlled unions—
even the almost entirely Communist-
managed and industrially immoral Sea-
men’s Union, in order to win. Leader
of a State party which pledged itself
after the war to introduce Socialism in
10 years—he himself was behind the
programme—he went about seeking votes
on the ground that his programme was
highly attractive to the capitalist
investors of overseas countries.
Westralia held its elections on the same
day as N.S.W., with different results. The
headquarters of Mr. Chamberlain, presi-
dent of the Federal A.L.P., saw a land-
slide against Labor. The Hawke Gov-
ernment lost five key seats in the metro-
politan area, and David Brand, who is
only 46 after 14 years in the House, will
become Premier as leader of the Liberal-
C.P. coalition with a majority of two or
three seats in a House of 50. The D.L.P.
voting there had a substantial effect,
contrasting with N.S.W., where the party
polled under 20,000 votes. It was one of
the jokes of the N.S.W. election that the
Red issue did not count with the D.L.P.
supporters, though the accord between
the Communist party and the Cahills was
as strong as that between Dr. Evatt’s
Federal party and the Communists.
The results leave N.S.W. a shabby
political island on the Australian main-
land —the one State with a Labor Gov-
ernment ; one in which dragooned
unionists and strategic placing of popu-
lation and allocation of electorates as
between country and industrial areas
offset the contrasts between the booming
advances of Victoria and South Australia
and Queensland and the muddle and
inefficiency and near-bankruptcy of the
State Government.
However, the N.S.W. voters have
always been whales for punishment.
Law Institute's Centenary
Many very distinguished lawyers from
other lands and inter-State, and a
number of prominent Australians —
nothing, not even a Test match or the
chance of a spar with Eddie Ward, would
have kept the Prime Minister away—
turned up at one or more of the
centenary celebrations organised in
Victoria for the Law Institute.
The programme was liberally planned
with the alternatives of discussions of
modern legal problems—especially, of
course, the drunken driver, a world worry
—but the alternatives of country trips to
see developments in the State, which also
roped in the country law associations,
were offered; and the hospitality was
warm.
Nothing sustains the interest of the
legal profession so keenly as refreshers ;
nobody could be more aware of this than
a Law Institute. This apparently was
the reason for the framing of a pro-
gramme studded with suppers, receptions,


buffet-dinners, dinners, luncheons and
banquets.
The wise men who chewed their way
warily through all this and survived
included Leslie Peppiatt, M.C., president
of the Law Society in England ; Ross
Malone, president of the American Bar
Association ; W. S. Owen, Q.C., presi-
dent of the Canadian Bar Association ;
A. B. Buxton, president of the N.Z. Law
Society; Sir Cyril de Zoysa, president
of the Law Society of Ceylon ; G. H.
Goh, M.8.E., representing Malaya;
K. T. Ooi, chairman of the Singapore
Bar Association; O. J. Negus, Q.C.,
president of the Law Council of Aus-
tralia ; and representatives of the States.
One at least of the most distinguished
among all these legal lights was a Vic-
torian, Mr. Justice Lowe, now only a
year or two from becoming an octo-
genarian. Sir Charles Lowe’s service to
his profession and to the University has
made him a legend in his lifetime. More
than a decade ago R. G. Menzies, then
Leader of the Opposition, declared (after
a 17th-century wit) that no man could
be as wise as Mr. Justice Lowe looked ;
age has not withered his sagacity, or the
appearance of it, either.
Victoria’s Law Institute was founded
only 24 years after the first settlement
in Melbourne; this was 18 years after
the Supreme Court had been established.
It is one of the oldest in the British Com-
monwealth and very much the senior
legal society in Australia. The centenary
actually falls this week, and last week’s
dignified high jinks were framed as a
prelude to it.
Nasser on the Tightrope
That dexterous political conjurer,
Nasser, must feel many regrets as he
surveys the posture into which he has
twisted himself over the past four years.
The events of the Suez incident were
all cunningly conceived in the know-
ledge that the U.S. oil interests, backed
by Mr. Dulles, would fall, as usual, for
anything that would weaken United
Kingdom power and influence in a zone
which the oil industry of the U.S. desired
to establish as its own.
Neither Nasser nor his supporters
north of the Canal had the slightest
conception of what was likely to result.
From Khrushchev he got arms and
equipment for which he has no use and
which looked silly when the U.S. Sixth
Fleet came over the horizon. He found
the proffered Communist economic help
ended mostly with promises and that
the only real part of it had associated
bargains which he could not fulfil with-
out becoming a satellite.
He found that his campaign of dis-
turbance in North Africa, in the French
territories and in the Sudan in particular,
were failures. He also found that he
would not have a free hand to swallow
Jordan or Lebanon. He found that his
Syrian province was well infiltrated with
Communism and no doubt came, through
his experience, to the knowledge that
the easily achieved union was just
another plot to fie a Red drum to his
tail. Syria is being used by the Com-
munists as a Trojan-horse in which the
elements to destroy Jordan and ultimately
Egypt are being assembled. They aim
to succeed not by force but by internal
burrowing.
The most resounding success of the
Nasser programme seemed to be the
overthrow of his rival Nuri in Iraq,
accompanied by a massacre worthy of an
ancient Syrian king. But it was
noticeable that when “traitors” were
brought to “trial” it was on the ground of
their alleged plotting against Syria, not
Nasser.
Now Nasser has woken-up to the fact
that, having used him as machinery to
establish the Communist claim to be the
arch-champion of Pan-Arabism, he has
been dropped like a hot potato. Iraq
has gone over to the Communists and
General Kassem, until recently a white-
haired boy of Pan-Arabism, has shown
himself in his true colors.
In Cairo Nasser has roused organised
student demonstrations against the Com-
munists and Communism.
He is now isolated, abusing both the
West and Moscow, but no doubt hoping
that if he gets into trouble with either
East or West strategy will dictate that
one bloc or the other will come to his
rescue.
He is, in fact, walking a swaying
tightrope. And his great disadvantage
is that he has taught the Arabs to believe
—in spite of his noisy neutralist pose—
that Moscow is their friend and that the
West is their mortal enemy.
Coming-of-age
[From Canberra]
The Commonwealth Government has
apparently conceded, at last, that resi-
dents of the Northern Territory and the
A.C.T. are as intelligent as those else-
where in the Commonwealth.
Plans were announced last week to
give the residents of the Northern Terri-
tory greater powers of self-government,
while the Government has also agreed
to extend the almost non-existent voting
rights in the House of Representatives of
the members for those territories.
Canberra has not yet reached the stage
of any form of self-government, but
the feeling is now growing that with
an extension of the powers of the
Northern Territory Legislative Council,
self-government cannot be held back
from the A.C.T. much longer.
Canberra’s only local authority is the
A.C.T. Advisory Council, which has no
autonomy and which can only place
recommendations before the Minister for
the Interior.
The Northern Territory, which has had
a Legislative Council since 1947, has a
population of only 20,000 white citizens,
while Canberra’s population is now grow-
ing towards the 50,000-mark.
In addition to this argument for self-
determination, the Prime Minister, Mr.
Menzies, is keen to see Canberra develop
as a truly national capital, an impossible
accomplishment without some form of
self-government.
A Bomb from Holmes
[From “John Henry’’]
Before taking-off by plane last Saturday
to attend a conference of geographers
at Pittsburgh (U.S.A.), Professor James
Macdonald Holmes dropped a kind of
bomb in Sydney when he said that, in
his opinion, Keyline had “superseded”
orthodox soil-conservation methods.
A public well briefed on such
phenomena as Sabrina’s bosom and Elvis
Presley’s amours is unlikely to hear the
bomb’s subterranean rumblings. But
Bulletin readers who followed the
lively discussion between P. A. Yeomans
and E. O. Schlunke on the “Man on
the Land” pages a few years ago will
be in a better position to judge, because
points raised then are still being debated.
Schlunke, best known to Bulletin
readers as a short-story writer and
novelist, is also a Riverina grazier with
almost a lifelong interest in soil-
conservation He put the case for ortho-
dox soil-conservation methods, vis-a-vis
Keyline, as ably as it has yet been pre-
sented. Yeomans, a mining-engineer-
turned-landowner, with business interests
including the manufacture of farm-
machinery (he introduced the first chisel-
plough to Australia), no less ably put
the case for Keyline, a technique of
land-development which he described
more fully in his then recently-published
book, The Key line Plan.
In the meantime, events have rolled
on. Yeomans has bought more land at
Campbelltown, Orange and Bathurst
(N.S.W.) and Keylined it, and has written
another book. Reports from landowners
who have tried Keyline have come in,
and the original Keyline properties at
North 'Richmond (N.S.W.) have been
visited by hosts of scientists, students and
farmers.
Holmes, who has been lecturing at
Sydney University since 1929, was Aus-
tralia’s first full professor of geography.
He has trained many of the people
who now hold key positions, in the
geography departments of other Austra-
lian universities, as technical officers
advising on land-usage, in banks, in-
surance-offices and Government depart-
ments. Successive State and Common-
wealth Governments have sought his
advice on a variety of land matters, he
had a hand in the Murray Valley
regional planning, his book on soil-
conservation is considered the authorita-
tive work of its kind in this country,
and he helped to draft the first Soil
Conservation Act in Australia. So his
opinion that orthodox soil-conservation
methods have been “superseded” is bound
to carry weight.
Not that Professor Holmes envisages
the Soil Conservation Service shutting-
up shop overnight, or any violent and
widespread conversion. “But,” he said
before leaving for San Francisco,
“give Keyline the time orthodox soil-
conservation methods have had in Aus-
tralia, then it will supersede them
materially, in fact, as it already has in
the minds of some people.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T ady bowlers are, as a rule, not
in the first bloom of youth, but it's
sort of a tradition that, on the greens
at any rate, they are referred to as “The
Girls.” They have, on occasion, been
referred to as cats, old hens and sergeant-
majors—too often the boys and the girls
are at loggerheads; some clubs have been
rent asunder . . . But to get back to name-
calling: a few of the girls were sitting
in the ladies’ lounge at one licensed club,
quietly and inoffensively chewing their
beer, when the steward put his head
through the serving-hatch and inquired in
the most genial and matey way possible,
“How are all my old boilers getting on?
Ready for another round?” If, with
“round,” he was thinking in boxing terms,
he certainly came near to buying into a
first-class bout. Some of the old boilers
are still simmering, but not getting any
more tender in their regard for that
steward.—“ Kitty Kat.”
♦> +>
“L.R.M.”: A Perth girls’ school col-
lects its pupils by taxi. At a bob-a-nob
it works-out cheaper than bus-fares. And
it avoids the hazards of traffic ; Perth
taxis are much safer inside ’em than
out.
❖ *
“Lillydale”: In the gilded haven of
U.S. advertising the new gimmick is not
the million-dollar-give-away, nor the sub-
liminal suggestion, but the insinuation
that the lips that are sticked may touch
liquor. Two American distilleries, break-
ing a 50-year-old precedent, will show
women in their hard-liquor advertise-
ments. The thin wedge-end was driven
last, year by an intrepid brewery-
advertisement depicting a housewife
succoring a gardening husband with a
tray-borne bottle of beer and one glass.
Not evoking too many brickbats nor the
magazine too many cancellations, wifey
was to be seen a month later actually
sharing a bottle with hubby as he spelled
•from painting the clapboards. Presum-
ably an overall balance is to be attained :
The powder-and-perfume hucksters are
profitably exhorting the males to smell
like pansies, so now let the dames acquire
a robust aura of bourbon and bacardi!
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Pat”: Over the adjoining coffee-table,
they were in earnest discussion of
husbands: “Oh, but it’s all right for you
—I mean, after all he's a lecturer and a
bit of a brain, and all that. Nobody
really expects him to dress properly or
talk sensibly. The absentminded pro-
fessor type can always get away with it.”
“Absentminded!” shrilled her com-
panion. “My dear, nobody expects a
man to be so absentminded that when
he’s offered a cigarette, he says ‘Got
my pipe, thanks,’ and stands there suck-
ing at the stem while the bowl is still
smoking—absolutely puffing clouds, my
dear —through his pockets. Well, I mean
“Come on, you two! You're missing all the fun!
We're playing postman s-knock."
if there’s one thing an absentminded,
bookish type is supposed to do properly,
it’s smoke a pipe, isn’t it?”
❖ *X*
“Kenyas”: If there’s one thing our
school isn’t short of it’s pigeons. They’re
the bane of our groundsman’s existence
because they eat-up his grass- and flower-
seed. He passed me, wheeling a barrow-
load of sandwiches, most of them still
in the greaseproof-paper they’d been
wrapped-in by loving hands. “This is
what brings the pigeons,” he grumbled.
“Perfectly good food, Oslo lunches and
all, chucked away because their silly
parents give the kids too much dough to
waste on muck in the tuckshop.” He
mopped his brow and started to trundle
off: “All the same, it’s got its bright side.
Me and the missus have wonderful
toasted sandwiches for breakfast.”
♦♦♦ *** <£♦
“Barra”: Next to me at the theatre
was a proud father treating his six-year-
old to her first live show. All eyes, she
espied a uniformed programme-seller
with a pony-tail hair-do bobbing up and
down, and excitedly tapped her father’s
knee: “Look, Daddy, there’s a yahoo!”
“J.S.”: A country pub calling itself
“the millionaires’ playground” uses
radio extensively to advertise its wares
and tariffs. A while back, you could get
a room and enjoy all amenities for just
£9 18s. a week. A break came, and up
went the tariff to £lO 55., which was just
a room-warmer to a rise of another
five- bob. i his was followed by a further
half-flag, and when last heard the disk-
jock. was quoting llgns.
❖ ❖ *
“Fischer”: Laevoleucyltriglycyllaevol-
eucyltriglycliaevoleucyloctaglycylglycine.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Sack”: As I walked up the street a
chap came out of a house with the inert
body of a small
child in his arms. He
laid it carefully in
the car at the kerb
and fairly ran back
into the house.
Within seconds he
was back with
another motionless
child, and gone
again. When he
came hurrying out
with a third still
figure I was really
alarmed . . . some
terrible accident a
gassing or such . . .
The man turned
from the car as I
came abreast.
“Something wrong?”
he repeated, looking
puzzled. Then
realisation came.
“Little blighters will
come to TV,” he
grinned ; “then they
go to sleep in the
first half-hour. They’ll be more com-
fortable there than sprawled on the
floor.” He hurried inside with the speed
of a man timing his chores to the com-
mercial breaks.
<s* ♦> *!♦
“0.W.W.”: In a cafe in Palmerston
North (N.Z.) fish-and-chips costs 4s. a
plate; fish without batter is listed at
ss. 6d. a plate. Fish may not know any-
thing about art, but they know there’s
more money in nudes.
♦s*
“Arjay”: Whisper in a hardware store :
“Fer Gawsake, don’t buy anything here.
Their prices are that loaded they’ll blow
yer head orf!”
“Ceg”: Ultra-modern banks in Gee-
long (B. 28/l/’59)? I know of one with
a fish-pond in its foyer. I’ve been waiting
for the management to invite customers
to bring their rods and lines for a spot
of sport. A can of blue bait, carrying
a suitable advertisement, might be placed
nearby. It could well be a means of
hooking youngsters.


In a cage hanging' from a tree
at trainer Jack Green’s racing-
stables at Randwick dwells a white
cockatoo which says “Hullo!” to all-and-
sundry. This greeting is so plainly spon-
taneous that one can’t resist responding ;
whereupon the bird inquires: “How are
you?” On my visit to the stables, my
companion, who’d been shaky for days,
replied: “No bloody good!” To this,
Cocky shouted: “Oh!” My friend,
unused to finding in a racing-stable some-
body ready to talk, and well aware that
the trainer had three star-representatives
in an important race coming up in a day
or so, just couldn’t help asking: “What’ll
win the Newmarket?” The bird, cocking
its head on one side to get a better look,
came back with: “You’re the one!” or
something like that. My friend became
excited. “The topweight, eh! ” he
exclaimed. I failed to make the con-
nection at first, but gradually realised
that he had interpreted (as only an
inveterate punter would) “One” for No. 1.
Anyway, when we parted two hours later,
he extracted a pound from me to add
to his own to back Gold Stakes —which
duly won the event easily at surprisingly
good odds. —“P.O.M-C.”
* * ❖
“Will C.”: The falling into a Sydney
street of a large glass window, with some
injury to a pedestrian, reminds me that
32 years ago a cleaner had placed a
stone jar of ink (no, not Wimble’s, sir!)
on a second-story window-ledge, and
while dusting a table touched the jar and
sent it falling. Looking out, he saw a
man standing by the broken pieces and
surveying his trousers, thoroughly
splashed with blue-black ink. The cleaner
went down and apologised very humbly ;
the victim was satisfied with a cleaning-
fee, and casually mentioned that the jar
had touched his hat as it fell; so it could
have been his lucky day!
♦> ♦> »>
“J.S.”: Way back in the misty distance
when The Bulletin put its shirt on
Dalgety as the future Federal Capital
and my political party, led by John
Boyd Steer, batted in favor of Alice
Springs, the “B.” stressed that the average
rainfall of the present A.C.T. was 17in.
and that the maximum population the
water-supply could support was round
"No, thanks — I'm driving !”
about 50,000. “Naz” (B. 11/3/’59) stirs
memories by referring to the privilege
certain residents enjoy of using as much
water as desired without paying excess
charges—but when will saturation-point
of population in the territory be reached?
More apposite, when can we boot the
bureaucrats and all their pomps and
pumps to “The Alice”?
♦Jt-
“Quartercut”: The well-mannered
schoolboy having gratefully received
from Jack Davey a fishing-rod, was told
he was also to have a bottle of hair-fix
to send to Mother. The studio audience,
with sympathy for the budgeting com-
plexities of a far-from-home boarder,
loosed no guffaw when the youth very
quickly yet politely asked, “And will you
pay the postage, sir?” Mum and Dad
live in Sarawak, and Jack said he
certainly would.
■❖ ❖ ❖
“Archaen”: The Greeks had a word
for young women like Sabrina and Jayne
Mansfield. Homer describes the type,
with obvious admiration, as buthykolpos,
literally “deep-bosomed”; and this attrac-
tion is stressed in the frescoes and vase-
paintings which have survived. They
also show the accompanying charm of
the 22in. waist, so this modern ideal
is over 3000 years old.
♦s* ♦♦♦
“Ballet Athlete”: Booklets are being
prepared by the Amateur Athletic
Association (London) describing the
ballet exercises appropriate to different
sports, including football; they think
that a form of training which produced
Nijinsky and which annually turns out
from ballet-schools young men with
more than ordinary powers of endurance,
co-ordination and mobility, plus speed
and elevation, probably has something of
value for the athlete. Since 1956, experi-
mental classes have been in progress
under the guidance of one of the Royal
Academy of Dancing’s principal teachers
with representative groups of jumpers and
hurdlers, who, after the routine of a
ballet class, showed improved co-ordina-
tion, muscular control and suppleness.
The Royal Academy of Dancing has
already been of great assistance to the
football-teams of boys’ schools in
England—and this suggests wide fields
THAT TELEVISION-SMILE
I don’t know what’s come over you since television came,
In every way, except this one, l feel you are the same :
You’re talking to me sensibly and nicely for a while,
Then suddenly you blind me with the sunshine of your smile :
Oh, please don’t smile that television-smile at me !
You didn’t smile like that before TV-^
You mention that the weather’s hot, or else there’ll be a drought,
Then, as when toothpaste-tubes are squeezed, your smile comes spurting out,
And leaves me with the creased and wrinkled tube to dream about —
So please don’t smile that television-smile at me !
I never knew how fiercely the limelight-glare could scorch
Until you beamed at me like a suspicious policeman’s torch —•
Though, maybe, you’re more like a bus-conductor than a cop
When you punctuate your speeches with a smile for every stop :
Oh, please don’t smile that television-smile at me !
It hurts me more than you, you must agree —
Remember how the orchard plum, where summer breezes croon,
Returns the smile of sunshine in the drowsy heat of noon,
And all that’s left to look at is the poor old shrivelled prune —
So please don’t smile your television-smile at me !
N.S.VV.
S WILLIAM.


outside the theatre in which ballet tech-
nique can be applied—including, possibly,
tennis. Perhaps the L.T.A.A. will
take up the idea with a view to frustrat-
ing the knavish tricks of Mr. Krarher.
After ballet-training, resulting in per-
manent retention by Australia of the
Davis Cup, our stars could retain their
amateur status and also get the pro-
fessional’s scale of payment by dancing
on the points at night and playing for
points by day.
“W. I. Semple”: The three walkers in
relay from Sydney Town Hall to New-
castle Town Hall, miles in 19hrs.
27min., met with a mixed reception.
Some felt they should have been exercis-
ing in the yard at Callan Park. Others
affably recalled bigger and better feats
“ Don't Waste your time, Harry — she’s probably very plain.”
from their own youth. A few motorists
deliberately drove at the walkers, mak-
ing them leap for the bushes ; but the
most dangerous response came in last
year’s walk from a youth in the back
of a red convertible who hurled a beer
bottle, unfortunately empty, at one
perspiring walker with the comment, “Yer
bloody mug!” This year’s effort cut
lhr. 26min. off the previous best, and
was not far off the time taken by a
relay of 15 walkers headed by Athol
Stubbs in the 1930’5.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Wusslean”: It was reported that
Victorian police had released, without
charging, a man who had displayed an
allegedly indecent tattoo on his arm in
Melbourne’s Russell Street (B. 11/2/’59),
but six weeks after the arm in
question had been photographed at
police-headquarters the photos produced
in the City Court earned the tattooed
gent a fine of a fiver, the magistrate
holding that he had exhibited an obscene
picture. And all because tattooists are
back in the old-fashioned era of pre-
abstract art!
❖ ♦> *l*
“Old China Hand”: As to the differ-
ence between cultural practices in Asian
and Western countries (B. 4/3/’59), on
a train in China in the old days I saw a
young Chinese woman suckling an old
bearded man in a Pullman-berth. It
appears that the old gent was an opium-
smoker, and when one has taken opium
for many years it becomes impossible for
the addict to stomach any other form
of nourishment.
* * *
“Fontaine”: British Prime Minister
Macmillan has made hats his gimmick.
On his visit to Khrushchev he wore
Russian headgear ; in Northern Ireland
he chose a cloth cap ; and he’s sporting
a bowler on his tour of North America.
Baldwin had a pipe, as did Ben Chifley ;
Stanley Bruce had spats ; Ike has his
golf-clubs, and Khrushchev has his well-
filled glass of vodka. But the best one
can do with R. G. Menzies is to associate
him with cricket, and, because of his
membership of the Carlton (Vic.) Foot-
ball Club, with our great provincial
game.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: After listening to an
A.B.C. session of Welsh music on St.
David’s Day a New Australian market-
gardener turned to a friend of Welsh
descent and asked if he was right in
saying that the leek is the national
emblem of Wales. When assured that
he was correct, he asked, “Then why do
you call your march ‘The Men of
Garlic’?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“E. & 0.E.”: There was a between-
wars story of a schoolboy who always
lost first place in class to a girl. “Surely
you aren’t going to let yourself be beaten
by a mere girl!” his father said. “But,
Father,” the boy said, “girls aren’t nearly
as mere as they used to be.” And this
season we heard many stories of surf-
rescues made by quite little girls, and
on a small excursion - steamer in
southern Tasmania a deckhand, trying
to regain his ship after casting-off the
ropes, missed the rail and fell into the
water. A strong wind was blowing ; it
wasn't easy to turn the steamer or launch
a boat; and the man couldn’t swim. A
girl of 14 dived in, held him up, and
even got him ashore, before a boat could
arrive to help her. The deckhand raised
no objection to being saved by a mere
girl ; he seemed to think she had done a
good job.
❖ *> ♦!«
“Sir Jay”: Tell “Hattie Hop” (B.
11/3/’59) that if she had asked for a
“dip”-pen (the name by which a pen-
holder is known to the modern school-
boy), she would have had less trouble.
They are still in use in what some people
call the best public-school in Australia,
which only recently lifted a ban on ball-
point pens.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Insign”: Apropos pub names, I’ve
seen nothing in Australcohology to equal
The Thirteenth Mounted Cheshire Rifle-
man Inn, at Stalybridge, Cheshire, Eng-
land. Nor, for brevity, “G. 1.,” “XL,” or
“C. 8.” The first is at Hastings (England);
the second in Edinburgh (Scotland); and
the third at Richmond, Yorkshire (Eng-
land), and commemorates, in his initials,
a local magnate.
“Doric”: The man who played the
piano was once overwhelmed with in-
vitations ; people giving parties would
say, “We’ll ask Doric —he plays !” But
it’s not much of a social asset nowadays ;
pianos are scarce in private homes. Some
families own them as bequests from
deceased relatives, but they are invariably
never tuned, and eventually are sold be-
cause nobody plays them. Perhaps it is
a good idea in the end, as only those
who show real feeling for music are
taught, and music is not a compulsory
subject, now, for “refined young ladies.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“R.R.D.”: I can't let you get away
with it, “Piketrailer.” The Royal Regi-
ment of Artillery is not the Royal Regi-
ment (B. 18/3/’59). There were only two
Royal Regiments unclassified and, as far
as I know, they still carry the plain
monicker —the Ist or Royal Dragoons
and the Royal Scots (The Royal Regi-
ment). When old records refer to “the
Royal Regiment” or “the Royals,” they
were by context dragoons on foot. The
Royal Navy call the Marines “the
Royals” by their own custom. But the
gunners—the Royal Regiment of Artil-
lery. It all started when General Cosmo
Stewart, a gunner, wrote an article in
“Blackwood’s Magazine” about the
Indian mountain-batteries and entitled it
Also of the Royal Regiment. Nobody
bothered to say anything about it at the
time, and now here are you, a foot-
slogger unless your pseudonym belies
you, perpetuating this pretension!


Changed Much?
A Cattle-sale in the Far North
By "NUMBUDGEE"
During the wet season
in the Far North,
with flooded rivers and
waterlogged country,
stock-work remains at a stand-
still. In March the skies are
clear, and the Peninsula cattle-
men prepare for another
muster on the vast pastoral
holdings in that territory.
Rookby, Merluna, York
Downs, Silver Plains and
Yarraden are just a few of the
stations, but there are many
others. Some of these hold-
ings cover 2000 square-miles
of country and carry 6000-head
of branded cattle, with prob-
ably another 600 “scrubbers”
(wild, unbranded cattle). As
a great part of this country
is covered with dense forest,
mustering becomes difficult and
dangerous work, and good
stockmen are hard to find these
days; for, as one old-time
drover prophesied: “Unless
the younger generation breed
their own stockmen, wild
cattle will take charge in twenty
years’ time.”
And so . . . there’s “move-
ment on the station”; horses
are shod; gear repaired and
put in first-class condition, and
the “plants”—each consisting
of about two white men and
four colored boys, with spare
horses for the men, and pack-
horses to carry their camping-
gear, swags, tucker and brands,
etc. —are on the move. They
will be out from six to seven
weeks, branding and earmark-
ing calves, mustering and hold-
ing bullocks. All going well,
they should be back late in
April with from 600 to 1000
cattle ready to hand-over to
the drovers for the long trek to
Marina Plains, there to embark
on the barge Wewak for trans-
port to Cairns, or, alternately,
to the saleyards at Mareeba —
a distance of up to 500 miles
from the furthermost point,
and a journey which couM
take up to two months, depend-
ing on the time of the year.
Travelling along the stock-
route the cattle are dipped—
to kill tick and buffalo-fly—at
Laura (small township 67 miles
north-east from Cooktown),
after which they proceed via
Butcher Hill Station, which is
one of the most improved pro-
perties in that area, and carries
a very good herd of Brahman-
cross cattle. At this stage the
drovers have already covered
up to 250 miles, and some of
the bullocks are showing signs
of foot-soreness.
Leaving Butcher Hill, they
must cross the hard, stony
Byerstown Range, and travel
on what is no more than a
goat-pad to The Nobbys
(Government watering-place)
—a horror-stretch, over which
a mob of 600 could be spread
out single-file, the “lead” being
two miles ahead of the tail-
enders. Every day a few more
dsop back to join the rear
“You must be mistaken , steward. We didn't order
any dry martinis.”
division ; the stones play havoc
with their feet, and shoeing
becomes necessary—probably
four to six head to be shod
every afternoon on this rough
patch. It’s a nightmare trip for
the amateur, but for these
hardy men of the Peninsula
it’s all in a day’s work. Bill,
and Fred Shepherd, Rod
Heinemann, Bill Wallace, Stan
Watkin and the Gostellow
Bros, are among the drovers
that “know every stone on the
road.” They are usually
credited with a 97 per cent,
delivery to the saleyards. On
again, and over the Cooktown
Crossing, up the Mitchell River
to Font Hill Station, where
the cattle must pass through
the Government dip. They are
now four “easy” days from
Mareeba.
Drovers contrive to arrive at
their destination four or five
days before the sale, so as to
“spell” the cattle, and have
them inoculated against
pleuro. All sales are attended
by the stock-inspector and the
local police-sergeant, whose
duty it is to see that brands
and earmarks are in order.
Cattle are yarded on the after-
noon prior to the sale so that
they can be drafted into
separate pens—according to
the various grades of quality
and size. As they are drafted-
off at the rate of, say, 150-head
an hour, the classer has to
sum-up at a glance whether
they are “fats,” “forward” or
“backward stores,” or
“boners.” These latter are the
“scrubbers,” or any old beasts
that have missed previous
musterings, and, because of
shortage of labor and lack of
improvements, are hardly
worth the time spent in round-
ing them up. They are a
menace to the grazier, eat
valuable grass, and, as herds
improve, will have to be elimi-
nated. When mustered, cattle
of this type are held for as
brief a time as possible before
sending to the saleyards, where
they bring a very low price as
“boners.”
HThe sale having been adver-
tised by medium of the
newspapers, radio, and “bush
wireless,” anybody and every-
body who has ever had any-
thing to do with livestock will
be there. To those who have
retired from active work, and
have shifted into the city, the
atmosphere evokes nostalgic
memories of other days. Some
go to buy, some to sell, and
others just to look on.
Dawns the morning of the
sale . , . We send Jacky, our
aboriginal stockman, on ahead
—riding horseback, in case we
buy some cattle, when he will
drive them home. Then we
breakfast early, pack a flask of
tea and some scones, collect
our mail to be posted, and
make an early start travelling
by truck along our “good
little bush-road”—as my hus-
band calls it—which slows us
down to about five miles an
hour, before we hit the main
road. On the way we open
and shut four gates (my job);
shovel a few spadefuls of sand
into a pot-hole or two; call in
to see if the old man who lives
at the turn-off wants a paper,
or some bread, or maybe a lift
into town. Later we stop to
pick-up a schoolgirl who has
quite a distance to walk with a
heavy load of books. She is an
English migrant, and says that
she would like to go back
home, but her mother and
father are quite happy in Aus-
tralia. She smiles shyly when
we assure her she’ll probably
meet a fine young Australian
boy later on, when she will
change her mind . . .
Arriving in Mareeba, we
call at the bakers’ for our
bread and stack it in the back
of the truck ; then to the news-
agents for the papers ; put in
our orders for beef and
groceries ; around to the post-
office to post and collect mail;
on to the service-station to re-
fuel ; then out over Granite
(<Continued on page 32)


POLITICAL POINTS
Last week a cartoon on this page
depicted Premier Cahill and Premier
Hawke telephoning each other and both
saying, “I think we’re being cut-off.”
This needs correction. Only Hawke was
cut-off. Cahill, it appears, merely had
a faulty connection on a party-line.
• •
Counting after Saturday’s poll in
N.S.W. was a repetition of 1956, with
the numbers very even and the issue
hanging in doubt in several seats. As in
1956, the night closed with the smile on
the face of Labor —though it was more
of relief than of triumph.
• •
To force a change of Government the
Opposition parties had to win seats in
both city and country as half the mar-
ginal seats were in metropolitan elec-
torates. These were North Sydney, Ryde,
Concord and Rockdale. As soon as the
tally reached figures big enough to be
significant it was seen that Ray Maher,
Labor member for North Sydney, was
going ahead to a comfortable lead—prob-
ably as much to his own surprise as any-
one else’s. In Ryde the Labor mem-
ber (F. G. Downing) also had a handy
lead and there was no sign of any con-
siderable swing in Concord oi Rockdale.
In the country Dubbo and Young were
living up to Opposition hopes, and there
were chances of Liberal or Country-
party gains in one or two other seats,
but not enough to make up for the
failure to gain seats in the city, plus the
loss by the Liberals of Parramatta,
written-off as a redistribution casualty
before the poll began.
By 11 p.m. Cahill was accepting
congratulations on his victory the
seventh in succession for his party and
his own third as Premier —and
Morton, while still keeping an optimistic
eye on country returns, was reconciling
himself to another term in Opposition.
• •
At close of counting for the weekend
several seats were still playing hard-to-get,
but the most likely result seemed to be
Labor, 48 ; Liberal and Country-party,
45; Independent, 1. This estimate
assumes that Labor will lose Mudgee
but will hold its other threatened seats.
The position in Mudgee is that L. M.
Nott (A.L.P.) is 735 votes behind the
combined Lib. and C.-P. total. At the
same stage three years ago he was 350
ahead and eventually won by an absolute
majority of 227. If the present trend
continues he will need considerably more
than 20 per cent, of preferences to hold
the seat.
• •
Liberal and Country-party hopes, dis-
appointed once again in N.S.W., were
realised in Westralia, where the Hawke
Labor Government, after six years in
office, was narrowly defeated on Satur-
day. Before the poll Labor held 29 seats
in the W.A. Assembly and the Opposition
21. In the new House the Liberal-
Country-party coalition will have 26 or
27 and Labor 23 or 24. Labor lost to
the Liberals Canning and Wembley
Beaches outright and Leederville, Perth
and Subiaco on the preferences of the
D.L.P. In contrast with N.S.W. the
D.L.P. vote was a significant factor—
it averaged 10 per cent.
New Westralian Premier will be David
Brand, M.L.A. for Greenough since 1945,
and Deputy-Premier, A F. Watts, leader
of the Country-party. Both have had
previous Ministerial experience. Watts
was Deputy-Premier and Minister for
Education, Local Government and In-
dustrial Development in the McLarty
Government, in which Brand held the
Works, Water Supply and Housing
portfolios.
• •
Cahill’s first hurdle jn the N.S.W.
Parliament is choice of the new Ministry,
for which there are many fresh aspirants.
It is canvassed that caucus will give
the Speakership to F. O. Purdue
(Waratah), a former Lord Mayor of
Newcastle and a true Independent.
Purdue would probably make a sound
and impartial speaker. But does Labor
want an impartial Speaker?
• •
The win that probably gave Cahill the
greatest satisfaction was Hurstville, the
seat from which Clive Evatt was ejected
by his one-time private secretary W. M.
Rigby. The best Clive could do against
the party-machine was to finish third
behind the Liberal and A.L.P. candidates.
His preferences will put Rigby in.
• •
[From Canberra]
Re-establishment of diplomatic rela-
tions with Russia will put an end
to the position of Britain having to play
stepmother to Australian interests in
Russia, while the Swedes played out the
part at Canberra. It will also end the
position where Czechoslovakia and other
countries (a sort of Communist “pie”)
bought on the Australian wool
market for Russia, but without the
stimulating effect of outright Russian
bidding at the sales.
Meantime, the Russians are losing no
time in making arrangements for the
move back to Canberra of a diplomatic
mission. Russian Ecafe delegate C.
Lesscovski flew into Canberra from
Broadbeach and started organising the
setting-up of the mission. He has given
orders for the renovation of the Russian
Embassy building, which has been
occupied only by a caretaker since the
break in 1954. He also has the task of
finding at least half-a-dozen houses, in
this accommodation-starved city, for
members of the staff, other than the
leader of the mission.
“Will you still love me, Ramsay, if Wool prices drop again?"


When told at a press interview that
the Scots were burning Australian
“immigration literature,” Menzies refused
to be drawn into any harsh comment. “I
saw that,” he said. “I concluded it must
have been a cold winter.”
• •
New Zealand Parliament has issued a
new list of naughty words, use of which
is forbidden within its precincts. Can-
berra’s list hasn’t been brought up-to-
date since Archie Cameron died, but
last week’s debates suggest that it’s time
it was.
• •
The Gollan-Landa argument over the
tenancy of Bondi Beach Pavilion granted
by Waverley Council to a football club
managed to last out the length of the
election-campaign without involving the
rest of the N.S.W. Cabinet, but only
just. On Thursday Gollan announced
that Attorney-General Downing would
take action on Monday to evict the club,
adding that Downing would have acted
earlier but for the heavy claims on his
time.
Incidentally, the special newspaper put
out by Labor as election-fodder contained
the photos of every Cahill Minister
except one —Lands Minister Gollan. The
paper was printed in Bondi.
• •
Bolte’s assertion in the Victorian
Assembly that “by being Victorians at
this juncture, we are being the greatest
Australians in Australia” was not as
foolishly boastful as it may have sounded.
He was referring to Victoria’s intake of
almost half the total Australian migrants
and perhaps more than half of the in-
vestment.
• •
In the N.S.W. poll the Liberal and
Country parties stressed, with some
reason, the much younger average age of
their members and candidates than that
of their Labor opponents, who had
“grown old and tired in office.” In South
Australia the nine new members of the
State Parliament have an average age of
only 40; collectively they’re 304 years
younger than the members they replaced,
whose average age was more than 73.
• •
Bills intended to bring the Northern
Territory a step nearer self-government
were introduced into the House of
Representatives last week. The most im-
portant change will be to reduce from
seven to six the number of nominated
official members (other than the Admin-
istrator) of the N.T. Legislative Council
and increase from six to eight the num-
ber of elected members. This will not,
however, give control of the council to
the elected members. There will be a
new category of non-official nominated
members —about three —and these will,
in effect, hold the balance of power be-
tween elected members and official
nominees.
J. A. Cunningham, A.L.P. candidate
for Burwood, who had already made the
headlines by criticising the Cahill Gov-
ernment’s handling of housing and trans-
port, got there again last week when the
president of the Flat and Property
Owners’ Association quoted him as being
in favor of a 40 per cent, rise in rents.
The statement was based on Cunning-
ham’s written reply to a questionnaire
sent to all candidates. One question
asked was:
Are you in favor of supporting a
blanket increase on 1939 rental values up
to the average of what has been granted
in other States of the Commonwealth?
Cunningham had replied “yes,” but after
the headlines he claimed that he had
made a mistake in the haste of the cam-
paign. He said he believed in rent-
control and that the question had been
loaded. The question seems plain
enough. Perhaps Cunningham realised
afterwards that his answer was loaded —
with trouble.
• •
America’s Vanguard I has completed
its first year in orbit round the earth —
3921 laps and a total of 131,318,211
miles. That’s just the beginning; it’s
expected to keep up its. monotonous
globe-circling for something like 2000
years.
• •
In Britain a Parliamentary select com-
mittee discussing ways of modernising
procedure has reported that “many
speeches could be made shorter to the
advantage of all members,” and that
even front-benchers should be able to
express their points well within half-an-
hour. This could be applied, as an
understatement, to the Federal Parlia-
ment as well as the State talking-shops.
e •
W. L. Chapman, Liberal M.L.A. for
Nepean, claims to have seen plans for
approaches to the new Gladesville bridge
which included six toll-gates, although
in announcing plans for the bridge on
March 2 Premier Cahill made no men-
tion of tolls. When Morton disclosed
this at a meeting at Ryde on March 6
Local Government Minister Renshaw
denied that it was intended to charge a
toll, adding that to erect toll-gates would
involve “the resumption of a consider-
ably larger area of land than was
planned.”
Last Thursday the Liberal candidate
for Ryde (the electorate in which the
bridge is to be erected) said that on
March 9 “the Department of Main
Roads paid a cheque for the acquisition
of a property at the crest of Cambridge
Road where the toll-gates were depicted
on the plans Mr. Chapman saw.”
There is nothing criminally wrong in
erecting a toll-bridge. But it is politically
dishonest to conceal such an intention
just because an election is at hand. And
even worse to change carefully considered
plans for fear of their effect in a vital
electorate held by a narrow margin.
• •
A poll to decide if Victorian wool-
growers want a reserve-price for wool
will be taken by the Victorian Wheat
and' Woolgrowers’ Association. At the
Association’s annual meeting in Mel-
bourne, it was predicted the poll would
show a landslide in favor.
• - •
The Clerks’ Union should applaud the
example set by Parimax Pty., Ltd., which
pays one of its clerks £4O a week. Clerk
in question is Max Falstein, former
M.H.R. for Watson, and former manag-
ing-director of Parimax Pty., Ltd.
Present managing-director is Max’s 21-
year - old son Anthony, who, at £5O a
week, plus another £3O a week from
Tower Television Pty., Ltd., seems to be
a credit to his father’s tutelage. These
figures were disclosed in Sydney Bank-
ruptcy Court in proceedings which ended
in Falstein senior being ordered to pay
his creditors £lOO a month. (Deficiency
disclosed by Max’s statement last
August, £60,856, but he claims the actual
figure will be more like £13,000).
• •
“Mugga Way”: There’s been no notice-
able rejoicing in Melbourne at a sug-
gestion that the historic Customs House
in Flinders Street just saved from
demolition which would have made room
for a block of Commonwealth offices—
should be turned into a club for Federal
M.P.s. Proposals that the Long Room
would accommodate several billiard-
tables have been greeted with less than
enthusiasm by everyone except the Vic-
torian M.H.R.s and Senators.
• •
Plenty of money besides drills is
being sunk in the search for oil in Aus-
tralia, National Development Minister
Spooner says that in four years the total
of overseas capital from sterling and
dollar-sources has been more than £2O
million, including an estimated £4,865,000
this year. The total has included more
than £l2} million in Papua-New Guinea
and more than million in W.A. The
only State where no money’s been spent
on the search seems to be Tasmania.
• •
Coleman’s resignation from the party
is a blow to the D.L.P. in Victoria ; he
was one of its soundest supporters and,
earlier, one of the stabilising, anti-Red
influences in John Cain’s A.L.P.
Calwell claims to have discovered that
Coleman was told last year he couldn’t
be No. 1 on the D.L.P. ticket because
he was -a Roman Catholic, and he is
busily denouncing this, with a whoop of
joy, as a sectarian plot. It’s a point that’s
right up Arthur’s two-bob-each-way
alley.
• •
“Stromlo”: Asian appreciation of the
Barossa Valley (S.A.) is noted as enthu-
siastic in an unpublished survey of the
area conducted in 1956 by Sydney Uni-
versity’s department of social studies. The
department arranged a field-study of
community-development in the area for
20 of its Asian students, from Indonesia,
Malaya, Pakistan, Siam and the Philip-
pines. The next survey is to be made in
the Murray Valley.


Personal
ITEMS
A round of conferences extending
right across the Pacific lies ahead of
External Affairs Minister Casey, now that
he has finished leading the Australian
delegation at the Ecafe talks at Broad-
beach (Q.). First a week’s official visit
to Japan, followed by a few days in
Korea, then back for two days in Mel-
bourne before going on to M.L. for the
Seato talks due to open there on April 7.
• •
lan Mason, a bearded Scottish scientist,
left an Edinburgh that was blanketed
with deep snow and landed at Perth air-
port in a Westralian heatwave. A
geneticist from Edinburgh University, he
has come to lecture on animal-breeding
and genetics at the invitation of the
Queensland University. He hopes to
pick -up first - hand information on
animal-breeding in tropical Australia.
• •
John Mangham, 23-year-old junior-
farmer of Merredin (W.A.), has been
selected for a three-month study-tour of
New Zealand. In return, an Enzed junior-
farmer will visit Westralia. Mangham
was chosen from nine applicants by two
selection-panels, one made-up of junior-
farmers. His travelling-expenses will be
paid by contributions from Westralian
junior-farmer clubs.
• •
A Robert Burns Fellowship, founded
by a group of Scots in Otago (N.Z.) to
commemorate the bicentenary, has been
won by journalist and author lan Cross,
who wrote God Boy. A native of
Wanganui, he’s public-relations officer for
the Justice Department. The publishers
of God Boy have accepted a second
book of his. The Fellowship, which will
be associated with Otago University, is
designed to encourage N.Z. writers.
• •
Veteran Parliamentarian and former
Minister for Lands Lindsay Thorn did
not seek re-election for the Toodyay seat
in the Westralian Assembly ; he had held
Toodyay for the Country party for the
past 29 years. A gunner of the first
A.1.F., and a vigneron in more peaceful
times.
• •
“Uramao”: Calling it a day after 40
years in the N.Z. Public Service Depart-
ment, W. F. Young, the Dominion’s first
director of roading, started as a draughts-
man and gravitated to roads and railway-
tracks, taking time off during War 11,
as lieut.-colonel commanding the N.Z.
Railway Construction Unit which built
the 250-mile desert railway from Mersa
Matruh to Tobruk. Side interests have
included irrigation and soil-erosion.
Minister for Defence Athol Gordon
Townley belies his 51 years by a youth-
ful appearance and almost boyish energy.
A Tasmanian chemist —younger brother
of R. C. Townley, M.H.A., a Tasmanian
Leader of the Opposition—he was known
before War II as an athlete whose
recreations ranged from fishing to foot-
ball and from cricket to flying.
He entered the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment in 1949, and it took him less than
DEFENCE MINISTER
five years to make the Ministry—as
Minister for Air and Civil Aviation, he
by that time being an air veteran who
had been president of the S. Tasmanian
Aero Club as far back as 1934. He is
an airman of professional standard, but
went through the war in the crash-boats
of the R.A.N.R. The invasion of Sydney
Harbor by Japanese midget submarines
was the star occasion in his career —he
sank one of the midgets.
As Air Minister he showed himself
progressive and vigorous, and succeeding
Sir Philip Mcßride he has brought to
the Defence Ministry a new vigor both
in approach and direction and an out-
spokenness which should get results. His
ideas of defence - structure are 1959
vintage.
• •
Leading British anaesthetist Professor
W. W. Mushin, who was at the annual
meeting of the Australian Society of
Anaesthetists in Hobart, is to lecture and
demonstrate in Melbourne and also assist
at the anaesthetist examinations of the
Royal Australasian College of Surgeons.
He’s Professor of Anaesthetics at the
Welsh National School of Medicine at
Cardiff.
• •
N.Z. left-hander Bert Sutcliffe, possibly
the best batsman Maoriland ever pro-
duced, has retired from Test-cricket at
36. No relation to his English name-
sake (famous left - hander Test - batsman
Herbert Sutcliffe; the Enzedder was
christened Bert, not Herbert or
Albert), he played in 30 Tests, and is
the only New Zealander to make over
2000 runs in Tests. In 1949 he made
2627 runs on a tour of England, only
Bradman, with 2960 in 1930, bettering
that total for .an English tour. In South
Africa in 1953-54, in the second Test,
Sutcliffe was struck a terrific blow on
the head by a bumper from Adcock
before he’d scored. He fell, and many
thought he had been killed. Several
hours later, with N.Z. batting at 6-82
and with his head bandaged, he resumed,
to hit seven sixes and four fours in
making 80 not-out —an innings described
by one South African writer as “the
greatest 80 ever made in Test-cricket.”
• •
Two former advertising copywriters
took the major prizes in the play-
competition sponsored by ATN7, Sydney,
GTV9, Melbourne, and the Shell Co.
of Australia. Robin Corfield, of
Heidelberg (Vic.), won £1250 with “The
Day Called Black,” based on the Vic-
torian bushfires on January 13, 1939.
Paul Chidlow, of Toorak (Vic.), collected
second-prize of £750 for “The Bed by the
Window.” Both were making their first
attempt at radio-plays.
• •
“A.R.”: In addition to seeing service
in Malaya, Charles Moses (B. 11/3/’59)
spent some time with his British regiment
in Ireland during the “troubles.” He
passed the Oxford junior local examina-
tion at the age of 13, the Oxford senior
two years later, and the London Uni.
Matric. when 16. At the time he was
an announcer for station 3AR he played
Rngby Union with St. Kilda. He repre-
sented Victoria against the “All Blacks”
Maori team, and also skippered the
Harlequins.
• •
In 1859 W. E. and A. S. King, grand-
sons of Governor Philip King, started
as stock - and - station agents at Kirk’s
Bazaar, Bourke Street, Melbourne. After
W. E. King left the firm, the business
became for a time a partnership, King
and Cunningham, and then for many
years A. S. King and Sons, until J. P.
Ballantine was taken into partnership
and it became King, Sons and Ballantine
—its name today. On the death of Allan
King (a son of A. S. King) Cyril Buck-
land became, and still is, sole proprietor.
It’s the oldest stock-and-station agency
operating at Melbourne’s Newmarket
saleyards. The first recorded sale of cattle


in its books took place just on 100 years
ago (May 17, 1859), when 176 bullocks
were sold on behalf of John King and
Co., The Range, Rosedale (Vic.). Another
early sale was for E. Crooke, The Holey
Plain, Rosedale, which property is still
in the same family, and its present owner,
E. M. Crooke, still a client of the firm.
o •
Allan Wilkie, .who trod the boards
here in Shakspeare and a host of other
offerings back in the 1920’s and there-
abouts, has decided, at 81, to spend the
rest of his days in Australia. Including
his touring all round the map here,
he’s put-in about 30 years of his life
globe-trotting.
• 0
Retired after 22 years in the Anglican
church-offices in Perth, R. B. Peagam
joined the staff as diocesan accountant
in 1937. With the R.A.A.F. in War 11,
he was subsequently appointed diocesan
registrar and secretary of both the
diocesan council and diocesan trustees.
0 0
“Uramao” r~One of the first group of
youths to enter the N.Z. division of the
Royal Navy, Commodore G. R. Davis-
Goff is now about to retire. He
was with H.M.S. Diomede in the
Mediterranean when Mussolini was
giving trouble in Abyssinia ; was at the
battle of the River Plate in H.M.N.Z.S.
Achilles ; served on Russian convoys ;
was later in H.M.N.Z.S. Gambia, attack-
ing the Japanese mainland ; then for a
year commanded the N.Z. frigate Hawea
in the Korean war-zone, He became
commodore in charge of the Auckland
station in 1956.
STANLEY GILBERT HAWES,
Producer-in-Chief, Australian National
Film Board, for which he has produced
some 200 films, including “School in the
Mailbox” (1946), “Flight Plan” (1950),
the official color film of the Royal Tour
and “ Melbourne —Olympic City” (color
and CinemaScope).
“Ailsey”: Still going strong at Hamil-
ton (N.S.W.), that same Bill Squires who
was one-time Australian heavyweight
champ. (1905-1909). Bill Lang beat him
for the title in 17 rounds. “Boshter Bill”
Squires, now close on 80, was, in the hey-
day of the Ring, nothing short of a
national hero. About 4000 rolled-up to
welcome him at Sydney’s Central Station
when he got back from an 18-month
trip overseas, and 3000 others crowded
at his hotel in George Street. He
fought world heavyweight - champion
Tommy Burns three times, but wasn’t
quite good enough for Tahmmy. Bill
was once asked the stereotyped question
of the callow reporter: “Tell me, Mr.
Squires, to what do you attribute your
success?” Bill gave it some thought.
“Aw,” he said, “I just hit ’em.”
• -0
Professor H. T. Amrine —engineer from
the U.S. —will help to establish a new
school of industrial engineering at Mel-
bourne University this year. During his
nine - months’ stay he will lecture and
also give engineering education and prac-
tice the once-over. Another guest Ameri-
can lecturer booked to work at the Uni.
this year is E. A. Wilkening, Professor
of Rural Sociology at the University of
Wisconsin, who will also study the effects
on farmers of new practices in agriculture
—chiefly in the dairying area of north-
east Victoria.
• •
Heading a drive to win 30,000 new
members for the Victorian Returned
Servicemen’s League, Commander J. G.
Brodie, who’s president of the Upwey
branch, is a former member of the
British Legion. He served in the Royal
Navy at the Dardanelles and Jutland
and captained destroyers on Atlantic con-
voy during War 11. He hopes to get
100,000 R.S.L. members in Victoria —
which will be close to the 1945 peak of
105,000.
• •
Shigeo Horie, president of the Bank
of Japan, talking-over prospects here
with bankers and Federal Ministers, has
told them that Nippon wants to invest
capital in Australia and hopes this will
lead to establishing companies on a
50-50 Australian-Japanese basis, managed
by Australians and most of them making
machinery. Some would also complete
unfinished goods imported from Japan,
though he gives the assurance that
there’ll be no encouraging of any Japa-
nese enterprise that might compete with
existing Australian industries.
• •
The N.S.W. Police Rescue Squad,
led by Sergeant Ware, is constantly in
the news. Its members are out, on the
average, about once a week, saving people
who get over cliffs children birds-
nesting, rock - fishermen caught by the
tide, specimen-hunters. The rescue chaps
also deal with bushfires, floods and other
emergencies.
Senior Constable Ray Tyson (sketched
top right), though never much in the
“TOP-MAN”
public view, is the “top-man.” His job
is to stand at the top of the cliff, work-
ing the swinging derrick which holds the
rope on which the cliff-climbers depend.
Born in Sydney, in the Force since 1940,
he holds the King’s Police Medal
and the Royal Humane Society’s
Medal. He won these for jumping from
the top of a cliff to a ledge about 2ft.
wide on the cliff-face and wrestling there
with a man attempting to commit suicide,
above a drop of 200 ft.
• •
Into the Silence: —-
In Perth, at 70, George Allan Mackay,
pioneer Westralian broadcaster. Born in
Queensland, he was a pre-1914 militia subaltern,
but sank his rank to serve with the Australian
force in German New Guinea in 1914. After
War I he acquired—in western Queensland,
N.S.W. and then as a farmer in Westralia —■
the background for the A.B.C.’s Country Hour
and rural talks which he later launched in
Perth.
In Melbourne, at 83, Captain L. E. D.
Moodie Heddle, 0.8. E., formerly master of
the inter-State passenger-liner Katoomba. Born
in the Orkney Islands, he went to sea at 15,
joined Mcllwraith McEachern early in the
century, and had charge of the Katoomba from
the time she was built in 1912 till his retire-
ment in 1936. In War I the Katoomba was a
troopship in the Atlantic and Mediterranean,
and at the finish Captain Moodie Heddle took
her through the Dardanelles as the first Allied
merchant-vessel to make the passage after the
Armistice.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 58, Francis Gordon
Wilson, Government architect since 1952. He
planned some of the largest buildings in N.Z.,
including the Dominion Museum, the State
Fire Office and the Central Library in
Wellington.
At Faulconbridge (N.S.W.), Thomas Stanley
Summerhayes, one of the founders of Sydney’s
Metropolitan Business College.
In Sydney, at 71, E. D. Hordern, former
chairman and managing-director of Hordern
Brothers, Ltd., a member of the Council of
the Retail Traders’ Association and one of its
trustees. He served on Gallipoli and in France
in War I.
In Adelaide, Brigadier William Augustus
Trott; with the A.I.F. on Gallipoli and in
France and later with the Indian Army, 1919-47,
In Adelaide, at 74, James Michael Beer worth,
former Mayor of Port Augusta, M.L.A. for
Newcastle (S.A.) 1933-38, M-L.C. for Northern
Districts 1939-47.


ABORIGINALITIES
BANGING THE BEES
HPhe legend which grew about the
apiarist’s tin - beating business per-
sisted because in all cases the bees were
already milling, preparatory to clustering,
at the time the beater seized his tin.
Many things will cause a swarm to cease
their journeying. A broad river won’t,
but a cluster of timber on a plain or
even a tractor in a wheatfield will, if
the bees have had enough. So will a
stand of bees. The travellers by chance
find themselves in a bee - traffic lane,
follow it to the stand, and then cluster
maybe on the end box.
The instinct of the bee tells her to set
the cells in the colony and, when they
ripen, go. Always, or nearly always, the
swarm will cluster just after emerging.
It is a preliminary check, a breathing-
space, to ascertain that all is well with
the travellers before the big journey com-
mences.
Those bees know if all isn’t well. If
the grasping type of beeherd has the
old queen in a match-box, or even has
a corner of her wing snipped, so that,
while the swarm clusters, she is fran-
tically running through the grass, toiling
up the stalks and taking-off again, the
bees know. They’ll return with a roar
to the colony they came from, pour in
and set frantic search, but they won’t
resume their journey. The smart ’herd
thinks he has won ; but the bees bide
their time, and when the first piping
virgin's wings harden to flight they’re
away. Try to drown their exultant boom
with a bong from a kero.-tin and they’ll
leave the butter-box through a nail-hole ;
and if you fill-in that they’ll go and
smother themselves, every last one, and
all you’ll have will be a brown, hot
heap and a voice from inside you, nagging
something.
Catch them at the end of a five-mile
journey and they’ll welcome you, even
if you have only a boot-box. It’s a great
feeling to hive a swarm and set it up in
your backyard. Probably it’s tied-in with
the something-for-nothing instinct. I’ve
seen a dozen swarms circling a great
yard of bees. When they unite and seek
out a branch the sight is good for a
beeherd’s eye provided he doesn’t
own ’em!
Now and again some passer -by
stumbles into one of these giant swarms,
rushes to the nearest bee-camp and makes
shapes in the air with his hands. A skep
would be of little use then. The apiarist
throws half-a-dozen supers on the truck
with a few bottom-boards and lids, and
cuts up the swarm into the pieces they
were originally.
B-HERD.
“Swan River”: In its early days Perth
suffered much from the lack of fresh
meat and vegetables. During the first
two years scurvy was active. To remedy
this, those not on Government rations
learned from the natives to chop-out the
small but palatable food offered by the
blackboy ( Xanthorrea ). In the black-
boy’s crown there is a white mass some-
thing like the meat of the coconut. Eaten
raw, it is as tasty and palatable as the
coconut; boiled, it serves in lieu of
potatoes. Being common land, and in-
deed about the only area then accessible
from Perth village, Mt. Eliza lost almost
all of its blackboys,
since chopping - off
the crown spelt the
death of the tree.
The small (because
slow-growing) Xan-
thorrea now in
King’s Park, not
more than 120 years
old, grew from seed.
* *
“Pieter Nuyts”:
Every now and
again you come
across evidence that
the Australian
aborigines could
reason more effec-
tively than they’re
given credit for.
The abo.’s spear, which has been criticised
as primitive, was probably more effective
in this country than bows and arrows
would have been, and I don’t think the
average white man, marooned here with-
out civilised man’s tools, could have
bettered the natives’ method of attaching
the flint or bone points. They used black-
boy-gum, heated and run over and around
the spearhead while the point was held
in position ; and the point held when the
spear was driven into and through a
leather-hided boomer. The blacks made
axes in the same way, after first heating
a granite rock by building a fire on it
and then dashing cold water on the rock.
Granite, under that treatment, shales off ;
and the best-shaped pieces were used as
tools, usually having the finer edge
ground-down by rubbing on another
stone. Many of these axes were used in
the hand, but some were fitted with
handles, flattened and grooved at one end
to fit the stone head and attached with
blackboy-gum. There were some quite
RAIN MAP
“What does it matter?’’ the old man said,
By a map in the city square,
“Whether the western plains are green,
Or black as my hat and bare?” . . ,
But as I listened, I only heard
The song that the rivers sing
When the monsoons nourish their
withered breasts—
I saw the duck take wing
From the lignum swamps in an ebon
surge
Of restless fume and. fret,
When the storm-bird shrilled to the falling
night
Its news of the coming Wet.
I heard the wind in the coolibahs,
The thunder of ghostly hooves
That was hard rain hitting the clay pan’s
face
On its way to the station roofs.
And I heard the curses of anxious men,
Caked to the waist with mud,
As they pushed and pummelled the
stubborn stock
A way from the coming flood.
But “What does it matter,” the old man
asked,
‘Whether the Western plains,
Are hot and bare as a breath of Hell,
Or green from the summer rains?
“We’ll never ride a horse again,
Or call a dog to heel” —
And I knew he lied by the way he traced
The “Low” over Camooweal.
With a horny finger, tanned by time,
And wearing the ancient brand
Of heat that bubbles like brittle glass
On the wires of the Overland.
And I knew he lied as he loitered on,
Hiding a shamefaced grin.
As he muttered “You’d think the silly
coots
Would put the rainfalls in.”
And though I'll never know his name
Or where he may abide,
He’s just the sort of man I’d like
To travel by my side
If I should chance to beat the clock,
And hit the trail again: —
And all because we met and passed,
And talked awhile of Rain.
Q-
E. R. MURRAY.


Thr£6 O'clock!
ewes, i setter.
8e eenW 'oiae
BtfOfZE THE AII SSuS
GOES CRjOOK. . °


big stones hafted in this way, and some
of them are still holding and usable.
* * * *
“8.J.L.”: Lusby’s hard-water shower
(B. 25/2/’59) took me back to my first
job after the war, canecutting up the
Intake Road at Cairns (Q.). Cairns water-
supply comes from a pool high in the
ranges, and our barracks, at the foot of
the mountain, were built beside the mains,
which the farmer was allowed to tap.
“Be careful in the shower-room,” he
warned, “turn the water on very gently
until you become used to it.” First man
in forgot; and the shock, combined with
the slippery floor, landed him on his bare
backside through the door. The pressure
behind that shower was over 901 b. to
the square-inch.
* * * *
“Heresone”: If “Marcus O’Hearn”
really wants to smell of eau-de-Cunna-
mulla, all he need do is wash his sports-
coat in the local bore-water (B. 25/2/’59).
Heavily mineralised, it shrouds the town
in a sulphurous effluvium, which to the
new arrival is the most striking feature
of the place. The residents seem un-
aware of it; even the visitor hardly
notices it after a couple of days. But
Back-paddle — he's going to sneeze !”
would it help one’s social standing to go
round smelling like Auld Clootie’s chief
offsider?
* * * *
“Piketrailer”: Australia and New
Zealand are hardly “down under” at the
London Zoo. In the annual stocktaking,
Chi Chi, an Asian panda, has the highest
value of any animal ever exhibited —
£12,000. But the most valuable fish is
the Australian lung-fish (£150) and the
highest-priced bird a £5OO kiwi. I liked
the remark at the end of the report:
“No figures are issued for the insect
house.” No four-engined Darwin mos-
quitoes?
* * * *
“V.M.”: The week - long heatwave
with four days over the century occa-
sioned some dry wit at a Westralian flour-
mill. Afternoon-shift was showering and
dressing, the packers leaving a patch of
dust where they shed their clobber. A
stacker chipped: “You don’t seem to
work too hard on the packing-floor or
that dust would be dough.” A packer
replied: “That’s not dust, it’s dehydrated
sweat.”
* * * *
“A.M.”: Traveller along the Hume
Highway spotted a fire starting in a
paddock, raced across, tore off his shirt,
and began to beat out the flames. A
motorist following him also stopped,
stepped carefully out of his new car,
crossed the road, turned his oamera
towards the fire-fighter, made a couple of
snaps . . . then back to the car and off
into the blue, the fire behind him still
blazing like mad.
* * * *
“Sackvilie”: Dame Mary Gilmore’s
assertion that the first buggy imported
from the U.S.A. was the Abbott (B.
25/2/’59) interested me, not only for the
information but because the vehicle was
called a “buggy.” Did the Yanks call ’em
that in those days? They don’t now.
In the film “Oklahoma!” the hero sang
of the delights of bowling along in a
vehicle called a “surrey.” If that vehicle
wasn’t a buggy, then we must have been
driving a surrey for a lot of years with-
out knowing it.
* * * *
“Lillydale”: In its heyday the town-
ship had a million mountain-ashes and
a hundred loggers, bachelors all. To this
celibate wilderness came the boarding-
house-keeper’s wife and her unmarried
sister, and the immediate and concerned
aim of the men to swap celibacy for
uxoriousness must indeed have daunted
the maiden trying to choose. Jim fixed
it. Always a diligent compiler of over-
time, he was last to eat on Friday, and
after Ada saw him out the door, there
on the floor behind his chair was his
savings-bank book. It bore eloquent
testimony to his eligibility, and wedding-
bells followed shortly.
“Bogaduck”: Nothing very mysterious
about birds such as waterhens knowing
it’s raining a few hundred miles away
(B. 25/2/’59). All monsoonal rains in
the tropics are accompanied by lightning,
whose reflections in the upper clouds
can be seen at a great distance, in the
form of a momentary glow on the
horizon. Coots, ducks and other wild-
fowl keep their wing-muscles exercised
by nightly flights. When the air is humid,
they fly high, sighting those reflections
of distant lightning, then heading for
them. There is also what meteorologists
call “extreme audibility,” in which a
sound is heard at an extraordinary dis-
tance, due to its being reflected along
what is known as an “inversion-layer”
of warm air in the upper atmosphere.
In February, 1931, for example, the
report of an 18-pounder gun, fired in
Cairo to signal sunset during the Moslem
fast of Ramadan, was heard 120 miles
away in the Libyan desert. The
same thing causes the sound of a thunder-
storm to be audible at far greater dis-
tances and is responsible for that
“thunder from a clear sky” phenomenon
often heard outback.
* * * jji
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Native cadets in New.
Guinea are to be trained as coastal
masters and coastal engineers in a
training-ship that will cost the Adminis-
tration about £BO,OOO. The 90ft. ship
will have a 9ft. 6in. draught and engines
of 312 h.-p., giving a service speed of
10 knots. There will be accommodation
for 16 cadets doing the four-year course,
and the ship will do normal Administra-
tion work during the training-programme.
The Administration is also considering
the establishment of a nautical school to
train native youths as seamen and engine-
operators in one-year courses.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Anyone know what a “chip
girl” is—or was? Looking through a
small handbook called Guide to the
Goldfields, published in 1855 at 94 Great
Bourke Street, Melbourne, I learnt that
as well as the usual equipment it was
a good idea to take to the ’fields some
books of songs for singing round the
campfire when the day’s business of
nugget-hunting was over. Four books
were advertised: “Lilly Dale”; “Villi-
kins and His Dinah”; “The Chip Girl”;
and “The Honest Working Man.” Some
of the gems included in the books were:
“The Buggin—A Bit from the Bendigo”;
“The First Hole”; “Forty-shillings and
Take Him Away”; “The Flash Digger”;
“The Queen’s Letter”; “The Cockney
Emigrant”; “The Unlucky Newchums”;
“Song of the Gold-digger’s Bride”; “The
Gambler’s Wife”; “The Bride’s Fare-
well”; “Hearts and Homes”; “Trap,
Trap, Trap”; “The Digger’s Choice”;
“The Old House at Home”; and last,
but seemingly not least, “The Dipping
of the Provincial Grand Master of the
Jolly Bricks on Board the Apne Cropper.”
What could that one have been about?
A slice of little-known migrant history?
Or just a dash of comic-relief?


T’d like the dinkum-oil from someone
in the know about the signals left at
homestead-gates by itinerants for the in-
formation of other knights of the road
who may be following. Did, for instance,
one or two stones on the gate, or a beer-
bottle pointing towards the house, signify
that the joint was good for a cheap hand-
out, that you’d have to work for it, or
advice to sheer away?—“H.R.M.”
* * * *
“Piketrailer”: I see that a battalion of
the Queen’s Own Nigeria Regiment, who
soldiered in Burma with 81 and 82 West
African Divs. in the last big contest, has
been called out to do battle with hordes
of quelea, or weaver-birds, which have
invaded north-eastern Nigeria and are
menacing farms. A latter-day African
echo of pre-war Light Horse forays with
Lewis-guns against the ravages of emu
and kangaroo —or have 1 got my military
history wrong?
* H= * *
“Jeyles”: Enjoying the amenity of a
rural milk-round, fond of the taste of
real cow-juice and blow the germs, we
always hung our billy on the front-gate
for bulk-milk and got just half-a-cup
over the two pints. Now a big city dis-
tributor has acquired the round, and
when careful spouse decants the billy
into two pint-bottles for the fridge it’s
always 2|oz. light; and the cream top
next morning is not 4in. but a measly
2|in. For two pins I’d bail one of the
Herefords.
* .* * *
“Salmon Gums”: Nominate honey-
eaters as the most likeable family of
birds in the Australian bush. They're
also probably as well known as most,
their wanderings as they follow the
blossoms bringing them constantly into
fresh districts and giving them a happy
association —you get to look for them
when the gums bloom. In W.A. some
species, such as the red wattle-bird, re-
tire to the extreme south-west for the
summer, and spread out north and east
from there for the nesting-season during
winter. They follow the blossoming of
the banksia and gums northward up the
coastal plain during autumn, and then
strike into the wheatbelt, some nesting
as far as 400 miles from their summer
quarters.
He * * #
The Drowned Gold of Gulgong
[From Stephen Blake, Broken Hill, N.S.W.]
A breath of dinkum Aussie aptly
describes “Duke” Tritton’s memoirs.
His receptive mind has released with
great clarity many fascinating pictures of
our vast inland, and the amount of
accurate detail is astounding. A very
pleasant breath indeed of our near-past is
exhaled from “Duke’s” lines and, clearly,
his pen has caught our distinctive Aus-
tralian atmosphere—the tang of the bush
—so elusive to so many writers and a
constant challenge to our ablest pens.
He has frequently dipped his pen into
a brew of gumleaves!
His reminiscences of the Gulgong
goldfield, and, in particular, Tom
Saunders and the Log Paddock, aroused
memories. In days gone by, for a
Sydney weekly, I had the pleasure of
FOOD FOR THOUGHT.
extracting from Tom Saunders an
account of his discovery of the Gulgong
goldfield. He was wheelchair-bound, but
was enjoying a mug at one of the
‘ locals,’ which, he assured me, was built
on almost hallowed ground. Most
emphatically the good earth below held
"The Drowned Gold of Gulgong”!
Talking with him, it seemed as though
the veil had been lifted from the past,
and a chap could envisage the whole
works of the “Roaring Days”—the
diggers, their tents, their shanties.
Yes, Duke, the digging in the Log
Paddock could be lucky A real under-
ground sea of water and none have sue-
needed there since. My Dad and Partners
at he Traelman name, pumped a 24 000
gallons an hour for two years, but it beat
them. There was, and is, gold there, but
that superabundance of super-brackish
water, so good for the stock, is no good
to diggers.
* * * *
Mauls and Wedges
„„ 4. u A. i. tv * i vswt
With Dame Mary Gilmore, as an old-
timer myself, I agree on an “Out-
back Day,” but I differ with her on the
use of the maul. The use of steel wedges
and hammers outclassed the maul 60
years ago. I know, as I have slaved with
both. The only trouble was, in the early
years, to , get the local blacksmith to
temper the wedges to stand the hammers,
but as time went on manufacturers of
wedges supp’ied suitably tempered
tools. On bridge - construction today
we use hammers and wedges on heavy
timber-dressing.
As I was bridge-building on railway
and traffic bridges before the turn of the
century in the west and north-west of
N.S.W., I read with great interest “Duke”
Tritton’s “Time Means Tucker.”
We did , he trip £rom Wyong Wee
Waa in j anua ry, 1905, with horse-teams,
transporting bridge-plant to a bridge over
the Namoi River, about four miles from
\y ee \y aa
j wa s foreman on the bridge over the
Castlereagh at Gulargambone in 1907,
the year that “Duke” was coach-driving
from Gular , Q Baradine But j must
correct hjm a$ , 0 , h itio „ of clarke - s
Monu it is a £ w miles south of
„
Blandford and not at Dough Boy
Hollow. Also the Dubbo-to-Coonamble
ine was built by Government day-laboi
(Railway Construction Branch), wages-
payments monthly. That is, earthworks,
and platelaying. Timber-work (this
covered bridges, culverts, platforms, tank-
stands, etc.), piece-work or contract.
This I know for a fact, as I took over
when eighteen (18) years of age, when my
father died, and completed the work he
had contracted for, the last portion being
the tank-stands and platforms at Gular.
and Coonamble.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone Cables & Telegrams
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327 “EMDECELEX,” Sydney
A. C. BUCKLE & CO.
{Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange ).
STOCK AND SHARE BROKER
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Phone: BL 2421-2
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “BUCKIEX,” Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
“Shakes” and Other Things
HThe “shake” in the share-
market has left behind it
some lower quotations, but not
many topliners have suffered.
B. cum rights, is near its
peak price for the year, and
C. with its building-
materials and chemical divi-
tions beginning to “come good”
in a noticeable way, has
reached a new high level.
ICIANZ has dropped only
because of disappointment
over the new note-issue, when
apparently a share-issue was
expected.
Frontliners and particularly
fancied secondliners are still
very high. But among the
neglected secondliners there are
some opportunities now offer-
ing. In Sydney, Linoleum
Holdings rights (B. 11/3/’59)
at ss. 6d. look a solid buy, and
Bradford Cotton ords. at 375.
give a yield of 6.7 p.c., and are
a useful income-producer in any
portfolio. There are other
secondliners with meat on their
bones, Ihe type being selected
according to taste. Some re-
quire a little time to mature,
but the benefits in the offing
seem definite enough, as
distinct from the very-long-
term hopes in the case of some
of the highest-priced shares.
Among the secondliners
worth waiting on are Victor
Electric Plaster, Peninsula
Plaster and Australian Gypsum,
all members of the same
gypsum group. Allied Mills
also looks attractive for hold-
ing, and Kandos and Australian
Cement, though not cheap
now, should repay holding.
With the sharemarket still
sorting itself out last week
after its setback, figures for
eight-months’ woolselling were
released. The cheque showed
a fall of 28.6 p.c., but with
prices above average for Feb-
ruary, and with some further
improvement towards the end
of last week.
In London two Common-
wealth loans offering 5| p.c.
and issued at £99 were partial
failures, a large proportion
being left with the underwriters.
There were special factors
affecting the market at the
time, and the rates offered were
below the effective rates obtain-
able from the previous offer-
ings.
One of the first reactions
from the setback in wool prices
has been a trend towards
“ How's school ?”
curtailment of pasture-
improvement, and this is
already affecting sales of
fertilisers in some areas. It
will be reflected in the profits
of some fertiliser and chemical
companies, and various hold-
ing-companies (including
mining cos.) along the line.
Various sections of the Aus-
tralian economy are bound to
suffer from the fall in prices
for land products during the
present year. On the other
hand, if import-restrictions are
tightened, there will be greater
scope for some of our manu-
facturing industries, even
though added protection may
in some cases be undesirable.
We are passing through a very
interesting stage of domestic
economic development as well
as world affairs.
Gillespie Bros. Holdings
A dditional information on
the conversion of N.S.W.
flourmiller Gillespie Bros. Pty.,
Ltd., into a public co. through
the sale of 99,437 stock-units
of 10s. each in Gillespie Bros.
Holdings, Ltd., at 12s. 9d. per
unit, shows that the asset-back-
ing of the stock-units is
particularly strong.
Without any upvaluation of
assets for the purpose of the
placement of the parcel of
stock-units, book-value of net
tangibles is 19s. 2d. per stock-
unit. Fixed assets are in at
original cost (£861,225), less
depreciation (£426,339), and
£434,886 net. Valuations show
that these figures are conserva-
tive. Net tangible backing for
shares in non-listed companies
and present market-value of
holdings in listed cos. is con-
siderably higher than their
book-value.
Average consolidated net
profit of the subsidiaries, after
adjusted tax, for the five sub-
sidiaries (B. 4/3/’59) up to
1958, represented 10.3 p.c. on
the £400,000 capital of the
present holding-co. (Three 10s.
shares in the holding-co. were
issued in exchange for each £1
share in Gillespie Bros. Pty.)
The average takes in the bad
year of 1956. Earnings for
1958 represented 19.9 p.c. on
the present capital.
These figures would only
include that part of the earn-
ings of Mowbray Pty. (Daffodil
margarine) as were distributed
in dividends to Gillespie Bros.
Pty., that co. owning one-third
of the shares, so that it does
not figure as a subsidiary. It
is likely that if a full third of
the earnings of Mowbray had
been included with consoli-
dated profits, last year’s figure
would have been much better.
The Daffodil margarine
venture has been a great
success, as indicated in the
figures of its two-thirds pro-
prietor, Allied Mills, Ltd.
Since last balance-day Gilles-
pie Bros. Pty. has acquired
controlling-interests in a num-
ber of bakeries, the b.-s. and
p.-and-l. figures of which arc
not included in the foregoing
summaries. Arrangements are
being made to raise £150,000
by debenture-loan from a life-
office to provide finance for
these and other extensions of
activity.
In common with other lead-
ing flourmillers, the co. has
followed a policy of diversi-
fication of activities, both
within the milling industry and
in allied and similar pursuits.
The policy is showing satis-
factory results.
The co. has tax-free income
reserves of £121,360, equal to
30.3 p.c. on its present capital.
Dividends of at least 8 p.c.
p.a. are expected to be paid,
and portion of these will come
from tax-free reserves.
ICIANZ 7 p.c. 15-yr. Notes
is being used
by Imperial Chemicals
Industries of Australia and
N.Z., Ltd., to provide increased
working-capital and to cover
the cost of expanding manu-
facturing facilities, including
greater output of polythene
and polythene film, and equip-
ment for bulk sea-transport of
soda-ash from Osborne (S.A.).
Unsecured notes to the tune
of £3 million are being issued,
carrying 7 p.c. and maturing
in 15 years. Holders of OFd.
shares, pref. shares and deben-
tures will have priority in


To Let
FURNISHED HOME
Furnished Home all modern con-
veniences for 6 montfhs. £l4/14/-
per week.
Commencing 2Gth May, 1959. Par-
ticulars on application to 57 Burton
Street, Linley Point, on Lane Cove
River, near Fig Tree Bridge,
N.S.W. Telephone, JB 3541.
If your money’s lying idle, I’d suggest you
put it on interest-bearing deposit with the
“Wales”. It couldn’t be safer and the
interest is quite good when you consider
the security you get. You can deposit
amounts from £5 upwards, for three
months, six months, a year, or two years
whichever is most convenient for you.
There’s no better short-term investment.
BANK OF NEW SOLTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
Over 1,000 branches and agencies throughout
Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New
Guinea, and three branches in London
YOU CAN BANK ON THE “WALES’*
A5909C
application for £1 million of
the notes for 14 days. Under-
writers are J. B. Were and
Son.
The issue carries an attrac-
tive rate. The term is rather
long compared with most issues
of unsecured notes, but with
such a large issue there is
bound to be a fairly active
open market in the securities.
The issue of unsecured notes
will lift the total of debenture
and note money to around
£lO million, against share-
holders’ funds in excess of
£25 million.
In these days that is a
modest proportion of debt-
finance in relation to share-
holders’ funds, but at the same
time it is high enough to indi-
cate one of the reasons for the
scrip-shortage which is helping
to elevate the price of equity
shares on the Stock Exchanges.
Announcement of the note-
issue was a disappointment to
ord.-shareholders in ICIANZ,
who apparently had been bank-
ing on another issue of shares,
and there was evidence of this
in a fall in quotations.
R. B. Davies and Yorkshire
TTnless R. B. Davies Indus-
tries, Ltd., largest maker
of builder’s hardware in the
Southern Hemisphere, is in
immediate need of the money
for other purposes it is hard
to understand why it has sold
its 147,000 £1 ord. shares
(originally a 49 p.c. holding) in
Yorkshire Fittings (Aust.) Pty.,
Ltd., at 375. 6d. a share.
This investment, which is
already paying a higher divi-
dend (10 p.c.) than R. B.
Davies (8 p.c.), is a post-war
venture, and has all the ear-
marks of a potential money-
spinner. It will now be owned
entirely by Yorkshire Imperial
Metals, Ltd., of England, which
developed the patent for capil-
lary jointing (by soldering) of
copper and brass piping, thus
avoiding a threaded joint and
enabling a lighter-gauge pipe
or tube to be used. It also
simplifies plumbing.
R. B. Davies will get
£275,625 from the sale. It will
repurchase for £50,000 the
factory property adjoining
R. B. Davies’ Marrickville
works which it sold to York-
shire at the beginning for the
same amount. Yorkshire will
lease the property for another
four years.
In its last directors’ report
R. B. Davies Industries said
that although Yorkshire
Fittings was expanding and
needing more funds, R.B.D.
was not taking-up more fixed
capital, but was putting-back
its dividends as a loan.
R. B. Davies, after early
promise, has been a disap-
pointing investment over the
past few years. About the
time of the Yorkshire tie-up
its shares went to 455. Last
year they sold down to 17s. 6d.
Recently the scrip has
recovered to 21s. 6d.
The Survival of Australian
Shipping
[From “Lookout”]
several National (Govern-
ment) Line ships are idle
and two more inter-State
passenger-ships will be per-
manently withdrawn. The
decline of Australia’s maritime
industry continues.
It was a different story two
years ago, when the Suez
crisis created inflated freight-
rates, and all classes of ships
were in strong demand. Before
the Canal was closed ship-
building had been overtaking
the shortages due to war-time
losses and post-war fleet-
replacement. It was the longer
voyages round the Cape that
brought reprieve to many of
the war-built steamers—ships
that were now past their eco-
nomic usefulness.
Many of the National Line’s
ships are steamers, some of
them built during the war.
Two years ago they were taken
over by the Coastal Shipping
Commission to be operated
competitively against privately-
owned coastal ships. Circum-
stances favored the Shipping
Commission. High overseas
freight-rates permitted the ex-
pensively operated ships to
show a profit on voyages to the
Far East and back. There was
full employment for crews,
and the Shipping Commission
venture promised to be an out-
standing success.
Then the Suez Canal was
reopened. The shipbuilding
industry, stepped-up to meet
the crisis-inspired demand,
was sending enough ships down
their slipways to enable the
shorter voyages to be made at
drastically competitive freight-
rates. Not only were the war-
built ships uneconomic;
modern ships were also laid-up.
The National Line motorships
were unable to compete; their
steamers were right out of the
race.
Another of the Coastal Ship-
ping Commission’s intentions
had been to encourage fleet-
replacement by coastal ship-
owners who had previously
been reluctant to build in
opposition to the Shipping
Board’s subsidised programme,
When the overseas-trading
National Line ships came back
on the coastal runs new
privately-owned ships were
lifting such coastwise general
cargoes not filched by road
transport. They were ships
specially designed for the
various trades,
Bulk cargoes were all that
were left for National Line
vessels. And the increasing
number and size of new bulk-
carriers being built for the
National Line meant that their
older ships had to be laid-up.
Although originally estab-
lished to meet the war emer-
gency, the transfer of Govern-
ment-owned ships to private


NATIONAL MUTUAL
POLICYHOLDERS
will receive
TOTALLING
PREVIOUS YEAR £7,305,000
INCREASE 24%
Consult your
National Mutual Representative
for complete
LIFE
FIRE & ACCIDENT
INSURANCE SERVICE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
(Inc. in
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ownership had met with
vigorous opposition during the
post-war years. Thus fostered
as a political instrument, State-
employed shipping-men became
only too willing to accept the
fact that Government-owned
ships were not being run to
make profit. They gave in to
unreasonable union demands,
Manning scales, pay and con-
ditions aboard Australian
ships were without parallel,
Circumstances that did not
permit efficient or economic
operation.
One of the anomalies intro-
duced was overtime payments
for weekend work by crews at
sea. They were already being
■—and continued to be —given
weekly time-off for the same
purpose. Fixed overtime pay-
ments were also permitted
regardless of hours worked.
Recently businessmen were
surprised to learn that a
Swedish ship had been
chartered to take the Australian
trade-mission to the Far East.
But this was good business, for
it was estimated that an Aus-
tralian-manned and -operated
vessel would have cost £2OO a
day more!
Nevertheless the National
Line is said to be interested in
establishing a regular service
to the Far East in opposition to
the Scandinavian ships already
on the run. To succeed they
must obviously close this cost
margin.
With so many men already
“on the beach” it should be
obvious that for Australian
shipping to survive against
foreign as well as land-based
competition—it must be effi-
ciently operated. That is im-
possible under existing employ-
ment conditions.
Bowater Scott Australia
Oir Eric Bowater, chairman
of the Bowater Paper
Corp., Ltd., London, and
Thomas B. McCabe, president
of Scott Paper Company,
Chester, Pennsylvania (U.S.A.),
have announced the inaugura-
tion of a new joint enterprise
through Bowater-Scott Aus-
tralia Pty., Ltd., in which
Bowaters and Scotts will have
equal shareholdings.
The parent co. will con-
tinue to operate the business
now carried on by Bowaters
through its subsidiary, the
British-Australian Paper Co.
Pty., manufacturer of Sorbent
products, and it will proceed
immediately with the erection
of a tissue-papermaking plant
on a site near Melbourne
involving a capital-expenditure
of around £1,500,000.
The paper-mill and adjoining
conversion plant will be the
first fully integrated operation
of its kind in Australia.
Bowater’s are the largest
manufacturers of paper in the
U.K. and one of the largest
manufacturers of newsprint in
the world. They have had an
extensive paper business in
Australia for nearly 40 years,
and are large suppliers of
newsprint.
Scott Paper Company is the
leading producer of household
paper-products, and is already
associated with Bowaters in
England.


Below :
P. H. PLAYFAIR,
newly elected
Below:
H. C. M. SEE,
Agriculture
E. K. VICKERY,
leader of the R.A.S.-Shell pre-Show tour
Below :
A. McCORQUODALE,
Scholarships, Flournulling
Below :
N. E. WOODS,
Woodchopping
E. S. PLAYFAIR,
Deputy-President
H. G. WHIDDON,
Horticulture, Arts
and Crafts
E. K. BOWMAN,
a vice-president
SOME COUNCILLORS OF THE R.A.S. OF N.S.W.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Sydney Art
There are many compensa-
tions for the art-critic in Syd-
ney. One of them is to see
again the bronzes of the Archi -
bald Fountain glimmering green
and wet against the dark-green
oaks in the background ; and
another is to see, walking in
mid-air over the ground-floor
at David Jones’, a beautiful
brunette in black tights and
black nylon stockings—she
was, presumably, an angel.
There are also, of course,
the pictures; and if the “Recent
Paintings” by seven British
artists at the National Gallery,
being abstracts, are mostly
enormous pieces of nothing, at
least there is a feathery, decora-
tive charm in the group by
Bryan Wynter, a few moments
of murky force by Alan Davie,
one of whose most sinister
efforts is entitled “Green Egg,”
and some queer life in Merlyn
Evans’s bird-men, which lock
like some of the sculptures of
Henry Moore.
By contrast, being about
something, the “Australian
Contemporary Paintings”
recent acquisitions from the
various State galleries; now
also on display at the National
Gallery—are almost all com-
pensations : a fresh, vigorous
landscape by Phyl Waterhouse,
W. E. Pidgeon’s charming
“Miss Whitely,” a vivid if
confused Clifton Pugh, a
surrealist field of purple
poppies by Lawrence Daws,
some spotted and tumultous
tugboats by John Perceval,
flowers by Justin O’Brien, a
nice piece of simple color in
Guy Grey-Smith’s “Torbay,”
Louis James’s “Landscape with
Two Children,” etc.
More contemporaries and
more abstracts flowering at
David Jones’ in the Con-
temporary Art Society’s
autumn exhibition rather
deceive the eye. In the dis-
tance they all look pleasing;
close up. not many have much
to say. But among those that
do are a very jaunty abstract
called “The Sacrifice,” by
Thomas Gleghorn, a smoother
, one by Robert Juniper, a
brighter one by Robert Juniper
and a richer one by Bissietta ;
Judy Cassab’s “Kon-Tiki,”
which has a pleasant look of
shells or marble ; two draw-
ings by Imre Szigeti, Billie
Wallace’s “Man and Dragon”
and a curious painting of
kangaroo-men. called “Cor-
roboree,” by Oscar Edwards.
❖ ***
Gleghorns Among Short-
horns
It was a shock, on climbing
upstairs to the art-exhibitions,
to find that abstract and ex-
pressionist art had wormed its
way into Sydney Show: first-
prize in the industrial section,
the Sir Charles Lloyd Jones
Memorial, had gone to T.
Gleghorn’s “Industrial Har-
bor,” a code of dark, squared
planes. The key to it might
have been (for all one knew)
the more explicit maze of ropes
and wires by G. F. Lawrence,
“New Construction at Cir-
cular Quay.” Sali Herman’s
landscape with curious build-
ings was another refuge for
the practical mind ; also a
Broadhurst power-station, a
Baker cement-works and some
J. R. Jackson brick-quarries.
In the Rural (Rural Bank)
section, the diagrammatic
violence of C. Plate’s first-prize
“Stockyard” was not as
informative as F. Bates's im-
pressionist “Bulldogger and
Hazer”; nor was Gleghorn’s
second-prize “Harvest” (in
which, according to a tip from
a stable-connection, the yellow
blob in the centre is supposed
to be a loaf of bread) as effec-
tive as Mrs. S. Dockings
Cezannish “Road Through a
Bush Town.” H. Greenhill's
third - prize “Citrus Farm,”
darkly blocked-out on green,
came nearer to being like
something, but those who
remember what the country-
side used to look like before
abstract art might find con-
solation in G. F. Lawrence's
“Culburra,” G. R. Quartly’s
“Barossa Valley,” W. Salmon’s
“Scrub Encroachment,” J.
Eldershaw’s “Farm Lands,”
J. Alcott’s “Cairns Canefields,”
and a modest bit of green grass
by Mrs. W. Beamish, “Lark-
hill, Goulburn.”
A sad-faced countryman
paused to ask the title
of a painting; told it was
“Drought,” he shook his head
and said, “No, it’s not like
that”—but for most comers
(and the exhibition seemed
extremely popular) the abstracts
were a new delight, a kind of
chamber -of - horrors: What,
you could hear those patient,
amused voices asking them-
selves, will the city slickers try
to put over us next?
■£+
Clifton Pugh
Clifton Pugh’s exhibition at
the S.A. Society of Arts is one
of the best shows Adelaide
has seen for a long time.
Although a highly sophisticated
painter of considerable intelli-
gence, he has his feet on our
earth and his eyes on us and
the birds and flowers around
us. This sense of belonging is
.perhaps clearer than he
realises, for his chief fault is
to ram an idea home too hard.
Nevertheless, it is a pleasure
to look at the work of a painter
who can let fly some of the
violence of nature, not as a
parlor-trick picked-Up in Paris
but as something he really felt
himself.
From the evidence of the
four portraits in this show, his
next move should be to popu-
late the country of his paint-
ings with human-beings as well
as with wild animals and birds.
These superb portraits are
tackling the human face and
personality in different ways,
from the plainness of a statue
to the subtlety of a figure in a
landscape.
The modern figure-painter
has a tough proposition before
him, bereft of the gorgeous
robes, the sumptuous cere-
monies of religion and mytho-
logy that filled the canvases of
the Old Masters. Pugh’s por-
traits escape the twin traps of
dinginess and borrowed
plumage, and he has the tech-
nique to interpret both his
depth of feeling and his excite-
ment with his materials and
the use he is going to put
them to.
G. D.
❖ ❖ ♦>
John Perceval is in the
unusual position of having two
shows running in Melbourne at
one and the same time. His
new oils are hanging at the
Australian Galleries in Colling-
wood, and there is a retrospec-
tive collection of his drawings
at the Museum of Modern Art
in Flinders Street.
Generally speaking, there is
the same quality in his draw-
ings as in his paintings. He
flings himself at his subject-
matter with brush or pen and
sometimes hits and sometimes
misses, but is seldom dull and
often exciting. His sketches of
little children are delightful.
At least they don't suggest
that he has been looking at
somebody else's pictures.
Oscar Wilde said that if a
thing isn't worth doing badly
it isn't worth doing at all. This
is possibly the principle that
Perceval works on. There is
much more vitality in his
landscape than in his painted
figures.
* * #
Davud Moore, who started
as a professional
releaser in Sydney in 1947,
then left for London and in a
few short years was being given
fantastic assignments by lead-
ing journals, gives some reason
for his success in a show of
photos at the Museum of
Modern Art in Melbourne. He
has a flair for the dramatic and
the unusual angle, and when
he snaps the Queen, Khrush-
chev, Bulganin and others of
the mighty he often succeeds
in stripping them of their
majesty and showing them as
human-beings. A series of Lew
Hoad apparently considering a
lucrative offer to turn pro-
fessional is revealing.
Stage and Music
Alden Again
“A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” is a jolly play and a
pretty play ; and if John
Alden’s production at Sydney
Independent wasn’t nearly
pretty enough, it was excep-
tionally amusing.
Most of the players threw
most of the poetry cheerfully
out the window. Barry Lovett’s
otherwise excellent Puck
bounced so much that he could
hardly have been able to hear
himself speak ; the lovers
ranted and roared and bounced
so much you'd have thought
the play was about a pub in
Woolloomooloo, not a dream
in the woods of Athens. Surely,
if he is still going to be attrac-
tive Demetrius should rage at
Helena with some humor and
sympathy.
The ballet, though the small
girls had the charm of their
youth, didn’t do very much ;
and the two fairies who sang
the songs lost them in a thin
piping, most of which seemed


Before you finalise your plans...
see how much you can save with
the world’s strongest
roofing material
3
n
«•-
B
n
fl
f
% A
mr .1
"
& / *
l
n
1;
I
II
a
E 3
W: -
y
m
m m
.;: • ••:•:v ; :' : : : : Xv
oRa
-
4
ill
111
%
luA*
w.»
?0 1 MP!
■f
,7
illillllllll
. -
' 4 ' ?4f
y' 7, •. •?•?/•'..<'l
MR, • ;
|^IIliilli:;ll!i!!j
It’s the sheer strength of Lysaght Red Orb Steel
Sheet made specially strong for roofing purposes
that makes a Lysaght roof the most permanent and
economical of all. ■ It’s the logical way to bridge the
gap between your bank balance and the cost of that
new house.
Yet, with all its economy, this amazing roof lends
itself to the most dramatic and exciting designs. It’s
ideal for ail types of flat and low-pitched roofing...
goes up faster . . . lasts longer with a minimum of
maintenance. Ask for the facts and figures today !
Available in lengths from 5' to 12'; in I*, 3" and 5"
corrugations; and all wanted gauges.
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
Prepainted
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
Flat Galvanized
Steel Sheet.
SHEET
Free low-cost
home plans booklet!
Planning to build? You must have this helpful
booklet that gives full details of today’s newest
home plans. Write for YOUR copy I
GI67C
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., I
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your Home Plans Booklet.
NAME -
ADDRESS
STATE


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia: F. H. Egerton,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Manager for Australia.
to be coming from some
infernal machine under the
stage.
But out of all this ranting
and stamping, and out of a
great goodwill on the part of
the producer, came a remark-
ably lively and funny scene in
the woods. William Bain’s
admirable Oberon, aided by
Mavis Turner’s capable
Titania, restored a fair measure
of the poetry ; and except
that there is no need for Peter
Quince to look so cadaverous
—the mechanicals were a
genuinely amusing lot and
made a fine thing of the peri-
lous performance of “Pyramus
and Thisbe.” Alan Harvey’s
Thisbe was outstanding.
On the first night (the part
is also to be done by Kevin
Brennan and Dennis Glenny)
John Alden himself played
Bottom, and, though he lost
track of his English rustic
accent every now and again,
did it most robustly and like-
ably. If his Titus Andronicus
was a bit like his Lear, this time
he fully displayed his versa-
tility—as also, of course, his
invaluable services to the town
in putting these plays on.
+> ♦♦♦
Firkusny and Heinze
In many ways the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra’s first
concert of the 1959 subscrip-
tion series was quite an event.
You might consider Sir
Sir Bernard Heinze a master
of urbanity, but he certainly
had his hands full in the
Shostakovich Symphony No.
11 in G Minor (first Australian
performance): not much room
here for delicately contrived
gestures or subtle innuendos.
This is a very powerful work ;
its climaxes are shattering, and
there is a marvellous fugal
section near the end of the
second movement which
blossoms to savage double-
forte fruition. Maybe the last
movement is too long, so that
earlier climaxes are over-
shadowed. But the symphony
is an important addition to
orchestral repertoire.
After interval two pieces by
Purcell (a masterful contrast):
the “Faery Queen” overture
and the Fantasia Upon One
Note. In the overture, with its
liberal repeat-sections, there
was crackling trumpet-playing ;
the Fantasia, despite the size
of the orchestra —surely some
of the strings could have had
a rest? —was neatly done, with
the recurrent middle-C making
a shaded appearance at the
end.
Rudolf Firkusny, soloist in
the Beethoven Concerto No.
3 in C Minor, Op. 37, made
it pretty clear from the open-
ing bars that he’s not a Beet-
hoven man. He lacks breadth ;
and all his graceful precision
just doesn’t compensate. Judg-
ing by his playing always
assured and neat, but with
never a burst of Beethovenian
snarling —he is more a
romantic than a classical
pianist.
For all that, his entry in the
largo, where the piano seems
to be poised on the edge of a
precipice before the dotted
note in the theme moves to the
succeeding chord, was beauti-
fully managed. And it was
good to see Sir Bernard, after
his physical excesses in the
Shostakovich, relax into his
familiar urbane style.
“Music for the People”
Following on the gigantic
meetings of the devotees of Billy
Graham, the small crowd of
devoted music-lovers which
easily fitted into Melbourne’s
Myer Music Bowl for a “Music
for the People” session made a
poor show; but the music
didn’t.
The afternoon was exclusively
devoted to Australian com-
positions, and though most of
them were light, all of them
showed feeling. J. P. McCall’s
“Boots”; Dr. Percy Jones’s
“Aran Lullaby,” sung with just
the right intonation by
Muriel Luyk ; Linda Phillips’s
“Droving Song” and W. G.
James’s “Song of the Stock-
rider” were bright and tuneful,
and Arthur Benjamin’s Over-
ture to an Italian Comedy was
full of gay excitement.
Shirley Radford, pianist,
brought out the note of febrile
ecstasy in the Alamein Concerto
of Albert Arlen, and the Aus-
tralian Symphony Orchestra,
directed by the ebullient Hector
Crawford, whipped through
Benjamin’s “Jamaican Rhumba”
and conveyed the color of
Alfred Hill’s “The Moon’s
Gold Horn.” “Saturday Girl,”
from the opera “Lola Montez,”
was none the worse for being
definitely music for the people.
“Gat on a Hot Tin Roof”
Whatever faults of excess
may be charged against
Tennessee Williams thread-
bare symbolism, revolving
patterns of language the
theatrical effectiveness of “Cat
on a Hot Tin Roof” could not
be doubted in Brisbane Arts
Theatre’s opening presentation
for the year.
As a play it is far too raw,
but it has the merit of a vigor
not to be found in many of its
English-born contemporaries.
Synge, that wisest of Irish
playwrights, spoke of a
brutality needed to revitalise
art. Perhaps Williams may be
justified in this way, but he
should realise that playing with
all stops out for an entire
programme does tend to be-
come either monotonous or
ridiculous.
One longed for a normal
character in the household, if
only as a base on which to
assess the extravagances of the
others—Big Daddy, crumbling
with fear and cancer; Big
Mama, unloved by her hus-
band ; Brick, the idolised son
unable to forget a past hero-
worship even in the midst of
his marriage; Gooper, his
jealous brother ; and —thrown
into this household by marriage
to the weakling—Maggie, “the
Cat.”
Perhaps the gentleness that
has characterised Rosalind
Seagrove’s work in the past
smoothed some of the chiselling
of the author’s “Maggie,” but
apart from an occasional lapse
from American accent she
sustained a genuine character
throughout. In one perform-
ance Bryon Williams climbs up
the short list of capable male
actors in Brisbane. Script-
hampered by a leg in plaster—
and worse, a perpetual whisky-
glass—he built-up some strange
charm and made credible the
vast love that the other charac-
ters lavished on him.
Jack Hollingworth’s produc-
tion had the ease of movement
which is essential to such a
play.
VAL VALLIS.
Films
“Empire of the Sun”
A CinemaScopic journey
through obscure parts of Peru,
with frequent pauses to look
at the people. The Andes
natives are exceedingly color-
ful, religious and thrifty ; but
even in the middle of a whirl-
ing feast-day dance their faces
rarely change from an
apparently ingrained expression
of gloominess.
There is charm in the moun-
tain woman’s visit to Lima ;
interest in the guano-island
sequence, with millions of birds
taking to the air as the native
pick-and-shovel boys move in ;
faint improbability in the
Indian childbirth scene, where
the father acts-out the anguish
of labor-pains to distract evil
spirits, later receiving con-
gratulations and gifts while his
wife, overlooked, cuts fire-
wood ; splendor in the moun-
tain scenery, and particular
vividness when an Indian boy,
to win his girl, has to capture
a condor with his bare hands.
Continuity is a trifle jerky,
some episodes being broken off
and left hanging among
questions ; and the soundtrack
music is overblown and over-
loud ; but generally the spirit
and flavor of life in this region
is feelingly suggested.
At Sydney Esquire.
*> ♦> ♦>
Antarctic Film
Titled “Antarctic Crossing,”
this color-film, sponsored by
British Petroleum, Ltd., traces
the Hillary-Fuchs expedition
from 1955 to 1958. It will not
be shown commercially in
Sydney, but there will be
screenings at the M.L.C.
Theatrette, North Sydney, on
April 7 and April 14.
It is a clear and absorbing
account; there are shots from
the original film of the Scott-
Shackleton expedition; fasci-
nating scenes of the main
crossing - party's headquarters,
including the digging of a
winter “bed” for an aeroplane.
The film runs just under an
hour, and although one would
have liked to learn more about
the mountain in which “traces
of tropical vegetation” are
embedded and what scientists
find by studying snowflakes the
story is on the whole fully and
cogently covered.


Telegraphic and Cable address; “Brownbtlls.”
Telephone: B\V 1165 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax’'’ Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: 8W1571 —BIV 8088
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
The year to September 30 last was a
particularly juicy one for the big
Herald and Weekly Times group, and
if the impact of television, in which the
group has a large stake, trimmed the
circulation of some publications, the
overall showing certainly didn’t suffer
to any noticeable extent.
The parent co.’s revenue from trading
and investments grew by £1.5 million to
£14.1 million, while, having swallowed
the “Argus” in the preceding year, and,
it seems, digested this erstwhile com-
petitor without any traces of heartburn
(within the H. and W.T. organisation,
that is), the group as a whole went on to
hoist net earnings by over 43 p.c. and
show a return on ord. capital of 47.7
p.c.
Ord. shareholders’ slice of the record
profit was increased from 20 p.c. to 22i
p.c. on their holdings, the richer payout
being followed by a one-for-two bonus-
issue early in the current term.
With a touch of restraint, absent,
occasionally, from the columns of some
Australian dailies, chairman H. D. Giddy
reported to the annual meeting that “the
year’s profit return must be regarded as
satisfactory.” This opinion was shared,
no doubt, by the vendors of the Argus
and Australasian, Ltd., who collected
£78,750 in divs. on the £350,000 of special
ords. issued in exchange for their “Argus”
holdings.
Although the 118-year-old Melbourne
“Herald” and its companion, the “Sun
News - Pictorial,” form the nucleus
around which the H. and W.T. organisa-
tion has developed, the group’s interests
and influence are by no means confined
to Victoria. The largest publishing-
house in the country, H. and W.T. is a
principal shareholder in Australian
Newsprint Mills Holdings, Ltd. (which
manufactures around 30 p.c. of Aus-
tralian newsprint requirements), Queens-
land Press, Ltd. (which has a monopoly
of Brisbane dailies), and Advertiser
Newspapers, Ltd. (publisher of the
Adelaide “Advertiser”). Victorian
interests include the Herald Gravure
printery, two radio-stations and an 85
p.c. shareholding in Herald-Sun TV Pty.,
which operates one of Melbourne’s two
commercial TV-stations. Apart from the
dailies, the group produces “Weekly
Times,” “Sporting Globe,” “Listener
In —TV,” “Home Beautiful,” “Aircraft,”
“Australasian Post” and “Your Garden.”
Melbourne’s only evening paper, the
“Herald,” at 3d., is the lowest-priced
of all major dailies in Australia.
Financed by a revaluation of “part of
the [parent] co.’s real estate” and
£896,000 from share - premium reserve,
the one-for-two bonus-issue, along with
a small issue to staff-members, raised ord.
capita] to £3,804,361. Of the £400,000
of pref. money, £125,000 carries a cumu-
lative 6y p.c. and the balance 6 p.c.
The board hopes to service the
increased capital “at rates which will
prove to be satisfactory,” a 5 5/6 p.c.
interim div. (61 p.c. in 1958) going out
next month. As last term’s showing, after
deducting pref. divs., was equal to 30.5
p.c. on the higher equity capital, the co.
would need to do no more than maintain
earnings in the current term to cover a
20 p.c. distribution with ease, even after
allowing for the usual transfer to plant-
replacement reserve. Held at 20 p.c. for
the four years up to, and including, 1957,
the div.-rate hasn’t dropped below 14 p.c.
for over 20 years.
At the current price of around 275. 3d.
(compared with the pre-bonus 28s. 3d.
of a year ago) the ss. ords. would return
£3 13s. sd. p.c. from a 20 p.c. payout or
£3 4s. 3d. p.c. should the board decide on
a 171 p.c. distribution. Earnings-yield
on last term’s profit would be a rather
slim 5.6 p.c.
There was another slight drop in the
circulation of the “Herald” over the year
to September 30 last, but after jumping
by almost 100,000 copies in 1957 on the
closing-down of the “Argus,” the “Sun”
circulation-figures put on a little more
weight, average daily net sales for the
second half of the term rising by 7278 to
555,439 copies. More important,
especially in view of the growth of TV-
advertising, was the fact that the two
papers carried nearly 16 p.c. more display-
advertising to set a record figure of close
to 2,000,000 in. “Increased advertising
support” is also claimed for the parent
co.’s other publications.
Although newsprint prices fell towards
the close of the term, 44.6 p.c. of the
parent co.’s record revenue went on
“printing-paper,” as against 43.1 p.c. (of
a smaller figure) in the preceding term.
However, this increase was more than
offset by a fall, from 52 p.c. to 49.6 p.c.,
in the proportion - taken by wages,
expenses, taxation, etc. Herald-Sun TV
appears to have finished up in front,
while the radio interests, which have
weathered the TV-boom quite success-
fully, made “substantial” contributions
to the year’s earnings. A 10 p.c. div. from
Queensland Press absorbed less than half
of that co.’s earnings, a well-covered
13| p.c. div. coming from Advertiser
Newspapers.
One of the sweetest plums to drop
into the co.’s iap was a capital-return,
of 15s. a 20s. share, made by Australian
Newsprint Mills. This return, which,
with a 25 p.c. div. equalled the whole of
the investment in A.N.M., was worth
around £560,000 to H. and W.T. and
preceded what was, in effect, a three-for-
one bonus - issue on the formation- of
A.N.M. Holdings.
All told, group earnings rose by
£361,059 to £1,186,950, and, while income
from investments (£446,560) accounted
for £202,728 of this increase, the tax
provision (up £121,500 at £610,000) was
appropriate to a tax-paid trading profit
of over £1,000,000: —
Parent and Subsidiaries.
—* Dividends
r Pref. ——Re-
Sept., Prolit. (it p.c. 6 p.c. , —Ordinary--, senes.*
£ £ £ p.c. £ £
Tax overprovided, £7854 .. .. 1,471,750
Share premiums, £499,129 .. .. 1,970,879
Added reserves, £53,974 .. .. 2,024,853
Less added intangibles, £566,453 .. 1,458,400
1954. .504,710 8125 16,500 20 =321,333 1,617,152
Tax overprovided, £1375 .. . ■ 1,618,527
Share premiums, £871 .. .. 1,619,398
Add reduction intangibles, £338,750.. 1,958,148
1955. .845,108 8125 16,500 20 =407,471 2,371,160
Adjustment minority interest, £21,436 2,392,596
Tax overprovided, £4909 .. .. 2,397,505
Sale of shares to Queensland Press,
Ltd., profit £139,619 .. . . 2,537,124
Establishment exp., TV co., £38,807 2,498,317
Increase in intangibles, £267,091 . . 2,231,226
1956. .885,961 8125 16,500 20 =417,234 2,675,328
Tax overprovided, £6233 .. . . 2,681,561
Unexplained additions (net), £151,269 2,832,830
Surplus, Argus net tangibles over par
value of scrip issued as considera-
tion, £945,329 .. .. ..3,778,159
Reduction intangibles, £481,043 . . 4,259,202
1957. .825,891 8125 16,500 20 =465,385 4,595,083
Tax overprovided, £2942 .... .. 4,598,025
Unexplained reduction £591,440 . . 4,006,585
1958 1,186,950 8125 16,500 224 =548,154 4,620,756
* After deducting intangibles, £302,558 at
September 30, 1958.
A further £250,000 was earmarked for
plant-replacement, but Internal adjust-
ments and realisation of certain “Argus”
assets reduced the surplus on consolida-
tion by £443,952, the increase in net
reserves being limited to £25,673.
Proceeds from the sale of surplus
fixed-assets, reductions in stock (down
£417,928) and book - debts (down
£236,706) and the capital-return by
A.N.M. (written-off the book-value of
the investment) eliminated a £766,482
overdraft and sent holdings of cash soar-
ing from £6945 to £1,171,813. On top
of this, the co. stands to collect approxi-
mately £750,000 in cash from its current
public placement of 535,000 £1 ords. in
A.N.M. Holdings at 28s. 6d. Plant-
extensions and renewals may soak-up
part of the big swag of cash, but the


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. F. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, R. A. McINNES, N. W. C. DRAPER
{Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 (4 Fines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
board has given no answer to the intrigu-
ing question of just what it plans to do
with the balance:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord. .. 2,086,241 2,436,241 2,436,241
Reserves . . 2,981,429 4,222,641 3,998,314
Plant replace-
ment . . 477,500 675,000 925,000
Outside interests 1,410,775 412,138 112,850
Notes, mortgage 1,460,625 1,350,000 1,250,000
Overdraft . . 181,516 766,482
Creditors, etc. 2,543,062 1,958,838 2,209,084
Inter-co. balances 185,871
Final div. .. 290,478 350,897 398,051
£11,831,626 £12,758,108 £11,729,540
Freehold property,
etc., .. 2,164,386 1,749,204 1,798,116
Plant, etc. .. 2,628,426 2,818,647 1,790,537
Shares, etc. ~ 832,170 1,764,763 1,198,214
Stock .. .. 3,132,346 3,425,331 3,007,403
Debtors .. 2,283,402 2,690,660 2,453,954
Cash. etc. .. 7,295 6,945 1,178,758
Intangibles .. 783,601 302,558 302,558
£11,831,626 £12,758,108 £11,729,540
At September 30 last the group admitted
to £4,620,756 of reserves (including
£925,000 for plant-replacement), and,
even ignoring fixed assets (then shown
“at cost less provisions”), the difference
at balance-date between the book- and
par-values of scrip in A.N.M- would have
contributed over £2,750,000 to unacknow-
ledged reserves.
Malleys, Ltd.
Interested in most aspects of sheet-
metal engineering, Malleys, Ltd., has
steadily expanded its activities in the
domestic-appliance field over the last six
or seven years, and, last October, added
refrigerators to an already extensive
range of products through the absorption
of Colda Home Appliances, Ltd.
Shortly after the deal, which involved
the issue of 163,928 £1 ords. at a total
premium of £81,964, Malleys raised
£500,000 on 8 p.c. notes to provide the
working-capital needed to develop the
Colda organisation.
Apart from a sharp decline in the 1953
and 1954 terms, Malleys’ earnings have
responded in a quite satisfactory fashion
to the introduction of new lines and fresh
capital, the earning-rate on ord. capital
averaging 19.2 p.c. over the three years
to June 30 last, compared with an average
of a little under 16' p.c. over the three
years preceding a one-for-two bonus-
issue in the 1952 term.
Scrip to a par-value of £75,472 was
also issued in the 1952 term in exchange
for manufacturing - concerns in Mel-
bourne and Sydney, a one-for-four par
issue in 1955 and the Colda purchase
raising ord. capital to £1,068,641. Another
£30,000 of pref. capital carries a cumu-
lative 9 p.c.
The ord. div.-rate was dropped from
10 p.c. to 8 p.c. after the bonus-issue,
the 10 p.c. rate being restored in 1956.
In addition to the manufacture of
sheet - metal products for the plumbing
and building trades (around which the
business was founded in 1884), the
co. now turns-out ventilation-equipment,
washing-machines, refrigerators, electric
stoves, wash - boilers, kerosene room-
heaters, domestic cisterns, porcelain-
enamel baths, bath-heaters and numerous
other lines fabricated, mainly from sheet-
metal. Two large factories are owned
in Sydney and there are branches in
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide.
An increase in sales (to an undisclosed
figure) was reported for the year to June
30 last, and, although movements in
stock and debtors suggest some slackness
in trade towards the end of the term,
net profit edged forward by £2409 to
£179,972: —
,—* Dividends >,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.e. Ordinaries. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Share premiums, £3654 .. .. 300,534
Capital profit, £533 .. .. .. 301,067
1953.. 63.078 2,400 8 p.c. = 57,028 3,650 304,717
Reserves disappear, £4460 .. .. 300,257
1954.. 42.247 2,700 8 p.c. = 57,028 — 282,776
To bad debts reserve, £7908 .. .. 274,868
Capital loss, £6516 .. .. .. 268,352
1955 128,596 2,700 8 p.c. = 63,933 61,963 330,315
Share-issue exes., £4524 .. .. 325,791
Capital profit, £1427 .. .. .. 327,218
1956 173,012 2,700 10 p.c. = 90,471 79,841 407,059
Written-off subsidiary assets, £17,550 3S9,509
1957 177,563 2,700 10 p.e. = 90,472 84,391 473,900
1958 179,972 2,700 10 p.c. = 90,472 86,800 560,700
* After deducting intangibles, £22,682 at 30/6/'58.
The higher figure was claimed after
making a much larger provision for
depreciation (up £26,348 at £56,132) but,
as the co. keeps its tax-provision to itself
and reckoned profit in the previous term
before the lower rates of co.-taxation
were announced, the extent to which tax-
concessions contributed to the gain isn’t
clear from the accounts.
Last term’s profit would have covered
a full year’s interest on the notes (after
allowing for tax), the pref. div. and over
14 p.c. on the enlarged ord. capital. An
interim div., steady at 5 p.c., is payable
at the end of this month.
Close to £120,000 went into fixed-
assets (mainly plant) during the term,
and, while depreciation and retained earn-
ings exceeded the capital - outlay by
approximately £23,000, the co. had to
go to the bank for an additional £75,542
to help carry an extra £105,843 of stocks.
With a drop in creditors, tax-provision,
etc. (down £10,976), and book - debts
(down £19,008), these movements left
working - capital £22,734 stronger (at
£601,899), but in a somewhat less liquid
form: —
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £934,713 £934,713 £934,713
Reserves .. 429,742' 496,582 583,382
Mortgages .. 48,809 47,200 45,000
Overdraft .. 226,911 313,367 388,909
Creditors, etc.* . . 377,190 320,270 309,294
Final divs. .. 90,471 45,236 45,236
£2,107,827 £2,157,368 £2,307,134
Freholds, etc. . . 302,246 416.814 422,279
Plant, etc. . . 316,558 459,834 516,835
Shareholdings .. 180,302 — —
Stocks .. .. 692,164 693,522 799.365
Book debt* .. 592,601 562,808 543,800
Cash, etc. .. 1,274 1,708 2,173
Intangibles .. 22,682 22,682 22,682
£2,107,827 £2,157,368 £2,307,134
* Includes provision for taxation.
Well equipped with fixed - assets, the
Colda Co. appears to have been in a
rather tight financial position prior to
absorption and a large proportion of
the note-money raised in the current
term will, no doubt, go into the re-
frigerator side of the business. The board
expects that “virtually all” of the new
funds will be used to finance stocks and
book-debts.
The market for refrigerators and wash-
ing-machines has strengthened over the
last six months, and, while the co.’s
earnings are likely to remain sensitive
to conditions in the building-trade, the
immediate outlook is reasonably en-
couraging.
At 31s. the £1 ords. would return
£6 9s. p.c. from a 10 p.c. div., the scrip
enjoying a net tangible backing of
325. 4d. at June 30 last.
Australian General Insurance
A lthough the current, one-for-five
issue by Australian General In-
surance Co., Ltd., is the second offering
in 12 months, the attractions of scrip
in a well-established and successful
accident-office and the co.’s relatively
small share-capital seem likely to keep
bids for the “rights” close to last week’s
price of 355. However, if the new issue
has failed to provide bargain - hunters
with a cheap means of entry into the
co., it has, at least, brought a few more
sellers into the market than did the one-
for-four issue in 1958.
The receipt of application-money—lss.
a 20s. share, due on the first of next
month-will give A.G.I. a paid capital
of £225,000, all in 15s. contribs. The
new scrip will rank equally with the
“old” for divs., purchase through the
rights at 355. giving a return of £3 15s.
p.c. from a p.c. distribution. Buyers
were offering 495. for the old shares at
the end of last week, sellers asking 51s. 7
Since a call of ss. a share in 1954
the board has preferred to issue new
scrip rather than reduce the liability on
existing shares, uncalled capital being
labelled as an “uncalled reserve” in the
accounts.
Originally a protege of the Mercantile
Mutual, the A.G.I. has been writing fire,
marine and accident business for 45
years. Confining itself to Australian
territory, a policy which would have
paid-off in the last couple of years, the
co. has doubled its net premium income
since 1951 and last term (to December
31) collected gross premiums of £982,245
(up £114,731). Reinsurances left net
premiums £74,464 higher at £700,576: —•
Net Pre- ' Loss Exes.
Dec., miums. Claims. Exes. Ratio, Ratio,
£ £ £ p.c. p.c.
1954 .. 475,081 236.837 194,044 49.8 40.8
1955 . . 542,893 287,659 206,544 53.0 38.0
1956 .. 553,688 327,6.58 206,042 59.1 37.3
1957 .. 626,112 358,846 222,605 57.3 35.5
1958 . . 700,576 390,945 250,164 55.8 35.7
Fire claims were heavier and, as has
been the case with most accident offices


Coptdutft
AUSTRALIAN
LIFE ASSI
DIRECTORS: •«=-
E. W. Robinson (C’man)
Col. R. S. Goward ; C.B.E.
P. H. Phillips
T. Keith Smith
C. W. Rothe
S. J. Gandon
General Manager:
W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc.,
F.
General Secretary:
George Leslie, F.C.1.5.,
A.A.S.A.
HUNTER AND BLIGH
STREETS
SYDNEY
GOLD AND PAPER
A History of The National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
By
GEOFFREY BLAINEY
42/*, Postage 1/6.
A vivid story of the rise of a great Australian bank, born in
the turbulent gold-rush days, surviving internal strife and nation-
wide panic to become one of the most vigorous banks of the
pioneering days and one of the largest banks of the modern age.
“Richly documented and finely produced . , . deserves a warm
welcome, not only from bankers but by everyone interested in the
history of our country.” “THE AGE” ( Melbourne ).
459 Pages, 47 Plates, Including 4 in Color and 4 Maps
and Charts.
Obtainable from all booksellers
Published by
GEORGIAN HOUSE Pty. Ltd.
296 BEACONSFIELD PARADE, MIDDLE PARK, 5.C.6.,
VICTORIA.
for some time, there was little
profit in either motor-vehicle
or workers’ - compensation
business. Nevertheless, pre-
miums grew at a faster rate
than claims, and while the
greater volyme of business was
partly responsible for a small
(4s. p.c.) increase in the
expense-rate, the loss-rate fell
by 30s. p.c.
The co. was thus able to
show an underwriting-surplus
£2306 stronger at £16,967,
despite the extra £12,500
(£42,500) sent to reserve for un-
expired risks, which, at
£300,000, represented an ade-
quate 42.8 p.c. of net premiums.
Investment income spurted
ahead by £5887 (to £31,916),
taking net profit from all
sources to £48,883, an improve-
ment of £8193, or 20 p.c., on
the previous term’s effort:
Re-
Dec., Profit. / Dividend •, serves.
£ £ £
To unexpired risks, £ll,OOO 350,372
’53.. 36,201 121 p.c. = 12,500 374,073
To unexpired risks, £20,000 394,073
’54.. 43,430 121 p.c. = 17,187 420,316
To unexpired risks, £28,000 448,316
’55. . 43,996 121 P-c. = 18,750 473,532
To unexpired risks, £4500 478,032
’56..40,364 121 p.c. = 18,750 499,646
To unexpired risks. £30,000 529,646
Profit sale freeholds, £647 530,293
’57. . 40,690 121 P-c. = 18,750 552,233
To unexpired risks, £42.500 594,733
’58.. 48,883 121 p.c. = 22,266 621,350
On average share-capital, the
underwriting-surplus was equal
to 9.5 p.c. and investment
income to 17.9 p.c., the record
net profit representing 27.4
p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 27.1 p.c. on the
lower figure employed in the
preceding term and 26.9, 29.3
and 28.9 p.c. in the three years
back to 1954. The 12y p.c.
div. was the twelfth successive
payout on this scale.
In common with many other
soundly-financed offices, the co.
regards investment income as
the main source of dividends,
leaving the underwriting-
surplus to strengthen reserves
and future investment income,
as well as shareholders’ chances
of seeing a lift in the div.-rate,
or other benefits. Maintenance
of the div.-rate on the increased
capital is unlikely to call for
any change in this policy, last
term’s investriient income
covering a full year’s p.c.
on the higher capital with
£3791 to spare.
Changes in the investment-
pattern, as w.ell as the increase
in funds, help to explain the
more than 50 p.c. improvement
in investment income over the
last four years, shares in other
cos. rising from 22.5 p.c. to
32.3 p.c. of total assets during
that period and debentures,
etc., from 2.1 p.c. to 6.9 p.c.
A further £96,540 was put into
shares and £39,801 into deben-
tures last term, freeholds
having been disposed-of in the
previous year to release funds
for more profitable forms of
investment.
However, a big wad of
Commonwealth bonds (shown
at less than face-value) was
still the largest item on the
asset side of the balance-sheet
at December 31, a solid
£621,350 of reserves reflecting
the high degree of security
enjoyed by both policyholders
and shareholders: —
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £150,000 £187,500
Reserves .. 552,233 021,350
Liabilities .. 267,501 316,087
Tax reserve .. 30,750 37,500
Final div. .. ' 9,375 11,719
£1,009,859 £1,174,156
Mortgages .. 35,165 29,375
Debentures* .. 41,218 81,019
Shares other cos. 326,645 423,185
Govt, securities.. 525,000 525,000
Book debts .. 58,775 90,087
Cash, etc. .. 23,056 25,490
£1,009,859 £1,174,156
* Includes fixed deposits.
Including scrip to be issued
next month, there was 56s. 5d.
in net tangibles at balance-
date for every 15s. contrib.
W. T. Coggins Holdings
Tpms is just about the dearest
motor stock offering on
the Sydney ’Change today —
16s. for a 5s. share, returning a
4.7 yield from the 15 p.c. (up
5 p.c.) sanctioned last year.
Even so, the end of the road
doesn’t seem to be in sight yet.
The shares have firmed
steadily, from 10s. in 1957 and
12s. 3d. about 12 months ago.
Earnings-yield is still a solid
19.3 p.c. on latest figures, and
the net tangible cover as at
June 30 last—16s. lid.—has
probably been well exceeded
by now.
Graduation to public status
came in 1954, and since that
time the house of Coggins has
been a tearaway. Thus far
the board hasn’t exactly
showered shareholders with
benefits, but by the aspect of
latest accounts they’re due to
discharge something better
than the current divvy at any
tick of the clock: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
£ £ £
Paid capital.. 160.000 160,000 160,000
Reserves .. 251,453 306,118 380,801
Mortgage .. 80,000 76,000 72,000
Creditors, un-
earned in-
come .. 109,484 87,151 116,615
Tax provision 53,034 51,407 61,399
Final dividend 8,000 ~8,000 16,000
661,971 688,676 806,815
Land, & build-
buildings.. 246,541 276,895 282,071
Plant, vehicles,
etc. .. 56,125 69,283 80,442
Investments .. — — 50,000
Stocks . . 139,670 113,625 164,663
Debtors, prepay-
ments, cash 93,794 102,008 119.955
Trading-bank. 125,841 126,S65 109,684
661,971 688,676 806,315
Current assets of £444,302 to
cope with current liabilities of
£l94,ol4—that’s all right. The
only other comment called for
is in regard to the mortgage
item on the one side and the
trading-bank balance on the
other, a rather odd juxtaposi-
tion. There seems still to be
an unconscionable amount of
ready cash lying supine in the
bank, although during the year
£50,000 was invested in
General Motors Acceptance’s
unsecured notes.
Coggins owes much of its
present opulence to the magic
name G f Holden ; but it also
has the handy Bedford fran-
chise with which it started out
jn , 93J It js one of the four
major Holden distributors in
J _ , . ...
,he S >' dM y area -
With a present yearly out-
put of 110,000 units, the
Holden range holds sway over
more than 40 p.c. of the market
for new cars, and there is


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
{lncorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED
LOAN STOCK
With principal and interest unconditionally guaranteed
by General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York
6*
7
%
per annum
per annum .
. . . . 3 YEARS
. 6 and 10 YEARS
£lOO or any multiple thereof may be invested in any or all of the currencies—
-3 years, 6 years, 10 years. GMAC, Australia; has the right to repay earlier.
Conditions of repayment, including premiums, are set out in the prospectus.
Registers of holders of the Loan Stock will be kept in Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide and Perth.
We report that, in our opinion, as at December 31, 1958 Total paid up
Capital and earned surplus of General Motors Acceptance Corporation,
Australia was 3,356,258 dollars and total tangible assets were 47,120,747
dollars. Furthermore, in our opinion, as at December 31, 1958 total Notes,
Loans and Debentures payable by General Motors Acceptance Corporation,
New York amounted to 3,221,688,114 dollars. Its other liabilities amounted
to 364,439,909 dollars and its total tangible assets were 3,881,283,432 dollars.
Melbourne, February 9, 1959. Signed Haskins & Sells, Auditors.
HOW TO APPLY
Applications for Loan Stock can be accepted only on the printed form attached to
the prospectus. Copies of full prospectus with application form obtainable from:
BRANCHES OF COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
Underwritten by the
ANGLO AUSTRALIAN CORPORATION Ply. Ltd.,
Melbourne. Sydney.
Brokers to the Issue
lAN POTTER & CO.
Melbourne , Sydney, Canberra.
nothing to suggest that it will
lose any of its advantage.
Increased sales were reflected
in the higher profit, up £17,721
to £98,862 and representing a
magnificent 60.2 p.c. on capital,
which is all in ords. Trading
profit itself was £169,256
(£141,945 for the previous
year) and out of this was pro-
vided £7647 for depreciation,
feeS and
£ n u l 7 l £4 u’ 350) for ,axatlo l>'
all of which squares up with
disclosed earnings:
Consolidated Figures.
jiy., Profit, y—Dividend—,, serves, serves,
£ p-e. £ £ £ •
Share-issue expenses, £2092 125,521
! 55..75,34i 10 = 14,400 60,941 186,402
Unexplained addition, £3332 189,794
’56..77,659 10 = 16,060 61,659 251,453
Unexpd reduction, £10,476 240,979
’57..5i,141 10 = 16,000 65,141 306,118
’58..98,862 15 = 24,000 74,683 380,801
Sales seem to be continuing on
a strong note ; and although
the chairman warned that the
present earning-rate is unlikely
to be held in the face of rising
selling-costs, it seems probable
that any reduction in profit in
the current year will be of little
consequence.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd.
THE Ludowici business has
1 been carried on now
for one . hundred years . and
its scrip has been on the market
since 1911. No empire-builder,
the company is very modestly
capitalised, with nearly half of
rAicnon
£225,000 of paid capital con-
SlSting of pref.-money. A dis-
+ etL
position tO share the Wealth
when the going is good, or
£Ven when jt SQ gQodj ha§
always been the outstanding
attribute of the board, which
this year loses the services (by
letirement) of chairman F. J.
Ludowici.
Ludowici was set-up basi-
cally as a tanner, with the
emphasis on industrial leather
belting; but the scope of
manufacture has steadily taken
in other power-transmission
accessories and now includes
pulleys, drives, bearings, gears,
industrial gloves, etc. There
are also agency lines such as
switchgear and electric-motors.
The course of profits in the
past has tended to be unpre-
dictable, but last term’s sub-
stantial rise was not altogether
unexpected. Non - recurring
expenses, such as the reorgan-
ising and relocation of plant
and warehouse space was
responsible for the compara-
tively low level of the previous
year. The board aims to
reduce the company’s depend-
ence on leather products as
far as possible, a wise course
in view of the many substitutes
now on the market.
A net profit of £35,051 (up
£10,249) mayn’t look much, but
for Ludowici it represented a
very satisfactory return of
23.6 p.c. on ord. capital.
Although not a record, this
compares favorably with the
showing for the previous five
years—15.4 p.c., 23.9, 28.1,
24.7, 12.5 p.c. back to 1953.
Depreciation charged was
about the same as in 1957,
£10,718, and taxation provision
was £4000 higher at £20,000.
After the 5 p.c. and 6 p.c.
prefs. (£50,000 of each) had
received their £5500 and
£21,875 had been paid out on
the ords. (at the rate of 15 p.c.,
plus a centenary bonus of
2\ p.c.), little was added to
reserves, which owe more to
the effect of inflation on
freeholds than to retentions: —
Re-
Dec., Profit. , —Dividends.—serves.
£ £ £
p.c. p.c.
Pref. Ord. Total.
1953.. 106 5&6 12 20,500 79,088
1954.. 379 5&6 15 24,250 91,217
1955. .41,610 5&6 15 24.250 108,577
Assets revalued, £192,795 301,372
1956.. 367 5&0 15 24,250 312,489
To staff fund, £5000 . . 307,489
Profit, sale assets, £6844 314,333
1957.. 5&6 15 24,250 314,884
Freeholds w/down, £14,685 300,199
Capital profit, £11,460 .. 311,659
To reserve for doubtful
debts, £3000 i. .. 308.659
1958.. 051 5&6 174 27,375 316,335
In the 1958 (Dec. 31) balance-
sheet, movements are
not of much significance.
Nothing very exciting has hap-
pened since a one-for-four
bonus-issue in 1950: —
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.
Pref £100,000 £100,000
Ord 125,000 125,000
Reserves - .. 314.880 316,335
Mortgage . . 61,520 48.883
Overdraft . . 93,363 87,688
Deposit held, sale
assets . . . . 9,990 —
Creditors* .. 71,680 73,759
Staff fund . 9,969 12,826
Final div. .. 9,S00 12,925
£796,208 £777,416
Freehold.. .. 345,012 321,296-
Plant. etc. . . 87,025 97,086
Shares . . . . 34,378 34,378
Stock .. .. 182,029 194,627
Debtors, etc. .. 147,400 129,712
Cash .. .. 364 317
£796,208 £777,416
provision for taxation, etc.
On book-values at balance-
day each 20s. of ord. capital
could claim 70s. 7d. in net
tangible assets ; but the present
comparatively low return of
shareholders’ funds doesn’t
seem to favor any further
bonus-issues, nor the scale of
the business more capital. And
47s. 6d. looks a fair, if not a
bargain, price, returning 6.3
p.c. from a 15 p.c. dividend.


36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, March 16.
TVTew Zealand business can
expect to feel increasingly
over the next few months the
effects of the recent severe fall
in export income and of the
Government measures which
followed it.
Heavy insulation of various
kinds has, till comparatively
recently, delayed the necessary
adjustment of the economy to
a lower level of national
income.
Dairyfarmers, protected by
the guaranteed price, have only
recently felt the pinch of
reduced prices; the effect of
import-control on business has
been cushioned by extra stocks
bought in anticipation ; in-
creased taxes have been off-
set by higher social-security
payments and by the running-
down of savings.
In the last few weeks, how-
ever, there has been an increas-
ing number of complaints
by importers, wholesalers, re-
tailers, tradesmen and even
manufacturers of more diffi-
cult conditions, due either to
shortages arising from import-
control or to some falling-off
of consumer-demand.
Production in manufacturing
industries is being hampered
by import- controls on
machinery, the secretary of the
Manufacturers’ Federation
states.
Raw Materials Scarcer
A survey by the Textile and
Garment Manufacturers'
Federation reveals a growing
shortage in the volume and
range of raw materials required
to keep factories in full opera-
tion.
The boom in the N.Z. foot-
wear trade that followed
import-control is said to have
disappeared. Sales have
dropped and some factories
have cut production.
The Carriers’ Federation
says that last year was the
worst since the war. It blames
import-control, the general fall
in trade, brought about by the
Budget and the subsequent
uncertainty in roading and
construction expenditure.
As a result of the more chill
financial atmosphere keener
pricing and cutthroat competi-
tion have become common
throughout the building
industry, says the president of
the Master Builders' Federa-
tion.
Many firms of painters and
decorators, according to their
guild president, fear that,
unless the Government eases
import - restrictions and taxa-
tion, work will not be forth-
coming and, if it is, they won't
have the equipment to cope
with it.
Fertiliser Problem
Farmers' leaders predict that
“crippling” taxation will cause
neglect of top-dressing and
before long, unemployment in
fertiliser-works.
The Official Assignee at
Auckland reports more bank-
ruptcies than at any other time
in his 35 years’ experience.
Some of these complaints
may be made for axe-grinding
purposes, but the trend seems
pretty plain.
The buoyancy of the record
1957 Christmas quarter con-
tinued into 1958 largely be-
cause of the public’s anticipa-
tion of a substantial remission
of income-tax, promised by the
new Labor Government, the
president of the Retailers’
Federation, Mr. A. F. Thomas,
reports.
Trading continued to be
buoyant during most of the
first half of 1958, and received
another boost in May and
June due to sales of radios,
home-appliances and furniture
because of the unjustified
public fear that the Budget
would increase sales taxation.
The second half of the year
was much less prosperous and
produced problems when the
effects of the artificially
engendered boom began to
wear off and higher taxation
and restrictions became effec-
tive.
As a result, 1958 did not
finish strongly, and statistics
showed retail-trading overall
was 1.1 per cent, down for the
Christmas quarter compared
with the previous year.
Home-appliances were down
22 per cent, and furniture down
7.5 per cent. Household
durable goods, including
furniture, went through an
extremely difficult period in the
second half of 1958, and sub-
stantial falls were reported.
“The current year began
quietly and with some un-
certainty,” says Mr. Thomas.
“The Government’s higher
taxation is reaching its objec-
tive in restraining consumer-
demand. Trading is definitely
lower than a year ago, but
there are signs economic con-
ditions may not deteriorate
more.”
The tightening-up which is
now becoming apparent has
been long delayed and it may
be fairly prolonged, but it
should not, in view of the
currently brighter long-term
economic outlook, be drastic.
Increased Factory Activity
There is also another side of
the story about current busi-
ness.
Though manufacturers have
their complaints, conditions
for many of them have im-
proved substantially as a
result of import-control.
It is significant that the out-
put of New Zealand woollen
mills rose by 12.8 per cent, in
the 1957-58 year. Employ-
ment in the mills increased by
2.3 per cent, and overtime
33 per cent.
The industry’s output value
was £5,366,000 in 1957-58
compared with £4,490,000 in
the previous year—an increase
of £876,000.
More specifically, three
manufacturing companies last,
week indicated improved
results: Silknit (N.Z.), lingerie-
manufacturers ; Metters (N.Z.),
maker of porcelain* baths and
basins ; and McSkimming In-
dustries, maker of sanitary and
earthernware products.
Metters increased its divi-
dend from 6 to 8 per cent.,
McSkimming lifted its rate
from 6 to 7 per cent., and
Silknit proposed its first divi-
dend for seven years—6 per
cent.
Incidentally, in spite of more
difficult trading conditions, it
still seems most unlikely that
price-inflation has been, or
will be, stopped.
Much of the confusion in
assessing future business pro-
spects is not due to the effects
of lower export income but to
uncertainty about future levels
of taxation, according to Mr.
Thomas, of the Retailers’
Federation.
Conserving Profits
“It is becoming ridiculous
when the State is taking so
much taxation from business
enterprises to pay for the hand-
outs of the Welfare State that
insufficient profits can be put
to reserve for necessary
development and modernisa-
tion of the industrial and
commercial structure of the
country,” he said in his
address to the Federation’s
conference.
“The Welfare State would be
impossible without prosperity
and stable employment
throughout the economy.”
The greatest contribution to
stability in overhead costs was
a more sensible level of taxa-
tion. Already the effects of the
Government’s new taxation on
living-costs were resulting in
murmurings about a new
general wage-order.
“It is no use the Govern-
ment taxing us all to the hilt
in order to give away an
increasing share of our profits
as ‘benefits’ to the community
at large when, as a result, costs
and wages go up and the people
generally have to pay more for
their goods and services,” Mr.
Thomas said.
The Minister of Finance,
Mr. Nordmeyer, has scoffed
at the idea that there is a sub-
stantial accumulation of cash
in the coffers of the Govern-
ment.
He told the Otago branch of
the Accountants’ Society that
he “did not support some pre-
dictions that the surplus was
likely to reach £4O million or
£5O million.”
He anticipated a moderate
surplus in the Consolidated
Fund and the Social Security
Fund, but because of the fall-
ing off in receipts under certain
headings of loan moneys it
would be necessary to draw
on the cash arising from
revenue surpluses to a greater
extent than usual in order to
meet capital expenditure.


Creek (site of the old coach-
change), and past the bacon-
factory, to the saleyards.
Already a number of trucks
and cars have pulled-in under
the sparse shade of the tall
bush trees. Over yonder I
recognise the wife of a Pen-
insula grazier, who is sitting
in a Land/Rover with her
small children . . . And there’s
old Mr. W. —! . . . well over
70 if he’s a day! He’s riding
out on his grey mare, and he
looks as happy as a school-
boy . . .
The sale is due to commence
at 11 a.m. (that means 11.30
—or 12, more likely). The
cattle have been drafted into
the pens, and a hose is running
to lay the dust; here and there
are muddy puddles that you
must hop over, or else ... In
the first pen are a wild mob
with sharp, curved horns.
They snort, and give us a
belligerent look as we
approach. On the top rails
squat a few of the “locals,”
appraising the cattle, and
yarning. One of them is a big-
framed bushman who never
misses a sale; alongside him
is a young chap who works
on the railway, but likes to
give a hand with the yarding
and drafting, and says that
some day he hopes to own a
place of his own. The other
“regular” is a picturesque
figure; lean, and dark-com-
plexioned, with a small black
“toothbrush” —he is wearing
a red satin shirt and tight-
legged snakeproof trousers.
They all wear wide-brimmed
hats, and elastic-sided boots.
saunter along the laneway
** inspecting the cattle as
we go. More people arrive.
There’s Mr. S. —a well-known
businessman, and local auc-
tioneer ; it was he who origin-
ally promoted the idea of
building the saleyards at
Mareeba. He stops to inquire
how things are out our way . . .
And coming towards us is a
tall, distinguished - looking
gentleman—retired now, but
keen as ever; his handshake
gives you the impression that
he is really pleased to meet
you. My husband and he are
old friends, so I leave them to
chat about days gone by, while
I have a few words with some
women I know.
One is the wife of a dairy-
farmer from an adjoining
township; the other is from
the Tablelands —they have a
fattening property. The bank-
manager brings his wife along
for a look-see ; she has never
been to a cattle-sale before;
they won’t stay long.
By this time the dust is start-
ing to rise. We are covered in
dust. We chew dust. My
husband catches-up with me
and we move off, making for
the shade of a big weeping-fig.
Ah! There are three more old
bushmen! We discuss things in
general the cattle-duffing,
and the bushfires. Somebody
has burnt us out. They sym-
pathise with us, and after a
heated disdussion all agree
that “those fire-bugs want
stopping! ”
It won’t be long now ; the
buyers are all here, and the
auctioneers, w i t h their
clerks . . . And here is Mr. X.,
representing his firm —a tall,
dark-haired, lean-faced man;
shrewd, but with a pleasant
manner; he is dressed in an
open-necked shirt, with white
overalls, and he, too, wears
elastic-sided boots. He climbs
up the fence; balances him-
self on the top-rail; and the
sale is on . . .
“Good morning, ladies and
gentlemen! Today we have
a very attractive line of
approx, six-hundred head of
cattle to be offered for sale ;
a small percentage of fats ; the
balance good foreward-stores.
All cattle are from ticky areas
[implying that these cattle will
be immune from “redwater” —
disease of cattle]. All are
inoculated against pleuro.
All cattle sold become the
responsibility of the buyer. I
wish to emphasise this . . .
Terms cash, unless other
arrangements have been made.”
He stops to draw breath —
rubbing his hands together in
anticipation.
“Ah! Here we are now,
ladies and gentlemen! A good
pen comprising eighteen nice
fore ward - stores number
fours. Now, ladies and gentle-
men, is there eighteen-pounds
anywhere?”
Not a movement or a sound
as he searchingly glances
around. Then :
“Is there sixteen-pounds
anywhere?”
A half-hearted bid from the
stockyard rails. “Thirteen-
pounds.”
“That’s a bit tough, gentle-
men . . . Make it fourteen-
pounds, and I’ll go with
you.” . . .
So—at £18! -—the first pen is
sold.
'T’he fiext is a pen of prime
butcher’s bullocks aver-
aging around 600 . . . You
can see the keen anticipation
on the faces of the local
butchers and meatworks
buyers, as they press eagerly
to the rails. These pens are
the auctioneer’s dream . . .
We follow the auctioneer
around until he arrives at the
younger class. These are the
pens in which we are inter-
ested, so it is our turn to
elbow our way to the rails.
The first is a pen of 19 young
steers —tough little beggars,
bred on country similar to our
own. I have a modest nest-
egg put so (on the advice
of my husband) I decide to
invest. Up goes the auctioneer,
and, after he has given us all
the good points, and stops to
draw breath, Himself gives me
a nudge: “Go on, bid six!”
he says ... A very timid “Six!”
—from me, which, to my
amazement, the auctioneer
manages to hear. “Come on
now, ladies and gentlemen, I
can’t give them away!”
Somebody bids £6 55.; then
another bid of £6 10s. . . .
Himself gives me a kick on the
sore corn : “Go on! ” he hisses.
“Bid seven! ”
I am goaded to do battle.
I yell, “Seven!” —and look
around defiantly, as if daring
anyone to outbid me. Silence
reigns. Nobody bids —and,
they are knocked-down to me.
1 decide cattle-buyers must be
a chivalrous lot . . .
In no time I am being con-
gratulated on my good buy:
“I see you have bought some
cattle, missus! Good luck to
you!”. . . “My word, missus,
you got a good lot there!”. . .
“I wish I had the dough ; I’d
buy-up all I could get at that
price—you can’t go wrong.”
I begin to swell with pride
as I* realise I am an “owner”
—a “cattle-owner ” —just like
those others strutting round,
with the turned-down brims
to their hats, and that import-
ant “Santa Gertrudis” 100k —
only, on a much smaller scale,
of course . . .
Then: “Only nineteen!” I
think ruefully. “I should have
invested in another lot.” And
then I do a bit of mental
arithmetic: 19 at £7 per head
= £133, and £133 = a big
hole in my banking account.
So I come down to earth, and
strut round with the ladies
while Himself does his share of
buying.
A fter the sales we are all
business. Waving good-
bye to our friends, we go in
search of our “boy,” who is
down at the drover’s-camp
hoeing into a huge hunk of
salt-beef and damper, accom-
panied by a pannikin of black
tea, while his mates entertain
him with details of the trip
over, and news of his country-
men up the Peninsula way.
We also engage the services of
another old aboriginal stock-
man, George, to give Jacky a
hand with the cattle. Then
we must track-down the stock-
inspector to procure our permit
to travel and waybill (they
have to do with number of
cattle, description, brands and
earmarks, travelling-route, and
owner’s name).
Armed with these documents
we lose no time in making for
home. I am pleased when I
glimpse a blue rooftop through
the trees; one more sandy
creek to cross ; one more gate
to open—and, we’re home . . .
The dogs are out to greet
us. Old Ringer—the cattle-
dog—picks up a piece of
kindling-wood for me to light-
up the fire ; he trots ahead to
the kitchen, while the pup
jumps with glee.
After a cup of tea, and a
shower, my husband rides off
to meet the boys with the
cattle. On arrival, the mob
is turned into a paddock over-
night, and early next morning
cross-branded and sprayed for
tick and buffalo-fly (if neces-
sary) before turning-out on to
pasture.
The next six weeks are
regarded as an important
“settling-in” period, when ner-
vous beasts are handled with
patience and care, and a plen-
tiful supply of salt-lick and
bone-meal is left in the
troughs for them. As with
most animals, cattle respond
favorably to kind treatment,
and when you find that you
are able to ride amongst them
without causing any more
reaction than an occasional
inquiring lift of the head here
and there, you are assured that
your cattle are in a fit condi-
tion to weather the long, dry
months ahead. Then, when the
first storms fall —usually in
November—they should go
straight ahead, and fatten
nicely, being ready for sale in
about four months’ time, and
showing a gross profit of £lO
a head.
What am I going to do with
all that money? Well, if Old
Man Drought doesn’t reduce
my little mob to a heap of dry
bones, you might even see me
down at the Sydney Show.


J.
<0
m,
- =
C^ci^fe-®
O
3f-
■^r
, e'-X-r
V -r/ >
S^SSsxiSg?
K
sr
<*
rOi
rr^
8
ol
%&&&$&)?
orS^r
•30
&
£>
lP
&°T>
■LJ
O
Croesus said:
“Rich? Sure! Just can’t stop
w/orrijing about Death Duties.”
He was the richest man in the world, but if he were
alive today he’d certainly have a “man sized” Death
Duty problem.
The Death Duty problem is not difficult to handle if
an adequate supply of cash is available just when it is
needed. *
An A.M.P. “Probate” policy does exactly that.
Let an A.M.P. man tell you about it.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTT FIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £400,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
POBOB


Guitarist
By JAMES MEADE
"Big man, eh?” said Eddie. “Not even; just another
half-caste like me”
Stacked bags of copra
exuded a thick, oily smell
that wrapped around him
like a warm mist. He
stood in. the loading-bay of the
shed and shrugged into a plastic
raincoat, looking out at the
flooded gutters and the slant-
ing, silver rain. He turned up
the collar of his coat, stepped
out onto the puddled footpath
and walked quickly away from
the wharf, towards the main
section of Suva.
The offices and stores were
closing for the day; people
scurried for buses and cars, or
made splashing sprints from
shelter to shelter, tacking across
the streets and huddling in
doorways. The rain increased
in volume and his trousers
flapped soddenly around his
ankles as he turned into the
shop entrance o f Pacific
Souvenirs.
Two Fijians, saturated and
hilarious, jostled one another
while they chattered about the
array of guitars, ukuleles and
Indian instruments
that cluttered the
shop - windows. He
pushed past them ;
one of the double
doors was partly
open, so he werit
inside and closed it
behind him.
A smooth - faced,
pudgy Madrasi
was leaning on a
glass showcase, read-
ing a copy of Filmin-
dia. The overhead
light glistened
on his hair as he
straightened up.
“Hello, Bob,” he
said. “I saw the old
Adi Lomaloma come
alongside the wharf
this morning, so I
thought you’d be in
after work.”
“H ell o, Hari,”
Bob Adams said.
“’Course I’d be in.
Why? Don’t tell me
the guitar’s not ready
yet! ”
“Finished, man.
New bridge, two new
pegs. Eddie said it
needed a new set of
strings, so I fit them
too.”
“Eddie said?”
“Yes, Bob. He
took it already. He
said you’d pay for it.
1 told him it’s pretty
sure you’d come in
here.”
“But what the
hell? Eddie’s in
.Vatukoula, working
for the mines. He’s
been there nearly
one year.”
Hari chuckled fatly. He
offered Adams a cigarette from
a silver case; the big man
took it and rolled it between
his fingers until Hari flicked a
lighter.
“That Eddie,” Hari said. “I
know he’s your brother, Bob,
but he always seemed a bit
waste-time feller to me.”
“Hell, Hari, I didn't even
know he was round this side
of the island. Don’t tell me he
lost his job there, too?”
“No. He told me he quit
his job. Soon as he saved
enough for his guitar, he
walked off his job and got the
bus round to Suva.”
“What guitar? You said he
just picked up mine.”
“Oi. So he never even write
about that, eh? That Eddie.
For a guitar, he can keep a
secret and even save money. I
tell you, I was surprised so
much when he came in last
week, I give it to him less ten
per cent. Amplifier and all.”
“Not that electric guitar you
had here? He never could get
enough money for that.”
“He did, Bob, true. Told me
he never had a smoke or a drink
all the time he was in Vatu-
koula. What I mean, you got
to admire a man when he can
do a thing like that.”
“Some people,” Adams said.
“Some people.”
“Funny, eh, Bob? He
always mad on guitars, eh?
What I mean, I know you can
play pretty well, but that
Eddie! ”
“It might be I never got the
practice, eh? It might be I was
too busy, eh? I’m supercargo
on the Adi Lomaloma, I got a
wife and kids, I got rent and
bills to pay.”
“Of course, Bob, certainly
Put it that way, you’re right,
one hundred per cent. What I
mean”
“I know what you mean.
Never mind it. How much do
I owe you for the repairs on
my old, ordinary, not-electric
guitar?”
“Well, with the strings, it
comes to thirty-two-and-six.”
“All right, Hari, here it is.
But don’t let anyone but me
order new strings or what next
time, eh?”
“Whatever you say, Bob.
But he’s your brother and he
really knows guitars. Here’s
your change, Bob. What do
you say we slip across to the
Hotel Suva?”
“Might as well. I’ll be lucky
if that guitar of mine got
home. And if it did, you can
bet there’s someone playing it.”
TJari closed-up the shop, and
they walked along the
slimy concrete, past the vacant


taxi-stand, and crossed the road
to the Hotel Suva. The bar was
crowded, the air thick with
smoke ; the reek of spilt beer
mingled with the peculiar smell
of wet clothes on hot bodies.
They drank beer for an hour;
then Adams bought a bottle of
rum and left Hari at the bar.
He took a short-cut through
the back-streets, his head
bowed against the rain, the
rum-bottle heavy in his rain-
coat pocket. As he opened the
front-gate, he heard the guitars
playing; he stood still for a
long moment, his head tilted
to one side, rain plastering his
black hair onto his head and
drumming on his bulky
shoulders. Rivulets ran down
inside his collar, so he shook his
head and walked along the
soapstone path, past the front
door, and around to the
kitchen.
His wife was boiling taro on
the primus ; she turned when
he came in, brushing a coarse
strand of black hair back from
her forehead. She picked up
the cigarette that smouldered on
the kitchen bench, puffed on it,
and leant back against the sink.
Instead of the neat cotton
frock she wore to work she had
on an old bula-shirt and a
blue - and - white sulu was
wrapped around her thick hips.
Her heavy mouth was sullen
as she watched Adams put the
bottle of rum on the sink and
hang up his streaming raincoat.
“Got in this morning, all
right,” he said. “Real busy
down at the wharf, though, so
I didn’t make it to the store.
Where’s the kids, dear?”
“I sent them to their grand-
ma’s for the night.”
“Just as well. I forgot to buy
them some chocolate.”
“You didn’t forget a bottle,
though, did you?”
“Now, Carol, take it easy.
I can hear the gang out front.
What do you think I came
round the back way for? Hari
at Pacific Souvenirs told me
Eddie was. in town.”
“That’s why I sent the kids
to Mum’s place. And if you
think I’m going to cook for
that crowd while you all swipe
rum, you’re wrong. I’ll get
your food, then I’m getting
dressed and going around to
Mum’s place myself.”
“Carol, I don’t want Eddie
here any more than you do,”
Adams said, mopping his face
with a towel. “Not after the
last time. I thought we —you
and me —might have a few
rums, then go to the movies.”
“Aah, Bob, how can you say
that? You hear that noise out
on the veranda? That’s your
brother Eddie’s new electric
guitar. All the money he made
at Vatukoula went for that
guitar. What I want to know
is, where's the twenty pounds
he borrowed last time he was
here? Where’s the money it
cost us to feed him? Three
months he stayed, and I never
got one penny for his board.”
“Yes, Carol, I know. And
the kids need clothes and
school-fees.”
“Well, it’s true, Bob; you
know it is. I don’t want to nag,
true. But every time Eddie
turns-up it seems like it costs
us money ; you start drinking
too much and we finish-up
rowing with one another. All
he ever does is sit around and
play a damn’ guitar. I know
he’s your brother, but I’ve got
you and the kids to look after ;
not these waste-timers.”
“All right, all right. I’ll tell
them to go.”
Adams went through the
house, but he stopped
behind the bamboo curtain that
separated the veranda from the
unlit hallway.
They were playing “Tagi,
Tagi,” the quick, tricky beat
of the music welling in and
around him. All four of the
musicians were young part-
Europeans ; one stood, with a
foot on the painted pork-
barrel, thrumming the single-
string bass; another deftly
plinked notes from a ukulele ;
the third strummed Adams’s
guitar, open-key, vamping in
the lower register. But it was
the fourth member of the group
to whom they all looked for
cues, and to whose playing
they were accompanists.
Eddie sat slightly apart from
the other three, the eight-
stringed guitar flat across his
thighs. Like Eddie, the guitar
was dark and sleek ; the plastic
control-knobs were bone-white
and the chrome fittings
sparkled in the light from the
overhead bulb.
The man playing Adams’s
guitar fluffed a change of key
in the second chorus and
Eddie’s head jerked up immedi-
ately. He put his lean-fingered
brown hands on the strings of
his own guitar, stopping the
continuing chord, and frowned.
“Hell, Ma’afu,” Eddie said ;
“don’t you know to change-
down at the end of that beat
yet? Here, give the thing to
me.”
The picks still on his fingers,
Eddie went through the change
with slow and deliberate
emphasis, three times, then he
banged it through, fast, and
handed the guitar back with a
flourish.
“Now try it,” he said. “And
you, Peter, give some life with
the uke. We start from the
beginning.”
The group went through it
again ; Adams, screened behind
the bamboo, listened to the
music appreciatively, as some-
thing apart from himself and
Eddie. He watched Eddie
sitting very upright, his fingers
hovering, then dabbing deli-
cately at the strings like a cat
with a woollen ball, rolling the
round steel with his left hand,
the right twitching subtle notes
from the guitar with clean, fluid
movements. Adams waited
until they hit the last bar before
the pushed through the curtain.
“Hi, bro.,” Eddie said.
“Never see you for a long time,
eh? But just look at this
guitar, man. Isn’t she beautiful?
Isn't she really something?
One week, and I feel like I had
her always. Really sweet,
man.”
“Yes, eh?” Adams said.
“Looks like it cost a lot of
money; more than I can
afford.”
“Well, bro.; after all, you
got other things to worry about,
what with Carol and the kids,
and working for the company.”
“You got a hide, Eddie.
What about you? Don’t you
think you got any responsi-
bilities? Hari tells me you quit
your job at Vatukoula. What
do you think you’re going to
do now? Live here like it was
a free hotel?”
“Take it easy, bro. Carol’s
been talking to you. You don’t
want to get hot about it. It’s
different this time. The boys
and me, we got something big
lined-up. True’s up.”
“Eddie, for crissakes, how
many times have I heard that?”
“But, Bob,” Ma’afu said,
“that’s the fact.”
The other two players
affirmed this, eagerly, while
Eddie stroked his guitar.
“All right, Eddie,” Adams
said. “You tell me what the
big deal is.”
“Me and the boys, we’re
going to Australia.”
A/jT aking a hard, laughing
noise, Adams lit a cigarette
and leaned against the door-
jamb, the bamboo clicking,
shaking his head as he looked
at them through the curling
smoke.
“Man, you really fool your-
self,” Adams said. “You got
no money, now that you
bought that guitar. And I bet
Ma’afu and Peter and Charlie
here, they haven’t got much.
Anyway, how the hell do you
think you’re going to get into
Australia? That’s really white-
man’s country. It’s hard
enough for part-Europeans to
get into New Zealand. What
do you think the Immigration
people are going to say?”
“That’s all going to be fixed-
up proper. It is, bro., true.
See, I’ve been playing at Nadi
airport every Saturday night,
and this feller from Australia,
he was going through to the
States, about six weeks ago.
He heard me playing and he
said he’ll be in Suva for a
week and he’ll let me know
when. He said if I can get a
band together, and he likes it,
we do a trip to Australia. Fares
paid and everything. Even
sent me a cable when he was
due back.”
“Bull.”
“I’m not bluffing, Bob. He
came back through Nadi this
week and he’s around here in
Suva right now. I saw the
secretary of the Yacht Club
and we’re going to play there
tomorrow night. And Mr.
Merril’s going to be there.”
“He the one from Australia,
eh?”
“Yeah, man. A big-shot.
So me and the boys been prac-
tising since I got in from
Vatukoula.”
“And suppose he doesn’t like
the band? He’s only heard
you play ; the others been in
Suva all the time.”
“He’ll like it. Now I got this
guitar we can't go wrong. And
we got Maisie to do hula with
us. Mr. Merril, he says we
got to have a pretty hula-
dancer, too.”
“How the hell did you work
that one? I thought you and
her were all finished, sa oti
vakadua, when you went to
Vatukoula.”
“Like I said, bro., this time
it’s different. She was a bit
sort of difficult at first, but I
talked to her a couple of times
and she’s set now. We had
three —what you say—dress-
rehearsals this week and
Maisie’s all right. True’s up,
bro., we can’t miss.”
T>ob Adams looked away
from his brother and stared
at the veranda windows. The
blackness outside enabled him
to see his reflection, blurred by
the rain washing down the
glass. He blew smoke at a
ruby-eyed moth that was bang-
ing against the naked bulb in
the ceiling, the bloom of its
wings shaking loose in minute
clouds. Filling the silence of
the veranda was the sound of
the rain, pelting on the corru-
gated-iron roof and chuckling
obscenely in the down-pipes.
o Continued on page 44)


Hare-Clark Proportional Representation
Tasmania’s Toting: System
Alone among Australian States Tas-
mania elects its Parliaments on a
system of proportional-representation —
a fact which is usually regarded by main-
landers as an example of the sort of
eccentricity natural to a community
separated from the rest of the Common-
wealth by an unruly sea instead of a
neat boundary-line. Not that that
worries Tasmanians —the system which
in any other State would be a novelty
has been in use down south so long that
no Tasmanian Assembly voter under 70
has ever known any other.
In 1896 Attorney-General A. I. Clark
(later a Justice of the Tasmanian
Supreme Court) introduced p.-r. for
municipal elections in Hobart and Laun-
ceston and also for the election of
M.L.A.s from those two cities. Elsewhere
in the island the old system of first-past-
the-post was retained. No one seems
to have been very satisfied, with this
double system, but in 1907 an Electoral
Act was passed under which all Assembly
elections were to be conducted on the
p.-r. plan, using the five Federal elec-
torates, each to return six members.
Some modifications were made by Clark
to the original system advocated by
Thomas Hare in the middle of last cen-
tury, the most important being in the
method of transferring surplus votes
from an elected candidate —this has
become standard practice for p.-r. systems
throughout the world.
Fifty Years of It
'Tasmania was actually the first country
•*- to adopt p.-r. under adult fran-
chise, and aiter more than 50 years’
experience of it neither political party
wants to see it scrapped. It was estab-
lished by a Liberal Government, and,
except for a brief period in 1914, it has
been supported by a long succession of
Labor Governments. For most of the
period it has been in force it has pro-
duced a House of Assembly in which
the Government has had a clear working
majority, but s.nce 1948 Labor (in office
since 1934) has held only 15 seats —half
the strength of the House. From 1948
to 1955 it was kept in office by the votes
of Independents, but at the 1955 and
1956 elections the Independents were
eliminated, Labor and Liberal parties
winning 15 seats each.
This deadlock was resolved by an
ingenious amendment which provided
that in an evens-Stevens House the party
with the highest aggregate of primary
votes should form the Government, the
other party providing the Speaker. In
the event of the Opposition refusing to
provide a Speaker, the Government is
empowered to appoint one of its own
members, replacing him on the floor of
the House by a recount of his ballot-
papers.
This expedient did not, however, over-
come a main criticism of the Hare-Clark
system as applied in Tasmania. After
all, p.-r. is intended to produce a Parlia-
ment which reflects as accurately as pos-
sible the politicial divisions of the
electorate, and if in Tasmania —as in most
Australian States— the electorate is fairly
evenly divided in its allegiance, it is
natural that its Parliament should be
evenly divided. The real criticism is that
the system in its present form finds even-
ness where none exists. In a six-member
electorate a candidate who scores 14.3
per cent, of the votes cast must be
elected. This means that a party which
polls 42.9 per cent, must get three seats,
yet its opponent, with 57.1 per cent., must
also be satisfied with three.
Where the Fault Lies
/Commenting on this anomaly in a paper
presented to the Tasmanian House
of Assembly last year, George Howatt,
M.A., a Fulbright Scholar from the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, said the fault lay
not in the Hare-Clark system itself but
in the manner in which it was applied.
There was one defect; the proper func-
tioning of the system required the
election of an odd number of members,
not an even number. “The Hare-Clark
system cannot serve as the model which
the world needs until a change to seven-
member electorates is made.”
Howatt was not, of course, the first
to suggest this. In 1951 an independent
Board of Inquiry on Paliamentary Dead-
locks, under the chairmanship of Profes-
sor Hytten, recommended a change to
seven-member electorates, and in 1954
L. V. McPartlan, Independent member
for Denison, introduced a private
member’s bill to make provision for this.
The bill passed the House of Assembly,
but was turned-down by the Legislative
Council. Three years later," after two
successive elections had produced a 15-15
division of members, a House of
Assembly Select Committee on Electoral
Reform re-endorsed the Hare-Clark
system and. urged the adoption of seven-
member electorates.
Advantages
TJowatt’s paper is probably the best
independent study of the Tasmanian
electoral system that has been produced.
He argues that the system provides a
fairer and more accurate reflection of
the wishes of the electors than a single-
member electorate-system could, and that
normally it can be expected to prevent
a Government being elected by a
minority of the electors, as can happen
under other Australian voting-systems.
In Tasmanian elections there are no such
things as uncontested seats, or even
“safe” seats in the sense that they are
known in mainland Parliaments.
The Parliamentarian who favors the
single-member system primarily for the fact
that it gives him a safe seat should remem-
ber that the fundamental purpose of a
democratic election-system is to provide
satisfactory representation for the electors,
pot personal convenience for the elected.
All candidates under Hare-Clark must work
for their votes to win a seat in Parliament
—because there are no “walkovers” into
office via unopposed and safe seats; better
service to the electors is one result.
Whether this last conclusion has been
proved in Tasmania is a matter for debate,
as is Howatt’s claim that the system
produces M.P.s of higher calibre, but his
assertion that it enables the simultaneous
election of strong candidates of both
parties is sound enough—he instances the
fact that from 1950-55 the Tasmanian
Premier and the Leader of the Opposition
both represented the same electorate,
Denison.
Also indisputable is that Hare-Clark
avoids regimented “down-the-card” vot-
ing which is a feature of Senate elections.
Tasmanian. voters, Labor and Liberal,
exercise a much freer right of choice
among their party candidates than do
those in the mainland States. This is
reflected in their voting for the Senate,
when they invariably spread their first
preferences far more evenly among the
members of a party-team than mainland
voters do.
Arguing that Hare-Clark is intended to
ensure majority-rule, Howatt says that
equal-party representation on unequal
voting strength is a denial of electoral
justice which, “while not to be compared
with the frequent injustice under single-
member electorates,” is nevertheless
grave. It can be remedied only by giving
each electorate an odd number of
members. Three and five are rejected as
providing too small a House and too
great a disparity between representation
and voting (2-1 and 3-2 respectively).
Seven-member electorates, he considered,
would give the fairest result —4-3.
With seven-member electorates it iff
obvious on past records of voting that
the first six seats in each electorate would
go three to each party. The seventh
would go to the party gaining the most
votes, or to an Independent. Reference
to Federal elections in Tasmania over
the years show that all five electorates
are in the nature of “swingers” and the
margins between the two parties are
narrow enough to make it possible for
either, in a State-wide swing, to win 20-15
or 19-16, thus securing a working
majority which would not be subject to
the whim of one man.
Convinced by these and other
arguments, the Tasmanian Govern-
ment last year passed an Act
introducing seven - member electorates,
and the elections a few months
hence will be conducted on that
basis. It will be interesting to see whether
the change—first suggested when the p.-r.
bill was being debated in 1907 —will.have
the effect its sponsors hope, of giving
Tasmania “the best method of Parlia-
mentary election in the world.”


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Now, Randwick
Twenty-seven races are listed
for the A.J.C.’s autumn meet-
ing, due to open at Randwick
on Saturday, and the grounds
and course look just about
perfect. There will be upwards
of £62,000 added money, with
the £12,500 Sydney Cup top
prize. The first day includes
the £6OOO Doncaster, the
£5OOO Sires’ Produce, the £3OOO
St. Leger and the £2500
Autumn Stakes.
SELECTIONS
Doncaster: Bold Pilot, 1 ;
Skyline, 2 ; Grenoble, 3.
Sydney Cup: Ark Royal,
1 ; On Line, 2 ; Foxmara, 3.
Gold Stakes, Bold Pilot,
Skyline, Lady Cortauld and
Book Link have all pleased
connections, and the Doncaster
looks very open. Whether
Gold Stakes can see out a mile
is a trifle doubtful, but other
fancied ones have shown
ability to get the distance, or
more.
At last Saturday’s Warwick
Farm meeting—curtain-raiser
to Sydney’s autumn round —
Woodlands Wonder, winner of
three races from five starts,
secured a lucky rails run in
the closing stages of the First
Regents Park Handicap. It
was rather a fluke; she got
through a very narrow opening.
Near the distance Magic
Symbol went for a similar
small gap near the rails, but it
closed, and her backers
seemed unlucky. Anyway, she
should soon win ; trainer Ted
McMenamin has her particu-
larly fit. In finishing second,
Lady Maelynn, from Les
O’Rourke’s Rosebery stable,
showed improved form, and
she, too, should be an early
winner. She’s a Newtown
Wonder filly from Gilla ; the
dam won races on Sydney
tracks as a two-year-old.
One of the biggest upsets of
the current racing-season was
the defeat in the Warwick
Farm Chipping Norton Stakes
of Melbourne’s champion,
Lord, who went out at 4 to 1
on, to be beaten pointlessly by
Caesar, with New Zealand
stayer Ark Royal a moderate
third. Time, 2.4 j, was close
to the track’s best (2.3.9), made
in this race two years ago by
Mac’s Amber.
Ark Royal should benefit
from the run, and maybe
Lord, also, will do better,
though no excuses could be
made for his failure. Caesar
had raced poorly in Melbourne
during the autumn round, and
he was at 8 to 1 in the small
field at the Farm.
• • • «
Luck as an owner turned
for Ken Ranger, former leader
of the Sydney paddock betting-
ring, when Spectator easily
“On your marks!"
v/on his first race, the Warwick
Farm Fairfield Handicap. The
Jambo colt had started twice
previously, for a close second
to Morning Star, also at the
Farm, where he’s trained by
C. L. Sheil. A well-grown
youngster, Spectator is from
an imported dam, Fell Flower
by Felstead from Thyrse by
Hyperion. The breeding sug-
gests staying-power on the
dam’s side, though most of the
Jambo progeny have been
sprinters.
The Liverpool Handicap
should have been decidedly
gratifying to the connections
of imported Fuss, who won
impressively from Grenoble
and Boorala, and soon after-
wards was much firmer for the
Doncaster. He, however, is
another yet to show ability at
a mile. Trained at the Farm
by V. P. (“Mo”) Bernard, he
beat a top-class field with 7.6,
and has 31b. less in the Don-
caster. His time, 1.24.3, was
fast for the Warwick track.
New Zealander Foxmara,
Autumn Handicap winner, is
now well fancied for the Syd-
ney Cup, in which he has 7.11,
or lib. less than he won with
at a mile-and-a-half on Satur-
day. One of the T. J. Smith
team, and ridden by Sellwood,
he beat other Sydney Cup
fancies Baystone and On Line.
Foxmara has raced at two
miles in New Zealand, but he
was a long way back at the
finish of the Wellington Cup
last January, when Ark Royal
won with 9st.
• • • •
Ark Royal, a true stayer, has
9.5 in the Sydney Cup, but he’s
going to take a lot of beating.
Mosaic (second Cup in 1940)
won with 9.1, David with 9.7
in 1923, Eurythmic with 9.8 in
1921 and Kennaquhair with
9.5 in 1920. Back in 1890
Carbine won with 9.9, and a
famous galloper of earlier
years, The Barb, won the Cup
with 10.8 (1869). Foxmara is
bred to stay two miles ; he is by
Foxbridge (imp.) from Clara-
shah by Pherozshah (imp.).
Winner of the Second
Regents Park Two-year-old,
the Gabador (Fr.) filly My
Melodee is a New Zealander
not long in Sydney ; she had
shown only modest form in
the Dominion, with a second
at Avondale in January as her
best in three starts. Warwick
Farm was her first start here,
but the manner in which she
disposed of 18 opponents sug-
gested further success. From
the T. W. Green stable, My
Melodee was ridden by Les
Coles, former Sydney rider
who didn’t have much luck
here and went to N.Z., where
he has an excellent record. He
handled My Melodee particu-
larly well. The winner’s dam,
Rhythmical, is by Timanova
(imp.) from Minga by Limond
(imp.).
• *. »
Winchester, a consistent per-
former in restricted events,
won his first open contest, the
Cabramatta Handicap, run
under Welter conditions.
Always prominent, he went on
to win nicely from New
Zealander Royal Jester and
Woolsack. The performance
earned the Brueghel colt a
start in the Doncaster, but it’s
a big step to that sort of class.
And this year the Randwick
mile has an exceptionally
strong field.
On the final A.J.C. day at
Randwick (April 4) the main
attractions will be the £5OOO
Queen Elizabeth Stakes (w.f.a.;
It mile) and the Adrian Knox
Stakes of £4OOO, for three-
year-old fillies (H mile). Two
of last Saturday’s winners,
Wiggle in Melbourne and
Morning Gleam at Warwick
Farm, are expected to be in
the line-up for the Knox.
Wiggle would appear to have
the wood on all rivals. Morn-
ing Gleam won the Sappho
Stakes (one mile) at the Farm.
Horses available for middle-
distance events on Sydney
suburban tracks seem to be
very few, and are nothing
wonderful, anyway ; so it
seems strange the A.J.C. and
S.T.C. do not do something
about either eliminating or
reducing the number of these
mostly uninteresting races. On
the other hand, entries for
Graduation Stakes races at six
and seven furlongs often reach
or exceed 100, especially over
the shorter course. Far too
many squibby horses with little
chance of ever winning races
are competing on metropolitan
tracks. Clubs should try to
bring about changes in the
stereotyped programmes.
9
Last autumn Grenoble ran
the Doncaster mile in 1.35.1,
establishing a race-record. He
was the first favorite to score
in nine years. Only six favorites
have won the big mile in 28
years, and, oddly enough, the
same goes for the Sydney Cup.
Grenoble defeated Teranyan
and Theodric, while last year’s
Cup favorite, 10-to-9-on
Straight Draw, proved too
solid for Caranna and Push-
over. McGrowdie, who won
both races last season, will
again ride Grenoble in the


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY UNITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Doncaster. He won the mile
on Fire Dust in 1955.
* * *
Fine And Dandy, best two-
year-old of the season, is
expected to add the A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes to his list.
His trainer, Harry Plant, won
the two-year-old classic last
year with Man of Iron (7 to 4),
who downed Nilento and
7-to-4-on Skyline in the smart
time of 1.24 j, which was close
to the race-record.
• • • •
The catalogue for the Rand-
wick yearling-sales (to be
conducted as usual by William
Inglis and Son) on March 31
and April 2, 3 and 6 lists 692
lots. Some sires will be repre-
sented for the first time,
including Chatsworth II (imp.),
Double Bore (imp.), Eastern
Legend (imp.), Gallant Archer,
Golden God (imp.), Rawson
(imp.), Sunny Hour (imp.) and
Wilkes (Fr.). Newhaven Park
Stud, Boorowa (N.S.W.), is
offering several of the progeny
of Wilkes, who, a good winner
in France, is by Court Martial
from Sans Tares by Sind. Kia-
Ora Stud, Scone (N.S.W.), will
parade a number of Double
Bore youngsters, most of them
related to winners in the best
company on Australian tracks.
Rawson, winner of nine races
in England, is by Watling
Street (Derby) from Barrowby
Gem by Hurstwood.
“Pender”: Jockeys, like
prima-donnas, seem to find it
hard to give the game away
for good, and in recent years
a number of hoops have staged
a “Melba.” Victorian SLan
Ralph is the latest. Reg
Heather, who has just retired
for the second time, jumping
jockey Brian Smith and the re-
doubtable Darby Munro are
but a few of the jockeys who
made successful comebacks to
riding after having officially
retired.
“P.0.M.C.”: Jack Thomp-
son’s narrow escape from
weighing-in light at Rosehill
after Fine and Dandy’s win on
Jan. 31 —Thompson hadn’t
noticed dropping some gear, to
which the alert chief-steward
directed his attention-
recalls a similar incident some
30 years ago. Triplex, owned
by P. H. Osborne, had won
a mile Welter at long odds at
Randwick, giving midget
apprentice J. Finch his first
winner. Restive in the
winner’s stall, Triplex stood
on the reins, what time the
tiny, excited rider loosened the
girth. During the lad’s struggle
to free the reins lead fell out
of the bags. Osborne quickly
picked it up and gave it to the
boy. Under the rules this
action automatically disquali-
fied his horse, but as Osborne,
a committeeman, plainly acted
spontaneously, the rule was
waived. Amid sympathetic
smiles all round, the apprentice
literally staggered to the scales
and made correct weight.
“Sawtell”: Perth colt Herb-
ann (Filipino-Balkan Peggy)
won his first race recently.
Main point of interest about
him is the origin of his name
-—it derived from Herb Elliott
and his fiancee, Anne Dudley.
* * *
At the Valley
Wiggle earned the good
•reception she got at Moonee
Valley last Saturday as she
came back to scale after win-
ning the £5150 Alister Clark
Stakes. It was her fourth win
in two weeks, and sheM started
favorite in each of them.
Webster was hard behind the
filly as they turned into the
short straight, but in the run
home Camer rode only hands-
and-heels to hold him off
easily.
Although she won with a lot
in hand, Wiggle’s time
(2.1.9/10) clipped almost a
second off the track-record. It
was her 14th win, and lifted
her earnings to £29,775. She
needs only another £970 to top
Evening Peal’s record and
become the highest stake-
winning filly or mare to race
in Australia. She will get her
chance in the Adrian Knox
Stakes, which may be her last
race before she’s shipped to
America.
At Sydney yearling-sales last
year Melbourne couple R.
Schneider and his wife went to
2000gns. for the Pan II-
Portoba filly who races as
Pantoufle. She won the First
Hollymount Handicap (two-
year-old fillies), but had to
withstand a protest. The race
had looked easy for good-class
filly Rhexia, who went out at
5 to 2 on, only to finish a weak
third. Pantoufle was ridden
by young Des Lake, who was
later to complete a double on
Sports Quiz in the Woodlands
Handicap. He’s a good boy,
this.
•• » • •
Although she has raced only
three times, Josephina has
claims to be rated one of Mel-
bourne’s best fillies. She had
her first start at Caulfield last
month and finished an unlucky
second to Hyleena, in record
time. Next-up she careered
away with a Maiden at Flem-
ington, and on Saturday at the
Valley she won ‘ the Second
Hollymount as easily as her
price, 5 to 1 on, suggested she
would. “Bon” Hoysted, who
is experienced enough not to
rate his geese as swans, thinks
highly of Josephina, and
intends to put her away to
tackle the best of them in
the spring.
Count Tassia, eight-lengths’
winner of the mile Moonee
Ponds Handicap (three-year-
olds), hadn’t finished within
cooee of the placed horses at
his previous three runs —but
those races were the C. F. Orr
Stakes, the Oakleigh and the
Newmarket A burly chestnut,
the Neapolitan-Joystream colt
has not been over-raced by
Theo Lewis, and is sure to
improve.
• • •* . «
A couple of unlucky “trots”
ended when Prince Dahomey
won the Sydenham Trial
Stakes. The four-year-old
Angus gelding had not won
since October, but in between
had been second three times
and had never put in a bad
run. Prince Dahomey was well
handled by Bill Williamson,
and for him—of all jockeys!
—the success broke a run of
35 losing mounts on city
courses.
* * *
Trots
Starting at 7 to 2 on, cham-
pion two-year-old Great Cheer
on Saturday night paced only
three-fifths of a second outside
the Australian two-year-old
mile-record to win the final of
the N.S.W. Sapling Stakes at
Harold Park. Getting away
like a seasoned veteran, Great
Cheer set a solid pace in the
lead to the bell, was coasting
about a length clear of Stormy
Dew at the two-furlongs, then
shot away to a commanding
lead. Skymain challenged
strongly in the straight, and
beat Stormy Dew into third
possie. Since he commenced
racing in January Great Cheer
has started nine times for eight
wins. Skymain has finished
second to him in four of his
Harold Park races. The win
added to trainer-driver Jim
Caffyn’s remarkable run of
successes with two-year-olds in
the past two seasons. He has
won most of the major classics
with Eden Monaro, Robert
Lawn, Best Ever and Great
Cheer.
Sir Raider qualified for the
£5OOO Lord Mayor's Cup when
he overcame a wide run to
win the Harold Park Handicap
by a nose from the fast-finish-
ing Delvyn Ringer. The Cup
will be run on April 11, final
night of the Easter Carnival,
which opens tomorrow night
{March 26).
Ten-year-old Robert Ainsley
ran the opposition off their
legs to win the Trotters' Handi-
cap by a length from the fast-
finishing Shellgrit. Setting up
a lead of 10 lengths early,
Robert Ainsley was well clear
at the bell and won comfort-
ably.
* * *
"Nof Cricket“
Under the above title, a
letter by one Jay Selz, of
Chicago, 111., was printed tin
New York “Herald Tribune"’
on O'Neill and baseball. The
trip to America fell through,
of course, mainly because he
could not get there before the
Yankees had graded their
teams. Mickey Mantle is the
current Babe Ruth —that is, the
current “home-run king”:
As you recently reported, an Aus-
tralian cricket player, Norman


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROBERT OR. late of 263 Rilev
Street Surry Hills'.—TAKE NOTICE
that HELEN MARIA OR has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1811 of 1958
on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under section
ID (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899-1958 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in me
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 30tli day of
April 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
DEARN & MORRISON, Solicitors, 150
Phillip Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE REUBEN COLLINS late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
EVELYN JOAN COLLINS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2033 of 195 S
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the* Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 25th May 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from PISK. STOKES & CO., Solicitors,
of 16 O’Connell Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Divorce.
TO ETHEL JOYCE KENDALL late of
2/77 Gould Street Bondi Beach.—TAKE
NOTICE that GORDON MARKHAM
KENDALL has filed 'a Petition for
Divorce No. 4509 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 26th May 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from MICH ELL GEE WILSON &
CLAPIN, Solicitors, of 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney'.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ERIC CHARLES BLAKE late of
Walcha N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
IRENE DOROTHEA BLAKE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4443 of 1958
on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 2nd
June 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from DAVIES,
BYFIELD, GRAHAM & MORROW,
Solicitors, Fitzrov Street, Walcha; or
their Agents, LIGHTOLLER. TALTY &
BROOKE, 2b Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. . * .. 2/r
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal.
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
oSULUVaV
PTYLTD v'
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
O’Neill, will soon exchange his
cricket blazer for our baseball togs;
“Drawer Card,” as this crowd-
pleaser is known in New South
Wales, will be given a tryout with
the New York Yankees. After all,
if Dartmouth’s football team can
beat English rugby teams at rugby,
cricketers can learn baseball.
O’Neill already knows baseball,
and apparently very well, but 1
think it will be very confusing for
him; shortstop is not much like
“silly mid off,” a ball swept
savagely through the “slips” for
four runs is, I’m afraid, just a foul
ball here, and only the raw partisan
crowds of his native Sydney will
seem the same.
Still, if he does make it, Aus-
tralia’s anger will be nothing com-
pared to England’s gratitude, for
O’Neill has become a national
concern, like what to do about
Lolita. He causes rubicund Eng-
glish gentlemen to mutter in their
port glasses, and if he doesn’t play
American baseball they can expect
to see his bat rain 4’s upon Old
Trafford and rattle venerable Lords
with 6’s —at least for the next 15
years.
But let’s have none of this hands-
across-the-seas nonsense; Australia
is having a rough time of it, what
with Jack Kramer hiring away their
tennis-players, American colleges
enticing their swimmers and a Cali-
fornia promoter dangling $250,000
before their great distance-runner,
Herb Elliott. And now the Yankees
like the way their best cricket-player
performs at shortstop.
No, it isn’t cricket, and I
wouldn’t be a bit surprised to see
Mickey Mantle collect his bubble-
gum money next season from an
Australian cricket club. Would
serve us right.
* * *
England defeated N.Z. in the
first cricket Test by an innings
and 99 runs, and would almost
certainly have won the second
if rain hadn’t washed-out play
on the last two days. In the
second Test, May made 124
not-out, his 12th Test-century.
England now faces India at
home, and should win the
series easily.
• • • •
“Bicky”: Footnote to the
recent cricket-season. Accord-
ing to the experts, Victoria’s
Shield side was the weakest
for years, yet two of its
members topped the Test
averages Colin McDonald,
with 520 runs at an average
of 65, and lan Meckiff, 17
wickets at a cost each of 17.1.
• • • M
“Not Out”: As an inter-
state cricketer of long ago I
deplore the namby-pamby stuff
and slow scoring of today. In
my time, out where I played,
the usual thing was to have an
early lunch, and then go on to
the field and pick-up any loose
rocks or empty tins before the
game got going. Both sides
would have two complete
innings, and the game would
finish with plenty of time for
all to get half-blithered before
sundown. There was plenty of
excitement in those games.
Fieldsmen didn’t have billiard-
tables on which to field a ball.
Many a time, when a man
stooped to stop a shot, the
thing would hit a stone or
screw out of a horse-track.
Sometimes the man was lucky;
other times he wasn’t —in
which case he’d be escorted to
the bar to patch-up the broken
lips or smashed teeth where
the ball had hit. We had
decorum and etiquette, too, and
umpires’ decisions were never
queried—well, hardly ever.
What State did I play for? I
represented the Northern
Territory in a match against
Queensland, played at Camoo-
weal. I got top score ! I
really couldn't help it —I was
the only teetotaller playing.
# * *
Other Fields
At Sydney Sportsground on
Saturday Betty Cuthbert set a
new world-record for the
440yds. (54.35ec.). N.Z. girl
Marise Chamberlain who
with Betty Cuthbert and Eng-
lish lass Molly Hiscox jointly
held the former record
(55.65ec.) —came second in
54.8 sec. It was a great race
between the pair. Betty Cuth-
bert earlier had won the
220yds. It was the second day
of the N.S.W. women’s athletic
titles, at the same time a con-
test between N.S.W. and N.Z.
being held. N.S.W. won this
six to three. Two other note-
worthy efforts N.S.W.’s
Sylvia Mitchell winning the
high-jump with a new Aus-
tralian resident - record of
19ft. lllin., and N.Z.’s Val
Sloper easily winning the shot-
put.
* * *
In the Australian amateur
cycling titles in Perth the 10-
mile was won by Johnny
Adams (W.A.); Victorian
Peter Bartels landed the 1000-
metre time-trial; scratch pair
lan Chapman and Eddie
Wylie (N.S.W.) —paired only
when another rider became ill
—won the 2000-metre tan-
dem ; Barry Costa (Vic.) got
there in the 1000-metre sprint;
and John Perry (Vic.) won the
4000-metre individual pursuit,
and was champion of cham-
pions. After the champion-
ships an Australian team was
selected to compete in the
world titles in Holland in
August. It’s a young team,
and should get valuable ex-
perience. Included is N.S.W.
rider Warren Scarfe, one of
Australia’s best young cyclists,
who had refused to go to Perth
with the N.S.W. team because
of a squabble about expenses.
* * *
On Sunday, at Melbourne
Olympic Park, four runners
(Elliott, Albert Thomas,
Murray and Wilson) set a new
world - record of 16min.
25.65ec. for the four by one-
mile relay.
* * *
History is being made this
year in the English F.A. Cup.
To meet in the final at
Wembley in May are Luton
Town, which has never before
played in a Cup-final, and
Nottingham Forest, which has
not got there since the 1890’s.
Also history-making was third-
division club Norwich City,
which after drawing 1-all with
Luton in their semi-final, was
beaten 1-0 in the replay. It
knocked over some redoubt-
able opponents on the way.
No other third-division side
has ever reached the semi-
finals.
* * *
Among the recent stoush:
At Los Angeles American
negro Davey Moore won the
world “fedder” title from
African negro Hogan (“Kid"’)
Bassey on a t.k.o. in the 13th, thus
joining the venerable Archie (light-
heavy) as the second Moore to
currently hold a world title; it was
Bassey's second defence of the
title, which he won in June, 1957,
from Frenchman Cherif Hamia.
At Melbourne on Friday night
hard-punching Hungarian-Austra-
lian light - heavyweight Stefan
Raduly, who had won all his four
pro. fights in short order by k.o.
or t.k.0., was on the receiving-end
to American negro middleweight
Willie Vaughn—Vaughn, per t.k.o.
in the second; he has lost only one
of his five fights in Australia, and
that on a close points-decision to
American Jimmy Martinez in
February. At Sydney on March 16
American negro lightweight George
Berry stopped Russell Sands on a
t.k.o. in the seventh; Berry had
Sands helpless. In Sands’s previous
fight, Israeli champion David Oved
had stopped him in eight rounds.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WOOL
A few items yarded after a
muster of U.K. editorials
on wool problems:
A Cool View
Examining the present situ-
ation of the wool-industry in
Australia and N.Z., “Man-
Chester Guardian” remarks that
“when wool rose to more than
200 d. per lb., as it did in the
Korean crisis eight years ago,
the Australian grazier believed
his product to be invincible and
his income inexhaustible. To-
day, when the price has fallen
to less than 50d. per lb., he is
puzzled and angry and feels
cheated.
“Above all, he feels that it
is the fault of man-made fibres
MOSCOW TAPESTRY: 1959.
stealing (for that is how he
often regards it) his market and
his livelihood. In a lesser
degree other wool-producers
probably share his views.
“In fact, when he rejoiced at
selling at 200 d. per lb. he was
cutting his own throat. Such a
price drove people to man-
made fibres, which have
brought down the future ceiling
for wool, according to the
general-manager of the New
Zealand Wool Board, to about
50d. to 60d. per lb.
“Where the producers would
be now if the wool-textile trade
had not spent money on
research, goodness knows. Yet,
as Professor Speakman, head
of the textile department of
Leeds University, recently
pointed out to South African
wool-producers, thanks to im-
proved treatments by manufac-
turers wool has maintained its
share of the total of apparel
fibres used each year remark-
ably well for 20 or 30 years. As
long as wool remains competi-
tive in price it will have an
assured place—and it seems
clear that the producers can
pay their way at an even lower
price than 50d. per lb., pro-
vided that they are efficient.
“More money could well be
spent on research into sheep-
farming methods. The man who
is careless and sends
in poor fleeces will not
last long. His rival, who
is not afraid to spend money to
improve his breeding-stock and
his pastures, will still do
reasonably. The Australian
Wool Bureau is trying to per-
suade the South African and
New Zealand producers to join
it in spending £4 million on
a world-wide wool-promotion
campaign under the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat. This
may help, but only if every
effort is made to produce wool
of the highest quality at a
competitive price.”
World-wide Promotion
Bradford “Wool Record,”
welcoming reports of the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau’s promo-
tion scheme, observes that “at
a time when the growers’ in-
comes have been seriously
reduced by a fall in wool prices,
this is a bold decision”:
“Yet it is fully justified by
the circumstances. Promotion
campaigns are needed most
when demand for one’s product
is weak ; but when profits are
low or non-existent there is
less inclination to find the
money for it.
“However, the growers have
long been convinced that pro-
motion for them is far from a
marginal activity. They see
clearly that wool, in good times
and bad, is up against the com-
petition of other fibres and —
perhaps more important now-
adays of other consumer-
goods as well. Consequently
there can be no let-up in world-
wide promotional work, and
the fact that the last season
and a half has been a period of
depressed prices emphasises the
need for an intensified cam-
paign on behalf of wool.
“The level of prices has a
vital bearing on demand for
the fibre. On all sides one
hears it said that wool is now
at such an attractive price that
trade is bound to pick up.
Only a few days ago Mr.
William Weatherley, chairman
of the Australian Woolgrowers’
Council, declared that present
prices are a corrective ‘that
will bring wool back into trade
and favor.’ The context in
which he was speaking was the
attitude of his council to the
plan for a floor-price system
in Australia similar to those
operated by New Zealand and
South Africa. Mr. Weather-
ley’s words will be cold comfort
for those growers who are
finding it hard to make a
living; but with the general
thesis that wool prices must
remain competitive with other
fibres no one could disagree.
“The only proviso is that
when prices are as low as they
are now the benefit should be
passed on to the public in full
measure and quickly. Most
textile and clothing firms have,
indeed, done so. Others
appear to be very slow in
reflecting lower raw-material
costs in the retail prices of
their goods. It is appreciated
that the persistent advance in
other production-costs, notably
wages, offsets the fall in wool
prices. But it is tempting, in
an inflation-ridden period like
this, to charge the market what
it will bear. That may suit
some wholesale and retail
traders, but it is extremely
harmful to all who produce or
process wool.”
U.K. Home-trade Promotion
The same paper reports that
the U.K. Wool Textile Delega-
tion has done much to convince
a fi branches of Britain’s wool-
industry of the urgent need for
a collective home-trade promo-
tion plan. Discussing “what
should be promoted and how
mU ch spent,” the “Record”
comments:
“Some people are disap-
pointed that the promotion is
to be based on the products of
the industry and not on wool
alone. They fear that to pub-
licise yarn and cloth which
may contain man-made fibres
as well as wool is to let a
Trojan Horse through the
gates. ‘What is there to pre-
vent these fibres further en-
croaching on wool’s preserves?’
they ask. This fear is not
groundless, but it should be
put in the right perspective.
“Despite the introduction of
man-made fibres, this industry
is still a wool-textile industry
and will always remain so.
The industry’s promotion
efforts will not publicise other
fibres to the disadvantage of
wool so long as they are in
control; and certainly the
same can be said of the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat. It
must have been with the
greatest reluctance that the
secretariat agreed to join in a
campaign which was not on
behalf of 100 per cent, wool
products.
“But there was no alterna-
tive, either for the delegation
or the I.W.S. It was not
possible to command the sup-
port of the entire industry while
adhering to wool only—and it
was generally agreed that this
was a matter on which the
industry should be united. The


British Wool Federation could
have run a pure-wool campaign
in conjunction with the 1.W.5.,
but would sufficient funds be
available from these two
sources to finance a promotion
on a large enough scale?
“Furthermore, other sections
of the industry, however they
may differ from firm to firm in
their attitude to the synthetic
fibres, also have a strong
attachment to wool. It is
surprising how much support
for the promotion plan is
coming from spinners and
manufacturers who are using
fairly substantial weights of
man-made fibres.”
Step Forward?
The slight (about 5 per
cent.) price-rise at Australian
and N.Z. auctions in February
made London “Financial
Times” optimistic about pros-
pects at the London sales:
“What has perhaps been
most encouraging is that
though the upward surge has
lately disappeared and has at
VICKY, IN LONDON “NEW STATESMAN .”
times given place to some
irregularity and slight setbacks
the Dominion markets as a
whole have so far held their
increases well. This is what
makes the recent upswing sig-
nificantly different from the
various attempts at a rally
during the long decline in
wool prices which started in
May, 1957.
“The U.S. has played an
important part in wool’s
recovery. American textile
activity has risen sharply in the
past few months, and this has
been accompanied by sub-
stantial purchases of raw wool.
Mainly because of U.S. buying,
though recent currency changes
have helped, wool stocks in
South America, previously the
source of a good deal of un-
certainly, have been largely
cleared.
“But wool’s improvement
has been more broadly based
than this. With the de-stock-
ing movement virtually com-
pleted, textile production in
most countries has moved to
a higher level. Japanese buyers
have come back into the over-
seas auctions in an impressive
manner, and there has been
useful support from the U.K.,
East Europe and the Continent
—even from France, which
only .several weeks ago had
supplies on hand well in excess
of requirements.
“There is, of course, still
no reason for wild enthusiasm.
Wool prices at last appear to
have grounded, and that in it-
self is a cause for satisfaction,
but the trade is a long way
from its previous level of pro-
sperity. Further setbacks, even
if only temporary ones, can-
not be ruled out. It is better,
in any case, for the industry to
consolidate its position than to
advance too rapidly. Provided
the demand for raw wool main-
tains its recent strength—and
the approach of the end of
the current selling - season
suggests that it should —there
is every reason to suppose That
the next major step will be
forward.”
Suez Settlement
"Dress comment on the sign-
ing of the Anglo-Egyptian
financial settlement on Suez:
“Manchester Guardian":
“There has been a tacit ex-
change: President Nasser has
abandoned his unenforceable
war-damage claims, whereas
Britain has written-off the very
tangible assets she once
possessed in the Suez Canal
base, valued at some £4O
million or £SO million. And
nobody pretends that £27.5
million, which the United Arab
Republic is generally thought
to be providing as compensa-
tion for Egyptianised property
and losses due to sequestra-
tion, will come anywhere near
meeting legitimate claims.
“This is, in a way, rough
justice. Governments which
undertake policies as moun-
tainously foolish as the Suez
adventure must expect that
they will prove expensive. Un-
fortunately it is not merely Mr.
Macmillan, Mr. Selwyn Lloyd
and their colleagues who will
have to foot the bill. The
chief sufferers will be those
whose property was taken-over
as a result of the Govern-
ment’s folly, and who will not
get its full value back.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail ” : “The
main step still lies ahead. The
agreement does not cover the
resumption of diplomatic rela-
tions between the two
countries, although, in the
words of Mr. Eugene Black, it
will remove ‘a major obstacle.’
“A British mission will be
set up in Cairo to see that the
financial agreement works, but
this should not be looked on
as an end of the matter. Full
diplomatic relations should be
restored.
“With Mr. Khrushchev still
on the Arabian warpath this is
as important to ourselves as it
is to the United Arab Republic.
It has nothing to do with
affection: it is needed for
trade as well as diplomacy.
In both we have leeway to
make up. Diplomatic recogni-
tion must be the next
immediate objective.”
* * *
London “Financial Times ”
correspondent: “There is little
warrant for expecting Nasser
to show generosity towards the
U.K. or willingness to allow
a return of British business to
Egypt on the pre-Suez scale.
It would be dangerous to
assume that he has been caught
by British patience in a cleft
stick. True, he desperately
needs to lay his hands again
on Egypt’s blocked sterling
balances. But he does not
perhaps feel the pressure of
economic considerations as
strongly as a European states-
man. British patience has paid-
off in producing as good a
settlement as could be expected
after the Suez disaster. More
can neither be expected nor
attempted.”
* * 9
London “Financial Times ”
editorial: “The Government,
for what are no doubt excellent
reasons of public policy, has
concluded an agreement with
the Egyptians which leaves un-
covered the cost of a large
part of the private loss
suffered as a result of the Suez
affair. It has a clear responsi-
bility not to leave private indi-
viduals to foot the public bill
but to make up the difference,
where necessary, from public
funds. As in the case of Suez
Canal shareholders, who are
threatened with a tax-assess-
ment on the distribution they
are receiving as compensation
for loss of assets, the Govern-
ment is proposing to behave
with a niggardliness which in
the circumstances is quite
extraordinary.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph" :
“Why was the agreement
initialled when so much that
was vital to it was still obscure
to the negotiators? It is diffi-
cult to believe that the multipli-
cation of letters at the end
would have been necessary if
the original delegation had
included any members who had
real knowledge of Egypt: some
representatives of the men and
women most closely concerned,
for example. Why have we
agreed that an Egyptian
Minister’s decision on tax dis-
putes shall be final—without
right of appeal? Nor is it easy
to see why the important
matter of diplomatic represen-
tation was not settled at the
very beginning. We knew
from French experience
months ago that nothing would


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
work smoothly without it. Even
now, though the Chancellor
told the House that this had
been agreed, no letters setting
out the agreement have been
publisiied. Do any exist?”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman” :
“Neither trade nor aid will in
themselves solve the problems
of our relationship’ with the
headquarters of Arab nation-
alism. But they are of crucial
importance in the establish-
ment of relations on a sounder
footing than before. What-
ever influence Britain exerts in
future on the Arab world must
rest on the foundation of
respect for Arab neutrality in
the cold war —the same founda-
tion which the Russians have
used so successfully. The
most obvious source of future
conflict will arise from the
appeal of Arab nationalism to
our oil protectorates. Unless
trust and confidence are estab-
lished, we shall find ourselves
once again opposed by the
great mass of Arabs with
Russia posing as their cham-
pion. The Government should
think of this not simply in
terms of military operations to
protect our oil-supplies but in
terms of preventing the need
from arising.”
U.S. and Indonesia
"Crom “New York Times”:
■*- “In what is described as a
reassessment of Indonesian
neutralism the United States
has sold arms and extended
substantial credits to Indonesia
in the hope of strengthening
its resistance to Communism.
There are, indeed, indications
that such resistance is growing
under the leadership of the
Army, despite its backing
of a return to rule by Presi-
London “News Chronicle."
“I’M NOT A NUT! I SAW ANOTHER ONE, I TELL YOU—LIKE A BIG
GOLDEN CIGAR WITH A GLOWING TAIL."
dential decree to end party
quarrels over President Soe-
karno’s Communist-inspired
concept of a ‘guided demo-
cracy.’
“But it would seem that
caution must remain the order
of the day. The Government
will undoubtedly use the arms
to suppress the remnants of a
revolt that started in opposition
to both Javanese hegemony
over all other Indonesian
islands and President Soe-
karno’s ‘new deal,’ rather than
coming to terms with the
rebels. And the credits, while
possibly aiding some economic
rehabilitation, might also
merely encourage Indonesia to
persist in policies that keep
from it the economic help it
. needs most —namely, foreign
private investments and
managerial know-how.
“Such help will certainly not
be encouraged by the wholesale
seizure of foreign enterprises,
starting with the Dutch in
1957 and now being extended
to British and other foreign
interests. The Indonesian
Government holds out the
prospect of compensation, but
at least in respect to the seized
Dutch enterprises it proposes
to pay compensation only
after the settlement with the
Netherlands of all outstand-
ing problems, which means
only after the Netherlands
surrenders West New Guinea.
“This is tantamount to hold-
ing private investments for
ransom for political and, in
this case, imperialistic aims,
thereby setting a precedent
which could easily be applied
to other nations. The Nether-
lands, a faithful North Atlantic
ally, has reason to feel
aggrieved, and it must be hoped
that the United States will use
its influence to persuade Indo-
nesia to end practices that are
both contrary to international
law and suicidal.”
View to the East
IpROM an interview between
A London “Financial Times”
and the Rt. Hon. Peter
Thorneycroft, M.P., former
British Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, on his return from a
visit to the Far East:
“Is India losing the contest
for prestige in South-east Asia
to China ?
“No. At this stage India’s
prestige is high in South-east
Asia. It is true that the eyes
of all Asia are fixed upon the
Chinese experiment. If, as
seems possible, China’s strength
should continue to grow, her
influence and prestige will
clearly grow with it. Neverthe-
less, I found no one, even inside
the Communist bloc let
alone outside it—who con-
sidered that the Chinese form
of Communism was suited to
their particular country. Even
among the Chinese living out-
side China, while many
genuinely admire the efforts of
their countrymen, few would
wish to emulate them.
“Have- you any general im-
pressions of the impact that
Communism is making in
South-east Asia?
“I found no political
neutrals among the Govern-
ments I saw in South-east Asia.
Some were, of course, neutral
in the sense that they had no
wish to join, say, the Baghdad
Pact or Seato, but none of them
regarded the advance of Com-
munism with anything other
than apprehension. This does
not, of course, mean that the
Communists are not active or
have no adherents in these
areas. They are pursuing with
force and vigor, and sometimes
with success, their policy of
exploiting any nationalist or
revolutionary movements avail-
able.
“Nevertheless, this com-
monly held view among the
leaders of South-east Asia that
the Communists must not be
allowed to dominate their
countries is a political factor of
the first importance.
“It is very hard to judge the
underlying strength of Com-
munism in the area. It will,
however, undoubtedly grow
unless the countries of South-
east Asia can continue to find
not only ways of raising
gradually their living-standards
but also a sense of purpose
which will carry them beyond
the mere achievement of inde-
pendence.
“In the economic field more
is needed than new capital.
One notes that the areas of the
world progressing fastest are
those which command large
and expanding markets. The
United States, the Communist
bloc and, increasingly, Europe.
One is struck by the spirit of
economic nationalism which
pervades South-east Asia.
“Some method comparable
to the efforts made by the
O.E.E.C. in Europe to reduce
or at least Limit import-restric-
tions on one another’s trade
could over the years do much
to improve their standards. The
most remarkable examples of
trade-restriction are, of course,
to be found between India and
Pakistan, but it is a prevalent
economic ill of most of South-
east Asia.”


FIRST regular jet service across the North Atlantic ...
FI RST to the Far East.. •
... First
£ ■
mm
' '
w
••Cfe
';■■■ —■ • -
HI
9:&
)■
with round-world jet service
...by Comet 4 Jetliner and Britannia Jet-Prop!
Comet 4
From early April you can enjoy the incomparable comfort and luxury
of jetliner travel all round the world by BOAC. And only by BOAC—
undisputed world leader in this jetliner age.
Comet 4 Jetliners now operating between New York, Montreal and
London, will also operate services from London via the Continent,
Middle East, India, Bangkok, Hong Kong to Tokyo. At Tokyo they
will connect with the new BOAC Britannia Jet-Prop services to Honolulu,
San Francisco, New York and London.
This round the world jet service can be joined from Australia by flying
Qantas to Hong Kong, Tokyo, or Honolulu, or by BOAC Britannia
from Sydney or Melbourne to Singapore or Bangkok. Break-of-journey
facilities available on all services.
BOAC Comet 4 Jetliner is supreme in the skies for super-fast, super-
smooth, vibration-free flying. The BOAC Britannia is the largest, finest,
fastest jet-prop airliner in the world.
Book by BOAC. You’ll arrive gloriously fresh . . i
thanks to the difference BOAC jet travel makes.
FLY BOM
The most experienced Jet Airline in the World.
For full details ofLuxury and Low-Fare services throughout
the world, see your Travel Agent, Qantas Empire Airways
(BOAC General Agents for Australia )
Subject to Government approval
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL, S.A.A. AND C.A.A.
Al l/AU


Between
Ourselves
- Have You Ever Tried
* This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
start the day right!
j^sgja
,<ae
‘e’SS*
“A trip to Australia,” Adams
said. “All you ever did was
learn how to play a guitar and
you get a trip to Australia.”
The other three players
looked studiously at the floor,
but Eddie laid his guitar down
carefully on the Fijian mat
beside him and sat back in his
chair. He crossed his right
ankle over his left knee and
took one of the small local
cigars from the pocket of his
green - and - orange bula-shirt.
He bounced it up and down on
the palm of his slim hand
before he lit it.
“What’s wrong with a
guitar?” he said. “You play
one yourself.”
“Yeah, I do. When I got
time. And don’t forget who
owns that guitar Ma’afu’s been
playing.”
“All right, all right,” Eddie
said, puffing on his cigar.
“Don’t get hot. He won’t
hurt it. His own one hasn’t got
such a good tone.”
“I suppose that means you
want it for - tomorrow night,
eh?”
“That’s right, bro. I told
you what a big deal it is, what
with Mr. Merril and every-
thing.”
“Yeah, you told me, all
right.”
“I’ll look after it, Bob,”
Ma’afu said. “It’s only for
tomorrow night, true.”
“You know, bro., you worry
too much,” Eddie said. “My-
self, I think you’d like to be
going on this trip.”
“Go slow, Eddie,” Peter said,
tightening one of the ukulele’s
strings. “We don’t know if we
going to go or no.”
“We’ll go. But my brother
here, he’s a very serious man.
You heard him talking about
responsibilities. But that doesn’t
mean he wouldn’t like a trip
away. Right, bro?”
“Listen, Eddie. I’ve been
working for the company for
eight years, but I never got a
trip away. Except when the
Adi Lomaloma does a run
to Samoa or Rotuma, I never
been out of the Fiji group,
even.”
“That’s what I say. See, all
I want is to borrow your guitar
for a while and just stay here
until Mr. Merril fixes-up our
passages. What’s wrong with
that? You’re my brother.”
“What about the last time
you stayed here? Cost me a
lot of money, Eddie. I’ve got
a family to keep, remember.”
“See? I knew you been
talking to Carol.”
“Don’t be too smart, Eddie,”
Adams said.
“Why not? Think I want to
be like you and all the other
dumb part-Europeans in this
lousy place? I got a good
chance to get a trip away and
get paid for it. Playing guitar,
because playing guitar is what
I like and what I do better
than anyone you ever heard
here. That’s the fact, and you
know it.”
“Cut it out, Eddie,” Ma’afu
said. “Bob’s a pretty good
guitar-player himself.”
“Not even. There’s dozens
can play just as good and a
lot who can play better.
You’re one, yourself. Why you
think I pick you for the band?
Even if my big brother would
leave the damn’ company and
those responsibilities, he’s just
not good enough to play. May-
be if I gave him some coach-
ing, then he might improve. If
he could forget his precious
family for a while.”
“You. That’s enough out of
you. I don’t care if you are
my brother, you can off
out of here. Take your guitar
and your waste-time band and
out.”
“Now, bro., take it easy. I
was just talking. You wouldn’t
want to spoil things for me,
would you?”
“I’m telling you, Eddie. You
want me to throw you out?”
“But, look, bro.; it’s raining.
I’ll get the guitar wet.”
“Yes, eh? That’s too bad.
Out.”
“All right, all right. My big
brother. Tough guy. You
wait, tough guy. I’ll be in
Australia, having fun and
being paid for it, and you’ll still
be sweating it out for the com-
pany because you got to keep
your job. But not me, bro.,
not me.”
Ma’afu carefully and osten-
tatiously propped Adams’s
guitar on the divan and went
to the door, the other two
players following him with
their instruments. Eddie
packed-up his guitar and ampli-
fier, then stripped off his shirt
to wrap around the case. He
paused at the door, his lean
shoulders rigid with anger.
“I can get along without
you,” he said. “Big man, eh?
Not even ; just another half-
caste like me, but you got a
ring through your nose. And
me, no one pulls me around.”
He stepped out into the rain,
and Adams stood looking out
of the open door until he saw
the four of them pass under
the street-light near the front-
gate, Eddie huddling the
guitar-case to his body, the
light splashing umber onto
his wet back. Adams kicked
the door shut and the window-
panes rattled. He went back
through to the kitchen.
r T''HE rain began to ease-off on
Saturday; by 10-o’clock
on Sunday morning the sun
was climbing above lumbering
white clouds and steaming the
streets dry. At that hour Suva
was almost deserted; Adams
walked slowly past the closed
shops, breaking step in front
of Pacific Souvenirs, then con-
tinuing on through town to the
Federated Club.
He took off his sunglasses
as he entered the club, nodded
to people at the small round
tables, waved a reply to a
Chinaman chalking his cue,
and strode over to the bamboo
bar. A trio of part-Europeans
moved along the bar to let him
into their group. One of them
called to the Fijian barman.
“Tsst, Taniela. Glass for
Mr. Adams.”
“Thanks, Joe. How’re the
men today?”
“Pretty good, Bob. Bit of
a hangover, though.”
“Hey, Bob, what say we
make-up a foursome for
snooker, after? You and me
play Reg and Rocky.”
“Okay, Joe. What about it,
Rocky?”
“Any time, man. Reg and
me will beat you easy. What
say, Reg?”
“Sure thing. Taniela, chalk
our names up on the board.”
“Thought you had a hang-
over, Reg,” Adams said.
“It’s improving with every
glass. Your brother’s fault.”
Adams put his glass down
and licked froth from his lips.
He leaned one elbow on the
bar and lit a cigarette.
“Eddie’s fault?” he said.
“Yeah, Bob. At the Yacht
Club last night. Me and Della
went; you know, the usual
Saturday-night dance they have
there.”
“I’m not a member; one
club’s enough. What about
Eddie?”
“Oh, yeah. Well, he had the
string band there last night.
Man, I’m telling you, they were
terrific. And that new guitar
of Eddie’s is really something.
I tell you, it’s the best playing
1 ever heard.”
“It went over big, eh?”
“True, man. The crowd kept
yelling for more all night. You
know, the band’s supposed to
finish at one-o’clock, but last
night the crowd wouldn’t let
them go. We left some time
after two and they were still
playing then.”
“You know, Reg, someone
told me Maisie King was doing
hula with the band there last
night. Didn’t she used to
knock around with Eddie,
Bob?”
“That’s right. If she wants
to again, I suppose it’s up to
her.”
“No joke with her, either,
man,” Reg said. “When she
does that Tahiti dance, you got
to”
“And you a married man,”
Joe said. “Some people.
Taniela, dua na tavaya beer.”
Adams waited untii the bar-
man had topped-up their
glasses from the fresh bottle
of beer before he spoke again.


“Listen, Reg, did you hear
anything about a feller from
Australia while you were there
last night?”
“Don’t just recall, man. Oh,
sure, that’s right. I was talk-
ing to Ma’afu Smith —he was
playing real well, too —and he
said something about an Aus-
tralian liked the band. But
that was when the band took
a rest, about midnight, and I
was getting on the ball by
then. Why, Bob, someone you
know?”
“No, I just wondered about
something. Taniela, give that
crowd a ring on the bell; we
want a go at the table.”
/“\n the day Eddie’s boat left
for Australia Adams was
away on a copra-general-cargo
run to Vanua Levu and
Taveuni, and his wife was at
work. Two hours before sail-
ing-time, Eddie walked into the
house and walked out again
with Adams’s guitar and his
two best bula-shirts, got into
a waiting taxi and drove off
down to the wharf.
Adams found out about it
when the Adi' Lomaloma
returned to Suva ; that night
he got drunk and knocked-out
a big Fijian. But during the
months that followed, he
gradually forgot Eddie ; except
when he was shown occasional
items about the band in the
Australian papers.
T ate in October, Adams was
on the wharf at Suva,
standing in the shade of the
copra-shed while he checked
the Adi Lomaloma’s passenger-
list.
The stern of the Adi Loma-
loma protruded out past the
right-angle formed by the main
wharf and the wharf where
she usually berthed. In front
of her, the stern almost touch-
ing the Adi Lomaloma’s bows,
was the auxiliary ketch,
Namuka, taking-on patients
and cargo for the leper settle-
ment on Makogai; in front of
the Namuka was a gaggle of
coastal vessels.
Trucks shuttled to and from
the wharf, and sweating Fijians
handled the slings as the big
crane loaded cargo for Apia
onto the Adi Lomaloma.
Around the copra-shed was a
chaos of light cargo and lug-
gage. Laborers, passengers and
crews jostled one another,
raucously confused, and tem-
pers shrivelled in the blaze of
the sun. When Adams was
nudged at the elbow, he jerked
his arm away and spoke with-
out looking up.
“Yeah, yeah, what is it?”
“Want a guitar, bro.?”
Adams spun around and
dropped the list. He stooped
to pick it up while Eddie
looked down at him, grinning,
hands stuffed into the pockets
of a wide-shouldered sports-
jacket.
“Eddie. Hell, Eddie. When
did you get back?”
“About a month ago. Why?
Don’t tell me you’re glad to
see me.”
“Course, man. You’re my
brother. But that was sort of
a dirty trick to play when you
left.”
“Man, I know it. That’s why
I say: do you want a guitar?”
“My old guitar?”
“No. Mine. I owe you that
much, bro.”
“Eddie, I couldn’t take it.
Anyway, what about you and
the band? The Australia job
all finished, eh?”
“No, the boys and Maisie
are still there. I’m finished,
though. I had to come back
to the Islands and I’m sailing
today. Or as soon as you get
this old Adi Lomaloma out
from the wharf.”
Adams frowned down at the
list that he held in one big
brown hand, and Eddie
watched him, the grin still on
his face.
“You’re not down here,
Eddie. Look, if you’re trying
to put one over . .
Eddie swayed back on his
heels and a croaking laugh
t\. isted his mouth.
“The Adi Lomaloma’s not
the only boat tied-up here, bro.
But we can’t move out till you
do. I’m a passenger on that
well-known auxiliary ketch,
Namuka. First and last stop
Makogai.”
“Eddie ... no!”
wriggled his hands out
of his pockets and held
them out towards Adams.
Now the slim, purple fingers
were thick and bloated, the
hands hugely swollen, the skin
leaden. With difficulty, Eddie
fumbled them back into his
pockets.
“My feet are like that, too,”
he said. “But I never learnt to
play the guitar with my feet
and I can just keep on getting
a bigger size in shoes, so that
doesn’t worry me so much.”
“Eddie. Hell, Eddie.”
“I been up in the hospital
for a month, waiting for the
Namuka. The guitar’s up
there. I don’t know, maybe
they can fumigate it or some-
thing. Anyway, I told one of
the nurses to let you have it.”
Adams tried to speak, but his
throat was choked and there
was a pricking behind his eye-
lids.
“I better go, bro.,” Eddie
said. ‘We’re not supposed to
wander around. Don’t come
with me. I might act silly. I’ll
see you, bro.”
Eddie turned and shuffled
along the wharf, the too-big
hands jammed deep into the
pockets of his jacket. The
first-mate of the. Adi Loma-
loma came up to Adams as
the big man was brushing a
hand across his eyes and swear-
ing steadily in a dull mumble.
“Hey, Bob. Wasn’t that your
young brother, the one who
went to Australia playing
guitar?”
“Yeah. Yeah, that’s right.”
“Thought so. I never heard
him play, but they tell me he’s
really good.”
“He was. He was the best.
Never cared much for anything
else, even when he was a kid.
He was always crazy about
guitars.”
“It’s wonderful when a
man’s got something he can
do like that. You know, some-
thing he really likes doing and
he’s really good at.”
“You think so, eh? Man,
you don’t know ; you just don’t
know.”
THE HOLLIDAYS
“ If it's haggling he wants, she'll give him haggle!"


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Small Bankrupt
There are too many cases
of small businessmen going
bankrupt while virtually work-
ing themselves into the ground
in an effort to remain solvent.
A big proportion of these
failures are New Australians,
and no doubt they’re as mysti-
fied as the general public that
an undoubted toiler could fail
to make a living in this coun-
try. Some of these bankrupts
have worked 80 hours a week
or longer. They should have
made fortunes.
In a lot of cases there are
two main reasons why they
didn’t. They undercut prices
to a point below costs ; and
they overestimated their ability
to learn a trade starting from
scratch. They had probably
heard stupid criticism of our
apprenticeship laws, and they
were prepared to bet they
could learn in a few weeks
what unions and master-
tradesmen and arbitration
courts all insist needs' a five-
year apprenticeship.
Take the case of a man who
sets himself up as, say, a
painter, and tenders for small
contracts. By the time he’s
lost small amounts on his first
few jobs—mainly because his
clients, who should have
realised they were buying on
the cheap, insisted on having
the jobs done with a certain
amount of craftsmanship—he’s
gained a reputation for poor
work and has to undercut
further to get more jobs. That
means working longer hours
to try to make something out
of a hopeless case, and only
bankruptcy saves him from
physical and mental collapse.
At that he doesn’t come out
of it too badly ; he'gets a job
—not as a painter—and can
save while still making small
weekly payments to his credi-
tors, who won’t see a fifth of
their money. Even so, they
get something. The ones who
lose heaviest through his ven-
ture are the master-painters he
was competing with and under-
cutting, and their employees.
The entire trade falls under
the disrepute he earned, and
the whole community feels a
lowering of its standards of
living.
That’s happening in a lot of
trades. In some the authori-
ties insist on certain qualifica-
tions before jobs can be
tendered for or accepted. In
some trades these regulations
seem ridiculous, and there
have been cases of master-
plumbers with tickets sitting
back and reaping fortunes by
getting a fiver or so each for
jobs done by plumbers equally
qualified—for the particular
job—but without tickets. In
other trades anyone with the
price of a paint-brush or a
hammer or a set of spanners
“For your information —showers are predicted for
this morning”
can harry the genuine trades-
man while treading the road
to bankruptcy.
In some respects Australia
could do with a lot less regula-
tions. In others there’s room
for more. Pieter Nuyts
(W.A.).
Education
Tell “Presbyter” (B.
21/1/ ’59) that I didn’t accuse
the N.S.W. Department of
Education of undertaking
“lightly and without serious
consideration of the problems
involved” its attempt to classify
pupils according to age. I’ve
no doubt it considered the
matter carefully, but I do say
its conclusions are unsatis-
factory.
A specific example: In our
local school the three top
children in fifth-class this year
will have to repeat sixth-class
merely because they will be
“too young to go to high-
school.” They had to be
advanced out of their age-
group because they were be-
coming a problem through
finding the lower-grade work
too easy. Imagine three clever
children being made to stay
another year doing-work they
have already done and seeing
no reason for it. It would be
hard to think of anything more
calculated to breed resent-
ment. “St. Leger” (B.
18/3/ ’59) seems to bear this
out.
In the past 12 years I have
had some experience of State
schools, and I see little
evidence that they are being
successful in moulding “well-
rounded citizens.” “Orion”
(B. 25/2/’59) says much the
same. The N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Education seems
obsessed with theories ' of
educational methods, but fails
seriously in the practical
matter of teaching something
worth while.
The Wyndham Report sug-
gests :
On completion of the primary-
school course and, in general, about
the age of 12 years, all pupils should
proceed, without examination, to
secondary education organised con-
sistently with the recommendations
which follow.
It is worth noting that the
report does not suggest any
arbitrary age-limit. Admittedly
some age - classification is
needed, but what I object to is
the attempt to impose a rigid
standard based solely on age,
without reference to other
qualifications. This will cer-
tainly be disastrous for the
pupil who is unfortunate
enough to have the ability—
scholastic, emotional or
social—to justify his advance-
ment, but has to be debarred
from promotion merely be-
cause he happens to be “tdo
young.”— Parent (N.S.W.).
Credit to Eddie
Glad to see that Eric Hard-
ing’s Uniform Railway Gauge
(Red Page, 25/2/-’59) gives
some credit to E. J. Ward, who,
when Commonwealth Minister
for Transport, worked hard for
a uniform gauge and was
chiefly responsible for getting
Sir Harold Clapp, Director-
General of Transport, to draw-
up his “Report on Standardisa-
tion of Railway Gauges, 1945.”
Ward has never received
much credit for his work in
this matter, and even the
reviewer treats him lightly
when he says that the chapter
entitled “Sir Harold Clapp’s
Plan” might just as well have
been called “The Education of
Eddie.”
Possibly so but I would
add that the plan, a masterly
report on the Australian rail-
way system, helped to educate
the Australian people as to
the value of railways and how
they could best serve us.
In 1936-39 there were
members declaring in Parlia-
ment: “Our railways are s done.
It is not worth while spend-
ing too much on them.”
As an appreciation of
Ward’s work I repeat a state-
ment made in 1949 by a high
officer of the N. S. Wales Rail-
ways: “If it .hadn't been for
Eddie Ward, unification would
not have got to where it is
today.” George Beesley
(N.S.W.X
The Bulletin review of
Eric Harding’s Uniform Rail-
way Gauge implies that South
Australia, like Vict o r i a,
originally adopted the sft. 3in.
guage.
Isn’t it a fact that S.A.
originally chose the 3ft. 6in.
gauge, and that even now she
has more mileage of it than
of either of the other two


scs**** 6
tana!
m
M
\v
*
i
m
is*
am
sS*i
in
Si
i'i
m
S:!
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
f DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
gauges? I recall these figures:
3ft. 6in., 1847 miles; sft. 3in.,
1529 miles ; 4ft. B|in., 654
miles — Fishplate (Q.).
Indian Caste System
“Maitri” might be over-
optimistic in thinking that
India’s caste-system is slowly
dying a natural death (B.
25/2/’59). The ideals that
inspire such modern Hindu
reformist movements as the
Arya and Bramo Samaj are not
new. Basically similar doc-
trines rejection of caste,
abolition of temple sacrifices,
uselessness of idol-worship —
have been preached over the
centuries by a long line of
Hindu religious reformers, some
of them widely influential
leaders of thought in their
time; but any reforms have
hitherto been only temporary.
India’s present leaders come
mainly from the Europeanised
classes —Nehru, for instance,
has been dubbed a brown Eng-
lishman —and have taken many
of their ideas from the British
liberals, who are their spiritual
kin. However, like denouncers
of “colonialism” elsewhere, in
order to whip-up popular sup-
port they have had to culti-
vate those of their countrymen
most attached to non-European
traditions. With the dying-out
of those who have grown-up
under British rule, British intel-
lectual influence may be
expected to decline. An age-
old Hindu institution like caste
may then be revived.
Even at the height of
British influence in India —
around World War I—it could
not be confidently stated that
the caste-system was decaying.
A reliable observer, Sir Wil-
liam Holderness, writing of
India at this time (Peoples and
Problems of India), closed his
chapter on the caste-system
with the words:
Close observers tell us that the
tendency to confine intermarriage
to the narrowest circle within the
caste was never stronger, and that
infant marriage and perpetual
widowhood are usages by no means
on the decline.
It is true that industrialisa-
tion, w'hich tends to develop
fluidity in social and economic
life, may prove an obstacle to
revival of caste. But indus-
trialisation, though it works to
the disadvantage of the here-
ditary vocational principle, is
not so egalitarian in its social
effect as is often asserted. Far
from creating a classless
society, it tends rather to break
existing classes into smaller
ones. The Hindu caste-system
may be modified by indus-
trialisation, and by the popular
education that goes with it, but
so tough a social plant will
probably prove adaptable to a
new environment. — Cunedda
(N.S.W.).
English Literature Course
If the aim of a course in
English literature is to foster
the student’s interest with a
representative cross - section
of writers, those responsible
for Melbourne University’s
matriculation course this year
have made an extraordinary
job of it.
The prescribed books are a
curious, ill-balanced selection.
There are five plays—“ Antony
and Cleopatra” and “The
Tempest,” Shaw’s “Caesar and
Cleopatra,” Wilde’s “The Im-
portance of Being Earnest”
and Eliot’s “Murder in the
Cathedral.” The novel Is
represented by Jane Austen’s
Northanger Abbey, Dickens’s
Great Expectations and Dark’s
The Timeless Land. Milton’s
“Paradise Lost” (Books I and
II), a book of Victorian poetry,
and a translation of The
Odyssey complete the quota,
Shakspeare, of course, can
hardly be omitted from a
course in English literature,
but the emphasis on drama
seems excessive. It is centuries
since the drama occupied
pride of place in our literature.
To devote practically half a
course to its study overrates
its significance. In any case,
the value of studying a play
as a book is open to question.
Plays were written to be acted,


not read; as the average
teacher of English literature
knows nothing about either
play-writing or acting, the
study of plays in schools
merely instils into student
minds a distaste for the drama.
It would be far better to
spend more time on the novel,
which, after all, has been the
major form of literary expres-
sion during the last hundred
years or so.
The choice of an Australian
work at least concedes that
Australian writers have won
a place in literature. But the
other two novels have little to
commend them. Northanger
Abbey is a period-piece that
can have small appeal to the
average student. As for Great
Expectations, 1 can only sur-
mise that it was selected to
illustrate Dickens’s defects —
the melodramatic plot, the
incredible convict, the hapless
attempts at drawing female
characters. It would surely
be more profitable to study
novelists nearer our own time
—Hardy, Wells and Gals-
worthy, for example.
The selection of poets also
seems unbalanced. With
several excellent anthologies
available covering the centuries
from Chaucer to our own era,
it is hard to see why the Vic-
torian period was singled out.
Presumably The Odyssey and
“Paradise Lost” were picked
as examples of the epic ; but
with the epic poem as dead as
the dodo it seems pointless to
pay it more than passing atten-
tion.
It may be argued that, as
matriculation students will
probably go on to study litera-
ture at university level, this
course has been designed
simply as an introduction. If
so, this introduction can
hardly be expected to whet
the appetite. Its scope is far
too narrow: there’s no room
for biography, the essay or
literary criticism, to mention a
few important omissions.—
Doynest (Vic.).
Too Many Amenities
During a Children’s Court
case in W.A. parents blamed
their boy’s delinquency on the
boredom of long school-holi-
days. The magistrate replied
that it was part of parents’
responsibilities to find occupa-
tions to keep their children out
of mischief.
He had something there.
Too many parents think their
duty is done when they. have
provided toys, money for the
movies, the beach, cool drinks
and ice-cream ; and they have
come to rely too much on
schools, clubs, Boy Scouts and
“ Yairs , Plantaganet Hero could be grand-champion if
he'd only control that schoolboy sense of humor."
Girl Guides to keep their kids
occupied. The kids, for their
part, having too much provided
and decided for them, have
forgotten how to invent their
own entertainment.
The average suburban house
must also take a share of the
blame. Designed as little more
than a place in which to eat,
sleep and entertain the odd
visitor, it makes little allow-
ance for the play-needs of chil-
dren. Nor does the home of
today offer the holiday jobs —
like feeding the fowls, collect-
ing the eggs or helping in the
garden—that used to keep kids
busy and give them a sense of
achievement and of belonging
to the family group.
Children who live on farms
or have self-employed parents
whose work they are able to
watch and share are much
better off than town kiddies
whose father sometimes
mother, too —goes off to work
in the morning and is too tired
at night to take a share in their
education.
In a 1956 “Current Affairs
Bulletin” a writer noted that
in Asian cities “there are many
children whose fathers and
mothers must work if possible,
yet it is very doubtful if the
extent and nature of juvenile
delinquency is comparable
with that produced in cities by
the triumphant materialism of
the West.”
There, to my mind, is the
key. “Triumphant materialism”
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 531
Across
I—What1 —What makes a vehicle crook against a sweet flavoring? (7)
s—Who5 —Who anaesthetise the figures? (7)
8 — A help in calculating some diary Rita wrecked with a
U.K. naval unit. (10)
9 It’s also hiding an Asian country. (4)
10— Insect fellow who’s brave against us with floral organs. (9)
11— Time of day which is batty, milady! (5)
13 —A cricket score by some lubra illegally raced under
another name. (4, 2)
14—Go on a reducing diet before
morning with poultry, and place
O’Shanter under an interdict. (6)
18 — I should be so if not capitalised
people, one a girl and one a
boy. (6)
19 — He pickles tripey literature by our
Queen Elizabeth junction. (6)
22—Date street is named after a
football score. (5)
24 — The Italian king and I German-
ised some venison diet for the
Germans? (9)
25 — An object of worship turned
into a Napoleonic victory. (4)
26 — Showy American tennis-player
with an insect which is young,
but not girlish. (10)
27 — Some hopeful race-fans bet
according to such steam-yacht
stalks. (7)
28— Grog-shop inquiry as to whether
the woman has been present. (7)
Down
influential Frenchman takes
a unit of electromotive force
with a fury. (8)
2 Both the dark and the fair
crooneress named Doris in a
Cole Porter hit. (5, 3,3)
3 Isn’t clear it’s a thief if clari-
fied. (9)
4 Literary man with a pictured
horseshoe god. (6)
5 Flora suggests a retribution about
it. (8)
6 Continental coin Clark muti-
lated. (5)
7 Direction over the identical
grain. (6)
12 — Devil street with a local tax on
show. (11)
15— Tasty sound of horn homes in
ruins. (9)
16 — Safer to drop South Australia
regimes for metal stick pro-
tectors. (8)
17— Shining on a Melbourne
beach. (8)
20— Completely subdues the cash-
register in the steamer. (6)
21 — Slum it reconstructed as an
indicator of acidity. (6)
23 —Jonathan which isn’t fruit —
swallow, nevertheless! (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 530.


ENTERTAIN IN STYLE
AT THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
mu
ulu
• 6 Magnificent Banquet
Rooms
• Superb Service
• Excellent Catering
The friendly helpful advice of The
Hotel Metropole’s experienced stall
will make your party planning a
distinct pleasure. You’ll find just
the atmosphere you want in one of
The Hotel Metropole’s 6 superb
banquet rooms including... .The
Elizabeth R00m... .Princess....
Philip... .Windsor and York. All
have been newly decorated in strik-
ing modern colours and tastefully
furnished! Yes, the Hotel
Metropole is fast becoming the
smartest and most fashionable
Hotel in Sydney! Cocktail party,
coming-of-age party, wedding recep-
tion or business function—the
comfortable, relaxed atmosphere, the
superb catering and service and
magnificent setting make your party
an occasion to remember at the
Hotel Metropole.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Largest and
Most Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
“Take it from me, Joe, they'll never get a man up
with one of those!"
has given us a high standard
of living and more amenities
of every kind, but our chil-
dren are losing the ability to
do and make things for them-
selves. They would be better
off with a life of pleasant
monotony in which they could
learn the value of pleasures
that cost no money. Then
we would not have the spec-
tacle of parents, instead of
enjoying the company of their
children, being only too
anxious to get them off to
school ; or the shocking sight
of children who find holidays
“boring.”—L. R. M. (W.A.).
Wildlife Magazine
Last year’s annual report of
the N.S.W. Fauna Protection
Panel provides a flicker of
hope that a new wildlife maga-
zine—the scope for which I
outlined in B. 6/ 8 / ’58 —may
be on its way.
There’s still ample time in
the official year for such a pub-
lication to appear—replacing,
presumably, the roneoed-fools-
cap bulletin issued periodically
to the State’s 2560 - odd
honorary rangers.
Let’s hope the panel has the
courage to go ahead with the
idea, however modest its
initial effort might be. The
ideal job would be, say, a
monthly worthy of a place on
every bookstall —that is, pro-
duced to stand on its own feet
as a commercial proposition,
not as a mere Governmental
mouthpiece. Prospects for
such a publication should be
very bright, particularly with
so many honorary rangers to
push circulation and round-up
editorial matter. — Frank Snow
(N.S.W.).
Danger of False Security
I am glad that “Wavy N.”
(B. 4/2/’59) at least agrees
that full-scale compulsory-
training would be a good thing
for Australia. I feel if it were
introduced today on a long-
range plan worried grand-
parents like myself would be
comforted by the fact that
Australia was doing its utmost
not only regarding the force
itself but, what is equally
important, the strengthening
of character of the rising
generation which will have to
bear the heat and burden of
defending their country.
I think I should tell “Tock
Emma” (B. 28/l/’59) that my
thoughts about the future
arose from a serious discus-
sion with a celebrated anthro-
pologist in Geneva some years
ago who earnestly told me it
was generally accepted that
“Australia must eventually be
engulfed in the Asiatic flood.”
One does not laugh-off such
a statement which inevitably
induced much contemplation.
I leave “Tock Emma” to dwell
upon the possible Asiatic
populations in the next decade
and the resources of men and
equipment Australia is likely
to have to combat any move
in our direction.
It is not beyond the bounds
of reason to visualise not one,
but many, simultaneous land-
ings along the vast Australian
coastline by mass - suicide
groups, which Australians who
faced such Red attacks in
Korea will remember. As for
the character of the northern
half of Australia, it is well to
recall that the early ebb and
flow of battle in North Africa
covered about 900 miles of
desert, and except for sporadic
seaboard assistance, the logistic
problem was a nightmare.
Supposing several landings
were made along the Aus-
tralian coastline, does “Tock
Emma” suggest we should
laugh in derision and let them
consolidate and “go hang”?
Surely with the weight of num-
bers and the inescapable
advances that will take place
in naval, military and aerial
science in the next decade or
so, any invaders would be able
to overcome the geologic
barriers on which “Tock
Emma” relies for protection.
Reduced to simple terms, the
whole problem can be summed-
up in “For God’s sake do
something, even if it hurts.”
The reference to the coast-
line of America was, of course,
a transcription error and
should have been 5000 miles.---
George Patterson (N.S.W.).
Australia and Asia
Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes’s
remark that he “was proud to
be an Asian... .our geographi-
cal location makes Asians of
us all,” was an unfortunate
contribution to the debate on
West New Guinea. It is dis-
turbing to find a man of his
public stature and outlook
subscribing to this false
doctrine.
Australia is not Asian —geo-
graphically, culturally or
ethnically. This is a South
Pacific land. The nearest part
of Asia —an outlying island,
itself hundreds of miles from
the Asian mainland —is a
couple of hundred miles away
from Australia’s north-west
coast. Some areas of Central
Europe are closer to the Asian
mainland than is any part of
Australia. Spain and Italy are
separated from parts of the
North African coast only by
narrow stretches of water, but
they are not therefore classed
as extensions of Africa.
Racially, Australia is almost
wholly European and pre-
dominantly British. Our poli-
tical and religious institutions
and our way of life derive from
Europe ; and most of our trade
is with Europe and th£ U.S.
Even our fauna and flora are
not, for the most part, Asian
—though some plants, birds
and animals of the Far North
have counterparts or allied
species in outlying islands of
Asia.
• Asia’s share of trade with
Australia will proba b 1 y
increase substantially in the
future, and it will be to this
country’s advantage to culti-
vate good relations with lead-
ing Asian nations. But that
is altogether different from the
claim, too often advanced
these days, that Australia is
part of Asia, and that Austra-
lians should cease to think of
themselves as Europeans.—
Farinmail (N.S.W.).


Sea-snails by the
million are ravaging
some pastures in Vic-
toria. They have
been carried in sand,
on fence posts and
barbed wire removed
from the sea-front.
Here is still another —
if unusual — risk
which the grazier has
to face. Fortunately,
the risks of set-back,
shock and loss, which
may follow the mark-
ing and tailing of
lambs with a knife,
have been consider-
ably minimised by the
introduction on the
market of Elastrator
Rubber Rings.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY IT'S SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The R.A.S.
of the Sydney
Royal, the Royal Agri-
cultural Society of N.S.W. is
governed by a council of 54
members, including the presi-
dent, deputy-president, 15
vice-presidents, treasurer and
the N.S.W. Minister for Agri-
culture, all of ‘them honorary.
The president is Sam Hordern,
third generation of his family
to hold that position. His father,
Sir Samuel, was president from
1915 to 1941, while his maternal
grandfather, Sir John See, was
president from 1898 to 1907.
The deputy-president is E. S.
Playfair, and there has been
a Playfair on the council since
the 1890's —in fact, at present
there are two members of the
family as councillors. A
number of other councillors are
also second- or third-generation
members of families who have
served on the council.
The work of the council is
decentralised among 19 com-
mittees, whose decisions are
implemented by the executive
officers: director, Lieut.-
General Sir Frank Berryman ;
assistant-secretary and accoun-
tant, G. P. Alexander (who
joined the R.A.S. in 1924);
registrar, R. C. Hanlon; and
engineer-superintendent, •C. R.
Tennant. A permanent staff of
over 100 is employed by the
“Busy, ain't it ?”
society and at Show-time the
ground-staff grows to 700.
Besides the Royal Easter
Show, the society conducts a
fatstock and carcass show and
sales, six field-wheat, six field-
maize and six pasture and
fodder championships each
year. It carries out the secre-
tarial duties of 40 breed-
societies, including the N.S.W.
Sheepbreeders’ Association,
which holds the annual Sheep
Show and ram-sales. It
arranges shows for the Eques-
trian Federation of Australia
and sponsors scholarships for
Hawkesbury or Wagga Agri-
cultural College and a travel-
scholarship.
The Agricultural Society of
N.S.W. was founded in 1822.
There is some doubt about
who was the first president or
chairman. Though Sir John
Jamison seems most likely
from the evidence available, the
Government printer, issuing a
list of office-bearers, stated
that the president was the Hon.
Barron Field, Judge of the
Supreme Court. First patron
was certainly Governor Sir
Thomas Brisbane. Vice-presi-
dents were the Rev. Samuel
Marsden, William Cox, Robert
Townson and Hannibal Mac-
arthur; treasurers, Messrs.
Riley and Walker, and sec-
retaries G. T. Palmer, Berry
and Wollstonecraft. Among
the members of the general
committee and subscribers
were John Blaxland, John
Oxley, Robert Lowe, Charles
Throsby, H. C. Antill, William
Lawson and John Horsley.
The society established a
stock-fund to bring to Aus-
tralia good stock, plants and
seeds. The first properly con-
stituted Show was held at
Parramatta in 1824. The prac-
tice of giving trophies for
certain products seems to have
been instituted at dinners. For
instance, it is recorded that in
1823 Jonas Bradley was
awarded a silver tankard for
a specimen of tobacco.
About 1837 that early
society ceased to function.
Other institutions came into
existence, and the Cumberland
Society, founded in 1843 and
revived in 1857, changed its
name in 1859 to the Agri-
cultural Society of N.S.W.
Meetings were held in Sydney,
but Shows were at Parramatta.
An exhibition in Sydney
stimulated interest in the
society and an Act of incor-
poration was passed by Parli-
ament in 1869. This was the
statutory foundation of the
present society (to which Queen
Victoria granted the title
“Royal” in 1891).
The first Show in Sydney was
held in Prince Alfred Park in
1869, lasting four days. Next
year, the centenary of the dis-
covery of N.S.W., an exhibi-
tion was held. The great
Palace Exhibition of 1879-80
grew from the determination of
the society to organise an
international Show.
The rental-charge for the
ground and Exhibition Hall at
Prince Alfred Park was too
high, so the society acquired
40 acres —“a desert of rocks
and swamp” — from the
common at Moore Park for
a rent of £10 a year. This area
was converted into the Show-
ground, and the first Show was
held there in 1882, running for
seven days. This seems to
have been the first Show held
at Easter.
The District Exhibits were
instituted in 1900, and in 1906
agricultural societies in defined
areas were grouped to make
collective exhibits.
In 1911 the Showground—
then 53 acres in extent —was
vested by Act of Parliament in
the R.A.S. A further 14j acres
were leased, and later bought,
and in 1930 another three acres
were vested in the society by
the Government, making the
present area 70-odd acres.
Dipping Losses
“Bilwon”: Apart from
swallowing the dip, sheep can
be poisoned by excessive ab-
sorption through the skin.
Modern preparations like
B.H.C. and dieldrin are prac-
tically non-poisonous, but
arsenical preparations and
lime-sulphur, the main weapons
against itch-mite, are very toxic
if swallowed.
Deaths caused by sheep
swallowing dipping - prepara-
tions can be avoided if the
animals are not hurried
through the dip. Crowding the
sheep on top of each other
means that some may be under
too long—some of the liquid
is nearly always swallowed
when the animal gasps and
struggles to free itself and
surface. Ducking the sheep
after they have been under
once, even if only for a few
seconds, can be fatal. A sheep
short of wind after its first
underwater experience will
nearly always gasp for breath
as it goes under a second
time. That *means more dip
swallowed.
Poisoning through absorp-
tion is not uncommon. The
dip can only be absorbed
while the animal is still wet,
so get the sheep dry as quickly
as possible. If animals have
been dogged or driven long
distances the rate of absorp-
tion will be increased, as the


WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.
KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
pores of the skin will be more
receptive to the dip. To lessen
losses from absorption, sheep
should -be spelled before
running them through.
Dip on a dry, sunny day.
Humid weather makes for slow
drying, and the longer the
sheep is wet, the more dip it
will absorb. If possible don't
shed the sheep after dipping.
They take too long to dry,
especially if carrying much
wool.
Graziers' Handbook
Graziers’ Handbook of
D iseases of Sheep, Beef Cattle,
Horses and Dogs: V. G. Cole,
B.V.Sc. (Grazcos Co-operative,
Ltd.). A rewrite and enlarge-
ment of the Grazcos 1955 publi-
cation, this book is set-out with
the items in alphabetical order
for quick and easy reference.
It has a good index, and an
excellent guide to diagnosis,
based on main symptoms.
Written in simple language,
and illustrated with sketches,
graphs and tables, it's a safe
one to recommend as a prac-
tical reference - guide for
farmers and graziers. Particu-
larly important is its reference
to diseases of the horses and
dogs used on sheep- and cattle-
properties.
Water and Fodder
“Billjim”: A stockowner
with plenty of conserved fodder
and ample supplies of water
should have no feeding-
worries. This is shown by
H. K. Hodgson, of Mt.
Duneed, in the Bellarmine
Peninsula (Vic.), winner of the
1958 fodder-conservation and
pasture-improvement competi-
tion. His 380-acre farm isn't
a showplace, but every part of
it gives evidence of careful
planning and management.
Hodgson believes in starting
to feed his sheep at the end of
February, whether they are
hungry or not, and keeping-on
six days a week while they will
still eat, using a mixture of hay
and silage. He starts to feed
sheep before they lose condi-
tion, and is confident of maxi-
mum lambing in March.
On the property are seven
dams, each holding over Imil.
gallons, though the area has a
rainfall of more than 20in.
annually.
Hodgson goes about pasture-
improvement systematically.
He ploughs each paddock in
turn and sows dun-peas for a
cash-crop, followed the next
year by a crop of oats for
grazing and conserved grain,
and in the third year by pasture
without a cover-crop.
Seed-mixture used is: straw-
berry-clover, lib. an acre;
Bacchus Marsh sub.-clover,
41b. to 51b. an acre ; H.I. rye-
grass, 71b. to 81b. an acre;
cocksfoot, 41b. an acre. As
a variation, he adds Phalaris
Jnberosa to some paddocks.
A high seeding-rate gives
quick establishment and pro-
vides palatable growth in early-
autumn.
New Cane-sprayer
“Belar”: A machine has
been designed and built at
Ingham (N.Q.) which will
spray growing sugarcane with
hormones and control weeds
and such vines as the giant
sensitive-plant. When tested,
it sprayed 400 acres of cane in
a fortnight.
The spraying - equipment
consists of two booms, carry-
ing 23 jets, spaced 2ft. apart,
allowing 10 rows to be sprayed
at a time and 6 acres to be
covered in an hour, in normal
conditions. The machine has a
clearance of 6ft., with the jets
positioned 8ft. above ground-
level, so that cane showing up
to 2ft. of sugar can be sprayed
successfully.
Components include a
280gal. tank which is lift,
long, 8ft. wide and 9in. deep,
and from which is suspended
a 25h.p. Chevrolet truck-engine.
A chain-drive from this gives
power to a Fordson differential
mounted on top of the tank.
From the dif. two more chain-
drives give power to the rear-
wheels—two track-wheels from
an old Fordson crawler, with
additional rims welded to take
38in. by 12in. rubber-tyres. The
front-wheels are mounted
“tripod” fashion, suspended
from the front of the tank. The
driver’s seat is attached to the
top-rear of the tank, steering
being done by an adaptation of
I.H.C. steering-equipment.
The machine, weighing about
34tons, is operated by one man,
and has a speed of 3-2-miles an
hour. It is 16ft. long, and has
a 94ft. wheel-base.
Export Beef
“Buzoe”: At Westralian
stud-cattle sales last year quite
a number of bulls did not
attract buyers at £100. Pedi-
gree isn’t everything, and some
proof of the old saying that
half the breeding goes down
the neck was shown at the
Midland Junction saleyards
When a bull of Aberdeen
Angus and Poll Shorthorn
cross was sold for the record
figure—for those saleyards—
of £115 2s. 6d. The bull —five
years old, and estimated to
dress at close on 15001b. —will,
as boned meat, go to Singapore
or to Moslem seamen. To
assure the faithful that every-
thing is kosher, so to speak,
it will be killed by Fadiq
Buksh, the accredited official
slaughterman of the Moslem
Advisory Board of Singapore,
who will mark the boned sec-
tions of about 301b. each with
an official stamp.
Mussel-scale
“North”: Mussel - scale
(Lepisdosaphes beckii), very
destructive to citrus-trees, is
particularly troublesome in
moist coastal areas. It attacks
fruit, leaves, twigs and young
branches.
Though fruit is not greatly
infested until March, the pest
often destroys twigs and,
where heavy infestation occurs,
large portions of the trees die.
The scale, usually found at
the stem-end or where two
fruit are rubbing together,
often spreads across the rind
as the fruit ripens. Heavy
infestation of fruit round the
stem causes it to turn prema-
turely yellow and drop to the
ground. Mussel-scale adheres
tenaciously to the rind, and is
hard to remove, though this
must be done. (Lemons are
less liable to attack than man-
darins and oranges.)
Unlike red-scale, the female
lays eggs, and when the young
hatch-out they cluster round
the parent, causing dense
incrustations at one point. The
insect breeds rapidly, its life-
cycle being only about nine
weeks. It produces four
generations each year.
Healthy trees do not suffer
attack like the weak and un-
healthy ; manuring, spraying
and pruning are obvious safety-
measures. Usually only ter-
minal growth and fruit of
healthy trees are infested, but
a sharp look-out should be
kept during the first three
months of the year for signs of
attack. Spraying with soap,
washing-soda and oil, or resin,
caustic-soda and fish-oil during
late summer or early autumn
has proved very effective for
controlling even heavy infesta-
tions. White-oils alone are not
recommended.
Soap, washing-soda and oil-
spray is made as follows:
Assemble ljlb. good laundry
soap, 81b. washing-soda and
ligal. white-oil with 75gal.
water. Shred the soap finely,
mixing it with the washing-
soda ; add sufficient water to
cover ; then stir over a fire until
dissolved. Empty this mixture
into the rest of the water and
stir well.
While the other ingredients
are dissolving mix the white-
oil in double its quantity of
water until emulsified ; then
add it to the soap and wash-
ing-soda. Stir the whole thor-
oughly, and use as soon as
possible. Keep the mixture


agitated all the time spraying
is going on.
The ingredients required for
resin, caustic-soda and fish-oiL
spray are 101b. resin, 31b.
caustic-soda and lflb. fish-oil,
with 40gal. water. Grind the
resin very finely, then dissolve
the caustic-soda in 2gal. water,
and bring to a slow boil. Add
the resin slowly, stirring all
the while to prevent the solids
sticking to the sides of the
container.
A cream-colored scum will
form on the surface of the
mixture, and boiling should
be continued until a clear, dark
solution is seen under this
scum. The oil is then added,
and the mixture boiled for a
few minutes longer, to make
sure no free oil is left. Add
the mixture to the 38 gallons
of water in the tank, and spray
immediately.
Before making this mixture
smear your hands well with
vaseline, to protect them from
the effects of the caustic-soda.
Asparagus
“Acacia”: Asparagus is easy
to grow, as long as the initial
preparation of the bed is
thorough. The fife of a well-
prepared bed is anything up
to 20 years or more, so it pays
to be thorough at the outset.
Choose a sunny, well-drained
position, dig it over deeply and
thoroughly early in April, and
give it an application of lime
at the rate of |lb. to the square-
yard. Allow to lie fallow for
three weeks, so that sun and
air will sweeten it, then spread
a 4in. layer of rotted manure
and 2oz. of balanced chemical
fertiliser to the square-yard
over the bed. Work this in
deeply and thoroughly.
Asparagus is a gross feeder,
and stores reserves of nourish-
ment in its thick roots, in
order to produce strong, suc-
culent shoots in the spring.
Turn the soil over deeply
two or three times at weekly
intervals, so that the manure is
incorporated into the lower
layers before planting. Two-
year-old crowns should be
planted 3ft. apart each way to
give stools plenty of room to
develop into strong plants pro-
ducing heavy crops of good
shoots.
When planting, make holes
6in. deep, and at least 1ft.
square for the stools, which
should be set with the crown
left higher than the roots.
Spread them out widely, and
work fine soil amongst them by
hand until they are well
covered. Fill-in the hole and
cover the roots to about 4in.
A 3in. mulch of rotted manure
spread over the bed will keep
the roots cool and stop
moisture evaporating. During
the first season after planting,
make no cuttings from shoots,
so that plants will become
thoroughly established.
At the end of each season the
tops should be cut off close
to the ground as soon as they
begin to turn yellow and the
seeds ripen and turn red. Give
the bed a heavy dressing of
rotted manure, and with it
spread about 4oz. of a
balanced chemical fertiliser to
each square-yard.
The second year all larger
stalks may be cut for four or
five weeks, after which all
stalks should be allowed to
mature. The plants must be
allowed to form tops if they
are to gain vigor and produce
heavy crops.
Tn the third year you can
expect a full crop, so all stalks,
large and small, may be cut
for seven weeks, and then
allowed to mature as before.
Keep to the same system from
year to year, and give a mulch
whenever the tops have been
cut off.
Cutting can begin as soon
as the shoots are well above
the ground, taking care not to
destroy young shoots. Growth
is rapid, so the bed should be
cut-over every other day at
least.
Asparagus is a maritime
plant, so an occasional light
dressing of coarse-salt will help
it on. The plants need plenty
of water, and must be kept free
of weeds.
Asparagus may be raised
from seed, though that’s a slow
process, faking three years
before stalks are ready for
gathering. August and Sep-
tember are the best months for
sowing, and the seedbed should
have full sunlight. A deep,
rich, sandy loam is best, with
seed sown thinly in shallow
drills, 2ft. apart, lin. deep and
covered with |in. rotted
manure or leaf-mould. When
about 3in. high, thin the
seedlings out to 1ft. apart. The
soil should be kept open, loose
and free from weeds. Give the
bed a light mulch in summer
and keep it well watered when
the weather is dry. The plants
will be ready for moving to
their permanent positions in
June or July.
Mary Washington is one of
the best varieties, resistant to
rust or blight.
Pasture Competitions
Farmers seem to be getting
solid value from the Queens-
land Royal National Asso-
ciation’s annual pasture-
improvement competition, in
which there are prizes of £200
and trophies for each of the
various classes.
At field-days, on the winning
farms, groups of up to 200
farmers talk-over the estab-
lishment and management of
pastures with scientists and
other farmers. Queensland
officials are convinced that
pasture-improvement is really
being sold at these gatherings
—and back-up their claim by
pointing to the new plots going
in.
Senior judges A. L. Clothier
and S. Marriott (the latter
from the Queensland Agricul-
ture Department) remarked on
the improved standard of
pasture-management since the_
first competition. If all Queens-
land's pastures were as good
as the general level of these,
they said, the quality and
efficiency of primary-produc-
tion would be greatly increased.
To even-out the advantages
of the better-rainfall country
the competition is divided into
sections based on the rainfall-
zones, and four competitions
have developed: for the over-
45in. zones, the 20in. to 45in.
zone, the under-20in. zone,
and irrigated pastures.
This year, there are more
than 100 entries. A new sec-
tion —a water-harvesting com-
petition—has drawn 39 entries
from irrigators who are con-
serving water on their pro-
perties.
Feeding and Wool
“Big Billy”. B. C. Jeffries, of
the South Australian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, lists four
of the five most common
causes of broken or unsound
wool as follows: feed too low
in protein; dry-feed insuffi-
cient ; nutrition in dry-feed
lowered by rain ; sudden
change of feed. These are all
connected with feeding. The
fifth cause is fever arising from
fly-strike.
He says that, to produce
good wool, adult dry sheep
need 5 per cent, protein in their
feed, and this can be obtained
from cereal hay. Poor, dry,
grassy growth can be low in
protein. Stubby growths
should be supplemented with
peas, lucerne or clover-hay—
a daily ration for each of 11b.
lucerne or hay, or 4-lb. peas.
Weaners and in-lamb ewes
must also have their diet
supplemented if they are to do
their job later on. Dry grazing
can be supplemented by a daily
-fib. to 41b. peas, or lib. oats
or |lb. barley or wheat, when
green-feed is available.
If dry-feed is damaged by
rain, and loses most of the
soluble nutrients, the best form
of supplement to attract sheep
is hay cut green. If left on the
green shoots thrown up by the
first rains the animals will lose
we’ght rapidly, because this
greenstuff contains a high per-
centage of water.
All feed-changes should be
made gradually over one or
two weeks. When grain
supplements are fed it is best
to begin with a daily 41b. and
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(12/3/59)
Queensland should receive good rains during April,
although the far west and far south-west districts may have
only poor rainfall. Heavy rains and flooding may occur on
the central and north coasts. Light to moderate patchy
rains are indicated for May and June.
N.S.W. may expect moderate general rains during
April, although part of the Riverina and along the Darling
may have only light falls. Heavy rains are indicated for
the central and mid-north coastal districts and part of the
Hunter River Valley, associated with cyclonic activity off
the central coast. Rainfall may be patchy in May and June,
with good rains in the latter half of the year.
Rainfall may be patchy in Victoria during April,
although reasonably good rains should occur in the central
division, Gippsland and the north-east and west-coast areas.
Light to moderate patchy rains are likely to continue, with
good rains starting in August.
Light to moderate patchy rains should be experienced
in South Australia during April, but good rains are likely
in the agricultural areas during May and June. Rainfall
may be poor in the interior.
Western Australia may have only poor rainfall during
April, although reasonably good rains are likely in the
south-west agricultural areas during May.
LENNOX WALKER


increase it by the same amount
every four or five days for a
fortnight until the sheep are
getting their daily lib. If they
scour, reduce the grain-ration
and don’t increase it again
until the trouble clears-up.
It’s sound practice to let
the sheep fill themselves on
some other feed before letting
them into cereal stubbles.
Urochloei
“San Luis Ray”: Mention
here of Urochloa (liverseed-
grass) reminds me there is Uro-
chloa merambicensis, which,
unlike others of the kind, is
perennial. A native of Africa,
it grows well in the inland
areas of North Australia. It’s
relished by all stock, and
makes a fair lawn. Frosts
whiten the leaves but leave it
still green underneath. Diffi-
culty in collecting the seed is
perhaps its worst feature,
though it will also spread by
means or runners.
Eliminating Fire Risk
“Ex-R.S.M.”: In South Aus-
tralia, swept by fires early this
year, the old story has been
repeated — some landowners
ask for trouble.
Homestead gardens sur-
rounded by hedges of cypress
which flare like celluloid, pines
and gumtrees growing right
beside the house, homes with
outer walls of weatherboard —
and quite a number of them
were burnt.
Our native eucalypts con-
stitute about the world’s worst
fire-risk. Their leaves are full
of essential oil which vaporises
in the intense heat ahead of
the blaze and flashes into flame
like petrol. Further, because
gumtree-leaves hang vertically,
they let in light and air,
encouraging a heavy under-
growth, which either has a low
moisture-content, if it is
bracken and banksia, or con-
tains resin, like the yacca and
grasstree. This results in a
fierce ground-fire even if the
tops of the trees don’t catch.
Pine-plantations are nearly
as bad as far as a top fire goes,
owing to the resin in their
needles; but because these
trees shut out light as soon as
they attain any size there is no
undergrowth. Fire will run
through the mat of needles
below tall pines, but is com-
paratively easy to check.
No matter what precautions
are taken, fires will start on a
day with a shade-temperature
of over lOOdeg. and a hot, dry
wind.
But to say that on a “Black
Friday” type of. day any type
of vegetation will burn is not
correct. Trees like the Aus-
tralian kurrajong, the Euro-
pean ash and weeping-willow
will not burn, nor will grape-
vines, plums, apples, pears,
mulberries and many others.
Time and again it has been
shown that a house surrounded
by these is well protected
against fire.
The same applies to hedge-
plants. In areas of heavier
rainfall, the coprosma, with its
sappy green leaves and stems,
free from any oil or resin,
makes a good barrier against
a grass-fire ; in drier regions,
so does the hedge of old-man
saltbush; while the old-
fashioned stone-wall round a
homestead garden has proved
itself the best protection of all
on numerous occasions.
Far better than any ploughed
break round paddocks of grass
or crop is a strip of green
lucerne, provided it is grazed
or cut close in spring to remove
growth such as barley-grass,
which will carry a fire through
it if left standing. The value
of any such break is enhanced
if on the outside it has a
double-row windbreak of trees
with non-inflammable foliage.
Planting creeks with weeping-
willows does more than
beautify a property and pro-
vide fodder when lopped during
a dry year. These trees help
to check a running grass-fire
and, in Conjunction with
ploughed breaks or strips of
iucerne along each bank, will
usually prevent a fire from
jumping the creek.
More and more properties
which have good water-
supplies are going in for an
area of spray-irrigated pasture.
The best place for this green
area is around the homestead
and outbuildings. A further
precaution, if a fire is
approaching, is to link-up the
pipes on the danger side and
start the pump, interposing a
curtain of spray.
Some districts are planning
to divide the whole area into
compartments by calling-out
every available man and all the
fire-fighting equipment to burn-
off the grass along strategically
placed roads in spring and to
make sure that there are no
danger-spots in the ploughed
or green breaks in the pro-
perties on either side.
Low insurance premiums on
well-protected properties, with
high ones, or even a refusal to
take the risk, on those which
invite trouble, might make a
big difference.
Faith in the
Future
Easter comes upon the world once more,
renewing its message of eternal hope to Christians.
It comes at a time when leaders of the
Christian Churches have shown they are disposed
to move closer together in a spirit of unity
and understanding.
This, I believe, is among the most significant
stirrings of our time; transcending all the wonders
that human exploring reveals on Earth and in the
space around us.
For what would any material prize be worth
if the Faith that is the core of our civilisation were
to go down to paganism and anti-religion.
I plead the liberty to express this feeling now
because it was my fortunate experience a few
months ago to have stood in the Church of the
Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem; at the spot where
the events of that first Easter morning were placed
to an endless time.
Around the place where Christ was laid,
venerating it according to their different rites, were
Greek, Latin, Armenian and Coptic Christians.
The devout of other sects were in the crowds of
worshippers who came to do pilgrim homage.
On the previous day in Bethlehem I had seen
a prelate of- the Russian Orthodox Church, an
aged exile who had lived many years in the Holy
Land, go up to pray in the Church of the Nativity.
And the thought that came to me at the Tomb
of Christ was this:
Here were men and women believing in the
central fact that Christ rose from this Tomb;
divided in their forms, yet one in the essence vff
their Belief.
Was there some way in which they could be
drawn together in a world where the issue now
was not one of sectional religious rivalry but of the
survival of everything they held commonly sacred?
There are many, I am sure, who will share my
wish that before another Easter Day comes up
Christianity will have been guided still closer to
that unity which I,see as the hope of the future’s
fulfilment in the Faith that flows from Easter.
H. Hastings Deening


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. ... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
r« •••••' t •••• t •«••••••••• a ••••••• • • • # •«••••
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.: \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub*
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of Life in the Bush, by
Mey rick.—6Bos.
To obtain a book written by
Rodway, one-time Government
Botanist of Tasmania, entitled either
Flora of Tasmania or Tasmanian
Flora.— 6Bo4.
Does Anybody Know?
Title and author of a one-time
best-selling book about the Donner
tragedy?
Information Supplied
From “S.H.H.”: Surely Lake
George was discovered in 1819, not
1816 (B. 25/2/’s9}? The discoverer
was Joseph Wild; in History and
Legends the late John Gale, of
Queanbeyan, gives the honor to the
Rev. Robert Cartwright, and the
date as 1813 —far too early. It’s
possible to confuse Lake George
with Lake Bathurst, which was dis-
covered by Hume and Meehan on
March 3, 1818. There has always
been controversy over the actual
sighting of Lake George by white
men.
From “Regel”: As to old-time
sailing-ships (B. 18/2/’59), inquirer
might benefit by writing to Captain
Walter F. Lee, c/o Adelaide Steam-
ship Co., Ltd., Currie Street,
Adelaide; or to Mr. M. M.
Brodie, whose present address, I
think, is c/o Mcllwraith McEacharn
Pty., Ltd., Scottish House, William
Street, Melbourne, C.l, Vic.
Information Sought
Some details of the Order of the
Star in the East ?
This international religious
organisation was founded in 1911;
by 1924 it had a world membership
of over 100,000. Persons could
become members on subscribing to
a simple declaration of principle—
namely, “We believe a Great
Teacher will soon appear in the
world, and we wish so to live now
that we may be worthy of Him
when he comes.” The Order was
formed by people who expected
the early return of Christ to the
earth. It was indirectly associated
with the Theosophical Society, and
Dr. Annie Besant was interested in
it. Sydney had a branch of the
Order; in 1924 it constructed a
large amphitheatre at Balmoral,
where the members intended to
await the second coming. The
building was completed and opened
in October, 1924, at a cost exceed-
ing £lO,OOO. Seats were sold at
prices ranging from £5 to £lOO.
Soon after the Order was founded
an Indian, J. Khrishnamurti, then
about 15 years old, was placed by
Annie Besant, president of the
Theosophical Society, at the head
of the organisation. Khrishnamurti
dissolved the Order in 1929.
* * * *
How did Ben Buckler, near Bondi
(N.S.W.), get its name ?
A. E. Martin’s One Thousand and
More Place-names in N.S.W. states
that it was named Benbecula by
Governor Macquarie “because of its
resemblance to the part of the
Hebrides from which he came.”
The name has since become
corrupted to Ben Buckler.
* * * *
When should poinsettias be
pruned ? Best way to strike cuttings
of this shrub ?
Poinsettias should be cut-back
severely as soon as the flower bracts
fall. Remove all spindly cross-
growing branches and leave the
strong limbs not higher than 4ft.
Try to make the shrubs grow
shapely, especially in the early
stages. Work a big helping of
fertiliser or stable-refuse about the
plants after the pruning—next year’s
flowering will be improved. Short
pieces of sturdy wood are most
suitable for striking. These should
be .buried in sandy soil, leaving only
two “eyes” out of the ground.
Keep the soil around the cuttings
moist; this will assist the poin-
settias to root.
“Submarine service or no—I always sleep with
my window open”
Brief Answers
A.J.L.: The air around
the earth gradually rarefies as
height is gained, until no atmosphere
exists. Atmospheric pressure and
oxygen decrease; temperature
decreases by as much as s.sdeg. F.
per 1000 ft. —a fall known as the
“lapse rate,” great in the tropo-
sphere but less in the tropopause.
The “stratosphere” is the region,
starting about eight miles up, in
which this lapse rate becomes
negligible... .A.R.8.: The wife
would only have to show that the
money was given to her freely for
her own purposes and not for the
purpose of effecting insurance on
the husband’s life. She would be
in a very much better position if
she could produce documents to
show that the gifts were made in a
proper manner. In the event of the
husband’s death it would be the
gift that reverted. Sons and daugh-
ters are included and are free of
both Federal and State duties....
E.W.: Hard to say whether the
person is entitled to anything for
the time spent in the institution.
However, the Department of Social
Services makes allowances for re-
habilitation. Write to the depart-
ment in Melbourne R.J.H.: (1)
Suggest you write to the Principal
Engineer, Department of Works,
Queensland Insurance Building, 82
Pitt Street, Sydney. (2) Stories,
articles, verse and black-and-white
drawings are paid for on accept-
ance ; other matter on receipt of
claim. Reasons given for rejection.
Australasian and South Seas sub-
jects preferred. Enclose self-
addressed envelope for possible
return... .D.W.: Judging by your
letter, your handwriting is clear
enough; make sure the MS. is
well spaced between lines, and allow
a two-inch margin on the left-hand
side. Enclose self - addressed
envelope. Verse is paid for on
acceptance M.L.L.: Our files
don’t go back that far. The verse
has so far eluded us; if it turns-
up, the words will be posted to you.
R.P.: Unable to find words
of that poem. Suggest you write
to Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
D.F.: Jingly - jangly P.J.:
Soothing as a vacuum-cleaner....
H.D.: Too much like Stevenson.
S.W.: Yes, but an Australian
setting, please... .J.D.: Nothing
new in that p10t... .G.G.: Fred is
unbelievable... .T.F.: So is the
space-man W.N.C.: It would be
nice to think that all Sydney’s
suburbs were “charming rural
areas, with parks and pleasant rows
of leafy trees”... .8.5.: Metre
elementary E.L.: On the right
track; try for a simpler approach.
K.M.: The Religious Editor
sniggered... .A.V.: “Can you
imagine a man wracked by bitter
fever-pains, groping desperately for
a chance to survive?” Well, the
man might survive, but the story
won’t... .T.F.: Better than the last
one; you still have a way to go
yet... .C.A.: Wavers uncertainly
between an essay and an article.
R.E.: The ship was scuttled.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO IVY ROSE SWAN late of 3 Hutchin-
son Street St. Peters in the State of
New South Wales—TAKE NOTICE that
JOSEPH WILLIAM SWAN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4259 of 1958
on the grounds of .your failure to comply
with a decree of the Court for restitu-
tion of conjugal rights pronounced on
the 25th day of March 1957 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 25th
May 1959 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, of 38
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN,
Registrar.
New Recordings
Organ Music
On a Coronet release, Bach :
Organ Music, Vol. 11 (KLC
593), Albert Schweitzer plays
the “Dorian” Toccata and
Fugue in D Minor (not to be
confused with the other one in
D Minor which Stokowski put
into an orchestral chocolate-
box and presented to the
millions) and three preludes
and fugues.
The jacket doesn't say which
organ is being played, but
there is a cover-photo of Dr.
Schweitzer sitting at a giant
console with batteries of stop-
tabs like sharks’-teeth. ’Way
before the end of the “Dorian”
—probably the best-performed
bit of Bach on this record—
you realise the organ is a
pretty powerful one. Schweit-
zer’s playing here is discreet
and rhythmic.
Then, after the distribution
of voices in the fugue with that
long trill-flavored subject, the
pedal enters with a thrilling
deep roll ; and a little later
the chorus-reeds add a
trumpety sparkle. Unfortun-
ately, the good impression
created by the prelude is
marred slightly by several
lapses in timing.
And, allowing for the pleas-
ing slow pace of the A Major
Prelude, there is a fumbled
note in the second initial
arpeggio. But Schweitzer’s art
is not for the casual listener ;
he demands close study, and his
very occasional technical slips
can be forgiven in view of his
many qualities.
Some listeners would debate
the reed registration in the
opening and closing sections of
the F Minor Prelude, and the
three blurred treble notes in the
Prelude might raise a purist’s
eyebrows ; but everywhere Dr.
Schweitzer’s scholarship and
breadth of style shine through.
The Fugue is one of those
rather loose, semi-mournful
compositions which differ
stylistically from such compact
works as the fugue from the G
Minor Fantasy and Fugue.
Here Schweitzer is more in-
clined to vary his tonal colors
•—although, as in the prelude,
he uses the reeds frequently.
His final build-up through
chorus-reeds and mixtures to
full organ is a masterpiece of
calculation —he shows at least
one parish-church organist
how to use, not abuse, the
swell-pedal.
In the Prelude and Fugue in
B Minor, Schweitzer again
draws the reed stops. A
middle-period work, the Pre-
lude has a hint of early toccata
style about it. One or two
technical slips here, too, but
they are partly offset by
Schweitzer’s use of a fine pedal-
stop—a compelling “woody”-
toned register, literally under-
scoring the manual chord-
scale pattern, right up to the
Tierce de Picardie ending. The
same stop appears in the intro-
spective fugue.
Several aspects of Schweit-
zer’s playing you accept as
gospel: his tempi, for instance,
and his perfectly tailored
phrasing. In the matter of
registration he contrasts with
the brilliant tone-eolorist tech-
nicians of the Continental
school—Marchal, whose Bach-
playing is so resolutely reedy
you long for the silver flutes of
a southern German instrument;
Jeanne Demessieux, who
treats Bach as a vehicle to
display her own tremendous
technique ; the American
virtuoso Power Biggs, who,
while recording on baroque
organs, is often inclined to be
showy ; Germani, who, one
feels, isn’t happy with Bach at
all. Schweitzer strides among
them, a colossus of correct
organ-playing. Anyone look-
ing for dependable perform-
ance coupled with austerely
genuine interpretation could
hardly find a better record than
this one.
»£► *J»
Stravinsky
The Rite of Spring, either
on this Coronet (KLC 2680),
with the Columbia Symphony
Orchestra conducted by Leo-
nard Bernstein, or on any
other release, isn't everybody’s
cup of tea. It is the sort of
music that obstinately refuses
to take less than one’s full
attention.
Parts of it are purely descrip-
tive, and since Stravinsky’s
subject is a pagan rite centring
on a girl dancing herself to
death anything can happen—
and does.
Though he doesn’t go as
far as Milhaud or Antheil,
Stravinsky uses a generous
coating of modern harmony.
In Part 1 (Fertility of the
Earth) there is a gentle if
fragmentary ’cello melody
which hardly has time to make
much impact before the whole
orchestra crashes into a brisk
chord-formation and marches
away bearing aloft a tattered
flag of harmony. The music is
barren yet evocative; Stravinsky
surely had some singular
thoughts about fertility. And
he seems to have been in-
fluenced by public transport,
because there is a mournful
brass prean near the end of
the first section just like an
incoming ferry.
The second section is
intended to portray the sacri-
fice : it starts in meditative vein,
but, as might be expected, you
soon find a welter of drums and
brass. This part is clever, not
only in its rhythmic structure
but in the vivid alternation of
timbre. The drums roll and
cascade like thunder, and
presently the sinister voice of
the clarinet slides over a march-
ing bass. Then the brass re-
appears, followed by drums
and timpani. Then a quiet
section . . . and so it goes. The
final shattering climax is satis-
fying in a barbarous sort of
way.
Except briefly on the first
side, when the orchestra
seems to be laboring a bit, the
playing is first-class. Like
good books, Stravinsky is apt
to please more and more with
familiarity.
Walter’s Pastoral
Right from the start of the
Pastoral Symphony (Coronet;
KLC 673) pen-man Bruno
Walter is at work with the
Columbia Symphony Orchestra,
shaping a phrase here, bring-
ing out the woodwinds, or
nudging the strings with a con-
fident double-bass attack.
He gets to the heart of
every detail, but he doesn’t
pause to watch effects his
tempo in the first movement is
easy and crisp ; so crisp, in
fact, that you have to play the
record a few times to forget the
too-widespread thought that
this symphony should be
played chastely and reverently.
After all, there’s color and
life in the Sixth, particularly in
the second movement, with
pizzicato strings embroidering
the sonorous rising theme (in
its second-last appearance
Walter shades the orchestra
off, making the melody enter
softly—quite a change from
Eugen Jochum’s good-natured
forte treatment on a D.G.G.
release). It has always seemed
to this writer that the bird-
trills near the end of this move-
ment are overdone ; still, that’s
Beethoven’s fault, not Walter’s.
So complete is Walter’s sense
of light and shade that you
find new sounds in the third
movement, mainly from the
woodwinds. The storm part in
the following movement high-
lights some neat string-playing,
prompting one to observe again
the string-control that is a
special feature of Walter’s con-
ducting.
In terms of engineering as
well as content, this version
must rank as one of the most
pleasant yet produced. And it
might help to squash some
ideas about Walter’s limita-
tions.
❖ ❖ ❖
A Musical
Columbia’s Where’s Charley?,
a musical play based on
“Charley’s Aunt,” is a bit
corny in musical style, but it’s
tons of fun. Music and lyrics
are by Frank Loesser, and,
with Michael Collins’s orchestra
in support, Norman Wisdom,
as the aunt, projects both zest
and humor.
Chorus-singing is fresh,
orchestral playing compact.
There is genuine musicomedy
depth in Terence Cooper and
Pamela Gale’s song “My
Darling,” and bounce in
'‘Make a Miracle,” with
Norman Wisdom spouting
about cabbages that fly and
the distinct possibility that a
cure will be found for the
common cold —by the British,
too!
On the reverse side Pip
Hinton has a spirited warble
about “The Woman in His
Room” ; a South American
flavor permeates “Nambuco” ;
“Once in Love \vith Amy”
brings back Mr. Wisdom with
a background beat; and the
finale starts with a repeat of
the “My Darling” song, sung
first as a solo, then snatched
by the chorus. Everything
ends happily in the best and
noisiest tradition.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
At a reception in the beautiful Queen’s
Hall of Parliament House to mark the
centenary of the Law Institute in Vic-
toria, the Premier and Mrs. Bolte and
the president of the institute, Mr. J. R.
Burt, and Mrs. Burt, received 300 guests.
With her slim-fitting frock of green-and-
gold silk Mrs. Bolte wore a lily-of-the-
valley beret. Mrs. Burt’s choice was a
black silk frock with a beige straw hat
trimmed in front with pink French roses.
With Chief Secretary Rylah was Mrs.
Rylah, whose green silk floral frock was
worn with a tiny matching curvette.
Among the guests were the Chief
Justice, Sir Edmund Herring ; the head
of the English Law Council, Mr. L. E.
Peppiatt, and his wife ; the High Com-
missioner for Pakistan, Lieut.-General
Mohammed Yousuf (he will leave shortly
to take up a similiar position in London);
Sir John Latham, Sir Charles and Lady
Lowe, Judge and Mrs. Norris, Mr.
Justice Sholl and Mrs. Sholl, Mr. Justice
Monahan and Mrs. Monahan (her pretty
hat was wide - brimmed, of pink straw
and trimmed with pink roses), and Mr.
and Mrs. A. J. Moir.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dame Pattie Menzies, who was guest-
of-honor at the first meeting of the year
held by the Victorian branch of the
Australian Women's Liberal Club, spoke
crisply and interestingly of her visit to
the Mary Kathleen uranium - field and
other remote areas in the north of Aus-
tralia. She was greeted by the president
of the club, Senator Ivy Wedgwood.
Dame Pattie looked charming in a black
silk jacket-suit and a small cap of green
leaves trimmed with white blossom.
Senator Wedgwood chose a blouson suit
of heavy navy lace and a small white
satin beret. Among those attending were
Mrs. Claude Couchman, Miss Jessie
Sutherland, Mrs. H. V. Richardson, Mrs.
R. T. Breen, Mrs. G. Dunning, Mrs.
N. G. Ibbott, Mrs. J. Crossfield, Miss
G. Burton and Miss G. Bunting.
☆ ☆ ☆
Three pretty girls, Sandra Pizzey, Helen
Dorman and Margaret Bett, made their
debut at a dance given for them by their
parents at No. f) Darling Street. Hosts
and hostesses were Mr. and Mrs. Liel
Pizzey, of Toorak ; Dr. and Mrs. John
Dorman, of Hampton ; and Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Bett, of South Yarra. As the
three girls were students at Merton Hall,
the decorative balloons were in blue and
white, the school colors. In the foyer
were large bowls of pastel-toned flowers.
The debutantes all wore white. Sandra’s
gown was of satin, the bodice draped and
strapless, the full skirt caught up with a
bow to reveal the white underskirt. Helen
chose a princess-line gown of satin bro-
cade, with a pleated panel at the back of
the skirt. Margaret’s gown of layers of
net over satin was trimmed on bodice
and skirt with guipure-lace. Each girl
carried a Victorian posy of pink rose-
buds. in tulle frills and tied with pink
satin ribbon. Guests included friends
from Invergowrie (where Sandra and
Margaret are students) and the Dental
College (where Helen is studying), Judy
Dorman, Catherine Coldham, Gail
Seyforth, Virginia Campbell, Harley
Pizzey and Norman Gengoult-Smith.
Lady Wackett, who lives in the pretty
seaside suburb of Beaumaris, is president
of a committee which persuades local
owners of contemporary homes annually
to open them to the public. On April 5
eight such homes will be open at a charge
of 2s. for each home viewed; the money
raised will go to the Brotherhood of St .
Laurence and the Judge Book Memorial
Home. Lady Wackett is also busy col-
lecting for the proposed Sandringham
Memorial Hospital. With her husband,
Sir Laurence Wackett, Lady Wackett is a
life-member of the Australian-American
Association.
A dansant organised by Mrs. Charles
Davidson (president) and her committee
to raise money for the Thornbury
Opportunity Youth Club was held in the
lovely garden of the Toorak home of
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Pistermen. It began
with tea and dancing in a large marquee
and went on into the night, when colorful
fairylights lit -up the garden. Mrs.
Davidson chose a frock of avocado-
green taffeta which featured a deep
pleated hem. Members of the commit-
tee present were Lady Richardson, Lady
Connolly, Mrs. George Griffith, Mrs.
Leo Curtis, Mrs. Bill McGowan and
Mrs. Lance Reichstein. Guests included
Mrs. James Buchanan (she is president of
the women’s group working for the
Alfred Hospital Appeal), Dr. and Mrs.
Dugald Donald, Mr. and Mrs. R.
Featherston, Mr. and Mrs. John Warlow,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Osborn, Mr. and
Mrs. A. J. Atkinson, Mr. and Mrs. Alec
Finlay and Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Morrison.
☆ ☆ ☆
Ever since the Wool Ball Committee
was formed the energetic group of young
people who comprise it have worked hard
for the Ramsay Mailer Opportunity
Youth Club. They have organised
various successful functions, including
road-blocks, a method of collecting
money from passing motorists which
involves much time and planning, with
members staffing various points around
the city. Now the time has come for
the committee’s White-and-Gold dinner-
dance, to be held at the Dorchester, in
Alexandra Avenue, on April 3. It’s five
guineas for a double-ticket, and these may
be obtained from Mrs. Richard Felton
(JX4036), Ann Curtis (20 1341) or
Caroline McAdam (94 6093).
# V V
The Varsity Vanishing Party, a
scheme for raising money used in Sydney
to bring-in funds for the Opera House,
has been put into action in Melbourne
by Lady Paton, wife of the Vice-
Chancellor of Melbourne University.
Lady Paton gave a party at her home
and invited 11 guests. Each guest will
now be a link in the “chain-party” idea ;
they will be hostesses to guests who, in
turn will then give a party. And so it
will go on until, Lady Paton hopes, a
mammoth sum will be raised for the
University Building Fund. Guests at
Lady Paton’s party were the Premier’s
wife (Mrs. Henry Bolte), the Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. F. W. Thomas), Mrs.
Pizzey (who brought the scheme from
Sydney), the chairman of the women’s
committee of the building fund (Mrs.
E. K. Smart), Lady Fullargar, Mrs. D.
Cochrane, Dr. Una Porter, Mrs. Wesley
Jnce, Mrs. Ronald Marriott, Mrs. lan
Connell and Mrs. Don Hallenstein. Each
guest contributed five shillings to the fund
and promised to give a party for ten
guests who will be required to give a party
for nine guests, and so on. The scheme
has great possibilities as a money-spinner.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Victoria League clubrooms were
decorated with autumn foliage and
hydrangeas when the Council of British
Commonwealth Societies arranged a
reception in honor of Sir Gilbert Laith-
waite, the Permanent Under-Secretary of
State for Commonwealth Relations.
More than 80 guests were present,
and they included members of the excu-
tive committee of eight societies. They
were welcomed by Mrs. Guy Bakewell
(chairman) and the honorary secretary
(Margaret Williamson). Eighty guests
were also present at a cocktail - party
given the following day for Sir Gilbert
by the U.K. Information Officer (Mr.
John Carr-Gregg) and his wife at their


Toorak home. Sir Edmund and Lady
Herring were there, as were Mr. and Mrs.
L. J. Dooling, Minister for Education
John Bloomfield and Mrs. Bloomfield,
Sir Owen and Lady Dixon, Sir Kingsley
and Lady Norris, Mr. and Mrs. Guy
Bakewell and Lady Teasdale, who was
accompanied by her daughter Jane.
SYDNEY
The Royal Easter Show certainly
pumps new life into this city. The arrival
of the fine, bright weather has coincided
this year with the arrival of the country
and inter-State visitors, and their presence
here seems to make life go at a livelier,
more cheerful pace.
V V V
It is not only that the attire of the
country people adds color to the city ;
the riding - outfits, the broad - brims, the
casual smartness of the men's dressing,
the well-turned-out look of the women
(no sloppy sandals and stockingless legs
for countrywomen in town!), but also
the way they seem to be meeting people
they have not seen for a long time, the
way. they gather in little groups in the
streets, laughing, greeting, introducing
and moving-off in a gust of friendliness
to celebrate someplace (apparently), that
all cheers one up so.
V V V
The Show itself is as lively as ever.
People still congregate in dense crowds
round the free demonstrations (“I love
a magsman,” said one spectator happily).
The gadget-man now has many imitators,
all with a good following, and demon-
strations of skill, such as broom-making
by blind ex-servicemen, or of knowledge,
such as the Technical Education explana-
tions of deadly insects, are great draw-
cards. Overheard near this last-mentioned
exhibit was the remark: “Will we try
to push in here, love? They’ve got a rat
cut up!”
V V V
It is almost impossible to get near the
iced-cake display. Mrs. Chard’s winning
entry was of a book with a delicately
decorated cover ( Mutiny on the Bounty),
a white sailing-ship and two white plume-
pens. There was a much-admired modern
house with blue Venetians and roses on
the car-port, a delightful Arctic scene
with penguins, and an 18th-century lady
with a petit-point chair. This petit-point,
by the way, seems to be the new fashion
in cake-icing.
☆ ☆ ☆
In the ring-events the polocrosse was a
new attraction. Crack teams from Men-
dooran and Ranger’s Valley (who won
the match) thrilled spectators with their
horsemanship and showed many this
exciting Australian game for the first
time.
☆ ☆ ☆
The attending crowd at the Show is a
sight in itself, and this year the cotton
skirts worn by the girls were decorated
with such things as cats and veteran-
cars, fruit and impressionist-paintings,
Aztec-designs, seagulls and maps of the
world. Newcomers to the crowd were
the Billy Graham Crusaders (wearing
their badges) and delegates to Ecafe, the
latter looking rather bewildered by the
hula-dolls and the clowns, the knitting-
machines, the balloons with noses, the
leis (predominant this year), the monster
bags, the pigmy women, the cyclamen-
colored stoves, the chips, the popcorn,
the waffles, the flagged ferris-wheel, the
doors and windows opening and shutting,
the wool-mats with tiger-patterns, and all
the rest of it.
One of the Easter engagements is that
of Judith Anne Beville to John Brand.
She is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. N.
Beville, of Bellevue Hill, and John the
son of Mr. and Mrs. S. Brand, of Toorak
(Vic.). The engagement was announced
on Judith’s return from a six-weeks’ trip
to Honolulu; it will be celebrated with
a high-tea and dancing for 200 guests
at her home on Easier Sunday. Photo
by Norton Trevaire.
The Peter Pan Ball opened the Easter
festivities and really marked the begin-
ning of the dancing-season. Held at
Prince’s in aid of the Peter Pan Kinder-
garten, it was really smart, the show-place
for the 1959 dress-up evening-clothes.
There were quite a number of short
dresses this year, president Mrs. Norman
Hill choosing this style in floral pattern.
But the outstanding line was the Empire,
the prettiest example of which was worn
by youthful Mrs. Dugald Munro. This
was of champagne-colored silk-net over
taffeta, with matching lace applique
defining the high waist and the long skirt
which swept to a slight train at the back.
Another striking example was Mrs. Robin
Dalton’s red-and-white-striped dress with
long wing-scarf crossing over at the back.
White was the favorite color worn,
its devotees including Mrs. George
Falkiner, Mrs. Baillieu Myer, Mrs. Bruce
Campbell and (of course) Sabrina, who
arrived after the theatre accompanied by
Mr. Noel Vincent (Mrs. Vincent, now
abroad, suggested this, one was informed).
Distinguished guests at the ball included
Lady Carrington and Lady Clarke, who
with Mrs. Sam Hordern (very pretty in
white taffeta patterned with huge roses)
judged the dancing-competition.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Garden Club was well represented
at the lectures given at David Jones’
restaurant by Mrs. Constance Spry,
Britain’s top flower-arranger, who super-
vised the flower-decorations for the
Coronation in Westminster Abbey in
1953. Saw Mrs. Arthur Davis and Mrs.
E. G. Waterhouse at the lectures, doubt-
less very interested in the contrast
between our own, rather airy style of
flower-decoration, which follows the
Japanese tradition, and the daring massed
effects which Mrs. Spry and her assistant
Mrs. Sheila Mac Queen created, as well as
the embroidered, floral, flounced or raffia-
fringed tablecloths, which are something
new to us.
i ☆ ☆ ☆
Then, of course, there was St. Patrick’s
Day, which was celebrated with the
delightful evening-party given each year
by the Aisling Society. Held at the Hotel
Metropole this year, the party sped
merrily by with wit and song, the high-
light being a reading of Lady Gregory’s
play “The Rising of the Moon,” with
lawyer James Meagher and actor Gerry
Duggan in the main roles. Secretary
Mary Hegarty was a charming hostess
to about 70 guests, and Rev. Father N.
McNally included this wise warning in
his speech, “The day of the stage-
irishman is past, but watch-out that the
writers of today don’t put a stage-
Australian in his place!”
☆ ☆ ☆
Behind the recently - published book
February Dark, by Anne von Bertouch,
is a story of adversity surmounted and
dream fulfilled. Mrs. von Bertouch (she
was formerly Anne Whittle) and her
husband are well known in physical-
education* circles of this State and in
Tasmania, where Roger von Bertouch
was Supervisor of Physical Education.
Anne herself was responsible for organis-
ing the first national-fitness camp for
schoolgirls at Broken Bay, and was a ,
member of the National Fitness Cam-
paign’s first flying-squad.
Her book is about the stupendous task
she and her husband had in pioneering
a wild hill on the shores of Myall Lake,
80 miles north-east of Newcastle, a spot
where primitive conditions are now
rapidly changing and where a new scenic
coast-road is bringing many amenities.
Their adventures in tomato - growing,
house-building and prawning in their
lonely lake-country are at the heart of
the book.


“hunter” sound like “hinter” and
“winter” sound like “wunter,” there is
nothing ludicrous about it, no harm
is done.
But when he rhymes “cattle” with
“wattle,” badly, close together, with-
out intervening correspondences that
might modify the clash of it, he is
making a pair that, if not particularly
displeasing, can sound ridiculous, and
when he puts “taller” with “shallow”
and “watcher” with “creature” (making
“shaller” and “creecher”!) he is giving
his authority to some very undesirable
corruptions.
It would be better if Rowbotham
wrote these pastoral poems, where his
deepest feelings are not engaged and
his intuitive feeling for rhythm does
not emerge, in strict measure and strict
rhyme.
But, for all that, his world of bulls
and kookaburras, hawks and apostle-
birds, rivers, lush mountains and dry
plains, Queensland earth and Queens-
land legend, is a pleasant world to walk
in. He always writes about it thought-
fully and with compelling affection;
often enough, as at the end of the
poem about the old town that wanted
to walk off and camp in the hills, he
writes with precision and clarity; and
sometimes, as in “The Four Drovers”
and “Mullabinda,” he sets down a
story of the old days with memorable
force and feeling. You can fault the
pastoral poems everywhere in tech-
nique but not in atmosphere.
D. S.
Skeletons in the Safe
Although there are doubtless some
communities in which it is counted to
a man’s credit to have had a father
hanged for murder or a brother shot
while robbing a poor-box, most
families are discreetly reticent about
such matters until several generations
have passed. What may be deemed
shameful in a parent or brother
becomes a mere peccadillo when
related of a great-great-grandfather.
Writer is prompted to this reflection
by the discovery that directors of the
National Bank of Australasia—an
esteemed institution which not only
looks after “The Bulletin’s” deposits
and withdrawals, but also performs the
same functions, on a miniature scale,
for himself—at one period carried out
their duties with such “incompetence
and misconduct that the future of the
bank was in doubt.” They borrowed
for themselves far more than they
were legally entitled to borrow; they
allowed overdrafts on insecure mining
shares and lost a fifth of the share-
holders’ capital.
This little reign of mismanagement
came to an end in 1860 with the
exposure and resignation of the direc-
tors concerned. These gentlemen were,
in a business sense, the great-grand-
parents of the present board of direc-
tors, and it may be taken as sympto-
matic of the maturity and soundness of
the bank that its present administrators
see no reason to gloss over the misdeeds
of their great-grand-directors.
In commissioning Geoffrey Blainey
to write the history of their bank, the
directors of the National gave him full
access to the bank’s records and asked
only that the story should be “fairly
and truly presented.” The result is
Gold and Paper (Georgian House),
which, in covering the first hundred
years of the National (founded in Mel-
bourne in 1858), also gives a lively
picture of the general banking scene
in Australia during that period.
Early banking had picturesque
figures like John O’Shanasy, first gover-
nor of the Colonial Bank, who, when
false rumors started a run on his bank,
pushed his way into the midst of the
crowd in the banking chamber,
addressed by name several customers
he recognised and told them loudly to
“take their dirty money” and not come
near the bank again. The Colonial
survived that rush by 60 years and
amalgamated with the National in
1918.
Alexander Gibb, the virtual founder
of the National, is more a spectre than
a skeleton. Except that he lived at
St. Kilda, nothing is known of him
before 1855, when he promoted the
Colonial Bank, with the apparent
object of becoming its general-manager.
Passed over by the directors, he then
promoted (with considerable difficulty)
the National, but was again denied the '
g.m.’s chair. Third time might have
been lucky for Gibb, but his European
and Australian Banking Company
never reached the stage of requiring a
manager, and Gibb disappeared from
Australian banking history.
Daniel Hughes, who became first
general-manager of the National on
the say-so of Andrew Cruikshank, the
first chairman, was no spectre, but a
self-confident young Irishman whose
first action was to revise the bank’s
Deed of Settlement so as to make his
own removal from office a very diffi-
cult matter.
Another substantial figure of the
early period was Abraham Scott,
founder of the Adelaide branch, who
pursued an independent line and often
seemed to be on the verge of seceding
from the parent bank in Melbourne.
The bank’s early years of turbulence
lasted down to 1872, when Francis
Grey Smith became general-manager,
not long after a three-way struggle
among the Adelaide, Melbourne and
London managements had culminated
in the dismissal or resignations of two
directors and two general-managers.
Under Grey Smith, whose favorite
word was “No,” the National entered
on an era of expansion—in his first
eight years he opened 26 branches and
agencies in Victoria alone, most of
them in small country towns. One of
these branches, Euroa, was honored in
1878 by a visit from the Kellys, who
helped themselves to £2060, and, to
cover their getaway, kidnapped the
manager, Robert Scott, his two assist-
ants, his wife, mother-in-law, seven
children and two servants.
The expansion in Victoria was more
than matched in numbers but not in
judgment, by the swarms of branches
opened in South Australia by the
Adelaide directors —many of them in
townships of fewer than 100 people.
These were bowled-over like skittles
when drought hit the wheatlands in
the 1880’s. It was in this period that
Melbourne succeeded in clipping the
wings of the Adelaide board, perman-
ently reducing its power.
Grey Smith guided the bank through
the land-boom of the 1880’s, distrusted
speculation in land and would have no
part in it—nor in the mining-scrip
boom at the end of the decade, though
his confidential clerk “was so dazzled
by the profits to be won in silver shares
that he embezzled funds with growing
energy.”
Land-banks and building-societies,
rather than the banks of issue, were
financing the boom. “In 1888 Mel-
bourne alone had 49 building-societies,
six mortgage banks and at least 14
property companies (many of which
called themselves banks) competing for
deposits and capital with which to
build a mightier city.” When the
boom burst 41 of these institutions
failed in a little more than a year, and
in the panic that followed shareholders
and depositors alike lost faith even in
the strongest banks.
Blainey thinks the panic which bore
down solid institutions like the
National, along with the frailer sisters,
might have been averted had the Asso-
ciated Banks realised the danger in
time and had the Patterson Govern-
ment in Victoria displayed the leader-
ship of the Dibbs Ministry in New
South Wales. i
The 1893 crash is no skeleton in the
National’s vault —the bank reopened
after eight weeks, reconstructed and
ultimately honored all its obligations
—but its spectre haunted the Australian
banking system for decades. It cer-
tainly showed its influence in the
cautious policy of Ernest Wreford
(chief-manager of the National from
1912-32), when, for the second time in
his banking lifetime, depression hit
Australia in 1930.
With institutions as with men, adven-
tures and romance belong to youth,


not maturity, and the second half-
century of the National gave its his-
torian much staider material than the
first. In recent years the bank has had
to get its skeletons by adoption —the
most grisly being Edward Drury,
whom it inherited when it absorbed
the Queensland National Bank eleven
years ago. Drury, general-manager of
Q.N. for 25 years, and a colonel in the
militia, died in Brisbane in 18%,
highly respected and regarded as a
model of integrity. His successor found
that the bank, which on the strength of
balance-sheets prepared by Drury had
paid-out £40,000 in dividends the
previous year, was. in fact, hopelessly
insolvent—“even if the shareholders
lost every penny of their capital the
deficit would still be £1.253.000.” With
Government help the bank survived,
but Drury’s skeleton rattled for a long,
time, even though John Norton alleged
in “Truth” that the coffin that Brisbane
had given a military funeral in reality
contained nothing but a case of stones.
Leslie McConnan. National's chief-
manager, 1935-52, made a departure
from the latterday pattern of staidness
when he enthusiastically took the lead
in Victoria in opposing the Chifiey
Government’s bank - nationalisation
bills. Judging by the current debates
on banking bills, that is one spectre
that has not been entirely laid.
J. B.
Robert Graves Again
As usual in a Robert Graves book,
and as the title sufficiently indicates,
the fare is varied in his Steps: — Stories,
Talks, Essays, Poems, Studies in
History (Cassell).
Believing that poetry should be clear
and that in style it should correspond
with the way the poets themselves
would talk. Graves has never had
much time for certain contemporary
writers, and says why in a way which
this reader finds both compelling and
amusing. Wordsworth and Milton also
come off rather badly in this latest
book; though some readers would
disagree with Graves’s dislike of all
pure ornament in poetry and feel that
allowances might be made for the con-
ventions of any given “age.”
The book includes four amusing
short-stories; and some fascinating
reconstructions and interpretations of
various mythographic and historic
writings and artefacts.
There is the disclosure that Caitlin
Thomas was a second-cousin once
removed (or some such) of Graves’s,
and some observations as to Thomas’s
behavior which at least answer some
of the questions one had asked after
reading “Dylan Thomas in America.”
Yes —there were people who so little
subscribed to the ballyhoo that they
finally jacked-up on having a drunk of
the most disgusting sort foisted upon
their hospitality in the sacred name of
poetry. Norman Cameron was one
of them and replied to Dylan’s “shock-
ing accusations” after he had ejected
him forcibly from his wrecked flat with
a Miltonic sonnet, quoted here in full,
which is as polished and damning as
one would expect from his translations
of Villon.
As for Graves’s own poems here,
some are slight. They scarcely seem to
measure-up to his own exacting
standards. But then one renews
acquaintance with “The Naked and
the Nude,” which says the last word
to nasty-minded critics of lusty art.
N. K.
A Piece of Topside
Quite early in Topside (Heinemann)
J. B. Priestley points out that he is not
writing about cuts of meat: “You can’t
eat Topside. Though perhaps it can
eat you.”
Topside, the dust-jacket says, is
Priestley’s “brand-new name for a
brand-new thing.... that is now run-
ning England.” It is a “power organ-
ism” which “appears to represent
almost everything except itself,” but
actually “stands for nothing except
itself.” Its members come from all
classes and both political parties, so
they can’t be voted out.
They are the anonymous, amoral
organisation - men. They preach
religion, patriotism and loyalty to the
Crown, but they believe in nothing
except getting power and keeping it. As
far as possible they control politics,
culture and journalism. They even
encourage rebels, provided they are
imitation rebels and not real ones who
tell people “what to hit and how to
hit it.” They are, in fact, getting
control of all the means of manipulat-
ing people and staying on top.
Because they believe in nothing they
are not creative. Indeed they are anti-
creative: they distrust bold, original
thought, and smother it with their
cynical conformism. If Topsiders stay
on top for many more years they will
ruin England. Something, quite
clearly, has got to be done about it:—
If I’d my way —and I needn’t give
you the odds against my having my
way —everything that Topside’s sup-
posed to stand for would be ruth-
lessly examined and then, most of it,
shot at. Then Topside would either
be compelled to believe in something
or be shot to pieces. If it believed in
something, then its character might
change ; and if it were shot to pieces,
then at least we’d be rid of it.
No doubt Topside is a real thing and
ought to be disturbing. Perhaps in
itself it is disturbing. But Priestley’s
idea of it is not. This is probably due
in some measure to the way he presents
it. It is gradually built up in a
dialogue between a patiently wise old
bird who is a radical and progressive
and sees Topside in ail its menace, and
a fresh young chap called Nigel who
is naively on the side of every reigning
angel. Besides filling a short essay out
to slim-volume length, this device gives
a slight feeling of unreality.
Then there is the fact that the idea
isn’t altogether new. George Orwell
noticed the beginnings of it; and there
has been an awareness of its growth,
especially as it affects politics and
Royalty, in some of Malcolm Mug-
geridge’s “New Statesman” articles.
Priestley has given it a name, but his
analysis of it goes neither deep nor
far.
In fact, he doesn’t give you a very
clear idea of either what to hit or
how to hit it.
J. A.
Reviewed Briefly
Fenner’s Kingdom: Paul Norwood
(Heinemann). The operations of a
firm of wool-merchants in Bradford
are observed with academic detach-
ment by an ex-University don who has
launched himself into the bustle of
commerce in a fit of pique. As a first
novel it has promise, especially in its
moments of humorous perception. Its
faults are that it is too light-handed,
the background too sketchy and the
situations not thoroughly worked-out.
* * * *
The Worst English Poets: John R.
Matthews (Wingate). He has chosen
really poor verse, mainly from last
century; and for that reason,
“You alone of all those, the good
Dolphin aboard,
Are saved from the pitiless seas”;
With thankful emotion through tears
he exclaims,
“Then mother’s been praying for
„ _ 99
me,
has not the genius that makes imita-
tions of bad verse by a master like
Belloc so amusing:—
Hail, Britain, Mother of the Brave
and Free.
Who beat Napoleon, and gave birth
to me!
Although there is a hint of great-
ness in this kind in:—
Species of ancient animals
And plants are somewhat rare,
Whilst many have become extinct,
As their remains declare.
It is a nice little book to handle,
worthy a better fate.


NEW longer-life
HOME-LIGHTING BATTERY
6 RO
eliminates
hydrometer testing!
Inbuilt floating gravity balls that indicate
the state of charge of the cells at all times
are a special feature of the new ERG
TYPES 6HLS-13 6-volt and 4HLS-13
4-volt Home-Lighting Batteries.
Suitable for all home-lighting instal-
lations (a 32-volt set would require
four 6-volt and two 4-volt units)*.
Capacity 1 1 0 ampere hours.
Attractive, transparent polystyrene
container enables you to SEE the
acid level.
Double insulation (including glass
wool) minimises shedding, ensur-
ing longer life.
Jfegtfl
R 3
GUARANTEED for 3 YEARS
ERG BATTERIES PTY. LTD.
156 GOULBURN STREET.
DISTRIBUTED BY:—
SYDNEY. M A 6188.
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - SYDNEY
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - BRISBANE
32 Barry Parade. ’Phone 2-6565.
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty. Ltd. MELBOURNE
200 Latrobe Street. FJ 1 155.
Erg Batteries (S.A.) Pty. Ltd. ADELAIDE
13-15 Ackland Street. ’Phone W 744
Erg Distributors - - - - LAUNCESTON
12 Cameron Street. ’Phone 1950.
J. R. Roe & Company - - DARWIN
Cavenagh Street, ’Phone 761,
Walter Sully & Co. Pty. Ltd. - - - BROKEN HILL
404 Argent Street. ’Phone 2388.
The ttrut €>ft
