

The Bulletin
was® mm
Wednesday, October 14, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Kojristeriid in Australia Tor'Vransiiiission l>.v post as a newspaper.
A WINE WEEK FEATURE


BOOK Hl>T 10 K, Box 2671, G.1’.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us And it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
THE NEW ISSUE OF OVERLAND contains
an extract from the banned “Borstal Boy"
as well as being mainly devoted to Queensland
writing. Brisbane and the Bush, in honor of
the Queensland Centenary. Don't miss Vance
Palmer on Steele Itudd. Ten bob for four
issues to Editor, Overland, G.P.O. Box !*Sa,
Melbourne.
The Red Page
A NEW GUINEA NOVEL
In an introductory note to his first
novel, Young Man of Talent (Cassell),
G. R. Turner, a newcomer to Aus-
tralian fiction, writes: —
Though the scene is the New
Guinea of 1943, this is not,
essentially, a war novel. It contains
no plea for peace or cure for
conflict, and little of gallantry, it
is a story about people.
The plot could, with minor
emendations, have been played out
against a background of a Queens-
land cattle-station or an Antarctic
expedition.
That should be enough to arouse any-
one’s interest. Could it be true? One
moves on to check-up. It is not quite
true. The implication that the story
has been simply stretched across a
convenient frame does the author less
than justice, for he has achieved a
striking unity of story and background;
and though the story could indeed
have been played-out against other
backgrounds, it would need more than
“minor” changes. As played here it
seems to have found particularly favor-
able ground in the special conditions
of Army life in war-time, and,
although the author is very careful to
give a sympathetic picture of those
conditions—particularly of the chain of
command —the tragic outcome might
be said to contain at least an implicit
comment on them.
In the words of one of the charac-
ters, the essence of the story is “the
intelligent man’s potential for doing
harm.” Most of the action takes place
in a mountain camp behind the lines
between Wau and Salamaua. The
central figure, Scobie, is a studious,
introspective, literary sergeant who.
having seen much action, is now tired
of the war and wants only to outlive
it in safety. The sergeant in charge of
the camp, Scobie’s friend and
conscience, sees this and tries to shake
him out of it; but he is accidentally
killed before he can do more than
awaken Scobie to his need for action.
Stricken with grief and self-accusa-
tion, Scobie turns on Private Payne,
a new arrival at the camp. Powerful,
vicious, cunning, insolent and brutal,
Payne is a challenge to Scobie’s
exacerbated personality. Scobie decides
to tame him and turn him into a good
soldier. Ignoring what to others with
less subtle minds is obvious —that
Payne isn’t worth it; is, in fact, a
danger to the platoon—Scobie works
on him. defeating and controlling him
with trick after mental trick until he
is a sort of weapon in Scobie’s hands.
Scobie, one soon sees, is as vicious
intellectually as Payne is physically—
to complete his conquest of Payne he
nearly brings disaster to a routine
patrol under another man’s command.
Into this situation walks the new
platoon-commander, Tolley, a young
lieutenant who finds in the Army a
moral and emotional certainty denied
him in ordinary life, a hard-covered
handbook man who immediately
decides that Scobie is inefficient and
Payne must be got rid of. He
antagonises the whole platoon, which
is soon torn between dislike of him,
hatred of Payne and distrust of
Scobie’s behavior. Scobie shatters
Tolley’s needed certainty by setting
Payne against him. tormenting him to
such effect that when the platoon goes
into action Tolley’s nerve cracks and
Payne is forced to shoot him to save
Scobie. Seeing himself responsible for
Tolley’s death. Scobie cracks, too.
ruined by intellectual pride, hatred and
guilt. One remembers the warning of
Scobie’s old friend: —
“Keep on splitting moral hairs
and you’ll eventually ruin a real
action—a blood-and-guts action —
by treating it as a philosophic
problem instead of the thing it is.
You might even get a few of those
men killed on whose behalf you
don’t want to make ill-timed dis-
coveries of yourself.”
The author charts the contours of
this struggle through personality and
rank as skilfully as he blocks-in the
vast New Guinea mountains with their
thick wrappings of jungle and their
seams of slushy track, and the clouds
of tragedy gather behind the struggle
as oppressively as those that drift and
rain over the mountains; but he tends
also to spin complexities around
simple actions and to go rummaging
about in his characters’ subconscious,
often merely ticketing his discoveries
with such textbook phrases as “defence-
mechanism.” “substitution,” “compen-
sation,” “repression,” “adjustment,”
etc.
And. like Scobie, he seems to split
a few too many moral hairs. At the
end, for example, he is at some pains
to define the guilt of Scobie and of
the h.-q. officer who saw it all develop-
ing and failed to stop it. Here a little
windy rhetoric creeps in. partly defeat-
ing the author’s purpose. Wouldn't it
have been better to have simply
described what happened and let the
reader work it out for himself? One
feels that the author could learn some-
thing in this regard from Nigel
Balchin a writer he somewhat
resembles.
Still, the people are mostly very real,
and their moral entanglement is absorb-
ing and vital enough to carry the book
easily over these bumps. For a first
novel it is no small achievement.
J. A.
Lionel Lindsay's Poems
What an amazing flowering of a
family-tree there has been in the
Lindsays of Creswick. Victoria:
Lionel with his etchings, watercolors
and woodcuts; Percy with his exquisite
little landscapes; Ruby with her
sparkling pen-drawings; Daryl with
watercolors; Norman with everything
under the sun. Jack Lindsay, in the
second generation, a poet, scholar and
novelist; Philip a novelist and bio-
grapher; Raymond an artist; Jane a
novelist; Peter (Percy Lindsay’s son) a
landscapist in oils; and. inevitably
drawn into the family flowering. Rose
Lindsay. Norman’s wife, the author of
two excellent books of memoirs which
for some obscure reason have not yet
found a publisher.
And now. in his 84th year, here is
Lionel again, emerging as a poet!
It cannot be said that the verses in
Discobolus (Cheshire), most of which
have been concealed since the begin-
ning of the century, will now burst
upon the public with any major explo-
sive force. Where they purport to be
most forcible, as in some of the attacks
on Christianity, some political sonnets
about Franco’s Spain and some dia-
tribes against modern art. they sutler
from an overemphasis which, as always,
weakens them. And where they are at
their best, simple and melodious, prais-
ing love, earth and the Greeks, they are
not so much an individual statement as
an exercise in the style and moods of
the ’Nineties, based on a variety of
models from Swinburne to McCrae.
They reflect, with a pleasing
nostalgia, the period in Australian
writing when wine, roses, despair,
satyrs and centaurs were all the go;
and if there is not so much wrong
with a satyr as a poetic symbol as
some contemporary critics seem to
think—after all. it doesn’t really differ
very much from the more tormented
items of Greek mythology which some
of the most respectable modern writers
are using—it still needs to be a strong
satyr to come alive.
But here and there in Lionel Lind-
say’s verses you get a picture of
Sydney or Melbourne that comes
(Continued on page 74)


INTERNATIONAL AAIB2 for
Prime Mover Power...
Power Steering Standard Equipment
Champion of the prime-movers, the big International AA-182 is showing operators a
better way to handle their tandem-axle semi-trailers.
The International AA-182’s hydraulic power assisted steering is standard equipment.
This gives terrific control and manoeuvrability for semi-trailer work; particularly useful
when backing or in case of front tyre blow-outs. .It gives practically effortless steering
but retains the necessary “feel of the road”.
The International AA-182’s mighty power plant, the Australian Blue Diamond 282, is
an engine that is designed and built to satisfy the long-distance men in every way. Rated
horsepower 34.8, maximum brake H.P., 148 at 3,800 r.p.m. and useable maximum
torque of 243.5 lb. ft. at 1,800 r.p.m. are performance facts that tell
their own story. Compression ratio of 6.8 to 1 allows maximum output
on economical fuels. A full flow oil system ensures top bearing
performance over a long life of hard work.
New heavy duty 7,000 pound ground capacity front axle and 18,000
pound capacity, 2-speed rear axle, heavier front springs, all add up
to greater potential for profit.
For new prime-mover power, now is the time to see your nearest
International Dealer or IH Sales Office about the International AA-182.
piin
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT324/36


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 14, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4157
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
ANOTHER LABOR DEBACLE
■pOR any Government in Britain to
win three elections in a row is
something outside the experience of
history. But for any Government to
fight three elections, in a row with so
weak an Opposition was also without
precedent.
There was a period in 1956-57 when
Labor might have won on the basis of
shock - tactics and shock - emotions
generated outside the United Kingdom
at the time of Suez, but the recovery
of the Government under its new
Prime Ministership (and particularly
under the financial guidance of a down-
to-earth Chancellor of the Exchequer,
whose results were self-evident in the
growing strength of sterling and the
revival of British trade) was in itself
a miracle.
One thing which the Briton appreci-
ates is fact-facing finance on the one
hand and political guts on the other.
The Macmillan Cabinet and its fol-
lowers showed both in domestic poli-
tics as in international affairs. Also,
the electorate appreciates a Govern-
ment backed by a majority made of
genuine material, which makes no
false pretentions and does no idle
boasting or wild promising.
The Macmillan Government has
shown itself to be a Government typi-
cal of the electorate, given to practical
things and with little inclination to
mistake “isms” for realities. If it has
long-hairs, they are well controlled;
whereas the Labor party largely con-
sists, as in Australia, of theorists and
visionaries and careerists —every year
more and more of the latter. It also
has a dominant section which is made-
up of the pet political gladiators of
particular unions, sent to Parliament
at the expense of those unions to act,
in effect, as lobbyists for their ideas
rather than as electorate representa-
tives. Out of the candidates represent-
ing Labor at the poll no fewer than
.158 were of this variety.
Of the general army of candidates
submitted by Labor, which contested
nearly every seat, the run-of-the-mill
nominees were not horny-handed toilers
or even unionists. An analysis of the
professions of Labor aspirants showed
how small was the proportion of men
who had toiled, or were toiling, with
their hands when they accepted nomi-
nation. Barristers, careerists from the
older universities and people engaged
in various kinds of publicist work
formed a very large part of the corpus
of the Opposition’s offering of talent.
It was scarcely inviting to the work-
ing electorates, and it was no wonder
that there was a general tendency to
reject it, especially as the Labor pro-
gramme was marked by a disingenu-
ousness and insincerity which were
easily measurable through compari-
son of the record of Mr. Gaitskell as
Chancellor of the Exchequer when
Labor was last in office with his
promises—which did not square with its
past translation of theory into practice.
A DDED to the fact that the Con-
servatives were able to tear Labor’s
mandate domestic programme to rib-
bons on the basis of past experience.
Labor was carrying the old handicap of
pledge to nationalisation which has
ceased to be popular in the U.K., even
if it were fully practicable, since the
electors have had an opportunity of
contrasting the results of denationalisa-
tion with those of nationalisation.
Lastly, on the domestic side, the
Labor party, especially at the trade-
union level, showed at a grave dis-
advantage. Some of the biggest unions
are led by Communists open in their
sympathy with Russia, even after such
incidents as those of the rape of
Hungary and the ravage of Tibet. The
Briton with no compulsions imposed
by unemployment or want is now find-
ing these uncomfortable bedfellows
within the movement.
The constant “demarcation” dis-
putes, parallel to the growing accord
between workers as a whole and
employers, are harrassing to employees
and a burden on their pockets, beside
being in complete opposition to the
Socialist theory of the brotherhood of
man.
Men would not be human if they
did not become impatient in suffering
the effects of repeated strikes to decide
which bunch of union-leaders should
secure the right of his union to do
particular work.
In international policy Labor has
found itself at even a greater dis-
advantage than in the domestic field.
It is not of one mind. Its party out-
look is a compromise between extreme
Right and extreme Left, served-up to
electors in such a manner as the party-
planners believe will most effectively
entice radical Conservative and
Liberal votes. At the back of the
electors’ minds was the knowledge that
Labor had not raised a finger to help
Mr. Macmillan secure accord for a
Summit Conference with the Kremlin
and Washington. Rather, it had sought
to declare its sole British copyright in
the ideal of peace, thus hampering the
Government in its negotiations.
Also, it seemed that at every step
towards accord between the cold-
warring nations, the little figures of
Gaitskell and Aneurin Bevan were to
be seen blowing hard as they toddled
behind the giants trying to keep-up.
There was consciousness, too, that if
there were to be a Summit Conference
it would be requisite to success that
the United States and Great Britain
and the Commonwealth should work
closely and confidentially together;
and that in view of Labor’s large
ingredient of anti-Americanism and of
sentiment in line with the Kremlin’s
Socialist anti-imperialism, Washington
would be reluctant indeed to deal on
closely confidential terms with a
Gaitskell-Bevan Government; especially
as there was a double-barrelled appre-
hension that Mr. Gaitskell might very
soon assume the role of the young lady
inside Tiger Bevan.
APART from all this, the general
trends of the time were against a
Labor win. As everywhere else, there
are signs that Labor is “on the way
out.”
Basically, the Labor party has been
a temporary expedient to meet a par-
ticular set of conditions produced by
the disorderly onset of the industrial
revolution which left the “haves” with
too much and the “have-nots” with
too little, and without the means to
make the balance fairer.
The call for it is disappearing every-
where, and with the disappearance of
the need the attractiveness of the
Socialist vision.
That vision scarcely has any drawing-
power with an electorate whose mem-
bers are every year acquiring more
leisure, better clothes, motor-cars, TV-
sets and luxuries which not long since
were the prerogatives of the rich.
In every country in the West the
drift from Socialism towards “little
capitalism” is taking place. It is pos-
sible that the onset of the drift is even
having its effects in Moscow, and that
the sudden thirst of Khrushchev for
peace, at least ostensibly, without
world-conquest, has been born of the
realisation that the day of the Com-
munised mass is further away than
ever and that a way must be found
for the U.S.S.R. to integrate itself with
a global civilisation which every
year looks more sourly on its egali-
tarian programme of mass Socialism.
Even at present there is little repre-
sentative of Labor about Labor parties
except the name. And this at all recent
elections, both here and abroad, the
natural supporter of Labor seems to
have realised.


JACK-IN-THE-BEANSTALK
(How far’s the top, and what's there?)


PLAIN ENGLISH
When Thieves Fall-out
About the most consistent feature of
politics east of the Mediterranean is the
instability of alliances and allegiances.
It is difficult to believe that two years
or so ago Jordan was repudiating British
associations, that Syria was more closely
aligned to Moscow than to anybody, that
Egypt was likewise behaving like a
Moscow satellite, with Eastern Europe
pouring largesse into its lap.
The Afro-Asian bloc seemed to be
nearly congealed as a united force, with
China, fuelled in hate of “colonialism”
by Moscow, the dominating factor in
policy-making.
Since then Nasser has withdrawn from
the jaws of the Red traps and India has
had its tastes of Communism in Kerala
and found it bitter and along the
Himalayas and found it frightening.
The Chinese are showing what" they
mean by the Communist phrases “just
revolutionary wars” and “wars of libera-
tion,” upsetting the Geneva settlement
of the Indo-China region which all the
unquenchable optimism of the daily
English-speaking press backed as the
beginning of a new era of stability.
Iraq has boiled in blood, first with a
rabble military-leadership shouting
“Hurrah for Nasser and the Communist
Allies.” Then, after a long interval of
shameless rule (and murder) by “people’s
courts,” it has grown bitterly hostile to
Nasser, but has come more under Com-
munist domination.
Syria, having become allied to Egypt
under Nasser’s military domination, has
shed most of its Communism, and is now
in tow with Cairo, which appears to be
an armed camp —armed and determined
to establish Nasser’s domination of the
Middle East through appearing as the
Saviour of Islam and the destroyer of
the Israeli infidel by the use of force.
There is, in fact, a contest in progress
between Nasser and the Communist
north for the honor of “rescuing” Israel
from Hebrew bondage.
At the anniversary celebration in
Peking of the end of a decade of Mao’s
rule, which was the occasion of the visit
of Khrushchev, an exiled Communist
leader from Syria, one Kaled Baqdash,
violently abused Nasser and the Arab
Republic.
The attack was carefully staged in such
a way that it appeared as if the Chinese
Government had been party to it, and
perhaps Khrushchev or his minions as
well, which seems highly likely.
Nasser reacted as if he had been bitten
on a soft spot by a scorpion, recalled his
charge d’affaires in Peking to give a full
account of the event, and apparently
delayed the departure of the new Egyp-
tian Ambassador to China.
“A 1 Ahram,” which is the “Izvestia”
of Cairo, the official organ of Nasser,
said that the Government was contempla-
ting asking the Chinese to close their
consulate in Damascus because it
“undoubtedly helps the Communists to
continue their illegal activities.”
There was talk in the Cairo press of
closing the Chinese-Egyptian Friendship
League, a likening of Mao to Hitler, a
charge that China now considered Iraq
within its zone and that the Chinese
Embassy in Bagdad had become more
powerful and active than the Russian and
was actually directing the Iraqi Com-
munists.
All this hubbub was added to by
shouts of indignation from Belgrade at
the things said in Peking about Tito and
by the roars of rage from the followers
of Kassem in Bagdad against the
“imperialists” who had tried to shoot
him down after his minions of the
people’s courts had recently achieved the
judicial murder of several ex-Ministers
and other opponents of the regime.
It is no wonder that Khrushchev has
the air of being uneasy about Red
China, the growth and ambitions of
which the new and huge Embassy build-
ings in Moscow —probably the largest of
their kind in the world belonging to any
country—must seem like an ominous
warning-point.
A Pink-letter Day
Wednesday, October 7, was a pink-letter
day in the history of the Federal Parlia-
ment —E. J. Ward, M.H.R. for East
Sydney, apologised to a political
opponent!
A short time ago Ward drew atten--
tion in the House to allegations of
lobbying made by J. Somerville Smith
against H. G. Pearce, M.H.R. for Capri-
cornia. Last Wednesday H. F. Opperman
asked the Minister for Trade whether
he had received a lettergram from J.
Somerville Smith containing “a very
serious allegation against Mr. Ward, con-
cerning import-licences and lobbyirig in
this Parliament for £100.” He further
asked whether in the event of Ward
considering the charges ill-founded and
unwarranted —which, he said, he could
well imagine would be the case —did the
Minister think Ward should, with justi-
fication, express regret for the embarrass-
ment he had inflicted on Pearce when,
acting on information from the same
source, he criticised Pearce for his actions
and motives?
McEwen replied that he had received
a lengthy telegram signed “J. Somerville
Smith.” It contained unsupported allega-
tions which he did not consider warranted
investigation. He had not given it pub-
licity* because he felt it would be out-
rageous to damage the reputation of a
member by publicising such a reckless
communication.
After question-time, granted leave to
make a statement, Ward said,
if, as a result of repeating anything said
by this particular gentleman, I reflected on
Mr. Pearce, then I withdraw it and regret
that I have caused him any embarrassment.
Having apologised, Ward then reverted
to his more accustomed role. He said
. the telegram was “so fantastic that it
could only have emanated from some-
body who had a deranged mind....l
think this man is a fit case to be con-
fined in a criminal lunatic asylum.” He
then said he believed Somerville Smith
, was acting for “a particular type of
importer,” or a section of importers, who
“feared a thorough and proper investiga-
tion into import-licences.” He asked
for a royal commission on the adminis-
tration of import-licences.
Replying to what he described as one
of the most incredible statements he had
ever heard, Trade Minister McEwen said
that Ward had suggested the man who
made allegations against him was so
obviously bereft of all sanity that he
should be confined in a criminal lunatic
asylum, yet he considered the same man’s
charges against the Government sufficient
to justify a royal commission. Ward
himself had made charges qf improper
conduct against the Government, but
was not prepared to support them with
any evidence whatever. He recalled that
on a previous occasion Ward had made
allegations which led to a royal com-
mission and had then refused to go
before it and give evidence. McEwen
was referring to the Brisbane Line case,
in which Ward pleaded Parliamentary
privilege.
Eddie's pink-letter day ended with the
member for East Sydney looking rather
red-faced.
The Battered Board
[From Canberra]
The sedate Commonwealth Public
Service Board took a battering from
Professor Armand Bland’s team of watch-
dogs- on the Public Accounts Committee
last week.
In a report tabled in Parliament, the
Public Accounts Committee strongly
criticised the board for the case it
presented to the committee urging a lift
in the limit imposed on Government
contracts for which public tenders are
not necessary.
The board wanted the limit raised from
the present figure of £2OO to £2OOO or
£SOOO.
The committee said the board had
“erred” in not giving closer attention
to its submissions, and had the board
spent more time analysing certain com-
parisons it placed before the committee,
its conclusions would have been
different.
Earlier, the board, through its. chair-
man, Sir William Dunk, submitted a
proposal to Cabinet to “up” the limit to
£2OOO.
The then Treasurer, Artie Fadden,
fought tooth-and-nail against it, saying
that any \yidening of the area in which
Government contracts could be let with-
out calling for public tenders also
widened the possible area of malpractice
and patronage.
As a compromise, Cabinet agreed to
raise the limit to £IOOO, much against
Fadden’s wishes, and, after further strong
pressure from Treasury, Cabinet decided
to shelve its proposal temporarily, and
get the Public Accounts Committee to
express a view on the matter.
Treasury wizard Len Hewitt went
before the committee and for two days
put-up argument after argument as to
why the limit should stay at £2OO.
He finished-up by saying: “I can only
say, no matter how stick-in-the-mud my


reputation may be, that I have seen
nothing in the reasons [forwarded to the
committee by the P.S. Board] which
would lead me to recommend that the
amount be changed.
“I cannot see in all the papers and
in all the evidence specific concrete
reasons in relation to the other con-
siderations that are involved to justify
making a change.”
Hewitt won the day hands-down.
Defence and Its Critics
The Defence Department came in for
strong criticism from strange quarters
when the Estimates were passed —from
such as Arthur Calwell and Dan Curtin,
who, over the past few years, seem to
have become the great authorities on the
question.
Mr. Calwell has always been a mili-
tary authority, and, like the Duke of
Wellington, his campaigns are made of
ropes so that he can vary his views to
suit circumstances. Mr. Curtin emerged
as the Clausewitz and Montgomery
combined of the Labor party in 1956,
when he became very much annoyed
that Mr. Menzies and Sir Philip Mc-
Bride would not give him publicly the
explicit detail for defending Australian
cities —information for which any enemy
would have been willing to give more
than a basket of prawns if it intended to
attack.
There is probably a good deal to be
criticised in Australia’s defence position
—but by responsible critics. It is costly,
little is known about where the money
goes, and often there seems little to show
for it, even though the civilian element
in defence (mostly in Canberra) is over-
prominent.
But the most that can be done in a
period of high cost of armaments that
swiftly become absolescent is to
preserve efficient cadres of trained officers
and men, machines and weapons and
basic experimental arrangements, airfields
on a major scale, radar and proper
liaison with allies in plans and arrange-
ments. Along these lines the Govern-
ment has done a great deal.
Even then it is criticised for its
enormous outlay, which the Labor party
professed not to consider enormous when
there were no modern aircraft or
R.A.A.F. training-system, no permanent
cadre worth the name, poorly paid forces,
and Woomera in an embryo state, with
very little enthusiasm being shown for
it. Indeed, Left-wing Labor was
violently opposing it in consonance with
the Communist line.
Now Woomera, which is perhaps the
key to Australian major defence, is one
of the world’s greatest projects of the
kind and in some respects the most
advanced. There is a sound Army cadre
with excellent plans for expansion, a
sound nucleus of an operating Air Force,
geared for expansion and co-operation
with the other forces of Seato, and a
basic Navy which is about all that can
be expected in a transitional period. Also,
a very up-to-date defence-production
organisation, well-equipped and with
ample stocks.
Gentlemen's Disagreement
The dispute in Melbourne about the
future of the Western Market site is the
most bewildering of recent years. No
explanation has been given or even
suggested for the attempt to spike, by
the advocacy of an open garden-square
and car-park, the agreement for the
erection of a £6-million office-block on
the site, on the eve of signing.
The opening mild protest was made by
Cr. Maurice Nathan, a former chairman
of the properties-committee which is
conducting the negotiations, who pointed-
out that there had originally been three
tenderers, and since the closing, the
terms of lease had been altered in favor
of Underhill, the small Melbourne com-
pany which has been virtually acquired
by Taylor Woodrow, the English
company which proposes to build the
block.
Mr. Nathan then stepped aside, and
Morris Sallmann, a well-known real-
estate agent, arrived on stage with the
garden-car-park project of which nobody
had heard for years. With his interests in
standing city blocks of offices, it could
not be claimed' Mr. Sallmann is a disinter-
ested bystander.
There is, of course, always a weighty
body of opinion in Melbourne in support
of gardens anywhere, including the
Town Hall site itself, and Mr. Sallmann’s
sudden brainwave was strongly and
widely supported, although it had not
occurred to him, or the other advocates,
that a city garden-car-park site would be
equally valuable on the Eastern Market
site, where Pan-American Airways, unlike
Taylor Woodrow, cannot make up their
minds to build.
Leo Curtis, the current properties-com-
mittee chairman, also sidestepped
adroitly. He announced that Underhill’s
tender had lapsed with the other two,
and the committee had since continued
negotiations with the co. and would
recommend the acceptance of their offer
on a sliding-scale, the rental determined
by the purchasing-power of the £ over
the years.
The controversy has been most gentle-
manly. All the parties concerned are
well-to-do, with reputations for civic
righteousness, and so the explanation for
the sudden aversion to the great building,
which the City Council had sought so
assiduously, remains hidden.
P.R., and How!
[From Canberra]
If, as Prime Minister Menzies has said,
Federal Parliamentarians are their own
public-relations officers, it’s time they all
packed-up and sought a different occu-
pation.
Things came to a head when Tas-
manian Labor Senator Bill Aylett decided
to transfer his electorate office from
Tasmania to Queensland’s Gold Coast
“for health reasons.”
This was followed almost immediately
by disclosures that certain members had
used travel-warrants to Christmas Island
as an excuse to call through Singapore,
Hong Kong and all points west.
Press and public criticism of these two
facets of Parliamentary life led to an
outcry by the politicians that they were
being humiliated and that the dignity of
Parliament was being lowered.
It was then that the P.M. put it straight
on the line to members—Government
and Opposition alike.
He said: “I have been in Parliament,
one way or another, man and boy, for
about 30 years, and in the whole of that
time there have been some organs of
opinion that have sought to undermine
Parliament. The answer is not to be
found in repressive measures ; it is here.
We are all public-relations officers for
the institution of Parliament, and it is
according to the way in which we per-
form our duties as such that the reputa-
tion of Parliament will be determined.”
But no sooner had “Hansard” printed
the P.M.’s curt reminder than a group of
Senators, led by Nancy Buttfield, of S.A.,
set-out to establish a committee to
“investigate Australian tourist-spots, with
a view to publicising them.”
An investigation of tourist-spots could
range from the Barrier Reef to the attrac-
tive beach at Cottesloe in W.A.—all at
public expense.
This proposal has been shelved
temporarily because of an expected
public outcry.
Next Parliamentary aside came when
the news was broken that a group of
members and Senators wanted the Gov-
ernment to provide them with squash-
courts in the Parliamentary grounds at
a cost of £7OOO.
There are two perfectly good blocks
of commercial squash-courts at Canberra
already, one of them within a mile of
Parliament House, and bookings are not
heavy during the day when, members
claim, they want to play.
Bolte's Backbenchers
[From “Collins Street”J
The latest changes in the Victorian
Cabinet’s off-course tote bill simply
reflect the interesting position now
developing within the Liberal and
Country party.
The Premier has been having some
trouble with his backbenchers, and the
tote bill has been altered more than once
to please as many of them as possible,
although very few of them can know
anything authoritative about the off-
course tote except the evidence produced
from first-hand witnesses by the V.R.C.
Bolte has also been fortunate in the
surprising docility of the Country party
since the current session opened, and it is
now surmised in the lobbies that the
Government has undertaken not to pro-
ceed with its hinted intention of redraft-
ing the boundaries of the Legislative
Council.
This would have been most damaging
to the Country party, but may also have
rebounded on the Liberals, and it is
presumed that a truce has been called,
temporarily at least.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T ike other school-kids lately mentioned
here, I also was rewarded
after an operation. As boarders
whose homes were far removed, we spent
the Easter vacation at the school.
Wandering through the scrub near the
school, a back-o’-Barcoo form-mate pro-
duced a pea-rifle and invited me to dance.
Being Irish, I stood stock-still. I invited
him to shoot. He did. We decided to
say nothing about the puncture in the
fleshy part of my right upper-thigh, or
about the absence of any exit-wound.
Three or four days later my right leg
was stiff. I couldn’t get my pyjama-
pants off. This awakened the interest of
a housemaster. The school surgeon
recovered the slug. My old man arrived.
In the presence of the principal he
removed my strides. He made me walk
the room. He was satisfied there was no
permanent impairment of my gait. He
carefully inspected the surgical scar
through which the slug had been removed
from the right cheek. He satisfied him-
self that the scar was healed. Then he
kicked that cheek good and hard and
cut me out of pocket-money for a
month. —“Vingter.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: It is reported from
Adelaide that some meat-pies may
contain kangaroo. Some chaps I know in
that city are more fastidious ; rejecting
the meat, they regale themselves with the
hops.
*;< ♦:<
“Ymar”: This winter some Broughton
(Vic.) enthusiasts decided to have a golf-
course. Sixteen of them attended meet-
ing on a Thursday, elected president and
secretary, and so effectively arranged
next day’s working-bee that players were
able to hit-off on the Saturday!
, „ „
v
“Collins Street”: Case before Mel-
bourne S.M. was a charge of reckless
flying against a highly competent pilot
who flew his private Mustang aircraft
under wires 27ft. from the ground at
Tocumwal (N.S.W.) R.A.A.F. base at
300 m.p.h. An expert witness for the
defence testified to the effect that if the
aircraft had Bft. clearance between its.
propellers and the ground as it passed
beneath the wires it was safe enough in
daylight. No doubt the mathematics
involved verged on the Lunik fringe to
his Worship; but the Commonwealth
had also charged the pilot simply with
flying below 500 ft., so he ruled that it
wasn’t reckless but fined him £75 on the
second charge. On that one, no doubt,
he could feel his feet on the ground.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: To say that the spring day
when an important affair was billed to
take place at our church was bleak is
an understatement: most of the ladies
had been forced to haul their furs and
things out of summer-storage.. The
service had scarcely got into swing when
a woman beat a hasty retreat. Another
woman hurried after her to inquire if
she felt sick. “No, I’m all right,” the
fugitive assured her. “It’s just that 1
simply can’t stand the smell of incense.”
But there hadn’t been any incense ; only
the pungent odor of mothballs.
♦>
“Septulm”: Melbourne’s empty
.Sunday streets that Percy Leason
exploited with his model cars (B.
30/9 / ’59) provided a parallel sport for
billycart-drivers. Two hours before
Sunday cable-cars emerged from their
stables about noon, the power-house
driving-wheels started turning at three-
quarter speed to allow by daylight a
careful examination of the cable for
shreds, burrs or chafes. The enterprising
soapbox rider coasted down Bourke
Street from Parliament House and
returned by courtesy of the Melbourne
Tramway Company hanging on to 6ft. of
quarter-inch round steel handled one end
and hooked the other, with which he
had angled down the slot for the moving
cable, so that he was ski-lifted up the
hill at an exhilarating nine-miles-an-hour.
A *
“Barra”: On his birthday junior from
down the street, all 3ft. of him, emerged
a la Kit Carson, revolvers and all. “Flash
new rig-out you’ve got there, sonny!”
“Yep,” he said, “king-size cowboy now.”
THE CAST THAT GOT AWAY
“At Greenhills, inland from Sydney, at the
first international surf casting championships,
W. Keys (Vic.) established a world-record cast
of 730 ft. 3in. to win the International Casting
Federation 4oz. unrestricted event with a total
average of 720 ft. Sin.”
You talk about the mighty masts
The champion casters wield,
Making their record fishing-casts
Upon an inland field,
But it was on a Sydney beach
In earnest and not play
That Smithers’ cast flew out of reach,
The cast that got away.
He let his strong right arm go back,
He trembled on the sands,
He flung so forcefully that — smack! —
The rod leapt from his hands;
It glittered in the noonday light,
It rose above the bay,
And Smithers watched it out of sight,
The cast that got away.
New Zealand was the last to see
The rod and line go by
Because by South Amerikee
They had climbed too high ;
And when the Russians reach the moon
They’ll radio Mr. K:
“We found it with a fisher-goon,
The Cast that Got Away!’’
But meanwhile, Smithers only swore,
For fame was not his wish ;
He feared that greeting at the door:
“As usual, no fish !’’
But then he brightened-up a bit —
He’d something new to say:
The fish he might have caught with it —
The Cast that Got Away !
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM


On my first visit to St. Peter’s,
Rome, the authorities were get-
ting ready for the removal of the
embalmed body of Pope Pius X. He had
promised his people in Venice that he
would return to his birthplace, but when
he died in 1914 he hadn’t done so; so
his promise was being honored after
death. The centre of the great church
already hung with paintings of four
miracles was but the beginning. With
my neck craned to its fullest I watched
fascinated as a system of ropes was
pulled at the whistle-order of a man in
a bosun’s-chair. The vast height of the
place has to be seen to be appreciated,
and away-up the man swung from pillar
to pillar, like an acrobat. He kicked-
off from one pillar, diagonally, and with
his feet he grasped another, leaving his
hands free to hook his rope-seat securely.
Then, blowing a whistle, he hauled on
another rope, and up came a great length
of crimson banner which he firmly
attached to the pillar, and it was straight-
ened by help on the ground. Then
another shove and he was off to another
part of the huge area to be decorated,
miraculously avoiding being entangled in
the chandeliers. The family whose know-
ledge of steeplejacking inside and outside
St. Peter’s is their zealously guarded
secret are known as “Sanpietrini.” H. V.
Morton describes them as “hereditary
acrobats.” What impressed me, apart
from their skill, poise and assurance,
was that should death follow a fall (and
there was no catching-net) the whole
place would have to be re-dedicated. —
“Sister Ellell.”
*l* * *i*
“Kelvin”: Reading about the all-night
broadcast from a temporary studio in
a Brisbane shop-window (B. 23/9/’59),
a sedate Brisbane contemporary shudd-
ered. In the small hours, during his
unregenerate youth, he and some boon
companions showed a bibulous interest
in a window-display being prepared by
a man on an all-night shift. Their
interest was manifestly resented by the
small-hours toilej. The revellers did
their best, with somewhat ungentlemanly
sign-language, to show that the distaste
was mutual. The impromptu panto-
mime of those on the outside looking in
was interrupted by the invitation: “Like
to come for a ride, boys?” extended by
two large and affable strangers. In the
cameraderie of Brisbane of those days
the invitation was enthusiastically
accepted by the revellers, who stepped
briskly into the waiting car, and spent
the rest of the night in the watchhouse.
❖ *> *t+
“Pat”: Was interested in “Zeyd’s”
comments on IQ. tests (B. 23/9/’59).
Our three daughters attend a school
where intelligence-tests are held for the
entire primary sixth-classes at the
beginning of the year. Results of these
tests are posted to parents with the advice
that the marks gained should be kept a
secret from the child. Parents unwilling
to follow this advice have only them-
selves to thank if they gain “a super-
cilious loafer” or a badly inferiority-com-
plexed child.
♦J*
“0.W.W.”: A girl on an N.Z. bus was
telling a companion how one of her
workmates had got the sack. “The boss
tripped over Mount Egmont and was
so fierce he gave her a week’s notice,”
she declared. She went on to explain
to her puzzled friend that Mount Egmont
was what the other hotel housemaids
called the largest of many piles of dust
and dirt swept under carpets and lino,
by a very tired and lazy lass!
❖ <* ❖
“Jeyles”: The notorious matchmaker
Ivan Kreuger manoeuvred a multiplicity
of alliances dowried with duffed Italian
bonds and contrived on the precarious
bases of company interlockings. The
story, seeming to have the imprint of
truth but never before published, goes
that Kreuger approached Bryant and
May (Aust.), who considered carefully
the lavish benefits promised from a
merger, and then dropped an awful brick.
It was as if the modest maid from Woop
Woop blushingly admitted that she was
all of a hanker to marry the rich Emperor
Lucifer, and would he indulge her foolish
female whim and establish mutual confi-
dence by having her guardian uncles
Price, Waterhouse audit the books of
both parties prior to the publishing of
the banns. Whereupon the marriage-
broker couldn’t be seen for dust, and
the innocent damsel must indeed, in view
of subsequent events, have regarded her
jilting with virtuous equanimity.
❖ & ❖
“Irvine”: The “Jane Austen” streets
in the small township mentioned by “E. &
0.E.” have nothing on the street-names
in Sydney’s northern suburb of Ryde-
Eastwood. The fervently patriotic alder-
men certainly made every signpost a
winning-post: Agincourt, Albuera,
Alma, Badajoz, Balaclava, Blenheim,
Corunna, Cressy, Delhi, Fontenoy, Inker-
man, Lucknow, Plassey, Quebec, Sebas-
topol yimiera, yittoria, Waterloo...
v v
“Bo”: Of all hand-signal givers, the
driver who draws some mysterious moral-
support from gutter-gripping, and the one
who perpetually drums his fingers on
the roof, have to me comprised roaddom’s
No. 1 neckpains. They are followed
closely by Droopyarm too debilitated to
11,1 9 a P P.
“° ke J' ho J? bs “ X h a„rf P t ,r'n the
bef ° re mak “ a "XXX out
goat who uses his window to pomt-oui
t passe ngers interesting things every
hundred yards, or to ash his gasper
* the cove who waves a
ha J round and round like a heUcopter-
d . turns out he intends , 0
NEW SERIAL
"Memoirs of a Pioneer
Pressman"
By B. S. Baxter Cook
(Founder of the Australian Journalists’
Association and its first Gold Medallist.)
Highlight experiences during a life-
time in Melbourne journalism.
Personal-acquaintance chapters on
Australia’s leading statesmen, from
Edmund Barton to “Billy the Great,”
and on various picturesque figures,
famous or undeservedly forgotten.
First Instalment
Next Week’s “Bulletin”


reverse ; the ape who uses one finger to
indicate he’s pulling-out from the kerb.
But lately I struck a newy. Arm straight-
up in the correct Stop position, but with
the fingers fanned-out, was maintained
for over half-a-mile until the car pulled-
up in the shopping-centre. As I slid into
the vacant space behind, the driver got
out, tested one of her right-hand finger-
nails, then said, “They’re dry, Mavis;
you take the -wheel, will you? I’ll get
the left one dry out your window now.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Farinmail”: That Australian abo-
riginal who fought at Trafalgar was
promoted to be captain of the maintop
Don't make me too attractive, Mr. Jones; my husband's terribly jealous!"
of his ship after the battle (B. 16/ 9/’59).
Sir Maurice O’Connell (1812-79), Gover-
nor Bligh’s grandson, who was born in
the military barracks, Sydney, fought in
the Carlist War in Spain in the 1830’s as
an officer in the British Legion for young
Queen Isabella against her uncle, Don
Carlos. Before the end of the war
O’Connell commanded the corps. He
returned to Australia, entered political
life and in his old age was four times
Lieut.-Governor of Queensland.
**♦ <2+
“Barra”: The Kremlin’s hurling of
unwanted pots and pans at the cheesy
orb rings the buzzer. Many years ago in
our area Shooting the Moon was . a
nightly pastime. Old Quayle’s handcart
in the street presaged an empty house
and an irate landlord in the a.m. Theme-
song of the era had the chorus:
Has anybody seen a movin’ job,
The one that I want to find ?
There’s a couple of kiddies pulling at a truck
With the old girl shovin’-up behind.
They stcried away, ’twas yesterday,
At two in the afternoon;
It’s jolly hard luck,
And yer need a lot of pluck,
To be always Shooting at the Moon.
Handcart-hire was a deener and no ques-
tions answered.
"Down in Melbourne I visited the
Public Library, and on the
way out stopped to look at the statue of
Sir Redmond Barry. I was reading the
details of his career on the plate attached
—he had been Solicitor-General, Acting
Chief Justice, first Chancellor of the
University and a good deal else —when
a teenager piped up: “That’s the bloke
who sentenced Ned Kelly.”—“W. P. T.”
❖ ❖ ❖
H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton: Don’t know
why the “e” was left out of Surry Hills,
or who was the “Mona” of Mona Vale,
“Doric” (B. 23 /9/’59), but when in 1908
the railway was extended from Belmore
to Bankstown a station was built on
Benjamin Taylor’s Lakemba estate.
Taylor, as a young man, had been a
planter on Lakemba Island, in the Fiji
group. He came to Australia some time
in the early ’nineties and bought the
property, which he called Lakemba after
the island. Incidentally, in my boyhood
days it was always pronounced
Lak-em-ba.
<s*
“0.W.W.”: Wellington (N.Z.) is to
lose another hotel when the Alhambra
Hotel in Cuba Street closes about mid-
October. The Alhambra, one of the
city’s oldest pubs, was the birthplace of
N.Z.’s Returned Services’ Association in
War I. Chain-stores, McKenzies, Ltd.,
are building an £BO,OOO store on the site.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Taffy”: During the recent oil-dold-
rums, most Australian periodicals gave
considerable space to the “centenary” of
the discovery of flow-oil, placing the date
for the first commercial production of
oil at August 27, 1859, when “Colonel”
Edwin Laurentine Drake struck oil in
Pennsylvania. In fact the exact day and
time of the appearance of petroleum in
Drake’s well is as doubtful as his military
title—and his was not the first gusher.
As early as 1829, oil gushed out of a
brine-well in Kentucky at the rate of 1000
barrels a day, but was allowed to flow to
waste as it was regarded as a nuisance.
And, as a Welshman, I should like to
place on record that Charles Miller
Williams was drilling his 27th oil-well in
Ontario, Canada, about the same time
as Drake was drilling his first. In 1860,
Williams was offering crude-oil for sale in
100,000-gallon lote.
❖ ❖ <*
“Wulworra”: A . reminiscent grin
enlivened my chaste features on reading
“C.A.L.’s” par. (B. 30/9/’59) about an
intruder who admitted that he wasn’t a
staff-member but only looked like one
because he was feeling “a bit crook.”
During a sea-trip years ago a fellow-
passenger asked me my occupation, and
on being invited to do a spot of guess-
work he hit the bull’s-eye by nominating
journalism. Thejn, flushed by success,
he added, “I reckon you’re on the staff
of the ‘Sydney Morning Herald.’ ” He
was wrong on the second count, and
after telling him so I confided, “It’s only
the rolling of the ship that makes me look
like a ‘Herald’ man.” Alas, I made the
tactical error of telling that tale later to
a “Herald” old-timer —and he brushed
me off for the next couple of months.
HOW TO WIN A PACKET
“The value of marriageable girls in some
central African tribes is now set in tobacco-
currency, the price rising if they’re fat and
falling if they’re thin.” —From a radio talk.
Poor dumb whites! We think we’re smart.
Yet the father-of the bride
With a stiff wad has to part,
All the doings to provide.
Could he wipe tradition’s slate,
And the heathen emulate, .
The simple ’groom-elect cunningly
soaking,
In the union of the twain
He could turn dead-loss to gain,
By enjoying many years of buckshee
smoking.
But the Dad of dusky belles
(Provided they’re well curved)
In a blessed Utopia dwells ;
By King Luck he’s nobly served.
He would certainly go crook
If the slim-and-slinky-look
They heard was a la mode, and tried
to capture.
He best satisfies his needs
By prescribing fatty feeds ;
The sight of mountainous maidens
brings him rapture.
The buck who’d buy a mate
Doesn’t now spar-up some pigs.
Inflation-price, a crate-
Full of stuff they shove in cigs.
If she touches sixteen-stone
And he has to lump his own
Currency, it’s probable he’ll get a raw
back.
Oh, the savings of that bloke
He will see go up in smoke —
And she’ll provide, no doubt, his
biggest drawback !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


"BlLL"—and the Poets
The de Burg Tape-reeordiegs
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
Wednesday afternoons
in at The Bulletin
office are when
everyone—or almost
everyone—relaxes a bit. And
it’s on Wednesday afternoons,
oddly enough, that some of
the most interesting people
happen in.
A fair-sized volume could
be written about the variety of
visitors —from British field-
marshals to station-hands from
the Northern Territory. For
one reason or another, and
usually unannounced, they
drop in at 252 George Street.
Thus, the other Wednesday, as
Sheila McDermott hurried
down the corridor, she said
that Mrs. de Burg had come
in, “With a recording of Bill.
Come and hear it.”
There are several Bills on
the premises, apart from the
one or two to be met round
the Australian scene elsewhere,
and vaguely wondering which
particular Bill had been
recorded, and why, I followed
into the roomy room that Mr.
Webb used to inhabit, and
where now Hazel de Burg was
crouched over a tape-recorder ;
from which, presently, clear as
a bell, came the voice of Bill
Fitz Henry.
So I was introduced to
Hazel de Burg, who has been
putting Australian poets, read-
ing their own verse, on tape.
And so, nearly three years
after his death, I heard Bill
Fitz Henry—no poet except,
perhaps, in the art of living,
but friend of many poets.
T>ill was talking about Henry
Lawson, but what he said
seemed to me, in all the cir-
cumstances, less important than
the fact that he was saying it
there—on a typical Wednesday
afternoon.
For Bill was a special kind
of person. As Les Such wrote,
in one of the many tributes
that came to The Bulletin
after Bill’s death, “a mighty
little man”—and he loved the
paper.
Looking over the files of the
period—February, 1957 —one
sees a long “Plain English”
from former Bulletin editor
J. E. Webb, beginning “Bill
Fitz Henry dead”:
Towards the end of last week
this thought was in the minds of
hundreds, thousands, of writers and
artists; and to one and all, from
Dame Mary Gilmore, in years his
oldest friend, to the latest recruit
to the black-and-white brotherhood,
it brought grateful memories ot
'good companionship, steady
encouragement and help where help
was needed, and a sense of personal
loss.
No Australian has ever had a
larger body of literary acquaint-
ances, and when success came the
way of novelist or poet Fitz Henry
rejoiced in his quiet fashion. But
to those who were struggling he
was always the guide, philosopher
and friend.
“Bill” to publishers, librarians
and the like, as well as to the host
of Bulletin contributors, Fitz
Henry was always “Willie” to old-
stagers on the staff. They saw in
him a certain boyishness which he
retained to the end, though it was
never of the boisterous bind.
And finishing: “He died at
his desk, in the office which,
from boy to man, he had
served for forty years; and
that is how he would have
wished to die.”
In the same issue, on the
“Personal Items,” a long piece
with details of his literary
activities, ending:
He liked to describe himself as
one of the last of the old bohemians.
His greatest failing was that he
could never resist a hard-luck story,
be the teller friend or stranger.
Such men don’t leave fortunes, but
they leave enduring memories.
Yes ... as one realised,
A vividly enough, this Wed-
nesday afternoon, listening to
Bill talking about Lawson.
The original was an A.B.C.
recording—a disk discovered
in cleaning-up an office. The
A.B.C. had then said they
would like the original for
their archives, and, also, Mrs.
de Burg undertook to take a
copy on a tape, which will
now go with Mrs. de Burg’s
tape-recorded poets to the
Adelaide Festival of Arts next
March.
And that, often enough, is
how literary history is
preserved.
Immediately after J. E.
Webb’s tribute appeared—
the same week—the deluge of
tributes to Bill Fitz Henry had
btegun—coming from writers,
artists, contributors of all sorts.
I was then on the staff, and
it was my job to try to sort
them out. It was impossible
to print them all, and there
was a good deal of inevitable
repetition. But extracts from
a cross-section —Mary Gilmore,
H. M. Green, Bill Howard,
Clive Morton, Peter Bladen,
A. J. Wood, E. R. Murray,
Jim Tyrrell, Les Such, Will
Lawson (since passed on),
“P.0.M.C.,” Henry Cowling,
“Jobber,” M. Rowlands, E. M.
England, “Jindivik,” Bertha
Maxwell, G. H. Officer, Fred
Aarons—were run together the
following week. But still, as
people in other States, or over-
seas, caught-up with the news,
in succeeding weeks they
came . . .
Of that first big wave it is
possible here to quote only
Les Such’s forthright tribute:
When a freelance is struck
down in his prime you can bet
it’ll happen when the funds are
low. And a freelance seldom
provides for these emergencies,
and has no organisation to take
care of such things. It’s a great
thing when you’re lying in bed
for two months wondering how
to pay doctors and specialists and
the butcher and the baker if
someone organises a party at the
Fellowship of Australian Writers,
and comes along with a fistful of
hard cash saying, “Will this
help?” That’s rvhat Billy Fitz did
for me, and I’d like to record it
in “The Bulletin.” He was a
mighty little man, and I, like a
host of others, had a very great
regard for him.
After Bill, Haze! de Burg
put on more tapes.
Kenneth Slessor reading
“Beach Burial”:
Softly and humbly to the Gulf
of Arabs
The convoys of dead sailors
come . . .
Sounding, incidentally,
neither soft nor humble, but,
on the whole, very natural,
Australian and competent;
although, as Hazel de Burg
o Continued on page 51)
“The slump in TV-sales decided us to put
the clock back.”


POLITICAL POINTS
Last Thursday’s U.K. election gave the
Conservative party its third successive
win, each time under a different leader
and each time with an increased number
of seats. Final tally was: Conservative,
366; Labor, 258; Liberals, six. The
Government gained 23 seats, with a
corresponding loss to Labor ; the Liberals
came out square. This means that
Macmillan will have an overall majority
of 102 in the new Parliament.
In a two-per-cent, heavier poll than
in 1955 the Government increased its
vote by 450,000 (to 13,751,000); the
Labor vote declined by 189,000
(12,216,000) and the Liberal tally rose by
918,000 (1,641,000).
The big rise in the Liberal vote has
started talk about the rebirth of
Liberalism. Some writers have gone so
far as to see the Libs, replacing Labor
as the second major party. By far the
greater part of the gain, however, can be
accounted for by the increased number
of seats contested by the Liberals —217
compared with 110 at the previous elec-
tion.
• •
A sidelight on the ban on private
organisations attempting to deliver mail
in competition with the Postal Depart-
ment: The N. S. Wales Government has
for years operated a delivery-pool which
handles correspondence from all its
departments—and does it more cheaply
than the P.M.G. can.
• •
Former Federal Treasurer Arthur
Fadden will head a three-man committee
appointed by the Queensland Govern-
ment to report on development of Glad-
stone harbor. Other members will be
State Actuary J. G. Rutherford and Co-
ordinator General’s Department senior
engineer R. De V. Gipps. Appointment
of the committee is the latest move in a
harbor squabble between Gladstone and
Rockhampton. Gladstone has protested
against plans to develop Port Alma into
Rockhampton’s deep-water port.
• •
The most engaging feature of Senator
Aylett’s indignation because the press is
pursuing him in his Gold Coast refuge
and health-resort is his threat to “take
the law into his own hands” if the Gov-
ernment will not “pull the press into line”
and if Parliament fails to protect him
and his wife from attacks. It is strange
that all these attacks on the freedom of
the press seem to come from the arch-
friends of freedom of democracy, the
Labor party.
Khrushchev and Mao are beginning
rapidly to give shape to their real policies.
From campaigning for peace and admit-
ting its possibility Khrushchev has now
gone to his usual second phase of claim-
ing the “imperialists” will do their utmost
to prevent world peace because it will
affect their profits. Meanwhile China
goes on moving its sphere of influence
southward east of India, having this week
backed Indonesia’s claim for West New
Guinea in return for an Indonesian
backing for its own claim to Formosa.
And Russia goes on moving southward
west of India and has laid airfields
along the southern Afghan border
threatening both India and Pakistan.
• •
Seems there’s no way of escaping the
new postal charges—the nine-page
schedule detailing the new rates even
lays-down the-price for posting bees in
separate bags—two-bob for each consign-
ment.
• •
In an effort to rid Brisbane of its back-
yard earth-closets, the City Council has
decreed that, new-built houses outside the
meagre sewered areas must have septics
where practicable. Possibly overstating
the case a little Vice-Mayor Crawford
says that the “sentry-boxes” have been
the subject “of much adverse criticism
not only in Brisbane, but throughout
Australia.”
T. L. Lewis, Liberal M.L.A. for
Wollongong, criticising the Cahill Gov-
ernment’s soldier-settler record, has
quoted some devastating figures. He
said that the N. S. Wales Government
has settled only 3000 out of 19,000 appli-
cants who had received qualification
certificates, compared with 6000 settled
in Victoria. Also that through the Gov-
ernment’s poor judgment of what consti-
tuted a living-area, repayments were now
£1,115,000 in arrears, compared with
only £46,000 in Victoria.
• •
[From Canberra]
The 13 rural areas to which the Government
has decided to extend television will not be
receiving any .telecasts for at least another 12
months. Fifty applications have been received,
and even if the Broadcasting Control Board
takes only two days over 'each of them, and
starts right away, it will be the New Year
„ before all have been heard.
Then, on past experience, it will take the
Board another month or two to consider the
evidence taken and prepare a report and
recommendations to Cabinet.
A big question for the board to decide is
which, if any, of the areas can profitably stand
two commercial licences initially. Most of the
applicants are truly local companies, with
adequate finance to successfully launch. TV,
but not sufficient to sustain losses for 12
months to two years in competition with a
second commercial station.
ft is tipped that Canberra will get two
licences; but can this be justified when the
viewing audience will be limited to approxi-
mately, and perhaps generously, 200,000? In
both Sydney and Melbourne the two commer-
cial stations suffered heavy losses for up to
18 months, despite an advertising potential of
more than one-million people in each case.
If the Government is sincere in its wish
that independent, locally-owned companies
should operate country TV, it is up to it
to see that the new companies are given
a fair-go to establish themselves successfully
before active competition is introduced.
“Good luck—carry on and finish the job, Mac !"


The new Commonwealth Reserve Bank
is to build a £4-million building in
Martin Place, Sydney, for its head-office.
Rising to 24 stories, it will dominate the
top end of Martin Place, towering
almost as high as the ambitions of the
empire-builders of the Commonwealth
service.
Dr. Coombs hasn’t said much about
other building plans of the Reserve Bank,
but. Premier Playford revealed last week
that his Government had made a site
available for an Adelaide office, the bank
having stipulated that it wanted a site
with 100 ft. frontage on both Flinders
Street and Victoria Square.
If the same building-scale is repeated
in all State capitals the bank won’t be
able to complain about lack of space in
which to keep its reserves. Or will the
buildings be the reserves?
• •
It’s a sad commentary on our political
system and on the rights and duties of
our elected tribunes that newspaper-
commentators should describe any
member who voices his own considered
views in opposition to caucus or party
majority decisions as a “rebel.” Menzies
himself has been a “rebel” on occasion,
and so have a lot of other good men.
Most of them far better than those who
“never thought of thinking for them-
selves at all.”
e ©
N. S. Wales Parliamentary Liberals
are demanding the luxuries enjoyed by
Federal members —larger rooms, private
secretaries, better air-conditioning, more
parking-space on land which would be
rated at about £lOO a member p.a. if it
were privately owned, radio-broadcasts
of sittings. And at the moment Cahill
is promising to abolish half of the talk-
ing-shop next year—the half to which
Cahill himself doesn’t belong. When the
cry of today’s Parliamentary minnows
about overwork is heard it’s cause for
wonder how Deakin, Barton, Reid and
their kind survived.
e •
Reported that Soviet naval leaders are
alarmed at fashion-trends among young
officers of the Red Navy, who have
apparently been affecting “fancy side-
whiskers, semi-female hair-styles, huge
buckles on their shoes and short trousers
which don’t cover their shoes.” There’s
really no reason for alarm among the
Soviet top-brass; nor for complacency
on our side. Elaborate dress and fancy
hair-dos didn’t impair the efficiency of
the Elizabethan seadogs. If we hear
that Russian naval men are taking up
bowls, it’ll really be time to worry.
e •
“Mugga Way”: Liberal-party leaders
will await with interest a report from
their p.-r. man, Edgar Holt, who has been
in Britain for the election campaign,
mainly to study TV political techniques.
(He will also have a look at plans for the
U.S. presidential TV-campaign before
“I Wonder what's on the other side ?"
returning home.) Apart from technical
questions, the major concern for all
political parties in Australia is the
amount of reliance to be placed on TV-
campaigning as distinct from public
meetings, radio, pamphlets and news-
paper-advertising.
• •
Dr. Evatt and his followers propose to
launch a censure-motion aimed at “take-
overs” and monopolies. It is to be hoped
the indignant publicists will not neglect
the takeover of A.L.P. policy by the
Communists when the matter is
discussed.
• ©
Dr. Cairns, a potential future leader
of the Federal Labor Opposition, in the
elegant language which Opposition
scholars sometimes use, called Sir Gar-
field Barwick a “pint-sized McCarthy”
because he dared to state that a congress
summoned in Victoria, allegedly to pro-
mote “international co-operation and
disarmament,” was organised by Com-
munists. Dr. Cairns added that the
congress was supported by the “Metho-
dist Church in Victoria, the A.L.P. in
Victoria, the A.C.T.U. and the Church
of Christ.” Wasn’t the Federal A.L.P.
guilty of McCarthyism when it put the
Communist label on the same confer-
ence?
Queensland University, in a report to
the Australian Universities Commission,
predicts that its enrolments-will rise from
the present 7000 to 18,000 by 1966. The
report calls for a £3-million building-
expenditure in 1961-63, almost as much
again in 1964-66. It also outlines the
proposed status for Townsville University
centre, due to open in 1961.
« •
J. A. J. Hunter, former M.H.R. for
Maranoa, writes:
Yout “Point” (B. 30/9/’59), referring to the
likely division of seats in Queensland between
the non-Labor parties, states the probability of
four “joint-party” candidates in the North. As
there has been nothing decided yet this looks
to me as a sort of kite to see how the C.P.
would take it. So here’s one C.P. opinion.
So-called joint-candidates must be at least
double-jointed so that they can either manoeuvre
between the two party-rooms “week-about” or,
Houdini-like, appear in each room at what
may seem to the audience as one and the
same time. The true definition of “joint” was
well expressed as a result of the Federal
Herbert election last year.
Being a “little of each” must savor very
much either of the hybrid mule who cannot
breed or the hermaphrodite who requires the
operation (of a successful election?) to decide
definitely what it really is to be for the later
portion of its life.
At any rate the rank-and-file of the C.P.
would have something to say on the question.
I for one would very much prefer to see any
member with some definite political opinions,
rather than a Trojan-horse even half-inside
the C.P. camp.
The two country seats mentioned are definitely
country seats and therefore Country party.


Personal
ITEMS
Flourmiller John Cadwallader succeeds
Sir Leslie Morshead as president of the
Bank of New South Wales. A director of
the ’Wales since 1945, he became
director of its savings-bank when it was
established in 1956. He’s g.-m. and
chairman of Allied Mills, Ltd., a director
of Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd., and
runs a grazing-property at Bungendore
(N.S.W.). The Cadwalladers have been
associated with the Gillespies for at least
a couple of generations ; and it is interest-
ing to see a Cadwallader turn-up as
president of the ’Wales 13 years after Sir
Robert Gillespie passed from the presi-
dency.
• •
Sydney solicitor Berge Phillips, secre-
tary of the Australian Swimming Union,
has received a signal honor from the
International Swimming Federation—he’s
been appointed to referee the swimming
at the Olympic Games in Rome next
August. He is well equipped for that
particular job: in addition to being an
authority on all strokes in swimming, he
speaks three languages. It has been his
driving force that has made the Aus-
tralian Swimming Union the most power-
ful, and probably the most financial,
sport-body in the Olympic movement. Its
treasury includes an “international” fund
of £14,000 to be used in helping to defray
the cost of training the swimming-team
for Rome. After being chosen in
February, the team will train for eight
weeks at Townsville (Q.).
• •
“Olivia”: When the new Princess of
Tasmania sailed in to Devonport on her
maiden voyage, it was a great day for the
Williams clan. The master of the new
ship is Captain W. B. Williams, and his
passengers included the chairman of the
Australian National Shipping Board,
Capt. J. B. Williams, and a commissioner
of the board, W. Dudley Williams. All
were greeted by the Warden of Devon-
port, Mr. W. N. Williams.
• •
Dutch-born Hank Lokhurst, 42, has
been appointed special finance-organiser
of the Q.L.P. Educated in Holland, he
went to the Dutch East Indies in 1936,
was a member of the Dutch Air Force
during War 11, a Jap p.-0.-w. from 1942
to 1945, and came here in 1948. He’s
been working in the Railways Depart-
ment.
• •
Herewith Henry Comber, who, born
in London in 1916, was sent to an
orphanage at Burwood (N.S.W.) when
three years old and left at the age of
16 to take-up a job as accounts-
clerk with a Sydney printing-firm. He
remained there for four years, then had a shot
at freelance landscape-gardening (“an ideal
job, but it didn’t flourish”), gave this away
after nine months, joined a firm of Sydney
merchants as stockbook-clerk, and stayed with
them until the outbreak of War 11.
Joining the R.A.A.F., he did his flying-
training in Australia and Canada, then went on
operations as observer in Beauforts, flying
torpedo-bombing sorties from Malta, until he
was shot-down in the sea —and, bagged by an
enemy craft, spent the next day at the
receiving-end of his squadron’s torpedoes.
He spent the next three years “in the bag”
in Italy and Germany, and got mixed-up in
the great escape at Stalag Luft 3—Paul Brick-
hill, who was in Comber’s hut, described this
in one of his books. At v the end of the war
Comber went to England and was commissioned
by the R.A.A.F. to write and illustrate the story
of Australian p.-0.-w. in Europe. He had
become a sort of art-director and theatrical-
manager in prison-camp (when not digging
escape-tunnels) and this had given him the
interest and knowledge for the new job. In
fact, after the war he wanted to lead an
MEAT EXPORTS
artist’s life; but he’d married an American
girl in London and recognised that an artist's
pay was hardly enough to keep a family on.
So he came back to Sydney and, sticking to
accountancy, worked at his business all day
and did part-time art-teaching at the National
Art School and as a lecturer at the University
in the evenings and at weekends.
Five years ago he bought into P. E. Scrivener
and Co., Ltd., an old-established firm of general
exporters of Australian products, mainly meat.
Since then the firm has increased its annual
turnover from £lOO,OOO to £3 million. He’s
joint managing-director, and is at present on
an overseas visit to America and Honolulu.
Scrivener and Co. broke into the beef-industry
in a b'ig way just after Comber joined them,
because he took the trouble to go to America
to learn what the problems were, and then
went round Australia explaining them. This
saved many packers much trouble. To quote
a shipping-executive: “Canberra should hang
a medal on him for his part in building the
meat-export trade to America.”
He says his life now consists of business
and travel —he goes abroad every year—but
confesses that he still finds time to play golf
and squash, and to paint for fun, though he no
longer makes his own picture-frames and
he’s given-up fencing. However, he can tell
some interesting tales of bouts with foil and
sabre against the Italian cavalry-officers, who
were on guard-duty in one of his prison-camps.
Another lawyer will take charge of the
Queensland University Regiment when
the present C.O. —the State Crown Law
Office’s Tom Parslow —goes on the
reserve-list in November. New C.O. is
Lieut.-Colonel P. D. Connolly, barrister
and M.L.A. ? who has been 2 i.c. for three
years, and last year was placed secpnd
in the Sir Thomas Blarney Award for
candidates seeking promotion to lieut.-
colonel. Now 39, Jie was commissioned
in 1940, and saw service in the Middle
East, New Guinea and Borneo. A
citizen-soldier since 1953, he became
A.D.C. to former State Governor Sir
John Lavarack in 1955, and won his way
into the State Assembly at the split-
Labor election of 1957.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Two years as'press-secretary
to National Development Minister
Senator “Bill” Spooner have given
Maurice McKinley the chance of seeing
most parts of Australia, including
Weipa and the oil- and uranium-prospect-
ing areas, as well as getting to know the
haunts of journalists and officials in
Canberra. Originally from New Zealand,
after getting his B.Sc. at Canterbury, he
has found Australia-wide travel as
valuable scientifically as politically. He
has now resigned to become senior
development - officer with Monsanto
(Aust.), Ltd., and is going to the Mel-
bourne h.-q. of the firm, which has
British and American affiliations, and
which recently announced that it will
be producing petro-chemicals in Aus-
tralia by 1961. McKinley says he’ll miss
Canberra, and Canberra will miss him.
The publicity he secured for his boss’s
work was a fair measure of his efficiency.
• •
On a 3000-dollar bursary, awarded by
the Australian Road Federation, Perth
traffic-engineer W. D. Stafford will spend
nine months at the North-Western Uni-
versity, Evanston, Illinois (U.S.A.). There
he’ll study all aspects of traffic, including
pedestrian behavior, parking and road-
capacity, A graduate-member of the
Institute of Engineers (Aust.), he joined
the Westralian Main Roads Department
in 1957.
• •
“Dune”: If ever an artist was a whale
for detail it was Percy Leason. Son of
a Victorian farmer, he retained his love
for the country and its free and easy
life, although he took-up art as a living.
His best work for The Bulletin was
in his full-page cartoons on country
themes, and I, on the land in those days,
had much pleasure, both literally and
financially, in supplying the editor with
ideas for Leason’s drawings. He would
never attempt any sketch unless he had
the subject mechanically correct. For
instance, he never made the mistake
(which a lot of cartoonists do) of show-
ing a cow in a wrongly-built bail or of
putting the operator on the wrong side
when milking it. Leason often spent his
holidays on my small property and
would stand for hours studying the struc-
ture of various farm-implements. On
one occasion I remember sending in an


idea which came to me after I had
visited the local sportsground on the
annual market-day in aid of one of the
churches. Evidently my description was
really good this- time—or else Leason
threw his heart into the cartoon —because
the ladies of the committee, who were
really good friends of mine, refused to
speak to me for months afterwards. On
another occasion, in one of the paddocks,
I pointed out to him a beautiful gum-
tree which had just shed its old bark ;
the new trunk underneath was a vivid
red. “I’d love to paint it,” he said, “but
who would believe it if I matched-up that
lovely color? They’d say I’d gone color-
blind.”
• •
A fellowship of the Australian Insti-
tute of Agricultural Science has been
awarded to Colonel J. K. Murray,
former principal of Gatton College ancl
Administrator of Papua and New Guinea
from 1945 to 1952. His scientific work
includes the introduction of the first
programme for breeding hybrid-maize;
it has dons' wonders for grain-produc-
tion in Australia.
• •
Colin Basil Peter Bell (pictured) is a
son of Colin Bell, of Westland station,
Longreach (Q.), and grandson of Sir
Joshua Bell. Born at Warwick in 1903,
he was educated in Sydney at “Shore,”
where he stroked the school eight. After
schooling, he jackerooed on Portland
Downs, and later was overseer on
Evesham.
In 1928 he joined his uncle, Captain
O. M. D. Bell, at a stud and racing-
stable in Berkshire (Eng.), where Derby-
winner Felsted was housed. Returning
to Australia, he spent the depression
years on a farm near Boonah and
pioneered “No Milk Piggeries” on the
substitute of protein-meal. In 1936 he
bought a couple of properties in the
Julia Creek district, and another near
Barcaldine.
President of the Graziers’ Association
of Central and Northern Queensland for
GRAZIER
four years, he became a councillor of
the United Graziers’ Association of
Queensland in 1947, and vice-president
in 1955. He’s also president of the
Queensland Employers’ Federation, and
chairman of U.N.G.R.A.
• •
Now 78 and living at Kalgoorlie,
Charley Nalty arrived in Coolgardie
from South Australia in 1896 in the
Roaring Days. He won the long-famous
greatest Westralian wheel-race in 1902
—two miles for a prize of £3O0 —starting
at 100 to 1. “Alf Levy, the big book-
maker in those days, laid me £l5O to
nothing,” says Nalty. Riders came from
the eastern States to compete in this
race, which was run each year on
Boxing Day until 1907. “You could
back a rider to win £lO,OOO, heat and
final,” Nalty says. There’d be a roll-up
of 10,000 or more.
Nalty now rides a B.S.A. Bantam
motorbike and passed all his tests —
claimed to be the oldest to get a licence
in Australia. In 1946 at Fremantle he
swam the full distance of two miles out
in the open sea at 65 years of age.
• •
“Maitri”: The Congregational Church
in Australia and N.Z. lost a devoted
pastor with the passing of the Rev. James
Harold King. Born at Warren (N.S.W.)
in 1889, he studied for the ministry at
Camden Theological College (Sydney),
but interrupted his work there to serve
with the 30th Battalion from 1914 to 1919,
being wounded in 1918. After discharge
he completed his studies and was
ordained in 1921, subsequently becoming
pastor at several important churches. He
was chairman of the Congregational
Church in N.S.W., 1931-32, vice-president
of the Congregational Union of Australia
and N.Z., 1931-33 and 1948-50, and chair-
man of the Congregational Union in
Queensland, 1948-49. From 1952 till
1954 he was president of the Congre-
gational Union of Australia and N.Z. —
the highest position to be attained by a
Congregationalist in these countries. He
was also chairman of the governors of
Cromwell College, University of Queens-
land, from 1952 until he retired from that
post, as well as from his Ipswich (Q.)
charge, in 1958.
'• •
The Westralian University’s Cruick-
shank-Routley Memorial Prize for 1959
has been won by 27-year-old William
Henry Hartley, a third-year law-student.
The prize—established in memory of
two student-leaders who were killed in
a car-smash—is awarded for outstanding
work and qualities of leadership in a
student. This year’s winner was a coun-
cillor of the Guild of Undergraduates,
former co-editor of the University news-
paper and students’ travel-officer for
three years. He was also Westralian
secretary for the Australian National
Union of University Students. He had
rowed for the University Boat Club for
the past three years.
HAROLD FINNIS, Director-Secretary
of the Royal Agricultural and Horti-
cultural Society of South Australia since
1926, formerly editor of the S.A.
“Journal of Agriculture” and general-
secretary of the Agricultural Bureau of
S.A. He’s just announced that he’s retiring
at the end of the year, after what
must have been a world-record tenure
of office.
Into the Silence:
At Broken Hill (N.S.W.), at 82, Robert
Hacking Calder, in his younger days an out-
standing amateur rider and horseman. He
went to the Boer War with Colonel Cameron’s
Scouts in the Ist Victorian Bushmen’s Contingent
and was at the relief of Mafeking and o£
Elands River.
In Sydney, at 59, Harold Graydon Conde,
C.M.G., chairman of the N.S.W. Electricity
Commission since 1950 and of the Army
Establishments Investigating Committee, 1945-47,
In Perth, Nurse Jessie Clifton, M.8.E., who
served as a nursing-sister with the A.I.F.
during War I, and was matron of Faversham
Military Convalescent Hospital in War 11.
In Brisbane, Dick Hill, a race-judge in
Queensland since 1926. Royal National Asso-
ciation ringmaster for the last 14 years, he
was also official judge for both Brisbane
Amateur Turf Club (Doomben, Albion Park)
and Ipswich Amateur Turf Club (Bundamba).
He was a former M.L.A. and Redcliffe aider-
man. Two clerks-of-course, two racehorses,
two trotters and a pair of show hacks led his
funeral cortege, with all riders in “colors.”
In Adelaide, at 82, Sir Henry Newman
Barwell, Premier and Attorney-General of
South Australia from 1920 to 1924, later a
Senator and then S.A. Agent - General in
London.
In England, at 71, Bruce Bairnsfather, who,
as a captain in the Royal Warwickshire
Regiment during War I, found laughter in the
trenches and made the world laugh with him
at “Old Bill” in his “Better ’Ole.”
At the R.G.H., Heidelberg (Vic.), Harry
Lindsay Coffey, who landed at Anzac with the
old 7th Battalion.


TWO VEGETABLES
1. Bill Spud
Plain working man,
Since his life began ;
No swell suits,
An old brown hat
On his sunburnt head, .
Heavy boots,
And shoulders bent that
Show the life he’s led.
Large family, and
Born to the land —
It’s [ in his blood :
Plain Bill Spud.
2. Mrs. Cabbage.
Friendly soul with a smile,
No style,
Goes to work and will
Until
In her declension
She gets the pension.
Has put on weight —
Waist run to fat ;
Never growls at fate,
Likes to chat,
A laugh
And a bit of chaff ;
No mind for deep thought,
She likes a drink —
Doesn’t care what people think :
Mrs. Cabbage, a decent sort.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.
ABORIGINALITIES
T>elay there, “B oro- B e 11 e” (B.
16/9/’59)! The Sari Rizah may
have left trochus, but certainly she
hasn’t furled her sails. Her owner, D.
Cummings, of Mackay (N.Q.), has
adapted her for carrying cargo to and
from the Whitsunday Islands under sail.
The Sari was built as recently as 1957
to a Thursday Island specification, and
was named after the owner’s daughter.
In her shell-lifting days she carried as
many as 20 Torres Strait Islanders (no
white divers were used), but as a trader
she will be worked by. three men: the
owner (who holds his master’s certificate
. and is also engineer), his old skipper
and one of the divers. Operating from
Mackay, the Sari will call at Lindeman,
Hayman, South Molle and Happy Bay.
The unsold shell that “Boro-Belle” re-
ferred to is still unsold and diving-relics
lie forlornly about the owner’s house ;
but it takes more than plastic-buttons
to make a good boat and its enterprising
crew swallow the anchor. We hope to
see her sails unfurl in Mackay Harbor
for many a long day yet. —“Tabba”.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Enforced by the arrival
of plastic-buttons, the abandonment of
trochus-shell fishing (B. 16/9/’59) will
hit very hard the native womenfolk in
the eastern islands of Torres Strait.
Trochus could be fished at depths of
sometimes not more than sft., which
enabled the women to earn more than
pin-money by working from dinghies
off their home-island reefs. Some binghi
belles learned to be good skin-divers.
The trochus-fleets served also as train-
ing-schools for youths, who learned to
seek the shell in comparatively shallow
depths before they graduated to the
mother-of-pearl fleets. In the early stages
of diving few the deeper-dwelling m.-0.-p.
shell the learners usually suffered severe
headaches till the day when the rupture
of a membrane somewhere behind the
“Once an advertising-man—always an advertising-man !"
nose was followed by a short interval
of profuse nasal-bleeding and the per-
manent disappearance of the headaches.
After this the apprentice was a fully-
fledged skin-diver.
* * * *
“Ymar”: It was so dry at Nhill (Vic.)
in early spring that galahs pulled up
newly-germinated wheat to suck moisture
from the shoots!
* * * *
“Zeyd”: It had been a long trip from
Melbourne, and the driver was finding
the snaky road from Tumbarumba
through Willigobung toward Tumut
something of a last straw. The row of
brightly illuminated cabins caused him
to bless the originator of the motel;
the uniformed attendant cheerfully
answered his inquiries for accommoda-
tion for the night: “Certainly, sir, so
long as you don’t mind being locked-in.
This is the Nott Afforestation Prison
Camp,”
“Carrara”: The Italian community at
Innisfail (Q.) has spent £5OOO on a
centenary gift to the State, a 20ft.-high
marble statue of a canecutter, stripped
to the waist ; it's being erected in the
main street of Innisfail. The sculptor,
Renato Baretta, ,is teacher at the
Academy of Arts, Carrara (Italy); he
did the work from photographs.
* * * *
“Tom H.”: Geographical prepositions
tB. 16/9/'59)7 On my return after an
absence of some years I made inquiries
of old mates, and was told that (a)
Bob “was out West” (Bourke); ( b )
Sam was “in the West” (Fremantle);-
and (c) George “had gone West” (dead).
Took not much notice till my Choom
mate asked me to explain.
* * * *
“North Esk”: The Bass Strait ferry
Taroona, which has been replaced after
a quarter-of-a-century’s service by the
up-to-date Princess of Tasmania, was
given rousing farewells when she made
her last departure from Devonport
(Tas.) before entering upon a new job
under Greek ownership, possibly in the
Adriatic. Purchase-price is said to have
been £63,000. Well known to thousands
of Strait-crossers, over the past 13 years
she has been the sole passenger-link
between Tasmania and the, mainland.
With advancing years she became tem-
peramental, and engineroom and other
troubles earned her the name of “The


*
O&nuuEeN THE Bu<u?er. anp the
Architbc-t tve pqnV think OUR, house:
lajilu o>£ F/NISH GP QEPOfZE HEKT
&PRJNG-, ' f


Old Marooner” because of false starts
and returns to port, stranded passengers
being forced to take to the air. One
Christmas - season three of my young
girl-friends who’d been saving-up for
a mainland visit came aboard on their
return-trip with only a few shillings
left in the stocking. Out in the bay
engine-trouble caused a turn-round back
into harbor. Another start also proved
abortive. Having to be at their nursing
and school jobs, the only way of
dodging an a.w.l. line-up was to board
a plane. It was a Saturday afternoon,
banks were closed, and their combined
resources didn’t even run to one ticket.
One of the girls dashed-off to the only
person she happened to know, to raise
a loan ; friend had no surplus cash
and raided the kids’ money-boxes, only
“ I thought you'd NEVER get here!"
just in time to allow the anxious trio
to clutch their luggage and streak for
the airport.
* * % *
“J.esmondene”: All-Australian matches
of Queensland hoop (B. 23/9/’59) com-
prise less than 10 per cent, of our lucifers.
The rest are imported “in splint,” which
is a match lacking only impregnation
and striking-head.
* * * *
“Deb-deb”: When Hartley County
Councillors at Lithgow (N.S.W.) criticised
council vehicle - costs, the employees
came - back with a long press - statement
critical of councillors. On the estimated
running-cost of £4 6s. a week for vehicles,
the letter asked: “Is this excessive? Ask
any commercial vehicle-user.” The letter
added: “If Councillor Morten or anyone
else can drive vehicles under the same
load-conditions as we do * and get any
more miles from the tyres, we will buy
his secret and sell it to tyre-manufac-
turers.”
* * * *
“Arcadian”: Geographical bloomers
on the “Service” page are rare, but unless
someone has shifted some 15,000 hilly
acres en bfoc there is one in relation to
Magnetic Island (N.Q.) (B. 16/ 9/ ’59).
During the years I lived on it Magnetic
was in Cleveland Bay, quite a distance
from Halifax Bay. Its nearest point to
the mainland by passenger-ferry was
Picnic Bay, some six-and-a-half miles
from the Townsville breakwater, its
nearest actual point being four miles
offshore from the old quarantine-station,
It was from Bremner Point that, hotly
pursued by some of the Magnetic Island
tribe—reputedly very “cranky fellers”
indeed —a Scandinavian woodcutter once
launched himself and family on a log
of the famed Magnetic Island pine, and
did a Kon-Tiki to end-up near the spot
now occupied by the Alligator Creek
meatworks.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: A Bulletin bird-
paragraph concluded with a modest
statement by its very readable author
that he knew not whether eagles hopped
or walked. Wedgetails do neither, but
move with a stiff-legged gait amusingly
remindful of a walking-race back-
marker who, calculating the severity of
his handicap and the non-adjacence of
any stewards, lifts both feet simul-
taneously well off the track.
* * * *
“Stromlo”: As part of the official
policy of “assimilation,” aboriginal girls
are to be trained in a residential school
in Darwin as hospital-assistants, nursing-
aids, teaching - assistants and house-
wives. Some of the lasses will be from
the remotest missions and Arnhem Land
settlements. But what’s going to be the
effect on their tribes, and on themselves,
when they return home? Or is it in-
tended that they should seek employ-
ment in Darwin and similar outposts
of civilisation?
* * * *
“Jay”: When my mate, in Borneo,
contracted an irritating skin-complaint
from contact with a jungle tree his
bearer advised him to use raw crab-meat.
This, applied to the blistering rash,
effected a quick cure. But the great
cure-all there is bear's liver. Rubbed on
the forehead, it knocks a headache ; on
the ankle, it eases a sprain; on the
throat, it beats a cold ; on the stomach,
it assures a desired pregnancy ; and on
the tongue —it will cure a nagging wife!
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Granting “Sackfair” his
opinion (B. 9/9/’59), I’ll second
“Narumee’s” (19/8/ ’59), that old-time
dungarees and modern jeans are alike
only in material. Dungarees were com-
paratively cheap, jeans comparatively
dear. Dungarees were funnel-legged,
slop-made over-trousers of blue or
khaki ; jeans are double-sewn, cuffed
and reasonably tailored trousers in their
own right and of divers colors. Jeans
are zipper-fastened throughout; an in-
vention not available to old-time
dungaree-makers. As for the compara-
tive cleanliness of the older article,
mine, in my ’prentice years of engineer-
ing, usually stood up for me to step into
them, supported by external layers of
graphite, red-lead, grease and dirt.
* * * *
~C lectric-fence operators may regard
as remote the possibility of any
farm-animal listening to the tick of the
current-shooter and thus deciding its
on-ness or off-ness (B. 2/ 9 / ’59). No
ticking is conveyed along the wire, and
in most cases it is so muffled in its
weatherproof container as to be inaud-
ible at two chains on a windless day.
About 99 per cent, of all restrainees
are cows, who feed often with the
electric-wire giving them, fairly fre-
quently, a minute tickle through the
short hairs on their neck-tops, and if
this tickle ceases because another cow
has with her horn hooked the wire off
an insulator “to earth” all sophisticates
will shoot-through pronto wherever they
are on the line.
Some dairyfarmers handicap this
bovine technique by clipping the top of
Buttercup’s neck. Others use a barb
for the lower wire. My cows have big
horns, and I hate flat batteries and
using the trocar before breakfast, so
my valued electric-fence is tenanted only
in daylight hours.
When makers of electric-fences in-
corporate a siren that sounds-off when
the line shorts I will resume night-
feeding.
JESMONDENE.


'T'hings were pretty tense when Wilsie,
the abo. chief witness for the
defence in a cattle-duffing case in which
Joe Jones was the accused, took the
box. A Bible was put into his hand,
but there was some doubt as to whether
he understood the significance of it.
“Wilsie,” said one of the bewigged,
“you know you must tell the truth?”
“Yes, Boss.”
“You know what will happen if you
don’t tell the truth?”
Wilsie’s eyes rolled. “My oath, Boss.”
“What will happen?”
“Joe Jones, he kick me guts out!”
Fir.
* * * *
“J.W.”: In the early 1900’s I applied for
a probationer job in a country hospital.
After examination by a committee of
three leading citizens I was appointed.
Visions of being a ministering angel
faded fast. I scrubbed floors, cleaned-out
lockers and scoured bedpans; washed
sundry sicko’s that hadn’t had a bath in
years, and deloused old hatters brought
in from the deep bush. There may have
been some salary—but I can’t remember
what it was —mine all went in fines.
• * * *
“Pastmaster”: All washing-up can be
avoided if you make yourself a stew-
sandwich, a dish I enjoyed in the Army
when caught without utensils. The final
refinement is to give the saucepan to
Fido to clean-up.
# * * *
“An Chuidh”: The Americans stand
to lose another of their purely American
words: the “moccasin” is identical in
construction and in name to the
mogaisean of the Scottish Highlander ;
like enough a Highlander merely re-
ferred to the redskins’ footwear by the
A most entertaining account of a
meeting with Henry Lawson at
Mallacoutta, when Henry was
there with Tom Mutch staying a
while with E. J. Brady in 1910, is
one of the engaging chapters in
B. S. Baxter Cook’s “Memoirs of
a Pioneer Pressman,” which begins
as a serial in next week’s
“Bulletin.” Another diverting
chapter gives a first-hand account
of an early rainmaking experi-
ment by a then famous and now
forgotten scientist.
name under which similar footwear was
known among his own people,
* * * *
“Kenyas”: Friends interested in
anthropology were treating me to a tape-
recording they had made in the remote
East of monotonous, teeth-edging,
ceremonial music. In came Tessa, the
old cat, who had been napping at the
bottom of the garden; she rubbed,
“My number-three, please.”
smooged and twirled around the legs of
the table the machine was on, then settled
down beside it wearing a seraphic look.
I was told this was usual when this
recording was played, but that she never
condescended to listen to any others.
BUILDING-TRADE REVOLUTION
A ustralia leads the world in the use
put to one of the most revolutionary
innovations ever developed in the build-
ing-trade. It, however, originated in the
U.S., and, like many another revolu-
tionary idea, it was conceived by a
layman.
An American oil-magnate, casually
watching a multi-story being built, noted
the wasted work: to build in concrete,
builders virtually constructed a wooden
building, then a concrete one, then pulled
the wooden one down! There must be
an easier way.
He knew the might of hydraulic-jacks
—they were capable of lifting thousands
of feet of drilling-gear from oil-shafts.
Surely they could be adapted to lift
concrete-floors bodily from the ground
to their various stories? With the assis-
tance of an architect, a method was
developed, and was used on jobs several
stories high.
At that point an Australian firm con-
tracted to use the system here, under
licence. The highest Lift-slab construc-
tion ever attempted in the U.S. went to
eight stories; Australian jobs have
already included two 16-floor buildings
and one 18.
The system is quite simple. Upright
steel columns Ift. square are bolted
down to the concrete foundations. Steel
collars are placed on the columns in
the manner of huge washers, a collar
for every story. The concrete ground-
floor is poured. It is sprayed with sili-
cate to prevent the next floor adhering
to it, then the next floor is poured—
around, and incorporating, the collar.
More silicate, then the next floor, and
so on until the full number of floors
lie upon one another like slices of toast.
Jacks are then mounted on top of every
column and worked from a switchboard.
The end of each jack passes through a
hole in the collar and attaches with a
ball-and-keyhole device to the underside
of the steel.
The jacks are started, and the top
floor is gradually raised to the extent
of the standing column (generally about
30ft.). It is temporarily anchored in
position by a steel wedge welded to the
column, and the next floor is brought
up, and the next, till all floors are sus-
pended, the first and second floors being
fixed permanently.
At this stage another 30ft. of upright
column is electrically welded to all the
initial ones, and the process goes on
again.
The method requires no scaffolding,
no concrete-forming; the concreters
work in safety on the ground, and the
whole lifting-crew consists of four men,
who average slightly better than one
floor a day. Thus, in less than two
working-weeks a building can rise 10
stojies and be ready for the external
curtain-walls and internal partitions to
be built on the fixed concrete floors.
The American patentees have sent
men here to get designs of the jacks and
switchboards the Australian firm has
perfected.
BRICK E.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquiiart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX.” Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
11. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. E. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
REINVESTMENT (AUST.), LTD.
Tnterest has been aroused in
Sydney by the flotation of
a new managed-investment
company, Reinvestment (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., which aims at
accumulating its investment-
income over a period of 15
years, reinvesting it tax-free
under the existing tax-law,
and paying, as a result,
generous dividends (in relation
to the original investment)
after 15 years.
Under the Commonwealth
income-tax law a public com-
pany pays no tax on dividends
received from another company
(which has already paid com-
pany-tax). Its own personal
shareholders pay tax accord-
ing to their particular rates on
divs. received by them. By
retaining dividends for 15
years and reinvesting them as
received, Reinvestment (Aust.),
Ltd., should be in a position
to accumulate a much larger
portfolio from an original
investment of any given
amount than a personal in-
vestor could do under the
same conditions.
“Reinvestment of non-tax-
able income,” claim the under-
writers, “plus the normal
market-appreciation to be ex-
pected on ordinary shares,
should produce a major capital-
gain at the end of 15 years.”
The plan, of course, has a
particular appeal for self-
employed persons who wish to
establish an income for their
retirement, at the same time
being in a position to sell their
shares for a capital sum if the
necessity arose. The shares
will be quoted on Australian
Stock Exchanges. Whilst the
market-value of Reinvestment
shares may not rise fully in
proportion to the increase in
the undistributed profits accu-
mulating, there seems to be no
particular reason why the
market-value should not be at
least as great as if the investor
had bought his own portfolio
of shares on the Stock Ex-
change, had paid tax on the
dividends, and had reinvested
the remainder. Best results,
however, would seem to be
offering to the investor who
does not sell but who holds
Reinvestment scrip for the full
15 years.
In the event of the liquida-
tion of a “closed-end trust,”
as these reinvestment concerns
“But thirty-pounds isn't a lot of money —you're ALWAYS
moaning about the pound being Worth five lousy bob!”
are called, shareholders in
them would apparently pay
tax on the accumulated profits
distributed, but not, perhaps,
on the capital-gains achieved
on realisation. But seem-
ingly liquidation is not con-
sidered as part of the normal
routine envisaged. The trust is
intended to go on after its
15-year period of major rein-
vestment as a managed-invest-
ment company still.
With funds invested by the co.
to give a tax-free yield of (say)
5i- p.c. p.a. it is estimated in
the Reinvestment prospectus
that they will more than double
in the 15 years, and that the
distribution that then might
be available to personal in-
vestors would be about 10^
p.c. p.a. (taxable in their
hands), after paying manage-
ment expenses estimated at
10 p.c. of dividend-income
during the first five years,
9 p.c. for the second five
years, and 8 p.c. for the
third five years.
The net tangible backing
(apparently based on market-
value of the investments) of
the Reinvestment shares will
be published periodically. As
in the case of any undistributed
profits of a public co., the
accumulated dividend-receipts,
forming part of the net
tangible backing, would be sub-
ject to tax, in most cases, if
distributed.
The prospectus makes the
point that Reinvestment shares
would form an appropriate
investment for the following:—
(a) The self-employed who have
to provide for future retirement;
( b ) Those whose employers do
not make retirement provision or
who are ineligible for pension-
funds through rules of entry—e.g.,
where entry age-limits apply;
(c) Those whose pensions will be
inadequate, but who can make an
investment on their own account;
( d) Those who wish to have
supplementary income available for
specific purposes at a future date —
e.g., for the secondary and tertiary
education of children;
(e) Trustees who are due to make
payments to beneficiaries at a future
date;
(/) Trustees who are obliged to
reinvest income on behalf of
minors;
(g) Those who are ineligible for
life-assurance;
00 Long-term investors, indivi-
dual or corporate, as a means of
participating in the growth of
Australia ;
(0 Those who wish to make an
investment for their children, grand-
children and others.
It is the intention of the
board to make a diversified
selection of investments, so
providing a wide participation
in the growth of Australia
during the next decade or so.
The co. will engage in sub-
underwriting in addition to its
direct investment policy, and it
will vary its investments from
time to time if thought fit.
Notwithstanding the com-
pany’s present long-term view,
if changed conditions should
arise (such as, no doubt, altera-
tion of the tax-laws in a way
to affect the co.’s reinvestment
policy fundamentally), the co.
may pay dividends before the
expiration of the 15-year
period.
Shares in Reinvestment
(Aust.), Ltd., will serve a
definite purpose, and will no
doubt be considered by many
people in conjunction with
term-assurances and other
savings, endowment and retir-
ing plans. The first issue of
shares will be 500,000 of £1
each, underwritten by C. A.
Ord and Minnett; Ernest L.
Davis and Co. ; Ralph W. King
and Yuill; William Tilley,
Hudson, Evans and Co. ; A. D.
Meares and Bishop ; A. B. S.
White and Co. ; Hattersley and
Maxwell; Mullens and Co.;
T. J. Thompson ; and Tonkin
and Plasto (all Sydney
’Change).
Allied Mills, Ltd.
Tn its term to August 31, 1958,
Allied Mills, representing a
merger of Mungo Scott,
Thorpes, Jackett’s Pty., Keys
and Co. Pty., two-thirds of
Mowbray Pty. (Daffodil mar-
garine) and other flourmilling,
baking and allied interests,
showed net profits equal to
44 p.c. on ord. capital (includ-
ing £BO,OOO appropriated to
plant-replacement reserve after
setting aside depreciation pro-
vision equal to 16 p.c. on the
written-down book-value of
plant).
Since then Allied Mills has
announced three new issues of
ord. shares at par, all in the
ratio of one-for-four.
Paid capital at last balance-
day was £715,648 in 200,000


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Fines) P.O. Box No. 1837 W
m
Ml
Wales
the
talk
to
should
You
The “Wales” people can certainly take a
load off your mind when you travel. They’ll
plan your itinerary, book your passage,
and assist with reservations, accommoda-
tion, passports, visas, and taxation clear-
ances. And, by the way, don’t carry a lot
of money with you: “Wales” travellers’
cheques and letters of credit are more
convenient and much safer.
*
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Over 1,000 branches and agencies throughout
Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New
Guinea, and three branches in London
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A5914C
5 p.c. cum. prefs. and 515,648
ords. of £1 each.
When all the new ord. money
comes in ord. capital will be
£1,007,125, plus the prefs.
The latest issue is payable
in full on December 8. Books
close on October 20.
Curiously, the latest issue will
be fully-paid before the pre-
vious one is fully-paid (final
call of 10s. share on that one
will be payable on February
28, 1960).
The rapid increase in ord.
capital over the past few
months would suggest that the
board of Allied Mills is con-
fident that its vigorous expan-
sion policy will pay-off suffi-
ciently to justify an enlarged
ordinary capital at a time
when many other concerns are
obliged to finesse with interest-
bearing finance in a way that
has been very discouraging to
equity-shareholders.
The management of Allied
Mills has shown itself to be
cautious and canny, albeit
vigorous in its recent diversi-
fication policy, which includes
the buying of bakeries; and
if profits on anything like the
scale shown in the recent past
can be established in the
future on the new capital,
investors in the fully-paids at
605., cum rights (or the con-
tribs. at 485.), should be well
satisfied with their investment
over the years.
Ford Sherington Bonus
A pparently chairman Ray-
mont Moore has given the
death-adder in the Ford
Sherington till a hard clout —
scotched the snake, in other
words, even if he hasn’t quite
killed it —and a one-for-two
bonus-issue is coming from the
co.’s nuggety resources, as well
as a 2\ p.c. cash-bonus added
to the usual 10 p.c. dividend.
The extra 2\ p.c. appears to be
an addition for 1958-59 only.
Ford Sherington has been
producing probably the snug-
gest balance-sheets and p.-
and-1. accounts of any co. its
size (£lOO,OOO ord. capital, plus
£45,550 in 8 p.c. prefs.) ever
since it was converted into a
public co. in 1947 ; but it isn’t
in the easiest of businesses, and
the board has bided its time
in making a bonus-issue.
The distribution, which the
sharemarket came to expect
during the present year, send-
ing the shares to 19s. just
before the announcement
(though the ss. shares could be
picked-up at Bs. during 1958),
is well within the co.’s
resources both asset-wise and
earnings-wise, and adds
another notch to this year’s
record of bonus-issues made
by companies of which Ray
Moore is chairman. He cer-
tainly wins the bonus-issue
Oscar for 1959.
Dear Transport
■Researchers of the Institute
of Public Affairs Victoria
estimate that transport-costs in
Australia are nearly £lOOO
million a year, or somewhere
near 3s. in each £ of sales.
This makes it one of our
greatest national problems, and
many investigations have
shown there is no ready solu-
tion because there are
numerous competing claims on
financial resources, many as
urgent as transport.
Australia’s road - transport
system is far from good. Roads
are pathetically inadequate,
railway-services inferior,
suburban bus services generally
inadequate ; this is not neces-
sarily a reflection on their
administrators but is indicative
of the limited capital available
to modernise them.
The sea-carriage of goods
and loading and unloading
compares unfavorably with
overseas countries, and in air-
transport, where Australian
standards are equal, airport
facilities are inadequate for the
new jet age.
Next to manufacturing,
transport employs most —about
380,000 directly in shipping,
railways, airways and road-
transport and another 280,000
in the manufacture, main-
tenance and supply of goods
to the transport industry,
adding-up to one in every six
jobs.
Rapid increases in pro-
ductivity in transport are diffi-
cult to achieve. Traditional
patterns of thought are ap-
parently more inflexible than
in, say, secondary industry. The
sparkling modern manufactur-
ing-plants springing - up on
every hand contrast with, the
decrepit, run-down transport
services. Much of it is under
governmental authorities and
therefore under political in-
, ,
Although roads are not pri-
marily its responsibility, the
Commonwealth has been find-
ing increasingly large sums to-
wards roads-works by State
and local-government bodies ;
yet the Federal Treasury esti-
mates that with new grants
total expenditure on roads will
still be only £720 million
during the next five years corn-
pared with £llOO million esti-
mated by the Transport
Advisory Council as the ex-
penditure neces sary to keep
pace with fast-growing road
j ra ff} c
’
“ 1S c^ear there is no easy
or spectacular solution to the
national transport problems,
How rapidly improvement can
be achieved depends largely on
the resources it will be prac-
ticable to devote to it. This
is one of the dilemmas posed


(INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT 1934 52)
in which -40% of the capital is owned by
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
w&
wttre a
4 7 0 per
per annum
YEARS
per annum
and
10
YEARS
Applications will be accepted for investment of £5O or any multiple thereof
in any or all of the currencies. Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
reserves the right to repay earlier. For conditions of repayment, including
premiums, see the prospectus.
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted
only on the printed form attached to the prospec-
tus. Copies of the full prospectus obtainable
from:—
OFFICES OF THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
OFFICES OF FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
UNDERWRITTEN BY THE ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN CORPORATION PTY. LTD.
by economic development on
the grand scale.
o n , . r .
Ba -bearing Fac ory
A Swedish and two English
companies, in a joint
enterprise, have bought for just
on £600,000 the bearing factory
established during the war by
the (government at Echuca
(Vic.).
Employment at the factory,
Echuca s largest, has been con-
sidered shaky lately, but the
new owners propose to set-out
vigorously developing an ex-
port trade.
The cos. are Ransome and
Maries Bearings (Aust.) Ltd.,
P,v F , M a "; b f ari H g %
in Australia sales ODrnpani&i)
England^ 0
s
In the Doldrums
n'rom L. Owen]
T\uring the greater part of
September, major drilling
activity on the Australian
mainland was at a stand-
still, to judge from an almost
complete lack of information
in the press.
In the case of some com-
panies—Wapet, for instance —
this silence is explainable, as
jt had been announced, follow-
jn g the termination of drilling
at the Frome Rocks No. 2
location, that the rig would be
moved to Derby for complete
overhaul and that no further
reports would be issued until
operations were resumed at a
new s j t6j t h e exact location of
which was under consideration,
[it has now been announced
that Wapet will return to
Exmouth Gulf in 1960.]
Th f the ]ack of
news from ol driLg-
~^
« «-e dale of .he las.
report in mid-September, the
drilling-well had reached a
depth of about 5600 ft. and had
encountered only small shows
of gas; these were inevitable
just above or within the coal-
measures penetrated by the
drill.
Another drilling - company
stated on September 8 that
the issue of reports would be
made by the separate com-
panies, which would involve
some delay. It was later stated
that its bore had got down
to 10,881 ft. on September 16,
predominantly red shale having
persisted, without recorded
change except for the sporadic
appearance of a little glauco-
nite, since 7435 ft.
Such a thick stratum —pre-
sumably of continental origin
—appears to have been quite
unanticipated and requires ex-
planation in more detail. In
both cases, a statement of the
position would be welcomed ;
in fact, it should be obligatory
as both of the wells are sub-
sidised.
In Western Papua, testing of
the upper formations in the
Puri well was in progress, and
the Bwata well had reached
1016 ft, at the beginning of
September. Normally, the
operating - company issues
reports only once a month, but
the lack of any interim state-
ment with reference to Puri
suggests that nothing of im-
portance had resulted from
the tests.
In Timor, attempts to re-
cover a parted drill-pipe in the
first half of September had
failed, and the drilling-group—
very wisely, in my opinion—
had suspended its operational
programme pending a review
of all relevant data.
It is of interest to record the
reaction of the sharemarket to
what is detailed above. The
prices of shares in the com-
panies which offered no reason
for the lack of press-releases
hardened, while those of shares
in the organisations which
offered a legitimate explana-
tion of their silence fell l
Samuel Allen Bid
'The £1 ordinary shares of
-*• Townsville merchants
Samuel Allen and Sons, Ltd.,
have risen from 265. to over
355. in a burst of takeover-
inspired buying.
At the request of the Bris-
bane Stock Exchange, a state-
ment was made by J. Flifcroft,
the chairman of directors. Mr.
Flifcroft “could give no
explanation whatever for the
sudden rise in the market-
value of the shares.”
With the establishment of
the Mt. Isa copper-refinery at
Townsville, it is evident that
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd., will use
this city as a base for its
expanding interests. In turn,
local merchants Samuel Allen
and Cummins and Campbell
will benefit from the resultant
business prosperity.
Drilling in Queensland
'T'he announcement by Santos
that the group intends
drilling a deep test-well at
Betoota, just inside the
Queensland border, has been
hailed by -some hopefuls as
prophetic.
Just 100 years ago Edwin L.
Drake made the first discovery
of commercial oil at Titus-
ville, Pennsylvania, and this
year Queensland, as well as the
oil-industry, is celebrating its
centenary.
Two other wells are on the
planning-boards for Queens-
land' —Associated Freney will
drill on Authority 56P in the
Bowen Basin, and Phillips
Petroleum intends putting
down a wildcat later this year.
Longreach Oil is at present
drilling outside Longreach.


Safe as the land you stand on!
Your money will EARN
107.
'per annum
For 3 years and over invested in the . . .
NEW £lOO,OOO ISSUE IN
FIXED DEPOSIT NOTES
With Absolute Safety. Your money is
absolutely and securely invested. There is
£165 security to every £lOO of depositors 7
money invested. Deposit monies rank ahead
of share capital for repayments.
With Maximum Return
10% per annum for 3 years and over.
9% per annum for 2 years and over.
8% per annum for 1 year and over.
With Availability. Your money is available on
request in an emergency.
Interest is paid quarterly.
Fixed Deposits are paid in full at maturity.
WRITE TODAY FOR A PROSPECTUS TO
CONSOLIDATED INVESTMENT
CO. LTD.
2nd Floor, 13-15 O'Connell St., Sydney. BW 2661
(10 lines).
YOUR NAME
ADDRESS
M49A/4
B 14/10
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
'T'he Jasper sensation and the
involvement of a building-
society in the affair have
shocked and frightened the
City, not least because the
announcements came during
the election-campaign. There
has been no major financial
scandal since before the war
and, happily, no succession of
causes celebres for nearly 30
years (Hatry in 1930, Lord
Kylsant in 1931, Kreuger and
Insull in 1932, and the attempt
to “corner” world pepper in
1933).
Building-societies, with their
long history of integrity and
service to the small saver —-
there were over 2000 of them
in England even in the 1860’s
—have escaped scandal, if not
always criticism, since Jabez
Balfour and his associates were
sentenced to long terms of
imprisonment in 1893-95.
(Here was an utter villain,
hypocritical and sanctimonious,
who extorted £6 million from
humble folk, making Non-
conformist ministers, chapel-
and temperance-workers his
agents.)
Yet, despite the tightening-
up of legislation following the
bucket-shop promoters, little
has been done to protect the
small investor against the un-
sound building-society. As the
law stands, any three adults
with £2O who can draw-up
acceptable rules can be regis-
tered as a building-society
and then invite deposits from
the public. For some time, the
financial press and the Building
Societies’ Association has, it
is true, warned the public
against the lure of high interest-
rates for deposits, explaining
that such rates can be earned
only by speculative and hazard-
ous reinvestment.
Men of Property
It is easy to scoff at the
gullibility of the public where
offers of easy money are con-
cerned. We laugh at the
naivety of the South Sea
Bubble prospectus and wonder
how people could be stupid
enough to be taken-in. Yet
some of the recent property-
share new issues have been
almost as nebulous. Very
many who would not consider
themselves unsophisticated
have ignored the axiom,
“Investigate before you invest.”
The fact is that no one likes
to be left out of a good thing.
Shareholders have made a lot
of money out of takeover bids
and especially out of property-
shares following the passing
of the Rent Act and the easing
of credit-controls. And there
was still “plenty of steam” in
the market. Unfortunately, no
mechanism has yet been
devised that can determine
when a boom is at peak or is
liable to an unexpected check
as when, for instance, over-
confident financiers bite-off
more than they can chew.
Two aspects of the Jasper
affair mitigate its sensation:
the net is not so wide as to
implicate leading personalities
in the City; and building-
societies as a whole have
retained the confidence of their
subscribers.
Meanwhile, inquiries are
proceeding and new legislation
is certain to follow. The
Building Societies’ Act of 1874
has only two amendments (in
1894 and 1939). The 1894 one
was passed after the Balfour
collapse and requires societies
to make a strict return of all
advances in excess of £5OOO.
There’s a loophole here, for
there is nothing to prevent the
formation of separate com-
panics (the Jasper Group has
451) under the same control.
One mystery, at least, has-
been solved. The City was
very puzzled to know where
Mr. Jasper, who is a refugee,
got his money. The cost of
Lintang Investments was £7
million, and that of Ely
Brewery nearly £2 million. It
was believed that he had
sources on the Continent, but
only for a comparatively
small proportion. The rest,
as we now know, came from
the State Building Society to
the tune of about £7 million
out of total assets of about
£lO million. Mr. Jasper func-
tioned as banker for Mr.
Grunwald, and Mr. Grunwald
as solicitor for Mr. Jasper as
well as, through his firm, for
the State Building Society.
This innocent-sounding con-
cern has no connection with the
State, and little, it would seem,
with a building-society, as
generally understood, for it
appears to have acted as a
finance-company.
COOKING WITH WINE
By Harriet Goodwin
(Author of “How to Cook with Wine”)
"pooD and wine are natural
team-mates. That is to
say, wine used in cooking en-
hances the flavor of food more
than any other seasoning,
except salt, and brings out the
full flavof of the other in-
gredients, improving good food
and making ordinary food
taste better. Besides making
the dish more appetising and
nourishing, wine is a definite
aid to digestion. As the alcohol
all evaporates in cooking,
children and invalids, too, can
enjoy these new and piquant
flavors.
A little sherry poured into
any tinned soups just before
serving will work wonders.
Meats which are tough and
stringy can be made tender and
delicious by marinating (soak-
ing in wine) for an hour or
two before cooking. This is
economical, because it means
that cheaper cuts can be used.
Steak marinated in wine for
an hour or so before grilling
becomes much more tender and
gains a delicate flavor,
When using wine in cooking
never have the flame too high,
Wherever possible avoid boil-
j n g, because this destroys the
delicate flavor of the wine,
Don ’ t be tempted to put jn
more w ine than is set-out in
a rec j pe The finished dish
should never have an over-
whelming taste of wine, merely
a slight piquant flavor
A «• . 7 .
Any light table-wine left-
ovfr can be kept for a con-
slderable lf a s P ot or
1S P oureb into tbe
bottle before recorking this
| ea £ lt? . keeping out the air.
Such wine can then be used
? n y ,f° r coobin 8’ °f course, but
f ° r thl " P ur P ose 1S
a • V ine 111 a c ?° P a< r e :.
Aluminium may be used for
cooking with wine, but never
for marinating.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Czech Philharmonic
Three features become im-
mediately apparent at a first
hearing of this orchestra from
Prague: the wonderfully sus-
tained vitality and fine musi-
cianship of its principal con-
ductor, Karel Ancerl; the disci-
plined, split-second responses
of each choir and each indi-
vidual instrument; and the
sheer physical size of it—llo
players; 25 per cent, more
than the local resident
orchestra especially when
passages are played fortissimo
by the full orchestra, as, for
instance, in the final eight bars
of the night, when the merry
pranks of Till Eulenspiegel
bring that wayward rogue to
the gibbet. The clarity of the
massed brasses was a revela-
tion.
Ancerl, conducting without a
score throughout last Saturday
night’s concert at Sydney Town
Hall, began with a vibrant,
ebullient account of the over-
ture to “The Bartered Bride”
—an essay in rustic revelry,
with the horns conspicuous in
striking notes of joy that were
almost waggish.
Dvorak’s “New World”
Symphony became, under An-
cerl’s baton, a complete fusion
of American Deep South musi-
cal derivatives and Bohemian
idioms. After an easy, master-
ful development and inter-
weaving of the multiple themes
of the first movement, Ancerl
went on to draw a deep stream
of lyricism from the largo, for
which the English-horn pro-
duced a tone of melting beauty
for the famous tune, to be
followed immediately by
beautifully integrated work
from the woodwinds.
Dvorak’s musical picture of
American life was brought out
in vivid colors in the scherzo
and concluding allegro, both of
which were driven along with
nervous energy and brilliant
correlation. The reading was
marked by crisp and clean
entries and a lovely balance
between the choirs.
Some of the hardest work of
the night went into the First
Symphony of Shostakovich—
and with the least reward. The
composer himself has given it
out .that “there can be no
music without ideology.” But
symphonic polemics are hard
to find in this work.
He begins it on a note of
high humor, with some witty
episodes for woodwinds and
upper strings. Bui the phase
is short-lived. Nurtured in
“Of course it's effective —but is it ART?”
revolution, Shostakovich
simply had to buck the bour-
geois methods by reversing the
classical order ; so he put the
scherzo before the slow move-
ment. But it makes no differ-
ence overall. The revolution
peters-out as he falls back into
conventional patterns obviously
owing something to Glazounov,
Rimsky-Korsakov and even
Tschaikowsky. The work’s
real weakness is the lento —a
piece of introspection too
diffuse and long-winded for its
febrile theme. But the work
of the flutes in the trio of the
scherzo, the precision work of
the first-violins in the allegretto,
and the kettledrum solo were
notable.
Strauss’s “Till Eulenspiegel”
is a colorfully-caparisoned war-
horse for any orchestra to
mount and prance to a
triumphant conclusion. The
episodes of this grimly mocking
piece of musical humor were
spun -in what can only be
described as abandoned pre-
cision, with its jigsaw pieces
falling into exact place at high
speed—an exhilarating example
of music-making at its best.
*l* ❖ ❖
Sohopia
[From liondon]
Prostitution may be as old
as time, but it has not, until
recently, been considered good
material for light fantasy on
the stage. “Irma la Douce,”
despite the sordid Parisian
background, is a morality-play
with music on the power of
True Love to win through.
An English counterpart, “The
Crooked Mile” (Cambridge
Theatre), has now been
launched at great expense and
is doing well.
The irony of the situation is
that the public acceptance in
normal conversation of the
prostitute’s existence coincides
with desperately bold legisla-
tion to sweep her from the
streets. It remains only to
state as fact that respectable
and moral audiences are
nightly laughing at jokes and
situations which at one time
would have scandalised mixed
company; and, to be fair,
there is no feeling of unseem-
liness or unhealthiness.
The essential difference is
that, while Noel Coward
appeared to be very daring
with an x innocuous lyric
(“Ladies of the Town” in
“Bitter Sweet,” for example),
Peter Wildeblood’s uninhibited
lyrics and jokes come over
with a simplicity that i$ quite
without innuendo.
j jf;
Nevertheless, the venue and
what passes for the plot,, are
strange choices for a carefree
musical. Even stranger is,the
final result. Mr. Wildebjpod
has, no doubt, been influenced
by “Irma la Douce,” by Arijsto-
phanes’s “Lysistrata,” by recent
legislation and, at the very end,
by “French Without Tears.”
His collaborator, Peter Green-
well, has composed tuneful and
more-than-competent music.
And the French producer, Jean
Meyer, has many touches of
clever individuality. But the
tone of the show is the tradi-
tional English musical comedy.
Soho low-life. A chorus of
street-walkers. A demonstrably
evil, reefer-smoking baron of
vice. A not-so-young woman
ironmonger, given to shop-
lifting, and living uneasily
with an ex-convict. A child-
like young American (tenor)
looking for a site for a chain-
store and, of course, seeing no
evil in the surroundings.
The setting might as well
be Monte Carlo. The charac-
ters, though very much
“darker” than those of
innumerable London musicals
long since forgotten, are the
same underneath. They sing
love-songs, are deeply senti-
mental and full of saccharine
pathos. They speak their lines
in the same calculated style,
with deliberate pauses before
the wisecracks. The chorus
has the same girlish shriek for
horror as for delight. The
whole affair, in fact, is a piece
of inconsequential nonsense
which, although given local
Sohopian color, is as remote
from Soho as it is from life,
where criminals’ hearts are of
baser metals than gold.
Little Theatre
Kevon Kemp’s production
of O’Neill’s “Desire Under the
Elms” for the Sydney Theatre
Club (Adyar Hall) is, within
its severe physical limitations,
one of the most interesting
little-theatre essays of the year.
“Essay” is the operative word:
the producer uses it in his
programme-note, adding that
its aim is to demonstrate
“O’Neill’s true stature” as a
writer of classical tragedy.
Thus the production is an
argument on style. There is
little attempt to make the


mmrnm
HASTINGS PEERING
FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LIMITED
Subscribed Capital, £1,000,000 : Paid-up Capital, £775,000
Assets exceed £1,820,000
TERM DEPOSITS
Bearing interest at the following rates per annum: —
3 months 5%
6 months . . 5V2%
9 months 6%
12 months 6Vi%
18 months and over ... 7%
INTEREST PAYMENTS:
Quarterly, at the end of March
— June — September — Dec ember.
Total tangible assets as stated in the
Audited Balance Sheet at 30.6.59
LESS: Secured Liabilities
Unsecured Liabilities
Net tangible assets
£1,822,926
£245,035
776,694 1,021,729
£801,197
G. T. Hartigan & Co., Chartered Accountants
Registered under the Public Accountants’ Registration Act 191,5, as amended
SALES FINANCING OF FAMOUS PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY THE
HASTINGS DEERING GROUP OF COMPANIES
FORD Cars, Commercial Vehicles : FORDSON Tractors
CATERPILLAR Diesel Tractors and Equipment
LANZ Tractors : JOHN DEERE Agricultural Machinery
HYSTER Materials Handling Equipment
LISTER Engines
A.E.C. Trucks and Buses.
DEPOSITS MAY BE WITHDRAWN ON 30 DAYS' NOTICE. ~~
► Complete printed details, with Balance Sheet and Application Forms, from:
HASTINGS DEERING
FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LIMITED
William and Crown Streets, Sydney. Telephone: FA 0322 (33 lines)
AND ALL MEMBERS OF SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
MAIL THIS COUPON ••••••••••••
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.,
G.P.O. Box 4333, SYDNEY
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, full details of
your terms deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS...
HD 58?
characters individuals: well-
nigh stripped of idiosyncrasy,
they are enlarged into puppet-
symbols of fate-defying pas-
sions, or reduced to chorus-like
“parts.” The next step, one
feels, would be the donning
of masks.
At a time when every second
producer in Sydney is plaster-
ing plays, no matter what their
content, with all sorts of
irrelevant and often ill-con-
ceived “method” business, this
outward approach is refresh-
ing and liberating. It also
boldly reopens the questions
whether O’Neill’s concept of
tragedy is valid in the modern
world, and whether his ex-
pression of it is adequate.
But it by no means clinches
the arguments; for it is the
only real idea in the produc-
tion, and with it the actors
tend to beat the contours out
of the play and level it up to a
plane of loud passion through-
out. Only Barbara Dunlop, as
the patriarch farmer’s young
bride whose love for her step-
son is the tragic spring,
managed anything like a de-
velopment of stature. James
Quinn and Ronald Curran,
as father and son, drew their
parts immediately to full
height, and their resultant in-
ability to grow with the action
finally gave an opposite im-
pression of shrinkage.
But as a whole the produc-
tion never lacks drive and
spirit: if it remains an essay
it is an essay well worth
making—and noting.
Artbursts
Drew and Digby
William Drew, from New
Zealand, and Desmond Digby,
from Melbourne, are most
pleasantly filling Sydney’s
Clune Galleries with paintings
and decorative panels. Drew’s
panels, the surfaces of which
shine (sometimes disconcert-
ingly) with a special plastic
coating, are pleasant indeed:
he is effective in darker tones,
as in “Minotaur,” a splendid
hunk of charging beast in very
dark greens, with the figure
outlined in white as in a cave-
painting ; or “Etruscan Horse,”
traditional and swirling.
“Etruscan Warrior” is rich in
color, stylised but extremely
decorative; and there is a
wonderful dark “Cockerel”
with flowing feathers. All of
them, in terms of decoration,
are first-class.
Digby’s paintings are mini-
atures, brilliantly colored and
finely etched. He has very
pleasant moments with his
clown and harlequin subjects,
as in “Clown With Rose,”
where the face is merely hinted
at, and “Inquisitive Clowns,”
which shows three sad-faced
figures peering at nothing ; and
he is sharply and neatly ob-
servant with marshes, weeds,
cornflowers and chrysanthe-
mums. “Chicken Wire and
Weeds” is simply that, but the
barren wire running across a
yellow-black marsh is beauti-
fully executed.
Gladys Owen
Within the limits of delicate
color applied to a single sub-
ject, Gladys Owen’s water-
color tenements, cottages and
terraces at Sydney’s Macquarie
Galleries are, like some of


Now Open!
THE
GOVERNMENT-
GUARANTEED
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
5%%
LOAN
For 7, 10 or 25 years
The Loan offers maximum security to every investor —
The New South Wales Government unconditionally
guarantees principal and interest.
Your investment will earn £5/5/- per cent, annually through-
out the term selected— 1, 10 or 25 years. As this amount
would earn only £3 per cent, annually in savings bank
interest, it is easy to see why the Loan is extremely profitable
as well as absolutely safe.
Your Loan investment will be quickly arranged:—
At any office of the—
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
9 Bank of New South Wales;
9 Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited;
9 Or through a Stockbroker;
9 Or at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
THE
Underwritten l»y
RALPH W. KING & YUILL ERNEST L. DAVIS & CO.
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
Missing Friend
IN the estate of WILLIAM BRADLEY,
late of Gortamney, Tobermore, County
of Londonderry, Northern Ireland,
Farmer, deceased. Any person or
persons claiming to be a relative of the
abovenamed deceased should communi-
cate with the undersigned Solicitor,
when they may hear of something to
their advantage.—D ERM O T ’ S.
BADGER, Solicitor, Broad Street,
Magherafelt, Co. Londonderry, N.
Ireland.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Matrimonial Causes.
TO CLIFFORD ALEXANDER BOYCE
formerly of 69 Parker Street Coota-
mundra in the State of New South Wales
and of C/o No. 4 Power Station Mt.
Beauty in the State of Victoria. —TAKE
NOTICE that PATRICIA BERYL
BOYCE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4334 of 1958 under Part 111 A of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1945-1955
(Commonwealth of Australia) on the
ground of desertion during three years
and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 30th day of December
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
free of charge from MESSRS. DAVID S.
DIND & CO., Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh
Street Sydney.—C. A. 11. HARMS,
Registrar.
Mendelssohn’s music, satisfying
and quietly romantic.
A slight but genuine lyricism
marks her work; her chief
quality, though, is a fineness
of line and charming use of
color, particularly proved by
the curve of cottages in
“Underwood Street, Padding-
ton” and the coalescence of
house and background trees
in “On Darling Point.”
“Dowling Street, Moore Park,”
is a nice bit of composition,
for the tall, gaunt building is
slightly off-centre, enabling an
effective use of sky-space.
Occasionally, as in , “Jones
Street, No. 1,” romanticism
tends to get the upper hand ;
but in general the watercolors
are never more than slightly
honeyed, and are well worth
inspection.
Films
“The Diary of Anne Frank”
Working under one of the
greatest of cinematic difficul-
ties—an enclosed setting which
severely restricts physical
action director - producer
George Stevens has wrought a
tense, compassionate and
beautiful film out of the diary
kept by the 13-year-old girl
who, with members of fier
own and another Jewish
family, hid from the Gestapo
for two years in the attic of
an Amsterdam spice-factory.
The film ends with the last
entry in the diary, which was
found in the attic long after
Anne and the others had been
captured and sent to a concen-
tration-camp, where she died.
With keen insight into the
mind of a sensitive girl,
Stevens develops a clear pic-
ture of Anne emerging tenta-
tively from an intelligent child-
hood to an unusually early
maturity fertilised by much
enforced introspection. With
faultless judgment he has
leavened the basic pathos with
touches of gentle humor ; and
he doesn’t forget that bitter
clashes and bursts of temper
are inevitable when unremit-
ting fear hangs over a set of
people forced to endure each
other for month after month.
Millie Perkins, with her
enormous dark eyes aftd sensi-
tive features, brings the diary-
author convincingly to life;
whether suggesting Anne’s
quiet courage and unwavering
faith in a world gone crazy,
the awakening of early love,
or the deep understanding
which binds her to her father,
she never strikes a false note.
The patient, wise and gentle
father is skilfully played by
Joseph Others
contributing sound perform-
ances are Ed Wynn, as the
testy old bachelor-dentist;
Diane Baker, as Anne’s sister ;
Gusti Huber, as the mother ;
Richard Beymer, as the 16-
year-old boy; and Shelley
Winters and Lou Jacobi, as his
clashing parents.
At Sydney Century.
*** £♦
Other recent releases in
Sydney include “Further Up
the Creek” (Victory), in which
dithery naval-lieutenant David
Tomlinson gets into hilarious
strife with much the same
shrewd-head crew who (as in
the earlier film, “Up the
Creek”) audaciously use their
craft as a private money-
spinner this time taking
selected tourists to Algeria;
“Holiday for Lovers” (Regent),
using a feeble plot about a
New York psychiatrist (Clifton
Webb) trying to discipline a
rebellious teenage daughter as
a pretext for taking the audi-
ence on a glossy Cook’s-tour
of some South American
cities; and “The Legend of
Tom Dooley” (G.U. Theatres),
a fair-average tale about three
Southern soldiers who, not
knowing the American Civil
War is over, shoot some
Northern soldiers and are
thereafter hunted down and
wiped out.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd.
Wool prices continued their downward
drift in Elder Smith’s past year. At
its lowest register in ten years, the average
overall price of wool last season fell 22
p.c. below that of the preceding year,
and total realisations were lower at
£295.7 million (£337.8 million in 1957-58).
Fortunately the effect was partly offset by
the greatest clip ever shorn. The drop,
which might otherwise have been catast-
rophic, assumed less serious import at
£42.1 million.
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd., has interests
in all States (the co. operates through
208 branches and sub-branches in Aus-
tralia) and also in Great Britain. Its
story reaches back to the first half of the
19th century, and its name is now be-
come a household word throughout Aus-
tralia. It is the largest woolbroker and
stock-and-station agent in the Common-
wealth. Its geographical breadth gives
it an insurance against seasonal difficul-
ties, and its substantial shipping, charter-
ing, insurance, airways and general
merchandising activities are also stabi-
lisers.
Last term Elder’s handled 763,494
bales of wool (up 45,620 bales), equal
to 16.12 p.c. of all wool receivals, and
sold 769,526 bales (up 58,339 bales),
equal to 16.06 p.c. of all wool sales. A
record for the co., the sales were the
highest,. in quantity, ever made by an
Australian woolbroker. Lower prices,
however, cut wool turnover by almost
20 p.c. The golden fleece, already some-
what tarnished, became drabber still, and
returned the co. only £45,868,565, as
against £57,252,560 in 1957-58 and
£74,186,213 in 1956-57. Repercussions
were felt throughout the organisation,
but primarily affected those departments
directly associated with the man-on-the-
land. Rural spending-power was seri-
ously curtailed, and demand for property,
merchandise and other commodities
declined:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Wool .. .. £74,186,213 £57,252,560 £45,868,565
Merchandise . . 24,107,485 22,954,989 20,814,364
Livestock . . 32,864,371 27,058,213 31,471,888
Real estate .. 5,971,989 6,010,283 4,952,499
Skins and hides 2,262,550 1,882,793 1,769,263
Gradually, however, a growing popu-
larity for Australian beef on the U.S.
market—as a result of negotiations with
the U.K., which gave Australia unre-
stricted licence to export lower grades
of beef—lifted demand and prices for
beef-cattle. Sales of cattle and sheep
by the co. were higher than ever, live-
stock turnover rising from £27,058,213 to
£31,471,888, and to some extent counter-
ing the reduced earnings from wool, land,
etc.
An improvement was recorded in
receivals of skins and hides last term,
but the co. failed to sustain the previous
year’s turnover. Relatively poor prices
prevailed for most of the period, and the
sharp Recovery at the close of the year
came too late.
Insurance business rose substantially,
premium income lifting 15 p.c. (£111,041)
to £839,716. Shipping results were a
shade better. Recently-eased import-
restrictions and anticipated heavier
exports tend to make prospects for the
current year a little brighter. Elder’s
chartering activities suffered a severe
decline, but, with the world-wide shipping
depression unabated, this was to be
expected.
The co. is agent or booking-agent for
most Australian and principal overseas
shipping- and air-lines. Business increased
during the year by over 20 p.c.
But total turnover, £110,751,413 (all
departments), showed a substantial de-
cline of £8,809,665, following the drop
of £16,33.1,536 in the previous year. The
drop can be attributed, almost entirely,
to the fall in wool prices over the two
seasons. Published accounts show gross
income from trading £909,869 higher at
£6,770,094, and investment income up
£63,010 at £341,075. Costs, strictly con-
trolled, continued their upward march,
wages, etc., claiming an extra £453,089
and expenses an extra £348,801.
The £633,847 profit (down £71,274),
after laud, income and payroll tax
£814,624 (up £5579) and depreciation
£498,963 (up £29,633) represented a
return on share-capital of 11.9 p.c. com-
pared with 13.2 p.c., 16.6 p.c., 16.1 p.c.
and 20.8 p.c. back to 1955, the div.-
rate remaining at 10 p.c. in accord with
the lower earnings:
Parent 00. Only.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1954.. 648,854 12 p.c. = 339,156 309,698 2,559,515
To provident fund, £42,823 .. ..2,516,692
Share-premiums, £847,890 .. ..3,364,582
1955.. 810,191 12 p.c. = 434,002 376,189 3,740,771
To provident fund, £52,554 .. .. 3,688,217
Share issue exes., etc., £64,108 ..3,624,109
Share-premiums, £415,045 .. .. 4,039,154
1956.. 797,783 11 p.c. = 545,254 252,529 4,291,683
To provident fund, £38,431 .. .. 4,253,202
Share-premiums, £285,732 .. ..4,538,984
1957.. 882,542 12 p.c. = 636,547 245,995 4;784,979
To provident fund, £25,805 .. .. 4,759,174
Share-premiums, £18,013 . . . . 4,777,187
1958.. 705,121 10 p.c. = 532,660 172,461 4,949,648
To provident fund, £13,151 .. .. 4,936,497
Share-premiums, £4973 . . . . 4,941,470
1959.. 633,847 10 p.c. = 533,666 100,181 5,041,651
In 120 years of trading Elder’s has only
once failed to pay a div., last term’s
10 p.c. leaving the average rate for the
past decade at 11.4 p.c. p.a. Undistri-
buted profits went to reserves, which;
together with £4973 of share-premiums
rose £105,154 to £5,041,651.
In the last four years Elders has
absorbed Commonwealth Wool and
Produce Co., Ltd. (Sydney), N.E.N.C.0.,
Ltd. (Newcastle), Moreheads, Ltd. (Bris-
bane), along with a number of smaller
woolbroking concerns, and has almost
doubled its all-ord. paid capital. Share-
holders were last asked for fresh funds
in 1955, new scrip being offered (three-
for-five) at a 50 p.c. premium. Last year
saw the issue of 16,575 shares to the
co/s staff at a premium, the capital struc-
ture of the co. expanding slightly to
reach its present dimension £5,337,879.
Financially the co. is well equipped, to
cope with the inevitable fluctuations in
seasonal conditions and price-levels:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital ~ £5,305,637 £5,327,934 £5,337,879
Reserves ... 4,759,174 4,936,497 5,041,651
Deposits .. 1,654,467 2,007,701 2,118,011
Creditors . . 13,081,683 13,769,241 15,100,634
Due to subsids. 482,929 430,630
Tax provision. . 1,073,376 800,208 705,628
Final divs. .. 371,395 266,397 320,272
£26,728,661 £27,538,608 £28,624,075
Freehold
properties ... 2,182,158 2,518,563 2,415,874
Leasehold
properties .. 1,485 1,299 10,034
Plant, fittings 442,048 456,305 648,151
Stocks .. 2,270,090 2,892,490 2,206,299
Advances, etc. 11,‘504,181 11,461,584 13,888,391
Due by subsids. 818,727 2,697,386 742,671
Shares subsids. 2,217,231 2,235,453 1,181,254
Shares in other
cos. .. 301,510 378,761 176,719
Govt, bonds, cash 6,991,231 4,906,767 7,154,682
Goodwill .. 200,000
£26,728,661 £27,538,608 £28,624,075
The most significant change in the
balance-sheet last year, arose from the
transferred trading of the three pastoral
subsidiaries. As a result amounts due by
subsidiaries (net) settled from £2,266,756
to £742,671 and advances (which include
trade debtors) rose by £2,436,807 to
£13,888,391. These two sets of figures
are in large measure an indication of
clients’ reliance on Elder’s banking
department, and reflect, in their com-
bined and upward movement, the
increased extent to which accommoda-
tion was made available in the face of
last year’s declining rural incomes.
Creditors at £15,100,634 (up £1,331,393)
consist in the main of “clients’ credits,”
and, with deposits £2,118,011 (term,
deferred, fixed and other, but not short-
term) constitute the other side of the
banking-department’s activities.
Stringent control brought stock-values
to £2,206,299 (down £686,191). Govern-
ment bonds, cash, etc., rose by £2,247,917
to £7,154,682. The adjustment in value
of shares in other cos. follows the pro-
gressive transfer of subsidiary co. assets
to the parent co. in anticipation of the
formal winding-up of those cos. This
item fell from £378,761 to £176,719.
Of shareholders’ funds (£10,379,530)
only £6,598,627 is tied-up in fixed assets,
investments and stocks ; the balance is
in current assets, for the most part
interest-earning advances to clients.
Theoretical working-capital bulks large
at £7,905,213 (up £960,959).
It seems certain now that Australia’s
1959-60 wool-clip will be a record. The
quantity of wool to be received into
brokers’ stores is placed at 4,963,000
bales. This season’s wool-selling pro-
gramme opened strongly. Widespread
competition lifted opening quotations
about 12i p.c. above June closing levels.
But since then prices have tended to
level-off. In a tricky field, conservative
estimate has this season s average price
about 12 p.c. above that for 1958-59.
There is no doubt as to Elder s ability


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALIEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
to “ring” the national shed this season,
and it is almost certain that the co. will
keep its “comb” full of wool as well.
But whether the champion’s tally will
earn him a proportionate profit is another
question and one open to individual
judgment. Investors, however, are not
being unduly optimistic in expecting an
improvement, and hope is being expressed
tangibly on the Stock Exchange by offers
of 275. for the £1 ords. paid to 12s. At
this price the yield is £4 Bs. lOd. from a
10 p.c. div.
On conservative book-values (freeholds
are probably worth at least double the
amount at which they appear in the
accounts) the co. showed 38s. 2d. in net
asset backing at balance-date for every
£1 of share-capital.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd.
of the Sunshine State’s two major
breweries, the Queensland had
another successful year, edging its earn-
ings upwards, and pulling a handy
£50,000 out of the bag.
Beer-consumption has been slowly but
steadily climbing, in. spite of the high
excise, and output of beer in Australia
reached 233-million gallons in 1957-58
(221-million gals, in 1956-57).
In addition to producing draught-beer
and running a number of hotels, Queens-
land Brewery markets two popular
brands of bottled ales (Bulimba Gold
Top and Bulimba Pilsener), and makes
Red Top stout and Blue Jacket
Normanby rum. Its agency lines include
Johnnie Walker whisky, Corio 5-Star
whisky, Vickers gin, Tintara wines and
brandy and V.O.K. liqueurs.
Despite the retarding effect on sales of
the 9s. lOd.-a-gallon duty on beer (and
945. a proof-gallon on spirits), the net
profit from trading and investments for
the year ended June 30, 1959, was £5356
up at £299,580:
, —Dividends—., V
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 54 p.c. 7 p.c. serves. serves.
1952.. 127,730 10,958 76,295 40,477 472,674
1953.. 138,554 10,958 84,449 43,147 515,821
From contingencies prov’n, £lOO,OOO 615,821
Profit sale assets, £10,365 .. .. 626,186
8 p.c.
1954.. 180,048 10,958 108,350 60,740 .686,926
Profit sale assets, £18,700 .. .. 705,626
From contingencies prov., £lOO,OOO 805,626
1955.. 213,785 10,958 132,157 70,668 876,294
1956.. 207,295 10,958 144,061 52,276 928,570
1957.. 267,524 10,958\ 161,561 95,005 1,023,575
1958.. 294,224 10,958 174,061 109,205 1,132,780
Profit sale assets, excess provisions
written-back, £50,000 .. ..1,182,780
1959.. 299,580 10,958 174,061 114,561 1,297,341
The profit was arrived at after setting
aside £159,671 for depreciation (up
£6599) and providing an undisclosed
amount for taxation and contingencies.
After satisfying the unchanged pref.-div.
requirements (£10,958), the showing on
ord. capital was £288,622, equivalent to
an earning-rate of 13.3 p.c. The ord. div.
was kept steady at 8 p.c., leaving £114,561
for reserves. The co. added another
£50,000 (described as “surplus on the
sale of certain assets and other excess
provisions”) to the kitty, pushing it up to
£1,297,341, and leaving pleasant con-
jectures of further undisclosed reserves
up its sleeve.
There were few changes in the finan-
cial structure. Paid-up ordinary capital
remained at £2,175,766, divided into
1,800,766 f.-p. 20s. ords. and 750,000 con-
tributing ords. paid to 10s.
Directors anticipate calling the 10s.
balance outstanding on the contributing
shares by December 1, 1959. This will
bring paid ordinary capital to £2,550,766.
There are also 199,234 5| p.c. 20.
prefs.:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £199,234 £199,234 £199,234
Ord 2,175,766 2,175,766 2,175,766
Reserves .. .. 1,023,575 1,132,780 1,297,341
Creditors .. .. 1,197,556 1,162,552 1,162,767
Final divs. .. 92,510 92,510 92,510
£4,688,641 £4,762,842 £4,927,618
Brewery, hotels,
plant, etc. .. 3,685,855 3,788,025 3,868,471
Stocks .. .. 608,467 592,727 592,761
Book debts .. 387,179 375,060 459,356
Investments .. 7,140 7,030 7,030
£4,688,641 £4,762,842 £4,927,618
Apart from the £164,561 increase in
reserves, the only other significant
balance-sheet movements concerned fixed
assets (up £80,446) and book-debts (up
£84,296).
To meet increases in demand and
secure its share of the trade, Queensland
Brewery has spent heavily on plant and
freeholds over the last eight years. Fixed
assets, comprising the Brisbane and
Toowoomba Breweries, hotels and plant,
etc., were shown at £3,868,471, after
heavy depreciation write-offs.
During the year under review, work
was commenced on the rebuilding of the
co.’s four freehold hotels (Majestic and
Australian National, Brisbane; Palm
Beach, Elanora ; Moreton Bay, Redcliffe).
The co. has also undertaken a major
reconstruction of two other. freehold
hotels (Shaftson and Wickham, Brisbane).
Last term the visible capital-expenditure
on the breweries, hotels and plant
amounted to £240,117. The valuation
of fixed asset's at £3,868,471 appears to
be conservative, keeping in mind the
heavy -depreciation provisions written-off
over the past five years. A possible
revaluation of fixed assets could well be
the source of a bonus-issue. The most
recent ord. capital-increase, three-for-'
eight at par, was made early in 1956-57.
The large increase in book-debts to
£459,356 is in part due to high rate of
excise, which had the effect of tying-up
a considerable portion. of the co.’s
finances in outstanding debtors’ balances.
A possible increase in beer-price may
dampen the sales a little, but as long as
ale remains the national drink the share-
holders’ money is safe. There is room,
perhaps, for a richer dividend, which was
pegged in 1954 at 8 p.c. (The rival
Castlemaine Perkins looks comfortable
paying 10 p.c.).
On the book-figures current ratio
worked-out at 0.8 to 1. However the true
liquidity position of the co. is better,
because “creditors” include taxation and
contingencies provisions, etc.
Net tangible backing is £lB Bs. 7d. for
the prefs. and almost £1 12s. for the 20s.
ords.
Last sale in Brisbane for the ords. was
at 345. sd. a 20s. unit. Contributing
shares (20s. paid to 10s., balance callable
on December 1, 1959) sold for 18s. 6d.,
and the prefs. for £1 3s. The yield on the
f.-p. ords., on the basis of the 8 p.c. div.-
rate, was £4 12s. lOd. p.c.
Bruck Mills (Aust.), Ltd.
TJruck, the industrious and prosperous
squire of the newly-proclaimed City
of Wangaratta (Vic.), has certainly seen
happier days than in the last term.
Earnings went down by almost half,
barely covering the dividend-cheque,
reduced from \2\ p.c. to 8 p.c.
With its registered-office in Melbourne,
plant in Wangaratta and customers all
over Australia, Bruck is a well-known
manufacturer of quality rayon and other
synthetic-fibre materials. The processes
carried-out by the co. include throwing,
weaving, dyeing, printing and finishing.
Bruck (Australia) was set-up as a public
company in Melbourne in 1946 by Bruck
Silk Mills, Montreal, Canada. The former
Canadian parent was openhanded with
its scrip to the Australian investors, who
now own nearly £900,000 of the
£1,195,000 ordinary capital and all
£250,000 5 -p.c. prefs. The sponsor retains
a large minority interest, acquired as
consideration for its trade-marks, tech-
nical services and machinery deliveries.
A few shares were issued to employees.
As one of the largest Australian
weavers of synthetics and wool-synthetics
for the fashion-market, Bruck is in the
focus of public eye. Its fortunes are
an excellent indicator of the general
state of the industry, and of the effect
of various external factors on the market.
The synthetic and wool-synthetic fibre-
trade was particularly affected by the
Japanese Trade Agreement. Imported
synthetic fabrics, especially rayon, were
of reasonable quality, and moderately
priced. Conditions on the Australian
market became highly competitive and
prices fell appreciably.
The chairman’s address specifically
refers to the “very severe competition”
from “the relatively uncontrolled import


Carapark Hldgs.
Has Big
Expansion Plans
SAYS CHAIRMAN.
(Extract from Chairman's address at Statutory Meeting
held 9.10.59)
Speaking on the consolidation of the Carapark Group into Carapark
Holdings Ltd., Mr. Rankin said: "I believe acceptance of the Direc-
tors' recommendation will be complete. Shareholders appear well
aware of the advantages of consolidation. One immediate advan-
tage has been the encouragement of increased Bank support. We
can, therefore, implement plans for expansion at once."
LARGEST AUSTRALIAN MOTEL GROUP
Mr. Rankin went on to
say that the Carapark
Motel at Mermaid Beach
on Queensland’s Gold
Coast, repently complet-
ed, is now widely accept-
ed as the finest in Aus-
tralia. This Motel has
promise of a very profit-
able future.
Directors of Carapark
have already embarked
on a wide programme of
expansion into the Motel
field in all States.
Before the end of the
current financial year, it
is expected Carapark will
own and operate more
Motels than any other
Australian group. Motel
Grafton is being extend-
ed. A controlling interest
has been gained in Cano-
bolas Caravan Motels
Ltd. and a new Carapark
Motel will be built on
this Company’s site at
Orange.
Both the Oasis Motel
at Belmont (Newcastle)
and the Port Motel at
Port Macquarie have
been purchased.
Suitable sites have been
bought at Armidale, Gun-
dagai, Taree and Grif-
Carapark Motels approv-
ed by each Council.
A new Motel is planned
for the site already owned
at Carramar (Sydney)
along Prospect Creek on
the Hume Highway. A
site has been purchased
for a Carapark Motel at
Chermside (Brisbane) &
another at Maryborough
(Queensland).
Options are held on
two suitable highway sites
in Melbourne. Negotia-
tions are in train for fur-
ther Motels at other key
points, including another
in Sydney.
As is well known.
Carapark are by far the
largest manufacturers of
domestic and commercial
caravans in Australia.
This activity, with the
new factory operating in
Melbourne, is expected to
maintain at least its share
of the expanding market.
Figures since July Ist
show substantial increase
over the same period of
1958.
The Finance Company
has shown very healthy
growth which is also be-
ing fully maintained. A
Branch Office for finance
business was recently
opened in Melbourne, and
another is now being es-
tablished in Brisbane.
Mr. Rankin also stated
that application is being
made for listing of the
Holding Company shares
on the Sydney, Brisbane,
Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth and Hobart Stock
Exchanges.
To summarise: It is be-
lieved that Shareholders
in Carapark Holdings can
look forward to rapid de-
velopment in the Motel
field, with sufficient
diversity of activities in
manufacture and finance
to give increased profit-
able stability.
CAPITAL ISSUE
The Directors propose to make an issue of Con-
vertible Notes and of new Share Capital during
the current financial year.
of piecegoods and the very
low prices over a comprehen-
sive range of fabrics available
from Japan.”
Production, particularly of
woven-rayon goods, had fallen
very materially. The down-
ward trend is continuing in the
current term.
As the result of adverse busi-
ness conditions, the trading-
profit for the year ended June
30, 1959, was down £209,635
(or almost 49 p.c.), after
charging £79,526 for depreci-
ation (up £4563) and £4769 for
amortisation of leaseholds.
Administrative expenses,
directors’ and auditors’ fees,
etc., swallowed £43,309 (down
£14,787) and provision for
taxation absorbed £65,000
(down £85,000). Net profit for
the year was £110,324 slimmer
at £116,019, tumbling-down by
almost 50 p.c.:
Year. Dividend Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. , — —Ord. N serves.*
’5L.11L062 P n= 6l!sS4
’53..187,303 12,500 111=112,181 93,608
Tax overprovided, 75,000 . . 168,608
’54..237,023 12,500 256,221
From inner reserves, £90,000 346,221
’55..219,304 12,500 121=149,438 403,587
Tax overprovided, £3739.. 407,326
’56..201,210 12,500 121=149,438 446,598
Tax overprovided previous
year, £589 447,187
Provision for deferred tax
written-back, £45,000 . . 492,187
’57..242,207 12,500 121=149,438 572,456
Tax overprovided, £12,752 585,208
Provision for amortisation of
leasehold improvements \v/
back, £65,869 .. ..651,077
’58..226,343 12,500 121=149,439 715,482
Tax overprovided, £5206 . . 720,688
’59..116,019 12,500 8 = 95,640 728,567
* After deducting intangibles, now
£ 115,955.
Net earnings, after paying the
steady preference charge
(£12,500), were equivalent to
an earning-rate of 8.7 p.c.
on the ordinary paid-up capital,
and barely covered the 8 p.c.
dividend-rate (sliced down
from p.c.) which absorbed
£95,640. Reserves received a
meagre £7879, but also bene-
fited by £5206 taxation over-
provision, bringing them up to
£844,522, subject to £115,955
intangibles.
There were no capital
changes. The co. has 1,195,500
20s. ords. and 250,000 20s.
prefs., all fully-paid:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959.
Pref. .. .. £250,060 £250,000
Ord 1,195,500 1,195,500
Reserves .. 831,437 844,522
Mortgage .. 150,000 75,000
Creditors .. 233,882 360,624
Final divs. .. 80,969 54,818
Tax provision . . 150,000 65,000
£2,891,788 £2,845,464
Freehold property 449,485 449,449
Leasehold .. 9,538 4,769
Plant, machinery,
etc. .. .. 535,173 474,922
Shares . . .. 75,000 75,000
Stock .. .. 711,843 820,604
Debtors, etc. .. 592,415 781,556
Cash . . . . 402,379 123,209
Intangibles .. 115,955 115,955
£2,891,788 £2,845,464
During the year under review,
mortgage-loans were halved, to
£75,000. Creditors went up by
£127,742 to £360,624.
The book-value of freehold
property remained almost un-
changed at £449,449. The
valuation of plant, machinery,
etc., at £474,922 (down £60,251)
reflects the heavy rate at which
depreciation is written-off. The
figures appear to be conserva-
tive.
The increase of £108,761 in
trading-stocks was an indica-
tion of reduced sales, while a
jump in book-debts (up
£189,141) was partly due to
lower country incomes, caused
by unfavorable wool-prices
earlier in the last term. The
balance-sheet figure for stocks
is net of a huge provision for
stock depreciation (£230,621).
Current ratio was high at 3.6
to 1, and the working capital
ample at £1,244,927.
The financial structure of the
co. is sound, with long-term
liabilities a mere £75,000.
However, sound and pro-
gressive as the co. may be, its
return to bigger earnings and
a fatter div.-rate will depend
on whether the domestic wool
and synthetic-fibre weavers
will have their market pro-
tected from competitive im-
ports. Japanese penetration is,
as yet, modest, but quite
enough to hurt domestic manu-
facturers who are vulnerable
to any competitive imports
produced under a lower cost-
structure. The real issue is the
extent to which the Australian
consumer will benefit from
lower prices now obtaining. At


INVEST
WITH
ABSOLUTE
SECURITY
TO EARN
H
PER ANNUM FOR 5 YEARS
HUNT BROS.
{SECUR4TIES, LT 6 '
the finance company of
the. HUNT. BROS. GroJp of
Companies. Successfully >i
linked for 38 years as-
Metiopolitan Dealers for
FORD
OF AUSTRALIA
INTEREST RATES:
B°o PER ANNUM
FOR 5 YEARS •
INTEREST PAYABLE
QUARTERLY
Free of Exchange
A FIRST
MORTGAGE
INVESTMENT
with an
asset backing of nearly
THREE POUNDS FOR ONE!
Application for official list-
ing of long term on the
Sydney Stock Exchange will
be made.
TRUSTEES FOR DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE NOMINEES PTY. LTD.
BANKERS FOR THE ISSUE:
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
Write or phone tor a full Prospectus and application
form to the Underwriting Brokers:
ROLAND WALTON and COMPANY
Wales House, 66 Pitt St., Sydney.
Phone: BL 5061 (6 lines)
Bank House, 11 Bank Place,
Melbourne. Phone: MB 1977
• Or any Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange
• Any Branch of the Commercial Bank of Australia Limited in
N.S.W. and Australian Capital Territory • or direct from:—
HURT
(SECURITIES)
tt
BROS
LIMITED
Crofts Avenue, Hurstville, N.S.W. Phone: 57.0321
this stage sweeping protection
moves seem unlikely, although
the industry will probably be
shielded from really drastic in-
roads from its powerful over-
seas rivals.
The sharemarket values the
20s. ords. a bit below par at
19s. 6d., yielding 8.2 p.c. on
the lower 8 p.c. dividend.
Prefs. sold at 15s. a 20s. unit.
Net tangible backing is £1 12s.
for the ords. and £8 13s. lid.
for the prefs.
Oil Drilling & Exploration
Following withdrawal from
Queensland, O.D.E. was
granted prospecting-licences in
South Australia and Western
Australia, covering an area of
197,000 square-miles and em-
bracing the Eucla Basin, to-
gether with some further areas
to the west.
During the year ended June
30, 1959, 0.D.E., through its
subsidiary Oil Drilling and
Exploration (W.A.) Pty., Ltd.,
continued to carry-out the deep-
drilling programme under con-
tract to Wapet. The co. had
also been engaged in drilling-
activities in W.A. for the
Bureau of Mineral Resources.
The Wapet contract padded-
out last term’s earnings. The
subsidiary Oilfield Supply Co.
Pty. traded profitably, increas-
ing its sales to outside cus-
tomers
However, another subsidiary,
Geological Investigations Pty.,
sustained a loss. Little work
was available for the electric-
logging equipment, while de-
predation and maintenance
costs had to be covered, and
the subsidiary lost £7320
J „
Gross operating-profit was
£1_6,856, plus £BlO7 sundry
income. Administrative ex-
penses absorbed £41,_35. Pro-
vision for depreciation was
almost unchanged at £77,153.
Consolidated net profit for the
year was £16,575, compared
with £18,473 loss incurred in
the preceding term.
T j,. .___ ,
In addition, O.D.E. made a
capital-profit of £16,93- on dis-
posal of some of its invest-
ments. Capital-gains were
added to the capital-reserve
n ° W stanc^n § at
£-5,4-4.
Since the balance-date
O.D.E. secured a contract to
drill one well with its own
T2O rig. Work for the other
rigs is in prospect. A new sub-
sidiary, Exoil Pty., was in-
corpoiated to commence drill-
mg two stratigraphic wells, one
at Madura and another at East
Gambanga, both in W.A.
i he Commonwealth Govern-
ment has granted a £19,000
subsidy
y ‘
The book-value of fixed
sets * s lower at
£441,679, due to heavy depre-
elation provisions Investments
total £4-, 172 and are a new
The co.'s liquidity was sub-
stantially improved, current
assets rising by £37,742 to
£389,916, while external
current liabilities dropped by
£18,945 to £31.413. O.D.E.
now has £150,000 deposits
lodged with 11 different public
h.-p. cos., available at short
notlce -
The co.’s capital remained
unchanged at £1,208,479
divided into 5,089,000 units
paid to 4s. 9d. each. Reserves
totalled £26,864, but there was
a £2816 accumulated loss,
making shareholders’ funds
£1,232,527, subject to £378,733
intangibles.
On the consolidated book-
values, the net tangible assets
(£853,634) give a backing of
3s. 4d. for each f.-p. 4s. 9d.
ord. Sellers ask 2s. 6d. for the
shares,
, . .
Wattle Gully Gold Mines
/Completion of its new
milling-plant later this year
should benefit Wattle Gully
Gold Mines, N.L., through
increased throughput, reduc-
tion in treatment-costs and
b , ett f rec ° v “ y . °£ sold. The
P |ant - „ whlch '"corporates a
bal l-milling Process wiU cost
in ! he re S’° n of , f9o ' o ° o ' “■
designed to replace the co. s
obsolete and almost worn-out
- head stamper - battery,
Managing-director C W.
Vowell claims that with an
annual throughput of 60,000
tons of ore (59,894 tons last
year) the improvement in
recoveries will be worth
£24 ,000 a year, quite apart
f ro m considerable savings in
i a b or costs
T ,, , . e
„ L „ a o S ], lerm ;
? 9 - 89 ,4 tons of ore (56,752 tons
in 1957-58) yielded 19,097
(21,285) fine ounces of gold—
recovered grade was 6.37
(7.46) dwts. per ton. Mine
revenue, as a result, fell
approximately £35,000 to
£297,000, and, with operating-
costs, in total, slightly higher
at £257,835 (£252,090), profit
fell more than 50 p.c. to
£39,873 (£82,677). Per ton of
ore treated, operating-costs
were lower at 86.15. (88.8 s.).
Three dividends, one of 2s.
gj a share and two of Is.
'each, were paid during the
year, the total distribution to
shareholders amounting to
£ qo sqq
A \ j ,
At June 30 ’ P roved and
probable ore reserves were
estimated to be 215,710
(223,500) tons with, as far as
sampling information permits
c f re fiable estimation, a mining
g ra de of 6.2 (7.2) dwts. per ton.
. Ther ? ara IfBo-“°. 1 f 80 -“°. “l
shares tyued of which 120,000
ar< ( paid f V? 3s *r 1 • a d
balanc K e fully ;P aid - Both
£ P VSSS
*? cil around 2ys -> as a 2 ainst
425. a year ago,


*•*2-
IF
i i
*
why CAT
top oil resale values
Osi'y Caterpillar Track-type Tractors give you all this:
• MORE FROM THE START: You get added values and inbuilt quality for more life, more
production that others cannot match at the price.
• LOWEST RUNNING COSTS: Burning low-cost non-premium diesel fuel, Caterpillar Track-
type Tractors save real money on every tankful (20%-25% on annual fuel bills).
• NO ORPHAN MODELS: Replacement parts are still available for the first Caterpillar
Track-type Tractor built!
• UNMATCHED W & J SERVICE: With seven highly staffed and equipped country branch
workshops, resident country servicemen and a vast inventory of genuine replacement
parts, W & J has State-wide Caterpillar service completely under control.
• LOWEST DEPRECIATION: Cat Diesel Tractors are "blood-brothers" to other Caterpillar-
built machines that have clocked over 100,000 work hours and are still going strong.
• HIGHEST WORKPOWER: A Cat Track-type Tractor gives big savings in maintenance
and labour—not to mention year-round adaptability for land clearing, tank sinking
and property improvements.
• INSURANCE against crop failure that goes with every machine
—the ability of Caterpillar Track-type Tractors to go when wheel
tractors can't get a footing.
Naturally you won't buy a Caterpillar Diesel Tractor for its
handsome resale value. You'll buy it to work—and that's what
it's built for; just check on its resale value for
the proof. There's always a solid market for
quality tractors made by Caterpillar.
CATERPILLAR
•CATERPILLAR, CAT and TRAXCAVATOR are Registered Trademarks
•f Caterpillar Tractor Co., U.S.A.
Inbuilt quality that
costs no more when
you buy
gets you £lQo's
more should you
ever decide to sell!
Ask your W & J representative to
give you the full facts on the
Caterpillar Equipment specifically
designed to handle your job more
profitably. .
TRACTORS, MOTOR GRADERS, EARTHMOVING EQUIP-
MENT, INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE DIESEL ENGINES.
Sold, serviced and backed to the hilt in N.S.W. by:
WAUGH & JOMPHSON PTY. LIMITED
WJ229.115
Head Office: Mitchell Road, Alexandria, Sydney. 'Phone: LA 6631.
Branches at Gunnedah, 'phone 326; Parkes, 'phone 1266; Wagga, 'phone
8237; South Grafton, 'phone 392; Inverell, 'phone 1400; Cooma, 'phone 657;
Moree, 'phone 208.


AUSTRALIAN
WINE AND FOOD
—Australian News and Information Bureau Photo.
Grape-picker, sampling the crop, on a Hunter River (N.S.W.)
vineyard.
«|TNF. WEEK, being
w/wlr R now > with
¥ RT H | Melbourne the
1 vi X P base or coll f er '
Ik Ik ences between
th e makers, pro-
ducers, growers
and scientists and the men who
handle the business side of
things, has become an im-
portant national event.
Australian wines, in spite of
prejudice, snobbishness and
severe handicaps, have received
world-wide recognition so that
now it is not too much to say
that they compare with any
in the world.
Wine has been the natural
drink of mankind almost from
the beginning of time. It has
changed, of course, but it has
always been good, and today
it is better than ever. That is
particularly true of Australian
wine. The men who began
growing wine in Australia got
their stock from the finest
vineyards and learned all they
could from the great vintners
of France and Spain, Germany
and • Italy. Then they began
to discover how the old tech-
niques could be adapted and
how far new scientific methods
could take the element of
chance out of winemaking.
The result of all this was
Wine Week
that, instead of the small vine-
yards of Europe, each with its
little press and barrels lying
picturesquely around—“folksy
and crafty,” an English critic
has called it Australia de-
veloped immense and highly-
efficient wineries, almost like
factories. Have a look at the
size, for example, of some of
the wineries in the Barossa
Valley in S.A. Around these
parts they talk of wine by the
million gallons.
This may not fit-in with your
picture of the making of wine.
But these are different times,
and the large wineries of Aus-
tralia have none of the coarse-
ness you might fear from such
big-scale production. They are
run by winemakers who have
scientific skill that isn’t
matched anywhere and take the
same pride in the results of
their work as the winemakers
of the Continent with their
ancient ways.
To those who, just because
it is an Australian product,
can see no good in our wine
and who can’t believe that
so young a country can pro-
duce wines anything like those
of Europe, it may come as a
surprise to learn that recently
in two different exhibitions in
Europe, Australian wines—
and commercial wines at that
—won prizes against the
world’s best. The judges were
not Australians, but men from
other countries.
Grape-growing and wine-
making are important Aus-
tralian industries. It is esti-
mated that the capital-value of
these industries, when the
worth of vineyards, wineries,
plant, machinery, offices and
stock is taken into considera-
tion, may be as much as £7O
million. The industries em-
ploy many ex-servicemen, a
big number of whom, with
Government assistance, have
been settled on the land to
grow wines.
The leaders of these indus-
tries have not been content to
sit back and let things take
their course. The fact that the
consumption of wine in Aus-
tralia has increased by more
than two-million gallons in the
last two-and-a-half years is not
just due to accident.
The wine men have worked
hard. They persuaded the
Federal Government to ad-
vance money to establish the
Wine Research Institute, with
the aim of doing everything
possible to improve the quality
and standard of our wines.
They started wine-waiters’
courses in Adelaide and Syd-
ney and helped in the forma-
tion of the Wine Service Guild,
which awards a badge of office
only to those waiters who have
passed exacting tests. They
have done much towards the
promotion of wine as a drink
to add to the enjoyment of life.
Naturally, as businessmen,
they are vitally interested in
increasing the sale of wine.
But only those opposed to
alcohol in any form can cavil
at their advocating the use of
wine to add to the enjoyment
of eating and to improve the
flavor and taste of many
foods.
How to Open
Sparkling Wines
VX/hen serving sparkling
wines champagne,
sparkling hock or sparkling
burgundy make quite sure
that they are thoroughly
chilled. Some of the still white
wines may lose something of
their flavor if served too cold,
but sparkling wines must be
really cold.
The bottle may be cooled
in a refrigerator (it should be
kept there for at least six
hours before opening); but
you will get results just as
good by placing it in a bucket
with cracked ice for about an
hour before serving. At inter-
vals the bottle should be
gently twisted in the bucket to
ensure that all sides are evenly
chilled.
This is how to uncork a
bottle of sparkling wine:
(1) Place a napkin half-
unfolded across the top of the
bucket ready to wrap round
the bottle ;
(2) remove the wire and foil
surrounding the cork ;
(3) now remove the bottle
from the bucket, at the same
time wrapping the napkin
round it to take-up the
moisture ;
(4) holding the bottle tilted
at an angle, gently ease-out the
cork, so that you can pour the
wine as the cork comes out.
A pronounced “pop” should
accompany the final release of
the cork of a bottle of spark-
ling wine. If the “pop” is
missing, make a check to see
that the wine is not flat or
unsound.


There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
of mellow S?AGn€IS
Pot-Still BRANDY
2£t
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of seventy-five years
careful wine making, distilling and blending are combined in
the perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes
a distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia
and the world over! On all occasions, you flatter yourself
and your friends when you serve St. Agnes Brandy.
You will enjoy
staghgs
Australia's
Better Brandy
OLD LIQUEUR
or THREE STAR
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
DISTRIBUTORS for ALL STATES: Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
VICTORIA: Dalgety & Co. Ltd. - Van Cooth & Co. Pty. Ltd. • W.A.: J. Noonan Pty. Ltd.
ASK ALSO FOR * ANGOVE'S WINE
Better Drinking
By ROBERT L. SEPPELT
President of the Federal Viticultural Council of Australia.
I believe that in Australia
today most of the com-
munity have accepted the trend
towards better drinking.
I don’t apologise for say-
ing that by better drinking
I mean an increasing aware-
ness of the benefits and charm
of: moderate use of Australia’s
excellent wines arid brandies.
. This trend has extended into
the homes of average Aus-
tralians. And it’s good that
the increased interest centres
largely in table-wines as an
accompaniment to good foods,
Statistics of the sale of wine
in Australia in recent years
show an advance, chiefly in
table-wines. The reader may
wonder why vignerons are
particularly pleased about table-
wines showing an increase and
what has brought this increase
about.
Before I give my answers,
I’d like to explain that table-
wines are those commonly
served at the meal-table, and
comprise white wines such as
riesling, moselle, chablis and
sauterne, and the red wines,
claret and burgundy. You may
like sherry with your soup,
port with sweets or cheese, and
brandy with the coffee, so they
may be served at table, too.
But for convenience of classifi-
cation sherries are known as
appetisers, ports and muscats
are dessert-wines, while brandy
is on a pinnacle of its own. You
may like a glass of sherry or
vermouth between meals or in
the pleasant 10 or 20 minutes
before you sit down to a meal,
Port or muscat may be your
favorite nightcap, but, as
appetisers and dessert-wines
are not exclusively used at the
table, we never put them under
the heading of table-wines,
reserving that term for the dry
whites, dry reds and sauterne.
The reason vignerons are
pleased at the growing popu-
larity of table-wines is that
good food is the perfect setting
and background for enjoyment
of the finest wines ; and good
wine is the ideal accompani-
ment to the finest foods. More-
over, mealtime is the best time
to drink wine from a physio-
logical viewpoint, as well as
from that of enjoyment,
Table-wines have an infinite
variety of shades of type and
style, and give great scope for
the maker’s art and skill.
So the winemaker is delighted
when the market calls in on
him for his choicest vintages
or good, honest vin ordinaire.
For, while each grade of wine
is nurtured with conscientious
care, a wineman’s “top reds”
and “top whites” are especially
cherished and he has the satis-
faction of knowing that his art
not only brings him profit, but
also gives pleasure to his
customers.
I think Australian vignerons
provide beverages which
give enjoyment at all
times, whether for simple
occasions at home, for celebra-
tions or for some social event:
still wines and sparkling, light
and full-bodied wines; dry,
sweet and medium wines;
wines with the freshness of
youth or the mellowness of age.
This brings me to the second
part of my question: what has
brought about the increased
demand for table-wines?
Introductions and recommen-
dations of wines in friends’
homes or at friends’ tables in
hotels or restaurants is one
cause. New Australians from
wine-drinking countries have
been another big factor in this
connection. They have brought
us a new outlook on the
preparation of food and in-
sisted on the use of wines as
its fascinating complement.
Another factor has been the
campaign undertaken by the
wine-industry. This has
included advertising, distri-
bution of booklets, and
sponsorship of public wine-
tastings. Efforts by individual
wine-companies have also
contributed to the common
objective. Our State associa-
tions are examining the form
taken by various public tastings
and modifying and developing
them in the light of experience.
A remarkable growth of
wine-and-food clubs through-
out Australia in the last five
years has also contributed
much to the rising, popularity
of table-wines. In South
Australia alone there are
no fewer than 32 of these
clubs in various groups or as
individual societies. Other
States also N have many such
societies and clubs for wine
appreciation.
The steady improvement in
quality of our Australian wines
■ —and the variety of choice
afforded by new types of wines
resulting from imaginative
experimental work by makers
—have also been significantly
responsible for educating the
public towards more sensible
drinking.


Our Vines Came
with the First Fleet
HThe story of the Australian
wine-industry is as old as
the nation itself, because it
started with the arrival of the
First Fleet.
It may have been by chance
that vines were included in the
mixed cargoes brought to Aus-
tralia. There were no vines in
any vessel when on May 12,
1787, the fleet of eleven ships,
commanded by Captain
Arthur Phillip, sailed down
the Thames estuary.
On the voyage, though, the
ships called at the Cape of
Good Hope, and, in a letter to
England, an officer of the fleet
wrote from there:
In six weeks after we left Rio
de Janeiro we arrived here. Both in
this place and the last our captain
has been indefatigable in procuring
every kind of refreshment the coun-
tries could afford and has embarked
great quantities of livestock, plants,
etc., for our intended settlement,
which, from our fortunate begin-
ning, we have every reason to think
will turn out well. Our fleet has
been very healthy since we left
England, not having lost more than
twenty persons of every description
which, considering our number, is
a very small proportion in com-
parison with the bills of mortality
in London.
In the history of Australian
wine, the interesting point
about this letter is its reference
to “plants for the settlement.”
These plants included vine-
cuttings, which were the first
to be planted in Australian
soil. It was from these vines
or their offshoots that the first
vineyards grew and the first
wine was produced.
Soon after Captain Phillip’s
fleet arrived in Sydney the
vines he had brought were
planted on land which is now
the Sydney Botanical Gardens.
There is no record why that
site was selected. The most
likely assumption is that it
was a convenient spot. Con-
venient it may have been, but
it was not a wise selection.
Apparently the men who
first planted the vines near
Farm Cove knew nothing
about soil or climatic condi-
tions. All they were con-
cerned about was to get the
plants set-out in the land as
quickly as possible. Those
who watched the development
and growth of the vines did
not take very long to realise
that all was not going well
with them. Early reports say
that they suffered from hot
winds which burned the
foliage.
In the light of experience,
however, men who understand
grapevines reached the con-
clusion that the trouble prob-
ably did not come from hot
winds, but from a fungoid
disease, known among vintners
as “black-spot” or “anthrac-
nose.” This disease had been
known in Europe for over
2000 years, and it has charac-
teristics which would develop
virulently in the humidity
around Sydney Harbor.
The early reports which
went to England about con-
ditions in the new colony were
not overoptimistic concerning
the prospect of successfully
establishing vineyards. If the
early officials had decided that
this new land was no good for
the growing of vines and had
reported back more dogmati-
cally, Australia might never
have had a wine-industry.
But though they may not
have been optimistic, the offi-
cials in charge of the vines
decided to persevere and
planted cuttings further inland.
From then on the vines flour-
ished, though, of course, other
places besides Farm Cove were
found unsuitable. But there
were more successes than
failures, and in a short time
the industry was established
and progressing.
The first plantings which
showed promise were over an
area of about three acres near
Parramatta. As early as 1791,
Governor Phillip was able to
report, with some measure of
pride, that the vines were doing
well.
Even at this early date a
private individual planted an
acre of land with grapevines.
He was a settler named
Schaffer (there is doubt about
his Christian name, but it is
believed to have been Philip)
and he deserves a small niche
in the hall-of-fame of the wine-
industry, as Australia’s first
vigneron.
But, for some reason, the
name of Schaffer never be-
came one of the great family-
names —many of which still
are carried-on today —of the
industry. This pioneer may
have had bad luck with his
vines or may not have seen, as
others later did, what a future
there was in the cultivation of
the grape and the making of
wine. So there’s little more
to be heard about him.
Meanwhile, in England, men
in high places began to recog-
nise that there might be a
future for the wine-making
industry in the new colony.
Their idea came at a time
when the vines were rooted
firmly and soundly, even if
not in any spectacular manner,
in Australian soil.
In April, 1800, the Duke of
Portland wrote to the Gover-
nor of N.SAV..
As it appears that the soil and
climate of New South Wales are
favorable to the cultivation of the
grape (something already known),
there will go out by the- Royai
Admiral two who are
prisoners-of-war here and who
appear to have a perfect knowledge
of the cultivation and the whole
process of wine-making.
I trust the employment of these
men will enable you in a very short
period to cultivate a vineyard for
the Crown to such an extent as to
allow our producing, on the spot,
whatever wine may be wanted for
the public account.
But apparently somebody
(Continued on page 43)
WINE GLASSES
Sparkling wine. White or Red. Sherry. Port.


Si . ;
■mwm
mmmm
mm
mm
l
T
UN DEMAN LTD. 1
SYDNEY: J
NET CONTENTS i FT- 6f-L.OZ* /4,
lAuftimt
Id 5
Utittl ...
WWW
Montillo Sweet with
that soft, rich grapey,
flavour and Mon-
tillo Dry with its
nutty, clean
finish are
unequalled.
Lindeman’s
the pick of
Australia’s
finest
vineyards
ns
mes
follow the judges
choose


w .. "
M
eoves
mm
M,
■ ***<flrAt,.wartittSfy . ■:
. •>.. ••'**.
blwSss ... ' --
Mm
rUa«l i§
m
.- ■ I «■:
* ■
?: v ■
/ '
A happier choice for every occasion ..,
Aneoves WINES
Good wine with good food makes for happier,
friendlier living. And for three-quarters of a century
Angove's Wines of mature perfection have been
making firm friends both at home and overseas.
Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly dry and
appetising, is an excellent introduction to the dis-
tinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES of rare quality . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined with the
rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s glorious Murray Valley.
Ask for Angove s Wine at your hotel or licensed retailer.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINES OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY. VERMOUTH. BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNE, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
DISTRIBUTORS for ALL STATES: Dalgety & Co. Ltd. • VICTORIA: Dalgety & Co. Ltd. Van Cooth & Co. Pty. Ltd.
YOU NEEDN'T BE AN EXPERT
'T'here are a few men in the
wir.e trade —very few, it
must be stated —who are so
expert that there are times
when they can tell, by sniffing
and tasting, not only where a
wine comes from, but that part
of the vineyard where the
grapes which made the wine
were grown.
But you don’t have to have
that skill to be able to appreci-
ate and enjoy wine. As a
matter of fact, you can enjoy
wine without knowing a thing
about it.
That is one of the good
things about wine—it can be
as pleasant to the inexperi-
enced as to the connoisseur.
The truth is that the majority
of people who like wine do
not really know much about it.
It’s like a man in an art-
gallery looking at a picture
and saying, “I like that, it
pleases me. I can’t teff you
why, but it is my type of
picture.”
The wine-expert may dis-
cover more subtleties of
aroma, flavor and texture —
if the word can be used about
wine—but the novice can
enjoy a general pervading
pleasure without being able to
dissect it as an expert would,
and he can be just as satisfied,
It is not difficult, however,
to acquire sufficient knowledge
to enable you to look for those
points in Australian wines
which please the expert,
What does the connoisseur
and the judge look for in
assessing the quality and good-
ness of a particular wine?
The g rst thing is color. All
wines> whether wWte of red>
should be bright and clear,
. . , 6 , . ,
The wine-judge holds the glass
U P to a B ood }i 8 ht ’ 50 that he
can ds brightness. Be
suspicious of a wine that is
not . bright and clear or
brilliant, the judges say.
Cloudiness in a wine is not
good.
Next, the expert noses the
wine. If the bouquet is good it
is almost certain to be a good
wine. What is a good bouquet?
In non-technical terms it
should be an agreeable
bouquet. Or, in the words of
Victorian wine-judge Roy
Smith: “You seek a scent'
which is redolent of the grape
itself. It should unmistakably
convey the smell of the grape
—a good fruity scent.”
The final and crucial test is
taste. The judge when tasting,
takes a good mouthful, holding
it long enough to pass it under
and over the tongue and gradu-
ally round the mouth. The
wine thus comes in contact
with the taste-buds. This test
should bring out everything
the wine has to offer.
Different wines have differ-
ent qualities of taste. But all
wines should have what might
be termed a “clear” taste—a
taste that leaves a pleasant
feeling in the mouth after the
wine is swallowed. The taste
as the wine is swallowed is
technically known as the “fare-
well.”
A beginner may find a num-
ber of wines—clarets, bur-
gundies and some hocks —
rather dry to the taste. That
is why novices prefer the
sweeter wines at first, such as
sauternes. But the taste for
dry wines soon develops. The
thing about wine is that you
can do what most wine-lovers
do—find the wine you like and
enjoy it.
If it is the wine you like it
will be, for you, a good wine.
WHAT WINE SHOULD I HAVE?
of the things that have
helped the increase in
sales of wine in Australia is
that people are beginning to be
less “nervous” about wine.
It wasn’t that they were
nervous about the effects of
having a glass or two of wine
with a meal, but that they were
frightened of making them-
selves look foolish in the eyes
of a v/aiter or other diners by
ordering a red wine when they
should have ordered a white
w'ne, or, say, a hock when the
right thing would have been a
chablis.
Wine snobbery is dying fast,
and it is because of this that
the consumption of t»ble-wines
—that is, wines such as hock,
riesling, chablis, sauterne,
graves or moselle among the
whites, and claret and bur-
gundy among the reds has
gone up by nearly 30 per cent,
in the last few years.
It is accepted that a red
wine generally goes with red
meat, iust as a wh'te wine goes


s;'i; * —s >
Wf
%
v f>" <C '•? ' ' -
< *t A. $> i '
the home
of quality
Wines
SEPPELTSFIELD
has a tradition dating back over 100 years, renowned
for producing wines of unsurpassed quality,
for the enjoyment of all. Seppeltsfield is a blend
of the scientific and rustic, and is one of the most
beautiful and romantic wineries in the world.
Situated in the lush Barossa Valley, South Australia,
Seppeltsfield is the headquarters of the House of
Seppelt, which is proud to be playing a prominent
role in developing the popularity of Australian
Wines, both at home and overseas.
m
ass
SOU
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE • FREMANTLE • LONDON
with white meat. But there is
not the slightest reason why,
if you prefer it, you can’t
reverse the order.
Some people don’t like red
wine ; some don’t like white.
Who says they can’t have the
wine they like, irrespective of
what they are eating?
One bottle of wine is gener-
ally sufficient for two people
with a meal. Must they have
a bottle of white wine if they
are having fish, followed by
red wine with a grill?
The wine you like the most
is the wine to have.
However, with strictly
formal meals, it is more or less
a rule to serve certain wines
with each course. This is the
accepted way to serve wines
on formal occasions:
Hors d’oeuvres sherry
(cool).
Oysters chablis, hock,
sauterne (chilled).
Soup —sherry (cool).
Fish —hock, riesling, chablis,
sauterne (chilled).
Entrees , dark —claret or
burgundy (about 65deg. tem-
perature). Light— chablis, ries-
ling, hock, sauterne (chilled).
Pork, Lamb —claret or bur-
gundy (about 65deg. tempera-
ture).
Chicken champagne or
sparkling hock, still hock,
riesling, chablis, sauterne
(chilled).
Duck, Goose or Beef —claret
or burgundy (about 65deg.
temperature), sparkling bur-
gundy (chilled).
Dessert —p ort, muscat
(about 65deg. temperature).
Coffee —brandy.
FOR YOUR INFORMATION
Amontillado : A type of dry
sherry.
Aperitif : A short drink
taken as an appetiser before
meals, such as sherry or ver-
mouth.
Blending : A perfectly
legitimate way of improving
the quality of different wines.
By mixing them together a more
harmonious whole is assured.
Bouquet: The aroma of
wine which adds to its charm.
Some connoisseurs enjoy the
aroma of wine almost as much
as the taste.
Brandy: Product of the dis-
tillation of fine wine made
from freshly-crushed grapes.
Burgundy : Full-bodied red
table-wine.
Cabernet: One of the most
extensively grown wine-making
grapes for red table-wines.
Also applies to red table-wines
made from cabernet grapes.
Champagne : Fine white
sparkling wine produced by
natural fermentation.
Claret : Light red table-
wine.
Corky : Wine tainted
through a faulty cork.
Cradle: The wicker, wood,
or wire basket in which a
bottle of old wine may be
placed to move it from the bin
with the least possible disturb-
ance of the wine.
Crust: A pediment thrown
off by some red wines, chiefly
port, in the process of ageing.
The crust adheres to the inside
of the bottle.
Cuvee: Used in connection
with champagne, and indicates
the first pressing from freshly-
gathered grapes.
Decant: To transfer wine
from its original bottle to
another bottle or container for
the purpose of drawing clear,
bright wine away from the
sediment.
Dry : A term used to denote
the absence of sweetness.
Fino: A type of dry sherry.
Flor: Selected yeast-culture
which produces a characteristic
flavor in sherry.
Hock : Light white table-
wine.
Madeira : Fruity dessert-
wine.
Moselle: Light white wine
slightly sweeter than riesling.
Muscat: A rich, fruity
dessert-wine.
Riesling: Light table-wine,
like hock, made from the
Riesling grape.
Sauterne : Light white
table-wine which is sweeter
on the palate than other types
of table-wines.
Sherry: Golden to amber
wine appearing in different
types such as dry, fruity and
sweet.
Sparkling Burgundy: Red
sparkling wine produced by
natural fermentation in the
bottle.
Sparkling Hock : White
sparkling wine produced by
natural fermentation in the
bottle.
Sparkling Moselle : A
white sparkling wine, fairly
fruity, produced by natural
fermentation in the bottle.
Table Wines: Wines con-
taining only the natural alcohol
produced on fermentation, and
therefore lighter than dessert-
>vines.




V'
r>
111:'
Or
asHsasMSß _3h3hi
*>-.„ * MK
s<S§> 111
'A
zt'w #rs*u
>.,-■** ■ ■
* :
'• ' •-
OaTi*
■
, :*i
' ,
* ,*» V
*
■ .Jf*.
*
mm
'■>A
iKsr
.9
■■§ , • ■ . <■' ' ,
fi ' / ;.
MACARONI-STUFFED
PEPPERS
4 large green peppers
H cups cooked short-length macaroni
§ cup diced cheese
§ cup diced fresh tomatoes
Salt, pepper, paprika, cayenne
cup breadcrumbs
1 small onion, minced
\ teaspoon sugar
i cup claret or burgundy.
Remove seed-cores from peppers, cover
with boiling salted water and boil S
minutes. Drain, place in baking-dish and
fill with macaroni mixture, dot each
pepper with butter or margarine and bake
in moderate oven until pepper is cooked,
about 30-40 minutes.
ONION SOUP
3 tablespoons cooking oil or lard
6 medium-sized onions, sliced thin
4 cups stock or meat-extract
1 cup sauterne or other whi
Salt and pepper e d
6 slices of bread, toasted and
A cup grated cheese.
Cook sliced onions gently m
until transparent. Add ’ tender,
cook slowly until onions are
Add wine, salt and FPP sOU p into
reheat to boiling-pom . | 2rge on e,
6 individual casseroles or oa
float pieces of butt,» s * eeie , »
sprinkle them with grate* f , „n
bake in top of oven , about
grated cheese browns g
minutes. Serves six.
SPICED SALAD
\ cup claret
1 tablespoon wine-vinegar
1 tablespoon onion-juice
1 tablespoon chutney
Pinch mixed spice
2 hard-boiled eggs
Green pepper, sliced
Paprika.
Blend well wine, wine-vinegar, onion-
juice, chutney, and mixed spice. Toss
leaves of a fresh young lettuce in mixture.
Place on flat salad bowl and surround
with slices of hard-boiled eggs sprinkled
with paprika and green-pepper slices.
AFRICAN TURBAN
1 cup rice
2 4 cups milk
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cup cream
Prune compote.
oft was hed rice into a large pan
Drai l Water and boil ** 2 minutes.
Return th d mn Cold water thr ough it.
and "t e nCe , to the P an - Add the milk
the sugar an? 1 Y l° r 25 minutes - Add
longer T P t vani ha and cook 5 minutes
cream £ tT} Stir « 1 cup of heavy
Place in a r f Ped f ° c V stard consistency,
with a chillnH 8 ° n a d * sb ' the centre
with red win Cornpote °f prunes cooked
S "* vcr/ cold .
'W'POTB or prunes*
, Prunes
! C K U P sugar
ot ' daret or burgundy.
■? n ine overn ight. If
a little more w.- ed 11 a by mom ing add
?"'■ SimmeT,!," water to ™ke a
they are soft t,, P runes m this until
"" e '^'th“ St sugar orCtheendof,lle
4^
1
rZ-'-ZtZ
S -
s®
SWawaSSE;
S 3
-•• •>" •••
*mmss
| ; I
>§»
:
.**«***;


o VO
annr^
&
2ir>
/VWV!
Vvy*
wwV)
wrVrh
aim
/m
/
■A
V
C\/7
0 0
rrr?p
when you’re green you grow . . .
CAN YOU FINISH THE QUOTE?
When you re green you grow; when you're ripe you rot!" is the
whole quotation. This rather puts one on the horns of a dilemma. None
wants to be green; none wants to rot. Somewhere betiveen of course is
the man (or woman) of sound judgment who is youthful enough in
outlook to say: Here, try this, it’s new I’m sure you’ll like it!”
and if its one of Hamilton’s newer wines say, the Hamilton’s Oloroso
or Hamilton s Cream Sherry it’s a tribute to your judgment and
your outlook alike both wines are worthy additions to your cellar;
and great favourites wherever they are drunk.
There should be at least one bottle etch on your next wine order.
HAMILTON'S OLOROSO
HAMILTON'S CREAM SHERRY
HAMILTON'S EWELL VINEYARDS LTD.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, PERTH. MONTREAL & LONDON
Drink of Heroes
Come years ago, in a play at
one of London’s West End
theatres, one of the women
in the cast described her hus-
band as a man of discernment.
As an example of his good
taste she said that “He never,
never drank Australian
brandy.”
This line incensed Colin
Mackay, who was then the
overseas representative of the
Australian Wine Board. He
decided to do something about
it, so he arranged a tasting of
brandies, attended by experts,
the author and leading
members of the cast of the
play.
At this tasting, he produced
six or seven masked bottles of
brandy, some of them famous
French cognacs, others Aus-
tralian brandies.
Five out of six persons asked
to name the best of the
brandies picked the Australian
products!
The line was deleted from
the play, and the author made
a public apology.
Brandy, “drink of heroes,”
as Dr. Johnson observed, is
made practically everywhere in
Australia where wine is made
because the spirit which makes
brandy is, of course, a product
of the grape.
As with Australian wine,
Australian brandy is different
from French or Spanish
brandy.
Something in our soil and
climate—perhaps, the quick
warm ripening period—gives it
its own distinctive quality.
Experts may say it is not like
cognac. Of course, it isn’t.
Nor is France’s own armagnac.
The two great brandies of
France, cognac and armagnac,
are utterly different but both
are very good. Similarly,
Australian brandy has its own
special appeal.
One of the strange things
about brandy is that, in the
beginning, this highly refined,
subtle and inspiring liquor was
nothing more than a hurried
makeshift.
What happened was this. A
little over 400 years ago,
French winemakers round the
Bay of Biscay found themselves
with more wine than they knew
what to do with. They couldn’t
sell it and hadn’t the space to
store it.
A Dutch chemist, a wine-
lover roaming the vineyards,
took pity on them. He showed
them how they could convert
their wine into something that
would keep a long time, and
wouldn’t take up much space.
Alcohol, he explained to
them, would boil and drift up
into vapor at lower tempera-
tures than water would.
They nodded moodily. The
Dutchman told them more. It
they up their wine, till
the alcohol evaporated, and
then allowed this vapor to con-
dense into drops, they would
have not wine, but the essence
of wine—“the heart of it,” as
a great French brandy-expert
was to say later. Moreover,
this heart of the wine would
only be one-tenth of its original
bulk. It would fit easily into
their limited storage-space and,
as it was a spirit, would keep
indefinitely.
The Dutchman had no idea
he was creating one of the
world’s most famous drinks.
All he knew was that he was
doing what he could to help
the poor French vignerons. He
didn’t even try to give a worthy
name to the new product, but
called it by the first simple
name that came to him —burnt
wine. In Dutch it was
Brcmdjwyn, which gave us the
word brandy.
It was some time, of course,
before the original brandy
began to achieve all the subtle-
ties of savor and bouquet it
was to become famous for.
Most of that, the old French
vignerons discovered, qame to
the brandy when it was
patiently mellowed for long
years in an oaken cask, which
not only gave the originally
colorless liquid its golden hue,
but brought out, in the ageing
process, a delicacy of perfume
and taste unmatched by any
other spirit.
The next discovery was that
while brandy would age beauti-
fully in the wood, it wouldn’t
go any further in the bottle.
The cobwebbed bottle, what-
ever pernickety interest it might
have for a naturalist, has no
significance whatever for the
brandy-lover.
Brandy had already reached
that point when the technique,
including, of course, matura-
tion in the oaken cask, was
transplanted to Australia. It is
a technique that works in Aus-
tralia today exactly as it works
in France. As soon as the
grapes are fermented into the
wine, the liquor is distilled.
Sometimes it is distilled twice.
When it is stored away in
old oaken casks and allowed
to breathe in them, unwanted
constituents are given-off, while
the wood and the air create
(Continued on page 43)


The Pure Product of the Grape
WINES
PART OF AUSTRALIA'S HERITAGE.
A
Discriminating
Host’s
FIRST CHOICE
of
Clarets, Burgundies,
Hocks, Chab I i s ,
Sauternes,
Sherries, Ports,
Muscatels .
..--V
' .
JziL/i
*
■■
lH
.
%
■fc V !
*iibpi
OTHER STATE AGENTS:
Walter Reid & Co., Brisbane and Rockhampton.
North Queensland Trading Co., Townsville.
M. Fiorelli Pty., Ltd., Cairns and Ingham.
See Poy & Sons, Innisfail.
The Distillers Agency. Melbourne. McGay & Co., Perth.
McFarlane Bros., Hobart. Irvine & McEachern, Launceston.
Vintaged and matured at the
- cellars of
GLENLOTH WINES LTD.,
o’halloran hill,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
CRAIG MOSTYN & CO.
PTY. LTD.,
212 YORK STREET NORTH,
SYDNEY
CLENLOTH
••light dinner claret’’
ideal for barbecues


So proudly
you’ll
serve”
fJt
m
Iwll
*ltu
**«,£?*«Rv .r *
"'’^le.AUrlH'^O
">*lll
s tu
Ausr
* 1 t>, NT ' RAL 'AH BRANDY
Owces
MILD AR A
The best Australian Brandy
Mildara 3 Star Brandy, a brandy
served with water, soda or
ginger ale, makes a delicious,
distinctive and refreshing long
drink.
AWARDED FIRST PRIZES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
THE FIGHT FOR EXPORT MARKETS
By IAN SEPPELT
Chairman of the Australian Wine Board.
Tn the fight that is on for ex-
A port markets in many sec-
tions of Australian trade, the
wine-industry is already press-
ing forward increasingly to-
wards overseas markets,
whether large or small.
I believe we must be pre-
pared to throw even greater
weight into the battle for ex-
ports, or, at least, to maintain
our present organised efforts
to sell more wine overseas and,
at the same time, follow-up
with personal contact by
leaders of individual com-
panies.
The crux of the wine situ-
ation is that, although in recent
years there has been a growth
in the public acceptance of
wine as part of the Australian
way of life, we still need a
substantial export-trade to
absorb the amount of wine
produced beyond Australian
domestic requirements.
Our biggest export-market
is the United Kingdom, to
which we have been sending
more than one-million gallons
a year for the past four years.
That period covers the time
since the Australian Govern-
ment Food and Wine Publi-
city Campaign gathered
momentum. Previously our
exports to U.K. had averaged
800,000 gallons a year for six
years. (In the old heyday of
Australian wine-exports to
Britain during the 1930’s we
used to have a trade of be-
tween three-million and four-
million gallons a year, but
War II upset that pattern.)
Our second-biggest market
is Canada, to which we are
sending approximately 300,000
gallons of wine and 70,000
gallons of brandy each year.
Taking brandy separately,
Canada is Australia’s best
market.
We have a healthy trade
with our near North, includ-
ing Malaya, Singapore, New
Guinea and Papua, Nauru
and Hong Kong. There are
also sizeable exports to the
British West Indies and Fiji,
and smaller amounts to India,
Burma, Samoa, Ceylon and
Pakistan.
New Zealand used to be a
good market, but because of
exchange difficulties that coun-
try has had to impose quota
restrictions, and there has been
a severe setback to its pur-
chase of wine from Australia.
This position has lately eased
slightly, and exporters have
benefited accordingly.
Shipments to all these
countries and a few others
make up a total of Australian
wine-exports averaging be-
tween 14-million and 11-
million gallons yearly, plus
100,000 gallons of brandy.
This volume of exports, with
the Australian consumption of
some 11-million gallons of
brandy a year, has kept equi-
librium reasonably well with
the total of production. It
should be explained that while
the annual intake of grapes
into wineries yields up to 34-
million gallons of wine a year,
between a half and two-thirds
of the wine is used for the
production of brandy and
grape-spirit, leaving the net
output of beverage wine and
at about 12-million
gallons.
To avoid the dislocation
that would result from \\~
million gallons of wine being
thrown back onto the local
market, if the export-trade
failed, the Australian Wine
Board has taken the view that
it must join with the market-
ing-boards of other commodi-
ties in 'contributing substanti-
ally to the trade-publicity
drive in Britain through the
Overseas Trade Publicity Com-
mittee. This committee con-
sists of . the chairmen of the
various markating-boards, to-
gether with Commonwealth
Government representatives.
The committee met in Lon-
don towards the end of June
to formulate a forward policy
on the spot, because members
realised that the market there
was more highly competitive
than ever, and the British
public was becoming even
more price-conscious than
previously.
There’s no doubt that the
food-and-wine campaign is
proving a success. Several of
the big multiple chain-store
groups and also the co-opera-
tives have increased their
turnover of Australian com-
modities’ very considerably by
co-operating in the campaign.
In Canada we have a sound
market, which we are endeav-
oring to strengthen all the
time. The secretary of the
Australian Wine Board,
H. F. M. Palmer, went to the
annual convention of Liquor-
Commissioners at which
problems appertaining to the
Government-controlled liquor-
distribution trade of Canada
were discussed.
Several members of the Aus-
tralian wine and brandy trade
are at present visiting Canada
in the interests of their res-
pective companies. I am par-
ticularly glad to mention this
because I place very great
importance on the value of
personal contact by executives
of the various businesses in
this fight to hold what we have
and to increase our trade. We
cannot just sit at home and
trust that business will come
to us ; we must go overseas,
make our contacts, and ga
back there, from time to time
to see that we keep them.


RHINE CASTLE WINES
RHINE CASTLE
WINES PTY. LTD,
SYDNEY
54b Pitt Street,
Sydney.
BU 5324
MELBOURNE
7 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
MB 2683
Marcheur Pty. Ltd.,
201 Victoria Street,
West Melbourne, Vis.
FY 1932
NEWCASTLE
Mr. J. R. Dodd,
45 Belford Street,
Broadmeadow.
MA 3761
BRISBANE
Miss J. Lloyd,
33 Barry Parade,
The Valley,
Brisbane, Queensland.
B 7746
•tra^
■
sag
Vv ;
rjßßj
fl
Experienced Wine Merchants, Vintners,
Shippers offer you their services in Sydney,
Melbourne, Newcastle and Brisbane . . . Wine
Tastings are held regularly. Let us know when
it would be convenient for you to. see our
wide and interesting range of Table Wines,
Sherries and Dessert Wines. Drop us a line or
ring any of our Cellars or Agents
and you will receive an early invitation.
All the well known wine producing districts
are combed' regularly for the choicest wine of
the vintage. Hunter River, Victorian,
South Australian and West Australian
wines are available in our bins for inspection.
RHINE CASTLE
BISTRO
On the banks of the old Tank stream in
■ our ioo year old wine cellar at
54 b Pitt Street, is the Bistro. Here, in a real
Parisian atmosphere, luncheon
is served continuously from 11.30 to 6.30 p.m.
every week day. Why not
discover for yourself the interesting
French cooking, wine is served by the
goblet. See you at the Bistro.
]. K. Walker,
Cellar Master.
blundered in assessing the
viticultural knowledge of the
two French prisoners-of-war.
Either that, or they were loyal
Frenchmen who did not want
to see their enemies establish
an industry that meant so
much to France. At any rate,
the pair of them contributed
nothing to the establishment
of the wfne-industry in Aus-
tralia.
Finally Governor King, who
was most enthusiastic about
the possibility of grape-growing
on a large scale, lost all
patience with them. He sent
one back to England and put
the other to different work.
To John Macarthur, of
Merino-sheep fame, must go
the credit of being the first to
establish a commercial vine-
yard. While banned from the
colony because of his clash
with Governor Bligh, Mac-
arthur spent considerable
time making a comprehensive
study of viticulture in Europe,
When he returned to Australia
in 1817 he was able to convert
this knowledge into the pro-
duction of wine in commercial
quantities at Camden Park.
From then on the expansion
of the industry was amazing.
A lot had been learnt in a
short time about the climatic
conditions suitable to the culti-
vation of the vine in the new
land, and quickly the vines
spread.
From vineyards in the Parr-
amatta and Camden districts
grape-growing was started in
the Hunter Valley. Good wine
was soon afterwards being
made in Victoria, then the
huge vineyards in the Barossa
Valley and southern districts
opened up. Vines grew in the
Swan Valley, near Perth. Wine
began to be made along the
Murray. The wine-industry
was really on its way.
chemical changes which trans-
mute the originally coarse pro-
duct of the still into the per-
fumed suaveness of fine
brandy.
The old French custom of
a small glass of brandy after
meals is catching-hold in Aus-
tralia, as elsewhere. It may be
taken in almost any sort of
glass, though one with a good
round bowl that narrows at
the tops holds the perfume
better. That doesn’t mean
that you have to go hunting
round for things that look like
goldfish-bowls, but merely that
a glass reasonably generous
and partly closed-in can catch
and hold the delicate aroma
that is, in itself, a delightful
experience.
At the same time no true
brandy-lover has any objection
to adding water or soda.
That way it can become an
invigorating and refreshing
long drink or semi-long drink
either before, during or after
meals.
Many English wine-and-
spirit merchants buy brandies
from good Continental vintage-
years. But in Australia, with
its kind climate, generous sun-
shine, and clear, dependable
atmosphere, every year is a
good vintage-year. That is one
reason why Australian brandy-
makers do not trouble with
vintage-labels. In the happy
climate in which they are made,
Australian brandies are assured
from the start of all the essen-
tial qualities. They are then
properly distilled and well
matured. That’s their guaran-
tee.
Their popularity has been
growing year by year. In
1943-44 Australia produced
481,910 proof gallons of
brandy. In 1957-58 the figure
was up to 1,234,551 gallons.
Most of this is consumed by
Australians. But some of it
goes overseas mostly to
Canada, the East and Fiji.'


The Sherry of the Century
...
V
M I LDARA
SUPREME
Dry Sherry
PRODUCED & MATURED BY
MILDURA WINERY LIMITED
MBRBEIN AND IRYMPLE, AUSTRALIA
NET CONTENTS I 26 FMJID 052.
m
CHATEAU TAHUNDA
You can have confidence in the
quality of this pure grape brandy
A refreshing long drink with soda,
ginger ale or other mineral waters.
An enjoyable and soothing nightcap.
The Brandy of Distinction
CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
James Bushy
A mong the great names in the
history of the Australian
industry is that of James
Busby, who gave viticulture its
first impetus.
Though he is claimed as
such, Busby was not the
founder of the industry. Those
who planted the first vines near
Farm Cove were the founders,
and the industry had been
established, though in a
very small way, before Busby
arrived in this country. But it
was Busby who started the
vineyards of the Hunter Valley
and was mainly responsible for
the establishment of the vines
planted in various parts of
Australia, from which grew the
huge vineyards of today.
The son of a mining sur-
veyor, who opened many coal-
mines for big estates in Eng-
land, James Busby became
interested in grape-growing and
wine-making at an early age.
As a youth he visited the Con-
tinent and made an intensive
study of viticulture.
In 1824 James Busby came
to N.S.W. with his father John,
who had been appointed to
supervise coal-mining at New-
castle. Even before he arrived
in the country, he was planning
the establishment of a wine-
making industry on a big scale
in Australia, and during the
voyage he prepared and wrote
A Treatise on the Culture of
the Vine. He brought with him
hundreds of vine-cuttings. He
also brought ambitious ideas
and visualised every small farm
in Australia having an acre of
grapes, so that the farmer could
drink wholesome, home-made
wine
As a free settler, James
Busby was granted 2000 acres
on the Hunter River, where he
established the first of that
districts famous vineyards.
Soon afterwards, he was
appointed by the Government
to teach viticulture to the boys
of the male orphanage at Cab-
ramatta “with a view to the
general cultivation of the vine
in the Colony.”
Governor Brisbane was
badly in need of public officers
of Busby's type It was a
period when trustworthy,
trained men were scarce, and
Brisbane realised that the viti-
cultural knowledge Busby had
acquired in France would be
extremely helpful.
The boys’ school, as well as
the farmlands which brought
its revenue, was controlled by
a committee of which Major
Goulburn was managing-
member. In December, 1824,
Goulburn entered into agree-
ment with James Busby to
give the boys the necessary
instruction and to superintend
the general farming establish-
ment of the institution, in ex-
change for one-third of the
gross increase of the stock and
of the net profits of the soil.
The school-committee was
superseded in 1826 by a new
body fulsomely called the
“Corporation far the Clergy
and School Lands.” This Cor-
poration evidently thought
strictly on business lines and,
horrified at the expense of the
farming-establishment and see-
ing no prospect of return, de-
cided to break-up the estab-
lishment.
They acted quickly. Busby
was given notice, and the farm
closed-down.
After being dismissed by the
Corporation, Busby was ap-
pointed Collector of Internal
Revenue and a member of the
Land Board. Then he was
replaced as Collector by a new
arrival from England and
offered the position of Clerk of
the Land Board, but, not satis-
fied with the way he was being
treated, he retired suddenly
from the Land Board and
made it known that he was
going to England to place his
grievances before the Home
Authorities. This happened
although Busby was highly
thought of —even Governor
Darling tried to persuade him
to change his mind and stay —
so he sailed for England.
Busby’s interest in vines and
wine-making never abated,
and in 1830 he had published
a small booklet to which he
gave the long title, A Manual
of Plain Directions for Plant-
ing and Cultivating Vineyards
and for Making Wine in New
South Wales.
In the introduction he said
the booklet was addressed “to
that more numerous portion
of the community constituting
the class of smaller settlers....
to convince them that they
may, with little trouble and
scarcely any expense, enjoy
their daily bottle of wine
the wholesome wine which is
prepared from the pure juice
of the grape, and which, diluted
with water, forms the principal
drink of all classes of the
inhabitants of wine-countries.”
In his dedication of the
booklet to Governor Darling,


*
1
■
■ ■
Quality Wines and Brandies
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Fesq 8c Co. Pty. Ltd. (for
wines); Crawford & Co. (A/sia) Pty.
Ltd., Sydney (for brandy). VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough Mort 8c Co. Limited;
Theo Howell 8c Co. Pty. Ltd.
QUEENSLAND: Goldsbrough Mort
8c Co. Ltd. TASMANIA: Importers
Pty. Ltd., Hobart. WEST AUST.:
L. H. Quartermaine 8c Co., Fremantle.
w
'
Australia’s
oldest cellar ...
Home of the finest Wines
Since 1838 the Reynella vineyards, 13 miles south of
Adelaide, have been drawing on the riches of sunshine
and the ideal soil of the district to produce wines famous
for their quality.
All types of wine are made here. The country is par-
ticularly well suited for Claret, Burgundy, Port, Sherry,
Sauternes and Brandy, and these Reynella products in
particular have earned esteem among connoisseurs.
Quality has always been a first consideration . . .
the quality that only comes from careful winemaking
and long maturing in the wood.
WALTER REYNELL & SONS, LIMITED,
REYNELLA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Busby wrote, “It is designed
to increase the comforts and
promote the morality of the
native-born youth.”
Warming to his work, Busby
wrote that no greater service
could be rendered the young
colony than to induce its
inhabitants to cultivate the vine,
neglected hitherto through
ignorance. “Had it been settled
by a colony from France....
we should at this day have s§en
few cornfields without their
neighboring vineyards, and
the poorest settler, aye, and
his meanest servant, would have
daily regaled their palates and
invigorated their bodies with
this first of the blessings which
nature bestows upon the more
genial climates of earth.”
Busby must have put a good
case to the Colonial Office
about his treatment in Aus-
tralia, because he was granted
compensation of £1033. In
September, 1831, he set-out
on another tour of the vine-
yards and wineries of Europe
and wandered for four months
through Spain and France.
Wherever he went he col-
lected cuttings from the best
vines, and finally, through the
Colonial Office, he presented
600 choice cuttings to the
Sydney Botanic Gardens, and
many of the big vineyards in
New South Wales, South Aus-
tralia and Victoria began with
cuttings which he sent out.
A new career was now to
open up for this amazing
young man. His ambition was
still to see wine-making be-
come a big thing in New South
Wales, but there was to be a
more exciting and dangerous
life ahead. The Colonial Sec-
retary, Lord Goderich, had
been impressed by Busby, and
appointed him official Resident
at the Bay of Islands, New
Zealand.
The British Government for
some time had been perturbed
at reports of violent happen-
ings in New Zealand, which
was then little known. Condi-
tions were worst at the Bay of
Islands, on the North Island.
Tales came in of the lawless
behavior of sealing- and
whaling-crews, timber-cutters
and runaway convicts, who
were burning Maori villages,
kidnapping Maori women and
brawling among themselves. So
James Busby was sent-out
alone to deal with the situa-
tion.
When he heard the news in
Sydney, Govenor Bourke was
horrified. He protested bitterly,
and said that to put-down
Busby in the Bay of Islands
was like having “a man-o’-war
without guns.” So it proved to
be.
After setting him an almost
impossible task, the British
Government forgot him, and
when a warship finally arrived
at the Bay, he was almost
starved of supplies and his
clothes were so tattered that
he was ashamed to face the
captain.
The whalers and sealers
sneered at his authority. They
sold rum and guns to the
Maoris, smuggled their women
onto ships, and continued on
their lawless way. Busby's
determination, however, finally
began to impress the Maoris,
and they offered to make him
“king” of all their lands. But
Busby advised the Maoris to
swear allegiance to the Crown
of Britain.
After the Maori Wars, Busby
had his last great moment of
triumph when Captain William
Hobson was sent out as the
first Lieutenant-Governor to
the Bay of Islands. Hobson
was ill on board his ship
when the draft of the famous
Treaty of Waitangi was
drawn-up in Busby’s residency,
and British rule really began
in New Zealand when the
Maori chiefs Busby had sum-
moned put their marks to the
document.
When New Zealand became
a separate colony in 1840 all
previous deals with the Maoris
were cancelled and Busby, who
had sunk his entire fortune in
land, sawmills and cattle, was
left with only a fraction of
his property. Three times
he went to England seek-
ing compensation and at
last he was awarded £23,000,
all of which went to his
creditors.
In 1870 he went back to
London, a bitter, beaten man,
exhausted, deaf, and nearly
blind. He died in July, 1870, at
his lodgings in Portland Place.
European Vintage Tour
Sponsored by the Australian
Wine Producers’ Association,
the greatest vintage tour ever
staged from this country is
to be made from March 25
until May 11, 1960. The
itinerary will include Hong
Kong, Turkey, France, Ger-
many, Italy and Switzerland.
Inclusive cost (by air, first
class) from Sydney back to
Sydney, will be £l4OO. J. K.
Walker, of Rhine Castle Wiiies,
will carry the banner.


mda. s>ijtest hy ifeed^l
HOUSE
FOUNDED
IN 1757
the world’s favourite aperitif
3 TYPES:
Sweety Dry and Bianco
CIN/80
SPARKLING WINES
Then give me champagne! And
contentment be mine!
Wealth, women, ambition —I
cast them away.
My garlanded forehead let vine-
leaves entwine
And life shall to me be one long
summer’s day,
With tears of the clustering grape
for its rain
And its sunshine ? —the bright
golden floods of champagne !
Whyte-Melville.
/Champagne is for celebra-
tions, great events and great
occasions. No other wine is
so festive. There’s eternal
freshness and surprise in its
fine bubbles. But how those
bubbles originally got there
is even more surprising.
They were an accident.
Champagne in the first place
was a still French dinner-wine,
red if made from black grapes,
white if made from white
grapes. It wasn’t until the end
of the 17th century that it
started to get bubbles in it.
And it wasn’t till 100 years
ago that it became generally
accepted as a sparkling wine.
What happened originally
was that a French winemaker,
Dorn Perignon (1639-1715),
started using stoppers made
of cork-bark in place of the
loose wads of hemp that were
generally stuffed into bottles
to keep dust out of wine—it
was never stored very long.
These made good stoppers,
because they kept in the bottles
the natural gas formed when
the wine was still gently fer-
menting. And that was the
happy hit of sparkling wine.
It’s no accident now. To
produce a fine sparkling wine
in Australia, as ,well as in
France, is such a delicate and
painstaking task that some
makers have computed that
every bottle, from the picking
of the grapes to the final
labelling and dispatch, passes
through close on 100 pairs of
hands.
All that care doesn’t leave
it languishing in a state of
delicacy so fragile that you’re
scared to look at it. It’s just
the opposite. The attention it
gets through its life brings it
to a state which makes it able
to stand-up to rigors better
than any other wine.
Have a look at what Aus-
tralian champagne has to go
through before it comes to
your party.
It may be from three to
ten years in the cellar. From
there it is brought up suddenly
to the light, washed, done-up
with label and foil, packed in
cases and sent out to market.
Probably its first trip is by
rail to a port. If it’s in winter,
it will stand all night—perhaps
many nights—through frost
and sleet, till it’s dropped into
the hold of a freighter that
will take it, pitching and heav-
ing all the way, perhaps, to
the stifling heat of Cairns in
North Queensland.
Some of it may go on by
rail or road to other northern
parts and stand under the hot
tin-roof of a railway-siding or
transport-depot till it’s col-
lected.
Or it may go to England,
through all the changes and
chances of a voyage from one
side of the earth to the other.
It may arrive in England in
summer or winter and be
dragged here and there, stored,
unstacked, distributed, and
generally pushed round like
any other merchandise.
Finally, whether in Australia
or England, it is plunged ruth-
lessly into a bucket of crushed
ice and opens-up fresh and
gay, its sparkle a joy to watch
and savor, as if it had been
tenderly nursed from the day
it came out of the cellar.
Noted wine-expert Andre
Simon once said: “There is
no other wine that can stand
what champagne can stand.”
A vat of grape-juice fer-
menting, with all the minute
yeast-cells using -up their
natural sugar and gradually
converting the juice into wine,
is a restless, urgent mass of
froth and bubble. When it
has become wine, ready for
bottling, the winemaker checks
to see there is enough sugar
in each bottle for the slighter,
more intimate bout of ferment-
ation, which produces those
bubbles that came originally
to sparkling wine by accident.
The bottles are stacked in
the cellar for some time and
then placed in racks, corks
down, at an angle of about 45
degrees. Regularly a special
cellar-worker, in some parts
called a shaker, passes along
the racks, takes each bottle
and gives it a slight shake to
stop the sediment fermenting
into its neck.
Finally, when ready, it
passes from the cellar to a
re-corking plant, where, in
most modern wineries, the
neck of the bottle is frozen —
it’s still held cork-down —so
that the sediment becomes a
solid bullet of ice. When the
cork is released, the gas in the
bottle blows this bullet out.
The wine is now crystal-clear
and still full of bubbles. Be-
fore many of them can escape,
the small amount of wine lost
in the temporary uncorking
is replaced, a new cork is
rammed in and tied down, and
the gayest wine in the world
is ready to rest and recover its
balance till it’s fit for drinking.
Surprisingly little of the
wine’s fine sparkle is lost in
the disgorging and re-corking.
From its fermentation in the
bottle it has developed a pres-
sure of 851 b. to the square-
inch. When it has been re-
corked it still has a pressure
of about 751 b., which is so
great, in fact, that all sparkling-
wine bottles must be built
with a deep concave base and
stout walls to hold it.
To quote Andre Simon
again:
Champagne is the best wine, as
a matter of fact, the only wine,
one can enjoy last thing at night
and first, thing in the morning, at
a ball in the early hours of the
morning, and at 11 o'clock the
same morning when a gentle pick-
me-up is so welcome.
All sparkling wines should
be served in dry, well-polished
glasses. If the glasses are even
slightly damp, the bubbles will
lose their liveliness. They’ll
still be there, but it’s astonish-
ing how sluggish they can
become in a glass not
thoroughly dried.
More than 70 years of
zealous devotion have gone
into the production of today’s
fine Australian sparkling
wines. The first of them was
made in the early 1870’s, near
Albury (N.S.W.). Hans Irving,
a great winemaker from
Europe, took-over vineyards
in Victoria, brought out
Charles Pierlot and a team of
French champagne operatives,
and from 1887 began to pro-
duce sparkling wines of high
quality. The Frenchmen
gradually drifted away, but
they left behind them the
traditions and methods they
brought from their native
land. In fact, everywhere in
Australia today the technique
of making sparkling wines is
exactly that imported from the
Continent in the 1880’s.
At first, of course, only
small amounts of Australian
sparkling wines were produced
at scattered places. But as the
surprising quality of the Aus-
tralian product became known
the making of sparkling wine
spread to wineries in the main
wine-producing States of
N.S.W., Victoria and South
Australia. Today the output
of Australian sparkling wine
is at least five times what it
was at the turn of the eentury.
How does it compare with
French sparkling wine? The
first thing you must under-
stand about it is that, like all
Australian wines, it is different,
but it is good. They vary, of
course —just as wines vary in
Europe. But their general
quality has been described by
John Arlott, leading member
of the English Wine and Food
Society and wine-and-food
correspondent to the London
“Evening News” and “Spec-
tator,” as “beautiful.”


wlien
comes to
ome maxjao
stands
out
"Z.
•Si
:r-.
■' <p
«' ■ **r
.;•
■- -
=32====^
US
'■'■r ■«
;>m
—.
*
%
M
MIAMI*
IMlcisters of


THE COWBOY HAT
By DAL STIVENS
HE was a cattleman,
tough and stubborn
as the North Coast
coastal hills where his
stock grazed. He stood, dazed
by the tragedy that struck at
him, his words coming slowly
and harshly:
“But I know what hap-
pened, Sergeant. I have the
evidence of my eyes. That bay
was well trained. If Margaret
had fallen off, he’d have stood
still! Someone jammed her
foot in the stirrup—when she
was unconscious and then
lashed the bay on the rump.”
He said “someone” with
ironic hatred. Tom Fisher was
50, broad in the shoulders,
his face tanned with ham-
mocks of wrinkles round the
eyes, now brooding, and the
mouth, now drawn to a line.
That afternoon his daughter
and only child had been found
with half her head smashed-in,
her left foot caught in the
stirrup, and her horse sweat-
ing and shivering.
“I’ve sent for a black-
tracker,” said the police-
sergeant. “He’ll pick up the
tracks and we’ll see if anyone
was there. The tracker will
be able to follow his tracks.”
“There was someone there
all right,” said Tom Fisher.
“In a corner of the paddock
there were fifty of my steers
all knocked-up. They had
been driven hard. Margaret
came along and saw him so he
killed her. Hit her on the
back of the head and then
jammed her boot in the
stirrup. He galloped off then
but lost his hat.”
The father knew the name
of the man he was accusing
but he couldn’t bear to name
him. It was the policeman
who spoke the name now:
“Johnny Winter says the
hat isn’t his. And Flanagan
swears Winter was at his pub
all the afternoon.” The police-
sergeant shifted restlessly in
his saddle, his lean face work-
ing with hatred. “That mob
all stick together.” He spat
contemptuously into the sum-
mer dust. “A bunch of cattle-
thieves! I’d give a stripe to
catch them. And now this!”
The sergeant was holding a
cowboy hat in his hand. It
had a leather chinstrap and
now he twirled it round before
speaking again. “It’s brand
new, but I’ll have a shot to
see if I can trace it back to
Mr. Flash Johnny Winter.
Trouble is there’s a rodeo in
three weeks and all the young
lairs have been buying these
American cowboy hats.”
Tlut the father wasn’t listen-
ing. “Margaret would have
been twenty-one in another
month —on the fifteenth,” he
was saying. “I was breaking-in
that chestnut for her.”
He pointed to the yard
where a two-year-old colt was
nervously teetering around in
little circles.
“He’s a beauty! ” said the
policeman.
“Come and see him,” said
the father.
The policeman got down
from his horse, tied his mount,
and followed the father. Tom
Fisher opened the gate and
waved the policeman into the
yard. The chestnut stallion
reared away excitedly and then
stepped back.
“Gently, boy,” called tha
father to the horse. “He’s
quite gentle, really,” he said
assuringly to the policeman.
“He knows something is
wrong. But he’s gentle as a
lamb. I was breaking him for
the lass.”
Tom Fisher was famous in
the district for his skill with
horses. The chestnut came
forward, now quietened by his
master’s voice, and nuzzled the
policeman’s hand.
“Superb quarters,” said the
policeman of the thorough-
bred, for he, too, was a horse-
man in an area where great
horsemen were common. “You
could do anything with a horse
like that.”
The policeman rode away
some minutes later. Tom
Fisher stood looking at the
chestnut.
An hour later a thunder-
storm came round the bucket-
shaped hills and it began to
rain heavily.
“That ruins it for the
tracker,” said the policeman ;
and cursed.
Sleek, dark Johnny Winter,
swaggering in cowboy chaps
at Flanagan’s hotel, heard the
rain hitting the tin roof and
smiled slyly at Flanagan.
'T'he sergeant called on Tom
Fisher three weeks later.
“Can’t get a thing on
Winter,” he said. “Keep it
quiet, but I’ve had a plain-
clothes bloke from the city
spending most of his time
drinking at Flanagan’s. But I
think they’re wise to him
We’ve checked on the hat and
drawn a blank. It was sold
in Weebilla but the shopkeeper
can’t remember who bought
it. Some stranger, he thinks.
We showed him Winter’s pic-
ture but he wouldn’t swear.
We’re keeping trying, Tom.”
The father said: “Don’t
worry, Bill.” He was watching
the chestnut. “I’d like that
hat if you’ve finished with it.”
The policeman said : “What
for?”
“You could call it a
souvenir, Bill,” said the father.
He was still watching the
colt. “I might finish breaking-
in that fellow, to give me
something to do.”
The next morning he rose
early and rode into town to
collect the hat from the police-
station.
He began working with the
colt, and neighbors riding
along the road, half a mile
from the homestead, heard
him calling to the colt and
smiled.
“It’ll help him to forget and
to stop brooding,” they said,
turning in their saddles. “He
took it bad. You know what
everyone thinks but you can’t
prove it. That flash rat,
Johnny Winter . . .”
They heard Tom Fisher
constantly thereafter, and after
a time they shook their heads.
“Tom must have lost his
touch since the kid was killed,”
they said. “I never heard him
have trouble before with a
colt. Listen to that stallion
-squealing. The horse is turn-
ing sour . . .”
Tom Fisher went to Flana-
gan’s one Saturday afternoon.
It surprised everyone because
he never went there before.
“That colt is turning out
bad,” he told them. “He may
turn out an outlaw.”
“Sorry to hear that, Mr.
Fisher,” said Flanagan, fat and
obsequious, and one eye on
the door because he was afraid
Johnny Winter might come in.
Flanagan didn’t want trouble
in his bar.
But Johnny Winter didn’t
come. One of his cronies in
the bar had tipped him off.
Johnny was their lord—a posi-
tion he held by his ability with


Big money is being made today..
Sm
mm
m ■
••
m
v-sa
m
At left is shown a newly installed battery
of eight 3,500 bushel Lysaght Grain Silos
at Copiah. Designed for the bulk storage
of oats silo batteries of this type enable the
owner to hold stocks in safety against price
rises later in the season.
Below is shown a mixed battery of four
2,000 bushel and four 3,500 bushel Lysaght
Grain Silos used in the storage of high
quality premium wheat. Sold late in the
season, the extra profit from the sale of
this wheat could in itself pay for the cost
of the silo installation.
Every farmer knows that oats and wheat he?d
until late in the season bring the highest prices. Some
are actually making fortunes in this way, aided by the
intelligent use of batteries of Lysaght Grain Silos.
You can do the same, starting with two or three silos
and adding one or more each year. The services of a
Lysaght Field Representative are always available to
help and advise you on the most suitable location for
Lysaght Grain Silos. Our technical staff is also
happy to assist you in the planning of proven battery
layouts, auger installations, etc.
Keep in mind, too, that fodder conservation expenses
are tax deductible. In every way, your investment
in Lysaght Grain Silos is a sure means of increasing
your income. Post the coupon below for full details !
Features of the LYSAGHT Grain Silo
• Made of heavy gauge galvanized steel
sheet and supplied with all bolts, etc.
required.
• Easily erected, yet a permanent
asset to any property. Completely
fire, weather and rodent proof.
• Hinged type bag ho'lder on 1,000 to
4,500 bushel silos is standard equip-
ment.
• Steel earth rings, loading platforms
and internal ladders available as
extras wjiere required.
• A new type bagging outlet large
enough for a man to enter the silo
is now available.
This can be fitted to replace the
smaller bagging outlet unit on
Lysaght Grain Silos purchased since
195 f.
s;
i
l
LYSAGHT RURAL PRODUCTS The Key
to Successful Modern Farming
To John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited
(City) ...
Note: N.S.W. enquiries should be directed to John
Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited, Newcastle Works,
Newcastle. In other States please refer your enquiry
to the office of John Lysaght (Australia) Pty.
Limited in your State.
/ am especially interested in:
LONG TERM FODDER STORAGE 0
SHORT TERM OR ‘BULK HANDLING’ □
WATER STORAGE 0
(Please tick the square opposite the unit you are most
interested in)
Please send me details of the following Lysaght Pre-
fabricated Products)
WATER TANKS GRAIN SILOS
10,000 gal. (flat plate) 0 200 bushel 0
25,000 gal.(corrugated 0 250 bushel (elev.) 0
50,000 gal 0 500 bushel 0
75,000 gal 0 1,000 bushel 0
100,000 gal 0 2,000 bushel (tall) 0
Universal Grain Bins 0 2,000 bushel (squat) 0
Hay Shed .. ..0 3,000 bushel 0
Earth Rings .. -.0 3,500 bushel 0
Grain Augers (Ver.) 0 4,500 bushel 0
F-
PRICES (F.O.R. Newcastle)
OKB
LYSAGHT
GRAIN SILOS
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED,
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed jmy cheque/money-order
for . . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
tree. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign. £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965. Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; { year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to. country cheques*
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
his fists and in the saddle. He
was the acknowledged cham-
pion roughrider of the district.
Tom Fisher drank there
regularly after that. Some-
times he talked of the colt
that was turning out bad and
sometimes he didn’t.
“I’m set on making a good
horse out of him,” he said
one Saturday afternoon. “It
was to have been my girl’s
horse. He wouldn’t have
bolted with her.”
He went quickly out of the
bar after saying that, and in
the open he clenched his fists
and spat hard into the gutter
as though there was something
nasty on his tongue.
Once he met Johnny Winter,
tall, dark and slinking. He
nodded but didn’t speak.
A while later, the police-
sergeant dropped in to see
the father.
“Got another idea about
that hat,” he said. “Have you
still got it?”
“It’s over now,” said the
father.
“I want to get that bastard,”
said the policeman. “I don’t
care how I do it.”
The father went away and
returned after some minutes.
“I seem to have misplaced
that hat,” he said. “I thought
I put it in the harness-hoom.”
“Well, it doesn’t matter,”
said the policeman. “I don’t
suppose it would have come
to anything. I’ll try some-
thing else.”
“Come and look at the
colt,” said the father. “He’s
gone sour.”
In the yard the chestnut
stallion reared on his hind legs
when he saw the men. His
eyes rolled back, showing a
fierce milk whiteness; he
squealed with bared teeth and
clawed at the air. He walked
forward on hind legs and
thundered at the stockyard,
steely hooves smashing at the
rails.
“Can’t do much with him,”
said the policeman after a
minute.
“I’ll send him to the next
rodeo company that comes
round,” said the father.
“There’s no one in this dis-
trict who could stick on his
back.”
“By hang, I’ll give it a go,”
said the policeman, laughing.
“That’s a challenge.”
“No!” said the father,
loudly. “No, I forbid it!”
The policeman looked hurt
and puzzled.
“All right,” he said slowly.
“He’s your horse.”
When he rode off he said,
“While .I’m here I’ll drop-in
on Flanagan’s. I might fluke
onto something.”
Half a mile away the police-
man’s mount jumped suddenly
as the chestnut stallion
screamed in blinding fury.
morning a neighbor,
' Jim Blake, a noted horse-
man, rode over to see Tom
Fisher.
“I heard about your colt
from Sergeant Foyle,” he said.
“I want a crack at him.”
“I’m keeping him for the
next rodeo troupe that comes
here,” said Tom Fisher. “No
one here can ride him.”
“Let me see if you’re right.”
“No,” said Tom Fisher.
“You got a crush?” said the
neighbor. “We could herd him
in and try.”
“No,” said Tom Fisher.
“Besides, he’s dangerous.”
Others came during the next
three days to take up the chal-
lenge, but Tom refused.
On the fourth day Johnny
Winter came on a flashy black
gelding, swanking in chaps
and punched cowboy hat.
With him came four of his
cronies.
“I want a crack at your
colt, Mr. Fisher,” he said. “I
hear you" reckon no one round
here is good enough.”
“No one rides him,” said
Tom Fisher. “Except, per-
haps, myself. He’s my horse
and I want a good price from
the rodeo troupe. I was about
to try—see?”
He pointed to the crush
where the colt was jammed,
but lashing out.
“I want to try him,” said
Johnny Winter, dark close
eyes glinting. He looked round
his mob, appraising the respect
he was winning in their eyes.
“No,” said Tom Fisher.
“And I’ll trouble you to get
off my property.”
They went slowly, Johnny
Winter looking uncertainly at
the other horsemen. Tom
Fisher watched them go and
then he mounted a stockhorse
and took the track leading
to the road.
T ater that day Sergeant
Foyle asked: “Where did
Winter and the others go?”
“Down the track,” said Tom
Fisher. “I thought they were
making for Flanagan’s, but
they must have seen me leave
and decided to double back.
I told them not to go near the
colt.”
“I heard that,” said the
sergeant.
He glanced over to the
stockyard where a tarpaulin
was humped over something.
“Mr. Flash Johnny Winter
doesn’t look so pretty now.”
He spoke without any
emotion. *
“I’ve seen some dead men
in bad accidents but most of
them had more of their faces
left. You can only recognise
Winter by his clothes.”
“I warned him,” said the
father.
“Tossed him off and then
went for him,” said the police-
man. “Kicked his face in.”
He nodded towards the stock-
yard. “We’ll take him away.”
The father was looking at
the bulged tarpaulin, not
listening.
“I have no more questions,”
said the policeman. “There’ll
be a few at the inquest but
nothing to worry about.”
He shut up his notebook.
“No more questions,” said the
policeman, with his mind.
“There’s one I could ask, but
won’t.”
TTe wouldn’t have got an
answer to that one. Three
nights earlier Tom Fisher had
burnt the cowboy hat and its
tiara of nails with which he
regularly slashed the stallion
across the muzzle, goading him
into a brain-searing hatred.
The sergeant said, echoing
the father’s thoughts:
“We’ll have to shoot the
colt, I suppose, though h«
doesn’t deserve it.”
THE PLAYGROUND AT MIDNIGHT
As evening draws the light from out the day,
Of light and breadth is shrinkage and an end,
Is one last child in creaking parkground play,
The lock-up booth the juggler won’t defend.
So is the fountain’s cup upon its chain,
The empty swing, the wind-swayed Roman-rings,
Last talisman that twilight can sustain
Against the clearer vagueness in the wings.
Within the darkness spilling through the boughs
(That swells the hinterland of every bole)
The rustic doubts emerge, and each avows
To slink and seize and overmatch the soul.
As evening draws the light from out the day,
Is wind-swayed Roman-rings, an empty swing,
Retrieve the child in twilight from its play,
From those sly kobolds watching from the wings.
VICTORIA.
NOEL MACAINSH.


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Assets exceed £64,000,000)
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. ’Phone FM 5861
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE
FOR SAFE INVESTING
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURES
Kate of Interest Currency of Issue
7% • 6 years
(and over)
6 Vi% .... 4 years
6% 3 years
5Vi% .... 2 years
5% 1 year
4 1 /a% .... 9 months
4% 6 months
3 f /2% .... 3 months
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments,
free of exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March.
A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue
of Registered Debentures has been lodged with
the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
The Prospectus is now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
All Branches of
The National Bank
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
All Branches of
Custom Credit Corporation
LIMITED
RD15.79
remarked, “reserved.” It was
the same in “Waters”:
This water, like a sky that no
one uses,
Air turned to stone, ridden
by stars and birds
No longer, but with clouds of
crystal swimming
I’ll not forget, nor men can
lose, though words
Dissolve with music, gradually
dimming.
So let them die ; whatever the
mind loses,
Water remains, cables and
bells remain,
And strangers, pitching on our
graves their camps,
Will break through branches
to the surf again.
Darkness comes. The Harbor
shakes its mane,
Glazed like a leaf of amber ;
lights appear
Like thieves too early, drop-
ping their swag by night,
Red, gold and green, down
trapdoors glassy clear,
And lanterns over Pinchgut
flood with light . . .
The piece continues:
All this will last, but I who
gaze must go
On water stranger and less
clear, and melt
With flesh away; and stars
that I have felt,
And loved, shall shine for eyes
1 do not know.
'“There, in that Bulletin
-*■ office, this tranquillity was
broken by a machine-gun
burst of drills in the construc-
tion job in Bridge Street, just
across the lane that ends some-
where above what was once
the Tank Stream.
Despite this formidable
competition, the reading was
impressive, Slessor’s voice
picking-up subtleties of sound
and meaning not, perhaps,
always plain in print.
And this is a good argument
for having poems read by their
makers, even though not all
the poets are so successful.
Another good argument is
that, underneath differences in
style and delivery, it is sur-
prising how the personalities
of the poets come through—•
through the sounds of nearby
demolition that day at The
Bulletin office, and, again,
through the occasional bark-
ing of a de Burg dog, shut
outside and indignant, at the
c o 11 e c t o r’s Bellevue Hill
(Sydney) home ; where,
another Wednesday afternoon,
Mrs. de Burg very kindly gave
me lunch and played more
poets and answered questions.
This eruption of personality
is another advantage, particu-
larly as the collection, started
modestly as a private interest
(“I’ve always loved poetry”),
is now for posterity ; at least,
copies are. At Canberra they
will be made on disks which
will last 500 years, and will go
into the archives.
So future generations will
hear not only a poet’s voice
reading his poem, but his own
explanation of why he wrote
it. They will also hear such
revealing bits as David Camp-
bell’s “Er—ah —I wrote thi9
after riding around my lambs
—er” (but subsequently, when
he came to the poem itself,
proceeding straight and un-
impeded, like a Rugby winger
scoring a textbook try). Or
they will hear, for instance,
Mary Gilmore interrupting
her own poem to remark con-
versationally “Father was
always good to the aborigines.”
At The Bulletin Hazel de
Burg played some more
tapes—Val Vallis, Judith
Wright and one or two others.
Then, for the benefit of a
couple of staff-men who had
wandered in, she put on Bill
again.
Inevitably, listening to the
voice, one thought about the
owner. In his life there had
been a distinct danger of
undervaluing him, because Bill
Fitz Henry was, as Bill Prior
remarked shortly after the
funeral, a “humble man,”
thinking nothing of turning
from a conference with some
literary big-wig to mind the
telephone-switch or open the
mail.
Humility—the real thing,
not the polite pretence—is rare
enough to merit special recog-
nition.
Bill Fitz Henry’s voice has
a deliberation which, without
the rest of Bill there to balance
it—the short stature, the
slightly ruffled, usually cheer-
ful air, the faintly cherubic
face, the good humor and the
“certain boyishness”—might,
perhaps, sound a bit didactic
—to someone who didn’t know
Bill.
But this was Bill’s lecture-
voice, and he was talking
about Henry Lawson. He was,
so to speak, on sacred ground.
Bill had a respect for writing
and writers, as such, very
soothing to encounter ; particu-
larly soothing for minor
writers, and what may be
called minimal writers, like
myself. But I imagine the
major ones found it pleasant,
too. In Bill’s private hierarchy
a writer —any writer —enjoyed
a status equivalent to, say, a
politician or financier in the
wicked world outside.
Not that Bill was a stranger
to that world—he was a fre-
quent and welcome visitor to
it. Incidentally, he once knew
a moneylender who went broke
financing journalists. He knew
all sorts of surprising people.
'"That was Bill’s general—
though generally unspoken
—attitude, and it is a rare one,
even among consciously
“literary” people.
Henry Lawson, though, was
something special. One of the
great ones in the long line of
Bulletin contributors and,
too, the advocate (although,
of course, he didn’t invent it)
of that “philosophy of mate-
ship” which, worn though it
has become with overmuch
literary use, and so easy to
sneer at, does sometimes sur-
prisingly manifest itself in the
flesh, striking critics dumb: in,
for instance, Bill Fitz Henry.
The talk was about Bill’s
personal recollections of Henry
Lawson. Henry coming in to
The Bulletin to see S. H.
Prior, A. G. Stephens or some
of the other people who
handled his copy. Henry’s
death, and people coming up
the stairs all that day and the
(Continued on page 60)


Spotlight on New Guinea
Government policy in Papua and
New Guinea has come in for a
lot of criticism lately. Some of
this has come from Opposition
members ; some from the Government’s
own side of the House.
In the Budget debate at the end of
August, Roy Wheeler, M.H.R. for
Mitchell, expressed disquiet at some of
the things he had seen and heard in New
Guinea. He said that arbund Port
Moresby and Rabaul there were gather-
ing colonies of detribalised natives runn-
ing into considerable numbers. Mostly
they had been brought from the interior
to work, but had either finished their
contracts or refused to work in the
employment for which they were engaged.
Wheeler said he felt that this was “the
classic breeding-ground for trouble
between the European and native com-
munities,” which had caused so much
strife in Africa.
He suggested that a too-lenient attitude
by the Territory administration might
turn out to be false kindness to the
natives. Contracts could be one-way
affairs to the official mind.
The employer must obey the terms of
the contract, because he disobeys at his
peril; but there is no practical way pro-
vided of enforcing the terms of a contract
on the native if he chooses to walk out.
Interfering Mothers-in-law
TI/Tieeler also spoke of the difficulty
of governing New Guinea under
United Nations trusteeship, saying it was
like “trying to rear a strange and rather
difficult child under the personal super-
vision of 80 interfering mothers-in-law.”
Stressing that every white resident of
New Guinea, official or non-official, was
really a representative of Australia, he
said that the basic weakness of the
administration was that “many of the
officials regarded-the private traders and
settlers as interlopers in their island
paradise—men who are there on suffer-
ance and who will be eliminated in due
course.”
Linking this attitude with the Minister
for Territories, he said that Hasluck, in
January, 1958, had referred to a large
section of the New Guinea business com-
munity as “locusts” and that this gave a
perfect one-word picture of the way the
administration regarded the private
trader.
Wheeler said it was time the Govern-
ment gave some thought to an announce-
ment on future policy.
Whatever the theorists of the United
Nations may say, New Guinea could never
stand alone. It must be administered as
a partnership. The native population,
primitive in thought, culture and educa-
tional standards, will not be ready for
complete self-government for a very long
while to c0me....1 am convinced that
in the Territory the economic and political
future lies in partnership with the Euro-
pean settler. He will be needed, not as
a temporary guide and instructor, but as
a permanent part of the population.
The New Guinea Legislative Council
would have to be reconstituted, Wheeler
said, to provide greater elected repre-
sentation of both the European and the
native taxpaying communities. There
should also be an elected representative
in the Federal Parliament, with voting
powers similar to those given to the
member for the Northern Territory.
Similar proposals to these have been
made by the Taxpayers’ Association of
Papua.
Not Happily Chosen, But . . »
TTasluck, in his speech on the
Estimates, referred to Wheeler’s
criticism. Of the “locust” remark he
said .perhaps the word was not happily
chosen, but it was “a fairly exact descrip-
tion of a comparatively small section.”
He had used it in order to point a con-
trast between the majority of Europeans
who are in the Territory either to serve
the people or to develop its resources, and
“the less useful minority of Europeans
who have flown in for the sake of the
pickings.”
He denied that under his administra-
tion private enterprise had been put in
the discard in New Guinea and he listed
various examples of Government encour-
agement of private enterprise.
In my thinking, private enterprise means
the enterprise of the indigenous people as
well as of the European. Furthermore,
because of the conditions in the Territory
there are obvious limits to the scope of
European enterprise. That limit is set by
the interests of the indigenous people....
One limit to European enterprise is neces-
sarily set by the availability of land.
Another and less clearly discernible limit
is set by the availability of labor.
Under present conditions there could
be no forced or indentured labor, but
“only labor by the agreement of the
worker.”
For the time being a policy that preserves
land for the native tends also to reduce
the supply of labor, for the native can
either subsist on his garden or use his land
to grow cash-crops on hjs own account.
With a growing population and
increased urbanisation, however, Hasluck
said, there would be more natives look-
ing for wage-earning employment to
maintain them at a higher standard-of-
living. For the next 30 years at least
this employment could only be supplied
by Europeans, who would be the only
ones with the technical, managerial,
organising and marketing skill and with
the capital for investment. It was plain,
therefore, that New Guinea was not a
country where the European could do as
he pleased in disregard of the native
population ; nor was it a place where the
needs of the indigenous people could be
satisfied without the aid of European
enterprise.
Vital to Australia
Tt is not surprising that there should be
a conflict of views on what is right
and proper for the development of New
Guinea. Sixty years ago New Guinea
could be considered in isolation ; today
it must be viewed against a world back-
ground. Australia did not go into New
Guinea in the first place either to develop
it as a trust territory for the benefit of
the natives or to establish it as a white
colony. It moved because the island was
a sort of power-vacuum which in
unfriendly hands could be a menace to
Australia. Australia saw the danger of
German ownership before Britain became
aware of it, and 30 years later it saw the
greater danger of Japanese ownership.
That was when Billy Hughes, to his
eternal credit, stood up against Woodrow
Wilson at Versailles and gained a man-
date over German New Guinea for this
country.
World War II showed how essential
New Guinea was to the defence of Aus-
tralia. Despite nuclear weapons it is
still essential. We cannot afford to have
an unfriendly Power in control of New
Guinea (and that includes Dutch New
Guinea), and for the same reason we
cannot afford to have an unfriendly
native population there. Government
policy—supported by the Opposition—is
to train the natives for eventual self-
government, but it is rightly recognised
that this is a long-term objective.
It is just as unrealistic to demand —as
U.N.„teams have done —an early target-
date as it is to say that the Papuans will
never be capable of managing their own
affairs. If ever a problem demanded a
tolerant approach, free from the political
discords of the mainland, it is this one.
Deputy Opposition-leader Calwell’s
speech on the Estimates showed a
reasonable approach, but some Labor
men are completely unrealistic on the
subject. Thinking in terms of Aus-
tralian rates of pay fcr Papuans is as
ridiculous as regarding New Guinea as
a field for employment of white trade-
unionists. Australian wage-rates are
based on the capacity of the economy to
meet them. To assume the same rates
for New Guinea implies the assumption
of a New Guinea economy of equal
capacity per capita to that of Australia—
which is absurd. Nor does it help to take
the attitude that all white settlers and
traders are exploiters—that sort of talk
plays into the hands of Australia’s
enemies.
There are probably many aspects of
New Guinea administration that could
with profit be investigated—Calwell’s
suggestion of a joint Parliamentary com-
mittee might be the answer —but an
elected representative in the Federal
Parliament doesn’t seem practicable. The
Northern Territory is not a fair analogy.
The expectation is that the N.T. will
before long have a big enough white
population to justify its becoming a State.
That future cannot be envisaged for New
Guinea.


(4+oi,e tfucun
yeatS as
the Pen
ivith the
Marvellous
QOLD
Nib!
B5 L 42/ 6d.
Other Conway Models
2916 d. to 751-
the finest Pens
the Greatest Value
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
V.4.T.C.
Sydney trainer Peter Lawson
recently described the Caulfield
Cup as the hardest race in
Australia to win—and Peter
should know; he has been
trying to win the Cup since
1914. The . race calls for a
fast, stayer, who can hold a
prominent place throughout
and retain stamina to fight on
in the last furlong.
“Scobie” Breasley, now riding
in England, had a wonderful Caul-
field Cup record, with five suc-
cesses. Frank Dempsey, now
V.R.C. starter, won the race three
times. Five-year-olds have won
28 Cups, four-year-olds 20, six-
year-olds 14, three-year-olds 11
(including the last two), and aged
horses njne. The last mare to
win was Tranquil Star (1942).
If he runs, Mac should win
this year’s Cup. Smokey Jane
is nicely handicapped with ,
only 7.5, and has both speed
and courage. Amanullah has
been heavily backed for the
race, and will benefit from
Ron Hutchinson’s services.
Nether Gold appeals with his
featherweight, and, if the track
is wet, Malarno will give
a great sight.
• • • •
Selections: Mac, 1 ; Smokey
Jane, 2; Amanullah, 3.
Main race at Caulfield today
(Wednesday) will be the nine-
furlongs w.-f.-a. Caulfield Stakes,
which has often been a reliable
guide to the Cup winner; since
1930 Amounis, Tranquil Star,
Columnist, Rising Fast and Red-
craze have completed the double.
Amanullah’s form in today’s race
will be closely watched, though, on
his- home-track, Lord should win
the Stakes.
It is not often a 20-to-l out-
sider gets as enthusiastic a
reception from the crowd as
Prince Lea did after his Caul-
field Guineas win last Satur-
day. Few of those who
applauded the colt had backed
him—they were elated that a
Victorian entry, against all
expectations, had beaten the
cracks from Sydney and
Adelaide.
It is a long time since any
race apart from the Cups has
created such tremendous
interest in Melbourne. The
colorful grey Martello Towers
had an entourage like a film-
star, and the other Sydney
youngster, . Noholme, was
almost as closely inspected. In
the saddling-paddock Martello
Towers looked in perfect nick,
and as he did his preliminary
his daisy-cutting action brought
murmurs of admiration. How-
ever, those knowing gentlemen
the bookmakers had formed
the opinion that the grey was
a “good risk,” and opened him
at 5 to 2. Sydney punters fell
over each other to accept that
quote, and at the start Martello
Towers was a warm 6 to 4,
Noholme at 7 to 4, and only
Mardene of the rest seriously
backed.
In the event, Martello
Towers fought hard for the
lead to the turn, but he could
not break away from Mardene,
and on the turn both were
beaten. There, it looked like
Noholme, and when the Star
Kingdom colt shot clear a
furlong from home the race
seemed won. The crowd gasped
with surprise as Prince Lea,
rated a weak reed beyond six
furlongs, finished with great
courage to snatch the verdict on
the line. Goglio and Mardene,
the South Australian colts, ran
honest races to finish third and
fourth, Martello Towers next.
Peter Lawson was downcast at
the grey’s performance, and
scratched him from the Caul-
field Cup before he had cooled-
down.
Prince Lea—a colt b'y Pride of
Kildare from Gold Spi, owned by
T. G. Logan and trained by Basil
Conaghan—had only once before
started in a race beyond six fur-
longs ; that was in the seven-
furlongs Liston Stakes, and he
found the distance beyond him.
Credit for the colt’s win goes to
Bill Williamson, who sat his mount
in behind the pacemakers, and
judged his finishing effort to the
last breath. Prince Lea will now
be tried over the 10 furlongs of
the rich W. S. Cox Plate at the
Valley on Saturday week.
There was not a more
impressive Cups sun at Caul-
field than Mac’s win in the
mile-and-a-half Herbert Power
Handicap. Carrying 9.2
(against his Cups weights 8.9
at Caulfield and 8.7 at Fleming-
ton), the five-year-old Mac-
Arthur gelding made hacks of
the opposition to canter home
in the very smart time of
2.29 7/10.
Just over a year ago Mac was a
maiden, but since then he has won
nine times, with his Adelaide Cup
win last autumn and his good fifth
in the Melbourne Cup last year as
proof that two miles won’t worry
him. Nether Gold’s second to Mac
was in line with the aged gelding’s
consistent form. He carried 8.9 and
drops to 7.10. He is only an
ordinary galloper, but this year’s
Caulfield Cup field will not be up
to average.
Occasionally the Toorak
Handicap has given a lead to
the Caulfield Cup, Grey Boots
and Royal Gem being two who
have completed the double in
post-war years. Smokey Jane,
who snatched the Toorak in
the last stride on Saturday, has
been very consistent, with four
wins from her last six starts.
She is well weighted with only
7.5, and as long ago as Sep-
tember 2 last this page sug-
gested she would have a real
Caulfield Cup chance.
Smokey Jane is owned by two
American engineers, C. A. Baker
and C. B'. Barns (who were in
Australia to work on the Snowy
River Scheme), in partnership with
trainer Joe Mulcahy. Barns is now
in Pakistan, Baker in America.
There was a rather extra-
ordinary twist to the Debutante
Stakes for fillies at Caulfield,
and to its companion race, the
Debutant Stakes for colts and
geldings. The races were won
by Limousine and Milverton,
who had both been successful
in the opening events of the
two-year-old season the pre-
vious week. The quirk was not
in the double success of these
youngsters early two-year-
olds are usually consistent—
but in the prices bet against
them. Limousine started at
9 to 1, which seems a strange
price for a filly who had won
so well at Flemington, and
Milverton, who had been 2 to
1 on for his first win, was at
5 to 4 against for his second.
Both Limousine and Milverton
are raced by V.R.C. committeemen.
E. A. Underwood, who imported
Limousine’s sire, Landau, races the
filly, and recently-elected committee-
man A. R. Creswick owns Milver-
ton, who is by Sweet William.
Sweet Wendy, by the same sire,
finished extremely well to run third
to Limousine, and will win soon
over a bit further than the four
furlongs of Saturday’s race.
* * *
A.J.C.
At the holiday meeting in
the A.J.C.’s Spring Carnival
the Metropolitan was a
triumph for horses bred in
New Zealand, Macdougal
(33 to 1) defeating Royal
Jester (10 to 1) and Foxmara


start the day right!
r.
' * w ~
t‘s§£
(5 to 1). The race was run in
a fairly heavy shower. It was
Melbourne jockey Ron Hut-
chinson’s first success in the
Metrop., though he has won
numerous Cups all round Aus-
tralia (about 60), some of them
more than once. Macdougal’s
Victorian mission will be the
Melbourne Cup,
• • • •
S.T.C. chairman Bill Long-
worth paid 2100gns. for
Wenona Girl as a yearling and
was at Randwick to see her
win, at first start, the A.J.C.
Gimcrack Stakes, worth about
£lOOO to the winner. The filly
had easily won barrier-trials at
Randwick and at Rosebery,
and, though she ran greenly,
she had a lot in hand at the
finish, and really is good. She
is N.S.W.-bred, by the new
sire Wilkes (imp.). Golden
Chariot, dam of Wenona Girl,
is by Golden Sovereign (imp.)
from Speed by Marconigram
(imp.). Carrus, a winner on the
opening day of the A.J.C.
spring carnival, also is from
Golden Chariot.
Though My Rachael had
finished fourth to the speedy
Wenona Girl in the Gimcrack
Stakes she was an outsider for
her Widden Stakes win last
Saturday, final day of the
A.J.C.’s Spring Carnival. It
was a blanket-finish, My
Rachael landing the money by
half-a-head from favorite
Delnita, with Fun And Fancy
a nose away third. Fun . And
Fancy looked a good thing
beaten. Still, My Rachael came
from the rear of the field, and
her win was full of merit.
Fun And Fancy is a sister to
Fine And Dandy. My Rachael
is a daughter of Rock and
Rye (imp.) and Shining Lady,
and cost owner Sam McGuire
550gns. as a yearling. Joe
Cook trains the filly, who
comes from the family which
produced that grand mare
Tranquil Star. Shining Lady is
by Le Grand Due (Fr.) from
Heyday by Double Remove
(imp.).
Polo Prince finished a long
last in the Craven Plate, but,
as there were four prizes, his
owners received £5O. Travel
Boy, an easy winner, now looks
a strong contender for the Vic-
“Obviously a new species."
toria Derby and Melbourne
Cup. This time, though,
Martello Towers wasn’t in his
way. Ray Selkrig, who had
not previously ridden Travel
Boy, took him to the front
soon after the start on trainer
T. J. Smith’s instructions, and
the rest was easy. Travel Boy
has 7.7 in the Melbourne Cup,
lib. over w.f.a.
Hydrell, a two-year-old by
Hydrogen (who won at from
six to 16 furlongs and earned
£59,429 in* stakes), won the
Canonbury Stakes in the smart
time of 60 7/10 for the five
furlongs. He appeared a little
lucky to beat Persian Lyric,
who ran about a lot in the final
stages. Hydrogen’s progeny
have been foaled in Victoria,
and Hydrell is the first living
foal of his dam, Bella Yorker,
who’s by New Yorker from
Belladonna by Beau Fils (imp.)
from Malonna by Rizzio.
Randwick trainer Fred All-
sop started Port Of Call and
New Vista in the Canonbury
Stakes for two-year-old colts
and geldings, and, though
neither won, New Vista
finished ahead of his stable-
mate, who’d been backed from
12’s to 7 to 2. New Vista came
from third-last to gain a place,
and on that display should soon
win. He looks a smart colt,
and is by Port Vista (imp.),
sire of many smart sprinters,
from Miss Osborne by Scor-
pion (imp.).
• • • #
Nyngan, who has now won
at two of his last three starts,
hasn’t done much racing,
which should be in his favor
when he returns from a spell;
he could be one of the autumn
headliners. In his two wins—
at Warwick Farm and in the
Clibborn Stakes at Randwick
—he came from the rear of the
field and won with a lot in
hand. The colt shows definite
staying promise. He’s by
Osborne (imp.) from Lone
Victress.
Royal Feast, winner of eight
races on Sydney tracks, was
much too solid for his seven
opponents in the Chester
Handicap. J. Thompson rode
confidently, and had the oppo-
sition beaten in the final
furlong. Seal Keeper ran an
improving race, and his
winning turn seems close.
Woolsack ran much below ex-
pectations for a 7-to-4 favorite.
The T. J. Smith stable, out
of luck on the earlier days of
the Spring Carnival landed
three of the seven races on the
final day—with Travel Boy,
Irish Folly and Carib. Irish
Folly just pipped outsider
Autumn Amber, but Carib had
an easy task.
The old familiar “Did y’ go
to sleep?” had a sort of literal
meaning at Randwick on
Saturday. Youngster named
Pearson, ready to weigh-out on
Grenoble for the Final Handi-
cap, dozed-off instead of walk-
ing to the scales, and was
“reprimanded” by the stewards.
Shouldn’t they have given him
a prize for a kind of useful
cool calmness that apprentice
boys rarely have?
* * *
The Trots
At Harold Park on Friday
night five-year-old Correlate,
the youngest horse in the race,
ran away with the £lOOO Fly-
ing, first feature-race of the
£23,000 Anniversary Qarnival.
Starting from scratch in a
field of the best pacers in train-
ing, Correlate had the run of
the race in third possie to about
three furlongs from home, but
had to be eased back, and then
run four horses wide rounding
the home-turn. With a power-
ful burst he won by nearly a
length from Field Dixie, with
First Kiss a close third. Gor-
relate’s time, 2min. 34? sec.,
was a record for the course.
Another record was made by
Jenny in the Trotters’ Handi-
cap, beating her own record
for the 13fur. and 98yds.
journey by sysec. Starting
from 48yds. behind, and only
seventh at the bell, Jenny
finished strongly to beat Master
Mercer and Single Raider —
head, head. Making it seven
straight wins, Yonkers con-
vincingly won the third heat
of the Birthday Handicap.
His time, 3.9 f, was easily the
best of the three heats. He
looks like starting a hot
favorite in the final on
October 24.
* ♦ $
Other Sports
In Sydney’s G.P.S. cham-
pionships Jim Stuart, of
“Shore,” bagged the Open
treble, 100yds., 220yds. and
440yds. John Antill, of
Grammar, topped 6ft. in
the high-jump, beating a record
that had stood for over 20
years.
* * *
Fifteen-year-old Don Laing,
of Brisbane Grammar School,
held 10,000 spectators watch-
ing him at the Queensland
G.P.S. athletics in Brisbane.
All events were over, but Laing,
who had won the under-16
high-jump with sft. 7in., went
on to break the previous record
of sft. BJm. by achieving the
great height (for his age) of
sft. lOfin. He’s being coached
by Dr. Cyril Wilkinson,
“Chilla” Porter’s mentor.
* * *
There should be some great
golf on view at Royal Mel-
bourne from November 18 to
November 21, a total of 30
teams having accepted invita-
tions to play in the Canada
Cup and International Trophy


mr.l
W:
v*>r
ry»' s
si§
&&3S£
I
•; r
belCs
scoj^"
the Celebration Scotch
Bell's gives great pleasure to those who know
Scotch Whisky well. Try this grand Scotch.
Savour its smooth elusive flavour. Enjoy the
magic subtlety that only the rare, the very
best Whiskies can achieve, and you will
know why so many people count it high
among their pleasures.
100% Scotch Whiskies Distilled and Blended in Scotland
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland. Established
Golf Championships jointly
sponsored by Ampol and the
International Golf Association.
The line-up is to include Sam
Snead (American record
money-winner) and his team-
mate Dr. Cary Middlecoff;
Gary Player (South Africa,
current British Open cham-
pion) ; Peter Thomson (Aus-
tralia, four times British Open
champion and current N.Z.
Open champion); Kel Nagle
(current Australian Open
champion and Australian pro-
fessional champion); Harry
Bradshaw and Christy
O’Connor (Ireland, present
holders of the Canada Cup);
Angel Miguel (Spain, present
holder of the International
Trophy); and Flory Van
Donck, one of the most
brilliant golfers in Europe.
The Canada Cup is a two-
man teams-match (72 holes);
the Individual Trophy goes to
the player who returns the best
score over 72 holes. Qantas
will fly the 58 overseas cham-
pions to Australia from various
pick-up points throughout the
world.
“Golfer”: Most people
know Danny Kaye as a
wonderful humorist —few know
how good he is at golf. Kaye
cut short his Australian tour
because he had promised to
be home in time to take part
in a tournament that is dedi-
cated to him. Danny is a
member of the plush Taminent
Club, in the well-wooded
country just outside Pennsyl-
vania. He got his entertain-
ment start on the stage there,
and now the club honors him
by staging ari annual Danny
Kaye tournament in which
amateurs team with profes-
sionals. Replicas of a special
Kaye trophy go to members of
the winning team.
* * *
“Mitron” (Brisbane): A 90-
minute non-stop player in
Australian and Queensland
Soccer teams, Brian Vogler
displays similar vigor as a
cricketer. Playing A-grade for
Brothers against East Ipswich
he scored 146 not-out in 173
minutes, including 25 fours
and three sixes.
* * *
“Tennisite”: Over the years
Australia has produced match-
less doubles teams —Crawford-
Quist, Bromwich-Quist, Sedg-
man-McGregor, Hoad-Rose-
wall, and now Fraser-Emerson.
A remarkable feature about
these teams has been the
marked contrast in the person-
alities of the players in most
of them. Crawford was placid,
Quist “cheeky,” almost arro-
gant-like in his ways on the
court; Bromwich was highly-
strung and tensed in play;
Rosewall was poker-faced and
unsmiling in his deadly earnest-
ness, Hoad almost casual.
Sedgman and McGregor, a
“tailor-made” team, were
pleasant and calm anytime.
Now we have Fraser, a worrier,
and Emerson, nervy, making a
winning team.
* * *
Team to play for Cringila
Cricket Club’s under-14 squad
in the opening round of the
Illawarra (N.S.W.) competi-
tion was selected from lads
representative of seven nation-
alities.
* * *
Years of representing N.S.W.
in the Australian Fencing
Championships brought Miss
Kathie Baxter due reward in
the 1959 titles —winning the
women’s foils event in Mel-
bourne. The other individual
events were won by established
fencers: men’s foils, Ivan
Lund (N.S.W.); men’s epee,
Mike Sichel (Q.); men’s sabre,
Dr. Martonffy (Vic.). Trials
towards" selection of Australia’s
fencing-team for the 1960
Olympics will be staged in
Sydney early in the New Year.
* * *
The Lions were the highest-
scoring British Rugby Union
team in a major tour to date.
They won 25 of the 31 matches
played in Australia and N.Z.,
scoring 756 points. Tally
included 147 tries, 45 penalty-
goals, 6 field-goals, 81 con-
versions.
* * *
Porter (“Chilla”), second in
the 1956 Olympic Games high-
jump, is having back-trouble ;
he’s been advised not to try
to jump for at least two
months. He suffered that sort
of damage last year, and it
has persisted every time he
has attempted to jump in train-
ing. The injury is reckoned to
have been aggravated through
trying to adjust his style along
the lines followed by Russian
jumpers, which he finds places
more strain on his back than
his previous technique. Athletic
officials aren’t happy about
Porter's condition.
* * *
Team of Old-'uns
“Ebor”: A recent mention
here of Wilfred Rhodes re-
calls that when he played in
his last Test series he was a
member of what must have
been one of the most elderly
cricket-teams ever to go overseas.
Average age of the team (M.C.C.
to West Indies, 1929-30) was
around 35. Rhodes himself was
52, George Gunn was 50 and six
of the team were hovering around
the 40-mark —Nigel Haig (42),
W. E. Astill (41), “Patsy” Hendren
(40), Andy Sandham (39), R. T.
Stanyforth (37) and the captain,
Hon. F. S. G. Calthorpe (37).
Nevertheless it was mostly the
old hands who enjoyed themselves
during a high-scoring season. Gunn
shared a couple of big opening
stands with Sandham, including
one of 322 against Jamaica, while
at Kingston Sandham hit-up 325 —
the first-ever Test triple-century.
Hendren also failed to endear him-
self to the bowling fraternity, and
his tour total of 1765 runs remains
to this day the record aggregate
for a West Indian season.
Another near-veteran who did
well was West Indian timndler O. C.
Scott. In England’s scores of 849
and 9-272 at Kingston, Scott took
5-266 and 4-108, which, if not a
record outlay by a b’Owler in a
single Test-match, must have at
least supplied him with some exceF
lent material for reminiscence in his
declining years.
* * *
Records to Note
Keep this list as a guide to
comparison for the Olympic
Games when watching current
performances of Australian
athletes. The list gives the world’s
best performances overseas this
year, and will help in assessing the
chances of Australians now enter-
ing the season through which they
will gain selection. Americans have
the best atheletes in the short track-
events and in five of the field-events.
The list, compiled on this year’s
performances overseas, is: 100
metres, lO.lsec. (equals world record),
R. Norton (U.S.A.); 200 metres
(turn), 20.6 sec. (world record),
R. Norton; 400 metres, 45.95ec.,
C. Larrabee (U.S.A.); 800 metres,
lmin. 47.65ec., S. Valentin (Ger-
many); 1500 metres, 3min. 39.35ec.,
S. Valentin; 5000 metres, 13min.
46.85ec., F. Janke (Germany);
10,000 metres, 29min. 3sec., P.
Bolotnikov (U.S.S.R.); 110 metres
hurdles, 13.2 sec. (world record),
M. Lauer (Germany); 400 metres
hurdles, 50.15ec., C. Potgeiter
(South Africa); steeplechase, Bmm.
37.85ec., S. Ranishchin (U.S.S.R.);
high-jump, 7ft., C. Dumas (U.S.),
R. Shavladazke (U.S.S.R.); long-
jump, 26ft. 7in., C. Bell (U.S.),
J. Graham (U.S.), A. Dooley (U.S.),
D. Bragg (U.S.); hop, step and
jump, 54ft. 9}in. (world record),
O. Fedoseyev (U.S.S.R.); shot-put,
63ft. 4in. (world record), P.
O'Brien (U.S.); discus, 196 ft. 6|in.
(world record), E. Platkowski
(Poland); javelin, 282 ft. 3)in.
(world record), A. Cantello (U.S.);
hammer, 222 ft. Bin. (world record),
H. Connolly (U.S.).
Thfc only Australians rated as
having a chance to win a medal
are Herb Elliott, . Victoria (1500
metres); Albert Thomas, N.S.W.
(5000 metres); and Bob Vagg,
N. (10,000 metres).


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
DISARMAMENT
Come press thoughts on the
Khrushchev disarmament
proposals:
Manchester “Guardian” :
“He has made five concrete,
short-term proposals: the
creation of a control-and-in-
spection zone in Europe ; the
creation of an atom-free zone
in Central Europe ; the witir-
drawal of foreign troops from
Europe ; a non-aggression pact
between Nato and the Warsaw
Pact countries ; and agreement
on the prevention of surprise
attacks.
“These cannot all be
accepted as they stand. But it
might be possible to define
them in negotiation to some-
thing not very different from
the various disengagement-
plans that have been put for-
ward in the West. Together
with an agreement on nuclear
tests —and possibly on stopping
the spread of weapons this
might create a climate of trust
in international affairs. And
trust is the beginning of dis-
armament.”
* * *
Hanson W. Baldwin, in “New
York Times” : “The first and
most important obstacle is that
arms are an effect, not the
cause, of the world's tensions.
Unresolved political conflicts
involving the vital interests of
opposing nations stimulate
arms-races. Mr. Khrushchev
said nothing about the resolu-
tion of such problems as Berlin
and Germany.
“From the practical point of
view, therefore, Mr. Khrush-
chev’s speech, intransigent
politically, attacked the sym-
toms rather than the disease.”
* * *
London “Observer” : “If
nothing will persuade Mr.
Khrushchev to accept control
and inspection of Russia in the
early stages it may be necessary
to begin with countries other
than Russia and the United
States. The British Govern-
ment has an opportunity to
.help by offering to accept
measures of control and in-
spection which are not at first
universal. It should also insist
—a point which is included in
the British plan but not in the
Russian plan—-that even total
disarmament would not
guarantee peace without an
international police-force.”
* * 5?
Walter Lippmann, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune” : “An exami-
nation of his [Khrushchev’s]
five measures for partial dis-
armament shows, I think, that
they have a common charac-
teristic. With one exception
dealing with ‘surprise attack,’
his proposals do not depend in
any difficult degree on inspec-
tion. They would be com-
paratively easy to inspect and
control without any penetra-
tion of the Soviet Union itself.
For they apply to Continental
Europe outside the Soviet
Union. In all this territory,
even east of the Iron Curtain,
our secret intelligence is good
enough to audit a modest
amount of official inspection.”
* * *
London “Sunday Times ” :
“On the surface all the signs
are that the proposal is just a
grandiose propaganda - stunt.
Within four years all nations
should abolish all their armed
forces and weapons, except for
police militia with small-arms.
This means not only Russia
and the United States, Nato
and Warsaw Pact countries,
but China, Laos, India, Egypt,
Israel, Cuba, every country in
the world ; for who is going
to disarm and leave the way
open to his neighbor?
“And if B is A’s neighbor,
C is B’s, and so on round the
whole maze. Would the
Western nations abandon
Israel to the mercies of a still-
armed Arab camp, or South-
east Asia to those of a still-
armed China? Would Russia
really leave East Germany and
the satellites without armed
forces even if the Federal
Republic and Western Europe
had none? Would India, even
if Pakistan disarmed, regard
Kashmir as safe with only a
local militia? One has but to
ask such questions to see that
even as an ideal Mr. Khrush-
chev’s proposition is so remote
that it has no present impact.”
* ■* *
Joseph Alsop, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune” : “Therefore,
it is not necessary to analyse
—A “Just So Story ” from London “Daily Mail.”
“MY LOVING FRIENDS! IF ONLY YOU’LL GIVE-UP YOUR CRUEL TUSKS,
TALONS, TEETH AND CLAWS, I’LL HUG YOU ALL!”
the transparent fakery of
Khrushchev’s remarks on in-
ternational control of dis-
armament. It is a waste of time
to explore the other implica-
tions of the programme
Khrushchev presented to the
U.N. It is only necessary to
look at Khrushchev’s own situ-
ation. Far more than Winston
Churchill, Khrushchev has not
become the Head of State ‘to
preside, over the liquidation of
the empire.’ Since his U.N.
programme plainly involves the
automatic abandonment of
much of the Soviet empire, it
is a grinning fraud.”
* * «
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “It
may have been injudicious of
Mr. Khrushchev, though he
was provoked, to say: ‘The
question is whether there will
be peace or war between our
two nations,’ but that at least
puts his visit into perspective.
He told Americans that he was
the first head of either Russia
or the Soviet Union to have
visited the United States in all
their history. Would he have
gone there for nothing? Is it
not conceivable that in his
appeal for disarmament there
is at least something genuine?
Let his appeal be examined and
tested, not rejected out of
hand.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post” : “On the
strength of this profession of
concern to end the menace, he
[Khrushchev] should be invited
to lend his support to the
fresh efforts which the British
Foreign Secretary proposes
within the new Ten-Power dis-
armament group which is to
start work shortly in Geneva.
He should be made to see that
the Western Powers are in
deadly earnest over this ques-
tion of controlled disarmament
and that, if he is sincere in his
wish to rid mankind of the
horrors now overhanging the
world, he will find genuine co-
operation from the Western
side.
“If, as some suspect, his
whole speech is a hypocritical
attempt to exploit the fears of
ordinary people everywhere for
Communism's gain, then the
kind of response Mr. Selwyn
Lloyd suggests will prove the
most effective way of exposing
its humbug.”
* * #
London “Spectator ” ; “A
disarmament proposal of the


Come try HOLDEN!
FROM
£BB5
PLUS TAX
J
m
mm
mm
Get the most for your money
in motoring pleasure . . .
Change to Holden and enjoy a
wonderful difference in motoring
pleasure. Holden gives the most
for your money . . . most per-
formance, most space, most driving
ease, most style in fact most of
all the things you and your family
want. Contact your Holden Dealer
. . . Come try Holden today!
Come try Holden performance.
Get behind the wheel and start off.
At once you’ll notice the smooth,
powerful pick-up of the 6-cylinder
Holden engine. Take a curve
fast and Holden’s wide track
and long wheelbase give you
complete stability.
Come try Holden driving ease.
Slip into a tight parking space.
See how much easier it is with
Holden’s re-circulating ball steer-
ing. Drive on again and note
how effortless gear changing is
how seldom you need to do it.
See how Holden’s big safety glass
area gives you all round visibility.
Come try Holden style. Stop
Holden outside your home and get
the family to admire the flowing
linfes. Then open the doors and
see the luxurious interior.
Come try Holden space. Move the
front seat right back. Then get
into the rear seat. There’s still
plenty of room for your legs.
Look how wide the seats are . . .
Holden carries six big people in
comfort. And the boot holds six
people’s luggage.
Amazing economy! Holden’s low
petrol consumption, rugged de-
pendability and low cost parts
will save you running and repair
expenses. High resale value pro-
tects your investment. Unequalled
after-sales service, available from
600 dealers, saves you time,
trouble and money.
Come see the Holden* Spring
Carnival! See the glamorous dis-
play of Holden Sedans . . . gay
new colour styling
new interior trims at
your Holden Dealer
now.
: REGD.
r\
Australia’s Own Car the greatest buy of them all
, Convenient GMAC Hire Purchase is available.
See your Holden Dealer today.
KII9
kind Mr. Khrushchev has put
forward is nicely calculated to
make Western politicians un-
easy and leave Western citizens
puzzled. Is it sincere? And,
even if it is, is there the least
prospect of anything coming
of it? ‘Sincerity’ is not a term,
after all, which has much
meaning when applied to
statesmen. Most of them mean
what they say at the time they
say it —as there is no reason
to doubt that Mr. Khrushchev
does. But there is even less
reason to doubt that he will
go back on his proposal as soon
as it suits him to do so, with
a variety of puerile justifica-
tions.
“The West, consequently,
has to make-up its mind how
it is going to proceed with
disarmament plans without
placing much reliance on any-
thing that Mr. Khrushchev
says. This may sound ridicu-
lous : how can one side make
plans for disarmament unless
there is some measure of trust
in the other? But Russia is no
longer ‘the other,’ in the sense
she was for so many years.
Apart from the possibility that
China may eventually be a
more dangerous enemy, there
is the pressing problem of how
to restrain nuclear rearmament
among friends. Every new
nuclear weapon added to the
pile, every fresh nation possess-
ing or trying to manufacture,
the bomb, constitutes a new
threat: and of this Mr. Khrush-
chev must be just as aware as
we are.”
Far East Metaphors
a U.S. politician
” described statements on
Laos and India coming lately
from Hanoi, Peking and
Moscow as “orchestrated pro-
paganda,” the “New York
Times” noted’that “the whole
story is told, to those who
have sensitive ears, in those
words” :
“An orchestra is the balance
and the synthesis of various
musical instruments and choirs
to get a combined effect. In
the Far East symphony the
parts are obvious enough.
Always in the background is
the deep rumble of the tympani
of the Kremlin, with an occas-
ional boom of the tuba when
Mr. Khrushchev decides to let
out a ‘cosmic’ note. Peking
usually carries the main theme
with a strident voice of trum-
pets. Now Hanoi joins-in with
a shrieking piccolo or a whin-
ing oboe.
“Then we get the soft voice
of the ’cello and the lure of the
other strings as all join in sing-
ing of peace and understand-
ing. If Ghou En-lai happens to
lead it into a minor key when
he gets cross with Prime
Minister Nehru over Indian
‘aggression’ against Red China,
that is simply a variation on
the main theme by way of
contrast. The ‘orchestration'
continues.
“There is still quite a bit
of discussion as to who wrote
the original score and who
is now standing on the podium
conducting. There is even the
suggestion that not all the
choirs have been tuned together
and that the unison and har-
mony are slightly lacking in
some respects. The first ques-
tion is academic. The com-
poser was probably Lenin. The
present conductor is ‘anony-
mous.’ The second question
is carping criticism of a robust
performance.
“What we, in the audience,
have to realise is that it is pre-
cisely that, a performance.
'What emanates from these pro-
paganda centres has no neces-
sary organic relationship to the
truth in any form. It is de-
signed to create an effect. The
immediate purpose may be to
conceal, to obscure, to distort,
to confuse, to alarm or to
inflame. There is enough
evidence that it can be success-
ful to make us wary.
“We can also realise that
the coincidence of these various
‘tensions’ is too pat to be acci-
dental. It is all part of the


F*dlli
:
:
A
These surpassing performances in the race
towards outer space are all very wonderful. But
I believe that, were we to allow them, they could
distort our sense of practical values.
Which, for instance, is the more important to
human living on this earth —that a rocket should
land on the moon, or that man should master the
technique for a wholesale turning of the sea’s
water into fresh?
My personal preference would be for a wedding
of the sea to land, in a fast-populating world
where more than one-third of the total land
surface is arid.
Men may alight eventually on the moon. They
will still have to live in their thousands of
millions from the food that is grown in Earth’s
waterecj soil.
Several countries —Australia among them—
are contributing to the mounting knowledge on
sea-water’s conversion. The Americans are building
an atomic-powered test plant designed to convert
at the rate of more than one million gallons a day,
using the “flash distillation” method.
An international conference held at Algiers
recently carried further the specialised studies on
demineralisation by the electrodialytic process. As
distinct from distilling, this aims at a scientific
break-down of the water’s salt.
The time is nearer when an economic formula
for the desalting of sea-water in huge volume will
be available to the nations; and its chaining to
atomic power for long conduit pumping will take
limitless water to any interior.
The transformation this will bring to inland
Australia is past imagining. But the vision of it
should not cause us to lessen our effort in the
controlling of rivers and the conserving of rain.
There can never be too much water in a country
so deep that it holds two hundred and forty-four
square miles of territory to every mile of
its coastline.
Here, then, is something that will gild the
future for all mankind. And with its approaching,
we can say 'more literally than ever before that
Australia is only at the fringe of its greatness.
score. It has been ‘orches-
trated.’ ”
Working on the same sub-
ject in a different metaphor,
the Manchester “Guardian”
notes that “the Chinese
Government seems to find it
convenient to have these dis-
putes in the refrigerator ; they
can be taken out, warmed-up,
and served in a variety of ways
for a variety of purposes.
“Opponents are kept in sus-
pense (those in Formosa have
been prophesying almost
weekly since the beginning of
the year that another major
onslaught on Quemoy and
Matsu is imminent); nerves
can be set on edge again when
world tension shows signs of
relaxing to the detriment of
the Chinese Government; the
Chinese people can be given
changes of excitement.
“With Marshal Chiang Kai-
shek and the United States
there is always a quarrel to
hand ; with Britain impro-
visations have hitherto sufficed
(as at the time of Suez and the
landings in Jordan), but Hong
Kong is always there if some-
thing stronger should be
needed.
“And who can be sure that
a crisis involving India will not
prove useful? Now the dish
has been prepared, even though
not much may be eaten just
now. If this is indeed the
attitude of the Chinese Govern-
ment, then Mr. Nehru’s
reaction is the right one —to
take one’s stand on what
appears to be a just position,
to make clear that one will not
be shifted from it, but to,
remain conciliatory in language
and above all not to get over-
excited.”
Language Pitfalls
Tn a letter to London “Daily
A Telegraph,” David Floyd
wonders “how much of the
heat generated on both sides
during Mr. Khrushchev’s en-
counter with the Americans
was due to misunderstanding.
“After all, everything that
was said had to pass through
an interpreter, and no inter-
preter is perfect as anyone
who has performed that thank-
less task will agree.
“I am not suggesting that
Mr. Troyanovsky is anything
but one of the best men in the
business, or that he would con-
sciously misinterpret any of the
words that pass through his
brain. But he is only human.
“In some cases he seems to
have tried to soften the mutual
blows. When Mr. Khrushchev
was asked about ‘Russian
armed intervention in Hun-
gary, Mr. Troyanovsky diluted
it to ‘Russian interference
in Hungary’s affairs.’
“In his reply to this question
Mr. Khrushchev said: ‘I can
toss more than one dead cat
your way, even fresher, you
know, than the question about
Hungary.’ But Mr. Troyanov-
sky limited himself to saying
that Mr. Khrushchev ‘could
think of quite a few questions
of a similar character.’
“No one will quarrel with
the interpreter’s censorship
here. But it may not always be
for the best. How can a mere
interpreter convey the idea
that a question that seems
in literal translation to be
heavily loaded is really well
meant and in the best Parlia-
mentary manner?
“How can he persuade his
master that a reply that may
be the essence of dignity and
discretion in the Communist.
Party Central Committee cr
the Supreme Soviet may appear
crude and tactless to a Con-
gressman?
“It is not easy to bridge the
gap between peoples, and
especially between the Slavs
and the Anglo-Saxons. Lan-
guage is only one of the
barriers, but it is the one that
will remain when all the others
have been removed. Indeed,
in following the exchanges in
America, I am forced to
wonder whether personal con-
tacts between the great of this
world are of such benefit after
all.”
On the same subject, but in
lighter vein, London “New
Statesman” columnist “Critic”
notes that “there are plenty of
other examples of Russian-
English linguistic difficulties”:
“In 1921 the Russian
colony in Vienna wanted to
thank Mr. Hoover for Ameri-
can aid. The last sentence of
an elaborate letter of thanks,
written on vellum, ended, I’m
told: ‘We thank you from the
very bottoms of our hearts for
all your fidgetings on behalf of
our unfortunate starving
country.’
“A more recent misunder-
standing has just reached me
from Moscow. The other day
a party of Americans were
being shown over one of the
Kremlin museums which con-
tained an exhibition of ancient
Russian ikons. Pointing to a
fine painting of Jesus entering
Jerusalem, the curator said it
was a picture of Christ on his
ass.
“There was an indignant
scream from one of the


Missing Friend
ESTATE OF ERNEST EDWARD
O’NEALE
WOULD CHRISTOPHER EDWARD
O’NEALE, formerly of Featherston, New
Zealand, or any person knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate- with
the District Manager, PUBLIC TRUST
OFFICE, Fielding, New Zealand?
No matter
how much
or
M-K-2
P vn.
£
COLCHISONE
will bring you the relief
you seek from
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT and swollen
or inflamed joints
It is economical, guaranteed harmless,
and thoroughly reliable in even the
most obstinate cases
COLCHISONE
• X •
From your
chemist
q(| / LARGE
*«/* ECONOMY
1T /C SMALL
I l/D SIZE 4
including valu-
able food chart
If you have any
difficulty in ob-
taming supplies
write to the Sole
Australian Dis-
tributors
*,j. /
mmm
»?.. i
s
i ■ •• >Y<J
t. J** <♦><♦* v >
! ♦*»<**<■>*
*. «OOT
ft HEU MAT!S^
Sr SATiCA.
HftßOSiTis
* w °U;gN
.lOiAffS
, s ,,<sour j
! Vomat*#
i -’CIATiCA
!»*.»
V*
eu *««C*
Charles Agencies (Aust). 230 Commonwealth St. Sydney
American women. ‘I knew it!’
she shouted. ‘You are a lot
of blasphemers, and I won’t
stand for it. Nobody shall
make fun of Our Lord in my
presence.’ And in spite of
efforts to explain the misunder-
standing, she picked-up her
goods and chattels and stamped
indignantly out of the build-
ing.”
Dragnet Digest
London "Observer” : “By
proclaiming the principle of
self-determination for Algeria,
including the choice of seces-
sion, President de Gaulle has
courageously provided an in-
telligible and honorable object-
ive for French policy. There
are still ambiguities in the
choices offered. It seems that
the Algerians' can gain true
independence only by sacrific-
ing some part of their country.
Autonomy on a federal basis
may mean a good deal less
than the self-government
already enjoyed by some of the
new States of the French
community. But self-determi-
nation by free universal
suffrage is at least an aim that
France’s allies can support
with a clear conscience.”
:3i. * * *
London “Financial Times’:
“That Mr. Khrushchev really
means business in the con-
sumer-goods sector of the
[Soviet] economy is shown by
the equipment he has been buy-
ing from the U.K. lately—
artificial - fibre - manufactur-
ing plant, for example—and
the fact that he is prepared to
allow £3.4m. of U.K. con-
sumer-goods into Russia. The
latter amount is admittedly
small, but indicates something
of a revolution in policy The
time may not be far off (if Mr.
Khrushchev continues to bring
home the consumer-goods)
when the Russian consumer-
goods industry—used to
making what it wants in a way
that it wants, and selling in an
outright sellers’ market—is con-
fronted with new realities of
life. The industry will have to
recognise that such a thing as
consumer preference exists, and
the introduction of h.-p. is an
indication that the problem is
not so far ahead.”
* * *
Walter Lippmann, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune’ : “The
critical weakness of our [U.S.]
society is that for the time
being our people do not have
great purposes which they are
united in wanting to achieve.
The public mood of the
country is defensive —to hold
on and to conserve, not to
push forward and to create.
We talk about ourselves these
days as if we were a completed
society, one which has achieved
its purposes, and has no further
great business to transact.
“The strength of the Soviet
regime, which accounts for its
hardness and its toughness and
also for its cruelty, is that it is
above all else a purposeful
society in which all the main
energies of the people are
directed and dedicated to its
purposes. This sense of pur-
pose accounts for the astound-
ing success of the regime in
science and in technology,
both civilian and military. The
Soviet nation has its energies
and its resources focused on
purposes which its rulers
define, and all else must make
way for the achievement of
these purposes.”
* * m
Lyndon H. Jones, in the
“Contemporary Review” :
“While political motivation can
never be wholly discounted in
Russia’s foreign [trade] deal-
ings, more has been read into
it than the evidence warrants.
As regards the future, the trend
appears to suggest that Soviet
trade-policy will be dominated
primarily by their desire to
outstrip the Americans in pro-
ductive power and standards of
living. Communism’s appeal to
underdeveloped pountries
would be much greater if this
were achieved than if aid were
given. Similarly, the more
powerful the Soviet economic
machine, the better fitted are
the Russians to inflict their
will upon the West. Faced,
then, with this challenge to
strengthen their internal eco-
nomy, the Communists are ill-
equipped to engage in trade-
wars. Rather, their objective
at this stage will remain the
securing of credits to enable
them to buy new capital-equip-
ment.”
* * *
Rtd. Admiral Felix B. Stump:
“I think we can safely predict
that, were Red China admitted
to the United Nations, it would
not be very long before the
United Nations would be as
defunct an organisation as the
old League of Nations.”


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
C lncorporated in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
next, and for days afterwards,
to talk about him. The
inquiries from newspapers and
magazines for biographical
details.
Bill had been pretty young
when Henry Lawson used to
come to the office, and,
although he had been the inter-
mediary between Henry and
editor S. H. Prior, and had
written-out the dockets for
Henry’s payments, he hadn’t
known him well: as he said,
he had “often regretted not
having known him better.”
But it was a manly, straight-
forward portrait of Henry, with
—as Hazel de Burg remarked —
a refreshing absence of that
preoccupation with personal
weaknesses which is charac-
teristic of much modern bio-
graphy. Bill acknowledged
them —-“And he had many” —
and left it at that.
A nd so had Bill his weak-
nesses —as he would be the
first to affirm. He would, I.
fancy, thoroughly dislike an
attempt to present him as any
sort of plaster-saint. But self-
pity wasn’t one of them; or
jealousy ; or any kind of mean-
ness —in fact, examples of his
generosity, told by one person
or another, sometimes border
on the fantastic. His faults
could be conveniently grouped
under the general heading
“good fellowship,” and left
there . . .
YA7ith her tape-recordings of
’ ’ the poets Hazel de Burg’s
method —and a very good one
it is—is for the poet or poetess
to introduce himself or herself,
then to say something about
how the poem came to be
written, though, of course, it
is not always possible to put
the fine threads of creation into
words.
There was the Judith
Wright recording. Judith
Wright introduced herself, and
explained that “Train Journey”
had been composed on a train-
jourrtey between Brisbane and
Armidale. Looking out the
window at a bright moonlight
night . . .
She read the poem, and
went on to say: “The next
poem, ‘Woman to Man,’ was
written” — and stopped. Then,
after a long pause: “A
number of years ago. And
it is generally thought to be
the most important poem I
have written.”
It is, anyway, a superb one.
Everyone, of course, has per-
sonal preferences, and it is no
use quarrelling with the poets’
own selection. Personally, I
should have liked to hear
Judith Wright’s “South of My
Days” along with “Woman to
Man” good as “Train
Journey” undoubtedly is.
Tn the tape-recorded poets’
-*■ remarks, and generally in
their readings, there was a
distinct gap in technique be-
tween the university people
(the professors and lecturers)
and the other poets. Natural
enough—lecturers have more
practice in speaking and read-
ing aloud.
Technically, it was impos-
sible to fault the reading of
any of these —A. D. Hope and
Tom Inglis Moore, from Can-
berra ; Vincent Buckley, from
Melbourne ; Geoffrey Dutton,
from Adelaide; Val Vallis,
from Queensland —but A. D.
Hope’s introduction was, per-
haps, the most entertaining-:
simple and direct, and telling
a story:
This is A. D. Hope. I am
going to read you a poem called
“Meditation on a Bone.” Now I
think I’d better say a few words
to explain what the poem's about.
Or, perhaps, how it began. I was
reading a book one day and I
came upon an account of the
digging-up of a number of Runic
inscriptions in Norway, Sweden
and Denmark. Now most of these
were things of historical interest,
but there is one of them, an
inscription cut in a piece of bone,
and probably then the little cracks
made in the bone with the knife
were filled with blood, and the
curse was put on it and the man
buried it in the ground.
Now why did he do this? The
inscriptions say, “I loved her when
she was a maiden. I will not
trouble Erwin’s detestable wife;
better she should be a widow.”
Well, I think that tells its own
story, doesn’t it? A young man
fell in love with a girl and she
married somebody else and he was
very unhappy. And he now sits
down to wait for the time when
she is a widow. Well, thinking
about this I wrote the following
poem:
Words scored upon a bone,
Scratched in despair or rage —
Nine-hundred. years have gone;
Now, in another age
They burn with passion on
A scholar’s tranquil page.
The scholar takes his pen
And turns the bone about,
And writes those words again.
Once more they seethe and shout,
And through a human brain
Undying hate rings out.
“I loved her when a maid:
I loathe and love the wife
That warms another’s bed:
Let him beware his life!”
The scholar’s hand is stayed;
His pen becomes a knife
To grave in living bone
The fierce archaic cry.
He sits and reads his own
Dull sum of misery.
A thousand years have flown
Before that ink is dry.
And, in a foreign tongue,
A man, who is not he,
Reads and his heart is wrung
This ancient grief to see,
And thinks: When I am dung,
What bone shall speak of me ?
A mong all these tape-record-
ings Dorothea McKellar
and Mary Gilmore are in a
class of their own. Or,
perhaps, two distinct and
admirable classes.
This collection of over 50
Australian poets really started
with a recording of Dorothea
McKellar’s “My Country” in
December, 1958.
Everyone who has heard it
agrees that it is a magnificent
example of the older school
of verse-reading. Hazel de
Burg admits weeping slightly
—“two big, fat tears” ; —when
it was done, and harder-boiled
listeners, to their surprise, were
considerably impressed. But
then, as lyirs. de Burg said,
“My Country” is something
special to most of us: “It has
tender associations with our
childhood —like your mother’s
dress —you don’t criticise it.”
It was written, Hazel de
Burg recalled, when Dorothea
McKellar was 19, for an Eng-
lish magazine: hence the
reiterated second-person.
Apropos of childhood—
Hazel de Burg {nee Holland)
was born at Deniliquin, lived
in such other N.S.W. towns
as Cessnock, Cobar, Orange
and Kempsey, and came to
Sydney to school, at M.L.C.,
Burwood.
At school, it occurred to
Miss Holland to write to John
Masefield, England’s Poet
Laureate, asking if he would
please oblige with a school
song. Masefield obliged, and
it is still the School Song. So
enterprise and an interest in
poetry went hand-in-hand
quite early in the piece . . .
At Bellevue Hill Mrs. de
Burg showed me a recent letter
from John Masefield. She-
had written again, reminding
him of the incident —which he
remembered and inviting
another contribution. Although
this is a collection of Austra-
lian poets, Mrs. de Burg thinks
it appropriate that there should
be some symbolic representa-
tion of English poetry:
“Because, whether we like it
or not, that’s where it came
from.”
On a similar symbolic plane,
but, so to speak, from the other
end, is a recording of Shirley
Fish, an aboriginal woman at
La Perouse (Sydney), beating
two sticks together.
“The first beat of poetry in
Australia,” the anthologist
explained. Because her collec-
tion is, of course, an anthology
of modern Australian poetry
—her own anthology—and a
pretty comprehensive one.
>A/f ary Gilmore on the
tape . . . No stealthy
emergence of personality here ;
it comes out and dominates
the room. (The room, in this
case, being Mrs. de Burg’s
dining-room.)
Here, just as it came from
the tape, is a part of her
reading of “Singing the
Knees”:
Be strong, be strong,
Little knees !
Strong is the bird,
The emu bird,
Be strong as the bird,
' Little knees . . .
“Oh, I forgot to tell you,
this is an emu ceremony.”
Another stanza ; then more
explanation: “That brother —
I had four—was the best
runner and the biggest leaper
in the district.”
/"\n another Wednesday
afternoon, armed with
notebook and pen, I presented
myself at Mrs. de Burg’s home,
determined, this time, to hear
the lot.
It was, I soon discovered,
impossible. Fifty-odd poets,
each reading two or three
pieces, take some absorbing.
With the sternest intentions,
one indulges preferences,
selects. Everyman his own
anthologist . . .
I listened again—because I
wanted to —to Slessor. Then,


QANT ASintroduces
"V
ART A
i ai■l i ■ e QAN T A S
mfwiifhfc
SYDNEY • FIJI • HONOLULU
SAN FRANCISCO • NEW YORK • LONDON
Hi
AUSTRALIA’S ROUND-THE-WORLD AIRLINE
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (Inc. in Qld.) in association with 8.0.A.C., TEAL &S.A.A. 934.63.79
for the same reason, to Judith
Wright’s “Woman to Man”:
The eyeless laborer in the night,
the selfless, shapeless seed I hold,
builds for it's resurrection day—
silent and swift and deep from sight
forsees the unimagined light.
This is no child with a child’s face;
this has no name to name it by;
yet you and I have served it well.
This is our hunter and our chase,
the third who lay in our embrace.
This is the strength that your arm
knows,
the arc of flesh that is my breast,
the precise crystals of our eyes.
This is the blood’s wild tree that
grows
the intricate and folded rose.
This is the maker and the made ;
this is the question and reply;
the blind head butting at the dark,
the blaze of light along the blade.
Oh, hold me, for l am afraid.
In lighter vein, Ronald
McCuaig’s “The Passionate
Clerk”:
Live with me; be my wife;
We’ll end flirtations;
You’ll find it a slow life,
But with compensations . . .
And the inevitable simplicity
of Douglas Stewart’s
“Glencoe”:
In daylight golden and mild
After ihe night of Glencoe
They found the hand of a child
Lying upon the snow . . ,
Both these poets were
recorded at The Bulletin,
Hazel de Burg told me —in
Jock Bruce’s relatively sound-
proof room, I learnt later.
And so was William Hart-
Smith, when he came over
from New Zealand. Hart-
Smith, as Douglas Stewart
pointed out in a recent “Red
Page” article, is a poet whose
verse is particularly worth
reading aloud. His verbs skip
and hop about the countryside,
flutter and swoop and soar in
the air . . .
On the tape Douglas Stewart
comes out strongly, and with
a strong Australian- accent.
Surprising, since he was born
and educated in New Zealand
and his ordinary conversational
voice—perhaps because he
speaks quietly—seems to have
the “neutral” accent of some
English voices ; at least, to my
native ear. But all sorts of
revealing things come out on
the tape. And, of course, he
has been here long enough,
soaked himself sufficiently in
Australian writing and idiom,
to be thoroughly corrupted:
what could be more Australian
than “Ned Kelly”?
“The first real encourage-
ment 1 had,” Hazel de Burg
said, referring to her collec-
tion, “came from Douglas
Stewart. He said to me, ‘This
is a good idea.’ When I rang
David Campbell, at Canberra,
and started to tell him what
I wanted, he said, ‘Oh, yps,
Douglas Stewart told me about
this.’ I was to hear those words
again and again.”
So, inevitably, there is a
strong Bulletin flavor
about the collection. But it
could hardly be otherwise, with
any representative selection of
Australian poetry.
But it would be wrong—in
fact, flatly opposed to the
whole idea to suggest that
this is a Bulletin anthology.
A. D. Hope, for instance, does
not write for The Bulletin.
And there are others —Elizabeth
Riddell, Chris Koch, John
Bray, Max Harris, John
Thompson, Flexmore Hudson,
Colin Thiele, John Quinn, and
the Hungarian-born, German-
speaking David Martin (now
living in Melbourne) —to name
those who come to mind—who
are not specifically Bulletin
poets; as, for instance, one
thinks of Fitz Gerald and
Campbell, Judith Wright and
Rosemary Dobson, as
Bulletin contributors.
Hazel de Burg has, in fact,
cast a very wide net.
Deliberately.
“We don’t know who are
our best poets,” she said,vwhen
I asked her about this. “That’s
for posterity to decide, not us.”
Question: There is no
limit?
Answer: Availability is the
limit.
It began with readings for
the blind. Reading Mary Gil-
more’s “Old Days, Old Ways,”
Hazel de Burg thought it would
be a good idea for Dame Mary
to add something personal to
the record, which she did.
Then, going to Brisbane, she
visited Judith Wright at Mount
Tambourine, and there were
more-or-less vague discussions
about recording poets. Some
were taken, and played to
John Thompson, of the A.8.C.,
who pointed out technical
deficiencies. So, last Decem-
ber, with new equipment, a
fresh start was made, with
Dorothea McKellar’s “My
Country.”
Getting the collection to-
gether has meant an immense
amount of work, and a fair
amount of expense. Early in
the piece, convinced of the
importance of what she was
doing, Mrs. de Burg looked
around for institutional finan-
cial backing, but couldn’t get
it. Time is a problem, too —
she runs a house, has three
school-children, and it has been
necessary to make inter-State
trips to get recordings of some
of the poets. Still, she thinks
it is worth while.
And now the A.B.C. is
taking-over her collection
(though she will keep the
originals) and disks will go
into the national archives at
Canberra.
Footnote: Since this was
written, Mrs. de Burg rang The
Bulletin to * say that she is
getting a recording of Bernard
O’Dowd, reading his own verse,
from Melbourne.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Gropius in Sydney
Walter Gropius, when he
visited Australia, gave as high
praise to the old houses of
Sydney as to those of Mel-
bourne so affectionately de-
scribed by the late M. G.
Skipper (B. 23/9/’59). He sur-
prised many Sydneysiders by
commending particularly the
despised terrace-house which
up to the end of the 19th
century was so characteristic
an architectural feature of
Sydney, but has since been
abandoned.
“I like very much your
terrace-houses, although they
are now dilapidated,” he said.
“They are very graceful and
have a common-denominator.”
He advised Australian archi-
tects to plan modern houses on
the same lines. The terrace-
house today, with soundproof-
ing and other recently-
developed amenities, wduld be
quite as comfortable as the
popular detached bungalow,
and would greatly mitigate the
suburban sprawl.
The terrace-house is also
cheaper to build than the
detached house, and permits a
far more impressive architec-
tural effect. Gropius’s pupil,
Sydney architect Harry Seidler,
has similarly praised Sydney’s
old terrace-houses. He followed
his master’s advice by design-
ing, two or three years ago, a
modern example in North
Sydney.— Kanimbla (N.S.W.)
Fiji Sugar Troubles
Over the past few years there
has been increasing unrest
among the lower-paid workers
in Fiji. There have been
several strikes, with subse-
quent wage-increases granted
either by negotiation or arbi-
tration. These have been most
noticeable in the sugar industry.
Much of this year’s unrest
among the sugarmill workers
has been attributed to B. D.
Lakshman, general-president
of the Fiji Sugar industry
Employees’ Association. A
board set-up by the Governor
in March and headed by G. G.
Honeyman, C.8.E., Q.C.,
found that one cause of un-
rest was Lakshman’s use of his
power for “personal aggran-
disement rather than the ad-
vancement and improvement of
the conditions and status of the
workers.” Another was the
remote-control of the Colonial
Sugar Refining Company from
its head-office in Sydney.
The board, which had no
power to make an award,
recommended a wage-increase
of 3d. an hour and retention
of the 44-hour working-week.
The workers had sought an
increase from Is. sd. to 3s. an
hour and a 40-hour week.
Only dissenting voice on the
board was Mr. Bhindi, the
Indian member, who recom-
mended an increase of Bd. an
hour.
The C.S.R. agreed to the
increase, but stressed that the
board had found that the
“John. ..JOHN! I told you those moon-creatures
Would fire something terrible back at us!”
workers were adequately paid
and that the C.S.R. is a good
employer. The company
pointed out that the sugar
industry is not as prosperous
as it was, and that they could
not keep on granting wage-
increases. Also, as a result of
wage-increases, “the company
could not afford to carry out
to the same extent, or as
rapidly, some of the plans it
had in mind to develop on
housing and other projects.”
The sugar-workers should
now sit back and think. The
C.S.R. is installing plant for
bulk-loading of sugar which
will reduce the labor-force em-
ployed. Also, the C.S.R. is a
very big company, and Fiji
sugar is only one of its many
interests.
Since the wage-increase,
B. D. Lakshman has been
elected to the Legislative
Council. — M. T. Pezet (Fiji).
■ \
The 1.L.0. Crisis
Though Australian news-
papers give a lot of space to
world political affairs, very
little has appeared on the crisis
confronting the International
Labor Organisation. A pity,
for Australia is a staunch
supporter of 1.L.0., contribut-
ing a sizeable annual sum to
its funds and faithfully trying
to implement its conventions.
Founded in 1919, 1.L.0. was
constituted on a basis of tri-
partite representation, dele-
gates from Governments, em-
ployers’ and employees’ organ-
isations from each member-
country being entitled to attend
conferences and vote on an
equal and independent foot-
ing. The idea was that such an
organisation would be able to
give full and balanced con-
sideration to matters like labor-
conditions and -relations. v
Up to the end of the last war
the system worked more-or-
less as intended. Since 1954,
however, the atmosphere of the
International Labor Confer-
ence has entirely changed.
There is now within the organ-
isation a bloc of about 40 dele-
gates for whom the tripartite
constitution has no meaning.
This bloc comprises the
Government representatives of
Soviet Russia and its satellites,
together with their so-called
employers’ and employees’
delegates.
The British Government
delegate, Sir William Evans,
recently summed-up the posi-
tion as follows:
The real problem which is begin-
ning to face this organisation and
with which it will be confronted
more acutely In the future, is the
spectacle of completely socialised
States, in which there remains
scarcely any individual liberty and
where the employers and workers
are pledged to follow solely the
views and orders of their Govern-
ment. Should this system spread
throughout the world, it could very
well be that our organisation will
become, little by little, arl organisa-
tion dominated by the Govern-
ments.
In an article in a leading'
Paris journal a French em-
ployers’ delegate, M. Pierre
Waline, has examined this
threat to 1.L.0. While 1.L.0.
has, constitutionally, the power
to verify the authority of
nominated delegates and
reject those it considers not
bona fide, M. Waline points
out that for political and diplo-
matic reasons delegates
generally are reluctant to
oppose nominations, and in
practice the two-thirds majority
needed to invalidate a
nominee’s credentials has rarely
been obtained.
Thus employer and em-
ployee delegates from the
totalitarian countries continue
to attend and vote at confer-
ences. The real clash comes
when the employers’ or em-
ployees’ group meets to elect
candidates for the tripartite
commissions established to
draw-up the texts of inter-
national conventions.
Each year since 1954 the
employers’ group has declined
to nominate for the commis-
sions candidates put up by the
Communist employers’ dele-
gates. Each year the latter
have protested to the full con-
ference, which until 1958
agreed to allot them seats as
associate-members—i.e., with-
out voting-rights in the com-
missions.
Last year, however, the
Communist delegates flatly
rejected this partial satisfaction;
and under pressure the 1.L.0.
conference in 1959 reluctantly
empowered a committee of
three outside the conference
delegates to review group-
decisions and, if it thought fit,
to overrule them. The im-
mediate result was that Com-
munist “employers’ ” delegates,
who had been refused seats on
commissions, were granted
places by the committee.
The problem of preserving
the essential tripartite nature of
the organisation is only one
aspect. Conventions drawn-up
by 1.L.0. on labor matters are
periodically submitted to the
member-States for ratification.
States adopting these conven-
tions are, naturally, bound to
implement them. The black-
list of countries that fail to do
so, or apply ratified agreements


t
1
eab#!
m
\ V
m
SSS
!)!'*!
V
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
IDEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANYI
with extraordinary laxity, is
rapidly growing. The Com-
munist States of Eastern
Europe are notorious offenders
in this regard.
Clearly these countries
regard membership of 1.L.0. as
merely another means of
propaganda. It is good propa-
ganda to “ratify” labor-con-
ventions they have no intention
of implementing, and it is to
their advantage to induce com-
peting countries to burden
themselves with increased
labor-costs by adopting new
and higher standards. In short,
they are using the 1.L.0. for
their own ends.
The 1.L.0. seems to be facing
the crossroads: either it can
attempt to live-up to its
original high principles, or it
can compromise on them for
the sake of coexistence between
free countries and totalitarian
States. Either way, the choice
is difficult. — Wusslean (Vic.).
Brisbane Public Transport
The “Political Point” on
Brisbane’s public transport
(B. 23 /9/’59) did not empha-
sise that Queensland Treasurer
Hiley, while he urged the City
Compel to get rid of its buses,
did not suggest getting rid
of the trams or trolley-buses.
This makes his proposal quite
different from the Lord
Mayor’s, since the electric
vehicles carry three-quarters of
the passengers.
The Treasurer’s figures
showed that the buses cause
a financial drain on the council
out of all proportion to the
work they do. For the five
years ended June, 1958, the
buses required a capital-
expenditure of nearly half-a-
million and accumulated
operating-losses of more than
a million.
Lord Mayor Groom is
naturally concerned with
council finances, but his pro-
posal would merely pass the
buck. He should note that
the Municipal Transport Trust
in Adelaide, which is presum-
ably the sort of body he has
in mind, this year congratu-
lated itself for reducing its loss
to a mere £600,000-odd. This
is more than the B.C.C. Trans-
port Department has ever lost
in one year, despite the fact
that the Adelaide trust attracts
only about half as many
passengers onto its vehicles as
the Brisbane department in a
city of about the same size.
This last point, incidentally,
pretty convincingly demon-
strates that the travelling
public prefers modern trams to
modern buses. — Jakipi (Q.).
First Leading Lady
If there’s still “some con-
jecture” regarding the birth-
country of Eliza Winstanley,
as Elizabeth Edwards says in
her interesting article on “Aus-
tralia’s First Leading Lady”
(B. 30/9/’59), it’s surely time
such guesses were abandoned.
The new edition of
the Australian Encyclopaedia
makes clear that Eliza was
born at Blackburn, Lancashire,
and was brought to Australia
by her parents at the age of
10. Anyway, she was virtually
a dyed-in-the-wool Australian,
for- her acting-ability was de-
veloped in Sydney (partly
through the fortuitous circum-
stance that her dad got a job
as scene-painter), and this
country provided the back-
ground for most of the tales
she wrote in later life. Also,
although she spent a good
many years abroad, she was
both' married and buried in
Sydney.
Elizabeth Edwards gives the
date of the death of Eliza’s
husband (H. C. O’Flaherty) as
around 1845, but that, mani-
festly, is a slip, since the article
mentions earlier that he went
with Eliza to England in 1846 ;
the A.E. makes the date of
his death “about 1854.”
What’s happened to all those
books Eliza wrote from 1859
until shortly before her death
in 1882? They were issued,


I understand, in pretty fair
numbers, yet they never seem
to appear on the secondhand
stalls.— Phil Anthus (N.S.W.).
The Wyndham Report
“Sir” (B. 30/9/’59) ignores
the question of elective
subjects, which was the point
originally in dispute. Instead
he quotes an editorial extract
from a Sydney private school’s
magazine which he regards as
“the only semi - official
opinion which has so far
found its way into print.”
I don’t know what “semi-
official” means here, but inde-
pendent evaluations of the
Wyndham Report appeared in
the April and July (1958)
issues of “The Australian
Journal of Education.”
One-third of “Sir’s” quoted
extract refers to the problem
of timetables and syllabuses,
to which I drew attention
some weeks ago ; the remainder
rightly emphasises that the
recommendations must be
implemented in the right spirit.
This kind of thing has to be
said, I know —any plan or
principle can be wrongly
applied—but all would agree
with the statement as it stands ;
though not, perhaps, with
what is the “right attitude” or
“spirit.”
“Sir” then goes on to state
or imply that departmental
’card tell about automation, Jarge, but this is the
first time I've seen ’ un .”
heads and teachers, being
“thoroughly indoctrinated pro-
ducts of .... the public-
examination rat-race,” are
incapable of thinking about
education except in terms of
“the examination grind for-
lorn.”
But these departmental
heads have during the past two
decades abolished the primary-
final examination and the
external Intermediate as far as
most pupils are concerned, and
have introduced an alternative
curriculum and general-
activities courses all of
which suggests, perhaps, that
they need some more brain-
washing.
How does one assess a
pupil’s aptitudes? I under-
stand it is done by comparing
his attainments, knowledge,
skill, etc., with those of the
average pupil of his age. This
may mean consideration of his
marks and place, having
regard to the quality of his
class or group, or of his
standard scores on a series of
standardised tests. If “Sir”
has a better method I hope he
will reveal it —so long as it
doesn’t entail the use of “magic
casements” or the like.
As regards “public examina-
tions,” I think “Sir” and I
use the term in different
senses. For him, it seems, a
public examination is one with
a certificate attached to it. To
me it is an examination with
the same syllabus, papers,
system of marking, examiners
and pass-standard for all who
attempt it at the one time. It
is set by a public central
body, and an attempt is made
to maintain a consistent pass-
standard from year to year.
The only school examina-
tions in N.S.W. meeting these
criteria are the external Inter-
mediate and the Leaving. Of
' every hundred pupils coming
into secondary schools about
seven do the external Inter-
mediate, 50 do the internal
Intermediate (set and marked
by the pupil’s own teachers)
and 16 do the Leaving.^—
A. J. W. (N.S.W.).
The Clancy Country
The radio Quiz Kids were
lately asked where the Over-
flow was situated. Unable to
answer, they were told it is
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 560
Across
I—Sold under the hammer in education. (9)
6 —Post-office dog to come suddenly into view. (3, 2)
9 —Rest upon the bottom hitters who won’t stand for the
boss's working conditions. (3-4, 8)
10 — Sudden incursions like young Moses. (8)
11 — Implied thanks given by one of Sheridan’s citizens. (5)
14 —Liquor-maker’s equipment delivered? (9)
17 —More depressed. (5)
18— An American might regard this
as a State potentate like Haroun
al Raschid. (5)
19 — Black figure which has the usual
effect of heating baby. (9)
21 — Pulse what spoils the broth? (5)
22 — Try some confidence trickery on
a tennis delivery in a jam. (8)
26 —To this place before the funeral
vigil in which William the
Conqueror’s adversary appears.
(8, 3,4)
28 — One used to stitching a drain. (5)
29 — It may be necessary for some
shooting disease in the blood-
vessel. (9)
Down
1— U.S.A. isn’t providing the
materials for these non-American
vehicles. (7)
2 Royalty to be mentioned in the
malicious gossip column what’s
grubby? (11)
3 Is holding a boy in shackles. (5)
4 North twice halved the present
moment. (5)
5 How a negro says that a Yankee
prosecutor is given thanks for the
facts. (4)
6 —ls this operating - theatre
equipment suitable for por-
traiture? (9)
7 Small piano that is a baker’s
prison for two-dozen birds. (3)
8 — Sit amid the impoverished organ
for putting down. (7)
12 — Where the salesman may wrap-
up glass for the window
coverlet. (11)
13— Taste upset midge. (4)
15 — Jack didn’t stay with a charac-
ter who keeps bending
politely. (4, 5)
16 — It’s nothing, though a Roman
emperor. (4)
18 —One has to angle to get such
avoided misses. (7)
20—Per that definite article about
Billy without hjs heartsick-
ness. (7)
23 Ensemble gives part of Mordial-
loc tetanus. (5)
24 Wax toff. (5)
25 — A king-emperor shortened a
number out of opera. (4)
27 —Rotten name of one such
scrap. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 559.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SULUVakt
zi» PTYLTD. a
trade
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
where the Macquarie River
flows into the marshes. Think-
ing it a pity that such an in-
accurate statement should go
unchallenged, I wrote giving
them the facts. My letter was
not even acknowledged.
The Overflow that Banjo
took the name from is a station
roughly halfway between Con-
dobolin and Cobar. As a
youngster about 70 years ago,
I put in some time along the
Lower Macquarie. The
country where the river empties
into the marshes was called
“The Mole” no one ever
heard it ealled the Overflow in
those days.
The property belonged to
Gardiner, of Ellengerah, and
after his death was bought by
Tom Ellis. It used to be
notorious for wild-pigs.—R. A.
McCallum (N.S.W.).
Finance for Old Homes
Can’t agree with “Morris
the Tinker’s” comments (B.
16/9/’59) on the availabilty of
building-society finance for
older homes in Australia.
One of my tasks as a law-
clerk is to ensure that all the
legal formalities regarding
building-society advances have
been satisfied before the lend-
ing-body makes the advance
available. Of 27 loans await-
ing approval, no less than five
are for houses more than 30
years old, while three relate to
houses more than 10 years old.
The only difficulty a prospec-
tive buyer of an old house will
experience when the society is
providing the bulk of the
finance is this: if the house is
dilapidated, or if some of its
appointments are antiquated,
then the society will withold
a proportion of the advance
until the improvements have
been made.—C. W. P. (N.S.W.).
Lemon for the Teacher
f I hear that the South Aus-
tralian Education Department
is importing teachers from
England to fill vacancies in
Australian schools. This strikes
me as a very bright idea—
provided, of course, the local
market for teachers has been
thoroughly exploited.
The other day an acquaint-
ance dropped in and showed
me a file of correspondence.
My friend, a man of mature
age with excellent academic
qualifications, has had 15
years’ teaching-experience in
Australian secondary-schools
(up to Leaving standard) and
has the best (paper) references
I’ve ever read. He is also an
ex-Serviceman of both world-
wars.
It seems that, in May of this
year, he noticed a newspaper
advertise me n t proclaiming
vacancies on the teaching-staff
of a high-school in the
Northern Territory. The ad.
said that applications must
be addressed to Darwin, so he
applied. On June 1 a Darwin
official wrote to say that he
had forwarded the application
to Adelaide, as all N.T. high-
school ' appointments were
made from there. Then, after
“Good morning , Mr. Hally day—have a good holiday ?”
three weeks of chilling silence,
Adelaide came to life with a
letter acknowledging this
application.
In the letter a South Aus-
tralian education-official said
he was recommending the
appointment, asked how soon
my friend would be ready to
leave for the Far North, and
enclosed a number of papers
to be filled-in by a doctor certi-
fying that my friend was not
merely sound in wind and
limb, but also of good blood-
pressure and free from
tendencies to mental insta-
bility, etc. The official also
mentioned that the status my
friend would enjoy in the
department would be that of
“Temporary Junior Assistant”,
(initially on probation).
My friend went along to the
doctor and, after eye-tests,
ear-tests and the kind of test
that goes with coughing, fol-
lowed by a path.-test (specimen
required) and most other kinds
of tests, he was pronounced
fit, and the medico duly filled-
in the forms.
All this was done at my
friend’s expense ; the incuna-
bula were parcelled-up and
dispatched to Adelaide by air-
mail with a covering letter to
say that my friend would be
ready to leave for the Far
North within a few days after
getting notice of appointment.
He added that he assumed a
warrant to cover the cost of
travel (approximately £5O)
would be sent.
My friend then prepared
himself for imminent depar-
ture, but the South Australian
end remained mute for three
weeks.
The monotony of waiting
was broken by a cheery letter
from a Darwin official. This
began breezily: “By this you
will have received from
Adelaide notice of appoint-
ment to the high-school . . .”
The writer went on to say
that he would like to know
how soon my friend would
arrive and whether he wanted
accommodation booked for him
at a Government hostel, etc.;
it all ended, in a surprisingly
unofficial burst of enthusiasm,
with “I hope you will enjoy
your stay here.”
My friend replied, somewhat
guardedly, that he was waiting
(practically with his hat on) for
the o.k. from Adelaide.
Another three weeks rolled by,
and my friend, growing rather
impatient, sent a brief reminder
to Adelaide. At length there
arrived one morning a very
brief communication from
Adelaide expressing regret that
no suitable position could be
found for my friend in that
high-school in the Far North
which had been clamoring so
loudly for teachers.
About two letters later (after
much acrimonious correspond-
ence) a higher-up official at
Adelaide expressed some
regret about any inconvenience
that might have been caused
through a misunderstanding of
certain letters, etc., adding
that no firm offer of appoint-
ment had ever been made. And
in a later letter my friend
learnt that, apparently, depart-
mental protocol had been out-
raged by the stipulation of
“certain conditions relative to
the appointment which were
neither practicable nor accept-
able to this department.”
Because my friend was un-
willing to pay the £50 cost of
transport to the Far North it
seems a number of pupils in
that high-school will have to
rely on the resources of the
local coaching-college to get
them through their exams. —
Sir (Q.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
A fter reading the article
in which I tried to intro-
duce the complicated subject
of plastics, a friend cornered
me and asked: “What is the
difference between a plastic and
a synthetic rubber?” That’s a
nasty question, but it’s im-
portant, so I’ll try to answer it.
I mentioned the fact that
there are two kinds of plastics:
those which will always soften
when heated, and those which
soften the first time they are
heated but harden with further
heat and can’t be resoftened
—“ thermo - plastics ” and
“ thermo - setting resins,” as
they are called respectively.
Rubbers, whether natural or
synthetic, are a bit like thermo-
setting resins, because when
heated during vulcanising they
undergo a chemical reaction
which toughens them and
makes them stable to heat.
But, instead of ending-up hard
and horny, like bakelite or
melamine, they become elastic
Consumption of wool
in the U.S.A. increased
by 1.5 per cent, in
February over January,
consumption, and by
44.3 per cent, over the
corresponding period
in 1958, according to
the figures released by
the U.S. Department of
Commerce. It was also
stated that the percen-
tage of raw wool used
in the two months
ending February, 1959,
was up 33.9 per cent,
over the same period
of 1958.
Progressive w o o 1-
growers are changing
to Elastrator, the safe,
sure, humane method
of Castrating and Tail-
ing. With the Elastrator
method there are no
open wounds, thus
lessening the risk of
fly-strike and other
diseases usually asso-
ciated with old-fashioned
methods of Castrating
and Tailing.
or springy and tough. Now,
synthetic rubbers are made
from different organic com-
pounds, which come from
petroleum or coal and are
formed into long chains of
molecules. These are hooked
together with sulphur by vul-
canising to make them tough,
“He must have a headache."
and fillers, pigments, etc., are
usually added to improve their
qualities.
This is where the question
I was asked becomes confus-
ing. There are many com-
pounds which, when made into
chains —or “ polymerised ”
can be used to make rubbers
or to make plastics. One
example is the substance
“acrylo - nitrile.” It is used
with polystyrene to make an
excellent thermo-plastic, which
is good for making the cases
of milking-machine teat-cups.
It is also used with buta-diene
to make an excellent synthetic
rubber. In fact, a rather nice
combination is the plastic cup
with an inflation made of the
acrylo-nitrile rubber. The cup
is tough and horny, the infla-
tion is also tough, but soft and
resistant to fat.
Thus, it isn’t so much the
actual chemistry of what is
used at the start of the process
that matters, but what is done
to the compounds in the fac-
tory. A synthetic rubber is
something which is rubbery
but not natural rubber, and a
plastic is—well, I explained
that in my earlier article ; here
I want to discuss several other
useful applications of modern
plastics in the cowshed.
A year or two ago a French
manufacturer started making
milk-cans and cream-cans of
polythene. These have several
advantages: they never need
retinning and won’t dent or
rust; they are light and almost
bounce when dropped.
There were problems with
the earlier types of polythene.
It was apt to be affected by
butterfat, and it didn’t stand-
up to the use of steam or scald-
ing water in can-washers and
sterilisers. Modern polythenes
should eliminate all these
troubles, and future milk-cans
will almost certainly be made
of polythene or some related
substance.
Rubber lids, lately tested at
the Sydney University farm,
proved very successful. This
is a sensible development; the
only puzzle is why it didn’t
happen sooner. The next logi-
cal development would be a
plastic can-lid made from
some of the newer materials,
which are really a cross
between a synthetic rubber and
a true plastic. Such materials
are tough, elastic and resistant
to water and fat. They are,
perhaps, a bit expensive at the
moment; but can-lids made
from such materials would be
so much better than the present
sort that a little extra cost
might be an economy in the
long run.
Some time ago I ran an
experiment using resin bonded
with glass-fibres, to test its
resistance to detergents and
milk. It was what is called a
“polyester resin,” bonded with
a felt of fine glass-fibres—the
sort of material used for boats,
furniture, etc. Why not make
milk-vats out of it? It’s
resistant to detergents and
milk, has a smooth hygienic
surface, never needs retinning,
and can be dropped without
denting.
Every summer there is a
great hullabaloo here in
Sydney about the “oxidised
flavor” of our milk, which con-
dition is caused by copper
from milking-machines, vats
and the like. It would be nice
to use stainless-steel for all
these things, but it is too
expensive. Modern plastics,
used properly, would help a
lot to get rid of this copper-
problem.
Another use for cheap
plastics in the cowshed is in
making a good strip-cup. I
am always talking to farmers
about how important it is to
use a strip-cup to see if the
cows have mastitis, but when
they ask for the article in the
local store nobody knows
where to get one. The result
is that the farmer squirts the
milk on the tip of his gum-
boot or, worse, on the floor.
A solution could be to have
a cup made of polystyrene or
some similar cheap, service-
able material. An American
firm sells penicillin in a cheap
aluminium container, with a
top which makes it suitable
as a strip-cup. Why not make
a cheap plastic container for
the same purpose? As there
is a need for good udder-
ointment here, perhaps the
logical development is a strip-
cup as the container for such
an ointment.
One very sensible develop-
ment is the making of brushes
for milking-machines out of
nylon (which is a thermo-
plastic made as the first
attempt to produce a material
like wool).
The first nylons were graced
by the name “polyhexamethy-
lene-adipamide,” and were
made from petroleum products
and castor-oil. I imagine they
now come entirely from petro-
leum. There’s a story that,
when the chemists at Du Ponts
—where the nylons were
developed recognised that
they had a fibre much better
than the natural silk America
imported from Japan someone
commented: “Now, you lousy
old Nipponese!”—and the
initials of this are said to have
formed the name!
However, nylon fibres,
though excellent for brushes,
are still supported by a twisted
wire, and this, when it’s a bit
buckled, rubs against the soft-
tin surface of the tubes and


STEEL PIPE Needs No
Underground Protection
■ M
m
:
I
Ms.
m
■
:
* \il:
m
*
m
■ ■:■.:■.■■■ VV v:.v.
SI ;; ■:
I
Whenever water
has to he conveyed—
there's ho satis-
factory substitute
for STEEL PIPE
Before ordering, think of these advan-
tages that steel pipe has over other
types of piping.
★ Because it is not fragile or susceptible
to damage by stock or fire, it can be
laid above ground, thereby saving
cost of trenching.
★ Greater strength gives far longer life.
★ Steel pipe does not deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure.
★ Is not damaged by termites or
rodents.
★ Has much greater pressure capacity.
★ Steel pipe is easy to install, handle or
store without fear of breakage.
★ In-built structural strength and rigidity
permit overhead vertical and
building installations,
★ No other type of pipe is so
economical ... so enduring . . . so
versatile in its application..
Why take risks with other fragile, easily damaged, shorter-lived types of piping!
FOR VALUE... GREATER STRENGTH... LONGER LIFE,,, INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
jiettmuij arid LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong,
Launceston, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlte.
SSA2—S9.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
removes the tin. Why not have
a completely plastic brush?
It would be much safer in the
farmer’s hands. I’m sure the
twisted-wire principle for mak-
ing brushes could be used with
suitable plastics—or, perhaps,
all we need do now is to coat
the wire with p.v.c., which is
easy, and later make the brush
from it.
Anyhow, any plastics-man
reading this article will be able
to solve this problem cheaply.
There is a definite market for
a brush for milking-machine
tubes which has no metal parts
to come into contact with the
tinned surfaces of the machine.
That’s another possible use for
plastics in the cowshed.
Some time ago I saw a can
made of polythene, with, a
polythene chain to hold the
lid to the can. The chain was
light and strong —just the thing
for a breaching-chain. Metal
is heavy ; steel, which is nor-
mally used, rusts. Polythene
would be ideal. It’s easy to
keep clean, looks elegant, and
would not knock the paint-
work about the way a steel
chain does.
Personally, I don’t approve
of legropes, and think they
are not necessary in a well-
run shed; but if a farmer
thinks he must have them, they
should at least be hygienic.
Rope and leather, the favorites,
are filthy and should never be
used; they absorb dung and
become reservoirs for bacteria.
Straps made of nylon or p.v.c.
would be better. Some farmers
like chains ; I think they are
too hard on the cows. How-
ever, polythene chains might
be the answer.
From what I have said, you
will see that there are many
possible applications for plas-
tics in the cowshed. Plastics-
designers have shown a lot
of ingenuity in making gadgets
which appear once in the
chain-stores, sell like hot cakes
for a brief season, and then
disappear, never to be seen
again. This is a pity, because
it makes people think that
plastics aren’t suited for
serious jobs—and it’s not true.
I’d like to see some ingenious
designer go into a cowshed
and take a good look at the
farmer’s problems there.
That’s the way plastics-
engineers could really help men
on the land.
Sheep-oh!
In B. 12/8/’59 “M.G.”
wants the “drum” on slipping
in a “dry”- vote ticket under the
union rep.’s eyes.
Well, it’s a matter of digital
dexterity, bluff, sophistry and
quixotic ethics. Of course you
would not manipulate if you
thought you were getting a
dinkum vote and that the
“woollies” were really wet.
You know, being an
authority, that the bloke on
the end-stand has a bigger
hangover than Ray Milland in
“Lost Weekend.” He just made
the board and is a certainty to
vote “wet,” even though the
dust flies out of the two test-
sheep as he drags them out of
the pen. Your manipulation is
justified!
You know the cove with the
two big boils inside his legs,
just where he grips the sheep,
is a 66-t O-l pop to put in a
“wet” vote. He could go to
the huts justifiably; but he
does not want the rest of the
mob to get his share of the
sheep.
Everyone in the game knows
how hard it is to get a “dry”
decision any time Friday if
the local boys are within strik-
ing-distance of their home-
town. Why should the Sydney
shearers sit down in the huts
while the locals shoot through
home to Mum?
So, judicially, you try to
swing the vote by this single
“dry” ticket. It often makes
the difference.
The award says: “Even vote
—shear on.” A shearer may
be making more and easier
dough running the game than
on the “Bogghi,” so he’ll “vote
’em out.” Why should your
“cop” be diminished by a
gambler’s caprice?
The “wet” vote can be a
retaliatory weapon, too, if the
team get a set on an owner
or a boss-of-the-board who
insists on “too tight a cut.”
A team in the west voted 11
to 1 “wet” —there’d been a
defeated “jack-up” for a quid
a hundred extra —after a scud
of three pebbles in a Darling
shower on the shed-roof. At
the cut-out, in the pub, the
men admitted the sheep were
as dry as a punctured waterbag.
In any team there js always
one who’s an incorrigible “wet”
voter in any circumstances. His
perversity can often be
defeated. There is sometimes
also a hypochondriac who
thinks shearing sheep with a
spot on ’em 10 days ago leads
to arthritis and premature
impotence. Why suffer—when
you can prevent it —from some
character’s neuroses? Slip-in
a “dry” ticket? Not on your
life ; wouldn’t have the guts!
Even from soft shearing
moccasins, my ribs bruise too
easily. The shearing mob would
not work for or with you, and
you couldn’t blame ’em.
The “dry”-ticket manipula-
tion business was the only
fictional element in my original
article.
Bill Howard.
Register of Flora
“A.C.T.”: Farmers, foresters
and gardeners will welcome
the decision made by the
A.N.Z.A.A.S. conference in
Perth to undertake a £1,500,000
project for classifying Austra-
lian plant-life.
Federal aid is being sought
in the compilation of an
encyclopaedia, which is to be
called Flora Australiensis, and
will take 20 years to compile.
Botanists in all States can help
by collecting, studying and
identifying plants in field-
conditions in all parts of Aus-
tralia. In addition to helping
primary industries, the project
will be of value in the study
of drug-plants.
Antibodies in Milk
“Ashley Hill”: Let’s hope
the new American method of
curing arthritis and complaints
like asthma, hay-fever, hives
and migraine through drinking
milk will soon be available in
Australia.
Dr. Peterson, of the Minne-
sota University, has discovered
that, if he injects cows with
any of these complaints, anti-
bodies are formed in the blood-
stream and milk. For a long
time we have known that a
mother’s milk will protect her
baby by means of antibodies,
and that such infectious
diseases as measles and whoop-
ing cough are not feared while
the child is breast-fed. It’s a
wonder someone didn’t think
of the new method before now.
Pollen from flowers which
usually give the sufferer aller-
gies is injected into the cow,
the cow manufactures the anti-
bodies, and if the milk is drunk
quickly (at least a quart a day)
most people are cured, some
some only
seasonally.
People with hands crippled
by arthritis are now given full
movement. Although 900
patients are being treated, the
method is still in its infancy,
and even more is hoped for,
with a possibility of controlling
other diabases. The milk, of
course, will cost more than
ordinary milk, but the treat-
ment will not be nearly as
expensive as, say, gold-dust
injections or cortisone.
Perhaps this really is the
answer to good health, besides
being a terrific boost to the
dairying industry.
Fodder-beet
“Billjim”: A small acreage
of fodder-beet is useful for a
dairy-herd, as well as for pro-
duction of pig-meat.
For best results from this
crop a well-drained paddock,
rich in organic matter, should
have been ploughed during the
later winter. From September
on, the main effort, before
sowing, must be to destroy
weeds and prepare moist, firm
seedbeds. For early feeding,
the crop is best sown in Sep-
tember, and for later feeding
from mid-October to mid-
November.
Methods of sowing are best
determined by local practice.
Some farmers drill along
ridges, others on the flat, while
transplanting, with the aid of
spray-irrigation, is successful
in certain areas.
Rows should be between
21in. and 28in. apart. Space
individual plants 12in. apart
in the rows, to allow full
development of root and tops.
Seeding-rates vary from 31b.
to 61b. an acre, but 41b. is
recommended for most soil-
conditions. Thinning and
singling of the crop takes a
lot of time, but perhaps it’s
the most important single
operation associated with
growth and development.
Don’t use hormones on the
crop, because beet is suscep-
tible to this weedicide. Use
of fertilisers must be governed
by the fertility of the area;
but, since beet is a gross
feeder, with higher require-
ments than most other crops,


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. BUFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLMO. DA\La.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies In all Country Centres
plenty of well-balanced phos-
phatip and nitrogenous manure
will pay. If there’s a deficiency
of boron, use up to 101 b. an
acre of borax.
Varieties well tested over a
wide range of soil-conditions
include Korsroe, Yellow Daeno
and Red Otofte. Pajbjerg Rex
is particularly suitable for feed-
ing to pigs because of its high
dry-matter content.
S.A. Agricultural
Bureau
“Soustralian”: There’s some
interesting history attaching to
the South Australian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, which
was first joined with Rose-
worthy Agricultural College.
Professors Custance, Lawrie
and Perkins were all principals
of Roseworthy, as well as
being directors of agriculture.
The Agricultural Bureau was
founded in 1888 (in Lawrie’s
time) by Albert Molineaux, a
newspaperman; the belief
that it preceded the Depart-
ment of Agriculture is there-
fore probably right.
The aim of the bureau in
early days was to examine and
make recommendations on all
the problems of settlers, fruit-
growers and livestock-men.
Membership was restricted,
and gaining admission was a
matter of waiting for an exist-
ing member to die. There
being no accepted agricultural
experts, the whole of the
examining, and recommending
was done by members them-
selves.
The organisation spread
rapidly throughout the State,
and by the 1930’s reached a
peak of some 260 branches
and 10,500 members.
Today the bureau depends
largely upon the Department
of Agriculture for technical
help. Here more than 150
trained agriculturists are
always ready to come to the
aid of farmers. Wet or fine,
hail or dust, these civil ser-
vants go out night after night
to help bureau meetings, often
travelling considerable dist-
ances. Discussion still plays
a part, bureau-members being
keen to work-out their ov/n
destinies.
The bureau is now controlled
by the Advisory Board of
Agriculture, which is appointed
personally by the Minister of
Agriculture. In early days the
board was responsible for
advising the Minister about
agricultural problems of the
State, but the expansion of the
Department of Agriculture has
largely superseded that duty.
Today organiser C. Wood
travels from bureau to bureau
assisting with ideas for pro-
grammes, demonstrating how
meetings should be run, show-
ing how to discus-
sion and helping to organise
any big event.
The board organises a State
Bureau Congress each year,
and 21 district or regional
conferences are held in differ-
ent centres annually, with
departmental officers present to
give addresses, summarise dis-
cussions or answer questions.
Alongside the bureau has
grown-up a galaxy of pro-
ducers’ organisations, mainly
concerned with marketing,
prices and politics. The
bureau itself firmly opposes
political or sectarian discus-
sions. For 60 years the bureau
survived without a constitu-
tion, and the political and
sectarian rule was almost the
only one it had. Now it has
a brand-new constitution, but
the pattern remains the same.
In its 70 years the bureau
has been guided by a select
band: Molineaux, W. L.
Summers, Harold Finniss
(director of the R.A.H.S.),
Harold Pritchard, Fred
Richards and now Collin
Wood.
Saving Water
“Aqua Boy”: There’s no
commodity easier to waste
than water, particularly in
pasture-irrigation.
One way to stop this waste
is to measure the depth of
penetration after irrigation. A
piece of round iron with a
welded handle will do the job.
Push it into the earth until firm
resistance is felt, then the
depth of the soakage can be
measured on the iron.
Done at points, that will
show the general result of
water-penetration. Necessary
adjustments can then be made
to increase or decrease water-
application to the quantity
required. Before further irriga-
tion, use an earth-auger to
assess soil-moisture —it will
show the extent to which the
earth has dried-out and give
a guide to future requirements
of water.
In furrow-irrigation make
sure the furrows are of regu-
lar shape ; otherwise, in some
places, the flow of water will
be fast and won’t allow suffi-
cient soil-penetration, while at
wider points it will be too slow
and will lead to waterlogging
and the formation of small
ponds.
If no other means of measur-
ing the rate of water-supply
is available, turn the output
into a tank of which you know
the gallonage. Note the time
it takes to fill the tank, and
from this you can calculate the
volume of flow each hour.
Export Cheese
“North”: Japan is now buy-
ing from Queensland consider-
able quantities of cheddar
cheese, and a cheese-processing
plant has been sent to the
Philippines for blending
Queensland cheese for local
consumption there.
Also, several tons of rind-
less cheddar, packed in 401 b.
rectangular packages and
sealed in plastic material, have
been shipped to the United
Kingdom. Rindless plastic-
packed cheese is very popular
with housewives on our own
market, but little had been
exported overseas.
Australians are poor cheese-
eaters, with an annual indi-
vidual consumption of between
61b. and 71b., compared with
the annual average 181 b. of the
French. To increase the popu-
larity of cheese locally, a big
promotion-campaign is being
undertaken by the Queensland
Cheese Marketing Board.
Among other aims is its sale
in hotel-bars throughout the
State.
Markets for ghee (butter
clarified by boiling and con-
verted into oil) have been
obtained in both Syria and
Lebanon, while Queensland
also supplies about 90 per cent,
of the ghee imported by
Malaya, Singapore and
Thailand.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: Best filling for a
gash taken out of an orna-
mental tree is a mixture of
three parts sawdust and one
part bitumen - preparation.
Smooth the filling off below
the cambium layer (just be-
neath the bark) so that the
callous can grow over it.
“Danny”: In hot weather
gather eggs three times a day
to prevent reheating when other
hens use the nest to lay. Use
wire baskets for collecting and
keep the eggs in a cool, well-
ventilated room until they are
sent to market.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(1/10/’59)
Queensland should have good general rains during
November, but with heavy falls and flooding in the centre-
coast, central-western and south-western districts. Good
rains should continue in December and the whole State
should have a good season.
N.S.W. is likely to be in for heavy general rains during
November, with widespread flooding. Heaviest falls will
probably be in the n.-w. slopes and plains areas, central
tablelands and central-western and south-western districts.
Reasonably good rains should continue in December, with
further heavy falls in the southern divisions.
Heavy general rains and consequent flooding are prob-
able in Victoria during November; moderately good rains
should continue in December. However, falls may be light
in the Mallee and Wimmera districts.
Reasonably good rains should occur in much of South
Australia during November, although falls may be light
on the far-western coast. Patchy rains are likely in
December.
In Western Australia general rains should occur in the
south-western districts, with best falls on the central coast.
Rainfall may be patchy and below normal in the rest of the
State.
A
LENNOX WALKER.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE SUTCLIFFE late of
Carneley Avenue New Lambton in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that JOSEPH WILLIAM
DONNELLY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1468 of 1959 on the ground
of your adultery with MOLLY DON-
NELLY If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 21st De-
cember 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from RANKIN
& NATHAN, Solicitors, of 8 Watt Street,
Newcastle, or their agents, PURVES,
MOODIE & STOREY, Solicitors, 11c
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
* NOTICE OF CITATION
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LILY HARE late of Ashfield in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that HUGH HARE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1286 of 1959
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or execution for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 21st day
of December 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from J. C.
HARRIS & CO., Solicitors, of 39 Martin
Place, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Missing Friend
CORBETT, Margaretha Annette Luc-
retia, formerly of London and of
Cronulla, near Sydney, widow. Would
anyone knowing the whereabouts of the
above, a beneficiary in an English de*.
ceased’s Estate, communicate for her
benefit with the undersigned.—DUDLEY
WESTGARTH & CO., Solicitors, 369
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Does Anybody Know?
1
When the last Cobb and Co.
coach was run in N.S.W., and
names of properties held by the
co.?
Information Sought
Exact boundaries of the Pacific
Ocean ?
As defined by the International
Hydrograhpic Bureau in 1953, in
a publication dealing with the limits
of oceans and seas, the South
Pacific Ocean lies outside the
boundaries of the Tasman, Coral,
Solomon and Bismarck Seas, and
therefore touches no part of the
Australian continent. The northern
limit of the ocean is the Equator.
Australian territories bordering the
ocean comprise the northern part
of the Territory of New Guinea
between long. 141 deg. E. and
142 deg. 02min. E., and the coast
of the Australian Antarctic Terri-
tory between long. 146 deg. 55min. E.
and 160 deg. E.
• * * *
Brief outline of the history of
the music-hall ?
The music-hall was a develop-
ment of the saloon-theatres which
existed in London in 1830-40.
These saloons were attached to
taverns, and were very popular
among the middle- and lower-
classes, who liked to mix their
dramatic amusements with smoking
and light refreshments. Music-
halls gave dramatic performances
as well as variety entertainments,
but were restricted by the “patent
rights,” which were ultimately
abolished through the efforts of a
number of distinguished literary
men, among whom were Charles
Dickens and Sir Edward Bulwer-
Lytton.
Subsequently the saloons gradu-
ally improved in character, and
the music-hall began to appear,
the first being the Canterbury in
Lambeth, which, under the direc-
tion of Charles Morton, cultivated
the best-class music. Morton also
opened the Oxford Music Hall, and
other halls followed. When films
came in, music-halls were seriously
affected; many were converted to
cinema-houses. These days the
term “music-hall” is giving place
to the more applicable name
“variety theatre,” the programme
of entertainment often taking the
form of revue.
* * > *
(1) Has the Russian Soviet
Government ever issued instructions
“ Smile!"
that Christianity or religious teach-
ings are to be discouraged ? (2)
Has the Communist Government of
China ever done the same thing ?
(1) Yes. The actual freedom of
the Church appears to be strictly
limited, and members of the Com-
munist party are barred from
belonging to any church. Orthodox
Christianity was the established
religion of Russia until January 23,
1918, when the Bolshevik decree
disestablished the Orthodox Church.
Its property was appropriated by
the State. A limited number of
churches, however, were loaned to
their congregations, which had to
maintain them themselves, though
they were allowed free use of the
buildings. Religious teaching in
schools giving general education
was forbidden. The Constitution of
1918 specified freedom of religious
and anti-religious propaganda, but
the former was omitted in a later
revision. Between 1918 and 1941
the Church suffered under severe
disabilities, and during the period
1929-35 was openly persecuted.
Many priests were imprisoned or
exiled, though the Government
stated that they were not imprisoned
on religious grounds. The Govern-
ment admitted the continuance of
religious faith, and the Stalin Con-
stitution of 1936 enfranchised the
clergy. With the establishment of
a Soviet Council for Orthodox
Church Affairs in 1943 the Church’s
internal organisation was reorgan-
ised and expanded. At the end
of World War II observers reported
large congregations, but the churches
open were limited in number and
locality.
(2) The Communist Government
of China is similar in its outlook
on religion to the Russian Soviet
Government, and the position in
China is roughly the same as that
in Russia.
* * * *
How to prepare candied peel
from oranges and lemons ?
Peel-off thickest white part of
peel, soak skin in salt and water
fov 48 hours (allow one teaspoon
salt to one pint of water), drain,
cover peel with fresh cold water
and bring to boil. Simmer till
tender and drain again. For three
orange-skins allow £lb. sugar and
|pt. water. Boil sugar and water
together, not too fast, pour syrup
over peel in a basin and leave
for a week. Strain syrup into
saucepan, boil, add the peel and
boil till peel is clear and syrup
nearly gone. Turn on to a plate
rubbed with oil or melted fat;
dry in a fairly warm place. Store
in a tin.
Brief Answers
W.A.D.: (1) Only way to find
out whether a book is worth pub-
lishing is to send the MS. to a
publisher. All reputable publishers,
are prepared to read and advise on
submitted MSS. (2) Sale is usually
on a royalty basis. For full infor-
mation write to Angus and Robert-
son, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, for a copy of Writers and
Artist}' Year Book (price 165.)
which, besides examining such
questions as copyright, first steps
in sale, preparation of MSS., etc.,
also contains a comprehensive list
of Australian, American and
British publishers... .W.H.W.: No
breed or cross-breed of cattle has
been shown to be superior to, or
heavier at the yearling stage, than
all other breeds or cross-
breds. There is very little difference
between breeds of beef-cattle, but
a great deal of difference between
individuals or strains within a breed.
In other words, concentrate on the
development of a fast-growing
strain within your breed of choice
rather than rely on choice of breed
alone to give you rapid rate of
gain to the yearling stage....
8.N.T.: An L.P. recording of a
recital by the Australian Youth
Orchestra in Sydney Town Hall on
May 30 is now on sale. The recital
was the final of a series of four'
concerts given by the A.Y.O. in
Sydney between May 26 and May
30. The 86 members of the
A.Y.0., whose ages range from
15 to 25, come from all States
and receive no payment for their
work. Soloists at the Sydney
recitals was 14-year-old violinist
Geoffrey Michaels, of Perth,
Commonwealth winner of the
instrumental section of the A.B.C.’s
Concerto and Vocal Competition
in 1958. On the recording Michaels
plays the Mendelssohn Violin Con-
certo. Other items include the
overture to “The Merry Wives of
Windsor” (Nicolai) and the Polovt-
sian Dances from “Prince Igor,”
by Borodin... .C.G.: The Depart-
ment of Public Health advises that
your best course would be to
consult an ear, nose and throat
specialist.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. yyill be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should Be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
R.T.: It must be the shortest
centenary ode on record, and that’s
much in its favor:
In eighteen hundred and fifty-nine
Queensland, your sunny State and mine,
Was chartered by the Queen’s own hand,
Made Sovereign State —the Queen’s own
land.
This is the reason for my lay—
One hundred years ago today,
Under the sign of Capricorn,
Queensland, the sunshine State, was
born.
. ...J.A.: We’ll find a perch here
for
THE PLIGHT OF A SHAG.
The cry of a shag Toft a lonely pear,
Plaintive and sad, as he sitteth up
there,
Ah, how like a storm-driven migraut
is he,
A wandering alone from tree to tree.
Would that he was kind and virtuous
and good,
But oft cursed he is to melancholy
and mood,
And oh, the sorrow of heart to find.
Oneself akin with a bird in trouble
and mind.
R.G.: A bit too fiittery and
flighty... .K.McK.: That’s a very
moth-eaten chestnut about the cook
—or grub-eaten, if moths don’t eat
chestnuts S.M.: As you say,
you’re an amateur... .F.H.F.:
There seems to be a great many
bees buzzing about this spring
M.J.S.: A very noisy earthquake.
.. ..E.J.0.: No genuine poet has
ever made use of the Pearly Gates.


THE HOLLIDAY'S
New Recordings
“I wish I could discover an oil-well !”
Sunshine and Strings
In Glorious Italy ! In High
Fidelity (Coronet KLP 803)
there are 12 tracks of sunshine
and smoothness sitting on the
polyvinyl, inside a jacket with
a very nice picture: sunrise
on the Grand Canal, and a
gondolier steering into the
band of gold shimmering on
the water. The orchestra and
chorus are under the direction
of Dino Martinelli.
And you do get a few watery
effects, as in “Souvenir d’ltalie,”
with harp and flute showering
raindrops. In “Summertime in
Venice,” competing with a
beat, there are a couple of
breaks for something that
sounds like a loudish-out-of-
tune piano, or a jazzed-up
guitar of some sort, or a cross
between the two.
“Funiculi, Funicula,” that
exceedingly merry tune, really
sparkles in Martinelli’s hands ;
and now and then, as in
“Souvenir d’ltalie” and “Arrive-
derci Roma,” smooth voices
appear and skid around in a
subdued unison, like people in
a coffee-lounge humming the
title-tune of a picture they’ve
been to see.
Well, if it comes to that, you
could put this record on after
a night at the pictures—a sort
of heady nightcap. But its
chief use would probably be
either as a “backgrounder”—
ideal for when friends drop-in
—or as a party-disk ; particu-
larly the latter, for the
melodies are liable to provoke
unrestrained ■ humming and
whistling (or both). In short,
it’s an ideal social disk.
On the second side the
peculiar guitar-piano jangles
through “Guaglione,” and
“La Montanara” is very
pleasant and contemplative,
with a pastel .oboe declaiming
in the foreground. But here the
voices in the background are
a bit too gentle ; which, to the
purist, is a great pity, for it
sounds like three- or even four-
part harmony.
In “Marechiare” you find un-
usual contrasts both in tempo
and instrumentation: a slow
guitary introduction, followed
by a delicious pavane-like bit
for strings—but not, like a
classical pavane, outstanding
in quiet beauty—then another
guitar section, then a change
in tempo to a brisk trot.
“Chitarra Romana” has swirl-
ing in the ’cellos
and basses and some spiky
pizzicato playing; and the
final 'number, “Souvenir
d’ltalie,” repeats the sentiment
and melody of the opening
number.
It’s all very pleasant listen-
ing, heightened by the clarity
of the recording; and the
playing throughout is miles
fresher than the canals in
Venice are said to be.
Another Day
Among the lasses who have
brightened Hollywood light
musicals in the past few years
Doris Day takes a lot of beat-
ing. She’s easy to look at
and easy to listen to —the two
seldom go together in Ameri-
can films*—and she’s able to
convey the general idea that
she’s of the feminine gender
without trying to look like
Jayne Mansfield attempting to
out-Monroe Sabrina.
When it comes to recording,
judging by the catalogues,
Doris is a natural. Stand her
up with a band-leader and an
orchestra, put a microphone
nose-high in front of her and
she’ll tell it songs until both
sides of the disk are full. She
has recorded one batch with
the Harry James orchestra;
two with Paul Weston’s.
Frank de Vol’s boys seem to
have hit the jackpot, though.
They’ve provided the strum-
ming and blowing for two
satchelfuls of Doris Day warb-
lings—and now up comes a
third. Cuttin’ Capers (Coronet
KLP 797) carries a dozen old
and newish favorites, going
back to “Makin’ Whoopee”
(didn't Eddie Cantor make it
about 30 years ago?) and
(possibly further still) “Get Out
and Get Under the Moon.”
Coming closer to the present
day are the name-piece, “Cuttin’
Capers,” “Fit as a Fiddle” and
“Let’s Take a Walk Around
the Block.” But, new or old,
Doris sings ’em with tuneful
zest and —a rare thing among
pop-singers—an enunciation
that gains by not losing a word.
♦♦♦ ❖
Two 45’s
In Rawhide (Coronet KS-
-33 4; Frankie Laine, backed
by Jimmy Carroll and his
orchestra) you hear:
Rollin’
Rollin’
Rollin’
Rollin’
Raw-hi-i-i-de!
Just keep those dogies
rollin’! It’s Frankie in the
sort of thing he does best: the
crisp and hot-beated type of
song. This one owes some-
thing to folk-music. In “A
Cottage For Sale,” on the
reverse, Frankie switches to a
Sinatra-type special: a se-
quentially-built bit of senti-
ment.
On KS-347 Mitch Miller, the
Sing-Along Chorus and the
Flower Drum Kids sing “This
Here Goat,” a brisk piece bel-
ligerently sung by a male
chorus alternating with, pre-
sumably, the Sing-Along
Chorus and the Flower Drum
Kids ; at any rate, the men
beef-out a line, which is echoed
by a light-voiced chorus. A
catchy tune and mildly funny
words.
On the reverse the Flower
Drum Kids have a rest, but
Mitch and the Sing-Along
Chorus are there. This one is
“Holiday For Lovers,” from
the film of that name. Seems
to be all right; nothing
startling about it, and possibly
a bit labored vocally.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
There was no need to “coax” summer
at the weekend —it came out boldly, and
gladdened Sydney’s heart. Girls appeared
in a twinkling in their prettiest cottons
(exceptionally attractive this year) and
the season of sunburn, surf and sand is
with us, it seems. The Waratah Festival
ended with a procession ; a grand display
that compensated those who had waited
for it up to two hours in their picked
kerb-positions. It included, as well as
flower-decked floats that would hold
their own in any Mardi Gras Festival
in the world, squads of precision-trained
marching-girls. Some came from S.A.
and Victoria, others from local organisa-
tions, and they had a most enthusiastic
reception.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was a glorious time for admiring
the view from Loreto Convent at Kirri-
billi when a garden-party brought
together there inter-State delegates to
the first conference of the Loreto
Federation of Australia (which opened
.last week in Sydney), its local members,
“old girls” and their families. The Gover-
nor, Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady
Woodward, were guests-of-honor and
were received by federation-president
Mrs. Tom Bateman, assisted by her hus-
band, Dr. Bateman. Lady Woodward
wore a silk dress in tonings of lime-
green and grey ; Mrs. Bateman, butler-
cup-yellow silk, with dainty embroidered
Swiss organdie fichu, and a hat of white
silk-roses. Her sister, Mrs. Bing Moly-
neaux, from Melbourne for the con-
ference, was in a slim frock of printed
silk, floral-patterned with cumquats, and
a cloche of the same mellow tonings.
The motto of the conference was
“Awareness-Preparedness,” and discus-
sions on the papers presented showed
its members really living up to it. Many
of them are university-graduates, quite a
sprinkling in the legal profession, some
businesswomen and others whose families
are young and still their main respon-
sibility. Mrs. Bateman has had experi-
ence both as mother and solicitor. There
was topical interest in the paper by
Ballarat on marriage-guidance, and an
interesting point was raised in the dis-
cussion on culture, when the theme of
“The Doll” was deplored. Among dele-
gates were Mrs. Bryan Rofe, Miss Biddy
Rice-North, Miss Margaret Murray, Miss
J. Holland and Mrs. A. P. Walsh, all of
S.A.; Mrs. John Dynon (Melbourne);
Miss Joyce Fullagher (Brisbane). Local
members included Mrs. J. S. Coolahan,
the federation’s hon. secretary ; Mrs.
John Bowyer ; Miss Eileen Crews ; Mrs.
Tully (president of Loreto Normanhurst
Ex-students’ Association); and Lady
Cross, f
The little English village of High
Wycombe, in Buckinghamshire, will
soon be welcoming home Lord and Lady
Carrington, who sailed from Sydney on
Saturday after a crowded round of fare-
wells and speeches, in which a sincere
regret at their departure was the main
theme. Their High Wycombe home is
a few miles from the village, which has
leafy lanes and lilacs and a bus which
meanders leisurely around its bends.
The Royal Commonwealth Society,
Royal Overseas League and the Victoria
League combined their farewell-party in
Sydney to the popular couple. Lord
Carrington made a speech which was a
gem of friendliness and plain-speaking,
and gave a sly dig at having learned some
of our ways, one the habit of having
“beer with our tea.”
Mary Cullen, of Randwick, with pro-
vocative dimples at the ready, will play
Laurey in the Sydney Light Opera Coin-
pony’s production of “Oklahoma,” to be
staged at the Orpheum Theatre, Cre-
morne, on October 14, 15 and 16, to aid
funds of All Saints’ Hospital, Mosman.
Since the company was formed in 1956
it has raised more than £2000 for this
objective, and has given its patrons an
enjoyable and wide variety of light-opera
and musicals. Director of production
is Lindsay Bird. Photograph by Falk.
Hunches and omens, numerology and
stars, symbols and colors are still popu-
lar ways of picking winners even by
regular and form-conscious racegoers.
Rabbits’-paws are out of fashion, per-
haps, but there is always an element of
superstition that won’t be fought-down
in most punters. Like the woman who
had a thought-wave about ancient Egypt
when a tall golden hat suggested the
beautiful Queen Nefertiti’s headdress;
finding an outsider at Randwick whose
breeding brought in the Nile and golden
chariots, she later collected winnings at
wonderfully long odds! A coincidence
is that a statuette of the Egyptian queen
is the “Oscar” award to the wearer of
the loveliest hat selected by millinery
experts at the Spring Meeting of the
AJ.C.
Thoroughly enjoying the whirl of
gaiety was Jane Lindsay, of Cucumgilliga,
Cowra ; as well as race-week festivities
she also went to three weddings, one as a
bridesmaid to Judy Kater, of Trangie,
when she married Michael Foster, of
Cootamundra. Jane looked attractive at
the races in bone linen-mesh dress and
matching cloche.
* * ☆
The luminous effect of sunlight on a
greeny-blue sea shining into an under-
water cavern has been caught by artist
Margaret Coen in a watercolor painted
on silk. “Sea Garden” is the title, and
vivid sea-anemones, striped tropical-fish
and gleaming shells make it one of the
most delightful works in her exhibition,
which opened at the Forum Club last
week. In his opening speech, Mr. M. H.
Ellis praised the courage of the artist
in pioneering this form of art here, and
described how Eastern artists had used
silk for their paintings for nearly 1000
years and found it enduring and very
worth while. Playwright and poet Douglas
Stewart, husband of the artist, and their
daughter, Meg, were at the opening ; and
among those who found difficulty in
making a favorite choice from the paint-
ings, which include flower-studies, sea-
scapes and landscapes, were Mrs. Ellis,
Rosemary Dobson, Dora Jarrett* Mrs.
R. D. Fitzgerald, Mrs. John Davoren,
Mrs. M. A. Scully, Mrs. C. M. Coen,
Mrs. J. R. Coen and Miss Sheila
McDermott
if- V
One of the largest and most interesting
art-collections is at Anthony Hordern’s
until November 2; arranged by the
Watson’s Bay Wharf Art Exhibition as a
spring art-festival, with proceeds to
benefit Royal N.S.W. Institution for Deaf
and Blind Children, it includes paintings
from the U.S., France, Spain, Italy, New
Zealand, Germany and all over Aus-
tralia. For the first time paintings by
Pietro Annigoni (who painted the Queen)
and American Ester Seymour Stevenson
will be shown. Norman Lindsay, William
Dargie, Hans Heysen and other famous
Australian artists are also represented.
After an official opening on October 13
at 8 p.m. by Lieut.-General Sir John
Northcott, the exhibition is free to the
public, and all paintings exhibited are for
sale.
☆ * ☆
Hardy Amies was very frank when this
Letter nailed him in conversation about
his ideal woman; he could never be
interested in a woman he couldn’t.“dress,”
he explained. But he did seem to be
hankering for the unattainable when he
enlarged on the theme. She should be
about sft. Bin. high; dress like a model


and cook like an experienced housewife
(French, perhaps), yet have an ability to
converse intelligently and hold her own.
in brilliant and witty dialogue.
MELBOURNE
Floral Fiesta Week came and went in
a blaze of sunshine. The Town Hall
sported a large floral map of Australia ;
strolling musicians entertained passers-by
and a large flower-decorated float carried
other musicians around to dispense sweet
concord. A Princess of Flowers daily
traversed the city in her gaily-decorated
car surrounded with masses of flowers.
There were flower-trimmed stalls from
which goods were sold to help various
organisations which assist children.
Members of the “My Fair Lady” cast
dressed in Eliza Dolittle costumes sold
posies to help the Victorian School for
Deaf Children. Floral Fiesta Week was
the first of its kind in this city, and its
success augurs well.
# V V
When she entertained the wives of city
councillors at an afternoon-party in her
private sitting-room at the Town Hall,
the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Evans,
wore a coat-and-frock ensemble in black-
and-bronze brocaded-faille and a fas-
cinator of chenille-spotted tulle. Also
at the party were her daughter, Mrs.
Louis Sallman (who topped her light-
beige linen suit with a small turquoise-
blue flower-trimmed hat), and her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Ronald Evans
(whose Princess-line, sky-blue frock was
worn with a white ribbon-curvette).
Among the guests were Mrs. J. F. Daley
(who added to her sand-beige shantung
jacket-suit a small sailor-hat in matching
straw); Lady Thomas, a former Lady
Mayoress (attractive in coral-red jacket-
suit and small beige hat banded in red
ribbon) ; Mrs. W. J. Kilpatrick (she and
her husband, Cr. Kilpatrick, will spend
Christmas with their married daughter,
Mrs. W. D. King, in the U.S.); Mrs.
Douglas Cox, Mrs. Alex Bottomley, Mrs.
L. Reichstein, Mrs. R. Solly and Mrs.
Fred Hardy.
* a *
The newest in Ban-Lon fabrics was
shown ip a parade of high-fashion frocks
and gowns in the Orchid Room of
Chevron Hotel. There were birds-eye
kni(s, corduroys, suede-jerseys, crepes
and brocades. Hall Ludlow made an eye-
catching casual outfit in a green cable-
overlay Ban-Lon. Magg, of Toorak, used
suede-jersey for two afternoon-frocks ;
one in hot-pink, the other in soft-beige.
A smart cocktail-suit in black suede-
jersey, with a complementary white-
crepe blouse embroidered in crystals,
was Madam Melville’s contribution.
From the English Lace Company, of
Nottingham, came a party-dress in white
lace'; Jean Allen, of London, was
represented by a short evening-dress in
citrus-green lace. A three-piece casual
outfit, comprising shorts, bra-top and
short coat, was designed by Norma Tullo
in wine-toned birds-eye.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guest-speaker at the Victoria League’s
monthly at-home was artist William
Dargie, who has just returned from a
portrait-painting trip to New Zealand.
Vice-president Mrs. B. Hamilton received
the 120 guests, among whom were Mr.
and Mrs. A. Kennedy White (Christ-
church, N.Z.); Mrs. Nel Maine
(Auckland, N.Z.) and her hostess Mrs.
Harold Flett, who was accompanied by
her daughter, Scarth Flett ; Mrs. J. O.
Kidman (Adelaide); Mrs. F. Hobill Cole,
Mrs. John Colquhoun, Mrs. Hellier
Evans, Madame Reschid Bey and Miss
Annie Danks.
Moira Carleton will play the role of
Nell Palmer in “Hot Summer Night,”
which will have its Australian premiere
at the Little Theatre on October 23. The
Governor and Lady Brooks will be in the
audience, and proceeds are in aid of the
Victoria League. Well known for her
work in radio and television and on the
professional stage, Moira was last seen
in “The Silver Whistle,” at the Little
Theatre, and she is at present rehearsing
for the TV production of “Fled Kelly.”
Tickets for the gala-premiere of “Hot
Summer Night” may be obtained from
the Victoria League, 167 Collins Street,
or by phoning MF 2918. Photo by John
Warlow.
When the Australian-Asian Associa-
tion gave a luncheon at Ciro’s in honor
of Dr. Tran Din De, Royal gynaecologist
from South Vietnam, members decorated
individual tables with Victorian posies
of pink azaleas, roses, carnations and
tulips. Dr. Tran Din De is visiting Mel-
bourne under the Colombo Plan. Asian
students were among more than 100
guests received by the president, Sir
Charles Lowe, who was accompanied by
Lady Lowe. Also in the official party
were University Chancellor Mr. Justice
Dean and Mrs. Dean; Professor L.
Townsend ; and Mr. and Mrs. J. R. C.
Taylor. Others who attended this delight-
ful function were Sir Frank and Lady
Selleck, Sir Albert and Lady Coates,
Philippines Consul G. C. Molyneux and
his wife, Mr. Newman Rosenthal, Dr.
and Mrs. Ray Shatin, Mr. and Mrs. John
Dynon and Mr. and Mrs. R. T. Breen.
V V *
The Embers, in South Yarra, was the
setting for a late-afternoon party given
by Chinese Consul K. Y. Leung and
Mrs. Leung to celebrate the Republic’s
National Day. The hostess wore a
national-costume of white satin
embroidered with clusters of red roses.
Assisting the Consul and his wife were
Vice-Consul H. Y. Liu and Mrs. Liu
(her costume of black satin was
embroidered in an all-over design of
tiny rhinestones). Among the guests
were the Minister for Housing (Mr.
Petty), who represented the Premier ; the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress ; U.S.
Consul-General Graham Hall; the Con-
sul for Monaco, Mr. Michael Niall, and
Mrs. Niall; Thai Consul H. I. Fader
and Mrs. Fader ; Mr. and Mrs. Stanley
Ridley; Sir Robert and Lady Knox;
Sir Clifden and Lady Eager ; Sir Charles
Lowe; University Chancellor Mr.
Justice Dean and Mrs. Dean ; Mr. and
Mrs. John Reilly; Professor and Mrs.
Maurice Belz ; Lady Bridgford ; Dr. and
Mrs. Arnold Richardson ; Mr. and Mrs.
T. K. Chan ; Mr. and Mrs. C. T. Tsiang ;
and Mr. Wing Dan.
* ☆ ☆
Mrs. L. R. Buxton is once again
president of the committee organising a
dinner-dance on Moonee Valley Cup
Night (October 24) in the Myer Mural
Hall. On the committee are well-known
doctors (the function will aid St. Vincent’s
Hospital). A donation of £2 17s. 6d. is
asked from each person attending. Reser-
vations may be made by enclosing a
cheque to the Organisers, St. Vincent’s
Hospital, Fitzroy. As seating accommo-
dation is limited, early reservation is
advisable.
* ☆ ☆
There was an original touch to the
party arranged by Mr. and Mrs. Richard
Frank to assist the funds of Campaign
Young Citizen (organised to form clubs
for the youth of this city). On arrival
guests were met by Mrs. Frank and
other hostesses, who wore lovely saris.
Girl students here under the Colombo
Plan performed Indian dances, and the
dinner, consisting of Indian food, was
taken by the guests sitting on cushions
on the floor, on which was a tablecloth
scattered with pink camellias. Mrs.
Frank’s sari was of black-silk trimmed
with beaten silver ; Mrs. Tamara Kiven s
was white spotted in gold ; Mrs. Eric
Stimer’s gold-embroidered sapphire-blue
taffeta ; Mrs. Michael Stransky’s white
tissue embroidered in tiny cherries ; and
Mrs. Bobby Neeter's sky-blue silk
bordered in black-silk and featuring a
flower-design. Guests included the chair-
man of the appeal, Dr. Louis Joel, and
Mrs. Joel, and the assistant-director of
the appeal, Mrs. M. Riches.


directly from life with a pleasant
rumble of traffic —
Far through the billowing leafage
of the park
The vile, old, growing, garrulous
City lifts
The burden of his toiling, trampled
rhyme . . .
and the more ’Ninetyish poems, as in
the tribute to Hugh McCrae, have
moments of felicity that almost spring
clear of the period and anyhow remain
attractive: —
So, when he takes the satyr’s pipe
to play
I see the flash of snow-white girls
that fly
Before the eternal fauns, I hear
their cry . . .
The most pleasing thing about the
book, though—or. rather, the second
most-pleasing thing; for the first is his
own wood-engravings, which decorate
it—is that, as a poet. Lionel Lindsay
is clearly improving. The collection
ends with a set of twelve sonnets trans-
lated from the French of Jose-Maria
de Heredia, and these translations,
which were made as recently as 1957
and 1958, are often quite admirable.
Lionel Lindsay has obviously found
Heredia’s Parnassian moods and
imagery sympathetic, and the disci-
pline of translation has considerably
refined his technique. Here, for
example, is the sestet of “Flight of the
Centaurs”: —-
At times one of the fugitive savage
pack
Suddenly rears and, turning, glances
back:
Then with a bound regains the herd
that flees,
For he has seen the full moon’s
dazzling beam
Throw ever nearer Horror’s shape
supreme,
The mighty shadow of great
Hercules.
Printed by John Gartner at the
Hawthorn Press, the book is published
in a limited edition of 350 copies, of
which 50, signed by the author, are
on hand-made paper and have the
engravings hand-printed on Japanese
paper.
Modern Chinese Art
If there is a moral to be drawn from
Michael Sullivan’s Chinese Art in the
20th Century (Faber) it is the familiar
and obvious one that Communism
must be a very great nuisance to the
artist.
Since 1950, says Sullivan, painters,
poets and musicians have been under
the absolute ideological control of the
Chinese Communist party. Mao Tse-
tung told the artists what they must
do. To make art “a powerful weapon
for uniting and educating the people
and for attacking and annihilating the
enemy.” they were to make the masses
understand them, to become part of
the masses themselves and “to undergo
a long and even painful process of
steeling.”
What this long and painful process
meant in practice is described by a
Chinese journalist on the staff of the
“China Weekly - Review,” who
inspected the students at work in the
National College of Fine Arts in
Hangchow. The day’s work began at
4 a.m., when they were awakened by
bells. They ate a bowl of rice, then
gathered in the playground to wait for
the trucks that were to take them to
the farms and factories. While they
waited they sang a little song, touch-
ingly like the ditty of the seven dwarfs
in Disney’s film —“Heigh-ho, heigh-ho,
and off to work we go”—
Why should we go to the farms?
Why should we go to the factories?
We educated people want to reform
ourselves,
We must live and work with the
working-class.
Hey!
We must live and work with the
working-class.
And thus they drove off to the farms
and factories, studied the workers and
drew them in realistic oil-paintings
(one of which, reproduced here, is
quite striking in its photographic
accuracy) and in fearsome cartoons
and wood-engravings imitated from
Russian industrial art.
“Almost without exception,” says
Sullivan, “these works are painstaking,
insensitive and dull, completely lack-
ing in the traditional Chinese aesthetic
virtue of rhythmic vitality.” The
Chinese themselves were not satisfied
with them, and, as the first absurd
ardor of the revolutionaries faded a
little, the Report of the Ministry of
Cultural Affairs (1953) was able to
announce: “We have changed our
arbitrary administrative way of assign-
ing the production of works of art; we
have modified our rude manners to art
workers.” But, apart from the fact
that pictures are apparently no longer
assigned to groups of artists like piece-
work in a factory, it is too soon, Sulli-
van says, to ascertain whether there
has been any real relaxation pf the
State’s grip' upon the artist; “Indeed
in Communist China as in Soviet
Russia, official policy oscillates with
such rapidity that predictions made on
the basis of any single pronouncement
are generally worthless.”
While the Chinese are anxious to
proclaim abroad, he says, that they are
now fostering their traditional tech-
niques, the fact is that selection for
reproduction abroad is limited to a
very small group of artists. One of
them is Ch’i Pai-shih. who “to the age
of 96 serenely went on painting his
crabs and shrimps, every now and
then pausing to sign a peace-
manifesto or to produce another in a
curious series of paintings in which the
peace-movement is celebrated in terms
of Picasso’s dove, translated into
liquid washes and set about with a
riot of deftly-painted flowers.” But
Ch’i Pai-shih’s real claim to official
consideration may simply have been
that he was a carpenter, a man of the
people.
It is certain, at any rate, that the
Communist Government is now most
anxiously preserving and fostering an
interest in the great artistic achieve-
ments of the past (on the misleading
but nevertheless useful assumption
that they were produced by and for
“the people”); and this leads Sullivan
to the hope that the art of the future
will similarly emerge through Com-
munism to a continuation of the tradi-
tion.
So that the basic problem of the
artist in China is not, in the long run,
how to cope with Communism but how
to cope with that invasion of Western
techniques which, however unavoid-
able and however profitable it may in
the end turn out. is everywhere throw-
ing the arts of the East into confusion.
It is hardly true to say. as Herbert
Read does in his introduction, that
Western abstract art, with “the quality
of --ku-fu yung-pi,” is now equivalent
to the ancient Chinese calligraphy-
abstract art, however much ku-fu
yung-pi it may have, is not calligraphy,
which served a practical purpose—but
it does seem true that, as Sullivan
says, Chinese art is now inevitably
moving the opposite way from Wes-
tern abstraction. “There is—apart
from a few feeble and insignificant
imitations —no cubist or abstract art
in modern China.... They are
absorbed in the world of reality, and
in exploring the techniques of pictorial
representation.”
Sullivan gives a fascinating account
of this infiltration of Western tech-
niques into China —the first absorption
of Impressionist ideas via Japan; the
Chinese expatriates who lived in Paris
and painted in imitation of Matisse;
the pioneers of modernism who came
back to China in 1926 and so startled
the nation by painting from the nude
model that General Sun Ch’uan-fang
threatened to close the school and
arrest the painters if the practice did
not cease; the arrival of Communism
and Social Realism. And, indeed* with


its long historical survey, its biographi-
cal index of nearly 200 20th-century
artists, and its 68 reproductions, four
of them in color, the whole book is
interesting. It is, say the publishers,
the first comprehensive survey of
modern Chinese art to be published in
any language.
The N.Z. Short Story
That the N.Z. short story is still
developing with art and truth is
strongly marked in three collections
recently published under the sponsor-
ship of the State Literary Fund. One
of the writers who has found an
intelligent balance between experiment
and tradition is O. E. Middleton in
his just-published The Stone and
Other Stories (Paul’s Book Arcade).
Reading these stories is like sitting
in a quiet room at night, or in an open
field. The ear registers clear and
distinct, no matter how tiny the move-
ment. The words are simple and deftly
arranged so that a picture is immedi-
ately revealed as in this opening para-
graph of the story “A Bit of Lad
Luck”:—
Mr. Larsen’s place was up one
of the side-roads in the Awakino
Valley. He had no woman to look
after him, but lived all alone in a
small shack not far from the shed
where he milked his thirty-odd cows.
There were few homesteads in the
area then. Roads were not good
and there was not much money
about. But there were plenty of
trout and eels in the Awakino, and
there were hares on the valley flats
in the surrounding bush.
Like a boy in another yarn. “The
Stone,” Middleton is. after the fashion
of Hazlitt, a seeker after truth. That
he often finds it the hard way. is plain
from the clinical directness of the final
story of the collection, “A Married
Man.”
How different, though none-the-less
faithful, is David McLeod in his stories
The Tall Tussock (Whitcombe and
Tombs, Ltd.). - Although there is often
snow in the N.Z. high country, and
the winds keen, the mind of the
observer is warmer to life. In these
tales we are with the musterers and
the shepherds, and we hear them in their
yarns and their raillery as faithfully
as from a tape-recorder. A note of
sadness may stem from the fact that
the author, along with the “Bush
Bastards” to whom the stories are
dedicated, realises that having “buried
their hearts in a ferny hill,” they now
stand like a stag at bay, scenting the
plane and the motor-car challenging
their “glorious isolation.” In a measure
this sadness may also account for the
art in the stories. They have
atmosphere, plot and substance,
notably so in the unforgettable yarn
“Hamish Grant.”
Completing this survey is Helen
Shaw’s The Orange Tree (Pelorus
Press), published some months
earlier. More in traditional style but
still perceptive, these stories give a
picture of an older world fast fading:
the domestic scene of the small New
Zealand town, a glimpse of a Maori or
two — all faithfully done. They
reminded me of a cluster of diamonds,
opals or garnets in an old-fashioned
brooch.
Pat Lawlor.
A provisional list of corrections of
the Miller and Macartney Australian
Literature book has been printed on
a page-size sheet convenient as an
inset, and can be obtained gratis by
sending a postage stamp to Frederick
T. Macartney. 66 Stanley Street, Black
Rock, Victoria.
EYRE ALL ALONE
Two extracts from a long poem
BANKSIA
History, wasted and decadent pack-horse
Munching a handful of chaff, dry old
national motives,
Shambles skinny and bony into the final
push,
Picking up, putting down his heavy tune-
less hooves
Girt with rusted iron, so tenderly.
Baxter is dead. Wylie, can you hear the
Sound?
/ hear large agnostic ribaldries of an
ocean.
Evening in muffler creeps towards epic
adventure,
To lull the blazing colossi of a blindness.
But suns will rock in my sleep, maul the
moth-eaten pockets
Of memory for a few counterfeit coppers
To thump on the counters of stalls in a
looted market.
Wylie, what can you see ?
I see a flower.
Turn the horses loose. Our of earth a
power:
Banksia, honeysuckle, forked lightning-
fruit of pain.
Motive pierces■ the cloud-scrub once
again.
Swimming oversea, underfoot, the
brawny light
Sings savor of thus unique approaching
night.
Stolid elation of a single star.
Banksia, carry fire, like the thurifer
Over my sandy tongue-tied barren
ground.
Wylie, what do you hear ?
I hear th,e Sound.
THE SOUND
The final days, with grey straight lines
of rain,
A geometry ruling without angle or
curve
The scourged eyeball. But these outlines
of mountains.
Shape of the breast, of the ranges back
of the Sound :
These would pick expedient pockets of
eyeball and soul.
So look hard at horses, goods, firearms,
spare a glance
To the honest countryside under your
foot and about you
—Snug wet sands and the petty bloodless
tree.
Adelaide, my great expedition ; Baxter,
I am calling.
And another night of the grey unrelent-
ing straight lines.
We struggle through the last ditch <l/ the
King's River.
Outside Albany a swarm of Wylie’s
tribesmen
Gather him up; he is taken back to
earth,
He is growth, he is a gallant tree in
flower,
He is unbound geometries of the good
soil.
Looking down, or up, at the town from
the brow of this hill
I am truly alone. And hardly visible now
The straight grey lines. / am coming,
I am rainfall,
And all doors are closed and stilled the
merrymaking.
One year on the march, an epoch, all
my life.
But their faces will be golden when the
doors open.
Their dress shining. My torn stinking
shirt, my boots,
And hair a tangle of scrub; the long
knotted absurd beard
That is my conscience grown in the
desert country.
How shall / face their golden faces, pure
voices ?
O my expedition : Baxter, Wylie !
But the rain has stopped. On the main
road someone moves.
ENGLAND.
FRANCIS WEBB.


rmujiLunm’s
o
o
'2P
McWilliam’s Cream Sherry is a specially selected
sweet sherry. It is rich, mild and mellow with a
smooth creamy body that is perfectly balanced to
give you new enjoyment. McWilliam’s Cream Sherry
is so versatile you can serve it anytime . . . before
and during dinner ... at bridge afternoons or
supper . . . and, in fact, whenever friends drop in.
(eft
ILL) Pi i/a - is
o
W| luam
pT y
WINES
hanwood '
pint 6 F>-
**114.
OZ- S
NETT
€
Me WILLIAM’S
CREAM SIIERRY —THE CREAM OF CREAM SHERRIES
