

CHRISTMAS NUMBER
The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 9, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
llegistered in Australia for I ransniission by post as a newspaper.
RED SETTERS
These two Red Setters, Dolf and Michael, father
and son, were well-known identities at Duntry-
league [Orange (N.S.W.) Golf Club] during
World War 11. Dolf was named after Dr.
Dolfuss, one of Hitler’s early victims. Dolf fell
victim to a farmer’s shotgun. When Duntryleague
became a Red Cross convalescent-home during
the war Michael took charge of any group of
servicemen walking into Orange, and had
drink for drink with them at the Standard Hotel.
He would then lead them back to Duntry-
league.


CATHOLIC EDUCATION IN
AUSTRALIA, 1806-1950
Brother Ronald Fogarty, F.M.S.
A full history of denominational education in
Australia in the nineteenth century, including
the momentous consequences of the decision
to develop Catholic education under the
religious oiders.
“An indispensable contribution to the history
of educational theory and practice."—
Advocate (Melb.).
Royal Bvo, 2 vols., illust., £5.
CHURCH AND STATE IN ITALY,
1947-1957
Leicester C. Webb
“An excellent and impartial job . . . another
essential vcde mecum for students of modern
Italian affairs.” —International Affairs.
Demy Bvo, paper, 72 pages, 816.
THE MELBOURNE SCENE,
1803-1956
J. Grant and G. Serle
Two hundred contemporary extracts, 59 half-
tone illustrations, and 4 colour plates.
“Brings Melbourne more vividly to life than
any novel or history, or book of reminiscences
I have read ... a very fine piece of book
production.”—rßussel Ward, in Meanjhi.
Demy Bvo, 308 pages, 42j-.
SETTLERS AND CONVICTS
Recollections of Sixteeri Years’ Labour in the
Australian Backwoods by an Emigrant
Mechanic.
“His observations have the stamp of truth . . .
he had clear eyes, an honest mind, and an
instinct for the right phrase that almost
amounts to a style.”—Vance Palmer.
Demy Bvo, 277 pages, illust., 18/6.
From all recognised booksellers.
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
Parkville N. 2 and 369 Lonsdale Street, C.l, Victoria.
BOOK H IIX TE R, Box 2G71. G.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
LOVE IN THE BUSH
Wrapped in an entirely inappropri-
ate reproduction of Drysdale's well-
known painting of children dancing in
the desert —the children in this book
dance in the much more fertile country-
side of New England—Gerard Hamil-
ton’s Summer Glare (Ure Smith Pty.,
Ltd.) is an Australian novel with
unusual claims to attention.
It may get some notoriety because
it is all about love in a country
town, and the love, especially
among the children, is described pretty
frankly; also there is some fairly strong
language in it. But it has exceptional
literary as well as sensational qualities;
and as to the language, this reviewer
is quite prepared to accept the narra-
tor’s assurance that he hasn’t repro-
duced the country dialogue in anything
like its full “impermissible vividness”;
and what he has set down is not
indecent but earthy. And as to the
love, adult readers should be able to
face the facts of life.
It is a book that moves on two
levels, the first realistic and amusing,
the second tragic and ambitious.
On the first level it is wholly success-
ful. Here, with the emphasis on love-
making. is a rich, vigorous, comic,
thoroughly convincing picture of life
in and around a small Australian
country town. It is an evocation of
boyhood, carrying on through adoles-
cence to early manhood, which com-
presses into one volume much the same
material as Norman Lindsay has used
in “Saturdee,” “Halfway to Any-
where” and “Redheap”; and, though
its aims are more “serious” and it lacks
the abounding gusto and humor which
combine to make Lindsay immortal,
it is in fact the best Australian small-
town novel this reviewer has read since
“Redheap” —which, by a coincidence,
has simultaneously been reprinted by
the same publisher.
The racy dialogue, whether of small
boys talking their argot or the house-
maid who says “Look at them dirty
feet. Gracious, yer can’t go to bed
with them but”; the fishing and swim-
ming in the creek; the rabbit-shooting
by night; the tree-climbing and the
treasure-hunting; the rows at school;
the first drinks and the first cigarettes;
the absurd legend about how Shannon's
Flat got its name from the old
bullocky; the parties and the dancing
and the drinking as boyhood develops
into adolescence; the scandal and the
gossip; the mixture of crudity and
tenderness in the love-affairs which
are the incessant preoccupation of the
young—all this is as authentic as it
is vivid.
On the other level, as imaginative
drama, the novel is not so successful.
Telling, essentially, the long-drawn
love-story of the narrator, Ken Collins,
and Dookie, his childhood sweetheart,
it drags at times as it goes along; and
at the end, when Dookie marries a
bigamist and Ken renews his affair
with her in love and disgust and hatred
until he smashes her up in a motor-
accident (and does ten years for man-
slaughter), it becomes contrived and
unreal. To succeed here, as a great
and tragic love-story, it would have had
to reach the level of “Wuthering
Heights”; as it is, though with moments
of power and tenderness, it is almost
down to magazine-level.
The trouble is not so much that the
sordid renewal of the love-affair—
though it takes a bit of swallowing—
is impossible but that, having Ken
Collins to tell the story in the first-
person, the author has not been able
to show firmly and convincingly what
kind of a character Ken is. So far as
he is displayed, an ordinary boy from
the bush, he does not seem likely to
rise to the heights demanded of him
to make the tragedy plausible.
But if there is a weakness here, and
a similar failure in the suicide of the
cripple, the portrait of Ken's quietly-
drunken father is both amusing and
moving, the portrait of Dookie, if a
little remote, very charming—the
young girl yearning for a wider life
than the small town can give her —
and altogether the novel remains
highly impressive. One of the best
things about it is that Gerard Hamilton,
having adopted the perilous first-
person method, has not used it to drag
everything down to the gutter, as so
many contemporary novelists do, but
has kept both tone and idiom naturally
and pleasantly Australian.
Simpson’s Europe
Colin Simpson’s new travel-book.
Wake Up in Europe (Angus and
Robertson), is mainly remarkable as
a record of establishing a record for
the astonishing number of places and
people one can see in five months.
Proceeding as one of Cook’s Indi-
vidual Inclusive Travellers, which
means that you say what you want to
do and Cooks fix it, he stopped-off to
see the sights in Bangkok and Beirut;
he honeycombed Italy, buying dinner
for the Guggenheim millionairess art-
collector in Venice, with whom he
talked about art and marriages, and
shouting a hot bath at his Venice hotel
for two Australian girl hikers who
hadn’t had one for three weeks, with
whom he talked about Angus and
Robertson’s, where one of them had
been a secretary; on Capri he teamed-
up with a beautiful girl in a bikini,
and she went to a rock-’n’-roll night-
club with him in scarlet slacks and a
chartreuse sweater and broke-up the
party early because she had to get the
Rome plane to London to meet her
fifteen-year-old son when he came
home from boarding-school.
In Paris he went to interview a new
coutouriere with Mary Hurlbut, of
(Continued on page 65)


VALUE MEASURED
THE USED TRUCK BUYING PLAN
THAT GIVES YOU WHAT YOU EXPECT
Yes! Now you can buy used trucks with the same confidence that you
buy new ones. I H Value Measured trucks are given a thorough test by
skilled mechanics. Each major component is tagged and on these tags the
condition of each part clearly shown. If reconditioning has been carried
out the value of work put into each part is itemised.
This means you can evaluate VM trucks at a glance, knowing that the
condition has been clearly and honestly stated. VM does what you would
like to do yourself when buying used vehicles if you had the time and
facilities. VM is an honest assessment and it can save you time, money and
worry. Combine I H and VM for the best in used trucks at surprisingly
low prices.
«9Mr
takes the
guesswork out of
used truck buying
m
m
sfer
H mmm
>y
•'•. .V-' :• :
vy': :; ::
USED TRUCKS
AT IH DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT3SO/36'


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Dec. 9, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4165
/
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
DEFENCE AND POLITICS
THE tendency of the age towards
A widespread mechanisation in
industry and towards luxury-living in
private life is apt to make the Aus-
tralian defence-effort appear at first
sight negligible.
But on the showing of the Defence
Plan for the next three years, Aus-
tralia has never had a better basic
defence, or a more effective plan for
expansion in time of war.
People are apt to forget Woomera
in the background of Australian
security and the fact that, for the first
time, owning what is a No. 1 target
in a global war, special external atten-
tion has been given to the safety and
preservation of that target from enemy
attack. This consideration no doubt
is reflected in the war-book of the
Pacific and South Asian defence-pacts.
As an outflanking base in World
War 11, Australia proved its value
and wrote its future in the strategy of
the civilised nations of the West.
Though electors and M.P.s expect
to hear stress laid on armies, navies
and air-forces in Government plans,
the main contribution that Australia
can make to the defence of the free
world is to organise and maintain
heavy-industry production-bases which
are truly self-contained and which can
begin to turn-out standardised war-
equipment for all kinds of allies in
an integrated war as soon as triggers
are set.
This the Commonwealth can do
on a scale inconceivable at the end of
World War I. Five years after its
end the ex-director of British National
Projectile Factories declared, as an
evidence of our advancement, that
B.H.P. could “probably” make 1001 b.
naval shells.
To stand on our own feet entirely
in war-industry would have seemed
nearly impossible at the beginning of
World War 11, though we ended that
war with a secondary industry suitable
for producing armaments and weapons
generally, not to mention a growth of
vehicle- and aircraft-construction which
most small countries, even adjacent
to the old-established armament-
producers, would have envied.
'TODAY there is no doubt about Aus-
A tralia’s advancement and high
priority in world-defence as a produc-
tion-area.
We are, of course, short on some
defence essentials —efficient modern
railway-transport with uniform gauge,
oil-supplies which do not need to be
carried from overseas, and an adequate
shipbuilding industry.
But at least the groundwork is there,
and it is an increasing advantage to
defence that with the growth of heavy
industry there also has come disper-
sion. This has its disadvantages in
adding to the numbers of vital areas
to be defended, and increases the need
for greater vehicle-capacity and better-
placed and stouter highways.
Except for the civil aerial establish-
ment, existing through the enterprise
of private visionaries like Sir Hudson
Fysh. Fergus McMaster and those who
have followed their line, transport is a
weak link in Australian defence. Our
needs call for more ports widely dis-
persed and fitted to carriage, in and
out, of raw materials and machinery,
troops and weapons; better-integrated
railway-systems; better distribution of
the sources of food-production; and a
wider training of the whole population
in what would be expected of it in
the event of war breaking-out.
I>RE VISION in which the whole
A people share is one of the most
important factors in defence, and it is
largely lacking or un-co-ordinated
because there seems to be a general
atmosphere in schools and in the unions
that it is almost sinful not to trust our
enemies and to believe that if any
nuclear-weapon-throwing goes on it
will never be started by the kindly
Russians or Chinese.
Such training in the understanding
of the problems of war should begin
in schools at a low level, and it is
heartening to notice that Governments
which hitherto have shamefully
neglected the cadet services have sud-
denly become imbued with a sense of
their importance.
This, however, is not enough. What
is called for is a careful training as
part of the so-called “social studies”
courses which the Leftists have suc-
ceeded in having substituted in
primary schools for the teaching of
history. There should be inculcated
in the mind of every adolescent Aus-
tralian the basic rules of defence in
time of emergency and the knowledge
of where his place or her place will
be in the war-time scheme of things.
No school hesitates to teach life-
saving practice as it concerns the water.
There seems to be no logical argu-
ment, in the face of the world threat
to peace and examples like those of
Indo-China, Northern India and
Hungary before our eyes, why citizens
should not be universally taught how
to look after themselves in war, pro-
vided the background is psychologically
right.
THERE can, however, be no efficient
A approach to the question of
national safety while Labor maintains
its present attitude that politics come
first and that even in time of war it
must refuse co-operation with other
parties and claim that “only Labor”
can save the country.
Its whole history in relation to
defence since the days before World
War I has been miserable, shameful
and opportunist.
In World War II the A.L.P. mem-
bers accepted half-heartedly the Gov-
ernment’s invitation to share in the
responsibilities of the War Council,
and then used the knowledge which
they thus gained in confidential coun-
sel to help destroy the Government.
Having opposed every step to
have defence established in New
Guinea, and having worked to save the
Communist party from the conse-
quences of its treachery and tolerated
that party’s plan to destroy Australian
war-industry for the benefit of Hitler
during and after the Battle of Britain,
Labor came into office at a time of
crisis.
Its members did their best to per-
suade the people that the Menzies
Government was anathema because it
had “done nothing” to protect the
Commonwealth. They took credit for
the large programme of war-industry
which the previous Government had
just got running before the change of
parties in office.
Then, as a piece of final perfidy and
dishonesty, some of them, headed by
Mr. Ward, tried to saddle the Menzies
Government with their own conception
of the “Brisbane Line.”
This bogy, about as genuine as the
Communist cry of “Pig-iron Bob,”
Mi*. Calwell has now revived to throw
at the Government as typifying the new
Three-year Plan.
It is singular that though the all-
party committee on the reform of the
Australian Constitution found itself
able to agree on the main points of a
scheme of reform, and that M.P.s are
usually nearly unanimous in the end
over rises in M.P,s’ salaries, \it has
never been possible to secure Labor’s
support for any plan of national
defence put forward by its opponents.
The Government might try to seek
agreement by forming an all-party
committee similar to that which dealt
with the Constitution. If Labor should
refuse to participate the public could
then draw its own conclusions.


CHRISTMAS DAY IN THE ARBITRATION-HOUSE
“They ALL want y’r Christmas-puddin’!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Realities in Indonesia
It would remarkable if the personality
of R. G. Menzies, who has been spending
six days in Indonesia, did not have an
impact on those who met him, though
there will be millions who won’t know
that he has been with them even after
his visit is over.
Of a total population of nearly 90
million about two-fifths are illiterate,
a large proportion are outside the influ-
ence of the central Government, and
most of the nearly-60-million who are
packed in Java into a fifteenth of the
total area of the republic are hungry and
rudderless, and made fanatic by rabble-
rousers.
In spite of the pressing domestic issues
of want and lack of civil order, noisy
leaders- have made the main issue in
politics the acquisition of West New
Guinea, which takes a distracting pre-
cedence over the provision of civilised
standards and amenities of living.
The issue was raised again by Gov-
ernment spokesmen while Mr. Menzies
was en route, and obviously has played
a greater part in discussions during the
visit than its real importance warrants.
It represents an absurd ambition when
|it is reckoned that Indonesia (apart
from Java) has most of the third- and
sixth-largest islands in the world, rela-
tively thinly populated, and cannot
populate them or even get them under
control.
Political parties have different reasons
for making the expulsion of the Dutch
from New Guinea, a central feature of
policy. “Colonialism” and “national-
ism” are the matches with which Moscow
lights the fires of Communism in Asia.
And Soekarno is ready to tackle any-
thing but the task of providing food and
unifying the opposing Communist and
Islamic sections and achieving civil unity
and democracy.
Though it calls itself a “republic,”
Indonesia is a military dictatorship in
which control and government are mere
thin formalities round its outer edges.
It is kept together by dint of tommy-gun
and bayonet, and the Army accepts
Soekarno and his opportunist associates
as titular heads only because there is
nobody else to accept, apart from the
Communists, who would soon have the
Red Army in Djakarta if given a chance
—probably on the ground of impending
aggression by the serried armies of
Canberra.
A lot of things Indonesian politicians
say have little significance.
When this is understood, and it is
appreciated that the Army is both the
real Government and the main barrier
against Communism, the policy of the
Australian Government is understand-
able. And it is perfectly logical, in the
face of political abuse and aggressive
threat, that the Commonwealth should
both do its best to conciliate the rank-
and-file of Indonesians by gifts under
the Colombo Plan and otherwise and
even by the training of officers of the
Army on Australian soil.
The need for martial law seems likely
to remain for so long that the trainees of
today might necessarily be the policy-
makers of Indonesia tomorrow.
The drift of power since the Army
took-over has been away from the Red
bloc, culminating in the expulsion of
the Chinese traders. This has produced
outraged feelings in Peking.
There seems no doubt that Mr. Menzies
will accelerate the pace of the westering
tide. If he has done something to seal
good relations with the de facto rulers of
Indonesia, which is a buffer-State vital
to Australian defence against attack from
Asia, his trip will have been worth while.
Especially if he can do an equally good
job in Singapore.
With the Malayan Federation de-
fended by Australian troops in part and
operating under a Constitution and land-
laws largely framed by Australians, the
visit to Malaya itself is in another
category.
The Seven Somethings
Seven is a number beloved of the myth-
makers. From history, legend and fable
we get the Seven Sleepers, the Seven
Sisters, the Seven Sages of Greece, the
Seven Champions of Christendom, the
Seven Wise Masters and the Seven
Wonders of the World —to name only
a few. To these must be added, for a
probationary period at least, the Seven
Labor M.L.C.s who defied the party
ukase which said that the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council must be destroyed.
On the final sitting-day of the year
the Council received from the House of
Assembly the bill for a referendum on
the abolition of the Legislative Council.
In effect, M.L.C.s were being asked to
vote their official selves out of existence.
Labor has a majority in the Council,
and the bill was strictly in line with
Labor policy, so the party-bosses were
entitled to be optimistic about getting
it quickly through the Upper House,
especially after the Council voted with
apparent cordiality for the Salaries Bill,
which it had been thought might get a
stormy reception.
When the Abolition Bill was intro-
duced Col. Clayton, unofficial Opposi-
tion-leader in the Council, opposed the
first reading on the grounds that such
a bill should properly have originated
in the Council. Attorney-General and
Minister for Justice R. Downing indig-
nantly refuted this suggestion, but when
the vote was taken seven Labor M.L.C.s
voted with Col. Clayton and the Opposi-
tion, with the result that the bill was sent
back to the Assembly unread.
Before their defection the Seven had
done little to make their names memor-
able in the legislative annals of the State.
One, a lady recently elected to the
Chamber, made her maiden speech on
the very day the Abolition Bill came
before the Council; one of the others
has seldom been heard since his own
maiden speech many years ago.
Whether the Seven are genuine candi-
dates for mythology is yet to be seen.
Technically their vote was on a matter
of procedure. This may save them from
the expulsion which is the reward of
Labor members who vote against the
machine. Their Council colleagues who
followed the party-line seemed surpris-
ingly unresentful towards the Seven at
the Christmas-party which followed the
adjournment. It was almost as if they
were pleased to be beaten. Perhaps they
were reflecting that if the Seven had
voted with them instead of against them,
this might have been the last Christmas-
party they would attend in Sydney’s most
exclusive club.
Between now and the resumption of
Parliament, there’ll be a lot of work
behind the scenes to save the face of
the A.L.P. executive and at the same
time preserve Labor’s majority in the
Upper House so long as there is an
Upper House. In the meantime that
institution has been given a reprieve,
thanks, whatever their motives, to the
Seven Somethings of Whatsit.
No Euthanasia
Many unionists and politicians in
Queensland who rushed to abolish that
Upper House have lived to rue the day,
as they have seen not only Parliamentary
power but union power over Govern-
ments drawn beyond their grasp to the
point of producing civil political war.
The main force of the drive for N.S.W.
Council-abolition has come from Tom
Dougherty, the Big Wind of the A.W.U.;
and not a few members, especially those
with connections with the Left, are
wondering what Mr. Dougherty hopes to
gain from achievement of his pet
ambition or what the result of it may
be to themselves.
The ground on which it was decided
in the Council to send the Abolition
Referendum Bill back to the Legislative
Assembly was utterly absurd in Parlia-
mentary law. On precedents which had
no reference to the legislation it was
determined that the bill bucked Parlia-
mentary privilege because, affecting the
Council, it had not originated in the
Council—in fact, that it was designed
to be murder by consent instead of
suicide.
Every year legislation which affects the
Council is introduced in the Assembly
—the Budget, for instance, which fixes
its financial arrangements. And, through
Section 5b of the Constitution Act,
the Legislative Assembly can send any
bill whatever rejected by the Council
to the electors for referendum without
asking the Council’s consent. A signifi-
cance of this fact is that it was written
into the Constitution by the Stevens
Government in 1933, some members of
the present Legislative Council being
unshocked by it. This is, of course, apart
from the mandatory provisions for a
referendum on Council reform or
abolition introduced by Lang in 1929,
and amended by Stevens in Section 7a.
The identities of the Seven Against
the Macquarie Street Thebes—the fight


seems to have an ancient exact parallel in
history which served both Euripides and
Aeschylus well—throw a fine light on
the manner in which Governments in
recent years have provided the Council
with a lifeguard of ladies and gentlemen
who have nothing to lose, not even their
chains.
None of them has any moral commit-
ments to major unions, none are under
the influence of anybody but their
Government nominators who apparently
selected them in the same way that the
Liberal party sometimes selects party-
friends for knighthoods.
All have gratifyingly Hibernian names
and some of them a horsey flavor. They
have nothing to fear outside the Council
itself ; their one political interest is its
survival.
Mr. Cyril Joseph Cahill, for instance,
the Adrastus of the effort, owns chain-
pharmacies in the New England, and has
been president of the Tamworth Jockey
Club and Tamworth Rotary. And he is
listed in “Who’s Who” as a member of
“Tamworth Gentlemen’s” Club.
Mr. Thomas Patrick Gleeson is a well-
known grazier, former president of the
State Wheat Growers’ Union, and, like
Mr. Cahill, interested in racing and
gun-clubs.
If Mr. Heffron and his besieged
M.L.A.s wish to proceed to extremes,
they can now have the rebels expelled
or not, and proceed to a referendum
vote after repassing the bill next year
plus a joint sitting. They might hold an
election contemporaneously, but in the
circumstances this also might be courting
suicide, with a new Premier in office
and one not very adroit.
"Redheap" Returns
Twenty-nine years after it was banned
by the Customs, Norman Lindsay’s
Redheap has now been republished by
Ure Smith Pty., Ltd.: and remains what
it always was, equally delightful for
Mr. Bandparts hurling his cocoa out
the window, or Mr. Piper frantically
measuring his son and the mantelpiece,
or Grandfather Piper standing dreamily
on the row of Uncle Jobson’s top-hats,
as for the essential and universal picture
of youth cooped-up in a country town
with nothing to do but gloom along the
shop-fronts, ring the firebell or cffase
the girls. In short, as Kenneth Slessor
says about it on the dustjacket, it is
“The funniest comedy of an Australian
small town that I have ever read.”
There is a certain innocent frankness
in Norman Lindsay’s outlook on sex in
his writing that is always likely to startle
the unsophisticated, just as the same
viewpoint in his paintings still startles
the Sydney art-critics into frantically
proclaiming that they are not startled ;
but if Redheap was something of -a
shocker when it first came out —and one
leading newspaper actually accused
Norman Lindsay of the “matricide” of
Australia in writing it —it is mild by
today’s standards and really could never
have been banned at any time by anyone
acquainted with Fielding, let alone
Rabelais.
That we are able to see it again today
is, first, a credit to the Menzies Govern-
ment which, with some courage and
commonsense, revised the Customs cen-
sorship list a year or so ago ; and,
secondly, an illustration of the essential
futility of censorship.
Censorship is no joke. It can hit an
author very hard financially ; the undue
publicity and the feeling that the police
are always looking over his shoulder
can get an inexperienced author into a
muddle from which he may never
emerge ; the effect is damaging on all
other writers, damaging to culture in
general. But, as the reappearance of
this gay little classic of the Australian
earth shows, in the long-run it is futile.
You can’t kill a good book. It has a
life of its own that inevitably, sooner or
later, must defeat the clumsy mechanism
of censorship.
Decentralising Prosperity
Although the Victorian Cabinet has
been long-winded in producing the bill
to appoint a select committee into
decentralisation, giving the Labor
Opposition and the Country party
political opportunities which both have
seized, it is a superior measure with
sound and comprehensive terms of
reference.
The chief purpose, of course, is to
report on whether it is expedient and
practicable to bring about by Govern-
ment action a more even distribution of
population between the city and rural
areas.
On the assumption that the th'ree-
party committee will report it is both
expedient and practicable to do so
(judging by the propaganda emanating
from the parties in recent months), they
are then asked whether the increase of
population in non-city areas is wholly
or partly dependent on the establishment
of secondary industries or what other
sources of employment could be created
or enlarged economically.
The committee is asked to nominate
specifically the kind of industries which
could be located and operated economi-
cally, whether subsidies or Government
concessions are necessary and could be
justified—some recent suggestions on
these lines have named freight conces-
sions—what effect this might have on
non-subsidised city competitors, and
which district needs help or is particu-
larly suited to the establishment of new
activity.
The terms were an admirably kept
secret, but the Cabinet’s intention to
appoint the committee had been known
so long in advance the Country party
was able to launch a campaign and
Labor to introduce its own bill in the
meantime, giving both parties the open-
ing to proclaim to the electorate they'
had forced the Government’s hand.
What has forced the Government’s
hand is, of course, the enormous expan-
sion of Melbourne due to prosperity, a
good governmental climate for industry,
and migration.
The Stuart Affair
The findings of three judges who formed
the S.A. royal commission on the convic-
tion of Rupert Max Stuart for the
rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl
in a lonely cave at Ceduna should satisfy
those whose minds have been agitated
by the matter.
A jury, the Full Court, the High Court
(it was not entirely happy about one
aspect of the case, as presented by
Stuart’s counsel) and the Privy Coun-
cil were all sufficiently convinced of the
aborigine’s guilt to determine that he
could and should be hanged according
to law. But on the say-so of the con-
demned man’s lawyers that they had
fresh evidence from people whom
one would have expected to be
introduced into the trial on the very
first day of the defence, on the belief
of an “expert” on natives that Stuart
could not have written this cprifession
because of his ignorance of English, and
on the claims of a kindly priest,
inexperienced in such matters and who
knew Stuart only in a cell, a nation-
wide agitation was started.
The three judges endorsed the find-
ings of all the appeal courts that Stuart
had a fair and lawful trial and that the
jury which convicted him came to a
reasonable conclusion.
On the first of the three points raised
before the commission to invalidate the
conviction, the commissioners found that
Stuart spoke “reasonably good English
as it is commonly spoken by people who
have had some, but not a great deal of,
education.”
They found on the question of alibi
that so far from proving that the peti-
tioner was working in the sideshow in
which he was employed at the time the
little girl was murdered, the new evi-
dence proved that the petitioner did, as
the confession related, walk back along
the beach in the vicinity of the cave in
which the body was discovered some
time between the hours of 2.30 p.m. and
4 p.m.— i.e., during the period within
which the child must have been
murdered.
Thirdly, the commissioners found
themselves “quite unable to accept the
petitioner’s testimony . . . that the written
confession was extorted from him by
violence.”
In the light of the facts, it is difficult
to understand why (as the commissioners
remarked) that “any heat or excitement
should have been injected into the agita-
tion for further inquiry or rehearing,”
but it “would seem that the source and
origin of this heat was an element of
exaggeration and extravagance, even of
misrepresentation, of the appeals to the
High Court and the Privy Council.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE INKS"
This time of the year my thoughts
go out to the department - store
Santas. Who but could have a fellow-
feeling for one whom Nature endowed
with a long face like a horse and yet
has to try and make it look round and
jolly? The look of fear in his lamp as
he dandles an innocent-looking kid on
his knee may stem from hard-earned
knowledge that he may have to extin-
guish pronto his highly - combustible
zift when the brat pulls out his old man’s
cigarette-lighter and, holding it under his
benefactor’s chin, clicks it. The angelic-
looking tot, too, as shrewd as an s.-p.
bookie, might tug it like a bell-puli
strap on a Bondi bus to see if the
beaver’s dinkum. Many a hander-out of
Yuletide promises has spent part of his
lunch-hour break disentangling his
synthetic face-mat from a potent fixative
—and a well-chewed wad of Spearmint
can cling! Look carefully at him while
he is on the job on a sticky December
day among the milling kids —I have yet
to see one yield to the strong temptation
of wiping his perspiring face with his
ersatz whiskers —and you’ll see a faraway
yearning hit his eye—not for the wastes
of beautifully cold snow whence he is
supposed to have come ; he’ll be wonder-
ing how much bloody longer it’ll be
before he can get to that ice-cold
schooner of ths best. I, for one, was not
at all surprised to read in the “Sydney
Morning Herald” last Wednesday that
officials of the Miscellaneous Workers’
Union had reported a shortage of Father
Christmases in Sydney.—“ Bo.”
“Emel”: The hydrogen - bomb hasn’t
shaken the faith of Wimmera (Vic.)
Shire Council. The newly-erected honor-
board in the municipal offices has space
for the names of shire presidents for the
next 150 years!
*X* 4+ ❖
“Narumee”: “Tabba” (B. 25/II /’59)
had me wondering whether I’d missed
celebrating a BuLLETiN-par. centenary.
You could’ve knocked me down with a
rejection-slip when I counted 236. Now
it’s on the cards I’ll celebrate my
tercentenary in 1960, in company with
the pioneer of modern journalism, Daniel
Defoe. If I. fail to attain a further 64
“Society” high-spots until the following
year, 1 can still think of myself as on
a par with “Crusoe’s” creator —some
authorities give 1661 as his birth-date.
❖ * *
“Sister Ellell”: At high-tea in Glasgow
I was entranced by the accents of those
"No, not for the Archibald Prize, old man. It's a label for
Archibald's fish-paste."
seated around the table —three Scots
from various parts, one from Dublin,
three English and me, Australian. Host
said, “Not everyone likes his cup of
tea at the beginning of the meal, so
please yourselves.” The cups began to
circulate ; I kept passing them on, say-
ing, “Later, thank you.” Still they kept
coming, until I was stuck with one. Host
said, “All right?” I said, “I did say I’d
have it later, but it doesn’t really matter.”
Then he put down the teapot and roared
with laughter: “You Australians and
your accent! I thought you said you’d
have if lighter and so I’ve been pouring
it weaker!”
❖ *> ❖
“Mooki”: Only time I saw the late
Judge Mocatta was at the trial of a
popular young man at Gunnedah
charged with stealing. Things looked
black; the prosecutor began his final
oration as though it was only a matter
of form, referring several times to what
had passed through the mind of the
accused as he set about the alleged
felony. Suddenly the silent little man
on the Bench came to life: “Please ex-
plain how you know what he thought.”
The advocate, startled and stumped,
stared at the judge, muttered a few
words and sat down. The jury brought-
in a verdict of not guilty.
❖ * ❖
“Irving”: Having found most New
Australians canny, I doubt this yarn as
sworn-to by an insurance-agent friend.
For several years the insured, a middle-
aged Italian woman, came to the door
to pay the premiums on her life-policy.
Then, for several months, the premiums
were handed over by a daughter, who
one day asked how much of the “debt”
remained. The agent suggested that he
had better re-explain the position to the
insured woman herself. This brought
the daughter’s tearful announcement that
“poor momma” had died some six
months earlier.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: My former typist, who
resigned for the reason young married
women give up their jobs, dropped in
for a chat. “I’m not worried so much
about the actual event,” she confided,
“but my husband and I were both only-
children —we don’t know a thing about
babies. I must say, though,” she added
hopefully, “Harry’s awfully good with
animals. He was simply marvellous when
the cat took sick.”
SILVER SPOONS
“Isisford (Q.) Shire Council, 4100 sq.-miles,
is presenting centenary silver spoons to 400
children in the shire not born with silver spoons
in their mouths.”
The giving of a silver spoon
To children not born sucking one,
As Isisford Shire Council’s done,
Is kindly and paternalistic,
And by no means anachronistic,
Since silver spoons are characteristic
More, in our times, of millions who
Are dressed-up with no place to go,
First-class TV and tenth-rate show,
Than of the class which, in its dotage,
Gives up baronial hall for cottage,
And silver spoon for mess of pottage.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


That recent par. by “Ceg” on loot
sometimes achieving pseudo-respect-
ability as “souvenirs” recalled a
famous incident in Canberra. The
Russians established their Legation (now
an Embassy) there during the last war,
and started a round of fairly lush parties
where the display of liquor in those
austere days evoked some greedy out-
breaks among a few uncivilised guests.
One bowed rather low on leaving, mut-
tering something like “Thanksh, yer
Exchellency.” As he did so, an un-
opened bottle of Scotch slipped from
inside his waistcoat and fell to the floor
between him and the Minister. The
Minister picked it up, beamed graciously,
and restored it to the departing visitor,
remarking, “This is yours, I think.” It
was a neat lesson in diplomatic aplomb.
—“Mugga Way.”
“Roomy”: Entrained for the city and
the Christmas-shopping crush, she studied
the women’s magazine with increasing
gloom ; then, flapping over yet another
“We are now passing over Surfers' Paradise."
page garnished with layouts in full color
of dishes to cook, gifts to make, decora-
tions to hang on doors, trees, and walls,
clothes to wear, party-games to play, and
table-settings so festive and congested as
to leave little space for plates of eats,
she sighed to her companion, “Christmas
wouldn’t be half so bad if you didn’t
have to read about it!”
❖ ❖
“Emel”: A Nhill (Vic.) woman
assured the firm which had billed her for
“a set of blokes” that she had no inten-
tion of replacing her only, and quite
satisfactory, bloke; but she willingly
paid for the set of blocks supplied.
*t* ❖ ❖
“Mackville”: The Aussie may never
pass-up a shot at Pommies and the Old
Dart, but he doesn’t take too kindly to
anyone outside the family having a
go at the Old Girl. Named the
“Song of the Year” by the U.S.
Academy of Recording Arts and
Sciences, the Tin Pan Alley epic,
“The Battle of New Orleans,” in
which Yankee voices claim that they
chased the British through the brambles
where a rabbit couldn’t go, and right
on to the Gulf of Mexico, wasn’t really
appreciated. But the tune was. One
Aussie group continued to sing the num-
ber, but changed “British” to “rebels.”
A disk-jockey superimposed “Rule
Britannia” at appropriate places during
the playing of the record. But the real
solution came with a comic version, “The
Battle of Cootamundra.” My breakfast-
announcer places the Aussie version
higher than the original on that movable
feast, “The Top Forty.”
“A.J.0.”: Larry Anthony, ex-P.M.G.,
a lifelike impersonator of “Billy”
Hughes (B. 18/11/ ’59), consulted “Billy”
when their parties were in opposition
and it was suggested that Liberal-C.P.
members with safe seats should challenge
Laborites holding marginal seats. “Have
you heard the story of Marcus Curtius?”
“Billy” asked, and told the story of the
chasm that opened in a Rome street,
when the Senate, to appease the gods,
invited a Roman nobleman to jump into
the chasm, and Marcus Curtius obliged
and the chasm closed-up. “All right for
Rome,” “Billy” concluded, “but no
bloody good for Marcus Curtius.”
Anthony decided to hang-on to his safe
seat, Richmond, on the N.S.W. Northern
Rivers.
♦t+ <s*-
“Cyda”: Christmas, 1917, is the one
I remember best. Jerusalem having been
taken a week or two before (Lloyd
George wanted it as a Christmas - box
for the British, whose morale was a bit
shaken by tremendous losses in France),
the Australian Mounted Division was
holding the line in the north-west hills.
It had been raining off and on for a
month, and for the last three days had
hardly stopped: transport was almost
impossible; we were fighting dis-
mounted, as we could get up no fodder
for the horses, and only half-rations for
us. I had managed to keep a fire going,
the only one in the regiment. About
dusk on Christmas Day a young officer
came over and asked me to boil some
water. So on the fire went three cap-
tured Turkish billies. Most of us had
DORA
[With profound apologies to C. J. Dennis]
’Er name is Dora .. . Well, strike me
lucky
The look when I ups and calls her ducky.
Yes, me that kids l know the lot ,
Smoogin and such-like kind of rot ,
An’ ’as a name for slingin’ chaff
As well as any other calf.
But strike! The way she piled on style I
My tongue was hangin out a mile
And draggin’ all about the flora.
’Er name’s Dora.
I seen ’er at the cafe first,
Smokin’ and tryin’ to quench her thirst.
/ backs up in the same old way
An’ says, “Hi chick, I’m here to stay.”
But ’oly cow ! Her looks is shocking !
She snarls, “You’ve laddered my black
stocking !
You’re all the same you silly squares!
You don’t know how to sit on chairs !”
And all because I’d lost my feet.
This little “beat”.
I take my oaf I was perlite
An\ never said what wasn’t right.
I didn’t maul, or pinch or pat,
l just breaved hard and kinda sat.
I didn’t seem to ’ave the cheek.
To think that I could be so meek !
She tossed 'er ’ead and swished ’er skirt!
You’d think that I was only dirt!
Me who once was such a big hit,
Now don’t dig it !
A sloppier dish I’ve yet to find
In all me natchril. She had a kind
Of mussed-up ’air, ’an pale-like lips,
And darkened eyes. Below ’er ’ips
Her “sloppy Joe,” ’n’ on her feet
’Er desert boots. Oh! what a treat!
She sat and mooched with pouted lip.
Will someone here give me the tip?
I’m not the same bloke since I sora.
’Er name’s Dora.
VICTORIA.
PHILLIS CRABTREE.


one, picked-up on the track since the
capture of Beersheba. The young officer
(all in the party were under 21) returned
with a large enamel jug, a bottle of
whisky, bottle of gin, pound of sugar,
couple of Jaffa oranges sliced-up, and
an unspecified quantity of issue rum in
an issue water-bottle. All this being
poured in, the jug, about lygal. capacity,
was filled with hot water, and the brew
well stirred with a bayonet. The young
officer expressed his thanks by offering
us a sample. Then he asked me to sing
a song he had heard me beefing-out a
few nights before. The song called for
another drink, and the drink for another
song. None of that punch reached the
officers’ mess, and I
have no recollection
whether it stopped
raining or only
seemed to.
❖ *i*
“Wulworra”: A
hearty spasm of
fellow-feeling anima-
ted me on reading
(B. 25/11/ ’59) of the
old soldier with plas-
tered hips who used
a woman’s corsets to
help him get at the
itchy spots. A while
back, having slipped
and damaged a
cartilege, I soon
had oodlums of
itches through being
medically con-
demned to wear
plaster round the
waist for several
days. As the irrita-
tion increased, my
consort tore the ban-
dage off, dosed the
inflamed spots with
baby-powder, and
bound me up anew
with one of her old
elastic girdles {minus
suspenders). Since I
had grouched plenty
about the itchiness
while it prevailed, I
was bound to spread
the glad tidings when
it eased; but, not
being a trouble-seeker, I carefully re-
frained from confiding to the lads of
the village how my woes had been cured.
“P.0.M.C.”: From time to time,
jockeys are suspended for giving their
public a tedious spin for its money.
Couldn’t disk - jockeys be similarly re-
strained?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Richard Vaissar”: Can’t see there’s
been any lowering of Newcastle’s stan-
dards of culture (B. 11/11/’59). Two
years ago I adjudicated a ballet scholar-
ship (the biggest in Australia at that'
time) in Newcastle Town Hall. There
was a packed audience, the newspapers
sent representatives and the mayor
attended. Could be that Steel City
audiences are sufficiently cultured to be
discriminating.
+%+ *** ♦>
“Stromlo”: Even if most Australian
children (and adults) believe that Captain
Cook “discovered” Australia, the
youngsters in Tasmania know better.
On November 24 they helped celebrate
the 317th anniversary of the first sighting
of their island by Abel Janzoon Tasman.
Presented to the Dutch Ambassador,
Dr. J. Lovink, a leather box contain-
ing samples of a dozen Tasmanian
minerals, including some from the west
coast near Mts. Heemskirk and Zeehan,
"It had to come — that's what equal pay has done
for the business-world."
the two peaks first sighted by Tasman
(November 24, 1642), and some other
gifts will be sent to Queen Juliana.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Peter Piper”: Ex-naval cove told a'
good story in the bar of the Angoram
(New Guinea) pub about Darwin in
late ’42, when the bombs were dropping
and ships sinking. The biggest part of
our naval strength there was Wavy
Navy, among them old New Guinea
identity Shanghai Brown, lieutenant in
command of a trawler weaving in and
out of the wreckage, his crew hanging
on to the sides of the trawler and
grabbing survivors as they could.
Shanghai was leaning over the rail with
a boat-hook. He caught one fellow by
the back of the shirt and dragged him
to the side of the boat. Then he noticed
that the two-and-a-half stripes on the
cove’s shoulders were straight ones.
“Good God!” said Shanghai, and
dropped him back into the drink. (These
days, of course, they’re all straight.)
■A- .A. A.
V V V
“Wusslean”: As to the Common-
wealth Divorce Bill, a chap in the section
of the Crown Law Department that
concerns itself with the untying of
marital knots put it this way: “If the
bill goes through, lots more people will
be able to go for divorces: we’ll need
more staff —and that will mean promo-
tion for all the old-hands!”
❖ *>
“Beam”: Just back from abroad, she
was the centre of a crowd after the
church service. The wonderful Swiss
watch was glanced at with admiration,
but it was the fan that really took the
ladies’ eyes. Like a medium-sized torch,
the gadget was run by batteries, had a
plastic blade, and whirred round at the
touch of a switch. Gone now the gentle
movements so distracting to the parson.
Just press the switch, hold the barrel
steady, and be cooled without fuss.
CHIROPODELIVERY
“One of the requisites of the woman who
aims to do well at public speaking is to be
comfortable about the feet. You can’t properly
concentrate on ideas if standing for any length
of time brings agonies.”— Women's magazine.
She’ll be shored-up with foundations
As unyielding as crustacean s
Armored rind,
Bones and fibres tightly sheathing ;
So that soon to short-gasp breathing
She’s confined ,
With a threat that she may stifle.
Eve regards that as a trifle,
Nothing more,
When she’s flat-out to be winning
Over audience, and spinning
Words galore.
But what beats argumentation
Quicker than carbunculation ?
Even a toe
Of the kind that’s called a “hammer”
Might result in quite a stammer.
Words can’t flow
On the platform unrestricted
When the speaker is afflicted
With a hoof
Size-five, cased in size-fours, pointed.
That that means phrase disjointed
She’ll give proof.
Shoes that insist on squeaking
When their wearer’s busy speaking
Raise some doubts.
Stilted phrases she must tender
Who wears heels high and slender
When she spouts.
Here's a truth dames may find handy
When they’re seeking words to bandy :
Though you choose
To talk through tight-fit cadies,
Is there need to go through Hades
With tight shoes ?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


■FOLLOWING Melbourne’s spell of sticky
heat, persisting throughout the
night, the “Lost and Found” columns
in the dailies trebled. All the items were
lost—dogs,- spectacles, cardigans, watches,
and even horses. And the location of
the losings? On The Beach. And that’s
not taking into consideration intangibles.
—“Aruminta.”
*** <♦
“Neerim”: Tell “Old Gippsland” (B.
25/11 /’59) that, although “no dictionary
gives a word for upright progress per-
suaded by a handful of neck-scruff
augmented by a handful of pants-seat,”
usage and custom calls this method of
ejection “the bum’s rush.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Phil Anthus”: As a youth in the bush
of Victoria 50-odd years ago, my know-
ledge of football was limited to the
made-in-Australia product, but, -since
The Bulletin frequently trumpeted the
praises of the late “Dally” Messenger,
and once described how he jumped over
a couple of opponents, I realised that
he must be pretty hot stuff in his own
queer code. Years later, meeting
“Dally” in Sydney (in the company of
Harry Sunderland), I told him of the
eminence The Bulletin had gained for
him in Victoria, and he responded with
a coy chuckle. Incidentally, only two
names of Australian footballers appear
to have won permanent inter-State fame.
One is “Dally M.” and the other the
’Rules man Roy Cazaly—“Up there,
Cazaly!”
❖ *** ❖
“J.C.8.”: Boorabunyule has eluded
the modernity that has overwhelmed
so many towns. There is no
service - station ; just two kerb pumps
at the store, and two of a com-
petitive brand at
Riley’s garage lower
down the main
street. Wally
Lamont, the agent,
was dumping drums
to Alf Carter’s
pumps at the store
when a bystander lit
his pipe and flicked
the match down,
igniting the fumes
round the hose-coup-
ling at the tank inlet.
Wally tipped the
connected drum off
his, truck, hopped
into his cabin, and
drove to safety with
the remainder of his
inflammable cargo.
Alf, attracted by
shouts of anguish,
saw a column of
black smoke soaring
skywards, and flung
a bucket of water on
the flames, enabling
them to flow down
the gutter towards
his competitor’s. The rising clamor prised
Tom Riley from under the car he was
repairing to confront a river of fire
bearing down on his pumps. He grabbed
a broom and swept desperately to stem
the flaming stream, at the ■ same time
uttering hoarse cries for help. Wally
raced back with his extinguisher, and
doused the fire at its source, much to the
relief of the population of the town,
which had been drawn together by the
common menace. All moved as one man
to the bar, where the principals, filled and
refilled, related the dramatic affair in
detail: hence this first-hand report, com-
piled on the spot.
❖ ❖ &
“Sister Ellell”: TV has certainly high-
lighted Adelaide! One of my ladies
greeted me with, “Welcome home!” and,
waving the meat-fork at me, added, “And
am 1 relying on you!” I asked “Why?”
“To keep me on my feet another two
years, that’s why.” I weighed-in with
further query. “Well, it’ll take that long
for me to pay-off the rest of the instal-
ments on me teily! ”
*l* ❖
“Dileabach”: Believing that the time
of the year and the look of the sky
justified it, I rose early and put in five-
hours' stooking before knocking-off and
attending church service. Rose wearily
to sing the first ego-shattering hymn:,
“O day of rest and gladness.”
*t* ❖ ❖
“Tom Trout”: I got a new slant on
wine-snobbism from a French com-
mercial-traveller in agricultural chemicals
who gave me a lift near Bordeaux. He
was smarting from lack of response
from the Medoc chateaux-owners, and
reckoned they were due for a fall from
their high reputation because of their
lack of practical interest in modern vini-
culture. Their main interest, he reckoned,
was cultivating lawns and rose-bushes in
front of the chateaux to impress the
simpering tourists their names attracted.
Most were absentee landlords, anyway
—daddy of all an American firm which
had bought up a chateau so that a
Bordeaux address could legitimately be
slapped on their Californian wine-labels!


POLITICAL POINTS
Rumor becomes hotter about the pro-
posed appointment of Dr. Evatt as Chief
Justice of N.S.W., though he has not
appeared in an N.S.W. court (only
a royal commission) for years.
A most ardent advocate of his appoint-
ment is Arthur Calwell, his potential
successor as leader of the Federal caucus.
Dr. Evatt seems to be grooming himself
for the job, walloping all his old political
proteges and the Communist party and
looking benign generally. He would
have just over four years before com-
pulsory retirement if appointed C.J. in
1960.
• •
What looks like a revived interest in
local-government swung new teams onto
the municipal councils in two Sydney
municipalities. In Woollahra, where an
Action Committee campaigned strongly
on two main issues—they objected to
the building of multi-story blocks of
flats on the foreshores of the Harbor
and also to the wholesale lopping of
trees —they won 10 of the 15 seats.
In Kuring-gai Shire, on the North Shore,
Protest Committee candidates also made
their presence felt; they won at least
five of the 12 seats, thus making an
effective protest against the old council’s
plan to spend a large sum on new
municipal buildings at Killara.
Alderman Jensen was re-elected Lord
Mayor of Sydney with a huge majority
—53,442 compared with 20,404 votes
polled by Civic Reform candidate G. L.
Smith. Even allowing for Jensen’s strong
personal vote these figures seem to show
that Labor is certain to have an increased
majority on Sydney City Council.
• •
A day or two before President Eisen-
hower left on his world, tour the Institute
of Strategic Studies in London calculated
the forces of Russia at 175 divisions,
including 75 armored and nine airborne,
plus 60 satellite rifle-divisions, and
trained reserves to provide 125 more
divisions inside 30 days—in all, about
seven-million men, with 40,000 tanks and
1200 long-range strategic bombers. Nato
has 2\\ divisions, of which seven are
in Germany. The figures will count more
in Asia than anything President Eisen-
hower can say or pronjiise. However,
the Western Allies seem to have a slight
edge on the Soviet Union in the matter
of strategic bombers and radar defences.
• •
The Heffron Government’s plan to
licence petrol-stations has been shelved
for the time being, caucus having rejected
it on the grounds that it would play into
the hands of existing oil-companies.
It was rather unfortunate that almost
at the same time as the Malayan Prime
Minister was upholding in the Malayan
Parliament Australia’s right to decide its
own immigration policy Australian
papers were publicising a report that a
Geelong publican had refused a Malayan
student accommodation at his hotel on
the grounds that his regular clients might
object to the presence of an Asian.
Fortunately the report was wrong.
The hotel proprietor has explained that
it was a genuine case of full-house ; that
Asians frequently stay at his hotel and
that there is no color-bar.
It is to be hoped that this correction
will be given full publicity wherever the
BACK AGAIN!
first report was published. As a matter
of national policy we have every right
to decide whom we shall admit to Aus-
tralia, but once they are legally here,
either as visitors or as permanent resi-
dents, we have no right to discriminate
against anyone of race, color
or religion. And it should be made clear
that under our licensing laws a hotel-
keeper is required, provided he has
rooms available, to accept anyone who
seeks accommodation, is able to pay,
and is prepared to observe the rules of
the house.
In an unofficial referendum on
shopping-hours, conducted in Moss Vale
at the same time as the local-government
poll, 899 voted in favor of late-shopping;
370 against.
• •
Nobody seems to be taking much store
by the chances of eternal peace being
born at the summit-conference —if held.
The French announce that their first
nuclear weapon is nearly ready for test-
ing. The U.S. is making plans for a
regular 24-hour patrol by H-bombers all
round the Russian perimeter, and Russia
itself is edging daily southward in Asia
in piecemeal fashion and causing inci-
dent after incident.
• •
By returning their three retiring
women councillors and electing two
more, the electors of Gosford Shire
placed women in a majority of one on
the Shire Council. But although the
skirts will be able to outvote the trousers
if they really try, it seems likely that
Gosford will still have a male mayor ;
two at least of the ladies have said they
prefer a man in the chair.
• •
The Blackpool Conference of the
British Labor party was a different affair
from the one planned to take place the
week Macmillan announced the election-
date. That was to bbgin an “On to
victory” drive, but what came out of
the actual conference after the debacle
were angry speeches and confusion, due
to the vigor of Nye Bevan, who made
Gaitskell look like a drowned mouse ;
also, a retreat from the nationalisation
plank similar to that effected by Aus-
tralian Labor after the 1949 hurricane.
Gaitskell says the plank is 40 years old
and outmoded. The whole party and
its outlook seem to be outmoded.
• •
“G. Elburg”: B. S. Baxter-Cook erred
slightly in assigning R. E. O’Connor to
South Australia when listing the mem-
bers of the first Barton Ministry (B.
4/11/’59). O’Connor was one of the
original N. S. Wales Senators. He was
fourth-highest on the voting-list, thus
securing a three-year term. Vice-Presi-
dent of the Executive Council under
Barton, he did not stand for re-election
in 1903. He died in 1912.
• •
“Sinon”: Up here in Central Queens-
land there appear to be two Tropics of
Capricorn. The main Western Railway
and the Western Highway shortly after
leaving Rockhampton run in a south-
westerly direction. About eight miles
from Rockhampton, at the small
railway-station of Langley, are two white
posts indicating that the line is crossing
the Tropic. About half-a-mile further
on two more white posts, one on each
side of the highway, which runs adjacent
to and parallel with the railway, indicate
that the highway is crossing the Tropic.
Both railway and highway run in straight
lines, and the four posts are not in line.


Liberal-leader Askin told the N. S.
Wales Assembly that his party was sup-
porting abolition of the Legislative Coun-
cil “only in a technical sense.” He
didn’t make any such claim about the
Liberals’ support of the salary-rise. Like
the other two parties they were fair
dinkum on that.
• •
When the Salaries Bill came before the
N. S. Wales Assembly only two members
spoke against it and only three voted
against it. The vocal ones were D. D.
Cross, Liberal M.L.A. for George’s
River, and F. Purdue, Independent
M.L.A. for Waratah. The silent one who
voted with them was W. L. Chapman,
Liberal M.L.A- for Nepean.
The arguments advanced by Premier
Heffron and others who supported the
bill can be summed-up as “We need it;
we deserve it; we’ve no need to be
ashamed to take it.” What no one
attempted to explain was why, with such
shiningly-clear consciences, members of
all parties agreed on a conspiracy of
silence for several months and then
sprang the news on the public just before
adjourning for Christmas.
The least excusable feature of the
business is the decision to back-date the
rise to July 1, thereby giving each mem-
ber a Christmas-bonus of five months’
pay. “Hungry” is the word that
describes it.
• •
Churchill’s 85th-birthday cake included
(among ingredients from more than a
hundred countries) a drop of water from
the Panama Canal. But none from Suez!
• •
Both A.L.P. and D.L.P. leaders in
Sydney are denying that there is any
move towards a reconciliation between
the two parties It has long been recog-
nised that there will be no reconciliation
while the Doc. is leader of Federal Labor.
And the Doc. is still the leader of Federal
Labor. At least....
• •
As predicted, there’s a move in the
Victorian Cabinet for the redivision of
Legislative Council provinces. Labor and
Country party have at present a majority
of one over the Liberal Government in
the Council. Redivision would almost
certainly give the Liberals at least two
new seats, and the question is whether
the other two should be given to Labor,
to secure a Council more representative
of the population, or to the C.P.
Neither of the Opposition parties is
too keen. One reason is that they are
reluctant to cast away their casting-vote,
but, more importantly, they can’t be sure
the Government mightn't win three of
the four new seats.
• •
Russian troops are to stay in Hungary,
according to that country’s Communist
Prime Minister Kadar, “not for internal
political reasons, but as a result of inter-
national questions which have not yet
been settled.”
• •
Sydney’s Lord Mayor Jensen is the
latest to repeat the popular fatuity that
Australia is “geographically located in
Asia.” This is no more correct than it
would be to say that Algeria is situated
in Europe, Palestine in Africa, or
Alaska in Asia. Australia is located in
Australia, and there is no need to talk
it into any other continent. It is true
that Asia is our nearest neighbor, but
it always has been. Modern transport
has brought it nearer to us in terms of
time, but it has also moved Europe and
America closer to us, too. By all means
let us seek friendship with our neighbors,
but there’s nothing to be gained by pre-
tending we live in their backyard.
• •
It was the misfortune of Mrs. A. E.
Press, new Labor M.L.C., that her
maiden-speech was scheduled for the day
on which the Council was virtually asked
to vote itself out of existence. She said
her piece—a nifty little crack at one-
armed bandits which included a graphic
word-picture, “Whole homes have been
put through poker-machines” and
apparently liked the experience so much
that she joined six other Labor M.L.C.s
in helping the Opposition dismiss the
Abolition Bill without discussing it.
» •
“Mugga Way”: When Senator Spooner,
Government Leader in the Senate, told
the annual meeting of the N.S.W. State
Liberal Council the other night of the
rising standard of work and debate ip
the Senate he mentioned that all Senators
had been greatly heartened by a recent
comment in The Bulletin that the
standard of Senate debate was higher
now than that of the House of Repre-
sentatives. He considered this recogni-
tion was an accolade for the Chamber.
The Senator added that for the first time
since Federation the Senate had sat as
many days this year as the Representa-
tives —71 —and more days than any of
the State Lower Houses. He com-
mended the work of the Senate com-
mittee on regulations and ordinances and
of the various select committees.
• •
Two Melbourne unions are tugging
for the body (and dues) of Father
Christmas. The Shop Assistants’ Union
claims most of them are shop-assistants
at other times, getting the normal shop-
assistant’s wage of £l6 55.; but the
Miscellaneous Workers’ Union says most
of Melbourne’s 250 Father Christmases
aren’t in any union, and, as an induce-
ment to join, the union proposes to ask
for a wage of £3O. It will be interesting
when Actors’ Equity moves in on the
scuffle.
• •
Increased margins are expected to add
about £3 million to the wages bill of
the N.S.W. Railways and £j million to
that of the Government Transport
Department. Looks like another increase
in fares ; and in recent years every rise
in fares has been followed by a fall in
the number of passengers carried.
• e
Pat Lawlor: New Zealand Labor has
been shivering at the knees since the
local-government elections. Party feeling
ran high throughout the campaign,
during which the Labor Government
reduced its heavy taxation of petrol,
beer and tobacco. But when the numbers
went up it was found that Labor candi-
dates had fared badly. They fell by the
score in Wellington even big Jim
Roberts lost his seat on the council.
Asked to comment, the only remark
Prime Minister Nash had to make was
that “we seemed to have held the
mayoralties.” No doubt he had in mind
that in Wellington Province three very
popular Labor mayors, including Frank
Kitts, Mayor of Wellington, had held
their seats. However, each will preside
over councils almost entirely opposed to
Labor.
• •
October registrations of new motor-
vehicles were a record. The total, 26,330,
which included 16,152 cars, 3908 station-
wagons and 6270 trucks and utilities,
was 2905 higher than the previous
monthly record and 4052 higher than
the total for October last year.
• •
China has strange ways of promoting
the peace it loves so well. In Bombay
a Chinese official went to the U.S. Con-
sulate and asked for political asylum.
He stayed the night, then apparently
decided to return to his vomit. He asked
that a marine should go back with him.
The marine was seized by the Commu-
nist officials and kept a prisoner for six
hours. Peking shouted indignantly
about “Kidnapping.” The angry U.S.
State Department “refused to speculate
as to whether the Chinese Petrov really
changed his mind after defecting, or
whether his flight was part of an
elaborate plot to embarrass the U.S.”
Nehru has merely remarked that the
whole tale sounded like fiction.
• •
It seems rather a pity that nobody
invoked Section 38a of the N. S. Wales
Constitution Act, which enables an
Executive Councillor in the Legislative
Assembly to sit in the Council and ex-
plain and debate a measure there —
though not to vote. Heffron addressing
The Seven would have been worth
hearing.
e •
Queensland Premier Nicklin has
announced that Queensland would
accept the proposed system of decimal
coinage if it was adopted throughout
the Commonwealth, a committee of
Queensland officials having held an in-
quiry. The States have little or no choice.
Under Section 51 (xii) of the Common-
wealth Constitution, the Commonwealth
is granted power to make laws in respect
of “currency, coinage, and legal tender.”


The Room
By
HAL PORTER
She does not mind, bold young man. Do sit down.
In the winter you come
from a provincial town to
Melbourne ; you have a
portable typewriter ; you
are a young man of 22 and
intend being a famous author.
By a set of romantic acci-
dents you become possessed,
almost immediately, of a large
room. You suffer at a coffee-
palace while furnishing this
room which you mentally call
a studio. From the first you
are inspired by the spirit of
the former lodger which mani-
fests itself as a white cubicle
off the room: in the cubicle
are a porcelain bath, linoleum
of blue and white lozenges.
You become aware of beauty
in whiteness ; a vision you
have had of sunflower-yellow
floor, black chairs and Van
Gogh reproductions flies off
like a parakeet. You have
not furnished a room before,
have existed among doyleys
and tri-legged bamboo tables,
butchers’ calendars and Eng-
lish teasels. Yet, within a fort-
night, it is difficult to believe
that you have ever lived any-
where but alone in the room
which must always have been
furnished as you have fur-
nished it.
On the white walls are white
bookshelves, the floor is blue-
and-white linoleum. The single
bed, the wardrobe, the chest-
of-drawers, the chair, are all
enamelled white. Over the bed
a yolk of white electricity
blazes at night in an egg of
china. You throw snowballs
of spoiled paper into a white
wire basket. The room is
immaculate as an iceberg and
seems as utterly yours as your
body is. In the centre of the
room, under the skylight, an
invisible figure takes its stand,
monkish, fresh as white flame,
its eyes shuttered.
The room is, you
decide, ascetic, a
room woman
must never enter.
When you leave
it, and see the
outside of its
door grey as the
crust of a seashell,
you are surprised
to find that the
room is not float-
ing in space, but
is topmost of
a 19th - century
warren of brown
offices and cedar
counters which
exude an odor of
vanished pros-
perity, of the
corky staves of
old wine - bins.
You descend five
hollowing flights
of stairs, past
doors behind
which jobless
public typists and
the seedy pro-
moters of evan-
escent enterprises
hopelessly file
their fingernails.
In one of the dens
lives a piano
which plays at all hours and
as though from the depths of
a mine.
Below, you step into the
city. It roars dustily or drones
with rain ; shoals of cars and
buses and trams slide through
it. Endless belts of people
chatter past each other reflected
in plate-glass windows; mad-
nesses of them torrent through
enormous doorways, along
gorges of concrete and glass
summited by electric words
that pant in and out. There
is ceaseless in-and-out, high-
tide, low-tide, lightning of
movement, echo and echo of
thunder of movement.
You learn the secrets of
cafeterias, coffee-lounges, milk-
bars —of dress-circle, gods,
foyer—of public libraries and
trysting clocks and Babylonian
emporiums—of lecture-halls,
bookshops, Greek and Chinese
cafes little lawns and
rockeries of mesembrianthe-
mum lost behind newspaper
offices. You realise that you
play a minute instrument, are
yourself an instrument, in the
never-ending midnight-to-mid-
night city fugue. You are
thread of a music by a name-
less composer, one of an
orchestra whose conductor is
unknown, an instrument whose
maker conceals his purpose,
even from poets. The odor
and 1 ' color and rhythm and
design of the city soak into
your being.
You return, night or day,
city-fevered, city-drunk, to the
five flights of stairs. The piano
plays, from the score of its
own experience, an answer to
a question you cannot put.
You write. When stars are
frosted down upon the navy-
blue skylight and your mind
is drained you go, stark with
piety, to the bed.
You sleep. There are no
dreams ; no woman of dreams
enters the glacial room. White
paper and words have quenched
all else. In your heart, as in
the room, stands a hermit,
virgin, strict as celery. The
days step backward from you,
are blown down the corridors
of time.
'VT'ou set out, a Saturday after-
-*• noon late in spring, to
visit sculptured Olympians in
the National Gallery or swans
and fountain-tritons of the
Exhibition Gardens.
You feel an inexplicable
need to visit a white something
and circle back by milestones
of white—stairs and Doric
capitals of marble, plaster
nobilities, whitewashed walls,
freesias, handkerchiefs spread
on the faces of old men as
they drowse on old iron seats.
But afternoon has opened
flatly to pinkness, a pink
camellia, and is on the point
of suspiring away, petal by
petal, and you have done
nothing but dawdle into more
and more silent streets, eyes
yearning among the silver
candlesticks and inlaid
escritoires of antique-dealers’
shops for an exquisite morsel


you have no desire to possess
and will certainly not buy.
The first pink flake sorrows
away. You look about; you
are almost in suburbs. Afar
is the hazy moan of the city.
You return recklessly in its
direction, less avid for busts
and pedestals of bleached
rock.
You must pass the Hotel
Oscar which you have never
entered. From its mouth flows
a warmth and pinkness as of
the shaded gas-jets which lit
clandestine meetings many
years ago. You surprise your-
self by entering. You walk,
as one must, up a swirl of
nougat stairs worn by the
ruches of hansom petticoat 9
and rag-time toecaps and jazz
heels and the soles of many
virile men lost in wars and
senility and death-rooms.
An automaton of chocolate
and false gold swings back the
cut-glass doors. For a second
it seems that there is no one
at all under the dome of gilt
and pomegranate-red, that the
hall is empty except for a
violin waltz mourning the
drunkards of yesterday. Then,
at tables under palms filched
from conservatories haunted
by debutantes with fans like
doves’ tails you see and hear
the cocktail-sippers who feed
the palms with fag-ends.
You seek in the stale light
for a table. Waiters, those
animals of lampblack and
menu-white, appear and dis-
appear, agile yet emasculated,
while the waltz burns with
febrile unhappiness through
the laughter and the paint of
lips and the fungus-pallor of
hands repeatedly uplifting
potions of cyclamen and jaun-
dice, of greens of glacier and
venom and lime.
Che! You see her. You see
the woman.
She sits alone, without the
air of waiting for anyone, at
a table under a nervous palm.
She is slender, she is still.
Before you are aware of it,
before your mind considers it,
your body has moved to her
table. And your voice:
Would she permit . . .. ?
Would she mind awf’ly if . . . ?
She looks into your heart
and perceives the white eremite
and his covered eyes.
She does not mind, bold
young man. Do sit down. It
disturbs her to see you sway-
ing there like a poplar or what-
ever it is.
Her voice has a colored
powderiness and yet her voice
belongs to her white body.
On her throat you see the
imperceptible but opulent
movement of white. This, at
last, of all whites, is the white.
She is alone? Your voice
does not tremble as it should ;
the source of your voice is
enchanted. She is alone?
Quite, quite alone. Her
husband will not be returning
for 15 minutes, 20 minutes . . .
Oh ... ! Oh, you are
terribly sorry. You had no
idea that ... it had not entered
your head that she would be
. . . be . . . accompanied.
So? Why should that make
you terribly sorry?
Well . . . well . . . You
mean you don’t quite know
why you . . . You had never
done this before. Really!
It wasn’t that you thought she
was the sort of woman who . . .
Please, she must believe you.
Never before in your life . . .
Really !
She laughs. The monk un-
seals his eyelids. His eyes are
liquefied, and hot, tar. He
escapes the cell of your heart
which is gradually suffused
with a cobweb of veins . . .
pink of shell, of camellia, of
flamingo, of blushes of blood.
Very well, young man, she
will believe you. Really! And
now you must have a drink
with her. Oh, no, she will
pay. It was- her gesture.
What will you drink?
are not sure. You’ve
not been here before.
What should one drink?
There is a cocktail she
prefers to others. At the
moment. It is called Tropical.
Too naughty.-
A waiter pads to the table.
She opens her handbag wmch
is of a material and a color
too rare, to have names. An
aroma of woman emanates
from its recesses and from
her hand . . . camellia . . .
camellia . . . even from the
immaculate banknote
The Tropical is sub-acid and,
at the same time, faintly
putrid. It seems that the juices
of jungle-melons have been
pressed from over-ripe flesh
by the feet of coffee-boys and,
at the instant of ferment,
transfixed by a film of frost.
Soon you look into her eyes
to disentangle the iridescence
there of many emotions
and experiences: disenchant-
ment, -ennui, cruelty, lust,
knowledge, sorrow. And you
talk of yourself . . .
So you write short stories,
young man! You climb the
ladder of art and sell nothing.
How too frightening and
Latin Quarter. Of course, you
live in the city?
In the city, yes.
She would adore to have
your address. Perhaps, some-
time, she may introduce you
to someone who could be
useful. She knows so many
wretched editors and things—
so many people—so many
people . . .
Would she like you to write
down the address?
No. Tell her. She will
remember. She does not
forget. She forgets nothing.
You are compelled to enter
her eyes again. And you see
that she will not forget. In
her eyes are all the things
she has not forgotten . . .
other addresses, time and jewels
and tedium and sleeplessness
—a thousand things—a hus-
band —young men, a wedding
of boredom, boring adulteries.
And your Christian-name?
Ah, that is a delicious name.
You look like your name.
Will she have a cigarette?
Thanks, no. She does not
smoke. She abhors smoking.
Then her eyes for the first
time leave you. She lifts her
hand from the table . . .
camellia . . . camellia . . .
And this is her husband.
Ralph, this is the clever
young writer-person Irma was
babbling of . . .
Drowsy with the opium of
her nonchalance you become
an actor. You, who have had
nothing published, feel estab-
lished, distinguished, brilliant.
Ah ... ! She is an actress —
superb. Her husband? You
cannot be sure about her
husband. He shakes your hand
relentlessly and meaninglessly.
His hand is stony, manicured.
His pentagonal face is solidified
by experiences you have not
had. An oak-dark masculinity,
the color of his eyes, runs
under the shaven skin. The
black tufts in his nostrils have
been trimmed.
You sense his odorless talc,
the expensive underwear, the
hairy toes, the massaged ruth-
lessness of his body. He says
a few words in a cultivated
voice that has an artery of
coarseness. As he takes her
and her camellia-textured hand
away from you, you notice
that his feet are too small. She
has gone, gone, down the
stairs of nougat.
The waltz makes a final
filigree under the dome, a dis-
mal silver-work of sound.
Then it conceals itself in the
tainted earth of the palm-pots,
in the gilt, in the' unlocked
faces of the cocktail-
drinkers . . .
You will never see her again
—that is certain. You will
drink yourself to death. You
drink Tropicals, squinting into
the frosted yellow-green. You
see yourself drowned there,
miniature, pathetic, curled like
a black prawn. You stumble
through streets for a long time.
You begin to ascend at last,
the five flights of stairs ; the
midnight piano, lost in the
mausoleum of 19th-century
commerce, translates her into
arabesques that dwindle to
silence. You finally reach,
chastened, high above the
woman and the world, the door
on which grey paint is petri-
fied into wrinkles.
The inside of the door is the
salt-bleached white of a shell’s
interior, the anchorite stands
under the skylight and his
replica returns to your heart.
The days languish away. The
piano plays. Rectangular white
leaves float from the tree of
your mind. You place white
shirts in paper-lined drawers.
You wash your white body.
A letter arrives. She has not
forgotten you . . . and surely
you have not forgotten her . . .
the person at the Hotel Oscar?
Could you meet her at the
Hotel Guelph?
'T'he suite at the Hotel Guelph
is the casket in which fer-
vent and somehow atrabilious
afternoons are hung with cur-
tains having heavy dusty
fringes.
Time has faded the blue of
the wallpaper poppies, their
pattern is as enigmatic as the
pattern of her body . . . white
camellia . . . pink camellia . . .
flamingo camellia . . . Hairpins
drop into the dust-grey foliage
of the thinning carpet ; you
learn . your infatuated way
through a labyrinth of cries
and silences.
You seem to be always at
the Hotel Guelph ; lifting her
furs from her shoulders before
you kiss her; swooping for
her fallen gloves as you leave ;
expecting a rap at the door —
her husband’s voice, polite and
coarse, asking for admittance.
Sometimes she behaves like
a girl ; the scum of usage and
knowledge falls from her
laughter, leaving it glassily
cruel as girls’ laughter.
Once she asks very clearly
how much would be needed
to publish your stories.
Already, some days before, you
have mentioned an amount.
You recall this to her. Naked
pale cat, she walks towards
the dressing-table. She takes
banknotes from her handbag ;
she counts out the amount
mentioned; using your
cigarette-lighter she burns the
notes one by one.
Her face becomes intent and
smaller, like an unripe fruit;
the black orchids drop to the
(Continued on page 48)


Personal
ITEMS
Unable to make the trip from Aus-
tralia to attend the annual meeting of the
Royal Society in London, Sir Macfarlane
Burnet, Professor of Experimental
Medicine at Melbourne University,
missed personally collecting there the
Copley Medal he has won. The Royal
Society’s senior award, the medal is pre-
sented annually for the most notable
work in any form of research.
• •
First literary award presented by
British booksellers W. H. Smith and Son
“to encourage authors of the United
Kingdom and the British Commonwealth
at a time when the volume and influence
of foreign literature is increasing” has
gone to Australian author Patrick White
for his novel Voss. White was adjudged
to have made the most outstanding con-
tribution to English literature in 1957-58.
• •
When the Silent- Service breaks its
traditional silence it does not usually
burst into song —printable song, at any
rate —still less into translations from
Horace. Therefore Rear-Admiral Alan
McNicoll, three of whose odes from
Horace appear in “A Page of Verse” in
this issue, is an unusual customer ; and
The Bulletin, before printing him,
asked him how he came to do it. He
said:
“I should make it plain that I am no
classical scholar... .There isn’t much to
say about myself beyond the ordinary
naval run-of-the-mill, though I published
in my youth some verse which I have now
lived-down. I started on Horace to
while away the long bleak nights of my
first Japanese winter in 1945-46. Horace is,
to me, unreadable (as well as very difficultj
in alcarics and sapphics (in English) so
I stuck to metres I could handle.”
“Ordinary naval run-of-the-mill” means,
among other things, that he has been
Captain (D), 10th Destroyer Flotilla,
and Captain of H.M.A.S. Australia;
won the George Medal for “gallant and
undaunted devotion to duty” in the
ticklish job of making enemy torpedoes
safe ; had C.B.E. added after he’d been
chairman of the Three Services Com-
mittee for the atomic tests at Monte
Bello; and is now Deputy Secretary
(Military) to the Department of Defence
in Canberra. His brother, also occa-
sionally guilty of some excursions into
verse, is David McNicoll of Consolidated
Press.
• •
Five members of the Limbless Soldiers’
Association of Victoria —R. S. Amies,
W. B. Ashcroft, E. Brownhill, N. R.
McClune and C. H. Stevens —become life-
members for exceptional service. Their
gold badges were presented by Governor
Sir Dallas Brooks.
While Aria sketched him backstage
at Sydney Royal, Guy Doleman, star
of Ray Lawler’s new play “The Picca-
dilly Bushman,” spoke quietly and
pointedly about his career: his early
years on the land in New Zealand ;
the persistent urge towards acting that
brought him to Australia and a break
at 24 into films; his many years in
radio ; his instructive small-part season
in Robert Morley’s Australian produc-
tion of “Edward, My Son”; the many
ACTOR DOLEMAN
Australian-located films he has played in
(among them “Kangaroo,” “Smiley Gets
a Gun” and the lately-made “On the
Beach”); his visit to the U.S., where
he worked with Alfred Hitchcock,
Ray Milland and the Hal Roach televi-
sion outfit; and, above all, the high-
temperature part he has in the current
Lawler work. Obviously more interested
in the present and future tenses than
the past, he mentioned also his plan to
devote a couple of years to making a
mark on the London stage; adding,
however, that he would return to Aus-
tralia, where he believes the big acting
chances of the future lie —as well as a
way of life that suits him thoroughly.
• •
Charles Chauvel (B. 2 /12/’59) wrote
the book Walkabout, and did not pub-
lish the magazine “Walkabout,” journal
of the Australian Geographic Society,
which is brought-out by the Australian
National Travel Association.
• •
For the twelfth successive year,
Frederick Falkiner Knight has' been
appointed president of the Taxpayers’
Association of Victoria. Also, vice-
president of the federated association,
he’s one of the best-known Melbourne
clubmen, a barrister who practises chiefly
in business and on charity-boards. He
was a sergeant in War 1 (with Gallipoli
included), and a wingco legal-officer in
the R.A.A.F. in the later scrap.
He succeeded his uncle, L. S. Falkiner,
as the taxpayers’ president, and his
father, the late Fred A. H. Knight, a
Melbourne sharebroker earlier in the
century who had grazing interests in
Queensland, was one of the founders of
the association.
The chief purpose of the association,
to keep the money in the families, has
become just on impossible these days,
but the Knights at least keep the presi-
dency there.
• •
A grandson of the first Sir Edward
Knox, who founded the company in
1855, Sir Edward Ritchie Knox has just
relinquished the C.S.R. chairmanship,
which he had held since 1933. In his
younger days successively clerk with
Dalgetys, jackeroo and overseer on a
pastoral property in N.S.W. and
chartered accountant, he was in the
Royal Field Artillery in War I, with the
M.C. to his credit. Since he became
C.S.R chairman the company has ex-
panded into building-materials and in-
dustrial chemicals in addition to develop-
ing along its ordinary familiar lines.
J. W. Dunlop, who succeeds as chair-
man, has been a member of the board
since 1949. He’s chairman also of
Edwards Dunlop and of United In-
surance and a director of the ’Wales
and the Perpetual Trustee Co. In War
II he was with the 2/2nd Bn. in Libya,
Greece and Crete and the Owen Stanleys,
and was twice “mentioned.”
• •
Known to men on the land through-
out the State, R. C. Musgrave has just
retired after 33 years with the R.A.S.
of N.S.W. Appointed chief clerk in
1945, he has kept in close contact with
the many breed-societies for which the
R.A.S. carries-out secretarial work, and
since 1954 he’s had a. hand in running
the society’s field-competitions for wheat
and maize, pasture and fodder, which has
meant travelling thousands of miles each
year and, of course, accumulating excep-
tional knowledge of the land and its
people and problems.
• •
Coming to Australia last June to spend
a holiday with their son, who was
educated at Geelong College, Edward
Riach, of Aberdeen (Scotland), and his
wife liked Melbourne so much that they
decided to settle here.
Associated with the production of
natural rubber for 34 years—2s in
Sumatra and nine in Borneo and Malaya
—Riach retired earlier this year as g.-m.
in Malaya for one of the world’s largest
producers of sole-crepe rubber. During
the war he spent three-and-a-half years
in a Jap concentration-camp (his wife
and son escaped to Australia). After-
wards he was in charge of the rehabilita-
tion of ravaged plantations in Sumatra


and Borneo. He has now been appointed
assistant to the technical-manager in the
new tyre-making factory being opened
by B. F. Goodrich Australia Pty., Ltd.,
at Somerton (Vic.).
• •
There’s luck in odd-numbers . . .
anyway, it looks as if Summer Glare,
the 13th book he’s written —though the
first published—has hit the jackpot for
Gerard Hamilton. It’s reviewed in this
week’s “Red Page.”
Here sketched, the author was born
at Gunnedah (N.S.W.). His father being
a bricklayer, the family travelled where
there was work, and young Gerard
Hamilton was raised in various country
towns throughout New England. From
the start he had a physical handicap that
would have daunted most people, and
when he was nine it was thought he
wouldn’t live long, for which reason,
plus effects of the depression, he was
taken away from school.
He came to Sydney at 17 and started
work sweeping a factory-floor, with a
mixed lot of other jobs to follow, among
them photography, interior - decorating
and painting, until he managed to borrow
enough money to run a hamburger-shop.
Later, with his brother, he leased a pub.
All this time he was writing when-
ever he could, and he also found it
possible to do an evening-course at the
Christian Brothers’ College, Lewisham
(Sydney), and to study literary criticism
for four years with the University
Coaching College. That started the idea
of publishing his work ; but it got no
,further until one day, sitting in Sydney’s
AUTHOR HAMILTON
Hyde Park and looking at the people
around him, he decided there and then
to write a story about them. He went
straight to a telephone-box, he says, and
rang a publisher, asking what to do
about getting a book published. He was
told to send his book in when it was
finished. He did—it wasn’t published!
Nowadays, though, finding that writing
gives him complete satisfaction in life,
he makes literature a full-time job. He
lives at Avalon (N.S.W.), but works in
a flat he has taken at Neutral Bay, across
the Harbor from Sydney.
• •
Directors and secretaries from Royal
Show Societies of the various States got
together last week in the Sydney office
of the Royal Agricultural Society of
N.S.W.: Lieut.-General Sir Frank Berry-
man, director of the R.A.S. of N.S.W.;
Harold Finnis, director-secretary of the
R.A. and H.S. qf.South Australia, and
R. Sedsman, who is due to relieve Finnis
on January 1 ; H. T. C. Woodfull,
secretary of the R.A.S. of Victoria ; J. A.
Johnson, secretary of the R.A.S. of Tas-
mania, and F. J. Kennedy, secretary of
the Royal National Agricultural and
Industrial Association of Queensland.
Object was to discuss and iron-out an
agenda of problems.
• •
A tribute right out of the ordinary —-
the Book Collectors’ Society’s honoring
of James R. Tyrrell at its meeting up
at Sydney’s Public Library, by way of
expressing all-round appreciation of Jim
Tyrrell personally, and, as well, marking
his still going as strong as ever in book-
selling, with the record term of 71 years of
it as his score already. Altogether a notable
occasion, starred with bookselling and book-
collecting names: society president Dr. George
Mackaness; hon. sec. Colin Berckelman and
editor Walter Stone (who together arranged
the tribute on behalf of the society); principal
speakers, Mr. Justice J. A. Ferguson, Ernie
Williams (of Angus and Robertson’s —Jim
Tyrrell’s own old original stamping-ground),
Guy Moore (of Moore’s Bookshop), and (for
the society) solicitor (and book-collector)
James A. Meagher, with a soft touch of the
brogue in his voice—and not overlooking, of
course, the guest-of-honor, in first-rate fettle,
speaking his thanks in return.
• •
Free to exercise his vote again, fol-
lowing his 14 years as Chief Electoral
Officer of Western Australia, J. M. W.
(“Jim”) Anderson is taking a spell after
51 years in the Commonwealth Public
Service. He joined the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment as a telegraph-messenger in Kal-
goorlie in 1908 and was a telegraphist
when War 1 started. Joining-up with a
Signals unit, he had over four years of
the Big Stoush, and then, in 1920, started
his long association with the Common-
wealth Electoral Service. He took time
off again in War 11, when he was
seconded as inspector of the Air Force
section of the Auditor-General's Depart-
ment and administrative officer of the
Welshpool munitions-factory. Appointed
Chief Electoral Officer in 1945, he
guided the census in 1947 and again in
1954, and he also chaired two commis-
sions on redistribution of electoral
boundaries. Past-president of the R.S.L.’s
Nedlands sub-branch in Westralia, he
was State president in 1945-48 and also
vice-president of the Good Neighbor
Council. He plans to leave early next
year for a trip to the Old Dart, with a
visit to the Rome Olympics to round
it off.
NORMAN STEWART PIXLEY, hon-
orary Consul for the Netherlands in
Brisbane and president of Queensland's
division of the Navy League of Australia .
At hardly any stage of the more recent
of its 100 years could it be claimed the
Western District was not adequately
represented in the Victoria Racing Club ;
and now there is another from the State’s
richest area, Kevin Ryan, who has been
appointed handicapper, replacing C. H.
Davis, who retired recently because of
ill-health.
Kevin Ryan is one of the best-known
racing-men in western Victoria. He has
not been seen much at Flemington be-
cause he is invariably at work in his
own part of the State as handicapper,
broadcaster, secretary, or in some other
capacity at one of the meetings. His
chief racing-post has been handicapper
to the South-west District Racing
Association.
Most sporting people within an hour’s
drive of Terang, however, probably
know him best as the chatty broadcaster
who doesn’t confine himself in his
course-broadcasts to starters and riders
before a race, but discusses the form of
the runners, with, of course, authority.
He was a long-time secretary of Terang
Hospital and has been in business at
that address anci in Ballarat.
c •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 89,. Alfred William
Johnson, civil-engineer and surveyor, who spent
his early days in Westralian mines and estab-
lishing lighthouses on the W.A. west coast as
far north as Broome. He was also on the
Mundaring dam and the W.A. goldfields water-
supply scheme, and in 1914-18 was an officer
with the Australian Tunnelers in France and
Belgium. After the war he was a resident
engineer at Hume reservoir; his final job
before retirement was the sub-surface drainage-
scheme in Mildura district irrigation-area.
At Manly (Sydney), at 70, Vincent J. Brady,
hon. solicitor to the R.S.L. and former Mayor
of Manly. He was with the field artillery in
War I.


FRIENDS ON THE ROOF
By LES ROBINSON
T share an iron roof with pigeons,
A doves, sparrows and starlings. The
pigeons I highly esteem, but not the
doves. Some people still seem to think
that, of all birds, they are the most
inoffensive and peaceable. As I, how-
ever, having lived among them, having
had to put up with them for years,
should be able, without fear of contra-
diction, to asseverate, they are, instead,
quarrelsome and vindictive. They attack
one another always, and as though with
intent to commit a felony—as savagely,
in fact, as cock-sparrows in the mating-
season.
The roof is slightly sloping, and w'hen
two doves are fighting, they, unable to
prevent themselves from
slithering, usually end
flopping about on the
edge of it in an endeavor
to knock each other off.
They’d be easy enough to
catch, but there isn’t much
meat on them. A good
many would be needed
for a stew ...
T reach the roof by
lowering myself
gently from the window
of an attic, a descent of
a few feet only. There is
nothing much to be seen
from it except chimney
pots and part of a back-
yard, unless, of course,
one is addicted to star-
gazing, or, in the daytime,
to watching clouds scurry-
ing or drifting slowly
across the sky. It is a
little below the level of
the roofs of houses along-
side and behind it, and,
for that reason, is shel-
tered from all save the wildest of winds.
The birds don’t, of course, all occupy
the roof at the same time. As though
by tacit agreement the four species men-
tioned alight on it in rotation throughout
the day.
The pigeons have been joined lately
by a budgerigar. He chatters happily
in the sunshine to himself and to them,
enjoying, it is evident, their company
immensely. He has adopted their mode
of life because no doubt it suits him
nicely ; much better, probably, than that
which he used to lead in captivity. When
they descend to the street or fly into a
park nearby in search of food he goes
with them and accompanies them always
on their flights round the neighborhood.
A cat comes up on to the roof some-
times if he wants to sleep for an
hour or two undisturbed. He gets there
by climbing an apple-tree growing in the
backyard. Although, like Beelzebub, he
has a gift for contriving to be incon-
spicuous, the birds all seem to be aware
that their furred enemy is present and
keep well away, until, at long last, after
yawning and stretching himself, he goes
down the tree into the yard.
When the tree has apples on it a
possum is often to be heard scamper-
ing about late at night. He travels to
them, at the risk of being run over,
from a forest in miniature tucked away
in a corner of the park. Thump, thump,
thump go the apples he knocks off
inadvertently, or, for some reason, per-
“Shame on you , Arthur! He's too young!”
haps because they are not much good,
discards.
T find things on the roof occasionally.
A ball maybe, a punctured toy-
balloon, a home-made arrow, or all that
remains of a skyrocket. I found tiny
beads strung together on cotton-thread
to make a necklet not long ago. A
pigeon’s foot had become entangled in
it, I. expect, on the pavement or in the
gutter. I also found a very old penny.
How did that get there? My guess is
that it belonged perhaps to a plumber,
intent, in the dim long ago (the penny
was minted in 1863), upon stopping a
leak. The birds all know me. They
don’t in the least mind when I spread
my washing, out to dry, although—and
of this there is no doubt whatever —
they think the roof belongs to them.
They are not, of course, interested much
in human-beings ; regard them, in fact,
as incubi. I can sense that by the way
they look at me, especially if I should
happen to disturb them when they are
busy devouring gradually a crust of
bread.
Like the birds themselves, I can relax
up there. It is a relief to be able, if
only for a little while, to step out 01,
or to escape from, the unceasing activity
of an urban environment: just as the
captain of. a ship might conceivably
have peace of mind at being high above
the turbulence of the waves.
Les Robinson.
.: *
“Davo”: Here in Western Queens-
land we get value for our fivepence.
Mackunda and Toolebuc stations are
28 miles apart, homestead to homestead.
A letter posted at Toolebuc for
Mackunda travels 625 miles by road and
rail through McKinlay, Gilliatt, Hughen-
den and Winton, taking two-and-a-half
to three weeks en route. Sent by airmail
it takes slightly longer, as it must go
from Hughenden to Townsville and
Rockhampton to make a Connection.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: Hori was joining the
Army, and the recruiting-officer was
detailing the various units. “How would
you like to join Ordnance?” he asked.
Hori shook his head vigorously. “I
wanta be with the fighting-men,” he
declared. “No good to me just being
in the audience.”
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: Advertisements in a Vic-
torian weekly with a State-wide circula-
tion, in the “Lost” section :
One small male black cat lost between
;.. .etc., etc.
One brown mongrel dog six months
old, £1 reward.
Doubtless the P.O. has ordered a truck
to deliver the mail to the two addresses
concerned.
* * * *
“Fairf”: Don’t know the current rate
for galahs, but the country pub quoting
the classic menu of “goat, or galah”
might find it expedient to narrow the
choice down a bit, these days. In my
youth 7s. 6d. to 10s. was the price for
a milking nanny. Ask the price of a
nanny today and, in the first place,
you’ll be snubbed —nannies and billies
no longer exist; they are bucks and
does, if you don’t mind—and in the
second, £lO, you’ll find, won’t buy the
goatly equivalent of a teenager. To
appreciate the exalted plane on which




(he erstwhile despised animal now floats
it’s merely necessary to stroll around
the goat-pavilion at any District Agri-
cultural Show. Billies—pardon!—bucks
no more imposing than the ones that
used to thrive on a diet of gravel and
jamtin-labels are more fawned upon
than Little Lord Fauntleroy, while
ordinary-looking nannies are ushered
into the judging-enclosure with every
pomp except the “Wedding March.”
Two kids (four-legged kind) at the Fair-
field (N.S.W.) Show this year did, how-
ever, really take my eye. The length and
floppiness of their ears would have won
them first-prize in the spaniel-section.
The exhibitor informed me that I was
beholding the first Anglo Nubians ever
“Go you halves in a pair of shoes!"
to be shown in N.S.W. The price of
this breed? Forty fiddlies for day-olds!
* * * *
“Monty”: The fourth crop-spraying
plane-crash in Queensland this year will
revive antagonism to their low-flying
methods, but flying at higher levels
w'ould minimise the effect of the spray-
ing. Besides, the danger to anyone other
than the pilot is negligible, and flying
at low level reduces the possibility of
fatality: each of the four pilots escaped
from his crash.
* * * *
“Sackville”: Afraid I smiled a little
when an English migrant said of my
African lovebirds, “They’re much like
parrolets, aren’t they?” Well, parrolet
does sound something like parakeet,
and I suppose you couldn’t expect a
new-arrival to catch-on to our nomen-
clature immediately. A few days later
he dropped-in a book oh the birds of
South America, where he had spent
several years. One of the most handsome
plates was of parrolets. There are times
when a fellow wishes he was an acrobat,
so he could give himself a hearty boot
in the pants. And parrolets are very
similar to African lovebirds.
Thanks for “Bo’s” suggestion (B.
4/11/ ’59) of a walking-fish from
Queensland strolling into a cocktail-party
and making a record of human conversa-
tion. I have the right thirst-quencher
for a job like that. First time I brewed
it a polo-party took a bottle-and-a-half
of it on their homeward journey from
the Paroo River, with the trophy under
the seat and the home-brew bubbiing-up
their happiness as they rolled home in
the moonlight in the early-model car.
At daylight, when they could see plainly,
they found themselves 100yds. from the
pub from which they’d started the night
before, the axle over a log, the engine
running, and everybody thoroughly
happy. As for the walking-fish, I was
riding with a friend home from a tank
on the Paroo, the other side of nowhere,
with lines and hooks but no fish. We
should have had crayfish-bait, George
said, and then we looked up to see a
crayfish walking along beside the bore-
drain on its hind legs towards us. George
said it wasn’t uncommon in the district.
They were bred in the bore-drain, and
trained to act as bait.—“ Galloping Bob.”
-I* H- H*
“L.F.H.”: Word comes to me of a
swaggie approaching the parson of a
town in the N.S.W. mid-west and asking
for a spot of work. The parson’s “What
can you do?” brought the sporting offer,
“I’ll write a sermon for five-bob.”
Taken-up on it, the swaggie produced
the sermon after an hour’s solid wTiting.
Don’t know if parson used it, but
swaggie got his dollar.
¥
“Sanasi”: When I was in Papua a
native named Vangeke from Mekeo, near
Port Moresby, went to Madagascar to
study for the priesthood. Writing to his
bishop, he reported having practically no
difficulty with the local language. As an
example, he mentioned that if he wanted
a drink of water he would ask for ratio,
just as he would in Port Moresby (Motu-
speaking people). Those who have read
Thor Heyerdahl’s Aku-Aku would have
noted that two of the three crater-lakes-
on Easter Island are named Rano-Kao
and Rano-Raraku, which names simply
mean Kao-water and Raraku-water. The
fact that in three such far-apart places as
Madagascar, Port Moresby and Easter
Island rano means water is not a coinci-
dence —in all three places speech is a
variation of a basic tongue known as the
Austronesian or Malayo-Polynesian
language-family, the most widely
scattered in the world.
% 4c #
“0.W.W.”: Mention of perfume to
spray garbage-cans reminds me of an
Army cook who had the ration-store
corporal puzzled by the vast quantity of
vanilla he used. Before morning kitchen-
inspections the babbler used to pour
essence in to make the swill-bin smell
sweet!
* * * *
“Myall”: One of the world’s most
unusual railway-services is that which
links Cooktown with Laura, in Cape
York Peninsula (Q.). Cooktown, the
administrative headquarters, has a popu-
lation of about 400; Laura, the ter-
minus, totals 50 inhabitants —10 whites
and 40 aborigines. The line, 67 miles
long, has 11 stopping-places—they can't
be called stations. The once-a-week ser-
vice carries supplies to the few pros-
pectors and farmers along the track,
returning with small parcels of gold
and tin, and some produce. One man
is traffic-super., maintenance-officer,
administrative chief, stationmaster, ticket-
collector and driver. The line, opened
in 1880, is the second-oldest in Queens-
land, the first being that from Ipswich
to Grandchester (1865).
X
* * * *
“5 GR.”: In Urdu “pukka” means
metalled —a pukka rasta is a metalled
road, and the term has been applied to
an Englishman—the pukka sahib, one
possessing solid character. Another is
the verb “decco” (“let’s have a look” in
Urdu). But I have never learned the
derivation of “fair dinkum.”
* * * *
“Monty”: A new starting-block device
has been introduced by a German
doctor. The runner grips the handles
and is thus able to stand poised in a
forward position for instant take-off.
I can recommend a better method. When
caught raiding the Chinaman’s garden
we could always depend on a seatful of
saltpetre from his shotgun ; and I can
assure athletes that there could be no
greater incentive to move off the mark
and to keep going indefinitely than a
battery of synchronised starting-pistols,
each directing a charge of saltpetre at a
runner’s pants.


The past 2 years have proved you can't
have too much STORED FODDER!
That’s why
so many farmers
today are
ADDING
extra Silos to
build up
Storage Capacity
. r*
$ •
8888
•?&gz
* .r-'
Shown above is a battery of five Lysaght 2,000 bushel silos with a V 2814 Grain
Auger centrally situated to fill four silos without moving, making it a one-man
operation. Batteries of this type, filled in this manner, enable you to turn oats
quickly and easily in an emergency. Remember, too, that all fodder conservation
expenses are tax deductible.
At left are two Lysaght 3,500 bushel silos installed at Moree. Such installations
are being rapidly augmented as farmers learn the vital importance of building
up fodder reserves to meet drought conditions. This particular battery, in
fact, by providing low cost supplementary feed for lambing ewes, gave the
owner a full lamb drop the highest ever recorded in his district during a
dry year.
Countless examples exist to prove beyond all doubt that
adequate fodder reserves are vital to modern farming. During
drought periods, for example, oats that had been stored in
Lysaght Silos for up to seven years were used to reduce stock
losses. Being stored when costs were low, the fodder savings
alone more than paid for the silo installation.
Decide today to put Lysaght Grain Silos to work for you!
A Lysaght Field Representative is always available to help and
advise you on the most suitable locations and to assist in the
planning of proven battery layouts, auger installations, etc.
Post coupon below for full details !
PRICES (F.O.R. Newcastle)
Nominal Actual Steel
Capacity Capacity Silo Earth Ring
Bushels Bushels Price Price
200 240 £5O £5 0 0
250 (elevated) 270 £97
500 580 £B2 £9 10 0
1,000 1,280 £143 £l7 10 0
2,000 (tall) 2,100 £217 £26 0 0
2,000 (squat) 2,410 £217 £34 10 0
3,000 3,380 £282 £34 10 0
3.500 3,780 £306 £34 10 0
4.500 4,850 £463 £42 10 0
PRICES
(Vertical Augers—
F.O.R. Newcastle)
LYSAGHT RURAL PRODUCTS -The Key
to Successful Modern Farming
To John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited
(City)
Note: N.S.W. enquiries should be directed to John
Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited. Newcastle Works,
Newcastle. In other States please refer your enquiry
to the office of John Lysaght (Australia) Pty.
Limited in your State.
I am especially interested in:
LONG TERM FODDER STORAGE Q
SHORT TERM OR ‘BULK HANDLING’ Q
WATER STORAGE 0
(Please tick the square opposite the unit you are most
interested in)
B
Please send me details of the following Lysaght Pre-
fabricated Products)
Grain Augers (Ver.) □
NAME
NAME OF PROPERTY ROUTE OR RMB No.
DISTRICT STATE
S3CC
AUGERS
Highly efficient Grain Augers de-
signed to centre fill all Lysaght Silos
from 1,000 B. to 4,500 B. are also
available. Outstanding features in-
clude • 8 bushel built in hopper
• No maintenance all bearings
sealed • Flat belt drive pulley
supplied • Adjustable chute tube.
LYSAGHT
GRAIN SILOS
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne
Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle


l ® Mm
m
m
.4
x>;<x
’m&sM&ar ,
,35
MMM
<?«£
A happier choice for every occasion . . .
AKGOVGS wine
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you 11
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia's
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY. VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING. SAUTERNES. PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course 1
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
AQNVMB S3NDV lS AONVUa 831138
SHAREMARKET DANGERS
T ast week two sharp notes of
warning on the Australian
sharemarket boom came from
well-known authorities.
The first was from Staniforth
Ricketson, addressing share-
holders in Jason Investment
Co. on November 30.
“Whilst I should like to
reiterate my complete faith in
the long-term future of Aus-
tralia,” said Mr. Ricketson,
“experience has taught that we
must always be watchful for
changes and fluctuations. That
is particularly so in a time like
this, when speculative propen-
sities have once more been given
rein in a variety of fields —such
as land-purchases, takeover
bids, and extensions by com-
panies into new fields in which
they have no direct experience.
“A more cautious and dis-
criminating approach to invest-
ment seems highly desirable.
Whilst, perhaps, the total inflow
of new capital into Australia
may ultimately prove to be
about the same as last year, it is
easy to visualise a situation in
which a cessation of the recent
heavy buying of stocks on over-
seas account could have a
definite influence on the equity-
sharemarket in this country.
“The discrepancy between
market yields from leading
equity-stocks and those avail-
able from fixed-interest invest-
ments may serve to encourage
some more cautious investors to
realise handsome profits avail-
able from equities. Should they
do so, they might be expected
to invest the proceeds in gilt-
edged stocks or in company
debentures or notes until the
situation and the possible trend
of economic affairs becomes
more readily assessable. This
course would probably appeal
most strongly to individuals
whose main concern is the pre-
servation of capital consistent
with the highest obtainable
yields.
“Such a position does not
imply any doubts as to the
long-term benefits to be derived
from equity-shares as a result
of continued national develop-
ment and expansion. In indi-
vidual circumstances, however,
it might prove to be a sound
precautionary measure for folk
who will be dependent on the
income-returns they receive
from the investment of their
lifetime savings.” .
The second warning came
from the Bank of N. S. Wales
in its quarterly “Review.”
“But for the recovery in
export prospects and the con-
tinued interest of oversea
capital in Australian industrial
growth,” said the ’Wales, “it
is possible that the economy
might have reached a stage
when it would sag. Much of
the effervescence, for example,
has passed out of the hire-
purchase boom, and the rate
of repossessions has tended to
rise. It would seem from
recent experience that the
ability of the economy to ride-
out a period of low commodity
prices has improved, but that it
cannot attain a higher standard
of prosperity without a
recovery in the main export
proceeds.
“In its annual report, the
Tariff Board made reference to
the two main difficulties being
encountered by Australian
industry: growing competition
from lower-cost countries and
those where trade is largely
State-controlled and prices are
not fixed solely in relation to
cost, and, secondly, the exis-
tence of excess capacity in cer-
tain industries. In these respects
some industries are much more
vulnerable than others. Never-
theless, over the whole range
of secondary industry produc-
tion and efficiency are still
showing improvement.
“Confidence in the growth
potential of Australian industry
is still evident in the continued
rate of new investment in plant
and machinery on the part of
both local and oversea interests,
but the emphasis is perhaps
changing towards new tech-
niques and greater productivity
rather than expansion of
physical capacity as such. A
recent official sample disclosed
that businessmen expected their
capital-expenditure in the six
months to December to exceed
that for the previous six months
by about 23 per cent. While a
tendency to exaggerate is
inherent in such expectations,
they are rather more expansive
than for some time.
“The raising of new money
in the capital-market has con-
tinued to be remarkably
buoyant and has been accom-
panied by a boom on the Stock
Exchange, which parallels
sharemarket trends in other
countries. Although share
prices have paused recently,
their movement over the past
year in many respects has gone
absurdly out of perspective and
shows many signs of a
dangerous degree of specula-
tive fever. Whether the dynamic
of the boom is an optimistic
hope of capital-appreciation or
a cautious hedge against future
inflation, it has moved to the
limit which disclosed earning-
power can support and predi-
cates a degree of physical
expansion in the economy
which in the immediate future
at any rate would be difficult
to foresee.”
The immediate effect of these
well-warranted warnings was to
bring a pause in the share-
market exuberance which was
beginning to reassert itself after
the November setback.
From £lOO to £2695
VX/Tth the 10s. shares in
’ * Minster, Ltd., at 775. last
week, the sharemarket valua-
tion of this rubber-based West-
minster - carpet enterprise
becomes over £8 million.
The valuation of each share,
on a pound-for-pound capital
basis, ranks closely with that
for Melbourne “Herald” scrip
among the highest-priced shares
in the Commonwealth.
Going back to the beginning
(November 29, 1946), the share-
holders who put-up the original
£250,000 of paid capital got
a one-for-one bonus-issue even
before divs. started to flow —
the bonus-scrip was issued as
at March 19, 1951, and a 10
p.c. div. was paid for 1950-51.
Later (in 1957) there was a
three-for-four bonus-issue.
The holder of 100 original
£1 shares who has retained his
holdings now has 700 10s
shares, which have a total


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. \V. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWJH7I <3 tines 1 BT.-K327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX.” Sydnev
Cope York
x
QUEENSLAND
Tk
\
it
★Jr
NEW SOUTH WALES ]
*Vr^
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Established 1885.
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States—New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Allmry, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
UT23C
market-value, at 775. each, 'of
£2695, which cost him only
£lOO.
In addition, he would have
received £335 in dividends.
He has been asked for no
further cash to help finance the
undertaking, all the trebling of
capacity since the first unit was
installed having been financed
Out of ploughed-back profits,
which last year were just under
50 p.c. on capital, and out of
which a 20 p.c. dividend was
paid.
The subsidiary, Westminster
Carpets Pty., Ltd., has perfected
its method of producing rubber-
based carpets at Dandenong
(Vic.), and is now building-up
an export-trade with North
America. It has also installed
a gamma-sterilisation plant
which has immediate value in
the carpet industry, as well as
interesting future possibilities.
The whole enterprise has run
smoothly and profitably —
almost like automation —since
production began on July 12,
1949, and has justified the
most sanguine hopes of its
market supporters. At 775. a
share, however, one wonders
what they can possibly be
anticipating now!
Fenwick Holdings, Ltd.
/“Yperating two diesel-engined
tugs, two oil-burners and
six other tugs, as well as a
water-lighter, J. Fenwick and
Co. Pty., working-co. for
Fenwick Holdings, Ltd.,
Sydney, has been able to show
its shareholders a nice profit-
return in the two lots of
accounts issued since the public
float in May, 1958.
For 1957-58 profits were
equal to 33 p.c. on the
£150,000 capital of the holding-
co.; for 1958-59 the rate rose
to 40.7 p.c. Dividends for the
two years were 10 p.c. and
p.c. respectively.
The latest twin-screw tug, the
Sirius Cove, although it arrived
from the U.K. only in March,
has already turned-out to be
“a useful and economical addi-
tion to the co.’s fleet.”
Fixed assets have a very con-
servative valuation in the
accounts —including the new
tug, a net £379,467 (after
deducting fleet-replacement re-
serve of £132,857). Reserves,
at £190,161, are higher than
capital, but are subject to
goodwill on consolidation of
£50,000. But it is clear from
a study of the accounts that
true reserves are well above
those admitted to.
The obstacle to a higher
flow of divs. from the co. is
that the directors always keep
in mind “the need for future
fleet-replacements,” which in
the past they have indicated
may only be financed by “the
retention of adequate profits
to supplement fleet-replacement
reserve.” With this in view,
after ascertaining last year’s
profit (depreciation charged
was £13,720), the board trans-
ferred a third of it (£20,000) to
reserve for increased cost of
fleet-replacement. But even at
that there was carried to free
reserves, after paying the
increased 12y p.c. div., a sum
equal to 15 p.c. on capital.
Following the increase in the
div. the sharemarket has shown
a high regard for the ss. shares,
having lifted them from around
11s. to 18s. At the present
price the earnings-yield is 11J
p.c., but the dividend-yield
slightly under 34 p.c.
It seems to be a case where
patience might be well re-
warded. The co. overcame a
rather pressing problem earlier
this year by joining with
Adelaide Steam in buying part
of Chapman’s branch of the
Mort’s Dock Co., including the
patent slipway. This will be
able to handle the normal
servicing of the co.’s fleet of
tugs, which operate in Sydney
Harbor, at Newcastle and
Port Kembla.
Eclipse Gold Mines, N.L.
Production from the treat-
A ment-plant of Eclipse Gold
Mines, N.L., began in
August, 1958, but until the
water used in the mill was
treated and sand-clarifiers
installed, gold-precipitation was
not efficient. Afterwards recov-
eries were normal.
For the term to July 7, 1959,
6804 tons of ore was treated
for average recoveries of
28.3dwt. (93 p.c.). Gold pro-
ceeds (from 95990 z.) and
sundry income brought in
£149,898 ; mine - production
expenditure was £90,671 ;
administration £9412. Net
profit was £49,815 (after
charging £16,114 development
expenditure) on paid capital of
£252,000.
Up to July 7, 1959, a further
£41,055 net of development and
prospecting had been capitalised,
a rise of £2430 during the year.
(This addition represented cost
of completing the shaft to the
620 ft. level). Mine property
(near Mt. Magnet, W.A.) then
figured at £90,687, buildings
and plant at £137,554. With
stores, stocks, bullion, cash, etc.,
at £31,988, and liabilities at
£8455, a first dividend of 4 {d.
per stock-unit (£37,800) has
been declared.
The prospectus spoke of
proved, broken and probable
ore of 14,460 tons averaging
38dwt. Costs were put at 2475.
a ton, and estimated profit at
2935. a ton. Total profit in sight
was put at £212,000, estimated
to be won within two years
from start of production.
Costs have been the factor
nearest to estimates —2615. 6d.
a ton in the final seven four-
weekly periods of the year. Ore
reserves, after extraction of last
year’s 6,804 tons, are put at
5000 tons going 35dwt. “The
reasonably proved ore reserves
at July 7 are sufficient only to
ensure a limited productive


'
IS THS44 4 MfKKISSY IK THt HOUSI?
\ i
' >- - *
-
-M
Everybody looks up to
HENNESSY
COGNAC BRANDY
I
A
If*
Iff
«5S
HIR
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ELIZABETH ANNE DIXON other-
wise known as ELIZABETH ANNE
DALTON.—TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM ARTHUR DIXON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2574 of
1959 on the ground of desertion by you
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 9th Feb-
ruary 1960 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
A. J. P. HALL & HALL, Solicitors,
90 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. E. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Bring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
life,” the board says. Prospec-
ting and development have been
disappointing, and there is a
pressing need to find more ore
of the kind currently being
treated.
It should be remembered,
however, that the neighboring
mine, the splendid Hill 50,
passed through a poor zone
before opening-up again be-
tween 1000 ft. and 1500 ft. The
same thing might happen on
Eclipse.
The deepest point in the
Eclipse mine at present is the
bottom of the shaft at 620 ft.
Prospecting below that depth
could possibly be successful.
In the meantime, Eclipse prob-
ably will search for other ore-
bodies in the same locality, or
other mining opportunities in
other localities, so long as its
money holds out.
Betoota
[From 1,. Owen]
HThe decision to cease drilling
in Innamincka No. 1 well
was regretted by most geologists
—including those who did not
consider the location satisfac-
tory —who realise the enormous
value of deep drilling in the (as
yet) almost unexplored lower
Palaeozoic of the Great Arte-
sian Basin. The reasons given
for stopping the work at this
most interesting stage in the
operations were the exception-
ally thick sedimentary encoun-
tered in the Palaeozoic and the
finding of strata with “relatively
steep dips”—presumably in
the lower part of the section.
Neither of these explanations
carries much weight. The
5496 ft. thick section in the
Innamincka well might have
been bottomed at any time, and
the remaining 1363 ft. required
to reach the originally scheduled
depth of 14,000 ft. would, at
worst, have provided very
valuable data. Assuming that
the dip amounted to as much
as 45 degrees, drilling to that
depth would additionally pene-
trate the stratigraphical equiva-
lent of flat beds 964 ft. thick.
The Betoota well, to be
spudded-in this month, is
described as being located on
an anticline (delineated by
seismic survey and, presumably,
in post-Palseozoic beds) which
“offers a compact drilling
target.” Much the same was
said about Innamincka!
If, as is probable, the Inna-
minckan “good reflective
horizon” is encounted in the
upper Palaeozoic beds at
Betoota, its form will give no
better guidance to that of the
underlying beds.
Although Betoota has
already been granted a substan-
tial subsidy—rather surpris-
ingly, in view of the exclusion
from benefit of “drilling aimed
at testing domes or other suit-
able structures” —it is likely to
qualify for legitimate aid, under
the latest amendment to the
Petroleum Subsidy Act, when,
like Innamincka, it becomes
“off-structure” by entering
strata showing “relatively high
dips.” Incidentally, the vague
term “off-structure” requires
definition to restrict its appli-
cation to something less than
any kind of wildcat well.
The Weston Empire
A llied Bakeries, Ltd., of
London, representing the
empire built-up by W. Garfield
Weston, is changing its name
to British Associated Foods,
Ltd., because of the wide
diversification of its activities
for which it has become noted
both in the United Kingdom
and Australia. It has also
decided to give its non-voting
“B” shareholders equal voting-
rights with the “A’s”.
On sales of £125 million,
Allied Bakeries last year made
a profit of £3.3 million sterling,
after a similar amount of tax,
and setting aside an equal
amount for depreciation. After
paying 18 p.c. on all ords.
(21 p.c. is forecast for the
present year), the group
ploughed-back nearly £5.2
million, including the deprecia-
tion allowance.
Chairman W. Garfield
Weston told shareholders at the
annual meeting on November
27 that, within the company,
and within each operating
division of the company,
production policies are based
on expansion, on extension, on
re-equipment and on diversi-
fication. Diversification had
been a source of the co.’s
strength during recent difficult
trading conditions in the U.K.
Mr. Weston added that in
Britain, in Australia and South
Africa the co. was among the
leaders in every one of its
major activities—in bread, in
biscuits, cakes, ice-cream and
other foods. It has recently
bought into the wholesale
grocery and margarine-manu-
facturing industry. Further:
Overseas, in Australia, New
Zealand and South Africa, we have
expanded our bakery, biscuit and
ice-cream businesses. The vast
technical “know-how” that has
been developed in this country is
readily made available to our over-
seas companies, to their great
advantage, and, in addition we are
allowing them to retain for expan-
sion and re-equipment the whole of
their available profits. We have
had some wonderful results from
these overseas companies and,
indeed, look forward to more great
progress by them in the years to
come.
The Weston group came to
Australia first through the
purchase of control of Gartrell,
White, Ltd., the N.S.W. baking
concern. Later on they
acquired Joyce Biscuits and
additional bakeries.
They activated the trend
among Australian millers to-
wards the purchase of bakeries
and investment in other indus-
tries, with the result that
several of our leading millers
have now diversified their
activities to the extent of run-
ning bakery-chains, controlling
margarine-manufacture, edible
oils, other allied industries, as
well as their more traditional
activities of flourmilling and
making stock-food and farin-
aceous groceries and laundry-
starch.
This policy of diversification
is still going on in and around
the flourmilling business.
Though there is no Australian
investment interest in the
Weston group, its results both
here and overseas are interest-
ing to investors in our own
flourmilling concerns. (The
Weston group, incidentally,
is not primarily a flourmiller,
if it mills any at all.)


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
SUNDRY
SHOWS
"THE DOLL" ON FILM
TThe Americans have made a
superb film of “The Doll”
(Sydney Century); they have
given it a better texture than
the play. All the loose ends
that Lawler, writing a master-
piece—and a masterpiece is
rarely perfect—could not draw
together have been drawn to-
gether by John Dighton’s
screenplay. The fall of ’Roo
(Ernest Borgnine) from leader-
ship of the cane-gang is
pointed-up by making young
Bubba’s lover the young man
who has taken ’Roo’s place.
Bubba’s price for being kind
to him is the reinstatement of
’Roo as head of the gang.
The disclosure of this to
’Roo sets-off the fine scene
where ’Roo rejects the whole
set-up and confesses for the
first time his failure as gang-
leader and Barney’s failure as
a great lover, and forces the
realisation on Olive (Anne
Baxter) that they are all grow-
ing old.
The script then follows the
play, Anne Baxter and Borgnine
giving most powerful perform-
ances ; she spitting and raging
like a frustrated child, he
saddened as much for her sake
as for his own. It is doubtful
whether in the play the life-
force was seen so clearly to be
dying so terribly, in the con-
vulsions of two personalities
unused to admitting defeat.
It was at this point, when one
was reviewing the book of the
play, that one felt Mr. Lawler
had been a clever, but not
a human, dramatist in insisting
on tragedy to avoid a happy
ending. But what is the real
tragedy of life but its accep-
tance of defeat, and the real
tragedy of love but that it ends
in marriage? And when you
have two people who have all
through a play shown a sense
of humor, how can you have
them walking-out on each
other in circumstances which
a sense of humor was made to
reconcile? And without such
reconciliations how could any
marriage be possible?
One has argued this point,
since first writing about it, with
actors -and critics. Ah, they
say, but Olive was an abnormal,
a perverted type. The early
part of the play makes no
suggestion of it —so, all in all,
“Of course, I Was much younger when he did it ."
when ’Roo went back in the
film from seeing Barney off in
the train, and Olive began cry-
ing into the beer she handed
him across the bar, it was as
good a Christmas-present as
the present reviewer has had.
In this way an abnormal
tragedy has been made into a
universal comedy. You could
say as much about the treat-
ment of the language and the
people: Borgnine may look
more like an Australian when
migration has had more effect
here, but he filled the part
well; and if Anne Baxter has
a less-lined face than a woman
of Olive’s age, she made it do
a creditable set of Australian
expressions with a looseness
and a broad charm that
showed considerable study of
Australian models ; while John
Mills was admirably in charac-
ter as the tough, bare-chested
little canecutter.
The language has been simi-
larly universalised; Austra-
lianisms that do not explain
themselves have been cut out
—and, although the setting
has been changed from Mel-
bourne to Sydney, the film is
a treatise on the treatment of
the Australian scene: it is all
there, the Bridge, the Harbor,
the Manly boat, Bondi Beach,
Luna Park, a bar-room and,
of course, a terrace-interior;
but it is never intruded as
scenery ; it is always the neces-
sary background, and nothing
more.
Angela Lansbury, as the
glassy-eyed, reluctant Pearl,
gave perhaps a better character-
isation than Anne Baxter,
who tends to carry both
faults and successes on the
flood of her rare vivacity.
Ethel Gabriel remains in the
film, like a guarantee of
authenticity a magnificently
dour old mother. Vincent Ball
makes a fine job of his written-
up part of the young boss-
canecutter ; and Janette Craig
is charming and right as young
Bubba.
The big interpolated scene
at Luna Park, where Borgnine
takes-on a sideshow-wrestler,
goes off with a bang (though
one didn’t know they had
wrestling sideshows there),
especially the episode of the
little girl who asked Borgnine
not to beat her father because
her mother was in hospital.
Altogether, it is a credit to
its director, Leslie Norman —
a film which, though certainly
different from its play, is
probably better.
R. McC.
Other Films
“Yesterday’s Enemy”
The problem is, do you sac-
rifice civilian lives to save your
soldiers? Set in the jungles of
Burma in 1943, this is a fine
British film with some eerie
jungle-warfare and some tense
scenes with the Japs. Stanley
Baker is the tough British
captain and Australian actor
Leo McKern, as a war-corre-
spondent, and Guy Rolfe, as
a padre, give strong support.
At Sydney Victory.
❖ ❖ *
“Girls’ Town”
This melodrama at Sydney
St. James starts with some
promise of intelligent examina-
tion of the problem of teenage-
girl delinquency and the refor-
matory work of a religious
institution. But the director
quickly allows the story to bog-
down in a morass of false senti-
ment ; character is neglected
for sensationalism ; and the


IN VIEW OF THE INCREASE
IN POSTAGE CHARGES,
TAXATION, AND THE
HIGH COST OP
EYERyTHING.,
HERES
WISHING,
YOU
A Merry
Christmas
FOR 1959,1960,1961,
1962,1965, AND 1964,
AFTER WHICH YOU
MAY HEAR FROM <
m
s J&v.
7
&
This Ted Scorfield cartoon is now available as a
CHRISTMAS CARD —the size as here reproduced, printed
in bronze-blue on white card. Time is short, so write
immediately to The Bulletin Card Dept., Box 2521,
G.P.O., Sydney. Price: 5s. a dozen ( minimum ) including
postage.
religious types are presented
rather as skit-characters.
The “heroine” is limned
almost up to the final fade-out
as viciously incorrigible ; then
her redemption is effected
instanter as the immediate
aftermath to Schubert’s “Ave
Maria” sissily yawped by a
youthful crooner.
Artbursts
Christmas Abstracts
The Clune Galleries at
Sydney’s King’s Cross offers a
neat-enough collection of
abstracts, but at least three
postmen would be needed to
dispatch Erie Smith’s monu-
mental “Christ at the
Column”: it is about 10ft. high,
roughly 4ft. wide ; a huge,
regularly designed, non-func-
tional piece of work, with a
black figure at the top almost
but not quite forming part of
the design.
This raises the question of
functionalism. Presumably
some of the paintings will be
sold and given as presents;
but where on earth would you
hang Peter Laverty’s big black
“Wet Night, King’s Cross,”
which implies that this cosmo-
politan centre has been visited
by a dark plague? Or Rapotec’s
two rather messy pieces? Or
Roy Fluke’s “Tiger,” which,
while exciting enough, might
startle people dropping-in for
afternoon-tea? Or Elwyn
Lynn’s “Lunarscape,” which, if
you didn’t know anything
about the surfaces of planets,
might make you think twice
before signing-on for a space-
flight?
All in all, the two most
interesting bits of composition
are Judy Cassab’s “Arcades,”
in which a sense of progression
from a given viewpoint to a
definite conclusion is heigh-
tened by pleasantly cloudy use
of color ; and Margo Lewers’s
delicate little “Black Abstract.”
Both of these could be given
without worry, but only if
you’ve got a spare 135gns. As
for the rest, Carl Plate gets a
certain olive charm in “Pro-
gressive” and some fresh light
color in “Quiet Pursuit” ; John
Passmore has a lot of watery
swirling in his large “Sea
Forms”; Peter Laverty’s two
pencil-sketches of King’s Cross,
while slight, have quite a bit of
swift appeal; and John Coburn
is still experimenting with
orange shapes.
DIVISION
As children the years that wind so long for children
Wound along between us; we scarcely spoke together.
One end of time’s cord was shyness and one a grandeur
Of three years older — football, algebra, Latin.
I would have said we scarcely knew each other
Till, thrown together in a forest of spouses and strangers,
Came ravelling-up from childhood strands of time,
Of French-and-English, hide-and-seek in a garden.
And giggling tea-time in a nursery with a Nanny and a fire
For us to plait and fashion as a thread to guide us
Gaily through that forest, and, excuse-to the trees:
“We were childhood friends,” we cried, and lied to each
other.
Truly we have come to believe it; see, our children
Scramble together in a gardeft. Mine are younger
But, “Isn’t it good to see them happy together!”
We say, and beam, deluded as our parents before us.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
Stage and Music
McDermott String-quartet
Melbourne is lucky to have
Paul McDermott’s string-
quartet: in three exceptionally
humid nights over the past
fortnight they have brought
the Assembly Hall to life.
To this reviewer the high
point of the three concerts was
the opening-night perform-
ance of Beethoven’s Opus 59,
No. 1, although he is not alto-
gether sure whether this was
as much due to ,a long-standing
affection for this superb work,
as to McDermott and Co.’s
skilled rendering of it.
In Mozart’s introspective
moments in the D Minor
quartet, K. 421, the life
seemed to go out of the music,
but perhaps the heat was to
blame.
Ravel’s F Major Quartet,
heard at the final concert,
found the ensemble back to
something like its best with
a performance which was full
of assurance, imagination and
delicacy.
John Kennedy, who has
replaced Thomas Howley as
the ’cellist of the group,
brought a broad and vibrant
tone and magnificent control
of rhythm.
* * ❖
“The Gazebo”
The real issues of life get
hardly a sideways glance,
character is blatantly sacrificed
to the intricate demands of
plot, credibility to a laughs-at-
all-costs policy, etc., etc. —and
yet, despite all this, on its own
unashamedly corn-comic level
“The Gazebo” is really quite
a success.
It would be unwise to find
fault with Alec Coppel—the
author of this latest Melbourne
Comedy offering—for failing to
achieve something he never
tried to achieve. What he has
done, and done with the unmis-
takable flourish of the thorough
professional—he is, in fact,
an old hand at screen- and play-
writing in America, where he is
now domiciled—is to produce
first and foremost a lively,
untroubled evening of -enter-
tainment.
Here he presents a dozen
stock characters, differentiates
them by peculiarities of circum-
stance rather than behavior,
lumps them all together in a
suitably suspenseful and para-
doxical situation and colors-in
the rest with a great con-
glomeration of wisecracks and
homely sentimentalities about
love, modcons and weight-
reducing diets, plus curious
allusions to the notoriety and
wise-wit of Oscar Wilde (“The
only thing I find hard to resist
is temptation”).
The basic situation is this:
Elliott Nash, American TV-
scriptwriter, has been paying
out overlarge sums of money to
a blackmailer who has informa-
tion (to wit, that Mrs. Nash
was given to smoking mariju-
ana in her teens) which Elliott
believes —forgetful of its valu-
able publicity potential—could
ruin his actress-wife’s career.
Inspired by the various TV


y
\J>
JL
I
/
- r
S/
l
&
*■ _+■
SERVICE . . .
at 186,000 miles per second!
Rapid communication is the lifeline of modern business. Waugh & Josephson Pty. Limited
is one of the few private companies equipped with a time-saving Telex system. This direct method of
communication sends transcribed messages at the speed of light, and automatically types
them at the receiving end. The Telex links W & J's head office, each of its branches and interstate
Caterpillar dealers' offices into one close-knit organisation. This assures that wherever your
machine is in N.S.W. and whatever its need, the entire Australia-wide Caterpillar dealer network is at
your service. It's one of the many reasons why W & J is unmatched for after-sales service.
There isn't another organisation in the field that offers you—
Kp\|
SID
★ BRANCHES AT SEVEN COUNTRY CENTRES ★ RESIDENT SERVICEMEN STRATEGICALLY LOCATED
★ SEVEN MODERN BRANCH WORKSHOPS ★ THE RIGHT TOOLS FOR THE RIGHT JOB ★ SPECIALIST
SERVICEMEN ★ STOCKPILE OF GENUINE CATERPILLAR REPLACEMENT PARTS ★ A FULL
90-DAY WARRANTY ON ALL SERVICE REPAIRS.
—sl—
REMEMBER: Regular service is the
key to profitable performance. Why
not ring W & J and get a complete
inspection on your machine to-day?
m
■si
■
CATERPILLAR
•CATERPILLAR, CAT ond TRAXCAVATOR are Registered Trademarks
of Caterpillar Trattor Co., U.S.A.
TRACTORS, MOTOR GRADERS, EARTHMOVING EQUIP-
MENT, INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE DIESEL ENGINES,
BZK
Sold, serviced and backed to the hilt in N.S.W. by:
WAUGH 6l JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
tumuA\
WJ23I-115
m
Head Office: Mitchell Road, Alexandria, Sydney. 'Phone: LA 6631.
Branches at Gunnedah, 'phone 326; Parkes, 'phone 1266; Wagga, 'phone
8237; South Grafton, 'phone 392; inverell, 'phone 1400; Cooma, 'phone 657;
Moree, 'phone 208.


watch his eyes
LIGHT UP
when you give him a
soB**°* 1
fhis Christmas
RHili
Barling Briar Pipes are cuf from rare roots of
great age. Only the finest grains are selected.
There is no “breaking in" and, to ensure free
draught, only the finest vulcanite is bored.
Give him a Barling—he'll be delighted.
Obtainable from all Leading
Tobacconists
Trade enquiries: Box 502, G.P.0., Sydney.
m
soap-operas he has created,
Elliott decides on a foolproof
method by which to rid himself
of the blackmailer. He will
shoot him, then bury him in
the cement foundations of his
newly acquired Gazebo (a sort
of ornate, gilded sun-house).
By mistake he shoots the
blackmailer’s accomplice
instead ; later thinks that per-
haps it was one of his own
relatives ; and is badgered by
his friend, Harlow Edison, the
locaff D.A. investigating the
murder of the blackmailer.
(The blackmailer, too, has been
shot, but here the guilty party
was not Elliott, as Elliott him-
self believed at one stage ; it
was the now-dead accomplice.
Complicated?)
It all ends happily, of course,
with an affectionate confes-
sional scene, ' climaxed by
Elliott (who, incidentally, is
supposed to be “a typical
emasculated American male
fighting for his virility”) falling
with a rush of tender and help-
less emotion into the arms of
his ever-sympathetic wife.
As said before, on its own
level “The Gazebo” is really
quite good entertainment. And
this is due almost entirely to
the efforts of its co-principals,
Derek Farr and Muriel Pavlow.
Farr conveyed throughout
that he thoroughly enjoyed his
role, that he was always at ease
and not in any way put out by
its thick coating of superfici-
ality. Altogether he gave a
delightful performance. Like-
wise Miss Pavlow, who proved
a most charming foil to the
antics of her husband.
A.S.J.
THE SHAKSPEARE GIMMICK
[From London]
V/fozART boasted that his com-
positions were perfect in
construction, with not one note
too many or too few. It is
fortunate for his memory that
music is a purer art than the
theatre. If conductors were of
the same inventiveness as
Shakspearian producers they
would not only cut (judiciously)
but they would shift the order
of the passages, substitute saxo-
phones for clarinets, interpolate
a phrase from Cimarosa, mess
about with the harmonies and,
altogether, take special care
that no new performance bore
any resemblance to a previous
one -
Within limits, this attitude is
natural and healthy: it demon-
strates the energy, youthfulness
and virility of the theatre. But
it has gone too far. Now Peter
Hall, the youngest-ever director
of the Stratford Memorial
Theatre, has boldly announced
his policy in advance. Believing
that “Shakspeare needs a style
and tradition more than any
other dramatist performed to-
day,” he hopes “to create a
style which is recognisable as
Stratford’s, and to reinterpret
the plays in terms of that style.”
Supposing, for example, that
Leonard Bernstein were to take-
over the conductorship of the
Vienna Philharmonic and to
declare his intention of creat-
j n g a recognisable style in the
playing of Mozart? And Eng-
lish actors have had two hun-
dred years’ start on Viennese
musicians!
Hall denies the existence pf a
“Do you mind if I sit the other side of the
French-horn section?”
good tradition of verse-speak-
ing in this country: all that
passes for it is “a loud and
emotionally indulgent boom-
ing.” \Vas this the inheritance
of Forbes-Robertson, Ainley,
Evans, Gielgud, Ashcroft,
Olivier, Guinness and Red-
grave? And is it true, as Hall
affirms, that our great actors
have transcended this tradition
rather than assimilated it?
It is not true. The essence
of the matter is the nature of
the present-day demand for
“culture.” Playing Shakspeare
was once the actor’s apprentice-
ship, with tights the uniform
of his profession, and voice and
gesture, supported by tradit-
ional production, the essence of
his art.
But now Shakspeare is big
business, an important con-
comitant of the tourist industry.
A company of enthusiastic
youngsters, reinforced by three
or four old-hands and working
on a shoestring, can no longer
compete with other forms of
entertainment. For economic
as well as for prestige reasons
the theatre must be filled. So,
in one way or another, produc-
tions have to be sumptuous.
This is evident in the current
offering at the Old Vic —
“Richard II,” which is at once
glittering, dynamic and, in
parts, luxuriant. Besides
fantastic costumes (the joust-
ing-scene, for instance, is pre-
dominantly Oxford and Cam-
bridge Blues) the music is so
atmospheric that the battle
takes place to flutter-tongued
trumpets ; birds twitter as the
Queen enters ; she speaks over
an accompaniment of plucked
strings; Richard’s Pomfret
soliloquy is heard to obbligato
squeaks ; and on the cyclorama
the moon, dutifully and comi-
cally answers its cue.
On several occasions action
and characterisation are flag-
rantly opposed to the text, but
all passes-off brilliantly and
with great clarity. The guest-
director (Val May) has also
given his own slant to the play
by the it-hurts-me-more-than-
it-hurts-you attitude of Boling-
broke (played with soft nobility
by George Baker) towards John
Justin’s Richard —an emascu-
lated and brainwashed Hamlet,
as it were.
Robert Harris is a tradi-
tional, finely-mettled Gaunt,
and Joss Ackland a ruthless,
debauched Northumberland.
But many of the others can do
little more than come to terms
with their parts and with the
trappings.
This is not the actors’ nor the
scholars’ nor the purists’ Shak-
speare. It is the producer’s—
and, quite possibly, the
people’s.
HERBERT HOLMAN.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 ritt Street, Sydney. Telephone: Bff 1771—8 W 808 S
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale”
PATRICK & COMPANY
Sydney.
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. JLEVY
scrcoKxaa a v
ovmvoa t •« k
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange .
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bitumen and Oil Refineries (Aust.)
"Oopularly known as Boral, Bitumen
and Oil Refineries (Australia), Ltd.,
was launched in 1946 with massive sup-
port from the powerful California Texas
Corporation of U.S.A. (Caltex), which
took-up 40 p.c. of ords. and had also
contracted to supply up to 1,000,000
barrels of crude oil annually.
Major capital-expansion occurred in
1955, when two simultaneous share-
issues, bonus (one-for-five) and cash
(two-for-five), raised Boral’s ord. capital
to £2,000,000. In 1956 the co. brought-
in another £500,000 in 7-8 p.c. redeem-
able prefs. The 20s. f.-p. prefs. are
redeemable at Boral’s option at 225. 6d.
any time between July 1, 1961, and June
30, a.d.2000.
Boral’s business is operated efficiently
and profitably (when the oil-market con-
ditions permit). The co. produces petrol,
gas-making and fuel oil and bitumen
from its large modern refinery at Matra-
ville, near Sydney. .A wholly-owned
subsidiary, Queensland Oil Refineries
Pty. (set-up in 1954), runs a smaller
refinery in Brisbane and operates a bulk-
bitumen terminal at Townsville (Q.). It
is mainly engaged in production of
bituminous products and road-construc-
tion work. Activities of Boral’s second
subsidiary, W. B. Carr Constructions
Pty. (also wholly-owned), operating in
Victoria and N.S.W., are similar in
nature.
In addition, Boral has a substantial
interest in Petroleum and Chemical
Corp. of Australia Ltd. (known as
Paccal) and supplies that concern with
residual oils used for gas-making under
a long-term agreement.
It was originally intended that Boral’s
Matraville oil-refinery would be mainly
concerned with production of bitumen,
but soon after commencing operations
in 1948 its range of products was ex-
panded to include motor-spirit, aviation-
gasoline, diesel-distillates, etc. Caltex at
first strongly opposed this expansion,
which involved a long-term contract with
the old Anglo-Iranian (now 8.P.). After
spirited exchanges, agreement was reached
on the matter. In 1952 a catalytic-
reformer (platformer) unit was installed.
At present the relations between Boral
and its 40 p.c.-shareholder are good and
constructive.
Results for 1958-59 indicate that Boral
had weathered the financial storm caused
by the Commonwealth Government’s
lifting of primage on imported gasoline
and other refined oils in 1957. This had
the effect of removing an important pro-
tection fence for domestic refiners, and,
coupled by a fall in world oil-prices,
resulted in a loss in net earnings of
about 25 p.c. in 1958. Last year showed
a marked improvement in business and
profits, but the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s adoption, in September, 1959, of
the Tariff Board’s report (suggesting a
further dismantling of the protection-
barrier), is viewed by the co. with con-
siderable concern.
Sales-volume last term was higher than
in the previous year, mainly due to in-
creased output from the expanding
Matraville plant. The co.’s selling-prices
for refined products and the landed cost
of crude oil “showed favorable improve-
ment” during the latter half of the year
under review, and resulted in a higher
earning-capacity.
Contrary to its former practice. Boral
did not disclose the earnings of its two
subsidiaries. Queensland Oil Refineries
Pty. was said to have “well maintained”
its profits with increased sales. The sub-
sidiary is continuing to expand its bulk
bitumen-distribution facilities in various
centres in the Sunshine State.
Operations of the second subsidiary,
W. B. Carr Constructions Pty., seemed
to have been less successful, and “re-
sulted in a decrease in profits due to a
reduction in turnover.” However, the
profits earned were said to be “regarded
as satisfactory.”
All in all, consolidated net profit for
the year ended June 30, 1959, presented
a happier picture than in the previous
term, climbing-up by £70,154 (or 20.3
p.c.) to £413,959:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends To Re- - Re-
June, Profit. Pref. r~ Ord. serves. serves.*
7-8 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Intangibles written-off, £40,405
’50..231,301 8p.e.=100,000 131,301 \
Intangibles written-off, £53,337 .. )
’51..233,597 12ip.c.=156,250 77,347 ) ■ ,00<s
’52..367,723 15p.c.=187,500 150,223 ) o„-
Intangibles written-off, £423 .. ] ’ >a
’53..370,704 15p.c.=187,500 183.204 518,657
'54..473,478 15 „,. 187,500 285,978 804,635
Revaluation fixed assets, £250,000 .. 1,054,635
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 804,635
Profit sale land, £2725 .. .. 807,360
Prelim, expenses written-off, £4842.. 802,518
’55..515,098 15p.c.=243,750 271,348 1,073,866
’56..465,711 15 „., 300,000 165,711 1,239,577
Share-issue expenses w/off, £22,770.. 1,216,807
’57..459,582 38,885 15p.c.=300,000 120,697 1,337,504
’58..343,805 40,000 15 „ „ 300,000 3,805 1,341,309
’59..413,959 40,000 15 ~,,300,000 73,959 1,415,268
* Subject to intangibles, written-off 30/6/’55.
The figure was arrived at after charging
all operating and administrative expenses,
including £339,314 depreciation (up
£67,685) and paying £273,632 tax (up
£67,882).
The earning-rate on ord. capital was
almost 18.7 p.c. (after 8 p.c. to the prefs.),
compared with 15.2 p.c. in the previous
term and 21, 23.2, 31.6 and 37.8 p.c.
looking back over four years to 1954.
The unchanged 15 p.c. div. on ords.
took-up £300,000, leaving £73,959 for
reserves (against £3805) in 1958.
Paid-up capital was unaltered at
£2,500,000 (in 2,000,000 20s. ords. and
£500,000 7-8 p.c. prefs.). Liabilities in-
clude £1,000,000 debentures with City
Mutual Life. Another £2,000,000 8 p.c.
registered unsecured notes are currently
being issued (at par), with optional
currency of eight or twelve years, pref.
and ord. shareholders enjoying priority
in their applications up to £750,000.
Coming after the books for the last term
were ruled-off, this note-issue did not
affect last year’s accounts:
C'OXSOLIDATED BALANCE-SHEET.
Capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Prof £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Ord 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Reserves .. 1,337,501 1,311,309 1,115,268
Debentures .. 700,000 1,000.000 1,000,000
Creditors .. 1,586,809 2,598,066 2,232,723
Tax provision .. 402,139 218,259 273,407
Final dividend .. 170,000 170,000 170,000
£6,696,452 £7,828,234 £7,591,398
Land, refinery, etc. 3,823,726 4,140,765' 4,492,532
Shares . . .. 325,000 325,000 325,000
Stocks .. .. 1,411,746 1,596,219 1,690,495
Debtors .. .. 1,084,208 1,128,632 1,052,354
Cash, etc. .. 21,772 37,588 31,017
£6,690,452 £7,828,234 £7,591,398
Funds obtained from the note-issue will
be employed to finance the purchase and
erection of a fluid catalytic cracking-
unit at Matraville, to be used for con-
verting heavy oil to gasoline. Installa-
tion of this unit will step-up production
of gasoline and allow a better adjust-
ment of refinery products to market-
demand. Construction of the new unit
is expected to be completed by the end
of 1961.
Last term the book-value of fixed
assets (shown at £5,956,176, less accumu-
lated depreciation and amortisation pro-
visions totalling £1,463,644) was £51,767
higher at £4,492,532. Visible capital-
expenditure amounted to £391,081.
Stocks and book-debts together declined
by £282,032. Creditors fell by £365,943
to £2,232,723.
Theoretical working-capital improved
slightly (by £22,192) to £97,736, with
the current ratio at 1.03 to 1. Net
tangible assets-backing worked out at
£7 16s. 7d. per 20s. pref. and £1 14s. 2d.
a 20s. ord. unit.
Situation on the whole looks reason-
ably promising for the current year, but
it is hard to say how far the further
reduction of protection will affect sales
and earnings. The co.’s future depends
to a very great extent on factors beyond
its control. The world oil-markets are
operating under the shadow of possible
dumping by the Soviet Union (which
had upset the tin-market, not so long
ago, but then reversed its policy and
co-operated in restoring stability). The


Soviet Union is able to produce oil
cheaply from its Caspian oil-fields, with-
out the burden of huge royalty pay-outs.
What its policy is going to be is any-
body’s guess.
Another important factor is the
Federal Government’s tariff policy,
which normally doesn’t favor extensive
protection of relatively high-cost in-
dustries.
Boral enjoys an unblemished reputa-
tion for consistent payment of 15 p.c.
divs., even in its leanest years, ever since
1952, and this gives encouragement
during present uncertain trading-condi-
tions. At the last sale the 20s. ords.
changed hands at 58s. 6d., yielding 5.1
p.c. on the basis of a steady 15 p.c. div.
Pope Industries, Ltd.
/Continuous growth and expansion of
productive capacity in a wide range
of products were the main factors behind
Pope’s recent moves to increase note-
and share-capital.
In October, 1958, the co. called-up
unpaid capital, collecting £204,000.
In May, 1959, Pope issued 1,120,000
ss. ords., payable 2s. 6d. a share on
application (the balance callable during
the latter half of 1960). In addition, the
co. made a private placement of £250,000
7 p.c. prefs., redeemable at 235. a share
at the co.’s option after June 30, 1966,
on six months’ notice. As a result of
these moves paid capital was increased
to £1,260,000 ords. plus £650,000 prefs.
as at June 30, 1959.
Following this, the co. issued
£1,000,000 7| p.c. registered unsecured
notes, shareholders having a priority of
allotment up to £300,000.
Founded in a garage at Croydon, an
Adelaide suburb, in 1925, Pope Indus-
tries, Ltd., was established in its present
form in 1945, concentrating at first on
manufacture of sprinklers, irrigation-
equipment, hand-tools, etc.
Rapid development followed, and
today Pope is one of Australia’s leading
producers of refrigerators, washing-
machines, TV-receivers, stereophonic
sound-systems, electric motors, rotary
lawn-mowers, garden-sprinklers and air-
conditioning appliances, in addition to
the original lines. The co. also manufac-
tures kitchen- and laundry-wear, re-
frigerator-fittings, garden-tools and hard-
ware on a large scale.
A five-year expansion-programme was
recently commenced, involving erection
of new facilities and extensions to exist-
ing works. At Beverly, S.A., a new
factory - building of 60,000 sq. ft. was
completed last April. Another 84,000
sq.-ft. building adjoining the existing
plant-site was acquired at Finsbury.
A major project for manufacture of
air-conditioning equipment for homes
and large buildings was scheduled to be
in production by the end of 1959.
In N.S.W. the factory, including the
complete electronics section, was moved
to modern premises at Belmore, near
Sydney. Warehousing facilities in all
States were extended. New premises were
acquired in Melbourne, adjoining the
existing warehouse.
Pope continued to extend useful over-
seas affiliations. Technical partnerships
with Borg-Warner International Corp.
(electrical appliances and air-condition-
ing) and Motorola Inc. (TV-sets), both
of U.S.A., are operating smoothly and
considerable use is being made of their
research facilities.
Despite keen competition, turnover
was a record. The increase in sales was,
on the whole, well spread over the
entire range of co.’s products—a very
important aspect.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended June 30, 1959, was £52,596 higher
at £303,787:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
f -Dividends — To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. f— —Ord.——', serves. serves.*
5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1954.. 9,000 15 = 51,000 137,888 448,234
Assets revalued, £249,500 .. .. 697,734
From sundry provisions, £145,213 .. 842,947
Unexplained addition, £3 .. .. 842,950
1955. .213,476 9,000 15 = 51,000 153,476 996,426
Profit sale assets, etc., £12,723 . . 1,009,149
Assets revalued, £340,000 ... ..1,349,149
Added intangibles, £339,919 .. 1,009,230
Reserves capitalised, £340,000 .. 669,230
1956. 9,000 12J= 59,500 133,407 802,637
Unexplained addition, £7 .. .. 802,644
6 & 7 p.c.
1957.. 101 27,483 10 = 78,200 90,418 893,062
Capital profit, £789 .. .. .. 893,851
Added intangibles, £22,383 .. .. 871,468
1958.. 191 26,200 ' 10 =86,600 138,391 1,009,859
Tax overprovided, £16,969 . . 1,026,828
Assets revalued, £125,000 .. . . 1,151,828
Contingency provision transferred,
£95,000 1,246,828
1959.. 303.787 38,163 10 =102,114 163,510 1,410,338
* After deducting difference between book and par
values of interco. holdings.
The profit was struck after providing
£132,449 (up £16,805) for depreciation
and setting aside £153,624 (up £54,603)
for taxation. Though the tax-provision
shown appears to be just a shade light
at current tax rates, the co. has actually
been in the habit of overproviding for
tax than otherwise.
The co. has decided to calculate the
pref. divs. for a period ending as closely
as possible to the date of payment
(October 9, 1959). This resulted in the
pref.-cheque being paid-up to September
30, 1959, absorbing £38,163 (up £11,963).
Ord. div.-rate was maintained at 10 p.c.
on the enlarged capital, the cheque
amounting to £102,114 (up £15,514).
The earning-rate on the average ord.
capital {after satisfying the pref.-div.
requirements) was just over 26 p.c.,
much the same as in the previous
year. This compares with 40.5 p.c.
in 1956 and 21.6 p.c. in 1957,
in both cases on smaller capital.
The results can be regarded as satis-
factory, especially so, taking into account
the intense business rivalry prevailing in
the electrical durable consumer - goods
industry.
Reserves received £163,510 and also
benefited by £16,969 tax overprovision
from the previous period and £125,000
assets-revaluation. In addition, another
£95,000 was pulled-out from inner re-
serves as “a contingency provision made
in previous years and no longer deemed
necessary.” This took-up disclosed re-
serves to £1,410,338, after deducting
£382,349 difference between book and
par values of intercompany holdings.
The small asset-revaluation concerned
land and buildings. The co. is silent on
the purpose of this move. The last
bonus share-issue (a generous one-for-
one) was made in 1956.
At balance - date debentures were
£176,090 higher at £971,390, while
unsecured notes (£349,000) and deferred
loans (£85,000) remained unchanged.
With the new £1,000,000 unsecured
notes, issued after the close of accounts,
total long-term borrowings amount to
£2,405,390 plus another £953,553 in bank
accommodation (up £270,822).
Sundry creditors (including £739,151
deposits) were £735,950 higher at
£1,788,756. The co. revealed £154,281
in provisions (£104,281 long-service leave
and employees’ contingencies and £50,000
contingencies) not apparent in - the pre-
vious year:—
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref. .. .. £400,000 £400,000 £650,000
Old 866,000 866,000 1,260,000
Reserves .. .. 893,062 1,009,859 1,410,338
Debentures, etc. .. 729,860 795,300 971,390
Notes . . .. 349,000 349,000 349,000
Deferred loan . . 85,000 85,000
Overdraft . . .. 274,966 682,731 953,553
Creditors . . .. 481,§84 1,052,806 1,788,756
Tax provision . . 131,961 116,220 155,124
Long-service leave,
etc - 154,281
Final dividends . . 53,900 56,400 78,306
£4,180,633 £5,413,316 £7,855,748
Freeholds, lease-
holds, plant, fete. 2,017,782 2,321,705 3,253,596
Shares, etc. .. 20,000 20,000 29,750
Stock .. . . 1,657,040 2,052,326 3,268,081
Debtors . . .. 484,210 1,015,813 1,245,165
Cash, etc. .. 1,601 3,472 59,156
£4,180,633 £5,413,316 £7,855,743
Fixed assets (land and buildings,
£2,132,776 ; leasehold improvements,
£61,505; plant,. etc., £1,761,850) were
shown at cost or valuation less £702,535
accumulated depreciation and amortisa-
tion provisions. The net figure was
£806,891 higher, excluding £125,000 re-
valuation. Visible capital - expenditure
amounted to £939,340.
Book - debts and trading - stock were
much higher, rising by £1,445,107, but
were said to be consistent with the higher
level of turnover expected during the
current term.
Working-capital was £1,442,382 and
current ratio 1.46 to 1. Net tangible
asset-backing worked out at 10s. 7d. a
ss. ord., on the basis of consolidated
figures at June 30, 1959.
Pope’s economists are busy formulat-
ing expansion plans for some 10 years
ahead. The co. is considering “current
U.S.A. practices devised to sustain in-
centive and virility of top management.”
A bonus - system is operating for
employees on production level. During
the past year the labor - force reached
3000. Recently slight reductions in
employment were observed in the TV-
producing branch, as the co. was gearing
itself to manufacturing equipment for
the Civil Aviation and P.M.G. Depart-
ments.
Current term began well, and the
public’s demand for Pope Motorola TV-
receivers is reported to be encouraging
in Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane. The
co. continues to lay stress on diversifica-
tion of interests, increasing the security
of investment.
Listed in Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth
and Sydney, the ss. ords. fetch 14s. 6d.
Only two years ago the same shares


A. L. NEYITT & CO.
A. D. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: "NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
assurance
Old established, sound and progressive, the
“Metropolitan Life” is a completely Australian financial
institution, providing a variety of attractive policies to
suit every purse and purpose.
You will find the “Metropolitan” representa-
tive to be a friendly and courteous advisor.
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
* (Inc. in QUI. 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney
r\
«
J
m
\
\N
\
\\
\
T7ie repayment of principal and
interest is INDEPENDENTLY
GUARANTEED by an Indem-
nity Co. that issues a policy to
each depositor.
Interest is paid quarterly. THe
original sum deposited is returned
in full at the end of the term
nominated. The depositor Has
the rigHt of witHdrawal of capita!
in an EMERGENCY.
MANUFACTURERS (N.S.W.)
FINANCE CO.
2nd Floor, Northern
House, 13/15 O Con-
nell Slreet, Sydney.
Telephone BYV 2661
(10 lines).
Mail this
coupon for
full details
Ml 19
To: Manufacturers (N.S.W.) Finance
Co.. Box 4790. G.P.0.. Sydney.
NAME- ,
ADDRESS
B 9/12
were quoted at 7s. 6d. a unit.
The co.’s past record and confi-
dence in the future are respon-
sible for the strength of Pope's
scrip, in spite of the modest
immediate return (3.4 p.c. on
the basis of the 10 p.c. div.-
rate). Buyers offered 12s. 6d.
for the contribs.
Permanent Trustee Co. of
N.S.W., Ltd.
'T'he wide, complex and exact-
A ing nature of services ren-
dered by corporate trustees—
at charges below cost during
the two years to mid-1952 —
are not generally realised or
appreciated. Because of the
extensive field covered, trustee
investment does not lend itself
to standardisation. Each trust
portfolio has to be kept under
constant review by a staff of
experts, whose duty it is to
provide maximum income with-
out unduly risking any of the
capital involved, and who must
at all times be ready with advice
on problems affecting the
financial well-being of the
family and dependants.
Net earnings of the co.
depend primarily upon the
relative levels of charges, costs
and volume of business. Except-
ing some minor matters, the
statutory scale of corpus and
other commission charges the
cos. are allowed to make
remained, until recently, un-
changed for over half a
century. Expanding business
more than took care of the
growth in costs pre-war, to the
benefit of net earnings, divi-
dends and reserves. Then costs
began to win the race. Profits
of Permanent Trustee Co. of
N.S.W., Ltd., fell from an
average of £12,123 for the five
years to 1940, to £11,849 and
£11,178 for the two succeeding
quinquenniums and to £5887
for the two years to Sept... 30,
1952, when the trustee section
of the business was being
handled at less than cost.
The outlook changed in
April, 1952, when amendments
were made to the N.S.W.
Trustee Companies Act, pro-
viding for small increases in the
scale of statutory charges. The
new scale, like the old, is static,
and, moreover, applies only to
new business." Provided activity
does not lessen, gross income
must improve, and this in fact
has been the case with
Permanent.
The co.’s profits have also
improved, and will continue to
do so, so long as costs remain
constant, but this premise is
highly theoretical. Wage-
increases and creeping-inflation
are making their presence felt,
and, though not yet serious
(they are partially veiled by
the 1952 increases), will gradu-
ally decrease the leeway granted
by statute. Permanent’s profit,
or, rather, rate of profit, will
tend to decline in so far as it
depends on the trustee function
only, but such tendency will not
be apparent in the short term,
and in its implication ignores
the possibility of compensatory
increases in the scale of charges
or inflation in the value of
estates.
Last term saw a satisfactory
flow of new business in
executorships, trusteeships and
agency matters. Gross earnings
rose, and profit, despite heavier
expense incidence, lifted £1033
to £18,161 (£12,921 above the
1952 figure) and at this level
was equivalent to 16.5 p.c. on
the £IIO,OOO of paid capital
compared with 15,6 p.c., 14.8
p.c., 14.7 p.c. back to 1956 and
4.7 p.c. in 1952:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Prft. t —Dividends—serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’50..12,035 8 p.c. = 8,800 3235 82,662
To staff fund, £2OOO . . 80,662
To renovations, etc., £IOOO 79,662
’51.. 6,534 6 p.c. = 6,600 79,596
From inner reserves, £3159.. 82,755
’52.. 5,240 5 p.c. zz 5,500 82,495
To inner reserves, £9OOO . . 73,495
’53.. 8,659 7 p.c. = 7,700 959 74,454
Cost renovations, £2402 . . 72,052
’54..13.625 9 p.c. = 9,900 3725 75,777
’55..15,859 9 „ „ 9,900 5959 81,736
To provision for contingencies,
£SOO 81,236
'56..16,167 9i p.c. = 10,450 5717 86,952
Assets revalued, £119,878 .. 206,830
’57..16,330 10 p.c. zz 11,000 5330 212,160
To renovations, etc., £IOOO.. 211,160
’58..17,12S 10 p.c. zz 11,000 6128 217,288
To renovations, etc., £IOOO.. 216,288
’59..18,161 10 p.c. z= 11,000 7101 223,449
On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined) the year’s
profit was 5.4 p.c. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c. for the third
successive year. The co. has a
div. record of unbroken annual
distributions since the first pay-
ment in 1895.
The value of new business
during the year exceeded the
value of estates wound-up by
£1,319,981. At balance-date
total funds and investments of
clients and trusts under the co.’s
administration (at the value
as taken into the co.’s books


First mortgage debenture stock
SHORT TERM
RETURN UP TO
0
0
PER ANNUM
12 months 5%
9 . „ . 41%
6. . . 4%
3 . . . 31%
LONG TERM
RETURN UP TO
0
0
PER ANNUM
5-10 years 7%
4 . . . 6i%
3 . . . 6%
2 . . . 51%
Cumulative stock carrying 6i% compounded on
yearly rests with currencies of 5-15 years. Interest
is paid quarterly free of exchange.
Applications must be made on the forms
enclosed in the Prospectus, which can be
obtained from :
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE,
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD. OR
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.,
393 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BROKERS: J. B. WERE & SON
65
and not the market value) stood
at £33,131,316:
Exes. p.c.
Trust Gross of Gross
Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
£ £ £
’52..30,835,358 146,945 141,705 96,4
’53..31,408,643 151,656 142,997 94.2
’54..30,917,934 152,278 138,653 91.1
’55-30,536,800 156,020 140,161 89.8
’56-30,926,000 160,314 144,147 89.9
’57..31,195,625 165,898 149,568 90.2
’58..31,811,335 167,488 150,360 89.8
’59-33,131,316 175,047 156,886 89.6
In 1919, expenses as a percentage of
gross earnings = 58.8 p.c.
The expense-rate fell by 0.2 p.c.
to 89.6 p.c. (96.4 p.c. in 1952
and 58.8 p.c. in 1919).
At September 30 last, the
co.’s own funds, together with
£40,821 coming to sundry
creditors, etc., were represented
by freeholds, etc. £184,326,
investments £133,050, debtors
and cash £30,226 and shares in
the Canberra subsidiary
£20,000:
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £llO,OOO £llO,OOO
Reserves .. 217,288 223,449
Creditors .. 32,911 35,321
Final divs. .. 5,500 5,500
£365,699 £374,270
Freehold .. 175,000 175,000
Fittings . . 7,423 9,326
Shares in subsid. 20,000 20,000
Loans on mort-
gage, etc. . . 102,718 107,412
Statutory deposit
with N.S.W.
Government . . 20,000 20,000
Cash, Government
i bonds, debtors 40,558 . 42,532
£'365,699 £374,270
1958. 1959.
Trust funds
being ad-
ministered £31,811,335 £33,131,316
A recent development has been
the incorporation of Permanent
Trustees Nominees (Canberra),
Ltd., as a subsidiary of the
Canberra offshoot. This co.
will provide Australia-wide
trustee service for such new
types of business as land-trusts,
unit-trusts, etc.
Last November, Permanent
amended its articles so as to
make possible a call of 4s. per
share. Payment is due by Dec.
31, and will see the co.’s £5
shares paid to 15s. each —755.
of the remaining 85s. is a
reserve liability payable only if
needed in the event of liquida-
tion. Moneys • received will
supply capital to implement
the proposed modernisation of
the co.’s head office in
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and
at the same time satisfy the
need of funds, necessary to
maintain efficient and profitable
operation of expanding busi-
ness.
Permanent’s £5 shares, at
present paid to 11s., are fetch-
ing 235. on ’Change. Invest-
ment at this price would return
a yield of 4.8 p.c. The board
is confident that the co. can
continue 10 p.c. divs. when the
capital is enlarged later this
month. Net tangible cover is
335. 4d.
North Broken Hill
IVTorth Broken Hill’s board
having announced a
scheme to bring the capital-
structure more into line with
the company’s worth, the ss.
shares jumped by 21s. to 1455.
during the next day’s dealings
on ’Change.
Besides its mine at the
Barrier, North had, at June
30, listed shares with a book-
value of £1,612,457, a market-
value “in excess of £6 million,”
and they gave North an income
of £222,411 for 1958-59.
In addition, North had
shares in unlisted companies
(mainly B. H. Associated
Smelters, Metal Manufactures,
Ltd., Electrolytic Refining
and Smelting Co., and Com-
monwealth Aircraft Corp.)
with a book - value of
£2,363,237, and yielding divi-
dends of £371,080' for
1958-59.
It will be seen that the listed
cos. gave an average dividend-
yield of 3.7 p.c. on their round-
figure market-value of £6
million.
If the unlisted stocks be
valued on a 5 p.c. basis, it will
be seen that their true value
is nearer £7,400,000 than their
book-value of £2,363,237.
Listed and unlisted shares
together, on this basis, add-up
to £13.7 million.
North has an issued capital
of 2,800,000 ss. shares. At
£7 ss. in the market, the
market-value of North Broken
Hill, Ltd., mine, investments
and all, is roughly £2O million.
Deducting . the £ 13.7-million
valuation of investments, the
mine and other assets are
valued at under £7 million.
Valuing the unlisted invest-
ments on a 5 p.c. basis doesn’t
seem to be overdoing it. The
North mine has well over 10
years’ ore in sight, and Zinc
Corp. and New B.H. would
appear to have a much longer
life.’ The investment in B.H.
Associated Smelters and other
concerns dependent on the
mining industry should have
as permanent a prospect as
' almost any other Australian
key secondary industry.


STOP
SWOLLEN JOINTS
GETTING WORSE
START TODAY
TAKE
[C|o|L|C|H|||S|o|N|E|
PALE BLUE ENGLISH PILLS
GET QUICK RELIEF
from the intense pain of Gout—Rheumatism —Sciatica-
Lumbago Fihrositis and Allied Complaints in the
FINGERS TOES WRISTS ANKLES KNEES
ELBOW'S. This special COLC’HISONE treatment
BANISHES URIC ACID which in most eases is the
cause of the inflammation .and pain. ONE LARGE
BOTTLE of 50 PILLS is usually sufficient, with some
reserve even in the most severe cases. 30/-. There is also
a small bottle of 25 Pills for 17/6. Each size contains a
valuable Purine Food Chart. Do not rub inflamed joints.
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
Made in England —Australian Distributors
CHARLES AGENCIES (AUST.).
230 Commonwealth Street, Sydney.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
\yiNE-DRiNKiNG is becoming
** more and more popular in
the U.K. Among the reasons
for this pleasant and civilised
habit are holiday-travel on the
Continent, the comparative
cheapness of wine (which, in
some instances, actually costs
less than in the country of
origin), the ever-rising standard
of living and the tendency of
families to stay at home in
the evening.
During the past few years a
considerable trade has been
built-up in cheap but good
table-wines, mainly of the
claret, burgundy, chablis and
sauterne kinds. Most of these
come from Spain and Portugal
and retail at the equivalent of
about 9s. (Australian cur-
rency). Hungarian and Yugo-
slavian sylvaners and rieslings
are also abundant, selling at
between 9s. 6d. and 11s. 6d.,
and are excellent value, since
the cheapest German hock
costs about 14s.
Cyprus and South Africa
produce quite cheap hock and
sherry, but, because of politi-
cal happenings, there is an
undertone of consumer-bias
against them. Other long-
distance wines are those from
Madeira, Israel and Chile.
From the point of view of
the uninformed layman, it is
disappointing that Australian
wines make such a poor show-
ing in the catalogues and in
the shop-windows. Here, it
seems, is the poor relation.
Tl\is arises, no doubt, from
appellations such as “port-
type,” giving the impression
that the wines are substitutes
or imitations. That this is
false is soon established by
reference to any good authority
as, for instance, Carling’s
“Wine Aristocracy”: “Great
strides have been made in the
production of fine wines in the
Australian vineyards. Some of
these wines are today not far
behind the world’s best.”
The problem of establishing
a separate identity upon a
public that knows only bur-
gundy, claret, sauterne, hock
and so on must be a teasing
one. Yet the same public is
very favorably disposed to
Australia. Little headway will
be made by spasmodic wine-
tastings at exhibitions. Some-
thing in the nature of an inten-
sive public-relations campaign,
spread over several years,
among merchants, retailers and
the public would seem to be
called for. The ultimate reward
is of immense potential.
Towards a Showdown
The T.U.C. has a poor
reputation as a governing
body. Unwillingness, double-
thinking and incapacity have
been the rufe rather than the
exception.
There are now positive signs
of a collective firmness against
those aspects of union mis-
conduct which have so
alienated public opinion.
Speakers, including the militant
Frank Cousins, are lashing out
against unofficial strikers.
At long last the T.U.C. has
grasped the nettle, though with
a kid-gloved hand, of the
Communist-controlled Electri-
cal Trades Union. The mal-
practices of the last 25 years
that have been ventilated by
the press read like a text-book
of Communist methods.
Similar irregularities in a
building-society or a friendly-
society would immediately be-
come a public scandal, pro-
voking urgent investigation and
remedial action. But the trade-
union world appears to enjoy
a unique immunity from the
supervision accepted as nor-
mal and necessary in other
spheres. The Governmental
attitude is hush-hush —-a Tory
backbench motion calling for
a royal commission to examine
“the law relating to the legiti-
mate activities of trades-
unions” is said to have been
quietly but subtly shelved.
The T.U.C. has been trying
for months to “have discus-
sions” with the E.T.U. bosses
and has now made public what
amounts to a severe denuncia-
tion of their evasion. This
evasion, affirms the T.U.C.,
indicates that the E.T.U.
leadership “is aware that there
is so much substance in the
charges (principally of rigging
ballots) against them that they
are unwilling to have them
thoroughly investigated.”
It is understood that sus-
pension was considered, bat,
because the rank - and - file
would suffer, this was not
pressed to a vote. The T.U.C.
obviously is hoping that the
E.T.U. members will now be
roused from their apathy and
kick out the guilty officers.
If they don’t, then some
drastic measure from outside
the union must follow, per-
haps an independent inquiry
or perhaps a reconsideration
of expulsion.
Seasidelights
Willis Hall is unique among
our younger dramatists in
having made his reputation by
orthodox methods. He is
essentially the professional
craftsman, observing life at
firsthand and translating it into
dramatic terms.
Only 30 and still under con-
tract to the 8.8. C., his
apparently casual but shatter-
ingly meaningful, anti-war
play, “The Long and the
Short and the Tall,” has de-
servedly brought him world
recognition.
The theatre needs more of
his kind, for the excitements
of the past three years are too
insubstantial to endure. John
Osborne has failed to sustain
his brilliant but uneven and,
at times, shabby talent.
Shelagh Delaney’s precocious,
blustering crudity, though
underlaid with tender compas-
sion for the sexually abnormal,
is a once-for-all experience
for any but the insensitive.
Brendan Behan, her fellow-
protege of the Theatre Work-
shop, is profligate in ideas but
slap-dash to the point of silli-
ness. And, some way behind,
are the half-dozen or so
“come sniff the drains with
me” embryo playwrights from
the Royal Court.
Thanks, then, to Willis Hall
for his maturity and profes-
sional integrity. With experi-
ence as a regular soldier and
of casual employment at a
well-known watering-place he
could, no doubt, outrageously
shock theatre-audiences as
readily as the next man, or
woman, but how much more
telling and, for that matter,
realistic is the shaping of the
language and situations into
literary form.
In a double bill at the
Lyric, Hammersmith, two
plays, originally written for
television, draw upon his
behind-the-scenes knowledge of
the seaside holiday-resort.
“Last Day in Dreamland” is
a study in the vernacular of
a shoddy amusement arcade at
the end of the season. When
it keeps to the emptiness and
superficiality of the characters
and their lives it is effective,
but when groping for “human”
values it is less convincing.
The second play, “A Glimpse
of the Sea,” is an ingenious
variant of the triangle theme,
in which the mistress is more
solidly worthy than the wife.
All three come face-to-face in
a dingy boarding-house, with
the husband, the weakest of
the three, left pummelled and
dripping, like sand after the
receding tide. This piece does
not quite come off: it is too
artificial and too constricted by
the severe and imagination-
destroying technique of writing
for television. This so reduces
the postulate to easily-under-
stood terms that actors as dis-
tinguished as Jill Bennett and
Paul Danema,p have no head-
room for improvisation.


Memoirs of a
(Abridged from a book to be published later)
HUMAN TOUCH AT
BROKEN HILL
By B. S. BAXTER COOK
C Founder of the Australian Journalists’ Association and No. 1 A.J.A. Gold Medallist)
It was in 1920 that I parted
company with Billy Hughes
(as previously related) and
packed my bags for Broken
Hill, on the invitation of my
friend Gerald Mussen to work
with him on his worker-better-
ment plan.
Gerald Mussen’s plan was a
somewhat remarkable one. He
had had considerable success
ak the Port Pirie Smelters in
bringing about more friendly
relations between employers
and employees, though the
Port Pirie environment had
been harsh and uninviting.
Few facilities had existed for
pleasurable relaxation for the
smelter-men and their families.
In this atmosphere, discontent
had smouldered, and serious
Bulletin cartoon comment on
Prime Minister Fisher’s London trip.
industrial disputes had often
developed from trivial causes.
Mussen had gradually gained
the respect of the more reason-
ably-minded men, but during
the First World War some
extremists thought it would be
opportune to threaten a strike.
World supplies of metals for
the Allies were diminishing to
such an extent that they were
looking to Port Pirie for 95
per cent, of their requirements.
It was feared that if a pro-
longed hold-up took place, the
safety of the Empire would be
actually imperilled.
Backed wholeheartedly by
the management, Mussen inten-
sified his work to win the confi-
dence of a wider circle of the
men. Eventually, by appeal-
ing individually to their man-
hood and patriotism, he secured
an undertaking that there would
be no strike. The result was
that the Smelters did not lose
one day’s work
during the war
period. Mussen re-
ceived the written
thanks of the Allied
Powers.
This goodwill was
consolidated in a big
community effort to
construct an exten-
sive playground, the
Smelters providing
the area of land and
all the materials ; the
men and their
families giving their
labor free. Men,
women and children
worked like bees
about a hive, and
there was great re-
joicing when the
work was finished jn
a single day!
The whole outfit
was then handed
over, with no strings,
to the workers, free
of debt.
V/fussEN’s work at Port Pirie
had so deeply impressed
W. L. Baillieu and Colin Fraser
(later .Sir • Colin), who were
closely associated with Broken
Hill interests, that they asked
him to study the labor problem
there. At that time Broken
Hill, a dead-end town, had the
reputation of being one of the
worst industrial spots in Aus-
tralia.
Mussen was soon satisfied
that there were faults on both
sides. He also became aware
of the fact that the relations
between some of the mining
companies and the unions had
deteriorated to a condition of
intense bitterness.
There were at that time
eleven mining companies work-
ing on the world-famous
metalliferous line of lode.
Mussen suggested that the com-
panies should jointly establish
a fund of £50,000 to allow an
industrial-betterment scheme,
somewhat undefined, but with
the co-operation of the
employees, to proceed along
natural lines of development
From The Bulletin series “The
ABC of Scientific Farming"; this
pre-C.S.I.R.O. bit of “science”
“Capturing passing rain-clouds in a
dry spell.”
considered to be most suit-
atle for local conditions. If
this were agreed to, he felt
sure that better relations could
be established and more happi-
ness brought to men and their
families.
He was suitably equipped to
do this work. He had a well-
balanced mind in which was
the deep-set conviction that all
industrial undertakings, to be
a complete success, must be in
the nature of joint enterprises
by capital and labor,
Some of those closely associ-
ated with Broken Hill interests
were who n y j n favor of
jyfussen’s scheme, among them,
w . E , Wainwright (manager of
Broken Hill South Mine),
j ames Hebbard (manager,
Broken Hill Central), Herbert
Gepp, later Sir Herbert (Amal-
gamated Zinc-De Bavay), Colin
Fraser, and, of course, that
other outstanding personality
in the financ i a i WO rld, W. L.
B aillieu. Some others were
only lukewarm,


Of the eminent industria-
lists mentioned, only Mussen
survives at time of writing. He
is in a rest-home in Caulfield
(Vic.). I shall have something
to say later of his remarkable
career. Wainwright was an out-
standing authority on metalli-
ferous ores. He was a Gold
Medallist of the Australian
Institute of Mining.
'T'here was to be an unfor-
tunate delay in getting the
Mussen scheme into operation.
The Broken Hill Proprietary
Company was hesitant about
joining, as its ore-reserves were
nearing exhaustion, and it had
opened a steelworks at New-
castle on June 2, 1915. Actually,
as far back as 1911 some con-
sideration had been given to
such a project. Now, in 1920,
they were face to face with
the problem whether they
should return the capital to
shareholders, or, when the
mining-field was exhausted,
look to another field of invest-
ment.
It was a tremendous, and
now historic, decision for the
directors tp have made to enter
this new industrial field. Some
steel magnates abroad seemed
surprised at the idea that a
country with a population
(1911) of a little over four-and-
a-half million would be able
successfully to enter into com-
petition with the great iron-
and-steel works in Great
Britain, Europe and America.
But the directors considered
that as a wealthy organisation
had been established in connec-
tion with the Broken Hill enter-
prise, and had an efficient staff
of technicians, it would be
nothing less than an industrial
disaster to scrap the lot. When
the proposition was put to
shareholders they bravely
agreed—and by an overwhelm-
ing majority, too —to support
the directors’ plan, instead of
taking back their share of the
capital on liquidation.
The board of directors which
made the momentous decisioii
to turn from silver-lead produc-
tion to iron-and-steel manu-
facture consisted of John
Darling (chairman), D. W.
Mcßryde, M.L.C., Bowes
Kelly, D. W. Harvey Patterson,
William Jamieson, H. C. E.
Muecke and E. Neale Wigg.
The general-manager was G. D.
Delprat (he was one of the
principal advocates of the trans-
formation). The secretary was
F. M. Dickinson.
As little was known about
steel-manufacture in Australia,
the company sent a few of its
best staff-men abroad to gather
all the knowledge possible on
the subject. They were pleasur-
ably surprised to find that the
technicians of the steel-makers
of other countries were very
co-operative. Plants were
thrown open for inspection,
and information sought was
generously supplied.
The B.H.P. today has an
issued capital of £63 million,
58,000 shareholders and 35,000
employees, and it controls
group-assets valued at £llO
million The foundation of this
MORE RAIN
(Norman Lindsay Bulletin cartoon.)
enormously successful Austra-
lian enterprise is basically due
to the fact that Australia was
able to provide within its own
borders all the essential raw
materials, and, secondly, to the
successful layout of the plants
to be served by the company’s
own railways and shipping-
lines, . thus eliminating the
profits of intermediaries.
Continuous close control by
able directors, backed by a
remarkably efficient staff in all
departments, has now placed
the B.H.P. in the forefront of
steel-production of the world,
enabling it not only to supply
Australian requirements at less
than import-cost but to estab-
lish a profitable export trade in
a very competitive market.
T include that brief outline
* of the strength of the
Broken Hill Pty., Ltd., to
explain the eagerness of the
other Broken Hill companies in
1920 to get it to join them <n
their betterment-scheme. More-
over, they considered that the
B.H.P. was more responsible


CHRISTMAS CARDS
A unique range of hand-colored Christmas Cards
featuring photographs by Monte Luke, F.R.P.S., and
John Wray, A.R.P.S., of Australian landscapes and
scenes is available to readers at the privilege price of
10s. a dozen, with envelopes. Orders should be
addressed to the Card Department, Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney, with remittance enclosed. A sample card will
be sent by return mail on receipt of three sd. stamps.
Please print your name and address.
for the labor-conditions exist-
ing at the Barrier than they
were, as it was the oldest
company. But the B.H.P. gradu-
ally got so wrapped-up in its
iron-and-steel project that in
the end it decided against any
further developmental expen-
diture in connection with its
Barrier mine, whose days were
numbered.
The delayed decision of the
B.H.P. was taken with iil grace
by the other companies, as the
critical time was approaching
for the renewal of the working-
agreements between the mining
companies and the unions, and
they had been hopeful that
their scheme would have been
in operation long before to.
show the men that they were
out for a better deal for them.
However, when it became
certain that the B.H.P. would
not join in the scheme the other
companies decided to go. ahead
with it themselves. It was the
class of work that appealed to
me, and for this reason I had
accepted the position of
Resident Industrial Officer at
Broken Hill to give effect to the
proposals.
As subsequent events proved,
the B.H.P. delay was fatal. The
news was soon spread at
Broken Hill by Labor extrem-
ists that some dark scheme was
afoot. They proclaimed that
it bode no good to the men,
and it was not long before they
bedaubed it “Mussenism.”
Without waiting for any
adequate explanation of the
proposals, they denounced it as
the latest form of deception by
the employers to rob the men
of their militancy.
Meantime the usual prelim-
inary conferences had been held
between the Mine Managers’
Association and the unions’
representatives to arrange terms
for the renewal of the industrial
agreements. These failed, and
a general strike followed. This
was the unpleasant picture
that confronted us when
Mussen and I arrived at Broken
Hill.
So bitter was the resentment
that my wife, who had come
along to see that I was com-
fortably ensconced, was pillo-
ried in the local Labor daily
newspaper as a shocking
example of the capitalistic class
“flaunting her diamonds and
fur coat in the face of the
starving wives and children of
the mine-workers.”
That piffle was just too silly
for words.
Tt was not long before dis-
tressful conditions eventua-
ted, and the companies, as a
gesture of good faith, .promptly
established a fund for the relief
of the worst cases, to be admin-
istered by the men themselves,
with only one representative of
the companies being on the
committee (myself).
I winked the other eye at
some of the distress-stories told
by the investigation members
of the committee, in which there
seemed to be some grounds for
suspicion of favoritism. A few
personal complaints were made
to me that the more moderate
members of. the Miners’ Union
were neglected, but when I
brought such cases before the
committee no objection was
raised to relief being given.
Much good was done, but, all
the same, a great amount of
suffering by old and young was
silently borne.
In these circumstances it was
hopeless to try to put Mussen’s
ideas of “humanising industry”
in their true perspective. One
of the proposals was to contri-
bute substantially towards the
cost of establishing a social-
centre in each municipal ward,
complete with meeting-hall,
reading-rooms, card-tables, pro-
vision for sporting-activities,
etc., the centre to be handed-
over to trustees appointed by
the men and to be managed
by a committee selected
by the men and women. But
to try to organise anything of
this nature, when families were
on short rations, was to court
failure.
While waiting for the strike
to be settled, I moved quietly
among the more reasonably-
minded men and found a con-
siderable number who dis-
agreed with the strike-leaders.
They told me that the strike
was being run by a small clique
of “Commos.” In reply to my
question why they did not turn-
up in a body at the Trades Hall
and express their views, one
said, “We’ve tried that, but we
only got howled down and
branded as scabs. Rocks have
been thrown at our houses
and our children have been
cruelly insulted.”
In order to establish a
nucleus of goodwill, even in
the confused industrial condi-
tions existing, Mussen suggested
that something should be done
for the local branch of the
Returned Soldiers’ League. He
justifiably reasoned that if these
men had been good enough to
volunteer to fight in the service
of their country, they must be
worth-while citizens. The
companies agreed.
As a result of several inter-
views with the leading R.S.L.
men, a scheme was evolved
under which the Palace Hotel
should be purchased. In addi-
tion to becoming a home and
meeting-place for returned
men, the layout would include
a bowling-green, cricket-pitch
and other sporting facilities.
Altogether the mining com-
panies approved of the expen-
diture of about £20,000 on this
project. When the renovations
had been made, the whole outfit
was handed to the R.S.L. as a
free gift.
'T'he principal achievement in
this was that it stood as
concrete evidence of the
genuineness of the companies’
new approach to the jndustial
problem.
While this helped in the
establishment of better rela-
tions, it was clear that, for the
moment, little more could be
done in the way of betterment
of conditions until the strike
was settled. I therefore returned
to Melbourne and at-the end
of my preliminary two-years’
engagement, I did not seek re-
engagement, as the strike was
still on.
After I left Broken Hill I
learned that the Labor
extremists were becoming
fewer, but even more bitter. At
the same time, however, it was
apparent that they were losing
their hold on the men. Mean-
time, the world metal-market
had slumped, and it was
whispered around Broken Hill
that the companies, for
economic reasons, were by no
means anxious to reopen the
mines.
These cracks in the Labor
front became openly evident
among the men. Gradually the
more moderate ones gained
control, and the chief “Red”
was warned that if he did not
depart" in double-quick time he
would be kicked out, and that
if ever he returned he would be
tarred and feathered. He left
hurriedly.
The end of the strike, which
had lasted several years, and
had impoverished many decent
mine-workers, was marked by
the introduction of what has
become known as the lead-
bonus system. Mainly this
SHAREMILKERS
Bog-slow and stolid, as if the mud
Had never let them go, they are moved
Through Friday town and Sunday church
As hills creep, sag with their own weight down.
Their women, sweet-smelling, sullen
Udders of the universe, suckling
Children, puppies, lambs, all
Manner of young animal:
Calves, blear-eyed, blowing great
Bubbles from the pail, stagger stiff-legged
Through the mire of milk and mud
That would swallow them r a small taste of Fate.
An old bull bugles at the boundary-gate
But the cows—-secure in their seasons —
Have no need of him now ;
Only the woman gazes dully out,
While her husband ploughs and jotw
The slow hills with his seed.
N.Z.
BARRY MITCALFE.


F*ußi in ihc
Future
b
In Australia where the land is. vast, it may
seem remarkable that the people of another country
should have been working for thirty-six years to
add to their precious soil an area of four hundred
and seventy square miles.
But that is the story of land reclamation in
Holland. And I believe it is well worth the
telling here, to remind us how favoured we
ourselves are in territory—and how much we owe
in effort for the plenteous gift of soil that is
around us.
A Netherlands Information Service bulletin
on my desk announces that 300.000 acres (about
470 square miles) of the Zuyder Zee has been
reclaimed, leaving 244,000 acres (about 380 square
miles) to be won in a scheme that was begun in
1923 and was interrupted and damaged by war.
Patience is here in every line of this brave,
determined project; courage, and faith, and
purpose; and that quality which counts the
investment of personal service to one’s country
above any material cost.
It is characteristic of the Dutch nation, many
of whose excellent people we are proud to welcome
as New Australians.
Behind the fact of this homeland reclamation
is a mass of enormous and expensive effort in the
building of enclosing dams, dykes, locks, sluices,
bridges, causeways and canals. It has entailed
the construction of homes and villages, the
provision of power and water, the making of
hundreds of miles of roads.
And the reward is to be seen where land,
purged of its heavy salt, has become part of the
national territory and is cultivated in farms and
orchards, market gardens and flower plantations.
This has been done—is still being done—by
eleven million people in a country whose total
area, including gulfs and bays, if spread along our
coast, would reach from Sydney to Brisbane in a
narrow strip no deeper than twenty-four miles.
There, in one living example, we have both
the measure of what land means to mankind, and
the scale of our own opportunity.
y
provides for the miners to
receive half the profit above a
certain price of lead <sn the
world market.
Mussen thought the lead-
bonus system was unsound,
but he now had no say in the
matter. In the course of the
years since then, not only has
the bonus-system sometimes
doubled the amount of the
miners’ weekly pay but its scope
has been extended to embrace
all the employees in the mines
as well as the miners. Business-
circles have also come under
its influence. In order to keep
their staffs from seeking
employment in some capacity
on the mines, the trades-
people had to increase salaries.
These industrial advantages
have give Broken Hill the repu-
tation of having now become
the most peaceful industrial
city in the Commonwealth,
instead of the worst.
A FORGOTTEN SCIENTIST
Few people in Australia,
outside official circles,
know how it became
possible for Australia
to have a wireless-system of
its own without having to
make heavy payments in royal-
ties to private companies.
The credit is due, firstly to
Andrew Fisher, as Prime
Minister (second Fisher
Administration, 1?L0 - i?i J),
and secondly, and more import-
antly, to a chance meeting in
London with John Graeme
Balsillie.
Balsillie was born in Bris-
bane in 1885. He attended the
Brisbane Boys’ Grammar
School and later the Brisbane
University, where he became
particularly interested in elec-
tricity and radio. He made
further progress in. this class of
research-work in the Brisbane
Technical College. Eventually
he designed a radio-system of
his own, and when still in his
twenties he installed it for the
Tsar Government in Russia.
Back in London, he formed
the Amalgamated Radio Tele-
graph Co., becoming its chief-
engineer. The Marconi Com-
pany then sued him for
infringement of its patents,
and the verdict went against
him—on a technicality, he told
me. He was legally advised
that he would have a good
chance on appeal, but the case
had already exhausted his
financial resources.
That Balsillie should have
been short of funds was not
surprising. He did not know
the first thing about saving
against the proverbial rainy
day. A scholarly man and a
brilliant conversationalist of
courtly manners, he was often
a welcome guest at the stately
homes of old British families.
On one such occasion, after
dinner, a game of bridge was
suggested.
“We usually pay a pound,”
said the host, a peer of the
realm.
Balsillie readily agreed.
With a bit of luck, he thought,
a pound a hundred would be
within his comparatively
limited means.
At the conclusion of the
game Balsillie was pleased to
find that he was 240 points up.
His host produced his cheque-
book and wrote-out one for
£240. Balsillie must have smiled
sceptically, because his host
immediately remarked, “You
did agree to a pound a point?”
“Yes, yes, of course,” Bal-
sillie hastily said, to cover his
momentary confusion, as he
realised what a pickle he might
have been in had the luck
gone the other way . . .
'T'he history of radio in Aus-
A tralia goes back to the first
decade. An Act was passed
by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment in 1905 giving the
Postmaster - General the
exclusive privilege of establish-
ing and using wireless-stations
in Australia, but provision
was made under which licences
could be granted to private
wireless companies.
Both the Marconi and Tele-
funken companies were thus
able to operate wireless-stations.
It was quite an event in 1906
when a station situated at
Queenscliff, in Victoria, was
placed in wireless-communica-
tion, over Bass Strait, with
Devonport, Tasmania.
Fisher was anxious to call
tenders for a network of
Government wireless - stations
to be established throughout
Australia, but he was afraid
the companies already operat-
ing might pool their resources
to eliminate competition. The
Federal Government had
offered to buy the Australian
rights of their sysems, but
could not come to terms.
This was the situation when
Fisher was in London in 1911
on official business. It seemed
more than a coincidence that
he and Balsillie should meet.
Both were Queensland-born;
Balsillie was a wireless-
engineer and homesick ; Fisher
wanted a wireless-system that
would not involve heavy
royalties. The stage was set.
With his Russian experience,
(Continued on page 58)


Constitutional Reform
One of the tasks the Federal Par-
liament will have to tackle next
year will be to decide which of
the many proposals put to it by
the all-party committee on Constitu- •
tional reform, the final report of which
w'as tabled in Canberra just before the
Christmas recess, it will ask the people
to approve by referendum.
If its work can be judged by the
number of its recommendations, the
committee has had a busy time. Its
proposals cover Senate-reform, resolu-
tion of deadlocks, re-establishment of the
Inter-State Commission ; wider powers
over shipping and civil aviation ; taxa-
tion of inter-State road-transport; power
to make laws governing scientific and
industrial research and the production
of nuclear energy ; clearer powers over
broadcasting and television ; power to
make laws about terms and conditions
of industrial employment; power over
public companies ; extended powers in
regard to restrictive trade - practices;
powers to make laws for orderly market-
ing ; powers over capital-issues and
hire-purchase ; and various other powers
or extensions of present ones.
In every case the recommendation is
for greater power for the Common-
wealth. This is not surprising, since the
committee consisted entirely of Federal
Parliamentarians and half its num-
ber belong to a party whose platform
advocates the abolition of State Par-
liaments.
Still, the fact that political opponents
have been able to reach almost complete
agreement on a wide range of proposals
suggests, that their recommendations may
have more hope of being accepted by the
people than a study of past referendums
would encourage one to suppose.
Past Referendums
nPHE first referendum, held on Decem-
ber 12, 1906, was carried by an
overwhelming majority in every State.
It concerned a minor alteration in the
procedure for Senate elections. The
second, involving financial powers, was
rejected (April 13, 1910), but on the
same day five States, N.S.W. alone object-
ing, approved an alteration affecting
State debts. Thus, of the first three
referendums, two were carried, so
revisionists would have been quite
entitled at that stage to feel optimistic
about the chances of getting electors to
approve further changes.
Subsequent history proved such
optimism to be misplaced. The next
14 proposals for amending the Consti-
tution were all rejected, and it was not
until 1928 that the electors again agreed
to a change. As with the previous one,
this concerned State debts.
It was 18 years before another referen-
dum was successful. This alteration,
submitted on September 28, 1946, gave
the Commonwealth power to legislate
on a wide range of social services. It
was approved by the electors of every
State.
Two other proposals (“orderly market-
ing of primary products” and “industrial
employment”) were made at the same
time, but failed to win the necessary
approval. Three States were in favor
and three against and there was a small
overall majority in favor.
• The three-all result has been a com-
mon occurrence in Federal referendums
(it has happened 13 times), but these
were the only two cases in which the
“three-all, no-change” rule worked
against the overall vote; in all other
such cases the overall majority was for
“No.”
For and Against
/"Aver, the whole period since Federa-
tion the electors of N.S.W. and Tas-
mania, the largest and smallest States,
have been the most consistent opponents
of change and Westralia the most ready
to accept alterations. N. S. Wales has
voted in favor of only seven amendments
and against 19. Tasmania has voted for
eight and against 18. Figures for other
States are Victoria 10 and 16 ; South
Australia 11 and 15; Queensland 17
and nine ; Westralia 21 and five.
Of 26 referendums submitted to the
people only four have been carried, and
experience shows that an amendment to
the Constitution has little chance of
jumping the hurdle unless it has the
support of the three main political
parties ; even a division of opinion be-
tween the two Government parties is
probably enough to make it stumble.
But despite these difficulties it has been
patent for a long time that a.Constitu-
tion designed for the conditions of 1900
cannot remain unchanged for ever.
Thirty years ago the Peden Royal Com-
mission which had been asked to
examine the powers of the Common-
wealth under the Constitution with par-
ticular reference to “aviation, company-
law, health, industrial powers, the Inter-
State Commission, judicial powers,
navigation law, new States, taxation and
trade and commerce, submitted a long
and comprehensive report, but no
changes resulted, though the two pro-
posals submitted (and rejected) in 1937
stemmed from it.
Present Proposals
Tt is against this background that the
present committee’s report must be
approached and with a realisation that
party agreement must be reached before
referendums can be considered. The
proposals that will most easily find
general acceptance are those dealing
with the Senate. The enlargement of
the House of Representatives in 1949
necessitated, under the Constitution, a
corresponding increase in the numbers
of the Senate, leading to the ridiculous
situation of Tasmania having 10
Senators, although five members are
considered enough to represent the
State in the Lower House. The com-
mittee proposes to end the automatic
tie between the numbers of the two
Houses ; to fix the number of Senators
at between six and 10 from each State ;
and to fix the size of each Federal
electorate at 80,000 people, which is
round about the present figure.
Another proposal for which wide sup-
port may be expected is the recommen-
dation that the Commonwealth should
have power to make laws with respect
to corporations. This would enable the
Commonwealth Parliament to pass a
uniform Companies Act. The committee
believes that “advantages for the nation
as a whole and to business and investors
would flow from the achievement of
uniformity in company - law... .The
divergencies in company-law from State
to State increase the complexities of
company-management and tend to impair
the efficiency of commerce.”
In recommending that the Common-
wealth should have power to take a
poll among primary producers on plans
for “orderly marketing of primary
products,” the committee says that “the
next few years will show that in some
industries organised marketing will be
more important than ever in maintaining
these industries on a profitable footing
for the benefit of producers and the
nation.” It claims (with justification) that
in the past marketing - schemes in
individual States have been hampered
by Section 92.
Preferable
A lthough there are two views on the
extent to which organised marketing
is necessary, direct control by the Com-
monwealth is probably preferable to the
present cumbersome system. The sugges-
tion is that any plan put to the producers
would need the consent of 60 per cent,
of them. This figure might need upward
revision. Orderly marketing was turned-
down flat in 1936, but in 1948 it came
very close to acceptance.
Additional financial powers proposed
to be given to the Commonwealth would
enable it to pass laws for the control
of hire-purchase (deposits, period of
repayment and rates of interest), capital-
issues and rates of interest on mortgages.
It is quite logical that these powers
should rest with the Federal Parliament.
It is anomalous that the national Govern-
ment should have power over banking,
yet not have it over other credit
organisations that have grown-up outside
the banking structure. This applies
especially to hire-purchase companies and
acceptance - corporations, which were
virtually unknown when the Constitution
was drawn-up, but which now bulk large
in the financial framework of the country.
In regard to capital-issues it should,
however, be stressed that the powers
given should in normal times be dormant
rather than active ; that they are meant
to be used as an emergency-brake, not
as hobbles, handcuffs and straitjacket
hampering healthy growth and progress.


start the day right!
jpf
K&! •O*',
iVS
7 >
•S V
«of.-
ott* c
€
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The International
Ever since Sir Blink won the
Caulfield Cup and V.R.C.
Derby in the spring of 1958 the
game little fellow has been a
pin-up horse with Victorian
punters and have they
suffered! He has started 16
times since he won the Derby,
has been well-backed ,each
time, and has landed one race.
On Saturday Sir Blink was
the punter’s choice for the
colorful International Stakes,
but he had 9.9, and he just
can’t carry such weights. He
ran a dismal tenth. Fred
Palmer, of France, had the
mount on Sir Blink, and the
way the ballot worked-out he
was the only one of the five
overseas jockeys whose mount
was at all fancied. The nearest
any of them got at the finish
was Japanese lad Yusa
Nohira’s eighth on Choctaw.
No fault of the visitors —their
mounts weren’t good enough.
The M.R.C. staged the race
with a nice show of pageantry.
After a fanfare of trumpets,
the riders paraded in racebook
order, with the course-
announcer introducing the
jockeys, and the crowd giving
each rider a good reception.
The race, like almost all the
big handicaps in Melbourne
this season, went to an un-
fancied runner—the five-year-
old Comic Court gelding
Gurney, who showed better
stamina than in recent starts
run the 13 furlongs right
out and snatch the verdict on
the line from But Beautiful
(her first placing since March).
Alan Yeomans, who won the
Caulfield Cup on Sir Blink last
year, showed great skill to find
a clear path for Gurney in
the last half-furlong ; he well
deserved the trophy that went
to the winning rider.
V.R.C. committeeman E. A.
Underwood is having a won-
derful season with the two-
year-old stock of his imported
Landau. On Saturday his colt
Mojave, by that sire from
Dusky Rose, scored a first win,
leading practically all the way
in the five-furlongs Tokyo
Handicap, and battling on well
to hold off the strong finish of
the Meadow Mist filly Grasse,
bred and raced by Sir Chester
Manifold, chairman of the
V-R.C. Third at the Valley the
previous week, Grasse should
soon win. Mojave will spell
now, with the longer autumn
races as his target.
Jumping-events add a lot to
Melbourne facing during
winter months, but they are
out of place at this time of
the year. It was pitiful to see
“When he's skittish and full o' fun it means he's
coming back to winning form.”
the nine runners in the Liver-
pool Hurdle scrambling over
the, obstacles. Only five com-
pleted the course, most of them
more by luck than jumping-
skill. Commercial, who has
some claims to be a hurdler,
won by a conservative 50yds.
• • • •
Mentone trainer Brian Court-
ney has a useful galloper in
the three-year-old Smokey
Eyes colt Small Time, who
won the first heat of the seven-
furlongs Longchamps Handi-
cap. The colt got his name
as a yearling, when he was so
undersized that his breeder,
Jim McNamara, of Highfield
Stud, Broadmeadows (an outer
Melbourne suburb), withdrew
the youngster from the
yearling-sales. He made a
present of Small Time to
Courtney, but the trainer
insisted that he and the breeder
race the colt in partnership.
He has now won three races,
two of them at Flemington.
Saturday’s win was a first-up
effort, with topweight of 8.11.
The outstanding perform-
ance of the day’s racing at
Flemington was Pedro Lass’s
win in the Singapore Stakes
(seven furlongs ; three-year-old
fillies and four-year-old mares).
Pedro Lass missed the jump,
and, after being urged along,
still had only three or four
runners behind her at the
straight-entrance. She went
like the wind in the run home
to get her head in front on
the line —A. Yeomans giving
further proof of his skill.
Pedro Lass is a daughter of
Moonee Valley Cup winner
Don Pedro, out of Philjoan,
and on this run she should be
worth following during the
summer months. English rider
Geolf Lewis had a mount in
the Singapore Stakes, riding
Meadow Bird for Victoria’s
sporting Premier, H. E. Bolte.
Meadow Bird finished with the
whippers-in.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Canterbury racing next
Saturday could throw further
light on Villiers chances, but
it looks as if the winner could
be Boorala, who convincingly
won the £1650 Festival Handi-
cap at Rosehill last weekend.
Boorala carried 7.13, and
covered the seven furlongs in
1.24.9, less than a second out-
side the course record estab-
lished by Queenslander Coni-
ston in 1951. On Saturday
another from Queensland,
Repatriate, was backed to
favoritism, but Boorala looked
a certainty once heads were
turned for home, and he scored
an easy win.
• • •
Apprentice R. Hutt, attached
to Fred Hood’s stable, had two
falls last week—one from an
untried horse at the finish of
a gallop at Rosebery; the
other just after finishing third
on Halowee at Rosehill. After
the first spill the youngster
was briefly in hospital under
observation, but he got out of
the second fall even better.
Halowee, who swerved sud-
denly while being pulled-up,
ran her best race to date. A
four-year-old mare, she is
unusually bred, being by
Elysium (imp.) from a Gene-
tout mare. The race was won
by Glamour Belle, who was
third to Bold Lass at Warwick
Farm about three weeks previ-
ously.
• #1 •
Backed at odds-on, two-
year-old filly Fun And Fancy
never got near the lead in
the First Graduation Stakes,
the race going to Randwick
winner Minikin, who led most
of the way and had a com-
fortable victory over Swallow
Tail and Santana. George
Moore had his first Sydney
ride since returning from
France when beaten on
Swallow Tail —in fact, George
didn’t land a winner, and his
followers lost a tidy sum.
Wenona Girl, unbeaten
winner in her only two starts,
is good to look at and is as
good as she looks. Her run-
away Gimcrack Stakes win did
not debar her from starting in


the Second Two-Year-Old
Graduation Stakes—an easy
ownership prize of £765 for
S.T.C. chairman Bill Long-
worth. A member of M. Mc-
Carten’s Randwick team, the
filly competed as a novice, and
had a mere exercise-gallop to
beat Cherry Dust and Delnita.
On his fine Brisbane per-
formances, Earlwood (a Derby,
Guineas and Doomben Cup
winner, among other successes)
looked the part for the Rose-
hill Christmas Cup, was duly
sent out odds-on favorite, and
beat only one home, and a
moderate at that —Pardorus —
outsider of the field of six.
Maybe Earlwood wasn’t fully
wound-up for the 10 furlongs ;
anyway, he petered-out quickly
when, after leading into the
straight, he was headed by
Bold Pilot, who in turn was
passed near the finishing-line
by Essayist, whose pull in
the weights (7.4 against Bold
Pilot’s 9st.) was further helped
by N. McGrowdie’s vigorous
riding.
Loc’nie had his first Sydney
win for the best part of a year
when he cantered in with the
Rosehill Welter under top-
weight 9st. He had a win in
Brisbane in August and had
run fairly at a couple of starts
prior to Saturday’s win.
Favorite for the Welter, Nadar
Shah, ridden by G. Moore, ran
only moderately, but Gay
Satin’s effort looked good.
Riders here from overseas
for last Saturday’s Invitation
Stakes at Flemington will have
a second chance in the Sydney
Turf Club’s £2150 Inter-
national (9| furlongs) at
Canterbury Park next week-
end. The field is to be limited
to 12, with provision for
emergencies. These moves to
give racegoers something a bit
out of the often unimaginative
routine are all to the good.
“P.0.M.C.”: It is broadly true
(as jockey George Moore remarked
on his return from overseas) that
racing generally is better and
stake-money higher in those coun-
tries where betting is restricted to
the tote. It is also true that —•
in the cases Moore was citing, at
any rate —virtually the entire per-
centage taken from the pool goes
straight back into racing! In Aus-
tralia, of course, the sport from
which the profits are derived gets
the crumbs, what time the totalisator
companies and the Government
cut-up the slice between them.
Consequently, all-tote betting failed
in South Australia, as it did when
given a trial in Sydney last season.
Under conditions existing here,
bookmakers are a necessary evil in
that they are steady revenue-
producers for the clubs as well as
for themselves.
The Trots
Having her first run under
the lights at Harold Park last
Friday night four-year-old
Gay Vivienne overcame diffi-
culties to win the Trotters’
Handicap (13 furlongs 98yds.).
Slowly away, she was making
ground fast when Towrang
Bar broke in front of her,
causing further loss of several
lengths. Trotting faultlessly,
Gay Vivienne went to the post
strongly, holding off several
challengers, to beat Gunrock
and Single Raider (his sixth
third-placing from his last
seven starts). In an outstand-
ing last-to-first run from the
24yds. mark in the Concord
Handicap (9 furlongs 170yds.)
Southern Van broke by jth
sec. the record made by (Corre-
late in a Harold Park Flying in
"You misinterpreted the significance of the
cognomen ‘One Punch’!”
first-class company. It was
Southern Van’s sixth win at
the Park, and assures him a
run in the Inter-Dominion in
January-February.
* * *
,f Serve-volley" Tennis
In the Victorian Lawn
Tennis Championships at
Kooyong last week the
women’s events continued
completely to overshadow the
men’s in point of public interest.
This is not simply because there
happen to be topnotch overseas
visitors contesting the girls’ events
and only local talent in the men’s.
The said “local talent,” after all,
includes not only the world's No. 1
amateur, but also the No. 2, and
probably No. 3 and No. 4, and
maybe three out of the next half-
dozen as well.
But in the Victorian men’s final,
as in the N.S.W. final between the
same two players, Fraser and
Emerson, there was plain evidence
of something drastically wrong
with top-class men’s tennis these
days from the spectator viewpoint.
In the middle of what was —on
paper—a most closely contested
final between the world’s two best
singles players, spectators got up
and streamed out in thousands
when it was announced that the
mixed doubles final would be
played on an outside court! (In
Sydney, they had already left
earlier in hundreds to watch Jack
Crawford contest finals of the
“Veterans” singles and doubles
events.)
The cause is easy enough to pint-
point. It is the fantastically
powerful “serve-volley” brand of
tennis, developed mainly in the
post-war years and now dominating
the game. By reducing the game
virtually to just that —a serve and
a volley—it seems to prevent build-
up of any of the tension of per-
sonal conflict which develops with
longer rallies.
The simple fact is that a facet
of the game has been reduced to
over-perfection, and from a spec-
tator viewpoint it is the perfection
of boredom.
The possible solution isn’t near
so easy to indicate, but it certainly
won’t be achieved by any of the
mooted changing of the rules.
Present writer’s guess is that the
answer is the emergence of players
with the complete, all-round game
to keep the ball in play and compel
rallies, at which stage the bash-
and-volley merchants’ percentage of
errors will beat them every time.
Jack Crawford at his prime would
probably beat these players; Brom-
wich certainly would; and Sedgman
would donkeylick them. And
spectators would pay to see it . . .
Anyway, the Victorian men’s
singles championship resulted in a
Fraser-Emerson final, as had the
Queensland and New South Wales
titles, Emerson winning in Bris-
bane and Fraser in Sydney (that
in itself should have given the final
the tension and atmosphere that
grips a gallery, but it didn’t).
On paper it was a thriller. Fraser
romped through the first set 6-0.
Then the second set developed into
one of the longest ever played in
a major tournament final, with
Fraser winning 25-23 after Emerson
had held, and dropped, nine set
points. The third set was close
again, Emerson eventually taking
it 7-5. Then Fraser won the fourth,
and the match, 6-4. On paper, a
corker, but that just wasn’t how
it was to watch . . .
In the Victorian women’s singles
a halt was finally called to Jan
Lehane’s string of giantkiller wins,
in the course of which she had
beaten all three visitors and the
top-ranking local girls as well. In
an early round Miss Lehane again
beat the American girl Mimi
Arnold, but in a semi-final Eng-
land’s Junoesque 18 - year - old
Christine Truman (Jan is the same
age) showed the real form that
has earned her World No. 2 rating
when she beat Miss Lehane 5-7,
7-5, 6-0.
The final between Miss Truman
and' Miss Bueno was the best bit of
women's tennis sighted here since
Nancy Bolton and Thelma Long were
dominating the scene. Despite the
lapse of serving three doubles at a
vital stage, which cost her the
second set, Miss Bueno, the Wimble-
don winner, played classically
stylish tennis to win the final 6-0,
5- 6-4.
Fraser and Emerson won a drab
men’s doubles final against Howe
and Hewitt 6-3, 3-6, 15-13, 7-5;
the Misses Truman and Bueno out-
classed Lorraine Coghlan and a
very promising junior, Margaret
Smith, 6-1, 6-1, in the women’s
doubles; and Miss Bueno made a
clean sweep of it in winning, with
Bob Howe, the mixed doubles, 7-5,
6- against Bob Mark and Mrs.
Reitano.
“Tennisite”: A top tennis
amateur can command extra-
ordinarily good expenses to
appear at somebody’s tourna-
ment on what used to be called
the “sunshine trail” but is
known now as the “golden
trail.” Lew Hoad and wife
Jenny, when touring privately
three years ago, raked-in
expenses amounting to £126 a
week.
* * *
The Cricketers
In their Shield game in
Adelaide, Victoria whipped
South Australia by 10 wickets
with a day to spare, bar a
few minutes allowed on Mon-
day night for Victoria to hit-
off the two runs needed for
an outright win. (Victoria, 351
and 0-2 ; S.A., 152 and 200.)
Two century-makers, Victorian
batsman Shaw’s dreary 107
and S.A. all-rounder Hills’s
round 100 in S.A.’s second-
innings 200. Best bowling
figures, Vic, left-arm spinner
Quick’s 7-64 in S.A.’s second
innings—Quick’s best Shield
figures to date.
“K.R.”: Paddington club
(Sydney) has, in its team this
year, two men who have played
Sheffield Shield cricket for
N.S.W. (skipper Arthur Morris
and all-rounder Ted Cotton),
one who has played for
Queensland (all-rounder Ron
Archer), one who has played
for Victoria (opening-bat Jeff
Hallebone) and one who has
played for both N.S.W. and


*vs
a
%
9
m\
r
BELLS
the Celebration Scotch
Bell’s gives great pleasure to those who know
Scotch Whisky well. Try this grand Scotch.
Savour its smooth elusive flavour. Enjoy the
magic subtlety that only the rare, the very
best Whiskies can achieve, and you will
know why so many people count it high
among their pleasures.
100% Scotch Whiskies Distilled and Blended in Scotland
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland. Established 1825.
Queensland (fast-bowler Jack
Clark). Morris and Archer,
of course, have also represented
Australia.
• • •
“Kabara”: When Footscray
began its recent game against
University, ’Scray skipper Arthur
Dean had taken 295 wickets in
Melbourne pennant-cricket and
vice-captain Arthur Day had taken
297. In the Students’ first innings
Dean took 5-42 and Day 3-26, for
both to bring-up their 300 wickets.
Dean began with Footscray in
1951, Day in 1950. Footscray was
admitted to the V.C.A. in 1948-49,
and at time of writing Day and
Dean have been its only cricketing
Bulldogs to be picked for Victoria.
Left-hand batsman Ken Eastwood
(formerly of Gordon club,
Sydney), who led Victoria against
N.S.W. in last week’s Colts game
at the S.C.G. and made 129 very
nicely, may well become the third.
“Joseph”: Ken Mackay’s
6 for 42 on matting (B.
25 /11 / ’59) is extraordinary
succesk indeed, as he’s in
mainly for his reliable batting.
Facing the bright red ball on
green coir-matting is much
easier on dull days for bats-
men, and for many cricketers
who have been wonders on
turf and failed abjectly on
other matting. The ball turns
less on turf if the wicket’s
hars, and the black Bulli soil
makes the red ball dark very
quickly. Green is a cool
color, and green matting is
softer on the eyes and mind
than usually yellowish turf.
“Farinmail”: Fifteen Fijian
cricketers (including a player-
manager) will be on N.S.W.
tour soon: first match due on
January 9. Two of the 14
games to be played will be in
Sydney, the rest at country
centres. Normally bowling,
batting and fielding barefooted,
they have the reputation of
being hard-hitting batsmen
and remarkably fine fieldsmen.
* * *
Other Sports
After an indifferent over-
seas sortie which had many of
his admirers shaking heads
sorrowfully, Peter Thomson
has blazed right back to the
form which earned him his
wonderful record in a succes-
sion of British Opens. In the
first round of the Coles
Tournament played at Hunting-
dale (Vic.) last week he took
control of the event with a 69,
giving him an immediate three-
strokes lead over the field. It
was six under the course
standard, broke a course record
set 10 years earlier by Ossie
Pickworth, was Thomson’s
sixth successive sub-70 round
and his ninth from 10 rounds.
As it progressed Thomson
simply went further ahead,
winning finally by six strokes
from Kel Nagle. Thomson’s
cards were 69, 71, 70, 72.
All the equipment, including
scoreboards, used for the
Canada Cup in Melbourne is
being shipped to Ireland for
the next International Golfi
Championship, due at the
Portmarnock Golf Club,
Dublin, June 23-26 next year.
Ampol managing - director
W. G. Walkley, who’s also
Australian chairman of the
International Golf Association,
said it had been decided to
send all this equipment to
assist the Irish promoters of
the Canada Cup to keep
expenses to a minimum. As
International Golf Association
chairman Frank Pace, jnr.,
acknowledged: “Ampol’s fine
gesture in giving this material
to Eire is in accord with the
underlying conception of the
Canada Cup international
goodwill through golf. I know
the Irish will thoroughly
appreciate this generous gift.”
* * Hs
“Athlete”: The rise in the
standard of high-jumping in
Australia since the war has
been one of the classic features
of track and field, and perhaps
when “Chilla” Porter retires
(he’s now aiming at clearing
7ft.) Australia will find in
young Percy Hobson, of
Bourke (N.S.W.), a country
youngster destined for overseas
trips. Recently in from his
native leaping-ground to
compete at Bathurst, young
Hobson—at 17 an almost per-
fect straddle-style jumper—
effortlessly cleared 6ft. sin.,
representing an improvement of
in two months! Sydney
athletic-club “scouts” have
been trying to lure him to the
city with good inducements, but
according to Doug Macßain,
physical-education teacher at
Bathurst, the youngster won’t
budge from Bourke. He’s con-
tent with the correspondence-
coaching Macßain is giving
without charge.
* * *
“J.A.8.”: This comes to an
oldish memory from away back
in 1908, when a filming of the
Burns-Johnson scrap was
shown in Warwick (Q.), and a
local enthusiast, who had gone
along on successive nights to
see it, was asked what he
thought of it. “Well, I might
be wrong,” he said, “but I
reckon Burns put up a much
better fight the second night
than he did the first night.”
* * *
“Bob-Ray”: One of the
strongest English motor-cycle
speedway-teams ever will be
seen on Australian tracks this
season: Ken McKinlay
(captain and manager), Peter
Craven (world champion,
1956), Mike Broadba'nks,
Gerald Jackson, Ben Andrews
and Gordon McGregor. No
dates have yet been fixed for
the “Test”-clashes, but the first
of them is almost sure to be
early in January.
* * *
“A.L.D.”: Australia will
soon be having a new sport—
indoor bowling. First indoor
alley is due to be opened in
Melbourne at the end of the
summer, another in Sydney
shortly afterwards. An auto-
matic pin-spotting machine
takes away pins knocked down,
sets them up again for the
next throw, and indicates the
score and what pins are
remaining. Arthur C. Jares,
managing-director of A.M.F.
Indoor Bowling Pty., Ltd.,
believes the game will quickly
be a £ 10-million industry in
Australia. He expects it to
“catch-on here like a bush-
fire.” Americans spend £134
million a year on it.
* * *
“Splasher”: Sixty - two
world-records are listed each
year by the International
Swimming Federation. The
latest list, made available by
Australian Swimming Union
secretary W. Phillips, shows
Australians hold 29 of these
records. In the men’s freestyle
the only non-Australian in the
list is the Yamanaka
(200 metres and 400 metres).
Of the remaining eight, John
Devitt holds two and the rest
are held by John Konrads.
Australia’s women Dawn
Fraser (four), lisa Konrads
(four) and Lorraine Crapp
(one) shut foreign competitors
out of freestyle records.


THE QUEER CUSS
By A. E. STURGES
There were two strangers
in our carriage the day
of the fight. One,
Harry Baines, wasn’t a
real stranger, just a stranger
to the carriage. Up to then
he’d always had his own trans-
port, sometimes a pushbike,
more often a motor-bike or
car.
A smart bloke, Harry,
always buying old bikes and
cars, doing them up and selling
them at a profit. But the last
bloke he’d bought from had
been smart, too. Harry had
managed to coax the car home,
but on stripping it down had
seen at a glance that it was
a hopeless proposition. So
now he was reduced to travel-
ling by train until he had
saved enough to make a fresh
start.
We gave him a rally when
he got in, but he’d been around
long enough not to bite at a
bit of barracking. Not that he
was harmless ; he was quite
ready, too ready in fact, to
take offence when he saw fit,
and in the four or five years
he’d been on the job he’d had
more than one fight. A big
chap he was, but quick in his
movements. Not bad-looking
either, with dark, wavy hair
and fresh complexion, and a
reputation of being a lad with
the women.
Harry sat down in. the
corner seat diagonally oppo-
site mine. Mick looked at me
with raised eyebrows, and we
grinned. Now, although Harry
had accepted the chiacking, he
seemed to resent the grins, for
he scowled at us, and his eyes
held a challenge. He prob-
ably thought we were grinning
because he’d been made a
sucker. He didn’t know that
Baldy Roberts travelled in this
carriage, and that we were
anticipating Baldy’s arrival
and the fun that would follow.
We wiped the grins from our
faces and settled back to wait.
"VText to come was Johnny
White, and it was Johnny
who brought the real stranger,
a New Australian, a little
snowy - headed cove from
Estonia or Latvia or some such
place—l forget where Johnny
said. Johnny introduced him,
but we couldn't get our tongue
round his name, so Johnny
laughed and told us to call
him Jan.
A real queer cuss this Jan
turned out to be. He’d got
a job as offsider to Johnny
in the plate-shop. Johnny
had his own special little set-
up there, making cathodes for
the cells, aluminium, with head-
bars of copper riveted on.
You could see Johnny was
tickled to death with Jan, and,
knowing Johnny as we did, it
wasn’t difficult to guess that
Jan would soon be doing
Johnny’s work as well as his
own, while Johnny acted in an
advisory capacity and kept an
eye open for the boss.
We got talking on the usual
topics—work, football, horses,
women —and this Jan was
screwing his head from side to
side like a spectator at a tennis
tournament, drinking-in all we
were saying, and now and
again asking Johnny to explain
something he didn’t under-
stand. And then, damn it, if
he didn’t take a little black
notebook out of his pocket
and start writing in it.
] saw a movement frorp old
Mick, and I knew at once
what was coming. Mick’s a
quiet sort, but he likes a bit
of a joke.' It’s not often he
turns it on, but when he does
he makes a real job of it, and
if you didn’t know him you’d
swear he was dinkum ; he’d
leave some of these film-stars
for dead.
Well, Mick leaned forward
and pointed at Jan and bel-
lowed at him, “What the hell’s
he doing ; is he a bloody dick
or what?”
Jan jerked up, startled, his
eyes bugging out of his head,
and tried to explain, the words
tumbling out of his mouth like
water boiling over rocks, and
his eyes flashing and arms
waving, but all to no purpose:
we couldn’t understand a word.
So Johnny hushed him and
soothed him down and inter-
preted: Jan was aiming to
increase his vocab., and so
noted new words and phrases,
and alongside them their
meaning.
Then Johnny grinned and
said “Show them your other
one, Jan.”
And damn me if Jan didn’t
fish out another, a red one
this time, in which he copied
down slang words and swearing.
Old Mick gammoned to be
mollified, apologised to Jan
for suspecting him of being a
private-eye and, as if in
atonement, offered to help him
fill the red book. And to start
the ball rolling he asked Jan
how many ways he knew of
saying .
Jan, relieved to see Mick’s
anger gone, laughed till the
tears shone in his eyes.
“No need for say him,” he
gasped, and had another fit, at
his own joke this time.
“Put ’em down, anyway,”
Mick said, and told him three
or four for a start. And that
set Jan off again, laughing and
shaking so that he could
scarcely write. Then we all
chimed in, and some of the
words were funny, and we got
to wondering where they came
from and how many there
really were.
XI7E were in the middle of
this when the door swung
open, and there was Baldy.
A character, Baldy, a genuine
regular. Twenty-seven years
he’d been on the jo6, had never
missed a day, never been late,
and always travelled in the
same carriage, second one back
from the engine.
He looked the way he was:
there was nothing loose or
flowing about him, everything
was rigidly in place, his collar
studded to his shirt, his tie
pinned into position, his hat
square on his head. His
thoughts probably travelled
the same groove each day, fol-
lowing _a routine dictated by
the demands of his job and
his home, never varied, never
questioned. Everyone reckoned
that the day Baldy Roberts
didn’t clock-on at 7.40 a.m.,
that would be the day of his
funeral.
Baldy climbed up, opened
the door, then stopped dead.
There was an ominous
silence.
Then Baldy said, in a threat-
ening voice : “Come on. Out.”
Jan looked up at him,
startled ; his laughter died
away, the light left his eyes.
Then he saw that Baldy was
looking not at him, but at
Harry.
Harry didn’t speak or move.
He watched Baldy, and you
could see he was tensed, ready
for action. Jan looked un-
certainly from one to the other,
not sure whether they were
joking, weighing their chances
if they were not.
Baldy shut the door, took
two steps along the carriage,
put his bag in the rack, all
without taking his eyes off
Harry.
“Come on,” he repeated.
Harry neither moved nor
spoke. Baldy shot-out a hand
and grasped his coat. “Get
up,” he growled, and tugged
Quick as a snake Harry
struck him hard across the
inside of the elbow with the
edge of his hand. Baldy
winced, jerked Harry to his
feet, then knocked him onto
(Continued on page 53)


STEEL PIPE Needs No
Underground Protection
9gm sgaassssE?
!V”'" * ' 5 :
m % > I fazmmm.
.. .j 4 '•.' % y; / Sfe:
-°V -y; " ' ' '
■Pi
w
::• •
fc . '.
WMWOCWWK^^POCOOOC
Whenever water
has to be conveyed—
there's no satis-
factory substitute
for STEEL PIPE
Before ordering, think of these advan-
tages that steel pipe has over other
types of piping,
★ Because it is not fragile or susceptible
to damage by stock or fire, it can be
laid above ground, thereby saving
cost of trenching.
★ Greater strength gives far longer life.
★ Steel pipe does not deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure.
★ Is not damaged by termites or
rodents.
★ Has much greater pressure capacity.
★ Steel pipe is easy to install, handle or
store without fear of breakage.
★ In-built structural strength and rigidity
permit overhead vertical and
building installations.
★ No other type of pipe is so
economical ... so enduring . . . $9
versatile in its application^.
Why take risks with other fragile, easily damaged, shorter-lived types of piping!
FOR VALUE... GREATER STRENGTH... LONGER LIFE.,. INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong,
Launceston, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlte.
.SS A 2-^59.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
AUSTRALIANS IN ENGLAND
'T'he attitudes of Australian
expatriates in England—
subject of Ray Lawler’s con-
troversial play “The Piccadilly
Bushman” (B. 2/12/’s9)—was
lately raised again in the Man-
chester “Guardian” in an article
by former Sydney journalist
Edwin S. Morrisby.
Entitled “Australians in Brit-
ain—A Chip on Whose
Shoulder?” the article stated
firstly that “it is necessary to
separate Australians’ reasons
for coming here from their
reasons for staying.”
Morrisby argues that so
many Australians go to Eng-
land because they are an adven-
turous people with a largely
semi-nomadic tradition stem-
ming from the itinerant life of
the early bush workers;
because European travel has
acquired a snob- and prestige-
value in Australia, especially
among the professions;
because it is easy for Aus-
tralians to save the money for
travel ; because “Australia
is a country where the intellec-
tual path is frequently con-
sidered the path of non-adjust-
ment” ; and, perhaps most
importantly, because Austra-
lians are naturally curious
about the picture of England
that they are brought upon:
“To them Britain is a sort
of Hy-Brasil, a Blessed Isles,
where Royalty, tradition,
intellectual stimulus, gracious
living and quaintness go hand-
in-hand. She is also the symbol
of authority and the target for
Australian anti-authoritarian-
ism.
“Much of this is derived
from literature and, of course,
bears little resemblance to
reality. Some of it possibly
comes from vague racial mem-
ories, for Australians are, in
the main, the descendants of
the dispossessed and rejected of
Britain.
Standards Lower
“In Britain Australians find
all standards tend to be lower.
The standards of living, the
standards of achievement in
various fields of scholarship,
the standards of efficiency in
industry and business, the
standards of performance in
sport and music, the standards
of taste in art and architecture
are not as high as they are in
Australia.
“This is a broad generalisa-
tion, and there are many excep-
tions to it—the theatre is an
obvious one, television another,
and variety a third —but by and
large it is true. The most
lasting impression Australians
receive of Britain is one of
disappointment.
“This is not the fault of the
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
ROBINSON KHRUSHCHEV’S STARTLING DISCOVERY.
British. It is simply that the
idealised picture that Austra-
lians have of them is unreal
(but so is the British picture
of Australia). Further, Aus-
tralians come from a country
with an anarchic and radical
tradition of some standing. In
Britain they see for the first
time a stratified society using
class as its dynamic.”
There are, however, 60,000
Australians permanently resi-
dent in England. Why do they
stay? Chiefly, argues Morrisby,
because the “Australian tradi-
tion is that having decided on
a thing you go through with if
to the bitter end.
“This may not be consciously
manifest, but it is part of the
culture-pattern. There is no
going back from the bush, and
in a sense Britain is the bush.
“Those who remain in
Britain are generally different
from those who do not
(lethargy and, as Australians
put it, ‘being beaten by the
Poms’ keep a few here). Many,
however, have succeeded in one
environment and are anxious
to succeed in another. Since
the war they have successfully
entered variety, serious music,
the civil service, medicine, Fleet
Street, television and scholar-
ship, with the result that an
Australian establishment exists,
and has gradually extended its
influence.
“Ambivalent Attitude”
“But, although they accept
the social mores of this country
and live by them, Australians
have an ambivalent attitude
towards their hosts. They do
not particularly want to be
taken as different, but on the
other hand they do not
adjust very happily to British
society. They are apt to seek
each other's company and
complain about the life they
lead here.
“This may be no more than
the behavior of the outback
farmer visited by the fire, flood
and drought of ‘the bastard
country.’ Yet it may have some
bearing on the other side of
the Australian-British coin, the
difficulty which British migrants
have in adjusting to Australia.
Both spring from the happen-
ings at Botany Bay 171 years
ago.”
Morrisby’s article brought
to the “Guardian” two letters
from Australians now living
in England. The first, from
Adrienne Keith Cohen, ques-
tions the statement that the
most lasting impression Aus-
tralians receive of Britain is
one of disappointment:
“This was not my experience.
And those Australians I have
encountered here (perhaps
two- to three-hundred of the
60,000 for whom Mr. Morrisby
apparently claims to speak)
nave with two exceptions
agreed that their expectations
were fulfilled. (We had our
preconceived ideas, all right,
but they clearly fell outside the
prescribed terms of reference.)
“With this false start, I sup-
pose it is inevitable that I have
failed to appreciate the lower
standards of pretty well every-
thing to which 1 have since
been subjected.
What Criteria?
“It would be interesting to
know the criteria by which
Mr. Morrisby judges the stan-
dards he lists. The standard
of living is measured by a
generally accepted formula,
and it is doubtless true that
that enjoyed in Australia is
higher than in Britain in terms
of housing, rates of pay, and
material goods. But even as a
generalisation it seems a large
claim that, for instance, stan-
dards of taste in art and archi-
tecture are higher in Australia
than in Britain. And if
‘standards of achievement in
various fields of scholarship’
are lower here, how do they
acquire that prestige in Aus-
tralia that Mr. Morrisby earlier
claims for them?”
In the second letter, William
Lowe states that after reading
Morrisby’s article “I indulged
in an orgy of heart-searching
as to why I had been in Britain
for nearly 10 years.
“For a moment I thought
the answer was within my
grasp anti-authoritarianism!
Deep down in my vague racial
memory was my dispossessed
and rejected maternal great-
great-grandfather, sent to the
colonies for poaching, or was
it robbery with violence? I
had returned to renew the old
vendetta. But my racial


DO YOU
<
W/,
w
IH
:\)
/i N
-A BUSY MAN?
Your brother, perhaps, or your son? A man
who, like yourself, is often too busy to keep abreast
of daily events. This man, you will agree, would
appreciate “The Bulletin” —a journal he could
read during the leisure hours of the weekend —a
medium that will keep him fully informed of all
the national affairs that matter.
SEND HIM A SUBSCRIPTION TO
AS A CHRISTMAS-GIFT FROM
THE FAMILY
Our Subscriptions Department will sign, on your
behalf, a greetings-card announcing your gift-subscrip-
tion, and will dispatch it to arrive before Christmas.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
ELSEWHERE
IN THIS ISSUE
<eb»
IP
£
J
C
memory had been too vague,
for the old gentleman had been
merely a Gloucestershire
blanket-maker, and, to judge
by the family fortunes, a none-
too-successful one at that.
“Then the unpalatable truth
became apparent —I was here
because I liked being here, not
because I was lethargic, nor
yet because of my veneration
of stratified society (shades of
Vaucluse, Rose Bay and Wool-
loomooloo), nor yet because I
wished to raise the standards
of English art, music, archi-
tecture and scholarship. I
simply liked England.
“England is the freest coun-
try in the world, the most
beautiful country in the world.
English, as spoken in the north,
is the most expressive and
beautiful language in the
world, and the English people
the most pig-headed, tenacious
and likeable people I have met.
I am indeed fortunate, for I
enjoy the best of both worlds.
I am an Australian living in
England.”
In Afghanistan
Having published an article
alleging infiltration of
Russian arms into Afghanistan,
London “Daily Telegraph”
received the following infor-
mation in a letter from R. J.
Howling, of London:
“When three of us were
driving home from the Far
East in May last year we took
the northern route through
Afghanistan, driving from
Kabul to Herat via Mazar-i-
Sharif and skirting the Russian
border.
“Between the ancient city of
Bamian and Pol-i-Chomri we
met, on the very rough road
crossing the Hindu Kush, a
convoy of about 40 Russian
lorries loaded with guns
(possibly 25mm. or a type of
large mortar) and in some
instances towing what were not
unlike the standard ammuni-
tion-trailers. Every lorry had
an armed man either in. the
cab or squatting in the back.
“The work that the Russians
were doing on the roads was
quite notable, especially as
regards a stretch of 20 miles
or so between the border and
Kabul and in the capital itself,
which boasts what must be
the only tarmac in the country.
As the present roads are so
terrible and there are no rail-
ways and little air-transport,
any improvement in the former
is bound to have a marked
effect on the economy, and
there must be a considerable
prestige-value for the road-
builders.
“Two other points are worth
noting: firstly, that most, if
not all, of the petrol (which,
is of low octane-rating) comes
from Russia; and secondly,
the keen police-force.
“While we were not actually
followed they knew exactly
where we were going, and
when we approached the Rus-
sian border the precautions
were tightened. We were
politely ‘expected’ to sleep in
certain hotels, and in Andkhui
a policeman (very smelly!)
slept outside our room, fully
dressed and with his cap
pushed firmly on his head.
“Farther on we had trouble
with our clutch, and were con-
templating camping by the
roadside when a lorry stopped,
and the occupants, by means
of sign-language, indicated that
if we stayed there bandits
would come down from the
hills and slit our throats! We
eventually arrived at the next
town at 11 p.m., to be greeted
by the local police-chief wav-
ing a lantern and directing us
into ‘the’ hotel.
“We found out later that
in the previous year an Ameri-
can and his girl-friend had
disappeared without trace, and
now the authorities were taking
no risks. When a traveller
(European) left a town, the
police telephoned to the next
one to warn them of his
departure.”
Warnings on Spain
Journalist lan Gilmour lately
** published a long article
in London “Spectator” attack-
ing the social injustices of
the Franco regime in Spain
and warning that the U.S., in
giving financial aid to Franco,
has committed the grave error
of imagining that Spanish
Fascism is the only alternative
to Spanish Communism. The
two go together, Gilmour con-
tended, like a package-deal.
This article brought to the
“Spectator” the following con-
gratulatory letter from ex-
patriate Spanish liberal philo-
sopher Salvador de Madariaga:
“Few among the persons
that count in the official world
seem to be aware of the gravity
of the [Spanish] situation from
the European point of view.
To give but one example: the
Spanish Army should be even-
tually an important element
in the defence of the West.
It is thoroughly corrupted, and
it is being alienated from the


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
( Incorporated in Canberra, Australia')
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
people by the mere fact that
its officers accept to act in
military courts and to inflict
savage sentences on students,
workers and other civilians
for ‘crimes’ which are in every
civilised country considered as
the normal and healthy activi-
ties of every citizen.
“Mr. Gilmour’s report is so
accurate and so wise that any
differences in color or stress
that one might be tempted to
put forward could be but
secondary. I hope, neverthe-
less, that he will allow me to
comment on one point.
“If I do not misinterpret
him, he would be inclined to
prefer the attitude of those
Socialists (mostly in Spain)
who are in favor of collabora-
tion with the Communists
to bring down the regime, to
that of the Socialists (mostly
the exiled ones) who are against
such a collaboration. May I
suggest three reasons for think-
ing that the second course is the
more advisable of the two?:
“No. 1 is that to collaborate
with the Communists in order
to turn Franco out is no better
than to collaborate with
Franco in order to turn the
Communists out. Both amount
to sweeping with a dirty broom.
To the retort that Franco
happens to be in and the Com-
munists out my answer is the
same as that under No. 2.
“No. 2 is that if we col-
laborate with the Communists
to turn-out Franco, and suc-
ceed, they will have an un-
answerable claim to a share
in the successor Administra-
tion. As the example of the?
satellites and even those of
France and Italy show, this
would be too high a risk for
Spain to take.
“No. 3 is that the Com-
munists do not want Franco
to fall yet, since, as Mr. Gil-
mour has pointed out, he is
indispensable to them and they
to him. They need at least
another five years of the regime
so that between the upper, or
Franco, and the nether, or
Communist, stone of the mill
the liberal opinion and organ-
isation in Spain are thoroughly
ground out of existence.
Therefore, the Communists
would only collaborate with
us in order to sabotage our
efforts.”
In a footnote to de Mada-
riaga’s letter lan Gilmour
replies:
“I did not mean to suggest
that the Socialist leaders in
exile were wrong to refuse to
co-operate with the Com-
munists, but that they some-
times showed insufficient
understanding of the fact that
such purity is much easier to
preserve in Toulouse or Paris
than in Barcelona or Madrid.
“If the Socialist leaders
inside Spain are to retain the
allegiance of their followers
they cannot automatically
refuse to do something simply
because the Communists are
—Frankfurter “Rundschau
“TOUR” DE FRANCE.
doing it, too. On the dangers
of Socialist-Communist co-
operation I entirely agree with
all that Don Salvador says.”
Panama
From London “Time and
Tide”:
“The difficulties which the
United States faces in Panama
and in Cuba must be a matter
of concern to her allies, but
many British readers will find
themselves in wry agreement
with Mr. Osbert Lancaster,
whose tiny cartoons on the
front page of the ‘Daily
Express’ are a constant joy.
“Recently Mr. Lancaster
showed Maudie Littlehampton,
her face registering puzzled
bewilderment, reading an
account of the sharp action
taken by the American authori-
ties against rioters in Panama,
while her husband explains,
‘But you must realise that this
is a quite, quite different situa-
tion.’ Not all British husbands,
perhaps, with memories of
Suez and of other episodes still
fresh in their minds would
have taken as tolerant an
attitude as Lord Littlehampton.
“America is suffering, as she
inevitably must, one of the
penalties of being Top Nation.
This is that her motives, how-
ever admirable, are always
liable to be misunderstood and
even wilfully traduced, and that
more people in the world will
dislike her than love her.
“U nhapp i 1 y, Americans
share with Germans a haunting
longing to be loved, and they
have not yet resigned them-
selves to the fact that while
they remain the most powerful
nation in the world that longing
must go largely unfulfilled.
“The Romans had a grim
saying: ‘Oder in t ditm
metuanf ... ‘Let them hate so
long as they fear.’ In justice
to British ‘colonialists’ —that
now much-despised breed —
they never thought of adopting
that motto, but they realised
that they could not hope to do
their duty, as they saw it, to
the accompaniment of sus-
tained bursts of admiring
applause. They learned to accept
the frequent brickbats and to be
grateful for the occasional
bouquets.
“The action of the Ameri-
cans in Panama was probably
perfectly justified and proper,
but, in the light of the indigna-
tion with which American
spokesmen have sometimes
greeted similar action by Great
Britain, we must be forgiven if
we smile, perhaps a little
ruefully.”
Dragnet Digest
“New York Times”: “Due
to American economic aid,
Western Europe is now enjoy-
ing unprecedented prosperity
and is beginning to requite the
United States by eliminating
discriminations against dollar
imports. But the chief burden
of Western defence, even in
Europe, still falls on the United
States and Britain, which not
only provide the bulk of the
Western defence-expenditures
but also the key troops, with a
service-term of 24 months,
while most of the Continental
allies have cut the service-
terms to between 18 and 12
months.
“The people of Western
Europe can do better than
that.”
* * *
C. L. Sulzberger, in the
“New York Times”: “Aus-
tralia is hoisting itself by
mighty heaves upon its boot-
straps. It is suddenly becoming
a modern, mass-producing
State. It is absorbing immigra-
tion, building heavy industry,
stimulating science, education,
new ideas. Australia has
accepted a 20th-century role
that may bring with it distor-
tions and ugliness, but never-
theless rushes forward full of
energy, zest and sweat.
“New Zealand seems to
dodge this fate. It isolates
itself from the global race of
self - improvement, having
already achieved so comfort-
able a median level under
methods only newly become
old-faslroned. The result is
an impression of a lovable
and marvellously agreeable if
static society. But no society,
not even that of Utopia, can
remain static without paying
for it.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “The
longer the summit is put off,
the less reliance Mr. Khrush-
chev is likely to put on any
understanding reached with any
American except the next
President. This danger equally
affects the value of Mr. Eisen-
hower’s personal visit to Mos-
cow next spring. When the
time of this visit was arranged,
it was assumed that the summit
would be held this year. Mr.
Eisenhower would thus have
been assured of two separate


/faoH/tt fU iou <j/to fUe> U/cfclaf
Icrt/ i+urte ttv&*i
a,S
the Pen
ivith the
Marvellous
QOLD
Nib!
85 L 42/6<l.
Other Conway Models
29;6d. to 75!-
o
the finest Pens -
the Greatest Value
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD. LONDON
opportunities to press his diplo-
matic initiative home. Now
both run the danger of coming
on top of each other at a time
when the end of his authority
is in sight.
“These considerations argue
powerfully for Mr. Eisen-
hower’s arrival in Moscow to
be brought as far forward as
possible. The real diplomatic
priority is to ensure that this
initiative does not run to waste
while British, French and
Germans jostle for a place, or a
say, in the inner directorate of
world affairs. While the summit
for four hangs fire, the advan-
tages of the summit for two
become even more self-evident.
It does not seem to be inde-
cently hasty or appeasing to
suggest that Mr. Eisenhower
might consider a visit to Russia
immediately after he has dealt
with the resumption of Con-
gress next January.”
* * *
“Critic,” in London “New
Statesman”: “The Irish have
not lost the bite or ingenuity
of their wit. The following
dialogue was reported to me
as an example of how the rules
of the Dail can be .fairly
circumvented. A Minister had
been caught-out in a singularly
mean trick. A member rose
above the uproar to put a point
of order: —
Member: Is it in order, Mr.
Speaker, to call a Minister a sewer-
rat?
Speaker : I heard no such words
used.
Member : But, Mr. Speaker,
would it be in order for a member
to make such a comparison?
Speaker : Certainly not.
Member (gratefully, as it were
speaking for his constituents):
Thank you, Mr. Speaker. The
sewer-rats will be greatly relieved.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”:
“Someone writes to ‘The Times’
saying that so many U.S. war-
films are shown in Australia
that the children there know
little or nothing of the British
contribution to victory. This,
he thinks, should be corrected.
“So do we. But we would go
farther. Why should cinemas
everywhere show predominantly
one type of adventure-film —the
western? There must be a
wealth of first-class material
within the British Common-
wealth.
“Australia herself has some
wonderful stories to tell of the
early days. So have Canada,
South Africa and other
countries all over the world.
The British have done a bit of
pioneering, too.
“One popular current film is
nothing more than the familiar
Indians-attacking-a-train seq-
uence. But for once the Indians
are in India and the ‘cowboys’
are British Army types. It
shows what can be done, and
should be done more often.”
¥
“New York Times”: “Ameri-
can aid to the underdeveloped
nations of Asia and Africa —
not to mention Eastern
Europe and the Middle East —
is a vital arm of American
foreign policy. But it will
be self-defeating if used to try
to create in countries of totally
different background and cir-
cumstances little mirrors—
politically or economically—-
of the United States.
“President Soekarno put it
this way: ‘Remember that in
dealing with countries such
as Indonesia you are
dealing with a people whose
interests and values and
requirements... .are products
of our history and environ-
ment.... Make no mistake
about it, please, or all your
invaluable efforts can go for
nothing. This would be a
tragedy the world could ill
afford.’ ”
* * *
London “New Statesman”:
“What the British public fails
to understand is why, in her
relations with these two unac-
commodating and obscurantist
Governments [France and West
Germany], Britain should
adopt a defensive and apolo-
getic posture.
‘'When he first set out on his
summit quest this year Mr.
Macmillan acted in the teeth
of Washington’s disapproval;
it was natural, therefore, for
him to move warily. But since
then President Eisenhower has
swung round decisively to the
British viewpoint; the need is
now for more determination,
not less.
“After all, the Anglo-Ameri-
can axis is the core of Nato.
Its views should —if firmly
expressed prevail auto-
matically. General de Gaulle
and Dr. Adenauer, whose pre-
sent contributions to the defen-
sive strength of the alliance are
virtually negligible, have con-
vincingly demonstrated that
single-minded obstinacy can be
an effective substitute for real
power. Why should Britain —
whose contribution to Europe's
defence is second only to
America’s, and which bears a
bigger proportional burden in
the cause of collective security
than any other Western nation
—fail to exert the diplomatic
weight to which these sacrifices
entitle her?”
Various Voices
George Kennan : “We are
not the owners of the planet
we inhabit; we are only its
custodians. There are limita-
tions to the extent to which we
should be permitted to deva-
state or pollute it. Our own
safety and convenience is not
the ultimate of what is at stake
in the judgment of these
problems. These are the
reasons why we ought to be
eager in principle to put aside
the atom as a factor in national
defence.”
* * ♦
Professor P. M. S. Blackett,
physicist: “It is probable that
the use of tactical atomic
weapons on the whole favors
the side which is numerically
the stronger [in ground forces].
So I conclude that they are
not a solution of the West’s
self-set problem of how to be
safe without becoming soldiers.
A vast military blunder has
been committed by our reliance
on atomic weapons and the
neglect of conventional forces.
It would take several years at
least to attempt to close this
conventional-war gap.”
* * *
President de Gaulle: “The
Soviet Union has no doubt
recognised that although she
helped Communism to get into
the saddle in China nothing
can alter the fact that she is
Russia, a white nation of
Europe, a conqueror of a part
of Asia and, in brief, very well
provided with territory, mines,
factories and riches in face
of that yellow multitude which
is China, innumerable and
wretched, indestructible and
ambitious, building-up by a
great effort a power which we
cannot measure.”
* * *
President Eisenhower :
“Liberty is nothing but the
opportunity for self-discipline.
In the long run, no matter how
you cut it, imposed discipline
is dictatorship.”


grey carpet from her blanched
fingers. Then, motionless
among the folds and matted
fringes of the hangings, she
whispers for a long time, grows
older as she whispers. The oil
of contempt rises to the sur-
face of her eyes and flickers
there shot with purple.
Once, deliberately affecting
boyishness and meanwhile
feeling subtle, you say that you
like violets awf’ly much.
Violets are the most exquisite
of flowers, doesn’t she think
so? Doesn’t she agree?
No. No, no. She hates
violets.
But you thought—you were
positive—that scent from her
hair, from her mouth .. . surely
... violets?
She hates them. There is
no flower she loathes more.
Why? You are absolutely
amazed. Why, angel?
Why? Because once, years
ago, when she was younger,
when she first met her hus-
band —but it’s futile to talk
of it. And you are not to
call her angel. Give her a
cigarette. She loves cigarettes
and abhors violets.
Yet, when you visit her
house while her husband is
away, there are bowls of
violets on the piano, the
chimneypiece, tables. She
wears a tragic gown and moves
about the room. It is twilight.
And candlelight, long dark
candles: something is dying.
■Dlease, please, please, you
are not to smoke. You do
understand, don’t you? She
cannot bear cigarettes.
She plays on the piano songs
you have heard before but
cannot name. The violets emit
a wavering fragrance. The
candle-flames are moveless.
Watching her you feel older
than she. She rests her hands
on the keys and, without facing
you, talks in a voice that seems
not her own or any woman’s:
You really have never loved
another woman?
Never. She knows that.
She doesn’t mean physically.
You have never loved a woman
romantically, on -a - pedestal
sort of thing . . . ?
Never. And certainly never
physically until you met her.
Never? Never, never, never?
Never,
Of course, she knows that
you’ll never forget her. You’ll
never be able to. Never. She,
herself, knows that.
Never; she knows that.
Why never?
How could you forget her!
That is not an answer, fool.
Men are fools. They never
know how to speak. Could
you, for instance, tell her
why you love her?
That is difficult. Words are
insects that fly in the wrong
direction, to sting, to poison.
You know that you are a
young man and that she . . .
No, you cannot find the words.
“Saint Paul Wrote a bra ’ big passel o’ letters, my friends,
but ’e dedden 'ave to pay fivepence postage on them.”
t ry. Find words. Tell her
about herself.
Well, you . . . you . . .
Listen: she is the quintessence
of female. She is the perfect
afternoon of femininity, the
cameo of sophisticated lust . . .
Love, that is. She is voluptu-
ous. No, that is wrong. She
is not voluptuous. But the
tide of money flooding her
veins, the flawless extravagance
of her trappings, the culture
of herself . . . body and voice,
vice and charm . . . give her
a penumbra of . . . of . . .
volupte.
She laughs. So ; clever young
man! The tide of money!
Eh! You must go now. She
has a headache ; the violets —
it is too revolting—have given
her a cataclysmic headache.
She will get rid of that house-
keeper that gibbering
deformity of a housekeeper.
Violets! She will take some
tablets, and then sleep. First,
however, a cigarette.
Now it is a thundery day ;
the leaves in the city
gardens turn pallid undersides
to the thunder. You and she
stand facing each other like
characters in a play, by an
artificial pond with its
exhausted pampas plumes and
its arid fountain. Her eyes
are suspended, full of esoteric
wisdom, in the luminous
shadow of her hat-brim.
She says things that you
feel are truths never to be
forgotten ; you realise that she
has suffered much and that,
from her distress, a queer plant
has grown and borne distorted
flowers that can live only on
distress and wealth. These
seem, under the clouds of
pewter and while a swan floats
mindlessly on the pond, to be
imperishable. But all that you
wish to remember is gone
when she is gone. You are
able to decide no more than
that the complexities of her
being, effeminate, wilful,
subtle, each has in it a hairline
of gold, of money. She is
lewd, immoral, careless and
clever. It is impossible for
her to be crude, unfascinating
or undesirable.
The special rules of your
lives decree that you must part
often: at the altaltissimi of
weary hills of stairs, by the
tables of restaurants devoted
less to eating than to inter-
minable and amorous conver-
sations. You depart from
each other, she to unimaginable
places, you to your white
retreat.
She has several times
expressed curiosity about the
room ; she would like to see
it ; one night she would like
to sleep there. With off-
handedness matching hers you
avoid her. The monk remains
beneath the skylight.
Nevertheless it is obvious
to you that finesse feeds
curiosity, that hers has become
avid and will consume you.
It must be obvious to her that
you read her desire and will
fight to protect your last celi-
bacy. She cannot believe that
woman and money will fail.
She places her hand on your
forehead ; she loves you —and
yawns as she thinks of the
time when the waterlily stalk
of your refuge will be snapped.
She sees herself shedding a
hairpin upon the floor, desert-
ing a glove upon a block of
manuscript.
Just as clearly you see your-
self scrubbing desperately at
the exact white diamond of
linoleum on which a hairpin
has fallen, scrubbing hope-
lessly to remove the unseen
but ineradicable print, trying
vainly to flourish out the odor
of woman.
Suddenly, too soon, it is
midsummer, hot and
bronze. Outside fumes a
planet of cinders. Above the
smell of the city, which is like
the smell of bougainvillea, rises
the smell of petrol and the
smell of cellar kitchens. She
lies very still . . . too still . . .
camellia . . . camellia . . .
Only her eyes live, pulses under
them ; her eyes are black
opals.
• She is exhausted. She will
go mad. This room . . . !
Your room, it'is cool, isn't it?
Awake, your mind dry, you
do not answer.
Your room is cool, isn't it?
Answer her.
Yes.
Must you be such a mono-
syllabic oaf? Your room is
cool?
Yes. Always cool.
You must take her there.
Again you do not answer.
How can you be so cruel
to her? She is dying. This
place, on a night like this —
on any night—is too impos-
sible. Sue is ineffably tired
of it. It oppresses her: the
decor is too heavy, worse than
the Guelph’s. Port - wine-
colored carpets and mahogany
beds and baroque cornices
bore her. She is always expect-
ing someone in sweaty livery
to enter with a bunch of full-
blown tea-roses or a plate of
cucumber sandwiches. All on
a silver salver —my God, a
warm, sticky silver salver!
She is tired of sinning in
such settings. She is sure
there are waiters in court-shoes
about. She can smell cherry
brandy and madeira cake. The
carpets are too thick; she
wants to walk on linoleum.
Yes, yes, yes. She insists on
being taken to your damned
studio. Instantly. See, she is
(Continued on page 53)


m
s
F
A...
I
m
msm
*%\
SJ
gf?p£
The Engineering
Policy behind Holden
A 3-POINT
FORMULA
FOR BETTER
Three ideas are basic to everything done in the Engineer-
ing Department at General Motors-Holden’s. First, the
belief that what matters to the Australian motorist is how
his car performs under Australian conditions. Second,
the ruling that every modification to Holden must be
proved before it reaches the motoring public. Third,
the GMH policy of constant improvement.
To put these basic ideas into practice, GMH Engineers
have a tool that is unique in Australia . . . the GMH
Proving Ground at Lang Lang, Victoria.
Here, on more than 2,000 acres of land, 56 miles
from Melbourne,-GMH have built a scientific cross-
section of Australian motoring conditions sealed
roads, gravel, crushed rock, pot-holes, hills, curves,
dust, mud, water. And it is here that Holden is put
through its paces. Not just in a random way; but on a
precise schedule designed to test the car in every phase
of its operation. So many miles at one speed, such and
such a distance at another, so many times up a hill of a
certain gradient, this many stops, that many starts from
cold. All tabulated, all carefully recorded.
That is the way Ihe 3-point formula is applied to
Holden. The tests are carried out in Australia to fit
Australian conditions. No modification is adopted until
it has proved itself at Lang Lang. And this programme
of improvement is a continuous one —some component,
some design feature is always under investigation at the
Proving Ground ... to make Holden better, more
economical, more in line with what the customer wants.
The GMH Proving Ground is the only one of its kind
in Australia—just as Holden is the only car designed for
this country.
And the 3-point engineering formula put into practice
at Lang Lang is just one of the many factors that make
Holden what it is today ... the greatest value on
Australian roads.
GENERAL MOTORS - H OLDEN ’ S LTD
A link in the chain of Australia's progress ... a partner in Australia's future!
BRISBANE . SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PE


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Another Pressman
Remembers
I have been reading my old
friend B. S. B. Cook’s
“Memoirs of a Pioneer Press-
man” with great interest, for I
was on the literary staff of the
Melbourne “Argus” from 1911
to 1936 and was on the Federal
Parliamentary reporting-staff
of the same paper when Cook
was Federal roundsman for the
“Herald.”
As his memoirs are of
absorbing interest and will
probably be quoted by histor-
ians in years to come, I’m
sure Cook won’t mind my
correcting three statements hi
the instalment of 18/11/’59.
In this instalment Cook
says:
He [Mr. Shepherd] told me that
Mr. Hughes was about to go to
London to attend a post-war con-
ference and that Lloyd Dumas, of
the staff of the Adelaide “Adver-
tiser” (later Sir Lloyd), was going
with him as private-secretary and
would do all his personal publicity
work It was not -long after
Hughes left Australia that he and
Dumas had a serious fall-out on
the ship, and the newly-appointed
private- and press-secretary promptly
resigned.
In the first place Hughes and
his party arrived in London in
May, 1918, five months before
the end of the war.
Secondly, Lloyd Dumas was
not then on the staff of the
Adelaide “Advertiser.” He was
Federal Parliamentary represen-
tative of the Melbourne
“Argus.”
Thirdly, Dumas may have
had a row with the Prime
Minister on the ship, but the
breach which led to his resigna-
tion and return to Australia
did not take place until Hughes
had been two or three weeks
in London.
I know all this because, after
having been declared unfit for
further active service, I had
been seconded to the publicity
department in Australia House.
When Lloyd resigned, Hughes,
whom I had known through
reporting Federal party-debates
for the “Argus,” sent for me
and asked me to take the job.
This I did, and was with him
from June, 1918, to February,
1919 —no mean achievement
with Billy!
Bert Cook is correct in say-
ing: “I have seen some of the
"It's got that Way We now do our Sunday jaunts by
remote-control."
Hansard galley-proofs of
Hughes’s speeches with his
alterations almost completely
filling the margins.... to
improve some of his sentences
or to insert a more appro-
priate word. He certainly made
his speeches read more
smoothly.”
Hughes was so keen to get
exactly what he meant into the
press that he was a sore trial
fo me on one tour we made
under the auspices of the
British Empire League to York,
Hull, Bradford and Leeds in
October, 1918.
Because of the manpower-
shortage the London dailies
could not send a man to cover
this tour, and I made arrange-
ments with the “Times,” the
“Daily Telegraph” and the
“Morning Post” to send reports
to them.
The “Times” wanted not
more than 1000 words, the
“Telegraph” 1500 words and
the “Morning Post” 500 words
daily. This meant a lot of
work, particularly when the
meetings were in the evenings ;
but what made it worse was
that the Prime Minister wanted
to see the typed messages before
they were taken to the tele-
graph-office, because at that
time the defeat of Germany
was certain, and he was cam-
paigning for former German
New Guinea to be under the
control of Australia. So he did
with my messages exactly what
Bert Cook said he did with
the Hansard proofs—and then
I had to type them out again! I
kept one of those typewritten
sheets as altered by him as a
memento of one of my most
strenuous reporting-jobs.
There was an interesting
incident at Hull when Hughes
was presented with the freedom
of the city. After the ceremony
the Lord Mayor introduced
Mr. and Mrs. Burwell, of
West Hull, both of whom knew
Hughes as a boy. Burwell was
music-master at Llandudno
Grammar School, which
Hughes, as a youth, had atten-
ded. Burwell was also organist
and choirmaster at Holy Trinity
Church, Llandudno, and had
“Billy” as a choirboy. Hughes
told me afterwards that it was
there he earned his first money
—a half-crown given him by
Burwell for half-a-quarter’s fee
as a choirboy!
Burwell, to whom I spoke
later, said that Billy was a very
mischievous boy, always up to
impish tricks, but “had some
very good qualities.”—H. A.
Davies (Vic.), Federal Presi-
dent of the Australian Journa-
lists’ Association, 1921-22, and
President of the Victoria
District A.J.A., 1919-20.
Soekarno’s “Demands”
It is unfortunate that on the
eve of Prime Minister Menzies’s
visit to Indonesia so many Aus-
tralian newspapers should have
published misleading reports of
President Soekarno’s remarks at
the Colombo Plan conference
in Jogjakarta.
The misunderstanding was
not deliberate ; it apparently
arose from some translation
difficulties and was accentuated
by the necessary condensation
of messages for cabling.'
The full report shows nothing
that could be described as
ungracious, ungrateful or likely
to create resentment. The Presi-
dent certainly used the word
tuntutan (demand) in his
speech, but the context showed
that his meaning was not inter-
preted correctly in the versions
published in Australia. He was
discussing coexistence between
the various social, economic
and political systems, and got in
a not-unusual dig at “colonial-
ism.” Here is the direct quota-
tion :
The world of wealth is now
talking frankly about its wealth, and
peoples from the world of poverty
listen and formulate their demand
for life.... They demand sufficient
food and clothing. They demand
education. They demand to be
free from diseases which can be
prevented. They demand full life
which will make growth of their
capacities possible. They demand
responsibility for their own future
... .Colonialism could not fulfil
these demands... .therefore colonial-
ism should end.
Dr. Soekarno praised the
Colombo Plan as “a fine
example of co-operation,” and
said that both recipients and


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO AUGUSTUS JOHN DAVID DAVID-
SON late of 9 Simpson Street Dundas.
—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
MERLE DAVIDSON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 725 of 1959 on
the ground of repeated assaults and
cruel beatings during one year If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 16th day
of February 1960 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
GERALD W. MITCHELL & GARLAND,
of 39 Hunter Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO VALMA IVY CLARK late or Canley
Vale near Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
LAURENCE ARTHUR CLARK has filed
his Petition for Divorce No. 3988 of
1959 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you intend to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 11th Feb-
ruary 1960 and obtain a copy of the
Petition free of charge from BRIGGS,
WEBSTER & O’SHEA, Solicitors, 63
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept., NEW SUB. / RENEWAL
The Bulletin Newspaper, (please cross out one)
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please find enclosed my cheque / money-order f0r ......
months' subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS:
DONOR:..
ADDRESS:
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a Christmas gift
fin appropriate Greetings-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD
Rates (A/asia): 1 year —£2 Bs.; \ year — £1 4s. 6d. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s, Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
donors had benefited. He
declared that aid given by
foreign countries was evi-
dence that humanity was grow-
ing more mature.
He certainly said that “aids
will be more beneficial if they
follow the basic patterns and
lines which we Ourselves lay-
down for our development,”
but it is explained that by this
he was thinking of the Indo-
nesian planning-scheme which
hopes to- eliminate inefficient
use of Colombo Plan aid.
Admittedly, the Indonesian
President also talked of what
would happen when Indonesia’s
88-million people started to
move, however slowly.
“They will have immense
force,” he said, “which will
crush-down and obliterate all
opposition as surely as the flow
of lava from one of our vol-
canoes.” He was referring,
however, to the co-operative
movements as reflected in the
Colombo Plan, the Indonesian
gotong royong or mutual assis-
tance, as opposed to efforts to
enrich merely the elite of a
nation.
Misunderstandings between
nations are so easy that efforts
to avoid them are essential.
This was certainly an unfor-
tunate example, and it is to be
hoped that Mr. Menjzies has not
been misled by it. — Charles
Meeking (N.S.W.).
Future of Formosa
Charles Meeking says (B.
11/11 /’59): “So far as For-
mosa is concerned, time is on
the side of the Chinese, and
they know it. We should do
something promptly.”
America is the only Western
Power likely to “do” anything,
promptly or otherwise. All
that we Australians can do is
to decide where we stand in
the matter, while hoping that
America will do- nothing
foolish.
If America pulled out of
Formosa now no Asian country
would dare to withstand the
Chinese. India and Pakistan
would have to make what terms
they could, and the weaker
States would simply drop into
the Communist bag. Our posi-
tion in Singapore and Malaya
would become impossible.
Neither Britain nor America
can afford to retreat another
yard anywhere in Asia.
On the other hand, no
softening on the Formosa
front can be expected from
China while America backs
Chiang Kai - shek, whose
declared purpose is to re-enter
and “liberate” mainland China.
Chiang has Buckley’s chance
of doing that; but he may
possibly instigate or encourage
revolt on a scale to embarrass
Mao Tse-tung’s Government,
and to hamper seriously the
carrying-out of Mao’s plans at
home and abroad.
If a serious revolution
occurred in China, how far
would America go in support-
ing it? Mao can’t be sure.
The Americans themselves
don’t know. To encourage and
to support in any degree a
revolution in China, and then
be forced to abandon the
rebels to massacre, would be
an unspeakable crime and a
blunder that the West could
not afford.
Chiang Kai - shek and his
crowd had their chance to
govern China, and frittered it
away. They should be en-
couraged now to fade grace-
fully out of the picture ; and
Chinese malcontents should be
told plainly that crusades are
out of fashion. In the long-
run the Chinese will get the
Government they deserve.
Right now they deserve better
than to have Chiang foisted on
them.
In point of population and
in some other respects Formosa
is comparable to Australia, and
presumably is as competent for
self-government as, say, Singa-
pore or Laos. It might help
Western relations with China
if Formosa were made a
sovereign independent State,
the maintenance of that
independence and sovereignty
to be ensured by a composite
garrison, substantially Ameri-
can, but sponsored by the
U.N., which would at once
protect and restrain Chiang
and his supporters. Such an
arrangement would save
American “face,” and serve
Western interests generally
quite as well as the present
set-up.
If America then formally
disclaimed all intentions of
invading China or of inter-
fering in China’s internal
affairs, and if the offshore
islands were evacuated, Mao
might explicity or tacitly accept
the new state of affairs.
It may be that the ultimate
destiny of Formosa is to revert
to China. That should be
decided by the Formosans,
themselves in due course ; but
the Western Powers must of
necessity insist that the deci-
sion be not made hastily, and
that there be no absorption
until time shall have cancelled
America’s obligation to protect
the Chinese emigres from
persecution.
Meanwhile China can afford
to wait, and we have nothing
to gain by precipitate action.
Time is on the side of peace.
—Jas. Macansh (Q.).


WHEN THE McMAHON LINE BUCKLED
Tndia recognises the McMahon
Line as her northern
boundary ; China doesn’t. But
a point that every on-the-spot
“special correspondent” seems
to have missed is that over a big
part of the disputed territory
the “line" hasn't existed for
T , , . .
h H
buckled and vanished in the
greatest and least-publicised
upheaval of recent history.
ic men u
On August 15. 1950 through.
out a big area where the
boideis of Assam, China and
I ibet meet, life paused for a
few seconds in bewildered sus-
pense as an ominous rumble
came from deep down in the
eaith. It grew louder, surpassed
anything its hearers had ever
heard or imagined, and reached
a crescendo as the earth rocked
and heaved.
Then buildings and big
boulders and animals were
tossed into the air like corks ;
billions of tons of earth and
trees were burled from the
mountain-slopes down into the
valleys ; rivers vanished in a
minute, and new rivers
appeared ; mighty earthen
dams were hurled across river-
beds to form huge lakes hun-
dreds of feet deep ; strong winds
churned-up dust which reduced
visibility to practically nil; and
a sulphurous smell filled the
a ' r - All over the world seismo-
graphs went crazy. 1 hose
within 2000 miles of the
fl uaKe s centre were knocked-
°ut a ‘ ,he fir . st A 0
the other side of the globe,
reCOrderS Were thrown the
„ r anh.ranpr
, '.
Seismologists are scientists,
not given to rhetoric or flights
f f but in their clas S sifi .
' cation o£ earthquakes they - V e
included about the only descrip-
tion suitable for a quake of
that intensity. That classifica-
tion lists 12 intensities ranging
from “imperceptible” (recorded
by instruments only) through
“very feeble,” “feeble” and
“moderate” to “destructive,”
which is No. 8 and applies
when gaps appear in walls and
some buildings are demolished ;
then through “highly destruc-
five,” “devastating,” “catast-
rophic” and finally “major
catastrophic” or “damage
total,” when every human
structure is destroyed,
The Assam earthquake of
1950 was “damage total” in its
fullest sense. Those two words
convey even more than does
the estimate, given by one
authority, that three-million
atomic bombs of the type
which destroyed Hiroshima
wouldn’t have achieved a com-
parable result.
In that region at the eastern
end of the Himalayas nearly
2000 square-miles of country
which had contained some of
the most fertile valleys in the
world and had been the home
of half-a-million people was
turned into an impenetrable
waste.
The Chinese quickly found
how impenetrable it was. Three
weeks after the upheaval they
invaded Tibet; and a few
months later they set-out to
demarcate the McMahon Line
where it establishes the Tibet-
Assam border. In that area of
“damage total” their expedi-
tion floundered for months,
suffered heavy casualties
through daily landslides and
failed to reach the border.
In a country like Australia
it’s hard to visualise the lasting
destruction that can ensue
when an earthquake strikes at
a mountainous jungle-region
with a rainfall measured in
hundreds of inches. Four great
rivers and innumerable big
streams drain this region into
the mighty Brahmaputra, one
of India’s sacred rivers which
has always been a destructive
force in flood.
Those rivers and streams
were dammed in hundreds of
places when the mountains
were hurled into the valleys,
and some of the dams lasted
days before they released the
pent-up streams to sweep down
on villages and towns ; others
held for weeks, while the lakes
behind them filled and grew,
and, when they burst, the
valleys below them were inun-
dated and swept of every living
thing.
One of the dams was
reported to have stretched four
miles across a valley and to
have held for eight months.
There may not be a man-made
lake in Australia with the
capacity of that weir; and
when it gave, the deluge washed
away not only towns but forests
and countrysides.
The destruction continued
for years. At each flood the
Brahmaputra carried thou-
sands, possibly millions, of
tons of silt down from the hills
into the sea ; and possibly even
now the loosened, shaken earth
is fallirig into the rivers, and
still great areas are quagmires
where an army would flounder.
Jn that region, at least, the
dispute about the. McMahon
Line will never be resolved.
Nature established more last-
ing boundaries in those few
moments of “damage total.” —
Gravelsnatcher (W.A.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 568
Across
I—Potentate to savagely criticise New Year percussion. (10)
6 —Disposed of an old coin added to pence. (4)
9 —Paddle with this one in the alternative. (3)
10— Aria given in English. (3)
11 — Jumped up with the broken plate. (5)
14— A pure emu’s disorderly order to conform to specifica-
tions. (7, 2)
15 — A composer to rue one. (5)
16 — Business on United Nations furniture can be included
in the computation. (9)
18 — A mineral football roofing. (6)
19— Where four roads meet some bus
with the musically loud
chopper. (6)
21 — Foster his name for Esmond the
Lustreless. (6)
22 Do a favor for big Leo. (6)
25 Bridge achievement is a very
impressive closure. (5, 4)
26 Coppers have some schism to
run with wind and current —
you’ll get it if you get mine. (5)
27 — Male surfing in just the weather
for it. (4, 5)
30' —Half of a toy private's self-
disciplinarians. (5)
32 — Not much superior to monkey
island. (3)
33 — Strike an obstacle with the foot
excursion. (4)
34 Musicians having tea with queer
boys. (10)
Down
1 — But it doesn’t add to the expenses
of keeping parrots. (4, 3)
2 (3)
3 Home idol mice chewed. (8)
4 Listener upset this girl. (3)
5 Skylight wherewith you managed
us. (6)
6 Desired only its heart! (3)
7 There’s metal in this Swedish
coin. (3)
8 — Clive fought against this double-
nine. (7)
10 —Doris is after our land near
the end of January. (9, 3)
12— A lust aria rendered at the home
of many of the world’s outstand-
ing singers. (9)
13— What’s this unlucky blue? (8, 4)
17—Knocking about with the mono-
gram of Brian Upton-Ferguson,
and generally wining and
dining. (9)
20— Black mother given some total
cow’s stomach. (8)
21 — Not an elegant display of bats-
manship from hot-dogs. (7) "
23 Swears it’s attending grand-
mother’s funeral during the
cricket season. (7)
24 — Humanity js his stock drool. (6)
28— doubt my own existence, pre-
sumably, according to a friend
abroad. (3)
29 Controller of the flow strike. (3)
31 —Ineligible to bat, and has nothing
to do, according to Guido. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 567


If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
going to get ready. You are
to dress now. She will be
ready immediately.
Deserted —even hy yourself
—you feel hollow, shocked,
bewildered. You try not to
remember that somewhere in
her neurotic soliloquy is
entangled a thread, finer than
one of her hairs and bitter as
the ash of unenjoyed cigarettes,
of truth. Still, you know that,
for a whim, she is using her-
self and her unhappiness to
erase restlessness, summer
boredom, boredom with life
and passion. You do not
know what to do.
You dress, and telephone for
a taxi.
You and she enter the taxi,
the hearse. The hearse goes
through the charred and
suffocating city canyons and
arrives too soon at the door
of the high stucco tomb.
'Y r ou open the door and the
•*- stench of cold tiles and
stairs of basalt moves across
your mouth. You begin to
climb the stairs, your stairs.
The first flight of basalt changes
to the second of wood and
brown linoleum. The piano,
wakened by your distressed
footsteps and the over-civilised
fragrance from her body . . .
camellia . . . camellia . . .
begins to sing softly with long
trills in its throat.
She knows, wretch —you
cannot hide it from her —that
you do not want her to come.
Darling, she must not be
silly.
But you do not.
Darling, darling. She mustn’t
be absurd.
Why don’t you want her to
come?
Angel!
Why? Why? And how
sweet of you to call her angel
—sweet. But why don’t you
want her to come? You love
her?
She knows that.
Then, why?
She would not understand.
She will understand. Of
course she will.
No. First, she is a woman.
And then she is not a creative
woman . . .
Oh, not creative. Not
creative. Even if that be true,
she must know.
Then —you will never be
able to write there again.
Nonsense!
You knew she would not
understand. The room is—
er—consecrated. Call it a
refuge, a workshop . . . oh,
what does it matter! Maybe,
after all, the idea that she will
defile it by entering is nonsense.
Utter! Arty old thing you
are. A room is merely a
room. Anyway, she will dis-
turb nothing. She will float in
touching nothing. She will
be as holy as an abbess, as
sexless as a ... as a .. . Kiss
her, right here at the stair-
head. After that she will not
even speak. She will peep at
your blessed sanctum and go
away. She will be as sexless
as a ... as a . . .
That isn’t necessary. She
must be herself. There is the
door, that grey one. You will
not only kiss her ; once, inside
you will absolutely ravish her.
That will teach her to pry into
young men’s apartments.
You are both laughing, two
strange creatures laughing
strangely, when your hand
touches the grey door. A pain
strikes from the door’s surface
into your arm. You grip the
handle. Laughter ceases.
Quickly she plucks your hand
away. Nothing is said. You
are forced to look into her
eyes.
You see in them a number
of emotions fountaining up.
Among them, destroying all
the others, is an emotion to
which you must apply adjec-
tives you would never have
thought of applying to her or
her emotions: sweet, maternal,
sympathetic. The emotion is
pure with the purity of new-
ness, not with the purity of
polish.
Then she is gone.
~\rou will not see her like that
again. The last bubble of
untainted air left in the cock-
tail of her being has broken
to the surface, has floated
away outside the shell-wrinkled
door.
Her scent fades down corri-
dors and stairs ; an expensive
wraith passes brown door
after brown door. The piano,
foundered in the well of stucco,
sobs in its throat joyously,
softly, softly.
Now, at last, you know
something.
The one tear that drops
from your heart is whiter than
your heart, whiter than paper
or camellias or flesh. And
when you open the door the
lonely white there is whiter ;
the anchorite is unmoved as
ever, eternal guest of a room
which woman now will
never enter.
the seat again with a short-arm
jolt to the chin.
From a sitting position Harry
lashed-out straight and hard,
catching Baldy in the solar
plexus. With a grunt of pain
Baldy collapsed on top of
Johnny.
Johnny struggled free and
moved quietly to our end of
the carriage. Jan followed him.
As Harry leapt after Baldy,
it struck me that Jan might be
scared. I turned my head to
look at him. He was craning
forward, intent on seeing every
punch, his eyes gleaming, his
body and hands moving
involuntarily with the move-
ments of the combatants.
TV/ffJCK suddenly cried a warn-
ing. “Look out! The
guard!”
The door swung open, and
the guard, a big rawboned
bloke who looked like a pug
himself, glared at Harry and
Baldy, who were trying to look
normal as they panted for
breath.
“What’s the big idea?”
Johnny smiled at him. “Ah,
just a friendly scuffle. Nothing
serious.”
• The guard cocked a sceptical
eye at Baldy’s bleeding nose,
Harry’s split lip, and their
dishevelled clothing.
“Looks like it. What’s your
names?”
Nobody spoke. The guard
snatched a pencil from behind
his ear, ripped a page from
-his ticket-book. “Come on.
You: what’s your name?”
“Roberts.”
“Christian names?”
“Claude.”
“Claude what?”
“Just Claude.”
Old Baldy “Claude”! I could
hardly keep from laughing.
It was difficult to couple him
with any name but Baldy.
“You?”
“Baines. Henry Alexander.”
Henry. Claude and Henry.
“Right,’’"the guard snapped.
“Addresses?”
He got them, swung out,
and the train started.
As soon as the door slammed
behind him, Baldy dropped
quickly onto the seat. Harry
immediately grabbed him by
the collar, and it was on again.
They lurched and fell, locked
together, wrestling, punching,
pulling, until the train stopped
at Ferndale, where Harry
lived.
When Harry got. out, Baldy
pulled his clothes straight and
leaned back stolidly as if noth-
ing ,had happened, except that
now and then he brushed the
back of his hand across his
upper lip, and once or twice
moved his jaw experimentally.
No one spoke until we
reached the terminus, but you
could see that Jan was bursting
with curiosity.
"M'ext day Mick and I were
first in the carriage as
usual. It was the same guard,
and he eyed us off as we got in.
We sat quiet, smoking, wait-
ing to see what would happen.
The next to arrive was
Baldy. He nodded, and sat
down in the corner diagonally
opposite to me. There was
no sign of Harry.
Just before the train started,
Johnny got in, alone.
“Hullo,” Mick said.
“Where’s your little cobber?”
“Jan?”
“Yeah.”
Johnny flicked a look at
Baldy. “He was too scared
to come, after yesterday.”
I laughed. “Don’t give us
that. He enjoyed every second
of it.”
“Oh, it wasn’t the fighting
scared him. He was a bit of
a pug himself, back home.”
That accounted for the
gleam in his eyes, the involun
tary movements of his body
and hands as he watched the
brawl.
“Then . . . ?”
“What scared him was what
it was all about.”
“Eh?”
“He thought it was over a
woman. That didn’t worry
him at all: he thought it was
natural for two men to be
fighting over a woman.”
Johnny took out the mak-
ings, rolled a cigarette, poked
the loose tobacco in at the
ends, wet the tip and lit-up.
He leaned back, blew out a
stream of almost invisible
smoke, then shook his head.
“Queer, these foreigners.
You ought to have seen his face
when I told him they were
fighting over the corner seat.”


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE AUSTRALIAN DAIRY-INDUSTRY
From A.S. BINGLE
■|2|AfiMS in the Australian
dairy-industry are of two
main types: those grouped
around the capital cities to
form the milk-zones, and those
(outside these zones) which
produce butter and cheese and
are supported by neighboring
factories.
There is a third, category of
farm where there may, perhaps,
be a small dairy-herd, but
where the main activity is
agriculture, and where cereals,
vegetables and other crops are
grown for sale. These, which
can be classed as mixed-farms,
are outside the scope of this
present article.
The production of any dairy-
farm must depend chiefly on
the quality and situation of its
land and the value of stock
used for production. If a
high standard is to be reached
and maintained careful growth
and conservation of fodder
are necessary, and if over-
stocking and similar mal-
On the Ist June last,
the sheep population of
Canada was 1,761,000
head. This represents
an increase of 2.8 per
cent., or 48,000 head
over sheep numbers on
the Ist June, 1958.
Sheep population in
Australia is much larger
than in Canada, but l
wonder how many more
sheep could be saved
by the Elastrator method
of Castrating and Tail-
ing? Australian graziers
who pride themselves
in the care of their
sheep use Elastrator,
the humane method of
Castrating and Tailing.
Elastrator lessens the
risk of fly-strike, and
other diseases usually
associated with old-
fashioned methods, be-
cause Elastrator is
scientific, bloodless, and
completely effective.
practices are to be avoided
correct farm-management is
important.
Farms In Milk-zones
On dairyfarms within the
milk-zones farm-management
is usually satisfactory as far as
general knowledge of stock,
crops, etc., go, though it may
miss-out on research which
might improve the general
economy of the farm. These
farms seem to follow the
policy of producing the milk-
quota allotted to them by the
controlling Milk Board. The
basis for allotting this quota
is to strike an average of what
the farm can produce in lean
and flush climatic conditions,
but, in addition to the estab-
lished quota, the board —per-
liaps playing for safety—
insists when granting the quota
that the farm shall produce a
certain percentage above the
quota, largely taken from
whole milk going to the local
factory for buttermaking.
I do not question the board’s
policy in making sure that the
cities will have an adequate
supply of fresh milk, but I
can’t help questioning the
over-percentage that must be
provided from surplus milk,
and I feel sure that there
should be investigation and
research into what should be
done with the surplus. The
over-percentage varies in zones,
according to their distance
from the central metropolis
where milk is distributed. For
instance, I understand that a
farmer at. Wauchope, on the
N.S.W. North Coast, has to
produce 43 per cent, above
his quota, whereas a farmer
nearer Sydney may only have
to produce 20 per cent.
Surplus Milk
Because they consider the
price they receive to be highly
profitable many farmers aim
to be allotted a high quota
for supplying to the Milk
Board, and some then find it
hard to maintain the output.
Others find it more economic
to have a smaller quota, with
a big surplus left for use in
other ways. This, they say, is
the easier alternative ; it causes
fewer labor-worries and gives
them more profit in the long
run.
Some say pig-raising is
profitable if pigs are fed on
surplus milk. It certainly has
often proved useful to dairy-
farmers as a sideline, when
practised scientifically and
with minimum labor. But for
success in raising pigs you
must pay proper attention to
both accommodation and
husbandry, and yet keep a
correct balance, never allow-
ing additional labor to affect
the economy of the project.
The present world-demand
for pork and bacon is by no
means encouraging. Today in
the U.S.A. and Canada huge
surpluses are kept in store and
farmers have been receiving a
Government subsidy—never a
healthy sign in any industry.
Satisfied that rearing heifer-
calves to three months gives a
better comparative return than
either pig-raising or selling
surplus milk, I have advocated
research by State agricultural
departments and the C.5.1.R.0.
on this subject.
Vealers
Some cows in any dairy-
herd, though only marginal
milk-producers, have a high
potential value for rearing
calves. I recognise that stock-
ing the property must at all
times be the first considera-
tion these cows receive
forced food as part of the herd
—but, generally speaking, many
farms have outside paddocks
which are not put to full use,
and that’s where vealers can
be raised.
In England and on the
Continent, when all cattle-
herds were depleted after War
11, it was found that the dairy-
industry could dovetail into the
beef-producing industry to the
benefit of both. Marginal cows
or surplus milk from the dairy
were used to grow more calves.
As Dr. Hammond stated,
when he recently visited Aus-
tralia, there are some cows
that can handle as mv.ny as
seven calves over a period of
six or seven months, boosting
their growth and condition
from a bobby stage to three
months old. 'T believe, there-
fore, that vealer-production
could play a big part in help-
ing marginal dairyfarms. The
principle to follow is one calf
to one gallon a day.
Comparative Facts
Those who have followed
this policy and collected calves
have found it profitable. Com-
petent farmers in Queensland
and N.S.W. claim that they
do "better from rearing one
crossbred vealer on a dairy-cow
to seven or eight months than
from having to accept the price
for surplus milk, and certainly
better than they’d do if they
sent cows that had fallen-off in
production to slaughter. A
bobby-calf of 801 b. is worth
about £6 at the most, whereas
at eight months it will fetch
up to £4O. You must remem-
ber, too, that part of the price
for surplus milk includes a
Government subsidy, while in
rearing the. vealer there’s none


:W
W '
11
new kind of forage harvester • • «
so rugged it turns rocks into soil
The Tritter is the most versatile of all forage
harvesters, not only in the type of country that
it will handle, but in the scope of its uses. The
basic Tritter comes equipped with a main chute
which stands almost vertically upright above the
bowl and feeds into its own self-contained silage
basket. This has a capacity of about cubic
yards.
The same chute is employed in a different posi-
tion on the main bowl at about 45 degrees back
from the first position for the loading of tipping
trailers. Tipping trailers are available in 10-yard,
15-yard, and 20-yard capacity. The Tritter may
also be employed for side loading with a special
top chute or spout.
4flb. AXE HAMMERS
WITHSTOOD TOUGH
3 MONTHS’ FIELD TEST
Keesteel axe hammers on the Tritter
pivot on 1 1" diameter high tensile steel
pins. These replace the conventional
flimsy flails and light pins of outdated
forage harvesters. This means that
under normal grass conditions there
is no wear whatsoever. Under test on
the Yeomans Keyline demonstration
properties the Tritter was deliberately
driven through rocky outcrops such as
shown at left. No breakdown occurred
during the whole test time. Now those
areas have been converted to smooth
pasture. The Tritter still does a better
job of forage harvesting than any
machine we have seen.
few
Banks of heavy axe hammers rotate at high speed.
This has flywheel effect, enabling use of small
tractors.
YEOMANS
PROPRIETARY LTD.
537 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
188 JAMES STREET, TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND
Here at last is a
forage harvester
that won’t break
down. The Yeomans
Tritter was designed
at the request of
clients for an effi-
cient cutter and
loader that would
eliminate stones,
boulders, low stumps
and re-growth. The
Tritter does all this
in the most spec-
tacular way and cuts
and loads forage
faster as a result.
The Tritter pulver-
ises rook, mulches
scrub, shears off tough stumps, can be drawn
by a light tractor and does its job of harvesting
and loading supremely well.
The Tritter is made in four sizes. Based on the
width of cut, they are 42", 50", 60" and 80".
Each size Tritter has its own appropriate forage
basket or can be supplied without forage basket
and with any of the various capacity trailers
already enumei'ated.
I
1
POST THIS COUPON NOW
To Yeomans Pty. Ltd.
537 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
Please send full details of the Yeomans
Tritter
TO
ADDRESS ;
MAKE OF TRACTOR
HORSEPOWER
I would like to receive your free publication
“Keyline Comment”.
\ bo/b’.r


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
R
of this. Many farmers, there-
fore, say they would rather
receive £4O for a vealer than
£6O or more in return for milk
over the same period.
This argument, so far, con-
cerns only one vealer, but if
it is possible to put two or
even three on selected cows,
or if supplementary feeding or
“creep-grazing” (as practised
in England) can be used, it
would help the beef-industry
as well as dairying. Farmers
around Monto (Q.) and on
the northern rivers of N.S.W.
are at present rearing two
calves to each cow and turn-
ing them off at 10 months,
generally weighing more than
3001 b. dressed.
Outside the Milk-zones
The real problem-areas are
the marginal farms outside the
milk-zones. In those problem-
areas extension-services from
agricultural departments or
other bodies should, in my
opinion, undertake research and
investigation to educate
farmers in how to make best
use of their marginal cows,
possibly on the lines I have
just suggested.
The immediate question
seems to be: Where will such
a farmer get hold of the right
type of bull to follow the plan
of vealer - production? In
Canada the Government started
a system of subsidising or
purchasing the right type of
bull for a certain group of
farms, put the bull under con-
trol of the departmental officer
who was dairy-expert for the
district, and made him respon-
sible for loaning the bull to
farmers as necessary.
In England, where artificial-
insemination stations have
been established, farmers have
no difficulty in following any
defined policy with their herd-
production programme.
Faulty Economics
It seems uneconomic for land
not to be put to its best use
and marginal cows not allowed
to rear calves, instead of being
slaughtered at a comparatively
young age. This has undoubt-
edly happened with many cows,
their owners taking advan-
tage of the market-value of
such cows to produce the pro-
cessed meat which has been
so profitable for export to the
U.S.A. That policy is bound
to lower the number of dairy-
cattle, which should be rising,
not falling, if it is to keep
step with our increasing
population.
These are the numbers of
bobby-calves slaughtered in
the last three years during the
months of peak-production:
1957. 1958. 1959.
August .. 157,098 173,664 179,651
September 131,015 165,337 181,083
Similar statistics can be
quoted to show the decrease
in the number of dry cows
within all States of the Com-
monwealth during the last three
years, and the decline in herd-
totals.
It would be difficult to assess
the effect any restriction on
slaughter of male or female
calves would have on the indus-
try, but it is evident that at
present there is a shortage of
all classes of dairy-cattle in all
districts. So it may be apposite
to recall that in Brazil, where
there are big dairying interests,
the penalty imposed during the
years 1930-35 on the slaughter
of female calves certainly
helped immediately to build-up
the herds.
Mechanisation and Cropping
Mechanisation is essential in
helping the industry forward,
though managers must be care-
ful not to over-capitalise.
Adequate cropping should be
encouraged everywhere, especi-
ally in marginal country, where
seasonal crops should be
grown and used for feed, and
where pasture - improvement
should be encouraged. Advice
can be made available through
extension-services, but field-
days should be introduced into
the dairying districts.
Recently an experienced
New Zealand critic said that,
in his opinion, Queensland
dairyfarmers do not work their
farms to anything like full
capacity, and that he thought
there was a lot to be learned
from New Zealand in farm-
management. He stressed par-
ticularly the importance of
seasonal calving, following the
N.Z. practice.
Labor
The drift of labor away from
the dairy-industry is one of
its biggest handicaps. The
working of a seven-day week
does not attract many young
people ; the work is unattrac-
tive to them both in environ-
ment and financially in com-
parison with other forms of
labor. Landowners with good-
type dairy-country find it more
profitable to raise vealers in
the way I have outlined than
to have to find a good share-
farmer to work a dairyfarm
and expend a fair amount of
capital on essential improve-
ments.
Summing-up
The method here expounded
could, I think, be applied with
advantage on many farms
throughout Australia. I have
not tried to apply it to any
particular district, but, because
our dairying and beef-produc-
ing industries are so important
to the national economy and
our potential land-development
is vast, I recommend that
research and investigation
should be carried out on the
lines suggested.
In this country we have cer-
tainly been backward in pro-
viding facilities within the
dairy-industry for improving
both herds and production,
without having to spend a lot
of capital on risky ventures.
Yet we know that the only
way to build-up our national
reserves is to concentrate on
primary exports. This can
most easily be done by helping
the farmer to become more and
more proficient.
Salting Baled Hay
“Shank”: D. F. C.' Weber,
of Pakenham (Vic.), has devel-
oped and patented a device—-
it’s not unlike the fertiliser-
hopper on a potato-planter, and
will fit any type of hay-baler—
which allows salt to be sprink-
led through each biscuit of hay
during baling.
The process has been used
around Pakenham these last
two seaons, and Weber's neigh-
bors swear by it. There’s no
doubt, either, that stock prefer
apparently poor hay with a
pinch of salt to good hay with-
out it.
Weber claims that if hay is
well salted it is possible to bale
at a stage when it would be
asking for trouble to try with-
out salting. His invention also
allows urea to be added to low-
protein hay during baling
without extra trouble of
expense.
Target-spot
“Myall”: Caused by a
fungus, spores of which remain
in the ground from season to
season, target-spot of tomatoes
may not be noticed in seedlings
(unless lesions show on the
leaves) until they wither and
die.
If affected seedlings are
transplanted in the ordinary
way stem-lesions will appear as
dry, shrunken patches and the
plants will be easily broken-off
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(26/11/’59)
Queensland should have moderate to good rains during
December, although falls may be light in the far-south-
western districts. Heavy rains and consequent flooding are
likely in the north-coastal and Peninsula areas, the north-
west and part of the south-west. Good wet-season rains
should be received in much of the State during 1960.
Moderate to good rains are indicated in N.S.W. during
December, with heaviest falls on the southern divisions.
Good general rains should be received during January,
with a period of patchy rainfall likely to follow until May.
Moderate to good rains should be received in Victoria
during December, although the Mallee and Wimmera will
probably have only light rain. Reasonably good rains are
indicated in January and February, then patchy until May.
In South Australia moderate rain is indicated in the
upper and lower north during December, with falls probably
poor elsewhere. Rain looks like being patchy and variable
during January and February.
Western Australia may have poor rainfall during
December, but good general rains are indicated in January.
LENNOX WALKER.


• Spraying.
• Dusting.
• Baiting.
• Seeding.
• Spreading.
• Surveying.
• Patrolling.
• Chartering.
# Supply-drops.
It's ALL in
AIRWORK
The Official Monthly
Journal of the nation’s
agricultural aviation
industry.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: Australia,
N.Z., Fiji and New Guinea,
28/-; British Commonwealth,
30/-; Other countries,
35/- (Post-free, annually).
PUBLISHERS: Geoff Taylor
Pty. Ltd., 473 King Street,
Melbourne. FY 3934.
by the wind, but if planted
deeply above the lesions the
seedlings will send out new
roots and grow into healthy,
normal plants.
Leaves, stems and fruit of
mature plants may be attacked.
Dark-brown spots, in dia-
meter, with yellow margins and
concentric rings—hence the
name —appear on leaves and
stems. Fruit is marked all over
its surface by oval or round
spots, black or dark-brown in
color ; but the fungus doesn’t
readily show in green fruit and
may not be noticed when the
fruit is picked and packed,
though it develops as the fruit
then ripens.
The best fungicides to use
against the disease are copper-
sprays and -dusts. Bordeaux
mixture, at the strength of
4-2-40, is good, and other
copper-sprays should be used
at the equivalent strength of
copper. Dusts should contain
at least 7 per cent, of copper ;
if weather-conditions favor the
spread of the disease the per-
centage should be increased to
10 per cent. When diseased
plants have finished cropping
pull them out and burn them,
and don’t use the same plot for
growing tomatoes again for at
least three years.
Wheat Competition
“Wimra”: In their wheat
competition this year Horsham
Agricultural Society, for the
first time in Victoria, introduced
farinograph and extensograph
tests, in addition to more usual
methods of judging, in an effort
to reach a true estimate of
protein, quality and dough-*
behavior of grain.
After preliminary tests,
examples of grain were gristed
in a Murray Bridge (S.A.) mill.
The flour was then tested, made
into loaves and baked by a
Horsham baker. So the grain,
its rating-chart and the loaf it
made could be exhibited side
by side.
This novel competition was
one of the most popular and
interesting features of the 1959
Show. It brought-out some
strange reversals of form.
Wheat that had been awarded
first-prize at this year’s Mel-
bourne Royal as a bread-
baking (hard) wheat passed
Horsham’s more stringent tests
and again won a first —but in
the biscuit (soft wheat) section
this time!
A fine sample of the old-
timer Free Gallipoli, which on
appearance and weight—it
went 67ylb. to the bushel —
and by Pelshenke test would
have won second-prize, when
tested by farinograph and
extensograph was graded thirty-
first out of the 31 entries!
Dingo Crosses
“Canis”: The question is:
Do dingoes cross? Councillors
of three Queensland local-
authorities—Stanthorpe Town
Council and the Monto and
Flinders Shires —say they do,
and one grazier-member
declares that evidence is avail-
able of Alsatians breeding with
“You didn't say how you liked my ant-hill hair-style."
dingoes and causing heavy
losses to stock. Dog-owners
say this is not so.
Queensland University Veter-
inary School was noncommittal
and passed the buck to the
Agricultural Department,
which said there is no reason
why dingoes should not breed
with Alsatians. In consequence
the councils have banned the
keeping of Alsatians, unless
sterilised, within their bound-
aries.
David Fleay, of West Bur-
leigh, on the Gold Coast, who
has kept and bred dingoes for
25 years and observed them in
South Australia, Victoria,
N.S.W. and Queensland, asserts
that Alsatians, cattledogs and
kelpies will intermix with
female dingoes and that inter-
breeding has eliminated pure
dingoes from settled areas. The
crosses, he says, usually have
the dingo’s characteristically
pricked ears, white feet and
chest-patches, but lack the
broad head, narrow chest and
short, evenly bushed tail. The
crossbred is a true dog, and,
not being domesticated, breeds
only once a year, producing
litters of four or five pups,
though crossbred bitches have
been known to have much
larger litters.
In an effort to destroy din-
goes which were ravaging his
flocks, James Tyson imported
a number of Russian wolf-
hounds and tried to hunt them.
Some of these hounds went
bush and in due course huge
wild dogs, up to 6ft. in length
and fearing nothing, made
their appearance and would
even attack a man if he was
alone. Benjamin Boyd, of
Twofold Bay (N.S.W.), impor-
ted several Newfoundland dogs
for his whaling-station, and in
a few years the district was
infested with large crossbreds
that took a heavy toll of the
sheep.
Many people contend that
dingoes will kill all domestic
dogs on sight and so prevent
any interbreeding. This may
be so as far as small dogs are
concerned, but the larger
breeds, especially those men-
tioned, are similar in size and
appearance to dingoes and are
readily accepted in the packs.
A large number of graziers
in Victoria, especially in the
north-eastern corner of the
State, have lately reported their
conviction that dingoes and
domestic dogs do interbreed.
There seems little doubt that
this crossing is quite common
and that the crossbred is more
dangerous than the purebred
dingo.
Crosscuts
“Buff Poke”: Last word in
automatic buffalo-fly pest-
exterminators—imported from
the U.S. by Queensland
Stations Pty., Ltd. —is a gadget
comprising a long cylindrical
barrel about 4in. in diameter
filled with insecticide and
operated between two posts
attached to a canvas about
18in. long. As the cattle go
through and hit the canvas
they get a shower of insecticide
from the automatic back-
scratcher.
Mudgee (N.S.W.) Legacy
Fleece Show awards: Rural
Bank Trophy (most successful
exhibitor), Triggs Pastoral
Estates, Mudgee, and Merri
Merrigal Pty., Ltd., • Lake
Cargellico ; Western Assurance
Trophy (most successful
exhibitor in open division),
A. S. Kingham, Cassilis ;
Dangar Gedye Trophy (two
most valuable commercial
fleeces), Tongy Pty., Ltd.,
Cassilis ; Champion fleece of
Show: Mrs. Mary E. Price,
Pyramul.
Farm Hint
“Tabba”: “D un e” (B.
21 /10/’59) says that rubbish
can be dislodged from the
radiator-core by means of a
strong jet of water and plenty
of patience. Less patience is
needed if a strong jet of air is
used. Water wets the seeds and
grass-stems, which then swell
and become hard to dislodge.


Now in Book-form
"Duke" Tritton's
“TIME MEANS TUCKER”
4 'V..V
(X
Wl
/A
i,
,r. i
i&t
a:
This factual account of a shearer-drover’s experiences
in the sheds and on the track has proved to be one of
the most popular serials ever printed in “The Bulletin.”
Reader-demand for the story in book-form has been
constant.
It’s now off the press—and the price has been kept
down to 10s. a copy, post free.
This first edition (a large one, to satisfy the expected
demand from readers who recognise the book’s value as
a Christmas gift) is available only from “The Bulletin.”
PLEASE USE COUPON BELOW.
Available also over-the-counter from branch offices in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
ORDER FORM
Book Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please post copy/copies of
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"
by H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
NAME....
ADDRESS
Price per copy, 10s.
(Post free)
STATE
Amount enclosed
Balsillie fitted nicely into the
cast.
Fisher told Balsillie ' that
there seemed to be a well-
grounded fear in Australia
that any system likely to be
installed by the Government
would lead to litigation for
infringement of existing world-
wide patents. Balsillie held
to his view that his system
would stand the test of law,
but he admitted that it might
involve heavy legal expenses
far beyond his resources. With
Government backing, however,
the position would be different.
Renowned for his cautious,
temperament, Fisher did not
act in a hurry. He set a quiet
investigation going, and in the
end decided to take the risk.
Balsillie was appointed Com-
monwealth Radio Telegraphy
Consulting Engineer.
As events proved, Balsillie's
fear that the Marconi Com-
pany would attack his system
was well-founded. In 1912 the
company took out a High
Court writ alleging infringe-
ment, but the company ulti-
mately abandoned the action.
The following year Amal-
gamated Wireless (Australia),
Ltd., was incorporated to
enable the business of the
Marconi Wireless Telegraph
Company in Australia, New
Zealand and portions of the
Pacific and Indian Oceans to
be acquired by the Govern-
ment as a going concern. The
Commonwealth Government
paid the company £5OOO for
equipment supplied.
All legal difficulties having
been overcome, Balsillie went
on with his work, and Aus-
tralia was looked upon as
having one of the most
efficient wireless-systems in the
world.
T had got to know Balsillie
very well in the years that
followed his wireless-telegraphy
work. He had the reputation
in technical circles of being
one of the comparatively small
group of versatile scientists
capable of grappling success-
fully with seemingly unrelated
problems.
Thus we find Balsillie break-
ing new ground in .the difficult
task of rain-stimulation. He
also did some submarine
sound-transmission work for
the Federal Government dur-
ing the war, but this was very
hush-hush. In some other
projects I played a small part.
It was in 1915 that he told
me he had been working for
some years on the rain-
precipitation project, and had
studied all the scientific data
available. Discussing the prob-
lem one day with W. A.
Holman, Premier of N.S.W.,
he found an enthusiastic co-
operator. Holman listened
intently to his theories, and
at once decided to appoint a
committee of scientists under
Professor W. E. David, of the
Sydney University, to consider
the question. The committee
reported that it was not pre-
pared to say that Balsillie’s
formula had solved the prob-
lem, but it recommended that
field-trials should be under-
taken.
When the East-West railway
v/as being constructed by the
Commonwealth Government in
the first decade water-supply
had been an acute problem.
Several dams had been
excavated in what were
regarded as the best catchment-
areas, but rainfall was so
scarce that they were seldom
equal to the requirements of
the steam-engines of those
days.
That was the position when
Balsillie decided to place his
proposition before the Fisher
Administration then in office,
and it was decided that experi-
ments should be carried out.
In September, 1915, the
Minister for Home Affairs,
W. O. Archibald, authorised
the purchase of a “Balsillie
Rain Stimulation and Procura-
tion Plant,” to be established
at Bookaloo; but, owing to
difficulties in securing many
items on the schedule, it was
not until. eight months later
that the experiments com-
menced.
Bookaloo is a comparatively
unknown place about 54 miles
nor’-west of Port Augusta,
and 259 miles north of
Adelaide. It is on the edge
of the saltbush and blue-
bush country. There are no
big trees, but myall- and mulga-
scrub abound. It is close to
the centre of huge sheep-runs
extending over thousands of
square-miles. The average
rainfall is under 6 inches. That
such an arid stretch of country
should have been selected by
Balsillie was a tribute to his
confidence in the applicability
of his theories.
When he told me —and very
privately, too —that everything
was ready for the great experi-
ment I couldn’t resist asking to
(Continued on page 64)


A Page of Verse ...
SUBURBAN SONG
Now all the dogs with folded paws
Stare at the lowering sky.
This is the hour when women hear
Their lives go ticking by.
The baker’s horse with rattling hooves
Upon the windy hill
Mocks the thunder in the heart
Of women sitting still.
The poppies in the garden turn
Their faces to the sand
And tears upon the sewing fall
And on the stranger’s hand.
Flap flap the washing flies
To meet the starting hail.
Close the door on love and hang
The key upon the nail.
N.S.W.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL.
AUBADES
Now the sleeping blinds will rise
on a thousand lovers’ eyes.
Through the window of the heart,
wowsers now will watch them part.
Breakfast is their nagging tooth,
morning daylight’s stab at truth.
Afternoon’s a slow disease.
Night permits hypocrisies.
Twilight is a kind of grief,
the ache before the dawn’s relief.
Dark of night is dawn in fact;
lovers then resume the act.
Night is living’s great pretence ;
wowsers watch in innocence,
sure that sex and talk and drink
is exactly how they think,
not believing lovers have
found a sin more strange than love,
not imagining a hand
reaching out —to understand,
not believing there could be
end to day’s iniquity :
after all its hope of sense
love can find indifference.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
CHILD AND WREN
The blue wren sings his frail
Song and a child plays.
“For ever and ever,” sings the wren
Though we may not return again,
For time is like a scorpion’s tail,
To these unnumbered days.
The growing child says “l”
And pulls the garden flowers.
“Though time has pincers at his back
1 am the mystery l seek
And l will clutch the colored hours
Although the garden die.”
The wren has had his word,
The child his bitter cry,
The scorpion doubles back to sting,
Yet in the centre of that ring
Stand child and flower and singing
bird
As in a tempest's eye.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
YARRANGOBILLY
How. can a little bird with a brain
like a feather
Provide against so many dire emer-
gencies ?
For snake and fox, yes, butcherbird
and weather
Both fire and flood, but not for these
great savages
Who stumbling down the limestone
gorge discover
Those three pink eggs that match the
teatree blossom,
That cup of lichen trembling over
the river,
Looped on the twig there like a wisp
of flotsam.
But chirp in peace you small green
honcyeater
Who hung your nest so cunningly
over li e water ;
We’ll do no more than brood with
you upon it
Till we have hatched those eggs out
in a sonnet
That catches in its music, soft or
shrilly,
Something of bird-song, something
of Yarrangobilly.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
THREE ODES FROM HORACE
Book I Ode 23
“Vitas hinnuleo me similis, Chloe”
You shun me, Chloe, like a fawn
That seeks in trackless hills her dam,
And hears the rustling woods at dawn
In vague alarm.
For spring is dancing in the leaves,
The lizard brushes through the brake;
And wildly now the heart behaves,
And the knees quake.
But 1 pursue you mot for prey :
No savage tiger do I rove.
Then cease to go your mother s way
Now you are ripe for love.
Book II Ode 7
“O saepe mecum tempus in ultimum”
Once, on the perilous field
When Brutus led the fray, did you and I
Make war together. Now at last you
come
To your own gods, and the Italian sky.
Pompey, first of my friends,
How often have we spurred the lagging
hours
With wine; anointed both with Syrian
balm,
And crowned with flowers.
With you at Philippi
In headlong flight I cast my shield away
When courage died, and on the stricken
field '
The dead uncounted lay.
But l by Mercury
Was wafted trembling from the foeman’s
side.
The wave of war returned you to the
fight
On its tumultuous tide.
Now render unto Jove
The feast you owe : under my laurel lay
The limbs wearied with war, and broach
the cask
Designed for such a day,
And, Varus, let us drink.
Fill high the goblets with oblivious wine,
Pour forth the perfume from capacious
shells,
And myrtle leaves entwine.
Who now will Venus choose
As master of our revels? I’ll become
Mad, and find madness pleasure, now
my friend
Has turned his footsteps home.
Book II Ode 11
“Quid bellicosus Cantaber et Scythes ”
What seeds of war the fierce Cantabrian
sows,
Or Scythian beyond the Adrian Sea,
Forbear to ask, Hirpinus: neither fret
And ponder endlessly
Provision for a life whose wants are few.
Unwrinkled youth and grace will slip
away,
And playful love and easy sleep come not
To one whose head is grey. ■
The transient Spring begets no fadeless
flowers,
Nor shines the mellow moon with
changeless face.
Seek not with harassed and unsuited
mihd
Eternal schemes to trace ;
But rather, underneath a lofty pine
Or in the plane-tree s shade, stretched at,
our ease,
Our greying hair oiled with Assyrian
balm
And fragrant as the rose,
Drink while we may. For Evius melts
the cares
That would consume us; and a boy will
run
And temper in the passing brook our
cups
Of fierce Falernian.
Who will entice shy Lydia from her
home ?
Bid her with ivory lute to hasten here,
Her tresses plaited in the pleasant knot
The girls of Sparta wear.
A.C.T.
ALAN McNICOLL.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O'SULLIVAN
PTY . LTD A
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFA CTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Anything written by or about
Victor J. Daley.—69o4.
Poetical Works of Robert Burns
(vol. 2), ed. William Patterson.—
6907.
Information Sought
How many towaway-trucks and
parking-meters are in use in
Sydney ?
The Annual Report of the Police
Department of N.S.W. (1958) states
that approximately 14| miles of
streets in the central city area, as
well as some of the main routes
leading into and out of the city,
have been embraced in the tow-
away area from which vehicles
illegally parked may be removed
by police. In these streets sections
have been allocated as loading-
zones, bus-stops, taxicab-ranks,
meter-parking areas and “No
Standing” areas. During 1958 a
third tow-truck was taken into use
in patrolling the city streets; a total
of 7923 illegally-parked vehicles
were removed from the streets and
taken to the impounding-centre.
In 1958 there were 1002 parking-
meters installed in the city streets
to provide for the parking of motor-
vehicles for periods of variously
30min., one hour, two hours and
four hours.
* * * *
(1) Amount of money borrowed
to build N.S.W. Railways ? (2)
Where were the loans raised ? (3)
Rates of interest ? (4) Has any of
the principal been repaid ?
(From the N.S.W. Department of
Railways): (1) and (4) At June 30,
1959, capital provided for the con-
struction of railways and acquisition
of the equipment and rolling-stock
necessary for their operation
amounted to about £3OO million.
About £295 million came from
loans, the balance from railway and
consolidated revenue. Of the
amount of £3OO million provided,
about £25 million has been repaid
“I know you've got your job to do, but can't
you hurry up?"
by the purchase and cancellation of
securities by the National Debt
Sinking Fund. This sinking-fund
derives its income from contribu-
tions by the Commonwealth and
States. (2) Until 1930 most of the
loans were raised on the London
market, but between 1930 and
1955-56 no further loans were
raised overseas, although existing
loans were renewed. At June 30,
1958, 85 p.c. of the public debt
of N.S.W. was domiciled in Aus-
tralia. (3) Loans are not raised by
the Railways Department, but are
arranged by the Commonwealth
Government. State allocations are
determined by the Loan Council
and are then apportioned by each
State among its various depart-
ments. Interest is paid by the
Treasury and charged to the depart-
ments concerned at the average
rate paid on all loans during the
year. This rate fluctuates con-
siderably from time to time, and
recently it has tended to increase
steadily each year. For the year
ended June 30, 1959, average rate
of interest paid was 4.14 p.c. In
addition to interest charges, depart-
ments are called upon to pay a
proportion of exchange on interest
remitted overseas, loan-flotation
expenses and loan-management
expenses.
* * * *
How does the Copyright Act
cover films ? For how long may a
film be copyright ?
“Film” is defined by the Act
(Section 13, 10), and includes the
sounds embodied in any sound-
track associated with the film.
Copyright subsists in every film
of which the maker was a qualified
person for the whole, or a sub-
stantial part, of the period during
which the film was made, or which
is first published in the U.K. The
“maker” of a film is defined as
the person by whom the arrange-
ments necessary for the making of
the film are undertaken, and he is
entitled to the copyright in the
film. Film-copyright subsists, if
the film is registrable under Part 3
of the Cinematograph Films Act,
1938, until registration, and there-
after until 50 years from the end
of the calendar-year in which it is
so registered.
Brief Answers
H. 5.8.: Write to the Public
Library, Macquarie Street, Sydney.
. ...J.N.: Yes; the peanut-crop is
useful in maintaining the fertility
of the soil. Peanuts will not stand
frost. Abundant sunshine, con-
sistent moderately high temperatures
and a well-distributed but not
excessive rainfall provide conditions
favorable to their growth. Gener-
ally speaking, the peanut thrives
in districts suited to the late
varieties of maize... .J.G. and
others: Thank you for sending
in information about “Lasca”....
E.8.R.: The best thing to do would
be to get hold of a copy of the
Writers and Artists’ Year Book
(pub. A. and C. Black, Ltd., and
available leading bookstores). It
has a full list of London publishers
of plays... .D.N.E.: Land en-
riched with farmyard manure
grows the best melons. Don’t
grow them on the same land in
two successive years. In North
Queensland, begin planting seed
during July—in cool localities
August and September are the best
months. It’s usually hard to get
the plants through the ground
during winter. Some planters raise
early seedlings in seedboxes set
in a warm place, then transplant
them into the open ground. Sow
the seed in rows 4£ft. apart, 2ft.
between seeds or in hills 6ft. apart
Allow 21b. of seed to the acre.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
Blinks necessary.
D.V.: You’ve made your mirage
too fairy-like... .H.E.H.: Senti-
mental. Read some modern Aus-
tralian poetry if you want to write.
D.8.W.: They’re tf bit rough, but
if you took more pains with them
it’s possible you’d write a publish-
able ballad. Send jn one at a
time... .L.D.D.: The last two lines
of “Autumn Morning” suggest
that you might be able to write.
Read; observe; and use this
century’s language... .S.L.F.: A
touch of freshness there....
M.W.8.: Keep it compact 1
M.T.: Verse laborious. If you’re
going in for bird-watching try it
in prose W.P.: Come in and
sing, then:
We fly over the Great Divide,
Mountains gorgeous, falls and rivers,
Taking them all in our stride,
Not anything gave us the shivers,
I know it’s Australia for me.
. ...J.O’L.: The less said about
sirens the better... .V.F.: Both
lightweights... .8.N.E.: The topi-
cal poems are the most interesting
because they’re about something
definite; but it’s hard to get the
full truth of a topical event
G.P.: The end’s all right, but the
poem as a whole is more curious
than convincing G.L.P.: An
interesting story —the poem less so,
....8.J.: Come in and sound a
piece of your
“COO-EE”
The station was taut with the tension
awaiting for news to arrive
Three days the poor kid had been
missing. I wonder if lie’s still
alive . . .
A tracker had found him unconscious
and propped him up by a log,
Then blackfella style he was tieated by
squeezing the dew from a frog, %
The life that was nearly extinguished
fought slowly to come to the fore
As through lips so blistered and swollen
he wearily whispered for more . . •
And so as this drama concluded with
praise for the act of a black
Let no one derate them of talents that
many a white man does lack
No more could he do for the victim.
The rest his own people could do
Sufficient he’d done them a service
through bushcraft that only he
knew
Contented his job was completed he
climbed to the limb of a tree
And called to men that were searching
the call of the bush, COO-EE 1


THE HOLLIDAYS
“Would you mind jumping in the air and screaming out ‘ Eureka! I’ve found it at last'?"
New Recordings
A CHORAL CHRISTMAS
A s Christmas approaches
church-choirs up and down
the countryside are preparing,
with varying degrees of musical
success, Christmas - carols,
special Christmas-music and
perhaps “Messiah” as well.
A new Argo record demon-
strates the superiority of a
trained English cathedral-choir,
and gives us, incidentally, a
wealth of Christmas-music
from the 1600’s. The disk is
titled Music for the Feast of
Christmas (RG 148), and the
feast is served by the choristers
of Ely Cathedral, the Renais-
sance Singers, two solo
sopranos, John Whitworth
(counter-tenor) and Arthur
Wills (organ). Michael Howard
is the director.
Generally speaking, the period
1550-1650 was a fruitful time
in the history of church-music
composition. Italy and Eng-
land were just moving out of
the golden age of unaccom-
panied choral-music into the
exploitation of dramatic music
—opera, oratorio, etc., with
new harmonic resources. This
100-year period produced such
masters as Palestrina, Monte-
verdi, Byrd, Bull, Gibbons and,
right on the fringe, Purcell.
After the anthem settled down
to its new form, English church-
music suffered a drab century
or so: certain Boyce, Greene
and Dupuis works show that
the swing from purely vocal
harmony to vocal-instrumental
writing had rather got out of
hand.
The record opens with a
setting by 16th-century Caustun
of “Rejoice in the Lord Alway,”
and anyone who has heard
Purcell’s setting of the words
can compare the radical differ-
ences between an age almost
wholly concerned with the voice
as a musical instrument and
an age where voice and instru-
mental support were regarded
as compatible. This Caustun
piece is an economical and
flowing piece of writing, here
initiated by counter-tenor.
Next there is the fine
Gibbons anthem “This is the
Record of John,” which starts
with a tenor solo underlined
by a fluty organ-part, then a
burst of four-part harmony,
then another solo verse. One
would be inclined to say the
following piece, John Amner's
“O Ye Little Flock,” leaves
the Gibbons for dead in sheer
skill of writing, particularly in
the scoring for solo voices:
the dialogues for two solo
sopranos, for example, written
virtually in canon, and the fine
rousing alleluias at the end.
But far and away the most
arresting thing on this side is
Messiaen’s brilliant organ-piece
“Les Anges.” A daring thing
to do, dropping a contem-
porary French composer into
the company of strict harmon-
ists! This tends to make his
impression of heavenly hosts
even more vivid. With a punch-
ing tempo, the whole thing is
rich in a swirling, rushing kind
of nervousness ; just before the
end a strident bell-figure
emerges, and a sudden soften-
ing of volume ushers-in the
final notes.
The second side opens with
Sweelinck’s “Flodie Christus,”
which, apart from a pleasant
bustling spirit, is a fabulous bit
of harmony, cast in the fugal
style—not nearly as developed
as Bach’s writing, but well on
the way, most noticeably in the
tonal rise of the basses and
the bell-effect, later on, of
voices tumbling and overlapp-
ing from part to part.
From Germany back to Eng-
land for Byrd’s “An Earthly
Tree, a Heavenly Fruit.” The
organ, silent in the Sweelinck,
reappears ; and the melody—
one of those inoto perpetuo
tunes which cannot be logi-
cally dissected, but must be
thought of as a whole—is taken
by sopranos. The harmony
sounds as if a modern editor
has revised it, for there is little,
if any, of the harmonic bare-
ness one is so prone to associ-
ate with Byrd. There is a hint
of stridency in the third
appearance of this lovely
melody, or maybe the choris-
ters are just concentrating on
rolling the “r” sounds.
‘"Resoriet in Laudibus,” by
lacob Handl (1550-1591), is
sung unaccompanied by the
Renaissance Singers one
seems to know this melody as
a present-day carol, although in
grossly boiled-down form. “Eya
Martyr Stephene” (composer
unknown) has a little recitative
interrupted every so often by
a full chorus. This recitative
sounds a bit like a figured-bass
which a harmony-student has
neglected ro work. It ends on
a unison note.
T. L. de Victoria is repre-
sented by another of his care-
fully constructed and interest-
ing bits of harmony (note the
periodic flutter of quick notes
in inner parts—a favorite
device). This is “O Quam
Gloriosum Est.” “Vox in
Rama,” to plainsong mode VII,
is sung by the choristers alone
in suitably muscular, sustained
fashion ; then the men, not to
be outshone, contribute
“Salvete Flores Martyrum,”
and the medieval flavor of the
music is enhanced by a faux-
bourdon written by Dufay.
Finally the choristers alone
sing that magnificent song “The
Coventry Carol,” which fortun-
ately has been included in the
Shaw-Dearmer Oxford Book of
Carols, thus making it avail-
able to a wide audience. This
is probably pretty much the
way it sounded in some 16th-
century cathedral —no accom-
paniment, the voices rising and
falling like long shafts of light.
It is beautifully sung, and so is
all the music on this record.
ADRIAN WINTLE.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The Governor of Victoria and Lady
Brooks gave a small family dinner-party
last Thursday to celebrate their 35th
wedding-anniversary, not to mention
their 10 happy years at Government
House. They were married in Knights-
bridge, London, in 1924.
☆☆ ☆ 1
The Christmas Tree Festival in the
Myer Mural Hall Annexe, organised by
Mrs. Graeme Orr to aid Y.W.C.A. and
officially opened by Lady Brooks, is an
exposition of how unusually and charm-
ingly trees can be decorated. Mrs.
Henry Bolte, wife of the Premier, had
her small tree of cellophane standing
in a small white-reindeer-drawn red cart
filled with tiny wrapped presents and
with Santa Claus in the midst of them.
From the William Angliss Food School
came a fir-tree made of toffee, green
and transparent, with a large red toffee-
star topping it and tiny baubles hanging
from the branches. Mrs. Robin Byrne
and the South Yarra auxiliary “Y.”
chose traditional Christmas-trees. Mrs.
Lindsay Plant’s tiny tree was made
entirely of white paper-doyleys. Of
white tulle, Mrs. Maurice Nathan’s tree
was hung with pink, blue and silver
baubles.
Mrs. L. Greening chose an Australian
theme for her tree—silver-painted gum-
nuts, gum-leaves and tiny pine-cones.
The old English carol “The Twelve
Days of Christmas” was illustrated on
the tree decorated by Mrs. Wainwright
Grocke. There were other trees dressed
in traditional European styles, such as
the Finnish one hung with gingerbread-
men and apples, and a Swiss tree carry-
ing white paper-angels. The Canadian
Club dressed a mantelpiece from which
hung red stockings filled with Christmas-
gifts. A beautiful gold star was entered
by Mrs. Angus Jones. Fred Asmussen
used gold-painted ivy-leaves, clusters of
gold-bells and electrically-lit stars for his
tree, while Barty Mei used a large red
cone hung with gold tassels. The festival
is open until December 23 and visitors
may vote for their choice.
☆ ☆ ☆
English visitors Sir Norman and Lady
Kipping were guests-of-honor at a recep-
tion given by the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Bernard Evans)
at the Town Hall, other special guests
being State Labor Minister Reid and
Mrs. Alec Fraser, wife of the Acting
Minister for Transport. A printed-silk
frock and jacket in tones of deep-blue,
brown and pink was worn by Mrs.
Evans with her folded cap of deep-pink
jersey. Lady Kipping’s choice was a
white net - frock re - embroidered in
a cinnamon - brown lace - pattern and
mounted on white satin; her wide-
brimmed white straw hat was swathed
with golden-brown tulle. Beneath her
tent-coat of cognac-brown silk-taffeta
Mrs. Fraser wore a brown-and-white
coin - spotted silk frock; her high-
crowned cloche was of straw and gros-
grain in tones of brown, beige and white.
Lady Teasdale wore with her silk suit,
patterned in moss-green and white, a cap
of pastel-toned petals. Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson teamed a beech-brown wool
frock and a tangerine, beige and grey
swathed cloche. Lady Knox’s ensemble
was of white-and-black patterned silk,
and her high-crowned hat matched it.
Patsy Hemingway began her stage-
career with the Genesia amateur com-
pany, after which she appeared in
“Free as the Air” at the Princess,
in which she took-over Barbara
Robinson’s role at short notice. Then on
to “My Fair Lady,” in which, as under-
study, she stepped temporarily into the
shoes of Eliza Dolittle when Bunty
Turner went down with the ’flu. Re-
turned from a trip overseas, she is at
present playing Lady Larken in the new
musical, “Once Upon A Mattress,” at
the Princess. Photo by Gordon De Lisle.
Popped-in to the Housewives’ Associa-
tion rooms in Collins Street for a party
attended by 200 women, mostly repre-
sentatives of the association’s many
branches. The Lady Mayoress cut the
large, white-iced Christmas-cake and
presented a travelling-clock to Mrs. C.
Ulbrick, a member for many years who
leaves shortly to make her home in
Adelaide. Among official guests were
Lady Harrison Moore, a patroness of
the association; Mrs. H. Maudsley,
president of the Traveller’s Aid Society ;
the president of the National Council
of Women, Mrs. Whitney King; and
Mr. R. T. Taylor, of the Austin Hospital
Board, who received a cheque for £l5O
on behalf of the hospital from the
Housewives’ president, Mrs. Gladys
Hain.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a choral service when
Barbara Mary, eldest daughter of Mrs.
N. Linton, of Malvern, and the late Mr.
D. H. Challingsworth, of Sydney, was
married to Glynne Eric, second son of
Mr. and Mrs. G. T. Permezel, of East
Malvern, at St. George's Church, Mal-
vern, which was decorated with white
flowers and silver leaves. Barbara wore
a gown of white delustred-satin with
short-sleeves, a V-neckline and a cluster
of white-satin roses at the back of the
waist. White-satin roses also held the
elbow-length tulle-veil, and she carried
white roses. In attendance were the
bride’s sister, Lindy Challingsworth, Mrs.
John Howcroft and Helen Robbins.
Their short frocks were of aqua-blue
delustred-satin, the skirts featuring a
slight bustle-effect and a floating panel.
In their hair were fascinators of aqua-
blue veiling, and they carried white
carnations. John Permezel was best man,
and groomsmen were Bill Wakefield and
David Turnbull. Reception was at No.
9 Darling Street. Mrs. Linton wore
a gown of gold satin-brocade. She was
assisted in receiving the 100 guests by
Mr. and Mrs. Permezel, the latter wear-
ing a gown and short jacket of silver-
blue lame.
☆ ☆ ☆
The novel cover chosen for the
International Stakes Day racebook
at Flemington featured the national-
flower of the country from which
each jockey came. Prior to the
first race the chairman of the
M.R.C. (which sponsored the meet-
ing), Mr. T. S. Carlyon, and Mrs.
Carlyon entertained at a large buffet-
luncheon in the members’ dining-room.
The hostess wore a suit of natural silk-
shantung and a cloche of white curled
feathers. Among the guests were Mrs.
G. H. Davey, Mrs. Sam Wells, Mrs.
A. G. Silk, Mrs. John Reilly, Sir Norman
and Lady Robinson, Mr. and Mrs. Ross
Grey Smith, Cr. and Mrs. Maurice
Nathan, Mr. and Mrs. John Carrodus,
the Chinese Consul and Mrs. Leung,
Thai Consul H. I. Fader and Mrs. Fader,
Japanese Consul Mr. Nomoto and his
wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
For the luncheon-party she gave at
her Brighton Beach home Mrs. Gray
Staley wore a junior - navy - blue silk-
shantung frock. She was assisted by her
daughter, Mrs. Brian Boston. Among
those who attended were Lady Wackett,
Mrs. H. Silk and her daughter Mrs.
Hudson Ralph, Mrs. John Heath and
her daughter Mrs. Graeme Laws, Mrs.
Saul Aarons and her daughter-in-law
Mrs. Noel Aarons, Mrs. Charles Disney,
Mrs. R. Young, Mrs. Norman Spry, Mrs.
Margaret Saker and Mrs. George Haines.


SYDNEY
Glittering social function of the week
was the world film-premiere of
“Summer of the 17th Doll” at the
Century Theatre, with proceeds aiding
Legacy and the Elizabethan Theatre-
Trust. TV-cameras whirred and dazzling
arc-lights focused on arriving patrons,
dressed in their elegant best for the
occasion. Large crowds on each side
of the street outside the theatre, held
back by mounted policemen, gave the
effect of a Royal-tour function. The
Governor, Sir Eric Woodward, and Lady
Woodward were guests-of-honor. Lady
Woodward wore a charming evening-
dress of blue and silver silk. President
of Torchbearers for Legacy Mrs. Lionel
McFadyen was in pearl-grey draped
chiffon, on which the collar was jewelled.
Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Hunt and Miss
Elsie Beyer represented the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust. Helping to welcome the
guests were Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Turn-
bull, with their son and daughter-in-law,
Mr. and Mrs. Dale Turnbull. Among
the younger theatregoers was Carolyn
Power, who looked dainty in a full-
skirted evening-dress of pale-lilac hail-
spot-nylon. She was with Mrs. H. Odillo
Maher and her son, Tim.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Christmas Musicale arranged by
Miss Margaret Gillespie and other
members of the Ladies’ Committee of
the Opera House Appeal Fund gave one
of the finest musical treats of the week.
Operatic arias were sung, and in a colorful
pageant the folksongs and carols of
various countries were featured, as
singers took the audience on a “Journey
Round the World at Christmas.” Guests-
of-honor were Mrs. Heffron, wife of
the Premier, and the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Jensen, who were welcomed by
committee-president Mrs. Marcel Deky-
vere. White Christmas-lilies and vivid
red gladioli decorated the stage. They
had been charmingly arranged by a
group of members of the Country
Women’s Association. There was a
general air of festival, aided by the lovely
summer dresses of the audience and by
the national costumes of the singers.
Eye-catching was the beige pure-silk
dress worn by Mrs. Dekyvere. It had
a very slim skirt, and a knee-length
tunic, and was worn with a hat of
matching color. Lady Davidson was
there, also Mrs. Bruce Macfarlan (her
stunning dress was of bitter-sweet pink
silk, and pink roses were worn at the
front of its wide-collared bodice), Mrs.
Mac Turnbull, Mrs. Gordon Henty, Mrs.
Scorer, and Mrs. Ross McKenzie (doing
a good job helping “behind scenes”).
☆ ☆ ☆
Talking of music reminds one of
Australian Music Week, which takes
place from December 13 to December
19, when the works of young Australian
composers and songwriters will be fea-
tured. Of special interest are the series
of free lunch-time concerts at Paling’s
concert-hall at 1-o’clock on December 15,
16 and 17. The committee has Sir
Bernard Heinze as chairman, and its
aims are to encourage musical talent in
Australia and promote more appreciation
of our own artists.
Miss Mildred Harris always takes her
harp to the party; there would be much
disappointment among fellow-guests if
she didn’t. In fact, she has never been
parted from her harp since she was a
small girl and played it in a musical act
with her parents and their other three
children. The Harris Family was brought
to Australia under contract with Sir Ben
Fuller when Mildred was a girl; her
father liked the place too much to leave
it. With her sister, she went on
tour in India; they met their respective
husbands in that country, and there-
upon their act was disbanded. Since
then the harp and its owner have
appeared in most of the. world’s cities .
Although officially retired, Miss Harris
often takes-over when an orchestra id
short of a musician. In addition to the
harp, she is an accomplished performer
on the piano, trumpet and accordion.
In private life Mrs. Alex Ottignon, she
has two grown-up sons. Photo by
Norton Trevaire.
Gratifying was the cheque for £3OOO
handed over to the Royal N.S.W. Insti-
tution for Deaf and Blind Children by
Mrs. Bill White, president of the Social
Committee, and representing its annual
effort. The presentation was made at
the luncheon given for the committee
by Mr. H. A. Curl, at the Australia.
Guests included Mrs. Alex Slutzkin, Mrs.
Ron McDonald, Mrs. Alan Graham,
Mrs. P. Peacock-Smith and Sir Leighton
Bracegirdle.
☆ ☆ ☆
Being married on Saturday (Decem-
ber 12) to Lachlan (“Lachie”) Shaw at
Knightsbridge (London) Presbyterian
Church, Jennifer McLachlan is a
pharmacy graduate from Hunter’s Hill
who has been having a working-holiday
in Europe. Lachie is a journalist with
the A.8.C., and was formerly N.S.W.
Parliamentary roundsman. He is the son
of the late Charles Shaw, of The
Bulletin, who was author of Heaven
Knows Mr. Allison, and of Mrs. Shaw,
of Chatswood. Lachie and wife aim to
be at the Olympic Games in Rome
next year and to return home by
Christmas, 1960.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Hawaiian Luau,” (which is another
name for fun-’n’-games), is the title of
the party organised by the Black and
White Committee of the Royal Blind
Society of N.S.W., to be held at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. David Klippel
at Wahroonga next Saturday (December
12). Unusual note gives dress as either
Hawaiian or Palm Beach. A mannequin-
parade been arranged by Frank
Mitchell and. an art - show by Tom
Gleghorn, and from 7 p.m. until mid-
night all should be merry and bright.
Entire proceeds will go to the Royal
Blind Society; the wines have been
donated by Thomas Hardy and Sons.
Headed by president Mrs. Marcel Deky-
vere and vice-presidents Mrs. Neville
Manning and Mrs. Richard Allen, those
organising it include Mrs. Bill Adams,
Mrs. David Klippel, Mrs. Doug Perkins,
Mrs. Bill Kendall, Mrs. Sylvia Quist,
Mrs. Bob Stephens, Mrs. Bob Swift and
Mrs. John Trenerry.
☆ ☆ ☆
A home in Wodonga (Vic.) for Sgt.
and Mrs. Peter Wooden will give their
many Sydney friends good excuse for
making visits over the border —in the
right months of the year, of course. The
young couple had a full military wedding
with a guard-of-honor at St. James’s
Presbyterian Church, Burwood. The
bride was formerly Yvonne Bennett, only
daughter of Major and Mrs. W. F.
Bennett, of Bandiana, and her husband
is the youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. H.
Wooden, of Croydon Park. Best man
was Sgt. Don Burns, of Puckapunyal.
The bride wore a full-length white angel-
skin dress which had fullness forming
a bustle at the back, and hand-appliqued
lace on the bodice. Her bridesmaid,
Frances Shepherd, of Primbee, was in
kingfisher-blue delustred satin, and carried
pink Cecil Brunner roses. Guests
included military and country friends.
☆' ☆ ☆
The wedding at St. Mary’s Cathedral
on December 12 of Margaret Barrett and
Lieut. Kerry Bell has special interest
to Tasmania and Victoria ; the bride’s
grandfather was the late William
Robinson, a former editor of Hobart
“Mercury,” and afterwards of Mel-
bourne “Argus.” She is the only daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. L. H. Barrett, of
Greenwich, and the bridegroom is the
only son of Mr. and Mrs. K. D. Bell,
of Rotorua (N.Z.). After their wedding,
the young couple will leave for New
Zealand, where Lieut. Bell has been
posted for a year.


be included in the party, but he
said that no pressmen were to
be allowed to be present. I
pressed my assurance that I
would publish nothing without
his permission, and, moreover,
my view that my presence
would be a guarantee that no
garbled accounts would
appear.
Eventually he agreed, but I
was not to be classed as a
pressman. I would have to
be a member of his staff as
“an observer.” There were
four of us on the staff—three
observers, S. F. H. Laws
(electrical - assistant), R. A.
Ricketson (a friend of Bal-
sillie’s) and myself; we also
had with us an agreeable chap
named N. MacKinnon, a rigger.
lived comfortably and
** happily in a railway
sleeping-car which had been
shunted onto a side-line near
the Bookaloo station. Included
in the plant were a generating-
engine, a number of huge
kites (7ft. 6in. high and about
7ft. across), miles of light
spring-wire ropes, and numer-
ous scientific instruments and
much other equipment.
Balsillie always deprecated
the use of the term “rain-
making.” He was careful to
explain that no scientist would
put forward the theory that
rain could be forced to Tall if
sufficient moisture did not
already exist in some form in
the atmosphere. This point, it
may be remembered, has been
emphasised by the scientific
staffs now seeking to do what
Balsillie had in view.
Put in ordinary language,
Balsillie’s contention, as I
understood it, was that if high-
tension static-electricity were
discharged in an atmosphere
containing tiny particles of
water (certain cloud forma-
tions), coalescence would take
place and these would continue
to enlarge until gravitation
brought them down to the
earth as rain. This was termed
“cloud-punching.” He also
carried out experiments in
dew-collection with a frame-
work of wire erected over
catchment troughs.
My few weeks at Bookaloo
provided me with sufficient
material for an exclusive
article in Melbourne
“Herald” (January 11, 1916),
in which I said that the experi-
ments gave great promise of
ultimate success.
In Balsillie’s final report of
the Bookaloo experiments in
1917 he said, inter alia :
“Recognising that the puny
efforts of man can never hope
by any thermodynamic process
to alter or modify weather-
conditions, even locally, I have
directed my investigations
towards ascertaining whether
the electrical conditions of the
atmosphere can be varied so
as to exercise, to a certain very
limited extent, a control over
weather-conditions or to pro-
cure or ( stimulate rainfall
locally.”
After referring to graphs
accompanying the report, he
went on to say:
“An examination of these
discloses a striking increase of
rainfall at and about Booka-
loo over an area of country
of approximately 375 square-
miles. The rainfall-records
quoted in all cases were taken
by railway officials or station-
owners unconnected with the
staff engaged in the investiga-
tions.”
It was decided, on the
results achieved at Bookaloo,
to extend the experiments to
York and Hopetoun in Western
Australia, Boonoke in the
Riverina district of N.S.W.,
and the Wimmera in Victoria.
This necessitated a much-
enlarged staff, but as I had
already told the Bookaloo
story there was no necessity
for me to go. The work was
continued until 1921, when
the whole subject was referred
to the Bureau of Science and
Industry, which later became
the Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research
Organisation.
T>alsillie made his official
report in 1921. Why
nearly 30 years were allowed
to pass before the experiments
were resumed by the C.5.1.R.0.
it is difficult to understand.
Perhaps the reason was the
sarcasm and ridicule, among
a few members of Parliament
in particular, about “money
being wasted on these hare-
brained experiments.”
It was the same when Dr.
Peter Thompson, now recog-
nised as a brilliant Australian
scientist, was working on the
possibility of releasing energy
from thermo-nuclear reactions
which would make the oceans
of the world an inexhaustible
source of fuel. He was regar-
ded as a “crackpot,” but fortun-
ately he lived to confound his
critics. His fame is now world-
wide.
And, of course, the ridicule
about rain-stimulation is no
longer heard. Not long before
he died Sid lan Clunies-Ross,
then chairman of C.5.1.R.0.,
said that aeroplanes to “seed”
clouds with silver-iodide pellets
had been used over two years,
and that, while rainmaking in
the past had been a vague
possibility, now it was a
probability.
Balsillie was on the right
track with his coalescence
theory, but he had to try to
bring this about in the air with
kites and balloons. Aero-
planes have made all the
difference.
Balsillie was good enough
to give me copies of extracts
from his laboratory - book.
These relate to the means and
apparatus he proposed to
employ for the purpose of
“causing the precipitation of
aqueous vapor in the atmos-
phere”; experiments to prove
that the atmosphere at eleva-
tions up to 10,000ft. is free
from ionisations; experiments
to ascertain whether air could
be charged from a source of
high - potential direct - current
electricity by means of
Rontgen-rays, etc.
A fter the rainfall-experi-
ments Balsillie turned his
inventive genius to the pro-
duction of a non-glare motor-
car headlight. The article he
produced, after some months
of steady tests, was parabola-
shaped, much like the ordinary
car-reflector, but was ribbed
from top to bottom. These
vertical lines, 16 to the inch,
had the surprising effect of
throwing a broad horizontal
beam, which spread evenly out
like a fan.
I was present at many trials
in the Government Domain,
St. Kilda Road, Melbourne. I
used to stand a good distance
in front of a stationary car —
far enough away to enable a
car moving at average speed
to pull-up before it hit me —
and would see my legs and
the lower portion of my body
clearly illuminated, while the
upper portion would remain
quite dark. The dividing-line
between dark and light was
very marked. Balsillie called
his invention “Flatlight.”
I was so impressed that 1
secured from Balsillie the Vic-
torian agency for the sale of
the apparatus. Manufacture,
however, was very expensive,
because the reflectors had to
be practically hand-made to
suit the variety of headlamps
which were fitted to all
imported cars. The retail price
was £2 2s. and we sold quite a
number.
It was soon apparent that
the business would remain a
small one unless overseas car-
manufacturers could be inter-
ested. With this in view, Bal-
sillie went to the United States.
There he soon struck a snag.
Under the patent laws of that
country, it appeared that
“conception” of an idea could
be protected, although no
patent had been actually taken
out, nor any article produced.
Manufacturers were dis-
turbed at the prospect of hav-
ing to remodel their lamp-
making sections to install this
new design. After negotia-
tions had gone on for some
time, Balsillie became con-
vinced that the big car-tycoons
had come to an understanding
not to buy his reflector. They
unearthed a “conception” by
a man hamed Brown. This
appeared to have the same
basic idea, but instead of
vertical ridges about 16 to the
inch a series of |in. flat verti-
cal curves was suggested.
Balsillie was not strong
enough financially to fight this
patent issue, and, although he
was convinced that the Brown
conception would not be half
as efficient as his own, he was
forced to accept a compromise
which provided for a royalty
of 2j cents on the manufacture
of each flatlight reflector
embodying his idea.
Balsillie was a very disap-
pointed and frustrated man.
It was not long afterwards that
a cable arrived announcing his
sudden death.
(To be concluded next week, with
“Some Secret Newspaper History,”
the close - acquaintanceship story
of “A Great Industrialist,” and a
brief chapter or two of some ot
the author’s lighter journalistic
moments.)
MORNING
Windows swing open; and my
mind
Sleeps in the morning.
Nature and the paper-hoy
Mouth nothings, while I try
To express insurmountable
joy.
O the world is so sharply
colored !
Language suspended like a
mist
Dormant in my mind.
If I should speak, our dream,
A deep and enriching thing,
So carefully woven, might
seem
Shallow. But still, it’s a test.
N.S.W,
ADRIAN WINTLE.


California, “an attractive capitalist,”
who had just returned from lecturing
in Russia on America; she always
wore violets, and, in 1958, when she
went to see the coffin of “L’Aiglon,”
Napoleon’s son, which Hitler had
brought from Vienna to Paris in 1941
to rest beside Napoleon’s tomb, there
were the violets that she had left on
the young man’s coffin, 20 years before,
in Vienna! And this is to say nothing
of Helen, the American cancer-
researcher Colin Simpson met on the
Rhine steamer, or the Belgian girl
he helped to catch the Naples boat, or
Mademoiselle Daenzar, the “pearl of a
tour guide,” in Switzerland, who intro-
duced him to the Alpine lifeguard who
makes parachute-jumps with an
Alsatian bitch in his arms to sniff-out
skiers buried in the snow . . .
But on! On! England awaits the
reader (and Mary Patchett, “the only
Australian I know who is an expert
on falconry”) with its green-benched
House of Commons, stately homes,
excellent jellied eel, execrable oysters,
fine little old village pubs and Edin-
burgh Festival, where Simpson had
conversation with T. S. Eliot. After
some small-talk about Japan, says
Simpson,
I said I used to write poetry but
no longer did so, and did he think
there was commonly a condition
which I could only describe as a
kind of hardening of the emotional
arteries? He said he hoped not,
and that he had never felt it himself,
and he trusted that I would soften
up again.
So much for what Eliot had to say
to Simpson, but Simpson, who hadn’t
liked his play, was equally at a loss for
words: —
I liked the man so much that I
left him wishing fervently that I
could have said to him, “I thought
‘The Elder Statesman’ was a fine
play.”
The engaging thing about Simpson,
apart from his exact “camera-eye”
descriptions and his efficient coverage
of people and places, is his refusal to
pontificate, to work those tricks of
superiority which make awe-inspiring
connoisseurs of men with half his
ability. He may seem jejeune consider-
ing the Folies Bergeres as a work of
art, but he is seeing it for the first
time. One may not share his opinion,
but one can understand his embarrass-
ment at the hisses of horror and shame
that greeted the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s entry of a Streeton at the
Venice Biennale, which is all advance-
guard painting (one would rather see
Pevsner’s wife than his sculptures, “a
Georgian with whiter-than-milk skin
and eyes like two pools of Prussian
blue”); but, all in all, this is Austria,
Italy, both sides of Berlin, Germany,
France, Switzerland, Holland, Belgium,
Monaco, Nice, Cannes, Capri, England
and Scotland, as the ordinary Aus-
tralian would see them for the first
time; 400 crammed pages of mostly
first-hand observation, and with many
pictures, many in color, many photo-
graphed by the author.
Queenslandiana
Queensland continues to do its duty
in its centenary year by producing
books about itself; and if Keith Gillett
(photography) and Frank McNeil
(text), who are jointly responsible for
The Great Barrier Reef and Adjacent
Islands, are Sydneysiders, and the
publisher, Coral Press, lives at the sur-
prising address of Paddington, there is
at least an introduction by I. M.
Mackerras, director of the Queensland
Institute of Medical Research, and
there is no doubt about the Queensland
—and general—interest of the book.
This is, indeed, a superb publication.
Readers familiar with Roughley and
other authorities on the Reef naturally
look with some misgivings .on a new
book about it for fear it just covers
the same topics in the same way; but
this, at a glance, is something fresh;
and it is, in fact, an indispensable
addition to any Nature-lover’s library
as well as an ideal guidebook for
visitors to the Reef.
Frank McNeil’s text (he is at the
Australian Museum) tells you every-
thing you need to know about every-
thing from the turtle to the nudibranch
(which is not a new form of bikini
—it is a naked sea-slug) and also has
some practical information about
accommodation on the various
islands; but the really striking
thing about the book is the photo-
graphs, no fewer than 27 in color (an
almost unheard-of generosity for these
expensive days) and scores, almost
equally attractive the incredible
picture of the hermit-crab, for instance
—in black-and-white. There is also a
chapter on the technique of marine
photography, and a special section on
Lord Howe Island.
Sharks, by Peter Goadby, and Snakes
and Lizards, by D. R. McPhee, are
two of the excellent little Jacaranda
Pocket Guides from the Jacaranda
Press, Brisbane. They are not restricted
to things that bite you in Queensland
but cover the whole Australian field.
Illustrated, with letterpress both scienti-
fic and informal, they are useful guides
to identification as well as interesting
pieces of reading, and are attractive in
their pocket-size format.
Kathleen McArthur’s Queensland
Big Demand for
Australian Books
At the recent Library Congress in
Sydney, librarians said it was hard to
meet the demand for Australian books
today.
Recently a wide variety of outstand-
ing new books by Australian authors
has been published, and the high
standard is very encouraging.
A guide book to Europe planned
specially for Australian travellers is
Colin Simpson’s Wake Up in EHrope
(37/6), a beautifully illustrated record
of his recent Grand Tour through the
main countries of the, Continent.
Sydney in the 1920 s is the setting of
D’Arcy Niland’s forceful new novel,
The Big Smoke (17/6).
An eyewitness account of the loss
of the “Titanic” is a highlight of
Tramps and Ladies, by Sir James
Bisset (27/6). This is the second book
in his epic story of seafaring adventures.
Day-by-day experiences of a white
woman living among the primitive
Wahgi Valley natives of New Guinea
are recorded by Margaret Spencer in her
Doctor’s Wife in New Guinea (22/6).
Forty-six books and still going
strong —that’s the proud record of lon
Idriess. His latest is The Tin Scratchers
(22/6), about the frontier days of tin-
mining in Cape York Peninsula.
The home of Sydney Opera House
architect Joern Utzon is illustrated in
International Interiors and Design, by
Clive Carney (84/-), a large, attractive
volume packed with new decorating
ideas.
Frank McCann had only just gradu-
ated as a doctor when he took up
practice in the Northern Territory. He
tells of his many funny, heart-warming
experiences in Medicine Man (17/6).
Another good entertaining book about
Australia’s outback is Steak For Break-
fast, by Elizabeth O’Connor (17/-).
Both these books are enlivened by
Phil Taylor’s hilarious line drawings.
Jimmy Brockett, by Dal Stivens
(22/6) tells of a modern Australian go-
getter who smashed his way to wealth
and power in the early 1900 s.
A sixteen-year-old boy’s adventures
as a driver of Cobb and Co. coaches
during the gold rushes is the theme of
When Cobb and Co. Was King, by
Will Lawson (17/6). Older children
will enjoy this colourful story.
The New Surf Club, by Claire
Meillon (17/6), is a lively, informative
story for boys and girls aged from 10
to 15. It tells a lot about the magnifi-
cent service of our surf life saving clubs.
These books are published by Angus
and Robertson and are obtainable
from all booksellers.


YOU'LL GIVE MORE
WITH AUSTRALIAN
BOOKS THIS YEAR
p
REDHEAP
Norman Lindsay’s
classic, novel, banned
29 years ago and
available now for the
first time 21/-
*
Sr
■' *•*•**•
£
SUMMER
GLARE
by Gerard Hamilton.
Proclaimed as the
Australian novel of the
year. . . . 19/6
m
STRIKE ME
LUCKY
by Joy Cleary. Gold is
found in the backyards
of a small country
town. A lively, humor-
ous novel 18/-
: ;.u i
mm
WHY CAN'T
THE ENGLISH?
by Lesley Rowlands.
The English as an Aus-
tralian found them. A
very funny book,
beautifully decorated.
I I 4$
SO, YOU WANT
TO BE AN
AUSTRALIAN
Cyril Pearl’s little mas-
terpiece that makes
such a splendid gift—
and this is its first
Xmas 12/6
And, of course,
THEY'RE A WEIRD MOB,
by Nino Culotta. Still very much in
demand this Xmas 16/-
Published for Australians by
URE SMITH. SYDNEY.
ALL BOOKSELLERS
An Authoritative Work on Australia’s Most Fascinating Region
THE GREAT BARRIER REEF
AND ADJACENT ISLES
By KEITH GILLETT, a.r.p.s.
and FRANK McNEILL, Curator Invertebrates, Aust. Museum
208 pages, Lavishly Illustrated, 27 Plates in natural colour,
131 Black and White Plates. Printed on finest.quality art paper.
Limited First Edition obtainable from All Leading Booksellers
Price 70/- (Postage and Packing 2/6 extra)
Published by CORAL PRESS PTY. LTD.,
56-58 Sutherland Street, Paddington, N.S.W.
Wildflowers, a larger and more elabor-
ate publication from the Jacaranda
Press, is, says the author, the first
popular book on Queensland wild-
flowers to be published. Attractively
illustrated in color by the author and
arranged as a floral calendar, it should
be welcome as a guide to identification
in its own State and would also be of
interest anywhere in the Common-
wealth, partly because so many of the
Queensland flowers are to be found in
other States, partly because of the
knowledge and enthusiasm with which
it is written.
Kathleen McArthur has a literary
rather than a purely botanical approach
to her subject, and thus has a most
refreshing interest in the popular
names of the wildflowers. As she
rightly believes, it is when the flowers
are popularly named, not only when
they are classified, that they will be
cherished: and who, either in litera-
ture or in the bush, could resist
Nunyi-um and Midyim (those edible
fruits so admirably named by the
aborigines), or Parson’s Band and Cat’s
Whiskers (in which we have done pretty
well ourselves)? It is a pity, incident-
ally, that Mrs. McArthur hasn’t picked-
up the popular name for Bladderworts
—this reviewer remembers hearing one
somewhere, but has forgotten what it
was, and the dreadful official title will
never do for those exquisite little blue
fairies of the swamps.
Adelaide Anthology
The second issue of the Adelaide
annual, Verse in Australia, 1959,
selected by Robert Clark, Geoffrey
Dutton, Max Harris and lan Mudie
(“Australian Letters”), is highly gratify-
ing, and not only because more than
half of it (23 poems) is from this
year’s “Bulletin.”
The anthology defends a principle
dear to the present reviewer, that
poetry is poetry whether it is done by
the learned, critical and dedicated or
falleth like the gentle dew: “The Man
from Tumbarumba,” by J. Wolfe,
“farmer and writer, aged 26,” has
enough freshness and rightness about
it to make one old pro.. wonder why
he ever started doing it for money.
Then again there is a wide field of
clear reference from Rosemary Dob-
son’s account of “Captain Svenson”
giving the hospital sisters a thrill
to John Thompson’s “Photograph
Album.” It is good to see Roland
Robinson presenting a story by his
aboriginal friend Percy Mumbulla in
verse instead of prose, Ray Mathew
extending his reputation in the love-
lyric, Nancy Cato remembering her
Great-aunt Agnes, and Geoffrey
Dutton back in the surf with a dark-
haired girl (though in a 1954
“Bulletin” she was a “lovely, long-
legged lazy blonde, wandering down
the sand to the sea”).
The sonnet gets a working-over by
David Campbell, Anne Bell, Pal
Cleary, Douglas Stewart and the pre-
sent reviewer, and there is one by
David Martin, of Melbourne, to a
Sydney policeman that one wouldn’t
care to write oneself in Sydney.
In the more reflective pieces Robert
D. Fitz Gerald continues his continual
debate with himself, Nancy Keesing
considers a coming year’s tragedies in
advance, Noel Macainsh manages to
be metaphysical about a drains-
inspector, Francis Webb is exquisitely
lyrical on church-bells, Judith Wright’s
“Diver” is only less marvellous than
her other recent astonishing perform-
ance, the poem on playing-fields in
the style of Blake. But the most
intriguing of the metaphysical pieces
is the last, “Messiah with Olive
Branch,” by R. W. Young, on whom
there is no information, so it may be
a nom-de-plume—its subject is quite
as anonymous, but there is no doubt
about the force and originality of the
thinking.
R. McC.
Bisset, Vol. II
In the second volume of his
memoirs, Tramps and Ladies, in
collaboration with P. R. Stephensen
(Angus and Robertson), Sir James
Bisset has left sail and, at the age of
21, in 1905, is going into steam, and


ll>'A
yyjrw'w
H
,
\j
\l\
A
Unique and Beautiful Gift ...
For Son, Grandson or Young Friend
Ideal Birthday Gift or School Prize
TREASURE ISLAND
By ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
Profuse with Atmospheric Illustrations —with Ten Plates in Colour.
Illustrated by Australian Artist, William Bustard. With Typographical
Elegance produced by Skilled Pressmen, Sewn and Bound into Gold-Tooled
Covers.
and its Companion Volume
ROBINSON CRUSOE
By DANIEL DEFOE
Produced in the same exciting style as “TREASURE ISLAND” —
completing a fine Pair of Volumes—a constant joy to the young
book lover.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
Printers and Publishers
304 QUEEN STREET :: BRISBANE
Obtainable at all Good Book Stores
Size 12| in. x 10 in.
Price £212/-
Per Volume
id*
he steams through some 300 pleasant,
if uneventful, pages to an exciting
climax in the wreex of the Titanic: he
was second-officer on the Carpathia.
which was first over the wreck and
picked-up the only survivors.
The future captain of the Queen
Elizabeth and Queen Mary may seem
to have had a lot of luck in being on
the spot in the sea’s great moments,
but throughout the book one observes
that such men get there because they
don’t neglect opportunities. Sir James’s
early trips in tramps and small
passenger-ships to South America, the
Mediterranean, the Persian Gulf and
India, etc., were all conditioned by his
anxiety to get his Master’s ticket. He
preferred to be out of work than to
stay in a berth as third-mate when a
second-mateship. was required by the
examiners. A firm of shipowners
secured his services on one voyage as
third-mate by calling him second-
officer (i.e., after the captain there were
the chief-officer, first-officer and second-
officer), but despite assurances that it
would be all right. Bisset went to the
Examiner of Masters and Mates at the
Board of Trade Office at Liverpool,
who told him, “You’re only wasting
your time.”
So he almost went back to sail, but
left the sailing-ship in the lurch when
he heard of a second-mateship on a
new steamship, the Jura, where the
captain took his little daughter to bear
him company—rand a piano on which
she drove them almost mad until
Bisset was commissioned to tune it. a
job he did so badly that the captain
locked it up.
So j-|g progressed to a first-mateship
on a carg"o-boat taking coal to
Bermuda and loading lumber in
Canada for Glasgow: got home with
two <jays Q f t^e bme required by the
examiners still to serve, worked it out
on t^e tr |p f rom Glasgow to Swansea,
t jj e angry captain loading him with
labor on the way. and returned to
Liverpool to pass his examination
Even , hen j h his Master , s ticket
, . , „ , t , ,
m , h ‘ s P°u h T, f
satisfied, but his mother and father
insisted on his passing for Extra
Master. His mother offered him £1 a
week pocket-money while he studied
for the examination, and in nine weeks
he was through, and had a note from
the senior examiner to the Cunard
Company, which immediately made
him fourth-officer (at £7 a month) of
the Caronia. which with its sister-
ship the Carmania had only lately been
superseded as the biggest and fastest
ships in the world.
As a Cunard officer he was made.
and stayed made, although he had to
leave the Britain-America run and do
a lot of work bringing migrants from
the Mediterranean to America before
he got the crack commands that put
him at the top of his profession. He
is very interesting on the competition
for the Atlantic Blue Ribband, and on
the various Governments' financing of
companies owning big liners because of
the value of liners as auxiliary cruisers
in time of war; but he is even more
interesting in his assessments of the
various captains he worked under, the
old captain with arthritis, for instance,
so confident in his ship thaf he wouldn’t
come on the bridge in ihe heaviest
storm in wide waters, but only to pilot
her expertly in ports and rivers; with
an empty revolver he cowed a stoker
who had cut open an engineer’s head
with a shovel.
Then there was Captain Rostron of
the Carpathia, who was religious, and
could be seen praying on the bridge,
and who “drove the Carpathia at
forced full speed, in darkness, into the
icefield in which the Titanic had met
with disaster,” saving 703 of the 2207
who had been aboard.
That the story of the Titanic has
often been told makes no difference to
Sir James’s account, a dramatic, com-
plete, moving and fascinating conclu-
sion to this second stage of his life in
progress.


_
m
m
w
c
s. •
<P
&
T'- .
J Jts.
x /
' *
£(
3Mi
qy
THIS CHRISTMAS...you can open your doors
wide fo an old friend.
As a gift, what could be nicer than a bottle of
our famous “White Label” Scotch Whisky?
Especially in the new, attractively coloured
“Highlander” Presentation Carton.
Obtainable on request from your regular
supplier.
