

The Bulletin
What’s Wrong with Sydney Hospital?—page 3*
Wednesday, July 1, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


BE A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER!
Tf YOTT have the urge to Write and a love for
expressing yourself in words, you can learn to
write Successful Short Stories, Articles, Written
Sketches. Radio Talks, Pars., Verse, etc.
“During the paat six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £200.”
“1 am pleased to report further Successes since
Les. 10. This makes £53 in hand with more
to come.”
“1 list hereunder my Acceptances to the amount
of £.106/10/9.”
“Mv earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.”
“During the Course I sold five Stories, which
more than paid for my fees.”
Stotts Correspondence College
l. r >o Flinders Lane, Melbourne ; 34!) Castle-
roagh St.. Sydney: 2!>o Adelaide St.. Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St.. Adelaide; 204 Murray
St., Perth.
—— CUT AND NAIL Tins COUPON"
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation. your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAMTO
ADDRESS
AGE (SE 1359)-
[BOOK-HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtaiu volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tee only if successful.
The Red Page
QUEENSLAND NOVEL
It is pleasant to see a new novel
from Margaret Trist, after a gap of
some years; and all the more pleasant
in that Morning in Queensland (W. H.
Allen, Ltd.) is in many ways the best
book she has yet published. It has
the characteristic charm and warmth
of her short-stories, perhaps with not
quite so fine an edge of lyricism but
with the additional solidity that the
form of the novel requires; and in
richness of portraiture and material as
well as in size it is a good deal more
substantial than her earlier novel
“Now That We’re Laughing.”
Making a timely appearance for
the Queensland centenary year;' it is a
picture of a small girl’s childhood in
a Queensland town called Goom-
budgerie, ending with her escape to a
wider life in Sydney in her adoles-
cence. There is not much plot about
it, except that basic human story of
growing-up; but it is precisely because
it is basic and human —and naturally
and authentically Australian; and
enlivened with the incidental comedies
and tragedies of many delightful aunts,
uncles, grandparents, small girlfriends,
etc. —that it is appealing.
Life at home in the small town
when there was never enough money
to pay the bills; life on the farm with
the perilous cows and her grand-
parents; the first enchanting holiday in
Sydney; school; the fascinating dis-
covery of the Facts of Life; boredom
In the small town; escape to the city—
this, with variations, is obviously a
typical Australian childhood, and it is
described with warmth and humor.
Though it is sometimes seen through
the eyes of an adult looking back
instead of simply through the eyes of
the child, the description of the small
town —where the baker’s wife had a
beard, and two American negresses
called Doo and Dah wore all the
clothes they owned “one on top of
the other,” and the chemist’s window
had death-adders pickled in glass
bottles —could hardly be bettered.
One of Margaret Trist’s problems in
the early chapters of the novel is that
it is hard to make a substantial
character out of a very young child.
Tansy is “universal,” in that she falls
in the creek and that sort of thing, but
there is not much of her to be seen
very clearly. But here the aunts, uncles
and grandparents come in to sustain
the interest, as also do Tansy’s own
parents, the long-suffering mother and
the father who is always away up
North —incidentally, the only time he
comes home during the course of the
book his wife, ironically, is away on
a holiday. As she grows a little older,
however, Tansy herself begins to
become visible and is equally effective
at the imaginative stage when, sitting
in school, she persuades herself that
their house has been blown away in
a storm or at the later stage of criti-
cism of her parents when she squirms
with horror at her mother’s innocent
habit of using long, old-fashioned
words in odd places:—
“What! John with a paunch. I
haven’t noticed. He was so lean
and tall, a veritable scarecrow as a
youth.”
Veritable indeed! If her mother
would only stop reading those books
from the School of Arts . . .
The story drags a bit in a few places
where events are recorded merely
because they happened, not because
they were significant or entertaining;
and the prose on a few occasions slips
into the slipshod; but on the whole it
is well written and thoroughly enjoy-
able.
Flying Doctor Novel
Jon Cleary’s new novel, Back of
Sunset (Collins), has rolled off the
production-line with the announce-
ment on the dust-cover that the film
rights have already been sold; and
rightly so; it is a most adroitly drama-
tised story of the Flying Doctor
Service.
By Chapter 3 the reader is hoping
that the nice, tanned, clean-living
young outback widow who runs the
receiving end of the flying-doctor
radio-service, will get young Dr.
Stephen who has come outback for
a holiday; he must not go to the
smooth, supercilious, arty, social-
butterfly daughter of the old Sydney
doctor whose practice he shares.
By Chapter 5 he has made a
malignant enemy of a grubby station-
owner whose sick partner has died
through no fault of the young doctor’s;
and then you know it is only a matter
of filling-in with flying-service back-
ground and minor incidents until the
big moment when either he kills the
grubby station-owner in fair fight, or at
the risk of his own safety saves the
grubby station-owner from death, to
be his friend and well-wisher for life.
Cleary has become pretty well
faultless in the contrivances which
push a novel on easily and smoothly.
The denunciations of the grubby
station-owner put the young doctor on
his mettle; he goes down in a diving-
suit to stage-up a Japanese diver who
has contracted bends, but his success
here is balanced by the death, mean-
while, of a boy whose parents had
radioed a faulty set of symptoms; and
this is balanced by a miracle-operation
after a faulty diagnosis by another
doctor. The country dance where the
hatred of the grubby station-owner
comes to a peak is the planting-ground
of the typhoid-scare which, with its
comings and goings over miles of
country, makes a grand finale of
derring-do and forgiveness somewhat
similar to the car-chase or runaway
coach of other such films.
It is a first-rate novel in the field
of fictional journalism, in which
characteristic types are photographed
against a carefully-studied background
which has value as news. When the
job is done as successfully as this is,
it is hard to say what more could be
required —less of the feeling, perhaps,
that the author is the manager of a
modelling-agency. Nevertheless, for
such novels to support an Australian
author in the style to which Jon Cleary
is becoming accustomed is a step
towards a necessary sophistication for
our writing.
New Upheld Mystery
Arthur Upheld has, thank heaven,
moved out of the city atmosphere of
Broken Hill back to the mulga in his
latest Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte
novel, Bony and the Mouse (Heine-
mann). He is in a one-pub village
run by the comic old Bung, where a
black girl, a garage-hand and a cattle-
man’s wife have been murdered.
Approaching the scene of the crime,
(Continued on page 58)


QUEEN
LAND
n
CON*
where a wealth
of natural resources
ensures continued
development
This is a task which has a significance extending far beyond
the borders of the State itself! Because of the great and
evergrowing contribution which Queensland makes to the
security and economic strength of the nation, this is a
project which affects all Australia. That is why you are
offered the opportunity of making a sound and profitable
investment in this Queensland State Electricity Loan. The
money which Australians are subscribing to this Loan will
provide the power on which almost every major develop-
mental enterprise depends for continued rapid expansion.
Join with those responsible Australians who recognise this
vital need —become an investor now!
THE STATE
COMMISSION
OF QUEENSLAND
£5.7.6% INTEREST (GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED)
5,10, or 20 year terms
APPLY NOW THROUGH— Any of the following
banks: Commonwealth Trading Bank A.N.Z.
Bank Commercial Banking Company Com-
mercial Bank of Australia—E.S.&A. Bank —
Bank of N.S.W. —National Bank of A’asia.;
any Stockbroker, or direct to the State Elec-
tricity Commission of Q’ld., 447 Gregory
Terrace, Brisbane. Phone 5 2701.
Underwritten by Charles A Qrd & Minneft


The Bulletin
Wednesday , July 1, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4142
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 .George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
AN EQUITABLE SCHEME
r rHE tax-sharing plan of the Federal
Government came as a cold shock
for at least one of the Premiers in
Canberra for the annual Mendicants’
Week.
To the States as a whole the plan
is a reasonable one, but in effect they
must work for their living if they are
to get the full benefit of it. Cries of
pain and anguish, if the plan is fully
established, will cease to be arguments;
the only justification for bigger quotas
—apart from increases in actual
amount consequent on general expan-
sion-will be increased development
and a proper usage of the money.
The agony of Premier Cahill at what
he called this “revolutionary” scheme
was natural. He has for too long been
allowed to play the game of squeezing
money out of the Commonwealth tax-
payers in general while his Govern-
ment hangs back in. the shafts and
makes a good fellow of itself with the
right electors in the right electorates.
He has consistently used the taxation-
and loan-money he gets from Canberra
for political bribes expended on non-
reproductive works and in paying for
short hours and sloth.
r yTIE basis of the Commonwealth’s
new scheme is equitable in theory;
only inequitable perhaps in not going
as far as it might in helping the less-
developed regions of the north and
nor’-west.
The plan will mean the end of
supplementary grants to the States
and of the special “need” grants to
South Australia, Western Australia and
Tasmania. It is planned primarily to
add to the States’ share in taxation
progressively during the next six years,
but on a fixed formula tied to
population-increases and wage-levels.
States which stand still will find
their grants standing still, and those
which are engaged in forward-looking
development will get a bonus for their
industry and progressiveness.
Under this arrangement, N. S. Wales
might, as Cahill so plaintively says, be
“suffering for the benefit of the other
States.” But such suffering would be
to the benefit of Australia as a whole
and would be incurred only because of
the faults of the Cahill Government.
N. S. Wales penalises industry and
commerce with grasping land-taxes,
heavy transport-imposts, a run-down
railway and city-transport system,
differential rates which increase the
pay of women above the levels of other
States, shorter hours than other States
in some sections of industry and a
number of other concessions to voters
of the right color, including a whittling
of deterrents to lawless strikes.
course Cahill says he supports
the return of taxing-powers to the
States, because then he could go the
limit. But his support is only lip-
service. He knows quite well that if
he had to do his own taxing he would
soon be faced with the cold disability
that N. S. Wales was the highest-taxed
part of the Commonwealth. Nothing
would more quickly get rid of the
Cahill Government than to throw it
on its own revenue-resources. That
would rob it of all its outworn excuses
for resisting the clamor of school-
teachers, hospital - committees and
others claiming to be suffering from'
the money-starvation which Cahill
righteously lays at the door of the
Commonwealth Treasury.
At the last Premiers’ Conference
art undertaking was given that a new
formula would be devised. If the old
system had been adhered to, the grants-
under-formula, plus supplementary
grants, would have increased payments
from £205 million to £220 million this
year; but the Commonwealth acknow-
ledged the necessity of adding £22.5
million for existing needs. The total will
be divided among the States on the
basis of the percentage of the whole
received by each during last year.
In the five years following it is pro-
posed that grants should be on a per-
capita basis arrived at by dividing each
State’s 1959-60 quota by its estimated
population at June 30, 195.9, and
multiplying the result each year by
that year’s estimated population at
June 30.
The aggregate figure would be
varied to meet changes in average Aus-
tralian wages in the previous year, and
it would be finally smoothed off with
allowance of 10 per cent, of wage
variations as a “betterment factor.”
Under this scheme the approximate
figures would give Tasmania
£36 16s. lid. and Westralia £35 6s. 7d.
per head for a start. South Australia’s
figure would be £29 2s. 4d., Queens-
land’s £25 2s. 3d., Victoria’s
£2l 12s. lOd. and N. S. Wales
£2l 17s. 6d.
Westralia and Tasmania would still
be at liberty to apply for special grants,
but as Acting Prime Minister McEwen
declared, there should be no need for
the other States to make applications
to the Grants Commission except in
very special circumstances.
To Cahill’s plea that the new
formula, as between Victoria and
N. S. Wales, made no allowance for
higher administrative costs caused by
the greater distances in the Ma State,
although that factor seemed to have
been allowed for in the case of Queens-
land, McEwen admitted that in
rounding-off the percentages N. S.
Wales had suffered slightly. He agreed
to add an extra £1 million to the
N. S. Wales quota, from Common-
wealth funds. A similar sum would
be given to South Australia to avoid
an application to the Federal Grants
Commission which would almost
certainly succeed.
If Cahill still thinks he’s being sold
a pup, he deserves no sympathy; neither
do the people of his State who put up
with his kind of Government. If, as he
says, the new formula will bolster the
finances of other States at the expense
of N. S. Wales, it will be only because
they will earn their bonuses by growth
of population and production.
Queensland, with its vast mineral
resources and land-development prob-
lems, has need of a better method of
financing expansion. And it is fair
that the more-developed States should
carry their proportion of cost of
operations which are adding, and will
continue to add increasingly, to the
wealth and external income of the
whole Commonwealth, bringing benefit
to the south as well as the north. Such
projects, for instance, as the recon-
struction of the Mt. Isa railway and
its maintenance, and the linkage of a
standard-gauge railway from Perth to
the east coast, are just as much the
concern of Sydney as of any part of
the States in which the relevant works
are carried out.
TN recent years N. S. Wales has lost
opportunity after opportunity to Vic-
toria and South Australia because of
its shabby and suspect Government.
As it is, N. S. Wales will start off
under the new scheme with £83.45
million, or more than a third of the
£244.5 million which the Common-
wealth proposes to allocate. Victoria
and South Australia between them will
have only a little under £5 million
more, though they are making an
immensely greater progress and con-
tribution to Australian development.
It seems that the scheme is the most
equitable yet devised, and one which
will pay a premium on enterprise by
State Governments, and place a penalty
on sloth and squander.


"STILL NOT MUCH MEAT ON IT!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Kremlin's Two Faces
The deceit and duplicity of the Soviet
Union was never better illustrated than
in the events of last week in a zone
stretching from the Adriatic to Burma.
At the European end of this line, having
consistently practised its policy of ebb-
and-flow at the Geneva conference, it
suddenly sent Notes to eight countries,
including Britain, France, the United
States and all the main countries facing
the northern and eastern shores of the
Mediterranean, proposing a zone free of
nuclear weapons and rockets in the
Balkans and the Adriatic.
This would be a magnificent arrange-
ment for the Russians if they wished to
make a spearhead attack on France and
England, clearing their southern flank
—“the soft underbelly of Europe”—of
any menace from reprisals. If the agree-
ment were carried-out it would leave
Russia with a monopoly of atomic
weapons in Eastern Europe, since there
could be no method of preventing the
Red Army from flying-in nuclear guns
and rockets within a few hours whenever
they felt the inclination.
Agreements, unless guaranteed by
strength, must be based on good faith,
and it would be too much to expect that
a Government which has never kept any
agreement would keep this one.
It was somewhat unfortunate for the
Kremlin propaganda’s value that on the
day it was launched its enthusiastic friend
Colonel Mahdawi, of the Iraqi Army,
who has become notorious for his so-
called “trials,” and is as much to be
trusted with atomic weapons as a small
boy with a box of detonators and gelig-
nite, announced that Iraq had atomic
weapons. If this is true, they must have
come from those haters of atomic war-
fare, the Russians.
The third matter which "links-up with
the general effort of the Kremlin over
the breadth of South-east Asia is a new
“Petrov case” in Burma, accompanied
by all the trimmings which go with inci-
dents of the kind.
The information-officer of the Russian
Embassy in Rangoon last week sought
sanctuary in the American Embassy. It
appears that he is burning with ambition
to “struggle against the cruel and oppres-
sive tyranny of Communism.” His
statements revealed a condition of affairs
in Burma very similar to that in Aus-
tralia in 1951-54. He declared that “the
first obligation of Soviet diplomats
accredited to the free world is spying.”
And he gave some interesting details
about the case of Colonel Mikail Stry-
guine, the military attache who was
hustled out of Burma by an escort of
thugs in a manner closely approximating
the attempt to take Mrs. Petrov to
Moscow from Canberra.
It was this case, and the rough and
illegal treatment they received at the aero-
drome from which the colonel was sent
home, that caused Burmese journalists
recently to pelt the Soviet Embassy build-
ing in Rangoon with ripe tomatoes. It
appears from the statement of the latest
refugee that the colonel attempted suicide
after he had been adversely criticised at
a meeting in the Soviet Embassy. Stry-
guine knew that a feeble Burmese Gov-
ernment could not protect him against
attack by his fellow-countrymen in the
way that Petrov was protected, so he
attempted suicide, but failed and was
sent home en route either to Siberia or
slaughter.
Cases of this sort suggest that there is
little reason for Australians to rejoice at
the return of the Soviet Embassy to
Canberra.
A Subtle Scheme
In the matter of trying new ways to get
old planks in its party-platform built
into the edifice of local-government,
N.S.W. Labor never gives-up. A couple
of weeks ago it was toying with its old
scheme for a Greater Sydney City
Council. Now it has resurrected another
old favorite—payment for aldermen.
Local-Government Minister Renshaw,
speaking rather guardedly, says his
department is considering a proposal for
an amendment to the Local Government
Act which would give municipal and
shire councils the power to pay aldermen
and councillors for loss of wages while
attending to council business.
In the past, when it was announced
that the department had been “consider-
ing” something, this usually meant that
the proposal had gone well past con-
sideration, and had, in fact, been agreed
upon.
The latest Renshaw Plan has a very
innocent look about it. It provides only
for loss of wages, and it won’t be com-
pulsory —it will be left to individual
councils to decide whether to take
advantage of the amendment or not.
No one who has watched Labor’s record
in local-government in N.S.W. will be
taken-in by this show of innocence, or
will doubt that this is merely the first
step towards straight-out payment of
aldermen and the end of voluntary ser-
vice in local-government.
Labor doesn’t believe in voluntary
service, as is shown by its attitude towards
volunteer fire-brigades, and its policy,
in N.S.W. at any rate, seems to be
opposed to the two principles on which
the structure of local-government in Aus-
tralia has been built-up. These are, firstly,
that local-government should be truly
local and, secondly, that its elected repre-
sentatives should give their services to
the neighborhood in which they live
without thought of monetary reward.
The first of these the N.S.W Labor
Government, with its policy of amal-
gamating councils out of existence against
the wishes of the people concerned, has
done much to destroy. The second is
now to be the object of a subtle attack.
Municipal and shire councils which still
believe in the old principles of local-
government should make it clear to
Renshaw that they recognise the true
purpose of his proposal and want none
of it.
The Big Cup
[From “Collins Street”]
Next year’s Centenary Melbourne Cup
will be worth £25,000, indicating that,
whatever doubts may be held in the more
dismal political quarters in Victoria, the
Victoria Racing Club has no doubt
that the off-course totalisator, with its
enormous re.venues, will be operating at
least in Melbourne.
Some Liberal back - benchers, the
Country party and the Labor party have
all been reported recently to be opposed
to any bill the Government may bring
in to legalise the off - course tote. In
recommending the off-course tote, how-
ever, the royal commissioner estimated
that the Government’s share alone would
be £2.6 million a year, a mouth-watering
prospect that is likely to overcome the
scruples of Lib. back-benchers, the
Country party, the Labor party, old
Uncle Tom Cobley and all.
Country racing - club committees, who
had been cheered at the prospect of
becoming as well-to-do through the
operations of the off-course tote as com-
parable clubs in New Zealand, have
lately become uneasy at the reports of
opposition. They have pressed the
Cabinet for an early announcement, but
have received evasive replies.
Bolte, currently picking winners in
Europe, is the protagonist of the move
and has elected to handle it himself.
He made it clear unofficially, before the
royal commissioner reported, that the
Government would act on the report.
There was, of course, little doubt what
this would be, with the example of the
tote’s success in New Zealand and the
poor state of the Turf in those Australian
States with legalised off-course book-
makers.
With its £25,000 the V.R.C. hopes to
attract horses from England, France and
the -Americas. No mention is made of
Russian nags; the V.R.C. finds the
prospect of a Red collecting the Mel-
bourne Cup from the G.-G. on the
Flemington saddling-paddock quite un-
thinkable.
Whether the superior staying horses
from abroad will be attracted is prob-
lematical. - The £25,000 is a glittering
prize by local standards, but the pre-war •
Melbourne Cup, with its comparable
£lO,OOO, didn’t bring ’em in.
The Good Oil
[From Canberra]
Oil is the No. 1 priority in Australia’s
mining - list, National Development
Minister Spooner stated when releasing
a survey on the mineral industry. He
said the Government had already
recognised this priority by getting
through Parliament authority for the
expenditure on oil - search of a further
£1 million yearly for the next three years.
Australia’s annual domestic consump-
tion of petroleum-products now exceeds


8-million tons annually, and mineral oil
is our greatest single import.
“As a result, the Australian market
offers a certain prize for a successful
oil-prospect,” Senator Spooner said.
The survey, which was prepared by
the Department of National Develop-
ment, reported that the current picture of
the mining industry was rather different
from that of the immediate post-war
years. At that time, emphasis was largely
on shortages ; today the point had been
reached where, for the moment, the term
“shortage” could scarcely apply to any
mineral at the level of world markets —
in some cases not even in relation to
national markets. Revised marketing-
conditions required some re-assessment
of the prospecting position, now and in
the immediate future, to establish some
priority of investigation.
A Government’s function was to ascer-
tain, step by step, the full mineral
resources of its country, and with limited
money and personnel at its command the
objective should be to give higher priority
to exploration for minerals in strong
demand, but reserves of which were
limited.
After oil, said the survey, phosphates
should be next in line because of the
foreseeable exhaustion of deposits in
Nauru and Ocean Island. Tin should
get third priority, followed by uranium.
The list then ran: gold, iron-ore,
chrysolite, industrial diamonds, copper,
beryl, molybdenite and then the other
minerals.
Bankrupt on Atoms
The policy now advocated by the British
Labor party and Trades Union Congress
under which they have called on the
British Government to initiate a pact
by which every nation but the United
States and Russia would abandon
nuclear weapons is one of the silliest bits
of nonsense a long-haired bundle of vote-
hunters has ever issued.
Quite obviously, if the policy were
carried out it would defeat the object for
which it was designed. The party advo-
cates maintenance of the United King-
dom’s share in Nato for the defence of
the world. It admits that nuclear defence
is vital. But it proposes when it attains
office to transfer all British nuclear effort
to peaceful purposes, hand-over any
stockpile of atom- and hydrogen - bombs
to the Americans, reduce conventional
armed forces and leave major deterrent-
defence to the United States.
The clear result of this would be to
acknowledge the world empire of Russia
and the United States and leave them to
fight it out if it came to a nuclear war.
The immediate outcome could well be
a nuclear war forthwith, since two
adversaries as distant as these two with
their populations spread over wide areas
might feel inclined to chance it. And
while the Russians do not feel ready to
tackle the world, they would certainly
be ready to tackle the United States.
Moreover, from past experience they
know the tardiness of the Americas in
getting into wars and they might hope
to expand their existing policy of
grabbing portions of the non-nuclear
world, in each case presenting America
with a fait accompli not worth nuclear
action, or in which nuclear action would
take some time to justify to Congress.
The responsibility of defending itself
to the limit of its ability rests on every
country. Every country is called on to
exploit all means in its power to defeat
an enemy which attacks it. Once it
depends on somebody else to carry-out
that first of all duties it becomes a
colony of the country on which it relies
and will gradually come to be treated as
a subject State.
Certainly no part of the British Com-
monwealth overseas would be likely to
forego its right to use every facility to
protect itself, for by surrender of that
right it would forfeit its independence.
Dog Eat Dog
The dangers inherent in the relaxation
of the laws against illegal strikes is
obvious from a contemplation of the
new techniques being used by the Com-
munists to tie-up industry and promote
chaos and disorder.
Finding it increasingly difficult to rake-
up pretexts for strikes against
employers, Communist leaders have
turned to the “demarcation-issue” and
have found it about the most productive
of trouble that has been seen for many
a year.
A classic case was that at the beginning
of the year in which the watersiders
paralysed large sections of the industry
and cost the shipowners hundreds of
thousands of pounds and put rich rewards
into the hands of half a hundred legal
counsel. The whole issue was the right
or otherwise of the watersiders of
Pinkenba, in Brisbane, to stack wheat in
a shed away from the wharf and in
the hands of an employer outside the
control of the Stevedoring Commission.
Having seen how far this kind of issue
could be used to slap-down all their
enemies and how easy it was to promote
inter-union quarrels on the issue of who
is entitled to do what work, Red leaders
are letting their heads go.
Last week, for instance, Sydney water-
front was thrown idle by a strike of
4000 watersiders trying to force a deci-
sion that they were entitled to handle
soda-ash which storemen and packers
were unloading at Glebe Island. The
strike was marked by a new policy of
intimidation, evidently organised to
frighten the packers into surrender. And
when they failed, six oversea ships,
including the P. and O. liner Stratheden
and five inter-State ships, had
nothing whatever to do with the strike,
were held up.
It is about time Governments took
notice of this new development in indus-
trial technique which has already proved
itself a boon to the disrupter and saboteur
of industry in the United Kingdom and
elsewhere, many of the union groups
having been brought to the stage at which
they live dog-eat-dog lives while the
agitators dine richly off the spoils and
the employers—the “civilian populace” in
the war between union factions —are shot
down '’defenceless in a cause in which
neither they nor the community in
general have any stake whatever.
The Australian Ingredient
[By David Adams]
There has been a fair bit of armchair
criticism and witticism about the Henry
Lawson Festival held at Grenfell
(N.S.W.) this year for the second time:
mainly around the fact that though
Henry was born at Grenfell, he was an
infant when he was taken from there to
Eurunderee.
But it has been open to any (in fact,
every) part of Australia to honor Lawson
by encouraging Australian writers ; that
Grenfell has appropriately done so is
not only a tribute to Lawson but a
tribute to the citizens of Grenfell itself.
And especially to Harold Goodwin,
secretary of the festival committee and
promoter of the whole idea.
When I drove into Grenfell on Satur-
day, June 13, at 3 p.m., the place looked
something like that most dramatic scene
from “High Noon.” The former mining
town, with Ben Hall’s Weddin Range
just to the south-west, and still possessing
much of its original charm, was deserted.
Then a float with young ladies dressed
in jaunty hats and mid-Victorian cos-
tumes drove down the road from Young ;
then another float; and I decided that
where they came from the rest of Gren-
fell must be.
It proved to be so ; they were at the
official opening of the festival at Lawson
Park, adjoining the spot where Henry
was born. They turned up as a body
again at the Lawson Concert that same
evening. It was an overflow affair,
delightful in its informality, and box-
office history was probably made when
the audience, almost as one person
and without prompting, “jumped” their
chairs a few inches forward in order to
make room for another couple of rows
at the back. It was typical of the spirit
and hospitality of the whole festival.
The concert was a combined effort
by visitors and Grenfell folk ; and an
item that will be remembered was the
verse - speaking (Lawson verse) of a
schoolgirl, winner of one of the com-
petitions. Equally impressive was the art
exhibition.
The Lawson Festival had its beginning,
under the wing of headmaster Harold J.
Goodwin, at the Grenfell high-school
two years ago. Its aims are to bring
forth the best in Australian art, music,
letters and the drama. It seeks the widest
interest and co-operation.
The festival has two excellent assets:
atmosphere and enthusiasm. And there
is a sound and urgent purpose behind it.
One of the visiting artists, Leonard
Thiele, an A.B.C. man, told the com-
mittee that in his opinion over 90 per
cent, of stories and drama published,
broadcast, staged or screened in Aus-
tralia even today is imported. So good
luck, Grenfell!


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A man aged 88 visited The Bulletin
last week and asked for Phil May
—met him years ago, and thought he’d
look him up. —“Nunk.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“8.1. K.”: Ad. in N.S.W. country
paper:
WANTED
STATION HANDICAP,
married, unfurnished cottage, electricity,
meat and milk....
There’s pessimism for you!
❖
“B”: Max Gild, of Sydney Petroleum
Information Bureau, says that having
dictated to his secretary about the six
essentials of a transport-system it came
back to him in typewriting that the sex
essentials of a transport - system were
safety, economy, reliability, frequency,
regularity and cheapness.
♦j« »!« *l*
“Tock Emma”: Asked the largest num-
ber of boarders of any school in Aus-
tralia, most of us would plump for a
school in the capital cities, but All Souls
College, up at Charters Towers (Q.),
run by the Anglican Bush Brotherhood,
tops the list with over 400 boarders.
Practically all the pupils are boarders.
* ❖
“Corio”: A Sabbath dance-club for
idle teenagers having started in our
suburb, the Sunday-school superinten-
dent asked his class what a square was.
No one knew.
“Gangway”: The quartermaster in
H.M.A. ships suppresses the ringing of
the ship’s bell with his hand after striking
the half-hour because of a superstition
that if a bell or glass is struck and is
allowed to complete its ringing, some-
where at sea a sailor dies. During War
11, if no one was handy to stop it you’d
hear some bloke mutter “Jerry, Jap or
Itie,” and this ensured that the deity
who looks after sailors knocked-off one
of the other side. Don’t ask me where
this originated or how old it is, but I
still remember the six stripes across my
backside I collected for letting a glass
ring at the Naval College, mid-’thirties.
* *
“Zake”: He came into the Sydney lane
as a brown-bomber was putting a yellow-
chalk cross on a front-tyre. Taking a
duster from the glove-box, he was wiping
“Something tells me his nibs is carrying-on with some other Women.”
the chalk-mark off when the bomber
looked back from the car in front and
said truculently: “Hey! What are you
doing?” The long-suffering one looked
at his tormentor calmly and said: “You’ll
observe that at the moment I am replacing
an easement in my wife’s wrist-watch,
but I can’t finish the job properly until
I get a pair of footprints—that’s what
I’m going to get now”—and he got in
and started-up.
“Macquarie”: Heaven knows why, but
“Have gun, will travel” is the most
quoted, misquoted and paraphrased
legend since Churchill coined: “Never
have so many. . . Service-stations
display signs: “Have gun, will grease.”
A timber company advertises: “Have
wood, will travel.” The slogan painted
on a Sydney car-dealer's premises reads:
“Have cars, will trade.” An old car
chugging along the Western Road on
the holiday weekend bore the informa-
tion on its rear: “Have bomb, hope to
travel.” And a talkative bloke on our
job walked around all day blissfully
unaware that a placard had been pinned
to the back of his overalls: “Have tongue,
will babble.”
<£♦
“Bardon”: News of perfume to spray
garbage - cans (B. 10/6/’59) coincides
with a report from Hollywood that
“Smell-O-Vision” will make its debut in
“Scent of Mystery,” a claim wide of the
mark, as I can recall many Hollywood
emanations of the past 20 years that were
very much on the nose.
❖
“Googly”: Mention of the Sultan of
Johore and his batch of typists (B.
10/6/’59) reminds me of the late Dr.
H. V. Hordern, the old - time Test-
cricketer. As he told it to me, and
omitting parts which really don’t concern
the story, he was in a steamer on which
the Sultan was also travelling with another
batch of—stenographers. The Sultan and
the doctor mated-up—and H. V. was the
sort of fellow who was entertaining with
anyone and everyone. The Sultan
appointed Hordern his aide-de-camp—
“But, damn it all, Hordern, you can’t
be my aide without a military title.”
He considered the matter for a minute
or two: “We’ll soon get over that. I
appoint you a major in the Army of
Johore.” Hordern was a major all the
time he was the Sultan’s guest.
SYDNEY
“The only word I can rhyme with ‘Sydney 7
is ‘kidney". "—Ann French, in a letter to the
“Sydney Morning Herald
Ann French’s English fails at “kidney” —
She wants another rhyme for “Sydney”:
Did Dennis use. or didn’t he, “didn ’e”?
In, rhyming awkward names like
“SydNey”
The double consonant’s forßidden Me—
But slip an editor a quid, ’n’ he
Soon forgets he’s ever chidden thee.
Or, seeking an off-rhyme for “Sydney,”
One gradually comes to “suddenly,”
But those who think such rhyming
slovenly
Prefer to say they’ve seen in Sydney
The neatest skirts that ever hid knee.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


VX7hen Queensland was granted its
* * three television - licences I calcu-
lated that I’d need about £2OO for
a receiver, plus £5 for a licence . . . But
since then I’ve been informed by a stream
of circulars that I’ll need a special antenna
(about £3O), a special color-scheme for
my TV-room (price on application),
special blinds to give the room a special
dimness (about £2O), a special service-
insurance (about £l5 a year), a special
council licence-fee for my special antenna
(amount as yet undecided), a special sur-
vey to uncover special electrical inter-
ference-sources (about £10), and a special
set of special TV lounge-chairs without
which I and my guests cannot hope to
enjoy TV in comfort (about £2O to £4O
each). Another circular hopefully sug-
gested I’d need a special, rapid, electric
cooker to prepare meals in a hurry be-
tween TV-sessions (about £25). • TV is
much more specialised than I’d realised.
Should I go ahead and invest in TV, or
should I just buy a new radiogram and
continue to go to the pictures? —“8.P.5.”
«£♦
“Maitri”: Just when we wanted tea
on Sunday, Queen’s Birthday weekend,
not a skerrick of gas could we get. Not
very optimistically, I rang the North
Shore (Sydney) gas-company. “A man
will be along within the hour,” the young
lady at the other end of the line in-
formed me; but we decided we’d be
lucky if we got any gas before Tuesday,
and started to dig-out electric and kero-
sene appliances. How wrong we were!
In less than an hour of the time of com-
plaining, not only was gas whistling
through the pipes and boiling our kettle,
but a beautiful new green meter had also
been installed.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Yakipan”: In the version we used to
play of lan Mudie’s
Here comes an old woman from Botany Bay,
And m'hat have you got to give her today ?
the answer always had to be “Pork and
Beans.” If he answered the original
question successfully, others, with little
or no bearing on the subject, would be
shot at him. In each case the answer
had to be “Pork and Beans.” It was not
as easy as it seems —and then the shame
of the forfeit if he failed: in front of
that roomful of gloating ghouls and a
few smirking parents he had to “kiss the
girl he liked the best.”
“Bagot”: May I add to lan Mudie’s
“Schoolboy Rhymes” one dedicated to
our teacher at a Kalgoorlie school early
in the century?
Old is a very good man,
He goes to church on Sunday.
And prays to God to give him strength
To whack the kids on Monday.
“Sir”: The most complete and polished
schoolboy rhyme (B. 3/6/’59) of my pre-
World War I schooldays in England was
commonly found scrawled in the general-
issue textbooks:
If there should be another flood,
For refuge hither fly;
Though all the world should be submerged,
This book would still be dry.
“Kaytee”: Notice in a North Queens-
land city's picture theatre:
The management reserves the right to
refuse admittance to persons improperly
dressed. Patrons must wear shoes.
❖ ❖
“Word-doc”: Before la Comtesse
Salmagondi (B. 10/6/’59) gets away with
the dish . . . The word is French:
Salmigondis, and it is a salmis (or ragout)
of gondis (various bits and pieces).
“Damn silly lions! I know if I Was in the cage I'd eat her!”
“Central”: Just what mileage is being
covered by taxis (the latest plate-number
I saw in Sydney was 4444) throughout
New South Wales? The amount of
petrols, oils, batteries, etc., that they use
in any 12 months, and also their repair-
bills, must be tremendous. An owner-
driver who drives in partnership with his
brother in Sydney traffic 16 hours each
day, five days a week, says he has
travelled 106,000 miles in 11 months, his
only repairs being the renewal of the
first- and second-gears —not that our taxis
haven’t still a long way to go.
+3*
“Lillydale”: Semantic licence aside,
Wilf Thomas’s soprano heroine, on page
27 of Living on Air, improving her
breath-control while lying prone balanc-
ing a glass of water on her chest, should
do better at the Tiv. than Covent Garden.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Wusslean”: During the high-school
lunch - hour my youngster bet another
lad two-bob that he couldn't take a meat-
pie fair in the face. “I'm on!” said the
other boy, and, a pie being procured, he
stood his ground stoically while it was
forcibly applied to his features. Young
Wusslean came home ruefully pondering
the evils of betting—two-bob gone west,
plus another shilling for the pie, merely
to prove he was a poor judge of character!
But the other youngster should go far—
he'll be the perfect stooge for a future
TV funnyman.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: “Jesmondene” (B.
20/5/’59) asks a lot in expecting Aus-
tralian technical colleges to teach trades-
apprentices a smattering of house-
behavior when our State schools,
primary and high, apparently couldn't
care less how badly their pupils (though
now mostly wearing schools’ insignia)
conduct themselves on the street. Parents’
responsibility? Yes; but brief weekly
lectures by headmasters to schools
assembled (as practised in G.P.S.) lend
authority in maturing minds to precepts
centred in the home.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Ex-R.S.M.”: In 1941 the C.O.
of an Army camp received a complaint
from a widow in her early forties:
a soldier had been prowling around
her house at night; there had
been footprints of Army boots in a
flower-bed under her bathroom window ;
she had caught a glimpse of a man wear-
ing uniform, and she wanted him caught!
We duly nabbed a quiet staff-sergeant
of 48, a Gallipoli veteran without a mark
against him. After questioning him, the
C.O. went off to interview the widow.
Why, yes, she had found cakes of choco-
late, boxes of matches, cigarettes and
other items in short supply on her back-
veranda .. .Yes, there had been a nice
fresh fish on several occasions and some
clothing-coupons—but she never con-
nected them with the prowler .. .Yes,
a rather fine-looking soldier with medal-
ribbons had spoken to her one day; she
didn’t want him to think she allowed
soldiers to pick her up, but had been
hoping he would find somebody to intro-
duce him ... So he was the prowler—and


he had fallen in love with her! He was a
widower? She would withdraw her com-
plaint at once. But the sergeant, who had
been ragged unmercifully by some of his
mates, applied for a transfer and left. A
little later the widow asked me to let her
have his name, number and unit. She
wanted to write to him. I obliged, but
then I was moved on to Western Aus-
tralia ; I never went back to that camp
and still don’t know if it ended happily
or not.
❖ ♦:+ *i*
“Lyn”: We love our neighbor, a real
Mrs. Malaprop. On Parents’ Day at the
school, inspecting the children’s experi-
mental plots of clover, she told us that
“this Mediterranean clover is wonderful
pasture, especially if you irritate the
ground!” Later the children performed
some precision - marching and she said
it was lovely to see all the dear little
children manceuring around. We strolled
in the gardens; she stopped beside a
patch of columbines swaying gently in
the breeze. “Ah!” she said admiringly.
“Pretty things those concubines, aren’t
they?”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Bo”: I know, from long exposure to
talkies, that it is unreasonable to expect
an actor’s face to express accurately the
feelings he may be expected to harbor.
Nevertheless, 1 still hope one day to see
some Hollywood hero, when his wife
or girl-friend hangs-up on him after a
ding-dong telephonic barney, dice the
twin looks of hurt and perplexity he
usually bends upon the innocent instru-
ment in his hand in favor of just one
long look of intense relief.
Tn a radio-interview Chips Rafferty
remarked that the Grenfell Festival
perpetrated the memory of Henry
Lawson. Seeing that he’s playing the
part of Lawson himself, he may know
what he’s talking about. —“Scotty.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sunray”: This do-it-yourself craze
certainly caters for all walks of life ; in
a city bookshop 1 noticed the title: How
to Solicit!
£+ +Z+
“P.0.M.C.”: Another ritual for annoy-
ing Chinamen (B. 10/6 / ’59) we street-
arabs exploited freely around 1906-9,
when the repercussions of the Boxer
Rebellion hadn’t quite subsided, was to
place our hats on the ground, leap over
and yell jeeringly: “England jump over
China!” When I performed this rite at
a safe distance from our pigtailed green-
grocer one summer evening, Ah Pong
sprang with startling agility from his cart,
“First time I've been Warm for months.”
brandishing the ugly chopper he used for
splitting ironbark - pumpkins, nattering
savagely the while in his own lingo. My
father, returning from work, came up
handily behind me, apologised to Ah
Pong on my behalf and, on reaching the
seclusion of our house, gave me the
belting of my life.
“Tabba”: The popularity of paper-
back editions has been deplored, but in
tropical climates the paperbacks have
another advantage than cheapness. In-
specting one of the most valuable private
libraries in Queensland I found that
many of the bound books were damaged
by borer, but no paperbacked volume was
infested. The borer, once started in the
binding, spreads into the pages of the
book, damaging the whole volume. What
the borers like in the bindings or cases,
of course, is the flour —there is no paste
in paperbacks ; only glue.
“Fairf”: New Australians are taking
to gambling; a glance at the books of
lottery-ticket vendors will reveal as many
Cuzzolinis, Poweliskis, Barancoffs, Hersh-
manns, Schzoskwis and Van Hootens, as
Smiths, Browns and Joneses. The ven-
dors, defeated by accent and jaw-breaker
name, now hand the book to the appli-
cant for him to write his name and
address himself. The system saves a lot
of headaches for the vendor, but will
send the luckless reporter rushing for
A.P.C.s if some of the writers have to
be tracked down to be informed of a
win. I remember how I puzzled over the
address written in the book above my
application. Where was Smeedfelt? An
hour later the light broke through—and
I’ve lived within two miles of Smithfield
practically all my life.
»*+
“Gabba”: It isn’t only on motorbikes
that backfires can be produced at will
(B. 29/4/’59). Just put any
motor to full revs., switch-off
the ignition, then after a
pause switch on again. The
build-up of mixture in the
pipe and muffler-box is
enough to ensure a window-
rattling bang when the next
spurt of flame comes through
the exhaust-valve. Only snag
is the cost of replacing
mufflers.
❖ *> ❖
“Alma”: It had been a
very gay wedding, and after-
wards one of the guests
made his cautious way up-
stairs, to return flustered a
few minutes later, relieved to
find a couple of his cobbers
still in the lobby of the pub.
He enlisted their help; his
room had gone astray. They
frantically searched floor
after floor of the big city pub,
looking for a number and a
lock to match his key. It
wasn’t for some time that the
first guest, considerably sobered, remem-
bered that he was staying at another hotel.
❖ *> *i*
“Ricky”: On offer at our local hard-
ware store are ladies’ lightweight garden
clippers. The thoughtful husband may
soon be able to buy an axe that will
lighten his wife’s wood-chopping chores.
<j> ►;»
“Wusslean”: The more meaningless a
phrase, the readier advertising copy-
writers are to borrow it. Maybe that’s
why they’re called copy-writers. For the
last year or so I’ve heard a petrol-co.’s
radio-spruiker plugging a wonder-
working additive “at no extra cost.”
A ballpoint-pen firm is now telling the
world that its pens are available in six
different colors “at no extra cost.” Wait
till the pubs announce beer with their
half-crown counter-lunch “at no extra
cost” —that’ll be the day!
CULTIVATING SAINTLINESS
“The growing of flowers, as has been said,
is one of man’s purest pleasures, and delin-
quency would be greatly lessened were more
youths inculcated into its charms. It is, after
all, hard to imagine a criminal gardener.”—
Horticultural magazine.
Collectors of stamps
Or the handles of gamps,
The chaps who prefer to read thrillers ;
The tough mountaineer ;
One whose hobby is beer,
They’re all of them possible killers.
The cove who keeps chooks,
Who loves binding books
Or in problems of fretwork to revel —
It’s likely that these,
With the greatest of ease
Could toboggan straight down to the
Devil!
But gardeners—they
Can’t be tempted to stray,
Don’t even get temperamental.
Perhaps it’s the need
To yank up every weed
That makes ’em so kindly and gentle.
Of all sin you’ll purge
Yourself when the urge
Comes on you to wed Horticulture,
A pastime so pure,
It simply must cure
The hell-hound, the villain, the vulture !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


The Gardan of Ships
By DOUGLAS STEWART
Even so deep in the jungle they were not
safe.
The stars still glittered round them like
barbed wire
But more than ' that, fantastic below the
cliff,
A lantern filled a tree with orange
fire
Like a great tropical flower, one window’s
gleam
With a round yellow eye stared up at
them.
If it was another village of the dog-faced
people
As seemed most likely, no one ran out
to bark ;
And the tree seemed bare and tapering,
more like a steeple
Where the light like a golden bell rocked
in the dark.
Was it the mast of a ship ? —impossibly
lost
Here in the forest, mile upon mile from
the coast ?
They could climb down and creep on it
through the jungle
For lights meant men, and men meant
water and food
And they were thirsty enough, and they
were hungry ;
But when had the lights of men ever
brought them good ?
Not in these evil islands, not in these
times ;
But years ago, it seemed, in the country
of dreams.
All night long they talked about it in
whispers. «
They would have liked to sleep, for they
had come far
By burning and naked seas, by sliding
rivers,
By islands smouldering still with the
smoke of war
Or shrouded in steam, to reach this ridge
at last ;
But how could they sleep with that strange
light on the mast ?
And sometimes water glimmered, some-
times it seemed
That ranging away from the lantern, tree
by tree
Or mast by mast, whole fleets of vessels
gleamed
Faint in the starshine where no ships
could be.
And in the morning they were ships
indeed!
It was amazing. Marco Polo said.
Speaking of his own travels to that island,
How in its surging current that coil of
the ocean
Seized on the wandering ships and
dragged them inland
And leaping upon the hills in white
explosion
Tore by their roots the tall trees out of
the jungle
And up the long gulf, in one vast helpless
tangle,
Swept ships and trees together until the
timber
Walled them all in and held them in its
grip
So none could escape; and there they
lay forever
While many a merchant mourned his
missing ship.
But what was more amazing, though for
that matter
Likely enough to happen with trees and
water,
Was how while the ships lay still as they
did now,
High-decked, tall-masted, flotsam from all
the seas,
Junks from old China, sampan, Arabian
dhow,
Galleon and barque, Dutch, English,
Portuguese,
Their anchors green with moss, their
sails all furled,
Never again to ride the waves of the
world,
That wall of trees, as silt filled up the
shallows,
Took root again and stood up tall and
green
And taller grew and flung their leafy
shadows
From ship to ship with flowering vines
between,
Hanging the masts with such enchanting
burden v.
It seemed the fleet was anchored in a
garden.
And there were gardeners too —that was
the thing,
Piercingly strange, that Moved the
watchers most ;
Far down, unseen, they heard a woman
sing,
She might have been a bird there, or a
ghost;
But windows opened, plumes of smoke
rose up,
Brown men in sarongs walked about each
ship
And all the jungle rang with children’s
laughter ;
And they saw too, not least of many
solaces,
Where bridges joined the ships across the
water,
Bare-breasted girls who walked among
the trellises
Or white and golden, fair as waterlilies,
Plunged in the pools and swam with
gleaming bodies.
So, ragged and bony, wild-eyed with
war and fever,
They came down out of the jungle to
the clearing.
And truly they thought they could lie
down there for ever,
Feasting on fruit, drinking the palm-wine,
hearing
The laughter qnd the music, the lap of
the tide
Stealing so far from the sea to the ship’s
side.
And those soft voices telling the old
stories
Of how they had lived on the ships for
generations,
And if the dog-faced people on their
forays
Chanced on their haven, people of all
the nations
Living in peace together untouched by
the world,
They lifted up their dog-faced heads and
howled
And fled, thinking them spirits. So too,
long after
When the war and all their journeying
turned to a dream,
Like a wild, vision they had seen in their
fever,
Even to these two wanderers did they
seem ;
For calling them always with its clear
compulsion,
Somewhere over the mountains, across
the ocean,
With its broad golden fields, its urgent
cities,
Its ports where ships still sailed on what-
ever venture,
Their homeland lay; and though like
waterlilies
The fair girls swam and the birds sang
in rapture
And the old ships dreamed in the jungle :
even so,
Now they were strong they could reach
it, and they must go.


POLITICAL POINTS
On Friday Premier Cahill passed Sir
Bertram Stevens’s record of seven years
two months and 24 days as Premier of
N.S.W., and was congratulated by,
among others, the former record-holder.
In terms of Ministerial and Parliamentary
service Cahill had long ago outdistanced
the former U.A.P. Premier. He was first
elected to the N.S.W. Assembly in 1925
and except for a three-year gap, 1932-35,
has been there ever since, representing
in turn St. George, Arncliffe and (since
1941) Cook’s River.
Cahill became Minister for Public
Works in the McKell Government in
1941 and for eight years from 1944
doubled that job with Local Government.
Deputy-Premier in 1949, he succeeded
Jim McGirr in the top job on April 2,
1952.
During his record term Cahill has had
more than one close call, but on every
occasion has outwitted his opponents
both inside and outside his party. .
So much for the Doc’s last
word on unity-tickets: the
unity - ticket defiantly con-
ducted in the Victorian A.R.U.
election has resulted in the
A.L.P. - Communist bracket
winning the chief offices, in-
creasing their seats on the
State Council from 24 to 34
and their conference delegates
from 47 to 54 ; the groupers
even lost their Ballarat repre-
sentation, held by a moderate
for 15 years.
Even the groupers have found Bert
too heavy a burden to carry in an
election.
• •
[From Canberra]
Acting Prime Minister McEwen achieved the
seemingly impossible at the Premiers’ Con-
ference in getting the six States to agree
unanimously to a new basis of calculating their
share of lax reimbursements.
And Treasurer Holt, chairing his first meet-
ing of the Loan Council, also brought off a
sweeping victory by sending the Premiers away
actually contented with what they received.
After Premiers Cahill and Playford had pro-
tested against the Commonwealth’s original
proposals McEwen said he wasn’t adopting a
“take it or leave it” attitude and was prepared
to listen to reason. He did, indeed, take the
two complainants into his suite for a man-to-
man discussion.
When Conference reassembled, McEwen
announced that both N. S. Wales and South
Australia had put a reasonable case to the
Commonwealth, which was prepared to give
them another £1 million each.
Everyone was happy, except Acting Premier
of Victoria Rylah, b'ut after Harold Holt had
appealed for unanimity and some strong
lobbying had taken place during the dinner-
adjournment, Rylah joined the rest of the
Premiers to record a unanimous vote.
McEwen was supremely happy to have pulled
off such a stunning win.
Acceptance of the scheme was a victory for
Cabinet, which devised it, but it was a much
bigger victory for McEwen, who introduced it,
extended the States a degree of latitude and
completely won them over to his way of
thinking.
It was also a feather in the cap of Tas-
mania’s Labor Premier Reece, whose idea of
amalgamating the formula-grant and supple-
mentary-grants was accepted and incorporated
in the Commonwealth’s scheme.
• •
As a result of the new formula for
Federal-State tax-reimbursements South
Australia will cease to be a claimant
State for special grants—after nearly 30
years since its first claim for “disabilities”
was granted. At the Premiers’ Con-
ference, after his request for a bit more
had produced another £1 million, Premier
"P'raps they didn't hear me."
Playford asked for the privilege of
moving the acceptance of the new
formula in recognition of the fact that
his State was “no longer claimant for
special aid.” He recalled that at one of
the first Premiers’ Conferences he ever
attended the then Prime Minister had
mentioned that “the Commonwealth
recognised that South Australia would
never advance beyond the status of a
mendicant State.”
No one deserves more credit than
Playford himself for the change in the
status of his State.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: With no more excuse than
the fact that I was incubating an attack
of shingles when I wrote my par. (B.
24/6/’59) about the departure of the
Russians from Canberra I referred to
the then First Secretary as “Vishinsky.”
It’s a famous Russian name, certainly,
but the bloke who threw me the pennies
in Canberra was called Vishlik. My
apologies to the shade of the Soviet’s
deceased representative at U.N.
• •
A retired Sydney builder intends to go
back on the job again to prove that
current building-costs are too high. Using
an American design for low-cost building,
with principally brick and glass as his
materials, he hopes to complete a house
of 12} squares within eight weeks and
to keep the cost down to about £3OO a
square, compared with £4OO a square
commonly charged. Gordon Leech, of
Cronulla, is the man, and when the house
is finished he will auction it in aid of
sub-normal children.
• «
Victorian Communist E. F. Hill, who
attended the 21st Congress of the Com-
munist party in Moscow, gave Sydney
comrades, as reported in the “Tribune,”
“a breath-taking picture of life in the
Soviet Union.” One of the items which
presumably took the breath of his audi-
ence was that “Every day 3000 Soviet
families receive a key to a new flat.” At
that rate Russia must be building
1,095,000 homes a year—which is a con-
siderable performance, but by no means
breath-taking. On a population basis,
Australia would have tp build 54,750
homes a year to equal it. Last year the
. Australian figure was 79,927 houses and
flats. Neither Hill nor any other comrade
found that at all breath-taking. Most
of ’em protested that the figure was
disgracefully low.
• •
(From Canberra]
The appointment of W. H. Anderson, of
Melbourne, to the Commonwealth Bank Board
has caused some very raised eyebrows among
political observers. In announcing the appoint-
ment, Treasurer Holt gave a brief precis of
Anderson’s career —his long association with
the Shell Company of Aust., and his research
activities of the Australian Industries Develop-
ment Association. What he did not state was
that Anderson was Federal president of the
Liberal party from 1951 to 1956.
Members of the present Government, when
in Opposition, were quick to attack appoint-
ments by the Labor Government of past Labor
servants to high public posts. Now, with the
position reversed, the Government cannot squeal
if it comes in for its share of criticism.
The other vacancy on the board, which will
control the new Reserve Bank, taking over
the functions of the Central Bank, is Sir Leslie
Melville, Vice-Chancellor of the Australian
National University, who was Economic
Adviser to the Bank from 1931 to 1950 and
was a member of the old Commonwealth Bank
Board until 1953.
Treasurer Holt also announced the appoint-
ment of seven men to fill the vacancies on
the board of the Commonwealth Banking
Corporation, which will operate the Common-
wealth Trading, Savings and Development
Banks.
They are Sir Albert Axon, Chancellor of
the Queensland University; R. G. Baxter, war-
time Director of Industrial Welfare in the
Department of Labor; H. N. Giles, managing-
director of Elder Smith and Co., of Adelaide;
E. T. Loton, chairman of the Westralian
Farmers Co-op., Ltd., Perth; G. H. Rush-
worth, chairman of directors of Lever Asso-
ciated Enterprises, Ltd.; Sir Francis Selleck,
former Lord Mayor of Melbourne; and A. B.
Taylor, managing-director of Email, Sydney.


The Communist-controlled Building
Workers’ Union has sent a protest “on
behalf of 40,000 workers” over police-
action in Durban against the native-beer
strikers. The rank-and-file are never
told about these things till afterwards.
It’s part of the principle of democratic
centralism that they do what they are
told and have their opinions framed for
them.
• •
Melbourne City Engineer estimates that
in the next five years the number of cars
on the roads in Melbourne will increase
by one-third, suburban-train passengers
will remain the same, and tram-travellers
will drop by about 12 per cent. He has
recommended a scheme of staggered
hours for businesses, offices and Govern-
ment departments to ease the transport
problem.
He recommends the white-collar
workers for the changed hours because
“the very desirable feature —later open-
ing and closing of shops—seems difficult
to achieve at this stage,” which is a
diplomatic manner of evading the com-
ment that the shop-assistants went to
work very successfully on Liberal back-
benchers when a change in shop-hoyrs
was advocated. No doubt the white-
collar brigade will be equally persuasive.
• •
Cahill has wisely rejected Opposition-
leader Morton’s suggestion of a joint
approach to the Federal Government
seeking the establishment in N.S.W. of
a migrant-reception centre similar to that
at Bonegilla (Vic.). Morton’s idea was
that this might result in N.S.W. getting
a bigger proportion of permanent New
Australians than was now the case. There
would be no sense in the Federal Govern-
ment duplicating Bonegilla, which is
capable of handling, the whole of the
present intake of non-British migrants,
merely because of the fancied grievance
of one State. To make the request would
simply be asking for a rebuff.
• •
Ivan Kurdyukov, former Soviet Charge
d’Affaires in Peking and, since 1955, head
of the Far Eastern Department of the
Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will
be the new Russian Ambassador in
Canberra.
• •
Veteran ex-Prime Minister, ex-
Treasurer, ex-Leader of the Country
party Sir Earle Page left Sydney last
Wednesday for Japan. He’s off to
England the long way round —with stops
at Japan, Hong Kong and Pakistan—
to attend the Commonwealth Education
Conference at Oxford, opening on July
15. In September he’s due in Montreal
for the World Medical Conference. In
between these two affairs he intends to
conduct a private drive to sell Australia
as a field for investment for British
industrialists. At 78 he’s still a pretty
live-wire salesman.
• •
“Waiego”: Is any information avail-
able in Canberra about the London report
that 100-million dollars, of which half
will come from the U.S. Steel Corpora-
tion and the rest from Dutch capital,
is about to be invested in Dutch New
Guinea to exploit nickel- and chrome-
deposits in the Cycloop Mountains
(bordering Australian N.G.) and in
Waiego Island?
• •
Prospects for the Republicans at the
U.S. Presidential elections next year are
becoming bleaker. It is frightening that
local politics should so fully dominate
the United States scene that majorities
miss no chance to discredit the Eisen-
hower Administration when the strength
of the nation needs to be most united.
Last week both Houses of Congress con-
tributed to the undermining. The Senate
refused to endorse the President's nomi-
nation of Lewis Strauss, erstwhile chair-
man of the Atomic Energy Commission,
as Secretary for Commerce, and the
House cut down the foreign-aid budget
by £ 163 m. And the Senate majority was
provided by two Republicans!
• •
The announcement by N.S.W. Minister
for Labor and Industry J. J. Maloney
that the State Arbitration Act will be
amended in order to debar such organisa-
tions as the New Citizens’ Council from
being registered as a trade-union seems
rather high-handed. As the Act stands
any body of seven or more persons may
be registered as a trade-union if its con-
stitution doesn’t conflict with the require-
ments of the law. This seems reasonable
and adequate, but the proposed amend-
ment will forbid the recognition as trade-
unions of any organisations whose mem-
bers’ interests are covered by existing
unions.
Generally speaking it is desirable that
New Australians should join existing
unions rather than form exclusive new
ones. That is a viewpoint which should
be made clear to all new citizens. But
to forbid them to form unions is going
too far. And it shouldn't be overlooked
that many European migrants have,
understandably, a conscientious objection
to joining a Communist-dominated union.
• •
W. C. Wurth, chairman of the N.S.W.
Public Service Board, has initiated a back-
to-public-transport drive among public
servants. He has told all departments that
air-transport should only be used in cases
of extreme urgency ; in all other cases
go-by-train is to be the rule.
• •
Victorian Cabinet has no fears for the
future of the State Public Service. Within
the next five years the Government will
build a 21-story £3-million office-block
behind the Treasury building, and a
13-story £2-million block on the corner
of Queen and Latrobe Streets. Currently
the Government is spending nearly
£160,000 a year on rents for offices in
different parts of Melbourne with, accord-
ing to Acting-Premier Rylah, officers
running backwards and forwards with
files, documents and correspondence.
It’s strange to hear a Government
admitting to “enormous expansion in
departments”—the reason given for the
expensive skyscrapers—but it is true new
Government accommodation is needed in
Melbourne. The large, lofty rooms of
the Treasury and its official neighbors,
designed for stately gentlemen sitting in
state, have been so divided and shared
they now look like a New Australian
superior rooming-house.
• •
Stanhill Holdings, Ltd., the Stanley
Korman enterprise which owns the
Chevron hotels, has formed a new sub-
sidiary, Stanhill-Australia House Incor-
porated, which has paid a deposit on a
building with a 154 ft. frontage on Fifth
Avenue and 43rd Street, New York, in
which the basement, ground, first and
second floors will be reserved for the
exclusive sale or display of Australian-
made goods.
Australian architects will re-design the
building to give it an Australian 100k —
that may prove a tall order, as most of
the styles of our commercial buildings
are borrowed from the successes of
London and New York —and if it is
profitable, other buildings for the display
of Australian goods will be opened in
London, Asia and Europe.
• •
Not long ago the Cahill Govern-
ment announced that it would lower the
minimum ceiling-height for houses and
flats from nine to .eight feet, thus appre-
ciably reducing the cost of building the
average home This change had been
advocated by architects and the building-
industry for years, but had been opposed
by many municipal councils. Last week
the Government decided that the new
minimum would apply only where slag-
wool or other suitable insulating material
was included in the ceiling. Presto!
Away goes the expected saving in costs.
• •
Victorian Motor Transport Union,
alert to the official pressure on Cabinet
to bring in compulsory blood-tests, has
resolved to oppose them on the ground
that, while they may establish the amount
of alcohol a man has consumed, they
cannot allow for “an individual's reaction
to alcohol” —or, in the language of their
fathers, his “capacity to carry his liquor.”
• •
While TV-licences are bringing more
grist to the P.M.G.’s mill, TV, by cutting
attendances at picture-theatres, is hitting
State revenue from entertainments - tax.
Acting-Premier Rylah told the Premiers’
Conference that picture-theatre audiences
in Melbourne dropped by 15 per cent,
last year and another 25 p.c. this year.
In the past two years 26 theatres in
Victoria had closed - down. Rylah sug-
gested that it might be wise to give some
concessions in entertainments - tax for
picture-shows, “in an endeavor to keep
this tax-field alive.”


Personal
ITEMS
Long association with the pastoral in-
dustry has qualified E. H. Lee-Steere,
of Toodyay (W.A.), for his election to
presidency of the Westralian Pastoralists’
Association. Well known as a breeder
of Shorthorn cattle, he owns Hawthorn-
den, near Toodyay, and Limestone Park,
near Gingin, besides having interests in
several other large pastoral properties.
He’s also vice-president of the W.A. Turf
Club and a councillor of the W.A. Royal
Agricultural Society. His father, Sir
Ernest Lee Steere, was a member of the
original committee of the W.A. Pas-
toralists’ Association, and president from
1920-33.
• •
“Shibli Bagarag”: Bernard Magee, one
of N.Z.'s oldest contributors to The
Bulletin, died in Christchurch a few
days ago, aged 80. His pen-name
“Uramao” represented the name of his
birthplace in reverse. A Digger of War
1, he worked for the Oamaru “Mail” for
50 years and in his spare time wrote
many articles and pars for papers in
N.Z. and Australia. [There were still
several pars, from him for these pages
in the latest mail from New Zealand.]
• •
“Aide”: Edgar Barton Coles (B.
17/6/’59) is, of course, the second knight
in the family—brother George having
been honored some years back. A
councillor of the Victorian R.A.S., the
latest knight is squire of a model dairy-
farm at Mount Eliza, and is also an
assiduous and efficient steward at the
Royal Melbourne Show, though no doubt
he’s better known at the Shows for his
lead in putting value back in the sample-
bag. In 1956 the Coles stand produced
a bag to end all sample-bags, starting a
near-riot among the patrons and a
fashion that other firms had to follow.
Sir Edgar is a keen member of the R.A.S.
council’s public-relations committee, and
his long reach —he stands over 6ft. —
makes him a first-class fielder, always in
demand lor the annual Council v. Staff
cricket-match.
• •
The Birthday Honors added an 0.8. E.
to the M.C. won by W. S. Lonnie, of
Perth, with the 2/43rd Battalion in the
Islands, and the M.V.O. he gained for
his work in organising the Queen’s tour
of Westralia. A member of the Westra-
lian Premier’s Department, he’s been State
president of the R.S.L. since 1956, and
is a lieut.-colonel in the C.M.F.
• •
“A.L.D.”: Dr. Brian Piper, former
Australian Test Rugby Union fullback,
has joined the somewhat select band who
have graduated in both medicine and
dentistry. A member of the 1947-48
Wallaby team to Britain, and fullback
in the first post-war Wallaby side to tour
N.Z., he qualified first as a dentist, and
recently took his medical degree.
• •
Herewith, Leo Dobbie, new manager
of the Bank of New South Wales in
Suva and supervisor for Fiji. Of Scottish
ancestry (records show that the family
turns-out good bowlers and good
generals), Dobbie was born in Sydney
BANKER IN FIH
and joined the Wales here in 1927. His
next stop was London, where he spent
nine years, including the War II period,
in which he was with the East Surrey
Home Guard. Back in Sydney again,
he had a turn as assistant to the chief-
inspector, then was at Brisbane and
Wagga (N.S.W.), before becoming
assistant-manager at the Melbourne office,
till posted to Suva.
• •
Melbourne's leading veteran trainer,
Fred Hoysted, has trained so many
winners that a ready-reckoner would be
required to get a true total, and last week
he collected the Melbourne Racing Club’s
prize of a £l5O cheque for winning the
club’s trainers’ premiership, adding one
more to the tally of prizes collected for
his training-skill. For a couple of decades
he has been first or second in Victoria.
The Hoysteds, who mostly come from
the Wangaratta district, are probably
Victoria’s best-known racing family, cer-
tainly its most numerous, and have been
owning or training horses almost as long
as there has been racing in Victoria.
Fred himself, who usually judges the
Royal Show thoroughbreds, is on the
race-tracks a master with two-year-olds.
One helpful theory in his winning so
many races with them is that it's better
to win a couple of minor events for an
owner who has paid a long price for a
yearling than merely to have hopes about
next year’s Melbourne Cup.
• •
“Judee”: Celebrating his diamond-
jubilee in his 89th year, with his 90th
birthday due in October, the Very Rev.
V. F. Peters, R.C. Vicar-General of the
Maitland (N.S.W.) diocese, was ordained
in 1899. Originally he started as
a grocer’s boy in the same Hunter River
territory (at Newcastle), subsequently
going to Ireland to study at St. Patrick’s
College, Tipperary ; the only Australian
there. He’s parish-priest of Hamilton,
where he built the Sacred Heart Church.
• •
A thousand representative Melburnians
attended the memorial service at Scots
Church in Melbourne for Sir lan Clunies-
Ross ; they heard the Master of Ormond
College, the Rev. Professor J. D.
McCaughey, who conducted the service,
admirably sum-up the lifework of the
former chairman of the C.5.1.R.0. when
he said: “He gave himself to the God-
given task of bringing nature out of its
state of futility into the service of man-
kind.”
The great scientist’s splendid achieve-
ments are known to most Australians.
Abroad he was recognised chiefly for his
work or assistance to the correction of
trace-element deficiencies as a major
factor in restoring soil-fertility, myxo-
matosis, and the overcoming of diseases
and pests of sheep and cattle. Scientists
believe these were the chief grounds for
his award of the gold-medal of the Royal
Agricultural Society of England in 1956.
He was the first Australian so honored.
Lately he had been greatly concerned
to reduce the time-lag between research-
discoveries and practical application, and
to get notable young scholars into the
sciences. He was a rare scientist, so
keen to publicise the new world of
knowledge that he was ready to talk to
any worth-while audience at the drop of
a hat. His friends have no doubt he
overtaxed himself.
• •
After four years as managing-director
of the refinery at Kwinana (W.A.), Alick
E. Mason is retiring from the board of
B.P. Australia and returning to Britain.
First holder of the Australian appoint-
ment, he took part in the negotiations
with the Federal and Westralian Govern-
ments which led to the refinery. His
successor, refineFy-manager L. B. Gas-
coigne, is no stranger to this kind of
work, having joined the former Anglo-
Persian Oil Co. in 1940 and served in
Persia for 14 years, as well as in the
U.S., and as project-manager for the
B.P. group's refinery in Kent.
• •
Having turned 84, Alfred Yeates is
giving up the W.A. presidency of the
South African and Imperial Veterans’
Association, which he’s held for the past
six years. Born in Kent, Yeates joined


the Royal Artillery at 16 and served at
Gibraltar and in north-west India before
taking his discharge. He rejoined from
the reserve, in 1899, went to South Africa
with the siege-train, was transferred, with
his unit, to China on the outbreak of the
Boxer rising, and then returned to South
Africa for the remainder of the Boer War.
He came to Westralia in 1912, and was
running a vineyard in the Swan Valley
when War I broke out. After a spell of
instructional work, he went overseas as
R.S.M. of the old 44th Battalion, and
was invalided home after being severely
wounded at Villers-Bret. In War II a
captain on censorship-duties at Western
Command Headquarters, he was R.A.S.
State president in W.A. from 1933-42,
W.A. representative on the Common-
wealth Dried Fruits Control Board, and
chairman of the Royal Commission on
Group Settlement and Dairying (1932).
Awarded the 0.8. E. (1938).
• • -
“Uramao”: The welcome given by the
Maoris to young Abel Tasman was a
bit different from that which greeted his
ancestor 317 years ago, when the natives’
hostility scared the tiny Dutch vessel off
after four of the crew had been killed.
The Maoris who gave their traditional
challenge to young Abel at the Memorial
Plinth at Golden Bay included three who
were descendants of those who attacked
the first Abel Tasman’s expedition, and
when young Abel was created a “Kiwi”
he rubbed noses (traditional sign of
friendship) with Maori women across the
memorial inscribed with the names of
the Dutchmen killed in 1642.
L. W. H. BUTTS, Brisbane solicitor,
past-president of the Queensland Law
Society and member of its council since
1946. He’s also a director of four com-
panies, and is treasurer of the St. John
Council for Queensland. With the 2nd
A.I.F., he ended as lieut.-colonel, with
O.B.E. and a couple of “mentions.”
In yarning at The Bulletin office,
when he called while on a flying visit
to Sydney, it came out that Melbourne
contributor Geoffrey Brett chose one of
his pseudonyms “Yakipan,” Japanese
for toast—-as a play on his surname.
An interpreter of the Jap lingo, he’s
English, was Thomas Cook’s manager
in Shanghai when War II broke-out, and
before that had been “the man from
Cook’s” in Hong Kong and Japan. On
the outbreak he joined the British forces
for service in Singapore ; his Australian
wife got out in the last ship to leave
there, but he himself spent the rest of
the war as a p.-0.-w. in Changi. After
release he came to Australia to fetch his
wife, went back to Shanghai until the
office there shut-down, and then came
to settle permanently in Melbourne,
where he works with the Tasmanian
Government Tourist Bureau.
■ • •
The youngish group of Melbourne
architects who have been able to find
an answer to all-their problems except
the awful mouthful of their firm-name—
Yuncken, Freeman Brothers, Griffiths and
Simpson have won the 1959 R. S.
Reynolds Memorial Award for the most
significant work using aluminium as an
important contributing factor: the
Sidney Myer Music Bowl.
The American Institute of Architects,
in the citation to the award, names Barry
Patten as being most responsible for the
design, and he’s the one who’s gone
to New Orleans to receive the award
and a sculptured emblem at 31, a
wonderful windfall, especially in a pro-
fession where recognition is often delayed.
The Bowl has had a ringing kick-off.
It was instantly accepted by the public,
delighting the Myer family, who have
been as successful in their benefactions
as they have been commercially.
• •
“Benroy”: Using his parishioners’ gift
of £l5O to provide a Christmas treat for
the local aborigines (B. 17/6/’59) was
typical of Canon Collick. During his
ministry on the W.A. goldfields at the
turn of the century he was one of the
best-loved men and, reputedly, one of
the worst-dressed. As the outstanding
protagonist of the abos., he would
literally give them clothes from his back.
“They need them more than I,” was how
he'd answer the protests of friends. “I’ll
get more somehow; they can’t.” The
aborigines almost worshipped him. After
service in France with the 44th Battalion,
he was at Tidworth on H.Q., A.I.F.
Depots in the U.K. An excellent
raconteur, he drew freely on his
experiences in the Boer War and on the
goldfields.
• •
Most organists who have visited Aus-
tralia have been venerable gentlemen,
stooped through long years of bending
over the keyboard ; so it was a surprise
to find Pierre Cochereau, organist of
Notre Dame de Paris, a comparatively
young man bounding with vitality. A
pupil of Marcel Dupre (remembered for
the wizardry of his playing here in 1939)
and a product of the Paris Conservatory,
Cochereau won the Harriet Cohen Bach
Organ Medal before graduating to be-
ORGANIST FROM FRANCE
come organist at Saint Roch and later
director of the French National Con-
servatorium (1951).
Now touring all State capitals for the
A.8.C., Cochereau is rated as one of
the world’s finest improvisers. One con-
certo he will introduce here has only
the part for orchestra written-down ; the
part for organ he will compose on the
spot. His hobby? Building organs!
• •
Into the Silence:
At Rotorua (N.Z.), at 71, George Walker,
who won the heavyweight, light-heavyweight
and middleweight wrestling championships at
the White City Games in London in 1911.
At Denmark (W.A.), the Ven. E. H. Strugnell,
former Anglican Archdeacon of Perth. Born
in England, he was ordained in the diocese
of Brisbane, and ministered there and in
Melbourne before changing to Westralia.
At Geelong (Vic.), at 53, Loris Solomon,
governing-director of Solomons Pty., Ltd.
While serving with the R.A.N. in War 11 he
gave a good sort of helping hand to Lord
Louis Mountbatten, pulling him out of the
sea when H.M.S. Kelly was sunk off Crete.
At Caloundra (Q.), Winifred, widow of Sir
Leslie Wilson (Governor of Queensland,
1932-46).
In Brisbane, at 87, Percy Brennan Reay,
journalist in three States and a foundation-
member of the AJ.A. His short-story “The
Breaking of the Drought” was made (in 1903)
into one of the first Australian films. A Light-
horseman in the Boer War, he also served
in War I.
At Boyup (W.A.), at 54, Patrick McMahon
Glynn, grazier. His father, a member of the
first Commonwealth Parliament, was chief
mover in having the blessing of God invoked
in the preamble to the Australian Constitution.
At Tarawa (Gilbert Islands), Father Eugene
Choblet, after 54 years in the Pacific mission-
field. He contracted leprosy in 1929, and
from 1938-55 worked at the Makogai Leper
Centre.
In Sydney, at 73, Mick Hawkins, trainer
and friend of Les Darcy.
At Inverell (N.S.W.), at 84, Major Luke Bice,
who went to the Boer War with the Bushmen
and to War I with the 7th Light Horse.
Wounded on Gallipoli, he was back at the
evacuation, and later served in Palestine.


THERE IS A GULLY
(From “In My Land Now”)
In my land now
there is a gully where the black-oak shows
a store of fruit like small green roses
dipped
in apricot. And, thick on the rough bark,
the lichens, grey and green, lift dark
brown cups.
The wind there sounds like that vast,
ghostly sea
that haunts the silent night upon the
plains,
and man looks back into antiquity
where all the fossils in the rocks once
lived,
and no man was. Now there the cuckoo
shrike
has built a nest, safe in that distant place
where no one goes save euros and,
perhaps,
those few rock-wallaby, those very few,
chased back into a jumble of the rocks,
who are the last of their long-hunted
tribe.
The cat-birds babble in the native pine
And shake a cloud of sulphur pollen down
on Nephila whose golden web is spread
to east and west, as if some magic lay
in setting it. Perhaps the yellow moth
and that blue, splendid butterfly that rides
the golden cassias in the spring may fall
unthinking in her net when flying out
into the rich enchantments further north.
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.
ABORIGINALITIES
A pparently some progress is being
made by missionaries in Papua.
Some six years ago, when I was on an
island east of Samarai, one of them per-
formed three marriages simultaneously:
Peter with Frances, John with Sarah and
Thomas with Florence. Four years later
the situation was as follows: Peter was
living with Sarah, with one child by John
and one by Peter ; John was living with
Florence, with two children by Thomas
and one by John ; Thomas was living
with Frances, with no issue. The latest
reshuffle has thrown them back to the
original pairings. Peter and Frances have
one of John’s and Florence’s children
and one of Peter’s and Sarah’s ; John
and Sarah have John’s child by Sarah ;
Thomas and Florence have the two
children of Thomas and Florence. All
are happy, and have been taken back into
the Christian fold. —“Daika.”
* V * *
“Spinifex”: I met Henry Lawson once
—and shook hands with him twice, at
his suggestion. I called at the old
Bulletin office to see Frank Fox. Having
passed Cerberus at the gateway on the
stairs, I encountered Frank just as he
was leaving his den. “Go in and sit
down,” he said. “I’ll be back in a minute.”
Henry was already there. When Frank
returned he said: “Don’t you fellows,
know each other?” I said, “Well, I was
just thinking that portrait in the Art
Gallery is a pretty good one. ” Frank
introduced us and we shook hands ; then
Frank said: “You’d know him by
another name, Henry. That’s Spinifex.”
Henry up-ended himself with a smile.
“I didn’t know you were one of the mob,”
he said. “That being so, we’ll shake
again.” And we did.
Hs * * *
-“Eldaob”: Noted Puss’s reactions to
coming upon two frogs. The first, a small
grey, turned-on what was presumably
intended to be an intimidating perfor-
mance, with bloated body, glaring eyes
and ear-splitting shrieks, all of which
merely provoked Puss to greater pugilistic
efforts. The other frog, one of the stolid,
green, barnacle-encrusted variety, endured
a few right uppercuts and left hooks with
“ Don't shoot — I'm extinct!"
magnificent disregard, limbs rigid and
eyes closed. The fummy lost interest
and left in disgust, whereupon the inani-
mate one cautiously. cocked an eye, had
a quick gander, then hopped away.
* * * *
“Emel”: For years on a farm in the
Mallee (Vic.) a goanna named Stumpy
(half his tail missing) shared meat-bones
and milk with the dogs, which, though
they would attack any other go., recog-
nised his right to a free run of the place,
with winter quarters under the chaff-shed,
from where I he would emerge to sun
himself as weather permitted. Stumpy
wasn’t always satisfied with his daily
ration of two eggs, but, however tempted
to raid the fowlhouse, at the owner’s
bellowed “Back there, Stumpy! ” he
would (reluctantly) retreat.
* * * *
“R.L.”: Tassie scallop-eaters got a
shock this year when the price was
bumped-up—and fishmongers got another
when the buying-public resisted strongly.
The fishermen’s co-operative, financed by
the Government, claimed the rise was
due to mainland buyers’ being prepared
to pay more than home-grown customers,
conveniently overlooking that packing-
and freight-costs add to the mainland
price. Smart sellers find that scallops
can absorb about a quarter of a tin of
water overnight. This “fattening” pro-
cess is highly lucrative* but disastrous to
the consumers, who find that, when
cooked, these scallops shrink to the size
of peas. Another trick practised is the
halving of large-sized scallops by fish-
and-chip merchants, who sell them by the
dozen.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: Touching on “The Leich-
hardt Legend” (B. 10/6/’59), Oscar de
Satje must have been a very young man
at the time of the 1846 expedition. Some
25 years later he and James Milson were
joint-owners of Coreena station, near
Aramac. He was at Coreena when he
inherited the title of Viscount de Satje
(together with a considerable estate) and
returned to England. Milson and de Satje,
both keen racing-men, often competed
in friendly rivalry with my father. After
de Satje’s return to England he sent my
father a handsome stop-watch (by
Bennett’s, of London) with solid - gold
monogrammed hunting-case. It is now
in the possession of my son. The district
around Aramac had other links —or
supposed links with Leichhardt. The
country (and I think the electorate) was
called Leichhardt, and a holding a few
miles south of Aramac (not to be con-
fused with Leichhardt Downs, near Cler-
mont) bore the name. The areas near


, ■ as ■ ,* **•”****’
r„„ wefee e " s '"s“’ 5 “’ '
, r *e»rr Be
<***,._
_ f&L 6 ° e °" SS 7^
ee °«e of <^ Sc - ,
G£ *ts.


Aramac were so named because of the
finding of the remnants (mostly the iron-
work) of a very old dray. In the absence
of any other explanation, the dray was
thought to have belonged to the 1848
Leichhardt expedition. I recall seeing,
as a boy—in about 1890 —a heap of
yellow bones lying on a cornsack in a
cell at the Aramac police-station. The
skeleton had been found on the (Aramac)
Leichhardt run. It was thought to be
that of a white man, one of the party
to whom the dray had belonged. All
conjecture, but it could be that those
bones were all that was left of old Ludwig
himself.
* * * *
“Alma”: Straight-backed midgets on
shaggy ponies, they reaped in the ribbons
at the bush gymkhana. Their mother
explained that it was their first attempt
at show-riding. “Actually,” she added,
“they’re better after stock or on a
roughie.” The little girl was six, her
rough-riding brother a year younger.
* * * *
“Orion”: The baker’s horse stalling
for an ice-cream (B. 3/6/’59) had less
success than a circus elephant that once
halted “the Greatest Show on Earth”
in a street in Warrnambool (Vic.). The
elderly keeper of a corner-shop, who had
over the years given Jumbo a loaf of
bread, had passed-on since the last tour.
The elephant halted at the right corner
and refused to budge, until a knowing
bystander came-up with the appropriate
solution —half-a-loaf of brown.
HPhe small south-west town of Ungarie
A (N.S.W.) having long complained that
in midsummer only a trickle of water
from Burrinjuck Dam reached it at the
end of the pipeline, the Public Works
Department erected a 100,000 gal. tank,
which, it claimed, would end all shortages.
After two summers and no improvement,
a local wag supplied a fitting comment
—a large white elephant painted on the
side of the tank. The job must have been
done by moonlight, for it is over 100 ft.
up, the artist having only a narrow spiral
stairway round the side of the tank from
which to work. The strangest feature of
it is that nobody seems to know who did
it—and that in a small country town is
some achievement. —“N’Hembo.”
* * * *
“Norque”: Station ration - scales, as
authorised by the Central Queensland
Pastoral Employers’ Association in 1893
(I got my original from the cupboard-
door in Maxwelton station office) in-
cluded: Flour, 81b.; tea, 60z.; sugar, 31b.;
meat, 201 b.; salt, |lb.; soda, 2oz. Extras
were allowed at the rate of 2s. per man
per week, “to be selected from store by
employee.” The wage-scale included some
items worth quoting: Bullock-drivers on
road, 245. to 305.; station-hands, 16s. to
205.; cooks (up to 10 men), 255. “and
found”; rough bush-carpenters, 20s. to
245. The bab’s present rate for cooking
for more than seven is £l4 4s. lid., plus
keep and overtime for Sundays and
holidays, plus (in the north-west) 14s. Bd.
parity-rate.
* * * *
“Seedy”: One of the regular clients
of Big Paddy’s gambling-joint at Cairns
(Q.) was a Chinaman who invariably
sought to change a run of stiff luck by
throwing a handful of loose change over
- his shoulder out the open window;
naturally all the “fleas” were a wake-up
to the advantage of being in the right
possie to collect the largesse, and the
scramble for it would often spark-off a
mass stoush. Paddy, noting the gang
around the window when Ah Sam wasn’t
doing so well, slipped him simultaneously
a wink, a handful of something and a
swift nod towards the window. As fingers
got trodden-on in the scramble, Paddy
commented: “That Cairns beer is pretty
good—you can even get a decent fight
out of the bottle-tops!”
* * * *
“Boro-Belle”: A record swim made
by a cow a few years ago of 42 miles
from Bloomsbury (Q.) to Lindeman
Island had a costly sequel. The polled
heifer was allowed to join the island
herd, and the resultant spread of ticks
brought from the mainland cost the
owner of Lindeman £2OO to eradicate.
Still, in the interim the cow has had three
calves, and at the present cost of beef
she’ll only need to produce a few more
to wipe-out her debt.
* * * *
“Dicky”: Asked at the dance after
the polo-carnival why he was still wear-
ing his spurs, the laconic bloke told
them:“So’s they can wheel me out!”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: The artist friend of
“Ybsul” (B. 3/6/’59) home-furnishing by
butterbox intrigues me. At the century’s
turn butterboxes were solid first-quality
N.Z. kauri with sides and tops 11/ 16in.
and ends 13/ 16in. thick. The balks by
favor of wind and wave scudded across
the Tasman in barquentines from
• Whangaroa to be frame-sawn to box-
sizes, the sawdust eagerly sought by the
ham- and bacon-smokers at 2s. 6d. a
bag. About 1916 the dendrologists added
two and two together and came up with
the answer that the giant Araucaria
forests of the Shaky Isles couldn’t keep
abreast of Strawberry’s burgeoning pro-
duction, and only for some important
construction like decking a Navy ship
or vatting a brewery could A gat his alba
be exported to Australia. Boxes changed
to kahikatea until this got too pricey,
and the C.S.LR.O., around 1930, re-
searched a de-tainting spray that facili-
tated the use of Queensland hoop-pine.
That lasted five years. Since 1930, Straw-
berry’s prime product has been packaged
in a contraption of plywood, staples,
cleats and wire that little lends itself to
any tool of the do-it-yourself except the
kindling tomahawk, and even that with
some hazard.
* * * *
“Lillydale”: A couple of decades ago
space-travel artists, with fantasy, de-
lineated flying-saucers, and now we have
the photo of a four-tonner flown off
the Isle of Wight. But only a couple of
days elapsed between Aria’s joke-block
(B. 10/6/’59) of Belinda getting a lift
in a tracked sand-scoop and Dan Bailey
actually salvaging a sick man from the
ambulance - deterring sand - dunes of
Sydney’s Cronulla Beach in a similar
vehicle.
MARDI N.S.W.
No one goes to Mardi,
Though it’s easily reached by car;
l think perhaps our Mardi needs
To add a little Gras.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


T can question only one statement in
Peter Mann’s informative and enjoy-
able article, “Big Biz in Budgies” (B.
10/6/’59): that breeders are “doing
roaring business these days.” The truth
is that budgie-breeding, as a commercial
proposition, has had it. And the reason
can be found in Peter’s second-last para-
graph. Every second household today
has a budgie, which means that satura-
tion-point has almost been reached.
Dealers buying in bulk paid from £1
to 30s. a pair for common colors last
year ; today they are not eager at 7s.
The Aussie budgie has bred so prolifically
overseas that England and America have
ceased taking shipments. Two years ago
“pieds”—budgies with yellow or white
shoulders and a similar bar across the
chest—were bringing from £6 to £lO a
pair. Three aviculturists of my acquain-
tance, concentrating on such aristocrats,
were making between £3OO and £5OO a
year from their hobby. This year they
not only sold their exclusive birds, but
unloaded the “normal” colors also, all
at what prices they could get. They
foresee a slump similar to that of the
middle-’3os, when hundreds of budgie-
breeders turned their birds loose because
supply outdistanced demand ; and the
number of signs now on suburban fences
which advertise lovebirds for sale, cheap,
do nothing to dismiss that viewpoint.
Meanwhile, diamond - sparrows, those
pretty little finches that in barefoot days
we used to trap and sell for a shilling a
pair, are now considered cheap at £l.
Macquarie.
* * * *
“Amcee”: With a badly infected burn
on his leg, young Joe, an aboriginal child,
was brought into hospital. When Sister
asked her why she hadn’t brought him
in when he was burnt, Mum replied:
“Didn’ worry, Sista. Y’see, it was only
a little fire what burnt him.”
* * * *
“E.0.E.”: The delightful little fairy-
penguins found along many Tasmanian
beaches frequently fall victims to the
motor-car because of their habit of
falling forward —apparently an instinctive
urge to camouflage by hiding their white
weskits. In some municipalities bird-
lovers have erected warning-notices at
both ends of strips of road frequented
by the little chaps.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Dropped a jarrah in
January, in the middle of a long spell
of dry weather —not a forest giant, but
big enough to crush some other jarrah
and redgum saplings. A month later,
while the sand they were growing in was
still bone-dry, some of those young trees
which had broken off at ground-level
had shoots 18in. long that had sprung
from buds which normally would never
have been called into use. These dor-
mant buds are among the wonders of
our plant-life; apparently evolved to
cope with fire, they spring into action
to counter any calamity that deprives the
root-system of the leaves which produce
the tree’s food. The roots can still, for
a time, absorb minerals which are in
solution and held between the soil-
particles, and they can start these on
their way up the trunk ; but unless the
leaves are there to take those minerals,
and combine them with carbon and other
substances taken from the air to convert
the whole into carbohydrates, the effort
is wasted. Denude a tree of its leaves
—or of its chlorophyll-bearing parts —•
and its food-supply is destroyed, however
“ Etiquette , Charlie, etiquette! Never hand anyone a shovel blade-first!”
vigorous the root-system may be; and
the main purpose of these dormant buds
is to provide a quick source of chloro-
phyll which can manufacture enough
food to keep the roots growing and func-
tioning until the tree becomes foliaged
again. In an era when man is doing
his best to destroy trees it’s a comforting
thought that Nature is still vitally con-
cerned with their continued existence.
* * * *
“L. 8.5.”: In rediscovering the flight-
less takahe (Notornis hochstetteri) in
1948, Dr. Orbell gave N.Z. bird-lovers
their greatest excitement in a generation.
Last seen in 1898 near Lake Te Anau,
it was thought extinct. Meanwhile chicks
have so thrived in captivity that the
takahe now ranks as its country’s largest
native land-bird, eclipsing its fellow-
pedestrians, the kiwi and the rare kakapo
ground-parrot. Hopes have risen that
small moas survive somewhere in the
wild unexplored south-west corner of
the South Island, where, drenched by
a 200-in. rainfall, the primeval forest
is as impenetrable as any tropical jungle ;
and that the unique huia (Hetemlocha
acutirostris) still lives, despite bushfire
and pest. Last authentic sighting of this
bird was in 1907, in the Tararua Range
of the North Island
'T'here’s a general impression that the
position of any animal-species in the
evolutionary scale is determined largely
by the dependence of the young on the
parent—the greater the dependence, the
higher the species has advanced in in-
telligence. How does this apply to birds?
With tree-nesting flyers like honeyeaters,
finches and wagtails the nestling is totally
dependent on the parents right up to the
flying-stage, and partly dependent, or at
least reliant, on them for some time after
flight. In some of the wrens the family-
group seems to adhere for months, per-
haps years.
The emu, undoubtedly a primitive type,
could probably scratch a living imme-
diately it leaves the shell, and although
the male parent looks after the chicks
until they’re fairly well grown, he doesn’t
actually feed them. The chick of the
mallee-fowl scratches its way out of the
mound and streaks for the shelter of the
scrub. It’s debatable whether it receives
any assistance from its parents, or even
sees them ; but I’ve seen adults in the
vicinity of the mound while young were
emerging and groups of young and adults
together for some time after, so I’ll argue
that the parents do assist the young to
some extent.
Among swamp - birds, black - ducks
shepherd their broods practically right
up to the flying-stage, leading them to
feeding-grounds and showing them how
to find food ; the swamp-hen, which
spends most of its feeding-time on land,
brings the chicks ashore when they’re a
few days old and turns them loose to
forage for themselves, but keeping an
eye out for enemies and, I think, herd-
ing them back to the nest for the night;
but the coot and the dabchick both feed
their chicks by mouth practically until
they’re flying.
KELMS.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, P. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hewsoti & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BB 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange.
Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “KETIP," Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE GOLD SUBSIDY
By “PIETER NUYTS”
who asked for,
among other things, an in-
crease of 15s. an ounce in the
gold subsidy paid to marginal
mines, got 10s. on that claim
and nothing on the others ; and
they’re not pleased, particularly
as the increase probably won’t
cost the Government as much
as the “salary grab;” In fact,
it’s claimed that the rise will
bring the total subsidy to only
about £750,000, which is
mighty poor assistance to the
industry which put Australia
on the map in the first place
and has helped mightily with
her balance-of-payments ever
since.
The goldmining industry isn’t
the lusty infant it once was, and
for some reason that’s hard to
understand, in Australia gold
doesn’t hold the old attrac-
tion. The last couple of
generations of Australians have
seen more virtue in producing
clothing and food and manu-
factured articles than in digging
a dull and comparatively use-
less metal out of one hole in
the ground simply to bury it in
another. We’ve been educated
to regard gold as something
rather useless to civilisation,
and although we haven’t really
believed that, the reiteration has
robbed “chasing the ’weight”
of much of its romance. That
and the fact that our parents
imbued us with a sense of the
value of a permanent job and
we’-ve passed the lesson on.
So prospecting, even scien-
tific prospecting, isn’t numbered
among the worth-while occu-
pations for man or boy, and
gold isn’t to be sought as
eagerly or valued as highly as
paper-money.
But it is in many other parts
of the globe. That’s evident by
the stringent precautions we
have to take to stop gold going
out of this country illegally, and
the risks that are taken to get
it out. A big, and to some
economists a worrying, pro-
portion of the world’s gold-
production annually goes into
secret hiding-places, mostly in
Asiatic countries where
apparent poverty often masks
surprising wealth, and where
paper-money hasn't come to
be trusted yet; but lately
there’s been a big demand for
gold in Canada and the U.S.,
where it can be bought and
“Could you stall-off that appeal for a while? I'm
making some terrific contacts here!"
hoarded legally. The U.S.
Government is reported to be
worried by the declining ratio
between free stocks of gold and
that held at Fort Knox.
Obviously there’s a market
for gold. Just as obviously
there’s more gold in this con-
tinent than has ever come out
of it. What’s even more to the
point, a great deal of it is in
known localities, just waiting to
be mined as soon as the price
makes it worth while.
There isn’t any other export-
able commodity that could be
gained in such quantities and
at such little actual expense as
gold. For a comparatively
small subsidy, paid inside Aus-
tralia, in Australian paper-
currency, the Government
could immediately and very
considerably increase the
country’s export trade.
And there’s more to it than
that. The immediate result of
a substantially increased sub-
sidy would be the reopening
of old mines and the develop-
ing of finds made in recent
years and considered to be
barely wage-earners. Then
there’d come a resurge in pros-
pecting, with the almost in-
evitable rich new finds, and
some of the marginal mines,
followed further, would reveal
richer lodes which wouldn’t
qualify for the subsidy. In
those cases the Government
would more than get back in
revenue the amount it paid
out in subsidy.
There’d be other effects not
as immediate but far more
important. The subsidy would
send men out into the back-
country and they’d send in
information which the country
badly needs. When the jet age
created a need for new metals,
and that need produced a
clamorous market for minerals
like beryllium and caesium and
molybdenum and tungsten and
many others, the Westralian
Mines Department was able
to indicate places where these
new minerals could be found
with certainty and others
where they could be sought
with hope.
The department could do
this because it had carefully
filed reports of specimens sent
in by prospectors in the early
days, who found minerals
strange to them and submitted
them for classification. At the
time the reports were disap-
pointing to the finders the
minerals were classified as
commercially useless but
those reports later became in-
valuable.
If we can get men combing
the outback, looking for gold
but with the added knowledge
that metals they can’t classify
themselves might still yield
them fortunes, we’ll get samples
rolling in in a stream that will
keep teams of geologists busy
and' will multiply our know-
ledge of this continent's poten-
tialities.
I’m not suggesting that pro-
specting for gold, or gold-
mining, will ever replace secon-
dary industry in Australia, or
that it should ; but the Govern-
ment will never get a better
sure-fire, quick-return invest-
ment. Every penny it pays out
on this subsidy will buy gold
—there’s no risk involved, since
it would be paid on each ounce
of gold won, and not on each
ton of dirt shifted.
Exit Our Shipping
[From “Buzoe”]
'T'he Westralia, now, as the
A Delfino, carrying 30,000
fat-lambs to the United States,
is not the only well-known
ship to be lost to the Aus-*
tralian coast after many years
of hard service.
Certainly, she is the best
known, and as an inter-State
passenger-ship she carried to
and from the West a vast
number of passengers.
Apart from that, her war
service as an S.L.I. was nothing
to be ashamed of.
In the invasion of New
Britain she lowered 16 landing-
barges, each weighing 26 tons,
two 80-ton landing-craft, 50
tons of equipment—including
a bulldozer —and 700 troops
into barges, all in 60 minutes.
At the end of the Hollandia
operations she had trained
about 6000 men in combined
ops and transported another


Faith in ihc
Future
tl
4/
\
Great things continue to be done on the Snowy
Mountains Project. First flow of power from one
of its major stations went into the New South
Wales electrical system at the end of April.
Before long, supply will have extended over
into Victoria.
It is well for us to get clearly in mind what
is happening in that region where rivers, fed by
rainfall and snow-melt, drop sharply to provide
the classic conditions under which hydro-electricity
is produced.
We define its dimensions in millions of
kilowatts of power and acre-feet of water. In
layman’s language it means that a torrent is turned,
poured in giant system through the mountains to
generate power, and will be released for wider
irrigation in New South Wales, Victoria and
South Australia.
In irrigation alone it will add one-third of a
million acres, now dry, to production in a country
where we rely on rural output for more than ninety
per cent, of what we eat and more than eighty per
cent, of what we export.
The project serves already, in power, while it
is still forming. Years more of work upon it lie
ahead. Construction is going well. Dams, tunnels,
racelines, underground power-stations are building.
Earth-moving equipment is doing in hours
mammoth constructional tasks that would have
occupied human hands for months. New
Australians, numerous in the work force, have
added considerably to the technical skills employed.
Australian, American and French firms are
among the heavier contractors. Some contracts
have been finished so far ahead of time that special
Government appropriations have had to be made
in contract payments this year to avoid delays in
related works.
The Snowy Scheme is the greatest single
project we have ever undertaken, and all who are
connected with it have reason to be proud of
its progress.
Its ultimate cost will be upwards of
£4OO-million. In magnitude—as in performance—
it is one of the signal proofs to the world of our
faith in our country’s future.
17,500 to forward areas, so
she was pretty well known.
But the old Blue Funnel
ship Asphalion was four years
older when she sailed on her
last voyage from Fremantle
at the end of March.
Built in 1925, she came to
Fremantle to carry on the fast
wool-cargo service to Britain,
and, except for the war years,
she had been coming to Fre-
mantle ever since, and could
still do her 14 knots.
She was badly knocked
about in February, 1944, when
she was torpedoed off the east
coast of India.
It took her all her time to
make Calcutta, and it was 15
months before she got to sea
again.
After her return in 1947 she
was on the Fremantle-Singa-
pore run.
With her last cargo of wool,
apples, barley and timber, she
sailed for Liverpool and Glas-
gow and will be broken-up.
The poor old Koolinda, of
the W.A. Government’s State
Shipping Service, after more
than 30 years of travelling up
and down the nor’-west coast,
was sold to what could be
described as “overseas
interests.”
She was the most popular
of all the nor’-west ships, and
everyone was sorry about it.
That, however, did not stop
her staying at the North Wharf
for about 12 months, accumu-
lating barnacles, while the
overseas interests were presum-
ably wondering what to do
with her.
Eventually, after a slight
misunderstanding which led to
a legal document being meta-
phorically nailed to her mast,
her accommodation fittings
were ripped out of her and she
was loaded-up with about 300-
head of Shorthorn cattle,
bought in the south-west “at
apparent market values,” as
the local press put it.
She also loaded a line of
wethers last March, called at
Darwin to pick up additional
cattle for the Philippines, then
left these parts, barnacles and
all.
Costs and Prices
TTp to the time of the award
of an extra 15s. a week
by the Federal Court of Con-
ciliation and Arbitration
(operative June 11), production-
costs in Australian industry
had'shown a stabilising trend,
and in some cases a reduction.
In the coalmining industry
costs have been reduced-con-
siderably.
In its survey of the Aus-
tralian manufacturing industry,
the Department of Trade
reports that, with capacity to
spare, materials freely avail-
able, and most types of labor
in adequate supply, conditions
in manufacturing industries
remained highly competitive
throughout the period up to
April 30 this year. Production-
costs were held steady, and in
many cases reduced, and the
downward movement in prices
noted a year earlier became
more widespread.
A welcome stability in manu-
facturers’ costs was reported
throughout industry'*, wages
have been more stable than in
previous years, and unit labor-
costs have in many industries
been reduced following intro-
duction in recent years of more
efficient machinery and in
some cases more effective
utilisation of capacity. Some
raw materials were cheaper.
Service charges continued to
increase in most States, but
there has been a downward
movement reported in the cost
to industrial users of elec-
tricity in N.S.W.
During the year ending
May 31, 1959, wages for
workers under Federal awards,
and under Victorian, South
Australian and Tasmanian
State awards, remained un-
changed.
But during the same period
wages of workers under State
awards increased by 2s. in New
South Wales, 15s. in Queens-
land and 6s. 7d. in Western
Australia.
Then on June 5, 1959, the
Court of Conciliation and
Arbitration brought-down its
judgment in the 1959 basic-
wage case, involving an in-
crease in the Federal basic
wage of 155., for payment
from the first pay-period after
June 11.
With market conditions com-
petitive and costs tending
downward many instances of
price-reductions had previously
been reported. These reduc-
tions have not been confined
to the field of consumer-goods,
where they have been forced
by competition for sales and
made possible, in some cases,
by lower raw-material costs;
they have also been reported
from industries producing
plant, equipment, machinery
and their components. In this
field they have been made pos-
sible by more effective use of
manufacturing-capacity.
Prices of locally produced


* MAIL COUPON
YEARLY RETURN
GUARANTEED
PAID MONTHLY FROM A TRUST FUND
This Company has exclusive rights to a complete range
of Automatic Vending Machines that are in high demand
in this rapidly expanding industry. An investment in this
Company actually gives you ownership of machines
as equity, but YOU DO NO WORK WHATSOEVER!
WE DO EVERYTHING! We can offer a guaranteed
20% because, unlike other companies, we are actual
manufacturers as well. Payments are made each month
to you from a guaranteed Trust Fund which is estab-
lished 12 months in advance for every investor!
9 Holdings are transferable AT ANY TIME. .
# Minimum investment is £3OO (which brings you well
over £1 a week).
O No work or operating by the Investor EVER!
# Money-back in full after 5 years, or option of exten-
sion.
PHONE. CALL OR MAIL COUPON
Merchandising Equipment
Pty. Ltd.
383-5 George St. M
Sydney. 8X5751.
PACIFIC MERCHANDISING EQUIPMENT PTY. LTD.,
Bth Floor, Gibb & Beeman House, 383-5 George St.,
Sydney. Phone: BX 3241, BX 5751.
Please send me full details of your 20% investment.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 1/7
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charier A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
basic materials and building-
materials were largely un-
changed, but reports of sub-
stantial reductions in tendered
prices for structural-steel
fabrications are indicative of
the competitive atmosphere
prevailing in the building
industry.
New C.Q. Merchant
- listed Central
Queensland Merchant Den-
ham Bros. (Rockhampton) Ltd.,
carried-on business for 40 years
before seeking Stock Exchange
listing.
The company was formed in
1912 to acquire and take-over
the business of _ wholesale
grocery, produce- and hard-
ware-merchants, and other
attendant business, including
the buying and selling of hides
and skins, and of fat-sheep for
the retail-butchery trade.
Through the years the com-
pany acquired a connection
with the shipping industry and
now holds the agencies for
Adelaide Steam and John
Burke. Another interest is in
the production of foodstuffs
and cordials, under the name
of “Redleaf.”
Retail branches are situated
in adjacent towns and the
company operates modern self-
service wholesale- and retail-
stores in Rockhampton.
Following a reconstruction
of capital—which included a
one-for-three par-issue and a
one-for-one bonus-issue to
shareholders paid capital
stands at £184,820. On the
pre-bonus dividend-rate of 16
p.c. the fully-paid £1 ordinary
shares yield 11.9 p.c. at the
current market-price of 275.
Frome Rocks Et Alia
[1 rom JL. OvveuJ
A bandonment of Frome
Rocks No. 2 well at the
depth of 7504 ft. is a disap-
pointment to all who look
forward to the day when Aus-
tralia will join the list of
countries producing commer-
cial petroleum. In particular,
it is a setback to that valiant
group of oil-companies which
have poured out their treasure
and their talent in the search
for black gold on the mainland.
It is a trite saying that noth-
ing succeeds like success, but in
geology—and, in particular, in
the geology of petroleum-
failure often teaches more than
success.
Thus Frome Rocks 2 is yet
another illustration that the
search for oil on the Australian
mainland is handicapped by
locating wells on post-Permian
“highs.” The fallacy of that
procedure has so often been
emphasised by me in these
pages that repetition should be
unnecessary. I shall, however,
draw attention, once more, to
the effect of the Triassic hiatus.
This hiatus was described by
the late Dr. W. G. Woolnough
as unique, and I wholeheartedly
agreed with him—both in the
stratigraphical and tectonic
aspects.
I have never * doubted
that the Australian continent
harbors commercial deposits
of petroleum awaiting dis-
covery, but I have always held
—and I have often stated
so in writing and in lectures, as
far back as the date of the sink-
ing of Rough Range No. 3
well —that the testing of post-
Permian stratigraphical and
structural “highs” was a tech-
nique against whose chances
of striking commercial oil the
dice had been loaded by the
Triassic hiatus.
The verity of that dictum
has amply been proved not
only in the Carnarvon Basin
and in the Kimberleys, but in
every Australian State where
post-Permian anticlines and
domes and suchlike —both
actual and assumed —and post-
Permian stratigraphical traps
have been drilled ad nauseam.
Even now, the few wells
currently being sunk have all
been located by this method,
which can be described as
peculiarly non-Australian, as it
is an overseas relic of a classic-
ally successful procedure not
applicable to local conditions.'
Thus Australian geology
marches in step with its unique
fauna and flora.
Dome Structures
[From F. OwenJ
TAR. H. G. Raggatt (B.
24/6/’59) mistakenly attri-
butes to me a wish that the
Bureau of Mineral Resources
should have tested the Wool-
nough Hills (W.A.) structure.
My own point of view is that
the data collected by the
Bureau filters so slowly
through its files that it is of
far less value to the searcher
for oil than it would be if
released earlier.
What I wrote (B. 10/6/’59)
was:
As such [that is, as a probable
salt dome] it is certainly worthy of
detailed testing, and it is rather
surprising that this has not been
done already.
I had in mind a competent
organisation which had access
to the bureau’s report of the
June, 1956, expedition.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
People Under Pressure
The effect of fear, abetted
by its ugly offspring revenge, is
the theme of Joseph Hayes’s
thriller (Playhouse, Perth).
“The Desperate Hours” are
endured by the Hilliard family,
living in a suburb of Indiana-
polis ; by three escaped con-
victs who invade and dominate
their home ; and by the town’s
police-department, determined
to trace and recapture the
escapees.
Originally used in a novel,
the situation is essentially
dramatic, and the characters
are sufficiently well drawn to
show development within the
two-day span of an excellent
plot. A number of interest-
ing problems related to indi-
vidual and social behavior are
raised, but the pace of action
and high level of suspense
oush such serious considera-
tions aside and allow the
thriller-motif to prevail.
Well produced by Sol
Sainken, who successfully over-
comes the difficulties of fre-
quent scene-changes by using
a composite set and controlled
lighting, the play provided
exciting entertainment and
gave the cast plenty of scope
for fast movement, a few
subtle undertones, and much
forthright portrayal of familiar
character types.
Brook Denning, lately
returned to W.A. after study
abroad followed by consider-
able success with English com-
panies, played the young, em-
bittered leader of the three
convicts. From the coldly
cheerful, almost objective atti-
tude of his first entrance,
Shakspeare in Brisbane
Shakspeare in Brisbane
means good business for the
groups who stage the plays, but
in a more permanent sense it
is a good business that they
present them. No matter what
faults, what inadequacies of
casting, the truth comes home
to school-audience after school-
audience of his excellence as
a dramatist.
In presenting “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” for
Brisbane Arts Theatre, Jack
Hollingworth kept scene
following quickly on the heel
of departing scene, each seem-
ing to take-over from its
predecessor just at the point
when “enough was enough,”
be it Duke, lover, rude
mechanical or fairy as, of
course, the author intended.
Casting this play is always
a problem, particularly as
regards the fairy scenes. For
my part, I hope that my dreams
next Queensland midsummer
are pestered by as lovely a
Titania as Rosalind Seagrove!
A pity that, however intelli-
gent Alan Denby’s Oberon was
in. planning, this part cannot
be carried off by the bulkiest
physique on stage.
How to dress them? An
interesting experiment
attempted. Since the Athenian
Court was in conventional
Greek costume, and Titania is
. interested in having an Indian
page-boy, the fairies were given
Eastern-pattern garments of
extreme beauty.
A male Puck is always an
advantage—there is less risk
of the standard “Art of Speech”
girl being inflicted upon us —
and Ray Dunlop would have
done better had he been
striving further from the edge
of fussiness and tension.
In some half-dozen stagings
of this play I have never seen
the “lamentable comedy” of
Pyramus and Thisbe presented
better. John Alden used to
import (as did Stanley Hollo-
way) so much extra business
that Shakspeare lost this round
in the tussle. Not so here, and
the roars of audience-delight
were happily with the clowns
and not at them.
A word, too, for the Hermia
of Beverley Bates. How this
young player can use the vital
rhythms of the poetry to help
her in the part! There was no
sense of apologising for having
to speak verse —an affectation
canonised in some quarters,
professional and amateur, into
the Rule.
After the woodland setting
of the “Dream,” Rhoda Fel-
“A strange gentleman at the door, Harry. Says he's
Walked a thousand miles to see television."
gate’s production of “The
Tempest” for Twelfth Night
Theatre, reverting to this
group’s custom, was on Globe
Theatre lines, complete with
Elizabethan balcony, inner
stage and apron.
This plan has worked well
in the past with the major
tragedies, but on this occasion,
truth to Shakspeare or no, I
should dearly have liked just
one glimpse of the Enchanted
Island of Prospero through a
producer’s eye instead of rely-
ing upon my own “imaginary
forces.” Still, there’s no deny-
ing the speed of presentation
possible with this stage.
The set thus constant,
interest naturally shifts to
presentation of the characters.
Miss Felgate, with good reason,
sees Prospero not as the tradi-
tional boring dodderer but in
his virile early forties just
such a father as a 17-year-old
Miranda would have —and in
the part Gordon Davies was
able to suggest this virility.
(After all, his references to
“every second thought being
of his grave” don’t require us
to plant one of his feet in it:
all of us over forty are prone
to such confessions.) What he
lacked, though, was genuine
authority. Too often a curl of
phrase, of lip and of hip sug-
gested a petulance not expected
of the overlord of the strange
island.
Nor was Mervyn Eadie’s
Caliban of sufficient stature.
Reference after reference is
made to his fishlike appear-
ance and smell. The days are
gone when Allan Wilkie in the
part mauled a raw fish on stage,
but I feel that the present
Caliban, had he done so,
would have reached for a
table-napkin. True, he is given
the loveliest poetry in the play,
but it is poetry of primary
experience the “sights and
sounds” style ; his attempt to
make an image once fails
significantly, as though his
creator would rob him of that
reach of human intellect.
The aristocracy of this
character is the nobility of the
earth and sea itself. We can-
not play the gentleman with
it. There is little merit in
adhering to Shakspeare’s plan
of the play’s presentation and
then ignoring plain-enough
statements in the text itself on
the Monster and, for that
matter, the monsters who pre-
sent the imaginary banquet.
A lovely Miranda from
Jeanette Crabb, and a worthy
Ariel from Elizabeth Lindley.
James Buchanan’s Trinculo
and Stan Smith’s Stephano
were the happiest inventions
on the island; lan Gzell’s
Sebastian the most promising
But the island itself was
enchanting only in moments.
VAL VALLIS.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. EISHEB, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Divorce Notice
IX THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GRACE KINpL late of Port Mac-
quarie New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MICHAEL JOHN KINDL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1894 of 1959 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Queen’s Square Sydney
by Ist September 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
EDGLEY, BROWN & SANDERSON,
Solicitors, of 6 Wynyard Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
1
its FUN, SAVES MONtYfi
DEVELOPING AND PRINTING J
YOUR OWN SNAPSHOTS ... U
WITH THE
odak
PHOTO-
HOBBY
OUTFIT
aw* . r.lf Ih, fc*
PKOB
Taking pictures is fun, but
it's a greater thrill when
you develop and print them
yourself — and you can do
it!— with the Kodak Photo-
Hobby Outfit. Contains
everything needed, particu-
larly an easy-to-follow step-
by-step instruction chart.
Complete outfit
£5.10.0
IT’S MADE BY KODAK
SO YOU KNOW IT’S GOOD
iMi
mm
through the alienating horror
of sadistic reaction in face of
failure, to a final implied appeal
for sympathetic understand-
ing, he sustained a heavy part
with ease. He called the tune
to which all the rest must dance,
and his well-defined responses
to ever-changing circumstances
built high tension in both
players and audience.
The evil-minded convict
Robish was notably weil
handled by John Lenton, the
earthy quality of stupid,
malicious brutality affording
welcome contrast to the some-
what Freudian attitudes of
most of the other characters.
In a predominantly male cast
Gerry Atkinson, as the detec-
tive-chief, Keith Flanagan, as
Hilliard, and Phil Porter, as
the convict leader’s kid-
brother, all gave sound per-
formances.
H. D.-B.
♦?< ♦> <£
Le Francais Ballet
At Sydney St. Lawrence
Hall Robert Pomie produces
five of his own ballets: a white-
ballet, “Faust Divertissement”
(Gounod) ; “The Web,” for
spider and victim ; four scenes
for a blind girl, “The Night
is my Realm” (Sibelius, Young,
Poncielli and Gounod) ; some
Balkan scenes to music by
Khatchaturian, and “Surf”
(Offenbach).
Kathleen Gorham subdued
the style and finish of her
“Faust” dancing to more ex-
pressive dancing as the spider
against the huge rope web on
which Pomie was at last
pathetically hanged ; and noth-
ing in her blind-girl dances
quite equalled the brilliance of
the girl hesitating with the
music, tapping a foot in front
of her to feel her way.
In the Balkan scenes
Carolann Ball achieved a few
moments of noble emotion in
her pas de deux with Pomie,
and a flowing lightness and
gaiety in the underwater
scene of “Surf.” Pomie’s in-
vention needed tightening both
on stage and during intervals,
but it was sad to hear him
apologising for keeping us so
late: “Surf” was worth wait-
ing for ; in it his comic miming
as a brawny lifesaver crowned
a heavy evening for him in
front of and, one suspects,
behind the scenes.
❖ ♦>
Hoffmann String Quartet
Fortunately the Bartok
Society, in its concert at Syd-
ney Con., included only one
piece by the composer whose
name it honors. This was the
Quartet No. 6 and, like the
Beethoven and Mozart quartets
that completed the programme,
it is a later work.
Among its many weird
effects, not the least was the
clever imitation by the viola
of a shriek that might weil
have been wrenched from a
sufferer from renal-colic ; there
were also some drooping bits
and pieces suggestive of a
record running-down, inter-
spersed with some teeth-filing
dissonances. Nowhere through-
out its inordinate length was
there any suggestion of beauty
of melody or of harmony.
The Mozart Quartet in D,
K. 575, began with none too
good a tonal balance, but
picked-up with the andante.
The minuet had a certain
stately gracefulness, and in the
final section the co-ordination
and cleanness of attack were
excellent. The ’cello’s dominant
part was well voiced.
The grey hues and shadows
of Beethoven's great Quartet
in A Minor, Op. 132, were
surprisingly well suggested.
Asceticism was the key mood
throughout, and there was a
subdued atmosphere in the dis-
quieting emotions of the
strange adagio. This reading
indicated that these four
players from the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra have all
the makings of a very fine
chamber-music ensemble. They
are: Andrew Hoffmann
(leader), Ist violin ; Alwyn
Elliott, 2nd violin ; Peter
Ashley, viola ; and John
Painter, ’cello.
Artbursts
Poles
Carved (with an axe) by
such surprising newcomers to
Australian art as Laurie One-
Eye Nelson, Big Jack, Bob
One, Quiet Charlie and Don
Hocking, the 17 grave-posts
from Melville Island presented
by Dr. Stuart Scougall make
a somewhat bizarre display in
the .N. S. Wales National
Gallery; and most people,
admitting that the poles are
delightful in themselves, will
wonder if the proper place for
them is not the Museum.
The problem is not as easy
as it may seem. If, with a
vague notion that a museum
is essentially a place for
curiosities and a gallery for
works of art, you look-up the
dictionary for a definition, you
are likely to find the opposite
of what you expect; at least
to the extent that, being a
“temple of the Muses,” a
museum is obviously a very
proper place for works of art.
A gallery is simply “a long,
narrow room,” and you could
put anything in that.
Is there a solution, then, if
not in the dictionary, in popu-
lar usage and tradition? Once
again the position is compli-
cated. On the one hand the
museum-beetle, in the genera
Anthrenus of the family
dermestidce, is understood to
feed on skins and dried insects,
not on paintings ; but on the
other hand it is a fact that the
British Museum contains all
sorts of magnificent works of
art —the Parthenon Frieze, for
example.
But perhaps, after all, a
solution does lie here: for if
you can rightly have works of
art in a museum, that still does
not prove that you should have
curiosities in an art-gallery ;
and these Melville Island posts,
though they have definite
artistic merit of an elementary
kind, are really more in the
nature of ethnological curiosi-
ties than works of art.
If they are to remain in
the Gallery—and they would
certainly be of interest to
visitors—it might be better to
distribute, them around in odd
corners instead of displaying
them so prominently; or at
least to move the entire
aboriginal collection to some
place where it will not clash
so violently with the infinitely
more sophisticated works
nearby. As the poles stand
now, it almost looks as if you
are being invited to admire
Rodin’s “Burghers of Calais”;
and, attractive though they are,
they are hardly in that
category.
♦;* **4
Louis Kahan
. The poetic quality of
Kahan’s work is enhanced by
his firm belief that good crafts-
manship is the one true foun-
dation of good art.
Arriving here from France
after the war, he has since
divided his time between Aus-
tralia and Europe. Line and


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony o] Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
phone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
watercoior pictures of Mel-
bourne early displayed an
inherent love of elegance ; his
latest exhibition at the Skinner
Galleries, Perth, suggested a
predominating interest in line
and color, and, perhaps,
pattern; with tone reduced to
a minimum.
In city buildings and streets
Kahan seems to find a mixture
of form and color that
demands imaginative interpre-
tation, but he is too good a
draftsman to allow his vision
to obscure the outlines of
reality. He selects and omits,
rarely exaggerates. The result
is very pleasing.
He approaches his subjects
in two styles, using brush and
considerably reduced paint to
produce effects recalling the
delicacy of his early water-
colors, or else applying fairly
dry paint with a palette-knife,
to gain a surface that is some-
times vaguely reminiscent of
Sali Herman’s houses.
A portfolio of theatrical-
costume designs reminded that
Kahan designed the superb
sets of the Australian produc-
tion of “The Consul,” as well
as those of several other
operas. Two small stained-
glass windows, of which a
circular “Miraculous Draught
of Fishes” glowed the more
beautifully, showed that he
has been successfully carrying
his study of line and color into
yet another medium.
F. D.
Minor Paintings
Both the Australian - Art
Society at David Jones’, Syd-
ney, and Alex McMillan and
Kenneth Green at the Bissietta
Gallery are showing minor
paintings, on the whole not of
a standard to put before the
public of this large, hard city.
But if you don't ask for more
than a minor charm you can
find it, at David Jones’, in some
oils by Garrett Kingsley,
Ronald Fletcher and Frank
Jessup, and in walercolors by
Claudia Forbes-Woodgate and
John Upton; and at the
Bissietta in Green’s “Hot Day,
Mudgee,” which, though too
thin, has some heat in it; and
in McMillan’s red house in
“Hillend Erosion” with a
better control of technique,
his feeling for odd bits of
architecture might come to
something.
<£►
Newport Artists
For some obscure reason,
possibly because it is also a
suitable haunt for beach-
combing, Newport (N.S.W.)
has become a favored resort of
Sydney artists ; and those who
live there are holding (June 27
—July 12) their third annual
exhibition at Blue Gables, 8
Foamcrest Avenue. Exhibitors
include A. J. Murch, Roy
Flicke, Frank Hodgkinson,
Jean Isherwood, Sheila Mc-
Donald, Bruce Cousin, Elsie
Dangerfield and Frank Mc-
Namara. There are also sculp-
ture and pottery.
❖ ❖ ❖
Elaine Haxton
Full of cacti and clowns,
Elaine Haxton’s exhibition at
Sydney Macquarie Galleries
looks as if the artist has been
chiefly observing Mexican art
and Picasso. Some of the
cacti—“ Golden Day,” for in-
stance —are attractively decora-
tive, but she is better when,
as in “Lucy’s Moon” and
“Oranges and Lemons,” she
has been observing life.
Films
“1 Want to Live”
After seeing “I Want to
Live” (Melbourne Regent), the
film about Barbara Graham,
who was sentenced to be
gassed by a Californian court
for a murder she swore she
never committed, this reviewer
felt quite sick.
Then a remark of G. B.
Shaw’s floated into his mind:
something to the effect that it
isn’t the hanged who is most
to be pitied but the hangman ;
and in Shaw’s thought the
hangman includes you and
me, the judge who condemns,
the world that accepts—in
fact, society in general.
The sufferings of the girl
awaiting execution didn’t then
seem so pitiful as now do the
solemnity and fairness of the
trial, the judge’s impartiality,
the mock ferocity of the
attacking counsel and the
efforts of the defending coun-
sel to obtain a stay of execu-
tion which only served to
prolong the girl’s anguish ; the
appalling stupidity of the
arrangements, which seemed
designed to make her end
more painful; the sad hope-
lessness of the priest fetched
to bring her consolation ; the
conscientiousness of the
chemists preparing the lethal
mixture; the pressmen asking
the girl to tell the world how
she feels about being gassed;
their ■ gawking through the
windows of the lethal chamber
with their notebooks ready,
watching her last movements ;
the psychiatrist delving into
her unconscious and discover-
ing she is “amoral,” though it
is obvious she has the same
morality as he has ; and the
“decency” of the female
warders who are shocked at
the low-necked dress she puts
on for the procession to the
lethal chamber.
And in the whole unhappy
collection there wasn’t a single
sadist! All were nice, kindly,
God-fearing, well-intentioned
individuals.
The picture is described as
a damning indictment of capi-
tal punishment. * So it is, but
it would have been more
effective if the point had been
stressed that, psychologically
speaking, much more damage
was done to the executioners
than the executed. The girl
(sensitively played by Susan
Hayward) was mentally sick,
as was clearly shown in the
first part of the film ; and the
killing of a mentally-sick
person with execration cannot
be very rewarding.
M. G. S.
“Bachelor of Hearts”
Young German actor Hardy
Kruger, pleasant and relaxed
in manner, comes back to
England, after escaping from
it so ingeniously, as the cap-
tured pilot in “The One That
Got Away,” to attend Cam-
bridge University on an
exchange-scholarship and try
to fit his Teutonic mind to
the zaniness of English student
ways.
It’s all good clean fun, and
—as it was meant to —it
demonstrates that Fritz and
Choom are both of them
qfiite likeable blokes, each
responding to a tickle of the
risible muscles. And to show
that even Cambridge tutors
can be human there is one
who relaxes from hammering-
in maths by playing a clarinet
in his own jazz-band at night.
At Sydney State.
“Never Steal Anything
Small”
Several Runyonesque charac-
ters inhabit this exuberant and
witty comedy, part-musical, in
which an up-and-coming water-
front-union president uses a
variety of unethical methods
to get his job, to keep it against
the strong-arm strategy of a
bigger shot, and to try to break-
up the marriage of his union's
lawyer so he may help himself
to the wife. Always lightly
satirical, it tilts not only at the
tycoons of U.S. uniondom but
also at other aspects of the
American scene, notably radio-
commercials.
The film is almost all James
Cagney, who pumps an
enormous vitality into his
part.
At Sydney Victory.
♦> <&
“No Time for Sergeants”
Burly Andy Griffith bull-
dozes his way through this well-
paced and joyous comedy
about the tribulations of a
patient and philosophic three-
striper at a U.S. Air Force
draftee-camp when an amiably
stupid hillbilly (Griffith)
comes dragging trouble in his
wake with the ease of a trotter
pulling a gig. Situations cut
refreshingly away from the
stereotyped ; dialogue is above
average; and the humor is
never forced.
At Sydney Regent.
»!♦
“The Mating Urge”
An interesting documentary
on marriage-customs, mostly
among primitive peoples in
Africa, South-east Asia and
the South Seas, as well as those
in parts of India and Ceylon
who are a few rungs higher up
the ladder of civilisation. The
color-cameras also take an
extensive look at tribal court-
ships, and this section adds-up
to a pretty strong conviction
that the flapper in the bikini
and the ebony lass in the G-
string are both hunters rather
than hunted in the matrimonial
chase.
The commentary, though
informative enough, is rather
dull and prosy.
At Sydney Esquire.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhllls.”
Telephone: Bff 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax" Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 ritt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1171 — BW 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
Tt is regrettable that the annual howl
of criticism now becoming an
accepted accompaniment to the release
of G.M.-H.’s accounts should, on occa-
sions, savor as much, of envy as of con-
cern at the problems arising from the
co.’s phenomenal success and Australia’s
dollar-shortage.
Everything would be all right, it is
suggested, if G.M.-H. would invite Aus-
tralian equity - investors to join (at a
considerable cost in dollars) in what is
undeniably a particularly rich feast, but,
failing this, the co. is advised to slash
“excessive” profit-margins—to the almost
certain embarrassment of some competing
motor-vehicle manufacturers.
An offshoot of the vast General Motors
Corp. of U.S.A., G.M.-H. has made it
fairly clear that, at the moment, it has
no intention of doing either of these
things.
G.M.-H. is the most spectacular of the
numerous concerns earning profits in
Australia for overseas parent-cos., and,
through the publication of its accounts —
the £561,600 of 6 p.c. pref. capital is listed
on local ’Changes—and the size of recent
profits, acts as something of an Aunt
Sally for those anxious to decry the
importation of overseas capital and the
profit-motive itself.
On balance, of course, the development
of the Holden car has brought out-
standing (if incidental) benefits to local
industry, as well as reducing greatly the
expenditure of foreign currency on im-
ported vehicles and making a direct con-
tribution to export-earnings.
This in no way alters the fact that
a request for an equity-interest in the
co. is reasonable enough and the prin-
ciple of marrying Australian and over-
seas capital, sound and commendable,
even if the argument seems less certain
when such a partnership is demanded
as a right after a venture has already
proved abundantly successful.
There may be some substance, too,
in the claim that the co.’s profit-margins
reflect a lack of effective competition as
well as the rewards of undoubted
efficiency and initiative but, when the
annual hubbub dies down, the overriding
problem remains as the growing dollar-
drain involved in the remittance of divs.
to the U.S. parent co.
In the 11 years since the Holden first
won public support over £29.6 million
has gone to General Motors in divs.,
last term seeing a record £7.4 million
paid - out in this manner. It is on
the score of this growing dollar - cost
that a gesture by the co. might well
be sought, especially at a time when
U.S. tariffs and import-quotas are
seriously restricting the dollar - earning
capacity of Australian wool and base
metals.
On the completion, in 1961-62, of the
current £9-million expansion-programme,
G.M.-H. will have outlaid £5B million
during the post-war period on plant,
property and equipment, all but a minute
proportion of this amount coming frorrt
retained earnings. Capitalisation of part
of the mighty pile of reserves resulting
from this reinvestment has been avoided ;
it would attract tax, at the rate of
3s. in the £, ord. capital remaining at
£1,750,000 since it was raised to that
level by a four-for-five bonus - issue
in 1937.
Motor-vehicle registration statistics for
1958 underline the co.’s dominant posi-
tion in the automotive industry, 50.1 p.c.
of the 237,720 vehicles registered during
that year coming from the G.M.-H.
stable, as against 46.3 p.c. of the 213,795
vehicles registered in 1957, with Holden
vehicles accounting for 47.4 p.c. (42.7
p.c. in 1957) of all car and station-
wagon registrations.
Actual unit-sales, to distributors, etc.,
climbed by 18,570 to 124,163, although
export-sales fell by 2085 to a modest
2346, due, primarily, to N.Z. import-
restrictions :
1956. 1957. 1958.
Australian —
Holden—Domestic .. 66,790 90,126 108,280
Holdfen —-Export .. 2,193 4,431 2,346
British—
Vauxhall/Bed ford .. 12,201 8,407 11,561
North American —-
Chev./Pontiac .. 2,891 2,629 1,976
83,985 105,593 124,163
Income from all sources soared by over
£17.7 million to almost £116.4 million
and, while higher vehicle-sales provided
most of the impetus, the non - vehicle
divisions, National Automotive Service
Co. (Nasco), Industrial and Domestic
Equipment Co. (Idee) and Frigidaire,
contributed, between them, a record
£12.8 million (up £1.5 million):
Vehicle. Non-vehicle. Total.
1954 .. 60,649,454 9,211,546 69,861,245
1955 .. 67,956,000 10,522,000 78,478,000
1956 .. 68,528,000 11,567,000 50,095,000
1957 .. 87,318,000 11,288,000 98,606,000
1958 .. 103,545,000 12,832,000 116,377,000
Well over 500,000 Holdens have rolled-
off the assembly - line since 1948 (the
half-million mark was passed last
October), sales of the Australian car and
of other G.M. products (Chevrolet,
Pontiac, Oldsmobile, Buick, Vauxhall,
Bedford, etc.) providing an expanding
market for the spare-parts and acces-
sories handled by Nasco. Idee also had
a good year, collecting some important
orders for diesel-engines from both the
N.S.W. and South Aust. railways, while
an electric-range was added to the well-
regarded products (including domestic-
and commercial-refrigerators) turned-out
by Frigidaire at its big Dandenong (Vic.)
plant.
Suppliers of component-parts, services,
etc., received £63.4 million (£54.4 million
in 1957) from the co.’s total income and
employees £21.7 million (£19.5 million),
provision for depreciation absorbing £3.3
million (£2.9 million) and customs-duties,
taxes, etc., £12.7 million (£lO million),
the latter item including a provision for
income-tax of £ll million (up £2.8
million). The £15,343,107 of net profit
remaining exceeded that of the previous
term by £3,666,637 and is the highest
profit ever claimed by an Australian
co.:
G.M.-H. and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends
Pref. Be- '
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. r Ord. serves.
£ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £23,678 .. .. 17,311,618
1954.9,899,604 33,696 260p.c.=4,550,000 22,627,526
Loss sale assets, £34,974 .. 22,592,552
To depreciation provision, £444,963 22,147,589
1955.9,127,451 33,696 280p.c.=4,900,000 26,341,344
Profit sale assets, £16,439 . . . . 26,357,783
1956.8,473,041 33,696 225p.c.:=3,937,500 30,859,628
Profit sale assets, £13,324 .. .. 30,872,932
1957.11,676,470 33,696 325p.c.=5,687,500 36,828,226
Loss sale assets, £51,375 .. .. 36,776,851
1955. 15,343,107 33,696 425p.c.=7,437,500 44,648,762
The usual £33,696 was divided among
pref. shareholders, the balance of the
profit representing 875 p.c. on ord. capital
or 37.5 p.c. on ord. capital and average
reserves, combined. Ord. divs. actually
paid during the year rose, in total, by
£1,750,000 to £7,437,500 (425 p.c., as
against 325 p.c. in 1957) leaving
£7,871,911 to be added to reserves, which
then stood at £44,648,762 or a little more
than 25| times the size of ord. capital.
At December 31 last, G.M.-H.
reckoned total assets at £69.4 million,
£10.2 million higher than at the begin-
ning of the year ; an increase in liabilities,
arising almost entirely from larger pro-
visions for tax, accruals, etc., account-
ing for only £2.4 million of this gain:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid Capital- 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £561,600 £561,600 £561,600
Ord. .. 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Reserves . . 30,859,628 36,828,226 44,648,762
Creditors, etc.. . 8,384,915 6,398,112 6,004,716
Tax prov., etc. 11.902,959 13,664,511 16,426,970
Pref. final div. 16,848 16,848 16,848
£53,475,950 £59,219,297 £69,408,896
Freeholds, etc. 10,570,004 11,750,533 12,239,991
Plant .. .. 19,456,561 21,232,471 19,589,900
Stocks.. .. 17,202.394 18,640,734 19,022,677
Debtors .. 3,330,812 5,255,985 6,429,067
Cash, etc. .. 2,916,179 2,339,574 12,127,261
£53,475,950 £59,219,297 £69,408,896
Still quite impressive at well over £2.3
million, capital - expenditure was out-
weighed last term by the big depreciation-
provision and the sale of capital items,
the cost-fess-depreciation book-value of


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale”
PATRICK & COMPANY
Sydney.
R..H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. L,. DOWXING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. E. NEVITiy A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Eloor, The National Mutual Eife Building-,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Eines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
fixed assets slipping (by £1.2 million) for
the first time in nine years.
A relatively trifling increase in stocks
and an extra £1.2 million in book-debts
made little impression on the additional
funds provided over the year, the bulk
of which went into cash holdings, up
£9.8 million at the remarkably high figure
of £12.1 million. Considerably less than
this amount will be needed to complete
current expansion plans which, relating
chiefly to the South Aust. plants at
Woodville and Elizabeth, are designed
to provide for an annual output of
125,000 Holden units and the assembly
of 22,000 Vauxhall, Chevrolet, Pontiac
and Bedford vehicles.
As the scope for further large-scale
capital outlay in the co.’s traditional
fields appears to be diminishing, the
parent co., under the present set-up,
can probably look forward to even
fatter divs.
Meanwhile Australian investors can
count on outstanding capital-security and,
at 255., a yield of £4 16s. p.c. from
the £1 6 p.c. prefs.
Tooth and Co., Ltd.
C|crip in Tooth and Co., Ltd., has
received its quota of attention in
recent months from a sharemarket still
chasing after first-class equities. Scarcely
affected, at the time, by the uncovering
of an additional £5,000,000 of reserves
in 1958, bids for the £1 ords. rose to 60s.
last week (as against 51s. 9d. early in
April), before slipping back to 575. 9d.
in sympathy with the cautious note struck
by Chairman R. J. Vicars at the annual
meeting At 575. 9d. the scrip would
return £4 10s. p.c. from the 13 p.c. div.
indicated for the current term.
Well over half of Tooth’s £9,273,986
one-class share-capital is represented by
bonus-shares and, with a balance-sheet
bulging with reserves, the big N.S.W.
brewer isn’t lacking in material for
future bonus-issues. However, if past
performances, a levelling-out in beer-
consumption and the impact of club-
competition on the hotel-trade are taken
as pointers, the co. will be in no hurry
to tap reserves for new gift-scrip and
the possibility of short-term gains appears
to lie mainly in a continuation of
small yearly increases in the div.-cheque.
One of the largest brewers in Australia,
Tooth’s operates the Kent and Waverley
breweries, the last-named being acquired
in 1929 on the absorption of Resch’s,
Ltd. The co. also controls approximately
1000 hotels in N.S.W. (of which over
600 are co.-freeholds) giving it a major
share of the trade in the Mother State.
N.S.W. brewers doubled their output
over the eight years to 1956, during which
period Tooth’s displayed something of
its financial strength by financing the
whole of extensive additions to plant
and property without calling on share-
holders and with a minimum of outside
assistance. The last request for fresh
share-capital went out over 20 years ago,
a one-for-two bonus-issue in 1955 lifting
paid capital to its present total.
The div.-rate was lowered from 16 p.c.
to 11} p.c. after the bonus handout and
has since inched forward (by \ p.c. in
each of the last three terms) to 121 p.c.,
last month’s final div. being calculated
on a 13 p.c. basis. Shareholders haven’t
missed-out on a div. since the present
co. took over the business in 1888.
After reaching a peak of 96.5-million
gallons in 1957-58, the output of beer
in N.S.W. tended to slacken-off, slightly,
during the financial year just completed,
smaller rural- and mining - incomes,
patches of unemployment and hire-
purchase commitments helping to check
consumption. Although there are signs
that thirsts have strengthened somewhat
in recent months, the hotel-trade, itself,
has also suffered from changes in drink-
ing-habits, brought about by the spread
of licensed clubs, and, in some cases,
'from movements in population, these
problems showing-up in a decline in the
income from hotel-leases.
However, as far as can be seen from
the meagre accounts handed - out by
Tooth’s, the co. wasn’t unduly troubled
by these trends last term (to March 31).
Turnover for the year isn’t disclosed, but
aided by the “considerable” economies in
production-costs achieved by the installa-
tion of new brewery-plant, gross profit
advanced by £38,447 (to £5,874,343) after
providing something for contingencies
and an extra £76,256 (£866,275) for
depreciation. A minor (£5313) drop in
expenses, including the unstated tax-
provision, left claimed net profit £43,760
higher at £1,322,171, “adequate provi-
sion” having been made for all assets
“subject to fluctuation”:
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1953.. 154p.e.= 958,312 } ...
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO. . j 4u,4 -‘ 4,137,930
Assets revaluation res., £3,091,329 7,229,264
Unexplained additions, £3,987,390.. 11,216,654
19|54.. 1,075,076 16 p.c. = 989,225 1 .. ono , n .
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. j 11,292,50 a
Reserve capitalised, £3,091,329 .. 8,201,176
1955.-1,180,909114p.c.=1,066,508 1 in , s „ n .
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO .. } 104 ’ 401 8,305,5*7
Mar.,
1956* 619,361 12p.c.= 556,439 7 qo „ _ ...
Employees’ fund, £5OOO .. j °'> 922 §,363,499
1957.. 964 12ip.c.=1,136,064 ) q , qnn - qqq
Employees’ fund, £10,000..} 92 ’ 900 §,456,399
Provisions w/back, > etc., £5,038,219 13.494,618
1958.. 1,278,41112.’p.c.=1,158,248 l n maq i q ooa mi
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO | 11( U63 13,604,781
1959.. 171 12Jp.c.=1,182,433 \ . qq -og io yg, -i q
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO y 13,*34,019
* Six months only, div. at rate p.a.
The higher div.-rate called for an extra
£24,185 and, as usual, the bulk of the
disclosed profit was distributed among
shareholders, the £1,322,171 representing
a return of 14.2 p.c. on share-capital, com-
pared with 13.7, 13.3, 13.3 and 12.7 p.c.
back to 1955.
Five of the co.’s freehold hotels were
rebuilt during the_ year and structural
improvements made to many more, while
new plant was installed in the mineral-
water department and spirit-store. Two
modern bottling-units were also brought
into operation, together with other
“major” items of brewery-plant. All told,
a net £500,384 was added to the book-
value of fixed assets, which, in the case of
freeholds are shown at, or under, cost,
or valuation.
To finance the capital-outlay, a small
(£45,370) increase in stocks and an extra
£214,778 in book-debts, the co. drew on
the bank for a further £22,105 and
increased, by £589,291, the amount
against the aggregation of liabilities and
provisions labelled “creditors.” Shares in
other (unspecified) cos. came into the
balance-sheet at £17,000:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital.. £9,273,986 £9,273,986 £9,273,986
Reserves .. 8,456,399 13,604,781 13,734,519
Overdraft .. 812,975 458,948 481,053
Creditors . . 6,136,727 6,297,793 6,887,084
Employees’ fund 153,167 166,906 180,078
Final div. .. 579,624 579,624 602,809
£25,412,878 £30,332,03S £31,159,529
Freeholds and
plant. . . 19,968,787 22,735,980 23,236,364
Shares other cos. - 17,000
Stocks . . 1,434,834 1,862,781 1,908,151
Debtors .. • 3,508,838 5,597,963 5,812,741
Consols, cash, etc. 500,419 185,314 185,273
£25,412,878 £30,382,038 £31,159,529
At balance-date visible reserves were
piled £4,460,533 higher than share-
capital, each f.-p. £1 ord. having the
support of net tangibles to a book-value
of 495. 7d.
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd.
A promising increase in book-debts
over the year to March 31 last and
a further recovery in earnings are dis-
closed in the latest accounts from the
sturdy, Sydney-controlled financier and
furniture-retailer, Australian Cash Orders,
Ltd.
With a lift in the div.-rate, from 10
p.c. to p.c., and the announcement
of a call on the contribs., the improved
showing has brought a quick response
from the sharemarket and buyers are
currently offering around 31s. for the
20s. “B” ords., as against 225. eight weeks
ago, sellers holding-out for 365.
Sluggishness in the furniture-trade,
lagging collections and a growing
emphasis on consumer-durables attracting
hire-purchase, rather than cash-order,
finance, combined to halve earnings over
the three years to March, 1957, but a
broadening of finance-activities and better
returns from the furniture-offshoots have
since enabled the co. to regain much of
the momentum lost during this period.
To provide the capital funds needed
to support a rising proportion of long-
term financing, A.C.O. now proposes to
call-up 9s. per share on its 20s. “B”
contribs., at present paid to Is. Payable
by July 31 next, the call will bring in
£45,000 and take paid capital to £468,913.
A.C.O. developed from a flourishing


A safe and profitable
INVESTMENT
pa
O
YEARS
AND
OVER
FOR
9% for 2 years 8% for 1 year
Guaranteed by
an Independent
Insurance Company
who issue a separate indemnity policy direct to the
depositor, covering principal and interest.
• Your money is guaranteed by an independent
Insurance Company who, if necessary, are liable to
repay your principal and interest.
% Interest is paid quarterly.
• £5OO accrues to £1,023 in 7i years.
This outstanding investment is again available with
Manufacturers'
(N.S.W.) FINANCE COMPANY
2nd Floor, Northern House, 13/15 O'Connell St., Sydney.
Telephone BW 2661 (10 lines).
r POST THIS COUPON
Manufacturers' (N.S.W.) Finance Company,
i Box 4790, G.P.0., Sydney, for detailed brochure. i
■ YOUR NAME ■
B. l/7/’59
YOUR ADDRESS.
cash-order business passed
over by Buckinghams Ltd., of
Sydney, to certain of its
employees in 1920. Extra-
ordinarily successful in its
early years, the co. has rarely
failed to give a good account
of itself and, with the board
following a traditionally
generous div.-policy, can boast
an excellent record as a div.-
payer, the div.-rate averaging
15 p.c. p.a. over the past
decade.
In addition to finance-
offices in Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane, A.C.O. operates
and finances home-furnishing
offshoots in these cities and
in the N.S.W. centres of New-
castle and Wollongong, the
greater part of the group’s earn-
ings coming from discounts,
commissions and interest.
Last term the parent co.
received a little - changed
in interest, dis-
counts, etc., and an extra
£2OOO (£12,104) in rents,
managing, at the same time,
to clip £987 off expenses
(£264,104) after providing
£31,824 (up £389) for doubtful
debts and depreciation. The
liability for income-tax was
estimated at £14,000 (down
£230).
However, the biggest boost
to earnings came from the
fatter divs. sent out by sub-
sidiaries, the £52,039 (up
£14,629) coming in from this
source pushing net profit to
£69,624, at which figure it was
£17,590 above the previous
term's effort and equal to
16.4 p.c. on share-capital as
against 12.3, 10.8, 17.9 and
20.9 p.c. back to 1955:
Parent Only.
Re-
Mch., Profit. ) —>-Dividends serves.*
£ £ £
Share-issue exps. \v/0ff,£132 210,553
’52.. 73,441 17i p.c. = 60,055 223,939
’53.. 68,036 171 ~ ~ 64,754 227221
Share premiums, £2OlO .. 229,231
’54.. 94,361 174 p.c. = 65,242 258,350
Share premiums, £42.436 . . 300,786
Share-issue exps. w/off, £63 800,723
’55.. 87,117 174 p.c. = 70,397 317,443
Share premiums, £4063 .. 321,506
’56.. 75,471 15 p.c. = 62,017 334,360
’57.. 45,618 10 „ ~41,996 337,982
’58.. 52,034 10 p.c. = 41,483 348.533
’69.. 69,624 12j p.c. = 51,486 366.671
* Subject to goodwill, £127,513,
March 31, 1959.
Consolidated accounts only are
presented for the subsidiary
cos. (all of which balance
nine months before the parent),
earnings of the subsidiary
group for the year to June 30,
1958, rising by £23,174 to
£52,832, after allowing for the
interests of outside share-
holders. Lower expenses and
provision for doubtful debts
and depreciation accounted
for most of this improvement.
Last term's showing by the
parent co. would cover a 124
p.c. div. on capital as it will
stand after this month’s call,
with £ll,OlO to spare.
A £198,344 jump in book-
debts is the first thing to catch
the eye in the parent’s balance-
sheet —due in part, presumably,
to lengthier repayment terms—
the overdraft being stretched
by £114,691 and a further
£66,700 raised on mortgage to
help carry the bigger load. The
financial position of the group
as a whole is obscured by the
difference in balance-dates:
Parent Only.
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £423,913 £423,913
Reserves .. 348,533 3667671
Mortgages .. 85,000 151,750
7 p.c. notes .. 250,000 250,000
Overdraft .. 136,868 251,559
Sundry liabilities 138,009 95j652
Due to subsids... 144,418 103,183
Provisions* .. 99,583 107,055
Final div. .. 20,754 30,915
£1,647,078 £1,780,698
Freeholds, etc... 178,742 180,687
Shares subsids... 337,184 339,084
Debtors, etc. . . 840,299 1,038,643
Due by subsids. 162.094 93,303
Cash .. .. 1,246 1,468
Goodwill .. 127,513 127,513
£1,647,078 £1,780,698
* Bad debts, depreciation, taxation, etc.
Of the £423,913 paid capital
at March 31 last, £18,700 was
in “A” stock, issued to the
original vendors in 1920,
£359,990 in f.-p. “B” stock,
£5OOO in “B” contribs. and
£40,223 in “C” non-transferable
employee-stock. All classes of
scrip participate equally in
divs., the “B” scrip ranking
before the “A” and “C” stock
for return of capital.
Subject to the 9s. call, the
“B” contribs. sold last week
at 6s. 6d. giving buyers a
yield of £8 Is. 3d. p.c. from
a 124 p.c. div., the same return
coming from the f.-p. “B” scrip
at 31s. At balance-date the
parent’s accounts showed net
tangibles of 3 Is. Bd. for every
£ of “B" capital including the
9s. due on the contribs. at the
end of this month.
London Stores, Ltd.
Duilt in 1928 at the inter-
** section of Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, the eleven-
storied headquarters of
London Stores, opposite the
G.P.0., has now become an
integral and familiar part of
the Melbourne scene. Sup-
ported to a greater extent last
year by its branch in Prahran
recently renovated and
modernised —and with an un-
tapped potential in its as yet,
not developed freehold at
Dandenong, the 48-year-old
retailer still gathers to itself
a healthy share of the city’s
clothing, mercery and general
outfitting business. Trading
last year improved with a
slightly increased turnover as
compared with the previous
term but, because of higher
expenses, profits did not follow
suit and fell £6740 to £84,228.
At this level however, they
were anything but unsatisfac-
tory and after allowing £9OOO
for payment of the 9 p.c.
prefs. showed a 25.1 p.c. return
on capital. From 1956-58
returns on capital were success-
ively 28.4 p.c., 24.8 p.c. and
27.3 p.c. Profits last year were
ascertained after deducting
£2496 (down £143) for depre-
ciation and £46,103 (down
£5671) for tax provision:
Parent 00.
, —Dividends—
Pref. Old. Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 174 p.c. serves.*
££' £ £
1956.. 96,472 9000 52,500 1,022,292
Tax ovevprovided. £69 .. 1,022,361
To staff fund, £2OOO .. 1,020,361
1957.. 83,523 9000 52,500 1,042,384
Tax overprovided, £3319. 1,045,703
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 1,040,703
1958.. 90,968 9000 52,500 1,070,171
Tax overprovided, £2 . . 1,070,173'
To staff fund, £5OOO . . 1,065,173
1959.. 84,228 9000 52,500 1,087,901
* After deducting goodwill, £16,659 at
28/2/’59.
The div. rate on ord. capital
remained steady at p.c.,
this, for the fourth year
running. The £1 ords. are
presently fetching 695. on the
Melbourne ’Change and at this
price would yield 5.1 p.c. on
the 174- p.c. div. Whilst hand-
outs stayed high, reserves,
already substantial, were
further expanded to £1,104,560,
an increase of £22,728. '
Fixed assets have not moved
greatly. Alterations, etc., to
the inner-suburban (Prahran)
(Continued on page 32)


O"Grady: A Memory
By CECIL MANN
She arrived, out of sight, in one of
those familiar brown - paper
shopping-bags, brought in, with a
suspiciously assumed air of inno-
cence, by son Colin. He towered his
incredibly lanky length above the red-
cedar office-table, fished her snow-white
puppiness out, and turned her loose on
the expanse of blotting-pad.
She nuzzled over to me (a bit encour-
aged, perhaps), fell over on her left
shoulder against my arm, coiled up, and
went to sleep.
“And what,” I said, “do you reckon
you’re going to do with this?”—know-
ing he already had a bulldog (named,
with an exaggeration of compliment,
Cecil). Maybe, too, I sounded a little
hopeful.
“She’s yours, if you want her,” he
told me.
It came out that he had seen her gam-
The O’Grady; Oaks Avenue
boiling in the window of the puppy-
shop that used to be down near the
Quay-end of Pitt Street (it had been a
marvellous day for them all in there
when, on a Sunday, with all shops closed,
they had somehow got out together and
marched, a whole company of assorted
pups of a dozen breeds, right across
through the scant Sydney Sunday traffic
to the Quay).
The long cove (having evidently
inherited a spendthrift distaste for £ s. d.
in the pocket) had found himself irresist-
ibly drawn in to the counter, there getting
this bargain in white -furs, and 10 years
of happiness for us, for a mere tenner,
I think it still left him with his fare
home, Sydney’s public transport being a
shade cheaper then.
The bargain had also included her
pedigree. This showed that she had
been born at pivedock just eight weeks
earlier, on September 22. It was now
November 22, and this was later to mean
than she could rightly claim two birth-
days a year—the day of her birth and
the day she came—with an appreciated
celebratory accompaniment of bunny,
minus bones.
It also provided her name. It informed
that, for R.A.S. Show purposes, she had
been registered as Mermanx Minx ; but
then, her sire was shown on it to be
Kipling, a son of former R.A.S. cham-
pion Croxley Rex, and there was that
familiar line by the famous bulldog-faced
poet namesake Kipling to the indisput-
able effect that the Colonel’s Lady and
Judy O’Grady are sisters, under the
skin.
Somehow, the Colonel’s Lady did not
seem quite appropriate for this tomboy
bundle of white furry fluff, whose pads
of feet, for one thing, looked a couple of
sizes too big for her. On the other
hand, while Minx was well enough,
nothing could have been more suitable
than Judy O’Grady—shortened, as she
grew older, to either Judy or O’Grady
(generally known as “the O’Grady”).
As it happened, there was to be a filly
named Colonel’s Lady racing on Sydney
tracks not long afterwards, and one or
two of her performances won —per asso-
ciation place-bets by other son Peter —■
an occasional bunny or piece of cooked
chook for her “sister under the skin.”
The O’Grady was particularly fond ot
those delicacies, and —perhaps also
supporting her naming—was just as par-
tial to a little cooked fish on Fridays
(or any other days, for that matter).
While on this culinary aspect, it might
also be added that she was fond, as well,
of fruit, especially slices of Granny
Smith apple or a cut-up banana.
How many know that their dogs might
be fond of fruit? Even more so, perhaps,
than the old one about an apple a day
keeping the doctor away, a little fruit a
day helps to keep the vet. away (meaning
nothing, of course, in any way uncom-
plimentary to a vet. so kindly, considerate
and competent as Mr. Spira, of Turra-
murra, on Sydney’s North Shore line,
who once or twice helped to keep the
O’Grady in her normal bounding good
health ; and nothing uncomplimentary,
either, to the memory of the late Mr.
Cordery, who once saved her life, when
she, in puppyhood still, develooed
pneumonia—which, earlier, was often
a fatal hazard with the broad-chested
breed).
Anyway, if you can run to it, a little
fruit for your pooch might be surpris-
ingly appreciated, and is better than
medicine. This, it will be understood,
is speaking of dogs as pets ; and if your
pet can't be a member of your family,
share and share alike, why the devil
have one? A personal view of this is
that, instead of a dog—a city dog, that
is—having to be registered at the police-
station, the intending owner should have
to be registered, as a fit and proper person
to keep a dog.
Again, before leaving this eating
aspect, the O’Grady’s taste in bananas
has been, in our experience, a common
fond taste of the breed, and was, it may
be mentioned, also shared by the
O’Grady’s subsequent fellow-boarders —
the possums that used to come nightly
for their meals to the balcony of the
flat we then had at 191 Walker Street,
North Sydney. Indeed, if the O’Grady
had come just a year or two earlier she
would have shared with them in a
splendid banana-win on the Melbourne
Cup.
At that recent time (1947) a slightly
illegal “book” used to run on the Cup
here in The Bulletin office, with most
of the proceeds going to Legacy. In
that particular year the “book” was being
run by son Colin and Bob McKinven
(both now earning a crust elsewhere),
and they fell for a noble hunch. The
inspiration came from the silver-grey of


In that general kennel of hers. ..
the possums and that liking they enthu-
siastically shared with the O'Grady for
bananas. So, with the biggest banana
obtainable held behind my back, I
approached the “books” and asked them
what was the best they could offer about
the grey Hiraji.
“Ah, sir,” said these typical-enough
“books,” “you can do better, sir. Now,
what about a little on So-and-so?” —
naming some hopeless prad on which
nobody but managing-director Ken
Prior, who used to have a last-minute
few bob on each of the unwanteds (for
Legacy), would have a bar of.
“No,” I firmly told them, producing
the whopping yellow banana ; “I want
the odds to this about Hiraji.”
“Oh, well now,” they said ; “let us
see . . . Yes, Hiraji, twelve to one!”
They took the stake, and ate it; and
late that afternoon a long Australian
youth and a blocky young Scot went out
into the street and eventually came back
with a beautiful “hand” of 13 fine big
bananas —possibly the only instance on
record of punting possums ever having
had a win on the Melbourne Cup.
But back on this day of a little later
date, when the O’Grady made her debut,
it had to be insisted that the bringer-in
of her should first of all come home
with me —as a “second,” because of
the Douggie’s tearful “Never, ever,
again!” when we lost, in his 11th year,
the O’Grady’s predecessor, old Punch
(New Zealand-bred Bon Jour Punch, a
son of Bon Jour Digger, to give him
his due honors).
Some may have already met Punch
in the book Australian Journey, written
by one who was subsequently to become
Australia’s Ambassador in Rome —Paul
McGuire. They had met down at the
wonderful Harbor-edge ground-floor flat
we then had near the Yacht Squadron
at Kirribilli, where Punch was teaching
us how kind and gentle and affectionate
and loyal are bulldogs, and how to look
after them properly.
The same Punch, by the way, won
enough ribbons around Sydney shows
to make a couple of rugs for him, and
even once won a cup from one of the
societies, which was never delivered!
The O’Grady was never shown, she being
much more of a prima-donna tempera-
ment than the old boy ; an inheritance
from her grandsire, who sometimes didn’t
like that Sydney Showground at all, and
had to be given a little aspirin now and
then to calm him.
I once, on meeting . Mr. Anthony
Hordern, jnr., of the R.A.S. dog-
committee, suggested to him that
exhibitors should be allowed to take
home their dogs, bulldogs particularly,
if they showed signs of distress, but I
don’t know if anything ever came of it.
In fact, though, a good many dogs,
including some bulldogs, really like
shows, just as racehorses really like
horseracing. Instance that grand old
dark-brindle bulldog bitch who, after her
show-days, was still allowed (against
{Continued on page 45)
regulations) to accompany her bulldog-
importing owner, the late Dr. Green-
well, around the various shows, and
could never have been more happy than
when sitting beside him, to her oldest
age, watching the judging.
Before leaving old Punch: he had a
great liking for unaccompanied free
rides on the Kirribilli ferry, and would
come across to the Quay, get off, stroll
through the turnstiles and on around to
The Bulletin office in George Street—
and take the lift! There was the day
artist-colleague Ted Scorfield, recognising
him, ordered him off at the Kirribilli
wharf in rich Tyneside: “Go hoom,
Poonch! Go hoom!” Punch came
home he naturally understanding
good Geordie, though perhaps wonder-
ing why one so like a bulldog himself
should have acted like that.
There was a certain happy resemblance
to the breed, too, in the cheerful face
of Charlie the Chinaman, who used to
come on his fruit-round when we lived
over at Rushcutter Bay, and the joy of
whose round was to give old Punch the
largest and juiciest ripe Narrabeen plum
in his basket and laugh the laugh of all
the Orient at the dripping juice.
Back, though, on that other day of
the O’Grady’s debut it turned out that
a “second” was superfluous. She en-
countered the Douggie on the back door-
step, and won on a knock-out in a first-
round clinch.
And so the O’Grady came to live her
first four years in that also wonderful
upstairs flat at 191 Walker Street, North
Sydney ; haunt, too, of the tamed wild
possums, both silver-greys and little ring-
tails. There was, though, neither enmity
nor fraternising between pooch and
possums, since she slept soundly by night
in the cosiest room in that general kennel
of hers, in a nook in the kitchen, and
the possums slept elsewhere by day,
coming every evening for their meals,
set out for them on the balcony table,
with the blade-half of a broken Sydney
High School oar as their pathway down
from the balcony eave.
It should be added, perhaps lest
Came nightly for their meals ...


£5OO to
£lOOO P.A.
IN TAX
This Year and
Each Year
for the Next 5 Years
A strictly Limited Offer of
Outstanding Tax Savings
Opportunity to Recipients
of
Higher-than-average
incomes
Particulars by Personal
Interview. For Appoint-
ment, phone—•
MA 9855
D. M. CLARKE
& COMPANY
Tax Consultants
11 Randle Street, Sydney.
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Mag-netting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
eU,. Makers of Classißers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
1G Spring Street, SYDNEY - 27-3444
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
store, account, in the main,
for the increased book-values
of freeholds (up £6889) and
plant and fittings (up £4819).
The Dandenong freehold pur-
chased in ’56 has been ex-
changed for a nearby property
now occupied by G. J. Coles
and Coy., Ltd., and possession
will be available in April 1960.
New lifts are being installed
in the Bourke Street buildings.
Last term saw the final extin-
guishment of the mortgage
debt.
Current assets and liabilities
have shown themselves more
volatile. Working capital, still
of robust proportions, de-
clined £24,985 to £160,363,
reflecting higher holdings of
stock and larger book-debts,
up £5318 and £1174 respect-
ively, and considerably reduced
cash holdings, down £37,041.
Creditors were virtually un-
changed, tax provision fell by
£5671 and monies to the credit
of staff-fund more than
doubled to stand at £46,103 on
balance date:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 300,000 300,000
Reserves .. 1,086,830 1,104,560
Mortgages .. 32,000 —-
Creditors .. 36,733 36,840
Staff fund .. 21,640 22,633
Tax provision .. 51,774 46,103
Final div. .. 30,000 30,000
£1,658,977 £1,640,136
Freehold . . 1*285,546 1,292,435
Plant, fittings,
etc. . . 48,729 53,548
Shares subsidiary 4,188 4,188
Stocks, etc. .. 197,361 202,679
Debtors .. 16,047 17,221
Cash, etc. .. 90,447 53,406
Intangibles .. 16,659 16,659
£1,658,977 £1,640,136
Buttressed by piles of assets,
the £1 prefs. had at February
last, a net tangible backing of
£l4 17s. 7d., and the ords.
£4 12s. 6d.
A subsidiary co., Loddon
Supply, Ltd., formerly the old
London Stores Cafe, -Ltd.
ceased operations some years
ago. Its chief asset is £5300 of
bonds. On August 31, 1958,
it had a debit balance on its
p. and 1. account of £8269.
United Motors, Ltd.
HThe profit-making prowess of
General Motors-Holden’s
tends to overshadow the lesser
lights on the Holden stage. It
must not be forgotten, how-
ever, that they too are sharing,
if less flamboyantly, in this
automobile El Dorado.
Latest co. to hitch its wagon
to the Holden star is United
Motors, of South Australia.
This co. was registered in
Adelaide in 1924. Its present
business embraces the selling
of new and used cars and
parts and accessories, and
extends to the provision of
general service facilities. Last
October, United Motors relin-
quished the metropolitan dis-
tribution in Adelaide of Vaux-
hall motor-vehicles and be-
came one of four metropolitan
distributors for Holden vehicles
—it also handles the Pontiac.
The large profits of ’56 and
’57 have fallen considerably
under pressure of import-
restrictions and the now much
tighter market, yet, by all
standards, present profits are of
most agreeable proportions.
Earning rates on share-capital
for the past four years 1956-59
were 133.3 p.c., 112.4 p.c.,
73.3 p.c. and 63 p.c. respec-
tively. Last term, profits fell
to £28,357, down £4642 on the
year before. This was a reflec-
tion not only of reduced allo-
cations for Vauxhails and the
generally more competitive
tone of the market, but also of
the increased costs of selling
felt in all departments of the
co. In addition, transitional
costs involved in the switch-
over to the Holden franchise
took a large slice out of profits.
Even though earnings fell,
the co. maintained its high
dividend-rate and at the same
time further strengthened its
already solid reserve-backing
by £11,211. The ss. ords.,
currently valued by the share-
market at 295., would return a
6.9 p.c. at last year’s 40
p.c. div.-rate. Profits were
ascertained after writing-off
depreciation on plant, etc.
(amount not disclosed), and
providing £17,000 (down £4OOO
on ’5B) against tax provision:
To Re- Re-
Jan., Prft. ( serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
138,359
’56..60*003 40 = 18,000* 42,003 180,362
Tax rebate vear-endiug Jan.
’5 5, £1896 .. ~ 182,258
’57..50,610 40 s= 18,000* 32,610 214,86 S
Tax overprovided, £2711 .. 217,579
’58..32,999 40 = 18,000* 14,999 232,578
Tax overprovided, £854 . . 233,432
’59..28,357 40 = 18,000* 10,357 243,789
* Includes 20 p.c. bonus div.
With the Holden production-
line continuing to satisfy 50
p.c. of all new-car require-
ments, shareholders can look
forward to the co. increasing
its profits this year. An added
fillip to earnings should flow
from the higher incomes
currently being enjoyed by
primary producers. Lastly, the
possibility, slight as it may be,
that the Federal Budget will
bring an easing sales-tax, must
not be overlooked.
The directors have systemati-
cally proceeded with their policy
of development and improve-
ment of freehold and lease-
hold properties. The former
used-car lot on Franklin Street
has been transformed into a
pleasant suite of modern offices
and with the recent asquisition
of neighbouring showrooms,
the directors make claim that
before the year is out the co.
will boast the biggest and best
Holden show-floor in Adelaide.
Several used-car outlets have
been secured, one adjoining the
Elizabeth South shopping area,
another on the Main North
Road, Enfield, and one on
Pirie Street, opposite the co.’s
main service-station. This and
other expansion has increased
the book-value of property and
plant by £31,717 since 1956:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital. . 45,000 45,000 45,000
Reserves . . 214,868 232,578 243,789
Overdraft .. 17,372
Creditors .. 32,988 23,139 40,344
Tax-provision 75,50.0 21,000 17,000
Final divs. .. 13,500 13,500 13,500
381,856 335,217 377,005
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. 80,067 94,678 97,942
Plant, equip-
ment, etc... 16,390 17,957 18,659
Subsidiary ... 22,508
Investments .. 25,000 2
Stocks .. 165,474 113,230 149,827
Debtors .. 44,323 44,027 87,334
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 50,602 65,295 733
381,856 335,217 377,005
Working capital, less than in.
1958, was still a healthy
£149,678 in ’59. The reduction,
£15,235, of little significance in
itself, reveals on analysis,
interesting movements amongst
the current assets and liabilites.
Stocks and debtors rose by
£36,597 and £43,307 respec-
tively while cash fell £64,562.
Creditors increased by £17,205
and the bank overdraft, pre-
viously non-existent, built up
to £17,372.
Backed by both directors’
confidence and considerable
assets, the ss. ords. had, at
balance-date, a net tangible
cover of 325. Id., clearly
illustrating the growing strength
of the co. From ’56 onwards,
the asset backing per share has
steadily risen, 255. in that vear,
28s. lOd. in ’57 and 30s.'lOd.
in ’5B.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/r
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability)
UNSECURED
LOAN STOCK
With principal and interest unconditionally guaranteed
by General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York
6*
7*
%
per annum
per annum •
. . . . 3 YEARS
.6 and 10 YEARS
£lOO or any multiple thereof may be invested in any or all of the currencies—
-3 years, 6 years, 10 years. GMAC, Australia has the right to repay earlier.
Conditions of repayment, including premiums, are set out ia_the prospectus.
Applications for Loan Stock can be accepted only on the printedform attached to
the prospectus. Copies of full prospectus with application form obtainable from:
CAPITAL CITY OFFICES OF
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, June 23.
TAuring the year to April 1,
1959, the population of
New Zealand increased by
50,600, or 2.22 per cent. Of
this increase the North Island
gained 39,300 and the South
Island 11,300, to make the
total population 2,326,129.
North Island, 1,610,009 ;
South, 716,120.
Provincial populations are:
Auckland, 950,609; Welling-
ton, 451,900; Hawke’s Bay,
108,800; Taranaki, 98,700;
Canterbury, 329,920; Otago,
174,500 ; Southland, 91,800 ;
Nelson, 73,400 ; Marlborough,
27,800; Westland, 18,700.
It is estimated that over the
next 15 years the population
will increase by 30 per cent, to
3,200,000 and that the number
of employable persons will
rise by 50 per cent. This in-
crease will obviously be a
most important factor in indus-
trial development.
Pointers to the future are:
rhe rapid expansion of the
industries based on exotic
forests; a big proposed in-
crease in carpet-manufacturing;
plans for an oil-refinery ; pro-
posals to establish iron, steel
and aluminium industries.
Seven-point Plan
A new era of controlled
industrial expansion was pic-
tured by the Minister of
Industries and Commerce, Mr.
Holloway, in a recent address
in which he explained why the
Government had established a
fund of £ll million in over-
seas exchange to provide
finance for new manufacturing
industries.
Money, he said, would be
allocated to industries which
could prove that they should
be able to: (1) Increase N.Z.’s
exports. (2) Increase the supply
in N.Z. of essential goods. (3)
Implement the increased use
of N.Z. material in goods
which would match competi-
tive-product standards. (4)
Provide N.Z. with finished-
quality materials or goods
which w.ould save overseas-
exchange expenditure, (5)
Solve regional - employment
problems. (6) Make more
efficient use of factories
already established, in the
interests of the national
economy. (7) Help promote
keener competition with N.Z.
industry which would result
in better-quality and lower-
priced consumer-goods.
A large inflow of overseas
investment capital in the next
few years was predicted by
Mr. Holloway. He said he
believed the rate of invest-
ment, on a comparative basis,
would be “greater than the rate
of investment even in Australia
today.”
Paper Industry
New Zealand is quickly
changing from a net importer
to a net exporter of paper,
cardboard and wood-pulp.
Details of trade in pulp, paper
and board in the last five years
are given in the following
tables:
Pulp.
■ Imports Exports
(£000) (£000)
1954 .. .. 253 816
1955 .. .. 256 1,137
"1956 .. ... 196 1.990
1957 .. .. 408 2,635
1958 .. .. 352 2,371
Paper and Board.
Imports Exports
(£000) (£000)
1954 .. .. 5,684 nil
1955 .. .. 7,583 67
1956 .. .. 6,239 1,705
1957 .. .. 6,748 2,457
1958 .. .. 6,665 2,905
Factory production in
1957-58 rose by 7.2 per cent,
in volume of output over the
previous year—a rate of
increase that has been exceeded
only once since 1949-50, a
survey by the Government
Statistician shows. The survey
covers 80 per cent, of the
labor-force engaged in manu-
facturing activity. All estab-
lishments of considerable size
are included. Added value, at
£227,190,598, shows a rise of
9.8 per cent, over that for
1956-57.
The Shell B.P. Todd
Petroleum Co., which has
spent more than £1,250,000 on
the search for oil in Taranaki,
is not now hopeful of success.
With the drill down more than
10,600 ft. it has found only
coal. Drilling will start in the
Gisborne district before the
end of this year.
Overseas reserves continue to
climb satisfactorily. At June
10 they stood at £94.3 million,
against £5O million a year
before and £llO.B million two
years before. Opening his
case in the Arbitration Court
for a general wage-increase,
the president of the Federation
of Labor, F. P. Walsh, pre-
dicted that before the end of
the year reserves would be
more than £lOO million.
“This year,” he said, “we
will have all-time record
receipts for exports, and I
estimate them to be £3OO
million. The black clouds are
lifting and the sun in shining
again.”
The amount received for
exports in 1958-59 was £273.6
million, compared with £274
million in 1957-58, £275.3 mil-
lion in 1956-57 and £273.3
million in 1955-56.


Of "Where the Pelican Builds"....
Mary Hannay Foott
By BETHIA FOOTT
Mary Hannay Foott
was born in Glasgow
in 1846 and died in
Brisbane in 1910,
which is too long ago for
many people to remember
her; yet she deserves to be
remembered, not only for her
charming little poem “Where
the jPelican Builds Its Nest”
but because she was one of the
first women journalists in
Australia, a career forced on
her by early widowhood.
Her elder son, Cecil, became
my husband's father, and in
the lighthearted way in which
a happy family laughs at the
tribulations of days that are
passed, when no anecdote can
be told too often, his story of
their long journey across the
Black Soil Country from Dun-
doo (on the Warrego, in the
south-west corner of Queens-
land) to Brisbane was one of
our favorites. Their privations
increased with every telling,
until, added to and embroid-
ered by us ali, Mary and her
baby, Arthur, were led down
the long, kangaroo-infested
track by the resourceful Cecil
(aged six), who gallantly fed
his emaciated mother and
brother with sardines from
their last tin, reserving for him-
self merely the oil to salve his
blackened, sunburnt lips.
This story, and others like
it, were mostly apocryphal,
and (as those who remember
General Foott will know) lost
nothing in the telling. But
they left me with a sense of
anxiety. Why did Mrs. Foott
have such a harrowing jour-
ney? Why, when they had
previously lived in such com-
fortable circumstances, were
they, on her husband’s death,
reduced to penury? What sort
of a woman was she? And
what did she look like?
To answer the last question
first, judging by her photo-
graph, she resembled the lady
described by John Aubrey,
who had “a most lovely and
sweet-turned face, delicate
darke-brown haire. A per-
fectly healthy constitution;
her face a short ovall, darke-
brown eie brows about which
much sweetness, as also in the
opening of her eie lidds ; of a
just stature, not very tall, wore
her haire short, curly, natur-
ally turned up, which is a sign
of a brisque witt.” The mem-
bers of her family in the
present generation appear to
answer this description well,
and if Mrs. Foott resembled
her great-nieces, then she was
also endowed with a kind
heart and an effortless beauty.
From her photograph, too,
the tilt of her head and the
delicate column of her neck
gives her a fragile appearance,
like those women —1 suppose
they did once exist?—who
were, as they say, “meant” to
be shielded from the rougher
paths of life, and whose
sternest task was to be a
charming and ornamental
hostess. And was she? She
was not.
TTer early life must have
been a particularly happy
one, for her parents, James
and Margaret Black, were
devoted to each other and to
their children. All through the
many years of their happy
companionship, they kept each
other’s letters, pasting them in
a book, with pencilled com-
ments in their margins. Mr.
Black’s first letter from Mar-
garet Grant ends with his
note: “I have read this with
delight. My first epistle from
M. An era in my life. 4 P,
Saturday evening, July, 1843.”
Soon after this they were
married, and in one of their
short partings he wrote to her,
“while Jessie is preparing tea,
and your mother is knitting
stockings. Here comes the tea-
pot. I must close this, and say
I am unable to tell you how
dearly 1 love you.” He may
have thought he found it
difficult to tell her how much
he loved her, but, as he
endeavored to do so each time
they were parted, he became
pretty good at it. When they
had been married for nearly
“This looks like one of those rocket-ranges—
better keep clear!"
40 years, he wrote to her for
her birthday:
The sun may sooner cease to rise
The stars to shine above thee,
Than Jamie will forget his prize,
Or ever cease to love thee, Maggie,
Or ever cease to love thee.
I remember my mother,
Ethel Anderson, once reading
this.
“What shocking verse! ”
She was appalled —but then
her eyes glowed: “But what a
tribute! ”
Vl7hen James and Margaret
had been married for
some years, and had three chil-
dren, Mary Hannay, James
and Cecilia, they decided to
emigrate to Australia. Mr.
Black came on to find
a house in Melbourne, and on
June 15, 1853, Margaret, her
three children, her'maid Jane
Matheson, and Margaret Hep-
burn, the children’s nurse, left
to join him in the Ivanhoe for
Port Phillip, Australia.
It is interesting to read on
the ticket that each passenger
was allowed not less than 10
cubic-feet for luggage, and that
the six of them were to be
victualled during the voyage,
and during time of detention
in any place before its ter-
mination, for a total cost of
£l2O. In addition to any pro-
visions which they brought on
board themselves, each passen-
ger was allowed the following
quantities of water and pro-
visions, “to be issued daily by
the Master of the ship as
required by law, viz., to each
adult three quarts of water
daily, and a weekly allowance
of provisions according to the
following scale":
Biscui.ts, 341 b.; beef, 241 b.;
pork, lylb.; preserved meat,
241 b.; soups, etc., 41b.; flour;
41b.; rice, lib.; split-peas, 41t>4
oatmeal, lib.; suet, 60z.;
butter, 60z.; cheese, 40z.; pre-
served apples, 40z.; tea, lyoz.;
coffee, 30z.; sugar, lib.;
molasses, 41b.; raisins,
preserved-milk, 4 pint; salt,
20z.; pepper, \oz.\ mustard,
40z.; vinegar, 4 gill; limejuice,
4 gill; water, 21 quarts.
The food was kept by the
passengers in' their cabins,
which were not only their


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SUUJVAN
LX PTY - LTD JL
St. '.fOi t
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
sleeping- and living-quarters
but also served as their kit-
chens. Their meals were
cooked in these dark caverns
on open, high-legged braziers,
and why more ships were not
burnt at sea I do not know,
for the fire-risks from these,
and from the lanterns hanging
from the rafters, must have
been considerable.
However, the Ivanhoe sur-
vived these and other dangers,
and Mrs. Black and her three
children settled-down very
happily in the house her hus-
band had bought for them in
the Melbourne suburb of
Mordialloc. Here, in due
course, two more children
were born. Balmain, who was
called after her father’s sister,
and the youngest of the family,
Archie.
TTncle Archie, his sisters and
his brother were all edu-
cated in Melbourne. Archie
and James both became doc-
tors, but Mary’s tastes lay with
the arts. She first began to
write poetry while still at
school. Her first poem won
her a medal from the Victorian
Caledonian Society, and from
then on she became a regular
contributor to Melbourne
“Punch,” “The Australasian”
and the “Town and Country
Journal.” When she left
school she went to the Mel-
bourne Art Gallery, where her
tutors* were von Guerard and
Louis Buvelot. She gained a
First Certificate at the Art
Students’ Exhibition in 1874.
This was a momentous time
for her, for it was then that
she left home to teach at the
Wagga Grammar School, but
before the year was out she
was married. Her parents were
friends of James and Henrietta
Foott (about whom I have
written in these pages). Her
brother James married their
daughter Etta, and on October
1, 1874, Mary married their
eldest son, Thomas Wade
Foott. They were .married in
Dubbo by the Rev. Mr.
Mullens, and went to live in
Bourke, near Tom’s childhood
home of Fort Bourke station.
Their son Cecil was born
there in 1876, and in the same
year Tom went into partner-
ship with his father-in-law, and
went to manage their new
sheep-run, Dundoo, on the
Warrego. Their new house, on
Yowah Creek, 60 miles north-
west of Eulo, was built of
pise, with a thatched roof.
Mary must have loved arrang-
ing the Foott possessions
(which Tom, as the eldest son,
had inherited from his father)
as much as I did when my
husband inherited them from
his father 70 years later.
Among other things, she
would have had some of the
beautiful Queen Anne silver
which it is my great delight to
use today. Then, she would
have had the blue-and-gold
dinner-set with her father-in-
law’s initials on a central
shield; also some charming
pictures, and the table-silver
stamped with the Foott crest.
This crest, which is very old,
depicts a most unlikely-looking
pelican with a very small beak,
pecking away at its breast,
under the mistaken impression
that its fledglings would prefer
a drop of blood to a good
square meal of fish. .1 am sure
this archaic* Irish version of a
strange bird must have handed
the Australian pelicans the
laugh of the year if they ever
caught sight of it.
TAundoo was surrounded by
the properties of Comon-
gin, Ardoch, Tilberoo, Home-
burn and Yowah. It numbered
among its own runs Dundoo,
Marathon East, Retrac,
Moolya North, Cecil Downs
and Cecil Plains, an area of
339 square-miles, and for a
time it prospered.
In 1879 the Bourke “Tele-
graph” reported that “The
bullocks which arrived from
Messrs. Black and Foott’s
station were really beautiful
animals, and we intend next
week to ascertain the dead
weight of some of them, so
that readers may see that
Dundoo can produce excellent
cattle.”
These were the happiest days
of Mary’s ilfe. The pise home-
stead, its thatched roof snugly
insulated against heat and cold
alike, had eight large rooms
opening onto wide verandas.
Beyond the house the well-
tended fruit and vegetable
gardens (cared for by a
Chinese gardener) were
bounded by a post-and-rail
fence in front, and surrounded
at the back by the meat-house,
tankstands, stables, store,
blacksmith’s shop, and all the
other buildings which, in those
days, were essential to the
safety and well-being of a
homestead community.
Caring for her husband, for
Cecil, and for Arthur, the new
baby, as well as for all the
men on the station, both white
and black, kept Mary delight-
fully busy. She had never
been so happy! She was a
romantic at heart, completely
(my sister-in-law has told me)
disinterested in the running of
a house. She never minded
what she ate, so an unalloyed
diet of salt-meat was no hard-
ship to her.
She never minded, either,
that the mud floors of the
homestead meant that the
whole house lay under a con-
stant film of red dust. She
only rejoiced to know that,
because such floors could
neither be brushed nor
scrubbed, she had more time
to be out with Tom. He was
a magnificent horseman, and
she went out with him as often
as she could. They went to
dances in Bourke ; had count-
less people to stay, and took
the children for picnics, as
Cecil’s first letter to his grand-
father shows. He was four
years old when he wrote:
My dear Grandpapa.
We had a ride to Boogaloonga.
Papa is going to make a buggy
with a box for Arthur and me to
drive the two goats in. Do you
remember the fall we had down
at the creek? If we fell in now
we would have to swim, the water
is cold.
Good-night, your loving grandson
, Cecil.
T have said that Tom and
Mary adored each other.
The little boys were strong
and gay. The station pros-
pered, and all was very well
in their little world. Their
stock fetched good prices.
Sheep were Bs. a head ; cattle,
£2 10s.; and horses —that is,
the ordinary horses kept for
station-work alone—could be
sold any day for £l2 a head.
Mary thought her husband
was wonderful. He was so
clever ; so good ; so true. She
read him “The Lady of the
Lake” (which I expect he
hated), using a small, cloth-
bound, 1838 edition, marking
in the margins those stanzas
which she felt most nearly
described her husband. Sir
Walter Scott, she considered,
could have had only one man
in mind when he wrote:
His stately mein as well implied
A high-born heart, a martial
pride ....
His ready speech flowed fair and
free,
In phrase of gent’lest courtesy;
Yet seemed that tone and gesture
bland,
Less Used to sue than to command.
Well! He was a perfect
husband, and a fond father.
That much is incontestably
true. But his father-in-law,
by now well versed in country
conditions, with big holdings
stretching from Victoria to
Queensland, considered him
impetuous and undependable.
He felt, I have heard, that
Tom did not work hard
enough, and expected things
to come to him too easily.
Nobody now can know who
was right. Perhaps Mary’s
husband was at fault. But,
alas, carrying out his family’s
tragic tradition, he was also a
sick man. On January 10,
1884, he telegraphed his father-
in-law about some business
deal, “Do nothing till you hear
from me. Writing. Very ill.”
That letter was never written,
for a few days later Mary sent
a telegram to her father:
“Tom became very ill on Tues-
day. Died this day.”
''That was in January. Mr.
A Black came up to her at
once, and by the first week
in February he was on his way
back to Melbourne. Dundoo
had belonged to him, and
when he sold it for £25,480,
the stock-losses from the
recent drought were so great
that he barely got his money
back. He had already given
Mary £2000, but he was not
able to do more to help her.
He had many other commit-
ments. His son James was ill,
and had to sell his practice
and his house in Mittagong,
and,' except for Archie, all his
children needed his help.
0 Continued on page 44)


What’s Wrong; with
Sydney Hospital?
By MONTMORENCY MOUSETOOTH
An unemployed citizen of Sydney,
I’m sorely troubled with the
burning-itching-frequency. Sitting
in Hyde Park, very damp and
very dejected, I decide to do something
about this b.-i.-f. The date is March 29,
1959. I present myself at the gate of
Sydney Hospital at 2.30 p.m. An elderly
gentleman in an ill-fitting tan-calico coat,
which seems to be the uniform of lesser
employees of Sydney Hospital, directs
me to Out Patients. I line-up behind
about 38 other people in various stages
of distress and finally reach the portion
of the counter marked “Inquiries.” I
am then directed to the other end of
the counter, where I fill-in a form.
I hand this form to a slightly superior
young lady. Eyeing me with apparent
disapproval, she asks the reason for my
unemployment. I explain that during
Lent everyone should give-up something.
An hour later she sends me back to
Inquiries,- where I’m told (in broken
English) that I'm to see a doctor and
that will be “ten shillings, pliss.”
At 4.59 p.m. I see a doctor. At least,
I presume he is. A young, earnest bloke
in a white coat, the usual deathoscope
clinging to his neck and his paddles
enclosed in a pair of football-boots
painted white.
He asks my age, marital state and
previous illnesses. Takes my temperature
and tests my blood-pressure. He also
keeps ducking in and out a lot. (He's
probably contracted my b.-i.-f.) Even-
tually he writes something on a white
card and tells me to take it back to
Out Patients. I do so. Out Patients fails
to decipher this communique and I’m
sent to see the Registrar. Much later the
Registrar sees me. He asks my age,
marital state and previous illnesses. He
tries to read the young bloke’s findings,
but fails miserably. Baffled, he gives me
a script for Dispensary and sends me
back to Out Patients.
A t Out Patients I'm given a card
instructing me to present myself to
Urology on April 2 at 2.30 p.m., and to
bring a specimen. On the way out I
collect from Dispensary a bottle of physic
and some phtenobarb-tablets. Price, seven-
bob.
On April 2, as instructed, I present
myself again at Out Patients. In my back
pocket, in a nicely-cut scent-bottle, is
the specimen. After payment of ten-bob,
I’m directed to Urology. I’m punctual—
-2.30 p.m. finds me sitting on a very
uncomfortable bench awaiting the call.
At 3.45 p.m. it comes, and in I go. The
Urologist asks me my age, marital state
and previous illnesses. After a little
thought he hands me a bottle and indi-
cates a cubicle,
“Doctor,” say I, “if it’s a specimen
you’re needing, I’ve heeded instructions
and brought one.”
“That’s no good,” says he. “The bottle
hasn’t been scalded.”
Abashed, I go to the cubicle and, after
specimenating, wait. The doctor comes
and takes away the bottle. Later, he
reappears.
“Right,” he says. “Now we’ll have a
look at you.”
I’ll spare the painful details of the
“look,” but after it’s over, the Urologist
gives me his written conclusions for
Out Patients and a chit for pills for
Dispensary. The ladies at Out Patients
interpret the conclusions as meaning I’m
to be X-rayed, and “that’ll be £2 Bs.,
pliss.” Dispensary doesn’t have the pills,
so, rather nervously, 1 goose-step care-
fully towards X-ray.
■Oehind the inquiry-counter at X-ray is
a very superior type in a violet
ensemble. Delicate hand - gestures ;
delicate hair - pattings ; very delicate
fingerings of shoulder-straps. In a Point
Piper accent I’m told to be seated. I
decline. (I’m still mindful of the “look.”)
1 have rather a long wait at X-ray
and as the slowly westering sun sinks,
so do my spirits. One sun-ray finds its
way into X-ray and I detect a faint glow
above a metal locker. I amble across to
inspect. The glow comes from the edge
of a brass plate attached to the wall
behind the locker. 1 edge the locker
aside and find that the plate was put
there to the memory of a man, aged 37,
who died from disabilities received from
his devotion to duty in this very X-ray
department. 1 hope he doesn't know his
memorial is now hidden behind a locker:
While, I’m brooding on the fate of this
chap, at 4.50 p.m., I am hailed by a
bloke with longish yellow hair, snake-
proof grey jeans, and red moccasins.
“Are you Mr. Mousetooth?” he in-
quires.
I admit it, and am asked to step this
way. I follow him to the X-ray machine
and, while he warbles a hit-parade tune,
I lay me on the table. Somewhere in
the middle of the song the lens of the
apparatus is aimed at me and that’s it.
I’ve been X-rayed.
I’m then told to report to the M.O.’s
office. I’m very uncomfortable when I
get there. Too many superior-type
females. All doing nothing, as far as
I can see. Though they brighten-up when
any of the deathoscope-brigade wander in.
After waiting some time I’m asked
can I be admitted to hospital on a date
far distant. Ever ready to co-operate, I
say I can.
“Verray whell,” says the head s.-t.-f.,
“Take these papers to the first floor and
see the Assessor.”
/~\N the first floor I find several of my
earlier acquaintances from Urology
also waiting. All are standing in a state
of deep melancholy, and all look as if
they’ve lost something precious. Perhaps
it's their faith in human nature.
The Assessor (much later), asks my
age, marital state and previous illnesses.
1 wonder why they do that. Probably
some psychiatric reason for it. 1 confide
in him implicitly and explain that I’m
jobless.
“Deplorable,” says he. “Tell you what
I'll do. As the admission-date is far
distant, I’ll charge you full price. You’ll
probably be working by then.”
Perhaps I will be —but my insides won't.
Rather a well-mannered type, though,
the Assessor. As he wishes me good-
night, he hands me a bill for £6 165.,
explains about the paper ordering me
to have a blood-count taken and tells
me not to fail to report to Medical on
April 6.
On April 6, at 1.30 p.m., I again present
myself at Out Patients. When my turn
comes to front the cashier I’m fined ten-
bob and told to sit down. I do so. At
3.43 p.m. I hear a female voice inquiring
for me. A nice, elderly nursing-sister
asks me to step through a portal. A
very, very gentle person she is—until she's
weighed me. When she finds she’s four-
stone heavier than I, she becomes most
aggressive. She demands my specimen.
1 explain what happened at Urology.
“They’re mad,” she snaps. “Any old
pickle-bottle will do.”
The oyster-bottle she hands me is taken
from a canister of boiling-water.
At 4.40 p.m. I’m admitted to the
•*"*- Medical feller. Very earnest, very
young and very conscious of the old
deathoscope restricting full use of the
vocal cords. Quite a decent bloke, though.
He asks my age, marital state and
previous illnesses. I also tell him I’m
jobless. Happening upon my blood-count
paper, he bellows, “I want this taken now.
Go and see to it.”
I go at once, but Pathology won’t see
to it. Blood-counts are taken only in
the morning, thank you very much. I
{Continued on page 54)


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
7ahmmy and Jack
"VTot even excluding the Mel-
bourne Cup, what sporting
event today stirs-up anything
like the Australia-wide interest
and excitement that once arose
over quite a number of out-
standing sport happenings?
I have still in memory, in
particular, the general to-do
over the Burns-Johnson fray in
1908 —probably the daddy of
them all in the following it got.
I didn’t witness it, being 500
miles away and a bit youngish,
but sporting journals and
others served-up daily the
doings of the two pugs, aided
by newsreel silents, while in
trams, trains, at office-desks
and at mealtimes the coming
contest was the main topic for
months before the event.
Burns (I remember) had the
better press and publicity in
every way. Apart from those
with the good-oil from the
“stable,” the majority of fight
addicts —and “experts”! —pre-
dicted a win for Burns. Many
followers of the game who had
seen him giving away weight in
the flesh and on the films
tipped the Canadian to “eat”
Johnson.
The negro arrived in Aus-
tralia, uninvited, unheralded
and practically unknown
actually looking for Bill
Squires. He expressed disgust
when told that Bill was on his
way to the U.S.A. after a
rousing send-off for the ill-
fated one-round, one-punch
meeting with Burns.
Burns on arrival had become
champion by beating “Phila-
delphia” Jack O’Brien, Ire-
land’s Jim Flynn and Gunner
Moir, of England, and some
others; all second-raters by
earlier and later heavy-
weight standards. But they hap-
pened to be champions of their
respective countries who, like
Tahmmy, had side-stepped the
colored Johnson, Langford and
McVey. O’Brien was probably
the best of the other whites,
and his 20-round points defeat
by Burns was reported as a
dubious affair at the time.
As for the Burns-Johnson
meeting, when Tahmmy
stepped through the ropes,
Johnson, flashing his literally
golden smile, strode across the
ring, and with simulated bon-
homie extended his hand to
the champion. Burns, discom-
fited, after momentary hesita-
tion, accepted , the black’s
gesture with less than warmth.
The physical contrast of the
two was confirmed by the
weights announced: Burns,
list. 13i1b.; Johnson, 13st.
The Match
OF I FIE
Seasoh
[SORTHEDN
► MERVJS
PERgP/\^7
FI/mikeH
3- nr.
Just ft Few orlue
-.Be Miry
I I /,^hqrus!
r H.C.
y CATCHEs^oe
VPeSe/ /
v Pa«*./ >
>R.cV
L MENOeC?SOK.
J /CIkPTWS "A
' 1 NORTHE.RH/
John buLLi teyiy'l
J.YJo.c,c,oit<J>a.„'
6.1?0c.5.0*4
VJ, ,
Alexas osr
w,
Y<«ULft,Cl=,
* SR *
When Bulletin artist and former English Rugby Union international
Ted Scorfield was playing for the Northumberland club-team of
Percy Park he used regularly to cartoon the outstanding games, on
the lines of this “Match of the Season” between his own team and
Northern. After Ted had been given almost unsurvivable send-offs,
when coming to The Bulletin job that he’s now been holding down
-—and how! —for some 30-odd years, the Northumberlanders published
a selection of the cartoons in a souvenir booklet entitled “Cartoons
by Ted Scorfield (The Old English International),” from which booklet
came the abdve typical examples. Mentioned elsewhere in this present
issue, among other strongly resembling friends in “O’Grady: A
Memory,” Ted is also at present represented by his old, deep-claret,
silver-piped and large-tasselled English international cap in the place
of honor among a collection of old sporting-caps (giving a boost to
the touring Lions), in W. A. Oldfield’s sports-shop windows, up the
hill at 54 Hunter Street —a shop, it should be added, as neat as Bert
Oldfield’s ’keeping behind the sticks used to be, and they don’t come
neater than that.
101 b. The poundage also sug-
gested pre-fight apprehension
and overtraining by the lighter
man.
From the film sequences one
felt that the fight was pro-
longed at Johnson’s pleasure,
and that the blackamoor could
have ended the scrap any time
it suited him.
From the Johnson angle it
was a perfect revenge for the
“yellow streak” and other
jibes of his opponent over
many months. The “yellow
streak” idea was widely held
and published. It was believed
to be inherent in all negroes.
The myth was exploded, never
to be quoted again.
'lt could be a tribute to
Burns’s class as a boxer that
he bore no badges of his trade.
More handsome than the
majority of pugs, in a well-
shaped head he had a small,
straight nose, unblemished ears
and well-protected, deep-set
eyes. His only mark, a thin
scar near his _temple, was in-
flicted —so Burns claimed —by
a lacrosse-stick during a game
in his native Canada.
The glamor of both had
waned when they arrived in
Brisbane (separately) some
weeks after the Sydney scrap,
and each attracted only meagre
crowds. Johnson appeared in
a short programme one night
at the Exhibition Ground.
After some skipping and a dis-
play of his superb biceps and
back-muscles, Johnson showed
his speed and evasiveness in
a few rounds of sparring with
Bob Bryant (a smart Sydney
welter of that time), toyed with
a local lad, and clowned with
a drunk who had staggered
into the ring spluttering a
boozy challenge.
The negro was out to please,
and his deportment got him a
good reception. Called upon
for a speech at the finish ho
made a good- fist of it, and
gained more applause by ex-
pressing pleasure at meeting
such “fair and broadminded
people.”
Tommy spent some time
driving round Brisbane city in
a new 1908-model car, and
appeared to enjoy life. As a
special attraction, he was co-
opted to referee a lacrosse-
match at the Exhibition
Ground, but the “gimmick”
was only mildly successful. I
can recall little of the occasion,
beyond the spectacle of an un-
conditioned and somewhat
beefy Burns in his new role,
ambling through the game and
tootling on a toy whistle. But'
he was undoubtedly a great
fighter in his own light-heavy-
weight class.
Austin Lennon.
• * *
Long-playing Record
“Cremor”: Following Jimmy
Burke’s retirement from first-
class cricket comes Clarrie
Hogue’s exit from the game
he’s been playing since 1887.
- Playing throughout the “golden
age,” Hogue actually turned-out
regularly for 72 years (a record
which should stand for many years)
and always claimed he was never
once —during his long innings—
out 1.b.w.l
For North Sydney his perform-
ances were outstanding. As Dr.
Hordern and Bert Hopkins were
probably two of the finest trundlers
that Sydney grade-cricket has pro-
duced, it is interesting to compare
their records with Hogue’s.
Dr. Hordern, in 15 years of first-
grade cricket (1900-15), took
194 wickets, average 15.53, while
Bert Hopkins, in 26 seasons
(1895-1921), took 384 at an average
of 18.19. Hogue entered North’s
first XI in 1915 and played till
1926, collecting in those 11 seasons
269 wickets. His full tally was
actually 319 wickets at an average
of 19, as no averages were issued


with the 1915-16 and 1916-17
seasons’ reports.
Leaving first-grade to take charge
of the Shires XI in 1926, Hogue
scored 700 runs and took 53
wickets in his first season. Between
1926 and 1941 he took, in each of
14 seasons, between 50 and 70
wickets. Playing later with North
Sydney City and Suburban Associa-
tion XI, he also took over 50
wickets a season three times.
Before Hogue’s record, Dr. Grace
and Sydney Grammar School master
G. P. Barbour held the record with
56 years’ active participation each.
Incidentally, Hogue has been a
regular reader of The Bulletin
since 1893—which may be close to
a record, too.
* * *
The Horses
Performances at recent fix-
tures point to Grey Ghost,
Second Earl, New Farm,
Fountainhead, Squander Lad,
Fuss and Felidoma all being
well in the picture for this com-
ing Saturday’s big race in
Brisbane, the Doomben Ten
Thousand. Gold Stakes will
be set the task of winning first-
up after a brief spell, but he
has galloped well in Brisbane,
and with 9.3 seems favorably
placed in view of his brilliant
performances jn the autumn
in Melbourne and in Sydney.
Second Earl and Felidoma won
races last Saturday, and
altogether the big sprint seems,
on paper, the most open for
years.
Selections for the Ten
Thousand: Gold Stakes, 1 ;
Second Earl, 2; Fountain-
head, 3.
\
Midswain, winner of the
W. D. Ross Stakes for two-
year-olds at Eagle Farm last
Saturday, could, on breeding,
develop into a useful stayer ;
his pedigree-background in-
cludes Old Rowley (1940 Mel-
bourne Cup), Barallan (Q.T.C.
St. Leger and Queensland
Cup), and Jungle Law (Queens-
land Cup). The colt is by
Coxswain, a son of Midstream
(imp.)—Coxswain has sired
several smart winners in Bris-
bane. Midswain’s dam, Ina’s
Robe, is by Heroic’s Double
from Fan Palm by Fayal, and
has thrown other winners on
Brisbane tracks.
*“ * *
A.J.C. handicapper Ken
Goodwin must have viewed the
concluding two races at War-
wick Farm last Saturday with
special satisfaction. He
couldn’t have brought the
finishes much closer together.
In the Fraser Handicap Ed-
spell and Tranquilette ran a
dead-heat, with El Rocco a
neck away third, while in the
Welter Mile six of the 14
starters crossed the line with
only the barest daylight be-
tween them ; a photo-finish for
all the placings, the verdict
going to Luck’s a Fortune by
a nose from Zaheida, with
Eudare a nose away third. And
very close next were Dantes-
que, Hurry By and Grand
Magic. Ken Goodwin, one of
the younger genefation of
handicappers, is doing a very
sound job.
When betting opened on the
first race at Warwick Farm,
the First Novice for two-year-
old fillies, few patrons of the
paddock tbok any notice of
the 14 to 1 on the boards
against Game Trail’s name, but
they became interested when
“Leave the shave till afterwards — you’re Wasting
the battery !”
bets to win very tidy sums
were booked in one line, and
the filly’s price quickly tumbled
to 7 to 1, at which she started,
third favorite. Evidently she
had shown former country
trainer Pat Hunt a winning
trial. She won her first race
at Hawkesbury late in
January; the Warwick Farm
success was her second, but she
had also shaped well in a race
won by Prince Osborne at
Canterbury Park earlier in
June. She’s by Rego (imp.)
from Rokoda.
Every race-day there are
hard-luck stories of horses that
“should have,” but one that
could turn-out different from
the usual is Indian Sari, third
to Little Loveli at Warwick
Farm. She had a stormy pas-
sage in the seven-furlongs race.
* * *
First National
The National meeting opens
at Flemington next Saturday,
with the Grand National
Hurdle, first leg of the most
important jumping-double on
the Australian calendar. Run
over three miles, it’s a tough
test for horse and rider. There
are 15 hurdles, and, not sur-
prisingly, heavily - weighted
horses find it hard to win;
since its inauguration in 1881
only 14 of the winners have
carried over list. Heaviest
weight carried successfully was
the 11.13 Don Quixote lumped
in 1884, but the most memor-
able performance was Cheery
Jack’s win in 1940, when he
carried 11.7 and set a time-
record of 5.28.
No other sire has had such
an influence on jumping-races
in Melbourne as David. Be-
tween 1940 and 1946 five of
the Grand National Hurdle
winners were by that horse.
Frank Douglas, with four
winners, has the best riding-
record in the race.
Betting on next Saturday’s
National should be wide. At
time of writing, Fordell rules
as favorite, but with his 11.3
he has the task in front of
him. Gay Ranick is in nicely
with only 9.7, and will be
ridden by Brian Smith. Last
year’s winner, Resotto, has had
an interrupted preparation, but
if trainer Ray Bones can get
him to the post fit he should
go close again. Hillwood and
Orford are two that jump well
and impress as likely to get
the distance.
m i
Selections for the Grand
National Hurdle: Gay Ranick,
1 ; Hillwood, 2 ; Resotto, 3.
• • • •
Last year the Federal Hurdle
(two miles, one furlong) at
Moonee Valley proved a sound
National guide, when the
winner, Resotto, went on to
take the big Flemington race.
Gay Ranick, who won the
Federal last Saturday by a
great space, could also com-
plete the double. It must be
conceded that the field in the
Federal was a long way short
of National class, and also
admitted that this was Gay
Ranick’s first jumping-success.
However, no horse could have
won the race more easily. He
had 12 lengths to spare from
runner-up Almando, with Top
Rail a further 20 lengths away,
third.
Now a six-year-old, Gay
Ranick was rated one of the
best gallopers in Australia as
a three-year-old, when he was
placed in the A.J.C. Derby and
St. Leger. In the winter of ’57
he scored a hat-trick of wins
at Warwick Farm and Rose-
hill, and no horse in the
National field next week will
have a better flat-record. Brian
Smith rode him in the Federal.
Gay Ranick is owned by F.
Gilder and J. K. Thompson,
and Saturday could be a
remarkable day for Thompson,
who is also part-owner of
Gold Stakes, fancied runner in
the Doomben Ten Thousand.
It is not often a horse gets
such a round of applause for
running third as Van Perri did
in last Saturday’s Common-
wealth Steeple. With the £125
he earned the 10-year-old
Perricoota gelding became the
greatest stake-winning jumper
ever to race in Australia. It
was appropriate that he should
have achieved the record in the
Commonwealth Steeple, a race
he has won three times and
been placed in twice. It is
unlikely that even his owner,
Reg Ansett, would claim that
Van Perri is as good as his
stake-winnings (now £15,375)
suggest. He lacks the stamina
to win a National or Austra-
lian Hurdle, and, moreover, he
has built-up his earnings almost
exclusively at the Valley, where
he has scored 14 of his 19
wins. Still, he has, in all, run
in 87 races and been placed in
41 of them.
Rio Robin won the Com-
monwealth Steeple, the first
race the five-year-old Rio Fe
gelding has ever won. He cer-
tainly improved remarkably
on his previous run, when he
finished last in the Hopetoun
Steeple at Flemington. He's in
the National on the 9.0 mini-
mum, and his success has
earned him a start in the big
race. However, most people
marked down two other
runners in the Commonwealth
as better National prospects.
Adelaide jumper Tudor Cap
made up nearly 20 lengths on
the winner over the last fur-
long for second-money, and


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEVIN PATRICK RANKIN late of
41 Campbell Street Queanbeyan in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH JEAN
RANKIN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 158 of 1959 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydiley by 31st day
of August 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. E. R. MANN & CO., Soli-
citors, of 42 Bridge Street, Sydney.—
<J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
on that run and his Adelaide
record he has moved up
sharply In National discussions.
Egalite, who started favorite
in the Commonwealth, is a
proved hurdler, but this was
his first attempt at fencing ; he
seemed to have the race won
until he made one mistake and
toppled over. It was a harm-
less fall, and unless the error
makes him too cautious he
could be a real National
chance.
Ned Courtney, who is 73,
and his son Brian each trained
a winner at the Valley. Brian’s
was Dhaulagiri, who took the
mile Piccaninny Handicap. A
High Peak youngster, Dhaula-
giri revelled in the heavy
going ; his dam, Solar Circle,
is by Solar Bear, which
explains the colt’s liking for a
wet track. There are more
winter successes ahead of him.
Ned Courtney’s winner was
Lady Heathmont, who took
the second heat of the Melba
Handicap, a race for two-year-
old fillies, run over six furlongs
less 20yds. A Meadow Mist,
youngster out of Lundie, and
with her sire’s typical grey
_coat, she led from barrier to
post and ran home strongly.
Quite the best run of any
galloper at the Valley was
Summer Honeymoon’s win in
the 13-furlongs Ardoch Handi-
cap. Only a small and lightly-
built three-year-old filly, she
carried 8.4 in open company
and beat an f.-a.-q. winter-
handicap field most decisively.
It was her second win In a row;
she had been equally impres-
sive in winning over 14 fur-
longs in the Birthday Handicap
at the Flemington Queen’s
Birthday meeting. By Helios
from Bowknot, she gives the
impression that she could
develop into a stayer well
above average.
* * *
Other Sports
Most interesting result in the
ninth round of the V.F.L. was
South’s stopping of Carlton’s
unbeaten run, 14.21-14.11 —on
Carlton’s home-ground, too. It
was a rather fiery game,' in
which South should have run
off with the match in the third
quarter, when it kicked 4.12.
The Blues, however, remain on
top of the table, though now
only on a narrow percentage-
margin from North, which beat
Footscray 13.18-9.14. Mel-
bourne stays in third possie,
one win behind the leaders, by
comfortably accounting for
spasmodic Hawthorn 11.11-
6.16. St. Kilda, one win behind
Melbourne, beat inaccurate
Geelong 14.11-6.22, and keeps
in “the four.” Full-forward
Young kicked six goals for St.
Kilda. South is now in fifth
place, one game behind the
Saints and one in front of
Hawthorn and Essendon,
which on its own Windy Hill
was drubbed by revitalised
Collingwood 14.12-8.11. ’Wood
centre - half - forward Weide-
man, back after a suspension,
kicked six goals. In the other
game Richmond came from
behind in the last quarter to
beat off-target Fitzroy 13.8-
10.21. (In Adelaide S.A. beat
W.A. by two points, 13.13-
12.17.)
* * *
In Brisbane Australia
thrashed N.Z. 38-10 in the
second Rugby League Test, to
retain the “Ashes.” (Australia
won the last series 3-0, in 1956.)
The winners shot away to a
5-0 lead after 2min., and led
15-7 at half-time; they were
the better team all through.
Australian stars were the two
centres, Wells and Gasnier
(who scored three tries), winger
Moir (three tries), fullback-
skipper Barnes (seven goals)
and, in the forwards, Provan
and Wilson. Australia’s coach,
Clive Churchill, must also be
given a share of the credit for
the win.
In Sydney’s Rugby League,
West (still star-studded even
without Wells and Moir) beat
Balmain, which badly missed
Barnes’s kicking, 21-12; ’Main
scored four tries against five,
and matched West in general
play. South, still with a bare
chance of* making the semis,
beat Newtown 27-15, helped
by Purcell’s nine goals, North
conquered Canterbury 32-10,
Manly, with promoted winger
Wadling getting three tries,
smashed Parramatta 24-3, and,
on Sunday, St. George beat
East 18-2.
* * *
In Sydney Rugby Union’s
match of the day Manly beat
St. George 11-8 in a game in
which a draw would have
been a more fitting result; it
was 8-all at half-time, and still
that up to 3min. before full-
time, when winger Roberts
landed a fine penalty-goal.
Randwick, joint leader with
Manly, beat East 12-6, Uni-
versity overpowered Eastwood
23-3, Gordon, all its points
coming from penalty-goals by
Graham, was extended by
wooden-spooner Drummoyne
9-0, and North ran away from
Parramatta 29-13. In Auckland,
the British Lions met tough
opposition from Auckland,
15-10.
* * *
In Sydney’s Soccer Federa-
tion games on Saturday, lowly
North Side held Gladesville to
a 1-all draw, Granville and
Sydney Austral drew 2-all,
Bankstown beat Balgownie 2-1
and Hakoah outplayed Con-
cord 4-2. On Sunday unbeaten
Prague overwhelmed Buda-
pest- 6-3.
* * *
Some recent big golf over-
seas : The U.S. Open, the
richest one ever staged ($12,000
first prize), was won by Billy
Casper with a 72-hole aggre-
gate of 282. The Canadian
Open was won by Doug Ford,
also of U.S., with a 72-hole
total of 276 ; Australian Bruce
Crampton, who led after the
second round and was co-
leader at the end of the third,
tied for sixth with two others
on 280. In England the 72-
hole “Yorkshire News” tour-
ney was won by former Irish
amateur Norman Drew, with
281 ; Peter Thomson tied with
two others for second place
with 284 (Thomson’s rounds,
77, 69, 69, 69).
* * *
“Regel”: The late Reg Ellis
(B. 10/6/’59) was easily identi-
fied on the football-fields of
Melbourne: he was the only
player I have ever seen who
wore tan boots.
* * *
“Cunedda”: A cricket
record that had stood for a
century has been equalled in
England. In taking six wickets
with successive balls 18-year-
old fast-bowler Roy Bond, of
Marylebone Grammar School
Old Boys, emulated the feat
achieved by John Wisden, the
man who began the “Cricketer’s
Almanack” now bearing his
name.
* * *
At the Yankee Stadium, New
York, the Swede Ingemar
Johansson surprised by win-
ning the world heavyweight
crown, not only beating Patter-
son but beating him remark-
ably easily. In a sensational
third round he gave the title-
holder a battering, putting him
seven times on the canvas ;
then the ref. stepped in. Johans-
son is the first Swede ever to
win a world crown in any
division, and the first Euro-
pean to hold the heavyweight
title since the Italian Primo
Camera held it in 1933-34.
Last week’s Australian
stoush: In Sydney Jewish
lightweight David Oved
stopped Russell Sands in the
11th round; in Melbourne last
December Oved had stopped
Sands in the eighth. In this
Sydney fight Sands would have
lasted the distance, but he was
taking a lot of punishment and
couldn’t have won. In Bris-
bane, in an upset, Dick White
clearly outpointed Australian
bantam champion Johnny
Jarrett. Jarrett had taken the
title off White in Sydney last
December (by a lOth-round
k. 0.), but White had earlier
stopped Jarrett (in the 12th
round), in December, 1957. In
Melbourne Victorian light-
weight Alf O’Sullivan staged a
fighting finish to draw with
Trinidad boxer Ronnie Rush.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITISH TRADE UNIONS
Tl eviewing a book called
Trade Unions in a Free
Society, by B. C. Roberts
(Reader in Industrial Relations
at London University), London
“Spectator” comments on the
state of the trade - unions in
Britain today:
“The problem, which has
become increasingly embarrass-
ing over the past 10 years, is
how to adapt to life in the
type of society that their
members at one time hoped to
destroy—for in so far as the
trade-union movement was
Socialist it was working for
the destruction of the free
economy which the unions now
have to accept.
“In theory, acceptance should
not be difficult, because the
fate of the trade-unions in
Russia has shown that
Socialism is much more
destructive of their power than
capitalism in a democracy is
ever likely to be. But habit
dies hard ; there is still a
tendency in the unions to
regard themselves as the
hereditary enemies of the
country’s economy.
“The unions’ defects, which
are discussed sympathetically
by Mr. Roberts, stem in part
from the failure of some em-
ployers to grasp the importance
of trade-unions. It is still
possible for an employer (as
a recent case has shown) to
refuse to meet a union officer,
and to say that any future
correspondence on ‘recogni-
tion’ should be addressed to
the firm’s solicitors. Far too
often decisions of importance
to workers are taken without
consultation with their union
representatives; or are con-
veyed so that they cause un-
necessary worry or irritation.
The problems of labor cannot
be settled by the unions alone.
“But many things the unions
could do ; and it is gratifying
to see that one of Mr. Roberts’s
ideas —for a system of work-
shop arbitration —is already
being endorsed by the ship-
wrights. They suggest that
Where shop-stewards and local
union delegates who are on
the spot disagree in any dispute
Lbe conciliation department of
the Ministry of Labor should
be asked to provide an arbiter,
whose decision would be bind-
ing.
“If the unions concerned
could be persuaded to agree
to this proposal, it would mark
a decisive step towards better
and quicker settlements of the
kind of idiotic disputes by
which the shipyards in
particular have been plagued
for so long.”
The “Manchester Guardian”
describes the same book as “a
timely reassessment of the
place and purpose of trade-
unions in modern British
industry” and claims that it
“makes a compelling case for
reform”:
“[Roberts’s] starting-point is
that trade-unions are ‘vitally
important’ institutions in a free
society, and that their right to
protect and promote their
members’ interests ‘should
never be superseded by the
State.’ But he sees a ‘funda-
mental ambiguity’ between
adherence to the ideas on State
Socialism held (perhaps one
should say formally held) by
the Labor party, and the
unions’ insistence on free
bargaining. He puts the posi-
tion clearly:
The choice ... is either to
accept the existence of private
enterprise and a market economy
as a desirable system, since it is
only under these conditions that
free trade-unionism can flourish,
or to accept the implications of
the ideology of Socialism, which
would involve the abandonment of
free bargaining, the right to strike
and the exercise of political
pressure—in short, to become an
agency of the State.
Faced plainly with such a
choice, there is no doubt but
that a huge majority of British
trade-unionists would come
down firmly on the side of free
bargaining. It would be an
important step towards reform,
both of trade-unions and of the
Labor party, if this choice were
faced honestly.
“Honesty is equally required
in dealing with Communists.
Hatred of persecution is a
noble strand in trade-union
history, but it is time for ‘well-
meaning people to accept the
plain fact that the Communist
party is a conspiracy designed
to destroy democracy for ever.’
“The myth that there are no
politics in trade-union elections
—is of immense value to the
Communists. Mr. Roberts
suggests sensibly that candi-
dates for trade-union office
should be asked to declare their
politics before election, so
lhat members would at least
know what they were voting
for.
“Short of some upheaval
which would radically alter the
whole British way of life,” the
same paper continues, “Mr.
Roberts sees no hope of con-
trolling wage movements by
any kind of ‘national* wages
policy.’ He is undoubtedly
right, and he pours a bucket
of honest cold water on the
idea that a Labor Government
would have trade-union
support in any scheme for the
national planning of wages.
“He sees the most practical
hope of keeping wage-move-
ments roughly in line with
national economic interests in
more and better education for
trade-unionists, and particu-
larly for branch officials. Even
with ‘full employment' in a
diverse economy, there must
always be some proportion of
people who are out of work or
moving from job to job, and
Mr. Roberts argues that there
is no need to be afraid of un-
employment up to 24 per cent,
of the working population.
“To remove this fear, how-
ever, the Government must
devise unemployment policies
in which the unions have more
confidence, and the unions
must help themselves by nego-
tiating realistic agreements on
redundancy and severance-pay.
Given an end to dreary debates
on nationalisation, and a
determination not to tolerate
absurd and frivolous strikes,
British trade-unionism could
reinvigorate itself.”
WELL, IT ALL DEPENDS WHAT YOU MEAN BY COMEDY.
(Cartoonist Vicky’s comment, in London “Evening Standard,” on the news that a Greek comedy
written in 317 b.c. was given its first performance for 1500 years in Geneva.)


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. DUESBURY, Deputy
Chairman ; ALFRED S. WHITE, A. G. PARKER.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
Adenauer
Some press comment on Dr.
Adenauer’s withdrawal of
his candidature for the Presi-
dency of the German Federal
Republic and his decision to
remain as Chancellor:
London “Daily Telegraph ” :
“Dr. Adenauer has not
changed his mind. He has
merely changed his tactics. He
has never made any attempt
to disguise his intention of
going on ruling Western
Germany whatever his title
might be.
“When a few weeks ago his
party tricked him into agreeing
to stand for the Presidency and
renounce the Chancellorship
he consoled himself by planning
to expand the function of the
President. • In particular, he
set about assuring that his
successor as Chancellor should
be Herr Etzel, the present
Finance Minister, who could
be trusted to follow loyally in
the Great Man’s footsteps.
“For a time all seemed to be
going according to plan.
Recently, however, it has be-
come increasingly clear that the
Christian Democrats did not
intend to accept this plan.
They have shown every sign of
choosing the next Chancellor
themselves, rather than
having him nominated by Dr.
Adenauer. What is more, the
man they had in mind, Pro-
fessor Erhard, would have
been too strong a character to
accept indirect dictation from
his predecessor. In other
words, it must have become
plain to Dr. Adenauer that the
only way for him to retain
power is to remain Chancellor.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”:
“For this victory (if that is
—London “Daily Express.”
“CAREFUL, HERR CHANCELLOR! SOMEONE ELSE
THOUGHT THAT ONLY HE KNEW WHAT WAS
BEST FOR GERMANY.”
what it is) Dr. Adenauer and
others with him will have to
pay a price. He has made it
clear that what he must have
is power; he will not be
content with retirement into
the position of ‘Father of his
Country’—an honored Head
of State whose counsel is
heeded on great issues but who
does not control everyday
affairs.
“In any case, he will not be
able to become President be-
cause there will already be a
newly elected President. So
when the younger generation
comes, knocking again (as is
humanly to be expected) Dr.
Adenauer’s dilemma is likely
to be more grievous. The issue
will be all or nothing: the
contest may be unedifying.
“But Dr. Adenauer, whose
place in history is already
secure, can perhaps pay the
price of a stormy sunset in ex-
change for what he deems to
be the essential boon of ‘con-
tinuity’ for a few more years.
The question is whether Ger-
many can afford it.”
The same: “Part of Dr.
Adenauer’s trouble is that he
has not trained a successor.
His failure to do so is of a
piece with the more impressive
aspects of his character. Now
he must believe that he is doing
the best thing for Germany as
a Power. He would have done
better for Germany’s internal
welfare if he had let his
countrymen see that they could
do without even him.”
* * *
C. L. Sulzberger, in the “New
York Times”: “Whether
Adenauer will succeed again in
imposing his policies for long
is something we do not yet
know. But the excuse given by
the venerable Chancellor —that
he wants to keep the helm be-
cause of Soviet obduracy at
Geneva is not wholly
accurate. The reason lies in
Paris, not in Moscow.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post ” ; “Demo-
cracy, in the sense in which
other Western countries know
it and take it for granted, is
still a tender and delicate plant
in the Federal Republic. To
monkey about with and exploit,
doubtless for sheerly patriotic
purposes, the highest offices of
the State, as Dr. Adenauer
appears to desire to do, is to
bring them into disrepute, and
with them the democratic
system of which they are part.
It was the Nazis’ sinister per-
version of the outward forms
of the Weimar Republic which
a generation ago brought
Germany to infamy and ruin.
The world is well assured that
Dr. Adenauer is no Nazi. But
he is in some danger of con-
fusing himself and his leader-
ship with the freedom—indeed,
the continued existence of
his country.”
* * *
Edinb u r g h “Scotsman":
“There is, of course, the view
that party unity must be main-
tained if the party is to be
really effective, but it is easy
to see that Dr. Adenauer has
given the Social Democrats a
good target for criticism. It
hardly seems likely that the
Christian Democrats will in
fact split, but the unfavorable
reaction to Dr. Adenauer’s
decision may pave the way for
his eventual retirement.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“The underlying reason for Dr.
Adenauer’s determination to
hang on to office is that he
wants to oppose Britain’s
policy to Russia. Britain is
willing to make a compromise
with Moscow, Adenauer wants
to be tough. And why does
Britain have to worry about
this clash of views? For a very
good reason. Britain has a
powerful Army on German
soil. Adenauer wants that
Army to sustain his policy and
not Britain's.”
All About Your
Throat
Gargle? Spray? Rub on oint-
ment? What do you do for a
sore throat? This article in
July Reader’s Digest describes
the vital passage through
which we breathe, eat, drink
and talk . . . says soreness is
“an important alarm signal”
. . . tells what throat special-
ists advise doing and wearing,
too!
This is just one of the many
provocative articles—including,
Sir Winstons Great Lady, A One-
man Turning Point in History,
Riddle of the Abominable Snow-
man, Fingertip Farming Comes of
Age, The Voyage of the Innocent
Pirates in July Reader’s
Digest.
On sale NOW at all news-
agents and bookstalls. Get
your copy today. Only 2/-.
Brandt Speaks
Interviewed for London
“Time and Tide” by
Indian journalist Rex Malik
during the Geneva conference
of Foreign Ministers, Willy
Brandt, Mayor of West Berlin,
said :
“As far as Berlin is con-
cerned, I think the crisis we


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,'
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; £ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to. country cheques ,
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
have to face now is not a result
of the existence of the city
as such, or of the attitude taken
by the people in it, as an
artificial result of Soviet
Russian policy. It was pro-
voked in November last year
in order to reach a unilateral
change in conditions, or per-
haps act as a lever to some-
thing else.
“It may be true to say that
as far as the German problem
as a whole is concerned with
the interdependent problems of
European security, the West
may have to reconsider the
stand it has taken in the last
five or ten years without
giving-up principles of free-
dom: to combine firmness as
far as principles are concerned,
with a certain amount of
flexibility as far as reaching
practical agreement.
“I was talking about the
Berlin crisis being a lever to
reach something else —I think
that they know by now that
they can’t get a Western signa-
ture in the Berlin case, a
signature which could be
regarded as, and exploited as,
a Western acceptance of the
River Elbe being the western
borderline of the Soviet Union.
“I think this was the idea,
thus making it possible to tell
not only the Eastern Germans,
but also the Poles, the Czechs
and others that they had better
accept the fact that this whole
area, from the River Elbe east-
wards, belongs to the Russian
empire.
“I think the Russians have
put forward certain proposals
because they know the West
wouldn’t accept them. The
Western Powers could very well
take up the proposal of
removing foreign troops.
“The removal of foreign
troops from Germany and
various other countries has
been called ‘disengagement’
(which is a rather vague thing).
If someone talks about dis-
engagement, ask him what do
you really mean by it? Be-
cause different ways of think-
ing are put into that word.
“If changes are to take
place, they must be equal
changes on both sides. For
the foreseeable future, we
cannot, from a German and
West European point of view,
be interested in asking the
Americans to go back to the
other side of the ocean, be-
cause that would give the
Russians a dominant position
in this part of the world.
“These few remarks denote
the possibility of certain
changes. For example, as a
first step the possibility of a
zone of inspection. I wouldn’t
go so far as to say that even
a very limited zone of inspec-
tion on the European con-
tinent would have any great
value for one side or the other,
but I think it would be of the
greatest importance, even in a
very limited area, to work with
the complicated problems of
inspection— to work with this
problem over a piece of land,
and not by talking over con-
ference-tables.
“If practical experience
could be gained, it would be
of relevance to larger areas.
Some of us are sceptical, and
as a result very reluctant, be-
cause we think the Russians
perhaps would not live-up to
their obligations. What would
be better than to get a chance
to work it out? They may
have their suspicions that the
West will not live-up to their
responsibilities and obligations.
“My future? For any fore-
seeable time my place will be
in this. city. I have no time
to think about other possi-
bilities.”
Ulbricht
Tn an article in the British
monthly “The Contempor-
ary Review,” K. F. Feldman
writes that since the West may
soon have to deal with East
German President Walter
Ulbricht “it is as well to
examine this 66-year-old
goatee-bearded materialist”:
“It would be foolish to
ignore Ulbricht as a puppet.
He is that, but his fate is
inalienably wedded to a con-
tinuous tension between the
two blocs. There was a time
around 1955 when the Krem-
lin seriously considered
neutralising all Germany,
which would have spelled
Ulbricht’s oblivion. As
Khrushchev’s foreign policy
hardened, so rose Ulbricht’s
influence. His position was
very weak up to 1956, and in
a book, Political Economy,
published in Moscow five
years ago, the Russian zone of
Germany was not even men-
tioned. A year later, at the
inauguration of the Warsaw
Pact, Russia could still afford
to dispense with East Ger-
many’s membership.
“In dealing with Ulbricht it
is as well to realise that the
ex-woodworker and present
master of the zone is incurably
convinced of the righteousness
of his cause. I was speaking
to Wilhelm Bachem, a former
Minister of Transport in his
Government a few weeks ago,
who said: ‘You people don’t
understand this man. You
can show him that he’s wrong
and he’ll come up with the
same old threadbare argu-
ments. When we told him back
in 1945 that the Communists
would never win an election,
he gave a thin smile of dis-
belief.’
“He is so full of his own
preconceived humbug that
Khrushchev has been loath to
liberalise what, apart from
Albania, is still the most
Stalinist regime in the Soviet
orbit. Russia’s Ambassador in
East Berlin, Pervukhin, has
tried to warn his principals of
the inflated estimates put out
by Ulbricht’s regime, but at
the last Communist-party con-
gress Pervukhin had to bow
to Baal.
“The delusions under which
Ulbricht and Co. are laboring
reached a new apogee when
they met Pervukhin and his
deputy, Astawin, shortly be-
fore Khrushchev decided to
launch his Berlin offensive. He
argued that definitive action by
the Soviets would help to excite
sympathy for the Communist
cause, and that Communist
candidates in some of Berlin’s
borough councils would get in
at the next elections. Pervuk-
hin laughed, but Ulbricht never
saw the point of the joke, nor
did Matern, Neumann and all
the others who were with him.
“They are in the grip of a
fever which prompted Speaker
Dieckmann, of the Volks-
kammer, their rubber-stamp
Parliament, to exclaim: The
miracle of our Chamber is
that we have no enemies in it
or in the Government.’ Dieck-
mann ignored the fact that in
that legislative period 45
deputies had fled to the West
and nine had been arrested by
the State security-police.”
France and Nato
’“Three editorial comments on
France’s refusal to allow
Nato to stockpile U.S. atomic
weapons in France unless
France shares control of the
weapons:
“New York Times”: “The
plan advanced by President de
Gaulle is part of his campaign
to restore to France a mystique
of grandeur in order to make
her healthy and strong and
enable her to play a new role
of leadership resting on the
North Atlantic alliance as one
pillar and the European Eco-
nomic Community, based on
French-German collaboration,
as the other.
“To that end he is cultivat-
ing a new French nationalism
which may well be the neces-
sary psychological crutch of a
nation just recuperating from
long illness. It is certainly one
factor behind the ‘French
miracle’ of economic recovery
and, however inconvenient it
may be, we can still accept the
axiom that it is far, far better
for the West to have a strong
and stable France than a weak
one.
“But, granting all that, one
must still question the wisdom
of President de Gaulle’s latest


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
moves, which find a counter-
part in France’s rigid opposi-
tion to the British plan of a
free-trade zone that contributes
to the Adenauer-Erhard feud
in Germany. Certainly the
timing of these moves is most
unfortunate and can only
cheer the Soviets.
“What is more, an excessive
nationalism which impairs
Western defences and hampers
Europe’s unification must in
the long-run prove self-defeat-
ing. For Europe will be unified,
and the only question facing it
—London “News Chronicle."
“COME RIGHT IN, PARTNERS, BUT LEAVE YOUR
WEAPONS OUTSIDE."
is whether it will unify itself
in freedom or whether it will
wait to be unified by the Soviet
knout.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“The old troubles over missile-
bases in France, land-
commands for French generals,
command of the French Medi-
terranean Fleet in time of war,
like the latest difficulties over
stockpiling nuclear warheads
for American use, are
symptoms rather than causes
of the real difficulty.
“This is that Gaullist philo-
sophy refuses to see France
confined to a European
mission; it does not discard
the Schuman and Monet
philosophy of united Europe,
but wants to soar above it. Its
ceiling is parity with the United
States and Britain in a world
strategy, the creation of some
body or regular meeting as
French generals have been
explaining to the Atlantic Con-
gress. It is difficult to see why
some way should not be found
of satisfying this aspiration.
The peculiar intimacy of Anglo-
American relations, based as
it is on a thousand personal
links, would not suffer from
such a concession.”
* * #
“Manchester Guardian”:
“The various French claims,
for all the confusion of thought
that surrounds them, spring
from a real and thorny diffi-
culty within the alliance. But
if everyone is not careful,
matters of prestige and pique
may obscure the real problem.
“This is the political control
over the use of nuclear
weapons in Nato hands, in
particular the so-called tactical
(but in effect devastating)
weapons. So far this political
control scarcely exists. The
weapons are there, and it
appears that in an emergency
the Nato command might use
them without referring to any-
body except the President of
the United States.
“This is disturbing, but a lot
of work will have to go into
finding an alternative. The
notion that France (and in-
evitably other countries) should
each dispose freely of its own
share of weapons would go far
to break-down the alliance.
Yet giving political control to
the whole North Atlantic
Council of 15 nations would be
impossibly cumbersome and
uncertain: the council works
well in other matters, and
might well be asked to lay
down in advance conditions in
which tactical weapons could
be used, but it is not the body
to give an instant decision.
“The best hope seems to lie
in a delegated body of several
member-nations, small enough
and authoritative enough to
exercise this instant political
control. But it would have to
be made quite clear that this
was not designed to give
particular members (other than
the United States) a dominant
voice. France’s national claims
may serve a purpose if they
lead the alliance into closer
co-operation rather than away
from it.”
Monkeys Into Space
T ondon “Observer” reflects
on Able and Baker’s suc-
cessful return-journey into
space:
“It is well, perhaps, that the
first living creatures to be
launched into space and return
to • hold a press-conference
should be a couple of monkeys.
They are symbols of man’s
animal self. They are savages,
but simple savages by com-
parison with men. Illiterate,
they make no bellicose propa-
ganda. Untutored, they devise
no weapons of war or mass
destruction. Nature whom
man has tamed may be their
giant enemy, but they fear no
national enslavement and nurse
no dreams of conquering the
world. The button-bright eyes
of Able and Baker speak for
man’s primal innocence.
“And so they are good
emblems of what we ordinary
people hope from the explora-
tion of space which their
journey has advanced: that
mankind will not take his
quarrels and his weapons with
him into a universe that dwarfs
the greatest Power on earth to
a mote, but leave them mould-
ering behind.”
China's Strength
Asked by “U.S. News and
World Report” what he
thought of China’s military
strength, a U.S. reporter lately
returned from China replied:
“You see soldiers every-
where —millions of them —but
not with weapons. They work
in the country or in factories
—they work like everyone else
in the street. They are workers,
only they have military uni-
forms. But there is no evidence
of military strength. I never
saw trains with equipment or
tanks or cannon, and I really
travelled very much and very
far out. Of course, it’s hard to
guess the - strategic and the
military secrets, but you don’t
get the impression of a strong
military establishment at all.
You get the impression of a
vast country that has no
industry, no transportation—
a country that is just begin-
ning to crawl. But it’s pouring
out so much propaganda—we
are discounting it 50 per cent,
and we still credit them with
much more than they have.”
Various Voices
Britain's Chancellor of the
Exchequer, D. Heathcoat
Amory: “You probably know
what you do if a baby has
inflation: I understand that
you sit it on your shoulder, you
pat it on the back, you get a
rude noise, and everyone feels
much better! That is what we
[Britain’s Conservative Govern-
ment] did by the credit-squeeze,
higher interest-rates and so on.
Of course, at the time we got
plenty of rude noises, but now
it is recognised that as a result
of our measures the country is
in a much happier and healthier
state.”
Britain’s Home Secretary,
R. A. Butler: “The East-West
struggle is as much a matter
of political and economic
strength as of armaments: we
cannot ‘disengage’ from our
commitments to co-operate in
defence of freedom. Our policy
therefore demands real dis-
armament as the key to real
security.”


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Offiee: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS , General Manager.
By an ironic twist of fate,
when Dundoo was sold, the
drought broke. Rain bucketed
down on Mary and her helpers
as they were packing to leave,
and as the oxen started on
their long trek to Brisbane,
the wagons they pulled were
bogged, hauled out of the
mud, and bogged again. When
the rain stopped, the barren
land was transformed, and at
every waterhole they found
grass knee-high, sprouting
through the skulls and bones
of animals that had gathered
there to die a wasting death
from thirst.
It must have been a frightful
journey. Learning of it,
recently, made me ashamed to
remember the times we’d
laughed at my father-in-law’s
lighthearted stories of that epic
journey. But he never saw the
scrapbook Mary’s parents kept,
and it is a tribute to her
courage that she left him with
a memory where laughter so
successfully veiled the truth.
Most women would have
been crushed by such a rever-
sal in their way of life, but
my husband’s grandmother
must have been a person of
tremendous strength and deter-
mination. And during the long
days of their journey she must
have planned a way of life
which would enable her to
keep herself and her two little
boys.
As soon as they arrived in
Brisbane she bought a
tiny brown-painted cottage,
low-lying, beside a creek
choked with blue waterlilies,
spanned by. a rustic bridge.
Then she put an advertisement
in the “Queenslander”:
Mrs. Foott, The Hermitage, RocU-
lea, wishes to receive boys tinder
13 as pupils. Studies and terms
same as in Govt. Schools.
Every moment that could be
spared from her school found
her busy writing poems and
articles for the “Queenslander”
and other papers. But how-
ever hard she worked she still
found it impossible to make
ends meet. She must there-
fore have been greatly relieved
when, two years later, she
received a letter from Mr.
Butterfield, of the “Queens-
lander”: —
Dear Madam.
I enclose to you a memo. Mr.
Buzacott has sent me this morn-
ing. I think it better to do so
than “boil it down” myself. I think
you really like newspaper work,
and I know how competent you
are to undertake it. Therefore I
hope some arrangement as Mr.
Buzacott suggests will be agreeable
to you, and may be brought about.
I don’t know when your Christmas
outing commences, so cannot be
sure you will receive this at once.
Let me cordially wish you and your
young people a Happy Xmas, “and
many of them,” as the common
most ungrammatical expression
puts it.
Yours faithfully,
W. Butterfield.
The “enclosure” read:
Our present arrangement with
Mrs. Foott does not work quite
satisfactorily. She does not get her
letters promptly enough, and is not
sufficiently “in touch” with the
office. She has a few scholars, but
1 think it might be well to ascertain
whether she would be willing to
give them up in order to our get-
ting more of her services. My idea
is that we want a lady to represent
us at lady-meetings. In April I
hope to have a lady’s room ready
in our new offices, and where Mrs.
Foott, if so disposed, could look
through letters, and papers, etc.,
whenever she was able to come to
Town, and where she could receive
lady visitors.
This was the Christmas of
1886, the year her poem
“Morna Lee” appeared in the
supplement of the “Queens-
lander.” Mr. Buzacott wrote: —
Dear Madam.
I am charmed with “Morna
Lee,’ which I feel sure will b'e appre-
ciated, especially by our many bush
readers. There is a word omitted,
as you will see, in the second line
of the sheet: “On the that
pressed, etc.” “Hand,” I suppose
it is. [lt wasn’t. It was “head.”]
The Christmas Supplement question
will be taken up b’y the compositors
towards the end of the month,
when I will send you a proof.
Few people read that poem
now, yet parts of it bring a
very clear picture to the mind’s
eye. When the hero, John
Warriston, “rode through the
mulga scrub, and the gravel
shone black and bare,” Mary
was describing a country she
knew. Her writing is dated,
yet it has a value, for her
words are chosen with experi-
ence. In this ballad she tells
the story of John Warriston,
jilted by Morna Lee, and now
married to Another. While out
riding in the drought-stricken
country, he finds a “wild mare
left by her troop to die.” He
dismounts from Emperor, his
horse, and unbuckles the
waterbag from his saddle. As
he gives the dying mare a
drink, she rolls her eyes up
at him:
And her look in his face as he left
her side was the look of Morna
Lee.
No young woman today
would say thank-you for
being told she had a face like
a horse. Yet, in spite of this
absurdity, the descriptions of
the country are touched with
all the sadness of an exile
remembering a much-loved
home, as is shown in this verse,
when John Warriston “was
dying, and could not die,” and
heard the men bringing in the
cattle:
Over the ranges they brought them
back, and out from the
brigalow,
And from under the giant gums
that mark where the frequent
waters flow,
They quitted their fires ere the
stars were quenched —they
camped on the creek at noon.
And the station rails, like silver,
shone at the rising of the moon.
TlTer permanent work on the
staff of the “Queens-
lander” made things a little
easier for Mary.
As the children grew to Jse
men, Arthur became his
mot h e r’s favorite. Cecil
grumbled that she and Arthur
were exactly alike. They
would come home from work
by the last train at 11 or 12
at night, sit down for an hour’s
yarn, decide to have dinner,
talk among the dishes for
another hour or so, and finally
say good-night at four in the
morning. They liked scratch
meals (which my father-in-law
detested) —a sandwich and a
cup of strong coffee, or a bottle
of beer and a few curried-
prawns. Nothing solid. But
I have sometimes wondered
whether they could not afford
to have much solid food in the
house.
When Cecil married, and
gave her three grandchildren,
she sometimes sat them on the
rustic bridge, their bare legs
dangling over the waterlilies
in the creek, and told them
stories of ancient Ireland—of
Deidre of the Sorrows, of
Tristram and Iseult; and
stories of life in the bush, of
politicians, of people she had
met. She was interested in any
subject that came along, and
ready to absorb any story that
came her way.
My sister-in-law has written
to me of the day Mary was
taking her along Edward Street
to have tea, “when she sud-
denly saw a man with a gold
skull on his watchchain”:
She had to interview him later
by appointment, but grabbed her
opportunity straight away. He was
the captain of a diving-outfit, and
owner of a group of luggers. She
held my hand in a warning grip,
and I had sense enough to keep
quiet while she gradually got him
talking. In that day most women
had a rather coy, fluttering way of
talking to- strangers, but Granny
spoke in the same dry rather
brusque tone that she used to me
and Allan. At first the man
answered the questions briefly, then
suddenly he was talking at top
speed—pouring out tales about
Phillipino boys being taken by
sharks, giant clams, pieces-of-eight
found sticking in .coral-reefs, the
wreck of the Quetta. My grand-
mother just listened without
attempting to take notes or dis-
turb the flow of information. After-
wards she pulled me up to her
office in a great hurry, and told
me to keep quiet, “if possible,”
while she wrote her article. Then
finally we went out into the street
which seemed to have got rather
dark,, and she said: “I think we
deserve a cream cake at Rowe’s
after all that.”
Mary Hannay Foott recog-
nised her obligations towards
her children, and worked to
the limit of her capacity. But
in her heart of hearts she never
forgot the husband of her
youth.
A. G. Stephens wrote of her:
“She was often poetically
inspired, seizing a momentary
emotion or idea or picture,
and stating it lyrically and
directly.” I think this is true,
and her words do have the
power of bringing a sudden,
sharp, clear picture to the
mind, as, for instance, when
she wrote of a Melbourne
long ago:
Midnight at last brings quiet,
Scarcely is heard a sound
Save sand blown by the north wind,
Hissing along the ground.
Her poems for children are
charming, and I remember
Allan telling me she used to
write them each one for their
birthdays—but as he was only
five when she died he couldn’t
have had very many! But
usually her work had a strain
of sadness in it, particularly in
these last verses:
My heart is tired of beating.
My eyes are tired of tears.
My feet are weary treading
The path of seventy years.
The swallows with the summer
To other lands may flee.
So from life’s frozen winter
Fain would my soul be free.
I mind my budding springtime.
When new-felt life seemed all.
But a sere leaf of autumn —
What should it do but fall ?


WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM °> ARTHRITIS
Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
7 HOWARD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
anybody fond of pooches
should not like the thought
of one of them living in an
upstairs flat —that Mr. Mort-
ensen, our good landlord
there, occupying the other,
downstairs, flat, said more than
once of the O’Grady: “If ever
I come back to this earth, I
want to come back as Manns’
bulldog.” Testimony cannot
go higher than that.
Indeed, the O’Grady greatly
enjoyed the flat-life, and for
one good reason in particular*
apart from the early-morning
sunshine pouring in on to the
balcony from his Highness the
Sun’s rising-place over beyond
South Head. The flat-life
meant that twice a day, early
morning and late afternoon,
and at other times, the
O’Grady (suitably rugged on
the wet days) had to go for
her outings. She would come
laugh-barking with delight at
the word “Walk?” and pull
with the strength of a growing
lion up the hill to the wide
freedom of St. Leonards Park.
Pretty well every day, too,
there were to be found, in that
high park, things of one sort
and another of common
interest to both of us. There
were many finds of tennis-balls
in the grass ; there were finds,
also—an astonishing number
over the years —of small
money that could be trans-
lated into joy for the O’Grady.
There was, further, the day
we came upon, up there on
that leafy plateau, no fewer
than a counted 11 blue cranes,
alertly picking their stately
way through the grass, but
taking little notice of either of
us, and reminding of friend
Alec Chisholm’s grand book
about Sydney’s amazingly
numerous and varied bird-life,
for which book (subsequently
published by Dent in London)
Chis. had asked me to think
of a name, but finally thought
of a better one himself, Bird
Fantasy in Australia.
In fact, the bird-life in
general in that park (as almost
everywhere else around
Sydney) was nearly as plentiful
as the leaves on the trees. It
ranged from the high piping
Psalmist of the Dawn on our
very early mornings, right
through all manner of the
native and imported, to the
old (and young) kooka-
burras laughing their sardonic
mystery at the dusk, and even
some half-dozen raven-hued
crows strolling across the then
deserted bowling-greens, look-
ing (like club-members who
had been celebrating, wisely
and well, with Wimble’s ink.
Not that, except on one or
two occasions—such as the
assorted score or more of
sparrows and starlings taking
together a crowded bath in a
grassy hole after rain—the
O’Grady ever bothered her
head much about the bird-life :
she had too much good sense
to go chasing after things that
could take to the wing.
There were also, in those
early mornings and late
afternoons, the leashed train-
ing greyhounds (whose ances-
tors had a place, a very long
way back, in the O'Grady’s
own ancestry, coming down on
a branch line from them
through the Great Dane, the
Mastiff and the Dogue de
Bordeaux); and, again, there
were also the Two Ladies in
Black.
These were two most sweet-
looking dear souls, who —
dressed in unrelieved black
from hats to shoes—came like
twin survivals from another
age through the park, along
the diagonal path from some-
where about Albert Street,
going for early-morning Mass
to the rounded church, like a
fortress of faith, at the corner
of Ridge and Miller Streets.
Always, as soon as we our-
selves got to the park, the
O’Grady would be let loose
for her run ; and one memor-
able morning—she must have
been all out six months old
at the time —she went bound-
ing towards those two timid
sweet beings, who looked as
if they might well have lived
together all their lives in one
of Henry Lawson’s old North
Sydney “mansion-houses back
in a garden,” and who probably-
had never before encountered
anything anywhere so terrify-
ing as a six-months-old bound-
ing girl bulldog (as the chil-
dren classified the O’Grady).
Well, those dear nice souls
ran. They gathered up their
long black skirts and ran for
the slender protection of one
of the lovely ghostly-white
gum-saplings that grow- there ;
and they would surely- have
tried to climb it, too, if I had
not caught up with the playful
O’Pooch and got her under
control.
Not so long since, passing
around St. Leonards Park on
one of the now-vanished trams,
on an early morning, I noticed
one lone tall Lady in Biack
going by herself on that long
and now so lonely walk
through the trees to the church.
And, since then again, I have
regularly gone in early morn-
ings by bus around the same
curve of streets, and now I
see no sweet tall Lady in Black
at all.
Was it an unkind thought
which came to me at the
time of their scare, that such
faithful churchgoing as theirs
should have won for them
some protection of faith
against mortal harm? . . . Ah,
well, they should not be afraid
of the O’Grady now.
Of this fear, too, there was
the rather different aged couple
(a little seedy-looking, these)
who one day ciimbed the out-
side concrete stairs and rang
the bell of the door when the
O'Grady and I happened to be
alone, batching for the day at
191 Walker Street. Through
the glass they were to be seen
standing on the mat, but they
both fell back in fright, right
to the railing, when I opened
the door and the O’Grady
/Wedged an inquisitive, possibly
year-old, bulldog face through
as well.
I said, “Yes?” and the man
of the couple shakingly
reached out and handed me a
leaflet before, they fairly ran
down the stairs and out to
the safety of the street. The
leaflet was a Watchtower tract,
hopefully entitled “How To
Conquer Fear.” (One of the
rising generation collected
some grist for the O’Grady
by passing this on to Syd
Deamer, for his “Granny”
column in the “Herald.”)
Their awful fear that day
(like that of the dear Two
Ladies in Black, which I can
still smile over, in regret) was,
in its way, one of the many
such comments which the same
gentle O’Grady was to provide
over the years in proof of the
power of propaganda.
How that power conditions
the minds of all of us! For
so long now, in this respect,
bulldogs have, as everybody
knows, been rightly upheld as
the true symbols of British
courage. Churchill (Sir
Winston) is himself, and in
himself, an image of the
breed: indeed Norman Lind-
say, in a topical Bulletin
cartoon, once pictured Sir
Winston (Mr., then) as a bull-
dog, with a surround of “off-
spring”—the British—all of
them superbly like the
O’Grady.
The date of that cartoon
was back somewhere about the
time of the stirring days of
the Battle of Britain ; and it
is a natural enough conse-
quence of all such symbolism
that most people, who do not
know them, regard bulldogs
apprehensively, taking the
symbolism not, as it should
be taken, for the quality of
courage, which is the greatness
of the British, but, instead, for
fighting quality, which they
also have abundantly, but which
could not be more wrong than
when associated with bulldogs,
giving them a wholly fictitious
reputation for ferocious pug-
nacity.
In the great majority, they
don’t like fighting at all.
Punch did fight once, under the
strong provocation of a big un-
leashed dog savagely attacking
him when he was on the lead,
and that was a very sad day for
{Continued on page 49)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“We’re allotted people of
about the same earning-
capacity as ourselves to visit,”
he said ; “so we have a pretty
good idea of their income, for
a start. And we go along with
a predetermined figure in our
mind. Of course, we don’t
suggest any particular sum —
but w r e tell them what we earn,
and what we’re giving, and
leave it to them.”
“Supposing they don’t come
up to the mark?” I asked.
“In that case,” my friend
remarked calmly, “we don’t
settle for their original offer.
We stick around and keep talk-
ing. Usually they come good
after a while, if you’re patient
enough to wait.”
There’s not much difference,
it seems to me, between these
tactics and those of the
speciality-salesman who gets his
Careers in Philanthropy
Since the war a new career
has been opened to Australians
—that of professional organiser
of philanthropic appeals.
Abroad, of course, the pro-
fessional fund-raiser is no
novelty. In pre-war years
philanthropy ranked high
among American occupations
—one estimate, I recollect,
placed it among the top 10,
rated on an income basis.
Temporary organisers were
at that time occasionally em-
ployed in Australia for chari-
table appeals and the like, but
it was unusual for anyone to
work as a full-time, permanent
organiser. Then a well-known
American fund-raising institu-
tion set up in business in this
country, and the highly
trained professional organiser
has now become accepted as
almost indispensable for
running philanthropic appeals.
Many of the fine new;
churches throughout Australia
bear witness to the effectiveness
of professional fund-raising;
methods. Small, struggling’
churches which found it an
effort to pay their ministers’
stipends have been able to put
up handsome new buildings,
raise stipends to a reasonable
figure, and increase their
activities and membership ;
and their success has prompted
other institutions to resort to
the professional fund-raiser.
In spite of these achieve-
ments, though, it may well be
asked whether religious and
other bodies are altogether
wise to rely so much upon the
work of outside organisers
whose interest in fund-raising
is bound-up with making a
crust.
It’s one thing to awaken and
stimulate interest in a flagging
cause, but quite another to
cajole people into contribut-
ing more than they can really
afford and bind them, by
written or moral pledges, to
continue contributing
generously for years.
I was interested to learn
from an acquaintance who had
taken part in a campaign
organised by a professional
fund-rasing body of the tactics
he was instructed to employ.
foot in the door, and won’t
leave till he gets his customer
signed-up.
Some trained organisers are
reported to have become so
impressed by the possibilities
of their new career that they
have set-up in business for
themselves. It would be
prudent, I suggest, for any
organisation that is approached
by these careerists to inquire
pretty closely into their cre-
dentials ; the majority, no
doubt, are perfectly reliable,
but there is always room for
the unscrupulous to take a
hand in what seems a highly
remunerative occupation.
It should be remembered,
too, that we’ve been living in
prosperous times. How many
organisations which have
embarked on costly projects
will be able to maintain their
present high income if we hit
a serious trade-recession? It’s
worth thinking over when the
promises and pledges are
reckoned-up. Ardoyne
(Vic.).
Why Homes Come Down
Control of the demolition of
habitable houses to be replaced
by factories, offices or shops
is a policy that needs very
flexible and sympathetic hand-
ling if it is not to be harmful
to business-development or
grossly unjust to property-
owners.
There is a case for regula-
ting the demolition of blocks of
flats or mansions that could
be converted into maisonettes,
but not the demolition of small
cottages in highly-rated areas
zoned for commercial pur-
poses.
Rates on these often amount
to a steep rental-charge, rend-
ering them unattractive to an
owner-occupier, while no
tenant would pay a rent, even
if allowable, that would give
a landlord a reasonable return
on capital. The only worth-
while course is to demolish
such cottages and replace them
with buildings better suited,
economically, to the site.
A cottage near my home
was pulled down and replaced
by a service-station. The sale-
price was reputedly £BOO0 —
at least double its economic
price as a dwelling. The cottage,
a moderate-sized brick building
about 40 years old, stood on
a busy section of a main high-
way on the outskirts of a shop-
ping-centre. The block is
triangular-shaped, and its
frontage is wide. The house
occupied the deep end ; the
other part could not be cut-off
and sold, its depth being too
narrow for building-purposes.
The site, however, was ideal
for a service-station.
To argue that because this
house was in first-class order
its demolition should have
been prohibited is completely
unrealistic. The long frontage
meant heavy rates. These
destroyed its appeal for the
kind of owner-occupier its size
would suit. For the same
reason an investor would not
have been prepared to buy for
letting, except at a bargain
price.— Cunedda (N.S.W.).
Tragi-comics
A recent happening in a
Brisbane high-school indicates,
clearly how young delinquents
get ideas from comic-strips.
A girl showed her teacher
an anonymous letter which she
said she had found in her coat-
pocket. The letter stated that
the writer knew the girl was
pregnant and urged her to
confess this to the school staff.
During the flap which
followed, one more letter
appeared ; and it was eventu-
ally proved that the girl her-
self had written both. She con-
fessed to being unhappy and
unnoticed both at home and
at school, and claimed she had
written the letters to draw
attention to herself.
Currently running in a Bris-
bane newspaper was a serial
in which an insignificant
schoolteacher became head-
line news by refusing to heed
anonymous letters threatening
his life if he did not leave
town. As in the true-life case
the “victim” had written the
letters himself. —A. P. (Q.).
Guinea-pig Pupils
After more than 40 years’
experience as assistant, high-
school headmaster and reliev-
ing inspector, I can find little
to disagree with in
“Ardoyne’s” conclusions on.
guinea-pig pupils (B. 3/6/’s9)*
The selected pupils and their
parents pay the price, and the
teacher (sometimes) earns
kudos and perhaps another
degree or trip to America.
Before deciding to learn
French, or any other language,
by the direct method —i.e.,
without learning grammar and
doing the usual grammatical
exercises—at least two things
should be considered: (a) age
of pupil; ( b ) type of pupil’s
intellectual bent.
It is well known that when
a foreign family (say, New


Missing Friend
WOULD KEVIN MICHAEL REIDY for-
merly of Footscray and Cowes in the
State of Victoria but now of parts un-
known, or any person knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with
JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors, 21J
Nicholson Street, Footscray.
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES \
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—•
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
TIMBER MERCHANTS
SAW MILLERS
Australians from Italy) settle
in some country town, the
children under 12 acquire a fair
knowledge of spoken English
within 6 months and a good
knowledge within 12 months ;
for children 12 to 18 progress
is slower and their acquire-
ments in English would be no
better than fair at the end of
12 months; young men and
women (19-26), if working
with English-speakers and
separated from their own
nationals, make fair progress
in English and take about three
years to be reasonably pro-
ficient in their new language ;
and older people, particularly
married women who do not
take outside jobs, never learn
English.
The reason for all this?
Young children, lacking self-
consciousness, with admirable
abandon imitate all the English
sounds and words they hear,
and before long pronounce
them correctly. Older children
are afraid of being laughed at,
and consequently don’t talk
enough English. Older people,
too lethargic in outlook and
too firmly set in the vocal
habits of their own language,
simply do not try to learn the
new language.
A similar situation exists in
schools. If the child starts
French, say, at the age of 9
or 10, the pronouncing of
French words is an enjoyable
game which won’t suffer from
lack of practice, even outside
school-hours. If older —say,
12 to 15—the virus of self-
consciousness operates and he
(or she) is afraid of being
laughed at hence lack of
practice.
Girls as a rule learn a foreign
language more quickly than
boys because their natural
histrionic talents come to their
aid. For children attending
State high-schools foreign-
language teaching by the direct
method-is very rarely indeed a
success as judged by examina-
tion results because the learners
are 12 years old when they
commence study of the lan-
guage. In a few instances I
have known it succeed with
girls, but never with boys.
For a student with a talent
for mathematics and science
there should be no doubt as
to which method to adopt.
The. old-fashioned method,
with its set rules and sets of
exercises based thereon, correl-
ates very closely with (say)
elementary science and mathe-
matics. Latin rules are simply
the propositions of the langu-
ages, and Latin sentences
based on a new rule are simply
the linguistic riders or deduc-
tions based on the rule. Success
in geometry and Latin prose
go hand-in-hand.
The direct-method enthu-
siast will raise the objection
“Do rules and their applica-
tion in individual sentences
enable pupils to talk the langu-
age correctly?” No, of course
they don’t ; but neither does
the alleged French (or
German) accent of teachers
who have never left the shores
of Australia help pupils much.
Only in a community where
the learner hears French or
German spoken all the time
can these languages be
properly learnt.
Our schools simply can’t
provide such a community. If
pupils in our schools learn
foreign languages by the use of
rules, they benefit at least in
one respect in having practice
in reasoning things out. If
they try to learn languages by
-the direct method, it is possible
that they are only learning
to make queer noises.
Special coaching outside
school-hours, also mentioned
by “Ardoyne,” seems to be
spreading rapidly, particularly
among pupils who attend the
Great Public (or independent)
Schools—perhaps parents of
other children can’t afford it.
In any case it raises a vital
question : Why do people send
* their sons and daughters to the
Public Schools? Is it for the
social contacts created in the
Public Schools or to learn
school subjects, as generally
understood?— Hebridean
(W.A). '
Cracking the Bodgie
I’m not sure which limb of
the tree “Suburbia” (B.
17/6/ ’59) is barking up. At
one stage he appears to be
ridiculing the “theory of


environment,” and towards the
end he appears to maintain that
the environment of the older
suburb is more beneficial than
the newer type—which surely
shows that environment does
matter.
Having been a resident
master in about six different
church-schools, I can assure
“Suburbia” that there are
delinquents and potential
delinquents in those schools,
too. The cause of this delin-
quency does not, however,
vary with either class or eco-
nomic conditions, for it is an
unfailing common pattern for
the human organism to be in
essence the product of its en-
vironment. That is, indeed, one
of the reasons why people are
willing to pay up to £5OO a year
to have their children edu-
cated in such places.
As compared with State
schools, I have no idea as to
the number of delinquents
church-schools may produce.
Statistics aren't easy to get,
because the church-school pro-
duct, when incurably delin-
quent, often satisfies his delin-
quent tendencies in a more
socially acceptable manner
than his State-school counter-
part.
In placing the blame on
State schools 1 did so only
because reference had been
made to a type of delinquency
which would be unusual for
church-school boys.
It is, of course, the early
environment of the child which
matters most, and therefore
children come to boarding-
schools too late for really
deep-seated tendencies to be
appreciably modified. But in
all my experience in schools I
have never known delinquent
boys who were not emotionally
disturbed by the experience of
their earlier years, and that sort
of emotional disturbance is not
cured by a display of force. —
Schoolmaster (Q.).
Third-party Insurance
Instead of increasing the
premiums for compulsory
third-party insurance, steps
might well be taken to ensure
that all insurance-companies
carry a fair share of this un-
profitable business. At present
practically all of it seems to
be carried by the Government
Insurance Office and the
N.R.M.A. This seems most
unfair.
It could be rectified (and
premiums possibly reduced
instead of increased) either by
compelling all insurance-com-
panies handling other motor-
car insurance to handle a
similar amount of compulsory
third-party insurance ; or by
giving the Government Insur-
ance Office and the N.R.M.A.
exclusive rights to all types
of motor-vehicle insurance.
In addition, compulsory
third-party premiums should
be on a sliding-scale, giving the
same no-claim bonuses as for
comprehensive policies; and
the premiums of owners hav-
ing claims should be stiffly
increased. Furthermore, acci-
dents would be greatly reduced
if guilty drivers had to pay
the first £5OO of any claim —
double -for drunken drivers? —
even if they had to pay it in
instalments. There should be
a limit to the amount awarded,
and all such claims should be
heard by a panel of three
judges.— Eureka (N.S.W.).
Footwear Prices
Can't agree with “Raw
Material” (B. 17/6/ ”59) that
we never see better-quality
Australian hides in footwear
made here. Judicious inquiry
confirms that best-quality boots
and shoes in this country are
(and of necessity) made from
better-quality hides. It’s mainly
because of over-export of top-
grade hides that footwear
generally in Australia is extor-
tionately priced. Prices of
poorer-quality footwear (made
from poorer-quality hides)
spiral upwards with the best
for no more equitable reason
than what amounts to sym-
pathetic profiteering, both by
manufacturers and retailers. —
P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 545
Across
I—Wherein Sarah is informed that I am not always the
same with reference to spit. (8)
s—Emphasise5—Emphasise a current currency in U.S. (6)
9—Make designs on glass or metal by eating out of the
lines with acid. (4)
10—Boat fittings squabble on hair. (8)
12— Ann canned a principle of tea. (6)
13— This creature is an apple-isle version of the fellow
who urged apple-eating in Eden. (9, 5)
15 — The poet Gosse has one way of
progressing. (9)
17 —Thanks expressed after current
deeds of the "saints with a cat
running wild. (4)
20— Finish off a game helpmeet. (4)
21- —Bird’s dark vessels. (9)
23—Drabbest ironer is getting the
bird. (5, 9)
26 —An imposing character to
murmur against an insect. (6)
28— One sun and an Edward without
company. (8)
29 Father by the way is tense. (4)
30 — Care to go by steamer and
kiss? (6)
31 — Straggly and sprawly, like some
handwriting making minced
pies dry. (7)
Down
1 — Start games with artful
tactics. (10)
2 Often without anything below
a Suffolk town. (9)
3 Broken girl and boy. (8)
4 Negatived no form for the
antiquated “S.” (3)
5 Bill may become this in Can-
berra and thereabouts. (3)
6 Fretted when fed on tea. (6)
7 Soul-weariness and boredom. (5)
8 — Barrel holding a sort of fish. (4)
11 —What a Malayan might use to
kill and conserve Miss Lavrans-
datter. (7)
14 —Indolence with which a girl and
I approach duet arrangements. (9)
16 — Temple’s parent idol as appear-
ing at the end. (7)
18— One of the people in the play
to produce one of the results of'
burning to act the Queen. (9)
19 — The beginning was in the begin-
ning, though given a bit of a
fright. (8)
22 —Nine up in manuscript imbroglios
sup, for instance. (3-3)
24 Roams with this boy. (5)
25 — Stylish American city has a go
with it. (4)
27 — Georgia’s gossip. (3)
28 — Pronoun. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 544.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
that unprovoked aggressor.
The O’Grady never had a
fight in her life, and both she
and Punch would suffer un-
protesting the yelping impert-
inences of every stray reckless
hound that came at them,
though the O’Grady, getting a
little less patient with age, did
up-hackle and let them have a
growl now and then.
No; it is the power of
propaganda and nothing else
that makes people, the great
majority of them, fear bull-
dogs. Men, especially, and,
rather strangely, small boys.
Women, in the main, are
infinitely better observers, and,
moreover, have enough
courage of their own to look
a bulldog in the face, and of
course they see the gentleness
that is almost always there, if
you look.
Little girls, too, for the same
reasons, and almost without
exception, are actually hard to
keep from getting down and
fondling your bulldog. A
group of them, out in the old
Rushcutter Bay Park, several
times made daisy-chains of
clover-flowers and draped them
around the always very patient
Punch’s neck, and told him
they would marry him.
Another group that I
noticed, when , with the
O’Grady, to be seemingly
without any hint of fear about
bulldogs— not having, perhaps,
been subjected to so much
propaganda about them —were
the New Australians. There
was one who used to come
. across St. Leonards Park at
daylight on Sunday mornings
carrying a rod on his way to
go fishing: he always would
come out of his way to stroke
and pat and have a talk with
the O’Grady, letting her sniff
his no doubt already bait-
scented hands.
Another day there was
another of these New Aus-
tralian men, who, nothing less
than immaculately dressed,
actually knelt down in the dirt
in the middle of the top of
Walker Street, took the O’Grady
in his arms, and (without even
having said a good-day to me,
or, I think, even looked at me,
on the other end of the lead)
told the slightly scared little
boy accompanying him, and
told the whole wide world as
well: “Best dog in d’ world!
Best dog in d’ world!” along
with many other endearments.
As just one other typical
instance of what odd en-
counters there were almost
daily in or near St. Leonards
Park, there was the day the
O’Grady most joyfully dis-
covered the kurrawong (one of
those few occasions of her
interest in bird-life, other than
in the form of “chook”).
The kurrawong had trapped
himself inside a tall wire-
netting tree-guard of a young
flowering tea-tree bush, and
"Turkish bath and massage , sukiyaki and sake, dozo !”
was frantically racing round
and round on the ground in
there, not having the nous to
climb up to freedom. The
North Sydney Council —be-
cause it is one of the best
councils in all Sydney, and
knows how to keep a park in
decent condition for an
O’Grady to take her walks in
—will pardon the damage done
to its property by our tearing
up a big enough space in the
wire-netting to let that very
frightened bird escape and fly
away, calling out loudly—
would it have been in grati-
tude? “Kurrawong, kurra-
wong!” through the dark
avenue of the figtrees. Per-
haps kurrawongs read propa-
ganda, too, but, if so, they
should know better now.
And then, in due course,
when the O’Grady was about
four years old, we all came
to our house here, which has
the postal address of 8 Oaks
Avenue, Cremorne, though
really it’s Cammeray or
Neutral Bay or North Sydney,
whichever you like, it being
close to boundaries of all these
suburbs. And thus, naturally,
8 Oaks Avenue became, in its
turn, also the O’Grady kennel,
with her best room the sunny
sun-room at the back, which
Mr. Pryce himself built, surely
with prescient forethought,
before he sold this cosy little
home and went away to his
present larger one.
And here there was to be
the fairly big, and generally
sunny, back lawn, and quite
near the also usually sunny
Carhmeray golf-links, with
more and more wonderful
.
hnds of tennis-balls and count-
less golf-balls, and, after the
circus had been there last year,
even a little money.
that same excellent
Ashtons Circus was still on,
we had both gone up there
one day, because I wanted to
see how the O Grady, who had
never before set eyes on such
things, would react to the big
elephants. There were four or
five of them, tethered to their
pegs in the oval, keeping their
ponderous swaying time to the
rock-’n’-roll music coming out
from under the big-top.
And the O'Grady’s reaction?
She truly couldn’t have cared
less. She looked at their
monstrous forms with a calm
disdain . . . merely just animals.
And so altogether, here, the
six more years of shared happi-
ness for the O’Grady and for
us. And much more that
might be said . . . But no,
enough.
She is gone. Even Mr. Spira
could not save her. And the
Douggie has wept despair on
my shoulder; and the Joycie
has wept heart-
brokenly out the
back; and the
M ell i e ’s eyes
have filled with
tears. And-. . .
No, no more. She
is gone for ever
. . . the dearest,
noblest of things,
the best of friends.
No —emphatically
No.
Never . . . ever
. . . again.
Postscript. This
morning, nearly
a week later, on
opening the front
door about 6.30
a.m. to get the
paper, there in a
tight-packed row,
just standing thus
close side by side
looking in through
the wide wire gate
at nothing
were neighbor
Holburns’ b i g
black Gundy, across-the-road-
neighbor Allens’ fox-terrier
Buster, and an unknown tan-
and-white Collie . . . the three
staring faces in the grey morn-
ing light a sight all the more
queerly weird in that nothing
at all like it had ever happened
before. Perhaps they, also, can
hear the clear voice of blue
budgie Joe still calling, so
often, “Where’s Ju-ju? Where’s
Ju-ju?”


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE RECESSION AND THE WOOLGROWER
From D. L. S. CAPEL
CUnce Easter the substantial
recovery in wool-prices has
led some people—particularly
those whose main contact with
the woolgrower’s problems is
through the press into
imagining that the recession is
over. The national average
price of greasy during April,
1959, was 56.33 d. a pound,
compared with the average
during April, 1958, of 50.56 d.
In view of the fact that many
woolgrowers, particularly in
the higher-rainfall areas, con-
sider that the cost of produc-
tion of wool is in the vicinity
of 60d. a pound, this can hardly
be described as a minor boom,
as one newspaper recently de-
picted it.
At the present stage of de-
velopment and with existing
costs, prices must increase
further yet before they will
benefit the man who has
acquired commitments since
the boom in 1951 and has been
used to relying on a much
higher income to meet them.
Recent C.5.1.R.0. tests
show that it is danger-
ous to place too much
reliance on last year’s
dosing of cobalt bullets
as a flock protection
against phalaris staggers
this autumn.
Dosing, where con-
sidered necessary, should
therefore be carried out
immediately since most
outbreaks of the disease
occur during May and
June following the emer-
gence of the young
phalaris shoots.
Lamb losses occasioned
by fly strike and similar
diseases can be lessened
considerably with the
use of Eiastrator Rubber
Rings for all castration
and tailing. Eiastrator
provides the safest
method of castration
and tailing, because it
is completely bloodless.
Whatever the causes of the
wool-recession and the pros-
pects for future sales, all the
average woolgrower can do is
to meet the market and pro-
duce as much good wool as
cheaply and efficiently as he
can. Even more important, he
“I STILL say it's the H-bomb !”
must, to the best of his ability,
continue his schemes of
development, because our
greatest hope for the future is
in these.
The reason the ordinary
woolgrower grows wool is that
his country lends itself best to
that particular enterprise—for
instance, he cannot, as a rule,
switch to fat-lambs, because
his country is probably un-
suited to them. It might be
as well, then, to take a look
at the basic requirements and
costs'of running Merino sheep.
Each animal must be ade-
quately fed, preferably right
through the year, and kept
healthy and free from external
parasites and, as far as pos-
sible, from internal parasites,
too. Meantime, correct
breeding-practice must be
maintained, because it costs as
much, if not more, to run a
bad sheep as a good one.
First let’s take the matter
of dealing with external para-
sites. The operation is an
involved one: dipping, jetting
and crutching (preferably twice
a year). (It would be an advan-
tage, too, if the Mules opera-
tion was more widely used;
but the cost of this is not
included in these calculations.)
An estimate —dipping, 3d. a
sheep; jetting, 3d.; crutching
(twice at contract-rates), Is. 9d.
—works-out at 2s. 3d. a sheep
a year.
The incidence of footrot and
of internal parasites, such as
worms and liver-fluke, gener-
ally varies directly with the
rainfall. The higher the
rainfall, the more it costs to
keep sheep healthy. If a sheep
is well-fed, it will have a greater
resistance to worms ; even so,
I find it necessary, here at
Barraba, on the north-west
slopes of N.S.W., with an
average annual rainfall of 26in.,
to dose at least five times a
year, aiming at prevention
rather than cure.
Minimum cost of this drench-
ing is Is. 7d. a sheep —two
doses of phenothiazine (in and
out of winter, to control nodule
and blackscour-worms), Is. 4d.
a sheep ; three doses of cheaper
drenches (through the warmer
months, to control barber’s-
pole, blackscour- and tape-
worms), say, 3d. a sheep.
Drenching during 1956, which
was exceptionally wet and
wormy, cost as much as 4s. a
sheep, but if a very rigorous
programme had not been
adhered to the losses of sheep,
especially weaners, and the
decline in wool-production, due
to worms, could have been
catastrophic.
Add to these figures the cost
of shearing at 4s. a head
(contract-rate), and the total
immediate cost of running a
sheep amounts to 7s. lOd.
Without going into details,
there are still many other costs
of running a property which
must be added —for instance,
labor, rates, fuel, fodder-
conservation, freight, interest-
rates, pest-control, etc. In addi-
tion, if breeding, there are
replacement rams to be con-
sidered ; and, if running
wethers, replacement sheep,
less the sale-value of old sheep
(now way down from what it
used to be), come into these
calculations. So a sheep could
cost 30s. or more to run, all
told—and this is a conservative
estimate. These costs remain
the same whether sheep cut
81b. or 121 b. a head.
Let’s assume that it costs 30s.
a head to run each sheep, and
that the average market-price
for wool is 4s. a pound. If a
sheep cuts 81b., then the gross
return is 325. and the net profit
2s. If it cuts 101 b., the net
profit is 10s., and for 121 b., the
net profit will be 18s. So the
first thing a woolgrower can
do to meet the recession is to
ensure that he is cutting as
much wool from each sheep
as possible.
Eliminate, as far as possible,
all out-and-out culls and “old
crackers.” Then, if breeding,
run sufficient ewes to provide
a surplus from which to cull
at least 20 per cent., and go
mainly for bulk commensurate
with quality. Feed them well,
particularly the wean e r s.
(Incidentally, young culls make
tender eating, if fattened-up.)
If running wethers, go for
good, even lines of heavy-
cutting sheep and try to run
them just on the light side of
the carrying-capacity. This will
save much trouble and expense,
particularly during drought
and worm-outbreaks, and will
ensure the maximum net return
from each sheep. Also run
some cattle, but no more than
can be safely carried through
an average season, because they
can be a headache in a drought.
Having set to work to
obtain the maximum net return
from each sheep, the wool-
grower can now consider other
ways of improving his income
—assuming the wool-market
still allows him to have one!
The next thing to do, while
still cutting as much wool as
possible a head, is to increase
his carrying - capacity by
pasture-improvement.
By pasture-improvement I
mean more than the well-
known formula of sub.-clover,
rye-grass and super., which,
apart from its high initial
expense, does not necessarily
suit all areas. I consider that
anything which can be culti-
vated in place of natural grass
—lucerne, oats or winter-
wheat, all of which can be
grown in this neighborhood


KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
without super. —can be classed
as pasture-improvement, be-
cause all these crops give better
food-value than the original
pasture.
Most properties in the north-
west slopes district have some
patches of cultivation, some
have an appreciable amount;
but it is in our as-yet-untouched
arable land that our greatest
opportunities lie. There’s a
chance here of adding another
irpn to our fire, as many have
already done, by cereal-grow-
ing, and it's also a cheap way
of working land into grazing-
lucerne.
It is common practice now,
since lucerne grows so well
here, to sow it with a cover-
crop of wheat or oats. Even
if very little arable land is
available, it’s surprising what
a difference a small patch of
grazing-oats, too, can make to
a mob of sheep if they are
allowed access to it one day
a week during the winter. I
reckon it can put as much
as 21b. a head of wool on them
—and this is all clear profit, if
the crop can be let go to head
and stripped later.
For any reasonably substan-
tial area of arable land it is
possible to devise a programme
so that a certain proportion is
cleared each year and laid-
down to wheat or oats. If
seasons are reasonable and the
wheat-market holds good, costs
for clearing and fencing should
be covered by the crop—and if
there is insufficient demand for
oats on the market they cer-
tainly don’t go astray if stored
for fodder. The following year
lucerne can be sown with
wheat or, for that matter, oats
as a cover-crop, and there’s a
paddock of grazing-lucerne
which, from my experience,
can usually run two hoggets an
acre right through the year.
The same year as the first
wheat-paddock is sown another
patch can be cleared and got
ready for the plough, and as
more lucerne is established the
number of sheep—and cattle,
too, perhaps—can be increased.
If this programme is
arranged to extend over a
period of, say, six years, and
the arabie land is divided into
six equal portions, by the time
the last plot is sown-down to
wheat and lucerne the first plot
will be starting to run-out. So
it is possible to start all over
again, plough-up the first
lucerne-paddock, replant it with
wheat or oats, and expect a
bumper crop, in an average
season, because of the nitro-
gen left in the ground by the
lucerne. Next year it should
be possible to sow wheat and
lucerne again, because lucerne
seems to follow well after
cereals.
This seems to me to be the
answer for the average wool-
grower to the recession. Each
year he has his sheep cutting
the maximum amount of wool
a head; he will have reason-
able expectation of a good crop
of wheat and oats ; his sheep-
numbers should be up by at
least one sheep for each acre
of lucerne established, and his
carrying-capacity for cattle will
be increased. More than that,
his lambing-percentages will
probably be increased, and he
will be in a position to experi-
ment with the clover-grass
mixtures, since his income will
have increased and his pastures
are already laid-out.
Vietnam Dairyfarm
“D. Downs”: As part of
the Colombo Plan, Australia
has spent about £20,000 dur-
ing the past two years in
equipping a model dairy near
Saigon, under the direction of
R. M. Lyall, of Malvern (Vic.).
The idea is to educate Viet-
namese in modern dairying
technique, and a buying-
mission has come to Australia
to obtain £150,000-worth of
Jersey cattle (160 head) for the
Vietnam dairyfarm.
Corriedales
“Pat O'Day”: Sheepbreeders
around Gundagai (N.S.W.)
find it pays to run Corriedales
as dual-purpose sheep. Last
April, Corriedale breeders in
this district noted that Corrie-
dale wool often fetched lid.
a pound more than excellent
Merino wool sold from the
same property earlier in the
year. (Though, admittedly, if
sold in April, this Merino wool
would have realised much
more).
If a Corriedale ewe is joined
to a Polworth ram the progeny
will be big-framed, even and
readily saleable, either in the
wool or as sucker-lambs. Even
if forced to depend on natural
grasses and clover, Corriedale-
Polworth lambs are able to
regain condition after weaning.
And they look attractive
enough, after trucking, to fetch
top price at the saleyards.
In this district, it’s been
found best to join an aged
(four-year-old or five-year-old)
Corriedale ewe to a young
Polworth ram. The lamb-
percentage is higher with an
older mother, which looks after
the lambs better than a
maiden ewe. Some graziers on
the s.-w. slopes join their
Corriedale ewes as late as
March, in order to ensure an
August drop, which will get
the benefit of the spring.
Rabbits in Westralia
“P.N.”: Rabbits look like
becoming a serious pest in W.A.
again, and the blame for this
lies squarely on individual
farmers, too lazy or too indif-
ferent to co-operate with the
Department of Agriculture.
Even before the full impact
of myxomatosis had been felt,
farmers were warned to take
follow-up action, and were
advised to rip-out the warrens
and poison systematically and
continuously. If they’d done
that, and kept at it, the bunny
would have been finished for
keeps. But, given a breathing-
space, he’s back on his feet —•
and those who hailed myxoma-
tosis as a savior now know
that it has only one punch,
and that not a killer.
It’s not too late yet to reap
the benefit of that punch,
though it soon will be. Depart-
ment officials know that the
poisoning-drive they’ve em-
barked on could keep rabbits
from getting the upper hand
again ; but they also know that
the drive has to be thorough.
Merely to keep the pest under
control needs a 90 per cent,
kill, and they get that, or near
enough, where their own teams
precede the poison - cart,
systematically laying un-
poisoned baits for three weeks
to draw all the rabbits in the
paddocks and then putting
down the poison-baits.
The department can’t do that
throughout the entire wheat-
belt, nor is it their job. Some
farmers do co-operate, and
they find it isn’t a long job,
and that it pays handsomely ;
but many won’t co-operate.
Some don’t lay any trails at
all, and others rush them out
a few days before the poison
is laid.
That poison, 1080, is effec-
tive, but it can’t work miracles.
It won’t draw rabbits from any
great distance. That’s where the'
comparatively lengthy free-
feeding period comes in.
Rabbits must be coaxed along
the set trails, and at certain
times of the year they can be —-
but not in three days.
This lack of co-operation
isn’t confined to rabbit-extermi-
nation. The team which deals
with Argentine ants has done
a wonderful job over the past
few years, setting a standard
few private contractors could
equal. This pest can make
whole districts almost unin-
habitable ; yet, though there’s
a need for any recurrence of
infestation to be reported
immediately, fresh outbreaks
aren’t being notified until the
ants have secured a strong foot-
ing. Usually a number of
properties are involved before
someone becomes interested
enough to phone the depart-
ment, and even householders
who a couple of years back
lived in dread of a tiny ant now
can’t be bothered to help the
team that removed the threat.
I could cite further examples
of public apathy on the same
lines —noxious weeds, for in-
stance —-but this rabbit-problem
is urgent. Costs increase, and
the chances of success decrease,
each week.
Enterprise
“Q.”: In eight years a
former motor-mechanic, com-
pletely inexperienced in farm-
ing, has, with son and daughter
helping, turned his 320-acre
property in the Bell (Q.) district
into a demonstration-farm for
improved-pastures, under the
Commonwealth Dairy Industry
Extension Grant.
The farmer, Edwin Buck,
formerly owned a service-
station in a Brisbane suburb ;
what he has achieved on the
land has been accomplished
under the advice and guidance
of the Queensland Department
of Agriculture and Stock. The


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
Bucks are now amongst the
most go-ahead farmers in the
Bell district.
*
Paperwork
“Malua”: To exterminate
cedar-moths and similar pests,
you need nothing more scien-
tific than last Sunday’s news-
paper.
Throw a few bits of solid
material as bait under your
trees in the evening. The
caterpillars will browse on the
tree all night and come down
in the morning to hide from
their natural enemies under the
doss-house you’ve provided.
About midday turn over your
bits and pieces and run a
lighted newspaper-torch over
the sleeping herds.
Repeat this each day until
annihilation is complete in
your trees, at any rate.
Seeding-rates
“Billjim”: When re-estab-
lishing pastures on old clover-
country some landowners
wrongly use the same seeding-
rates as on new land. In the
opinion of S.A. agronomist
N. S. Tiver heavier rates will
give better establishment,
especially if the seedbed is well
prepared.
Perennial and short-rotation
rye-grasses are best for heavier
soils in the wetter districts.
Methods of establishment must
depend on whether or not the
old pasture is free from Cape-
weed. If it’s free, closely graze
the paddock in summer and
early autumn ; then, with a
disk-drill, sod-seed a mixture
of 101 b. perennial and 51b.
short-rotation rye to the acre.
Sow just before the anticipated
opening of the season or imme-
diately after the first rain.
For weed-infested areas there
are two methods. The weeds
can be destroyed by ploughing
and rye-grass can then be
drilled-in on a well-prepared
seedbed at the rate of 71b.
perennial and 31b. short-
rotation to the acre. Alterna-
tively, weeds can be destroyed
by spraying, and the rye-grass
disk-drilled in, with the rate
increased to 101 b. perennial and
51b. short-rotation.
Phalaris or cocksfoot must
be sown in clean, well-prepared
ground ; because neither takes
kindly to sod-seeding. For
autumn sowing, drill at 41b. an
acre as soon as weeds have
been effectively killed. In
spring disk-drill at 21b. an
acre not later than early Sep-
tember. Roll before and after
sowing.
Victorian Mallee
“O’Yen”: Before War I,
when the Victorian Mallee
districts were first developed,
the practice used to be to
clear the scrub and sow cereals,
with or without super., in order
to secure the quickest possible
return from the land. When
the first crop was harvested the
stubble v was burned and
another crop sown. After
many years of this, with little
or no rotation, the soil became
impoverished, and the frequent
high winds of drought-years
caused it to drift alarmingly—
much of it, caught in the whirl-
wind of red dust that swept
down from the interior, finished
in the ocean 300 miles away.
Ideas have changed radically
since War I, and now the area
has become Victoria’s granary.
From bitter experience it’s
been found best to double or
treble the size of the original
640-acre holdings, so as to
allow rotation of crops. Suc-
cessive years of rainfall higher
than the average llin. have
helped lucerne, rye-grasses and
the clovers, and so have im-
proved carrying-capacity. But
the main improvement is in
land-use.
The new technique with
cereals is to chop-up the
stubble with a tandem disk-
harrow ; then the crop is drill-
sown through the loose straw.
This method has maintained
yields in the sandy soil, and
guards against drift. The
soil has become more resistant
to weeds, which previously
throve in its run-down state.
Another advantage of
retaining the stubble is that it
helps pastures to survive their
first period of dry heat.
Water Conservation
“North”: The slump in
wool-prices has stopped work
on water-improvement on
many properties in Queens-
land’s far-western districts.
Costly earthmoving-plant is
lying idle in some western
towns —one large contracting
firm, for instance, has 34 plants
doing nothing at Longreach,
Blackall and Charleville
though the need for improved
water-supplies is still para-
mount.
The Queensland Government
will make finance available
under the Farm Water Sup-
plies’ Assistance Act, and the
Agricultural Bank offers to
make advances up to 90 per
cent, of the value of approved
works, at the rate of 5{- per
cent, interest, with repayment
spread over 12 years and only
interest repayable during the
first two years. Security ex-
pected is a priority mortgage,
which requires an existing mort-
gagee to cede priority ~to the
bank.
Cattle-tick
“Kaytee”: Cattlemen in
northern Queensland should be
pleased about the C.5.1.R.0.
field-station set up near Ingham
to study the control of cattle-
tick in the tropics. Similar
studies in southern Queensland
resulted in practical recom-
mendations for control in that
area.
Methods recommended for
the southern part of the State
were based on improved know-
ledge of the tick’s life-cycle.
Observation showed that most
larvae die within three months
of hatching unless a host
presents itself, and that few
of the progeny of adult females
falling from April to July
survive the winter. Ticks
picked-up by cattle in early
August are generally those
hatched before April, which
have survived the winter as
larvae.
Spring is the weak spot in
the tick’s life-cycle, and this
was exploited by regular dip-
ping from September to
December. After as few as
four dippings in D.D.T. during
this period there was only very
light infestation in the summer.
Occasionally it was necessary
to dip once or twice in late
March or early April to reduce
the autumn wave of ticks.
Thus, it was proved that six
dippings a year at strategic
intervals are enough to keep
the parasite under control.
Rotation of pastures was
also tried as a means of control.
Cattle were dipped in D.D.T.
a few days before being moved
into a spelled paddock, and
were later moved into another
paddock. It was found that if
paddocks were spelled for
three months in summer and
four or five months in winter,
using three paddocks, effective
control could be attained with-
out any dipping at all. On a
couple of properties in tick-
fever areas where this method
was used the ticks were com-
pletely done away with.
Generally, these methods
only aid a programme aimed
at eradication, but they have
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(18/6/’59)
The southern half of Queensland and its north coastal
districts should receive good rains during July, although
falls may be light elsewhere. With the exception of the
far western districts, moderate to good rains should con-
tinue for the rest of the year.
In N.S.W. rainfall may vary during July, being light
in part of the Riverina and far western districts. Best
rains should occur in the northern divisions, with heaviest
falls on the North Coast. Moderate to good rains should
continue for the rest of the year, with heavy rains and
flooding likely in November.
Victoria may have only patchy rains during July, which
may be cold, with widespread frosts. However, good
rains should be received for the remainder of the year.
In South Australia rainfall may be patchy and below
normal during July, although good rains should start in
the agricultural areas in August and continue during the
spring. Rainfall may be patchy in the interior.
The agricultural areas of Western Australia should
receive moderate rain during July, with good rains likely in
August. Rainfall may be patchy elsewhere in the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
been proved sound for con-
trolling ticks. In the past,
resistance to each new type
of tickicide has been built-up,
but this pasture-spelling or
strategic dipping allows
chemicals to be kept for
emergencies, and so resistance
to them is avoided.
Reviving Cotton
“Rodger”: Cotton has been
grown in tropical Australia for
the past 100 years. In Queens-
land, particularly, it used to
be an important crop, though
never a stable one. Grown
extensively during the 10 years
following War I, it dwindled
to 52,000 acres in 1938, com-
pared with roughly 130,0.00 in
1930. Last year about 11,000
acres were planted.
Before the days of
mechanical harvesters the
cotton-industry depended for
its labor on the large pool of
unemployed, who were ready
to snatch any work, however
strange it might be to them.
Cotton-picking called for no
particular skill beyond the
ability to work long hours. It
was not hard work, only
tedious ; so men of all ages and
degrees of physical condition
could make their living at it.
During War II attempts to
revive the industry failed, be-
cause there was no labor avail-
able to pick the crop.
There is now a determined
drive to revive cotton again.
The time is opportune, because,
with prices of grain and
dairy-produce declining, many
farmers are looking for suit-
able crops to help them out.
Most of the cotton is grown in
districts where butter and grain
predominate. The need for a
reserve pool of labor, forced
by circumstance to chase a job
anywhere, no longer exists.
Mechanical harvesters, which
will pick the crop quickly and
easily, can be worked by any-
one, and they lend themselves
to community-pooling or con-
tract-work, which can cut down
individual costs. Irrigation,
even on a small scale, has over-
come the effects of the long
dry-spells that are a feature of
the tropical cottonbelt.
Cotton-growing today is,
however, a different proposi-
tion from what it was 20 or
30 years ago. In those days,
once the timber was felled and
burnt, it cost almost nothing
to bring the crop to the picking-
stage. The farmer planted the
crop by hand with a walking-
stick-planter that cost about
305.; seed was supplied at cut
rates by the Cotton Board, and
weeds and suckers were
knocked-down with a hoe cost-
ing about 7s. On cultivated
land horses were the main
source of power, and, apart
from a small amount of home-
grown maize, the animals kept
themselves on natural grass.
The machinery needed for the
crop was a plough, a set of
diamond-harrows and a two-
row planter for cultivating
between the rows —total cost,
about £7O. There were no
expensive fuel-bills, few repairs
and practically no depreciation.
Today costly machinery is
“ Another , quick — I'm next!”
needed for growing even a 10-
acre patch of cotton. The
horse has been replaced by a
tractor that may cost up to
£2000; soil has to be more
carefully worked than it used
to be, and sundercuts and
scarifiers are needed to fit
behind the tractor. The seed
will most likely be drilled-in
with a combine costing about
£4OO. The crop will probably
need an application of fertiliser
—unknown in the days when
the soil was rich and unspoiled.
To ensure any degree of cer-
tainty there must be irrigation,
which will entail an outlay of
£lOOO or more. Pest-control
and regular spraying, to
combat grubs and other pests
that skim the cream off the
cheque, will also be part of
the game.
This does not mean there’s
no future in cotton. It has
bright prospects, but there
will have to be a new approach
on the part of the grower. The
crop is no longer just a means
of making a few bob on the
cheap, or a fill-in while the
land is being grassed. Cotton
must be recognised as
requiring careful land-prepara-
tion, complete pest-control, and
application of water at critical
stages of growth. This limits
the area planted on most
farms, where it will be grown
not as the only source of
income but as part of the
cropping-programme.
Unirrigated cotton is a most
uncertain crop. Apart from
pests, which can ruin a crop
quickly if unchecked, lack of
rain can cut the harvest by at
least 50 per cent. Cotton does
not require a heavy rainfall—
indeed, on well-cultivated soil
too much rain is worse than
not enough. But rain is needed
at certain stages of growth,
and if it does not then fall
harvests will be light, no matter
how much falls later.
Cottongrowers of 30 years
ago used to say that the first
harvest (or “pick,” as it was
called) went to pay the cotton-
picker, the second pick paid
incidental expenses and put a
little in the grower’s pocket,
while the third was all profit.
Consequently, if the crop was
light, there was little left for
the grower. In bad years, he
was lucky to come out square
after all his hard work.
The crux of the matter is
that, if cotton is to be grown
under the present high cost of
farming, the crop must succeed
or the farmer will have nothing
to show for his labor. He must
harvest the equivalent of those
three picks to show any profit
after all costs have been met.
This makes irrigated cotton a
“must.” The hazards are too
great when all is left to the
weather.
Fortunately, many of Aus-
tralia’s tropical cotton-areas
are well served with under-
ground water suitable for irri-
gation. Even if the water is
not 100 per cent, fit for irriga-
tion, the fact that cotton must
be rotated with other farm-
crops ensures that the soil will
not be damaged by prolonged
application of harder water.
The crop needs to be rotated,
and grass seems best for the
purpose. This is ideal for a
farm running a dairy-herd or
beef-cattle. Peanuts and grain
are other crops that can be
used for rotation in conjunc-
tion with cotton.
The price of cotton is
guaranteed for the next five
years. Costs can be worked-
out on the present level, be-
cause surely they cannot go
much higher. Many property-
owners in the more remote
parts of the tropical cotton belt
are cultivating land for crops
and pastures, and have enough
water for irrigation. These are
the places where cotton could
well come into the cropping-
programme.
There will probably never be
a return to the days when 100
acres of cotton on one property
was commonplace. It’s more
likely that a large number of
growers will be able to plant
about 20 acres, principally
irrigated, and return a profit
as large as, if not larger than
was previously harvested from
50 acres, dependent on the
vagaries of the weather. But
such a revival will need careful
planning by farmers and a
continued guarantee from the
Commonwealth Government.


come back to Medical and at
5 p.m. I explain to the doctor
what has happened. He medi-
tates, and then decides that my
b.-i.-f. is of a secondary nature.
My main trouble, he thinks, is
an anxiety-neurosis about being
out-of-work. Very bad diagnos-
ing, that!
He gives me a script for
Dispensary and an order to
come back and see him on
April 21, after having a blood-
count taken in the interim. Be-
fore again disappearing into
the night, I - visit Dispensary.
I'm given two small boxes of
pills in return for 17s. cash.
Very expensive, this waiting
about.
As I walk home two im-
pressions remain with me. One
is the age of the attendants in
Out Patients—not the doctors,
or the nurses, or the superior-
type females behind counters
—but the fetchers and carriers.
Nothing-under-sixty seems to
be the rule. The other thing is
the frustrated racing- and
tearing-about of the nursing-
sisters, who seem to be con-
tinually having to hunt-round
for papers which the office-
staff have either mislaid or
misdirected. Why this should
happen, beats me. From
my observation (and experience)
it seems to be only too common.
Papers which should be in the
hands of the doctor when the
patient presents himself, too
often have to be hunted-up or
searched-for, although the date
and time of the appointment is
known and recorded. Why
should this be necessary?
April 21, I present myseif
again for the blood-count.
It’s the day of the Opening of
State Parliament, next-door to
JOHN ENDEAN.
“Hello!"
Sydney Hospital. I can’t help
noticing the attendants on the
veranda of Parliament House.
Great healthy-looking coves
clad in well-fitting, warm and
comfortable police-uniforms.
Room for thought here. In
one building the law-makers,
their attendants young, robust
and smartly-clad ; in the build-
ing next-door, Sydney's age-
pensioners and ailing citizens,
their attendants not young, not
robust and far-from-smartly
clad.
Bad day, this. At the blood-
count a superior-type female
tells me to sit and I'll be
attended-to later. She proves
a good prophet. Blood-
counted at last, I return for
my afternoon appointment.
I’ve learned a little by this, and
although the appointment is
for 2 p.m., I arrive at 1.30 p.m.
My cunning avails me nothing.
My papers aren’t located until
3.35 p.m. and I’m second-last
patient interviewed. Pretty
tough, but not nearly as tough
as the plight of the old gentle-
man and his wife sitting on the
seat opposite the Registrar’s
office. They tell me they got
here at 11 a.m., the old chap
to be admitted. They’re still
there when I leave at 5.5 p.m.,
after my interview with the
Medical feller.
Very nice bloke, the Med.,
though very frustrated —trying
to treat people with no history-
cards is pretty tough. Yes,
believe it or not, they can’t
find my blood-count papers.
The X-ray of my Adam’s
apple comes to light, though.
Quite clear, I’m informed. No
stones showing. (I check-up
later. Weights are right.)
I’m told to reappear at
Medical on a stated date.
I’m also given two more types
of medicine in return for eight-
bob. That makes five types of
potion.
lyrow I come to the crux of
the matter. My I.Q. may
be that of a 12-year-old child.
However, I do feel that there’s
something wrong with the
administration of Sydney Hos-
pital. I’m not trying to knock
the doctors or the nursing-staff.
They’re doing a grand job in
the face of great handicaps.
As to my own little trouble
with the b.-i.-f., this apparently
involves admittance for ob-
servation and possibly opera-
tion. I'm a little apprehensive.
Not at what the doctors or
nurses will do to me. But I
don’t want my papers to get
mixed-up with those of a
death-rattler.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want!
Words of poem “The Riding of
the Rebel,” author unknown. —
6841.
Words of F. Anstey’s The Burglar,
the Child and the Dolls’ House. —
6840.
Bees and Honey, by Billy Good-
acre. —6842.
Information Sought
How to remove dark stains from
concrete paths ?
Dark marks on concrete paths
which have been down for a
considerable time may be due either
to a delayed action by organic
material or certain inorganic
materials originally present in the
concrete aggregates or to a lichen-
growth likely to appear after pro-
longed wet weather. Where stain-
ing is due to the first of these
causes its removal may be difficult,
if not impossible. Where it is
simply due to lichen-growth, wire-
brush the affected areas and wash
with a weak muriatic-acid solution
or with a weak solution of a soluble
copper salt. In either case the
solution should be left on only for
a few minutes, and the path then
washed with plenty of clean water.
* * * *
What causes corrugations in
roads ?
The weight of a vehicle depresses
the gravel road-surface under the
wheels. As the vehicle advances,
the depression moves, too, and
tends to roll or push the surface
in the direction the vehicle is
moving. The material pushed in
front of the wheel cannot escape,
and tends to build-up with increas-
ing movement. This increases the
resistance to further pushing until
a point is reached when the load
rides over this built-up material
and then repeats the action on the
other side. This is the action that
results in corrugation. The corruga-
tions produced by one vehicle are
minute, but the cumulative effect
of a number of vehicles may pro-
duce marked corrugations. They
vary with the speed and volume
of traffic, climate and the nature
of the material with which the road
is paved.
* • • *
Information on balladist C. H.
Souter ?
Charles Henry Souter was born
in Aberdeen (Scotland) in 1864,
and came to Australia in 1879. He
lived for several years in the bush;
returned to Aberdeen to graduate
in medicine, came back to Australia
and worked on the sea for a time
before settling down in medical
‘practice in S.A. He died in 1944.
Souter published four books of
poetry — Irish Lords and Other
Verses (1912), To Many Ladies and
Others (1917), The Mallee Fire and
Other Verses (1923) and The Lonely
Rose and Other Verses (1935). His
lyrics are simple expressions of
human relationships, or of Nature
observed and considered. He is
best remembered for- his fluent
ballads and sea-chanties.
* * * *
What were broadside ballads ?
Popular songs and poems, written
in doggerel, which were printed on
a single sheet of paper, decorated
with woodcuts, with the name of
the tune to which the ballads in
question were to be sung. They
were sold for a penny or two on
the street-corners of England in the
late 16th and early 17th centuries.
Subject - matter was drawn from
political events, battles, murders,
strange happenings, executions,
freakish births, domestic quarrels,
etc., and also included moral
exhortations and religious propa-
ganda, particularly during the
Protestant-Catholic controversies.
Origin and meaning of the word
blarney ?
It means soft, wheedling speech
to gain some end; flattery, or lying,
with unblushing effrontery. Blarney
is a village near Cork (Eire);
legend has it that Cormac McCarthy
held its castle in 1602 and con-
cluded an armistice with Carew, the
Lord President, on condition of
surrendering the fort to the English
garrison. Day after day his lord-
ship looked for the fulfilment of
the terms, receiving nothing but
soft speeches; he became the
laughing-stock of Eliz a b e t h's
Ministers as the dupe of the Lord
of Blarney.


THE MOLLIDAYS
New Recordings
“I Wonder Would he mind if I looked over his shoulder ?”
Fine String Music
It’s always pleasant to find
classical music by virtually
unheard-of composers, espcci-
ally of the English school. I
first encountered John Jenkins,
who very nicely bridges the
gap between Gibbons and
Purcell, at a friend's place a
few years ago ; it was a wintry
late afternoon, and my friend,
who had been unwise enough
to ask me what I liked in the
way of records, and who had
subsequently to endure Bach
most of the afternoon, put on
some Jenkins. One still remem-
bers the crackling log-fire and
that superb Elizabethan poly-
phony . .. .
Here he is again, on Argo
RG 73 ; title of the record is
John Jenkins ( 1592-1678 ):
Fancies and Ayres, played by
the Oxford Chamber Players
in the chapel of Worcester
College, Oxford. Musical
director is Raymond Clauson.
After hearing this record,
one’s first reaction is “What a
fine composer! Why has he
been neglected?” Then, as
always, second thoughts start
to crystallise, and you remem-
ber that, in Jenkins’s time,
music-making was the done
thing: you played and com-
posed or paid others to play
and compose, or you went
without music. Jenkins was
one of the many who composed
and one df the few with a
fairly human patron. If the
mus ‘ c on this disk is in any
typical of the general
standard of composition in the
cen t uries OI ) e
begins to wonder whether, in
these enlightened times, we will
ver , suc h a musically
fruitful period again Britten
or no Written,
On the first side there are
four Fancies for five string-
parts and organ. Provided you
had a working-knowledge of
harmony and counterpoint,
these Fancies must have been
fun to write, simply because
musicians often discarded the
laborious rules of canto firmo
and, birdlike, soared away to
explore new fields.
But one or two anchors
tended to dissuade would-be
radicals: the use, for instance,
of canonic imitation. Jenkins
was no radical; in the first
Fancy he bounces in with a
short subject which is thrown
from part to part and then
developed. No one in his right
senses would say it approaches
the unified strictness of a
fugue; it is canonic. This
piece, set in a minor key, ends
with a very slight ralleniando
and a final decisive chord in
the major mode (Tierce de
Picardie). This is a con-
templative bit of writing; even
the organ’s silver tinkerings in
the background can’t change
that feeling.
The • next Fancy is more
lively—Jenkins uses suspen-
sions (tied-over notes which
accentuate weak beats) to
heighten the rhythmic effect.
Here, as in all this music,
cadence-points are rarely far
away, and swift key-changes
never occur. Perhaps that is
one reason for this music’s
rock-steady harmonic founda-
tion: these early writers knew
how to exploit the resources
of a given key!
The third and fourth
Fancies are more like the first
in terms of mood ; the third is
in C Minor, and is a fugal
little string-excursion, neither
fast nor slow and with a sad
flavor to it. The fourth is
serene and slow.
The second side opens with
another Fancy for five parts
and organ, exquisite in its
slender charm, not unlike an
opening number from a Corelli
suite. After this, there is a
short, brisk Ayre; then, by
way of contrast, a pensive Ayre
in minor key, with one" or two
extremely subtle changes of
key. Incidentally, these Ayres
are in four parts—i.e., no
organ. Talking of the organ,
the instrument used sounds
like a small chamber-organ;
it blends perfectly with the
strings, imparting a mellow
roundness and an occasional
fluty sparkle. There are two
other Ayres on this side, of
which the second-last is in three .
sections: two sections are in
4/4 time, the last in 3/4.
This record is unreservedly
recommended, not only for the
excellent string- and organ-
playing, but because it gives a
glimpse of the colorful Eliza-
bethan musical scene. The
jacket-note tells you that much
of Jenkins’s music is dispersed
and therefore unavailable; but
one sincerely hopes that some
intending M.A. will scout
around and resurrect Jenkins’s
music and write a thesis on
him. —A. W.
❖ ❖ ❖
More Midgets
A couple of Coronet 7in. 33£
“Gems from the Classics”
which, despite their size,
refused to fit into the last “New
Recordings” page (B. 17/6/’59).
The first is KGC 131 ; Bidu
Sayao singing four Puccini
arias “One. Fine Day,”
“Musetta’s Waltz Song,” “Oh,
My Beloved Daddy” and
“They Call Me Mimi.”
The springboard-jump in
‘"Oh, My Beloved Daddy” is a
stunner. Technically, she is
inclined to be a little loose in
her separation of adjacent
notes; generally pleasant,
though, and orchestral backing
and engineering are good.
Fausto Cleva conducts the
Metropolitan Opera Asso-
ciation of New York through
ballet-music from Gounod’s
“Faust.” Surprisingly, in view
of some of Gounod's writing,
this stuff is reasonably tuneful,
and manages not to fall into
sloppy cliches. Cleva keeps the
orchestra moving along and,
while the playing is not
startling in terms of virtuosity,
it is nevertheless buoyant
enough to be commended.
Number of the disk is KGC
138, and the jacket looks
straight from the Styx.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Stately Queen’s Hall, Parliament
House, was the setting for a reception
given by State Parliament in honor of
the world centenary of Red Cross. The
Acting Premier and Mrs. Rylah received
almost 500 guests who had come, so
Colonel Allan Spowers said in his speech
of thanks to Mr. Rylah, “from Croajing-
along to Corio, from Mildura to Mel-
bourne,” all of them ardent workers for
Red Cross. Among those who attended
were Chief lustice Sir Edmund Herring ;
Australian Red Cross president Sir John
Latham ; the vice-chairman of the Vic-
torian division, Mrs. Eccles Mac Kay ;
Australian vice-chairman Mrs. A. G.
Scantlebury and Dr. Scantlebury ; Mr.
and Mrs. Howard Buchanan ; Dr. Lucy
Bryce; Sir Peter MacCallum and his
daughter Monica ; Sir F. Kingsley
Norris and Lady Norris; Mrs. Frank
May ; Mrs. Roger Kimpton; Miss
Sybil Irving; Mrs. Henry Steel and
Anne Swallow.
* ☆ ☆
In a deluge, the Governor arrived at
the Windsor Theatre for the premiere of
the film “Man in White,” which is the
story of Henri Dunant, founder of Red
Cross. This function was one of several
organised to celebrate the centenary of
Red Cross. On his arrival Sir Dallas was
met by A.R.C. Society vice-president Sir
John Latham, the chairman of the Vic-
torian division (Colonel Allan Spowers),
premiere-committee chairman Mrs. G.
Scantlebury, Mrs. Eccles Mac Kay, Dame
Mary Daly and Mr. Howard Buchanan.
The programme-sellers’, who wore
crinoline gowns in various colors and
with their hair dressed in ringlets, were
the Governor’s daughter, Mrs. Robin
Byrne, and her co-ticket-secretary Mrs.
Bruce Matear, Mrs. Robert Lane, Mrs.
Douglas Bowden, Mrs. Gary Gray, Mrs.
Peter Kinnear, Mrs. John Gough, Diana
Mac Kay and Marilyn Cottrell.
☆ ☆ ☆
Michael Pate and Toni Lamond, who
star in “The Tunnel of Love” at the
Princess, were, with fellow-members of
the cast Lisa Hamilton, Monica .Shear-
gold and Olive Verdon, guests of the
Young Contingent of the Victoria League
at a luncheon in the clubrooms. Mrs.
Pate accompanied her husband, and they
were received by president Pamela
Middleton. Others there to meet and
greet the guests-of-honor were Elizabeth
Duckett, Margaret Beck, Tatiana Firth,
Clarissa Starey, Barbara Hewitt, Lael
Bassett (just returned from a trip over-
seas) and Y.C.’s hon. treasurer, John
Jensz.
☆ ☆ ☆
An exhibition of classical- and folk-
dancing by Thai students was a feature
of the reception given to 300 guests by
the Consul for Thailand and Mrs. H. I.
Fader at Stanmark, East St. Kilda, in
honor of their country’s National Day.
The hostess wore a smart black guipure-
lace sheath cocktail-frock and tiny
matching bolero. Among the guests were
Mr. Alec Fraser (representing the
Premier) and Mrs. Fraser; Mr. John
Wedgwood and his wife, Senator Ivy
Wedgwood ; the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress ; Town Clerk F. H. Rogan and
Mrs. Rogan ; Group-Captain and Mrs.
S. Shi Sho (he is the Armed Forces
Attache for Burma) ; Mr. «and Mrs.
Victor Roche ; Mr. and Mrs. John
Calder; Mr. and Mrs. W. Glover;
Lieut.-General and Mrs. H. G. Edgar ;
Major-General and Mrs. C. H. Finlay ;
Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. A. Murdoch ;
and Air-Commodore and Mrs. D. Creal.
A former ice-skating champion, petite
Mavis Turner had intended to become a
professional skater-until John Alden,
looking for a very slight girl for a
Shakspearian production in Sydney eight
years ago, opened-up for her a stage-
career. Now with the company currently
doing a season of the Bard at the
Comedy, she was a very pleasing Nerissa
in “The Merchant of Venice," and has.
been tripping gracefully through “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream” as Titania.
Photo by Montgomery Dunn.
“Starlight Roof,” the current Tivoli
show, is notable for originality of stage-
settings, brilliant costumes and talented
performers. In the audience on opening-
night were Carol Silk, whose pale-lime-
green satin-brocade frock was threaded
with narrow brown-satin ribbon on the
strapless bodice, and with a band of it
on the bouffant skirt; her grandmother,
Mrs. H. Silk, who covered her frock
with a full-length natural-mink coat;
Mrs. Ken Luke, her choice a silver-blue
mink stole and short sheath-frock of
powder-blue French-lace ; the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Sir Frederick
and Lady Thomas); Sir Frank and Lady
Richardson ; Mr. and Mrs. John Watts ;
the Hon. and Mrs. Simon Warrender;
Mr. and Mrs. Saul Aarons; Mrs. Ray
Shatin and her daughter Christine (the
latter recently returned from doing a
post-graduate course in nursing in the
U.S.); Mr. and Mrs. Michael Tate;
Mr. and Mrs. Eric Cottrell (the large
pearls and silver sequins which encrusted
the neckline of her black frock most
attractive) ; Mr and Mrs. Ernest Green-
half ; Mrs. David Martin ; and Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Christie.
☆ ☆ ☆
On a night of weather that would have
been much more appropriate to “The
Winter’s Tale” (which will be the next
presentation by these talented players)
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream” opened
at the Comedy. In the audience were
Sir Frank and Lady Tait, Mr. and Mrs.
Eric Rogers and her daughter Paulette
(both wearing attractive short velvet
frocks), Mr. and Mrs. Colin Russell,
Mrs. Ken Luke and her small daughter
Jennifer, Mary Ward, Mrs. Montgomerie
(her daughter Elaine was playing lead),
the Henry Dennetts and Mr. and Mrs.
John Wallace.
☆ ☆ ☆
Many of the 1100 dancers at the
annual National Theatre Arts Ball held
at St. Kilda Palais looked as though they
had just stepped from the pages of a
fairytale book. A prize-winner was a
slender lass who went as a black French
poodle ; a tall young man, also a prize-
winner, went as a Christmas-tree, his
long, tight-fitting trousers edged with
tinsel and on his head an immense hat
topped high with multicolored baubles.
The prizewinning group was a toreador
and his entourage. Fred Asmussen, the
toreador, wore a lavishly-embroidered
suit and cloak he brought back from a
visit to Spain ; the girls wore attractive
Spanish costumes, the young men black-
wool tights and horned heads.
Official guests were received by ball-
committee president Lady Knox, who
wore an old-world gown with a white
powdered wig. They included the Lord
Mayor, Sir Frederick Thomas; Lady
Angliss, who wore a Spanish costume with
a black lace mantilla ; National Theatre
director Gertrude Johnson, also in a
Spanish costume; Lady Smithers, who
was a colorful gipsy ; Sir Edgar Coles,
dressed as a Victorian beau, and his wife,
who wore a black wig with her lovely
blue-satin Chinese national costume ; Sir
Arthur and Lady Warner (her powder-
blue chiffon gown was worn with a white
mink stole); Cr. and Mrs. W. Comeadow
and Cr. and Mrs. Bernard Evans (the
latter, a member of the ball-committee,
chose a gown of hydrangea-blue satin).
Lady Tait and Evie Hayes, who were
among the judges, both wore smart black
gowns.


SYDNEY
In a week when winter made up for
late arrival by a mighty display of snow
and rain, life became more like wrestling
than dancing. Even to keep one’s feet
against onslaughts (in crowded bus and
tram, at any rate) wasn’t easy.
The sight of a smart young miss wear-
ing thick woollen stockings no longer
attracts more than a stray glance from
passers-by on city streets. The fashion,
which was copied from colleges over-
seas where winters are really severe, has
been eagerly followed. Elders are amazed
(who would have attempted to persuade
the wearers to discard their sheer hosiery
a year ago?), but the fashion is sure to
please mothers and elder sisters
immensely.
☆ * ☆
Celebration of Red Cross Centenary
throughout the world on June 24
reminded that good is not always interred
with the man. At the hospitals * and
homes conducted by the society the
birthday-spirit was very much in
evidence. A special centenary luncheon
was served, and included oysters, chicken
Henri Dunant, Geneva ice-cream and
centenary-cake. Gift-packs of sweets,
cigarettes and toilet-articles were given
to every patient.
At the Lady Gowrie Red Cross Home
at Gordon, where 86 ex-servicemen and
-women live comfortably in very beauti-
ful surroundings, a surprise visit by the
Governor-General, Sir William Slim,
and Lady Slim made it a day to remem-
ber for its residents. The visitors paused
to chat with each one, and soon the
place was rocking with laughter and all
formality vanished. Veterans, proudly
bemedalled, were greeted by Sir William
with such remarks as “Oh, so you’re an
old soldier, too, like me.”... .“Wish I
had as much hair left as you have.” And
he stood, entertained, when the oldest
resident, Mr. C. H. Skittral, • recited his
own poem (all 10 verses), which told of
the Kaiser’s dream of being refused
admission to Hell. Lady Slim had special
words, too, for all the nurses, and when
the soft voice of First World War nurse
Mrs. Ross showed her Scottish origin,
confided that she, too, was from “the
best country in the world.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Cardboard kangaroos, boomerangs
and native spears decorated the walls of
the Pickwick Club when members of the
Nunyara Committee held the third
Boomerang Ball there on Saturday night,
and added to their successes as organisers
and to the funds of the N.S.W. Society
for Crippled Children, for which they
work.
Special guests were Mr. and Mrs. G. B.
Kater (she is patroness - of the committee),
Mr. and Mrs. M. Cornelius and Mr. and
Mrs. C. H. Locke. They were welcomed
by president Allan Johnstone and secre-
tary Mary Tancred, who were tireless in
their efforts to make the night an enjoy-
able one for the 200 people who attended.
They were helped in this by fellow-
members, v/ho included Mr. and Mrs. T.
Molloy, Jan Byrne, Don Gowing, Jeanette
Keeble, Shirley Burns and Hazel Morris
(whose efforts recently brought her a life-
membership on the committee).
Glenda, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
G. R. Merrin, of Bondi, whose engage-
ment to Peter, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
Peter Tyson, of Corrong, Hay, has been
announced, has an office post in Sydney.
She’s very enthusiastic about life in the
country, and thoroughly enjoyed the
round of gaiety in connection with picnic
race-meetings when she recently visited
the Riverina. Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
There was quite a stealthy use of
hankies at the charity film-premiere of
“The Five Pennies” last week, when
Danny Kaye proved he can make people
cry just as easily as he can make them
laugh ; he did both in his film-role of
the father of a little polio-sufferer. How-
ever, the large audience was left quite
comforted at the finish by the personal
appearance on stage of the actor, who
told with much glee that more than
£2OOO had been raised by the premiere,
and that it would directly help polio
victims and other physically-handicapped
people.
A guard-of-honor of V.A.D. members
was formed in the foyer for the Governor
and Lady Woodward, who were wel-
comed by Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere and
Mr. D. E. Greenlaw, as representatives
of the two organisations to benefit from
the night. In the audience were Mr.
Justice Maxwell and Mrs. Maxwell; Mr.
and Mrs. Lawton ; Mr. Robert Graham ;
U.S. Consul Frank Waring and Mrs.
Waring; Mrs. Dan Carroll; Mr.
Norman Rydge ; Mrs. L. Winslow ; Sir
Norman Gregg and his daughter Sheila ;
Mrs. W- J- Lloyd; Mr. and Mrs.
Bertram Wright; Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
Macfarlan ; Mr. and Mrs. Sam Hordern ;
Mrs. E. Crossing ; Mr. and Mrs. Gordon
Johnstone; Mr. and Mrs. John Coghlan
and Miss Ann McGuirk. Host at a party
held afterwards at The Australia was
Mr. Robert Graham, managing-director
of Paramount Pictures.
☆ ☆ ☆
Great preparations are in hand at the
Mosman home of Mr. and Mrs. R. H.
Kempley to welcome back her daughter,
Elizabeth Harrower, and her friend
Margaret Dick, who are arriving in the
Southern Cross from England. Both girls
are writers, and in the eight years Mar-
garet has been in London she has had
several books published.
☆ ☆ ☆
With barely a pause to draw breath
after their successful efforts of money-
raising for the N.S.W. Institution for
Deaf and Blind Children, ardent workers
of the social-committee, headed by Mrs.
Bill White, are deep in further plans. On
July 11 they will hold a ball at the Royal
Motor Yacht Club at Point Piper, which
the Governor and Lady Woodward are
to attend. Arrangements are also in
hand for an Australian Rules football-
match, Navy versus Army, at Trumper
Park on August 2.
# #
Last week the Lady Mayoress met
in her rooms 16 girls who will make their
debut at the Lady Mayoress’s ball on
September 25. They were Robyn Amor,
Denise Berkery, Heather Booth, Cecilia
Brownlie, Beverley Cook, Robyn Teager,
Valerie Cook, Beverley Chalmers, Colleen
Campbell, Noelle Lancon, Pamela Lobb,
Julie Moore, Lorraine Mansfield, Anne
Manning, Denise Simpson and Daphne
Thornton. Mrs. F. H. Campbell, of
Kingsgrove, will present the debutantes
to the Chief Justice, Sir Kenneth Street.
☆ ☆ ☆
An operetta described as “a bubbling
new version of ‘Die Fledermaus’ ” and
with the title of “Pink Champagne” is to
be staged at the Conservatorium on July
3,4, 10 and 11 by the Patrician Musical
Society. The feminine lead of Rosalinda
will be played by Marlene Horsell. The
operetta, which contains some of the best-
loved waltzes of Strauss, will be under
the musical direction of Albert Keats,
and will have a cast of 100 and a full
orchestra.
☆ ☆ ☆
A fashion that seems to be gaining
ground, if only by the inch, is the wig.
In the U.S. and Europe wigs for evening
have been reported for some time, and
the latest is that they are to be worn
in many colors, with swimsuits. As
Australian women seem impatient of
wearing even hats, it is doubtful whether
the vogue will catch-on here, and a word
of warning comes from a member of
the older generation who, when her
hair was going grey, used to wear a
“transformation.” The result was, she
reports, that her own hair began to fall
out, and if she hadn’t given it up she
would have become bald!


Inspector Bony, disguised as a station-
hand, comes across the chief suspect,
a young delinquent from Perth, with a
knife raised over a beeyootiful farmer’s
daughter near an aboriginal ceremonial-
ground. Bony takes a job as rouse-
about at the pub, where he straightens-
out the violin-playing Bung, who has
been on a bender, and seeks the wearer
of the sandshoes whose prints lead to
all the victims; and there is a powerful
conclusion for a full stage of abos.
and whites isolating the murderer in a
mulga-forest, to be scared into
surrender by horrible silence.
In this book the interest of the detec-
tion catches-up a little on that of the
characterisation and scenery, which
mostly runs away from Upfield’s plots,
and maybe this is all to the good: the
ending of “Death of a Lake” was some-
what as though they’d called-in
Ludwig von Beethoven to write a
finale for “Oklahoma” or “My Fair
Lady”; one would not have been
surprised to see Patrick White or
Randolph Stow doing picket-duty in
front of a bookshop where it was being
sold, with placards reading “Unfair to
Geniuses!”
Smugglers
English literature owes respect to
H.M. Customs: Chaucer and Burns
were Customs men, though according
to Neville Williams, in Contraband
Cargoes, Seven Centuries of Smuggling
(Longmans), they weren’t very good
ones. Of Chaucer, he says that “a
more conscientious man might have
made a great many more seizures”;
he regrets that Chaucer didn’t include
“A Smuggler’s Tale” in his “Canter-
bury Tales”:—
The only crumb he gives us is the
line about the Dartmouth skipper:
“Few were the rules his tender
conscience kept.” It is at any rate a
fair generalisation from the count-
less ships’ captains he met in the
flesh in the Port of London, who
were always trying to outwit him.
This, both as to Customers and
smugglers, pretty well sums-up British
Customs until comparatively recent
times; in fact, if Chaucer was merely
lax, and didn’t take bribes, he was one
of the few shining lights among English
Customers during the next 400 years.
By the time of Elizabeth I, William
Cecil began an inquiry, sealing the
door of Surveyor Coleshill’s office;
whereupon Coleshill chose his “young
and slender-hipped” servant Homeby
to climb up and worm through the
window, bringing back the books of
record, which Coleshill burnt as soon
as Horneby stepped off the ladder.
Then there was a further inquiry, by
one Dawbeney, which was hushed-up
“because the Government dared not
risk a showdown with the City of
London”; and Bird, the collector of
cloth custom, was sacked and imme-
diately elected Master of the Mercers’
Company by the city merchants with
whom he had been hand-in-glove.
The Government decided that it
LITTLE BLACK SCHOONER
Half through the night, half through a
war,
When I was roused from bed,
The little black boat lay on the floor
And my father said:
“Here’s a man ye’ve never seen,
And what’s he come about ?
Your uncle’s come from Belfast here
And sailed my schooner out.
“We twa hae paid let i’ the burn
Frae early sun til’ dine,
But seas between us braid hae roared
Sin’ auld lang syne.”
i ■
(My father’s burns were Belfast docks,
And when they cam’ tae min’
His accent as the seas grew braid
For auld lang syne.)
All night beside a greying fire
The greying men talked on,
And in the morning when I woke
I found my uncle gone.
In Sydney he rejoined his ship
And sailed for ports unknown,
And somewhere off the Spanish coast
A U-boat put her down.
The submarine came cruising up:
“I’ve got your captain here,”
The German said to the men in the boats,
“And l want your engineer.”
My uncle shed his braided coat
And under the seat it lay
Till the U-boat captain gave it up
And the U-boat went away.
My uncle sailed and the men in the
boats
To the port of Vigo, Spain,
And back they went for another ship
And put to sea again.
My father meanwhile took his boat
To his bench in our backyard room
And made a new ’sprit and foretopmast,
Two gaffs and a mains’l boom.
A nd then he said to his housekeeper
“If l cut the cloth for you
Can ye sew me a guid flat suit o’ sails
And see the hems run true ?”
“Oh, I can sew you a suit of sails,
But why not roll the hem ?
You should see my rolled-edge handker-
chiefs,
I’m much admired for them.”
\
“I’ll nane o’ your rolled-edge handker-
chiefs.
But flattened doon the fold.”
“Then I will give you -your flattened
hems,
But they’d look much prettier rolled."
My father went back to his little schooner
To get her rigged and stayed;
He marvelled at the little wee blocks
His schoolboy hands had made,
And then I saw him pause to stroke
Her delicate counter-line
And stare through the window over his
bench
At auld long syne.
I had the little black boat with me
At Christmas of the year
When we took a place for the holidays
At Belmont by the pier.
Some boys in one of the houses there
Also had a boat,
Spoon-bellied and Bermuda-rigged,
The newest thing afloat.
Our schooners were of even length :
“Well, how about a race ?”
I’d no desire to race my ship,
Accepting with bad grace.
I didn’t know how to set the sails,
And my boat fell behind;
Theirs danced off on a good straight
course,
But mine turned into the wind.
So out I rowed and brought her in,
And when I came ashore
There was my father, home from town,
Down by the boathouse door.
And like a fool I told him all:
“What! Lost a race!” said he;
“It’s the only time she’s ever been beat —
Why didn’t ye wait for me ?
“Are the boys there still?’’ He strode
the wharf
Bearded like Francis Drake
Seeking the Spaniard out to sea
Across the wind-whipped lake;
But l had seen their schooner sail
Often enough that day ;
She was far too fast for my father’s boat,
So I said they’d gone away.
He knew what I meant, and glared at me,
More fierce than ever he’d been;
If I’d never been feared of him before
I was feared of my father then ;
Angry his eyes as the streaking sand
Churned in the lashing brine,
As seas between us braid hae roared
Sin ’ auld long syne.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.


would be better to make it worth the
Customer’s while to collect the dues,
and farmed-out to Mr. Customer
Smythe the London import duties for
six years for £5OOO down and a yearly
rental of £17,500. In later life,
Smythe admitted that as a Govern-
ment servant, before he became a
contractor, he made £6OOO a year (i.e.,
in bribes); but although his rentals
increased at renewal to £30,000 a year
from 1584 to 1588, he so drove and
reorganised his department that in 18
years of farming he cleared £50,000: —
The Crown had in effect hired a
champion to fight its battles; and
thus shielded was relieved of the
unpleasantness of having to enter
the lists against its most powerful
subjects.
Nevertheless smuggling continued,
both in and out of England; and
it is interesting to note that many
of the guns in the Spanish Armada
were made of metal smuggled out of
England. When James I and Charles
I began levying duties for their own
purposes, merchants of the Parliamen-
tary persuasion began to consider it a
part of their patriotic duty to evade
duties; and thus smuggling increased
during the 17th and 18th centuries
until by far the greater proportion
of the country’s imports were
smuggled:—
In the 10 years beginning 1723
a total of 192,515 gallons of brandy
were seized; other spirits and wines
which smugglers had been forced
to abandon amounted to 139,104
gallons. In the same period
1,061,2681 b. of seized tobacco was
condemned and 102,0411 b. of tea.
Yet officials readily admitted that
these seizures were not a tenth of
the smugglers’ total trade.
Although the East India Company
had the tea monopoly, tea at the Com-
pany’s price would have been out of
the question for any except the rich.
It was the smugglers who made Britain
a tea-drinking nation, running “in no
year less than 3,000,0001 b. ashore”:—
In the ’thirties [tea cost the Dutch]
as little as 6d. a lb., and they sold
it to English smugglers for 2s.
Once on English soil it could be dis-
posed of fnem between 4s. 6d. and
Bs. a lb., according to quality. The
average price of tea in the shops
in 1733 was 55., but since the duty
was 4s. 9d. a lb., it was clear that
few retailers were selling tea that
had been honestly come by.
So big a business did smuggling
become that efforts by thoughtful
economists to drop the duties, or lower
them to reasonable proportions (tea
duties went as high as 119 per cent.)
loudly resented by “the profes-
sion”; the smugglers protesting that a
drop in duties would run them out of
business —as indeed Free Trade, in the
early 1800’s, did end big-time
smuggling.
Until the duties were dropped
smugglers operated like private
armies, gangs of around 80 men
staging battles with Revenue - men,
whom the regular Army soldieiy were
always reluctant to succor, if only
because of quarrels over the disposal
of prize-money. The Hawkshurst
Gang in 1747 marched upon the
Customs House at Poole, broke down
the doors with hatchets, and retrieved
a seized cargo of tea; the Isle of Man,
outside British jurisdiction, had hardly
anything else to live on but smuggling,
and in 1750 seized and imprisoned
the crew of a British Revenue cutter,
and browbeat them in a Manx court;
while in the Channel Islands it was
reported:—
The smaller islands of Alderney
and Sark, like Guernsey, “derive all
their support and maintenance from
the illicit trade.” All the 250 families
living in Alderney—with the excep-
tion of the Governor’s —made kegs
for spirits; the Governor himself
played a more dignified role in the
trade. He demanded compensation
“in case smuggling should be
abolished.” The Lord of Sark, too,
cited the case of the Duke of
Atholl’s surrender of his fiscal rights
in the Isle of Man as a precedent
for demanding a healthy lump sum,
should he be forced to resign his
privileges.
The nearest our own days get to
those stirring times as the book goes
on is the running of whisky to the U.S.
in time of prohibition; and then we
are in the more familiar and peaceful
scenes of dope-, gold-, watch- and
diamond-smuggling—small stuff; small
stuff.
The book is full of good stories of
the smuggling life when smugglers’
transport was as well organised
throughout England as a bus-
company, of stirring battles between
smugglers and Revenue-officers by land
and sea; there are 10 plates, from a
portrait of Mr. Customer Smythe,
looking like a Disney dwarf, to con-
temporary hiding-places for smuggled
goods in the soles and heels of shoes;
and there are a bibliography and an
index.
Reviewed Briefly
Beyond My Worth: Lillian Roth
(Arthur Barker). A second instalment
of autobiography by the author of “I’ll
Cry Tomorrow”—which was the story
of how she conquered alcoholism. This
one is how she copes with her continu-
ing problems of depression and irrita-
bility, how she meets people who want
her help, and how she stays on top in
the show-business. According to one
of her critics, “Miss Roth can still belt
’em; but even if she couldn’t live it up
on the chateroos she’d knock ’em dead
on the delivery, special handling,
registered and personal. This is a La
Roth ’57 from whom many a latterday
thrush-in-a-rush can take lessons.”
* * * *
I’ll Never be Young Again: Daphne
du Maurier (Heinemann). One of the
author’s earliest novels, first printed
nearly 30 years ago, revealing more of
youth’s gaucherie than its brilliance
and strength. Considering how much
Daphne du Maurier has “come on”
over the years there is some comfort
in the thought that youth comes not
again.
» * * *
Red Curtain Up: Beryl Grey (Seeker
and Warburg). The first Western and
only British ballerina to have danced
at the Bolshoi Theatre, Beryl Grey
toured Russia for a month late in 1957,
dancing at Kiev, Tiflis and Leningrad
as well as Moscow. This is her account
of the tour, including the surprising
statement that when she first met the
corps-de-ballet at the Bolshoi “one
of the swans came forward and made a
speech of welcome in perfect English.”
An easy, informal book, free from
propaganda. Travel-descriptions are
very slight, but the account of Soviet
dancers, their technique and the
favored treatment they receive will be
of much interest to balletomanes.
Sammy Anderson — Commercial
Traveller: H. D. Williamson (Angus
and Robertson). It is a pleasure to
meet Sammy Anderson, commercial
traveller, whose territory is northern
N.S.W. and whose friends, relations
and acquaintances represent a section
of Australian society hitherto much
neglected by our novelists. William-
son, who seems to know everything
about Sammy and his job, tells his
story with such sympathy and humor,
such vitality of style and such wealth
of episode and character that the
attraction of the book is irresistible.
The Australian dialogue is reproduced
with unaffected authenticity. (“Don’t
call me ‘sir’,” says Sammy to his would-
be son-in-law, “people think you’re
slinging-off”) and the atmosphere of
country towns, whether rising out of the
blazing heat of Moree or the shattering
cold of New England, is unmistakably
true. The book is straggling in form
and sometimes scrappy in episode, but
this is offset by the precision of know-
ledge behind it and the lively, though
gentle, comedy which pervades it.


When all is said and done . . .
YOU
CO
BEST
WITH
m
H 3
OUVQHViS
man*
r
adns
ml
da
;
» /
<£ (
ICP
-<y
<v^woooo?c«?c»x»yy^
r, i
x
/
MW'
THE WORLD'S BEST
FUEL IMPROVER
Make sure you get the
improved power and
performance which only
Benzol gives. Benzol
is available only in BP
Super and C.O.R petrols,
at BP/C.O.R service
stations everywhere.
BP SUPER & C.O.R THE ONLY PETROLS CONTAINING BENZOL
AT ALL BPJC.O.R SERVICE STATIONS
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
formerly The Commonwealth
Oil Refineries Limited
%/cm
