

The Bulletin
"Let Sleeping Cats Lie”—P a 9 e 34
Wednesday, July 8, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"I do not pretend to be as popular as Dr, Billy Graham..."


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tee only if successful.
The Red Page
STATION STORIES
Though occasionally he has
expanded into such narratives as
“The Golden Cow” and “The Miracle
of Mullion Hill,” David Campbell’s
art in poetry is essentially that of the
lyric, or the lyrical image. It is a
condensation, a crystallisation of
experience, getting it down to the fine
and final point of illumination, from
which it may expand in the reader’s
mind as far as you like. And that,
too, is the art of his short-stories in
Evening Under Lamplight (Angus and
Robertson). Broader and more
humorous, because the short-story
makes it easier to cope with a wider
range of experience, .they are lyrics in
prose.
That does not mean, thank heaven,
that they are prose-poetiy, fine writing
for fine writing’s sake, full of purple
patches of description. There are
indeed, amongst the general excellence
of the prose, patches of fine writing,
occasionally a bit too close-wrought
and mannered as in the opening page
of “Come On, Billy,” more often as
exquisitely exact in observation (the
green footprints in the dew in “The
Fire-engine”!) as they are beautiful
in cadence and color; but on the whole
in a book that so brilliantly evokes
the sheep-country of the Monaro, the
creeks, the dams, the horses, “the wild
hills of kangaroos and eagles’ nests,”
it is remarkable how few prolonged
passages of description there are. It
is one facet of the art of the lyrist that
a brief paragraph, a sentence or two,
a single phrase like the one about the
eagles’ nests is enough to suggest the
whole picture of the countryside.
But it is in the total effect of the
stories—the selection of incidents; the
humor and poignance of character;
the magical infusion of “atmosphere”;
not merely in the writing and the
descriptions—that the lyrical approach
is displayed. Once again it is an art
of suggestion and crystallisation. The
writer takes a handful of little episodes
from childhood, with an alert and
amused eye on the surrounding adults
—how they squashed blowflies in the
colonel’s account-books; how the fire-
engine came to pump-out the dam;
how they pushed Guy Grant into the
creek because he was skiting about his
collection of birds’ eggs when he didn’t
even have “a nostrich egg”; how Billy
shot a turkey with his bow-and-arrow
and they cooked it horribly by moon-
light; how they hid treasure in a hollow
tree; how the overseer seemed to have
a soft eye on their mother until the
governess got him; how the jackeroo
used to give them the most valuable
shillings so that they would go away
and leave him alone with the house-
maid by the creek—and out of these
mostly minute incidents he evokes in
the reader’s mind a complete picture
of the family and their wild, charming,
graceful way of life.
Since this sort of evocation is the
aim, the actual weight of each story in
itself—the magnitude of the events, the
sustaining and development of the
narrative—is not so important as in
other forms of the short-story. Some-
times Campbell’s stories are very
slight, a sketch that catches and ciystal-
lises one tiny aspect of a child’s
character like a snowflake—a boy’s
fear of the dark when he has to round-
up the horses; a girl’s tumultuous dis-
may when the firemen find an old pair
of her pants in the dam. Sometimes,
as in the comedy of Elsie and the
jackeroo, when the ghost who walks
outside the window turns out to be
none other than Mr. Blake (who is
good for two-shillings that time), they
are elaborately rounded and sustained.
But the real point in each case is not
so much how the story develops but
how clearly it evokes some aspect of
the kind of life and the view of life
David Campbell is trying to depict;
and. since the stories are arranged more-
or-less in sequence to have something
of the effect of a novel, how much
does each aspect add to the total
picture he is constructing. So if it is
important in the “novel” that Mr.
Blake should climb into Elsie’s bed-
room, as it is certainly amusing as a
story, it is more important that that
particular story should ciystallise the
image of the children bathing naked in
the creek while the lovers await their
leisure. It is at once a comedy about
stationhands and a prose-lyric about
pagan happiness.
It seems to me -that David Campbell
has wholly succeeded in this twofold
aim of writing a kind of novel —the
essentials of a novel—about these
station-people and at the same time
crystallising their lives into a set of
lyrics of the Monaro, shadowy in mist
or clear in sunlight. It is a measure
of his success that the book reminds
me of two strangely contrasting
writers: Katherine Mansfield in her
New Zealand stories (which are the
best things she wrote) and Norman
Lindsay in “Saturdee.” More humorous
and robust than the one, more poetic
than the other, he has many of the
best qualities of both.
D.S.
ANNUNCIATIONS
All my past years were waiting years
For time to fashion out of flesh
And blood and one bright drop of fire
The promised and the prophesied.
The beating wings were stilled, the word
Of advent lay upon my mouth.
Lulled by the drumming of my blood,
The distant thunder of my heart,
You slept upon the moving tide
Of darkness, sealed in mortal flesh.
Once more immortal wings were stilled,
I heard the word that bade you come.
The farthest galaxies recede
Beyond the reach of human sight
As starry rivers to that sea
Unbounded, shoreless, infinite,
From whence we come, to which we go.
In the Beginning was the Word.
Child, children, though I hold you here
A moment to my mortal heart
You go from me as rivers go,
As stars move to their destined place.
The beating wings are clamorous.
I hear the word. I let you go.
n.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Author Murdered
The fiery jet of Mrs. Pat Flower’s
molten prose which one noted in her
first book about murder in a Sydney
department-store is turned on Aus-
tralian writers and artists in her second,
Goodbye, Sweet William (Ure Smith
Pty., Ltd.), although they are all a
pretty second-rate, second-hand lot.
The best of the bad bunch is the
victim, William.
This wretched creature had charm.
He made love to all the women; to
the beautiful artist who married the
rich dilletante-poet only for his beau-
tiful old ancestral mansion; to the
radio-actress; he even tried it on
Joanna, whose husband he had insinu-
ated was a pansy—he was always
saying horrid things:—
Everyone loved William. They
were scared not to ; frightened of
his tongue, frightened of the cruelly
alert mind that sensed the weak
spot in a man’s armor. Or a
woman’s. Dear William. Sweet
William . . .
Moreover, William had double-
crossed . his Australian publisher,
leaving him for an English publisher
just as he was about to be a success—
and that was his most criminal attri-
bute. His shallow, discursive books
sold in thousands; and maybe the
wickedest moment in Mrs. Flower’s
seldom-innocent little volume is the
part where William announces that he
(Continued on page 55)


CONTRACTORS and TRADESMEN:
I*?**.*
IS
Close the gate on
your carrying
problems
with
• • •
SMART, RUGGED, ROOMY, DYNAMIC
A
m
4
1 1 Stfl
>
mm watta*
:W
INTERNATIONAL PICK-UPS
These husky, energetic Jack-of-all-trades International Pick-ups are ready for the call to work—
from builders, plumbers, carpenters and electricians—in fact any operator who is restricted by
the limitations of car-type utilities.
Choose from the three models: International AA-110 with 15 cwt. capacity, the International
AA-120 with a payload of over one ton and the International A A-120 ‘4 x 4\ This four-
wheel-drive model rolls your loads over rough away-from-highway country that would bog
down any ordinary vehicle. You can seat three large adults in comfort in the new International
cabs. There’s plenty of room on the tray floor, too. You can lay an 8 ft. x 4 ft. building
sheet flat, with the truck’s tail-gate up.
The International Pick-up has everything the truck operator needs from the new Australian
Blue Diamond engine to the replaceable 1" bondwood planks on the tray floor. Why not
get all the details feel the Pick-up’s performance for yourself. Ask your international
Harvester Dealer or your nearest I.H. office about a test-drive today.
INTERNATIONAL
pick-up TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT-318/3S


The Bulletin
Wednesday , July 8, 1959
Vol 80—No. 4143
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
COMMUNISM IN INDIA
nrHE State of Kerala in India is a
-*■ narrow strip on the western side of
the tip of the sub-continent. It is the
smallest of the Indian States, with an
area of just under 15,000 square-miles,
a little more than half that of Tasmania,
and a population of about 14 million.
It includes territory which has
bulked large in British Indian history
—one of the great trouble-spots of the
years round the beginning of the
nineteenth-century.
The little States and kingdoms of
Kerala have always seethed along the
coastline of missionary India, and the
past month has shown them still
original in turpitude and dissension,
and still boiling like a very hot pot.
Kerala was a natural breeding-
ground for Communism. Unhappy
peoples are apt to fall all too easily the
victims to that insidious creed; where-
fore at its 1957 elections Kerala became
the first Communist State within the
British Commonwealth. It has had
the somewhat doubtful distinction
of giving the first demonstration in
history of how Communism works-out
in a community which does not carry
on its business behind locked borders
and which is subject to all the natural
influences of a free press, free religion
and freedom of movement in and out
of government. The Communists in
power have had the additional dis-
advantage that they have been part of
a federation which, in turn, is part of
the British Commonwealth and the
free world.
All these considerations have robbed
them of the natural weapons of
Communism —the shot in the back of
the neck, the power of exile and
immolation, the power to roll over
opposition with tanks and to create
cells of authority which cow the
majority and infiltrate and brainwash
those around them.
The Communists came into power
with the one advantage that they were
opposed to half-a-dozen diverse
elements, and that they had behind
them a mass of poor, discontented,
anchorless people living on terribly low
standards —Nairs, Moslems, Roman
Catholic and other Christian converts,
mixed races, some Malayalam Dravi-
dians, none of them very fond of the
others.
TT has taken two years to show how
-*• little they have been able to use this
advantage, and the reason for it, which
is that a century and a half of British
rule has given all the dissentients a
common denominator of rights.
Kerala is so tired of Communism
after a two-year experience of it that
its parties cannot even wait for the
elections to get rid of the Government.
Or perhaps they have an inkling that
wherever Communists rule, electoral
corruption becomes an essential feature
of election-polls as has been demon-
strated again and again among Aus-
tralian unions.
Thus the world has the incongruous
spectacle of such diverse elements as
the fierce and deeply religious Hindu
Nairs. the numerous Roman Catholics,
the Moslem League, the Kerala
Socialists, the Revolutionary Socialists
and some splinter bodies, plus the
supine Congress party, combined in
an Opposition front to rid themselves
of a curse which has proved itself a
horrible negation of everything that
the Indian Constitution and the Indian
outlook on democracy stands for.
This front has laid 37 charges of
misrule against the Government, all
of which converge to form a joint
accusation of suppressions of liberty,
abrogation of the law and a concerted
plan by the Government to brainwash
the population systematically and force
it into Communism. The matter that
triggered-off the movement against the
Government, following its establish-
ment of one-party Administration reek-
ing of corruption and force throughout
the civil service, was its passage of an
Act to take over the appointments of
teachers to the Hindu and Roman
Catholic schools, which provide a very
large share of the educational facilities
of the State.
The shape of the united demonstra-
tion against the shabby Administration,
Moscow-directed and marked by the
same bleak humorlessness that marks
that of East Berlin, was non-violent
resistance and withdrawal of children
from school, picketing and displays of
silent contempt of Government
authority.
ALL this has put the Indian Congress
Party and Nehru in a shocking
position. Nehru, as always, has been
afraid of what Moscow might do if the
differences developed to the point of a
civil war which would cause the Indian
Federal Government to take a hand;
also what the effect might be on
Western, and particularly United States,
opinion if he felt himself bound to
bolster-up the Government by force.
He visited Kerala and begged the
Opposition to wait for the election and
oust the Government by constitutional
means. He influenced the Congress
party to withdraw from the Opposi-
tion bloc; but since it is the only party
which has a chance of securing a
majority large enough to govern the
Nairs and Catholics, and Moslems
would vote against it if it showed any
disposition to be even neutral, it was
sucked back again into the vortex of
resistance.
The Communists, under Nehru’s
advice, have tried to apply the
standard Communist tactic of “ebb and
flow” by pretending a tendency to
moderation and surrender. The chief
Minister, Comrade Namboodiripad,
after Nehru’s three-day visit, expressed
a wish to act on his advice and “do
something to assuage the feelings of
distrust and dissatisfaction which he
felt are prevailing here” by suspending
the Government’s powers under the
Education Act and having talks with
its opponents to find a solution of the
education disagreements. He refused
to accept Nehru’s third proposal for
a judicial inquiry into the firing by
police into peaceful crowds.
TOOTHING, however, has deceived
the demonstrators. Steel-helmeted
police, machine-guns, proclamations
against assemblies and the arrest of
20,000 people in 18 days, have been
countered with open torchlight pro-
cessions and some mild rioting, the
keeping of children from schools, the
picketing of Government offices, the
flat refusal to use Government buses.
The Opposition bloc will see only
one solution —an election properly and
constitutionally carried out in such a
way that the voting cannot be faked
and that every elector shall be free to
go to secret ballot without hindrance,
intimidation or reprisals.
This is the weapon which Com-
munism, from Moscow to Africa, most
fears, because inevitable death for it
lurks in the ballot-box wherever free
people have felt its clutch on their
throats.
Communism is born of disruption
and hysteria. It can live only by
possessing the power of overwhelming
violence and suppression.
Whatever the outcome in Kerala may
be, the situation is a wonderfully bad
advertisement for Communism in
South-east Asia, though the riposte of
Moscow for its failure is to be dreaded.
Each Communist failure in the cold
war is calculated to bring nearer the
attempt of Russia and China to Com-
munise the world by the last recourse
of force of arms.


V
wail
U
= 1 — 13)
iS I TT, [3—El-EI FI C
ei f~i ei a
El El E
El E
TV
@
©
RADIO
MONOPOLY NEWS AND
ENTERTAINMENT, LTD.
THE THREE ALLASAME MONKEYS
Read the same —See the same—Hear the same.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A World Centre-point
The arrival of the first Boeing 707 from
Seattle to take-up the trans-Pacific service
marks still another of the swiftly passing
eras of aerial progress in Australia.
Change comes so quickly in the air
that it is hard to keep track of the steps
in the advance. Less than a couple of
decades ago it took anything from 16 to
19 days for an ordinary passenger-ship
to get from Sydney to San Francisco or
vice versa, and to both Australians and
Americans the mid-Pacific region was a
strange world, . known chiefly through
the courtesy of novel-writers wearing
colored glasses.
The new 707 s will carry a passenger
to San Francisco in under 17 hours’
actual flying-time—in batches of 80 or
so. The Pacific has become almost a
commuter’s route. By way of example
of the ease and speed with which trans-
port is now possible, Sir Hudson Fysh,
chairman of Qantas and doyen among
the heads of the world’s commercial
airlines, was entertained at dinner on
the night of June 23 in Sydney, and on
the night of July 3, having been back
in Sydney a full 24 hours, was himself
entertaining the guests he had brought
back in the Boeing from Seattle, whither
he had gone in the interval to see the
service inaugurated by Australian
Ambassador Howard Beale.
Some Australians will regret that the
aircraft which is to speed-up the Pacific
passage is not a British machine. But
the employment of U.K. aircraft was
made complicated largely by the fact that
American techniques, and consequently
tools and training, came perforce into
vogue here during and directly after the
war, and it would be economically very
difficult to make a change. Furthermore,
even if it were possible to change over
with reasonable economical and techni-
cal convenience, the use of U.S. aircraft
is probably inevitable as part of the
price of the permission for Qantas to
fly across the U.S.A. and provide its
round-the-world services.
It seems undoubted that with a 36-
hour flying-time service to London via
America the route will become more
and more popular ; also that as soon as
the South Pacific route to the South
American cities is opened that route will
draw more trade and open-up a much-
needed commercial connection between
this country and South America, with
round-America connections.
The route via South-east Asia offers
progressively less attraction and more
and more dangers as the great airports
pass out of British hands and into those
of weak and semi-hostile Governments
increasingly inclined to bind transport up
in a tangle of red-tape. Thus the cross-
Pacific services grow more important year
by year as the balance of population in
the United States and Canada shifts
towards the Pacific.
Western America has become a near-
neighbor, and the Atlantic parts of the
northern section of the continent are not
more than five or six hours’ flying further
on.
This should become increasingly
important. But the impact may be greater
in our relationship with Asia. The 7075,
when they are put on the northern runs,
will bring Tokyo, Hong Kong, Shanghai
and Calcutta all within the range of a
trip between breakfast and dinner.
It is evident that Australia needs to
shorten its sights in estimating its geo-
graphical and economic positions in rela-
tion to the large centres of population.
Instead of being out on a limb as in the
days of exclusively sea-traffic, it is now
a world transport centre, almost equi-
distant from Africa, industrialised Asia
and the Americas.
Many Happy Returns
[From Canberra]
Prime Minister Menzies will return
home tonight (Wednesday) after a 10-
weeks’ world tour. After almost 10
years at the Federal helm, he will come
home not to a “somewhat battered
economy,” as he referred to it in 1957,
but to an economic situation which
promises well for everyone.
Trade is improving, and an expected
trade-deficit of upwards of £2O million
has panned-out as a surplus for 1958-59
of almost £7 million.
With the final result to be announced
any day, it is also confidently expected
that the estimated Budget deficit of £ 110-
million will in fact be less than £4O
million.
In Mr. Menzies’ absence, his deputy,
John McEwen, and his right-hand man,
Harold Holt, succeeded in pleasing the
six State Premiers, every man Jack of
them, in their tax-reimbursements, not
only for the current year but for the next
five financial years, as well as giving
them a fair quota in loan-allocations
for the coming 12 months.
The announced £6,900,000 trade-
surplus is well below the £27,200,000
credit in 1957-58, but it is all the more
remarkable because of the low wool
prices early in the wool-selling season.
Because of these low prices, export-
earnings in the June-December period
of 1958-59 were extremely low and
resulted in Australia having a deficit
after six months’ trading totalling
£19,600,000.
However, with increased wool prices
in the New Year, earnings jumped in
the last six months of the financial year,
which resulted in a favorable balance for
that half-year of £26,500,000.
Imports for the year at £796,700,000,
while above the_imports-bill for 1957-58,
were still within the Government’s
import-ceiling of £BOO million, and
exports earned £803,600,000—£15,500,000
less than in the previous year, but still a
remarkable result in view of the low
wool prices from June to December.
On the general Budgetary side, the big
surprise has been the unprecedented
success of loans on the local market,
which have overcome the necessity of the
Government having to find a very large
sum of money to back the States’ works
programmes.
Because of this, and because of higher-
than-anticipated tax-receipts, it is
expected the deficit will be no more than
£4O million.
Motorists on the Spot
Victorian Acting Premier Rylah, who
is increasingly amenable to official
pressure, has been flying a kite to test
public reaction to the introduction of
out-of-court fines for minor traffic
breaches, to save “administrative costs,
police time and public inconvenience.”
The officials, chiefly the Traffic Com-
mission, which has been impressed by
a somewhat similar procedure in South
Australia and Brisbane, where it is un-
popular, propose that motorists should
be given on-the-spot tickets setting-out
the type of offence and the fine, which
must be paid within 14 days ; if they
do not do so, they may elect to defend
the case in court.
The officials’ concern about “saving
the public inconvenience” is pure poppy-
cock, thrown-in to sweeten the mixture.
At present the motorist loses no time
nor is inconvenienced by the operative
system unless he chooses to'do so. He
may go to court to defend the type of
offences the proposed system is designed
to cover or he may leave them
undefended.
The Victorian police individually lose
little time in court, since minor traffic
cases are usually taken first and the
court-list so arranged that all of a traffic
constable’s cases are taken one after
another ; he speaks his pieces, usually
referring by permission to notes taken
at the time, and in a very few minutes
is .out of the box and the court.
Collectively the traffic constable’s hours
in court are high, but these are part of
his duty, and at a time, nearly always
between 10 and 11 a.m., when his
presence on the road is less important;
and, of course, administrative costs are
more than met by fines.
It is likely that fines, plus expenses,
would be higher in cases that were con-
tested. But it is extremely doubtful
whether more power should be placed in
the hands of more petty officials.
Uneconomic Capital-works
With a nice sense of timing, the diligent
researchers and alert economists of the
Institute of Public Affairs Victoria have
produced an enlightening table showing
the dominant part taxation is now play-
ing in Government expenditure. The
Bulletin about the same time last year
showed that over nine years £897-million
of public capital-expenditure had been
paid-for out of revenue, and £547-
million of Budget surpluses had been
used largely to finance State public
works.
Because voluntary savings and Gov-
ernment loan-raisings have been inade-
quate, the great part of Government


investment in public works in recent years
has been financed out of taxation.
In 1938-39, £37 million was used for
public works from taxes and revenue.
This was 4 p.c. of the gross national
product and 18 p.c. of the total invest-
ment funds. In 1948-49 the respective
figures were £135 million, 6 p.c. and 26
p.c.; and in 1957-58, £460 million, 8 p.c.
and 30 p.c.
Australia now has one of the highest
rates of capital-expenditure in the world.
It is popularly supposed that the big
increase in the burden of taxes is due to
the great growth in the scale of social
services. This certainly has contributed,
but the greater part of the additional
burden can be traced to the high propor-
tion of the community’s resources now
devoted to capital-works.
The strong present-day bias towards
investment- as against consumption-
expenditure has its dangers ; there is a
tendency to disregard the huge cost-
burden of some capital-projects. The
costs and prospective benefits of capital-
projects need close analysis before
colossal expenditures are embarked upon,
since not all capital-expenditure is neces-
sarily good, and more care is needed in
distinguishing what is economic from
that which possibly isn’t.
Discussing the Government's secret,
creeping weapon, inflation, the I.P.A.V.
points out that it can supplement loan
subscriptions, taxes, increases in charges
for public utilities and borrowing from
the central bank by competing with other
forms of expenditure—consumption-
expenditure and private capital-expendi-
ture —for labor, materials and equipment,
forcing-up prices, so reducing the real
value of incomes and the real expendi-
ture on consumption.
The danger is that the distinction
between economic and uneconomic
investment may become severely blurred
and capital-investment regarded almost
as an end in itself.
The Threat is Serious
The statement of Kozlov, the Soviet
Union Deputy Premier, during his visit
to the United States to attend the Soviet
Union Exhibition there, seems to write
the epitaph of the Big Four Foreign
Ministers' Conference 'on Germany,
which is now in recess after a futile six
weeks of disagreement.
He followed the usual lines —soft-soap
and the assumption of deep friendship
for the United States people, who are
not sufficiently alert in reading such
utterances to realise that the Kremlin
invariably draws a distinction. It pro-
fesses friendship for peoples, but it is
the enemy of their Governments. Time
and again, for instance, the Soviet Union
has declared its love and affection for
.the Australian people ; but it was dis-
covered during the Petrov Commission
that it referred in its official secret com-
munications to the Australian nation as
“the enemy.”
Kozlov, after his opening gambit,
declared that Russia would conclude a
peace-treaty with East Germany, irres-
pective of the other parties to the sur-
render on Germany and the Allied
agreements, “with all the consequences
this entails,” if the Big Four Conference
failed to solve the problems associated
with Berlin. This means, as the matter
stands, “unless the West surrenders
absolutely.”
He declared that “If a w ; ar was un-
leashed through the Western Allies using
force to keep their hold on West Berlin,
then force will be met by force.”
Thus, he states in effect as Khrushchev
and others have stated before, that
Russia intends to suck East Germany,
including free Berlin right up to the
Elbe, behind the Iron Curtain no matter
what comes and goes.
Khrushchev said much the same
thing in stronger terms on June 19. He
made it clear that in any committee
appointed to settle the affairs of Ger-
many, East Germany must come in as
an equal with West Germany. He said
of the policy of “the German militarists,”
headed by Dr. Adenauer (who has
resisted militarisation), that “the Western
Powers did not wish to conclude a peace-
treaty,” and that one would have to be
signed by Russia with the two existing
German States.
In plain fact, Western Germany does
not admit that East Germany is a State
at all. It regards it as part of the German
Federal Republic which happens to be
living at the moment in captivity.
Khrushchev continued:
In the event of aggressive reactionary
circles in the I'etleral German Republic
hindering the conclusion of such a ’ peace-
treaty, there remains nothing else but to
conclude it with the German Democratic
Republic [i.e.. East Germany].
He continued that the East German
State would then enjoy all sovereign
rights, and “if some other States make
efforts to restore the occupation status
by force, then the U.S.S.R. will support
the G.D.R. with all the means at its
disposal and as a faithful ally of the
Warsaw Treaty it will defend the terri-
torial integrity of the G.D.R.”
The most dangerous thing in the situa-
tion is not that this purports to be a
straightout threat of war if the West does
not hand-over the miserable East Ger-
mans, plus the alarmed Berliners, to the
tender mercies of Moscow, but that
spokesman after spokesman of the West
has sought to lull the threatened peoples
of Europe and America into false security
by suggesting that everything that issues
from the Kremlin is bluff.
Malayan Complications
The results of the State elections in the
Malayan Federation seem to add to the
complications of government in that
unhappy peninsula.
Singapore, of course, is outside the
Federation, a tiny State on its own
dominated by an overwhelming Chinese
majority and holding about a quarter of
the whole population in the former
British colony. It has nothing to live on
but trade and some curiously imperman-
ent secondary industries. It must import
nearly all its food and raw materials.
Yet it is fiercely independent, and it has
been handed over to a Left-wing party
which violently abuses “colonialism,” is
very near to Communism, though how
near is not fully established, and yet is
a remarkable example of a Malayan area
“colonialised” by the Chinese. The
Malays are almost buried under the mass
of Chinese.
The 11 States of the Federation across
the Strait of Johore are another kettle
of fish. The further away from Singa-
pore, the more Malay the population
becomes, the more opposed to Leftism,
the less touched by Red indoctrination
and the more fiercely behind the Islamic
religious revival which has swept the
Orient from the Arab countries of the
Middle East.
In the State elections in this area
the Malay-Chinese-Indian Alliance is
opposed to the Left and to racial domina-
tion. It is behind the existing provisional
regime and the idea of an independent
State integrated in the British Common-
wealth and looking to march with the
West and its civilisation.
Of the 11 State elections, the Alliance
won nine, but in two, Trangganu and
Kelantan, the new Pan-Malayan Islamic
party had decisive victories. In Kelantan,
which holds about half-a-miilion people,
nine-tenths Malays, the win was by 28
seats to 2, while every one of 20 Left-
wing candidates lost his deposit.
The Federation next month passes out
of its chrysalis stage. Its Legislative
Council, which has had the task of pre-
paring for Constitutional Government,
will then expire.
The Federation has adult franchise. It
goes to the polls in August to choose
a wholly elected House of Representa-
tives. There will be a Senate partly
appointed by the Head of the State of
the Federation and partly elected by the
State Assemblies.
It seems certain that the Alliance party
will have an overwhelming majority in
the Reps., and that the Pan-Islamic party
might form the Opposition.
The Senate does not promise to be
a remarkably successful House.
However, Malaya is off to a good start,
and the confident promises of Peking that
its nationalism would lead it to “vomit-
out its British associations so soon as it
can swallow the emetic of freedom” seem
hardly likely to be realised.
Singapore prosperity, too, depends very
much on the Malayan Peninsula, and if
a Chinese knows nothing else he can
invariably see where the butter for his
bread comes from.
ON OTHER PAGES—
Page
Play On! . . . . . . 32
Share Prices and 1958-59 Profits 20
Review of C.S.R. . . . . 27
“Let Sleeping Cats Lie” . . 34
The Stately Homes Business . . 36
How Does Heredity Work? . . 50


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
No offence, prithee, “Sir Jay” (B.
17/6/’59), but the banks and whole-
sale houses ever expect, on the eve of the
financial year, a plethora of cheques
absentmindedly unsigned.—“Quartercut.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.G.”: It was bedtime in the night-
shelter. A man who was better shod
most of us undressed his feet, lifted one
end of his bed, and lowered a post into
each shoe. “What’re you doing that for,
mate?” “These beds are too level,” he
replied. “1 prefer to sleep with my head
higher than my feet.”
♦t*
“Stromlo”: In Sydney high-schools
(and perhaps elsewhere) kids who want
to leave school as soon as possible are
put into a “general activities” class,
officially known as “G.A.” Here, with a
shortage of teachers, they frequently
play-up, absent themselves and do little
or no work. At a seminar in a big Sydney
suburb the significance of the letters
“G.A” on a passing-out certificate was
explained—to the consternation of the
executive of a big business. “Gosh,” he
said, “for the last couple of years, when
kids came in for jobs, I’ve been
deliberately picking out those with ‘G.A.’
I thought? it meant good average or some-
thing better.”
♦X«
“Meerum”: Extract from letter: “I
have reached the fifties, but I still have
no confidence —I must get into the sixties
to acquire that.” A middle-ager looking
forward to the sheltered harbor of
elderliness? No —a teenager weathering
a rough passage in her weak subject while
bound for the Leaving!
* »t« ♦>
“Fairf”: Rummaging amongst a
drawerful of souvenirs and junk, my
cobber came upon his old R.A.A.F.
pennant and, with well-concealed pride,
“Too many tea-parties !”
presented it to his sons. Rather surprised
that the red-white-and-blue bulls-eye
didn’t seem to mean anything to them,
he explained that it was the symbol
which all our planes had carried. The
seven-year-old boy, looking slightly
shocked, promptly hit him with: “Were
you a baddie, Daddy?” Daddie asked
why. “Well,” the kid told him seriously,
“all the goodies have stars on their
’planes.” No doubt about TV —it's
educational.
“Sunray”: She unwrapped a carved
wooden box from a brown-paper bag
and was immediately surrounded by the
members of the club. Instead of jewels
there were only some pieces of brown,
hard substance with holes bored through
it at regular intervals. It was her father’s.
He’d been dead three years, and was
well into his 80’s when he died. This
was the first ship’s biscuit issued to him
in the Royal Navy, and he’d kept it as
a souvenir. Apart from a bit of flaking
on the surface, it still looked in good
condition. The holes, it was explained,
were where the weevils fell out when
the biscuit was tapped on the edge of
the table.
❖ ❖
“Smithy”: It won’t be long now before
Taswegian kids are yelling their heads
off at the movies their parents saw not
so long after “The Jazz Singer,” but
what is interesting the adults in the
Speck more than the progress of the
tele-tosser on Mt. Wellington is who will
be the first poor coot who drives up
for a look at the building and tower
and on the way down takes-off into space
—the Pinnacle Road is being sealed, and
when that smooth bitumen on those tight
bends gets a glassy coat of ice . . .!
A «.♦« A
V W V
“Jeyles”: More meretricious embroidery
than help on this pastrami theme (B.
24/6/’59) is my witness that after a Jack
Dempsey fight on Saturday, April 4,
1931, at Portland (Ore.), my host, Leo
Carillo, at a midnight-supper cafe, rose
to his feet. Brilliantly and derogatively
he addressed the head-waiter concerning
the pastrami just served us. The five-
minute oration was torrential, fluent and
mostly unprintable, and its conclusion
roused not only the cafe audience but
the whole cafe staff to tumultuous
applause:
“I, Carillo, who have, in the valley of
Aosta, feasted upon pastrami smoked over
mulberry-roots, the flesh of sleek oxen
nurtured on elm-leaves, apologise abjectly
to ray guests for this Chicago offal that
confronts us.”
DOGGEREL DITTY
“Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.) shire having
ordered a Toronto woman’s dogs to stop bark-
ing, a Newcastle vet. said he would not operate
if the R.S.P.C.A. considered de-barking of dogs
by removing their vocal chords cruel, which
the R.S.P.C.A. council unanimously did.”
This cutting of the vocal chords
Leaves one at a loss for words:
Exceptions maybe may be made
For spruikers of the hit-parade,
And greater benefits accrue
From working on their singers, too :
But though l might debark a log
I wouldn’t do it to a dog.
Debark, perhaps, some men of State
And certain men who commentate,
And some upon the stage, maybe,
And other people on TV,
Or wives who need, in every walk
Of life, an antidote to talk :
Debark a barque or a pirogue —-
I wouldn’t do it to a dog.
Look at the matter in this light:
Why make his bark improve his bite ?
Why keep, as ancient saws remark,
A watchdog, and debark his bark ?
To lead a dog’s life all in vain ;
Not to rejoice and not complain :
No prologue, and no epilogue—
/ wouldn’t do it to a dog!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


r T~'HE phone had been giving trouble,
A so a hand - set was installed. The
following day the technician at the ex-
change rang for a check-up. Mum lifted
the receiver, then saw her three-year-old
standing in the lounge dripping water
over the carpet; he had been playing
with the hose. “Take your pants off!”
•she called out. An astonished voice said
in her ear: “Who? Me?” —“Artie.”
♦> * *
“W.E.T.”: “Sir Jay’s” tale about the
error in the cheque of Mrs. Ann Rudd
(B. 17/6/’59) reminds me that as a
Bank of Victoria teller soon after World
War 1 1 had presented to me a cheque
payable to Dalgety and Co. for “Forty-
six sheep 2s. 6d.” Knowing the drawer,
after a few pots on sale - days, was
just as likely to sign “M. M Stg.” as
“M. M Jun.,” I paid the cheque-
At another branch we had a customer
who could neither read nor write, but
who could sign his name in a large round
hand. Should he commence too far on
the right of the cheque the signature
would be completed with the last few
letters on the back of the form. But we
never bothered the old man about that.
*> *:<•
“Miss M.”: Not since my schooldays
have 1 heard the skipping-rhymes, once
so popular. While two little girls turned
the rope, a third would skip to the
tune of: —
House to let,
A pply within.
1 run out, and
Jane runs in.
She then ran out, -and the child named
took her place without missing a turn.
Or the rope-turners chanted, while the
skipper suited actions to the words:
Butterfly, butterfly, turn around;
Butterfly, butterfly, touch the ground.
Butterfly, butterfly, show me your shoe;
Butterfly, butterfly,' that will da.
Lest it be thought that we spent our
days decorously skipping and singing of
butterflies, while our big sisters read The
Green Hat and did the blackbottom, let
me add that we knew all the more vulgar
of lan Mudie's rhymes —except the three
old ladies, whom I didn’t meet till my
Army days—and wrote in each other’s
autograph books:
/ wish I were a little egg
Away up in a tree;
I wish I were a little egg
As bad as bad can be.
I wish a little boy would come
And look at me with glee;
Then 1 would go and bust myself
And cover him with me.
Our little brothers crowed over:
Piggy on the railway, picking" up stones;
Along came an engine and broke Piggy’s bones.
“Ah,” said Piggy, “that’s not fair.”
“Ali,”. said the engine, “/ don’t care.”
and:
Jumbo, Jumbo, sitting on a matchbox,
Eating bread and cheese.
Along came a rat, and bit him on the back,
And made poor Jumbo sneeze.
Both of these seem to be forgotten, but
I still hear, shouted with immense
gusto:
Pleasant dreams,
Sweet repose,
Slam the door on the doctor’s nose.
“Arthur R.”: There was more than
a “certain unity,” “Siosal” (B. 17/6/’59),
between Dr. Boreham and C. J. Dennis.
The two were close friends, and “Den”
was as eager to read everything written
by the clergyman as Dr. Boreham was
to follow the doings of Ginger Mick and
the Sentimental Bloke. When John
Masefield visited Australia in 1934
"Quiet today, isn't it?"
Dennis arranged a meeting between the
Laureate and Boreham. The three,
altogether different types, were mutually
attracted, and one of Dr. Boreham’s most
prized possessions was a rough drawing
of a three-masted ship with a descriptive
couplet bearing Masefield’s initials.
❖ * ❖
“Doric”: She admired one of the
shrubs in my garden and I offered her
a cutting. “Thanks,” she said ; “I’ll get
it some other time.” Later 1 saw her
lean over the fence and take- a cutting.
When she saw me, she explained : “They -
grow much better if they're stolen. I’ve
proved it!”
♦♦♦ <<
“N.A.8.”: We had left Queanbeyan
on the Snowy River Express when a
young woman came through the carriages
selling cigarettes. No thanks. Another
girl arrived, vending ice-creams. No.
A third arrived bearing apples and other
fruit. No business. Finally a girl came
to take orders for sandwiches. We fell.
The run to Cooma, “port” for the Snowy,
is only 79 miies—but four girls dancing
attendance —travel’s beginning to com-
pete with the Tiv.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: Melbourne’s wool-push-
ing show of national costumes and inter-
national creations is nice to look at,
but will it sell wool? Will we house-
wives who buy the clothing for the
family rush Scandinavian and Central
European traditional styles, persuade our
men to wear wool kimonos to the office,
run-up models, with Dior results, on our
sewing-machines? I fingered some
beautiful web-fine wool at £3-odd a
yard, went off to another department
and bought a synthetic at 255.; it looks
like wool, feels like wool, and it is
guaranteed washable. When I asked a
salesman about the washability of one
wool fabric after another, he shrugged,
smiled and answered: “Well, you know
you can wash anything!” And those
knitting-yarns—after one year, a sweater
knitted in pure wool is decrepit, felted
and shrunken. Yes, that was “shrink-
proof’’ wool, carefully washed. After
four years, sweaters knitted in nylon-
wool mixture, or pure nylon, are still soft,
shapely and sizeable. Practically, house-
wives are no longer purely woolly-minded.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ricod’’: Overheard in the bus: “. . . .
And she told me how much she liked Jack.
‘He’s such a gentleman,’ she said ; ‘I
always feel so safe with him!’ Well,
you know how unattractive she is—my
dear, she'd be safe with Jack the Ripper!”
►> ♦> »♦«
“Jeyles”: Before the peeping pilots
start cluttering the air-lanes over Boston
Island, South Australia’s nudeslablish-
ment (B. 17/6/’59), let them pause.
Comic artists for long have delineated
for us the fun of both peeping in and
out of nudist colonies. But peeping on
has no future. Only last month an air-
cadet got himself all washed-up for, as
my discreet daily euphemised, “repeatedly
flying at lower than regulation height
over a Dandenongs health camp.”
*X+ ♦>
“P.F.G.S.”: News of two Americans'
swimming the salt-laden Dead Sea takes
my mind back to when the Army drove
the Turks out of Jerusalem in December,
1917. The mounted troops executed a
flanking movement, via Nebi Musa, high
above the western shores of the Dead


Sea. The flanking movement drove the
enemy out of Jericho, and across the
Jordan River, my own squadron of the
3rd N.Z. Mounted Rifles being first
into the ancient town. My troop-sergeant
and 1 decided on a trial swim in the
Dead Sea, some miles east of our posi-
tion. It was in plain view of the enemy,
and out-of-bounds. We sneaked our
mounts off the bivouac horse-lines,
reached the Dead Sea in about an hour,
stripped, and led our horses into deep
water. In the chemically - impregnated,
salty water it was quite impossible to
sink! The water stung the eyes, but we
tried wearing our dust-goggles, and that
eased things considerably. I shall never
forget the astonished look my mare,
Jean, gave me when she realised she
couldn’t get her back under. On our
return journey we were fired - on;
whether by Turks or Bedouin \ye didn’t
wait to see.
*** *x*
“Central”: With electrification of the
railway to Lithgow (N.S.W.) engine-
smoke has disappeared from Valley
Heights, because of the withdrawal of
the engines that used to stand there
“Daddy, this is Ernie. He Wants to ask you for my hand."
ready to assist trains to Katoomba.
Housewives appreciate the cleaner
atmosphere on wash-day, but to the dis-
appointment of the many tourists' who
frequent Katoomba year-in and year-out
there is no further use of the Katoonaba
turntable which was always in action
turning the engines so that they could
go back, often three together, to their
base for yet another haulage job.
*& ♦J* *J«
“Imperial 59”: The dentist had per-
suaded her to have three teeth out before
she went on holidays ; it would be a
good time to let the gums recover before
further treatment. Somewhat doubtfully,
she took him at his word ; the first week
of her holiday was spoiled by a daily
ache. At the end of the week the dentist
had a postcard in his mail: “As I am
having daily reminders of you, I thought
you might like this one from me!”
*** * ***
{£A . „ ro
: Can t agree with Kerba (B
20/5/ »), wh ° ca " in no ;"J a § me
at a vessel, could even remotely re-
semble a city. The ship on which J
travelled carried more than
passengers plus a big crew, generate
its own electricity for lighting, heating,
refrigeration and other services, carried
its own water, fuel and foodstuffs, had
a swimming-pool, bakery, butcher shop,
general shop, laundry, sports decks,
dancing - floor orchestia, post-office,
printer s shop, barber s shop, and other
amenities. If that s not a city, what is.
A
“Jesmondene”: Spouse bedded of a
filleted, toe had temporary domestic help
—a treasure, but a real Port Melbourne
irrepressible. A new and diffident young
curate was making a morning visit of
bedside sympathy, so at 10.30 Treasure,
not needing any instruction, took to the
bedroom two cuppas and scones. On
the threshold a shrill whistle heralded
her approach, which she explained
blithely: “Always give a whistle when
there’s a boy and girl in a bedroom.”
»Q uis Separabit” (South Wales): The
Rev w j Qwens is right “G. 8.” (B.
27/5/ . 59) accordjng to clothing Reg,.la-
In ’ lB5O a plain shoulderbelt, with-
out the brass breastplate, authorised the
bayonet being hung in a frog from the
waistbelt. That was the end of cross-
belts, which were before that worn across
chest in saltire, one belt supporting
t j, e cartridge-pouch and the other the
bayonet, with a breastplate of regimental
pattern linking them in the centre. What
u helped to pipeclay was the old buff-
leather equipment waistbelt, pouches
and straps, supporting ; quite a different
thing. The Royal Warwickshire may have
been different; but the rest of the regular
English line wore red tunics in drill-
order until 1914 (khaki for musketry-
order, marching-order, F.5.M.0., and
fighting-order, white-canvas for fatigue).
As regards the church-parade you
attended—surely at Shorncliffe, home of
the Light Division—infantry helmets had
brass spikes and chin-chains, only the
helmet-star was of silver-metal, with a
brass badge superimposed.
♦J- *s*
“Remu”: Confusion in the chain-
store: the girl assistant paled and held
a whispered natter with another ; a third
was summoned, and six appalled eyes
stared from beneath three furrowed
brows at the problem: 17 balls of wool
@ 3s. lid. each. So I helped: “Call it
four shillings, and then take away one-
and-fivepence.” The six eyes clouded with
suspicion: “Oh, no. We couldn’t do
that!” And they couldn’t. Arms were
raised for the floor-manager to do the
sum in long multiplication ; 1 handed
over £3 6s. 7d., and got the goods 1
SAMENESS WITH A DIFF.
‘‘Prosecuting sergeant: ‘You are person
referred to by the previous witness as “Red”?
Witness: ‘Yes.’
Prosecuting sergeant': ‘Would you say accused
was behaving irrationally when police were
called?’
Witness: ‘I don’t know about that. She was
just acting a bit screwy.’ ”
He might have said the dame
Could possibly not claim
A keen awareness
Of what was going on,
Of knowing pro from con ;
Mentioned the bareness
Of reasonable thought.
Instead of which, he sought,
Did this bird, Bluey,
The pungent, pithy word
To indicate wits blurred.
He got it—“ Screwy”!
Were someone to suggest
That she’d been dispossessed —
Pro. tern. —of reason,
That her phrenetic state
Must incapacitate
Her will to seize on
A thought, he’d have wiped such
A statement as so much
So-and-so hooey.
A blunt bloke, lacking fuss,
His bib Blue put in thus :
“She a£ted ‘screwy’!”
They’re of no use to him,
Those language-flowers that trim
Our speech, so relished
By Gent Ones who so need
The uses, as they plead,
Of phrase embellished.
The flow of gab and yap
He’d never want to tap,
For, in his view, he
Can gain better effect
With words terse and direct —
One, say, like “screwy !”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Domina”: Half-yearly exams, and
the usual crop of howlers: a second-
year girl wrote that after John Macarthur
had crossed Merinos with long-haired
Indians he then crossed the Blue Moun-
tains. A 12-year-old, asked to tell what
he found most interesting in Ancient
Egypt, declared that he didn’t find ancient
history interesting at all, and couldn’t
read it, although he didn’t mind if the
teacher read it to him.
❖ * *
“Roomy”: Melbourne “Sun” excuses
the preoccupation of playwrights with
canecutters and bookmakers in that
“ordinary middle-class lives are not very
interesting.” This poses an interesting
social problem: should canecutters and
bookmakers be classified as working-,
upper-, or extraordinary-middle-class?
❖ ❖ *
“Ercy”: Pity the poor cove in Taree
(N.S.W.)! Lying against a log waiting for
ducks to land in a creek, bitten in the
arm by a snake, he held the rifle close
to the arm and shot himself to make
the wound bleed, tied a string tourniquet,
and fainted. Found by neighbors, he was
rushed off to hospital, where at this stage
I reckon he fainted again, because the
Law, hot on the trail, snaffled him for
carrying a firearm on a Sunday. Fined
a fiddly-did! In England, if a condemned
man tried to cut his throat, they’d sew
him up nicely in hospital so he wouldn’t
cheat the hangman.
+*♦ ♦£«•
“Tallbungo”: Last week, at a Mel-
bourne school reunion, some of us old
codgers were relating our lives’ modest
achievements, when one baldhead, with
a glint in his blue eye, announced that
only in the previous week had he attained
a 40-year-old ambition. Weekending in
the city, on Sunday night he had trekked
up Collins Street to the Scots Church
of his boarding-school life, where a near-
capacity congregation had assembled to
hear an eminent visiting Scottish divine:
he was conducted down the aisle and
given a seat bang in the middle of 75
rosy-cheeked maidens the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College boarders! Possibly grand-
daughters of those dragooned and
dragonised, gemhatted and blackstock-
inged—but nevertheless desirable —
damsels, the glamor-girls of his erstwhile
youth! As he said, at long last he was
close enough to raise a girlish giggle and
exchange a friendly wink with a P.L.C.
boarder. Life in the old dog yet!
♦> *> * /
“Kune”: Gunpowder taken snuff-
wise to cure toothache (B. 13/5/’59) is
in keeping with the many drastic remedies
in a medical book written and published
only 133 years ago by a member of the
Royal College of Surgeons, London. For
headache: dip the common nightcap in
cold water, wring out, then sleep in it,
two or three nights in succession if neces-
sary. To cure earache: syringe with a
mixture of ox-gall and Peruvian balsam,
or bleeding (using leeches) behind the
ear. For fever: a dose of cobweb (10
grains) ; a dollop of hard soap for indiges-
tfon and biliousness ; asses’ milk to check
t.b. ; hot ether-fumes inhaled through
the spout of a teapot for asthma ; a beer-
and-seaweed poultice for certain body
pains; doses of boiled dandelion for
jaundice and certain liver ailments ; and,
to combat alcoholism, a jug of cold
water “dashed over the head every morn-
ing on getting out of bed . . . continue
for six or eight weeks.” As for tooth-
ache, he advised, inter alia, the mastica-
"I'm sorry, but you can t see my husband — he's in orbit."
tion of pungent aromatic plants, such as
“ginger, horse-radish or common hart-
wort.”
* * *>
“Central”: An elderly lady in a Sydney
suburb was informed that she had a
one-inch pin deeply embedded in a lung,
and that it would be risky tc remove it
because of a heart condition. For many
years my father carried a piece of needle
in a hand ; clinging to a piece of soap,
it snapped off when he rubbed the soap
in his hands. It was cremated with him.
<g«
“Bo”: Hollywood’s bullet - headed
yeggs who use a spray of hot lead to
give effect to their censure-motions on
•rival gangsters pay homage to Orpheus
by secreting sawn-off shotguns in violin-
cases. Club-fingered kids who have made
the day hideous with their catgut-
scrapings, and who have been left with
only the case when their sire, driven at
last beyond human endurance, has
jumped on the instrument of torture,
have put it to humiliating use as a
receptacle for marbles, tops, comics and
ends of string. Our suburb’s champion
hypocrite, who for years was regarded
as the chief banner-holder of t.t.-dom,
and who would invariably take a brace
of quick ginks up and down the street
before diving into the side-door of the
pub for a quickie, made an inviolable
Saturday habit of bringing home four of
the best in it for his weekend pleasure,
his shame being discovered only when
the catch flew open as he was getting
out of the bus. I have recently seen the
fiddle’s wooden overcoat put to yet
another use: it was opened-out on the
front lawn, and a gardener was snipping
his rose-prunings into suitable lengths and
dropping ’em into it, thus solving very
neatly the rose-grower’s most thorny
transport problem.
“lolanthe”: The following notice
appeared on the factory wall, much to
the delight of all concerned, and with
the wish that it could be forwarded to
Canberra:
It has been brought to the notice of the
management that employees have been
dying on duty for apparently no good
reason at all.
Furthermore, th’e same employees are
refusing to fall over after they are dead.
Where it can be proved that the employee
is being held up by a desk, counter or
typewriter, or any other support which is
the property of the company, a 90-day
period of grace will be granted.
The following procedure will henceforth
be strictly adhered to:
If, after several hours, it is noticed that
an employee has not moved or changed
position, the department-head will investi-
gate. Because of the highly sensitive nature
of our employees and attitude, the investi-
gator will be quiet in his work, so as to
prevent w'aking the employee if he is
asleep.
If some doubt as to his true condition
is felt, the extending of a pay-envelope
is a final test to be used. If the employee
does not grasp it, it may reasonably be
assumed that he is dead.
Note. —In some cases the instinct to
extend the hand for the pay-envelope is
so strongly developed that a spasmodic
“clutcher reflex action’’ may occur even
after death.
In all cases, a sworn statement by the
dead person must be filled out on a special
form provided by the Registrar of Deaths
for that purpose. Fifteen copies will be
made, three copies for the Registrar, two to
be retained by the office, and two by the
deceased. The others will b'e promptly lost
in our files.


POLITICAL POINTS
Soekarno should change his name to
Flanagan—you know, that “Off again,
On Again, Gone Again” Flanagan.
When he isn’t in Hollywood he turns up
in Peking or Moscow. And when he
isn't introducing a new type of consti-
tutional Government he is trying-out a
new dictatorship. Just now he is in the
throes of a Back to 1945 Movement, of
which the central feature is a dictator-
ship, with himself as a dictator and the
issue clouded by Eliminations against the
Australian administration of New Guinea
and new reflections by his minions on
“Irian,” which have led the Dutch to
make it legal to send conscript troops to
West New Guinea.
• •
Nothing can be more ironic than the
fact that J. J. Cahill, arch-champion of
shorter hours, equal pay for all, higher
pay and what not, has had his bluff called
by the N.S.W. Labor Council, which
took him at face-value and asked him to
increase States wages to accord with the
recent increase in the Federal wage-
levels. Turning pale, Cahill had one of
his spokesmen say that the proposal was
“unacceptable,” while he himself retired
to the security of a moderate-sized but
expensive banquet given him by hand-
picked capitalists.
• •
N.S.W. Parliament will reassemble on
August 12, Cahill announced last week.
The benches will need dusting. They’ve
only been used two days since last
December.
• •
The two new traffic-lanes on Sydney
Harbor Bridge were officially opened
on Thursday morning, but during the
peak - hour rush on Wednesday night
a collision on the bridge De Grooted the
ceremony. The accident jam-packed the
roadway wuthin minutes, and traffic-
police, "to ease the situation, diverted
traffic into the new lanes. Even so it
was over two hours before the snarl
was wiped off the face of the bridge.
• •
In a few months Snowy Mountains
power will be flowing into Victoria, as
nearly all the linking-up has been com-
pleted. The switching - station at
Dederang, in the Kiewa (Vic.) Valley, is
close' to completion ; the new transmis-
sion-line connects at the Murray River
with a corresponding 330,000-volt line
built by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-
electric Authority, and, at Dederang,
links with the Victorian Electiicity
Commission’s 220,000-volt power-grid.
Almost all of the 225 steel towers have
been erected.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: When the N.S.W. State
Council of the Liberal party was
deciding, for the fourth time, that the
annual membership - fee should be £1
instead of 2s. 6d., a medical member
not merely pointed out how many quids
even a moderate smoker spent in the
course of a year, but added cheerfully
that party - membership didn’t lead to
medicos’ consulting - rooms, whereas
cigarettes... .[The balance of the remark
was inaudible.]
• •
Back in 1648 the citizens of Neumagen,
on the Moselle, Germany, donated 1000
litres of their celebrated wine to the
diplomats negotiating to end the Thirty
Years’ War. During the Foreign Minis-
ters’ conference in Geneva last month
the town fathers of Neumagen sent a
selection of the 1953 and 1955 vintages
with the expressed hope of creating an
“auspicious atmosphere for negotiation.”
There is no great evidence that the gift
had the desired effect, but it may explain
why the Foreign Ministers agreed to
meet again.
THE DISTRESS-SIGNAL
The most ironic strike of lx year:
that of the trade-unions in the Indian
State of Kerala, who are organising a
“perpetual strike” to get rid of the Com-
munist Government, purveyors of the
millenium and agents of the “Workers*
Only Fatherland.”
• •
Britain is working on a move which
will win cheers from travellers —the
abolition of passports. It has been
officially announced that before long the
nationals of 16 European countries may
be able to come to the U.K. without pass*
ports if an agreement can be reached.
It is not so easy to abolish passports for
Britons—or Australians —because, unlike
Continentals, they do not carry identity-
cards.
• •
The word that got about that the Inter-
national Transport Unions’ conference
at Tokyo, attended by Comrade Jim
Healy of the Watersiders, would be the
signal for world-wide strikes seems to
have substance. Within a month or so
the record includes strikes at Cammell
Lairds (boilermakers), in England, which
held-up completion of the Windsor
Castle ; lightning strikes in Colombo
which have led to the military being
called out; a general strike in Bengal
which halted all transport in Calcutta ;
a strike in Spain (called off); strikes on
Italian ships held-up in Melbourne and
elsewhere. And these are only specimens.


Soviet First Deputy Premier Kozlov
has had a chat with President Eisenhower,
and Vice-President Nixon is to have a
yarn with Khrushchev. Do two half-
summit talks make one whole summit
talk?
• •
It’s an ill-strike: when the Italian
liners Australia and Flaminia were
held-up in Melbourne by the strike of
Italian seamen, the passengers were trans-
ferred to inter-State transport by rail and
air, and the Customs got 200 bottles of
liqueur-essence, 3001 b. of cheese and
about 25 watches, as well as jewellery.
But no salami. It would take more than
a corps of Customs to find an Italian’s
salami now.
• •
For thickness of hide and lack of
sense of humor the N.S.W. Labor Council
must take the bun. When the Federal
Arbitration Court put an end to quarterly
adjustments of Federal awards several
years ago, it campaigned for their con-
tinuance on State awards. (Cahill first
opposed this, then gave in.) Then it
campaigned for N.S.W. Government
employees under Federal awards to have
their wages made-up to the equivalent
of State awards. This, too, was granted.
Now that the latest 15s. increase has
put the Federal basic wage 7s. ahead of
the State wage, they’re asking Cahill to
legislate to give State-award men Federal
rates, but still retain quarterly adjust-
ments. The idea obviously, as Federal
Minister for Labor McMahon has said,
is to pick the eyes out of the two awards.
• •
In 1958, for the tenth consecutive year,
births in Australia showed an increase
over the previous year. The total was
222,504 and the rate per thousand 22.59
—slightly lower than in 1957. Queens-
land, South Australia and Westralia
showed a slight rise in the rate per
thousand ; N.S.W., Victoria and Tas-
mania a slight fall.
• e
Sometimes meat in Melbourne is very
much cheaper in superior suburbs than
in industrial centres, and the Victorian
Housewives’ Association, after pondering
the possibilities of a meat boycott and
discarding it because of husbands’ insati-
able appetite for a good steak, is now
considering opening its own meat-
market.
Hie Housewives’ Association wants
to know why butchers are entitled to
such a large profit; and they want to
talk it over with the Master Butchers,
with representatives of the primary pro-
ducers in attendance to check-up on
prices. The president of the association is
Gladys Ha in, the former writer, who runs
it as intelligently and directly as she
wrote.
• •
Postage - stamps have been recognised
by many nations as a good medium for
political and tourist propaganda as well
as a way of earning foreign currency.
In May the Soviet bloc precipitated a
political incident over the international
stamp exhibition in Hamburg, which
attracted philatelists from all over the
world. The East Germans objected to
the term “East Germany” in the cata-
logue, and barred 45 collectors from
visiting Hamburg. Thereupon Czecho-
slovakia, Poland and Russia withdrew
their entries.
• •
The huge disparity the number
of Housing Commission homes, built in
city and country areas has been pointed
out by W. A. Chaffey, M.L.A. for Tam-
worth and Deputy Leader of the N.S.W.
Country party. He claims that in one
recent year one Sydney suburb alone
received more than three times as many
homes as the whole of the North Coast,
Northern, Central and Southern Table-
lands, the North - western, Central-
western, South-western and Riverina
Regions put together.
Of the funds which the N.S.W. Govern-
ment is required under an agreement
with the Commonwealth Government to
set aside for co - operative building-
societies during 1959-60, advances total-
ling £2,200,000 have been allocated to
49 societies in the Newcastle-Sydney-
Wollongong area and only £150,000 to
societies in the rest of the State, defined
as “country.” The five country societies
to receive advances are situated at Moss
Vale, Gosford, Nowra, Penrith and
St. Marys.
• •
“Stromlo”: Every journalist suffers at
times from misprints, but one which
occurred in an article of mine published
recently in an Asian journal may lead to
some curious ideas of Australia. My
manuscript referred to some “uninformed
Australians.” The article described them
as “uniformed Australians,” and possibly
persuaded some Asians that in these parts
we wear jackboots and politically-colored
shirts.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: One of the curiosities of
Loan Councils and Premiers’ Conferences
is the manner in which the Sydney news-
papers always assert that Victoria is
either getting favored treatment or that
its plight is due to its low taxes and
allegedly “inadequate social-services” in
pre-uniform-tax days; and the corre-
sponding way in which Melbourne papers
complain of the injustices to Victoria
resulting from the favored treatment
accorded to N.S.W. There’s never any
attempt to look at the allocations from
an Australian viewpoint.
• •
Commenting on the extra £7,350,000
received by N.S.W. as tax-reimburse-
ments, Country-party leader Cutler said
that it should enable the Government to
spend a bit more freely on country ser-
vices. He said that for years past the
Cahill Government had been using
shortage of funds as a regular excuse for
turning-down requests for country needs.
It could no longer do so. He doesn’t
seem to know the Cahill Government
very well.
• •
Queensland Premier Nicklin has
promised to establish a new land-
valuations appeal tribunal early in the
next session of Parliament. The decision
is the outcome of widespread complaints
against recent revaluations of land, and
was made after Cabinet had had a long
discussion on a public protest - meeting
recently held at Gatton.
• •
Britain’s unemployment figure dropped
by 67,000 in the four weeks to June 15 ;
the total at that date was 413,000 com-
pared with 620,000 at the beginning of
the year.
• •
The International Court has given a
decision in a dispute over sovereignty
submitted to it by the Governments of
Holland and Belgium. The land involved
has been debatable soil for over 700
years ; it lies within Dutch territory, but
is claimed by Belgium by virtue of a
claim made by the Duke of Brabant in
the 12th century. By a 10-4 majority
the ..court has decided in favor of
Belgium. The area involved is 35 acres.
• •
J. A. J. Hunter, former M.H.R. for
Maranoa (1921-40) writes:
A note in my 1935 diary reads: “Sal. Army
suit, hat, ties, shirt, shoes, socks, £l.” (Page
enclosed for verification.) The night-porter of
a Sydney hotel rang me very late on a wet,
dreary night and said a “hobo” wanted to see
me, and had asked for me by my Christian-
name. 1 went down. The man was a wreck—
coat pinned up to the neck, no shirt, hat with
no band, shoes worn to the uppers—and
sopping wet. He was an ex-Labor M.H.R.
The story he told me was that since his
defeat he had been unable to hold a job
for any length of time. When his workmates
found out who he was they refused to work
with him. The reason? In a redistribution
his seat had been absorbed by another, also
held by an A.L.P. man, and the latter had
been chosen for the “combined” seat. My
visitor had then contested the seat as an
Independent Labor candidate.
He didn’t smell of drink; he didn't ask for
a drink, and 1 didn’t offer him one. While
the porter was making some coffee and sand-
wiches I took him up to a bathroom and
dressed him in the complete rig-out mentioned
above. His own “outfit” the porter put into
the incinerator.
Still being a little suspicious, I rang the
People's Palace and arranged board and lodg-
ing for a week —for which 1 paid. As a test
1 lent him my only umbrella and told him
to bring it back in the morning, thinking that
if he didn’t turn-up he wasn't worth bothering
about. He did turn-up, looking a changed man
—more as I knew him in the old Melbourne
days.
1 took him round to Cambridge, the then
secretary of the Farmers and Settlers’ Associa-
tion, who later got him a job in a western
garage where there were no other employees,
except the son of the proprietor-. Cambridge
also arranged his transport. He wrote to me
occasionally and once sent me £l5, as the
“estimated cost of his rehabilitation” —which
I returned to him. Some years after he was
killed in an accident.
Such were the conditions in the “old” Labor
party when their Parliamentary members were
absolutely dependent on the executive not only
foir the present but for the future. The institu-
tion of Parliamentary superanquation removed
the fear of absolute dependence, and possibly
now accounts for the A.L.P. executive’s opposi-
tion to the Richardson report. A dissatisfied
Labor M.P. will not now “starve.”
Probably the objections of some of the
metropolitan press to the Richardson report
may rise from the fact that members will not
now be so dependent on “favorable notices,”
but will be able to act independently and. in
case of defeat, at least have something to tide
them over till they get started again in private
life.


Personal
ITEMS
Alex Coulthard, one of the most
experienced Victorian public servants,
has returned, after paving the way in
the U.S. and Canada for Bolte’s Promote
Victoria Mission, cockahoop with pros-
pects for further industrial investment,
especially in engineering and chemicals.
There was nothing really parochial about
the Premier’s approach, he says ; Bolte
was selling investment in Australia, and
investment naturally would go to the
best place, Victoria!
• •
From Henrietta Drake-Brockman, in
Perth:—-
As mentioned already in B. 17/6/’59,
there is to be a sale of (donated) pictures
here, July 17, at our Journalists’ Club to
benefit Gavin Casey, who founded it, and is
still in Hollywood Hospital but expected to be
out at end of year. Pictures are coming from
all over Australia. The auctioneer will be
cartoonist Rigby of the “Daily News,” and
his clerk will be Kirwan Ward, of the same
paper. I was asked to open this show, or
start it off, or whatever, but I don’t really
know much about it, except the date, and that
my job is to say nice things about Gavin's
work, which 1 never find difficult.
• •
“M.T.P.” (Fiji): Birthday honors here
included C.M.G. for Charles Robert
Harley Nott, Secretary for Fijian Affairs ;
M.B.E. for Ilisoni Cokanasiga, William
Frank Harcourt Freeman and Sadanand
Maharaj ; B.E.M. (military) for Sgt.
Isoa Wilfred ( Vavaitamana ; and the
Colonial Police Medal for Sub-Inspector
Akuila Matanibukaca. In addition, the
Governor awarded Certificates of Honor
to six prominent citizens.
• •-
The new Shell building which will
go up at the corner of Bourke and
William Streets, Melbourne, has been
designed by John Buchan,' managing-
director of Buchan, Laird and Buchan,
in association with the U.S. firm of
Owens, Skidmore and Merrill. Buchan
is now on a six-weeks’ tour of the U.S.,
Britain and the Continent, having a
general look at design of commercial
buildings, and also looking into municipal
affairs abroad. From previous visits he
brought back sound ideas on traffic-
engineering which he turned to good
account as chairman of the Yarra city’s
traffic-committee; he has also been a
member of the Victoria Promotion Com-
mittee which has done a lot to publicise
the State overseas.
• •
The Queensland Grain Growers’
Association has appointed journalist and
broadcaster E. K. (Ken) Patterson as
its new general-secretary. Born and bred
on a farm in Toowoomba (Q.), Patterson,
a War II Digger, will have as part of
his duties the editing of the association’s
first official organ, “The Queensland
Graingrower,” due to be published
shortly.
• •
“R.R.D.”: Not many men can say
that they were on the Kokoda Trail and
later at the D-day landings, and I’d
hazard a bet that Brigadier Cyril
Thomas —C.C.R.A. First Corps, and just
recently appointed an honorary A.D.C.
N.G. TO NORMANDY.
to the Governor-General—is the only
one that did both and parachuted into’
Normandy, too. His soldiering took him
to the Middle East with the 7th Division
and later to New Guinea as a field-
gunner. Later he was one of a handful
of Australian officers who were with the
British forces at the Normandy landing,
where he served as Brigade-Major Royal
Artillery, 6th British Airborne Division.
Back in Australia at the war’s end,
Brigadier Thomas rejoined the Common-
wealth Bank and these days is Australian
superintendent of the hire-purchase side
of the bank’s business. He’s just left for
a course in advanced management at the
University of Hawaii, and then will go
on to the U.S.A., Canada and the United
Kingdom, returning to Australia in
November. _
• •
Mrs. Bruno Widdestrom, due to
reach the century on July 22, is a sister
of Randolph Bedford, who was about
10 years her junior, and who wrote in
his autobiography, Naught to Thirty-
three, how his big sister Maude would
haul him about the yard in an old-tub,
and generally protect him from the world
of animals and of men.
Randolph is gone some 18 years, but
big sister Maude goes on to her century
with a humorous wistfulness regarding
the days when she protected Randolph
from the dangers of Sydney in the
’seventies.
• •
“Illawarra”: The day after Harry
Herbert Lee arrived back in Wollongong
(N.S.W.) with the medical degree he had
got at Edinburgh University in 1902,
Mount Kembla mine exploded, killing
96 and injuring many more. The young
doctor was one of the first on the scene
to render aid. He joined his father,
Dr. Timothy Lee, in a practice which
father and son held between them for a
total of 74 years, and this succession
finished only a fortnight ago, on June 23,
when Harry Lee passed on. Cricketer
and sportsman (expert with the shotgun
until well into his 80’s), Dr. Harry Lee
was one of the South Coast’s pioneer
motorists and was an alderman of
Wollongong for several terms.
• •
Off for a trip to Britain and the Con-
tinent, Jim Paterson, Perth printer-
publisher, served in War I as navigator
in the Royal Naval Air Service and
later with the R.A.F. He was Chief
Scout Commissioner in Western Aus-
tralia for six years, and is a past-president
of the State branch of the Air Force
Association and of the Overseas League.
• •
lan Carne, appointed manager of
B.H.P.’s new overseas division to step-up
exports of steely has been right through
the mill, as have so many B.H.P. execu-
tives. He was appointed a technical
cadet at Newcastle after he graduated
from Adelaide University as a Bachelor
of Engineering in 1939, and the B.H.P.
shaping-and-moulding process began with
spells in the safety department, coke-
ovens, blast-furnace, open-hearth, rolling-
mills and foundries.
He was promoted to shift-foreman in
the alloy department and then to day-
foreman in the magnesium department;
and in 1943 was made technical assistant
to the production superintendent and
transferred to Melbourne in 1949 as a
technical assistant to the management.
He was appointed U.S. representative
in New York in 1951, and four years
later returned to Melbourne as executive-
assistant to the chief general-manager;
so he now has a fair idea what B.H.P.
is all about, and, in its new export depart-
ment, is about.
• •
“C.E.S.”: Orme Denny, Qan t a s
manager in Papua-New Guinea and a
pilot with the company for more than
30 years, has decided on a spell. Hailing
from Victoria, he joined the R.A.A.F.
in 1921 and was with it till 1929, when
he changed to Qantas. He flew the
Brisbane-Townsville service for some
years, then went to Guinea Airways, and
in 1936 joined Q.E.A. In 1942 he piloted
flying-boats from Broome (W.A.) to
Tjilatjap, evacuating civilians and
.wounded servicemen until Java fell. Later
he commanded a flight of DHB6’s in the


evacuation of Mt. Hagen (N.G.) Mission
Station. When the landing-strip proved
inadequate for take-off in that operation,
Denny organised a great sing-sing, and
for a day and a night 2000 natives danced
up and down the field, stamping the
ground hard enough for planes to take-
off and land. Eighteen flights over
hazardous country were made to get 90
people out —and the job was mostly done
behind the Jap lines.
• •
“Gad”: A valuable contribution to
Australian biography could be coming
up—Arthur Lindsay Davis, 63-year-old
son of Arthur Hoey Davis (“Steele
Rudd”), proposes writing a biography of
his father. A woolclasser in Brisbane,
where two of his brothers also live,
A.L.D. left the Darling Downs (scene of
the “Selection” stories) at the age of 18.
but has often been back since.
• •
“Cisticola”: When Anthony Musgrave,
entomologist of Sydney’s Australian
Museum, passed on recently he left more
than the usual “gap in the ranks” where
he had served. Born at Cooktown (Q.)
just on 64 years ago, he was a lifelong,
competent student of insects and spiders,
though with a flair also for history and
bibliography. His bulky volume
Bibliography of Australian Entomology,
1775-1930, published in 1932, is in-
valuable to students for its biographies
as well as for its basic material. In
addition, he did a considerable amount
of honorary indexing for the Royal Aus-
tralian historical Society and had re-
cently published in the “Australian
Zoologist” a complete list of the zoologi-
cal items and biographies contained in
the new edition of the Australian
Encyclopaedia.
• •
British-born Geoffrey Fish, lately in
Fremantle, came down from Malacca,
where he’s spent the last three years
studying the habits of his namesakes,
as a member of the British fish-culture
research-station there. Before going to
Malaya he studied freshwater fish in
Africa ; he believes that cross-breeding
should make it possible to increase the
fish-population of both Africa and
and so help to solve their general food-
problems.
• •
Serving 50 years in the law seems a
habit among Townsville (Q.) solicitors.
Latest to complete his half-century is
G. P. Ryan, who was admitted by the
Full Bench in Brisbane in June, 1909.
He’s the fourth practising solicitor in
the city to do the trick, the others being
G. Suthers, G. V. Roberts and A. E.
Dean.
• •
Dr. Walter Douglas Neal, who's been
superintendent of curriculum and research
in the Westralian Education Department
since 1958, becomes, at 39, the depart-
ment's first superintendent of special
services. Educated in Perth, he started
teaching in 1939, but took time off for
War 11, when he served as a radar-officer
with the R.A.A.F. in the Pacific area.
A scholarship took him to Columbia
University, New York, where he qualified
as Doctor of Education, and a Carnegie
grant later gave him the opportunity of
looking-over the educational institutions
of the U.S.
• •
“Joanne”: At Nambucca Heads
(N.S.W.) Golf Club the other day Robert
Burns won the A-grade title and his son
Bob, who’s 13, later took-out the B-grade
championship. The young-’un, who
started playing only six months ago,
won 6 up.
HENRY WILCKENS , Federal presi-
dent of the Australian Institute of
Builders, is managing - director of
Wilckens and Burnside, building - con-
tractors, and a director of several other
South Australian firms. In spare time he’s
mostly with the Royal South Australian
Yacht Squadron, of which he’s vice-
commodore.
Some recent dipping into Queensland
motoring records shows that the pioneer
around Toowoomba was W. M.
Trevethan, a foundation-member of the
R.A.C.Q. The Trevethan brothers opened
a garage in Toowoomba in 1902, and
in 1905 four cars lined-up outside for
a race round the block. In 1906 H. A.
Trevethan toured Queensland towns in
his 8-h.p. De Dion, carrying joy-ride
passengers at 6d. each —some came from
100 miles away to have the sixpenny-
worth of thrills.
• •
“Bogaduck”: The Green’s Plains
correspondent of the now-defunct
Adelaide “Register” whose weekly
budget of fact and fiction enlivened the
country-news column was Peter Allen,
M.P. (B. 20/5/’59). His writing was so
popular that businessmen would discuss
what was supposed to have happened at
Green’s Plains before proceeding to com-
ment on Kaiser Bill, who, before 1914,
occupied the position Hitler did 25 years
later and Khrushchev does today. But
anyone who went looking for Green’s
Plains, near Kadina, found a few farms,
without as much as a post-office. An
Englishman named Aston did the same
thing for the little Mallee-country district
of Claypans. The consensus in the news-
paper office was that Aston should be
able to get a job as a first-class public-
relations officer if he ever grew tired of
farming.
• •
Creating the new post of Public Rela-
tions Officer, the Westralian Government
has chosen W. W. Mitchell to fill it.
Hailing from Ballarat, Mitchell started
as a journalist in Victoria, switched to
the A.B.C.’s news-service in Perth in
1947, and joined the “West Australian” in
1954. During War II he served in the
Middle East and the Pacific. His present
aim is to tell the world—including the
rest of Australia —the many things that
should be known about Westralia’s
potential.
• o
A senior chemist of Queensland’s
Department of Agriculture, T. J. Beck-
man, has been awarded a French Govern-
ment scholarship for seven months’ study
in France. At the Curie Institute in Paris
he will look into specialised techniques
of chemical analysis calculated to help
the department in its warfare against
pests, in which field French scientists
have made great progress.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 85, Dr. Walter Llewellyn Rees,
who had been for 60 years in general practice
in Sydney. Well known also as racehorse-
owner and member of the A.J.C.
In Melbourne, at 76, Dr. M. D. Silberberg,
pioneer in electro-cardiology. He was with the
14th A.G.H. jn Egypt in War I.
In Melbourne, Charles H. Leigh, composer,
hymn-writer and member of the Salvation Army
for more than 50 years.
In. Brisbane, at 64, Charlie Saunders, official
masseur to Australian Olympic teams in 1948,
1952 and 1956.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 84, Harcus Plimmer,
theatrical critic of the city’s “Dominion” for
over 50 years; as familiar there as Mt. Victoria
itself.
In Sydney, Charles Francis Laseron, scientist
and F.R.Z.S. Assistant-biologist on Mawson's
Antarctic expedition, he wrote his own account,
South with Mawson, which was widely read.
He also published two well-known geological
textbooks, The Face of Australia and Ancient
Australia. He was wounded in the fighting
on Gallipoli, and was a foundation-member
of Sydney Legacy.
In Sydney, at 84, Clarence Radford Chapman,
Under-Secretary of the N.S.W. Treasury,
1925-35.
In Sydney, at 64, Robert Emmett Savage,
M.L.C., as prominent in his work for the
Rugby League as he was in political and trade-
union activities. He was manager of the
Australian Rugby League team that toured Mew
Zealand, England and France in 1937-38.
In Perth, at 85, Robert Smith, pioneer of the
Westralian timber-milling industry, and
foundation-president of the W.A. Sawmillers’
Association.


ABORIGINAHTIES
BALLY - HOOLEY
TTis real name was lost to all but the
post - office ; but by Bally - Hooley
he was known to all in Gympie (Q.).
He was the town bottle-oh in the days
when Gympie was passing from produc-
tion of gold to butter ; it might have
been that a drop in town-population
affected his business, or that he was
naturally sour ; whatever it was, his call,
“Any bottils any bottils any bottils,”
sounded like a long grumble.
Balley-Hooley drove a gaunt grey
horse in a shabby springcart, and when-
ever they halted the shafts stuck up in
the air. I used to worry on the horse’s
account, but my father assured me the
animal was really quite strong, and that
the elevated shafts held him up and gave
him a rest.
Bally-Hooley himself was a small man
with a paunch well protected, summer
“ You've cleaned me out! Will an IOU do y' until Friday? ”
and winter, by a large cloudy grey-flannel
shirt, the half-sleeves of which reached
well down his forearms, partly conceal-
ing some remarkable tattooing. His face
was wizened, weatherbeaten and stubbly ;
one eye was permanently screwed-up —
due, we believed, to shutting it to peer
with the other into countless bottles.
His rounds brought him to our place
two or three times a year, and before
he had stopped at the back-gate our dog
would break into frenzied barking;
Bally-Hooley had thrown the gate-chain
at a previous dog, and the vendetta was
carried on by its descendants. Our
empties were kept under the kitchen, and
Bally-Hooley refused, rightly enough, to
crawl under for them. We kids dragged
them out into the yard, and then the
sorting began: beer and stout in one
modest pile, soft-drinks in another,
vinegar and pickle the last hopefully
included by us each time.
Next, Bally-Hooley would squint into
each receptacle (for cracks), smell it (for
kerosene, carbolic, etc.), and then came
the counting. The bottles went into a
bag, at the rate of a dozen to his count
of nine or ten. Mother was too gentle
to haggle with him, and we were too
scared, especially as we were anxious to
get our hands on the cash, and he had
been known to walk away if offended.
At last, from a greasy flannel money-bag,
payment would be made sixpence a
dozen for beer-bottles, a shilling for soft-
drinks, and it was a favor if he took your
vinegar ones for nothing. Bally-Hooley
would then drag-off his merchandise in
a holey bag, bottle-necks protruding here
and there, and we were left with about
Is. 2d. to whack-up among four, and the
same sad little pile of pickle and kerosene
rejects.
Independent as they come, Bally-
Hooley finished-up as the peanut-man at
Olympia, the open-air picture-theatre.
Columba.
* * * *
“Jesmondene”: Pursuant to discussion
here of our edible molluscs, gastronomes
are lauding the soup of a Sydney canner.
For 1958, 65381 b. of ulgarie flesh
(Plebidonax deltoides) composed this
succulent clam-potage. Harvested from
northern N.S.W. beaches, the bivalves
are expressed by night-train to ensure
same-day processing and flavor-retention.
In this first commercial use of the
mollusc, the production-line of pressure-
cooking, shell-opening, rumbling and
spray-washing is of all-Australian design
and manufacture, and, if my taste-buds
don’t deceive me, this Aussie product
leaves the Massachusetts clam-chowder
for dead.
* * * *
“Windy”: The bottle-tree is disap-
pearing in Queensland, fires and the axe
having seemingly settled its chance of
survival. Brigalow-scrub was the home
of this narrow-leafed tree, the trunk of
which sometimes reached to 80ft., with
a vast umbrella of leaves. It is unique
in that it can’t stand the axe. Even a
small scarf, which wouldn’t affect another
■tree, will start the rot. The soft, pithy
centre dries-up and decays in papery
waste. Then a hollow forms in the
centre of the trunk. Finally all that’s
left is a huge case of bark and leaves.
In drought-time the bottle-tree was
invaluable ; its leaves are edible by stock,
and even the hard corrugated bark of a
big tree would keep a mob of bullocks
alive for weeks. The tree has been over-
rated as a water-bag, but in drought-
time the gooey liquid held in the trunk
has often saved the lives of cattle.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: In the horse-drawn days
it was the custom in some districts to
erect a cairn of stones by the roadside
wherever a fatal accident had taken
place. A more up-to-date suggestion-
revived since the disastrous Queen’s
Birthday weekend —is that badly smashed
cars should be left in full view at danger-
spots. While these would not add to
scenic beauty, their presence would
surely be justified if they averted one
single accident. Whether they would
prove a deterrent to speed and careless-
ness, or merely an additional hazard by
distracting drivers’ attention, is another
matter.
# * * *
“Sack”: That ex-matelot who refers
to the ship he served on —correction,
“in” —as the “Endeavour-tig-able” (B.
17/6/’59) must be an individualist. I
know two former crew-members of the
carrier, and both a|fectionately speak of
the old flat-top as the “Indie-fat.”
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: Peter Mann’s “Big
Biz in Budgies” (B. 10/6/’59) was a
bright review of the subject, but it did
something of an injustice to old John
Gould’s pioneering activities. Gould did
not, in fact, speak of the appeal of the
budgie when “grilled on toast,” but con-
centrated on paying homage to “this
lovely little bird,” not only because of
its pretty plumage and dainty form but
for its “extreme cheerfulness of disposi-
tion and sprightliness of manner.” It




was all these qualities that caused Gould
to take a number of living examples to
England when he returned there in 1840,
and through that action he started the
cult that has now developed to such an
enormous extent. Incidentally, Gould used
for the bird the name “warbling grass-
parrakeet,” at the same time giving
“canary-parrot” as the colonists’ name
and “betcherrygah” as the abo. title. It
wasn’t until a good many years later
that the term budgerigar caught-on.
Meanwhile, certain other variants of the
native renderings had been given a run,
among them the quaint “buggerygong,”
which found its way into verse during
last century.
* * * *
“L. Mac.”: Andrew George Atkins
died in Toowoomba on May 27 at the
age of 93. Now, would he have been
the last of the Cobb and Co. coach-
drivers?
* * * *
“Margaret”: Touching on the mention
here of outback use of ship-tanks, after
leaving the sailing-ships they were loaded,
with contents, on to bullock-wagons and
often carted many hundreds of miles
inland. Some ended their days in the
“And what's more, if you say ‘Yes’ I’ll build you a special swimming-pool!”
vegetable-gardens of station homesteads,
in the days when each station had its
Chinese gardener. A dyed : in-the-wool
conservative, Ah Fong would have none
of the newfangled hoses and sprinklers.
The most modern appliance he would
allow was a ship-tank, with top
removed, sunk with its top edges flush
with ground-level and filled from a 3in.
pipe, with wheel-valve. A broad plank
bridged the tank, and on to this Ah Fong
would jog, kneel to dip and fill the two
cans suspended from his shoulder-yoke,
rise and jog-off along the narrow, raised
paths between beds, spraying water as
he trotted. Though his bare feet wore
the plank ice-smooth and the filled cans,
made from 4gal. tins, weighed around
801 b., I never saw one of his race slip
or stumble, perhaps due to lifelong
practice in the paddyfields of their home-
land.
Ohortly after the cell-door of the bush-
town clink slammed behind the
blotto bloke he began to yell: “I’m
killing a snake! Help! I’m killing a
snake! ” The cop strolled good-
humoredly back, said, “Relax, brother —■
they’re only pink-’uns,” then stopped in
his tracks. The inmate, now' sober, was
battering the head of a large snake on
the floor of the cell. “It was in my bed,”
he justly complained.—“A.R.”
* * * *
“Stromlo”: It is curious to learn from
“Mackville” (B. 24/6/.’59) that, in spite
of the publicity given to the C.5.1.R.0.
bird-banding scheme, some people are
still unaware of what they can do to
help. When a live bird with a band is
found, and the band can be examined,
a note should be made of the band-
number, and the bird then released. If
the bird is dead, the band can be taken
off and sent to the Wildlife Section,
C.5.1.R.0., Canberra. In each case the
finder should also send details of time
and place. Any additional information
—such as the bird being part of a flock,
or weather and other conditions —can be
useful. Any expense involved will be
refunded —and an additional mite of
knowledge will be added to the growing
fund. Every now and then a thrilling
discovery is made, such as that of the
albatross banded off Sydney and later
found near the Falkland Islands after a
flight of at least 6000 miles. If that bird
is seen again off the Australian coast and
later in the Falklands, we shall know
more and more of the migratory habits
of this picturesque species.
* * * *
“Alma”: It was the first time the raw
recruit had been on the road, travelling
to sell his firm’s product, and he had a
couple of surprises at the outback
country pubs, but he reckoned that the
finish was when he landed at an out-
of-the-way little township and made his
way to the -only hotel, to be greeted with
a notice hung on the door: “Closed,
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday.”
And it was Tuesday.
“Two Jays”: Last spring a pair of
tawny frogmouths nested in a pine-tree
less than 25yds. from our house. Junior
failed to reach maturity, being blown
out of the nest by a gale. Since then
Mum and Dad park daily either on the
same bough of a boree or the same
branch of the pine. They have become
so used to us they don’t even bother
to camouflage when we go near. We’ve
never known frogmouths to nest in a
pine-tree before, nor to camp so close
to a house.
* * * *
“Ringer”: “Of all the drongos I’ve
ever seen,” said Bill, “a jackeroo we had
took the cake. We’d been musterin’ a
mob of ewes and lambs into the yards,
an’ I sends him to bring in a handful
o’ stragglers while the rest of us boils
our quarts. He’s away near a flamin’
hour, an’ when at last he comes back,
with his horse an’ himself just about
all-in, I asks him what took him so
bl.anky long, and did he get ’em all.
‘Yes, I got them all,’ he says ; ‘but there
was a smaller brown joker with queer-
lookin’ legs that gave me a hell of a
chase.’ 1 looks at him, jumps on me prad,
and canters up to the yards. Blanky
aleck had yarded a flamin’ outsize hare
with the woollies!”
GOLD
I'll never forget the fire at night,
The faces reflected in dancing light
Of the diggers sitting around —
The songs we sung, the tales we told
Were always of the hoards of gold
Still hidden in the ground ;
The duffers we dug on Bara Creek
When we lived on rabbit for over a week
And could scarcely swing a pick
While the diggers on the other bank
Got gold in every hole they sank
But we couldn't take a trick.
The eighty-foot hole by the redgum-tree
Where we struck the water flowing free
—Had all our work in vain —
The gold we got at Limestone Rocks
And the colors came rolling down the box,
Then all was well again.
And Lawsons Creek where the willows
grew ;
The whirr of the wood-ducks as they flew;
The brown snakes cold and grim ;
The butcher-bird who sat at our feet
And deftly caught the scraps of meat
That we would throw to him.
The distant hills of hazy blue,
The timbered crests of Bukaroo
Where echoing thunders roar
And circling round the mountain peak
Eager to tear with talon and beak
The wedge-tailed eagles soar.
1 haven't lost the gold-fever yet,
1 know that l will never forget
Those wonderful days of old:
I never have seen a finer sight
Than a tail of colors yellow bright,
Of beautiful virgin gold.
n.s.w.
DUKE TRITTON.


ROCKET POWER
for your car. ..
Gives you all these
advantages ...
• ROCKET POWER!
• More miles per gallon
0 Easier starting
0 Smoother, quieter running
% Longer engine life
Fast acceleration
Australia's FIRST
BORON Patrol
Ampol Boron Special is Australia’s
only Boron petrol. It is the best
petrol you can buy! Test it your-
self. Fill up with Ampol Boron
Special to-day! Costs no more
than the Super Grade petrols it
replaces. Get rocket power for the
road at no extra cost.
NOTHING MATCHES BORON!
f A
A


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H.
Members oj the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Mullens
Telephone
BWBI7I <3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECEUSX.” Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. 11. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
22 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Bring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
SHARE PRICES AND 1958-59 PROFITS
At the end of the 1958-59
financial, year last week,
share prices had reached a
peak. The rise during the
twelve months in a number of
cases had been prodigious.
8.H.P., allowing for the new
issue, was outstanding among
the leaders —a year previously
the price in Sydney was
465. 3d., while on Tuesday of
last week (June 30), final sale
for the day was 575. 6d. ; and
there had been a one-for-five
par issue in between.
A.C.I. rose from 545. to
695. 6d. over the year, Colonial
Sugar from £42 10s. to
£55 12s. 6d. Commonwealth
Industrial Gases lifted from
525. 9d. to 705., Kandos Cement
from 50s. 6d. to 605., Burns
Philp from 555. 6d. to 82s. 6d.
There has been a boom in
the heavyweights over the past
year, clear from the foregoing
comparisons. In a few cases
there have been new issues—
in the instance of Burns, Philp,
a bonus-issue but mostly
market interest has been a
general one, based on what the
shape of things to come is
thought to be.
A mong the second-line and
up-and-coming stocks, there
have been some even more
spectacular rises. Television
Corporation 10s. shares (repre-
senting Channel 9 in Sydney)
were 10s. Id. on June 30, 1958;
on June 30, 1959, they sold at
465. 9d., after going to over
50s. a few days earlier.
While in the previous year
there had been a boom in the
shares of companies making
TV equipment, it required the
example of commercial TV in
the United Kingdom to spark-
off interest in Australian tele-
casting concerns. Television
Corp. is the only telecasting
co. in either Sydney or Mel-
bourne to have allowed direct
public investment to come into
it, and for an indirect interest
in other commercial channels
the public has to be satisfied
with the purchase of shares in
John Fairfax, Ltd., and Amal-
gamated Wireless (Sydney), or
Herald and Weekly Times,
David Syme or Electronic In-
dustries in Melbourne. As a
result, shares in these holding
companies have soared.
Tn Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart the public has
acquired a direct interest in
new TV-stations, and shares
have leapt to a high premium
at once —contrasting with the
long establishment-period in
which Television Corp. shares
could be bought well below
par.
John Fairfax (Sydney
“Herald,” “Sun” and financier
of the “Mirror” purchased
from Ezra Norton), under
influence of TV stimulation
and increasing newspaper
profits, saw its shares rise from
31s. 6d. to 695. 6d. over the
year, after they had touched
70s. on June 29. The largesse
distributed by Australian News-
print Mills during the term
was a factor in the rise, as it
was also in the case of Herald
and Weekly Times, Melbourne.
H. and W. T. ss. ords. rose
from 30s. to 355., even after
a one-for-two bonus-issue.
ATinster, Ltd., controlling
iVX Westminster Carpets Pty.,
rose from 255. to just under
50s. on a lift in the div. from
15 p.c. to 20 p.c. and announce-
ment of its interest in gamma-
radiation for the treatment of
carpet-materials and food-
stuffs. The experimental stage
is past ; plant for sterilising the
goat-hair used in carpet is
already being erected at Dan-
denong (Vic.).
The ord. shares in Allied
Mills rose from 245. to 475. 9d.
during the 12 months. A one-
for-four par issue had been
made in between, and another
is on the way. The co. is
interested in flourmilling,
bakeries, stock-feed and marga-
rine-manufacturing.
Australian Gypsum rose
from 41s to 525.
Brambles Industries ss.
shares lifted from 19s. to
235. 6d. against an increase in
capital from £550,650 to
£755,525 and the issue of
1,032,000 7s. 6d. convertible
notes and 798,892 ss. partly-
convertible notes.
Ampol Petroleum ss. shares
rose from 14s. 3d. to 215., after
issues of shares and convertible
notes during the year.
Associated Pulp and Paper
lifted from 30s. 9d. to 465. Its
Burnie-board is becoming a
valuable contributor to profits.
Blue-metal companies were
popular. ' Australian Blue
Metal £1 shares jumped from
48s. 3d. to 655. 6d.; Blue Metal
Industries ss. scrip from 9s. 9d.
to 16s.
Cottees (fruit-drinks and
preserves) £1 shares went from
60s. to 925. 6d.
Ducon Condenser 10s. units
rose from 265. to 395.
Lindeman’s £1 ords. went
from 575. to 855., a tribute to
management in a difficult
industry.
Union Carbide, interested in
the new petrochemical venture
at Altona (Vic.), jumped from
60s. to 81s.
The hire-purchase group
again showed some strong
rises, though there is now
likely to be a flattening-out.
Tn contrast to the enthusiastic
demand for the foregoing,
shares, there have been pockets
of reaction. The chain-stores,
suddenly displaying a keenness
for cheap finance that has
indicated an end to the multi-
plication of capital-accounts,
have lost favor. Many retailers
have dropped in the market.
Motor-distributing cos. have
had a tougher time, and in
most instances have seen lower
prices for their shares. Acces-
sory-houses have mostly
dropped even the great
Repco has made small head-
way in the market during the
year. Borg-Warner (formerly
Coote and Jorgensen) has
recently picked-up because of
an appreciation of the ultimate
value of the overseas asso-
ciate’s know-how.
Pastoral cos. have nearly all
lost weight because of the fall
in wool, and the recent
recovery has not brought a
return of sharemarket avoir-
dupois.
Masonite and Paccal have
encountered technical and
other problems.
Co much for the market.
What of the trading activi-
ties of the companies them-
selves?
The picture, is by no means
one that will hang in complete
harmony with the bright colors
of the sharemarket. Certainly
not the colors in the fore-
ground.
ICIANZ last week reported
an increase in sales for the six
months to March 31, but the
increase both in sales and
trading profit was considerably
offset by trading expenses.
Interim div. was maintained at
the previous year’s rate.
Collin Holdings has already
reported a similar experience.
During the past year sales
of sulphuric acid throughout
the Commonwealth showed a
slight reduction on the figure
for the'‘preceding period, indi-
cating little or no movement
in industrial activity as a
whole. Steel output is at only
a slightly higher rate than pre-
viously. Coal is a little higher,
so is cement. Building-
materials and -fittings have
shown mostly a static tendency,
with increases in a few items.
Bricks, tiles and timber have
exhibited little change on the
previous year.
The profits of Pye Industries,
Ltd., makers of TV equip-
ment and household appliances,
showed a heavy fall during
the year to March 31, but still
represented a return of over
34 p.c. on ord. capital.
Tooth and Co., the big Syd-
ney brewer, has reported a
slight fall in sales of beer, and
blames it on the higher excise
now payable. But it is probable
that TV has affected beer sales,
as it has affected so many other
things.
Colonial Sugar has showp
moderately better results, but
the outlook is still governed to
some extent by the export posi-
tion of sugar.
General Motors - Holden’s
huge profit is not typical of
either the economy as a whole
or the motor-trade generally,
but it is a long-term indicator
of what other industries in
Australia may eventually
achieve.
Tn general, it is clear that
-*• the overall high level of
share prices is not the result of
buoyant company profits,
though there will be some


m®iLaiE)&TO?
For convenience and safety carry
A.N.Z. Bank Travellers' Cheques
Follow the lead of experienced travellers. Wherever
you decide to go in Australia or overseas —carry
your money in A.N.Z. Bank Travellers’ Cheques.
CONVENIENT because they can be readily cashed.
SAFE—in the event of loss, full refund will be made
promptly by the Bank.
Available at all branches of
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ANZSO2.IBSB
excellent showings among the
more youthful up-and-coming
group.
Sharemarket interest seems
still to be the result mainly
of taxation incidence and
anomalies, overseas interest in
Australian investments for
portfolio purposes, institu-
tional buying within Australia,
the scrip-shortage, and a belief
that this country is on the
threshold of greater industrial
development.
Over the long term, there
appears to be much to support
the development point of view.
Not that our present com-
paratively rapid growth in
population means a rapid
growth in consumption. Even
a 3 p.c. growth annually is not
a vast increase when trans-
ferred to company turnovers.
The dynamic companies of the
past few years have usually
shown annual increases of 20
p.c. or more in turnover.
Ampol Petroleum, for ex-
ample, between 1954 and 1958
showed an expansion in turn-
over aggregating 113 p.c.
Growth in Australian in-
dustry, to justify recent in-
creases in the prices of shares
which have brought immediate
yields down to as low as 3 p.c.
or less, will need to be assisted
by greater consumption per
head, possibly accelerated by a
further cutting-down of manu-
factured imports. There seems
to be overall scope for
expansion on this basis, but
costs will remain a major
problem, especially in view of
recent developments in the
wage-structure.
On the whole, prices for
popular stocks remain un-
comfortably high in relation
to their immediate financial
background. And in view of
the technological changes
which are taking place in
industry every day, it may be
dangerous to bet too far ahead
on industries subject to techno-
logical change.
Innamincka
[From Li. Owen]
/Currently, the only major
well drilling for oil on the
Australian mainland has
reached a very important
horizon. This horizon is of
immediate interest not only to
the several groups engaged in
the search for petroleum
within the confines of the
Great Artesian Basin but to
all drilling in the expectation
of striking the black gold in
P r e-Cretaceous sediments on
the continent.
In view of this obvious fact
—and bearing in mind that
half the cost of the well is
being paid for by the Aus-
tralian taxpayer—the informa-
tion released to the press with
reference to Innamincka No.
1 well can be considered only
as meagre, to put it mildly.
Were the well being sunk on
a “back-yard” concession,
where the possibility of legal
robbery of oil by drilling off-
set-wells on a competitor’s
ground occurred, a degree of
reticence would be understand-
able. There is no necessity,
however, to keep the public
almost completely in the dark
as to the characteristics and
age of the strata being pene-
trated in a well surrounded by
a permit of the vastness of that
occupied by the group working
at Innamincka.
This commentator cannot be
blamed, therefore, for an
attempt to pierce the Iron
Curtain of secrecy by deduc-
tion from the very inadequate
data released to the press,
already four of five days old
when it reaches Sydney.
The following information
can be gleaned from the June
releases. On June 5 the depth
of Innamincka No. 1 well was
7140 ft. in unspecified strata.
The next release (which
appeared in the evening Syd-
ney papers on June 16, and in
the morning papers on the
following da'y) stated that cores
between 7194 ft. and 7209 ft.
showed “hard sand and shale,”
and that the well was drilling
ahead in “red sandy hard shale”
at 7435 ft. on June 12.
The next release indicated
that a drill-bit had been lost
in the hole at 7464 ft. —presum-
ably about June 12-13 and
that much of the succeeding
week had been taken up in
fishing for the broken bit.
The latest release (Sydney
morning papers, June 27)
reports that the bit has been
recovered and the hole cleaned
out. Drilling was resumed at
7464 ft. on a date not specified.
It will thus be observed that
the only real information
(apart from well-depths) to be
culled from these releases is
that “hard sand and shale”
occurred between 7194 ft. and
7207 ft., and that the well was
in “red sandy hard shale” at
7435 ft. Twenty - nine feet
lower, the bit broke-off.
I hazard a guess that the “red
sandy shale” represents con-
tinental conditions of deposi-
tion (possibly Trias), followed
by an abrupt change in struc-
ture which led to the breaking-
off of the bit.
It is to be hoped that ade-
quate coring is being under-
taken below 7464 ft., and I
trust (with misgivings) that
the cores will be correctly
orientated.
The results of such orien-
tated coring should prove to
the operating company that
post-Jurassic structures, in
this part of the world, have
little relationship to those in
pre-Triassic beds. It should be
obvious, also, that special tech-
niques and interpretations—so
often advocated in these pages
—are a requisite if the search
for pre-Triassic oil-reservoirs
in Australia is to be guided by


Now
Open!
The
Government-Guaranteed
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
s'/4%
LOAN
For 7, 10 or 25 years
Principal and interest are unconditionally guaranteed
by the New South Wales Government, and secured on
the Board’s income, estimated at £15,000,000 for 1959/60.
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in
N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania.
Loan applications may be lodged—
At any office of the—
€> Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Q Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
# Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
UNDERWRITTEN BY lAN POTTER & CO.
MW 145.59
something more than classical
structural conceptions and
luck.
Bali Plantations, Ltd:
"[VroTiNG the profits currently
being made by Cnoiseul
and Dylup, interested investors
rapidly oversubscribed the
issue of shares being offered in
Bali Plantations, Ltd., and
underwritten by Wolff Dunlop
and Co., of Sydney ’Change.
The Bali plantation is on
Unea Island, north of New
Britain, and is of 1175 acres.
The title is freehold, and the
soil is described as deep 'vol-
canic. The owner prior to the
flotation was H. T. Coldham,
but some of the copra-plant-
ings date back to the days of
the German occupation of New
Britain.
The plantations produce
copra and cocoa. There are
over 54,000 coconut-palms and
84,000 interplanted cocoa-
trees. (Of the cocoa-trees,
15,000 are 34 to 44 years old,
25,000 are five to six years old,
and 44,000 are mature. Cocoa-
trees begin to bear at three
years, become fully-bearing at
six or seven, and have an eco-
nomic life of 40 years. A
mature tree on Bali' produces
61b. of dry cocoa a year.)
No further planting of coco-
nuts is considered practicable
under normal planting pro-
cedure, but it is estimated that
60,000 additional cocoa-trees
can be put in.
From present plantings an
output of 750 tons of copra is
scheduled for 1958-59, and 120
tons of cocoa.
While copra production is
not expected to show any
great increase, cocoa output is
anticipated to lift to 150 tons,
200 tons and 240 tons over the
next three years respectively.
Cost of production of copra
on Bali is given at £35 a ton
landed at Rabaul. Cost per
ton of interplanted cocoa has
been around £BO, and as more
trees come into production this
is expected to decrease.
Labor is drawn from ad-
jacent villages, with a nucleus
of indentured labor from New
Britain.
Present price being paid for
hot-air-dried copra by the
Copra Marketing Board in
New Guinea is £75 a ton. This
is under the world price, a con-
tribution being made to a
stabilisation fund, the balance
in which at March 31 was
£3,058,046.
About £260 a ton is paid for
cocoa at Rabaul at present.
These prices are quoted after
payment of export-duty £l4
a ton on copra and £5O a ton
on cocoa.
In estimating profits, the pro-
spectus of Bali Plantations
takes copra in at £65 and cocoa
at £260.
Under present fiscal condi-
tions, profit in relation to
capital is expected to rise from
20J p.c. in 1959-60 to 264 p.c.
in 1961-62.
If the export-duty is replaced
by income-tax at 4s. in the £
the rate of profit is forecast at
21.6 p.c. for 1959-60 and 27.7
p.c. for 1961-62.
A dividend of not less than
10 p.c. is expected in these cir-
cumstances.
It is proposed, in all, to issue
400,000 shares of 10s. each, of
which 150,000 are reserved for
New Guinea residents. Price
of the property is £240,000, of
which £190,000 is payable in
cash, and £50,000 will be
represented by a mortgage at
6 p.c. for five years. Valuer
A. R. Richards considers Bali
plantation, “as a single unit,”
the best property in New
Guinea.
The prospectus appears to be
full and fair. It points out that,
like g.ll other commodities,
copra and cocoa are affected
by world prices, that copra is
at present at its highest price
since the war, and allowance
has been made for a drop in
price. Apparently one of the
reasons for the present high
price of copra is the demand
for it in the manufacture of
table margarine.
Directors of the float are Jack
Dunbar-Reid, planter, Kokopo,
New Britain ; A. E. Davis,
solicitor, Wahroonga; H. N.
Green, Rabaul ; A. A. Hopper,
Rabaul, planter and managing-
director of the company ; and
Neville C. Ryrie, Mosman,
sharebroker.
United Uranium, N.L.
r T"'HE first shipment of
uranium - oxide under
United Uranium’s £5-million
contract with the U.K. Atomic
Energy Authority left Aus-
tralia on June 27 last and a
second shipment is expected to
follow on July 28.
Uranium-oxide to a value of
£102,069 was produced during
the four weeks to June 16,
2798 tons of ore being mined
and 2598 tons milled over this
period. Head-values averaged
10.551 b. oxide per ton. Both
the grade of oxide and per-
centage of mill-recovery were
“rather better” than expected,
as was the consumption of
reagents.
The value of total produc-
tion up to June 16 is given
as £136,135.




Home for the Aged
( Registered )
Falls Road,
Wentworth Falls.
Male & Female Guests
Full Board, Share
Room .. .. £4/10/0
Private Room .. £5/10/0
Please Phone or Call
Mrs. Quinn.
Wentworth Falls 236.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO CLEMENT JOSEPH O’CONNOR
late of 929 Anzae Parade Maroubra.—
TAKE NOTICE that JUNE ELINOR
O’CONNOR has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3138 of 1958 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 14th Sep-
tember 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from P. N.
ROACH, Solicitor, of 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUG H A N,
Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Caesar”
There will never be a wholly
satisfactory “Julius Caesar,” be-
cause it is not a wholly satis-
fying play.
In the first place it is built
too much on orations, crowd-
scenes and battles; all of
which, however fine or spec-
tacular they may be in them-
selves, are merely an interrup-
tion in the true business of the
drama, the intimate struggle of
character.
And, more importantly, for
a certain amount of speechi-
fying and derring-do is all
right if the rest is all right, it
is not truly a tragedy. It is a
history ; and a history, fascin-
ating though it may be as such,
is not properly a category of
dramatic art.
Tragedy, said Aristotle, who
was never wrong about the
stage, is “the justification of
scoundrels”—meaning a dis-
play of the motives and the
doom of a man who has done
wrong—and the trouble with
“Julius Caesar” is that Brutus,
upon whom the whole play
turns, is not a scoundrel. He
has not done wrong, but right.
His end is not tragic in
Aristotle’s sense, but pathetic;
so inevitably you miss the pro-
found, disturbing, morbid,
cleansing excitement of Mac-
beth, the man who has done
wrong.
Faced with these difficulties,
what is a producer to do?
From Hugh .Hunt’s produc-
tion at the Elizabethan Theatre,
Sydney, it seems that chiefly
he decided to do the best he
could to enliven —not so much
the oratory, which has to be
left to the actor ; not so much
the crowd-scenes, in which the
people of Rome were hardly
more than a handful of teen-
agers ; but the battle at the
end, which was full of wild
music, queer lighting and
beautiful tableaux.
But picturesque tableaux
and moving music, though they
may add a great deal to difficult
scenes, will never really bring
a play to life. They have noth-
ing to do with the justification
of scoundrels. And (if you
can get the actors to do it) the
real need is to emphasise what
scoundrelism, what depth and
deviousness of character, the
producer can lay his hands on.
First, the whole group: it
is necessary to establish, what
hardly came out in this per-
formance, that all these people
know each other intimately. It
is his own close friends, or at
least intimate acquaintances,
who tempt Brutus; his own
friends or intimate acquaint-
ances who kill Caesar. There
is an element of tragedy in the
fact that both men are so
betrayed and destroyed. Brutus
does feel some guilt.
Next, the individual charac-
ters. Caesar —his sicknesses, his
superstitions, his resoluteness,
his imperiousness, his fear of
Cassius, his affection for
Brutus and his solicitude for
his wife can all be stressed to
make a living character of him.
Peter Owen did much of this
very well up to a point, but in
a stolid, stiffish sort of way.
You did not feel his closeness
to his friends and enemies, nor
the splendor of the man who
had conquered half the world,
nor the subtlety of the man
who wrote the “Commen-
taries.”
. Caesar’s wife she can be
quite ravaged with tenderness,
terror and nightmare, in a
range of emotion beyond what
Neva Carr Glyn portrayed.
Dinah Shearing, who really
hasn’t much to do as Brutus’s
wife because he never has his
promised showdown with her,
might have managed this role
with more intensity.
Antony—you must be able
to see the playboy, the lover
who afterwards luxuriates with
Cleopatra, the friend who is
really moved and frightened
by Caesar’s death and, very
likely, the opportunist who
sees in the assassination his
own chance of advancement.
Gavin Dyer, who played him,
looked the part, spoke clearly
and stylishly, if peculiarly, but
conveyed no particular im-
pression of character.
Cassius —here of course is
the one really useful scoundrel.
He kills Caesar out of envy and
ambition ; he takes bribes ; he
refuses to supply Brutus with
funds ; he is touchy, quarrel-
some and unstable. John
Gielgud played him perfectly
in the film ; Alan Trevor, too
young for the part and more
suited for a Hotspur or a
Prince Hal, caught much of
his fire but little of his devious-
ness.
Brutus nobody, with the
best will in the world, can
make a scoundrel out of him.
The text is too explicit. But
surely he does not need to be
played so resigned, so doomed,
from the very start. Deeply
distressed, agonised, yes; but
also hopeful, because he thinks
the enterprise will succeed,
cheerful because he tells his
friends to be cheerful, and
excited by the prospect of
violence. Ron Haddrick, on the
one note of noble resignation,
played him beautifully; but
other notes would add to the
character.
It is, then, a performance
which does not wring the last
ounce of flesh and blood out
of a play that is admittedly
somewhat marmoreal at best.
Sets and costumes are very
fine indeed ; the production as
a whole smooth, ingenious,
imaginative and enjoyable. It
is just possible, since you
could hardly hear it in the
circle for the coughing, the
shuffling and the weakness of
most of the actors’ voices, that
it would seem much more
alive from the stalls.
❖ ♦> ❖
“The Winter Journey”
This 24-piece song-cycle by
Schubert —the greatest extant
—demands a performer with
the confluent qualities of
technical perfection, first-rate
intellect and faultless judg-
ment. Gerard Souzay, the
French baritone, is such a
singer, as he abundantly proved
when he sang the work at
Sydney Con. and gave Harbor-
siders their greatest feast of
song for many years.
Enormous difficulties face
the singer, as they faced the
composer when he set about
developing the music for these
verses of Wilhelm Muller.
Schubert had to ring the
changes two-dozen times on a
single theme —the despair of a
rejected lover wandering half-
demented through a freezing
countryside. He solved it as
no other composer could have
done, and by means so subtle
as almost to defy analysis. In
some of the songs the mood
is pushed perilously close to
the limit, but Souzay made the
difficulties seem almost non-
existent.
He sings as effortlessly as
other people breathe. He
needed only rarely to draw
upon the reserves of power at
his command ; and when he
did—as in the dramatic utter-
ances of “Retrospect,” “A
Last Hope,” “Stormy Morn-
ing” and “The Inn” —he
achieved a rich resonance. His
head-register notes, taken on
the half-voice in such repose-
ful songs as “Rest,” the
famous “Linden Tree” and
“On the River,” were all
beautifully controlled ; and
when, as often, he had to leap
an octave he invariably landed
flush on the middle of the note.
But it was in the subtle
shifts of light and shade and
the . artistic manipulation of
volume —evoking mood and
emotion as precisely as if he
had used some musical slide-
rule—that Souzay showed his
greatness. A special delight
was his manner of seizing on
any aspect of a song that might
lighten the dark shadows
around it —as, for instance, his
emphasis on the brief rhap-
sodic episodes in “The Post,”
the flashes of brightness in the
opening bars of “Deception”
and in the middle-section of
“Good Night.”
In the wonderful “Organ-
Grinder” —that final song of
a bare 60 bars which has what
is probably the most economi-
cal and apt accompaniment
ever devised —Souzay seemed
to create an image of Schu-
bert’s own tragic life: the


COMPANY MEETING
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & GO., LTD.
ANNUAL* MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
HELD IN MELBOURNE, FRIDAY, 26th JUNE, 1959
CHAIRMAN S ADDRESS
Speaking at the Annual Meeting, Mr. C. Y. SYME, Chairman, said:
As has been stated in the
Directors’ Annual Report, the in-
troduction of the 1958 Victorian
Companies Act resulted in a
number of alterations to the pre-
sentation of our Accounts. A
number of items in the Balance
Sheet and Profit and Loss Account
have been re-grouped and the
amount of some of our provision
accounts has been set out. Be-
cause of these changes it has not
been possible to show in the
Accounts the comparative figure
for the previous year.
I would refer now to the—
Balance Sheet
where the increase in debtors is
the main movement. Lower in-
comes of primary producers in-
creased calls on us for financial
assistance, particularly in the
earlier part of the year and ad-
vances were at a higher level
throughout the year. Since balance
date most of the wool then on hand
has been sold and the total of ad-
vances has been reduced.
The provision for Doubtful
Debts shown in the Balance Sheet
is, we hope, very conservative but
incomes of primary producers fluc-
tuate widely with seasonal con-
ditions and prices, and it is
prudent, therefore, to make liberal
provision for this contingency.
Clients’ balances left at credit
with the Company have diminished
because of their lower incomes.
To finance the foregoing move-
ments we have had to increase our
borrowings in addition to cashing
some of our Commonwealth Gov-
ernment Loan holding at maturity
dates and getting in money we had
placed on deposit.
Merchandise stocks have been re-
duced, the large carry-over of
Woolpacks and Cornsacks having
been absorbed in trading.
During the year we have taken
up shares in Companies formed
With other Woolbrolcers in Albany
and Newcastle to facilitate the
general handling of wool at those
Centres, and the cost is included
in the Balance -Sheet with the total
of Investments in other Companies.
Profit and Loss Account
The continued fall in wool prices
until January also depressed prices
for sheep. To the end of that
month we had sold slightly fewer
sheep at an average price some 21
per cent,, lower than that to the
corresponding .date of the previous
year. For the whole of the year,
as shown in the Directors’ Annual
Report, we sold an increased
number of sheep the average price
being some 19 per cent, lower than
that for 1957-58. Sales of cattle for
the year increased substantially
and the average price was nearly
<> per rent, higher than that for
the previous 12 months. Some of
the increased activity in the cattle
market resulted from exports of
boned meat to the United States
of America where supplies were
below requirements.
Our proportion of wool receipts
was well maintained, but the
quantity on which earnings were
brought into account totalled some
70,000 bales less and was sold at
an average for the year of almost
00 per cent, less than that for the
previous 12 months. There is.
however, a larger carry forward of
wool into the current year.
Profits from the Company’s
Stations were considerably below
the relatively modest figure of the
previous year. Lower wool prices
and a smaller clip were the main
factors although earnings from
sheep sales were also less.
Expenses throughout our various
undertakings have been the sub-
ject of special attention and show
reduction. It is hoped that they
can be kept at a lower level,
though the increase of 15/- per
week in the Basic Wage granted
by the Arbitration Commission,
and which operates from the middle
of this month, will add substan-
tially to our costs.
Despite a saving in expenses and
improved earnings from sales of
stock, the material reduction in
earnings from Woolbroking and
from our Stations and some reduc-
tion in Merchandise earnings
caused our profit to drop to
£358,000. This compares with a
profit of £527,000 in the previous
year.
Wool Market
The wool selling season has been
one of contrasting fortunes and
must be regarded as disappointing.
The improved prices since Easter
will not have any material effect
on returns for the current wool
season as they have come too late.
I
It is expected that final receipts
into Brokers’ Stores will total
4,700,000 bales, being about 8 per
cent, more than last year and
making the second largest clip on
record. The clip as a whole was
below the standard of the preced-
ing season.
The market opened at 10 per
cent, below rates at the close of
the previous season, declined a
further 10 per cent, in October,
and. with minor fluctuations,
reached its lowest point in Janu-
ary this year when the average was
approximately 43d. per lb. greasy.
The season's average (11 months)
of 48.68 d. per lb. is 22 per cent,
lower than that of the previous
one. Estimated total proceeds of
£290,000,000 will be approximately
£47.000.000 or 14 per cent, below
last season’s total.
More sheep are being carried in
many districts and as conditions
have been good in a number of
areas the cut per head is likely to
be greater. Therefore, it is ex-
pected that the forthcoming clip
will be much larger than that of
the current season.
Improving economic conditions
in the United States and Britain,
the strength of the wool industry
in Japan, and increased buying by
Eastern European -countries, have
been factors in the recent improve-
ment in prices and give grounds
for optimism in the future.
Over the season Britain and
Japan increased their purchases
significantly. Western European
countries purchased a serviceable
volume of wool, though France,
Italy and West Germany bought
less than in the previous season.
Particularly in the later stages of
the season Eastern European
countries increased their buying.
It is of interest to note that there
have been moderate shipments of
greasy wool to mainland China.
Previously that country has ac-
quired only tops and processed
wools.
The Season
The season throughout Australia
during the past year has varied
considerably. New South Wales
(with the exception of isolated
pockets), Victoria, South Australia
and the Agricultural districts of
Western Australia enjoyed a very
good season following a dry
Autumn. In Queensland, however,
it was generally only fair with
drought conditions prevailing in
the South West. Central Australia
experienced an extremely dry year
and quite heavy losses of cattle
were reported. Conditions in the
pastoral areas of Western Aus-
tralia have been generally unsatis-
factory except in the East Kimber-
leys, Murchison and Eastern Gold-
fields areas, and these conditions
still obtain.
A promising opening to the new
season can be reported for most
parts of Queensland and New South
Wales, the pastoral areas of South
Australia and the agricultural
areas of Western Australia. Recent
fairly general rains in Central
Australia have given a measure of
relief. The far south west of
Queensland still remains extremely
dry and. although in better con-
dition than a year ago, the
Riverina, Victoria and the agri-
cultural areas of South Australia
are in urgent need of good rain.
Even if this is received in the near
future the prospect of pasture for
the Winter is not good due to cold
weather retarding growth.
A very good to flush season in
the early months of the year in
New South Wales, coupled with
the strong demand for lower grade
beef for the North American
market, created a very strong
enquiry for Store cattle. This
benefited the drought-stricken
areas of Central Australia where
finite substantial numbers were
lifted.
The sheep market reacted to the
recent improvement in the wool
market and values rose appreci-
ably. Reports to date of lambiugs
are extremely good but it seems
that hand feeding will be required
in some areas where there will be
insufficient pasture for the Winter.
The rabbit pest appears to have
been kept under control reasonably
well but kangaroos are reported
in plague proportions in some
areas.
Company’s Own Properties
Seasonal conditions on our own
Station properties have generally
speaking been favorable. A dry
Spring broke with good rains in
October resulting in a satisfactory
lambing.
Heavy Summer rains with some
local Hooding occurred on all but
one of the properties, the excep-
tion being_ one of the smaller hold-
ings where conditions have been
dry since early Summer and are
stiil deteriorating. Early rains are
needed to relieve the position there
but, otherwise, the season is
assured for some time ahead.
Rabbits have been kept under
control but noxious weeds are an
increasing problem.
The coming wool clip should
prove to be better grown and some-
what heavier than last year.
General
The serious decline in wool pro-
ceeds has not caused the disloca-
tion attendant on similar setbacks
in the past—partly because the
consequent reduction in overseas
funds has been largely offset by the
introduction of overseas capital
which, at this juncture, has been
of inestimable benefit to the
country.
Depressed marketing conditions
have stimulated criticism of pro-
motional methods for wool as com-
pared with those used for other
fibres. This criticism is valuable
and the increased attention being
given to the matter should prove
beneficial. Scientific research is
continuing and much valuable
work has been done by the Com-
monwealth Scientific and Industrial
Research Organisation.
Considerable criticism has also
been directed at the system of
marketing wool. A floor price re-
serve scheme has been advocated
in some quarters but the dangers
inherent in such a scheme are not
easy to overcome and as yet a
generally acceptable alternative to
the Auction System as now con-
ducted has not presented itself.
With the potential for betterment
of living standards in Asian
countries and the large annual in-
crease in world population, we have
(Continued on next page )


empty money-cup, the snarl-
ing dogs, the _ world’s icy
indifference.
Throughout the exacting
programme, Dalton Baldwin’s
collaboration at the piano was
of the highest order.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“The Diamond Horseshoe”
“Young beauties force our
love, and that’s a rape.”
If John Donne had been a
Sydney Tivoli-goer, he might
have had some Sabrina in mind
there ; but with
No spring or summer beauty has
such grace
As I have seen in one autumnal
face
he was clearly thinking of Will
Mahoney, at any rate as to the
grace: Will Mahoney’s beauty
is another matter; but then,
he's so clean—so clean, in fact,
that you’d be a bit disappointed
if it weren’t for the two new
English comics, Gordon and
Colville.
But you see how time and
experience can give grace to
a comedian when the curtain
goes up on a stage all pink
for “Apple Blossom Time,”
and the ballet dances on its
toes, and Gordon and Colville
swing across the backdrop bn
wires, riding broomsticks,
chairs and rockets, and then
Will Mahoney enters in white
tutu, wearing ballet-slippers
with 2ft. soles; or when he
takes an outsize pair of tailor’s
shears to the train of Lorraine
Bransgrove while she sings—
and very well, too—an operatic
aria ; or when he does a dance-
duet, playing bells strapped to
ankles and wrists, with Margo
Glancy ; or when he sits on
his xylophone, changing his
shoes so that he can play it
with his feet—his monologue
then is the utmost in natural-
ness and style.
The other peak of the show,
the Allen Bros, and June, an
adagio dance-team, got their
marks for anything but grace.
They dive into a grand piano ;
the beautiful young lady is
dropped from a whirl so that
she twists on her belly on the
floor like a top ; and she has an
engaging way of hauling her
long satin ball-gown up to her
ears, the better to ride on her
partners’ shoulders.
Rudy Horn, mounted on a
one-wheel cycle, tossing six
pairs of cups and saucers from
his foot to his head and follow-
ing them with a teaspoon and
sugar, was clearly more than
ordinarily clever. Maybe the
thought-reading Margoes were,
too ; but they didn’t make it
quite clear what they were try-
ing to do.
The four Gibson Girls, sing-
ing and playing accordions,
covered schmaltz and hotcha
with roguish—or is it rouge-ish?
—charm ; and Margo Glancy,
whirling tassels both before
and after her vital statistics,
separately and together, in
similar and in contrary motion,
was a marvel of co-ordination,
if you wanted to look at it
that way which would be
like admiring a fan-dancer's
fans, and unworthy of a
reg’lar guy.
The main achievement in the
big groupings apart from
keeping so sprightly a lot of
young ladies in such brilliant
order, or sustaining those
statuesque personifications of
the Milky Way—-is to take the
boredom out of the old song-
settings.
All in all, this entertainment,
with each section named after
a famous American joint of
rejoicing, is as close to the
lightness, speed and finish of
good French variety as the
Tiv. has managed to get.
Malko and Cochereau
A first Australian perform-
ance of Igor Stravinsky’s
“CEdipus Rex” was the chief
offering at the Sydney sub-
scription-concert last week, with
Nicolai Malko conducting
orchestra and choir, narrator
and soloists.
Described as an “opera-
oratorio,” the work falls some-
where between the two forms;
but the spirit of the Sophocles
tragedy does emerge strongly.
The writing for voices is not
what singers would call “grate-
ful.” It is sinewy, terse and
direct, with the accent more
on drama and declamation than
on melody. The orchestral
score, however, is rich, though
not so luxurious as some of
Stravinsky’s earlier works ; and
at times it clearly prefigures
his later religious influences.
The CEdipus of the night was
William Herbert, who brought
to the role a clear, ringing
tenor projected with what was,
for him, an almost aggressive
forthrightness. Phyllis Rogers,
as Jocasta, used her soprano
with power, judgment and ease;
but Ronal Jackson’s baritone
was barely adequate against
the orchestral masses, and in
the other solo parts tenor Ray-
mond Macdonald and bass-
baritone Raymond Beatty only
occasionally shone.
The Police Choir, though
excellently disciplined, nicely
balanced and clean in attack,
was only partly successful in
working-out its part in the
tragedy. Malko always had the
orchestra under tight rein,
driving it along with vigor and
imagination.
Pierre Cochereau, the Notre
Dame organist, was soloist in a
concerto by Yves de la Casi-
niere which was scored for
orchestra only. The orchestra-
tion, though somewhat thin,
was sufficient to allow Coche-
reau to bring-off some extra-
ordinarily fertile improvisa-
tion.
confidence in the future of wool but
it is necessary to continue and in-
tensify research to improve even
more the techniques which have
been developed.
Last year I pointed out that,
owing to the severe reduction in
graziers’ incomes and the incidence
of high taxation commitments, we
would be called upon to assist
woolgrowers financially to a much
larger extent and our Balance Sheet
as at March last confirms this.
Since the commencement of the cur-
rent Wool Season, contrary to our
experience in the previous period,
the total of advances has been
decreasing. It is of interest to
note that advances by Pastoral
Finance Companies in Australia
totalled £88.5 million in March,
1958. increased to £101.6 million
in September and were £93.8 million
in March this year. It seems that
primary producers have been ad-
justing expenditure to their lower
incomes but probably this is due
in part to a deferment of improve-
ment work. It is to be hoped that
conditions this year will enable
such work to be continued as,
apart from the resultant loss of
production, interruptions to a de-
velopment programme are gener-
ally very wasteful.
Stockholders will be pleased to
know that results to date in the
current year have been very much
better than those for the corre-
sponding period last year. In addi-
tion to the benefit arising from
the greater carry forward of wool
there lias been greater activity in
our industry and prices for wool
and stock are at higher levels.
These better prospects have given
encouragement to the Staff who
have had to overcome many diffi-
culties owing to the readjustments
made in the past year. They have
worked well and the Board wishes
to thank them for their efforts.
Artbursts
Abstracts
Sydney art for the week is
abstract and dilapidated. At
the Clune Galleries, Peter
Kaiser incorporates useful
pieces of string, old sacks and
tinfoil in the most ambitious
of his oils ; and at the Mac-
quarie Galleries are the curious
doodlings of lan Fairw'eather
on bits of cardboard, at least
one of which, “Ronda,” is
cracked and torn, as so many
of his paintings have been in
the past.
But both artists have their
rewarding moments. Kaiser’s
gouaches are charming, and his
oils, when free from the worst
excesses of tachism and action-
painting, have some of the
delicately decorative effects of
Chinese scrolls or screens—
though'without the fine obser-
vation and feeling for life that
are the final excellence of his
exemplars. Fairweather’s pleas-
ant chalky colors and half-
revealed figures take shape as
striking designs, sometimes
purely abstract, sometimes like
a primitive enlargement of the
angels of Blake or Eric Gill.
Both, essentially, are taking
art right down to the bottom
and then bringing it back ; but
only so far back as the limited
approaches of abstraction and
primitivism will let them.
♦l* *■> ❖
Albury Prize
Entries for the 13th (cen-
tenary year) Albury Art Prize
close on September 25, 1959.
Chief prizes, out of a total of
£282, are £lOO for an oil and
50gns. for a watercolor.
Films
“The Doctor’s Dilemma”
Hr’ is Shaw almost ideally
transposed to the screen —cut
only as far as need be to
compass the play into screen-
time limits ; the best of the
dialogue retained, and only
one minor character elimi-
nated.
Shaw called this play a
tragedy ; but tragedy in the
death from consumption of the
brilliant but unscruplous
young painter Dubedat —irm
pinges only briefly on the
dominant comedy, which is
a pungent satire on knightly
doctors w'ith fashionable prac-
tices and few scruples about
squeezing money out of
wealthy patients.
The production, suave and
polished, is by Anatole de
Grunwald. who also wrote the
screenplay ; and the sets
admirably capture the
Edwardian atmosphere.
But the film's strength lies
in the casting, which it would
seem almost impossible to
improve on. Take, for
instance, the role of Sir Ralph
Bloomfield Bonnington. In his
usual meticulous description
of his characters, Shaw made
8.8. “tall, with a slender egg-
shaped head,” didactic, full of
his self-importance, always
(Continued on page 43)


Does your WILL i still express your intentions?
Hfog
COMPANY LID.
(oKerporoted In Victoria ia 1(71
TR60.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES
DIRECTORS:
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect
the intentions expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you
consult your solicitor and have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions^
At the same time,'Consider the advantages of appointing The Trustees
Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains
for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate charge, the services of a company
with over three-quarters of a century’s specialised experience in the
Administration of Estates.
A Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
A Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
A Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £976,220.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); J.
Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E.
T. L. Webb.
Cuming Stewart;
M. Campbell;
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C.
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B.
Buchanan, C.8.E., D.S.O.
(Chairman); Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
Heffer; Alan G. Potter; Rear Admiral
K.8.E..
H. J.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
'T'he outturn of raw sugar from C.S.R.’s
12 sugar-mills reached 500,000 tons
for the first time last term, and, while
the board regarded raw-sugar earnings
as “rather disappointing” in relation to
the record production, the' “generally
satisfactory results ’ obtained from most
of the co.’s various activities combined
to push net earnings to an all-time high.
But , for weakness in world sugar-
markets, earnings would have climbed
even higher, although it is doubtful
whether shareholders would have col-
lected any more in divs. as a result. In
any event, the expected lift in the div.-
rate turned-up as a 4 p.c. addition, the
84 p.c. div. being paid on holdings
fattened by a one-for-three bonus-issue
in the previous term.
Long established as one of Australia’s
industrial giants (a status to which it
graduated during a colorful youth),
C.S.R. was formed in 1855 to take-over
the Australasian Sugar Co. which had
been founded, in Sydney, some 13 years
earlier. The co. refines and, as Govern-
ment appointee, markets alt but a frac-
tion of the Australian sugar output.
C.S.R. is also the sole refiner of sugar
in New Zealand and owns all of Fiji’s
five sugar-mills, seven of Australia’s 34
mills (the seven handling approximately
20 p.c. of all localiy-grown cane), two
general-cargo vessels, and distilleries in
Melbourne and Sydney, where the co.
produces rum, methylated spirit and
numerous other products.
A large building - materials division
manufactures wall - board, asbestos-
cement products, floor- and ceiling-tiles,
building-plaster, etc., while the 60 p.c.-
owned C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. turns out
an extensive range of industrial and
pharmaceutical chemicals. The activities
of these big and growing concerns
include, but stretch well beyond, the
utilisation of by-products from the sugar
industry. Another offshoot, Australian
Blue Asbestos, Ltd., mines asbestos at
Wittenoom (W.A.).
Retained earnings, disclosed and other-
wise, have long been a major source of
funds, a one-for-five offering, at a 35
p.c. premium, in 1950 bringing-in the
only fresh share-capital raised in the
last years. Although bonus-issues
were a regular event early in the century,
the 1957 handout was the first of its
kind since 1934, and incidentally absorbed
little more than a third of the £l3-million
of reserves uncovered at the time
through a revaluation of Fijian plant and
property and modest “upward adjust-
ments” to Australian fixed assets. The
two issues lifted the all-ord. capital to
£18,720,000, the div.-rate dropping from
10 p.c. to 8 p.c. after the bonus-issue.
At 1,371,000 tons, Australian produc-
tion of raw sugar last season was the
highest ever, C.S.R. itself producing
record quantities of sugar in each of
the three areas (Qld., N.S.W. and Fiji)
in which the co.’s mills are located: —<
Season
1956. 1957. 1958.
Australia .. .. 233,200 275,200 301,900
Fiji 134,500 196,100 198,300
Total .. .. 367,700 471,300 500,200
Flowever, a sharp fall in open-market
prices for sugar (applying to over a
quarter of all locally-produced raws)
prevented earnings from feeling the
benefit of the bigger output. The drop
in prices was reflected by a reduction
of £3 Is. 10d., to £46 3s. 2d. a ton
(94 n.t.), in the overall average price
per ton for Queensland raws acquired
for home-consumption, export under the
British Commonwealth Sugar Agreement
and sale on free world-markets.
Sales of sugar, syrups, etc., from
C.S.R.’s Australian refineries slipped by
11,000 tons to 499,000 tons, the Auck-
land (N.Z.) refinery showing a small
(2 p.c.) gain in its sales of sugar-products
(106,000 tons).
A further rise in the turnover of the
two distilleries, together with a 10 p.c.
(value) improvement in sales of building-
materials, a steadily-growing demand for
Westfalian asbestos and continued pro-
gress by C.S.R. Chemicals all helped to
round-off another successful year.
The parent co.’s income from all
sources averaged £111,672,000 p.a. over
the three years to March, 1958, last
term’s effort bringing the three-yearly
average (as much as the co. is prepared
to reveal) up to £119,937,000. Unfortu-
nately the board doesn’t see fit to dis-
close the size of the tax-provision or
to publish a consolidation of group
accounts, this reticence extending to the
published p.-and-l. account, which is
little more than a bald re-statement of
net profit as claimed in the directors’
report.
An aggregation of trading - profits
from various sources and divs. from sub-
sidiary and outside investments (the
latter conservatively valued in the books
at £961,419), net profit for the year to
March 31 last was reckoned at £2,539,284,
after providing £2,617,370 (up £240,743)
for depreciation and replacement of
fixed assets:
Year Replace-
Ended ment, etc.,
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
9 p.c.
1954 .. 1,417,943 1,263,600 6,559,144 12,807,355
12 p.c,
1955 .." 1,575,901 1,684,800 6,450,245 13,949,946
10 p.c.
1956 .. 1,679,636 1,404,000 6,725,881 15,209,992
Profit, sale vessel, pineapple cannery,
etc., <£80,152 .. .. 6,806,033
1957 .. 1,971,858 1,404,000 7,373,301 16,380,751
Surplus on revaluation fixed assets, in-
cluding transfers from depreciation
replacement reserve (£5,305,361),
£18,260,789 .. ..20,634,180 11,075,390
Reserves capitalised,
£4,680,000 .. ..15,954,180
8 p.c-.
1958 .. 2,335,058 1,497,600 16,791,038 13,452,017
Unexplained addition,
£55,637 .. .. 16,847,275
SJ p.c.
1959 .. 2,539,284 1,591,200 17.795,359 15,539,723
Up £204,226 on the previous term’s
showing, the record profit represented a
return of 13.5 p.c. on share-capital, as
against J 2.5 p.c. in 1958, covering the


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Batmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
p.c. div. (up £93,600) with £948,084
to spare.
Responsible for the seasonal financing
of the Australian sugar crop, C.S.R.
coped with a big task in last season’s
bumper harvest. An overdraft of
£1,892,664 was run-up in the process,
and holdings of cash, etc., cut by
£1,570,283, these movements being well
covered by a £4,636,812 jump in book-
debts and a £1,121,450 increase in
stocks:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £14.040,000 £18,720,000 £18,720,000
Reserves . . 7,373,391 16,791,638 17,795,359
Depreciation re-
serves - .. 16,380,751 13,452,017 15,539,723
Creditors, etc. 14,715,474 15,618,721 16,911,026
Overdraft .. 725,794 1,892,664
Debentures .. 7,000,000 7,000,000 7,000,000
Employee de-
bentures .. 136,870 141,060 142,610
Final div. .. 702,000 748,800 842,400
£61,074,280 £72,472,236 £78,843,782
Refineries, mills,
etc 32,720,174 42,824,990 44,565,974
Ships .. .. 1,134,568 1,304,550 1,181,774
Distilleries .. 1,249,385 1,630,797 1,789,724
Premises . . 392,576 423,818 741,644
Shares subsids. 3,850,066 3,901,664 3,934,070
Stocks - . . 13,835,479 12,602,717 13,724,167
Book debts, etc. 7,101,987 7,280,853 11,917,665
Investments .. 762,128 905,219 961,419
Cash and de-
posits . . 27,917 1,597,628 27,345
£61,074,280 £72,472,236 £78,843,782
The investment in fixed assets (which
the accounts, not very helpfully, declare
to be shown at “book-value”) rose by
£2,094,961, a large part of the indicated
outlay going into the mills and refineries.
Provision for depreciation is lumped
together with reserve for plant-replace-
ment to give a total figure of £15,539,723.
Of the £7,000,000 of 5 p.c. debenture-
money, £4,000,000 is due for redemption
in 1962, and the balance in 1963, with
provision for repayment, at the co.’s
option, during 1959-62 and 1960-63,
respectively. | It seems possible that more
than one form of fund-raising will be
employed by the co. to assist in financing
these repayments.
Another bumper crop of cane is avail-
able for crushing during the season just
commencing, but, influenced by con-
tinued weakness in world sugar-markets
and a heavy carryover of raws from
last season, production-quotas could
leave over 1,400,000 tons of Australian
cane unharvested. Cuba’s last - minute
decision to ratify the new International
Sugar Agreement hasn’t, as yet, brought
any marked strengthening of open-market
prices and, at this stage, a noticeable
decline in the return from Australian
and, probably, Fijian sugar-milling seems
inevitable.
On the brighter side, the negotiated
price for 1959, under the British Com-
monwealth Agreement, has been in-
creased by £stg.l ss. 4d. to £stg.4s 2s.
a ton, the higher price covering around
60 p.c. of the Fijian and 25 p.c. of the
Australian “quota-production.”
While there appears to be little imme-
diate scope for expansion of C.S.R.’s
sugar-milling and -refining activities, the
co.’s building - material, chemical and
other interests continue to grow. Current
expansion plans include the erection of
a £2,000,000 hardboard-factory in Vic-
toria and the participation of C.S.R.
Chemicals, in association with Dow
Chemical Co. of U.S., in the big petro-
chemicals project centred around
Vacuum Oil’s Altona (Vic.) refinery.
Further small lifts in the div.-rate
seem likely over the next few years and
the more difficult conditions at present
confronting the sugar industry have had
little effect on sharemarket support for
the co.’s £2O ords. The board has indi-
cated that the next interim div. will be
at the rate of 8i p.c. p.a., and on this
basis, the scrip would return a modest
£3 Is. sd. p.c. at last week’s price of
£55 7s. 6d., or £3 ss. Id. p.c. from a
9 p.c. distribution. Net tangible cover
at March 31 last was £39 (parent's
accounts only), the inclusion of deprecia-
tion and replacement reserve with other
leserves raising the cover to £55 12s. 3d.
\ 7
James Hardie Asbestos, Ltd.
A member of the successful and well-
handled Hardie group, James Hardie
Asbestos, Ltd., can boast an impressive
pile of reserves, a steadily expanding
turnover, and a particularly well-covered
div.-rate this promising combination
having the backing of the attractive in-
vestment record built-up by the co. in
the eight years since its scrip was first
offered to the public.
Registered in Sydney, James Hardie
Asbestos developed from an importing-
business established in 1888 and now
ranks as one of the largest manufac-
turers of asbestos-cement products in
Australia.
The building-trades are among the
co.’s biggest customers, the variety of
asbestos-cement lines turned-out at sub-
sidiary plants (in all mainland States
and New Zealand) including fiat and
corrugated sheets, guttering, downpipe,
electrical conduit, high-pressure water-
pipes, etc., as well as automotive brake-
linings and clutch-facings. A portion of
the group’s asbestos requirements comes
from an asbestos-mining offshoot work-
ing at Baryulgil in N.S.W.
Following a period of rapid expansion,
financed, largely, by retained earnings
and involving the erection of several new
pipe and brake-lining factories, the
parfent co. made a successful bid late
last year for the share-capital of Better
Brakes Holdings, Ltd. As a well-
established specialist in the servicing of
automotive brakes, the Sydney-based
Better Brakes should fit neatly into the
group and provide an assured outlet for
replacement linings.
Making use of the sharemarket pre-
mium attaching to its scrip, James
Hardie Asbestos was able to arrange the
deal on reasonably favorable terms,
offering ords. to a par-value of £183,333
and £27,500 in cash for the £275,000
paid capital of the smaller co. Full
acceptance of the offer will raise Hardie’s
one-class capital to £2,180,833.
On' the higher capital, an unchanged
10 p.c. div.-rate would call for less than
half of last term’s net profit, to which,
of course, Better Brakes contributed
nothing.
Shareholders have been treated to two
bonus-issues since the scrip was listed
(the only cash issues have been to the
staff), the more recent, and larger, gift
being a one-for-two affair in 1955.
Raised from 8 p.c. to p.c. in 1954,
the div.-rate reached 15 p.c. in the fol-
lowing year, before dropping back to
10 p.c. after the second bonus-issue.
The building and allied trades have
found business- more plentiful, on the
whole, over the past 12 months, and,
despite keen competition, the group was
able to push turnover still further ahead
last term (to March 31 for the parent
and two principal subsidiaries). Higher
costs appear to have made-off with part
of this (undisclosed) gain—although earn-
ings before tax, depreciation and staff-
fund payments advanced by £30,704 to
£1,474,678 but a bigger depreciation
provision (up £75,372 at £389,643) was
largely responsible for the slip in net
earnings, down £53,966 at £560,477.
Equal to 28 p.c. on paid capital (30.7
p.c. in 1958), the lower profit was cal-
culated after sending £82,356 (up
£29,670) to staff-funds and providing
£442,202 (down £20,372) for tax, the tax-
provision being appropriate to a net
profit at least 25 p.c. higher than that
shown. Overprovisions for tax in earlier
years, totalling, in all, £lOO,OOO, were
written-back during the year:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Mar. To Re- Re-
-31, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
Reserves appear on acquisitions of
assets, £0913 1,848,212
Added reserves, £78,572 .. •• 1,926,784
1954. .301,777 124 p.c. =143,750 158,027 2,084,811
Reserves capitalised, £114,917.. .. 1,969,894
Added reserves, £100,046 .. .. 2,069,940
1955. .438,249 15 p.c. =189,750 248,499 2,318,439
Assets revalued, £728,822 .. .. 3,047,261
Reserves capitalised, £632,500 .. 2,414,761
Reduction in reserves, £3244 .. 2,411,517
1956. .359,029 10 p.c. =189,750 169,279 2,580,796
Added reserves on acquisition of sub-
sidiary, etc-., £117,705 .. .. 2,698,501
Additions, sinking fund, £3959 .. 2,702,460
1957. .337,110 10 p.c. =197,250 139,860 2,842,320
To depreciation provision, £23,350.. 2,818,970
1958. 10 p.c. =199,750 414,693. 3,233,663
Tax overprovided, £lOO,OOO .. 3,333,663
Revaluation property, etc. £42,308 3,375,971
1959. .560,477 10 p.c. =199,750 360,727 3,736,698
* Subject to goodwill, £98,449 at 31/3/’59.
In the published accounts a £175,000
(down £75,000) transfer to plant-replace-
' ment reserve is treated as a charge
against earnings, to give a net profit of
£385,477, or £21,034 higher than the
comparable figure for the previous term.
Very heavy provisions for depreciation


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDITH MAY ARMITT late of
Orange.—T AK E NOTICE that
FREDERICK GORDON ARMITT has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1123
of 19.19 against you, EDITH MAY
ARMITT on the ground of your deser-
tion for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 7th day of September 1959 and
obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. SHAW -MC-
DONALD & CO., Solicitors, 11c Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Telegraphic 8c Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
s3^
ASSURE ac/equate/y with the
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Qld., 1895)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY
> Be sure
you'll have
MONEY
WHEN YOU
NEED IT
A safe and profitable
INVESTMENT
p.a
o
FOR 3 YEARS AND OVER
9% for 2 years 8% for 1 year
Guaranteed by
an Independent
Insurance Company
who issue a separate indemnity policy direct to the
depositor, covering principal and interest.
9 Your money is guaranteed by an independent
Insurance Company who, if necessary, are liable to
repay your principal and interest.
9 Interest is paid quarterly.
9 £5OO accrues to £1,023 in 1\ years.
This outstanding investment is again available with
Manufacturers'
(N.S.W.) FINANCE COMPANY
2nd Floor, Northern House, 13/15 O'Connell St;, Sydney.
Telephone BW 2661 (10 lines). M|9
POST THIS COUPON-
Manufacturers' (N.S.W.) Finance Company,
i Box 4790, 6.P.0., Sydney, for detailed brochure. i
■ YOUR NAME I
[ YOUR ADDRESS 1
B. 8/7/’59
were raised prior to the 1958
term, during which a plant-
replacement reserve was
brought into the accounts.
With the aid of a high level
of building-activity, the earn-
ings of Better Brakes and the
output of three new pipe-fact-
ories, the group should be able
to put-up an even better show-
ing in the current year.
Covering completion of the
new pressure-pipe plants (in
Brisbane, Melbourne and
Auckland), last term’s capital-
outlay exceeded the deprecia-
tion provision, etc., by
£817,021, a further £42,309
coming into the books on the
revaluation of property held
by one of the subsidiaries:
Consolidated Balance-sheet. •
1958. J 959.
Paid capital .. £1,997,500 £1,997,500
Reserves .. 3,233,603 3,736,698
Mortgage .. 491,250 467,100
Overdraft . . 231,581 605,254
Creditors, etc... 1,263,656 1,374,614
Tax provision .. 965,830 854,059
•Suspense . . 50,903
Final dividend 99,875 99,875
£8,283,355 £9,186,003
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. 4,073,438 4,932,768
Shares .. 206,119 259,632
Stocks . . 2,371,195 2,611,729
Debtors .. 1,397,672 1,202,532
Cash, bonds .. 87,930 80,893
Suspense .. 48,552 —-
Goodwill .. 98,449 98,449
£8,283,355 £9,186,003
The heavy capital-expenditure
sent the group to the bank for
an extra £373,673, and, accept-
ing the big tax-provision at
face-value, left working-capital
looking a little thin at £921,007
(down £329,240). There was
an additional £110,958 owing
to creditors at the end of the
year, while book-debts were
down by £195,140 and stocks
£240,534 heavier at £2,611,729.
A sound stock, offering good
prospects of income- and
Capital-gains, the 20s. ords. in
James Hardie Asbestos promise
more than the meagre £3 2s.
6d. p.c. which they would
return from a 10 p.c. div. at
last week’s price of 645. Still,
as an income-producer, the
scrip would need to carry a
16 p.c. div. (or its equivalent)
to yield 5 p.c. at this price.
At March 31 last there was
565. sd. in net tangibles for
every £ of share-capital paid-
up at that date.
Gordon & Gotch (A/asia)
Tn 1853, at the height of the
Victorian gold-rush, John
Steeply Gotch made his way
to the diggings at Fryer’s
Creek, near Castlemaine, but
found little of the precious
metal. He retreated to Mel-
bourne, and there, with a cold
night (weather hasn’t changed)
approaching, and no place to
stay —with only a proverbial
shilling in his pocket—he made
the acquaintance of a Scots-
man, Alexander Gordon, who
owned a newspaper-stall some-
where near the present-day
intersection of Market Street
and Collins. Street.
Gordon gave him a bed and
a job selling newspapers —the
bed was under the stall-counter
—and a few weeks later offered
him a partnership in the
business.
It is inconceivable that the
two partners could have
remotely envisaged how, abd
to what extent, arising from
that chance meeting, in little
more than the space of a hun-
dred years, their tiny enterprise
would grow.
Today, a direct descendant
of the old newspaper-stall of
those colorful days, Gordon
and Gotch has become by far
the largest wholesale news-
agent, bookseller and stationer
in Australia. Branches have
been established in all State
capitals and in Townsville and
Launceston. A subsidiary co.
operates in New Zealand, with
houses in Wellington, Auck-
land, Dunedin and Christ-
church. G. and G. distribute a
host of local and imported
publications (magazines, news-
papers, books, etc.) throughout
Australia and N.Z. as well as
supplying export markets in
South-east Asia. In addition,
the co. acts as an advertising-
agent, conducts a number of
railway bookstalls in Sydney


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. E. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Kite Building,
207 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
RALPH W. KING & WILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-2-3
406 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
and Brisbane, and holds valu-
able distributing-rights for
paper, printing-machinery and
printers’ requisites.
To comply with the provi-
sions of the new Victorian
Companies Act, G. and G.
presented annual accounts for
last term in consolidated form.
The N.Z. subsidiary was
included, and the figures relat-
ing thereto assimilated with
those of the Australian parent
at the value attaching to them
as measured in N.Z. currency.
That is, no account has been
taken of the variance between
N.Z. and Australian currencies
for the purpose of consoli-
dation.
Parent and subsidiaries
showed a combined profit of
£347,251, which is less by
£42,633 than the record results
of the previous year:
Year Parent Only.
Ended Net — N Re-
Mch., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves.
8 p.c. 221 p.-fc.
£ £ £ £
’53.. 182,579 8000 146,250 721,519
From stock res. £275,000 996,519
From bad debts reserve,
£43,000 1,039,519
From tax reserve, £56,263 1,095,782
Revaluation res., £325,000 1,420,782
25 p.c.
’54.. 299,245 .8000 162,500 1,549,527
From provisions, £10,883 1,560,410
Res. capitalised, £325,000 1,235,410
18£ p.c.
’55..310,661 8000 238,244 1,299,827
’56..339,972 8000 235,250 1,393,518
Tax overprovided, £5206.. 1,398,754
’57..331,029 8000 238,250 1,483,533
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
Profit sale of plant, £7448 1,490,981
Added on consolidation,
£535,812 .. .. 2.026,793
19.16 p.c.
’58..389,884 .8000 249,080 2,159,597
Profit sale of plant,
£11,396 .. .. 2,170,993
Unexpl’d addition, £14.844 2,185,837
20 p.c.
’59.. 347,251 800 Q 259,910 2,265,178
* The figures of the New Zealand Co.
have been included in New Zealand
currency.
Profit was ascertained after
providing for taxation £331,733
(up £34,741), and writing-off
depreciation £64,012 (up
£12,343).
In his address, last month,
the chairman, by way of
explanation, said that sales
were down, and attributed their
decline to the fall in national
revenue from exports of wool,
metals, etc., and to the very
considerable effect of tele-
vision in Melbourne and
Sydney. He drew attention,
too, to the increase in costs
incurred in the removal to the
new warehouses in Sydney and
Launceston. He went on to
say that prospects generally
had improved since the close
of the trading-year, but added,
conservatively, that an early
return to the high profits of
1957-58 wouid take some time
to achieve. There has been an
easing of import-restrictions
in N.Z. over the last few
months. The N.Z. subsidiary
should as a result increase its
contributions to the group’s
profit this year.
Although profits fell, the
div.-rate at 20 p.c. was higher
than last year. In 1955, fol-
lowing on the par and bonus
issues of the previous term, the
rate fell from 25 p.c. to
18| p.c., remaining at that level
until 1958, when it rose to
19 1/6 p.c. Shareholders can
reasonably expect a continu-
ance of this slow trend to-
wards increased divs., and if
sound finances, substantial
reserves and robust earning-
rates are a guide, they can
expect not only these but
perhaps other gains. The
board’s policy is, however,
somewhat different to that dis-
played by the generous
Alexander Gordon to down-
and-out Gotch, and present-
day shareholders may have to
bide the long-term before their
proprietorship is increased.
The earning-rate on ord.
capital (after allowing the
£BOOO due pref. shareholders),
prior to consolidation, was
26.1 p.c. in ’56 and 24.8 p.c.
in ’57, and, after consolidation,
rose to 29.4 p.c. in ’5B (the
record year), and then dipped
back to 26.1 p.c. last term.
Movements in working-
capital are fairly extensive, if
measured absolutely, but if
viewed in relation to the
whole of the current assets and
liabilities' they are quickly seen
as of minor significance only:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1938. 1939.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 1,299,549 1,299,549
Reserves . . 2,159,597 2,205,178
Minority interest 25,724 26,302
Mortgage . . 271,200 241,200
Creditors .. 1,110,941 1,135,799
Tax provision . . 514,893 627,331
Final divs. .. 133,955 133,955
£5,615,859 £5,829,374
Freeholds ' 1,918,635 1,544,724
Plant, etc. .. 258,390 288,045
Investments .. 250 250
Stock .. 1.669,559 1,747,766
Book debts .. 1,662,136 1,633,459
Cash, etc. .. 106,889 314,530
£5,615,859 £5,829,374
Working-capital itself rose
to £1,798,670 (an increase of
£119,875 against 1958). Stocks
in hand and cash holdings were
higher than in the preceding
term (up £78,207 and £207,641
respectively). Book-debts were
lower at £1,633,459 (down
£28,677). Creditors increased
by £24,858, to stand at
£1,135,799, and tax-provision
leaped up to £627,331 (higher
by £112,438).
All new building operations
in Australia were completed.
The Brisbane building in
Adelaide Street and' the Sydney
building in Barrack Street were
sold for satisfactory prices.
Construction of a new ware-
house in N.Z.’s Christchurch
was commenced, and it is
hoped that it will be finished
before the close of the current
year. Reflecting these develop-
ments, freeholds are now
shown in the books at
£1,844,724 (£1,918,635 in ’5B),
and plant is recorded at
£288,645 (last year £258,390).
The then already substantial
reserves were to last term
by profits (£11,396) from the
sale during the year of plant
and by £79,341 retained from
profits after distribution of the
divs. Also by £14,844 not
explained in the accounts.
The prefs. and ords., both of
ss. denomination, rank equally
for return of capital and at
balance-date had a net tangible
asset backing of 13s. Id. The
ords. recently sold on the share-
market at 225. 3d. to yield 4.5
p.c. from a 20 p.c. div.
Allan and Stark Notes
nro finance a new drive-in
shopping-centre at Coor-
■ paroo, Brisbane retailer Allan
and Stark is capitalising on the
popularity of the convertible-
note issues.
Following the success of the
Chermside drive-in centre,
Allan and Stark bought land
on the south side with a view
to establishing another branch.
Since then speculation as to
the manner in which the
finance would be raised has
caused the market to fluctuate
between 355. and 40s. 6d. for
the £1 ordinary shares.
The notes will be allotted
to shareholders in the propor-
tion of two notes for every five
shares held on August 10.
Interest will be paid at the
rate of 8 p.c. and the notes will
mature by conversion into
fully-paid ordinary shares on
the basis of four shares for
every five notes held. One-half
of the shares will be allotted
after ten years ; the remainder
after fifteen years.
Provided the shares retain
their present market value of
385., the redemption yield is
5.6 p.c. The company is evi-
dently not prepared to hand
out any plums to shareholders
at 4his stage.
The issue will be under-
written by two members of the
Brisbane Stock Exchange.
There will be no trading in
rights.
New Merloo Gold Mines
Shareholders in New Mer-
loo Gold Mines, N.L.,
have approved the board’s
recommendations regarding the
reconstruction of the co.
Negotiations with National
Lead Co. of U.S.A. are con-
tinuing in order to overcome
legal and other difficulties
affecting the sale of that co.’s
holding in New Merloo.
The proposed reconstruction
will involve the formation of
a new co., T.C. Gold, N.L., to
take over the assets and liabili-
ties of New Merloo (including
its gold leases on the Tennant
Creek, N.T., field) in exchange
for 104,125 f.-p. shares of
2s. 6d each.
T.C. Gold will also offer
2,082,500 2s. 6d. shares to New
Merloo shareholders, the scrip
to be credited as paid to Is. on
receipt of 6d. in call- and
application-monies.
Peko Mines, N.L.
There has been a quickening
of interest in th's Tennant
Creek stock, not because of its
copper-mine, but because of
the potential value of the
Orlando and other gold-bear-
ing leases which are 23 miles
west of the Peko Mine.
News from the field is that
the co. is making a thorough
job of its three-compartment
shaft, to open up at 200 ft.,
400 ft. and 600 ft.
Observers should not expect
too much at the 200 ft. horizon,
because all the interesting
diamond-drilling results were
obtained well below that level,
chiefly between 400 ft. and
600 ft., according to the Chair-
man’s report at the annual
meeting.


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. - Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED
NOTES
With principal and interest
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED
by General Motors acceptance Corporation, New York
2 YEARS
I YEAR
9 MONTHS OR 270 to 360 days
6 MONTHS OR 180 to 269 days
3 MONTHS OR 90 to 179 days
I MONTH OR 30 to 89 days
... 6% per annum
... per annum*
... 4f% per annum
... per annum
... 3|% per annum
... 3£% per annum
Subject to a minimum of £5OO, investments may be in multiples of £lOO.
If you desire to invest for any period between 30 and 360 days you nominate
the exact date you desire your investment to mature. Rate of interest depends
on the length of the investment. For example, if the investment is made for
95 days, the rate is that specified for the 90-179 days period.
Applications for Notes can be accepted only on the printed form attached to
the prospectus. Copies of the full prospectus with application form obtainable
from:—
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
D 142
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
'T'he opening of the Mermaid
-*■ Theatre at Puddle Dock is
an event for celebration. No
theatre has been built in
London for 30 years and none
in the City for 300 years. And
everywhere theatrds are being
pulled down to make room for
offices and shops.
That it has come about at
all is substantially due to the
inspired spontaneity of an
Australian. For the late Sir
Leslie Boyce, when Lord
Mayor of London, was taken
by a friend to see Bernard
Miles’s back-garden production
of “Macbeth” at Acacia Road,
St. John’s Wood. He suggested
that the Mermaid be re-erected
in the piazza of the Royal
Exchange for Coronation year.
The success of the thirteen-
week season (70,000 people
paid to see the four produc-
tions) led Mr. and Mrs. Miles
to believe that there was a real
demand for drama in the City.
Three years later, in 1956, the
Corporation granted the
Puddle Dock lease at a token
rent. Thenceforward the rais-
ing of the £62,000 to build and
equip the theatre proved to be
straightforward.
During the reign of the first
Elizabeth, the City Fathers,
for reasons of financial self-
interest, Puritanism, fear of
disease and disorder, stead-
fastly condemned the play-
house, which one Lord Mayor
castigated as “the ordinary
meeting-place for all vagrant
persons and masterless men
that hang about the City,
thieves, horse-stealers, whore-
mongers, cozeners, coney-
catching rascals, practicers of
treason and other such like.”
The conversion of an old
seven-story warehouse that
was severely damaged in the
first fire-raid has been cleverly
done. Although the 4ft.-thick
walls are incorporated into the
design and bridged with a con-
crete barrel-roof, excavation-
work and the extension toward
the tidal river were particularly
tricky, involving the use of
rock-drilling equipment and the
indulgence of the Port of
London Authority, which
licensed the scaffolding as a
wreck.
Economically speaking, the
deliberate planning should pay-
off well. For the rent is insig-
nificant and the theatre has
been erected by public sub-
scription. This means that the
overheads are reduced to main-
tenance costs and that most of
the takings can be spent on the
productions.
Policy and Performance
Artistically, the Mermaid’s
policy is “to find a common
way between the so-called
highbrow and lowbrow
theatres.” It intends to pre-
sent the best of both. Future
productions include the Anti-
gone of Sophocles, “Journey’s
End,” a new comedy, “The
Witch of Edmonton,” and
“Great Expectations.” Negoti-
ations are in progress for plays
by Brecht and Camus and for
Maxwell Anderson’s adapta-
tion of Paton’s “Cry the
Beloved Country.” Certainly
a diversification of choice.
It is also intended to hold
periodic City Jazz Festivals and
to offer lunchtime concerts of
serious music, film-shows and
one-act plays.
The opening presentation,
“Lock Up Your Daughters,” is
an adaptation, by Bernard
Miles, of Henry Fielding’s
forgotten comedy, Rape
n L^ a^e j * S u £ usu .
hght-hearted and inoffensive
er’ the title notwithstanding
The house-party atmosphere of
the Miles s home pervades and
contnves to impart to the im-
plicit bawdiness an adult, dis-
passionate tongue-in-cheek
unreality which is quite fetch-
ing. It is a charade with no
attempt at pretension. Laurie
Johnson’s music ranges from
Dr. Arne to Ivor Novello, with
an occasional excursion to the
Palais de Danse ; Lionel Bart’s
lyrics are simple but positive ;
the actors are brilliantly led,
both in speaking and singing,
by Stephanie Voss, Hy Hazell
(a Marie Lloyd one rung up
on the social ladder) and
Richard Wordsworth ; and the
production makes effective use
of the open stage,
Though this entertainment is
unlikely to go round the world
it is just right for the occasion,
For the scene is set in the City
c f London (1730) and the
material definitively challenges
the survival of stuffy Puri-
tanism in the Square Mile with-
out in sense threat ening to
corrupt its citizens . The whole
affair is as laced with misunder _
standing and ime virtue as an
O id-fashioned musical comedy,
and the players dearly enj
their make -believe.
T , .
. J he sta ? e ,aa “mprormse
between the Elizabethan and
m °dern multiple-set. How
deliberate omission of
a proscenium arch will affect
contemporary plays remains to
be seen, but the broad, open
stage occasions minor distrac-
tions and the actors are often
so close to the audience as to
impair the illusion.


PLAY ON!
By MICHAEL NEWMAN
I will never forget—and I.
mean this —-I will never
forget the opening night of
the first play 1 was ever
involved in. For the first time
1 saw what exactly went into
producing and presenting a
play.
The opening-night’s prepara-
tions started early. Make-up
began at six, and as I walked
in the front door of the empty
hall I saw a scene still being
rehearsed. The lead was speak-
ing from beneath a stepladder
on which a chap was seated
painting the corner of a scene.
1 had thought the play would
not be as well rehearsed as it
could be, and so, it seems,
had the producer.
I sauntered to the dressing-
rooms. Chaos and confusion
filled the place, and all sem-
blance of decency seemed to
have gone. I saw Alan help-
ing one of the girls dressing,
but I could not see any divi-
sion between the sexes’ dress-
ing-quarters.
“Hullo, Mike!” said a
bearded creature, waving.
I did not know any bearded
people, so I just smiled. “An
extra,” 1 thought. The ogre
leered at me.
“it's me,” he said.
“So 1 see,” I said, and smiled
vaguely again.
I escaped to what I thought
was the men’s dressing-
quarters, although Alan and
his friend were in the middle,
dressing each other. There I
changed into my costume. The
tights sagged alarmingly at the
rear and the knees, but it was
too late now to do anything
about that. I then joined the
make-up queue, and Watched
two harassed make-up people
at work.
“More purple around the
neck I think will you pass the
No. 5 Bill no you can’t have it
I’m using the No. 9 will I give
this bloke a beard Alice no
he’s not important enough,”
they babbled frantically, pour-
ing oil, face-cream and the
rainbow all over the faces of
their victims. I shuddered.
“Who are you?” demanded
one, as 1 sat down.
“Mike,” I said pleasantly.
“No, you clot!” she shouted.
“What character, numbskull!”
1 could not remember! And
what about my lines!
My stomach suddenly felt
as if 1 had just eaten a bad
apple.
The producer crashed
through the doors of the room.
He stared wildly about.
“Mr. Johns!” five people
cried in chorus, running to-
wards him. He looked blankly
at them, groaned, and dived
frantically out of the room.
“No, my good woman—not
now!” I heard him snarl in the
corridor, and he was gone.
“Don't touch your face,”
said the make-up woman when
she finished.
“Don’t sit down,” said the
wardrobe-mistress, looking at
my tights.
“Get out of the way!” said
three witches carrying a pot.
I stood there getting in and
out of people's way. Finally,
considerably bumped about, I
joined a group of nervous
actors in the corner.
“What’s my first line?”
they all shouted at me as I
manoeuvred towards them.
Lord! I don't even know
my own lines and these half-
wits ask me theirs!
I suddenly recognised Geoff
behind that terrible beard.
“Don’t forget to take off
your watch,” 1 said to him.
“Don’t forget to take off
your glasses, either,” Geoff
said hotly.
All the lights in the building
went out.
“Good God!” we heard the
producer scream in the momen-
tary silence. The lights flick-
ered on again.
“Do that again, my good
man, and I’ll gouge your eyes
out!” the producer’s voice rang
in the distance.
“Would all actors in the first
two scenes please move to the
wings,” said the callboy
smugly.
He was the producer’s son.
Geoff said afterwards that he
only meant to pat the boy on
the head as he passed, but
actually he walloped him on
the ear instead.
“I refuse to go on!” said
somebody.
We gathered sadly in the
wings.
“Where's the pot?” the pro-
ducer demanded.
“In the lavatory,” said one
of the witches.
The producer seized a sword
from Macbeth’s grasp and
moved towards the witches
with a wild stare.
“Don’t you ever joke with
me in this world or the next,”
he said quietly. The three
witches backed away and
clutched one another.
“But it is,” said one. “Geoff
said it had a spider in it and
ought to be cleaned.”
“It was painted with water-
color, too,” said Geoff quietly
to me as he made off.
“Well, get it on stage!”
shouted the producer.
“Did you want to see us?”
said a band of soldiers march-
ing up the backstage stairs and
clogging-up the wings.
The producer said he did not
want to see them and they left
quickly and audibly.
“Where’s that bloody pot?”
the producer asked the whole
theatre.
The audience squirmed
where it sat impatiently.
The pot was placed on stage.
“You are all meant to look
after your own hand-props,”
the producer toid a witch.
“Hand-prop! ” she exclaimed.
“It takes two of us to shift it.”
The producer ignored the
remark. All was ready. Shak-
speare was to live again on
our amateur stage.
The theatre hushed, the
lights dimmed, and the drums
rolled and thundered as the
witches snaked and glowered
onto the stage and the curtain
opened.
The drum-roll was planned
as an entry for the witches, but
no one had told us the
National Anthem would be
played first. The audience rose
to its feet, and the witches,
in full view, looked bewildered.
The curtains swung shut
again.
“What are you doing, you
fool! ” the producer whis-
pered fiercely at the curtain-
man, and he seized the rope
and the curtains opened again.
Too late did he realise, and


the piano struck the opening
chord of the Anthem.
The foremost witch stood to
attention, while the other two
remained crouched over the
pot. The audience was inter-
ested. The audience sat down.
“Fair is foul and foul ”
said the first witch.
The drums roiled again for
the witches’ entry. The rolls
died away, and the witch, with
gritted teeth, looked at the
drummer. The rolls stopped,
and after a long pause the
witch took a breath like the
winds of Hades and shouted
“IS FAIR!” The play had
started.
The producer sighed and
clutched for support, narrowly
missing the curtain-rope. He
subsided into a little wreck
against the wall, muttering
“Never again!”
The witches carried their pot
off as the curtains drew grace-
fully open for the second scene.
Geoff and I walked on. As I
came into view I suddenly
remembered my glasses. I
grabbed them off my face and
flung them down. ' They
skidded across to back centre-
stage.
Geoff spoke in flowing
accents, while I watched my
spectacles, fascinated. I could
see a bulge crawling along
behind the backdrop. I saw a
hand lift the backdrop and an
arm, the producer’s arm,
groping visibly for my spec-
tacles. The arm found them,
and the bulge turned round
and moved along the backdrop
to the wings.
At this moment Geoff
stopped his flowery speech and
looked at me.
“Ulk,” I said, and, gathering
myself, forgetting the glasses,
I launched —I hope —into my
opening lines.
The play continued, the
producer, with glazed look,
stood mouthing every word in
the wings. The play
came to an end with
Macduff holding a
bloody pillowcase with(
a cabbage in it, standing
centre-stage. The audi-
ence clapped and left.
I did not act with
that group again, and,
with one exception,
none of the cast to my
knowledge ever pro-
gressed any higher in
the field of dramatics.
The one exception is a
large, dark-haired chap
who was one of the
soldiers. He was a
swimmer, I was told by
one of the cast, and at that
time had been offered a
sporting - scholarship to an
American college.
Last night I saw him on an
American TV-film. He was
strumming a guitar, wearing
jeans and singing “Cumfy
Dumfy Love—oo Baby, you
are my cumfy dumfy love.”
I occasionally see the pro-
ducer, and he says the chap
showed no real promise.
"PAY... DOGSBODY"
By W. O. G.
My friend Dogsbody has
achieved the remark-
able distinction of
completely confound-
ing a bank-manager. Not only
that—he first reduced the man
to apology. And then he left
him, standing there with the
awful doubt on his face that
the System had failed. It
must have been wonderful.
f‘ , . j . ..
It started m another
State, where Dogsbody had
been working for a time. There,
one night, he stood with a
colleague in a pleasant place,
Their feet shared a rail. They
were mellow men.
They must have been mellow,
for Dogsbody recollects that
he was putting forward the
theory that somewhere there
must be a bank-manager who
had trust and forgiveness,
Dogsbody s colleague said
' hCT , e was such » man -, T*H S
bank-manager, he alleged
was kind and human, almost
t(J t^e p o j nt Q f recklessness.
Why, he even gave out over-
drafts to black-and-white
artists. He even gave them to
journalists, sometimes.
“Where is he?” said Dogs-
body.
“Sydney, corner of So-and-
So and Such-and-Such,” said
his colleague. “You’re going
back there why don’t you
transfer your account to him.”
And so it came to pass.
Dogsbody, when about to
return to Sydney, went to his
bank, arranged to transfer his
account, and left them elated.
Back in Sydney about a week,
he went down the street, and
there was the bank just where
he’d fixed it in his mind’s eye
that night in the other State
capital.
Into the bank he went, up to
the inquiry-counter.
“I’m A. G. Dogsbody,” he
said. “I’ve arranged for my
account to be transferred here.”
The girl smiled at him and
went off to get the gen.
Great bank. Great day, felt
Dogsbody.
The girl came back. She
wasn’t smiling. Dogsbody’s
goodfellowship fell off him
when she said: “I’m afraid
we have no record of it, sir.”
His account had only been
small, a factor which could have
caused the wave of maternal
protective instinct he suddenly
felt for it.
Dogsbody hit the roof.
Hadn’t he gone out of his
way to make
arrangements ?
What sort of a
place was this?
The girl
backed away.
She returned
with the assist-
ant-manager.
“Very unfor-
tunate,” he was
saying, washing
his hands with the thin air.
“It must be just some
technical hitch. Should be
easy enough to track-down.
We will make immediate
inquiries sir, and could you
call back on Tuesday?”
\ “I certainly will,” said Dogs-
body, and he left them.
Tuesday, and Dogsbody’s
chin jutted as he entered the
bank. He stood again at the
inquiry-desk, and the deputy-
manager approached.
The man said: “Mr. Dogs-
body, I’m afraid there is some-
thing seriously wrong. We
can find no trace whatever of
your account.”
Dogsbody shook, a little like
Vesuvius ; then he erupted.
People in the bank stopped
in their tracks in wonder. His
words froze tellers, wet-
fingered, in the act of count-
ing their notes; the big
adding-machines were still, the
operators gaping.
In the middle of it, the
manager appeared, got a
quick resume from his assistant,
then waited for Dogsbody to
run out of breath.
Dogsbody’s righteous indig-
nation made him very convinc-
ing, and soon the manager
found himself nodding with the
justice of the remarks.
Finally, Dogsbody paused.
“Please,” said the manager.
“I don’t know what the cause
is, sir, but I profoundly regret
it. It appears that we missed
something in our inquiries. I
truly cannot recall anything
similar in all my years in
banking ...”
He was smooth, that
manager. Dogsbody’s pause
lengthened into hurt silence.
“We’ll rectify this, have no
doubt of that,” the manager
went on. “First, we’ll get you
to fill in a claim-form . . .
Miss Jones!”
The young lady who was
Miss Jones leapt away as if
stung, returned, and laid the
(Continued on page 45)


Let Sleeping Cats Lie
By MARY BISHOP
Mary Bishop is the American-born wife of a Queensland
veterinary surgeon —“It’s a Dog’s Life,” she says; or, at
any rate, that is the title of her book about it, published
by Hammond, Hammond, of London, in which “Let
Sleeping Cats Lie” is chapter 15.
It had been a hectic morn-
ing of before-breakfast
telephone-calls, of an
altercation between
daughters and of a husband
looking for lost property.
“Who moved my chemical
gardens?” demanded Older
Daughter and then went in for
the attack. “You moved them.
Why can’t you leave my things
alone!”
“I didn’t touch your old
bottles,” declared Younger.
“I’ll bet you did, and now
you’ve stirred them all up and
they’re ruined!”
“I did not!”
I entered the ring at that
stage. “/ moved the bottles.
When I saw they’d already
taken the paint off the window-
sill I replaced them, and per-
haps not very gently. If you
must do things like that I
wish you’d . .
My wishes were interrupted
by Rocky, who couldn’t find a
screwdriver he vowed he’d left
on the sideboard three weeks
before, and where had I put
it?
Breakfast and the tumult
were over, and I was repairing
the havoc in the kitchen, which
is on the floor above the
surgery, when I heard a bellow
of pain from Rocky below and
a shriek from Helen, the
assistant. I was halfway down
the back steps when she
appeared, wringing her hands
and jumping from foot to foot.
There was no color left in her
face. “Hurry,” she moaned.
“Hurry! ”
I braced myself for the
worst and knew I’d find a dead
body in the surgery—my hus-
band's dead body, for he
wanted the screwdriver to fix
the electric steriliser. His
knowledge of electrical appli-
ances is such that he shouldn’t
be trusted with anything
carrying a voltage greater than
an electric torch.
1 arrived ready to step over
his prostrate body, flip a switch
and start applying artificial
respiration. But there he was
upright and very much alive
—more alive than I’d seen him
for a long time. A black-and-
white cat was hanging by her
teeth from one of his wrists ;
she was growling and working
her teeth in deeper with each
growl. Rocky had a grip on
her loins with his free hand.
“I tried to get her off,”
wailed Helen, “and I couldn’t.
Do something.- Do some-
thing!”
Rocky began to issue in-
structions which sounded like
“Grabberhead! Grabberbythe-
scruffoftheneck. Grabberby-
theloins!” But mostly:
“Watchout! She’ilgetyou !”
If Rocky released the cat's
loins he would have one hand
free to work on the cat’s jaws.
The cat would then have her
hind legs free to tear his arms
to shreds ; or if she played fair
and released her jaws when
he released her loins, there
would then be the tricky pro-
ject of catching her as she
dashed frantically among the
surgery bottles. Unless some-
one intervened the status quo
would remain status quo until
the cat or Rocky made a move,
and both looked very, very
determined.
To me it was a state of
emergency, and I decided to
take Helen’s advice of “Do
something.” Rocky’s instruc-
tions would be hard to follow.
I grabbed the cat by the scruff*
of the neck and pried her jaws
loose, clamped her mouth shut
so she couldn't bite me (I
think that is what I did, I'll
never be sure), shoved her in
the general direction of an
open cat-cage and slammed the
lid.
I thought I had done a
brilliant and courageous bit of
work, b u t unfortunately
Rocky was still holding the
cat by the loins when the lid
slammed and it gave him a
sharp rap on the knuckles. No
blood was drawn, but the rap
further incensed him. He spent
the next five minutes telling
me what poor judgment had
been shown in my actions and
how lucky it was the cat didn't
get me. And the next time a
cat was chewing his wrist he
hoped I’d follow his instruc-
tions.
1 walked out when he took
another deep breath to con-
tinue his lecture, and returned
upstairs, heartlessly leaving
him to dress his wounds. The
kitchen radio was announcing
the next serial, “Claudia Faces
Life.” The announcer’s tone
oozed with the bravery of the
little woman,.
“She’ll need a club,” I
muttered as I scraped some
trodden-in jam from the
kitchen floor.
A cat has never got away
from us yet, although once
one shot out of its owner’s
arms in the waiting-room. An
alarm was sounded in the
neighborhood and several
search-parties went into action.
The cat was finally bailed-up
under an outhouse, which for-
tunately had been abandoned
for its original purpose when
the sewerage came through.
We own two black-and-
white cats —Socks and Crazy
Cat. Socks was given to the
girls by a small boy who de-
clared it was a poor little stray
he’d found in the street with
no mother or father to look
" after it. He also told them
how he had rescued it from a
fleet of savage dogs, how it
had narrowly missed death
from the wheels of a motor-
car, how hungry it was and
how cruel his mother was not
to let him keep it.
“And you aren't a cruel
mother like that,” declared the
girls.
A few days later both girls
broke out in ringworms.
Another few days and Socks
was reported to have hair
falling out in spots. “Poor
little waif!” I muttered as I
looked the girls over each
night in search for fresh
lesions.
Crazy Cat arrived to be
destroyed. “Because we just
have too many cats and we
can’t find a home for it,”
He was a ratty-looking,
unattractive kitten, but Rocky,
who could not stomach the


ANTHONY HORDERNS
PHONE B 0951 OR
WRITE BOX 2712, G.P.O.
JUST ARRIVED
Small shipment of famous
SMllliHS KUOS OddlH SIWOSNVa
No. 7 HIPPO SHELLER
Operated by hand or power.
With fan. Hand speed 65 revs
per min. 3 sieves. Output
2000 per hr. £89 , 15 / -
No. 6 similar to No. 7, less
Fan, priced at £7O/15/-.
"DEMON" SHELLERS
One hole corn sheller. Hand
operated. Shelling approx.
9001 b. per hour. Fan gives
clean maize. Priced: £3 5
'DEMON” SHELLERS
CLEARANCE! NEW ERA MILK SEPARATORS
No. 229. 12 gals, per hour: 12 only, £l3/10/- No. 230. 17 gals, per hour: 6 only, 16 Cns.
VEGA 87. 22 gals, per hour. 3 only, £2l
job, decided we could find
him a home. We did. And
Crazy Cat immediately en-
deared himself to my heart by
using the drain in the bathroom
floor for his toilet activities.
Very little trouble at all, and
in no time he’d learned to use
the garden.
Our cats are good mousers.
They keep the house supplied
with mice they catch outside
and bring inside for us to
admire. I am fond of cats
and I respect their privacy.
They have the freedom of the
house within limits. I don’t
restrain them, and so I never
see in them the Mr. Hyde that
is in the Dr. Jekyll of every
cat.
Cats have taught me much
since I’ve become a cat-
holder. So when my husband’s
voice floats up from below —
“Just help me with this cat a
minute” —I know I shall
further increase my know-
ledge.
I always approach one with
many “Nice pussies,” and we
remain on a friendly basis
until I start to hold. From
then on its activities closely
simulate the mutilating action
of a hand-grenade if retained
after the safety-pin has been
pulled.
The object in holding a cat
is to allow Rocky to make a
simple examination of a
wound or perhaps have a look
down its throat or do an
injection, and not to tear it
limb from limb, as the animal
seems to think. If an examina-
tion can be made with me
acting as fielder and not as
holder, feline-human relation-
ships are good ; but if I must
hold, a state of war exists.
Cats have four claws on
each hind foot and five claws
on each front foot; each set
of claws can act in unison or
independently, and if used
with seriousr intent they can
slash up a lot of epidermis—
and dermis, too. Cats belong
to the carnivora, or flesh-
devouring animals, and have
two jaws of teeth specially
designed for piercing and tear-
ing flesh.
Cats have the slipperiness
and flexibility of eels, and,
when held against their will,
the strength of dementia. They
behave dementedly, too. When
pussy is seen basking in the
sun on the doorstep none of
this physical equipment is
noticeable. It only becomes
evident when the cat becomes
aroused. And to hold a cat
against its will is to arouse it.
And when a cat becomes fully
aroused I have something on
my hands cat-bites and
scratches.
HThe old one about letting
sleeping dogs lie should be
revised to letting sleeping cats
lie. There would be a lot
more sense to it.
I reckon if anyone invents
a cat-holder that will really
hold cats while an examina-
tion is made, he will be doing
for the vet. what oil does for
troubled waters.
There is one woman I want
to meet. Her husband is a
veterinary practitioner who
made us a brief visit on his
way through town. Over a
cup of- tea he said proudly,
“My wife cart hold cats. They
don’t move when she holds
them! ”
I am much impressed by
the statement, and I certainly
want to meet that woman. I
want to see what extra physi-
cal equipment she has for the
job, or if she uses the same
equipment I do, but more
effectively. It may be she uses
her teeth to hold them by the
scruff of the neck, leaving her
hands free for the feet. If one
woman can hold cats effec-
tively then I should be able to.
Rocky’s instructions are hus-
bandly and vary from cat to
cat (what holds one cat doesn’t
hold another), and there should
be some place where a woman
can find standard instructions
on cat-gripping.
I found a dissertation on
cats in a veterinary textbook.
But there was very little about
holding them that I didn’t
know already. However, I
was heartened by the author’s
remarks. “Highly nervous
temperament.” “Most difficult
patients a veterinarian has to
deal with.” “Need for
patience.” “Agility and readi-
ness to jump.” “Must be pre-
pared to counter.” “Wise to
shut all- doors and windows.”
“Should one escape in a room,
may be caught by throwing a
rug over it. But getting it out
of the rug is still fraught with
danger.”
After reading that, I knew
that, in spite of my husband’s
comments, it wasn’t so much
my cat-holding as it was cats.
And I lost my inferiority com-
plex.
Anyway, if the woman was
such a good cat-holder, why
didn't her husband bring her
along on the trip? I suspect
she was in hospital at the time,
with doctors fighting to save
the sight of both her eyes.
(Continued on page 44)


THE STATELY HOMES ARE IN A SORRY STATE
“In This Very Room... "
By JOHN LAFFEN
ith a wand in her hand and a scarlet
* ’ sash around her middle, the female
guide spoke portentously and we looked
duly impressed.
“And this,” she said, pointing to a
large, canopied four-poster, “is the very
bed in which Lady Fitzsummergue gave
birth to Lord Percival, the third earl.”
A bunch of us were herded on one
side of the large room. A cord kept us
at bay while the guide moved about and
lectured on the items of furniture. After
the bed she approached a battered old
chair.
“And this chair was given to the fifth
earl by the Prince Regent when he came
to stay, while the curtains are the
original ones made by- the wife of the
fifth earl —they took her twenty years
to make.”
We saw the monstrous kitchens, con-
nected to the dining-hall by a 50-yard
tunnel, the music-room, the library, the
gun-room, the minstrels’ gallery and the
antique toilets. And the guide spent ten
minutes giving us the history of the long
path made entirely from animal knuckle-
bones by the second-assistant under-
gamekeeper during the time of the third
earl.
At the end she said, “If you’d like to
know more about the House, the
souvenir-book is half-a-crown at the main
gate.”
This sort of thing is going-on all over
England now that summer is here. The
“stately homes” have swallowed their
pride and are cashing-in on what they
most abhor ——vulgar curiosity.
The only stately-home owner who
really seems to revel in his new business
is the Duke of Bedford. Until recently
he climbed into his coronation robes to
welcome tourists to his pile, Woburn
Abbey.
The Duke is out to make money. When
the tourist tires of the galleries, with
their million - pounds’ - worth of Old
Masters, he can nip down to the jazzed-up
cellar for a “Coke” and a hamburger. If
he's thirsty after walking round the farm,
he can have a milk-shake at the dairy-bar.
The most startling feature of all is the
fun-fair running full blast in the Abbey
grounds. Parents are encouraged to leave
their kids at the fair to keep them out
of the Duke's sparse hair.
The more sedate stately-home owners
scorn souvenir-selling, but the Duke of
Bedford runs a gift-shop which sells,
among other things, metal- and china-
replicas of the Abbey, postcards, and
autographed photographs of the Duke
and his family.
The tourist with a couple of quid to
spare can buy himself lunch with the
Duke, who eats with parties of about
50 and pretends not to notice the scramble
to sit next to him. I managed it by
slipping ffve-bob to a flunkey dressed
like a 17th-century footman.
“Gawd!” he said. “It’s hot in this
ruddy rig-aht!”
If business is brisk the Duke will sit
through two or three luncheons. At £lOO
a time, wouldn’t anyone?
Most stately-homes charge 2.5. 6d.
admission; some as much as 7s. 6d.
Car-parking is extra, usually two-bob.
By joining the National Trust, tourists
get a pass which admits them to all
homes administered by the Trust—and
that's most of them.
The Trust is a convenient and dignified
means whereby owners can have their
cake and eat it, too. Sucked dry by taxes,
few people can’afford the upkeep on a
very large home, so they deed it to the
Trust, which agrees to pay the upkeep
"I'm sure you'll be quite comfortable here."
in return for being permitted to make the
home into a showplace during the season,
in limited hours. The owners continue
to live in a portion of the house, which
is not open to the public. Some owners
go abroad for the season to avoid the
ordeal.
As a business, stately - homes pay
handsomely. Arundel Castle, Sussex,
home of the Duke of Norfolk and not a
National Trust property, is a big enough
money-spinner to pay the wages of a
staff of 24, who regulate the traffic and
see that tourists don't latch-on to
ancestral treasures.
As Earl Marshal of England, the Duke
must be circumspect, but on occasions he
will pose with visitors while the Castle
cameraman takes a photograph. Private
photographs are banned.
Many an aristocrat will himself show
“selected persons"’ about the mansion—
after the financial preliminaries have been
made through the front office. Last
summer I was a member of such a party,
and a Yank tourist offered our host a
ten-dollar tip.
“Go on, take it your Lordship,” he
said. “You need it more than I do.”
“It’s uncommonly civil of you,” said
the well-bred Englishman, “but really, I
couldn't accept rebel money.”
■pjOß all their commercialism, the stately-
homes are worth looking at. England’s
history is written on their mellow walls
and much of its characteristic beauty in
architecture and gardens, and no less in
the surroundiag landscape of park, farm-
stead and woodland, has been brought
into existence around them.
Milton’s poetic eye observed this
essentially English scene:
Towers and battlements it sees
Bosom’d high in tufted trees.
This still vividly describes the picture
presented by such storied homes as
Knole and Penshurst, Haddon Hall and
Longleat. Since then the centuries have
added the graceful homes of Queen
Anne’s age, the demure splendors of the
18th century and the romantic imaginings
of the Victorian era!
With their accumulating contents of
paintings and furnishings, these great
houses, set among haunts of ancient
peace, are unique treasuries of the art
of living. Rarely so magnificent as the
palaces of Italy, or so ostentatious as
typical French chateaux, they are, above
all, homes —that peculiarly English con-
ception.
Their tragedy is that the climate which
brought them into being and the type
of people who lived in them have both
gone. The old owners of stately-homes
regarded money, when they thought of it
at all, as something they paid to workers
on the estate. Today's owners depend on
the odd silver of tourists to keep the
homes intact.


GOUT AND
ARTHRITIS
~are almost identical
Often the agonising pains and
symptoms that are supposed to be
Arthritic art' really due to a
GOUTY condition caused by excess
uric acid in the blood.
COUCH I.SONE is the only treat-
ment for these cases because it is
the only one containing Colchicum,
Guiacol and Apium, prepared and
blended by a special process to
counteract the cause of this com-
plaint. It is thoroughly reliable,
almost instantly effective and
guaranteed harmless.
If you suffer from joint pains, get
COUCHISONE, the famous Eng-
lish pale blue pills today, from your
Chemist. Price 17/0 small size or
30/- large economy size, which is
usually sufficient for acute eases.
Diet chart with each size. If unavail-
able from your Chemist write to—
CHARLES AGENCIES
(AUSTRALIA),
230 Commonwealth St., Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Wimbledon
Wimbledon, 1959—finals of
which were played over the
weekend—marked a new trend
which may prove to be of far
greater significance than is
realised as a portent of things
to come, not only on the inter-
national tennis-front but in
world sport and, for that
matter, in world affairs
generally.
This was the twin success of
Latin-American countries with
Peruvian Alex Olmedo win-
ning the men’s singles and
Brazilian Maria Bueno the
women’s singles title.
A couple of interlopers in
Petra, of France, and the Iron
Curtain voluntary exile Jan
Drobny have previously inter-
rupted the near quarter-century
Australia-U.S.A. domination
of the Wimbledon men’s
singles, but Maria Bueno, a
19-year-old, broke an Ameri-
can domination of the women’s
title which had lasted since
England’s Dorothy Round won
in 1937. Miss Bueno beat
Darlene Hard (U.S.A.) in
straight sets, 6-4, 6-3, to take
the title.
Nationally speaking, Aus-
tralia made easily the best
showing at Wimbledon, pro-
viding three of the quarter-
finalists, two of the semi-
finalists and one of the finalists
in the singles ; all four players
in the men’s doubles final ; and
the male components of each
of the mixed doubles finalists.
America’s best showing was to
get Mac Kay as far as the semi-
finals of the singles.
In the singles, Fraser, Laver
and Emerson reached the
quarters, where they met,
respectively, Mac Kay, Moli-
nari (Fr.) and Wilson (U.S.A.).
Fraser lost a marathon match
to Mac Kay; Laver took less
than an hour to beat Molinari
in straight sets ; and Emerson
had an equally easy win over
Wilson. Olmedo, meanwhile,
had a battling four-sets win
over Ayala (another Latin-
American, be it noted).
Olmedo went on to an easy
semi-final win, beating Emer-
son 6-4, 6-0, 6-4, and in the
other semi—the best match of
the whole series—Laver beat
Mac Kay 11-13, 11-9, 10-8, 7-9,
6-3. That, plus playing all the
matches involved in reaching
the finals of the men’s and
mixed doubles, may have con-
tributed to the rather tired-
looking Laver who faced a
much fresher Olmedo in the
singles final (this page has
advocated for years that our
top players with a strong show
in the singles should leave at
least the mixed events as con-
solation prizes for the lesser
lights). But there was no
detracting from the tennis
Olmedo produced to win the
singles final, 6-4, 6-3, 6-4.
The men’s doubles final was
between Fraser-Emerson and
“If's not fighting-ability that counts these days—
it's glamor."
Mark-Laver, all Australians.
Fraser-Emerson won the first
two sets 8-6, 6-3, Mark and
Laver took the third set at
15-13, but the Fraser-Emerson
combination outstayed them to
win 9-7. Laver and Miss Hard
beat Fraser and Miss Bueno
in straight sets. So Laver
figured in three finals.
That Australia could still
make such a showing despite
the depredations of Kramer
over the past few years is
amazing and encouraging. So
far as memory serves, the last
American amateur that
Kramer recruited for his pro.
circus was Trabert. Since then
Australian amateur tennis has
been plundered of Rosewall,
Hartwig, Hoad, Rose, Cooper
and Anderson —and can still
manage to make a mile better
showing than the Americans
at Wimbledon.
On Wimbledon form Aus-
tralia wouldn’t be troubled to
clean up the U.S. in the Davis
Cup, but presumably the U.S.
will again choose to borrow
Olmedo, whereupon it becomes
a horse of a different com-
plexion. On his single-handed
winning of the last Davis Cup
Challenge, crowned by his fine
Wimbledon win, Olmedo is
undoubtedly the world’s best
amateur today. With him in
t’other team, Australia is
virtually conceding two Davis
Cup singles matches. Regard-
ing those two matches as
written-off, the outcome of the
Davis Cup then seems to hinge
on how the giant young
American Mac Kay will rise to
the big occasion this year. If
he strikes his best at the right
time the U.S. could score a
5-0 walkover. If, on the other
hand, he doesn’t, and Laver
does hold the form he showed
at Wimbledon, and Fraser
doe* produce something closer
to his best than he found at
Wimbledon, then a 3-2 win for
Australia is well on the cards.
Of course it would throw
rather a spanner in the works
if Chile and Peru were to get
together and field Alex Olmedo
and Luis Ayala as a team
representing Latin-America or
Combined Republics, or some-
thing of the sort. After all,
why not if Olmedo can play
for the U.S.? And Australia
and New Zealand did field
joint “Australasia” teams in
earlier Davis Cups. Olmedo-
Ayala would make a team to
toss Australia or the United
States.
Harking back to Wimble-
don, it was amazing to sight
among the names of players
in early rounds this year one
J. Borotra. Yes, believe it or
not, it was the one and only
Jean Borotra —the “Bounding
Basque,” leader of the “Four
Musketeers” (the others,
Cochet, Lacoste and Brugnon)
who gave France her several
hours of tennis-glory back in
the late ’twenties and early
’thirties. Borotra, who these
days is vice-president of the
French L.T.A., was just a few
weeks short of his 61st birth-
day when he teamed with Eng-
land’s Tony Clayton against
young Australians Fletcher and
Mulligan at Wimbledon. The
youngsters won, but it was no
walkover at 10-8, 8-6, 6-4.
* * *
At Doomben
Second Earl, very brilliant
winner of last Saturday’s
Doomben Ten Thousand in
Brisbane, has a breeding-back-
ground probably more interest-
ing and unusual than that of
any other runner at the big
meeting.
v * ...
From the Ajax mare Ajalon,
Second Earl was sired in
N.S.W. by Tembu, at the
Hughes Stud, but was foaled
in New Zealand, Ajalon
having been bought in foal
and taken there. He was reared
at Sir James and J. C. Fletcher’s
Alton Lodge Stud, was sold
for 850gns. as a yearling, had
a dazzling career on N.Z.
tracks, and is raced by Mrs.
C. McGregor. He’s almost a
certainty to be seen in action
in Sydney at the AJ.C.’s big
spring meeting. If not crushed
out with sheer weight, he’d
Fun a pretty good Epsom.
Second Earl’s win, carrying
8.8 (and from wide out at the
barrier), added a further com-
ment on the sane Brisbane
handicapping policy of favor-
ing lenient-seeming weights. On
performances—and overlook-
ing “relativity”—Grey Ghost
(9.5), Gold Stakes (9.3) and
perhaps Fountainhead (8.12)
all looked “flattered” and


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
none of them managed a place,
Blue Dart (7.9) running a good
second, with Squander Lad
third. And a grand Ten
Thousand it was, too, from
go to whoa.
Racing on Doomben’s first
day didn’t throw much addi-
tional light upon prospects in
the £lO,OOO Cup, second leg
of the B.A.T.C. double, to be
run next Saturday. Light-
weight Duchesne, an outsider,
narrowly won the Carnival
Handicap (H mile) from
another local outsider, Chilly
Glance, and the Randwick-
trained favorite, Skyline. All
three figure in the Cup weights,
and maybe Skyline will show
improvement; he needed a
sharp run to top him off for
the Cup.
Skyline drops from 8.4 to
Bst., which certainly looks on
paper a luxury impost for an
A.J.C. Derby winner, if you
ignore such handicapping con-
siderations as relative weights.
Still, if at his best, Skyline
would give any race over the
Cup distance a shaking.
Caesar didn’t please in the
Carnival Handicap, but Com-
pass finished brilliantly from
the rear of the field in the Ten
Thousand, and narrowly
missed placemoney. Compass
isn’t suited by a sprint dist-
ance ; he could go well in the
Cup with 8.7. All along the
Doomben Cup has been his
special mission, and he’s par-
ticularly fit. Earlwood is a
top Brisbane performer and a
last-start winner of Tattersall's
(Brisbane) Cup, in which Book
Link, last year’s Doomben
Cup winner, finished fourth.
He has 8.12 in the big race,
and is one of Queensland’s
best horses. A.J.C. Doneaster
Handicap winner Tudor Hill
also has many admirers.
Selections for the Doomben
Cup: Compass, I; Earlwood,
2 ; Skyline, 3.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Bernborough’s colors were
carried with success by Count
Rego in the Graduation Stakes
for two-year-old colts and
geldings at Warwick Farm last
Saturday. It was the gelding's
first success, but he has been
knocking at the door and
looked a paper-certainty. The
Count gave jockey Jack
Thompson an easy ride, and
later in the day Thompson
also won on Verve and El
Rocco.
Count Rego is by Wiggle’s
sire, Rego (imp.), and was the
first foal of Shetland, a mare
by St. Magnus (imp.) from
Border Lass by Gay Lothario
(imp.).
Veteran owner-trainer W. H.
(Bill) Kennerson is well known
in the central-western districts
of N.S.W., particularly around
Bathurst. He has had a fairly
long association with racing,
but he hadn’t had much luck
for about a year until he won
with Legal Session at Warwick
Farm. He thinks Susa, another
of his team, will also win
before long. In partnership
with P. E. Edmonds, Kenner-
son races Legal Session, easy
winner of the Graduation for
two-year-old fillies. She could
go on to better things.
A granddaughter of top-
class staying mare Session
(V.R.C. Oaks and A.J.C.
Adrian Knox Stakes), Legal
Session is by Brimstone (imp.)
from News Session by Le
Grand Due (Fr.) from Session
by Marconigram (imp.). She
was bred at Kia-Ora Stud,
Scone (N.S.W.).
One to win soon—Te Rapa!
This two-year-old gelding by
Tsaoko (Fr.) from Carisbrook
has started only twice, each
time at long odds, but he
showed a lot of pace when
third to odds-on Count Rego
and Triple Chief at Warwick
Farm. One of Tom Smith’s
big team, Te Rapa is raced by
Dave Chrystal, jnr. Te Rapa’s
dam, winner of races at two
years, is an Ajax mare.
• • • •
Warwick Farm patrons who
took a binocular-interest in the
running of the Welter Six were
much impressed by the per-
formance of the third place-
getter, Golden Vogue, who in
New Zealand raced as Golden
Warrior, and was having his
first Sydney outing. He was at
long odds, but he unwound a
great burst of speed from the
home-turn, to be less than half-
a-length from the winner,
Gregory John. The latter de-
feated Mt. Royal by a head
with the visitor a long head
away. Gregory John also came
from a fair way back, but at
the half-mile Golden Vogue
was 15th of 24 runners, and he
was still in the ruck at the
home-turn. He “flew” up the
straight. He's a five-year-old
gelding by Someo (imp.) from
Gold form. Goldform’s sister,
Classform, won 14 New Zea-
land races, including the New
Zealand Cup (two miles).
Randwick trainer Frank
Dalton hasn’t had Verve long,
but he didn't lose much time
in winning with the New Zea-
lander, who carries the colors
of Sir James and J. C. Fletcher,
stud masters of Alton Lodge,
Te Kauwhata. Verve, who won
three races in New Zealand at
up to 11 furlongs, is by Ruth-
less (imp.), champion sire of
N.Z. in 1956-57 and 1953-54,
while her dam, False Step, by
Phaleron Bay (imp.) from
Tripping by Nigger Minstrel,
won 13 races.
* * *
Grand Nationals
Victoria’s Governor, Sir
Dallas Brooks, completely
summed-up this year’s Grand
National Hurdle during the
presentation ceremony, describ-
ing th& race as “worth going
a long way to see.”
• • • •
From the start of the three-
miler until the last hurdle the
two topweights, Fordell (11.3)
and Resotto (11.2), cut at each
other for the lead, with Re-
sotto’s perfect jumping
matched against Fordell’s
superior pace on the flat.
Racing kindly behind these
two throughout was Hillwood,
with the light burden of 9.8.
At the last jump, Fordell had
had enough, and Resotto
looked a chance to win his
second successive National. In
the run along the straight, how-
ever, Hillwood’s big weight-
advantage made the difference,
and the five-year-old Wood-
burn-Sunflower gelding landed
the money, with Resotto an
excellent second, and Fordell
a weary third.
Hillwood is a Turf bargain.
Veteran trainer Harry Myers—he's
74—talked his patron W. Ryan into
paying £BO for the gelding. Myers
had already won a National Hurdle
and Steeple for Ryan with Redfield
he's a trainer who knows the
jumping-game right through; as far
back as 1927 he won a National
Steeple with Nyangay. Hillwood
has won four jumping-races, all at
Flemington, and, now a five-year-
old, he could have years of jumping
ahead of him.
Resotto was the unlucky horse
of the National. Due to a fall at
the Valley, his preparation has not
been as solid as trainer Ray Bones
would have liked, and a horse
burdened with better than list,
over three miles needs to be cherry-
ripe.
Dating to 1866, the Grand
National Steeple is one of the
oldest races on the Australian
calendar, but it was run irregu-
larly until 1881, when the
Grand National Hurdle was
instituted. Since then, the big
jumping-double has been the
highlight of winter racing in
Melbourne, and indeed was
the only winter fixture of im-
portance in the country until
Queensland took advantage of
its kindly climate to make
Brisbane racing the premier
carnival at this time of the year.
• • •
In the 78 years in which the
feat has been possible only
two horses have completed the
National double in successive
weeks —Redleap (1892) and
Mosstrooper (1930). Old-
timers still speak reverently
of Redleap’s performance to
win with 13.3, a record that


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WAkK.BR
BORN 7820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.lB4.ta
must continue to stand now
that maximum weight is 12.7.
Victory March (1942), running
it in 6.2, holds time-honors for
the exhausting 3 miles 1
furlong.
Grand National Steeple
Selections: Irish Sun, 1 ; Red-
field, 2 ; Malatea, 3.
There is no such species as
a certainty in a horserace, but
Irish Sun looks the next-best
thing in next Saturday’s Grand
National Steeple. In the Ken-
sington Steeple at Flemington
the five-year-old grey gelding
by Solar Bear from Princess
Agnes looked every bit a
National winner as he made
up 10 lengths from the last
jump on South Australian
fencer Malatea. It was the
grey’s third win from his last
four starts, and, adding more
to his National prospects, he
drops 91b. from the 10.9 he
carried last Saturday.
Irish Sun is in Harry Myers’s
hands, which gives that trainer a
great chance of winning the
National double, particularly as
Myers also prepares Redfield, who
already has a National Hurdle and
Steeple in his record, and who ran
on strongly into fourth place in the
Kensington. Malatea will have
porters, and his featherweight of
9.2 will be a great advantage over
the gruelling journey. Tranquil
Glow fell in the Kensington when
running his usual dashing race m
front. If he has taken no harm
from the fall,, he could make a
brave showing in the big race.
For a lad to be on a winner
at his first ride in a race would
be a big thrill even if the meet-
ing were back o’ Bourke, but
15-year-old H. White had that
pleasant experience at Fleming-
ton on Saturday. The lad is
a son of Harry White, who
rode successfully in Melbourne
20 years ago, and he is appren-
ticed to Tony Lopes. Not
many people benefited by the
boy’s success his mount,
Alpino, was at 66 to 1.
No fewer than 56 young-
sters contested the two heats
of the Myross Handicap for
two-year-oids over the Flem-
mgton five-furlongs. In win-
ning the first division Bosnia
lived up to the promise he
gave against good-class horses
in the autumn, in races like
the Sires’ Produce and the
Gibson-Carmichael Stakes. He
was racing first-up after a
spell, but trainer Mick Alessio
had him well forward in con-
dition A gelding by Wiggle’s
sire, Rego, from Border Lass,
he cost lOOOgns. at the Sydney
yearling-sales.
Like Bosnia, Strand, who
won the second Myross, was a
maiden before his win, but a
last-run second behind My
Peak over the same course
gained him plenty of backers.
A gelding by Avignon from
Jessamy, he's one of the
smallest youngsters in train-
ing ; in fact, at 14.3 he’s only
pony-size.
One of the most interesting
races on the marathon 10-race
card at Flemington was the
first heat of the Two-year-old
Mile. Two of the most promis-
ing youngsters in Melbourne
drew this division, and each
was after his third successive
win. Maori Prince won
rather narrowly from his rival
Sir Emblem, and the deciding
factor was Geoff Lane’s
patience in waiting for a rails-
run. Maori Prince is a N.Z.-
bred gelding by Sabaean from
Penny ; Sir Emblem is a High
Peak colt from Goldfern. Both
look classic material.
* * *
Other Sports
The 1959 British Open,
played at Muirfield (Scotland),
was won by young South
African Gary Player, with a
four-round aggregate of 284 (75,
71, 70, 68). /Tying for second on
286 were little-known Englishman
Fred Bullock and Belgian Flory van
Donck. Peter Thomson, four times
winner of the British Open (each
year since 1952 Thomson had either
won or been runner-up), finished
well back, with a 294 (74, 74, 72,
74). "~Earlier Thomson had set a
record for the qualifying rounds of
137 (71, 66). In his fine win Player
recovered from a worse first-round
score than Thomson’s.
* * *
Shock of Saturday’s V.F.L.
round was Fitzroy’s smash 11-
goal win over Carlton, 21.13-
10.13. The Blues put on six
goals in the third quarter, but
for the rest it was mainly ’Roy;
up to half-time the Lions had eaten
the Blues, to lead 13.4-1.5 at the
interval. This second consecutive
loss by Carlton drags it down to
third place, though it’s still level
on match-points with new leader,
Melbourne, and North. At St.
Kilda the Demons, shockingly off-
target, beat the locals by one point,
9.23-11.10, despite a game last-
quarter rally by the Saints. (In
last year’s game at St. Kilda between
the two the Saints won by a point,
12.7-11.12.> St. Kilda now drops
out of “the four,” with pacy South,
which always had Richmond’s
measure 15.16-10.13, catching-up to
the Saints on match-points and
edging in narrowly on percentages.
Collingwood, showing some of its
best form for the season, beat North
11.18-9.9. Hawthorn kept its hopes
alive by probably ending Essen-
don’s, 14.13-12.20, after the scores
had been level, 7.6-6.12, at half-
time. Hawthorn won with a goal
in time-on after trailing for most
of the game. In the other game
Geelong (with full-forward Wooller
getting eight goals) beat Footscray
13.15-10.15.
Australia having already
won the series, N.Z. ran away
with the third Rugby League
Test 28-12 in Sydney—a
fairish sort of form-reversal
after Australia’s 38-10 win in
the second Test. N.Z. com-
pletely outplayed Australia on
the day ; six tries to two.
In Sydney’s Rugby League
round on Sunday, St. George
only just held-out youthful
South 17-14, East surprised
North 10-4, Canterbury held
West to a 10-all draw —West
was, in fact, lucky not to be
beaten —Manly crushed New-
town 26-7 and Balmain handed
out similar treatment to Parra-
matta 27-11.
* * *
In Sydney’s Rugby Union,
in a hard game, Randwick beat
injury - weakened Gordon
18-13, each side scoring three
tries. ’Wick now heads the
table on its own, former co-
leader Manly being surpris-
ingly downed by North 14-11.
St. George, level with Gordon
in third place, had a good win
over University 20-11, East
and Parramatta drew 8-all,
and Drummoyne, scoring four
tries to one, registered its first
win of the year, over not-so-
strong-either Eastwood 16-11.
In Dunedin, Otago beat the
British Isles 26-8, holding the
Lions scoreless in the second
half.
• * *
Australian sculler Stuart
Mackenzie proved conclusively
that he’s the world’s No. 1
amateur sculler by winning for
the third year in succession the
Henley Diamond Sculls. In the
previous two years it was the
Russian Ivanov whom he beat;
this year it was an American
Navy lieutenant, Harry Parker.
A clear win for Mackenzie
each time.
* * *
In Sydney Federation Soccer
on Saturday, unbeaten Prague
coasted to a 3-1 win over Bal-
gownie, Apia beat lowly Con-
cord 4-1, Sydney Austral
tossed Budapest 3-2, Corrimal
headed Bankstown in the last
few minutes 4-3, and Glades-
ville and Granville drew 1-all.
On Sunday Hakoah beat
Canterbury 1-0, while Auburn
and North Side drew 1-all.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.K. PRINTING STRIKE
'T'he strike in the U.K. print-
ing industry has made this
week’s “Additions” mailbag
pretty light; so it may be as
well to begin with some
editorial comments on it.
London “Sunday Times”
sees it as a “catastrophe for the
industry, both masters and
men. It is, or will be as its
repercussions grow, a cata-
strophe for the nation. And it
is a blot on commonsense in
industrial relations.
“All government, industry,
finance and commerce run on
print. So do hospitals, the
Health Service, the Post Office,
charities, schools and univer-
sities, science and medicine,
transport, distribution, enter-
tainment. Eventually, if the
strike goes on, one activity
after another is liable to grind
to a stop for want of printed
material: instructions, notices,
forms, catalogues, packaging,
stationery, tickets, timetables,
examination-papers, company-
reports, prospectuses, cheque-
books, sports - programmes,
means of statutory or other
essential publication, and all
the rest.
“What is at stake? The
unions have demanded a 40-
hour week and a wage-rise of
at least 10 per cent. Since the
provincial newspapers have
had a 40-hour week or less for
many years, for them the issue
is a simple wage-claim. In
effect it comes down to wages
for the master-printers also;
for overtime is the general
practice, and a shorter basic
week would mean, for the
most part, not shorter hours
worked but more pay for over-
time.
“The employers offered a
rise of 2\ per cent., linked with
an increase of efficiency
through relaxation of restric-
tive practices. The unions
refused to accept any such
condition. Arbitration was
proposed by the employers but
rejected by the unions.
“Restrictive practices are
really the heart of the matter.
Wages in the industry are
already relatively high, and
they could without harm be-
come higher if the unions
worked for productivity rather
than job-protection.
“Hitherto they have had their
way in this because the industry
as a whole has been prosperous
and costs could be passed on.
Now it is threatened by keen
foreign competition and by
new substitutes for traditional
printing-methods: on the press
side, a number of local news-
papers are highly vulnerable
and may not survive the strike.
Even if, after the strike is over,
the jobs are more highly paid,
there will be fewer of them —
a fact which the printing-union
leaders do not advertise to
their members.”
London “New Statesman,”
on the other hand, claims that
—London “Observer.”
TEA-BREAK AT THE GENEVA STUDIOS.
“in what appears to be mainly
an argument about the level
of wages in the industry, there
is an important issue of prin-
ciple.
“This arises from the
demand, by the unions, for the
40-hour week —a demand that
is going to be followed by
similar requests from the elec-
tricians and the engineers, and
may be endorsed by the
T.U.C.
“In previous years, the em-
ployers backed by the
Government —have picked out
one particular wage-claim as
the ground on which to fight
out the battle for the coming
12 months. Once an agree-
ment was reached —say, with
the railwaymen for an
advance of 3 per cent., then
the other outstanding claims
have normally been settled on
much the same basis.
“Since several unions have
indicated that they will be
raising the 40-hour week
demand in the near future, it
seems that the printing industry
has been chosen as the scene
for this year’s major engage-
ment. Indeed, at an early stage
in the dispute, the master-
printers told the unions that to
grant their request would be to
set a pattern for a general
reduction of hours all round.
The printing employers, that
is, have chosen —or been chosen
—to hold the line in what is
expected to be the first of a
series of disputes about the
length of the working-week.
“This means that the print-
ing dispute must be seen in a
wider industrial context, for
any reduction in the working-
week has much greater reper-
cussions than a straightforward
increase in wages. So far as
the printing industry is con-
cerned, it would of course
mean higher wages; a good
deal of overtime is inevitable,
and overtime rates would
apply that much sooner. That
is, in fact, the employers’ main
argument against the demand:
they regard it simply as a
disguised wage-increase.
“But when the unions reply
that they are genuinely
interested in shorter hours,
they are undoubtedly follow-
ing a trend that has run
through the last century of our
industrial history, interrupted
only by the labor-shortages
caused by two world wars. The
struggle for the Ten Hours Act
was one of the great social
movements of the 19th century:
its achievement helped to
humanise the conditions of
work and spur technical
advance. Each important
reduction of hours has had the
effect of increasing efficiency,
though each has been strongly
resisted by industrialists, who
have always argued that they
could not afford it.”
London “Economist” can-
not see, the dispute in this
wider context:
“Wage-bargaining at the
end of the three-year-wage-
contract in the printing
industry is always liable to be
settled only after an explosion,
as events in both 1950 and
1956 showed ; 1959 looks like
being no exception.
“In part, this is a reflection
of basic attitudes in the
industry ; in part, it stems from
the disinclination of the unions,
whose workers are among the
highest-paid wage-earners and
thus least well placed to touch
a mediator’s soft heart, to
submit their case to arbitration.
“As a result, adjustments in
printing wages take place
through a process of straight
bargaining. Each side uses its
full tactical strength (especi-
ally strong on the highly
organised union side) and
hardly bothers with the moral
assertions common in most
industries. There is little ques-
tion of any settlement setting
a precedent elsewhere.”
London “Observer” cannot
see that either of the parties
to the dispute has much to be
proud of:
“The unions were certainly
wrong in refusing arbitration—
as they also did in 1955. (They
were still more wrong in
threatening, even if unofficially,
to cut off the “News
Chronicle’s” ink-supplies for
saying that the disute might
bring some papers to an end.)
“The decision of the master-
printers to put the workers on
a daily basis as retaliation for
their ban on overtime was also
stupid and provocative. And
finally the Newspaper Society,
many of whose members
strongly disapproved of the
master-printers’ action, was
surely very weak in not making
its voice heard before that
decision was taken. Even those
weeklies which are printed on
contract, and therefore dis-
claim all responsibility, must
surely have some influence.
“The actual rights and
wrongs of the dispute are
excessively complicated and
are themselves a perfectly
reasonable subject for bargain-
ing. But it is plain that the
employers, however strong
their case, have no hope of per-
suading the unions to end
restrictive practices and to
accept important new mechani-
cal improvements until they


F*uUi in ihe
FuiMre
!§§§g
\
In our great cattle lands of the Northern
interior where no railways exist, the only
alternative to the carriage of stock by road is a
drove of weeks and months —at eight miles a day.
It is a wearing, wasting process to walk the
cattle in; one which Australia, with its rising hopes
in the export of beef, cannot afford.
It is satisfying, therefore, to see the system of
road-trains being developed for the transport of
cattle, sheep and pigs from remoter areas beyond
the railheads.
Of the estimated 70,000 head of cattle to leave
the Alice Springs district this year, almost half
the number may be delivered by road transport
from outback stations to trucking yards. And on
the Barkly Tableland, four or five of the
best-known stations should transport 30,000 to rail
at Mount Isa, Queensland.
My satisfaction in this stems from the fact
that I introduced the first road-train to Australia
and put it to work in the Northern Territory. It
served distant stations with mail and thousands of
tons of supplies in addition to transporting stock,
and covered no less than 300,000 miles before
being replaced by modern post-war equipment.
This type of vehicle is now run by dozens of
operators in the Northern Territory and Queensland
for the transport of station supplies, equipment
and cattle.
The pattern for the. future has been set, and
within a few years we will see road-trains in general
use in the Far North, but only if a well-designed
system of formed roads is provided.
The time for these roads is now.
After 1961 the Meat Agreement with Britain
will allow Australia access to the world’s markets
without restriction. We have the cattle to cater for
any market. And we will meet that demand only
by providing the roads and transport necessary to
shift the cattle from farther places in the hinterland
to the various ports for export.
If railways are regarded as too expensive for
the development of our vast spaces, then roads must
be built and private enterprise with modern units
and hard-working truck crews will do the rest.
have restored the men’s confi-
dence in their management.
Putting up notices of dismissal
is not the right way to go about'
this.”
Russian Jewry
"W HENEVER Soviet policy on
any issue becomes in-
explicably paradoxical, it has
evidently just been subjected to
violent debate in the top party-
echelons and is approaching
final determination.”
Thus Judd L. Teller, writing
in New York “Herald Tribune”
about Kremlin policy on Jews,
which “is now under serious
reconsideration”:
“The facts about the status
of Soviet Jewry are familiar
by npw. The Soviet Jew is
designated on his identity-
papers as belonging to the
Jewish nationality. This singles
him out as an alien in all the
Soviet republics and accords
him secondary consideration
when he applies for employ-
ment or admission to educa-
tional institutions.
“First priority is given to
nationals—Ukrainians in the
Ukraine, Russians in Russia,
Uzbeks in Uzbekistan. Not
having a republic of his own,
the Jew enjoys priority no-
where. Alone among the
nationalities of the U.S.S.R'
the Jews are not permitted to
maintain newspapers, theatres
and publishing-houses in their
own languages. Yiddish and
Hebrew. Their last cultural
institutions were liquidated,
along with hundreds of their
leaders, in 1948. They have
not been restored since.
“Faced with these facts,
Soviet officials have denied
them. There can be no anti-
Semitism under Communism,
they have blandly replied, and
there is no need for Yiddish
cultural institutions because
Soviet Jews prefer to assimi-
late.
“Yet these questions have
persisted. Foreign delegations
visiting the Kremlin have
posed them to Khrushchev
himself. Anastas Mikoyan was
asked about the Jews on his
visit to the United States.
There have been defections
from the Communist parties in
the free world, and there is
festering schism inside their
ranks over the Kremlin’s dis-
crimination against the Jews.
“Howard Fast, the novelist,
led defection from the Com-
munist party in the United
States. In Britain, Professor
Hyman Levi, mathematician
and a party theoretician, was
expelled from membership
after publishing an expose of
Soviet policy toward the Jews.
However, - debate inside the
party in Britain continues, and
its theoretical organ, ‘Marxism
1 oday,’ has carried in several
of its recent issues statements
both criticising and defending
the Kremlin’s policy.
“Soviet reaction to this
mounting avalanche of criti-
cism has been schizophrenic,
and never more so than in
recent months.
“There has been, on the one
hand, tough reaction. More
and more'Teuilletons on abuses
in Soviet society single out as
villains persons with Jewish-
sounding names. The most
recent and vicious attack of
this kind was published in
‘lzvestia’ on February 15.
Attacks on Judaism as reac-
tionary and subversive have
been appearing regularly in the
Ukraine press. These have
been explained away abroad as
part of a general anti-religious
campaign. However, only in
the case of the Jews has this
From "Die Zeit,” Hamburg.
oral campaign been accom-
panied with mounting repres-
sion.
“There has also been evi-
dence of striking relaxation. On
the occasion, last February, of
the 100th anniversary of the
Yiddish humorist Sholem
Aleichem, the Kremlin ordered
issuance of a commemorative
stamp. The entire month was
dedicated to commemorative
rallies. A Yiddish one-volume
edition of his ‘Selected Works,’
the first Yiddish volume to
come off Soviet presses since
1948, was processed through
censor and printer and placed
on sale within 15 days.
“Normally, it takes six
months before a book is pro-
cessed. It is significant, how r-
ever, that although the book
has been published in an edi-
tion of 30,000, it is almost un-
available in the U.S.S.R.:


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM O. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in aU States Agencies in all Country Centres
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/r
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
most of the edition has been
exported to Jewish population-
centres in the free world. The
Yiddish theatre has, not yet
been restored in the U.S.S.R.,
but a Yiddish song-recitalist,
Nechama Lifshitz, has been
sent on a concert-tour to
Vienna and Paris.
“More important straws in
the wind are two recent state-
ments by Ilya Ehrenburg, the
Soviet writer, and a Jew him-
self. In an essay, ‘On Reread-
ing Chekhov,’ published in the
magazine ‘Novi Mir,’ he ex-
patiates on Chekhov's defence
of Captain Alfred Dreyfus,
who, at the turn of the century,
was the victim of an anti-
Semitic plot in France to
protect the true culprits of an
espionage plot by pinning the
blame on Dreyfus, a Jew.
“Nothing published in ‘Novi
Mir’ is without topical rele-
vance. Ehrenburg was evi-
dently suggesting to Soviet
writers that they might emu-
late Chekhov in relation to
present-day Soviet anti-
Semitism. Several days earlier,
on passing through Paris,
Ehrenburg confided to a
private reception that he could
not quite assimilate because
anti-Semitism still prevails in
the U.S.S.R. ‘and everywhere
else in the world.’
“If Soviet Jews were per-
mitted to depart for Israel, no
more than 100,000 would avail
themselves of the opportunity,
he said.”
That Verdict
TX7hen an all-white jury in
’ * Tallahassee (Florida) con-
victed four white youths
charged with raping a Negro
girl, but saved them from
execution by a recommenda-
tion of mercy, the “New York
Times” commented:
“It is understandable that
some Negroes viewing the
Tallahassee verdict are bitter,
convinced in their own minds
that if the girl had been white
and the rapists Negro the
latter would have been con-
demned to death. Under-
standable as this attitude may
be against the dark pages of
the past, those who hold it are
wrong.
“What happened in Talla-
hassee was a triumph for law
and order. The honor and
integrity of a Negro girl were
recognised as equally sacred
before the law with those
same qualities of any girl. The
defendants were tried fairly
and convicted. And all this
happened in a Southern city.
Beside those facts the recom-
mendation for mercy is essenti-
ally a detail.”
Trouble in Kerala
'T’hree London weeklies
comment on the campaign
to dislodge the Communist
Government of Kerala (India):
“Time and Tide”: “The
Communists did not come to
power in Kerala on a wave of
From “Thought,” New Delhi.
pro-Communist feeling, but
rather on anti-Congress and
anti-Socialist discontent which
had been aroused in India’s
most literate population by the
inadequacy of a succession of
corrupt State Governments.
“Having once been elected,
the Communists mean to stay
in office until the expiry of
their term in 1962, and Mr.
Namboodiripad, the Chief
Minister and one of India’s
most brilliant Communists, has
already gained the sympathy of
most of the liberal thinkers of
India by his handling of the
situation.
“The present trouble began
with the new State Education
Act, which transfers the control
of schools to the State. This
means that henceforth the
Communists will select the
teachers and will supply the
schools with suitably written
textbooks. Many of the private
schools in Kerala are run by
the Roman Catholics and other
Christians, who in their agita-
tion against this bill have been
joined by the Socialists, the
Congress party and the caste
Hindus, who for centuries were
the big landlords of the State,
and whose influence is being
undermined by the Com-
munist Government. This
strange conglomeration of
people, all of whom want to
get rid of the Communist
Government, is not united in
method or ultimate aim.
“Mrs. Indira Gandhi, now
president of the Congress party,
pledged herself in her first
major speech on accepting
office to unite all democratic
forces behind a plan to force
Communism out of Kerala. So
far, however, despite the events
in Tibet, there is no sign of
such unity developing, although
the strike that has been called
by the anti-Communists has
closed most of the business-
offices and shops in the main
towns. The hopes that violence
could be avoided have proved
unfounded. So far Mr. Nam-
boodiripad has kept his Com-
munist-party members off the
streets, but he has made it quite
clear that he will not yield to
agitation.”
* * *
The “New Statesman” : “In
the troubles that have, arisen,
he [Namboodiripad] has the
law on his side and is in
a position to demand the
support from Delhi that any
non-Communist State Govern-
ment would expect to receive
if it faced a Communist or
communal rising. Mrs. Indira
Gandhi, who was recently in
Kerala, reported some irregu-
larities and Communist-party
bias in the Administration. But
there is probably less to criticise
in the way of corruption or
nepotism in the present Govern-
ment of Kerala than there was
in its Congress predecessor, or
than there is still in some other
State Governments.”
* * *
The “Observer”: “In effect
the Opposition is using un-
constitutional means. The
Kerala Government has a
majority in the State Parlia-
ment. It cannot be dislodged
by Parliamentary action. Con-
gress, which is supposed to
stand for Parliamentary pro-
cedure and for Constitutional
rectitude, puts itself in the
wrong by going behind the
back of Parliament and using
‘direct action.’ It is true that
the Communists in similar cir-
cumstances would not hesitate
to act un-Constitutionally. But
that is no reason for a local
Congress party to do so.
“The campaign is the more
dubious because safeguards
exist against Communist dic-
tatorship in Kerala. If a State
Government acts un-Constitu-
tionally, the Central Govern-
ment is under a legal obliga-
tion to intervene and supersede
it.
“Probably, the local Con-
gress is trying to force Mr.
Nehru’s hand by creating dis-
order, and he may soqjn find
himself pushed further than he
desires to go. Mr. Nehru must
know that if the precedent of
direct action is established, the
Communists will use it next
against Congress in other
States of the Indian union.
Direct action will be a
boomerang. The Roman
Catholic Church, which insti-
gated the local Congress party,
may also one day regret its
tactics.”


Established 18fi8
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
O'SUIAJVan
PTYITD A,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
holding the floor. Who could
answer the description as well
as Robert Morley? Then
there is Felix Aylmer, as the
quiet-voiced, philosophical Sir
Patrick Cullen ; Alastair Sim,
as the rather sinister-looking
Cutler Walpole, always want-
ing to yank out someone’s
nuciform-sac; John Robert-
son, as Ridgeon, the doctor
with the dilemma.
Dirk Bogarde, as Dubedat,
uses an easy bantering style
to good effect, and, in the
death-scene, shows unsuspected
sensitiveness. Leslie Caron
lends an elfin charm to the
role of the purposeful Mrs.
Dubedat.
At Sydney Liberty.
❖ ♦> *!♦
“Anna Lucasta”
An all-negro cast brings
some powerful dramatic effects
to this version of Philip
Yordan’s play about the shifts
to which a respectable family
is put to marry-off a rebellious
and amoral daughter. The
story is told directly and
simply; character-drawing is
keen ; the domestic scenes are
sharp, and there is a balanced
leavening of humor. Above
it all hovers a spirit of sheer
homeliness.
Eartha Kitt’s vibrant per-
sonality and intense style of
acting serve her well in the
title-role, and the bouncing
Sammy Davis, jnr., gives her
solid support as her good-time
sailor-friend.
At Sydney Century.
“The Five Pennies”
Biographical musicals from
Hollywood must have just
about exhausted the stock of
subjects, most of them drawn
from Tin Pan Alley. The
common denominator seems to
be the rather dull lives most of
the subjects led; and this
latest one, about a band-leader
of the ’twenties, follows the
pattern pretty faithfully.
Pleasantly light entertain-
ment, it is saved by the easy
skill of Danny Kaye as the
trumpet-playing baton-wielder
who reaches the top, gives it
away when his small daughter
contracts polio, and later,
pulling himself together, makes
a triumphant comeback. Kaye
makes the most of the few
opportunities the script affords
him of being his naturally
funny self; and, when he does
move from the sunlight into
the shadows, he doesn’t
attempt tear-squeezing for its
own sake.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
♦jt +*•*
“The Night Heaven Fell’*
Talentless Bardot, compelled
as usual to fall back on a
pout to register all emotions,
dominates this puerile melo-
drama about hot passions in
Spain. The director has
obviously been far too con-
cerned with contriving situa-
tions favorable to photograph-
ing as much of the undraped
Bardot chassis as possible to
“Every time I'm near you, Olga, I get all Wound-up.
bother about such trifles as
cogency or character-develop-
ment.
At Sydney Victory.
♦♦♦ *'!? •£♦
Sydney Film Festival
Perhaps, all things con-
sidered, the most graphic film
in the Sydney Film Festival
was “Los Olvidados” (“The
Young and the Damned”): a
Mexican film that shocked
with its blunt examination of
slum kids and their existence
in rubbish-dumps and alleys.
Pace was intensely quick;
and, though balance may have
suffered as a result, in general
it had a horrifying, magnetic
effect.
The Greek film, “A Matter
of Dignity,” revolved around
a bourgeois family who try to
keep up appearances despite
bankruptcy. The family hope
to get out of financial difficul-
ties by encouraging a romance
between their attractive
daughter (Ellie Lambetti) and
a wealthy playboy. The film
was shrewdly and often com-
passionately directed, and
there was far less looseness
than in a previous film by
Michael Cacoyannis, “Wind-
fall in Athens.”
Except for the woodenness
of Jana Brejchova, as the
young lady who precipitates a
break-up between a chemist
and his domineering wife,
“Wolf Trap,” the Czech film,
was really something; and
this despite a perfectly triangu-
lar plot, modified only by the
climax, when the girl realises
the difference between love
and puppy-love.
There were two French
films. In “The Seine Meets
Paris” you met a rich variety
of people lining the water-
front: students, fishermen,
loafers, etc. It was hardly
what you’d call a conclusive
film, and the background-
music jarred.
West Germany was repre-
sented by seven films, of
which “The Captain from
Koepenick” was sometimes
mildly funny. The central
character is a cobbler and
petty thief (Heinz Ruhmann)
who falls in and out of prison
and eventually, in a captain’s
uniform, arrests the town
mayor and becomes a sort
of minor hero. The humor,
though, is unforced, and
grows out of natural situations;
in this way it is faintly Chaplin-
esque.
There was a richly dressed
Japanese number in something
called “Kegascope,” if memory
is correct —anyway, Cinema-
Scope to you and me. Its
total effect was of colorful
charm rather than of concrete
story, although there was a
story—about a farm-worker
outwitting an amorous
philanderer.
Finally, a brilliant little
Canadian cartoon : “Le
Merle,” in which a pattern of
triangles and circles arranges
and rearranges itself in in-
verted birdlike shapes to the
strains of a French chanson,
showing just what could be
achieved with the barest
ingredients.
A. W.


belonged to an Air
Force family. She had
been running wild and free in
the bushland about the
Woomera rocket-range and
had been induced to take up
domesticity by the son and
mother of the family. Mitzi
found that domesticity had its
compensations—more time to
sleep and no boring exertion
to fill the stomach, and so she
became tame —up to a point.
It was when the family was
transferred to Ipswich that the
trouble started. Mitzi killed
fowls. Out of sheer whimsy
it seemed, for she never ate
her kills. Strong punishment
did not deter her. Nothing
deterred her until her owner
began keeping her in a
specially reinforced fowl-run
(a disused one) whence she was
only allowed out under super-
vision.
And then came another
transfer for the family. They
would have to live in hotels
for a while until they found a
house of their own, and there
would be no place for Mitzi.
And to add to that difficulty
Mitzi was causing a -certain
amount of domestic un-
pleasantness, for she had taken
an active dislike to father and
had expressed her sentiments
by laying open patches of his
skin on several occasions.
And so Mitzi arrived on our
doorstep in her owner’s arms,
her fur damp with her
owner’s tears. “Mr. King will
have to put her to sleep.”
“No,” I said emphatically,
“I won't let him. She is too
lovely.” For Mitzi was a very
beautiful piece of feline
cheesecake.
Rocky, who is very fond of
cats in spite of their varied
activities in his surgery, said
mournfully, “I’d hate to
destroy that beautiful cat.”
“Surely we could find a
home for her somewhere away
from fowls,” I persisted.
Rocky was so swept away by
Mitzi’s beauty he decided to
keep her and try. Mitzi
rubbed herself affectionately
against the cage and looked at
Rocky with melting, pellucid
eyes.
Mitzi’s owner dried her
tears. We had made her very
happy. But before she left us
she warned us: “Mitzi doesn’t
like everybody, and if she
doesn’t like you —watch her!”
We kept Mitzi in a cage on
display. Everyone who saw
her agreed she was a beautiful
cat, but when they learned of
her fowl-eating habits no one
wanted her. i
Rocky warned me and the
children. “You are not to let
her out. She might get away
from you and then we’ll have
a fowl-eating cat loose in the
neighborhood.”
T)ut Mitzi had such friendly
eyes. Her cage was small.
The girls kept asking could they
let her out? And I was tender-
hearted. That night, when
Rocky was on a call, I brought
the cage to the kitchen, shut
the doors and windows, and
opened it.
Mitzi was delighted, and
showed us how delighted by
rubbing against our legs in a
friendly and loving manner. I
“And how d'you feel otherwise?”
remembered her owner’s
words, “Mitzi doesn’t like
everybody,” and was flattered
that Mitzi had taken us to her
heart. She purred, looked at
us adoringly and allowed us
to stroke and cuddle her. She
was so busy demonstrating her
affection for us there was no
time to eat the juicy morsels
of meat I had put down for
her.
And then, because Mitzi
was such a good, loving cat we
shut all the doors and windows
in the house and let her have
full range. She made thorough
inspection of the house while
I was cooking dinner.
Later there came a shriek
from Younger Daughter:
“Mitzi scratched me!”
“You shouldn’t tease her,”
I reproved.
“But I didn’t do anything
to her. I wasn’t even looking
at her. I just walked past and
she reached out and scratched
me.”
The story could not be
correct, I decided, as I
hurriedly took a peek in the
oven. Still, Mitzi had such
splendid offensive weapons at
her command, I’d better put
her back into her cage. Then
another call from Older
Daughter this time. “Mitzi is
scratching behind the sofa.”
“Move it, then!” I yelled.
“Get her out of there. Call
her!” I turned the gas-flame
down and raced to the scene,
prepared to cope.
If Mitzi had to go—well,
there was no place in the
house. She came from behind
the lounge and rubbed against
my legs. Poor Mitzi! I must
do something. Why not a
lead and take her to the
garden? She seemed to
approve of the idea of the
lead when I put it on her.
It was not until I started to
pick her up that she rolled on
to her back, extended all her
claws, bared her teeth and
snarled. She showed more
than a faint resemblance to
the M.G.M. lion as she
lashed her tail furiously. Even
then I thought she wanted to
play. But she glared at me
and defied me in a very
unplayful manner, and my
courage was not equal to her
defiance.
After that, Mitzi ranged
about the house in a belliger-
ent way, the lead trailing after
her, and the children retired
to their bedrooms and shut
the doors. I was left alone
with the problem of how to
get a stirred-up Mitzi back in
her cage before Rocky returned
home and said “X told you
so.”
She staked a claim on a
spot on the dining-room floor
about 2ft. from the dining-
room table, and the area
within range of her claws was
Mitzi territory. There she lay,
complete with lead, making no
attempt at active attack, but
snarling if I so much as looked
at her, and sweeping wide
areas of the dining-room floor
with her angry tail. If Mitzi
suddenly decided to become
active there would be nothing
left of me but bits and pieces
when Rocky arrived home late
for dinner.
She was at least 2|ft. long
from her nose to the end of
her tail and must have weighed
over 201 b. She was as
variegated of color as she was
of disposition—white, ginger,
black and with spots of grey.
She had the long hair of the
Persian, and, sprawled there on
our dining-room floor with
her tail threshing, looked like
a fur rug with a propeller.
CJhe was still at her station
when Rocky arrived. He
strode up to her briskly. “I
thought I told you not to let
her out of the cage. Where’s
the cage?”
He bent to pick her up.
Mitzi spat and turned half on
her back, claws and teeth
bared.
Rocky retreated and, stand-
ing with his hands on his hips,
studied the situation. “What
have you done to stir her up
so?” he asked plaintively.
I didn’t trouble to answer.
“And now what are you
going to do to get her back
in the cage?” was the best
follow-up he could think of.
“I’ll get her back,” I said
airily, vowing I would if it
was the last thing I ever did.
And from the way Mitzi was
acting it well might be.
, “You’re not to touch her,”
he ordered. “I’ll get her back.”
He sighed deeply. He was a
long-suffering husband who
always had to pay for his
wife’s folly.
Older Daughter came edging
into the room. “Will Mitzi
have kittens?”
Rocky looked at his
daughter as though she might
be losing her mind. “If she
does, God help the human
race, but I doubt if there’s a
tom brave enough and fierce
enough to court her.”
“But will she?”
“Who’d want to breed from
her?”
“I’d like one of her kittens,”
persisted Older Daughter.
Mitzi lashed out with her
claws at Rocky’s trouser-legs,
causing him to retreat and
Older Daughter to retire to


£5OO to
PA
IN TAX
This Year and
Each Year
(or the Next 5 Years
A strictly Limited Offer of
Outstanding Tax Savings
Opportunity to Recipients
of
Higher-than-average
Incomes
Particulars
Interview.
by
For
Personal
Appoint-
nient, ph'
one-
D. M. CLARKE
& COMPANY
Tax Consultants
11 Randle Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALTER STEPHEN FITZGERALD
of 16 Downing Street Brisbane. —TAKE
NOTICE that PATRICIA FITZGERALD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3265
of 1958 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
such petition you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint Build-
ing Macquarie Street Sydney by the Ist
September 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. L. B. FEENEY & CO., Soli-
citors, of 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
DOYLE, Wjlliam Thomas, formerly of
Mahonga Street, Condobolin, who dis-
appeared from his home in November,
1933, or any person knowing his where-
abouts since that date, please communi-
cate with THE PUBLIC SOLICITOR,
55 Market Street, Sydney.
claim-form on the counter in
front of Dogsbody.
“Your full name, address,
the branch and the nature of
the account, Mr. Dogsbody,”
the manager said.
“We’ll send an urgent tele-
gram to them, and should have
the reply later this morning.
One thing this bank does not
want to do, Mr. Dogsbody, is
cause any form of inconveni-
ence to its clients. They are
our life-blood, sir.”
The dignity which Dogsbody
put into the act of accepting
a pen from the assistant-
manager, quickly reading the
claim-form, and then com-
mencing to write his name, was
wonderful to see.
The manager and his
assistant watched him gravely.
Dogsbody wrote . . . Then
he looked up at the bank
calendar for the date. He
wrote no further. Very casually
he replaced the top on the
assistant-manager’s fountain-
pen. Slowly, he folded the
claim-form and put it in his
pocket.
Blandly he said: “Look,
this will have to wait, Tin
afraid. I recall that I have an
appointment . . . Good morn-
ing.”
He left them speechless as
he turned on his heel.
As he walked from the bank
he took a casual, closer glance
at the bank’s calendar as he
passed it. He looked not so
much at the date, but at the
bank’s seal and name above it.
On the steps, he looked
diagonally across the traffic at
the building on the other
corner.
No doubt about it. He’d
been in the wrong bank all
right.
the bedroom. “And I’d like
her hide,” he muttered.
He collected the cage from
the kitchen and placed it beside
Mitzi. Her eyes blazed and
she thumped her tail. She was
ready to engage if he was. A
stalemate was reached, and
Rocky decided to have his
dinner and think over tactics.
This he did with a running
commentary of what he
thought of Mitzi, and every-
thing he thought was deroga-
tory.
Then he cast a few general
remarks in my direction. “She
could have torn you to pieces
—or the children.” Then he
began reading the evening
paper with his meal.
I was working in the kitchen
a few minutes later when I
felt something rub against my
legs. And there was Mitzi,
her old lovable self again. Her
eyes were gentle and she was
purring. I put down a tenta-
tive hand. She rubbed it with
her nose. I picked her up,
carried her to her cage and
quietly put her in. She lay
there contentedly and dis-
played not the least sign of
resentment when Y removed
her lead.
A few minutes later Rocky
folded the evening paper, put
it down and arose briskly.
“And now I’ll have to get that
cat” He stopped speaking
to stare at Mitzi in her cage
contentedly washing herself.
“I told you not to touch her!”
he stormed. “Show me your
hands!”
I did. “Not a scratch on
them. She’s easy to handle,”
I told him smugly, “when you
know how.”
Mitzi had a split-personality.
I let her out of her cage often
in the next few days and it
was always the same. First
she loved me, then she turned
on me, but if I waited until
she got over her turn I could
do anything I liked with her.
“We can’t keep her in a
cage for ever,” protested
Rocky. “And she’s too anti-
social in every way to turn
loose on an unsuspecting
populace.”
I agreed but . . .
One morning Mitzi wasn’t
there when I went to feed her.
I didn’t ask about her, but I
noticed the City Council truck
called later. And Rocky
seemed very angry about some-
thing. He hadn’t liked what
he’d done. What he’d had to
do. I wept —only a few tears,
though. My tears seemed
ridiculous, like weeping over
a dead snake.
TSertie was a recluse. He
lived in a dark corner be-
hind a sitting-room chair. He
had voluntarily shut himself
off from the outside world
except for brief visits. He
wouldn’t appear even for his
food, which had to be brought
to him.
When nature called, Bertie
raced to the garden, dug
frantically, relieved himself
and then—for he had not lost
all sense of cat delicacy—
hastily covered the hole and
streaked back to his self-
imposed isolation - ward as
though a dozen dogs were on
his tail. Nothing more would
be seen of Bertie until the
next call of nature.
Occasionally, though, he
would be heard; he would
burst into snarls, growls and
yeowls as though defending
himself from an enemy trying
to invade his corner behind the
lounge chair, although there
was not another critter in the
room. Bertie seemed to be a
case for psychiatry and
psychosomatic medicine, but
when finally rounded-up by
his owner he was found to
have lice and tapeworms.
Enough to make any cat growl
at himself.
The cat woman had 20 cats.
One room of her beautiful
home was turned-over to them.
A cat-walk led from their win-
dow to the ground so they
could come and go as they
pleased. Each cat had its
own box and cushion. When
something was wrong with one
of her cats it had to be seen
then, not later in the day, or
an hour later —but then.
She was a sweet old lady,
and since no one deliberately
distresses old ladies, the cats
were seen as soon as possible.
The population was stabilised
when the female cats were
spayed. But the sweet old
lady belonged to that school
of feminine thought which
holds that a man is master of
the household and must never
be thwarted even in his plea-
sures,; and so the “man cats”
were not “done” and went in
pursuit of their pleasures, com-
ing home battered and foot-
sore for Rocky to patch up.
Esther had a loose tooth.
It was sticking-out at an
angle and cutting her lip. She
sat quietly on the table and
looked at us. Rocky lifted her
lip and took the tooth between
forcdps and pulled. Esther
cast him an inquiring look.
Rocky pulled again and Esther
said, “Meow,” and placed a
gently restraining paw on his
hand.
“It’s firm,” said Rocky.
“We’ll have to give her ether.”
He decided to try again. “It
wouldn’t take much to puli it.”
He gripped the tooth and
pulled harder. Esther placed
both paws about his hands,
but she didn’t use her claws.
She had claws ; I saw them.
Rocky pulled still harder;
finally he held her head firmly
in one hand and pulled with
the other and the tooth came
out. Esther shook her head
and cast him a hurt look, then
she lay down on the table and
started grooming herself.
Esther is my dream-cat, but
a real cat none the less. I
have seen few like her. True,
there are cats who do not
object too much to an
examination. It’s the ones
who object that I object to.
And they are many.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Migrant Colonies
There is a good deal of
criticism much of it ill-
informed, I think —of migrants
who persist in speaking their
native languages, observing
national customs and living
together in racial colonies.
Certainly the seeming spread
of foreign tongues can discon-
cert native Australians, and
pockets of “little Italics, ’
mostly in cities, engender a
sense of subtle “invasion” that
is often a jolt to our national
complacency. Yet this can
hardly, be said to justify
criticism of what is merely the
natural behavior of people in
difficult circumstances.
National groups might well
be challenged if their density
and size unduly delayed
assimilation, but it’s doubtful
whether any present group does
that.
Admittedly a minority of
migrants take the easy way out
and are prepared to live in-
definitely among compatriots.
On the other hand, national
groups, at least temporarily,
serve a sound purpose. They
are effective halfway-houses
for newcomers; they supply
interpreters, guides, friends
and philosophers, countering
loneliness and homesickness.
In short, they help their people
to a sense of “belonging” and
useful citizenship. And they
can do this better than any
puiely Australian organisation,
no matter how well inten-
tioned it may be.
Before the Hungarian revolt
in 1956 there were probably
no more than 15,000 Hun-
garians in Australia, but soon
after Hungary’s ordeal about
the same number w'ere given
sanctuary here./ That they
made the change successfully
can be largely attributed to the
unity of Hungarian nationals
already established here.
Consolidated areas of Euro-
pean nationals are probably
like “staging-camps.” The
concentrations remain, yet
there is a constant inflow and
outgo, the more adaptable
migrants settling down with
less and less help from their
own folk ; the more timid
taking longer, perhaps never
quite adjusting themselves
fully.
It’s not only the Italians and
Hungarians who stick together.
So do the Dutch, Germans,
Yugoslavs. Greeks and Poles ;
and it doesn’t appear to delay
assimilation. Indeed, the
Dutch and Germans, who are
among the most concentrated
groups, are noted for their
industry and the comparative
ease with which they adopt
their new land.
In any case, the process of
integration must take two or
three generations. The second
generation may be expected to
ease itself gradually away
from the old culture, provided
it learns English and goes half-
way in mixing with Old Aus-
tralians. — Xavier (Vic.).
International
“Unity Tickets”?
In London, Mr. Menzies was
stressing the menace of spread-
ing Communism in Malaya,
Siam, “and possibly Indo-
nesia.” In Bangkok, Seato was
expressing similar views. In
many parts of the world the
outlook for the future of the
British bases in Singapore,
which now have the soie pur-
pose of strengthening the
forces against Communism in
South-east Asia, was being
assessed as precarious.
Elsewhere there were warn-
ings about a projected Russian
base in Yemen w'hich would
bring the Soviet to the Indian
Ocean and allow it to plan
against East Africa and per-
haps Western Australia; dis-
cussions on the acceptability
of assurances that bases on
which Russians are squatting
in Antarctica would not be
turned to military uses ; talks
on the idea of a naval base at
Darwin or Cockburn Sound,
on the vast improvements of
the Woomera rocket-range
(now a priority target in cer-
tain circumstances, with
British and American weapons
to be tested there), on the new
Army base at Wewak, and on
several other subjects of alarm-
ing urgency for Australia.
All this was happening
simultaneously with the pre-
liminary skirmishings for the
A.L.P. State conferences in
Melbourne, Sydney and
Adelaide and during the meet-
ings themselves ; but it didn't
seem to strike any of the
political or union delegates as
ironic that this was the inter-
national background to a
Labor-party dilemma which
-stems basically and insistently
from the close relations be-
tween willing or indifferent
members of that party and
astute and dogged Commu-
nists bent on the destruction
of Labor and of the whole of
the rest of the fabric of Aus-
tralian life.
Except in Victoria, there
seemed to be tacit agreement
to say as little as possible on
the unity-ticket issue, which
epitomises the reason why
Labor has been out of Federal
office for almost a decade and
why, until it seizes the nettle,
it will continue to lose.
Communists in Australia are
fully aware of the relationship
between their activities here
and those of their Chinese and
Russian comrades in the near-
north. Most informed Aus-
tralians are equally aware, and
“Native superstition—prehistoric bunkum! Even if it
still existed it'd be too old to have any teeth!"
it seems impossible that any
politicians or union-leaders in
the Labor ranks are too be-
sotted in their petty and often
imaginary grievances against
the “boss” to understand just
what is happening a few miles
away.
The unity-tickets which so
suit the Communists in Aus-
tralia all aid the cause of
“unity” between subversive or
ignorant Australians and the
Communists intent on wreck-
ing the new and struggling
democracies of Asia and Africa
and capturing their vast
resources and their immense
populations.
It is a grim and sinister
picture with the background
getting nearer, clearer and
deadlier every day. “United
we stand” used to be a Labor
slogan. With this kind of
“unity” the whole nation could
well be doomed to fall. —
Charles Meeking (N.S.W.).
Industrial Safety
“Xavier’s” observation that
the crux of the industrial-
accident problem seems to be
“apathy by both employers
and employees” (B. 24/6/’59)
comes pretty close to the truth.
Throughout industry there is
a regrettable tendency to echo
the sentiment of that Dickens
character who said: “Accidents
will happen in the best regu-
lated families.” We have our
accidents occasionally, firms
admit, but so does every other
business; and, anyhow,
workers’ compensation covers
it pretty well.
Unfortunately compensation,
even on the liberal terms
awarded nowadays, doesn’t go
anywhere near covering the
hidden costs of accidents,
Employers investigating the
cost to the business of an
employee’s injury have been
astounded at the results. Even
a minor accident involving
only a few days’ absence from
work can be expensive: tem-
porary replacement of an
employee usually means delay,
a reshuffle of jobs and reduced
efficiency all round to say
nothing of the administrative
expense involved. In some
industries the real cost to the
business has been estimated at
roughly three times the amount
of workers’ compensation—a
heavy burden if accidents are
frequent.
Compensation insurance, or
course, must be paid-for by
industry on an inequitable
basis: premiums are assessed
as a rule on the accident-rate


WOLFES
WOLFES toiJSAfW the gin spirit with a difference
ONE A DAY —FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
By jove sir! You’ll enjoy
the bright difference of
drinks mixed with Wolfe’s
Schnapps. It’s more
than a gin spirit. It is
a distillate of Malted
Barley containing not
only an infusion of
Juniper but also of
other aromatic
herbs and berries j
found in no
other spirit.
be damned
if I’ll
buy less than
the finest
spirit...
WOLFES
YA
• TRY WOLFES
SCHNAPPS WITH
TONIC AND
LEMON, ADD ICE
TO TASTE.
5 oz. bottles, 4/3
13 oz. bottles, 14/-
26 oz. bottles, 25/?
prevailing in the industry, not
on an individual firm’s record.
The most effective method of
reducing accidents has been
found to involve making safety
somebody’s direct responsi-
bility. Appointment of a full-
time safety-officer has often
paid handsome dividends.
Unless safety is somebody’s
special job, both management
and employees tend to be
apathetic. In smaller businesses
employment of a full-time
safety-officer is rarely practic-
able ; but much can be
achieved by giving a suitable
man the special responsibility
of seeing that precautions are
observed, that the equipment
is checked regularly and that
all employees are constantly
reminded of the need for
proper care. — Wusslean (Vic.).
Pensions
A word in praise of the
Repatriation Department and
its handling of service-pensions
(B. 24/6/’59).
Wounded in War I, I have
drawn a pension ever since.
Three years after
my pension was made per-
manent, and I haven’t filled-in
a form since. Neither has my
wife.
Some years ago Repat. sent
round a form to service-
pensioners suggesting that it
would save the department and
the pensioner time and work
if the pension was paid into
the recipient’s bank-account
and the appropriate form for
signature was enclosed. I
signed and returned this, and
my pension is paid into my
current account every quarter.'
Any increase in pension is
automatically added without
further reference to me.
This service is, I believe, still
available to any service-
I pensioner, irrespective of
whether the pension is for life
'or from year to year. —Tone
Emma (N.S.W.).
Soaring Land Values
“M.F.D.” sounds a timely
warning to property-owners on
what to expect in the V.-G.’s.
triennial land-valuations next
year (B. 3/6/’59); but, really,
what hope has the ordinary
home-owner of successfully
challenging the ex - parte
decision of this authority,
depicted a little while ago by
Ted Scorfield as one of two
black crows gloating over land-
owners as carrion ready for
the feast. (The twin, it will
be remembered, was that cheer-
ful fowl Death Duties.)
For the reasons stated by
“M.F.D.,” the average home-
owner, as distinct from the
landed property-holder, shrinks
from engaging in litigation
with a Government instru-
mentality, especially if it means
approaching a superior court.
“M.F.D.’s” dictum that “the
only ones likely to get off in
1961 are those who, in the
meantime, have made soundly-
based appeals against the 1957
valuation,” is grim. What con-
stitutes “a soundly-based”
appeal?
The real aproach for redress,
as I see it, is through the
more vulnerable local councils,
whose ramparts are, by the
way, far from shaky.
In some cases, possibly the
majority, the 1957 valuations
gave councils untold addi-
tional sources of revenue
which the naive landowner
believed would lead to a de-
crease in taxation. But many
were bitterly disappointed.
For example, the Blue
Mountains City’s (N.S.W.)
valuations were then increased
by some £1.4m., of which the
lower portion of the area bore
£l.l m. Nevertheless, rates
went up on 1 /1 / ’5B. And
again this year rates based on
U.C.V., and special charges for
ancillary services —sanitary and
water - supply have sky-
rocketed. Against these imposts
there is no appeal!
The personnel of a council
can be changed at election-
time ; but where does that
lead? Let’s face it. In the


highly complex business of
local-government today the
bureaucrats are on top and the
elected representatives of rate-
payers play only a minor role
in council affairs.
I have before me the busi-
ness-paper of a special meet-
ing of a council assembled to
strike its rate a year or so back.
It consists of over 140 typed
sheets of highly technical,
mathematical and analytical
data on which, after a pro-
tracted evening meeting, the
rate for the ensuing year was
assessed. No one, of course,
would maintain for a moment
that this business-paper was
thoroughly canvassed. Council
officials would skilfully pilot
the estimates through the
various stages to a pre-
determined conclusion.
Ratepayers can change the
personnel of a council, but the
V.-G., and also all the depart-
ment stands for, will remain.
The expedient of adding 20
per cent, to the reserve-price of
land offered for sale to offset
the effects of higher valuations
doesn’t meet the case of the
home-owner with no desire to
sell. He can’t pass the buck.
And it’s interesting to note that
an experienced estate-agent on
the Mountains has recorded in
the local press that “my office
has been practically besieged
by owners of land wanting to
sell-out as quickly as possible
in order .... to get away from
this council’s administration.”
—X. Cuseme (N.S.W.).
Language Teaching
Far from objecting to the
direct, conversational method
of teaching French, I entirely
agree with “Sir” (B. 24/6/’59)
that it’s the only system by
which fluency in French can
be attained. Like “Sir,” I
studied that language by the
orthodox method for many
“What do you know—he GIGGLED this morning !”
years ; and as a result t can
read French almost as easily
as English and know the
grammar thoroughly, but
would be hopelessly lost at
French conversation.
The point I was making is
that successful instruction by
the direct method must be
individual, or in very small
groups ; and that to attempt
to apply the method in a high-
school class of 35 to 40 pupils
is quite impracticable. On the
basis of a daily lesson of 40
minutes or so, even if the
entire time were devoted to
conversation, each student
would averaae about five
minutes a week in practice at
speaking French. Progress in
these circumstances is obviously
very limited.
Furthermore, in the case I
cited the pupils are supposed
to pass in Intermediate French
at the end of the year.
Examiners don't require stu-
dents to hold a conversation in
French ; they expect them to
be able to read and translate
simple passages, to have a
modest vocabulary and know
the rudiments of French
grammar.
Possibly ‘ the examiners, in
fixing these requirements, are
barking up the wrong tree ; but
so long as the criterion is a
written test teachers entrusted
with the job of bringing
students up to pass-standard
should be obliged to concen-
trate on the reading and writing
of the language, and shouldn’t
be permitted to indulge in
experiments aimed at getting
proficiency in something quite
outside the scope of the
examination.
Results to date in the class
I referred to indicate beyond
doubt that instruction in
examination essentials has
been neglected. It will be little
consolation for the pupils if,
at the end of the year, they
can prattle fluently in French
but are completely stumped —
as most will be —by the written
examination. — Ardoyne (Vic.).
Complacency and
Communism
A grim warning against
complacency in the face of
advancing Communist im-
perialism was given by Mr.
Justice R. Sholl at the annual
meeting of the Good Neighbor
Council of Victoria.
Mr. Justice Sholl doesn't
pull his punches. The Com-
munist plan of world conquest
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 546
Across
I—A diary to conserve with lumbering difficulty. (3-3)
4 —They have small farms for vegetables and insects. (8)
8-7-Crime expression distinguishable from the hyena's and
the kookaburra's. (12)
11 —Cared to change when put into a speed contest. (5)
13 — Army horse is. just about reaching the peak. (7)
14 — Coolidge to make variations in a most sacred place. (7)
15 — Red Indian comedian of these parts is to work as a
pedlar. (6)
17 —Don’t allow Edward to go on
when boarded-up. (6)
19 —Opposite way in which a literary
man might express himself. (7)
21 — Who doesn’t get the full face
of the bat to a doctor who bowls
with craft to check silting. (7)
22 Cable from a biblical spy. (5)
23 — The tennis area is a little spongy
receiving admirers. (7, 5)
25 — Imitate Caruso and imitate
Crosby in clink. (4, 4)
26 — Game way to cross water without
' wet feet. (6)
Down
1 — Something like a haystack of
citrus verse. (8)
2 There’s nothing particular in such
top-brass with one neckwear. (12)
3 A first-class half-century to go
crock. (3)
5 Power’s humble habitation? (5, 6)
6 Ruth after her canonisation
oath. (6)
7 Possibly a wide way to desiccate
by natural means. (6)
9—A king of Tyre greeting Aries. (5)
10 —Off to sea kangaroo wins his
freedom by it. (7, 5)
12 —See an animal dead and alive
with no Nova Scotia mush-
rooms. (11)
16 —Don’t get big! (8)
18 — Ventured to show an American
prosecutor blushing. (5)
19 — Sing in hypocritical language
with some of the incorporated
six-footer. (6)
20 — A prolific run-getter is a good-
looking boy. (6)
24 —One is in credit with such a
“bus.” (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 545.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO NORMAN JOSEPH WARNE whose
last known address was Weewondilla
Koad Warwick in the State of Queens-
land but whose present address is not
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ALICE MARY WARNE of Weewondilla
Koad Warwick in the State of Queens-
land has commenced proceedings against
you in the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane for Divorce on the
grounds of your desertion without cause
since the month of November 1954 If
you wish to defend this action you are
required within Thirty (30) days from
the date of the publication of this
notice to enter an appearance at the
supreme Court Registry George Street
Brisbane You may obtain without
charge a copy of the Writ of Summons
herein from O'MAR A
lATTERSON & PERRIER, Solicitors,
commonwealth Bank Chambers, 259
Street, Brisbane.—E. P.
i 'AKACY, Second Deputy Registrar.
LYSAGHT RURAL PRODUCTS
the
m a
to successful modern farming
As an investment ... as an insurance policy
. . . these Lysaght Rural Products bring you
extra revenue AND greater peace of mind.
They offer you positive protection against the
worst hazards that the man on the land has to
face drought, flood and fire. In the very first
year, they can save you MORE than their original
cost by preventing stock and crop losses.
And Lysaght bulk storage enables you to hold
crops till premium prices are on offer again
virtually paying for themselves in increased profit.
CHECK THEIR ADVANTAGES NOW-PUT THEM TO WORK
TO CUT YOUR COSTS AND INCREASE PRODUCTIVITY
f
i:
LYSAGHT GRAIN SILOS
Heavy gauge galvanized steel
sheet . . . easily erected . . . capa-
cities from 200 bushels to 4,500
bushels. Steel earth rings, load-
ing platforms and internal ladders
available as extras. Prices from
£4B to £453. F.O.R. Newcastle.
AUGERS:
Designed for
filling and empty-
ing Lysaght Crain
Silos. Features
. . . unique centre
drive unit . . .
working parts
fully encased . . .
adjustable chute
tube.
I W^Wmk
mm
LYSAGHT WATER TANKS
Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheet, predrilled and
curved. Supplied complete with waterproof jointing
material, bolts, nuts, washers and tools. Choice of
10,000 Gallon Flat Plate Water Tank — or 25,000,
50,000, 75,060, or 100,000 Gallon Corrugated
Tanks. Prices from £llO to £604. F.O.R. New-
castle.
LYSAGHT
GUARANTEED
PREFABRICATED RURAL PRODUCTS
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
w
LYSAGHT
UNIVERSAL
GRAIN BIN
FOR INDOOR
BULK GRAIN
STORAGE
Easily erected in less
than one hour and
quickly dismantled!
Walls of high tensile,
flexible galvanized
steel mesh lined with
rot-proofed hessian.
Rodent-proof gal-
vanized steel sheet
surround.
1,000 bushel £4O F.O.R. Newcastle
2,000 bushel £97 F.O.R. Newcastle
wmmz
«
4&jr.
I READY-TO-
LTJAUn ASSEMBLE
HAY SHED
Holds 320 more bales of hay than
a conventional hay shed of similar
dimensions. Bolted construction
permits speedy erection. Struc-
tural steel frame, fully braced.
Width 30 ft. x
Length 45 ft. x
Height to Eaves
16 ft. x Overall
Height 22 ft.
CAPACITY
4,680 BALES
PRICE £420
Newcastle.
Please send me full details on the Lysaght
products featured in this advertisement.
Lysaght Grain Silos □
Lysaght Universal Grain Bin □
Lysaght Water Tanks □
Lysaght Hay Shed □
Name '
Address
RMB No ! RP6ACC
was simple, he said: first Asia
(including Australia), then
Africa, Europe and finally
America. But, although the
fight would be on here before
it reached Europe or America,
Australians were taking less
interest in it than almost any
other people.
By contrast with the Chinese,
the Russians and the Japanese,
he declared, Australia “re-
sembled too much the fat grub
feeding happily in the sight of
the swooping bird.” Alcoholism
and gross materialism were
among our worst national fail-
ings they were “the vices of
the too prosperous, the fruits of
self-indulgence, lack of culture
and lack of intellectual interests
among a large sector of the
community.”
How truly he summed us up!
We have only to open our news-
papers to see where our
interests are largely centred —
on sport and gambling; on
luxurious living as illustrated
by mass advertising ; on liquor;
on sensation masquerading as
news; on lotteries as an easy
I road to prosperity. Little space
is given by the press in general
to intellectual subjects to
literature and the arts, or to
matters of national importance
such as education and defence.
Mr. Justice Sholl sees the
answer to the Communist
threat in “a spiritually led and
I spiritually inspired minority”
i which, he declares, “can suc-
ceed against enormous odds,
as history—including the last
two great wars —has shown.”
If he is right in his predic-
tion of the short breathing-
! space allowed to Australia, it’s
time that our spiritually in-
! spired minority took the lead.
This is not meant facetiously.
Some years ago a few thought-
ful citizens produced the “Call
to the Nation” that was to
many an inspiring appeal. But
'unfortunately there was no
organisation to follow it up
and bring its urgency home to
the community as a whole.
What we need now is a
movement, backed by the
churches, employer- and em-
ployee-organisations, profes-
sional bodies, youth-clubs—in
short, every group that stands
for something more than
merely selfish interest to
awaken the nation to its peril;
to provide inspiring leader-
ship; and to build up our
defences, spiritual and physical,
so that we can face the future
as a disciplined, self-reliant
nation, determined to survive
and preserve our traditional
liberties of thought and action,
—Wusslean (Vic.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
HOW DOES HEREDITY WORK?
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
A common source of argu-
ment in a group of
farmers is the relative import-
ance of environment and
inheritance in determining
milk-production or rate of
growth. In a short article it’s
impossible to give an accurate
impression of the “nature
versus nurture’’ story as regards
production in the dairy-cow,
so I’ll aim to do no more than
explain the elements of
genetics.
We know that certain quali-
ties are inherited from our
parents. For example, if one
parent has black hair, the kids
are likely to have it in a differ-
ent ratio from that occurring
when neither parent has it, and
it isn’t very probable for the
kids to have fair hair if both
parents have black hair.
There are certain garden-
flowers which may be red or
white. If we cross reds with
whites we gets reds, whites and
pinks. The offspring of the
whites is white, and that of the
A great improvement
in the quality of wool
produced in the U.S.S.R.
has been shown in
recent years. Such is
the impression gained
from several recent
Soviet publications. One
of the points indicated
is a substantial increase
in the proportion of tine
and semi-fine wool.
This may have been
due to large-scale use
of artificial insemina-
tion which of course
peimits wider use of
improved breeding rams.
Wool quality may be
improved and lambing
losses cut to a mini-
mum with the use of
klastrator Rubber Rings
for all marking and
tailing.
reds is red, but the pinks may
throw reds, whites or pinks.
In livestock some qualities
seem to dominate others, and
occur more frequently than
others in the., offspring. How
does all this come about?
How is it that properties of
the parents can be handed on
to the children?
“As referee, I say the only thing is for you two
to go to the summit."
All living matter is composed
of cells. In any organism,
whether plant, bird or man, all
the cells have certain things in
common. In the centre of
every cell there is a tiny round
object called the nucleus. It
tells the cells what to do ; it
organises the jobs the cell does,
whether it is a liver-cell, a
skin-cell or one of the red cells
of the blood.
In the nucleus of the cell
there arp tiny organs, which
can be stained and seen under
the microscope. These are
called chromosomes. Long
and thread-like, with irregular
dots along them, they occur in
pairs in the cell-nucleus, and
it is known that one comes
from the mother and the other
from the father.
It is also known that the
dots along the threads are
associated with the properties
of the offspring. These pro-
perties are organised, as it
were, along a string of beads,
and in the cell the two strings,
one from each parent, are
organised in same order.
The dots, called genes, are the
units of inheritance.
In the flowers instanced,
there was a gene for white and
a gene for red. When there
was both a red and a white
gene in one cell the offspring
were pink. These genes have
about the same strength, so
that when there are two the
result is a compromise—pink,
in this case, which is a mixture
of white and red.
Now, sometimes a gene is
very strong compared with the
corresponding one from the
other parent. Mendel, who
discovered these laws of
inheritance, showed that in peas
the characteristic for tallness
always showed-up, even if the
offspring had only one tall
gene and the other was dwarf.
Instead of getting an inter-
mediate height in the mixed
progeny, most were tall and
a few dwarf.
The tendency for that pro-
perty to be strong is called
dominance. Genes vary in
their strength. The dominant
ones are so strong that only
one is needed, while the very
weak ones, recessives, need
two to show an effect.
How'ever, there are genes
which are intermediate ; and,
as a matter of fact, there prob-
ably aren't many genes which
have no effect or are com-
pletely recessive when they
occur alone.
How does the great varia-
bility in offspring occur? If
the properties are controlled
by genes from each parent
arranged in a certain way on
the chromosomes, surely all
children will be the same?
Let’s take a look at just what
goes on during the production
of a new individual.
In the body of every living
thing there is a mechanism for
producing offspring. In
animals special germ-cells are
produced. These cells first
undergo a change which
makes the pairs of chromo-
somes from each parent get
quite mixed-up. Genes from
the same places along the chain
swap-over, and after the pro-
cess the genes along a particu-
lar chromosome are a random
assortment from either parent.
Next, the cells divide in
another peculiar way, ending
with the final cells only having
half the number of chromo-
somes they would normally
have. A similar process occurs
in the production of egg-cells.
The only real difference is that
one normal cell produces four
male germ-cells but only one
female egg-cell. When the
male and female cells unite,
the two lots of chromosomes
mix and give a normal com-
plement again. This fertilised
cell divides and divides many
times, until finally the different
organs start to appear.
For a while all the cells are
identical, but in time the cells
which will eventually be skin
start to form, as do those
which will be muscle, nerves,
gut, and so on. The important
thing is that all cells have
exactly the same chromosomes
and all have the same nucleus.
Every cell in our bodies carries
our personal inheritance.
in the very special case of
identical twins two individuals
grow from one fertilised cell
as a result of the mass of celfs
splitting early in growth. This
results in' two individuals
appearing with exactly the
same genetic material in both
bodies. That is why twins are
so valuable for research. (I
might add that we hope shortly
to start a collection of identi-
cal twin-calves for the Sydney
University Farm at Camden
(N.S.W.). The co-operation of
farmers in collecting these valu-
able research animals would
be of tremendous value.)
But to return to the story.
The genes are stable things,
and generally they go from
one generation to another with-
out change. However, radio-
activity, certain chemicals and
other accidents in the cell can
cause changes. That is why
it is dangerous to allow any
increase in the amount of radia-
tion to which we are exposed.
Changes caused in the genes
by radiation are almost always
bad.
For example, mutations
produced in the unborn infants
of women exposed at Hiro-
shima and Nagasaki have
resulted in a high proportion
of children with subnormal
brains. These chang e *j
occurred after fertilisation and


ENTERTAIN IN STYLE
AT THE HOTEL
METROPGLE
SYDNEY
r=:St
S 3
6 Magnificent Banquet
Rooms
• Superb Service
• Excellent Catering
The friendly helpful advice of Tho
Hotel Metropole’s experienced stall
will make your party planning a
distinct pleasure. You’ll find just
the atmosphere you want in one of
Ihe Hotel Metropole’s 6 superb
banquet rooms including... .The
Elizabeth R00m... .Princess....
Philip... .Windsor and York. All
have been newly decorated in strik-
ing modern colours and tastefully
furnished! Yes, the Hotel
Metropole is fast becoming the
smartest and most fashionable
Hotel in Sydney! Cocktail party,
coming-of-age party, wedding recep-
tion or business function —the
comfortable, relaxed atmosphere, the
superb catering and service and
magnificent setting make your party
an occasion to remember at the
Hotel Metropole.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Largest and
Most Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
while the children were still
developing in the uterus.
Even more startling changes
can occur in germ-cells before
fertilisation, but these do not
show-up immediately, because
mutations are usually recessive.
Mutation can produce the un-
usual. I have seen a bull whose
legs were so short that it
couldn’t walk about properly
or graze effectively.
The genes work by carrying-
out certain jobs in the cell.
They make what are called
enzymes. A very active gene
will make a lot of enzymes,
and so will have a big say in
what the cell does. If there
is a gene for black hair, one
alone will make enough to do
the job of two.
They also control the pro-
duction of hormones. We
know that sex-difference is
genetic, but we also know that
we can turn a hen into a rooster
by injecting hormones. We
can make male animals look
like females and secrete milk,
and so on.
It seems likely that, for
example, growth-rate is con-
trolled by the gene which'con-
trols the output of growth-
hormone, and that milk-
production is influenced by
genes controlling the output of
certain hormones from the
pituitary gland.
As regards milk-production,
things are a bit complicated.
Earlier I told how stimulation
at milking-time can' affect pro-
duction. The inheritance of a
sensitive mechanism for releas-
ing the let-down hormone
could make all the difference
between a good producer and
a bad producer. On the other
hand, if the enzymes for
making butterfat were not there
in large enough amounts no
amount of stimulation would
make a good cow. It would
always make milk with low
fat.
As the enzymes for fat-
production are probably differ-
ent from those for other milk-
constituents, like casein or
milk-sugar, you see it is rather
a problem.
However, I think we can
make progress by finding
means to estimate the hormone-
activity of a cow, so as to find
out before too late whether
she is likely to be a good pro-
ducer or not. Growth-hormone
will increase milk-production
in some cows, extra thyroxin
will do the same in others.
It seems that some animals do
not inherit enough hormone-
producing enzymes to enable
them to be efficient producers.
This is where • environment
comes in. Good management
will enable some animals to
produce better. Adequate food
is essential. Good milking-
management can enable some
cows to improve in efficiency,
presumably by producing more
necessary hormones. Some-
times the addition of a hor-
mone to the diet can help—
for example, thyroxine.
I think the day is coming
when we will be able to test
a cow while she is still young,
and so be able to estimate pro-
duction in different conditions,
and to cull if necessary with-
out the expense of feeding the
cow till she’s older, only to dis-
cover that she’s a dud.
It looks as if hormones are
the messengers of the genes,
determining the character of
the organism. We are learn-
ing rapidly about the hormone-
control of milk-ejection and
milk-secretion. In the not-too-
distant future I can imagine a
test for milking-ability which
would enable us to cull calves
before they are in milk for the
first time. It is also possible
that the problem of low solids
can be tackled in the same way.
From what I have said it will
be clear that a cow which pro-
duces low total solids has not
got enough enzymes in her
cells to do the job of making
good milk. The problem is a
genetic one, and the bio-
chemist may be able to help by
discovering a test for calves’
potential milk-producing ability
which will do away with the
problem of having a herd
making milk that sends the
owner to court.
In breeding for a particular
property, the sooner we can
detect what we want the better.
The science of endocrinology
tells us what the hormones are
up to. It may soon help the
breeder to speed-up his pro-
gramme, enabling him to have
milking-herds that are easy to
milk and are efficient producers
of milk which will pass any
test of quality.
Research along these lines
will enable us to cut the costs
of milk-production, and so
meet the challenge from com-
petitive products. Today it is
not more production we want,
but cheaper production; not
21b. butterfat where previously
we made lib., but one man
on the farm where previously
we needed two.
Research has made nylon a
competitor of wool, and mar-
garine a competitor of butter.
But science can also serve the
man on the land, if he wakes-
up in time to meet the
challenge.
Porker's Paradise
“Acacia”: At Rocklea, near
Brisbane, a stud-boar testing-
station has been opened by the
Queensland Agricultural
Department. The station
houses 40 young pigs, progeny
of 10 stud-boars, which spend
six months there and undergo
a series of checks on rate of
growth and food-absorption,
ending with carcass-appraisal.
Boars whose progeny reach the
necessary standard set by the
department will receive a certi-
ficate of performance ; so the
tests will show the,State’s best
breeding-boars and help to
improve the quality of bacon
produced.
Pens are air-conditioned at
a constant 70deg. and 68 per
cent, humidity, and special
insulation in the construction
of the building prevents animals
catching a chill. This ensures
that the same conditions are
maintained throughout the
test. Automatic drinking-
fountains are installed in each
pen, and the pigs are fed twice
daily on a balanced ration;
fluorescent lighting is installed
throughout the building, and
four men are permanently
employed in keeping the pigs’
quarters clean.
Lighting for Chooks
“ Sundowner ”: Provided
your electric-lighting is ade-
quate, the drop in egg-produc-
tion caused by short winter
days can be avoided by giving
birds about 14 hours of day-
light.
For a standard pen—2oft. by
20ft. —a 60-watt globe is
needed, and this should be
fitted with a white-enamel
reflector. Without reflectors,
globes quickly become covered
by dust and don’t throw
enough light on the feed-
troughs and drinkers in the far
corners of the pen. These
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(25/ 6/’59)
Southern Queensland and the north coastal districts
should receive good rains during July, although rainfall may
be light elsewhere. Moderate rains should then continue in
most of the State, with poor falls in far-west districts.
N.S.W. should get moderate rains during July. Part of
the Riverina and far-west districts may have only light rain,
with best falls likely m the southern divisions. Moderate
to good rains are indicated for the remainder of the year,
but heavy falls and widespread flooding are likely in
November.
Light to moderate rains should occur in Victoria
during July. There will probably be heavy falls in August,
with flooding in the southern half of the State. Good rains
should be received for the remainder of the year.
South Australia may have only light rains during July,
but g'ood rains should start in the agricultural areas during
August. Rainfall may be patchy in the interior until October.
Moderate rain is indicated in the agricultural areas of
Western Australia during July, with good falls in August.
Light patchy rains are indicated elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS "
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year— £l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight —Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965. Wellington. N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; £ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These price* include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
globes and reflectors must, of
course, be kept clean. For pens
of varying size you can calcu-
late the amount of lighting
needed by allowing one watt
for each ssq.-ft.
Lighting may be made avail-
able for any period of the 24
hours, but for hens on deep
litter morning-light is best,
because then no dimming-
device is necessary before turn-
ing the lights off for roosting.
The circuit should be con-
trolled by an automatic time-
switch, adjusted each fortnight
to compensate for changing
hours of sunlight. The lighting
should be begun in March, in
order to bring hens out of
moult and keep pullets in high
production.
Blackleg
“Bottlejaw”: Blackleg
attacks animals aged from
four to 20 months and death
generally comes without warn-
ing. You wake to find your
strongest bulls and heifers
lying on their backs, stiff as
boards, legs extended, and
gassy, crackling swellings
under the skin around shoulder
and hindquarters.
The germ—a Clostridium—
can live in the ground for a
number of years. That's why
old watering-places are fertile
sources of infection. When
animals died near the water
no one troubled to burn the
carcasses, so the germ got a
solid footing, and, years after,
these sites were blamed for
outbreaks of the disease.
Post-mortem symptoms are
unmistakable. Stiffness of the
limbs and swelling, and
crackling when the swollen skin
around the shoulders and
hindquarters is pressed, com-
bined with sudden death of the
animal, tell you all you want
to know. It’s best not to open-
up the carcass. Apart from
spreading germs, you are likely
to run into trouble if you nick
yourself with the knife, because
the blackleg germ is particu-
larly savage.
There’s no cure —at least,
none that can be used on the
CANECUTTING HARVESTER
farm. The beast is generally
dead before any symptoms
are noticed ; but the disease can
be prevented by inoculation.
Blackleg-vaccine is not a
live one, so can be handled
with safety, if usual precau-
tions are observed. The dose
of the vaccine is 5c.c., given
by syringe under the skin,
generally in the region of the
shoulder where the skin is
loose. Take care, though, not
to jab the needle into the
muscle under the skin. Both
liquid and solid vaccines are
equally effective if properly
administered. It’s merely a
matter of choice. If solid
vaccine is used a special
instrument is needed to inject
the pellet under the skin. It
doesn't cost much to inoculate
young cattle against blackleg
—runs out at roughly lOd. a
head —so the price of one beast
lost would buy enough black-
leg-vaccine to last years on
most farms.
Oestrogen Poisoning
“Kaytee”: (Estrogen-poison-
ing can be caused by feeding
pigs with soup made from
poultry-offal that includes
heads of birds chemically
caponised.
The pigs become unthrifty,
and young sows show intense
signs of heat and other sexual
activity long before they
should. Feeding capon-heads
to pregnant sows could cause
abortion and prolapse of the
uterus. Boiling does not destroy
the oestrogen pellets.
Canecutting
Harvester
“Boro-Belle”: Devised by
Sarina (Q.) canegrower J.
Venton, the canecutting
harvester pictured above
seems to hold possibilities.
Rotating blades cut the cane,
and chains then transport the
sticks up one side of the
machine, which is mounted on
a tractor. The cane falls across
the back of the tractor and an
adjustable topper cuts off the
tops. Caught in a hopper, the
cane is then dumped in the
end-loader.
At present canefarmers pay
anything from 15s. to £1 a
ton to have cane cut and
loaded, so the right machine
could mean a big saving. Cost
of this model is £l3OO.
Little-leaf
“Pyrus”: Little-leaf of apple-
trees comes from zinc-defici-
ency in the soil and may result
in the trees becoming unfruit-
ful.
First symptoms are shorten-
ing of the internodes on
terminal shoots of the tree, and
a slight mottling on the leaves.
Affected shoots do not come
into leaf until late spring, and
then their leaves are small,
stiff and clustered together.
When this happens terminal
growth stops, and if the poorly
developed wood is pruned
there is no growth 1°
The Bulletin, July 8, 1959


~t?0 .' • .
The
It EGO.
Conomatic
Here, at last, is perfection in portable space heating a blue
flame, straight-wick heater of entirely new design, as notable for
its many labour-saving features as for its neat dimensions and
streamlined elegance.
* The TILLEY CONOMATIC is inexpensive, economical, efficient and
safe. Wonderful warmth wherever you want it with unique automatic aids
to take all the trouble out of filling, lighting, extinguishing and wick control.
I
s.et
gee
e»
W'
iWr'^
~l (!'•
•vc. ■
© double warmth—from
above and below the
gold-toned grille; .
© ever-ready, quick-
lighting straight wick;
automatic accessi-
bility;
© perfect stability; safe;
easy to use; clean,
simple filling;
© fashionable two-tone
design a thing of
beauty in any
surroundings
J
The Tilley Conomatic burns for up to 42 hours
on only a gallon of kerosene. Output range :
6,250 8.T.U./hour at maximum. 3, 570
8.T.U./hour, at minimum setting.
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Australia.
In case of difficulty write for name of your nearest stockist to:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON W.S VICTORIA
Phone : FX
replace it; so the tree gradually
becomes smaller and useless.
The deficiency cannot be
rectified by applying zinc to the
soil; instead it should be mixed
with water and sprayed on the
foliage. The rate recommended
is 251 b. zinc-sulphate to lOOgal.
water, sprayed before pruning,
during July or early August.
The treatment should be
repeated the following year,
and thenceforward every second
year. If it’s impossible to
spray before pruning, wait for
three weeks after this operation,
so that the liquid does not come
into contact with the freshly-
cut wood and cause injury.
If the trouble is severe, spray
at double strength: 501 b. zinc
to lOOgal. water.
Fertilisers
“Billjim”: New fertilisers,
particularly expensive ones like
potash, are best tried-out in a
small observation - paddock,
where you can compare them
with previous practice. This
is also applicable to any of
the trace-elements which land
may lack.
The best way to set about the
job is to fertilise a paddock
ready to be cut for hay and
leave three or four drill-strips
untreated for comparison. The
effects of the fertilised areas
will be apparent in the spring.
To check the response of addi-
tional fertilisers, choose a
paddock which has been fre-
quently mown and topdress at
usual rate with superphosphate
and any trace-elements thought
to be lacking. Then sow sub.-
clover at 51b. an acre, and put
on the potash in drill-strips at
two rates: 2cwt. an acre and
lcwt. an acre. Repeat this
treatment at least once in the
same paddock 'and mark the
strips by pegs. Be careful to
note the results.
If the paddock is not to be
cut for hay, fence off an area
one chain square and make
sure it is stockproof, because
cattle and sheep have a liking
for pastures treated with
potash. Part of this fenced-off
area can be topdressed in the
usual way to give you a com-
parison.
The full benefit of potash
will not be seen if there is a
serious deficiency in zinc or
copper. So if the area on which
you are experimenting hasn't
received these minerals in
recent years it should first be
given a basal dressing of super,
containing zinc and copper at
the rate of one bag an acre.
Histomoniasas
“Myall”: Histomoniasis for
blackhead), a disease attacking
turkey-poults up to eight weeks
old, may cause heavy losses
unless treated in its early stages.
It is caused by a minute
parasite, which enters the caeca
(or blind-gut) of the poult, kills
the tissues, and then works its
way into the bloodstream and
liver, producing lesions from
which the infected bird eventu-
ally weakens and dies.
Enheptin-T, though of little
value in advanced cases, is an
effective preventative. Pro-
curable under that name or
under various trade-names, it
must be used strictly in accord-
ance with the instructions on
the label.
As a means of prevention,
rear poults in cages by them-
selves, separated- from other
poultry, which are often
carriers of the parasite or of the
caecal-worm. During the hatch-
ing-period give the mother-bird
phenothiazine in mash for two
days, at the rate of loz. to 101 b.
food. Any older poults, turkeys
or fowls likely to come into
contact with the young birds
should be given the same two-
day treatment —14-lb. pheno-
thiazine to each 2501 b. mash.
Parasites remaining in the
blind-gut of the poults enter the
caecal-worms and finally pass
out inside their eggs. Thus
protected, they can survive for
long periods on the ground.
Those from the liver are passed
out normally, and quickly die.
Treatment with phenothiazine
kills the ccecal-worms internally,
thus severing the life-cycle of
the parasite and giving young
poults a reasonable chance of
reaching maturity.
Crosscuts
“Ag. Sci.”: To reduce soil-
erosion, a new system of land-
usage tried at the Kairi
Regional Experiment Station,
Atherton Tableland (Q.), com-
bines dairying and maize-
growing in an eight-year pro-
gramme—four years of pasture
followed by four years of other
crops before land is again
returned to pasture. In the
first eight years, soil-erosion
was checked, maiie yields
(60-70 bushels an acre) were
maintained, and milk-produc-
tion averaged 2|gal. a cow a
day. Meantime new pasture-
species are being examined.
“Ivan Jumbuckski”: Russia
may soon outstrip Australia in
its sheep-population, which,
now over 140,000,000, has
doubled in the last 10 years.
The Russians are second only
to us as a wool-producing
nation. At present their jum-
bucks yield s|lb. of wool a
fleece, but with further indoc-
trinisation they should shortly
be making it 81b. to 111 b.
“Ruro”: Even if wool-prices
are down, the volume of rural
production for 1958-59 is 8
per cent, higher than ever
before. The scales have been
tipped by cereals, cane, tobacco
and meat, and the rise is 16
per cent, over last year,
though actual values are only
6 per cent, higher.
“Darling Downs”: Smallest
sheep-station in Australia is
probably at Runcorn (Q.).
E Sirrett, who owns six acres
there, recently made applica-
tion for registration as a stud-
breeder. He runs Border
Leicesters and hopes to build
the flock up to 30 —with quality
as the goal.


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO NOEL LEONARD GILLETTE late
of 28 Church Street Lidcombe.—TAKE
NOTICE that NORMA DAWN GILLETTE
lias filed a Petition for Divorce No
1163 of 1959 on the ground of ‘deser
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discre-
tion under S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by 14th September 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. F. C. BRYANT & CO.,
Solicitors, of 5 Bligh Street, Sidney.—•
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO LESLIE KENNETH HAYNES late
of Dubbo in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE ' that IRIS
ELIZABETH HAYNES has filed u Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1658 of 1959 on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 14th
day of September 1959 and obtain a
copv of tiie Petition without charge
from MESSRS. McGUINN & McGUINN,
Solicitors, of No. 56 Church Street,
Dubbo. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO REX MERVYN PF.MBLE late of 4
Wellington Street Woollahra. —TAKE
NOTICE that STELLA MURIEL
PEMBLE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1705 of 1958 on the grounds of
desertion without -just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by' the 15th day of September
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from PATRICK A.
BOLSTER, Solicitor, of 1 Carlton Street,
Granville, by his City Agent, KEVIN
E. BRADY,' Solicitor, of 47 Phillip
Street, Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of Handy Hints For The
Farm. —6843.
Marks And Monograms On China
And Pottery, by W. Chafers. Vic-
toria And Its Metropolis, Past And
Present, 2 vols. (2nd in particular).
The Colony And Its People in
JBBB (published Melb., McCarron,
Bird, 1888).—6844.
Information Sought
A recipe for brown bread ?
Warm a basin and put into it
l|lb. wholemeal with a teaspoon
salt. Make a hole in the middle,
leaving a layer of meal at the
bottom. Put ioz. compressed-yeast
into a smaller basin with a teaspoon
ol sugar; stir together until creamy.
Add to them half-a-pint each of
lukewarm milk and water and
strain into the middle of the meal.
Work-in some of the meal with
the fingers until a batter is formed,
sprinkle dry meal over the top and
cover with a towel. Leave the
basin in a warm place for about
an hour, or until bubbles form
on top of the batter. Then mix-in
the meal from the sides until a
softish dough is formed, using more
liquid if necessary. Knead lightly,
divide into two or three small
greased tins, half-filling them, cover
again with the cloth and set to
rise in a warm place. When well-
risen, bake the bread in a moderate
oven for an hour or so. This
bread will keep longer if a little
butler is first rubbed into the meal.
* * * «
Some particulars of the largest
diamond yet discovered ?
This was the Cullinan diamond,
found in 1905 at the Premier mine
in South Africa. In its uncut state
it weighed carats (about
111 b. 60z.) as against the 186 carats
of the famous Koh-i-noor gem. It
was bought by the South African
Government for £150,000, and
presented to Edward VII, and now
forms part of the Crown Jewels.
Its value now would be well over
£1,000,000. It was cut into a
number of stones, of which the
two largest weigh over 516 and 309
carats respectively. It was named
after Sir T. M. Cullinan, a South
African mine-owner.
>.•***
Informatio’n on the Australian
Motor Vehicle Standards Com-
mittee ?
(From the Federal Chamber of
Automotive Industries.) The com-
mittee consists of representatives of
"transport-administering authorities
in all States and Commonwealth
Territories, together with represen-
tatives of organisations connected
with the manufacture and opera-
tion of commercial and private
motor-vehicles. Originally the com-
mittee was occupied in reviewing
varying State, Territorial and
Regional legislations governing
road-transport, and of developing
basic motor-vehicle standards —
maximum lengths, weights, height,
carrying-capacity of vehicles ; mini-
mum lighting, braking and other
mechanical efficiencies. The com-
mittee's object was to draft uniform
regulations to ensure safe and
economical road-transport. Review
of the different legis!ations..has been
completed; basic standards have
come into being in regard to all
listed items. The committee's
present and continuing function is
to serve as a clearing-house and
research-bureau for the receipt,
collation and distribution of data
from States and Territories touch-
ing on new and improved vehicle
standards. It also investigates over-
seas practices, besides maintaining
liaison with State and Common-
wealth transport - administration
authorities.
* * * *
Details of the 1960 Nuffield Foun-
dation Dominion travelling fellow-,
ships ?
The purpose of the fellowships is
to enable Australian graduates of
outstanding ability to gain experi-
ence and training in the U.K. in
their chosen fields, and to make
contact there with scholars work-
ing in those fields, with a view to
the fellows equipping themselves to
take-up posts in teaching and/or
research in Australia. Seven awards
will be available in Medicine,
Natural Sciences and Humanities
and Social Sciences.
Candidates must be Australian
nationals between the ages of 25
and 35, and must be university
graduates holding, preferably, a
Master's or Doctor's degree, and
having subsequently had a year or
more of teaching or research experi-
ence on the start’ of a university or
comparable institution. A fellow-
ship will normally be tenable for
one year, but in exceptional cases
it may be extended for a further
period of a few months. The
fellowship will provide for return
travelling-expenses, at tourist-rates,
of a fellow between his home resi-
dence and the U.K., and, if he is
married, similar expenses for his
wife. An adequate allowance will
be made for the fellow’s living-
and travelling-expenses in the U.K.
and for his academic fees, books
and other incidental expenses, as
well as a personal allowance. Total
value of an award, including all
travelling-expenses, varies with the
needs and family responsibilities of
the holder, but will in no case be
less than £9OO stg.
A fellow will be expected to
resume residence in Australia when
he completes the fellowship, and he
will be required to carry out, at
centres approved by the trustees of
the foundation, a programme of
research-work and training. Other
work, paid or unpaid, may not be
undertaken without the permission
of the trustees. During the tenure
of the fellowship a fellow will not
normally be permitted to prepare
specifically for, or to take, examina-
tions for higher degrees or diplomas
awarded by bodies in the U.K. At
the end of the fellowship a fellow
must report on his work during the
period of fellowship.
Applications for fellowships to
begin in 1960 should be submitted
not later than Friday, August 21,
1959, to the Secretary, The Nuffield
Foundation Australian Advisory
Committee, Engineering Chemistry
Laboratory, University of Mel-
bourne, Carlton, N. 3, Vic.
• * • »
Is it better to protect an oil-
painting by glass or by varnish ?
It is advisable to protect it by
FLYNN OF THE INLAND
If the information (obtained
from an official source) published
on this page (B. 3/6/’59) in reply
to a request for particulars of the
Flynn Memorial Cairn had been
intended as a test of readers' know-
ledge of Australiana, it couldn’t
have been more successful. First
came a telegram from the South
Australian branch of the Flying
Doctor Service:
BULLETIN THIRD PAGE 54 FLYNNS
CAIRN STOP GRAVE SITUATED MOUNT
GILLEN SUGGEST CONFER A 1 M 44
MARGARET STREET
CHURCHILL SMITH AIRDOCTOR
Then followed a spate of letters
and photographs from all over Aus-
tralia, pointing out that the reply
had confused two memorials to
John Flynn —the cairn near Tennant
Creek and Flynn's grave at Mt.
Gillen, near Alice Springs.
With apologies to the original
inquirer and anyone else who may
have been misled, and with thanks
to all wfio hastened to _ put the
Service Department right, here is
the true record.
The Flynn Memorial Cairn stands
at the junction of Stuart (not Sturt)
Highway and the Mt. Isa Road,
near Tennant Creek (N.T.). Built
of local stone, it is a three-sided
cairn, 30ft. high, each side sur-
FLYNN MEMORIAL CAIRN
mounted b'y a cross. The inscrip-
tion on a bronze plaque reads: —
“Commemorating ‘flynn of the
INLAND,’ THE, VERY REV. JOHN
FLYNN, 0.b.e., d.d., of" the Pres-
byterian Church of Australia,
1880-1951. His vision encompassed
the continent. He established the
Australian Inland Mission and
founded the Flying Doctor Service.
He brought to lonely places a
spiritual ministry and spread a
mantle of safety over them by
Medicine, Aviation and Radio.”
The Flynn Memorial Cairn was
JOHN FLYNN'S GRAVE
unveiled by the Governor-General,
Sir William Slim, on August 27,
1953.
Flynn's grave stands in a small
national reserve at the foot of Mt.
Gillen, near Alice Springs. His
ashes are contained in a steel case
embedded in a solid plinth of bluish
quartzite, quarried from Heavitree
Gap, Alice Springs. The huge
boulder which surmounts the grave
was brought from “The Devil’s
Marbles,” a natural group about
260 miles north of the Alice. The
inscription on the plaque reads:
“Beneath this stone rest the ashes
of ‘FLYNN OF THE INLAND.’ 1880-
1951. THE VERY REV. JOHN
FLYNN, 0.b.e., d.d., First Superin-
tendent (1912-51) of the Australian
Inland Mission, Founder of the
Flying Doctor Service, Moderator-
General of the Presbyterian Church
1939-42. He brought gladness and
rejoicing to the wilderness and the
solitary places.”
The photographs reproduced
above were supplied by Mrs. M. K.
Kirke, of Ayr, Queensland, one of
the many who sent in information
about the Flynn memorials.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
varnish ; glass could be an added
insurance against damage, but it is
not necessary. An oil-painting
should not be varnished until about
a year after the painting is finished.
Special picture-varnishes can be
procured from artists’-supplies
stores. But it is not advisable for
anyone riot familiar with the tech-
nique of applying varnishes to oils
to do so with a valuable canvas, as
great harm may be done by faulty
application.
T .
„ What is" the reference to the
silver-fork school in English
literature, and who were the chief
contributors to it ?
It was the name given to a class
of English novelists who gave undue
importance to etiquette and the
externals of social intercourse. The
most distinguished of the writers
who favored this style were Lady
Blessington (1789-1849), Theodore
Hook (1716-1796), Lord Lytton
18 4-1873), Mrs. Trollope (1790-
/ion anc * Lord Beaconsfield
(1804-1881).
Brief Answers
H.A.: No information about that
particular Markham. He does not
seem to be mentioned in any book
of the period... .T.K.: The 1959
Whitaker’s Almanack stales that the
greater part of taxation in Northern
Ireland is imposed collected by
the U.K. Government. After
deducting the cost of collection, the
Imperial contribution and certain
services reserved to the U.K. Parlia-
ment, the balance is paid over to
Northern Ireland’s Exchequer. “The
contribution so made by Northern
Ireland to the cost of Imperial ser-
vices—i.e., Navy, Army and Air
Force, national debt, etc.—for the
period from 1921 to March 31,
1957, amounted to £394,174,344.
The Imperial contribution was pro-
visionally fixed at £9 million for/
1958-59”....W.A.N.: Try Roget’s
Thesaurus, price 255.; a pocket-
sized edition costs Bs. 6d., postage
Bd. Another helpful book is Pit-
man’s Synonyms and Antonyms,
price 9s. 6d., postage 6d. Your
bookseller should be able to get
them for you; alternatively, they
may be ordered from Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney... .P.J.McM.: The
Writers and Artists’ Year Book is
just the shot. You’ll find up-to-
date information on the press in
general, and as a guide to free-
lances it’s invaluable. Published by
A. and C. Black, Ltd., Soho Square,
London, W.l; obtainable leading
booksellers... .G.S_: Since brooms
thrive best when left alone, these
shrubs must be pruned only when
the growth is overabundant or likely
to interfere with other garden-
plants. Sometimes, after cutting-
back, the shrubs develop “die-
back,” or rotting in the limbs.
Should pruning be necessary, dq all
the work in July, after the new
growth has hardened. The limbs
are tubular; see that the secateurs
are very sharp, otherwise you may
bruise the shrub... .H.T.F.: The
Sydney office of the Travellers’ Aid
Society of N.S.W. is at 358 Eliza-
beth Street; the society offers help
to travellers in need of assistance
and protection. Women and girls
unaccustomed to the city, children
travelling alone, elderly and infirm
men and women and those physi-
cally handicapped are included m
the service. Advice is available and
emergency accommodation is
arranged... .P. 8.: No information
on that settler. Why not try the
Australian Society of Genealogists,
Lanark House, Phillip Street,
Sydney? .... J.T.: The breed is a
deservedly popular member of the
terrier group—hardy, game, and a
fine house-dog. From 221 b. to
241 b. is the average weight of the
best specimens. No special atten-
tion needed to keep this dog in
good condition. Occasionally an
otherwise good dog shows a faint
trace of white on the chest; for a
pet this does not detract from its
value, though for show purposes
it would A.M.G.: John Van
Druten’s play, “Young Woodley,”
was first produced in London in
February, 1938... .S.L.L.: The
Commonwealth Franchise Bill,
assent to which was given on June
12, 1902, gave women the power to
vote at Federal elections... .R.M.:
The term mont-de-piete, applied to
the modern pawnshop, had its
origin in Italy. An establishment
authorised by the Pope, it was
purely benevolent in character,
money being lent to the poor on
the sole condition that the advance
had to be covered by the value of
the pledge G.H.: Only an expert
could set a value on that piano;
the make is not well known, and
none has been imported into Aus-
tralia for many years.... T.Y.: The
verb “enter” is both transitive and
intransitive: whilst “Australia
entered into the trade” is grammati-
cally correct, the “into” would be
redundant.. . .D.S.W.: The initials
stand for District of Columbia....
D.F.V.: The word “barricade”
comes from the French “barrique,”
or barrel. Its use stems from the
riots in Paris in 1588, when the
King called-out his Swiss Guards
after Henri de Guise returned to
the capital in defiance of the King’s
orders. The mob piled-up barrels
filled with earth and stones, from
behind which they shot-down the
Guards H.D.: Cockatoo Is. is
the largest of the islands within
the waters of Port Jackson. It
stands about midway between the
Long Cove and Lane Cove
estuaries. Average height above sea-
level is about 50ft., area, 32 acres.
. ...W.D.S.: Not a chance in the
world of there being such a “throw-
back” N.C.H.: (1) and (2)
Write Shipping Newspapers, Ltd.,
16 Bond Street, Sydney.... R.S.:
No information on that hair-treat-
ment, and cannot even suggest
where you could find out.
THE HOLLIDAYS'
W e didn't come all the Way from Sydney to Hong Kong just for you to order steak-and-eggs!"
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
L.M.: It ambles along without
really getting anywhere T.T.:
Come again, half as long and twice
as fluently... .F.D.: Some merit in
the second stanza... .H.L.: The
point escapes you 8.P.: The
editorial axe crashed on the
mutineers... .J.D.: Just about hope-
less... .R.E.: Yes, but the bit
about the herons wading around
the mangroves didn’t ring true....
T.F.: The metho.-drinker was
politely but firmly escorted off the
premises H.J.H.: It doesn’t say
anything new; or, rather, what it
says isn’t fresh A.C.: Stick to
pottery-making M.M.: The girl
was worth a second look S.D. :
Needs drastic cutting and polishing.
P.C.F.: All those yapping
dogs!.... V.M.: Writing is more
than just filling sheets with typing
—however neat the typing may be.
.... W.R.: Try a sporting-magazine.
. ...L.1.: Your description of
Queanbeyan is good; why not try
an article instead of a short-story?
. ...G.F.: Throw out the opinions,
sharpen and come again G.H.:
Not ours T.A.M.: Dry.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Ocean-going sheep, peeping coyly
from portholes of liners converted for
their exclusive use, were among travel-
lers who left Australia last week on
goodwill-missions abroad. One hopes
not only that the animals don't suffer
too much from seasickness but that they
succeed in impressing on American
housewives how good Australian mutton
can taste. Perhaps if Londoners had the
same opportunity, chops would soon
replace the kipper as traditional breakfast
on Sundays, or even for the high-tea,
when Australian visitors assert the usual
way of preparing them in digs, is to toast
them over a candle!
# V
Much of the gaiety of the week was
due to the enthusiasm with which
American Independence Day and Cana-
dian National Day were celebrated by
nationals and locals alike.
The Royal tour of Canada gave a more
personal interest this year to the latter
celebrations. At the Pickwick Club,
Canadian flags and maple-leaves decor-
ated the room, and more than 150 guests
were welcomed to a buffet-party by
Canada’s Acting Trade Commissioner
Stewart Hay and Mrs. Hay. Among them
were U.S. Consul-General Frank Waring.
Mr. and Mrs. Rex Morris, of Seaforth,
and Mrs. Charles Souter, of Bellevue
Hill.
Lighted sparklers were twirled by 1000
guests at the American Society’s Fourth
of July Ball at the Empress on Friday
night during the flag-raising ceremony,
when “The Star Spangled Banner” was
sung. The effect was particularly striking,
as were the decorations, which included
the new 49-star flag of the society.
Consul-General Waring and Mrs. Waring
greeted guests in the official party, which
included Mr. and Mrs. Keith Yorston,
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Nelson, Admiral and
Mrs. D. H. Harries, Mr. and Mrs. W. R.
Hauslaib and Mr. and Mrs. Homer R.
baulkner. There was a large group of
younger dancers, among them being Vir-
ginia Farrar, Sally Fairfax, Beverley
Cameron, David Tulloch, lan Heath and
Campbell Swan.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydney can be proud of its Town Hall
organ, which visiting Notre Dame
organist Pierre Cochereau considers is of
“world-class.” It was a pity that he had
to add, a little ruefully, “Of course, it’s
not in very good condition.” The visitor
should know plenty about organs, be-
cause he is building one at his home
in Paris, and has also played on all the
great organs of Europe.
With Madame Cochereau, the organist
was given a reception by the A.B.C. last
week, when several of his countrymen
were present to welcome them. Guests
included Monsieur Bleuzet, Madame
Brenac, Mr. and Mrs. John Menard, Mr.
and Mrs. Miot and Mrs. Merry weather.
Sydney pathologist Dr. Rohma New-
man was one of 16 candidates chosen
from 400 applicants to attend a 12-
months’ diploma - course in clinical
pathology at Hammersmith Hospital,
London, and, in consequence, is yery
busy with preparations for her departure
in September. In her busy life as a
private practitioner, music provides a
favorite relaxation for Dr. Newman, who
plays the piano. and has a large collec-
tion of recordings. She is also fond of
golf and tennis. Photo by Norton-
Trevaire.
“A Fight for a Life” is the slogan of
the Cancer and Surgical Research
Appeal, which is sponsored by the Rotary
Club of Randwick, whose members are
working overtime to make the ball at the
Trocadero on August 11 a night to be
remembered and one that will add, it is
hoped, a great deal to their target-figure
of £25,000.
Inspired by the enthusiasm of the
ladies’ committee for the ball, and fol-
lowing a visit to Prince of Wales Hospital
at Randwick last week, it seemed likely
the objective could even be doubled.
Except for the deep sadness one felt at
seeing small children among the patients,
the tour was a very interesting one.
In the special animal-hospital visitors
were able to watch a delicate bit of
surgery on a sheep, when its heart was
removed and later replaced. Inquiries
made later as to its progress indicated
the animal was doing well and kicking
as lively as ever.
The appeal is to raise more money
for such valuable research into treatment
of cancer. Later Mrs. W. J. Doyle (her
husband is chairman of the co-ordinating
committee), Mrs. R. F. Kaye-Webster,
Mrs. M. Ash, Mrs. I. S. Booth, Mrs, W.
Holmes, Mrs. J. Cassidy (who will be
hostess of the ball), Mrs. Lang Cooper
and Mrs. Tom Livesay met to discuss-
unique ways and means of raising more
money at the ball, which, they gaily
assured, would be “quite painless to the
donors.”
* * *
Film-audiences who think of Joyce
Grenfell as the hearty, toothy sports-
mistress of St. Trinian’s would never
recognise her in the charming personality
who was welcomed to Sydney at a
reception given by the management of
the Phillip-street Theatre last week. She
wore a brilliant-red turban that was the
envy of every woman in the room, and
with it a black dress and black acces-
sories. But after seeing the way she can
switch over to the former character in
quick-flash style, there was no doubt in
anyone's mind that her one-woman show
would provide as much, if not more,
laughter than a whole company of enter-
tainers.
☆ ☆ ☆
Functions ahead which threaten to
keep Sydney's residents out until early
morning (judging from the entertainment
promised) include “The Loveliest Night
of the Year” Ball (Mrs. C. Ayers is its
president; Mrs. J. Oatley country vice-
president ; and its committee comprises
a most enthusiastic group of workers for
the Smith Family). On Friday night at
the Margaret-street Assembly Hall,- Sir
Edmund Hillary will make his only public
appearance here to introduce the film
“Antarctic Crossing.” The round of
functions arranged for “The Maid of
Cotton” sounds rather strenuous for the
title-holder (but delightful for the rest
of us), and includes fashion-parades,
receptions and parties, one of the latter
by U.S. Consul-General Waring and Mrs.
Waring at their Darling Point residence
on Friday, July 17.
# V V
After driving all night from Mel-
bourne, when thick fog made visibility
almost nil for the latter part of the
journey, Mrs. Maurice Ashkanasy (wife
of the Melbourne Q.C.) reached the
Bellevue Hill home of her daughter and
son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Graham de
Vahl Davis, on Friday in time to snatch
a brief rest before motoring on with
them and their small daughter Shelley
for a holiday at Surfers’,Paradise. They
were joined later by Mr. Ashkanasy, who
flew from Melbourne.
V
The Black and White committee
intends to make money for its cause
(Royal Blind Society) by presenting what
its members rather pessimistically
describe as “the first and last” perform-
ance of “Call Me Coward,” which they
state is completely lacking in professional
talent, and which will follow the evening
performance of Joyce Grenfell at the
Phillip-street Theatre on July 24.
Champagne and sandwiches will follow


the performance. Tickets at three-guineas
and two-guineas a seat may be obtained
from Mrs. Robert Mansfield or Mrs.
Rudi Tolnay, of the Black and White
committee, Royal Blind Society, Sydney.
Insisting that she has too much to do
as stage-manager of the revue, Mrs.
Evelyn Crossing is not in the cast, but
it includes fellow-members Prue Pratten,
Mrs. Bob Webster, Mrs. Ken Hill, Mr.
Dickie Keep and is headed by president
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere.
MELBOURNE
Posies of red, white and blue flowers
tied with matching ribbons decorated the
official-table when the Australian-
American Association celebrated Inde-
pendence Day with a luncheon in the
Royale Ballroom, and individual tables
were decked with tiny Australian and
American flags. Guest-speaker was Mr.
Paul McGuire, former Australian Ambas-
sador to Rome. Association-president
Sir John Latham, with Lady Latham,
received the official guests ; these were
the Lieut.-Governor, Sir Edmund Herring,
and Lady Herring; Chief Justice Sir
Owen Dixon and Lady Dixon; Federal
Treasurer Harold Holt; U.S. Consul-
General Graham Hall and Mrs. Hall;
Mrs. R. G. Casey; the Minister for
Labor, Mr. Reid (who represented the
Premier) and his daughter, Dr. Sophie
Reid ; and Mr. J. J. Doyle.
A very elegant trio were Mrs. Harlow
Gage, Mrs. J. M. Saunders and Mrs.
T. a’B. Travers. Mrs Walter Killough
(who with her husband will leave for a
trip to the U.S. in September) chose a
natty black-and-white wool suit and a
wide bandeau of white Arctic-fox fur.
A sparkling brown eye-veil was worn
by Mrs. Lionel Newton with her pastel-
pink wool coat. She was accompanied by
her daughter, Mrs. Verna Linton, whose
choice was a suit in China-blue tweed.
With Mrs. T. Wallace Mitchell were her
son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and Mrs.
Dudley Gordon. Mr. Justice Spicer and
Mrs. Spicer, Lady Selleck, Dr. Deborah
Buller Murphy and Mrs. Alfred Fowlet
were also at the luncheon.
* ☆ ☆
The American Women’s Auxiliary to
the Royal Children’s Hospital named its
July 4 ball —always a memorable func-
tion —Alaskan Fantasy, in honor of
Alaska’s having been made the 49th State
of the Union. Decorations appropriately
included a backdrop which depicted a
gigantic Eskimo emerging from his igloo,
behind which glowed * the Aurora
Borealis. Every pillar in the ballroom
was covered with a cardboard snow-
covered tree, and on every table was a
cardboard figure wearing a red felt parka.
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, was
accompanied by his son-in-law and
daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Robin Byrne, the
latter wearing a lovely full-skirted gown
of hyacinth-blue satin, the strapless
bodice of which was encrusted with heavy
sequin- and pearl-embroidery. They were
welcomed by the auxiliary-president Mrs.
A. Klestadt and her husband. Mrs.
Klestadt’s gown of tangerine silk-organza
was embellished with black velvet
applique at the waist.
In the official party were the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Sir Frederick
and Lady Thomas (her formal gown
of sea-green silk-taffeta was worn with
a white Arctic-fox stole); the president
of the Royal Children’s Hospital, Lady
Murdoch; Sir Arthur and Lady
Warner; U.S. Consul-General Graham
Hall and Mrs. Hall; Mr. and Mrs.
Walter Killough (her gown was of rose-
pink chiffon); Dr. and Mrs. L. V. Collins;
U.S. Consul William Ryan and Mrs.
Ryan; Dr. and Mrs. W. Braun (her
classical gown was a sheath of white
satin, and in her hair was a glittering
diadem); and the president of the
hospital’s auxiliaries, Mrs. A. J.
Mclntosh, and Mr. Mclntosh.
Mrs. Mark Clements, a former
auxiliary-president, wore a stunning gown
of off-white corded-silk; to the back
of the strapless bodice was attached two
wide black silk-lined panels which could
either float free or be worn as a stole.
Mrs. Richard Frank wore a white satin
sheath-gown, the strapless bodice em-
broidered with tiny pearls. Mrs. Jeffrey
Macartney’s gown was of wine-toned
chiffon patterned with a matching-wool
polka-dot. All proceeds from the ball
will be given to the Royal Children’s
Hospital.
Sue Spring, only daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. Emmet Spring, of Brighton, was
educated at Mandeville Hall; from there
she went on to Invergowrie. Now Sue
is doing the handcraft course at Red
Cross headquarters. She is a member of
St. Vincent's Hospital Younger Set, which
will hold its Black Mantilla Ball on
July 9 at the Royale Ballroom. Margaret
Bolton (WA 5754) and Lisbeth Clowes
(50-3070) are ticket-secretaries.
Winding-up the July 4 celebrations
was the coffee-and-liqueurs party given
by the Younger Members Group of the
English Speaking Union in their South
Yarra clubrooms, at which U.S. Consul
William Ryan and Mrs. Ryan were
guests-of-honor. The group's newly-
elected president, Ronald Thompson,
received the 80 guests assisted by hon.
secretary Jean Cameron and hon.
treasurer Betty Nutting. Guests included
Mr. and Mrs. William Banks ; Mr. and
Mrs. Andrew Hardie (with them was
Graham Hardie, home for a short visit
after studying music for eight years in
Paris); Tony Carpenter (vice-president
of the group); Anne Dixon (her father,
Sir Owen Dixon, is president of E.S.U.);
Pamela Middleton, Janet Macleod,
Megan Sheil, Angela Strachan and Mr.
and Mrs. John Ely.
☆ ☆ ☆
Canada’s National Day was celebrated
with a late-afternoon reception at Ciro's
given by the Commercial Counsellor
for Canada, Mr. T. Grant Major, and
Mrs. Major, the latter wearing a frock
of champagne-toned organza featuring
fine tucking and lace insertions on the
skirt. The Canadian flag and plaques
of the provinces were features of the
decorations. Guests included Minister
for Labor Reid and his daughter, Dr.
Sophie Reid ; Opposition Leader C. P.
Stoneham and Mrs. Stoneham (her
midnight-blue brocaded frock patterned
with peacock-blue flowers worn with a
matching blue pillbox-hat); Cr. Howard
Norman and Mrs. Norman (the latter
in black frock and cap of saffron-yellow);
Sir Norman and Lady Robinson ; Thai
Consul H. I. Fader and Mrs. Fader;
University Vice-Chancellor Sir George
Paton and Lady Paton ; Mrs. Arthur
Wilks ; Mrs. L. J. Dooling; Mr. and
Mrs. L. Gillam Hunt and Dr. and Mrs.
W- A. Westerman.
V V #
Mrs. Garnet Carroll wore a magnifi-
cent black-satin theatre-coat embroidered
with clusters of red roses and green
leaves when she attended the premiere
of “The Tunnel of Love” at the Princess
Theatre. With Mr. and Mrs. Carroll in
their box was Shirl Conway (who starred
in “Aunti Marne”) and Dr. and Mrs.
Keith Fairley. Just back from a trip
to the U.S., Mrs. Norman Lynch wore
a turquoise-blue coat, the fox-fur collar
of which was dyed to match. Mrs. Ronald
Marriott’s short sheath-frock of white
satin-brocade carried a wide sash of
corn-gold satin, Mrs. Dorothy Gitsham’s
black-satin frock with its sparkling Dior
beads was worn under a mink coat.
Two elegant dressers were sisters Jennie
and Eileen Brennan. Mrs. Michael Pate,
whose husband stars in the play, wore
with her emerald-green frock a theatre-
coat in watermelon-pink faille. Fred
Parslowe and Joan Harris (who were in
“A untie Marne” and who have
announced their engagement), Sir Arthur
and Lady Smithers, Mr. and Mrs. James
McGauran, the Leo Guests, Mrs. Rupert
Downes and her daughter Mrs. James
Campbell were others who attended.


has been called to London to super-
vise a film of one of his books, and
everyone says Oh, how beautiful (you
rat!).
When William is found stabbed
twice and poisoned once, and every-
one is claiming to have done it, it is
a bit of a disappointment. In this
book as in her first book, the author’s
commentary has the charm of a mono-
logue by a little girl, unused to
visitors, who can’t tell you everything
quickly enough. (Parents say: “Hush;
hush! No one is interested in.... ” and
“Really. I don’t know how she
imagines all these things....” but on
it goes, and who can blame the visitors
for listening?) But when Detective-
Inspector Swinton begins investigat-
ing, this commentary tends to dry-up.
The reader is even expected to
sympathise with some of these charac-
ters he has just seen so caustically
dissected, and the story grows more
like one of those cold meat-pies the
detective-inspector is so fond of. Never-
theless. its development as a mystery
is much tighter than in Mrs. Flower’s
previous book. Altogether, it would
be high praise to say that she is getting
both worse and better.
Out of the Jungle
The world is so civilised or at least
so accessible these days, that it is
always a little surprising to find —even
if we have them on our own doorstep
- —places still wild enough to make
the genuinely adventurous travel-book.
The principle which preserves them
seems to be that if they are sufficiently
vile nobody except their own savage
inhabitants, and the explorer, will
want to go near them; and the Upper
Amazon and Orinoco basins in
Alfonso Vinci’s Red Cloth and Green
Forest (Hutchinson) are certainly most
fetchingly vile.
These places have a peculiar kind
of flying insect, large and iridescent,
which lays its eggs in your ear; and
these, in the short time of three days,
hatch into fat white grubs which
nibble your membranes, causing ex-
cruciating pain. Giovanni, the one of
Vinci’s companions who was chiefly
afflicted with them, hooked them out
one at a time with a piece of fine steel
wire. There are also, of course, the
mosquitoes, which cover the naked
babies of the Indians in a cloud.
There are panthers, snakes, alligators
and man-eating fish; and. the remark-
able ant-population, on which Vinci
dwells in loving detail, does not seem
to have been at all reduced since first
it fell upon the first South American
travellers:—
The biggest of them all, the most
intelligent and individualistic, is the
one which in Venezuela they call
the “Twenty-four” because any
part of the body which receives its
sting is paralysed for twenty-four
hours . . . The conga ant, a strange
elongated creature equipped with
mandibles which grip like a sur-
geon’s forceps, is more vivacious
than the Twenty-four and more
unpleasantly aggressive . . . The red
ants give the impression of some
vast army of people invading Earth
from another planet . . . Black ants
of medium size smell of rancid
butter. The long liana-like clusia-
roots overhanging the stream-banks
. . . offer a home to hordes of small
ants which burst out to the attack
with an aggressiveness that takes
one’s breath away. But there is one
species which is worth the whole
insect-world put together. It is the
smallest and most terrible the
candilita. Invisible, omnipresent,
this ant is the very microcosm of
evil. It is ferocity’s own sting.
Stung, bitten, poisoned and generally
maddened as they made their way up
the silent black streams in search of
nothing in particular—soil-samples to
analyse for micro-organisms; with
some interest in rare plants and a
faint hope of diamonds —Vinci and
his Italian companions (not to forget
the mysterious American girl, Jean,
who dropped-out half-way and took
to chanting in the moonlight) -found
the native inhabitants also sufficiently
vile.
The tamer Indians on the fringe
of civilisation lived placidly enough,
giving each other hair-cuts by nipping
off the locks with their sharp finger-
nails and, at all intervals of leisure
(which were practically continuous,
seeing that there is no word for
BELMONTE’S PROLOGUE
To the 1606 Voyage of Quiros.
O for the gift of tongues and prophecy !
For these heroic mysteries require
The voice of Elders chanting solemnly
Over a sea of glass mingled with fire.
While all creation bears the under part.
Let the resources of our fictive art
Thrill to such tones, burning with new
desire. ,
To chart in verse the voyage that 1 took
In youth and hope to seek the Great
South Land; '
To shut the sounding Ocean in a book
By verbal spells; charm to an ampersand
Each curling seahorse ; teach rough waves
the dance
Of formal metre —might one not sooner
chance
To draw out huge Leviathan with a
hook ?
Yet harder still to map that inward vision
Or spiritual cosmography, whereby —-
As Noah in the vessel of derision
Raised from the Flood a new humanity
Under the rainbow ; or that later Ark
Rides on baptismal waters to embark
Mystical Adam, the whole company
Of settlers bound for a new heaven and
earth —
To our rapt minds this seemed a passage-
rite :
A new Jerusalem would come to birth,
An eight-day world, created in despite
Of the demonic darkness of the age.
These vanished meanings of our pil-
grimage
Trouble my mind and heart now as l
write.
My life’s concerns have seemed like ships
dispersed
On different coasts without a rendezvous ;
A set of unrelated roles rehearsed
Without a play ; jig-shapes belonging to
No single puzzle. Now the parts combine,
And I begin by unforeseen design
To do the work that l was born to do.
Therefore I have less care who shall
approve ;
For poems in this kind are out of fashion,
Together with the faith, the will, the love,
The energy of intellectual passion
That built the greatness that we have
resigned.
1 play a match against the age’s mind :
The board is set; the living pieces move.
See the East Wind, that in the zenith
treads,
Weave the light fabric of a cloud at noon,
And fling his net of incandescent threads
To make a daylight catch of the half
moon —
That pale medusa floating in the sky ;
Then tiring swoop for better luck, to try
Puffing the light down from the thistle-
heads.
Watch too the silver gull superbly rest
On heaving Ocean out of sight of land,
Or strut with scarlet legs and snowy breast
Proud on the glassy mirror of the sand ;
Yet in a moment lose his pride and state
To snap and squabble for a piece of bait
Dropped from the angler's disappointed
hand.
So lightly may the poet’s will refuse
To hold the difficult height of the
sublime;
Soon tiring, soon distracted, it pursues
Some lesser fancy, trifling for a rhyme.
O God, amidst distractions manifold,
And in a failing world, let me uphold
A wonder-working ikon against time !
N.S.W.
JAMES McAULEY.


EVENINC UNDER LAMPLIGHT
by David Campbell
Nostalgic stories of childhood on an Australian sheep-station, presenting with humour
and delicate perception the children’s interpretation of the adult lives that surround
their own. 15/- (post 7d.)
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS AND . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
CL A UDELLE
Erskine Caldwell
Set in the warm, flat, yellow-coloured Piedmont region of
Caldwell’s native South, this novel is filled with the lives of
the country people he has made familiar to the * q
millions who have read GOD’S LITTLE ACRE. *O/“
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE :: SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
“work” in their language), exploring
their heads for the large black lice,
which they ate. They also ate snakes,
grubs and masses of pink earthworms,
like spaghetti. But they were, says
Vinci, hopelessly decadent; naked,
filthy, smelly, dwarfish; and the porters
annoyed him, as they have invariably
annoyed other travellers, by suddenly
going off home at critical moments.
They do this, he says, because “they
act upon impulse, not conviction”—
if it suddenly seems a better idea to
go home than to go on exploring,
off they go.
One of their few endearing charac-
teristics is that they keep pets, as
Uarema, miles from nowhere up the
Merevari River, kept a pet dove called
Pipa, “calling its name softly and
fondling it like a child”; but their love
for their pets, says Vinci, is “subject
to the wildest caprice” and they will
for no good reason, except that that
seems the most amusing thing to do
at the moment, turn on their favorite
monkey and use it as a target for
their arrows. Poor Pipa, as it hap-
pened, was accidentally trodden-on;
and its carcass, when Uarema dis-
gustedly threw it away, was thought-
fully eaten by the boy Sempronio
who, for his prodigious and omni-
vorous appetite, is the most amusing
and likeable of Vinci’s henchmen:—
He ate our rations. Then he ate
the special ones which the Indians
had prepared for themselves, and
on top of that he ate an endless
number of things which with great
foresight he had collected on the
way: grubs, honeycomb with brood-
cells, small fish, worms, birds’ eggs,
frogs, young snakes, palm-hearts
from young palm-trees . . . Then
he would prepare fresh delights with
the innards of any game we our-
selves had cooked. Each little
delicacy was attacked at full speed,
entrails were devoured, heads were
crunched right up to the beak, claws
cleaned of every shred of meat.
Then came the time to inspect any
bones we had thrown away . . .
Finally, after a last careful lick of
each finger, Sempronio, the little
fellow from the Shirian metropolis
of Auai, would go to roost in his
hammock over the fire which
wrapped him in its warm blanket
of heat.
If these were the comparatively civi-
lised Indians, the wild ones, the Sama-
tari, “thirty-two hills” away from the
village of his porters, were viler still.
They crept on Vinci’s camp with
arrows ready to let fly at him, howled
like monkeys, stripped him of all his
clothes and all his belongings, made
him their prisoner and, in the best
traditional style, hauled him naked
and starving over the mountains to
their village; where, everybody still
howling, the men pulled tufts of his
beard out and tried to plant them on
their own hairless chins, and the
naked, dirty women, who had some
curious beliefs about the hidden powers
of white men, subjected him to even
more embarrassing indignities.
Vinci says he was in considerable
fear for his life; but he placated the
chief by giving him his red under-
pants to wear; and, after watching the
tribe eat sand and other delicacies—
the fruit sounds really wonderful—
when he was sharing their adventures
on a long food-gathering expedition,
eventually he escaped by saying that
he was going back to his canoe to
bring them innumerable presents . . .
and so back through the jungle to
arrive precisely at the right time to
meet the plane that was to carry him
to civilisation again.
Set in such foul country among such
foul people “Red Cloth and Green
Forest” is naturally an exceptionally
attractive travel-book. It is excellently
illustrated, handsome in format,
written with spirit and humor. Alfonso
Vinci, moreover, is a most unusual
character. On previous expeditions to
South America he has found, among
other things, “the largest diamond-
mine on the American continent” and
he has published in Italy at least two
other books on his travels. They
should be worth translating: we don’t
get an Italian explorer every day of
the week.
Reviewed Briefly
Clutha Plays a Hunch: Hugh Munro
(Macdonald). Clutha is a company
detective in a big Glasgow shipyard,
and spies are after the plans and the
designer of the new submarine—plenty
of bluid. plenty of Scots’ defiance of
the laird’s leddy, but Chandler’s Mar-
lowe and Hammett’s Spade luik a wee
bit awkward, ye ken, i’ the kilt.
* * * *
Eighty-Five Poems: Louis MacNeice
(Faber). These, he says, are not neces-
sarily his best poems, but “the order
of this selection, divided in eight
groups, is intended to be significant.”
The significance of the mixture
of old and new poems tends to
escape; his poetry doesn’t cluster
together naturally, and the words of
single poems don’t come together to
make forceful patterns or progressions.
He is a poet, a sincere poet and a poet
essentially of these days, but his best
moments are in single lines, numerous
as items in a catalogue, that have little
relation one to another.
* * * *
The Affair: Hans Koningsberger
(Faber). A novel about an exiled
Dutch student in Zurich in 1944.
Bored and frustrated in his attempts
to escape from neutral Switzerland and
join the Allies, he makes up his mind
to have a love-affair; and does, in
some detail. The writing is sensitive
and the descriptions of neutral Zurich
convincing.


Here are the Facts on
m
X': •
.• : .A V
.V
i
w
J.
wmmmm
the Choice of the Experienced Man
on the Land for all Water Supply Needs
PROOF of the overall SUPERIORITY of Steel
Pipe over other types has long heen established
—is still being established—on the basis of:
if COSTS LESS—prices include all necessary couplings.
if Not subject* to damage by termites or rodents.
When laid above ground, minimum possibility of damage
by stock or fire.
if No deterioration from sunlight.
if Pressure capacity far greater than most oilier types.
if Pressure ratings unaffected by atmospheric temperature
variations.
if Less likelihood of damage during installation, storing
and handling.
if Intrinsic structural strength readily enables overhead,
vertical or building installations to be made with a
minimum of support.
These are the facts that have guided so many
shrewd buyers for so many years .
For OVERALL Performance and Satisfaction, SPECIFY
STEEL PIPE and ORDER Steel Pipe from your local
Hardware Store, Pastoral House
OR FROM
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (DISTRIBUTORS) PTY. LTD.
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong, Launceston,
Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
