

as the
HOME LIGHTING
BATTERY that’s
YEARS AHEAD
Century engineers working closely with leading battery
laboratories in U.S.A. perfected this marvellous homelighting
battery, approved by thousands of users all over Australia as
the finest battery ever made. It’s NEW IN EVERY DETAIL
—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES—NEW CONSTRUCTION
METHODS—NEW SUPER PERFORMANCE.
tOOK AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES.
• SILVIUM —the scientific additive
which KEEPS PLATES ACTIVE
WITH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY;
PREVENTS GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURY HOME LIGHT-
ING BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILVIUM.
• INBTTLT GRAVITY BALL
INDICATORS . . . show state
of charge AT ALL TIM KS.
No more messy hydrometer.
• TRANSPARENT POLYSTY-
RENE CONTAINER . . . you can
see the acid level at a glance.
• GLASS INSULATION gives
sustained power during llie
BATTERY’S ENTIRE LIFE.
BACKED BY A BULLET-PROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
(nwtw
with SILVIUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST ... BUY THE BEST ... BUY CENTURY!
SILVIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
1
'i
iz: m
m
i
smfliA iiiimii
(liiiiiNviiYfirj
These three gravity ball
Indicators white, red
and green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
AVAILABLE FROM
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
Why No Anzac Star?— page 11
Wednesday, April 22, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


BOOKHITNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
JEEPS AND SUBS .
A couple of World War II books
that are easy upon the casual eye are
Warriors on Wheels by Park Yunnie
(Hutchinson) and War Fish by George
Grider with Lydel Sims (Cassell). They
both take war 'in its less regimented
form, in which small groups fight on
their own initiative, the first as a tiny
group of commandos in jeeps; the
second in submarines.
Captain Yunnie of Inverness was the
righthand man of Major Vladimir
Peniakoff, a Russian-born businessman
who threw up his business in Cairo to
organise “Popski’s Private Army” of
jeeps to commit sabotage behind
German and Italian lines in North
Africa. They began business just before
Mareth, and had some hair-raising
adventures shooting-up German trans-
ports; but their most exciting adventures
were in Italy, where, landing at Taranto,
they drove ahead of the allied armies
as a wheeled patrol to probe the limits
of German retreat and to report on
enemy strength.
Much was possible to these men of
comparatively low rank, working so
far forward, with commands limited to
the numbers that could be accommo-
dated in a few jeeps, and later DUKWs.
Major “Popski,” for instance, took the
surrender of Brindisi. Posing as a
tradesman, he drove past the sentries
into German-occupied Gravina, coshed
the commanding-officer, and drove out
again with the ration-strength returns
of the German forces opposing Taranto.
Captain Yunnie and two others
walked into Fermo, where Yunnie
named himself Military Governor,
dined with the Vinci family, and in the
bathroom summoned the maid, ex-
plained his need of fresh underpants,
and departed the palace in a set of the
Count’s silk underwear with the family
crest of the Vincis embroidered upon
them in letters of gold. At Camerino
the small jeep patrol under “Popski”
laid siege to an impregnable castle on
a rock and, attacking by one gate,
worried the Germans into escaping
through the other, the German lorries
then running over landmines in the
form of cow-droppings, and into sten-
gun fire from a detachment put there
to await them.
The book is as full of “Brrrrrt” and
“Wruuuuumph” as children fighting
around flats on holidays, but Captain
Yunnie is playing for keeps, as may
be seen in various fights at fords,
patrols forward of regular-army lines,
ambushes arranged by beautiful spies,
landings by sea, hidings in the barns
of Italian farmers, last-minute warnings
by the lush daughters of the farmers;
and the stress is especially evident in
stray references to wastage of men who
ask to go back to their former units;
they just don’t feel up to it any longer.
Captain Grider is an American sub-
mariner. His story ranges from the
South Pacific islands to the China Sea.
Third-officer of the Wahoo, he was
allotted to her before she was built,
according to the American custom by
which submarine crews are on hand
when a new boat is building to advise
on sea-going requirements, and to
learn the control of their vessels while
the controls are being put in.
He was in the Wahoo under Lieu-
tenant - Commander Dudley (Mush)
Morton, when the Wahoo made its
famous entry into Wewak Harbor, fired
five torpedoes at a Japanese submarine
and, with the destroyer, steaming at
them, and almost on top of them, fired
a sixth, a “down-the-throat” shot at the
destroyer’s narrow bow, crash-dived
and, surprised to be still alive, came
up again to find that the destroyer had
turned into the path of their last
torpedo, and was sinking, “broken in
two like a matchstick.” On this same
patrol, the Wahoo destroyed a complete
convoy of two freighters, a transport
and a tanker in a running battle of
which Grider gives an exciting account;
but not more exciting than that of the
hunt in the South China Sea when, as
commander of the Flasher, Captain
Grider sank “more tanker-tonnage in a
single patrol than any other submarine
in the Pacific.”
In his shore-spells, he saw a little
of Australia. Brisbane accommodation
was “a far cry from the Royal Hawaiian
at Honolulu,” but reaching Paradise
Beach, about 15 miles out of Brisbane,
on a “ridiculous little train,” they had
fun being carried along the beach by
the undertow, and “the healthiest rest
period any of us had during the whole
war.” Towards the end of the book,
the Flasher is seen hurrying to get
back to Perth, for the wedding of its
executive-officer, Phil Glennon, to a
Perth girl; and before that there is
mention of an “Aussie commando”
known as Wild Bill Jenkins;—
The subs would take him to
Borneo or some other enemy-held
island and put him ashore, and he
would spend two or three months
making contacts with the rebels and
stirring up what trouble he could
before arranging a rendezvous by
radio. A sub would pick him up
at the appointed spot and bring him
back to Perth.
And there is an account of a houseful
of beautiful girls, all virtuous, at Pearl
Harbor, and how they got engaged
while the submariners were away, and
how the sulky submariners crashed the
girls’ party, and behaved badly.
Assorted Penguins
For anybody who has had anything
to do with sail even in a small way, a
book to stimulate the imagination is
The Last Grain Race, by Eric Newby
(Penguins).
The present writer started his career
(at 7s. 6d. a week and find your own
transport) as timekeeper to a stevedor-
ing company in Port Adelaide in the
days when sail was beginning its last
fight with steam. His transport was a
pushbike and a dinghy in which he
rowed out to the windjammers with
his pockets stuffed with sovereigns to
pay-off the lumpers at the end of their
day’s work.
One of the ships he visited may have
been skippered by a man named
Joseph Conrad.
He doesn’t remember seeing Conrad,
who was unknown to fame then, but
he remembers very clearly the annual
preparation for the grain-race when
up to thirty windjammers assembled
four or five miles off his bedroom
window and waited in the roadstead
for the shift of wind that would take
them out of the Gulf and off on their
first leg to London. Day after day
they stayed there, the ships’ boats
busily passing to and fro carrying the
various skippers to each other’s
dinner-tables; then one morning he
would look out and the sea was empty
and he would be left with only his
limited imagination with which to
picture their 14,000-mile voyage.
Newby fills in the gaps magnificently
in his story. He gave up a job in an
advertising-agency at eighteen to sign-
on as an apprentice in the four-master
Moshulu of the famous Erikson Line.
There were half-a-dozen other good
ships in it, and Newby was not to
know that this was the last of the grain-
races and that Moshulu was to be the
winner. By the end of the voyage he
was a first-class seaman. He is also
a born narrator.
He was the only Englishman in a
crew of Finns, Danes, Norwegians,
Germans, Swedes and other assorted
races who spoke an extraordinary
pidgin composed mainly of Finnish
and English, and he immediately
became the ship’s butt. When the crew
was not on the yards shortening sail
for a tornado or, to take advantage of
a fair wind, putting on everything she
had, they were mainly employed in
taking rises out of one another, and
their practical jokes were as brutal as
most of the weather the ship
encountered; but Newby rose to the
occasion and eventually gained equal
(Continued on page 58)


9
Hero said:
“Oh mq L eanderl
He’ll never make
it tonight”
Leander’s nightly swim across the Hellespont was a calculated risk
at the best of times —it had to end in disaster.
Financial disaster can be averted with the AM.P.’s “W” plan.
A capital sum, guaranteed under a standard policy, is payable, plus
bonuses, on death or maturity. The “W” plan provides, in addition,
an income payable for a pre-arranged term of years following death .
Get your A.M.P. man to show you the “W” plan.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £400,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
P 2318


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 22,1959
Vol. 80—No. 4132
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adam*
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.}, Wellington.
THE BRITISH EXAMPLE
WHEN the question of Parliamentary
* * salaries is out of the way the new
Treasurer of the Commonwealth, Mr.
Harold Holt, will be trying-out his
wings with his first Budget in an
exceedingly controversial year.
As he warms to his work, general
economic conditions are now showing
signs of improvement. No need has
so far been found for additional
import-restrictions. The market for
wool promises better things. The
overseas beef-market is booming
almost to the danger of the present
cattle population. Orders for coal
seem likely to expand, despite the
depression and surpluses of the industry
in Europe.
'THE fate of the bumper wheat-
A harvest is likely to cause some
concern, and costs are again rearing
to go. But Mr. Holt will find him-
self faced with a host of plausible
excuses for general tax-reduction.
The two other greatest nations of the
British Commonwealth have provided
Mr. Holt with divergent examples of
what the period is producing in
Budgets.
The Canadian Government’s effort,
brought down on April 10, makes
rather sad reading, for it was con-
structed against a background of heavy
unemployment, the restrictions of the
United States on import of base-metals
and Canadian crude-oil and the com-
pletion of large canal works which has
meant some additional surplus labor.
Everybody has been hit in the
income-tax field above £l3OO p.a.,
and company-taxes are jumped-up from
45 to 47 p.c. where the income is more
than $25,000. There are sharp
advances in excise on spirits and
cigarettes, a small percentage increase
on motor-cars and other durable goods
to meet a growing deficit in the old-
age pension funds, which is further to
be covered by an increase in the
premium to the fund the scheme
is contributory. Also, import duties
on goods from non-British Common-
wealth suppliers have been increased.
the other hand, Mr. Holt has
recourse to the United Kingdom
Budget, which should be more up his
alley in a country which is at present
thinking in terms of expansion and
development as never before.
While the British Budget has come
in for criticism from Labor, with an
election in the offing, because of its
failure to raise old-age pensions and
relieve the general public in some other
ways, its approach is one that can well
appeal to Australia in its present
situation.
It has eased income-tax, not enough
to hurt revenue but enough to make
the comparatively small wage- and
salary-earner feel substantially relieved
and give the moderate income-earner
some help.
There is much more to be said, how-
ever, for the measures taken by the
British Chancellor of the Exchequer
for checking the silly wage-spiral,
which has been the curse of the Com-
monwealth, as of many other countries,
and particularly flouts the principle
that prosperity and expansion begin
with the free use of abundant develop-
ment capital. Also, that the free use
of developmental capital depends in a
normal world on placing as small as
possible a burden and as few as possible
restrictions on investment of the right
sort.
There is a great deal to be com-
mended to Mr. Holt in the Chancellor’s
explanation of his objectives. The first
is “to fit the British economy to stand
in the modem world without the
artificial support and constrictions
necessary in wartime,” but now
“increasingly irksome, distorting and,
most important, ineffective.”
Secondly, he seeks to “promote a
great increase in the proportion of
national resources saved and devoted
to investment, so that....we may be
able to achieve the economic growth
which is our objective.” Thirdly, he
aims to “reconcile the maintenance of
high and stable levels of employment
with a sound balance-of-payments and
reasonable price-stability.” He added
that all these things seemed to him to
be “essential conditions for full em-
ployment in the long run.”
In Britain, almost a fresh start on
free-enterprise lines has been made.
The process of freeing the economy
from wartime controls and restraints
is now “virtually complete.” Price-
control and all the general consumer-
subsidies have gone. Particular de-
mands are “no longer swollen by
charging people less for things than
they really cost.” And “the market is
free to do the job which it alone can
do quickly and efficiently of making
finer adjustments between supply and
demand. People can spend their money
at home as they wish without bureau-
cratic supervision or direction.”
The freeing of finance and industry
was hampered by the fact that the
post-war Labor regime was hypnotised
by the idea of nationalisation and
socialistic supervision of everything,
and by the fact that the succeeding
Conservative Prime Ministers before
Mr. Macmillan took office had war-
time habits of thought.
At the same time, the change began
in 1952, and since then investment of
all kinds has grown to take 29 per cent,
of the gross national product, against
16 per cent, at the beginning of the
period, and an average of 12 per cent,
between 1900 and the beginning of
World War 11. Long-term U.K. invest-
ment overseas last year was about
£A3OO million, nearly double the rate
of 1951-52, and much of it came to
Australia.
V/fR. HOLT has it in his hands to play
a correlating role with the U.K.
and other Governments by a removal
of burdens on production, saving and
capital-creation. This move would act
as a magnetic attraction both to local
investment and to overseas capital.
Attention to depreciation allowances,
double company-tax and the payroll-
tax are two features which need
immediate consideration. The former
issue has been argued to rags already,
and the arguments are nearly all on
one side, there being little in favor of
the present inequitable position save
bureaucratic habit.
The payroll-tax is an iniquitous and
hampering impost on business for
which it is impossible to find any
present excuse. It represents, in this
year’s estimates, £5O million, or the
equivalent of about per cent, of
the estimate of the total income tax
due to be collected. Its effects are felt
throughout the community to a greater
extent than is appreciated. It includes,
for instance, about £3 million a year
paid by Australian railway systems,
which is a substantial loading on
freights and fares.
Controls of overall finance are
admittedly necessary through the
reserve bank, but investment capital
should have all the space and freedom
that can be given it to flex its muscles
and put its effort into development of
the economy rather than into public
enterprise and maintenance of a large
civil service. Much of Australia’s
immediate future prosperity will
depend on exports. And in a competi-
tive world it will be necessary to pro-
duce at competitive, and at the same
time payable, prices. How far that can
be done depends on internal cost-levels,
which in turn depend very much indeed
on how taxation affects expansion of
productive industry.


"THEY SHALL GROW NOT OLD..."


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Dulles Retires
It was inevitable, in view of his illness,
that Mr. Dulles would have to resign,
though he hung on gamely to his job as
U.S. Foreign Secretary until the last
possible minute.
While his retirement may free United
States policy of some of its dogmatic
assumption of U.S. superiority and right
to dictate to the Western allies, it could
not have come at a worse time.
With a weak President and a new
Foreign Secretary, a U.S. military
approach to publicity at variance with
that of the State Department, the chang-
ing of Ministers at this stage creates a
depressing situation in that it will intro-
duce an unknown quantity into the
Foreign Ministers’ conference next
month.
Mr. Christian Herter, permanent
Under-Secretary to the State Department,
has succeeded Mr. Dulles, who was not
a career-diplomat but a member of a law
firm.
Hitherto the world’s experience of U.S.
career-diplomats in the Ministerial posi-
tion has not been inspiring. Their
approach to problems is apt to be
academic and marked by a lofty attitude
to members of the Foreign Office services
of other countries.
Mr. Herter may, however, be a cat of a
different color from the ordinary be-
cause he is not only a brilliant public
servant, but he has had a personal experi-
ence of politics and negotiation far
greater than that of Mr. Dulles before
he took office, or of Mr. Sumner Welles,
who was essentially an expert in Central
and South American affairs before Presi-
dent Roosevelt took him into his inner
group.
Mr. Herter served in Europe as a
diplomat throughout World War I, and
Was actually acting-Minister to Belgium
at the age of 21. He was secretary to
President Wilson’s Peace Commission in
Paris in 1918 and afterwards secretary to
the European Relief Commission. He
became personal assistant to Herbert
Hoover when Hoover was Secretary for
Commerce in the early 1920’5. Later he
retired to take up politics. He has been
Speaker of the Massachusetts State
House, Governor of that Common-
wealth, and for ten years, beginning in
1943, was a member of Congress.
He switched from the Governorship of
Massachusetts to the position of Under-
secretary of State in 1957. At 64 he is
one of the civil servants most experienced
in international affairs, but his quality
remains to be tested in the fire of top-
level negotiation, and as a sufferer from
severe arthritis his health is not good.
Preference Invalid
The Full High Court’s unanimous
declaration that the law giving preference
to returned-soldiers is invalid will not
come as much of a surprise to many
lawyers who have had their doubts ever
since the Act was passed.
The Chief Justice in his judgment held
that “the preference in employment which
these provisions seek to give and to main-
tain can be brought within the legislative
power with respect to defence only as
measures forming a consequence of war
... The obvious constitutional justifica-
tion for laws providing for a general
preference for ex-servicemen is found in
the expectation or actual conclusion of
hostilities.”
It lay, he said, in “the necessity of
fully establishing discharged servicemen
in civil life and restoring them to their
due place in the community.”
When the Act was established after
World War I there was strong justifica-
tion for if to protect men who had been
away from their native land, most of
them engaged in battle after battle with-
out previous parallel in history. They
came back to a country in which there
was far from full employment and it
was fair that theV should have a prefer-
ence continuing for a number of years.
World War II presented a different
set of circumstances, for, as Mr. Justice
Windeyer pointed out, virtually the whole
population was called up for service of
some sort or another, and most young
able-bodied men were under arms, some
willingly and some not. Some, on the
other hand, were deliberately precluded
from enlisting because of their value to
war industry.
It is, of course, right that men with
war disabilities should have preference,
as they will continue to have, but re-
turned-soldiers in particular have been
uneasy about the application of the
preference law to returned soldiers in
general for a long time.
Exit The Spirit
Apparently without a pang, the Vic-
torian Railways is breaking-up into units
for country lines the famous Spirit of
Progress to make way for The Limited,
a new luxury train to run on the standard-
gauge track between Melbourne and
Sydney.
The Spirit became the symbol of Vic-
torian Railways’ supremacy in Australia
when introduced on November 23, 1937,
an “expression of service,” in the happy
phrase of the late Harold Clapp.
It covered 140,000 miles a year, carried
200,000 passengers, served 126,000 meals,
as well as light meals, and was staffed
by a mere 11, the first completely stream-
lined, all-steel, air - conditioned train in
the southern hemisphere.
It produced the minimum noise and
vibration, and although in tests it had
hit 80, it was restricted to 70 miles an
hour in operation, and for long stretches
sustained 60. It carried 240 first-class
passengers, 192 second-class and 515
tons. Lately it has been diesel-run. The
original engines, named after Flinders,
Henty, Mitchell and Latrobe, were re-
tired after wonderful service.
Sir Arthur Warner, the Victorian
Minister, announces that the (prosaically
named) Limited will have 10 sleeping-cars
with roomette and twinette accommoda-
tion, a buffet-car and an American-type
club-car. It doesn’t seem much of an
advance on The Spirit.
Concurrently with the announcement
of the forthcoming demise of the Spirit,
Ansett-A.N.A. let out that the staff was
cockahoop about the success of the Lock-
heed Electra on the Sydney-Melbourne
run, claiming it had had more public
interest than any single airliner preceding
it, and was winning passengers from
T.A.A.
Good luck to the merchant adventurer,
Ansett! Still, it was a sad week for the
men who love the best trains.
On to Chaos
The Australian Labor party will always
remember the Richardson report on
Parliamentary salaries in the same cate-
gory with depressions, hurricanes and
earthquakes.
Not only did senior members of the
party during the week openly slangwhang
each other, but their comrades went out
and told the waiting world about it.
It had its comic aspects, of course.
There was a pathetic eagerness observ-
able in nearly all the dissentients from the
report to make a show of opposition to
the parts that did not directly affect them-
selves in order to placate the raging press.
The performance must have reminded
onlookers of an African traveller offering
his breakfast chop to the lions in the
hope of saving his own life. At one stage,
however, the caucus-room was more like
a den of lions —E. J. Ward snarling at
Doctor Evatt that he was a “rat” who
had betrayed the' A.L.P. by standing as a
Liberal for Balmain in his youth, and
somebody else shouting at Ward that he
betrayed the Scullin Government and
voted it out of office in the days when he
was one of Jock Garden’s bright boys
in the splinter Left-wing in the Federal
House. Not less entertaining than this
exhibition was Mr. Calwell’s intervention
to defend Dr. Evatt whom, as is common
knowledge to the whole of Canberra, he
loves only in the way that a hungry cat
loves a mouse.
Seven brave members of the caucus
headed by Messrs. Ward and Haylen
sulked in their tents when the vote
on the crucial second reading of the bills
was passed. Others openly abused them,
flouting the granite rule that a minority
in caucus must vote with the majority.
State executives issued hysterical orders
to caucus and its members. There was
even a suggestion that the A.L.P. would
seize the extra pay of its members, it
apparently holding the theory that it is
the legal Government of the country and
above contempt of Parliament.
A Tasmanian Federal executive member
and the general president of the A.L.P.,
Mr. Chamberlain, dramatically resigned
their offices.
Exactly why the supreme dictator of
the A.L.P. should resign because some
Federal members refuse to obey him is
not at all clear. Some political prophets
hold that Mao’s recent enthusiastic visitor
has stepped down as a preliminary to a
campaign to walk into Dr. Evatt’s shoes


—into which a lot of other people are
presently eager to climb.
If this is so his course is peculiar,
since to break the iron rule against criti-
cism of party decisions in public, and to
refuse to accept a decision of caucus,
are acts likely to bring about his expul-
sion from the party rather than his nomi-
nation for a seat. Moreover, it is a con-
fession that his authority has broken
down and his morale gone to the wind,
though he seems to have the W.A. State
executive, of which he is the paid secre-
tary, under his thumb.
There are strong elements in the party
which believe that it would be better
without Mr. Chamberlain, whose lean-
ings have always been strongly to the Left
and during whose reign as president,
with Dr. Evatt as leader, the organisation
has gradually disintegrated into factions,
until it is threatening to break-up alto-
gether.
In a few weeks’ time a new election
for the Federal presidency is due, and it
was by no means certain that Mr. Cham-
berlain would have been re-elected, so
that he may be committing honorable
suicide rather than wait for execution.
Battle Scars
[From Canberra]
One of the fiercest battles ever staged
in the Commonwealth Parliament —the
Battle of the Salaries —is over, but its
casualties and the scars which it has left
will be visible for some time to come.
The greatest casualty was the A.L.P.
Already torn and disunited before the
salaries issue came into the open, the
party is now split wider than ever, and
the hold of its Parliamentary leader,
Dr. Evatt, is most precarious.
Prime Minister Menzies still bears a
few scars from the beating he took from
sections of the metropolitan press, but
these will disappear long before Labor’s
wounds are healed.
Fiery Eddie Ward, one of the bitterest
opponents of the salaries proposals from
the outset, succeeded in getting six men
to support him in defying a caucus deci-
sion not to oppose the second reading
of the bill giving effect to the increase
in the basic salaries and allowances of
private members.
He was strengthened by the shock
resignation of Federal A.L.P. president
Joe Chamberlain only a few hours
before the vote was to be taken.
Ward’s defiance of the caucus decision
was another chop by him at the props
supporting, if somewhat shakily, Evatt
in the leadership.
If the Federal executive of the A.L.P.,
which meets here next month, should
re-elect Chamberlain as Federal president
it will add to Ward’s claims that Evatt’s
leadership is bad for the party and that
he should be deposed.
It is most unlikely that Federal execu-
tive, or the Biennial Conference to follow,
will take any disciplinary action against
the seven rebels in the Representatives,
because four of the six State executives
which make-up the Federal body
announced themselves implacably
opposed to the salary-rises.
The two Labor men whose scalps might
go are Senators Harris, from W.A., and
Ryan, from S.A., who, although in Par-
liament House, absented themselves from
the Senate when the vote was taken on
an Opposition amendment for the rejec-
tion of the increased salaries for
Ministers.
Had this amendment been carried, the
bill itself would have been defeated, and
Menzies would have shelved the entire
legislation.
It is an odd situation that the seven
members who defied the caucus decision
might turn out to be the heroes, while
the two who did their best to see the
legislation was not rejected, as decided
by caucus, should be put on the chop-
ping-block.
Evatt, and his deputy, Arthur Calwell,
will come under fierce criticism from
the Federal executive for their bungling
of the whole issue, and this will further
weaken Evatt’s hold on the leadership
and any ideas Calwell might have of
taking it over.
If the executive, or the following
Federal conference, sends out the hatchet-
men looking for scalps it could split the
party completely.
If this happens, Joe Chamberlain, at
present sitting on the sidelines watching
developments, could come back stronger
than ever and start to rebuild a new
Labor party from the shattered frag-
ments of the once-great A.L.P.
Monte Cassino, 1959
[From “Sister Ellell”]
Time has flown —and so have I! Coming
by bus from Naples to Rome we passed
through the new town of Cassino re-
built after being completely razed by
bombing from September, 1943, to May,
\944, and especially on March 15, 1944,
when it was subjected to the most violent
bombardment in history.
Climbing by the marvellous road to
Monte Cassino, I noticed the Royal
Carabinieri stationed on every curve, and
as we approached the very impressive
new Benedictine Monastery, with its
square architecture so clear and sharp
against the skyline, I noticed barrows,
buses and horses draped with Italy’s
colors drawn-up near the portals. As we
passed the sentries at the door (they were
complete with the red-and-blue-plumed
cockade-hat) we were told it was the
commemoration day for the town of
Cassino.
Crossing the cloister, guarded on each
side by two statues, one of St. Benedict
and the other of his twin sister, St.
Scolastica, and mounting the stairs of
marble, we set foot in the newly-built
abbey, a glorious and impressive sight.
Fully lit, the ceiling glittering in
gold and color, the wonderfully clear
lines of marble-inlaid columns showed
that craftsmen had lost nothing with the
passage of time. And there the fully
choral service for the town of Cassino
(decorated “al valore militaire ”) was in
full swing, and a very eloquent Italian
layman was addressing the assembly.
Banners borne by representatives of all
nations who took part (14 in all) added
color to the scene, and one of the bearers
was a woman.
This abbey has been destroyed or plun-
dered many times, but during the Anglo-
American bombardment many of its
treasures were lost. Still, the crypt was
saved, and some precious manuscripts and
prints are still proud possessions.
The nations involved in this holocaust
were Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil,
Canada, France, Germany, Great
Britain, India, New Zealand, Poland, S.
Africa, U.S.A., Hungary and Italy, and
the most beautifully tended cemeteries
situated at various spots up the mountain-
side honor the dead of these countries.
Many days are outstanding in one’s
life, but this one will be especially so,
purely for its beauty and the impression
that all nations, warring-arms cast aside,
joined to honor all men who served.
27 Sitting-days
[From Canberra]
Federal Parliament proposes to adjourn
about the end of this month and not
return to Canberra until the worst of the
winter is over.
If Parliament adjourns on April 30,
as tipped, it will then have sat only 27
days this year. Even if it goes on until
May 7, which is most unlikely, the total
sitting-days will only rise to 30.
Parliament will not reassemble until
mid-August, when Treasurer Harold Holt
will produce his first Commonwealth
Budget.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies, will
take advantage of the long break to fit-in
a two-months’ world tour, partly Govern-
ment business and partly leisure. He
will sail from Sydney in Orcades on
April 28, accompanied by Dame Pattie
and three officials of his personal staff.
While away he will have talks with the
Canadian Prime Minister, Mr. Diefen-
baker, President Eisenhower, and British
P.M. Harold Macmillan.
Announcing his trip some time ago,
Mr. Menzies said although there was
no meeting of Commonwealth Prime
Ministers this year, he thought he should
go abroad, as it was two years since his
last visit to the Old Country.
“Australia’s Prime Minister should
keep abreast of affairs on the other side
of the world, and going there is the best
way of doing it,” he said.
“I also looked at my wife and felt
she certainly needed a rest,” Mr. Menzies
added.
No one will begrudge this to Dame
Pattie, who is a tireless worker with her
husband. Last year she travelled through-
out Australia with Mr. Menzies on the
election campaign and is always in the
House when Menzies makes important
speeches or announcements. Her charity-
work is never-ending, while an unavoid-
able round of social duties places heavy
demands on her.
Anyone who knows Dame Pattie at
all will agree that “she certainly needs
a rest.” Not only does she need it; she
deserves it.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A press photograph of Mr. R. G.
Menzies alighting at an airfield
brought the adult comment: “Well, the
P.M. is putting on weight.” An eight-
year-old from next-door added her mite:
“Is that Bob Menzies? Oh, we don’t
vote for him, we vote for the lay-by!”—
“Witlog.”
$ <s►
“C.L.”’: The Australian three-acter “We
Have Our Dreams,” under the German
title of “Regenziet” (“The Rainy
Season”), by Dulcie Dunlop-Ladds, of
Burleigh Heads (Q.), had a successful
premiere at the Theater Der Stadt, Baden
Baden, Germany, in March. Dramatic
critics praised it, and already it has been
listed for production by a string of
theatres in Germany. With its banana-
plantation setting and its Australian
atmosphere, this play has proved a winner
at Rockhampton and other country
centres, yet has not had a professional
try-out in its own country.
❖ ♦> ❖
“W.S.”: “Jock” (B. 1/4/’59) says there
are no pen-nib manufacturers in Aus-
tralia. Pen-nibs are manufactured in
Leura (Blue Mountains) and have been
(among other articles) for the past 10
years or so, and employ quite a number
of people. Location: right in the centre
of The Mall, Leura ; the Eastford Pen
Pty., Ltd. So just come and enjoy the
bracing climate, and go away with a
pocketful of pen-nibs. . >
»!♦ *> *Z*
“X”: He got into our Melbourne tram
wearing an R.S.L. badge and swaying
after the 6-o'clock rush. “It’ll be on
for young and old soon,” he said. “I
don’t mind going again,” he continued,
lurching a little, “but this time I won’t
go unless I can take my cat and dog!”
The crowd laughed.
❖ ❖ *>
“C.A.A.”: The unofficial action of the
cop here in our Victorian coastal
resort helped to keep the State’s Easter
road-toll to nine below last year’s.
Around midnight, as the parties were
breaking up, the custodian stood astride
the main road to Melbourne armed with
an electric torch, and stopped every car
to be assured its driver was still capable.
He maintained his vigil until well into
the small hours. There were no serious
accidents affecting returning holiday-
makers on that road over the five days.
“Becks”: Some Sydney banks already
provide ballpoint pens (B. 8/4/’59), and
they do chain ’em down.
♦♦♦ *t* ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: “Horseracing,” explained
the tweed-suited and very English-voiced
punter to a demure lady-friend on the
lawn at Randwick, “is a popular pas-
time demanding an ounce of intelligence
and a ton of luck.” He had arrived from
the Old Country the previous day and
had backed three winners up to the fourth
race.
♦♦♦ +*♦
“Pippa”: Travelling inter-State we
found haulier - drivers most courteous.
Frequently one of their huge trucks was
in front of us on winding roads through
the ranges, and always the driver would
signal us to pass if the way was clear,
or wave us back if danger
threatened. Twice we were
close when disaster over-
took these leviathans. The
first was negotiating a
narrow bridge on a road
where the edges were soft
and crumbling after rain.
It had almost made it
when the wheels struck the
soft edge and it overturned
into the creek. No one
was hurt, but hundreds of
cartons of washing-powder
burst open as they were
flung into the water, which
thereupon foamed into
billowing white suds as if
in a gigantic washing-
machine. The second over-
turned coming down a
steep incline at the en-
trance to a town. In a
matter of minutes people
appeared and began to
scoop up the scattered
rolls upon rolls of toilet-
paper. A school bus was
about to leave on its
homeward journey, and we passed it a
little later, festooned like a departing
liner with yards of white streamers the
kids were merrily paying-out.
“Geekay”: As to double - initial
names (B. 18/3/’59), you might include
Aachen, ffarrington, ffrench, Llewellyn,
Lloyd and Oorschot. Now “Sevenelms”
on de la Poer Beresford-Peirse: Fifty
years ago the name of d. 1. P. Beresford
wasn’t rare. A scion of this house was
at The Sons of Gwalia Mine as groom,
driving the one- or two-horse chariots
for the manager. Letters from the
old folks at ’ome came to the afore-
mentioned scion addressed d.1.P.8., with
the title “Master of the Horse.” But
“Berry” was, in most ways, a very good
chap.
MIGRANT’S RETURN
Oh, take me back to England, I've ’ad
enough of this !
I want to see the Strand again, and smell
the cabbages!
I want to feel the keen north wind —the
north wind brings the snow !
I want to walk on Brighton pier and ’ave
a lovely blow.
We’ve ’ad a week of ’undreds here —the
sweat-drops fairly ’iss
Upon the bakin’ pavements — I’ve ’ad
enough of this !
Oh take me back to England where you
get ’ard ’errings’ roe,
And the rain it raineth always and the
rivers always flow !
Oh England, lovely England! I reach
your shores once more !
Why did I leave you ever? Nor feel your
charms before?
Your ancient towns and ’amlets, your
car-strewn countryside,
Your washin’ down the garden stretched,
your steak-and-onions fried !
I’ve come to see the Strand again—’ow
can I, in this smog?
The bloody weather ’ereabout’s enough
to kill a dog !
Conductor ! Are we getting near to dear
A ustralia ’Ouse?
I know I’ve got pneumonia; the germs
which on me browse
Are those of influenza, tonsillitis, pleurisy,
Laryngitis, nothinrightis, and incurability.
Oh take me back, Australia! I’ve ’ad
enough of this.
I want to feel your own north wind; its
gentle, red-’ot bliss ;
To bake on torrid beaches with some
plump bikini’d miss,
And know that when the sun ’as set, it’s
not too cold to kiss . . .
VIC.
JOHN WILLIAMS.


Tt was such an unusual sight that
I stopped and stared a female
signwriter! Perched on a single plank
suspended across two very high step-
ladders, she was painting a sign over
the doorway of a service-station in Parra-
matta (N.S.W.), and doing a first-class
job. Come to think of it, the strange
thing was not that a woman was sign-
writing, but-that she was the first of her
sex I’d seen at that craft; after all,
there’s nothing unusual about a designing
woman.—“Macquarie.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“An Chuidh”: Now that most kitchens
have pressure-cookers, their owners may
be surprised to learn that they are not
so new. There is one in the Old Curiosity
Shop, a museum of period and antique
in Ballarat, that is over a century old ;
a cast-iron effort, holding three or four
gallons, with lid that seals airtight by
partial screwing, and a valve in the centre
of the lid. The principle is identical with
that of the modern pressure-cooker. Does
anyone know anything about them?
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Bo”: The drunk was swaying about
on the strap in the crowded bus when
a sudden lurch threw him against a
stanchion, and two bottles of beer he
was clutching in his free arm flew on
to the rear platform and smashed. For
a moment he wore an expression such
as a mother might who had just seen
a monster devour her child. Then horror
gave place to rage, and with a flow of
blistering language he abused the brake-
happy driver. The granite-faced dame
sitting on the aisle looked even sourer.
“I think it’s disgusting I” she said to the
woman sitting beside her. “It’s what I
have against strong drink —it maddens
a man. There’s nothing worse !” The
long, leathery-faced bloke sitting on the
opposite side of the aisle leaned over,
tapped the protestor’s knee with a bony
finger, and said: “You’re wrong, missus,
there is—when you’re not able to get
any at all !”
* * *
“Will C.”: When we took possession
of a cottage in a Sydney suburb a few
years ago we considered that we had
seen the last of the old owner, but six
months later, answering a call at the
front door, we were asked if a fire had
been lit in the front room. The previous
owner was very relieved when told “no”;
and then asked if he could recover some
hundreds-of-pounds’ worth of jewellry
that had been placed behind the fire-grate
for safe-keeping. They had been away
from the State and had had no occasion
to use the stuff, and then remembered
where it had been left. We’ve often
wondered since whether it should have
been considered as treasure-trove by us,
the new owners.
❖ ❖ *i*
“Murray Swagman”: The theory that
Germans have no sense of humor (B.
18/2/’59) originated in France in 1917.
A party of Tommies was marching a
German spy out to the rifle-range to be
shot, and he was moaning and growling
about plodding knee-deep through mud
in the heavy rain. “For Gawd's sake
stop moanin,’ chum!” said the Cockney
corporal. “It’s us should be growlin’,
man—we’ve got to walk back! ” The
German couldn’t see the funny side of
it at all ... of course, they've got no
sense of humor!
♦> *
“Septulm”: The 1958 report on the
activities of the Stevedoring Industry
Authority covers a wide range, from the
"I may be an old fuddy-duddy, but this is the only one I could live with."
installation of a new tea-urn for the
night-wharfies at Devonport to the £30-
fining of the ship’s captain at Fremantle
whose splice on the topping-lift of No.
3 derrick had but three complete tucks.
It reveals that while Melbourne has only
four watersiders in the 80-90 years age-
group Sydney has seven. I am in-
quiring whether the retention of these
spry adults is enmeshed with their indis-
pensable experience in derrick-climbing,
chanty-singing or rabbit-running.
+V A. A
V V V
“Joel”: Note from a New Australian
parent as excuse for homework-dodging :
“Franco did not finish his homework
because he had to go to his cousin’s to
make wine.” Franco is 11.
* ❖ ❖
MRS. MACQUARIE’S CHAIR
When Mrs. Macquarie took the air
In Sydney Town, she chose a chair
Beside the Harbor, made of stone.
It should have chilled her to the bone ;
But Mrs. Macquarie didn’t care
What might occur through sitting there.
Which proves about her era that
Ladies were padded where they sat.
n.s.w. Ian Healy.
“Fair Mac”: I hasten to correct a
false impression, if only in the eyes of
the sub-editor. In the par. about “be-
spoke” bootmakers (B. 8/4/’59) 1 wrote
that an “old snob” finally explained the
term to me. “Snob” was subbed to
“gent.,” which suggests that the sub-
editor thought I was an ingrate who
would slight the man who had solved my
little problem, and that in using “snob”
to refer to a bootmaker I was applying
an expression no longer used or under-
stood. I quizzed six people of different
ages and both sexes, and the only one
who associated “snob” with bootmaking
was a middle-aged Choom evidently
I’d picked-up the expression from my
English mother, along with a ridiculous
but catchy little ditty that went: “So help
me bob, my father's a snob, my mother
takes in washing.”
[lgnorant sub., whose grandfather was a
cobbler (i.e., a snob), retires foiled.]
“Penulis”: “W. St. C. 8.” (B. 11./3/’59)
is perfectly right about the disappearance
of the topee and the spine-padded shirt,
and the superstitions that gave rise to
them. Old Uncle Charles was a veteran
miner in Malaya who for 30 years never
enjoyed his three-yearly leaves at home
because his nephews would work bare-
headed in the sun. After the war, along
with thousands of others, he dropped it
all, and it wasn’t the sun that carried
him off: it was a gang of armed bandits.
Nowadays the only topees to be seen
in Malaya are sported by newly-arrived
missionaries and tourists. The sight of
one brings the money-changers around
like flies. One further superstition that
time must remove is about the unhealthi-
ness of the tropical climate —at least in
the better-developed countries. In my 10
years in Malaya the worst that ever


happened to me was a hangover. My
children spent the early years of
their lives there without ever a day’s
illness. This was not as desirable as it
seems, for on their return to Australia
they were attacked by every possible
childhood complaint, and twice as badly
as other children because, as a series of
doctors has explained, they have no
resistance to “civilised” diseases.
❖ ❖ +;♦
“Warrengong”: Upon the death of our
great-aunt at the old home in Mel-
bourne, we came citywards rather sud-
denly, and were forced to bring Junior
along, an uncomplicated seven-year-old,
whose idea of the hereafter is a cheery
sojourn among angels and harps. Soon
after arrival, Junior, crossing the hall,
barged into the undertaker's men carry-
ing out the coffin, and during the some-
what subdued evening meal he filled a
conversational gap, remarking to nobody
in particular, that he “knew Aunt Maud
was going to Heaven, but it was good
of God to let her take her wardrobe.”
T read 1960 is to be World Mental
Health Year doubtless instituted
by the World Health Organisation
with the best of intentions, but some-
what disturbing . . . W.H.0., which
is a U.N. body, has prepared a nasty
lot of questions “to aid you in taking
your own mental health pulse.” These
include some I read to my wife, with
highly unsettling replies concerning
myself. “Are you always worrying?” the
list began, and went on to such queries
as “Do you lose your temper easily and
often? Do you continually dislike to
be with people? Are you always right
and the other person always wrong?”
My answer to this last one provoked
some candid speech on both sides which
has now been followed by a prolonged
“A friend of mine recommended this place
to me. Last time she stayed here she lost
over a stone.”
silence. I wonder if I can be a little
disturbed? —“Mugga Way.’
❖ ❖ ♦>
“0.W.W.”: Bound* for the Great
Crusade (N.Z. version), “He may be
Billy Graham to you,” she said primly,
“but to me he’s Doctor William Graham
—l’m high church, you see.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Penulis”: When my wife and I first
went to Malaya to live we met many
people who have never seen an Australian,
and over the years this gave us a fair
vision of ourselves as others see us. -The
best was from an elderly couple much
troubled about the education of their
young Scottish son. The boy was called
Buster, and rightly—he had only to walk
into a house for the china to start falling
from the shelves; in five minutes he
could do more damage than an average
family of children would do in five years,
a big, happy, lolloping boy, the living
image of a Loaded Dog. One by one
his parents eliminated the various English
schools, then made a decision, and
Buster’s mother came to tell us about it:
“We’ve made up our minds about Buster.
We’ve decided that he has no brains, so
as soon as our contract is ended we’re
going to migrate to Australia.”
♦>
“Li’l Max”: Tell “Piketrailer” (B.
1/4/’59) that a friend who stayed in
Mexico for a while gave me another
origin for “gringo.” At the time of the
Mexican War, American troops were clad
in green uniforms. Whence the use, by
Mexican country folk who
couldn’t endure the occupa-
tion army, of the expression:
“Green-go [home].”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Liewahlo”: The spanking
new telephone-exchange at
Maryborough (Q.) has dis-
pensed with its old-fashiorted
change-tube, which used to
whisk up your money for a
trunkline call, and return
change, if any’. Very conveni-
ent, too. But now a friend
wishing to make a call to
Benalla (Vic.) has been dul-
cetly requested to obtain
“twenty-two single shillings,
please” —no easy thing to do
on a Sunday with most shops
closed. Which raises a couple
of questions: Why should the
storekeeper supply change
for the G.P.0., and what hap-
pens if you want an exten-
sion? Does the other party
wait while you toddle back
up town for the money, or
does the P.O. take you on
trust?
❖ * ❖
“Durian”: The only two
imported personnel at a Mel-
bourne party, the Californian
and the Londoner got niggly about who
was taking a girl home. The hard words
never looked like resolving to blows until
the Yank called the Pom a “Limey,” and
it was on. The Australian audience was
all agog to learn just what that incendiary
word meant. It is hard to understand the
sting of “Lime-juicer.” Neither of the
contestants had any salt-water connec-
tions, and anyway, British matelots for a
century-and-a-half have been quaffing
Nelson's Blood while the Gobs for at
least 50 years have been limited to lolly-
water.
“Judee:” Some foreign migrants in
Australia—not many—get downhearted
and beat it for home. It’s not long,
usually, before they’re back. But in
Newcastle (N.S.W.) there’s ah Italian who
is saving his fare to return to Italy for
the third time.
BAIT FOR A BITE
“Among the most striking of the new season's
hats will be a boat-shaped one trimmed with
miniature fishing-nets.”— Fashion-note.
Women do love to be seen
With a thing parked on their bean
They hope will be regarded as "exotic”
But which —let truth be told !
Would be better left unsold,
Creation staggeringly idiotic !
Horizontal flower-pots
Having ventilation-slots,
With wings and props, suggesting
aviation ;
Hats like jerries upside-down,
Ones with only half a crown
{All that they're worth, by mere man’s
calculation !).
Ceaselessly will girls pursue
Any motif that is new —
They’ll soon be sporting cadies iso-
tropic —
They favor hats that sit
On one ear (they needn’t fit )
And don’t be shocked to see they’re
periscopic.
Hats oval, round and square,
Even rectangular, they’ll wear;
Original design, or from museum ;
Trimmed with seaweed, glass or burr,
Tails and heads, feather or fur
{The latter simply made for monks, to
flea ’em.)
Every woman is aware
That a hat can be a snare
As effective as a silken skirt a-swishing
To catch her man. So why,
You ask, shouldn’t she try
To symbolise her flair for husband-
fishing?
Eve is up to every wheeze ;
From life’s realities
She is undoubtedly no timid shrinker.
But weren't it best to trim
Her little chapeau-brim
With worthier banners — say, hook, line
and sinker?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


How About That Anzac Star?
By JOHN LAFFIN
Since the Landing at Gallipoli 44 years
ago Australia has had 17 or 18
Federal Parliaments, but not one
has taken a step towards issuing a
medal to the men who fought at Anzac.
This shameful omission should be put
right at once. Not that the Diggers have
ever asked for a medal; but the growth
of Australian tradition and increasing
national pride in their achievements
demand that some recognition be given
to the feat of arms on which our military
history and reputation are so largely
based.
John Masefield, who wrote the first
book on Gallipoli and who knew the
Diggers well, told me recently: “No
body of men in history ever more merited
tangible recognition than the Australians
at Gallipoii. Churchill could have said
of them, as he said of the R.A.F., that
this was their finest hour. I cannot under-
stand why the Australian and New
Zealand Governments did not issue a
campaign medal.”
/''vn December 12, 1917, the following
announcement appeared in a London
newspaper:
“As a result of representations made
on behalf of Australia and the Dominion
Government of New Zealand the Im-
perial Authorities have agreed to recom-
mend the issue of a special Star and
ribbon to members of the 1914 Contin-
gents of the Australian Imperial Force
and the New Zealand Expeditionary
Force. It is suggested that the Common-
wealth and Dominion Governments shall
agree upon one or more designs for the
proposed Star and ribbon and that the
designs be submitted to his Majesty for
approval.”
Despite this promising beginning the
award was never issued. The War Office
says: “It was felt that the award would
be unfair to British, Indian and other
troops who fought at Gallipoli.”
What the hell had this to do with it?
It’s a specious argument, since Britain
herself could have issued a medal had
she so desired. In any case, if feelings
were too sensitive in 1917 or 1918 they
were mellowed enough by 1922.
r T''HE War Office statement shows that
somebody in Australia backed-down
over the Star and agreed not to press
for it. Whoever he was, that gutless un-
Australian toady robbed the Anzacs, and
Australia, of a simple right—a right they
had bought in blood.
The medal; known originally as the
Anzac Star and later as the Gallipoli
Star, was to have a bronze eight-pointed
star with a circular centre inscribed
“Gallipoli 1914-15,” with a crown above.
Oddly enough, the ribbon for the
medal was actually made and is still
available in London. I have several yards
of it and I can get enough, at 4d. an inch,
to supply all surviving Anzacs.
It is a striking ribbon, with yellow
representing the wattle of Australia;
grey, the fern-leaf of New Zealand ; red,
the Army, and blue, the Navy.
/''Governments being what they are, and
anxious to do no more work than
necessary, it might now be claimed that
44 years is too long a lapse of time to
make an award. But history has plenty
of precedents for late issue of medals.
The British Military General Service
Medal, with Bars for engagements be-
tween 1793 and 1814, was not issued
until 1848. The first Naval General Ser-
vice Medal was also issued in 1848 —for
actions between 1793 and 1840.
The first India Medal (1799-1826) was
not issued until 1851, so that a soldier
who took part in the storming of Allighur
on September 4, 1803, waited 48 years
for his medal!
This is a ready-made precedent to
justify a decision to now issue the
Anzac Star.
IV/fosT Empire countries have issued
more medals than Australia. Canada,
for instance, has the Canada Medal,
Canada Volunteer Service Medal and the
Canadian Forces Decoration. The
Canada Medal, instituted in 1943, was
the first distinctly Canadian decoration
intended to recognise “meritorious service
above and beyond the faithful perfor-
mance of duties,” and it is worn before
all war-medals.
Some of the Canadians who took part
in the France and Germany operations
of 1944-45 received this award, but
nobody suggested that it was unfair to
the British and American troops who
fought with the Canadians.
New Zealand, too, has shown more
enterprise. Apart from the Long Service
and Good Conduct Medal and Terri-
torial Medal (both now obsolete) she
instituted in 1946 the very fine New
Zealand Memorial Cross, awarded to
widows and mothers of New Zealand
servicemen who were killed or who died
on active service in the last war.
Even so, New Zealand must share with
Australia the shame of not making an
Anzac award.
The only medal Australia has ever
issued on her own account was the rather
shoddy cupro-nickel Australia Service
Medal for 1939-45.
If medals for the men of Gallipoli
and the Sisters of Lemnos are considered
too expensive, surely the Government
could run to six inches of ribbon and
authorise it to be worn.
It would be a fine thing if, on Anzac
Day, 1960, the dwindling number of
Gallipoli survivors could parade with the
Anzac Star in pride of place upon their
breasts.
ROAST-DUCK—AT LEMNOS!
HThe perfect meal has been described
by a famous chef as roast-duck,
young green peas, and apricot souffle.
On Gallipoli the menu was not so attrac-
tive. but in the nearby harbor of Lemnos
something approaching it was there for
the taking. The second division of the
First A.I.F. sailed from Alexandria on
September 1, 1915, on the Scotian, Nile,
Southland and another ship whose name
escapes me. On reaching Lemnos we
were lashed alongside the Nile at moor-
ings, awaiting transhipment to the little
Osmanieh (Khedival Mail Packet) which
was to take us to Anzac Cove.
The food was shocking and millions
of cockroaches made sleep impossible.
They used to walk up the sides of the
ship, across the ceilings and then drop
: into our hammocks —they were whoppers.
The Scotian had an English crew, but
our next-door neighbor, the Nile, was
manned by Chinese. One evening after
a most unsatisfactory meal some of us
were stretched-out up for’ard, look-
ing at the windmills on the skyline and
talking about Young and Jackson’s, the
Cafe Francais and a few other mouth-
watering places, when our nostrils were
assailed by the most delicious smell of
hot roast-duck.
Sure enough, it was there. Four Chinks
squatting on the deck of the Nile sur-
rounded the birds, which were flanked
by two large bottles of the whisky which
is “still going strong.” Leaning over the
rail, we drooled into the sea as the feast
developed. Never tell me that the
Aussies were an undisciplined mob, for
no attempt was made at a raid. Board-
ing the other ship would have been easy,
as the two decks were about level, but
no one moved, and I have often wondered
whether those Chows had the slightest
realisation of the risk they ran and the
provocation we suffered. But just how
they conjured-up such a feast remains one
of the greater mysteries of World War I.
CEG.


POLITICAL POINTS
Federal Labor’s biggest problem at the
moment is to decide who is going to get
slapped and who will do the slapping.
• •
The salaries debate provided some
strange spectacles. There was the unusual
sight of Menzies and Evatt speaking
approvingly of one another and both
uttering veiled threats against the press.
There was Leslie Haylen, a former jour-
nalist and a frequent critic of the press,
almost defending the press, or, at any
rate, saying he didn’t blame the news-
papers for “coming in as they did.”
There was Eden-Monaro Fraser, another
ex-journalist, taking the opposite view to
Haylen and talking of intimidation, mis-
representation and suppression by the
press. Fraser, incidentally, in' painting
a picture of his financial worries as a
politician, claimed he would have been
much better off in a money sense if he
had stayed with the “Daily Mirror” —a
claim that was received by Sydney jour-
nalists with a certain amount of
scepticism. Strangest scene of all was
Eddie Ward grudgingly admitting that
the press was “not entirely responsible
for the outcry.”
• •
There were challenges thrown out, but
none accepted. Ward, in opposing higher
pay for Ministers, said Government
members thought Labor was bluffing with
its amendments. He challenged them to
“test it by voting with us.” Turnbull
(C.P., Wimmera) went one better. He
challenged Haylen and Ward to make
good their criticism of the bills by refus-
ing to accept the increased salaries and
allowances, saying that if they did so
he would do the same. No takers!
• •
Only four members, all Victorian
Liberals, voted against the Allowances
Bill. They were A. A. Buchanan
(McMillan), F. J. Davis (Deakin),
R. W. L. Lindsay (Flinders) and E. D.
Mackinnon (Wannon). Seven Labor
members —Ward, Haylen, Harrison and
Uren from N. S. Wales, and Bird, Cairns
and Peters from Victoria —abstained from
voting. This is not to be taken as
evidence that they intend to abstain
from taking the rise.
• •
Tasmania’s next House of Assembly
will have 35 members, an increase of
five on the strength of the old one,
so it is not surprising that a record
number of nominations had been re-
ceived when the list closed on Friday.
The 89 starters comprise 34 A.L.P. candi-
dates, 33 Liberals, 12 D.L.P., two
Communists and eight Independents.
The most notable Independents are
Dr. Turnbull, the former Treasurer,
and Frank Hursey, the occupant of the
trouble-spot on the Hobart wharves for
the past two years. Turnbull has nomi-
nated for Bass ; Hursey for Franklin.
Under p.-r. a candidate requires about
per cent, of the votes cast in an
electorate to win a seat in a seven-mem-
ber electorate.
• •
During the Westralian election cam-
paign the Opposition parties spoke of
amending the Electoral Act. When the
Brand - Watts Government assumed
office after winning the election they
found that Hawke’s Cabinet had, on its
last day in office, rushed through an
order for a redistribution of electoral
boundaries. Quite legal, of course, but
hardly in keeping with the accepted Aus-
tralian practice of an outgoing Govern-
ment performing only routine tasks
before handing over the reins to the new
administration.
The reason seems obvious ; an imme-
diate redistribution on the basis of the
old Act would embarrass the new
Government’s plans to amend the Act.
Brand’s reply will most likely be the
summoning of a special session of Par-
liament to revoke the proclamation.
Ernest Borgnine, back in America after
a term out here for the filming of “The
Summer of the Seventeenth Doll,” is
reported as saying that “dozens of Aus-
tralians told him their country should be
made the 51st State.” Ernest seems to
have been mixing with the wrong type
of Australian. As he also claims to
have made Australians “wide-eyed with
amazement” by downing a pint of beer
without pausing, this seems very likely.
• •
.The Commonwealth Government is
unlikely to take any action to re-imple-
ment ex-servicemen’s preference as a
result of the High Court’s decision in-
validating existing legislation. Labor
Minister McMahon has not commented
yet, but officials say the Government is
not considering an appeal to the Privy
Council.
Commonwealth authorities will con-
tinue to extend preference to ex-service-
men in Commonwealth employment,
despite the court’s ruling, and the
Government will probably appeal to all
employers to do the same.
• •
After looking over provisions of the
new bill to protect h.-p. buyers in Vic-
toria, some of the leaders of the hire-
purchase business wonder what’s in it
to protect them, especially from those
who get a motor-vehicle on a low deposit
with no intention of making any further
payment, strip it, or take it to another
State and sell it. Chief Secretary Ryiah’s
suggestion: Get a bigger deposit,
“Developing a Second Front, old boy?”


N.S.W. Chief Secretary Gus Kelly is
suffering from swollen lotteries. Under
the legal fiction whereby a pub can be-
come a work of art, the sky is the limit
on lottery prices in N.S.W., provided
the permission of the Chief Secretary
is obtained and regulations are complied
with. Kelly’s complaint is that he has
no power to refuse an application for an
art-union; he can merely delay its
launching. He will seek wider powers
over the gambles.
Fewer than 258,000 of the 370,000
tickets in the Pacific Hotel Art Union
were sold, with the result that the pro-
moters, the Christian Brothers, will be
unable to meet the requirement of the
law that 40 per cent, of the gross pro-
ceeds must be paid to the charity desig-
nated. The fact that the organisation
and the charity. were in this case the
same body will no doubt permit the
waiving of the rule, but if these flimsily
disguised lotteries are to be allowed to
continue some reasonable limit should
be placed on the prizes.
The Air Force Association is at present
raffling another pub, and there’s talk of
another organisation running a sweep
for a sheep-station.
• •
One of the clauses of the new hire-
purchase bill introduced in the Victorian
Assembly stipulates that h.-p. contracts
must be printed in type of at least
10-point. Political Points are printed in
9-point type. Red Page and leader, this
issue, 10-point.
• •
The uncertainty and indecision that
has characterised the Federal political
scene in recent weeks is being repeated
in Victoria as parties, executives and
leaders meet apparently to dither (with
nobody ordering anybody else to do
anything, but merely suggesting) about
the substantial rises recommended for
Victorian Parliamentarians by the Martin
committee of inquiry.
Bolte, however, is still scheduled to
leave for overseas next Friday, and he
wouldn’t be going if he didn’t feel assured
that all would be well. After all, trips
are frequently postponed for a week or
two ; but whoever heard of a rise being
voluntarily postponed?
• •
Queensland Country party at its annual
conference decided to ask for the removal
of management of the railways from the
Transport Department and the creation
of a separate Ministry for Railways.
Delegates supporting the move claimed
that development of the State had been
retarded by a policy of protecting the
railways against road-competition and
that the placing of railways and road-
transport under separate administration
would make for keener competition and
a better rail-service.
Thirty years ago most States had a
Minister for Railways. Usually he com-
bined that office with another portfolio,
but seldom one that had anything to do
with road-transport. Today only Westra-
lia separates the Railways portfolio from
that of Road Transport. It is doubtful
whether the mere separation of port-
folios would bring about the desired
result. The difficulties all Governments
face is that they are saddled with rail-
way-systems which include profitable and
unprofitable lines. They could make the
railways pay by completely strangling
road-transport or they could give some
districts cheaper transport by allowing
road-transport free rein and piling-up
even bigger rail-losses. The problem is
to strike a reasonable balance between
these two extremes.
• •
TV-licences have passed the half-
million mark ; at the end of March the
total was 505,676, of which 262,606 were
held in N.S.W., 243,000 in Victoria and
70 in Tasmania. If the P.M.G. had his
due the total would be higher ; unlicensed
sets are being detected at the rate of 300
a week.
• •
“Mugga Way”: I have related in The
Bulletin how I visited Ballarat’s extra-
ordinary “Avenue of Prime * Ministers”
in company with R. G. Menzies, then
Leader of the Opposition, and saw Bob’s
own bust liberally plastered with mud.
It was during an election campaign, and
my own hilarity was augmented by the
spectacle of Menzies gazing with some
approval at the mud-slinger’s work.
Recently someone, either vandal or art-
lover, removed John Curtin’s bust alto-
gether, and tossed one or two of the
others over. Appropriately, the Curtin
bust was found by a couple of West
Australians, honeymooners, who dis-
covered it in a lily-pond nearly 100 yards
from the avenue.
• o
While the politicians have been glee-
fully counting their coming chickens,
Labor men throughout Australia have
been disturbed to learn that the suggested
Federal A.L.P. secretariat in Canberra
is going to cost them cash. It has been
proposed that Federal Labor members
should be levied £1 ss. a week and State
Labor members 12s. 6d. a week for the
purpose. Several State Labor men are
said to have threatened to resign if the
plan is endorsed by the Federal con-
ference next month.
* •
Licensed victuallers’ organisations lost
no time in suggesting that the lead given
by the Macmillan Government in re-
ducing the excise on beer should be
followed in Australia. The Federal.
President of the Taxpayers’ Association,
Mr. A. V. Adamson, said the British
reductions in income and purchase taxes
should stimulate Canberra into abolish-
ing payroll tax, removing the double
taxation of company profits and correct-
ing other anomalies. The Menzies
Government, still smarting a bit over the
public reaction to higher Parliamentary
salaries, may well follow such advice.
Chiefly due to the substantial increase
in overseas trade, the cargo handled at
Austiahan ports has almost doubled in
the last decade. According to the figures
produced by the Institute of Public
Affairs Victoria, the total of overseas and
inter-State cargo increased from 27.3-
million tons in 1946-47 to 53.2 million
in 1957-58. Some of the chief increases
were in bulk cargoes such as sugar, iron-
ore and petroleum. Inward and outward
overseas cargoes increased from 9.9 to
25.4-million tons; inter-State cargoes
from 17.3 to 27.7-million tons.
Because of the slow turn-round of
shipping and big increases in the cost
of sea-transport, as well as the generally
lower freight charges by rail and road,
inter-State general cargo lately has de-
clined ; but with the increasing use of
bulk handling and mechanical equip-
ment, costs on the wharves are expected
to fall.
• •
“Collins Street”: I looked round the red
plush-and-hush, very Victorian Legislative
Council in Spring Street when John Galbally,
leader of the Labor Opposition, introduced
his private bill to abolish the Council—and saw
only a ring of anticipatory smiles on the face
of the tiger.
These foreshadowed the eventual fate of the
bill, but its introduction enabled a clever
barrister who at times acts like a political tyro
to get off such phrases as “eighth wonder of
the world,” “privileged mouthpiece,” “lament-
able record in political, industrial, economic
and social reform” and similar extravagant
terms ; he even got back to the Council of
1900, although the present one is elected on
adult-franchise.
Galbally’s critics twit him about the bold
measures he introduces when in Opposition,
but which never appear when he is in office.
Galbally has no answer for this ; the probable
explanation is that when in office he is subject
to the discipline of Cabinet, but when in
Opposition the party is inclined to give him
a freer hand because he can’t do any harm.
• •
By nominating as an Independent
candidate for Bass at the Tasmanian
general election to be held on May 2,
Dr. Turnbull automatically expels him-
self from the Labor party. In a letter
to the State executive Turnbull said that
by fixing the date for hearing his appeal
against his suspension for April 23, five
days after the closing-date for nomina-
tions, they showed their determination
to prevent his nominating as a Labor
candidate. They were determined to find
him guilty. He claimed that the only
people with the right to remove him from
Parliament were those who elected him
to Parliament.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: In an official message on
the eve of the arrival of the N.Z. trade
delegation the Maoriland Minister for
Industries and Commerce, P. N. Hollo-
way, admitted that his Government had
been “forced” to introduce a full import-
licensing system, which it was known had
affected some Australian exports to N.Z.,
adding, “but it is intended that this
situation will remain only as long as our
balance of payments problems exist.”
Where have we heard words like that
before?


Personal
ITEMS
Whatever one’s feelings about U.S.
foreign policy since the end of World
War II and the part the Republicans
have played in it, one cannot but admire
the high courage of John Foster Dulles
in his present personal ordeal. Before
his resignation last week as Secretary of
State, photographs showed him to be
a shadow of his former physical self,
except for his eyes. There was in them
still the same bright, confident, cheerful
look that has always been a feature of
the Dulles personality.
• •
Notable work in the past to the credit
of Ray Davey, new chief-architect of the
Victorian Public Works Department, in-
cludes Melbourne Boys’ High School and
the new wing of State Parliament House.
A Fellow of the Royal Australian Insti-
tute of Architects, he’s been with the
department for 35 years. He plays A-
pennant bowls for Malvern.
• •
“R.R.D.”: Just back from the C.M.F.
camp at Singleton (N.S.W.), where he
spent four days with the 34th Infantry
Battalion (The Illawarra Regiment)—
he’s their honorary colonel —Brigadier
F. G. Galleghan told me of a visit made
to the camp by Alderman A. Squires,
Mayor of Greater Wollongong, who
travelled up to spend the weekend with
the 34th —last year they were awarded
the Freedom of the City (Wollongong).
Also, he told me, there were at that time
four honorary colonels of regiments
present in camp together ; unusual, to
say the least. They were Major-General
J. R. Stevenson, of the 3rd Battalion ;
Lieut.-Colonel C. W. G. Anderson, of
the 4th; himself (Galleghan), of the
34th ; and Brigadier W. H. Douglas, of
the 45th. While in camp “Black Jack”
presented the 34th with a panther-skin,
the gift of General Cariappa, former
High Commissioner for India in Aus-
tralia. It’s to be an apron for the bass-
drummer.
• •
An athletic six-footer, Gerard Souzay,
the French baritone now on a three-
months’ tour for the A.8.C., can call
on such a range of facial expressions
to back-up his musical qualities that just
looking at him is almost as interesting
as listening. Graduating as a prizewinner
at the Paris Conservatory in 1944, he
made his debut the same year, since when
he has toured up and down the other
four continents. A yardstick of his
artistic stature is the regularity with
which he’s in demand at the great festi-
vals: Edinburgh, Salzburg, Paris, Venice,
Strasbourg and others. Radio- and tele-
vision-audiences know him as well as
concert-, opera- and oratorio-goers. He
sings in 13 languages, and goes in for a
spot of painting as relaxation.
In 1859 Thomas Playfair took his dis-
charge from the Royal Navy and settled
in Sydney. He knew nobody in the then
colony, and had no training except for the
sea, beyond what he described as his
“grand education on board men-o’-war.”
But he saw the opportunity offered in
supplying ships that came into Port
Jackson, so he started a boating butcher-
business, racing outside Sydney Heads
for custom. This prospered and grew into
the firm which still bears his name.
The present chairman of Thomas Play-
fair, Ltd., is Brigadier Thomas Alfred
John Playfair, grandson of the founder.
There are four other Playfairs active on
PLAYFAIR
the board—one is E.S. (“Strath”) Play-
fair, deputy-president of the R.A.S. of
N. —and a number of the employees
are of the second and third generation
in the company. So to walk round the
firm’s Argyle Street (Sydney) premises is
like being invited to join a family-party.
The 100 years of tradition, though, cer-
tainly isn't reflected in the up-to-the-
minute methods of quick-freezing and
packaging for export that you see in the
plant.
T. A. J. Playfair (sketched here) was
born at Miller’s Point and christened at
the old Garrison Church there. He went
to War I with the Ist Australian Field
Battery, was Naval Observation Officer
at the Landing, and returned in 1919 a
brigade-major, with the D.S.O. and
O. On the death of his father he
took over the chairmanship of the firm.
He was elected M.L.C. in 1927, and repre-
sented N.S.W. meat-exporters on the
Australian Meat Board appointed by the
Commonwealth Government in 1936. In
War II he formed the 2nd
Artillery and served as its C.R.A.
• •
Apple Islander W. B. Williams, who
aptly takes-over as first master of the
new Bass Strait ferry, Princess of Tas-
mania, first went to sea in inter-island
traders and freighters to the mainland,
and then was on the China run before
becoming a nautical surveyor with the
Commonwealth Navigation Department.
He was assistant marine-superintendent
in Sydney before joining the National
Shipping Line.
• •
Pat Lawlor: George Prain, one of the
best New Zealand black-and-white artists
of 25 years ago, has passed on in Wel-
lington. You would not find another
George Prain in a hundred years. A
hungry reader, his learning peeped out
behind hearty gusts of vernacular. His
smile outshone his misfortunes. He was
in the Napier earthquake, and of course
could not miss the two World Wars.
George reckoned he “could not draw for
nuts,” and yet he supported himself and
his wife in Sydney during the depression
with his joke-blocks of marked Maori
flavor, which were then a regular feature
in The Bulletin. In writing this par.
I am disobeying the command he issued
during his final years of illness: “Not a
word about me in the press when
they dump me out at Karori.” But I
must salute a hundred-percenter like
George ; there never was a more faithful
friend.
• •
Now in Australia to play lead in the
musical “Grab Me a Gondola,” which
has run for two years in London, Guido
Lorraine is a versatile actor and has
starred on stage and in films and TV.
Able to speak eight languages, he
specialises in foreign roles. He has
appeared in more than 40 films, was one
of the first TV-commentators in England,
and has also had his own TV-programme.
• •
“A.C.T.”: Israel's first trade-attache
in Australia, O. Sharef, is a businessman
turned diplomat and has lent himself to
the Israeli Government for two years
without pay. Now 41, he cast-up in
Tel Aviv 25 years ago, and for 20 years
has run his own business of bonded
warehouses, finance and importing. He
explains cheerfully that he hails from
Czechoslovakia, is of Polish extraction,
was educated in England, and has four
“mother - tongues” Czech, German,
Jewish and Polish. He hopes to sell us,
among other things, Jaffa oranges and
(no connection) false-teeth.
• •
“Ratoon”: C. G. Hughes and D. R. L.
Steindl, senior pathologists at the Bureau
of Sugar Experiment Stations (Brisbane),
have been awarded the Australian Medal
for Agricultural Science (1959) for their
discovery of a disease in sugarcane. For
years agricultural scientists have been


baffled by the failure of some crops to
grow after their first year, though the
cane looked normal. Now these two
scientists have discovered the virus, which
is carried from infected crops in one area
to another, and have found the cure. The
disease has cost the industry throughout
the world millions of pounds ; in one
district of Queensland alone it has been
affecting 125,000 tons of cane a year,
worth £500,000. Also, the discovery may
give a clue to similar disease in other
crops.
• •
Air-Marshal H. D. McGregor, a native
of Wairoa (N.Z.), has been appointed
Air - Officer Commanding - in - Chief,
Britain’s Fighter Command. Educated
at Napier Boys’ High School, he went
to England at 18, joined the R.A.F., and
won the D.S.O. as a squadron-leader in
Palestine in 1938. He was in charge of
negotiations with Italy at the Armistice
for the handing-over of the Italian Air
Force. Since March, 1957, he has been
director of air-defence at Shape.
• •
Back in Melbourne after representing
all the Australian States at the General
Council of the British Commonwealth
Parliamentary Association in the West
Indies, Baron Snider (sketched here) had
early schooling at Melbourne Grammar,
and then began a law-course at the Uni.,
but tossed this in to go to the U.S.,
where he studied at the University of
California and later joined the Henry J.
Kaiser Corporation, as an expert in
planning safety for industrial workers
and in efficiency.
On loan to the U.S. War Production
Board during the war, he returned per-
manently in 1951 to start a training-
within-industry programme sponsored by
BARON SNIDER
the Australian Institute of Management.
In 1955 he was elected M.L.A. for St.
Kilda, and he’s also managing-director
of Security Units (Victoria), Ltd., which
manages the First Victorian Security and
the National Industries Flexible Trusts.
Celebrated, at 76, the 30th anniversary
of his consecration, the Right Rev. John
Frewer, Westralia’s Bishop of the North-
West. He left Lincoln (Eng.) in 1910 to
start his ministry in W.A. as chaplain
to his uncle, the first Bishop of Bunbury.
Known as the “Flying Bishop,” he flies
over a diocese of 666,000 square-miles—-
he celebrated the silver jubilee of his
consecration by making his 682nd flight.
• •
Johnny Walker’s “Tank Room” (B.
23/7/’5B) in the Rhinecastle cellars,
.Sydney, has grown ; now there are five
more rooms, filled each day at lunch-
time by about 300 people. He says it
looks as if he will have to shift his office
and put that into the kitty, too. There
are interesting glimpses of the past in
the extracts from the “Sydney Gazette
and New South Wales Advertiser” of
1825 and 1826 decorating the sandstone
walls. One specimen, from “Hints to
Immigrants”: “Steerage passengers ought
also to stipulate for a light to be kept
burning below the whole night; and that
no smoking be allowed between decks.”
Walker is planning a visit to European
•vineyards for a limited number of mem-
bers of the Wine and Food Societies of
N.S.W., Victoria,* South Australia and
Queensland and of the Wine Consumers’
Co-operative Society, leaving Australia
next March.
• •
“P.A.L.”: Not for years has there
been such an “Into the Silence” farewell
for a public man as that given by the
press to Bill Jordan, Labor stalwart and
N.Z. High Commissioner for 15 years,
when he lately passed on in Auckland,
at 79. Compressing the many columns
to a few words, Bill was born in Kent,
came to N.Z, in 1904, took-up farming
and then politics. The one-time London
cop who became a knight was a friend
to all men ; honest as the sun ; he will
live long in the hearts of the thousands
who knew him.
• •
“K.R.”: Victorian wicketkeeper Len
Maddocks, who has decided to retire for
business reasons from first-class cricket,
played in seven Tests five against
England, and one each against West
Indies and India. He toured the West Indies
in 1955 and England in 1956, and would
probably have been selected for South Africa
in 1957-58, as he was for the team to tour
India and Pakistan later this year, from which
he has now withdrawn. His great days were
in his first two Tests —against Hutton’s 1954-55
England side. He was picked in the third
Test only when Langley had to drop out
through injury, but he made top-score of 47
in Australia’s first-innings 231, and kept ably.
Accordingly he was chosen for the fourth Test
in Adelaide, even though Langley was then
available. This caused indignation among S.A.
cricket-followers, who no doubt remembered
the torrid time given Langley in Brisbane in
the first 1952-53 Test against South Africa when
he was preferred to Queensland’s Don Tallon.
However, Langley, a grand sportsman, made
a point of being seen with Maddocks on the
eve of the Test, and when Maddocks went in
to bat he was given an ovation, and again
made top-score (69 not-out) in Australia’s first-
innings 323. In private life he’s an accountant
with a paper-making firm.
R. E. G. CUNNINGHAM, Old Digger
and Bulletin writer, is to give a talk
entitled “Battlefields Revisited’’ on the
A.B.C. ( 2FC ) on the evening of Friday,
April 24.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 77, old Bulletin contributor
under various pen-names George Herbert
Bourne, who retired in 1946 as general-manager
of the Bank of N.S.W. at Rockhampton (Q.).
In War I he was a lieut.-colonel in the 2nd
Light Horse (D.S.O. and “mentioned - ’).
In Sydney, at 67, Charles Royden Laraghty,
for 31 years secretary of the Limbless Soldiers’
Association of Victoria and former secretary-
treasurer of the Commonwealth Council of
the Australian Limbless Soldiers’ Association.
He was wounded with the 55th Battalion in
War I.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 79, Dr. John Hender-
son, who was for 17 years director of the
D.S.I.R. Geological Survey and advised on
most of the important mining and hydro-
electric developments in the Dominion. A
Fellow of the Royal Society of N.Z. since
1929, he was awarded the society’s Hector
Medal in 1935 and the C.B.E. in 1948. In
1929 he represented N.Z. at the International
Geological Congress in South Africa.
In Perth, at 78, Maitland Roberts, grazier.
Born at Kyanaba, where his father was a
pioneer of the Dandarragan district, he was a
breeder of bloodstock and took many prizes
at R.A.S. Shows. He raised some good-class
horses, winners at W.A.T.C. meetings.
At Mackay (Q.), at 68, William Albert Amiet,
who, born in Victoria, went to Queensland
after a brilliant university career, joined the
teaching-staff at Maryborough Grammar, and
in 1916 was called to the Queensland Bar.
With the A.I.F. from 1916-19 (26th Bn.), he
was wounded and mentioned in dispatches,
afterwards taking a post-graduate course in
literature at Oxford. Well known for his
public activities in Queensland (past-president
R.5.5.1.L.A.; foundation-president Mackay
Rotary Club; local chairman Royal Geographi-
cal Society), he was the author of several books
on literature and astronomy, notably Literature
'by Languages and Starry Pages. Round about
the time these were published by Angus and
Robertson he did a lot of writing for The
Bulletin.
In Perth, at 52, John Wilberforce Clarkson,
president of the Westralian Pastoralists’ Associa-
tion and a keen advocate for development of
the North-west, where he owned Meka station
and was a director of Landor and Mount
Augusta stations. His father pioneered the
Toodyay district.


ABORIGINALITIES
WHEN WILD MacARTHURS RING
By ARTHUR CAMPBELL
In another 25 years long droving-trips
will be things of history. Closer-
settlement, inland killings, improved
motor cattle-trains, all spell the end of
long trips and cattle-rushes. Also cattle
are better bred. Even the type of men
are altering. You don't meet the type
of whom Barcroft Boake wrote:
He told of the great cattle-rushes,
With a curio’lls slang on his lips,
And spoke lightly of dangerous brushes
With niggers on perilous trips . , .
A rush is a frightful thing. Anything
that makes a sudden noise—such as a
horse shaking himself, causing the saddle-
flaps to rattle. To throw a swag down
can be fatal. A thousand-head can rise
as one. As an old-timer put it: “It’s
one jump to their feet; another jump
to hell.”
Your life depends on your night-horse.
For choice, 1 liked a horse not less than
“ Spike's a prickly subject with Jumbo!"
15 hands ; not too much on the bit;
good on his feet, and, of course, with
remarkable eyesight, although I once
rode a good one-eyed horse —but one-
eyed night-horses are dangerous.
TXmEN the rush starts, it’s hang to the
* * cattle —trust your horse. He can see
better than you.
To get round and circle the leaders
you must run wilder and madder than
the horror-stricken cattle themselves.
The idea, of course, is to swing the lead
until they ring. You really tie them in
a knot. In the morning you count your
casualties; some may be dead, some
may have broken legs, etc.
Nearly 60 years ago I was with old
Tom Larkins, one of the best-known
overland drovers on the roads. I had
been with him over a year. We came
in from MacArthur River station,
Northern Territory, with 1400-head of
piker bullocks, and had reached Devon-
port Downs station, owned by Cobb
and Co.; they used to brand COB. It
was situated on the Diamantina River.
These bullocks were touchy and toey,
and would rush when the first rain hit
them. There was the suggestion of a
storm. Brumby Jack was horse-tailer,
and he was on first watch. As I was
second-watch I rode out to give a hand.
Brumby Jack was a grim, taciturn man
of few words, but he said them
emphatically—he was a brumby-runner
by profession, a horse-tailer from neces-
sity. He knew all about horses.
The storm approached slowly, and it
grew darker. I asked Jack the time. He
blew on his cigarette to get light. “Ten,”
he said.
“Only half-an-hour to go,” I said.
“Is Larkins going to call the next watch?”
“There’ll be only one watch tonight,”
snarled Jack, “and me and you will
ride it.”
TPhe gloom got darker, the thunder
louder and the lightning closer. I
was singing to the cattle. They were all
on their feet. Their eyes were like balls
of fire. Then a heavy clap of thunder,
a terrific flash of lightning that rent the
heavens apart, a deluge of rain and hail,
and the bullocks came straight at me.
My horse turned automatically, and I
was in the lead of 1400-head of frenzied
cattle. I could only see them when the
flashes came. We must have gone a
quarter of a mile when 1 got to one
side of the lead and they swung into
the channel of the Diamantina. My
horse was a big bay, and he was a
marvel. He used to jump off a bank and
land on the bottom on his belly, but
never off his balance.
1 hit a limb, and got knocked behind
the saddle. I regained my seat; then
we came out of the channel, and the
lightning showed me cattle to the right
of me. My horse wanted to pull to the
left, but I held him in. Next minute
I was caught in an avalanche of cattle
from the right. A bullock got his horn
through my bridle and tore it off, and
1 was among 1400-head of
bullocks on a bridleless horse.
We ran along for perhaps
half-a-mile, and I found my-
self in the clear. My horse
veered away to the left; then
I heard the bells ; the horse
steadied, and 1 jumped off, and
breathed a prayer. I saw a fire
about 300yds. away, and
walked to it. Tom Larkins was
standing there.
“Where's the cattle?” he
asked.
“I don’t know,” I said.
“What the hell are you doing here?”
roared Tom.
“Well, a bullock got his horn through
my bridle and pulled it off, and I jumped
off.”
“What were you doing in the cattle?”
he shouted. “You parcel-post b !
1 pay twenty-five pound a head for the
best night-horses on the road to be
spoiled by a b like you! Get a
horse and find the cattle!”
I found a spare bridle and went down
to the bells, and was lucky enough to
find my saddled horse. When I got him
back to the camp Tom had a pint of
coffee made, well laced with o.p. rum.
Tom always had a couple of bottles on
hand just in case of snakebite, and being
a prudent man he believed in the adage
that prevention is better than cure;
he didn’t always wait for the snake to
bite him. I drank the coffee, and got


*
/l AM Running" uatc ! Coul.p yoo oev f/
/S, Th£ Car. Cuf anp run caßjTo The Station ?
A
fkve you ro thz station (
v x Who vo you thin k you are 7 ///
A Rtr/Rsp Me/vieeß. of parmamf/nt /


a dry shirt out of the swag and an
oilskin.
“Go with the wind,” Tom directed.
“You’ll find them four or five miles on
—that is, if Jack didn’t lose his bridle,”
he added sarcastically.
T rode about two miles, and heard
someone singing:
“Money makes the mare to go,
Is a saying old and true....”
It was Billy Golding with 500 cows
from Lake Nash. They had not rushed ;
just drifted with three men in the lead.
I rode another four miles, and was
beginning to despair, but the rum kept
my spirits up. Then I heard a mournful
dirge :
“On the head of bold Ned Kelly
They have placed two-thousand pounds....”
I came back with something equally
inspiring:
“The fisherman and his child were drowned,
Came ringing through the t0wn....”
I rode up to Jack and told him what
had happened. He grunted. In the morn-
ing I had two black eyes and a skinned
face, where the limb had hit me.
Larkins and the men, except the cook,
found us next morning. We strung the
cattle out and counted them. They were
all there. Larkins was jubilant, and
gave us great praise.
“Listen, Larkins,” I told him, “you
said things last night I can’t take even
from you. Make out my cheque.”
“Mine, too,” said Brumby Jack. “Make
“It’s an unscheduled stop. You’ll have to make the most of it!”
it sudden death, never mind a week's
notice.”
“What utter nonsense!” Tom said.
“You’re the best two men I ever had . . .
I look on you as a son,” he said to me.
“I mean to set you up with a plant of
your own.”
Well, the Scriptures tell us the kind
word turneth away wrath. 1 fell for it,
but Brumby left when his week was up.
■piFTEEN years more of it, and I formed
-*■ Glencoe station. One day, while
putting the cattle through the yards for
cross-branding, an old white-whiskered
bloke approached me.
“You’ve lost a bit of your gloss since
I last saw you,” he said.
I looked at the hard blue eyes. He
seemed vaguely familiar. I said: “I can’t
younger the better, they unanimously
agreed; the older the boy, the more
difficulty he had in “breaking” his wrist.
“Breaking” the wrist meant acquiring
the twist of hand and wrist necessary
to pick up a trowelful of mortar. The
belief that an adult, no matter how
diligently he practised, could never
develop the knack, his wrist-joints having
become set, was as old as bricklaying.
Old-timers were still emphatic about it
right up till the end of World War 11.
Then came the Commonwealth Recon-
struction Training Scheme, and ex-ser-
vicemen, under competent instruction,
proved that matured men could not only
“break” (“break-in” might be a better
expression) their wrists but could become
first-class tradesmen. Today, with very
few apprentices taking-up the trade, it’s
quite place you. Where did you see me
last?”
“Do you remember a big rush of
MacArthur bullocks on the Diamantina?”
“Hells bells!” I yelled. “Brumby
Jack! I’ve never heard of you since.”
“Well,” he said, “I’ve heard of you.
I’ve seen your name mentioned in
dispatches several times.”
“Yes,” I said ; “when the small owner
bumps against the larger leaseholder he’s
sure to be heard of.”
“Well,” Jack said, “there’s nothing like
some of their own medicine,” and he
grinned and shook my hand ; which, for
him, was a concession.
I never saw Brumby Jack again, and
he has long since passed into the silence.
But hats off to the memory of the best
man I ever met in a cattle-rush.
“Ditty”: Hi-fi? At the R.A.A.F.’s
crash-boat depot at East Arm (Darwin)
a wandering abo., poking around, found
a sft. length of plastic-hose, and asked
if he could have it. Asked what he wanted
it for, he raised one end of it to his lips
and blew. “Him good, didgeridoo music,
boss,” he said. “Me be Number One
fella with him!”
% :Jc sfc %
“Brick E”: When, at the age of 14,
I followed in father’s footsteps, the old
brickies on the job nodded approval. The
those ex-C.R.T.S. trainees who keep the
game alive.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Curious how a miscon-
ception, once it gains hold, proves almost
impossible to eradicate. “B-Herd” (B.
25/3/’59) mentions the one about beat-
ing a tin to make a swarm of bees settle.
As he says, it doesn’t work —if the bees
do cluster, they were going to anyway.
The fallacy dates back to an ancient,
but commonsense, British law, which
stated that if a swarm left a hive and
headed off, the owner could claim it
when it eventually settled only if he had
kept it in view during the whole time
it was in the air, and had let everyone
know he was pursuing it by ringing a
handbell, beating a gong or making a
similar loud and continuous noise. If
this wasn’t done by the owner of the
parent hive, anyone who spotted the
swarm on the wing could establish a
prior right by chasing it with bell or
gong.
* * * *
“Margaret”: Expensive woollen goods?
The mail that brought our wool prices
—average 45d. a pound—brought a
journal with descriptions of imported,
exclusive woollen dress - lengths. Star
item was 4|yds. of no-doubt-exquisite
cashmere, 36in. wide, weighing less than
4oz. per yard. And the price of the none-
too-generous length? £65 10s!
* * * *
“North Esk”: A Bridport (Tas.) fisher-
man off Mussel Roe Bay hooked a big
shark which carried an identification-tag
indicating that it had been caught and
released at Eden (N.S.W.) in October,
1949. During its more than nine years
of liberty it had grown only Ift. 2|in.
The shark’s spell of freedom represents
the second-longest of any of the family
tagged by the C.5.1.R.0., the record
being held by one released from Mac-
quarie Heads earlier in 1949.
» * * *
A s another old friend of cows, I assure
Professor Arnold Wall that they do
produce an “m” sound, in just the manner
described by The Bulletin’s reviewer
(B. 4/3 /’59); indeed, in quiet conversa-
tion, they often say “Mmmmm” without
opening their mouths at all. A full-
throated bellow is certainly more like
“murr” than “moo,” and in moments
of protest or anguish, such as when the
speaker is being branded, becomes a more
explosive “burr.” A bull I’ve met, in
voicing that rumbling sound which com-
bines love-song, opinion of rival bulls
and threats of violence to same, re-
peatedly and appropriately says “Muurrr-
huh” —but then “h” is a guttural, which
Prof. Wall seems to grant in animals.
All of which bears out the reviewer’s
statement that cows say several other
words (besides “moo”) on occasion.
However, cows’ voices vary as much as
those of new-born babies —to the expert
ear, quite a lot —and it may be that ours,
being Australians, are a weird mob
“Manamoi.”


Tn the water-tanks which serve the
Copperhead mine at Bullfinch (W.A.)
are numbers of fish about 2in. long,
greenish in color but shot through with
rainbow iridescence. They come through
the pipe, 2ft. in diameter, which forms
a branch of the pipeline from Mundaring
to Kalgoorlie, and as well as travelling
250 miles they have to negotiate five
pumping-stations and a booster-pump.
The water takes about two weeks to
reach here, so probably the fish
come in a series of migrations
from one storage-tank to the
next. —“Nimrod.”
* * *
“Archaen”: Having handled
thousands of aboriginal stone-
axes, I can assure “Pieter Nuyts”
(B. 25/3/’59) that granite was
used less than any other rock.
It is too soft, and was made into
an axe only if nothing else could
be obtained. The favorites were
basalt, nephrite, diorite and trap,
and the rock from specially good
deposits was traded far and wide.
Near Mt. William, in the
Grampians (Vic.), is a deposit of black
rock speckled with green. Axes made
from it have been found not only all
over Victoria but in S.A. as far north
as Lake Torrens and up the Darling
River beyond Wentworth (N.S.W.). Axes
made from a particularly hard and dense
grey rock found near Cloncurry (N.Q.)
were traded into N.S.W. and Central
Australia. Along coasts with shingle
beaches a search was made for flat stones
of the right size. Only the toughest
pieces of rock survive the battering of
the surf, and so those found on beaches
were also in great demand.
H= * * *
“Roma”: Proof of the productive
capacity of Queensland’s brigalow - belt
has been demonstrated by Ted Ziesemer,
of Condamine. With his two sons he
cleared 1250 acres of virgin country, and
sowed it in wheat. The crop, which
yielded 47 bushels to the acre, won the
Toowoomba R.A.S.’s field-wheat com-
petition from 363 competitors, and also
cleaned-up the major prizes in the zone-
competition for wheat. The achievement
has led to a rush of brigalow-clearing.
There are 16-million acres in the belt,
most of it capable of similar yields.
* * * *
“Joanne”: At Cessnock (N.S.W.)
Jockey Club’s meeting the other day a
jockey was fined £lO for talking while
on the way to the barrier. Rule 118 was
invoked to do this. Is this a precedent,
or is such a rule often invoked by country
race-clubs?
* * * *
“Amooragnir”: A rabbit at speed must
leave so little scent behind as to be
negligible, yet I have seen a dog pick-out
that track accurately an hour later. I
had a dog who would set-off confidently
across a paddock on another dog’s trail,
hours old, and from his demeanor he
could distinguish between friend or foe.
Yet stationary objects which you'd say
would carry quite a pronounced smell
the pooch will submit to prolonged, close
and intent olfactory attention to estab-
lish identification.
* * * *
“Emcon”: An old bushman and I
were tramping beside the Murray after
duck when his dog, out of sight beyond
a ridge, began barking. “He’s got some-
"I Wonder why politicians always cackle BEFORE they lay a stone?”
thing treed,” said the old bloke confi-
dently. “How do you work that out?”
1 asked. “He might have a lox bailed-up
in a hole.” “No,” replied my mate firmly.
“Notice the high pitch of his voice?
his throat-muscles are stretched like
fiddle-strings, and they don’t get that
way from looking down holes!” When
we topped the first sandhill we saw
Baldy at the foot of a bluegum, head
pointed up at a koala and her joey squat-
ting on the lowest branch.
* # *
“Mugga Way”: With recollections of
Citizen Service training (about 1926), I
believed that even the strongest bridge
could collapse if marching men didn’t
break step. But when I belatedly saw
“The Bridge on the River Kwai,” blow
me if the prisoners, whistling “Colonel
Bogey,” didn’t keep in step the whole
way across, followed by their Jap guards.
Was this to demonstrate the strength of
the bridge, or has the break-step theory
gone with the .303 rifle?
* * * *
"Cashion in 1.-p. disks seems to be
recordings of sound - tracks from
recent films and plays, but the sound-
track I’d have liked to recapture in micro-
groove is of a magic -lantern show which
visited my country hamlet of Kemp’s Creek
(N.S.W.) in the years before World War I.
This one-man production had a six-
monthly circuit of the County of Cumber-
land, staging one-night shows in every
township from the Hawkesbury in the
north to the Cowpastures in the south.
The outfit was conveyed by wagonette
and pair ; where a hall was not available
the showman rigged a marquee. Admis-
sion was Is. adults, children 6d. At 8 p.m.
oil-lamps were extinguished, and the
carbide lantern-beam projected onto the
screen a three-hour, slide-packed evening
of travel-scenes from Niagara Falls,
cameos of England and tourist-attractions
of Europe. Musical backgrounds were
provided by the showman on an
accordion. Between travel-series the
lantern would illustrate a song, and the
audience be invited to give of their best
“In the Shade of the Old Apple Tree,” or
join with the mute negroes picking cotton
singing “Old Black Joe.” There were
one or two comic sequences, which laid
the audience in the aisles, and a tear-
jerker set of slides portraying Little
Willie’s death-scene from “East Lynne.”
The climax came with the “Views of
Venice”—as a fade-out the showman's
masterpiece was making a gondola
appear to glide along the Grand Canal ;
as it disappeared from view, so did the
strains of “Santa Lucia” gradually die
away.
With this grand finale, oil - lamps
were again lit, and friends chatted before
lifting sleepy children into sulkies and
spring-carts for the homeward journey
along rutted roads to small farm-cottages,
a far cry from singing gondoliers and
the Doge’s Palace.
C.A.L.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX.” Sydney
Business, Robbery, Etc.
THRIFT AND SPIVVERY
'T'he cheerful confidence with
which Federal Parlia-
mentarians first approached the
subject of increased remunera-
tion for themselves, worked-
out with a nice regard for the
mathematics of inflation,
c.-0.-1., value out of the pound
and so forth over the past 59
years, is in distinct contrast
to the attitude of the same
gentlemen, or at least the
Ministers and their background
of civil servants, when it comes
to doing justice to the com-
mercial community, the in-
vestor and the national pro-
ductivity.
Early during World War II
rebates of taxation on com-
pany dividends were abolished,
as a “war-time emergency,”
and the result was that the
company paid a flat-rate of
taxation at a high rate, and then
the shareholder paid his own
rate of tax in full on any divi-
dends he received, regardless
of what the company had paid.
There were, in addition, further
taxes on undistributed profits
of companies ; and in the case
of private companies these
were worked-out as though the
profits had been distributed
to all shareholders, and the co.
paid portion of their tax.
As in all tax matters, there
were ways by which some
people could avoid portion of
their tax, and the private-
company tax laws have been
altered, to frustrate these
people ; but in doing so private
companies as a whole arc
penalised in a most inequitable
way in relation to the big
company or the unincor-
porated business. This is simply
to “protect the revenue” in
the easiest possible way for the
Taxation Department, and
hang the injustice to the tax-
payer or the frustration of
national economic efforts
towards greater productivity.
In the same box has been
the Government’s reluctance
to do anything about the
capital-erosion that has been.
occurring through the inflated
present-day cost of replacing
worn-out plant from depre-
ciation provisions based on the
pre-war cost of plant, when
prices were about a quarter of
what they are today.
Neglect to do anything to
rectify the injustice of double-
taxation of company dividends
or to remedy the industrial
disaster of capital-erosion,.
plus the maze of administrative
regulations which have arisen
allegedly through the in-
capacity of the Australian
“ Remember selling me a non-iron, drip-dry shirt ?”
economy to stand on its own
feet in direct competition with
overseas producers, have im-
posed a great financial burdon
on industry and investors, even
though import-restriction (for
example) may have produced
a new spiv class which has
come in through a side-door
and which has done famously
through trafficking (or, anyway,
“dealing”) in import-licences.
There are known cases where
someone who got a licence
during one of the relaxed post-
war periods has been out of
the importing business for
several years but is still selling
his quota each period to a
traditional importer.
Investors in major companies
in Australia are rarely able to
show that over the past 20
years they have gathered even
a reasonable income, let alone
one that will compensate them
for the inflation that has
occurred in living-costs. The
C.S.R. made this quite clear
in its own case. And the sad
position of the long-term in-
vestor in war-loans has been, of
course, notorious, as is that of
the .unfortunate landlord still
subject to tenancy regulations
and “fair”-rent legislation.
. The Richardson committee
stepped very high indeed over
these aspects of the Australian
economy, all relics of World
War II that persist up to the
present-day 14 years after
the end of the conflict.
Yet they all involve not
only personal injustice on a
national scale to thousands of
enterprising and thrifty citizens,
but they add to our costs of
production, to other obstacles
to production, and reduce
incentive both to produce and
to save.
Their most evil effect is the
way they restrict development
of our full productivity.
The Welfare State is also a
creature of political parties and
Governments, State and
Federal. We have been
reminded over and over again
that this is a period of levelling-
down for the upper and middle
classes, and that we have to
put up with it. The politician
should take keen note of what
has happened to the average
middle-class citizen financially
over the past 20 years and be
guided (in contemplating his
own financial lot) by his
domestic economy rather than
by the “swindle-sheets” of
privileged executives of privi-
leged companies who may also
be working superannuation-
funds to death and be indulg-
ing in other spivvery.
It may be in order to envy
these gilded spivs,, but not to
copy them. They are not
representative.
South’s New Lease of Life
Co there’s life in the old
South yet! Twenty years
ago it was believed that Broken
Hill South had a limited and
short life as a mine, that the
North mine had a limited but
much longer life, and that Zinc
Corp. and New B.H. had, as
far as could be judged, almost
unlimited lives.
Now, with the end of the
ore in the old South workings
previously in sight, and its
sharemarket valuation dis-
counted accordingly, comes an
announcement from the board
of diamond-drilling results
which give indications of pay-
able oreshoots on the western
flank of the Broken Hill anti-
cline quite distinct from the
main. lode. Widths of ore
intersected are less than the
great widths in the main lode,
but mining costs, other than
development, are expected to
be lower than in the present
mine.
Geophysical and geological
examinations in the Broken
Hill field outside the South
mine leases have revealed three
potential structures, the largest
of which is to the south-west of
the main lode ; a smaller one is
to the north ; and. there is also
a prospect, based on geo-
physical data alone.
B.H. South thinks it desir-
able to seek partners in explor-
ing two of these new areas,
with the smaller northern
one reserved for develop-
ment solely by itself. The
present South treatment-plant
would handle any ore devel-
oped in the early stages.
On top of these new dis-
coveries and prospects, it has
been established that ore
reserves in the old main lode
are “appreciably in excess ,of
published figures.”
Prospecting by B.H. South
has not only broadened and
lengthened its own mining out-
look, but it has created new
possibilities for the whole
Broken Hill area. Exploration
and development will, of
course, take many years.
“The belief is now stronger,”
says South’s general-manager,


How much of
Your Estate
will your beneficiaries get?
Specialised experience in the intricacies of
Estate Administration may well prove of con-
siderable advantage to you—and your depen-
dants. Union Trustee’s comprehensive services
available at moderate charges, limited by
Law—ensure fullest conservation of your assets
and continuous, competent control of your
Estate. Phone, write or call. There is no
charge—no obligation.
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States —New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Albury, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Rockhampton and Charleville.
(JT27C
M. W. Howell, “that con-
cealed orebodies as yet un-
discovered exist in the Broken
Hill district in a manner similar
to those of many other im-
portant mineral provinces.”
In speaking of “partners,” it
is not clear whether B.H. South
has in mind the übiquitous
Consolidated Zinc and its
neighbor, North Broken Hill,
or whether it aims at overseas
help—from sources such as
Mt. Isa has drawn strength
over the years of develop-
ment.
As to current and immediate
matters, for the first half of
the 1958-59 term a “modest”
mining surplus has been
shown, compared with a loss
for the full 1957-58 term. This
is apart from the usual income
from the investment portfolio.
The ss. shares will be split
into Is. units from May 1.
The ss. shares rose to 645. 6d.
following last Thursday’s
announcement. There are at
present 3,200,000 ss. South
shares. Lowest price in 1958
was 455. 5d., highest 78s. 6d.
Nine Months’ Wool
"IYTot including any of the
post-Easter sharp rise in
prices, the Australian wool-clip
for the nine months to March
31 realised £203 million, against
£282 million for the same
period of 1957-58.
Average price (greasy) has
been 57d., compared with 66d.
There were in store on
March 31 a total of 772,427
bales remaining for sale at the
current higher prices. This
time last year the total was
534,206 bales.
Wool remained buoyant at
last week’s auctions.
Oil Search Issue
Australasian Petro-
’ ’ leum’s first deviated bore-
hole (at Puri) in the limestone
at the level from which oil
was produced in the original
hole (7489 ft.), trading in Oil
Search rights began vigorously
on April 15. The old shares,
ex rights, were traded at Bs. 6d.
on the day the rights were
selling at 4s. 3d. (with ss. to
pay).
The rights were thus the far
better “buy” in the case of
an investor paying a top rate
of tax of 10s. in the £. He
would be allowed the full ss.
payable to the company as a
tax-deduction, which would
mean a deduction of 2s. 6d.
a share, and the net cost of
Oil Search shares through the
purchase of the rights at 4s. 3d.
would be 6s. 9d., or Is. 9d. less
than the fully-paids.
It looks as though oil-share
punters in future will need to
carry a taxation ready-reckoner
in their hand as they duck into
the foyer of Australian Stock
Exchanges to survey the
market.
Every man will have his
price—a different price—for
Oil Search rights.
Howard Smith, Ltd.
'T'hough Howard Smith’s
chief shipping subsidiary
can be doing little or no better
than other Australian coastal
shipping cos., and its overall
profits are down heavily on
the 1957-58 showing, investors
would seemingly be wise to
await fuller explanation of the
year’s results by the chairman
at the annual meeting.
Britain’s Budget
[From London]
/Commentators, both political
v and economic, have been
unable to find anything serious
to fault in Mr. Heathcoat
Amory’s second Budget. Even
the easy taunt that he has cold-
shouldered the old-age pen-
sioner lacks substance, for
State pensions have nearly
doubled since 1947. It is the
superannuated person who has
been neglected, and the Chan-
cellor has rightly earmarked
him for consideration.
Because its benefits are well
spread over all sections of the
community, the Budget has
been favorably received
generally. Nor is it deliberately
vote-catching. Not everyone,
it is true, shares the working-
man’s enthusiasm for the out-
of-character and rather flagrant
concession to beer-drinkers,
which seems to have been made
with one eye on the constitu-
encies and the other on the
cost -of - living index. An
equivalent reduction in the
petrol-tax might have been
more equitable. (Yet it must
be remembered, as the Chan-
cellor has done, that beer is
essentially a home product
which causes no balance-of-
payments problems.)
The pattern of the Budget,
though, is logical and encourag-
ing in so far as it is consistent
with the line of continuity of
the nation’s economic recovery.
It is a “Go forward” challenge,
certainly not a sop to a weary
electorate, and that is all to the
good. Though probably the last
if this Government’s term of
office, it is yet an intermediate
one, drafted in reasonable con-
fidence of being returned at the
next election.
Although his inability to
knock Is. off the standard rate
of income-tax must have been
a disappointment, the Chan-
cellor has not timidly settled
for 6d. His 9d. (and 6d. for
the lower rates) is costly, repre-
senting two-thirds of the total
tax-remissions of £292 million,
It favors the middle-classes,
but, so heavy is the tax burden,
only modestly—a married man,
with two children, earning
£l5OO a year, is less than 10s.
a week better-off.
Mr. Amory’s phrase, “more
of our own money in our own
hands,” substantiates his con-
viction that not all this money
will be spent. Savings last year
were a record, and it is clear
that he expects the trend to
persist. It will need to, since
the Exchequer will have to
borrow £720 million in the
coming year (compared with
less than £2OO million last year),
It remains to be seen whether
our economy and responsi-
bilities as bankers for the
sterling area can withstand this
strain without yielding to infla-
tion. The Chancellor, a
reputedly cautious person, is
evidently confident that it will,
The City, while approving
the Budget, is disappointed that


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. - Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED
NOTES
With principal and interest
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED
by General Motors acceptance Corporation, New York
2 YEARS
I YEAR
9 MONTHS OR 270 to 360 days
6 MONTHS OR 180 to 269 days
3 MONTHS OR 90 to 179 days
I MONTH OR 30 to 89 days
6% per annum
5£% per annum
4J% per annum
4±% per annum
3f% per annum
3£% per annum
Subject to a minimum of £5OO, investments may be in multiples of £lOO.
If you desire to invest for any period between 30 and 360 days you nominate
the exact date you desire your investment to mature. Rate of interest depends
on the length of the investment. For example, if the investment is made for
95 days, the rate is that specified for the 90-179 days period.
HOW TO APPLY
Applications for Notes can be accepted only on the printed form attached to
the prospectus. Copies of the full prospectus with application form obtainable
from: —
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
D 142
nothing positive has been done
to stimulate saving. Stamp-
duty on share-transfers remains
at the penal rate of £2 per
cent., the expected reforms in
connection with unit-trusts
have not materialised, and no
direct benefit has, in fact, been
passed to the City. In a nega-
tive sense, though, vthe Chan-
cellor has not discouraged
small saving; he has not
reduced the high redemption-
yields obtainable on National
Savings Certificates. This is
unwelcome news to the build-
ing-societies, and it also pre-
judices the tendency of interest-
rates to fall.
There are some doubts, too,
about the effectiveness of
investment allowances, re-
introduced with the object of
encouraging industry (especi-
ally capital goods) to re-equip.
The timing is held to be ques-
tionable and past experience
has unfortunately proved that
this kind of stimulation can
be altogether too vigorous.
These matters, no doubt, will
adjust themselves.
In sum, the Budget is tonic-
giving and inspiring, not least
because of its expansionist
mood. There is an element of
risk here because imports must
rise faster, and earlier, than
exports. Success depends upon
the same mood spreading to
other countries. That would be
an excellent thing for world
trade and for the commodity-
supplying countries. For wool,
too.
It’s good to see Britain
setting the pace again and to
know that she’s not afraid to
take a risk!
Ford in Brisbane
r T"'HE period to December. 31,
1958, was the first half-
year’s trading under the new
Ford franchise-system for
Brisbane. Under the new
dealership policy, Metropolitan
Motors and Coachcraft were
made No. 1 dealers (handling
Zephyr, Customline, Mainline
and heavy trucks), whilst John
McGrath Motors, as No. 2
dealer, handles the smaller
English cars and lightweight
trucks.
Coachcraft, following the
change, has reported a de-
creased net profit for the half-
year, and the omission of the
interim dividend.
Fellow No. 1 dealer has
fared little better. Through the
holding-company of Cossey
Investments and Finance Co.,
Metropolitan Motors has also
indicated a reduction in sales
for the half-year. Quarterly
div.-rate is now 3J- p.c., com-
pared with 5 p.c. last year.
The No. 2 dealer, John
McGrath Motors, through its
holding-company, Australian
National Industries, Ltd., has
yet to report officially.
Brandon Timbers
A n encouraging half-yearly
report and a lift in the
annual div.-rate from 7y p.c.
p.a. to 8 p.c. p.a. by Brandon
Timbers, Brisbane, has con-
firmed the upward swing in the
Queensland building - trade.
The co., like other local timber-
and hardware-merchants, has
reported sales *to be up
—l3 p.c. for its latest half-
year, following an increase
of 18 p.c. during the previous
financial year. An increased
demand from the north side of
Brisbane is being met by the
establishment of a new distri-
bution-centre there. The centre
will help decrease handling
costs.
It now seems that the decline
in the building-trade which
took place from 1952 to 1956
has been arrested, and present
prospects are brighter.
At par, the ordinary shares
yield 8 p.c. and the con-
vertible notes at 20s. 6d. return
a shade under 9 p.c.
Tannery for C.Q.
A move by Rockhampton
businessmen to float Cen-
tral Queensland Leather Indus-
tries, Ltd., promises a new
industry for Rockhampton
(Q.). By establishing the only
tannery north of Brisbane the
company will have first selec-
tion of local hides at ruling
prices.
The situation of the factory
on the Fitzroy River permits a
saving of £20,000 in establish-
ment expenses otherwise
payable for providing for the
discharge of effluents.
Production will be concen-
trated on the middle-priced
bracket, for which there is a
large demand at the moment,
being mainly satisfied by
imports from overseas.
The company talks of
profits reaching eventually to
21 p.c. on capital, and turn-
over rising to £1 million within,
a few years.
Drilling Speeds
[From L. Owen]
r edging from local press-
J releases, a drilling rate of
1000 feet per week is considered
high. Under average Aus-
tralian conditions, this rate
cannot be classed as bad,
particularly where coring is
being carried-out, but it should
be realised that it is well below
what is common on established
oilfields.
The figure established in the
Caillou field south-west of
New Orleans, U.S.A., is
accepted as a world record.
Here, on June 4, 1958, No. 14
well was drilled to its projected
depth of 13,778 feet in roughly
14 working days.
The record still stands.


EUROPEAN
HOLIDAY
FROM ONLY
AUSTRALIAN
CURRENCY
(PROMENADE DECK CABINS)
Paxfon-lunn See Europe Boomerang Holidays the year's most terrific
travel bargains. You see England, France, Belgium, Italy, Germany,
Switzerland, Egypt, India, Ceylon. Tour prices include:
lst Class, One Class, Cabin Class sea
travel Sydney to Europe and Ist Class
return U.K. to Sydney.
Good hotel accommodation London
and Continent.
Escorted European motor coach
touring.
'fc Guaranteed steamship accommodation
with choice of cabins.
Services of the Paxton-Lunn organisa-
tion with headquarters London and
world-wide offices and representatives.
Sightseeing, transfers, boat - train
tickets.
"fa Expert assistance in obtaining passports,
visas, travellers’ cheques, etc.
CHOOSE YOUR DEPARTURE DATE
Tour 891 ORION 2nd Sept., ’59 £.460
Tour 892 STRATHAIRD 17th Sept, ’59 £409
Tour 893 STRATHNAVER 21st Oct., ’59 £440
Tour 894 ORSOVA 16th Nov., ’59 4475-
Tour 895 ORCADES 21st Dec., ’59 £550
(Tour 895 includes individual European touring)
CHOICE OF RETURNS FROM LONDON IN JAN., FEB., MARCH, APRIL or MAY, 1960
Robert
Paxton
Paxton
on House
POST THI* COUPON
(Travel) Pty. Ltd.
NOW FOR FULL DETAILS
Please send me, without obligation,
FREE illustrated brochure on European
your
Tours.
90 Pitt Street
SYDNEY
Phone: 8W4158 (10 lines)
Telegraphic address: Robpax, Sydney
NAME . .
ADDRESS


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Cilli Wang
At Sydney Royal, Cilli Wang
mimed a 15-act programme
without any words except the
nervous prologues of Anthony
Ward.
Most of her acts were done
in the most complex of
costumes. She was a giraffe ;
a plant that grew out of a
flowerpot, put out leaves, then
flowers, waved them about, and
then drooped to the curtain-
fall ; the His Master’s Voice
dog listening to radio-pro-
grammes and conveying its
opinion of them (its last
comment is extremely rude);
an artist painting an evidently
less-and-less satisfactory pic-
ture to the accompaniment of
a Liszt rhapsody; a citizen
going through his daily round
from morning to night; a folk-
dancer ; a gggling apparition
of the female libido —a blend
of a Thurber and an Old Girl
of St. Trinians, dancing in her
nightgown in the moonlight ;
and a chambermaid who breaks
a window while cleaning it,
picks the broken glass out of
the frame so that you begin to
believe glass and frame were
really there, and gets slapped.
Her exits after these last two
acts the apparition with a
final at the audience
from behind the side-curtain
and a shameless giggle ; the
chambermaid with a fatalistic
slouch and an angry toss of
her head—are among her best
effects.
When she comes on as tw’O
people she is almost impossible
to disentangle in words. The
life-size doll-dances one
Russian, one a ballet pas de
deux, one a modern ballroom
couple might seem easy
enough ; but try to reconstruct
her in “World Tournament,” or
“Two Little Acrobats!”
Two little men come on,
each with his arms around the
same globe of the world, push-
ing and pulling at it. It falls,
and one man rolls it about
the stage with his feet. Then
you begin to suspect that the
torsos of the two little men are
dummies; Cilli Wang plays
the entire act bent, as it were,
between the two little men,
using her own legs for the legs
of one of them, and her arms
and hands as the legs and feet
of the other.
Perhaps the funniest of the
acts is that of the owl-chick
“But I cant divorce you until We've finished shootin' this
picture , honey. I got too many ex-husbands hangin
around the set right now.”
that “dances with joy for
being a little bird”; and
although one saw Cilli Wang
do all these other things, one
can’t quite believe that she
did that owl it must have
been a marionette!
Wim de Vries accompanied
on the piano and filled the
intervals between acts; his
best moment was in the syn-
chronisation of a child prac-
tising the piano with Cilli
Wang’s performance as the
father trying to read a news-
paper. All-in-all, it’s a show,
like Corelli’s violin-and-harpsi-
chord pieces, for audiences
who like to see how much can
be done with how little —the
final test of artistry, as it is of
appreciation.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Six Masques for John”
Of the six one-act plays on
a theme set by John Alden
in Sydney Independent Theatre
Workshop's Sunday-night pre-
sentation (April 12), the best
constructed was “12-Minute
Play,” by Alan Harvey. It was
set, like a beginner’s short-
story, in Heaven, and the Lord
had decided to demolish
humanity. It used Alden’s bit
of dialogue as a brilliant con-
elusion (which is more than
most of the others did):
(A girl is standing near a table.
A man reaches for a document on
the table.) Girl: “Don’t touch
that.” Man: “Why not?” Girl:
“Look behind you.” (Man turns
round.) Woman: “Good evening,
John.” (Gjrl laughs loudly.)
The interrupting woman in
Alan Harvey's play is the
mental-hospital nurse come to
tel! the patients it's time to
leave Heaven and go to bed.
As in all the plays, there was
too much talk, and an un-
certainty of effect; while,
unless it was meant sarcasti-
cally, the use of six or eight
adjectives to a noun was a
classic demonstration of how
adjectives weaken what they
qualify. And there was a
much - too - clever anticlimax.
Cleaned-up, this little play
could be first-rate.
In subject and people and
the handling of people, Dennis
Carroll's “Portrait in Room 7”
was the most encouraging. It
was about the university-age
son of a social editress who,
sick of the social rounds his
mother was forcing him into,
took-up with a Paddington
popsy, financing the flat and
the whisky by taxi-driving.
This brought together two
South-side tarts and three
North Shore types ; and it was
a real pleasure to see people
one knew so well being put
through their paces. It was
less like a one-act play than
the first of three acts.
Rodney Milgate’s farce,
“Joshua’s Dilemma,’’ had salty
dialogue and mannered acting ;
Noelann Gandon’s “Time Pay-
ment” presented a man torn
between his wife and another
woman in something of the
style of a romantic novelette ;
Edward Hepple’s “The Self-
Anointed” envisaged the
retreat of the English armies
into Wales before Communist
hordes, with much too much
fiery dialogue around a horrible
old Prime Minister; and
Camilla Christensen's “The
Lotus-Eaters” was a poetic
evocation in the Russian
manner of the life of a girl, and
a man who left running away
from his wife for too long.
Lillian Coughlan acted
vehemently as a Prime Minis-
ter’s secretary, and with power
and humor as a popsy ; Gwen
Bevan made a cold and
virulent P.M.’s wife, and a
forceful and ruthless social-
editress mother ; Roy Drury
made a good general; Peter
McCredie impersonated a
woman so well in the Milgate
farce that one hardly recog-
nised him as the suave young
North Shore gent in the Carroll
play ; and Dennis Carroll did
the angry young man in his
own play very creditably.
These plays were selected
from 30 written as Workshop
exercises; if not on stage,
maybe on TV, all this industry
may in time be well repaid.
4
A World Without Women
Has anyone yet remarked
that “Waiting for Godot” is a
play about men only, living in
an entirely masculine world?
There is not a single reference


N
w
Best
Mineral
Supplement
For all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over 65%
tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed minimum, of
30% phosphoric acid and 40% lime. Because there
is little protein and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do
not pay for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes the
really palatable and wholesome lick.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
»S 7. Hw'*"
Vlixfa£-$l
STERILISED.
BONE FLOUR.
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. Box 3583,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 590, NEWCASTLE
• G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K,
BRISBANE • G.P.O. Box H5BB, PERTH
• G>.o. Box 533, LAUNCESTON.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
to the other sex beyond one
metaphorical image of birth
in a general sense, used to
convey the idea of death being
inherent in life —or perhaps
merely to employ the gruesome
simile of a forceps delivery
effected by some universal
gravedigger.
Samuel Beckett’s five male
characters were not even un-
timely ripped from the womb
—that suggestion would be far
too feminine. If they were
indeed born of woman they
were immediately snatched to
some monastic desert, and
knew naught of mother, nurse,
sister, mistress, or wife. Even
the boy messenger has only a
father and a brother. Symbols
of humanity they may be, but
in a society, if such were
humanly possible, devoid of
both the comfort and tempta-
tion of women.
These reflections were
prompted by the first Perth
presentation of Beckett’s fasci-
nating play, produced by
Katherine Brisbane for the
Graduate Dramatic Society at
the Assembly Hall.
Beckett’s theatrical skill is
extraordinary; on stage his
characters have a vitality far
less readily perceived in read-
ing ; and the rise and fall of
his dramatic rhythms induce
amazing tension in a play
entirely without plot. The pro-
ducer, particularly in the first
act, made full use of these
evasive changes.
Wilfred Dowsett, always a
sincere player, excelled himself
as the little tramp (Vladimir) ;
Rupert Sadka gave him able
support.
Bradley’s landowner and
industrialist was to some
extent foiled by insufficient
abject horror in Buck’s Lucky:
a silent part of importance is
a trap for all but the most
expert.
This lack was redeemed,
however, when Lucky was
asked “to think” for the enter-
tainment of the others, and
Buck turned-on a terrifying
stream of intellectual nonsense
and jargon, highlighting the
whole of the play’s random and
irresponsible dialogue that
often so disconcertingly sounds
as if it were oneself and one’s
acquaintances pursuing a
logical conversation, really say-
ing something—or presuming
so.
Australian in feeling, the set
by Maurice Jones was most
attractive.
It is impossible not to laugh
at, precariously enjoy and feel
appalled by this arid satire.
But the world the author has
created is a sterile world, cut
off from all biological im-
pulses, and therefore, as a
satire on mankind, entirely
phony. Unless, of course, it
was Beckett’s intention to dis-
play to what a pass the
theoretical bias of men,
opposed to the biological im-
pulses of women, has brought
our contemporary world—
which is unthinkable.
H. D.-B.
♦Jf hJ*
“Measure for Measure”
Canberra Repertory’s pro-
duction of the Graeme Hughes
and Bob Brissenden idea of
this play was superb. But it
wasn’t Shakspeare’s play.
Shakspeare’s play was about
religion and morality; or,
rather, about two different
attitudes to religion and
morality—the Catholic and
the Calvinist. What bothered
him, and stirred him to the
very depths, was the attempt
by some Calvinists to revive
the Mosaic punishment for
adultery—which was death,
“and the eye of pity shall not
behold him.”
Shakspeare thought this was
monstrous, and wrote a play
to show what monsters these
New Men were ; weaving into
it his traditional themes about
death (“. . . the long journey”).
But instead of this play the
Rep. presented us with one of
the great fantasies of modern
man: that the people who
drink in pubs, and go openly
for sexual promiscuity, are
much nicer people than those
who are driven to punish such
behavior. Because we didn’t
see a Calvinist in action —a
man filled with loathing for
filthy dalliance, with nothing
in his creed to permit forgive-
ness —we had nothing to set
up against the Catholic view,
put quietly and convincingly
by lan Bell, nor the life-
affirmer’s view, created with
force and dignity by Tony
Dingle. So we were left with-
out that feeling of tremendous
indignation Shakspeare must
have felt when he first realised
what the New Men were up to.
M. C.
♦t«
Moira Lister
Moira Lister, the blonde
beauty who has been present-
ing “People in Love” at the
Nicholas Hall in Melbourne,
includes in her repertoire
eight short-stories, none of
which could be said to be par-
ticularly profound, yet each
of which seems to have more
fascination in three dimen-
sions than in two. That is
her magic.
Miss Lister’s authors are
Maupassant, Dorothy Parker,
Jose d’Almeida, Tom Croker
and Edgar Allan Poe, all of
whom are incapable of telling
a dull story, but very capable
of resounding platitudes and
bouncing melodrama.
Miss Lister has obviously
gone for stories which lend
themselves to reading and can
be helped by the stage-
techniques at which she is
most skilled. She has also
chosen stories for the sort
of audience that likes its back-
bone thrilled with suspense
and melodrama rather than
with characterisation.
These qualities were abund-
ant in Maupassant’s “The
Chairmender,” in which a
doctor tells of a strange little
woman who tries to com-
municate her love to an
indifferent and money-grub-
bing chemist. There are
baddies as well as goodies in
the story ; the baddies moti-
vated by pride, greed and
class considerations, and the
goodies impoverished in all but
human feelings. Miss Lister
brings out what depth there is
in the story, and leaves no
doubt as to where her sym-
pathies lie.
Dorothy Parker, the Ameri-
can wit and storyteller, is best
represented by “The Waltz,”
the monologue of a city lady
who has consented, against her
better judgment, to dance with
a clodhopping partner.
M. G. S.
“Erik” Presentations, 1958
The Erik Kuttner statuettes
for the best actor and actress
for the Melbourne season,
1958, will be presented by
John McCallum at the
Assembly Hall, Collins Street,
Melbourne, at 1 p.m. on
Thursday, April 23, 1959.
This year, three distinct
awards are to be made. The
Erik Kuttner (“Eriks”) for the
best actor and actress; the
Dolia Ribush award for the
best producer; and a new
award, given by Miss Irene
Mitchell, of the Little Theatre,
South Yarra, for the best set-
design.
The panel of critics for the
awards was: Harry Standish
(Melbourne “Herald”); Colin
Bennett (“Age”); Howard
Palmer (“Sun Pictorial”); and
Robert Money (“Listener in-
TV”).
The awards are made
annually and are for perform-
ances in Melbourne by pro-
fessional or amateur artists
normally resident in Australia.
❖ *l* *l*
Feld String Quartet
Coming at short notice to
fill the cancelled engagements
of the Barylli Quartet, these
players—three Hungarians and
a Pole —demonstrated in their
first Sydney concert for Musica
Viva that they are capable of
fine tonal balance.
Their playing in the
o Continued on page 54 )


* —3STX
. xx.,: i
ppapppp
mm
s ' n
S'-
SBM9R
SS&& ::im&
mm m
Si»*
. :
0
* i
m
Mii
m&i*' ■ * *^r
-“W* •,;:; X* 5 '
x***
n
#
has pleasure in
announcing a further
- FOR THE THIRD
SUCCESSIVE YEAR
Holders of A.M.P.
participating policies
now enjoy the
HIGHEST BONUS RATES
SINCE 1930
; '£\
a
E
AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA ]
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
CECIL H. HOSKINS, Chairman; S. G. ROWE, Deputy Chairman; THE HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.;
G. GORDON RUSSELL; C. G. CRANE; VINCENT C. FAIRFAX;
M. C. BUTTFIELD, General Manager.
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding Z 400,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
RI23G


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownliills.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax" Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: 11W 1771 —BW 8088
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
’lTSToolworths’ opening gambit in the
’ ’ food-retailing championships, the
takeover in March, 1958, of Queensland
chain-grocer B.C.C. Holding Co., was
countered immediately by Coles’s move
in buying-out a Victorian equivalent in
John Connell Dickens, Ltd. This initial
skirmish has had no sequel thus far, but
the end-game could be lively.
The B.C.C. (i.e., Brisbane Cash and
Carry) organisation operates a chain of
39 self-service grocery-cwm-delicatessen-
CHwz-meat stores in Queensland and
northern N.S.W., and is, at present,
operating separately under an unchanged
management. B.C.C. is an older hand in
the chain-retailing industry than Wool-
worths, to whom it has in the past con-
ceded nothing in efficiency and relative
earning-power. Before the merger it was
disclosing an earning - rate of 34.5 p.c.,
against Woolworths’ 15.4 p.c. (1958),
although its ordinary div.-rate at 12 p.c.
was the same.
The takeover will, of course, to some
extent influence Woolworths’ expansion
in those areas where it is likely to enter
into competition with its newly adopted
offshoot. Nevertheless, 16 new Wool-
worths branches were opened during the
year, and Woolworths and B.C.C. stores
now operating in Australia and N.Z.
number 290 (Coles, incidentally, has
about 305 stores, including 54 acquired
from John Connell Dickens, Ltd.).
The real benefits of the B.C.C. take-
over of March, 1958. didn’t show-up this
year, for Woolworths’ übiquitous chain-
store empire continues to overspread
metropolitan and provincial Australia and
N.Z. with unabated —even increased —
momentum.
While not an operating expense, cost
of development of new, and of relocation
of existing, branches has acted as a
temporary dampener on the relative rate
of earning on a substantially higher
ordinary capital.
Profit for the ordinaries actually fell
slightly below the £1,146,275 required to
satisfy the 12 p.c. div.-rate, cut from 15
p.c., on the higher capital, but no alarm
need be felt in that account.
This was one of the rare terms when
the consolidated net earnings of the com-
pany failed to set a new record, but the
fall itself was of little moment, accounts
disclosing £1,158,697, as against
£1,174,552 in 1957-58. The profit-figure
was struck after £752,875 (£724,493 last
year) had been set aside for taxation,
£102,661 (£99,655) apportioned to outside
shareholders, and something (£256,215
last year) charged for depreciation. Pre-
acquisition profits of £122,046 are ex-
cluded from the profit-figure:
Parent Co.
r— —Dividends ,
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. R**-
Jan., Profit. 10 d.c. 7 p.c. 15 d.c. serves.*
1954.. 627,984 7500 14,000 514,122 928,189
From development reserve, £61,172 . . 867,017
1955 .. 870,383 7500 14,000 599,739 1,122,161
From development reserve, £112,576 1,009,585
1956 .. 953,103 7500 14,000 642,548 1,298,640
Share premiums, £790,676 .. .. 2,089,316
From development reserve, £106.174 1,983,142
1957 . . 1,007,473 7500 14,000 791,648 2,177,467
Parent and Subsidiaries.t
Added on consolidation, £2,506,550+.. 3.805,190
Share-premiums, £790,676 .. .. 4,595,866
From development reserve, £174,926.. 4,420,940
Add reduction intangibles, £33,516. .4.454,456
1957 . . 1.079,7001 7500 14.000 791,684 4,721,008
Share-premiums, £55,861 .. ..4,776,819
From development reserve, £133,705.. 4,643,164
Less added intangibles, £1561 .. 4,641,603
1958 . . 1,174,552 7500 14,000 898,420 4,896.235
Added revaluation reserves, £693,153 5,589,388
Share premiums, £394,543 .. .. 5,983,931
Preacquisition profits and reserves,
etc., £854,056 6,837,987
Taxation overprovided, £2657 ..6,840,644
From development reserve, £304,175 6.536,469
Less added intangibles, £261,317 . . 6,275,152
12 p.c.
1959 .. 1,158,697 7500 14,000 1,146,275 6,266,074
* After deducting intangibles, £666,941 at 2S/l/’O9.
t Excluding Woolworths N.Z., Ltd.
t After adjusting tax-provisions.
New capital issued during the year
totalled £913,131 in ss. ordinary shares
(scrip to the value of £762,476 was
allotted to former B.C.C. shareholders).
Another special placement was £ 136,250-
worth of equities, issued to finance the
purchase and development of some free-
hold properties, including a food-
warehouse in Sydney and a new ware-
house in Brisbane. These last shares each
carried a heavy loading in the form of
a 13s. 3d. premium, which added more
than £360,000 to reserves.
And now ordinary capital is lapping
at the £lO-million-mark, having far
more than doubled over the past four
years. Woolworths’ 35-year career pro-
vides a spectacle of brilliant expansion,
but the question now to be faced is
whether anything approaching the same
relative increase 'of capital can be
expected as in the past. Or will the
B.C.C. takeover set the pattern for future
development? True, increment gains
over the past decade have been more
than attractive. In order, since 1950,
there have been, for ord. shareholders,
issues of one-for-four at ss. premium,
one-for-three at par, one-for-three bonus,
one-for-four at par (twice), and, in
.1957-58, one-for-two at par.
For the industrious and mathematically
inclined, this progression may provide an
interesting exercise in the scaling-up of
portfolios, but it could also be very mis-
leading when applied to sharemarket
prognostics. Investors seem to be strain-
ing the possibilities of the stock in offer-
ing 19s. 4d. for an immediate yield of
3.1 p.c., and at this price those looking
for a reasonable future income would do
well to consult an expectation-of-life
table as it applies to their own age.
When the books were closed on
January 28 last, there was £7,909,600 of
more-or-less liquid assets against
£6,478,427 of current liabilities. Against
this, Woolworths is in the happy position
of being able to economise on working-
capital, which probably turns over close to
a half-dozen times a year. The short
period in which stock is held on average,
and the cash basis of merchandising,
also makes the risk of bad debts and
price-fluctuations negligible, while enabl-
ing the company to secure the best credit
terms available:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.*
Paid capital—' 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref. .. £275,000 £275,000 £275,000
Old. .. 5,774,661 8,695,949 9,609.070
Reserves? .. 5,125,071 5,301,859 6,933,015
Minority interests 1,675,870 1,681,010 1,747,010
Mortgages, etc. 3,679,785 3,902,042 4,584,373
Notes . . ' .. 1,045,000 1,490,000 1,735.000
Overdraft .. 926,804 382,715 1,763,128
Creditors, etc.. . 1,397,897 1,557,577 2,656,383
Staff fund . . 60,105 60,105
Tax provision 1,264.167 1,331,124 1.375,531
Final divs. .. 915,614 924,165 683,385
Suspense .. - 8,082 108,221
£22,142,974 £25,609,628 £31,470,116
Fixed assets .. 14,098,429 17,197.617 21,142,038
Investments .. 1,124,122 1,172,910 1,750,937
Stock .. 5,999,158 5,812.505 7,393,710
Loans .. .. 156.583 110,364 79,911
Debtors 272,189 291,499 277,788
Cash, etc. .. 85,017 619.109 158,191
Intangibles .. 404,063 405,624 666,941
Suspense .. 3,413 -—■ —-
£22,142,974 £25,609.628 £31,470,116
* Excludes accounts of Woolworths N.Z., Ltd.
Movements last year reflect to a large
extent the incorporation of B.C.C.
accounts in the group figures. Accounts
for Woolworths N.Z., Ltd., aren't con-
solidated with those of the parent com-
pany, and it seems probable that the
figure shown for investments (at cost or
valuation), £1.750,937, although up-
graded by £578,027 during the year, is
well short of actual market-valuation.
New raisings on fixed-interest paper
totalled £300,000, representing the amount
drawn on £1 million of 7 p.c. notes issued
during the term and redeemable 1960-
1970. This mode of borrowing has thus
far brought in £1,735,000, and, in rela-
tion to overall indebtedness and share-
holders’ funds, seems to have been
exploited very modestly as a source of
relatively cheap money.
In 1956 freehold properties were
revalued and written-up by £2,288,263 in
the consolidated accounts, and a further
£693,153 was added to the relevant reserve
last year, presumably as a result of the
B.C.C. takeover. However, a bonus-issue


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
I’. K. LEVY
striovAan 'd -v
oxnMOa r i a it
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, R. A. McINNES, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 (4 Lines) PA). Box No. 1887 W
looks for the moment a fairly distant
hope.
including the development reserve,
shareholders’ funds on book-values gave
each ss. of scrip a net tangible cover of
Bs. 3d. last balance-day.
York Motors (Holding), Ltd.
Although a further improvement in
the earnings of York Motors’
thriving hire-purchase offshoot took some
of the sting out of a fall in vehicle sales
last term, profit-margins on both new-
car sales and h.-p. transactions were
finer, and the group finished the year
with net profit down by 20 p.c., at the
lowest point since 1947.
The provision of credit-facilities, either
directly or through an established finance-
house, is an almost inescapable require-
ment, these days, for retailers of most
consumer-durables, and, while many
leading motor-vehicle distributors pass-on
the bulk of their h.-p. business to big
h.-p. concerns, York Motors decided to
go for the double profit late in 1954,
using the property - holding subsidiary,
Glasgow Investments Pty., for the pur-
pose. But for this move, which quickly
soaked-up idle cash resources and was
soon calling for outside money, last
term’s group-profit would probably have
been considerably thinner, a £2.3-miilion
jump in h.-p. outstandings since the end
of the 1955 term giving some indication
of the extent to which h.-p. earnings have
contributed to overall results in the last
couple of years.
Through York Motors Pty. and
Dominion Motors, the Sydney-registered
York Motors (Holding), Ltd., holds
N.S.W. franchises for Chrysler, Plymouth,
Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Simca, Singer and
Studebaker cars and Dodge and Willys
trucks, while in the Sydney metropolitan
area the wholly-owned Lancaster Motors
Pty. is co-distributor (with Peter Lloyd
Industries) of Morris, Wolseley and Riley
vehicles and Nuffield tractors, a range
for which it is also sole distributor in
Parramatta and district.
In Queensland the group is represented
by U.K. Motors Pty., State-distributor
of Austin products, and by Dominion
Motors (Queensland) Pty., which has the
Queensland franchise for Rolls-Royce
and Bentley cars, Willys trucks, Oliver
tractors and Britstand and Aveling-
Barford road-machinery, etc.
On the manufacturing side, group in-
terests stretch to a shareholding in
Willys Motors (Aust.) Pty., an offshoot
of the Willys Motor Corp. of U.S. The
local co. is currently extending the out-
put of Australian-assembled Jeeps and
has as an ultimate aim the production of
an all-Australian Jeep.
The post-v/ar boom in motor-vehicle
sales gave York Motors some very fat
profits, group earnings at their peak,
£995,569, in 1950, equalling a juicy 146.4
p.c. on a paid capital newly-increased by
a one-for-five bonus-issue.
A one-for-three par issue took the
one-class capital to the present £906,666
in 1952, but a 30 p.c. fall in new registra-
tions over that year and the next, together
with a revival of competitive selling, had
reduced earnings to less than 45 p.c. of
the 1950 figure by the end of the 1953
term. Three years later the growing
share of the market going to Holden
distributors and the steep increase in the
rates of sales-tax on motor-vehicles left
the net showing at £240,539 and the
earning-rate at 26.5 p.c.
Raised from 25 p.c. to 30 p.c. in 1951,
the div.-rate was undisturbed by the
decline in earnings until 1956, the 224
p.c. div. sent out in that year being
iollowed by a 20 p.c. payout in 1957
and 1958, with last month’s interim,
based, in fact, on trading in the second
half of last term, being calculated at
the rate of 15 p.c. p.a.
Registration statistics from the States
in which the group operates show a fall
in sales of Austin, Morris and Chrysler
vehicles last year, and, although there
were more Simca, Singer and Wolseley
cars put on the road, price-reductions
and a decline in the number of vehicles
sold combined to produce a sharp cut
in the gross earnings of the distributing
subsidiaries.
A bigger h.-p. income sent total gross
earnings a shade ahead of the previous
term’s figure, but a higher interest-bill,
stamp-duty and other items related to
the expansion of the h.-p. offshoot
pushed-up total expenses by £99,549, pre-
tax earnings shrinking by £94,320 after
allowing a little-changed £26,363 for
depreciation. A smaller tax-provision
(down £40,658 at £114,173) limited the
contraction in net profit to £53,662, the
£209,671 claimed for the year represent-
ing a return of 23.1 p.c. on share-
capital :
Consolidated Figures.
To Re- Re-
Xov., Profit, r Dividends , serves. serves.*
1991. . 929,256 30 p.c. = 204,000 725,256 1,989,300
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 1,969,300
Less net adjustments, £4B .. .. 1,969,252
1952. .480,521 30 p.c. = 223,833 256,688 2,225,940
Add net adjustments, £689 .. .. 2,226,629
1953. .413,100 30 p.c. = 272,000 141,100 2.367,729
1954. .502,364 30 „ ~272,000 230,364 2,598,093
From, stock reserve, £200,000 .. 2,798,093
1955. .440,630 30 p.c. = 272,000 168,630 2,966,723
Added intangibles, £19,807 .. .. 2,946,916
1956. .240,539 22|p.c.= 36,539 2,983,455
Tax underprovided, £4796 .. .. 2,978,659
Capital profits, £29,906 .. .. 3,008,565
Intangibles w/off, £5167 .'. .. 3,013,732
Reductions spec, reserve, £12,203 .. 3,001,529
1957. .263,333 20 p.e.= 151.332 82,001 3,083,530
Note-issue expenses, w/off, £15,903.. 3,067,627
Reduction contingency reserve, £6903 3,060,724
Capital profits, £49,222 . . . . 3,109,946
1958. .209,671 20 p.c. = 181,332 28,339 3,138,285
* After deducting intangibles written out of the
accounts in 1958.
Capital-profits amounted to a further
£49,222 and arose from the sale of scrip
in Chrysler Australia, Ltd. (under an
escrow agreement with the U.S, parent
co.), and from the sale of a property at
Mascot (Sydney).
The property-sale was in accordance
with plans for relocating various opera-
tions on freehold land closer to the city
area of Sydney, the building-costs in-
volved to be financed, largely, by the
sale of existing propertied. New premises
are at present under construction in both
Sydney and Brisbane and will provide
greater showroom, spare-parts and service
facilities.
From the balance-sheet angle, a grow-
ing number of retailers are coming to
look more and more like financiers every
year and, with over 52 p.c. of total
assets represented by h.-p. outstandings,
York Motors is certainly following the
general trend:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £906,666 £906,666 £906,666
Reserves .. .. 3,003,262 3,098,170 3,138,285
Overdraft.. .. 90,459 203,571
•Votes, etc. .. 600.000 600,000 1,200,000
Deposits . . ~ 853,047 934,334 863,709
Creditors, etc. .. 654,288 723,271 580,314
Unearned income. . 247,312 372,549 453,382
Tax provision .. 157,301 154,531 114,482
Staff fund .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
£6,446,876 £6,905,280 £7,485,409
Freeholds, etc. .. 617,969 605,886 441,925
Riant .. .. 195,209 187,365 172,879
Stocks .. .. 2,568.479 2,164,915 2,113,382
Bebtors .. .. 652,341 718,204 793,664
H.-p. accounts .. 2,174,955 3,069,983 3,892,421
Investments .. 71,136 77,036 69,272
Cash, etc. .. 146,980 62,251 1,866
Intangibles .. 19,807 14,640
£6,440,876 £6,905,280 £7,485,409
H.-p. outstandings jumped by £822,438
to £3,892,421 last term, £600,000 of
note-money being raised to help feed the
h.-p. co. The notes have a currency of
five years and carry interest at the rate
of 8 p.c. p.a., as against the 6| p.c. paid
on the £600,000 of five-year money raised
in 1955. This increase in interest-rates,
along with the reduction from 7 p.c.
to 6 p.c. in hiring-charges on new vehicles,
narrowing-down h.-p. profit-margins.
Apart from the notes, the main sources
of funds were the overdraft (up £113,112),
the sale and depreciation of fixed assets,
investments, etc. (a net £186,211), and
reductions in both stocks (down £51,533)
and cash holdings (down £60,385), these
movements helping to finance a £213,582
cut in the amount owing to creditors and
depositors and a £75,460 increase in
trade-debtors. Excluding h.-p. outstand-
ings and the provision for unearned in-
come (an adequate 11.6 p.c. of h.-p.
debts), there was 645. 9d. in current assets,
at balance-date, for every £ of current
liabilities and provisions.
The growth of the h.-p. debt should
be reflected in the earnings of Glasgow
Investments in the current term, but the
fiercely competitive new-car market
doesn’t appear to offer the distributing
subsidiaries much scope for improving
their position. Nevertheless, a 174 p.c.
div. could be within the group’s capa-
city, the ss. ords. returning £7 19s. Id.
p.c., on this basis, at 11s., with the yield


yo^
[to*
will tell you—
m
k
WHY it is necessary to
revise your Will from
time to time
For example:
• Assets specifically left to individuals
by Will are sometimes changed, sold or
given away by a Testator in his lifetime,
with the result that those he wished to
benefit might not receive anything at all.
If you deal with any of your possessions,
pause to consider the effect on your Will.
• Marriage revokes any Will made before
marriage—except a Will which expressly
states it was made in contemplation of
that marriage.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
does not prepare Wills but is always
available to act as your Executor. Why
not call and discuss your Will with us?
There is no obligation on your part.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR & TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
DIRECTORS: HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., CHAIRMAN;
SIR EDWARD KNOX, vice-chairman; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; JOHN W. DUNLOP; JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ARMYTAGE, MANAGING DIRECTOR.
W. S. MATTHEWS, MANAGER.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £90.000.000.
3 3-3 9 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT ORANGE A TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M L.C. BUH.DING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA CITY.
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDITION TO THOSE MENTIONED ABOVH;
WARREN D. McDONALD (vice-chairman),
S. G. McFARLANE, NEVILLE C. MILSON.
falling to £6 16s. 4d. p.c. in
the event of a 15 p.c. distribu-
tion. Net tangible cover for
the scrip at November 30 last
was over twice market-value
at a whopping 225. 4d.
Fairymead Sugar Co., Ltd.
TVature dealt Fairymead
-f ' a far better hand last
term than it did in the preced-
ing year, a record harvest and
crushing following the drought-
depleted outturn for 1957.
As with all primary-pro-
ducers, Fairymead has had its
share of good and bad seasons,
but extensions to the co.’s
irrigation-system carried out
too late to be effective in the
1957 season—have now greatly
strengthened its defences
against drought and can be
expected to lessen the impact
of dry conditions on future
earnings.
On balance, of course, Fairy-
mead has coped quite success-
fully in the past with the
inherent hazards of sugar-
growing and -milling, and in
the 47 years since it took over
the Fairymead plantation the
co. has accumulated visible
reserves of £1,585,951 to
support its £750,000 paid
capital. At the same time, new
issues have been few and far
between, shareholders partici-
pating in only two major issues
since formation, a one-for-two
bonus in 1936 and a one-for-
two cash issue, at a 50 p.c.
premium, in 1952. Well within
average earnings, the div.-rate
has averaged 11.6 p.c. over the
past 10 years, last term’s pay-
out being held at the 12 p.c.
level.
Primarily concerned with the
growing and crushing of sugar-
cane in the Bundaberg district
of Queensland, Fairymead also
has copra and trading interests
in the Solomon Islands and
owns a cattle-run in N.S.W.
The 1958 season brought the
co. a bumper harvest, the mill
crushing 331,000 tons (up
148,880 tons) of cane for
43,100 tons (up 20,194 tons) of
94 n.t. sugar, the mill-peak
remaining unchanged at 37,500
tons. However, average prices
were down on those of the
previous year, world markets
reacting to the steep price-
rises and the subsequent in-
crease in supply that followed
the Suez crisis:
Overall
Season. No. 1 Pool.* Average.*
1954 .. £42 9 11 £4l 4 7
1955 .. 42 14 2 42 6 5
1956 .. 47 1 9 46 10 6
1957 .. 49 17 2 49 5 0
1958 (est.). 46 16 0 45 10 0
Raw sugar, per ton, 94 n.t.
The price-structure of the
industry is based, broadly, on
the retrirn from domestic sales,
“negotiated - price” exports
under the British Common-
wealth Sugar Agreement and
free-market exports.
The British Commonwealth
agreement, which operates
within the framework of the
International Sugar Agreement,
called for a steady 300,000 tons
of sugar last year at a negoti-
ated price of £stg.43 16s. Bd.
a ton (up £stg. 1 13s. 4d. a ton).
Total (actual) exports for the
year amounted to 651,058
tons (down approximately
117,000 tons) and included
19,096 tons covering shortfalls
by other Commonwealth ex-
porters. Export and other
quotas are passed on to
individual producers in the
form of mill quotas, reduced
payments being made for
sugar accepted in excess of the
No. 1 quota or “mill-peak.”
Completion of the bulk-
loading terminal at the new
Bundaberg port enabled Fairy-
mead’s output to be handled
in bulk, last year, the new
system, along, with altered
transport-arrangements, func-
tioning “very smoothly.” The
rezoning of cane supplies, im-
provements to the mill and the
development of the co.’s tram-
way (to the exclusion of the
State Government railway)
should also assist in counter-
ing increases in wage-rates and
other expenses which, with the
fall in average prices, helped to
keep last term’s net profit
£33,472 below the record
showing made in 1956:
Re-
Dec., Profit. , Dividend— ■, serves.*
£ £ • £
’53..137,618 12 p.c. = 90,000 1,052,180
Added replacement reserve,
£15,316 1,103,496
To insurance res., £2500.. 1,105,996
’54..185,018 14 p.c. -105,000 1,186,014
Added replacement reserve,
£37,224 1,223,238
To insurance res., £415.. 1,223,653
’55..131,655 12 p.c. = 90,000 1,265,308
Added replacement reserve,
£60,828 1.326,136
To insurance res., £1431.. 1,327,567
’56..201,318 12 p.c. = 90.000 1,438,885
Added replacement reserve,
£10,830 .. . . . . 1,449,715
Profit sale assets, £53,095 1,502,810
’57.. 9,394 12 p.c. = 90,000 1,422,204
Profit sale assets, £24,806 1,447,010
Added replacement reserve,
£61,095 1,508.105
’58..167,846 12 p.c. = 90,000 1,585,951
* Includes replacement reserve, £694,984
at 31/12/’5B.
An improvement of £158,452
on the previous term’s effort,
the £167,846 profit claimed last
term represented a return of
22.3 p.c. on share-capital, com-
pared with a dismal 1.2 p.c. in
1957 and 26.8, 17.6 and 24.6
p.c. back to 1954. Provision for
depreciation was up £7833 at
£69,800, the usual secrecy
being maintained in regard to
the tax provision.
Over the last half-a-dozen
years the co. has carried out a
big farm-development project
(draining, clearing and culti-
vating close to 3000 acres of
land subsequently sold to pri-
vate cane-farmers) made ex-
tensive additions to tramway-
and irrigation-works and
greatly increased mill capacity,
the book-value ot fixed assets
increasing by £1,000,000 since
the end of the 1952 term.
A slackening in capital-
expenditure last term and the
sizeable profit-retention halted
the drain on working-capital
but at December 31 the value
given to current assets was
still £194,396 short of the total
against current liabilities and
provisions. However, judging
by past performances, the
nature of the business and the
generally conservative aspect
of the accounts, finances may
(<Continued on page 32)


The Metamorphosis of a Dynasty of "Living Gods"
A “GOD” NO LONGER
By STEPHEN KELEN
Japanese Crown Prince
Akihito Tsugu-no-miya’s
marriage to Miss Michiko
Shoda, the miller’s daugh-
ter, has completed the “un-
deification” of the Japanese
imperial family.
There is a lot more behind
the love-story of a handsome
Oriental prince to a beautiful
commoner than a simple
romance. It marks the end of
a myth that lasted for more
than two - and -a - half mil-
leniums, and represents a chal-
lenge thrown by Hirohito and
his son to the diehards of pre-
war Japan who are busily
trying to erase all democratic
measures the Allied Occupa-
tion planted in the country.
Beyond the fagade of glitter-
ing exhibitions and gestures of
half-baked democracy a resur-
gence of the bad old days fully
fermented. But to attain a
measure of success, re-establish-
ment of Hirohito as the “god-
head” of the nation, and his
discreet support, were neces-
sary.
Since the Meiji restoration,
the Emperor was the rallying-
point of all nationalistic ambi-
tions. The Japanese were born,
lived and died for the Tenno
(“the Son of Heaven”); their
only purpose in life was to
serve him. He was, at least to
all outward appearances, the .
very essence of all Nipponese.
Their importance lay in the
fact that a living god personally
directed the destiny of a whole
country. The Japanese did not
fight and die for their country,
but for the main Kami
(Emperor god), the pinnacle of
the hierarchy.
Here is an interesting, and,
to Westerners, little-known
point: after their death every
Japanese becomes a kami —a
god—to his family, but so far
as their descendants are con-
cerned, they remain during
their earthly sojourn ordinary
human-beings. The Emperor
and his eldest male child, how-
ever, are deities right, through
their existence.
But “divinity” was only half
of the significance the imperial
family meant to the Japanese.
The other, and perhaps the
more important, part was the
claim that the descendants of
Amaterasu, the Sun Goddess,
have ruled over Japan in an
unbroken lineage for the last
2619 years.
As with many other things,
this claim of antiquity is very
much a hoax. Your Japanese
host would point to an impres-
sive temple and say: “This
place of worship is a thousand
years old.” In reality he means
that there has been a temple
of some sort on that spot for
the last thousand years. Several
times it has burnt down, or
A posed portrait of Emperor Hirohito in his study.
just rotted away, but it was
rebuilt on every occasion.
Hence its great “age.”
In the same way the
“imperial line" had been inter-
rupted several times by
murders, adoptions, court-
dalliance and assorted intrigues,
but the disruptions were never
publicly acknowledged.
The Meiji Constitution called
the Emperor sacred, inviolable,
descending from a “line of
Emperors unbroken for ages
eternal.” The masses wor-
shipped the power and
antiquity of the throne just as
much as its divine origin.
Most Japanese still believe
that Hirohito and his son
are the descendants of
Emperor Jimmu Tenno, founder
of the Empire of the Rising
Sun, and Amaterasu-O-Mi-
Kami (The Heaven Illuminat-
ing Great August Deity), the
“ancestress of the endless line.”
Amaterasu, according to the
legend (which has been taught
as the absolute truth to the
Japanese), commanded her
grandson, Ninigo-Mikoto, the
great-grandfather of Emperor
Jimmu, the “first earthly
being” in the imperial line, to
descend on Oyashima—the
ancient name of Japan, mean-
ing the “Great Right Island”
—and establish a kingdom
there. And so Ninigi, with his
trusted advisers, alighted on
the summit of the eastern peak
of Mount Kirishima, on the
island of Kyushu, and remained
there with his son and grand-
son until Jimmu in 667 b.c.
started out east to conquer the
islands of Japan.
Jimmu Tenno, after putting
the legendary trimmings aside,
probably was a powerful chief-
tain of one of the clans who
managed to unite the other
tribes of the same racial origin,
and conquered the islands of
Kyushu, Honshu, Shikoku.
His descendants then pushed
further north, conquered the
hairy Ainus, and established
themselves on the island of
Hokkaido as well. But as time
went by the Emperors felt less
inclined to expose themselves
to personal dangers, and
entrusted their minor chiefs to
organise warfare, collect taxes
and take care of the welfare
and protection of the imperial
family.
Entrusting practical leader-
ship to others eventually
resulted in the imperial house
ruling in name only.
In their stead came the de
facto leaders of the nation.
The shoguns (“shogun” means,
among other things, a
commander-in-chief, a tycoon,
a barbarian-subduing general)
ruled for seven centuries, keep-
ing the Emperors as political
pawns in their bloody games.
Civil wars were a natural state
of life in old Japan.
☆ ☆ ☆
'T'he Japanese hardly saw
A their Emperors, who were
brought out from seclusion
only when it was found neces-
sary to influence public
opinion. The imperial families
through the ages lived in miser-
able seclusion in Kyoto, in
such poverty that obtaining
their daily rice was often a
grave problem. It has been
recorded that one of the Ashi-
kaga shoguns, in the 16th
century, half - jokingly re-
marked, “It would be cheaper
to have an Emperor made of
wood instead of one who eats,
drinks and can do nothing
else.”
The shoguns changed as the
tide of wars favored one clan
against the other, but the
imperial system, and the
“unbroken lineage,” managed
to survive the fortunes of
Japanese history. The 18th
century and restoration found
the Tokugawa shoguns in
power, and young Mutsuhito,
who later became the
Emperor Meiji, living on a
wretched pension in his Kyoto
Palace, claiming divinity and
respect and being treated as a
pauper.
There, to the Kyoto Palace,
came Prince Ito, the father of
the Japanese Constitution, to
ask Emperor Komei (Mutsu-
hito’s father) to take over from
the shogun Tokugawa. He
found Komei dead, and took
Mutsuhito to Tokyo. The pair


were received reluctantly by the
Tokugawas and leaders of the
powerful Satsuma and Chosu
clans, who accepted the “divine
intruder” because he was the
only person capable of unify-
ing the nation against the
Occidental barbarians, whose
monstrous black ships and for-
midable weapons threatened
the sacred soil of Nippon.
Unity was foremost in Ito’s
mind when he drew-up his
“Constitution and Commen-
taries” in 1889. To achieve his
aim, Ito drew heavily on the
Emperor myth, which was
swallowed hook, line and
sinker by the Japanese.
Perhaps Prince Ito, a genuine
Liberal, assassinated by a
Korean patriot at the Harbin
railway-station, would have
regretted his creation just as
much as many Japanese poli-
ticians who tried to fight the
increasing tide of militarism
and were killed-off by political
hooligans.
Meanwhile, the Emperor
myth was publicised and
steadily built up by the Tokyo
megalomaniacs, who decided
to make a complete change in
policy from their ancestors.
For three centuries previous
to the restoration, Japan was
completely isolated from the
outside world. Now, in a
volte-face, they decided to
bring the earth, eventually,
under the “benevolent rule” of
the Emperor.
Emperor Meiji died in 1912.
A gigantic shrine was built to
house his soul, and he became
the god Meiji. Crown Prince
Yoshihito then received the
three sacred symbols (the
mirror, sword and necklace)
the ruler of Japan must pos-
sess, and lived in splendid iso-
lation, giving a free hand to
the militarists, just as his
father did. When he was
enshrined as “the god Taisho”
in 1926, and Hirohito took his
place, there was nothing to
stop the Tokyo fanatics in their
preparation for the Great
Attempt.
Baron Tanaka wrote his
“Memorial” in 1927, setting
out the plan for Japan’s world-
conquest, and speaking of a
100-years’ war, in “which
many rounds can be lost, but
the last one is certain to end
in the Emperor’s victory.” The
Japanese heatedly denied the
document as a “mere propa-
gandist fabrication,” but what-
ever it may have been, it con-
tained some very accurate
prophecy right to the point of
Japan possibly losing the first
round of a war which was
supposed to last, if necessary,
for a full century.
* * *
/''VN the surface of it the logi-
cal conclusion was for us,
after World War 11, to destroy
the Emperor myth. Change
Japan into a republic, indict
Hirohito along with others
responsible for the war, or
make him abdicate in favor of
his son, some American
authorities maintained.
Their argument was that the
removal of the Emperor would
create no difficulties. After
all, Japan was ruled for seven
centuries by shoguns and local
potentates, and homage to the
nominal ruler was even con-
sidered treason by the lords
in power.
Was not the imperial house’s
value highly overestimated,
and a mere tool in the hands
of propagandists? And, sup-
posing the Emperor was all
that we were made to believe
he was —then would not the
only way to show the Japanese
that they lost the war be
removing him from the throne?
Whether the Emperor was
all-important, or insignificant,
these groups argued, he must
give place for another person,
or institution. Emperor-worship
—reality or farce —should not
be continued. The evil
Ftihrer concept,'’supported by
Shinto, must go!
Snapshot (by the author) of Hirohito “meeting the people”
during the B.C.O.F. period.
Mikasa, the Emperor’s more down-to-earth brother,
and family.
The opposing faction, how-
ever, argued that without the
Emperor’s consent it would be
impossible to conclude an
orderly peace with Japan. Cut-
off the head of the State and
chaos follows. All democratic
changes must be filtered
through the Emperor—he
should be the chief guide and
interpreter for the Western
Powers. No matter how slow,
how tedious the process, Hiro-
hito and his heir to the throne
must be humanised for the
Japanese people.
Emperor Hirohito was all
things to all his subjects. He
was the mirror in which every
Japanese saw himself as he
wanted the ruler to appear in
his mind.
After the imperial surrender
I interviewed dozens of Japan-
ese p.-0.-w. in Borneo, and
they all presented a different
picture of their ruler.
Many of them were tired of
the war, and they insisted that
the Tenno was peace-loving,
tricked into the war by Tojo
and his followers. Others
stoically insisted that they were
carrying out his will to set his
mind at.ease. It was everyone’s
duty to work, fight, suffer and
die for the Emperor, but he
was not responsible for the
war.
Ex-Premier Katsuko Okada,
a hard-boiled Japanese poli-
tician from the bad old days,
during the Japanese war-
criminal trials by the Inter-
national Military Tribunal in
Tokyo was asked by chief-
prosecutor Joseph B. Keenan
if he was certain that the
Emperor, on the eve of Pearl
Harbor, did not want war and
would have done what he could
to avoid it.
“The Emperor,” Okada
replied, “was not concerned in
winning or losing the war. He
disliked war. I am certain of
that.”
Okada, in a very few words,
o Continued on page 44)


36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch (dear.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
INTERIM DIVIDEND No. 88
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that the Directors have declared
an INTERIM DIVIDEND in
respect of the year ending June 30,
1959, of ONE SHILLING sterling
per share, less United Kingdom
Income Tax at standard rate in
force at date of payment, namely
May 20, 1959.
The Transfer Books will be
closed from April 21 to 23, 1959,
both days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the
Dividend will be calculated at the
rate of Exchange ruling on April 20,
1959.
FOR LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED,
R. J. AGNEW,
Attorney.
FIMISTON. W.A.
April 3, 1959.
not be quite as tight as they
appear:—
1957. 1958.
Paid capital .. £750,000 £750,000
Reserves .. 1,422,204 1,585,951
Creditors, etc.* 1,087,114 1,399,977
Final div. .. 45,000 45,000
£3,304,318 £3,780,928
Estates .. 561,614 473,843
Factories, etc. . . 1,890,501 2,046,038
Shares in subsid. 5,300 7,800
Livestock . . 45,158 40,292
Stocks, etc. .. 297,856 278,700
Book debts .. 477,420 929.624
Cash, etc. .. 26,469 4,631
£3,304,318 £3,780,928
* Includes provision for taxation,
overdraft, etc.
Property sales led to a £87,771
reduction in “landed estates”
and, presumably, to the £24,806
of capital-profits, the book-
value of other fixed assets rising
by £155,537. Apart from the
sugar-works, written-up by
£285,475 in 1949, all fixed
assets are shown at cost. Book-
debts jumped by £452,204 over
the year, with tbe higher out-
turn, while £312,863 was added
to the figure under the com-
prehensive heading covering
overdraft, creditors, tax-provi-
sion, “etc.”
The quota of negotiated-
price sugar for export under
the British Commonwealth
agreement in 1959 has been
increased to 307,500 tons and
the price per ton by £stg.-
1 ss. 4d. to £stg. 45 2s. and,
subject, as always, to the
whims of the weather-gods,
good crops of sugar-cane
should be available for harvest-
ing within the next few
months throughout most of -
the sugar areas of Queens-
land. However, at this stage,
prospects for the current year
are partly dependent on the
extent to which production will
be restricted in order to con-
form with export-rights under
the International agreement.
With the heavy carryover of
sugar from last year and con-
tinued weakness in world
prices, it seems probable that
overall production will be
limited to the aggregate of
mill-peaks.
More interested in the long-
term prospects, the share-
market prices Fairymead’s £1
ords. at 515., and, taking its
cue from the size of disclosed
reserves and the wide dividend-
cover, reckons on additional
benefits turning-up sometime in
the future. A final div. (6 p.c.)
will go to shareholders on the
books' on May 16 next, the
scrip, treated on a cum- div.
basis, giving an effective return
of £4 16s. 4d. p.c. from a 12 p.c.
distribution. Net tangible
cover at December 31 last was
625. 3d.
McDowells, Ltd.
CJydneysider McDowells, the
store that “serves you
best,” hasn’t been behind-
hand in its service to share-
holders, either.
Of £643,996 of ord. capital,
£234,180 derives from bonus-
issues of one-for-two in 1956
and one-for-five in 1951. In
1956 there was also a one-for-
three cash issue of 117,090
ords., loaded with a premium
of 100 p.c.
But that looks to be about
it. The present rate of earning
is sufficient to cover a trifling
pref. div. and the p.c.
absorbed by the ords., and
little more.
On the other hand, where
dividends are concerned, the
company shows an unblem-
ished record, and, starting
from 1921, the eye ranges over
results since without finding a
really bad year, even at the
nadir of the depression, 124-
p.c. being the model dividend-
iate.
Unfortunately, McDowells’
scrip is at what looks to be a
prohibitive premium" on
’Change these days, now that
the cream has vanished —50s.
(cz/ra-div.) for a 20s. ordinary
share to return an effective
yield of 5.1 p.c. Against this,
one may put the board’s reluct-
ance to lay all its cards on the
table, in particular in its non-
disclosure of yearly tax-provi-
sions.
McDowells’ store fronts
King and George Streets, and
is located in the busy G.P.O.
block which tends to be the
focal point of Sydney retailing.
Parking is a standing problem,
and a ramshackle and costly
transport system a hurdle for
prospective customers, but this
didn’t prevent McDowells from
recording an all-time high in
turnover last year (to February
28, 1959). Net profit, if not
a peak at £99,366, was never-
theless satisfactory and
slightly higher than that dis-
closed for 1957-58: —
Parent Co.
, Re-
Feb. Profit Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ £ £
54..101,330 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 53,491 512,505
’55..122,022 8 „ 15 ~ 53,491 581,036
Assets revalued, £175,635.. 756,671
’56..110,213 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 53,491 813,393
Reserves capitalised, £175,635 637,758
Share premiums, £117,090.. 754,848
Unexplained reduction, £lOO 754,748
’57..106,023 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 90,081 770,790
Parent and Subsidiary.
Net addition on consolidation
after deducting intangibles 828,029
’58.-97,251 8 p.c. 12ip.c. 81,299 843,981
’59..99,366 8 p.c. 12ip.c. 81,299 862,048
* After deducting intangibles, £7346 at
28/2/’59.
On book-values, the company’s
working-capital looks tight,
but, even so, there was a big
improvement on the previous
year’s liquid position, resulting
from, in the words of
Chairman Frank S. Mc-
Dowell, “a review of stock
levels, and financial procedure
negotiated with an outside
finance house in relation to a
proportion of the big ticket
hire - purchase transactions
recorded.” This could possibly
account for the fall in book-
debts, down from £330,592 to
£272,645: •
Consolidated. Accounts.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959.
Pref. .. £lO,OOO £lO,OOO
Ord. .. 643.996 643,996
Reserves .. 843,981 862,048
Mortgage .. 240,000 232,000
Overdraft .. 122,353 60,188
Deposits .. 18,840 57,356
Creditors .. 268,953 219,115
Tax provision .. 136,212 122,613
Final div. .. 48,700 48,700
£2,333.035 £2,256,016
Freeholds .. 1,298,033 1,294,861
Plant .. .. 257,485 259,598
Stocks . . .. 318,025 289,704
Mortgage . . 60,000 60,000
Shares other cos.,
etc 46,318 54,286
Debtors .. .. 330,592 272,645
Cash, etc. .. 22,582 24,922
£2,333,035 £2,256,016
Although written - up by
£175,635 in 1956, freehold
property doesn’t appear to be
overvalued at £1,225,283; and
the 465. lOd. of net tangible
asset backing shown for each
20s. of equity scrip is derived
from conservative book-values.
Wattle Gully Gold Mines
'T'he decision of Wattle Gully
Gold Mines, N.L., to re-
place its 50-head stamper-
battery with a new ball-mill
should improve recoveries and
profit-margins, and increase
the range of profitable ore.
In recommending the
change, in July, 1958, manag-
ing-director G. W. Vo well
claimed that at an annual
throughput of 60,000 tons of
ore (56,762 tons in 1958), the
improvement in recoveries
would be worth £24,000 a year,
quite apart from considerable
savings in labor costs.
Mine-revenue was approxi-
mately £332,000 in 1957-58,
and net profit £82,677, out of
which divs. amounting to
£31,500 (3s. 6d. a share) were
paid. A div. of Is. a share
went out last month, and the
co. should be able to maintain
the annual rate at 3s. 6d. a
share out of the current year’s
profit and still meet the cost
of the new plant out of internal
funds and retained earnings.
Last September the co. had
£30,000 in bonds, representing
“provision for additional
capital expenditure.”
Paid capital, £38,500, is in
60,000 f.-p. shares of 6s. Bd.
and 120,000 contribs. paid to
3s. 7d. Sellers are currently
asking around 40s. for both
classes of scrip.
Earlier this month, the
reported results of diamond-
drilling at the mine suggested
the possible existence of a
quartz vein similar, geologi-
cally, to the Wattle Gully lode.
Further exploration will be
necessary before the value of
the prospect can be assessed.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
QUEENSLAND
TO EDWARD PETER LEONARD for-
merly 0f.,.47 Browning Street West End
Brisbane in the State of Queensland but
whose present whereabouts are unknown.
- —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
LILLIAN MAY LEONARD has com-
menced an action against you (Action
No. 1267 of 1958) for the Dissolution
of Marriage on the grounds of your
desertion without just cause for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend this action you may enter an
appearance in the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Bris-
bane within Thirty days from the date
of publication hereof You may obtain
without charge a copy of the Writ of
Summons and Petition from COMINO &
MacGILLIVRAY, Solicitors, 286 Queen
Street, Brisbane. —E. LARAOY, Second
Deputy Registrar.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, April 13, 1959
A £2-million aluminium-
*** fabricating industry is to
be established in N.Z. by the
Northern Aluminium Co., Ltd.,
of England, a fully-owned sub-
sidiary of Aluminium, Ltd., of
Canada.
The plant will employ 250
skilled men and will have an
initial production-capacity of
5000 tons a year of aluminium-
sheet and -foil products and
2000 tons a year of aluminium
wire and cable for electrical
transmission-lines.
Among its products will be
aluminium-sheet for roofing,
siding and other uses in build-
ing construction, for vehicle-
bodies and for household
equipment.
The primary aluminium to
be used in the new plant will be
supplied from Canada.
As aluminium-sheet pro-
ducts and cables are at present
imported, the new industry
will provide a considerable
saving in foreign currency.
Overseas Interest
There has lately been evi-
dence of increasing interest in
N.Z. by overseas businessmen,
partly, no doubt, as a result
of import-control.
The overseas director of the
Federation of Netherlands
Industries, Dr. J. E. van
Hoogstraten, arrived in Wel-
lington a few days ago to
investigate possibilities for the
investment of Dutch capital
here.
“The position in Indonesia
has weakened, and that has
helped make us interested in
new fields,” he’ said. There was
quite a lot of Dutch capital
available for investment. New
Zealand was a rapidly grow-
ing country, and there should
be good opportunities here.
The large number of Dutch
immigrants had helped to
arouse interest.
By and large, successive
N.Z. Governments have not
given much encouragement to
overseas industries.
This was pointed out
recently by Sir James Fletcher,
chairman of Fletcher Holdings,
Tasman Pulp and Paper, and
1.C.1.N.Z.
He said N.Z. should look to
Australia, for an example,
where both the State and
Federal Governments were
offering were more favor-
ment to overseas industries and
financial houses.
“There needs to be a change
of heart as regards the present
policy which is laid down by
the Government and the
Reserve Bank, if larger sums of
capital are to be made avail-
able to N.Z. for industrial ex-
pansion,” he said. “A number
of overseas companies would
be only too willing to invest
in this country if the conditions
offering were more favor-
able.”
Risk Capital
“Sufficient development funds
to meet N.Z.’s demands would
be immediately available as
soon as the restrictions on the
introduction of capital from
abroad were lifted,” said Eric
Knight, deputy chairman of
Lombard Banking, recently.
Everything was ready for
capital to be poured into N.Z.
through Lombard subsidiaries,
he said.
Questioned about making
risk-capital available from new
enterprises, Mr. Knight said
it was possible that Lombard
Banking would eventually
move into “merchant banking.”
Operations did not have to be
limited to hire-purchase.
The intention was to finance
heavy equipment rather than
domestic appliances, and funds
were available for a consider-
able expansion of the interests
acquired in N.Z.
Steel From Ironsands
Two or three years of hard
work are needed before it will
be possible to say finally
whether an iron-and-steel
industry based on ironsands
could, in fact, be successful
in N.Z. This is the opinion of
the Minister of Industries and
Commerce, Mr. Holloway.
Investigations that would
have to be undertaken would
include the following:
(1) The best manufacturing-
process to be adopted if it is shown
that titanium-sands can be utilised.
(2) A survey of ironsands
deposits through the country which
would involve a good deal N of
exploratory drilling.
(3) A survey of coal resources
which also would necessitate much
drilling.
(4) Allied research, including
harbor facilities and methods of
mining and ironsands deposits.
Meantime, a departmental
report has been prepared to
assist the Government to
decide the best approach to
investigating work, estimated
to cost £250,000.
Until the scheme of invest-
igations is completed, it is un-
likely that either of the two
companies at present interested
in local iron-and-steel produc-
tion, the New Zealand Dev-
elopment Corporation and the
Fletcher organisation, will be
given the green light from the
Government to go ahead with
anything more than experi-
mental work.
Tighter Business
Evidence of a tightening-up
of business conditions in N.Z.
continues to mount.
All sales except those on
the instalment or lay-by plans
dropped heavily during the
last three months of 1958, the
Department of Statistics
reports.
A survey of consumer-credit
shows that in this period
charge-account sales decreased
by 15.3 per cent., cash sales
by 6.7 per cent., and hire-
purchase sales by 18 per cent.
Instalment buying during this
period increased by 12.1 per
cent, over the corresponding
period in 1957.
There were at- the moment
signs of a recession due solely
to the lack of confidence aris-
ing from the Government’s
policies, the Dominion Council
of the National Party con-
tended in a statement issued
after a two-day meeting in
Wellington.
The Building Industry
All was not well with the
building industry, said W. E.
Wagener, president of the
Council of the Building
Industry of Auckland, in his
annual report. There was a
feeling of uncertainty which
was bad for the country and
the industry.
“If Government spending
upon the various phases of
construction were curtailed to
any marked degree we would
be faced with chaotic condit-
ions,” he said.
The hotel industry in New
Zealand was in a state of
despair, the general manager of
Dominion Breweries Ltd., Mr.
C. F. Coutts, said last week.
Mr. Coutts said he doubted
whether any hotel was making
any sort of profit and some had
suffered substantial losses.
Unless the industry got some
assistance soon the position
would be chaotic in three
months.
The Public Accounts
The Government had a
surplus of £15,535,617 in the
Public Account for the
financial year ended March
31, 1959.
Announcing this result,
which he described as “satis-
factory,” the Minister of
Finance, Mr. Nordmeyer, said
the surplus was achieved only
after longer-term borrowing of
£27.4 million abroad. A
shorter-term credit of £16.5
million from a group of banks
in the United States was raised
for balance-of-payments pur-
poses and the proceeds in N.Z.
currency had therefore been
used to repay the Government
short-term debt.
The details of the position
of the Consolidated Fund, the
Social Security Fund and the
various other Government
accounts within the Public
Account will not be known
for some time yet because of
the very large number of
transactions which have yet to
be allocated to their appro-
priate headings.
Indications are that N.Z.
should only have to import
about 7,000,000 bushels of
wheat this year, compared with
almost 10,000,000 bushels in
the past season.
The general-manager of the
Wheat Committee, L. C. Dun-
shea, says it seems that the
South Island crop will provide
at least 6,000,000 bushels of
the 7,000,000 bushels required
for milling, feed and seed pur-
poses in that island. He
believed that the North Island
crop will provide about 500,000
bushels, so that the indications
are that about 7,000,000
bushels will have to come from
Australia to meet N.Z.’s>
requirements, which amount to
about 13,500,000 bushels.


In Writing
By LES FREELAND
Jim Cornish lay flat and
squinted along the scorch-
ing rails to where the line
dipped in a soft part of
the formation. Rising on an
elbow he threw a small stone
to the spot where the lift must
be made, and Stan the Pole
humped the jack over and
dumped it, looking back at
Jim for further directions.
Jim waved an o.k. after
stretching out and sighting the
rail again, and remained there
to watch the rail lifted. Stan
was a big man, young and
strong. Mick Doolan dug out
the ballast from around the
sleepers and Stan swung the
jack, driving it under the rail.
Inserting the handle he worked
it while he watched Jim, who
presently raised a hand to stop
him, took another squint and
patted the hot air as a signal
to lower a little. The Pole
released the catch and lowered
until Jim raised his hand again
and called “Hold it.”
Doolan and Bluey Hughes
began packing the sleepers on
either side of the lift, driving
the ballast under them with
heavy, pick-shaped beaters.
The big Pole rested on his jack-
handle watching them, while
Jim Cornish looked for the
next spot for a lift.
Jim was the ganger, and
according to the Railway
Department, boss of the four-
man gang. In fact, as he was
painfully aware, he was a
minority of one, and the
majority of three was led by
the big Pole. Jim was small,
slight and 40, wizened and
toughened by years of toil on
scorching rail-tracks.
Until the Pole joined them,
when old Higgins retired, he
had been the friendly leader
among four men with roughly
similar desires, mainly con-
cerned with getting along with
a minimum of trouble, and
maintaining their “length” in
fair order, but without too
much hard work.
Stan had succeeded in
changing all that. Jim was
now the ridiculed and despised
representative of rapacious
“heads,” who sought to curry
favor with them by sweating
those under him and chiselling
their overtime; a pannikin-
boss, to be treated with con-
tempt.
'T'hings had been different
with Judith, too, since
Stan arrived. Jim was no longer
the respected husband who
had taken her from the squalor
of a large quarter-caste family
to the affluence of a ganger’s
wife, with a steady income and
free rail-passes to legendary
cities.
Now he was the old and
ineffectual husband and barrier
between her and the good
times her youth entitled her to.
He got up when the line
showed a level surface. There
was another dip further ahead.
He consulted his Government
watch ; 10.30 ; there should be
time for another lift before
38-down was due.
He walked along the forma-
tion to where Stan was leaning
on his jack-handle. It was
hot, blue mirage hung like
small suspended lakes over the
plains, and occasional willy-
willies raised spirals of dust
and roly-poly into the thin
air. He hesitated over sug-
gesting another lift before
lunch, uncertain of the men’s
reaction, but finally spoke with
assumed assurance:
“Bring the jack along here,
Stan ; we’ll take out that hole
up there.”
Stan didn’t move. Instead,
he spat at the rail and watched
his spittle sizzle and dry, and
then remarked to Bluey, “’E
iss at it again. Dey should
give ’im a bloody vip.”
No one else spoke, and Jim
went on alone to sight the
rail ahead. Before lying down
he glanced back. . Bluey had
gone over to the trolley under
a fly beside the line and taken
the axe to split a sleeper for
boiling the billy. The other
two were still between the rails,
talking, and making the job
last until he had done so.
There was nothing Jim could
do about it. Two were on the
permanent staff ; he could sus-
pend them, but sacking them
was beyond his authority. A
suspension meant endless
correspondence, a full inquiry,
and a reputation that would
dog him where ever he went
in the railway.
He could sack the Pole, but
knew only too well the per-
sonal risk of doing so in an
isolated camp. There had been
that ganger further out who
had his head half cut-off with
a shovel, and beatings-up,
either on the job or on a visit
to town, were common. Stan
was big, strong and violent.
TTe took a shovel and dug
around a few sleepers
where he judged the lift would
be made, but the men went
over to the trolley, and he
could do nothing but follow
them. To his further annoy-
ance, they didn’t have the
decency to move out and give
the appearance of being on the
job when 38-down passed. If
an inspector happened to be
on the train Jim would have
to take the blame.
A s he sat with them, but not
of them, while they talked
over their lunch, the old prob-
lem gnawed a him. “What
could he do? Why should
they treat him in this unreason-
able manner?” His mind went
back over all that had hap-
pened since Stan came.
The Pole had been difficult
from the beginning. Trading
on his size, he picked the
lightest and easiest jobs, among
them the daily running to
inspect the length for safety,
on a tricycle. Finally Jim had
stopped this, quoting the rules
covering the responsibilties of
temporary employees.
Stan had taken it badly, and
the others had been sarcastic
about Jim’s “using the book.”
From that day on the Pole
had been his enemy and the
leader of a passive resistance
he had no means of com-
bating.
In spite of the early knock-
off for lunch it was long after
starting-time before Jim mus-
tered the nerve to suggest work.
It was still very hot and they
grumbled as he led them out
to the job, and within two
hours Stan wandered over to
the trolley and started fiddling
with the motor. The other
two soon followed him and
after a while they put it on
the rails, started the motor and
sat, obviously waiting for him.
The power of their combined
suggestion was more than he
could resist, and cursing him-
self for his weakness he joined
them, and they headed for
home.
Jim didn’t see Judith when he
entered the dilapidated three-
roomed cottage, “ganger’s
accommodation,” but an over-
powering smell of perfume
reached him from the bed-
room. Presently she came out,
and he eyed her with surprised
suspicion.
Dressed to go out, she was
heavily made-up. There was
little to indicate her mixed
blood, and she was taller and
heavier than he was, as well
as 20 years younger.
She stood in front of him
defiantly, challenging criticism,
her breasts lifted high and
divided by a brassiere from
the mail-order firm, her small
waist emphasised by the wide
belt cinched tightly about it.
Her tell-tale spindly legs were
flattered by the high spike-
heels of her shoes ; the pointed
toes denied the broad feet of
an unshod childhood. Made-
up eyes smouldered above a
widely-painted mouth, large,
gold gipsy rings dangled from
OLD WINDS
The wind from its station in the south
Blows constantly—the South-east Trades.
But, stubbornly, the propeller-blades
Slog the tramp-schedule wrong-end-about:
North, or south, a port with freight,
No matter if the Trade Wind’s late.
A wind has blown its purpose out,
As oil is “in,” and sail is “out.”
And God’s convenience of winds
Ends with a curse in skippers’ minds
Who slog the Trades wrong-end-about,
When cargoes call not north, but south ;
Not west, but east. Even old winds
End with their casualties among old friends.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
ears hidden in dark, curly hair.
He could feel the drug of her
sex across the small room.
“I’m going out.”
He waited silently for more
information—too weak to
protest. Embarrassed by his
silence, already on the defen-
sive, she became aggressive.
“Well What’s wrong with
you? Won’t do you no ’arm
to cook your own tea, will it?”
He grunted: “Won’t be the
first time, like, will it?”
“I Want THAT one!”
“Nor the last, neither. Think
I’m going to stay home night
after night with a no-hoper
like you?”
He said nothing—there did
not seem any point in saying
anything. His silence fed her
anger.
“All right! Seeing you
haven’t got the guts to ask,
I’ll tell you. I’m going out
with Stan —to town, catching
the 48-down.”
She needn’t have told him ;
he already knew. He turned
and made for the shower-room
and she returned to her mirror
to prink and preen until Stan's
whistle called her.
T etting the tepid water flow
over his dehydrated body,
he felt frustration adding to
his shame and the dull, aching
rage of his hate. He recalled
Judith as he had first seen her,
standing barefoot in the goat-
yard near the iron-and-hessian
humpy that served as home
for her drunken, white father,
her half-caste mother and 10
children of varied sex and pig-
mentation, of whom she was
the oldest.
Her hair was unkempt, the
dress she wore was old and
dirty, but her skin was light-
ivory, her young breasts were
full, and she radiated vitality
and youth. Tired of living
alone in bachelor camps, and
feeling the need of a woman’s
care and attention in a land
of few women, he had been
easy game. Ignorant and half-
illiterate, knowing nothing
beyond the arid plains on
which she was reared, she had
met him more than half-way.
It was a long time before he
realised he had only been a
means of escape.
The city honeymoon had un-
settled her, and somehow she
had discovered her power to
attract men. But she had
settled-down after a while,
seemed fond of him, and tried
to follow his instructions about
cleanliness and decent feeding.
It had amused and flattered
him, the way she used to doll-
up every evening, with a clean
dress, lipstick and high-heeled
shoes, to welcome him home
from work. But it hadn’t
lasted long; she soon slipped
back to her old habits of slat-
ternly untidiness, and he came
to know that he had neither
the youth nor personality to
hold her, still less the power
to satisfy her.
When Stan arrived she had
resumed the habit of dolling-
up, and usually met them at
the shed as they came in. But
her reform had been limited
to her person; the cottage
grew dirtier, and most of his
meals came out of tins.
He had left the shower when
he heard Stan’s whistle and
she brushed past him in a
smother- of perfume. He fol-
lowed her out to the veranda
and watched her go down the
steps to Stan. Stan looked
impressively handsome, his
fair hair long above his slightly
Slavonic features, his tanned
olive skin smooth and clean ;
great muscles bulged visibly
under a nylon shirt.
She joined him. They
started up the track to the
siding, and she turned and
called back, “See you when
you’re better, fettler.”
Then she turned away,
giggling at her weak wit and
grabbing Stan’s arm to steady
her heels over the rough path.
He heard the train-whistle
and began ruefully looking for
food. There were tins of
meat and vegetables, but the
refrigerator-lamp had gone
out; the cooked meat stank,
and the butter was oil. A pile
of dirty dishes littered the
table.
TIE fished a bottle of what the
grocer listed as “sundries”
from its hiding-place, half-
filled a tumbler, and drank it
neat. The overproof spirit
choked him, but he felt better
for it and ate a cold tin of
steak-and-onions. Leaving the
’fridge and dirty dishes as they
were, he poured out another
nobbier of “sundries” and
walked to the bedroom.
There was a depression in
the half-made bed where
Judith had lain half the day,
and a paper-covered romance
lay on the crumpled pillow.
Disorder was usual and what
he expected, but something
was missing—ah, that was it!
No soiled lingerie littered the
room. He walked to the ward-
robe and opened' the door.
Every decent dress she owned
hung neatly on the hangers, all
pressed and clean.
He went over to the powder-
dusted dressing-table-cw/n-
-bureau, and pulled open a
drawer. There, all laundered
and folded, were the missing
clothes. Beside them was a
handbag. He snapped it open
and found ten crisp five-pound
notes, which must have been
the full balance of their bank
account. There were also a
railway timetable and a hotel
folder advertising accommoda-
tion, and the few bits of
genuine jewellery he had given
her.
It was all quite clear, and
it didn’t surprise him. It was
payday tomorrow ; Stan would
be treated to all but his
holiday-pay and the small
amount usually kept in hand.
No ; he wasn’t surprised, but
the deep, futile rage, the feel-
ing of self-despising frustra-
tion, was intolerable.
He went back to the kitchen
and got the bottle of
“sundries.” As he drank, his
blood began to circulate with
the vigor of synthetic youth.
Hate remained, but futility
faded, and confidence returned
to him. He would be master
in his own home, and on the
job, too. No woman was going
to walk out on him with a
New Australian. As the liquor
o Continued on page 49)


Westminster or Canberra—lt's Much the Same
M.P.s and Their Problems
When a branch of the Liberal
party in the Macarthur elec-
torate threatened to oppose the
nomination of the sitting mem-
ber, Jeff Bate, at the next election if he
voted in favor of the Richardson Com-
mittee’s recommendations on Federal
members’ salaries, Bate replied that he
intended to vote for the increases and
that the threats of the branch provided
“an excellent example of the hazards
that make a Parliamentary future so
uncertain.”
Bate came out of the encounter with
dignity, but his reply lacked the sting
contained in a letter sent by a less-
dignified English M.P. to his constituents
in reply to their demand that he should
oppose the Budget of 1714. Like Bate,
Antony Henry had his own views on
how he should vote, but for different
reasons. He addressed his electors
thus: —
Gentlemen: I have received your letter
about the excise, and I am surprised at your
insolence at writing to me at all. You
know, and I know, that 1 bought this con-
stituency. You know, and I know, that
1 am now determined to sell it, and you
know what you think I don’t know that
you are now looking out for another buyer,
and I know, what you certainly don’t know,
that 1 have now found another constituency
to buy.
About what you said about the excise:
may God’s cuise light upon you all, and
may it make your homes as open and as
free to the excise officers as your wives
and daughters have always been to me
while I have represented your rascally
constituency.
The letter is quoted in Honourable Mem-
bers, by Peter G. Richards (Faber and
Faber), subtitled “A Study of the British
Backbencher,” and is contained in a
chapter discussing the relationships be-
tween a member and his constituents.
It was written at a time when the elec-
toral system was notoriously corrupt and
the franchise limited, but the principle
it implied—the freedom of the member
to vote according to his conscience (if
any) and not at the dictation of his
constituents was upheld 60 years later,
when the system was still unchanged, by
a great Parliamentarian, Edmund Burke.
Not a Mere Delegate
TJurke told the electors of Bristol that
an elected member must use his own
judgment in voting in the Commons;
he was not a mere delegate of those who
sent him there. Burke held that a mem-
ber should at all times keep in close
touch with his constituents and should
subordinate his own interests to theirs:
But his own unbiased opinion, his mature
judgment, his enlightened conscience, he
ought not to sacrifice to you, to any man,
to any set of men living... .Your represen-
tative owes you not his industry only, but
his judgment; and he betrays, instead of
serving, you if he sacrifices it to your
opinion.
One-hundred-and-fifty years later, and
under conditions of almost complete
adult suffrage, Lord Bryce was still
opposing, in Modern Democracies (1921),
the idea that members should be the
delegates of their constituents. Such a
concept, he argued, would mean that
men of independent outlook would no
longer enter Parliament, the value of
Parliamentary debate would be dimi-
nished, the power of local party com-
mittees would be increased, as would the
power of Cabinet.
It can be argued on the evidence of
the Federal salaries debate that although
on this issue members are far from
as delegates of their constituents,
the four things Bryce feared have already
happened here. Only a handful of mem-
bers have had the temerity to stand
against the party executive and vote
according to their conscience; the
debates on the bills, though interesting
in demonstrating that good fortune as
well as adversity can make strange bed-
fellows, have been conducted in the
knowledge that the vote would be a
foregone conclusion ; the power of local
committees has not been increased but
the power of caucus and party - room
parleys has been demonstrated ; and the
power of Cabinet, which approved the
Richardson report before the storm burst
and later made only minor alterations
to its proposals, has certainly been in no
way diminished.
Party Discipline
TDryce held that a member should not
act contrary to promises made on
the election-platform, but that on issues
on which no pledge had been given, or
which had arisen since his election, he
should be free to vote as he thought fit.
In Australia this would certainly absolve
Jeff Bate (and all other members) from
taking any notice of the opinion of the
electorate on the Richardson report.
Higher pay for M.P.s was not mentioned
on the election-platform of any party.
However, as Peter Richards points out
in Honourable Members, the tighter
discipline of party loyalties has far more
effect on the behavior of a member than
the opinion of his electorate. Voters
nowadays more often support a party
than a candidate. “The strictures of
Burke on those who seek to impose their
will on members would fall, in our
century, not upon voters, but upon party
Whips.”
Richards claims that the greatest crime
a Commons M.P. can commit in the
eyes of his constituency association is
to appear to have some sympathy for
the views of his political opponents. He
quotes the experience of Labor-member
S. Evans and Conservative-member N.
Nicolson at the time of the Suez crisis.
Evans refused to denounce military
action against Egypt; Nicolson refused
to support it. Both were condemned by
their electoral committees, Evans being
called upon to resign and Nicolson being
refused endorsement for the next election.
On the other hand, where the defiance
is on an issue that does not arouse
fierce passions, criticism in the consti-
tuency is tempered by admiration for
qualities of courage and independence.
Only a minority of members who kick
over the traces are disowned or replaced
by their local association —provided they
remain in the party. The position of
the member who resigns or is expelled
from the party is very different. There
are no Independent members in the Com-
mons today.
Unsuccessful Rebels
TThis position is very similar in Aus-
tralia. Minor departures from the
party-line are usually tolerated and often
applauded by the electorate, but the ex-
party-man has little chance of election.
Clive Evatt, at last month’s N.S.W.
election, was the latest to have this
brought home to him, but there have
been plenty other examples. Senator
Condon Byrne, standing as a Q.L.P.
candidate last November, found the
Labor machine too strong for him ; so
did the Victorian M.H.R.s who stood
on the Anti-Communist Labor ticket in
1955. Earlier, Doris Blackburn and Jack
Lang managed to hold seats as Indepen-
dent Labor members, but in each case
for only one term. As a Country-party
candidate Charles Russell won Maranoa
by a big majority in 1949, but was
unable to hold it when he lost the party
endorsement two years later.
Apparently British M.P.s, like their
opposite-numbers in Australia, are ex-
pected by their constituents to be always
on call to attend to all manner of personal
problems, though it is doubtful whether
they are required to give to this task
the amount of time envisaged in the
Richardson report. It is frankly admitted
that much of this work (and expense)
is for the purpose of nursing the elec-
torate.
In Dire Straits
JVroNE of the evidence given to the
Richardson Committee has been
published. It obviously convinced the
committee that some members are in
dire straits, but it is unlikely that any of
it was as poignant as that presented to
a House of Commons select committee.
This told of M.P.s having to refuse
invitations to public functions, presum-
ably because they literally had nothing
to wear ; of members having to put their
wives out to work to supplement the
family income; and of members who
couldn’t afford meals in the dining-room
of the House of Commons but “use only
the tea-room.” And it has surely never
been urged on behalf of Federal Labor
members, as it was in 1937 of their
British colleagues, that they are subject
to fainting-attacks “partially caused by
undernourishment.”


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
At the Valley
In any season there are far
more moderate gallopers than
good ones, and at this time of
the year, with the best horses
spelling, racing clubs receive all
the entries they can handle.
The Moonee Valley club had to
extend its programme last
Saturday to nine events and at
Pakenham, 30 miles outside the
city, there were another nine
races.
At the Valley no horse was
more impressive than the four-
year-old MacArthur gelding
Mac. In last year’s Melbourne
Cup he surprised most watchers
with his strong finish into fifth
place. At his start before the
big race he had won the Gee-
long Cup. This time up he won
a Welter at Mornington late
last month, and then on Satur-
day came from seventh into the
short straight to snatch the
money in the Airport Welter
(second division). The geld-
ing’s immediate target is the
two-miles Adelaide Cup on
May 13. He will be much more
at home over that distance
than the mile of Saturday’s
event. He is a very promising
galloper, this fellow, and should
win the Adelaide race.
Drawn anywhere near the
rails in the first heat of the
Airport, the Moondust mare
Scenic Star would have been
first-fancy. A last-start winner
at Randwick, she was a class
above the opposition, but she
drew 16 marble, extreme out-
side of the field and the
Valley mile is hard to win from
wide out. She drifted to as
much as 10 to 1, but, well
handled by Riverina apprentice
Roy Higgins, she overcame the
draw in the first furlong, and
thereafter was untroubled to
win as she liked. After her
Randwick win, owner C. H.
Buchanan tried unsuccessfully
to arrange a mating with Star
Kingdom. He now intends to
race her for another year.
With divisions, there were
two races for two-year-old
fillies at the Valley and two for
the young colts and geldings.
Form worked out pretty
well in all four events.
Sweet Fizz, who had won at
Werribee and been placed at
the Valley at her two previous
starts, easily won the first
Royal Park Handicap. Owner
Geoff Armstrong bred the
winner, who is by Nullabor
from former smart mare Whiz-
beau. The dam died soon after
giving birth to Sweet Fizz, but
the filly’s good form has been
a consolation to Armstrong.
John Wren, who is in luck—he
races Sydney Cup winner On
Line —won the second heat of
the Royal Park with Color
Glow. First-up from a spell,
Color Glow, who is by Jambo
from White Flag, had run
second to Chaise in the Blood-
horse Breeders’ Plate, but
although Chaise was in Satur-
day’s field, Color Glow went
out first-choice and had no
trouble in avenging her defeat.
“On my left—Gerald Ernest St. Clair. On my right —
Raymond Basil LillyWell-Smythe
The winner has been sparingly
raced, and will now again be
turned-out. Trainer Roy Shaw
thinks she might be more than
useful in the spring.
Grandor, winner of the first
division of the Annandale
Handicap for two-year-old
colts and geldings, is raced on
lease by the chairman of the
M.V.R.C., Major-General Sir
Samuel Burston, in partnership
with H. W. Parbury. Actually
the colt, who is by Meadow
Mist from Adrianna and who
has the typical grey coat of his
sire, is owned by his trainer,
Fred Hoysted. There was a
double coincidence attached to
Meadowing’s third in this event.
Like the winner, he is by
Meadow Mist, and he is raced
by the V.R.C. chairman, Sir
Chester Manifold, who owns
Misting.
• • •' •
Winner of the second heat
of the Annandale, Supreme
Courage, has this time up won
at all his three starts —at Cran-
bourne, Albury and now the
Valley. A gelding by Wood-
ruffe from Supreme Power, he
started equal-favorite, and there
should be cream for all this
week at the Werribee dairyfarm
of owners B. and G. Ryan.
Mention was made here a
couple of weeks ago of
the bad luck which dogged
Smokey Jane before she broke
through for a win at Caulfield.
Racing luck—good or bad—
usually runs in patches, and her
streak of good fortune stuck
to the Smokey Eyes filly when
she made it two in a row with
a win in the Valley’s Suburban
Handicap, a 10-furlongs event
for three-:year-old fillies. To
further strengthen the conten-
tion that good or bad luck
comes in patches, Smokey Jane
won by an inch or two from
Heart’s Content —and that filly
has been a narrow second at
three of her last four starts.
• • • •
It’s a bit early to be looking
for a National winner, and the
moderate lot in the Ardconnell
Hurdle at the Valley was no
place to be looking, anyway.
The race went to the aged
Angus gelding Top Rail. If
there was a National winner
in the Ardconnell, it could be
second placegetter Haydon
Day, who came home well, and
who badly needed the run.
* * •
At Canterbury
Mystic Star followed Mighty
Kingdom into the ring at the
Randwick yearling-sales at
Easter, 1957. Both realised
5000gns. Mighty Kingdom has
won races, but it was not until
last Saturday at Canterbury
Park that Mystic Star won his
first race, the Third Ashbury
Stakes, worth £7Bl, and he
started at brief odds. The colt
was knocked-down to the bid
of Randwick trainer M.
McCarten, who was acting for
a charitable organisation which
raffled the youngster, and then
the colt was sold to present
ownership, and McCarten is
training him. Mystic Star
hasn’t done much racing, but
his second to Winchester in a
similar race at Canterbury
last month accounted for the
starting-odds of 10 to 9.
Mystic Star's dam, Magic
Ring, by' Ringmaster (imp.)
from Damaris by Limond
(imp.), has thrown several
winners. She is related to
Nizam’s Ring, winner of the
V.R.C. Oaks.
Hotelkeeper Tom Clune and
jeweller J. H. Wood, who
have had a long association
in racing, paid 1750gns. for
Native Land as a yearling at
the Randwick auction three
years ago, but they, too, had
to wait until last Saturday for
the gelding’s first success—in
the Canterbury Park Carnpsie
Stakes. Native Land won
well, coming from the rear of
the field to run the 11 furlongs
65yds. in course-record time,
2.24.9, previous best being
2.25, run by Morvi’s Pride in
December, 1957. Trained at
Rosebery by George Hanna,
the winner is by Delville Wood
(imp.) from the Constant Son
(imp.) mare Homeland.
Flash Gem, who beat
Turkestan in the Randwick
Centenary Plate, again de-
feated that often-promising
galloper in last Saturday’s
Canterbury Park Handicap.
There was only a short head
in it, and had Turkestan kept
a little closer to the rails Flash
Gem would not have got
through. Turkestan apparently
tired a little in the final half-
furlong. For a horse who had
already won so many races,
including two Wagga Cups
and a Newcastle Cup, Flash
Gem was nicely placed in the
weights, and should soon win
again.
Trainer L. J. O’Sullivan had


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
punters guessing when he
started both his top sprinters,
Gay Port and New Spec, in the
Canterbury Flying. In the pre-
vious race T. J. Smith started
no fewer than five two-year-
olds, and the stable-elect, Luna
Park, had an easy win. How-
ever, both the O’Sullivan pair
failed, though New Spec made
a gallant effort. He was the
pacemaker, and was beaten
into third place in a tight finish
by Diamond Vista and New
Farm. In other parts of the
world stablemates are
bracketed on the tote, a system
which should be adopted here.
Diamond Vista had not started
since last October, but trainer
Reg Cook had him nicely
ready for a first-up win.
R. Selkrig, who also won on
Luna Park and on Gay Coin,
pushed Diamond Vista through
a narrow opening between New
Spec and New Farm to win
in the final 50yds. Gay Port,
slow from the starting-gates,
was never a hope.
Man of Iron rejoined the
winning-list in the Welter. A
top winner at two-years, when
he won, among other races,
both the A.J.C. and Q.T.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes, he had
lost form this time up. Snow
Dust, a close second at
33 to 1, was one of J. Den-
ham’s three starters in the race.
Of his other two, Half Hennesy
and Lord Ray, the former was
making up ground over the
final furlong or so. Snow
Dust, a smart winner in
sprints, should soon land the
money.
Australia n-b red sire
Achilles is getting his share of
winners, his list including
Troy, Grecian Lustre, Trim
Heels, Just Us and Grecian
Vale. The last-named, a four-
year-old from La Vallee, who
hasn’t done much racing, won
his third race in smart fashion,
the First Ashbury Stakes. He
came with a Tate run to win
in close to race-record time.
Runner-up Jabin was backed
from 14’s to 11 to 2, and almost
landed the plunge. Outsider
Squanderline, having her first
run since mid-December, tried
to lead all the way and was
a close third. Her first win
seems close.
• • • •
Gay Coin, who did his early
racing in far-western and
north-western districts of
N.S.W., with wins at Bourke,
Brewarrina and Walgett, has
won twice and been twice
second in four starts since
coming to Sydney, one of his
seconds being in the A.J.C.
Challenge Stakes to Huntly.
He now goes to open company,
but that shouldn’t stop him.
* * *
“Post”: A.J.C. chairman
Potter’s frank admission that
the club has been catering
too generously for the wrong
horses —i.e., Graduation and
Encourage types probably
explains why attendances, at
Randwick especially, have
slumped in the past decade.
Before the rot set in, Randwick
enjoyed a considerable clientele
who went to headquarters
exclusively and for the express
purpose of watching the
better-class gallopers. Of late
years too many races for
poorer prads have tended to
make programmes at even the
best meetings boring for these
racegoers, and they’re staying
away in larger numbers each
year. Only quality fields (small
or large) attract the connois-
seurs —the addicts, of course,
would attend races for cart-
horses held on wet Sundays
and Good Friday provided
they could bet on them.
* * *
“P. O. M. C.”: Melbourne
racebooks, bigger, better and
brighter than Sydney’s and
stiff-covered as well, also con-,
tain the complete stewards’
report for the previous meet-
ing on the track where the
current day’s racing is being
held. To punters taking the
trouble to read it, this report
often discovers an apparent
reversal of form before it
happens ; and Sydney clubs
might well take this leaf out
of the Melbourne book and
insert it in their own. For
instance, regarding Conclusive
when he was a hooted 10-to-l
winner at Caulfield early this
year, the stewards said:
“R. Scarlett, rider of Sir
Merion, was severely repri-
manded for permitting his
mount to cross Conclusive too
sharply approaching the six-
furlongs post”; and “Shortly
after this, Great Singer had
to ease off the heels of Con-
clusive.” To finish close-up
after twice suffering inter-
ference should have been good
enough form to follow next
time.
* * *
The Trots
Ending a run of outs in big
races, Sydney pacer Fettle on
Friday night won the £5OOO
Lord Mayor’s Cup from
champion Enzedder Caduceus
and Westralian Kiwi Dillon.
Favorite at 5 to 4, Fettle
started from the 12yds.-mark
and Caduceus from 36yds.
Fifth passing the winning-
post the first time, Fettle
improved to be third, about
two lengths behind the pace-
maker, First Kiss, with half-
a-mile to go. Making the
home-turn the tiring First Kiss
shared the lead with Fettle,
with the brilliant Caduceus
about four, lengths away.
Fettle dashed clear on straight-
ening-up. Caduceus came on
the outside halfway down the
straight, but Fettle was hold-
ing his challenge over the last
bit, to win by a half-length.
Kiwi Dillon was three lengths
further back.
Fettle paced the 13 furlongs
and 98 yards in 3min.
36fsec., returning a mile-rate
of 2.9 on the rain-affected track.
The win brought his Harold
Park record to 14 wins, five
seconds and two thirds from
23 starts, and his stake-earn-
ings have now reached £19,500.
He will run in the Invitation
£lOOO at Harold Park on
Friday next before being
spelled.
Caduceus went close to win-
ning his third Lord Mayor’s
Cup.
* * *
The Boats
Rowed this year on the
Swan River, the 1959 King's
Cup was won by N.S.W., with
Victoria second and W.A. third.
Time for the two-miles, 15min.
34sec. N.S.W.’s last win was in
1951. Victoria had won in the last
three years.
The lightweight fours went to
W.A., with N.S.W. second.
Mosman (Sydney) sculler Bill
Hatfield easily won the President’s
Cup, the Australian sculling title,
with Squires (Tas.) and Hubbard
(W.A.), who have both consistently
filled the places in recent years,
second ' and third respectively.
N.S.W. has won the last four
President’s Cups—in 1956 and 1957
by Stuart Mackenzie, now overseas,
and in 1958 by Steve Roll.
Sydney’s G.P.S. Head of the
River, rowed on the Nepean, was
won very easily by Sydney High,
with St. Joseph’s second, and Shore
a close third. Time was 7min.
41Jsec., one of the fastest times
recorded.
Melbourne’s Head of the River,
rowed on the Barwon, was won by
Geelong College, with Melbourne
Grammar three-quarters of a length
back, second. Time, 4min. 57fsec.
Geelong College was runner-up to
Melbourne Grammar last year, but
had won the event in the three
preceding years.
Adelaide’s Head of the River was
won by St. Peter’s College from
Scotch, in time close to the record,
while Perth’s was won by Christ
Church Grammar from Aquinas
College. (Brisbane’s Head of the
River, decided on Milton Reach a
couple of weeks ago, was won for
the second time in succession by
Southport, Gregory Terrace both
times being runners-up.)
Peter Waddington stroked
N.S.W.’s King’s Cup eight to vic-
tory while younger brother David
stroked Shore into third place in
the Sydney G.P.S. Head of the
River. Peter Waddington rowed in
the Shore eight in the 1952 Head of
the River.
* * •
Other Sports
Upset of Saturday’s first
round of the V.F.L. was the
thrashing at home in a fiery
game suffered by last year’s
premiers Collingwood at the
hands of South, 14.17-7.18 ; the
Swans were fast and vigorous,
and had much better team-
work. Melbourne ran away in
the last quarter to beat Rich-
mond 16.21-10.10; at three-
quarter-time the Demons had
only a two - point lead,
10.11-10.9. In the last quarter
they swung star ruckman-
rover Barassi back into
the ruck from his post as spear-
head, though he had shone
there ; but the move back made
all the difference to,'the result.
In another “away” win
North clawed Geelong, 12.14-
8.15. In the three “home” wins
Carlton had just an edge on
Essendon in a fast, open game
13.20-11.18 ; Fitzroy beat Haw-
thorn in a high-scoring, high-
marking, hard-bumping game
19.17-17.18 ; and St. Kilda was
too fast for Footscray
9.15-6.13.
* * *
Manly, alone unbeaten after
three rounds, defeated North
8-0 in Sydney Rugby Union’s
match of the day on Saturday.
Manly’s points, all scored in
the first half, were chalked-up
by winger Roberts (fry, goal
and penalty-goal). St. George
came from 11-18 behind at
half-time to beat University,
22-18 ; Randwick just held-off
Gordon 9-6 in a hard-fought
game ; Eastwood beat Drum-
moyne 14-11 in a rough game ;
and Parramatta amazed East
(and itself) by winning 16-8.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WARES —In Divorce.
TO EMILY CAROLINE ERHODA
MORRISS late of Cootamundra. —TAKE
NOTICE that FREDERICK JOHN
MORRISS has Wed a Petition for
Divorce No. 80 of 195.9 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is ask-
ing for the exercise of the Gourt’s dis-
cretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 24th day of June 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from GEOFFREY SEE
GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUG H A N,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM DOUGLAS. REID of
parts unknown Shop Assistant. —TAK E
NOTICE that MIRIAM WALKER REID
has filqd Petition for Divorce No. 3581
of 1958 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 25th
June 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CQNNAH
STEED & FIRTH, Solicitors, 10
O’Connell Street, Syd n e y.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS RAYMOND HONEY-
SETT late of 20 Persic Street Belfield. —
TAKE NOTICE that FRANCES MELBA
HONEYSETT has tiled a Petition for
Divorce N0.'2751 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by 17th June 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from J. W.
BEGG, BLACKMORE & CO., Solicitors,
of 10 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEIV
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO PATRICK JOSEPH YOUNG-
TAKE NOTICE that YALMA BETTY
YOUNG has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2764 of 1958 on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
19th June 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from .J. BRUCE
FERGUSON, Solicitor, of 84 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES- —lx Divorce.
TO JEAN MARIE STEEP late of 346
Arden Street, Coogee.—TAKE NOTICE
that VINCENT RODERICK STEEP has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3036 of
1958 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by' the 25th
June 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from P. N.
ROACH, Solicitor, of 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar,
efcOV®'? 0
St. George always had New-
town’s measure in Sydney
Rugby League’s match of the
day on Saturday, winning 20-3.
North, like St. George,
remained unbeaten, downing
Balmain 18-10; West, with
Australian World Cup skipper
Poole playing well in his first
game with the club, was too
good for Manly, 24-13 ; Parra-
matta surprised South Sydney
10-5 —’Matta won in both
League and Union on Satur-
day, a very rare thing—and,
on Sunday, East also surprised
Canterbury 18-9.
* * *
There were two scoreless
draws in Saturday’s Federation
Soccer round in Sydney —-
Bankstown, which, admittedly
then below strength, had been
thrashed 11-0 by Prague the
previous round, surprised by
holding Hakoah, and neither
Balgownie nor Gladesville
could get through. It was
Gladesville’s second scoreless
match in succession. Unbeaten
Prague remains on top of the
table, accounting, though a
.man short practically all
through, for Sydney Austral
3-1 ; Corrimal beat Apia 3-2 ;
Auburn beat Budapest by the
odd goal in nine ; Canterbury
defeated North Side 2-1 ; and
Granville downed Concord
3-1. In a trial game at Sydney’s
Athletic Field on Sunday,
designed to pick the Federation
squad for the coming inter-
national games, the Federation
and “The Rest” played a 2-all
draw.
“Centre-half”: Two over-
seas Soccer teams are to tour
Australia this season
Scottish club Hearts of Mid-
lothian and Deporti vo
Saprissa, from Costa Rica.
Having more than one touring
club in a season is not always
a sound idea—in 1957, when
three overseas clubs toured
(F.K. .Austria, Hungarian club
Ferencvaros and Hong Kong),
interest in the “Tests” against
them sapped badly and the
Australian Association suffered
a heavy financial loss. Inci-
dentally, Australia should be
able to put far stronger teams
in the field this year, quite a
few brilliant overseas players
having settled here and with
the N.S.W. Federation’s players
now available for selection.
* * *
“Selja”: On Saturday, June
13, Sydney is to see two
Rugby Tests on adjoining ovals
—Australia v. the British Isles
at the Sportsground (Union)
and Australia v. N.Z. at the
S.C.G. (League). Not a
sensible or businesslike pro-
position. Obviously it ought
to have been arranged between
the two codes for one Test to
be played on the Monday,
Queen’s Birthday ; but neither
would switch. Next-best thing
would have been for the
starting-times of the two Tests
to be “staggered.” The Union
accordingly suggested the
League Test to start at 2 p.m.
instead of 2.30, while the
Union Test would begin at
3.30 ; which seems reasonable
and fair enough. But the
League’s answer to that was
a raspberry.
* * *
“Veryl”: Two sets of
brothers are playing for Rand-
wick (Sydney) Rugby Union
club this year. The Greens’
skipper is lock-forward Bob
Outterside, who as a 19-year-
older went to South Africa
with the 1953 Wallabies ;
brother Bill is in the front row.
Fullback Ken Thornett, who
played in some representative
games last year, has brother
Dick in front of him in the
forwards. A third brother of
the Thornetts, Wallaby break-
away John, plays with Norths.
* * *
“Wilkie”: When Neil
Hawke, the Port Adelaide goal-
sneak, transferred to W.A.
after the 1957 season he said
his main reason was to further
his cricket-prospects. Then,
when East Perth Football
Club applied for a clearance
for him there were dark
rumors that football was his
main interest. He certainly
played well as a forward for
East Perth, but it is as a
cricketer that he has made his
greatest mark. In the final
of the first grade he took
4-24 and scored 189, thus
helping North Perth win the
game and setting himself as
one of the best all-rounders in
the West. With his figures for
the season 606 runs at an
average of 67.3 and 46 wickets
at 11.2, he should be a moral
for Sheffield Shield next
season.
“S.”: Proposal last year for
a - kicking contest with a
Rugby ball between 17st. N.Z.
rep. Soccer goalkeeper Kevin
Hough and 16st. All Black full-
back Don Clarke fell through.
Would have been worth seeing.
Hough, former Australian rep.
goalkeeper, who went to N.Z.
with the 1948 Australian Soccer
team, has the strongest kick-
off in N.Z. Soccer; Clarke’s
mighty boot with a punt, place-
or drop-kick is as well known
in Australian Rugby quarters
as it is in N.Z. A Rugby
ball was suggested because
Hough has also played Rugby
of good standard. Incidentally,
both giants narrowly missed
selection in the 1958 N.Z.
cricket-team to England ; they
are also easily the two biggest
hitters in the country. Hough
played in the two cricket Tests
against England this year, and
is now back in Sydney with
Gladesville Soccer-club.
* * *
“Cremor”: The two best
cricket boners of the season
came from a sports-writer who
called Hugh Trumble a left-
hand bowler and Tom Mc-
Kibbin an off-break trundler.
Long Hughie, over 6ft., was a
world-beater and the sole
player to take two hat-tricks
in England-v.-Australia Tests.
He devoted his whole life
to cricket, being secretary of
Melbourne C.C. for many
years. Tom Me. was pur
famous leg-break bowler of
over half-a-century ago, and
perhaps bowled a bigger break
than any of them. After the
1896 tour Jim Kelly (“Aunt
Sally”) said Tom broke one
ball which, pitched in the
blockhole, did not pass the
wicket; it broke almost at right
angles in the direction of
point. On this tour McKibbin
headed the bowling with 101
wickets at 14, while Trumble
was second with 148 at 15.
* * *
At Sydney Stadium a week
after his defeat of George
Barnes, African welter Joe
N’Gidi stopped in the ninth
round American negro George
Berry, a built-up lightweight.
It was a dull, lifeless scrap,
calling to mind a similarly
dismal bout in Sydney in
February between American
middleweights Jimmy Martinez
and Willie Vaughn, won by the
former. There was a poor
attendance at each of these
poor fights. Which raises the
point as to whether it is good
policy for “importations” to
be matched against each other
—on the other hand, though
it wasn’t the same thing, of
course, it might be argued that
one of the greatest fights ever
seen at Rushcutter Bay was
between two importations,
Johnson and Burns, on Boxing
Day, 1908.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TIBET
"Dress comment on the anti-
A Chinese uprising in Tibet:
London “Observer ” ; “When
the Chinese Communist forces
occupied Tibet in 1950 they
recognised the right of the
Tibetan people to exercise
‘national regional autonomy’
and promised to maintain the
existing political and religious
structure and the authority of
the Dalai Lama. The Tibetan
people are rebelling because
that promise has not been
kept.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail” : “But
why Tibet? Many people must
have wondered what the
Chinese, after all these years,
are doing on this bleak, barren
rooftop.
“The first answer is that
Tibet was left in mid-air by
the withdrawal of British
power. For nearly 50 years the
country, though not occupied
by us, was under our protec-
tion. This fell away when we
left India in 1947. A vacuum
was thereby created, and
another Power has moved in.
It is as simple as that.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post” : “What is
the motive underlying Chinese
haste and ruthlessness in Tibet?
It is certainly not fear of
attack. Mr. Nehru now, as for
years past, is contorting him-
self into very undignified atti-
tudes in order to assure Peking
of his friendliness and his
eagerness to co-operate. The
Chinese want Tibet as a mili-
tary base, not for defence but
for aggression— not tomorrow
or next week maybe, but in
what is to them the forseeable
future.
“The phrase, ‘the roof of
the world’ is not a meaning-
less piece of jargon. If you
sit on the rooftop, with a
sizeable supply of inter-conti-
nental ballistic missiles con-
veniently to hand, you are
likely—so the Chinese not un-
reasonably believe —to begin
any politico - diplomatic or
military argument at no small
advantage to yourself. In times
gone by, a few Europeans
recognised and strove to turn
to account the strategic poten-
tialities of Central Asia, but
they—men like Dr. .Toseph
Wolff, Sir Francis Young-
husband and Rudyard Kipling
—were apt to be dismissed as
romantic visionaries by their
hard-headed and ‘realistic’ con-
temporaries.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “The
Tibetan revolt has stripped the
veil of pretence from Peking.
What has happened is naked
military aggression and the
imposition, by force of arms,
of an alien rule on the protest-
ing people of Tibet.
“It is impossible to believe
that the echoes of this revolt
have already died down. The
roots of the Tibetan demand to
TROG, IN LONDON “SPECTATOR ”
be left alone lie deep in the
character of the people and the
structure of their society.
Resistance to the invader will
undoubtedly continue. The
Tibetans may not be able to
drive him out, but he can be
harassed without cessation.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
“Asian opinion, led by India,
is unmistakably on the Tibetan
side. This is the first time the
Eastern version of colonialism
has emerged for all to see, and
Peking can ill afford that.
Suspicion of China’s new
strength has been kept in
check mainly by her pro-
fession of the Five Principles
of peaceful coexistence. They
have served both China and
India well, and neither country
may feel that it can throw them
overboard. But there is little
doubt that they will be hope-
lessly undermined if Indian
sentiment"over Tibet is left out-
raged.
“Mr. Nehru’s attitude so far
can only be justified as an
expression of the hope that
China would see the folly of
forcihg revolution of this
unique country with its
medieval civilisation. Chou
En-lai admitted to Mr. Nehru
that Tibet was not Chinese nor
a province of China. To treat
it as such would be the biggest
mistake the Peking regime has
yet made. But unless China
makes amends it is up to Mr.
Nehru above all to express
India’s revulsion.”
* * *
London “New Statesman” :
“In the legal sense, as many
past official British announce-
ments made clear, Tibet is part
of China, though the central
Government of China has,
until the Communists came,
seldom exercised any control
in Lhasa. Nehru may still have
some hope of mediating ; his
1954 treaty with Chou En-lai
leaves him some standing-
ground, in that India then
resigned the rights in Tibet
which she inherited from the
British while Chou En-lai
promised to respect Tibet’s
autonomy.
“But Nehru’s real anxiety is
lest the Tibetan” revolt spreads
to areas like Sikkim and
Bhutan, whose autonomous
rulers rely by treaty on India’s
protection. If their Buddhist
populations were to rise in
support of the Tibetans, Peking
might seize the excuse to cross
the frontier, and so perhaps
precipitate a catastrophic clash
with India.
* * *
London “Econo mis t” :
“When it comes to sentiments,
as distinct from words and
actions, Mr. Nehru probably
feels the same about Tibet as
do the Indians who have been
parading in front of the
Chinese Embassy in Delhi,
bearing anti - Communist
slogans. This is, at any rate,
consistent with his public ex-
pression of sympathy for the
Tibetans. In refusing to go
further he is doubtless con-
scious of the immensity of
India’s common frontier with
territory ruled by China, and
of those disturbing Chinese
maps that claim parts of Kash-
mir and Assam as Chinese.
“His reticence is indeed the
only logical course in the light
of his agreement with Mr.
Chou En-lai in 1954, which
recognised the Chinese fait
accompli in Tibet. Reticence,
however, is no more a foreign
policy than non-involvement is.
Like the United States of 1776,
the independent India of 1947
tended to think of Power-
politics as none of its business.
As other newly independent
nations have done before it,
Mr. Nehru’s India may be
emerging from the age of
innocence. In later years the
republic of India may look
back upon this month as its
moment of truth.”
♦ * *
London “Daily Telegraph'’:
“With the escape of the Dalai
Lama the Tibetan rebellion
passes beyond the point of no
return. So long as he remained
within the country it was pos-
sible that one more compromise


between Peking and Lhasa
might be reached. Now that
he has fled to India the Chinese
must resign themselves to a
fight to the finish.
“It is inconceivable that the
Dalai Lama would agree to
return unless the Chinese
Army were withdrawn—a con-
dition which the Communists
will certainly refuse. Yet until
he does return, Tibetans will
continue the battle in the
secret valleys and frozen
heights which make the in-
vaders’ task both dangerous
and protracted.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tri-
bune” : “No one can predict
the military course of the
Tibetan revolution. Red
China has, relative to the iso-
lated and unindustrialised
Tibetans, virtually limitless
resources. The terrain is
extremely difficult, but the
Chinese Communists, employ-
ing manpower callously and
accustomed to fighting with-
out the impedimenta of most
modern armies, can set the
mountains and deserts at
naught , if they are sufficiently
determined. Yet a stiff, pro-
longed resistance by the
Tibetans could well be a strain
upon the Peking regime during
its ruthless drive to raise China
by its bootstraps to an in-
dustrial State on the most
rigidly Marxist model.”
Indian Views
Two Indian editorial com-
ments, as quoted by “India
News,” of the Informa-
tion Service of India (Sydney):
Delhi “Hindustan Standard”:
“India has no interest at all in
any kind of criticism of China,
whose present great revival is
regarded by Indians with the
friendliest admiration, but at
the same time India has an
unsurrenderable interest, moral
as well as practical, in Tibet's
freedom —call it autonomy or
by any other name so long as
the substance is not destroyed.
It is in the context of such a
climate of opinion that the
future position of the Dalai
Lama as a political refugee
has to be visualised.”
* * *
Calcutta “Statesman” : “To
receive refugees who agree not
to .use this country as a base
for political activity against
China ; to advise the Chinese,
if receptive, to use moderation
now that they have overthrown
the main opposition in Tibet :
this is all that India can be
expected to do. Hers is an
embarrassing position familiar
to individuals, in which heart
and brain are at variance. A
compromise has been reached
between these conflicting
counsellors. Mr. Nehru and
his advisers could scarcely
have done better.”
Red Kerala
/Commenting on the growth
of Communism in India,
with particular reference to
present Communist control of
Kerala,' Sir Thomas Rapp, in
a letter to London ‘ Daily Tele-
graph,” remarks that “three
months I have recently spent in
Kerala have proved far from
reassuring”:
“The Communists came to
power in Kerala two years ago
because of the widespread dis-
satisfaction with the previous
Congress Governments, the
disunity that prevailed in the
ranks of the Congress and
Socialist parties, and their own
specious promises.
“Only 38 per cent, of the
electorate, however, voted for
them and the fellow-travelling
independents: and for two
years their power has rested
on the slender majority of two
in the Kerala Assembly.
“Although the Communist
party in Kerala has a member-
ship of only 70,000-80,000 out
of a total population of about
13-r million, it possesses a
discipline and dynamism that
the Opposition parties sadly
lack. The Communist Ministers
(some of whom I met, though
I failed to see the Chief
Minister, Dr. Nambudripad,
who was in Moscow attending
the Congress of the Soviet
Communist party) are hard-
working and .accessible, in
contrast with their predecessors.
They gave me the impression
of putting party before per-
sonal interests, again unlike the
Governments that went before
them.
“The Communists seemingly
do not intend to -relinquish
power through tame submis-
sion to the freely expressed
vote of the electorate. With
purposeful energy they are
penetrating every branch of
life with their supporters, and
no village, however small, is
without its Communist celi.
“By various devices they are
successfully gaining control of
all village councils (panch-
ayats), the numerous co-opera-
tives (on which so much of the
economic life of Kerala de-
pends), the trade-unions, all
district and local committees,
education and, so far as their
powers allow, the police and
judiciary. Occupation of these
and other key positions will
Faith in the
Future
Anzac Day comes once again to stir all
Australian hearts.
In Churches, at shrines, in parades, the
expression will be one of mingled sorrow and
pride; of homage to those who have died in our
country’s service, and thankfulness for the national
honour that has flowed from their sacrifice.
Each year we pause to make this tribute; some
of us living the memory of an actuality, others
hearing the story as part of our country’s legend.
And in Australia’s rise we see the increasing
debt we owe to those whose love of country was
priced in life itself.
Only forty-four years separate us from the
historic landing at Gallipoli. Yet how different
are the conditions of 1959 from those that obtained
when that epic was fought, or when our Light
Horsemen were campaigning in Egypt and our
infantrymen were trenched down in the mud of
France and Flanders.
In another war, younger heroes have added
their lives to the list of noble giving. The map
of the world has been changed. An Empire has
evolved into a Commonwealth in which Australia,
confirmed in nationhood by the courage of its men
and women in all the Services, has been assigned
an eminent place.
Things then undreamed in science have been
accomplished. Atomic power has been opened
to industry and propulsion. Rockets hurl into
outer space, and satellites spin round an Earth to
whose inhabitants in 1915 the flights of frail aircraft
were still a fresh wonder.
In Australia itself the population has been
doubled to twice the five-million from whom
416,809 men volunteered for service overseas.
From the cycle of progress that less than half
a century has produced, we get some measure of
the future that is before us now-—in a world in
which Faith, Effort, and Sacrifice are still the
precious currency with which to purchase the
freedom and prosperity that were saved for us in
the selfless spirit of Anzac.
H. Hastings Deening


clearly enable them to influence
the course of future elections.
“As things are at present,
Kerala is likely to remain
Communist. What is still more
important is to know how far
its example will be followed by
other Indian States.
“Here, again, it is the
strength of the Communist
organisation that will count
most, notwithstanding the
social and economic progress
to which the Congress party
may be able to point. So long
as Mr. Nehru remains at the
helm, it is not expected that the
Communists will gain any-
sweeping victories, but there
is much gloomy foreboding as
to what may happen after-
wards.
“Already, too. there is much
talk of the possibility of further
Communist successes in the
next elections in 1962 in West
Bengal, Andra and even
Bombay, in all of which
States the Communists are
rapidly gaining strength.”
Russia's Berlin Aims
■p eviewing a book called
The Communist World
and Ours, written by U.S.
political commentator Walter
Lippmann after a long inter-
view with Khrushchev last
October, London “New States-
man” remarks that if “Mac-
millan and Eisenhower take the
points made in this book as a
fair summary of the Soviet out-
-1o o k they will go to the
Summit with a much clearer
idea of what Khrushchev wants
and, conversely, what they
should seek to get from him.
“Early in the interview
Khrushchev enunciated a pro-
position which is becoming
increasingly common in semi-
official Soviet utterances: the
Russians want ‘to relax tension
on the basis of the status quo ’
But what is the status quo ?
“First, he means that (with
the exception of China and
Vietnam, where—unlike Korea
and Germany—the differences
between the two parts of the
countries are ‘internal’) any
change of frontiers by military
force would be a violation of
the status quo. But this is
not all. His notion of the
status quo is not that of
the West. Marx said that a
developing movement is more
important than an existing
state of affairs, and Mr. K.
explains in his interview with
Lippmann that the status quo
is not static but dynamic.
“ ‘ln his mind,’ writes Mr.
Lippmann, ‘the social and
economic revolution now in
progress in Russia, China and
elsewhere in Asia, and Africa
is the status quo, and he wants
us to recognise it as such. In
his mind, opposition to this
revolution is an attempt to
change the status quo.’
“Mr. Khrushchev went on
to express the fear that if the
U.S. concludes that it is losing
the cold war it will resort to a
hot war. He is convinced that
the Communist countries will
in fact outdistance the West
technologically and economic-
ally, with the result that the
poorer countries will turn to
them for help.
“Without accepting Khrush-
chev's crude oversimplification
of Western attitudes, it is none
the less clear that if war is to
be ruled out the future depends
New York “Herald Tribune.”
“NOW IT’S STRICTLY UP TO THE MOUSE.”
on competition between East
and West for the support of
hundreds of millions of people
in Asia and Africa who are in
a dynamic, not a static, mood.
“Russia believes it can win
the competition in Asia and
Africa. Hence the importance
to Khrushchev of' ‘reducing
tension,’ both in Europe—
where Communism has,
temporarily at least, lost the
battle and is therefore anxious
to freeze the ‘immobile’ status
quo —and in Asia and Africa
-—where the Russians are eager
to exploit what they believe
to be their advantage in the
‘revolutionary’ status quo with-
out provoking the Americans
into hot war.
“As to Europe, we may
assume that there will be no
serious discussions about uni-
fying Germany in the near
future. Mr. Lippmann is almost
certainly right in deducing from
the conversation with Khrush-
chev that Russia will not agree
to free negotiations by the two
Germanys if West Germany is
nuclear-armed. Whether
Moscow has ever been ready to
surrender East Germany in
exchange for the demilitarisa-
tion of the whole country is
now unimportant; Khrush-
chev has now clearly decided
to maintain a divided Ger-
many.
“This does not, in fact, con-
flict with Western views.
Adenauer may pay lip-service
to united Germany, but he has
strong political and economic
objections to any attempt at
unity with an anti-Catholic
area where private enterprise
has disappeared. De Gaulle is
a fervent believer in unity
within Little Europe which
may easily develop into a
modern version of the empire
of Charlemagne ; Charles de
Gaulle will not be crowned at
Aachen, but he, too, may play
the role of leader of united
Christian Western Europe.
Moreover, no Frenchman
wants a Germany that out-
numbers France.
“It may be taken for granted
that Mr. K. regards a nuclear-
armed West Germany working
within Nato as the greatest
danger to Soviet security. He
may be willing to discuss
schemes for ‘thinning-out’ or
‘disengagement,’ if he is sure
they do not weaken his position
in Eastern Europe. Jt is
possible that he will accept a
scheme of inspection in return
for some form of disengage-
ment.”
Making a few deductions
from all this, the “New States-
man” notes that “we have to
assume that Russia's immediate
objective at the coming Foreign
Ministers’ and summit nego-
tiations is to secure the recog-
nition of East Germany,” and
that “if the Soviet Union plays
its cards carefully it runs little
risk of provoking war over
Berlin”:
“Nothing can prevent Russia
withdrawing from East Ger-
many and thus leaving the
Western Allies in Berlin under
the practical necessity of
having to work with the rulers
of the State within which West
Berlin js situated.
“The implications are
obviously dangerous, since
they include the legal rights of
the Western Allies in West
Berlin. Mr. K. attempts to
reduce the danger of a clash
by denying any attempt to
impose a time-limit to the pro-
posed changes and by promis-
ing that East Germany will not
interfere with the Allies’ free
access to West Berlin. At a
press-conference on March 20
he agreed that the Western
Allies had equal rights in
Berlin arising from Germany’s
surrender, and added, after
explaining that the time had
come for the U.S.S.R. to sign
a treaty with East Germany,
that he did not intend to up-
set West Berlin's ‘way of life’
and that is ‘why, by agree-
ment with the Government of
the German Democratic Re-
public, we propose that West
Berlin should enjoy the status
of a demilitarised free city.’
“It seems essential, if the
West is not to suffer a humili-
ating diplomatic defeat, that its
spokesman should have agreed
upon a positive proposal of
its own —such, for instance, as
a United Nations status for
Berlin —which it has thought
out and can present to Russia
at the summit conference.”
Commenting on the same
book in London “Daily Tele-
graph,” Peregrine Worsthorne
notes that “Mr. Khrushchev
does desperately want Berlin,
since its continuance as part
of the free world acts as a
constant source of instability
in his Eastern empire”:
“Last November’s ulti-
matum, and the succeeding
propaganda battle, was an


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,'
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington. N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to. country cheques ,
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
The Two Chinas
attempt to break the Western
nerve by shock-tactics, in the
hope that by playing on
Western weakness in Berlin
the Allies would give way with-
out a struggle. But if the West
refuses to be panicked and
dares Mr. Khrushchev to do
his worst —which is in effect
what it has done —can he in
fact afford to do so?
“So far as Berlin is con-
cerned he has all the cards. But
can he afford to play them? It
is difficult to imagine a worse
way of stabilising East Ger-
many than getting the East
German Communist puppets to
turn the economic screw on
West Berlin. The spectacle of
the hated Herr Ulbricht
attempting to blockade the free
city might well spark a further
outbreak of the June, 1953,
kind in Eastern Germany.
“Herr Brandt, the West
Berlin Burgomaster, hinted
recently that if the Soviet
Union encouraged the East
German Communists to block-
ade his city he would retaliate
by encouraging anti-Com-
munist riots in the Eastern
Zone. At present West Ger-
many and the Western Powers
as a whole make little real
effort to exploit the Soviet
Union’s difficulties in East
Germany and Eastern Europe.
This restraint would soon end
if Mr. Khrushchev put the
screw on Berlin.
“But this, according to Mr.
Lippmann’s analysis, is the very
last thing that the Russian
rulers want. What would it
benefit them to gain all Berlin
if the price were an even more
restive and rebellious Eastern
Europe?
“There is another factor
which must also make Mr.
Khrushchev pause. Accord-
ing to Herr Brandt, who has
recently returned from a tour
of Asia, the leaders of the
uncommitted world are
genuinely aroused about the
Soviet threat to West Berlin
and have made their views
known in the Kremlin.
“In a sense, therefore, the
Very weakness of West Berlin
which makes its inhabitants
so fearful is also its greatest
strength. This is not to say
that Mr. Khrushchev would be
withheld by any moral scruples
from shooting a sitting duck.
But by shooting a sitting duck
in Berlin he would frighten off
their perches all the fatter
birds which it is his hope to
bag in Asia and Africa.
“Scepticism [about this]
is not limited to Berliners.
Mr. Macmillan found it at
London "Daily Herald.”
“YOU CAN LEAD A HORSE TO WATER ...”
the highest level in Paris,
Bonn and even Washing-
ton. It arises, of course, from
the undoubted fact that in
challenging the West over
Berlin Mr. Khrushchev seems
to be negotiating from strength,
while the West seems to be
negotiating from weakness.
“But if Mr. Lippmann is
right in his assessment that,
basically, Russia is on the
defensive in Europe, then the
forthcoming summit meeting
might produce results to which
even my Berlin friend [a
restaurateur who told the
writer that Russia would get
all Berlin unless the U.S.
decided to fight] would feel able
to drink a toast.”
From Toronto “Globe and
Mail”:
“Admittedly, Canada is not
the only country which accepts
the ‘two - China’ theory.
Several, such as Britain, not
only recognise the regime which
styles itself ‘Nationalist China’
but also have given full diplo-
matic recognition to Peking.
“These countries have found,
however, that playing both
sides doesn’t work it
particularly disturbs their rela-
tionship with the real China —
and Canada should take a
warning from their experience.
“We can build better rela-
tions with China only by facing
facts and by disposing of
fictions. The first, and biggest,
fiction to be disposed of is
Chiang.”
Various Voices
President Eisenhower: “Com-
munism exploits the oppor-
tunity to intensify world un-
rest by every possible means.
At the same time Communism
masquerades as the pattern of
progress, as the path to eco-
nomic equality, as the way to
freedom from what it calls
‘Western imperialism.’ For the
free world there is the challenge
to convince a billion people in
the less developed areas that
there is a way of life by which
they can have bread and the
ballot, a better livelihood and
the right to choose the means
of their livelihood, social
change and social justice—in
short, progress and liberty.”
Lord Hailsham : “There are
some people who seem to
think that if we in this country
[Great Britain] just pretended
it [the hydrogen-bomb] did not
exist, if we neither made it
nor had it ready nor tested it,
we should somehow be safer.
I do not agree. The hydrogen-
bomb does exist, and there is
no use in acting as if it did
not. It exists, and it exists in
the hands of the very people
who were willing to massacre
the people of Hungary simply
because they wished to get rid
of a Communist Government.
Can anyone doubt that if we
were helpless they would,
sooner or later, give us the
same choice?”
Mr. J. L. Hanson (president
of Bradford Chamber of
Commerce): “In my opinion,
we [the wool trade] have
turned the corner. We have
endured an ‘ordeal by bank-
rates,’ and we have seen
commodity prices fall in an
alarming manner. The effect
on many individual merchants
and old-established businesses
has been severe and in some
cases tragic, but I have no
hesitation in saying that those
who have been successful in
weathering the storm will be
the better for the experience.
Much of the flabby thinking
induced by the easy inflationary
days has been halted, and a
keener, more realistic atmos-
phere is apparent.”


stated the common belief of
most Japanese; the Emperor
was above war and peace,
defeat or victory: he was a
god who could do no wrong.
His attitude of disinterested-
ness also showed that whatever
the war’s outcome, he and his
family could suffer no harm.
Hirohito, to all appearances,
remained a god-symbol of
Japan ; he could exist without
his people, but his people could
not exist without him. The
aspect remained ignored, how-
ever, as to what Emperor Hiro-
hito actually thought of him-
self—what he considered to be
his proper status in the hier-
archy. Before the surrender
he never had man-to-man
talks with his people, expressed
no personal opinions, and his
only individual expression
came from a strange poetry
competition.
Every year there is a nation-
wide poetry competition in
which hundreds-of-thousands
of Japanese participate. The
poems are judged, but the all-
Japan winner is always
Emperor Hirohito. His poem,
on the eve of the Pacific war,
appealed for world peace, and
expressed hopes for the pros-
perity of mankind. Soon after-
wards his planes attacked Pearl
Harbor.
If his poem was a last, and
desperate, attempt to warn and
stop the warmongers, it failed
miserably. It may also have
been an attempt to whitewash
him for posterity. If the latter
was his intention, he fully
succeeded.
In the years I spent in Japan
I again interviewed hun-
dreds of Japanese ; some spoke
quite disrespectfully of the
Emperor, but there was not a
single one who condemned
him for the war. And all
agreed that it was his influence
and “great gesture to the
world” that has saved Nippon
from complete destruction.
☆ ☆ ☆
npHE “great gesture” was
A Emperor H i r o h i t o’s
personal broadcast to the
nation on the hot, desperate
day of August 15, 1945.
Nothing short of his appeal
could have convinced the
Japanese masses to give up the
fight and surrender, accepting
a term of occupation peace-
fully.
The myth of Nippon inviol-
ate was gone. The people had
prepared to meet the Allied
invasion, even if they had to
fight against the Occidental
devils with bamboo-sticks.
After the fall of Saipan,
when Japan came into easy
range of American bombers,
every hill had been tunnelled
and became a virtual store-
house for military equipment
and fortification. No other
people managed to glorify
suicide more than the Japan-
ese. On a national scale it had
a deep, and morbid, fascination
for them. They acknowledged
the necessity of dying for the
Emperor, and so he was the
only power able to relieve them
from this obligation.
When the Emperor’s forth-
coming broadcast wasi
announced, most people
expected that he would urge
them on to fight to the “abso-
lute finish,” or announce some
miraculous victory that had
turned the tide of war.
Hirohito recorded his peace
rescript the day previous to the
broadcast. A group of mili-
tary hotheads revolted, and
tried to get hold of the record.
They invaded the Imperial
Palace, ransacked the offices,
but missed the recording.
The following day, for the
first time, millions of subjects
listened to the thin, high-
pitched voice of their ruler.
“Should we continue fight-
ing,” .Emperor Hirohito said,
“it would only result in an
ultimate collapse oblitera-
tion of the Japanese nation,
but also it would lead to the
total extinction of human
civilisation.”
He spoke without remorse,
or sense of wrongdoing; in
fact, “Japan was saving the
world from utter destruction.”
The “god,” however, spoke ;
a contact had been established
with ordinary mortals; the
process of “de-deification” had
commenced.
The “surrender rescription”
was no personal affront to the
Emperor; it merely showed
him in a mood of benevolence.
But in late September, 1945, a
mere three weeks after the
surrender, Hirohito, accom-
panied by his most trusted
officials, left his palace to visit
General MacArthur at the
American Embassy. It was
the first time in history that a
Japanese Emperor went to see
any authority, except the
council of gods at the shrine
of his ancestors.
The morning following the
Emperor’s visit all the Japanese
and Allied newspapers carried
a picture of General Mac-
Arthur in a plain uniform,
looking stern and unapproach-
able, towering over the “god”
dressed in ill-cut civilian
clothes, his face expressing a
man in an obvious quandary.
The photos, and story of
Hirohito’s “humiliation,” only
created bitterness in the
Japanese mind. “He was forced
to go, making this supreme
sacrifice to ease the burden of
his people,” was the general
consensus of opinion. “This
is a never - to - be - forgotten
insult.”
Hirohito’s visit to Mac-
Arthur certainly did not create
a basis for better understand-
ing and goodwill between the
Japanese and the occupying
forces, but it was, in fact, the
first proof that Japan was
defeated.
The next, and far more
significant, move in the pro-
cess of “de-deification” was
contained in an Imperial
Rescript to commemorate the
New Year of 1946.
“The ties between us and our
people,” Hirohito said in his
New Year’s message to the
nation, “have always stood
upon mutual trust and affection.
They do not depend upon mere
legends and myths. They are
not predicated on the false con-
ception that the Emperor is
divine, and that the Japanese
people are superior to other
races and fated to rule the
world.”
☆ ☆ ☆
'"Fhe idea to renounce his
divinity came from Mac-
Arthur’s headquarters. Hirohito
at first protested. How could
he renounce a thing he never
possessed? The Japanese tried
to explain to Allied authorities
that their idea of divinity was
a loose and pliable affair. But
SCAP insisted. Hirohito
obliged.
The question now arose,
Was Hirohito ever considered
a god? Prince Takahito
Mikasa, third son of the Im-
perial House, in an article he
wrote in the Tokyo Imperial
University’s publication, deep-
ened the controversy.
“Around my brother, Hiro-
hito,” Mikasa wrote, “still
hangs a misty veil of traditional
ideas, expressed so fully by the
old, but still frequently used,
word ‘Tenno’ [Heavenly
King].
“The first thing we were
taught was that members of
our family were not human-
beings. Consequently our inner
feelings, such as love for
fellow-men, cannot be
measured by normal standards.
The people must get rid of
their old sophisticated ideas of
the Emperor. They must
establish a new conception com-
patible with the democratic
era which has come to Japan.”
Then Mikasa went on to
suggest eliminating the still-
lingering Emperor myth by
playing Japan’s present national
anthem only on the Emperor’s
birthday, and “composing one
which is more democratic”;
the eliminating of all 16-
petalled golden-chrysanthemum
symbols which are the stamps
of the Emperor’s unquestion-
able authority over everything
Japanese.
☆ ☆ ☆
T>rince Mikasa’s entreaties
■*" were not heeded. The
Japanese anthem was played
on all suitable occasions, the
Emperor’s chrysanthemums
displayed on everything
possible, yet the clouds of the
Emperor-myth slowly, gradu-
ally, were clearing away.
Hiroshimi Kumuzawa, a
former Buddhist priest, claimed
Hirohito’s throne. Whether he
was a crackpot, or had some
solid justification, remained un-
important. The main issue was
that someone “dared” to
attempt the “unthinkable.”
Even during the shoguns’ rule
a pretender’s mere existence,
without making any claim,
would have been considered
preposterous.
The news spread like wild-
fire through Nippon, creating
arguments and consternation.
About the same time as the
pretender’s appearance, several
university-professors in Tokyo
and Kyoto declared that
“Japanese history was full of
falsehoods and it must be re-
written in order to bring the
truth to the people.”
☆ ☆ ☆
■Out more than all the essays,
verbal opinions and gossip,
Emperor Hirohito himself
started to contribute to his own
“de-deification.”
Before the Occupation it was
a criminal offence to look upon
the Emperor. On rare occa-
sions, when he passed through
a. street, the upper floors of the
buildings had to be evacuated,
blinds drawn, so that the
“subjects could not look down
on the Tenno.” In the vicinity
of an Imperial Palace no build-
ing was allowed to be higher
than the Emperor’s abode. The
superstition that any ordinary
being who looked on the Tenno
had to perish was believed with-
out question.
The Japanese never had a
full description of Hirohito. It
was considered an offence “to


measure him up.” Tailors of
the Imperial Household used to
live in constant despair at not
being able to take his measure-
ments ; their low hands could
not touch the divine person.
Also, they had to assume that
he was of heroic stature, accord-
ing to the traditions of their
predecessors who tailored
Western style for Mutsuhito
and Yoshihito. Therefore it
created a mild sensation when
the “Asahi Shimbun,” Japan’s
largest paper, with a circulation
of more than three-million,
published the following facts:
Hirohito is sft. 3.2 in. tall,
weighs' 1321 b. 40z., has seven
moles and one wart on his face,
wears myopic glasses with a
lens concavity of 10 de-
grees ....
But the Japanese now had
not only an opportunity to
read about the physical details
of their Emperor ; they could
also see him in person.
☆ ☆ ☆
Tn order to humanise him-
self, Hirohito went on several
tours of inspection, and literally
mingled with his people. In
Osaka, one of the first cities
Hirohito, in his new capacity
as a democratic ruler, visited,
a crowd of 5000 waited for him
in front of the Prefectural
Building. Just as he walked up
to the steps to meet the mayor
and other officials who
trembled in their excitement,
waiting for the exalted moment
to greet him, the people broke
through the police cordon and
mobbed their ruler out of sheer
affection.
I had my close-up on
Hirohito when he visited the
Osaka Mainichi Press, where
the “British Commonwealth
Occupation News” had its
offices. Hirohito was guided
through the departments of the
newspaper’s huge building.
Japanese, explaining the uses
of various machinery, spoke in
voices quavering with happi-
ness. They were amongst the
first who were able to speak to
their ruler on an “even level.”
Hirohito listened absentmind-
edly. Occasionally he bit his
well-trimmed moustache, then
said: “Ah, so, desuka?” (“Is
that so?”) For this conversa-
tion with his subjects it seemed
to be his complete vocabulary.
He looked totally un-
accustomed to mingling and
talking with people. Yet, in
his youth, when a Crown
Prince, he was the first Japan-
ese heir to the throne who
ventured to leave the “sacred
shores of Nippon, and make a
tour of other countries.” All
Japan was agog when that
intention was announced. A
hundred Tokyo schoolboys
offered to commit a joint hara-
kiri if that was the only way
to keep him, at home. The
children escaped their untimely
death.
During his trip Hirohito
freely mixed with ordinary
mortals, handled money, re-
buked a conductor in a
London subway, bet on races,
and generally behaved in a
normal manner, conspicuously
lacking all traits of divinity.
This refresher-course, taking
him through the Japanese
countryside, was a lot more
difficult than the “first experi-
ence.” This “self-humanisa-
tion” was a very hard task.
Hirohito’s replies, and
remarks, were curt, often
pathetic. He visited Hiroshima
at a time when most of the
atom-bomb damage was still
very much evident.
“There seems to have been
considerable damage here,”
was all he said when guided
through the target-area.
The more,, he appeared in
public, the more freely the
people talked about him. Quite
openly some Japanese referred
to him as “Mr. Ah, so, desuka,”
because this was his standard
answer.
Clearly, the Emperor tried
to interest himself in his people,
but, as his brother Mikasa
remarked, his inner feelings
could not be measured by
normal standards.
☆ ☆ ☆
"Cmperor Hirohito was de-
■*“' termined to get in touch
not only with his own people
but with the Westerners also.
Well, to put it mildly, the first
—and probably last —imperial
press - conference for all
Western correspondents in
Tokyo developed into a photo-
graphic free-for-all.
Hirohito and Empress
Nagako came to the Mitsukoshi
Store to see exhibits of the
Japanese newspaper-week, and
have an “informal chat” with
foreign correspondents. It was
quite likely the queerest and
most unpleasant experience in
their whole life.
Hundreds of cameramen
crowded the narrow passage-
ways, worked into a frenzy as
they tried to focus their lenses
on the bewildered couple. Some
of them tried to mount ladders;
a few attempted to climb on the
backs of others.
Now and then Empress
Nagako, anxious to keep close
to her husband, was cut off
by an oncoming avalanche of
excited photographers. Helped
by officials, she literally had to
fight her way back to Hirohito.
For a full 90 minutes this
unseemly battle raged. Then
the royal couple, followed by
court officials, managed to
leave the Mitsukoshi Store,
looking bewildered, exhausted.
That night in the bar of
Tokyo’s International Press
Club a veteran correspondent
expressed the sentiment of most
of us: “We certainly made a
great show of ourselves. Talk
about ‘Emperor worship’! It
seems to me we went just as
mad about being close to the
‘Tenno’ as any of his Japan-
ese subjects. Scratch the sur-
face on anybody’s skin deep
enough, and what do you
find?”
Hirohito's embarrassment in
contacting people, his reticence,
created the opinion, not only
amongst Occidental observers
but many Japanese as well,
that the tours were just a
publicity stunt. Let the Allies
leave Japan ; things will
gradually slip back into their
old form, and the Emperor
regain his former position.
But the truth was that
Hirohito made a serious
attempt to bring the Western
concepts of moral and even
religious ideas closer to his
family. During the years of
occupation an American, Mrs.
Elizabeth Vining, tutored
Akihito. She thought the
imperial family “very human,
and held its members in high
esteem.”
The three Imperial daughters
—Takanomiya and Yorino-
miya in their twenties, and
Suganomiya, a teenager—were
taught by Mrs. Tamiki Uemura,
president of the All-Japan
Y.W.C.A.
☆ ☆ ☆
A/Trs. Vining, and Japanese
tutors with “Christian
and democratic tendencies,”
played a great part in the
young prince’s education.
Akihito was just turning
twelve when Japan’s surrender
completely changed his life.
His father went to the West,
but now the Occident came to
him. According to age-old
tradition, .at the age of five he
was taken to the Akasaka
detached palace, where a group
of retainers trained him in
almost complete isolation to
become the “Son of Heaven”
after his father has departed
to the realm of his ancestors.
He lacked family life alto-
gether. His parents, sisters and
“important relatives” could
visit him only at stipulated
times. A god, it was said,
could have ancestors, but no
relations.
With the same suddenness as
Hirohito capitulated, Akihito
was made to leave his splendid
isolation, and joined his family
at the Imperial Palace in
Tokyo. Instead of receiving
tutors he was sent to the peers’
school, became keenly inter-
ested in sport, especially tennis.
He freely mingled with all
kinds of people, picking his
own friends.
It was at a tennis-party,
in the summer of 1957, that
he met Miss Shoda, the miller’s
daughter. So far as Akihito
was concerned, it was love at
first sight. But Michiko Shoda
hesitated. Her attitude was
not just that of a girl who
wanted to play coy in a big
way. She was afraid to become
a narikin.
Narikin, freely translated
into English means “new
rich.” In Japanese, however,
it has a much greater mean-
ing—the same term is given to
the pawn promoted to queen,
rampaging about the chess-
board as a bigshot. There was
no place of honor for a narikin
in the old Japanese hierarchy.
Yet it is said that Akihito
was purposely searching Japan
for a girl of “common stock”
m order to complete the circle
of “de-deification” of his
family. If he had followed
traditions in his search for a
suitable bride, he had to select
a wife from one of the five
eligible lines of the Fujiwara
family, as had been the
custom for the last 13 centuries.
Hirohito himself married for
love, sidestepping tradition,
but certainly not to the extent
Akihito defied orthodoxy. He
met Princess Nagako, eldest
daughter of Prince Kuniyoshi
Kuni, when Crown Prince, at
a Tokyo reception.
Princess Nagako was of
“excellent blood,” but she did
not belong to the five eligible
lines of Fujiwaras, although
she was remotely related to
them. It was Hirohito’s
mother, the Empress Dowager
Sadako, who fought tooth-and-
nail for the love-match against
the orthodox. It is quite likely
now, as the Empress of Japan,
Nagako supported her son
during the preliminaries that
led to this fabulous betrothal.
An interesting sidelight is
that Michiko Shoda was an
honors graduate of a Roman
Catholic girls’ college in
Tokyo, but has not adopted
Christianity.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY IX MIXED
Incorporated in England
m
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Country Mail Services
The P.M.G. collected tens of
thousands of pennies during
the last series of cricket Tests
by making the scores available
to metropolitan telephone-
subscribers at 3d. a time. Now
it is out to collect many thou-
sands more by the frequent
recording of weather-forecasts
—also available to metropoli-
tan subscribers at 3d. a call —
a service which should be
rendered free to city and coun-
try listeners through the
national broadcasting-stations.
The department’s enterprise
is commendable, and will no
doubt help to swell the annual
surplus ; but country residents
can’t be expected to wax
enthusiastic about it, since it
coincides with a reduction in
their public - holiday mail-
facilities.
Until January 26 last (Aus-
tralia Day) it had always been
the department’s practice to
keep country post-offices open
for an hour (between 9 a.m.
and 10 a.m.) on public holi-
days, except Christmas Day
and Good Friday, for the col-
lection of mail, lodgment of
telegrams and purchase of
stamps. Letter-receivers were
also cleared for a morning dis-
patch of mail to the capital
cities, for normal delivery on
the following day. On Aus-
tralia Day country post-offices
throughout Australia were
closed' all day, and there was
no dispatch of outward mail;
But I put it up there so’s you'd Wake by the time
you'd turned it off”
stamps could not be bought
nor telegrams lodged except by
telephone-subscribers.
When the Postmaster-
General (Mr. Davidson) was
asked about this in Parliament,
he admitted it was the first
time country offices had been
closed on a public holiday
except Christmas Day and
Good Friday, but would give
no guarantee that a similar
closure would not operate on
all future public holidays.
“The hours of business at
post-offices on public holidays
would be reviewed and a deci-
sion made in each case in the
light of relevant circum-
stances,” the Minister said.
Apparently the “review” did
not induce the department to
change its mind. All country
offices were closed again on
Easter Monday, and there was
no outward mail between
Saturday morning and Tues-
day, nor could telegrams be
lodged except by telephone-
subscribers. Even such an
important centre as Newcastle
was included in the “close-
holiday” arrangement this
time ; and many hundreds of
people everywhere must have
been seriously inconvenienced
as a result. I know I had to
spend half-a-crown on a trunk
telephone-call that would have
been unnecessary had there
been an outward mail for
delivery on Tuesday—and I
live only 45 miles from Sydney
G.P.O. People in remote areas
were much worse off.
But this total closing of post-
offices on a public holiday
affected more than mail-
services. The midday weather-
bulletins from radio-stations on
Easter Monday had to apolo-
gise for their scrappy reports
“on account of the holiday,”
and even weather-forecasts
were much less informative
than usual, due to the meagre
information available. It isn’t
often the metropolitan morning
papers appear without their
detailed rainfall reports, but
that happened on the Tuesday,
again because of the holiday.
The P.M.G. Department
must surely be aware that
country populations have in-
creased considerably in recent
years and that there is need for
extended postal services rather
than a curtailment. Maybe the
department avoided the pay-
ment of penalty-rates to its
staff by the Monday closure;
but this is a small consideration
measured against the public
inconvenience it caused. It is
the plain duty of the Post-
master-General to do some-
thing about it before the next
public holiday.— Peter Simple
(N.S.W.).
Developing Australia
Although the Victorian Pro-
motion Committee has done
much good work for the
Cabbage State in gaining it
many new industries from
overseas, there is much to be
said against the single-State
approach to national develop-
ment.
The way Australia is now
sold overseas, European and
American industrialists could
be pardoned for thinking we
are just a series of disconnected
States and not a united country
alive to the welfare of planned
progress in every part of it,
whether near or far from the
centres of government.
What is wanted at this stage
of our growth is a commission
charged with the job of plan-
ning the whole of our national
development.
While the cities on our east
and south coasts fill and grow,
what about the newer inland
and coastal cities? In compari-
son nothing is done for them,
and yet they are vital to our
future as a nation.
On the basis that it costs
Victoria about £15,000 to send
an adequately equipped mis-
sion overseas each year (figures
given in the Legislative
Assembly), a Federal fund of
£lOO,OOO should meet the
annual requirements of a
national-development commis-
sion and not be missed by the
Treasury. This would be a
small price to pay for a saner
and more even developmental
policy.
The commission could start
by seeking to attract appropri-
ate industries to such leading
outer ports as Newcastle, Port
Kembla, Geelong, Townsville,
Cairns, Portland and Port
Lincoln, and follow this with
similar efforts on behalf of
the bigger provincial cities of
each State. It could then de-
clare as developmental areas
districts like Central and North


Hstab'ished 1368
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKhON&
.O'SULUViVM
JacksonS O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating;
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Queensland, the Gulf Country,
the south-east of S.A., the
Kimberleys and the south-
west of Westralia.
The commission could co-
ordinate the knowledge gained
by Commonwealth and State
instrumentalities about these
areas and put it to good use
in an overall plan.
Such a scheme might be
ambitious, and it might take a
long time to reach fruition, but
at least it would get away from
the haphazard and higgledy-
piggledy method of one State
competing against another,
which is bad for the country
as a whole. — Plain Aus-
tralian (Vic.).
King’s Park, Perth
“Heth’s” full-page of artistry
depicting the city park going
down before a pool, a bus-
stand and a parking-station (B.
18/3/ ’59), could have a par-
ticular reference to Perth.
Here during the next few
months the big guns of press
and Parliament are expected to
be aimed at silencing opposi-
tion to the Perth City Council’s
“decision” to build its aquatic-
centre in King’s Park.
The park doesn't belong to
the City of Perth ; the “de-
cision” is far from unanimous
within the council, and Parlia-
ment has already refused per-
mission. But an all-out attempt
is to be made to reverse the
umpire’s decision and discredit
what Perth columnists and
agony-columnists are calling
the “vociferous minority”
defending the park.
It’s possible, but by no
means established, that those
who oppose the use of King’s
Park for sports-fields, and
particularly for spectator-sport,
may be in a minority. It’s
equally possible that if a State-
wide referendum could be
taken the council’s proposal
would be opposed by more
than half the population. What
is fact is that when the pro-
position was placed before
Parliament, with the blessing of
the Labor Cabinet, it was
defeated by a substantial
majority. You can take it those
members knew how the
majority of their electors
wanted them to vote.
Three public-opinion polls
have been conducted on this
subject during the past few
years, all taken in the metro-
politan area. In the first poll
84 per cent, of those ques-
tioned favored King’s Park as
a site for what was then called
the Olympic Pool. In the
second poll, taken after some
Tell them to keep the patient Warm and Ward-off evil
spirits until I get there!”
of the facts had become known,
82 per cent, still held-out for
it. At the third poll, held
recently, the majority favoring
an “aquatic-centre” in the
park had dropped to 70 per
cent. In this poll most of those
questioned were City Council
ratepayers who’ve been told
that the use of King’s Park will
save them £250,000; yet a
third of them opposed using
the park for this purpose.
Two facts are being ob-
scured. King’s Park belongs to
the State, not the city ; and the
proposition is to build not
simply an Olympic-pool, which
could provide opportunity and
sport for the youngsters, but
an aquatic-centre with a huge
grandstand to provide mainly
for spectators. There’s too
much spectator-sport in Aus-
tralia already.
The charge has been made,
and repeated monotonously,
that few people are seen in
that section of the park that’s
left in its natural state. There
are few seen in the lawned
areas, either; and along the
river foreshore, west of the
causeway, there’s a mile-long
strip of playing-fields, beauti-
fully grassed and ideal for
walks, but except when games
are in progress you don't see
those greens being used.
They’re deserted on Sunday
mornings.
The fact is that these
amenities all have limited use
in the middle of a city, a point
which doesn't matter where
playing-fields are concerned,
but which should be considered
in the siting of a centre which
is going to cost a lot to main-
tain.
The Melbourne authorities
have issued some gentle, well-
meant warnings—they have a
similar centre in their city, but
placed rather better, and its
upkeep is one of their biggest
headaches ; but Perth business
acumen is expected to succeed
where Melbourne’s failed.
King’s Park will "have to be
developed, and the logical line
is that advocated by the Royal
Society—the establishment of
a botanical-centre in which
Australian native flora could
be displayed. We have beauti-
ful flora, much of it unique, a
great part of it in danger from
extinction, and all of it
worth preserving. You can
have playing - fields any-
where, and you can build
them almost overnight. The
worth-while native flora in
King’s Park couldn’t be re-
established elsewhere in less
than a century. — Pieter Nuyts
(W.A.).
Painters and Profits
“Pieter Nuyts” (B. 25/3/’59)
is right on the ball in citing the
painting-trade as a credit-
hazard.
The discrepancies in prices
quoted for painting is inexplic-
able. Trading-methods and
costly advertising by paint-
manufacturers boost the cost
of painting to such a degree
that the competent and
financially stable contractor is
often in danger of losing con-
tracts.
Painting must be done,
and the demand for materials
is constant. Why not sell to
reputable contractors, avoid
credit-risks and put the “no-
hoper” out of the business?
This would afford some pro-
tection to the property-owner,
the merchant, the reliable con-
tractor and the journeyman
painter who is frequently ex-
ploited by irresponsible price-
cutters.
Close association with the
painting-industry for over 50
years convinces me that good
painting - and - decorating is
one of the most skilled trades
in the building-industry. It is
common belief that “anyone
can paint”—look at the num-
ber of “one-coat” finishes on
the market. I saw a Govern-
ment specification specifying
four coats for the repainting
of internal structural-steelwork
never exposed to the weather
and in excellent condition. The
conscientious contractor abides
by the terms, but the less
scrupulous bird might risk
dodging a couple of coats. If
he gets away with it all’s well,
but if caught-out by a strict
supervisor he’s in real trouble.
This is poor consolation to


the contractor who wants to
follow the specification, even
when he knows the surfaces
are overloaded with paint,
Responsible contractors can’t
compete with evasion and
“skimping” tactics. Among
the better type of tenderers
competition is keen, but prices
are reasonably competitive,
based on knowledge of costing
a good class of work.
Acceptance of the lowest
tender is a definite incentive
to price-cutting and possibly
evasion of specifications. It
results in a loss to the painter
and also to the client. The first
“They cant be in!”
step in putting things right
ought to be rigid credit-control
by paint-suppliers. Ajax
(N.S.W.).
Commonwealth Public
Servants
“Pianissimo” (B. 1/4/’59)
was fortunate in being sent to
“a cove who started him on
his public-service career neatly,
gladly and with dispatch.”
When my elder son got his
Leaving Certificate he went
along to the headquarters of
our C.P.S. to ask about
vacancies. Though the service
was supposed to be short of
staff, nobody seemed much
interested in him; eventually
he managed an interview with
an employment-officer who
supplied routine information
on pay and conditions of
appointment.
My boy said: “I intend to
matriculate and go on to a
part-time university course in
arts or commerce. What are
the prospects in the service for
a chap who does that?”
The interviewing - officer
shrugged his shoulders and
remarked: “Might be some
use, you can’t tell. I’ve got my
degree, but as far as I can see
it hasn’t helped me.”
Finally he sent the lad to a
department where there were
vacancies for junior clerks,
Here he was actually offered
a job—entering-up cards in
block-lettering. About the only
question as to his qualifications
or aptitudes was “Can you do
block-lettering?”
So my lad headed for the
Commonwealth Bank, where
he was promptly and compe-
tently interviewed, received
full information on employ-
ment conditions and the pros-
pects of advancement and was
offered immediate appoint-
ment subject to medical
examination. Maybe he was
unlucky in the chaps he struck
at the public-service offices,
but he was thoroughly
browned-off by his initial
reception. Is it any wonder
the Commonwealth P.S.
doesn’t always get young
recruits of the calibre that it
deserves? —Wusslean (Vic.).
Invasion from the North
I agree with George Patter-
son (B. 25/3/’59) that com-
pulsory training is a good thing
for Australia.
The Act under which com-
pulsory training was instituted
has never been repealed.
Operation of it has been sus-
pended, but can be put into
force again if and when the
Government desires.
In the next decade or so
the population of our Asiatic
neighbors is likely to increase
by many millions, but, with the
withdrawal from most Asiatic
countries of European super-
vision of medical, hygiene, and
malarial control, and similar
services, the deathrate is bound
to increase as well.
The idea that all Eastern
countries are overpopulated
may be true as regards Japan
and India, but Siam, Malaya
and many parts of Indonesia
have room for millions more.
Java, for instance, with an area
of 48,000 square-miles—less
than twice the size of Tasmania
—constitutes only 7 per cent,
of the total area of Indonesia
and contains 70 per cent, of its
population. Sumatra four
times the size of Java has
about a seventh of its popu-
lation.
Where are these “Asiatic
hordes” that are to invade
Australia coming from? My
own impression, from 50 years’
experience of the “near
North,” is that the peoples of
these countries aren’t really
interested in inhabiting Aus-
tralia.
I don’t suggest, as George
Patterson implies, that we
should “laugh in derision and
let them go hang”: we must
do all we can to build-up our
forces. —Tock Emma (N.S.W.).
Country Phones
The telephone-section of the
P.M.G.’s Department must
return a handsome profit.
When an exchange at
Brimpaen (Vic.) closed, sub-
scribers were billed for phone-
rents not only to the date of
closing but for the next half-
year as well.
Even more profitable have
been the new rural automatic
exchanges, which, one Wim-
mera (Vic.) councillor claimed,
gave very little better service,
but increased the cost to rural
subscribers by up to 500 per
cent. On the outdated party-
lines local calls, with no time-
limit, had been free, and those
through the nearest exchange
only 3d. With local calls now
3d., and those through
exchange now limited to three
minutes and costing 10d., and
rents greatly increased, people
who formerly paid about £6 or
£7 a half-year found them-
selves being charged £29 or
£3O, even though they were
using their phones less!
Certainly the promised new
zoning-system—whereby only
the unit-fee of 3d. will be
charged for calls within a zone
of from four to eight rural
exchanges, and trunk-line calls
to other zones will also be
relatively cheaper—will greatly
reduce country telephone-costs.
Even so, no one imagines the
department will be at any loss.
—M’Lou (Vic.).
Cementing the Foundations
“I Teach ’em"’ (B. 25/2/’59)
drew attention to serious weak-
nesses in our system of edu-
cation when he stated that its
“foundations are not firm or
dependable.”
These weaknesses might be
lessened by a more careful
selection of teachers for the
lower classes, where the seeds
of learning are planted. Such
teachers need a special apti-
tude for instructing young
children, for in sub-primary
classes the child must be
taught how to learn. If this
is done thoroughly he is then
able to acquire a certain
amount of learning by his own
efforts.
One (successful) teacher
starts the education of five-
year-olds with a large colored
map of the continents. Places
mentioned in stories or
lessons are located on the
map, and a clear picture of thO
world gradually builds-up in
the child’s mind. This teacher
stresses that young children are
anxious to learn about the
world in which they live, and
prefer fact to fiction.
% The foundations of our edu-
cational system may also have
become shaky through our
efforts to make learning
“attractive” and “easy.” Up to
a point this pays dividends, but
pupils must be prepared to
study diligently if they are to
get full value. —Kam (N.S.W-).


sank in the bottle his confi-
dence rose. He’d show them
when they got back . . . !
But he fell asleep, and when
he wakened it was to the sound
of giggling and scuffling on the
veranda. His blood was stag-
nant and he went out to meet
her, cursing weakly to himself.
Stan had left her, and Judith
was hanging to a veranda-post
for support. She giggled again,
and said “Feeling better,
fettler?”
He helped her in and pushed
her on to the bed, leaving her
to sleep it off fully dressed,
beside him.
He awoke to the ringing of
the alarm-clock, quickly fol-
lowed by Judith's curses and
the crash of the clock against
the wall. He lay for a few
minutes and remembered his
discovery of the night before.
His unstimulated blood was
now flat. Again he was a
minority of one in a com-
munity of five, his courage
sapped by their hostility, his
confidence destroyed by their
contempt. He knew he couldn’t
do anything ; he was too weak
to utter even a protest.
Judith sat up, a hand to her
forehead, and moaned softly,
as he rolled from the bed and
began pulling on his clothes.
Discovering she was fully
dressed she turned on him
savagely.
“You always were a lousy
bastard. You could’ve loosened
me bra. and taken off me shoes,
but.”
He mumbled an apology as
he took the tight shoes from
her swollen feet and she
loosened the offending aid to
glamor. He opened his mouth
to speak, but she cut him
short:
“Aw shut up! Get me a
cuppa tea black and an
A.P.C.”
He made the tea and took
it to her with the powder, but
before he could do anything
about his own breakfast she
called him again. She was sick,
and by the time he had
attended to her it was nearly
time to start work. As he
looked at his watch and turned
to leave the room, she grabbed
his hand.
“Don’t you dare leave me —
I’m crook. To hell with your
bloody length.”
He promised to return, and
walked on to the veranda. The
air was already like a blast
from a furnace, a yellow haze
of dust covered the sky, in
which the sun shone dully red,
like an ambitious fflll moon.
The men were waiting at the
trolley-shed. He took the key
from the hook behind the door
and walked towards them.
There was a new train-notice
against the rail in front of his
gate. He picked it up and
studied it as he walked to the
shed.
T Tnlocking the door, he was
conscious of the sly winks
and grins that passed between
the man who had spent half
the night with his wife, and
the others who knew it. He
ignored them, and didn’t speak
until they were about to push
out the trolley.
Then he said, “I’ve got a
bit to do with the time-sheet.
You two can go on weeding
the points in the yard. I want
you, Stan.”
Stan glanced at him expect-
antly, and the others looked as
though they were hoping for
some excitement, but Jim said
no more until they had
departed. The big Pole looked
down at him.
“Veil?”
It was half-query, half-
threat.
The ganger’s voice was not
quite steady. “How about run-
ning the length for me today,
Stan? I’ve got a bit to do on
them sheets. I know I stopped
you before, but to hell with
the regulations; anyway, if
you ain’t on the staff you
should be.”
Stan’s comment was limited
to a wondering “Veil! Veil!”
But his pale eyes seemed to
be asking how weak a man
could get. He was pulling the
tricycle onto the rails when
Jim threw him the train-notice:
“Here, you better cop this.”
Half-an-hour later Jim had
pacified Judith and eaten a
few mouthfuls of breakfast,
and joined the two men weed-
ing the points.
Bluey asked: “Why the
sudden change of jobs, Jim?
Lost interest in the lift?”
Jim consulted his watch.
“There’s a special, a light
engine, coming through. We
wouldn’t 'have time for a lift.”
Doolan asked : “What time?
Where’s the train-notice?”
“She’s due in about ten
minutes. I gave the notice to
Stan, of course.”
“Just as well, like ; he’d hit
the curved cutting just about
the same time as the loco., and
them light engines come like
bats out’er hell.”
The ganger looked at his
watch and nodded his head.
There was a new ring of com-
mand in his voice as he spoke:
“Come on, you blokes. I
want them points weeded and
oiled before she goes through.”
Lacking the leadership of
Stan, they responded without
protest.
It was fear of Stan that had
prevented Jim Cornish from
letting him know, when he had
discovered his jealously-
guarded secret, or telling any-
one else about it. That was
why he had used the regula-
tions to stop him running the
line. You couldn’t let a bloke
who couldn’t read a train-
notice do that . . .
Or could you?
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 535
Across
I—Neckwear1 —Neckwear service which succeeds an ugly-looking victim
of a slasher. (8)
4—Searched, but not against the bed. (6)
9 —The morning devoted to our affair. (5)
11 — Possible feature of the accompaniment in Ted’s
rhumba. (4-5)
12— Deprived of an organ brought right to your door. (9)
13 — 500 musical instruments of Hawaii bluebloods. (5)
14 —Conference colleague -to
testify. (7)
16 —The coppers are after little Louis
Forte. (4)
18 — Dry one freed from the Sahara
state. (4)
19 — Horn e t s disturbed Their
Majesties’ seating. (7)
21 —It can help one’s spirit to pick
up a keynote. (5)
23 —Too highly esteemed bowling by
artist Edward. (9)
26 — Coming to know about a Moslem
chant. (9)
27 — Mother and child with, a trades-
man. (5)
28 — Hardwood in the steamer cuts
of meat. (6)
29 — Emblem of the Turk century
about perfume. (8)
Down
1 — Slovenly punctuation is on
strike. (8)
2 A charge for using the Harbor
Bridge Bikini, for instance. (5)
3 Cried for drink. (5)
5 Dressed 4-across without its
initial. (5)
6 Tuba locks in power failures. (5-4)
7 Stop it 1 (6)
8 — Rum upset the German Queen
of England who’s crook. (8)
10 —Execrated wickedness in red. (7)
14 —Dad tore a Melbourne newspaper
giving information about himself
and Mum, as I think of them. (9)
15 — The Italian victory against it has
to make the air rise at last! (8)
16 — Billiardist has nothing up with
the source of 11-across. (7)
17— The West brick-carrier standard
for measuring a mystery story. (8)
20—Begins with a disreputable woman
in the steamer. (6)
22 —Jail 150 with writing fluid. (5)
24 — He could compose a large com-
position. (5)
25 — Discrimination lying in state. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 534.


Provided it has good
pasture to run on, a
lamb can be weaned
at three months of age
either from the
mother or from the
bottle. However, if
the pasture is in-
different the lamb
should be fed crushed
oats and lucerne hay
from a trough or box.
It is advisable to mark
and tail at an earlier
age than this—shortly
after birth, in fact —
and to use Elastrator
Rubber Rings which
achieve the same re-
sult as the knife but
by atrophy rather
than by the dangerous
method of cutting.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE CASE FOR THE SHEARERS' COOK
From “T.H.W.”
Tn the whole industrial set-
up of modern Australia the
individual working under the
most arduous conditions would
seem to be the shearers’ cook.
We set ourselves up as an
example to the rest of the
world, with our 40-hour week
and tiptop industrial awards,
yet maintain for this particular
employee a working-week of
more than 100 hours—seven
working-days of at least 15
hours a day.
The shearers’ cook is not
entitled to any break for his
own meals. His normal hours
are from 4.30 a.m. to 7.30 p.m.,
but if it is necessary for him
to work before or after these
hours it’s his accepted duty to
do so. He can claim no over-
time, penalty-rates or excess-
payment of any kind. Even if
he had to work 24 hours on
any particular day or, for
that matter, for the whole
seven days of his full working-
week —those hours would auto-
matically become his normal
hours of duty, for which he
would receive no more than
his normal pay.
He must cater and cook for
his particular quota of
shearers, and at the same time
must please and satisfy them
and agree with them in all cir-
cumstances ; but he’s limited
by the conditions, implements,
plant and supplies provided by
the owners of the property —•
and often these leave much
to be desired.
He’s expected to be a real
craftsman in his calling, able
to prepare and supply to his
men no fewer than five meals a
day (with additional ones, if
demanded) —and this, whether
they work or whether they
don’t, whether they are hungry
or not. The meals must be of
a standard at least equal to that
of a high-class city restaurant.
There’s no security of em-
ployment. He can be sacked
at a moment’s notice. Common
causes of sacking are :
antagonism with the owner of
the property or lack of
harmony with the, shed-over-
seer or shearing-contractor ;
falling-out with one or more of
the men, perhaps over a social
argument about the use of the
restricted refrigerator - space
(whether for food or beer) or
about leaving him enough un-
obstructed elbow-room in the
kitchen to perform his duties,
or just a difference of opinion
on any subject, professional
or not; lastly, inefficiency or
being unable to satisfy the
culinary desires or tastes of his
men.
It’s a simple matter and
often happens for one or
more of the men to nurse a
grudge against the cook and
for almost any reason to
agitate for his dismissal. They
have the right to discharge him,
without stated reason and at
a moment’s notice, and he has
no appeal.
As regards pay, the shearers’
cook, on the minimum basis
(13 men or under), draws about
£22 to £22 10s. a week “take-
home” money, clear of the
Government rake-off. If he
has more men, which is not
usual, he is paid more in
accordance with the scale. This
minimum rate works out at
£3 4s. 3d. a day on his seven-
day working-week or about
4s. an hour on his 15-hour
working-day. On the principle
of the Australian industrial
award for the 40-hour week
—in which his 100 hours are
the equivalent of two-and-a-
half weeks —this works out at
about £9 a week or about two-
thirds of the basic wage. He
gets no extras in the way of
holiday-pay, etc.
All the same, he is expected
to be a good unionist and pay
his union-dues the same as
the men he cooks for. He is
a member of the same union as
“And I move no more green-belt concessions !”
they are, but is debarred from
any protection as a unionist
when the matter at issue con-
cerns his rights against the
rights of the shearers, who
exercise unlimited powers over
him, his reputation, character
and security of employment.
Next time you pick up a
magazine or periodical and
read someone’s joke against the
accepted butt of the shearing
industry, remember my plea for
the shearers’ cook.
Victoria's
Little Desert
“1.C.D.”: “Big Billy’s” note
of caution on Victoria’s “Little
Desert” (B. 18/2/’59) is timely.
Until 1945 this area produced
more honey to the acre than
any other type of primary
product. The Victorian
Apiarists’ Association, ever on
the alert to preserve potential
honey - producing areas,
approached Premier Cain
urging the formation of a
committee to decide which type
of agriculture would be most
suitable, before anything was
destroyed which might be of
value to the nation.
In my opinion, this still
applies.
Stockbreeding
Fallacies
“MacMuirick”: The belief
that subsequent progeny by
another sire is affected by a
previous sire is accepted by
many breeders ; it’s known as
telegony. Yet in the light of
modern developments in
genetics such a thing is im-
possible.
Infection of a male by a
female so that in subsequent
matings her characteristics will
show-up in progeny from
another dam is another notion
that’s completely false.
Also for centuries it has been
accepted that experiences of
the pregnant female will affect
the developing foetus, but
scientists have now proved that
this isn’t possible.
On the other hand, some
scientific facts sound just as
weird as the old theories of
black-magic, used to explaiu
conception and birthwariations.
For example, atavism, or
reversion, has now been proved
beyond all doubt. This term
denotes the reappearance of a
characteristic that may have
disappeared from a strain years
earlier —often to the consterna-
tion of the breeder.
Stud Cattle
“J.F.”: P. G. Hampshire's
Stud Cattle in Australia (Beatty
Bros.) deals with such dairy-
breeds as A. 1.5., Friesian,
Guernsey, Jersey and the dual-
purpose Red Poll. With 160
illustrations, and chapters on


At the Ram Sales
Be Sure you invest in
Haddon Rig
Blood!
/ ' • : :
■3 1: * ;->* *
■ '■■ v ; v '
When classing was completed at Haddon Rig in
March another splendid Sydney sales team began
to take shape. These rams are in excellent condi-
tion. and old hands say they have never seen
better. Some will make their appearance at the
Sydney Sheep Show, where Haddon Rig is
exhibiting for the first time since 1923.
Already there are unmistakeable signs that
Haddon Rig is in even greater demand this year.
Although the stud’s breeding potential, increased
by the acquisition of a South Australian property,
made 500 more Flock Rams available, every ram
was sold. Sales of Stud Rams include two at
2500 guineas to one of the larger pastoral com-
panies. Early bookings for Spring and Autumn
deliveries are most advisable.
Last year Haddon Rig again dominated the
Sydney sales with the top-price ram (illustrated
above) going to Guiseley Stud, Walgett (N.S.W.),
for £3780, and taking top aggregate for the 19th
consecutive year.
Leading studs in N.S.W., Queensland, South
Australia and Western Australia are improving
the quality and softness of their wool by using
Haddon Rig Rams.
Whether you seek stud sires or station rams, the
name it pays to remember is Haddon Rig!
Haddon Rig Flock Rams will be avail -
able at EMU SPRINGS, TINTINARA
(S.A.) next September .
HADDON RIG STUD
Warren, N.S.W. Telephone: Warren 74
the principles of breeding,
artificial insemination, herd-
and progeny-testing, and exhi-
bitions and judging, it is a
carefully-documented piece of
work, with much in it to
interest specialised readers.
These, as H. R. Walsh,
president of the Jersey Cattle
Society of Australia, reminds
us in a foreword, are not in-
considerable in number. There
are something like 7000
registered breeders of stud
dairy-cattle in Australia. And,
of course, interest in stud stock
is not confined to the stud
breeders. There are also the
owners of commercial herds,
and the fairly large group of
people who are interested in
all types of livestock, particu-
larly in the Australian environ-
ment.
\ Members of these groups,
and also the general reader,
will find valuable information
in Stud Cattle in Australia.
Students of Rdyal Shows, for
instance, will find in the last
chapter interesting compari-
sons of shows in Britain and
Australia. Mr. Hampshire
considers that every stud
breeder, at least once in a life-
time, should see the great shows
in the U.K. And he reminds
us how much progress has
been made here, in a compara-
tively brief time:
The writer recalls the time, less
than 40 years ago, when one Royal
Agricultural Society in the Com-
monwealth had very few entries
in their stock-section that were
registered pure, and animals were
paraded with pedigrees which read
such as, “By the Duke of Rutland
out of Daisy,” or "By King Wil-
liam out of Strawberry.”
This easygoing aristocracy
has gone for ever. In the
various breed-societies there
has been a sort of Victorian
reaction. If bovine royalty
does, by chance, stray into the
paddock of some humble
Strawberry, the progeny is
never legitimised.
Giving weight and authority
to all this is the author’s back-
ground, summed-up by H. R.
Walsh as follows:
“P.G.,” as he is familiary known
to his many friends and cattle-
breeders throughout the whole of
Australia, has been closely asso-
ciated with the herd-books in all
the major breeds of stud dairy-
cattle in the Commonwealth since
their inception, and he has the
rare distinction of being elected life-
member of three breed-societies and
Federal president of one, Federal
vice-president of the others, as well
as having been founder of three
different breed State branches.
“P.G.” graduated at the Hawkes-
bury College in 1903 and has held
many very important positions in
the dairying and breeding world
since. He is regarded as one of
the best judges of dairy-cattle, and
has been of great assistance to
young breeders during his long asso-
ciation with stud cattle, on farms,
in the lecture-rooms and at stud-
stock shows in many parts of
Australia.
A complete history of the
breeds, as Mr. Walsh remarks,
“would make a shelf of books.”
The author has been content to
give condensed histories of
each breed, fitting these out-
lines into the Australian scene.
The section on the A. 1.5., for
example, begins, as is proper,
with the great Shorthorn
breeders in England—Bates and
Booth, Bakewell and Collins.
It continues with the work of
breeders at Illawarra (N.S.W.),
and has a fairly large section
on the Darbalara family.
Melba 15th of Darbalara,
(bred for the S.A.I. Co.,
Darbalara, near Gundagai,
N.S.W., by J. T. Cole) was
famous in her time, but a good
many people would have diffi-
culty, at this distance, in
remembering details of
her production. They are
supplied in Hampshire's book,
together with production-
figures of other famous cows,
in the various breeds.
Mr. Hampshire has also in-
cluded Cole’s own account of
the breeding of the Darbalara
line. The Cole-Dudgeon hall at
Sydney Showground, by the
way, is a joint memorial to
Melba’s breeder and to another
famous A.I.S. man, Hugh
Dudgeon, founder of Parkview
Stud, Albion Park.
Colored Corn-cobs
“T.M.”: After several years’
experiment, Michael Terry, the
Centralian explorer, has suc-
ceeded in crossing Australian
varieties of corn with the
ancient strain grown by the
Navaho Indians in the U.S.A.
His purpose has been to pro-
duce something new for Aus-
tralian housewives in need of
table-decorations when flowers
are scarce and too costly. With
a gourd, a snip of cactus, or a
piece of twisted driftwood,
these cobs make an unusual
display in a bowl on the table.
They aren't recommended for
eating, like the new hybrid
table-varieties.
The true Navaho corn does
not hold seed in such varied
colors as this new' Australian
cross. The Navaho Indians,
who now live in a reservation
of about 25,000 square-miles
chiefly in Arizona, believe the
colors of their cobs correspond
to the sacred mountains of
their homeland —white for east,
blue for south, yellow for west
and black for north. To these
basic colors Terry has added


many more, so that any cob
may hold seeds colored black,
white, red, maroon, grey, green,
yellow or blue. No two cobs
have the same sequence or
selection of colors, some being
generally dark, while others are
chiefly white, with shades of
yellow and grey.
Terry believes he has pro-
duced a real cross, not a hybrid,
so that replanting of his seed
will produce colors ad lib. and
not revert, as a hybrid might,
to the basic less-colored strains.
Flour Export
“Pieter Nuyts”: H. W. Gay,
chief baking-instructor of the
Bread Research Institute,
recently visited Mauritius. His
trip was sponsored by the
Federal Association of Flour
Millowners, and the idea was
to help Mauritius bakers to
get better results from their
flour, most of which comes
from Australia.
Gay didn’t have to sell our
flour. The island’s bakers
already preferred it, although
it’s dearer than either French
or German flour, both of
which are available in smaller
quantities. But he found dis-
turbing inconsistencies in it—
variations between flour from
different States and even
between bags from the same
factory.
Mauritius has 80 bakeries
catering for over half-a-million
people. Before Gay’s visit
none of them had used im-
provers, and they were amazed
at the effects these produced.
If they now use improvers it
will mean better bread, so
more will be eaten and the
market for flour will increase ;
which will put Australian
millers in a good position, not
only to supply that increase
but to gain a greater share of
the existing market.
Two things will have to be
done. One is entirely up to
the millers. They’ve got to
supply flour that is standard
within narrow limits, and
reliable. For the other move
the millers might expect some
help from the Commonwealth
Government.
Mauritian Minister for
Health Dr. Forget wants to
establish an instructional
course for bakers and appren-
tices, and he’d like to get an
Australian baker with neces-
sary qualifications to take
charge of it. It’ll be a big job,
aiming at improving hygiene
in some of the more backward
bakeries and raising the general
standard of bread-making.
Whoever gets the job will
naturally have a big influence
in recommending the brand or
nationality of flour to be used.
Obviously the Government
and the millowners should
select a suitable man and do
everything possible to co-
operate with the Mauritian
authorities in establishing the
instructional course and in
supplying a standard floifr
acceptable to the island’s
bakers. But they'll have to
move fast. The German and
French millers, who are
already undercutting us by £6
a ton, may be already moving.
Trees for Profit
“Pieter Nuyts”: “Seven-
elms” (B. 11/3/’59) found nr/
article indigestible because he
didn't chew it. I didn’t recorn-
mend that “timber-growing
plantations should be used to
shelter sheep” ; I said that a
few trees planted in the
corners and possibly the centres
of paddocks wouldn’t take-up
much space, would provide
shelter for sheep, and would
give the farmers a saleable
commodity in a few years’ time.
Sheep-shelter is badly needed
on some farms ; and if “Seven-
elms” thinks grazing sheep
would make a small timber-
stand unmarketable he should
see the logs that are being
carted 50 miles to Westralian
sawmills. Today almost any
reasonably-grown trees would
be competed for ; in 30 years’
time they’ll be fought for.
As “Sevenelms” says, the
trees used for matchstick-
making are species of poplars,
which like good rainfall. Why
not grow them as windbreaks
along farm roads or fences in
good-rainfall areas? Plant
thickly, and you can cut com-
paratively young, because
small logs are accepted at
match-factories, and sucker-
regrowth will keep the stand
up.
Also, in W.A. there are any
number of farms, in high-
rainfall areas, with small
pockets of rich ground too
rocky or inaccessible to be
worth cultivating. Where super,
can be laid, this ground has
some value as pasture ; but it
would also grow poplars
luxuriantly, and for that pur-
pose would be worth fencing.
There are other species which
could be grown in out-of-the-
way places on farms; fast-
growing trees which can be
used for purposes which don’t
require big trunks or fully-
grown trees. Isn’t there a
flourishing hickory-plantation
at Broken Hill?
Otherwise unusable parts of
Australia might, supply our
needs in axe-handles and certain
sporting-equipment. American
hickory-trees grown in Aus-
tralia are in some ways superior
to those of their native habitat,
and grow quicker. These trees
need high rainfall, and
millions of them could be
grown in W.A. alone, on good
country which, for various
reasons, isn’t being used and
isn't likely to be. A grove of
hickories planted now \Vould
provide a windbreak within a
few years and might be
marketed in 30 years.
In the Westralian wheatbelt
there are, in the centres of
districts that were natural
forest until burnt to the last
stick 30 years ago, some towns
where firewood now fetches
high prices. Almost any
species of tree planted there
would have some sale in 40
years, and if it can be grown
on waste-land the return is all
profit. Trees planted where
salt is encroaching might re-
claim the land and show a
a double profit.
Tares or Vetches
“Cracca”: A dairyfarmer
might do well to consider sow-
ing tares or vetches mixed with
some of the cereals, to help his
winter-feed programme.
The tare is a leguminous
plant, like the field-pea, but
with smaller and more
numerous leaves. It’s easily
cultivated and thrives on well-
worked, strong soils, even grow-
ing well on fertile clay. It is
one of the best auxiliary
green-crops for feeding dairy-
cattle, is unsurpassed as a
green-feed for pigs, makes
good ensilage, and if cut when
in flower makes excellent hay.
For green-feed it is best
sown with oats, barley, wheat
or rye-corn; the plants are
climbers, and cereals support
the long, weak stems, making
their cutting and feeding to
stock easier.
The tare is also an excellent
green-manure, especially for
orchards, being valuable in
nitrogen. For this it is sown
alone, and ploughed-in when in
flower.
When sown alone, 601 b. an
acre is the usual seeding-rate ;
in combination with cereal,
201 b. of tares and 401 b. of
cereal.
April sowing gives good
winter-growth, with flowering
during late July or early
August. Grown on rich soils
for hay or green-feed the
young growth generally needs
feeding-off, because of its
luxuriance—of course, taking
precautions against bloating.
Golden, Black and Scotch
Grey are all good varieties. A
newer variety, the purple vetch,
is outstanding. It may be fed-
off or cut again and again.
Beecher Barley
“Pastoral”: Beecher barley,
the result of combined efforts
by the Westralian Department
of Agriculture, the Barley
Board and the trustees of the
Wheat Pool, has shown an
increase in production of 387
per cent, in the last 10 years,
compared with the eastern
States’ increase of 166 per
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(9/4/’59)
Queensland may have poor rainfall during May, apart
from moderate falls in the north and south coastal districts.
Light to moderate rain is likely in June, with good rains
above average in the southern half of the State during July.
The coastal areas of N.S.W. should receive moderate
rain in May, although rainfall may be poor elsewhere. Light
to moderate patchy rains are likely in June and may be
followed by moderate general rains in July. Well-distributed
rains should be received for the remainder of the year.
In Victoria light to moderate patchy rains, mainly
below normal, are likely during May, with moderately good
rains in June. Rainfall may again be p'oor in July, with
good rains starting in August.
The agricultural areas of South Australia should receive
reasonably good rains during May and good follow-on rains
in June, although rainfall may be poor in the interior.
Reasonably good rains should occur in the agricultural
areas of Western Australia during May, although rainfall
may be poor elsewhere. Moderate rain below normal should
continue during the winter.
LENNOX WALKER.


WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.
KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50ih Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
cent. Now it is almost the
only barley grown in W.A.,
and it’s being handled in bulk.
The first full cargo—lo,ooo
tons of Beecher —was loaded
into the Georgia Maru at
Albany at the end of March
for export to Japan, where
they import between 700,000
and 800,000 tons of barley a
year from the U.S.A., Canada
and Australia.
Until recently most of the
barley supplied by Australia
was shipped by the Australian
Barley Board from S.A., but
successful development of the
Beecher variety has now given
Westralia an increased share
of the trade. Gosaku Okada,
manager of Mitsubishi (Aust.)
Pty., Ltd., stated recently that
Beecher will be a favorite in
Japan, because of its quality
and price. It’s a white-kernel
variety, specially appreciated
in Japan as a substitute for
rice.
Beecher, a six-row barley, is
now grown in most of the
agricultural areas of the West,
but seems to do best in cooler
parts, such as the southern and
south-coastal districts.
Underground Water
“H.A.L.”: From pure
necessity, South Australia
leads in conservation and
reticulation of surface-water
and in locating and tapping
underground supplies by means
of wells and bores.
Most of the State has an
annual rainfall of less than
6in. ; one area around the
Lake Eyre basin has less than
sin. Only the country around
Birdsville (Q.) can compare
with this for aridity.
The S.A. Department of
Mines has specialised in the
search for, and utilisation of,
underground-water, and now
this long experience has been
made available in- Ground-
water Handbook, which may
be obtained from their Rundle
Street office P.O. Box 38,
Adelaide.
The book interestingly ex-
plains the origin of under-
ground-water and, with the aid
of diagrams, shows how and
where subterranean supplies
can be tapped by wells.
On water-divining (“dows-
ing”), experience gained by the
N.S.W. Water Conservation
and Irrigation Commission is
quoted, based on 2758 bores
sunk between 1918 and 1943.
Of the sites chosen by a man
with a forked stick or piece
of wire, 70.5 per cent, struck
water fresh enough for use;
with sites not chosen by a
diviner the same result was
achieved in 83.8 per cent, of
cases. This tallies closely with
data gathered in similar tests
in other parts of the world.
The chances of striking water
are actually less when a diviner
is employed!
There are chapters on the
sinking and lining of well-
shafts ; putting-down bores;
best types of pumping-equip-
ment ; how to handle supplies
struck in quicksand ; shutting
off salt-water; testing a
supply when struck ; and, most
important, dealing with
troubles likely to be en-
countered in sinking a bore.
The book notes that under-
ground supplies are not in-
exhaustible. If more water is
taken out than can find its
way into the storage, reduction
or depletion of the supply is
inevitable. Parts of the U.S.A.
have now reached the stage
where surface floodwaters are
being directed into under-
ground storages in an attempt
to replenish them.
Groundwater Handbook
might well save a landowner
a great deal of money and
time.
The Olive
“Myall”: The commercial
olive thrives in a variety of
climates, from Victoria, to
Southern Queensland, and can
resist both cold and drought ;
but, though it grows well along
the coastal belt, it rarely bears
fruit in those regions—inland,
it produces abundant crops. It
does well in any deep, well-
drained soil, but not in stiff,
clayey land, which becomes
waterlogged during the rainy
season.
The trees make excellent
hedges and windbreaks, with
the advantage of fine crops of
fruit. For these purposes plant
them 15ft. to 20ft. apart. In
a plantation space them 30ft.
apart, to allow room for
development. Being hardy,
they are also useful for street-
planting.
After the fruit is harvested
the trees should be pruned to
maintain a spherical, head, with
the branches thinned-out so
that air can circulate. The fruit
is borne on two-year-old wood,
so as much of this as possible
should be left growing.
Procure plantings from a
reliable nurseryman, who will
supply them true to type.
Seedlings cannot be depended
upon to produce heavy crops
of large fruit. Trees start
bearing when quite young, and
will produce good crops at six-
years.
The best varieties for oil-
yielding are Lucca and Correg-
golia ; for pickling, Black
Italian and Manzillo.
Grass-grub Control
“Billjim”: Now’s the time to
go over your property with a
spade, testing to see if any
grubs are present—they work
in the top few inches of the
soil.
Certainly, they are hard to
find in the autumn, but the
damage will have been done if
they’re left to winter and
spring, when they have attained
maximum size.
New Zealand has had
trouble with infestation of
pastures by grass-grubs, and
J. M. Kelsey, foremost N.Z.
authority on their control, con-
siders that lib. 100 per cent.
D.D.T. to an acre should be
applied as insurance against
attack, particularly when new
pastures are sown.
Once the grubs have
attacked, this application-rate
needs doubling, and, since the
amounts are small, the insecti-
cide needs mixing with a
carrier, either super, or lime.
Lime-D.D.T. mixture should
never be stored longer than
three months.
And see that mixing is
thorough, so that the con-
stituents fuse completely.
Some other insecticides are
almost as effective, notably
benzene-hexachloride, which
should be applied at lib. to 21b.
of 100 per cent, gamma-isomer
under the same conditions as
D.D.T. Perhaps D.D.T. is to
be preferred, because it gives
about two years’ protection
against both grass-grubs and
subterranean caterpillars, and
is safer to use and cheaper.
Dieldrin is another valuable
aid. At lib. an acre it gives
a quicker kill and lasts as long
in the soil for control of grass-
grubs, though it must be
applied yearly for caterpillars.
It is, however, more toxic than
D.D.T. to animals, and more
expensive.
Apart from new pastures,
which should have a dressing
as soon as seeded, probably the
best time to apply insecticide is
in the spring following sowing-
down of an autumn crop. On
older pastures regular applica-
tions are recommended.
Insecticides are best applied
when the pasture is dry and
closely grazed, and stock
should be kept off till heavy
rain has fallen.
Don’t apply fertiliser with
the insecticide through a drill
—it gives uneven coverage. A
shuffle-feed topdresser *is the
best thing to use for applica-
tion. Spraying the pasture is
not often successful, because
most of the insecticide clings to
the grass instead of penetrating
the soil.
To guard against the possi-
bility of killing bees, don't
apply insecticides to pastures
containing many clover- and
weed-flowers, especially if there
are apiaries in the vicinity.
The rates suggested won’t
kill every grub in the soil, but
they will reduce their activity,
and so are the most economical
applications for general use.


Divorce Notices
TO ALEXANDER AGNEW formerly of
Perth and Albany W.A. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife DARE AGNEW has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the grounds (1)
of entire failure during a period of three
years at least prior to the commence-
ment of the action to make periodical
payments of maintenance to her under
the terms of an Order of a competent
Court and (2) of separation for a con-
tinuous period of five years immedi-
ately preceding the commencement of
such proceedings. IP you desire to de-
fend such proceedings you must file
your defence in the Central Office of
the Supreme Court at Perth within
FORTY clear days from the date of this
publication In default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 27th day of February,
1959. —G. ,7. BOYLSON, Registrar.
COIiSER & CORSER, 36 and 39 Pad-
bury Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, in
the State of Western Australia, Soli-
citors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HELENA MAROSZEK late of Daisy-
Street Fairy Meadow. —TAKE NOTICE
that TADEUSZ MAROSZEK has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4360 of
1957 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Build-
ing Macquarie Street Sydney by 19th
June 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MOLLOY
& SCHRADER, Solicitors, of 149 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN,
Registrar.
Mozart in C, K. 465 a
lovely work, rather more
sombre than the usual Mozart
was notable for the
precision, exuberance and
“bite” of the opening session.
Appropriately enough, the
three Hungarian members of
the group recounted the
remaining work the Trio
Serenade, Op. 12, by their
compatriot Kodaly. They
pursued the opening and
closing movements with relent-
less vitality and pressure,
bordering at times on a note of
hysteria. Contention died down
with the slow middle section,
but never settled into the ex-
pected degree of tranquillity.
Members of the quartet
were: Otto Feld and Peter
Halmi (violins), Georg Szende
(viola), and Wladyslaw Przbyla
(’cello).
Artbursts
Invisible Art
If only because the lower
end of George Street, Sydney,
has old and cherished associ-
ations, The Bulletin man
thought that on no account
should he miss the opening of
the Museum of Modern Art at
No. 217 A. It is not far across
the road from where The
Bulletin itself lived years
ago ; it is midway between the
studio of that excellent water-
colorist Rah Fizelle and the
familiar Grosvenor Galleries,
now closed since the death of
Wal Taylor.
It is in that rich, romantic,
faintly grimy end of the town
sacred to disposal-shops,
Andronicus’s delightful coffee,
dreams, genius and lost causes.
Moreover, the invitation, for
some unexplained reason, came
from the Poetry Society of
Australia, and the speaker was
to be the poet Roland Robin-
son.
But this commentator, for
the obvious reason that people
talk to you instead of letting
you look at the pictures, never
goes to openings ; and, wander-
ing along a couple of days
late, found the exhibition some-
what disconcerting.
True, the introduction was
promising. There was a card-
board notice announcing the
times for yoga exercises, hang-
ing inside the front-door ; and
up from it reached the longest
flight of stairs this side of the
Eiffel Tower, stretching on and
up like a flight of pale-blue
ducks and calling to mind the
ancient Chinese poem:
A woman is a flight of steps
Leading to calamity.
On the first landing was a
Returning Officer, musically
counting aloud and presumably
stiff trying in vain to put Mr.
Cahill out of business. At the
second landing you turned left,
and another flight of steps flew
up to heaven —and the museum.
But the museum, when one
got there, was locked.
This was enchanting. It
suggested that the pictures
were perhaps so abstract as to
be invisible ;• and it was
strongly and appropriately
reminiscent of Paris, where all
the galleries are always closed
whenever you decide to visit
them.
It all comes of not reading
one’s invitation properly. There,
plainly stated in practically
invisible type at the bottom, is
the information that* gallery-
hours are from 1 p.m. to mid-
night on Saturdays and Sun-
days—a very useful time for
forlorn weekend visitors to the
city, as long as they don’t
start thinking it opens at
1 a.rn. Perhaps it would be as
well if the proprietors put up
an enormous notice, next to
the one about the yoga classes,
stating these times.
From secret and devious
sources one learns that the
pictures to be seen there —some
donated by the founder, Barry
Stern, and some on loan —are
by Passmore, Nolan, Gleeson,
Coburn, Kmit, Olsen, Miller,
Gleghorn, Plate, Fluke, Wake-
lin, Feurring, Judy Cassab and
Grace Cossington-Smith. They
should be worth the climb ;
but preferably when the door
is not locked.
*t 4
Royal Art Society
There is no doubt that the
N. S. Wales Royal Art Society
(Anthony Hordern’s) increas-
ingly becomes fusty and second-
rate : not because there is any-
thing wrong with trying to
paint Nature, as most of these
painters do, but because they
don’t paint it well enough: not
with fresh force and feeling ;
not with the fine edge of a
really excellent technique.
The exceptions, where you
do find both feeling and tech-
nique, include Garrett Kings-
ley's charming little nude,
G. K. Townshend's watercolor
“The Little White Cottage,”
Miriam Moxhead’s “Hilltop,”
Howard Ashton’s “Morning
Ramble” and, slight though it
is, Claudia Fofbes-Wood-
gate’s “To the Retreat,” John
Upton, J. R. Kirkland, Mollie
Flaxman and Peter Lindsay
also show some pleasant land-
scapes.
❖ ❖ ❖
A Primitive
Matilda Lister, the elderly
lady of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
who won the D’Arcy Morris
Memorial Prize in the recent
Blake competitions and who is
spoken of as an Australian
Grandma Moses, has quite a
bit of artistic ability, as her
“Hill End” landscape demon-
strates in her show at the Terry
Clune Galleries, King’s Cross.
Red hill and ragged scrub with
buildings dotted about, it has a
touch of Nolan and is all the
better for being compacted.
But as a whole, since she
aims to be a “primitive,” her
exhibition poses the question:
When does bad art become
good?
The answer is not quite as
simple as “Never.” When it
springs from the fresh outlook
of the child, when it has the
naivete of the primitive, then
it does become at least fresh
and amusing.
Mrs. Lister hasn't the wild
eye of the Douanier Rousseau ;
her pictures haven’t the crisp-
ness of Grandma Moses, who
picked up her tricks from
tapestry, Christmas-cards and
the old American prints. Some-
times, as in “Christ on the
way to Jerusalem” she does hit
the genuine note of naivete ;
but mostly she misses; and
so is best when she is really
trying to paint.
Films
“Gideon of Scotland Yard”
Jack Hawkins, always at his
best in roles demanding a
show of authority, dominates
this hectic-paced account of a
day in the life of a detective-
inspector at the Yard. Skilfully
mixing humor and drama,
scriptwriter E. E. B. Clarke has
constructed a set of exciting
episodes held together by the
cheerful trivialities of the
inspector’s domestic life.
Notable among the sharp
supporting vignettes are
Laurence Naismith’s psycho-
pathic murderer; Cyril
Cusack’s nerve-ridden stool-
pigeon ; and Miles Malleson’s
peppery judge.
At Sydney Lyceum.
♦> ❖ »>
“Kings Go Forth”
A French girl, loved by
Lieut. Frank Sinatra but loving
Sergeant Tony Curtis, is dis-
carded by the color-conscious
sarge when she tells him .her
father was a negro. The jilter
collects a German bullet
instead of the one the lieut.
threatened to put into him, and
the lieut. takes-over, amorously,
from where the sarge left-off.
Naturally there is heavy pad-
ding to allow the opus to drag
its slow length along for just
on two hours.
It also follows the pattern
—all too common in Holly-
wood war-films —of treating
the business of war as some-
thing incidental to the vastly
more important business of
love-making. And it has its
angry young man, railing not
at the futility and slaughter of
war but at his girl-friend’s
ancestry.
Sinatra, cast as a noble-
minded, self-effacing fellow,
does better than might have
been expected of one who up
till now has specialised in por-
traying the loud-mouthed lair.
Curtis is convincing enough as
the devil-may-care philanderer.
Natalie Wood's otherwise
effective performance is weak-
ened by her features and color
being completely at variance
with her self-confessed half-
caste state.
At Sydney Regent.


New Recordings
“The Emperor”
Coronet have excelled them-
selves: a new and brilliant
recording of. the Beethoven
“Emperor” Concerto, with
Eugene Istomin at the piano
and Eugene Ormandy conduct-
ing the Philadelphia Orchestra.
A while back this company
issued an “Emperor” which
had Robert Casadesus col-
laborating with Mitropoulos
and the New York Phil-
harmonic-Symphony Orchestra,
This version fell short of regal
glory on several counts.
First, while the soloist was
good, you never quite forgot
that his hands might slip
they do, too. Casadesus is one
of those pianists who are just
this side of the exalted state of
infallibility.
Then the orchestra: in the
slow movement there was an
unfortunate lag from the bass
section. But to revert: Coronet
have set things right.
Here is an “Emperor” which
pushes most others aside,
Against superb orchestral play-
ing—always strictly rhythmic,
yet with an added dimension of
what might be called “artistic
flexibility”—lstomin just sits
down and plays from his heart,
Whoever attached the nick-
name “Emperor” to this work
certainly knew what he was
about. It is a royal piece of
music in every way—pomp and
majesty in the first movement,
tapestried elegance in the
second, martial brilliance in the
final movement. While one may
n °t altogether agree with the
principle *of attaching name-
plates to music, in this case the
hue 1S a Pt 1 anc * Istomin recog-
nises, and plays, each section
its particular characteristics,
The work is perhaps too well
known to warrant clinical
investigation, but one must
note Istomin’s easy change
from double-octave thunder-
ings t 0 the gentlest of
pianissimos. In the difficult
thre e-against-two section of the
first moveme nt there is never
a f a j ter
. ’ ,
, for the ,?'?« movement
-> hat unparalleled model of
h y mn ‘ wntl “ g ~ the K ‘S'™
smoothness of the orches ra is
rlvalle , d th u e P lan ' st ? d .fi
cate ! bat not rivalled
so much has equalled, because
solois , t and .orchestra are m
complete unity throughout.
Those murderously break-
neck piano declamations at the
start of the final movement are
handled perfectly, and Isto-
min’s fire in the louder parts
makes you marvel that Beet-
hoven didn’t include a cadenza:
someone of Istomin’s calibre
could really make something
of it. But perhaps old Ludwig
was scared of amateurs.
Evergreens
Parlophone's Sing Song Time
No. 2 (GEPO 8708) has Dick
James leading an audience
through some of those old
evergreen tunes —things like
“I Do Like to be Beside the
Seaside,” “The Chestnut Tree,”
etc.
A p 1 o m p i n g Wurlitzer
accents the already heavily
accented beats; and there’s
hardly a pause between songs
—just a few virtuoso chords
on the organ to bring the
singers round to the new key.
In “You Are My Sunshine”
Mr. James takes advantage of
an off-beat to yell, “Let me
hear it!” They certainly iet
him. The reverse side opens
with “Bye Bye, Blackbird,” and
the same type of music prevails.
All terribly Brighton Pierish,
although there’s no denying
Mr. James’s loud-voiced vigor.
Just the thing to put some pep
into a church social.
*l* *** <+
Alma Cogan
Backed by Frank Cordell
and his orchestra on H.M.V.
OELP 5019, Alma Cogan is
one of those rare people—a
spirited and mostly clear-
voiced pop-singer.
Her first number, “I Love
to Sing,” is a lively bit of work,
with the orchestra in bounc-
ing form and with Miss Cogan
flicking her voice at half-
phrases like a whiplash. “Life
is Just a Bowl of Cherries” is
another fairly brisk number,
and “They Can’t Take That
Away From Me” shows that
if you take fast rhythm away
from Miss Cogan she can be
quite cool and thoughtful.
Maybe, in “Taking a Chance
on Love,” she overdoes it a
bit and just escapes a charge
of stridency, but “You Do
Something to Me,” with the
voice running like quicksilver
over spiky orchestral slidings,
is confidently handled.
On the second side she sings
“Today I Love Ev’rybody”
with such enormous gusto you
feel she mightn’t be kidding.
“Cheek to Cheek” impresses
more through its vigorous
orchestration than through the
voice-writing, which is singu-
larly uninspired. Of the
remaining few numbers, “Blue
Skies”—yes, the familiar tune
—is one of the most pleasant,
both from the viewpoint of
voice-clarity and well-managed
orchestral syncopations.
Miss Cogan’s first strength
is a kind of sunny sincerity,
which shines through and over
some of the ditties on this
record.
❖ *X* *l*
On H.M.V. 7 ERO 5098,
Gigli sings excerpts from
operas by Donizetti and
Puccini. Here is the g.o.m.
himself, in his own incompar-
able style—the long crescendo
note in “Quantp e bella”
(Donizetti) is a beautiful
example of his extraordinarily
supple voice strength. A
“must” for opera-lovers.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“Thank you, guide, you Were most helpful. If ever you come to Sydney we'll do the same for you”


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The inauguration of the Melbourne
University Building-fund by the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, was respon-
sible for a gathering of nearly 1000 guests
on Friday last, and considerable but
judiciously-planned hilarity on the part
of undergrads, and their friends. A gift
of £40,000 to the fund from G rim-
wade, who is patroness of the women’s
committee, was announced; it is ear-
marked for the biochemistry school.
A surprise-gift from the Governor and
Lady Brooks was also announced during
the ceremony. As well as giving a most
generous donation, the vice-regal couple
have also lent their patronage to the
two fund-committees. For the occasion
Lady Brooks wore a navy-wool coat-
frock with wide white revers, and a
matching hat with small flat bow. The
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. F. W. Thomas,
wore a frock of black wool which had
a boat - shaped neckline edged with
taffeta, and a small raspberry-red hat.
The official-party included the Univer-
sity Chancellor, Mr. Justice Dean, and
Mrs. Dean, Sir George and Lady Paton,
Sir Arthur and Lady Amies, and Profes-
sor E. S. Hills. Among the guests were
many who serve on committees connected
with the fund: Lady Selleck, Lady Mur-
dock, Mr. and Mrs. Bing Molyneux, Mrs.
David Derham. Also present were U.S.
Consul-General Graham Hall and Mrs.
Hall, Lieut.-General and Mrs. E. K.
Smart, and Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Gibson.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Returned Nurses’ Club is hoping
to enrol more members at the Anzac
Day reunions, and an SOS has gone out
to all eligible nurses, especially those who
served in World War II and the Korean
war. Membership has decreased greatly
because of the deaths of many of the
founders of the club, who were nurses
of World War I.
The membership drive is aimed at
bringing in all returned nurses of Navy,
Army and Air Force, physiotherapists
and Red Cross and Y.W.C.A. field-
officers in Victoria. Membership entitles
them to use the club in Anzac House,
where they may have lunch, and morning-
and afternoon-tea. They may also enter-
tain friends at the rooms, and hire the
rooms for parties, and married members
may take along husbands and families
to the club.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dame Pattie Menzies accompanied the
Prime Minister when he opened an
exhibition of paintings by Melbourne
surgeon E. T. Cato to aid the Royal
Women’s Hospital. Several members of
Mr. Cato’s family were at the exhibition,
his third in aid of the hospital. Mrs.
Lytton Stephens, a former president of
the hospital, and a sister of the artist,
was present, also her daughters, Mrs.
Hal Clapp and Mrs. Ellery Ryan, and
granddaughter Miss Susan Clapp. Other
interested viewers included Lady Selleck,
Mrs. G. A. Vasey, Mr. and Mrs. Michael
Hall and Lady McConnan.
There was also medical interest in the
exhibition of paintings on gumtree
themes by Helen Minchin, who is the wife
of Dr. Bridges Webb, of Heidelberg.
This was opened by well-known artist
Esther Paterson, and attended by a large
number of people who love the Aus-
tralian bush. They found in the paintings
an unusual touch of whimsy, which gave
an almost human personality to the
studies. These were done in pairs, and
carried such titles as “The Gossips,”
“Spinster and Red Hen,” and “Lady of
the Grampians.”
Georgina Shatin, whose family-name
of Small page has been closely connected
with W.A. since her grandparents settled
there, is a talented Melbourne artist
whose work is particularly well known in
Thailand, Burma and Indonesia, as
several members of Consular staffs and
their wives have had their portraits
painted by her.
She is the wife of Dr. Ray Sha tin, and
their Elwood home has been the centre
of many delightful parties, such as the
one they gave last week so that fellow-
members of the Australian-Asian Asso-
ciation could meet Djakarta journalist
Mr. Sanjoto Sastromihardjo, who is tour-
ing Australia in a party arranged by
the Commonwealth Government. The
Consul for Thailand, Mr. Henry Fader,
and Mrs. Fader were among the guests,
also Colonel Basoeki Rachmad, Dr. Song
Tjoe Gie and Mr. Joesoef Koesoe-
mawiria, Chief of the Chancellory of
Indonesia. Mrs. Grant Major, wife of
the Canadian Counsellor, was another
guest who kept the conversation bright
and sparkling, along with Dr. and Mrs.
Dunlop, Mr. and Mrs. Syd Mitchell and
Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Clark—he is presi-
dent of the association, and she heads its
ladies-auxiliary. John Warlow photo.
For her wedding with Mr. Rex C.
Dunn on Thursday at Wesley Church,
Lady Myer wore a smoke-blue organdie
frock, embroidered with blue, and car-
ried a bouquet of white orchids and
lily-of-the-valley. Her satin shoes
matched her frock, and tiny grey-velvet
flowers formed her small hat. Only the
bride’s immediate family and a few
friends were present. They included her
father, Mr, Louis Sallmann (who gave
her away), her mother, her 94-year-old
grandmother, Mrs. W. Todd, and her
brother and sister-in-law, Mr. and Mrs.
Louis Sallmann, jnr., who were best man
and matron-of-honor respectively. Guests
included Sir Norman and Lady Martin,
Cr. and Mrs. Bernard Evans, Mr. and
Mrs. Morris Sallmann, Mr. Walter Sall-
mann, of Dimboola, and American
friends of the bridegroom, Mr. and Mrs.
Barry Speilman, Mr. and Mrs. Dan
Trapp, and Mr. Tom Cressler. Mr. and
Mrs. Dunn, after a champagne luncheon
at Menzies’ Hotel, left by air for Tas-
mania, where they will spend a brief
honeymoon.
☆ ☆ ☆
Although the skies were grey the
charming garden at the Toorak home of
Mrs. Wallis Tresise lured many guests
into an exploration of it before settling-
down to the champagne - luncheon
organised to help the funds of the Alfred
Hospital's development - appeal. Bowls
of hydrangea and autumn - foliage
decorated the hall and lounges, and
gaily-colored umbrellas gave a cheerful
note to the tables set around the grounds.
Among the guests were Mrs. Buchanan,
Mrs. Reichstein, Mrs. Charles Davidson
and Mrs. George Laurens. On duty
welcoming arrivals were Mrs. Ronald
Nott and Mrs. St. George Curwen, the
former having been much missed from
the local scene lately through ill-health ;
Mrs. Eric Avery (her husband is chair-
man of the appeal), Lady Coles, vice-
president, and Mrs. F. Wilson, treasurer.
* * *
A highlight of the Soup-’n-Sherry party
arranged by the Junior Australian-
American Association at their club-
rooms was a hat-parade, when models
of “My Fair Lady” hats were inter-
spersed with some of the craziest and
uninhibited styles ever thought-up just
for fun by leading Melbourne designers.
They were worn by association-members
Jan Newman, Adrienne Lever, Carol
Green, Dianne Rogers, Judy Gundill and
Morva Bennett (the latter just returned
from an overseas trip). Beverley Cope
did an excellent job as parade-compere.
* # *
More than £l5OO was raised at the bar-
becue and garden-party of the Italian


auxiliary to the Royal Children’s Hos-
pital, which was held at the country home
of Mr. Mario Vigano and Mrs. Vigano,
who is auxiliary-president. Guests
included Lady Mayoress Mrs. F. W.
Thomas, Italian Ambassador Dr. Prato,
Lady Murdoch (she is president of the
hospital-committee), Mrs. G. R. Nicholas,
Lady Tait, Mrs. W. S. Galbally, and Dr.
Kathleen Galbally, who was responsible
for good solid work on the organising
side.
Also deserving of high praise for their
spirited efforts were the Vigano family.
All the food and drink was supplied as
a gift from Mario’s restaurant. Mr.
Ferdi Vigano cooked more than 400 grills
himself (his wife helping him).
SYDNEY
With the entrance of autumn all fresh
and smiling to the stage (summer rushed
on for a last short bow —a real diehard,
that old Sydney summer) Sydney took-
off to Warwick Farm for the polo or
the Nepean for the Head of the River,
according to age as much as inclination,
or went, in very large crowds, to the Dr.
Billy Graham Crusade.
V- V #
Good news for the city was that the
Fountains Committee is really on the
job, and that designs in the competition
being conducted by the Sydney City
Council will be shown publicly from
August 5 to 18 at David Jones’. Sites
for the fountains are Fitzroy Gardens
(King’s Cross), Hyde Park (to com-
memorate Sydney’s first water-supply),
and Queen’s Square. Prizes are being
awarded for the design of these, and
another fountain, to be set-up in the
Elizabeth Street extension near Qantas
building, has been presented by Mr.
Adolph Basser.
☆ ☆ ☆
The social event of the week was the
wedding of Caroline Fairfax to Phillip
Simpson, son of Mr. and Mrs. Telford
Simpson, at All Saints’ Church, Wool-
lahra. Caroline is the daughter of Mr.
Warwick Fairfax and Mrs. Elizabeth
Fairfax, who came here from England
for the wedding bringing her 11-year-
old son, Edward Gilly, who acted as
senior page. The bridegroom’s nephew,
Richard Simpson (aged 7), was the other
page, and the bride’s half-sister Annalisa
Fairfax the flower-girl. The bridesmaids
were Mrs. Peter Playfair and Prue Bavin.
There was a family-lunch at the home
of Lady Fairfax after the wedding, and
a formal reception for 320 people in the
evening at the home of Mr. Warwick
Fairfax, Barford, Bellevue Hill.
V V V
Theatre-news included the opening of
the Cilli Wang (pronounced Silli Vung)
show at the Royal, an evening glittering
with well-known members of Sydney’s
theatrical profession who had come to
see this clever and lovable little clown.
An interesting fact about Cilli, who is
Viennese by birth, is that before World
War II she toured with Erika Mann,
daughter of the writer, Thomas Mann,
in a literary and political cabaret. She
speaks of the great writer as “a second
father, who used to laugh very much at
my jokes.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Also seen during the week was a gay
performance by the Gilbert and Sullivan
Society of “lolanthe” at the Conserva-
torium. It was noted for the truly mag-
nificent Queen of the Fairies, played by
Mary Blake, the sweet singing of her
fairy followers, the nimble dancing of
Noel Pelly as the Lord Chancellor, and
the light-hearted comedy of John Wirth
and Leslie Andrews as the two Earls.
Apart from a tendency of the singers
to race ahead of the orchestra, the pro-
duction generally was a delight. Evelyn
Gardiner was responsible for its polish
and high standard.
Catherine Richardson, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. J. Richardson, of Curra-
widgee, Trangie, will marry John Mox-
ham at the chapel of her old school,
Presbyterian Ladies' College, Pyinble, on
June 1. Her bridesmaids will be Mary
Macdonald {Harden), Anne Hudson
( Cooma ), and Adrienne Hill ( Quirindi ),
and the reception will be held at the
Woollahra Golf Club. John is the son
of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Moxham, of
Mullengudgery (N.S.W.), where the young
couple will make their home. Photo by
Norton Trevaire.
Adventures are certainly to the adven-
turous, as Mrs. Charles Chauvel’s talk
at the literary-luncheon in aid of the
N.S.W. Society for Crippled Children
showed during the week. Film-making
with her husband has brought her adven-
tures ranging from tempests at Pitcairn
Island to being held-up by gipsies on
the road to Canberra, and her descrip-
tions of them are equally lively. Mrs.
Chauvel was welcomed at the luncheon
by Lady Coles, Mrs. Vernon Treatt and
Mr. Roger Fitzhardinge.
More than a touch of originality will
mark the Mater Hospital Ball at the
Trocadero on June 10. It is to take the
form of a reception followed by dancing,
and all the tables will be arranged as
official tables are usually—that is, with
chairs facing the dance-floor. This will
undoubtedly give a freer atmosphere and
more interest for the non-dancers. It is
called “The Minuet Ball,” and nurses
from the hospital will dance the minuet
during the evening. The president, Mrs.
Tom Bateman, will welcome the guests-
of-honor, the Governor and Lady Wood-
ward.
+ * *
Mr. Frank A. Waring, the Consul-
General for the U.S., was guest-speaker
at the 78th annual meeting of the Royal
Blind Society, which was held during
the week. About 200 guests were enter-
tained at afternoon-tea after the meeting
in the beautifully-decorated lower hall
at the society’s headquarters in William
Street. It was the last official function
of the director, Mr. Kenneth R. Bunn,
before his departure on April 29 for the
U.S., Canada and the U.K., where he
will study the latest developments in
welfare for the blind before arriving in
Rome for the conference of the World
Council or the Blind.
The following evening a parade of ski-
fashions, “Invitation to the Snow,” was
held by the Black and White Ball com-
mittee at the Hotel Australia in aid of
the Royal Blind Society. The lovely
young models who gave their services
free were Mrs. David Boyce, Mrs. Alec
Shand (formerly Lorraine Pritchard),
brunette Gaynor Faviell and Diana
Gregory. Ski-instructor Brian Davidson
(who is a Bondi beach-inspector during
the summer) gave some helpful hints on
how to ski successfully, and about 180
guests enjoyed a really smart affair.
V V V
The Phillip-street Theatre will celebrate
its fifth birthday on Tuesday, May 5,
and is presenting an intimate revue, “The
Birthday Show,” in honor of the occa-
sion. “The Birthday Show” will star the
best items from past revues, and those
taking part in it will be Lyle O’Hara,
Jill Perryman, Alton Harvey, John
Bluthal and Ronald Frazer.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Bush Book Club, which holds
its 49th and final meeting this week,
thoughtfully suggests that these other
organisations will be pleased to receive
gifts of books and magazines: the Red
Cross Society, which would like books
for adults or children and illustrated
magazines and periodicals, the Chil-
dren’s Library and Craft Movement,
which especially needs children's books
in good condition; the Big Brother
Movement, which will be glad to have
good magazines for its waiting-room, or
books for youths from 15 to 20 years ;
and The Mission to Seamen, which would
take books or magazines suitable for men.


status by flattening the leading bully.
Good-natured and observant, he makes
each individual member of the crew
live as vividly as he does the ship, both
in their miseries and misfortunes and
their happinesses and debaucheries.
They gloried in the tall ship’s magnifi-
cent performance in every sort of
weather as if they owned it.
Another sea-tale of a different order
is The Voyage of the Lucky Dragon,
a Penguin Special. Ralph E. Lapp is
an American journalist who investi-
gated the case of the Jap trawler
Fukuryu Maru, which was returning
to Japan in 1954 with the season’s
catch when it was caught in the fall-out
from the H-bomb exploded on Bikini
atoll.
The first thing the crew noticed was
a blinding white flash, for which they
gave various explanations; the second
was an ash which covered the ship and
all the people on it. A few days later
their hair began to fall out, and soon
there were others and more sinister
manifestations. Then the radio-
operator remembered something he
had read about the after-effects of the
atom-bomb on the people of Hiro-
shima.
It was a badly frightened crew of
fishermen who met the crowd of press-
men who swarmed on to the Lucky
Dragon when it reached its home port,
and it was a badly frightened nation
which learnt a few days later that not
only the crew but the catch of the
Lucky Dragon was radioactive. Fish
is the Japanese staff-of-life, and when
the geiger-counters were brought to
bear on the catch they rattled like
machine-guns.
For a while the plight of the human
victims was overshadowed by this blow
to the economy of the nation. One
man died, some recovered and some
have joined the ranks of the Hiro-
shimans who have been permanently
disfigured.
A companion volume is Hiroshima,
the account of the dropping of the first
bomb in 1945 and the after-effects
thereof, written by John Hersey and
published in 1946 in the “New Yorker.”
If any Penguin reader finds these two
volumes too depressing an exposure of
the folly and stupidity of human-
beings and their governments he can
cheer himself up by reading Plutarch’s
Roman Lives in a new translation by
Rex Warner. The lives selected are
those of six of the great proconsuls
who presided over the affairs of the
Roman citizen during the last days of
the Republic.
On the evidence of Plutarch, who
was a Greek and therefore a member
of a race which Rome had subjugated,
they were a weird mob.
They were all ambitious, avaricious
and self-seeking. Some were half-
witted and some sadistic.
Somebody has said that no Roman
ever died for an idea, and certainly
none of these did, though they were
all uniformly courageous. Revenge
with a Roman was a virtue, and they
massacred whole populations to wipe
out an insult. They inflicted extra-
ordinary sufferings on their adoring
subjects, palming them off with games
and spectacles in which thousands of
gladiators cheerfully ministered to their
glory by murdering one another in
the most painful fashion.
They all made enormous fortunes by
bribery, corruption, business, robbery,
etc., and were highly respected for it.
The only member of this glorious
hierarchy of tyrants who showed any
trace of spirituality or human feeling
was Julius Caesar, and he was
assassinated by envious rivals. Yet
during their regime Rome rose to its
greatest heights of power and glory,
and if the Roman man-in-the-street
had been told that he wasn’t living
under the most beneficent, just,
virtuous, kindly and omniscient gov-
ernment that had ever existed he would
have been astonished; and if he had
refused to go forth and die in Parthia,
Egypt, Spain or Britain defending the
Roman way of life against the barbar-
ous savages of those parts he would
have felt intensely guilty.
Five titles by Hilaire Belloc, five by
G. K. Chesterton and Montaigne’s
Essays in a new translation by J. M.
Cohen are also included in the latest
batch of Penguins. Belloc and Ches-
terton are beginning to seem dated—
Montaigne isn’t.
F.S.
Stories by Rilke
Two little books by the German poet
Rainer Maria Rilke, who died in 1926
from the scratch of a rose-thorn, have
been published simultaneously in
English translations: The Cornet (Win-
gate), translated by Constantine Fitz-
Gibbon, and Ewald Tragy (Vision),
translated by Lola Gruenthal.
“The Cornet,” written when Rilke
was 23, was first published seven years
later, in 1906. It caught the public
taste much more than Rilke’s poetry
was ever to do, and by 1914 had sold
40,000 copies. The publishers, on the
strength of these war-year sales-figures
and the military theme of the story,
make a comparison with Rupert
Brooke; but the mood of it is much
more like Ernest Dowson —wine and
roses.
It is the slightest of stories, written
in an impressionistic style. An 18-
year-old Cornet Rilke, a twig from
the poet’s family-tree, is riding to fight
the Turks in Hungary in the 17th
century. He talks to a young French
soldier about his mother, and the
Frenchman gives him a rose-petal.
Then he has a night of love with
some mysterious aristocratic lady in a
castle. The castle catches fire and,
clutching the burning regimental colors,
the young officer rides out to die in
battle:—
All is clamor, but those are not
bird-voices. It is the rafters blazing,
the windows that whistle and screech.
They screech redly at the enemy, the
enemy out there in the flaming land,
and the cry is: “Fire!”
Their faces still marked by the
sleep from which they are torn, they
stumble forth, half iron and half
naked, from room to room, from
floor to floor, where are the stairs?
And down in the courtyard desperate
lungs blow blasts through bugles.
“Rally, rally!” And the drums are
rolling.
Rilke, who hated war, resented the
popularity which this little piece
acquired; and rightly enough, for
though it may have been written as a
picture of the pathos of war, its senti-
mental mysticism of roses and blood
and death was dangerous reading for
the Germans.
“Ewald Tragy,” now available for
the first time in English, is a much
more solid piece of work.
Obviously autobiographical, it is a
picture of the young Rilke in a pro-
vincial town, oppressed by his father
and his aunts and yearning for escape
to Munich. It might well have stopped
at the point where he leaves for
Munich, for his vague and sensitive
sufferings in the city are old stuff and
do not make much of a story; but the
early parts—the picture of the well-
meaning but obtuse father snatching
the youth’s hat off to dust it in the
public street; and, particularly, a fear-
ful family dinner—are very richly and
amusingly described.
Bulldozer Booklet
A Red Page review of David Row-
botham’s poetry (25/3/’59) by “D. 5.,”
when dealing with “off-rhyme,” brings
in my Bulldozer Booklet No. 4: Carols
of Cant and Wont; yet this booklet,
published and distributed privately,
was not sent as to an editor but to
“D.S.” by name, in an envelope
marked “personal,” and itself states at
the outset that “copies are not available
for review.” His side-stepping of those
precautions shows that I was wrong in
expecting a reviewer to have scruples
like those that discourage as unethical
doubtful practices in other professions.
This may seem petty unless I give the
reasons for my precautions, which


were meant to exclude misrepresenta-
tion such as works of mine have
suffered in the past —as on the Red
Page on several occasions during its
present regime. I refer not to opinions
of merits or defects (though the years
have taught me that those are generally
not worth inviting) but actual mis-
representation of plain substance. I
would willingly give details, but the
present instance, though slighter,
provides an illustration.
In “Carols of Cant and Wont” I
adopted no serious vein, but merely
amused myself laughing at some things
I think silly, using “off-rhymes” to add
to the ludicrous effect. The item to
which “D.S.” refers, namely “Indica-
tions for a New Rhyming Dictionary,”
is obviously a peace. of humorous
sarcasm, with not the faintest trace of
anger, yet “D.S.” says that in it the
subject is “discussed with some heat”!
He is the third of our poets whom
I have found defending only some but
not all and not the same kinds of
“off-rhyme.” Thus one poet’s rhyme
is another poet’s earache, one sort
being as good as any other if Mr.
Rowbotham or any other poet likes
it; for the pretence that there is any
demonstrable criterion apart from what
traditional rhyming provides is mere
gobbledegook. That is why, far from
being at all heated about “off-rhymes,”
I merely made fun of them as of other
current fashions. Frederick T.
Macartney.
[When an author sends his book to a
book-reviewer, the reviewer naturally
assumes that the author would like him
to review it: that is the explanation of
my “doubtful practices,” etc. —Douglas
Stewart.]
Reviewed Briefly
The Widower: Van Siller (Ham-
mond). Met at the station by the
beautiful widow who has settled in the
neighborhood, and told that he will
find his wife at home, shot dead, the
hero-architect can make nothing of it.
But as he goes on living, with his
children and his sister-in-law, the
neighbors begin Saying Things about
his association with the beautiful
widow. The story is quite well told,
and develops the suspicion that the
wife has not killed herself, but been
murdered, while the solution proves
highly surprising and embarrassing to
the neighbors, as good solutions should
* * * *
Call the Doctor: E. S. Turner
(Michael Joseph). An easy-to-read yet
scholarly and comprehensive study of
the doctor’s place in the community
from Chaucer’s day to Aneurin
Bevan’s. Some of the details in the
earlier chapters (for -example, Charles
ll’s five last days of torture at the
hands of over a dozen physicians) are
on the grisly side. Turner’s research is
thorough, even to the technique of
snatching bodies from their coffins.
Despite the shortcomings of the pro-
fession and the errors, often inexcus-
able, of its practitioners, he never
debunks. A fascinating book to dip
into if your stomach’s not easily
turned. Here’s a quotation with a
moral for early-to-bed cricketers: “One
who had need of many locums was
Dr. W. G. Grace, who was a parish
doctor in Bristol in the ’seventies. His
practice was not wholly forgotten on
the cricket field. It is said that during
a match in which he made two cen-
turies he sat up all night with a poor
woman whom he had promised to
attend while in her labor.”
* * * *
We Joined the Navy: John Winton
(Michael Joseph). A first book but
polished, witty and professional. It
concerns a batch of Special Entry (i.e.,
18-year-old) cadets, from Admiralty
Interview Board to passing-out. By
the sureness of the author’s touch his
experience clearly extends beyond this
brief period. The Dartmouth scenes
are the best. When they go to sea (in
a training-cruiser) the author has to
fall back on contrivance and fantasy
to stimulate interest and is too
facetious. But the character-sketches
of R.N. types are lively.
VARIOUS VERSE
CINCINNATUS
One autumn when the sea came pouring
In shell-shaped waves across the still
And waiting shore, and the wind was
roaring
In the ears of the trees on the hill,
I saw the idiot boy that walks
And talks to the trees on his either side,
Standing between the oak-tree forks
Where bright leaves writhe and ride.
I brought him down with my hands’ white
wave,
Down to share in the heart of my fire,
And he sat silent as the grave,
And dried his boots that steamed with
mire.
And while the storm was foaming round
The corner where the screech-wind sings,
We sat apart without a sound,
And were the world’s most silent things.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.
JOURNEY INTO SPACE
. . . then after many false lures of Utopia
came to rest on a planet heavily peopled
and richly flavored by a constant sun;
harvests of land and sea
generously spilt, were gathered with ease.
We noted a post-mechanised phase of
existence
and no evident sign of a belief in gods,
and quickly took our path through
planned suburbs
and in cities empty of men-
placed our ears to closed doors.
It was as we had guessed.
Conspiracies grew as darkness fell;
each voice dealt quiet hostilities.
Some of us admired their arts —
forms and devices of intricate cunning
though without a recognisable logic.
So leaving behind us greetings in many
ciphers
we took ship for another galaxy ;
but looking back, saw how annihilation
used new means in the heart of a desert
and spoke once;
how buildings walked
and everywhere arms went up
to the skies we had emptily charted.
It was the same story,
always with the end we knew so well,
and we pursued our course through the
coils of space,
having entered this in our log:
“Here is waste and a world unpeopled—
unfit for further habitation.”
S.A.
PAUL HAEFFNER.
THE FATE OF DESDEMONA
Supposing that lago’s limbs had lain
With Desdemona, taking from her flesh
Revenge for his environment and youth
And pleasuring in her midnight pain,
How could Othello ascertain the truth?.
Suppose that Desdemona in the sheets
Had curved her mouth in pain, but known
the heart
Stir exultation underneath her breast,
Because lago, spurning feats
Of bravery, could yet devote the best
Part of his life to hatred and to love,
Whereas Othello in his lonely pride
Could only yield erotic words and limbs ;
And could the playwright only move
Out from his preconceptions and his
whims
To see Othello as a tragic tower
That rose above the spinning world
alone —
The irrevocably separated man —
So that his famed and vaunted power
Could light the tragic routine that began
When Adam reached out for the yielding
hand
To learn of absence for a first cold time
And strode the circuit of his loneliness
Until her calm return, the land
Taunting his solitude, his small address:
Then might not tragedy achieve its goal,
Showing the final passion of the soul?
Vic.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


When all is said and done ...
YOU
GO
BEST
WITH
/>
1
TCMJJJ
Ok
\
r*
■■ ' /
THE WORLD'S BEST
FUEL IMPROVER
BP
SUPER/®
SUPER R SIANOARO
C R
IBP
StSUPEB
COR
BP SUPER & C.O.R THE ONLY PETROLS CONTAINING BENZOL
AT ALL BP/C.O.R SERVICE STATIONS
Make sure you get the
improved power and
performance which only
Benzol gives. Benzol
is available only in BP
Super and C.O.R petrols,
at BP/C.O.R service
stations everywhere.
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
formerly The Commonwealth
Oil Refineries Limited
J/C763
