

The Bulletin
A Letter from the Cote d’ Azur—f age u
Wednesday, June 10, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
St- * r>
llejfistorcil in Australia for transmission by post: as a newspaper.
"I don't understand you . My owner is a New Australian."


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
CAVE-PAINTINGS
Lascaux, a Pelican by Annette
Laming describing the cave-paintings
recently discovered in the cave of that
name, immediately made me think of
Percy Leason, the onetime “Bulletin”
cartoonist: he had a theory about them;
or, rather, about the similar paintings
in the caves of Altamira.
Various theories were extant regard-
ing the origin and meaning of these
drawings. One was that the caves
were not dwelling-places but natural
temples and that the carvings, draw-
ings and paintings with which the walls
were covered were objects of ritual
worship; another was that they were
representations of sacred totem-
animals which could not be killed or
eaten, as with the Australian
aboriginal. Still another was that they
were manifestations of the cult of
sympathetic magic you painted a
deer, a bison, a mammoth or a wild
horse with a spear in its inside and
straightway the deer or mammoth fell
dead and could be eaten ... in short,
you boned the creature.
As well as being a cartoonist, Leason
was a competent painter, and he
wasn’t satisfied with any of these
explanations. He had the most remark-
able pair of eyes of any human-being
I have known. They could, at will,
become photographic or impression-
istic. If a new-model motorcar flashed
by him in the street he would con-
centrate on it until it had vanished
round the corner and next week it
would appear in a cartoon, accurate to
the rear bumper-bar; but there was
one thing he couldn’t see and he
doubted if anybody else could—the
way a horse’s or a deer’s legs went
at top speed, which the prehistoric
artists seemed to be able to do quite
easily.
After contemplating the problem for
a long time he came to the conclusion
that the animals the primitive artist
painted were not live ’uns but dead
’uns. The successful hunter brought
home his kill and flung it on the
ground at the foot of the cliff, half-
way up which the cave was. situated.
The primitive artist came to the
mouth of the cave and, looking down,
got an eyeful of his subject-matter,
rushed back, and, with his simple but
adequate apparatus, transferred the
impression thus gained onto his rocky
canvas.
The lifelike appearance of the limbs
of running animals Leason explained
as an accident of rigor mortis.
Obsessed with this theory, he haunted
abattoirs, butchers’ shops and other
places where defunct animals could
be studied, and finally he induced that
great hunter, Dr. John Dale, the Mel-
bourne City health-officer, to shoot a
deer for him in Gippsland which he
photographed from the lower branches
of a gumtree.
The position of the deer’s legs didn’t
seem to me to quite fit into Leason’s
theory; but then, I am a poor observer.
However, he wrote a brilliant thesis
and posted it off to the famous Abbe
Breuil, the eminent authority on
palseolithic art who is now in charge
of Lascaux. As the abbe’s whole life-
work depended on a different theory,
it is not surprising that Leason heard
no more about it.
After looking at the reproductions
of the Lascaux paintings in the
Pelican volume one is forced to the
conclusion that none of the various
explanations fit all the facts. When
the paleolithic artist painted his giant
bulls, ibexes, rhinoceroses, horses,
swimming deer, bears and mammoths
on the walls of Lascaux religious awe,
art for art’s sake, or the desire for a
full stomach may have been his
inspiration as with the Blake Prize
contestants; but, if so, how comes it
that he was able to make them so
astonishingly realistic? In fact, the
palaeolithic artist has been so true to
his impression that his paintings have
been of great assistance to the
palaeontologist in pinpointing to a
thousand years or so changes in the
structure of extinct animals and other
puzzling questions. How did he
develop a skill and a power of pene-
tration which are comparable to a
Titian’s or a Rembrandt’s? Nobody
knows; but that he did is startlingly
evidenced by these new discoveries at
Lascaux which were accidentally
stumbled on by two small boys.
Other interesting items in a recent
Penguin budget are Where Angels
Fear to Tread by the urbane E. M.
Forster; Kathleen Ferrier, a biography
of the famous singer by her sister and
our old friend Neville Cardus; Rela-
tivity for the Layman by J. A. Cole-
man, which is best left to the expert;
French Country Cooking by Elizabeth
David, which should be in the hands
of every housewife; and Against
Nature, Huysman’s study of the
neurotic which shocked Wilde.
M.G.S.
Nabokov Stories
Perhaps because they were origin-
ally written in different countries and
languages over a 26-year period, the
13 stories in Nabokov’s Dozen by the
author of banned “Lolita” show an
almost bewildering variety of style,
method and theme. But through the
variety the author shows one of the
marks of an important writer: the
ability to create a world of his own,
one that can only be described with
his name.
It is a world of memory, of lost
incidents and people recalled with an
almost obsessive intensity. There is the
Russia of his childhood (he describes
two of the stories as straight auto-
biography), the emigre’s Europe of the
’thirties, and the America of the
present. In one story he even uses the
device of the childhood memory to
comment on present-day America, by
having an old man looking back on
it from the 21st century.
In this way his world —and some-
times his style also —is somewhat
Proustian; and he has a Proustian
interest in the process of remembering,
which in two stories he makes an
important part of his narrative method.
But the Proustian flavor is not really
so very pronounced. Nabokov’s special
mark seems to be the ability to mix
with almost any other mood a peculiar
humor—now wry, now deprecating—
and an acute verbal wit (astonishing
in a writer who, like Conrad, adopted
English rather late in life). Four of
the stories are more-or-less conven-
tional in form and tone, and, con-
sidered purely as stories, these come
off a bit better than the more original
and striking ones, in which a novelist’s
richness of detail and reminiscent
asides tends to break that singleness
of direction which a story needs for
complete success.
People and Places
If it were not for the fact that he
gets so much profit out of both, one
would think that lan Mudie would do
well to abandon free-verse and the
satirical, sociological approach to
poetry he makes in The Blue Crane
(Angus and Robertson); for these ways
of writing, in combination, are robbing
him of much of the solidity, in form
and in thought, that makes the highest,
most memorable kind of poetry.
The trouble with free-verse is that,
unless it falls into a regular rhythmical
pattern (as Mudie’s sometimes does
and sometimes does not) it is just not
poetry. It is prose. As such it may
look fresh and vigorous enough,
especially when it is new; but it is still
not poetiy.
A minor trouble with Mudie’s
sociological approach, when he is
being a professional Australian, is
that sometimes he is naive: it is em-
barrassing, at this stage of our civilisa-
tion, to be addressed by a poet as
“Mate” —“Can you hear the rain.
(Continued on page 55)


INTERNATIONAL Prime-Movers
for High-Performance Low Loader Power!
INTERNATIONAL RF-I9S
Experienced, profit-conscious operators select from
FOUR MIGHTY UNITS
INTERNATIONAL AA-182
Men who base their judgment on cost records and
a lifelong knowledge of motor trucks are selecting
from these four big extra-heavy duty International
prime-movers. They have acknowledged and wel-
comed the all-round soundness of International Truck
design chassis, axles, engines, cabs - all planned
and built exactly to suit the needs of the Australian
haulage operators.
Why not call at once on your nearest International
Harvester Dealer or IH Sales Office for all the facts
on these high-performance haulers.
INTERNATIONAL R-192
INTERNATIONAL AA-182
148 Rated Horsepower at 3800 r.p.m.
INTERNATIONAL AAT-182
148 Rated Horsepower at 3800 r.p.m.
TandemTrac Model.
INTERNATIONAL R-192
165 Rated Horsepower at 3200 r.p.m. Petrol
Model.
160 Rated Horsepower at 2500 r.p.m. Diesel
model available.
INTERNATIONAL RF-195
182 Rated Horsepower at 3000 r.p.m. Petrol
model.
175 Rated Horsepower at 2500 r.p.m. Diesel
model available.
INTERNATIONAL Extra-Heavy-Duty TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT-330/36


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 10, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4139
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252 J; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
A delaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth..
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
RETREAT TO THE JUNGLE
A/fIDNIGHT on June 1 marked the
*** end of a long history of British
enterprise on the island of Singapore,
the “City of the LiQn,” with the
handing-over of the great metropolis,
which has cost the British people so
much blood and tears in recent years,
to the newly-elected Leftist Govern-
ment.
It is a tragic irony that this Gov-
ernment should be dominated by
Chinese.
The British did not seize the island
from busy cultivators or a thriving
commercial community of indignant
native inhabitants. It was the haunt of
the mosquito and the tiger and snake,
little frequented save by fishermen and
robbers. Sir Stanford Raffles founded
his trading settlement there in 1819,
leasing a factory-site for the East India
Company from the Sultan of Johore
and the Dato Temenggong, the chief-
tain of the island, which was ceded
entire to the company in 1824, the
locaL owners being glad to get rid
of it to somebody who would control
the bandits and the tigers.
Under British rule and in British
peace it has become the focus of
civilisation in Malaya. British sea-
trade and the rubber imported by
British enterprise and developed by
British genius emanating from Kew,
and tin developed by British and Aus-
tralian companies and engineers, have
made the Malay Peninsula into a pros-
perous region, with civilised laws and
education and a chance for the under-
dog.
The native population has had little
ground for complaint, and indeed has
shown little tendency to complain.
Relationship with the Malays has
always been good, except when it has
been disturbed by the agitations of
the Communists and the flapper-press
of Britain, the United States and Aus-
tralia, which seem all too ready to mire
their own nests and to take the part of
any influence which attacks their own
system.
It is curious to reflect that all the
talk of “colonialism,” all the cries for
the assertion of native rights and all
the abuse of the British have stemmed
from immigrant Asiatic elements
foreign to Malaya—of the type which
have always rushed for shelter under
the wing of the Royal Navy and built
their prosperity as a community out of
British trade.
TN Singapore there are only about
150.000 Malays and a million or
more Chinese, plus about 100,000
Indians. These two lastmentioned
elements have always been the entre-
preneurs of local discontent, the
preachers of “anti-colonialism,” . the
founts of disturbance and Communist
activity and the breeders of hate and
violence directed against the source of
their freedoms and their generous
educational and civic systems.
There would have been no Com-
munist banditry if it had .not been for
the agitation by Chinese and, to a
lesser extent, the Tamils; no wild and
murderous agitations for . “freedom”
and self-government, largely imple-
mented by infiltrated Reds from
China to whom “freedom” means the
opportunity to suck this rich source of
basic materials behind the Iron
Curtain and to betray the inhabitants.
The island of Singapore is a separate
entity from the Federation of Malaya.
It has been handed over by the elections
to the Left-wing People’s Action Party.
This is a polite name for the Com-
munist vanguard headed by a Chinese,
with an accretion of parlor-pink and
misguided elements who smugly believe
that they can control the inner circle
of extremists, a belief in which they
will soon be disillusioned.
The new Government agreed to
carry on only on the release of six
interned extremist leaders. The new
Governmental heads probably consider
themselves merely the trustees for
whatever and whomever these internees
represent, and that once independence
as a State of the Commonwealth is
firmly achieved the last ties with the
British Commonwealth will be severed
and Singapore will siuk back into the
Chinese zone, dominated, like Northern
Vietnam, from Peking.
This, however, is unlikely to be
hurriedly achieved. The new leader
of the autonomous Government, Lee
Kuan-yew —British-educated, of course,
like most of his immediate followers
—aims to achieve Federation with the
Malayan Commonwealth so as to drag
the whole of the eleven mainland States
and settlements with him out of the
Western world.
But this is not so easy. The Chinese
do not dominate the; mainland States,
though they form about two-fifths of
the entire population. Instead of being
one-tenth of the population, as in
Singapore, the native Malays form
nearly half of it, the Chinese number-
ing less than a scattered two-million,
with 500,000 Indians added. And the
Chinese of Penang and the old Malacca
towns are a different breed to the new-
come young Chinese of Singapore,
more in their outlook like the old-time
Chinese of Hong Kong, a settlement
founded and developed by the British
under circumstances very similar to
those of Singapore.
Malaya has been holding elections
with different results from those of
Singapore. The issues in the States have
been mainly between an Islamic bloc
motivated from Cairo and a combined
Malayan-Indian-Chinese alliance. The
Leftist People’s Progressive Party has
made some headway in parts of the
Federation since the elections of July,
1955, but as the returns have come in
from the State elections during the
month it has been evident that opinion
is overwhelmingly against P.A.P
policies as exhibited in Singapore.
YX/HILE Mr. Lee, the new head of
™ the Singapore Government who is
backed by a majority of young hot-
heads in his party, professes to be on
the side of moderation, his threats to
the freedom of the press and his infer-
ences of what will happen to those who
oppose him or his policies give little
hope of a moderate programme.
His election-campaign was high-
lighted by various inquiries connected
with the Singapore Municipal Council
and 'Government in which he con-
ducted much of his electioneering as
counsel. At one of these inquiries Mr.
Marcus, one of the founders of Lee’s
People’s Action Party, gave evidence
which showed the irresponsible nature
of the party. At one stage he told Lee,,
when explaining his breach with the
P.A.P.: “You were a stooge for the
Communists—l did not agree with your
policy.”
This is the belief of a large section
of Malaya, and commercially the
change of Government represents a
sad day both for the British Common-
wealth and Malaya. It splits Malaya
politically, leaving its chief centre of
communication in the hands of Leftists
and anti-Europeans. It represents
another withdrawal of Commonwealth
security into the Western zone of Aus-
tralia, and another denial of the theory
that Australia is part of South-east
Asia. It represents another advance
of the Iron Curtain towards us.
Singapore has retired to the fringes
of the Communist jungle.


THE GUNS OF SINGAPORE—
Where are they pointing now?


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Basic Wage and Inflation
The decision of the three judges of the
Conciliation and Arbitration Commission
to increase the Federal basic wage by
15s. for men and 11s. 3d. for women
came as a cold shock to industry. At a
period when it was hoped that the country
had temporarily said good-bye to the
worst features of inflation, the vicious
circle begins to operate again.
Moreover, it started to operate the week
before the Federal Cabinet began its
preliminary sittings for the framing of
the Budget in readiness for the reopening
of Parliament early in August.
The Federal Treasury will not worry
very much about the mere fact of the
rise, since, although it will cost the Federal
Government in additional wages and
salaries about £7 million, of which about
£5.5 million will go to the civil service,
a boosting of the national payroll by
around £SO million a year will certainly
swell tax receipts
But industry looks on the decisions
with startled misgiving, as well it may
in view of the differences among the
judges. Mr. Justice Kirby, the president,
was for 15s. a week, Mr. Justice Gallagher
10s., and Mr. Justice Foster for 10s., with
four quarterly increases of 2s. 6d. start-
ing the first pay period in 1960.
By two to one, Mr. Justice Foster
dissenting, the commission decided against
restoration of quarterly adjustments.
With nearly full employment and com-
petition for every kind of labor which
will work, plus the pressures of closed
unions with monopolies of work and the
power to limit the number of men
employed, adjustments upward of the
wage add to the international-trading
handicap produced by the 40-hour week.
It falls particularly heavily on the
primary industries, such as wool, which
has been hit hard by the fall in prices.
It certainly will cause rises in food
and clothing, freights and costs in general.
The outlay on public works will be
affected, and in such enterprises as the
N.S.W. transport, living in a state of
suspended bankruptcy under subsidy
from Consolidated Revenue, it will add
to the already inordinate wages-bill.
As Mr. Justice Gallagher pointed out,
the average weekly earnings—about £2O
—left open to doubt the union claim that
there had been an unreasonable shift of
profits to employers. And, moreover,
those engaged in the export industries
have to accept prices which are beyond
local control.
The present freak sharemarket is no
guide to the strength of Australian in-
dustry. The trading results of Gollin
Holdings, Ltd., are more of an indicator.
The truth is that Australian industries
generally are not making enough profit
to provide the capital needed for their
expansion.
If nothing else, the continued pressure
towards rising wages combined with more
leisure provides an accelerating spur
towards mechanisation and automation.
These are the only counters to the present
artificial and inflationary trends.
Finger-on-lip
As this was written that part of the
world interested in the future of the
world was waiting, finger-on-lip, for the
aftermaths of Khrushchev’s visit to the
Balkans, and particularly Albania.
There he spent some days with a
military commission, at the end of which
he went back to Warsaw rumbling
threats to establish rocket-bases there to
menace Greece and Italy and, of course,
Austria and Switzerland.
Over the weekend the situation in
Geneva had reached a crisis. Khrushchev
has gone back to Moscow via Budapest
to meet the leaders of East Germany
in Moscow, after conferring with
Gromyko, who has been marking-time
ever since the Foreign Ministers of the
West presented their final draft of pro-
posals on May . 25.
A pointer to the Moscow attitude is
in Khrushchev’s little-publicised state-
ment at Tiranna that the Western Minis-
ters at Geneva “do not wish to reach
agreement,’’ while the “Soviet stand
testifies the exact opposite.” Finally, that
“if we do not succeed in reaching agree-
ment on signing a peace-treaty with both
parts of Germany, then we shall sign
a treaty with East Germany alone.” He
has since made it clear that Russia “will
not tolerate” continuance of the occupa-
tion of West Berlin. Though the Western
seven-point plan was reasonable and lucid,
providing for elections to decide the fate
of the two Germanies and for all
preliminary steps, Gromyko has shown
no tendency to give way. The Moscow
assumption is that the only agreement
possible is complete surrender by the
West to the Iron Curtain viewpoint.
The West is certainly at a disadvantage
through its divisions, through the silly
suggestions of “The Times” about Selwyn
Lloyd at a time when full national sup-
port of his viewpoint was called for
in the interests of civilisation, and by
the manoeuvres of Dr. Adenauer.
The position is further complicated by
the divergences of public attitude among
the Foreign Secretaries. Mr. Selwyn
Lloyd over the weekend showed a con-
ciliatory attitude and at least had not
openly given up hope of agreement, while
Gromyko and Mr. Herter engaged in
an angry wrangle about the spy systems
of Berlin. Gromyko complained against
alleged spying in West Berlin, courting
a devastating and categorical retort from
the U.S. Secretary of State detailing kid-
nappings, burglary, sabotage by 26,000
officers and 200,000 agents and informers
operating against West Berlin and West
Germany.
The Russians are playing for a huge
stake which may make the difference
as to whether they do or do not control
Western Europe in the next 15 or 20
years, and they are using every kind of
cunning and every kind of threat to
divert world attention from their main
objective.
Their whole argument at Geneva is
that Greater Berlin —Berlin as a whole —
is the capital of the Eastern German
Republic, which is quite independent of
control by anybody except the Soviet
Union. The expression of this viewpoint
is a gross breach of the agreements con-
tained in every vital document signed by
Allies for the occupation of Germany.
These arrangements provided specifically
for the joint occupation of Berlin as a
whole by the Allies, with separate admin-
istrations in the particular zones in which
troops of the various countries were
lodged.
The next few days should show what
can be expected from Moscow. On past
experience, not much, except more
brutality and bluff. The only consolation
seems to be that wherever the Red Army
has felt that it can safely march in it
has done so. Apd it has hesitated long
about moving into Western Berlin.
Scruples it has none.
The Red Melting-pot
Indications are that when the State
conference of the New South Wales
A.L.P branch is held, few members will
be sure whether they are coming or
going. v
For many years this conference has
resolved itself into a contest between a
predatory Left and a defensive Right,
but it is a decade since the pressure
from the Left has been as intense or the
manoeuvres as tortuous as in the pre-
liminaries to the coming Donnybrook.
The mysterious preliminary meeting at
the Federal Members’ rooms at the Com-
monwealth Bank—at which some people
attended who are charged with covering
their tracks by putting wrong names in
the Commonwealth Bank JB u i 1 d i n g
register, to the embarrassment of Mr.
Colbourne, the branch secretary has
triggered - off a series of ominous
gatherings.
A move to wipe-out the Right-wing
of the State A.L.P. executive is in being.
The open leader of the Left, who has
replaced Dr. Evatt as its idol, is E. J.
Ward, with Dan Curtin as his Corporal
Trim. In their rooms, it seems, the
general staff of the movement has been
located, while the rank - and - file union
organisation, which is to politically
assassinate Mr. Fred Campbell and the
rest of the executive at the conference,
has been gathering at the headquarters
of the Red-dominated Building Workers’
Industrial Union in a sea of Rightist
spies.
Meanwhile Dr. Evatt has been in Mel-
bourne trying to bludgeon the Victorian
branch into obeying the Federal con-
ference’s ban on unity-tickets. Amid loud
laughter he has been seriously telling the
branch that it must throw-over its sup-
port of unity-tickets, not, as might be
expected, because it is wrong and
dangerous for Labor to associate itself
with the Communists since they repre-
sent treachery and menace to world
security, but because the foes of Labor
are using its Leftist associations to
damage it.
His difficulties have been added to
because Mr. Chamberlain, who, as the
president of the Federal A.L.P., claims


to be a trustee of Labor’s integrity, is
openly letting himself fall down on the
job of policing the Federal ukase ban-
ning unity-tickets.
The Victorian State conference is to
discuss the ban, and it will provide the
banner round which the fight will rage
at the N.S.W. conference.
At the Victorian meetings Dr. Evatt
was nothing more than a ghost-voice in
the wings when he declared against the
A.R.U. ballot, a procedure which un-
masked his years of political humbug
on the Communist issue. It seems certain
now that the hounds under the new
M.F.H. Eddie Ward, with the powerful
field of the Communist-led unions
and of the heads of the Federal A.L.P.
who supposedly are the declared mortal
enemies of Communism, have identified
Dr. Evatt as The Fox of 1959, and are
after his brush and political blood.
Weakness in Unity
The situation in the A.L.P. in Victoria
is as explosive as it was before the Vic-
torian executive was sacked in 1955, and
Dr. Evatt’s trip to Melbourne to hear
from the Victorian executive the diffi-
culties of enforcing the ban on unity
tickets worsened the position.
He was roasted by questioners, but
he gave no consideration to any “special
difficulties” in Victoria in enforcing the
ruling, and he departed for Sydney with
his influenza intact, and in addition a
case of high huff.
Chamberlain’s role was quite subtle.
The Federal president maintained that
Solidarity Must Be Held, and then, with
apparent bland indifference, pointed out
that the Federal executive could call
another special conference on unity-
tickets, but would need to have very
strong reasons to show that the ban was
unworkable in Victoria.
He was applauded, in contrast with
the Doc’s reception. It cannot be accepted
as coincidence that this delaying tactic
was suggested for other than what it is,
since Chamberlain was one of the
opponents of the ban on unity-tickets
in the Federal executive discussions and
voted with the minority against it. The
suggestion, was made in answer to a
question, but it was no doubt a Dorothy
Dixer, and it is clear he is still at logger-
heads with Evatt.
The probability of another split in
Victoria has led to a strengthening of
opinion in the last fortnight in favor
of enforcing the ban and appeasing the
remaining moderates in the A.L.P. and
A.L.P. unions.
The decision had been left to the
annual Victorian conference next week-
end, but thanks to Chamberlain’s sugges-
tion, the decision can now be further
delayed.
"Maximum Security"
[From “Collins Street”]
A few days after a misguided official
had described Pentridge prison, Mel-
bourne, as a “maximum-security institu-
tion” a lad of 20, with a little alcohol to
lace his strength and flight, scaled the
walls and had got to its centre before he
was discovered ; and last week a bonds-
man turned up at the gate with bail for
an alleged offender who had been refused
bail and got him out under another
defendant’s name.
The way the jail authorities found out
they were holding the wrong man was
that detectives saw the other in the city
and telephoned to ask why he was out.
Last year two warders were dismissed
for giving two nurses an unauthorised,
after-hours look over The College, as it
is known to be initiated ; and the previ-
ous year O’Malley and Taylor attempted
to shoot their way out.
The Attorney-General, rather petu-
lantly, has asked the police to keep an
eye open to stop people breaking in—
into, that is, the maximum-security
prison.
Hotel High Jinks \
[From Canberra]
An irate manager, an indignant tenant
and blushing housemaids have com-
bined to give Canberra’s hostel-dwellers
their biggest laugh since they were con-
demned to the boredom of hostel life.
And it all arose because housemaids
at Canberra’s Hotel [dry] Acton found
Norman Lindsay’s well-known painting,
“The Court,” objectionable.
So much so that when cleaning the
room of Government Geologist Dr. H. P.
Hyde, they were embarrassed by a print
of Lindsay’s picture stuck to Hyde’s
bedroom wall.
Manager E. J. Parker, quickly to the
rescue of the blushing maids, wrote (not
spoke, mind you) to Dr. Hyde ordering
him to remove the offending picture.
Wrote Mr. Parker: “Though you may
consider your bedroom your own to do
as you please, such is not the case.
“While your room is serviced it be-
comes semi-public, and in the circum-
stances it is necessary for you to remove
the painting from your wall.”
“The Court” depicts a group of female
figures, some of them nude. Dr. Hyde
was most indignant at the suggestion
that the painting was in any way indecent,
and more so that his bedroom was not
private. He said prints of the painting
could be seen in any worth-while art
show, which were far more public than
his bedroom.
When asked if he would remove the
picture, he cried: “No. No. Never.
Over my dead body. I will do nothing.
Absolutely nothing over the manager’s
order.”
Dr. Hyde kept the real sting in the
tail, however. “Anyone visiting the Mel-
bourne Art Gallery can see the original
of the painting, and what is dirty enough
for Melbourne’s Art Gallery should not
be too dirty for the Hotel Acton,” he
claimed.
At the time of writing the print was
still on the wall, Dr. Hyde was still
indignant, Mr. Parker still irate, and
the maids still blushing.
Human Needs and
Beauty-spots
The lament of Vernon Christie, the Vic-
torian Liberal M.L.A. for one of the
threatened areas and a protagonist of the
save-the-Yarra-Valley movement, that
the natural beauty of the Yarra’s
environs will soon disappear, raised
sympathetic murmurs in influential
quarters in Melbourne ; but the response
was not as enthusiastic as it might have
been even a few months ago.
Since the permission to construct a
housing-estate on the former Banyule
farm-estate at Heidelberg aroused such
strong opposition last year, some arrest-
ing facts have been produced on Mel-
bourne’s boom growth, making it clear
that it will be very difficult, if not impos-
sible, to retain fully the green-belt around
the city so desirable from so many points
of view.
First in importance is the official esti-
mate that Melbourne’s population will
be 2\ million in about 10 years’ time if
the increase during the past four years
continues at the same rate.
An inevitable result of this growth,
coupled with zoned parkland, has been
spectacular prices at auction for resi-
dential land where it can be found and
put under auction. The prices have been
so high they have brought a warning
from the Liberal Minister for Housing,
Mr. Petty, and, naturally enough, com-
plaints from the A.L.P. that workers have
to pay sky-high prices for building-
allotments.
The redevelopment of decadent inner
areas, on which a tardy beginning has
been made, can make a substantial con-
tribution to housing needs and it will
halt the suburban sprawl, but only to
a limited extent, after the first intensive
building of high and massive blocks of
flats has been completed.
One solution may be the building of
satellite-towns, which has been so satis-
factorily organised in England. The
pleasant country-town of Sunbury, 21
miles from Melbourne, is to have a £37-
million satellite-town built on its fringes
by private enterprise. The planners
intend to develop the town over 12 years
until it has 10,500 houses and a popula-
tion of 42,000.
The company will build 500 houses a
year for the first two years and then
1000 a year, and its own organisation will
provide drainage and arrange for water
and electricity. There are 40 sites for
light- and secondary-industry in the
town’s master-plan.
The 1954 Melbourne master-plan made
no such provisions. The imagination and
courage of the Sunbury protagonists is
greater than that of the official sponsors
of the master-plan ; and with population
pressures so strong, it is unlikely that
more than the most attractive areas of
the green-belt can be retained as com-
mon pleasure-grounds. The future fight
may be to decide how much and many
of the beauty spots can be permanently
retained as they are.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
npHE Admiral was giving a dinner-
■*- party for some v.i.p.s, and to
the bandmaster’s horror he had ordered
a movement from a Mozart serenade to
be played during soup. During rehearsals
that afternoon they were doing justice
to Mozart, except for the clarinet. The
first-clarinet was up for’ard in the sick-
bay, and a very tricky solo passage fell
to the second-clarinet, a young musician
fresh from the R.A.N. School of Music.
After about the 17th attempt he looked
at the '"score and slowly shook his head.
Bandie picked-up his baton, hurled it at
him and shattered the peace and serenity
normally induced by Mozart: “It’s no
good shaking your head. There’s . . .
-all in it to rattle!” —“Akarana.”
♦♦♦ ♦> *
“Fontaine”: London cables about the
Conan Doyle centenary contained one
boner. The second Sherlock Holmes
book, The Sign of Four, did not, as
stated, launch him firmly on the road
to authorship. It was hardly more
successful than A Study in Scarlet, which
was a flop. A year later Conan Doyle
wrote the first of the short-stories, “A
Scandal in Bohemia,” and his detective
skyrocketed to fame.
❖ ❖ .♦>
“Mac Hoots”: I wouldn’t like to swear
that lan Mudie’s small boys (B. 3/6/’59)
were a politer lot than ours, but at least
we had a pithier rhyme for telltales—
not “Buy her a new umbrella” but
Tell ’er,
Smell ’er,
Put ’er in a matchbox and sell ’er.
This used to sound fearfully rude when
somebody had threatened to tell his
mother on you. Our rhyme for Chinamen,,
too, was a little stronger and, chanted
at the doors of innocent vegetable-
shops :
Yeller-belly green-guts
Can’t eat peanuts—
used to bring quite remarkable results.
✓ A A
/ V V V
“Pigi”: I can do better than lunch at
8 a.m., “M'Lou.” At one stage in ’42
we were instructed that because the
Japs were prepared to fight at night we
must be trained to do likewise. So a
new daily routine was organised for us
in North Queensland by which we started
“CERTAINLY We can find you a place for thirty-bob a week—a lovely
old slab-hut on the Barkly Tablelands.”
training at 6 p.m. and knocked-off at
6 a.m. Apart from an emu-parade in
the dark (our habitual early-morning
chore) I remember most clearly the
stewed prunes and rice at sunup and
porridge at sundown.
* *
“Sister Ellell”: At the Salvator Mundi
Hospital in Rome I have just been over
the kitchens, the nursery, and the
operating-theatre . . . and then was shown
the room where Miss Lollobrigida came
off the production-line, and Miss Berg-
man parted company with the twins.
For your information, it was just an
ordinary room.
“Pat”: Meeting our oldest inhabitant
stalking home from a shopping expedi-
tion, I mentioned how glad 1 was to see
Ker up and about. “I rather wondered,
not having seen you in church the last
couple of weeks,” I said. “These beastly
cataracts in my eyes,” she muttered. “No
use going to church if you can’t see to
sing the hymns and repeat the psalms.
But don’t worry! Doctor’s promised to
have me fixed up fine by next Sunday.
I’ll be there.” She was, too. Fixed up
fine, with a magnifying-glass held fiercely
to every line, singing and intoning as
lustily as any member of the congregation.
And she was 95 this May.
♦♦♦ ♦> ♦>
“Becks”: Add beer to the long list
of subjects for commemorative postage-
stamps. Eire is to issue a stamp in honor
of the 200th anniversary of the found-
ing of Guinness’s brewery in Dublin. The
official explanation is that the Guinness
family and firm have, through their
benefactions, endowed Dublin with
various amenities such as parks, housing,
baths, a market and a play-centre, as
welT as generous financial aid to medical
and scientific research. In addition to
which they’ve supplied six generations of
Finnegans with damn’ good beer.
“Ceg”: Just how slow can a slow boat
to China be? Those two old steamers
Woinora and Port Waikato, with their
ocean-going tug escort Inglis, didn’t get
very f ar on their long tow to Hong Kong
(B. 15/4/’59). Soon after passing through
Port Phillip Heads the trio had to
return to Williamstown. After repairs,
they set out again; but somewhere oft'
Queenscliff the half-mile of towing-gear
snagged on the rocky bottom and they
got free only after 800 ft. of wire
hawser and rope had been cut away
with acetylene torches. A second tug was
called-in, and once again back they went
to the sanctuary of the Gellibrand Pier
at Williamstown.
PECULIAR TO WHISKY
“Australian whisky has risen by 2s. a bottle
and a penny a nip. The increased costs which
forced the whisky-rise were peculiar to whisky.”
Of all the drinks that lubricate
Our thirsty country’s throttle
Why must our whisky raise its rate
A full two-bob a bottle?
Castalian founts make no advance,
Pierian springs aren’t frisky ;
There is, it seems, some circumstance
Peculiar to whisky.
Beer and brandy, gin and rum,
They cost no more to drink-o ;
Drambuie, Pernod, Van der Hum,
They do not sting the stinko ;
But those who have to sip and watch
Austrcdian whisky’s rises
Consider it is growing Scotch —
A t any rate, in prices.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Tn advertising concession - rate fares
•*- to passengers travelling to Mel-
bourne to see “My Fair Lady” the
railways of N.S.W. and South Australia
are following a precedent set by the
Victorian Railways Commissioners over
50 years ago. When “The Merry Widow,”
with Carrie Moore as the star, was having
a triumphant run in Melbourne in 1908,
the Victorian railways entered into tem-
porary alliance with J.C.W. and ran ex-
cursion trains from all over Victoria.
Tickets were available for one month and
included return plus a seat in the stalls or
circle at Her Majesty’s Theatre. Gipps-
land’s “Merry Widow” night was held on
July 17, 1908, and the inclusive cost from
Sale was 14s. sd. Bendigo, Castlemaine,
Woodend, Kyneton and Sunbury filled
another special—at 11s. lid. a head. The
Ballarat night was cheaper still —9s. lid.
Even the residents of Warrnambool and
Terang paid only 17s. 1 Id. for a ticket
that took them from their home-town
right into the stalls at Her Majesty’s.
Even the bloke who lives next-door to
the theatre can’t see “My Fair Lady” for
less than that.—“Jasby.”
♦J* £♦
“Sister Ellell” (abroad): On a bill-
board in Rome was a statement which
pronounced: “The beautiful legs of
Sabrina!” Even allowing for any poetic
licence in my translation, I still think
they had the anatomy mixed —or were
they thinking about La Dietrich?
*> * ►>
“Fontaine”: Myer’s are breaking new
ground by taking their principal Bourke
Street competitors along with them to
their shopping-centre at Chadstone, 10
miles from Melbourne and 10 from the
up - and - coming city of Dandenong
Myer’s will have a frontage of 253 ft.
to Dandenong Road in what is to be
called The Mall; leasing adjacent
areas, with frontages of 70ft. each, are:
Buckly and Nunn (next door, as in Bourke
Street), G. J. Coles, Foy and Gibson,
Paterson’s, Rockman’s and James
McEwan and Co. Dickens self-service
stores will operate a supermarket which
they say will be the largest in Australia ;
22 small shops, professional suites and
banks will also be built. The £6-million
centre-is expected to be completed by
October, 1960.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sunray”: Waiting to be served in the
greengrocery at a N.S.W. seaside-resort,
I was admiring the tomatoes. They were
firm-fleshed, large, evenly colored, and
advertised as “Choice, local grown.” The
woman being served bought her vege-
tables, passed on to fruit, and admired
the tomatoes. The greengrocer thought
they deserved admiration, too. “Yes, they
are nice,” he said. “They come from
Queensland.” I still reckoned they were
choice, but how far away is “local”?
♦♦♦ +J+
“Form R. 6”: “DH9A’s” character (B.
20/5/’59) must have been in clover,
getting Is. 6d. for each document wit-
nessed. Nowadays, here in Victoria, we
commissioners are permitted to charge
the magnificent sum of Is. for each docu-
ment witnessed, but most commissioners
don’t make any charge. The remunera-
tion of Is. was fixed by Parliament in
1891 and hasn’t since been amended.
Most people seem to expect our services
free ; I have never attempted to charge
a fee during several years as a commis-
sioner and have never had a fee offered
to me by any “client.”
“Now, that's what I CALL a dumper !”
“H.C.8.”: Can’t see the justice in
“Jesmondene’s” contention that the
behavior of an apprentice doing a job
in somebody’s home should be the
technical-schoolteacher’s responsibility (B.
20/5/’59). Although the behavior of
the lad mentioned was somewhat brazen,
he did fix the lamp-switch; and that
was the teacher’s pigeon. Manners, surely,
should be taught at home, and at an
age considerably earlier than apprentice-
ship years. If by the time he is old
enough to be apprenticed a boy’s parents
haven’t succeeded in, or bothered about
teaching him to be reasonably well-
mannered, then the tech.-teacher has
enough trouble on his hands in trying
to enforce class-behavior, without adding
etiquette to the syllabus.
♦l* ♦> •>
“J.J.A.”: At Melbourne’s Drama
Festival the Maryborough (Vic.) group
of the C.W.A. presented “The Claw,”
in which several players had to emerge
from a musty disused cellar covered with
dirt and cobwebs. The group took their
own dirt and cobwebs from Maryborough
—and won. This year’s win completed
the hat-trick.
A A A
V V v
“Doynest”: The black sedan, an aged
heavyweight, swung around the corner
at about 30 m.p.h., skidded on the carpet
of wet leaves from the street trees, and
crashed into the rear of the light car
parked near the corner, propelling it
astride the kerb and with its nose pro-
jecting into the stern of the little rear-
engined job ahead. That rammed its nose
into the boot of the next in line. The
tousle-haired youngster who climbed out
of the black sedan inspected its bonnet
and front fittings, lit-up a cigarette, and
walked off without more than a passing
glance at the three victims of his care-
lessness. Why worry, when the insurance
companies pay?
+
“A.M.”: Our garbage blokes cop it
sweet this year. The contractor has just
supplied perfumed disinfectant to spray
all garbage-cans. Four kinds of per-
fume, too, to be used in rotation, in case
householders tire of the one scent. I
can hardly wait for garbage-day. What
will iGbe? Chanel No. 5 or just plain
Lavender Mist?
<♦ ♦♦♦ *l*
“Warrengong”: Noticing Bobby Burns
brooding in leafy splendor near Prince’s
Bridge (Melb.) recalled my first sight of
the statue in 1911 when, as a newly-
arrived Scottish teacher with a class of
very young ladies on a gentle excursion,
I went all nostalgic, fervently inquiring
of the little innocents their knowledge
of this very famous man. One doubtful
hand went up—of a six-year-old who
“wasn’t so sure he was that famous,
because he’d been knocked-out flat by
Jack Johnston, and him only a black
man! ”
* *>
“Ceg”: We had been travelling on the
same surburban line for years ; on nod-
ding terms only ; he was one of those
to whom' dignity meant everything. He
got into my compartment at Flinders
Street, nodded to me, placed a small
paper parcel in the rack, settled into
his corner, and unfolded the evening
paper. Half -a - dozen teenage bodgies
burst noisily into our compartment,
wrestled round before coming to rest,
and began giggling. The pompous one
glared at the newcomers. They stared at
the luggage-rack. Thick, luscious egg-
yolk was oozing from the paper parcel
and dropping on to the dignified man’s
hat. He looked up himself, and copped
a, juicy drop in his eye. But he made
no effort to correct matters; he was


determined not to give those bodgies the
satisfaction of seeing him discomfited.
With the movement of the train the
drops of yolk became larger, and soon
he looked like Billy Hughes at Warwick.
Still he sat on reading, while the bodgies
went into hysterics. He had stamina,
all right, and it was not until the train
reached Essendon, and the bodgies had
regretfully to alight, that he started to
clean-up, muttering as he did so impre-
cations against rude young hoodlums.
Not a word was directed at the eggs.
When he reached his station, dignity
prevented him from attempting to salvage
what was left in the parcel—so I scored
quatre oeufs.
❖ ❖ ❖
“L. 8.5.”: Morning headlines: “Duke
praises Montgomery.” Evening: “Duke
chides Montgomery.” Reminds me of
the two cricket reporters. One wrote
that Jpnes hit Smith for a glorious six,
the other that Smith was very unlucky ;
he should have had Jones caught in the
outfield, but the ball went for six.
+£«- {4
“Backsac”: I’m vigorously on the side
of anybody who puts a knot in the tail
“No thanks — I'm keeping off starches."
of music-maulers who “modernise” good
old songs (B. 13/5/’59), but I’m rather
amazed that Rudyard Kipling’s sister was
able to have the Sinatra version of “The
Road to Mandalay” banned in all British
Commonwealth countries. After all,
Kipling didn’t write the music. And,
come to that, Peter Dawson wasn’t pre-
vented from, on several occasions, sing-
ing the ballad to his own tune, but, much
as I admired the baritone —as a singer—
he should have been! Whether the
relatives of “Banjo” could prevent
“Waltzing Matilda” being butchered on
hit-parades is another curly one. Paterson
never did claim to have written the tune.
Following the precedent, Winston
Churchill could, as a descendant of
Marlborough, object to the tune sung by
his ancestor’s soldiers being “modernised”
in an Australian setting. It all seems to
confirm' Kipling’s philosophy:
When ’Omer smote his bloomin’ lyre
He’d heard men sing by land and sea;
And what he thought he might require
I bet he stole —the same as me.
“Roomy”: Have fome across the
good - oil on “salmagundi” in one of
my cookery-books' dated 1813. It is
described as “a beautiful small dish, if
in nice shape, and the colors of the
ingredients are varied.” My book lists
choice ingredients such as chicken, veal,
anchovies, ham, and grated tongue, and
suggests the finished article being built
into pyramids, topped with curls of
parsley. We make ’em these days with
anchovy sauce and call them “stuffed
hard-boiled eggs”!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Q.Ree.”: Our small community
flocked to Vatia Wharf, Fiji, to watch a
little Cessna aircraft which had come to
our side of the island to give us joyrides,
at a price ; we admired the little seaplane
as it took-off, landed, and came right up
to the wharf steps. Quite a few took a
trip to the beautiful Yasawas. When the
first party landed on the lagoon there,
church was in. It was out in lOsec. flat.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Will C.”: For the first time for many
years the financial year beginning July 1
will be a treasure for wage- and salary-
earners throughout the Commonwealth:
those who start receiving their pay-
envelopes on July 1 or 2 will receive 53
pays in the year. It would be interesting
to know just how much will be paid to
the Taxation Department and the Corn-
monwealth Superannuation Fund, just to
mention two that will benefit by the extra
payday falling due by June 30, 1960.
* * *
“Barra”: Ball-points! Our stationer
has a window-display of large bottles of
j n k, o ffi ce s i zej J2s. 6d. reduced to 3s.
>
* <* ❖
„„ f
W,ll C : At the turn of the century
>t was not uncommon for womenfolk to
bracelets, generally made of
En S'' sh u ih'eepences, holed, so that they
“uld be ringed together Finding one
the oth< f, / ! f nl l, u " ed at ,‘ he Com-
monwealth Bank if they would redeem
the 15 coins, but was informed that as
they were “damaged coins” nothing could
be done with them so far as they were
concerned. Had the bracelet been made
of Australian threepences it could have
been changed straightaway.
♦X*
“Smithy”: A Northern Tasmanian
newspaper didn’t expect its readers to
begin the day in a cheerful mood ; here
are the front-page contents: “Death Jump
by Launceston Man: Wife Strangled,”
“Couple Die at Lonely Farmhouse,”
“Bomb Plot Alleged,” “Trevallyn Shoot-
ing,” “Petrol Price Rise?”
»*4 4*4 <4
“Heresome”: All “Curie’s” friends
missed the real snag in the plan to leave
a trail of beer-cans across the Pacific (B.
20/ 5/ ’59). As the raft would drift with
the current, and the cans likewise, he
would travel surrounded by a retinue of
empties, and there would be no trail for
anyone to follow.
BIVALVULAR AWARENESS
“Research-scientists claim to have established
that oysters are endowed with several rudimen-
tary senses.”
I’d often wondered, as I gazed
Upon some oysters as they lazed
On river-rock.
If sudden shock
Could spoil their pleasant drinking;
If they had sense of sight and touch,
And, if so, did these tell ’em much;
On what they thought
If Nature'd brought
Them to the stage of thinking.
Did they, living a simple life.
Shorn of anxiety and strife,
Having no need
To earn a feed
Nor seek a habitation,
Regard with strong contempt mankind,
Bound to its cares, the daily grind;
Those problems which
Plague poor and rich
In every age and nation ?
The theory that those bivalves could
Have rudimentary senses would
Lend credence to
A thing that you
Might otherwise be doubting;
Twelve oysters rested on my plate;
All bent upon me looks of hate.
The first I speared
Produced a weird
Effect of silent shouting!
While some, as they slipped down, went
crook,
Others gave me a pleading look,
And one or two
Took grips like glue
Upon their shells. One giant
That I’d been keeping to the last —
Fit topper-off for my repast —
He tried to choke
Me, did that bloke,
Right to the last, defiant!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


A Letter from the Cote d’Azur
From Dr. T. H. GODDARD.
C.8.E., Chevalier Legion of Honor.
I would like to express my appre-
ciation of The Bulletin, which
is posted to me regularly
at St. Raphael. Here in this
town of the Cote d’Azur, about
20 miles to the west of Cannes,
on the heights of the blue Medi-
terranean in front, the French Alps
at the back, a provenfal plain in
between with all its red-tiled houses,
I live with my daughter, formerly of
the “Sydney Morning Herald,” now
married to a French surgeon.
The Bulletin is my link with my
native land and keeps me more in touch
with Australia than any other medium.
A retired doctor, 74 years of age, I
was very interested to read “A Great
Medical Address, 155 Macquarie Street,”
in B. 25/2/’59.
Starting in Arts at Sydney University
in 1901, I have vivid memories of the
university life at the beginning of the
century, and in particular of that great
man, our Chancellor, Sir Normand
Maclaurin.
Particularly was I struck with the
reference in the article to Professor
G. A. Wood and his support of the
Boer cause. I think of an article he
wrote in self-defence in the “Herald”:
“and these are the opinions of the ‘Man-
chester Guardian’.” And a verse which
appeared in the “Herald” or “Telegraph”
(I forget which) the morning after he had
presided over the meeting of the “Peace”
or “Pro-Boer” society in the absence of
W. A. Holman:
The Peace Society has met, its heart is
good.
It loves old Kruger and de W<et, its head
is — wood.
Memories come flooding in of that
Chestertonian figure, Wood, and the
other professors of the time: Thomas
Butler, David, Warren, Anderson
Stuart, Francis Anderson and the rest.
A particular recollection of Thomas
Butler: he had started his Latin lecture
to us at 9-o’clock, but Anthony
Hordern’s was burning fiercely on
Brickfield Hill, and we students were
restless.
Professor Biitler sensed this, and the
old funster, “that singular anomaly, the
classic humorist” (in the words of our
Commem. song), at last said, “Oh, well,
gentlemen, we will abandon the lecture.
Why should Nero fiddle while Rome
burns?”
And again Wood, in his lecture-room
next-door, had evidently said something
which caused his students to stamp on
the floor. Butler, hearing the stamping,
without a smile remarked to us students,
“Gentlemen, that’s pre'tty rough on the
Wood.”
“Duke” Tritton, in his reminiscences,
made a remark which struck me. “It’s
only the mountains which do not meet.”
He had not heard the expression since.
Well, it is heard frequently in France.
“We leave our friends for the moment,
but we shall soon meet them again, for
the world is small, and it is only the
mountains which do not .meet.” (“II
n’y a que les montagnes qui ne se
rencontrent pas.”)
As for St. Raphael, it was here, St.
Raphael Freyrs, that Napoleon landed
on his return from Egypt, and also here
that he embarked for Elba.
He was treated here with scant respect,
as all down the Rhone Valley. So much
so that on his escape from Elba to
begin the great Hundred Days ending
in Waterloo, he took care to land east
of here at Golfe Juan (adjoining
Cannes), and went up north over the
Alps. The authorities of Grenoble
refusing to give him the keys of the
town, the people took the gates down
and presented them to him.
Then he made his famous boast that
he could get to Paris without a drop
of blood being spilled. He wouldn’t
have got away witn that boast today.
Not with the modern battlefields on the
roads of France. For speed is in the
Frenchman’s blood. They tried out the
new diesel-electric train the other day
from Marseilles to Nice, and the Nice
paper was proud to say that it went
through our local station at 80 miles an
hour ; therefore was a great success!
Talking to an old Frenchman the
other day, and telling him that my land,
Tasmania, was an island to the south
of Australia, and yet part of the Com-
monwealth of Australia, he replied,
“Oh, yes, I understand —just like Corsica
and France.”
Corsica is proud to be French, and
perhaps stands as a rebuke to a Tas-
manian whose island once threatened
(in company with Western Australia) to
secede from Australia.
This Riviera is a thing of beauty, and
endowed with a glorious climate, but
has no Pacific beaches.
The abundant mimosa (our wattle)
brings one home to his native land.
So here in St. Raphael, after 40-odd
years of medical life in Tasmania, I
continue to read my Bulletin. Red
Page, leaders (with, by the way, I
think, a wonderful grip on the world
situation), Plain English, Aboriginalities,
etc., etc., and not forgetting “Into the
Silence.”
“Who signed YOU on?"


POLITICAL POINTS
Discoverer 111 must be the most
expensive mouse-trap ever devised.
• • "
About the only clarity that has come
out of the Foreign Ministers’ Conference
in Geneva so far is President Eisen-
hower’s statement that “there has not yet
been any detectable progress.” Some
sections of the Western press, headed by
the “Times,” tried to help things along
with a suggestion that Selwyn Lloyd
would soon lose his job, and though
President Eisenhower, at any rate, doesn’t
believe there is anything in the yarn, the
Russians are using it in Asia to help
explain the failure of the talks.
• •
By accident or design the N. S. Wales
Labor caucus squabble over penal clauses
in arbitration legislation came closer to
the open last week with the alleged “leak”
of a Cabinet document purporting to be
a secret minute to Cabinet from Minister
for Labor and Industry J. J. Maloney, in
which he allegedly recommended Cabinet
to reject the amendments to the State
Arbitration Act proposed by the State
executive and the Trades and Labor
Council. The recommendation said that
to give effect to the proposals would mean
the end of industrial arbitration and make
the task of the authorities in settling
industrial disputes impossible.
Whether or not Maloney wrote the
minute, it is the sort of recommendation
any conscientious Minister in his posi-
tion should have written. There are penal
clauses (applying to both employers and
employees) in the industrial laws of every
Australian State, the Commonwealth and
New Zealand.
What the Left-wingers behind the
move for deletion are aiming at is the
end of industrial arbitration ; this is also
the aim of the Communist party.
• •
King Kong, the Taronga Park Zoo’s
first gorilla, arrived in a bad temper last
week and began at once to pull the shirt-
tails of glad-handers. He should be a
great success at one of the A.L.P. confer-
ences this month.
• •
The United Nations continue as united
as ever —and as democratic. Jordan has
warned Hammarskjold that there is a
“tense situation” with Syria because the
latter country has cut off Jordanian
traffic to Lebanon. Ecuador has pro-
duced two-dozen assorted political
corpses, Cuba a tax on socialites as
evidence of new democracy. Nasser is
holding an election—with one party only
standing. The democratic Government of
Laos is chasing the democrats of its
Communist battalions who have been
forming a Trojan horse.
e • ii ■ '
The difficulty of finding any completely
satisfactory method of determining a fair
basic wage is illustrated by the latest
judgment. Three judges heard the same
evidence and made three findings. Presi-
dent of the Arbitration -Commission,
Kirby, J., recommended an increase of
155.; Gallagher, J., thought 10s. was fair
enough and Foster, J., suggested 205., half
of it to apply immediately and the bal-
ance in quarterly bites of 2s. 6d. each,
beginning from January 1, 1960. Judge
Foster later withdrew his recommenda-
tion and made it a two-to-one majority
for an immediate rise of 15s.
The application for a restoration of
quarterly adjustments was rejected by a
two-to-one verdict, Judge Foster alone
supporting it.
Federal basic wage in N. S. Wales will
now be £l4 35., which is 7s. more than
the State wage. Cahill’s Government is
now in a quandary. It has been paying
its Federal-award employees an over-
award wage to put them on the same
level as those employed under State
awards. It will now be faced with
demands “to do the right thing” by the
State-award blokes and give them the
seven-bob, too.
To agree to this will set the cat chasing
its tail again when the C-series index
begins to reflect the impact of the new
Federal judgment.
At the Victorian State conference of
the D.L.P. on Sunday Stan Keon, senior
vice-president of the Federal organisation
of the party, was defeated in the election
of delegates to the Federal conference.
Earlier he had been defeated for the
position of Victorian president ; that post
went to J. Meere. As a result Keon will
no longer be a member of the Federal
executive.
- Keon said after the meeting that he
had told the conference that the D.L.P.
was being labelled a church party be-
cause of the attempts of B. A. Santa-
maria, secretary of the National Catholic
Rural Movement, to gain control of it.
He accused Santamaria of usurping the
role of spokesman for the D.L.P. and
of trying' to turn it into a specifically
Roman Catholic party, “for which there
is no place in Australia.”
Keon, former Labor M.H.R. for
Yarra, is one of the ablest members of
the D.L.P. He says he intends to remain
a member and to oppose “the Santamaria
influence.”
• 9
Red delegates won’t be invited to the
A.C.T.U. congress in August. The
majority of unions oppose it, although a
majority of union-membership is in favor
of footing the bill, another earnest of
the Communists’ success in controlling
the big-membership unions. The real
reason for the retreat by the A.C.T.U.
is that the D.L.P. unions probably would
have seceded if they had been ordered
to pay a levy to bring Red trade-
unionists to Melbourne.
• •
The mystery of the “leak” of the
Maloney document from N.S.W. Cabinet
room is the biggest whodunit since the
overalls were found in Mrs. Murphy’s
chowder.
THE THIRD PARTY


The Moscow State Circus has arrived
in London. Its advance party includes 17
Cossack horses, a lion and 150 doves.
Last time it visited London the show
consisted of two doves only—B. and K.
0 0
State railways commissioners may find
a little cold comfort in contemplating
the financial position of the British
National Railways. The deficit for 1958
is reported to be almost £9O million. In
1957 it was £6O million.
0 0
New South Wales Opposition - leader
Morton wants Immigration Minister
Downer to establish a migrant-reception
depot in N.S.W. At present all non-
British migrants pass through Bonegilla
(Vic.), and Morton feels that this may
partly explain why Victoria attracts more
permanent New Australians than N.S.W.
The Bonegilla camp successfully handles
the whole migrant intake at present, and
there seems to be no good reason for
duplicating its work in N.S.W. or any-
where else. If the siting of the re.ception-
depot were the chief determinant of the
, migrants’ permanent home the best place
for it would be North Queensland, where
population is needed in the national in-
terest. But the truth is that migrants
settle where they can get jobs and
homes.
Anyway, Bonegilla is so close to N.S.W.
that any newcomer going for an after-
dinner stroll can easily find himself over
the border.
0 0
The death of Able, one of the monkeys
who survived a rocket journey into space
only to die under an anaesthetic during
a simple operation, had the same touch
of irony as attended the fate of Bobby
Leach, one of the first men to shoot
Niagara Falls in a barrel. He slipped on
a footpath in Dunedin (N.Z.), broke his
leg and died of blood-poisoning.
0 0
Queensland Premier Nicklin is plugging
hard for Commonwealth assistance to
develop North Queensland. His argument
is that if Canberra can find £5 million to
help Westralia open-up the nor’-west
above the 18th parallel, it should be able
to rustle up funds to give Queensland's
northern outposts similar assistance. In
particular he wants the Commonwealth
to help finance a road connecting Weipa,
the bauxite centre on the Gulf of Car-
pentaria, with the east coast of Cape
York Peninsula. The road is planned to
pass through Laura, Coen and Wenlock.
0 0
The Liberal party has announced that
it won’t be putting up candidates for the
Sydney City Council elections next
December; the present three Liberal
councillors will seek endorsement as
Citizens’ Reform candidates. In general
the Libs, hold that party politics should
not be allowed to intrude in local-
government, but six years ago they
departed from this rule in an attempt to
break Labor’s grip on the council. State
president Bob Cotton says the party
entered the field in 1953 because, of the
abolition of wards and changes in the
voting-system (one electorate with 20
councillors, to be elected under p.-r.).
Now that the wards have been restored
it will withdraw again.
• e
Salaried workers’ associations and the
A.C.T.U. agreed after a Melbourne meet-
ing to combine for higher marginal rates
for workers; their first target will be
marginal increases for Commonwealth
public servants and Commonwealth em-
ployees, with a deputation to the Acting
P.M. Arguments for higher pay have
recently proved convincing and successful
in prosperous Canberra.
• •
Pfeifer, S.M., who ordered an erring
driver to attend the casualty ward of
Royal Melbourne Hospital at fortnightly
intervals instead of fining him, is having
trouble in getting the co-operation of the
hospital and the Attorney - General's
Department, although there seems not the
slightest doubt magistrates have the power
to release convicted defendants on proba-
tion with special conditions.
The sections relating to the releasing
of prisoners on probation have been
highly successful in Victoria, and the
A.-Q’s Department naturally does not
want them shaken by remarkable con-
ditions. Yet it is a fact that among the
better drivers on the roads are doctors
employed in casualty departments, police-
reporters and policemen, ambulance- and
tow-truck drivers and others whose occu-
pations give them familiarity with horrors
on the roads.
• «
In April the United Kingdom had a
favorable trade-balance with the U.S.A.
for the first time since 1865! It cele-
brated the occasion by freeing from
control the import of many consumer-
goods from the dollar area. Among these
are refrigerators, other domestic
appliances, TV-sets, etc.
• »
Speaking last week on India’s Third
Five-year Plan, Prime Minister Nehru
said the two important needs of India
were trained manpower and advancement
in agricultural methods. It was easier
to build an iron-and-steel plant than to
train men to run it, so apart from any-
thing else it did, his Government was
concentrating on training technical and
scientific people in great numbers.
As to agriculture, Nehru stressed
the vastness of rural India, wjth
its 550,000 villages. He said that to
measure how the people of India had
advanced one should go to the villages
and not to cities like New Delhi, Bombay
or Madras. The task was to raise the
level of agriculture, but at present, with
a rural population of 300 million, too
many people were engaged in agriculture.
Industries—small or large, but mostly
small or cottage industries must be
established in the villages to provide alter-
native employment.
After delay due to litigation between
tenderers a contract for the construction
of the new Gladesville Bridge across the
Parramatta River, Sydney, was signed
last week. Successful tenderer is Reed
and Mallik, Ltd., of Salisbury, England,
with Stuart Bros. Pty., Ltd., of Sydney.
The bridge will be of concrete-arch type,
910 ft. between abutments ; its 72ft. road-
way will take six lanes of traffic and it
is to be finished in three years. Cost,
£2,365,289.
• •
Just at a time when reports from the
western districts of N.S.W. say that
kangaroos have become so numerous that
they threaten to drive the sheep off the
land the sheep stole from them, return-
ing travellers are talking of the popularity
of kangaroo-hide shoes in the United
States. Similar shoes are almost unobtain-
able in Australia. For that matter they
may really be unobtainable in America,
too. It’s doubtful whether any of the
kangaroo-tail soup served in hotels in
Amsterdam and Paris ever saw a kan-
garoo—or Australia. And how many
Aussies have ever tasted ’roo-tail soup?
o 0
While arguments continue about petrol-
prices and service - stations the oil-
companies continue with a programme
which within three years should bring
to Australia the first of two leviathan-
sized tankers, each of 87,500 tons. At
present tankers coming here are restricted
in size by draught limitations at refinery-
ports. The new giants will discharge part
of their cargoes at Hallett's Cove (S.A.),
the site of the new Vacuum refinery.
Thus lightened, they'll move on to Altona,
in Port Phillip Bay, to deliver the rest.
• •
Dr. Soekarno is reported to have
received so many presents during his
tour of Latin America that he has had
to hire a bigger plane to take them
home. Meanwhile, back home in Indo-
nesia presents, have been piling-up so
fast that he may have to hire a number
of planes to get rid of them.
• •
First report of the Queensland Electoral
Boundaries Commission should be re-
ceived by Cabinet early next month. One
month will be allowed for public objec-
tions, and the necessary subsequent legis-
lation should be through by September,
in ample time for an election about next
April. Some inner-metropolitan seats are
expected to lose their identity, and there
will be a number of other changes,
especially in the north. .Total number of
seats will be increased from 75 to 78,
with three zones instead of the present
four.
• •
A delegation from the Queensland
sugar industry will confer in Melbourne
this week with the chemical division of
C.5.1.R.0. The idea is to see if any
new uses can be found for sugar on a
broad enough scale to cope with surpluses,
which this year may amount to 200,000
tons.


Personal
ITEMS
“Q.”: When Australian author and
former Ambassador Paul McGuire was
invested with the Grand Cross of the
Equestrian Order of Pope St. Sylvester
•he received the oldest and one of the
most distinguished of papal orders.
McGuire, for several years Australian
Minister and Ambassador to Italy, was
Australian Envoy Extraordinary to the
Holy See on the occasion of the recent
papal coronation.
• •
The day before his 101st birthday (on
May 24) Walter Elliss, of Perth, went
to a football-match to cheer his favorite
team, East Perth, to victory over South
Fremantle, and made his first appearance
on television. The TV-operators, told
that he was present, focused the camera
on him and made him the outstanding
figure among a group of barrackers.
Elliss was born at Paradise (S.A.), but
moved to Perth to join his brother, who
then drove the Cobb 'and Co. coach
between Southern Cross and Coolgardie.
• •
The 1958 Wellcome Medal, awarded
annually by the council of the Royal
Anthropological Institute of Great
Britain and Ireland, comes tQ Dr. Ronald
M. Berndt, who has been Reader in
Anthropology in the Westralian Univer-
sity since 1955. The medal —one of the
senior awards made by the institute —is
given for research in social and cultural
changes in primitive peoples. Before
receiving the Westralian appointment Dr.
Berndt lectured on anthropology at
Sydney University, then went to London
on a Nuffield Fellowship and took his
degree as Doctor of Philosophy. His
research has been among the aborigines
of north-western N.S.W., South Australia
and the Northern Territory, including
Arnhem Land.
• •
“G.C.”: Don’t know when “Boy”
Browning was adjutant at Sandhurst (B.
27/ 5/ ’59), but it’s quite likely he learnt
the eagle-eye business from a predecessor
who was there' in my time (1916). When
Major Baillie-Hamilton was in command
of the battalion parade, it was common
to hear him bawl out: “There’s a gentle-
man in the rear rank of No. X Company
moving his eyelids. Sergeant-major, take
that gentleman’s name! ” Thereupon
Sergeant-major Wombwell would move
smartly out at the double and, posting
himself directly in front of the offending
eyelids, bawl back: “Got him, sir!”
Baillie-Hamilton himself had only one
eye (the other was left behind at Mons),
but it was a very good eye.
A member of the committee organising
the transport-calvalcade in Queensland's
centenary celebrations, W. R. F. (Bill)
Bolton is head of a 100-truck transport-
fleet which operates in the south-west
of the .State as a modern successor to
Cobb and Co. His contributions to the
procession are of historic interest —his
QUEENSLAND
restored Cobb and Co. coach, some
bullock-waggons and a Rutherford sulky.
Bill Bolton (pictured here) is an
authority on the old coaching-firm and
still has their original seal locked away
in the safe at his Toowoomba h.-q. When
the Cobb and Co. stamp was issued he
wrote to Sir Lionel Lindsay, who made
the etching, and this started a friendship
that led to Bolton's gift to Toowoomba
of the Lionel Lindsay Memorial Art
Gallery and Library. When the gallery
was opened in April by the Prime Minis-
ter, Sir Lionel and Sir Daryl Lindsay
and Will Ashton were present. The
Bulletin sent the library a set of bound
volumes.
• •
Over from Perth to do a Macquarie-
network session, Henrietta Drake-
Brockman dropped-in at The Bulletin
office. She had also brought with her,
for Angus and Robertson, the MS. of
a “Life and Journals of Pelsart”—the
Dutch navigator whose misadventures in
the Abrolhos formed the subject-matter
of her novel The Wicked and the Fair.
• •
Selected to lead the Australian trade-
union delegation at this year’s Inter-
national Labor Organisation conference
in Geneva, C. H. (Harry) Webb, former
M.H.R. for Stirling, is the first official
delegate from Westralia to the conference,
though other Westralians have attended
previously as observers. After several
years as secretary of the W.A. Loco-
motive Engineers and Firemen’s Union
he served two terms in the Federal Par-
liament, first as .member for Swan and
then for Stirling, missing-out at the last
Federal election. Since then he has been
relieving T. G. Davies as employees’
representative in the State Arbitration
Court.
• •
Dr. William Milliken breezed into
Melbourne to assist on problems which
are likely to arise in the building of the
new Art Gallery on the Wirths’ Park
site.
He is one of the foremost authorities
in the world on museums and art-
galleries, and first vice-president of the
International Council of Museums. For
nearly 30 years he was director of the
Cleveland Museum, and one of the pro-
tagonists in building the nine-million-
dollar Cleveland Arts Centre recently.
He will be in Melbourne a month as
the Gallery’s guest, and then he will call
on Lady Slim in Canberra. They are
cousins.
• •
When Sir Edmund Hillary was in the
R.N.Z.A.F. he used to fly over Scott
Knob, a peak 7030 ft. high, 50 miles west
of Blenheim. With its steep, rugged con-
tours, it offered a difficult and interesting
climb and had been on his mind ever
since. Recently he had a try at it and
reached the summit, under difficult condit-
ions, in seven hours. He’s got his eye
on other nobbly bits of the Nelson hinter-
land, too —keeping himself in form, no
doubt, for the peaks he sees on the moon
o' nights. In a few more years, atom-
bombs permitting, he may be scaling
them. Latest reports say he may try as
a National-party candidate at next year’s
general election.
• •
“E.0.M.”: The passing of Colonel
George Cattell Somerville removed one
of the best-known men in N.S.W. All
his earlier life had fitted him for the
position of secretary of the Royal Agri-
cultural Society, which he most success-
fully occupied for 30 years. When he left
Brisbane Grammar he joined his father on the
land for two years, then spent some time
in a bank before gaining a militia-commission
in the 4th Light Horse (1906). Later adjutant
of the 11th L.H., he inevitably joined and
became first adjutant of the 6th when it was
formed in August, 1914, under Lt.-Col.
“Fighting Charlie” Cox. He was at Anzac,
being badly wounded a few days before the
evacuation, then went to France, and in due
course was selected as A.Q.M.G. to Sir William
Birdwood and later Sir John Monash. After
the Armistice he was chosen as Director of
Repatriation and Demobilisation under Sir
John in London. After taking the Camberley
Staff College course, he was Base Commandant,
Victoria, when he resigned in 1924 and moved
to Sydney to take-up the R.A.S. appointment.
The Australia-wide popularity which “Barney”
enjoyed was his great strength in that R.A.S.
post. He met pastoralists and farmers at the
Shows —Royal and provincial—and helped to
spread among them the gospel of better crops,
pasture-improvement and fodder-conservation
which today, under the stimulus of the
C.5.1.R.0., is bringing Australia such remark-


able rewards. He was responsible for awaken-
ing national interest in field-competitions, of
which he was a judge for many years, and
which took him to all parts of N.S.W. It was
he, also, who achieved the affiliation of all
breeds of stock and cattle (excluding Herefords
and blood-horses), sheep, goats and dogs into
Commonwealth bodies. He became Federal
general-secretary and State-secretary of every
breed of cattle, and the concentration of all
these types of stock at the Sydney Show was
a most important part of his accomplishment.
He secured also the association of the
secondary industries, and thus, through the
Trade Exhibitions at the annual N.S.W. Royal,
the expanding Australian secondary industries
became linked with the man on the land.
Today every feature of the national life has
become the concern of the R.A.S. —in great
measure due to the foresight and organising
ability of “Barney” Somerville.
Perhaps the greatest testimony ever paid to
him was in two dinners on his retirement, one
given by the indoor staff and the other by all
the outdoor workers of the society in apprecia-
tion of his friendliness and fairness.
• •
First Westralian to be elected Federal
president of the Royal Australian Institute
of Architects, K. C. Duncan, of Perth,
has been a member of the Federal
Council of the Institute since 1956 and was
vice-president of the Westralian Chapter
and president of the Royal Institute of
Architects of W.A. before that body
affiliated with the Federal organisation.
• •
A postie named F. W. Collins has
been at the Oriel Park Depot (Q.) for
the past 23 ye'ars ; on his delivery-route
he has watched many of his postal
patrons grow-up, marry and settle-down
in the same district. He lives at Wooloo-
win, and from the gate of his comfortable
home there Mrs. Collins waves him on
his way every morning—at 5.20 a.m!
• •
Leif Gram, 24, hailing from Denmark,
sauntered into The Bulletin office,
mentioned that he’d worked as a car-
toonist and caricaturist, and was asked
to produce a caricature of himself —with
the accompanying recognisable result.
Besides being an artist, - Gram also
worked on a couple of Danish papers as
a columnist and short-story writer. He
was born on the land, went to Copen-
hagen as a lieutenant in the Danish
armored-corps and, liking the city, stayed
on for three years after his service had
ended. He looks a fair tip to make a
name for himself before he’s much older.
DENMARK
In Melbourne to say “thank-you” to
members of St. Columban’s Mission
Society is the Rt. Rev. Thomas Quinlan,
Bishop of the South Korean diocese of
Choochun. He was one of those
prisoners of the Reds who survived the
death-march along the Yalu in Korea in
1950 and 14 of their prisons for nearly
three years after that.
The Japanese, who had imprisoned
him in the Second World War, were far
kinder jailers, so Bishop Quinlan, who
does not like the Reds and does not mince
words about them, can speak with some
authority.
He will open a St. Columban’s
seminary at North Turramurra (N.S.W.)
on June 28, before returning to Korea.
• •
Tom Purcell (“Big Tom” as he was
always known, even over the last 18
months or so, when it was obvious that
he was not well and was shrinking from
his former stature) no longer sings about
The Bulletin /corridors as he did for
so long while he trundled his rolls of
newsprint or hammered away at a job
of carpentry. An original Anzac with
the 3rd Battalion, he was wounded within
36 hours of the Landing, and, still a
youngster, was discharged in 1916. There
followed a spell at canecutting in Queens-
land, and a time when he knocked-out a
few quid (and a few opponents) in various
stadium-rings. It was in 1928 that he
first turned-up at The Bulletin. The
voice of the songster will be missed in
its halls; and his passing reduces to 31
the number of staff members with service
of over 30 years.
• •
“Second Shackle”: British-born Robert
W. Service, who passed on last year in
Monte Carlo, left assets, after taxes, of
£A 132,888 —a tidy fortune by any stan-
dards, all the product of his pen. He’s
probably best remembered for his The
Spell of the Yukon, first published in
1907. Australia’s own balladists and
storytellers—men such as Henry Lawson,
“Steele Rudd” (Arthur Davis), Victor J.
Daley, “Banjo” Paterson, Randolph Bed-
ford, the talented Lindsays and many
others —never had it so good.
• •
Born in- Launceston (Tas.), Frederick
Fairthorne joined the family-firm of
wholesale druggists which his grand-
father established in 1846. That fore-
runner, who crossed to Van Dieman’s
Land in 1842 from Adelaide, was the
first legally qualified druggist in the
British Empire, because the legislation of
the then colony antedated that of England
by several years in demanding a register
of druggists qualified by examination.
With this background, Fairthorne
(pictured above) was chairman and
managing - director of the company
from 1926 until 1939, when it was
taken over by Drug Houses of
Australia, Ltd., after which he was
on the board of the parent-com-
pany until 1954. In War I on
Gallipoli with the 9th Field Battery,
finishing the war as captain, he was
a foundation-member of Launceston
Legacy and its president, 1930-32, and
has, besides, a host of interests and
responsibilities in and around his home-
town, varying from amateur football to
TASMANTA
war-veterans’ homes. He was awarded
the C.B.E. in 1946.
Into the Silence:—■
In Melbourne, at 86, Rev. G. P. Rees, for
20 years general-secretary of the Baptist Union
of Victoria and president-general of the Baptist
Union of Australia, 1947-50.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 66, Captain J. J.
Finn, formerly assistant marine-superintendent
there of the Shaw Savill Co. In War I he
was with the R.N.R. at the defence of Antwerp
and, when the fortress fell, was interned in
Holland for the rest of the war. He was later
lirst-officer of the Mamari, taking-up his shore-
job in the late 1930’s and retiring in 1954.
In Sydney, at 66, Robert Clarence Gibson,
president of the N.S.W. Primary Producers’
Union.
In Sydney, at 70, “Herbie” Collins, Austra-
lian Test-cricketer and Test-captain of the
1920’5. A bookmaker by profession, he was
held to be lucky with “the toss,” and his poker-
face added to his reputation as being a watch-
ful and shrewd cricketing tactician.
At Bathurst (N.S.W.), at 59, Police-sergeant
William Sharkey, who was awarded the King's
Medal for gallantry during the bushfires around
Trunkey. ,
In Melbourne, at 68, Reg Ellis, former Vic-
torian Shield cricketer, League footballer and
champion bowler. He was with the First Divvy
Artillery in War I.
In Melbourne, at 74, Brigadier E. M.
Williams, who, after being C.O. of the 13th
Light Horse in War I, became Administrator
of Hospitals in Damascus and Assistant Director
of Education in Egypt. Back in Australia, he
was appointed commandant of the Ist (Queens-
land) Military District.
In Melbourne, at 87, R. C. Henry, formerly
territorial comander of the Salvation Army’s
southern district, with 47 years’ service in
Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the West
Inches. One of the first Salvation Army chap-
lains to go overseas in War I, he introduced
the “Red Shield” huts for troops of War 11.
In Brisbane, at 66, J. D. Cook, one of the
founders of Moorlands, a Legacy institution
for orphaned children. He raced horses in
Brisbane and ,Toowoomba for over 20 years
and had served in the Ist A.I.F.


ABORIGINALITIES
Lawson at Grenfell
'T'he period June 12 to June 15 (which
includes next weekend) will be the
time to visit Grenfell (N.S.W.). It should
be crisp, bright weather, and it will also
be the nearest weekend to Henry
Lawson’s birthday—he was born near
Grenfell on June 17, 1867.
Grenfell is celebrating the event over
the four days, and there will be a variety
of competitions and entertainments.
Various N.S.W. country-towns have an
annual flower - festival — Orange has
cherry - blossom, Goulburn has lilac,
Grafton the jacaranda, while Bowral has
a “festival of flowers.”
Henry Lawson chose a nice time of
the year to be born, even if the wattle
isn’t out yet, and though Grenfell didn’t
have anything like that in view when
Harold J. Goodwin proposed an annual
Lawson festival, it is a thought to be
borne in mind by those who feel like
hopping into their car and heading out
that way this weekend.
* * * #
T'vroving a mob of 500 cattle through
scrub 130 miles off the beaten track
in W.A.’s nor’-west, _“Battling” Jack
McKay had the gear-teeth of his truck
ground-off by the rough going. Stripping
the gears and discarding the gearbox, the
veteran pushed-on with only his second-
gear, using a screwdriver as a gear-lever.
When asked what he would have done
if that last forward gear had gone, he
said: “I’d have turned the truck round
and driven into Katherine in reverse.”
He would have, too. —“Spooks.”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Ibrahim, 85-year-old
Sultan of Johore, died last month in
London. When I travelled by S. S.
Nieuw Holland to Singapore in 1924, my
fellow-passengers included six girls who
in Sydney had been engaged as typists for
the Johore Palace. When our ship berthed
and the port immigration-officer was
confronted by six stylish stenographers
destined for Johore, he was in a flap.
Ten minutes after he’d had a telephone-
chat to headquarters he was explaining
to the girls that the Sultan did not really
need a bevy of clerical assistants, and
that they would return home by same
vessel. Ibrahim, with the wry smile of
a youngster narrowly thwarted from
raiding Mum’s cooky-jar, cheerfully paid
the return-passages.
* * * *
“Smithfield”: While Cairns (Q.), during
those floods a few months back,
was making the national news with
authentic stories of freshwater crocodiles
being caught in backyards and salmon
being caught in Shields Street opposite
the railway-station, water restrictions
were rigidly enforced. The flood-rain
had carried away three lengths of the
main, leading from the intake to the
town supply, and the recently-completed
Behana Creek supply was cut-off because
flood debris blocked the outlet at that
end. No one worried, save the city
engineer ; Cairnsites take The Wet, and
all that goes with it, in their stride.
«. * * »
“Wommadoo”: An old bell, brought
from England in 1827 by Judith Wright's
great-great-grandfather George Wynd-
“He must know all about it when he gets a bellyache !”
ham (Red Page, 8/4/’59), now hangs on
a huge wild-olive tree at Bukkulla station,
Inverell (jSI.S.W.). At Dalwood, George
Wyndham’s home in the Hunter Valley,
the bell was used ,to rouse the assigned
servants, and no doubt to call all hands
to meals. In 1887, 17 years after George’s
death, the banks foreclosed Dalwood, and
one of the Wyndham sons, determined
to save his father's bell, went forth by
night and buried it. Some years later
it was dug up and given to Linda,
daughter of John Wyndham. She sold
it to old George's son, Hugh, who
brought it to his home, Bukkulla, still
owned by members of the Wyndham
family. Incidentally, the once-famous
Bukkulla vineyard was started from cut-
tings brought from Dalwood by pack-
horse and kept fresh by being dipped
into streams along the way. The willows
which line the banks of the Macintyre
River are said to be descended from a
riding-switch cut on Dalwood, used to
urge a -horse along the 300-mile track to
Bukkulla, and planted on the river-bank ;
and the wild-olive tree itself may, as a
seedling, have travelled the same route.
* * J *
“Manamoi”: “I.J.’s” mothercraft-
students may be right in saying of breast-
feeding (B. 6/ 5/’59) that “the cat can’t
get at it,” but in New Guinea tribes the
pig can, and habitually does. Australian
aborigines were never pig-breeders in
their tribal state, but many a binghi picca-
ninny had to contend for his birthright
with a l.tter of pups.
£ * * *
“Jesmondine”: Countess Salmagondi,
lady-of-honor to Marie De Medici when
that Florentine was married to the King
of France, was ever at outs with Henry
IV. She irked him by urging, the palace
cooks to produce food in the Tuscan
mode, and particularly Florentine stew
of meat, pickled-cabbage, eggs, anchovies,
olive-oil, vinegar and pepper ; the whole,
turbulent with garlic, would cause his
Majesty to mutter “Salmagondi!” and
stalk from the board. Hence the
corruption to “salmagundi,” virtually
meaning a hotchpotch of dishes, which
Aboites have lately been guessing over.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: If Bernard Hesling
went off the. rails in imagining that, as
a lad in England, he heard of Australia's
taipan before that snake-name had been
invented (B. 27/5/'59), his “intelligent
anticipation” had nothing on the feat
performed by Neville Cardus in a book
entitled English Cricket. After getting
into his stride by prattling of batsman-
ship that possessed “longitude, opulence,
and regnancy,” and after depicting the
“terrible realism and cunning” of Austra-
lians, Nevvy confides that when an
English team sailed for Australia in 1861
this hapless land was known simply as
“Down Under” and was “supposedly in-
habited mainly by Ned Kelly and his
band.” Well, well! The Kelly lads, it’s
true, were thoroughly enterprising, but
(and even given the retrospective support
MAN FROM DREAMTIME
A man from the dreamtime
Stood in the shade of the pub.
The live coals of his eyes,
His narrow, workless hands
Held ■
The reproach of the despoiled.
“Gibbit,” he murmured, wary.
And we, who had taken all,
Wondered, in a hurry,
If. two-bob would pay the bill.
VIC.
MARY FINNIN.


CAT-AND-MOUSE GAME


of Neville Cardus) they can scarcely be
credited with having agitated England
nearly 20 years before their revels began.
Ned himself, in fact, was only six-years
old in 1861 —and Dan was just making
up his mind to be born!
* * * *
“Harbel”: The French are not alone
in putting a stroke across their figure
seven, thus making the numeral appear
something like the letter “f” (story, “A
Night For Twenty Francs,” B. 20/5/’59);
the Dutch also do it. I cince taught a
Dutch apprentice who had what tech.-
teachers dream of: an aptitude for both
practical work and theory. His was the
kind of intellect that enabled him to
learn to speak almost perfect English
within two years of coming to Australia,
score top marks of all students in all
trades at his college, and gain a State
"Just up to the bus-stop, Bert — I'm running late!"
award in his tech.-exams one year. Yet,
despite his natural nous and ability to
concentrate, he just could not learn to
omit the stroke across figure seven when
doing Trade Calculations.
* * * *
“Alluc”: Our sergeant of police had
vowed to stamp-out sales of liquor to
the aborigines. Seeing a colored boy
at the show well under the influence
he stopped him: “You’re drunk.” The
boy: “Yes, sarge, that’s right. I’m
drunk. In fact, I’m very drunk. But
where did l get it? That’s the question.”
* * * *
“Merino”: Worth recording that in
this year, 1959, a 22-year-old head-stock-
man of Yacamunda (Q.) won 146.square-
miles of Australia located 30 miles south-
east of Charters Towers. He will pay an
annual rental of £562 for the first 10
years.
* * * *
“Glen Park”: When Mildura (Vic.)
big-game fisherman Alf Dean landed at
Ceduna (S.A.) a white-pointer weighing
26641 b. on a 39-thread line he broke the
all-tackle world-record of 23501 b. for
sharks set by Bob Dyer.
Hi Hi H* $
“Corio”: Despite the assistance of 30
exuberant hounds, the Oaklands (Vic.)
Hunt Club could rustle-up only two hares
during their opening meet near Mel-
bourne. Reynard must have had an
appointment in someone’s chicken-coop.
H* 7 * * *
“D.E.M.M.”: Mas prize Australorps
were having a whale of a time on the
fallen fruit under the damsons when the
lord of the run got one stuck in his
throat. A hen sidled up with an I-told-
you-so look in her eye, inspected the
gaping beak from all angles, then with one
peck removed the offending plum and
scoffed it herself.
“Spin”: A parrot that’s interesting
without being exactly rare is the rock-
parrot of sou’-Westralia. Parrots aren’t
usually regarded as water-birds, but any-
one seeking this bloke's nest can expect
to get a ducking from ocean spray. The
birds nest on small islands dotted around
the coast, a few miles offshore, or
occasionally on cliffs overhanging the
ocean, and the nests are often just small
depressions in limestone rock ; and they
feed off the seeds of maritime plants
growing on the islands or fly across to
the mainland and feed along the beaches
and sand-dunes. This parrot belongs to
the same genus, Neophema, as the
Bourke-parrot; and there may be some
explanation why birds so closely related
should choose such different habitats.
The Bourke-parrot inhabits the drier
parts of the inland.
* * * *
The Leichhardt Legend
HPHis being Queensland's centenary
year, it was to be expected that bits
and pieces would be added to the mass
of material, real or imaginary, surround-
ing the name of Ludwig Leichhardt.
Sure enough, one Queensland letter-
writer has come up with a statement that
he possesses a gold locket which was
given to his mother, in her girlhood, by
Oscar de Satge when he was about to
leave Gowrie station (Toowoomba) with
Leichhardt on the “ill-fated 1846 trek.”
In fact, Oscar de Satge was not a
member of any Leichhardt party, and,
for another small point, the journey of
1846, though a complete washout, w'as
not precisely “ill-fated” —that term re-
lates to the expedition of 1848, which
set out from near the site of the present
Roma and has been on the “missing
friends” list ever since.
Another dip into Leichhardtiana (again
in a letter to a Brisbane newspaper)
comes from a man who says that about
65 years ago, in the Roma district, an old
aboriginal woman allowed it to be known
that “Leichhardt had been killed by her
tribe and that she had eaten her share.”
As The Bulletin sagely remarked
back in 1880, “Leichhardt and his men
must have been killed over and over
again.” Possibly they, or some of them,
were in fact obliterated by the blacks ;
but it’s also possible that fire, flood,
starvation, or even rebellion in the party
brought the expedition to a sticky end.
In any event —and in spite of the old
woman’s cannibalistic'confession —all the
evidence indicates that the collapse
occurred not near the starting-point, but
much farther inland. -
Y'et another recent letter-writer has
given a new twist to th.e Leichhardt
legend, his claim being that the German
explorer “could live off the land and
cure and heal his companions when they
were ill and speared by the natives.”
The truth is, as the records of two
Leichhardtian expeditions reveal, the
leader himself was a complete no-hoper
at living off the land ; and, in the matter
of curing ills, his chief contribution was
to steal greenstuffs intended for invalids
and secretly help himself to reserve stores.
That aside, it’s quite clear from the
records that his “medical” knowledge
was virtually a minus quantity.
Add to latter-day Leichhaidtiana, too,
a letter to the Melbourne “Age,” the
writer of which, Gertrude K. Rusden,
of Surrey Hills (Vic.), says that her
father was “one of the last two white
men” to see Leichhardt and his party.
She adds that her father, a friend of
the natives, was very annoyed over
Leichhardt's thrashing of a blackfellow,
and that “he always afterwards called
Leichhardt a Prussian —which he was.”
Since records of the expedition of
1844-45 reveal that Leichhardt often fell
into trouble with his abo. assistants, the
nature of Miss Rusden’s statement isn’t
surprising. Rather more interesting, it
seems to me, is the fact that this letter
has come from a one-generation link
with events of April, 1848.
Some of us tend, no doubt, to regard
the Leichhardt legend as being some-
what ancient in origin ; and yet here is
a woman of today writing of what her
father told her regarding his personal
contact with the lost explorer—a mere
matter of 111 years ago.
SIOSAL.


ROCKET POWER
/
w.
/
/
Gives you all these
advantages. . •
• ROCKET POWER!
6 More miles per gallon
• Cosier starting
• Smoother, quieter running
% Longer engine life
% Cast acceleration
Australia's FIRST
BORON Petrol
Ampol Boron Special is Australia’s
only Boron petrol. It is the best
petrol you can buy! Test it your-
self. Fill up with Ampol Boron
Special to-day! Costs no more
than the Super Grade petrols it
replaces. Get rocket power for the
road at no extra cost.
NOTHING MATCHES BORON!
F»OL ~ AUSTRALIAIV OW


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urqujiart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the ,Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone Cables & Telegrams
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327 “EMDECELEX.” Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address : Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Linwar, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
MUCH MARKET ADO
'T'he upsurge in Australian
sharemarkets has been
prodigious. Whether it is still
due to London and/or Aus-
tralian institutional buying, or
to the ordinary investor trying
to anticipate that type of buy-
ing, it is now hard to say, but
the fact remains that nearly
all previous tide-marks have
been engulfed by the new price-
levels.
Yields are down to new
“lows” as share-prices rise to
new “highs.” Again the ques-
tion must be asked, “How low
can you get?”
A dance of the elephants was
performed by C.S.R. shares as
June opened. Over two days
the twenty-pounders jumped
£5 to £6O, then bumped back
to £55 155., and later settled at
£5B 2s. 6d. These shares usually
make moves of half-a-crown
at a time.
B.H.P. notched a record
565. for the fully-paids, with
355. for the rights.
Both C.S.R. and B.H.P.
showed an immediate yield of
about 3 p.c.
Among the few market
favorites to be bypassed in
the new upsurge were the two
leading chain-stores, Coles and
Wool worths. Their growth in
share-capital appears to be
slowing-down; and it was
capital-growth that was so
attractive in the past.
Henry Jones, around 535.
about three weeks ago, reach-
ed 60s. This company has yet
to make any real post-war
capital or dividend readjust-
ment that may at the appro-
priate time be deemed fit and
proper. It therefore appears
to have merit for holding even
at present high prices and 3.3
p.c. yield. But the board will
move only in its own good
time.
Most of the other stocks
mentioned in these pages
recently as likely to show real
income-growth over the next
three years have been taken
to higher market-levels by
investors. Regardless of im-
mediate market ups-and-downs,
it was their three-year pro-
spects which were emphasised
here.
Tohn Fairfax (Sydney) shares
** soared to 635. and reacted to
60s. The holding in Australian
Newsprint Mills is estimated by
the sharemarket (at 435. per
Newsprint share) to be worth
more than the nominal value
of the Fairfax £4 million of
“According to this, We're broke?"
capital. And the 51 p.c. hold-
ing in Amalgamated Tele-
vision is now reputed to be
earning big money, though its
competitor, Television Cor-
poration, is probably doing
better.
Television Corporation
(Channel 9) confirmed expecta-
tions by declaring an interim
dividend of 10 p.c., though the
board has informed the Stock
Exchange that this does not
necessarily mean there will be
a final of 10 p.c., making 20
p.c for the year. It is a pity
at this stage of intense specula-
tion that the board can’t make
up its mind on the point, or
at least infer what it does ex-
pect the minimum to be.
Television Corp. has done
very well. It has achieved the
div.-paying stage on a paid-up
capital of £966,000. At the
worst point a loss of £250,962
had been incurred for the first
nine months’ transmission. In
the second year it made a
profit of £36,689 after provid-
ing £101,601 for depreciation.
At last balance-day its accounts
showed a debit of £214,273.
On the strength of the 10 p.c.
interim and reports of overseas
commercial TV profits the
sharemarket is paying 38s. 6d.
for the 10s. shares.
TVavid Syme and Co., Ltd.,
has an interest in General
Television Corporation (GTV
Channel 9), and is the sole com-
petitor to the Melbourne
“Herald” group of dailies in
Melbourne.
On June 3 Melbotirne “Sun
News - Pictorial” (in the
“Herald” group), commenting
on the rise of John Fairfax
(“Sydney Morning Herald”)
shares to 635. in Melbourne,
said that it was linked with
a market rumor that the Fair-
fax group was making an offer
for David Syme shares in order
to gain control of “The Age.”
(David Syme shares had shot-
up to 585.)
It added that H. R. Syme,
general manager, and Oswald
Syme, chairman, had no know-
ledge of any current offer from
the Fairfaxes, though in
1946 the Fairfax group did
make an offer, which was un-
acceptable.
That afternoon Warwick
Fairfax in Sydney announced
tersely that there was no truth
whatever in the takeover
rumor. (David Syme shares
moved up to 625. 6d.).
Many people away from the
Stock Exchanges were relieved
to hear the statement, in view
of the fact that control of the
press, radio and television in
Australia is becoming increas-
ingly concentrated in too few
hands, and independent opinion
and expression is daily becom-
ing more restricted.
At a stage where financial
finesse is growing more
and more a feature of Big Busi-
ness —some of the very biggest
these days are resorting to
various types of financial ex-
pedients, including the raising
of fixed-interest note-money,
in order to defer the dividend
commitment, and at the same
time lessening the impact
of double taxation that is the
ever-present burden of the in-
corporated business it is
refreshing indeed to have an
announcement by Allied Mills,
Ltd., of a second share-issue
at par this year—again one-
for-four.
The new issue will lift paid
capital to around a million, in-
cluding £200,000 of 5 p.c. prefs.
This interesting flourmilling-
cum - baking - cum - margarine
group has done wonderfully
well over the past five years,
and was reviewed at length in
B. 18/2/’59. It owns two-
thirds of the shares in Mow-
bray Pty., Ltd., makers of
Daffodil margarine, the other
two-thirds being owned by
flourmillers Gillespie Bros.,
which was recently listed on
Sydney ’Change.
TJackground effects to the
phenomenal sharemarket
activity have been a slackening
in wool prices again and a lift
of 15s. a week in the Federal
basic wage. In N.S.W. the State
award was already Bs. above the
old Federal award, but 7s.
below the new award of £l4 3s.
a week.
Another indicator of pro-
bably more-than just one com-
pany’s trading experience was


m
w
A.N.Z. BANK
A.N.Z. BANK
Savings
Account#
...
Cheque
Accounts
yM -4', ■'///./" ' /y ,
Two banks with one door
All the benefits of Cheque and Savings Accounts at the
one office to save you time and trouble. When you have
your own A.N.Z. Cheque Account it is so easy to pay bills
without bother and the risk of carrying cash.
A.N.Z. Savings Accounts too, are part of the modern,
efficient banking service now being used by thousands of
people in every walk of life.
Remember, A.N.Z. BANK is distinguished by its quick,
personal service and by this shield . . ,
A-N-Z
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED —Savings Accounts
ANZ4B9. IBSB'
the half-yearly report of
Gollin Holdings. Gollin’s
have a world-wide marketing
empire, and are universal pro-
viders in a wholesale sense.
The organisation is under the
control of seven managing-
directors.
The Gollin half-yearly report
says that sales for the period
were maintained, but that in-
creased costs and general
trading conditions resulted in
a decline in profits. The
dividend was maintained at
7y p.c.
That would summarise busi-
ness conditions being experi-
enced at the moment by many
other trading concerns in the
Commonwealth. But under-
neath this there is the feeling
that the base of our industries
is broadening and that our
capacity to produce is increas-
ing rapidly. Also that we are
establishing stronger links in
overseas trade and finance on
a much wider scale than in the
past.
Notwithstanding our obvious
advances, in buying shares on
the present market regard must
be given to individual cases.
Many of our bigger enter-
prises have reached the stage
where increment will be com-
paratively small in relation to
their present size.
Acid' and Superphosphate
TJresent difficulties, but
■*- favorable long-term pros-
pects, of the superphos-
phate industry have been indi-
cated by L. B. Robinson,
chairman of Consolidated
Zinc:
Sulphuric-acid production and
sales- by Sulphide Corporation were
thei highest on record, with deliveries
to industrial consumers in the New-
castle area being 14 per cent,
higher than in 1957, the previous
record year.
On the other hand, super-
phosphate sales fell by over 4 per
cent, due mainly' to the recession
in the fortunes of the pastoral
industry resulting from the effects
of the dry season in 1957 and from
the marked decline in wool prices.
Such temporary factors do not
alter the long-term view that the
future demand for superphosphate
is likely to show a marked upward
trend ; additions have been made
to the storage-capacity for raw
material and finished product in
anticipation of this.
The growing trend towards
pasture - improvement should
stimulate the demand for most
types of artificial fertilisers.
Reid Murray in Queensland
TThe long-awaited move by
Reid Murray to Queens-
land has come with the
acquisition of Torbreck Pty.,
Ltd. —a promoting and build-
ing company. This move
emphasises the spread of Reid
Murray interests to the real-
estate and development field.
Over the=,past six months Reid
Murray has acquired similar
businesses in the form of Real
Property Development Pty.,
and New Constructions, Ltd.
Torbreck’s small capital of
£lB,OOO is believed to have
fetched £54,000 cash. The
company is at present sponsor-
ing the building of a million-
pound 150-unit block of flats
and -home-units, and has
advanced plans for further
expansion.
Thomas Brown Bonus
the sixth year in succes-
A sion the London-based
Queensland merchants,
Thomas Brown, will make a
bonus-issue to shareholders.
This year’s one-for-14 bonus
follows a one-for-one in 1954
and a one-for-10, -11, -12 and
-13 in succeeding years.
The bonus will raise capital
by a further £27,000 to
£656,000 sterling, and will be
made out of property reserve.
On the final dividend of a
shilling a share, free of U.K.
tax (2s. for the year) the “A”
ordinary shares, cf/w-bonus,
yield 7.2 p.c. at their current
price of 355.
Australian Salt Dome
[From L. Owen]
V)Uhen Wapet’s Frome Rocks
** No. 1 well struck salt at
2263 ft. in mid-January of this
year it was a great surprise, as
it was the first time that rock-
salt, in a deposit several
hundred feet thick, had been
encountered on the Australian
mainland.
The strike would have been
less surprising had a letter —
written by two members of the
staff of the Bureau of Mineral
Resources and dealing with the
Woolnough Hills —been avail-
able at the time. The letter in
question was dated Canberra,
December, 1958, but it was
printed in the Jan.-Feb., 1959,
issue of the “Australian
Journal of Science,” which
did not reach general sub-
scribers until early March.
This interesting, appropriate
and remarkably coincidental
epistle contains the following
information.
Woolnough Hills, named
after the late Dr. W. G. Wool-
nough, is located near the sup-
posed southern limit of the
Canning Basin, at Lat. 24°
O' S., Long. 124° 32' E.,
within the Gibson Desert,
some 370 miles s.-e. of Marble
Bar, and was photographed by
the R.A.A.F.
A B.M.R. party visited the
area in June, 1956, and
reported the structure as con-
sisting of a Permian and Cre-
taceous dome with a core of
Upper Proterozoic dolomite.
The steepest measurable dip
on the dome is 15 deg.—as
compared with 2 deg. in the
surrounding country. Topo-
graphically, Woolnough Hills
is expressed as an inner dis-
continuous ring—almost circu-
lar and 4500 ft. in diameter—■


A. L. NEVITT,
Cround
Phone:' 31 2761
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. C. DRAPER, R. A. MeINNES, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Floor, The National Mutual Life Building:,
207 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
(4 Lines) ' P.O. Box No. 1887 W
J. T. HARRY & DIXON
(Eric E. Dixon, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
113 Pitt St., Telephone: BL 1987
Sydney Tel. Add.: “Harry Stock Exchange,” Sydney
of low hills up to 50ft. high
enclosing a saucer-shaped de-
pression covered with rubble,
clay soil and powdery traver-
tine, with a mound of dolo-
mite in the centre.
In October, 1958, one of the
authors of the letter, observ-
ing how closely the air-photo-
graph agreed with descriptions
of American Gulf Coast salt-
domes, suggested that Wool-
nough Hills was probably one
also. It is estimated that the
doming occurred in the Terti-
ary and that the suspected
salt-core is of Permian or pre-
Permian age.
A reproduction of the air-
photograph is printed with the
letter. That —and the geologi-
cal data obtained by the 1956
B.M.R. party —leaves little
room for doubt that we have
in Woolnough Hills a salt-
dome structure. As such, it is
certainly worthy of detailed
study and testing, and it is
rather surprising that this has
not been done already.
Perhaps, after the experi-
ence, in 1940, of drilling
through over 2000 ft. of
igneous rock at Miauri
(Papua)—in what looked like
a domal structure in the air-
photographs the present
organisation may be wary of
repeating the performance of
its predecessors.
If the structure does harbor
oil it will be a fitting memorial
to Dr. Woolnough, who—like
many other geologists who had
the courage to be unorthodox
where geological conditions
demanded it —more than de-
serves any recognition (unfor-
tunately posthumous) which
can be given him.
“Bold Century”
"Entertaining for its in-
■*—' tensely interesting collec-
tion of illustrations—profusely
supplied and splendidly
printed—as well as for its
central story, Bold Century
has been published by the New
Zealand Insurance Company,
Ltd., to markv. its centennial
year.
The Bulletin, in its “Wild
Cat Column,” has recorded the
progress of N.Z. Insurance
each year for most of its hun-
dred years, but actually the
insurance co. had 21 years’
starl on The Bulletin. “The
New Zealand” was formed on
May 21, 1859, really as an
aftermath of a 1 disastrous fire
in Auckland, so that the
founders of the co. —headed
by Thomas Russell —were
obviously inspired by a public
interest as well as a financial
one when they decided to
underwrite the risk of the same
thing happening again—or
again and again.
In its first year it suffered
the indignity of having a fire
in its own (uninsured!) office ;
but the records were saved. A
new manager, George Patrick
Pierce, took-over in Decem-
ber, 1860, and had greatly to
do with the solid foundations
established by the co. over the
next 31 years of his control.
Auckland’s second dis-
astrous fire occurred in 1863,
but the N.Z.’s alacrity in pay-
ing its claims brought it pub-
licity that more than offset the
actual losses of the time, and
in five years it had taken first
place among the underwriters
in the colony, and from the
beginning was able to reward
its shareholders handsomely.
Each insurance co. had its
own fire-brigade in those days,
helped by garrison troops.
When the Maori Wars began
the fire hazard increased—and
in 1865 the seat of Govern-
ment (with the garrison) was
transferred from Auckland to
Wellington. The co. was
spurred thereafter to greater
branch activity, as well as
improving the local fire-
brigades. Arson was a curious
problem of this period.
Difficulties arising from
premium-cutting in New Zea-
land forced the company into
the more remunerative over-
seas field early in its Me, with
rapid expansion in the ’eighties
to most parts of the world.
The Californian earthquake
of 1906 found the company in
the proud position of being
able to display a notice, in
6ft.-high letters: “Prove your
policies. We pay 100 per cent.”
in the midst of the ruins of
its San Francisco office. Again
this was wonderfully valuable
publicity for the company,
which was becoming better-
known throughout the world
than the country of its origin.
Bold Century deals with the
underwriting hazards of ships,
“The Risks of Speed” (the
tethal motor-car), two World
Wars, aircraft and —again—
earthquakes. On February 3,
1931, the Hawke’s Bay district
of New Zealand suffered the
worst disaster ever Jo strike
the “Shivery Isles.” The earth
rumbled. A cliff-face overlook-
ing the port road at Napier
crumbled and fell in a cloud
of dust *-on the traffic below.
The earth heaved .violently,
roads split open, and cars fell
into the crevasses. • A porter
asleep on the third floor of a
hotel was projected, bed and
all, into the street. A maid
having a bath in the same hotel
found herself in the street —
still in the bath. A second
shock raised the bed of the
ocean and ships at the wharves
became aground. The seabed
subsided, and they floated
again. Out in the roadstead
crews of vessels had an
unpleasant audience-participa-
tion watching the whole
violent process of Nature.
Fire followed the earth-
quake, and in Napier 150
people lost their lives. In
Hawke’s Bay province the
total deaths were 283.
With all these experiences to
guide it, N.Z. Insurance has
built, financially, on very
solid foundations. By 1945 it
was drawing 80 p.c. of its
income from overseas, and
following the prudent policy,
established early in its life, of
paying dividends to share-
holders only out of investment
income, leaving the under-
writing surplus to swell the
investment portfolio.
Through insurance and re-
insurance its risks are world-
wide. When a British Comet
airliner crashed in India in
1953 (one of the first of the
then - mysterious Comet
crashes), with the loss of 37
passengers, insurance claims
totalled around £700,000. In
the collision between the two
large U.S. airliners over the
Grand Canyon in 1956, all 128
occupants were killed. The
co. was involved in all these
heavy claims.
And so to the Atomic Age:
In the United States, in Britain
and on the Continent atomic-energy
insurance-pools have been formed
with the backing of the active under-
writing firms in each region. The
New Zealand Insurance Company
is a member of these pools. As
such, it is prepared to bear its
share of material or property-
damage losses caused by accidents
arising from the use of nuclear-
fission plants and machinery, as
well as liability losses resulting from
accidental radioactive contamina-
tion. As nuclear power is given
a more general application in trans-
port and industry, so the company
will be prepared to underwrite the
everyday hazards of the new age.
“Wat-risk” insurance, ot
course, is a different thing
from cover for accidents
arising from the industrial use
of nuclear power.
Bold Century is an apt title.
The founders were venture-
some, and the co.’s early
management was audacious in
taking its agencies to parts of
the world at a time when New
Zealand itself was regarded as
untamed cannibal country. To-
day the co. has 115 branches
and sub-branches in 21 coun-
tries, and represents one of
N.Z.’s principal “invisible
exporters.”
The book is an absorbing
history, in picture and prose,
of several aspects of New
Zealand’s social and financial
development. It is a first-class
production.
Trade Pact
[From Canberra]
A ustralian and Canadian
officials have completed
negotiations for a completely
new trade-agreement to replace
the existing one, which was
drawn-up in 1931.
Delegations from both
countries met in Canberra to
plan the basis of a new agree-
ment based on more reciprocal
trade.
The delegations are now
preparing reports for submis-
sion to their respective Govern-
ments, which will then officially
draw-up the new pact.
Although the Minister for
Trade, John McEwen, did not
take part in the actual dis-
cussions, he has been the
driving-force behind the nego-
tiations.
He first suggested a new
agreement when in Montreal
for the British Commonwealth
Economic Conference last year,
and has been agitating for it
ever since.
The decision of the Canadian
Government to send a dele-
gation out here was a personal
triumph for McEwen.
Coincidental with the com-
pletion of negotiations, an
Australian trade - mission
returned from Canada has
given an encouraging report to
the Government.


COMPANY REPORT
New Broken Hill Consolidated Limited
Mr. L. B. Robinson's Review: Higher Grade and Lower Costs Help Offset Low Metal Prices
The Twenty-third Annual Meeting of the Company will
be held at 37 Dover Street, London, W.l, on the 23rd
June, 1959. The following extracts are from the state-
ment by the Chairman (Mr. L. B. Robinson) which has
been circulated in advance.
The low level of lead and
zinc prices prevailing at the
end of 1957 continued during
the first three quarters of 1958
and showed only a slight
improvement in the last
quarter. The average London
Metal Exchange prices for
prompt delivery of these metals
during 1958 were £72 16s. for
lead and £65 18s. Id. for zinc,
compared with £96 13s. 4d. and
£81 12s. 4d. respectively during
1957. At the 1958 price levels
there can normally be little
profit from mining these
metals, but, due partly to the
average assay of the ore pro-
duced during the year being
higher than that of recent
years, partly to a reduction of
operating costs and partly to
some satisfactory forward con-
tracts, a trading balance of
£1,037,063 was achieved, com-
pared with £1,904,035 for 1957.
The profit before taxation
amounted to £696,303, com-
pared with £1,591,313 for 1957.
The company is an Over-
seas Trade Corporation and is
subject to United Kingdom
income tax (less double tax re-
lief) on its trading income to
the extent that this is distri-
buted as dividends. It is also
subject to U.K. income tax
and profits tax on its non-
trading income, less double tax
relief. The provision for Aus-
tralian and United Kingdom
taxation on the profits for the
year amounts to £219,986, com-'
pared with £534,217 for 1957.
The result is a net profit -for
the year of £476,317, compared
with £1,057,096 for 1957.
An interim dividend of 6d.
per share, free of tax, has been
paid, compared with 2s. per
share, less income tax, which
was equivalent to Is. 1.8d. per
share free of tax last year.
The directors are recom-
mending that a final dividend
should be paid at the rate of
lOd. per share, free of tax,
compared with 3s. per share,
less income tax, which was
equivalent to Is. 8.7d. per
share free of tax last year. This
gives a total distribution for
the year v of Is. 4d. per share
free of tax, compared with 5s.
per share less income tax for
1957, which was equivalent to
2s. free of tax.
PRODUCTION
As I mentioned in my state-
ment to you last year, in the
prevailing conditions of world
markets in which a surplus of
lead and zinc had developed,
the Company, in conjunction
with The Zinc Corporation
Limited, budgeted for a re-
duced production of ore and
recoverable metals in 1958.
This policy will be continued
until such time as a more
favorable outlook for these
metals justifies a return to nor-
mal operating conditions.
There was a reduction of
approximately 27 per cent, in
the tonnage of ore treated in
1958, and production of re-
coverable lead during the year
was 12 per cent, below the 1957
tonnage. Zinc concentrate out-
put was lower by 23 per cent.
Despite the substantial reduc-
tion in ore treated, the aver-
age cost per ton of ore was
only slightly higher in 1958
compared with the previous
year.
As reported last year,
arrangements were concluded
with the unions in February,
1958, for a suspension of
operations throughout the
Broken Hill field on one day
per fortnight, which was later
altered to one week in 10
weeks. This is equivalent to
a reduction of 10 per cent, in
working time. Nevertheless,
the budgeted reduction of out-
put would, in the ordinary
course, still have rendered re-
dundant a proportion of our
labor force, but, in order to do
our utmost to obviate this,
employees were transferred
from production to develop-
ments. We sincerely hope that
we may continue to be able
to avoid retrenchments.
dfg
WHITE LEADS—
EXPLORATION
Preparations were put in
hand towards the close of 1958
to dewater the old White Leads
mine workings for a pro-
gramme of underground
sampling and general explora-
tion. Active work in these
small, shallow workings, which
are situated on the Company’s
leases approximately 2\ miles
south of the main shaft on the
general trend of the line of
lode, ceased shortly after the
termination of World War I.
SHAFT DEVELOPMENTS
Work is in hand on Nos. 21
and 22 Levels to deepen the
Service Shaft, which now oper-
ates to No. 22 Level, to a depth
of approximately 3832 feet.
This will enable the shaft to
operate down to No. 26 Level,
and is part of the programme
to open up the lower levels for
future mining of the lead lode
ore bodies.
EMPLOYEES AND
INDUSTRIAL
RELATIONS
The Company and the Zinc
Corporation were affected by
an agreement made in 1950
which was interpreted to re-
quire that, in the case of re-
trenchments by any company
on the Broken Hill field, em-
ployees of any other company
who would not have qualified
as local men for employment
prior to that agreement would
be replaced by local men. Out
of the total of 92 employees of
the Zinc Corporation who
were affected, a number left
of their own accord, but,
unfortunately, the two com-
panies have been required
under this agreement to
arrange for the replacement of
63 men by a similar number
of local men retrenched by the
other two companies in the
field.
CONCLUSION
At the time of writing this
statement a United Nations
Conference on lead and zinc
is being held in New York.
Until the outcome of this con-
ference is known, it is difficult
for me to add any useful obser-
vations on the future outlook
for these metals. The picture
may be clearer by the date of
our Annual General Meeting,
when I propose to review the
position in the light of our
knowledge at that date.
May 4, 1959.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Autobiographical O’Neill
At least one reviewer will not
easily forget the brave and
devoted work the Trust Players
are currently doing on Eugene
O’Neill’s autobiographical
“Long Day’s Journey into
Night” (Elizabethan), for it
is by far the best new' play
to reach Sydney for years,
ranking in structure arid power
with the great naturalistic plays
of Ibsen and Strindberg.
Strindberg once said some-
thing to the effect that whereas
false naturalism believed in
merely presenting Nature in a
natural way, the greater natural-
ism looked for the places where
decisive battles are fought.
That is what O’Neill has done
here.
His emotional battlefield is
an old seaside house soaked
with heat and fog (a haunting
stage-design by Wendy
Dickson), with the foghorns
softly moaning on the bay
outside through a long summer
day. The combatants are a
family of four tangled people
locked in a stalemate of self-
deception, guilt, mistrust and
resentment; and it is virtually
impossible to separate them
with words without shattering
the intricate clarity of O’Neill’s
composition.
The play has little movement
except inward and downward
through the struggles of the
characters with themselves and
each other; there is no “resolu-
tion” in the ordinary sense,
and the only semblance of a
dramatic catharsis comes in
a final tableau of the family
stripped down to the tragic
attitudes of truth.
Whether or not you accept
O’Neill’* implicit fatalism —
that no one can help being
what he is, that no one is
finally to blame for anything,
that life reduces people like
this against their will —the
impact of the play is staggering.
Form, content and expression
are united into a complete
dramatic organism, trembling
with truth and a dark com-
passion.
One got these impressions
from reading the play before
going to see it; and perhaps
its terrific impact in print led
one into the error of expecting
more from the staging than
any staging could give. That,
anyhow, is the only way of
accounting for one’s failure
to respond completely to Robin
Lovejoy’s production. One
could find no definable fault
in it —except, perhaps, the
pace, which, probably out of
deference to transport time-
tables, was a bit too lively—■
yet it gave something of the
impression you get from
talking to a person who has
been to a strange country
you have only read about, has
responded to it, but cannot
quite tell you exactly how it
was. Every approach was
right, and yet ... I
But even if one could define
a fault it would be churlish
to do so, for, all in all, this
is one of Mr. Lovejoy’s most
impressive conceptions. It
reveals qualities that will sur-
prise even his most devoted
admirers, and it gives theatre-
goers something to think
about for a long time. A
production can’t fairly be asked
for more.
The actors, too, showed so
much understanding and un-
selfconscious dedication that
again it seems churlish to pick
at them.
As the actor-father whose
miserliness, induced by a
terrible childhood, has choked
his art, turned his wife into a
morphine-addict and twisted
both his sons, Frank Waters
thrust overstatement aside and
placed himself firmly in rela-
tion to the other players. True,
he did not reach into every
last corner of the role, but
what he reached he reached
with certainty and honesty and
warmth.
_The mother a woman
reduced by pain, love, resent-
ment and guilt into a “ghost
haunting the past”—is a
formidable part, calling for
much quick shading and shift-
ing of emotion. In what might
have been the performance of
her career to date, Dinah Shear-
ing played it with a technique
that beautifully enclosed its
every complexity.
Neil Fitzpatrick caught the
anguish of the tortured younger
son (O’Neill) with simplicity
and candor, failing only in his
quest for the deep overtones
of the long lyrical passages in
the last act.
Ron Haddrick, whose tech-
nical ease has already turned
him into one of those actors
you look forward to, made an
impressive compound of the
elder brother’s resentment of
his father, love and disgust for
his mother and jealous love of
his brother.
J. A.
❖
Ingrid Haebler
The Viennese pianist opened
the first of her two Sydney
recitals at the Assembly Hall
with two Domenico Scarlatti
“When he carries-on like that, just say nothing
and saw Wood”
sonatas toccata- like minia-
tures, quite emotionless, which
call for the cool, crisp, precise
touch. They were given this,
plus, in the more melodious
C Major, with its variations
on the descending 10-note
scale-passage, fine tone-control
at high speed.
Mozart’s D Minor Fantasy,
K. 397, light in thematic weight
but replete with graceful figura-
tions, is as beautiful an exposi-
tion of free-fantasia writing as
can be found in the literature,
and Miss Haebler, using a
lovely light touch which
pointed-up the little work’s
elegances, always succeeded in
giving the impression that she
was improvising.
In the same composer’s A
Major Sonata, K. 331 his
most famous essay in the form
—the theme was stated with
the utmost simplicity ; the six
variations on it were models
of lucidity; the minuet was
exquisitely tender, and Turkish
feet marched at the double —
a very quick double —through
the celebrated rondo.
Of much weightier material
was Schubert’s G Major
Sonata, Op. 78, in which the
pianist used the left hand to
good effect in emphasising the
passionate outbursts that inter-
rupt the second subject’s
rhythmic smoothness. The
varying moods of the andante
were skilfully probed ; there
was restrained strength in the
minuet, and in the final move-
ment the pedal was used with
complete appreciation of this
delicate musical fabric.
The recital was topped-off
with a facile and polished ver-
sion of Chopin’s Grand Valse
Brillante in E Flat Major.
In the two sonatas—the
Haydn in E Flat, Op. 52, and
the Mozart in C Minor, K. 457
—that opened Miss Haebler’s
second recital, the Mozart
adagio was most finely felt ;
at times in other movements
you were allowed to see
through to the banal argumen-
tation that holds the big
moments together.
In the Schumann “Scenes
from Childhood” she had more
of Cortot’s charm and poetry
than of Solomon’s wit; in six
of Debussy’s preludes, she had
his complete range of swiftly
changing colorations from
cold, limpid staccati to dulled
and sustained iridescence ; yet,
maybe because it followed the
Debussy, the finest thing in the
recital —full of poetry and soft,
clear, warm color—was the
Chopin Mazurka she did as an
encore.


HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE
& INVESTMENT CO. LIMITED
Paid-up Capital, £700,000
Assets exceed £1,600,000
TERM DEPOSITS
Bearing interest at the following rates per annum:—
3 months .... 5%
6 months •. • 5%%
9 months .... 6%
12 months •. 6V*%
13 mths. & over 7%
•
INTEREST PAYMENTS: Quarterly at the
end of March, June, September, December.
Total tangible assets as stated in the Audited
Balance Sheet at 31.12.58 £1,613,316
LESS: Secured Liabilities £147,967
Unsecured Liabilities . 637,087 785,054
Net tangible assets £828,262
G. T. Hartigan & Co., Chartered Accountants
(A ust.)
Deposits may be withdrawn on 30 days’ notice.
Complete printed details, with Balance Sheet and
Application Forms, from
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE
& INVESTMENT CO. LIMITED
William and Crown Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone: FA 0322
And all members of Sydney Stock Exchanxt HDSS3
“The Creation”
Maybe it is unfortunate that
the orchestral introduction to
this lumbering Haydn choral
work is labelled “Representa-
tion of Chaos.” It’s just too
good to be true, and, while one
might indulge in a chuckle as
a top-grade orchestra starts
representing, the Royal Phil-
harmonic Society’s orchestra,
as heard in Sydney Con. last
Saturday night, was generally
chaotic in its representation.
This, of course, is a great
pity, because Gerald Williams,
the conductor, is one of those
active young men, lacking
nothing in drive and determina-
tion. And the choir, apart
from one or two hesitant
entries, was quite pleasant.
With a smaller, hand-picked
group of musicians, Mr.
Williams might get the results
he’s after.
There is a lot of nonsense in
the arrangement of the text;
phrases and even words are
repeated to the point of tedium.
One or two choruses — “The
Heavens are Telling” and
“Achieved is the Glorious
Work” — are exceptions ; the
latter is a bright little number,
but the orchestra seemed a bit
unhappy at the speed it was
taken at.
Of the soloists, William
Diamond (bass) was, nota-
tionally speaking, excellent,
but a sh’ght woolliness in tone
tended to mar his efforts.
Allan Ferris handled the tenor
leads with his usual efficiency,
and soprano Roslyn Dunbar,
after a brilliant start, set this
listener pondering the old ques-
tion : 4s it justifiable to use
coloratura in a choral work
such as this? v The question,
like the one about the validity
of ornamented Palestrina, may
never get a satisfactory
answer.
A. W.
Artbursts
From Razors to Paint
All styles and no styles at all
are represented in the third
anniversary exhibition of the
Australian Galleries, Colling-
wood (Melbourne).
Collingwood, incidentally,
used to be the suburb whose
chief exponents of culture were
Flying Angels, Battling BuSters
and crutchmen, whose fieriness
was expressed in razoh-slashing
and bottle-bashing. They wore
their hair in a long wave and
curl over their foreheads and
looked very fierce indeed.
There are other gangs in
Collingwood now. They wear
their hair long behind instead
of in front, wear velvet jackets,
flowing ties of many colors and
corduroy trousers. They sit
about in cafes looking like
tortured Van Goghs, and they
express their fierceness by fling-
ing pots of paint at canvas and
labelling the result “abstrac-
tion,” or by making master-
pieces of sculpture out of bits
of tin and old iron.
There is some doubt as to
whether they bring as much
skill to these forms of self-
expression as the razor-
slashers and bottle-bashers did
to theirs. It takes considerable
skill to break a bottle in half
and with this simple instru-
ment carve a similarly armed
opponent into an aesthetically-
pleasing shape, especially when
your statue is trying to do the
same thing to you.
The fashion having changed,
many exhibitors are trying
rather desperately to fit into it
—like Sylvaine Selig, whose
“Harlequin” and “Night in
Silence” are freakish rather
than artistic. Rich in color,
Tate Adams’s “Figure in a
Yellow Landscape” is more
considered. In Edwin Tanner’s
“Boy and Birds” it’s difficult
to know whether the boy is in
the cage with the birds or the
birds are outside with the boy,
and it’s equally difficult to
know why Robert Dickerson,
in “Girl,” combined an expres-
sion of infinite pathos with a
face that looks startlingly like
battered flat-iron. In “Green
Still Life” Phyl Waterhouse’s
familiar shorthand has de-
generated into something close
to a scrawl.
The most interesting collec-
tion is Ray Crooke’s panel of
seven pictures. He has been
knocking about in pearling-
luggers and doing odd jobs in
the islands and North Queens-
land and has tried to see the
exotic in landscape and human-
beings through the eyes of
Gauguin. There is some hint
of that master in “The Lines-
man” and “Island Wedding.”
In “The Dam” Arthur Boyd
has something of the
limpidity of the water, though
the softness of the reflections
contradicts the crudity of the
trees reflected.
M. G. S.
♦> +> ♦>
John D. Moore
It is always alarming for a
critic to find himself in accord
with popular taste. You never
know whether it proves your
judgment sound or hopeless.
But at any rate this com-
mentator did find himself in
agreement with the buyers at
the memorial show of John D.
Moore’s paintings at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries. Always,
of course, a well-known figure
in the Sydney art-world, Moore
seems to have reached his peak
in a set of strong and vivid
watercolors painted between
1934 and 1948—“ The Brook,”
green and intimate; “Stock-
holm,” a lovely piece of tone-
painting ; the dashing river of
“Lochinver” —and these with a
few small oils with something
of the same dramatic quality,
and a more delicate, earlier
watercolor from Tasmania,
are precisely the paintings that
have sold.
it might be worth mention-
ing that, on the day The
Bulletin went along, one of
the best-quality watercolors,
another “Lochinver, ’f had still
to collect its red spot.
❖ ❖ »>
Le Gay Brereton Prize
The Robert le Gay Brereton
Prize, held annually to en-
courage draughtsmanship
among art - students, was
awarded this year by Erik
Langker, Tom Tompson and
G. K. Townshend to Margaret
Woodward, a young artist
from the Sydney suburb of
Hornsby, who is a student at
the Tech.—an excellent de-
cision, for Miss Woodward’s
drawings (hands, feet, nude,
portrait-study, etc.), on display
at the National Gallery, are
remarkably sensitive and
assured.
Susan Wright, commended
by the judges, lively but
sketchier, also shows promise.
♦>
Under 45 Guineas
Bargains in art used to be
five-guineas apiece, and it is
a little startling to have the
latest show at the Clune
Galleries, King’s Cross, adver-
tised, presumably to attract
bargain-hunters, as “Oil Paint-
ings under 45gns.” Yet unless
a painter can sell one at that
price once a fortnight he is not


o
ON CALL
A full 6% per annum interest with security
makes this on-call cash deposit a wise
investment!
We certify that there was £l9B of consolidated tangible
assets to cover each £lOO of consolidated liabilities excluding
deposits, at 31st December, 1958. HENSON, GATES AND CO.,
PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS.
SECURED BY THE AUSTRALIA-WIDE ASSETS OF CARAPARK
For full particulars, sea your broker, ’phone LM 0391 or send
in this coupon to the Secretary.
CctfUl/tiaA6 & GENERAL FINANCE LTD.
681 Parramatta Road, Leichhardt, N.S.W.
Please send me a brochure and copies of balance !
sheet.
NAME J
ADDRESS |
- —— ——j
8.10/6
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — lx Divorce.
TO HERBERT BARNES late of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
GWENDOLINE ALICE MAY BARNES
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1555 of 1959 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at'the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 24th
day of August 1959 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
E. G. SAYKGH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt
Street, Sydney.— J. DOUG H A N,
Registrar.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription . 22/6
going to make even a barely
comfortable living; and how
many of them do?
The best bargain, for size
and a considerable degree of
merit, is a big bush landscape
by Reims Zusters ; and since
most of the paintings stay
modestly below the 45-guinea
mark, some as low as six-
guineas, some of the others
should find a market. They
are a patchy lot, though.
«j« +♦«■ ♦♦♦
Victorian Artists
The Victorian Artists’
Society’s showrooms are at
present equally divided be-
tween the works of a new-
comer, Jan Riske, and those
of that old campaigner and
prize-winner Charles Bush.
Riske’s immense abstrac-
tions, with their clashing colors,
make a great splash, but they
do not go deeper than fashion.
On the other hand, Bush,
in his show entitled “Dusk,
Night and the City,” isn’t try-
ing to fulfil the latest fashion:
he is obviously trying to fulfil
Nature. In “Exhibition Street
at Night,” “The Eastern
Market,” “Station, Cathedral
and Neons,” “Bourke Street,
Near Menzies” and “The
Yarra From Princes Bridge,”
all done at night, he tries to
show us what dusk and dark-
ness do to that insensate
muddle which is Melbourne.
They pull it all together—the
dignified old buildings and the
bumptious new ones, the
blatant shop-signs, power-lines,
tramlines, up-and-down lines
of the ICI building, the wink-
ing neon-lights, the spitting
electric tram-poles and the
menacing glare of the un-
dimmed motor - headlamps.
They pull them together as a
composer pulls together the
discordant noises in a moun-
tain gully and makes a sym-
phony or sonata out of them.
Dusk is not an artist —it is
just dusk—but it does its job
beautifully, and in doing it has
presented Bush with his
subject-matter. How does
Bush fulfil it? Well in places,
badly in others. The forms are
there, and ~ so are the colors,
but the kindly veil of dusk is
mostly absent.
Talkies
“Rockets Galore”
Those sturdily self-reliant
inhabitants of Todday in the
Outer Hebrides, who so cannily
outwitted the English excise-
men in “Whisky Galore,” here
rebel against attempts by the
Air Ministry to set-up a
rocket-base on the island fast-
ness, and, where all else fails,
they succeed by simply dyeing
their seagulls pink, thus estab-
lishing a sanctuary for a vara
avis.
If the fun isn’t quite so up-
roarious as in the whisky-
snatching opus, it still assays
high in chuckles, thanks to
smooth work by Duncan Mc-
Crae, as the hard-drinking
leader of the rebels, and
Roland Culver, as the sole
English resident swimming
strongly against a sea of Scots.
Donald Sinden, as the
squadron-leader sent to soften-
up the islanders, and Jeannie
Carson, as the island's school-
marm, supply the love-interest.
At Sydney Embassy.
* ❖ i
“The Angry Hills”
A reasonably taut and
exciting account of how an
American newspaperman in
Nazi - occupied Athens is
entrusted with a list of . Greek
collaborators for transmission
to British Intelligence in Lon-
don and keeps half a jump
ahead of the Gestapo as they
chase him all over Greece.
Robert Mitchum, as the
journalist, makes a firmer
approach to the job than
usual ; Marius Goring is suave
as the Nazi general with a
velvet glove over his iron fist;
and Stanley Baker is the local
Gestapo chief whose vaunted
imperviousness to anything but
the call of stern duty gets a
dent put in it.
At Sydney St. James.
♦l* ♦> »
“Up the Creek”
When the makers of British
comedies turn to one of the
services for material they
usually come-up with a winner,
and this piece of naval up-
roariousness is no exception.
David Tomlinson is a dither-
ing lieutenant whose experi-
ments with rockets get him
relegated to command of a
“mothball” destroyer tied-up
at a remote seaside village.
The shrewdhead Irish bosun
who has been temporarily in
command has turned H.M.S.
Berkely into Berkely Enter-
prises, with pig- and chicken-
raising, pastrycooking and
laundry raking-in a small for-
tune for the matelots, added
to what they’ve been getting
for the rum and smokes they’ve
been flogging to- the locals.
When an admiral lobs-in for
an inspection, the works, to say
nothing of the lieutenant’s pet
rocket, blow-up. The juicy
situations are backed with
dialogue of unusual wit.
At Sydney Esquire.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Compulsion”
The celebrated Loeb-Leopold
murder case —the two late-
teenage youths, sons of mil-
lionaires, who cold-bloodedly
murdered a schoolboy simply
for the intellectual experience
of it —is the basis of this well-
constructed and well-acted
screenplay. The viciousness of
the youths, the parental indul-
gence underlying it, the detec-
tive work, and especially the
trial—all these are projected
with clarity and logic.
Apart from Richard Fleis-
cher’s searching direction, the
film's strength is in the acting
of the four principals. Dean
Stockwell and Bradford Dill-
man make credible the
twisted Freudian thinking of
the murderers. E. G. Marshall
is the tight-lipped State
Attorney who cleverly splits the
two and extracts their confes-
sions ; and Orson Welles, as
the defence-counsel (Clarence
Darrow at the actual trial),
pulls out some of his most
spectacular emotional stops.
At Sydney Century.


Have
you made your WILL?
Fo.<?
Tiie Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victor** in 1171
TR5?.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES
DIRECTORS:
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited
Executor and Trustee under your Will, you safeguard your Estate and
secure continuity of service.
The Company, which was incorporated in Victoria in 1878, is empowered
by special Acts of Parliament to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve?, £976,220.
A. R. L. Wiltshire C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); J. Cuming Stewart;
Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., Y.D.; W. E. M. Campbell;
T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., <J).C. (Chairman); Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; Alan G. Potter; Rear Admiral H. J.
Buchanan, C.8.E., D.S.O.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Bums, Philp & Co., Ltd.
Tn common with many of the preceding
75 years, last term was a “fairly
prosperous one” for the Burns, Philp
family. Just how prosperous the board
prefers not to say in detail, the accounts
being restricted, as usual, to a rather
cautious assessment of the parent co.'s
position.
But, whether or not the parent co.’s
rediscovery of bonus-scrip and the chair-
man’s cheerful report are construed as
a warning to ambitious takeover-
operators, the board has shown itself to be
in a “giving” mood, and, with a co. well
able to support such an attitude, share-
holders may find grounds for optimism
in the confident tenor of both the pub-
lished accounts and the chairman’s
remarks.
The volume of wholesale and retail
sales increased over the year, shipping
returns were higher, outside investments
rose by nearly £860,000 (excluding re-
valuation), and, while the song of the
islands does touch on the dread possi-
bility of trading-stations disappearing in
clouds of volcanic dust, the dominant
theme still appears to be a variation on
“I’ve got a lovely bunch of coconuts.”
True, the record earnings credited to
the parent co. were written after a much
smaller provision for depreciation—equal
to 13.7 p.c. of fixed-assets book-values
at the beginning of the term and backed
by an unchanged £500,000 of replace-
ment-provisions—but, even if part of the
additional profit were for display-purposes
only last year, the move would still
help to emphasise the liberality of earlier
provisions.
There was, of course, no difficulty in
finding the extra £lOO,OOO sent out to
shareholders. And it seems that the div.-
cheque will soon rise by another £lOO,OOO,
for, after resisting an early addiction to
bonus-issues for almost 40 years, the co.
now proposes to follow : up last year’s
one-for-four gift with a one-for-five hand-
out and, presumably, to hold to the 10
p.c. div.-rate.
From an investment angle much
depends on the future board-room atti-
tude towards shareholders. However, the
sharemarket appears to have rubbed most
of the gilt off the short-term prospects
by pricing the £1 ords. at 835., to return
a mere £2 13s. p.c. after allowing for
the bonus-issue.
Like last year’s issue, the proposed
bonus will add £1,000,000 to B.P.’s aff-
ord. paid capital, raising the total figure
to £6,000,000, of which £2,000,000 came
from par offerings in 1951 and 1955.
Since the previous cash issue, in 1938,
the book-value of assets has grown by
well over £12,000,000, after excluding
known revaluations.
At £6,000,000 share-capital will be
£3,508,193 short of disclosed reserves and
£2,445,331 smaller than the present figure
set against outside shareholdings.
These modestly-valued holdings, which
will probably be the subject of a further
revaluation in preparation for the bonus-
issue, include substantial share-interests
in Queensland Insurance, Bankers and
Traders’ Insurance Co., lantzen (Aust.)
and G. J. Coles, along with scrip in a
wide spread of banks, manufacturers,
merchants and mining concerns.
Directly, or through its principal sub-
sidiaries, B.P. is well known as a ship-
owner, merchant, island - trader and
plantation-owner, a variety of occupa-
tions which by no means covers the
whole of the group’s extensive interests
in Australia, New Guinea, the South Sea
Islands and New Zealand.
Changes in trading and operating
conditions since the 1939-45 war have,
naturally enough, influenced the direc-
tion of recent developments. Island-
trading and the more-than-40 coconut
plantations have provided rich returns as
have some of the co.’s investments, but
the shipping-trade, an essential link in
island-connections, has proved a much
less profitable proposition than it was
in earlier years. At the same time import-
and exchange-restrictions have hindered
expansion of agency dealings, while direct
buying by large retailers, or groups of
retailers, has affected wholesale mer-
chandising and led to the introduction
of self-service warehouses.
As a result, trading expansion has been
more marked in the subsidiaries, with
the parent co. tending to develop more
as an investment- and holding-co. than
as a shipowner and merchant. The sale
to G. J. Coles, in 1956, of the subsidiary
chain-retailer, Pennys, Ltd (for 3,600,000
ss. ords. in Coles and £1,025,000 in
cash) conformed to this general pattern.
In these circumstances, the reluctance
to publish consolidated accounts or to
separate trading profits from investment
income, limits, severely, the value of the
annual financial statements. The failure
to reveal the tax-provision doesn't help
either.
Major subsidiaries are Burns, Philp
(South Sea) Co., Ltd., and its offshoot,
Burns, Philp (New Hebrides), Ltd., Burns,
Philp New Guinea), Ltd., and a U.S.
import-export subsidiary, Burns, Philp
Co. of San Francisco. No indication has
been given of the possible effect on
group-earnings of the co.-tax proposed
for New Guinea.
In addition to the improved results
obtained last term from the parent's
merchandising and shipping operations,
“the numerous other phases of the co.’s
activities” all yielded a “reasonable”
return. The South Sea and New Guinea
offshoots also did well, the S.S. co. lift-
ing net profit by £17,921 to £160,283
(Fijian).
The parent’s gross profit and “income
from all sources” rose by £186,708 to
£3,067,207, a higher tax-provision being
given as the main reason for a £125,071
increase in expenses (£1,405,408). Pro-
vision for depreciation was £194,507
lighter at an “adequate” £297,488, a
steady £500,000 going to tonnage- and


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownliills.”
Telephone: B\V 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1711—BW 8088
property - replacement reserves before
arriving at the £864,311 net profit:
To Its — He —
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Unexplained additions, £324,121 5,770,860
1955. . 477,116 10 p.c. = 300,000 ? 152> 276 5,923,142
To stall fund, £24,840.. )
To replacement res., £300,000.. 6,223,142
Net addition reserves, £518,761.. 6,741,903
1956.. 499,293 10 p.c. = 324,/98 I 14g 625 6,890,523
To stall fund, £20,8/0.. j ’
To replacement res., £300,000.. 7,190,523
Surplus, insurance prem’s, £4566 7,195,094
Less sundry adjustments, £1486.. 7,193,603
1957 . . 563,105 10 pc. = 375,000 1 i 6 i,0237,354,631
lo staft fund, £2/,082.. )
To replacement res., £500,000.. 7,854,631
Surplus insurance fund, £10,104 7,864,735
Profit sale assets, etc., £435,705 8,300,440
1958.. 608,167 10 p.c. =400,000 1 , fi9
To staff fund, £28,045 S iBU,l “' 2 s,4BU ’ ob ' J
Revaluat’n investments £1,212,979 9,693,541
Reserves capitalised (1 for 4),
£1,0000,000 8,693,541
Surplus, insurance fund, £23,886 8,717,427
Less disbursement of staff-fund,
and sundry adjustments, net,
£43,140 8,674,287
To replacement res., £500,000 ..9,174,287
1959. . 864,311 10 p.c. =500,000 )
To staff fund, £30,405 t 333,906 9,008,193
Fatter by £256,144 than the previous
term's showing, the earnings were equal
to 17.2 p.c. on share-capital as it now
stands, or 14.4 p.c. on a £6,000,000
capital, compared with 15.2, 15.1 and
15.4 p.c. back to 1956. The div.-rate
hasn’t dropped below 10 p.c. since 1919,
last term’s payout boing the seventh
successive distribution on this scale.
Replacement reserves now total
£2,100,000, but. as the co. expects to
build “one or two” vessels and renovate
or replace several large properties within
the next few years, the provision of large
sums for replacement seems likely to
remain a regular feature of the accounts
for some time yet.
Last term’s bonus-issue was financed
by a gentle write-up of shares in other
cos., the surplus so created accounting
for £1,212,979 of the £2,070,186 added
to outside investments, a further £121,533
of share-capital going into subsidiary cos.
On its own, income from both classes of
investments should cover the £600,000
required to pay a 10 p.c. div. on the
bonus-enlarged capital.
An inadequate reflection, by all
indications, of the parent co.’s strength,
the balance-sheet, nevertheless, presents
an extremely solid picture:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Capital .. £4,000,000 £4,000,000 £5,000,000
Reserves . . 7,354/631 8,480,562 9,508,193
Creditors, etc. 3,170,653 3,289,646 3,657,207
Final Dividends 200,000 200,000 250,000
• £14,725,284 £15,970,208 £18,415,400
Properties and
shipping- .. 2,352,85 5 2,166,742 2,110,213
Shares’other cos.* 5,640,706 6,375,145 8,445,331
Shares subsids. 2,966,360 3,251,088 3,372,621
Stocks, etc. .. 1,613,782 1,891,096 2,095,324
Debtors . . 1,806,027 1,999,336 2,016,939
Cash . . . . 345,554 286,801 374,972
£14,725,284 £15,970,208 £18,415,400
* Includes an unstated amount of Govt, bonds.
Since 1951 over £3} million has been
provided for depreciation of fixed assets,
shown in the accounts at cost, or cost,
less depreciation.
Book - values, parent’s accounts only,
showed 51s. Bd. in net tangibles at March
31 last, for each £1 ord., including the
bonus-scrip to be issued at an unspecified
date later in the year.
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd.
HPaken all round, Anthony Hordern and
Sons appears to have made more
headway last term than that suggested
by the small slip in pre-tax earnings and
a slightly larger gain in the net showing.
With “dead” or slow-moving stocks
further whittled-down and written-down
over the term, inventories are now in
much better shape than they have been
for several years, the co. aiming to keep
up the pressure in this direction through
newly-introduced stock-control methods.
On the sales side, too, there was con-
tinued improvement last term, although
the “notable increase in sales” isn’t,
unfortunately, translated into actual turn-
over figures.
Encouraged by the support accorded
the Canberra branch (opened in 1956)
and the outstanding success of the larger
West Ryde store in the few weeks since
this, the first Sydney-suburban venture,
began trading, Anthony Hordern’s is
proceeding with plans for the develop-
ment of a freehold property at Wollon-
gong (N.S.W.) and is also investigating a
site in an unnamed Sydney suburb. The
rate at which these projects can be
developed will be dictated, largely, by
the state of the co.’s own financial
resources.
But the heart of Anthony Hordern’s
old-established business is its massive
department-store on Sydney’s Brickfield
Hill, and trading results from that quarter
remain the major factor in determining
overall profits. The board doesn’t
envisage any great change in this situa-
tion, in the fdrseaable future, at least,
and in 1957 set-out to regain the ground
so suddenly lost in the previous year
with a vigorous and imaginative reorgan-
isation of activities at the big store. The
branches, it is hoped, will provide an
additional source of profit, rather than
act merely as a counter to the effects on
city retailing of transport problems and
competition for suburban shopping-
centres. '
The bid to attract greater customer-
support was accompanied by an energetic
assault on/ costs and a reappraisal of
stock-values, reserves being tapped in
1957-58 for a £50,000 provision against
probable stock-losses.
The whole of this provision was used
last term, a further £24,000 of stock-
losses, written-off against revenue, con-
tributing to a £6479 fall in pre-tax earn-
ings (£286,053). However, when allowance
is made for the direct stock-charge, pre-
tax trading profit was around £17,500
stronger than that of the previous year,
after providing an extra £4096 (£53,000)
for depreciation ; the stock write-off and
a lighter provision for tax (down £15,000,
at an appropriate £92,000) leaving net
earnings at £194,053, or £8521 above the
figure claimed in 1958:
( Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
To alterations reserve, £50,000 . . 301,434
Asset-revaluation reserve, £2,675,519.. 2,976,953
From depreciation ( £500,000) and
alteration ( £100,000) reserves, and
sundry provisions ( £375,000) . . 3,951,953
'55..300,570 56,250 10 = 125,000 119,320 4,071,273
’56..233,680 56,250 10 = 125,000 52,430 4,123,703
’57..102,686 56,250 10 = 125,000 4,045,141
Provn. long-service leave, £131,000 .. 3,914,141
Provri. retirement benefits, £73,000 .. 3,841,141
Provn. stock fluctuation, £50,000 . . 3,791,141
Provn. unearned interest under h.-p.
agreements, £46,000 .. .. 3,745,141
Less depree. on w/up value of plant
traas. from reval. res.. £282,447.. 3,462,694
’58..185,532 56,250 8 = 100,000 29,282 3,491,976
Profit sale assets, £19,824 .. ..3,511,800
’59..194,053 56,250 8 = 100,000 37,803 3,549,603
Dropped from f 0 p.c. to 8 p.c. in the
previous year, the ord. div.-rate was kept
at the lower level, earnings covering the
usual 74 p.c. on the £750,000 pref. capital
and 11 p.c. on the £1,250,000 equity
stake, compared with 10.3 p.c. in 1958
and 3.7, 14.2 and 19.5 p.c. back to 1955.
Although the 136-year-old business
proved an excellent money-spinner under
private ownership, nothing really exciting
has come shareholders’ way since the
share-register was opened to the public
in 1926. Paid capital is still as it was
then, while the ord. div.-rate, which has
yet to exceed 10 p.c., has averaged a
shade less than 6 p.c. p.a. over the last
33 years.
To a large extent, this unimpressive
investment-record springs from the
decline of “central” Sydney as a focal-
point in city retailing, a decline cushioned
in A. H.'s case by a now-waning mail-
order business. Sydney’s public-transport
system does little to help retailers in
their attempts to entice trade back into
the area.
At February 28 last, the balance-sheet
showed a substantial current-asset
surplus (£2,639,253), but with the com-
paratively low earning-power of share-
capital, the co. doesn’t seem to be in a
position to tie-up big sums in lengthy
and unproductive development-pro-
jects:—
Paid capital—- 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Ord. ■ .. 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000
Reserves .. .. 4,045,141 3,491,976 3,549,603
Mortgages .. 2,102,637 2,003,459 2,101,501
Overdraft .. .. 566,585 946,834 853,642
Creditors .. .. 428,632 679,573 814,217
Tax provision .. 165,988 149,096 162,137
Final divs. .. 90,625 128,125 78,125
£9,399,608 £9,399,063 £9,559,225
Freeholds, leaseholds,
plant .. . . 4,846,350 4,807,744 4,844,299
Stocks .. .. 2,364,037 2,105,186 1,991,203
Debtors .. . . 2,094,334 2,355,118 2,654,762
Cash, investments,
etc. .. .. 94,887 131,015 68,961
£9,399,608 £9,399,063 £9,559,225
At £1,991,203, stocks were in the


(COMPANY REPORT)
THE CONSOLIDATED ZINC CORPORATION LIMITED
Mr. L. B. ROBINSON’S REVIEW OF THE YEAR’S
RESULTS: ENCOURAGING, IN VIEW OF LOW LEAD
AND ZINC PRICES.
The Tenth Annual Meeting of the Company will be held at
37 Dover Street, London, W.l, on the 23rd June, 1959. The
Following extracts are from the Statement of the Chairman
(Mr. L. B. Robinson) which has been circulated in advance.
These extracts mainly concern Australian activities of the
C.Z.C. group of companies.
The low lead and zinc prices
prevailing at the end of 1957
continued during the first three-
quarters of 1958v and showed only
a slight improvement in the last
quarter. The average London
Metal Exchange prices for prompt
delivery of these metals during 1958
were £72 16/- for lead and £65 18/1
for zinc, compared with £96 13 /4
and £81 12/4 respectively during
1957, and at the 1958 price levels
there can be little profit from mining
these metals. In the circumstances
1 feel we are entitled to regard the
results for 1958 as being satisfactory
and reasonably encouraging.
The Group profit, before mining
royalty and taxation, amounted
to £2,728,.191, compared with
£4,322,442 for 1957, a reduction of
£1,594,251 which was fully accounted
for by the fall in the profit of the
Zinc Corporation's mine at Broken
Hill, New South Wales.
Consolidated Zinc Proprietary
Limited again had a satisfactory
year and showed an increase in
profit which was largely brought
about by the sale of i utile and
zircon by Titanium and Zirconium
Industries Pty. Ltd. at prices
arranged under contracts entered
into during previous years.
In the United Kingdom, although
the profits from zinc smelting and
sulphuric acid production by
Imperial Smelting Corporation
Limited were lower, the profits from
the other products, in particular
zinc oxide and other pigments and
zinc alloys, were reasonably well
maintained.
The consolidated net profit for
the year at £1,617,876, was, as a
result of the considerably reduced
charge for mining royalty and taxa-
tion, only £152,110 lower than the
net profit for 1957. This profit is
approximately £57,000 greater than
the provisional figure advised on
March 9, 1959, in the offer of
ordinary shares to shareholders.
Transfers of £900,000 have been
made to general reserves, compared
with £750,000 for 1957 and an
interim dividend of 1/- per share
has been paid on the ordinary
shares, compared with 1/3 per share
for 1957.
The directors recommend that a
final dividend should be paid at
the rate Of 2/- per share, compared
with 2/6 per share last year, giving
a total distribution for the year
of 3/- per share, compared with
3/9 per share for 1957.
Capital expenditure by the Group
on buildings, plant and equipment
during 1958 amounted to £997,932,
while capital expenditure commit-
ments at the end of the year
amounted to £4,434,000. These
include the erection of a zinc smelt-
ing plant using the Imperial Smelt-
ing process at Swansea, a ferrous
sulphate treatment plant, also at
Swansea, and an extension of the
acid producing capacity at Cockle
Creek, New South Wales.
Since the end of 1958 the Group's
resources have been augmented by
the “rights" issue of 1,455,100 ordi-
nary shares at 48/- per share. The
proceeds of this issue will be used
with the existing funds to meet the
cost of the major developments
mentioned above at Swansea and
also the erection of a similar Im-
perial Smelting process plant at
Cockle Creek, together with a sin-
tering plant, to treat part of the
zinc and lead concentrates pro-
duced at Broken Hill which are at
present sold to smelters outside
Australia. It is expected that part of
the funds required for the full de-
velopment of Cockle Creek will be
provided by loans in Australia.
The plans for the reconstruction
of the Australian Head Office of
the Group in Melbourne, to which
1 referred in my statement last year,
are well advanced. The old
building has been demolished, and
the site has been prepared for the
new building, the erection of which
will commence shortly. The greater
part of the cost will be met by
a long-term loan.
LEAD AND ZINC
MINING
In view of the prevailing con-
ditions in the metal markets, both
the Zjnc Corporation and its associ-
ated company, New Broken Hill
Consolidated, budgeted for a re-
duced production of ore and re-
coverable metal in 1958 and in Feb-
ruary, 1958, working time was re-
duced by 10 per cent, throughout
the Broken Hill field as a positive
contribution towards the solution
of the world problem arising from
the fact that the output of lead
and zinc is running in excess of
demand.
Accordingly, in 1958, the Zinc
Corporation treated a total of
659,268 tons of ore for a production
of 79,098 tons of lead, 2,033,955
ounces of silver and 115,348 tons
of zinc concentrate, compared with
767,069 tons of ore for a produc-
tion of 90,820 tons of lead, 2,198,457
ounces of silver and 139,684 tons
of zinc concentrate in 1957. The
1958 outputs therefore represent
reductions of approximately 13
per cent, of recoverable lead and
174 per cent, of zinc concentrate.
The policy of reduced production
will be continued in 1959 until such
time as a more favorable outlook
for metals justifies the return to
full and normal operating con-
ditions.
ZINC SMELTING
The output of zinc from the
United Kingdom plants of Imperial
Smelting Corporation was slightly
lower than in 1957.
In Australia, further progress was
made during the year with the
design of the new smelter to be
built at the works of Sulphide Cor-
poration Pty. Limited at Cockle
Creek, near Newcastle, New South
Wales. The original plans have been
revised in the light of improved
results obtained by the Imperial
Smelting process plant at Avon-
mouth. As now planned the smelter -
will have an annual capacity of
38,000 tons of zinc from a single blast
furnace, which will also be capable
at the same time of treating lead-
bearing materials for a correspond-
ing production of lead bullion. The
smelter is now scheduled to .com-
mence operation in 1961. An order
has been placed for the 250-ton-per-
day contact sulphuric acid plant,
which will produce acid from
sulphur gases derived from sinter-
ing operations at the new smelter.
A satisfactory long-term contract
has been entered into with the
Department of Railways, New South
Wales, for the haulage of concen-
trates from Broken Hill to Cockle
Creek.
LEAD SMELTING
Lead smelting operations by the
Broken Hill Associated Smelters
Proprietary at Port Pirie continued
satisfactorily throughout the year.
This smelter is jointly owned with
North Broken Hill Limited and
Broken Hill South Limited. The
Company’s results reflect the effects
of the lower metal prices but these
have been offset to a marked extent
by further gratifying increases in
operating efficiency. Since July,
1958, some reduction in lead pro-
duction has been necessary to con-
form with the reduced mine pro-
duction at Broken Hill. The new
lead refinery is approaching com-
pletion and is scheduled to com-
mence operations later this year.
The production of sulphuric acid at
Port Pirie increased from 56,000
tons in 1957 to more than 65,000
tons in the year under review.
SULPHURIC ACID
Sulphuric acid production and
sales by Sulphide Corporation were
the highest on record, v with de-
liveries to industrial consumers in
the Newcastle area being 14 per
cent, higher than in 1957, the
previous record year. On the other
hand, superphosphate sales fell by
over 4 per cent., due mainly to the
recession in the fortunes of the
pastoral industry resulting from the
effects of the dry season in 1957 and
from the marked decline in wool
prices. Such temporary factors do
not alter the long-term view that
the future demand for superphos-
phate is likely to show a marked
upward trend; additions have been
made to the storage capacity for
raw material and finished product
in anticipation of this.
RUTILE AND ZIRCON
Production of rutile and zircon
by Titanium and Zirconium indus-
tries from beach sands at Strad-
broke Island, Queensland, reached
record levels, although production
was slightly curtailed in the year.
Satisfactory results are again ex-
pected for the current year in spite
of the present weakness of the
rutile market. Although, as a result
of a reviving interest in titanium
metal there appear tq be better
long-term prospects for rutile than
there were a year ago, the outlook
is still far from clear.
The Group has acquired the 49
per cent, interest previously held
by British Titan Products in a sub-
stantial rutile property in Sierra
Leone and has taken over the man-
agement of the prospecting cam-
paign from Columbia - Southern
Chemical Corporation fa wholly
owned subsidiary of Pittsburgh
Plate Glass Company) which owns
the remaining 51 per cent, interest
in this venture. A large deposit had
previously been defined and the
current prospecting campaign aims
at proving the existence or other-
wise of additional deposits.
COMALCO—BAUXITE
Commonwealth Aluminium Cor-
poration (Comalco) during the year
continued investigation of the many
factors involved in the economic
assessment of alumina and alumi-
nium production based upon the
bauxite deposits at Weipa on the
west coast of Cape York Peninsula.
Since January, 1957, the British
Aluminium Company has been
associated with us in this Company’s
activities. This association was
initially constituted by a Memoran-
dum of Intentions and during the
past year a provision of the Memo-
randum was implemented by the
transfer to British Aluminium of
half the share capital of Comalco.
Recently Tube Investments
Limited and Reynolds Metals Com-
, pany acquired more than 90 per
cent, of the issued ordinary shares
in British Aluminium and an-
nounced their intention to vest these
shares in a holding company in
which Tube Investments would
have a controlling interest. In
March this year representatives of
Tube Investments and Reynolds
Metals Company visited Australia
to acquaint themselves with the pro-
gress of Comalco's work.
(Continued on page JO)


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JUNE MARY DALY late of Riley
Street Surry Hills—TAKE NOTICE
that EDWARD JOHN DALY has filed, a
Petition for Divorce No. 954 of 1959 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance ..in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 17th August
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
Without charge from PIGOTT, STINSON
& CO.-, of 2b Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN M. R. L. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney. Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. BL 5911. Tel. B 5900.
accounts at the lowest figure
for four years, £24,000 of
term’s £113,983 reduction
coming from the stock write-
down. Book - debts (up
£299,644) rose with the higher
turnover, and, possibly, with
the expansion of credit sales,
mortgage-loans (up £98,042 at
a sizeable £2,101,501) and
creditors, etc. (up £134,644),
providing portion of the funds
absorbed by this increase and
a £93,192 cut in the overdraft.
Net tangible cover for the
ords. was a whopping 765. lOd.
at balance-date (alter deduct-
ing a “special” depreciation pro-
vision), the revaluation of fixed
assets in 1957 adding £2,675,519
to their book-value and
accounting for a major part
of the asset backing.
A “substantial” improve-
ment in sales is claimed for the
first quarter of the current
term —a noteworthy achieve-
ment, in view of the tighter
conditions reported by many
Sydney retailers —and, despite
increases in female wage-rates
and the extension of annual-
leave to three weeks, the year
could well see a further gain
in earnings. At the same time,
the chances of a bigger div.
don’t look too bright; the £1
ords. being priced to return
£6 3s. Id. p.c. from an 8 p.c.
div. at 265.
The abolition of Saturday
trading in N.S.W. would alter
the picture, of course, but at
present the more-or-less peren-
nial revival of this topic hasn’t
got past the agitation stage.
The Gold Subsidy
HThere is an awareness these
A days of the value of gold.
This is, in part, due to a
belief that Russia intends to
give roubles a gold backing.
It is not generally known that
Russia is the largest producer
of gold in the world, even sur-
passing South Africa.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has assisted the gold-
miniiTg industry by means of
a subsidy. In 1957-58 a total
of £659,714 was paid out. In
many cases, the subsidy en-
abled companies operating on
low grade ore to carry on at
a profit. Subsidy payments to
Great Western Consolidated
for the period abovementioned
were £195,529, and payments
to Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
were £235,374.
The object of the subsidy is
to enable companies to make
a net profit of 10 p.c on paid
capital. No subsidy is payable
to richer mines which make
profits exceeding that amount
— e.g., no subsidy would be
payable to Hill 50, Australian
Developments or Eclipse under
present conditions.
The subsidy, fixed originally
at £2 15s. per oz., is shortly to
be increased to £3 ss. per oz.
in the case of major producers,
and from £2 to £2 Bs. per oz.
for small producers.
The term “fine oz.” means
ounces of pure gold. Every
goldmine produces gold
bullion, which is gold alloyed
with some silver and often a
little copper. This bullion is
carefully assayed to determine
the exact percentage of pure
gold, namely, the fineness of
the metal, and the amounts of
gold and silver are paid for
separately.
The incidence of the subsidy
is not well understood by the
layman. It is a scale of pay-
ment based on the cost per
ounce of producing the gold,
allowing for working costs, de-
preciation and development.
The subsidy is three-quarters
of the amount that the cost of
producing each fine ounce ex-
ceeds £l3 10s., with the maxi-
mum subsidy under the old
scale limited to £2 15s.
In the case of a mine produc-
ing gold at a cost of £l6 per
fine oz., which would involve
a loss, the subsidy at the above-
mentioned rate, would be:
1 of (£l6—£l3 10s.) = £1 17s.
6d. per' fine oz.
Thus, the mine producing,
say, IOOOoz. gold per month
would convert a loss into the
substantial net profit of £l5OO
per month.
At Government level in Australia,
negotiations have during the past
year proceeded satisfactorily in con-
nection with further major aspects
of the Weipa project.
As the result of the arrange-
ments made with the Commonwealth
Government in 1957 to consolidate
the Gove bauxite deposit with the
bauxite resources available to Co-
malco at Weipa, a special mineral
lease with an initial term of 42
years has been granted over an
area of 13,496 acres. This deposit
in the Northern Territory lies about
360 miles almost due west of Weipa
across the Gulf of Carpentaria, and
is known to contain a considerable
tonnage of bauxite of economic
grade.
I mentioned last year that an
offer, made by us on behalf of
Comalco for the purchase of the
Commonwealth Government's in-
terest in New Guinea Resources
Prospecting Company, had been
accepted in principle. A condition
of the offer is the grant of rights
over the very substantial hydro-
electric potential of the Purari
River. The main provisions of qn
agreement have now been for-
mulated, and in the meantime, in-
terim arrangements made with the
Government have enabled Comalco
to proceed further with the investi-
gation of these resources.
The discovery of a promising new
dam site at Wabo, only seven miles
above the navigable limits of the
Purari River, led to a decision
to commence test drilling there in"
preference to two other sites sur-
veyed earlier by the New Guinea
Company. Initial investigations in-
dicate a potential output from this
site of approximately 700,U0U kilo-
watts of firm power at a cost which
fully justifies the work necessary tor
a complete appraisal.
In addition, drilling was com-
menced on the Blair Athol coalfield
in the central coastal region of
Queensland over which a five-year
option is held.
Drilling and other investigational
work within the Weipa lease con-
tinue to confirm expectations as to
reserves of economic grade bauxite.
Special studies were commenced
for proving the most satisfactory
harbor development at Weipa, and
include the construction of a test
model at hydraulic laboratories in
Holland.
I must again emphasise, as I did
in my statement last year, that we
do not underestimate either the
magnitude of the task or the time
that may be required to bring our
plans to fruition. Nevertheless we
remain convinced that these mineral
resources will in due time be an
important factor in the Australian
economy as well as in the world’s
aluminium industry.
RUM JUNGLE URANIUM
PROJECT
Territory Enterprises Pty.
Limited, our subsidiary company
formed for the purpose of conduct-
ing on behalf of the Commonwealth
Government the management and
operation of this Northern Territory
project, has now completed its
sixth year. While the amount of
uranium oxide contained in the
concentrate produced fell, by 31
per cent, to 359,5641b. by reason
of the treatment of lower grade
ore, the project continued its record
of successful operation. Mining of
all known orebodies was completed
but exploration was actively con-
tinued and stockpiled ore is ade-
quate to keep the treatment plant
operating lor some years.
OIL EXPLORATION
Frome-Broken Hill Company Pty.
Limited, in which the Group's sub-
sidiary, Interstate Oil Limited, has
approximately a one-third share-
holding, continues to be the princi-
pal avenue through which our
interest in oil is maintained in
operations carried out on oil ex-
ploration permit areas in Victoria
and other areas of Australia con-
sidered to be potential oilrields.
Since the close of the year,
Frome-Broken Hill has concluded
an agreement with Santos Limited,
an Australian oil company, and
Delhi Australian Petroleum Limited,
a subsidiary of Delhi-Taylor Oil
Corporation of Dallas, Texas, for
the exploration on joint account ol
an area of approximately 110.000
square miles in north-eastern South
Australia and south-western Queens-
land, over which those two com-
panies have held prospecting rights
lor oil and gas.
During 1958 Interstate Oil Ltd.
purchased a live per cent, interest in
Humber Barrier Reef Oils Pty. Ltd.,
a company formed by Canadian in-
terests to drill on one of the south-
ern islands off the Great Barrier
Reef, Queensland.
CONCLUSION
The world prices for lead and
zinc continue to be the major factor
in determining our fortunes. At
the time of writing this statement
a United Nations Conference on
these metals in New York is about
to terminate and, until the result of
this Conference is known, it is
difficult for me to make any useful
observations on the future outlook.
I hope the picture will be clearer
by the date of our Annual General
Meeting, when 1 propose to review
the position in the light of our
knowledge at that date.
NOTE: Anyone wishing to re-
ceive copies of the complete State-
ment, together with the Directors’
Report and Accounts from which
the above extracts are taken, is
invited to write to G.P.O. Box
384D, Melbourne.


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-2-3
l«(i COELINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
INVESTMENT
■ W/O
FOR 3 YEARS AND OVER
9% for 2 years 8% for 1 year
Guaranteed by
an Independent
Insurance Company
who issue a separate indemnity policy direct to the
depositor, covering principal and interest.
® Your money is guaranteed by an independent
Insurance Company who, if necessary, are liable to
repay your principal and interest.
Q Interest is paid quarterly.
£' £5OO accrues to £1,023 in 7\ years.
This outstanding investment is again available with
Manufacturers'
(N.S.W.) FINANCE COMPANY
2nd Floor, Northern House, 13/15 O'Connell St., Sydney.
Telephone BW 2661 (10 lines). M|9
POST THIS COUPON
Manufacturers' (N.S.W.) Finance Company,
i Box 4790, G.P.0., Sydney, for detailed brochure. ■
1 i
» YOUR NAME I
•
YOUR ADDRESS »
B. 10/6/’59
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
A survey into the travelling
habits of Australians con-
ducted by the British Travel
and Holidays Association
shows that Australia sends to
Britain more tourists per head
of the population than almost
any other country. On
average, Australians stayed for
150 days and spent £460 a
head.
Most (41 per cent.) earned
between £lOOO and £3OOO a
year ; about a quarter earned
less than £lOOO, and a seventh
over £3OOO. More than half
were over 45, and almost half
were directors or executives.
The inquiry, which was car-
ried out at focal-points such
as ports, airports and Australia
House, proves that a high pro-
portion had family or senti-
mental links. One in four had
finished their full-time educa-
tion in Britain, and one in
three had friends or relations.
The distribution according
to residence (45 per cent, from
N.S.W., 28 per cent, from Vic-
toria, 9 per cent, from S. Aus-
tralia, and so on) was roughly
in accordance with the spread
of population in Australia.
Almost all of the tourists
spent some time in London
and visited, in this order of
importance, Windsor, Oxford,
Stratford-upon-Avon, Devon,
the Lake District, Cornwall,
Wales and Cambridge. Most
used “package” tours for
travel round Britain and went
to five major tourist centres.
They sought-out and enjoyed
scenery, historic buildings,
tradition and pageantry, castles
and churches. Only two out
of five mentioned sport.
New Zealanders’ tastes and
habits were broadly similar.
They stayed longer and —a
further indication of ancestral
links —more visited Scotland
(71 per cent., against the Aus-
tralians’ 54 per cent.).
Last year, about 20,000 Aus-
tralians and New Zealanders
came by sea and 12,000 by air.
The high proportion (69 per
cent.) of air-passengers travel-
ling alone is understandable,
since many were businessmen.
But does the equivalent figure
(52 per cent.) for sea-passengers
indicate that the long trip is
something of a consolation for
the widow or the widower?
Two out of three visited
Europe ; but, as only one in
seven broke the journey there,
it is clear that the general
intention was to see Britain
first.
State-aided Capitalism?
“Everyman a Capitalist,”
the pamphlet recently put out
by the Conservative Political
Centre, is yet another feeler
towards special legislation for
the benefit of the small saver.
The study-group responsible,
no doubt bearing in mind the
appeal of football-pools to the
wage-earner, has even tailored
its project to attract the man
who is disposed to set aside
ss. to 10s. a week out of
his £l3.
A more ingenious plan has
never been devised. It
shrewdly rejects, because of
possible vulnerability to State
interference, the idea of a
National Unit Trust, swinging
the administration to private
enterprise in institutional form
(financial trusts, banks, insur-
ance companies, etc.) willing
and able to prove a rigorous
statutory fitness.
Broadly, the group proposes
to marry the national savings-
certificate to the unit-trust and
to bless the union with conces-
sions. The “industrial-invest-
ment certificates” will represent
a stake in industry and income
will be tax-free; not more
than 60 per cent, will be dis-
tributed —the remaining 40 per
cent, will be put to reserve to
provide a premium at the end
of the seven years and to act
as a cushion against deprecia-
tion. The managers of the
fund will enjoy a number of
concessions, including exemp-
tion from transfer stamp-duty,
tax-free interest and dividends
on the fund and adminstration
costs set against income before
tax is payable.
Reception in the city is
mixed. The objective is
applauded, but little else. Not
only is the plan extremely com-
plicated, but there are also
difficulties in putting it into
practice. The administrative
staffing and advertising costs
in running the scheme are
sufficient to deter the institu-
tions, however highminded
they may be (the group
envisages them as “viewing the
new project as a public ser-
vice”). A person who with-
draws prematurely is excep-
tionally heavily penalised, and
the adjustments in income-tax
which would have to be made
are impractical. The unit-
trusts, after a strenuous cam-
paign for comparatively modest
concessions, could justly make
out a case of discrimination
against them.
All in all, the solution pro-
posed by this distinguished and
well - informed study - group
seems to be as naive as it is
elaborate. But as the pamph-
let is not official and is only
intended as a basis for dis-
cussion, it may well be that
the unrealistic measures are
deliberately overstated. They
can be, scaled-down and point
towards future legislation of
a more general nature than
that suggested.
Bouquet and Froth
Preoccupation with the
gutter has caused the theatre
to reel headily from a contact
with low-life which sometimes
is too searching and too inti-
mate. Human error - even
human degration are, it is
true, fit subjects for a drama-
tist, but there is a tendency
among our younger writers and
our avant-garde producers to
go to extremes in muckraking.
Shock, like scandal, is an
effective means of attracting
attention, but, used to excess,
it soon becomes repeilant.
Is the pendulum swinging
away from angry young
egotists, from sex and sin, from
foul-mouthed rebellion against
the conventions? ( Perhaps it
is too early yet for any marked
reaction (we shall soon know,
by the public’s reception of
John Osborne’s musical play),
but the demand for light
comedies is certainly high.


Betcherri-Gur —Meaning "Plurry Good Tucker"
Big Biz in Budgies
By PETER MANN
SirriNG in front of me as
I write this, and doing
his darnedest to distract
nne from earning his
crust by babbling incessantly
and nibbling the corner of the
copypaper whenever th e
carriage of the typewriter gets
within beak-shot of his cage, is
a cobalt - blue budgerigar
named. Joe.
More correctly, as he will tell
you himself in his soft but in-
credibly clear and precise little
voice, “Joseph Sputnik.” More-
over, he's “Mummy’s dear little
boy” ; he doesn't know where
pussy is ; and, for that matter,
“It's time to go to bed.”
Description of Joseph's
antics and vocabulary could
be continued for another
column or two, and qualify me
properly as a “budgie-bore”—
which is a phrase employed by
other budgie-owners who can t
get in a word about their bird.
But let it suffice that 1 am a
budgie-owner and can become
a budgie-bore at the drop of
a feather—and as such I'm one
of what has become a mighty
numerous tribe these days.
Just how many the tribe runs
to is. of course, anybody's
guess. It is not the sort of thing
that can be reliably checked.
But if you find yourself in any
group of two or more people
these days it will be surprising
if at least one of them doesn't
have a pet budgie.
HptE Budgerigar Society of
Australia has at least a
thousand members and has
affiliated branches all over
Australia. Yet for every
member of such societies there
are probably a hundred budgie-
owners who do not belong
to any organisation.
At the last annual Budgie
Showy held in Sydney Town
Hall-—the largest cage-bird
show of the year—there were
over 1000 entries, valued at
somewhere round £30,000.
And those numbers represent
only prize exhibit-birds—and
ow'ners who go in for showing
their birds.
Budgies are sold in tens of
thousands every year, at prices
—well, to fit every pocket.
You can buy a budgie for a
few shillings. He might be
what higher-toned breeders
W'ould dismiss as a “cull,” but
he’ll still make a lovable little
pet. At the other end of the
scale there's simply no limit.
When it comes to the really
outstanding bird, there’s no
fixed price. It becomes like
buying and selling a horse in,
say, the Tulloch class —a matter
of what the buyer is prepared
to pay and what, if anything,
the owner is prepared to accept.
One firm of budgie-breeders
alone in Sydney last year sold
7000 birds. This particular
firm’s rock-bottom price is a
quid and ranging up —well up!
They sell scores at a tenner a
head and more.
Price depends, as well as on
the class of the bird, on the
rarity of his color. These days
there are hundreds of different
colors and color-combinations
available. One. of the rarest,
JOSEPH
and most highly prized at
present, for instance, is a
“clear-winged violet”—a vioiet
bird with white wings, clear
of any black markings.
A side from the birds them-
selves, there's a hefty sort
of industry built up around
supplying budgie requirements.
One firm, which is in the
speciality class as manufac-
turers of budgie-cages, supplied
some figures which give an idea
of the scale of the business.
Last year they put 13,000,000 ft.
of wire, 58,372 square-feet of
galvanised-iron, aqd 79,248
square-feet of sheet-aluminium
into the making of 64,500
budgie-cages.
They furnished these cages
with 103.680 plastic feeding-
bowls, the same number of
glass drinking-bowls, and
perches representing 272,262
running-feet of timber, while
painting the cages took 1773
gallons of certified lead-free
paint!
The man-on-the-land, too,
has a commercial finger in the
budgie-pie. Growing birdseed
for home-consumption and
export is a small primary-
industry in itself. The budgie’s
favorite seed is Hungarian-
millet, and most of it is grown
in Queensland. Growers reap
three crops a year, and the
price fluctuates a lot, depend-
ing on the season ; but it
seldom falls below £4O a ton,
and hits as high as £lOO a ton
in a poor season.
One Sydney firm of produce-
merchants sells about 600 tons
of seed a year. This firm men-
tions, incidentally—reflecting
the scale of the budgie boom
—that where a few years ago
they sold equal quantities of
budgie-seed and canary-seed,
these days they sell 20 to 30
tons of Hungarian-millet for
every ton of canary-seed.
T>udgies are great “players,”
and love toys. Anything
in the way of a fountain-pen,
wrist-watch or pair of bifocals,
for instance, that they can lug
to the edge of a table, and
chuck overboard v/hile they
listen for the crash, will do
them quite nicely.
On the whole it’s cheaper to
spend a few bob on something
from the available range of
specially budgie-toys.
These, again, are a business- in
themselves. One firm that has
cashed-in on the budgie-toy
business kicked-off with a
range of 10 toys and a monthly
turnover of £6OO. A year later
they were turning out 40
different lines and turnover
had risen to £3500 a month!
The surprising thing about
all this is that the budgie, as a
native Australian, should only
now be coming into its own
as a popular pet on its home
ground, while he has been
cultivated overseas for more
than a century past.
The first New Australians —
Captain Phillip’s lot —saw their
first budgerigars when a stiff
drought in the early days of
the then colony drove vast
flocks of the little green-and-
yellow parrots down into the
coastal areas ; normally, of
course, they are inland dwellers.
John Gould, the great bird-
lover, fell for budgies immedi-
ately. He described them as
lovely little birds —‘especially
half-a-dozen or so grilled on
toast.”
The abos. had the same idea
about the budgie. The name
budgerigar is taken from their


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. - Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED
NOTES
With principal and interest
UNCONDITIONALLY GUARANTEED
by General Motors acceptance Corporation, New York
2 YEARS
I YEAR
9 MONTHS
6 MONTHS
3 MONTHS
I MONTH
OR 270 to
OR 180 to
OR 90 to
OR 30 to
360 days
269 days
179 days
89 days
... 6%
- 5±%
4i°/
~4 JO
4Lo/
•** n 4 /O
310/
••• J 4 /o
31°/
••• J 4 /O
per annum
per annum
per annum
per annum
per annum
per annum
Subject to a minimum of £5OO, investments may be in multiples of £lOO.
If you desire to invest for any period between 30 and 360 days you nominate
the exact date you desire your investment to mature. Rate of interest depends
on the length of the investment. For example, if the investment is made for
95 days, the rate is that specified for the 90-179 days period.
Applications for Notes can be accepted only on the printed form attached to
the prospectus. Copies of the full prospectus with application form obtainable
from: —
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
D 142
native name betcherri-gur.
It can be spelled any way that
sounds like that, but it
should be pronounced with an
ecstatic rolling of the eyes,
smacking of the lips and rub-
bing of the tummy, because
that's the general idea ; the
word means, roughly, “plurry
good tucker.”
Although there’s a fairly
■**- authentic record that one
or two budgies were landed in
England as early as 1831, Gould
is generally given the credit
for introducing them to the
Old World in 1840. In an in-
incredibly few years the tough,
adaptable, prolific little blokes
were to be found all over
Europe.
They didn't breed or survive
in a wild state in Europe’s
bleak winters, but in the
shelter of aviary conditions
they fairly thrived.
Soon every ship arriving
from Australia at Liverpool,
London, Hamburg and a
score of French, Spanish and
Dutch ports landed at least
a few pairs of budgies that had
miraculously survived the
many-months-long passage
under sail.
The first pair of budgies sold
in England were bought for
£26 —and resold the next day
for £27. But by 1850 —a bare
10 years after Gould had
landed the first of the tribe-
enough were being bred in
England, Belgium and France
to force the price down from
£6 a pair to about £l.
The Belgians and the Dutch
were the first to breed budgies
on a really large scale, and the
French and Germans followed
suit. In 1855 the most famous
collection of budgies in the
world was owned by the
Countess von Schwerin in
Berlin.
The Belgian and Dutch
breeders for a while had the
budgie-market so thoroughly
tied-up that they were able to
set their own price, and were
exporting budgies as far afield
as Russia. But the bottom was
knocked out of their “corner”
in 1864, when a ship arrived
from Australia with a cargo of
10,000 budgies.
For a while budgies could be
bought in the streets of
London for as little as three-
bob each, but to the surprise
of the breeders who were
screaming “Ruination!” the
demand for the little blokes,
known generally as “shell
parrots,” was soon again far
in excess of supply. The
Londoner who wanted to buy
his wife a budgie for Christ-
mas in 1878 had to pay £1 and
upward—at least a fiver by
today’s values.
Jn France, Toulouse be-
came the budgie - breeding
capital. Visitors to one farm
in 1888 described how at the
end of the breeding-season,
when the nest-boxes were
cleaned out, unhatched eggs
alone were carted away by the
wheelbarrowful.
Tn his wild state the budgie is
yellowish-green in colora-
tion, and that’s how he re-
mained for many years while
being bred in captivity.
Then, in 1870, the first yellow
budgie was hatched in
Holland. This was a “sport,”
as breeders call them an
accidental, freak which occurs
every so often in nature. But
this particular freak intrigued
the Dutch breeders and set
them experimenting. In a few
years they were producing
yellows to order, and in the
1880's the first blue budgies
were bred.
While all this was going on
—when about all that most
Europeans might know of Aus-
tralia was that it was where
budgerigars came from —Aus-
tralians didn’t have the slightest
interest in their most famous
native bird. The few pet-shops
that might bother stocking
them offered them for sale for
a few pence, with few takers.
Paradoxically, Australia’s
native budgerigar didn’t begin
tO/ become popular here until
we began to import him from
Europe!
His popularity here dates
from the first appearance of
the yellow variety, a few pairs
of which were imported about
1900. At that time they fetched
as much as £4O a pair. The
first blue budgies lobbed here
about 1907.
Although they’re doing roar-
ing business these days, local
budgie-breeders nearly shed
tears of nostalgia when they
recall a budgie-boom of about
30 years ago—round 1927, to
be precise. At that time the
cheeky little blokes suddenly
became the fashionable rage
in both America and Japan.
Prices of good birds jumped
from £lO or £2O a pair to £lOO
or £l2O.
In Sydney, Japanese buyers
paid £125 a pair for blue birds.
Cobalts fetched £175 a pair,
and single mauve birds as much
as £BO each. Overseas, top-class
blue birds went to as high as
£5OO a pair, and it was at this
time that a member of the
Japanese royal family paid
what is probably still a budgie
record —£700 for a pair of the
first white budgerigars ever
bred.
Nevertheless, it is only in the
last few years that budgies
have attained their present
scale of general popularity—
after all, you would scarcely
find every second household
entertaining budgies when they
were fifty-quid a pair.
Why they are so terrifically
popular isn't very hard to
understand. Why, just look at
Joe here . . .


The Peak
By S. W. LETCHFORD
The MIZ test-unit was
housed entirely within
“D site,” a cluster of
. sun - bleached plaster-
board huts, huddled around a
single hangar and well re-
moved from the main site.
Mark Selwyn, sitting outside
his hut, smoked reflectively in
the comparative coolness of
the night air.
A piano . twanged from
somewhere near at hand.
Further away a dingo howled
its sorrows. Selwyn was about
to turn-in when Lassiter
dropped by; the lean shape
of his chief materialised out
of the sandy darkness and
flopped tiredly into a steamer
chair.
Lassiter immediately began
to polish his spectacles with
grave diligence, a sure sign
that he was worried. “How
do you feel about tomorrow,
Mark?” he said brightly.
Mark guessed that Lassiter
had noted his recent pre-
occupation. He said “Ready
as always, chief.”
Lassiter settled comfortably.
He said, deliberately, “Besides
being your friend, I’m respon-
sible for tomorrow. If you’re
worried about something,
Mark, I think you’d better
tell me.”
Mark was silent for a long
while. “It’s Sue,” he said at
last. “She’s in Sydney now,'
getting a divorce.”
Lassiter sat stunned. A
guard passed on his patrol, the
Alsatian bristling, ears cocked
at the two shadows figures
on the porch.
“ ’Night Dan,” said Lassiter
who knew all his men by first
names.
“ ’Night sir. ’Night Mr.
Selwyn.”
“For God’s sake what hap-
pened?” said Lassiter when
the guard was out of earshot.
“I thought at least you two
were happy together.”
“We were, together. It’s
being apart that causes the
trouble. It’s just the flying,
of course,” Mark added
hastily, seeing Lassiter’s be-
wilderment. “I fly; she
worries. I promised to quit
after five years ; the five years
are up, but I can’t quit. It’s
as simple as that.”
“Why can’t you stop fly-
ing?”
Mark examined his hands
carefully in the darkness. “A
man has to reach the peak in
his profession before he quits.
Otherwise he must live, know-
ing that he didn’t really lick
it, that it was unfinished busi-
ness. I never reached the
peak, and it’ll never be out
Of my system until I do.”
Lassiter said, “How do you
know you haven’t reached the
peak?”
“I’ll know,” said Mark
stubbornly ; “I’ll know.”
A hush hung over the
Woomera desert. The muted
piano and chink of tools from
the hangar had ceased. Only
the lonely howl of the dingoes
remained. Lassiter said, his
voice suddenly tired and old,
“Mark ; Sue must have spent
five years fearing for you,
wondering each time she said
goodbye if it really was good-
bye. Always clinging to the
hope that your luck would
hold until a certain day. Now
you tell her that she must
hope indefinitely, and she
knows you haven’t got that
much luck left, Mark.”
“Don't you think I realise
that?” said Mark, his voice
barren. “I can’t quit until I
touch the peak, though.”
Lassiter sighed. He was
thinking of others so sure they
would know when to quit.
In fact, he reflected, they
probably had known, just
after it was too late. He
yawned elaborately. “We’d
better get some sleep." And
Mark ... if you change your
mind, tomorrow, I mean, it’ll
be all right with me.”
hangar doors rumbled
back, rolling a carpet of
bright sunlight part-way into
the dark cavern. The plane,
known to all who had built
her as “The Blade,” came out
behind a tractor, its long,
sharp nose jutting high above
the driver like some primeval
bird’s beak.
Mark joined the plane on
the concrete apron almost
immediately. He began the
long, searching external
ground check. As he finally
climbed the ladder reared
ajgainst the nose, the chase-
plane zoomed over, rocking
its wings in cheerful greeting.
Lassiter arrived, breathless
with a hundred things done
and a hundred more to do.
He climbed the ladder behind
Mark, fussing over the straps
as he leant over the cockpit.
“The liquid oxygen will be
five minutes late. You’ll have
to wait to have the evapora-
tion topped up. Make your
climb same as last time, rated
power on jets alone. When
you’re at height, give us five-
minutes warning before light-
ing the rocket-motor —I want
Tracking Radar to be right
on the ball.”
Mark grinned, pulled the
harness up a last notch, and
plugged-in to radio and emer-
gency oxygen. “Light the
blue touch-pa per and retire
immediately . . . except I don’t
retire.” For a moment their
eyes met. “Don’t worry Lass.;
it’s a good aeroplane ; it’ll be
a good rocket, too. ''Now be a
good chap and get away from
the sucking-end.”
A quarter-of-an-hour later
Selwyn turned the Blade onto
the long zero-four-zero run-
way, straddled the dotted
centre-line and let her roll a
few yards to straighten the
nose-wheel. As he went-
through the pre-.- take - off
check, the sun struck hotly
through the perspex, bringing
dark sweat patches through
his white overalls.
Lassiter, watching from
the control - tower balc on y
through powerful binoculars,
could see the glint of the con-
trol surfaces as Mark tested
them. He looked at his watch.
High overhead the Sabrejet, a
fleck of light, trailed a plume
of condensation. The Blade's
twin jet-motors whistled in
their close-set pods, working
steadily to a crescendo and
(Continued on page 44)


liilillfll
1111111 l
Ym
mmmm®
m
% *
Langford-Penny says:—
“You can remember ANYTHING AT ALL that you WANT to remember!
It' you know HOW! TRYING to remember is just not good enough.
Far. far from good enough ! Forgetfulness of things that are important
for you to remember is not the fault of a “poor” memory. If you are
a normal person—then you possess memory-ability far in excess of what
you may fondly imagine. It is very much to your advantage to
UNDERSTAND this memory-ability and be able to use it — PROPERLY!”
IS YOUR
• m. fk
i
“TRENT” WILL SHOW YOU HOW TO REMEMBER—
NAMES AND FACES: —people's names . . faces . . .initials . . . occupations
addresses . . . birthdays . . . hobbies and interests . . . ANYTHING
At ALL that you WANT to remember about people.
FlGURES:—statistical and reference figures . . . constants . . . dates . . .
prices . . . telephone numbers . . . measurements . . . etc.
WHAT YOU READ:—text and reference book material . . . trade journals
•• • Y°nr STUDIES . . no matter WHAT it is you are shown how to
“GK l ’ the essentials after-TWICE READING ! ! !
LECTI KES, CLASS ROOM WORK, ETC.—you will learn how to “take in"
t n,T e .«S?£?T t , la,s ““ antl RETAIN this knowledge PROGRESSIVELY
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR !
W ORD-tOR-WORD MEMORISING:—Iodge ritual . . . definitions . . . poetry
• • • -Quotations . . . plays . . . actors’ lines . . . TV scripts . . . ANY-
THING AT ALL that has to be known “word-for-word.’’
CONVERSATIONS: essential details from conferences . . . interviews . . •
r instructions . . . reports . . . conversations.
WHAT YOU SEE AND HEAR:—special techniques to enable you to recall
with absolute accuracy—what you particularly WANT to remember of
what you SEE and HEAR. A most important requirement of memory!
HOW TO REMEMBER AHEAD:—appointments . . . tilings that you want to
fi° . a ... ? ~c ertam t ime". . . hovv to remember the many important, things
that hit your mind at of inconvenient times, that you want
to tie “reminded ’ of later. i
BLUE-PRINTS, DIAGRAMS, PLANS, DRAWINGS, ETC.—yes, there’s a
special section for those of you who wish to remember such details.
WHERE YOU PUT THINGS:—you will thank “TRENT” to the end of your
days for showing you how to INSTANTLY remember where you left
your keys, your glasses, your pen, your screwdriver.
EQUATIONS AND FORMULAE:—engineering . . . chemical . . . navigational
: • • etc. . . . yes. several pages of the course are devoted to this
important (for some people) memory requirement.
SPELLING:—There is a section for the benefit of those who have difficulty
with correct spelling.
UNUSUAL, TECHNICAL, BOTANICAL, ANATOMICAL, FOREIGN, AND
SUCH WORDS AND NAMES:—the special section on this subject enables
you to remember such words after TWICE reading or hearing.
WHICH IS WHlCH: —stalagmite or stalactite . . . concave or convex . . .
foolscap or quarto? . . . etc. . . . never again need you be confounded
by which is which ?
LONG LISTS OF THINGS —IN CORRECT ORDER . . . FOREIGN
LANGUAGES . . . MUSIC: —“TRENT” is very COMPREHENSIVE. You
take out of it whatever is applicable to your own particular require men ts.
—taken seriously, and applied intelligently “TRENT” will also:—
stimulate your senses— “tone them up” generally.
make you more observant.
strengthen your powers of concentration.
enable you to grasp important points quickly.
increase greatly your general and specific knowledge.
develop your reasoning powers.
help you to think clearly and specifically.
enable you to “GET” the facts, quickly and accurately.
cut your studying time by 30 per cent. . . . and more.
save you much valuable time —in general.
help you to keep “mentally young.”
Success ? Or failure ?
Business executive or aspiring politician—air pilot
or clerk—industrialist or professional man —
farmer or grazier —student or housewife —it
matters not who you are, or what you are —there
can be no doubt that your success or failure is
dependent so very much upon YOUR .MEMORY!
Do you not agree?
You already HAVE the memory-ability! There is
not the least shadow of doubt about that.
It is well worth your while to learn just how this
memory ability of yours functions—how to put it
to effective use.
You can trust “Trent!”
“TRENT” is the trade name of Langford-Penny’9
seven-lesson course of instruction—
“VOUß MEMORY! HOW IT WORKS!
HOW TO USE IT!’’
The course that has already made thousands of
friends in this country alone. The course that was
rigidly, yet successfully, tested by the N-S.W.
Boliee Dept. The course of instruction that has
been acclaimed as “. . . 100 per cent., ‘fair-dinkum.’”
Are you in the panel?
In the panel at the left are listed some of the
benefits that you can expect from the “TRENT”
course. These claims are covered by WRITTEN
GUARANTEE! Place a tick against those items
that are of interest to you. AND TO THE
MEMBERS OF YOUR FAMILY!
Then —if suitably impressed and keen to learn
further details—fill in the coupon below, and post it
to us. Free literature will come to you in a PLAIN,
SEALED envelope. Your enquiry places you under
no obligation whatsoever.
“Are you studying for exams.?”
“TRENT” is the ONLY course of its kind that
deals with the application of memory to study.
Letters in our files testify to the fa<-t that
“Trented” students, apart from being successful in
their exams., have been able to —“. . . cut their
studying time down by as much as from 30 to 50
per cent. . ..” You will have abundant evidence
of this when you receive the free 16-page booklet—
“AßE YOU STUDYING FOR EXAMINATIONS?”
NO MATTER WHO YOU ARE—NO MATTER WHERE
YOU LIVE—“TRENT” CAN BE YOUR ONE-WAY
FIRST-CLASS TICKET TO
A FIRST-CLASS MEMORY!
CALL PHONE WRITE or MAIL THE
COUPON BELOW for full particulars.
“TRENT” MIND AND MEYIORY DEVELOPMENT
PTY r . LTD.,
214 Pitt Street, Sydney (next Lyceum Theatre),
and—
-61 Market Street, Sydney (opp. Woo!worths-).
Phones: MA 5686, BM 6392.
Mr. W. Langford-Fenny, Principal,
“TRENT’’ Minrl & Memory Development Pty. Ltd.,
Box 4578, G.P.O-, SYDNEY
I am genuinely interested in your course of instruc-
tion. I’lease send me, without obligation, full details.
Mr., Mrs., Miss *
FULL Address
(Print CLEARLY please)
(P.S.: If you are studying for exams., remember that
“TRENT” can cut your studying time by 30 per
cent. —and more.) ' 15.100')


The World Family Is Growing Fast
New Nations Create Problems
One strange effect of the two world
wars was the reversal of a trend
that had been in evidence for
centuries. Most previous wars
which produced a redrawing of national
boundaries had resulted in a reduction
in the number of sovereign States. The
Treaty of Versailles, with the Wilsonian
doctrine of self-determination, increased
the number, resurrecting States which
had been moribund for centuries and
creating some which had never really had
a separate existence.
The break-up of the Austro-Hungarian
Empire into the Succession States and
boundary adjustments in the Balkans
solved old problems by creating new
ones; the piecing together of much-
partitioned Poland satisfied no one except
the mapmakers, and the creation of
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania gave three
tiny republics a shaky tenancy of Soviet
Russia’s front veranda.
In the Middle East the peacemakers
effectively accomplished the liquidation
of the Ottoman Empire, but with no
effective guaiantees for the future of any
of its parts.
The end-map of World War II is still
largely undrawn ; in many parts of the
world it is drawing itself. In Europe
the Baltic States have disappeared into
the maw of Russia. The shadowy
boundaries in Central Europe will no
doubt be defined in time, but while the
number of States in that continent seems
more likely to decrease than increase,
elsewhere in the world new nations are
springing up like mushrooms after rain.
New Nations
TEI7HEN World War II broke out in 1939
the dying League of Nations had
about 50 members; a similar number
(though not the same individual States)
signed the Charter of the United Nations
in 1945. In both cases there were several
important countries outside the organisa-
tion. Germany, Italy and Japan left the
League during the 19305; the United
States never joined it. Former enemy
countries were first excluded from U.N.
and the two Germanys are still outside
the circle, though Italy and Japan have
been admitted. The number of member-
nations of U.N. has steadily increased,
the overwhelming majority of the new
members being countries in Asia and
Africa.
Some of these —India, for example—
were already well advanced on the road
to self-government, with a largely locally-
manned civil-service already functioning
and a sizeable proportion of the popula-
tion highly qualified in the various pro-
fessions ; possessing, too, a tradition of
civilisation going back a long way.
Others, however, are backward countries,
suddenly pitchforked by events into the
twentieth century, and controlled by men
who understand the outward forms of
democratic government and are prepared
to use them for their own purposes, but
who have no real understanding of what
democracy means, and certainly no
sympathy with it.
Countries admitted to U.N. in the past
few years include Burma, Cambodia,
Ceylon, Ethiopia, Ghana, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Jordan, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia,
Libya, Malaya, Morocco, Nepal, Saudi
Arabia, Sudan, Thailand, and Yemen.
Many of these States are under military
dictatorship ; some are still at the stage
of feudal despotism, with an economy
based on'slave labor. Yet all are equal
in the sight of the United Nations
Assembly, at the meetings of which all
are equally entitled to pass moral judg-
ments on the international acts of others,
while their own domestic misdeeds are
politely and studiously ignored.
International usage has never set much
store by forms of government, preferring
to deal realistically with things as they
are rather than as they should be, but
it is nevertheless rather ironical that the
United Nations Assembly, which operates
by democratic processes, should include
in its ranks so many countries whose
leaders regard democracy as a joke, and
a not very clean one at that.
World Problems .
HPhe petty - dictatorship State is, of
course, nothing new. The world has
tolerated the system in South and Central
America for generations—in that part
of the world the periodical trouoles
resulting from it can be more-or-less con-
tained within their limits. But when the
areas involved are in a region of vital
importance to the rest of the world—
such as the Middle East and South-east
Asia—the problems of the area become
the problems of the world.
Questions of less immediate import,
but which arouse considerable forebod-
ings for the future, are raised by the
emergence in Africa of States which have
no tradition of civilised independent
unity.
Ghana, the old Gold Coast colony,
is one. Independent since February, 1957,
this little country of four-million people
has a Parliament and judiciary based on
British models, but in the two years since
its establishment it has already moved a
long way from the pattern. A large
number of political opponents of Prime
Minister Kwame Nkrumah, including
some Opposition M.P.s, are in “preven-
tive detention” and the rest of the Oppo-
sition have boycotted Parliament.
Nkrumah himself, though undoubtedly
popular with his people, has ambitions
which need a much bigger stage than
Ghana for fulfilment. His dream is an
African Federation, or even an African
Union. Judging by his actions in Ghana
he would prefer the latter ; he recently
amended the Constitution to abolish
regional assemblies and to put the
judiciary under his personal control.
Nigeria, which already enjoys a large
measure of self-government, is due for
full Dominion status next year, and its
leaders don’t quite accept Nkrumah’s
own estimate of himself as leader of
African unity. When he visited Nigeria
a couple of months ago they received
him courteously, but without hysteria.
Their country is larger, more populous
and richer in resources than Ghana, and
they probably have their own ideas of
its proper place in West Africa. Nkrumah
had better luck with Guinea, the only
French African colony to opt for imme-
diate independence when General de
Gaulle’s new Constitution gave it the
chance last September. Guinea seems to
be the African example of the young
man in a hurry. The colonies were given
four alternatives they could continue
their colonial status ; become integrated
with metropolitan France; accept
autonomy within the French community :
or gain complete independence.
All except Guinea plumped for the
third choice —probably with the inten-
tion of seeking full independence later.
Guinea didn’t see any sense in waiting.
The plebiscite was held on September
28. On October 2 the Territorial
Assembly proclaimed its independence
and announced that it was now the
Republic of Guinea. Ghana and Liberia
“recognised” it the same day, Egypt a
day later and Russia on October 5.
Several other countries followed and
shortly afterwards Guinea became the
82rtd member of U.N.
Springboard For Freedom
C' uinea had no sooner announced its
independence than Nkrumah came
up with an offer of union with Ghana.
On November 23 he and the Premier
of Guinea issued a joint statement that
their two countries had agreed to become
“the nucleus of a union of West.
African States.” Later, in India, Nkrumah
spoke of Ghana as “a springboard for
African freedom throughout the con-
tinent” and said, “Our country is divided
in an artificial way between six colonial
Powers, and our country’s freedom is
meaningless until and unless the whole
continent is liberated.”
Probably the best thing Nkrumah could
do for his compatriots in the rest of
Africa would be to throw all his energies
into the development and advancement
of Ghana in order to demonstrate just
what his race can do when it is given
the opportunity.
Under modern conditions and in the
present climate of world opinion the
fight for “freedom” becomes almost a
formula of emotional phrases and slogans.
But once independence is gained much
more than that is needed. It is one thing
to struggle for independence ; it is another
to know what to do with it when you
get it.


You can easily
take sparkling
indoor flash
snaps . . .
WITH A
BROWNIE
FLASH
CAMERA
OUTFIT
BpP
: ■ ■
BCOB
Here’s the world’s favourite
“snapshooter” with its own
flasholder, flashbulbs, bat-
teries and Kodak Film in
one big-value outfit. With
this in the home the whole
family will enjoy picture-
making indoors and out,
anywhere, anytime. Ideal
for a gift . . .
£5.10.0
IT'S MADE BY
Kodak
SO YOU KNOW IT’S GOOD.
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Over to Brisbane
The stage is set for the
running of the Q.T.C.’s
£lO,OOO Stradbroke Handicap
(seven furlongs) and the
£12,415 Brisbane Cup (two
miles) at this coming weekend.
The rich sprint, run on Satur-
day, has attracted the best
horses from Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and New
Zealand, and the Cup (Mon-
day) has two good New Zea-
land stayers, Foxmara and
Balfast, included in the
weights, while Baystone, from
Sydney, winner of the last Mel-
bourne Cup, is another sound
stayer.
• • • •
The Stradbroke has been
won by seven visiting horses
in the past 10 years, and that
looks like continuing on
Saturday. Best of the Brisbane
sprinters should be Earlwood,
Hianthus and Book Link,
but latest form points to
New Zealanders Fountain-
head, Yahabeebe and Second
Earl being hard to beat, while
Sydney stables seem strongly
represented by Gay Port, Grey
Ghost, Diamond Vista and
Skyline. And Doncaster
winner Tudor Hill is a good
one from Melbourne.
Comparative outsiders filled
the places in the Ipswich
(Q.) Two - year - old Han-
dicap. Duffield, trained by C.
Davies for T. M. Millar, had
an easy task. He is a Newtown
Wonder (imp.) gelding from
Prescourt by Agincourt (imp.).
The John Canty Stakes went
to the consistent local candi-
date Hianthus, who’s in the
Stradbroke, and Diamond
Vista’s third was a possible
Stradbroke pointer. Hianthus
has won five races from his
last six starts, which is good
form in any racing.
Patrons of the Warwick
Farm midweek fixture saw an
excellent Brisbane Cup trial by
Baystone, who came from the
rear of. the field for second
money in the Allawah Handi-
cap (11 furlongs) carrying top-
weight, 9.10 (7.4 limit). He
has 9st. in the Brisbane Cup,
only 51b. above the weight he
carried in winning last year’s
Melbourne Cup. A drop of
101 b. on what he carried in his
Warwick performance should
be a considerable help over
the two miles of the Q.T.C.
race, and altogether he will be
better suited by the longer
journey.
• • • •
In beating Baystone the im-
proving Count Charles (with
a weight advantage of 341 b.)
had a decisive victory, his first
in open company. Veteran
Neil McKenna trains him for
Ernie White.
• • • •
Since 1953, when the dist-
ance was increased from six
to seven the Strad-
broke has each year been won
by Sydney - trained horses.
Kingster’s 1.23 f, made two
years ago, is fastest time for
the seven furlongs.
• • • •
The Brisbane Cup was first
run in 1866, so it’s,one of Aus-
tralia’s notable staying events.
Last year Timor, beat Baystone
and Caranna in the Cup. Other
visiting horses to win the two-
miler in recent years have in-
cluded Cambridge, Redcraze,
Lancaster, Hydrogen and
Pluto.
For the Stradbroke: Gay
Port, 1 ; Fountainhead, .2 ;
Skyline, 3.
For the Brisbane Cup:
Baystone, 1 ; Foxmara, 2;
Balfast, 3.
* * *
English Derby winner
Parthia (10 to 1) won the great
classic with veteran jockey
Harry Carr apparently taking
things calmly in the final stages.
Fidalgo (10 to 1) was second,
with the French horse, and
favorite, Shantung (11 to 2),
third. Carr, at 42, had his first
Derby success in 13 attempts,
and trainer Captain Cecil
Boyd-Rochfort won his first
blue riband in a career extend-
ing over the best part of 50
years.
* « •
Tropic Gem, winner at two
of his last four starts, has a
mixture of sprinting and stay-
ing blood in his make-up, but
he looks like developing more
as a sprinter than a distance
horse. Trained at Rosebery by
J. A. Byrne, who found the
gelding a little difficult to pre-
pare for early racing, Tropic
Gem won his first race at
Hawkesbury on April 29. He
then went to the post at long
odds for his next three races,
the latest being in the Can-
terbury Park Second Two-
year-old Handicap last Satur-
day, which he won at 50 to
1, upsetting a confident
plunge on even-money favorite
Springbok, who had won in
grand style at Warwick Farm.
Tropic Gem is by Singapore
Road (imp.) from Dashing
Belle, and maybe is the best of
the Singapore Roads to date.
One of them was offered as a
yearling at the last Randwick
auction and realised a surpris-
ing 5000gns. ; he’s a colt from
Cragnelia, and therefore a half-
brother to Nagpuni.
• • • •
Three times in minor places
before his win in the Canter-
bury Park Campsie Stakes,
Wall Street is in the T. J.
Smith stable, and much of the
money won on him—at odds-
on —came from Luna Park’s
success in the opening event,
the First Two-year-old Handi-
cap. A grey, Wall Street was
bred in New Zealand, and is
by Khorassan (imp.) from
Chubin by the grey sire
Nizami (Fr.) from Ann Acre
by Acre.
Winner of the First Canter-
bury Park Ashbury Stakes,
Royal Tradition was bred at
Sledmere Stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
and carries the all-purple
livery of the Denisons, which
livery has been long in racing.
The filly is from Royal Fantan
(imp.) by Big Game from
Chincona by Buchan from
Chinchilla by Roi Herode.
Family-lines include Dubonnet
(winner of the two-miles Good-
wood Cup) and other good
distance horses, so Royal
Tradition could develop stay-
ing power in the coming
season. This was her first win,
and she came with a strong
late run.
• • • . •
Owners Mr. and Mrs. Nor-
man Cohen had hopes of land-
ing a double at Canterbury
Park. They won the final event
with Grand Magic, but three
races earlier Edspell was
beaten into third place by
Flash Gem in the Canterbury
Handicap, after looking a
winner a furlong from home.
Edspell was well ridden by
Stan Cassidy, but wasn’t good
enough. Grand Magic has
now won half-a-dozen races
for the Cohens, who felt con-
fident of success when the sting
was out of the ground. Wan-
della improved on late starts
to gain third money. The
favorite, Star Boy (a close
second), had the run of the
race, but wasn’t quite solid
enough to hold off Grand
Magic’s final burst.
• • • •
New Zealand-bred mare
Gentle Lu —a goldmine for the
M. F. Anderson Rosehill stable
—was solidly backed for the
Canterbury Flying, and in a
close finish beat the favorite,
Squander Lad, and Remsuim.
She, too, appreciated the sting
being out of the Canterbury
track.
• • • •
With 14 wins to his credit,
Flash Gem towered above
rivals in the Canterbury Park
Handicap, and, handy to the


Between
Ourselves
X
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
lead all the way, he won with-
out trouble. Copernicus raced
well enough for a mile to jot
down for an early success.
Karendi was a first-rate
sprinter, winning the Don-
caster, the Stradbroke, the
Carrington Stakes and other
races (£23,694 in prizemoney).
One of his progeny, Port Kar,
had an easy win in the War-
wick Farm Second Engadine
Stakes, a Graduation* event for
two-year-olds. Port Kar, who
had filled minor places five
times before his opening suc-
cess, could go on to better
things. His dam, Safe Port,
is by Port Vista (imp.), and
the Port Vistas include Gay
Vista, Gay Port, My Peter and
Redbank.
Having his third run,
Wiggle’s two-year-old brother
Manrego ran home an easy
winner of the First Graduation
Stakes (for that age-group) at
the Farm. Manrego—-by Rego
(imp.) from Sweet Nymph—
looks a potential stayer:
family-lines include Aboreal,
a winner of the Queensland
Cup, and Bobrikoff, one of
the greatest of New Zealand
stayers.
* *' *
At Caulfield
The M.R.C. staged the meet-
ing at Caulfield last Saturday,
and the programme included
the club’s main jumping-events,
the M.R.C. Hurdle and the
M.R.C. Steeple. To give added
prestige to these races, the club
added trophies valued at £125
to the first-prizemoney of
£lO5O in each event.
Eager Lad took the Hurdle,
to the surprise of most of the
crowd ; it was the eight-year-
old Gay Lad gelding’s first
jumping-success for two years.
He had, however, given a lead
to the win by a good perform-
ance on the flat at the Valley
on the previous Saturday.
Trainer Bert Sawyer was one
man who anticipated the win,
and the stable profited well
from the long odds. Sawyer
sees Eager Lad as a National
hope. Hellespride’s close
second, after leading from
barrier-rise, was an even better
performance than his Novice
Hurdle win at the Valley the
previous Saturday at his first
start in a jumping-race. As
he gets more seasoned, Helles-
“Now that you've trained him, I trust that in all fairness
you'll resign from the Anglers' Club."
pride will develop into a first-
class jumper.
At Caulfield a couple, of
weeks ago the five-year-old
grey gelding Irish Sun won
the Shillabear Steeple at 66 to
1 and became the second-leg
in a £4464 tote-double. It was
said here that, previous form
apart, his win stamped him a
National prospect, and the grey
supported that opinion by win-
ning again at Caulfield last
Saturday. His performance in
taking the M.R.C. Steeple was
proof that he is a fencer well
above the ordinary. He ran
the two miles and three fur-
longs in 4.22} (track record,
4.21}). The merit lies in the
fact that the track was very
heavy, and times in other
events were slow. Eager Lad’s
3.59} in the M.R.C. Hurdle
was 9}sec. outside the record.
Irish Sun will get a sharp lift
in the weights, but that
shouldn’t stop him.
• • » •
A sidelight of the M.R.C.
Steeple was that all three place-
getters were sired by Solar
Bear, whose stock revel in
heavy going.
• •' • •
Quite the unluckiest runner
at Caulfield was the promising
two-year-old Officedale. In the
first heat of the mile Murray
Handicap the chestnut Fair’s
Fair gelding drew 19 barrier ;
handicap enough. In addition,
though, he stumbled out of the
stalls and was absolutely last
when the big field settled down.
Jack Purtell did the only prac-
tical thing and drove him
around the outside of the field.
The young gelding responded
so well that he was on terms
with the leaders at the straight
entrance. He continued to give
of his best all the way down
the straight, but the effort was
just too much, and he went
under by a nose to Dandolo.
He will make amends shortly.
The winner is a Childe Harold
gelding from Halinka.
By the luck of the draw, the
second division of the Murray
was a weak field, with top-
weight Dell Air carrying only
8.0. The hitherto maiden per-
former Sure Fire won, and it
looked an impressive perform-
ance, as the gelding skipped
right away to win by four
lengths. However, the weak-
ness of the opposition makes
it difficult to weigh the merit
of the run accurately. Cer-
tainly Sure Fire has the breed-
ing of a good horse. He is by
Helios from Mahram, who was
in her day one of the speediest
fillies in Victoria. It seems as
if Sure Fire has inherited a
nice blend of speed and
stamina, and he could go on
to success in better company.
The light-blue jacket with
the dark-blue band that Sailor’s
Guide carried to so many vic-
tories was first past the post
in the mile-and-a-half Spring-
vale Handicap. This time it
was the four-year-old Delville
Wood gelding Keysborough
who did the job for the father-
and-son team of A. C. and K.
Dibb. Keysborough, in winter
handicap company, is a useful
stayer. It was rather a shame
to see the eight-year-old mare
Pushover toiling in this event.
Several times her retirement
has been announced, but she
is still racing. She has been
a really good performer, but it
will be a surprise if she does
not prove that her winning
days are behind her.
The forecast made here two
weeks ago that Gabonia was
certain to win a race or two
in winter company quickly
came true when the former
Sydney galloper won the six-
furlongs Flinders Handicap.
It was a pleasure to watch Roy
Higgins handling Gabonia.
Turned 21 last week, the
Deniliquin lad rides with
patience and mature judgment
beyond his years. At the turn
the Gabador gelding had a
wall of horses blocking his run,
but Higgins rode “cold” until
the strain told on the leaders
halfway up the straight, where
a narrow rails-run offered, and
he drove his mount through to
win well. Higgins is out of
his time now, and will prob-
ably settle in Melbourne —and
Melbourne can do with a rider
of his ability.
• • • •
Form worked-out well in
the two heats of the Loddon
Welter. Having won narrowly
from Malarno in a similar race
at the previous Caulfield meet-
ing, Miss Valora looked the
winner of the first Loddon,
and she duly won with a lot
in hand. This time Malarno
was drawn away from Miss
Valora in the second division,
and he showed his appreciation


start the dau right!
Oi
■B®
by winning narrowly, but well.
Conditions were made to order
for Malarno. As a youngster
he was one of Brisbane’s best
gallopers, but he developed
“shelly” feet, and could not
do his best on the firm north-
ern tracks. Saturday’s success
won’t be his last this winter.
Those who watched the
£l5OO Great Southern Steeple
at Mornington last week came
away with the opinion that
Cadi—-for all that he is a first-
season jumper—could be a
danger in this year’s Grand
National Steeplechase. From
four starts over the fences Cadi
has won three times, and in
his Mornington win over the
figure-eight course he
showed fine stamina to clear
away from Solight in the
straight for a six-lengths vic-
tory. The flaw in the perform-
ance was that Cadi jumped a
few fences raggedly, and might
find the stiffer Flemington
jumps more formidable. The
Helios-Swadeshi gelding is
raced by D. E. Wedge, presi-
dent of the Cobden Racing
Club, who paid only 150gns.
for him as a two-year-old.
Nominations have closed for
the Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups, with a satisfactory
response to both races. The
V.R.C. received 477 entries for
the big Flemington race, 52
more than last year, but well
below the 1948 record of 541.
The V.A.T.C. received 462
nominations for the Caulfield
Cup, against 399 last year.
T. J. Smith, as usual, lodged
a huge entry—l.B for Fleming-
ton, 19 for Caulfield.
♦ * *
Union Test
In Brisbane the British Isles
visitors gave Australia a
towelling 17-6 in the first
Rugby Union Test. It was
6-all at half-time, but the Lions
always seemed to have the
game in hand. Only two
tries were scored, both by the
Lions; due not so much to
stout defence as to failure to
back-up and by careless
handling (both teams at fault).
Australia’s forwards, though
cutting even in scrums and
lineouts, were outplayed in
rucks and in the open by the
Lions’ pack.
The first try, by winger
O’Reilly, came a few minutes
after the start; the second, by
breakaway Smith, came in the
last minutes of the game.
Queensland winger Ken
Donald kicked two penalty-
goals for Australia, but missed
half-a-dozen other attempts.
A field-goal by Lions' fullback
Scotland, from 30yds. out, was
the real highlight of the game.
(Second Test, in Sydney this
Saturday.)
Manly and Randwick now
jointly head the Sydney Rugby
Union table. On Saturday
Manly beat East 16-9, Rand-
wick outclassed Eastwood
32-11, St. George surprised
Gordon 8-3 in a torrid forward
battle, University, with winger
Magrath scoring three tries
and forward Stuart kicking a
goal and four penalties, easily
held-out Parramatta 29-16, and
North had to stage a strong
finish to beat wooden-spooner
Drummoyne 14-13.
* * *
At the S.C.G. on Saturday
N.Z. narrowly defeated N.S.W.
23-22. The scores seesawed
back and forth in the second
half, and the issue was always in
.doubt. N.S.W. had a last-minute
chance to win, when half Bugden,
in the clear, couldn’t hold the pass.
Whichever team had won, both
played sparkling football, and gave
the crowd of 35,000 their money’s
worth. It would be hard to name
which was “the best try of the
match.” The only players who had
an off-day were the goalkickers, par-
ticularly the two N.S.W. kickers,
Parish and Graham, who could
only manage a goal apiece.
After lOmjn. the Kiwis had run
to a 10-0 lead. The first try was
made by centre Eastlake, who, after
a speedy burst, sent a brilliant
inside-pass to second-rower Ack-
land, who only had to “walk over”
—the pass inside fooled the N.S.W.
defence. Only a minute or two
later N.Z. left-winger Denton out-
paced several N.S.W. opponents in
a long run and, when brought
down close to the line, found lock-
forward Percy there in support to
cross near the post. Eastlake con-
verted both tries.
After an indeterminate spell of
play for 7min. or so, it suddenly
became all N.S.W.', with speedy
left-wingpr Moir going in for three
tries in barely more than that many
minutes. The first one, in the
corner, came after a neat blind-side
move by Bugden and Raper, the
second came after a good back-line
movement, the third was the result
of a solo effort. N.S.W. then led
11-10, but N.Z. lock Percy scored
his second try, in the corner, just
before the interval, for the Kiwis
to lead 13-11 at half-time.
After 2min. in the second half
N.Z. winger Griffiths went over in
the corner, but N.S.W. replied a
few minutes later when winger
Parish scored the first of his two
tries (which came when N.Z.’s 17st.
front-row forward Maxwell, whom
it usually took two men to stop,
had lost the ball when leading an
N.Z. onslaught).
Singling-out one or two for men-
tion, N.S.W. centre Harry Wells,
who had been passed over for
earlier rep. games, played a power-
ful game; his young partner Gas-
nier broke through several times;
Moir, of course; and, in the for-
wards, Mossop, Provan and Wilson,
who were honest workers all
through. For N.Z. new fullback
Phillips was safe and joined in
attack well, winger Denton was
fast and elusive, and in the for-
wards, besides Maxwell and John-
son, the two second-row men,
Kilkelly and Ackland, who proved
to be worthy successors to those
two great 1952 second-rowers
Atkinson and Mulcare.
First Test, at the S.C.G. on
Saturday.
* * *
Carlton now remains out-
right undefeated V.F.L. leader
after giving North its first de-
feat of the season, 14.15-10.11.
“The four” remain unchanged,
with Melbourne and St. Kilda
level on match-points one
game behind North. In the
first quarter North rovers and
ruckmen dominated, then Carl-
ton, in particular getting tre-
mendous drive from centre-
man Laurie Kerr, took
over; in the second quarter
the Blues added 6.4 to 0.2, for
a five-goal lead at half-time
which North could not bridge.
Melbourne gave South its
fourth successive drubbing,
14.17-8.8, and South is no
longer a , premiership possi-
bility. Hawthorn kept within
range of “the four” by beat-
ing Richmond 14.9-8.15, while
Essendon did the same by
accounting for Footscray
15.11-12.13: (Each team kicked
five goals in a brilliant last-
quarter in this game.) St.
Kilda beat a frightfully off-
target Fitzroy 13.9-9.26, while
an almost as badly astray
Collingwood won its second
successive game at Geelong’s
expense, 12.22-9.7. The Cats
held ’Wood goalless in the
third term, but ’Wood put on
6.7 in the last-quarter.
• • • •
Port and West continue to
head Adelaide’s premiership
table after Saturday’s seventh-
round games, with Port slightly
ahead on percentage. Both
have been beaten only once,
Port in the opening round by
West, and West in the fourth
game by Torrens. On Satur-
day Torrens, still in “the four,”
was well beaten (17.17-13.8) by
Norwood, which, under former
St. Kilda coach Alan Killigrew,
lost its first five games before
chalking-up two wins.
* * *
In Adelaide, in the fifth
Soccer Test, Heart of Mid-
lothian beat Australia 6-0 —in
four of the five Tests Hearts
have had a six-goal winning
margin ; in the other it was
eight. Australia held Hearts to
a 2-0 half-time, but once again
the Scots rattled away in the
second half. If Australia is to
beat visiting clubs it will have
to pick the best available squad
at the start of the season, and
keep it playing as a team.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.K. ARMS FOR IRAQ
Oritish press reaction to the
Government’s announce-
ment that it had approved the
sale of arms to Iraq is pretty
well summarised in three
London papers.
In a letter to the “Daily
Telegraph,” Lord Birdwood
notes that “it could not have
been an easy decision, and the
Government would admit that
it was in the nature of a gamble.
Indeed, it would be a tepid
sort of Government which
never accepted a risk.
“In this case the reasoning
seems briefly to be that some-
how and somewhere Iraq
would in any case have pro-
cured arms. It was therefore
as well that she should receive
them from the United King-
dom, thereby providing
General Kassem with strong
arguments at home for keeping
Iraq in alignment with the
West. Naturally this assumes
that the General wishes so to
preserve his country.
“The Government is rein-
forced in the knowledge that its
decision has the approval of
Persia and that all those in-
volved were consulted.
“The doubt in the minds of
some of us concerns the Egyp-
tian reaction. As one who can
claim to have known the mind
of the late Nuri es-Said, I have
no reason for solicitude on be-
half of President Nasser.
Nevertheless I bear in mind
two factors related to this
decision.
“The first concerns the vital
and continuing significance of
the Suez Canal. As a matter of
practical interest I suggest that
eventually, without friends on
the Canal, most of the oil can
always be held to ransom j
whereas the passing of the
Iraq oil into the hands of a
hostile control, while being
thoroughly inconvenient, would
not be disastrous.
“My second doubt concerns
a moral aspect. By our action
we may conceivably secure a
few more years of co-operation
with the West for Iraq. But
there is a price. Others could
easily find themselves in the
same position as Iraq. On a
long-term basis is it not eventu-
ally in international interests
that those others should know
now that the game of playing
East off against West and vice
versa will not pay?
“I submit these views more
in hesitation than certainty.
Needless to say, if the Govern-
ment’s decision produces those
results which they have in
mind, I would be more than
ready to rejoice at my own mis-
judgment.”
The “Economist” comments
editorially that “perhaps
General Kassem only asked
VICKY, IN LONDON "NEW STATESMAN.”
for British arms because he
thought he would be refused
them”:
“He threatened to finish
with the West and turn to
Russia if he did not get arms ;
but the docks at Basrah are
already busy with the unload-
ing of Russian arms. The
whole orientation of Iraqi
policy since the revolution last
July has been towards Russia
and the East. The traffic in
cultural, economic and military
missions has been moving only
between Baghdad and Eastern
capitals. Russian officers cruise
around Baghdad in jeeps pro-
vided for the Iraqi Army by
the United States.
“For practical reasons the
Russians may not want Iraq
as a fully-fledged satellite. It
would provoke hostility in the
Arab and Asian world and it
would be difficult to support
without a land-link. If the
Iraqis were practical they
would consider the economic
implications of cutting them-
selves off completely from their
oil-customers in the West. It is
far more likely, however, that
Iraq's future will be deter-
mined by politics and emotions
and not by economics.
“The arms promised to
General Kassem will not
seriously increase his power to
threaten his neighbors. None
of them has joined in President
Nasser’s hysterical attack on
Britain and Iraq. The Shah of
Persia said that Iraq, as an
independent country, had
every right to buy arms
wherever it could. Detailed
negotiations will delay delivery
of the tanks and aircraft for
at least 12 months. There may
be time to find out whether
the Government’s confidence
in General Kassem’s ability to
remain independent is justified.”
The “Spectator” remarks
that “the arms apart from
being handy things with which
to overawe, some day, the
British staffs of the Iraq
Petroleum Company's installa-
tions —can only be regarded as
a threat to the United Arab
Republic ; and thus we find
ourselves again appearing to
take sides in a quarrel between
Arab States: a position that
has brought us nothing but
humiliation in the past. Not
only that: we can be —and
we are being—shown by
Colonel Nasser as ready to take
sides with an already fellow-
travelling Arab State against
Arab nationalism.
“It may be, of course, that
the spite which is still felt by
Conservatives and particu-
larly on the back-benches —
towards Colonel Nasser makes
it difficult for this Government
to offer any friendly gesture
towards Egypt, such as an
apology for Suez or a sub-
stantial loan ; yet without some
such gesture as a balance to
our gesture to General Kassem,
the Arab world will go on
believing and rightly that
we would rather risk Com-
munism in the Middle East
than tolerate a nationalist
movement led by a Levantine
who once offended an English
gentleman who wasn’t very
well at the time.
“It will also go on believing
—and rightly that we are
ready to back Hussein, a
traitor to Arab nationalism,
in Jordan, and Kassem, a toady
of Soviet Communism, in Iraq,
if by doing so we can keep the
Arab world divided, for it is
only by such a division that
we can hope to retain any last
shreds of influence at all, and
that not for long.
“Particularly, it is unfortu-
nate that this latest witless
stroke should have more-or-less
coincided with the recent
arrival in Cairo of delegates
who are deputed to restore our
trade-relations with Egypt.
They will find it hard to ex-
plain away the British Govern-
ment’s decision without draw-
ing the attention of Colonel
Nasser and his advisers to a
sentence in the ‘Daily Tele-
graph’ that is characteristic
both of the cynicism and of
the sense of honor not only
of that paper but of the
Government that it supports
and serves.
“Having admitted the
danger ‘that Britain’s decision
will be interpreted as primarily
an anti-Nasser move,’ the
leader goes on: ‘But since the
arms will not actually be
shipped for about 12 months
the decision is revocable.’ In
other words, you can always
break your promise, if it be-
comes inconvenient. How can
the Arabs be blamed for be-
lieving that the British are
hypocrites as well as fools?
And how eagerly are the


Egyptians expected to do busi-
ness with a nation of this kind
of shopkeepers?”
The Russell Campaign
'IVfRiTiNG in the British re-
** view “The Twentieth
Century,” Paul Ignotus, chair-
man of the expatriate Hun-
garian Writers’ Association,
makes an interesting contribu-
tion to the discussion of nuclear
disarmament :
“Today the greatest realist is
Bertrand Russell —not in spite
of being a rationalist Utopian
but because of it. Most of the
tenets asserted in his recent
volume, Common Sense and
Nuclear Warfare, are what he
calls them—commonsense. But
it needs a great and paradoxical
philosopher to formulate a truth
which is both too obvious and
too fantastic to be believed.
He proves that mankind can
be exterminated by nuclear
arms. He also proves that any
unilateral or multilateral pledge
to refrain from nuclear warfare
is futile unless it is followed
by general restrictions on
national > sovereignty. He
says:—
If all existing nuclear weapons had
been destroyed and there were an
agreement that no new ones should
be manufactured, any serious war
would, nevertheless, become a
nuclear war as soon as the bel-
ligerents had time to manufacture
the forbidden weapons.
“He recognises that
fanaticism and nationalism are
the two main obstacles to the
‘creation of an international
authority with power to enforce
its decisions.’ As a result of
nuclear weapons, he says, any
separate State has become as
untenable as the armed castles
after the invention of gun-
powder. World government has
become the only alternative to
an ever-present threat to all
our lives ; and world govern-
ment can neither be brought
about nor work without toler-
ance prevailing—that is, with-
out democratic control.
“It may be partly Lord
Russell’s fault that the echo of
his campaigning has been at
odds with his own conclusions.
While the supporters of
nuclear armament liked to
ignore his premises, the anti-
nuclear crusaders simply kept
repeating his idea that survival
was more important than any-
thing else, .and jumped to
emotional conclusions without
taking the trouble to ponder
the consequences of one or
another proposal.
“In fact, the remedy they
suggest unilateral and un-
conditional renunciation of
nuclear arms —would be an
invitation to the aggressors
not only to enslave Britain but
also to obliterate it as a
potential source of danger. By
Lord Russell’s arguments it can
be proved that disaster would
be courted rather than averted
by following the advice of the
Aldermaston enthusiasts.
“Lord Russell may have
tactical reasons for hot making
this clear in so many words ;
perhaps mistakenly, he is
more concerned with drawing
attention to the danger than
with stressing the futility of
one or another remedy. For
this very reason he ignores
some fundamental differences
between ‘East and West,’ or the
U.S. and the U.S.S.R., while
trying to appeal to both. He
criticises his critics, who, he
says, ‘do not think that those
who prefer life rather than
death, even under Communism
or under capitalism, as the case
may be, should be free to
choose the alternative they
prefer.’
“Surely he is aware of the
difference between the ' treat-
ments meted out to pro-
Communists by Washington
and pro-capitalists by Moscow.
If, however, he hopes he will
be able to influence Soviet
leaders by the courtesy of
ignoring such shades of differ-
ence, he is justified in trying.
1 do not think that courtesy is
sufficient to convince them ;
but their fear of a coming
Hitler or an existing Mao Tse-
tung may be a help.”
Soviet Census
A s London “Economist”
sees it, the most striking
conclusion to be drawn from
the preliminary results of the
new Soviet census, published
in “Pravda” on May 10, is
that “Soviet war-time losses
were even more terrible than
was once thought”:
“The Soviet population last
January amounted to 208.8
million. Twenty years ago,
when the last census was taken,
it was estimated at 170.6
million. Taking into account
the increase in population due
to territorial changes (about 20
million) and projecting previous
rates of growth, the total
population now should be at
least 30 million higher than
it is.
“The difference shows the
price in military casualties,
civilian victims and reduced
Faith in the
Future
From time to time a document which is highly
toned to Australia’s expansion stands out in the
medley of advice that is tendered to Governments.
Such a paper is before me now in the report
which the President of the Queensland Land Court,
Mr. W. L. Payne, has submitted on Commission
to that State’s Parliament on future use of the land.
It is significant for two reasons. Queensland
covers nearly one-quarter of our continental
surface, and by simple good fortune has a large
proportion of this country’s best agricultural and
pastoral soil. And the man reporting on it is one
of the most eminent land authorities we have.
The Payne report is comprehensive, and I can
do little more here than commend it in detail to
those who see in maximum use of our land
resources the surest means of strengthening the
whole of our Australian foundations.
But. as indicating the extent of our dormant
land wealth, it should be mentioned that it
recommends special assistance for clearing and
developing sixteen-million acres of good Queensland
country now under brigalow scrub in a pocket
stretching five hundred to six hundred miles north
to south behind the coast —in fact, extending
another two hundred miles into New South Wales.
Development of the Unused brigalow lands
would bring into production in Queensland alone
an additional area as large as Tasmania! -
They lie within the twenty to thirty inch
rainfall belt; within a long eastern zone of assured
moisture where —to quote the report —“with
intensive development. .. .the increased productivity
of Australia and of Queensland is incalculable.”
The art then is to create on the natural
advantages we have. Wherever the productive lands
are waiting — there must the extra effort be made.
The rest, in total industry, will follow.
And the way to look at it is in the big
Australian way, over-sighting State boundaries,
which, after all. are only fences forced upon us
by the processes of growth from colonial size
to nationhood.
H. Hastings Deening


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia)
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
births due to war-time separa-
tion that Russia had to pay
for victory. The tragic extent
of the losses is confirmed by
the fact that there are now
20-million more women than
men in the Soviet Union and
that this discrepancy only
applies to generations which
were adult at the end of the
conflict.
“For a long time Soviet
leaders did not want to reveal
the extent of their losses, fear-
ing that these would not arouse
sympathy, but would merely
be interpreted as a sign of
weakness. But now the Soviet
Union’s vital statistics have
again become very impressive.
The deathrate has been re-
duced to 7.5 per 1000 ; with a
marriage-rate (12 per 1000)
that is reputed to be the highest
in the world and a birthrate of
25 per 1000, the Soviet popula-
tion should now be increasing
by about 3.5 million every
year.
“Another interesting feature
of the report is the rapid de-
velopment of the eastern
regions of the country the
Urals, Siberia, the Far East and
Central Asia, areas where
many mushroom towns have
sprung-up. In the Soviet Union
as a whole the urban popula-
tion has risen from 60 million
on the eve of the war to 99.8
million, and it now accounts
for 47.8 per cent, of the total.
“But it is generally admitted
that migration from the
countryside can no longer
proceed at the same pace. At
the same time the post-war
bulge has not yet quite reached
working-age. A pledge to
reduce working-hours makes it
the more necessary to increase
the productivity of the avail-
able labor-force. Modernisa-
tion of production will, in fact,
be the main topic when the
party-leaders meet next.”
Notting Hill Again
T. ondon .papers have again
been reporting clashes
between white and colored
groups in Notting Hill. The
“New Statesman'’ notes that “a
cloud of tension lowers over
the district; there are nightly
outbreaks of minor violence ;
recently a policeman has been
wounded by a knife wielded
by a white youth, and an un-
offending Negro, returning to
his lodgings from hospital
treatment, was stabbed to death
in the sight of help on the
public highway. The police
suggestion that the motive of
New York “Herald Tribune.”
WHILE EVERYONE’S GONE TO THE FIRE.
this murder was robbery rather
than race makes very little
difference in the context of
Golborne Road. The victim
was black—the hands which
struck him down were white.
“In this tense situation
Mosley has set himself up as a
prospective Parliamentary
candidate, and his henchmen
are at work up and down the
streets of North Kensington,
preaching racial separation on
the platform, whispering racial
hatred in the cafes and clubs.
“To counter racial propa-
ganda are ranged a number
of ‘welfare’ organisations
working to promote harmony
between black and white. The
result of it all? Not, alas, the
peace which, it was too easily
assumed by people outside,
would follow Mr. Justice Sal-
mon’s exemplary sentences on
those who led the riots of last
summer, but a smouldering
fire of tension in which the
avoidance of another blaze
depends not so much on sense
and goodwill as on the size
and readiness of the reinforce-
ments which stand-by every
evening in the local police-
stations.
“What can the rest of us
do about it? First, we must
recognise, as we have been
slow to do, that the problem
is both urgent and dangerous:
the welfare-work now being
done, though admirable and
necessary, is not enough. Last
year’s violence was a grave
enough warning, but little
official action has followed.
Indeed the Government has a
far greater responsibility than
it has yet admitted.
“Take the recurring allega-
tions, for instance, of police
bias against the Negroes. No
doubt they are exaggerated—
possibly baseless. But they are
sufficiently circumstantial to
require thorough investigation.
Take the activities of the
Fascists. Is it possible, despite
all the difficulties, to invoke
the law against them? And,
if possible, is it_ desirable? The
voice of decency and reason
loses some of its cogency if
it needs a policeman to silence
its traducers. Take housing.
Can nothing really be done by
emergency measures to
eliminate the filthy slums (and
the racketeering landlords) of
North Kensington? Or is it
that the Government is un-
willing to admit the existence
of a problem which would
justify emergency measures?”
One emergency measure was
proposed, but not by any
official body. It was reported
and commented on by “Man-
chester Guardian”:
“At a conference of a body
calling itself the Socialist
Labor League yesterday, Mr.
Peter Fryer, editor of the
league’s ‘Newsletter,’ urged
that the Labor movement in
Notting Hill should form
‘strong-arm squads’ against
‘Fascists’ in order to ‘protect’
residents from violence.
“The Socialist Labor League
is a Trotskyist organisation of
small importance, but there is
a danger that hot-headed words,
however unrepresentative, may
evoke a hot-headed response.
If Fascist-minded white people
are anxious to stir up trouble
against the colored residents of
Notting Hill, nothing could
serve them better than the
emergence of rival gangs or
‘strong-arm squads,’ however
well intentioned.
“Violence begets violence,
and no one in a civilised com-
munity should set himself up
to do the work of the law. Mr.
Fryer suggested that his ‘strong-
arm squads’ need not imply
violence, for their work could
be done by ‘mass demonstra-
tion.’ That is dangerous non-
sense : any ‘mass demonstra-
tion’ in a disturbed district
would invite reprisal. Violent
manifestation of anti-racial
feeling in any shape or form
must be put down by the law.
And only the law can put it
down. Those who try to take
the law into their own hands
are furthering race-hatred, not
curing it.”
Pressure on Japan
/commenting on the Kishi
Cabinet’s “smart rebuff”
of Russia’s demand that Japan
should refuse to admit nuclear
weapons into the" country,
London “Time and Tide”


If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
Gillette
is the only way to get a decent shave
What a clean feeling when you shave with water . . . lather
. . . and a Gillette blade in a Gillette one-piece razor! A man
couldn't ask for a more refreshing, a more satisfying, a
smoother shave. If you have tough whiskers or like the
heft of a heavy razor, this razor is just right for you—
the Gillette Heavy weight. It is one of the Gillette
3-weight Trio. The others are: Light weight—right for
you if your skin is sensitive or you prefer a light razor,-
Medium weight—for average skin and beard. Each is in a
handy travel case containing a convenient dispenser of
Blue Gillette blades with a compartment for used blades.
Available now at your favourite store only 15/- each.
«S3
saffi
; '.•••'
&&&
«&:<•:
'
•til
>:■:■ •: •:•:•:• • ••
»sj§B®x
A: v:;! ; 1:V:'':
... ■ <
Mi.
'■.'■-. s'-: ••••••••';
;.....
Hi
mmm
Bil Hill.
v '<S>&
: : S'
Iliiflll
m
,: : : : ' S ■
A> «
•r^SiwtfXvi
■
...; . >; • ■.' XvX
ill;
: : : : : : : : :
pfli
■
ft
f M "A v \ ' ' "''A
r ' A
Ml
■
; r ■:.;.:. '
Mi
y
'•&:.•. -..-. v.. v... S S
Ik' i ■?■ ■ |
■
■
1 |
WK
H 3 Af?*. %
S j '
’
•■' .v:':«;<;
: : x : ■' : '
MM&
Ms
' : :
S»ssmSr3S
s
iHIII
■M£
. !
: ; :: . :•:•.•':' .' : •... ..
mtiZm
....;. .> AA. A”-
Wmm
WMWMWa
IvA:
mm
...... ..•:•.
'
giggS
.
::x
m ■
.
By^^BgßBBBffl
:A.i:
> I itn^
c
m
y
5?
S?
P 2388
notes that “Japan is increas-
ingly feeling pressure from her
near neighbors, the U.S.S.R.
and China”:
“ ‘China cannot sit quiet and
contemplate the resurrection of
militarism in Japan,’ was the
strongly worded threat issued
by Chou En-lai at the recent
Congress of the Chinese Com-
munist Party, while he was at
the same time j-eiterating the
theme that China never inter-
fered in the internal affairs of
other countries.
“China has made clear on.-
many occasions the price that
Japan must pay for the resump-
tion of trade-relations between
the two countries. During the
visit of a Japanese Socialist
delegation to Peking in March
the secretary-general of the
party, Inejiko Asanuma, opened
his talks with the Chinese
Government representatives by
condemning their ‘common
enemy’ the United States. The
communique issued at the end
of a two-day discussion called
for immediate, official full-
dress negotiations to normalise
the relatioris between China
and Japan, which had deteri-
orated because of the ‘hostile
attitude of the Kishi Govern-
ment.’ Peking made it clear
that unless these negotiations
were started there would be no
resumption of trade.
“Japanese reaction to this
communique was vehement,
and it was disavowed by many
Socialists. Far from influenc-
ing the local elections in favor
of the Socialists, the Liberal
Democrats ‘Government Party'
won decisive victories. Japan's
greatest threat from Com-
munism is not external (for
where the danger is open the
Japanese react sharply) but
internal, since the Communists
have infiltrated into the trade-
unions, the Socialist party and
the ‘so-called’ intellectual
circles.
“These elements have un-
limited funds at their disposal,
and their main objective is to
spread insidious thinking
throughout the country a
thinking that is seemingly
divorced from outside Com-
munist pressure, and which
will demand Japan’s neutrality.
“If Japan and Germany can
be neutralised as a first step
towards incorporating them
into the Communist bloc,
Moscow and Peking will be
well satisfied.”


AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012, 8W4991
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING,
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND O. S. PETTERSEN
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches, and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT.
shaking the plane on its
spindly legs with their rage.
In the hot, cluttered cockpit,
Mark held her firmly with the
brakes and waited. When he
was satisfied he called “MIZ
ready for take-off.”
“This is tower . . . you may
take-off, MIZ.” The duty con-
troller had switched the
speaker in circuit. Lassiter
held the balcony rail tightly.
The Blade had flown before ;
16 hours, all-told. But this
was her first take-off with
rocket-fuel bubbling in her
tanks. His mind raced over
details, figures, details . . .
22,0001 b. of jet- and rocket-
fuel . . . 90001 b. of thrust for
the take-off . . wind, seven
knots from two . . . three . . .
zero . . . all-up weight 46,0001 b.
His lips moved nervously.
The assistant controller, a
young corporal, watched him
curiously through the tinted
glass from the tower.
“The Boffin’s saying his
prayers, darned if he isn’t,” he
said inaudibly. In a way, he
was right.
Mark released the brakes
and the nose reared visibly
on its long front-leg. She
swung slightly and he rud-
dered sharply back astride the
centre-line. The speed built-
up powerfully, thrusting the
seat at his back. He braced
his elbowsr'and held her down
as she raced through the slight
dip near the half-way mark
on the runway. The heat-
mirage that lay there retreated
to the distance. With 180
knots indicated, he brought
the control back firmly and
she lifted, mushed heavily,
wallowed, kissed the spinning
wheels lightly again and then
climbed resolutely away on
twin tails of black smoke.
T assiter watched the wheels
- L ' tuck neatly away, and
released a long, pent-up
breath. The Blade, her stubby
knife-edged wings riding on
an ever-stiffening surge of air
as the speed rose, changed
subtly ; from a gawky, leggy
animal into a sleek, deadly,
winged fish.
Voss in the Sabrejet, riding
at 50,000 ft. in the thin, cold
indigo of the tropopause,
watched the Blade swimming
up to him in effortless silence.
A sonic boom rattled back
over the track-scarred desert
as the Blade thrust through
to super-sonic speed as it
climbed. And then suddenly
it was there level with him,
and then banking away in a
graceful turn that bared its
shark’s belly.
Voss checked the Sabre cn
course and eased it up to the
required speed. “Playmate on
course two-seven-zero, angels
five-one, speed Mach point-
nine, he radioed.
Mark’s voice cracked in-
stantly: “MIZ to tower . . .
turning onto course behind
playmate, will stand-off to
port . . . five minutes to ignit-
ing rocket-motor.” Mark eased
the power and she closed
alongside with the momen-
tum. “Stand-by playmate . . .
and don’t get singed.”
“Roger MIZ.” Voss waved
and started his cameras. The
Blade hung motionless on the
thin air two hundred yards to
his left.
In the control-tower far
below, the tape - recorders
turned silently, storing every
word. The two planes were
well out of sight now. Lassiter
went into the air-conditioned
tower and sat down heavily,
eyes blinking as he polished
and repolished his spectacles.
Of the two pressing prob-
lems, how best to stop a sur-
prise air attack and how best
to launch one, Lassiter was
glad, ostrich-like perhaps, that
his project dealt with launch-
ing. The Blade, an ultra-
sonic interceptor, jet-powered
for range and sustained super-
sonic climb, was today for
the first time to air-test the
rocket-motor that would boost
it to a speed that would place
it within striking-distance of
the supreme bogey, the bal-
listic missile. A self-seeking
projectile to be housed in the
Blade’s underbelly would
complete the task.
Voss stiffened as the last
minute ticked away. Involun-
tarily he veered the Sabre
slightly further away from the
Blade. Watching intently he
saw the experimental plane’s
stubby wings shorten still
more, to mere embryos or fins
as they smoothly retracted.
The nose lifted a shade and
she mushed slightly on the
reduced lift. “Emergency
oxygen on . . . opening hydro-
gen peroxide . . . opening
liquid oxygen . . . wings re-
tracted . . . opening K fuel
. . . igniting now.” Mark’s
voice was cool, preoccupied.
A thin trail of white vapor
began to spume from the tail
orifice. The vapor swelled,
denser. Nothing else hap-
pened. “No ignition . . .
repeat, no ignition.”
Voss could see Mark bend-
ing forward in the cockpit.
The vapor still billowed, trail-
ing now in a long tubular
cloud. Again Mark’s voice:
“Ah . . . K valve frozen . . .
heater circuit to”—
A searing blast cut-off
Mark’s words. The Sabre,
flipped onto its back like a
stunned fish, slid giddily down
sky. When Voss regained
control the Blade had dis-
appeared. Only a faint trail
wheeling upwards in a grace-
ful curve towards the blank
emptiness of space remained.
Below in the tower the three
men stood transfixed.
Voss’s voice, shaken,
crackled over the air: “This
is playmate . . . I’ve lost him
. . . there was an explosion
... no visible debris . . just
a 'trail heading . . .” The voice
hesitated. Where was it head-
ing? . . . “heading outwards,”
the voice concluded.
“Orbit area . . . stand by,”
said the controller. He wanted
time to think. Lassiter stood
motionless by the console.
“Playmate roger,” said the
radio.
TC ven as he freed the valve,
Mark knew that he had
made a mistake. The realisa-
tion surged out from his mind
and along the nerves, but the
deft fingers were too quick. The
rocket-motor lit with a searing
stripe of flame that gushed
back along the trailed path of
un-ignited vapor and bounced
forward into the gas-filled
plenum chamber. The compli-
cated maze of injectors and
controlling nozzles fused into
a blob of golden liquid metal
and the rocket ran away.
Miraculously the plane didn’t
catch fire. Ma r k’s head
slammed brutally back, crush-
ing into the foam-rubber sup-
port, and a stifling curtain shot
with pain enveloped him. The
Blade, rearing on its stub wings,
streaked off like a comet.
When consciousness returned,
Mark was in a weird, numb,
silent world of glittering violet
light and harsh black shadows.
Maps floated against his face
like white birds and when he
brushed irritably at them his
arms flailed uncontrolled
against the perspex canopy and
his body lifted- against the
Restraining - straps. His
wrenched neck muscles
throbbed. Outside to the left,
a huge blotchy semicircle
lifted slowly into view and
passed giddily up over his head
He recognised clearly the out-
line of Western Australia, and
beyond, a lead-grey ocean
gleamed dully away to the rim.
In the tower the corporal,
an avid reader of science
fiction, stared at the controller
with wide eyes. “It’s gone into
space . . . another bloody
satellite.”
Lassiter, without taking his
eyes from the empty sky,
snapped “Nonsense. It couldn’t
possibly attain escape velocity.”
The controller rubbed his
face doubtfully, avoiding the
corporal’s excited eyes.
Sitting in the slowly-rotating
metal shell, curving upwards
into the soundless fringes of
space, Mark clutched auto-
matically at the slack, useless
controls. The instruments had
gone crazy ; most of them were
jammed hard against the maxi-
mum reading - stops. The
rocket-motor had gulped its
fuel and died ; both jet-engines
had stopped, apparently
through fuel-surge during the
acceleration. The starting-
batteries were dead, and life-
giving air was no longer being
compressed into the sealed
cabin. He sat back helplessly
while speed and gravity
wrestled for possession of the
Blade. Steadily, the emergency
oxygen hissed away the last
minutes. '
After the first few frozen
minutes in control, Lassiter
jerked into action: “Order air
search red . . . call on MlZ’s
frequency and keep calling.”
He whirled: “Corporal, get
Tracking Radar’s report and
keep them on the line.”
It was quite peaceful in the
Blade’s cockpit. The slow
rotation had ceased and the
earth lay out of sight below
the upthrust nose. Mark’s
thoughts floated gently, like his
weightless body within its
straps. He wished he could tell
Sue how easy and peaceful it


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce:
TO IRIS MAY SMITH late of -Lyn-
wood” Mendooran. —TAKE NOTICE that
FRANK OAKLEY SMITH has Hied a
Petition for Divorce No. 1500 of 1959
on the grounds of habitual drunkenness
and neglect of domestic duties for three
years and upwards and also of habitual
drunkenness during that period rendering
yourself unfit to discharge your domestic
duties If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Cpurt Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 17 th
August 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from BLAKE
& RING, Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUG H A N ,
Registrar.
was going to be—not a bit like
her imaginings.
The radio was still receiv-
ing; a thin, reedy crackling
crept into the headset; he
frowned at the intrusion until,
like a slender thread with the
past, he recognised a human
voice: “MIZ . . . MIZ . . .
this . . . is . . . tower ... do
you read me ... do you read
me?” Mark clutched suddenly
at the voice.
“Reading you strength two
. . . MIZ reading you strength
two . . . over.” Mark waited
breathlessly, but tower con-
tinued to send out its plaintive
call: “MIZ from tower. . .
do you read me?”
Mark realised that his trans-
mitter wasn’t operating. But
just hearing the voice was
something. Ahead, creeping
slowly up above the nose now,
was the horizon. With a thrill
of hope Mark knew that the
Blade had at last nosed over,
obedient to gravity, and was
making her re-entry plunge
towards the earth and air again
—air to breathe, air for the
control surfaces to clutch at,
air to ride its life under the
wings.
He reached down, feeling
weight flowing over his body
now, and grasped the wing
retraction-lever. A new voice
came to him now. Lassiter,
he recognised. “Mark.” Las-
.siter ignored radio procedure.
“Don’t extend the wings, if
you hear me don’t extend
them. We have you on the
radar screen. Your speed is
down to Mach two-point-five
and slowing as- you re-enter
denser air. The plane will
break-up if you extend the
wings at that speed. If you
hear me, and have control,
start a right-turn.”
A/fARK took his hand away
from the lever. Details
were filling-in on the earth-map
below. The cockpit was
heating-up now, and dull-red
patches glowed on the nose as
air friction tore past the Blade.
Fighting-down the welling
panic, he worked on the con-
trols. After a while the horizon
began to slide slowly to one
side.
“He’s turning . . . Radar says
he's turning right.” The cor-
poral’s face gleamed with sweat
in spite of the air-conditioning.
“He must have heard you, sir.”
Lassiter, mind racing behind
blank eyes, was at the radio
again: “Keep turning, Mark.
We’ll tell you when your
heading is right. You’re down
to ninety-two thousand feet and
slowing nicely. You’re still
tool fast to jump. Hang on.
I’ll tell you when.”
“He’s coming round onto
course for base,” said the
corporal.
“Straighten-out now, Mark,”
Lassiter barked instantly.
“Hold that course if you can,
you’re headed for home —it’ll
be easier to find you when you
jump.” Lassiter looked down
at the glass-topped desk and
rubbed his eyes wearily.
“Three Hunters of Air
Search are airborne, sir,” said
the controller.
“Radar says plot steady on
zero-nine-zero for base. Speed
Mach one-point-six. Range
miles, closing.”
The corporal was staring west,
futilely into the distance.
“At least he must have a
directional gyro working,” said
Lassiter out loud. “If he can
just get down to Mach one, or
even one-point-one, he can
bail-out safely. The automatic
’chute will take care of him
once he ejects.” A thought
struck him. “Cabin pressure,”
he said violently. “If the cabin-
pressure pump’s failed, and I
should think everything has
failed, he’s only got the emer-
gency oxygen-supply. He
grabbed at the microphone-
stand: “Mark. Watch your
oxygen.”
■But Mark was already
watching his oxygen. The flow
meter-disc revolved in fitful
jerks and the indicator wavered
unsteadily. Less than a minute
left, he calculated, and reso-
lutely selected the wings out
to full-span—it was now or
never.
The Blade checked in its
stride, lunging Mark forward
against the straps. Even above
the wind-noise he heard the
crack of strained spars some-
where in the airframe. But
the plane held together. He
trimmed the nose down again,
prayed and selected dive-brakes
“out.” The plane creaked like
a yacht hit by a squall. He
was reaching for the canopy-
release when the oxygen-feed
bubbled away to nothing, and
he slumped back into the
blackness.
“Radar says he’s subsonic
. . . Mach point-nine.” The
corporal’s voice broke with
excitement. A transmitter
hissed and a new voice
broke in:
“Tower . . . this is Hunter
Red One. I see him. Angels
three-six, diving, wings and
dive-brakes fully extended.”
Lassiter leaned forward
urgently: “Mark . . . eject . . .
get out now . . . jump, man.”
The Hunter pilot came back.
“No change. His canopy is
still in place . . . angels three-
two.”
“Close him, Red One . . *
signal him to jump.”
“I’m twenty feet off his port
wing. I think he’s unconscious.”
“God.” Lassiter beat at the
desk. “So close, so close,” he
said.
The corporal lit a cigarette
with unsteady hands, the
phone hooked between his
chin and shoulder. The con-
troller ignored the forbidden
smoke that curled up.
“Angels two-one,” said the
Hunter.
“He’s got air surely . . .
twenty-one thousand feet . . .
it’s possible to breathe?” the
controller pleaded.
“That cockpit’s a sealed cap-
sule,” said Lassiter. “If the
pumps afe dead, he’s only got
emergency oxygen —unless he
can jettison the hood or open
the atmospheric-valve . . .”
T>ut the Blade’s cockpit was
no longer a sealed capsule.
Tortured by the bending main-
spar, a great split-was venting
air in a sighing rush. A sudden
glint whipped away behind the
diving plane.
“He’s jettisoned the canopy.”
The Hunter pilot’s voice was
jubilant.
They waited, Lassiter pictur-
ing Mark, willing him, almost,
to pull-out the connecting-
leads, put his feet back on the
safety-bar, tuck-in his elbows
and fire the ejection charge.
The Hunter sheered away,
waiting for the seat to come
somersaulting up out of the
cockpit. The pilot could see
Mark clearly now, busy in
the air-blast, protected now
only by the small armored-
glass shield.
Red One said incredulously:
“He’s levelling-out. 1 believe
he’s going to try and bring
it in.”
At that moment the cor-
poral dropped the phone and
shouted “Visual contact, 1 see
them . . . there they are.”
Lassiter was gripping the
microphone- stem now,
knuckles showing white:
“Mark, get out. Don’t be a
fool ; jump while you’ve got
enough height.”
The Blade was sinking fast.
Mark began the turn for the
runway at 3000 ft., gliding
steeply to maintain speed. He
retracted the dive-brakes and
blew the wheels and flaps down
with the emergency-bottle.
“Mark, you crazy fool, get
out, do you hear me? Jump..”
Mark grinned crookedly at
the searing wind. “This busi-
ness I’m going to finish,” he
shouted into the slipstream.
Then he thought of Sue
again and began to pray, drop-
ping the nose a little as the
Blade juddered its warning of
a stall. He crossed the dog-
fence at a bare 300 ft., the
ground-shadow and the plane
racing at 200 miles an hour to
a meeting somewhere ahead.
Faintly, above the wind, Mark
could hear the crash-sirens
moaning.
The runway swooped and
flattened suddenly below the
nose as the Blade juddered
again its warning of 12 tons of
dead metal. Mark held the
stick hard back against his
stomach, lips moving. She hit
on her main wheels with a
bone-jarring rattle and a
scream of tortured rubber. He
thrust forward and the nose
came down as he cracked the
tail parachute.
“Gawd!” said the corporal,
leaning weakly against the
glass as he watched the strong
white silk blossom, checking
the plane’s headlong dash down
the runway.
The controller wiped his
neck with a handkerchief and
said into the microphone “Red
section orbit . . . await landing-
instructions.”
Lassiter had already reached
his Jeep and was racing around
the perimeter track, weaving
through the covey of vehicles
that converged on the still
plane.
TV/Tark was standing in the
shadow of the wings rub-
bing his neck reflectively.
“You know, Lass.,” he said
with a shaky grin, “I’m get-
ting too old for that sort of
thing.”
Lassiter mopped his face.
“Me, too,” he said. “Radar
plotted you at two-hundred-
thousand feet at the top of that
climb.”
“I reckon,” said Mark,
“that’s the peakM’ve been look-
ing for. Can you get me a
seat on tonight’s DC3 for
Sydney?”
Lassiter beamed. “I’ll miss
you,” he said. “Give Sue my
love.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Pioneer Doctors
Sydney’s Medical - Dental
Building, Ltd., having resolved
to name a big new building in
Macquarie Street the “William
Bland Centre,” some critics
have pointed out that Bland
was transported through being
“convicted of murder,” later
wrote a libellous verse about
Governor Macquarie and, any-
how, was not Australia’s first
private doctor.
“Murder” is surely too harsh
a term to apply to a man who,
in the free-and-easy year 1813,
killed a man in a duel he
couldn’t avoid, and in which,
of course, he took the risk of
losing his own life. And at
this date the matter of the
argument with Macquarie is of
no moment in assessing Bland’s
medical services.
As to precedence, Bland cer-
tainly was the first full-time
private practitioner in Aus-
tralia. A Sydney “Herald”
writer is wrong in claiming that
historian A. J. Gray has proved
that “Dr. John Irving was our
first Australian G.P.” What
Gray established was that
Irving was the first emancipist,
'not the first doctor.
Irving, however, deserves
well of Australia. A convict
with the First Fleet (carrying
a seven-years’ sentence for
larceny), he was found to have
been “bred to surgery” and so
was given a job as assistant
to the surgeons during the
voyage and again in the
hospital established at Sydney
Cove. In that capacity he
proved to be “a very useful
man,” and so, two years after
the arrival, Governor Phillip
issued an emancipation order
and sent him off to do medical
work at Norfolk Island.
Two years later again,
Irving returned to Australia
and became assistant to
Thomas Arndell, the Govern-
ment surgeon at Parramatta.
Up to this stage the medical
emancipist hadn't gained any-
thing more than his keep, but
now (Feb., 1792) both he and
Arndell were given land-
grants —Irving 30 acres, Arn-
dell 60 —and then the two men
fluctuated between doctoring
and farming.
Apparently Arndell became
attached to the good earth, for
in 1793 he sought and gained
permission to retire (inci-
dentally getting a pension of
£5O a year), and, as a result,
Irving's medical duties in-
creased quite considerably.
The Governor, meanwhile,
had been trying to get his ex-
convict surgeon a salary, and
eventually—four years after the
recommendation was made —
the London authorities came
good with £5O a year. But
Irving had died two days
before the news reached the
settlement —on September 3,
1795.
Thus, although John Irving
was not a private practitioner,
and although he didn’t last
nearly as long as Bill Bland
(nor as long as that other
convict surgeon Bill Redfern,
subject of the first medical
diploma to be issued in Aus-
tralia), he certainly merits a
place of honor in Australian
medical records for the work
he did in Sydney, Norfolk
Island and Parramatta.
If, however, modern doctors
ever get round to honoring
Irving, I can’t quite imagine
them telling the world on a
memorial plaque: “He prac-
tised for nearly eight years
without payment.” Phil
Anthus (N.S.W.).
E-Day, 1960
An educational problem is
looming up for Australia. At
present we have a population
of more than 10 million, of
which one-third are under the
age of 16. We now have about
40,000 students in universities,
and by 1965 there will be about
60,000. Our present student-
load in universities is in the
ratio of one teacher to every
10 students, and there is-a very
high failure-rate in first-year
subjects. By 1960 we shall be
in a bad way as regards uni-
versity education.
At the secondary level, too,
there will be a crisis in 1960,
when approximately 20,000
new secondary-school pupils
will be unloaded into already
overcrowded and understaffed
classrooms. To meet their edu-
cational needs we require about
700 teachers more than out
ordinary annual intake. These
are not anywhere in sight on
the horizons of tertiary edu-
cation. The secondary-school
problem is, to say the least of
it, mildly disturbing ; and the
enormous increase of coaching-
college activities in all States is
a positive challenge which,
sooner or later, our educa-
tional authorities will' have to
meet.
At the primary level the posi-
tion is equally unsatisfactory
We have about H-million
children in State primary-
schools and about half-a-
million in non-State primary-
schools. These non-State
schools, at both primary and
secondary levels, are calling,
loudly now for assistance. One
trembles to think what might
happen if the non-State school-
system were to collapse and
about a million youngsters
were to be left to find their
way about in the resultant
blackboard jungle.— Sir (Q/jtfcn
Weather Forecasts
Tell “M.F.D.” (B. 20/5/''s9)
that weather-forecasts covering
six-hour periods would pro-
bably be even less accurate
than those covering 24 hours,
since conditions guiding fore-
casts often take longer than
six, but seldom more than 24,
hours to develop.
Records of readings of in-
struments and gauges at Syd-
ney's Weather Bureau are kept
hourly over the full 24-hour
period, year in, year out, in
tabulated volumes in such a
way that temperature, humidity
percentage, wind-velocity and
-direction, rainfall and other
meteorological data for any
hour of any day may be read
almost at a glance. It is on
these meticulous records —and
reports received regularly from
weather-stations such as the
R.A.A.F. and lighthouses along
the coast- -that advance fore-
casts are approximately based.
Sometimes, of course, due to
Murphy’s Law (the propen-
sity of humans to err) and the
sudden development of ab-
normal (and therefore not
anticipated) conditions, fore-
casts go haywire within an
hour or two of issue. Actually,
believe it or not, weather-fore-
casting for N.S.W. generally


Many Happy Returns
the taxing of our incomes is
necessary for the well-being of the
nation. Millions of tax returns,
lodged each year are happy
returns a happiness engendered
by knowledge of a welcome refund.
the forms we use are handled,
folded, unfolded and rehandled,
so only a paper of proven
quality can be used in the
printing. “Burnie” Bond had all
the qualities required by the
Taxation Department. The bulk
of this year’s Income Tax forms
is printed on “Burnie” Bond
all of next year’s forms will
be printed on this Australian-
made paper.
much of the fine printing and
writing paper used throughout
Australasia is produced in
Burnie, Tasmania, and Ballarat, Victoria,
by Associated Pulp & Paper Mills Limited,
and its subsidiary companies.
ASSOCIATED PULP AND PAPER MILLS LTD.
subsidiary companies
PAPERMAKERS LIMITED
BALLARAT PAPER MILLS PTY. LTD.
Mills at Burnie, Tasmania and Ballarat, Victoria’.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide.
New Zealand representatives: Robert Bryce & Co. Ltd.
•BURNIE** AND ’’BALLARAT" PRODUCTS
ARE DISTRIBUTED BY WHOLESALE PAPER MERCHANTS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
S> a. J.
KM
B
MMOnWULTn
f AUSTRALIA
INCOMI TAX
AND
SOCIAL
SIRVICIS
CONTRIBUTION
NAME IN PULL
(USE BLOCK LETTERS)
I VICTORIA
Or INCOME derived from atl leurte*
nd out of Auttralla during the twelve
the from Ist July, 1958 to Mth June,
ARY & WAGES RETURN
INCLUDINt INTEREST FROM SAVINGS RANKS AND GOVERNMENT LOANS
f ORM "A" OR FORM “ I ” IF YOU NERIVE INCOME FROM ANY OTHER SOURCE
AX AGENTS ana* Ml mb Dili Farm, bet «A»«U mb Farm “A" by Faro •• I ”
HOW TO PREPARE THIS RETURN
ADDRESS anV etKar Vrnlb raqulraV Baigw.
ALL INCOME— pa|« 1 •
DEDUCTIONS -claimed—page 2.
TAXAGLE INCOME—feet «f pag* 1
below, mlng TAX -TABLE on pat, A
c
MUeONWEALTH
Of AUSTRALIA
INCOMI TAX
SOCIAL
smvicis
Street, Hoi
ftadnf nature of buulneae, nm
iiwM in Auttrali*. .
•m !• car Hod on
Butin
STATEMENT
VICTORIA
TURN OF INCOME derived from mil source*
in and out of Australia during the twelve I
f months from Ist July, 1958 to 30th June. I
PERSONAL RETUR
omrr 1 •* R Smn*rm« or Pr»fa»lee, and Truft Ertataa and Parlacrehlpe, mutt oer
roturn should bo lodged with the Deputy Commissioner
434 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. C.l, by 31st July, I9S
i (ether than salery. wage*. or dividend!) «u derived In more chan e-
return with the Deputy Commiaaloner of Taxation, f.O. Sox 74V O
H member of the Defence Force. sand this return to the Deputy Commistl.
W m the Capital City of the St we In which you enlisted or ware called t
RETURN OF INCOME d.
in and out of Austra
Ist July,
fully M>
Id be used
nd F
be lodged
436 Lonsdale Street. MeTbou
Surrwm*
1959
COMPAN
RETURN OF INCOME d*rl\
in and out of Australit
month* frg^klu'r.
over the past 15 years or so has
been considered around 75 per
cent, correct; occasionally in-
geniously so.
Incidentally, Australians are
regarded abroad as the most
weather-conscious race on
earth. Visiting Europeans and
Americans reckon we discuss
it with a thoroughness un-
known elsewhere—in fact, to
the point of boredom.—
P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Education on T.P.
The U.S. Congress has made
available to students at uni-
versities and colleges finance
to the extent of $6 million.
From this fund a student can
borrow up to $5OOO over four
years at low interest to be
repaid in instalments over 10
years after graduation. School
authorities have to put up one
dollar for each one available.
At present over 100 schools in
the U.S. are taking advantage
of the scheme.
Australian hire - purchase
companies might well adopt
such a plan, and thus increase
their own profits by establish-
ing more people more securely
in the community.—Hi Fi IQ.).
Yankus and Democracy
Commenting on the decision
of American poultryfarmer
Stanley Yankus to settle in
Australia because the U.S.
authorities wouldn’t let him
grow enough wheat to feed his
fowls from his own land, an
Australian political columnist
declared: “America is regarded
as one of the last bastions of
democracy. It’s fundamental
to democracy that majority
rule must prevail. Mr. Stanley
Yankus apparently doesn’t
believe in majority rule when
it doesn’t suit him.”
This argument showed
ignorance of the traditional
American idea of democracy,
in which Yankus is no doubt a
firm believer. This idea isn't
based on faith in the absolute
authority of the majority.
Rather the reverse. It puts
certain rights of the individual,
regarded as fundamental,
beyond reach of the legislature.
These rights include not only
liberty of person and freedom
of speech but secure enjoyment
of lawfully acquired property.
They are guaranteed by
special provisions in the U.S.
Constitution.
From time to time quite a
lot of social and economic
legislation has been rejected by
the Supreme Court because it
was held to conflict with those
articles in the Constitution that
protect property. For such
legislation to become legal the
Constitution has to be revised
—a complicated process.
In the words of a distinguish-
ed writer on the American
Constitution, Paul Leicester
Ford, “The federal compact
was the first deliberate attempt
and assent of a majority to
tie its own hands ; to give to
the minority guarantees of
fair and equal treatment.
This guarantee to the
minority in the federal Con-
stitution is one of the most
remarkable examples of self-
control in history, and consti-
tutes its chief claim to pre-
eminence.”
Majority rule is, anyhow, a
purely theoretical concept, it


doesn’t necessarily mean that
all measures passed by a
popularly elected legislature, or
all administrative actions of a
popularly elected executive,
will command majority sup-
port among electors.
On the contrary, it often
happens that a party which
gets a large majority at a
general election becomes
thoroughly unpopular within
a few months. Economic
regulat ons of the kind that
drove Yankus to Australia are
sometimes the work of bureau-
crats charged with administer-
ing a complicated Act and
haven’t been endorsed by the
legislature, let alone the elec-
torate. Sometimes a particu-
larly outrageous law has to be
withdrawn or modified because
of public outcry.
Even though a majority of
electors give dear support to a
particular line of policy, it
doesn’t follow that a person
who hates that policy is a bad
citizen for preferring to migrate
to a country whose political or
economic atmosphere is more
in accord with his outlook. —
Terry the Tory (N.S.W.).
International Law
The acceptance of inter-
national law (B. 15/4/’59) need
not necessarily be based on
any higher idealistic concept
than comprehension and
apprehension of the conse-
quences of anarchy.
Even in the simplest organ-
ised community—the family—
right has sometimes to be
backed by might ; in tribe or
nation, law and order are only
established when enough
people agree on what is right,
and care sufficiently about it
to get together and make and
enforce laws. (“E nou g h”
people, of course, need not be
a majority in numbers.)
If international law is to
guide the activities of men,
then those who want it must
care enough to fight for it, and
must agree on what it is to be ;
and fear may be a strong
enough incentive to bring co-
operation and success where
altruism has failed. When
people see the physical anni-
hilation of themselves as the
only probable alternative to
submission to law, they will
care enough. The common
people of the world —almost
all of them—feel that way now.
If Governments were truly
representative of their com-
munities, there would be no
risk whatsoever of atomic war
and mass suicide.
Laws, national or inter-
national, should be just. But
what is justice? And how
many want it? Within Aus-
tralia —to go no further afield
—we don’t want justice. From
company shareholders to coal-
miners, we want all we can get.
Our law-makers, because they
have might on their side, are
able to help themselves from
the public purse to benefits
which they well know we
would not grant them of our
own free will.
Absolute justice as between
citizens of a country is un-
attainable while egotism drives
our wheels and even elected
rulers abuse their power. As
between nations it simply isn’t
in sight.
However laudable many of
its activities may be, in its
main purpose of bringing
peace and justice into inter-
national relationships U.N.O.
has failed. While might domin-
ates right and justice is a
matter of opinion, the only
practical course in international
politics is for those nations
that have power and the will
to use it to agree on what laws
are desirable and enforceable,
and then to impose them on
everyone within reach. That
would leave the major intransi-
gents fenced out and minor
disruptionists fenced in. It
would not bring the ultimate
catastrophe any nearer unless
that is in any case inevitable.
It would give the free world
stability and cut the vacillation
out of Western policy, and
should lessen the probability
of foolhardy provocation to
violence.
Given time for the leaven of
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 542
Across
I—Alienates1 —Alienates the affection of greatness of an irregular
kind. (9)
6 —Stops with supporters of many wires, and uses the
mails. (5)
9—Rearing gasp of' an out-of-condition sheep which has
been running. (7)
10—Crook compromise name for a new nephew of rich
Uncle William and rich Uncle Julius? (7)
11— Rider who makes Nero sham. (8)
12 — Some jollity with Nelson drop-
ping his son in some feature of
post-Nelson shipping. (6)
14 —Insane thugs beaten up for mis-
behavior. (11)
18—Onion permit affected a sense of
coming misfortune. (11)
20— Insect listener with camouflage
for baldness. (6)
21 — Imperil an order to let there be
no more wrath! (8)
24 Tight 500 manage to know. (7)
25 Generative North America Legion
when halved. (7)
26 —Bleak and dull listener qualified
to practise medicine. (5)
27 — Rough-and-tumble drama of the
turf? (9)
Down
1 — Wyatt sharpens listening-aids. (9)
2 Diffident one of the Indies to
duck us. (8)
3 One donated the century plant. (5)
4 New Yorkers acquired Ethiopians
and others of their dark-skinned
kind. (10)
5 —The boss is agitated enough for
tears. (4)
6 Lip upset soap froth on the
little King Island Pole import-
ance between the wars. (9)
7 Silver behaves like a sneaking
stickybeak on the way up. (6)
8— Fibre manufactured by Sister
Albert. (5)
13 — Osric Green is in disguise, but
the identity is no mystery to
him. (10)
15— A rural worker with one leg
bound to a selector. (3-6)
16— A cheap get-together of followers,
as in the middle. (9)
17 — Curiously rivalling an old-time
musical instrument. (8)
19— Game birds grumble. (6)
20— Finished. (5)
22 Parisian loved a girl, a first-class
encyclopedist for children. (5)
23 A broken chin measure—ns of
cash? (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 541.


Positions Vacant
SINGAPORE POLYTECHNIC
Applications are invited for
appointments as below. Applica-
tion Forms and conditions of
appointment on receipt of letter to
Head of appropriate Department,
P.O. Box 2023, Singapore. Forms
to be returned immediately.
Salaries : Senior Lecturer,
M $ 1,800/M $50/MS 1,950 monthly.
Lecturers, MS 1,600 / M$50 / M$ 1.750
.monthly. Assistant Lecturers, Grade
III, MSI,200/M$50/M$ 1,550. Assis-
tant Lecturers, Grade II, MSI,000/
M$50/MS 1,350.
DEPARTMENT OE
COMMERCE
One Lecturer in Accounting.
Candidates must be highly qualified,
preferably- Chartered Accountants,
with substantial commercial or
public accounting experience and, if
possible, teaching experience at an
advanced level.
One Assistant Lecturer, Grade HI,
in Law subjects. Candidates must
possess recognised legal qualifica-
tions and should have had sub-
stantial experience in Law as applied
to commerce and industry. Respon-
sible teaching experience is also
desirable.
DEPARTMENT OF SCIENCE
AND TECHNOLOGY
One Assistant Lecturer, Grade III,
in Biology. 1st or 2nd class
Honours Degree, with Biology, or
Zoology as main subject and with
Botany at General Degree level.
Teaching experience, preferably to
level of H.S.C. in Biology, pr Zoo-
logy and Botany. In the first
instance, to be responsible for the
leaching of Biology to full-time and
part-time students at both Advanced
and Ordinary Levels of the General
Certificate of Education and to
undertake the organisation and
final equipping of the Biology
Laboratories.
DEPARTMENT OF
ENGINEERING
One Senior Lecturer in Electrical
Engineering. To be responsible to
the Head of the Department of
Engineering for the Laboratories,
Workshops in the Electrical Engi-
neering Section and to teach Electri-
cal Engineering subjects. Good
Engineering Degree and Corporate
Membership, of the Institution of
Electrical Engineers (or eligible for
Corporate Membership). Industrial
experience essential, preferably in
generation, transmission and
utilisation of power. Teaching
experience in a Technical College
or University essential. The Col-
lege is new but already recognised
for Joint Part I Examinations and
Ordinary Certificates. The equip-
ment is already generous and will
eventually cover full professional
requirements in all branches of
Engineering.
One Lecturer in Mechanical
Engineering. To teach Mechanical
Engineering subjects, particularly
Strength of Materials. Engineering
Degree and/or Corporate Member-
ship of the Institution of Mechani-
cal Engineers. Industrial experience
and teaching experience in a Tech-
nical College or University
essential.
One Assistant Lecturer. Grade III,
in Production Engineering, to teach
Machine Shop Technology and
Practice. A high qualification such
as a Full Technological Certificate
of the City and Guilds of London
Institute in Machine Shop Engineer-
ing or a Higher National Certificate
with Production Endorsements
essential. An Ordinary National
Certificate in addition to a City
and Guilds Qualification not essen-
tial but desirable. Industrial
experience in Machine Tool Prac-
tice essential. Teaching experience
desirable but not essential.
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING
AND -ARCHITECTURE
One Senior Lecturer in Architec-
ture to teach and assist in the
organisation of full-time and part-
time courses in Architecture and
part-time courses in Architectural
Draughtsmanship. Applicants must
possess the Diploma of a recog-
nised School of Architecture and
have had some experience in
Architectural practice or in teach-
ing. Post-graduate work in the
field of Architecture or Town
Planning would be an added
qualification.
Two Assistant Lecturers, Grade
II. in Architecture will be required
as Year Masters in the full-time
and part-time courses in Architec-
ture and to take part in the general
teaching work of the Department.
Applicants should possess a recog-
nised qualification in Architecture
and have had some experience in
Architectural practice. Teaching
experience would be an added
qualification.
One Assistant Lecturer, Grade III,
in Town Planning is required to
teach and assist in the organisation
of full-time and part-time courses
in Town Planning. Applicants
must possess the Diploma or Degree
of a school whose final examina-
tion is recognised as exempting from
the Final examination of the Town
Planning Institute. An additional
qualification in either Geography,
Economics, Architecture, Civil or
Municipal Engineering would be an
advantage.
One Assistant Lecturer. Grade III,
in Civil Engineering is required to
teach Civil Engineering subjects,
specialising in Concrete Structures.
Applicants should have a recog-
nised qualification in Civil and/or
Structural Engineering with exten-
sive practical experience in the
design and supervision of Concrete
Structures. Teaching experience
would be an added qualification.
One Assistant Lecturer, Grade II,
in Carpentry and Joinery and
general building subjects is required
to assist in teaching to a full-time
Teachers’ Handicrafts Course and
with the part-time courses in Car-
pentry or Joinery and Building.
Applicants should possess a First-
class Full Technological Certificate
of the City and Guilds of London
Institute in Carpentry and Joinery.
A Technical Teachers’ Certificate,
e.g., from Bolton or Huddersfield
Training College, would form an
added qualification.
LIBRARIAN
SINGAPORE POLYTECHNIC
Applications are invited for the
Post of Librarian. Candidates
should be either Fellows of the
Library Association or University
Graduates who are Associates of
the Library Association, or should
hold equivalent Professional Libra-
rian Qualifications. Considerable
experience in a large library, prefer-
ably in a University or Major
Technical College, is essential.
Salary Scale within the range
MSI,500-MS 1,750, with no addit-
ional allowances.
D. J. WILLIAMS,
PRINCIPAL,
SINGAPORE POLYTECHNIC.
idealism —or at least the yeast
of commonsense —to work in a
world now frightened into re-
ceptivity, something approach-
ing a common ethical code
may develop and a wider
application of justice be pos-
sible. If in the meantime we
must be moved and directed
by egotism, at least let it
be enlightened egotism. — Jas.
Macansh (Q.).
Tourism
Delegates to the last con-
ference of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce of
Australia, held in Perth, were
unanimous that the jet age will
bring increased tourist-trade
opportunities to Australia, and
that this trade could be a
major industry provided it
was developed along sound,
logical lines. And W.A.’s new
Premier Brand has included
tourism among his portfolios.
It’s a step in the right direc-
tion, but we’ll only make best
use of what we have to offer
overseas tourists if we have a
true appreciation of our
limitations.
On the credit side we’ve got
a vast range of really good
climates, with plenty of room
to move around. Space could
be one of our main attractions
to people from big cities who’ll
pay for the chance to get away
from the congestion in which
they make their money.
We have an unrivalled range
of wildflowers, of interestingly
peculiar plants and animals,
bush retreats and even desert
safaris. We can conduct trips
in comfort and safety to some
of the wildest parts of the
globe ; crocodile-shooting, big-
game fishing, or prospecting-
trips with the near-certainty of
everyone finding at least a few
specks.
We can't offer mountain
scenery to match the Himalayas
or the Canadian Rockies, and
although conceivably we could,
and probably will, provide
hotel accommodation and
other amenities equal to those
of famous tourist-resorts, we
mustn’t think of these as
primary tourist - attractions.
They’ll be appreciated, and
their presence will certainly
affect the trade ; they may even
at times appear to be main
factors, and they may well
be the principal money-
spinners ; but they’re not real
tourist-bait.
The Queensland delegate to
the A.C.C.A. conference made
the point that all great tourist
countries have their own
attractions and make the most
of them. He said we should
find our own strong points,
and any money we spend
should go to enhance the
features that make Australia
unique.
That’s sound reasoning—far
sounder than that of a writer
in a Perth daily who claimed
that a cafe on top of an 18-
story building in Perth would
attract more tourists than
W.A.’s famous wildflowers. He
evidently hasn’t seen the wheat-
belt in spring, or looked over
a flowering valley or plain in
the dry country of the eastern
goldfields. Pieter Nuyts
(W.A.).
Currency Debasement
Inflation is something with
which we’re all painfully
farhiliar. Various reasons are
adduced for it —that people are
naughty enough to want to
spend the money they earn;
that others press for too-high
wages, and so on.
I would suggest, however,
that the main blame should be
laid at the feet of Governments,
and that inflation should then
be more accurately termed
“debasement.”
In Australia in 1939 the
note-issue was £474- million.
For the current year it is
nearly £4OO million. In addi-
tion there has been an increase
in the issue of Treasury bills
and short-term Government
securities which the holder can
readily turn into money.
Much of this is due to the
Keynesian idea of injecting
more purchasing-power into
the economy and leaving all
the worry to the (it is hoped)
remote future ; and some of it
is due to attempts by politicians
to finance extravagant election-
promises.
In any event, inflation is in-
evitable with this great increase
in the issue of paper-money
without a corresponding in-
crease in production of goods
and services.
Wage-claims by unions and
others are often blamed, but it
would seem that wage-claims
spring from the efforts of
wage-earners to catch-up with
the inflation already started by
Government debasement of
currency.
For a long time debasing the
currency was regarded as quite
immoral—a kind of theft on a
big scale. Today, however,
many economic pundits seem
to see something virtuous and
beneficial about it. The
ordinary citizen, however,
would be pretty glad to see it
stop.—Fragmos (Vic.).


The castrating and
tailing of lambs with
the knife in a bad
fly season greatly en-
hances the risk of
bacterial infection.
To reduce the risk of
infection and there-
by reduce lambing
losses occasioned by
fly-strike, insist on
Elastrator Rubber
Rings for castration
and tailing.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
DIAMOND JUBILEE FLEECE-EXHIBITION
[From J. D. GILKES]
r T''HE fleece-section of Syd-
ney’s Diamond Jubilee
Sheep Show, with its record
entry (for Sydney) of over 200
exhibits and an additional 30
overseas fleeces for the Inter-
national Competition, should
have been one of the focal
points of the Show. As it was,
this fine exhibition of our
wealth in its raw state, with
international exhibits, was
allowed to take second-place
to wool-trade displays and
mannequin-parades.
The sheep and wool depart-
ment of East Sydney Technical
College had designed a 50ft.
scroll in black and white wool,
showing the words “Diamond
Jubilee Fleece Section” as the
back-setting for the exhibit;
but the uninteresting backs of
four trade-stands, placed right
in front of the display, made
it impossible for anyone to
view it at a range of more
than 6ft.
These trade-stands also
separated the showcases con-
taining entries for the inter-
national classes. Thus we lost
a wonderful opportunity of
bringing exhibits of the raw
product into harmony with
finished wool on display or
being paraded as high fashion.
Interest in the International
Competition was built-up by
the 17,000-mile flight to Aus-
tralia of the four fleeces from
the Argentine. The Australian
Wool Bureau gave a prize of
£lOOO for the best interna-
tional fleece, and the N.S.W.
Sheepbreeders’ Association one
of £250 for the best ewe or
wether fleece. Twenty-five
fleeces were • sent from South
Africa, and one came from
New Zealand, besides the four
from the Argentine—consider-
ing that this must have been a
world-record for prizemoney
for a fleece-competition, the
number of entries seemed poor.
Even more disappointing was
the fact that there was virtually
no inter-State competition.
International Champion
The world-champion fleece,
selected on commercial value
for a skirted fleece, was a 17|lb.
superfine Merino ram’s fleece
exhibited by Sir Walter Merri-
man’s Merryville Stud, Yass
(N.S.W.). Of outstanding
character, this fleece was really
true to type, with softness of
handle and color well de-
veloped.
The runner-up was also a
Merryville fleece.
The £250 prize for the best
ewe or wether fleece was won
by Bullamalita Pastoral Co., of
Goulburn (N.S.W.). South
African fleeces took certificates
for winning the best medium-
wool ewe or wether fleece
(J. J. P. De Klerk, Colesberg,
Cape Province), and the best
strong-wool ewe or wether
fleece (J. W. Sephton, Glen-
gyle, Barkley East).
The international classes
demonstrated the clear superi-
ority of the Australian climate
and environment for growing
wool.
The South African fleeces
showed a great deal of style
and character, but lacked the
magnificent color-standards of
the Australian entries. Their
length was well maintained and
in the main reasonably eveu.
They were softer to handle
than had been expected.
Climatic conditions, and the
fact that they had been stored
for some time, may have con-
tributed to their increased
color.
All the South African fleeces
seemed to come from sheep
which were heavily wrinkled,
and all carried more condition
than the Australian entries,
coupled with a black tip. This
probably goes back to the
days when South Africa im-
ported from Australia rams
which had extreme wrinkle-
development and grew fleeces
containing a lot of condition.
Fleeces from the Argentine
were interesting from the point
of view of seeing the type of
wool produced there, but with
only four entries there was no
means of telling how good they
might be in comparison with
the rest of the wool grown in
that country. All were grown
on properties between 2100 ft.
and 5500 ft. above sea-level,
owned by the Argentine
Southern Land Co., Ltd. Two
of the fleeces came from one
property which runs 70,000
sheep pure-bred from Aus-
tralian Merinos imported be-
fore the embargo.
All four Agentine fleeces
carried more dust (dark grey)
than any others in the show,
and were quite distinctive be-
cause of this. They also carried
a small quantity of vegetable-
fault —a seed quite different
from anything in Australia,
and similar to a cat's head.
Regular Classes
Competition in the regular
classes was disappointing in a
way, too, because all the large
number of exhibits came from
comparatively few" exhibitors.
The association’s catalogue
allows a range of classes to
suit every requirement, particu-
larly with the classes added
this year to take fleece carrying
2 per cent, or more of
vegetable-fault. The latter
were very poorly patronised,
in spite of the number of stud-
breeders and flock-breeders in
the area for which these extra
classes cater.
On walking straight up to
the exhibition, one got the
impression that color was
the outstanding feature of this
year’s competition ; and, indeed,
it proved on closer examination
to be well developed in all but
a few entries. Generally, length
was good and evenness within
each fleece was well maintained.
Usually density was also well
developed, although it was dis-
appointing to see how some
fleeces which had gained high


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
Sydney's Most
Distinguished Hotel
Newly modernised and decorated
throughout, The Hotel Metropole is
fast becoming Sydney’s smartest and
most fashionable hotel. Right in the
heart of the city, the Hotel
Metropole offers you the comfort
and convenience of Australia’s
largest and friendliest hotel. Over
400 rooms all with telephones and
hot and cold water (85 with private
bathroom), luxurious ultra-modern
suites, 6 magnificent entertaining
rooms, swift, efficient room service
and a really fine dining room and
cellar.
Yes, at the Hotel Metropole you’ll
receive truly wonderful hospitality
and service in the traditional
ielaxed and friendly atmosphere
that makes the Hotel Metropole
THE place to stay in Sydney.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Mast
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
placings seemed to lack this
feature.
Medium- and strong-wool
classes were the weakest in
numbers and standards. There
were also only a comparative
few exhibiting in the Corrie-
dale and Polworth sections.
The grand-champion fleece
and the reserve were both ex-
hibited by the Bullamalita
Pastoral Co., of Goulburn
(N.S.W), with the champion
ram’s fleece, exhibited by
Merryville. The grand-cham-
pion was a superfine 'fleece
grown by either a ewe or
wether, and points allocated
for both evenness and trueness
to type showed that these
qualities were better developed
in it than in the fleece which
won the International Com-
petition—though it should be
remembered that the result of
that competition was decided
on commercial value.
For trueness to type, the
grand-champion was awarded
94 points out of 10 ; for length,
6 out of 6 ; for soundness, 6
out of 6 ; for softness, 6 out of
6; color, 5|- out of 6;
character, 10 out of 10 ; density,
5-f- out of 6 ; evenness, 94 out
of 10; yield, 20 out of 20 ;
weight, 164 out of 20. This
fleece also won the champion
superfine Merino ewe or wether
unhoused-class, and was also
champion ewe or wether fleece.
Future Potential
In numbers this exhibition
has often been exceeded by
showings of up to 500 fleeces
in country centres. It has, as
this year’s display proved
beyond doubt, the potential
for presenting a much wider
panorama of Australia’s wool
—even a panorama of the
world’s raw wool. But if it is
to gain the support of ex-
hibitors and viewers alike, then
more attention must be paid
to organisation and staging.
Many country show-societies
could well consider these
aspects, too.
More organisation is needed
for separating classes. Now
they seem to run into one
another, and without a cata-
logue it’s difficult to appre-
ciate the finer points and,
after all, that’s what shows
are for. Tn the International
Competition entries would
have been more interesting had
weight and value per pound
been added to each fleece,
with some details of its origin
added.
The Olive and
Other Trees
“Geekay”: Suggestions for
-planting olives around Kal-
goorlie and Boulder in the
eastern goldfields of W.A.
make “Myall’s” information'
(B. 22/4/’59) well-timed and
useful. “Pieter Nuyts’s” item
in the same issue introduces a
wider outlook. If other useful
trees of different kinds could
be planted in conjunction with
the olive and grown for shade
or breakwinds in the agricul-
tural districts of Westralia
they would be a great asset.
The poplar grows excellently
at Kalgoorlie and might do
equally well in the Westralian
wheat-areas, where contract-
clearing in past years has left
great stretches of country
almost treeless.
Kalgoorlie and Boulder are
tree-minded; thousands of
eucalypts line the streets, and
jacarandas, Cape-lilacs and
tamarisks have been planted
on private properties, as well
as round the mines, where once
there was nothing but untidy
scrap and rubbish. It’s in the
agricultural areas that the
wisdom of tree-planting must
eventually be learnt—and the
sooner the better.
Sydney Sheep Show
A triumph of organisation
by G. B. S. Falkiner, president
of the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Association, the Diamond
Jubilee Sheep Show was held
in Sydney from May 27-30.
Top honors in the open
Merino classes went to the
Merryville Stud (Yass, N.S.W.),
which gained awards for grand-
champion ram and ewe, and
also once more won the Stone-
haven Cup for the best team
of three rams and two ewes.
Haddon Rig (Warren,
N.S.W.), competing for the
first time since 1923 —first time,
too, under the name of G. B. S.
Falkiner—took the reserve
grand-champion ram and won
the strong-wool ram champion-
ship, with Bundemar (estate of
F. E. Body, Trangie, N.S.W.)
taking the. reserve prize.
Merryville also exhibited
both champion and reserve
ram in the Poll Merino fine-
wool section, with A. H.
Kirkby, of Belahna, Moree
(N.S.W.), taking the medium-
and strong-wool classes. '
A. Day and Son’s Echo Stud,
Coolalie, Yass (N.S.W.), was
most successful exhibitor
among the small graziers,
taking all ram and ewe awards,
except in the strong-wool class,
in which R. J. Bell and Son,
of Corona, Gilgandra (N.S.W.;,
had top ram and M. D. Tom-
linson, of Woodlands, Curra-
bubula (N.S.W.), took the
reserve award. D. B. Milthorpe,
of Somerset, Jerilderie
(N.S.W.), exhibited the strong-
wool ewe, and the reserve went
to N. McDonald, of Coona-
barabran (N.S.W.). C. K.
Gorham, of Sunbury, Boo-
roowa (N.S.W.), also did well
in a section in which entries
were of improved standard.
In the Corriedale section,
R. E. Wettenhall, of Stanbury
Sflid Farm, Ceres (Vic.), ex-
hibited both champion and
reserve-champion ewes and the
reserve-champion ram. Cham-
pion ram was shown by M.
Carroll and Sons, Pty., Ltd., of
Redbank, Molong (N.S.W.).
A. E. Coote’s Manbetta Stud,
Manilla (N.S.W.), had the
champion Polwarth ram and
ewe', and H. J. McDonald, of
Glenwood, Dubbo (N.S.W.),
took the reserve ribbons for
ram and ewe.
Entries in all British Breed
sections were exceptionally
heavy this year, and the display
was most impressive. The Poll
Dorset champion ram was ex-
hibited by W. J. Dawkins, of
Newbold, Ltd., Gawler River
(S.A.), and champion ewe was
shown by A. Taylor, of Linds-
bury, Cudal (N.S.W.). New-
bold also had the champion
ram in the Dorset Horn sec-
tion, though, for the seventh
time in eight years, A. Taylor
(who brought a team of 23 to
the Show) was the most suc-
cessful competitor in this sec-
tion, exhibiting champion ewe
and reserve-champion ram,
as well as winning the W. J.
Dawkins trophy (for the best
ram under 14 year, machine-
shorn within 21 days of the
judging) and the special group-
prize.
Dicky Rice-weevil
“Dune”: Don’t know where
the rice-weevil acquired this
nickname, but it’s a real pest
in any language, especially
around the central coast of
N.S.W. Citrus-trees used to be
its favorite, but nowadays there
are few garden-shrubs or
creepers which don’t seem to
be included in its diet, and
passionfruit - growers have
started passing nasty remarks
about its depredations.
Mainly nocturnal in habit, it
hides under leaves or in bark-
crevices during the daytime.
The larvae live underground,
getting nourishment from the
roots of the tree on which the
adult weevil will eventually
live. The adult is dark-slate
in color and has hard hide
like a beetle, with a pair of
tough wings which apparently
are not used for flying, since
it depends on its legs for loco-
motion. The head is short
and blunt, tapering to a trunk-
like proboscis.
When the weevil was gener-
ally only a citrus-pest, it could
be controlled by painting a ring
of sticky solution round the
base of the tree-trunk, although
this only prevented the pest
from climbing into the tree
itself. Now it is more com-
monly controlled by spraying
the base of the tree —and the
foliage, too, if infected —with
a weak solution of D.D.T.-
emulsion. If the weevil were
only a leaf-eating pest, it
wouldn’t be such a nuisance ;
but it eats into the skin of
young citrus-fruit, making
small furrows which, as the
fruit ripens, become dark
markings and spoil its market
value.
Storing Onions
“Big Billy”: Onions, well-
ripened and properly cured,
are best stored where it’s dry


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year— £2 Bs.; \ year— £l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year— £l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
and cool, with a good circula-
tion of air. There’s no danger
of their freezing in store unless
the temperature drops below
28deg. F. for long periods.
As with mosj other vege-
tables, their quality depends on
the amount of moisture in the
air. Humidity has little effect
on the sprouting of stored
onions, but low humidity—
60deg. to 65deg. —prevents the
growth of roots and checks
their spread, although it causes
a certain amount of shrivelling
and softening.
Some loss is inevitable,
owing to shrinkage, sprouting
or rooting in the conditions in
which most bulbs are stored.
The long-keeping varieties of
onions cure and seal-up well
at the neck and are hard and
firm, with thick outer scales.
These have the longest rest-
period, and don’t usually
sprout for several months, even
if stored in conditions favoring
growth.
The Campbell Town
Show
“Nairda”: The idea of the
Campbell Town Show, organ-
ised by the Midlands Agricul-
tural Association of Tasmania,
was conceived in September,
1838, when landholders of the
Tasmanian Midlands met at
Ross and agreed to form a
society “for the improvement
of stock, agriculture and
general rural economy” and to
hold an annual exhibition.
The first Show was held on
October 2, 1839, with the aim
of raising the standard of stock
and discovering suitable types
of sheep and cattle. Sir John
Franklin, then Governor of
Van Dieman’s Land, was the
original patron. Entries in-
cluded 22 horses, 21 cattle and
220 sheep (especially fine-
woolled). In the early days
there were also competitions
for the best dairymaid, length
of service of domestics and
farmhands, cheesemaking and
essays on the best way to
prevent smut and scab.
This year’s Show—the 121st
consecutive exhibition—is due
this month. Entries include 79
horses (Olympic jumpers and
hunters), 28 cattle and 585
sheep.
Eelworm
“Spin”: I can’t accept
“Malua’s” contention (B.
29/4/’59) that eelworm
flourishes only in poor soil.
I’ve had it in heavy loam, with
a clay subsoil, which yearly
received heavy applications of
fowl-manure, super., ammonia
and potash.
I’d say this land was some
of the richest in W.A. ; it
yielded crops of prime cauli-
flower and lettuce before the
eelworm got into it. Then
there were big patches (which
spread) in which plants died
or grew poorly.
We tried ploughing dry,
turning the sod up in huge
lumps, which we left to dry-
out ; but although there was
some improvement it wasn’t
enough to warrant the extra
work and idle ground.
That may have been because
the eelworm went deeper than
we could plough, and managed
to survive on the little mois-
ture left in the subsoil. A
dressing of lime at 30 tons to
the acre reduced the damage,
but it would have cost too
much to continue until we had
got rid of the pest completely.
We turned the patch over to
grasses which that particular
eelworm didn’t attack.
Beating the Back-
yarder
“Pieter Nuyts”: From the
way orders are coming in,
hatcheries in Westralia look
like having a prosperous year ;
but, however good this may be
for breeders and hatcherymen,
it's bad news for commercial
poultry-farmers in general.
In spite of the signs of pros-
perity in the industry, this isn’t
the time for any great expan-
sion among egg-producers.
Prices may be up a little, but
too many eggs are still being
produced in Australia.
It sounds paradoxical, but
the high price of eggs is caused
by this excess of eggs, many
of which have to be exported
at a loss. Local prices must be
maintained to make-up the
difference and, as a result, the
home-market is reduced still
further. Egg-boards are getting
the present price from con-
sumers who have to buy eggs.
To a large extent the increased
sale from hatcheries is merely
another general reaction to this
fact; it’s composed largely of
chickens bought by house-
holders.
Backyard-hens produce
nearly 50 per cent, of Aus-
tralia’s total number of eggs.
Whether or not many house-
holders market their surplus
eggs in other ways than
through the boards isn’t the
point at issue, although large
numbers of eggs are evidently
being sold without the pro-
ducers making any contribution
to the stabilisation-funds.
What’s more to the point is
that so many potential cus-
tomers are producing eggs,
often at great inconvenience
and at greater cost than the
retail-price, because they be-
lieve the backyard-produced
egg is superior to the commer-
cial product.
It’s certainly more attractive.
Nine times out of ten it has a
richer color, and usually
it’s free from bloodspots.
There’s a reason for both:
the householder usually has
enough green scraps from the
kitchen to keep the color up,
and he —or, more usually she
—knows the eggs of each
individual hen in the flock, and
if one is addicted to bloodspots
it’s promptly liquidated. There
Shouldn’t be bloodspots in
eggs marketed through the
board ; but occasionally one
slips past the candler, and then
there’s another householder
knocking-up a fowlhouse so
that his wife can have eggs “fit
to eat.”
In W.A., where some
poultry-farmers are given per-
mits to sell eggs direct to the
public and to certain retailers,
there’s a bigger chance of a
customer buying below-stand-
ard eggs, when the producer
doesn’t candle them —and some
don’t. The permittee-stamp
differs from that of the board,
but that doesn’t register with
the average customer: they’re
all stamped eggs to her, and
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(28/5/’s9>
In most of Queensland rainfall may vary from light to
moderate during June, although good falls are indicated on
the south coast. Good rains are indicated in the southern
half of the State during July
N.S.W. may expect light to moderate rains during
June and good rains in July, with best falls 'on the northern
coast areas. Well-distributed rains should continue for the
rest of the year.
In Victoria moderate general rains are indicated during
June, although rainfall may be poor in July, which is likely
to be cold, with widespread frosts. Heavier rains should
come in August.
The agricultural areas of South Australia should
receive reasonably good rains in June, although elsewhere
rainfall may be light. Light to moderate rain should fall
in July, and good rains may be expected in the agricultural
areas during August.
In Western Australia rainfall may be below normal in
the agricultural areas during the winter and is likely to be
poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


■ ■ ■
It’s got the lot
It's a Tilley)
Therp’s only one kind of portable kerosene heater worth having—the
best! And that’s the Tilley. It’s warmer, cleaner, safer ... and it burns
for 12 hours on only 1£ pints of kerosene. The Tilley Portable Pressure-
Kerosene Heater is a first-class engineering product. . . and 100 %
British Made.
£8.8.0
(freight extra outside
metropolitan area)
r
h
REGD.
TRUST TILLEY
for lighting and heating
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to: —
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essenden, Victoria.
one bad or unattractive stamp-
ed egg brands the entire system.
The problem facing the
poultry-industry today is to
reduce the percentage of eggs
produced by householders. This
won’t be done by proving there’s
no financial gain in backyard-
poultry. The average house-
holder knows already that by
the time he has paid for feed
and taken account of deaths
and the off-lay period, he’s out
of pocket; but he keeps on
because he likes eggs and finds
the commercial product un-
appetising. You might get
somewhere by proving—as you
could easily enough that
backyard flocks are largely
responsible for the swarms of
houseflies that exist practically
all the year, but Health Acts
are too elastic to permit
effective action in this regard.
Poultry-farmers will have to
face the fact. The only way
they’ll reduce backyard com-
petition is by making their eggs
as attractive as the home-
grown product. That means a
combined effort by every pro-
ducer in the game. Every per-
son w'ho sells an egg through
the board or by permit must
feed plenty of greenstuff,
market clean, unwashed eggs,
collect them at least three times
a day, market them frequently
and store them where the
temperature doesn’t exceed 60
deg.
Another important point
—all eggs marketed must be in-
fertile. An infertile egg which
lies too long in a retailer’s shop
becomes stale and unattractive;
a fertile egg in the same
circumstances becomes nauseat-
ing and repulsive.
When every producer is
working towards the object of
marketing the most attractive
egg possible, householders who
are now producing half Aus-
tralia’s eggs at high cost to
themselves will pull-down
their fowlhouses and save
money by buying from the
boards and there’ll be no
need to seek unprofitable ex-
port-markets. Then, and not
till then, the commercial egg-
producer who wants to can
increase his flocks.
Turnips
“Big Billy”: Experience
with turnips and brassica in
Victoria during last summer’s
severe heatwave suggests that
it’s best to plant these crops in
September or early October.
Then at least half the crop
should be ready before the
hottest period comes along.
Dark-purple or reddish-
topped turnips suffered most,
so a white-skinned variety is
recommended as more suitable.
No crop can be brought
to maximum yield in late
summer without irrigation ; but
some crops managed to survive
the heat, and picked-up again
in the autumn, because the
soil was initially moist and
plants were small and not
crowded. Subsequent rains
boosted these crops and provid-
ed succulent feed at a time
when normally fodder is
scarce. So it seems best to
plant after rain, when there’s
good moisture-content in the
soil. Seed at no more than
ilb. to 11b. an acre.
Farm Costs
“Katie”: Though “Ruddi-
gore” (B. 20/5/’59) must have
received (from the article on
breeding and feeding published
in the same issue) answers to
most of his questions, I
should like to comment on one
other of them.
The thing to do with con-
served fodder during a drought
is feed it to your stock. The
purpose of conserving fodder
is to insure against stock-
losses and lowered production
during bad seasons. It com-
mands high prices during
droughts because farmers who
haven’t provided for a drought
need the stuff to feed to their
stock. So if cows are put into
“the old lucerne-paddock,” and
conserved fodder is sold, there
may not be enough cows left
at the end of the drought to
get your money “back through
the milk-bucket.”
The cost of replacing a
dairy-herd, or a substantial
part of it, would soon knock
the cream off the profits
realised from the sale of
fodder. It is only reasonable
to expect the price of livestock
to soar after a drought, so it
may be . impossible to obtain
replacement-stock that will
equal the production of those
left to die. Buying replace-
ments also increases the risk
of introducing diseases like
brucellosis and vibriosis into
the herd and so causing further
losses in production.
However, let’s assume that
the fodder is sold at a good
profit and the cows all survive
the drought. If the drought
lasts any time and the fodder
is sold, the farmer must be
content to forget about the
profit he would have made
from his cows if he had kept
the fodder and used it to feed
his herd. This means that he
is satisfied that the profit from
the fodder is greater than
he would make from dairy-
produce during the drought,
and that after the drought his
cows will quickly return to full
production. So he makes a
killing on his fodder and hopes
to be at least as prosperous
after the drought as he was
before it.
It appears that “Ruddi-
gore’s” friends can do better.
They say they can get the
profit from the fodder and
also get their money back
through the bucket. Appar-'
ently they mean the money
the cows would have'made if
they had been fed. To do
this would mean that the cows
would have to produce twice
as much after the drought as
they did before it. If this is
possible, then it’s the first time
I’ve heard of anyone actually
having his cake and eating it.
Farm Hints
“C.A.A.”: Broad-beans can
be sown now in districts with
a temperate winter climate.
This species transplants readily
when young—a point worth
remembering when filling-up
rows where seed hasn’t struck.
Germination can be speeded
by soaking the seed for 12
hours before sowing. Another
sowing can be made in early
spring to ensure maturity
before the heat of summer.
“Billjim”: Spraying spuds
with arsenical compounds to
control weeds is dangerous to
stock. Arsenite attracts cows,
which sometimes crash
through fences to get at
sprayed paddocks. Provided a
good mould has been put over
the tubers, grazing with lambs
is just as good as arsenic, and
there’s no danger of poisoning.
“Big Billy”: Nitrogenous fer-
tilisers tone-up pastures which
are in good heart and contain
perennial rye, short-rotation
rye or other winter-growing
grasses. Applied now, nitrogen
will ensure extra growth in
mid-winter. A recommended
dressing is lcwt. sulphate-of-
ammonia or its equivalent in
other forms of quick-acting,
nitrogenous fertilisers.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
o’sut^ltvam
: FTYLTD v
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN BROWN late of Murnbil.—
TAKE NOTICE that VIOLET
MERLENE BROWN has filed Petition
No. 1139 of 1959 for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
I f you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 14tli August 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DO UGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GLORIA MEUNIER late of Mexico
City.—TAKE NOTICE that JOHN
ANTHONY MEUNIER has filed Petition
No. 701 of 1959 for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend 'you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 23rd October 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
TO MICHAEL PETER NOLAN form-
erly of Meredith in the State of Vic-
toria Shearer.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife CONSTANCE IVY NOLAN
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the grounds of
desertion by you for a continuous period
of three years or more If you desire
to defend such proceedings or to counter-
claim you must file your defence in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court at
Perth within forty clear days from the
date of this publication IN default of
your so doing the action may proceed
and the Court will pronounce judgment
and make orders against you in your
absence. DATED this 15th day of May,
1959. —G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
LA VAN & WALSH, 23 Barrack Street,
Perth, W.A., Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANKLIN OWEN WATTS late of
Queenscliffe.—TAKE NOTICE that IRIS
NELLIE WATTS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1515 of 1959 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by 17th August
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from BLAKE & RING,
Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
The Barbary Coast, by Herbert
Asbury.—6B34.
Bedridden patient who collects
all kinds of postage-stamps would
like to hear from Australian stamp-
collectors. He is particularly
anxious to extend his collection of
Australian stamps. Write to Rev.
Robert Brown, P.O. Box 721,
Reading, Pa., U.S.A.
Information Supplied
Further to the “Service Page”
inquiry (“How to make a good
whitewash?”) in B. 3/6/’59: the
water should be put in the container
first, and the lime added a lump
at a time. Extra water, if needed,
may be added periodically.
• • * *
(From “CtB.M.”): Both plans
mentioned in the “Service Depart-
ment” (B. 20/5/’59) are effective
ways of protecting wheat-stacks
from mice. The best of all —
particularly on the farm specialising
in bagged production of seed-wheat,
seed-barley and oats or grain for
feed .purposes—is the raised barn.
This should be built on concrete
or heavy wooden Mocks capped
with wide galvanised-iron sheets,
and should be lorry-height to enable
easy bag-handling in and out. Never
allow such innocent things as a
stick, piece of string, bag, etc., to
hang down to the ground: being
crafty, the mice will probably find
their way up and into the barn.
To get into the barn, use a door
without steps up to it. The small
inconvenience of climbing up is
worth while, since the set-up is a
deterrent to pests and is a sure
protection for wheat-stacks against
adverse weather.
Initial cost is rather heavy, but
in the long run this method will
pay-off, as well as providing a
permanent asset.
Information Sought
(1) How to prepare chocolate-
and sugar-coated peanuts ? (2)
Names of some firms who make
coated-peanuts and who would be
willing to sell in bulk lots ?
(1) Chocolate-coating is prepared
with confectioners’ chocolate, and,
with sugar added, should be melted
over heat very gently, nuts or other
fillings being placed in it and
strained out to dry on greaseproof-
paper. Sugar-coating is done in
the same way, using a concentrated
sugar syrup. Buy a book on the
making of sweets. Clean, shallow
saucepans, shallow dishes such as
used in the oven, a sugar-thermo-
meter, scales and plenty of waxed-
paper is the standard gear for a
beginning. (2) Write to the secre-
tary, Queensland Chamber of
Commerce, Brisbane. An alterna-
tive is to advertise in one of the
city papers, or ask in your district
for the name of a reliable commer-
cial traveller in confectionery.
* * * •
How to tan possum-skins ?
Skins should be fresh and clean,
having .been washed and partly
dried, and all loose ends and pieces
of fat scraped off. Dissolve 12oz.
alum and Boz. salt in half a gallon
of boiling water. Mix Jjlb. flour
to a paste in a little water, cool the
alum-and-salt mixture, add the
flour-paste and make-up the whole
with water to lgal. Give the skins
a liberal coating of the mixture on
the flesh side, fold over and leave
until next day. Repeat the applica-
tion for three or four days, then
dry-out. The addition of \ pint
neatsfoot-oil makes the skins softer,
but this oil can be rubbed in after
the skins have dried, at which stage
they should be pulled about to
make them pliable. Trim-up the
edges, crush and comb'the fur and
shake well.
* * * •
How are votes counted in a
Parliamentary election ?
In the preferential-voting system
the No. 1 votes cast for each candi-
date are first counted. If any
candidate then has an absolute
majority over all other candidates
he is declared elected, and there is
no need to examine the ballot-
papers any further. If no candidate
has an absolute majority, then the
candidate with the lowest number
of primary (No. 1) votes is excluded.
His ballot-papers are then examined
end distributed among the other
candidates according to the second-
preferences shown on them. If
there is still no candidate with an
absolute majority, then, the candi-
date with the next lowest total is
excluded and his second-preferences
distributed, and so on until an
absolute majority is obtained.
• * * *
Casualties suffered by the main
participating countries in World
War I ?
Here are the figures given in the
Encyclopcedia Britannica. Killed
and died (includes deaths from all
causes): Russia, 1,700,000; France,
1,357,000 British Empire,
908,371 ; Italy, 650,000; U.S.,
126,000; Rumania, 335,706;
Serbia, 45,000; Belgium, 13,716;
Greece, 5000; Portugal, 7222;
Montenegro, 3000. Central Powers,
killed and died: Germany,
1,773,000; A u s t r o-H u n gar y,
1,200,000; Turkey, 325,000; Bul-
garia, 87,500.
Total casualties (including “killed
and died,” “wound casualties” and
“prisoners and missing”): Russia,
9,150,000; France, 6,160,800;
British Empire, 3,190,235; Italy,
2,197,000; U.S., 350,000; Rumania,
535,706; Serbia, 331,106. Central
Powers Germany, 7,142,558;
Austro-Hungary, 7,020,000; Turkey,
975,000; Bulgaria, 266,919. The
Encyc. Brit, says these are the
“military casualties in World War I,
as estimated by the U.S. War
Department,” but only the British
and French figures are designated
“official.”-
* * * •
How to tan rabbit-skins ?
Skins should be fresh and pliant;
if hard and dry, soak in cold water
until they can be worked easily.
Remove unwanted rough edges and
shake-out. Dissolve 12oz. alum and
Boz. salt in igal. boiling water and
let stand. 'Mix Boz. flour with
water to a paste; mix with first
solution when cool, then add
enough water to make lgal. Put a
generous coating of the mixture on
the skins (bare sides), fold over,
repeat daily for three or four days
and then dry them —not in the sun.
If you add \ pint neatsfoot-oil to
the tan-mixture the skins will
become pliable and easy to work.
When dry, rub the skins to soften
them; scrub lightly with a piece of
pumice, brush and comb the fur
and shake well.
* * * *
When did G. A. Robinson, “the
Conciliator,” leave Australia to
return to England ? Brief particu-
lars of Robinson’s life ?
George Augustus Robinson
(1788-1866) migrated to Tasmania
in 1824 and worked in Hobart as
bricklayer and builder. A Metho-
dist, he became interested in the
welfare of the aborigines, and in
1829 was appointed to take charge
of aborigines on Bruny Island. His
mission there was not altogether
a success; there was a lot of
trouble with whalers and sealers.
In 1830, the “Black War” having
failed to round-up the tribes in
Tasmania, Robinson suggested that
he should go unarmed among them,
and try to conciliate them. He
won their confidence, and in 1832
iecommended to the authorities
that Flinders Island be set apart
as a home for aborigines. He
brought in most of the aborigines,
who were placed on Flinders. In
1838 Robinson was appointed Chief
Protector of Aborigines on the main-
land of Australia, and moved to
Port Phillip in 1839, but although
he was well-meaning he did not
succeed as an administrator; in
1842 Governor Gipps reported
adversely on his work. In Decem-
ber, 1849, Robinson’s office was
abolished, and in 1853 he returned
to England, where he died in
October, 1866.
* * * *
Biographical details of pastoralist
E. H. Lascelles ?
Known as the “Mallee King,”
Lascelles was born at Bothwell
(Tas.) on October 3, 1847, and was
educated at Geelong (Vic.). On
leaving school he entered a wool-
broking firm, became one of its
partners in 1868 and later its sole
owner. He was best known as a
pioneer of the Mallee in Victoria;
settlement of that area was largely
due to his enterprise, courage and
perseverance. In 1878 he bought
Lake Corrong sheep-station in the
heart of the Mallee, and after a
visit to S.A., where he saw what
could be done with similar country,
he cleared his property of scrub
and devoted it to agriculture, par-
ticularly wheat-growing. His finan-
cial interest in other holdings
allowed him to widen his field of
work, and altogether he was respon-
sible for the reclamation of about
300,000 acres of mallee-land . The
town of Hopetoun was established


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
F I R E M A R INE ACCIDENT
■ AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in nil States Agencies in all Country Centres
by Lascelles, and another settlement
in the area bears his name. In con-
junction with Andrew Anderson he
designed the first rabbit-poisoning
machine in Australia. He was
chairman of the Geelong Wool-
brokers’ Association and one of
the first commissioners of the Gee-
long Harbour Trust. He died at
Geelong,on February 12, 1917.
* * * *
(1) What H’<w “Roif Boldre-
wood’s” real name? (2) Birthplace
and date of birth, also date and
place of death ? (3) Brief informa-
tion about hint, outside his writing ?
(1) “Rolf Boldrewood” was the
pseudonym of Thomas Alexander
Browne, son of Captain Sylvester
John Browne, an officer of the
East India Company. (2) He was
born in London on August 6, 1826;
his parents brought him to Aus-
tralia in 1831. He died in Mel-
bourne on March 11, 1915. (3) In
1844 he took-up land near Port
Fairy (Vic.), and, after visiting
England in 1860, acquired property
in the Riverina (N.S.W.) in 1864.
In 1871 he became a police-magis-
trate and goldfields commissioner at
Gulgong (N.S.W.), holding these
positions and similar ones at Dubbo,
Armidale and Albury until he
retired in 1895. In the 1860’s he
began to contribute articles and
serial-stories to Australian weeklies.
Robbery. Under Arms was first
printed as a serial in the “Sydney
Mail” in 1881, and first published
in book-form in 1888. In 1861
he married Margaret Riley, who
survived him, as did their two sons
and five daughters. Mrs. Browne
wrote The Flower Garden in
Australia (1893).
Brief Answers
E.W.P.: (1) The fortnightly
“Observer” was first published on
February 22, 1958. It is published
in Sydney by Australian Consoli-
dated Press. (2) The same Eric
Baume... .Mrs. P.: You can re-
cover the price of the third man
from either the second or the first
man, provided (n) the first and
second men worked less than six
years ago, and (£>) you can prove
that they did it negligently or
unskilfully. Your first payment is
the smallest amount the contractor
will take; discuss it with him....
K.D.: One of their number takes-
over administration. After paying
all necessary death-duties and the
debts of their parents they divide
the estate between them.... A.N.:
He was convicted on September 11,
1923, on a charge of manslaughter,
and was sentenced to three years’
hard labor K.G.: A patch may be
stuck on with tar, pitch or tyre-
solution; but there’s nothing better
than stitching a patch with a wide
lap, the two surfaces and the stitch-
ing being well waxed with hot,
melted beeswax to keep out mois-
ture... .H.M.: E. C. Booth's
Australia Illustrated was first pub-
lished in 1874. The engravings are
of no special value... .P.M.L.: The
Alexandria Downs cattle-station
(N TANARUS.) has an area of 11,000 square-
miles and carries approximately
75,000 head of cattle. In area it is
the largest cattle-station in the
world. When fully stocked, King
Ranch, in the U.S.A., carries
80,000 head of cattle; Alexandria
Downs and King Ranch would vie
for supremacy in cattle-numbers
from season to season. King
Ranch, however, is made-up of
four separate properties, whereas
Alexandria Downs is one property.
Victoria River Downs has been
reduced in size and is now approxi-
mately 6500 square-miles, carrying
about 70,000 head of cattle. Wave
Hill station is somewhat less than
6000 square-miles... .H.F.: Emul-
sifier CM496 is marketed by Chemi-
cal Materials, Ltd., Federal Road,
Glebe; price per lb. varies with
quantities ordered —algal. tin costs
455., 4gals. 1205., sgals. 1505., and
a 44gal. drum £55. C.M.U. may
be applied at rates ranging from
£lb. to 1001 b. per acre, depending
on the' purpose for which it is
required. In general, as far as soil-
sterilisation is concerned, there are
cheaper and equally satisfactory
substitutes, such as borates and
chlorates. C.M.U. is useful in
controlling weed-growth along
irrigation-channels.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“You know, I’ve never noticed before what beautiful eyes you have. "
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No. liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submiited; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
G.W.: Possibilities in both
“Finches” and “Telephone.” You
have ideas, but need a more
rounded technique... .S.T.: The
tree’s too bare... .L.M.: Is there
“a faint spark of promise?” Yes,
if you are very young or you are
writing for children... .T.G.8.:
Verses all lightweights.... M.E.8.:
“Space Race” crashed.... D.M.:
“The Athlete” nearly jumped in
P.J.: There is a germ of an idea,
but it’s lost in the tangled under-
growth of your verbiage... .8.V.:
Try to write about the people and
scenes with which you are familiar.
M.N.: It’s more than obvious you
don’t like garbage-collectors....
A.G.A.: Sent that wild doggerel
howling from the d00r... .G.S;:
Get married M.H.: There might
be a short-story in that tragic game
of euchre. The verse is a bit too
elementary G.C.: It’s a nice old
house, but it’s on the market every
week... .8.M.: Some good lines
among too much sentimentality
1.W.: Another old house....
R.C.R.: An amusing football
ballad; but rough... .J.S.R.
(London): Too long for us to
cope with... .J.H.H.: We’re otf
droughts, but looked twice at the
mare... We’ll have to make
room for
NAGINDI!
As daylight is shrinking and stars come
out blinking Nagindi h
I dream of the time that you will be
mine Nagindi !
The call of the bush and the hunt of
the roo
Has left me completely bewildered
I see only you in the gum tree so blue
Nagindi! .
My manhood is lost to your haunting
brown eyes Nagindi!
I lay by the creek and my breath is
just sighs Nagindi !
I feel like the dingo that howls for a
mate
How long must I suffer? How long
must 1 wait ?
Let’s go on a walkabout, just .you and
me, Nagindi!
Corroborees now are a worry to me,
Nagindi !
Where men of the tribe can openly see
Nagindi!
As you smile and dance for the warriors
there
While all I can do is sit by and stare
And cry to myself, Do you really care
Nagindi!
The gunya is waiting, my lubra to be
Nagindi!
Oh! Put out this fire that’s burning in
me, Nagindi
The streams of our life will be calm
when they meet
My spears will assure that we always
will eat
By the bones of our fathers be mine, 1
entreat, Nagindi!
. ...G.T.: The plum - pudding
proved inedible H.F.D.: There
seem to be too many seagulls.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Personalities made -up much of the
interest of life in Sydney this week. There
were people of importance on every side,
and a great atmosphere of activity
generally.
* ☆ ☆
In the welcomes to Archbishop
Gough, Sydney’s new Anglican Arch-
bishop, one could not help marvelling
at his stamina, after a week of
intense activity. It’s to be hoped
that he had a chance to sink into an
armchair at his new home at Bishops-
court on the Saturday of his arrival,
when he was met by about 40 clergy,
bombarded with questions, borne off to
morning-tea at C.E.N.E.F., introduced to
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, and enthroned
there with all the impressive ritual of
that ceremony.
He has been welcomed by civic
and State authorities, appeared on TV,
and has been guest-of-honor at a recep-
tion given by the Royal Commonwealth
Society on Thursday. With his wife (who
is the daughter of Scottish peer, Lord
Kinnaird) and his daughter Lucy (look-
ing very pretty in a short dress of pea-
cock-blue delustred-satin and shoes to
match), he met the 250 guests, who in-
cluded representatives of every religious
denomination of any size in Sydney,
State Opposition leader P. H. Morton
and Mrs. Morton, the heads of the three
services, R.S.L. president W. Yeo and
Mrs. Yeo, and Director-General for
Education Dr. H. D. Wvndham and Mrs.
Wyndham. Mr. Ivan Black, president of
the society, and Lady Berryman, in black
velvet with one pink rose at the waist,
welcomed the guests.
# # V
Garden Club members had a trip to
Japan by proxy at their meeting last
week, when the president, Mrs. Arthur
Davis, described vividly her experiences
in that country during her second recent
trip there with her husband. Particularly
interesting was her report of the artistry
of Japanese gardens which make use of
fine white pebbly gravel raked into
designs and studded with stepping-stones
of carefully-chosen rock. Color was sup-
plied by iris, wistaria and azaleas, but
these were not the focal-point of the
garden. A pool, however, was part of
every fine garden, said Mrs. Davis, who
added that she and her husband are
now busily enlarging the pool at their
Cammeray home and making use of some
of Sydney’s beautiful stones in its arrange-
ment. The chairman at the club’s meeting
was Mrs. E. G. Waterhouse.
# V #
Former Sydney journalist 20-year-old
Carol Cleary will marry American
businessman Milton Prince Higgins 111
at St. Stephens on June 17, after which
the two will take-off on a seven-weeks’
honeymoon trip by air to the Continent.
Carol is the only child of Mr. and Mrs.
R. V. Cleary (Lindfield), and she met her
fiance when she was interviewing his
mother at the airport when the family*
were visiting Australia in 1957. Mr.
Higgins, snr., is president of the Norton
Company, the world’s largest manufac-
turers of abrasives, and son Milton
(“Mitty” to his friends) has been work-
ing for the past year at Behr-Manning
(Aust.), one of the firms controlled by
his father’s company.
A reception for 120 guests will be held
at the Pickwick Club, and the Leader of
the State Opposition, Mr. P. H. Morton
—a personal friend of the bride’s father
• —will be toastmaster. The young couple
will live in the U.S., first in the Higgins’
family-home,' a white colonial mansion
on a farm in Worcester (Mass.), and later
in their own home.
Rosalyn Ann Graham’s engagement to
James Stuart, of Drummoyne, will be
celebrated by a party for 100 guests
at Yarramundi, Drummoyne. Her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Graham,
of Miramar, Drummoyne, are giving her
the party, and among the guests will
be a number of her old school-friends
from the Presbyterian Ladies’ College,
Orange. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Interesting personality Lady Eve
Balfour took an hour from her intensive,
12-month tour of Australia and New
Zealand to visit The Bulletin and to
give an idea of her life-work in learning
and teaching the way to healthful living
through nutrition.
* ☆ ☆
A distinguished soil-ecologist (one who
studies the relations between living
organisms and their environment), and
author of The Living Soil, Lady
Eve has been interested in farming since
she was 12, has her diploma in agricul-
tural-science from Reading University,
and is development-director of the Soil
Association, whose members she is meet-
ing in Australasia.
.She is a niece of Earl Balfour, a former
Prime Minister of England, and a sister
of the present Earl. Among her ancestors
are the famous Cecil family and, on her
mother’s side, her great-grandfather was
that eminent man of letters Bulwer
Lytton. She herself has myriad interests,
loves yachting, horses, swimming and
classical-music, plays the flute, and once
learned the saxaphone in order to join
a jazz-band. She gives the impression
of great vitality, and says that since she
took-up the study of ecology and applied
its principles to herself (over 20 years
ago) she has needed no dental care, has
practically banished head-colds and “be-
comes annoyed” if she ever suffers from
the rheumatic pains to which she was
once subject.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Eve’s recommendations on diet
to housewives and mothers are, briefly:
(1) to eat the whole food —for example,
eat potatoes in their jackets ; (2) to eat
fresh food ; (3) cook your food as little
as possible; (4) eat food grown on
balanced, fertile soil free from poison
(grow it yourself if you can). Above all,
enjoy your food and don’t make rigid
rules about particular individuals, but
make allowances for differing tastes.
+ V V
The Independent Theatre Ball, always
colorful because of the dramatic per-
sonalities that go along to it, seemed
to have a high percentage of travel-
conscious customers among its guests
this year. The Erik Langkers had just
returned from a sojourn at Bathurst,
Harald Bowden was just about to set-off
to Brisbane and Bundaberg, and actor
Michael Pate was up from Melbourne
and had thought to be off to Munich,
but changed his mind in favor of various
productions in Australia. Miss Doris
Fitton, the theatre’s director, welcomed
the 125 guests to the ball at Prince’s, and
looked very handsome in a short white-
satin dress, pearl-embroidered and topped
with a dashing red-satin coat. The guests-
of-honor, Googie Withers and John
McCallum, came along after their show,
“Roar Like a Dove,” at the Royal.
MELBOURNE
The audience which filled the Town
Hall for the first night of the Vienna
Boys’ Choir must have agreed with Tos-
canini’s opinion that it is the best boys’
choir in the world, so fFesh and eager
and disciplined are the voices. It is a
choir so venerable —Haydn sang in it
over 200 years ago, with Mozart and
Schubert soon to follow him—and yet so
young. In the audience were Archbishop
and Mrs. Woods ; the Lord Mayor and


Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas); Garnet Carroll, his son John
and Val Dunstan (charming in a bouffant
ballerina frock of smoke-grey lace);
Kenn Brodziak, Mrs. Michael Pate and
Mrs. David Martin ; Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Martin ; the Ewart Chappies ; Mrs. F. H.
Wright and her daughter, Mrs. Patricia
Kershaw; Mr. and Mrs. Colin Badger
(he represented the Council of Adult
Education); and Mrs. Edmund Rou-
quine.
V # #
Composer Margaret Sutherland, of
Kew, has won first-prize of £l5O for her
“Outdoor Overture” in the Queensland
Centenary Composers’ Competition. As
well as writing extensively for chamber-
music, piano and orchestra, Margaret
has experimented with musical combina-
tions of various instruments ; much of
her work has been published abroad,
and recorded. Last year she, with others,
founded Camerata, a society dedicated
to the promotion of works by contempor-
ary composers. The second subscription-
concert of this society will be held on
June 22 at 8 p.m. in the Melba Hall,
University Conservatorium of Music.
The programme will be all-Australian,
and Margaret.,will be soloist in her own
Sonatina for Piano.
* ☆ *
Time stood still for 300 women at a
fashion-parade at Toorak, when gowns
of rare beauty, reminders of a more
gracious age, were shown. These wonder-
ful old-world gowns had belonged to
Mrs. Francis Henty, one of Victoria’s
pioneer-women, and her daughter. The
parade was organised to celebrate the
centenary of Red Cross and was held at
the home of Mrs. Bernard Evans. Most
of the gowns were worn either by direct
descendants of Mrs. Henty or the
wives of other of her descendants.
Mrs. Ronald Gilling, a great-grand-
daughter of Mrs. Henty, came from her
Wahroonga (Sydney) home to model
some of them. Another great-grand-
daughter in the parade was Mrs. Dugald
Matheson. Mrs. Alex Silvester, whose
husband is a great-grandson, and Mrs.
Henty Silvester, who is a great-grandniece
of Mrs. Henty, also wore the lovely
century - old gowns, some of which were
completely hand-sewn.
One gown was fastened with 80 but-
tons, and on a wedding-gown were sprigs
of orange-blossom made from chamois-
leather. The richness of the materials
was amazing, and they were beautifully
preserved. There were watered silks
(now known as moire), silk-taffetas so
stiff they could stand alone. Several white
tarlatan frocks were almost modern in
design.
After the showing of the period-gowns
some beautiful modern frocks were
modelled by well-known mannequins.
These came from the house of Le
Louvre.
The branches-committee of Red Cross,
chairman of which is Mrs. Frank May,
organised this parade. Mrs. May wel-
comed about 300 guests, among whom
were the chairman of the Victorian Divi-
sion of Red Cross, Colonel Alan
Spowers, and Mrs. Spowers, Dame Mary
Daly, Lady Connelly, Mrs. L. J. Dooling,
Mrs. Lionel Newton, Mrs. W. H. Hors-
fall, Mrs. T. G. Pizzey, Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson, Mrs. Ronald Evans, Mrs. Louis
Sallman and Mrs. Howard Buchanan.
☆☆ ’ ☆
Chili-con-carne, ice-cream cake, devil’s-
food cake and angel-food cake were
served at a luncheon held at the home
of U.S. Consul-General Graham Hall
and Mrs. Hall, to celebrate the 28th
birthday of the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Royal Children’s Hospi-
tal, of which Mrs. Hall is patroness and
Mrs. A. Klestadt' president. Since its
inception this auxiliary has raised £50,000
for the hospital—a magnificent effort.
Discussion centred on the auxiliary’s
July 4 ball (which will be held on
Friday, July 3). Members of the
decorations - committee have made gay
red-felt parka-clad figures to put on the
individual tables in the St. Kilda Palais
ballroom. The ball is under the patronage
of the Governor and Lady Brooks.
Tickets, at £5 a double, may be obtained
from Mrs. P. Mochrie (WL 3947), and
Mrs. E. Dexter (BL 7276).
Being an Australian married to an
American gives Mrs. Pierre ver Sluys
the right to belong to the American
Women’s Auxiliary to the Royal
Children’s Hospital. A very active mem-
ber—though three children and a home
at East Kew keeps her otherwise busy
Mrs. ver Sluys is chairman of the
decor ations-committee for “Alaskan
Fantasy," the annual July 4 Ball to be
held at the Palais, St. Kilda, on July 3.
Here is a good idea for committees
wanting to raise money for their organi-
sations. The Whernside Junior Auxiliary
of the Royal Melbourne Hospital is
having a party weekend from June 19
to 21. Members, their friends, and
former members of the auxiliary have
been asked to entertain eight guests at
any type of party. It may be a breakfast-
party (Mrs. Ronald Williams has already
sent out invitations for an American
breakfast at 10.30 a.m. on June 21), a
luncheon- or dinner-party, or just a
chatter arid listening to records. The
committee hopes to have 50 parties
arranged—already 22 are being organised.
Mrs. William Banks will serve liqueurs
and coffee at 7.30 p.m. on June 19 and
later hot soup and a casserole to 22
guests at her Hawthorn home. Cost of
attending any such party is 10s. per head.
* ☆ ☆
Over 100 guests attended the recep-
tion given in his Toorak home by the
Consul-General for Italy, Marchese
Giorgio Serafini, to celebrate the 13th
anniversary of the founding of the
Italian Republic. Among them were
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress,
Cr. and Mrs. F. W. Thomas (she wear-
ing a slim black wool frock and dyed-
ermine stole); Mr. Alec Fraser,
M.L.A., and Mrs. Fraser ; Sir Thomas
Maltby, representing the Premier ; Signor
and Signora Mario Vigano (she is presi-
dent of the Italian Women’s Auxiliary
to the Royal Children’s Hospital); Mr.
S. De Marco (he was responsible for the
interior of the wonderful Hall of
Memory at Canberra) and his wife;
Monagasque Consul Michael Niall and
Mrs. Niall; Spanish Consul F. Xipell
and Mrs. Xipell ; Peruvian Consul N.
McKenzie and his wife; the French
Consul and Madame Le Bas de Plumetot;
the Japanese Consul and Mrs. Nomoto ;
and Thai Consul H. I. Fader and Mrs.
Fader.
☆ ☆ ☆
Women of all nations co-operated to
make the International Fair, to raise
funds for the Alfred Hospital Appeal,
an outstanding success. Japanese women
wearing lovely satin kimonos, and Chinese
and Greek women in their beautiful
national costumes sold goods from their
well-stocked stalls in the Lower Town
Hall. Finland, Denmark, France, Italy
and Australia also were represented.
Mrs. Graham Hall, Mrs. M. N. Pierson,
Mrs. Mark Clements, Mrs. Tom Blarney
and Mrs. L. Tewkesbury sold cookies at
the American stall. Mrs. Nino Borsari
and her daughter Diana (later in national
costume), with Mrs. E. Martinoli, headed
the Italian group who served a luncheon
of pizza, spaghetti and ravioli to the
lunch-time crowd, while Madame Le Bas
de Plumetot, wife of the French Consul,
was among those who staffed the stall
organised by Frenchwomen. The sports-
men of this city were headed by Walter
Lindrum and Fred Tupper, who worked
hard during the day on the lucky prizes.
The guiding hands in the splendid orga-
nising of the fair belonged to the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. F. W. Thomas, and Lady
Coles. Both are vice-presidents of the
Women’s Group of the Alfred Hospital
Appeal, of which Mrs. James Buchanan
is president. With counting unfinished,
there was £2OOO to bank at the end of
the day.


mate, do you realise it’s raining? Stop
a mo and listen, mate ...” A major
trouble is that he is illogical. His
main theme is country-versus-city; all
virtue, all true culture reside in the
Noble Farmer; and here, too honest
an observer to fall into politics or
propaganda when he has his eye on
actual persons, he is continually con-
tradicting himself by showing us (as
in “The River” and “Tourists”) witless
farmers and cultivated city-people.
In “One Day, Perhaps in Spring” the
theme widens into an attack on the
whole course of Western civilisation:
and one doubts if Mudie has thought
for a moment about all the implica-
tions of his fantasy:—
And one morning when you wake
up as usual
there won’t be anyone reading
your newspapers,
listening to your radios, or obeying
your laws ;
no one to preserve your status quo,
fight your wars,
keep the peace for you to carry on
your revolutions —no one at all.
We’ll all have gone off fishing, or to
the pub,
or just have stayed in our gardens
or our beds.
It all sounds very pleasant, cer-
tainly; but who is going to brew the
beer? Or publish the books?
But the truth is, Mudie does get a
great deal of profit out of his some-
what happy -go - lucky approach to
poetry. The sociological approach
means that he is interested in people
and the places they live and work in;
the loose, colloquial style enables him
to handle in verse the actualities of
everyday life and the intractable
material of our modern, mechanical
civilisation which, paradoxically, he so
much objects to. So, when he comes
to the countryman who couldn’t
understand why the tourists wanted to
look at the trees, or the farmer on the
Murray who never thought about
where the water came from, he is able
to give us—in verse quite acceptable
for the pleasant beat of its speech-
rhythms—a clear and up-to-date pic-
ture of the man and the scene which
is highly refreshing:—
There ‘is a farmer on the Murray’s
bank,
member of the local council, regular
at church,
who, when he contemplates the
river, if at all,
thinks of it as made especially by
God for him.
He works beside it, drinks of it
when he’s dry,
spits in it, and, when his down-
stream neighbor’s back is turned,
empties his night-bucket in its slow-
flowing stream.
He never stops to question whence
the river comes,
nor where it goes when it has served
to water
his cows, his oranges and his lucerne-
patch,
but somehow thinks that, straight
from the hand of God,
it springs into being a mile or two
upstream from him,
then disappears into a bottomless
hole /
round the next bend or so below his
farm.
Of course. Mudie’s sociological poems,
even when they are illogical, can be
read as “moods.” valid while they last;
aspects of truth at least; and they have
force and humor. But his real strength
is not when he is attacking but when
he is observing; and. sometimes forced
in its Australianness. mostly natural,
his book is full of exceptionally lively
observation of Australian people and
places. This is the approach that, in
a solider, more disciplined technique,
made representative American poets
of Robert Frost and Edward Arlington
Robinson; and a development along
those lines could be profitable both
for Mudie and other Australian poets.
Sputniks
It is always pleasant to look up now
and again and see what may be flying
around us, which these days is liable
to be anything from a duck to a little
green man from Mars, and Karl
Gilzin’s Sputniks and After (Mac-
donald), subtitled “The Soviet Account
of Travel in Space,” promises to be
exceptionally rewarding.
So, in part, it is. Here, for instance,
following a lucid account of how it
was launched, the various problems
it had to overcome and the fuel it
used, is a useful description of that
famous carrier-rocket of the first
Sputnik which we all saw dashing
across the evening sky like some
celestial motorbike:—
It was precisely as a result of
the air-resistance that there was a
difference in the fates of the first
Sputnik and of its carrier-rocket.
At first, when the Sputnik was
ejected from the carrier-rocket, it
shot forward about a thousand
kilometres. Later on, however,
under the influence of air-resistance,
greater in the case of the carrier-
rocket, the rocket began to catch up
with the Sputnik. In about five days
it had already passed it, and begun
to move away from it more and
more rapidly, while at the same
time coming closer to the earth.
When the Sputnik had completed
500 circuits of the earth, the rocket
had already overtaken it by two
whole circuits and completed 502.
By December 2, 1957, the carrier-
rocket was a dozen circuits ahead
of the Sputnik, having completed
900 as against the Sputnik’s 888.
After this, the carrier-rocket entered
the denser layers of the atmosphere
and, two months after the launching,
it ceased to exist, burnt-up fragments
of it falling in Alaska and on the
West Coast of the United States.
There are similar accounts of the
second and third Sputniks (with the
dog in the second), both of them
virtually flying - laboratories, studying
short-waves, the corpuscular radiation
of the sun, the' static electric fields
which exist at great distances from the
earth, the tiny micrometeors which are
continually bursting into the Earth’s
atmosphere at 70 kilometres per
second, all sorts of abstruse problems
and phenomena:—
How was this complicated work
carried out? This was entrusted to a
special “brain,” an electronic device
with a strictly timed programme.
At given moments it switched on or
off the instruments, opened or shut
the blinds, “memorised” the read-
ings of the various instruments and
then transmitted them to the
observation stations on Earth.
But, interesting though all this is,
it cannot be said that the book really
lives up to its impressive title of “the”
Soviet account of travel in space.
Though Gilzin is said to have lectured
at the Moscow Aviation Institute and
the Moscow Higher Technical College,
there does not seem to be anything
official or particularly authoritative
about his book; which, in fact, except
for some naive propaganda and a few
crumbs of information about the Sput-
niks. does not differ very much from
the usual run of popular space-travel
books to be found everywhere. There
is even, at the end of it, an account
of an imaginary voyage to the moon.
Read in this way. just as ordinary
space-travel stuff, it remains interest-
ing enough. It is very pleasant indeed
to be told how difficult it will be to
fill and drink a glass of water in a
space-ship (the water will probably
collect into a ball and you would
do better to squeeze it out of a tube
like toothpaste); and how. having left
the space-ship to become a satellite
yourself for a while, you get back to
it by firing a pneumatic pistol; and
what it will be like living on a space-
station; and how you could have on
a satellite a “gigantic reflector-search-
light system for lighting the earth” (a
somewhat disconcerting prospect); and
how you dodge, or don’t, the meteoric
bodies as large as “entire mountains
rushing about in space”; and how at
last, taking your ease on the Moon,
you read a book by the light of the
Earth.
The propaganda, claiming that “the
first plane to carry man to the skies
was built by Alexander Mozhaisky,
the founder of modern airplane design-
ing,” is almost equally wonderful and


Bony and the Mouse
Arthur Upheld
A new Arthur Upheld thriller involving the inimitable
Detective-Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte.
‘‘Unique figure among top-flight detectives" ... .C. A. Lejeune.
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
15'e
HOW TO STUDY
by Colin E. Woodley
Here is a really practical book by a successful student for all school, college, university
and mght-school students. It will help them to clarify their approach to study, plan their
work effectively, get the most out of classes and lectures, take efficient notes, and face
the ordeal of examinations. 9/6 (post 7d.)
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS AND . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
contains only one slip when, celebrat-
ing the “crowning glory of our military
rocket equipment,” the 1.C.8.M.,
Gilzin forgets to add that this elegant
device was only one more step in the
Soviet’s “striving to promote the cause
of peace” on which, in the opening
chapter, he lays so much stress.
Poker for Keeps
If you think you’re good at poker,
and you know you aren’t, The Educa-
tion of a Poker Player by Herbert O.
Yardley (Cape) should be enough to
swear you off for life. Yardley is a
code-breaker, and since his retirement
from some cloak-and-dagger branch
of the American administration has
devoted himself to a specialised study
of the game he has played expertly
since he was an adolescent.
A bright boy at school, with a flair
for mathematics, he was 16 when his
mother died around 1905; he imme-
diately took the 200 dollars she had
left him, with what he had saved, to
Monty’s saloon in a frontier town at
Indiana. James Montgomery was con-
sidered a bit too good for the small
town, and the story was that he had
“killed a man who was fooling round
with his wife.” Anyway, young
Yardley observed that Monty always
thumped the table and bet with his
right hand instead of his left when
he was bluffing; and Yardley turned
this to a profit of 250 dollars on one
night’s play. Thereafter he was button-
holed by Monty, and offered a job
as “houseman,” not to cheat the cus-
tomers, but to see that the house didn’t
lose . . . More importantly, he received
from Montgomery regular and careful
tuition, much of it a post-mortem on
the previous night’s play; and he
prints Monty’s comments as though
Monty were Confucius or Socrates
laying-down the law:—
“If you have three of a kind above
tens, don’t raise. You want the
other players in. If the threes are
below tens, raise. You don’t want
too many drawing against you.”
Monty thought for a moment. “Oh,
yes, there is one more thing about
taking three cards. Your chances of
drawing another pair are greatly
enhanced because the cards are
usually not shuffled too well and
the pairs tend to stick together from'
the previous deal.”
This he takes on into small - print
analyses of deals, with all the hands,
draws, betting, winning hands, etc.;
and when he has exhausted Monty’s
by-no-means elementary tuition on
Five-card Draw, Jacks or better; Five-
card Stud; and Five-card Draw,
Deuces wild with the Joker; he goes
on to tell how, in China, where he was
doing a job of Japanese code-breaking
for Chiang Kai-shek, he educated his
Chinese factotum, Mr. Ling, in:—
Five- c a r d Draw, Low Ball;
Seven-card Stud; Seven-card Stud,
Hi-lo; Five - card Stud with the
Joker; Six-card Stud, with and with-
out Joker; Seven-card Stud with
these variations: Betty Hutton,
Doctor Pepper, Low, High and with
Joker, Hi-lo with Joker, Baseball,
Football, Low Spade-high Hand,
and Low Hole Card Wild; and in
Five-card Draw with seven varia-
tions, the seventh being Spit-in-the-
Ocean.
All of which passes as much over
the reviewer’s head as a dissertation
by Einstein on the quantum theory;
and one would hardly mention it if
this finely-produced book were not
filled-out with stories told by the way
about poker-players who fell by the
wayside: how Monty dealt with Lolly,
who had snuck-in marked cards; how
he took Hairlip for his new rig and
matched pair of geldings, and" Jake
the Drummer for his trunks of
samples; how a young man had such
beautiful, slender fingers that they took
him east and, when he could deal in
front of a mirror without being able
to see himself cheat, introduced him
to the big-time; and how (the really
big story) Farmer Bones Alverson
collapsed and died staking what was
left of his farm against a travelling-
showman’s circus; and how they took
his cards from his dead hand, com-
pleted the draw, and adjudged, the
hand to the dead man.
In China it is the same, beginning
with Yardley’s kindly arrangement
that Mr. Ling, who had been told the
most extraordinary stories by a
Chinese student returned from Paris,
should see at first-hand what a
European woman looked like without
any clothes. There is an interview with
Chiang, a mordant survey of life and
card- playing in the last days of
Nationalist China, and an account of
how Yardley unmasked a German-
Japanese plot to kill or kidnap the
Generalissimo.
Nobody, not even lan Fleming, in
his Introduction, gloats or says “Hah!”
but there is that atmosphere of menace
about this compilation which should
reinforce Mother’s Warning never to
play cards with strangers, or with any-
one you know as well as Mr. Yardley
when you have finished his book.
r
Pimpernel in Prague: Donald
Campbell-Shaw (Odhams). Finding
that the authorities could do nothing
to rescue his Czech brother-in-law
who was in danger of arrest under the
Communist regime, Campbell-Shaw
decided to do it himself—and did. It
is a fantastic and most readable story
of correspondence by code, secret meet-
ings with enigmatic characters, several
journeys into Central Europe and, in
the end, a simple but extremely danger-
ous trip into Czechoslovakia by train.
The brother-in-law, with wife and
small daughter, were taken by lorry
to a place near the border and crossed
by night into Germany. Or '
helpers was an ex-blackmar 7
had a hoard of Hitler’s forg
banknotes,


No more hydrometer testing
with this long-life
Home-lighting;
BATTERY
Inbuilt gravity balls that indicate the state
of charge of the cells at all times are a
feature of the ERG type 2EPH-27 2-volt
Home-lighting Battery.
mm
mm
ms
im
&
i
M
■
in
■ i
mmm
£
-
I
Ifilf
:
--T ‘
'
★ Suitable for all home-
lighting installations.
Capacity: 225 ampere
hours.
★ Attractive, transparent
polystyrene container
enables you to SEE the
acid level.
★ Double insulation (in-
cluding glass wool)
minimises shedding, en-
suring longer life.
GUARANTEED for 3 YEARS
ERG BATTERIES PTY. LTD.
156 GOULBURN STREET. SYDNEY. MA 6188.
DISTRIBUTED BY:
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - SYDNEY
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - BRISBANE
32 Barry Parade. ’Phone 2-6565.
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty. Ltd. MELBOURNE
200 Latrobe Street. FJ 1 155.
Erg Batteries (S.A.) Ltd. - ADELAIDE
13-15 Ackland Street. ’Phone W 4744.
Erg Distributors - - - - LAUNCESTON
12 Cameron Street. ’Phone 1950.
J. R. Roe & Company - - DARWIN
Cavenagh Street, ’Phone 761.
Walter Sully & Co. Pty. Ltd. - - - BROKEN HILL
404 Argent Street. ’Phone 2388.
df
7%e Unit ejf
