

The Bulletin
The Sailmaker’s Story—page 32
Wednesday, October 7 , 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
h'ngistoml in Australia for transmission by post its a newspaper
"Sing-out when you're ready, Susan, and I'll fry and grab a beach-photographer ."


Win Success
as a Writer!
There is always a demand for Well-Written
Short Stories, Articles. Written Sketches,
Radio Talks, Pars., etc.
STOTT’S will provide you with interest-
ing:, Practical, Home-Study Instruction of
the highest quality, under the guidance of
thoroughly experienced Instructors.
Mrs. J. Penna earned £7O for Short
Stories whilst stiil engaged on her Course.
Another Student earned over £2OO for
Acceptances during six months.
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in Writing.
Mail the Coupon today.
mmMMMm
159 Flimlers Fane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagli St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide st., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St.., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON ---
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (SB. 1959)
BOOKHUISTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
POEMS OF DISCOVERY
William Hart-Smith’s poetry tricked
me once; so never, i hope, again.
That was a good many years ago
when the Jindyworobaks were all
prowling around pretending to be
aborigines; and I was somewhat agin
them. Hart-Smith published a slim
little paper-covered volume then, his
first very likely, and I am afraid I
reviewed it with some disparagement.
The book included the start of his
magnificent sequence on Columbus—-
which is reprinted complete in his new
book, Poems of Discovery (Angus and
Robertson) —and these poems, tnank
Heaven, I did properly appreciate; but
the rest of it was about aborigines, and
I doubted it. Besides, it seemed tech-
nically very slight; possibly even free-
verse, which seldom really amounts to
poetry.
I met Hart-Smith up in Beatrice
Davis’s eyrie in Angus and Robertson’s
just after the book came out; and,
since the meeting was distinctly chilly-,
in desperation asked him straight-out
how he had liked my review. He said,
“Not much.” And there was a pause.
I forget now under what smokescreen
of forced genialities on both sides I
managed to creep under the door and
away; but it was one of those moments
in a reviewer’s life which one could
well dispense with.
I mention this small incident now
not in any undue spirit of humility—
a mistake now and then is inevitable
in the reviewing trade; and I have long
since made amends to Hart-Smith in a
review of the Caxton Press edition of
the Columbus poems—but because his
poetry still seems to be tricking some
critics both here and in New Zealand;
most notably of late the Melbourne
critic Vincent Buckley in his admir-
able “Essays in Poetry.” The point on
which Buckley took him was his
resemblance to other writers of
“voyager-poems,” and there was some
technical criticism as well: “Hart-
Smith’s poems of discovery simply
repeat, in a devitalised form, the
rhythms and perspectives of Slessor,
Fitz Gerald and Webb.”
Here, then, complete, is one of the
“poems of discovery,” “Comes Fog
and Mist,” from the Columbus
sequence:—
. . . and all the sails hang limp.
The ship is the core of a pearl;
we are enclosed.
Lord God, the mist; there is no need
of it
here on your ocean sea, for we
are already lost.
It has its own
mysterious sound, and you call
the softest murmur of a girl’s
lips speech, then this is all
one continuous whisper whisper-
ing .. .
Here fine gold hair upon my wrist
grows pearls.
Lord God, the mist,
and we already lost.
This doesn’t seem to me remotely
like the fuller, richer, harsher or more
measured rhythms of Slessor, Webb or
Fitz Gerald; on the contrary, in its
subtlety and delicacy of sound and
music it is as individual as it is
exquisite. Nor does it seem “devital-
ised”; slighter if you like, but more
sensitive.
And as to its repeating the “per-
spectives”—that is, the themes and out-
look —of the others, it was, I think,
written (or at least begun) before any
of Webb’s voyager-poems, and also
before “Heemskerck Shoals”; and if
admittedly it was written after Slessor’s
“Five Visions of Captain Cook,” it is
not, really very much like it.
Hart-Smith may possibly have
written “Christopher Columbus” be-
cause he had read “Five Visions of
Captain Cook”; but he may have
written it simply because voyager-
themes have always naturally occurred
to Australian poets and balladists
from the very foundation of the colony;
and then again he may have written
it because, as he told me once when I
met him on a second, happier occa-
sion, some of his own ancestors were
Spanish—l think that that is very likely
what makes him write so often on
South American themes.
But, except that the criticisms are
made publicly in a book, intended to
last, and therefore must be queried if
one thinks they should be, I do not
make these points to pick a quarrel
with Mr. Buckley any more than I
confess my own mistakes to pick a
quarrel with myself. The essential fact
to be established is that Hart-Smith’s
poetry is so slight and elusive that it is
likely to trick anybody; and the
trickiest part about it is that, though
always interesting for the unusual
quality of his mind, sometimes it is
really too slight altogether—and
usually it isn’t.
Hart-Smith moves at all times
perilously on the edge of nothingness;
or, at best, of a free-verse like that of
D. H. Lawrence which you read for
the thought, but not as poetry. Faint,
rare, sensitive rhymes, so faint that
sometimes they vanish; spare, subtle
rhythms of speech, sometimes
dropping merely into conversation:
these are his dangers and weaknesses,
but in them are also his virtues. One
of the ways in which he tricks you is
that he is an expert in the fine art of
not saying too much. And one of his
peculiarly individual qualities is that
he is unusually sensitive to physical
movement —as other poets are to color
or sound —so that his poems only come
fully to life when they are spoken
aloud, when the voice can dramatise
the movements: the fluttering “Boomer-
ang,” for instance:—
Elbow of wood from flexed elbow
of bone
to a swift hawk has amazingly
grown
that mounts the sky, sun in its
wings,
up, up, over the far tree flutter-
ing .. .
or his delightful “Kangaroos.” Any-
body can recognise the poetry in the
final image of that poem, when the
kangaroos suddenly turn into “deliber-
ate great fleas” hopping over the brown
fur of the paddocks, but you need to
be practised in reading Hart-Smith—
or to read the poem aloud —to realise
that the plain jumping nouns and
verbs of the earlier lines- are no less
effective poetry:—
One notices the head gone,
pulled down out of sight, like the
vanished bird,
but all over the unfurled
map of the landscape minute brown
figures, dots, jump, all diminishing,
yet
each pursuing
lines that intersect, making a maze
of crazy map-lines . . .
Where are the rhymes in all this,
granted that the movement is dramatic?
o Continued on page 58)


c? £
11
rvwm
Hfy
mgmrn
o
Agents are always welcome
People insure with people they trust,
and what a wealth of trust and confidence is
placed in the IN A —lnsurance Company of
North America —Agent ... he represents
the oldest and strongest Fire and Marine
Insurance Company in U.S.A., which brings
security to many thousands of Australians.
The INA Agent finds his clients are his
friends, his friends his clients.
INA’s activities are worldwide, but
through its many thousands of Agents, and
the confidence it places in them, it brings
to you the advantage of a highly personal
service. INA is, in fact, a friendly Com-
pany which likes to interpret its insurance
contracts in a spirit of compromise and
reasonableness.
It will be in your interest to ask an
INA Agent for his help in completing your
General Household policies (home and
contents and personal effects), Business
policies (fire with consequential loss of
profits, public risk, burglary, plate glass,
personal accident and all sickness), Marine
policies (intrastate, interstate and inter-
national), Tourist Travel and Luggage
Protection.
INA
INSURANCE BY NORTH AMERICA
Insurance Company of North America
Incorporated in U.S.A. with Limited Liability.
BRANCHES AT SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • AUCKLAND, NX


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 7, 1959
Vol. 80 — No. 4156
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: 8U'5%71.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
AFTER FIFTEEN YEARS
YXfITH the approach of United
Nations Day this month, a flood
of “public-relations” is being issued
from the headquarters in New York.
The significance of this may lie in
the fact that propaganda is needed still
to justify the huge expenditure and
the army of publicists, broadcasters,
delegates and plain busybodies who
haunt the huge flatiron on the East
River.
The U.N. finds it necessary con-
tinually to vaunt its prowess, to
explain its performances, to urge the
paying world to look on it and admire
its unity of purpose which is not there,
and to ignore the fact that it is really
three united organisations.
One of these is the armed camp of
Communism, which uses U.N. as an
instrument of the world-revolution, as
a neutral platform from which it can
propagate ideas while leaving those
who receive them deceived as to their
source and purpose. One is the
English-speaking West and its Euro-
pean allies, which is genuinely striving
to bring about global accord.
And one is the half-world of
frightened and mixed-up leaders whose
own nations (sometimes only so-
called) subscribe in practice to none
of the main ideals of the U.N. Charter,
but out of prudence belong to U.N.
for what they can get out of it.
These abstain from voting whenever
they think their vote will offend one
of the two great contending lions of
the world arena.
There is, of course, the fourth U.N.,
which consists of the rapidly growing
group of the Red Chinese bloc, which
is in process of being enlarged by the
same sort of disguised conquest that
sucked the eastern European countries
into the Soviet Union orbit and the
Warsaw Pact, v
At the moment there seems no like-
lihood of welding these units into a
single whole with one purpose. To
abandon the Nationalist Chinese would
bring Red China into U.N. with a new
veto gained by the Red bloc and
produce a raging struggle for
ascendancy.
To enforce the acceptance and prac-
tice of U.N. principles by the gaggle
of murderous little dictatorships which
batten on U.N. and blackmail it into
tolerating them in return for their
periodical support of one of the great
opposing groups, or to promote their
specious claims to “nationalism,”
would be to destroy the world nature
of U.N., which is like a brain without
arms or legs and which can go
nowhere and do nothing of itself
except compromise.
'pHE League of Nations was about as
blank a failure in human endeavor
for peace as could be conceived, and
left nothing behind it but its huge \
derelict building at Geneva and one
cunning Communist-invented slogan of
the world revolution propagated by
Litvinov: “Peace is indivisible.” This
is a basic idea and the foundation of
the Communist axiom that peace can
only be made indivisible by the
liquidation of capitalism, which must
be destroyed violently if it will not
obediently lie down and die at the
behest of the Kremlin and its world
agencies.
The proclaiming of this Red creed
at Geneva was the highlight of the
career of the League, the prelude to
the ruin of the League.
The resurrection of it in the mouth
of Khrushchev in disguised and more
tortuous phrases seems the prelude to
something of the same fate for the
U.N. unless it can acquire some teeth.
While it mouths ideals, its own
members by the dozen are negating its
principles. The hangings in Irak, the
invasions of Hungary and Tibet and
Laos, the bloody revolution of Cuba,
are as much repugnant to the basic
ideas of the U.N. Charter’s preamble
as the undermining of systems which
goes on all the time and the threats
and the recriminations which, day and
night, fill the air.
The Preamble of the U.N. Charter
opens with the words: —
We, the Peoples of the United Nations,
determined to save succeeding genera-
tions from the scourge of war, which
twice in our time has brought sorrow"
to mankind....
While the strange concern keeps on
“reaffirming its faith in fundamental
human rights, in the dignity and worth
of the human person, in the equal rights
of men and women and of large nations
and small,” a very large number of all
its members are denying the most
crucial of these rights, imposing
conscription for both military and
civil purposes, denying men and
women their right to their own
thoughts and political opinions, putting
them in slave-camps or deporting them
to Arctic wastes.
While U.N. proclaims its “deter-
mination,” again, to establish condi-
tions “under which justice and respect
for the obligations arising from
treaties and other sources of inter-
national law may be maintained,” all
it seems able to do about this is to
keep in being a polyglot force on the
Israeli-Egyptian border, which is hold-
ing competitions in the production of
savory foods and vying internationally
in swimming-competitions. The U.N.
has done nothing, and can do nothing,
about Tibet. Indeed, it has actually
before it a resolution- to let the
aggressor and destroyer of human
rights into the organisation.
It can do nothing about Israel.
While its private army luxuriates along
the border, every visitor to Egypt finds
the most striking feature about Egypt
to be that Nasser is arming with the
avowed purpose of striking at Israel
and presenting U.N. with a fait
accompli on the lines popularised by
the U.S.S.R. and Red China half-a-
dozen times over.
jy EAN WHILE, United Nations Day
is to be celebrated as usual.
Its latest issue of publicity
announces that “some idea of the
extent and variety of ways in which
the day will be marked round the
world can be had from the fact that
the index of types of observance in
1959 runs to three-and-a-half quarto
pages.” The headings include “Art,
Music and Science.. . .Community
Projects .... Educational Activities,”
and, among a number of others,
children’s parties, “taking flowers to
mothers in hospital, releasing balloons
with names of U.N. member-countries,
poster-displays in art-galleries, stores
and factories, U.N. photographs in
shop-windows,” and the selling of U.N.
flags —anybody who wants it can get
one four yards long for £l4 13s. in all-
wool bunting and £2O in wool and
nylon.
The sports section includes “cricket
matches, boat races and hoisting U.N.
flag on a mountain.”
The Tibetan Himalayas seem to be
excluded as the scenes of the last type
of sport. In the Suez Canal (which
has no mountains) it is replaced by a
hunting-the-Israeli-mail competition in
the holds of ships of U.N. nations,
while in Irak the cricket is replaced
by marksmanship competitions among
firing-squads who, during the past week
or two, have been engaged in killing-off
unwanted Premiers, Ministers and
soldiers.


THE MIXTURE. AS BEFORE!
“Hey, McKerihan! If you can’t stop the thing, don’t you think you might wipe that everlasting cheeriness off your
face and drive it somewhere out of sight?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Cahill's Surrender
Mr. Cahill’s new proposal for altering
the Industrial Arbitration Act (N.S.W.)
shows the unholy nature of the whole-
sale schemes with which he essayed to
save his political life at this year’s elec-
tions.
Short of selling his political soul done- ,
up in Cellophane, and his trousers, he
seems to have parted with almost every-
thing he had to offer in return for the
support of both the Left and the Catholic
vote.
Under the influence of his bargaining
the Democratic Labor party suddenly
found itself bereft of the support it had
had in the Federal elections, which
seemed to speak a mouthful.
At the same time, while it suggested
that Mr. Cahill was much beloved by
the haters of Communism, he seems to
have driven a desperate bargain to
carry-out the campaign of the Com-
munist-party allies in the A.L.P. unions.
This bargain was a remarkable
example of the elasticity of the Cahill
principles. In order not to rouse the
possum in the devotees of the ideal of
compulsory unionism he failed to seek
a mandate for its abolition at the polls.
Equally aware of the danger of giving-
way publicly to the demand of the Com-
munist leaders of the Miners’ Federation
and the Waterside Workers and others
of similar breed, he announced that
he could not consider the question of
reducing hours in State and other ..coal-
mines to 35 until he had the report of
the commission on automation. But the
fact that the Communists showed little
disturbance at this avowal and a greater
patience than is normal in them sug-
gests that they were quite happy in their
own private knowledge.
This, of course, assured that Cahill
would not be embarrassed during the
campaign through other unions following
the coalminers and putting pressure on
him, thus making the shortening of hours
an issue which might have affected the
civil-service vote.
Anyway, once he had won he calmly
announced reduction of hours in the
State coalmines, without showing any
disposition to wait for the Automation
Commission’s report.
Now, after a decent interval and after
having waited to see whether the Com-
munists would resume domination of the
A.C.T.U., he has announced the rest of
the plan which represents a complete
surrender to Communist policy.
All strikes are to become legal without
secret ballot provided. 14 days’ notice is
given to the Minister. It will cease,
however, to matter much whether a strike
is legal or not, because the penalties for
illegalities, for striking, aiding or abetting
strikes, and with newspapers and their
editors for counselling and promoting
strikes, are to be reduced to token pro-
portions or abolished. There will be
no longer any penalty for declaring firms
or commodities black.
That compulsory-unionism is replaced
by absolute preference- looks at first
glimpse like a relaxation of union-
domination. But it is even more danger-
ous than all-round compulsion, which is
impossible to apply. It means the same
in effect, but takes the judicial power in
enforcing unionism out of the hands of
the State and puts it in that of the union-
leaders. '
With absolute preference ,it is clear
that in nine cases out of ten the man or
woman who chooses not to be a unionist
will not be able to get a job. And under
the new Act it seems that there will be
no power to compel a union to have any
particular man in its ranks. There Will
not even be any redress, so far as can
be seen from the announcement, if he is
thrown out without just cause.
The proposals envisage removal of any
doubts about the rights of unions to con-
tribute to the funds of a political party
with which they are affiliated, and pre-
sumably will permit the same unions to
enforce levies for the purpose fropi their
members, irrespective of their political
opinions.
This is a central aim of the new
legislation. Combined with the absolute-
preference clauses, the new bill seems
intended to provide for not only enforced
union-membership but for enforced sup-
port of the Labor-party funds. There are
a lot of subsidiary provisions about tri-
bunals and appeals which appear to be
in the plan to prevent easy appeal by
those who disagree with union decisions.
The whole plan is both iniquitous and
cunning, made to seem reasonable
through camouflage but as tyrannous as
anything designed by the Kremlin. It
abolishes freedom of expression and
political action in the unions. It applies
the principle of absolute monopoly, which
unionism professes to hate, to the Labor
party, and the ultimate result must be
the establishment of Socialism by
trickery.
From Peking to Westminster
Khrushchev’s flight to China was as
carefully timed as the rest of his perform-
ances during the past two months.
He agreed to go to the United States
at a time when Britain was likely to be
plunged in an election-campaign and
when, therefore, the British Government
could make no determinative decisions
on policy.
Her' did his best both to establish an
ascendancy over U.S. public opinion
with a view to his future objectives, and
to promote indirectly the cause of
British Labor by dispelling in the U.K.
alarm at his tactics.
Obviously with a Labor Government
in power in the U.K. there would be
more industrial unrest, more emphasis
on a domestic programme and issues
and less cordiality in the relations
between Washington and Westminster.
The defeat of the Macmillan Govern-
ment is almost a vital issue with the
Kremlin, since it might lead to the
breaking-up of NATO. If followed by
a Democratic victory in the Presidential
elections next year with a new Roosevelt,
soft to handle and surrounded by parlor-
pinks, in office, the ball would be at
Moscow’s feet.
The of the U.K. Labor election-
drive, though it is not so apparent on the,
surface, is coming from the Communist-
led unions.
This accounts for the vigor of the
campaign so strongly in contrast to the
feeble pre-campaigning of Mr. Gaitskell
and his lieutenants, among whom only
Aneurin Bevan has shown any fire.
Khrushchev’s Peking campaign, con-
ducted while the U.N. Assembly is still
sitting, is, of course, related to the various
sequences which lead to the ultimate
purpose of a weakened and divided West
in the hands of milksop visionaries and
Socialists.
It is intended, on the eve of Mao’s
1960 programme, to demonstrate the
strength of the Communist bloc in the
“Australia’s Noblest Son”
(Edmund Barton); “Gentle
Alfred Deakin”; “Apprehen-
sive Andy Fisher”; “Billy the
Great” personal-acquaintance
impressions of all of them
are brightly set down in the
coming “Bulletin” serial; first
instalment, October 21. See
page 14.
East as well as in Europe. The impas-
sioned argument of Khrushchev for the
admission of Red China to U.N. has
become more than ever an obsession
of the Kremlin now that there is a
chance of a Socialist victory'in the U.K.
With two Communist vetoes out of five
and a Socialist U.K. Government hold-
ing the third, it might be expected that
the United States would be isolated and
the South-east Asian nations cowed in
U.N. meetings.
At the same time, the journey has
given the opportunity for a display of
Chinese military might to frighten the
South-east Asian countries and Japan.
Other internal workings of the Kremlin
policy and plans show through the outer
skin of events. It is known that there
is conflict between China and the U.S.S.R.
over the status of Outer Mongolia and
other States, and the visitor to Peking
does not seem unmindful of the prudence
of leaving in the wily Chinese mind a
suggestion that he may be able to depend
on an American entente if need be.
It is even possible that much of his
sudden desire for early disarmament is
connected with nervousness about the
strength of China, its increasing diver-
gences from the path of Marxism-
Leninism, and its racial habit of letting
the pressures of food needs carry its
people towards Europe in conquering
hordes when they become strong enough
to move the mass. A giant Yugoslavia
following an independent course in Asia
would be a nightmare to the Russians.
Khrushchev’s desire to bring Red


China into U.N. may only be equalled
by his desire to see it disarmed, and that
rapidly for the sake of the Soviet Union’s
skin.
At any rate, a few weeks should tell
a lot, if Mr. Macmillan’s prediction of
a swiftly-held summit conference is
accurate.
Footscray's Dinkum Aussies
Considerable importance has been
attached to, of all things, a rock-’n’-roll
brawl at Footscray, the overblown Mel-
bourne industrial suburb, with demands
for an inquiry by Government or social
researchers into aspects of the row
between New Australian and Australian
youths.
It was quite a to-do, with the police
marching-off with knives, lengths of
timber with pieces of metal nailed on the
end, chair-legs, broken bottles, stones,
pieces of heavy insulated wire bound at
the end with copper-wire, and a couple
of prisoners; an ambulance moved-off
with the more or Jess injured, while
others with mere bloody faces nursed
them in the gutters.
It was not the stuff on which royal
commissions sit, but there are grounds
at this stage of Australian development
for some examination of the dreary
Dinkum Aussie complex with its reiter-
ated assertion that one Australian (especi-
ally with length of timber in one hand
and a broken bottle in the other) is better
than three Dagoes.
The assimilation of New Australians
into the varied communities of Mel-
bourne, which is accepting a very high
proportion of all Australian migration,
seems to have been accomplished with
far more ease than may have been
expected, especially in such suburbs as
Fitzroy, Carlton and Collingwood ; but
there are pockets, notably in western
districts from Kensington to Footscray,
where the newcomers, especially from
Mediterranean countries, are resented
and harassed.
Footscray, despite the limited efforts
of its councillors, remains one of Mel-
bourne’s least attractive suburbs, with
nothing more to offer than many and
constant jobs at its expanding factories ;
but the Dinkum Aussie spirit of Foot-
scray was summed-up by a local author-
ity.
He was Cr. Keily, who told the follow-
ing council-meeting that he had gone
to the dance as a bodgie and saw toughs
from other suburbs arriving in flash cars
well prepared for a brawl and carrying
coshes, bike-chains and goodness knows
how many other weapons.
The inference is clear: the Footscray
rock-’n’-roll school would be quite happy
provided there were no intruders from
darker Melbourne, let alone overseas.
The truth is, however, that Footscray
has the worst record of any suburb in
Australia for vandalism, quite aside from
its antipathy to New Australians, and
has one of the hardest-worked police
forces.
Who Wants a Super-Council?
Sydney is used to proposals for bigger
and better councils or other authorities
who will run its affairs more efficiently
than the existing ones. Latest in this
field is a recommendation to be put
forward by a committee of the Local
Government Association at the associa-
tion’s annual conference at Lismore on
October 27. It’s a scheme to make all
previous schemes look like mere nibbles
at the problem.
The proposal is that a single metro-
politan authority should take-over the
administration of all functions common
to the whole metropolitan area. These
include planning, water-supply and
sewerage, public road-transport, fire-
protection, traffic-control, food-controi
(abattoirs, inspections and marketing),
housing, main arterial roads, large-scale
drainage, recreational areas of a metro-
politan nature, electricity- and gas-supply,
national fitness, burial, control of Sydney
Harbor, hospital and ambulance services,
welfare-work, tourist-promotion, health-
campaigns, stimulation of industry and
local-government finance.
It is suggested that this body would be
elected by the aldermen and councillors
of the councils in the metropoltian area.
It would not replace the municipal and
shire councils, but would be additional
to them. It would have a full-time chair-
man and it would take-over the policy-
determination of the Transport Depart-
ment, the Metropolitan Water Board, the
Board of Fire Commissioners, the Mari-
time Services Board, the Department of
Main Roads, the Sydney County Council
and the Cumberland County Council.
The committee says that in its view
services for the City of Sydney should
be controlled through their representa-
tives by the people of Sydney, while the
State concerns itself with matters of
State-wide importance.
Apart from this affirmation of belief,
the report gives no arguments to justify
the establishment of this super-council ;
no figures or facts to show what the
people of Sydney would gain from the
change. The super-council would have
to be responsible to the State Govern-
ment —presumably through the Minister
for Local Government —and in the case
of most of the boards taken under its
wing it would mean imposing another
authority between them and the Gov-
ernment without any guarantee of
increased efficiency.
Wool Futures
[From Canberra]
It is now more than six months since
nine Sydney woolbroking firms advised
the Government that they wished to
set-up a wool-futures market, and sought
Government approval for it. However,
the whole thing seems to have bogged-
down in a conflict between the depart-
ments of Trade, Primary Industry and
the Treasury.
The two former believe a futures
market would do something to stabilise
wool prices and prevent the violent
fluctuations under the_ existing auction
system.
The Treasury, on the other hand,
fears that institution of a futures market
would open the way for speculators to
hop-in and rake a lot of cream off the
top, to the economy’s detriment, as well
as puncturing a hole through exchange-
control.
Trade and Primary Industry are under-
stood to have pressed Treasurer Holt
for a decision before he left recently
for his world trip, but Holt stalled them
off and it now seems no decision will
be reached before he and Sir Roland
Wilson return this month.
Some Government members, who have
been pushing for a futures scheme, are
getting restive, and one, David Fairbairn,
from N.S.W., opened-up the other day
and criticised the Government for its
inactivity in the matter.
"M. G. S." Passes
Passed on in Melbourne, on Saturday,
at 73, Mervyn G. Skipper, since March,
1956, The Bulletin’s Melbourne art and
dramatic critic, and before that, with a
break in the mid-’thirties, its chief Mel-
bourne representative back to 1924.
He came from a family of journalists;
his father and grandfather were both
connected with the “Register” (Adelaide).
“M.G.S.” joined the Eastern Extension
Telegraph Co.’s service as a youngster,
decided to become an authority on
eastern Asia, and moved from point to
point in the cable co.’s service, from
Java, Borneo and Cocos Island to Vladi-
vostock.
All the time he was in the East he
wrote—for The Bulletin, and just to
please himself. It was while in Malaysia
that he began his charming book The
Meeting Pool, published in 1929. In
The Bulletin he wrote under the pen-
names of “M.G.5.,” “Feng-shui,”
“Nakhoda” and “Chevroford.” He retired
from the Eastern Extension Co. in 1924
and joined The Bulletin in Sydney,
moving to Melbourne soon afterwards.
In Melbourne Mervyn Skipper became
associated with the Meldrum art school
and Justus Jorgensen, and moved to
Eltham; he lived in Eltham until his
death.
He veered away from the ultra-modern
school of art in his later life, but remained
an enthusiastic student and critic of all
art and the drama; he wrote his last
piece a week or two before he died. He
was the doyen of Melbourne theatrical
critics towards the end, and stole the
show with his critique of “My Fair Lady”
in B. 4/2/’59. Among the many interests
of his active mind were Shaw, Freud,
Wirth’s Circus, his ancient motor-car
(until it gave up the ghost in 1955), and
pise house-construction.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TTavino occasion to use the
King of Siam’s name in an
article, I looked through some press-
clippings to find the correct spelling,
but I almost needed a sedative as a
result. On May 5, 1950, Sydney “Sun”
gave it as Phumiphol, later on in
the same story Phumiphon, and in
December, 1956, plumped for Phumi-
phon Adunet. Two attempts by the
“Daily Telegraph” were Phumipol
Aduldej (24/10/’56) and Phumipon
(7/1/’59). Even London “Times” couldn’t
quite make up its mind, with Phumipol
Aduldet and Phumipol Aduldej.
Phuming, I phinally consulted The
Statesmen’s Year Book and was re-
warded with Bhumibol Adulyadej ! —
“Phlummoxed.”
♦> ♦>
“Yakipan”: To Melbourne’s several
establishments for initiating aspiring
models and others into the mysteries of
charm, elegance and deportment has
been added the Ecstasy, Deportment and
Grooming Academy. A diploma in
ecstasy —that would be something!
♦♦♦
“Murray Swagman”: The S.A. branch
of the R.S.L. is rebuilding its State
headquarters in Angas Street, Adelaide.
To finance this, the branch is selling
a 14-years’ membership-ticket for £lO,
in effect a discount of £4 for cash. When
the issue was announced at a sub-branch
meeting a Boer War veteran immediately
got his cheque-book out: “This’ll do
me,” he declared ; “save me four pounds
in my old age !” He’s 92.
♦l<
“Irving”: The swy game, an impromptu
school started in jest in the backyard
of a Melbourne pub some hours before
the match on Preliminary Final day,
soon developed into a serious seminar.
On spinning-out after a long run of
ins, Smithy counted among his winnings
two football grandstand-tickets he had
accepted at their face-value of 10-bob
each. It was a good hour before the
game, but he couldn’t find a buyer for
"Get los t!"
the tickets among the pub patrons. His
attempts to sell the tickets in the street
brought only suspicious looks, though
he reduced the price till he found him-
self trying to give the briefs away;
yet scalpers were doing fair business
outside the ground less than a mile off.
Eventually his most disarming approach
gained him the attention of a young
fellow who carefully scrutinised the
gifts, accepted them together with a
sarcastically proffered two-bob, and
departed with the manner of a man who
thought he’d been somehow taken-in.
*t> ❖
“Dorian”: Walking along George
Street, Sydney, just after the annual
Apprenticeship March had held-up the
traffic and split the city’s air with bag-
pipes, I saw this wonderful man in a
gaberdine overcoat bustling up the street
hurling himself at the steel “No Parking”
signs. He launched himself at every post
all the way from Market Street to the
Town Hall (quite a lot of them, too)
muttering vague but unmistakable
obscenities between posts. At Park
Street; ignoring the implacable
policeman barring us ordinary mortals
on the opposite corner, he strode
right across, muttering and bustling
through the traffic. The funny thing
was, the whole area was creeping with
cops, with Sir Leslie Morshead’s funeral
at nearby St. Andrew’s Cathedral due
to be conducted an hour or so later.
Several cops looked at him curiously,
but made no move to interrupt his
damaging progress. Maybe, even though
the steel posts quivered, he was Mr.
Alcoholic Anonymous.
♦I 4 ♦♦♦
i
“Jasby”: The bloke at the door carried
a plastic bucket and had a packet of
soap-powder in his hand, but his manner
was so polite and disarm-
ing when he told me he
was conducting “a sort of
survey” that I tempered my
Sorry -1 - really - haven’t -
a * moment - to - spare -
I - have - to - rush - for -
a-train'with the addendum
“But if it’s of any help to
you we already use your
product.” “Do you?” he
said eagerly. “Have you got
a packet in the kitchen?”
“Yes,” said I, think-
ing this closed the inter-
view. It didn’t, quite.
“Then they’re all yours,”
he told me. Handing me
the bucket, he went on his
cheerful way, leaving me
the richer by one plastic
bucket, one plastic-sponge
mop, one square of
absorbent cleansing-
material and one packet
of soap-powder. My wife
calculated the value at
£2 10s. Only trouble is
that she’s since spent
twice that sum buying-up
every brand of soap-
powder, detergent and
cleanser she can lay hands
on, just in case some other firm decides
to conduct a similar survey.
*2> * ♦♦♦
“O-Twit”: Ten miles from Adelaide,
at the foot of a hill on the main south
road, three service-stations operate side
by side. Adjoining them is a fourth
almost completed. There is none on
the mile-long hill, but on the next seven
miles of highway, bordering land re-
served for an oil-refinery and a satellite-
town, there are another 12. This month’s
“Seasider” reports the proposed sites of
eight more, four of them already under
construction, on this section of the high-
way. A few miles further on, two of the
nine stations in two neighboring towns
have closed because of insufficient sales!
PYRAMIDAL MILK
“The pyramid carton for milk, in use in 32
countries, was instituted in Sydney last week.”
Inspired by some Picasso cow
Milk is going cubist now,
Packaged in a pyramid
With a corner for a lid
And a hint it’s hard to miss
Of deserts where no water is.
Still, don’t let the butcher make
This a precedent for a steak;
If the prices are increased
Let it not be from a beast
That acquired its mighty frame in
Days and fields of Tutankhamen!
No such protests can be heard
Over eggs: whatever bird,
Shelley’s lark or ,Sinbad’s roc,
May have laid the Egg Board stock,
Excavators of the shell
Fear the feathered Pharaoh’s spell!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T’ve been to a Beat party, thrown
at our place by my backward
first-year varsity son. Mrs. V. spent a
tenner on eats and I spent two exhaust-
ing hours disarming bottle-bearing
young gentlemen who seemingly had no
faith in the old-fashioned niner I had
provided. As befitted senile parents, we
spent most of the night at the home of
Jonesy, a commiserating neighbor, with
spasmodic police-visits to our own
roofstead. Right to the small hours, till
Jonesy and I repaired the omission, the
niner remained untouched, as did Mrs.
V’s gargantuan spread of eats. Snooping
glances into the darkened lounge-roOm
showed us the guests, the wholly mixed-
sex 46 of ’em, reclining on their backs,
at chaste intervals, with their feet to
the fire, and listening to lugubrious wail-
ing from a radiogram in the corner.
Nothing else seemed to happen. I was
surprised when my no-hoper told me
next morning that he and his friends
reckoned it was one of the best parties
they had attended.—“Vingter.”
* * *
“Mac”: Recipient of new Queen’s
and Regimental Colors at Toowoomba
(Q.) Showground, the 25th Infantry
Battalion (Darling Downs
Regiment) has a history reach-
ing back to the turn of the
century. It distinguished itself
in both World Wars. Members
have won 151 decorations, in-
cluding two Victoria Crosses,
22 Military Crosses, 17 Dis-
tinguished Conduct Medals
and 97 Military Medals.
*
“Tom Trout”: Nemesis in
Spain. A mate of mine,
affected by a week’s intake of
vino tinto and dancing in the
streets during the annual festi-
val at Pamplona, unknowingly
let a foot descend onto the
grass verge of the main square.
Before he could change course
the Law descended, receipt-
book in white-gloved hand, and
demanded an immediate fine
of five pesetas—about lOd. But
before you wonder at this
apparent leniency, reflect that
the wretch was, by this fell
swoop, mulct the price of two
(2) whole bottles of wine!
* ♦> ♦>
“Ailsey”: Members of a
Newcastle (N.S.W.) bush-walk-
ing club, out all day on skis at
Kosciusko, had a tough climb
on the homeward run to get
over a 6500 ft. peak. That was
bad enough, but they ran into
cloud, and then a C.5.1.R.0.
plane came over, seeded the
clouds, and down came snow,
sleet and rain on the party.
❖ * ♦>
“Jock”: N.S.W. Education
Department’s policy on even-
ing colleges is: “If an enrolment of
20 is in sight, we’ll start a class
on anything” English for New
Australians, Leaving Certificate instruc-
tion for adults who want to catch-
up on lost opportunities, public-speak-
ing, Dutch, pottery, French, flower-
making—the latest is a fishing-class at
Chatswood (Sydney) Evening College:
“Are you an expert at tying hooks,
making lures, fly-making and fixing of
rigs?” Class-members will be lectured
on “all baits, burley, types of gear—
rods, reels, lines —and the different and
varied methods of applying the
knowledge and gear to the many condi-
tions that can be encountered from
yellowtail, bream, flathead, jewfish to
sharks, and in fresh-water from perch
or bass, eels to trout.”
* ❖
“Flea”: One of Melbourne’s TV
sportscasters keeps a pub down Flinders
Street way, but his sporting-session is
sponsored by the Victorian Milk Board.
The way he ups and downs his glass
of cowjuice makes me wonder if he’s
fair dinkum —I suggest that the sponsors
demand he puts it away bottoms-up, and
then exclaim his “Yes, make mine milk”
—if he’s able.
“You can come out now—he nicked-off."
“Narumee”: Within a week pony-tails
and all-enveloping sweaters have
vanished from our suburb; now female
teenage heads have taken-on the
appearance of prize giant dahlias after
they’ve been tossed out of the judging-
tent at the end of the show ; and torsos
are acutely visible in skin-tight cardigans
over skin with two or more of the top
buttons undone chillily to the springlike
and Arctic winds. Because of the Bardot
film.
❖ *X* ❖
“Dorian”: I was suffering the morn-
ing bus-ride to Sydney. When we got
to Naremburn, roughly half-way, this
little chap bounced in and plonked
himself down beside me; about 10,
wearing those dreadful luminous socks ;
besides, he had cleverly managed to
sit on half of my coat . . . the bus
lumbered on for a few stops, and sud-
denly he spoke: “What does ‘knock it
off’ mean?” I said, “Well, it means
shut-up.” Silence for a quarter of a
mile. Then: “Are you sure that’s all
it means, because one of me mates told
me it meant something different?” “No,
that’s what it means.” Then: “But are
you sure?” (Genuine bewilderment).
Suddenly I had it: “Well, it means
REVIEW OF A RECENT
ANTHOLOGY OF AUSTRALIAN
POETRY
Two-toothed Miss Oxley-Prendergast
said to Mrs. Doodle Montgomery,
Dear, that sponge-cake was out of this
world.
It was at the annual fete of the Literary
Guild.
Mine always go down in the middle,
she said.
How, said sweet little Miss Prendergast,
blushing like the proverbial lily,
do you
Do it, dear Mrs. Montgomery ? Do it,
my dear,
Cried Mrs. M. as she settled herself into
the mahogany sofa, why, mix it,
that’s all. And
Throw in an egg. But dearest Miss
Oxley-Prendergast,
Allow me to congratulate you on these
creamy eclairs.
They are simply scrumdelunctious. I am
going to eat
Just two more. Ladies, ladies, interposed
the captive icthyologist, beaming,
and doglike
Lifting his teacup with the antique two-
way
Toothbrush moustache polishing con-
trivance, Pray, dear ladies,
Let me press you to just one more
teeny, teeny image ?
The metaphors, I regret to say, are soggy
and there’s
Water in the similes, but if we
Open our mouths and close our eyes
there’s no telling what Bob will
send us.
Oh ! said Sam the sanitary man,
Rumbling by in his elegant van,
They’re at it again. Giddup, you
worn-out old
Sawn-off horse-face.
S.A.
BRIAN ELLIOTT.


steal.” Three more stops. “Is it wrong
to steal?” “Of course it is. You’re not
going to steal something, are you?” He
said, hastily, “No. It’s a golden rule,
‘They shalt not steal,’ isn’t it?” I agreed.
We were at North Sydney now. “What’s
the time?” he asked. “Oh, about five to
nine,” I said. The bus stopped. “Do
you think I can get to Redfern Public
School at nine-thirty? he said. Yes,
I tola him. So he zipped off the bus,
and the last I saw of him he was standing
in his luminous green socks waiting to
cross the road.
“Murray Swagman”: An A.B.C. news-
broadcast stated that President Eisen-
hower, visiting the Queen at Balmoral,
“Well have to get a double-adaptor."
had become the first U.S. President to
enter Scotland. If this is correct, and
I query it, it is only just. I was on leave
in Carlisle, eight miles south of the
border, in March, 1919, when President
Woodrow Wilson visited the town. Some
of his people had come from there ; I
think it was his grandmother’s family.
I always had the idea that he was taken
across the border to visit the famous
Gretna Green Blacksmith’s shop, of
runaway-marriage fame, but I am sure
he was in Carlisle ; I saw him there.
♦j+ ♦j*
“Rainbow”: The hard-bitten bushies,
timbergetters, etc., doing a job at our
place were joined at lunch by the
inevitable very small boy and even
smaller packet of sandwiches. Opening
his lunch, the boy asked “Has anyone
said Grace yet?” There was an instant
of silence and then a great roar. But
they invited him to say it, and he did.
* * *
“1.W.5.”: Pierre Daninos, in his book
Major Thompson Lives in France, speaks
G f “the phrase so dear to the English—
‘l’m a fraid’,” saying that if a wife, who
has j ust seen her husband off to the
office, has to answer a telephone-call
for him, she will answer, “I’m afraid
he’s out.” Listening to an interview on
the A.B.C. I heard a visiting English-
woman, in answer to the question, “Have
conditions changed much in the last ten
years in.your line of work,” say “I’m
afraid they have, and for the better.”
* * *
“P.O.MC.”: “Wear green and you’ll
wear black - (B 2 3/9/’59)? Well, in
horseracing green does seem unlucky—
r j noticed that racing . co i ors in
" nredom, nates Hike saddle-
, !u\r 8 ?? predominates (like saddle
cloth No. 7) are carried by comparatively
few winners. A relative of mine, whose
.. .. ereen » was bv and
livery was ail green, was, oy ana
large, more often fortune’s victim than
favorite; and he owned some good ones,
including Valicare and Freedom. Vali-
care (as . a three . year . old pro bably the
fastest filly Australians ever saw) had her
bear t broken while still a four-year-old
by Windbag, a top-class stayer, who
actually raced neck-and-neck with her
for the final six furlongs of a mile to
pip her on the post by inches. Valicare
never won again. Another, Ecarte, first
horse in Australia to be tubed, won
hurdle - races afterwards but would
have been a champion stayer but for
suddenly developing a wind-defection as
a young horse. Contrariwise, this owner’s
wife, whose colors were “all red” (the
superstitious swear by red) won an
astonishing number of valuable races
with comparatively few horses.
♦Jt <s► v
“Flea”: They stood right behind the
goalposts at Melbourne Cricket Ground,
eight of them, all dyed-in-the-wool
Essendon supporters. Every time the
Bombers goaled they held up huge
lettered cards, and as each letter was
displayed the supporters shouted it out:
“E-S-S-E-N-D-O-N! ” finishing with a
hearty “Essiden !” No wonder the New
Australians get bushed.
SOUND ADVICE
“In his A Man Fur Every Woman, a best-
seller which tells women how to catch a
husband, Dr. Richard Klemer advises that a
smile —‘forced, if necessary’—is more important
than a good figure. He warns against wearing
expensive clothes, and advocates the ‘gracious
self-sacrifice which will permit him / to do most
of the talking.’ ”
Any fellow you’ll scare-off
By frown that won’t wear off —•
No man wants to look
Every day, every hour,
On a cream skin turned sour.
If your man you would hook,
You must either be grinning
Or wear smile that’s winning
{Even though this may hurt you /)
For smiling’s a virtue,
And very much better
Than filling a sweater —
Just look in your book !
If you aim at impressing,
Do watch how you’re dressing —
Wear any old rag.
Regard it as gainful
Far more than as painful
To look like a bag.
Silks that make you look nifty
Proclaim you’re unthrifty.
Disaster you’re courting
If furs you are sporting.
You’ll land him more surely,
I’m sure, if how poorly
You’re clobbered you brag.
When a hubby you’re seeking,
Clamp-down on your speaking;
To keep up a roar
Of verbiage is fatal —
Your prospective mate’ll
Shy off you. Therefore,
Bottle-up effervescence ;
Accept obmutescence.
Unnatural ? Granted !
Pretend you’re enchanted.
When success crowns your trapping
Then you’ll do the yapping.
Now, give him the floor!
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


"'lT’ictorian country towns take their
* football seriously. In one, for the
week preceding an important match,
wives of married players are asked to
sleep in the spare room, girl-friends are
forbidden dates with players, the local
is policed by the committee, and a cur-
few is imposed. A girl engaged to a
potential next-season star was asked
when she was getting married. “Next
year.” “But when?” “Oh, we can’t tell
until the fixture-list is out.” —“Wyuna.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“M.E.D.”: Is “Zeyd’s” young shaver,
who gave-up work on learning of his
success in his school’s intelligence-tests
(B. 23/9/’59), in a N.S.W. public school?
I doubt it, since pupils’ results on in-
telligence-tests are among the depart-
ment’s most closely guarded secrets and
teachers aren’t free to reveal such results
to persons outside the department. This
is a sensible rule, since few can interpret
such results intelligently. It is just as
silly to regard a measurement of I.Q.
as being as accurate as a measure of
height, as to regard it as being useless.
It is a piece of information to use with
other information in assessing a pupil’s
present and potential ability to succeed
at school.
“Becks”: According to the used-car
ad. the vehicle offered had been “owned
and carefully driven by a businessman
who gave it nothing but the best of
care and maintenance since he purchased
it brand-new. It is absolutely immacu-
late. Done only a trivial mileage.”
Sounds like a bargain for someone,
especially as it and its owner must hold
the world record for a one-owner rela-
tionship. The car was described as an
1856 model.
♦I 4 <♦
“L. 8.5.”: I asked a group of Czech
Philharmonic Orchestra musicians
whether they spoke English. Apparently
they didn’t, so I tried them with a collec-
tion of foreign phrases garnered over-
seas, 1940-45. Finally, one whispered
“German!” This reminded me of a
Czech in Italy in early-1945 who claimed
to have escaped or deserted from the
German Army. Nobody quite knew
what to do with him, and he fiercely
refused to surrender his rifle. Since I
was returning to h.q. some miles back,
I was told to escort him there. We
must have presented an incongruous
sight, bumping along in a Kiwi jeep,
a determined-looking armed character in
the uniform of a German private sitting
beside an apprehensive N.Z. sergeant-
major.
❖ ❖ ❖
“lasby”: A correspondent in a
Sydney paper has made the astounding
suggestion that the custom of the father
of the bride providing the wedding-
breakfast should be abandoned and that
the cost should be shared fifty-fifty by
both fathers. A degrading suggestion,
stemming obviously from someone with
no respect at all for tradition! Any
father worthy of the name should be
“Better get the Fisheries blokes onto this —looks like a new soria prawn.”
pleased and proud to foot the bill for
his daughter’s wedding. My own
daughter is rather young, but when she
ultimately hooks herself a meal-ticket
nothing will give me greater pleasure
than to observe this fine old tradition.
By that her three brothers should
all be safely, and I hope freely, married.
❖ ❖ »>
“Parah”: “Blik” (B. 16/9/’59) is
apparently somewhat of a newcomer to
country sales ; time was when not only
cakes and sandwiches were supplied at
country clearing-sales but also a suffi-
ciency of the doings ; a keg or two, and
a few bottles of whisky with stone-ginger
and hop-beer for the womenfolk and
children. I well remember the Dad’s
clearing - sale on the North Coast
(N.S.W.) about 1912 —or at least
the morning thereof; the afternoon
is more -or - less of a blur un-
limited hop-beer, of an alcoholic strength
much greater than that sold as
soft today, didn’t often come our way,
and my brother and I really got on the
hops. The practice of supplying
alcoholic beverages at sales was for-
bidden during the 1914-18 war and was
never revived.
❖ ❖ ❖
J. E. Murphy: Anent the origin of
the Rising Sun Badge—as the writer of
the basic copy for the recruiting-
advertisement (B. 16/9/’59), I’d say,
after a deal of research, that the official
and Army version wins hands-down.
Gaunts, of London, who made the first
badges, would back me up. As a side-
light to my researches I learned that
until at least late 1945 on a chalk hill-
side near Salisbury Plain there was a
giant Rising Sun badge carved by troops
in 1917. By the by, many years ago
The Bulletin published %. par. of mine
about the origin of the emu - plumes
worn by the Light Horse regiments in
1914-19, to the effect that men of the
Queensland Mounted Infantry, sent to
the Barcaldine district during the
shearers’ strike of 1894, shot some emus
and fixed some of the tail-plumes in
their slouch-hats.
♦I 4 ♦J*
“Bo”: Doctors delivering homilies on
their patients’ arteries should not
neglect the restaurant tomato - sauce
bottle. You have a pride of snorks on
your plate, and, not wishing to inundate
them, you cautiously tilt the bottle. Nary
a dribble! So you gradually bring it to
the vertical. Still no result. The mass
of coagulated goo at the neck precludes
content-emergence without human aid.
So you tap the bottom, at first gently,
then firmly and at last savagely. Bad-
tempercdly you bang the bottle down
and tear into the sauceless snags, un-
aware that the stream has been cleared
by your last effort until, as you are
about to leave, a next-chair diner cracks-
down hard on the bottle’s stern and you
have to leap aside to avoid the en-
carmined avalanche. And the same
analogy holds there, too: that’s why you
notice a rush of blood to the navel when
a sudden jolt gets your arteries working
at full pressure again.


POLITICAL POINTS
What’s the N.S.W. Country party got
that the N.S.W. Libs, haven’t? Four new
sitting-members!
• •
At Thursday's election in Britain 1536
candidates will contest the 630 seats in
the Commons. Conservative and Labor
parties have each nominated candidates
for almost every seat and the Liberals
are trying their luck in 217. Last election
110 Liberals nominated and six were
elected; this time their real target is
about a dozen and they hope this may
give them the balance of power in a
closely contested poll.
In 1955 the Government won 42 of its
seats by fewer than 2000 votes ; 46 Labor
seats showed similar margins. The fate
of these seats will decide the election.
Labor needs to hold its own near-misses
and capture about 30 of the Conservative
borderliners to put the Macmillan
Government out.
• •
Replying to the Auditor-General’s
comment that N.S.W. transport-passen-
gers had declined by 90 million since
1956, Transport Minister Enticknap attri-
buted this to three causes: private cars,
the impact of TV, and the decentralisa-
tion of big city stores. He very conveni-
ently kept silent on the fourth—and chief
—cause: the savage increase in fares,
the introduction of which started the
landslide.
• •
Increased postal charges may back-
fire in Queensland, where some concerns
are already planning to take over letter-
deliveries, having worked-out that it may
be cheaper to pay a delivery-boy and
buy him a bike than to cough-up the new
charges. From Maryborough, it’s
reported that some firms are paying boys
for each bill or letter delivered.
Other stamp-savers include instructions
to travellers to use lighter paper and
write several orders on the one sheet;
delayed receipts sent in the same envelope
as next month’s account; no receipt for
cheque-payments.
• •
In his report on the inquiry into the
Woolbuyers’ Association ban on Goul-
burn wool-sales Mr. Justice Cook, of the
N.S.W. Industrial Commission, said he
had found the ban was completely unjus-
tified, and that the Woolbuyers’ Associa-
tion was a “combination with intent to
restrain trade” in wool. On other aspects
of his inquiry he said that he was not
satisfied that either forward buying or
buying and selling futures was detri-
mental to the grower, the industry
generally or to the community. He had
therefore dismissed these items from
consideration.
The judge said that the ban was a
danger to the orderly, reasonable and
efficient marketing of wool; it was detri-
mental to the public and he thought
legislative action should be taken to
nullify it. When the report was tabled in
the N. S. Wales Assembly last week,
Premier Cahill said his Government
would prepare legislation to outlaw the
ban.
• •
Popular British High Commissioner
Lord Carrington returns to England in
a week or two and his successor will not
arrive until next year. Meanwhile, his
deputy will carry on. Rumor-spreaders
are still suggesting that the undue delay
in making an appointment to Yarralumla
means that he'll come back as Governor-
General, but Lord C. has said that he is
returning to politics.
• •
Khrushchev showed better tact in
Peking than in the U.S., though he seemed
to be suffering from amnesia. He men-
tioned that neither Russia nor China
would ever engage in predatory wars.
But he seemed to have forgotten all
about Korea, Vietnam, Tibet, Laos and
the encroachments on Indian territory.
He even did not remind Mao that the
Red Chinese Government existed be-
cause the Soviet Union stole the captured
Japanese equipment in Manchuria, which
it held as trustee for its allies, who had
done the fighting, to enable the Reds to
establish themselves in Peking.
“’Op aboard! ’Op aboard! ’Oo’s it to be for the Summit?”
The U.N. investigation team in Laos
is having a thinner time and a better
demonstration than normally of how little
the Communists consider U.N. a prob-
lem. It is caught in the midst of a whirl
of fighting with the “rebels” announcing
loudly that they cannot guarantee its
safety if it doesn’t get out.
• •
Eddie Ward, ever the retailer of hidden
scandal, waxed almost apoplectic about
alleged dishonesty over import-licences
and McEwen’s supposed encouragement
of it. Do the names of Keane and Miss
Kelly mean anything to the indignant
reformer?
o •
Victorian Electricity Commission’s
senior finance-officers have reported in
favor of decimal coinage with the £
divided into 100 cents, and they suggest
denominations of notes for £lO, £5, £1
and 50 cents (in place of the 10s. note);
silver coins of 25 cents (55.), 10 cents
(25.), 5 cents (Is.) and 2\ cents (6d.);
and bronze coins of 2 cents (4.8 d.), 1
cent and \ cent.
They reckon the greatest saving would
be in customer-accounting, and that there
would be other savings in bill-calculat-
ing, receipting, cash-handling, recording
and processing financial data, payrolls,
expense-and-revenue analysis, creditor-
payments and stock-inventories. That
doesn’t leave much.
• •
As a pendant to Khrushchev’s visit to
China and his assertion that with the
growth of Socialism eternal peace would
come, a chorus of 230 Chinese generals
in full uniform and with gold stars up
sang “The Flag of Victory Shall Be
Planted on Formosa.” Apparently Mao
has run out of doves ; none were released
to climax this performance.


There have been several rumors about
the future of Metropolitan Cement, but
so far there’s nothing concrete.
• •
Will N.S.W. have an ombud? In the
Macquarie Street Assembly last month
Reg Connor, M.L.A. for Wollongong-
Kembla, asked Health Minister Sheahan
whether the Government would investi-
gate the powers and duties of ombuds
and their “applicability in appropriate
instances in this State.” Sheahan
admitted his ignorance on the subject
of ombuds, but agreed to refer the sug-
gestion to the Attorney-General. Om-
buds, Connor explained, are a Scan-
dinavian institution. They are public
champions “specifically vested with
power to investigate hardship inflicted
upon citizens by the abnormal operation
of courts of law.”
9 •
Judge Fraser, chairman of the Vic.
Licensing Court, home from an overseas
tour looking at how they do it elsewhere,
is saying nothing until his report goes to
Cabinet. Before he went abroad he
said he wanted to see how middle- and
lower-class hotels catered for the public
and what they charged for differing
standards—not to mention seeing his son
help to bring back the Davis Cup.
• •
In 1948 a Liberal M.H.R. proposed
that pension-increases should be made
retrospective to the day the Budget was
brought down ; the Labor Government
successfully opposed it. This year a
Labor M.H.R. proposed that pension-
increases should be made retrospective
to July 1 ; the Liberal-Country party
defeated the proposal. The inconsistency
doesn’t reflect much credit on either side
in politics. When a Budget provides for
increased payments of any kind it does
so on the basis of a fixed commencing-
date. To alter this means additional
expenditure which must be justified on
sounder grounds than emotion or vote-
catching.
Views on retrospectivity of pensions
apparently depend on whether a party
is in office or opposition. But on the
retrospective principle for Parliamentary
salaries there’s remarkable unanimity
between ins and outs.
o •
Recommending the formation of a
single authority to administer all govern-
mental and semi-govemmental activities
in the Sydney metropolitan area a local-
government committee’s report says that
“at the moment Sydney is not controlled
by the people of the metropolis, but in
a very large measure by the people of
the State.” That’s rather strange. Most
people in the country are of the opinion
that the whole State is governed by the
people of Sydney.
• •
Henry Barwell, Premier of South Aus-
tralia, 1920-24, who died in Adelaide last
week at 82, will be remembered for at
least two things his unfortunate
advocacy of colored labor for the
Northern Territory and his importation
from America of dynamic W. A. Webb,
who, as Railways Commissioner,
modernised the S.A. railways. Among
the features of the modernisation were
S.A'.’s first rail-motors. These were
equipped with a raucous hooter for use
as a warning when approaching level-
crossings, and the rail-motors hadn’t
been in use a fortnight before they were
given the nickname that stuck for years
—Barwell’s Bulls.
• •
Askin, Leader of the Opposition, says
Cahill’s new amendments to industrial
law represent “intimidation in the worst
form.” They actually represent com-
pulsion in a worse form than straight-
out compulsion compulsion exercised
by uninhibited Labor secretaries with
the power to declare “black” industries,
employers, goods, and unionists who
fail to surrender to them their free will
as men and their consciences as electors.
• •
The next Commonwealth - census will
be held in 1961. This will be a return
to the pattern observed between 1881
and 1921 of taking a count of the people
every ten years. The sequence was inter-
rupted when, on grounds of economy,
the 1931 census was postponed until
1933. Had the war not intervened the
pattern would probably have been re-
sumed in 1941 ; as it was, no count was
taken until 1947 —the gap of 14 years
being the longest intercensal period since
the regular count was instituted. Rapid
population-growth due to post-war immi-
gration made it advisable to have another
stocktaking in 1954, but the decennial
census will probably be reverted to after
1961.
• •
TV doesn’t keep ’em home from one
thing at least —Royal Shows. Despite
one awful day that knocked the attend-
ance by an estimated 60,000, Melbourne’s
ended just short of last year’s total of
660,000 paying customers.
Space is becoming short at Flemington,
and the old ideal of having everybody
in on the ground-floor for everything
may have to' be by-passed, with new
building going upwards.
Parts of this year’s Show may have a
longer life. Officials were pleasantly
surprised by the insistence of an English
businessman that sections of it should be
taken round the Pacific, from Indonesia
to South America.
• •
Brisbane is planning Australia’s first
origin-and-destination survey to gather
information for its long-promised town-
plan. Investigators will go door-knock-
ing at 5 per cent, of the city’s dwellings
to ask enough questions to fill a matric.-
exam paper. Householders will be asked
sex, age, occupation, birthplace, and
number of years’ Brisbane residence of
every inmate of the dwelling; details
of all trips made by household-members
on the previous day ; the origin of each
trip, starting-time, arrival-time and pur-
pose. If by car, the professional sticky-
beaks will want to know its licence-
number, traffic-points passed, type of
parking and where parked ; if by public
transport, whether diesel-bus or trolly.
Finally the investigators will want to
know whether the dwelling is a private
house or flat, what its weekly rent is
and the date it was bqilt. Vehicle-owners
will be asked type, make and model of
vehicle, and the purpose for which it
it used.
o •
It isn’t often an M.P. admits himself
guilty of crime, but Kevin Ellis, Liberal
M.L.A. for Coogee, did so during the
debate in the N.S.W. Assembly on the
Filled Milk Bill. He claimed that in
seeking to protect the dairy industry the
bill went too far because “it not only
prohibits the manufacture of filled milk
for commercial purposes, but also pro-
hibits its manufacture absolutely.” He
then confessed that for the past two
years he had “manufactured in my own
home filled milk for my personal con-
sumption.” Under the bill, he claimed,
he would now be a criminal and an
inspector would be empowered to enter
his home, search his refrigerator, prose-
cute him, “and if I am found guilty I
shall be fined £100.”
Ellis’s case is that since having a
coronary occlusion he has, on medical
advice, avoided butter, milk, cream and
all animal fats and has made his own
filled milk. The bill makes no exception
to cover his and other cases of coronary
victims—he claims there are six others
beside himself in the N.S.W. Parliament.
• •
The Labor line of talk at the Lismore
by-election which blatantly told the
people of Lismore that the city could
expect a bigger handout from the public
purse if it returned a Government mem-
ber than if it stuck to the Opposition
was nothing new in tactics. It was used
in Albury in 1953 in an attempt to per-
suade the people of the border city to
replace their Liberal M.L.A. with former
Minister Frank Finnan, whose Darling-
hurst seat had been abolished. The
argument used was “Look at Wagga. It
has a Labor member and he sees that
public works are undertaken in his elec-
torate. Elect a Labor man and you’ll
be in the swim, too.” Albury refused
the bribe.
• •
Queensland Central Executive of the
A.L.P. has begun planning its campaign
for next year’s State election. It is send-
ing three Parliamentarians through
politically important areas to lay the
foundations of an electoral machine.
Q.C.E.-secretary Schmella says the cam-
paign will feature full co-operation be-
tween the Parliamentary party, A.L.P.
officials, affiliated unions, branch mem-
bers and the Q.C.E. Labor will need
all of them to win a majority of the
redistributed electorates.


Personal
ITEMS
Indian economist Dr. V. K. R. V. Rao,
who has come to Australia as Dyason
Memorial lecturer for 1959, is
founder and rector of the Delhi School
of Economics. For four years he was
chairman of the United Nations sub-
committee on economic development.
• •
Back in Brisbane after three years’
overseas study, lan Bridge, 21-year-old
organist with a hard-earned string of
letters after his name. An L.C.T.L.
(Licentiate of Trinity College, London)
before he left, Bridge studied at the
Royal School of Church Music,
Croydon (Eng.), won his A.R.C.O.
(Associate of the Royal College of
Organists) and L.R.A.M. (Licentiate of
the Royal Academy of Music). He’s
likely to be appointed organist for
Maryborough Anglican Church.
• •
“P.L.”: Joe Gibbs, veteran member
of the Tararua Tramping Club, has cut
many tracks on the formidable range
of mountains just beyond Wellington
(N.Z.), best one of all on his 80th birthday
a few days ago. Heading a trail of
trampers of all ages, he climbed the
heights and there in song, story and
dance Joe was feted by his mountain
party. The hills echoed as Joe recited
without a stumble 18 verses of an old
ballad. He has been an inspiration in
bushcraft and mountaineering for many
years.
• •
“R.R.D.”: Tall, solid, 'smiling, John
Springhall is the same whether you meet
him in the Sydney University Regiment's
mess-tent after dinner in camp, or if
you deal him a curly question in a
coaching-course for the promotion-
exam. I know, because I’ve had him in
my syndicate—and have always been
sure that he will give a sensible, reasoned
answer that will efficiently solve the
problem. He did some good work
during the floods at Singleton in 1955
and won the M.B.E. and a lot of friends
there for this same quiet, indomitable
efficiency. John graduated in veterinary-
science at Sydney Uni. after serving with
the A.I.F. in War 11. Now he’s been
appointed lecturer in animal-husbandry
at the Queensland Veterinary School.
They’ve made a happy hit in getting him.
• - •
Now president of the Blood-horse
Breeders’ Association in Queensland,
Charles Hope runs the Cotswold Hills
thoroughbred - stud at Toowoomba,
where his recent importations include
Liberator 111. The new president
succeeds C. E. Barnes, M.H.R.
In some notes sent along in March
this year The Bulletin’s Melbourne
correspondent wrote:
Bertie Stuart Baxter Cook, who is better
known (or ought to be) to every Australian
journalist simply as 8.5.8., and his wife cele-
brated their diamond-wedding anniversary at
their suburban Melbourne home the other day.
He is still so lively that he has recently written
his Memoirs.
The Australian Journalists’ Association has
accepted Bert Cook as its founder. He was
Federal political writer for the Melbourne
“Herald” when Melbourne was the national
capital, and he interested journalists in form-
ing an Australian-wide association. He holds
the first badge issued by the association and
also the first Gold Honor Badge.
Later he was financial editor of the “Argus”
and was rewarded with success for his
prescience about tin shares; and still later, as
one of the first public-relations boys, he helped
B.S. BAXTER COOK, founder of the
Australian Journalists’ Association, and
author of the coming Bulletin serial.
to impress on the Victorian public what a
friendly show the R.A.C.V. was, and is . . .
In due course the MS. of the Memoirs
the Melbourne correspondent had thus
referred to—“ Memoirs of a Pioneer
Pressman,” by B. S. Baxter Cook (his
familiar phiz is here sketched as colleagues
know him today)—came to The Bulletin,
and, suitably illustrated, it will provide the
next Bulletin serial (beginning a fortnight
hence, in the issue of October 21). This will
be an abridgment—not the complete “Memoirs”
but chapters making altogether nine instalments,
chosen for the fascinating general-reader'
interest in their humor, their good-humored
outlook, and in particular the intimate personal-
acquaintanceship pen-portraits they give of
political and other outstanding figures in
Australian national affairs earlier in the present
century, especially those who had a hand in
the shaping and establishing of Federation —
“Billy” Hughes (for whom he worked, and,
though that was a fiery experience, whom he
distinguishes as “Billy the Great”), Andy
Fisher, Joe Cook, Deakin, Barton, George Reid,
and such others as “Bluff Old Sir John” Forrest,
Dr. Maloney and King O’Malley. There are
brightly written chapters on “A Great Indus-\
trialist,” “A Forgotten Scientist,” on various
leading editors the author has worked with,
and on the inner dealings of newspaper
transactions of one sort and another. Worth
keeping in mind, the first instalment will be
in The Bulletin of October 21.
• •
“Wyuna”: The contributed par. here
about J. Mornane’s appointment as a
Crown Prosecutor in Victoria was a bit
astray. The member of the legal corps
who, as a lieut.-col., took part in the
War Crimes trials in Japan is T. F.
Mornane, who is Victoria’s Crown
Solicitor, having succeeded to that posi-
tion on the retirement of F. G. Menzies,
brother of the P.M. The only J. Mornane
in the Law List was not admitted until
1946.
• •
“W.A.-ite”: M. S. (Bill) Nordsvan, who
has been appointed director of the
Northern Territory centenary celebra-
tions in 1960, is a grandson of John
Michael Finnerty, \yho was Resident
Magistrate and Mining Warden at Cool-
gardie and Yilgarn goldfields, and who
commanded the sth Battalion, Western
Australian Infantry Brigade, at the open-
ing of the first Commonwealth Parlia-
ment in May, 1901. The name of
Finnerty was famed in those early days.
Colonel Charles Finnerty (Nordsvan’s
great-grandfather), was military com-
mandant of the then garrison-town of
Fremantle for some years from 1856.
Another great-grandfather (on his
maternal grandmother's side) was
Captain William Oats, a Cornishman
who came to Australia in 1885 and took-
over the management of the Fraser South
mine at Southern Cross in 1888, was
elected to the Legislative Assembly in
1897 and was re-elected in 1901. Nords-
van, who served as a captain in War 11,
is a member of the Northern Territory
Administration at Darwin.
• •
Peter Michelides, Consul for Greece
in Westralia .for the past five years, has
been created an officer of the Royal
Order of the Phoenix by King Paul of
the Hellenes. He introduced the tobacco-
growing industry into Westralia, found-
ing in 1903 a cigarette- and cigar-making
factory, of which he was for many
years managing-director. Born on the
isle of Samos, he learnt a lot about
tobacco in Cairo before coming to Aus-
tralia. Before being appointed Greek
Consul he had been Consul for Russia
from 1912 until the Red Revolution,
and for France from 1914 to 1940.
He’s 81.
• •
“Pip Tok”: The Duke of Abercorn,
in Australia for the conference of the
Commonwealth Parliamentary Associa-
tion, is a member of the Senate of
Northern Ireland and also of the House
of Lords, but his main interest is his
farm in Norfolk (Eng.). While in Aus-
tralia, he's been looking into the possi-
bility of using Australian eucalypts for
a new plantation in Ulster. The oaks
which gave their name to the old city of
Derry have outlived their usefulness and


the North Ireland Government considers
that replanting would be out of the
question because oaks take so long to
mature.
0 0
Newly appointed Auditor-General for
South Australia, G. H. P. Jeffery is one
of Sir Tom Playford’s bright boys. Born
in 1907, he joined the S.A. public service
at 16 and came-up through the Irrigation
Commission, Highways, Audit and
Architect -in - Chief’s Departments. He
was chief executive-officer of the Radium
Hill job almost from the time it started
and was also Government member of
S.A.’s Public Service Board. He holds
a Diploma of Commerce from the Uni-
versity of Adelaide and is a Fellow of
the Australian Society of Accountants
and of the Institute of Management.
0 0
“Quag”: By a happy coincidence, the
Australian Medal of Agricultural Science
came to Queensland during Centenary
Year and the local branch of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Agricultural Science
celebrated with a Centenary dinner, at
which Professor J. K. Murray spoke on
agricultural development in Queensland.
A. L. Tisdall, president - elect of the
institute, presented the medal to the
joint winners, C. G.
Hughes and D. R.
L. Steindl, senior
pathologists with the
Bureau of Sugar
Experiment Stations,
who won the award
for their identifica-
tion of a virus-
disease in sugarcane.
The medallists are
much 'alike; both
graduated B.Sc.Agr.
with honors at Syd-
ney Uni. in the
1930’s and came
straight to the
bureau; both have
been on overseas study-tours and are the
authors of numerous scientific papers;
and their combined height of about
12ft. 6in. shows that neither is handi-
capped by lack of inches when there’s
cane to be inspected.
0 0
•
Guest-of-honor at this year’s Perth
Hunt Club Cup meeting was Jim
Lohoar, a veteran amateur rider who
will be 82 in December. He followed
hounds for more thaa 60 years, rode in
the Fremantle Hunt Club Cup meeting
in 1901 and was also one of Westralia’s
first polo-players.
0 0
Retiring after 50 years in Government
service, Robert Charles Buchanan, Regis-
trar of Titles and Deeds in Westralia,
started as temporary clerk, went onto
the permanent payroll three years later,
and worked his way upward till he
reached the top in 1950. During his
service .the work of the department has
grown until it now handles about
£3O-million worth of transfers and about
£29-million worth of mortgage-securities
each year. He foresees the day when
the contents of existing files must be
microfilmed to save space —but the job
of microfilming the files of half-a-
century would take 21 years!
0 0
Pat Lawlor, looking younger, happier
and more Irish than ever, called in at
The Bulletin office the other day. He
said it was 22 years since he last came to
PAT LAWLOR
Sydney—and that was five years after he
joined the staff of the paper as New
Zealand representative. The accompany-
ing sketch indicates how good he’s look-
ing these days. He said he’s still writing
occasional books. His latest, Old
Wellington Days, will be published by
Whitcombe and Tombs this month. It
contains new and important information
about Katherine Mansfield', who was born
in Wellington a few years before Lawlor
himself.
0 0
After months of solemn palaver, Mel-
bourne City Council finance-committee
has found just the man to be the new
City Treasurer: he is experienced in
municipal finance, knows the City of
Melbourne intimately and has all the
other qualifications for the job.
He is none other than the current
deputy Treasurer, Ivor Williams. A
Gallipoli veteran, and in War II staff-
officer to the Military Secretary (Briga-
dier Baxter Cox), the new keeper of the
cash has worked in the Town Hall, or
for it, for 36 years, but he still had to
apply for the job with 24 other
applicants.
• • •
Taking a spell after 40 years as chair-
man of the Australian War Memorial
Board of Management, Dr. Charles
Bean is one of the world’s leading
historians. He compiled the history of
the Ist A.I.F. and set the pattern for
various works on War 11. His successor,
Sir Edmund Herring, Victoria’s Chief
Justice and Lieutenant-Governor, was
an A.I.F. commander in War 11.
o 0
“M.T.P.”: At a historic ceremony
Ratu George Kandavulevu Thakombau,
Paramount Chief of the Fijians and
great-grandson of the Ratu Thakombau
who ceded Fiji to Britain, was formally
invested as Vunivalu and Tui Kamba.
Such a ceremony had not been held
since his great-grandfather was installed
as Vunivalu in 1853. Ratu George
Thakombau fought in the Solomon
Islands in War II and went to England
with the Victory Contingent. Later he
represented Fiji at the coronation of
Queen Elizabeth.
0 0
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, ai 62, Major-General Roy King,
C.8.E., D. 5.0., who served with the 2nd A.I.F.
in the Western Desert, Greece, Syria and New
Guinea and was later Commandant of the
Australian Staff College, G.O.C. Northern
Command (1951-52) and G.O.C. Central
Command from 1952 until he retired in 1954.
At Ballarat (Vic.), at 100, William Mont-
gomery, manager of branches of the Bank
of Australasia in Queensland and Victoria for
many years. He was bom in a tent on the
goldfields.
In Melbourne, at 57, Leslie Tuck; on the
staff of Melbourne “Herald” for more than
25 years. He served with the A.I.F. in New
Guinea and was one of the first officers of the
N.G. Press Unit.
In Melbourne, Alan Colvin, g.-m. and
director of Humes, Ltd., active in many other
Australian and overseas cos., a War I
Digger and a Legatee for 33 years.
In Melbourne, at 81, Sir Richard Linton,
former Victorian Cabinet Minister and Agent-
General. He founded the Big Brother move-
ment which brought 8000 lads from the British
Isles to Australia.
At Biggenden Hospital (Q.), Archibald
George Kirk, grazier and Hereford breeder,
who won the Military Medal in War I.
In Adelaide, at 58, Mr. Justice Frank Ernest
Piper, C.8.E., of the S.A. Supreme Court.
Son of Mr. Justice A. W. Piper and brother
of Judge H. B. Piper, he was president of
the S.A. Lawn Tennjs Association.
In Melbourne, at 60, Harold Palmer, deputy-
chairman of the Hospitals and Charities
Commission, and secretary and manager of
Prince Henry’s Hospital for 20 years.
In Brisbane, at 85, Ajnslie Nevile Templeton,
grazier, part-financier of Qantas and a
foundation-director of the Queensland Primary
Producers’ Co-operative Association, Ltd.
In Sydney, Tommy Crowle, former Austra-
lasian featherweight boxing-champion. He
won the title when he defeated Johnnie Leckie
in New Zealand, and once fought a draw
in Sydney with so good a fighter as Bobby
Blay.
At Armadale (W.A.), at 80, Walter A. B.
Haynes, retired clergyman and orchardist, and
for many years a member of the Armadale
Road Board.


ABORIGINALITIES
TTighlight of the local concert was
the bush boys’ ballet of eight
hefty men in tight bodices, frilly
little white skirts and military boots.
A paper-rose dangled from behind each
left ear, and every head sported a home-
made wig. Best wig of all was a sleek
black hairdo coiled a la Russian danseuse
in a bun on the nape of a sunburned
bull-neck. From the back of the hall
an angry voice exploded: “That bloke
with the black hair must be the one
who lopped-off my Gracie’s tail! I’ll
see him backstage in a minute!” The
audience thought this part of the show
and clapped delightedly, but when the
item was over and a fight took place
in the dressing-room it leaked out that
the premiere-“danseuse,” in his zeal to
look the part, had lopped the tail of his
neighbor’s horse and was being beaten-up
by the furious owner! —“Mismac.”
* * * *
“T.C.M.”: Passing through a coun'ry
town my wife sighted an attractive
antique - shop. I was quickly interested
by an old leather bucket riveted to a
light steel frame. The proprietress told
me it was Carbine’s bucket, made out
of part of Musket’s hide ; and Carbine
wouldn’t drink out of any other bucket
for years. She guaranteed three drinks
out of it would make a Star Kingdom
stay from midday to sunset. The price
was fashionable. I told the perfect sales-
woman that if she wrote me the bucket’s
pedigree I’d be a willing customer. With
a good-natured twinkle she assured me
her handwriting was appalling, but I
could have the bucket at a 10 per cent,
reduction without pedigree. I bought the
bucket.
* * * *
“Nor”: Among the. comments from
intrepid climbers in the visitors’ book
at the camp at Ayers Rock, Northern
Territory, I noticed: “Did not climb the
/
“I have the feeling We're being Watched.”
Rock—too Hillary 1” I agreed—l didn’t
climb it either.
* • * *
“B.”: One of the first details for
a rookie on a Wagga R.A.A.F. station
was the cleaning-up of the storeroom.
Sarge told him to be particularly careful
with a stack of mud-spattered paint-tins.
Rookie eagerly set to work, soaking the
paint-tins in a barrel of soapy water.
An hour later, Sarge came to inspect.
“There you are, Sarge, all clean and
shiny bright,” said Rookie. Sarge smiled
menacingly and asked him to pick him
out a tin of black paint. Rookie copped
kitchen-duty next time.
* * * •
“Biddy”: Into our town’s garage
walked the scruffy bagman, complete
with whiskers, bluey and a scowl: “Got
a pair of pliers, mate?” “Sure, what do
you want them for?” said the mechanic,
throwing him a pair. “Just want to pull
out an aching tooth, that’s all.” While
everyone stared, he hooked the pliers
into his mouth, and with one grunt,
pulled out a large eye-tooth! He smiled
with satisfaction, held up the monstrous
tooth for all to admire, picked up his
bluey, and proceeded on his aimless way.
* * * *
“Crow Eater”: At Royal Adelaide
Show, Ray and Rex Youd, famous axe-
men brothers of Tasmania, won a chal-
lenge match in which their crosscut was
matched against a power-saw. The cross-
cut men tore through a 50in. log with
one-fifth of a second to spare.
* * * •
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Not many homes
here have fences; the divisions between
houses and roads are usually hedges—
mostly hibiscus. The result is that every-
body takes short-cuts through everybody
else’s yard. I accepted that, but was
really puzzled about the number of
passing Fijians who took lemon-leaves
from my trees. Then they enlightened
me —they make lemon-leaf tea from
them!
• * * *
Paul Carroll: After “B.A.K.’s” nice
compliment (B. 9/ 9 / ’59) it’s hard to be
at issue with him. However, diesels are
excluded from a flooded track because
the low-slung electric-traction motors,
fitted to the bogies, are subject to water-
interference. Likewise the storage-
batteries, generators and air-conditioning
gear under the frame of modern
passenger-carriages, whether the .train be
TO NAMATJIRA
Sleep on, Ungata, sleep. The spirits of
your tribe
Weep by Kulrungga’s steep and stony
peak;
The Finke’s white gums and teatrees
sigh and sway
As church-bells toll to bless the weak
and meek.
The weak and meek . . . ’Twas you who
blazed the trail,
A giant ’midst the ashes of your land;
Painting a dream where ritual song-men
died
As tribal waters choked with drifting
sand.
’Twas you who showed us all the land
you loved,
Loved above critics’ learned jibe and
scorn ;
Amidst the dust your colors ever flowed,
The hues of evening and the glowing
morn,
The domes of Katatjuta and the blue
Of early morn by Sonders sacred peak;
The red of Karinyarri and the white
Ghost-gums that gleam beside the sandy
creek.
You shared with us the pleasure of your
art, <■
And freely gave your kin the wealth
you earned;
Amidst the ashes of your clan you toiled,
Painting by fire-light as the mulgas
burned.
Sleep well, my friend . . . The spirits of
your tribe
Grieve on with those who understood
your worth;
The bellbird calls at dawn to tell your
clan
That peace is yours at last . . . O!
Mother-earth !
AYERS ROCK.
W. E. HARNEY.


WHEN THE "PIE" WAS OPENED THE BIRDS BEGAN TO "SING"!


“I asked you to bring me a baby brother, not another sister !”
hauled by steam or diesel. And so
excluded are most steam-engines ; par-
ticularly the 4ft. 6in. power-wheel type,
where water-inhalation into low-position
cylinders, and the risk of sudden con-
traction of the low-boiler firebox
foundation-ring, can become very serious.
For the rest, the possibility of unseen
rail-spreading and ballast-washaway in-
variably decides against the plunge. But
I’ll not deny the glory of the odd ones
that have made it. In fact, I can be in
sympathy with “8.A.K.,” for my 20
years on the footplate have, together
with a sense of mechanical progress, also
induced nostalgic steam-loco memories.
* * * *
“Columba”: In her story “T.B. Test-
ing” (B. 16/9/’59) the farm-gates that
are called Frankenstein by Mary
Bishop have been known as “Methodist”
gates in our Dayboro (south-east Queens-
land) district for many years. The theory
is that no one but a Methodist could
open the fiendish contraptions without
profanity.
* * * *
“Norque”: Is that so, “Narumee” (B.
19/8/’59)? Jeans and dungarees the
difference is not structural but material.
Jean is a twilled cotton cloth (fustian)
and dungaree is a coarse calico; the
one light and the other heavy; cool
and sweaty respectively. Bibs and braces
are not restricted to dungarees. Just try
wearing overalls or a boiler-suit of that
heavy unventilated stuff on a hot day
on our western plains and ridges pulling
bore-casing, fencing, handling sheep
(drenching, dagging, mulesing, lamb-
marking, etc.). No, sir; overalls of
jean will do me and I graduated
through several weeks of intense prickly-
heat in dungarees. If I have to do my
own dhobying I choose jeans every time.
Ask a Spinifex Fonthill Beckford and
he will show you his creased jeans look-
ing natty and cool. But, dungarees?
Not in these trousers, mate!
* * v * *
“Barkis”: Depends on the inflection.
The view from the Queensland station-
veranda was plains and little else. The
new cook, fresh from the city, took a
good look and said in delighted awe:
“Not a house to be seen!”/A couple of
weeks before, her predecessor, also city-
bred, stood in the same spot and made
exactly the same remark. She, however,
sniffed plaintively when she said it, and
left by the next mail-truck.
* * * *
“0.G.”: Before Borneo had an
aerated-drink factory (B. 9/9/’59) their
lemonade came from Singapore. Trip
after trip, crates arrived with several
bottles empty and iron-bands still intact.
The factory insisted that all bottles were
full when shipped. The problem seemed
insoluble when, at 3 a.m., the third-
engineer, on deck for a breather, heard
a knock, followed by a fizzing noise.
A Chinese coal-trimmer was lying on
his back behind the crates, a hammer
and steel punch, with which he had dis-
lodged a marble-stopper, beside him, in
his mouth a copper tube, which passed
through the space between crate boards
to the inside of a half-emptied lemonade
bottle.
* * * *
“Sebak”: Rollo Gillespie’s “South.
Australian Round-up” (B. 2/ 9 / ’59) men-
tioned a “Mount Pleasant” —and added
yet another prop to my contention that
that is the most übiquitous place-name
in Australia. There is one on the fringe
of Wollongong (N.S.W.). Another,
some 30 miles farther south, overlooks
Werri Beach, Gerringong. Auburn
(Sydney) used to boast one. And Mount
Ararat might have been a more apt title
for Maitland's Mount Pleasant when the
rest of the district was beneath flood-
waters. Frank Clune mentions a spot
in Westralia of that name in his Roam-
ing Round Australia, and I’ll warrant
that Queensland, The Territory, Vic-
toria and even The Speck can weigh-in
with more than one each.
* * * *
“JJ.A.”: All through the winter I
took a short-cut through one of my
paddocks, buried in an old hat and an
old black coat. As often, as I passed,
the magpie who does her foraging in
that paddock squawked a greeting. On
the first warm spring morning I left-off
the coat and walked across in shirt-
sleeves. Mag., evidently regarding the
strange figure as an unauthorised inter-
loper, flew at me. I appreciate her
loyalty, but, dammit, she needn’t have
been so enthusiastic a protector of my
property!
* * * •
“N.S.”: In the outback everyone turns-
on the radio at the scheduled time for
transmission and receiving of telegrams.
Much curiosity was aroused at the text
of one message: “Will you marry me?”
Next day many eager listeners were dis-
appointed by the reply: “Be patient;
am writing.”
BARONGAROOK THE BULL-
FROG.
Hear the voices of the vastness speak
Out of every hidden nook :
Barongarook, Ba-rong-a-rook,
All along Barongarook Creek.
After sundown, in the silence, hear them
shout,i
The trebles and tfyp basses
Storming down the stilly places —
All the frogs in heathendom are out!
Hear the amorous syncopation. Hark
To the downbeat of the drums,
Underneath the river-gums
Lover calls to lover in the dark.
You can hear them, any evening of the
week,
Hailing heaven, by hook or crook,
Barongarook, Ba-rong-a-rook,
All along Barongarook Creek.
victoria.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


\X / Then I called to deliver planting-
’ ~ material to a New Australian
(Dutch) he asked if I knew “Mr. John
Smith bloody, who lived up on the
river?” At my puzzled nod of assent
he said: “Good you dell ’eem his gattle
are here in my garden bloody, and to
gome and get demout, or I’ll have to
dake him to the Court House bloody.”
Quite a new angle on our great adjective.
—“M. B.”
* * * *
“Durian”: As a Malayan old-timer,
I suggest to “Q. Ree” (B. 16/9/’59)
that tropic sun —certainly around sea-
level—is not as strong a sun-tanner as
in latitudes around 30. Beach-lizarding
on leaves taught us that we bronzed
better at Portsea (Vic.) than at Sydney’s
Manly, while Magnetic Island was weak
help. We thought the operative word
was humidity. As a kid I took the
wagonette into Balranald to fetch our
cook, Ah Hing, just back from his
second Hong Kong holiday in 20 years.
As he resolutely sat, hat in lap, braving
the January sun I asked him why. He
replied in effect that he wished to get
sunburnt because on his previous return
from China the station-hands had com-
mented disparagingly on his peaches-
and-cream complexion!
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Before flummoxed ex-
Malayan jungle-wallahs start .rifling
their Wilkinson s to no avail, “R.S.M.’s”
Pohon (B. 16/9/’59) is Javanese and not
Malay for tree. Poko is, of course, the
Malay word.
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: Brother decided to start
killing his own meat, so he invested in
a few sheep at £3 a head. He averaged
30s. for the skins, and as a full sheep
was too much for his own use he sold
half-a-sheep to the butcher for 275.,
which gave him half-a-sheep for 3s.
Neighbor kills his own, too, and lately
took to some lambs. The skins realised
455. each, and as the rest of the lambs
brought only 755. in the saleyards the
lamb worked-out at about Bd. a pound.
As lamb costs a few pence more than
this in the butchers’ shops, it would
appear that part of the community, at
least, is still on the sheep’s back.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A feature of Aus-
tralian, and particularly Western Aus-
tralian, flora is the way different species
are confined to certain, often very
restricted, areas. An example frequently
quoted is the Qualup-bell, which occurs
naturally only in a very small area in
sou’-Westralia, but some eucalypts are
similarly confined, some being restricted
to a few acres. This is well illustrated in
Perth’s famous King’s Park. At Mt.
Eliza, the park’s mount, the limits are
often clear. Jarrah and banksia prefer
deep sand, and where this occurs they
dominate the other flora which is also
distinctive and associated with that type
of country; and on the limestone-
country you get tuart, together with its
associated plants. In each case the
animal-life differs in some respects. This
association of plants with certain soils
and types of country is so fixed that now
many species of Westralian plants are
practically restricted to' small areas of
King’s Park.
* * * *
“Kelvin”: “W.P.T.’s” swagman who
threatened to liberate his matchbox-
confined ticks among the stingy squatter’s
stock (B. 26/8/’59) had a parallel in the
sundowner who would extort a drink
from Bung by casually producing a
matchbox, saying it contained his pet
termites and drawing a graphic word-
picture of the ravages they would make
on a wooden pub if they were to escape.
When I was a youngster in s.-w. Queens-
land the bagman who, seeking handouts
at squattages, casually played catches
with a box of wax-matches, was not
unknown, and possibly he was the factual
basis of the tactics on which those others
based theirs. In actuality, a match
lighted and dropped when the grass was
dry and long was a risk against which
the old-time squatters insured by the
"It's those damned pants!"
system of handouts listed on the books
as “travellers’ rations,” although the
system was, officially, an unwritten clause
in unwritten awards, designed to ensure
the availability of labor just when the
squatter wanted it.
* * * *
“Lillydale”: At the Wentworth con-
fluence of the Murray and Darling
Rivers immaculately-laundered pelicans
in dozens swam, perched or flew for our
cameras. On the S.A. border, while
Agriculture Department guards con-
fiscated our Mildura navels, a score of
emus nonchalantly bobbed in a roadside-
paddock, but photographically played
hard-to-get. At Inman Valley my young
BuLLETiN-reading, bird-watching nephew
ornithologically rapped my knuckles
about bronzewing-pigeons (of which I
had written in B. 9/9/’59). Phaps chal-
coptera, he chided me, do not clatter
in flight, as wongas do, but whirr.
moved our stand of Italian bees
into a cocky’s joint down near the
border. It was a falling-down kind of
a farm, mostly, the agriculturist turning
over the fallow and mending fences
mainly in the township’s two pubs, 40
miles away.
However, we’re sticklers for the right
relationship betwixt farmer and bee-
herder, so when a wild-eyed kid rushed
over from the cottage one hot afternoon
with the dire news that “Dad’s bin stung
be a bee an’ he’s out to it!” we shut-
down the motor of the extractor, leaped
on to the truck and raced back with the
kid.
His old man was sprawled-out half-
way between the gate and the farmhouse.
It appeared he’d been opening the rickety
gate when the bee hit him, and he’d col-
lapsed before he could make the veranda.
We gave one glance at his purple, swollen
face, and, forgetting time, wages and
expense, scruffed him into the back of
the truck and took-off for the distant
town and a doctor.
All the way in we were puzzled.
Naturally, we hadn’t put our bees down
near water or roadways, or homestead.
How was it, then, that one of them
had stung him three-quarters of a mile
away from the yard? We were still
wrestling the knotty problem hours later
when once again we pulled-up at the
gate.
The cocky got out, struggled the
squealing gate open, then made a swipe
at his cheek. Second sting for the day!
Then a great light shone for my mate.
He drove the truck through, got out,
leaned against it and thoughtfully sur-
veyed the old yellow-box trees sprawled
along the fenceline. Sure enough, there in
a limb of the third tree back was the
bush-hive, working like fury on the late-
spring flow.
My mate hopped in, hit the starter,
and remarked cheerfully: “Serve the
old coot right! Teach him to swing a
decent gate on his property.”
B-HERD.


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C, DRAPER
{Members of Brisbane Sto'ck Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegrraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887VV
Business, Robbery, Etc.
U.S.-AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL-PARTNERSHIP
[Part of an address by William J. Sebald, U.S. Ambassador
to Australia, to the American—Australian Association of Cali-
fornia on September 29.1
/Conditions which now obtain
in the Australian economy
closely parallel U.S. industrial
development and the gradual
westward retreat of the Ameri-
can frontier. Indeed, if I
recall correctly, my good friend
Premier Bolte of Victoria, dur-
ing his mission to the United
States this past spring, described
Australia as America’s western
frontier.
On August 1, the Australian
Government announced futher
steps to liberalise its import-
restrictions. In effect, the grow-
ing Australian market is now
open to dollar goods on a
non-discriminatory basis for
virtually all categories of goods.
Those restrictions which still
remain apply to imports from
every currency-area.
This latest step was far-
reaching and serves to empha-
sise the basic strength of
Australia’s foreign - exchange
position. It also underscores
the greater opportunities' for
American exporters and in-
vestors, many of whom had
begun to think of Australia
as a closed market.
I hope to demonstrate that
this is not so, and that regard-'
less of what may have been the
situation during much of the
period since the end of War
11, Australia, now, is virtually
exploding into industrial
strength. Consider, for ex-
ample, that in 1958 income
from the export of Australian
wool declined by more than
40 per cent. A decade ago
this drop would have served
a disastrous blow upon the
Australian economy. And yet,
last year, in spite of this dip,
there was no significant de-
cline in the national income.
The reasons are not diffi-
cult to find. They lie, basically,
in the spectacular growth of
industry during the past ten
years. Relatively, Australia is
now as much an “automobile”
economy as is the United
States. Production last year
was 240,000 cars, and there
is one automobile registered
for every 3.75 persons. The
ratio in the United States is
one automobile for every 2.25
persons. And within a few
“Come outside and say that!"
years the capacity of the Aus-
tralian automobile industry is
expected to reach some 325,000
units annually.
Houses and apartments are
being built at the rate of 80,000
a year.
Australia is producing over
three-million tons of steel each
year. And the price of this
steel landed in the United
States is 10-20 per cent, lower
than the price of equivalent
steel. manufactured in this
country. Thus, our West Coast
is becoming an importer of
Australian steel products.
jnUE have heard a great deal
* ’ recently about the “great
leap forward” of Communist
China. I submit that Australia’s
record is such as to make that
leap look somewhat silly, the
more so because it has been
effected in a free economy so
similar to our own and without
the tragic dislocation of human
beings to which the Chinese
Communists have so ruthlessly
resorted.
This is an exciting period
in which to be the representa-
tive of our country in Aus-
tralia. Things are on the move.
You may recall that a $52-
million petrochemical complex
is being constructed in Vic-
toria to utilise the virtually
limitless brown-coal deposits
available. These same deposits
also provide fuel for huge
thermo-electrical generating-
plants and plants manufactur-
ing gas for the Melbourne area.
I have heard this valley des-
cribed as the future “Ruhr of
Australia” a description
which might well be realistic.
Oil-refining capacity is ex-
pected to expand from
10,500,000 tons to 14,500,000
tons annually. As of now no
commercially feasible oil-
deposits have been found in
the country, but Australian,
British, and American pros-
pecting-teams are working
hard, and, like prospectors
everywhere, are optimistic that
oil will be found.
General Motors-Holden Cor-
poration is now engaged in a
$2O-million expansion program
which will boost its capacity
to 125,000 cars annually. This
wholly-owned American sub-
sidiary is the largest auto-
mobile manufacturer in the
country.
By for the most ambitious
and exciting project, however,
is the gigantic—perhaps in
California I might even say
“stupendous”—Snowy Moun-
tains hydroelectric scheme on
which the Australian Govern-
ment is currently spending
about $lOO-million each year.
When completed, it will have
cost more than $1 billion, and
will of itself have doubled the
total electrical power in Aus-
tralia.
It seems obvious that bounti-
ful opportunities for invest-
ment exist in this burgeoning
economy. Indeed, the rate of
inflow of capital in the second
half of 1958 was reported to
be almost twice as high as it
was during the same period of
the previous year. Total U.S.
investment in Australia is
estimated to exceed $750
million. This total represents
a greater investment by Ameri-
cans than that in any one
country of western Europe
except the United Kingdom.
It is greater than the total
United States investment in
India, Japan, Indonesia and
New Zealand combined.
The reasons why investors
hold Australia in such favor
are readily understandable. It
is a rich and developing
economy with an annual popu-
lation-increase of 2.5 per cent.
Australia has the fifth-highest
per capita income in the world.
With occasional exceptions, the
country is remakably free of
strikes. There is an adequate
supply of skilled labor, and the
Government’s immigration
policies—l2s,ooo new immi-
grants are expected next year
—are directed towards those
who are skilled in a trade or
profession. The immigration
policy, by the way, is a bipar-
tisan project.
At the same time, however,
we should observe that
there are pockets of Australian
opinion which have serious
reservations about the wisdom
of encouraging, or even per-
mitting, additional foreign
investment in the Australian
economy.
The line of reasoning which
I have most frequently encoun-
tered in this respect is briefly
as follows:
As foreign investment grows, the
drain on foreign reserves to cover
overseas payments soon becomes
excessive. This is especially true
of American investment, since it
had enjoyed such signal success.
Alternatively, it is said that since
American firms follow the practice
of reinvesting unusually high per-
centages of their earnings within
the country, the trend is for Ameri-
can firms to acquire control of
important sectors of the Australian
economy.
Now, it seems to me that
our experience and results
elswhere effectively dispose of
these arguments. Successful


How much of
Your Estate
will your beneficiaries get?
Specialised experience in the intricacies of
Estate Administration may well prove of con-
siderable advantage to you—and your depen-
dants. Union Trustee’s comprehensive services
-—available at moderate charges, limited by
Law—ensure fullest conservation of your assets
and continuous, competen,t control of your
Estate. Phone, write or call. There is no
charge— no obligation.
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated In Victoria) Established 1885
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States—New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Albury, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Rockhampton and Cbarleville.
UT27C
foreign investment not only
does not drain wealth from a
country, but, rather, creates
new wealth which is permanent,
regardless of what the investor
eventually does with his
original capital. I venture to
suggest, further, that reinvest-
ment of earnings should be a
source of satisfaction and
gratification. It means, in effect,
that foreign investors consider
the receiving country a sound
field for further utilisation of
capital. Capital is timid and
will remain only where its
primary function of investment
growth can be exercised.
One final point which I
would like to make is that of
the desirability of American
investors entering into partner-
ship with our Australian
friends. No all-inclusive rule
can be laid down in this regard,
as almost every investment is
based upon different considera-
tions. In an address to the
Sydney Rotary Club shortly
before my departure from
Australia, I referred to this
problem in the ' following
words:
In general . . . United States
Government officials, including my-
self, are. fully aware of the inherent
advantages that usually accrue from
ventures jointly entered into between
American firms and Australian
citizens or companies. We do what
we can to explain these advantages
to potential investors. Also, I am
sure that, in general, American firms
investing in Australia welcome the
many contributions which local
capital and know-how can make.
In short, we in government
not only favor private invest-
ment, but we recommend that
such investment, wherever
possible, be a joint venture
with Australian capital and
know-how. This, in my belief,
provides a built-in assurance
that at least some of the diffi-
cult problems of operating in
a foreign country can more
easily and satisfactorily be
surmounted with the interested
help of Australian friends and
partners.
Metropolitan Cement Mess
'T'he inglorious mess in which
Metropolitan Portland
Cement is now solidified is a
massive memorial to the days
when the Socialists were cocka-
hoop in Canberra and Sydney
and the spivs and opportunists
had the ears of the prophets of
the New Order.
The flotation of Metro-
politan Portland Cement, Ltd.,
in June, 1948, was accom-
panied by an immediate out-
burst of documented criticism,
most of which was supplied by
The Bulletin and Joe Abbott,
M.H.R. The extraordinary
background of the promoter,
Arnold S. Taylor, and his
“bug” about manufacturing
cement in the Sydney metro-
politan area (which in the end
was not put into effect); the
benevolent attitude of the
Chifley Government in allocat-
ing over a million dollars with
which to buy a secondhand
plant in the U.S.A. ; the asso-
ciation of Labor politicians and
political hangers-on with the
float; and (later) the prefer-
ences granted to the co. under
price-control regulations, were
all publicised in no uncertain
way.
The Rural Bank of N.S.W.
was not the co.’s first banker,
but perhaps it could be de-
scribed as its “original” banker.
It has financed the co.’s career
of woeful technical miscalcula-
tion and economic loss on a
scale unparalleled in Australian
banking history. The overdraft
at December 31 was £4,584,766,
against Metropolitan’s capital
of £1,004,306. It may be, as Mr.
McKerihan says, that private
banks make mistakes and no-
body ever hears about them.
But it is unlikely that any Aus-
tralian trading-bank has had
to privately bury a £4-million
overdraft, and less likely still
that one could have done so
without other people hearing
about it, and even feeling
something of the financial
effects themselves.
How much of the Metro-
politan overdraft the Rural
Bank will, in the end, have to
bury as dead is a matter for
conjecture; but the company
has clearly lost all its capital,
and it would seem to be unable
to make a profit even if depre-
ciation were not chargeable.
This has been the story even
in times of high demand for
cement, when the co. was em-
powered by N.S.W. price-
control authorities to charge
more than its competitors for
the product.
It is to be hoped that some
overseas producer can be per-
suaded to take an interest in
Metropolitan, even on a
severely written-down basis —
possibly even on the basis of
allotment of deferred shares to
the Rural Bank —but not on
some sort of special franchise
that would entitle it to
priority over the other existing
cement-companies in the matter
of railway - freights, State
Government custom or tax
advantages.
To the outsider the whole
position looks particularly
grim. To start with the plant
is in the wrong place, and
cartage of limestone from
Marulan has been extraordi-
narily costly. The plant, too,
is a scrappy outfit, based on the
old secondhand
bought from Ford (U.S A.) in
the beginning.-Whether it could
ever be operated profitably on
its present location or any*
where else - has yet to be
demonstrated.
No Government not even
the Cahill Government can
shrug-off the political implica-
tions of Metropolitan Cement,
It is too big a thing, and it
has set too hard.
F. T. Wimble
. T 78s F T . Wimble shares
A would ield £3 17s
cent, on a 15 p.c. div. basis,
and from a stoc P k o£ such un _
doubted standi it isn ,, a bad
retum in a m s arket of the
p rese nt buoyant nature,
p T wimHe and c Ltd
doubled its ord. capital in 1953
by a par issue, and after the
issue dropped its div. only from
19 p.c. to 15 p.c., so that the
new issue meaijit a handsome
increase in income to those
who took-up their rights. But


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I <3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX.” Sydney
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-2-3
406 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
that has been the only ou!-
standing capital event since the
ords. were listed in 1936.
With paid - up ordinary
capital at no more than
£254,283 now, and the prefs.
nothing out of the way at
£50,000, F. T. Wimble, as the
largest supplier of printers’
inks in Australia and New
Zealand, is obviously not
heavily capitalised.
For the term to June 30 last
disclosed profit, after providing
£12,601 for depreciation and
undisclosed taxation, was £8560
higher at £78,928, and equal to
29.5 p.c. on ord. capital (after
allowing for the prefs.’ £4000),
compared with 26.1 p.c. in the
preceding year.
Profits of the New Zealand
subsidiary, in which Wimble’s
share-interest appears at
£25,000 in the books, though
“satisfactory,” have not been
included in the parent’s profits
to date, but have been
ploughed-back “in view of pro-
jected extensions to its manu-
facturing-plants.”
Obviously a cache of undis-
closed asset-strength, the inner
reserves in this subsidiary are
supported by hidden strength
in the co.’s own freeholds,
which include the head-office
premises in Clarence Street,
Sydney, the large factory-area
at Rydalmere, and another fac-
tory in Melbourne; the co. has
distribution-centres in every
State, and does not mention
leaseholds in the accounts.
“Land and buildings (at cost
less depreciation), £351,128,”
would appear -to be a very con-
servatively valued item. And
plant at £137,247 has actually
dropped slightly in book-value
since 1957.
On book-values, net tangible
backing for the ords. figures at
525. lOd. a share. It is clearly
much better than that.
In announcing last year’s
improved results, the board
reported “a most satisfactory
increase in turnover,” and
added that an agreement had
been entered into with
Fred’k H. Levey Company,
Inc., of New York, “which will
be most beneficial to this com-
pany.”
In view of the fact that TV
had been in full blast in the
two chief States for the period
covered by the latest accounts,
it would appear that, overall,
the graphic arts have not been
seriously affected by the new
communications-medium. On
the other hand, the board’s
announcement is the most
cheerful yet, and it would
appear that, with heat-set inks
now being produced by the
company, considerable develop-
ments in rotary color-printing
in this country are possible,
which would mean expansion
in' the profitable color-ink
business for Wimble’s.
With so much of the assets
in the balance-sheet at pre-war
valuations, and so much in the
profit-and-loss account on the
post-war scale, a capital-
readjustment in favor of share-
holders before long is a distinct
possibility. The signal for this
may be the eventual settlement
of the co.’s claim against the
Commonwealth Government
over the resumption of its old
Mascot property. An item of
£40,000 appears in suspense as
a payment by the Common-
wealth in respect of this claim.
Progress is being made in
settling the long-drawn-out
business ; and it is just as well
for Wimble’s that it has the
resources as well as the patience
to sit this one out.
Assurance of Women
"jV'ATiONAL Mutual Life, one
' of Australia’s largest life-
offices, has reduced premium-
rates for policies on the lives
of women effected from
October 1 under principal types
of individual assurances. This
reduction in premiums is
warranted by mortality
statistics, which show that
women live longer than men.
The National Mutual is the
first Australian life-office to
introduce lower premium-rates
for women. It was the first
office to introduce the non-
forfeiture principle into life-
assurance.
J. Gadsden (Aust.), Ltd.
|>rofits shown by J. Gads-
den (Aust.), Ltd., includ-
ing the earnings of taken-over
Gadsden-Hughes. Ltd., showed
a fairly steady trend during the
year to June 30 at £519,850,
after providing £271,556 (up
£47,514) for depreciation and
£309,512 (down £29,218) for
taxation.
The result, which is equal to
a return of 10.5 p.c. on the
paid (ordinary) capital of
£4,742,116. was something of
a disappointment to the
market, and the shares edged-
back from 19s. 9d. to 17s. 6d.
during the week or so before
the announcement.
But the year was one of con-
solidation, both financially and
technically, and the current
term should show more of the
benefits of new plant and
streamlined manufacturing
methods, plus the growing in-
fluence of the contract for
producing Rothman cigarette-
packets.
The organisation makes cans
and packages of all kinds, and
has a tie-up with the U.S. Can
Co. that should be valuable.
As a three-year “hold” the
shares should turn-out satis-
factorily, and, in the mean-
time, a £4 10s. per cent, yield
from an 8 p.c. div. is a fair
one.
Johnson Leather
A CTiviTY in the shares of
Johnson Leather Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, continued at a brisk
level last week, with rumors
still current about negotiations
with the Continental and Asian
leather-firm of Bata. These
rumors were not confirmed in
Sydney. But the co. showed a
better profit for the year to
June 30 —-£170,392, represent-
ing a lift of £31,486 on the
1957-58 result, and equal to
10.2 p.c. on ord. capital. The
div. remains at 6 p.c. Assets
figure in the books at around
265., and the recent lift in the
hides-market should support
stock-valuations. However, the
co. admits that the business
has its difficult aspects.
The £1 ord. shares have been
fluttering around 175., after
receding to 11s. 3d. at one
point this year. Generally
speaking, the leather industry
has been a tricky game for the
past two or three years.
Bid for City Investments
AN offer for City Invest-
ments’ Brisbane freehold
brought bidders out into the
open.
L. J. Hooker, of Sydney, has
offered three Hooker ss. shares
for each two 20s. C.I. shares.
The co. owns a two-story
building in the heart of Bris-
bane. Together with the Too-
woomba freehold (estimated to
be worth £20,000), land and
buildings are shown in the
books at £61,007 (as at June
30, 1958). The offer for the
Queen-street building was
£150,000.
The B|-year lease on the
Queen-street building was
recently sold by Fostars Shoes
to Pepeeta Investments Pty.,
Ltd., for a reported £60,000.
The £1 ordinary shares,
which had been languishing
around 19s. 6d., have now
shot-up to 30s.
Weedman’s Maiden Year
"Drisbane retailer Weedman’s
maiden year was up to
prospectus expectations. A
dividend of 9 p.c. p.a. was
forecast —and paid. Profit
after tax was £13,838, repre-
senting 9.22 per cent, on capital.
Sales were reported as 22
per cent, above expectation,
and considering that a full
year’s dividend is barely
covered, costs may have risen
considerably during the. year to
return only an anticipated
profit on the increased turn-
over.
Underhill and the Markets
TTnderhill Investments
Pty., Ltd., the group of
Melbourne businessmen who
made the successful bid to
Melbourne City Council to
lease the dreary Western
Market site, have also suc-
ceeded in interesting Taylor
Woodrow, Ltd., a London co.
with 25 subsidiaries, including
some in Australia, in erecting
a £6-million office-block on it.
There is some dissatisfaction
in Melbourne with the City
Council’s handling of the lease.
In January, 1958, there were
three tenders for leasing the
site.
These were made on the
basis of a 60-year lease. Under-
hill got the option and then
asked for an extension to 66
years. The council is now
reported, on the advice of its
properties committee, to be
about to extend the lease to
99 years and to waive the
ground-rent of £45,000 a year
for three years.


SYDNEY
1
ii
m
ii3i
I|||
il
a
i
1
II
S
liii
i
ii
1
ii
mn
BJSB
LIMITED
The main business of Chevron Sydney (now under
construction in- Macleay St., Potts Point, Sydney)
will be to operate a fully air-conditioned Tourist
Centre and Hotel of international standard with
ultimate accommodation for 1,500 guests; restaurants;
public, saloon and cocktail bars; full convention
facilities, lounges, open air cafes; solarium; shopping
centre; airways terminal with booking,
information and baggage-handling
sections and ample off-street parking.
INTEREST PAID TWICE-YEARLY
free of Exchange In all Capital Cities
DEBENTURE REGISTERS
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
APPLICATIONS CAN BE ACCEPTED ONLY ON THE
PRINTED FORM ATTACHED TO THE PROSPECTUS
COPIES OF FULL PROSPECTUS WITH APPLICA-
TION FORM OBTAINABLE FROM
£2,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
. ASSET COVER .
.'TANOIBL! ASSET COVER FOR'EACH f! 00 OF
REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK IS C 165
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
The First Mortgage Deben-
ture Stock has been approved
for listing on the Stock Ex-
change in all Capital Cities.
Underwriting Brokers:
PATRICK & COMPANY, Members
of the Sydney Stock Exchange, 16
O’Connell St., Sydney. BL 5911. 50
Crown St., Wollongong. Ph. 5900.
WALTER P. HAM 8, CO., Mem-
bers of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne, 105 Queen St.,
Melbourne. MU 6551.
CORRIE & CO., Members of the
Brisbane , Stock Exchange. 400
Queen St., Brisbane. 31 2176.
WPH4O
Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange
Any Branch of the Any Branch of
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES THE ENBLISH SCOTTISH l AUSTRALIAN BANK LTD.
CUT OUT AND w Shire Registers S.
...... fit Management Pty.
PfKT NflW W Ltd., 7 Rockwall Cr.,
ruoi null Y Potts Point, Sydney
Please send me copy of Chevron Sydney
Limited prospectus with application form
attached.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE


SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Beynon Play Fails
[From London]
When “The Shifting Heart”
was taken off last Saturday
after only 24 performances at
the Duke of York’s, its pro-
moters, actors and director
(Leo McKern) were puzzled
as well as disappointed at the
poor public response to it.
Though something less of
an occasion than “The Doll,”
Beynon’s play, the third-prize
winner in the London
“Observer” play-competition,
was well received by the Lon-
don critics, with only a few
voices contradicting the general
note of interest and/or
enthusiasm.
(It is interesting, if not very
encouraging to prizewinners,
that only two others of the 20
plays selected in the “Observer”
competition have so far been
produced in London, and that
one which didn’t even make
the fist is an outstanding suc-
cess. But of the three pro-
duced, two were “egghead”
efforts at the Royal Court:
Beynon’s play is the only one
yet to have got a “commercial”
presentation, and it earned the
best reviews.)
Nor could any external
factor have been called ad-
verse. The weather was good ;
the theatre was excellent and
well sited ; the play had much
publicity, and the acting was
superb. True, there is current
another play (“A Raisin in the
Sun”) on the same theme —
not, incidentally, a theme of
much attraction to the coach-
parties. Perhaps, too, audi-
ences are tiring of working-
class plays and sweatshirt
realism generally and are
returning to the airy-fairy
euphoria of ducal comedy. For
two years or more the pro-
fessional theatre here has been
as restless and fickle as
women’s fashions.
There was keen disappoint-
ment at the lack of support
by Australians living in Lon-
don. It is to be feared that
this may have been due to
social embarrassment rather
than to lack of interest. The
expatriates tend to be very
touchy about the Aussie image
of unpolished toughness and
resentful of the perpetuation
of the “brash, bashing, don’t-
care-a-damn-for-anyone Aussie
temperament.” TTie general
mien of the population is not,
they protest, as low as theatri-
cal exports suggest, with cane-
cutters on the lay-off, unpleas-
ant neighbors throwing stink-
ing fish into each other’s
gardens, and larrikins beating-
up New Australians.
Hopeful Footnote: A Syd-
ney paper reported last Sun-
day that “American pro-
ducers Bowden and Bullock
are negotiating to take Sir
Laurence Olivier’s production
of [Beynon’s] play to Broad-
way.”
Krips and Erlih
The gorgeous orchestral
colors and wildly passionate
outbursts of Richard Strauss’s
tone-poem “Don Juan” were
brought out in a veritable
welter of sound by Viennese
conductor Joseph Krips to
open his concert with the Syd-
ney Symphony Orchestra at
the Town Hall.
Although the poem which
inspired the score depicts the
Don as more idealist than
libertine, Strauss, in two of the
three themes he used, still made
the hero a woman-chaser
whose blood is constantly on
the boil. Except in the episode
describing the Don’s longing—
with the oboe singing softly—
Krips drove his forces along
relentlessly; especially effec-
tive in the final theme was the
majestically-turned subject for
the horns. And in the final
bars the shudder by the Don
at his climactic disillusionment
could almost be felt.
The big work of the night
was Schubert’s Ninth Sym-
phony, and the change in
mood found Krips equally the
master. In his shaping of it
he put most emphasis on the
two components which more
than any others go to making
this work comparable with any
ever written: its lyric sublimity
and strong rhythmic im-
pulses. Outstanding features
in a reading of remarkable
penetration and verve included
the trombone-playing in the
second theme of the opening
movement; lan Wilson’s
plaintive oboe at the beginning
of the andante ; the disciplined
ebullience of horns and oboes
in the scherzo ; .the stirring
accompaniment in triplets by
the upper strings, and the
mounting of the tremendous
crescendo from the whispered
violas that climaxes the great
finale.
Young French violinist Devy
Erlih was soloist in a routine
performance of the Mendels-
sohn Violin Concerto. It kept
close to the book, but warmth
and feeling were missing from
the songful middle-movement.
At his first recital a few
nights later Erlih struck a
richer vein in the meditative
opening bars of Schumann’s
D Minor Sonata ; and later he
gave a fast and accurate
account of its whimsies and
quicksilver shiftings. The
subtleties of Debussy’s Third
Sonata he found more elusive.
The “Nigun,” from Bloch’s
suite “Baal Shem” —a true im-
provisation based on the
religious chanting of the Hasid
—was highly-spiced and sound;
Bartok’s “Rumanian Dances”
were delivered with sinew and
sinuousness; and Paganini’s
“La Campanella” was an avid
display of virtuoso wares.
In his second recital Erlih
gave a cool but not entirely
measured performance "of
Bach’s Sonata in E Minor; his
Beethoven Sonata in C Minor
was much more assured ; and
his Milhaud, Albeniz and
Stravinsky were very well done.
Raymond Lambert col-
laborated in both recitals with
his usual musicianship and
care.
❖ ❖ »>
Pro Musica
Last week, in Sydney Uni.’s
Great Hall, Professor Peart
conducted the Pro Musica
Society Choir and orchestra
through Bach’s Mass in B
Minor. The society deserves
congratulations for an honestly
conceived approach to difficult
music. But one was left won-
dering whether the choir might
not have more successfully
tackled a smaller work.
This mass is a tremendous
piece of writing, weighty and
grave in its innumerable con-
trapuntal permutations. It is
properly a concert-piece, for it
lacks the pithy economy both
of music and words which
characterises pure church-
music.
But all the Pro Musica
Choir’s enthusiasm could not
quite compensate for the short-
age of basses, the waywardness
of the first-violins and the alto-
gether too fiery trumpets which,
in that brilliant exclamation
“Cum sancto spiritu,” and
again in the “Sane t'u s,”
threatened to carve the vocal
and orchestral parts asunder
with knife-edged martial shafts.
This was a later emanation, for
in the chorus, “Et in terra pax,”
which develops into a complex
fugue, each section in turn
delighting with the mellow
rising theme, the trumpets,
after their uneasy hibernation,
come to life and put gold in
the vocal texture and here
they were quite effective.
The soloists, with the excep-
tion of Archie Hamilton, who
seemed uneasy about dynamics
and, in the soprano-tenor duet
“Koto” Dancers
The Yugoslav State Com-
pany of “Kolo” dancers
opened in Brisbane what seems
certain to be a successful tour
of Australia. Prior to curtain-
rise, one wondered how they
would compare with the other
great troupes to visit in recent
years—the Chinese and Luisillo
the Spaniard. It was soon
revealed to be an unfair com-
parison.
Like the Chinese, the “Kolo”
dancers often reach magnifi-
cence by sheer beauty of
costume and severity of setting,
but their dances are much
simpler in concept than the
Chinese mimes and the Spanish
dance-dramas. “Kolo” is not
given to storytelling ; there is
practically no development of
theme. They begin and remain
pure folk-dance, the variety
coming > from the blend of
peoples that time has welded
into the Yugoslav nation, and,
to the present viewer’s un-
tutored eyes, differences were
more noticeable in the gorgeous
display of costumes than in the
choreography and musical
rhythms.
Yet even the word choreo-
graphy seems out of place.
Wisely, little if any attempt
seems to have been made to
“renovate” these Macedonian,
Slovene and Serbian dances for
theatre presentation. The air
of the village-square or -green
still blows fresh through them,
and, for all the obvious .skill
and dexterity of the dancers,
it is the village prettiness and
gaiety of all young rustic lovers
in folklore that remains to
scent the memory.
VAL VALLIS.


For a more attractive roof line—at less cost—plan your home around
the world’s strongest
roofing material
;
i
m
i
m
■
CP
oßa
Home-builders by the thousand are turning
to a Lysaght roof because it looks smarter,
costs less and imparts the strength that steel alone
possesses. Ideally suited for the latest trends in flat
and low pitched roof design, it is absolutely unbreak-
able, completely fireproof and good for a lifetime of
service with a bare minimum of maintenance.
When you check costs, you will find that you can
enjoy really worth-while savings by choosing a
Lysaght roof. Investigate today ... see how much
money you save . . . how much beauty you gain!
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet
Prepainted
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet
•
Flat Galvanized
Steel Sheet
Galvanize
STIiL
*
Free-
low cost home
plans booklet!
Send today for this helpful new
series of practical, low cost
home designs especially pre-
pared to help budget-minded
home planners. Simply fill in
and post the coupon at right.
GI66XC
HOME
PLANS
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., B
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney
Please send, free and post free, your new set of low cost home
plans.
NAME _ - -
ADDRESS .....
STATE.


YOU WILL BE WELCOME
at the
BOWEN CENTENARY CELEBRATIONS
October 16, 1959, to April 12, 1961
CONTINUOUS PROGRAMME OF EVENTS
Write
Dr. P. R. Delamothe, 0.8. E., Bowen, N.Q.,
for details.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2 fr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
“Domine Deus,” actual nota-
tion, were all equal to the
occasion. Margaret Moore
sang beautifully—in “Laud-
amus te” she revelled in an
appropriate baroque style:
fluttery and intricately orna-
mented. One ought to mention
—and with pleasure, too —lan
Wilson’s superbly creamy oboe-
playing in the bass aria, “Et
in spiritum”; and Professor
Peart had choir, orchestra and
soloists in the palm of his
vigorous hand —at times the
sweep of his arm-movements
seemed to rival the splendid
flow of the music.
A. W.
* +:♦
“Pirates of Penzance”
At the Teachers’ College
last week Max Morris achieved
a bright production of the
Gilsullivan operetta for Sydney
University Intercollegiate G.
and S. Society, and as musical-
director won from his orches-
tra fairly good balance and
tone ; from his principles (after
a rather shaky start) some
facile humor and especi-
ally in their concerted work—
good singing; and from his
choruses clean attack, quality
and controlled weight that went
very close to professional
standards. Stage-traffic was
expertly handled.
Making' a vivacious Mabel,
Ann Carden raised a soprano of
appealing timbre; Helen
Lyons, as Ruth, pirate-maided
with aplomb and put a nice
contralto to work in explain
ing how she had messed things
up. Alan Walker cut adrift
from tradition by being a long
and lean Major-General
Stanley, instead of short and
nuggety, and backed-up a
bubbling humor with secure
patter-singing at around 150
w.p.m. The promise shown by
tenor Martin Rathbone in
“Pinafore” a few months ago
was enhanced in his singing of
the role of the pirate-appren-
tice. Tim Peken quaffed his
Pirate King’s sherry and wept
over the plight of orphans as
to the manner born ; Mike
Newman led his cops with
authority; and Terry Litch-
field gave his pirate-boss sound
immoral support.
Artbursts
From Chile
Francisco Otta, showing his
drawings, watercolors and oils
at David Jones’ gallery, Sydney,
is a Chilean artist “now on a
goodwill tour of cultural
approach throughout Austra-
lasia and the Far East.” He
had previously exhibited in
Sydney (where he has relatives)
with the Contemporary Art
Society, His work has a light
grace and charm, derives
mostly from the school of
Paris, and only occasionally,
as in some of the designs based
on cacti, says something that
is new and, presumably,
Chilean.
>!♦ *
Flowers on Silk
The exhibition of water-
colors by Margaret Coen at
the Forum Club (Sydney) con-
sists mainly of flowerpieces
painted on silk —with a few
landscapes and other water-
colors on the usual paper. The
’artist imports the silk, specially
prepared for watercolor, from
Japan. The effect, as the other
watercolors show; misses a little
of the sparkle that can be got
on paper, but has an added
softness and smoothness very
well suited to the delicate tex-
tures of flowers.
Films
“Shake Hands with the
Devil”
This strong and gripping
film, made in Ireland, is set
during “the Troubles” of
1921 ; and the soundly con-
structed story is recorded with
a stark realism to match the
best that has come out of Italy
and France. Director Michael
Anderson, while allotting most
of the argument to the rebel
cause, places squarely on both
sides the savagery that is
seemingly peculiar to civil
wars.
The film is one long chain
of tensions, admirably
mounted in black-and-white,
both „in the back-alleys of
Dublin and on the windswept
coast to which a band of rebels
are finally driven. But its
main concern, apart from
depicting the tragedy of inter-
necine war, is to put a case
of extreme fanaticism under
the microscope.
The role of the rebel-leader,
a surgeon who turns avidly
from saving' lives to taking
them, is developed with won-
derful skill by James Cagney.
Events leading to the inevit-
able compromise make it
brutally plain that this dedi-
cated patriot has become a
pathological killer. And when,
on the eve of armistice, he
furiously denounces all Irish-
men who would cease fighting,
he falls to the bullet of one
of his followers.
Cagney’s is only one, of
many distinguished perform-
ances. There is Dame Sybil
Thorndike’s proud, titled Irish-
woman who helps the rebels ;
Cyril Cusack’s finely-drawn
poet-turned-guerrilla, Michael
Redgrave’s serenely confident
rebel-general ; Don Murray’s
American medical - student
caught-up in the revolution ;
Glynis Johns’s rebel’s maid-
of-all-work; and Niall
Maginnis’s philosopher-of-few-
words fighter.
At Sydney Esquire.
• «£♦ >J*
“The Tunnel of Love”
A frank and generally
amusing lightweight on the
perils of adoptive parenthood,
becoming more perilous after
the prospective foster-father,
in his underpants and waving
a whisky-bottle, is surprised by
the prim female baby-welfare
officer. Helped by snappy
dialogue and an atmosphere
of gaiety, the main line of
comedy stems from the
welfare-lady turning-out to be
far less prim than she ,at first
appeared. Richard Widmark,
as the husband, does little to
justify his transfer from the
tough outdoors to comedy.
Doris Day is personable and
cheerful as the wife. Gig
Young is suave as a magazine-
editor whose preoccupation
with extra - marital affairs
leaves him little time for edit-
ing ; and Gia Scala, as the
welfare-lady, nicely decorates
the suburbscape.
At Sydney St. James.
“Behind the Mask”
The habit of literary doctors
sniping at their colleagues with
typewriters is carried to
hospital-administration level
in this screenplay based on a
book {The Pack ) by surgeon
John Rowan Wilson. One
‘'pack” in a great English
teaching-hospital is led by
Michael Redgrave, a surgeon
of the school which favors an
air of exaggerated hauteur and
authority, yet paradoxically
recognises that patients are
human-beings and not mere
cogs in a healing-machine.
The other, led by Niall
Maginnis, runs to the coldly
efficient —the research'men to
whom a patient is just a test-
tube with a circulatory system.
This theme, reasonably
developed, occasionally gets
side-tracked to allow the
romance-special to steam
through- on the main line. But
pace and style are. maintained
until the “human” surgeon has
to drop both scalpel and feud
when a coronary hits him —
and who but the brilliant
young surgeon about to
become his son-in-law will
take-up the cudgels* to smite
the surgical robot?
Acting is competent all
round, with Tony Britton and
Redgrave’s own daughter
Vanessa (in an impressive
film - debut) handling ( the
gentler aspects.
At Sydney Embassy.
❖ * *
“This Earth Is Mine”
Motive and character are
none too sharply outlined in
this account of the stresses and
strains of a wine-growing
dynasty in California during
the prohibition era. The plot
carries a full cargo of cliches ;
sentimentality is allowed its
head ; there is some pompous
homespun philosophising ; and
dramatic action is slow. Pro-
duction, however, is hand-
somely managed.
Competent people like
Claude Rains, as the tyrant-
patriarch, and Jean Simmons,
as an English candidate for
marriage into the exclusive
clan, have only modest scope
for their talents; and Rock
Hudson is there to make-up
the number.
At Sydney State.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Humes, Ltd.
Tncorporated in 1920, Humes, Ltd.
-*■ [then the Hume Pipe Co. (Aust.), Ltd.]
ventured the road to success by develop-
ment of the now-famous patent for
centrifugally - spun reinforced - concrete
pipes. Today the co. is the largest manu-
facturer of concrete, welded-steel and
concrete-lined pipes in the Southern
Hemisphere and controls, together with
its subsidiaries, a network of 70 factories
throughout Australia, Malaya, Singapore,
N.Z. and Fiji. The main subsidiaries
are Hume Industries (Far East), Ltd.,
Hume Industries (N.Z.), Ltd., Standard
Steel Pty. and Hume Industries (South
Seas), Ltd., Suva. In addition to turning-
out pipes and various concrete products,
the group also undertakes general
engineering work, fabricates light struc-
tural-steel used in building-construction
and has asbestos-mining interests in
South Africa and N.Z.
All cos. in the Hume group are
primarily contractors, and although sub-
stantial stocks are carried, the major
volume of business results from tenders
lodged in competition with firms carry-
ing-on similar activities. Demand for
pipes, etc., is largely governed by the
amount of finance available to Govern-
ment and semi-Government authorities
and to a lesser extent by the needs of
private enterprise.
A turnover of £9,064,808 (only £35,175
short of the previous year’s record)
helped the parent co. to absorb the higher
operating costs last term. The concrete
division was, in the main, kept reasonably
busy, though well within capacity. The
demand for steel pipes in some States
was not up to the level of the previous
year, but this was expected, and resulted
from the fact that in some fields —e.g.,
the supply of high-pressure steel pen-
stocks —there are years in which no
contracts are let in Australia—in 1957-58
contracts for the supply of penstocks,
pipes, etc., to the Hydroelectric Commis-
sion, Tasmania (Wayatinah “A” Scheme),
the S.E.C. of Victoria (Kiewa Scheme)
and the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric
Authority (Tumut TI Power Station)
were proceeded with almost to comple-
tion. On the other hand, there is now a
steadily growing demand for pre-stressed
concrete products, and although this field
is proving highly competitive, the co.
has been able to land some fairly large
contracts in Victoria, notably pre-stressed
units for Melbourne’s King Street
bridge.
The N.Z. subsidiary turned-in record
sales and profits, primarily the result of
stepped-up demand for its concrete and
earthenware products. Sales in the “Far
East” were good, but Singapore tax-rates,
stiffened by a 33y p.c. increase, made
inroads on earnings and dimmed the
otherwise bright profit-picture. Standard
Steel Pty. shouldered its way through
the term and converted the previous
year’s loss to a small but healthy profit.
During the year there was no improve-
ment in demand for asbestos-fibre. The
world-wide asbestos recession continued,
and production at the co.’s mine in
Southern Rhodesia was severely cut.
Even so, a small operating profit was
made, and installation of additional
milling-plant was effected. Thus produc-
tion of fibre can be substantially increased
should demand improve.
Last term consolidated pre-tax profit
of the Hume group as a whole remained
steady, rising by little more than 1 p.c.
to reach £1,120,891. Net profit, however,
at £640,927 (up £37,544) after tax,
£479,964 (down £22,816), and deprecia-
tion, £482,646 (up £19,091), was the
third-highest ever achieved by the group,
and represented an earning-rate on ord.
capital, after allowing for prefs., of 28.7
p.c., as against 29.9 p.c., 34.6 p.c. and
28.2 p.c. back to 1956. (Pref.. capital
is held in “A” and “B” 7+ p.c. cum.
shares, 112,500 “As” and 250,000
“Bs.”):
Parent and Subsidiaries*
r- Dividends —,
June Profit-. Pref. —Ord.——To Re- Re-
-30, 71 p.c. serves, serves, t
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1955. .705,233 27,188 174 293,125 354,920 2,590,280
Added intangibles, £355 .. .. 2,589,925
Surplus, sale assets and war
claims, £36,959 . . .. .. 2,626,884
Unexplained reduction, £78,122 .. 2,548,762
Written-off, £18,600 2,530,162
1956. .455,884 27,188 174 293,125 135,571 2,665,733
Less increase in intangibles, £1611.. 2,664,122
Surplus revaluation subsidiary assets,
£310,106 2,974,228
Doss sale assets, etc. £62,628 . . 2,911,600
Written-off, £6200 2,905,400
1957 . .584,802 27,188 16 268,000 289,614 3,195,014
Less increase in intangibles, £1864 3,193,150
Reserves capitalised, £418,169 .. 2,774,981
Surplus revaluation of shares in Hume
Holdings (N.Z.), Ltd., £124,000 2,898,981
Interests in other cos. w/off, £4900. . 2,894,081
Tax overprovided, w/back, £22,078.. 2,916,159
Written-off, £6200 2,909,959
Unexplained reduction, £123,999 . . 2,785,960
1958. .603,383 27,188 154 298,937 277,258 3,063,218
Less increase in intangibles, £69 . .'3,063,149
Surplus sale of assets, £llO9 .. 3,064,258
Written-off, £6200 3,058,058
From provision account, N.Z. sub-
sidiary, £10,833 .. .. ..3,068,891
1959. .640,927 27,188 14 299,250 314,489 3,383,380
f After deducting intangibles, etc., now £21,317.
* After deducting outside interests.
Dividends accounted for £326,438. Prefs.
received £27,188, and ords., by virtue of
a 14 p.c. distribution, took the other
£299,250. Undistributed profits, £314,489,
went to reserves, which, augmented by
a capital-gain of £llO9 from the sale
of excess assets, and £10,833 transferred
from a provision account no longer re-
quired by the N.Z. subsidiary, rose to
£3,404,697 (up £320,231).
The div.-rate, which had stood for
four years at 17y p.c., was dropped to
16 p.c. in 1957 and further reduced in
1958 to 15y p.c. But in this period
(March, ’5B) a one-for-four ord. bonus
issue lifted capital by £418,169. Three
months later ord. capital reached its
present dimension of £2,137,500 by the
issue for cash of 44,331 ords. at par to
the trustees of the co.’s superannuation
funds.
Book-values of freeholds, buildings
and plant at balance-date were well up
on the figures for the preceding year.
At '£707,113 (up £46,606), £2,376,321
(up £131,252) and £2,508,469 (up
£367,210) respectively, they reflect the
considerable expenditure undertaken by
the group in the implernentation of its
modernisation and expansion programme.
Last term saw the completion of several
major projects, amongst them the new
concrete-division factories at Westall and
Echuca in Victoria and the streamlining
and extension of productive facilities of
Standard Steel Pty. Capital works in
progress at June 30, will, if completed
as planned, cost the group a further
£210,000:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—. 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref. .. £362,500 £362,500 £362,500
Ord. .. 1,675,000 2,137,500 2,137,500
Reserves .. 3,214,398 3,084,466 3,404,697
Outside interests 893,580 896,316 896,398
Notes .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgage .. 625,620 598,340
Overdraft .. 1,103,591 514,047 832,475
Creditors .. 1,664,962 1,552,697 1,557,975
Provisions for
insurances' and
other contin-
gencies . . - 118,371 106,452
Tax provision. . 506,673 516,232 487,154
Suspense acct. 64,219 68,216 87,363
Final divs. .. 164,344 195,281 163,219
£10,649,267 £11,071,246 £11,634,073
Freehold land,
etc. .. 601,767 660,507 707,113
Buildings .. 2,112,902 2,245,069 2,376,321
Plant, fittings.. 1,995,484 2,141,259 2,508,469
Asbestos deposits 99,397 68,819 67,928
Shares in other
cos. . . 222,070 223,170 222,420
Stocks on hand 3,684,084 3,586,493 3,408,372
Debtors .. 1,799,175 2,009,165 2,139,073
Cash, etc. .. 115,004 115,516 183,060
Intangibles .. 19,384 21,248 21,317
£10,649,267 £11,071,246 £11,634,073
The group’s financial structure evinces
a notable liquidity, and this is not de-
tracted from by increased reliance on
bank-accommodation. Theoretical work-
ing-capital, although down £250,463,
assumes gigantic stature at £2,495,867.
In Australia, most of the Hume fac-
tories have capacity for additional orders,
and the continued expansion of the
national economy should see a steadily
growing demand for the co.’s products.
Extensions to water, sewerage and drain-
age systems have, so far, lagged behind
the growth of the fast-spreading capital-
cities, and with further substantial in-
creases in population forecast, a reduc-
tion in the amount spent on this type of
work seems unlikely. Further rises in
costs are expected, but management is
confident that profits will be sustained
by increasing efficiency (as against lifting
price levels). Prospects in N.Z. are
exellent, and last year’s fine performance
should be repeated. It is not anticipated
however, that sales and profits by the
“Far East” subsidiary will reach last
year’s level. Trading operations have not
been easy, and increased Singapore tax-
rates are taking their toll. Standard Steel
Pty. is making fair progress in a difficult
and fiercely competitive field.
Hume’s £1 ords. recently fetched 725.
on ’Change, and investment at this price


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
B. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. li. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
would yield 3.9 p.c. from a 14 p.c. div.
Backing for the ords. is visibly £2 11s.
Bd. in net tangibles.
Alliance Holdings, Ltd.
f~VNE of the important Sydney h.-p.
financiers, the co. came into being in
August, 1956, as a result of the merger
of interests of Alliance Acceptance Co.,
Ltd., and Portadown Discounts, Ltd.
Alliance Acceptance was floated in
1950. In 1951 operations were extended
to Melbourne, where two existing cos.
were acquired. Portadown Discounts,
formed as a private co. in 1938, was
incorporated as a public co. in 1951. It
had a large finance business in the New-
castle (N.S.W.) area, and also in the
north and north-west of N.S.W.
Alliance Holdings engages in h.-p.
financing of motor-vehicles, and of
industrial and agricultural equipment.
The co. operates branches in Sydney,
Melbourne, Newcastle and Canberra.
There are three fully-owned subsidiary
cos.: Alliance Acceptance Co., Ltd.,
Portadown Discounts, Ltd. (both
carrying-on from the pre-merger days),
and the recently - formed National
Alliance Insurance Co., Ltd.
Alliance Holdings had set sail in
not-altogether favorable weather. Alliance
Acceptance was one of the first flotations
sponsored by the ill-fated Mainguard
(Aust.) venture, and this connection had,
perhaps unwarrantedly, dampened the
initial public reaction to the merger.
Another difficulty in raising sufficient
loan-capital was strong competition for
public funds within the h.-p. industry
during the first two years of business.
This had led to restricted trading and
lower earnings in 1957-58.
In July, 1958, the capital situation was
remedied by the co. entering into a close
association with the powerful M.L.C.
Assurance.
The giant life-office took-up 4,000,000
ss. shares, giving it a 44.4 p.c! interest
in Alliance Holdings’ paid-up capital.
On formation of Alliance Holdings in
August, 1956, shareholders in Alliance
Acceptance were paid 6s. 44d. for each
of their shares, and shareholders of
Portadown Discounts 6s. 6d. a share.
The vendor-shareholders had then pur-
chased for cash ss. ords. in the new
Alliance Holdings, at Is. premium. The
whole operation involved the issue of
5,000,000 ss. shares. The difference
between application-money for the new
shares and the purchase price (44d. an
Alliance Acceptance share and 6d. a
Portadown Discounts share) was paid to
shareholders in cash on completion of
the transfers and allotment of shares.
With M.L.C.’s 4,000,000 ss. ords. (pay-
able Is. a share on application and the
balance by calls when determined) the
co.’s paid-up capital was £1,450,000 at
June 30, 1959:
Alliance Holbings, Ltd., anb Subsibiaries.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid-up capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,450,000
Calls in advance 200,000 650,000
Reserves.. .. 668,723 717,074 727,772
Debentures .. 388,200 700 J,llO, 525
Term deposits .. 2,074,837 2,763,701 4,505,501
Unearned income 636,461 713,994 1,107,286
Unexpired risks
provision .. 97,688 98,466 93,370
Creditors, pro-
visions .; 318,014 294,461 505,538
Overdraft .. 122,921 744,030 254,807
Final dividend .. 93,750 93,750 108,750
£5,650,594 £6,876,176 £10,513,549
Freeholds . . 74,713 81,087 81,571
Cars, equipment,
etc 37,678 47,341 56,904
Investments .. 18,874 17,924 19,924
H. debtors .. 5,261,342 6,427,993 10,031,263
Deposits .. 40,000 40,000
Cash . . . . 200 238 2,439
Loans to employees 3,806 3,661
Intangibles .. 257,787 257,787 277,787
£5,650,594 £6,876,176 £10,513,549
On July 1, 1959, a call of 6d. a share
was made on the M.L.C. ords., reducing
uncalled liability to 3s, 6d. a share, and
making paid capital £1,550,000.
Association of the co. with the M-L.C.
has enhanced its borrowing-capacity.
During the year ended June 30, 1959,
debentures and term-deposits increased
by £2,851,625 Jo £5,616,026. Bank-
overdraft was £489,223 down at £254,807,
but creditors and provisions were
£211,077 higher at £505,538. There was
£650,000 of calls paid in advance.'
The provision for unexp.ired risks was
down £5096 at £93,370. Unearned
income rose by £393,292 to £1,107,286,
making the total increase £470,825 since
1957.
H.-p. debtors increased correspondingly
by £3,603,270 to £10,031,263. Total
increase in outstandings since 1957 has
been £4,409,921. The increase during
the year under review must be considered
to be very satisfactory, as the national
h.-p. outstandings last year showed a
tendency to level-out and feven fall-off
slightly. This means that Alliance Hold-
ings was able to secure for itself a
greater share of the total market. Other
assets registered only slight movements,
and are not significant. Intangibles
increased by £20,000 to £277,787.
Unearned income was 11.04 p.c. of
total outstandings (as compared to 11.11
p.c. in 1958 and 12.1 p.c. in 1957), which
is quite adequate for an h.-p. co. The
ratio of debentures and deposits to share-
holders’ funds was 2.6:1, going up from
I. in 1958 and 1.3:1 in 1957, and
again a satisfactory figure. The ratio of
outstandings to paid capital was 6.8:1
at balance-date, but decreased to 6.4:1
after the 6d.-a-share call on the M.L.C.-
held stock had brought the capital up to
£1,550,000.
Although the co.’s total outstandings
increased by about 56 p.c. during the
last term, a considerable proportion of
increased business came in towards the
end of the term, and there was a marked
upswing in expenses, noticeable in most
h.-p. cos.’ accounts. Slackening of the
TV-boom and levelling-off of motor-
vehicles sales during the year were
important adverse factors. The co. also
felt the impact of the lower wool prices
through a slackening in the finance of
sales of agricultural machinery. But,
overall, net profit for the year was
£228,198 (up £1961):
Parent anb Subsibiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. ■, serves. serves.*
30, £ £ £ £
Pre-acquisition reserves and profits .. 367,116
Premium on consolidation, £250,000 617,116
Formation expenses written-off, £1560 615,556
1957. .240,667 15 p.c. = 187,500 53,167 668,723
Tax overprovision, £9614 .. .. 678,337
1958. .226,237 15 p.c. = 187,500 38,737 717,074
1959..228.198 15 p.c. = 217,500 10,698 727,772
* Subject to £277,787 intangibles at 30/6/’59.
This represents an earning-rate of 15.7
p.c. on the larger paid-up capital, com-
paring with 18.1 p.c. in 1958 and 20.0
p.c. in 1957 (adjusting for tax overpro-
vided). The dividend remained steady
at 15 p.c., but absorbed an additional
£30,000 because of the capital-increase.
Although the co'.’s profits are, on the
whole, satisfactory, and the financial
structure sound, a pronounced upswing
in disclosed earnings is needed to make
15 p.c. divs. on the steadily-growing
capital look a certainty. Last year’s 15.7
p.c. earning-rate barely covered the
£217,500 div.-cheque, leaving only
£10,698 to be transferred to reserves, com-
pared with £38,737 in 1958 and £53,167
in 1957. Reserves and undistributed
profits now total £727,772, or about 47
p.c. of paid capital (after the last call),
but are subject to £277,787 intangibles.
The net tangible backing dropped to
ss. lid. a ss. share on consolidated
figures (6s. lOd. in 1958 and 6s. Bd. in
1957).
The last sale was at 11s. a ss. ord.,
making the yield 6.8 p.c. on the basis of
a steady 15 p.c. dividend.
Publishers Holdings, Ltd.
"Publishers Holdings, Ltd., was in-
corporated in 1950 as a holding-co.
for the K. G. Murray publishing-group,
which was founded in 1936.
The first of Murray’s publications was
“Man,” followed by such titles as “Man
Junior,” “Country,” “House and Gar-
den,” “Outdoors,” “Flair,” “Sport,”
“Wheels,” “Sports Car World” and
others. In 1945 the publishing-rights for
the widely-read (if anything) American
magazines “True Story,” “True
Romance” and “Photoplay” were
obtained. Last year the group had
acquired the rights to publish the Aus-
tralian edition of “True Confessions”
from Fawcett; Publications, Inc., of
America. The co. also entered the teen-
age field with a new magazine, “Teens
Today.” The first issue appeared in


ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
36in.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of "Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
July last, and is published by
arrangement with MacFadden
Publications, Inc., of New
York.
The most recent addition to
the fold was “Building and
Decorating Materials,” a trade
bi-monthly released in Sep-
tember. The total number of
periodicals published by the
co. exceeds forty.
In 1946 the group was made
self-contained by the estab-
lishment of Kenmure Press,
the printing arm of the busi-
ness, operating a large, modern
printery at North Lidcombe,
near Sydney. The group moved
into a well-appointed, modern
head-office in Clarence Street,
Sydney, in 1958.
The most important develop-
ment in the co. last year was
outside the publishing business.
Diversification of investment
was started-off by the opening
of Sun Deck Chalet at Mt.
Kosciusko. The hotel began
operating on June 27, in time
for the skiing-rush last winter,
and is proving a successful
venture. However, its results
didn’t affect the figures for the
year under review. The
hotel’s special attractions are
a modern T-Bar ski-lift and a
smaller rope-tow. There is a
full liquor licence, and tourist
frequency should be high, both
in summer and winter seasons.
Sun Deck is strategically
located in the Perisher Valley,
the most popular skiing-ground
in the area. Until it was built,
the only public accommodation
in the vicinity was provided by
the chronically overcrowded
Chalet, operated by the N.S.W.
Government Tourist Bureau at
Charlotte Pass.
Last year the average daily
population of the valley in
winter months was 260, and
this number is rapidly increas-
ing as skiing assumes propor-
tions of a national winter sport.
Sun Deck Chalet Pty. is the
newly-formed subsidiary con-
trolling the hotel, which is
operated for it by experts from
Alpine Managements Pty.
under an agreement.
Another addition to the
co.’s interests was the forma-
tion of the Symphony Record
Club. Heavy promotional ex-
penditure had to be incurred,
resulting in an initial loss.
There is strong competition,
but the venture is being hope-
fully continued.
Last term’s overall results
were in line with the outstand-
ing business successes scored
by Publishers Holdings in the
previous years.
Gross profit from trading in-
creased by £20,491 to £173,251.
Consolidated net profit of the
group for the year ended June
30, 1959 was £6969 better at
£102,787:
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS.
June, Profit.* ,, ——Dividends Deficit.
£ £ £
1951.. 54.301 7ip.e. = 15,000]
Divs. paid by sub. cos., }- 54,830
£17,084 J
Added intangibles, £2OOO 56,830
Loss sale plant, £551 .. 57,381
1952.. 48.088 15 p.c. = 30,000 39,292
Tax overprovided, £B7 .. 39,205
Profit sale plant, £2 .. 39,203
1953.. 66.640 15 p.c. = 30,000 2,563
Reserves.]
Tax overprovided, £9227 . . 6,664
Net profit sale freehold,
£ -i q oi q
1954.. 66.867 15 p.c.’= 30,000 50^085
Tax overprovided, £4 .. 50,089
1955.-58,936 15 p.c. = 30,000 79,025
Tax underprovided, £102.. 78,923
Intangibles w/off, £2260. . . 76,663
1956.. 79.356 15 p.c. = 36,875 119,144
Tax underprovided, £55 .. 119,089
1957.. 67.539 15 p.c. = 37,500 149,128
Tax overprovided, £2558 . . 151,686
1958.. 95,818 174p.c. = 43,750 203,754
Tax overprovided, £ll5 .. 203,869
1959.102,787 20 p.c. = 50,000 256,656
* After eliminating outside shareholders’
interests, and provident fund dividend,
f Subject to intangibles, now written-out.
The result was struck, after
providing £34,197 for depreci-
ation (up £7440), setting aside
£68,464 for taxation (up
£13,522) and handing £2OOO to
trustees of the staff fund.
The div.-rate was raised from
\l\ p.c. to 20 p.c., absorbing
£6250 more at £50,000. How-
ever, the co.’s earning-rate of
41.1 p.c. on paid-up capital of
£250,000 (38.3 p.c. in 1958)
easily covered the div.-cheque,
leaving £52,787 for reserves
(now £256,656, slightly exceed-
ing the paid capital).
Adverse influence of TV in
N.S.W. and Victoria has largely
been overcome. Although cir-
culations have stabilised at a
lower average figure than some
years ago, the addition of new
titles, increase in the range of
special-purpose publications,
and improved distribution
methods have raised overall
earnings considerably.
Income from advertising
continued to grow, contribut-
ing substantially to the group’s
profits.
Paid-up capital remains at
£250,000. The last issue of
shares was in August,, 1955,
when £50,000 was put-out at
par one-for-four, bringing the
capital to its present level. In-
tangibles were written-off a
long time ago. There are no
heavy long-term liabilities and
the assets appear conservatively
valued in the consolidated
balance-sheet:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £250,000 £250,000
Reserves .. 203,754 256,656
Outside interests 2,750 2,750
Hire-purchase
creditors .. 32,735 34,118
Overdraft .. 7,040 2,071
Creditors, etc. .. 111,605 100,301
Subscriptions in
advance .. 25,347
Tax provision .. 54,942 68,464
Staff fund .. 12,075 12,075
Final div. .. 25,000 25,000
£699,901 £776,782
Freeholds .. 168,231 229,801
Plant, etc. .. 179,167 193,615
Stock 191,874 176,652
Debtors .. .. 53,509 53,086
Cash, etc. .. 107,120 123,628
£699,901 £776,782
Freeholds and leaseholds
went-up by £61,570 to £229,801
last term, and plant and
machinery by £14,448 to
£193,615 after massive depre-
ciation write-offs.
A new Buhler press (which
prints from reeled paper) was
imported from Switzerland for
Kenmure Press. The co. also
installed two Klischograph
electronic engraving-machines,
to produce printing-plates on
plastic sheets. Another addi-
tion was a Scan-a-Sizer (U.S.)
electronic engraving-machine.
Stocks declined by £15,222
to £176,652. Debtors remained
almost unchanged, while cash,
etc., increased by £16,508 to
£123,628.
Net current assets were
£120,108, making the current
ratio 1.5 to 1. Net tangible
backing works-out at 10s. 2d.
per ss. ord on the book-value.
Publishers Holdings may
not rank amongst the blue
chips on the ’Change, but
there is nothing second-rate
about its ability to bite-off and
absorb larger and larger slices
of highly competitive busi-
ness, and successfully push its
way into other fields.
The last sale of the ss. units
was made at 21s. 6d. per ss.
ord., yielding 4.7 p.c. on the
basis of the increased 20 p.c.
div.-rate.
Lithgow V alley Colliery Co.
HThe Lithgow Valley Colliery
A Co., Ltd., operates two
mechanised mines (Lithgow
Valley and Hermitage) on the
N.S.W. western coalfields near
Lithgow.
Continuous strikes (especi-
ally that in 1949) had brought
the coal-industry a notoriety
for instability and unreliability.
High coal-prices (reaching
645. 6d. a ton, f.0.r., in June,
1952), unimaginative selling-
methods and the sustained,
aggressive market-penetration
by competitive fuels, had placed
the industry in a sorry plight
by 1952.
Since then there has been
a continuous effort to adjust
to current market-require-
ments. With the assistance of
the Joint Coal Board a major
overhaul and reorganisation
was undertaken.
Mechanisation was stepped-
up (helped by tax-concessions
which classify a considerable
part of developmental expen-
diture as allowable deductions).
Numerous coal-washeries were
built,' and better selling-
techniques adopted. A vigor-
ous export-drive was launched
and maintained to compensate
for the relative decline in intra-
and inter-State coal-consump-
tion. Overseas coal - sales
increased to 786,000 tons in
1957-58 (compared with
204,000 tons in 1955-56), or
about 4 p.c. of total Australian


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
consumption, with Japan the
best buyer by far (424,000
tons).
Increased mechanical effici-
ency (output increased by 1.13
tons, or 37.8 p.c., to 4.12 tons
a man-shift worked from 1952
to 1958), and energetic cost-
control brought the prices
down to 565. sd. a ton f.o.r.
by December, 1958.
In the western coalmines,
where this co. operates, things
were more stable.
Both the co.’s mines are
efficient and have a good
industrial-peace record. Lith-
gow Valley and Hermitage
collieries are integrated for
marketing purposes. All coal
won at Lithgow Valley is
taken to Hermitage and washed
and graded according to
customers’ requirements.
Mechanisation is continuing,
and new plant, which cost
£25,612 (written-off), was in-
stalled during the year ended
June 30, 1959.
Due to the difficult market
situation, the co. decided to
pay back £75,000 of its share-
capital after balance-date in
1958, which left it with
£225,000 paid-capital, divided
into 900,000 fully-paid ss.
stock-units.
The profits-table illustrates
the ebb-and-flow of the co.’s
fortunes recently:
Re-
June Profit. r — I—Dividend 1 —Dividend . serves.
30, £ £ £
1951.. 26.712 8 p.e. = 24,000 30,687
Tax underprovided, £5OOO 25,687
1952.. 8 p.c. = 24,000 47,728
Unexplained reduction, £l3 47,715
1953.. 30.263 8 p.e. - 24,000 53,978
Unexplained reduction, £37 53,941
1954.. 15,598 8 p.c. = 24,000 45,539
1955.. 25,149 8 „ ~ 24,000 46,688
1956.. 3,029 8 „ „ 24,000 25,717
1957.. 12.641 6 „ „ 18,000 20,358
1958.. 24,300 6 „ ~18,000 26,658
Capital profits, £3512 . . 30,170
1959. .15,842 * 7* p.c. = 15,750 30,262
* On £225,000 capital.
Earnings last year from
mining operations were
£57,998, after setting aside
£6147 for depreciation. Net
profit, after providing £7838
(up £4376) for tax, was £34,454
(down £17,288), or almost 15|
p.c. on the smaller paid-capi-
tal. Of these earnings, £18,612
( plus another £7OOO previously
appropriated) was spent on
new plant and written-off
against the year’s profits. Divi-
dend was 7 p.c. on the reduced
capital (previously 6 p.c.) and
absorbed £15,750 (down
£2250).
Book-value of freeholds and
leaseholds was unchanged at
£108,921 (at 1949 independent
valuation, less £50,639 amor-
tisation to date). Plant was
shown at £45,029 (£317,682,
less £272,653 plant purchased
since 1951 and written-off).
This is an increase of £6147
over the 1958 book-figure.
Shares in other cos. were
£28,538 down at £41,195.
Total current assets were
£102,396 (down £47,530) and
current liabilities £44,964
(down £10,909).
On the book-values, current
ratio worked-out at almost 2.3
to 1, and net tangible backing
at 4s. Bd. a ss. ord. The last
sale, was below par, at 3s. 6d.
a unit, making the yield a
generous 10 p.c.
With its new, compact capi-
tal, no mortgages or other
long-term borrowings,, modern
mine - equipment and an
integrated marketing-system to
sell its washed and screened
coal, the co. may be expected
to hold its own in the hard,
competitive coal game. But
the really decisive factor is out
of Lithgow’s hands. It is the
ability of the N.S.W. coal-
industry as a whole to with-
stand inroads made in its
traditional markets by oil, Vic-
torian brown-coal and other'
competitors.
Coal-consumption by the
N.S.W. railways will continue
to fall-off as more and more
diesel-electrics are introduced
and electrification progresses.
On the other hand, the cbal
requirements of the steel and
gas industries and for elec-
tricity generation, are steadily
growing.
Over the last two years the
level of coal-consumption has
remained almost unchanged in
absolute terms, but the industry
is not getting its share of
expansion of the fuel market.
Television Broadcasters
'T’elevision Broadcasters,
Ltd. owns the ADS
Channel 7 TV-station in
Adelaide (scheduled to begin
regular full-scale programmes
on October 24, 1959). The co.
was incorporated in February,
1958, and its attractively pre-
sented first set of accounts
covers the 16-months period
to June 30, 1959. The co. was
granted official listing on the
Adelaide ’Change in April this
year. Brisk trading in shares
followed, driving the price up
from the initial 9s. Id. to
17s. lOd. per ss. unit.
TV Broadcasters enjoys a
powerful backing from news-
paper and radio - electric
interests. The main shareholder
is the Advertiser Newspapers,
Ltd. (owner of “The Adver-
tiser” and “The Chronicle” and
of 50 p.c. in the “Sunday
Mail”), which holds 40 p.c.
of the paid capital. The other
major shareholders are the
SKA Broadcasting Co., Ltd.,
Philips Electrical Industries
Pty., and Associated News-
papers, Ltd. (U.K.), publishers
of the London “Daily Mail.”
The promoters of the co.
gave an undertaking to t[ie
Federal Government, through
the Broadcasting Control
Board, that 30 p.c. of the share-
capital would be offered to
the general public.
There was an issue of
ordinary shares in February,
1959, and the public subscribed
for 900,000 f.p. ss. ords. Total
paid-up Capital of the co. at
June 30, 1959, was £750,000,
split-up into 3,000,000 ss. ord.
shares.
All plant and equipment is
now on site. The transmitter-
building, and the tower at Mt.
Lofty, are completed, and the
studios at North Adelaide are
almost finished. ADS 7 was
the first South Australian
station to begin low - power
test-transmissions on April 23
last.
In its first 16 months, ended
June 30, 1959, the co. had in-
curred a net loss of £20,265
[after charging depreciation
(£276), and paying directors’
fees (£1200)], representing
operating costs to date.
Total assets were shown at
£752,758:
TV Broadcasters, Ltd., June 80>
1959.
Paid capital .. .. ..£750,000
Sundry creditors .. .. 2,758
£752,758
Freehold, buildings .. .. 93,661
Plant, etc.' 70,948
Deposits ~ ~ 515,849
Cash 22,643
Programmes .. ' .. .. 14,436
Sundry debtors, etc... .. 1,219'
Net loss . . . . .. 20,265
Intangibles .. ... ... 13,737
£752,758
At June 30, TV Broad-
casters had £70,948 plant and
equipment (valued at cost, less
£276 depreciation). Book-
value of freehold land and
buildings was £93,661. The
rest was in TV programmes
(£14,436) and in |iquid assets
(£515,849 deposits at call,
£22,643 cash, £1219 stores and
debtors). There was £13,737
intangibles. The only liabili-
ties were sundry creditors and
accrued charges (£2758). On
the book-values, net tangible
assets backing worked out at
4s. lid. a ss. share.
Brisk demand for TV Broad-
casters shares has pushed-up
the price to 17s. lOd. a ss. unit
before the business has really
begun, and prior to any indi-
cation of what the eventual
div.-rate will be when profits
earned will warrant a dividend-
distribution to shareholders.
There are excellent prospects
for profitable development of
commercial television in S.A.,
but this should not lead one to
expect huge earnings and
massive div.-cheques in the
first few years.
High premium presently paid
for TV Broadcasters shares is
indicative of the inflated level
of “great expectations” in the
co.’s ultimate earning-power
and div.-policy, rather than of
the true value of the scrip
based on immediate profit-
prospects. Another factor
supporting the high share-price
is the fact that the quantity of
scrip available for speculation
is limited. Public holding is
30 p.c., and only a fraction of
that is changing hands on
’Change.
With these thoughts in mind,
the picture, perhaps, becomes
a little more sober. As-a long-
term, dynamic growth-stock,
TV Broadcasters appears an
inviting avenue for investment,
although not a cheap one at
17s. lOd. a ss. ord. It should
not be viewed, however, as an
automatic get - rich - cheaply
goldmine.


Divorce Notices
A DIVORCE PETITION HAS BEEN
FILED AGAINST THE UNDERMEN-
TIONED—
GEORGE WILLIAM YOUNG late of
21 Craiimer Road Winton Bournemouth
England who may apply to the Divorce
Registry Somerset House London W.C.2
for a copy of the Petition If within
three months he has not communicated
with the Registry the Court may hear
the case in his absence. —B. LONG, 9
June, 1959, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— -In Divorce.
TO DOUGLAS WILLIAM EVANS late
of Lidcombe. —TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY EVANS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2056 of 1959 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for 3 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the
21st day of December 1959 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from E. G. SAYEGH, Solicitor, 133
Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JESSIE MAIE DeLUCEY late of
172 Macpherson Street Bronte. —TAKE
NOTICE that THOMAS DeLUCEY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1479 of
1959 on the grounds of your adultery
with NORMAN THOMAS If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 22nd
October 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
G. D. CAMPBELL & CO., Solicitors, 92
Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBEIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ing". Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectue on
application to
G. A, FISHER, 8.A., B.gc.,
Headmaster.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, September 29, 1959.
'T'he N.Z. Court of Arbitra-
tion has issued a general
order increasing weekly wages
from October 12 by a maxi-
mum of 15s. 7d. for men,
11s. 9d. for women and 9s.
for juniors.
The court awarded an in-
crease of 24 per cent, on wage-
rates up to £l3 for men,
£9 15s. for women and £7 10s.
for juniors.
But from the date of the in-
crease an. order made in
October, 1956, prescribing an
18 per cent, increase on wages
up to the same limits will be
abolished.
The application, sponsored
by the Federation of Labour,
was for the current 18 per cent,
increase on the first £l3, £9 15s.
and £7 10s. of award rates to
be replaced by 34 per cent,
with all ceilings lifted to £2O.
Had the application been
granted in full there would
have been an increase of 13.7
per cent, in wages up to £2O.
In making its order the court
said that the Government
Statistician estimated that
granting the application in full
would increase the annual total
of salary and wage payments
by £76 million.
This was almost as much as
the total value of the wool-clip
for the production year 1958-
59, or about 30 p.c. of the
total value of all exports for
1958, or 23 p.c. of total central
Government expenditure for
the financial year 1958-9, or
about 8 p.c. of the national
income for the year 1958-9, or
more than 60 p.c. of the total
annual income of New Zea-
land farmers for the year
1958-9.
“Cautious Approach”
The court said: “It is in-
escapable that apart altogether
from the effects of changes in
direct taxation there has been
in general an appreciable fall-
ing-off in the purchasing-power
of wages of workers employed
at the minimum rates pre-
scribed by awards and indus-
triaL agreements.”
Since December, 1956, the
nominal weekly wage had risen
by 2 p.c., compared with an
increase of 8.6 p.c. in the price-
index during approximately the
same period.
“We are satisfied that the
state of the economy still de-
mands a cautious approach,”
the court said. “In the general
interest the legislation has
taken action which has had the
effect of reducing the standard*
of living.
“We do not think the eco-
nomic situation justifies an
attempt by the court to restore
the previous standard of living
enjoyed by workers, much less
any attempt to improve on that
former standard.
“The average annual salary-
and wage-payment for each
salary- and wage-earner has in-
creased in the last 10 years to
an extent which fully com-
pensates for the increase in the
consumers’ price-index and in
productivity.
“This means that no further
major increase in actual wage-
rates is under present circum-
stances warranted by the in-
crease in productivity.
“When a general order in-
creasing minimum rates has
been made in the past, actual
wage-rates have increased to
a greater degree, and it must
be expected that any order now
made will in general be
followed by some increases in
actual rates.”
From evidence given by the
Government Statistician it was
deduced that the effect of the
general wage-order in increas-
ing the consumers’ price-index
and the cost of N.Z.’s exports
should not exceed 2 per cent.,
the court said.
Overseas Reserves
Net overseas assets of the
New Zealand banking system
doubled in the 12 months to
September 16.
On that date assets stood
at £109.7 million, against
£54.3 million a year before and
£90.3 million two years before.
However, a call of £4.1 mil-
lion for repayment of short-
term credits in New York was
almost due.
A New York loan of £12.4
million is to be repaid in two
years’ time.
It would be unrealistic to
expect any early, dramatic
relaxation of import-control,
though there will certainly be
some easing.
In its annual report the
Reserve Bank forecast that
financial controls would be
required for some time to
come, even if export prices
should improve more.
The restoration and mainten-
ance of overseas reserves at
a far more adequate level than
in the past must be placed in
the forefront of economic
policy in the future, it said.
It was not possible to say
specifically what was the most
desirable level of overseas
reserves. Regard must be paid
to the need to' repay recent
borrowings, the chronic ten-
dency for N.Z. to over-import,
and the probability of further
fluctuations in export prices.
Surplus
During the year ended
August 31, 1959, there was a
surplus of £46,900,000 in N.Z.’s
overseas exchange transactions,
including £17,200,000 of net
official overseas borrowing.
This surplus compares with
a deficit of £39,800,000 for the
year ended August, 1958, when
net official overseas borrowing
totalled £19,100,000.
Total receipts, as compared
with those for the year ended
August, 1958, increased by
£42 million to £361,700,000.
This improvement was mainly
due to an increase of
£35,800,000 in receipts for
exports.
Payments for private imports
fell by £50,700,000, represent-
ing a decline of 19.6 p,c. as
compared with the previous
year.
An overall surplus of £4 mil-
lion was recorded for the
month of August, compared
with a deficit of £3,100,000 in
August, 1958.
Fletcher Holdings
Fletcher Holdings, Ltd.,
N.Z.’s big construction com-
pany, is launching a scheme
for the large-scale building of
factories for lease or sale.
Two areas have already
been prepared for development
in Auckland, and one at
Christchurch. Other areas are
held on option fn all the four
main centres for progressive
development as required.
Fifty new factories may be
built in Auckland within three
years at a cost approaching
£1 million.
About £350,000 may be
spent on a 19-acre develop-
ment in Christchurch.
N.Z.F.P.
The successful completion
of the first stage of New
Zealand Forest Products’ huge
£5-million expansion scheme
is near.
The second £l-million paper-
machine at Kinleith is about
to begin running. It will pro-
duce at least a ton of brown
packaging-paper an hour, and
its annual output is expected
to be from 7500 tons to
10,000 tons.
Further expansion plans are :
A third paper - machine
(£1,250,000), wallboard and re-
manufacturing-plant extensions
(£90,000), pulp - production-
plant expansion (£750,000),
new chlorine bleaching plant
(£400,000), sawmill-extension
(£250,000), and boiler-plant
additions (£250,000).
To cope with the influx of
workers and their families, the
company is building more than
100 houses this year.
Forest Products’ results for
the last year were much as
expected. With the first big
reduction in special deprecia-
tion, net profit rose 28.7 per
cent. In the last four years
the percentage earning-rate on
ordinary capital has moved
from 7.7 to 9.2, 8.2, 9.1, 11.8.
The percentage earning-rate
on shareholders’ funds has
moved as follows: 5.2, 5.8,
5.4, 5.5, 6.7. The book value
of an ordinary £1 share has
risen from 295. 3d. to 325. lOd.
This year’s ordinary dividend,
again in the form of prefer-
ence shares, is covered 2.4
times. Future dividends will
be in cash.
Forest Products’ shares
could be bought at ss. (N.Z.)
10 years ago. Today they are
priced at close to 30s. (N.Z.).


The Sailmaker’s Story
By NANCY CATO
The sea was like blue-grey
silk, so smooth that the
trails of the flying-fish
skimming over its sur-
face were marked across it
like lines of stitching. A huge,
oily swell moved from west
to east, towards the invisible
coast of Africa.
I climbed out of my sticky
deck-chair and moved to the
ship’s rail in search of cool-
ness. The sailmaker, who was
checking a rope on a lifebelt,
cut the worn and discolored
end, unlaid a fresh strand, and
began expertly to make a new
eye-splice. He looked side-
ways at me, then at the satiny
horizon, at the sky heavy with
tropical heat.
“Just the sort of day we
lost poor old Ginger,” he said
reflectively. “Not far from
here, it was.”
“What, did he go over-
board?”
“Yair; from just about
where you’re standing, too.”
He went back to his splice,
while I stared uneasily down
at the water and back at the
empty wake. He was a mariner,
long and lank and brown, but
he didn’t fix me with a glitter-
ing eye; on the contrary, he
seemed to forget my presence.
“Did you miss him at once?
Wasn’t there a search?”
“Some said we should have
gone back. But the Old Man
wasn’t going to turn a 10,000-
ton ship around just for a
blooming cat. So that was the
end of Ginger, the poor old
bastard.”
“Oh, a cat!”
“Yair. The crew said after-
wards that all the bad luck
come from losing the cat.
Though I’m not superstitious
meself.”
He tapped the rail thought-
fully with his knife, then put
it back in the pocket of
his dungarees. I waited
expectantly.
“What bad luck? How did
he fall overboard?” I
prompted.
The sailmaker seemed to
relent. “Well, old Ginger had
been a ship’s cat from when
he was only a kitten. He’d
crossed the Line dozens of
times, Ginger had, and he
should’ve known better than
to jump for the rail just then.
“He used to lie on the lee-
rail there, and watch the flying-
fish, p’raps hoping one would
come on board. I reckon he
was pretty heavy and sleepy
this day. There’d been some
awful hash for the crew’s
breakfast, and most of it went
back to the galley untouched,
so Ginger come in for a feed.
“He must’ve come up here
just as they 'were changing-
over in the wheelhouse, and
the ship gave two or three big
rolls before the new helms-
man steadied her back on
course.
“It was Bill Jones who saw
him go. He was up here
painting the taffrail, and he
said Ginger must’ve misjudged
his leap as she rolled. He
yelled out, ‘Ginger’s over-
board!’ But those of us that
was on deck couldn’t see even
a little orange dot in the sea ;
just the empty wake stretching
back out of sight.
“Well, I kept thinking about
that poor cat, and how he hated
to get even his feet wet, and
would always keep out of the
way when the Lascars were
washing down the decks. Now
he’d gone and fallen into hun-
dreds of fathoms in the middle
of the ocean. He might be
still trying to swim after the
ship ; they say a cat takes a
long time to die.
“But the Goanese stewards
took it the worst. Terrible
superstitious they are, and
of course it was soon all over
the ship that he was gone.
They said it was unlucky to
lose a cat at sea, and that
Ginger’s spirit would keep try-
ing to get back on board.
“Come of the passengers
whose cabins were away
down on E-deck, at the water-
line, said they’d heard queer
noises, like a cat mewing, at
night. The Goanese said it
was the cat’s ghost; they began
to make excuses about not
going down to E-deck with
trays, especially at night.
“We all had the feeling by
now that it would be an
unlucky voyage.
“Even the deck-quarter-
master, Haines, who was a sen-
sible bloke, not very young,
told me he couldn’t get
Ginger’s end out of his mind.
He was in the Naval Reserve ;
he’d been torpedoed twice by
U-boats during the war, and
had lost his only son in the
blitz on London. He hated
the Jerries. He’d spent days
at sea in an open boat, and
now he started having night-
mares again about being all
alone in the middle of the
ocean.
“ ‘l’ve got a sort of feeling
about this trip,’ he said, and
of course that made me
nervous, too.
“Next day we called in at
one of those little West African
ports —pretty place it looked,
all palm-trees and white
buildings, until you went
ashore and copped the smell.
“We’d been waiting for the
pilot in the lee of an island,
without a breath of air. At
last he come aboard, and we’re
just making for the harbor
when I see we’re going to
collide with a Frenchman
hauling short on his anchor-
cable in the entrance to the
fairway.
“I hung-on to a deck-
stanchion and waited for the
crash. The officers shouted
from the bridge, and the
Froggies working the winch
ran aft for their lives. Two
Lascar seamen were on our
gangway getting it unlashed ;
they jumped on deck just
before it was smashed to
matchwood.
“The bows of the other
ship scraped right along our
port side, scoring and buckling
the plates. The damage was
well above the waterline, but
it held us up while we waited
for the insurance-adjuster to
inspect it.
“We slapped some white
paint over the hull and were
on our way. The Lascars
were nervous now, and the
gloom-merchants said ‘Just you
wait; this is only the begin-
ning. Bad luck always comes
in threes.’
“Next day everyone felt
more cheerful. We were only
two days from Capetown, and
the weather was perfect. It
was one of those clear-blue
days you get at sea, with the
wake sparkling like a big bottle
of lemonade was being poured
over the stern. And there’d
been no more reports of
mewing, or whatever it was,
from thfe lower decks.
“That night I was woke-up
by the quiet. My cabin in
the fo’c’sle has the porthole
covered half the time by the
bow-wave, the light changing
from white to green all day,
and at night the phosphor-
escence flashing past. There’s
always the rush and foam of
the sea along the side, except
when we’re in port.
“This night there was no


Australian Paper
Manufacturers Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE : South Gate, South Melbourne, Victoria.
Mills at Melbourne, Broadford, Fairfield and Mary vale, Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; and Bayswater, W.A.
Sales Offices in all State Capitals
HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE 1959 ANNUAL REPORT
(For the 12 months ended 30th June, 1959)
SALES
Highest yet achieved, being 269,248 tons which is 7% more than
last year’s figure of 250,557 tons.
PRODLCTION Overall the Company worked a greater proportion of total
capacity than ever before and all machines worked continuously
seven days per week for the latter part of the year.
Paper and board production 275,069 tons (last year 248,164 tons);
woodpulp 92,581 tons (89,636 tons).
SELLING PRICES Again held stable in face of rising costs.
PROFIT
Net profit of £2,224,000 (last year £2,108,489) equal to 9.5%
(9.4%) on stockholders’ funds.
DIVIDEND
Final dividend on ordinary stock of 5%, making unchanged 8%
for the year.
CONSTRUCTION
AND
DEVELOPMENT
Mill projects accelerated to increase capacity.
Extensions to Maryvale No. V machine to be in operation by
January, 1960.
Work proceeding well on new £5 million Botany No. 7 mill,
scheduled to start about October, 1960.
Expansion to double capacity of Petrie machine by mid-1961.
Construction of Apcel Ltd. tissue mill proceeding to schedule.
Pulping tests of wood from southern Tasmania and negotiations
with Tasmanian Government for possible pulp mill.
FIBRE
MOULDINGS
A.P.M. Fibercraft Pty. Ltd. established and producing fibre
mouldings for sale in Australia and New Zealand.
FORESTS 300,578 tons of eucalypt and pine pulpwood and 19,382 tons of
sawmill waste delivered to Maryvale.
Pine planting continues. 2,900 acres being planted this season in
Victoria and Queensland.
CAPITAL
CHANGES
Since 30th June, the Company has announced :
Issue of £4,600,000 in 7% unsecured notes.
Proposal for conversion of existing 6% cumulative preference
shares into ordinary shares.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
Missing Friend
ESTATE OF ERNEST EDWARD '
O’NEALE
WOULD CHRISTOPHER EDWARD
O’NEALE, formerly of Featherston, New
Zealand, or any person knowing his
whereabouts, pleas'e communicate with
the District Manager, PUBLIC TRUST
OFFICE, Fielding, New Zealand?
sound at all, except for a little
tinkling ripple as the tops of
the waves broke against the
hull.
“T got up and looked out.
It was a clear night; you
could see the Southern Cross
hanging low down, and more
stars swinging over as the .ship
rolled. She was rolling with a
sort of helpless wallow, and
I knew we was hove-to. The
engines had stopped.
“They were going through
hell down in the engine-room.
It was a block in the water-
pipes, and everything was just
about red-hot. She was taking
the swell on her beam, and
rolling about thirty-six degrees ;
and the air was that hot it
nearly scorched the skin off
their backs as they worked.
“When they removed the
section of pipe there was a
piece of cotton-waste inside.
No one could understand how
it had got in there, though the
Chief had a few choice words
to say about it. It just seemed
to be part of the bad luck
that was following us.
“There was some horrible
stringy stew for lunch that day,
and someone suggested the
Chief had murdered the young
Fourth Engineer and served
him up on toast. ‘They might
at least have removed the
buttons from his overalls,’
said Bill Jones when he come
on a piece of bone. But the
Fourth was seen working about
afterwards, as large as life.
“Some of the crew had shore-
leave in Capetown. They all
had a shot at replacing the
ship’s cat, and nearly caught
,one, too ; but it got away over
a high wall. What with the
accident and the breakdown
we were more than a day
late at Durban, and there was
no leave. When we left there
we’re still without a cat.
“I was getting a bit of air
on the well-deck, just at sun-
set ; we were two days out
from Durban, and our next
port was Fremantle. Back to
good old Aussie! Suddenly
I felt the helm go over. The
wake curved away at an angle,
and the sun swung round to
starboard.
“What’s up now? I thought.
“In half-an-hour it had
spread round the ship that we
was going to pick-up a
wounded seaman from a Ger-
man tanker. He’d been hurt in
a fo’c’sle brawl and was
bleeding to death, in the story
I heard—anyway, the tanker
carried no doctor and had
radioed for help from sixty
miles to south’ard.
“It was a clear, calm night
with a light breeze, and a
moderate sea running. I knew
it wasn’t going to be any
picnic, when I volunteered for
the boat-party ; but they took
Haines, the deck-quarter-
master, instead. He was older
than me, but then he’d had
this experience of lifeboat work
from having ships sunk under
him in the war. I was a bit
surprised at him risking his
to go and help a
German.
“We stopped at a good
distance from the tanker. The
Old Man wasn’t going to risk
any more collisions on that
voyage. Every man of the
boat’s crew wore his lifebelt,
with a little red safety-light
on it.
“There was the Second in
charge of the party, with his
pink baby face and fair curls,
and Haines with his thin grey
hair looking old* enough to be
his father; the ship’s doctor,
and the Lascar crew.
“Tt’s always an uneasy time
when a manned boat is
lowered. A jammed fall, or a
sudden roll setting-up a swing,
can Send everyone into the
water. But the boat, after
lowering-away steadily, started
without any trouble. The
little crimson lights went dip-
ping over the waves, and you
could see by the way they
disappeared in the troughs that
the cross-sea was a lot bigger
than it looked from on deck.
“The passengers was all
along the rails, staring across
at the tanker rolling the swell.
“ ‘He was stabbed in the
chest, I heard,’ said one of
those know-alls you always get
on board. ‘Just missed the
heart. He’s lost a terrible lot
of blood. Let’s hope the Doc.
is in time with the plasma.’
“ ‘I don’t know,’ said some-
one else. ‘Seems silly in a
way, risking all these men’s
lives to save a German, when
ten years ago we were doing
our best to kill them.’
“I hadn’t thought of it that
way before, but now I began
to wonder about this boy.
Only a kid at school when the
war finished, but he’d probably
been a proper little Nazi.
“I hadn’t been torpedoed,
but I’d been in the Merchant
Navy and had helped pick-up
survivors from U-boat attacks.
Some had been machine-
gunned in the water. I won-
dered what Haines was think-
ing. It did seem odd, a British
ship going miles out of its way
to save a Jerry sailor.
“But, hell, we’re all mothers’
sons, and this boy had a mother
back in Germany, I suppose . . .
“The boat had disappeared in
the lee of the tanker. The
tanker was rolling heavily, and
could have crushed them under
her counter. I guessed they
were having a time getting the
Doc, up a rope-ladder ; he was
a heavy chap, and no seaman.
“Presently an Aldis started
winking from the tanker. The
wounded lad was to be trans-
ferred to our ship where he
could be looked after, as soon
as he could be moved. The
Old Man ordered the sick-bay
to be got ready, and I stood-by
to act as a stretcher-bearer.
“The swell seemed to be
rising, and I thought what a
job they’d have getting a help-
less man aboard the pitching
lifeboat. Down at water-level
the great heavy blocks were
swinging at the end of the falls.
The boat was coming back.
“When the boat come close
we could see something white
lashed to the gunwale—it
was the injured boy strapped
to a stretcher, with the Doctor
beside him. But the Doctor
didn’t look much better than
his patient. I saw him hold
his head and lean over the
side. He was no sailor, like I
said.
“Waiting with the stretcher-
party on B-deck, and looking
down in the glare of the
loading-lights that had been
turned on, I could see the
young German’s face, white as
paper, with wide-open eyes
staring up at the ship.
“Haines, in the bows, caught
one swinging fall that was
trying to knock him into the
sea, and hooked-on. The
Second got the other with a
boat-hook. The davit-winch
started to rattle. Then just as
the boat came clear of the
water our bows lifted to a
big wave.
“The lifeboat began to
swing like a Luna Park swing-
boat. The men could only
hang-on for their lives as it
went sweeping fore and aft.
The First Officer working the
winch from the boat-deck
dropped them back in the water
with a long swish.
“TTe waited till the ship
stopped pitching, and
tried again. This time a sudden
roll caught us unawares. The
lifeboat swung far out, and
crashed back against the side
with a horrible jar.
“We got a -fender between
the ship’s side and the boat.
Another few blows like that
would knock it to pieces. I
saw the young German staring
up, terrified.
“Haines leaned over and
give him a pat, as if- to say
‘You’ll be right, mate.’ He
kept his hand on his shoulder.
The lad was about the same
age as Haines’s son would’ve
been, if he’d lived. Next thing
the boat hit again, harder
than before, and there was a
shout, and the Lascars began
to panic. Then we saw that
Haines was missing. Only his
cap was there, floating on the
dark water by the ship.
“There was nothing for it
but to lower back again, and
trust Haines wouldn’t be
crushed beneath the boat. It
was no sooner in the water
than we saw a little red light
bob up beyond it. The Second
leaned over and hauled Haines
aboard ; but he lay in the
bottom without moving.
“I can still see how slowly
the boat came up, smooth
enough this time, to the level
of the rail on B-deck. It was
like watching a slow-motion
film. And I remember looking
at the young German as he
was lifted over the side after
poor old Haines, and being
surprised at how young and
fair his face looked, with no
blood in it at all.
“He’d gone unconscious by
then, and I thought we had
two corpses as they were laid
out side by side in the sick-
bay. I kept thinking it was


Gillette
is the only way to
$
it a decent shave
What a clean feeling when you shave with water...
lather...and a Gillette blade in a Gillette one-piece
razor! A man couldn’t ask for a more refreshing, a more
satisfying, a smoother shave. Here is the Gillette
Heavy weight the right razor for you if you have
tough whiskers or like the heft of a heavy razor. It is
one of the Gillette 3-weight Trio. The others are: Light
weight just right if you have a sensitive skin or
prefer a light razor; Medium weight for average skin
and beard. Each is in a handy travel case with a
convenient dispenser of Blue Gillette blades and a
compartment for used blades. Available now at
your favourite store only 15/- each.
?
; : y& : s. :v$
83
•V- < : -
m
mm
: ;: : X;:
Wiv
XyXv
m
LIO3B
me would have to sew their
shrouds, and I hated the idea
of sewing old Haines into a
sail, and seeing him slid over-
board to the fishes, just like
old Ginger had gone. And I
had the feeling it was that cat’s
fault.
“I mean, if we hadn’t been
delayed with all that bad luck
after the cat was lost, the col-
lision and the engine trouble,
we'd be five-hundred miles on
our way and some other ship
would’ve got the radio message.
“But they was both alive.
Haines only" had concussion,
and shock . . . When the lad
revived he went a bit mad at
first ; thought he’d been kid-
napped or something, and
Haines helped to soothe him
down. He’d learnt a few words
of German in the war.
“By the time we raised Fre-
mantle they was very friendly,
and it ended with Haines
inviting the lad to go and see
his missus whenever his ship
was in London. He was quite
upset to see him go when the
ambulance come to take him
off to hospital.
“Tt was an unlucky voyage
for Haines, all the same.
He was getting-on, and the
wetting affected his chest.
Next trip home he was
pensioned-off, and he’s been a
sick man ever since.
“But the boy has been to see
him and his wife a couple of
times. They’ve got real fond
of him. ... '»
“Funny the way things work
out. We never had any more
bad luck that voyage. At
Fremantle the crew got hold
of another cat, a big ginger
fellow like the one we lost.
We never had any bad luck
since.” He touched the
wooden rail for an instant,
tucked-in the last raw end.of
rope and patted the splice.
“I haven’t seen a cat aboard,
this trip,” I said.
“No, it hasn’t been warm
enough for him, until today.
Look there he is now . . .
Hullo, you lazy old bastard.
Come out for a bit of .sun?”
A large, yellow, sleepy-
looking tom was strolling
across the deck towards the
rail.
“fm not superstitious, mind
you,” said the sailmaker, “but
I wish he wouldn’t sleep up
there, damn him.”
The cat looked up to judge
his spring. I held my breath ;
but he landed lightly, effort-
lessly on the smooth wood,
and settled down to watch the
flying-fish as they stitched
their way over the silken sea.


Britain Votes on Thursday
Britain goes to the polls tomorrow
(Thursday) for its fifth post-war
general election. At the four pre-
vious reckonings victory went
twice to Labor and twice to the Con-
servatives ; the latter have been in office,
led in turn by Churchill, Eden and
Macmillan, since 1951. No election was
held between 1935 and 1945, Parliament
having followed the precedent established
in World War I and voted itself an
extended term so as to avoid political
controversy in war-time. After VE-Day,
however, the Labor party withdrew from
the Coalition Government and at the
general election in July, 1945, a land-
slide to Labor gave it a huge majority.
The Labor win was welcomed by
millions, though their numbers included
many who were slightly bewildered to
find that putting Attlee in meant putting
Churchill, the architect of victory, out.
With 396 members Labor had more
than double the Conservative strength
(189). This was the first time the party
had ever held a majority in the House
of Commons ;. Ramsay MacDonald, in
both his terms as Labor Prime Minister,
had had to rely on Liberal support. But
the Liberal party of 1945 was only a
shadow of its onetime self; the party
which in 1906 had had 387 members
could muster only 25 in the first post-
war Government, and these were split
into two groups.
Looking back today many of the older
Labor members probably feel a little
shamefaced at remembering that they
celebrated the accession of Socialism to
power by rising in the Commons and
singing “The Red Flag.” Almost in>
mediately they set about putting into
practice the Socialism they had been
preaching for years. Unhampered by
such Constitutional safeguards as kept
the Chifley-Evatt Government from
carrying-out a similar programme in
Australia they went flat-out for
nationalisation. Within a year they had
nationalised the Bank of England, the
coalmines, the cable- and wireless-ser-
vices, domestic and overseas airlines. The
railways, road-transport, canals and
electricity were gathered-in later.
In a Hurry ~
in changing the social face of
Britain may have pleased the
planners and doctrinaires, but it didn’t
guarantee success. Prices and living-
costs continued to soar and dearer coal
and higher fares were hard to explain
in the absence of the profit motive. The
rank-and-file seemed a little puzzled
when Utopia didn’t immediately follow
nationalisation, and even some of the
enthusiasts began to wonder whether
they weren’t trying to do too much too
soon. As one Minister put it, “there had
been too little preparation for
nationalisation.... We found we had to
complete legislation without blueprints.”
Still, there was no suggestion of turn-
ing back. The road to Socialism didn’t
allow for detours, and apparent failures
were explained away as evidence that
more nationalisation, not less, was re-
quired. The eager ones were anxious for
the steel industry to be taken-over before
the end of Labor’s first five-year term,
but it wasn’t as easy to find excuses for
this as it had been in the case of the
mines. The steel industry was not
inefficient; its prices were lower than
those for U.S. or Continental steel and
its production-rates were rising.
Someone soon found a Socialist ex-
planation for this in anticipation of
Government-ownership the workers in
the industry had increased their produc-
tion ; if they were disappointed in this
then output would fall. So a Steel
Nationalisation Bill was pushed through,
though its proclamation was postponed
until after the next election. Then, at
the urging of Labor’s annual conference
the Government agreed that the next
grabs would be the sugar and cement
industries, industrial assurance, meat-
wholesaling and parts of the chemical
industry.
Decline and Revival
VXZith this programme the Attlee
** Government appealed to the people
in February, 1950. The people’s verdict
was scarcely a convincing endorsement
of the New Age. Labor’s majority of
186 was reduced to eight. The Govern-
ment took this narrow escape as elec-
toral approval of its steel policy. It
went ahead with the Steel Grab, but the
other proposals for nationalisation were
shelved. The strain of getting its tiny
majority into the House at critical
moments was too great to warrant the
attempt to pass them. After 18 months
the country went to the polls again, in
October, 1951, and Labor was defeated.
The bloom was off the rose *>f Socialism ;
six years after the war food-rationing
was still in force and the housing prob-
lem no nearer solution. Party strengths
in the short-lived second Attlee Govern-
ment had been Labor, 315; Conserva-
tives, 298 ; Liberals, 9. The election
virtually reversed the strengths of the
two main parties: Conservatives, 320 ;
Labor, 296 ; Liberals, 6.
Under Churchill, taking-up the reins
again at 79, steel was denationalised, but
most of the other confiscated industries
were too difficult to unscramble. Food-
rationing was abolished and the housing
target promised at the elections —300,000
homes a year—was exceeded. Both the
export trade and the position of sterling
were improved, and when Churchill
handed over to Anthony Eden in 1955
the economy was in a far healthier
condition.
Eden went to the country almost
immediately, although Parliament could
have run another 18 months. His
Government was in the position of not
being able to afford losing any seats;
its majority was only 16. It won about
20 seats and increased its majority to 59
—the first occasion in over a century
on which a British Government increased
its majority at a general election. The
Labor vote, which had totalled 13,949,000
in 1951, dropped to 12,405,246, nearly a
million short of the Conservative total.
“Superinac”
the popularity of the Conserva-
tive Government plunged steeply
after the Suez crisis Harold Macmillan
inherited from Eden a job which seemed
to have little future. Sensing a kill,
Labor, now led by Hugh Gaitskell,
pressed for a general election and there
is little doubt that had one been held, the
Macmillan Government would have
taken the count. Macmillan weathered
the storm, set-out to restore his country’s
shaken prestige and to stop the drain
on its sterling reserves. Outwardly it
was largely a one-man campaign, with
“Supermac” selling his personality in a
manner fitted to the TV Age, but behind
the scenes he had a good team putting
in very solid work. Within 18 months
the situation was transformed, and
Gaitskell, Bevan and co., who had been
blithely allocating portfolios forward-
dated to election-day, began to have
their doubts.
By the time Macmillan announced
polling-day a month ago public-opinion
polls placed Conservative chances very
high. The Government was able to
point to a vast improvement in overseas
trade—including, for the first time in a
century, an export «surplus with America
—rising employment, and stable living-
costs at home. In foreign affairs it could
claim some of the credit for the improved
climate in international relationships,
Macmillan’s visit to Moscow having
paved the way for the Eisenhower-
Khrushchev meetings. Gaitskell, turning
back the clock, has tried to make the
electorate fearful of entrusting its future
to the “Men of Suez,” but this seems
rather like flogging a dead camel. His
bid to win votes with promises on the
domestic front is a much more likely bet.
Labor’s promises include higher pen-
sions and unemployment-pay; a State-
aided and contributory superannuation
scheme; cheaper loans for housing;
more money for hospital development;
taxation of capital-gains. Latest p.-o.
polls show an improvement in Labor's
chances, but Gaitskell would be wise not
to build hopes too high on those indi-
cators, which are not nearly so reliable
under the British system of voluntary
voting as they are here. Labor’s task
is to get apathetic electors to the polling-
booths. At the 1955 election 1,836,000
fewer people voted than in 1951 and on
balance something like 1,500,000 of the
stayaways were Labor supporters.
Unless Gaitskell can rally the laggards,
or at least those of them who live in
the vital borderline electorates, he’ll still
be in Opposition after tomorrow.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
field Guineas and the Caulfield
Cup before tackling the Vic-
toria Derby. His weight in the
Caulfield Cup automatically
goes up from 7.5 to 7.7, and
altogether the Caulfield mile-
and-a-half seems made to
order for him after his easy
win at the distance in the
A.J.C. Derby carrying 8.10.
Front-running stayers have fre-
quently won important handi-
A.J. C.'s First Day
As generally anticipated, the
A.J.C. Derby and Epsom
Handicap went to Martello
Towers and Noholme, and
neither was pushed-out to win.
Form in several previous wins
pointed strongly to the speedy
grey stayer winning the classic,
while Noholme came into the
Epsom spotlight following his
easy win in the Hill Stakes at
Rosehill, up to which stage
the Randwick mile had looked
very open.
• • • •
Noholme is trained at Rand-
wick by M. McCarten, who
seemed destined to provide the
Epsom favorite. He had had
Up And Coming all set for
the race, and splendid win-
ning form had made that New
Zealander a hot favorite till it
was decided to send him to
America. Huntly, another
member of the McCarten clan,
had also been well favored
for the Epsom, but went amiss.
• • • •
As a trainer McCarten had
had previous Epsom wins with
Knave, Davey Jones and
Kiaree. As a jockey he won
on Gold Rod and Autopay.
Noholme’s win made it four
Epsoms to N. Sellwood, who
had earlier won on Knave,
Silver Phantom and Titanic.
Noholme was the first three-
year-old to win the Epsom
since 1892, when Dare Devil
(by Grand Flaneur, unbeaten
in races) carried 6.12 in win-
ning the mile for trainer Joe
Burton. His time was 1.40.
Noholme carved it out in
1.34.9, which went close to the
Australian record of 1.34|
made by Silver Phantom in
1953. Other three-year-olds
to win the Epsom were
Espiegle, in 1884, and West-
minster (dead-heat), in 1883.
Both carried 6.2. Of course,
the best of the age rarely run
in the mile, their owners prefer-
ring to give them a fly at the
Derby.
• • • •
Martello Towers (whose
record at time of writing lists
the A.J.C. Derby and six other
races from nine starts) could
well add the Melbourne Cup.
He has won nearly £14,000 in
stakes, and it’s expected that
he will contest both the Caul-
“When you re with me I'd prefer you to forget
that you're a popular jockey."
caps, and to date Martello
Towers hasn’t had to be ridden
with the whip in his wins.
Breeding-lines of the grey have
already been outlined here, and
they point to his running any
distance. Stayers in the family
include Carbon Copy, Free
Kick and Harriet Graham
(Australian Cup). The grey’s
dam, Nidhauli, is by Nizami
(imp.), sire of two Melbourne
Cup winners, Hiraji and Fox-
zami.
Raced by his breeder, A.J.C.
committeeman Brian Cro.wley,
Sky High (a brother to Sky-
line) cleared out to win the
first Sydney two-year-old race,
the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate, in
the record time of 59.1. The
colt may have one more start
—in the V.R.C. Maribyrnong
Plate—before spelling till next
autumn. Sky High and
Gemini Prince, who followed
him home in the Breeders’, had
won barrier-trials in brilliant
fashion, and the Plate was
considered a match-race to
such extent that they started
equal-favorites at 5 to 4, with
nothing else wanted. It was
no match. Sky High was soon
in the lead, and he beat Gemini
Prince by three lengths.
Gemini Prince didn’t settle-
down to the job, and he gave
Sellwood an uncomfortable
ride. Maybe he will benefit by
this first race in public. Sky
High is N.S.W.-bred, being by
Star Kingdom (imp.), who also
sired the runner-up. The
winner’s dam is Flight’s
Daughter, who, as the name
implies, is a daughter of that
grand mare Flight. Flight’s
Daughter is again in foal to
Star Kingdom. Skyline and Sky
High are her only progeny to
race.
Capably handled by promis-
ing apprentice C. O’Neill,
Carrus, in winning the six-
furlongs Reginald Allen Handi-
cap for Three-year-olds,
seemed lucky to beat Wood-
lands Wonder, who arrived
late on the scene, and failed by
only a long head. The favorite,
Cherryhurst, who carries the
Noholme colors, was a short
head away third. Cherryhurst
again showed plenty of speed,
but weakened.
Winner of Saturday’s Ken-
sington Handicap, Cuban Tan
had scored at Eagle Farm a
few weeks previously and had
finished fourth to Mystic Star
at Canterbury three days be-
fore the Kensington was run.
Cuban Tan led most of the
way, and, though Sea Hound
secured a run on the inside of
him as the pacemaker moved
slightly from the rails in the
final furlong, Cuban Tan was
just a short half-head in front
on the post.
Winner of the Trial Stakes
on Randwick’s first day, the
five-year-old Beau Son geld-
ing Old Beau had raced three
times in one week —first over
10 furlongs when beaten a long
neck, then a win over 9\
furlongs in Novice company,
and finally the Randwick win,
in which he lasted just long
enough to beat Murchison.
The performance of N.Z.
stayer Yeman in the A.J.C.
Colin Stephen Stakes should
keep him among the favored
horses for the Melbourne Cup,
though aged gallopers haven’t
done anything of much
account in the big two-miler.
Certainly a number have won
it, but younger age-groups,
especially the four-year-olds,
have the wood on the veterans.
Yeman —at the moment,
second-favorite for the Cup—
was last most of the way in
the 12-furlongs Colin Stephen
Stakes, but he finished on
strongly in fourth place.
He had 9.6 under the w.-f.-a.
conditions, and drops to 9st. in
the Melbourne Cup.
* * *
Randwick’s main highlight
next Saturday will be the
£2550 w.-f.-a. Craven Plate
(10 furlongs). It’s one of the
“greats,” in that its winners’-
list is starred with famous
names —Gloaming, Beauford,
Windbag, Limerick, Amounis,
Phar Lap, Chatham, Peter Pan,
Beau Vite, High Caste, Flight,
Hydrogen, Prince Cortauld.
Both Phar Lap and Chatham
had three successive wins.
Prince Darius had two (1957
and 1958).
One of the most sensational,
and probably the most thrilling,
of all Craven Plates was that
of 1918, in which Desert Gold,
starting at 5 to 2 on, was un-
placed. About a furlong or so
from the winning-line four of
the six starters were almost on
terms, Cetigne securing a run
on the rails to win it from
Wolaroi and Estland.
* * *
It isn’t only the books who
get hungry! Official estimates
reckoned that 30,000 meals
would be served daily over the
four days of the A.J.C. Spring
Carnival. The scran (maybe
depending on how you were
punting) would range from


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
OSULUVajv
X ptvltd c
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS to OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL to COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS to OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
three-course luncheons to fish-
’n’-chips and the old reliable
pie. Randwick these days runs
to 34 dining-rooms and “food-
points,” with about 700 dis-
pensers to dish-out about
40001 b. of fish, 6 tons of meat,
3000 double loaves of bread.
All going good with customers,
they’d scoff some 1500 barbe-
cued steaks a day, and would
sink scwt. of tea, 5000 gallons
of soft-tack, and a noble 25,000
gallons of suds. Things not
going so good with them,
punters could have their
customary free meals chewing
the rag.
• * *
“Soc”: In the issue of
29 /7 / ’59 these “Sporting
Notions” pages included this
par. of mine:
The “S.M. Herald” having on
Saturday, July 25, labelled Balfast
an unlikely starter in the S.T.C.
Winter Cup, and then, in its
“Sun-Herald” issue next day,
having had to report that Ballast
not only started in the S.T.C.
Winter Cup but won it, and, more-
over, was heavily backed down
from 5 to 1 to equal-favoritism at
11 to 4, surely after this latest
experience good old “Gran” will
at last decide to leave unlikely
to the kindergarten. Or is this
one that can rightly be labelled
unlikely ?
For the seven races at Rand-
wick last Saturday the “S.M.
Herald,” in its Saturday-morn-
ing issue, listed a total of 78
acceptors, and labelled only
one of them “unlikely.” The
“unlikely” one this time was
Old Beau, and home Old Beau
duly lobbed, at 10 to 1. This
ought to at least qualify dear
old “Granny” for a run in
"Give Way to the right!"
the Kindergarten Carrots
Stakes.
* * *
Melbourne Coming Up
The spotlight of Australian
racing switches to Caulfield
next Saturday, for the first day
of the V.A.T.C.’s Spring
Carnival, during which the
club will distribute close on
£50,000 in stake-money.
Guineas Day (Saturday) is
always a most interesting fix-
ture, and this year especially
the racing should be worth
travelling any distance to see.
The Guineas (a mile race for
three-year-olds first run in
1881) has always been a sizzler,
and the roll-call of winners
reads like a Who’s Who of the
Turf. Since Attley and Royal
Gem dead-heated in what is
still race-record time of 1.361
in 1945, such champions as
Phoibos, Hydrogen, Tulloch
and Wiggle have won the race,
and Saturday’s field will prob-
ably be as good a line-up as
ever contested it.
The A.I.C. carnival has
shown us here in Melbourne
just how good the Sydney colts
are, but, having seen him win
the Moonee Valley Stakes, this
miter is convinced that Mar-
dene is in champion class. It
will be a better race to watch
than to bet on, but after his
Epsom 1.34 9-10, one must
select Noholme to win.
For the Guineas: Noholme,
1 ; Mardene, 2; Martello
Towers, 3.
There was a new Melbourne
Cup favorite after the running
of the ly-mile Turnbull Stakes
(w.f.a., with penalties) at
Flemington last Saturday.
Proved two-miler Mac, winner
of this year’s Adelaide Cup,
bolted away with the Turnbull
carrying 9.5, which is 121 b.
more than his Melbourne Cup
impost. There is not much size
to Mac, but it’s all quality and
courage. Without detracting
from Mac’s excellent run, the
field in the Turnbull was very
ordinary.
• • • •
For the second week run-
ning an Adelaide entrant won
the main Melbourne race, when
the good filly Mintaway
thrashed the Victorian fillies
in the important Edward Mani-
fold Stakes, a £3OOO mile
event at set-weights. (On the
previous Saturday, Mardene
had won the Moonee Valley
Stakes.) Mintaway is by the
new and successful sire Orgog-
lio out of Penrua, and was
bred by her owner, R. C.
Stewart, who had not previ-
ously raced a horse in Mel-
bourne. The filly has an
excellent record in Adelaide,
where she won five races, and
she won so decisively on
Saturday that she appeals
greatly for the fillies’ classic,
The Oaks.
It was a day to remember
for Bill Williamson at Flem-
ington. Poker-faced Bill, for
the second time in his illus-
trious career, rode five winners.
It is 13 years since he did it
before —at Albury on 3/5/’46
—but this writer cannot
remember any other jockey
riding five winners on a
Melbourne metropolitan pro-
gramme.
• • • •
With the colts’ division of
the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes
run in two heats there were
three events for the two-year-
old “babies” at Flemington.
In the fillies’ race the Landau
filly Impulsive was made a
5-to-4 favorite, but she lived
up to her name by unseating
Geoff Lane at the start. The
race went to another Landau
filly (and there is no doubt
that the stock of this English
horse will have a great year),
Limousine, who is out of
Roshanara by Hostile, and
who is a half-sister to Oak-
leigh Plate winner Spitfire.
Limousine is raced by V.R.C.
committeeman E. A. Under-
wood, who also owns the Pan
II filly Paarl, runner-up to the
winner.
In the first heat of the colts’
and geldings’ section of the
Maribyrnong, Milverton, on
the strength of his 10-lengths
win in a trial, was sent out a
2-to-l-on pop. He landed the
money, but his backers would
not want the race over again.
After a close look at the print,
the judge declared for Milver-
ton by inches from Reinsman.
The winner had, however, got
away poorly. Milverton is a
gelding by Sweet William from
Girella by Solar, Bear, and as
yet is only pony-sized.
Although his 56|sec. was
£sec. more than Limousine and
Milverton took to run the 4j
furlongs, Skadar looked the
most impressive youngster
seen at Flemington, when he


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
■ ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
i
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
won the second" heat of the
colts’ and geldings’ Mari-
byrnong. He is a gelding by
Wiggle’s sire, Rego, from
Sweef Sherry, and was pur-
chased on behalf of his owners,
R. D. Brien and his wife,
at the Sydney yearling-sales for
850gns. by trainer Mick
Alessio. Skadar was always
going comfortably, and had the
race won a long way from home.
It was said here recently that
Dhaulagiri was likely to be the
best of Melbourne’s three-
year-olds over the spring
racing, and the High Peak
colt certainly looked impres-
sive in winning the first divi-
sion of the October Handicap,
a 10-furlongs event for his own
age. The Victorian colts are
not up to the standard of the
cracks from Sydney and
Adelaide, but Dhaulagiri will
continue to win races against
the local horses.
Minta Lad, who won the
second October, is a promising
youngster. He put up a
remarkable performance. At
the furlong he clipped another
runner’s heels and was down
on his nose. Jack Purtell
showed great coolness to pick
the gelding up, and drive him
home for a narrow win. With-
out the mishap, Minta Lad
would have won by lengths.
He’s one to follow.
Gaybao moved up sharply
in Melbourne Cup discussions
when he made a one-act affair
of the 13-furlongs Stand
Handicap. The five-year-old
Bilbao gelding proved by his
Australian Cup win in the
autumn that he can stay all
day, and with only 8.4 in the
Melbourne'Cup he is entitled
to respect.
* * *
The Trots
At Harold Park last Friday
night odds-on favorite Corre-
late gave an outstanding dis-
play to win the Handicap in
near-record time for the llf-
furlongs journey, doing it in
3min. 6sec. With three fur-
longs to go Jim Caffyn took
him to the outside, and he duly
raced right away to a three-
lengths win from Tense Ayr
and Field Dixie. Gorrelate is
now on the scratch mark in the
£5OOO Anniversary Cup (Octo-
ber 24). Diabolo Don, from
48yds. behind, finished a
promising seventh at a mile-
rate of 2.6. All the first four
races were won in record
time respectively, Apepa
(Trotters’), by five lengths;
Amazing Vale (First Qualify-
ing), by five lengths; Hands
Down (Second Qualifying), by
three-quarter length; and
Triple Bar (Three-year-old
Stakes), by three lengths. There
was a good hard surface on
the newly-topped track.
* * *
Other Sports
Playing on Sunday in about
as foul conditions as could be
invented —mud, pouring rain,
wild wind, and everything else
the Sydney’s weather mis-
casters hadn’t tipped—Prague
beat Apia 3-2 in the Soccer
grand-final. It was a day on
which two men and a dog
would have been a fair crowd,
yet 9000 hardy souls stood out
in it and watched the match
.... On the previous day, in
Melbourne, Coburg got into
the Victorian Football Associ-
ation grand-final by just beat-
ing Sandringham in a literally
hard-fought game.
* * *
Reverting to mention here of
Goulburnite (N.S.W.) Bruce
Devlin winning the amateur
championship of Australia,
back in 1933 another from
there, Lou Kelly, won the
Australian Open. These days
Kelly is secretary of the Pro-
fessional Golfers’ Association.
* * *
“Try”: For initiative,
Petersham - Sutherland (Syd-
ney) Junior Rugby Unionites
will take some tossing. In the
last eight years, solely through
the efforts of members, the club
has raised £30,000 to send its
teams throughout Australia
and abroad. The club this year
sent a party of 22 members to
N.Z., raising £3OOO to do it.
Last year a similar tour was
made to N.Z., while in previous
years the club sent large teams
to Queensland, South Aus-
tralia, Tasmania, Western Aus-
tralia, New Guinea and New
Caledonia. Singular feature of
the club is that members just
aren’t interested in going up to
the higher grades under-
standable" when such trips are
available each year for nothing.
* * t
With gate-takings of about
£320,000 from 25 matches
watched by about 800,000
enthusiasts the tour of N.Z. by
the Lions entered the realm of
big business. Best return was
from the final Test at Auck-
land, when 60,000 paid £32,000
—with a couple of thousand
more in towering Scotchmen’s
grandstands in adjoining back-
yards.
.* * *
“Retrospect”: Seated in a
sunny corner of the Australian
Golf Club’s commodious club-
house, from where they had a
long-range view of many holes
being played in the recent Aus-
tralian Open, were veterans Ivo
Whitton, Dan Cullen and Tom
Howard. Each had a story to
tell about some feat on the
course, but none could speak
with more authority on Aus-
tralian Open championships
than Ivo Whitton. He has the
right to be ranked as one of
the greatest golfers Australia
has produced, because no man
has yet been able to equal his
record of winning the Open
five times. Whitton (Victoria),
an amateur, did that over a
span of 19 years—l9l2, ’l3, ’26,
’29 and ’3l.
* * *
Instead of six-day Test-
matches between England and
Australia the next series (1962-
63) will have five days. M.C.C.
and Australia have agreed that,
as an experiment for that tour,
the Tests should have that
limit, with six playing-hours
each day. This new arrange-
ment will leave five extra days
that could be devoted to
country games, drastically cut
on the last tour.


KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street,
SYDNEY
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
UNCABLED
ADDITIO NS
LABOR AND NATIONALISATION
in London
“Encounter” on what he
regards as an intellectual
exhaustion in the British Labor
party, Andrew Schonfield
holds that one of several
reasons for this is “that the
Labor party exhausted itself
earlier in the struggle over the
policy of nationalisation and
has remained spiritually
enfeebled because of its con-
tinued refusal to resolve the
issue once and for all.
“The current compromise on
nationalisation is both delicate
and explosive, reflecting no
resolution of any problem but
the unstable truce between the
two most powerful men in the
party, Hugh Gaitskell and
Aneurin Bevan.
“Gaitskell and his wing of
the party think that the pro-
gramme of all-out nationalisa-
tion belongs to the primeval
era of Socialism. In their view
it was a mistake to believe that
the State would manage the
country’s industries better than
private enterprise. There were
a few public utilities, like elec-
tricity, which were natural
monopolies and required
centralised control; these were
obvious candidates for public
ownership. But, for the rest,
such control as the State
needed to exercise in the
interests, of consumers or to
further the broad economic
purposes of the nation could
best be achieved by insisting
on greater public accounta-
bility from private enterprise.
—London “Daily Herald
“YOU’VE GOT THE MOONLIGHT —WE’VE GOT
THE GIRL!”
“The formula is essentially
similar to that of Roosevelt’s
New Deal: put industry in a
glasshouse, make it publish
more information, place it in a
position in which it knows it is
exposed and vulnerable —then
it will respond most anxiously
to the demands made upon it
in the name of the public’s
interest. Any odd recalcitrant
firm can be dealt with individ-
ually. But the State ought not
to get into the business of run-
ning any more industrial con-
cerns, if there is any other way
out.
“That is, I believe, a fair
summary of the underlying
doctrine which guides the
thought of the Gaitskell leader-
ship. It has had a hard fight
to get its position accepted,
and even now there are a large
number of militants in posi-
tions of important; local
influence in the Labor party
who would shudder away in
outraged denial at this cold
statement of aims.
“Nationalisation as an issue
of doctrinal dispute within the
Labor party is by no means
dead. But in the national
leadership the only important
figure who rejects the Gaitskell
line, and believes whole-
heartedly in the traditional
doctrine, is Aneurin Bevan. He
is, of course, an enormously
important exception, if only
because his personality pro-
vides a natural focus for Left-
wing sentiment. A party of the
Left would be diminished by
his absence. His importance
is visibly reflected in the failure
of the party-platform to carry
the official leader’s views on
nationalisation through to their
logical conclusion.
“In logic these views imply
that the steel-industry should
be left in peace. There is no
economic or political case for
nationalising steel which does
not apply with equal force to a
couple of dozen other manu-
facturing industries. Yet it is
steel alone which is threatened.
Why?
“It is argued that the Labor
party is only returning to the
status quo in the original pro-
gramme of nationalisation
which it had completed before
the Tories disturbed it. But this
will not do. For the Labor
party’s programme has itself
changed radically since the
time when thjs status quo was
established. In particular, two
new ideas of Gaitskellite in-
spiration have been taken on
board: first, the purchase of
shares by the State in existing
private-enterprise companies,
chosen because they are ex-
pected to be successful in busi-
ness and thus provide the State
with capital-gains, and second,
the specific rejection by the
State of any active manage-
ment-function to go with this
function of share-ownership.
“Now, the sole purpose of
transferring the ownership of
steel to the State is in order to
exercise the function of
management more effectively
in the interests of society. This
clashes with the new doctrine,
for steel is no worse managed
than the rest of private enter-
prise. But of course Bevan
cares nothing for the new doc-
trine. He had to be prevented
somehow from criticising it
publicly and thus focusing the
attention of the old-style
militants upon it —which he
certainly would have done, if
an attempt had been made to
drop the nationalisation of steel.
“For Bevan, steel-nationali-
sation is not important in itself,
but because it keeps his foot
in the door, and leaves him
the chance to push that door
open to a further programme
of nationalising other indus-
tries in the future. It is concrete
evidence that the party-plat-
form still has not rejected the
traditional formula of out-
right nationalisation, whatever
the party-leader’s personal
views may be.
“Thus the two wings of the
party think of the purpose of
steel-nationalisation from two
diametrically opposed view-
points. For the Right it is the
last nationalisation : in taking


111
Z3fc
With a Tilley Pressure-
Kerosene Domestic Iron
you can press anything,
any time, anywhere.
On your travels or at
home, indoors or out,
4 hours of easy-going,
heat-controlled
ironing on only 1/3
pint of kerosene.
No wires, no flex,
no trouble at all. The Tilley
Portable Iron is a first-class
engineering product....
and 100 % British Made.
£7-2-9
(freight extra outside
metropolitan area)
REGD.
TRUST TILLEY
for lighting and heating
(including, of course, pressing and pleating)
Obtainable front all good hardware stores throughout Australia. In ease of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
steel into public ownership a
line is drawn which brings the
programme of nationalisation
to an end. To the traditional
Left centred around Mr.
Bevan the decision is taken to
mean that the Right-wing has,
after all, failed to halt the
policy of nationalisation.
“Thus the Right-wing of the
Labor party has only won its
struggle for a new industrial
policy, taking account of the
successes of capitalism in the
mid-20th century instead of
being wholly dominated by its
failures of a quarter of a
century ago, by the simple
expedient of refusing combat
with the other side.
“Although this may be an
admirable administrative
arrangement for keeping the
party together with a sufficient
air of solidarity to face a
general election, it is not a
device which makes for intellec-
tual vigor.”
End of the
Worker-priests
T ondon “New Statesman”
■*-' comment on the Vatican
announcement that the worker-
priest movement, which was
started in France several years
ago to combat what the French
clergy regarded as a growing
“de-Christianisation” of the
French working-class, is to be
finally discontinued:
“One of the reasons why -the
French cardinals and their
allies supported the candidacy
of Pope John XXIII last year
was that they understood he
would approve the develop-
ment of the worker-priest
movement in France. This had
come under heavy criticism
during the last years of Pius
XII, and the worker-priests had
been forbidden to take jobs
which involved more than three
hours of work per day.
“Early this summer, it seems,
Cardinal Feltin [of Paris]
urged that this decision be
reversed. But when the Holy
Office met on June 10 it not
merely rejected Feltin’s request
but forbade all priests to under-
take any factory or manual
work whatsoever. Feltin saw
the Pope the next day, but was
told the decision could not be
reversed (it was confirmed at
a further meeting on June 24);
he was nevertheless invited to
submit a memorandum on the
subject.
“This Feltin did, and [the
Secretary to the Holy Office]
Cardinal Pizzardo’s letter,
dated July 3 [and published
in the Paris newspaper “Le
Monde”] is an acknowledgment
of the memorandum, which
rejects not only its conclusions
but also its premises.
“The worker-priests, it says,
must be disbanded: (1) because
work is incompatible with
their sacerdotal duties; (2)
because they may become
corrupted by materialism and
the class-struggle. In any case,
it says, they are unnecessary
because the assumption that
French workers have become
‘de-Christianised’ is false: ‘lt
is difficult to regard as totally
de-Christianised masses of men
of whom a very great number
have received the sacred and
indelible mark of baptism.’
“No doubt the Vatican has
been impressed by recent
statistics of visitors to Lourdes,
Lisieux and other French
pilgrimage-centres. The Holy
Office might note another set of
figures. A weekend Communist
fete at Meudon, sponsored by
‘L’Humanite’ [the Communist
newspaper in Paris], attracted
well over half-a-million Paris-
ians—3so,ooo on a Sunday
afternoon alone. On that Sun-
day morning, the French rail-
way authorities calculate, over
100,000 people left the Gare
Montparnasse for the fete,
breaking the record for morn-
ing departures from any one
station.
“The immense majority of
these people, who had sacri-
ficed their Sunday devotions to
further the Communist cause,
had, of course, received ‘the
sacred and indelible mark of
baptism.’ ”
China and the U.N.
'T'HE familiar question of
Communist China’s admis-
sion to the United Nations
was raised again by Indian
representative Krishna Menon
at the latest meeting of the
General Assembly. Two points
of view:
K. H. W. Hilborn, in a letter
to London “Time and Tide":
“There are two possible
arguments which could, if they
were valid, justify the Nehru
stand. One is that membership
in the . United Nations would
expose Red China more than
at present to the pressures of
world opinion, and that this
influence would serve to deflect
Peking from aggression into
the paths of peace. The other
is that the United Nations can-
not act effectively against a
regime which is excluded from
the organisation, and so from
the obligations of the Charter.
“Neither argument is in the
least convincing. One of the
few important successes to the
credit of the United Nations
was its intervention in Korea,
where it acted with great
effectiveness against the North
Koreans —who were not United
Nations members —and subse-
quently prevented the conquest
of the Korean Republic by the
Red Chinese. It is sometimes
forgotten that it was only
because of Red China’s exclu-
sion from the Security Council
that the body was in a position
to meet the crisis of June, 1950.
“As for the notion that the
moral force of ‘world opinion’
can restrain a Communist
aggressor through the agency of
the United Nations, provided
only that the aggressor is given
membership, surely this piece
of naive' optimism must have
been exploded by Russia’s reac-
tion to the numerous resolu-
tions on Hungary.”
* * *
Manchester “ Guardian”
editorial: “We cannot, unfor-
funately, suppose that if Peking
had sat in the Chinese seat it
would have abstained from
ruthlessness in Tibet or stopped
doing what it wanted
because the Assembly passed a
resolution against it. Hungary
is not the only discouraging
precedent; some of the most
virtuous Governments (in so far
as Governments can be
virtuous) have acted in defiance
of United Nations decisions.
“But now, as Mr. Nehru
repeatedly points out, the
United Nations can make no
claim whatever on China for
civilised international behav-
ior ; by rejecting the annual
Indian initiative it renounces
responsibility for a country
with more than a fifth of the
population of the world.
“Arguments about ‘rewarding
aggression’ should be seen as
irrelevant, for (in spite of the
phrase in the Charter about
‘peace-loving States’) member-
ship of the United Nations is
not a sort of Sunday-school
prize; it is, far more, the


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
acceptance of a set of obliga-
tions. The Peking Govern-
ment should be asked to accept
them as soon as possible.
“Its response cannot be fore-
told, but with the removal of
the barrier kindly erected by
the United States and those
who follow its lead, Peking
would no doubt erect its own.
It would, for instance, refuse
membership on the ‘two
Chinas’ principle. But the
United Nations cannot be
expected to expel Marshal
Chiang Kai-shek’s Govern-
ment. It is as much in effective
control on Formosa as Mr. Liu
Shao-chi’s is on the mainland.
There need be no bargaining
about this.
“There would be no conflict
with the letter or the spirit of
the Charter if the Communists
represented China (on the
Security Council as well as in
the Assembly) and the
Nationalists represented For-
mosa. If the Chinese Govern-
ment does not like this arrange-
ment, let it have the responsi-
bility of rejecting it.”
Beating Strontium 90
A fter noting, in a letter to
the “New York Times,”
that “it is not unlikely that
some tens of thousands of
Americans will die of bone-
cancer and leukemia and per-
haps also other diseases”
induced by the strontium 90
already deposited by nuclear-
bomb tests, Nobel Prize-winner
Linus Pauling, of the Calif-
ornia Institute of Technology,
proposes a remedy:
“Strontium 90 gets into our
bodies by way of the food that
we eat. One preventive measure
would be to remove the stron-
tium 90 from our food. This
might be achieved, but it now
seerps that the processes will
remain so complicated and
expensive as not to permit their
general use.
“There is, however, a simple
way of diminishing signifi-
cantly the amount of strontium
90 built into our bones. This
way consists of adding to our
diet some calcium-compound
free of strontium 90.
“Atoms of strontium 90 are
built into bodies in places
normally occupied by atoms of
calcium. There is competition
between the strontium-90 atoms
and the calcium atoms, and the
amount of strontium 90 built
into the bones is determined
by the ratio of strontium 90
to calcium in the ingested food.
If this ratio were to be
decreased to one-half its value
the amount of strontium 90
built into the bones would also
be decreased to one-half, and
the number of cases of bone-
cancer and leukemia caused by
strontium 90 would be cut in
half.
“It is possible to achieve
this result by adding to the
diet an amount of calcium free
of strontium 90 equal to the
amount of calcium in the food.
“Calcium is the one element
that is most likely to be
deficient in the diet of Ameri-
cans. The recommended
amount of calcium is about
one gramme a day, with some-
what larger amounts (1.5 or 2.0
grammes) for adolescents and
during pregnancy and lactation.
Tablets of dicalcium-phos-
phate, calcium-gluconate and
other compounds of calcium
are available in drugstores for
the treatment or prevention of
calcium-deficiency.
“Six tablets of dicalcium-
phosphate per day, each tablet
containing one-half gramme,
would provide 0.9 gramme of
calcium per day, approximately
equal to the amount contained
in the food. If the tablets con-
tained no strontium 90 this pre-
ventive measure would result
in a body-burden of strontium
90 only half as great as if the
measure were not taken, and
would cut in half the chance of
incurring leukemia or bone-
cancer caused by strontium 90.
“It is, of course, important
that the dicalcium-phosphate
be free from strontium 90. It
is likely that the preparations
—Washington “Post.”
“I’LL SIT-IN ON THESE MEETINGS. I CAN
TRAVEL ANYWHERE, TOO!"
now available in drugstores are
made from limestone that is
not contaminated with stron-
tium 90. However, we should
make an effort to get the manu-
facturers of the products to
state on the labels that the
dicalcium-phosphate or other
calcium-compound is free from
strontium 90.”
After stressing the inexpen-
siveness of preparing and distri-
buting the compounds through
school and Government
authorities, Pauling notes that
“another way to aid in the
decrease in the amount of
strontium 90 built into the
bones would be to add calcium-
carbonate (free from strontium
90) to bread, as was done in
England during World War 11.
This action was taken to com-
bat calcium-deficiency.
“Still another measure that
might be taken simultaneously
is the addition of a calcium-
compound (free of strontium
90) to the feed of milk-cattle,
Dicalcium-phosphate is some-
times used as a cattle-feed
additive for calcium-deficiency.
The amount of strontium 90
in milk might be cut in half in
this way.
“Our Governpient, together
with the Governments of the
U.S.S.R. and Great Britain, is
responsible for having polluted
the world with strontium 90. I
believe that our Government
should take whatever action is
feasible to decrease the harm
of this radioactive poison.”
U.S. Wool Quota
“Yorkshire Post’s” wool-
trade correspondent notes
that “there will be gratification
throughout the [U.K.] wool-
textile industry that the
United States Government, at
the request of the U.K., has
agreed to renegotiate the wool-
cloth tariff-quota,
“This is the controversial
measure, operated under an
‘escape’ clause in United States
G.A.T.T. engagements, which
enables her almost to double
the duty on wool-cloth imports
as soon as they reach, in any
year, the equivalent of 5 per
cent, by weight of domestic
similar production,
“It has functioned with


RuHt in iAc
]Fi4s§M*e
\
Australia’s stimulating record in the past year
has been receiving notable attention overseas.
In one of its recent issues “The Director,”
London-edited journal of the Institute of Directors,
appraised Australia as a field for British investment
and referred to the extent to which several countries
are setting out to do trade with us.
Lord Chandos, who knows Australia well, is
President of the Institute. Its distinguished Council
includes some of the most influential industrialists
in the United Kingdom.
There is every reason why Britain, the United
States and other friendly investing nations should
be -looking favourably at Australia now. Our
prevailing conditions fully justify the statement of
Mr. Eugene R. Black, President of the International
Bank—quoted by “The Director” —that Australia
in recent years has shown how effectively it can
overcome economic difficulties as they arise.
The proof of that is all around us. In theory,
1959 might have been expected to be an “average”
year, at best. Wool prices, for some months, were
in decline. But what do we find?
The demand for investment reaches a point at
which good, sound shares are actually in shortage.
Invitations to lend at fixed rates of interest meet
with a ready response. The new short-term loan
market is thriving.
Commonwealth loans have been over-subscribed
by nearly £9O-million more than was aimed at
officially when the 1958-59 financial year began.
Capital continues to come in from overseas
in various ways—through the establishment of
subsidiaries, arrangements for joint ownership and
management, and the purchase of shares in
Australian companies.
It is a well-rounded illustration of how faith
can beget faith in the powering-on of our present
Australian effort.
This strong investment-sense is a thoroughly
good sign. But we should be careful to see that the
greater part of this finance, from home and abroad,
is directed to productive expansion that will bring
both strength and balance to the national economy.
special severity against Britain’s
stylish wool fabrics, which can
be made only to seasonal
requirements against definite
orders, and, conversely, has
favored the cheaper plain goods
of certain other countries.
“Ironically, these are the
goods which the United States
has least need to import. The
quota has thus been self-defeat-
ing from the United States’
own viewpoint and as frustrat-
ing to the American clothing-
industry, which wants highly-,
styled British fabrics, as to
British exporters who have
been prevented from supplying
them in normal volume.”
However, the same writer
adds, “while it is good to
know that the United States
is willing to renegotiate, over-
optimism as to the outcome
would be decidedly premature
at this stage.
“The United States has re-
opened the door for review,
but complicated legal and
administrative processes must
now follow, and, under the
most favorable conditions,
revision cannot be expected
before January, 1961.
“Behind the complicated
question of the tariff-quota on
wool cloth is the fact that all
wool goods in the American
market, whether home-pro-
duced or imported, suffer in
competition with non-wool
textiles because the American
woolgrower is paid a higher
than world price for his clip.
To secure this price for him, a
correspondingly heavy duty is
placed on imported raw wool,
and this is added to the pro-
tective duty on imported wool
goods.
“The United States thus
becomes one of the highest-
priced countries in the world
for wool-products, for, in
order to give the domestic
grower a subsidy of about
£lO million per year on his
woolclip, the American public
is paying about £B6 million
per year more than would
otherwise be necessary because
of measures to bring all other
prices into line.
“It is hardly surprising,
therefore, that the United
States today consumes no
more wool per head of popula-
tion than before the war,
though her consumption of
man-made fibres has increased
threefold as the wool and
related duties serve as protec-
tion to man-made fibres by
reducing the competitive power
of wool goods.
“This is the United States’
own problem, but when Ameri-
can wool-textile manufacturers
endeavor —as they have done
in recent times —to make wool-
cloth imports of relatively
modest size into a scapegoat
for their difficulties, it seems
appropriate to point out that
the solution of those diffi-
culties lies much nearer home.”
Dragnet Digest
London “New Statesman”:
“The manner of Mr. Khrush-
chev’s descent on Washington
was devastatingly character-
istic of modern Soviet civilisa-
tion. The immense resources
of Soviet rocketry were
marshalled to bring-off the
near-impossibility of a sucess-
ful moon-shot to coincide with
his arrival. They succeeded,
and Mr. Nixon’s sour allega-
tion that three similar shots
failed merely underlines the
magnitude of the achievement.
“The American people were
troubled and impressed—as
their sombre welcome showed
—but the effect was slightly
spoilt, as the press was quick
to note, by the unflattering
array of dowdy garments worn
by the Khrushchev Women-
folk as they stepped off their jet.
Here was the twin face of Com-
munism: an unrivalled ability
to reach out into the techno-
logical future; a startling
indifference to the creature-
comforts of the present.”
• * *
Edward Crankshaw, in Edin-
burgh “Scotsman”: “The
Soviet Union led by Mr. Khru-
shchev is very different from
the Soviet Union of a quarter
of a century ago when Stalin
was coming out on top. Stalin
was able to impose himself on
a backward and fragmented
society and moulded in his own
image. But Khrushchev has
inherited a highly integrated
and very much more advanced
society.
“This society depends for its
proper functioning no longer
on the will of a dictator but on
the abilities of countless highly
gifted men and women who
have to be given scope if they
are to do their work properly,
and upon millions of skilled
and educated workers whose
steady pressure for improved
standards of living has to be
taken into account. In other
words, the leader of the
U.S.S.R., in the second half
of the 20th century, can no
longer do what he likes ; he
has to adapt himself to a going
concern and rely on guidance,
rather than force, to make it
move in the way he wants it to
move.”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, *’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; £ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire; £2 13s. 6d. Foreign; £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965. Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques .
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
Comprehensive Personal Inquiry
WOOL MARKETING
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
Writing from his West-
ralian property, Pyn-
up, F. E. Hitchens
says he’s only caught-
up with The Bulletin wool-
issue since his return from over-
seas, mentions an article on
marketing in that issue which
“very ably presents a side of
the wool-argument which com-
paratively rarely appears,” and
goes on to report some find-
ings of his own after discus-
sions with leaders of the trade
in Bradford and elsewhere. He
has made a detailed report to
the president of the Australian
Wool and Meat Producers’
Federation.
Mr. Hitchens set-out to find
answers to the following
questions:
Would the U.K. trade consider
a Reserve Price Plan more favor-
ably now than in 1950?
Has the N.Z. plan been beneficial
to the trade?
Is the instability of prices under
the present system harmful to wool?
To what extent does wool-price
instability—as compared with the
stable price of man-made fibres —
encourage the use of the latter?
Does it encourage the use of
blends?
Does instability encourage the
use of “Futures” as an insurance
against risk of loss on stocks?
To what extent are “Futures”
used for purely speculative
purposes?
To what extent do manufac-
turers buy their supplies “forward”
ai an agreed price from buying-
agents operating on primary
markets?
Are wool-stocks above normal
at the present time?
Tt was generally agreed that
the New Zealand scheme
had been a success. Its greatest
test came at the end of the
1957-58 season. Rumors were
current that N.Z. would be un-
able to maintain the same
reserve-price basis for the
coming year—that some of the
bought-in stocks would have
to be sold. Crossbred prices
fell and “the market became
lifeless.” Then, well before the
opening sales, the announce-
ment was made that the same
reserve-price would be main-
tained throughout 1958-59:
“There was an immediate
price-recovery in top prices.
Crossbreds rose well above
Merino parity and remained
there throughout the It
was stated, as a trade opinion,
that N.Z. growers had probably
received several pence a lb.
more for the cli than would
have been possible without a
reserve-price.
On the administrative side,
bought-in stocks have been
sold “very favorably” and
those still in hand “should
yield, a substantial profit.”
As an example of the manner
in which temporary slack can
be taken-up, Hitchens says that
the bulk of N.Z. lambs’-wool
comes on the market in a com-
paratively short period. In the
year just passed, the big offer-
ing exceeded the immediate
demand, a “fairly big quantity”
was bought-in by the N.Z.
Wool Commission at the
reserve-price and was shipped
to London, where it found a
ready sale “as soon as normal
demand rose and ‘spot’ wool
commanded a premium.”
The New Zealand reserve-
price is considered “realistic,”
and if the trade ever gives its
blessing to an Australian
reserve-price plan it will be be-
cause of the New Zealand pre-
cedent, Hitchens thinks.
“However,” Hitchens con •
tinues, “the fate of Australian
growers lies in Australia, not
in Bradford.” Nothing in his
report should be allowed to
obscure that fact, or present it
in the wrong perspective, he
adds.
Asa general conclusion: “It
is certain that the British
trade is not unduly concerned
about the results of price fluctu-
ations. It is a game in which
they have vast experience and
few of the big operators ever
go broke. There is always a
certain attraction in anything
that will reduce or remove the
risk of loss. But the same
process also removes, to an
equal degree, the prospect of
any fortuitous gain. Moreover,
most of them love the tradi-
tional gamble. That I believe
to be the majority view. But
there are exceptions. It is,
perhaps, significant that signs
of a more favorable disposition
towards a reserve-price are
to be found nearer to the
actual wool-user than is evi-
dent among the merchant-
traders.”
There are, however, real
fears that a reserve-price
organisation might fail through
bad policies, or under severe
financial stress.
Chief objections put forward
were the danger of Government
interference and political pres-
sures, the temptation to put the
reserve-price too high, thereby
making wool too dear in com-
parison with other textiles, in-
sufficient finance to hold
bought-in stocks, resulting in
premature re-selling and further
decline of prices, and “the
general knowledge of the exist-
ence and quantity of bought-in
wool.”
These, Hitchens comments,
are elementary objections, and
provision had been made for
them in the original plan.
“On the question of finance
the situation had, admittedly,
changed, but I thought Brad-
ford must accept the main
responsibility for the pro-
tracted negotiations which led
to the defeat of the original
plan and must now rely upon
us to provide sufficient capital,
by the best means available,
before embarking on such an
undertaking. The truth of this
was acknowledged.”
The U.K. trade is not likely
to push for a reserve-price
scheme —that is a question for
the woolgrowers to decide for
themselves. But Hitchens
thinks that if introduced it will
be accepted, “willingly or
otherwise,” and he can see no
reason why it should not win
the same confidence as the New
Zealand scheme.
“\TS7Tm rare exceptions,” the
general opinion is that
instability of wool-prices does
not encourage greater use of
man-made fibres, Hitchens
says :
“The consideration of rela-
tive prices does become import-
ant when wool is abnormally
high—as in 1950. Normal
price-fluctuations, as of recent
years, are not considered very
important to manufacturers.
They average-out over the
season, and hope to gain
profits from cheap purchases.”
The above applied equally
to the adoption of blending.
Only one man —a top-maker
and spinner—said that wool-
price instability was a con-
siderable factor. He called it
a “constant headache,” and
said it encouraged the use of
blends. This man blended to
fill orders, never from choice.
“They all agree that public
demand decides what sort of


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman ; F. W. DUESBURY, Deputy
Chairman; ALFRED S. WHITE, A. G. PARKER.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Manager.
'Phone: BU 7401 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
material manufacturers make.
Their object is to produce
whatever will sell most readily.
I personally think the British
manufacturers’ traditional love
of wool still persists, and can
be counted on up to a reason-
able point, but certainly not
to the point of producing at
a loss. They have no love
for synthetics, and no doubts
as to their defects. The belief
seems general that the syn-
thetics boom of popularity is
passing, and many dissatisfied
users will not again be per-
suaded to purchase the same
type of materials.
“They argue that synthetics
constantly replace each other.
When one for which extrava-
gant claims have been made
proves unsatisfactory, another
type is on the market, backed
by new claims of excellence.”
Hitchens remarks that he has
seen samples of publicity for
the new terylene-wool mixture
cloths about to come on the
market. The present standard
blend is 55 per cent, terylene,
45 per cent. wool. The new
produce is 65 per cent, wool
and 35 per cent, terylene:
“The excellence of the tery-
lene will be emphasised, whilst
the greater wool-content, which
will remedy past defects, is so
much less prominently dis-
played as to almost pass
unnoticed. Surely this provides
a golden opportunity for wool-
promotion!”
he was in England
’’ Hitchens saw synthetics,
and blended goods offered at
bargain prices in shops “every-
where.”
He conceded that this may
have been normal seasonal
practice, but says that woollen
goods were not reduced to any
great extent.
But there was a variety of
opinion on many of the sub-
jects raised. In contrast to
some of the views on blend-
ing, a “very experienced man
in the trade” thought that the
general trend was towards
universal blending of cotton,
wool and man-made fibres.
Hitchens’s comment: “No
one has yet shown me what
benefit wool, as a fibre, can
gain by attempting to popu-
larise fabrics other than pure
wool. No greater proportion
of wool will be used than the
man-made-fibre people—who
advocate the blends—find
necessary to produce saleable
goods.”
The trade itself, Hit-
chens reports, is sharply
divided on the subject of
blends, and this is likely to
prevent —temporarily, anyway
—participation in a joint wool-
promotion campaign. Those
making pure-wool materials
aren’t keen to put-up money
to promote the sale of blends.
Those making blends won’t
contribute to publicity which
excludes their own goods.
“I was told, in the strongest
possible terms, that whatever
policy is adopted in wool-
promotion, it should be recog-
nised that wool cannot com-
pete with man-made fibres on
a price-cutting basis for raw
materials,” he added.
“It was quoted how, at the
lowest point of the recent
“Ha —so you Want to resign? But think of your
superannuation , laddie !”
recession, wool-tops were hard
to sell at 90d. a lb., whilst man-
made-fibre tops sold in
increased quantities at 120 d. a
lb. That nearly crystallizes the
argument already stated.”
TV/Tr. Hitchens also made a
number of inquiries into
wool-futures. Clive Hall, of
Clive Hall Pty., Ltd., has been
the leading advocate of wool-
futures in this country. Some
time back The Bulletin ran
articles by Mr. Hall on the
subject, and in various publi-
cations throughout the country
the theme, with variations, has
been cropping-up under Mr.
Hall’s name since.
Also, in the first Chislett
Report on Wool Marketing the
section on futures seems to
derive from Mr. Hall’s writings,
and at the Wool Inquiry in
Sydney, when Mr. Hall was
in the box, a lengthy piece was
read into the evidence which
is substantially the same as the
earlier Bulletin articles.
More recently, in the
Federal House, the question
of a greasy-wool futures-
market in Australia has been
raised by Mr. Fairbairn, M.P.,
who apparently is for it: Mr.
Hitchens is not. He says that
such a system could not be
used extensively by growers
with advantage, although
individuals might have “a lucky
gamble.”
The . successful use of
futures, Hitchens points out,
depends on making a correct
judgment of future market-
fluctuations and dealing in
contracts before they occur.
Equally correct judgment is
necessary in deciding when to
cancel the contract by selling
or buying: “Otherwise it is
merely a gamble.”
Also, “because of the usual
and sometimes considerable
variations in price between
future and ‘spot’ market-
prices, it is impossible to fully
insure against loss, and the
operator may be worse off
than if no such safeguard has
been attempted.” And “If a
trader tried to cover all the
risk on all transactions for a
lengthy period, it would be
found that nothing had been
gained by hedging instead of
having averaged-out the gains
and losses over the same
transactions.”
- Hitchens thinks that if
it were true that futures are
necessary as a trade-safeguard
in Merino wool, then they
should be equally necessary in
crossbred wool. But “in fact,
trading is almost entirely con-
fined to Merinos, with an
almost insignificant proportion
of the volume of crossbreds
ever covered.”
His conclusions: “T h e
futures-trade is nothing new.
It is perfectly legal and there
to stay. It is of no value to
the growers. The legitimate
need for futures and the specu-
lative opportunity it offers
would be greatly reduced by
any stabilising influence in the
primary markets —such as a
reserve-price.”
Hitchens, of course, has
for many years been in favor
of a reserve-price for wool.
A former president of the
Australian Wool and Meat
Producers’ Federation and one
of the authors of the post-1.0.
Plan, he has explained his point
of view (as well as some of
the diverting history of rival
growers’ organisations) in his
book Tangled Skeins.
Tt is impossible to get a
reliable estimate of the pro-
portion of wool “bought for-
ward” from buying agencies,
he further states. It is
“certainly considerable,” and is
regarded as normal trade-
practice in any raw materials.
“Someone has to carry the
burden of holding stocks along
the long line to manufacturers,
and it is always claimed that
top-makers and spinners do not
make unduly high profits.”
And, “Similarly with ‘lot-
splitting.’ It is seldom admitted
that this has any real effect
on price over a given period.”
About all this, Hitchens
has his own opinions:
No one has convinced me that
a considerable proportion of the
wool “sold forward” at a given
price before it has been offered
(Continued on page 49)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Superannuation
“Elanora” has good reason
to doubt the blessings of
superannuation these days (B.
23/9/’59).
I understand it is common
for Government employees to
resign shortly before reaching
the compulsory age for retire-
ment so as to get their super-
annuation-contributions in a
lump sum.
This amount, perhaps. £3OOO,
together with money in the
bank in excess of £4OO, is then
used to- purchase a home if
they haven’t one, to buy all
mod.-cons, or to take an over-
seas trip. Some of the capital
might be invested in a small
annuity so as to return an
income of up to £7 a week.
They are then eligible for the
full age-pension and the
various concessions referred to
by “Elanora,” which are worth
at least a pound a week to a
married couple.
Any objection to this course
of action should take into
account that the Government
employee is compelled to pro-
vide for his old age by means
of superannuation-payments;
that the pound he pays-in
buys much more than the
pound he receives; and that
he, as well as private employees
and employers, provides the
money that pays age-pensions.
Attitudes have changed
since the first age-pension—
10s. a week —was introduced
by the Deakin Government in
1909. It was then intended to
help a person to avoid destitu-
tion in his old age. Nowa-
days it is regarded by the
majority as a right for all and
the means-test as a tax on
thrift.
The obvious solution is
gradual elimination of the
means-test. —M. J. D. (N.S.W.).
Pharmacies
“Ceg” (B. 16/9/’59) is surely
mistaken in attributing any
professional resentment of
their shop-work to pharma-
ceutical chemists. Their three-
year training-period has always
been on a half-commercial,
half-scientific basis, which
couldn’t possibly leave them
with any illusions about their
future. In fact, their first year
of apprenticeship is spent
wholly in the shop, where
sweeping, cleaning and serv-
ing are part of every day.
Such professional . trade-
marks as leeches, lolly-water
and carboys are hard to find
because the old hocus-pocus
no longer sells/ very well to
the majority of people ; but the
new gimmicks bargains,
“Guess what, Angel-face , she's Walking-out on me!"
glitter and island-counters—-
do attract the crowd, so Mr.
Average Chemist must, of
necessity, install them if he
wants to make a living: he
can’t afford to rely on prescrip-
tions alone.
Admittedly he has the Gov-
ernment Health Scheme be-
hind him and is paid a dis-
pensing-fee of Is. 6d. for each
prescription, but if he employs
an assistant —and most do—
at a rate of £25 for 40 hours
(i.e., 12s. 6d. an hour), he
can’t afford to have this man
spend more than seven
minutes’ working-time on any
one prescription. This time-
limit includes customer-atten-
tion, book-work (entry, index,
pricing and tally-sheet), dis-
pensing, wrapping and, finally,
more customer-attention.
If the time-limit is exceeded
the mark-up of 33| per cent,
is automatically depleted—
just when this had been hope-
fully earmarked for such,
items as general overhead and
commensurate pay for the
owner of the shop (working
from 50 hours a week upward).
Sometimes the time-limit is
met, of course, and sometimes
it isn’t; but for such com-
mercial crises as these it is
obvious how valuable is that
professional calm which
realises the importance of
attracting other types of cus-
tomers as well —so over again
to the bargains, the glitter and
the island-counters.
It will be interesting to see
how many pharmacies have
time to reach the milk-bar and
juke-box stage of development,
as in 1960 Sydney University
is raising pharmacy to a full-
time four-year degree-course
to be followed by one com-
pulsory year in a shop.
With this in view, some old
hands are gloomily predicting
a shortage of pharmaceutical
chemists, but it seems more
probable that a completely
new genus will emerge instead,
and in its struggle to survive
it may evolve a new and differ-
ent form of hocus-pocus to
entice its willing victims. —
Terry (N.S.W.).
“Ceg” has fairly hit the pill
with the pestle. The point he
makes was stressed by D. 0.
Jordan, Angas Professor of
Physical and Inorganic
Chemistry, at the 22nd confer-
ence of the Pharmaceutical
Association of Australia.
The subject of his address
was “Pharmacy at the Cross-
roads,” and he told delegates
that too often the function of
the pharmacy is submerged
under the sale of goods which
in no way can be regarded as
part of the functions of a
pharmacy. This, he thought,
represented a frustration of
the true profession of
pharmacy, and he went on to
warn chemists that if they
didn’t improve their profes-
sional status they would lose
it.
One commentator, in the
“Nation,” put it this way:
The chemist lives in two worlds,
his head in an ivory tower, his feet
in a bargain-basement. On the
bne hand, he is a professional man
with a wisftul eye on a code of
ethics; on the other, a business-
man with a watchful eye on the
cash-register.
Of course the reply of the
retail-chemist would be that
his turnover must be main-
tained and built-up by selling
other lines than medicaments.
That might be all right where
large turnover is linked with
small profit-margins, but with
the pharmacist that particular
dog won’t jump. His profits
seem to range anywhere be-
tween 50 and 75 per cent. —
and. in some cases nearer 100
per cent. —as can be checked
by a perusal of the “Australian
Journal of Pharmacy.”
Harry the Horse (Vic.).
Aid for Church Schools
The political hot-potato of
“State aid for church-schools”
is once more being tossed
about in Queensland. It has
been raised in the past by the
Roman Catholic Church, but
has always been avoided as a
“sectarian issue.” This time it
was raised by Anglican Bishop
Shevill, of North Queensland,
who claimed that the State,
with its crop of new high-
schools, was making the pace
so hot for his church-schools
that they were feeling the
pressure badly.
Church-schools have never
been so well set-up, but their
enrolments are slowly falling.
The reason is that parents,
much as they’d like to, can’t
afford to pay the fees neces-
sary to keep church-schools up
with State-schools. If the
present pressure is kept up,
church-schools must either


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
F. 8. WATSON, Manager.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
become the retreats of the
wealthy or go to the wall.
The churches were providing
secondary schools in Queens-
land at a time when there were
very few State-schools. It seems
hardly fair that they should
now be pushed out of exist-
ence by thoughtless Govern-
ment policy. Enthusiasts for
State education-systems often
want to see no other tradition
of education survive but their
own.
Financial aid has already
been given by the Govern-
ment to church-foundations in
tertiary education. Churches
were already providing resi-
dential accommodation in the
University, so the Government,
rather than compete, helped
them to raise their standards
by grants. If it can be done
for churches which provide
residential accommodation for
scholars at a tertiary level, then
why not at the secondary
level?
The State itself provides no
boarding-schools for children
from isolated areas. State aid
has been granted to church-
schools in the U.K. and, I
believe, in the Australian
Capital Territory. It’s high
time the Queensland Govern-
ment gave the matter serious
consideration. —F. G. (Q.).
Anti-Lawson
Pat Lawlor’s praise of Aus-
tralian courtesy and friendli-
ness is justified, but why
attribute them to the influence
of Henry Lawson’s “mate-
ship”? Many Australians
have never liked either Law-
son’s writings or his particular
conception of “democracy”;
and non-Lawsonians are not,
as a rule, less courteous or
good - neighborly than are
Lawson-admirers.
Personally I could never
enjoy Henry’s writings— apart
from some of his verse—any
more than I could like those
of Dickens. After reading
some Lawson short-stories in
boyhood I conceived a dislike
of rural Australia that con-
tinued into adult life. Several
nature - writers notably
Donald MacDonald, Alec
Chisholm, Alex Hamilton,
Charles Barrett and H. C.
Lamond were primarily
responsible for changing my
attitude to the Australian bush-
land. I didn’t come across any
of their writings until my late
twenties. Chisholm’s Nature
Fantasy in Australia opened
my eyes to the interest of the
rural areas around Sydney.
Some of the works of ldriess,
Upfield and Hatfield also
helped to eradicate the impres-
sion of outback Australia I
had gained from Lawson.
As with many of my
acquaintances, Lawson’s politi-
cal outlook never appealed to
me. It had too strong an
undercurrent of 19th-century
urban English radicalism.—
Cunedda (N.S.W.).
Australia and N.Z.
I support Pat Lawlor’s con-
tention (B. 9/9/’59) that there
is no animosity between Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, but a
word of warning to Australian
tourists might be in order.
The Matson and Shaw-Savill
lines are such frequent callers
at N.Z. ports that Maorilanders
take tourists who have really
been around as part of the
scenery. Aussies are small-fry
among travellers, and can’t
hope to get away with any-
thing simply because they’re
from overseas. On a recent tour
I found Enzedders friendly
and interested, but not pop-
eyed with wonder about Aus-
tralia. — C. Clarke (Vic.).
Policy on Phones
“Phony” (B. 9/9/’59) seems
to have some misconceptions
about rentals for telephone-
exchange services.
The objective of the new
charges is to ensure a reason-
able overall return to the
P.M.G.’s Department for the
services it provides. In deter-
mining the increases the aim
has been to distribute the total
revenue as equitably as possible
among the various classes of
telephone-users.
Generally speaking, rentals
for telephone-services are
designed to cover yearly
expenses incurred by way of
interest on capital-outlay and
maintenance and depreciation
of plant, whilst fees for calls
are applied to compensate for
the costs of providing, operat-
ing and maintaining facilities.
“Phony” argues that, based
on the cost of a telephone-
instrument, and even allowing
for maintenance, the depart-
ment fnust make a handsome
profit on rentals. But the pro-
vision of a telephone-service
entails not only installing a
telephone on the subscriber’s
premises—a relatively inexpen-
sive item —but also the use of
costly plant such as conduits
and underground cable, poles
and wire, exchange and
metering-equipment and the
buildings to accommodate
apparatus.
In the aggregate the cost of
all these items is appreciable
and must be considered when
framing rental charges. Indeed,
it has been determined that,
overall, the capital-cost of
providing services averages
some £290, for each line. This
amount, incidentally, does not
take into account the recurring
expense of maintenance.
Although in recent years
there have been progressive
increases in costs due to factors
beyond the department’s con-
trol, main telephone-charges
have not changed since 1956.
In some cases —e.g., metro-
politan local calls and country
rentals —they have not changed
since 1951. Increases in the
basic-wage since 1951 have
added more than £22 million
to the yearly cost of operating
and maintaining services, while
other inescapable extra expen-
diture associated with prices of
materials, etc., has raised
additional yearly expenses to
about £3O million.
Although telephone-operat-
ing profits have been recorded
in recent years, the need for
expanded and additional facili-
ties including exchanges,
trunk-lines, cables, subscribers’
services and the like —to meet
the growing demands of
industry and the community
generally has been increasing,
and will continue to increase.
During the past five years
Post Office capital-expenditure
has totalled close •on £2OO
million. These funds have been
provided from Consolidated
Revenue, and the Government
has decided that it would be
fair to expect charges to
telephone-users not only to
recoup operating- and main-
tenance-costs but also to
ensure a reasonable return on
new capital used.
The revised telephone-
charges must also be looked at
against the approved new
national telephone policy,
which will give telephone-
subscribers access to extended
local-service areas at the local-
call fee. As from May, 1960,
exchanges will be grouped in
zones based on community of
interest, and calls within a
zone and between adjacent
zones will be treated as
untimed local calls. A typical
country subscriber will be able
to get local service over a much-
wider area than at present.
The policy is explained in
detail in the recent White
Paper, “Progress Policy
Plans.”— M. R. C. Stradwick,
Director-General, Postmaster-
General’s Department.
A startling feature of the
P.M.G.’s Department’s new
financial policy has been dis-
covered at Narromine (N.S.W.).
Until now, in the drive to
replace manual telephone-
exchanges with automatics,
rural automatic exchanges have
been installed to serve a radius
of five miles. The department
covers the cost of the first five
miles of line, so that most sub-
scribers to date have received
automatic services very
cheaply.
Apparently the department
found this system too expen-
sive. During the next few
years Narromine- is to become
the centre of the first fully-
automatic telephone-district in
the State.
Each exchange will be
designed to serve a radius of


10 miles. This means that
subscribers within five miles of
the exchange will still be con-
nected very cheaply. But
subscribers more than five
miles from the exchange, or
more than half-a-mile from a
departmental line, will have
to pay for their own lines. In
some cases the cost will be
£5OO or more.
This would not be so bad
if the subscriber were getting
something new. Rural elec-
tricity is very expensive, too ;
but it is also a profitable
proposition. You can pay-off
“ Unk , I'd like you to meet an old friend of mine."
the initial cost of electricity if
you use it enough. But to
replace a reasonable (in most
cases) telephone-service with
one only slightly better at a
cost of £5OO or more would be
financial lunacy.
Furthermore, there is no
attempt to spread the cost of
the new lines. On one line
shortly to be erected the sub-
scriber closest to the exchange
will be connected for about
£45. The most-distant sub-
scriber will have to fork-out
£450. These are conservative
estimates based on the use of
secondhand materials where
possible, and the subscriber’s
own labor for installation.
Why should one man be
penalised simply because he
lives further from an arbi-
trarily placed exchange than
another?
Unless this policy is changed
many landholders will have to
go without any telephone-
service at all, this being the
only alternative. They just
will not be able to stand the
cost. — Gilgai (N.S.W.).
An Embarrassing Shortage
A sturdy old Australian say-
ing, descriptive of incom-
petence, is that such-and-such
a person isn’t fit to run a
country lavatory ; or words to
that effect. What the expres-
sion loses in delicacy it picks-
up in pungent color, particu-
larly for those with memories
of rural scenery.
Now, perhaps, with the
spread of modern architecture
and a general somersaulting of
rural and urban amenities —
the acrobatics sparked-off,
probably, by high wool-prices
in the immediate post-war years
—many of the old landmarks
have disappeared. It might
even be argued that the pioneer
of today is to be found, not
back of Bourke or out from
Yass (to take N.S.W. examples),
but in Pitt Street, Sydney.
Strap-hanging to work,
risking death every afternoon
at Wynyard when the five-to-
six mob sweeps him almost
under the wheels of the electric-
train, skipping from beneath
the bonnets of belligerent
buses and cars on week-days,
avoiding somnambulistic pedes-
trians and speed - drunk
brother-motorists on weekends,
exposed to ptomaine-poisoning
or insolvency or both when he
takes the wife or girl-friend to
a flash restaurant, paying-off
the TV-set—yes, life can be
rugged in the Big Smoke.
The countryman, even with
smaller wool-cheques, some-
how manages to battle-on —
with, say, two-thousand head
of good-cutting Merinos and
a few head of cattle bringing
current high prices—and, no
doubt, his relative prosperity is
reflected in the household
arrangements. So the old gibe
is losing some of its sting . . .
The Sydneysider, if he lives
in an outer suburb, probably
hasn’t sewerage to console him
for the rigors of his working-
day, and, on present indica-
tions, he may have to recon-
cile himself to doing without
it for some years to come.
Country people, down for
holidays at pubs or flats, tend
to take this amenity for
granted in Sydney, but the
plain fact is that much of the
metropolitan area (not to men-
tion far-flung parts like
Newport) is, like Cairo and
Bombay, unsewered; on
second thoughts, not quite like
those cities, perhaps. But,
anyway, there it is. Blame is
distributed freely between the
Metropolitan Water, Sewerage
and Drainage Board, State and
Federal Governments, and
passed back again, and it is
doubtless true that the dis-
tances involved, with the rapid
growth of population, make
things difficult.
But all that, so to speak,
flushes no toilets. Even the
Metropolitan Water, Sewerage
and Drainage Board, in other
than official usage, has
modestly taken to calling itself
“The Water Board”; as though
soft-pedalling the implications
on the middle part of its title.
Or, perhaps, it is just
modesty. The same frame of
mind which has thrown a veil
of silence over the astonishing
lack of public lavatories in the
city proper. It is possible to
walk in a straight line from the
Quay to Central Railway and
not encounter more than two
or three such places; and
similar computations may be
made in other directions. If
it were not for the hospitality
of the pubs . . . But, then,
not everyone drinks ; and some
people, particularly women,
don’t care to go into hotels.
And when the pubs are shut
the position is often aggra-
vated by some of the better-
known public resorts being
locked.
In such harrowing circum-
stances a wayfarer may well
long for the sight of one of
those old-fashioned buildings—
rusty corrugated-iron, hessian
and all.
Reticence about lavatories was
understandable in an age when
women hardly admitted having
legs; but now, when some-
thing like a ballet of female
legs can be seen on any street-
corner, when children learn
physiology at primary-school
and teenagers write about their
amorous problems to the
papers (“I am 16 and going
with a married man. Is he fair-
dinkum?”), it is difficult to
deny such a necessity.
Yet that, in effect, is what
generations of civic adminis-
trators have been doing.
Surely it is time to stop the
rot? It might be going too
far to say that Lord Mayor
Jensen, Mr. Cahill, and other
important personages would
be better occupied in building
lavatories than in promoting
an opera-house ; but it would
certainly inspire confidence in
their ability to cope with
larger problems if they could
successfully handle this minor
but pressing one.
In the absence of anything
constructive in this direction,
one falls back on that crude
old Australian expression.
Only, of course, it should be
plural, and “city” could well
be substituted for “country.” —
J. Fountain (N.S.W.).


for sale on the auction-floor does
not encourage whatever attempts
are possible to restrict prices....
A higher price must represent a
loss for the seller; a lower price
increase the profit.
Once again there is the cold fact
that “lot-splitting” and “forward-
selling” are beyond the growers’
control. They cannot be prevented
by legal or any other measures.
They are bred and thrive best
amidst conditions of price instability.
Therefore, their influence will
diminish in importance only when
more stable conditions are intro-
duced prior to sale
It is difficult to obtain reliable
information as to wool-stocks held
in private hands. There can be
little doubt that considerable stocks
of cheap wool are held by many
traders. Bradford is having the
best trade-conditions for several
years.
A ttending the London Wool
Sales in April, Hit-
chens recognised among the
Australian wool some brands
which had sold in W.A. at the
lowest auction prices of the
season. Overseas prices had
gone up about 25 per cent,
in the previous fortnight to
three weeks, so dealers must
have made a considerable
profit out of these clips.
On the other hand, wool
bought in Australia 18 months
before, at the relatively high
prices then ruling, was also
offered. This wool had been
shipped to the U.S.A., and,
when it failed to bring a satis-
factory price there, had been
sent to London, where it was
again passed-in.
Regarding the London sales,
he comments that: “It has
always been agreed that wool
available on the spot in London
attracts the competition of
many smaller traders and
tends to maintain prices there
and overseas.” However, “the
question is whether it can long
continue to achieve that
purpose.”
In London, once an import-
ant world market, the quantity
of wool now sold is “very
small in comparison with the
greatly increased world supply,”
Hitchens states, and adds:
“It has probably only sur-
vived at the present level
because of the large quantities
of surplus wool sold there
following the two World Wars
—aided, more recently, by the
periodical turnover of portion
of the U.K. strategic stockpile
and the greater quantity
shipped by the N.Z. Wool
Commission.
“Unless more wool is sold
in London its importance will
certainly diminish. Less Con-
tinental competition will attend
sales, which will become more
and more a Bradford preserve,
and lower prices will result.
Less growers’ wool will then
be shipped, and the price-
decline will continue.
“These considerations would
not be so important if the
policy and conduct of Austra-
lian auctions were satisfactory.
But, with clear evidence of our
marketings being frequently
overloaded at critical periods,
an increasingly large propor-
tion of our wool being handled
by a comparatively small group
of buyers, and the growth of
various trade-practices which
need not be enumerated, every
alternative becomes important.
“It is not suggested that the
London sales are free from
similar abuses. They are not.
But it seems reasonable to
suppose that if another
200,000-300,000 bales were
available annually in London
it would reduce the dependence
of many U.K. and Continental
smaller operators on drawing
supplies from ‘forward sellers.’
One very experienced trade
man, not personally interested,
went so far as to say that a
big modern woolstore should
be erected in, say, Amsterdam,
and several big sales should
be held there each year to cater
for that portion of the Conti-
nental trade.”
From the Continental buyers’
point of view, of course, there
would be a saving in shipping
and handling costs.
TTitchens points out that
Australian woolselling
brokers have traditionally
discouraged an increase in the
amount of wool shipped to
London. The policy seems
reasonable enough—the idea
was that Australia should be
the major wool-market, the
world should come here to buy
wool, and, therefore, the less
wool sold elsewhere the
better.
But, he remarks, the situa-
tion has changed. “A consider-
able proportion of world
demand is now channelled
through a relatively small
number of buyers, trading on
an international basis. The
question, therefore, is whether
a greater proportion of the
now greatly increased wool-
supply should be sent where
a greater number of individual
buyers can attend.
“If that policy is believed
desirable, it seems certain that
the woolgrowers themselves
must take steps to secure its
adoption, and insist that past
antagonism towards overseas
shipment is replaced by greater
co-operation between Australia
and London. The quantity of
wool likely to be involved in
these grower-shipments is
comparatively small and would
Gause little hardship to Aus-
tralian interests. One big
Australian woolselling firm has
recently become a partner in
the newly-constituted Com-
mittee of London Woolselling
Brokers.”
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 559
Across
I—Drop some preposition egg on a playwright. (10)
6—Club spice. (4) "
10— I insult a wrecked ship whose sinking insulted
Americans. (9)
11— Picca goes with this silly girl in the way. (5)
12 — No sexy treatment required for such precious stones. (6)
13 — Mug I bear into a N.S.W. fishing resort. (8)
15 —Hamlet’s address is to be written with this pen. (3)
17 —Rant inside a container for seafood. (7, 3)
21— Snows under those who beat the
daylight out of tramps—even the
time for their arrival. (10)
22 — Sundry has no sun parched by
the sun. (3)
25—P010-man’s adapted satires. (8)
27 —Hebridean exclamation of a
rabble-rousing Oriental. (6)
30 — Picca goes with this little dope,
when a baby. (5)
31 — Checks on the present collar
arrangement by monkeyless
lapels. (4, 5)
32 Kick out change to us! (4)
33 — Second’s ability questioned by
this songstress. (10)
Down
1— Opus of Lawler comes in a
lump. (6)
2 Test of a sample affirmative of
a donkey. (5)
3 The man composed a" song of
praise for some insect border. (6)
4 Luna parks badly in this
bone. (4)
5 Kelly cricketer who gives success-
ful service to King George. (5)
7 Entire ego on the little Georgia
crag is a tropical bathing
hazard. (9)
8— The Scottish johnnies of a
fenland city have heavenly
figures. (8)
9 Immovable one who had the first
garden insect. (7)
14 —A linen couch, perhaps? (4)
16—-Net men set to hold apartment
buildings. (9)
18 — Isn’t light reading provided by
thjs Australian novelist? (4)
19 — A heavenly body and nothing
but Browning’s work. (8)
20 —Call Roy Rene and Pistol’s
colleague for a word sounding
like another, but spelt differ-
ently. (7)
23 — The mouse family and its natural
enemy which may be drunk? (6)
24 — The verb here is an interest for
Pyramus. (6)
26—-Disorderly Roman opera by
Bellini. (5)
28 — Picca goes with this Miss Palmer
in a pickle. (5)
29 — How the pitch should be after
rolling off the pitch. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 558


LYS
PROOF
100 % Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
• BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
mm.
m
Ml
WmM
m.
s
»
mm,
■
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SHEEP AT MELBOURNE ROYAL
By “DIDGEROO”
A record entry of 1223
sheep at Melbourne Royal
Show justified the claim that
it was Australia’s best exhibi-
tion of British sheep. Generally
standards were high and even,
though two or three judges
A grazier’s wool clip is
of vital concern not
only to the grazier him-
selr but- also to every
thinking Australian.
Very little thought is
required to realise that
our nation’s economy
and future prosperity
is linked with her
primary industries. It
is therefore, gratifying
to note that wool prices
generally are maintain-
ing, and in fact
increasing, their high
level. Also, of concern
to every grazier would
be a too high lamb
mortality rate, since
every lamb - lost means
decreased production.
The Elastrator Rubber
Ring method of Castra-
tion and Tailing con-
siderably reduces the
risk of fly-strike and
infection, because
Elastrator Rubber Rings
provide the safest,
surest and most humane
method of Castrating
and Tailing your lambs.
warned against poor mouths
and badly-shaped feet.
Although the glare of light
from one of its walls, which
is largely constructed of glass,
worried some spectators and an
occasional judge, the new T. A.
Meaklim Sheep Pavilion won
praise for its facilities, which
allow 1500 sheep to be housed
and judged under one roof.
Premier Bolte, who opened the
pavilion, said that Australia’s
studbreeding industries were
still the backbone of its pros-
perity. This, he said, together
with the fact that Australia’s
population would probably be
doubled in 20 to 25 years, was
the reason the Government
supported these industries and
had made a contribution of
£lB,OOO towards the cost of
the pavilion.
Dorset Hon^s
The parade was led by the
Dorset Horns, which were
represented by 228 entries
from most of Australia’s best
studs. This year the judges
were two brothers, Clare and
Les Hart, of Two Wells (S.A.).
Clare Hart said the general
standard of rams was high,
with the first five sheep in
every class hard to separate.
Pairs were even stronger than
single sheep.
The champion ram, exhibited
by W. S. Martin and Sons, of
Sandy Creek (S.A.), was low-
set and well covered, with a
great outlook. Its superior
covering won it the major
honor from the entry of W. J.
Dawkins, of Newbold, Ltd.,
Gawler River (S.A.), which
was even and particularly good
at the front and back. Even
so, a Deepfields ram entered
by K. G. Luke, of Romsey
(Vic.), pressed the leaders
hard. A. Taylor, of Cudal
(N.S.W.), also penned a class-
winner.
Les Hart had a hard job
to separate the top ewes. All
prizewinners were worthy of
the highest honors, he said. All
entries were presented in first-
class order, which showed the
breed’s ability to thrive under
any conditions.
A better head won the ewe
championship for A. Taylor’s
entry, which was also slightly
lower-set than the reserve-
champion paraded by W. S.
Martin and Sons. The reserve-
champion ewe had that dense
down-type fleece which is
desirable in Dorset Horns as
an indication of good fleshing
quality. H. C. Yates and Sons,
of Yerong Creek (N.S.W.),
and A. G. and W. I. Hall, of
Romsey, also penned class-
winners in an excellent line-up.
Poll Dorsets
Poll Dorset entries ad-
vanced from 36 to 64 in an
exhibit which showed very
good general type and quality.
The judge was N. G. Stewart,
of Tatura (Vic.).
W. J. Dawkins, of Newbold,
Ltd., one of the pioneers of
the breed, won both major
championships. The champion
ram was exceptionally good
across the loin and had a fine
fleece. It had enough width
to force the entry of Rex Wil-
son, of Howlong (N.S.W.),
into reserve position.
The champion ewe had a
good carcass, but lost slightly
in the wool to the reserve-
champion entered by G. B.
and I. M. Starritt, of Kelso
Park, N.-W. Mooroopna (Vic.),
which had a stylish covering.
W. and E. Roberts Thompson,
of Table Cape (Tas.), and
John Mclntosh and Son Pty.,
Ltd., of Merrigum (Vic.), also
penned some nice sheep.
Border Leicesters
Although weakened by the
absence of George Starritt’s
and R. R. King’s teams, the
163 Border Leicesters made a
good showing—especially the
top rams.
Both championships went to
G. F. E. .Hosking and Sons,
of Kerang (Vic.). George
Starritt, who judged, said the
top ram had an excellent
fleece, though there could be
a little more masculinity in its
head.
Wilson G. J. Beer and Sons,
Nanneella South (Vic.), penned
the reserve-champion, which
probably had the best head in
the section. However, it lacked
a little depth. Yearlings were
good, but could have been
woolled a little better, especi-
ally under the ears. Some
entries also had a tendency to
legginess.
Border Leicester ewes were
judged by G. Hayes, of Bridge-
water (Vic.). The Hoskings’
champion was an outstanding
ewe which showed the best
characteristics of the breed. In
reserve position was last year’s
champion ewe, exhibited by
G. R. Hall and Son, of Swan
Hill (Vic.), which had the dis-
advantage of a strong lamb at
foot.
S. Storer, of Swan Hill
(Vic.), and Errol Hewitt, of
Warracknabeal (Vic.), were


INSURANCE -—for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £20,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 8I 3 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
among the best of the other
exhibitors, and Mrs. M.
Jeffrey, of Ventnor (Vic.), and
P. L. Coles, of Goulburn
(N.S.W.), shared the novice
awards.
English Leicesters
The 44 English Leicesters,
judged by Alec Habel, of
Hamilton (Vic.), showed an
improvement in wool over
previous years. After keen
competition, Williamson
Brothers, of Carisbrook (Vic.),
won both championships from
lan Morrish, of Blampied
(Vic.). V. Smart, of Border-
town (S.A.), did well in several
classes.
The champion ewe had a
good carcass and a ' fleece
which showed outstanding
quality, but a little more
strength than is customary in
the breed. lan Morrish’s
reserve-champion was well-
woolled.
Romney Marsh
Although down in numbers
to 91, Romney Marsh entries
were better than in previous
years, especially the ewes.
Nevertheless, Tasmanian judge
W. S. Townsend advised
breeders to watch their sheep’s
feet and walking-ability.
Ivor Manton’s (Monegeetta)
champion ram had a fine out-
look and an almost perfect
fleece. The reserve-champion
entered by Myer Emporium’s
Norman Lodge Farm-stud was
slightly past its best show-
condition but a worthy winner
all the same. Shorn classes
were very strong.
Ewe classes were good.
Howard W. Yelland and • Co.
(Newlyn) penned a strong
team to capture the champion-
ship and reserve-championship.
The two tops were very hard
to separate. Both had excep-
tionally heavy fleeces and
excellent carcass - qualities.
R. H. Meaklim’s (Mooroopna
North) entry won a blue
ribbon in the junior shorn
class.
Southdowns
Except for one or two
classes, Southdowns (160
entries) were also strong, and
kept the judge, L. Twigg, of
Cowra (N.S.W.), busy through-
out the day.
Male awards were a triumph
for L. A. Hinton and Sons, of
Vite Vite (Vic.), who captured
the championship and reserve-
championship with two sires of
similar type.
The champion ewe, paraded
by Jim Mclntosh, of Nar-Nar-
Goon (Vic.), showed plenty of
character and had a good
fleece. Reserve-champion was
entered by B. T. Bakes, of
Central Castra (Tas.).
Among the other successful
breeders were L. Hooper, of
Goorambat East (Vic.); R. J.
Heazlewood, of Whitemore
(Tas.); Richard Hughes, of
Longford (Tas.); W. and E.
Roberts Thompson, of Table
Cape (Tas.); Est. C. H.
“You Wont have to Worry any more about
firewood, Mum.”
Hawkins, of Shepparton (Vic.);
and E. W. Ham and Son, of
Goorambat (Vic.).
Ryelands
The line-up of 143 Ryelands
was the 'best in numbers and
quality to appear in the Mel-
bourne Show-ring. The judge
was T. Paternoster, of Furner
(S.A.).
Championship awards were
a triumph for Keith Drum-
mond, of Talgarno, near
Wodonga (Vic.), who captured
the double. His champion
ram handled well and paraded
stylishly. The top ewe showed
good points of covering, head,
fleshing and conformation.
The reserve - champion ex-
hibited by D. Wadelton, of
Girgarre (Vic.), pushed it
closely but lost on age.
R. Alston’s (St. Germains)
reserve-champion could not
quite match the champion in
style and covering. Other
winners in the excellent line-
ups included T. J. Lilford, of
Merrigum (Vic.); John Mc-
Intosh and Son, Pty., Ltd., of
Merrigum ; and K. O. and M
Davis, of Woodend (Vic.). -
Shropshires
With three breeders' in the
field of 16 entries, the Shrop-
shires provided a high standard
for G. J. R. Coles, of Morn-
ington (Vic.), who judged them.
One or two sheep were off-
type in skin-coloring, but flesh-
ing was generally good. This
time E. W. Ham and Son, of
Goorambat (Vic.), won both
championships from P. J.
Webb, of Culcairn (N.S.W.),
who has occasionally turned
the tables.
Suffolks
Suffolks (39 entries) provided
improved competition from five
breeders. Allen Day and Sons,
of Alma (S.A.), led both the
champion and reserve-champ-
ion rams. The champion ewe
was exhibited by Richard
Shipp and Sons, of Kerang
(Vic.), and reserve-champion
by L. T. J. Duffield, of
Wandearah (S.A.). Stanley
Porter, of Orford (Vic.), won
a class with his aged ram.
Hampshire Downs
H. A. Lindsay-Field, of
Healesville (Vic.), exhibited six
Hampshire Downs without
opposition. Both champions
were good in fleshing and bone.
The reserve-champion was a
little strong in the wool,
particularly in the breech.
Lincolns
J. A. Christie, of Byaduk
(Vic.), again entered a team
of Lincolns without opposition.
His two champions were
worthy of the honor. The
champion ewe had a faultless
fleece, said Ronald Leishman,
of Clunes (Vic.), who made
the awards.
Cheviots
One of the glamor-breeds,
Cheviots, with 194 entries, were
judged by G. M. Bryant, of
Manakau (N.Z.). General
quality compared favorably
with that in the Dominion, he
said, and sheep were wonder-
fully brought-out.
John Lyne, of Powranna
(Tas.), exhibited the champion
ram—a two-tooth which was
hard to fault. Reserve-champ-
ion was paraded by R. and K.
Metherall, of Tooradin (Vic.).
R. and K. Metherall also
showed the reserve-champion
ewe. The champion was
entered by Bowkett Brothers
of Romsey.
Corriedales
Corriedales are never
strongly represented at the
Melbourne Royal, but this
year 69 sheep were brought-
out for R. E. Wettenhall, who
judged them. General quality
was quite good and there was
neither the “tail” nor the breed-
faults of previous years.
F. K. and G. H. Mclntosh,
of Bungador (Vic.), led the
champion ram, which had a
strong head and true Corrie-
dale wool carried well down
to the points.
J. W. D. Ward and Son, of
Flinders (Vic.), showed the
champion ewe, which had a
typical Corriedale face, with a
good carcass and spring of rib.
A. E. and N. D. Mclntosh,
of Ellam (Vic.), supplied both
reserve-champions. The ewe,
in particular, showed great
promise, with its fine stance
and outlook, and good fleece.
R. H. R. Baker, of Baringhup


(Vic.), had a successful show-
ing, and B. P. Lavery, of
Melton (Vic.), won the class
for the pen of young ewes.
Fleeces
The fleece-competition drew
420 entries from New Zealand
and all States except Western
Australia. The judges—J. Page
Sharp, D. K. McKeddie, E. V.
Gayer, B. Ealy, J. B. Shearer
and R. Jennings—described the
entry as “a most attractive
selection, but generally lighter
in condition.”
Most successful exhibitor
was W. C. Greaves, of Calder-
meade (Vic.), a Royal Agricul-
tural Society councillor, who
won the Victorian champion-
ship for crossbred fleece ; first,
second and third prizes for
Border-Leicester wool; and
first, second and third prizes
for strong crossbred wool.
Australasian championships
for lambswool went to: Best
sample, T. Wade, of Goroke
(Vic.); other than Merino,
Noel Dennis, of Warncoort
(Vic.); Merino, T. Wade;
Polwarth, N. Dennis ; Corrie-
dale, L. Hayes, of Donnybrook
(Vic.); Comeback, T. A. Ballin-
tine, of Goorambat (Vic.);
Crossbred, J. D. Mcßae, of
Waitahuna (N.Z.).
Benefits of Brahman
Blood
'"Phis article deals mainly with
conditions in Queensland,
particularly in a strip running
down the coast from the
Daintree River in the north to
the N.S.W. border and extend-
ing approximately 150 miles
inland, an area which maintains
a large .percentage of Aus-
tralia’s beef-cattle.
Having some very good
fattening country, a portion of
the area is now being used for
crop-fattening, and pasture-
improvement is increasing as
large strips of the brigalow-
belt are being cleared. There
is also a considerable area of
second - class cattle - country,
coastal and semi-coastal,
stretching on both sides of the
main Dividing Range. A lot
of this has been only partially
improved by ringbarking, sub-
dividing and improvement of
watering-facilities. The cattle
in the greater part of this area
have to contend with ticks,
the control of which is
generally considered one of the
worst problems the stock-
breeder has to contend with.
It has been found that cattle
which have an infusion of
Brahman blood have a greater
resistance to the cattle-tick
than pure British breeds. It
has been noted, too, that they
have a greater tolerance of
heat and can hold their condi-
tion. longer in the poorer class
of country during the periodi-
cal dry spells or droughts
which occur with monotonous
regularity every few years.
They can also be turned-off as
fats at least 18 months younger
than pure British cattle on
this second-class type of
country.
The use of Brahman blood,
very haphazard before the
1930’5, was formerly confined
mainly to the northern part
of the State. A number of
purebred and cross Brahman
stock were imported to Queens-
land through the C.5.1.R.0.
and located on various pro-
perties in the north and central
part of the State. Closer
attention was given to select-
ing better types of crossbred
cattle, particularly as regards
docility and conformation from
a beef point of view. In later
years there have been further
importations of excellent
quality pure Brahman stock,
particularly from J. D. Hud-
gins’s ranch, in Texas (U.S.A.),
his De Manso strain cf
Brahman cattle being known
throughout the world for their
docility and heavy-beef type.
The cross-breeding experi-
ments with Indian and British
(Bos indicus and Bos taurus )
breeds of cattle are well
advanced in many parts of the
world, particularly in America ;
the best-known breed evolved
is probably the Santa Ger-
trudis, which breed has
approximately three-eighths
Brahman and five-eighths
Shorthorn blood. The beast
evolved is now breeding true to
type and is recognised as a
distinct breed. The importa-
tion of these cattle to Australia
has helped cross - breeding
plans in this country.
Santa Gertrudis bulls have
been distributed into most of
the cattle-breeding areas of
Queensland. It is being found
now, after some years of
experimenting, that in the
northern coastal parts of the
State, where ticks are very bad,
a greater percentage of
Brahman blood is needed than
further south and in tick-free
areas. In the semi-coastal
ticky areas the Santa Gertrudis
crossed with cows having a
good percentage of Brahman
blood are providing stock
better suited to withstand the
hard conditions than when they
are mated with pure British
cows.
Our own Queensland new
beef-breed, the Droughtmaster,
is very similar to the Santa
Gertrudis, but in the north
carries more of the Brahman
blood, necessary to suit the
harder conditions.
Breeders who have been
careful and selective in their
breeding-programmes have
quickly achieved remarkable
success. At the last Townsville
Show, R. Rea, of Kirnkie,
Home Hill, won all the fat-
cattle classes, both on the hoof
and on the hook, with his
Droughtmaster type of cross-
bred cattle. Carcasses dis-
played a remarkable uni-
formity and are the type needed
to suit our present trade. What
is needed is a carcass which
carries only a light covering
of fat and matures at an early
age. This is what is being
achieved by the right type of
Brahman crossbred cattle in
Queensland today, which, of
course, accounts for their in-
creasing popularity. Cattle-
breeders find it economic first
to change their breed of cattle
to suit the country, and then
improve their country after-
wards. The best method seems
to be to do both at the same
time.
The sleek-coated early-
maturing types of Brahman-
cross cattle are evidently here
to stay, but no doubt a lot of
work and patience and a clear
idea of the type required will
be needed for the continuous
advancement of the breed.
H. H. INNES
Fruit-fly
“Spin”: Fruit-fly doesn't
travel far under its own
steam ; most of its spread is
due to human agency.
That’s the conclusion drawn
from investigations in the
U.S., and on the facts it seems
logical. When flies emerge
from pupation they move
fairly rapidly, preferably
down-wind, to the nearest
vegetation which offers food
and shelter. If none is avail-
able nearby they can fly up
to eight miles to find it.
Where food is plentiful the
spread by natural means is
very slow. For this reason
the stripping of trees in in-
fested areas could do a lot
of harm, but it’s hard to see
how it can do much good.
If fruit known to attract the
fly is left, baiting and spraying
are the best means of prevent-
ing spread by natural means.
Hut these methods must be
backed-up by stopping all
movement of fruit from the
infested area. If the infesta-
tion is bad the ban should
apply to other things besides
fruit that might possibly act as
hosts, whether recognised as
such by the layman or not.
This can include roses and
some garden shrubs ; but it’s
been shown that, as the pest
comes under control, the fly
becomes more selective and
minor hosts can be released
from the ban.
While the ban is on, it must
be thoroughly applied' and
policed—and that seems the
crux of the matter as far as
Australia is concerned. Fruit-
fly has a grip over a large
part of this continent and is
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(24/9/’59)
Queensland should have moderate to good rains during
October, although the Peninsula and north-western districts
may get only light rain. Best falls are likely on the south-
coast districts, around Maranoa and on part of the Warrego,
and good rains should extend into the far-south-western
districts.
N.S.W. should receive moderate rain during October,
although part of the Central Coast and Riverina may have
only light falls. Best rains should occur on the northern
tablelands. Heavy rains and widespread flooding are likely
in November, and the whole State can expect a good season.
Good general rains are likely in Victoria during
October, with heavy falls and widespread flooding probable
in November. A go'od season may be expected in both
pastoral and agricultural areas.
South Australia should receive good general rains in
October, and reasonably good follow-on rains in November.
However, rainfall may be patchy during December.
In Western Australia there should be good rains during
October on the south-western and south-eastern districts
and around Eucla, and there may be heavier falls on the
north-eastern areas. The rest of the State will probably
have poor rainfall.
LENNOX WALKER.


HOW TO HAVE SEWERAGE
IN A NON-SEWERED AREA
•di
ilislssgsls
■MI!
m
CONVENIENTLY
ATTACHED TO HOUSE
. . . NEAT AS A FLUSH
TOILET.
YU
IHHJ
DISSOLVENATOR
STERILE SANITARY SYSTEM
OFFICIALLY TESTED AND APPROVED BY
N.S.W. BOARD OF HEALTH.
These tests proved conclusively that the eilluenl from the Dissolvenator
is bacterially sterile.
40.000 INSTALLED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage of sewerage
no matter where your home may be.
"NO GERMS . . NO EMPTYING . . NO ODOURS
NO FLIES . . NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU CAN INSTALL IT! The simple instruction-card supplied
makes it possible for any handyman to install a Hygeia.
WRITE NOW FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
Distributors:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty. Ltd., 26 Bridge St., Sydney.
ViC.: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., Bay Rd., Cheltenham.
“i A : : Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.) Ltd., 41 King William St., Adelaide.
W.A.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co., G.P.O. Box 1704 T, Perth.
: Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Collins St., Hobart. Launceston and Bumie.
QLD.: Plumbers Supplies Pty. Ltd., 177 Barry Pde., Valley, Brisbane.
becoming more difficult to
destroy each year. The prob-
lem will have to be tackled
on a national basis eventually.
That’s the first point which
must be accepted.
Secondly, it is necessary to
restrict all species of the flies
to their present localities. The
discovery that the fly doesn’t
move very far under its own
steam should clarify the issue
considerably. It means that
movement of fruit must be
controlled. Sometimes fumi-
gation may give sufficient in-
surance, but often a complete
ban may be necessary. Either
way is costly, but will save
millions when we finally begin
the big drive against the pest.
Meanwhile it’s worth stress-
ing that where fly appears any
great distance from a known
infested area it was certainly
taken there in fruit. If the
person taking fruit into a
clean area knows he’s com-
mitting the one act whereby
the fly can spread he may
think twice about it. Most
culprits excuse themselves by
saying that the fly would get
there anyway. They must be
convinced that it wouldn’t.
Aerial ‘Spray
“ Downsman ”: Linseed-
growers on the Darling Downs
(Q.) are waging aerial warfare
on heliothis, a type of cater-
pillar which is playing havoc
with their crops.
In a season of little rain, the
pests have appeared earlier
than usual, and have infested
thousands of acres. They
attack the plant-stems, sucking
the moisture from them. They
can be stopped by spraying
with 25 per cent. D.D.T., at
2gals. to 5 acres, and six crop-
spray planes in the Milmerran
and Pittsworth districts are
logging long hours, but still
cannot quite cope with farmers’
orders.
Cost to the farmer is
roughly 225. 6d. an acre. The
growers’ worries are under-
standable—they have 60,000
acres planted, twice as much
as last year, and the 'crop is
due for harvest in November.
Water-supply
Strainer
“Jaygee”: A floating water-
strainer designed in Britain
is a decided improvement on
existing devices used for strain-
ing mud, reeds, small fish or
floating debris from the farm
water-supply.
The strainer, attached to a
rubber suction-hose about 10ft.
long and reinforced by wire,,
floats out on the water and
draws its supply at a level of
4in. to 6in. from the surface.
There is no chance of a vortex
developing above the entrance,
because it’s surrounded by a
full-flow strainer of adequate
size. The strainer is a replace-
able plate, with holes 3/16in.
covering an area four times as
big as the cross-sectional area
of the hose-pipe.
The float-compartment is
swivelled to the suction-pipe
so that it cannot be inverted,
no matter how the pipe is
twisted. The whole of the
suction-strainer is tough and
shockproof, being made of
either plastics or stainless-steel,
materials which do not corrode.
The float-chamber contains a
closely-fitted moulding of ex-
panded polystyrene providing
millions of separate watertight
air-cells.
The device comes in four
sizes, and it works equally
well in dams, streams, lagoons
or in a well with variation in
water-level. It is used exten-
sively in mines for lowering
seepage-water, and operators
of firefighting equipment, also,
will readily recognise its value.
Tomatoes
“Billjim”: Tomatoes are
one of the hardest crops to
grow, and healthy seedlings
are the most important single
factor in success. So you
should grow your own seed-
lings, because that’s the. best
means of ensuring the desired
variety and, from containers,
you plant them without dis-
turbing the soil around the
roots.
In southern regions October
is the earliest month for safe
planting; it’s the month for
main-crop plantings in many
northern districts.
Quicker-maturing varieties,
which should give fruit around
Christmas, are dwarf-bush —
most of them selections of
Burwood Wonder though
South Australian dwarf are
seven days earlier than others.
Another useful early variety is
Tatura Dwarf Globe. None
of these varieties needs staking
or pruning.
A small seed-box covered
with a sheet of glass and pro-
tected from the wind is ideal.
Use sandy loam, which prefer-
ably hasn’t grown vegetables
previously, and broadcast a
light sprinkling of super. The
seed should be dusted with
Fernasan or copper-oxy-
chloride to guard against soil-
borne fungous diseases. Sow,
not too thickly, in drill-rows
about |in. in depth and 3in.
or 4in. apart.
When the seedlings have
reached the right stage, prick
them out into suitable single-
plant containers —flower-pots,
strawberry-punnets or even
jam-tins. Two seedlings can
be placed in each container,
and the weaker one removed
after seven or 10 days. They
can be protected against
disease and insects by dusting
or spraying at 14-day intervals
with a mixture of D.D.T. and
zineb. Lay metaldehyde baits
if snails are a problem.
Seedlings should be kept
moist. If they develop a pale-
green or yellow coloring apply
a light dressing of sulphate-of-
ammonia or nitrate-of-soda.
Quick Growth
in Piglets
“Mallee”: When selecting a
breeding-sow, consider milk-
producing capacity as well as
type and prolificacy. The fast
growth of the litter depends
on high milk-production
during the first weeks after
farrowing.
The amount of * milk pro-
duced by sows during the six-
week lactation is between
3001 b. and 6501 b. It varies
from day to day and from one
milk-gland to another. The
quantity increases weekly up
to the fourth week and then
decreases until weaning.
Feed the sow on ample
rations of high protein-con-
tent, otherwise her yield will
be affected, and her body-
weight lowered.
The milk goes through two
changes in composition.
During the first week after
farrowing a rapid change from
colostrum to normal milk
takes place; then gradually
the percentage of the various
constituents changes, with the
critical period about the third
week, just before maximum
yield is reached. This is the
time to introduce creep-feed-
ing of the litter. They put on
more weight for each pound
of food fed direct to them,
instead of to the sow, which
has first to convert it into
milk. The piglets should be
eating a good creep feed-
mixture when they are three
weeks old.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NORMA GEPPERT late of No. 8
Northcote Street Auburn. —T A K E
NOTICE that JAMES MALCOLM GEP-
PERT has filed a Petition for Divorce
(No. 2662 of 1959) on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 14th December 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. J. KIELY, Solicitor, 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOAN ERNST (formerly JOAN
BRADFORD) of 739 Pacific Highway
Marks Point New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that ALFRED CLIVE ERNST
has filed a Petition foy Divorce No.
1903 of 1959 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 15th
day of December 1959 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
JAMES & GRAHAME, Solicitors, 16a
Bolton Street, Newcastle, or their
Agents, PURVES MOODIE & STOREY,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012, 8W4991
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING,
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. C. MAITLAND O. S. PETTERSEN
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches and, Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT.
Missing Friend
TO LIONEL AITKEN formerly of
Tattersalls Hotel Hay in the State of
New South Wales but now of parts
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife ETHEL GLADYS AITKEN of 3
Martin Street South Melbourne in the
State of Victoria has instituted proceed-
ings against you for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion. Should you desire
to defend this suit you must enter an
appearance in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court in the
State of Victoria at the Law Courts
William Street Melbourne in the State
of Victoria on or before the 17 th day
of November 1959 and also file an
answer in the said office on or before
the 27th day of November 1959 other-
wise the case may be heard in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs.—K. G. CRANAGE, Solicitor, 273 A
Glenferrie Road, Malvern, 5.E.4.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
A. G. Stephens, ed. Vance
Palmer; A Moment of Time, by
Richard Hughes.—6BB3.
Twenty copies of T. Tertius
Noble’s Magnificat and Nunc
Dimittis in B Minor —harmony
version.—6BB4.
Does Anybody Know?
Whether there Is any tie-up
between Mrs. Alexander, whose
Hymns for Little Children went
through 70 editions up to 1900, and
Charles M. Alexander, editor of
Alexander’s Hymns ?
Information Sought
Biographical details of astronomer
Walter Duffield ?
Born at Gawler (S.A.) in 1879,
educated at Adelaide Uni. (B'.Sc.)
and at Cambridge (8.A.), later
becoming a research-fellow at
Manchester University, where he
graduated D.Sc. in 1908. He did
original research on astrophysical
questions, results of which were
published in several British scientific
journals. In 1905 and 1907 he
attended meetings of the Inter-
national Solar Union in Oxford and
Paris. During War I he was com-
missioned in the Royal Flying
Corps. He returned to Australia
in 1923, and in January, 1924, was
appointed director of the Common-
wealth Observatory at Mt. Stromlo,
Canberra, which he founded. He
died on August 1, 1929, and a
plaque to his memory was unveiled
in the Church of St. John the
Baptist, Canberra, in January, 1924.
• • * •
Which is correct —Welsh “rarebit”
or “rabbit”?
Original name for the dish (in
1725) was “Welsh rabbit,” and is
so designated in all old recipe-
books. But later (in 1785) it was
colloquially labelled “Welsh rarebit”
by Francis Grose in his Classical
Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue,
and the name stuck. All the stan-
dard dictionaries support the use
of the original word. Chambers’
describes rarebit as “an erroneous
form of rabbit”; Oxford labels it
an “etymologising alteration”;
Webster’s International says it is
“sometimes erroneously called
rarebit”; and Fo\yler’s advises the
use of rabbit, not rarebit.
• • • •
Details of the “Eleven - Plus”
examination in England ?
(Fiom the Department of Educa-
tion): This examination is open to
children between the ages of 11-
12 or thereabouts, on a given date
of each year. On the results of
the examination pupils may be
offered free places at grammar-
schools, in some areas at technical-
schools, and at selective central-
schools. The examination is usually
conducted by a panel of examiners
appointed by the local education-
authority; it is not conducted by
the grammar-schools themselves.
Marking of examination-papers is
done by markers appointed by the
local education-authority, which is
also responsible for selecting
successful candidates.
The form of the examination
varies from one local education-
authority to another, but it gener-
ally follows this pattern: An intelli-
gence test; English examination;
arithmetic examination. Candi-
dates are graded by the head-
teachers of their primary-schools,
and this grading, together with
their school-record, is usually taken
into account. In many cases an
interview is held, in which
examiners seek to ascertain whether
the candidate’s abilities are suited
to the academic nature of grammar-
school education. There is not
necessarily any consistency between
different areas as to either the
number of available places in
grammar-schools or the methods
devised for selection of pupils. In
some places the headmaster’s report
on a pupil is the most important
factor, while in others the actual
examination-results are considered
the essential feature in the selection
process.
Brief Answers
R.D.P.: The United Kingdom
Information Office, London Assur-
ance Building, Bridge Street, Sydney,
supplies all information on the U.K.
and colonies except trade and tourist
data. It receives airmail editions of
the main English newspapers, and
also maintains a free reference and
lending library of books, periodi-
cals and 16mm. films, and provides
press-releases and poster-displays.
It publishes a weekly news-sheet
and an annual handbook. Hours
of opening.: 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday
to Friday 8.G.: An anti-rust
paint for troughs and tanks can
be made of a mixture of dry
cement, boiled linseed-oil and
driers, mixed to the consistency
of stiff paint. Brush this onto a
clean, dry surface and, to ensure
the maximum amount of protection,
repeat every two or three years, or
when necessary T.C.: The
(British) National Health Service
was established in 1948; the rele-
vant Acts —the National Health
Service Act, 1946; the National
Health Service (Scotland) Act,
1947; and the Health Services Act
(Northern Ireland), 1948 —came
into force simultaneously on July
5, 1948....H.R.: Write to Mr. J.
Nies, N-S.W. Table Tennis Asso-
ciation, Box 2865, G.P.0., Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
N.F.: Onward:
WARMTH OF FIRESIDE CHATS.
Great efforts of Geneva fame
Appear to be so very tame,
An approach of leaders of top-line fame,
In chatty moods to know the game.
Receptions wide all cheer the same
To eliminate the harsh spirit of Cain,
To usher in a new regime
Of peace goodwill let’s all acclaim.
....“The Renegade”: Well, seeing
it’s the centenary:
MACKAY, QUEENSLAND.
With green fields of sugar-cane
From the Mountain to the Sea.
That will be the only place,
The only place for me,
Where old Mackay, the centre
Of much thriving industry,
Typifies the wealth and fame of Queens-
land.
. ...J.L.: Verse wordy; let’s see
the stories... .N.F.: Can’t resist
the “unsurpassable zeal”:
Come on, let us honor our Queensland,
One-hundred years old so let us be gay,
Queen Victoria’s defence, and favor doth
stand,
Rule Britannia’s for ever in our sunny
land.
Our Governors and Parliaments work in
unison well,
With unsurpassable zeal their atain-
ments to swell,
Let our souls rise in fullness, our voices'
to raise
In a crescendo of pride, and a psan of
„ praise.
E.F1.8.: Poultry but not
poetry... .8.L.: Too raw....
C.0.W.: Your poem on poker-
machines would please, perhaps,
poker-machines..“ Moonstruck” :
Put it in a rocket and shoot it up
there M.S.: Amos has a very
rough ride H.L.: Poem on early
rising caught the bird... .8.C.F.:
Read them again, slowly, patiently,
sympathetically... .M.R.: “Young
Girl” wasn’t . far off M.E.8.:
Nothing wrong with it as far as it
goes; but it doesn’t say anything
new... .M.W.S.: Quite a good
second stanza in “Seashore”; the
first should be stronger... .0.1.:
Write about your own .country in
the language of your own time.


THE HOLLIDAYS
“ Don't Worry, dear, I'll soon get our fare back . Now — Righto, We Want a dollar in the centre to see him go!”
New Recordings
Melbourne Suburbia
Victorian company Score's
little 334-, Wild Life in Suburbia
(Vol. 2), written and spoken by
Barry Humphries, has( on one
side, a letter to Beryl touring
abroad from her husband
Sandy Stone, and on the other,
a dissertation by Edna Everage
on her daughter's marriage,
Mrs. Everagl concludes her
talk, strongly reminiscent of
the conductress of some
woman’s radio-session, by sing-
ing “The Highett Waltz,” in
praise of the beautiful suburb
of Highett-composed with the
aid of many musicomedy com-
posers who have gone before,
P by Mr.
Most Australian writers
about Australian suburbia are
refugees from it. When they
write about it they exaggerate
situations, they crowd a year’s
happenings into a day to supply
incident, and they provide
humor where they do not find
it. In this way they ensure the
continuous incident and wit
that will make suburban tedium
endurable to listeners and
readers.
Barry Humphries does little
of this. The tedium of life
and the samenesss of people are
his subject-matter. Mrs. Ever-
age is never clever ; she is not
even particularly funny uncon-
sciously ; and there is little
of intentional or unintentional
wit in Sandy Stone’s laboriously
compiled letter to his wife
a
what makes these tedl ° a ’
monologues fascinating is then-
precision: here, they say to us,
are people living in cliches,
fumbling for the correct feel-
mgs they never had ; m the
end they are oddiy pathetic-
the list of suburbanites anxious
‘° b< = remembered to Mra
Store abroad really touches
tue near . , ~
, Humphnes manages the old
cluck talking with bewildering
ease-ore put it on 45 r.p.m.
b y mistake, and it really
sou . nded llke a h , e ", ya l?7mSh
d ra wing-room entertainers,
° ~
Mc G*
♦jt ♦♦♦
A Bit of Bizet
Coronet’s latest stereo
release—Bizet’s Carmen Suite
(KLLS 602 ; Eugene Ormandy
conducting the Philadelphia)—
is a brilliant bit of recording,
Maybe some of the credit for
the general effect of cleanness
belongs to Ormandy and his
players, but the stereo-process
shows-up particularly well in
this music, adding depth and
spread—“ Les Toreadors,” the
first track, blazes with trumpets
and strings and gives the feel-
ing that the music is being
played in a hall at least as big
as a bullring ; and the popular
“Intermezzo,” with that theme
so reminiscent of “Jeannie with
the Light Brown Hair,” grows
subtly from a flute-harp state-
ment to a sonorous piece for
the strings.
Porgy and Percy
Gershwin’s negro folk-opera
“Porgy and Bess” has been
recorded many times, and now
that a Samuel Goldwyn film
has been made of it (with some
of the stars of “Carmen Jones”)
some of its numbers are bound
to be heard of soon on hit-
parades. In fact two of them,
“Summertime” and “I Loves
You, Porgy” are already there.
“Porgy and Bess” had its
first public performance 29
years ago, but its Broadway
season was short. Revived in
1942, it found that both
audience and critics had
warmed to it, but it was another
10 years before its real triumph
came.
Opening in Dallas (Texas) in
June, 1952, it began a pilgri-
mage which took it to Europe,
back to New York for a year-
long run, an American tour,
then back to Europe again,
thence to Central and South
America, across to La Scala
(Milan), behind the Iron Cur-
tain to Leningrad and Moscow,
finishing in Amsterdam the
tour which had begun in Texas
four years earlier. In that time
audiences in 29 countries had
been moved by the poignant
“My Man’s Gone Now” and
“Where’s My Bess”; the
joyous liveliness of “I Got
Plenty o’ Nuttin”’ and “It
Ain’t Necessarily So”; the
street-cries of “The Strawberry
Woman and the Crab Man.”
On Coronet’s KLL 1605,
Percy Faith’s orchestra plays
15 numbers from the Gershwin
opera, presenting them in the
order in which they appear ip
the score. He uses two
orchestral combinations of 37
and 42 pieces and the varying
moods of the orchestral selec-
tions give good scope for solo
instrumentalists George Ockner
(violin), Doc Severinsen
(trumpet) Jimmie Abato (alto-
sax) and Russ Banzer (tenor-
sax).
■iji
Songs
On KEP 184 (E.P.; 45 r.p.m.)
the Norman Luboff Choir
sings “It’s Easy to Remember”;
“Soon”; “The Way You Look
Tonight,” “Love is Here to
Stay.” Not an altogether suc-
cessful disk; one finds it hard
to accept such a group, cap-
able of doing marvellous things
with American folksongs,
attempting straight pop.-stuff.
Of course, it’s all very
smoothly done —mellow tenor
tone and fine harmonic effects.
Put this record alongside some
of the choir’s previous releases,
such as “Songs of the South,”
or even the rollicking “Songs
of the Sea,” and it’s pretty
obvious they specialise in pure
singing coupled with the
sparsest of musical accom-
paniments.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Lady Brooks, who is president of the
Victorian division of Red Cross, was
present at a late-afternoon party given
as a curtain-raiser to the coming Red
Cross Appeal, which aims to raise over
£lOO,OOO. Held in the Lucy Bryce Hall
of Red Cross’s blood-bank, it was
attended by more than 100 supporters.
They included mayors and mayoresses
of metropolitan municipalities, shire-
presidents and their wives, and town-
clerks and their wives. Intermingled
with the smart cocktail-frocks and gay
little flower-hats worn by many women
guests were the uniforms of representa-
tives from various Red Cross units. The
Governor’s wife was welcomed by
Colonel Allan Spowers (chairman of the
Victorian division) and Mrs. Spowers,
and the chairman of the Citizens’ Appeal
Committee, Mr. John McMahon, and
Mrs. McMahon. The Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress, Cr. and Mrs. Bernard
Evans, were also in the official party.
Lady Brooks chose a sheath-frock of
taffeta printed in autumn-tones with
touches of pink and blue ; her tiny black
velvet cap was misted with chenille-
spotted veiling, and she added a mink
stole in golden tonings. With her black
frock Mrs. Evans wore a mustard-and-
black rough-tweed coat and a high-
crowned hat of brown-and-.beige silk-
straw. Mrs. Spowers’s draped frock of
sage-green wool was worn with a bronze-
and-pink feather cloche. Mrs. Mc-
Mahon teamed a deep-green wool frock,
a dyed-ermine wrap and a head-hugging
cap of tabac-brown and grey satin. Mrs.
Eccles McKay (vice-chairman of the
division) wore the new slate-blue uniform
and matching soft-brimmed hat.
V- -V- V-
Over 1400 guests, including the
Governor and Lady Brooks and represen-
tatives of the Diplomatic Corps, the three
Services and various denominations,
attended the garden-party given by
Archbishop F. Woods and Mrs. Woods
at Bishopscourt. Lady Brooks wore a
slim-skirted jacket-suit of marine-blue
wool and a small hat which had a crown
of green leaves and a brim clustered with
lily-of-the-valley. The hostess wore with
her ruby-red wool frock a fur-trimmed
coat and matching red feather-cloche.
Mrs. J. D. McKie, who with her husband,
Bishop McKie, helped receive the guests,
wore a yellow frock and small head-hug-
ging hat of matching grosgrain-ribbon.
Education Minister J. S. Bloomfield,
who was accompanied by Mrs. Bloom-
field, represented the Premier. With Lord
Mayor Bernard Evans was Mrs. Evans,
whose suit in beech-brown wool was
worn with a hat of folded-satin in toning
shades. Noticed strolling about the lawns
were Chief Justice Sir Edmund Herring
and Lady Herring ; Archbishop and Mrs.
J. J. Booth ; Sir Clifden and Lady Eager ;
Lady Currie ; Mrs. Russell Clarke ; Miss
Ella Payne ; Mrs. Guy Bakewell and her
brother-in-law and sister, Commander
and Mrs. Grant Pringle ; the U.S. Consul-
General and Mrs. Graham Hall; Chinese
Consul K. Y. Leung; the Consul for
France, Le Bas de Plumetot, and his
wife; University Vice-Chancellor Sir
George Paton and Lady Paton; Air-
Commodore and Mrs. Dennis Creel ; Mr.
and Mrs. Oswald Syme ; Sir Robert and
Lady Knox; and Dr. and Mrs. J. R.
Darling, of Geelong.
Anne Hathaway, who is “Miss J.C.W.”
in the Miss Show Business Quest, is a
member of the “My Fair Lady”, cast —
her first show with the Firm. The quest
will close with a ball at St. Kilda Palais,
and Gladys Moncrieff will crown the
victor. Proceeds of the ball and money
raised by the candidates from the various
theatres will go to Mentally Retarded
Children’s and Victorian Actors’ Benevo-
lent funds. Photo by Athol Shmith.
No chances were taken with the col-
lection of jewellery valued at £BOO,OOO
when it was shown at Menzies’ Hotel at
a dinner in aid of the Queen Victoria
Hospital—security-men watched the
mannequins who wore the various pieces
from the time they left the dressing-room
until they returned to change. These
jewels had come from the firm of Cartier,
of London, Paris and New York. One
brooch of amethysts and diamonds
shaped like a bunch of violets was valued
at £3OOO. (This week the collection, with
other pieces from firms and private
collections, will be shown in the Town
Hall. Visitors there will see one pear-
shaped diamond, golden in color, valued
at £120,000.)
Mrs. Lindsay Mildred, president of
the Kurneh auxiliary to the Q.V. Hos-
pital (she and her committee arranged
the showing) wore an attractive gown of
pale-lilac taffeta with a stole in Parma-
violet tonings. Dame Mabel Brookes
(president of the Queen Vic.) was present
with her husband, Sir Norman Brookes,
and Mrs. Arthur Wenzel, president of all
Q.V. auxiliaries. In the audience were
Mr. and Mrs. Ross Grey Smith ; Mr.
and Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh ; Mrs. D. J. S.
Mackinnon (her gown of apricot chiffon
had a side-drape flowing from one
shoulder to the hem of graceful skirt);
Mr. and Mrs. Angus Jones ; Lady Mc-
Connan ; Lady Upjohn; Mrs. Ronald
Marriott (her short frock being of cream
French re-embroidered lace), her hus-
band and mother, Mrs. F. H. Wright,
and brother and sister-in-law, Mr. and
Mrs. Heathcote Wright; and Lady
Clarke (her short, full-skirted frock of
cream duchesse-satin embroidered in a
silk Chinese-design, the flowers jewel-
centred).
☆ ☆ *
Hats from the salon of Jeanette were
worn by housewife-mannequins at the
parade organised by the Wilvern
auxiliary of the Crippled Children and
Adult Appeal and held in the ballroom
of the Bambalina, Malvern. Mrs. W. E.
Wilson, president of the auxiliary, wore
a Parma-violet ensemble to receive the
official guests. They included Mrs.
Norman Welsh (president of the women’s
committee for the appeal); Mrs. W. K.
Burnside, Mrs. Sydney Hayes, Mrs. C.
Butler and Mrs. Garnet Alsop. Mrs. J. J.
Booth, wife of Archbishop Booth,
opened the parade. Official opening of
the appeal by the Governor will be on
November 16, and it will continue until
December 24.
☆ ☆ ☆
This year the Robin Hood Committee,
whose president is Mrs. J. Alston, forsook
the traditional French atmosphere for
their annual ball in the Royale Ball-
room and went to Bohemia for a change.
Tall pinetrees disguised the pillars in
the ballroom, and behind the official
enclosure was a huge backdrop, painted
to represent a gipsy-camp in Bohemia.
The 600 guests wore a variety of
costumes ; that chosen by Mrs. Alston, of
a Bohemian peasant-girl, comprised a full
red skirt, white blouse, black velvet jacket
and a high coronet of gay flowers. In
the foyer hung pictures entered in the
recent Robin Hood art-exhibition, includ-
ing those of the two prizewinners, Frank
Freeman and Nona Gude. Among the
official guests were the Director of the
Mental Health Department, Dr. E.
Cunningham Dax, and Mrs. Dax; U.S.
Consul W. Ryan and Mrs. Ryan;
National Gallery Director Eric West-
brook and Mrs. Westbrook; Mr. and
Mrs. William Dargie; Mr. Fred
Asmussen and his mother, Mrs Peter
Asmussen. Committee-members present
were Mrs. W. Dobinson, Maria Manning
and Francine Abry.


SYDNEY
Opening day of the A.J.C. spring
meeting at Randwick was a brilliant
fashion-carnival, with striking emphasis
on hats. There were toppers, cloches,
whimsies of little scraps of muslin and
lace, and the popular Breton-sailor —no
two alike, and in the warm sunshine of
the early afternoon they blended with
the flowers edging the green lawns in
a riot of color.
Eyecatchers were the tall topper of
gold-and-white straw which Mrs. Edward
Esdaile wore with a suit of bone-
shantung ; Mrs. John Duncan’s white-
linen cloche in the latest shape, with her
linen suit which had a large sailor-
collar edged with navy; the elegance of
Mrs. Ted Body, whose head-hugging
cloche was of diamond-plaited organdie
and her suit of navy-and-white-checked
silk; Mrs. Eddie Armstrong’s dress of
spotted silk-surah in beige-and-black, the
large collar worn out over a black silk
coat; Mrs. Michael Read, in a white silk
dress patterned in blue and large blue-
straw Breton-sailor featuring the new
forehead-veil. An elegant trio were Mrs.
A. W. Salisbury, her daughter, Mrs.
Frank McCall Power, and Mrs. Roy
Buckland. The former was in a suit of
navy and a small white hat with side-
feathers of red; Mrs. McCall Power’s
Dior-suit was of soft leaf-green, her
small white hat banded with the same
color ; and Mrs. Buckland in checked
black-and-white suit and white hat. Just
back from visiting their daughter and
son-in-law, Major and Mrs. Jackson
Welsh, at the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok
were Captain and Mrs. Salisbury.
With Mrs. Neville Morgan (Dior suit
of navy Swiss-silk with large fichu of
organdie, and tall-crowned hat of white)
were Dr. and Mrs. Ted Collins (her
pure-silk panniered dress was in gold-
green and worn with a gold-and-white-
spotted hat). Mrs. David Chrystal, jnr.,
also chose a suit of navy, hers with
vestee of blue and white; her white
Dutch bonnet was lined with matching-
blue. Mrs. Tom Bateman looked attrac-
tive in a pleated dress of white nylon
printed in pink and tall petalled hat;
Dr. Carole Willis had an unusual cloche
of white pique and lace and wore with
it a mauve-wool suit.
Among the country and inter-State
visitors were Miss Mary Brennan, of
Coonabarabran, in Paris-pink coat-
dress ; Mrs. T. K. Thomson, of Lismore
(with her mother, Mrs. Wynn Roberts,
of Darling Point, with whom she is stay-
ing) ; Mrs. Max Munro, of Canberra,
and Mrs. Ronnie Nott, of Melbourne,
whose striking Edwardian riding-hat was
of golden-straw banded with black, and
worn with a Dior-dress of parchment-
colored wild-silk.
V V V
It’s a braw week for members of
MacLeod clan, busy celebrating their
fifth annual get-together and given an
extra fillip by the presence of Mrs. Joan
Wolrige Gordon, who came from
Scotland as the representative of her
mother, Dame Flora MacLeod, 80-year-
old Clan Chief, of historic Dunvegan,
on the isle of Skye. The Mecca of every
visiting Scot with claim to MacLeod
ancestry (and some wi’ nane at all!)
it has been headquarters of chiefs for
750 years, and has on view among other
relics the corsets lent to Bonnie Prince
Charlie to wear when he disguised him-
self in women’s clothes. Entertainment
by MacLeods this week includes a dinner-
party in honor of the distinguished visitor
at the North Sydney home of president
B. D. MacLeod and Mrs. MacLeod;
gala-premiere of Scottish films ;• Clan
ball at the State ballroom on October 9,
and a farewell Ceilidh to Mrs. Wolrige
Gordon at the Royal Commonwealth
Rooms, Bligh Street, by Clan MacLeod
Society on October 13. Further details
of this may be had from Mr. B. D.
MacLeod (XB 7983).
An enthusiastic worker for good
causes, especially those which help
mothers and babies, is charming Mrs.
John Trenerry. She is always working
hard to raise money for Crown Street
Women’s Hospital, and two years ago
became inaugural-president of the
younger-set, which to date has raised
about £1500. The auxiliary decided
recently to change its name to Baby
Bunting, and members are now speculat-
ing as to whether this will turn out to be
as appropriate as their emblem of a
giant stork, which is always part of the
decorations at the many functions they
organise; since joining the auxiliary 20
out of 25 of its members had personal
visits from the stork! Mrs. Trenerry is
on the Town and Cquntry Ball commit-
tee, which works for the Smith Family,
and was the founder of its younger-set.
She is also a member of the Black and
White committee, which aids the Royal
Blind Society of N.S.W. She finds
relaxation in swimming and in garden-
ing at her St. Ives home. She has a
four-year-old daughter, Kim Susan.
Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Self-contained cots for babies is the
latest move to guard against cross-
infection in nurseries and homes.
Standard equipment is bath, dish, bottle-
receptacle, nappie-locker ; in fact, every-
thing for the personal needs of the
modern infant. They are hoping to have
this type of cot installed in all the
nurseries of the Women’s Hospital in
Crown Street, and special money-raising
drives for this objective have been
organised.
One successful function for this pur-
pose was the fashion-parade held at the
Pacific Hotel by members of the Manly
Centre, when Mrs. Jim McKeon com-
pered a collection of beach-wear,
afternoon-frocks, glamorous evening-
wear, millinery and accessories supplied
from the local salons of Shirley Greg,
Fifth Avenue hats and Hay’s accessories.
Everyone had a wonderful time, especially
as models included popular Mrs. M.
Ambrose, Manly’s first woman alderman
in 85 years ; she is the proud grandmama
of six, three of whom were born at
Crown Street. Then there were presi-
dent Mrs. E. M. Cooper, hon. secretary
Mrs. C. Tassell and hon. treasurer Mrs.
L. Brewer —all as busy as bees in
blossom-time. Mrs. Brewer is often
accused of using the wrong calendar —
she claims 83 birthdays, could deduct 20
and still look young for her age. Special
guests were the Mayoress of Manly, Mrs.
W. Fairbairn (who is patron of the
centre); Mrs-. Falkner-B'laxland (vice-
president of the hospital board); its
matron, Miss Blair ; and Mrs. Little.
Air-Marshal Sir John and Lady
McCauley are in process of settling into
their new harborside home at Potts
Point. Their daughter, Mrs. Leslie
Alderson-Smith, is equally delighted
with it, and visits them frequently with
her three-months-old son John. Arriving
in Sydney in the Pioneer Isle later in
the month is her husband’s mother, who
hopes to be here to celebrate her 80th
birthday. She has lived for two years
in Washington (D.C.) with her daughter
Moverley, who is attached to the New
Zealand Embassy staff.
V V *
Coming to Australia is to conductor
Joseph Krips rather like returning to a
very good party after going home for
a few hours sleep. He beamed happily
as he made the comparisons when speak-
ing at the party given by the A.B.C.
when he and Mrs. Krips were guests-of-
honor with visiting French violinist
Devy Erlih. Sir Richard Boyer, chair-
man of the A.8.C., welcomed the guests,
and in the absence of Lady Lloyd Jones
was assisted by Mrs. Chartres. Guests
included M. Chicoteau, Consul-General
for France ; Mr. and Mrs. Menaud ;
Miss Margaret Gillespie; Mrs. Bruce
Macfarlan (looking glamorous as usual
in a slim-fitting black frock, cuffed
around its off-shoulder bodice with
black fur); Mr. and Mrs. Hans Tronser ;
Adrienne Throsby and Vanessa Payn, of
the youth-concert committee. Mrs.
Krips wore a large black hat with her
dress of black pure-silk.


Well, then; “pulled” and “bird” and
“unfurled” are rhymes of a kind,
assonances, quite enough to hold a
poem together; and so are “gone” and
“brown”; and so are “yet” and the last
syllable of “intersect”; and so, of
course, are “maze” and “crazy” ... a
very subtle poet is Hart-Smith; and,
when his subtleties come off, a very
good one.
“Poems of Discovery,” in keeping
with this subtlety of style, is so subtle
a selection of Hart-Smith’s verse that
I can’t quite make out the principles
on which it has been put together. It
contains- some of his earlier poems,
such as the Columbus sequence, but
omits many of his best; it contains
many of his best recent poems, but
inexplicably omits others. But it is a
rich and varied collection, containing,
as well as “Christopher Columbus,”
poems from South America, poems
from New Zealand, and, along with
shorter Australian pieces, a curious
and moving historical sequence about
the convicts who dreamed of finding
a white civilisation, a sort of earthly
Paradise, somewhere over the Blue
Mountains. Angus and Robertson
have printed it in an exceptionally
pleasant format, small and compact; a
book of verse that looks like a book
instead of like a piece of cake.
Douglas Stewart.
Pioneer Women
Mary of Maranoa (F. H. Johnston)
is a collection of tales of Australian
pioneer women, gathered over years
of research by Eve Pownall.
Mary of Maranoa was the daughter
of Stephen Spencer, of Iron Bark
Station, near Barraba, N. S. Wales.
When she was fourteen her father led
his wife and children, in Biblical
fashion, with 1000 head of cattle and
60 horses on a 400-mile trek to a new
home at Mount Abundance Station,
west of the Darling Downs. The
journey, made in spring-cart and
bullock-wagons, took four months.
From the beginning Mary made it
“her” country.
As she grew older the problems of
settlement were of absorbing interest.
Mount Abundance was the “farthest-
out” station, the last place where
supplies could be obtained. The pace
of settlement quickened when Queens-
land was separated from N. S. Wales.
“Everyone was infatuated with the
desire to possess a run in Queensland.
The excitement was intense, and
nearly equal to the gold-rush seven or
eight years before.” She wrote with-
out undue praise of McManus, whom
she later married, for his feat of
shepherding by himself 10,000 sheep,
using two horses a day and galloping
all the time from sunrise to after dark.
She knew of the comradeship between
neighbors, thirty or forty miles apart,
and the help they gave each other a
centufy ago when she galloped her
horse where the town of Roma now
stands.
Mrs. Pownall suggests that the Aus-
tralian coat-of-arms should in all fair-
ness contain a Dutch oven, for with-
out the magnificent meals that came
out of its iron interior to put fresh
heart into tired and discouraged men,
the story of settlement might have been
a different one. With need to perform
minor miracles when supplies were
delayed, the cook was often the only
one who knew the source of some of
her dishes. One autobiography relates
how much everyone enjoyed a plum-
pudding—except the cook. She had
no fat or dripping to make it, and
for want of anything else had cut up
tallow candles very fine like suet.
Women who went along the pioneer
trails were not solely occupied in
housekeeping, child - bearing and
rearing. There were jobs for them in
the growing and harvesting of the first
crops, the establishment of the sheep-
industry and the setting-up of cattle-
stations. In the gold-rush days they
helped with the puddling, cradling and
storage of gold. But one can almost
hear the outcry they raised when mud
was tramped into their homes.
Under the prim title of “A Lady’s
Visit to the Gold Diggings of Aus-
tralia,” Mrs. Charles Clancy described
the dreary tent of the bachelor digger,
with a block of wood balanced on a
box for his table, the bedding scattered
on the floor and the endless monotony
of a menu of mutton, damper and tea.
Then with a woman to cope with
housekeeping “things were as bright
as silver, there were sheets as well as
blankets on beds, dry sacking or pieces
of carpet on the ground.... and a pet
cockatoo chained to a perch to keep
the Missus from feeling lonely when
the man is at work.”
Mrs. Pownall has not concerned
herself only with early land-owners
and home-makers. A chapter of her
book is dedicated to the amazing
exploits of Caroline Chisholm, who
fought with her conscience at the sight
of migrant girls stranded in the colony
without homes or jobs, resolved to do
something about them, and formed the
first “housekeeper” scheme. She
brought out shiploads of new settlers
from England under a one-woman
migration plan, and she enabled
children thrown into workhouses in
England to rejoin their parents trans-
ported to the colony.
Although the road to the goldfields
of Castlemaine and Bendigo stretched
a hundred miles from Melbourne, Mrs.
Chisholm did her own research into
the accommodation offering to women
travelling along it to join husbands at
the diggings, and promptly set about
bettering it. Her “shakedowns” pro-
vided decent shelter for them, and for
the work she did in this way alone,
Mrs. Chisholm deserves a monument.
Perhaps some day the Country
Women’s Association might do some-
thing about it, for their aims are almost
identical with those of the English-
woman, whose life of service to her
adopted country ended in near-
poverty and dreariness in Sydney.
A brief summary of the history of
the Country Women’s Association
makes a fitting conclusion to the book,
which is beautifully presented, with
color-plates and pictures of bush-huts
and stations, rolling farmlands and
lagoons.
J. D.
Of Valor
It’s rare to find an autobiography
written by a V.C. But, then, it’s also
rare to find a member of that gallant
company who has lived three separate
and distinct lives. Brigadier Sir John
Smyth has been, in turn, Indian Army
officer, journalist and member of the
House of Commons. The Only
Enemy (Hutchinson) tells the story of
65 years, during which he can never
have had a single dull moment.
After conventional schooling at
Repton and Sandhurst, Smyth joined
the 15th Ludhiana Sikhs in India in
1913, went into action with his regi-
ment in France on his 21st birthday
(October, 1914) and won the V.C. in
May, 1915.
Between the wars he served in India,
where he took part in operations on
the north-west frontier, and at the Staff
College, Camberley (Eng.), where he
had one tour as student and another
as instructor.
At the start of War II he was given
command of an English Territorial
brigade, which he took to Flanders for
the Dunkirk operations and brought
back, just over a month later, in the
evacuation. His next action was as
commander of the 17th Indian Divi-
sion at the disastrous battle of the
Sittang River in Burma. After this he
was curtly informed that he would be
retired from the Service.
So he went back to London and
took a job as military correspondent
for the Kemsley newspapers, becom-
ing a full-time working journalist and,
later, their lawn-tennis reporter. In
the meantime, he started writing books
and has now published seven.
Becoming interested in politics, he
was elected Conservative M.P. for
Norwood in 1946 and became Parlia-
mentary Secretary to the Ministry of


Pensions. He resigned this post in
1955 and has since remained a plain
M.P., with an intimate knowledge of
the intricacies and personalities of
contemporary British government.
All this experience of life has gone
into the book to make it a valuable
commentary. As far as fighting goes,
his military observations are generally
true. Description of frontier-warfare
is naturally exact (though a map would
be handy for those who do not know
the whereabouts of the outland places
he mentions). His assessment of the
most formidable of the tribes —“the
Mahsuds, finest natural soldiers in the
world” —finds echo from my own Men
of Harlech. Pure-bred from Caradoc’s
infantry and King Harry’s archers at
Agincourt, these happy connoisseurs of
close-combat had some bayonet-play
against the Mahsud swordsmen one
night in the Shaktu Valley. They
couldn’t speak highly enough about
the prowess of the “dirty-shirted
beggars” and rated them, as opponents
in a set-to, above the Afrika Korps
and miles ahead of the cream of the
Nipponese. So far, so good; but when
the brigadier comes to assessing the
characters of War II commanders
judgment must be more guarded,
except by those who were on the spot
at the specific moment.
When he became a journalist Smyth
went at it with his usual* spirit: “It
was as though a new life had started.”
A journalist might find some slight
fault with the sub-editing of the book,
because every important fact seems to
be mentioned twice. But, because the
facts are interesting and important, it’s
easy to overlook this repetition.
R. G.
A Thameside Pub
George Izzard has made a delightful
book of his Thameside pub in One
For the Road (Max Parrish). The
Doves (which, he found from an old
engraving, is more properly The
Dove) was drawing beer in the time
of the Stuarts, when landlords were
their own brewers. It is now the
property of a Chiswick brewery.
Izzard was managing a butchery for
his father until they differed and he
went into the Air Force, where he was
a champion boxer. In the late 20’s he
left the Air Force, married, and around
1929 took over The Doves, sadly run-
down. It had a terrace on the river
that he has made into a famous eatery
and drinkery for the young and gay
and the old and talented. Thomson
had written the “Winter” section of
“The Seasons” in it; its bar had been
described in William de Morgan’s
“Joseph Vance,” and A. P. Herbert
had put it in his “Water Gipsies.”
But when Izzard took it over it was
grimy; a clique of the district’s upper-
class used it as though they owned it;
and the early part of the book is an
account of how he renovated it, raised
the prices without anyone noticing,
started a fashion by having a firm of
pub-suppliers dig up some ancient
china pump-handles for his bar, and,
with a gift for provoking publicity,
drew attention to the place by such
devices as growing a beard and getting
pictures of it in the London papers,
having his sign repainted and having
A. P. Herbert, one of his regulars,
speak at the unveiling, and joining
with A. P. Herbert in a law-case
against the House of Commons for
selling liquor without a licence.
In the end one sees Michael Red-
grave, mistaken for a waiter, replying
“Yessir,” and hurrying inside to carry
out the order; Basil Radford collecting
dogs’-head walking-sticks; and such
visitors as Shostakovich and Khatcha-
turian; and Alec Guinness ordering
stout, and being asked by the barman:
“Draught or bottled, Guinness?”; and
the most beautiful woman Izzard has
ever seen, Valerie Hobson. Then, in
one of the regulars, one meets as plain
Bill Mathers, the translator of the
Mardrus version of the “Thousand
and One Nights,” who did a lot of his
work in the back room, with a quart or
sometimes two quarts of Old Burton
Extra, “brewed from lions and tigers
and boxing-gloves,” and was still able
to go home as steady as a rock.
Many have swum the river to the
terrace, some have been lost off it;
Izzard was called-out one evening to a
terrace empty of all but a man pleading
with an invisible companion. A pile
of woman’s clothes was, next to the
wall. Stark naked in the water was
the customer’s young lady:—
“We had a quarrel, so she stripped
off all her clothes and dived in, and
now she’s threatening to drown her-
self,” the customer said.
“Why don’t you go in after her,
you ass?” I said.
“That’s where she’s got me,” the
customer said sadly. “I can’t swim,
and she knows it.”
Then there was a challenger of the
beer-drinking record who drank
sixteen-and-a-half pints, walked out
for a bit of fresh air and was never
seen again.
But if ever a man burned with a
hard, gemlike flame about the prob-
lems of pub-keeping it is this George
Izzard, and his chapter 23, “Would
You Like to be a Publican?” is an
inspiring treatise on a day in the life
of a publican, on pub-management,
dealings with the police, etc. Alas, he
has not been able to impress his son
with his enthusiasm for a day that
begins at 8.30 a.m. and ends at 11.30
p.m.:—
When he finished his national
service I asked him to work for me
at The Dove. Everyone said how
good he was. But he didn’t like it.
He wanted to get away from the
trade. Now he’s doing a humdrum
desk job. It seems such a waste.
From which one observes that even
a publican’s heart can be broken.
The Long and the Short and the
Tall: Willis Hall (Heinemann). Re-
portage doesn’t usually go well on
the stage, but this piece—about the
last hours of a small, ill-assorted
British patrol sheltering in a tiny hut
in the Malayan jungle during the
Japanese advance on Singapore—is so
graphic and so expertly paced as to
make a far better play than most.
When the patrol accidentally captures
a terrified and mild-mannered Jap and
realise that if they are to escape they
will have to kill him in cold blood,
their conflicting temperaments, com-
bined with shocking inexperience, lead
them to give away their position and
be butchered, all but one, by the
advancing Japanese. The dialogue
colorfully suggests the obscenity of
Army talk without using literal
obscenity, and the play conveys in
very human terms the tragic unpre-
paredness of the British defences at
the time. It should go wonderfully
on television.
OLD SOAK’S SONG
Let clerks put by their ledgers
And business girls their frocks
And couple in the hedges
And cuckoos run the clocks,
I’ll hurry at their calling
But since I’ve got my pride
Come let us lie, my darling,
About the countryside.
Could farmers free of trouble
Lie piping on their backs
To popsies in the stubble
And springing cows and larks,
I’d have a farm ; but, farming,
The turtle wins the race
While idleness is charming
If you can stand the pace.
If publicans were merry
And wet a toper’s thirst
On dancing girls and sherry
I’d live in Darlinghurst
And bicker with a liver,
But once your cheque is blown
I’d rather scratch a lover
Than touch them for a loan.
a.c.t.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Now
more than ever
you go best with
BENZOL
I
c*f\\rzpp
m
N
\9i.y
t-JL
-it
I — r
improved BP
land C.O.R
I
the World's best fuel improver
Get the new, improved
BENZOL blends at all
BP/C.O.R Service Stations
and agents now.
Change up to BP Super or C.O.R and let your car
give the verdict. From first start, your engine will
tell you all you need to know about the new
BP Super or C.O.R petrols: they’re improved
quality petrols —with the added power of BENZOL.
BP AUSTRALIA LiMITED,
formerly The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited crss
