

The Bulletin
Indonesian Communism-— page 40
Wednesday, April 8, 1959
Price 1 /-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Tieg-ister'ed in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
" Lay-off a sec.! Here's a message from my colleague in Fitzroy Gardens!"


Special Interest to Writers
101 PLOTS USED AND ABUSED
by JAMES N. YOUNG
20 Tears Fiction Editor oj Collier’s
Here's 101 different short story plots each outlined
in less than 200 words. This unique book (hard
cover, dust jacket) now available for the first time in
limited quantity at 13/6 per copy post free.
A RAW A DISTRIBUTING CO.,
8.6, BOX 5151, G.P.0., Sydney.
BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
"GENERATIONS OF MEN"
Judith Wright’s The Generations of
Men (Oxford) is really half-a-dozen
books in one. The material she has
compressed into one volume would
certainly have served a historical
novelist for a fat three-decker.
First it is the story of the Wynd-
hams, pioneers of the Hunter Valley
in New South Wales, and the baronial
splendor they lived in at their home-
stead of Dalwood: —
.... a great house of cool stone
corridors and high-ceilinged rooms,
of wide iron-barred doors opening
on a stone-flagged courtyard where
servants pumped water splashing
into pails ; down the passages and
through the windows wandered
scents from Grandmama’s garden
summer roses, lemon - hedge,
lavender and sage . . .
Then, very briefly, all in a paragraph
or two, it is the story of George Wynd-
ham, temporarily abandoning Dalwood
when bad times fell upon the district,
wandering for three years with his
cattle and his family through the bush
of the New England tableland and the
coastal plains of the north.
One of the Wyndham daughters,
Weeta, married a Mackenzie; so now
it is the story of Arthur Mackenzie, a
restless, feckless, likeable character as
Judith Wright draws him, wandering
off in his turn to make a station for
himself near Rockhampton in Queens-
land; having trouble with the blacks,
losing cattle by drought and poison and
spear, plagued to disaster by heat,
mosquitoes and fever. Weeta and the
children, when he had built a home for
them, met him at Rockhampton, but
by then it was apparent that the venture
was a failure: —
It so happened that May Downs
lay in the worst of the fever-country ;
and Arthur Mackenzie, inexperienced
in the problems of this country, had
built his hut near the Isaacs, where
the sandflies were at their fiercest.
Illness, worry and sleepless nights
riding after the cattle or fighting the
sandfl es began to take their toll of
him. . . .He had already begun to be
doubtful whether thjs country would
ever be suitable for his. wife and
children, and when he reached Rock-
hampton and found them ill with
fever, too, he began to despair of his
whole venture. Weeta found no
opposition to her declaration that
she was taking the children back to
Dalwood on the first available ship.
One of the Mackenzie daughters,
May, married Albert Wright, the son
of a farmer w’ho had come out from
Cornwall, and these two were Judith
Wright’s grandparents. So now it is
the story of Albert Wright—told at
much greater length, for to paint
Albert’s portrait is one of the chief
purposes of the book.
We meet him as a “brilliant scholar”
at King’s School, Parramatta, called
suddenly away to manage one of his
father’s properties and to take up a
life on the land for which he does not
seem to have been suited. He meets
his first love, Sallie, then goes away to.
another station inland from Rock-
hampton, Nulalbin, on the Dawson, to
manage the place until the stock could
be sold and the land abandoned; and
there, having his own troubles with the
blacks and helping (in a memorable
scene) to bury four of them whom
someone had casually murdered,
making friends with a remittance-man,
attending a Christmas buck-party
where everyone got notably drunk,
suffering from fever, loneliness and
melancholy, he dreamed of Sallie and
thought of taking-over the station
himself and making a home for her;
but when he got back to Sydney she
turned him down.
He wrote in his diary, “I did not
think I should feel it as much as I do.
Have hardly slept tonight.” But. after
another hard year at Nulalbin he came
down to his family in the Hunter
Valley for a holiday and there met May
Mackenzie. There is a very pretty
chapter of their courtship, engagement
and, after some delay, their marriage;
but thereafter nothing rings very
prettily in Albert’s story, which, like
Arthur Mackenzie’s, is a long-drawn
struggle against drought, flood, fever
and ruin in steamy Queensland.
One feels that, possibly influenced
by a diary into which he poured his
gloomiest feelings while his happier
moments went unrecorded, Judith
Wright may have overstressed Albert’s
misery. He comes out of the story
almost as distressing a figure as
Richard Mahoney. But for all that,
with the death of a child, with the
disaster to his cattle when he took-up
wild, new country, and with the general
sickness and struggle, there can be no
doubt that his life was difficult enough:
May nursed the children day and
night, growing pale and sharp-boned
again. Between their needs and the
fever-pains that kept her awake, she
got little sleep. At last, when he
came home after a week on camp
around the fences, he found her,
too, down with sandy-blight, almost
blind and in great pain. It was a
stubborn and recurring complaint,
and it made her ahnost helpless.
Albert had to alternate the station-
work with the duties of a nurse. The
sultry heat of the rainy season, the
myriads of sandflies and mosquitoes,
wearied them all, and continued far
into autumn, and the house was full
of sickness. There was no news of
the cattle.
Finally, when Albert has died after
leaving Nulalbin to take up new land
at Wongwibinda, in the New England
district, where so many of Judith
Wright’s poems are set, the book
becomes the story of May Wright, left
a widow at 41.
Curiously, except for one highly
significant glimpse of her as a 17-year-
old bride rushing to get her rifle to
deal with a troublesome blackfellow
(an incident that, like many others,
would have come up more vividly if it
could have been quoted directly from
a diary or letter), May Wright is hardly
present to the reader during the long
years at Nulalbin. She is there, of
course; but only as an abstract figure,
a woman suffering disasters.
But now she begins to come to life.
We learn —though we do not see her
in action demonstrating it —what her
character is: “Irritable, vain, pleasing,
kind-hearted, gossipy, sarcastic, good
hand at business and shrewd at making
any bargain. Likes her own way and
generally gets it. Disposition on the
whole good”—so someone humorously
described her, years before, in a game
of “Characters.” We begin to see her
in action when she decides to carry on
Wongwibinda after her husband’s
death; when she extends her holdings
and dreams of a great chain of
stations; and the portrait of her in old
age is presumably drawn from Judith
Wright’s own memories;—
Even in the hardest years she had
managed to preserve something of
that dignity in her household, a
reminiscence of the great family
dinners at Dalwood, where she had
once sat as the least of the
hierarchy and observed the
ceremonies on which George and
Margaret insisted. Now that money
again flowed freely, she had begun
to spend it on the things that were
dear to her—beautiful table-linen,
good silver, rich-looking curtains
and plain, heavy furniture. The
dining-room was beginning to look
as she would have it; nothing was
skimped or scanted, nothing over-
extravagant. It had about it the
air she wanted—an air of ceremonial
intimacy. She herself enjoyed, as
she sat in her big chair at the head
of her table, her own acknowledged
ascendancy. She knew herself not
(Continued on page 58)


INTERNATIONAL AAIB2 for
Prime Mover Power...
smmmm
; A ft .
'
Power Steering Standard Equipment
Champion of the prime-movers, the big International AA-182 is showing operators a
better way to handle their tandem-axle semi-trailers.
The International AA-182’s hydraulic power assisted steering is standard equipment.
This gives terrific control and manoeuvrability for semi-trailer work; particularly useful
when backing or in case of front tyre blow-outs. It gives practically effortless steering
but retains the necessary “feel of the road”.
The International AA-182’s mighty power plant, the Australian Blue Diamond 282, is
an engine that is designed and built to satisfy the long-distance men in every way. Rated
horsepower 34.8, maximum brake H.P., 148 at 3,800 r.p.m. and useable maximum
torque of 243.5 lb. ft. at 1,800 r.p.m. are performance facts that tell
their own story. Compression ratio of 6.8 to 1 allows maximum output
on economical fuels. A full flow oil system ensures top bearing
performance over a long life of hard work.
New heavy duty 7,000 pound ground capacity front axle and 18,000
pound capacity, 2-speed rear axle, heavier front springs, all add up
to greater potential for profit.
For new prime-mover power, now is the time to see your nearest
International Dealer or IH Sales Office about the International AA-182.
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT324/36


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 8, 1959
Vol 80—No. 4130
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
CANBERRA AND TIBET
A DEADLY thing about Commun-
ism is that its remorseless advances
have become so much a part of daily
nature that nobody seems to worry
about them any more, except in the
areas in which they are taking place.
The little Balkan countries, Hungary,
Czechoslovakia, Albania and even
Iraq, are so far away. And in the rest
of the world Communists have become
a familiar, and sometimes even a
popular, feature of trade-union life.
Isn’t Big Jim Healy a fine fellow?
Doesn’t he squeeze the fat man till
there is no juice left in him for the
benefit of the toiler? Isn’t he always
alert to get the “toiler” more pay for
less work, and raucous with indigna-
tion at his wrongs? And isn’t
Parkinson always on the doorstep when
the coal-owners sack men?
Russian Communism, of course, may
be bad, the argument goes. It is true
that the Russians have to work like
slaves and have no freedom of move-
ment, thought or speech; but look what
they are doing—bringing about the
millenium. Let’s admire them —but
not emulate their passion for work.
Anyway, who would associate the
local Communists, these kind fellows,
with brutal commissars who shoot
people in the back of the neck after
they have brainwashed them under
Kleig lights?
The facts that the local Corns are
always shrill in defence of Russian
methods, that the party was found
tightly linked-up with the Soviet spy-
sysiem. that its leaders go regularly to
Mo.tcow and there picture their native
count!y as run by a warmongering
Government which starves the workers,
have no impact on the minds of most
Australian workers. Neither do the
Hungarian atrocities. Except for the
New Australians and a few soldiers
who have been in Iron Curtain coun-
tries when things were happening, there
are few people in the Commonwealth
who can really picture what happened
in Berlin, Vienna, Budapest, Shang-
hai—or Lhasa. These events are beyond
the imaginings of a—supposedly—
secure and peaceful people.
ANY idea of Kings Cross being
plundered and George Street swept
by the automatic fire of an invading
army sent to Sydney to support the
local Communist regime seems
unthinkable.
Yet the Communist Party of Aus-
tralia supports the people who have
been doing these things in an ever-
widening circle across the world:
excusing their atrocities, holding them
up as models of humanity, spying for
them and distributing their delusive
propaganda in which there is never
anything about the countless massacres
for which Communists have been
responsible the world over.
To the Australian backers of Com-
munism the leaders behind the Iron
Curtain are gentle, idealistic fellows
who resort to violence only when the
local Menzies and his followers rises
up to implement murderous aggression.
Why shouldn’t they murder in those
circumstances? All the inhabitants of
any country in which Soviet tanks
roam the roads, or in which revolution
is being hatched and the destruction
of the' local system menaced by sub-
version, have to do is to obey the Com-
munists and nobody will shoot them.
Could anything be fairer or more
reasonable? they demand.
A LOT of Asiatic people have, unfor-
tunately, failed to sense the nature
of Communism until too late. India is
the principal one. Its views are so much
like those of the Australian A.L.P.
that it is easy to link the Australian
Labor policy of tolerance for Com-
munism with the fact that the late Ben
Chifley thought Nehru “the greatest
man in the world.”
Nehru himself has always given the
impression that he went all the way
with Mr. Chifley in this opinion, but he
is now joining the ranks of those who
discover when it is almost too late that
the Communism on one’s doorstep with
the power to open the door is a very
different thing from Communism
remotely distant in Moscow.
The Kremlin has always fawned on
Nehru. When he visited Russia he was
never without a garland round his
neck; but the garland might just as
well have been a rope. The Com-
munists of India were told to be as
mild as the Australian brand is at
election-time and not to alarm or
create antagonism to the Government
while the hunters advanced on it with
their Red nets.
It is obvious that events in Tibet
have been a rude shock to Nehru and
a ruder one to the Buddhists of the
world. If there is any country which
has minded its own business and exer-
cised the right of a small minority of
people to live its own life without
interfering with anybody outside or
asking anything from anybody it has
been Tibet. It has only asked to be
left alone.
Its Buddhist religion teaches peace
to all living things, hatred of every
form of violence or intrusion upon the
lives of either man or beast. Yet Tibet
has proved not to be immune from
Communist attack. The Tibetans have
been subjugated in their mountain
fastnesses, their civilisation destroyed
and their singing displaced by the
shouting of the raucous propagandists
of the new god Mao, who has already
turned the only one of the two senior
rulers he could catch, a youth of 21,
into a puppet, and the Dalai Lama
into a hunted fugitive with a price on
his head, his reputation aspersed by the
publication of letters obviously written
in his name in Peking. The fiction that
Tibet is an autonomous area within
China is even now dead.
IMEHRU has been forced to express
sympathy with the Tibetans, a small
people numbering only about three-
millions who have become the Hun-
garians of Asia, though he still per-
sists warily in his neutralist attitude.
He “wants friendly relations with both
Tibet and Communist China.” With
the Chinese on his northern border
threatening and bullying him and
ominously accusing India of having
allowed the Tibetan “rebels” to estab-
lish a military base on Indian soil, he
still prefers to keep India as a gap in
the South-east Asian Collective Defence
System, which comprises Australia,
France. New Zealand, Pakistan, the
Philippines, Thailand, the United
Kingdom and the United States, and
which is holding a military advisers’
conference in New Zealand.
Ceylon, five-million of whose popu-
lation of eight-million are Buddhists,
is in the same position and must be
feeling very sick about it, as must the
Burmese, wondering who will be next
on the list.
The move into Tibet on the excuse
of a “nationalist” rebellion and to
crush the last vestiges of the country’s
independence comes at a time when
Mao is beginning to build the great
militia armies which he announced in
1953 would be used for the conquest
of Southern Asia round about 1960.
It is coincident with the Western
claw of the Communist pincer into
Iraq. But timid countries and indi-
viduals who cannot envision anything
that isn’t happening in their own street
still prevent the establishment of
global defence against the creeping tide
of Communism.


"WILL THERE BE ANY SUMMIT LEFT?"


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Real Issue
Most of the debate on the Parliamen-
tary-salaries question is the product of
mass hysteria, and also is unconstructive.
Nobody asks what the incomes may
be of some of the newspaper magnates
who are making most noise, or whether
their earnings (which, judging by public
manifestations, must be many times that
proposed for the Prime Minister) are
justified.
The timing of the Parliamentary
recommendations has certainly been bad,
and there has been a Canberra-style
smugness about them. On the more con-
structive side the main question seems to
be whether the proposed recipients are
worth it, or if being a member of Par-
liament is a whole-time job.
Few outsiders are qualified to pass
judgment on this issue. The truth seems
to be that the job of a senator at least
is not, and that the amount of work
done by a member varies according to
the nature of his electorate and his own
conception of his job.
In some constituencies, well developed
and well equipped with modern facilities,
there seems to be relatively little work
to do. In others, with busy political com-
mittees and branches, especially in Labor
electorates, the member is supposed to
be everything from office-boy upwards
and to be at the beck and call of his
electors day and night..
Where a seat is held with a large
majority, the member is apt to be more
independent and to take a broader and
more dignified view of his responsibilities
than he would in a seat in which there
is a perpetual fight for a small marginal
floating vote.
Again, there are members who
make work for themselves, justi-
fiably, by becoming champions of
national causes and believe it among
their public duties to serve on Paliamen-
tary committees as if they meant it, and
try to become experts in foreign affairs,
transport or some other subject which
touches national policy. These are very
hard-worked indeed.
Generally speaking, there is among
members no real norm.
In a country in which a N.S.W. police-
sergeant is advertised in the press as
retiring on a pension of over £2O a week
—there was an instance in Sydney last
week—it has to be a pretty-poor-standard
member, supposedly capable of under-
standing the intricacies of legislation such
as the banking bills and voting intelli-
gently on it, who is not worth a salary
in the £3OOO-a-year bracket.
But the hard fact is that a very large
number of members give the impression
of not measuring-up to their status or
earnings. That, however, is the fault of
the electors and their party organisations.
Anybody who doubts the responsibility
of preselection' committees has merely
to look back through the lists of nominees
who have gone before selection bodies
in New South Wales since the war and
marvel that standards of M.P.s are nof
more deplorable. The investigator will
find that the cream of the applicants are
nearly always under a handicap. The
criterion is usually not whether a chosen
candidate will make a good and intelli-
gent member who can earn his salary,
but whether he will make a good plat-
form-spruiker and canvasser who will
appeal to the mob and perhaps steal a
few votes from the other side.
This game is played in all parties. In
the past few years the names of first-
class, and even eminent, men who
have been rejected in favor of very
nondescript competitors are numerous.
It seems that the primary issue is not
what members should be paid but that
they should be worth what they are paid.
And that cannot be achieved while it is
repugnant to first-class men to fight for
party nomination unless they are assured
a clear run and will not have to go
through the patronising ordeal of party-
selection as it is now conducted.
A World-wide Command
The reported impasse at the defence
meeting of Seato in New Zealand illus-
trates the unrealities of the defence-
structure in the Pacific.
Of the large nations involved, only
the United States has a major direct
stake in the Pacific, one more important
than ever before now that it has in the
Hawaiian Islands a new State floating
as far away from the mainland as the
Middle East is from London or the
American continent roughly, at its
nearest point, from Eire.
The United Kingdom and France have
little left in the matter of actual Pacific
colonies. The U.K.’s interest is a purely
British Commonwealth interest,, outside
Hong Kong and the Solomons and one
or two other groups of islands. France’s
interest is even less.
The rest are nations ranging down
from Pakistan to the Philippines and
New Zealand, with Australia on the way.
The centre of Seato may be regarded as
Siam, which is about as much use from
a defence point of view as a sheet of
calico.
The Americans were averse in the first
place to the United Kingdom participat-
ing in the arrangement, which they seemed
to regard as a scheme to seal the United
States’ right to consider the Pacific Ocean
as their sea in which others would con-
sent to their policies. They were pre-
pared to live up to their responsibilities,
an attitude the proof of which lies in
the existence of the United - States
Seventh Fleet and other major defences
ranging from Okinawa to the Pacific
coast of America.
Seato, from Washington’s viewpoint,
is not a co-operative league of nations
but a league of nations co-operating to
defend U.S. policies and to provide the
U.S. with defence bases.
Under the circumstances it does not
signify much that they have refused to
agree to turn Seato into another Nato
with a supreme commander agreed to by
all the countries involved. To have
agreed would have been to agree to allow
the others concerned a much greater
voice in Pacific Ocean policy.
A supreme command for Seato matters,
indeed, very little from a practical view-
point. If differences with the Com-
munists come to the showdown of a
major war, what will count is not having
an Atlantic plan or a Pacific plan but in
having a global plan and command all
ready with a warbook to cover the whole
of the civilised world with an agreed
procedure to meet- attack wherever it
may come and with trained staffs and
bases for instant action.
No global plan is possible at present
because of the gaps. India is of vital
strategic importance, but has no defences
of moment and shakes in its shoes at
the thought of having any, since this
would annoy its kind friends in Peking
.and Moscow.
A Pacific defence-alliance against
Communism which omits Japan and
Canada as major participants is like a
bucket without a bottom.
The next-best thing to unity of policy
and global agreement is for some indi-
vidual nation strong enough to make a
stand for a global policy ; this the United
States has done. And as conditions are,
the rest must follow.
If small conceits and differences did
not divide it, the British Commonwealth
might with a united policy claim a much
greater influence. But when India’s great
reservoir of fine fighting-material is inert
under the hand of Nehru, and South
Africa is more concerned with its internal
problems than the world situation, there
is not much hope of getting far.
At the same time, it is a pity that there
is not a closer link between Nato com-
mand and the Asian commands so as to
blend policies. It is unrealistic to think
primarily in terms of Europe in regard
to world war, especially in view of the
growing militarism of Red China.
Manning Clark's Moscow
Letters
[From S. H. Courtier, Caulfield, Vie.]
Professor Manning Clark’s Letters
From Moscow (B. 1/4/’59) are some of
the most staggering documents it has
been my fate to read. It seems that in
the first letter (dated November 19, 1958)
the Professor did entertain some doubts
concerning the mighty Soviet experiment,
but by November 21 all questions have
vanished and enthusiasm (including
enthusiasm for the snow) is in charge.
By then the Professor has had time
to perceive that magnificent being, the
Soviet Man. And what a man! Griba-
chov, for instance, “writes poetry, short-
stories, novels, travel-books, edits a maga-
zine with a circulation of 10,000,000, has
been round the world, fishes and hunts
bears.”
When one thinks of such all-rounders
as Conan Doyle, August Derleth, Hem-
ingway, etc., etc., and mere Australians
like Dyson, Idriess, A. H. Chisholm,
Monty Grover and others, one is over-
whelmed with shame for the effete West.
Russia is supreme in farming—the


Professor is awed by the production-
figures of a collective farm. Housing is
superb—he saw a house which was spot-
lessly clean and snug with quite a few
creature-comforts (though outdoor sani-
tation seemed to be the rule). Russian
jets and trains are magnificent. Even
the minus- 20 degrees temperature is
something no human-being can afford
to miss.
Finally, there is the wonderful stage of
culture reached in the great country. The
people have a high seriousness enriched
by gaiety and tenderness. Their solici-
tude for. the Professor when he took
his hat off in the cold demonstrates the
reluctance with which they destroy a
person!
God help you, Professor!
The Gloves Are Off
[From Canberra]
Trade Minister John McEwen left Can-
berra for Washington last Thursday
determined to take the gloves off in Aus-
tralia’s tussle with America over the
latter’s programme of surplus agricul-
tural disposals.
This time he is armed with his best
weapon to date—Australia’s decision to
ease the discrimination against imports
from the dollar-area—announced the day
before he left Mascot.
In his absence, senior trade-officials
from both Australia and Canada are also
discussing the problems created by
America’s disposal programmes, for the
creation of a possible united front to be
presented at the “Food' for Peace” con-
ference to be held in Washington next
month.
For more than 18 months McEwen,
both by personal contact and through
diplomatic channels, has been protesting
against America’s surplus - disposal
schemes.
Having received no satisfaction, he has
now gone to Washington to lay his cards
on the table and demand that America
review its existing policies.
McEwen will be unable to remain in
America for the “Food for Peace” con-
ference, which President Eisenhower has
called to discuss “the best ways of distri-
buting surplus agricultural crops, in the
interests of all countries.”
However, he will tell the American
authorities in plain terms exactly what
Australia’s views are on the matter and
what line Australian representatives will
take at the conference.
He will also argue that as Australia
has now eased discrimination against
dollar imports to about 70 p.c. of all
imported items, America should meet
Australia half-way and cease distributing
agricultural products either free or at
unrealistic prices to areas which are
natural markets for Australia, including
India and Indonesia*
In the meantime Australian and
Canadian trade officials are having a full
exchange of views on the problem of
agricultural surpluses.
The Canadians are in Australia to
negotiate a new trade-agreement with us
to replace the existing agreement, which
was signed in 1931, and which is now
out of date.
They have taken time off from the
negotiations, however, to discuss the
surpluses problem, and have told Aus-
tralia that Canadian and her own views
are compatible, as both are faced with
carryover stocks of primary products,
particularly wheat.
As a result of these talks, Australia
and Canada may present a strong com-
bined front to the United States at the
Washington Conference next May—a
front that America will have to heed.
Miss Miller's Case
Any Minister who believes that the
aborigine has no political significance
will have to reconsider the problem in
the light of the remarkable success of
the rather courageous presentation before
a press panel in Melbourne of Miss May
Miller, the W.A. 25-year-old aboriginal
schoolteacher.
Miss Miller, who caused a stir by
refusing to pay 10s. 6d. naturalisation
fee because she thought citizenship
should come as a birthright, seemed
hardly an exciting personality to present
in a top-ranking show in a medium
chiefly devoted to American guff and
glamor, but her presentation of the
aborigine case touched very many Vic-
torians and made her at least one of the
most memorable TV interviewees.
When she recalled that as a child she
had seen W.A. policemen fire shots at
adult aborigines while the children took
to the hills in fright, and that half-caste
children at one time had been rounded-
up and sent to Government reserves to
separate them from the full-bloods, she
was closely examined by the panel.
The panel clearly did not wish to be
accused later of beating-up sensations,
but, despite their questions, Miss Miller
remained unshaken, and the viewers were
'convinced that these once were actuali-
ties. It was because she was not taken
away from the mission where she was
living that she had received the education
which the children in the reserves did
not get.
Miss Miller, who readily agreed the
W.A. authorities now treat the natives
much better, said the color-bar could
still be illustrated by an incident when a
friend, a well-educated and apparently
comparatively well-to-do aboriginal girl,
arrived at a country hotel with a party
and the proprietor pointed to her and
said, “She’s an aboriginal and can go
out and sleep in the shed.”
The strong impact on the Victorian
public of Miss Miller’s interview will
lace the resolution passed by the Liberal
council-meeting calling for a national
authority to care for aborigines and to
give them full citizenship rights.
When the council was debating this
resolution Mr. Murray Porter, the
Minister for Local Government, who
cannot be accused of lack of sympathy
for the natives nonetheless, opposed it
because he felt it would be’ detrimental
to Victorian aborigines who now are
automatically entitled to the same rights
and privileges as other citizens and much
better placed than some of the completely
tribalised natives in parts of Queensland,
the Northern Territory and W.A.
Yet it must be presumed that a national
authority, with representatives of the
States and under Federal control, would
be composed of men with the intelligence
and experience needed to deal with
natives in the various stages of develop-
ment and citizenship.
The telecast may also give a lift to
the appeal by the Aborigines Advance-
ment League for 4000 Victorians to
contribute £1 a year to its work and to
become “Friends of the League.”
Compulsory Retirement
[From “Vintage 1892”]
Fundamental to the sound economy of
any democratic State is the right of every
mentally and physically fit member of
the community to do the work for which
he (or she) is best suited by training and
experience, or, failing that, the work
nearest related to it for which there is a
demand.
That privilege—while optional under
certain conditions—should be denied to
no human-being, yet, every day, highly
qualified persons with long and specialist
experience of incalculable value to the
State are forced to relinquish their life-
work for the sole reason that they happen
to have been in circulation for 65 years.
To pension them into an unwilling
idleness —unless they so desire —is an
economic folly, and the enormous cost
of such folly is emphasised by figures
released by the Department of Social
Services. They show that Australia now
has 506,000 age-pensioners, and, of these,
about 42 per cent, are in N.S.W. Every
second Australian throughout the Com-
monwealth who is over 65 is in receipt
of an age-pension!
Clock-watchers and drones are, of
course, eager to avail themselves of the
opportunity to consume without produc-
tive effort. But, to the efficient man of
65 (or to the capable woman of 60)
compulsory retirement results in mental
and physical stagnation and slow
starvation.
The public service has always excused
forced retirement on the grounds that
rapid promotion is essential if its more
intelligent and ambitious members are to
be kept within its sheltered cloisters.
That argument had some validity when
promotion was entirely controlled by
seniority and when the growth of the
several public services was slow. With
the recent meteoric rise in the number
of public servants, however, and with
the (at least, nominal) application of
ability, in addition to seniority, in decid-
ing promotion, the excuse has gone by
the board.
Compulsory retirement at any specific
age is unadulterated empiricism and
should have no place in organisations
which work —or claim to work on
scientific principles. To such bodies it
should be obvious that neither I.Q. nor
physical condition are a simple function
of the date of birth. Yet one of the
staunchest adherents to the “too old at
65” cliche is also the foremost scientific
organisation in the Commonwealth!


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TITLE-TROUBLE
“Federal President of the A.W.U., H. O.
Davis, will seek to have Federal Labor’s policy
on knighthoods and other honors tightened up.”
The menace of knighthood in flower
For Labor, they tell me, has been
The reason they stay out of power,
At least, in the Federal scene;
Proceeding, plain Eddie Ward, bed ward
To wake up next morning and face
A loud shout of “Long live Lord
Edward !” —
He’d never survive the disgrace !
If an Earldom of Paddington’s listed
And the Wharf guards in bareskins
parade,
And Calwellian serfs have insisted
That a Marquis of Melbourne be made,
They don’t defy those who’ve rebuked
’em,
They’re not seeking power and place —
But once persuade Bert to a dukedom,
And they feel it may do for his Gracel
N.S.W. SwiLLIAM.
❖ ❖ ❖
A suburban bank is beginning to
have doubts about floral dis-
plays. The banking - chamber looked
something like the Chelsea Flower Show,
and was the pride of the manager’s heart
until a swarm of bees shot inside, stung
an elderly customer on the neck and
departed. Next, the air was rent with
loud sneezing-noises, and a woman with
streaming eyes said she would have to
move her account elsewhere as the flowers
were too much for her hay-fever. Next,
a florist developed a grouch because he
thought that he should have been given
the order for the decorations as he was
a good customer of the bank. But a
grower of begonias was so taken with
what he saw in that department, going
round and identifying and naming each
bloom, that he forthwith lodged a very
substantial amount on term-deposit. It
was all somewhat disturbing, especially
as all the flowers were artificial, made
of some plastic material. —“Tom Teller.”
❖ ❖
“Duffer”: I’ve often thought racing-
car drivers were game, but after the film-
ing of the Grand Prix sequence for
Kramer’s “On the Beach” at Philip Island
I’d say the drivers were cissies compared
with the cameramen! Seated on a boom-
camera in the centre of, and just above,
the track, he trained his camera on the
Coopers, Ferraris, Lotus Specials and
Jaguars screaming down the straight at
up to 125 miles an hour, directly at his
camera ; then, at the last split-second,
the boom lifted and the cars hurtled past,
3ft. beneath the cameraman ! The drivers
admitted afterwards, as they took a few
nips to calm their nerves, that they ducked
their heads as they roared under the
camera, and prayed that the boom was
working smoothly!
♦2* *
“Bo”: The two late-model sedans were
approaching each other in the rather
narrow suburban street when, each
woman driver recognising the other’s car-
make and number, they came to a stop,
drivers’ windows opposite each other.
With no other cars in the offing either
way they stayed chatting for a few
minutes ; then a motor-cyclist came
along. Sizing-up the distance between
them, he suddenly revved-up and shot
through within a foot of their faces;
and as he passed them his bike backfired
“Even if you DID get soaked to the—er — um — skin, Miss.. . Er — um —
you'll have to remember the firm is NOT a public laundry!"
with a terrific bang. The woman in the
three-toned job gasped. “Well,” she said,
“the hide of him, Joan! He did that on
purpose ! ”
❖ ❖ *>
“Roger Mike”: Candidate addressing a
meeting at Merredin in the last W.A.
elections: “And now I pause to ask
myself this question . . One of the
audience filled in the gap: “I bet you get
a silly answer!”
»> *l*
“C.A.A.”: Compere of a national
quiz, having condensed a prolix question
for the benefit of his panel and listeners,
added with pride and relief: “Well, that’s
about the guts of it.”
i ❖ *l*
“Daisy”: The challenge to the right
of women to sit in the S.A. Legislative
Council is apparently to be based on the
fact that a woman is not a “person,” as
required by the Act. According to Cham-
bers, a “person” is a living soul or a
self-conscious being; a personality ; a
human-being, sometimes used slightingly
or patronisingly —if that doesn't let
women in, what does?
*
“Becks”: In a game effort to surmount
TV competition some Sydney suburban
theatres are showing first-release films
simultaneously with city theatres. No
change in admission-prices at first, but
last week the one I patronise jacked-up
the price by Is. 3d. Which accounts for
the disgusted remark of the woman
ahead of me in the queue: “What do
they think' they are? Politicians?”
❖ ♦>
“Lillydale”: Forty years of humor
derived from Victorian and Edwardian
women who wore such trammelling
volumes of furbelows remind me of
waltzing in 'O9 a sweet young thing to
De Gilio’s orchestra applying the closure
with Tosti’s “Good-bye.” She, naturally
pretty streamlined in the chassis, con-
fided with cousinly exuberance that she
was wearing five petticoats in addition
to her normal flannelette. Last week my
niece, whose gradient between vital
statistics is not very steep, bade me good-
night on her way to dance. With
avuncular licence, I remarked on the
nether billowness. She whispered in my
ear: “Five starched petticoats!”


\l7hen Sydney’s radio - stations first
received their call - signs, 2FC
was to represent Farmer and Company,
who operated it; 2BL represented
Broadcasters, Ltd. (the firm which ran it),
while 2SM (if I remember aright) was
inspired by St. Mary’s Cathedral. A
popular belief is that 2GB stands for
“Good Broadcasting . . but there are
still a few of us who happen to know
that the GB in its call-sign was originally
given to it (believe it or not) to honor
the memory of Giordano Bruno, the 16th
century Italian philosopher - martyr. —
“Maitri.”
“W.M.”: At Sydney Show an atten-
dant in the cattle - pavilion interrupted
the clipping of a Jersey lily to give a
fellow-attendant a rapid back-and-sides
trim.
❖ ❖ *X*
“0.W.W.”: The 75th Jubilee of
Eltham (N.Z.) was celebrated by the 62-
year-old “Argus,” last of Taranaki’s
tri-weeklies, with a well-illustrated glossy-
paper issue of 20 pages. “The Eltham
Argus,” which gave The Bulletin’s
Douglas Stewart a start, had one of its
theatrical reviews of early in this century
reprinted by London “Punch”:
The Dramatic Company gave a
performance at the Athenaeum Hall last
night. The performers escaped on the
mail-train this morning.
<•>
“Eliza”: At Billy Graham’s final Mel-
bourne meeting (all-time record crowd
of 130,000) dozens of women were seated
and standing in the hallowed M.C.G.
section always reserved for men. I was
showing a snap to a friend, an M.C.G.
member for some 39 years ; he shook
his head slowly, and sadly said: “Billy
Graham or no Billy Graham, that is
nothing short of sacrilege!”
♦j*
“E.H.M.”: Found four small boys out
camping ; it was dusk, and they had four
eggs in a billy of cold water ; they said
they were soaking them overnight because
they wanted soft boiled eggs for breakfast.
♦J4
“Fair Mac”: A weather-worn sign
above a little shop in a backwater of
Darlinghurst (Sydney) announced that the
occupant was a boot - repairer and
bespoke bootmaker. The “bespoke”
puzzled me ; the only time I’d heard it
before was in depression-days, when fire-
wood was a burning problem, and I
asked a council foreman could I have
the white-ant-ruined electricity-pole his
gang had replaced ; he told me in an
English accent that it had already been
“bespoke.” Couldn’t see how the term
could be applied to a bootmaker, until
an old gent explained that a “bespoke”
bootmaker measured the foot and made
the footwear to fit.
❖ ❖ i*
“John O”: Glad to see that there are
still Beresford-Peirses (B. 18/3/’59) still
around. I was christened by one; my
“I TOLD you to go easy on the whisky at the party."
father attended a lodge named after one
of the family in Bedale (Yorks), and a
8.-P. later read his burial-service. Forty-
eight years ago a tired mother with a
screaming child was accosted at the
Rectory garden-party: “That child’s got
a pin,” accused the grand-dame. The
mother, too tired to argue, handed the
squalling brat to the grand-dame and
said wearily “Have a look.” The child
was undressed before the assembled
ladies beneath a huge copper-beech tree
and, no offending pin being discovered,
received the admonition: “Young man,
the Devil’s in you!” The grand-dame
was Lady Beresford-Peirse ; the child
was me.
❖ <♦
“H.C.8.”: Despite the prophecies of
pessimists, the possibility of N.S.W.
school-kids ever becoming tigers in a
“Blackboard Jungle” is growing less and
less likely if only because you can’t have
a blackboard jungle without blackboards,
and the Education Department is steadily
replacing them with “chalk-boards,” and
the new-’uns are dark-green.
* * *
“Two Jays”: Mrs. Jay, who detests
soap-operas, listens to one just to see,
so she says, how silly it can get. After
many weeks from station “A” she found
it on station “B” a few episodes ahead ;
so, if she missed B, she could catch-up
when A reached that point. This week
the story concluded from station B with
the villainess confessing to attempted
murder, and admitting an attempt to
obtain money by pretending that she was
about to become a mother. Also, the
crook goes to jail, mother-in-law sees the
error of her ways, and the hero and
heroine find the happiness they deserve.
However, it hasn’t concluded from
station B ; the villainess is still up to
her dirty tricks, and —wonder of wonders
—the doctor says she is about to become
a mother! I’ll admit it’s beyond me, but
Mrs. Jay wilt no doubt go on listening
“just to see how silly it can get.”
♦♦4 A. A.
V V V
“Eureka”: Near Blackheath Park, on
the Blue Mountains of N.S.W., was a
traffic-sign reading: “No Parking West
Of This Notice.” So many visitors who
parked west of the notice pleaded that
they didn’t know which was west that a
second notice was erected: “This Is
West.”
♦> *>
“W.P.T.”: St. Phillip’s Church of
England, Sydney, certainly has clock-
faces but no clock, “Central” (B. 4/3/’59),
but just as strange is St. John’s Church
of England, Darlinghurst, where there is
a clock that chimes the hours and quarter-
hours, but no visible clock-face.
* ❖ ❖
“Beam”: Age shall not weary them .. .
It’s amazing how cagey women are.
Between 35 and 70 you wouldn’t wonder
so much ; but after that, w'hy worry?
Yet they do. In a home for aged women
one of the residents was pointing out
her friends. “She’s deaf, poor thing.
Thinks everyone is talking about her,
which isn’t true. That one in front is


blind. And that one, the one who was
making all the noise, is a great one for
the boys. She’s ninety-four. She makes
out she’s ten years younger, but I know
she’s ninety-four. I wouldn’t let on,
though. She’d die if she knew 1 knew
how old she was!”
❖ ❖ *t*
“H.A.L.”: The College of Arms, often
miscalled the College of Heralds, which
adjudicates on armorial bearings, and
which has occupied the same London
building since 1666, always makes scorn-
ful comments when double-effed sur-
names are submitted to it. As “An
Chuidh” (B. 4/3/’59) says, it all arose
because the capital “F” in Old English
type-face looks very like the modern
“If.” A family named French is supposed
to have started spelling their name
ffrench, claiming it to be the way it
was done in Norman times, and then the
usual imitations sprang up, such as ffolliot
and fforbes.
♦+♦ +!♦
“Liddell”: Homer is said to have
nodded, so “P. Nuyts” can claim to have
nodded in good company when he said
(B. 31/3/’59) the Greek word- for
“I write” was “plumbago,” when he
obviously meant “grapho.” But where
on earth were Charlie Shaw's glasses that
such a blue should be perpetrated in the
sanctum?
♦> ♦>
“Kirribilli”: Compulsory voting must
puzzle many New Australians. Outside
a North Sydney polling-station a young
man handing out leaflets informed an
elderly lady: “It doesn’t matter how you
vote, but you must put a number in every
square! ”
“Fontaine”: We’ve had a lot about
“but,” but what about “on”? We speak '
of people living, walking or standing “in
a street”; the Americans say “on.” In
the American-made musical “My Fair
Lady” there’s a number called “On the
Street Where You Live.” Stanley Kramer
apologised in a Melbourne advertisement
for the inconvenience caused to traffic
“on the streets of the city” during the
filming of scenes for “On the Beach.”
But the preposition used that way won’t
catch on here ; it has an embarrassing
association with perambulating ladies of
dubious virtue.
❖ <3* ♦>
“Harry the Horse”: Saturday morn-
ing, the butcher's shop crowded, in she
came with the twins. The butcher had
arranged on two large slabs a collection
of his specials, cutlets, kidneys, lamb-
chops, sausages . . . While mother was
deciding on the week-end roast the two
little darlings scooped-up from the floor
double-handfuls of sawdust and shied the
lot all over the specials. I daresay the
sausages came off best; they could be
run under the tap ; but how Mr. Chopper
dealt with the rest I don’t know. Next
time that woman entered the shop with
her offspring it happened that the butcher
was reaching for a large and deadly-
looking knife. You could have cut the
silence with it.
❖ ❖ *t*
“Maitri”: A Sydney woman who’d
given hospitality to Asian students here
under the Colombo Plan took a plane-
trip to Europe, and on the way spent
a day or two in Bangkok. A party of
students, back in their homeland, came
to the hotel to invite her to a “British”
afternoon-tea on the canals. Off they
sailed, in broiling, humid heat. Sharp
at - 4-o’clock, on came the tea, which
the young folk must have gone to con-
siderable trouble to procure: scones,
fruit-cake and even butter and milk, the
last items rarities in Thailand. Most of
the butter oozed into the canal before
the visitor could get it on her scones and
the milk was a bit high, but all the more
acceptable for its difficulty, while the
piece-de-resistance, kept till the end, was
an iced cake depicting in vividly-colored
sugar an amazing likeness (considering
the fact that the icing was running in the
heat) of Queen Elizabeth.
“Geep”: Mate of mine once smoked
20 a day. He decided to give it up, but
after a couple of months took to them
again with such enthusiasm that he was
soon on 40 a day. Persuaded by current
propaganda to try again, he survived a
month before returning, with renewed
enthusiasm, to build-up to his present
daily tally of 60. This is the basis of his
claim that he can’t afford to give-up
smoking.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Machonokie”: How long does tinned
stuff last? At the laboratories of the
British Food Manufacturing Industries
Research Association in England
two tins of meat from the stores
of H.M.S. Fury (lost in the Arctic in
1824) were opened, and the openers
wished they were shut. But a Christmas-
pudding, intended for troops at the
Boer War, proved quite edible.
“Boro-Belle”: In 1915 I had a para-
graph published on the Red Page saying
that every reporter should have a camera
in his kit, and gave instances of the
extra money to be made. In the last
44 years news-photos have increased in
demand and price. Here in Queensland
the Brisbane “Courier” pays £2 25.,
Townsville “Register” £1 Is. and reason-
able expenses, while, a year or two back,
a Sydney paper paid a Mackay reporter
£4O for boarding their plane and taking
two pictures of the Paluma, a four-masted
English freighter on the rocks near the
Percy Islands. In all the tourist-areas
booksellers are wanting unusual shots
for postcards, such as girls riding turtles,
photos of dugong, sharks, groper and
crocodiles. In last year’s Mackay floods,
when planes couldn’t land for three
days, an amateur with an Bmm. cine-
camera sold his flood-pictures to Fox
Movietone News for £9 a foot, a total
of £2OO for the pictures used.
ASTRAL AUGURS
“Taurians: Family disputes should be banned
tomorrow before they cause unexpected
catastrophe."— Sydney “Sun” astrological note.
Heed a potent, pithy warning:
Should the missus, in the morning,
Start to bite your head off, savage as a
saurian,
And you sense a blue beginning —-’
Halt! You have no. hope of winning,
For the stars proclaim it’s fatal for a
Taurian.
If unable to persuade her
To postpone it, then evade her.
Perpend: If you’re at sixes and at
sevens,
Exercising temper vicious
On a day that's inauspicious,
Why ! You must incur the whole
wrath of the heavens.
Let us make clear the position :
Astrologic prohibition
Beyond your own menage is not ex-
tended.
You may spend the day they mention
lit a welter of contention
If you feel that way ; the stars won’t
be offended.
But inside your roof-tree —can it!
All the astral bodies ban it,
On that you can put absolute reliance.
So, if you'd invite a plaster
Of the stickiest disaster,
Just go ahead, and try-out your
defiance !
Please observe the implication :
Catastrophic devastation
Will be yours only on the day that’s
stated ;
Outside that—-well, any chappie
In a scrap, can feel quite happy
That by his strife he won’t be subju-
gated.
When you ponder it, it’s really
Marvellous to think that, freely —
For benefit of bold ones and the
nervous —
We have secret-busting masters
Who can warn us of disasters,
And the rags to pass to us this
wondrous service !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Sydney’s George Street North police-
station has been scandalous over
the years in that an officer of the
Force was alleged to have climbed up the
face of the building and placed a baton
in the mouth of the stone lion above the
main entrance ; the station also has a
plaque of the Royal Australian Historical
Society: “The site of the first General
Hospital in Australia, 1788-1816.” Should
the story about the baton be true, I draw
attention to the station in Clarence Street,
which has a key in the mouth of the
lion. Was that placed there by some
daring officer? —“Central.”
*£♦ *J4
“Kinta”: The death in Canberra of
Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Barnard re-
called the old pioneering days in New
Guinea and the Coolgardie goldfield.
Mrs. Barnard, who was born in Sydney,
was the daughter of Captain Runcie, a
famous captain in the days of sail. He
commanded the London Missionary
Society’s sailing - ship John Williams,
which traded between Sydney and New
Guinea and the South Seas, and from the
age of 14 Mrs. Barnard sailed with her
father on many voyages to Papua and the
South Sea Islands. In 1896 she married
James Vincent Barnard and went as a
bride to the Coolgardie goldfield, where
she first lived in a bag hut. From Cool-
gardie she went with her husband plant-
ing in the Solomon Islands in 1912,
remaining there until 1916, when she re-
turned to Sydney. During the last five
years she h9d lived in Canberra with
a son
♦♦♦
“Pat”: Surely no previous age has
offered such a variety of inducements
for the propagation of the race? The
baby - bofius and child - endowment are
old-hat. Expectant parents of triplets,
quadruplets, or more, can always be sure
of cashing-in on wonderful publicity
rewards. And those of us who can
manage only one or two at a time needn’t
despair. A baby-show held in a Sydney
suburb offered excellent prizes for such
individual features as: Child with the
Most Appealing Eyes, Child with the
Deepest Dimples, Girl with the Curliest
Hair, Boy with the Widest Grin, etc. On
the way home, I overheard two young
couples debating the economic advisa-
bility of Mum giving up her job to
produce a couple of prize-winners.
* * *
“W.P.T.”: Tell “Hattie Hop” (B.
11/3/ ’59) that she will sec plenty of
penholders in use in post-offices, banks,
insurance-offices and many other public
places. How long will it be before they
provide bail-point pens, even if they have
to chain them down?
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ +♦♦
“Fairf”: Old Granville railway-station
(N.S W.) has been pensioned-off, replaced
by a new station even closer to Clyde—
which surely must clinch the contention
that Clyde and Granville are closer
“It’s all part of the family tradition , sir.”
together than any other above-ground
stations in Australia. Granville was an
old station when I first saw it, 42 years
ago, and it had r. feature I’ve never seen
in a station since: an island platform,
in addition to platforms on both sides
of the tracks. Thus passengers could
alight on either left or right side of the
carriages. The convenience was out-
weighed by the danger, since the guard
couldn’t watch both sides of the train
when giving the start-signal. There were
several accidents, a mortal one in 1926
being, no doubt, the reason for the
island platform’s removal, leaving the
station as it remained until its fade-out.
* * *
“M.W.”: The comic - strips probably
got there first, but in England the
Nottingham police have experimented
successfully with pocket radio-receivers,
over which they can be called from head-
quarters. Dick Tracy’s two-way wrist-
radio now seems at least feasible.
♦> *>
“Duffer”: Just what constitutes a bob’s-
worth of chips? A pound of apples is
a pound of apples, or a dozen frankfurts
contains one dozen —but oh, those chips!
The fish-’n’-chip man ladles out some
chips with his little wire scoop, adds or
subtracts a few, and there’s your bob’s-
worth! How do the fish-’n’-chip blokes
know how many chips you are supposed
to get for Is? Is there the same weight
in the bob’s-worth from St. Kilda and
Redfern, or do they just guess?
♦♦♦ *4?
“Ailsey”: The young blood across the
street, packing to go off to New Zealand,
put in his grips (and, remember, he was
to travel by air): 42 pairs socks, 24
shirts, 6 suits and a tuxedo, 2 dress-shirts,
16 ties, 3 cravats, 5 pairs shoes, 1 over-
coat. When Mum suggested that he take
a pullover, since New Zealand, even in
the autumn, could be cold, he replied:
“Aw, what are you trying to do —load
me down?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cowyard Kate”: The wedding was a
hasty one. Daughter seemed delighted ;
Mother most upset, but, to save face in
the community, insisted on bridal finery.
At the end of the breakfast Daughter
whipped off the veil and threw it in her
mother’s lap: “Here, Mum, you look
after this ; it’ll do for a throwover for
the bassinet.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Although the Japs
seem to stage most of the more spec-
tacular suicides, their rate isn’t shown
in a World Health Organisation survey.
In the U.S. the rate is about 10 per
100,000 of population, in England
and Wales it is 11.8, in Scotland 7.8, in
the Federal Republic of Germany 18.8,
and in Canada 7.6. What about Aus-
tralia? It’s unhappily a bit worse than
the U.S., with 10.8. Why?
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Stan”: With the thermometer over
the hundred, the young lad was trying
to impress on me the correct way to
transport goldfish on a hot day. “Keep
the lid screwed on tightly,” he said, hand-
ing me the jar. Surprised by these rather
unorthodox methods, I asked, “Why?”
“Because if you don’t you’ll let the air
out,” he replied with a tone of finality.


POLITICAL POINTS
On Thursday Premier Cahill completed
his seventh year as Premier of N.S.W.
Only Bertram Stevens has had a longer
continuous term in the office; Cahill has
only to remain in the job until June 27
to equal the record.
• •
Cahill’s new Cabinet contains only
two new names Patrick Darcy Hills,
M.L.A. for King and a former
Lord Mayor of Sydney, and Phillip
Norman Ryan, M.L.A. for Marrickville.
These two replace J. F. McGrath, Minis-
ter for Public Works, who has retired
from politics, and W. Goilan, Minister
for Lands, who did not stand for re-
election to Cabinet.
Ryan has been allotted the Public
Works portfolio and Hills has been
designated Minister Assisting the Premier
and Treasurer. This is a new post
(though Clive Evatt was Assistant-
Treasurer under McGirr) and, coupled
with the placing of Hills fifth in Cabinet
ranking, it has given rise to suggestions
that Hills is to be groomed as Cahill’s
successor. Joe denies that Pat is a
trainee-Premier; other Ministers aren’t
so sure.
® •
Most Ministers have retained the port-
folios they had in the old Parliament,
but J. M. McMahon, formerly Minister
Without Portfolio, will now be Minister
for Lands and Housing Minister Landa
will in addition look after Co-operative
Societies, formerly under the control of
Chief Secretary Gus Kelly.
• •
Tasmania may have an early election
—one is due before October, anyway—
as a result of the removal from Cabinet
of Dr. Turnbull, Treasurer and Health
Minister. The decision to terminate
Turnbull’s appointments was taken by
caucus on Saturday night as a sequel to
Premier Reece’s reprimanding of the
Treasurer for twice walking out of
Cabinet-meetings. Turnbull is one of the
Labor members for Bass ; if his endorse-
ment by the A.L.P. is withdrawn it is
expected that he will stand as an Inde-
pendent.
• •
Lismore provided the closest finish in
the N.S.W. election —the closest, in fact,
for many years. Sitting member J. S.
Easter (C.P.) trailed Independent C. J.
Campbell from the early stages of the
count and over the last week only two or
three votes separated them. When all
papers were in Campbell was still one
vote ahead, but a recount gave the verdict
to Easter by two. Final scores: Easter
(C.P.), 7996 ; Campbell (Ind.), 7994.
• •
Close as the Lismore vote was, there
have been narrower wins. In the early
thirties R. T. Ball won Corowa by only
one vote. At the Queensland general
election in 1957 Lonergan (C.P.) defeated
Frank Forde (A.L.P.) by one vote, after
several recounts. The election was sub-
sequently upset and at a by-election six
months later Lonergan won handsomely.
Deadheats have been recorded on at
least three occasions, the most recent
being Pilbara (W.A.) in 1947. The
returning-officer (following custom) gave
his casting-vote to the sitting member,
but on appeal the election was upset.
As in Flinders, the by-election put the
same man in with an increased majority.
This didn’t happen in the Federal elec-
torate of Ballaarat, where a deadheat
occurred in 1919. The returning-officer
gave his vote to E. T. Kerby and not
the sitting member David McGrath.
McGrath disputed the election and
another poll was held in July 1920 ; he
won this easily and continued to repre-
sent Ballaarat for another 14 years. The
only deadheat which didn’t result in a
fresh election seems to be Rosewood
(Q.), decided on the returning-officer’s
vote in 1904.
• •
“Bolivar”: Whether the Liberal and
Country parties, put into office in
Westralia by the preference-votes of the
D.L.P., are really happy about their
position is problematic. A party that polls
about nine per cent, of the votes and
holds the balance of power is likely to
demand its pound of flesh—and there
are no Portias in the L.C.P. ranks. The
D.L.P. leader is reported as saying that
his party is now in a position to put
any Government it chooses into power.
He hasn’t disclosed his party’s price,
but as soon as it seemed certain that the
Labor Government had been beaten
letters urging Government subsidies to
denominational schools appeared in the
Perth papers.
• •
Speaker Ray Maher told the “Sun-
Herald” “my joy in life is good com-
panions and good conversation.” How
he’s going to enjoy those N.S.W.
Assembly debates!
• •
[From Canberra]
D-Day for the salaries-report:—-
Although Labor leaders, like Cabinet, are
stunned at the outcry against the Richardson
report the Parliamentary executive of the A.L.P.
is expected to recommend caucus this morning
to accept it in full, in which case passage of
the necessary legislation seems assured.
Dr. Evatt and most senior Labor members
want caucus to adopt the report, but another
influential section of the A.L.P. sees it as a
golden opportunity* for the party to be placed
in a new light before the electorate, which for
10 years has refused to trust Labor on the
Treasury benches.
If caucus decides to reject the report the
Prime Minister may shelve the whole business.
If he doesn't, the legislation faces almost
certain defeat in the Senate. A few rebels
cannot prevent its passage through the Reps.,
but a solid Labor vote in the Senate, aided by
two Government Senators—Wright (Tas.) and
Wood (Q.) —who have stated they will vote
against it, will sound the death-knell.
Criticism such as has been voiced in the past
fortnight cannot be ignored, but, human nature
being what it is, members of all parties will
find it hard to resist the chance of an
additional £l3 a week, together with all other
benefits contained in the report.
P.M. Menzies still thinks Labor will support
the recommendations, and he has the legislation
ready for submission to Parliament almost
immediately the outcome of today’s vital
meetings is known.
“ Whaffor! Must be Parliamentary celery !”


Mixed metaphors are the backbone
of a politician’s rhetoric, so it’s not really
surprising that Arthur Calwell should see
the D.L.P. as “a thorn in the side of the
A.L.P. and a cancer in the body of
politics.”
• •
Some of the most touching heart-
burning about the Federal pay-rises is
in Spring Street, Melbourne, where the
M.L.A.s and M.L.C.s had hoped the
tribunal investigating the pay of Vic-
torian Parliamentarians would get into
the picture with some modest increases
before the Federal M.P.s hit the hostile
spotlight. Bolte is expected to get the
tribunal’s report in a day or two. After
that his riming for releasing it will be very
interesting indeed.
e e
Adelaide is giving Melbourne’s
diamond-turn a tryout at the intersection
of King William Street with Grenfell and
Currie Streets. If it produces the hoped-
for smoother flow of traffic it will be
adopted at other suitable points in the
city.
9 9
The new Westralian Liberal-Country-
party Government —balanced on a tight-
rope held by two Independent Liberals
—was sworn-in last Thursday. Six of
the Ministers are Liberals, four Country
party. Cabinet comprises David Brand
(Lib.), Premier, Treasurer and Minister
for Tourists ; A. F. Watts (C.P.), Deputy
Premier, Attorney-General and Minister
for Education and Electricity ; G. Wild
(Lib.), Works and Water Supply; C.
Court (Lib.), Industrial Development,
Railways and North-west; D. Nalder
(C.P.), Agriculture; A. Griffith (Lib.),
Mines and Housing; S. Bovell (Lib.),
Lands, Migration and Forests; C.
Perkins (C.P.), Transport, Police, Labor
and Native Welfare; R. Hutchinson
(Lib.), Chief Secretary and Minister for
Health ; L. Logan (C.P.), Local Govern-
ment, Townplanning and Child Welfare.
Apart from the Premier and Deputy-
Premier, the only Minister with previous
experience is Gerald Wild, who was
Minister for Housing and Forests in the
McLarty Government.
• ©
Ray Maher, who surprised his col-
leagues, his opponents and probably him-
self by holding the North Sydney seat
for Labor, followed up that success by
coming from nowhere to win caucus en-
dorsement for the Speakership by 25 votes
to 24, displacing W. Lamb who had held
the job since 1947.
* •
The A.W.U. in Victoria has had a
popular win for bushfire-fighters against
the Forests Commission. Bushfire-
fighters are, very properly, highly re-
garded in Victoria, and the commission
could not be accused of trying too hard
against the A.W.U. claims. The tough
boys now will get paid for the time spent
travelling to fires, free food from their
employers, Bs. a night camping-out allow-
ance, up to £5 for damaged clothing or
footwear, and better week-end rates. On
days when they turn-out, but rain puts
out the fires, they will be paid—gladly,
no doubt.
9 9
A meeting of Commonwealth and
State officials in Canberra is discussing
plans to attract more overseas investment
to Australia. The object is to co-ordinate
campaigns and avoid cut-throat competi-
tion. Stress will be placed on long-
term investment and development and
wherever possible attempts will be made
to persuade concerns opening up in this
country to admit local capital into
partnership.
9 9
Melbourne Tramways has come up
with another shocker, a deficit of £1.2
million last year and the lowest number
of passengers carried for 18 years. Minis-
ter for Transport Warner, cushioning the
effect, announced cheerfully a few days
before the report was published that he
expected this year to get the deficit
down to a don’t-give-it-a-second-thought
£300,000.
The Tramways Board blames those
accursed private cars, the drift to outer
suburbs served only by trains and women
inconsiderately shopping in the suburbs.
Cogent reasons not mentioned are the
long waits for trams at peak-periods, the
inability to get a foothold when they
arrive (or even before they arrive on
some reputed safety zones) and high
fares.
It could also be that other cities’
transport-authorities are right and Mel-
bourne’s wrong and that there isn’t any
economic demand, or room, in a bursting
city for a street-railway.
* m
It’s just as well the Richardson Com-
mittee decided not to feel “fettered” by
price- or wage-indicators in preparing its
report on Federal members’ salaries. Be-
tween the adoption of the old Richardson
report in July, 1956, and the release of
the new one just before Easter the C-
series index rose by about nine per cent,
and the Federal basic wage by just under
six per cent. If the committee had
allowed itself to be fettered it might have
found it difficult to find reasons for
tacking 17 per cent, on to a salary two of
its members thought “proper” in 1956,
41 per cent, on to allowances which then
seemed “fair” and 60 per cent, on to
travelling allowances it then thought
“adequate.”
• 9
Recession in the American motor-car
industry seems to be past history. “U.S.
News and World Report” quotes authori-
ties in Detroit as anticipating 30 per cent,
more sales this year than last year. Esti-
mated sales for January-February show
figures running close to this 920,000
vehicles compared with 720,000 in the
first two months of 1958. Business in
imported cars is booming ; 77,000 were
sold during the period, compared with
40,000 in Jan.-Feb. 1958. The corre-
sponding figures for U.S.-built cars were
843,000 and 680,000.
Twenty-six of 91 prisoners in the re-
training prison at Bendigo (Vic.) helped
to stem a fire in the administrative block ;
three were injured, one seriously, and all
took risks. It was an earnest of the
success of the re-training scheme which
aims at teaching prisoners to get an
honest living and also of how penal re-
forms have lagged in Australia. The
maximum remission from their sen-
tences the Director of Penal Services may
order is seven days.
e •
“If a substantial cash surplus is realised
overall in Government operations, this
may lead to some hope of a tax-
reduction,” N.Z.’s Finance Minister told
the Otago branch of the Accountants’
Society. “The extent of such a reduction
will depend on the likely expenditure for
the ensuing year and on the availability
of loan moneys to finance that section
of Government capital expenditure which
is more properly a charge on the tax-
payer of the future than on the taxpayer
of today,” he added.
“On the other hand, if the overall
result of the year’s operations is a cash
deficit, the likelihood of tax-reductions
in the absence of a substantial upsurge
of loan receipts is more remote.”
As Mr. Nordmeyer had said earlier,
“If there is any surplus at all it will
certainly not be a large one,” N.Z. tax-
payers can make their own assessment of
their prospects for relief.
• •
Uniform divorce, promised for this
Federal Parliament, has a thorny path
to travel before it becomes law. Some
powerful arguments have be«n submitted
to Attorney-General Barwick by the
League of Women Voters of N.S.W.,
which strongly supports the proposal of
a committee to investigate “the needs
and desires of the Australian people in
the divorce field.” The league criticises
the draft bill for “imprecise phraseology,”
for the omission of provision for a
decree of judicial separation (“which
may deprive large numbers of women of
existing facilities for legal protection”),
and for the non-inclusion of separation
for a specified number of years linked
with no possibility for reconciliation. It
claims that some of the grounds are
narrower than in State legislation; it
believes that the rights of the deserted
wife in the matrimonial home should be
specifically defined ; and it considers that
the extent to which the Federal law will
override State law is not precisely defined.
• •
“Stromlo”: Partly because of dis-
satisfaction with Federal treatment of
Queensland’s financial requests, and
partly because of a desire to encourage
the Nicklin Government in its pro-
gramme, Queensland back-benchers at
Canberra are seeking a conference with
the State Cabinet in Brisbane. They pro-
pose to discuss with State Ministers the
problems of the financing and developing
of Queensland —and the talks may have
considerable significance at a later stage,
including moves at the Premiers’ Con-
ference scheduled for May or June.


Personal
ITEMS
James Plimsoll, senior assistant-
secretary of the Department of External
Affairs, has been appointed Australia’s
permanent representative at the U.N. in
New York, succeeding Dr. Ronald
Walker, recently made Australian Ambas-
sador to Paris. Plimsoll, who will have
the rank of Ambassador, is a trained
diplomat who has served at the Australian
Embassy in Washington and with the
U.K. Commission in Korea. He’s no
stranger at U.N. headquarters, either,
having served there for a brief term under
Walker's charge.
RICHARD GREENWOOD, foundation
Professor of Geography at the University
of Queensland, graduated at Cambridge
and was a cartographer in the Admiralty
Hydrographic Department from 1939-46.
He was lecturer in geography at the
University of Otago, Dunedin (N.Z.),
before crossing to Brisbane.
Touching-down at Perth airport at the
beginning of a lecture-tour of Australian
universities, Cecil F. Powell is Professor
of Physics at the University of Bristol;
he was Nobel prizewinner for physics
in 1950. The widespread application of
science to everyday affairs, he says, is
creating a new epoch in the history of
mankind. His own special interest is in
mesons, the name given to sub-atomic
particles, which are believed to hold the
world together.
• •
“K.R.” At Sydney’s Royal Show Vic-
torian axeman Jack O’Toole won the
woodchopping “Champion of Cham-
pions” award, carrying special prize-
money donated by Sir Edward Hall-
strom. O’Toole also won the Britstand
Trophy (the axeman’s Oscar) —which he
had also won in 1951, 1955 and 1956 —
as well as several individual events. Now
41, the 16st. Constable O’Toole has been
in the Victorian police-force since 1942 ;
before that he was a timbercutter and
logging-contractor. He’s been competing
in woodchops for 24 years, and holds
several world-records.
• •
Moderator-designate of the Presbyterian
Church of Victoria, Rev. Archibald
Crichton, minister of Scots, Melbourne,
served as chaplain to the Black Watch
and at Scottish Command h.q. in War
11. He was called from a Glasgow charge
to Melbourne in 1946, and is due to be
installed as Moderator in October.
• •
Born in England and coming to Aus-
tralia in 1918, invalided after being
captured by the Reds in Russia —charac-
teristically, he fought in the Royal Naval
Air Service armored-car detachment—
Michael Terry might mention, if you’re
asking him about things, that he’s led a
few expeditions in Central Australia and
written a couple of books. Questioned
closer, he will confess to 14 expeditions
and seven books the best-known of
these, Across Unknown Australia and
Sand and Sun. He's been attacked by
blacks, nearly died of thirst, found gold
—all of which, he says, are what an
explorer of the Centre would be expected
to have done or have had done to him.
These days Terry lives at Terrigal
(N.S.W.), where he has a farm and spends
his time growing fruit and vegetables,
doing some timber-work and breeding
trotters, as well as writing for magazines,
radio and TV. He’s proud of his
specialised sweet table-corn, and has
developed a multicolored species (“rain-
bow-corn”) for table-decoration. His
farm he calls Dummer, after his family's
old home in Hampshire. The loss of the
family fortunes he lays on the head of
a great-grandfather, Colonel Hunter, who
was a bit too fond of the Turf, but who
at least got his name in the books as the
first man to win the Derby with a grey.
• •
“C.R.”: Fifty years in the Labor move-
ment, 30 in public life and 21 in the
Senate —71-year-old Jim Fraser can well
call it a day. Back in Perth for his well-
earned retirement, he first came to
Westralia when quite young (still retains
a trace of Scottish accent, though) and
linked-up with trade-union affairs when
a driver on the Perth tramways. Elected
to Perth City Council in 1928, he went
to the Senate in 1937, to become
assistant-Minister for Commerce four
years later and hold various portfolios,
including Health and Social Services,
External Territories and Trade and Cus-
toms, in the Cabinets of John Curtin, and
Ben Chifley.
• •
Planning to make his home in Aus-
tralia and turn-out film and TV docu-
mentaries, David Berneville-Claye is an
adventurous Englishman who was a
sabotage-agent for the Allies in Germany
during War 11. After parachuting into
Germany he hid from the Gestapo in
the attic of a Berlin family and subse-
quently married the daughter of the
house. Since then he has worked with
the Rank organisation.
• •
“Ailsey”: Rev. C. J. MacAulay, who,
at 80, lately celebrated the jubilee of his
ordination in the N.S.W. Methodist
Church, has served in all parts of N.S.W.
He was in the A.I.F. for three years in
War 1 as a chaplain. For the past 10
years he has been assistant-minister in
the Mayfield (Newcastle) circuit.
• •
Hal Morgan, instructor and supervisor
at Langridge’s Gymnasium, Sydney,
helps build bodies and teaches boxing
and wrestling, counting among his cus-
tomers doctors, lawyers, artist blokes like
the one who here pictures him, and
a host of other blokes in general who
just want to keep fit.
Born in Sydney, Morgan went to the
Central,Technical College, hoping to be-
come an architectural draughtsman, but
the depression beat him, and, being active
in all kinds of sport, he turned to the
only lucrative one open to him—pro-
fessional boxing, sparring as a middle-
weight with the best of ’em at that period
GYMMAN


—Ambrose Palmer, Jack Courtney,
Deacon Kelly. Then, odd as it sounds,
broken hands from a car-accident finally
forced him to change again—to wrestling!
After War II he conducted his own
gym. at the Domain Baths and later
taught boxing and amateur wrestling at
Sydney University. Then Singapore,
wrestling under contract, thence back
again to the Domain gym., until he joined
Langridge’s 15 months ago. He’s worked
as a film-extra in such pictures as
“40,000 Horsemen,” “Tall Timbers,”
“Sons of Matthew” and “Long John
Silver.”
• e
“John O”: My first meeting with
Bishop John Feetham (mentioned by
“Duke” Tritton) was at a north Queens-
land sugar-town as he stepped off the
local “sweeper.” Very English in those
days, I looked in vain for the episcopal
gaiters and top-hat, and the platform was
almost empty before I realised that the
craggy individual dressed in stained
khaki pants, open-necked shirt, and a
battered donkey’s - breakfast had a
peculiar singlet showing in the V of his
shirt. As he paused under a platform-
light 1 recognised the Roman-purple of the
episcopal stock, and introduced myself.
Elis archdeacon in that part of the world
later enlightened me: “You can always
spot the Bish. a mile off,” he explained.
“Looks like a bagman in a donkey’s-
breakt’ast and a red devil-proof.” Met
him many times after that, and found him
a practising Christian at all times. His
ashes lie in Townsville Cathedral.
o •
A link with the time when Australia
was known as New Holland has been
the arrival here of 28-year-old Abel
Tasman, of Utrecht (Holland), a
descendant of Abel Janszoon Tasman,
discoverer of the Speck. The visitor came
in a T.A.A. Fokker Friendship aircraft
which bears the name of his famous
ancestor (it’s the first of 12 on order by
T.A.A.). Tasman will cross the Tasman
to N.Z., where his family also has
associations.
• •
John Tierney, who has written so
many excellent short-stories for The
Bulletin under the pen-name “Brian
James,” got himself mixed-up in a motor-
accident at Easter, and a Sydney radio-
station, perhaps rightly putting him in
the category of Mark Twain, broadcast
a “greatly exaggerated” report of his
death. Inspected by The Bulletin at
his horrie at Beecroft, near Sydney,
Tierney looked well enough, except for
a considerable lump on his jaw ; and his
wife, who was also a passenger in the
car—they were on their way to a
wedding—is also reported to be doing
well, though still in hospital. It was a
nasty smash, with a truck involved in
it, and one of the car-passengers, an
elderly man, was killed. Tierney, when
The Bulletin dropped-in, was reading
the page-proofs of the anthology of Aus-
tralian short - stories for school- children
which he has edited for the Oxford
University Press.
Here sketched, Dr. Andrew Delbridge
Osborn, Fisher Librarian at Sydney Uni-
versity. He’s spent his life among books
—more than half of it in America.
Born in Melbourne 56 years ago,
educated at Wesley College and then at
the University of Melbourne and
America’s Columbia and Michigan, he
joined the staff of the Commonwealth
BOOKMAN
National Library in 1921. Back in the
U.S., he was appointed to the New York
Public Library in 1927, and eight years
later was given a grant by the American
Council of Learned Societies to visit
places connected with the work of
Edmund Husserl, about whose philosophy
he had already published a treatise.
He was acting-director of South Cali-
fornia Uni.’s school of library-science,
1936-37, and acting-assistant-professor of
library-science at the University of
Michigan, 1937-38 ; became chief of the
catalogue department at Harvard Uni.’s
library the next year, assistant-librarian
there in 1942, and in 1955 lecturer in
Australian and New Zealand history at
Harvard. In 1949-51 he had a spell with
the U.N. at Lake Success.
They have a nice little library at
Harvard —6i-million books! . . . more,
he says, than in all the libraries of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand put together.
• •
#
“Spooks”: David Brand, Premier in
Westralia’s newly - elected Government,
first entered Parliament in 1945 as mem-
ber for Greenough. He came in at a
by-election, was party-whip inside two
years and Minister for Works in the
second three-year period of the McLarty-
Watts Government. He conducted the
negotiations for the establishment of the
Kwinana oil-refinery and was also con-
nected with the “comprehensive water-
scheme.” Water is still the problem, par-
ticularly in the Darling Range districts,
so he may see the fulfilment of some of
his earlier work. With the 6th Division
in War 11, he was badly wounded in
Greece.
• •
Surprise visits have been paid to Perth
high - schools by Thomas Boydell,
formerly Minister for Labor in South
Africa. Born in England 78 years ago,
he went to South Africa when a boy and
has ever since been a whirlwind traveller,
known to his intimates as “Bounding
Tommy.” An even better pointer to him
is the remarkable variety of personal
friends he has had in many countries —
as a sampling, the Duke of Windsor,
Bernard Shaw and Billy Hughes! Now
making a three-months’ tour of Australia,
with the co-operation of State Education
Departments, he’s trying to give Aus-
tralians of all ages a more sympathetic
understanding of South Africa’s problems.
• •
R. T. Underwood, assistant-engineer of
the Victorian Country Roads Board, has
won the Sidney Myer Highway Traffic
Scholarship for 1959, entitling him to
nine months’ study in a traffic-engineering
course, which he’s due to begin at Yale
University (U.SA.) in September. He
graduated in civil engineering at Mel-
bourne University and has worked in
road-, highway- and traffic-engineering
since 1950.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 76, Noel Salmon, former secre-
tary of the Department of Education and first
registrar of the Conservatorjum of Music.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 74, Rev. Dr. V.
Geaney, S.M., former director of Bede’s R.C.
College, Christchurch. In 1929 be was
appointed rector at Greenmeadow Seminary in
Hawke’s Bay and after the 1931 earthquake
was responsible for the rebuilding of the
seminary.
In Adelaide, at 72, Rowland Bradshaw
Ridings, former Sturt District Cricketer and
S.A. Sheffield Shield and district umpire. He
was the father of Ken Ridings, who was also,
pre-war, a Shield cricketer, and Phil Ridings,
until recently S.A. skipper and formerly a Test
selector.
At Hamilton (N.Z.), Dame Hilda Ross, M.P.,
who before her election to Parliament (she held
Ministerial rank in the Holland Government)
had been Deputy Mayor of Hamilton. Born
in Whangarei, she was educated in Sydney and
Auckland, where she studied and taught music.
She was one of the two N.Z. representatives
at the British Commonwealth Parliamentary
Association in Barbadoes last year.
At 63, Jack Mahony, mine-host at the
Larrimah Hotel (where the railway from
Darwin ends in bush) and formerly one of the
best-known mounted-policemen in the North.
He had a close call when a spear hurtled
through his hat on Woodah Island in the
Gulf Country, when Constable McColl was
killed by natives in 1935, and he took part
in the round-up of Nemarluk, who had many
murders to his debit.
At Levin (N.Z.), at 84, Rawiri Pahiatea
Tatana, M.8.E., descendant of the famous
warrior-chief Te Rauparaha. He was a member
of the Maori contingent at the coronation of
King Edward VII in 1902.
In Brisbane, at 82, Andrew Arthur Henderson,
Consul for Bolivia in Australia, and a member
of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 72, Walter Miller,
holder of four professional world wrestling-
titles —lightweight, welterweight, middleweight
and light-heavyweight. Of 4000 bouts, it’s
claimed he lost only nine.


ABORIGINALITIES
SLEDGES FOR WEDGES
[From Dame Mary Gilmore]
Tn regard to my statement that only
mauls were used on wedges for split-
ting timber, I have just had a smashing
blow from a sledgehammer, and am
shown that one must not live in the past.
The writer (Mr. K. Blair) says: —
It’s sledges for wedges where the yakka
is heavy, mauls for light work like splitting
shingles and palings, or, where the axeman
is distant from blacksmith amenities,
to “dress" the “burrs” of his wedges. But
when a faller has to lift 80 tons of
mountain-ash sidehill. over the scarf,
instead of downhill, where it is trying to
plunge, a maul would be about as much
use to him as a lord mayor’s gavel to
drive his double-decked wedges.
I tremble to mention that in regard to
shingles, we split them in my time with
a throw. This was a horizontal, thick-
backed blade with an upright handle,
on which we used a mallet —or at least
I did ; men may have used a hammer.
"I resign."
I have to thank Mr. Blair and Mr.
Tritton for bringing me up to modern
times. But (may a woman have a last
word?) I think 1 can add a bit of history
unknown to most people today, and that
is that Mrs. Low, of Bronte House (a
little woman), as a recreation loved to
take maul and wedges and split logs at
the woodheap. Hearing this in about
1873, 1 wanted to do likewise ; so Father
gave me his little “entering”-wedges, and
taught me how to swing a maul so that
it carried its own weight in the air.
* * * *
“Fair Mac": “Duke” Tritton over-
looked just one point in his excellent
“Time Means Tucker” : how he came by
his nickname. The obvious would seem
that the name derived from his willing-
ness tO put Up his dooks at all times,
?F tb f ct tbatbe was a good man wdb
his dooks. Still, you never know with
"^"ames; sometimes they go way
Badk ', ln !” s P re days my brother
Bad 'o™nous go den curls. He is still
known as Curly, though his head would
™ ke .T” 1 Br >' nrlcr S look llke a
wuzzy s.
* * *
, . ~ , .
I abba : Pieter Nuyts ’is right when
he says those webs will carry spiders
lon21 on2 distances in stronn winds fR
ni-S tu L [ g 'l
11 / 3 / 59 )• They have been reported by
ships more than 500 miles out in the
Atlantic Ocean!
* * * ,
“The Irishman”: During 40 years,
hundreds of visitors have examined,
photographed and commented on a large
model of Cook’s Endeavour in the
State school, Cooktown. A New Aus-
tralian who had boned-up on Australian
history paused before the model and
contracted his brows in puzzlement:
“The history-book said that it was a
barque; this is a full-rigged ship! The
man who wrote the book mustn't know
one from another.” A copy of Cook’s
log, also at the school, showed that the
history-man was correct, and the model-
builders at fault. So now, is the portion
of the tree, reputed to be the one that
Cook tied-up to, and also at the school,
historical or fully-rigged ?
,
....
In World War I we carried a
shipload of brambles from India to
Mesopotamia. They were to be dumped
at various points along the Basra-
Baghdad railway to induce firewood-
starved Arabs, who silently steal in the
night, to stop stealing railway-sleepers.
* * * *
“Ex-ACT”: Falling prices for whale-oil
have made whaling difficult at Norfolk
Island and at Byron Bay (N.S.W.),
where the whaling-stations had each an
annual quota of 120 whales. It has been
announced that both stations will be
allowed an additional 30 whales for the
1959 season. Quotas for the five Austra-
lian land-based stations will be 2020. All
whaling interests are awaiting with some
anxiety the outcome of talks in London
in June on the future of the International
Whaling Agreement.
* * * *
“Narumee”: If I hadn’t noticed the fat
pigs in the backyards, fatter geese in
the paddocks, and the acres of potato-
haulms, to say nothing of the two
“Shamrock" hotels, I’d have been in no
doubt as to the nationality of
the villagers after my request
to Mrs. Country-cafe for plenty
of mustard on the ham sand-
wiches. She dolloped it on with
a generous hand, remarking:
“Ah, sure, ’tis good to be fond
of what you like, or there'd be
no pleasure in having it at all!”
* * *
“Leo's": Called at a friend's
home just as a summer storm
broke, ran up the path through
the heavy rain, and was sur-
prised to see her dash for the
garage, ignoring my shout.
Backing-out their large, luxuri-
ous sedan, she drove into an
adjoining paddock, parking well
away from the trees. “That rain
arrived just in time,” she
explained. “We’re off to the picnic-races
tomorrow and the car was dirty. A rub
over the windows and chromework in
the morning and it’ll look like new."
* * * *
“Woomera-ite”: Interested to read that
the Department of the Interior allocates
free shrubs and trees in Canberra (B.
11/3/’59). The same thing happens in
Woomera—or did when we were there
several years ago. All householders there
were asked to obtain and plant native
trees and shrubs from the district
nursery, where thousands of tins (jam
and otherwise), pots, etc., housed them.
As well, the department had planted


* v/
you kNou), i <tamV u/Mpee.sTAfsip
Why P&opLe. ujanT to go to ths
v
CjOLQ COAST WH£M THE/ CAM Go To TH£ CROSS ANy Ot-P TWE.
Wsu , Kti T RfALLy , t cam N 6VER. RMO A PIACe "TO RRJC TH £ CAR. /


native trees, pepper-trees, Australian
myrtle, sheoaks, etc., along all streets.
While these were young, and particularly
through the summer, the watercarts kept
them alive. The water was poured into
two earthenware pipes on each side of
the tree, gradually seeping out to keep
the roots moist. The idea was the estab-
lishment of a greenbelt around Woomera
to improve the climate, keep down the
dust, and attract rainfall. Householders
were glad to co-operate ; green is precious
among the gibbers and saltbush. The
water comes in the pipeline from Man-
num, over 300 miles away. Do you
wonder that Premier Playford fights for
his State’s share of Murray water?
* * * *
“Fairf”: “Kelms” errs in his claim
that black swans and white would fight
to the death if liberated on the same
stretch of water (B. 18/3/’59). For years
both varieties inhabited the upper reaches
of the Parramatta River (N.S.W.). Not
only did the native and imported swans
endure one another’s presence, but one-
from each species formed what, in
humans, would be called an attachment.
They were always together and seemed
to have that tell-tale human desire to
get away from the rest of the crowd. I
had hopes of seeing a little black-and-
white family to further embellish the
beautiful picture, but the vision never
became reality. Perhaps it’s a genetic
impossibility.
* * * *
“Spin”: You can learn a lot about a
bird’s habits from its feet. A duck, which
spends part of its time on land and is
often a mighty good walker, has three
toes webbed and the fourth free; a
cormorant, which spends practically all
its time in the water or on a post, has
all four toes webbed. The grebe has
three toes lobed, giving it good propul-
sion apd the ability to form a cup with
which to hurl water at an enemy. Perch-
ing birds have suitably-shaped feet, and
in tree - creepers the hind toe is very
pronounced—it is absent in ground-birds
like the emu and stone-plover (curlew).
Owls, besides having the fourth toe at
the rear, can turn one of the other toes
back when they want to —no "doubt as
an aid to grasping or carrying a prey.
Parrots have two toes forward and two
back, and must find this handy when
holding gum-nuts.
* * * *
TTad two pet goannas when I lived in
the jungle near Kuranda (N.Q.). At
mealtime they’d come out of the under-
growth, where they always lurked, and
clean-up the after-dinner plates ; if we
were tardy in calling ’em, they’d come
into the house and slide around the lino.
One, a small 4ft. specimen, answered to
“Goldie”; the other, a six-footer, we
named “Spotty.” A much - wrinkled
veteran, all of 7ft., who lurked in the
nearby lantana and wasn’t quite able to
summon enough courage to approach too
close, we called “Granddad.” Needless
to say we did not keep poultry.—“Gip.”
HThought the Tin Can Bay (Q.) fisher-
man was having me on when he said
casually: “There’s a few bugs among the
mullet. Hope you like ’em.” The flapjack-
like object is tagged by naturalists as
Ibacus peronii, the Balmain-bug, and he
is related to the spring-lobster. They
often come up during prawning, and the
fleshy tail makes good eating.—“Lie-
wahlo.”
* * * *
“Durian”: Most Californian bluegums
(B. 25/2/’59) derive from forestry-
flotations which —about 1870, and with
“Keep the ladder! All I need are
a couple of suction-cups and a
bald head”
Australian master-minding recruited
shareholders with that investor-rousing
shibboleth, “A world shortage of timber
is imminent.” In 1930 the Pacific
Lumber Co., a Californian-redwood firm,
called me in to advise on the conversion
of a quarter-section of 60-year-old
Eucalyptus globulus. Because I was Aus-
tralian, the manager was politely reluct-
ant to outline the story which in Sonoma
County had long been told uncompli-
mentarily about Aussies and their
forestry - flotations, whose dividends
proved to be only in the imagination of
the persuasive promoters.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Two sou’-Westralian birds
I’ve noticed with characteristic and simi-
lar methods of getting into and out of
trees are the raven and the grey butcher-
bird. Studying a raven’s nest through
binoculars I’ve marvelled at the ease with
which it leaves a tree when an intruder
approaches. It slips off the nest, moves
down the branch to the trunk and down
the trunk on the side of the tree opposite
to the direction from which the danger
threatens. The movement could be
described as a flow or a trickle rather
than flight—the bird melts through and
down the tree, deceptively fast, no doubt
because near the trunk there are fewer
branches and no twigs to get in its way.
The butcher-bird uses this same alley-
way to get up a tree. Almost any other
bird flying into a tree seeks entry through
the branches at the level at which it
wants to alight, and if it enters in a
hurry with a marauder on its tail it can
get quite a buffeting going through the
leaves and twigs. The butcher-bird comes
in low and fast, heads straight for the
trunk below the lowest branch, and skims
up without slackening speed or ruffling
a feather.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: The Administration
of Papua-New Guinea has hopefully
announced that the fisheries - research
vessel Tagula has demonstrated a success-
ful method of commercial fishing in Coral
Sea waters, adding that both European
and native people should now develop
fishing - enterprises to meet local needs.
Adequate fish-supplies, it says, wiil help
to remedy protein-deficiencies in native
diets. Next step is to find the fishermen.
PORTRAIT OF A PONY
I wonder where you’re straying now, grey
Morny? —
riderless, unsaddled, strong and free.
Are trees green there (as ours) all the
year through?
Do creeks gush over stones, as when we
two
forded the Teviot’s shallows, and you
drank,
lifted your head, gazing above the bank
as though you sensed a call
I could not catch at all?
Sometimes when the last spire across the
city
turns to lilac or a burnished green,
1 think of you. I hear the leather creak-
ing ;
bit and stirrup clink then, and you lean
and whinny towards me through the
fading glow
as you did years ago.
Pictured in the morning, with your coat
polished and gleaming, foil to all the
leather
darkened by sun and wind and stormy
weather,
your image baffles time . . . How could
you know
1 planned it so?
Morny, have you sight and memory?
In those eternal pastures do you yearn
back in dreams to earth, and quickly turn,
and lope towards some gate, and call
to me?
Q.
E. M. ENGLAND.


The self-produced froth in which the
praying-mantis lays its eggs forms a
powerful adhesive. I watched one at
work on a car-wheel. The tail-piece
moved rhythmically from side to side
exuding foam, and with each sweep
deposited a row of eggs in the yeasty-
looking mass. An hour later the mantis
had gone, but its egg-case —now the shape
of a Brazil-nut, but half the size—was
so firmly attached to the wheel that when
I picked it off a sizeable flake of duco
came with it.—“ Nimrod.”
* * * *
. “Bass”: It’s odd how some W.A. coun-
try with a rainfall that wouldn’t yield
a decent wheat-crop, once in 10 years
can produce heavy stands of timber.
They’re not forests, but inestimable
quantities of timber have been taken into
Kalgoorlie over the last 60 years, all
from the woodlines within easy distance
of the mines, and all from arid country.
The limber in the country south of
Southern Cross isn’t as heavy as seen
further inland, but it’s so thick you can’t
push your way through it. In that locality
a few years ago, when a search was on
for another missing airman, I heard an
old prospector giving his views on how
to find the body. “Put a fire through,”
he said, “and then follow it. You’ll
never find him any other way.” Far as
1 know they haven’t, either.
* * * *
“P.C.M.”: The Koowcerup Swamp, in
Gippsland (Vic.), was once reputed to
be the original home of the bunyip—
the township of Bunyip, on the edge of
it, commemorates the legend. When the
swamp was being drained about the turn
of the century, and there was much
speculation locally as to whether the
bunyips would live in the drains or die-
out, two hard-doers went to a fancy-
dress ball in the township in one of the
first motor-cars seen in the district. In
the early hours of the morning a sozzled
wanderer was making his way home
when he heard a trumpet-blast behind
him. He turned and stood speechless
with horror as a buggy with no horses
pulling it bore down on him. Father
Christmas and the Devil himself were
in the front seat! “It’s all right, mate,
don't be afraid,” said Santa. “I’d finished
my round and was having a sleep and
someone unharnessed my reindeer and
let them go —so I sent word to Old Nick
here, and he brought me along a couple
of his pet bunyips out of the swamp.
They’re invisible, you know, but they’re
pretty fast! Giddup!” he yelled, and
belted an imaginary steed with his
trumpet. The car jerked forward ; and
the night-porter at the Warragul railway-
yards alleged that a bloke on foot was
-still doing above 20 m.p.h. when he
passed through there a bit later.
* * * *
“Sebak”: No need to be ambidextrous
to shovel opposite a right-handed man
when loading a vehicle from the same
side (B. 4/3/’59). Certainly it is easier
for a right-hander to swing the shovel
up and over his right shoulder, but when
forced to face the opposite direction it
is not hard to bring the banjo across
the body and load a little in front of the
left shoulder: , I’ve done my share of
boodling that way, but if I had to change
my hand-grip to southpaw—well, maybe
some of the dirt would finish-up in the
vehicle ; the rest would probably blind
either me or my mate. And about that
“bury the maker’s name" business I
once saw a bet laid as to whether a man
using a No. 3 spoon could load a dray
as quickly as another burying the
maker’s name on a huge No. 7. The
bloke wielding the little shovel won by
minutes ; he seemed to have an endless
stream of dirt flying through the air in
a perfect demonstration of speed’s
supremacy over slow bulk.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: While magpies, peewees,
willie-wagtails, butcher-birds and restless-
flycatchers exemplify the saying, “It’s not
the size of the dog in the fight, but the
size of the fight in the dog that counts,”
other wearers of the black - and - white
“ Abstract ?”
livery are more peaceable. The Queens-
land white-eared-flycatcher, though a
noisy busybody, is not especially aggres-
sive, nor are his pied and frill-necked
relatives. Pied- or magpie-geese seem to
keep their squabbles in the family. The
friendly hooded-robin is a model citizen,
and the black and pied honeyeaters of
the inland mostly mind their own
business. The varied-triller is the shy
member of his family, and so is the
black-and-white wren of W.A.
* * * *
npo the cheering assurance of “Phil
J- Anthus” (B. 4/3/’59). on the sur-
vival of rare parrots, add a word of
thanksgiving for the abundant company
of this family all around us.
A recent early-morning run front
Wagga to Finley (N.S.W.) was something
that birdmen in other lands only dream
about. Fluttering up from the roadside
were flocks of red-backs, those little
grass-parrots as common hereabouts as
the grass itself, but the vermilion of whose
rumps (male only) is one of the bonniest
colors in birdland. Galahs flung them-
selves about in aerobatics surely designed
to allow the low sun to light the under-
wings in a display unique to that abused
and abusive bird ; while white-cockatoos,
kings of the clan, screeched invective
from dead trees above the fallow. Odd
pairs of the common rosella dipped across
the road (who said common means
drab?), while from the redgums his
yellow cousin reminded you, if neces-
sary, that you weren't far' from the
’Bidgee.
A flash of pea-green on the right, and
we drop speed to around 40, the better
to keep abreast of half-a-dozen green-
leeks, aptly named also superb-parrots,
undulating over the grass ; then a shrill,
urgent note overhead locates a flock of
little lorikeets diving towards a flowering
gum. Some bare branches leaning high
over the bitumen look thicker than the
rest, and as you approach they disinte-
grate and the quarrion flutter down into
the paddocks, their softer colors match-
ing the gentler voices of this dainty mem-
ber of the family.
Then up from the roadside there is a
flurry, and in the low, hot sun each
budgie is a twinkling green light. You
can have all the delicate shades intro-
duced by fancy breeding into birds be-
hind bars —no budgerigar is more
beautiful than the wild, natural green.
If I had time I wouldn't have far to
go to find ringnecks and blue-bonnets,
maybe some different lorikeets, perhaps
black-cockatoos ; all of which reminds
that any youngster going to and from
school on the edge of the plains has a
good chance of seeing more kinds of
parrots in a day than people in other
continents would see in a lifetime.
WIPPEGONG.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. URQUHART, M. D. PASSMORE, K. W. A. BRIDGES
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
{lncorporating Headlam, Hewson & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
{Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BL> 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange,
Orange 4034
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP/* Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Markets and Trends
"liyiTH the general buoyancy
of overseas capital-inflow
under it, assisted by the invest-
ments of unit-trusts, superan-
nuation funds and (probably at
a lessening rate) life-offices,
Australian sharemarkets are
holding-up strongly in the
variable economic winds now
blowing.
There has been some im-
provement in wool prices, a
steadying in most metals, and
meat and sugar are selling well.
But nothing is happening in
these connections which would
justify exuberance in the
sharemarket, or the acceptance
of the miserable yields now
offering from front-rank equity
shares.
Blue chips, as a class, at
present probably represent the
greatest danger to the investor
who is taking the prevailing
market at its face-value. The
finances of the company repre-
sented by the blue chip may
be as sound as one could hope
for ; but everything has a top
price—even a blue chip—and
today many of these seem to
be overpriced in relation to
what is flowing from them in
the way of dividends. They
may pay-off in the bye-and-bye,
but can the investor wait (Or
live) that long?
Industry itself is virile
enough, but variable in its
fortunes. Good news was the
recovery in the earnings of
Email and the lift in the
dividend from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c.
The new management deserves
congratulation on its achieve-
ment in view of the difficulties
known to be besetting the
electrical industry. But in other
companies there have been
reverses and missed dividends.
A major blow has been the
omission of Masonite’s dividend
again, and the news that it is
still having a battle to get its
new plant at Eildon working
efficiently. In this case the
financial problem stems wholly
from a production problem,
and it is not symptomatic of
the trade in building-board
generally.
. th f < he warn > n «
£ heeded the , mv , es ‘ or , *
the present time is to take full
note F of yidds
from an invest-
both from dividends and
j n relation to earning-power.
It j s dangerous to follow a
market up simply because it
; s going up _ Incidentally,
B.H.P.’s div., declared last
week, was at the unchanged
rate of 8| p.c. This company
has an immense construction
“This month's sales show a marked uplift, boss!"
programme in front of it, and,
in spite of its great investment
atractions, it is essentially a
stock for those prepared to wait
years for real income benefits.
Masonite’s “Dry Process”
CTnce it ventured into the
“dry process” of making
hardboard with two smooth
sides at its new plant at Eildon
(Vic.), Masonite Holdings’
operations have been a dry
process for shareholders. And
there is no smooth side to the
story yet in sight.
Reason for adopting the dry
process was that the authorities
would not stand for pollution of
the river by the better-known
wet-process in the Eildon
Weir region, and, using North
American softwoods, the dry
process had apparently been
successful in the U.S. and
Canada. Whether our euca-
lypt hardwood pulp is respon-
sible for the tendency of
some of the Eildon production
to “craze” in changing climatic
conditions isn’t certain; the
fact remains that unstable
features in the early production
from Eildon have not been
fully overcome, and the rate
of stable, marketable output
has been reduced to an un-
profitable level.
Serious losses at Eildon con-
tinued during the half-year to
December 31. Profits from the
old-established “wet-process”
plant at Raymond Terrace
(N.S.W.) and from subsidiaries
have been well maintained,
and, overall, a small profit
was shown for the six months.
But no interim dividend has
been declared. In the preced-
ing term, when a heavy loss
on initial Eildon operations ate
into earnings during the second
half of the term, no final div.
was paid, the interim of 5 p.c.
being the only distribution for
the year, compared with 10
p.c. in the preceding year.
Whatever the “bugs” still to
be eradicated in the plant
(experts from America have
been brought to Eildon, and
the help of the C.5.1.R.0. has
been availed of), on the
financial side Masonite has
cut its losses as they have
occured, and it hasn’t charged
them to capital account.
Which means that, after all,
there may be two smooth sides
to the story just as soon as
the technical side is under
control. An unfortunate com-
plication is that never on the
selling side has competition
been tougher than at present.
Following release of the
interim “no div.” report,
Masonite 10s. shares, which in
January were up to 18s. 9d.
sank to 11s. 3d.
In view of the high profit-
earning and capital-value of the
Raymond Terrace division,
and the prospect that the
Eildon problem could be
“solved”, in an extreme case,
by drastic financial action if
technical efforts failed, the
shares at 11s. 3d. have a
definite speculative appeal. In
1956-57 Raymond Terrace
alone showed the co. a profit of
11 p.c. on its present capital,
and that was after the usual
£50,000 provision for plant-
replacement, high depreciation
allowance and adequate pro-
vision for taxation.
No Comfort in Old-age!
"pOLLOWiNG the attempt by a
group of shareholders in
Huddart Parker to force the
directors to reverse a policy of
increased investment in ship-
ping and coal, various
members of the Parker family
being to the fore in the agita-
tion, it was announced in Mel-
bourne last week that a com-
pany (unnamed) had made an
allegedly nebulous offer to
acquire the shares of Huddart
Parker, Ltd. The H.P. board
considered the conditions
attached to the offer to be too
indefinite, and is not disclosing
the name of the would-be
takeover-company or the terms
outlined. It requires a firm
offer, it says, before it will
consider the matter seriously.
It was then stated elsewhere
that the co. making the offer
is Sir Arthur Warner’s big
Electronic Industries, Ltd., and
that the terms offered were
three Electronic Industries B
shares (now at 295. each in the
market) or 765. 6d. in cash. On
last book-values there were net
tangibles of 106 s. behind each


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, R. A. McINNES, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building:,
2D7 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887VV
MOTIVATION RESEARCH
Ask yourself:
How can I increase my Sales and goodwill without increas-
ing expenditure?
How can I ensure that my business returns me the maximum
profit on my investment?
Am I neglecting any of the basic psychological motives which
trigger buying impulses?
What ARE the hidden influences which persuade people
to buy my products?
How can I take advantage of such facts in promoting my
product?
These are but a few of the valuable facts which quantified
Motivation Research may reveal to you.
Let us send a Senior Executive to discuss Market Research
and Promotion with you. Open up the way to increased sales and
profits through a positive workable program.
Market & Consumer Research Pty. Ltd.
Researches conducted in all States and New Zealand.
Latest U.S.A. and European Techniques.
DIRECTOR: STUART LUCY.
HEAD OFFICE: 52 Carrington Street, Sydney. ’Phone: BX 3204.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.*
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington. N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; £ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
H.P. ord., and as these in-
cluded many Stock Exchange
investments, including A.W.A.
shares (carrying with them
chairmanship of the A.W.A.
board), the valuation has been
generally regarded as conserva-
tive.
Sir Arthur Warner has had
Ministerial experience in
transport, and he may pos-
sibly be interested in this
aspect of H.P., including its
new “container” freighting
arrangements, as well as in
its investments (including
A.W.A.). In any case, H.P. is
another case where extensive
“plough-back” and build-up of
inner strength in the past,
which might have been ex-
pected to bring comfort to a
board in its old age, have had
the effect, instead, of attracting
enterprising outsiders aiming
to utilise those assets more
effectively and to cash-in on
inner reserves.
It has been contended on
these pages in other connec-
tions that an excessive plough-
back of profits, or an accu-
mulation of inner strength not
visible to the sharemarket
generally, both of which result
in the undervaluation of a
share in the market, in the
end are liable to attract the
attention of a takeover com-
pany, which aims, of course,
to make a bargain even if it
offers well above the previous
market price.
Huddart Parker ords. lifted
from this year’s “low” of
535. 9d. to 725. before the take-
over announcement.
F. W. Hughes Industries
An unusual (and commend-
able) aspect of the G. H.
Michell proposal to take-over
71 p.c. Of the shares in F. W.
Hughes Industries from two
major shareholders is that the
price per ss. share has been
disclosed (3s. payable in
cash over two years), and the.
projected offer for the minority
(29 p.c.) holdings will be at
a higher rate —3s. 9d. a share.
F. W. Hughes Industries,
Ltd., has a paid capital of
£3,112,000 in ss. ord. shares.
G. H. Michell and Sons, Ltd.,
has large grazing, woolscouring
and topmaking interests in
S.A., W.A. and Victoria. F. W.
Hughes has similar interests,
plus fellmongering, knitting-
wool, textile and meat-canning
and -distributing offshoots,
mostly in N.S.W., but with
some sections in Victoria.
The F. W. Hughes empire,
built-up by a tough, “close” and
lonely man, has brought noth-
ing spectacular to its owners
since the old man’s death. It has
been a drab Stock Exchange
listing, mediocre in perform-
ance and rarely reaching' par
since public investors put up
their share of the chips back
in the days (October, 1951) of
the post-war wool boom.
There was a return of capital
in June, 1956 —ss. per £1 share,
after which the scrip was split
into ss. units.
The Michell takeover scheme
has possibilities. If completed,
it will spread the seasonal risk
over a wide area of Australia,
and the manufacturing sides
should “marry” fairly well.
If G. H. Michell exercises
its option (by June 10), over
the 71 p.c. major shareholdings,
it will then negotiate with the
remaining shareholders.
R. B. Davies Industries
As was suggested in B.
25/3/59 the purpose of R.
B. Davies, Industries, Ltd.,
in selling its profitable holding
in Yorkshire Fittings (Aust.)
was to make some particular
use of the money raised. It
has been announced that
R.B.D. will now repay its 7 p.c.
registered unsecured notes —
£200,000 of them due for
repayment in 1961-62, but with
an option of prior repayment
reserved to the company. The
money was raised in 1956
during a period of bank-credit
restriction.
Sale of the holding in York-
shire at 375. 6d. a share will
bring in £275,625, of which
£50,000 is earmarked for re-
purchase of the freehold sold
to Yorkshire when it set-up
business. All the reasons
prompting the R.B.D. move
have not been explained, but
it was clear from the last report
of the co. that its interest in
Yorkshire would become a
diminishing proportion, as for
some reason not explained it
was not taking-up its rights to
a new issue from this co., which
has introduced to Australia a
method of joining copper and
brass pipes by solder instead of
threaded joints.
T rade-promotion
[From Canberra]
'T'rade Department officials
are beginning to wish they
had never heard of the Mini-
sterial head, Jack McEwen, or
departmental chief, Sir John
Crawford.
Not because they don’t like
them or respect their capa-
bilities, but under these two
human dynamos, work is
piling up so fast in the depart-
ment that senior officials are
wondering just how they can
cope with it.
Right on the heels of settling
two big trade-agreements—
the Australian-Japanese Agree-
ment and the revised Australia-
U.K. Agreement tra d e
officials will be swamped in the
next couple of weeks with no
fewer than three visting trade-
missions.
The most important of these
has been the Canadian mission,
which will negotiate a com-
pletely new agreement to
replace the 31-year-old existing
pact.
Hot after them is a
group from Maoriland, seek-
ing to sell more to Australia
to even the balance of trade
between the two countries.
The pace is being set by a
mission from Nationalist China
aiming to step-up purchases
of Australian goods in
Formosa.
All this is part of an organ-
ised drive by McEwen and
Crawford to lift Australia’s
trade out of the doldrums and
to lessen dependence on wool.


t lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
truly British Institution closely integrated with
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
RALPH W. KING W. KEITH YUILL K. C. PHILLIPS
lAN C. WALTON GORDON G. KING
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BL 5771-2-3
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking" Sydney
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
Australian Greasy-wool "Futures"
[By CLIVE HALL]
TJefore attempting to explain
either the possible frame-
work of an Australian greasy-
wool “futures” market, or the
practical use of such a market,
1 think it is essential that wool-
growers have a clear under-
standing of how wool is
bought, because without this
they will find it very difficult
to understand a greasy-wool
futures market.
Greasy wool, as we all know,
comes in many forms, styles,
types, lengths and, particularly,
yields. Obviously red, dusty
wool from South Australia or
the far west of N.S.W. will not
give as high a yield as wool
from the New England district,
which is free of dust, vegetable
fault, etc. Your western wools
may yield perhaps as low as
around 50 p.c., whereas some
good New England free wools
would be yielding 70 p.c. of
clean wool.
“Clean Wool” Basis
Now, that is the important
point: dean wool. The manu-
facturer, either local or over-
seas, who is buying a 64’s wool
(say an average spinner’s best
topmakers), is buying that on
a clean limit. He knows that
different wools will give
different yields here in Aus-
tralia and the price he will pay
is based on what the wool is
worth to him in its clean state,
with all grease, burr and
vegetabJe-m«tter removed.
Therefore, it follows that,if
a manufacturer is willing to
pay IOOd. per lb. clean for
64’5,w001, average spinners and
best topmakers, his represen-
tative buying for him here in
Australia will seek out those
types of wool and assess the
yield when he comes across
them in the brokers’ catalogues.
So that if the buyer assesses the
yield of the wool which he is
handling in the broker’s store
as 60 p.c., that means that in
his opinion, based on many
years’ experience, when that
wool is washed or scoured it
will lose 40 p.c. of grease and
vegetable-matter and there will
be remaining 60 p.c. of clean
wool ready for the manufac-
turers’ machines.
“Greasy” and “Clean”
His greasy price for such
wool is then 60 p.c. of his clean
limit— i.e., 60d. greasy. If he
thinks it might do 62 p.c. yield,
his price is obviously 62 p.c.
of IOOd. clean — i.e., 62d. per
lb. greasy.
Having got that point clearly
in his mind the woolgrower
then is able to follow the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau quota-
tions, which are published in
the local press and in pastoral
papers each week. The Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau takes the
average price for the week for
all centres which are selling
that week in Australia and
quotes the different qualities in
Australian pence per lb. clean.
It is important here to note
that the Australian Wool
Bureau figure is the average
for Australia for the week, and
whilst at times the closing
market-quotations on Thurs-
day might be very high, the
Wool Bureau figure next day
would not necessarily be as
high as that because it is stiff
the average for the week.
The Wool Bureau’s average
enables a grower who has a
knowledge of the yield of his
fleece-wool to assess what that
fleece-wool is worth in the
grease each week.
“Good” and “Average”
Should a grower not know
his yield, his selling-broker can
always supply the necessary
information and at the same
time tell him whether his wool
is good style or average style,
for the Wool Bureau quote
both good- and average-style
wools. For example, let us
take a grower with, a clip of
average-64’s-style wool with an
estimated yield on his fleece
wool of 6CX p.c., and the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau quote for
the week for 64’s average is
95d. per lb. clean. His greasy
estimate of value would then
be 60 p.c. of 95d., or 57d. per
lb. greasy.
So far, so good. Now let us
take a look at the facilities
which are available to him at
present for insuring his clip
against a fall in values —that
is, the London futures market.
London Market Remote
It has been suggested in some
quarters that the grower could
make more use of the London
Wool Futures Market, which is
the only one on which he is
permitted to operate from Aus-
tralia. This, I think, is most
unlikely for a number of
reasons which I shall endeavor
to explain, as 1 have been per-
sonally trying to interest the
woolgrower in using the
London Wool Futures Market
for the past six years.
Firstly, when a woolgrower
seeks information about the
London market he normally
approaches either his bank or
his selling-broker, neither of
whom have a great deal of
knowledge about it, largely
because there is no commodity-
trading in futures of any sort
in Australia, which means that
such people have not found it
necessary to have any interest
in futures dealings or to learn
how such markets operate.
Secondly, the market is in
London and is operating when
we here in Australia are asleep,
which obviously means that we
learn next day through Reuters
or at the end of the week in
one of the country newspapers
what has happened on the
London market. It is very
remote, and because of this it
does not come to the grower’s
notice.
Thirdly, the market is based
on wool-tops, about which the
average grower has little or no
knowledge. With greasy wool
he certainly knows where he
stands, but with wool-tops,
which are a form of semi-
processed wool ready to com-
mence the spinning operations,
he has probably never seen
them or has any idea what they
look like.
Fourthly, the market is
quoted in pence (stg.) per
pound, which again presents a
difficulty, especially when some
growers try to convert these
quotations into Australian
pence and relate them to
quotations in Australia.
Lastly, the grower has to be
advised, should he have got so
far in his endeavor to find out
about futures to protect him-
self against a fall in values and
decided to insure his clip by
selling futures, that should the
market rise in London he will
be called upon to put up
margin— i.e., to pay into the
market money representing the
daily increases in price above
the price at which he sold.
If he has sold, say, at 95d. and
the market rises to 100 d., the
position is that it will cost him
sd. more to buy back those
contracts, and that money in
all cases is paid into the market
daily by the floor-members;
we in turn remit it from
Australia.
Advantages in Australia
When he does pay that
money, which of course has to
be remitted from Australia
with the authority of Exchange
Control, the money is lying
in London and is subject to
whatever risk there is in the
way of an alteration in the rate
of exchange between Australia
and England. By this time it
is a very strongminded grower
indeed who decides to carry on
with the transaction.
1 think it would take many,
many years to explain these
difficulties to woolgrowers and
to get them to understand the
use of the London market,
whereas with a futures market
established here in Australia in
greasy wool and with a bale of
the standard type available for
him to inspect and quotations
published daily in the press and
on the radio he would take a
much greater interest. Further-
more, he would be in a posi-
tion either to buy or sell
futures as he sees fit. I men-
tion this, for on the London
market he is not permitted at
the present time to buy futures
as his initial transaction
because Exchange Control
regard that as speculation in
sterling currency.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Between
Ourselves
\ VSo
\V
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
London Airmai.
From Herbert Holman
TUNglish families are
' notoriously conservative
in their housing tastes. Un-
usual houses, so often to be
noticed in Australia or on the
Continent, are a rarity, and it
is known that a large resettle-
ment scheme ran into trouble
over its modern and carefully
thought-out designs.
The new houses had a sjngle,
comparatively large living-
room with a dining-annexe,
but the prospective occupants,
from terraced - houses in
London’s East End, insisted
on having the tiny, over-
crowded parlor and dining-
room they had always been
accustomed to.
It is clear from the model
houses at the “Daily Mail”
Ideal Home Exhibition at
Olympia that this prejudice is
breaking down. The tendency
now is to aim for the maximum
of luxury and convenience
inside, to ensure that the
plumbing (never a strong
point of English housing) is
frost-proof, but otherwise to
make do with an unpretentious
exterior. And the single or
sliding-partitioned living-room
promises to become standard
for the smaller house.
Another modern tendency is
to live a long way from your
work if you are middle-aged,
but to live near if you are
newly-wed—this is because so
many women continue in em-
ployment after marriage.
Australia House steals most
of the limelight in the Inter-
national Section of the Exhi-
bition with a prodigious dis-
play of its products in an
arcade which is claimed to be
“a modern frontier township
from ‘Down-Under’ ” and
which is called “A Town Like
Alice.” One doesn't need to
have ventured far into the
interior (even as far as the
Penrith, N.S.W., of the present
writer) to know that the licence
taken is extensive and that the
name of Shute is more familiar
than that of Todd, but the
public-relations men have
certainly been enterprising in
rounding-up six out of the
eight surviving grandchildren
of Lady Alice.
The “shops” are staffed by
some 80 Australian girls whose
engaging naturalness is im-
mensely refreshing after the
slightly tired patter of the pro-
fessional demonstrators else-
where.
Instrumental Rebellion
By tradition, orchestral
musicians are denied access to
the conductor, except through
their leader, but they have
never lacked resource in im-
provising techniques to express
their absence of respect. The
ultimate in contempt is to dis-
regard entirely the conductor's
baton, as happened during the
last war in a Services orchestra
of distinguished instru-
mentalists who felt they were
being exploited.
A recent gesture of the Lon-
don Philharmonic is at a far
remove from this. Signalled by
Constantin Silvestri to take a
bow, the Phil, remain seated.
They insisted “that their part
in the triumph was small and
that all the glory should be
the conductor’s.” No gesture
could seem less like rebellion
than this. Yet rebellion, though
genteel and subtle, it was.
An orchestral musician, in
a letter to “The Observer,”
has indicated why. It seems
that Mr. Silvestri is considered
by the Phil, players to be, in
all respects, an exemplary
conductor and that this way
of showing public respect was
spontaneous. Unique, warm-
hearted and quite unmalicious,
it nevertheless casts a chill
reflection on other conductors
whose batons, affirms the
correspondent, are “the easiest
of all instruments to get away
with.”
Equally positive is the action
of members of the Liverpool
Philharmonic who, conducted
by Mr. Spiegl, their principal
flautest, have brought joy and
freshness to music-making by
their eighteenth - century
approach. Their aim is to play
music for entertainment or
diversion and to dispel the
stuffiness, the “almost religious
atmosphere,” of the concert-
hall.
Mr. Spiegl enjoys playing in
an orchestra and has no desire
to be anything but a spare-
time conductor. He thinks that
the professional conductor is
overrated and believes an
interesting and vital point—
that understanding of the
classical masters is incomplete
without knowledge of the
lesser composers who in-
fluenced them. And he con-
siders that his recreative
approach is good for both
performers and audience be-
cause it relaxes them and
relieves musical staleness.
Surprisingly, the first of
these unconventional soirees
was given as long ago as 1949.
Since then Gerard Hoffnung
has enlarged the idea to Wag
nerian proportions and similar
organised frolics have taken
place in America and Australia.
But these extravagances are in
the nature of ebullient reaction
to concert-giving, not another
side to it. Audiences generally
take their music seriously—
too seriously, perhaps. The
man who recently was demon-
strably shushed for chuckling
audibly in the Royal Festival
Hall at the wit of a Rossini
overture was unfortunately in
a minority of one.
Very Sharp Practice
An intellectual firebrand who
hates women but is “fearfully
attracted” by them is seeking
a divorce from his wife, an
actress. By way of self-
expression, he writes a play on
a “triangle” theme in which
the former husband comes
back to torment and to sub-
jugate first his successor and
then his late wife. This man
of mischief is not only identi-
fiable with the author but also
unmistakeably suggests wish-
fulfilment. The author then
sends the play to his estranged
wife, suggesting that she might
like the part!
The situation is as fantastic
as the marital relationships are
complicated, but, however far-
fetched, it is not fiction. The
real-life man and wife were
August Strindberg and Siri von
Essen. And the play was
“Creditors,” which, rarely pre-
viously performed in England,
is the second venture of the 59
Theatre Company at the Lyric,
Hammersmith.
No pains have been spared
in bringing high finish and
first-class quality to this pro-
duction, and it is noticeable
that, while the producer
(Caspar Wrede) and the
designer (Malcolm Pride) are
of the company, the three
actors, all of them distinguish-
ed, are from outside. They
have been well chosen. Lyndon
Brook, as Adolf, the pitiable
and easily-led cripple, catches
no more sympathy than is his
due and finely conveys the
anxiety, inferiority and choked
rebelliousness of an unworldly
man used for her own con-
venience by a personable but
unscrupulous woman. Michael
Gough’s Gustav is similarly
free from histrionic or melo-
dramatic artifice, but looser-
knit ; especially powerful is the
neurotic impetus which under-
lines his compulsive revenge.
Mai Zetterling is newborn as
the hateful Tekla. She has lost
her mannerisms and brings a
double force to the character—
a Scandinavian other-worldli-
ness and the synthetic charm of
a selfish go-getter.
Much of the dialogue is
ordinary, although Strindberg
must have been as deliberately
shocking as Tennessee Williams
is today. His dramaturgy is
not very subtle, but also is not
as flagrant as that of Ibsen,
whom he disliked. Strindberg
believed that life, as experi-
enced by man and woman, was
a perpetual and ever-consum-
ing struggle for power and that
woman was the inevitable
victor because more unscru-
pulous. The two men who were
Tekla’s “creditors” are unable
to escape this struggle except
by death, as with Adolf, but
Strindberg’s reversal of his own
conviction, which gives Gustav
a slight margin in points, is
obviously a Pyrrhic victory.
Otway’s translation of
Moliere’s “The Cheats of
Scapin” stretches out the bill.
It is a poor play, poorly acted
by the company’s regulars in
a manner that seems to
combine all that is artistically
execrable in pantomime,
weekly rep. and end-of-term
romp


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage end Music
Rudolf Firkusny
At his first solo recital in
Sydney the Czech-born pianist
made it clear, with his reading
of the Schumann C Major
Fantasia, that he has a special
affinity with the works of the
romantic school. The Fantasia,
Schumann’s finest keyboard
work, is alive with strong
emotion, especially in the rhap-
sodic first movement and in
the deeply serious slow section
which ends it.
Firkusny used the left hand
powerfully in the early stages
to stress the high-voltage
emotionalism of this section ;
and later, where the thematic
stream in the bass is broken
into a series of melodic rivu-
lets, he balanced these accur-
ately at high speed with the
chief melody in the right hand.
The centre-movement march
was given much more forth-
right treatment than is usual
—the chords in the lower
reaches fairly booming.
Three miniature sonatas by
Scarlatti —emotionless pieces
of almost mathematical quality
cast in the moto perpetuo
style he favored were
handled with deceptive ease.
Four Dances by Smetana con-
tained a furiant with quickly
alternating rhythms; a lively
polka; and two folk-dances,
highly colored, yet with a
strange undercurrent of sad-
ness running through them.
Debussy’s “Suite Bergamas-
que” was chiefly remarkable
for the finely phrased modula-
tions of the Prelude, the
extreme delicacy of the night
piece, “Claire de Lune,” and
the sophistication woven into
the pastiche of the 18th-
century passepied.
Firkusny wound - up the
night’s playing with a whirl-
wind performance of Proko-
fieff's immensely difficult
Toccata, Op. 11.
There was never any sug-
gestion of mincing fopperies,
of pressed flowers or scented
lace in Firkusny’s playing of
the Chopin B Minor Sonata,
the big work of his second solo
recital. The romance he con-
iured was of a much sturdier
character, with almost a flavor
of the flippant in the rhythms
of the final movement. Even
the fine melodic line of the
largo possessed, as an intro-
spective interlude, a quality of
wide-awakeness rather than of
something spun out of dreams.
The short Duport Variations
—rather thin material, but with
the Mozartian sun shining
brightly through them—were
subtly phrased, with a clear,
bell-like quality of tone.
Australian composer Ray-
mond Hanson's “On Holiday”
—an engaging little piece,
exhilaratingly given—was fol-
lowed by a pair of Debussy
Preludes: “La Terrasse,” all
shimmering mirage ; and “La
Puerta del vino,” in which
impressionism failed in its con-
tention with Andalusian
rhythms.
Janacek’s “The First of
October, 1905,” which com-
memorates a political killing,
has in its first movement an
explosive tumult with little to
commend it. The elegiac
repose of the second part was
in much better vein, and it. was
played in deeply thoughtful
style.
Pyrotechnics came with a
collection of settings from
S t r a v i n s k y’s “Petrouchka”
ballet, nearly all of them of
great technical complexity and
of a pace made for brilliant
bravura playing. Firkusny
laid his ears back and tore
into them, bringing-off a burst
of coruscating virtuosity.
“The Country Wife”
“The Country Wife” is
basically a sex-joke. It is
Wycherley asking whether
you’ve ever heard the one about
the rake who pretended to be
impotent so that gullible men
would trust him with their
womenfolk.
Because it is the kind of
joke that is made as a defence
against something feared
(cuckoldry) its humor is often
cruel. It is the most frankly
and vigorously bawdy of the
Restoration comedies and it
lacks much of the grace and
subtlety of its contemporaries.
But it is a very good sex-joke.,
depending, like so many of its
kind, on how it’s told.
Under producer Leo Scho-
field the Sydney University
Players, at the Wallace Theatre,
told it very well indeed. Wisely
avoiding the errors of know-
ingness and glossiness—which
merely bring up the cruelty
and taint the powder and scent
with a sweetish smell of
decadence—their approach was
simple, gay and spirited.
The whole production, in
fact, was something of a
triumph, showing a degree of
care and finish uncommon in
amateur companies.
Scenery consisted of three
archways which became doors
and windows in various com-
binations, or simply a colon-
nade. Props were kept at a
minimum, all expressing a
strong period-feeling in pastels
and white. Costumes were
well made and harmoniously
colorful ; and the witty inci-
dental music was specially
composed for the occasion by
Ralph Midenway.
Acting, however, was a shade
uneven. Overeagerness in
striving for “style” and formal
effects led some of the players
into patches of unintelligibility.
This was especially noticeable
in Kenneth Horler’s vigorous
drawing of the gullible Sir
Jasper Fidget and in the other-
wise attractive work of Mari-
lyn Lee Morey, Freda Lesslie
and Rosalyn Smyth as the
three ladies who are the prime
and willing objects of the
rake’s stratagem.
Others, notably Jane Rendel
—whose country wife was a
generally appealing mixture of
naivete and sexual readiness —
sometimes underplayed their
way into the same error.
An outstanding exception
here was Philip Hedley, whose
portrait of the inevitable
Restoration fop was rich in
mincing and braying comedy,
and always created a sense of
movement.
lan Smith, as the rake, pro-
duced a convincing blend of
elegance, indolence and
lechery.
♦♦♦
“Heatwave”
In a hall about a hundred
yards up a hunchbacked road
in Artarmon, on Sydney's
North Shore, a company
called the Dashing Delin-
quents is presenting a revue
entitled “Heatwave.”
The company seems to be
trying to set a standard of
small revue comparable to that
of the Phillip-street Theatre;
and though this show lacks the
tight topical comment of
William Orr’s group, and
though there are certain breaks
in its continuity, it looks pro-
mising enough.
Continuity is impaired by
Maurice Sebasio's solo dancing,
which, while good indeed,
hardly justifies the use of the
entire stage. Far better to
feature him on the front, and
change the set behind curtains.
Generally speaking, the first
half of the programme tends
to drag. A song from “My
Fair Lady” could be better
sung, but “A Freud of
Heights?” with Edward Lans-
downe and Jean Stark, in which
the young lady can't con-
vince the psychiatrist that
she really pushes people over
cliff's until she pushes him over,
is a bright little sketch, all the
more pleasant through absence
of rhyme.
The second half is more
interesting. Keira Quinn and
Carole Wagner shine as the
two sailor-girls about to get
tattooed ; in “Old Girls,” Miss
Quinn peoples an otherwise
empty stage with old school-
friends and her barbarously
catty (though rhymed) wit;
there is a touch of naughtiness
in Carole Wagner’s story about
etchings, and freshness in the
final number by the full com-
pany in which they gently hint


Follow the modern trend
in house design...and specify
the world’s strongest
roofing material
liiifii
Mmm
mk
m ■
H
n
i
■
rer
Sfcv>
Vk
f
.
•••• • - • ••••••
liifawis
»s~
oEB
's ■<■
|§: Galvanized
- IBHK pi HM M
JS i Ppi
3,*-PP P • MHt.PMf SHI,;
r fiMPI-T
• •"••• «3P Ini EE P
No matter what type of roof you prefer flat, butterfly,
gable, skillion or hip Lysaght Steel Sheet will express
your ideas perfectly, adding the crowning touch to any
modern home design.
When you compare costs, you will find that a Lysaght
roof results in really worth-while savings . . . enabling
you to stretch your building loan to the utmost.
This most attractive of roofs is unbreakable too, because
Lysaght Red Orb is made especially hard for roofing
purposes.
Why not investigate this beautiful, practical roofing
material today?
• Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel
Sheet.
• Prepainted
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
• Flat
Galvanized
Steel Sheet.
Free— low cost
home plans booklet!
Send today for your copy of these helpful
low-cost home designs, ideal for all
modern-minded budget-minded home
planners.
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney.
Please send me free and post free, your new set of low cost
home plans.
NAM E
_ STATE
GI69C


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
that it’s too darn hot fo puf on
a good revue.
Noel Kalucy produced, and
Len Leslie played a piano that
could do with tuning.
+*♦ ♦+♦ **♦
“Roar Like a Dove”
This piece of theatrical con-
fectionery by Lesley Storm,
served-up by Googie Withers
and John McCallum, is cur-
rently melting hearts at the
Comedy, Melbourne.
Its obstetrical basis is not the
least of its attractions. Miss
Withers is an American girl
who has married Lord Dun-
gavel. Lord Dungavel is proud,
as he should be, of his his-
toric castle, the 1000 acres of
Scottish soil he has reclaimed
from marshland, of his dis-
tillery and of his pedigreed
cows, horses, pigs and other
fauna, and he wants to pre-
serve them and hand them on
to a male descendant who will
love them as much as he does.
He has tried hard to produce
such an heir, and Lady Dun-
gavel has tried hard, too ; but,
after nine years of trying, all
that Has eventuated is six hand-
some girls.
He still wants to go on try-
ing, but Lady Dungavel has
lost the co-operative spirit. She
yearns for the lights of Paris
and a home-returning triumph,
and is bitterly disappointed
because the advent of another
baby prevented her wearing
her tiara at the Coronation.
Divorce seems the only alter-
native to being listed for ever
among the Dungavel stud-
mares.
She brings her parents across
to adjudicate in the matter.
Mrs. Chadwick throws herself
on the side of her daughter.
Mr. Chadwick has a furtive
admiration for his son-in-law
and his aspirations. They con-
coct a conspiracy between them
and it comes off. On Christ-
mas Eve Lady Dungavel has
her seventh child, and a piper
announces its sex in the
traditional Scottish manner.
Any humanity there is in
the piece is centred on John
McCallum, who, looking as
if he had stepped out of a
Raeburn portrait, gives a mag-
nificent performance as the
devoted laird. Miss Withers
deploys her usual archness,
and Edward Cullen roars like
a dove through the part of the
American father.
❖ +> ❖
“The Chiltem Hundred's”
It seems that when the Eng-
lish are serious they’re often
funny, and this thought was
uppermost in one’s mind after
seeing the Imperial Playhouse
in action on this English play
at M osman Town Hall
(Sydney).
Comedy engulfs the Earl of
Lister, a delightful rabbit-
shooting elder who is unaware
of the tribulations of his house-
hold. These centre chiefly on
his son Lord Pym, the son’s
American girl-friend, the maid
Bessie, and Beechamp, osten-
sibly the most subservient of
servants.
Lord Pym stands for Parlia-
ment as a Liberal and loses ;
he wants to get back to an
Army job, but his girl insists
that he find a civilian job. A
series of plots by the girl and.
the servant result in the servant
becoming a member of the
House of Lords.
As the Earl, Ralph Cheal
was engaging, and, despite
rather generous assistance from
the prompter, created the
portrait of the evening. As his
wife, Betty Cheal seemed to
overplay, thereby shifting the
focus even more to the earl.
The American girl managed
the accent fairly well, and was
a good foil to the happy-go-
lucky Lord Pym (Jack London).
As Beechamp, John Eldershaw
was funny most of the time,
and very funny in the spots
where he lost his suave intona-
tion and became the working-
man made good.
Production, Keith Goddard.
Artbursts
S.A. Society of Arts
Despite the vigorous
presence of a new president in
Paul Beadle, the Royal S.A.
Society of Arts has not man-
aged to put much life into its
first exhibition for 1959.
At least there is a welcome
infusion of new material in the
shape of sculpture, led by Mr.
Beadle himself. His two bronze
medals are dignified and bril-
liantly executed, while his pear-
wood “Crucifix” has a form
and surface that flow directly
into genuine emotion. The raw
emotion of abstract art is often
mindlessly obvious, but Francis
Thompson’s reds and blues are
as much under control as they
were in a Gothic window.
Margarita Stipnieks, with a
warm nude and a cool girl in
a green chair, ought to be
much more widely known in
Australia than she is, especially
bearing in mind how few
honest figure-painters we have.
Amongst a lot of plodding
observation of familiar scenes,
Geoff Wilson’s “Port Ruins”
stands out in a clear light, with
a bony directness of subject.
However, there is all too much
evidence in this exhibition of
artists repeating themselves,
and there are even paintings
which have hung on the same
walls before. South Australia
is not short of talent.
Films
“The Reluctant Debutante”
Satire is deftly handled by
director Vincente Minnelli in
this polished, well-paced and
beautifully decorated version
of William Douglas Home’s
lightweight comedy about high
life in London. It brings
together two of the screen’s
most skilled exponents of blase
elegance and airy nonchalance
(the play’s chief ingredients):
Rex Harrison and Kay Ken-
dall.
Whether she is tossing around
the feathery ball of social
inanities or flitting about in a
dither trying to “protect” her
flapper stepdaughter from in-
volvement with the jazz-band
drummer who finally stuns
her by inheriting an Italian
dukedom, Miss Kendall’s un-
erring sense of comedy wrings
easy laughs from both lines
and situations. Harrison, as
the harassed father of the
debutante who nightly has his
sleep murdered in the interests
of his wife’s social pleasures,
plays a good set of variations
on the quizzical-look theme.
At Sydney Liberty.
❖ ❖ ♦
“Home Before Dark”
Something doesn’t ring quite
true in this rather depressing
drama about a young wife who
is released from a mental
hospital to face again the
same set of circumstances
which heavily contributed to
putting her there.
Her domineering stepmother
still lives in her husband’s
house with the stepsister whom
she suspected of having an
affair with her professor
husband. Everything she says
and does is either misunder-
stood or twisted. Her sanity
comes under suspicion once
more, and she turns for sym-
pathy to the one person who
understands her—a colleague
of her husband’s.
The film’s chief weakness
lies in the scriptwriter’s failure
to take a firm line on the ques-
tion of relapse into insanity.
The core of the drama becomes
nebulous, and the audience is
left to fill-in with guesswork
the gaps left by patchwork
situations.
Jean Simmons brings in-
sight and sensitivity to the
role of the wife, especially in
the delineation of growing
fears ; but much of her woi k
is vitiated by the script’s defi-
ciencies.
At Sydney Century.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Intent to Kill”
The action of this thriller is
set almost wholly in a big
Canadian hospital. A gang
under foreign pay is trying to
kill a political exile who has
just undergone a major opera-
tion. No crude blood-and*
bullet stuff the potential
assassin is a gent who knows
enough about surgery to be
able to let air into the patient’s
veins.
Suspicious, the patient has
his room changed. The wrong
man is killed, and a neuro-
surgeon— Richard Todd —is
alerted for the second attempt.
All the baddies finish-up in
the mortuary, and all the
goodies at the altar. Not un-
feasible, and the suspense is
fairly taut.
At Sydney Esquire.


Safeguard
your Estate
t a?
65
Tlie Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1871
TR57.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
by appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. Executor of
your Will.
Advantages: Security .. . Continuity .. . Expert Management . .
Impartiality Accessibility ... Secrecy ... Continuous Audit .. . Moderate
Charges . . . Fidelity to Trust.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the folloiving —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capifal (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £974,220.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter; Rear
Admiral H. J. Buchanan, C.8.E., D.S.O.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
'T'he general rise in interest-rates, flow-
ing from post-war demands for
capital, together with the greater invest-
ment-emphasis placed by life-offices on
equity scrip, company debentures, etc.,
has led to substantial increases, over
recent years, in the scale of bonuses
earned on life-policies. On the whole,
bonus-rates are currently at about the
highest level for 20 years or more.
Enhanced by this trend and by worth-
while tax-concessions, the peculiar attrac-
tions of life-assurance continue to provide
major life-offices with a succession of
record-breaking figures ; but, while busi-
ness remains brisk, the entry into the
Australian market of several overseas
cos. and of some local accident-offices has
done nothing to moderate the increasingly
keen competition for new business.
In the search for profitable avenues of
investment and sources of new business,
a number of the big life-cos. have moved
into fire- and accident-insurance, linked
with h.-p. concerns, formed nominee
cos. and in various other ways added
new twists to the tangled relationship
springing-up in financial circles.
Against this background, the National
Mutual last term decided to be a little
less modest about its financial strength.
In addition to the now almost-expected
batch of record figures, the association,
without in any way painting the lily,
added £13.6 million to the book-value
of its life-fund by expressing in Austra-
lian currency overseas assets and liabili-
ties hitherto included in the accounts
without adjustment.
The first of the major life-offices to
form its own fire-insurance offshoot (in
1957), the 89-year-old National Mutual
writes life-contracts, other than industrial
policies, throughout Australia and in
New Zealand, the U.K., South Africa
and Ceylon.
Competitive rates, attractive bonuses
and sound finances, backed by enterpris-
ing management and a scale of policies
covering a wide variety of needs, have
helped the National Mutual to attain
its present stature as the second-largest
of the big mutual life-offices, the co.
completing the year to September 30 last
with 730,261 policies in force assuring
£662.4 million and providing annuities
for £2.6 million per annum.
Although the number of new contracts
issued last year dropped by 2763 to
72,062, the gross sum assured was
£6 million higher than the adjusted figure
for the preceding year at £106.8 million,
while total net income rose by £2.5
million to £26.6 million: —
/ Year to Sept. 30 N
New business— 1956. 1957. 1958.*
Policies . . 71,431 74,825 72,062
Amount . . £79,464,240 £92,504,591 £106,784,910
Total income 19,746,412 21,995,260 26,684,532
Total assets. . 126,531,060 138,296,827 165,538,751
* Figures adjusted to allow for premiums on
overseas currencies previously ignored.
Reassurances left the net sum assured
at a record £104.3 million and net
premium income at £19.8 million, invest-
ment income, less taxes, rates, etc., rising
to £6.8 million to make up the £26.6
million of total net income: —
Added
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Life Fund.
£ £ £ £
From tax reserve, £150,000 .."1
1955. .18,019,906 7.077,431 2.121,855 |
Written-off assets, £60,660 .. \ 8,409,960
Exchange adjustment, £209,000.. I
To contingencies res., £300,000.. )
1956. .19,746,412 7,550,605 2,394,838 1
Written-off assets, £29,075 .. 1 9,733,744
Exchange adjustment, £38.150 . . 1
1957. .21,995,260 7,948,238 2,725,174 1
Written-off assets, £45,525 .. i 11,098,411
Exchange adjustment, £177,912. . J
Added on conversion to £A of
overseas items and by trans-
fers from reserves, etc., net
£13,648,816.
19581.26,684,532 10,156,082 3,124,302 1 o 97q 7 n 0
Written-off assets, £124,358 .. j ’ ’
* Includes licences, fees and contribution to staff
fund, etc.
1 Adjusted to allow for premiums on overseas cur-
rencies previously ignored.
Management expenses and commissions
absorbed a lower proportion of net
income (11.2 p.c., as against an
unadjusted 11.82 p.c. in 1957), and, after
writing-down assets by £124,358, sending
£80,455 to staff-funds and meeting much
heavier claims (up £1,238,576 at
£10,156,082), a substantial £13,279,790
was added to the life-fund which, with
the currency adjustments referred to
earlier, rose to £156,607,676.
Including variations due to the
currency-adjustment, covering, presum-
ably, a £775,061 drop (to £3,350,000) in
contingency, exchange and sundry
reserves, policyholders’ funds increased
by a net £26,173,545.
The net rate of interest earned on the
assurance fund rose by over 2s. p.c. to
£4 12s. lOd. p.c., further widening the
margin between the 2} p.c. earning-rate
assumed in estimating the majority of
policy liabilities and the rate actually
earned. This margin is the main source
of policyholders’ profit, or surplus, from
which bonuses are allotted.
In the main policy liabilities were cal-
culated on a basis similar to that used
in the preceding term, with adjustments
being made to allow for the decline in
expenses after meeting the initial costs
of a policy. The assured earning-rate on
net premiums for all non-participating
assurances and endowments was
increased from 2{ p.c. to 3 p.c., the latter
rate applying only to deferred annuities
and to “certain” non-participating endow-
ments in 1957. The A 1949-52 mortality-
tables were used for non-participating
assurances in lieu of the A 1924-29 tables.
The valuation of liabilities disclosed a
surplus of £5, 569,639 in the life fund:
Annual Valuation.
30/9/’56. 30/9/’57 30/9/’sB.*
Brought forward £201,949 £462,891 ) „ - ~ rn „„ Q
Total surplus . . 3,788,996 3,907,239 j
Appropriation—
Bonuses . . 3,528,054 3,856,000 5,150,000
Carried forward 462,891 514,130 419,639
* Adjusted to allow for premiums on overseas
currencies previously ignored.
From the surplus, £5,150,000 was used
to provide compound reversionary
bonuses on the highest scale adopted for
over 20 years and amounting, on
maturity, to £9,060,000.
The gross interest-rate earned has risen
by approximately £1 p.c. over the last


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhtlls.”
Telephone: BW 1165 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O'Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: Bff 1771—8 W 8088
six years and further improvement is
expected as the proceeds of maturing
investments are re-invested at current
interest-rates.
On the subject of interest-rates, the
remarks of chairman Sir Robert Knox
(in relation to the private investment of
superannuation-funds) are worthy of
note. Sir Robert pointed out that there
is a tendency to assume that the present
high yields on new investments will con-
tinue indefinitely and that “there is also
a tendency to ascribe to equity invest-
ment continual capital - appreciation
which, perhaps, equity investment does
not really possess.” While these remarks
could be further qualified, they are par-
ticularly appropriate at a time when
sharemarket enthusiasm for front-line
scrip is often based, very largely, on an
anticipated continuation of sharemarket
optimism, with very little attention being
given to the potential ability of a par-
ticular co. to reward its shareholders.
There were no marked changes last
year in the investment of the National
Mutual funds, the currency adjustment
obscuring the actual extent of the varia-
tions indicated in the balance-sheet:
/ 195, ■ —{ — l IffoS' 7
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. 5,177,720 3.7 7,734,375 4.7
Govt, securitiesf 52.475,804 38.0 59,111,621 35.7
Debentures . . 6.812,407 4.9 9,446,914 5.7
Mortgages .. 52,919,986 35.3 62,758,186 37.9
Loans on policies 7,296,697 5.3 9,861,336 5.9
Shares other cos. 8,184,618 5.9 11,942,759 7.2
Shares building
societies .. 2,505,673 1.8 2,545,624 1.6
Other assets .. 2,923,922 2.1 2,137,936 1.3
Total assels 138,296,827 100.0 165,538,751 100.0
Liabilities! .. 4.512,696 5,581,075
Net assets .. 133,784,131 159,957,676
* Adjusted to allow for premiums on overseas
currencies previously ignored.
t Includes semi-Government loans, etc.
t Excluding liabilities under policies.
Government securities accounted for
35.7 p.c. of all assets at September 30
last (38 p.c. a year earlier), mortgages
for 37.9 p.c. (38.3 p.c.) and loans on
policies, etc., for 5.9 p.c. (5.3 p.c.), with
the trend towards co.-scrip and deben-
tures taking these two items, combined,
to 12.9 p.c. (10.8 p.c.).
Rosella Preserving
'T'he deterioration of the export-trade
A in jams, canned soup, etc., and the
expanded plant-capacity of the food-
processing industry as a whole have in-
tensified competition in local canned-food
markets over the last two or three years,
and the less-buoyant trading conditions
continue to show-up in the accounts of
individual manufacturers.
In the case of Rosella Preserving and
Manufacturing Co., Ltd.—one of the
largest and most successful concerns of
its kind in Australia—earnings jumped
to a peak of £250,276 in 1955, slipped
to £222.147 in 1956, and, after remaining
at that level in the following term, fell
by a further 10 p.c. last term, with the
tax-provision for the year suggesting a
drop of around a third in taxable earn-
ings. The co. doesn’t reveal its turnover,
but overall income for the period to
September 30 last appears to have been
down by more than 25 p.c. on that of
the previous term.
However, Rosella is well placed, techni-
cally, financially and in trade-connections,
to maintain its reputation as a good
profit-winner and div.-payer and, even
at last term’s reduced figure, earnings
were still equal to a healthy 20 p.c. on
a share-capital increased by a two-for-
three bonus-issue in 1956.
Rosella products were first marketed
in 1895, a pty. co., formed in the follow-
ing year, handing-over to the present
parent co. in 1911. Since then divs. have
been a regular annual event, the div.-
rate, 12y p.c. in the last two terms,
averaging 12i p.c. over the 10 years up
to the two-for-three handout.
Financed by a revaluation of freeholds,
the bonus-issue lifted the all-ord. paid
capital to £1,000,000 and, in amount, was
four times as great as the £lOO,OOO of
share-premiums collected, with £200,000
of fresh capital, between 1949 and 1951.
These issues are the only cash-
subscriptions accepted by the co. since
the 1939-45 war.
The Victorian-registered Rosella has its
main factory in the Melbourne suburb
of Richmond, other large plants in
N.S.W., Tasmania and South Aust. con-
tributing their share of the jams, soups,
pickles, sauces, tinned-fruits and -vege-
tables, etc., turned-out by the organisa-
tion.
According to chairman E. A. Cato,
last term’s fall in turnover was largely
confined to jams, the chairman (after
commenting that New Australians aren’t
big jam-eaters), attributing the decline in
jam-sales to the increased popularity of
various savoury-spreads and similar lines
in which Rosella isn't directly interested.
Although overall profit-margins seem
to have been held fairly well in the face
of the lower turnover, the smaller income
cut net-earnings from £222,860 to
£200,479:
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Sept.. Profit. ( —Dividends— N serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1955.. 250.276 171 p.c. =105,000 145,276 910,657
Freeholds revalued, £420,832 .. 1,331,489
Reserves capitalised, £400,000 .. 931,489
Profit sale assets, £222 .. .. 931,711
From inner (slock) reserve, £450,000 1,381,711
Tax overprovided, £12,296 .. .. 1,394,007
1956.'. 222,147 15 p.c. =105,000 117,147 1,511,154
Profit sale assets, £14,671 .. .. 1,525,825
1957.. 222,860 124 p.c. =125,000 97.560 1,623,685
Profit sale assets, £10,729 .. .. 1,634,414
1958.. 200,479 121 p.c. =125,000 75,479 1,709,893
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,508,
at September 30, 1958.
Written after allowing £54,415 (down
£3953) for depreciation and making a
much lighter provision for tax (down
£49,450 at £109,587), the profit repre-
sented a return of 20 p.c. on share-capital
compared with 22.2 p.c. in the two
preceding years and 25 p.c. (all on present
capital) in 1955. The p.c. div.
claimed £125,000, to leave £75,479 for
reserve, which, with a further £10,729
capital-profit, now exceed paid capital by
a substantial £709,893.
Within the solid financial framework,
the stock figure (at the lower of cost or
market) is the one most likely to call
for a second look, the co., having com-
menced last term with stocks at a fairly
high level, seeing a further build-up over
the year. Up £276,026 last term, stocks
have grown by more than £1,000,000 (or
close to 80 p.c.) in the last two years and
the extent of the sales-appeal of the lines
involved will, no doubt, be a factor in
determining earnings in the current
term:
Consolidated Balance-siieet.
195*5. 1957. 1958.
Capital .. .. £1.000,000 £l,O-00,000 £1,000,000
Reserves .. .. 1,511.154 1,623,585 1,709,893
Overdraft.. .. 277,960 571,774
Cieditors .. «• 201,508 ) oiarofi
Staff fund.. .. 15,000 ) 213,406 lIL.SIA
Tax provision .. 165,383 159,663 110,242
Filial div. .. 105,000 125,000 125,000
£2,998,045 £3,399,714 £3,739,222
Property .. .. 780,845 857,325 942,121
Plant, etc. .. 202,071 223,882 243,568
Stocks .. .. 1,281,134 2.014,393 2,290,419
Debtors .. .. 278,344 256,464 217,693
Cash, etc. .. 425,143 17,142 14,910
Goodwill, etc. .. 30,508 30,508 30,508
£2,998,045 £3,399,714 £3,739,222
Extensions to warehouses at Richmond
and Tatura (both in Victoria) and to
offices in Sydney were completed during
the term, together with a new warehouse
in Adelaide, a net £104,482 being added
to the book-value of fixed assets, (free-
holders were revalued in 1956, plant, etc.,
appearing at cost, less depreciation). Un-
distributed profits were about £lB,OOO
short of the net outlay on premises and
plant, funds released by the second suc-
cessive slip in book-debts (down £38,768)
and a further £293,814 from the bank
helping to cover the capital-outlay, the
rise in stocks and a net £40,514 reduction
in the amounts against creditors and pro-
visions for tax and dividend.
Trading conditions in the current term
seem unlikely to be any easier than they
were in the last term but the 12|- p.c.
div.-rate seems safe enough, and on this
basis the 10s. ords. would return £4 9s.
4d. p.c. at 28s. Net tangible cover
at September 30 last was a shade under
265. lOd.
On present indications, shareholders
may have to be content with their current
return for a while yet.
Lombard Australia, Ltd.
A couple of years ago it looked as if
Consolidated Finance Corp. would
possibly skim-off somewhat less cream
from its hire - purchase - cum - furniture
business than that going to a number of
its smaller rivals in the h.-p. game.
Since then, however, the co., now


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
I\ R. LEVY
M. B. li. DOWLIXG
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Stock Exchange.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - - - 27-3414
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
known as Lombard Australia, Ltd., has
developed in a most encouraging fashion.
H.-p. outstandings have risen by 75 p.c.,
the proportion of borrowed money to
shareholders’ funds has increased to a
ratio appropriate to the type of business,
practically all of the troublesome furni-
ture-retailing offshoots have been sold or
are about to be liquidated, and activities
have spread from the eastern States to
Adelaide and Perth.
While the continuing demand for h.-p.
accommodation cleared the way for these
moves, much of the impetus behind
Lombard’s development has sprung from
the purchase by Lombard Banking, Ltd.,
of London, of a controlling share-interest.
This U.K. financier, with interests in
N.Z., South Africa, Uganda, Singapore
and the West Indies, bustled onto the
Australian scene 12 months ago with an
offer of 7s. 6d. in cash for up to 60 p.c.
of the local co.’s 4,289,050 ss. ords., then
selling at around 6s. 6d. Acceptance of
the offer, up to a full 60 p.c., involved
the payment of £965,000 in cash.
[Lombard Banking, which is said to
control assets of over £56 million, has
since been less successful, apparently, in
negotiations for a 51 p.c. shareholding
in Brisbane Permanent Building and
Banking Co., Ltd. Coming from an h.-p.
concern, the proposition had most enter-
taining possibilities, as the Brisbane co.
holds a charter under the 1945 Banking
Act to operate as a trading-bank, .a right
which it exercises only in a very limited
fashion and only in Queensland.]
Attracted by the backing of the U.K.
parent co. and the manner in which
Lombard Australia is shaping, the share-
market now prices the ss. ords in the
subsidiary co. at 10s. 9d., the premium
being put to good use earlier this year
in a successful bid for the share-capital
of Westralian - registered Associated
Acceptance Holdings, Ltd., Lombard
offered one ss. share and 3s. in cash for
each of the 1,400,000 10s. ords. in Asso-
ciated Acceptance, which, as Lawley
Finance, Ltd., itself took-over Associated
Acceptance Corp. (Vic.), Ltd., and Asso-
ciated Fire and General Insurance Co.
Pty. in 1957. At least, that is how the
transaction was described, but as the
vendors received over half of the holding
co.’s paid capital there could be some
doubt as to just who took-over who.
Associated Acceptance Holdings showed
outstandings of over £1,000,000 at June
30 last, earnings for the year to that date
equalling approximately 24 p.c. on the
share-content of the consideration put up
by Lombard, assuming an eventual 100-
p.c. takeover.
On the same assumption the deal
would raise Lombard’s paid capital to
£1,822,263, including £400,000 in 7 p.c.
prefs.
In addition to the Associated h.-p. and
insurance cos., Lombard’s operating sub-
sidiaries include Kilners Pty. and Lily-
field Furniture Co. Pty., two Sydney cos.
which, between them, are engaged in the
removal, storage and manufacture of
furniture, etc. The sale, a few weeks ago,
of the Sydney interests of A. W. Booth
Pty., left a small Wollongong (N.S.W.)
store as the only remaining retail outlet
on the furniture side of the business.
These secondary interests are now a very
minor part of the organisation, the board
concentrating on the expansion of
finance activities. Roughly half of Lom-
bard’s h.-p. outstandings relate to new
or used motor-vehicles, tractors and
various types of machinery, the other
half relating to domestic appliances, TV-
receivers, furniture, etc.
Net earnings rose, with outstandings,
over the year to June 30, 1958, increasing
by £30,689 to £258,488 after providing
an extra £128,157 for tax (£199,370) and
adjusting for a tax-overprovision in 1957.
Latest accounts, for .the six months to
December 31, bring the accounting-period
into line with the U.K. parent and show
the maintenance of earnings at the higher
level. A £763,058 rise in outstandings
during the half-year promises further
profit-gains. Net profit for the six months
was £128,625, claimed after setting aside
£40,453 for taxation and holding the
provision for unearned income at a
satisfactory 12 p.c. of total outstand-
ings :
s Dividends — To Re-
June, Profit.'* Pref. Ord. Total. serves. Deficit.
£ • p.c. p.c. £ £ £
Less reserve adjustments. £145,474 .. 69.080
Added goodwill, £19,353 . . .. 88,433
From tax reserve, £15,043 .. .. 73,390
1904. .112,782 7 12 i 87,748 25,034 48,356
Tax overprovided, £15,933 .. .. 32,423
Added reserves, £4935 .. .. .. 27,488
1955. .169,068 7 15 139,262 29,806 2,318
Reduction intangibles, £i4,49S .. 16,816
Profit sale assets, etc., £751 .. .. 17,567
Unexplained addition, £936 .. .. 18,503
Debenture-exp. w/off, £30,201 ) .. 90700
1956. .230,000 7 15 188,579 )
Unexplained addition (net), £13,963.. 43,692
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 38,692
Less adjustment outside shareholding,
£257 38,435
Less added intangibles, £5363 . . 33,072
Debenture-exp. w/off, £31,238 ) , - 4 g 687
1957. .195,482 7 Hi 148.629 ) J 4a ’ 08 '
Tax overprovided, £32,317 .. .. 81,004
Profit sale assets, £12,865 .. .. 93,869
Reduction intangibles, £2600 .. .. 96,469
To staff-fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 91,469
Unexplained addition, £329 .. ... 91,798
Debenture-exp. w/off, £21,122 1 . 9ro 700030
1958..258,488 7 10 135,226 )’ ’ ’
Tax overprovided, £BO6 .. .. .. 194,744
To staff fund, £3OOO .. .. .. 191,744
Dec.,
Debenture-exp. w/off, £48.940 ) ni9 503 816
1958. .128,625 7 10 67,613 )
* Less proportion due to outside shareholders,
t After deducting goodwill and difference between
par and book-value of shares in subsidiaries.
The co., in common with a number of
h.-p. financiers, follows the practice of
writing - off debenture - issue expenses
against accumulated profits as they occur.
While this procedure has several advan-
tages, it means that the cost of debenture-
issues—surely a normal operating-expense
in an h.-p. concern —is never allowed-for
in the published net profit, the costs
appearing as an appropriation of, rather
than a charge, allocated proportionately,
against earnings. Debenture - issue ex-
penses of £48,940 were written-off last
term and £82,561 was similarly dealt with
over the three preceding years, the entries
being interlined in the above table, rather
than deducted from profit, to enable a
clearer comparison of earnings.
Pref. divs. swallowed £14,000 of the
£128,625 net profit claimed last term,
the balance equalling a return of 21.3
p.c., p.a. on ord. capital as it stood at
December 31, compared with 21.5 p.c.
in the preceding term and 18.7 p.c.
(adjusted for the big tax over-provision)
in 1957. The ord. div.-rate, lifted from
12| p.c. to 15 p.c. in 1955, was reduced
to 11| p.c. in 1957 and to 10 p.c. last
term, in order to speed the accumulation
of reserves.
The pref.-money costs 11 p.c. in divs.
and tax and the 10 p.c. ord.-rate could
remain a fixture for a year or so yet. At
the same time, now that the gearing of
outside money to shareholders’ funds has
been stepped-up, the need to strengthen
the earning-power of share-capital with
greater reserves is less urgent than it was
a few years ago. At December 31 last,
the ratio of shareholders’ funds to
borrowed money was 1: 3 as against 1:1.7,
at the end of the 1957 term:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
( June ■, Dec.,
Paid capital—■ 1957. 1958. 1958.
Pref .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord 1,072,263 1,072,263 1,072,263
Reserves . . .. 48,687 193,938 203,816
Outside interests. . 5,027 5,126 4,998
Debentures and
deposits •• 2,179,450 2,775,581 4,633,336
Unearned income.. 521,503 785,371 881,498
Overdraft *» 520,649 1,293,889 445,061
Creditors, etc. .. 198,292 220,623 288,437
Tax provision .. 103,471 198,675 237,520
Final div. •• 67,613 67,613 67,613
Inter-eo. .. .. 1,788
£5,116,955 £7,019,079 £8,236,330
Freeholds .. • • 386,731 308,381 318,398
Plant, etc. .. 49,746 49,219 48,337
Shares other cos... 1,450 1 502,107
Stock .. .. 111,183 109,896 52,907
Debtors .. .. 4,515,211 6,550,757 7,313,815
Cash, etc. .. 746 825 766
Inter-co. .. 51,888
£5,116,955 £7,019,079 £8,236,330
The £2,453,886 of debenture- and
deposit-money gathered in over the 18
months to the end of last term has
greatly reduced the dependence on bank-
accommodation and gone towards financ-
ing an extra £2,798,604 in outstandings,
the withdrawal from furniture-retailing
being reflected by a £58,276 drop in
stocks over the same period. The co.


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agent) /or
Rapid Magnet ting; Machines,
Ceorge Ellison Switch tJear,
ft., Makers of Classifiers,
Water tillers. Steam Valves,
GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability)
With principal and interest unconditionally guaranteed
by General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York
6£
7%
per annum
per annum .
. . . 3 YEARS
.6 and 10 YEARS
£lOO or any multiple thereof may be invested in any or all of the currencies—
-3 years, 6 years, 10 years. GMAC, Australia has the right to repay earlier.
Conditions of repayment, including premiums, are set out in the prospectus.
Registers of holders of the Loan Stock will be kept in Melbourne, Sydney ,
Adelaide and Perth.
We report that, in our Opinion, as at December 31, 1958 Total paid up
Capital and earned surplus of General Motors Acceptance Corporation,
Australia was 3,356,258 dollars and total tangible assets were 47,120,747
dollars. Furthermore, in our opinion, as at December 31, 1958 total Notes,
Loans and Debentures payable by General Motors Acceptance Corporation,
New York amounted to 3,221,688,114 dollars. Its other liabilities amounted
to 364,439,909 dollars and its total tangible assets were 3,881,283,432 dollars.
Melbourne, February 9, 1959. Signed Haskins & Sells, Auditors.
HOW TO APPLY
Applications for Loan Stock can be accepted only on the printed form attached to
the prospectus. Copies ofjult prospectus with application form obtainable from:
BRANCHES OF COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
Underwritten by the
ANGLO AUSTRALIAN CORPORATION Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne Sydney.
Brokers to the Issue
lAN POTTER & CO.
Melbourne, Sydney Canberra.
offers no explanation for the
big (£502,107) investment in
other cos., leaving investors to
speculate on the possible impli-
cations.
In the current term out-
standings are reported to have
reached almost £8,000,000 and,
including Associated Accept-
ance’s debts, are expected to
pass the £ 10,000,000-mark be-
fore the end of this year. The
extension of TV-services to all
capital cities should compen-
sate for some weakening in
TV-sales in Sydney and Mel-
bourne and, with motor-
vehicle registrations holding at
a satisfactory level, immediate
prospects are bright. The
sharemarket, looking to pos-
sible expansion developments,
as well as to trading- and
income-gains, values the ss,
ords. at 10s. 9d.
A relatively high-yielding
stock a year ago, the scrip
at that price would return
£4 13s. p.c. from a 10 p.c. div.,
one of the lowest yields at
present offering in the h.-p.
section of the market. Net
tangible cover at December 31
was a little under 6s.
Oil Search’s Equity
A four-for-five issue of ss.
. shares by Oil Search,
Ltd., to those on the register
on April 14 will bring in
£2,835,000, lifting paid capital
to £6,372,164, and enabling
Oil Search to raise its equity
in Australasian Petroleum Co.
and Island Exploration Co.
from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c. (at a
cost of £1,706,642), leaving
£1,128,358 to finance ordinary
pro rata share-issues by the
operating cos. for fieldwork,
and to cover Oil Search’s own
running expenses.
The current exploration-
programme, up to June, 1960,
is expected to cost around
£3,000,000, and will include
the drilling of Bwata No. 1, a
number of deviated holes from
Puri No. 1 and, if necessary,
a second Puri hole.
Oil Search itself is also
understood to be quite in-
terested in the commercial
possibilities of the gas
encountered at Kurie and
Barikewa.
After the issue (underwritten
by lan Potter and Co., Mel-
bourne, and Hordern, Utz and
Bode, Sydney) closes on May
29, there will be 25,460,000
Oil Search shares floating
round, representing a 15 p.c.
interest in the Papuan oil
search.
This lift to 15 p.c. follows
prolonged negotiations with
the major overseas partners—
B.P. Exploration and Vacuum
Oil who in October last
year had been considering
whether they should withdraw
from Papua and hand-over a
414- p.c. interest to a new Aus-
tralian co., to be called Papuan
Oil Search, Ltd. The oil-strike
in Puri changed their minds, but
they have “come good” to the
extent of letting Oil Search
increase its holding by 50 p.c.
It has also been agreed to
arrange the taxation-affairs of
the operating cos. in such a
manner as to allow Oil Search
shareholders resident in Aus-
tralia to treat the whole of
their capital-subscription as a
tax-deduction, excluding, of
course, any premium paid for
“rights.” This concession isn’t
available to B.P. and Vacuum,
as non-residents, and as it
restricts the recoupment of
capital outlay by tax-free divs.
in excess of the £29,000,000
already spent, Oil Search has
agreed to indemnify the two
cos. against any disadvantages
they may ultimately suffer.
Puri is still not proved as a
commercial oilfield, but hopes
seem to be high. A former
senior geologist for Austra-
lasian Petroleum has said, “I
persist in claiming that Puri
is an oilfield, and that it is
bigger than anyone yet
realises.”


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberr-a, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
Thrift—and Spendthrift
Wellington (N.Z.), Mar. 30.
nriME brings many changes.
. Now Labor politicians are
going about extolling the vir-
tues of old-fashioned thrift.
For years the story was:
“Don’t worry. The State will
look after you from the cradle
to the grave.” But now, appa-
rently, belated concern is being
felt about the result —a strong
and widespread disinclination
to save.
“It is a reflection on the out-
look of our generation when
a young man receiving a rela-
tively high wage cannot pro-
vide a deposit of even £lOO or
£2OO when he is offered a low-
interest loan to build a home.
“Some people could save a
whole lot more than they are
doing, with distinct benefit to
themselves and to the com-
munity.”
Who's that speaking? Not
some diehard Tory. It is the
Minister of Finance, Mr. Nord-
meyer.
“If we want an expanding
economy we have to find the
money for it,” he added. “If
we can find some of the money
by savings it should not be
necessary to increase taxation.”
At least this is lip-service
to thrift. But what, in fact,
is being done to encourage it?
Virtually nothing. Almost all
the incentives work the other
way.
Savings and Capital
For far too long it has been
the practice of the Government
—the Labor party when in
power, and, to a lesser extent,
the National party —to protect
those who spend to the hilt
from the natural consequences
of their action and to demand
that those who have exercised
self-denial in one form or
another make up deficiencies
in savings.
As the president of the Wel-
lington Chamber of Commerce
recently pointed out, taxes have
been imposed on the least-
numerous voters in favor of
the most-numerous, irrespec-
tive of whether such a course
is just or equitable or likely
to be in the best interests of
the whole community.
Only a few months ago. for
instance, a tax of up to 7s. in
the £ was imposed on company
dividends, forming part of
profits on which tax of 10s.
in the £ has already been paid
by the company.
This tax obviously places an
inequitable burden on those
who have saved and provided
the capital which forms the
lifeblood of the nation’s in-
dustry. ‘ In other words, Mr.
Nordmeyer is penalising those
who are doing just what he
says they should do.
Saving v. Inflation
Many more instances of
specific injustice are all too
easy to find. In a general sense,
too, the thrifty have suffered.
They have seen their hard-
earned savings constantly
eroded by inflation, one of the
main causes of which has been
Socialistic policy, introduced
by the Labor party and per-
petuated by the National party.
Many people have woken-up
to the fact that Post Office
Savings Bank interest just
doesn’t replace the amount
which inflation each year
deducts from deposited savings.
The interest paid on Govern-
ment loans barely does that.
There is virtually no reward
for the postponement of con-
sumption which makes the
loans possible.
The Sacred Cow
Then there is Social Security.
No politician nowadays dare
say a word against it. The
scheme has become a sacred
cow, and every year it is get-
ting fatter. But there is no
doubt that in many respects
it is ill-conceived and has done
a great amount of harm in
undermining initiative and self-
reliance.
More than once in the corre-
spondence columns of the
newspapers there have been
letters from women complain-
ing that the child-benefit (now
15s. a week for each child)
is not enough to “keep my
children”!
The State pensions scheme
seems to be deliberately de-
signed to encourage the spend-
thrift.
A newspaper correspondent
writes: “1 am a married man
aged 40, with a freehold house.
My wife and 1 have £l5OO of
savings, invested. If, over the
next 20 years, we save an
average of £4OO a year, w'e will
have a total of £9500. Invested
at 5 per cent., this will bring
us in about £9 10s. a week
when I am 60. If, on the
other hand, we spend all our
income for the next 20 years,
we will have £l5OO, which will
bring us in £1 10s. a week, and
we will receive £8 a week from
the State. Our total income
will still be £9 10s. a week.
“Why should we deny our-
selves for 20 years to reach
60 no better off than a couple
who spend every penny? It is
a known fact that many people
are, for this reason, refusing
to save, and that those who
have saved are ‘blowing’ the
lot on a trip abroad when they
reach 60. If there is to be any
State pension at 60 it should be
paid to all irrespective of other
income.”
Pensions for Improvidence
If the couple concerned wait
till they are 65 years of age,
they can keep their savings and
the income from them and
draw the “universal” pension
as well, free from means test.
But at 60 the remaining years
are precious.
Why should the State reward
with a pension at 60 a couple
who have saved nothing at all
and make those who have
saved more than a specified
amount wait till they are 65?
Surely it should be the other
way round.
It is generally understood
that the present test on the age
benefit at 60 will ultimately be
abolished. But, if saving is
required now, the political
parties should say now exactly
what they plan to do.
Tote-money Tight
From N.Z. racecourses
comes clear evidence of tighter
money conditions.
Aggregate tote “investments”
on eight meetings on Saturday,
March 28, were £114,939 less
than on the corresponding
meetings last year. All of
the eight clubs handled less
money on course than last
year. At the Auckland meet-
ing investments fell by £51,496
to £177,432.
This was no isolated event.
The previous Saturday invest-
ments on a total of six meet-
ings were £107,728 down com-
pared with the previous year.
At the Manawatu meeting the
amount handled fell by 25 per
cent, to £74,672.
In racing administrative
quarters it is believed that tote
turnover will continue to fall,
reflecting, as it usually does, a
tightening of the public purse.
The utmost significance is
attached to the decline in off-
course investments. Some clubs
have already taken the prudent
course of slightly pruning
stakes.
Aust.-N.Z. Customs Union?
The idea of a Customs union
between N.Z. and Australia has
been attracting some attention
lately. One of the main pro-
ponents of the scheme is Sir
James Fletcher, chairman of
Fletcher Holdings and of Tas-
man Pulp and Paper.
Opening the Australian in-
dustrial exhibition at the N.Z.
Easter Show, he said that, in
the development of its trade,
N.Z. should begin with Aus-
tralia. The formation of a
Customs union would be of
tremendous importance and
could mean free-trade between
the two countries.
A different view comes from
Sir William Goodfellow, pro-
minent in the dairy industry.
It was difficult to see just
what N.Z. could gain by a
Customs union or free - trade
with Australia, he said. Such
a plan would greatly boost
exports from Australia at the
expense of the United King-
dom.
“We would be placed in a
similar position to Western
Australia, which is anything
but satisfied with Sydney and
Melbourne domination.
“Last year N.Z. sold £28.3
million to Australia and pur-
chased £47.4 million from Aus-
tralia, an adverse balance of
£19.1 million. If this enormous
trade - gap remains, it will
sooner or later substantially
reduce our negotiating ability
and goodwill with the United
Kingdom. It is our duty to
safeguard and foster the very
valuable position of our pri-
mary industries in the United
Kingdom. Australia will con-
tinue to expand and be one
of N.Z.’s main competitors in
all world markets for many
years to come.”


Trouble for George
By PAL CLEARY
Sid came in, placed his
raincoat on the back of
a chair, and began taking
off his clothes. He was
a fat little man in his early
forties, and the greying hairs
on his chest were peculiarly
ugly against the pasty folds of
his flesh.
When he was bare to the
. waist he sat down on the edge
of the bed and began untying
his shoelaces. The bed was
near the window, and he sat
for several minutes gazing out
into the street. It wasn’t yet
noon, but the air was already
grey with a shadow that
promised rain.
With a tired grunt he raised
his legs and stretched out on
the bed. He lay on his back
a long time, staring up at the
ceiling, and finally, without
moving, he fell asleep.
The sound of footsteps
mounting the stairs awoke him
a short time later. The foot-
■ steps stopped outside his door,
and there was a light knock.
( - “Come in,” he said,
j The door opened and Fred
entered. Fred was a boy of
: about 20 who worked for Sid
i in the snooker - room down-
! stairs, and he had come up for
! the keys. He was fairly good-
j looking, with a firm, rugged
i face, and his wide body filled
: the seams of the leather jacket
he was wearing.
He smiled when he came in.
“Hello, Sid,” he said.
“G’day, Fred.” Sid watched
him as he moved into the room
and sat down on a chair facing
the bed. Sid didn’t speak for
a while, and Fred waited
patiently, resting his elbows on
his thighs. “It’s gunna rain,”
Sid said mournfully, turning
slowly to look out the window.
“It’s gunna rain like blazes.”
Fred didn’t answer. He held
out a packet of cigarettes. Sid
shook his head, and Fred lit
one for himself. “What are
you doing in bed?” he asked.
“Don’t you feel the best?”
“I feel all right,” Sid said.
He let several seconds go by
in silence as he watched the
smoke rise front Fred’s
cigarette and turn blue as it hit
the frame of light in the
window. “It doesn't pay to
open up,” he said. “It’s going
to be a bad day.”
Fred shrugged indifferently.
“What time you leave here
yesterday afternoon?” Sid said.
“About three or four I
think,” Fred said. “I hung
around for awhile after George
took over.”
“Didya take any bets?” *»
“Some small stuff. Why?”
“Didya phone them in your-
self?”
“No,” Fred said. “I gave
them to George. What’s the
matter?”
“A bet got lost,” Sid said.
“Who * ost it?” Fred looked
grave.
“George did,” Sid said. He
paused a moment. “It was a
fifty-quid bet. The pay-out is
five-hundred smackers.”
Fred sat up sharply, his lips
repeating the figure with
amazement.
“George wouldn't pocket a
bet,” he said after a moment.
“You know that.”
“I know he wouldn’t,” Sid
said. “But Tom Biancci won’t
care about that. It was
Biancci’s bet.”
“Are you sure Biancci made
it?”
“He made it, all right,” Sid
said. “George remembers
taking it. He got the fifty-quid
in a white envelope. But he
doesn’t remember phoning it
in. And he didn’t give it to
me.”
“What’s gunna happen?”
Fred asked.
Sid looked out the window
at the buildings across the
street and at the small portion
of sky that he could see with-
out moving. “It’s going to
rain,” he said. “It’s gunna rain
like blazes.”
“D’ya want me to open up?”
Fred asked.
“You might as" well,” Sid
reached into his pocket and
gave Fred a set of keys. “But
there won’t be any business.”
Fred walked to the door,
tinkling the keys softly in the
palm of his hand. He turned
and stared down at Sid
thoughtfully. “George
wouldn’t steal anything,” he
said.
“I know,” Sid said. “But it
doesn’t matter.”
“What are you gunna do?”
“There’s nothing I can do,”
Sid said. “I don’t have five-
hundred quid. If I had that
much dough, I’d be able to
cover all the bets myself, in-
stead of just collecting them
for the syndicate.”
“Maybe it’s someone up
there,” Fred said. “Maybe
someone at the syndicate is
fooling around.”
“No,” Sid said. “He didn't
phone it in.”
“Who has to make good?”
“George,” Sid said. “I never
saw the bet.”
“Does Biancci know that?”
Sid nodded. “He came to
collect last night,” he said.
T}red shrugged sadly and
walked out, closing the
door slowly behind him.
Sid lay motionless for
a while, running his eyes from
the ceiling to the window and
then back again to the ceiling.
Finally he sat up. Sitting on
the bed, he could reach out
and open the drawers of the
bureau. He opened the top one
and took out a pint bottle. It
was cheap whisky, and he
made an unpleasant face when
he swallowed.
He stood up, sighing, and
padded across the floor to the
bathroom where he had a long
drink of water. The water was
warm and he grimaced again.
Watching himseit m tne mm i or,
he scraped the heel ot nis hand
against the dark bristle along
his jawbone, ran some hot
water into the basin and
shaved. Then he went back to
the bed.
He was just dozing off when
Fred came back with George.
“Hullo, George,” Sid said.
George was a tall boy, much
taller than Fred, but thinner.
Fie went to technical college
during the week and worked
on Saturdays for Sid. As Sid
watched him cross the room,
he wished there was something
he could do. But there wasn’t.
He had been thinking about it
all night, and there wasn't any-
thing he could do.
“Sid,” George said. “What
am I going to do?”
“I don’t know,” Sid said.
“Maybe you’d better go some-
where for awhile.”
George shook his head. He
looked tired, and his dark eyes
were filled with a baffled look
of misery.
“Are you sure you took the
bet?” Fred asked.
“I took it,” George answered.
“He gave me the money in a
white envelope. I remember
that, but I can’t remember
what I did with it.” He shook
his head in bewilderment and
turned to Sid. “Sid, I didn’t


HEIGHT OF
EFFICIENCY
in the
MW IMPROVED
po
m
m
r 15
liquid.
INC
MU* 1
C Hf
1,1 ..I*-”'
I GALLON
CUtMICAL
' 'PttenQ.vfo' Brand df PhenothlixTn*
m
08t
N
. : :
sss
W
• •
PHENOVIS
ONE DRENCH t
MAJOR WORMS
Extensive research by ICIANZ scientists has proved that increased purity in
Phenothiazine and a finer particle size give maximum efficiency against a wider range
of worm parasites.
These discoveries have now led to the release of a new, improved formulation of
THfcNUVU>'„
INSIST on the NEW PACK
ta ... from your local ICI dealer
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
2«^HE34X.543» v
L
RHENQVJS
SUPttmNE
QUALITY
mi


give it to you, did I?” he asked
hopefully.
“No,” Sid said. “I remem-
ber the ones you gave me. His
bet wasn’t among them. You
don’t think I’d pocket it, do
you?”
“I didn’t mean that,” George
said, and paused despondently.
“I wish I could remember. It
got busy suddenly and I don’t
know what I did with the
envelope. I must have lost it
or given it away by mistake.”
“Sid,” Fred said, “call up
the syndicate. 1 bet it's up
there somewhere.”
“No,” George said. “I didn’t
phone it in.”
“Call them anyway,” Fred
insisted.
“Call up Biancci for me,”
George said. “Try and explain
it to him.”
“It won’t do any good,” Sid
said.
“Do it anyway, will ya?”
“All right,” Sid said.
'T'he two boys left, and Sid
stood up and began dress-
ing. When his shirt was but-
toned, he rolled up his sleeves
and walked out. The long
room downstairs was empty.
Fred sat on a corner of one
of the tables in the back talk-
ing to George, who was
hunched up furtively on a
bench against the wall.
“I’m going to call,” Sid said.
“Thanks, Sid,” George said.
“And talk to Biancci for me.”
Sid nodded and started for
the door. “Don't sit on the
tables,” he said to Fred as he
walked by.
When he was outside, Sid
stopped briefly to look up at
the sky. For some reason he
didn’t know, he wanted it to
rain. Next door to the snooker-
room was a small cafe. Sid
nodded to the proprietor as he
walked to the telephone on a
back table. He sat down care-
fully, looked out to the front
of the shop for a moment and
then stared at the phone. After
a while he left the cafe.
Two young boys were using
the first table when Sid re-
turned to the snooker-room.
He eyed them closely as he
walked to the back where Fred
and George were waiting.
“I called the syndicate,” he
said. “They never got the bet.”
“How about Biancci?”
George asked. “Did you talk
to him?”
“I couldn’t get him,” Sid
said. He stared down into the
boy’s eyes. “He’s on his way
over here, I suppose,” he said
slowly. “He’ll bring some
friends.”
George didn’t speak, and in
the silence the noise of an on-
coming train grew very loud.
Sid turned and looked down
at the boys playing on the first
table. He asked Fred, “School
kids?”
“I don’t know,” Fred said.
“Better tell them to blow,”
Sid said. “The coppers might
be around.”
Fred walked quietly toward
the front. Sid watched him
move away, waiting until he
was out of earshot before turn-
ing back to George.
“You’d better beat it,
George,” he said.
George shook his head. “No.
I don’t want to run away.”
“They can get pretty rough,”
Sid said.
“I’ll talk to them,” George
said. “I’ll try to explain.”
“They won’t listen,” Sid said.
George looked down at the
floor without answering. He
made no move to go.
Sid studied him for a
moment. “My brother has a
house on the Blue Mountains,”
he said. “You could go there.
He’ll look after you for
awhile.”
George didn't move.
Sid said, his voice
growing sharp. “You’d better
go. I’ve seen them work. They
could kill you easy. I’ve seen
them go very close to it be-
fore.”
George's face grew white
and he shifted nervously.
“They worked someone over
right outside,” Sid said. “They
beat him to a pulp. I’ve seen
them do it, George.”
George looked up at him
quickly. For a moment, Sid
thought he might decide to go.
Then George shook his head
vehemently.
“ All right, George,” Sid said
unhappily.
He squeezed George’s
shoulder and then went up to
his room. When he got there,
he removed his shirt and shoes
and lay down on the bed.
A long time passed before
he heard footsteps rushing
up the stairs, and Fred burst
into the room.
“They’re outside,” he said.
“They just drove up.”
Sid didn’t move. “Where’s
George?” he asked slowly.
“He’s downstairs.” Fred
looked at Sid. “Aren’t you
going down?”
“There’s nothing I can do.”
“But they’ll bash hell out of
him.”
“Sit down Fred,” Sid said.
Fred sat down. He watched
Sid steadily.
“Just relax,” Sid said.
“Smoke a cigarette and relax.”
There was a long, intense
silence. Then they heard a
door close downstairs. There
was the barely audible sound
of footsteps. They stopped,
and for several minutes all
that could be heard was the
faint chatter of voices in the
snooker-room. Then, suddenly,
there was a cry that broke
off abruptly, followed imme-
diately by a loud scramble of
footsteps that slowed gradually
and disappeared. The silence
that followed was complete.
Even the chatter was dead.
Fred was sweating profusely.
Streams of perspiration flowed
freely down his face, and the
neck of his shirt was soaked
with a dark, spreading stain.
“I can’t hear anything,” he
said to Sid in a hoarse whisper.
“I can,” Sid said. “I can
hear you sweating.”
Fred ran his hand over his
forehead and looked at the
hand with surprise. He pulled
out a handkerchief and
mopped his face and neck
thoroughly. When he was
through, he held the handker-
chief between his hands in a
crumpled ball.
Minutes passed. The door
downstairs opened and closed.
Fred rose quickly and moved
to the side of the window. A
car door slammed, and seconds
later a car started-up and drove
off.
Fred turned from the win-
dow. “They’re gone,” he
whispered hoarsely.
“All right,” Sid said. He sat
up and reached for his shirt.
“We’ll go down now.”
TZJred moved across the room
■*- slowly, scarcely breathing,
and started downstairs.
Sid stood up and walked to
the door. He stopped there
and listened to Fred’s foot-
steps going down cautiously.
Then he closed the door and
turned the latch. He bent down
to the floor, reacnea under the
rug, and withdrew a small
white envelope.
He had found it buried in
his pocket the night before.
Somehow it had got separated
from the other bets that
George had given him, and
when he had discovered it, it
was already too late. He had
been thinking about it all night
and all morning, trying to
figure out if there was any-
thing that could be done and
realising all the time that there
wasn’t.
Five - hundred pounds was
due, and someone had to pay
for the mistake. It was best
the way it had happened, he
kept telling himself, because
he was a soft, middle - aged
man, and George was young
and in good health. He felt
very sad about it, because
George was a good, honest kid,
and Sid liked him a lot.
Standing by the door, he
opened the envelope and
looked at the money inside.
It contained fifty-pounds, and
Sid stared at it for a moment,
deliberating.
Then he walked slowly into
the bathroom and tore it up,
money and all.
He watcher the pieces care-
fully as they fell into the bowl,
but when he came back into
the other room he felt no
better.
Ke unlatched the door and
went downstairs.
DEAD SEABIRD
Oh down ! What hideous (esthete has lodged this thing,
In the rain, upon the grey immaculate sand
Has disposed the still-bound head, each dense black wing
Like the last gloved grace of a gentle arrested hand —
Has lit now imagination s lambent flare
To achieve in blackness the shattered cry,
To sense the close immensity of that air
Where yet, impossibly, this bird must fly ?
Death is a crab that craftily leaves his home
To recover in so many different ways
The unhusked life from the chill and glittering foam,
To recede beyond our vision with its gain
Leaving a remnant on which the living gaze
Blindly, across the steep and marshalled rain.
victoria.
NOEL MACAINSH.


Meet the Modern Archers
SYDNEY BOWMEN
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
Walking near Cooper
Park, at Double Bay
in Sydney, on a Sun-
day afternoon, my
wife and I were intrigued to
see targets set-up on the green
and archers of both sexes
shooting arrows at them.
One should not, of course, be
surprised at anything encoun-
tered in the way of games and
pastimes in Sydney. The place
is big enough, and cosmopoli-
tan enough, to accommodate
almost every taste in entertain-
ment, from Kriegspiel to girl-
watching ; and, doubtless, in
odd corners of our far-flung
suburbs, odd and exciting
things undreamed of by most
of us go on all the time.
But, coming on it unexpect-
edly when walking through
what we had thought familiar
country, the scene, with its
unmistakable echoes of every-
one's childhood reading, was,
if not exactly surprising—one
knew in a dim way that people
practised archery in Australian
parks—at any rate intriguing.
A matter of contrasts.
Down there, beside the spark-
ling Harbor, the white flying-
boat base, and antlike traffic
scurrying along New South
Head Road —here, in a scrap
of green frowned on by a small
cliff of Hawkesbury sandstone,
and, more emphatically, by
taller cliffs of brick, men and
women, whatever their new-
fangled gear, amusing them-
selves much as King Harry’s
men must have done on Eng-
lish fields long before Agin-
court; without which practice,
from childhood up, the Eng-
lish archers could hardly have
wreaked such havoc.
The Sydney archers were
shooting at distances of 60yds.,
50yds. and 40yds., and, up the
hill a bit, cars swooped along
Edgecliff Road to Bellevue
Hill and such places; a few
minutes’ walk away was all
the bang and bustle and
Sunday-afternoon litter of
Bondi Junction, a painfully
modern Sydney suburb . . .
r T'HE modern archers weren’t
wearing any particular
costume. A girl in shorts,
another in a bright dress, men
in grey trousers and sports-
shirts, a couple of T-shirts and
panama-hats.
Some had quivers for their
arrows, some stuck them in a
hip - pocket; which style,
glimpsed from the corner of
the eye, caused a double-take
—a couple of feathered ends
of arrows sticking out behind
like that gave the impression
that a fellow-archer had hit
off-target.
It was one of those blue-
and-gold days Sydney turns on
between seasons, warm walk-
ing, cool in the shade. We sat
down and lit-up. Neither of
us knew anything about
archery, but the scene was an
attractive one ; and, anyway,
we felt like a smoke and a
spell.
Against the blue sky there
was an occasional silver twink-
ling, all that the eye—my eye,
anyway—could follow of the
flight of arrows, when the sun
flashed back from them ; and
there' they were, firmly em-
bedded in the target of
compressed straw (which, I
was told later, would stop a
bullet just as efficiently)—
not in the chap’s pants, after
all.
From our seat on the side-
lines we could hear no sound,
and this silence, and a certain
deliberation in the archers’
movements, gave the scene a
touch of ritual. An archer
took his stand, bent his bow,
released it, and an arrow
appeared in the target. Some-
where between, a contrast to
these almost static studies, a
sort of silver mote, a small
bright dart, travelling fast.
Sometimes, when the sun
caught the flying arrows fairly,
there was a shower of silver
darts; sometimes there was
none.
Two women at the far side
of the field appeared to be
very good. They were shooting
from what seemed a fair dis-
tance, and they looked as
though they didn’t know how
to miss the target. Presently,
leisurely, like golfers, they
walked back to a more distant
mark, bent their bows, and —
flash—fresh flocks of feathers
were grouped around the
centre of the target.
A/fAKiNG a cautious detour, I
approached . a small
group bent over scoring-cards.
One of them was L. J. Drake,
vice-president of the club, the
Sydney Bowmen.
L. J. Drake, I was to learn,
was a person well worth run-
ning into. Besides his position
with the Sydney Bowmen, he
is president of the Archery
Association of Australia, and
also of the State body. What
he didn’t know about archery
seemed hardly worth knowing
—yet he referred me to greater
authorities the American,
Elmer, and the Englishman,
Ascham. These gentlemen,
tracked-down in the reading-
room of the Public Library,
proved full of rare and curious
information.
But all this came later. For
the present, we continued our
walk, having learned that our
opinion of the lady archers’
ability was sound—one, Mrs.
Drake, was an Australian
champion.
Sunday, having learnt
' that the Sydney Bowmen
meet there weekly, I went to
the park again. The “park” is,
in fact, the Lough Playing
Field, separated from Cooper
Park by a road, with a big old
stone shed at one end and a
club building which the
Sydney Bowmen share, in
winter, with a women’s hockey
club —at the other.
The Sydney Bowmen,
formed in 1923, is the oldest
(<Continued on page 44)


PITY THE POOR M.P.!
When the Richardson report on
Federal Parliamentary salaries
was released Norman L.
Cowper, a member of the com-
mittee, described criticisms of the pro-
posed increases as “contemptible and
unreasonable.” He advised members of
the public to get a copy of the report
and “study it thoroughly to understand
the issues behind the rises.”
Since then many people have studied
it, and, apart from Federal M.Ps., very
few can have put it down with the same
feeling of wholehearted approval which
it apparently inspired in Mr. Cowper.
The committee adopted certain
standards and principles to guide it in
assessing a scale of salaries and allow-
ances. These standards and principles
were not necessarily those that would
have been used by a committee of differ-
ent composition, nor even the same as
would have been adopted by the members
of the same committee working inde-
pendently. They cannot therefore be
considered as perfect; nor can conclu-
sions based on them be beyond criticism.
In approaching its task (says the report)
the committee did not feel itself
“fettered or committed on any question
by the opinions and recommendations
of the previous committees, or by price-
or wage-indicators.” In a way this
betokens a broadminded outlook, as
two of * the three committeemen (Sir
Frank Richardson and Mr. G. E. Fitz-
gerald) were also members of the 1955
committee, which fixed salaries at a figure
it then considered “proper, having regard
to all the circumstances” and allowances
which it felt were “a fair estimate of the
needs of the average member.”
Basis of Reckoning
TTnfettered by past standards, the
committee considered the level of
“remuneration in the public service, the
universities and in commercial and
industrial enterprises” and in the profes-
sions, and decided that the majority of
members were at the present time getting
a smaller income than would have been
the case had they stayed out of politics.
Most people find this hard to accept.
And most members, if examined under
the influence of a truth-drug or a lie-
detector, would be more likely to agree
with the public than with the committee.
While there will be general agreement
that “it is contrary to the interests of
the community that members of its
Parliament should be underpaid to the
point of financial embarrassment,” there
will be general that mem-
bers can be described as being underpaid
to the point of financial embarrassment
when their current emoluments include:
Salary, £2350 a year; allowances,
£6OO-£BOO a year; travelling allowance,
£3 13s. 6d. a day; full-time services of a
typist-secretary; free office accommodation,
with phone and telegram facilities; travel-
warrants to and from Canberra; travel-
warrants to other parts of Australia and
(within limits) its territories and other privi-
leges major and minor.
The report says that “the time which
a member must devote to his duties is
not to be measured by the number of
sitting-days of the Parliament.” That is
so, and it’s just as well for the M.P.,
otherwise he would have to be classed
as a casual employee and would qualify
for payment on only about 60 days a
year.
But in trying to prove that the M.P.’s
job is a full-time one, the report protests
too much. It is all very well to say that
“members should, and most do, spend
much time in considering bills and in
general reading and study to fit them-
selves for discussion in the party-room
and debates in the House.” Let’s assume
they do, though the standard of debates
suggests that there’s plenty of room for
improvement in their homework. How-
ever, plenty of men in professions or in
private employment do the equivalent of
that, after office-hours, in order to keep
themselves abreast of developments in
their calling.
A Formidable List
HPhe main item that makes the M.P.’s
job a full-time assignment is not, it
appears, the Parliamentary sittings, nor
his travels round* Australia “to acquire a
first-hand knowledge of developmental
and other problems,” nor even the work
he may do on Parliamentary committees
(which entails extra pay):
When a member is not in Canberra, it
is expected that he shall be available in his
electorate by day, by night, and at week-
ends, to receive and deal with requests
about housing, telephones, old-age and
invalid-pensions, the maternity bonus,
repatriation, sales-tax, posts and telegraphs,
jobs, tariffs and import-licences, immigra-
tion, income-tax, the leave, pay and con-
ditions of servicemen and innumerable
other matters.
This is a formidable list, and no doubt
some members have been approached at
one time or another on all of these sub-
jects. There is also no doubt that some
members go to great trouble and are very
helpful to people who seek their aid. But
is this really the sort of thing the com-
munity pays its legislators for? And
does it require any great skill or ability?
Most of the inquiries concern Govern-
ment departments. Is it right that a
person who approaches his local member
should have an advantage over the one
who goes straight to the department?
(Perhaps he doesn’t, but there seems to
be a widespread belief that he does.)
Extending the list of extraparlia-
mentary duties, the report says:
A member is expected to attend every
function of any importance within his
electorate —to open or be present at the
opening of new factories and public works,
bazaars, fetes, flower-shows, baby-clinics,
school prize-days, parents and citizens’
association meetings, progress association
conferences and bowling, cricket, football
or other sporting-club meetings whether on
a week-day or on a Saturday or Sunday.
Again the list is formidable, but it can
hardly be said to add up to a full-time
job. How many baby-clinics does the
average M.P. open in a year? Or even
in a lifetime? How many Parents’ and
Citizens’ Association meetings does he
attend? (If he’s a parent he should attend
some in his private capacity anyway.)
The report doesn’t admit that it is
possible for a member to attend any of
these functions out of public spirit or
through a sense of civic responsibility.
It regards all such activities as part of
his job. Worse than that, it regards them
as work performed in order to keep his
job.
Unless he holds a “safe” seat, he dare
not neglect them. Even when he represents
a “blue-ribbon” electorate, his failure to
render them may lead to his losing the
party pre-selection or being unseated by an
Independent.
Wives, Too
r T'HE member’s wife, too, is apparently
A regarded as being devoid of any
charitable motives:
She is expected to attend many functions
in the electorate with him, and to represent
him at others during his absence in Can-
berra. As one member said, “Attending
official functions in connection with Red
Cross, hospitals, crippled children, churches,
schools, social clubs and so on is a regular
part of the life of a member’s wife.” She
is elected to office in various charitable and
public organisations, and is expected to
take a leading part in their activities.
Other women serving on the same com-
mittees as the member’s wife, having no
husband’s constituency to nurse, may be
presumed to be giving their services out
of charity; the member’s wife, if the
report is taken literally, is a moral con-
script, forced into charitable work in
order to help her husband hold his job.
The committee’s approach to all these
activities (and the expenses and dona-
tions which go with them) seems alto-
gether wrong. If they are expenses
necessary to help the member hold his
seat then they are not electorate-expenses
at all, but electoral expenses. As such
they give the sitting member an advant-
age over his opponents at election-time
—at the taxpayers’ expense.
What is needed is not an incjease in
members’ pay but a thorough review of
the so-called electorate-duties of mem-
bers. The committee speaks of some of
the “demands” on members as “politi-
cal blackmail,” yet it accepts the fact
that they have to be paid, and it recom-
mends bigger allowances to enable them
to be paid.
If Federal members of all parties value
their dignity and their reputation they
will shelve the Richardson report and
get together in an attempt to define just
what extra-Parliamentary duties a com-
munity is entitled to expect from its
elected representatives. And if they think
they are being “milked” by their con-
stituents they should have the courage
to say so, instead of being content to
pass the cost on to the taxpayer.


start the dau right!
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Randwick Finale
Three-year-old Wiggle had
two chances of becoming the
greatest prizewinner for her
sex in Australian history when
she went to the start at Rand-
wick last Saturday for the
A.J.C.’s Adrian Knox Stakes,
worth £3026 to the winner, and
£BOO for second. Third prize,
£4OO, which she won, took her
total to £30,375. First-money
would have put her well ahead
of Evening Peal’s £30,744
(11 wins), but Wiggle was a
spent force long before the
end, and could only struggle
home in third place ahead of
a moderate, Placer, and about
17 lengths from the winner,
Melbourne’s champion dis-
tance filly Chicola.
Consistent Morning Gleam,
who hadn’t been trained for
the race, was a good second in
the Knox. She could be a
top winning mare in the com-
ing season. Maybe the stable
will now spell her and set her
for the distance events of the
1959-60 season.
Flight (24 wins) remains in
second place on the list of win-
ning mares, with £30,627.
Wiggle (14 wins) is third with
£30,375, and Tranquil Star
(23 wins) fourth with £29,690.
Chicquita’s 16 wins and other
placings earned her £28,285.
Wiggle is booked to go to
America a couple of weeks
hence.
Though Wiggle was an odds-
on proposition and thought to
have a mortgage on the Knox,
she actually hadn’t any form
at a mile-and-a-half, nor had
Morning Gleam, for that
matter. On the other hand,
Chicola had, of course, won
the Oaks at that distance, and
also had won the V.R.C. St.
Leger (1| mile) by a dozen
lengths on a heavy track, and
Randwick course was dead for
the final day’s racing. Going
to the post for the Knox she
looked much better than before
the A.J.C. St. Leger, and she
had thousands of backers, who
believed she would prove, what
she is, a grand staying filly.
The Knox win brought
Chicola’s earnings to £12,026,
and her owner, Mrs. J. Foster,
and trainer, R. Chapman, will
set the filly for the big races
of the spring, including the
two Cups. She is by Empyrean
(imp.) from Libyan Lass by
Caithness (imp.) from Manya
by Manfred (Caulfield Cup
winner and second to Windbag
in the Melbourne Cup).
A.J.C. Queen Elizabeth
Stakes winner Caesar had
scored twice at w.f.a., beating
Lord at 10 furlongs at Warwick
Farm and Baystone and Prince
Darius at 12 furlongs in the
Autumn Stakes at Randwick.
On form he stood right out
from his opponents, so the
heavy support for New
"He fights well!"
Zealander Ark Royal seemed
surprising, especially in view
of his poor form on this
Sydney trip (anyway, he
finished last). Caesar had one
of the easiest wins of his
career, and seems all set to
continue the winning-run when
the distance events come round
in the spring. He defeated his
three-year-old brother Valerius
by eight lengths, with Baystone
a poor third. Valerius also is
likely to prove a good distance
performer in the new season.
T. J. Smith, trainer of
Caesar, also won the Queen
Elizabeth Randwick Stakes last
year, with Tulloch (9 to 1 on).
Jan and Playboy were other
Smith-trained winners of the
race, which formerly was
knowm as the A.J.C. Plate, and
had been run at varying dist-
ances, from three miles to 14
furlongs.
• • • •
The A.J.C. Fernhill Handi-
cap is Sydney’s first mile race
of the season for two-year-
olds, and its winner is
generally regarded as having
Derby prospects. Latest
winner, Sea King—raced -by
E. B. and J. Kornhauser and
trained by T. J. Smith —
defeated his stablemate,
Wolarma, and Bold Guise,
running out the mile in fine
style. Both the winner and
the runner-up were bought in
New Zealand by their trainer.
Sea King is by Ruthless (imp.)
from Balgowlah, and a staunch
background indicates that he
will see the Derby distance out.
Balgowlah is by Bulandshar
(imp.) from Penelophon by
King Mark (imp.). His
brother, Felise, won races in
New Zealand at up to 10
furlongs, while his half-
brother, Manakau, was well
known on Melbourne courses,
where he won at up to 13
furlongs. .
Wolarma (8.13) carried 81b.
more than Sea King, and on
the dead track his performance
was sound. A gelding, he’s by
Gold Nib (imp.) from Mon’s
Pride, winner of races in New
Zealand. She’s by Admiral’s
Luck (imp.) from Mon Acre
by Acre.
Woolsack, easy winner of
Randwick’s Rous Handicap,
was capably handled by midget
apprentice Clarrie Hunt, who
can ride at 6.7, and who is
one of the most promising of
the apprentices. He’s with W.
Chaffe. The favorite, Second
Earl, had every chance, but
may have been a little under-
done. He could win on a
firm track. His N.Z. form is
first-class.
At his previous start three-
yead-old Edspell’s saddle
shifted during the race, but
all going well with him in the
Randwick Novice, he won well.
Favorite Leukos, however,
looked an unlucky second. He
struck interference soon after
the start.
Torrid, who won his first
race when he cleared out with
the Second Novice, is a four-
year-old New Zealand-bred
gelding by Mid-Day Sun
(imp.) and Fifth Note.
Despite costly defeats at two
prior starts, In Love had solid
backing for the Dangar High-
weight, and he easily defeated
the stablemates Mighty Missel
and Plymouth. El Rocco, with
N. McGrowdie in the saddle,
won the Final Handicap, sur-
prising most punters, though
that seemed poor judgment, as
the gelding had finished a good
third three days earlier in the
Randwick Centenary Plate to
Flash Gem and Turkestan.
Darby Munro trains El Rocco,
who had shown previous
ability on a rain-affected track.
Sydney Cup winner On Line’s
dam, Straight Putt, was bred
in England in 1946 and im-
ported to Australia three years
later. The five - year - old
Chateau Roussel (imp.) geld-
ing, starting at 9 to 2 and
ridden by apprentice B. How-
lett, downed 2-to-l favorite
Foxmara and 15-to-l Bardshah
(A.J.C. St. Leger winner) in
3.30.9. A rain-soaked track
was responsible for the slow
time. Howlett is apprenticed
to On Line's Randwick
trainer, Frank McGrath.
Todman won the A.J.C.
Champagne Stakes two years
ago, ridden by N. Sellwood.
Noholme, brother of Todman,
kept up the family tradition in


Diyorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME ■COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorc*..
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO DOUGLAS DIXON MUIRHEAD late
of Mosman—TAKE NOTICE that
DAPHNE PEARL MUIRHEAD has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. SSB of
1959 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 12th day
of June 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
this year’s Champagne, which
he won easily on the third
A.J.C, day, beating Prince Lea
and Tamberan. On a dead
track Noholme (also ridden
by Sellwood) took 1.13.6 for
the six furlongs. Todman, on
a fast track, ran 1.10, which is
the race record. Both carry
S. T. Wootton’s colors —Tod-
man, of course, has been off
the scene for many months—
and both are trained by M.
McCarten. The Champagne
has been a good race for Sell-
wood, with four wins, the
others being on Knave and
Cortauld.
After a succession of
failures, three-year-old Stream-
ster surprised in the Second
Maiden at Randwick, winning
in a photo-finish from Native
Land, who was backed as a
certainty on the strength of a
brilliant track-gallop, and was
unlucky not to have landed the
money—he was second-last at
the half-mile, and was forced
to the outside of the field on
the home-turn. Streamster is
by Helios (imp.) from Penghat
by Dhoti (imp.) from Riviera
by Portofino (imp.), and is
closely related to former good
Melbourne performer Cromis.
At the Randwick yearling-
sales several trainers were
anxious to secure the colt by
Star Kingdom (imp.) from
Fleeting Glance, and, after
many quick bids, M. McCarten
went to 3600gns. The breeder
of the youngster —T. L. Flynn
of Oakleigh Stud, Widden
Valley (N.S.W.). then
announced that his reserve was
4000gns., and McCarten
decided to meet the reserve on
behalf of one of his clients.
The strikingly handsome
yearling is closely related to
the 1956 Melbourne Cup
winner Evening Peal. Fleeting
Glance, who didn't race, is a
three-quarter sister in blood
to Mission Chimes, the dam of
Evening Peal. Fleeting Glance
is by Le Grand Due (Fr.)
from Blue Sox by Double
Remove (imp.) from Box On
by Magpie (imp.). Windbag,
another winner of the Mel-
bourne Cup, also figures in the
family-lines.
« • •
First bid for the colt by
Star Kingdom (imp.) from
Sweet Adeline —a splendid-
looking youngster was
3000gns.; he finally went for
7100gns. to a patron of the
T. J. Smith stable. Sweet
Adeline is by Dogger Bank
(imp.) from Lady Adornment
by Vaals from Adornment by
The Nut (imp.). She won a
couple of races on Sydney
tracks from a few starts. The
high-priced colt is related to
such past stayers as Kinder-
garten, Golden Souvenir and
Sir William. Melbourne
trainer S. Murphy paid
6100gns. for the Star Kingdom
(imp.)-Persist colt, a brother
to the speedy Endure. Persist,
a grand mare, won £18,221 in
stakes.
* * *
At Caulfield
Trainer Peter Muschialli
can have no regrets that he
went to 4500gns. at the Sydney
sales last year for the colt by
Star Kingdom from Canvas
Back who races as Royal
Artist (Muschialli was acting
as agent for Mrs. L. Ralph).
Royal Artist has raced four
times, and his only defeat was
in the spring, when Fine and
Dandy outpaced him —and
there’s no disgrace in that.
Latest and best of Royal
Artist’s three wins was in the
six-furlongs Orrong Two-year-
old at Caulfield last Saturday.
Burton never let the colt off
the bit, to stroll in five lengths
clear, in the smart time of
l.llf. There are plenty more
wins ahead of him.
Muschialli was back in Sydney
for this season’s yearling-sales. The
underbidder, at 7000gns., for the
Star Kingdom colt which Tommy
Smith bought for 7100gns., he sub-
sequently successfully bid 4200gns.
for another Star Kingdom
youngster.
Each heat of the divided
Maiden Two-year-old at Caul-
field proved a trap for run-of-
-mill racegoers, though stable
connections did well. Having
only his second start, Blue Lap,
a Blue Booklet-Laputa gelding,
narrowly landed a betting-
plunge which had reduced his
price from 50 to 1 to fifteens.
Blue Booklet is best known so
far through his son Webster,
and Jit was Webster’s owner,
E. J. Gorman, who bred Blue
Lap at his Deniliquin (N.S.W.)
property. He leased him to
J. Maguire and B. Lopez.
There was a full brother to
Webster in the second division
of the Maiden, but that young-
ster, Bluemel, was always at
the' rear. This heat was won
by Victorious, having his first
start in a race, but trainer Theo
Lewis must have tried the
youngster well to inspire the
confidence in the betting which
reduced the price from twelves
to sixes. By Oleandrin from
Flying Colours, the colt is a
half-brother to one of Vic-
toria’s best gallopers of recent
years, Golden Doubles.
If there were a bit more size
to the four-year-old Delville
Wood gelding Famed he might
have proved a crackerjack
galloper. Little more than
pony-size, he finds it hard to
win against top-class horses,
but as soon as the stars spell
he can be placed to win good
races. He took the Eclipse
Stakes —regarded as a consola-
tion race —in the spring, and
on Saturday compensated for
.his second to Webster in the
Sandown Cup on Easter Mon-
day by winning the 12-furlongs
Glenhuntly Handicap. He had
to survive a protest, and his
backers can thank Bill Wil-
liamson for his skill in keeping
him off the second horse,
Desert Court, when his mount
tried to duck-in close to home.
It surprised most racing people
to learn last week that Williamson
is off soon to ride in Malaya. But
that is Williamson’s way. Most
unostentatious in all things, he
completed his arrangements quietly,
without fuss. He will be gone
only three months, but even for
that short period Victorian trainers
will miss his skill.
If ever a horse deserved a
change of luck it was Smokey
Jane, who broke through for
her first win in the 10-furlongs
Neerim Handicap for three-
year-olds. She had raced 25
times before Saturday, and
recorded 11 minor placings.
Smokey Jane, who’s by Smokey
Eyes from Bolero, was bought
for 300gns. by her trio of
owners, trainer Joe Mulcahy
and Americans C. B. Barns
and A. Baker. At the time
the Americans were here work-
ing for the Utah Construction
Co. Baker is still in Australia,
working on the King Street
bridge job, but Barns is some-
where in South America.
• * * •
Ron Hutchinson had been
riding Count Tassia, winner of
the Moonee Ponds Handicap
at the Valley and the Victoria
Handicap at Flemington last
month, but because of his
connection with “Bon”
Hoysted he agreed to ride High
Gun for that trainer in the
sf-furlongs Caulfield Sprint.
Hoysted then decided to
scratch High Gun, and
“Hutchy” endeavored to regain
the mount on Count Tassia.
However, trainer Theo Lewis
had engaged Bill Williamson
for the Count, so Hoysted
decided he owed it to Hutchin-
son to start High Gun. And
High Gun won narrowly from
Count Tassia!
Count Tassia’s recent wins indi-
cated that he is a colt out of the
ordinary; even so, High Gun is a
pretty good sprinter, especially at
Caulfield, where he won the six-
furlongs Hawksburn Handicap in
February in the very smart time of
l.lOj-. It may not be wise to con-
clude that Count Tassia has been
overrated.
The good Adelaide mare
Cherete, who holds the five-
furlongs record in her home
State, and who has won a long
string of races in Adelaide,
Melbourne and Brisbane, is
back to top form. She won
the Fashion Stakes at Flem-
ington on Easter Monday, and
followed-up with a win in the
Brighton Welter at Caulfield.
-She had the steadier of 9.9 on
Saturday, but finished with
great dash to win nicely. It
was a run to make trainer Jack
Godby look to Brisbane’s rich
winter sprint-events.
* * *
*‘Bullaway”: Juvenile filly
Lady Zona, first of the Carbon
Copys to race in Perth, did
not take long to win, and a
rosy future seems assured for
this daughter of the Merry
Mathew mare Lady Hatteras.
Carbon Copy has now had
winners in all Australian
States.
• « • •
“P.0.M.C.”: Could be (as
suggested on this page some
months ago) that top Sydney
and Melbourne jockeys regu-
larly strike trouble when riding
in opposite capitals mainly be-
cause of the opposite direction
of running races. For instance,
riding clockwise, most squeez-
ing and crowding comes on the
left side of the jockey who
favors the rails, whereas, riding
anti-clockwise, the opposite
is the case. In short, the Syd-
ney or Brisbane jockey visiting
Melbourne or Adelaide (or
vice versa) finds himself much
in the same position as the
motorist used to right-hand-
drive cars suddenly driving a
left-hand vehicle at speed
in traffic travelling in the same
direction as himself. Extra
care is needed to avoid bother.
Williamson, a superb rails-
rider in Melbourne, has in


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
the past run into bother on
Sydney tracks, incurring repri-
mand and suspension.
“Punt”: Connections of
horses as well as punters
are questioning the justice
of fantastic hairline photo-
decisions. After all, general
opinion would probably favor
a dead-heat as the fairer ver-
dict when the margin is too
fine to be determined in half-
inches.
* * *
Trots
Champion Sydney pacing
mare Sibelia downed two other
champions, Fettle and Cadu-
ceus, in Harold Park’s Free-
for-All last Friday night—her
first win for her new trainer-
driver, Merv Adams. Fettle
started slowly, and was
chopped back when Field Dixie
moved across in front of him,
but Ron Hayes drove him hard
and inside the furlong he had
drawn level with Caduceus,
who had led from the start.
The first lap was run in the
fastest time ever at Harold Park
(lmin. lj-sec.). Fettle burned-
off Caduceus as the field turned
for home, and looked set for
a win, but Sibelia then drew
level, and though Fettle, who
had run one-wide for the whole
journey, would not give in, the
mare, sitting in behind on the
rails, drew away nearing the
post to win by half-a-length,
with Caduceus a further length
away. The race was reckoned
a full-dress rehearsal for the
£SOOO Lord Mayor’s Cup (run
next Saturday night), in which
both Fettle and Sibelia (off
12yds.) meet Caduceus 24yds.
better.
Giving age and a start to
most of her rivals, 12-year-old
Victorian mare Carlotta's
Pride won the £IOOO Trotters’
Cup from Jenny and Para Rip
—her sixth Trotters’ Cup win
and her 32nd win in all. Her
driver, 22-year-old Neville
Garth, is Melbourne's leading
reinsman this season, with 22
winners to date.
Starting favorite at 2 to 1
on, Goulburn colt Amazing
Vale went down by three-
quarters of a length to Riverina
three-year-old Sandy Volo in
the Country Three-year-old
Championship (ll| furlongs).
Western Districts rep., Big
Time, was two-and-a-half
lengths away third. In pacing
the journey in 3min. 12|sec.
Sandy Volo broke Diabolo
Don's 1957 record by fsec.
Sandy Volo, who was going
away at the finish, comes well
into calculations for the N.S.W.
Derby, the heats of which will
be run on April 24, with the
final on May 1.
* * *
Other Sports
Maybe Souths would have
been beaten anyhow in their
Sydney League match-of-the-
day against the pretty good
Norths, but any chance the
Rabbit-ohs had was cooked by
early injuries; still, Norths
weren’t really at their
strongest, either, and knew it
in the scrums. Ex-South back
Honeysett very neatly scored
two of North’s five tries,
capped by seven (also neatly-
done) goals from Carlson.
Norths, 29 ; Souths, 9. The
Southerners will probably do
better. Like Norths, St. George
also comfortably made the
tally three in a row for the
season so far, slaughtering
Parramatta 46-7. In something
more like a bit even, up to
the last quarter of an hour or
so, Canterbury-Bankstown had
their first win, at Balmain’s
expense, 21-17; a splendid
game by winning captain
Brian Davies. Full-back Darcy
Russell, with two tries and five
goals, scored 16 of West’s 25
points in downing Newtown
(18). In Sunday’s match at
the Sports Ground Manly beat
Easts 29-18.
• • • •
Two of Australia’s best post-
war Rugby League footballers,
both captains of Australia,
have changed States. Clive
Churchill, one of the finest
fullbacks the code has known
—he is one of two League men
to have three tours of Eng-
land (1948-52-56) and also
went to England and France
for the World Cup in 1954
and who has played all his Syd-
ney club football for Souths,
is now captain-coach of
Northern Suburbs in Brisbane.
Last year’s Test - captain,
Queensland and Brothers’ (Bris-
bane) front-row forward Brian
Davies, who has been a regu-
lar member of Australian
teams since 1950, is now cap-
taining Canterbury (Sydney).
* * *
Saturday’s Rugby Union
didn’t produce anything to
fill even patriots with optim-
ism about the English visit.
Last season’s premiers, Gordon,
were beaten in a good, solid
game by University, 15-8 ;
Eastwood just got there over
at St. George, 12-10 ; Northern
Suburbs walloped Easts, 11-3;
Manly did ditto to Drum-
moyne, 19-12 ; and Rand-
wick overran Parramatta,
22-3.
“Selja”: One of the British
Lions picked to tour Australia,
English breakaway Peter
Robbins, broke his leg in a
game after selection. He
played for England in the Test
against the Bob Davidson
Wallabies at Twickenham on
Feb. 1, 1958, when England
won 9-6, scoring the winning
try in the last minute of the
game—or, rather, three minutes
after the bell should have rung,
according to McClenaughan,
the Australian manager, and
other spectators.
* * *
“C.A.A.”: Prahran, one of
the oldest clubs in the V.F.A.,
has been expelled because it
has been unable to guarantee
the use of Toorak Park (its
h.q.) for the second sixteen.
The oval has been let by
Prahran Council to the Rugby
Union every second Saturday.
In its place Sunshine, from the
Metropolitan League, has been
admitted. Sunshine has been
waiting eight years to join the
V.F.A. ; but it seems a bit
tough on Prahran.
“Rossby”: Hurt in a car-
accident in Launceston, and
possibly unable ever to play
again, 21-year-old Haydn
Bunton, son of the former
Australian Rules star, triple
Brownlow Medal and triple
Sandover Medal winner Haydn
Bunton, who was killed in a
road-accident in 1955. Young
Bunton’s football career has
been somewhat chequered. He
represented S.A. at the 1956
carnival, in his third season of
Adelaide’s League football,
and was selected in the Aus-
tralian team chosen after the
carnival; later in the year he
was runner-up to Dave Boyd
for the Magarey Medal. Nor-
wood then appointed him
captain - coach, but North
Adelaide refused to clear him,
and he “sat out” 1957. In 1958
he moved to Norwood as
captain-coach, and was selected
in the S.A. carnival side. This
season he was to have been
captain-coach of Launceston.
* * V
“K.R.”: Though dismissed
for 25 and being 89 behind on
the first innings, Paddington,
usually led by Arthur Morris
(Arthur wasn’t playing in this
game), defeated Cumberland
outright in a race against the
clock in the second-last round
of Sydney’s cricket. Benaud,
chasing points, closed his side’s
second innings at 4-24. On
rain-affected wickets there were
some very good bowling-figures
recorded in the last two rounds
—in the last round Benaud,
against the strong St. George,
rounded off a very successful
season for himself by taking
8-36. Sydney’s premiership
was won by Bankstown-
Canterbury, its first win since
its entry in 1951-52.
“Sandgrove”: B. H. Pairau-
deau, 27, has become the
second West Indies Test-
cricketer to settle in N.Z. —
wicketkeeper S. C. Guillen was
the first. A bespectacled right-
handed opening-bat from
British Guiana, Pairaudeau
was vice-captain of Atkinson’s
1956 team in N.Z., and went to
England with the 1957 West
Indies team. Guillen, who
settled in N.Z. in 1952, played
in Tests for his adopted
country against the 1956 West
Indies side, as well as in the
three representative matches
against Australia in 1957.
“Veryl”: Two big pro-
fessional events were decided
in Victoria recently. The
£lO,OOO “Milk Six,” the first
professional six-day cycling-
race to be held in Victoria
for nearly 50 years, was spon-
sored by the Vic. Milk Board
to celebrate its 25th anniver-
sary. It was won by Sid
Patterson and Keith Reynolds,
from the Tasmanian team of
French and Murray. Patterson,
now Australia’s top pro. cyclist,
looked like being forced out
through injury in the early
stages, but battled through.
The other event was, of course,
the Stawell Gift, which has
been held every Easter since
1878 ("except for 1942 to 1945).
The 1959 winner of the 130yds.
sprint was 21-year-old North-
cote (Vic.) runner George
Treacey, off ll£yds., with
Hawthorn V.F.L. footballer
Ray Yeoman, off
second.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
INDONESIAN COMMUNISM
Tn the course of an article
•*- analysing Indo n e s i a’s
struggle for political unity, a
writer in the British monthly
“The World Today” notes that
“in the post-war period Com-
munist tactics in Indonesia
have been the same as in the
other countries of South and
South-east Asia”:
“In the immediate post-war
years in that part of the world
there was a disposition to
rather violent «action, and a
succession of armed uprisings
occurred. In Indonesia there
was an uprising in September,
1948, which had some chance
of success, because some Army
units were under Communist
influence and lent their sup-
port to the rebels ; they cap-
tured Madiun, a big town in
the centre of Java, and
formed a provisional Govern-
ment.
“The Madiun rebellion,
crushed in the same way as
the uprisings in India and
Burma, caused the Communists
to lose much influence in
Indonesia. Many people con-
sidered that Communist action,
at a time when the country was
struggling against the Dutch,
was an anti-national act. Many
of the Communists lost their
lives in that rebellion, while
others fled abroad.
“At the beginning of the
1950’s the Communist parties
in all the South and South-east
Asian countries changed their
tactics. They proclaimed their
loyalty to the existing national
States and invited all strata of
society, including the national
bourgeoisie, to collaborate with
them. At present their appar-
ent goal is to capture power
in a legal way—that is to say,
by way of elections.
“In Indonesia they have
accepted the nationalist slogans
and tried to capture the
dynamic forces of Indonesian
nationalism. They have devel-
oped a large and very efficient
party organisation, with
numerous offices throughout
Java. They have great
influence in the trade-unions
and in several professional
organisations.
“In the elections of 1955 the
Communist party emerged with
39 seats as the fourth-strongest
party in Indonesia; the
Masjumi [Moslem party] and
the P.N.I. [lndonesian
Nationalist Party] obtained
57 seats each, and the Nadhatul
Ulama [also a Moslem party]
46. In the provincial elections
at the end of 1957 the Com-
munists greatly improved their
position, particularly in Central
and East Java. In Jogjakarta
they emerged as the strongest
London “Daily Express.”
“ONE MORE AIR JOURNEY, HAROLD, AND IKE
WILL THINK HE’S GOT FOSTER AT HIS SIDE AGAIN.”
party, and in many localities
they obtained an absolute
majority.'
“Their main gain was at the
expense of the P.N.1., which
for the last few years has pro-
fessed a programme of col-
laboration with the Com-
munists. It seems that they
have a chance of coming to
power by way of the next
general elections, which, due
to take place in September,
1959, have recently been post-
poned till 1960.
“If they came to power
their economic policy would
probably be similar to that in
other Communist countries.
The main emphasis would be
on industrial and military
investments, and considerable
hardships would be imposed on
the population in order to
carry out this policy.
“Thus it is likely that a
Communist regime would be
associated with certain reduc-
tions in the standard of living
of the present generation.
Unfortunately not many people
among the nationalist elite
realise these implications of the
Communist method of indus-
trialisation.
“A political factor apart is
the Army. The Army has very
great influence in all fields of
social life. Many regions have
been for years under military
administration because of the
imposition of martial law. The
Army has interfered in many
activities —for example, in
organising action against cor-
ruption in the Administration.
“The recent campaign
against the rebels in Sumatra
and Sulawesi has shown that
during the last few years great
progress has been made in the
training and modernisation of
the Army. There have been
some rumors that the Army
may take responsibility for
political power in the country,
as has recently happened in
some other Asian countries.
“There are, however, many
people who consider that the
role of the Army is not to
introduce dictatorship in Indo-
nesia, but to be a safeguard
against any coup d’etat organ-
ised by an internal force
directed from abroad. If,
therefore, the Communist party
one day reverts to its ‘Madiun’
tactics, it will have the Army
against it. The political future
of Indonesia depends on the
degree to which the Com-
munists will be able to use
their present extremely advan-
tageous situation to penetrate
the Army.
“However, the main require-
ment dictated by the economic
situation is to put a stop to
any further struggles for power,
and to strengthen the Govern-
ment in order to enable it to
undertake the unpopular
measures necessary for Budget-
ary retrenchment, an increase
in productivity, and the
carrying - out of investment
plans.”
Commenting on Dr.
Soekarno’s request for the
National Assembly’s approval
of a return to the 1945 Con-
stitution —which would put the
main power into the hands of
the President “Manchester
Guardian” observes that “now
the whoie conception of guided
democracy seems to have
changed ; instead of seeking to
bring the Communists into
government it seems designed
to keep them out”:
“The greater the theoretical
power of the parties, the greater
the practical power of the
Communist party. So there has
been a move away from party-
dominated government.
“In Parliament half the seats
or more are to be occupied by
representatives of ‘functional
groups,’ not parties. A new
suspicion of Communism does
not, of course, solve all Indo-
nesian problems. Indeed it
does not in itself solve any
of them; there is a gigantic
task of organisation and recon-
ciliation to be done, and it
may be beyond the power of
President Soekarno.
“Nor does the new guided
democracy involve the relin-
quishment of claims to Western
New Guinea, or the. end of
hostility to the Dutch. Only
recently a new law nationalis-
ing their estates was pro-
claimed. But it is a warning
against leaping to conclusions.
Mr. Dulles, however anxious
he may have been a year ago,


was wise to let the Indonesians
deal with the Communist threat
in their own way.”
China and Japan
■Crom London “Economist”:
“Peking has once again
decided to tackle the problem
of its relations with Japan, but
the way it has gone about it is
hardly friendly to the present
Japanese Government. Leaders
of the Japanese Communist
party arrived in Peking on
February 23 ; nine days later
the inevitable joint declaration
expressed concern at the
‘current situation in Japan, and
especially at the fact that
American imperialism, work-
ing hand-in-glove with Japanese
reactionaries, is plotting to
revise the U.S. - Japanese
security treaty.’
“The declaration suggested
that a peace-pact and non-
aggression treaty should be
concluded between China and
Japan; echoing Mr. Khrush-
chev’s proposal for a peace-
zone in the Far East, the
Japanese Communists demand-
ed ‘the establishment of a zone
free of nuclear weapons in
Asia.’
“It was further proposed
that diplomatic relations and
close economic and cultural
exchanges should be estab-
lished between China and
Japan. The responsibility for
the absence of sdch ties,
according to the declaration,
‘lies entirely with the reac-
tionary ruling clique in Japan.’
“On the day this declaration
was published another Japanese
delegation left for China —this
time a Socialist mission, which
was treated to similar proposals
in Peking. In view of these
developments, the newly
formed Cabinet Council on
Foreign Affairs in Tokyo
declared that Japan should
proceed cautiously in the
matter of improving relations
with Communist China.
“Since Mr. Khrushchev first
put up his idea of a ‘zone of
peace’ in the Far East, a
Chinese campaign of this kind
has been expected in Tokyo.
Although the Japanese press
has speculated on the possi-
bility of Ambassadorial talks
between the two countries, and
although even Mr. Fujiyama,
the Foreign Minister, seems to
be of the opinion that now is
the time for his Government to
negotiate, it seems extremely
unlikely that an official meeting
will take place.
“The present Chinese cam-
paign looks as if it is primarily
intended to bring about a
change of Government in
Japan. The Chinese Commu-
nists take it for granted that
a Left-wing Japanese Prime
Minister would come to
Peking to negotiate; their
problem is to get him installed
in Tokyo.”
To which the following,
from London “Time and Tide,”
might serve as a footnote:
“The man who has perhaps
done more than any other to
counter the Communist plan
for Asia —that of creating
division among the free nations
—is Prime Minister Kishi of
Japan.
“ ‘Japan has proved that the
free-enterprise system can work
in Asia. There is no need to
adopt the Communist short-
cut,’ says Mr. Kishi. Japan has
big corporations and village
and cottage-size industries, and
her experience of the latter
London “News Chronicle.”
WORRYING PIMPLE.
can be of help to the new
nations of Asia, which must be
developed if Communist unrest
is to be forestalled.
“Premier Kishi visualises
close co-operation with Britain,
the U.S.A.-, Australia, Germany
and other highly industrialised
countries. Some Asian
countries, however, still in-
fluenced by war-time memories,
have been suspicious of Japan’s
projects.
“But Mr. Kishi’s historic
goodwill-tour last year, when
he apologised for Japan’s
expansionism and for the
suffering that it had caused,
and agreed to pay reparations
to South-east Asian countries
concerned, had a profound
effect in healing old hatreds.
As a sequel, Japan has offered
assistance on terms of equality
to these countries and has
suggested a pooling of common
experience in a spirit of inter-
dependence.”
Australia and Russia
■p eporting the decision of
Australia and Russia v to
resume diplomatic relations,
the Australian correspondent
of London “Economist” asks,
“Who stands to gain more
from the return of missions?”
“Though Australia treated
the Russian withdrawal with
bland unconcern, it would
seem to have a small some-
thing to gain from the new
agreement. The first possi-
bility is an increase in trade.
This was not discussed by Mr.
Casey and Mr. Firubin, but
they did agree that expert talks
should be held later this year.
It would be rash, however, to
expect much to come of these.
“For one thing, though the
presence of Russian buyers at
Australian wool-sales may give
a slight boost to prices, the
Russians have presumably
been getting all the wool they
needed through intermediaries.
The other reservation is that
Australian trade is sewn-up in
trade-agreements and import-
licensing, and it is difficult to
see where the Russians would
get the reciprocity that they
would expect if they were to
buy more from Australia.
“A second possible advanta-
age to Australia from a
resumption of full diplomatic
relations is the opportunity for
direct talks about Antarctica.
The Russians established a
base in Australian Antarctic
territory during the Interna-
tional Geophysical Year, all
in the interests of science, of
course. Now they show no
intention of going and see no
reason to do so, since they do
not recognise Australia’s
claim to the territory and,
what is more, know that the
United States does not recog-
nise it either.
“Whether the reopening of
the Canberra Embassy will
make any difference to this
attitude seems doubtful. But
even if the immediate advant-
ages appear small, the return
of the diplomatic missions is
to be welcomed —at least if the
conditions of their return
(which are a closely guarded
secret) will prevent them from
indulging in more espionage
than is customary.”
French Elections
"P ditorial comment on the
results of the French
municipal elections, which
showed that the U.N.R.
(Neo-Gaullist party) has
suffered a setback since its
triumph in the national elec-
tions last year, and that the
Communist party has made a
spectacular recovery:
Edinburg h “Scotsman”:
“France has wakened-up to the
same old realities as before and
finds herself divided as before
—as all democracies more or
less are—into Right and Left.
It is all the more surprising
in view of the increasing con-
formism of the organs of
opinion, induced largely by
petty persecutions and threats.
“The war in Algeria, which
many in voting for de Gaulle
thought they were voting to
end, is still going on. The Pinay
Budget has meant austerity,
above all for those who could


least afford it. What will
Messrs. Soustelle and Debre
do now that the chauvinist
fervor of last year, which
carried them to power, is on
the wane and disenchantment
has set in? What will General
de Gaulle do? The pendulum
has probably only begun to
swing away from them. They
must either swing with it or
face growing unpopularity.”
* * *
‘‘Manchester Guardian” :
“The explanation seems to be
partly the normal swing of the
pendulum, and partly the dis-
gruntlement of many voters at
the stiff financial measures
introduced while General de
Gaulle’s Government . had
dictatorial powers. What seems
to be lacking is any strong
sign that the electorate is
beginning to be dissatisfied
with the new system of
government, root and branch.
“Nor does the heavy cost
of the Algerian war appear to
have sunk in. The mood of
irritation may yet pass away.
The most alarming thing about
the elections is the ease with
which Socialists have formed
alliances with the Communists
in some (not all) districts. Is
this the beginning of that pro-
cess of grinding a Socialist
Opposition between upper arid
nether millstones, which has
already proved so dangerous
elsewhere?”
* * •
London ‘‘Economist’': “The
immediate- political impact of
the changed mood will; be
small. „ The Constitution-
makers of last year insured
against . swings of the pendu-
lum. The President has wide
powers. There may be no
fresh popular vote for years ;
the creation of ‘substitutes’ for
deputies drastically reduces the
scope for by-elections. The
new local councillors will be
called this month to elect the
Senate. The extension of
majority voting will prevent
the new Senate from being too
tilted to the Left. It may be
less ‘G au 11 is t’ than the
Assembly, but it will not be a
real counterpoise. And in any
case Parliament has now much
less importance.”
The same : “One paradoxical
result of the municipal elec-
tions will be to strengthen still
further the General’s control
over the Neo-Gaullist deputies
of the Lower Chamber. The
U.N.R. must now be even
more frightened of a dissolu-
tion which would force it to
face the verdict of the people.
On the other hand, the ruling
circles cannot remain un-
affected by such unmistakable
signs of the changing political
temperature (a recent opinion-
poll shows that only 55 per
cent, of the people still have
confidence in the Government).
“There may be pressure on
the General to introduce some
more popular measures. But
the tests will no longer be
electoral or Parliamentary. It
will be necessary to watch the
factories and trade-unions care-
fully to see whether the Fifth
Republic is not slowly heading
for a. clash with a popular
front.”
* * *
“New York Times” : “There
is nothing in the electoral world
so consistent as the French
voter. He changes allegiance
very slowly. France has had
something between 2,000,000
and 2,500,000 militant Com-
munists since the war. When
non-Communist sympathisers
are added the figure can be
doubled or tripled. When the
floating voters are disgruntled
they are inclined to vote Com-
munist or Socialist.
“This is what seems to have
happened in the municipal elec-
tions. There is probably more
significance in the gains of the
Socialists at the expense of the
Radicals than in the con-
tinued strength of the Commu-
nists. In any event, there is
nothing to get very excited
about.”
Ike No Longer Liked
VX/RITING about President Eis-
W enhower in London “Time
and Tide,” Francis Russell,
American freelance political
journalist, claims that “no
other President since Harding
has seemed so eager to escape
the symbolism of his office”:
“The folk-image of Mr.
London “Evening Standard.”
“AND WILDERNESX IS PARADISE ENOW.”
Eisenhower, both as General
and President, is so different
from the man, and so persistent,
that only the shock of the
sputniks has been able to
challenge its hold on the
American people. Since then
the actual Eisenhower, the
irresolute non-leader, has
begun to supersede the image
of the wise, protecting leader-
father.
“One of Mr. Eisenhower’s
first acts on becoming President
was to announce that the
responsibility for initiating
legislation rested with Con-
gress. As he should have
known, that theory had been
put into practice just once —
in the Johnson era following
the Civil War —and the results
were then disastrous both to
the Government and the
country.
“Whenever decisions, domes-
tic or foreign, have loomed up
he has disclaimed responsibility
for them. Recently, in regard
to the problem of the Quemoy
Islands, Mr. Eisenhower
explained that as a military
man he preferred to deal with
events as they occurred. This
is scarcely a way to win wars
or peace, but it has been the
hall-mark of his Presidency.
“Basically Mr. Eisenhower
lacks both policies and con-
victions. Until seven years ago
it could not be determined
whether he was a Republican
or a Democrat. It cannot now
be determined how he feels.
He passively accepted the
greatest peace-time inflation in
the country’s history ; with no
sense of urgency he has
watched the United States slip
behind in the missiles-race ;
the peace that he made in
Korea led obviously to the
debacle in Indo-China.
“As Supreme Allied Com-
mander he was more a co-
ordinator than a General, a
public-relations man at the
highest level. He filled a cere-
monial role there as an affable,
optimistic, democratic people’s
General; an Ike in a head-
quarters where everyone was
Bill and Joe.
“Perhaps the cruellest exhi-
bition of Mr. Eisenhower came
when permission was given to
quote him verbatim at his


Missinsr Friend
TO JAMES BAXTER ROBERTSON,
formerly of Cann River in the State of
Victoria.— TAKE NOTICE that your
wife CORAL EVA ROBERTSON ‘ has
instituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion Un-
less you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the 11th day
of May 1959 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs.—J. COLIN STEDMAN &
CAMERON, of 339 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Gillette
is the only way to get a decent shave
......
m
m
m
fgjjjjiSrr
m
What a clean feeling when you shave with water... lather...
and a Blue Gillette blade in a Gillette one-piece razor! A man couldn't
ask for a more refreshing, a more satisfying, a smoother shave.
Here is the Gillette Light weight the right razor for you if you have
a sensitive skin or prefer a light razor. It is one of the Gillette
3-weight Trio. The others are: Medium weight, for average skin and
beard; Heavy weight, just right if you have tough whiskers or
like the heft of a heavy razor. Each is in a handy' travel case
with a convenient dispenser of Blue Gillette blades
and a compartment for used blades.
Available now at your favourite store only 15/- each.
2SS
BIAS*
press-conferences. There in
that impromptu setting the
flabbiness of his thinking was
all too visible —the sentences
that could not decide to be
sentences, the subjects in lost
pursuit of their predicates, the
banalities.
“One cannot dislike Mr.
Eisenhower personally. One is
also sorry for him, for his
illnesses, for his distaste for
Washington, for the relentless
decisions that persist in
threatening his peace of mind.
But it is becoming more
glaringly apparent to more and
more Americans that he, ailing
and tired, should never even
with reluctance have accepted
a second term. Those of his
advisers who, out of ill-con-
sidered expediency, urged him
to it performed no service for
the President or his country.”
Soviet Morale
THrom an article by Drew
Middleton in “New York
Times":
“The people of the Soviet
Union are not prepared
psychologically for war. But
most Western diplomats believe
they could be prepared in a
week’s propaganda - offensive
because they know little of the
Western world.
“It would not be a question
of induc'ng the people to
believe that their Govern-
ment’s course was correct.
There are only two ways of
doing things—the Soviet way
and the wrong way. The object
would be to convince people
that they could win the war.
“Some foreigners find some
comfort in the Communist
party’s stranglehold on free-
dom of the individual. The
Communist-party system, they
insist, is responsible for the
red-tape that hobbles Soviet
progress. The West would
really be in trouble, they say,
if the natural wealth of the
country and the courage and
endurance of its people were
exploited by a system in which
individual enterprise was
encouraged and mental flexi-
bility rewarded.”


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE JOSEPH late of 216
George Street Windsor.—TAKE NOTICE
that DULCIE YVONNE JOSEPH has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. '3991 of
1958 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three' years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 10th day of June 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. EDWARD
PRANCE, MELVEY & CO., Solicitors,
11c Castlerragh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EMILIE HELENE KONQPKG of
late of 8 Weston Street, Dulwich Hili.
—TAKE NOTICE that BRONISTAW
KONOPKO has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2832 of 1958 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by the
10th day of June 1959 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. EDWARD FRANCE,
MELYEY & CO., Solicitors, 11c Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
active archery club in Aus-
tralia. There are 40 members,
and the youngest member,
Kathleen Barker, is eight.
Kathleen’s parents are mem-
bers —in fact, archery seems to
be pretty much a family sport.
Archery clubs, Mr. Drake
explained, are normally small.
And in Australia, anyway, it
is an all-the-year-round sport.
To a question about bows,
he said: “Come over and I’ll
show you.” We walked across
to where four archers were
shooting what is called an
“American round.” Thirty
shots at each of 60yds., 50yds.
and 40yds. They were then
shooting at 40yds.
Mr. Drake picked up a bow
as someone finished, and held
it out. It was- a metal bow,
weighing around 141 b. ; a long
way from the heavy bows car-
ried by the English archers in
the French wars. But, still,
efficient.
“That girl shooting now,”
Mr. Drake said, “could prob-
ably out-shoot most of the old
English archers. Only because
of modern equipment, how-
ever.”
The fair-haired girl shooting
was his daughter Donella,
aged 14, Australian champion
in her division (intermediate)
in Melbourne in 1953 and
again in Sydney in 1955. She
had also won every State
championship in her division
since 1952.
The Australian champion-
ships were held in Sydney at
Easter.
A bow’s “weight” (I learnt)
commonly means the
number of pounds required to
draw the bowstring the length
of the arrow; and this natur-
ally varies with individuals.
The two men shooting with
Mrs. Drake would average
351 b., I was told ; Mrs. Drake
was using a bow with a 271 b.
weight.
The bow I was looking at
was steel—actually two golf-
clubs flattened and joined by a
special process. A cork hand-
grip and a sort of graduated
sight—which is only a rough
guide, someone said; not
really an equivalent to a rifle’s
—and string of Irish linen.
“As it has been for hundreds
of year s,” Mr. Drake
remarked.
The flat-bow has superseded
the long-bow in archery. The
theory behind the flat-bow is*
that tension is concentrated in
a limited area, not over the
full curve of the bow. The
man who hit on the idea (in
the late 1930’5) was an Ameri-
can, Dr. Hickman, who later
came-up with a more lethal
weapon—the bazooka!
But the flat-bow can be
deadly, too. British com-
mandos began using them in
raids on the French coast in
1940, Mr. Drake said. “Some
of these bows were made for
British commandos”—and they
were also used in various
“undergrounds.” Great num-
bers of the Swedish-steel flat-
bows were smuggled into Den-
mark. A target the size of a
man wouldn’t be hard to hit
at close range, and there would
be little noise. By the time
the victim was warned there
would be two, three arrows on
their way.
'T'he arrows I saw are made
of an alloy, mainly
aluminium, with the traditional
three feathers.
The cock-feather, at right-
angles to the nock (a word
which seems to have several
meanings, but here means the
notch for the string at the end
of the arrow), and the two
hen-feathers, which, according
to the definition I found in
Archery, by Reichart and
Keasey, are “the two feathers
which are not at right-angles
to the nock.”
Most of the books I con-
sulted used the terms “cock”-
and “hen”-feathers without
comment, but the great R. P.
Elmer, I noticed, in his Target
Archery, is a bit contemptuous
of the latter term, which, he
says, is based on a misunder-
standing of the word “cock” —
which meant, applied to the
feather on an arrow, not
gender but action: as in cock-
ing a gun.
Elmer’s book, I understand,
is the standard modern work
on archery. The Sydney Bow-
men speak of it simply as
“Elmer.” But, someone re-
marked, the times have caught-
up with Elmer, too. He doesn’t
have anything on fibre-glass,
which is one of the new
materials being used in bows.
He has a good deal on
almost everything else, includ-
ing feathers. Which, as Mr.
Drake had informed me, are
usually turkey-feathers, true
flight - feathers, carefully
trimmed. Elmer goes on to
discuss the various methods of
preparation, and warns
sharply that it is not to be
supposed that two feathers
from the same side of a par-
ticular bird will balance
evenly—that is, on the left and
right side of the arrow. They
must come from opposite sides,
although not necessarily from
the same bird.
Elmer also explores the
possibilities of feathers from
birds of swift flight, such as
eagles, quoting earlier
opinions . . .
Our to get back to the bow
in modem warfare—both
the flat-bow and the cross-bow
were used by Australian com-
mandos in jungle-fighting, Mr.
Drake told me; although he
couldn’t say to what extent
they were used.
Cross-bows are more accu-
rate over a short distance —a
cross-bow can be sighted like
a rifle. Most of the Australians
who use them make their own.
Barrie Drake’s, for instance,
has a stock made from Pacific
maple. Barrie, who is 26 and
another member of this family
which seems to take archery
championships as a matter of
course, is considered Aus-
tralia’s leading cross - bow
expert.
His father said that America
and Germany are the leading
cross-bow countries; America
because every branch of
archery has had enthusiastic
followers there for some years,
and Germany—partly, at least
—because of the post-war ban
on firearms.
Despite the popularity of
the metal bow, several of the
Sydney Bowmen were using
wooden bows and the
favorite wood is still yew.
Not Spanish yew, but Ameri-
can yew. Other good woods
for bows are osage orange (a
mock-orange tree growing in
central U.S.A.), lemonwood
and American myrtle. Aus-
tralian woods tried so far have
not been very satisfactory.
Anyone with the equivalent
of an import-licence in Henry
VIII’s day (Mr. Drake told
me) was obliged by law to also
import Mediterranean yew,
whatever the cargo landed.
TThe old English authority,
Roger Ascham, to whom
Mr. Drake referred me, I
found a delight to read, even
if one had only the faintest
interest in archery. William
Laws Rushton, a barrister
and scholar whose Shakspeare
An Archer was published in
1897, maintains that Shak-
speare was steeped in Ascham’s
Toxophilus, and borrowed
from it.
It’s likely enough. Shak-
speare must have devoured
textbooks on all sorts of sub-
jects, and wasn’t above lifting
from here and there. In any
case, Rushton makes his point
that Shakspeare must have
known a lot about archery
(but so, apparently, did almost
everyone in his time), and in
so doing illuminates quite a
few passages by explaining the
technical background of cer-
tain words.
Explaining the different
kinds of shooting, Mr. Drake
mentioned “Clout-shooting”—
shooting from a range of, say,
180yds. (for men) at a target
on the ground. This is vir-
tually the old battle-drill —
shooting up, and down, on the
mass.ed enemy. Harold,
remember, got an arrow in the
eye that way at Hastings, and
William the Bastard of
Normandy became King of
England . . .
“Clout-shooting? ”
“It’s in Shakspeare,” Mr.
Drake said.
And so it was, in several of
the plays—e.g., Henry IV,
Part II:
Shallow: Death is certain.
Is old Double of your town
living yet?
Silence: Dead, sir.
Shallow: Jesu, Jesu, dead! —he
drew a good bow; and dead!
he shot a fine shoot: John ot
Gaunt loved him well, and betted
much money on his head. Dead!
—he would have clapp'd in the
clout at twelve score . . .
Double, Rushton is inclined
to think, was a real archer, a
sort of Dr. Grace of the period,
with whose prowess with the
long-bow Shakspeare would
be familiar.
The arrows of those days
were pretty weighty instru-
ments, varying, probably, for


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutioni throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O'SUUJVav
PTYITD
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
T tie grams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
“ There s a gleaning of commonsense in all this
rocket talk. It’s now suggested that women—not
men—be fired into space!"
particular purposes, but fol-
lowing the general line of the
war-arrow, which could crash
through coats-of-mail.
ushton remarks that in
modern archery a good
long-distance shot would be
100yds., "although this is some-
times exceeded.” Therefore, he
argues, old Double’s “twelve
score” —240yds. —was not to
be sneezed at. No wonder
John of Gaunt backed him.
As far as distance goes, that
is frequently exceeded by
modern archers. But, Mr.
Drake pointed out, they use
specially designed bows, of the
short Asiatic type, and special
arrows. Shooting purely for
distance is called flight-
shooting. The Australian
record of 629yds. is held by
Dr. J. L. Boorman, of Cess-
nock (N.S.W.).
But in 1750 a Turk shot an
arrow 970yds. “Plenty of
Turks have shot more than
nine-hundred yards,” Drake
said. Ascham had a word on
them:
Shootinge is the chyefe thinge
wherewith God suffereth the Turke
to punish our noughtye lyvinge
withall.
"D ushton reminds us that the
Elizabethan air was
vibrant with the twang of bow-
strings: regular practice with
long-bows had been ordained
by many Acts of Parliament
from the time of Edward I.
One Act of Henry VIII
must have been a formidable
piece of legislation. It seems
that in Shakspeare’s England
every male not physically
incapacitated, between adoles-
cence and 60, with the excep-
tion of “spiritual men,” judges
and high fiscal officials, was
required to practice with the
long-bow at specified intervals
under pain of fairly stiff
penalties.
Further, laws against such
games as bowls seem to have
been drafted with a view to
the “lower orders” having no
choice but to occupy their
leisure in becoming proficient
bowmen —apart, of course,
from breeding young bowmen.
Physically, they must have
been powerful men. It seems
that a bowman’s training
began when he was little more
than a toddler, and progressed
with bows of graduated
strength. The discipline, fol-
lowed practically from infancy,
with a good physique to start
on and good tucker to sustain
it, must have produced some
hefty yeomen.
T2VEN now the amount of
exercise involved is not
negligible. At Double Bay, on
the rounds I saw, a man would
walk from 14 to 2 miles and
pull his bow an average of 90
times a round. That would
be the equivalent of lifting
whatever the draw-weight of
his bow might be —say, 351 b.
—multiplied by 90, in 14 hour
(the average duration of a
round).
This was target-shooting, of
which there are various kinds:
the American round (30 shots
each at 60yds., 50yds. and
40yds.), the Southern Cross
(90 shots at 60yds.) and others.
The targets are 48in. in dia-
meter. Targets for clout-
shooting have a diameter of
48ft.
Apart from these, and flight-
shooting (for distance), there
are all sorts of plain and fancy
archery, including shooting at
a wand 6ft. high and 2in. wide
from distances from 100yds.
(for men) to 60yds. (for
women), and field-shooting, a
modern version of the old
roving, in which the archer
has to make snap judgments
of distances.
Also, for those with a taste
for it, there is hunting. Les
Jones, whom I met over after-
noon-tea, spends his vacations
shooting wild pigs and kanga-
roos around Moree and
Nyngan (N.S.W.).
For this he uses wooden-
shafted arrows with broad
hunting-blades—these arrow's
will kill a pig quicker than a
bullet will, he said—and glass-
composite bows with a
drawing-weight of not less
than sUlb. Ranges are from
Byds. to 30yds., which, with an
angry wild boar intent on
decreasing the distance, can
call for a steady hand. Pigs,
even domestic pigs, can move
very quickly over short
distances.
Another member I met over
a cup of tea was Alan. Connell,
Australian champion in 1956,
who was down from Captain’s
Flat, where he is manager of
the local branch of the A.N.Z.
Bank.
Indeed, the Sydney bowmen
I met seemed to come in all
sizes and occupations. Les
Jones is an electric-welder,
another member is a truck-
driver, two are engineers, John
Plowman (son of Sir Claude,
the yachtsman) is a TV floor-
manager for the A.8.C., L. J.
Drake is N.S.W. manager of
the Higher Appointments
Office of the Commonwealth
Employment Service . . .
Steel bows vary in price from
£lO to £l5, the total equip-
ment costing less than £2O (Mr.
Drake said). A bow and a
set of arrows should last “quite
a few years.”
Apart from the quiver—
which is not used by everyone
—the other items of equipment
are finger-stalls, and a leather
wrist-guard to take the slap of
the string.
Archery isn’t an expensive
sport, I was told. Sydney Bow-
men’s fees are 2gns. a year,
with five-bob a day shooting-
fee —the club pays Waverley
Council £2 a day for use of
the park.
Apart from materials men-
tioned, synthetics such as Tox-
horn, made specially for bows,
are now used: but the prin-
ciples of laminated layers,
whether in wood or other
materials, derive directly from
the horn-and-sinew bows of
Asia. . .
When I left they were still
at it. The occasional shimmer
of silver. The odd, graceful
gesture as an archer, without
taking his eye from the target,
plucked an arrow from the
quiver slung behind him, lean-
ing slightly back, and fitted it
to his bowstring. The feathered
ends sticking out.
John of Gaunt would have
approved.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Homes for the Aged
Not all Victoria’s homes
for the aged are like the
one “Permie” describes (B.
.11/3/’59). Greenvale Village,
out past Essendon, is every-
thing he’d like to see.
When I saw it two years ago
there were two large chalet-
type buildings with private and
double rooms, each opening
onto a glassed-in sun-lounge
with ample space, fresh air,
sunshine and heating. Each
unit had modern dining-rooms,
and a kitchen where all who
felt inclined —men or women
—were encouraged to assist in
serving meals, washing-up,
dusting or cleaning silver.
There was a beautifully kept
parkland where the oldsters
could have a garden of their
own if they so wished, and
there was ample staff to clean
and care for anyone who fell
ill.
There were also two cottages,
one of which had private rooms
for four single women and a
modern communal kitchen/
lounge/dining-room. A married
couple shared the other cottage.
Each house had its own septic
toilet and bathroom, and all
buildings were * attractively
furnished and decorated with
pastel paints, folk weaves and
flowered prints. There were
cosy rugs on the floors, plenty
of linen and warm blankets;
and well-cooked food, with a
choice to suit all tastes.
Such was the “public” sec-
tion of the village, and for this,
including medical care, the
residents were asked to pay
£2 12s. 6d. out of their pension
of £4. Clothes were obtainable
from the store.
Residents of the private
section lived in a beautiful
brick building. They had single
rooms and adequate bath-
rooms, toilets and showers.
Each section had a kitchenette,
lounge, dining - room and
solarium. There were bed-
lamps, basins with hot and
cold water in each room, and a
plug for wireless, etc.
There was a craft-room with
sewing-machines, and all
kinds of equipment and
materials were available for
the residents to make things
for themselves or to sell if
they wished. An occupational-
therapist was employed to
teach those who hadn’t had the
leisure or the opportunity to
learn these things before.
Leisure was also made
pleasanter by a weekly card-
party, TV, concert-parties and
a weekly picture-show. There
were cane lounges and sun-
shades on the lawns, where
croquet or putting could be
practised.
Besides the ordinary meals,
residents got an early-morning
cup of tea ; morning and after-
noon tea, and a “cuppa” and
biscuits before, bedtime. The
“Did you knock ?”
public patients got the same
food as the private ones ; the
latter paying what they could
afford —from £5 10s., in the
case of a war-widow, up to
£8 Bs. Naturally there is a
long waiting-list for entry.
Recently I was sent a copy
of Greenvale’s own newspaper,
and there seems to be plenty of
constructive advancement.
Victoria also has the Brother-
hood of St. Lawrence settle-
ment at Carrum Downs, where
many old folk live in pretty
little cottages or modern flats ;
and the Masonic Homes at
Prahran. The aim of these
new places is “to add life to
years, not years to life,” and
they are certainly doing it.
Their motto is: “Old age is a
habit busy people do not have
time to acquire.”
For those who are getting
on in years but are unwilling
to go into homes the best solu-
tion seems to be the small
houses and flats that many
local councils are building so
that elder citizens don’t have
to leave their own districts.
Even with the utmost care and
comfort, people can be lonely
away from their families and
lifelong friends.
We have the right places for
the old but not enough of
them. Perhaps those who
criticise would like to be a bit
constructive and start some-
thing in their own district. They
can get plenty of advice on
how to go about it, and it’s a
worth-while project. Gwen
M. Hart (Q.).
N. Election
Result of the N.S.W. State
election has, to my mind, con-
firmed two important points.
Firstly, newspapers do not,
politically, sway the average
citizen to any marked degree ;
and, secondly, promises by
politicians on the hustings are
treated with great reserve —past
experience has made the public
wary.
Leading newspapers generally
launched a strong attack on
the Cahill Government in
fact, the “Sydney Morning
Herald” concluded its final
leader before election-uay with
the words “let us get rid of
the rascals.” Perhaps the
attack was too severe, and the
voters a very Australian
attitude leaned towards the
Premier, thinking he was not
getting a fair go.
Opposition promises touch-
ing on education, transport,
land-tax, etc., were widely
publicised. But voters seemed
to consider in some obscure
way that a concession in one
place must be made-up by an
added impost in another, so
in the main they decided to
allow the status quo to con-
tinue.
Such things as political
appointments to friends, un-
pleasant happenings in the
police-force, and heavy losses
on transport undertakings had
little or no affect on voters.
Cahsll rested on achieve-
ments helped a little, per-
haps, by redistribution of
boundaries and won the
election. The task for the
Opposition is to find other
approaches.—C.B.M. (N.S.W.).
Horror Films
The screening of horror-
films at several Melbourne
suburban theatres in the early
hours of Victoria’s Labor Day
holiday has rightly come in
for criticism.
Film-shows not being per-
mitted on Sundays in Victoria,
these screenings started at
midnight or a few minutes
after ; but at least one theatre
is said to have opened its doors
to patrons —including . many
teenagers and young children—
at 10 p.m. on Sunday.
That films were deliberately
chosen to make-up horror-
shows is evident from the titles
and the blood-curdling blurb
with which they were adver-
tised ; that they would inevit-
ably attract audiences of im-
pressionable young people who
should have been in bed at
the time of screening must have
been obvious to the promoters.
It’s not surprising that
youth-movement workers in
one of the areas concerned
asked their State M.P. to
register a strong protest in the
House. This he did, saying
that such screenings could
have nothing but a degrading
effect on all who saw them,
and that “if it had not been
for the tolerance and judg-
ment shown by police the
situation at one screening
might well have got out of
hand.”
Admittedly, TV has made
the going tough for Melbourne


m
■
IS
wmm
W
Sg
I .
m
iiililltii
® s; '
O
* ■']
m
:
Teamster... 1959 model
Listen carefully, in the silence that surrounds old books, old letters, to the
story of Australia’s yesterdays. Faintly down the wheel tracks of time come
the shouts of the early teamsters, the pistol-shots of the whips, the creaking
of hard-stirained swingle-trees.
Jn those days Australia’s foundations were laid largely by hand, and the
power of the horse was vitally necessary during the long, strenuous hours.
Today as we progress at unbelievable speed with the building of our nation,
much work is done mechanically, and our industrial workers—the “teamsters”
of 1959—frequently control hundreds of horsepower with the press of a
button or the throw of a switch.
So highly mechanised is the Tasmanian Burnie Mill of Associated Pulp &
Paper Mills Ltd., that 19 h.p. is generated for every one of the 2,500
employees. This is more than four times the Australian industry average,
twice the American average and some seven times the European average.
This remarkable achievement helps increase the productivity of the Aus-
tralian workers who make at the Burnie Mill much of Australia’s require-
ments in fine printing and writing papers and specialty wrappings.
(Ik
ASSOCIATED PULP & PAPER MILLS LIMITED
Subsidiary companies:
PAPERMAKERS LIMITED
BALLARAT PAPER MILLS PTY. LTD.
o
Mills at Burnie, Tasmania, and Ballarat, Victoria.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide.
“BURNIE” AND “BALLARAT” PRODUCTS ARE DISTRIBUTED BY
WHOLESALE PAPER MERCHANTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
picture-theatres. More than 20
of them have closed-down or
have had to restrict screenings
to a couple of evenings a week.
Admittedly, too, the horror-
films must have been passed by
the censor (though it is un-
likely that they were approved
for general exhibition).
But the screening of horror-
films in the early hours of a
Monday morning is hardly the
proper way for picture-theatres
to go about recovering their
declining patronage. Better
programmes, not worse ones,
are the answer. — Wusslean
(Vic.).
Lemony on Oranges
As an orange-grower in a
small way at a spot about 50
miles from Sydney, I am just
beginning, after five years of
battling against various scales,
wogs and fruit-flies, to wonder
if it's worth while.
At the beginning of last
month I sent 34 cases of
second-crop Valencias to an
agent at the City Markets.
Four cases of small oranges
were marked “juicing quality.”
Cases cost me Is. 9d. each
and were not charged for in the
account sales, which reads:
34 e/s Valencias at
6/- (factory) .. £lO 4 0
Cartage £2 13 10
Commission .... 15 3
Stamps, etc. . . 10
Advertising levy,
-Id. per pkg. .. 15
3 11 4
Net £6 12 8
P.S.; No demand for this fruit, factory
outlet only.
It doesn't require a mecha-
nical brain to figure-out how
much a case I actually received.
Second-crop oranges don't
usually have a very inviting
color they tend towards a
greenish-yellow shade —but this
doesn’t affect their sweetness
or juice-content. The buyer at
the markets knows this as well
as the grower. Mine were no
exception, but the larger ones
were comparable for both
size and color with oranges
retailing at 4d. and sd. each
in suburban shops.
I rang my agent to check-up
on this shocking return and
was casually told that I was
lucky to get that price, as there
was a glut of second-crop
oranges on the market and
many were being dumped
because even the juicing-factory
didn’t want them. If this is
true, then there’s something
very wrong with the system
of marketing in this State.
There is a deduction of 4d.
per case for advertising. This
levy, I take it, is imposed to
create a fund for popularising
the consumption of oranges. So
far I haven’t seen any signs
of such advertising, and I
doubt if it is necessary ail
mothers are told by their
doctors and baby-clinics the
value, and even the necessity,
of giving their children fresh
orange-juice. But there aren’t
too many parents who can con-
tinually afford to pay 4d. and
sd. each for pieces of fruit for
their children. (Some shops,
by the way, are displaying
oranges at lOd. each.)
There is far too much
difference between the grower's
return and the housewife’s
outlay, and it’s up to some-
body to do something about
it.
As for fruit being dumped
because of a surplus on the
market, this is nothing short
of criminal waste. Couldn’t
surplus fruit be given to some
worth-while organisation—say,
Red Cross or Legacy? What


about free meals for old-age
pensioners? Surely the City
Council, which controls
the fruit-markets and is sup-
posed to feel so strongly for
the age-pensioner, could at
least step in on their behalf.
On many occasions when
motoring to the city I have
taken several cases of fruit to
various children’s - homes,
private hospitals and twilight-
homes, and the thanks I’ve
received have been quite
embarrassing. To have got the
magnificent, sum of 2s. a case
after outgoings, not including
labor or petrol, tells me I would
have been better off to have
given the whole consignment to
a local charity or hospital.—
Dune (N.S.W.).
Political Apathy
“Farinmail” (B. 4/3/’59),
after taking me to task for
suggesting that politics are
often more corrupt in countries
(like Australia and America)
which support several Parlia-
ments, names some European
federal States whose Govern-
ments are, or were, democratic
and clean mainly because of
their close resemblance to the
English system.
As for France, the fact that
her “highly centralised govern-
mental system” frequently
breaks-down cuts no ice with
me, or with historians. France
has —and has had for a long
time —the most emotional, un-
'Well, I really don't know. I'm a visitor here, too."
stable and inconstant Parlia-
ment in Christendom.
“Magnoon” (B. 4/3 / ’59),
however, doesn’t seem to go
even part of the way with me.
And against my plea for fuller
Federation he uses the extra-
ordinary argument that should
our State Parliaments be
abolished and an enemy
threaten nuclear warfare from,
for example, the north, Can-
berra might capitulate to save
its own skin. Has London or
the Commons ever shown a
likelihood of caving-in at any
time during England’s long
history of threatened invasion
from several points around her
coastline?
Let “Magnoon” stick strictly
to Australian political history
and answer this: When did
Australia as a nation become
politically mature —before, or
immediately after, Federation?
Of course, compared to the
positive Parliamentary system
as represented by the Commons
and the Lords, our House of
Representatives and Senate at
Canberra as at present con-
stituted remain somewhati
negative.
But surely the strengthening
or complete centralisation of
our Federal Parliament at the
expense of our decadent State
legislative membership would
give us greater political
stability, domestic and inter-
national, than the half-and-
half and expensive system by
which we have been governed
since 1901? P.O.M.C,
(N.S.W.).
Printed Wool
After all the blurb about
printed woollens, and after see-
ing a beautiful printed-wool
gown at the Melbourne Royal
Show, I have been anxiously
awaiting its appearance on the
market. My sister and I
shopped for a woollen frock
recently, and there they were—
printed-wool frocks, so hideous
that we hid our eyes! Blackish
florals splashed with garish
yellow, and gaudy blues and
greens, cut like bags and priced
from £l5 to £l7 each. They
were so ugly that the fantastic
thought occurred to me that
there must be a conspiracy!
The only attractive winter-
frock 1 saw was of brushed-
nvlon, but as a woolgrower’s
wife I could hardly buy that,
could I? — Daisy (Vic.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 533
Across
I—Five1 —Five to four against a big smoke liveliness. (8)
s—Spinning-reel5—Spinning-reel receptacle into which Hope might be
thrown, or even Menzies. (6)
8 — A Melbourne suburb member of holy orders having a
paddle. (10)
9 Midge having a reversal of taste. (4)
10—An escape of water affecting the lake. (4)
I,2—Colder chemical firm visited by Queen Elizabeth. (5)
13—Some people, but not these, turned to that woman’s. (6)
17 — Star-affected faculty. (4)
18 — Musical intervals have some Jews
holding on. (9)
20 — Part of Scotland which is not
out with Jules on a steam-
ship. (9)
21 — A little business with a parent
in a deep stupor. (4)
23 —One who stops for a little
employer of dad. (6)
25 — Din associated with this firearm
used by little Georgia. (5)
26 — A mournful mantle to irk father
when approaching the fifties. (4)
27 — Responsibility for the legside
form of you and me. (4)
28— Fierce disciplinarian a swallow
swallowed illiterately. (8)
29 — Don’t stop behaving like an
angry billy-goat fastener. (6)
30 — Sharkskin has changed color. (8)
Down
1— Tending to justify five with a
mood. (11)
2 1-down without a showing
spite. (10)
3 To business, Noel! (6)
4 Broken noses suited boring
qualities. (11)
5 An insect with the Gallicised
musical instrument. (5)
6 A suitable place for some lying
nonsense. (4)
7 Bolt through this barrel the
wrong way. (3)
9 —Georgia’s gossip slump turned
up. (3)
11 —A considerable time to muse. (5)
14 —It’s desirable when too many
house-guests come to stay
straight. (4-7)
15— European Elizabeth with an
Asian. (11)
16 — Marie associated with this
Etantote. (10)
19 —Al-Al-A 1 in court proceed-
ings. (5)
22 — For example, the Grand National
is to go wrong with drink. (3-3)
23 Father’s dance step. (3)
24 A famous Australian aviator in
elm resin. (5)
26 Havs a flutter kick alternative
to a bridge. (4)
27 Eye brother comes up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 532.


During a period of
investigation into
causes of lamb losses
sixty per cent, of
fatalities occurred
within the lamb’s first
two days of life. It
is at this age that
marking and tailing
should be carried out
and the high mort-
ality could result from
the use of methods
causing open wounds
becoming infected by
disease germs. If the
bloodless Elastrator
method is used losses
are considerably
reduced.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CATTLE AT SYDNEY ROYAL
Beef Caftle
SHORTHORNS
Grand-champion bull: Green-
wich Jedborough (Kyalla
Pty.).
Grand-champion cow or
heifer: Coombing Em-
press 28th (W hit n e y
Pastoral Co.).
Champion bull: Woomargama
Westerner (C. P. Fairbairn
and Co.).
Reserve: Saltoun Olympic
(imp.) (W. R. Ross).
Junior: Greenwich Jed-
borough (Kyalla).
Reserve: Greenwich Julius
(Kyalla).
Champion cow or heifer:
Greenwich Lustre Japonica
(Kyalla).
Reserve: Greenwich Lustre
Ina (Kyalla).
Junior: Coombing Empress
28th (Whitney Pastoral
Co.).
Reserve: Old Canowie Broad-
hooks Landlady 19th (J.
Parker).
Bull, 2y. and under 3: Saltoun
Olympic (imp.), (W. R. Ross),
1; Old Canowie Crusader
(J. Parker), 2; Woomargama
Wakeful (C. P. Fairbairn), 3.
21m. and under 2y.: Woomargama
Westerner (C. P. Fairbairn), 1;
Bolinda Indomitable (Sir
Rupert Clarke), 2; Weenya
General (A. and W. Lambell
Pty.), 3; Cubbora Hercules
(Cubbora Pastoral Co.), 4.
18m. and under 21m.: Icianz
Curium (1.C.1.), 1; Icianz
Cerium (1.C.1.), 2; Bolinda
“Well, is there one here that isn't a pet ?”
Illinois (Sir Rupert Clarke), 3 ;
Weenya Gunner (A. and W.
Lambell), 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Greenwich
Jedborough, 1 ; Greenwich
Java, 2; Coombing Coster, 3;
Hartwould Itinerary (J. H.
McKenna and Son), 4.
12m. and under 15m.: Greenwich
Julius, 1; Round Hill Cock
Robin (Round Hill Pty), 2;
Dauntless Prince Kenneth (W.
R. Ross), 3; Greenwich John
Bull, 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Round Hill
Defender, 1; Wongaia Locher-
bie (J. Kemelfield), 2; Mena
Ambassador (N. A. Lambell),
3; Greenwich King Charles, 4.
Cow, over 3y.: Billabula Princess
Patricia (E. and N. Campbell).
2y. and under 3y.: Greenwich
Lustre Ina, 1; Bolinda Eliza
7th (Sir Rupert Clarke). 2.
21m. and under 2y.: Round Hill
Empress, 1; Greenwich Mina
Janet, 2; Falconers Redfinch
2nd (R.I.G. and Mrs. J. D.
Hawkes), 3.
18m. and under 21m.: Greenwich
Lustre Japonica, 1; Coombing
Melody 24th, 2; Calare Royal
Lady (O.E. Ingrey), 3 ; Wongaia
Clara sth (J. Kemelfield), 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Coombing
Empress 28th, 1; Dauntless
Pearly Queen (W. R. Ross), 2;
Greenwich Golden June, 3;
Weddin Mulberry 96th (J. and
T. Carter), 4.
12m. and under 15m.: Old Canowie
Broadhooks Landlady 19th, 1;
Round Hill Crocus Carol, 2;
Weddin Lady Verity 36th (J.
and T. Carter), 3; Weenya
Fancy Girl (A. and W. Lam-
bell), 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Round Hill
Augusta Lyn, 1; Greenwich
Viola Katy, 2; Wongaia Lola
Clara, 3.
POLL SHORTHORNS
Grand-champion bull: Gundi-
bri Champagne 88th
(Gundibri Estate Pty.,
Ltd.).
Grand-champion cow or
heifer: Merryville Mona
2nd (Merryville Pty., Ltd.).
Champion bull: Gundibri
Champagne 88th.
Reserve: Merryville Gay
Robert.
Junior. Greenwich Mount
Jordon (Kyalla).
Reserve: Fullerton Envoy
(W. J. and Mrs. D.
Bushell).
Champion cow: Merryville
Mona 2nd.
Reserve: Merryville Dorothy
Perkins 9th.
Junior: Merryville Mountain
Mistress 12th.
Reserve: Fullerton Alexis.
Bull, over 3y.: Merryville True
Leader, 1; Kaluga High Finance
(W.B.H. Wales), 2.
2\y. and under 3y.: Gundibri
Champagne 88th, 1; Merry-
ville Gay Robert, 2; Old
Canowie Classmate (J. Parker),
3; Gundibri Champagne
115th, 4.
21m. and under 2y.: Karoola
Luxury (W. P. Johnson), 1;
Lone Pine Parson (D. S. and
M. S. McLarty), 2; Silver Pines
Prince (J. D. McLarty Estate),
3; Silver Pines Julius, 4.
18m. and under 21m.: Bogan
Quadrant (K. G. Mackinnon
and Sons), 1; Karoola Loam,
2; Milly Milly Jasper (H. and
H. McFarlane), 3; Peel Ray-
mond (Peel River Land and
Mineral Co.), 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Greenwich
Mount Jordon, 1; Fullerton
Envoy, 2; Kaluga Tricolor, 3;
Buringa Grenadier (R. A. King-
ham), 4.
12m. and under 15m.: Fullerton
Entice, 1; Fullerton Felix, 2;
Kaluga Royal Kingdom, 3;
Kaluga Holbrook, 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Highbank
Field Duke (R. 1. Browne), 1;
Linburn Kilowood (C. E.
Baker), 2; Merryville Laddy
4th, 3; Kulkine Kiloking (B. J.
McKay), 4,
Cow, over 3y.: Merryville Lassie
4th, 1; Newbold Carona’s
Beverly 3rd (W. J. Dawkins
Newbold, Ltd.), 2.
2y. and under 3y.: Merryville
Dorothy Perkins 9th, 1; Anna-
ville Derry Duchess 3rd (O. R.
Gavin), 2.
21m. and under 2y : Merryville
Mona 2nd.
18m. and under 21m.: Milly Milly
Fantasia 2nd, 1; Gunnawarra
Roan Duchess 16th (Gunna-
warra Co.), 2; Wynyard Coun-
tess 609th (J. D. McLarty
Estate), 3; Bogan Decora-
tion, 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Merryville
Mountain Mistress 12th, 1;
Fullerton Alexis, 2; Greenwich
Secret Joanna, 3 ; Wargandinna
Madam Butterfly 2nd (F. G.
Marshall Pty.), 4.
12m. and under 15m.: Merryville
Butterfly 4th, 1; Milly Milly
Fanciful 2nd, 2; Karoola
Geraldine 11th, 3; Bogan
Duplicate 2nd, 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Fullerton
Fairy Princess, 1; Merryville
Dorothy Perkins 10th, 2;
Annaville Derry Duchess 4th,
3; Kulkine Petal, 4.
HEREFORDS
Grand-champion bull: South
Boorook Lovat (J. R
Allen).
Grand-champion cow or
heifer: Fairymead Moon-
beam 3rd (Fairymead
Sugar Co., Ltd.).
Champion bull: Myall
Supreme 2nd (Fenwick
Bros.).
Reserve: Bexley Model (Hays
Bros.).
Junior: South Boorook Lovat.
Reserve: South Boorook
Haughton.
Champion cow: Myall Gipsy


Queen 69th (T. G. and
B. B. Hawkins).
Reserve: Fairymead Simplicity.
Junior: Fairymead Moon-
beam 3rd.
Reserve. Windsor Josephine
37th (Town and Country
Lands Pty., Ltd.).
Bull, over 3y.: Bellwyn Grandee
(William Peatt Pty., Ltd.), 1;
Lomani Zero (K. P. Wright
and Son), 2; Lincoln Roseman
2nd (N. G. Lyons), 3; Navua
Beau Ideal (C. K. and J. C.
Hill), 4.
2y. and under 3y.: Myall Supreme
2nd, 1; limor Cotton Tail
(Timor White Bros.), 2; Red
Hill Olympus (H. Field Pty.,
Ltd.), 3 ; Myall Red Craze, 4.
21m. and under Bexley Model,
1; South Boorook Hobart, 2;
South Boorook Sorrento, 3;
Windsor Boston, 4.
18m. and unuer 21m.: Dalkeith
Duncan (Miss T. McMaster),
1; South Boorook Orford, 2;
Midgeon Idaho (K. P. and
Mrs. J. A. Paimer), 3 ; Windsor
Boxer, 4.
15m. and under 18m.: South
Boorook Lovat, 1; Timor Cot-
tage Master, 2; Rae Bon
Handy Man (J. E. Davies), 3;
Bexley Tradition, 4.
12m. and under 15m.: South
Boorook Marten, 1; Windsor
Batman, 2; South Boorook
Dunlop, 3 ; vVindsor Brilliant, 4.
6m. and under 12m.: South
Boorook Haughton, 1; Bec-
tive Bridge Way (J. F. Vickery
Estate), 2 ; Laurimar Delight-
ful (L. T. Mitchell), 3; Ardno
Royal Salute (R. L.
McEachern), 4.
Cow, over 3y.: Myall Frolic 45th,
1; Navua Last Day 7th, 2;
Navua Marshall Lass, 3.
2y. and under Jy.: Myall Gipsy
Queen 69th (E. G. and B. B.
Hawkins), 1 ; Fairymead Sim-
plicity, 2; Turee Pearl 31
(Turee Station), 3.
21m. and under 2y.: Timor
Coming Day 37th, 1; Turee
Una Bth, 2; Fairymead Last
Day 9th, 3; Bexley Wonder
Lass 43rd, 4.
18m. and under 21m.: Dalkeith
Victoria 21st, 1; Hillcrest
Chance 11th, 2.
15m. and under 18m.: Timor Prin-
cess Royal 85th, 1; Bexley
Marshall Lass 31st, 2;
Lomani Diana 11th, 3; Red.
Hill Miss Muifet 18th, 4.
12m. and under 15m.: Fairymead
Moonbeam 3rd, 1; Windsor
Josephine 37th, 2; Red Hill
Melba 11th, 3; Ardno Marshall
Lass 26th, 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Ardno Cori-
sande 20th, 1 ; Tiverton Miss
Loyal (Mrs. S. J. Field), 2;
Fairymead Last Day 10th, 3;
Fairymead Simplicity 2nd, 4.
POLL HEREFORDS
Grand-champion bull: Ardno
Artilleryman (R. L. Mc-
Eachern).
Grand - champion cow or
heifer: Ardno Daisy Lass
19th (R. L. McEachern).
Champion bull: Ardno
Artilleryman.
Reserve: Castle Bend Larg-
esse (J. W. Williamson).
Junior: Springfield Master-
piece 2nd (S.T. and Estate
of C. H. Hawkins).
Cow or heifer: Ardno Daisy
Lass 19th.
Reserve: Springfield Hyacinth
4 th.
Junior: Springfield Maritana
4th.
Reserve: Milton Donna 2nd
(A Hordern, snr.).
Bull, over 2y.: Brewarrana Gallant
3rd (W. J. Lenehan), 1; Spring-
field Belle Boy, 2; Milton
Regent 2nd (J. H. Anderson
and Sons), 3; Castle Bend
Lachlan 2nd (N. G. Lyons), 4.
21m. and under 2y.: Castle Bend
Largesse and Castle Bend Envoy
(J. W. Williamson), 1 and 4;
Brewarrana Sampson, 2;
Bayunga Baccarat (J. H.
Sleigh), 3.
18m. and under 21m.: Ardno
Artilleryman, 1; Brewarrana
Ensign 3rd, 2; Ardno Beacon,
3; Deepfields Magnet (K. G.
Luke), 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Springfield
Masterpiece 2nd, 1; Castle
Bend Leander, 2; Wirruna
Alex 3rd (A. W. and F. R.
Locke), 3; Castle Bend
Laureate 2nd, 4.
12m. and under 15m.: Springfield
Sergeant 4th, 1; Lingwen
Marvel Mischief (P. J. Adams),
2; Milton Archer 2nd, 3;
Springfield Dispenser 2nd, 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Brewarrana
Ormonde, 1; Deepfields
Napoleon, 2; Currajong Com-
mander (T. R. Trewin), 3; The
Braes Regal Mixer (J. A. and
D. J. Hanson), 4.
Cow, over 2y.: Springfield Hya-
cinth 4th, 1; Pylara Brownie
2nd and Pylara Reprieve 3rd
(G. A. Pockley and Pylara Pty.),
2 and 3.
21m. and under 2y.: Ardno Daisy
Lass 19th, 1; Brewarrana
Melody, 2; Milton Sparke, 3.
18m. and under 21m.: Forktree
Radiance 3rd (G. V. Bennett),
1; Ardno Maritana Lass 2nd,
2; Milton Classical 2nd, 3;
Currajong Annabelle 2nd, 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Springfield
Maritana 4th, 1; Milton Donna
2nd, 2; Milton Suzanne, 3;
The Braes Fancy 28th, 4.
12m. and under 15m.: Currajong
Dolores, 1; Springfield Belle
7th, 2; Harrington Phlox
(W. O. Fairfax), 3.
6m. and under 12m.: Deepfields
Jewel Bth, 1; Milton Dignity,
2; Springfield Daisy Bell 4th,
3; Brewarrana Flora 2nd, 4.
ABERDEEN-ANGUS
Grand-champion bull: Booroo-
mooka Anticipate (H. G.
Munro).
Grand-champion cow: Narran-
gullen Geranium 3rd
(G. T. Reid Estate).
Champion bull: Booroomooka
Anticipate.
Reserve: Booroomooka Bour-
bon.
Junior: Woolamia Baron Bold
(E. C. and B. L. Hawkins
and Sons).
Reserve: Mt. William Bando-
lero (Mrs. W. J. R. Wil-
son).
Champion cow or heifer:
Narrangullen Geranium
3rd.
Reserve: Booroomooka Zoe.
Junior: Narrangullen Roman-
tica 2nd.
Reserve: Narrangullen Glimma
2nd.
Bull, over 3y.: Narrangullen Euri-
pides, 1; Jago of Balfour
(also G. T. Reid Estate; imp.
N.Z.), 2.
2£y. and under 3y.: Bald Blair
Allum (Bald Blair Pastoral
Co.).
2y. and under 2|y.: Booroomooka
Anticipate, 1; Kahlua-Tithonic,
2; Kahlua-Greystone (both
Kahlua Pastoral Co.), 3;
Trangie Pro Ben (Department
of Agriculture), 4.
21m. and under 2y.: Kahlua
Antiquity, 1; Wallah Minbago
(Wallah Pastoral Co.), 2;
Trangie Pro Ben 2nd (D. of
A.), 3; Kilmarnock Bruce
(A. S. Boyd), 4.
18m. and under 21m.: Booroo-
mooka Bourbon, 1; Wamba-
numba Banker (F. H. Tout and
Co.), 2; Wambanumba Boxer,
3 ; Dropmore Lacquer (R. C. N,
Clarke), 4.
15m. and under 18m.: Woolamia
Baron Bold (E. C. and B. L.
Hawkins and Sons), 1;
Booroomooka Bailoch, 2;
Wambanumba Berry, 3;
Booroomooka Baritone, 4.
12m. and under 15m.: Mt. William
Bandolero, 1; Booroomooka
Bingara, 2; Curiawidgen Casa-
nova (Mrs. M. J. Sanderson),
3; Mt. William Todman, 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Mt. William
Generalissimo, 1; Sutherland
George (J. Jackson), 2; Ard-
gour Cable (F. E. Body
Estate), 3.
Cow, over 3y.: Narrangullen
Geranium 3rd, 1; Booroo-
mooka Zoe, 2.
2Jy. and under 3y.: Bald Blair
Twilight 2nd, 1; Sutherland
Fancy (J. Jackson), 2.
2y. and under 2±y.: Sutherland
Genista, 1 ; Narrangullen Gera-
nium 4th, 2; Narrangullen
Gracie, 3.
21m. and under 2y.: Narrangullen
Roulette, 1; Ooraine Songster
2nd (A. E. Elliott), 2 ; Sandhurst
Bent (C. H. A. Plain), 3.
18m. and under 21m.: Sutherland
Florin, 1; Oorame Merrymaid,
2; Booroomooka Benign, 3.
15m. and under 18m.: Narrangullen
Romantica 2nd, 1; Booroo-
mooka Ballerina, 2; Baid Biair
Belle, 3.
12m. and under 18m.: Kahula-
Countess Tempe 7th, 1;
Kahlua - Matania 4th, 2;
Kahlua-Anthonette 11th, 3;
Milong Bevei ly (Milong Pty.
Ltd.), 4.
6m. and under 12m.: Narrangullen
Glimma 2nd, 1; Ardgour
Climax 3rd, 2;. Sandhurst
Cinderella (C. H. A. Plain), 3.
DEVONS
Grand-champion bull: Ret-
ford Stockman 3rd Gib-
raltar Pty. Ltd.).
Grand-champion cow: Havi-
lah Brassy 427th (Havilah
Pty. Ltd.).
Champion bull: Retford
Stockman 3rd.
Reserve: Havilah Midas 160th.
Junior: Glen Moan Brick
22nd (Taiping Invest-
ments).
Reserve: Retford Mr. Brent
(Gibraltar).
Champion cow or heifer:
Havilah Brassy 427th.
Reserve: Havilah Apricot
1180th.
Junior: Havilah Weekday
37th.
Reserve: Retford Capton
Apricot.
Bull, over 3y.: Table Top Captain
(W. D. Wood).
2y. and under 3y.: Retford Stock-
man 3rd, 1; Havilah Midas
160th, 2; Scorrier Lionhearted
(I. Livermore), 3.
21m. and under 2y.: Havilah Midas
153rd, 1; Kilmorey South
Servant 23rd (Mrs. J. M.
Officer), 2.
18m. and under 21m.: Woodbong
Winalot (W. D. Wood), 1;
The Hill Gay Boy (A. A. Laid-
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(26/3/’59)
In Queensland heavy rains and flooding are likely in
the north and central coastal districts during April, with
reasonably good rains elsewhere, though rainfall may be
poor in the far western divisions. Patchy rains below
normal are likely in May and June, with good rains in July.
In N.S.W. heavy rains are indicated on the central and
mid-north coastal districts and part of the Hunter River
Valley during April, associated with cyclonic activity off the
central coast. Moderate rains elsewhere, though rain may
be light in part of the Riverina and along the Darling. Light
to moderate rain should occur in May and June.
In Victoria good rains should be received in the central
division, Gippsland and the north-east and west coastal areas
during April, though rain may be patchy elsewhere, varying
from light to moderate. Patchy rains are indicated for May,
with moderately good rains during June.
South Australia may have only light to moderate
patchy rains during April, though there should be reasonably
good rains in May. Rainfall may be poor in the interior.
Western Australia may also have only poor rainfall
during April, though reasonably good rains should be re-
ceived in the agricultural areas during May.
LENNOX WALKER.


law), 2; Newstead No. 1420
(Newstead South Pastoral
Co.), 3.
15m. and under 18m.: Glen Moan
Brick 22nd (Taiping Invest-
ments), 1; Havilah Stockman
16th, 2; Havilah Midas 155th,
3; Glen Moan Churchill 2nd, 4.
12m. and under 18m.: Havilah
Stockman 26th, 1 ; Newstead
No. 1451, 2; Newstead No.
1436, 3.
6m. to 12m.: Retford Mr. Brent,
1; Havilah Civil Servant 119th,
2; Glen Moan Napoleon 55th,
3; Woodbong Ringleader, 4.
Cow, over 3y.: Havilah Brassy
427th, 1; Havilah Apricot
1020th, 2; Table Top Obedient
(Gibraltar), 3.
2y. and under 3y.: Havilah
Apricot 1180th, 1; Newstead
No. 1260, 2.
18m. and under 21m.: Retford
Jenny Wren, 1; Newstead No.
1415, 2; Newstead No. 1419, 3.
15m. and under 18m.: Havilah
Weekday 37th, 1; Whisloca
Plum 35th (Mrs. J. M. Officer),
2; Newstead No. 1407, 3.
12m. and under 15m.: Newstead
Cherry sth, 1 ; Newstead No.
1457, 2; Newstead No. 1440, 3.
6m. and under 12m.: Retford
Capton Apricot, 1; Woodbong
Flirt, 2; The Hill Crafty 7th, 3.
SANTA GERTRUDIS
Champion bull: King Damon
(King Ranch (Vic.) Pty.).
Champion cow or heifer:
Risdon Choice (King
Ranch Australia Pty.).
Bull, over 18m.: King Ranch
Damon, 1 ; King Ranch
Damocles, 2.
Under 18m.: Risdon Earl, 1;
Risdon Editor, 2; Risdon
Edition tall King Ranch, Aust.),
3; King Ranch Danaus (King
Ranch, Vic.), 4.
Cow or heifer, over 18m.: Risdon
Choice, 1 ; King Ranch
Duchess, -2; Risdon Conchita
(King Ranch, Australia's
Bowral stud), 3.
Under 18m.: Risdon Eve. 1;
Risdon Express, 2; Risdon
Empress, 3.
GALLOWAYS
Bull, any age: Bukalong
Reggie, 1 ; Bukalong
Mack, 2; Bukalong Charlie
(all R. C. D. Gurnock), 3.
Dual - purpose Breeds
RED POLLS
Grand-champion bull: Lark-
hill Pirate (Brigadier G. S.
Hurst).
Grand-champion cow or
heifer: Larkhill Red
Ruby 2nd.
Junior champion bull: Lark-
hill Pirate.
Reserve: Larkhill Ship’s Cap-
tain.
Champion cow: Larkhill Red
Ruby 2nd.
Reserve: Larkhill Sea Pearl.
Junior: Larkhill Sea Strand.
Reserve: Larkhill Sweet
Cicely.
Bull, 15m. and under 18m.: Lark-
hill Renown.
12m. and under 15m.: Larkhill
Pirate.
6m. and under 12m.: Larkhill
Ship’s Captain, 1; Larkhill
Thomas Cook, 2; Crown Lea
Glengalla (V. T. Stein), 3.
Cow 2y. and under 3y.: Larkhill
Red Ruby 2nd, 1; Bundaleer
Bush Mist (V. T, Stein), 2.
21m. and under 2y.: Larkhill Sea
Pearl.
6m. and under 12m.: Larkhill Sea
Strand, 1; Larkhill Sweet
Cicely, 2; Wedget Brigalow
(R. H. Maund), 3.
DAIRY SHORTHORNS
Champion bull: Willow Park
Gay Lord 33rd (S. T.
Howe).
Reserve: Orma Wild Stack-
man (Atkinson Bros.).
Champion cow or heifer:
Willow Park Countess
92nd (Atkinson Bros.).
Reserve: Willow Park Comet
77th (Atkinson Bros.).
Bull, over 2y.: Willow Park Gay
Lord 33rd, 1; Orma Wild
Stockman, 2; Yandihai Gay
Lord 2nd (J. C. Warren), 3.
18m. and under 21m.: Willow
Park Gay Lord 6th.
12m. and under 18m.: Drumneil
Paradox Bth (R. H. Meaklim),
1; Willow Park Gay Lord
71st, 2.
Cow, over 3y., in milk: Willow
Park Countess 92nd, 1;
Willow Park Red Rose, 2.
Under 3y., in milk: Bonnie View
Pearl 15th (S. T. Howe).
Over 3y., dry: Willow Park Comet
77th, 1; Willow Park Duchess
162nd, 2; Bonnie View Moss
Rose, 3.
Under 3y., dry: Willow Park
Blush 59th, 1 ; Bonnie View
Peggy 2nd, 2; Drumneil Ins
3rd, 3.
Dairy Cattle
A.I.S.
Champion bull: Oakleigh
Major (P. H. E. Chittick).
Reserve: Alne Bank Frederick
(G. E. Chittick).
Junior: Parkview Figaro (W.
L. Heutson).
Reserve: Blackburn Reward
(Richardson Brothers).
Cow or heifer: Denbrook
Jane (H. Dudgeon and
Sons).
Junior: Parkview Beauty 88th
(H. Dudgeon and Sons).
Reserve: Lemon Grove Ethel
95th (C. R. Chittick).
Under 2y., in milk: Lemon Grove
Ethel 95th, 1; Grafton Lustre’s
Silverine (N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture), 2; Tabbagong
Ruth 110th and Tabbagong
Beauty 124th (Richardson
Bros.), 3 and 4.
2y. and under 3y., in milk: Lemon
Grove Princess 143rd and
Lemon Grove Empress 2nd
(C. R. Chittick), 1 and 3 ; Park-
view Poppy 3lst (H. Dudgeon
and Sons), 2; Raedella Brenda
(K. .1. and Mrs. T. M.
Dwyer), 4.
3v. and under 4y., in milk: Tabba-
gong Gertie 44th and Tabba-
gong Beauty 107th and Tabba-
gong Jean 27th (Richardson
Bros.), 1, 3 and 4; Lemon
Faith in the
Future
This month we commemorate the 150th
anniversary of the establishment of the Post Office
in Australia.
It is a good time to recall the faithful service
of those who provide and maintain our systems
of communication.
So much that we enjoy in present living goes
by an easy acceptance; the delivery of mails, for
instance—and yet that is one service which is
vitally necessary to the interchange of personal
thought and to the charging of our industrial and
commercial energies.
The story of the Postal Service runs parallel
to.the history of Australia. To measure its growth
we have only to think back upon a mailman riding
or walking a dusty track, in days when deliveries
were taxed at so much a sheet of writing.
They were brave days, lived by people in a
land where the only touch with the outside world,
at first, was in the news a sailing ship would bring.
When the first colonial Post Office was opened
we were just twenty-one years on from the arrival
of the settlers in the First Fleet. Twenty-seven
years were to pass before Rowland Hill was to
publish in England his famous pamphlet on Penny
Postage, out of which grew the universal system of
posting we know today.
Before Federation each of the States had its
own Post Office, issued its own stamps, conducted
its own telegraphic and telephonic business. Now
it is a national institution working in fields
unimagined at the time it was begun; covering a
vast engineering network, providing service
facilities for radio and television.
But to sight this is only to give ourselves an
anniversary glimpse of the continuing story.
Australia will expand in the future more rapidly
than in the past. Its system of communications
will grow in pace with it.
So we really pay a tribute to our country, and
to all who have worked on its foundations, when
we compliment the Post Office now on its
century-and-a-half of eminent service.
H. Hastings Deening


KITCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50ih Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered^—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.
Grove Fussy 68 th (C. R.
Chittick), 2.
4y. and under 5y., in milk: Park-
view Pansy 22nd and Denbrook
Lovely 3rd (H. Dudgeon and
Sons), 1 and 2; Lemon Grove
Princess 128th and Lemon
Grove Venie sth (C. R. Chit-
tick), 3 and 4.
Over 5y., in milk: Denbrook Jane
and Lyndale Fossy 2nd (H.
Dudgeon and Sons), 1 and 3;
Roseview Flora 7th (Richard-
son Bros.), 2; Glenlawn
Blossom (W. L. Hentson), 4.
Over sy. in calf, dry: Alne Bank
Buttercup 151st (G. E. Chit-
tick), 1 ; Tabbagong Dairymaid
67th and Tabbagong Beauty
68th (Richardson Bros.), 2 and
3 ; Meadowbank Josephine 4th
(H. Dudgeon and Sons), 4.
4y. and under 5y., in calf, dry:
Parkview Fussy 134th (H.
Dudgeon and Sons), 1; Park-
view Poppy 26th (S. K.
Edwards), 2; Grafton Maud’s
Queen (N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture), 3; Tabbagong
Fussy 52nd (Richardson
Bros.), 4.
3y. and under 4y., in calf, dry:
Grafton Camera's Lullaby
(N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture), I ; Tabbagong Fussy 60th
(Richardson Bros.), 2; Berry
Strawberry 69th (N.S.W. Child
Welfare Department), 3;
Jenleigh Fussy 3rd (S. Jennings
and Sons), 4.
2y. and under 3y., in calf, dry:
Tabbagong Fussy 66th
(Richardson Bros.), 1; Tabba-
gong Fussy 67th (J. B. Richard-
son), 2; Lemon Grove Princess
149th and Lemon Grove Fussy
71st (C. R. Chittick), 3 and 4.
18m. and under 2y.: Parkview
Beauty 88th and Parkview
Graceful 31st (H. Dudgeon and
Sons), 1 and 5; Roo View
Shamrock 43 rd (A. W.
Downes), 2; Raedella Marion
(K. J. and Mrs. T. M. Dwyer),
3 ; Nydross Little Bett (E. M.
and Mrs. Nydegger), 4.
12m. and under 18m.: Tabbagong
Ruth 114th and Tabbagong
Ruth 113th (Richardson Bros.),
1 and 2; Parkview Beauty 95th
(H. Dudgeon and Sons), 3;
Grafton Camera’s Morning
2nd (N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture), 4.
3m. and under 12m.: Tabbagong
Beauty 137th (Richardson
Bros.), 1; Parkview Fussy 163rd
and Parkview Poppy 39th (H.
Dudgeon and Sons), 2 and 6;
Glenlawn Myra 131st (W. L.
Hentson), 3; Nydross Babette
3rd (E. M. and Mrs. Nydeg-
ger), 4.
Bull over 4y,: Oakleigh Major, 1;
Alne Bank Frederick, 2: Afton
Design (W. Waddell and Son),
3; Parkview Shareholder (H.
Dudgeon and Sons), 4.
3y. and under 4y.: Parkview
Dominate (S. Jennings and
Sons), 1 ; Nydross Atlas’
Empire (E. M. and Mrs. Nydeg-
ger), 2; Parkview Oscar (C. P.
Sternbeck), 3 ; The Pines Hilda’s
Major (P. H. E. Chittick), 4.
2y. and under 3y.: Glenlawn Royal
Reward (W. L. Hentson), 1 ;
Kiltankin Wattle’s Royal
(P. V. O'Keefe), 2; Lemon
Grove Glamour (C. R. Chit-
tick), 3; Roo View Request
(A. W. Downes), 4.
18m. and under 2y.: Parkview
Figaro, 1; Blackburn Reward,
2; Kurraroo Star’s Last (King
Brothers), 3; Lemon Grove
Romeo (P. H. E. Chittick), 4.
12m. and under 18m.: Ellen Grove
Freddy (S. K. Edwards), 1 ;
Lemon Grove Sputnik (C. R.
Chittick), 2; The Pines Private
(P. H. E. Chittick), 3.
3m. and under 12m.: Parkview
Recompense (C. P. Sternbeck),
1; Parkview Prestige (H.
Dudgeon and Sons), 2; Park-
view Sheriff (J. E. Green), 3;
Alne Bank Motive (G. E.
Chittick), 4.
AYRSHIRES
Champion bull: Epping Forest
Lordly (C. J. Clark).
Reserve: Alandale Flash boy
(C. J. Clark).
Junior: Alandale Victor (R. J.
O’Donnell).
Reserve: Epping Forest Plasto
(E. E. Bentley).
Champion cow or heifer:
Denbigh Gentle 97th (Mc-
Intosh Bros.).
Reserve: Epping For e s t
Lullaby (C. J. Clark).
Junior: Denbigh Mandy (Mc-
Intosh Bros.).
Reserve: Denbigh Sunspot
(Mclntosh Bros.).
2y. and under 3y. in milk: Den-
bigh Olympia and Denbigh
Springtime (Mclntosh Bros.),
1 and 3; Woodside Park
Cinderella and Woodside Park
Phoebe (F. A. Mclntosh), 2
and 4.
3y. and under 4y., in milk: Den-
bigh Gentle 97th and Denbigh
Brightlight (Mclntosh Bros.), 1
and 3 ; Spaniard’s Hill Elizabeth
(C. FI. Dowie), 2; Broughton
Farm Jubilant (A. F. Gar-
ratty), 4.
4y. and under 5y., in milk: Epping
Forest Lullaby, 1; Woodside
Park Novel (F. A. Mclntosh),
2; Broughton Farm Silver
Magnet (A. F. Garratty), 3;
Winvale Bonnie Jean (J. E.
Pye), 4.
Over 5y., in milk: Denbigh Badge
and Denbigh Drusilla and
Denbigh Shimmer, 1, 3 and 4;
Woodside Park Afterthought
and Woodside Park Princess
2nd, 2 and 5,
Over 5y., in calf, dry: Woodside
Park Nola and Woodside Park
Dora, 1 and 2; Alandale
Bonnie Belle (R. J. O'Donnell),
3; Epping Forest Glenice
(C. J. Clark), 4; Craiglee Park
Trixie (C. H. Dowie), 5.
4y. and under 5y., in calf, dry:
Woodside Park Burgundy and
Denbigh Ab - elsa (F. A.
Mclntosh), 1 and 2; Broughton
Farm Peerless, 3.
3y. and under 4y., in calf, dry:
Woodside Park Joy and Black-
wood Park Ruth (F. A.
Mclntosh), 1 and 2; Alandale
Pretty (R. J. - O’Donnell), 3.
2y. and under 3y. in calf, dry:
Spaniard’s Hill Erratic (C. H.
Dowie), 1; Bathurst Quality
Carry 2nd (Department of
Agriculture), 2; Epping Forest
Norma (C. J. Clark), 3.
18m. and under 2y. in milk:
Denby Mandy, 1; Bathurst
Reward Siesta (Department of
Agriculture), 2; Broughton
Farm Eva’s Victory, 3.
18m. and under 2y.: Woodside
Park Rhoda, 1; Spaniard’s Hill
Bimby and Spaniard's Hill
Amber (C. H. Dowie), 2 and
4; Bathurst Reward Carna-
tion, 3.
12m. and under 18m.: Denbigh
Sunspot, 1; Winvale Sun-
flower (J. E. Pye), 2; Alandale
Daisybelle and Alandale Gwen
2nd (R. J. O'Donnell), 3 and 4.
3m. and under 12m.: Alandale
Jenny Wren and Alandale
Jayne (R. J. O'Donnell), 1 and
3; Denbigh Engraving and
Denbigh Eveleen, 2 and 4.
Bull, over 4y.: Denbigh Canyon
and Woodside Park Luminous
(Mclntosh Bros.), 1 and 4;
Bathurst Siesta’s Major, 2;
Denbigh Dignity (C. H.
Dowie), 3.
3y. and under 4y.: Alandale Flash-
boy, 1 ; Alandale Factor 2nd
(R. J. O'Donnell), 2.
2y. and under 3y.: Epping Forest
Lordly, 1; Glengowrie Flash
Jasper (J. E. Pye), 2;
Spaniard's Hill Emperor, 3;
Denbigh Bonnie Doone, 4.
18m. and under 2y.: Epping Forest
Plasto, 1 ; Spaniard's Hill
Nicholas, 2; Winvale Lord
Jene, 3.
12m. and under 18m.: Rockville
Larry (Pye), 1; Denbigh invin-
cible, 2; Bathurst Madamt’s
Reward, 3.
3m. and under 12m.: Alandale
Victor, 1 ; Broughton Farm
Personality, 2; Bathurst Ace,
3; Denbigh Apollo, 4.
JERSEYS
Champion bull: Bemersyde
Arthur (G. and R. Cox).
Reserve: Lawrence Blue Lieht
(A. J. McPhee).
Champion cow or heifer: Oak-
lass Virginia (W. Green-
away).
Reserve: Mimossia Kitty
(Mrs. E. B. and H. J.
Slater).
Junior: Beaumont Dreamer’s
Lotus (M. B. Goard).
Reserve: Oaklaw Fancy (W.
Greenaway.).
Over 5y.. in milk: Mimossia Kitty,
1 ; Lenila Royal Pascie (Green-
away), 2; Jersey Mead Royal
Ruby and Jersey Mead Lively
(J. T. Mutton and Sons), 3
and 4.
4y. and under 5y., in milk: Oak-
law Virginia, 1; Austral Park
Easter Gold, 2; Pendle Park
Pacy Gold (C. F. Gallard), 3;
Wilgo Dreaming Girl <H. 1.
Solway and Son), 4.
3y. and under 4y., in milk: Austral
Park Envious, 1; Glenmalc
Design’s Delight (L. L. Braith-
waite), 2; The Meadow's
Opera Queen (T. Grey and
Son), 3; Daisy Glen Designer's
Patsy (Gallard), 4.
2y. and under 3y., in milk: Thelma-
vilie Twilight (F. C. Emery),
1; Elston Di earning Lady
(J. M. Kirton), 2; Austral Park
Frezia, 3; Pendle Park
Countess, 4.
Over 5y., in calf, dry: Bemersyde
Eileen 31st, 1; Ihe Meadow's
Orchid, 2; Wollingurry Amelia
sth (C. Brown), 3; Oaklaw
Trinket, 4; Austrai Park Blue
lone, 5.
4y. and under 5y., in calf, dry:
Oaklaw Merianne, 1 ; Mian-
detta Dainty Lady 2nd (W. 1.
Braithwaite and Son), 2;
Manuden Donaio’s Maid
(J. K. Taylor and Son), 3;
Llanillo Tudor Rose (A. B.
Poole), 4.
3y. and under 4y., in calf, dry:
Austral Park Regal Cowslip,
1; Oaklaw Dolores, 2; Pendle
Park Clive, 3; Wilgo Loyal
Lady, 4.
2y. and under 3y., in calf, dry:
Oaklaw Gayieaf, 1; Oaklaw
Tessie (J. M. Kirton), 2;
Wollingurry Goldie, 3; Mian-
detta Lucky Lady 6th (W. I.
Braithwaite and Son), 4.
18m. and under 2y., in milk:
Austral Park Fonteyn, 1 : Glen-
craig Spotted Rebecca (Mrs.
A. E. Solway and Son), 2;
Pendle Park Beacon’s Ida, 3;
Francliff Beryl 88th (S. H.
Ward), 4.
18m. and under 2y., dry: Beau-
mont Dreamer's Lotus, 1;
Branston Pioneer’s Snowdrop
(J. M. Kirton), 2; Beaumont
Dreamer’s Girl, 3; Oaklaw
Rose Leaf, 4; Llanillo Leading
Duchess, 5.
12m. and under 18m.: Oaklaw
Fancy, 1; Lawrence’s Design’s
Picture (A. J. McPhee), 2;


Oaklaw Queen, 3; Llanillo
Golden Jessie, 4.
3m. and under 12m.: Oaklaw May
Day, 1; Hunterfield Jester’s
Delph (P. R. Weidmann), 2;
Branston Dainty (Kirton), 3;
Beaumont Dreamer’s Pert
2nd, 4.
Bull, over 4y.: Bemersyde Arthur,
1; The Hills Royal Design
(McPhee), 2; Wyarie Admiral
(Grey), 3; Shepstone Sunray
(W. I. Braithwaite and Son), 4.
3y. and under 4y.: Lawrence Blue
Light, 1 ; Wollingurry Landau,
2; Bemersyde Champion,- 3;
Wilgo Silver King, 4.
2y. and under 3y.: Oxford Brilliant
Dreamer (Grey), 1; Wollin-
gurry Pentheus, 2; Llanillo
Opa’s Dreamer, 3.
GUERNSEYS
Champion bull: Killarney
Aristocrat (D. G. Mc-
Kenzie).
Reserve: Bodalla Dido's Nep-
tune (Bodalla Co., Ltd.).
“Look, Dad, it's had pups!"
Junior: Overport Viceroy
(Bodalia Co., Ltd.).
Reserve: Overport Tidy’s
Robert 2nd (R. G. Wat-
son).
Champion cow or heifer:
Moongi Bonnie 4th (E. E.
Cooke).
Reserve: Violet Hill Topsy
(D. G. McKenzie).
Junior: Carmendy Dell Rene
(A. W. Simpson).
Reserve: Tristania Twinkling
Star (A. Phillis and Son).
Over 5y., in milk: Moongi Bonnie
4th, 1; Glenoak Glenora (C. R.
Emery), 2; Rose Villa Gwen
(Simpson), 3.
4y. and under sy„ in milk: Meadow
Park Ella (J. A. Murray), 1;
Tristina Brenda (A. Phillis and
Son), 2; Vermont Jeanette
(Dr. F. G. Stephens and Son),
3; Wollongbar Flares Rose
(Department of Agriculture), 4.
3y. and under 4y., in milk: Ver-
mont Buttercup and Vermont
Pretty Polly 2nd (Stephens), 1
and 2.
2y. and under 3y., in milk: Violet
Hill Topsy, 1; Vermont Sailor’s
Girl, 2; Yanco Montrose
Vamp (Department of Agricul-
ture), 3.
Over 5y., in calf, dry: Wollongbar
Flares Glory (Department of
Agriculture), 1; Tristania
Dainty Girl (Bodalla Co.), 2;
Meadow Park Eve and Violet
Hill Phyllis (McKenzie), 3
and 4.
4y. and under 5y., in calf, dry:
Wollongbar Vera’s Amber, 1 ;
Moongi Nice Girl (Cooke), 2;
Violet Hill Emma, 3.
3y. and under 4y., in calf, dry:
Tristania Miss Dainty (Phillis),
1; Wollongbar Flares Vera, 2.
2y. and under 3y., in calf, dry:
Bodalla Marie and Bodalla
Lady Betty, 1 and 4; Moongi
Bonnie’s Bestgirl (Cooke), 2;
Ingle v a 1 e Lucky Lady
(Phillis), 3.
18m. and under 2y., in milk:
Carwendy Dell Rene, 1;
Tristania Twinkling Star, 2.
18m. and under 2y., dry: Tristania
True Girl (Emery), 1; Bodalla
Fun’s Delight, 2; Yanco Cham-
pion Ursula (Department of
Agriculture), 3; Murribrook
Trilby 2nd (J. A. Murray), 4.
12m. and under 18m.: Murribrook
Silver Bell 2nd (Murray), 1;
Overport Pepita and Overport
Quality (Watson), 2 and 3:
Mount Penang Frill (Child
Welfare Department); 4.
3m. and under 12m.: Overport
Rosalie (Watson), 1; Violet
Hill Alvetta, 2; Moongi Pretty
Lorna, 3; Bodalla Virginia, 4.
Bull, over 4y.: Killarney Aristocrat,
1; Moongi Royal -Highness, 2 ;
Wollongbar Flares, 3.
3y. and under 4y.: Vermont
Jester, 1 ; Capri Ambassador
(G. L. Donato), 2.
2y. and under 3y.: Bodalla Dido’s
Neptune, 1; Tristania Master
(Emery), 2; Carwendy Dell
Victor (Simpson), 3; Yanco
Gloria’s Pilot (Department of
Agriculture), 4.
18m. and under 2y.: Overport
Viceroy, 1; Vermont Dainty’s
Nobleman, 2; Capri Top Ruler
(Donato), 3. „
12m. and under 18m.: Overport
Tidy’s Robert 2nd, 1; Yanco
Dorothy’s Montrose, 2; Ver-
mont Peter, 3.
3m. and under 12m.: Moongi
Royal Highness 3rd, 1; Ver-
mont Nugget, 2; Mount
Penang Auditor, 3; Bodalla
Maximillian, 4.
FRIESIANS
Champion bull: Joselyn Royal
r j /wj r' ur*, v
Lad (W. Clltton).
Reserve: Brundee Lunta
Romeo 2nd (V T
Komeo /na (V. j.
Lamond). -
Junior: Carmar Stately Snow-
man (Ray Brothers).
J
Reserve: Brundee Baby States-
man (V. J. Lamond).
_ , . . ..
Champion cow or heiter:
Brundee Echo Pride 17th
(J. Calcraft).
Reserve : Meadow Glen
Colantha Dinah (J. Cal-
craft).
Over 5y., in milk: Wyoming Mary
May (A. S. R. Shearer and
Son), 1 ; Brundee Helene May
(V. J. Lamond), 2; Glencraig
Royal Lady (J. H. Wilson, Pty.,
Ltd.), 3; Sunshine Walker
Maida 10th (T. Egan), 4.
4y. and under 5y., in milk: Brundee
Echo Pride 17th (J. Calcraft),
1 ; Glenorma Jill (S. G. Nelson),
2; Boomerona Champagne
(Lamond), 3; Hawkesbury
Netherland Belfrette 2nd
(Department of Agriculture), 4.
3y. and under 4y., in milk:
Meadow Glen Colantha Dinah,
1; Joselyn Damsel Pietje
(Clifton), 2; Glenorma
Imperial Pearl (Nelson), 3;
Brundee Lunta Lady Bth
(Lamond), 4.
2y. and under 3y., in milk : Brundee
Pride Translass (H. T. Wilcox),
1; Glenorma Sabrina (Nelson),
2; Meadow Glen Reunion Pie
and Meadow Glen Reunion
Bee (Calcraft), 3 and 4.
18m. and under 2y., in milk:
Meadow Glen Reunion
Tweedledum (Calcraft), 1;
Mount Broughton Cressy
Princess (Wilson Pty., Ltd.), 2;
Coomungle Adema Pontiac
(E. R. Armour), 3; Glenorma
Roberta Girl (Nelson), 4.
Over sy. in calf, dry: Willowglen
Queen 2nd (E. R. Armour), 1;
Sunshine Walker Maida 7th
(Egan), 2; Wyoming Sunshine
Maid (Shearer), 3; The
Meadows Alcantra Tweedle-
dum (Calcraft), 4.
4y. and under 5y., in calf, dry:
Wyoming Dewdrop Luckyland
(Shearer), 1; Glenorma Faith-
ful and Glenorma Tessa
(Nelson), 2 and 3.
3y. and under 4y., in calf, dry:
Wyoming Petal’s Pet (Shearer),
1; Brundee Marion Princess 6th
(H - A - Turner )’ 2 i Glencraig
Jo Rose (W ilsons Pty., Ltd.),
3; Hawkesbury King Rose-
maid, 4.
2 *- and under ul J y -j n c £ lf ’, K dry ;
Picton Debbie (Ray Brothers),
1 ; Mount' Broughton Dot 2nd
(Wilson Pty., Ltd.), 2; Echo
Hills Dorese (Lamond), 3;
Meadow Glen Reunion (Cal-
craft), 4.
IBm. and under 2y.: Navua Piebe
Roberta 11th.
12m - and M nder : Joselyn
WyomingTr Nett
(Shearer), 2; Nevada Heilo
Dekol sth and Nevada Heilo
Suzanne 2nd (C. F. and J. N.
Cook), 3 and 4.
3m. and under 12m.: Glenorma
Princess Gloria and Glenorma
Alana (Nelson), 1 and 2;
Clarendon Netherland Fancy
(T. K. Want), 3 ; Meadow
Glen Reunion Tirxet (Cai-
craft), 4.
Bull, .over 4y.: Joselyn Royal Lad,
1; Brundee Lunta Romeo 2nd,
2; Joselyn Damsel Prince 2nd,
3; Brundee Lunta Julian, 4.
3y. and under 4y.: Brundee Dekol
Transvaal (H. T. Wilcox), 1;
Brundee Janice Johan
(Lamond), 2; Indiana Gold-
mine (Wilsons Pty., Ltd.), 3;
Navua Piebe Emperor (C. K.
and J. C. Hill), 4.
2y. and under 3y.: Indiana Path-
finder (Nelson), 1; Nevada
Whynot Chief (Cook), 2;
Meadow Glen Re Casanova
(Calcraft), 3.
18m. and under 2y.: Carmar
Stately Snowman, 1 ; Hawkes-
bury Bonnie Conqueror, 2;
Wyoming Blue Royal (Shearer),
3; Mount Broughton ‘Gold
Duke (Franciscan Missionaries
of Mary), 4.
12m. and under 18m.: Brundee
Baby Statesman (Lamond), 1;
Joselyn New Year Don
(Clifton), 2; Woodleigh Mer-
cedes Pride (H. A. 'Turner), 3 ;
Hawkesbury Prince Regent, 4.
3m. and under 12m.: Wyoming
Best Lad and Wyoming Leila
Supreme (Shearer), 1 and 3;
Laurel Prince George (Armour),
2; Mount Broughton
Ormsby, 4.


Public Notice
FRANCES MARY FROST, formerly of
Sutton Forest, in the State of New South
M ales, Spinster, deceased, intestate, who
died on the 20th day of November, 1948,
aged over 60 years. Parentage unknown.
Resided in New South M'ales most of
life. Reputed born Tasmania.—PUR-
SUANT TO a decretal order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in
its Equitable Jurisdiction dated the
29th day of August, 1958, and made in
suit No. 1225 of 1957 whereby it wag
directed that an inquiry be held to
ascertain who were the persons entitled
according to the Statutes for the Dis-
tribution of Intestate Estates, to the
estate of the abovenamed FRANCES
MARY FROST, deceased, living at her
death and whether any of them are since
dead and, if so, who are their respective
legal personal representatives. NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiry are to send by post pre-paid
to the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, O’Connell
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., so as to reach
him on or before the 31st August, 1959,
their full Christian and surnames,
addresses and descriptions, and full par-
ticulars of their claims, or in default
thereof they will be excluded from-the
benefit of the said decretal order, unless
the Court or a Judge or the Master in
Equity otherwise orders. Claimants are
to attend personally or by Solicitor or
Counsel before the Master in Equity at
the Supreme Court, Elizabeth Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., on the 28th September,
1959, at 11 a.m., being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the
claims, and must then be prepared to
prove their claims by proper legal evi-
dence. A claimant not residing in New
South Wales must send with the par-
ticulars of his or her claim the names
and address of a person in New South
M r ales to whom notice to the claimant
can be sent. Claimants are advised to
send their particulars of claim by two
mails at an interval of three or four
days. DATED the 23rd dav of March,
1959.—McMASTER HOLLAND & CO.,
Solicitors for the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Scapegoats of the Empire,
by Lt. G. R. Witton.—6BoB.
To buy a gold-blocking machine,
brass printers’ type and a “Rejafix”
marking-machine.—6Bl2.
Three copies of Arthur Mailey’s
Cricket Book of Sketches; one copy
of Evelyn Waugh’s The Loved One.
—6BlO.
Correct or complete version of
the following, verse (said to have
been written by Henry Lawson):
Nine miles we trudged
From Sandy’s pub
The Christmas sky was o’er us
Through dust and heat
And blistered feet
Lake Eliza lay before us.
It was a lonely pub
In a mulga scrub
And the lake was dry beside her
You could pass it a dozen times
And never be any the wiser.
—6Bll.
An unabridged version of “The
Dog Sat On the Tucker-box.” —
6809.
Information Sought
(1) Who wrote the “book” of
“A Waltz Dream,” by Oscar
Straus ? (2) When was 1 it first pro-
duced in London ? (3) Short out-
line of the plot.
(1) Felix Doermann and Leopold
Jacobson. (2) First played in Eng-
land at the Hicks Theatre, London,
on Mar. 7, 1908; English adapta-
tion by Joseph Herbert. (3) Lieut.
Niki, of the Austrian Army, has
been compelled by the Emperor to
marry Princess Helene, of a neigh-
boring State, and at the curtain-
rise the wedding is shown. It’s a
one-sided match —the Princess is
willing, but Lieut. Niki wants to
return to Vienna by himself. This
longing is intensified when he hears
the strains of a waltz. He prevails
on a brother-officer, Montschi, to
stay by the Princess while he steals
off to see Franzi, a girl violinist
who leads the musicians. A love-
affair between Niki and Franzi
follows until Franzi discovers that
Niki is the Prince Consort, and is
persuaded to give him up.
• * * •
What are some (if any) of the
beneficial and curative properties of
sea-water ?
Spa treatment and sea-water
bathing are popular in some Euro-
pean countries, although it is
generally considered that any bene-
fit derived from sea-bathing is not
so much from the healing effects
of sea-water as the holiday atmos-
phere and the temporary release
from daily stresses and strains. In
sea-water bathing the action is a
purely local one —neither the salt
nor the water is absorbed. Sea-
water induces a slightly irritant
effect on the skin, which may
improve its circulation and nutri-
tion and so prove helpful for some
skin-diseases. Constant immersion
tends to deaden the sensitivity of
skin-vessels to salt- and cold-water.
In some diseases of the stomach
drinking a weak salt solution may
also be beneficial. The action is
similar to that of the skin—a mild
irritation and increased blood move-
ment in the deeper layers of the
stomach. But the usual sea-water
would be too saline for this purpose,
and, if taken in the quantities
recommended for spa treatment,
would cause nausea and vomiting.
The only mineral in sea-water which
could be regarded as beneficial is
common salt. The approximate
mineral content of sea-water on the
Australian coast per 1000 grammes
of water is: Cl, 18.980; Na, 10.556;
SO4, 2.649; Mg, 1.272; Ca, 0.400;
K, 0.380; carbonic-acid as
H CO3 , 0.140; Br, 0.065; Sr,
0.013; boric-acid, 0.026; fluoride,
0.001, giving a total of 34.482
grammes.
* * * *
Recipe for orange-wine ?
Select ripe oranges. Peel and
cut across; squeeze into wooden
tub, discarding pips. Add 21b.
sugar to each lb. of sour juice, or
lib. to sweet juice. Add one quart
water to each gallon of juice and
sugar, strain into a cask (which
should be filled) and allow to fer-
ment. When working ceases, bung
tight, bottling in six months.
Remember that wine of this type
comes under excise laws.
* * * *
General information on making a
fish-trap ?
Take three iron hoops 4ft. in
diameter and two pieces of wire-
netting each 12ft. 6in. by 42in. wide.
Join netting together to make a
strip 7ft. by 12ft. 6in. Fasten this
around hoops to form a cylinder,
one hoop at each end and one in
the middle. Close one end with
netting. Then construct a funnel
3ft. 6in. long, 4ft. in diameter at
one end and lOin. to 12in. at the
other. Fasten this in trap at other
end to make an entrance, using
wire stays along funnel to make it
rigid, and cover with netting. Leave
wire stay-ends jagged at small end
of funnel. Attach a piece of strong
wire to each end of trap for tether-
ing. This trap will catch fresh-
water fish up to 91b. A larger
trap can be made with a funnel at
each end.
*** • *
How to make barbola modelling-
paste ?
Ingredients: ordinary var-
nish, |oz. boiled linseed-oil, 4oz.
glue and some whiting. Dissolve
the glue over gentle heat by putting
the container in water; when it
has the consistency of thin treacle
add the varnish and oil, stirring all
the time. Sieve the whiting through
muslin, adding gradually to the
mixture until it is a thin paste.
Test by putting some on a smooth
surface; if it spreads, add a little
more whiting. Pour into a tin or
glass jar while warm, and screw
lid on tightly. Another method is
to buy ready-mixed gesso-powder
and mix with cold water as required.
Brief Answers
P.H.: Age of the garment and
process by which it was originally
dyed would have to be determined
by a specialist, and inspection would
be necessary. Try Mark Mayne
Pty., Ltd., 16 Hunter Street, Sydney ;
The Bay Dyeing and Cleaning Pty.,
Ltd., 153 Bayswater Road, Rush-
cutter Bay, Sydney; or, for further
advice, Dry Cleaners and Dyers
Association of N.S.W., 12 O’Connell
Street, Sydney... .H.C.: Try “Wool
Technology,” issues of which con-
tain the sort of information you
require. Write to the School of
Wool Technology, Forbes Street,
Darlinghurst, Sydney, for copies.
“ Whaffor”: Everv newspaper
has its own rules regarding hyphena-
tion and spelling of certain words.
... .T.G.: Firebricks can’t very well
be made by an amateur; the process
requires not only considerable plant
but specialised technical knowledge.
... .8.T.: The word “Maru” means
“precious” or “important,” and
was formerly attached to such places
as the central room in a Japanese
castle. Later it came to be applied
to merchant-vessels, though it has
no nautical significance... .S.A.F.:
Churinga is the name applied to an
aboriginal totemic ceremony, to a
wooden or stone slab associated
with the spirit of each individual,
or to anything regarded as sacred.
Alchuringa is synonymous with
Alchera, which means the time
during which the ancestors of the
totemic groups arose; it is also
applied to the totem and to every-
thing associated with it. For fuller
information refer to Spencer and
Gillen’s The Arunta. .. .H.S.S.:
The Fiji Islands were discovered
by Tasman in 1643 and visited by
Cook in 1769. Sovereignty was
ceded to Britain in 1874. German
New Guinea was occupied by an
Australian force on Sept. 12, 1914.
....E.T.K.: A fresco is not neces-
sarily a frieze, though it can take
that form; it is a method of paint-
ing in watercolor on damp lime-
plaster so that when the plaster
dries the colors are embedded in
its surface... .A.H.N.: Ritornello
means “A little return” or “little
repetition.” It is frequently applied
to a short instrumental melody
played between the scenes of an
opera, and to the symphonies intro-
duced between the vocal phrases of
a song or anthem —a usage found
abundantly in opera and church-
music of the 17th and 18th cen-
turies. It is also an ancient form
of Italian verse in which each
strophe consists of three lines, the
first and third of which rhyme with
each other after the manner of
Dante's Terza Rima.... T.K.: You
would have no priority, but would
rank for distribution with the ordin-
ary creditors R.P.N.T.C.: Sir
Charles Kingsford Smith was born
at Brisbane on Feb. 9, 1897. He
enlisted at 18 in the Signal
Engineers, A.1.F., later transferring
to the R.F.C. He was wounded in
August', 1917, and was subsequently
a flying-instructor... .S.G.: Suggest
you write either to Fina Products
Pty., Ltd., 468 Parramatta Road,
Petersham, N.S.W., or Dickson and
Johnson Pty., Ltd., corner Parra-
matta Road and Gallipoli Street,
Lidcombe, N.S.W 1.5.: (1)
Sorry, but the copy of the magazine
seems to have gone astray some-
where. Will return it if possible.
(2) He’s made those threats more
than once, but his chances of ever
being able to carry them out are
remote L.C.: (1) Drawing of
that art-union took place on Mar.
31. Write Air Force Association,
330 George Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
A.J.K.: We’re fed-up to the
molars with the “clean-limbed”
hero; what about trotting-out one
now and then who has a hatred of
soap? N.N.F.: We quote a
charming couplet:
Her eyes with unshed tears were a-blur
As she read of his demise in the news-
paper.
L.G.: “I hope to reach at
least the foothills of Parnassus.”
Well, at present you're still under-
ground 0.V.G.: Any resem-
blance between what you submitted
and a story-plot is entirely acciden-
tal.... D.U.: Your heroine’s
phrases would match a forest giant
for their wood-content.... K.8.F.:
“Could you give me an honest
opinion on my poem?” Sorry,
honesty would be a heroic policy....
S.C.W.: “‘I thought it rather funny
not being told of the accident till
so long after,’ said Harvey.”
Perhaps they wanted him to enjoy
a good laugh then instead of when
he did get to hear of it... .R.D.C.:
“If this story is unacceptable to
you I shall not send any more.”
That constitutes far less a threat
than a promise... .J.R.: Relax and
try to capture some of the real life
around you. It’s bound to
be more interesting... .H.M.R.:
We gave your neurotic heroine a
sniff of smelling-salts before sending
her home.... V.Y.: Try de-
starching your dialogue... .K.R.:
Idea lost in a pea-soup fog of words.
P.T.: Your Pegasus badly
needs re-hairing... .8.N.L.: Your
poem “The Rock” isn’t heavy
enough to pound open the office
peter... .F.Y.: It reads like an
interchange of solicitors’ letters.
. ...G.8.; Rather too mechanical.
Try to write more naturally
R.W.: Well, who did bump-off the
shearers’ cook? 8.D.: Patchy,


New Recordings
Smooth Variety
In Just for Variety, Vol. 7
(Capitol T-950), there is plenty
of variety, both in performers
and presentation. The record
is like a box of expensive hand-
filled chocolates. Every item is
handled by a big name.
There is Nat “King” Cole,
with his usual smooth
approach, in “Unbelievable” ;
a bit of brilliantly splashy
orchestral playing, courtesy
Jackie Gleason; Kay Starr
vigorously rhythmic in “Side
by Side” ; and the Four
Knights, who, judging by their
interpretation of “It’s No Sin,”
are well in the Luboff tradition
of gentle singing. Harry James
blows golden smoke-rings from
his trumpet in “Sleepy
Lagoon,” and, while there are
no dazzling virtuoso touches,
his playing is, as always,
extremely confident and true.
The reverse side opens with
Billy May and his orchestra’s
souped-up version of the Sere-
nade from “The Student
Prince,” which this writer
seems to remember as a rather
tender —even moving song.
The new treatment doesn’t fit;
in particular the use of brass
and saxophones seems vulgar.
Straight after this Dean
Martin asks the listener “Who’s
Your Little Who-zis?” a
curious question, but Martin
is a pretty smart practitioner,
so there are no real worries.
So intense is the beat of
George Shearing’s “Cuban
Fantasy” that you have a
terrific urge to stamp around
the room in time to it. The
high-fidelity engineering shows-
up very well in the drum
passages. June Christy demon-
strates in “Midnight Sun” how
to make something of second-
rate material; Joe Bushkin
spreads a wild-ivy pattern of
piano-notes over an orchestral
trellis; and Ella May Morse
croons “40 Cups of Coffee”
against strings and about 40
fiery trumpets.
A rich and outstandingly
recorded disk, fresh as a sea-
breeze.
* ❖
Hymns
“Tennessee” Ernie Ford,
singing favorite hymns on a
disk labelled Nearer the Cross
(Capitol T 1005), sounds occa-
sionally like a Southern darkie
in a cottonfield, often like an
above-average church soloist.
Ford is helped by a smooth
American background of
humming voices, bell effects
and a lushly lyrical Wurlitzer.
This is just the record for
a dear, nice aunt who knows
nothing about voice-produc-
tion. If she did, she'd pinpoint
Ford’s habit of “scoopiftf*
from note to note-all very
well for pop.-songs, but when
applied to church-music (even
of this calibre) the total effect
is of sentimental slickness.
<£♦
Stainer’s “Crucifixion”
Easter has brought many
things, among them a G.F.M.
recording of Stainer’s “Cruci-
fixion” (W 4006). It’s done by
the New Jersey Oratorio
Society, conducted by Clarence
Snyder, with Frank Scherer at
the organ of St. Luke’s
Church, Montclair, New Jer-
sey. Tenor soloist is John
McCollum; bass, Chester
Watson.
Whatever one may feel
about the music itself, well-
disciplined choral singing
serves as a diversion. It's
certainly good to hear careful
shadings and gradation in
volume, and for an American
choir the diction is very good
indeed “Jesu” pronounced
“Yay-su,” for instance: one
imagines the director of the
Royal School of Church
Music nodding in delight.
The organ is used symphoni-
cally, which is at once allow-
able and unfortunate. Justi-
fiable to a certain extent —a
work of this type approaches
a stage-production (whether
of the same class as Schutz or
Bach is another matter). There
are distinct characters: the
narrator, Christ, the chorus,
etc. So the music has to play
a big part: it must suggest, but
not dictate ; it must be sympa-
thetic, but not mushy.
The opening recitative and
the following solo-chorus sec-
tion illustrate the disadvantage
of treating the organ orchest-
rally. It just doesn’t work, and
here the tone goes close to a
Wurlitzer’s. Not until the
superb chorus “Fling Wide the
Gates” does the organ spring
out untarnished by theatrical
effects. And, to make things
even brighter, the organist’s
phrasing is weilnigh im-
peccable.
One hardly had time to
debate whether the organist
was returning to orchestral
imitation before the choir sang
the short hymn “Cross of
Jesus” (interspersed between
two recitatives) and sang it
tidily, except that the final
rollentando seemed too drawn-
out. But a fault such as this is
not a specific oddity of
American choirs. All too often
one has heard better-known
groups indulging in much the
same thing—it seems to bear
out the contention that,
basically, a choir is more a
group of human-beings than a
machine. The degree of a
choir’s effectiveness depends on
how it responds as an inte-
grated body.
The tenor’s long solo “King
Ever Glorious” is over-
emphasised, but he does better
on the second side, just before
the end. Viewed as a whole,
this is the best' version present
writer has come across. It can
be heartily recommended to
those local churches where,
every year, “The Crucifixion”
is more-or-less performed.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“ That's the sort of job that would suit you!"


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Mrs. Henry Bolte, popular wife of the
Premier, is being given a round of fare-
well parties before she leaves with her
husband late this month for overseas.
This Letter met Mrs. Bolte at a luncheon
at which many distinguished women were
present to offer their good wishes. Her
attractive frock of white cotton patterned
in brilliant flowers was greatly admired.
Another guest was Mrs. Maurice Nathan,
who with her husband, Cr. Nathan, a
member of the Promote Victoria com-
mittee, will travel in the Premier’s party.
Other guests were Lady McDonald (wife
of the Speaker of the Legislative
Assembly), the Lady Mayoress (Mrs.
F. W. Thomas), Lady Selleck, Dame
Mary Daly, Senator Ivy Wedgwood, Lady
Smithers, Lady Warner, Lady Jungwirth,
Mrs. A. A. Lord, Mrs. Robert Wyllie (Dr.
Barbara Russell formerly of Adelaide),
Mrs. Bernard Evans, Mrs. John Carrodus,
Mrs. Frank Christie, Mrs. John Buckland,
Mrs. Garnet Carroll, Mrs. S. Aardns, Mrs.
Helen Strachan, Mrs. Constance Day,
Mrs. Roy Dixon and Miss Nell House.
☆ ☆ ☆
Moira Lister scored a direct hit when
she opened her season of storytelling
about People in Love. At this premiere
Sir Edmund Herring launched the
Tweddle Baby Hospital Appeal for
£50,000. On their arrival guests entered
Nicholas Hall through a guard-of-honor
of Primrose nurses and mothercraft
trainees from the hospital. With Sir
Edmund was Lady Herring, who is
patroness of the hospital. They were
received by Sir Frank Kingsley Norris,
chairman of the appeal, and Lady Norris ;
the president of the Tweddle council
(Lady Angliss), and the chairman of the
Tweddle building-committee (Mr. A. S. H.
Gifford).
Lady Herring chose a gown of black
lace. The Lady Mayoress’s gown of black
chiffon had a finely-tucked bodice, a
scoop-neckline and graceful flowing skirt.
Lady Norris chose violet delustred-satin,
Lady Angliss emerald-green satin. Mrs.
Garent Carroll’s frock of silk-chiffon in
soft honey tonings was worn with a
theatre-coat of cinnamon-brown pure-
silk. Committee-member Mrs. Z. Econo-
mou wore, a gown of teal-blue satin and
a matching stole. Diana Knox’s white
cottons were gaily patterned.
☆
Magnificent flower - arrangements
decorated the ballroom and reception-
rooms of the Toorak home of Mr. and
Mrs. George Laurens when 230 guests
were entertained at a special party to
celebrate the engagement of their elder
daughter Diana to David, younger son
of Mr. and Mrs. Angus Jones, also of
Toorak. An elegant gown of steel-grey
satin, short and cut on sheath-lines and
highlighted with deeper-grey beads, was
worn by Mrs. Laurens. Mrs. Jones, who
had arranged the flowers, chose a short
frock of white-and-gold brocade. Diana’s
frock of French re-embroidered guipure-
lace in aqua-blue tonings had a wide
scoop-neckline and short sleeves, and
featured a peacock-hem. Her sister Fav
wore a dusty-pink silk-shantung frock.
The day also marked the silver-wedding
anniversary of the host and hostess.
Noted among Diana’s friends at the
party Gail Challingsworth, whose attrac-
tive frock and jacket were of ink-blue
taffeta patterned in a lighter blue design ;
Penny Lane, whose white cotton frock
had a blue flower-design ; Carol Visbord,
her choice a short bouffant frock of
black taffeta ; Judith Storey, her white
cottons patterned in colored fans ; Jenny
Stratman, whose lovely frock of white
cotton was patterned in cornflowers;
and Mrs. Tony Arnold (formerly Rose-
mary Armitage). Other guests were Mr.
and Mrs. Leon Ress (her frock was of
scarlet silk-shantung); Mr. and Mrs.
John Carrodus, Mr. and Mrs. Royden
Honeyman, Mr, and Mrs. George Griffith,
M-r. and Mrs. Barry West and Mr. and
Mrs. M. Ress (she looked charming in
a frock of royal-blue chiffon).
Judith Storey, daughter of Lady Storey,
of East Malvern, and the late Sir John
Storey, will fly to America on April 10
with her sister, Mrs. Ralph Von Kohorn,
who is returning to her home in West-
chester, New York, and with whom
Judith will stay for several months while
she studies interior-design. She wilt
return by way of Trinidad, where she
will holiday. Judith has resigned from
the hon. assistant-secretaryship of the
Junior Australian-American Association.
White, blue and gold flowers decorated
Toorak Presbyterian Church for the wed-
ding of Ailsa Holyman and Robert Giles.
Ailsa, who is the only daughter of Lady
Holyman, of Toorak, and the late Sir
Ivan Holyman, chose a long-sleeved gown
of white delustred-satin which featured
a well-shaped skirt. Her fingertip veil
was held by a cap of orange-blossom,
and she carried a bouquet of stephanotis
and gardenias. The bridesmaids, Mary
Elizabeth Fitzgerald and Elizabeth
Gutteridge, wore long froqks of white
faille with unusual crystal beading on
the gores of the full skirt, and white
veils; they carried white roses. The
flower-girl, the bride’s cousin Gillian
Holyman, wore a short white organdie
frock bordered with blue flowers and
finished with a blue sash. The bride-
groom, the only son of Lt.-Colonel and
Mrs. N. R. Giles, of Amersham, Buck-
inghamshire, England, had Richard
Alsop as best man. The bride’s youngest
brother Derek was groomsman. Recep-
tion was at the Hotel Australia.
☆ ☆ ☆
To say goodbye to the many friends
they have made while living in this city,
the U.S. naval attache, Captain Clarence
White, and his wife (who leave for Can-
berra next Saturday) gave a cocktail-party
in the Bamboo Room at Chevron.
Among those entertained were the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs.
F. W. Thomas), Rear-Admiral and Mrs.
W. H. Harrington, Mr. and Mrs. Walter
Killough (she looked stunning in a short
sheath-frock of royal-blue satin and a
white Arctic-fox stole), Surgeon-Rear-
Admiral L. Lockwood and his wife,
Lieut.-General and Mrs. E. K. Smart,
Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Gibson, and
Japanese Consul N. Nomoto and Mrs.
Nomoto.
☆ ☆ ☆
The days of the gold-rush inspired the
decorations used at the fourth White
and Gold dinner-dance, held at the
Dorchester, and organised by the Wool
Ball Committee, which works for the
Ramsay Mailer Opportunity Youth Club.
On the tables were white candles set in
nuggets of “gold,” and adding their
attractive notes to the color-scheme were
bowls of white and gold flowers and
balloons in the same colors. Youthful
president of the committee Elizabeth
Mildred looked attractive in a white
baby-doll frock patterned in muted
tonings. In her party was Simone
Pirenne, from Sydney, the wide skirt of
her tulle gown looped over white lace
and finished with a back panel of pale-
gold taffeta.
Among other attractive girls at the
dance were Carmen Clarke, whose white
gown was patterned in autumn tonings;
Angela Rau, her choice a bouffant frock
of grey, patterned in large pink roses ;
Ann Curtis, whose short sheath-frock was
of deep-cream lace ; Sue Pleasance, whose
formal gown of white lace had the bell-
skirt trimmed down the back with tiny
bows ; Fleur Mein, her full-skirted frock
of white pique having guipure - lace
appliqued on the bodice ; Eve Grimwade,
who chose a short, full frock of scarlet
taffeta ; her sister Rosanne, her white
frock patterned in blue, red and yellow ;
and Diana Bodycomb, whose brocades
were sea-green.


SYDNEY
The Sydney Opera House Easter Ball
attracted about 850 dancers to the Town
Hall, which had been quite elegantly
decorated with silvered palm-fronds and
festoons of white muslin sparkled with
silver. The Governor and Lady Wood-
ward were there, received by president
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, in a dress of
contrasting black, wool against velvet—-
very effective. The prize for the most
beautiful tout ensemble went to Mrs. Bill
Mcßae (white draped silk with a coat
of aqua chiffon); Mrs. Max Sturzen,
second (slim dress of cream guipure-lace),
and Mrs. John Trenerry, third. Among
the many other beautiful dresses were
those worn by Mrs. J. K. Schartl (orchid-
satin embroidered with crystal and pearl
and topped with a white-satin coat), Mrs.
Lloyd Lewis, who designed the decora-
tions and who wore white heavy satin in
Empire-line with a turquoise-satin coat,
and Mrs. Bob Mclnerney, whose Empire
dress was also in satin with its tiny white
bodice, slim black skirt with sash and
back-panels in Schiaparelli-pink.
* # *
It was delightful to see at the annual
dance of the ex-students of the Rose Bay
Convent of the Sacred Heart one of the
school’s original students, Mrs. C. J.
McDermott, who saw her granddaughter,
Anne McDermott, make her debut. Anne
is the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Mc-
Dermott, of Roseville. The 14 debs, were
presented to Sir Edward and Lady Mc-
Tiernan (who is herself an ex-student),
and the president, Mrs. Austin Curtin,
received the guests, assisted by the
honorary-secretary, Mrs. Bud Macken.
The ball was held at Mark Foy’s
Empress Rooms.
* ☆ *
The gala-dinner to inaugurate the
parade of Japanese fashions at Mark
Foy’s was attended by the wife of the
Japanese Consul-General, Mrs. K.
Inagaki, and it was charming to see the
graceful bow that each pretty little
mannequin made to the official party at
every appearance. The Leader of the
Opposition, Mr. Pat Morton, and Mrs.
Morton were members of the official
party, which was welcomed by Mr. and
Mrs. Hugh Macken.
Simplicity of line and richness of
fabric marked the clothes, which incor-
porated the latest Western fashion-trends
with Eastern imaginativeness. Curiosities
were the elaborate wigs worn for even-
ing, the pretty hair-ornaments and the
hats. The beautiful kimonos which were
shown should start a fashion for the
style in leisure-wear and even for evening-
coats. The clothes were designed in
Tokyo by Madame Tsuneko Sakai and
were worn by six exquisite-looking
Japanese fashion-models.
☆ ☆ ☆
The problems set so 'many hospitals
and children’s homes by the pernicious
“golden staph” are being met at the
Infants’ Home, Ashfield, by a plan to
keep all babies under 12 months com-
pletely separate from the other little ones.
This has necessitated the building of a
complete new annexe, which has been
dedicated to the late Mr. A. L. Rigby,
one of the home’s greatest benefactors,
and was opened during the week by the
Governor, Sir Eric Woodward. Mrs.
C. P. Johnstone welcomed the Governor
and Lady Woodward (who is patroness
of the home), and among those who
attended were the Mayor of Ashfield
(Aid. C. A. Bullivant) and Mrs. Bulli-
vant, Mr. L. K. Rath, M.8.E., and Mr.
David Hunter, M.L.A., and Mr. A. L.
Rigby, Jr.
Marea Stenmark is one of that gifted
group who write and perform in the
series of witty revues presented at Santa
Sabina, Strathfield, in aid of Dominican
charities. Their new offering, fust about
due now, is called “Gone to the Pack,”
and is to have five performances at the
convent, on April 16, 18, 20, 22 and 23.
Marea, who has a beautiful contralto
voice, was photographed for this Letter
by Norton Trevaire.
Seeing artist Paul Jones, who with
Mrs. Deke Coleman and Mr. Charles
Moses judged the dresses at the Opera
House Ball, one could not help thinking
of the talented family to which he
belongs. He, of course, is a noted artist,
acclaimed as one of the world’s finest
flower-painters, and Sydney knows also
those beautiful dolls dressed in period-
costume which his mother, Mrs. Marie
Jones, sometimes shows in exhibitions for
charity. Mrs. Jones, who was Marie
Beedham, known for her fashion- and
fine-art work, has brought up the family ;
her husband, Mr. B. Osborne Jones,
manager of the display-department for
Farmer and Co., died when the children
were very young.
But it was meeting her daughter,
Roberta Jones, at the Terry Clune Gallery
that made one realise how gifted the
whole family is. Roberta does ceramic
work, mostly earrings of original design,
brooches, pendants and cuff-links in
intaglio. To her, every piece is an
original, for she hates repetition, but as
she bakes a batch (like scones!) of 400
earrings in her electric kiln at one time,
she keeps the price amazingly low. Aus-
tralian motifs interest her, but she gets
her ideas from everywhere—an ancient
coin, an old hunting-scene or a family
portrait in miniature. Her aim is to be
a display-consultant, and her dream to
go to Italy for six months.
Other artistic members of the family
are her sister Frances, who is responsible
for many of the new, original Christmas-
cards which it has been possible to buy
of late years, and her brother Bernard,
who designs beautiful furniture (he lately
made an exquisite miniature 18th-century
chair for his mother). They all live
together in a new house at Roseville,
surrounded on three sides by bushland
and filled, as one would expect, with
beautiful things.
☆ ☆ ☆
A completely new type of fashion-
parade is to be seen in Sydney on the
night of Thursday, April 23. It will show
high - fashion clothes specially designed
for disabled people, including children,
and will pay particular attention to
people confined to wheel-chairs. The
idea comes from New York, where a
similar parade was held last October with
great success. The Australian Associa-
tion of Occupational Therapists will hold
the parade at their training-centre in
Elizabeth Street, and it should be of great
help and value to all who are interested
in the welfare of handicapped people.
☆ ☆ ☆
The knitted garments for winter, 1959,
are quite exciting. Plaids for pullovers
and cardigans are popular, and the
Scotch motif is continued in the short
kilts (just above the knee) / worn with
Bermuda sox, which are knee-high, or
(smartest of all) black stockings. Just
plain, old-fashoned black stockings!
Mohair skirts in flashing colors are good
if you are slim, and the three-quarter
knitted-jacket if you are smart. It’s like
a long, long cardigan which comes half-
way down to your knees, and could look
very dowdy, however warm, if you don’t
have the right accessories and attitude.
For TV there are velveteen pants in
lovely jewel-colors. They have gone past
being tapered. They are tight, and show
the ankle always. With a glistening
Lurex knitted jumper and strands of
bold-looking beads, they should turn
heads from the TV to the wearer.
☆ ☆ ☆
For the first time in the history of
New Zealand a nun has been appointed
as part-time lecturer in the Classics
Department of the University of Otago.
She is Sister Mary Elizabeth, of the
Dominican Order in Dunedin, who
graduated M.A. with first-class honors
in Latin in 1958.


merely the nominal but the real head
of the family, the beloved and
obeyed.
The book, then, is what? A history
of the Wyndhams? A biography of
Arthur Mackenzie? A biography of
Albert Wright? A biography of May
Wright? A family chronicle? A
tribute to the pioneers? A prose-epic
of land-settlement in Australia? Or,
finally, as the title implies, an image
of the general human condition, the
generations persisting while individuals
rise and fall? One imagines that Judith
Wright, confronted with a mass of
family papers and a crowd of wonder-
ful stories to tell, was never herself
quite sure what sort of a book it was
going to be. If it were more firmly
any one of these things—preferably a
biography of May Wright—it would
probably, by implication, more firmly
be all of them. As it is now, far-
ranging and sometimes most vivid in
its recreation and scenes of places and
people, it is all these things; not as
effectively as it could be if it were
more clearly directed, but still full of
life and Australian interest in all its
categories.
Catholics and Politics
The much-discussed influence of
Roman Catholicism on contemporary
Australian politics is the obvious
reason for Australia: The Catholic
Chapter (Angus and Robertson), in
which James G. Murtagh traces the
political history of Roman Catholic-
ism in Australia from the earliest
times.
He shows Catholicism as practically
always on the side of the underdog.
Catholicism came to Australia, with
Irish political and religious trans-
poses, in chains. The Benedictines,
Dr. Ullathorne of Yorkshire and
Bishop Polding from Liverpool, cam-
paigned against transportation; Caro-
line Chisholm, a Catholic convert,
worked for immigrant women; Eureka
was mainly a Catholic show, and both
Governor Hotham and the British
Army officers welcomed Bishop
Goold’s presence at Ballarat for its
“beneficent and healing effect” upon
the rebels.
In the next big battlefield, over
education, the aristocratic Archbishop
Vaughan opposed Henry Parkes in
the matter of non-denominational
schools, and if this battle might not
be described as a battle for the under-
dog, then the advent of the next Arch-
bishop of Sydney, the “Radical
Cardinal” Moran, put the main force
of Roman Catholicism directly behind
unionism in Australia, the formation
of the Australian Labor Party, and
Federation. And it was an address by
Dr. Carr, Catholic Archbishop of Mel-
bourne, that in 1905 got King
O’Malley’s proposal for a Common-
wealth Bank approved by one vote.
Discussing Archbishop Mannix’s
attitude to conscription in World War
I, Father Murtagh concludes that, at
any rate, the proportion of Catholics
who fought abroad to the total
embarkation —19.2 per cent. —was
greater than the proportion of Catholics
to the population, 18.4 per cent.
The book becomes very interesting
in its account of the formation of the
Campion Society in Melbourne in
1931; from this, like enough, developed
the conscious antipathy which was to
split Right from Left in the Labor
party. The young Catholics of the
society, and their counterparts in other
States, rallied around the ideas of
Belloc’s “The Servile State,” which
prophesied the wearing-down of the
majority of the population to a state
of slavery in which they would be too
poor to own property. In 1936 the
“Catholic Worker,” edited by “a law
student named B. A. Santamaria,” with
the slogan “Property for the People,”
“grew almost overnight into a national
monthly of 50,000 copies”—and for
anyone who wants a Roman Catholic
account of what that led to, Father
Murtagh is explicit and concise.
For the future, it seems, Roman
Catholicism pins its political faith
upon the “new middle-class”:—
Political battles are still being
fought... .on the theory that society
is still neatly divided into two
classes: capitalists and workers.
There is little clear realisation that
a new middle-class has arisen which
was unforeseen in the Socialist tracts
of 50 years ago. This new middle-
class consists of the great army of
managers, technicians, scientific
experts, administrative workers,
skilled tradesmen, minor officials and
the lower professions The new
middle-class expressing itself through
.the “swinging vote” may well be
the safety - valve of Australian
democracy.
"The Rack"
The central theme of A. E. Ellis’s
novel The Rack (Heinemann) is a
double one: the struggle of a man’s
body against disease, and the struggle
of his sick mind to find a reason to
support his body. But it develops so
slowly that for the first hundred-odd
pages the book seems to be little more
than a documentary intended to shake
you out of the common belief that
t.b. is a painless and easily cured
disease, and to report faithfully what
the treatment of it was like ten years
ago in France.
The first shock comes not long after
the hero, a young Englishman, arrives
with a student group for treatment at a
private sanatorium in the Haute-
Savoie. A young woman pursued by
doctors races through his room and,
rather than face further treatment,
jumps to her death from a balcony.
Later the hero comes to understand
how she felt.
Direction suddenly appears when the
hero falls in love with another patient,
a young Belgian girl. But that, in the
end, is a disaster.
Perhaps because it contains a sense
of wonder at the capacity of the human
spirit for hopeless struggle, the final
note of despair is somehow trium-
phant. At any rate, it seems to
be the inevitable last touch to this
full and deep portrayal of one man’s
fate.
Architecture A. and M.
Two weighty additions to the Peli-
can History of Art (Penguin Books),
Art and Architecture in Italy, 1600
to 1750, and Architecture, Nineteenth
and Twentieth Centuries, come con-
veniently together.
Architecturally, they are poles
asunder. The Italian volume covers
the two generations which were
dominated by Bernini; the other
volume covers the period that was and
still is dominated by Frank Lloyd
Wright, Corbusier, Gropius and others.
Bernini was responsible for that extra-
ordinary outburst of ornamentation
known as the Baroque: Wright’s
architecture was a reaction in the
opposite direction.
Both Wright and Bernini are great
personalities, if not great artists.
Bernini was a painter, sculptor, archi-
tect and poet. His output was pro-
digious. His patrons were popes,
cardinals and kings. Wright’s are the
great princes of industry and com-
merce.
Bernini was charming, witty, convivial
and aristocratic and, like Wright, was
a bom organiser. His vast studio in
Rome was an artistic factory to which
masons, carvers, sculptors and painters
gravitated from all over Europe—in
fact, it was almost impossible to make
a lucrative profession of any of the
arts unless you were attached in some
way to the skirts of the Master.
Through the school he established
with its scores of pupils, Wright’s
influence became worldwide. One of
his disciples was Burley Griffin, who
designed Canberra and spread his type
of domestic architecture over Sydney
and Melbourne.
When Bernini died at 83 Italy was
loaded to the Plimsoll with his sculp-
ture and his buildings. One man could


not have executed the lot, but he was
certainly the inspiration for it, just as
Wright has been the inspiration for
most of this country’s modern build-
ings. If Bernini was the progenitor of
the aesthetically overripe, Wright was
the father of the artistically under-
nourished, as exemplified in that
enormous glasshouse, the new 1.C.1.
building in Melbourne.
Wright may be a genius of construc-
tion who can design a building which
will withstand an earthquake, but, on
the evidence of the Penguin volume,
he can’t design a pleasing-looking
building. Corbusier has done more
to destroy the beauty of Paris with
his arid-looking buildings than the
Germans did with Big Bertha during
World War I.
The modern idea that a house is a
machine for living'would have horri-
fied an architect of the Middle Ages.
It is difficult to imagine Lorenzo the
Magnificent bothering about how many
steps his cooks had to take between
the sink and the pantry or worrying
much about lavatories and vacuum-
cleaners. What Lorenzo wanted was
magnificence, and his architects knew
how to provide it. The householder of
the Middle Ages didn’t get much sani-
tation, but he got beauty; the modern
householder certainly gets sanitation,
but he doesn’t often get much beauty.
It would be interesting to speculate
on what is most likely to keep us
healthy—beauty or sanitation?
M.G.S.
Reviewed Briefly
Flight Into Danger: Arthur Hailey
and John Castle (Dymock’s). Serial-
ised in Sydney, this is the one about
the plane chartered in Winnipeg to fly
football-fans to Vancouver, on which
both pilots and many of the passengers
collapsed • after eating bad fish. The
only passenger with any knowledge of
flying was an ex-Spitfire pilot, and how
he was talked-down by one of the
Line’s captains from Vancouver makes
the reader hang on to his armchair
when she bumps, and leaves him with a
profound awe for anyone who can cope
with the gaggle of gears, levers, buttons
and indicators by which modern air-
liners are flown.
* * * *
The Soft-Footed Moor: Kenneth
Royce (Barker). Arriving in Tangier
with his brother’s fiancee, the tall hero
is not met by his brother as arranged,
but encounters so much silence that in
the end he is left doubting whether his
brother has ever been in Tangier. Then
he notices that a barman he’s been
questioning disappears, and that the
occupant of his brother’s alleged flat
is not quite the clean potato, while
the police don’t seem extremely help-
ful .. . The author works hard at his
mystery, if not very successfully; but
at least he keeps faith with the reader
in that the man one begins to suspect
a third of the way through, and the
woman about halfway through, are
both shown in the end to have con-
spired against the brother’s welfare.
* * * *
Along the Road to Frome: Chris-
topher Hollis (Harrap). An autobio-
graphical essay attempting to explain
why the author became, and remains,
a Roman Catholic. Except for the
conversion, the story is in general the
familiar one of posh prep.-school,
Eton, Oxford, teaching, travel, war-
time Intelligence work, politics and
journalism, enlivened by some neat
character sketches and anecdotes. The
arguments of faith are the equally
familiar ones of Chesterton and Belloc
—expressed, however, with a flatness
which comes strangely from the man
who used to report Parliament so
colorfully for Muggeridge’s “Punch”
and wrote so stimulating a study of
George Orwell.
FOUR POEMS FROM THE MAORI
DOUBLE-BANKING
(By Matahira)
Inside me, kicking,
There’s a little thing that puzzles me,
Spreading out like Wharewera Hill,
Out to see where he is,
The man who did this.
A MOURNING-SONG
(By Te Heu Heu Herea for Rangiaho,
his wife )
Many women call on me to sleep with
them
But I’ll have none so worthless and so
wanton —
There is not one like Rangiaho, so soft
to feel
Like a small, black eel.
I would hold her again
But like the totara or the slender flax-
stem
She slides from the first to the second
heaven.
The mother of my children
Gone
Blown by the wind
Like the spume of a wave
Into the eye of the void.
A SONG OF REGRET
(By Rangiaho, wife of Te Heu Heu
Herea)
My thoughts
are the dead leaves
of the kahakaha trees:
light as breath
they lie
on the earth.
Thoughts of you
float like leaves
like shadows of death
they drift
toward Reinga
as day drifts to night.
I have cast
my challenge to the wind:
it is not the fight
but the wait:
the spear
grows cold in my hand.
A CHARM FOR THE BEAUTY
OF WOMEN
(A karakia chanted to give strength to the
girl under the tattooing chisels of the
tohunga—first printed in “N.Z. Poetry
Yearbook.”)
Lie down, my daughter
Pain will set its touch
Upon thy lips. Speak not
Lest they betray thee.
Lie there, my daughter
Then none shall say
Who is this woman
With the bare lips?
Lie quiet, my daughter,
Your day will come :
Who is this woman
With the red chin?
Lie still, my daughter,
Let him shape your lips
And go without shame
To the houses of young men.
Lie sweet, my daughter,
The tide is in the river —
Men go fishing, but women
Wait for the ebb.
Lie soft my daughter,
Who will it be?
Many will ask
But one will answer.
Lie brave, my daughter,
It is a small taste
Of fate and it
Is almost done.
Arise, my daughter,
Lie where you like —
Lie brave, lie soft, lie sweet,
But not alone.
New Zealand.
BARRY MITCALFE.


Extract from “Dai'y Telegraph”, 2nd December
. jH -eif hot cor
Record *****
.. _ Melbourne Grand
t he we climax,
of bis Cooper
The motor
not line for &
know the ca'use ol the
loss .unUl they pr t his
engine in Sydney
week. leak in
They s«jpet*f gasket .
the cyhndei ‘ ing fTO m
Cooper’s exhaust when
level was down to
e n-
re-
evei
t, e S PS M IC -
gine g ene > at mmute turned
volutions a bright blue-
“ iSe'SSit at «« «■““
an hour. to r ac e '*?
The c , a ‘ ' next y ear *
Auckland- ear y
»
\
\
tjj ENEBGOI kept me in the race
says Stirling Moss
Stirling Moss's amazing win in the 32-lap
Melbourne Grand Prix on 30th November made
newspaper headlines all over Australia.
In Moss's own words, this is what happened.
‘After less than 6 laps, the water temperature
gauge showed me there was practically no water
left in the radiator. Even so, the engine went
all right until about 15 miles from the finish
when the oil temperature went right off the gauge.
I slowed up hoping it would last the distance.’
The vital part played by the engine oil in keeping
Stirling Moss’s Cooper FI running for over
80 miles of this 100 mile race at an average
speed of over 100 m.p.h. illustrates the excep-
tional properties of BP Energol Motor Oil.
Whatever make of car or truck you drive, you
can depend on BP Energol for efficient lubric-
ation and protection for all moving parts.
BP ENERGOL
available where you see
these pumps
mmm
imw
mtm
BP
SUPER
SUPER
Approved by Rolls-Royce
BP ENERGOL
VISCO-STATIC
multi-grade oil
BP ENERGOL
in regular
SAE grades
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd
C 731
