

The Bulletin
Poetry and Religion— page 2
Wednesday, June 17,1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
liegisterort in Australia lor transmission by post as a newspaper.
"I was just remarking, Mrs, G isset, that you're always first in the street with anything new."


LEARN
STORY
WRITING
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY.
STOTT’S will provide you with interesting.
Practical Home-study Instruction of the
highest quality, under the guidance of
thoroughly Experienced Instructors.
Write at once for your copy of STOTT'S
Literary Brochure, sent without obligation.
Stotts Correspondence College.
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 149 C'astle-
reagh St., Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Ilris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
1 CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
.... AGE (S.B. 12.1 b)
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
McCAULEY ON MODERNITY
James McAuley’s The End of
Modernity (Angus and Robertson),
subtitled “Essays on Literature, Art
and Culture,” is so formidable in style
and learning, so complex, close-
wrought and carefully qualified in
argument, so indigestible a mixture of
the illuminating and the contentious
that it is hardly possible to give a com-
pletely fair summary of it in a review.
But one small point that might be made
at the start is that, if I have counted
correctly, only twice in the whole
course of it are Australian writers men-
tioned: once in McAuley’s thundering
denunciation of Bernard O’Dowd, a
rare departure from his usually more
cautious censure; —
His work is a cloaca maxima into
which has flowed all the ideological
drivel of the nineteenth century . . .
and once in his praise of the poet
Harold Stewart:—
His finely wrought, highly philo-
sophical and sensuously splendid
verse contains no wallabies, no semi-
collapsed metric, no suburbanised
renderings of the bush philosophy of
mateship. .. .1 admire all the more
his steadfast perseverance amidst
difficulties in his chosen art.
This reference to “no wallabies”
seems to me to be worth pausing at for
a moment. I agree, more or less, with
McAuley’s high estimate of Harold
Stewart’s poetry, except that it is
generally rather abstract and remote,
but I really must point out that the
absence of wallabies cannot be taken
to be a positive virtue in poetry. How-
ever, McAuley himself elsewhere
allows Australian poets to mention
Australia.
So that is enough for the moment
about our four-footed friends. It is
the absence of all the rest of our two-
footed friends, the poets, which chiefly
concerns me: for not only does the lack
of specific references to individuals
tend to make the book dry, generalised
and abstract, but it suggests that, in
his anxiety to establish a certain
theory of criticism, McAuley has been
shutting his eyes to the facts. The
“ruthless simplification” he admits to
goes much too far.
When he speaks, for instance, of
“the slackness and disorder of our
poetry,” whose poems has he in mind?
Shaw Neilson’s? Hugh McCrae’s?
Kenneth Slessor’s? Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald’s? Judith Wright’s? When he
says that Australian writers conform-
ing to “the modern frame of mind”
become “incapable of genuine poetry”
why does he refuse to “pursue the
demonstration into the work of indi-
viduals”? For fear of discovering that
these writers are not, in fact, incapable?
When, presumably coupling Aus-
tralian and English poets in one general
condemnation, he says “We have
tended today towards a standard non-
descript all-purpose ‘short poem’ in
which the residues of all the styles and
forms are mish-mashed together,” is
he not ignoring the fact that, though
there is some substance in his conten-
tion, most of the really significant
poetry in Australia in the last thirty
years has “tended” precisely in the
opposite direction? The short poem
has its own values, as well as its limi-
tations; but, “Five Visions of
Captain Cook,” “Heine in Paris,”
“Five Bells”; “Essay on Memory,”
“Heemskerck Shoals,” “Fifth Day,”
“Between Two Tides,” “The Wind at
Your Door”; “A Drum For Ben
Boyd,” “Leichhardt”; even the
exquisite linked lyrics of William
Hart-Smith’s “Christopher Columbus”
—these are not what you could call
“short poems.” “Poems of some
length” is the term; largeness of scope
and concept, if we cannot expect an
epic every day, has been the exciting
thing about them. And, if we take
one swift glance overseas, is “Murder
in the Cathedral” a short poem and a
mish-mash?
But if McAuley’s unwillingness to
look at what has really been done in
Australia is disappointing, a much
more important, and indeed an astound-
ing. -omission in his book is Robert
Browning, to whom there is only the
briefest of passing references. Brown-
ing. that huge and majestic man,
directly in the line of Shakspeare and
Chaucer in his concern with the human
spectacle and, though his specific
beliefs may be open to question,
clearly working within a Christian
framework, is the very poet one would
think should appeal most strongly to
McAuley; but—“ Poetry during the past
one-hundred-and-fifty years and more
has described an immense detour”;
and Browning, apparently, got lost
with all the rest. But it seems to me
that it is not poetry that has taken the
immense detour, but McAuley.
Why does he avoid Browning? I
think it can be only because McAuley
writes from a Catholic viewpoint—
one could not say “the” Catholic
viewpoint, for in fact he finds himself
in the oddest conflict with Jacques
Maritain over modern art —and shuts
his eyes to anything that might inter-,
fere with the theory he develops from
it. His theory is that poetry and
religion are inextricably intertwined;
and as Christianity has declined in the
modern world so, inevitably and simul-
taneously, both in form and content,
has poetry.
Nobody would dispute with McAuley
that the arts in their highest aspects
are essentially religious, or perhaps
“spiritual” is a better term; but his
attempt to confine them to his purely
Catholic viewpoint involves him in
the strangest paradoxes and contradic-
tions. He has to get over the awkward
fact, as he is well aware, that all sorts
of excellent writers Homer, for
instance; to say nothing of the Chinese
—produced their masterpieces long
before Christianity was heard of. If
he then maintains, as he is forced to,
that any of the great established
religions can make a valid framework
for poetry, he has to get over the awk-
ward fact that Euripides wrote very well
indeed in a state of doubt and agnosti-
cism. He has to equate modern
experiments in verse-form with the
decline of Christianity and so to
get over yet another awkward fact —
which he does by ignoring it—that
the principal innovator of modern
poetic technique was Gerard Manley
Hopkins, a Jesuit priest. He has some-
how to reconcile his distaste for much
of modern art with Maritain’s approval
of it. He has to presuppose some
quite mythical period when verse-
forms were “fixed” or “traditional,”
so that subsequently they could decay.
And when modern poetry refuses by
its “heart-piercing” beauty to fit into
his theory, he has either to ignore it
or to maintain that somehow, in spite
of the merits which reluctantly he
recognises, it is not quite the right
thing: it is “the Magian heresy”: poets
(Continued on page 58)


For a truly smart home . . . and
a lower building estimate... use
the world’s strongest
roofing material
m
' &
oRa
Ah,
Your new house can be the showplace of the street
and yet be the lowest-cost home in the street!
A Lysaght roof makes all the difference, lending itself
readily to the most advanced modern designs, yet giving
you worth-while savings compared with competitive
materials.
Completely fire-proof . . . absolutely unbreakable
because Lysaght Red Orb is made especially hard for
roofing purposes. So easy to care for that you can
virtually forget about maintenance problems.
Decide now to investigate the facts and figures on the
beautiful, practical, economical Lysaght roof!
• Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
• Prepainted
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
• Flat Galvanized
Steel Sheet.
v wg* iSfISS'W
1110111111 M
Galvanized
STEEL
w, m Wm':§m fii .
m y gg E T
ip n E E II
Free —low cost
home plans booklet!
Send today for this helpful new series
of practical, low-cost home plans,
especially designed to suit Australian
conditions.
G 165 CC
Nome design*
.-'■jams**'
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., K
Port Line Buildjng, 50 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your new set of low cost home
plans.
NAME ZL
ADDRESS


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 17, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4140
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
CAPTIVES OF THE REDS
THE N.S.W. State Government finds
itself in a difficult position over
the penal sections of its Arbitration
Act which provide that a union which
carries on an illegal strike —that is, a
strike by a union which is subject to,
and under the discipline of, the
Industrial Commission may be
fined up to £5OO and deregistered and
its union-leaders sent to jail for six
months.
During the years when many of the
Communist unions acquired their
control directed from Moscow, the
strike was their primary weapon. They
had beaten the employers again and
again by the use of strike tactics. They
had learned from Engels that strikes
were the workers’ training-ground for
civil war, and they had heard Comrade
Ernest Thornton proclaim that strikes
were his business, and that the workers
should glory in them.
This policy was implemented in
particular by several noisy trade-union
“advisers” to the Prime Minister, who,
to the eternal disgrace of a Labor
Government, in which E. J. Ward was
the spearhead and instrument of the
Red unions, with J. S. Garden at his
elbow as an intermediary, brought
chaos in many industries and slowed-
up war production in some industries
to the point almost of stoppage.
The background aims were clear
enough: to use war conditions to pro-
duce complete chaos during which the
Government could be seized through
pressure by the Communist union-
leaders using the Labor Ministry as
its vanguard.
Time and again the country was
bailed-up by these ruffians, particu-
larly in coal and shipping. It was only
after the war that the disastrous coal
strike of 1949, revolutionary in its
intent, and the exposure of the methods
by which Communists were elected
regularly to the headships of unions
like the Federated Clerks and the
Federated Ironworkers, brought about
the institution of controlled ballots in
Federal unions which had not become
rotten with Communism like the Water-
side Workers and the Seamen.
Unionists in general felt a sickened
revulsion against violence and
socialisation, the twin aims of the
Communist party.
TN the past few years the Communist
A leaders have had a bad time.
Only two or three of the more extreme
unions have more than a token control
over their members or have been able
to muster-up more than token strikes.
Almost every month there have been
threats of stoppages and disruption,
and plans for Australia-wide general
strikes, but nothing has come of them,
even when fathered by the A.C.T.U.
In the coal industry, which provided
the prototype for disorder and sabo-
tage of the national effort during
World , War 11, even Mr. Parkinson,
the general president, has found it
impossible to bring back the glorious
times of the Canberra Code, when the
Miners’ Federation had only to whistle
and the Federal Labor Government
approached, dragging its abdomen in
the dust.
The Miners’ Federation has become
a divided body which most of its
lodges ignore. The appeals of its heads
for nationalisation and for general
strikes to enforce demands for higher
wages have come to naught. It has
done its best to oppose bonus-
payments for regular work, incentive-
payments for increased production. It
has opposed mechanisation tooth-
and-nail. It has been the bitter enemy
of the Joint Coal Board because it has
removed grievances on which the
conscienceless Leftist agitators bat-
tened. The federation leaders have,
of course, always campaigned for the
removal of these grievances and the
improvement of workers’ conditions,
but only under nationalisation con-
trolled by the federation.
TAESPITE all the Communists and
their supporters have been able to
do, however, they have not been able
to keep up a satisfactory quota of
strikes. The workers in the coalfields
are getting less and less drill in the
Engels type of strikes, strongly advo-
cated by Comrade Sharkey and others,
as training for insurrection.
Even to promote any strikes worth
while during the past year or, so the
Communist leaders have had to desert
the battlefield between the employer
and employee and carry on their cam-
paigns of attrition against the “capi-
talists” and “imperialists” by staging
internal quarrels in their unions or
between union and union.
In coal last year only about 0.3 per
cent, of the loss of coal through stop-
pages in N.S.W. was due to disputes
about wages and claims; the rest were
mainly concerned with internal trade-
unionism disputes.
The Communists in their proceed-
ings have been considerably hampered
by the attitude towards strikes of both
the Federal and State Governments
and tribunals. It is logical and prac-
tical that if proper tribunals are pro-
vided which can settle nearly all dis-
putes as between employer and
employee, there should be no right
to strike. And this is the position at
present.
Neither rank-and-file nor moderate
leaders have any desire for a return
of the unrestricted right to strike. They
have no interest in the strike devised
to weaken defence or advance the
cause of socialisation by whittling
away the basis of the Western
economies through sabotage. They
merely want to get on with their work.
'THE fact that the Cahill Govern-
A ment in N.S.W. has decided to align
itself with the revolutionaries by
making it legal for unions to go on
strike if they have not bludgeoned the
opposition into submission in 14 days
shows exactly where that Government
stands in relation to the Communist
and extreme-Leftist fellow-traveller
leaders.
It proposes to remove the six months’
jail penalty to which these Moscow-
actuated saboteurs of the Red unions
are now subject for promoting or
abetting a strike. In fact, it will give
the Red-light to the heirs of Jock
Garden to bring back the conditions
of the late 19205. when no industry
was safe from blackmail, disruption
and violence.
It has been done in a panic-stricken
scuttle on the edge of the State A.L.P.
conference.
There can be no room for surprise
in it. Mr. Cahill is as desperate as
any Communist-union leader. He is
ready to swing anywhere for succor.
He pandered to the Catholic vote to
win the State elections. He is pander-
ing hard to the Communists, who in
unions like the W.W.F. actually decide
who shall be the union-representative
at the A.L.P. conference and what he
shall advocate and who he shall
support for office there.
The control over Ministers has
become so impudent that the Miners’
Federation has actually demanded from
its former official, Mr; Simpson, now
Minister for Mines, an “explanation” .
of why he did not sign the requisition
to caucus to destroy the penal clauses
of the Act.
Any decent Government would have
the makers of this demand at the Bar
of the House for contempt of Parlia-
ment.


AFRAID HE MIGHT RECOVER.
“Better give him another hit on the head, Joe; looks like he’s trying to get on his feet again.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Summit or Nothing
The Foreign Ministers’ Conference in
Geneva seems now doomed to failure,
and the proposed summit conference
seems likely to go overboard with it.
The U.S. delegate, Mr. Herter, told
the Russians, if all reports may be
believed, that the United States would
not go to a summit conference so long
as Berlin’s safety was threatened. This
statement followed a suggestion by
Khrushchev that agreement might be
reached at a summit conference even if
the Foreign Ministers could agree on
nothing.
There certainly seems to be no chance
of an agreement at Geneva. All roads
there lead back to Khrushchev’s original
proposal put forward last November on
the assumption that Russia has the sole
right to say how East Germany and
Berlin inside its borders shall be disposed
of. The only difference between the old
and the new Russian plans seems to be
that the original ultimatum has been
extended for a year.
This might be either a good sign" or
a bad one. It might mean that the bluff
has been called and that the Kremlin
is playing for Time to think up a way
out; or it might mean that it wants a
year to consolidate aggressive plans before
applying force to the situation.
Either way is not reassuring, especially
in view of the growing restiveness, par-
ticularly in France, with the dictatorial
attitude of the United States, and its one-
sidedness, as complete as that of Russia
on some other issues, in regard to the
sharing of atomic secrets.
The insistence of Washington that it
shall be able to use bases in European
countries to station troops atomically
armed in them while controlling nuclear
warheads and sharing in the secrets of
the country involved, is difficult to
swallow. It amounts to nuclear occupa-
tion.
The assumption that the United States
is the fount of all inventive genius is
nonsense in face of the facts, because
all the basic scientific discoveries which
led to nuclear advances came out of
Europe including those which have
made Russia what it is as a nuclear Power.
It is understandable that a proud people
like the French in the period of their
awakening should feel resentment at the
United States attitude and repudiate it;
but it is very unfortunate that the matter
should be argued and decided at a junc-
ture when it is most necessary to show a
united Nato defence-front to the U.S.S.R.
It seemed certain at the end of the
week that the Geneva conference would
fail, since the private talk arranged be-
tween Herter and Gromyko was unlikely
to be anything more effective than a
roaring and pawing by combatant bulls.
The one practical suggestion that
remains unassailed is Mr. Macmillan’s
original plan for a summit conference,
though everybody seems to be doing his
best at this stage to forget the author.
Khrushchev has now made the plan
his own, but that is all to the good.
If he is willing to have a summit con-
ference, then it should be held, because
it almost certainly must bring finality.
There is nobody beyond Khrushchev to
whom the buck can be passed in Russia.
And the West cannot refuse a conference
without putting itself in a very unfor-
tunate propaganda position, no matter
how specious and false Khrushchev’s
apparently frank and open attitude of
readiness to talk at definitive level may be.
If, on the other hand, a summit con-
ference is held and the Western case is
firmly and skilfully presented to the
public, the Soviet bloc will be hard put
to it to refuse to accept reasonable pro-
posals. Mr. Menzies’s advocacy of a
summit meeting during the week was well
timed.
If nothing comes of a summit con-
ference, the world will know where it
stands and be warned to prepare for
the worst. The stage has been reached
when the Communist advance, momen-
tarily halted in Europe, is trying to find
ways to get moving again. It must be
stopped in its tracks.
N Return of the Reds
[From Canberra]
With beaming smiles, an obvious will-
ingness to pose for photographers and
a let’s-be-friends attitude, three Russian
diplomats stepped from a Viscount onto
the tarmac at Canberra’s airport to take-
up where former Ambassador Generalov
and his team left-off in 1954.
Ivan Skripov, who will be Charge
d’Affaires pending the appointment of
an Ambassador, breezily answered ques-
tions, smiled and said he “wants to meet
the people and learn of their way of
life.”
Accompanying him were two first-
secretaries, with their wives and children.
After a brief press-conference, the
Russian party tumbled into waiting taxis
and were whisked off to the Hotel
Kingston, where they will stay until per-
manent accommodation is found for
them. After settling-in they went to
inspect the disused Embassy building,
directly opposite their present lodgings.
They wandered through the neglected
garden, overgrown with weeds and pas-
palurn, entered the building and inspected
the musty two-story structure for over
an hour. They obviously were not
impressed with the building, and it is
odds-on the Russians will soon start
building a new Embassy to keep pace
with those of the Western bourgeoisie.
Two little items were gleaned from
Mr. Skripov. Firstly, he expected that
an Ambassador would be appointed to
Canberra before the end of this year.
Secondly, it was highly probable Russia
would resume bidding at Australian wool
auctions and ‘he hoped that a trade
attache would be included in the Embassy
staff.
Melbourne Sabbath
[From “Collins Street”]
The municipality at Camberwell, a
deeply respectable Melbourne suburb
now reputed to be more of a blue-ribbon
Liberal seat than the rich but raddled
Toorak, conducted a referendum on
whether “non-profit” sport should be
conducted on council-owned grounds on
Sundays. The councillors had, most
reprehensively, denied the use of the
municipal sporting-areas to young people.
Of the 25,940 residents who voted,
18,670 favored the opening of the grounds
and 6560 were against it. Incidentally,
this showed how far out of touch with
opinion in the municipality the current
councillors have been, and how unfair
the locked gates have been, but the
remarkable fact is that, in this somewhat
enlightened year, 6560 persons, one in
four of the poll, could be found who
would shut the sporting-grounds to young
sportsmen and sportswomen.
The explanation is partly the fright-
campaign run by the Sunday Christian
Observance Council, which is still in
existence in Victoria but due for a happy
release from its vale of tears within a
few very short years. It categorically
announces that God is on its side in all
issues.
This prize piece of presumption in this
campaign was taken with a sporting smile
by those vicars and their parishioners
who were on the other side, soldiering-
on with Old Nick apparently, not to
mention the Forces of Evil.
Yet there must have been hundreds
who voted “No” in the referendum but
who had not been reached by the
Sabbatarians. Some of these may have
been members of the Australian Board
of Control whose Australian consciences
in 1957 would not permit the touring
team to play cricket in South Africa on
Sundays, when it is most enjoyed.
Australia's Handicap
Having earned the praise of Eddie Ward
for his drift towards Communist-union
policies through plumping for a still-
. shorter working-week, legalising of poli-
tical levies (even when they are made
on Liberals and Labor men to be paid
to the Communist party), along with
equal pay for women and the abolition
of strike-penalties in such a way as to
give saboteurs and subversives of the
Moscow breed a free run, Mr. Cahill is
now becoming uneasy about his cut of
Federal tax-reimbursements.
Well may he be in such circumstances,
if the other States have anything to do
with it. Mr. Cahill, having placed handi-
cap after handicap on his own back
under Communist duress, no other State
Government would be human if it did
not rush to add the last straw.
Victoria and South Australia are romp-
ing ahead of N.S.W. in industry and
population-increases, and Queensland is
now joining in the forward-looking race,
with an enlightened ambition to build
on unexploited assets on a giant scale.
All the Cahill Government seems
ambitious to do is to keep its head above


water at any cost, though how it expects
that its present policy will achieve the
miracle is a mystery. It has allowed its
transport unions to take charge of the
administration of its largest and most
financially embarrassed enterprises.
Mr. Cahill has real reason to fear what
may be the reactions of the Premiers’
Conference to his antics. If his plans
are carried out the cost of them—of his
shorter-hours policy, his land-tax handi-
cap on enterprise, his toleration of loaf,
and his pandering to the Communists in
industrial policy—must be paid for by
the whole of the Commonwealth.
It is scarcely expected that the States
and the Commonwealth, with so much
real work to do and so little in the
way of resources to do it with, are likely
to continue to pay a bonus to a State
which is deliberately running lame for the
benefit of the stableboys.
The proposal that the up-and-coming
States which are paying most dividends
in real progress to the Commonwealth
as a whole should have first consideration
from the Commonwealth Treasury seems
reasonable. And Mr. Cahill has become
seized of a natural apprehension that
this is just what some States are going to
ask the Commonwealth to do, leaving
him scarcely a feather to fly with.
At present the Mother State is rapidly
earning the reputation of being The
State Which Overseas Investors Are Most
Anxious To Avoid, and any pressure
which can teach Mr. Cahill in his present
conceited state of mind that he is subject
to economic laws like the rest of the
world, and not merely to Eddie Ward
and his pals, will be doing a service to
the country as a whole.
No doubt the other members of the
Premiers’ Conference will do their best
to knock some sense into the head of the
runaway.
Airways and Spaceways
[From “Mugga Way”J
Some of our traditional overseas air-
routes are likely to disappear as a result
of political uncertainties abroad and the
development of new planes with vast
range. Objections by India and Ceylon
to the passage of planes bringing weapons
to Woomera for testing, the building of
a Russian base near Aden, doubts about
the Middle East, the outlook in Singa-
pore and Djakarta are all factors affecting
the decisions and planning of civil- and
military-aviation people. The R.A.F.
staging - base on the Maldives, in the
Indian Ocean, looked good, but trouble-
makers have already begun to stir-up
some difficulties.
The route across the Pacific seems
likely to continue unaffected in peace-
time (except for the tussle between the
rival airlines which may or may not offer
cheaper fares and freights), and the
development of a route to the Philippines
and northward via Australian New
Guinea is welcome.
The newest plan, of course, is to pro-
vide a route to Europe via the Antarctic
and South America. Here again, in spite
of some advantages, the political un-
certainties in South America may prove
a stumbling-block. There seems little hope
that an earlier plan of a direct flight
to Britain by the shortest route, which
would include flying over portion of
Soviet territory, will be realised, even
when non-stop trips between Sydney and
London become practicable.
Military aviation has problems distinct
from those worrying the civil airways.
These include not merely the types of
planes to be bought by or made in Aus-
tralia to cope with surmised situations
in the next five years or so, but also the
supply-routes from Britain and North
America for the space-missile and satel-
lite programme which will have such
admirable and comparatively remote
bases in the Australian continent and in
Australian Antarctic. For some time at
least, the conquest of space will be a
combined defence-scientific business, with
civil flights still in the realm of comic-
strips. Satellites, in fact, may soon be able
to take-over all or many of the defence
tasks now assigned to “conventional”
forces, even if only by the avenue of
“mutual terror.” Australia is well into this
business, and properly so, even if it does
bring , us, as suggested, into the front
firing-line in any world conflict. It is
part of the price of freedom, because
tyranny today could control weapons
which could enslave mankind for ever.
The Red Congress
Dr. Barton Babbage, the highly articu-
late Dean of Melbourne and former
Dean of Sydney, whose loquacity has
not infrequently bogged him in con-
troversial issues, has got his foot out
of the Australian and New Zealand
Congress for International Co-operation
and Disarmament and —er—Arts Festival.
He had been one of the sponsors of
this Communist show. In the middle of
last month, recommending citizens to
inquire into the motives of the congress
before they were induced to join it, the
Minister for External Affairs said, with-
out equivocation, it had been dreamed-up
simply to advance the policies of world-
Communism by seeking to exploit (at the
height of the Melbourne season in
November) the natural desire of all
sensible and responsible people for peace
by enlisting persons of goodwill in
cultural, educational, religious and in-
dustrial circles.
The Dean’s resignation, when it came
more than a fortnight later, was emphatic.
“I am not prepared to allow myself to
be an unwitting and unwilling agent of
Communist propaganda,” he wrote to the
Rev. A. M. Dickie, chairman of the
congress’s sponsoring committee; and
since Mr Dickie has since admitted it was
quite possible Communists are on the
organising committee, this cardinal point
of the Dean’s makes any other comment
by Mr. Dickie beside the point.
Mr. Casey might have added that there
is no organisation in Melbourne or else-
where in Australia advocating war and
non-co-operation, so that there can, in
fact, be only one construction on the
reason for the whipping-up of unsuspect-
ing clergymen, artists, writers, teachers
and other classes educated in their pro-
fessions if not yet politically.
Another Fish Story
One of the best services rendered to the
Victorian public by one or another of
the Melbourne dailies has been the occa-
sional exposure of price-fixing in the fish-
industry. As the result of angry articles
by a newspaper there have been Govern-
ment inquiries of some kind about once
a decade for the last 40 years.
None of these has ever succeeded in
getting fresh, cheap fish for Victorians,
but the Cabinet, responding to a series
of well-documented articles, this time in
“The Sun,” has decided on another
inquiry, and it will be conducted by the
State Development Committee.
The fishing-industry had hoped for a
royal commission, but since the Govern
ment has recently appointed a royal com-
mission into motorists’ insurance, Cabinet
apparently felt one at a time was enough.
The State Development Committee has
many of the powers of a royal commis-
sion and can summon witnesses, prose-
cute for non-attendance, commit to jail
for non-compliance with its demands and
demand evidence on oath.
In a State where shark (under the
euphemism of “flake”) is displayed at
7s. a lb., compared with imported
whiting at ss. a lb., and local fishermen
cannot make more than a subsistence,
citizens are entitled to know where the
money goes, and why fish is never cheap.
Yet the price of fish is not one of the
subjects specifically referred to the com-
mittee.
The terms of reference for the new
inquiry ask for recommendations designed
to increase the supply of fresh fish from
Victorian sources, popularise the com-
mon varieties of fish, especially salmon,
barracouta and perch, and to develop a
fish-canning industry.
Commissions and committees in earlier
years (back to 1919, in fact) recom-
mended cold-storage facilities at each of
the principal points of catch ; refrigerated
rail and road transport for the carriage
of fish in bulk ; the cleaning of fish at
the point of catch ; that detailed records
of sales at each point in Melbourne
should be kept; that the City Council,
and not agents, should be responsible
for the distribution of fish ; and that
there should be a permanent Fish
Advisory Committee representing all
branches of the industry, with a Govern-
ment-appointed chairman.
Very few of these recommendations
have been attempted, explaining why
fishermen are leaving the industry and
why, of £2-million-worth of fish imported
into Australia in 1957-58, £740,000-worth
was bought in Victoria.


IN THE PARK
“Dr. Billy Graham was shocked by people
‘lying all over the place’ in London parks
which ‘looked as though they had been turned
into bedrooms. .. .The new generation is tar
better acquainted with Jayne Mansfield’s
statistics than with the second Commandment.’
Miss Jayne Mansfield’s vital stat-
istics are the reason that
Figures that may please the eye
In the park are seen to lie,
Every one a unit less
In Dr. Bill’s attendances.
“Love thy neighbor,” Sir and Miss,
Doesn’t mean to hug and kiss;
Learn “Thou shalt,” but don’t forget
“Thou shalt not” —and therefore let
Boys be boys and gels be gels,
But let them be it somewhere else.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
FOR GAVIN CASEY
A unique tribute to Gavin Casey, who
for months now has been a patient
in Hollywood (W.A.) Repatriation Hos-
pital, has been arranged for the evening
of July 17 in the Press Club rooms of
His Majesty’s, Perth.
The idea of offering voluntarily some
of their work towards an art-show to
raise funds for Gavin originated amongst
a group of 20 or so eastern States artists,
whose canvases have now arrived in
Perth, and Westralian artists have happily
joined forces with them on the same
terms.
When Frank Norton, director of the
Perth Art Gallery, opens the exhibition,
representative work of Hal Missingham,
Such, Endean, Jolliffe, McLintock, Rigby,
Elizabeth Durack, Bob Juniper, John
Lunghi, Norman Aisbett and many others
will be on show. During the opening night
all pictures will be disposed of by auction
amongst the friends who will gather to
wish Gavin well.
Henrietta Drake-Brockman will say a
few words during the evening, and a
tape, recorded from his hospital-bed, will
play back a few husky words of, no
doubt, amusing response by Gavin, whose
large leather armchair (labelled “Father
Casey”), which has been left vacant in
the Press Bar since his illness, will have
pride of place on the dais.
Although invitations will go out, it is
possible that people who know Gavin,
particularly around Perth, will be missed,
and all who have affection for him would
be welcomed.
For those, anywhere, who are unable
to attend and bid for pictures and who
may care to add something towards the
success of the evening, contributions may
be sent to Ted Mayman, c/o Bank of
New South Wales, Perth.
*■
“Zorok”: Brawl outside a pub in
Oxford Street, Sydney, the other after-
noon as 1 passed by. Aussies and Ities
mixed up in it, as well as the police, who
carted off in a Black Maria several of the
brawlers, irrespective -of race. Nothing
unusual in all this perhaps ; except that
the pub inside which it all no doubt
started displays a prominent sign:
“Where the Nicest People in the World
Meet.”
❖ +J+ *
“Nunk”: They say it was surprising
how many women ringing for seats at
Sydney Elizabethan’s “The Bastard
Country” couldn’t seem to remember the
title. “. . . in . . . in your current pro-
duction” was as far as they could permit
themselves to go.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Zake”: The woman customer, herself
a New Australian, seemingly Dutch,
asked the Yugoslav who owned the fish-
shop what were the prices of the bags
of chips. Yugo answered: “Two for a
bob got, one for a bob got, bob got.”
The first two were easy ; the final one
had her stonkered. They were still trying
to work it out over three languages when
I left.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Glen Park”: News that Boston Island
in Pt. Lincoln’s lovely harbor (S.A.) is
to become a nudist colony has been
received in the district with mixed feel-
ings. The local paper has published inter-
views with the mayor, the promoter of
the scheme, and various businessmen.
The dry-cleaning industry claims it will
be dealt a severe blow, but a pilot who
conducts an air-taxi service is expecting
heavy bookings when the colony gets
going.
❖ <* *>
“Wat Todds”: It doesn’t surprise me
to learn that “P.0.M.C.” (B. 27/5/’59)
has discovered a non-gambler among the
gentlemen of the bag ; I found one who
was positively devout. A few Saturdays
ago, having carefully studied the pinhole
in my racecard, I addressed a breezy
bagman who informed me that he con-
sidered Skeleton’s chances to be 150 to 1
against. After accepting my two lettuce-
leaves caressingly, and placing them
within the confines of his leather strong-
hold, he said in a voice deep, resonant
and rich in the timbre of gratitude: “God
bless you, sir.”
"In view of the circumstances , I think We could have skipped
THIS crazy ceremony."


In Sydneys on June 7, Lieut.-General
Sir Eric Woodward, Governor of
N.S.W., presented new Colors to the
17th/18th Battalion, the North Shore
Regiment. This is the first time an Aus-
tralian regiment has received four Colors
—one set was given to the 17th Bn.
(originally the St. Leonards Rifles, formed
in 1860) and another to the 18th.
Under constant falls of rain, a com-
plicated and lengthy military ceremony
was performed by this C.M.F. infantry-
battalion with the precision of the
Brigade of Guards. The wheeling of the
line in slowtime, marching on sodden
grass, rivalled anything I’ve seen in the
gravelled Horse Guards’ Parade in White-
hall. To Old Diggers of the 17th and
18th, from Gallipoli, Flanders, the Middle
East, Malaya, New Guinea and Borneo,
it must have been a source of immense
pride. It was to me —privileged by regi-
mental alliance to know this devoted
battalion intimately, both in field-train-
ing and in its ordinary existence in
Sydney. But to none of us could the
success of the parade be said to come
as a surprise.
To those who guide the destiny of
our Army, Regular or Citizen, the occa-
sion should be a pointer. This battalion
will never lack for recruits, nor need there
be any doubt about its fighting-efficiency.
ROLLO GILLESPIE.
“Little Boz”: As a schoolgirl, I knew
most of lan Mudie’s rhymes of 40 years
ago, but it wasn’t until about three years
back, at an adult party, that I first heard
about the three dear old souls who were
locked in the lavatory. The reason Mr.
Mudie failed to understand the “cross-
patch” jingle was probably that his
version was wrong. It should go:
Crosspatch draw the latch,
Sit by the fire and spin;
Take a cup and drink it up
- Then let your neighbors in.
Most of the old counting rhymes are in
use today, but the secret language, “pig-
Latin,” we used to call it, is unknown
to my teenagers and becomes a handy
language for Dad and me if we wish
to make a casual remark over the heads
of the youngsters. They just don’t dig it,
Daddy.
“Yumay”: Two schoolboy rhymes
much scrawled in autograph-books of
yore (mine among them) were:
Mary had a little lamb,
Its fleece as black as soot;
Into Mary’s bread and jam
Its sooty foot it put.
and:
I wish I were a little worm
With hairs upon my tummy.
I'd wriggle in a honey-pot
To make my tummy gummy.
*Zf ♦>
“Sir Jay”: Every now and then I have
a cheque bounce because I omitted my
signature. Probably a psychologist would
find as a reason my dislike of parting
with hard-earned cash—but what would
he say about Mrs. Ann Rudd, of Tich-
field (Eng.), who, instead of making her
cheque out for “Two pounds six shillings,”
wrote “Two pounds six children.”
“Orthos”: After Parsons demonstrated
the superiority of the turbine to the
reciprocating-engine, the Navy built a
couple of turbine destroyers, Viper and
Cobra. These were fast enough, but the
naval architects slipped somewhere in
their calculations ; both ships broke their
backs —hence the Navy’s distaste for
snake names (B. 20/5/’59).
♦>
“C.S.”: Dr. William Milliken, the
expert on museum and gallery layouts
and former director of the Cleveland
Art Museum, who’s in Melbourne to advise
on the new National Gallery and cul-
tural centre, has laid down some of the
more desirable features:
Steps should be avoided as much as
possible; the public should have imme-
diate access from ground-level; maximum
parking-space should be provided; the
number of entrances should be kept to
a minimum for maximum control; and
exhibits should not be static or boxed-in,
since this prevents a variety of displays.
It also reads like the ground-floor blue-
print of the perfect pub.
♦> *;♦ *
“Meerum”: Necks craned to see what
was causing the assistant’s furrowed
brow in the Friday-crammed grocery-
store ; then the voice of the woman
at the head of the queue rose shrilly:
“No, no! They weren’t round biscuits,
or square ones, or oval! They were just
sort of shaped ! ”
*z+ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: When the train dumped
six large cardboard cartons at the far
end of the station the small, uniformed
woman had to load them on to a hand-
trolley, trundle them the length of the
platform, dump them, and then lug them,
two at a time, across the line to the
opposite platform. Having completed her
third crossing, and clambered finally off
the line, she had to stagger, trolleyless,
three more times under a double load
of cartons until they were all safely
stowed in the office. It seemed a bit odd
to me that none of the watching males,
uniformed and otherwise, made a move
to lend a hand. After all, it didn’t happen
in Omsk or Tomsk, but on a Melbourne
suburban station.
<£♦
“Miss M.”: Burl Ives, unlike Jimmy
Rodgers (B. 13/5/’59), did Australian
folksongs a good turn by making them
known to Australians. Apart from his
States-side accent, his treatment is usually
irreproachable, but at least one Aussie
adaptation of county-English seems to
have tricked him. In his version of “Click
Go the Shears” the “bare-bellied yowe”
becomes, unless my ears deceive me, a
“blue-bellied Joe.” I wonder what Mr.
Ives thought it meant?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Snobby”: The trouble a Canberra
geologist is having with a nude picture
by Norman Lindsay and the girls in the
hotel reminds me of a station-manager,
bachelor, in West Queensland, who had
an artistic collection of nudes, all suit-
ably framed, that he delighted to hang
in his room. His new housekeeper didn’t
approve of nude females, even if they
were only on paper, in the boss’s room ;
she took them down and put them in a
drawer of the dressing - table. The
manager took them out and hung them
again. The housekeeper did a repeat.
It was becoming monotonous; Mrs.


Grundy decided to use other tactics.
While the boss was in his office, bent over
his desk, she took the biggest picture,
to which she most objected, and smashed
it over his head. The manager was a
gentleman: he didn’t stoush a lady ; he
got in his car, the frame still round his
neck in the manner of a registered goat,
and he drove straight to town. The only
policeman in the township, a man of
exceeding-great tact, got a saw, liberated
the manager, and advised him to get other
pictures or another housekeeper. The
boss kept the pictures.
❖ ❖
“Pat”: Thought advertising absurdity
had achieved its apex when certain pic-
ture-theatres hung-out the slogan “Get
More Out Of Life. See An M.G.M.
Film Here Every Week!” Passing a
GLOBE TRAVEL AGENCY
theatre the other day, I noted that the
wording now inveigled me to “Get More
Out Of Life. See ‘The Naked And The
Dead,’ Now Showing.”
❖ ❖ *
“Quartercut”: Momentarily it seemed
that our old friend W. J. B. D. L. P.
8.-Peirse (B. 18/3/’59) had been out-
numbered, but a Melbourne resident,
embellished with two extra surname-
hyphens, had two less letters: Leo
Lauritz Petersen-de-la-Valliore.
♦♦♦ ♦i* <s♦
“Jude”: Re wedding in St. Judas’s
Church (B. 3/6/’59), the St. Judas who
is patron of the church is not Judas
Iscariot who betrayed Christ. He is St.
Judas Thaddeus, a martyr and Holy
Apostle. He is the cousin of Christ
Himself. “Thaddeus,” a title given him
by God, means “amiable, loving,” or
“stout-hearted.” He is patron of desperate
or hopeless cases, with special power to
give help quickly. Least known of the
famous Twelve, he is called the “Saint of
the Impossible.” He is believed to have
been shot to death with arrows on a cross.
A holy, humble man, he never mentioned
his blood-relationship to Christ. Thaddeus
is a common Christian name in Eire.
•S’
“North Esk”: A young lady in Tas-
mania missed her engagement-ring; it
turned-up a few days later in the country
—ensconced in the leg of a crayfish she
had been handling before it was
dispatched.
% £4
1
“Tabi t h a ” : At. exhaustion - point,
muttering weakly of the costliness of a
man’s hairbrush (B. 20/5/’59), and the
usual “What on earth can I give the
boys?” my niece took charge . . . “Just
the thing,” said she. “They’re just
beginning to use a hairbrush” (15 and
16 years!). She organised me through
the labyrinth of a city store to a large
stand of brushware, and soon had
parcfelled-up a couple of imported best-
quality English bristled brushes ; 9s. 6d.
each—beauties. My enthusiasm was
slightly dampened by discovery of a
departmental notice: “Saddlery, Horse
and Dog Requisites,” and a showcard
above my particular choice: “Suitable for
all small terriers”! But, as my breezy
niece assured me, being stuffy and con-
servative gets you nowhere. Quite right,
the brushes are a dog-goned success.
* * *i*
“Jeyles”: “Ceg” mustn’t blame
Perelman for world-building Pastrami
(B. 3/6/’59). It's a Latin-loved spiced
smoked-beef well known in the U.S., not
connected with either pastry or pasta, and
in fact pronounced “puh-s/ra/i-mee.”
*
“Hove-ite”: Pat’s transistor article (B.
25/2/’59) brings to mind a golfing
enthusiast so keen that he has planted
his backyard with lawn to practise
putting, chip-shots, etc. While the last
Tests were on (he is also a cricket-fan)
the transistor-set was strapped-on and
turned-on, full blast. To the tune of “It’s
gone for a four” . . . “Benaud sends this
one down, rather short,” etc., the golf-
stick swung up and down, and the little
white ball flew here and there: One mind,
with but two single thoughts.
♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: Like Parramatta, and for
about as long, Newcastle (N.S.W.) has
got along without a “Town Hall,” too.
Since around the 1930’5, Newcastle’s City
Hall has been the dominant building of
its town-planned Civic Centre.
*s^
“Narumee”: Can’t allow Cook’s native
heath to pass as “Witby” (B. 3/6 /’59).
After all, as my local guide-book, printed
a half-century ago, says: “We may well
thank the slipways of Whitby for our
sovereignty in Australia.” It also claims
that all ships for Cook’s voyages of
discovery were furnished by Whitby ship-
yards.
FROM ONE RING TO ANOTHER
“The type of big businessman and politician
who likes to show how democratic and matey
he really is used to make a point of regular
attendance at the races. These days you are
more likely to see him at fights or wrestling-
matches.” —Sporting commentator.
Tycoons, eager to seek relief
From constant pressure of a sheaf
Of cares concerned with deals and
mergers,
Once found the Turf the ideal place.
The thrills they got, not from a race,
But from nodding to well-known
urgers.
The jocks to them were Jim and Joe ;
Colorful books they loved to know ;
The humble stipe, the course-detective.
They gained thereby this feeling free:
That of the human family
They still were members, irrespective.
And M.P.s, when not climbing polls
Or making laws chockful of holes —
They also made it their headquarters.
As well as getting in for nix,
With all the tycoons they could mix,
Not, on the Flat, with their supporters.
The mokes and fielders now they’ve
ditched.
Their old allegiances they’ve switched
(Thus exercising rights as choosers);
And now you’ll see ’em every night
When there’s a wrestle or a fight,
Among the mat men and the bruisers.
The slap of glove upon a chin;
The grunts of mat men boring-in
Trying to make it all look dinkum —
For business-tsars, politicos,
The hoi polloi in bleachers —those
Are sounds that in one Demos link ’em.
As odd a gathering of bods
As you may meet, I’ll lay the odds !
The tycoons and the bleachers leaping
In rich excitement; the M.P.s,
Their occupational-disease
Takes over, and, right through, they’re
sleeping !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


STREET-SCENES
From "SISTER ELLELL"
'ySTHAT a remarkable amount of life
there is in any street of any village,
town or city in any country!
In Sicily I realised that I had been
wasting my life working! I should have
been sitting at the front gate, watching
the world go by. That is what most of
the Sicilian ladies seem to do —just sit
at the doorway, which abuts the street,
while the thoroughfares abound with
males, talking or standing about.
The usual street-market was evident,
and I was near as a touch to being hit
on the head by a market-basket let-down
on a string from above. The butchers’
shops delighted the eye with gleaming
marble, but a dejected sight were the
rows of goslings hanging in front of
the doorways, all deplumed and defluffed,
with heads gawking, the eyes glazed, and
often flanked by a hare or two, still ‘’in
fur.”
There I saw a public mass in the street
on Good Friday, and on Easter Saturday
two floats, borne by about thirty pall-
bearers (half of whom walked backwards,
motivated by a master - of - ceremonies
with a clacker). The first float depicted
the Crucifixion and the second the
Virgin, upright, and more than life-
size. In all, I encountered this procession
in three different streets, and each time
the traffic was completely blocked, as it
entirely filled the narrow way.
In Greece, on the day of the anni-
versary of the Liberation, the procession
in Athens showed everything they
possessed of military strength from
marching troops to earthmoving equip-
ment. In lighter vein was the tiny boy
dressed as a diminutive Evzone, heed-
ing the call of nature in the gutter!
In the streets of Athens as we
wandered window-shopping, I espied
shoes elegantly displayed, and a notice
for viewers and intending buyers stating
that they were Croco veritable.
TO ome was full of street - color. Two
men on a motorbike with a full-sized
wardrobe balanced horizontally on the
handlebars; St. Peter’s foreground, in
the shade of the colonnade, with several
priests surrounded by rolls, sausage,
and the übiquitous carafe of wine ; at
Porta Portese a vast street-market held
only on Sundays by shopkeepers
who bring their wares from their shops
elsewhere. I’ve never seen such a collec-
tion as they had there. New wearing-
apparel, books, maps, wrought - iron
furniture, secondhand household goods,
chairs, tables, motor-cars and spare-parts,
theatrical costumes and cheap jewellery;
just everything spread-out on the cobbles
for yards and yards.
Oh, yes, and not forgetting a grand-
piano (I wonder what they did with it
during the week?) and a breast-pump
(not too clean, either, but only one of
Flo Nightingale’s followers would have
noticed that!).
Passing through Assisi I saw a young
woman marching down the cobbled
street with a tub of wet washing on her
head, a baby on one arm, and clutching
a bag with her free hand. I couldn’t
help giving a passing thought as to which
of these articles she took-up first.
Switzerland —with streets so clean, and
trams so silent, where I revelled in
the musical sound of the voices of the
passers-by, and they were so polite and
helpful, in answer to my queries.
In Germany, at Frankfurt, all the
toilers making their way over vast empty
spaces where once stood buildings . . .
and in Holland you take your life in
your hands as soon as you step off the
curb. Those bikes! Just everywhere!
In Amsterdam passers-by in the street
gave much more willingly for charity
when aided by the music from a parading
brass-band. Also it was here that I heard
a piano played to a great crowd in the
street, and it was mounted on a bicycle.
And now, London. The buskers
charm you. Their few disguises and
props make a small collection in the
gutter. The tap-dancing adroitly avoids
the traffic, and the patter is topical. The
two I saw went on practically non-stop
—dancing, miming, clowning and quickly
turning to advantage any traffic-snarl
that occurred. They disappeared as if
by magic when the police appeared in a
street in Soho, but the latter were more
interested in the bosomy young ladies
who lined the shop-fronts, just waiting . . .
Nothing takes the eye so quickly as
the Guards, either marching or mounted.
No —on second thoughts, 1 was once
more agog-—in fact, carried over the bus-
stop (and entirely my own fault) —for I
was entranced by a man kissing a lass
in a taxi as it sped in the next traffic-lane
down Piccadilly!
“All right, do your side baby-pink and We'll see how it looks."


POLITICAL POINTS
Sydney poster competition, Saturday,
June 13. Mr. Henderson’s “Herald”:
“Aust. Honors —12 New Knights Listed.”
Sir Frank Packer’s “Telegraph”: “Queen
Names 13 Knights.”
• •
Somebody at the Sydney A.L.P. Con-
ference begged Cahill to improve his
State’s public transport “irrespective of
profit or loss.” The word “profit” must
have sounded strange in the Premier’s
ears. It has not been associated with
transport in Sydney within living
memory. And judging by the way Joe
is going, it will soon be out of all official
dictionaries.
• •
Announced as a surprise by Aus-
tralian papers over the weekend that
Menzies was going to Bonn and Paris
“at the special request of Mr. Mac-
millan” to try to settle the questions
which have defied all European leaders.
Considering the contempt some Austra-
lian dailies profess to have for the P.M.
it is surprising how strong a grip the
P.M.’s publicity-men seem able to keep
on their stretching legs.' Arrangement
for the Bonn and Paris visits were made
long before Menzies left Australia. If
he has been given any special missions—-
which is doubtful —they’re an after-
thought.
• o
The Doc. was excused from attend-
ing and addressing the Vic. A.L.P.
conference. That is to say, the Vic.
executive didn’t invite him because it
felt he “should not be asked to leave
Sydney overnight in view of his recent
attack of influenza.”
• •
Reluctantly, in view of the advantage
its present Labor majority gives the
party, Cahill has intimated that he’ll
obey conference orders and try to
abolish the N. S. Wales Legislative Coun-
cil. Not in a hurry, mind you. There’s
an abolition bill to be prepared and
passed and then a referendum bill to be
dittoed. Some time next year, says Joe.
The Liberal attitude on the Council
is not that it should be abolished, but
that it could do with a spot of reform,
particularly in the mode of its election.
The bi-cameral system isn’t quite as out-
of-date as its opponents would have us
believe. Most democratic countries use
it; almost all the new republics estab-
lished since the war have adopted it,
and it is the rule in all but a couple of
the 49 American States.
Voting in the by-election for the
Queensland Assembly seat of Mulgrave,
retained for the Country party by C. F.
Wordsworth, showed a drift from the
Q.L.P. to the A.L.P. since 1957. Closing
figures on the night of the poll gave
Wordsworth very much the same score
as the late R. H. Watson polled at that
stage in the general election (3132, com-
pared with 3193), but Q.L.P. candidate
C. B. English’s total fell away from 2133
on the previous occasion to 1306 on
June 6, while A.L.P. man L. Trembath
improved from 1702 to 2244. With postal
votes to come Wordsworth is expected
to pass the Country-party tally at last
election. -
» A
The daily press was full of rejoicing
that at the Sydney A.L.P. Conference
the Rights had defeated the Lefts who
proposed to hand Labor over to the
tender mercies of the Communists. The
extent of the victory may be gauged by
the fact that the Leader of the Leaders
among the opponents of the Left was
Dr. H. V. Evatt. As he bitterly scolded
those who support unity-tickets and
warned them of the awful penalties for
breach of A.L.P. rules, it was reported,
the Left was silent. Whether because it
was stunned or satisfied has yet to be
seen.
• •
The Lismore poll at the N. S. Wales
general election on March 21 was
“absolutely void,” Mr. Justice Sugerman
decided in the Court of Disputed Returns
last week. C. J. Campbell, Independent
Country-party candidate, had challenged
the election of J. S. Easter (Country
party) who had been declared the winner
by two votes. The judge directed that
the, costs of both Campbell and Easter
should be paid by the Crown.
No date has yet been fixed for the
by-election that will now be necessary in
Lismore.
• 6
“S.K.”: So a contract has been signed
to build a new Gladesville Bridge in
three years at a cost of £2,365,289 (B.
10/6/’59). In the light of the last two
big-bridge contracts entered into by
Cahill’s Government—those of Iron Cove
and The Spit—Sydney may now relax
and hope that the . new will
be completed by about 1967 at a cost of
around £8 million.
• •
New Zealand Minister for Industry
and Commerce Philip Holloway was last
week awarded £NZII,OOO damages in
his libel action against “Truth” news-
paper (N.Z.). The action arose out of
an article which Holloway claimed
libelled him by suggesting that he could
be “got at” to issue import-licences
dishonorably.
'• •
Sir William Holford, ace British town-
planner, who was here two years
ago to advise on the overall plan for
the development of Canberra, will be in
the Federal capital again this week. His
specific chore this time is to advise on
the landscaping and shore-treatment of
the central basin of the lakes.
-• •
Nasser hasn’t replied yet to requests
from the Australian and New Zealand
Governments for the handing back of
the Light Horse Memorial at Port Said,
which was damaged by Egyptian mobs
at the time of the Suez crisis in 1956,
but it is. expected that he’ll agree. On
the question of what to do with the
memorial, the best suggestion is that it
should be re-erected at Albany (W.A.).
It was in King George’s Sound that the
convoy of troopships carrying the First
Contingent of Australian and New
Zealand troops assembled in 1914.
“Do we dump this in in one lump, or do we sift it in, Harold?”


The Premiers’ Conference meets in
Canberra on June 23-24, and will seek to
place the distribution of Commonwealth
reimbursement of tax-collections on a
more equitable basis for Queensland and
Victoria, which are threatening to become
“claimant States.” Aren’t they all, if it
comes to that? They are clamant, at
any rate.
• •
After running their newspaper “The
Westralian Democrat” for two or three
issues, the W.A. branch of the D.L.P.
discovered that the official organ of the
Country party in W.A. was called “The
Western Democrat.” They’re now start-
ing up again as “The Western Standard.”
• •
Another Communist plot to overthrow
a new former “colonial” country has
been unearthed —this time in the Sudan,
which Nasser regarded as his personal
field of subversion in Africa. Nasser has
continued his blasts against Moscow, but
the denizens of the Kremlin are proving
themselves the most patient and under-
standing of friends. They have promised
their traducer that they are now willing
not only to build part of the Aswan Dam
but all of it. The response from Cairo
seems to have been ungrateful and rude.
• •
Two - hundred Californian school-
teachers will invade Sydney for a few
days next month. They are taking a
six-weeks’ round-trip in the Mariposa
under the auspices of the University of
Southern California and will work in
study-groups at subjects of their choosing
while on the cruise.
• •
For the first time in over a century
of Parliamentary Government in South
Australia, women members were sworn-
in at the opening of Parliament last week.
There were two of ’em —one in each
House. Mrs. Wilfred Steele, M.L.A. for
Burnside, became the first woman mem-
ber of the House of Assembly and Mrs.
Geoffrey Cooper had a similar distinction
in the Legislative Council. Both women
are Liberals, but Opposition and Govern-
ment members joined in welcoming
their admission to the previously all-
male cast.
• •
The Melbourne stevedore who, in
preference to having his licence cancelled,
undertook ■ to attend fortnightly on
Saturday nights at the casualty section
of Royal Melbourne Hospital to see
what happens when motorists drive
dangerously, has been permitted to do
so by the hospital authorities and the
trade-union concerned. He will act only
as an observer, so no bones and no rules
will be broken.
• •
W. A. Chaffey, M.L.A. for Tamworth,
and Deputy - Leader of the N.S.W.
Country party, is critical of the way in
which thousands of people are disfran-
chised at every N.S.W. election through
the restrictive provisions for postal-votes.
At the 1947 election, the last poll before
the McGirr amendments to the Electoral
Act were forced through Parliament,
30,000 postal- votes were recorded. Figures
for the recent election are not yet avail-
able, but at the 1956 poll only 500
postal-votes and 7300 electoral-visitor
votes were allowed.
Chaffey says that there is no record of
the number of applications made and
refused on the limited grounds available,
nor of the thousands who did not apply
because they knew they would be
refused.
e •
When the conference held in Tokyo
to discuss Antarctic whaling quotas ended
without any agreement being reached the
chairman, Hideo Okuhara, said it had not
broken down, but had laid the founda-
tion for future discussions. Representa-
tives of whaling interests in Norway,
Holland, Japan and the United Kingdom
attended the Tokyo talks and the same
four powers will meet again in London
—Russia is also invited—before the 17-
nation conference due to open there on
June 22.
• ©
With triumphant little cries, Victorian
Ministers announced last week that the
Liberal party had approved of a £25-
million underground-railway and that a
bill to give effect to the decision would
be introduced this year.
Yet the Melbourne tube seems as far
away as ever. Two-fifths of the cost will
be met by a special site-rating on city
properties in the area chiefly served by
the tube, and three-fifths will be depen-
dent on normal railway-loan provisions
and a “special State Government alloca-
tion” (which means what can be chipped
from the stony-hearted Loan Council).
Practical experts estimated the cost at
£l5 million in 1954, and, in 1958, for a
slightly more elaborate scheme, £25
million. The cost in seven to 10 years
hardly bears thinking about.
9 •
One of the first acts of the new Govern-
ment of Singapore was to ban eight news-
papers. Reports say the ban is not on
political but moral grounds ; the publi-
cations are mostly of the popular-
magazine type, such as “Weekender,”
“Weekender Annual” and “Fun Hua
Pao.”
9 0
“Ex-ACT”: Australia doesn’t always
get patted on the back by U.N. missions
to its trust-territories, but the U.N.
visitors last March to Nauru reported
that the standard of living of the 2158
indigenous people on the phosphate island
was much higher than that generally
found on other Pacific islands. The mis-
sion suggested that when the phosphate
deposits were exhausted in about 40
years’ time, if an island suitable in all
respects for resettlement of the com-
munity could not be found (and one
hasn’t to date), then there should be
“gradual integration” of the Nauruans
into the “metropolitan country of one
of the three administering authorities”
(Australia, New Zealand and Britain), or
into a territory of one of them with a
standard of living comparable with that
of Nauru.
• •
More shortcomings of N.Z.’s single-
chamber Parliament without a safe-
guarding written constitution are emerg-
ing. Critics detect a tendency to draft
bills in fairly general terms, thus open-
ing the door wider to Orders-in-Council
and a spate of regulations. Even Minis-
ters piloting bills through the House have
admitted to doubts about meanings or
implications of some clauses. Hence a
growing feeling that new laws should be
more carefully checked at source and
there should again be some form of
second chamber —not necessarily like the
old Legislative Council.
• •
The “dictation test” died an unlamented
death at midnight on May 31. No doubt
it had its useful moments, but it was a
miserable kind of subterfuge, reflecting
no credit on Australia. Like every other
country we have a right to decide whom
we will allow to come here. But if we
don’t want a man we should tell him so,
not pretend he is being rejected because
of his inability to pass a test in
Macedonian.
From now on every migrant arriving
here will be given an entry-permit. The
bloke who isn’t wanted just doesn’t get
a permit and that means he doesn’t get
ashore.
• •
“Ex-Aus.” (Kenya): Three things Aus-
tralia might profitably learn from
Kenya:
(1) Our decimal coinage.
(2) Abolition of probate-duty (this was
done in our last Budget with the idea of
attracting much-needed capital).
(3) Sensible hotel-trading hours—ll a.m.
to 2.30 p.m.; 6 p.m. to 10.30 p.m. Same
Sundays and. holidays.
• •
For a continent generally regarded as
having meagre timber-resources, Australia
isn’t doing badly. Interior Minister
Freeth told the 10th forestry conference
at Tumut (N.S.W.) that if it were possible
to prevent a substantial percentage of
the loss of timber caused by disease and
insects we would have no need to import
timber. He added that Australian pro-
duction had now reached the “impressive
figure of 6370 million super.-feet” in log
volume, of which half was sawn-timber,
a third wood for fuel, and about 10
per cent, pulp-wood for the making of
paper and fibreboard. Sleepers, poles,
piles, mining-timber and fencing took the
balance. The Minister- thought that be-
cause a third of all timber came from
private property there was a strong case
for the creation of greater forestry
reserves.
• •
After reaching £stgl 161 million in
April —their highest for eight years—
United Kingdom reserves of gold and
convertibles fell by £47 million in May.
The drop was explained by a payment of
£5B million to the International Monetary
Fund, representing the increase in the
U.K. subscription to the fund.


Personal
ITEMS
“Yen”: From Bonnie Scotland I send
news of old Bulletin writer Will Ogilvie,
whom I eventually ran to earth at his
home, Kirklea, a converted manse stand-
ing in a nook of the River Ale, a mile
from the village of Ashkirk, which lies
between Hawick and Selkirk. Ogilvie,
now in his 91st year, carries his age
remarkably well. His wife remains a
tower of strength to him and recounts
vividly much of their colorful past. Their
living-room overflows with books, old
prints, photographs and various objects,
most of them horsey, received from
admirers all over the world.
• • *
In 1889 Arthur Randolph Thomson
joined the head-office staff of the Sydney
Meat Preserving Co. in premises at the
corner of George and Hunter Streets.
Appointed secretary in 1907, he held that
position until 1941, when he became a
director. He retired from the board,
because of failing eyesight, at the end of
May last after an unbroken 70 years’
service, which must surely constitute a
record for Sydney. He is now 85, but
his upright bearing and firm step would
be the envy of many younger men.
* *
Melbourne Customs - men gave a
rousing send-off (and a crystal cabinet)
last week to George Carter, who retired
after 50 years with} the Commonwealth
Public Service, the last 47 of them in
the Customs, where he’s been one of the
most agreeable officials that travellers
could meet.
He enlisted from W.A. for World War
1, but the troopship brought him back
to Melbourne, and he liked the look of
the flushed-with-victory cable-trams so
much that he got a transfer to Melbourne
and has stayed at the job in Flinders
Street ever since, doing a stint as wharf-
inspector, but in recent years as a senior
inspector handling invoices, import- •
licences and similar dynamite.
George Carter was also given a dinner
by 250 officers of shipping and Customs,
and now hopes to settle down to more
serious and concentrated bowls.
• •
Chairman of the race-committee of the
Ski Club of N.S.W. and member of the
Ski Clubs of Great Britain and Aus-
tralia and of the Kosciusko Alpine Club,
Donald Charles Maclurcan has been
appointed manager of the Australian
team of skiers and skaters at the. XVIII
Winter Olympics. The games are to be
held at Squaw Valley, California, in
February, 1960. A busy season of competi-
tion lies ahead, starting with the N.S.W.
Alpine Championships at Crackenback
in the Snowy Mountains on August 1 and
2, with a series of other events throughout
the month, culminating in the National
Ski Championships at Mount Butler
(Vic.). From these competitions Mac-
lurcan and his fellow-selectors George
Chisholm (Vic.) and Jan Godowski
(A.C.T.) —will choose the team to repre-
sent Australia at the games.
Maclurcan (sketched herewith) is an
architect by profession and has acted
for his firm as consulting-architect to the
MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER
Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Autho-
rity. He confesses to having had a little to
do with the designing of “The Teahouse
of the August Moon,” a prominent land-
mark overlooking the giant dam at
Eucumbene. Born in Sydney and edu-
cated at Riverview, he served during
War II with the 2/ 14th Field Company,
R.A.E., in the Middle East and Syria,
and later in New Guinea, taking to
winter-sports on return to Australia.
Since then he has travelled in Europe
for three years making a special study
of ski-race organisation, and has raced
in club, State, national and international
championships.
• •
“M.0.H.”: Bevin Porter, aged 17, of
Carnelian Street, Holland Park (Q.), the
first Queensland blind boy trained for
engineering-work, is looking for a job.
Trained as a machine-tool operator, he
can also work a locally devised instrument
—the only one of its kind in Australia —
for measuring component parts of engi-
neering-products. He will take this instru-
ment with him to any job available. He
is one of five blind Brisbane youths
attending special engineering-classes
conducted by the technical assistant to
Professor Shaw of Queensland Univer-
sity's engineering-school.
• •
An Australian Franciscan priest, Father
Celsus Kelly, after seven-years’ overseas
research in widely scattered archives, has
completed the MS. of a volume entitled
Australia del Espiritu Santo. To be pub-
lished by the Hakluyt Society, the work
will include translations of various docu-
ments relating to the Quiros expedition
and the pre-discovery period of Austra-
lian history.
• •
“Siosal”: The death of Frank William
Boreham (B. 3/6/’59) received only a
passing and belated reference in one
Sydney daily and was given no mention
at all by the others. Melbourne, how-
ever, paid seemly homage to this eloquent
and broadminded preacher, leader-writer
and author of some 40 agreeable and
uplifting books. I always link Dr. Bore-
ham’s name with that of C. J. Dennis.
If the parson and the poet were very
dissimilar in many ways, they struck a
certain unity through Den’s verse, which
the reverend and revered doctor was one
of the first to “discover,” and which he
acclaimed both from the pulpit and in
his writings. That caused Den to send
him autographed copies of certain verses
as they appeared, and these remained
among the Boreham treasures. Only a
few years ago, when the Selected Verse
of C. J. Dennis was published, the old
preacher-writer rallied to the cause again,
in the “Australian Christian World,” with
a review in which he renewed his appre-
ciation of “the brilliance, human tender-
ness, and exuberant humor” manifested
by the author of The Sentimental Bloke.
• •
Zelman Cowan, Dean of the Law
Faculty at Melbourne University, has
been co-opted again by the British
Colonial Office. He is legging it in July,
this time for Accra, capital of the new
sovereign State of Ghana with
four other professors, from the univer-
sities of Harvard, London and Kashmir,
he will recommend the structure of a
system of legal education for the former
Gold Coast colony.
He was one of the protagonists of the
conference in Singapore in 1956 which
led to the establishment of the Malaya
University Law School, and he assisted
Peter Brett, senior lecturer of Mel-
bourne Law School, to draw-up, at the
Colonial Office’s request, the land-law
code for the State of Brunei the same
year.
• o
Calling it a day because of ill-health,
after 32 years in the Chair of Physics,
Alexander Leicester McAulay ends a
family association with the University
of Tasmania dating from when his father,
Alexander McAulay, became first Pro-
fessor of Mathematics and Physics there.
Graduating as B.Sc. in 1916, A. L.
McAulay completed his studies overseas
and, after taking his degrees as Ph.D.
at Manchester and M.A. at Cambridge,
came back to the Speck and was


appointed Professor of Physics in 1927.
The Uni. calendar lists some 26 of his
research-publications, and a factory which
grew-up from his war-time optical-
instrument research has given Hobart a
prosperous industry. His other lines of
research are mainly concerned with
biophysics.
• o
Passed on in Perth, at 91, Canon
Edward Mallon Collick, one of the best-
known and most popular Anglican
ministers in Westralia. Born in London
and ordained before coming here, he
started his ministry at Coolgardie,
Boulder and thereabouts —when he left
Boulder to go to the Boer War as
chaplain with the Westralian contingent
his parishioners made him a farewell-
gift of £l5O, which he characteristically
spent in giving a Christmas-treat to the
local aborigines. In 1916 he went over-
seas with the old 44th Battalion and in
War II was on home-service as a chaplain.
Until failing health obliged him to give
it up about three years ago he always
conducted the annual South African War
memorial-service in King’s Park. For 25
years before his retirement in 1950 he
was rector of St. John’s, Fremantle.
• •
Met at Perth airport, Oliver Wallop,
Viscount Lymington, elder son of the
Earl of Portsmouth, who intends to
open a broking-house in Sydney. After
serving in the R.N.V.R. he tried farming
in Kenya, but gave that away for the
stage, acting in stock-companies in
England and the U.S. More recently he
has been an insurance-broker with Lloyds
of London.
DR. NORMAN BEHAN, born at
Normanton (Q.) and a graduate of
Queensland- University, is now in private
practice in Brisbane and visiting surgeon
to the Mater Hospital there. He’s a
trustee of the National Art Gallery and
a member of the University Senate.
Birthday Honors:
K.C.M.G.:
The Most Rev. James Duhig, Roman
Catholic Archbishop of Brisbane.
Mr. Justice Albert Asher Wolff, Chief
Justice of Westralia.
K.8.E.:
Sir John Allison, chairman of the
Export Development Council, Depart-
ment of Trade.
Walter Eric Bassett, consulting engi-
neer, of Armadale (Vic.), and a member
of the C.5.1.R.0. radio-astronomy trust.
Edward Emerton Warren, a member
of the N.S.W. Legislative Council and
chairman of the Australian Coal Asso-
ciation.
Charles Andrew Cotton, Professor of
Geology at the Victoria University
College, Wellington (N.Z.).
K.:
, Etdgar Barton Coles, deputy-chairman
of G. J. Coles, Ltd., and past-president
of the Victorian Retail Trades Asso-
ciation.
Hans Heysen, of Hahndorf (S.A.),
“elder statesman of Australian art.”
Douglas Frank Hewson Packer, chair-
man of Australian Consolidated Press, Ltd.
Sidney Barton Pope, prominent
Adelaide industrialist.
Christopher Sheehy, of Brisbane, chair-
man of the Australian Dairy Produce
Board.
Mr. Justice Timothy Cleary, Judge of
the N.Z. Court of Appeal.
Arthur Tange, Permanent Secretary,
Department of External Affairs.
Mr. Justice Alfred Kingsley North,
Judge of the N.Z. Court of Appeal.
Frederick William Thomas, Lord
Mayor of Melbourne.
Dr. Alexander Gillies, of Wellington
(N.Z.).
Herbert Leon Trout, of Brisbane,
Federal president of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce of Australia.
e •
One of the finest Shakspearian actors
Australia has produced, John Alden has
been working hard these past few months,
getting a young company ready for the
opening of his season at Melbourne
Comedy last weekend, with “The Mer-
chant of Venice” —himself as Shylock.
The season will also include “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream,” “The Winter’s
Tale” and “King Lear” —he has proved
himself outstandingly notable as Lear.
With this company —under the Firm’s
house-flag —he will tour both Australia
and N.Z. until well into next year,
gradually extending the repertoire.
Alden left his native Taree (N.S.W.)
when he won a scholarship to Sydney
University. There, Professors J. Le Gay
Brereton and E. R. Holme opened-up
the vistas of Shakspeare to him. He
graduated B.A. at 20, taught in various
schools for a decade, then gave the black-
board away for the stage. Meantime he
had been climbing up the theatre-ladder
at nights and weekends with Doris
Fitton’s Independents, playing leads in
Shaw’s “Apple Cart” and in “Pride and
Prejudice.” He tried his luck in England,
and at the end of War II was touring
with a company in Japan for a year.
He has produced a swag of plays for
the A.B.C. —his radio-work goes back to
the days when he did serials for George
Edwards (at five-bob an episode!). And
the TV “live” play in which he recently
ACTOR ALDEN
appeared offers good things in the future
for viewers. Big and genial, Alden’s
sparkle, vitality, and appearance
generally, all combine to make the date
on his birth-certificate look unbelievable.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 78, the Rev. M. H.
Vaughan. He was 54 years in the priesthood,
the last 30 years as parish-priest in Thornbury.
In Sydney, at 77, Burford Sampson, who left
his native Tasmania at 17 for the South African
War, and then, after some years in the Cape
Mounted Police, served throughout War I
from the Landing to the Armistice with the
old 15th Battalion, being wounded three times
and ending as lieut.-colonel, with D.S.O. and
“mention.” A Senator from 1925-47, he was
Chairman of Committees and Deputy President
of the Senate from 1935-38.
At Toowoomba (Q.), at 71, Norman James
Proctor, pioneer settler of the Jandowae dis-
trict. He was with the sth Light Horse in
War I.
At Gisborne (N.Z.), in his 100th year, Thomas
Dennis, believed to have been the last survivor
of the pursuers of Maori rebel Te Kooti In
1868. His son was a member of the Maori
Rugby All Black team that toured England,
France and Wales in 1926.
At Drillham (Q.), a few days before his
100th birthday, Alex Poole, who used to be
one of Queensland's best horsemen and until
10 years ago was still breaking and riding.
In Melbourne, at 86, Frank Groves, formerly
Victorian Minister for Railways and Electrical
Undertakings, Mayor of Chelsea (Vic.) in 1922,
and president of Fern Tree Gully National
Park.
In Dandenong (Vic.), at 88, George Keys,
breeder and judge of Ayrshire cattle and life-
member of the Royal Agricultural Society and
of the Ayrshire Herd Book Society.
In England, Captain J. F. Whitfeld, D.S.C.,
R.N., commander of H.M.N.Z.S. Black Prince,
1953-55. He was in command during the
Royal Tour, when the cruiser escorted the
Gothic.
In Sydney, at 63, Dr. Eric Leo Susman,
Warden of Clinical Studies at Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital. Wounded on Gallipoli, he
served again, with the R.A.N., in War 11.


ABORIGINALITIES
CJince we’ve become pioneer-conscious,
it would be a good idea to com-
memorate more of the four - footed
pioneers that made pioneering possible.
The Light Horse mounts and Simpson’s
donkey each have fitting monuments,
but I know of none to the explorers’
horses: some of them, like Macdouall
Stuart’s indomitable Polly, battled home
again with their riders, but many were
killed and eaten for their pains. With
widespread land-settlement came the
draught-horses and bullocks, which once
a year set-off for the nearest port with
the settlers’ wool and "other produce, to
return with a year’s supply of stores and
necessities, the round-trip often taking
months. To the arid interior came the
camel-teams and donkey-teams carrying
settlement beyond the reach of horses
and bullocks. Much has been written of
the kelpies and cattledogs, which still
do men’s work on many properties,
but we’ve had very little of that noble
animal to which many an outback kiddie
owes his life —the milch-goat. Even Long-
reach (Q.), a town that has ridden on
the goat’s back since its earliest days,
now gets its milk by refrigerated-train
from 400 - miles - distant Rockhampton,
and intends to rid itself of “the goat
nuisance.” Talk about ingratitude!
But at least the goat is in little danger
of becoming nothing but a curiosity and
“Cocky wants a drink—Cocky Wants a drink.”
a noxious animal, like the wild descen-
dants of the pioneer camels and donkeys ;
at least, not while there is a seemingly
increasing percentage of children who
are allergic to cow’s milk. —“Miss M.”
* * * *
“F.R.H.”: My mate was mustering a
mob of wethers on his B.S.A. As he
swerved to avoid a stump his dog, riding
on the petrol-tank, slipped, and, struggling
to retain balance, found a foothold on
the spark-plug. Flying Doctor —a serious
type —remarked: “It is not wise to
carry a dog on a motorbike.”
* * * *
“Jeyles”: Four days left of the cruise,
and spouse loses best black evening-bag
holding £ll. She was sure it was either
at the pictures or in the “Ladies.”
Purser’s and chief-steward’s offices noti-
fied, and notice-board brought nil result.
Morning we pull into Port Jackson, she
returns from breakfast to cabin to find
Ah Hing just finished stripping the bunks
with the obvious and curious exception
of her two pillows. Says the grizzle-
headed old Cantonese, lifting a corner of
the bottom pillow delicately, “Don’t for-
get, Missy, where you keep little black
bag.”
# H: *
“Splodger”: In a lifetime spent on
cattle-runs and sheep-stations, the sound
of horse-bells in the near - distance is
music which lulls me to sleep ; yet one
horse with a single bell,
cropping close at hand, is
enough to keep me awake.
I’ve slept peacefully beside
a yard in which cows and
calves have been held for
branding in the morning;
but if I’m camped near a
waterhole and a solitary cow
calls her calf I'm awake
until it stops.
* * *
“Myall”: Here in Queens-
land I cooked a big haul of
prawns and distributed them
among friends, several of
whom presently became
violently ill. Then I re-*
membered that I had made
two boilings of my catch,
and in one I had found a
tiny toadfish, about an inch
long, that had accidentally
been included. They’re as
poisonous as that!
* * *
“Fair Mac”: “Jeyles” is
not explicit enough in his
statement that so - called
kid - gloves are made of sheepskin (B.
20/5/’59). They are made from the skin
of unborn lambs —“slinks” to slaughter-
men. Don’t know the procedure in these
days of the chain-system, but when the
solo-killing method was in use at the
N.S.W. State Abattoirs “slinks” were
considered very valuable, and carefully
removed
* * * *
“Wommadoo”: Many properties have
been named “Waterloo,” but none more
appropriately than the old station near
Glen Innes (N.S.W.) from which the
Waterloo Range takes its name. In the
earliest official record of holdings and
boundaries, compiled during the late
1840’s, William Vivers, of nearby King’s
INTEGRATED ADJECTIVE
/ was down on Riverina, knockin’ round
the towns a bit,
An' occasionally restin’, with a schooner
in me mitt;
An’ on one o’ these occasions, when the
bar was pretty full
An’ the local blokes were arguin’ assorted
kinds o’ bull,
1 heard a conversation, most peculiar in
its way,
Because only in Australia would you hear
a joker say
“Where yer bloody been yer drongo?
’Aven’t seen yer fer a week ;
An’ yer mate was lookin’ for yer when ’e
come in from the Creek ;
’E was lookin' up at Ryan’s, an’ around
at bloody Joe’s,
An’ even at the Royal where ’e bloody
never goes.”
An' the other bloke said “Seen ’im. Owed
’im ’alf a bloody quid.
Forgot ter give ut back to ’im ; but now
I bloody did.
Coulda used the thing me-bloody-self ;
been orf the bloody booze,
Up at Tumba-bloody-rumba shootin
kanga-bloody-roos.”
Now their voices were a little loud, an’
everybody heard
The peculiar integration of this adjectival
word.
But no one there wax laughin’, an me l
wasn’t game,
So I stood around an’ let ’em think I
spoke the bloody same.
An’ one of ’em was interested to ask ’im
what he’d got —
How many kanga-bloody-roos he bloody
went an’ shot —
An the shootin’ bloke said “Things are
crook; the drought’s too bloody
tough ;
I got forty-bloody-seven, an’ that’s good
e-bloody-nough.”
An’ this polite rejoinder seemed to satisfy
the mob,
An’ everyone stopped listenin’ an’ got on
with the job,
Which was drinkin’ beer an’ arguin’ an’
talkin’ of the heat,
An’ boggin in the bitumen in the middle
of the street;
But as for me I’m here to say the
interestin’ news
Was “Tumba-bloody-rumba shootin’
kanga-bloody-roos.”
N.S.W.
JOHN O'GRADY.
(“NINO CULOTTA.”)




Plains, claimed that he had been using
the area for some years past, but that
now it was being claimed by Alexander
Campbell on behalf of the Macintyre
family (for whom the Macintyre River
was named). The sturdy Campbell, first
settler in the district, had taken-up
Inverell station on his own behalf, and
Byron Plains (where he acted as over-
seer) on behalf of the Macintyres. His
dispute with William Vivers was finally
settled, like many an early boundary-
dispute, by means of a fist-fight, in which
the Macintyre interests triumphed. The
debatable land, rechristened Waterloo,
was sold in 1896 by J. A. Macintyre to
John Sinclair, who painted and preserved
the post marking the scene of the fateful
battle, and his descendants, who still own
the homestead block, have kept up the
good work.
* * * *
“Quartercut”: Like “Amooragnir” (B.
22/4/’59), I find my fox-terriers unpre-
dictable on scent. They cross a trail
made by a scooting bunny hours before,
and it’s as clear to them as if signposted.
Their noses lead them unerringly to
snakes and unprofitably to echidnas. Last
week I dug a drain flanking a 10yd.-
square of creek-bed wire-grass and fern
that stank of fox. Pooches lackadaised
around for half-an-hour before they
investigated the lair. I leant on shovel
to watch the outcome. One big dog-fox
nonchalantly ambled out and up the bare
hillside. Ten seconds later out came the
terriers by the same exit, and they hadn’t
a clue where Reynard had gone.
• * * *
“Angus McScupper”: The British
Admiralty announces that, to avoid con-
fusion with a tanker of similar name,
H.M.S. Tiderace is renamed Tidal Flow.
Scuttlebutt has it that the Lords also
took a dim view of the unanimity of
the lower-decks in rhyming the former
name with the monicker of that simper-
ing exploiter of Mozart and Momism,
Liberace. It seemed a bit far-fetched to
me, but my painter, an ex-matelot, always
names his serving-ship as the carrier
Endeavour-tig-able.
* * * *
“Faraway”: Not only the old-timers
lived “on” the goldfields (B. 29/4/’59);
citizens of Charters Towers are still re-
ferred to as residing “on The Towers.”
A little gold is nowadays mined there,
and it is mainly a cattleman’s town and
an educational centre, but at heart it
remains a goldfield. I have been asked
if my children go to school “on The
Towers,” and I have since seen
the phrase twice in our paper re-
ferring to present - day doings and
people “on The Towers.” Incidentally,
the “The” in front of various northern
towns, “The Curry,” “The Isa,” “The
Towers,” etc., asked about in The
Bulletin a little time ago, is surely just
the affectionate diminutive for “The
Cloncurry Field,” “The Mt. Isa Field,”
and so on ; all the towns thus known
are, or were, mining-fields.
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: Nouns of assembly are in the
air again, and a few corkers have come to
light. They range from a “spring” of
teal to a “babelynge” of ducks. Also on
the bird-list is a “nye” of pheasants and
a “fall” of woodcock. In the furry world
we have a “bysynesse” of weasels, a
“fesnyng” of mink (a term reserved, of
course, for the snowy wastes and not for
a congregation of mink at society do’s),
and a “stealth” of jaguars. A “sounder”
is a mob of wild boars, but a number of
tame pigs is a “doylt.”
* * * *
“Jaybee”: Two of us, both Victorians,
were having a drink in a Canberra pub
when a local entered and immediately
spoke to two other drinkers, who shook
their heads. He then pushed through
the crowd straight to us, and asked if
either of us owned the car with the
Victorian number-plate. On acknowledg-
ing ownership, my friend was informed
that two dogs had treed a possum and
were using the car-bonnet as a spring-
board to get at it. As he rushed out the
informant remarked: “I knew it’d be one
of you you’ve got hats on.” Sure
enough, inquiry revealed that the other
two drinkers (with hats) were also visitors
from Victoria. Well, I ask —are cabbage-
gardeners the only true cady-fanciers in
this land of ours?
* * * *
“Miss M.”: Some friends of ours,
while making alterations to their century-
old homestead, pulled-down an external
wall, and found it was really three walls.
First there were the weatherboard exterior
and plasterboard interior that they knew
so well; between were the hand-hewn
slabs of the original building, and a floor-
to-ceiling pise wall, most difficult to
demolish —the result of 100 years’ work
by mud-wasps.
“Jasby”: Pidgin as spoken in New
Guinea is a vastly different lingo from
the jargon which developed as a com-
mercial language along the China coast,
and apparently a different version still
has evolved in West Africa. The Ghana
“Evening News,” an English-language
newspaper published in Accra, runs a
daily column under the title “Zongo
Gossip.” A sample:
Goodibning mah gutfrensh! Yesteday
ebe wunnerful day for Sukunde for de
Wessen Rijin becos mah big Fren Braddah,
Dokita Ankurumah go bisit for dere.
Worl de piplos hrush for de pilace for go
mittam. Horse piplos O, takisi piplos O,
barsikli O, worl dey insaad. Wen de
piplos cam finis den Dokita Ankurumah
1 tork sum propro sense for dem. In telli
dem dat de Gabina go sipen pilanty monni
for de Farf Yeer Divlopment for dis we
i Ghana heya. De monni pilanty lek two
hongred milliyan pans, but wen de Yinglis
piless piplos hassam whi side de monni bo
cam from, won tiem Dokita Ankurumah
telli dem say ebe Ghana inself git dis
monni. Ghana no go go for no Hovasee
monni landa for go git di monni for de
Farf Yeer Divlopment.
Once you get the swing of it it’s quite
easy. “Professor Yaro’s” chatty column
translates something like this:
Good evening, my good friends. Yester-
day was a wonderful day for Sekondi and
the Western Region because the Premier,
Dr. Nkrumah, visited there. All the people
rushed the place to go with him. People
on horses, people in taxis, on bicycles, they
all go inside. When the people were all
there Dr. Nkrumah talked some proper
sense to them. He told them that the
Government was going to spend plenty of
money for the Five Year Development Plan
for us here in Ghana. Plenty money, about
£2OO million, but when the English press
people asked them where the money was
coming from Dr. Nkrumah told them to
say Ghana itself will get the money. Ghana
is not going to go to any overseas money-
lender for the money for this Five Year
Development.
Yaro doesn’t confine himself to politics.
Work this piece out:
Yesteday de Ankara Deestrik Missis
Ghana Booty kompitishun dem mikkam
for de Ankara Komity Senta. Pilanty
womans piplos go for dere for be chuus
for dis “Missis Ghana 1959.”


TpHE yellow-throated honeyeater flew
through the window, landed on the
table, walked across to the sugar-bowl
and, after eating his fill, loaded-up his
beak and flew out again. I was sitting at
the table, not more than 12in. from
the sugar. My Tasmanian host there
told me it’s a common occurrence and not
confined to sugar. Yellow-throat is also
fond of blowflies, and before eating them
will, if he gets the chance, dip them in the
honey!—“Smithy.”
* * * *
“Q.Ree” (Fiji): It’s an ill wind....;
One Niue Islander, talking of the recent
hurricane that blew down a large part
of their housing, destroyed their food-
and copra-crops, 10 of the 13 villages, and
catchment-areas on the waterless island,
and caused Niue Island to be declared a
distressed area, said: “If we hadn’t had
the hurricane, we would never have seen
a helicopter.”
* * * *
“Norque”: The theory that
rhythmically-measured tread might col-
lapse bridges originally applied to
pontoon-bridges, which, composed of
flat - bottomed craft moored in flowing
water, were very unsteady when traversed
by marching troops who failed to break-
step. My battalion of the P. 8.1., serving
in an Indian province drained by
tributaries of the Ganges, had frequent
experience of pontoon - bridges. On
approach to one the leading company
would break-step, and at intervals of
about 100yds. along its entire length
each successive company would do
likewise.
* * * *
“Piketrailer” (Bahrien): Here’s a
tricky Army “Q” question—how many
bearskins to a bear? By bearskins I
mean, of course, the headgear of Her
Majesty’s Foot Guards. When the
Canadian town of Timmins read of
criticism of some of the Guards’ bear-
skins as being old and scruffy its citizens
elected to go right out and shoot some
of the original owners of the skin in
question on behalf of the less sartorial
members of the Brigade of Guards.
Despite good weather and some 100
hunters, the hunt, which will go on for
a month, has so far bagged only three
bears. The Mayor’s target-figure is 300.
My kids reckon things have slipped a little
since ol’ Davy Crockett was about.
* * * *
“Myall”: “Baggo” (B. 13/5/’59) is off-
beam in stating that the sugar-bag has
ended its 75 years’ service to Queens-
land’s sugar-industry. Townsville’s bulk-
loading will handle only sugar produced
in the surrounding districts ; and there
are many mills in other localities where
sacks will be used for some years yet.
He also errs in describing thfe sugar-bag
as being valuable for hand-transport.
Actually, the bag used in conveying raw
sugar from mills to refineries is a 1801 b.
sack, similar to the wheat-sack but
stronger. Only refined-sugar is packed in
the well-known 701 b. bags (for conveni-
ence, 32 to the ton) for easier handling,
without the use of dog-hooks. Here’s
hoping that the good old “Bundaberg
port” will not be replaced by plastic-bags
for many years yet. No article (except
perhaps the kerosene-tin) has so many
uses, especially in country districts.
“ Cripes, Mary, We bin invited , to a plurry pyjama-party!”
- “Macquarie”: When aviculturists first
began to breed budgerigars it was
unanimously accepted that the only way
the hens could be induced to nest in a
wooden box was by fixing a long spout to
the entrance-hole. Further, the bottom of
the nest-box needed to be hollowed-out
in the centre so that any misplaced egg
would roll back under the hen. Spout-
length was gradually reduced, but the
birds still went to nest. When a lazy man
tried a nest-box without any spout it was
accepted without any fuss. Then the
hollow in the floor was eliminated. But
I was not experimenting when this
occurred: The hens in my big aviary were
fighting over the nest-boxes. Not wishing
to breed any more birds this season, any-
way, I decided to settle the disputes by
removing the lids of the boxes. The
fights stopped ; a few eggs were laid, but
neglected. That’s what I thought—until
squawkings from a box on the back wall
demanded investigation. I wonder what
the early breeders would have called a
bloke who claimed to have bred budgies
in a spoutless, flat-bottomed box with no
top whatsoever!
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Shipping goods in steel con-
tainers was standard practice in the days
when most goods on long voyages were
carried by sailing-ships. The “ship’s tank”
was made of heavy-gauge galvanised-iron,
riveted and soldered at the seams and
fitted with a manhole-cover which locked
in place by being turned through half
a circle. The tanks were square and were
made in three sizes ; 100, 200 and 400
gallons. Contents ranged from toilet-soap
to groceries and from boots and shoes
to dress-materials. On the voyage, the
tank protected them from pillage, damp,
rats, weevils and cockroaches. It also
made the cargo fireproof. In Australia
the tanks had a ready sale for carting
water and as household rain-storages. Up
to 30 years ago many of those tanks, some
50 years old, could still be seen in use.
COMPANY’S SEAL
“Under the Common Seal of the
Company.’’
Magical words!
Being Common what is under the Seal?
Fish-heads, Worcestershire-sauce bottles,
beer-cans,
Or soft, clean sand?
A smooth rock, maybe,
With an antimacassar of kelp studded
with periwinkles?
Or is the Seal, Common, of the Company
Elevated above the Board table
So that all documents of importance are
signed under him?
If so, is he couchant on a board
With drooping eyelids and quivering
whiskers
Or rampant in a glass aquarium
So that visiting Directors must raise
umbrellas as well as eyebrows?
Oh delicious conjecture!
Oh naughty wonder!
Does the Common Seal signify the end of
a Meeting
With a fine, devil-may-care raspberry?
“Signed under the Common Seal.”
Magical words.
But what of the documents marked:
“The Common Seal of the Company was
hereunto affixed
By Order of the Board”?
Uncommon Common Seal.
What pictures you evoke in idle minds—
what magic!
N.S.W.
N. L. RAY


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullen.*
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone Cables & Telegrams
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L532.7 “EMDECELEX,” Sydney
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, R. A. MeINNES, N. \V. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Erehange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building',
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 27G1 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
Business, Robbery, Etc.
SHARE PRICES AND TRADING RESULTS
r T' I HE easing of Australian
sharemarkets is quite nor-
mal in view of the steep rises
of the past few weeks. Even
at latest lower prices, yields
from sharemarket leaders are
still very poor.
A slackening in prices of
second-rankers preceded the
setback in the “top” stocks.
A number of companies
which had reported stimulat-
ing developments had previ-
ously risen to much higher
levels and then tended to ease-
off. The last rockets in the
sky before the current general
reaction were those topliners
B.H.P. and C.S.R. They had
nothing in particular to report
of a financial nature, though
B.H.P. last week started its
new blast-furnace at Port
Kembla.
Elsewhere in these pages
considerable space is devoted
to the annual survey of the
Industries Division of the De-
partment of Trade. It repre-
sents a commentary on manu-
facturing activity for 10
months of the current financial
year up to April, and is an
indicator of what overall
results among Australian
industrial companies are likely
to be for the year which will
close at the end of this month.
The survey generally speaks
of sustained activity, greater
(often partly idle) capacity,
keener competition, higher
efficiency and lower costs. But
there is no suggestion of easy
money in business as a whole.
Every company, it is clear, has
to be considered on its particu-
lar merits.
In Melbourne on June 11
chairman Staniforth Ricketson
told shareholders in Jonathan
Investment, Ltd., that present
high prices of shares had
brought up the question of
whether a market shakeout or
readjustment was not overdue.
If a shakeout occurred it
would merely represent some-
thing that had often hap-
pened in sharemarkets; and
Jonathan Investments was
well placed to take advantage
of any such fall. At balance-
date most of the capital was
still held for progressive invest-
ment.
In West Australia ,a financial
trend evident in the milling
industry elsewhere has been
“Asian 'flu, virus 'flu, four-day 'flu —how come I never
get any of these new-fangled epidemics?"
revealed by the proposed take-
over of the four 'biggest
bakeries by W. Thomas and
Co. (W.A.), Ltd., flourmillers.
The trend began in Aus-
tralia with the acquisition by
Weston’s (of England) of the
ord. shares in Gartrell White
(Sydney) and then of other
baking concerns by the same
group. Allied Mills, Ltd., a
large flour-milling concern, to
protect its own interests,
started buying bakeries as well,
and went into the margarine
business by acquiring two-
thirds of the shares in Mow-
bray, Ltd., the other third being
taken-up by Gillespie Bros., a
milling firm which was also
interested in bakeries.
Both tie-ups have been pro-
fitable, and have brought big
expansion in their train, as
well as less reliance on the
at-present unprofitable export
trade in flour.
Keen and watchful manage-
ment of this type is necessary
throughout present - day
industry. On a broader scale
and in a somewhat different
field, similar diversification in
allied industries is being
carried on by Mauri Bros, and
Thomson, Ltd.
Manufacturing, 1958-59
A “Survey of Manufactur-
ing Activity” made by
the Industries Division of
the Department of Trade
assembled data available up to
April 30, but the report, cover-
ing as it does 10 months of the
current financial year, may be
taken as an outline of the
experience for the whole 1958-
59 term.
The “Survey” will be pub-
lished in full, with a more
detailed summary of condi-
tions in 44 selected manufac-
turing industries, in July.
In the general preview made
available last week, the depart-
ment reports that manufac-
turing continued to expand
during 1958 and early months
of 1959. But there was a shift
in the pattern of production.
In April, 1959, almost all
industries producing invest-
ment goods were operating well
above the levels of a year
previously; those producing
basic materials and compon-
ents for industry also ex-
panded their production;
industries that produce
consumer-goods had a more
variable experience; many—
particularly textile industries —
operated at the same or lower
levels than a year ago.
Increased production enabled
many industries to operate
more efficiently, and others
reported increased labor pro-
ductivity following the instal-
lation of more efficient
machinery and equipment.
These gains, together with
some cost-reductions resulting
from lower prices of raw
materials, were often offset by
increased costs of services and
slight wage-increases, but a
significant number of manu-
facturers reported that unit-
costs were lower than in the
early months of 1958.
Many manufacturers are
operating well below capacity,
and in most industries produc-
tion could be lifted consider-
ably. The market has remained
Competitive, therefore, even
for industries experiencing
strong demand for their pro-
ducts. Many manufacturers
reported price - reductions,
which, though not general,
were widespread. They were
noticeable particularly in
industries producing consumer-
goods, but were also reported
by manufacturers in industries
supplying plant, equipment
and machinery.
Unskilled labor has been
freely available throughout the
past year, but, with increasing
activity in engineering and
basic industries, difficulty in
recruiting skilled workers was
widely reported.
In the industries covered by
the trade’s survey, manufac-
turers expect to spend more on
new plant and buildings during
the remainder of 1959 than in
the comparable period in 1958,


1
mmm
wm: m
■m
w
Wales
the
talk
to
houlu
You s
If your money’s lying idle, I’d suggest you
put it on interest-bearing deposit with the
“Wales”. It couldn’t be safer and the
interest is quite good when you consider
the security you get. You can deposit
amounts from £5 upwards, for three
months, six months, a year, or two years
whichever Is most convenient for you.
There’s no better short-term investment.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
Over 1,000 branches and agencies throughout
Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New
Guinea, and three branches in London
YOU CAN BANK ON THE “WALES’*
A5909C
and industries producing plant,
equipment and machinery re-
port a continued increase in the
rate of receipt of new orders.
The anticipated increase in total
expenditure stems from the
many large-scale projects, some
involving new products and
new processes, which have
been announced. Fewer small
projects were reported, how-
ever, and in many industries a
reduction of investment expen-
diture in 1959 seems likely.
Manufacturers in most other
sectors of industry are confi-
dent that activity will be main-
tained or increased during the
remainder of 1959. However,
as in April, 1958, many manu-
facturers of textile and cloth-
ing were less optimistic of their
future prospects.
Better Sugar Profits
HThere has been a transforma-
tion in the Queensland
sugar industry. Following the
most serious drought in the
industry’s history, the sugar
companies are reporting record
profits for the year just ended.
Moreton Central Sugar Mill
Co. —operating at Nambour —
has disclosed a profit of £30,791
for the year ended December
31, 1958, compared with
£22,994 in the previous year.
The profit reported by Gibson
and Howes rose from £74,134
to a record £99,771. Fairy-
mead Sugar also improved last
year’s result with a lift in
profit from a disclosed £9394
to £167,846. Millaquin Sugar
has yet to report.
The industry is at present
investigating the possibility of
introducing large-scale irriga-
tion as an answer to the
problem of seasonal fluctu-
ations. However, prospects for
the 1959 season are equal to
the 1958 season, and indica-
tions are that only sugar up to
the peak quotas will be
required.
Although the 1959 season
may produce a greater tonnage
of cane, whether the mills will
be allowed to crush the crop
will depend on circumstances
associated with overseas
markets for Australian export
sugar.
Unless overseas markets im-
prove and the quota is in-
creased, the sugar-companies
can only hope to increase
profits by economies made
within the mills. Certain of
these economies are at present
being effected by the change-
over from bag- to bulk-
handling.
Prospects in Industry
'T'he April 30 survey by the
Department of Trade was
undertaken during a period
of strengthening confidence
following encouraging reports
of higher export returns and
increased capital-inflow.
It is not surprising, therefore,
that manufacturers expected
conditions to improve during
the remainder of 1959. Of the
total of 1000 manufacturers
visited in the survey, more
than half reported that they
expected business conditions
would improve; a third ex-
pected conditions to remain
stable; and the remainder —
about 15 per cent, of all manu-
facturers and mainly in
industries in which sales and
production had declined or in
which the volume of orders
outstanding appeared low at
that time of the year—thought
sales would decline further.
Manufacturers of plant,
equipment and machinery and
basic materials and components
were confident that business
would expand further, and
building-materials producers
looked forward to a continued
high level of activity, but under
competitive conditions.
There is every prospect,
says the department, that the
forthcoming year (1959-60) will
show continued growth. In-
vestment expenditure is at
record levels, building activity
is high, rural income has
recovered to sdme extent, and
total wage- and salary-earnings
are likely to be higher.
There is, however, consider-
able scope for increased pro-
duction, and conditions should
remain competitive.
A feature of reports during
the recent survey has been
the evidence of increased effi-
ciency and higher output per
employee resulting from high
investment and, in some in-
dustries, fuller use of plant
capacities.
The trend towards lower
costs and prices, reported in
the survey, is heartening evi-
dence that the concentration of
investment in more efficient
machinery and equipment is
now bearing fruit. It is evident,
however, that this trepd has
not yet proceeded to the point
where significant increases in
exports are being achieved. A
continued emphasis on in-
creased efficiency and sustained
effort to develop exports will
be necessary.
Financial Integration—
Good or Bad?
[From the presidential address
by K. J. Hedley, F.F.A., to the
Actuarial Society of Australia.]
"IVTEW financial institutions
' have been created in
Australia, and practices of a
character previously inopera-
tive have been introduced in
recent years.
The development of
merchant-banking, investment-
trusts and hire-purchase com-
panies, the growing public and
private issues of company
interest-bearing notes, and the
further attempt to create a
short-term money-market are
all features indicative of the
increasing financial maturity
of the country.
There may be some differ-
ence of opinion as to whether
these developments are all in
the best interests of Australia
as a whole, but, given the con-
tinued existence of a private-
enterprise type of economy, the
pattern of growth must con-
tinue to be expected to follow
that of overseas Western
economies.
The increasing integration


GENERAL MOTORS
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability )
m
With principal and interest unconditionally guaranteed
by General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York
per annum
per annum
... 3 YEARS
6 and 10 YEARS
£lOO or any multiple thereof may be invested in any or all of the currencies—
-3 years, 6 years, 10 years. GMAC, Australia has the right to repay earlier.
Conditions ot repayment, including premiums, are set out in the prospectus.
Applications for Loan Stock can be accepted only on the printed form attached to
the prospectus. Copies offull prospectus with application form obtainable from:
CAPITAL CITY OFFICES OF
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION AUSTRALIA
Underwritten by the •
ANGLO AUSTRALIAN CORPORATION Ply. Ltd..
Melbourne, Sydney.
Brokers to the Issue
lAN POTTER & CO.
Melbourne ; Sydney , Canberra.
D 260
Position Vacant.
Wanted, for the "Wild Cat
Column” of The Bulletin, a young
accountant (20-35), intermediate
standard or better,, with an interest
in writing.
The work is interesting and the
prospects are excellent. The “Wild
Cat Column” is the best training-
ground in Australia for the finan-
cial journalist, and the scope for
the investment specialist is growing
every year.
Apply, "Economist,” Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney.
around the whole or part of
the circle of banking-hire-
purchase - general - insurance -
-life - insurance - trusteeship-
banking has been the most
pronounced feature of the
changes occurring in Australia.
Is this integration a good or
bad thing? What particular
developments in the economy
have given such emphasis in
recent years to the movement
towards this financial integra-
tion? Why has the long-
established feeling and practice
that these various fields were
quite distinct (and that institu-
tions should confine their acti-
vities to their own particular
field) been suddenly aban-
doned with such force?
It is noteworthy that with
these changes a number of our
member-actuaries have joined
new financial institutions.
Overseas discussions of the
increasing scope of actuaries
and the actual broadening of
the range of their occupations
had little effect here for many
years ; but has the picture now
changed?
If so, has this been due to
the increasing complexity of
individual forms of investment,
to the preoccupation with
inflation and need or desire on
the part of many institutions to
invest in equities in a limited
market, or to the growing
maturity of the community’s
financial structure?
Whatever the reason may be,
the result is important to the
actuarial profession, and more
than ever it must study and
discuss investment problems.
Results of Integration /
This process of integration
has led some actuaries asso-
ciated with life-offices to widen
their interests. The increasing
relationship between life- and
general-insurance is of particu-
lar importance. Although the
composite office has been nor-
mal in Great Britain for a
very long period, in both North
America and Australia insur-
ance tended to be handled by
specialised institutions.
In both continents rapid
integration into groups is now
taking place. Why is this so
at this particular point of
time? Why has a division of
interests, accepted for nearly
a hundred years, been so
rapidly abandoned in these two
continents?
Integration of financial insti-
tutions of diverse types has its
disadvantages. Even though
their fields may differ, they
were in competition to some
extent —e.g., life-offices and
investment-trusts. The develop-
ment of large groups of com-
panies does not eliminate
competition, but competition
between a small number of
such groups is unlikely to be
as effective from a community
point of view as that of a large
number of independent com-
panies of differing character.
Often a major reason for
integration has been the belief
that the next field is greener,
that easy profits are waiting to
be picked-up. This has cer-
tainly been so in so far as bank-
ing extension into hire-
purchase, and life-insurance
extension into fire-insurance,
have been concerned; but
whatever financial results may
be published, a thorough
assessment after a few years
may disclose serious hidden
costs —if not of a financial,
then of a public-relations,
nature.
“Conditional Lending’ ’
More important still is the
increasing tendency engend-
ered towards the association
of contracts in a way that has,
in one particular application
in a limited area, been called
“conditional lending.” A life-
insurance company may pro-
perly make it a condition of
the grant of a loan on mort-
gage that the borrower effects
a life-insurance policy on the
breadwinner or on a key
employee or working-principal
as collateral security ; but the
process has often been carried
further with a forced effecting
of life-insurances that have no
real need in relation to the
particular loan transaction.
It is very difficult to draw a
line between what is reasonable
business practice and what is
undesirable ethicaly or from a
community point of view, but
it seems that the problem in a
wider sense is a growing one.
Abuse will inevitably result
in restrictive legislation, and
indeed there is already an
example of this as between
hire-purchase and general-
insurance companies.
Increasing integration of
different types of institutions
will widen the scope for
arrangements whereby the
business of one member of a
group will give opportunity for
business, either unnecessary or
overcharged, to be forced
towards other members of the
same group.
The present opportunities
may be largely temporary
because of the shortage of
funds available for investment
as compared with the current
demand, but actuaries could be
faced with difficult ethical
problems during this present
period.


Wellington College, 1859-1959
By "LIGHT BOB"
“And now farewell... .For fifteen
years 1 have labored, often in most
salutary trouble, yet with ever-
increasing happiness I have seen
near a thousand men go away to
labor in their turn, where and as
duty summoned and God ordained.”
"p dward White Benson—
Wellington College’s first
master, later Archbishop of
Canterbury—said these words
in 1873 during his last sermon,
when he left the school in
Berkshire (Eng.) to take-up
ecclesiastic preferment. It was
he who had caused to be carved
over the archway through
which he passed each morn-
ing into college to begin his
day’s work: “The Path of
Duty Is the Way to Glory.”
I remember smiling to my-
self, as I hurried along the
cloister, at the Victorian
sententiousness of Tennyson’s
words —they sounded out of
place and in slightly question-
able taste during the gay
19205, when Oxford “bags”
and. the black-bottom were the
rage, and thought had been
numbed by the holocaust of
the first war.
But the idea Benson meant
to convey must have taken
root, because cold figures prove
that of the 10,700 boys who
passed through Wellington
College between 1859 'and
1948, 1300 died for their
country in all campaigns—so
that we were more than deci-
mated —and 15 won the Vic-
toria Cross (which, with the
Garter, we were taught to con-
sider the only honor worth
seeking). This is not surpris-
ing in a Royal Foundation
established to honor the
memory of Arthur Wellesley,
first Duke of Wellington,
Epitome of the British regi-
mental officer though, if
truth be told, he fought as
such only in the Netherlands
and in his early days in India
—he brought the characteristics
of that breed into everything
he thought or did, and left
his terse comments on war and
men as a model for those who
came after him.
Here in his greatest and most
lasting memorial the spirit of
Arthur Wellesley lives on,
dominating all, as the founders
intended it should—not as a
half - forgotten or vaguely
remembered presence, but as
a vital, dynamic influence. So
that a “new man,” arriving to
find all around him statues and
portraits of the Duke and his
generals, and seeing, wherever
he looks, the ducal cipher or
heraldic bearings, cannot fail
to catch from the start of his
first day at college the inspira-
tion of that soldier.
What is extraordinary is that
this school, originally financed
by public subscription as a
living memorial to the dead, to
provide for orphan-sons of
Army officers, should have
escaped becoming a sort of
junior military academy—as
the second Duke of Welling-
ton put it, “where scrubby
little orphans could be main-
tained and educated, like the
Bluecoat School in London.”
Whatever may have been
the plans of the Prince Con-
sort, prime mover in the foun-
dation of Wellington College
—he died in 1863, before his
ideas could show any signifi-
cant pattern, beyond the aim of
establishing the college in the
shape of his educational ideal
—whatever may have been the
obscurities of the original
charter, such an outcome was
not the intention of Benson,
who opened the • school in
1859.
In conjunction with the 14th
Earl of Derby, England’s
Prime Minister of the day and
Prince Albert’s successor as
president of the governing
body, Benson set about shaping
the education of his charges on
predetermined lines. To the
foundation of 60 sons of de-
ceased officers and the non-
foundationers—sons of living
officers and civilians —he intro-
duced new blood by founding
open entrance-scholarships ; he
also raised the educational
standards of the entrance-
examination for foundationers
and the rest, and sought to
attract more boys to the
school, with the specific aim
of increasing the civilian
element.
He recognised that boys
who came from military homes
could not gain full benefit from
the college unless they had
contact with those drawn from
a different background. In
England, during the 19th cen-
tury, this was an important
consideration, because the
military families kept very
much within their own circle
and tended always to follow
their hereditary calling.
Benson tried, by increasing
the number of civilians’ sons,
to widen the scope of boys’
ambition and so give a more
comprehensive character to the
system of education he aimed
to establish.
That was the start of
Wellington College. Benson’s
rrtodel was Rugby; Wickham,
who followed him, tried to
graft on to this the classical
tradition of Winchester. But
neither of these first two
masters —or, for that matter,
any who followed them —
was able to overcome the
military influence that attracted
the majority of boys who
passed through the school.
What they could do, however,
was to guide this bias, by
imaginative handling, away
from the sterility of outlook
of a Kadettenanstalt.
In that they succeeded. The
men they produced never
crystallised into a definite type
—so that you could say, hav-
ing met them for a very brief
time: “That man comes from
Wellington,” in the same way
that an Englishman can almost
invariably pick out an Etonian
or a Wykehamist or, to a lesser
degree, a Rugbeian.
But the school has fulfilled
the aim Prince Albert handed
on to Benson: “to educate for
after-life.” Wellington has
not yet produced a Prime
Minister and has, so far, only
raised one bishop ; but it has
exerted a force on the world
because it has never lost con-
tact with the practical truth
that mankind’s daily admini-
stration makes a need for
imaginative leadership. “They
make good cavalry-officers,”
said the Army about Welling-
tonians after the South African
War ; “Better in the Foot and
Guns,” they said on Gallipoli
and in Flanders.
Wellingtonian honors are
predominantly military, as be-
fits the school’s foundation. In
this centenary-year, when the
college must give an account
of its stewardship, it is natural
to find the names of lan
Hamilton, Claude Auchinleck
and Gerald Templer among the
sons of great soldiers like
Evelyn Wood and the Earl of
Ypres, and Havelocks, Pagets,
Troubridges, Layards, Cham-
pion de Crespignys and Welles-
leys. But from this school,
where the dormitories are
named after Wellingtonian
generals—Murray, Hopetoun,
Orange, Hill, Lynedoch,
Hardinge, etc. —have come
others, too, who have made
the world richer for what they
learned within the red-brick
(Continued on page 45)
“A flat tyre, sir!”


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THETRE
MUSIC
ART
Stags and Music
Sydney Orchestra in
Brisbane
At long last the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra has
played in Brisbane, and in so
doing has provided the first
real “event” of the Centenary
Year. The visit also had the
useful result of sparking-off a
first-class controversy over the
amount of contemporary music
that should be on a concert
programme, and the old
battle of the ancients and
moderns has been going on
entertainingly ever since.
The Sydney Orchestra was
a reminder that a centenary
is a time for revaluation as
well as for general satisfaction
that so much has happened in
the past century. Local musi-
cal standards were given a
dash of cold water —in the
same way that the touring
Czech Philharmonic Orchestra
will probably jolt Sydney some
months- hence.
Nicolai Malko showed-off
his orchestra in a very search-
ing programme. The sureness
of the solo leaders, and the
particular sheen of the string
sections made the main sub-
scription-concert an exciting
event. The visual effect of the
orchestra spilling almost over
the edges of the big, stage was
welcome, and it was a par-
ticular pleasure to hear a
really audible bass section
making a solid foundation of
tone throughout the pro-
gramme.
Beethoven’s Third Leonora
has long been a Sydney dis-
play-piece, and here it was
notable for the superbly con-
trolled entries of strings tear-
ing away into the final pages
of Beethoven’s great hymn to
freedom.
More Beethoven came in
the shape of the Fugue from
the Third Rasoumovsky
Quartet, arranged by Dr.
Malko. It is not strictly ethical
to enlarge Beethoven’s quartets,
but several famous conductors
have tried it with interesting
results. The main gain is a
certain smoothness of tone
instead of the scraping sound
that is often heard when four
instruments wrestle with
Beethoven’s difficult music.
The special fascination here
was the way in which Malko
began by using the simple
quartet, and then distributed
the parts of the fugue among
the strings grouped in varying
numbers. This gave a subtle
emphasis to the fugue tune as
it vanished in and out of the
maze of sound. The music was
certainly illuminated, and, if
one would not want to hear
it this way too often, the
effect of so many players
sounding as one was a small
miracle to the eye as to the
ear.
A prize-winning Centenary
Overture by Margaret Suther-
land was disappointingly under*
developed. It had too much
of the stodginess of the aver-
“I don't know—it must've been something I ate!"
age prize-poem to be interest-
ing, and the orchestra seemed
to find little in it to illuminate.
lan Wilson was soloist in
the Strauss Oboe Concerto, a
lovely piece for an instrument
that is hardly capable of
enough expressive variety of
tone to be continuously
interesting for 25 minutes. Mr.
Wilson was, however, a star
player very much worth hear-
ing in this, and later in the
way he handled the drunken
lurching of the melody tossed
around in the second move-
ment of the symphony.
This was the Fifth of Shosta-
kovich. Having shown-off his
players in sections, Malko had
them together in this spectacu-
lar music, and incidentally
revealed himself as one of the
best living masters of Russian
music.
It is an easy symphony to
listen to, meandering at times,
but with sufficient landmarks
to make it hard to get lost in.
Here and there one hears the
rattle of a passing military
band or the kind of searing
string-phrase that the films
have since borrowed for back-
ground music. It is all very
entertaining and, in the vast
elegy of the slow movement,
quite shattering. This was a
big orchestra showing its
paces, and it left an appetite
for more.
A return-trip should be an
annual event, with the
orchestra playing music that
the Queensland players cannot
cope with because they are
smaller in numbers. In a city
of half-a-million that has not
yet heard a real Wagner
orchestra or the genuine roar
of Debussy’s sea, this would be
a rare and welcome delight.
D.J.M.
♦+♦ *J4
French Farce
The proper province of
farce is to mix people up in
bedrooms ; and when M. Boni-
face takes. Mme. Cot for the
night to the dingy Hotel Para-
diso, in Georges Feydeau’s
farce of that name at Sydney
Independent, the mixture is
generous and hilarious.
M. Cot, the purple husband,
is there because he is an
architect and has to decide
whether strange noises-in-the-
night are drains or ghosts. M.
Cot’s nephew is there because
M. Boniface’s maidservant
thinks he should not learn
about passion exclusively from
textbooks. M. Boniface’s
friend from the seaside, a
barrister, is there with his four
squealing daughters.
And finally, when M. Cot,
purple to bursting-point, has
burst-in upon the privacy of
his wife and M. Boniface be-
cause he thinks the four
squealing daughters in their
nightdresses are ghosts, and
when Boniface, hastily disguis-
ing himself as a chimney-
sweep, has courageously hit
him in the eye, while Mme.
Cot is hiding in his top-hat,
the police are there.
It makes a violently funny
Act 2, and on the freezing
opening-night it was good to
hear the old Independent
rocking with laughter. The
third act, which you would
expect to be merely a tapering-
off, is unexpectedly amusing
because Boniface and Mme.
Cot, each having given the
wrong name to the police, are
able to accuse their innocent
spouses of having sinned at
the Paradiso. Essentially it is
a thoroughly respectable
comedy of the Little Man
going off the rails, and the
only reason for calling it a
farce is that he does it so
uproariously.
Barrett Fleming’s produc-
tion has some ragged edges.
Edward Hepple, as Boniface,
gets off on the wrong foot, so
to speak, by singing his little
song about the spring - in a
false, strained, tuneless, self-
consciously “funny” voice—
instead of just singing it, as
Boniface would, as well as he
can —and thereafter, though
always amiable, he is fully
effective only in the second
act when he is too busy to be
self-conscious; and there are
a truly terrible Turk and a
duke and his actress who ought
to be something and aren’t.
But on the whole it is
played with great gusto and
goodwill by, chiefly, Marcel
Wattel, Fleming, Sheila Ken-
nelly, Irene Alexander, Janice
Copland, Ken Hacker and
Joseph Holt.
❖ ❖ <£♦
National Youth Orchestra
Under the aegis of the
British Motor Corporation,
this revived assembly of
promising young musicians, at
their first concert at Sydney
Con. under the conductorship
of Gordon Day, ranged over
a programme which, while
putting them through a rea-
sonable test as to tone and
balance, nowhere got them lost
or subjected them to the pres-
sures of depth.
They showed-up best —and
quite a good best —in Haydn’s
Serenade in C, the stately,
unhurried passages giving the
muted upper strings time to
produce a really fine tone
against the pizzicato accom-
paniment of the other four
string choirs.
In a suite drawn from “La
Traviata” the work from some


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OE NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO BARBARA MERLE SMART late of
10 Albermarle Street Newtown. —TAKE
NOTICE that vour husband CYRIL
YANET SMART has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 224 of 1959 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and if you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 24th August 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. H. M. SYMONDS
& BRITTEN, Solicitors, 78 Macquarie
Street, Parramatta. —J. DOUGIHAN,
Registrar.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
of the principal desks reached
almost to professional levels,
notably that of the clarinettist
in Violetta’s “Ah! Fors e
Lui” and the trombonist in
Germont’s big song, “Di
Provenza.” Here and else-
where the orchestra showed
itself amenable to discipline in
the clean rounding-off of big
climaxes. But too often the
main body of strings would,
under pressure of stepped-up
tempo, allow its tone to de-
teriorate, as in the concluding
crescendos of Tchaikowsky’s
“Capriccio Italien” and the
more bustling passages of
Offenbach’s “Orpheus in
Hades” (though the rhythmi-
cal cadences of the can-can
theme were well shaped).
Liszt’s symphonic poem
“Les Preludes” suffered from
a too-casual approach to its
poetic content, and, from the
purely technical side, insuffi-
cient preparation, with a con-
sequent thinning of tonal color.
In the first movement of
Grieg’s Piano Concerto the
soloist, Rosemary May, made
an excellent showing, the
crashing chords of the left
hand giving full emphasis to
the dramatic argument. Scale-
passages, trills and other
filigree-work were clean and
crisp, and in the extended
cadenza there was careful
phrasing, marred only by a
few “blue” notes. But at times
Miss May was forced to
struggle hard against orches-
tral forces of far too much
weight.
*:< ♦> *z*
Melbourne Music
Wondering where its next
adjective is to come from, The
Bulletin has been rushing up
and down the steps of the
Town Hall, Melbourne, in a
desperate endeavor to keep
track of the musical marathon
which began with the onset of
winter.
One of the most outstanding
events was tucked away on a
Saturday afternoon, with the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra
in attendance, Constantin Sil-
vestri on the rostrum, Ingrid
Haebler at the piano and an
extraordinarily appreciative
audience, whose approval of
the Rumanian conductor at the
conclusion of the fourth sym-
phony of Dvorak was almost
deafening. He got the earthy
quality of the music to perfec-
tion.
Silvestri was in lighter vein
for the second of the 1959
youth-concerts. An evanescent
overture by Rawsthorne was
followed by the “Birds” suite
of Respighi, which sounded
like a cageful of budgerigars
in ecstasy. William Herbert,
the Melbourne tenor, put in an
appearance in Vaughan
Williams’s lovely song-cycle
“On Wenlock Edge,” of which
the soloist has made a special
study.
It is some years since Dr.
Floyd, sitting in the Town Hall,
said to the present com-
mentator: “Watch this young
man —he is the most under-
standing singer Australia has
yet produced.” This may have
been a subjective judgment on
the part of the doctor, who was
Herbert’s master when he sang
as a choirboy at St. Paul’s
Cathedral; but, anyway,
Herbert has brilliantly fulfilled
the prediction of his teacher.
The Vienna Boys’ Choir,
founded by the Emperor Maxi-
milian I of Austria in 1498,
is so hallowed by tradition that
it would be as superfluous to
describe it as to say something
new about Notre Dame or the
Sistine Chapel. Mozart was a
member of it, Schubert and
Haydn were associated with it,
and Toscanini said it was the
world’s best boys’ choir; so
who is the present writer to
say it isn’t? His memory of it
only goes back to its last Aus-
tralian visit, and no doubt it
wasn’t the same crowd as it is
now, though it looked the same,
sang as sweetly and gazed as
fondly at its new conductor,
Xaver Meyer. Its only observ-
able innovation was a render-
ing of “Waltzing Matilda,”
which sounded as sacerdotal
as the “O Sacrum Convivium”
of Jacobus Gallus (1550-1591).
Artbursts
Charles Bannon
Charles Bannon, a young
South Australian artist hold-
ing a one-man exhibition at
Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries,
Sydney, has quite a lot of
drawings and paintings which
would look both pleasing and
striking if they were selected
and, so to speak, condensed,
in a smaller gallery.
He is said to have done all
the work for the show in five
weeks, and nobody, however
taken by inspiration, can turn
out such a mass of work so
quickly and have it all of his
highest standard. Conse-
quently his biggest oils, except
for a “Landscape” (not in the
catalogue) which has some
weight in the fallen white
stump and a nice suggestion
of massive hills in the back-
ground, look empty; and, as
most of the critics have noted,
he is repetitive, painting dozens
of variations on the one theme
of spiky twigs and trees and
plants with a few spiky yachts
or feluccas thrown-in for good
measure.
But take the best of the
gouaches—such as '“Screaming
Gulls,” “Swamp Plants,”
“Whipstick Pines” —and almost
all the drawings, and these,
with their clear, clean color and
precision of drawing, are very
pleasant spikes indeed: like a
curious blending of Chinese
art with the spikier varieties of
abstraction.
♦> ♦>
National Gallery
Two interesting little special
exhibitions at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery are 10 paint-
ings and 13 prints by Margaret
Preston (from the Gallery’s
collection) and 17 Ethiopian
paintings by Balatchaw Damar
which were presented by
George Sandwith in 1956 and
exhibited at that time.
Exhibitions so strangely con-
trasting at least prove that the
Gallery is broadminded ; and
the Ethiopian panels, bright to
the point of garishness and
swarming with lions, Ethio-
pians and explorers, have a
certain naive charm ; but the
real artistic interest is in the
Margaret Preston paintings.
Ranging from delicate early
flowerpieces to the later color-
ful assemblages of Australian
wildflowers in arrangements
suggesting aboriginal influence,
they prove that to make a
vigorous and highly indi-
vidual statement you don’t
have to depart from Nature,
but only need to have a fresh
approach to it.
♦l* +J*
Vale Yarra
Now that the Yarra valley
is fast disappearing under a
sea of suburban houses whose
flat monotony is only relieved
by factory chimneys, every-
body should be grateful to any
artist who tries to preserve at
least a memory of its former
beauty in a pictorial record.
Even an abstraction can do
this if the author has spent
some time contemplating the
lovely river’s curves and con-
volutions, the shimmering
reflections of the weeping-
willows in its rapids, the golden
blaze of the wattles in their
season, and those pillars of
gold the Lombardy poplars
in the autumn.
Streeton attempted it on the
grand scale ; dozens of others
in small impressions. The late
Miss Sweatman painted prac-
tically nothing else, and the
facts are all there in her paint-
ings ; but her academic train-
ing stood between her and
seeing deeper. Max Meldrum
could have done it, but he
doesn’t seem to have bothered
much about it.
Now Len Annois comes with
an exhibition (Athenaeum)
of watercolors and litnos
entitled “The Yarra Valley
from Stud ley Park to Temple-
stowe”—a fair stretch of the
winding river. It includes Ban-
yule, Heidelberg, Ivanhoe and
the marvellous Bulleen Flats.
One picture is called
“Streeton’s Pitch, East from
Eaglemont.” This view is
familiar to the present writer,
he having surveyed it daily
from his bedroom window for
10 years; so he went round
looking for the picture, but
couldn’t find it. This doesn’t
prove anything, of course. If
the artist saw only what the
man-in-the-street sees he
wouldn’t be an artist; and if
the man-in-the-street said, “I


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
sf
gs
A
SecU
dfg
Long Term
sdfg
Short Term
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly
income, free of exchange.
For full details see Prospectus;
your copy available from all
Members of Stock Exchanges,
the 703 branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited & I.A.C. Branches.
ASSETS EXCEED £60,000,009
PAID UP CAPITAL £10,000,009
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
sdf
(Established 29 Years )
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co.
Melbourne, Canberra
and Sydney
DII6N
don’t see it that way, Mr.
Annois,” Mr. Annois might
retort, like Whistler, “Don’t
you wish you could?”
Films
“Bloom in Hell”
In defiance of Kipling, the
twain come pretty close to
meeting in this Japanese film
in which ferocity is a virtue
and honor, loyalty, vengeance
and devotion are so inextric-
ably mixed that if the samurai
were dressed in cowboy suits
and their women in Texan
costumes the picture would
pass for a first-class western.
The girl who bites off the
tongue of the handit who tries
to rape her does so in defence
of her honor, but her reward
is to be bound to a horse and
sent packing by her big-chief
lover when he discovers she is
pregnant. The young man who
saves her for the baby’s sake
is rewarded by another terrific
dose of the big chief’s hatred,
and when the big chief chases
the pair with a fleet of pirates
as ferocious as himself the only
thing they can think to do - is to
leave the baby in their boat,
tie themselves up with rope and
jump into the lake.
But when the baby is placed
in the big chief’s arms he shows
a surprisingly tender heart
beneath his iron bosom, has
the guilty pair rescued from
the bottom of the lake, where
they have been resting for at
least 10 minutes, and allows
them to sail off, reunited to the
baby and none the worse for
their dipping.
There is a world of difference
between this film and “Inter-
mezzo,” revived on the same
programme, in which self-
sacrifice and resignation are
virtues. All the people in
“Intermezzo” are nice, kindly,
gentle and timid; but when
the girl (Ingrid Bergman)
deserts music for her handsome
lover (Leslie Howard), who has
deserted his wife and child
for her, she sets off a train of
consequences ending in misery
and despair for all concerned.
They could not have done more
harm with their tenderness and
consideration than the people
in the Japanese film did with
their ruthlessness and ferocity.
At the Australia, Melbourne.
♦j* ♦♦♦
“The Defiant Ones”
Stanley Kramer, producer
and director of this escape-
story of two convicts chased
by a posse with dogs across
Deep - South swamp - lands,
keeps tensions at full pressure
throughout and builds some
clinking dramatic climaxes.
Chained together, the two men
—one a negro, the other a
white —start-off by hating each
other ; but through the Suffer-
ings shared before they are
finally recaptured they come to
view one another with deep
sympathy. Kramer uses the
brief recovery-periods between
exhausting escape-efforts to
allow each man to propound a
philosophy of life culled from
past bitter experiences, and
these fit very well into the
general movement.
Kramer has contrived many
striking situations, but none
more tense than when the pair,
in torrential rain, jump into a
deep hole to avoid detection,
and then have to claw their
way back up the slippery clay
sides; and when, later, a
lynching-party itches to get to
work on them.
Sidney Poitier is the negro
and Tony Curtis his fellow-
captive, both completely con-
vincing.
At Sydney Embassy.
A A A
V V V
“The Black Orchid”
A rather thin tale about the
widow of a gangster who holds-
out against a masterful
widower until he gets on-side
with her through her delin-
quent son. There is a heavy
coating of sentimentality, but
the setting—among Italian
migrants—rings true enough,
and Anthony Quinn, as the
genial widower, gives his usual
sound performance. Sophia
Loren makes-up the number.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
, ♦> «£
“Imitation of Life”
An aptly named backstage
melodrama with Lana Turner
whimsically cast as a brilliant
actress. Situations and dialogue
are artificial, and there is even
a good old deathbed scene,
with Lana shrieking and exud-
ing a flood of glycerine tears.
At Sydney Lyceum.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Wunderlich, Ltd.
HPhe improved rate of homebuilding
evident throughout most of Australia
last year was more than maintained in
the first quarter of 1959, preliminary
figures from the Commonwealth
Statistician putting the number of new
houses and flats commenced during the
quarter at 20,346, or 2460 above the
corresponding figure for 1958, with com-
pletions over the period 1455 higher
at 19,082.
Coupled with a generally high level
of activity on the commercial-building
front, this trend augurs well for the
successful Wunderlich, Ltd., which last
term lived-up to its solid investment-
reputation by notching new records for
both turnover and earnings.
Founded in 1887 by the Wunderlich
brothers, the organisation graduated to
corporate status in 1908 and now ranks
as Australia’s largest manufacturer of
terra-cotta roofing-tiles and a leading
producer of architectural and industrial
metalwork (its original,line of business)
and asbestos-cement products.
Manufacture and distribution, includ-
ing the laying of roof-tiles, etc., are
carried out in all States except W.A., and
there is a worthwhile export-trade with
New Guinea and the South Pacific islands.
Output from the 18 Wunderlich tileries
and factories covers such things as metal
ceilings, fascias and grilles, aluminium
curtain - walling and window - frames,
stainless-steel sinks, roofing-tiles, asbestos-
cement sheets and mouldings, ceramic
facings, stoneware pipes and numerous
allied lines, recent additions to the range
including domestic window - frames in
aluminium and a range of vertically-
grooved asbestos-cement sheeting.
The co.’s Westralian interests were
merged with those of H. L. Brisbane and
Co. in 1938 to form H. L. Brisbane and
Wunderlich, Ltd., in which Wunderlich,
Ltd., remains a substantial shareholder.
The Westralian co. has paid a steady
\2\ p.c. div. in each of the last six years.
Earnings leapt ahead with the revival
of private building-activity after the
1939-45 war, the co. taking advantage
of the situation to reinvest a large pro-
portion of its profits in the new plant
and premises needed for a greatly-
expanded output and the introduction of
new products.
Shareholders made more direct contri-
butions to the expansion-programme
through a one-for-four issue in 1949 and
a one-for-two offering in 1956 (both
issues carrying a 50 p.c. premium), further
funds coming from a £500,000 mortgage-
loan arranged with the A.M.P. Society
in 1951. Bonus-scrip was handed-out
(one-for-two) in 1955, following aypartial
revaluation of freeholds, the issue of
93,475 £1 ords. as consideration under
building-contracts taking ord. capital to
£1,325,648 by the end of last term.
To an unblemished div.-record, the co.
added another 124 p.c. payout from last
year’£ earnings, the div.-rate dropping
from 15 p.c. to 124 p.c. after the bonus-
issue.
Demand for building-materials tended
to strengthen over the year to February
28 last, and, while stiff competition forced
the absorption of “substantial cost-
increases,” it failed to halt the steady
upward climb of turnover. An 8 p.c.
gain in sales took much of the sting out
of the increase in costs and although non-
disclosure of the tax-provision and the
rather bald statement of net profit con-
ceal the actual extent of this offset, the
board, after providing an extra £2438
(£248,518) for depreciation, was able to
write net earnings at £270,750, or £18,039
above the 1958 figure and almost £12,000
higher than the previous (1955) peak:
f — Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb.. Profit. 7 p.c. t —Ordinary serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
To staff partners, £25,500 .. .. 443,05 H
From inner reserves and profit sale
assets, £81,684 .-. 524,778
’54..212,227 11,200 'PS p.c.= 82,144 118,883 643,661
Asset revaluation reserve, £273,816 .. 917,477
’55 v 258,919 11,200 15 p.c.= 82,145 105,574 1,083,051
Reserves capitalised, £2/3,816 .. 809,235
’56..201,569 11,200 125p.c.=102,803 87,566 896,801
~ Share premiums, £136,908 .. .. 1,033,709
Profit sale shares, £109,375 . . • ■ 1,143,084
’57..240,198 11,200 12 tp.c.=134,826 94,172 1,237,256
Share-premiums, £68,454 . . . . 1,305,710
’58..252,711 11,200 124p.c.=165,369 76,142 1,381,852
’59..270,750 11,200 12ip-c.=105,706 93,844 1,475,696
* After deducting goodwill (£73,888 at 29/2/’59).
Pref. shareholders collected their usual
£11,200, the balance of the profit repre-
senting a return of 19.5 p.c. on ord.
capital? compared with 18.3, 19.6 and
23.2 p.c. back to 1956.
The £93,844 reinvested in the business
pushed reserves (subject to £73,888 of
intangibles) £63,936 past share-capital,
the balance-sheet disclosing a sound and
comfortable financial structure:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Ord 1,152,690 1,320,248 1,325,648
Calls in advance. . 86,300
Resex'ves .. .. 1,311,144 1,455,740 1,549,584
Mortgage . . .. 526,400 526,400 515,200
Overdraft . . .. 52,804 53,064 50,184
Creditors, etc. .. 1,110,632 1,147,793 1,129,584
Final divs. .. 77,909 88,453 88,453
£4,477,879 £4,751,698 £4,818,653
Freeholds .. 926,145 1,028,692 1,074,271
Plant, etc. .. 1,012,465 1,061,066 1,088,275
Shares, etc. .. 142,406 142,406 142,459
Stocks .. .. 1,456,228 1,599,454 1,606,462
Debtors .. .. 581,516 658,586 744,089
Cash, bonds .. 285,231 187,606 88,609
Intangibles .. 73,888 73,888 73,888
£4,477,879 £4,751,698 £4,818,653
Over £320,000 was spent on plant and
premises during the year (part of it on
a new office-block, showroom and store
in Adelaide) the generous depreciation
provision leaving the net addition to
book-values at £72,788. Stock remained
more-or-less static at £1,606,462 and
there was no call for additional outside
money, the co. looking to cash holdings
(down £98,997) and retained earnings to
cover the capital-outlay, a big (£86,103)
jump in book-debts and small reductions
in deferred and current liabilities (down
£11,200 and £21,089 respectively).
Orders came in at a satisfactory rate
in the first two months of the current
term, and it seems probable that costs
will prove more of a problem than sales
over the balance of what promises to
be another successful year.
The continuing emphasis on sound
equities lifted bids for Wunderlich’s £1
ords. to 625. earlier this year, the scrip,
backed by an alert management and
425. 3d. in net tangibles, selling last week
at 575. 6d. to yield £4 6s. lid. p.c. from a
p.c. div.
South Australian Brewing Co., Ltd.
recovered from early effects of
■*- the 1956 excise-slug, beer-consump-
tion has, nevertheless, tended to level-out
somewhat over the past year, the great
Australian thirst reacting, apparently, to
smaller rural and mining incomes, hire-
purchase commitments and patches of
unemployment in coal and base-metal
areas.
However, judging from the latest
accounts of South Australian Brewing
Co., a slip last term in the output of this
old-established brewer will hardly cause
concern among its sharemarket sup-
porters, the extensive modernisation and
reorganisation of brewery production-
procedures, completed in the preceding
term, helping td push net earnings for
the year to an all-time high.
S.A. Brewing serves its home-State and
the mining-centre of Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
from South Australia’s two largest
breweries, Southwark and West End, the
recent reorganisation concentrating
draught-beer production at West End
while Southwark busies itself with the
bottled variety. The West End brewery,
incidentally, claims to have the most
modern brewhouse in the Southern
Hemisphere.
The great post-war leap in beer-
consumption has called for a heavy out-
lay on new brewery-plant and -premises,
and, with an expanding population, on
the renovation and extension of the co.’s
big string of hotel properties, a part,
only, of this expenditure being reflected
by the more than £2-million jump in
fixed-asset book-values (after allowing
for revaluation) since 1950.
Growth on this scale has provided
shareholders with ample opportunity for
enlarging their holdings, but benefits have
not ended there, par issues in 1950 (one-
for-two), 1953 (one-for-three) and 1955
(one-for-four) preceding a three-for-five
bonus-handout in 1955. Small issues to
employees have since raised the all-ord.
paid capital to £2,940,278.
Steady at 10 p.c. for the 18 years up
to and including 1955, the div.-rate was
dropped to p.c. following the bonus-
issue, the 10 p.c. rate being restored last
term after an 8j p.c. payout in 1958.
Enjoying economies arising from new
plant and production arrangements, the


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhllls.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street
Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax" Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
co. added £55,887 to its gross earnings
and investment income (£1,206,253) over
the year to February 28 last, after pro-
viding an unstated something for plant-
depreciation, a £27,364 increase in sell-
ing and administration expenses (includ-
ing an undisclosed tax-provision) clipping
the gain in net earnings back to
£28,523:
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. , —Dividends— ■, serves. rerves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 92,270 10 „ „ 72,208 20,062 465,627
Inner reserves disclosed. £194,681 .. 660,308
1951. .133,387 10 p.c. = 108,312 25,075 685,383
1952. .127,944 10 ~ ~108,312 19,632 705,015
To staff fund, £it),B9s .. .. 694,120
1953. .147,422 10 p.c. = 108,312 39,110 733,230
To staff fund, £IO,OOO . . . . 723,230
1954. .180,945 10 p.c. = 144,941 36,004 759,234
1955. .204,649 10 „ ~146,944 57,705 816,939
Added reserves, £1,416,618 .. .. 2,233,557
Reserves capitalised, £1,083,120 .. 1,150,437
1956. .256,390 74 p.c. = 219,774 36,616 1,187,053
1957. .244,638 74 ~ „ 220,025 24,613 1,211,666
1958. .285,490 B'i ~ ~257,254 28,236 1,239,902
1959. 10 „ ~ 294,028 19,985 1,259,887
Covering div. - requirements with
£19,985 to spare, the £314,013 claimed
as net profit was equal to 10.6 p.c. on
share-capital as against 9.6, 8.3 and 8.7
p.c. back to 1956.
Since war-time controls were lifted,
S.A. Brewing has spent over £1,250,000
on its hotel-chain, but, according to
chairman R. E. Jacobs, Adelaide is “not
happily situated for attracting a big
floating-population,” and the board isn’t
anxious to undertake erection of a large
multi-storied residential hotel in the city,
and then face the task of leasing it.
However, the co. would be prepared to
assist in financing such a project.
Improvements and additions to a
number of hotel properties were carried-
out last term and with expenditure on
breweries added a net £150,510 to the
book-value of fixed assets. Freeholds
were revalued in 1955:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital . . £2,938,545 £2,940,278 £2,940,273
Reserves .. .. 1,211,666 1,239,902 1,259,887
Deposits . . .. 150,000
Overdraft .. .. 75,897
Creditors, etc.* .. 795,959 815,499 919,004
Staff fund ~. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Final div. .. 110,138 147,014 147,014
£5,307,205 £5,167,693 £5,291,183
Freeholds .. 2,898,561 2,672,070 2,755,540
.Plant, etc. . . 1,308,906 1,332,425 1,399,465
Shares subsid. .. 17,000 17,000 17,000
Shares other cos... 24,465 24,465 24,465
Stocks . . A. 534,632 438,247 403,831
Debtors . . . . 478,030 559,023 526,035
Advances, etc. .. 45,136 64,121 113,064
Cash .. .. 475 60,342 51,783
£5,307,205 £5,167,693 £5,291,183
* Includes tax provision, etc.
Funds released by reductions in stock
(down £34,416), debtors (down £32,988)
and cash (down £8559) helped meet the
capital-outlay and a £48,943 increase in
advances. Creditors, etc., provided a
further £103,505, but it would be diffi-
cult to detail the actual outside debt, the
provision for taxation and possibly other,
unspecified, provisions (going on the size
of the item) being lumped together with
trqde creditors and accrued liabilities in
the published accounts.
In any event, the balance-sheet could
comfortably carry some fixed-interest
money should the co. wish to strengthen
working-capital, and, while the ss. ords.
must rate as a sound holding-proposition,
it may be unwise to count on anything
more than the 10 p.c. div. for a year or
two yet.
At last week’s price of 12s. 3d. the
yield from a 10 p.c. div. would be £4 Is.
Bd. p.c., book-values giving the scrip a
net tangible backing of 7s. 2d.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
T ess dependent on the primary-
producer, the Australian economy is
more and more gearing itself to the
insistent and increasing speed of the
giant and rapidly-growing industrial
flywheel. In keeping with these changes,
the directors of Permewan Wright, Ltd.,
are pushing ahead with their policy of
expansion and modernisation.
Incorporated in 1884, the co., serving
the rural areas of Victoria and N.S.W.,
at first. as a carrying- and forwarding-
agent and then as a produce and general
merchant, has now grown to an organisa-
tion which embraces 40 branch-stores —
25 in Victoria, 14 in N.S.W. and one in
South Australia. Last year the N.S.W.
branch at Tottenham was closed and
portion of the freehold of the Noble
Park (Vic.) branch sold. The co. entered
the metropolitan trade, acquiring in
October the businesses of Davis Bros.
Furniture Warehouse Pty. and its associ-
ate, Davis Acceptance Pty., both of
Melbourne. Since the end of the year
the co. has bought T. Lambert Pty., of
Armidale, N.S.W., and a retail furniture-
store in South Melbourne. With these
acquisitions, Permewan Wright has
extended further its already expanding
operations in the hire-purchase field.
Trading during the year was affected
by the decreased spending-power of the
man-on-the-land. Fodder sales were less
than for the previous year—and this
trend will continue with increased
mechanisation of farming methods —but
gains were made in other produce lines,
particularly in the sale of agricultural
seeds. Farm - machinery, building -
materials, fertilisers, etc., were down, but
hardware, clothing and groceries up.
Absorption and consolidation of the
newly-acquired metropolitan businesses
ate temporarily into earnings, but should
later repay the initial cost and go a long
way towards removing the ups-and-
downs associated with a dependency on
primary production. With a keener
appreciation of cost-control, reductions
were made in wages and salaries and
general operating expenses.
Net profit for the term fell by £42,935
to £77,533:
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
Jan,, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1954 .. 1137296 1 2 p.c. = 60,000 53,296 539,382
Murray Shipping recovery, £245 .. 539,627
From tax provisions, £31,500 .. .. 671,127
Share-premiums, £50,000 .. .. 621,127
Unexplained additions, £4133 .. .. 625,260
1955 .. 130,437 12 p.c. = 64,000 66,437 691,697
Unexplained addition, £1722 .. .. 693,419
1956 .. 103,927 12 p.c. = 84,000 19,927 713,346
Revaluation freeholds, £379,153 .. 1,092,499
To contingency reserve, £10,900 .. 1,103,399
To insurance reserve, £2840 .. .. 1,106,239
Profit sale assets, etc., £2972 .. 1,109,211
1957 . . 82,129 11 p.c. = 77,000 5,129 1,114,340
Reduction revaluation reserve, £4406.. 1,109,934
To insurance reserve, £4970 .. .. 1,114,904
Profit sale assets, £4390 .. .. 1,119,294
1958 .. 120,468 12Jp.c. = 87,500 32,968 1,152,262
Profit sale assets, £8964 .. ..1,161,226
Reduction property reserve, £3910 ..1,157,316
To insurance reserve, £lOl5 .. .. 1,158,331
1959 .. 77,533 12ip.c. = 87,500 1,148,364
Earning-rate on capital dropped from
the preceding year’s 17.2 p.c. to 11.1 p.c.;
the figures for earlier years were 1954,
22.6 p.c.; 1955, 24.4 p.c.; 1956, 14.8 p.c.;
and 1957, 11.7 p.c.
The dividend-rate was maintained at
12y p.c. and required £87,500. Reserves
fell by £3898, the pay-out to shareholders
absorbing all net profit for the year, plus
profit from the sale of part of the freehold
of the Noble Park branch. On a 12y p.c.
basis, div.-yield from the £1 ords. at the
current market price of 375. 6d. would
be £6 13s. 4d.
Net tangible assets backing remained
virtually unchanged at 525. lid., and is
represented as follows:
Parent and Subsidiary.
1957. 1958. 1958.
Paid capital . . £700,000 £700,000 £700,000
Reserves .. .. 1,114,338 1,152,262 1,148,364
Notes .. .. 100,000 300,000 300,000
Deposits . . .. 103,024 171,327 648,405
Overdraft .. .. 420,744 332,639 408,182
Creditors, etc. .. 419,775 • 606,373 506,388
Tax provision .. 129,051 144,350 107,795
Final div. .. 42,000 45,500 52,500
£3,028,932 £3,452,451 £3,871,634
Freeholds, etc. .. 957,632 1,049,255 1,198,723
Plant .. .. 209,988 238,125 290,839
Investments .. 500 500
Stock .. .. 1,035,343 1,171,704 1,209,229
Debtors .. .. -765,185 912,742 1,101,004
Cash, etc. .. 60,784 80,125 71,339
£3,028,932 £3,452,451 £3,871,634
Stock on hand increased slightly to
£1,209,229 (up £37,525); book-debts
jumped by £188,262 to £1,101,004 after
allowing provision (£103,094) for doubt-
ful debts not previously shown in the
accounts, and obviously in excess of
requirements. The increase in book debts
is a measure of the lowered liquid
financial resources of the primary
producer. The bank overdraft rose to
£408,182 (up £75,543), and deposits went
to £648,405 (up £477,078), the increase
in these funds being needed for the
directors’ expansion programme.
Ordinary creditors fell by £99,985 to
£506,388.
These several movements in current
assets and current liabilities, especially in
the rise of registered deposits, caused


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
Conduct
AUSTRALIAN
LIFE assi
DIRECTORS:
E. W. Robinson (C’man)
Col. R. S. Goward, C.B.E.
P. H. Phillips
T. Keith Smith
C. W. Rothe
S. J. Gandon
General Manager*
W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc.,
F.
General Secretary:
George Leslie, F.C.1.5.,
A.A.S.A.
HUNTER AND BLIGH
STREETS
SYDNEY
working-capital to drop by
£236,380 to £628,002. This con-
siderable fall is of theoretical
rather than .practical import,
and does not weaken the
financial moorings of the co.
With a strong backing of
assets and reserves and a
widening range of business
interests the directorate should
be able to maintain a greater
stability of profits than in past
years.
Bruntons (Holdings), Ltd.
V)S7Tth huge, unprecedented
* ’ accumulations of wheat in
the storage-bins of the tradi-
tional wheat - exporting
countries, the U.S.A., Canada
and Argentina, the Australian
Wheat Board faces the very
tough problem of disposal of
214-million bushels of wheat,
the estimated quantity avail-
able for sale in the 1958-59
season. Of this 214-million
bushels, 60 million should
satisfy home needs ; the
balance must ultimately be
shipped overseas.
Markets relied upon in
the past are vanishing under
competition from countries
offering wheat and flour
for export at prices far
below actual production
costs. Agreements with the
U.K., lapan, Ceylon and
Malaya will take care of only
about 43-million bushels of
Australian export-wheat. While
it now seems probable that the
U.K. will join the International
Wheat Agreement, recently
held conferences hold little
hope for a solution to the world
wheat crisis.
The immediate outlook for
the wheat industry cannot be
anything but gloomy. Brun-
tons, established back in 1886,
have weathered difficult periods
before, and last term, despite a
drop in export sales of flour—
the pinch was felt especially
in their Far East markets —
managed to maintain the 8 p.c.
div.
Profit for the year dropped
£20,210 to £34,041, presumably,
in the absence of turnover
figures, the result of the de-
creased export earnings and the
severe drought experienced by
N.S.W. last year, which necessi-
tated imports of flour and
wheat from other States.
Profit was determined after
writing-off £24,154 (previous
year £20,395) for deprecia-
tion and providing for taxation
£17,710 (down £20,495):
B run tons (Holdings) and Subsidiaries.
Re-
Feb., Profit. t —‘-Dividends-*--, serves.*
£ £ £
1953. .65,735 10 p.c. =35,000 f 112,765
Prelim, exes, w/off, £2460 j
Excess tax prov’n, £5252.. 118,017
1954. . 51,625 10 p.c. =35,000 134,642
Unexpl’d addition, £4735.. 139,377
1955.. 25,070 5 p.c.=17,500 146,947
Assets revalued, £190,987 337,934
Intangibles w/off, £89,690 248,244
1956.. 9,401 Nil 257,645
1957.. 25,418 5 p.c. =17,500 265,563
Tax overprovided, £748 .. 266,311
1958. .54,251 8 p.c. =28,000 292,562
From provision for deferred
maintenance, £5OOO .. 287,562
1959.. 34.041 8 p.c. =28,000 293,603
* Subject to £89,690 excess cost over
par-value of shares in .subsidiaries,
written-out of the accounts in 1956.
Earning-rate on paid-up capital
was 9.7 p.c., a steep decline
from the 15.5 p.c. shown in
1958, and leaving only £6041
for reserves (now £293,603)
after the 8 p.c. payout, and
after utilising £5OOO set aside
for deferred maintenance. Net
tangible backing for each ss.
share at February 28 last was
conservatively reckoned at
9s. 2d., the intrinsic worth of
fixed assets; according to the
board, being much more than
the £176,325 shown in the
balance-sheet. Working
capital was healthy at £152,815
(up £28,226). The 1958 bank
overdraft of £56,817 was con-
verted to a cash balance of
£29,343, due mainly to the
raising of a £48,750 loan on
mortgage on freeholds, to
lower stock-holdings (down
£17,029) and the repayment of
advances made to customers
(debtors were down £117,005
after deducting a £25,000 pro-
vision for doubtful debts, the
provision being increased
during the year by £2500).
Consolidated Balance-sheet.*
1957. 1958. 1959.
£ £ £
Paid capital.. 350,000 350,000 350,000
Reserves .. 265,563 292,562 293,603
Mortgage .. 48,750
Overdraft .. 115,995 56,817
Creditors, etc. 182,584 174,507 118,902
Tax provision 13,550 38,205 17,710
Final divs. . . 17,500 14,000 14,000
945,192 926.091 842,965
Freeholds . . 332,791 332,650 332,650
Plant . . 197,905 184,760 176,325
Stock .. -84,216 99,764 82,735
Debtors .. 329,717 308,354 191,349
Cash, etc. .. - 29,343
Investments .. 563 563 30,563
945,192 920,091 842,965
* Accounts of subsidiaries made up to
November 30.
In his report the chairman
says that all necessary pro-
visions have been made by the
subsidiaries and that mill-
properties and plant are in
good order. The N.S.W. sub-
sidiary, biding its time with
“idle capacity” in 1957-58
following on the poor harvest
in N.S.W., has now, with a
good growers’ season, resumed
normal activities. Pacific
Island and other export busi-
ness, temporarily taken over
and executed by the Victorian
subsidiary, has been returned.
The chairman concluded his
address with the hope that
through the auspices of the
International Wheat Agree-
ment, markets lost might be
regained, and those on the
borderline consolidated. This
hope may be realised, but its
achievement is extremely prob-
lematical and just how it is to
be attained is a matter for con-
jecture.
The market currently values
the ss. stock-units at 4s. 9d.,
which, on last year’s dividend-
rate of 8 p.c., would yield
8.4 p.c.
Bennett and Wood, Ltd.
/Converted from a propriet-
ary to a public company
in October, 1955, Bennett and
Wood for the year to February,
1956, showed a net profit of
£146,232 and declared a \l\
p.c. div., calling for £98,462.
This was certainly a lush
period. Since then conditions
have become much more com-
petitive. Profit for last term
at £58,951 had dropped heavily
from the heights reached in
1956. Shareholders who paid
255. 6d. for the 10s. shares at
the time of conversion have
had little chance of getting
their money back; even in
the present buoyant share-
market the scrip last sold at
15s. Present div. is 10 p.c.,
compared with the 17 \ p.c.
at the flotation.
It would seem that 1956 and
1957 were years of exceptional
fortune for the co., and that
last term’s profits were a reflec-
tion of normal, conditions con-
sistent with the increasing
competition which the motor
industry was bound, eventually,
to experience.
Profit for 1959 was down
£25,127 on the 1958 figure;
this after providing £18,239
for depreciation (up £2089)
and £25.000 for tax-provision
(down £21,200):
Re-
Feb., Profit. t — — serves.
£ £ £
To stock provision, £ 20,000 1,062,611
’56..146,232 174 p.c. = 98,462 1,110,381
To stock provision, £20,000 1,090,351
To staff fund, £20,000 . . 1,070,381
’57..135,525 15 p.e. = 84,396 1,121,511
Long-service prov., £52,482 1,069,029
Tax overprovided, £6314. . 1,075,343
Profit sale assets, £975 .. 1,076,318
’58.. 84,078 124 p.c. = 70,330 1,090,066
’59.. 58,951 10 „ „ 56,263 1,092,754
In his address to share-
holders, chairman H. W.
Chancellor spoke of the year’s
trading as a period of intense
and difficult competition. Con-
trollable costs were effectively
pruned, the economies therein
more than , compensating for
the increase in some items of
expense beyond the co.’s juris-
diction. Bennett and Wood
shouldered its way through the
pressures of the year with a
reasonable but nevertheless
o Continued on page 32)


In the Lawson Country
The Gold of Gulgong
By J. O. A. PARKINSON
While I certainly enjoyed
each episode of
“Duke” Tritton’s
, fascinating story of
the bush life of the early part
of this century (“Time means
Tucker”), I do feel dis-
appointed that he should have
relied on his memory and the
reminiscences of the old-timers
in respect of the Gulgong
goldfield. Regretfully, too, the
“official figures” quoted from
the “M udg e e Guardian”
(1954) are not all in accor-
dance with the published re-
cords.
It does not, of course, spoil
the Tritton story, and it is in-
deed remarkable that after 50
years Mr. Tritton should re-
member so many details.
I wonder if he would
mind if I point out from
official sources the principal
errors which occur in the
statements concerning the
discovery of gold at Gulgong,
the idea that the Black Lead
was the main lead, that all sub-
sidiary leads ran into it, and
the value of the field as a
whole?
The first recorded mention
of the discovery of gold at
what was 18 years after to
become the “Gulgong rush”
is in the then Government Geo-
logist’s (Mr. S. Stutchbury’s)
report dated October 1, 1852.
He had “obtained small gold
upon the summits of several
ranges in the immediate neigh-
borhood of Guntawang.” The
report later quotes “four
miles east of the junction of
Wyaldra Creek with the Cudge-
gong.... I searched for, and
found gold close to the sur-
face. .. .it is round, nuggety, of
a rough character.”
Fourteen years later, in
August, 1866, J. Deitz and
party (J. Holburd and J. Lehne)
were granted a prospecting
claim three miles s.-e. of the
present township on the Old
Gulgong Reef, but it was soon
abandoned.
In June, 1867 (the month
and the year of Henry
Lawson’s birth), payable gold
was found 12 miles west of
the present township, and in
the same year close to the
junction of the Wyaldra Creek
and the Cudgegong River,
miles west of Gulgong. This
latter discovery yielded, in
addition to the gold, a con-
siderable number of diamonds,
almost the first commercial
production in N.S.W. This
area later became known as
the Beryl (or Diamond Fields)
Lead.
In January, 1870, T.
Saunders arrived in the area,
and, together with J. Deitz,
A Shaft at Gulgong in the “Roaring Days” (July, 1872)
From the historic collection of Beaufoy Merlin photographs, Keast Burke's selections from
which were published in 1953 in The Bulletin and “The Australasian Photo-Review.”
prospected round Surface Hill
and its vicinity. Messrs. Fox
and party also started pros-
pecting at Surface Hill during
February, 1870. During the
same month (about the 24th)
Saunders and Deitz found
gold and applied for a pros-
pecting-claim ; Saunders and
a Mr. Bullock began to work
the claim and recovered some
30 ounces in 10 days, after
which it cut-out.
On April 6 Deitz, T. Saun-
ders and Saunders’s brother
prospected Red Hill and found
gold. April 8 was the big day ;
T. Saunders in a few hours got
14oz. of gold. The party
reported having found payable
gold to Sergeant O’Donnel at
Two Mile Flat, the scene of the
disqovery of 1867, which was
still being worked. It is quite
possible—indeed, even likely —
that the Ned Saunders with
whom Dutchy and Duke
worked was the brother of T.
Saunders, to whom is given the
credit of causing the “rush” to
Gulgong.
The Black Lead certainly
was a rich alluvial lead, but
was only one, and certainly not
the largest of a number of com-
pletely separate tributary lead-
systems which, trending n.-e.,
north, w.-s.-w., were traced to
(or ultimately, although not
traced to, must join) the Main
or Cooyal-Gulgong deep-
lead, which in its lower reaches
follows generally the course
of the Cudgegong River and
has been worked for many
miles.
Those tributaries proved to
have junctioned with the Black
Lead are the Parramatta, Black
Swan, Happy Valley, Coming
Event, Standard and Cosmo-
politan. Some of these joined,
before entering the Black Lead.
There is every prospect that
before entering the Main Lead,
the Star Lead and its tribu-
taries join with the Black.
Following the instructions of
J. E. Carne, then the Govern-
ment Geologist, “make a geo-
logical examination of the
Gulgong Goldfield, paying
special attention to the deep-
leads,” field-work was com-
menced by the N.S.W. Mines
Dept, in May, 1919, and, with
interruptions, continued into
the 1930’5, culminating with
the publication in 1940 of
Mineral Resources No. 38 in
two parts, the first dealing with
the field generally, Part II with
the magnetic prospecting of the
Gulgong deep-leads. J. M.
Raynor, in Part 11, suggests
that at least two, or possibly
three, unprospected tributaries
junction with the Black Lead
below the last workings.
By 1878 working had prac-
tically ceased on the Black
Lead. However, since then
many attempts, mostly ill-
advised, or lacking capital,
have been made to get some
of the gold which undoubtedly


When you open an
account with the C.B.C.
Expert banking services
and many facilities become
immediately available to you
You will appreciate the bank’s friendly
personal service and all that it can do to help
you and your family.
<2^
The C.B.C. Savings
Bank enables a family to
transact all its business under
one roof.
Open a C.B.C. Savings
Account and make your
money grow.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY)
lies in the Black Lead. As
recently as 1935 a company
deepened a shaft sunk in 1924
and attempted to prove the
wash. This was followed by
four boreholes being sunk with
departmental aid, one of which
showed Ift. of wash carrying
an ounce of gold per cubic
yard, equal to the average of
the lead.
In 1874, as reported by Mr.
Warden Browne (Mines and
Mineral Statistics, 1875), the
average yield per load for the
Black Lead is quoted as 4dwt.
to 6dwt. Considering the very
rich values (up to lOoz. per
cub.-yd.) obtained in some
claims during the years 1871-74,
the‘average of an ounce would
probably be fairly accurate.
With regard to the other
tributary lead-systems, there
are far too many tn list, but,
briefly, all of the score or so
of the Home Rule group, all
of those s.-s.-w. of Gulgong
(another score or so of leads
including Mapie, Three Mile,
Caladonien, etc.), and those
west of the town, such as
Beryl, Frazer, Perseverance,
etc., are completely independ-
ent of the Black Lead, and all
ultimately junction with the
Main Gulgong-Cooyal channel.
/~\nly three shafts have ever
been bottomed on the Main
Lead within five miles of Gul-
gong. Of these, two were
drowned-out with heavy water
and drifts before any under-
ground work was done, and
the third ultimately suffered
the same fate.
Most of the leads struck
water when the sinking reached
more than 100 ft., and in all
cases it increased heavily when
approaching the main lead.
The quotation from the
“Mudgee Guardian” cannot be
allowed to pass.
The first mention is from
the “S. M. Herald,” Sept. 27,
1871, and is a correct copy.
The area of 680 acres is from
the annual report of the
Department of Mines, 1875,
but the statement of the
average of 4oz. 5 grains over
this area is hopelessly
inaccurate.
A little arithmetic shows
that if the 680 acres averaged
this fabulous yield, this one
lead (out of some 50) pro-
duced eight times as much
gold as is recorded for the
whole of the Gulgong gold-
field, from discovery to the
present day.
I suspect that a slip has
occurred, and would think that
the cause is contained in the
annual report for 1876, which
quotes as an illustration of the
wash in a rich claim the pro-
duct of N 6. 7 Happy Valley
Lead —62030 z. from 1546
loads, being an average of 4oz.
5 grains.
It would appear that this
has been mistaken to be the
average of the whole lead.
Another thing which should
be borne in mind is that rarely,
if ever, is more than a small
percentage of a deep-lead
worked. From experience, I
would say the average is as low
as 10 p.c. of the total lead.
There are many reasons for
this: water, bad roof, patchy
values, etc., by far the most
common being that rare indeed
is the lead which is rich
enough in any mineral to allow
the whole to be treated, in-
cluding sandbanks, mullocky
falls, rockbound sections, etc.
Bear in mind, these old leads
are just the same as our
present-day creeks and rivers,
simply being covered over to
various depths, sometimes with
silt, sometimes with sand,
sometimes lava (basalt), and
sometimes with all three and
other things.
While Gulgong was certainly
a rich alluvial field during the
years 1870-76, it is a far cry
from being the greatest alluvial
goldfield in the world, or even
Australia. Certainly the
official figures would most
likely be very much less than
the gold actually obtained, but
as this applied to every gold-
field of those days (and today),
the official figures give a
reasonable comparison.
Many illustrations can be
quoted of richer alluvial fields.
At Ballarat one mine pro-
duced 400,0000 z. from alluvial
(Continued on page 49)


A safe and profitable
INVESTMENT
po.
FOR 3 YEARS AND OVER
9% for 2 years 8% for 1 year
Guaranteed by
an Independent
Insurance Company
who issue a separate indemnify policy direct to the
depositor, covering principal and interest.
• Your'money is guaranteed by an independent
Insurance Company who, if necessary, are liable to
repay your principal and interest.
• Interest is paid quarterly.
0 £5OO accrues to £1,023 in 7£ years.
This outstanding investment is again available with
Manufacturers'
(N.S.W.) FINANCE COMPANY
2nd Floor, Northern House, 13/15 O'Connell St., Sydney.
Telephone BW 2661 (10 lines). ...,
POST THIS COUPON
Manufacturers' (N.S.W.) Finance Company,
Box 4790, G.P.0., Sydney, for detailed brochure.
YOUR NAME
YOUR ADDRESS
B. 17/6/’o9
reduced turnover, and in addi-
tion conserved and strength-
ened the overall fibre of
reserves, building them to a
solid £1,092,754 (up £2688 on
1958). Stocks were rendered
free of obsolescent and over-
valued items, so that the pro-
vision of £40,000 for
“fluctuation in stock prices,”
deducted from stock in the
accounts, would seem, essen-
tially, a free reserve.
The co., controlled from its
head office and store in Pitt
Street, Sydney, with branches
in the N.S.W. towns of Goul-
burn, Lismore, Newcastle,
Orange, Tamworth, Parra-
matta, Wagga and Wollongong
and a branch in Brisbane (Q.),
should be ready to take swift
advantage of any improvement
in the market. On present
indications greater buoyancy
will be felt in the motor-trade
this year, and with buyers’
demand higher in the country
districts —following better
returns to primary producers
last year—the current term
should favor some recovery in
Bennett and Wood’s figures.
The business, founded
originally in 1882, sold, in its
infancy, cycles and cycle-parts
and accessories. Now its acti-
vities embrace the service of
all types of motor-vehicles, and
it is said to be the largest
merchandiser of motor-parts
and accessories, service-station
equipment, cycles and motor-
cycles in N.S.W. Over the
years the co. has secured
agencies for the sale of the
world-famous B.S.A. and Sun-
beam motor-cycles and more
recently for the Honda motor-
cycle. In 1957 it took over
the distribution of the Lam-
bretta motor-scooter in N.S.W.
and Queensland, and in the
same year commenced selling
B.S.A. motor-scooters. The co ;
finances its own retail hire-
purchase sales throughout
N.S.W. and Queensland. In
his report the chairman high-
lighted the very satisfactory
sales of the co.-manufactured
Speedwell push-bike, and com-
mented on the envisaged
development of new lines
under this same trademark.
In line with the reduced
turnover, stocks fell to
£856,580 (down £70,226) and
debtors dropped by £169,364
to £588,301. Creditors de-
creased correspondingly, the
figure falling to £301,760
(down £60,100). Provision for
taxation was lower at £68,179
(down £60,839). The bank
overdraft, in keeping with direc-
tors’ policy, was cut by
£126,771 to £172,152, reaching
the lowest level since 1956.
Since the end of the year it has
been converted into a credit
balance:
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £562,636 £562,636
Reserves .. 1,090,066 1,092,754
Overdraft .. 298,923 172,152
Creditors, etc. .. 490,878 369,939
Final div. .. 28,132 28,132
£2,470,635 £2,225,613
Freeholds, lease-
holds . . .. 686,522 684,952
Plant .. .. .98,266 94,388
Stock .. .. 926,806 856,580
Debtors .. .. 757,665 588,301
Cash .. .. 1,376 1,392
£2,470,635 £2,225,613
The sum total effect of these
various movements in current
assets and liabilities resulted
in a small increase of working-
capital—up £8136 to £876,050.
Movements in fixed assets
have not been considerable.
Net tangible assets back-
ing at the end of February
at 295. sd. per 10s. stock unit
was virtually unchanged from
that of the preceding year.
United Uranium, N.L.
A rmed with a £5-million
contract from the U.K.
Atomic Energy Authority,
United Uranium commenced
continuous production of
uranium-oxide at its Moline
(N.T.) treatment-plant early
last month. The co. expects
to complete deliveries before
the end of 1965.
Employing the solvent-
extraction process, for the first
time in Australia, the plant is
reported to be operating
smoothly.
Expenditure last term (to
December 31) was, principally,
of a capital nature, £312,439
going into plant (£240,766),
buildings and stores, £46,637
into exploration and develop-
ment of the South Alligator
field and £52,523 into the
mining and stockpiling of ore.
The exploration of outside
areas took a further £10,492,
administration expenses, etc.
(£19,395), and sundry income
(£2776) giving a total net out-
lay of £441,486.
At balance-date the co.’s
plant and buildings were in the
accounts at £540,398, against
which £llO,OOO had been pro-
vided for depreciation, mine
property and development
standing at £578,817. As might
be expected, finances were
rather thin, the amount owing
to the bankers (£103,221) and
creditors (£87,699) exceeding
current assets (stores, £76,748 ;
ore-stocks £52,523) by £50,637.
However, the co. has
reached production without
stretching too far beyond its
own capital-resources, pro-
ceeds from the sale of pitch-
blende - concentrates in the
1957 term easing the strain
and permitting payment, dur-
ing that term, of the first div.
—ls. a 45.-paid share to mem-
bers of the original holding
cos., Uranium Mines, N.L.,
and Northern Uranium
Development, N.L. Unappro-
priated profits at December 31
amounted to £113,578, after
writing-off £209,767 of outside
prospecting-costs, and £22,115
of preliminary expenses, and
deducting £19,375 transferred
from the working-account.
Paid capital, £845,000, is in
f.-p. ss. ords.
Ore reserves were estimated
at 125,508 long tons averaging
7.7531 b. oxide per ton. This is
only 836 tons above the figuro
given a year earlier, explora-
tion work being curtailed dur-
ing the “abnormal delay” in
concluding the U.K. agree-
ment. The co. won 12,321. tons
of ore from the El Sherana
opencut during the term and
removed 29,649 tons of over-
burden, the 14,342 tons of ore
on hand at the end of the year
(averaging 12.0231 b. oxide per
ton) being sufficient to keep
the mill occupied for about
five months.
Divs. could start to flow
again within the next nine
months but, until working-
costs are revealed, the div.-rate
remains a matter for conjec-
ture. However, at a rough
guess, buyers of the ss. ords.
at last week’s price of Bs. 2d.
should be able to count on
their capital back, plus, pos-
sibly, up to 50 p.c., by the
time the present contract cuts-
out.
Beyond that, the outlook is
none too certain. While it is
thought unlikely that the use
of heavy hydrogen, as an alter-
native fuel to uranium, will
reach a significant level before
1980, early forecasts suggest
continued weakness in uranium
markets until the late 1960’5,
with a stronger demand being
established by 1970.


gsd
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
SAVE
£5OO to
£lOOO P.A.
IN TAX
This Year and
Each Year
for the Next 5 Years
A strictly Limited Offer of
Outstanding Tax Savings
Opportunity to
of
Higher-than-average
Incomes
Particulars by Personal
Interview. For Appoint-
ment, phone—•
Jl,
D. M. CLARKE
& COMPANY
Tax Consultants
11 Randle Street, Sydney.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2 fr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, June 9, 1959.
the Minister of
** Finance, Mr. Nordmeyer,
a year ago imposed the most
drastic taxation in N.Z.’s his-
tory, he said he expected to be
able to show a surplus of
£300,000 in the Consolidated
Fund and a surplus of £6.4
million in Social Security.
How wide of the mark his
estimate was, and how
rapacious his taxation has been!
The combined surplus in the
two funds for the financial
year to March 31 was not
£6.7 million but £16.3 million.
And that was after unbudgeted
transfers of £9 million to the
Defence Fund and £5 million
to the Public Works Account.
The real surplus, therefore,
was £30.3 million.
Total receipts were £322.1
million, against an estimate of
£300.4 million. Total pay-
ments (including the £l4 mil-
lion of unbudgeted transfers)
amounted to £305.8 million,
against an estimated £293.8
million.
Source of the Surplus
TlG’here did the extra money
come from?
Taxation brought £10.9 mil-
lion more than the estimate
to the Consolidated Fund and
£10.5 million more than the
estimate to the Social Security
Fund.
The following table shows
how actual receipts compared
with the estimates:
v Actual. Estimate.
£OOO £OOO
Customs .. .. 40,000 35,000
Beer-duty .. v .. 11,300 12,700
Sales-tax .. .. 25,800 22,000
Estate, racing and
stamp duties .. 17,400 18,100
Income - tax .. 109,400 105,000
Social-security tax 80,600 70,000
Other tax .. 1,700 1,500
Other receipts .. 35,900 35,700
The Consolidated Fund and
the Social Security Fund are,
of course, only two of the 15
accounts within the Public
Account, but to the taxpayer
they are the most important.
The Government Account
as a whole showed an overall
cash surplus of £15.4 million.
That, said the Minister, was
the salient-point about the
country’s finances.
The surplus was achieved
after long - term overseas
borrowing of £27.7 million.
“If we had not borrowed
abroad on a long-term basis,
to help finance our capital
programme we would have
finished the year with a deficit
of £12.3 million,” said Mr.
Nordmeyer.
That is quite true. But the
fact remains that Mr. Nord-
meyer has collected in taxa-
tion a total of £21.4 million
more than he said he needed
and expected to get.
Case for Tax-reduction
Tn such circumstances the case
for a tax-reduction seems
unanswerable. But Mr. Nord-
meyer is still rather reluctant
to concede it.
“The figures quoted in the
Public Accounts will no doubt
raise in the hearts of many
the expectation of some tax-
reduction,” he said, putting it
very mildly. But, he added, the
extent of any such reduction
would depend, at least in part,
on the response to the current
£ 15-million works loan.
That is all very well; but it
is, quite plainly, putting the
cart before the horse. Mr.
Nordmeyer can’t expect to tax
people to the limit without
affecting their ability to save
and to contribute to Govern-
ment loans.
In a broadcast review of
the financial year he noted a
serious decline in small sav-
ings.
“At Budget time last year,”
he said, “it appeared reason-
able to expect that the Govern-
ment would have available
about £lB million from small
savings to assist in financing
the works programme. In
fact only £6,500,000 was
obtained from this source.”
If the significance of this fact
is not plain to Mr. Nordmeyer,
it should be.
The central committee of
the Combined State Service
Organisations, represent in g
more than 100,000 public
servants, has protested to the
Government against “the pre-
sent unduly high rate of
income-taxation and other
taxation.”
The committee says this
taxation is not only increas-
ingly forcing many wage-
earners to sacrifice their savings
to meet ordinary living costs,
but is threatening the economic
stability of the country, par-
ticularly by excessively reduc-
ing purchasing power.
The chairman of the com-
mittee pointed out that in
1958-59 withdrawals exceeded
deposits in the Post Office
Savings Bank by nearly
£1,800,000. It was a reason-
able inference that people had
been forced to draw on their
savings to meet their commit-
ments in the face of increased
taxation and higher living
costs.
In spite of this sacrifice of
reserves, he said, retail sales
for the March, 1959, quarter
were 6 per cent, lower than in
the March, 1958, quarter. If,
allowing for increased popu-
lation and higher prices, the
same relative volume of sales
had been maintained, they
should have been 8 per cent,
higher.
“Unless steps are taken to
remedy the situation our in-
dustrial development must re-
ceive a severe check, with pos-
sible disastrous repercussions
on employment,” he said.
Many of these public ser-
vants are Labor supporters,
and the Government can be
expected to take careful note
of their views.
The Prime Minister, Mr.
Nash, has given an assurance
that the Government will ease
restrictions on imports and
ease other economic controls
“to the greatest extent eco-
nomic circumstances reason-
ably permit.”
In doing so, however, he
added a warning. “New Zea-
land’s rate of. growth, hence
its increasing demand for capi-
tal and consumer goods and
services, is so rapid that it will
place a strain on our capacity
to earn overseas exchange for
years to come,” he said.
Import-restrictions Eased
"pOR the second time within a
few weeks the Govern-
ment has announced an easing
of import-control.
In mid-April an extra allo-
cation of about £lB million
for imports was made. Now
another £2O million is to be
provided.
Though the emphasis is on
manufacturers’ plant and
materials, the scale of relaxa-
tion has, this time, made pos-
sible much more provision for
consumer goods.
The allocation for spirits \
such as whisky and brandy is
being increased by 25 per cent.


Beirut Blonde
By JOE DARLO
Morning, the sun shout-
ing from the distant,
snow-topped moun-
tains, shining back
from the blue triangle of the
port, the amazing blue of the
Mediterranean ; the air heavy
with coffee, petrol, fresh bread,
and something else, burnt and
pungent and elusive, the
indescribable and authentic
smell of the Middle East.
Jim Kennedy stood on the
marble steps of the hotel,
scowling at the famous view,
the profile of the city, the new,
tall, American-style buildings,
the scaffolding of newer build-
ings thrusting up, minarets of
mosques, Christian crosses,
flags. A gay, cosmopolitan
city, where life could be an
exquisite experience for the
rich, something less than that
for the poor, and where Euro-
peans, by definition, were rich.
A good city when you had
money in your pocket. He
had the price of a couple of
weeks more of luxurious living,
and then—what?
He shrugged. Something
would turn up— lnsh’ Allah, he
added automatically. Allah
willing. Something, he hoped,
not too illegal.
He strolled down the steps
and along the street, a black-
browed, surly-looking, solid
man, walking with a hint of
the horseman’s swagger. His
muscles were loose, almost
floppy, from the Turkish-bath
and Marika the masseuse’s
clever fingers, and he was
filled with a sense of well-
being that didn’t show on his
dark, strong-boned face.
His mornings in Beirut had
followed a pattern. Coffee
and rolls in bed, shaved by
the Armenian barber, a
Turkish-bath to sweat-out last
night’s grog, followed by
Marika’s kneading and pound-
ing and broad jests. Then, in
linen sweet from the laundry,
a stroll, coffee, cognac. Setting
himself up for the evening.
Good while it lasted.
The street of boulevarde-
cafes and smart shops was
always crowded, but suddenly
he realised he was being car-
ried along by a different sort
of crowd, Moslem, aggressive,
noisy, with banners: a rioting
crowd.
He drifted along, alert but
n'ot very alarmed. The Smith
and Wesson made a comfort-
able bulge. He had been
knocking around the Middle
East, off and on, since the end
of the Second World War, and
he had seen a few riots. He
knew, too, that they were not
invariably the Bastille-storming
affairs they seemed in cabled
reports. A riot, often enough,
was a conventional expression
of political opinion, a loyal
toast, and the man-in-the-
street’s theatre, all rolled into
one. Although the local man-
in-the-street’s taste in theatre,
like the Roman pleb.’s, could
turn a bit grim . . .
This riot, anyway, didn't
seem very formidable. The
fellows with the banners, up
in front, might be in deadly
earnest, ,but here among the
rearguard there was a distinct
picnic air, much laughter and
horse-play.
The van turned into a side
street, the main body and the
rearguard hurried after. There
was a backwash, a spreading
out and shouting. Jim lit a
cigarette. So they were stoning
the French Consulate. He had
thought it was the local
tiouble ; but, after all, the two
were related ; pan - Arab
demonstrations against the
French here in Lebanon,
penetration from Syria into
Lebanon. Trouble in Algeria,
trouble in Iraq, Jordan,
Lebanon. Time he got out —
trade the price of two more
weeks in Beirut for a passage
back to Australia . . .
TTp in the front rank banners
bobbed, flew, some-
one made a speech, but here
the dominant emotion was
pleased curiosity. A pedlar
came around selling sticky
sweets black with ' flies, a
cripple demanded alms, two
long-necked, adolescent boys
held hands and giggled.
Then, somewhere in the
middle of the crowd, some-
thing happened. A boiling of
movement, figures running
towards it from all sides, a
sharp yelp, and the deep,
ominous, unmistakable growl
of the pack. Somewhere in
there a human was being
harried to death ; the ancient,
brutal theatre of the streets.
He- ran, sprinting, body
leaning forward, hands and
knees high, cutting through the
thin outskirts of the crowd like
a good Rugby winger, using
hip, shoulder, palm, uncon-
sciously, Rugby-fashion, on
anything in his path, leaving a
wake of sprawling, surprised
bodies.
His burst carried him deep
into the mass of bodies, where
he hacked a way, using fists,
elbows and feet efficiently.
Foul breath full in his face,
a glimpse of raving eyes, a
fleck of foam at the corner
of a working mouth. A tre-
mendous wrench and he had
thrust the face aside, pene-
trated the central knot. He
plucked the mob’s prey from
the road, whirled and shot
mad-eyes in the belly, and, the
crash of the shot and the man’s
brazen scream dinning in his
ears, plunged on, dragging the
mob’s victim.
As in a cavalry charge, the
charge itself, the speed and
shock and surprise of it, car-
ried him through. The mob’s
eyes turned involuntarily to
the screaming man for an
important moment . . .
He hammered at the gate,
roared in French and English,
open, for the love of God,
open the bloody gate, and fired
a careful shot into the running
mob.
Then he was inside, the mob
raging outside, stones rattling
against the gate. Inside, safe,
blowing and sweating, legs
trembling. He shook his drip-
ping head, glanced at his com-
panion, whose arm he still
gripped. A woman, young and
naked; the mob had ripped
her clothes away in seconds,
would have torn her to pieces
in minutes. Torn stockings,
scuffed shoes, angry scratches
running down the white,
nubile body, fair hair tumbled,
blue eyes blank with shock.
The girl’s eyes cleared,


glanced around wildly, down.
“Oh, heavens! ” she said
loudly.
Someone threw a rug
around her, a sympathetically
twittering Frenchwoman led
her away.
Her name was Carol Max-
well, and she was an
American newspaperwoman,
he learned three-quarters of an
hour later, the two of them
sitting drinking coffee with a
grave Frenchman. She had
been walking back to her hotel
from the Place des Martyrs;
had intended to write a feature,
linking that piece of Lebanese
history with the current dis-
turbances ; had been trapped
by the crowd . . .
“It is wise to take a taxi,”
the Frenchman said gravely.
“Most of all, now.”
She- started to thank Ken-
nedy, but he cut across what
she was saying:
“Those scratches —did you
put something on them?”
Her blue eyes widened
slightly, but she held out her
bandaged hands: “As you see,”
she said simply.
“Yes, yes,” he said im-
patiently. “But the others, on
your body.”
She flushed. “Nothing to
worry about,” she said coldly.
His dark eyes stared at her.
She was wearing a borrowed
frock, too small for her,
bosom and hips ready to burst
from the blue stuff ; new stock-
ings, the same scuffed shoes.
He said slowly: “In this
part of the world the slightest
scratch can cause infection. I
advise you to be very careful
of those abrasions, Miss Max-
well.”
“I see,” she said ; and he
thought, perhaps she does see.
She was pale, but remark-
ably self-possessed, considering.
Most women would be having
screaming hysterics . . .
She looked intelligent, even
attractive, in a cerebral Ameri-
can way. Anywhere else he
might have been interested in
her, but Beirut was a city of
fascinating women, of rampant
femininity, and, one way or
another, he had his hands full.
While his money lasted . . .
She smiled, showing strong,
even white teeth. “1711 be very
careful. Are you a doctor or
something?”
“Horse-doctor.”
“You mean —a veterinarian?”
“Yes.”
“Isn’t . . .” She hesitated.
“I mean, is there much scope
for your sort of work here?”
“In the Middle East?”
She nodded.
“Yes and no. Plenty of work
to be done, but not many
anxious to pay for it. The oil-
sheiks prefer Cadillacs and pre-
fabricated palaces. There are
a few vets, working for U.N.
here and there; mainly ad-
visory jobs. Something doing
in Israel, perhaps ; I’m thinking
of going there, later. But, by
and large, unless you strike an
enlightened despot who wants
to do something about animal
disease, there’s not much doing
for a private practitioner.”
“Did you strike an enlight-
ened despot?”
He smiled. It lighted up his
dark face wonderfully, she
thought, •" made him seem
pleasant and human. “You
could hardly call the old Kaid
of Sulat enlightened. But he
was fond of his horses.”
“Sulat! ”
'His eyes quickened: “You
know it?”
“It’s in North Africa, isn’t
it? In the Atlas Mountains?
As a matter of fact, I’d like to
go there.”
“Why?”
Che glanced at the French-
man, back at Kennedy:
“Oh, it seems an interesting
place to go, don’t you think?
Off the beaten track.”
“Well off,” ’ Kennedy said
grimly. “You’d last about five
minutes—not that you’d be
allowed to go there.”
“Sulat,” the Frenchman said.
“No, certainly you would not
be permitted to go to Sulat.”
“But you were there,” Carol
said, blue eyes turned on
Kennedy.
“At the old Kaid’s invitation.
He’s dead, and things are only
middling there now, I under-
stand It’s wild country ‘at
best —the old Kaid was a sort
of feudal baron and the
French have their hands full,
anyway, particularly in
Algeria.”
He paused, embarrassed by
the presence of the quiet
Frenchman. “That’s pretty well
the position, isn’t it?”
“Unfortunately, yes. Com-
munist arms go from Egypt to
Algerian rebels. There was a
chance to settle with Nasser,
but”—the Frenchman smiled
bitterly—“your country. Miss
Maxwell, put a stop to that.”
“Suez,” Carol said crisply.
“Yes. We realise that now.
You wouldn’t have much time
to spare in Morocco.”
“A corner of Morocco,” the
Frenchman said. “A wild,
feudal part.”
“But an important one?”
Carol asked.
“Perhaps. In any case, Miss
Maxwell, you will not be per-
mitted to go there, I can assure
you. When the old Kaid was
alive, it might have been
possible. A strong man, and
a good friend of France, he
kept a rough peace in those
mountains. Now, there are
disturbances.”
“A good old dynastic free-
for-all,” Carol murmured. “I
can imagine. But what about
this nej>hew of the old Kaid’s
—Moulay Abdullah? Isn’t he
in control now?”
“It appears you are very well
informed, Miss Maxwell,” the
Frenchman said.
Kennedy stood up. “We’d
better be going,” he said.
“Thanks for saving our skins.”
“A pleasure.” The French-
man looked relieved. “I will
ring for a taxi.”
“Qo you see.” Carol sai<f, late
that afternoon, nursing a
cocktail, “whoever gets there
first gets a world scoop.”
“Or a bullet,” Kennedy said.
They were sitting in the
lounge at Carol's hotel. The
American girl interested him ;
a type outside the normal
range of his experience of
women, a career-woman. Not
that most women weren’t
careerists, he thought cynically,
but usually they used their
femininity. This girl competed
with men direct, in a tough
field.
Although, perhaps, she did
take advantage of her sex,
after all ; subtly. She had been
pumping him about Sulat, and
he had let her. He couldn’t
see himself spending the best
part of a day being pumped by
a male newspaperman.
“A world scoop,” Carol said
dreamily. “No one knows
which way this Moulay Ab-
dullah is going to jump. You
never met him, you say?”
Kennedy shook his head:
“He never came near the old
Kaid’s Kasbah in my time—in
disgrace, I suppose, or just
cautious. He’s killed-off his
cousins now, if your informa-
tion is correct; he’s top-dog.
I still can't see why you want
to go there. Apart from any-
thing else, Lebanon seems the
place for news-stories just
now.”
“And top men from all the
agencies here, watching it like
hawks?” She shook her fair
head. “No. If I’m not careful
I’ll find myself on a plane, off
to human-interest piece
on some oil-sheik’s harem. Be-
sides, it’s in the logic of the
set-up that there’ll be action
over that way soon notice
how it see-saws, from one end
to the other? I’ve got a hunch
the next trouble-spot is over
there, and this time I aim to
be in on it early. Moulay
Abdullah seems to be sitting
on top of a heap of strategic
dynamite, if what I heard
about minerals is right. You
sure you know nothing about
that?”
“Not a thing.”
“Even if there isn’t,” Carol
said, “he controls all those
tribesmen. What a difference
they would make, at this
stage, thrown in on one side
or the other.”
“Damn - all difference,”
Kennedy said. “Their arms
are prehistoric.”
“But what if they had
modern weapons—from Cairo,
say? They’re warriors from
way back, aren’t they? You
said so yourself. With modern
arms—l tell you, things are
happening in the Middle East.
Or haven’t you noticed?”
“I’ve been pretty busy,”
Kennedy said.
“Yes, with your charming
Polish and Rumanian women
—you told me. I love the
boastful male.”
“Not boastful,” Kennedy
said. “Virile. And truthful.
You asked me. I told you.
You ask a lot of personal
questions, young woman —
maybe it’s an occupational
disease. Personally I think it’s
unwomanly.”
CJhe smiled: “Since we’re
being frank mind if I
say something? That particu-
lar masculine attitude, that
women are simply creatures
for men’s entertainment, is
rather unfunny, I think.
“It’s an attitude you’ll find
pretty common in the Middle
East,” he said mildly. “It
isn’t adopted for your benefit,
you know. It’s been here
a few thousand years.”
“Oh, I know all about that,”
she said scornfully. “I’ve
interviewed Moslem women.”
“You feel sorry for them?”
Kennedy asked.
She was surprised:
“Naturally.”
“And they probably feel
sorry for you.” His dark eyes
inspected her. “Here, they say
to themselves, is a woman of
marriageable age who has no
man to make her nights
happy, to give her children.
Doubtless that is why she
wanders far from home, risk-
ing sunstroke to stare at old
tombs, asking Moslem ladies
impertinent questions, because
she has no man, the unfortu-
nate foreign one.”
She laughed: “I asked for
that, I suppose. Do you really
admire the Moslem way of
life? It’s not just an act?”
(Continued on page 44)


What's Wrong with It?
The R.S.L. in Victoria
By "MURRAY SWAGMAN"
A few months ago the Victorian
branch of the R.S.L. appointed
a retired naval commander as
organising secretary of a com-
mittee to try to. boost the State member-
ship. He was quoted as saying that the
peak membership had been reached in
1945 when 105,000 ex-servicemen were
on the League’s rolls. Since then the
numbers had declined, and “so many of
our members are elderly men.” But he
felt that the potential of new or regained
membership—young men of the Second
World War or the Korean War —ought
to be enough to double the present total.
It certainly should be. The big ques-
tion is why it hasn’t. The Victorian
branch gave its membership at December
31, 1958. as 69,058, which is 2.57 per
cent, of the population of the State. At
the same date the South Australian
membership was equivalent to 4.7 per
cent, of the population of South Aus-
tralia. Why the difference?
answer is that the old diehards have
for years bullied Victorian Diggers
with a majority - vote boosted by very
small sub-branches. A big factor in
the Victorian State executive’s unpopu-
larity, and the Victorian branch’s conse-
quent declining membership, is its
standover attitude on Anzac Day. Its
insistence on a horribly gloomy, plus
sly-grog, attitude to Anzac Day is much
more than the mere question of allowing
hotel-trading and sports-meetings on
Anzac Day. It is regarded by many
Diggers, and particularly 7 the Second
War men, who, with the passing of the
years, are now about a four-to-one
majority of Diggers, as a symbol of the
State executive’s determination to main-
tain its authority and force its views
tipon them. Hence their lack of support
for the Victorian branch.
When I was a delegate at the Victorian
State conference in 1937 a delegate for
a large suburban sub-branch of 1450
members complained that they had only
three votes —one for every 500 members
—and could be out-voted by four
country sub-branches with a member-
ship of 30 each.
By 1949, when I again attended an
annual conference, the basis of repre-
sentation had been altered to one delegate
for every 200 members. This may sound
fair enough, but there was a catch in it
—the number of delegates from any
sub-branch was limited to eight. The
suburb mentioned now had two sub-
branches, with 6400 members. It could
therefore command only 16 votes, while
small-town sub-branches still had a vote
for 20 to 30 members.
As a result of this anomaly of many
years’ standing there is a division between
the metropolitan and the country sub-
branches. Delegates from the small sub-
branches vote for a “closed” Anzac Day.
Then, when Anzac Day arrives, they
come to Melbourne in their hundreds
and book-in at the hotels as lodgers and
bona fide travellers, while Melbourne
Diggers get barrels of beer and hold sly-
grog parties all round the suburbs on a
day which the will of the State executive
has made “dry.” This has been going on
now for over 25 years.
Last year I wrote to “Mufti,” the
Victorian R.S.L. monthly paper, setting-
out the views of the disfranchised
majority as I had frequently heard them
expressed. I received a reply from State
secretary Joyce that “The State execu-
tive did not finance- a paper to express
outside opinions.”
I replied, quoting papers which run
open - opinion columns (including
“0.F.M.” in The Bulletin). Joyce
replied that the State executive and
“Mufti” were the guardians of the deci-
sions of the annual conference.
This statement was made ridiculous
by “Mufti” articles in June, 1958, and
July, 1958, in which Joyce wrote seven
columns each issue urging the next
annual conference to vote for his views!
Joyce is a permanent official of the
League and not an elected councillor.
An equivalent example in the field of
national politics would be for the secre-
tary of the Prime Minister’s Department
to write the Government’s policy-speech
and then order the A.B.C. to allot time
on the air to Government speakers only.
One would gather from the articles in
“Mufti” that in the Anzac Day contro-
versy Victoria is on one side of the
fence while N.S.W. and South Australia
are on the other. This is ridiculous. I
have been a member in both N.S.W. and
South Australia, and in my experience
neither officials nor members in those
States take any part at all in the Victorian
branch’s squabbles.
'T'heir general view is that hotels have
traded, sports-meetings have been
held and theatres have been open in their
States for a hundred years, and that it
is no part of the business of an ex-
servicemen’s organisation to interfere
with the long-established liberties of the
public.
Another view I have found widely
held in all three States is that the large
amount of energy that has been mis-
directed into the Anzac Day squabble
should have been spent on more sensible
and useful activities. If a country or
inter-State Digger visits Adelaide or
Sydney the R.S.L. offers him a club with
all the amenities of a modern residential
hotel. He gets nothing like that in
Melbourne.
A very large proportion of returned
men look at the Anzac Day controversy
not merely as a question of whether the
country Digger can go to Melbourne on
April 25 and monopolise the pubs and
force the Melbourne residents out into
sly-grog hide-outs but as a slight Variant
of the old “divide-and-rule” theory, and
until that matter is cleared up neither
a retired commander nor a boatload of
rear-admirals is likely to do much good.
Many years ago I suggested to a
number of R.S.L. officials that the whole
question of voting-power could be de-
cided by each delegate having as many
votes as he represented members. Then
the eight delegates from Caulfield Cen-
tral would have 4000 votes and the
country township with 20 members
would have 20 votes.
Needless to say I never got a hearing.
When the organising secretary was
appointed he spoke of starting a “cam-
paign door-knock.” I don’t know
whether this has eventuated yet, but I’m
all in favor of it—provided he makes his
first knock on the door of the State
executive room at No. 4 Collins Street,
and knocks loud enough and long enough
to wake-up the sleeping grandpops in-
side. When they begin to stir in their
sleep I hope he’ll remind them that this
is 1959, not 1929.
Slaughter
It sounded bad enough when the N.S.W.
Transport Department announced that it
was going to hack-down Figtree Avenue,
running between Sydney Public Library
and the Art Gallery, to widen the road
through the Domain ; but anybody who
goes up there now, when the slaughter
is actually taking place, will be appalled.
This is Sydney’s noblest avenue of
fig-trees. They have had no rival since,
a few years ago, the Transport Depart-
ment slaughtered the almost equally fine
trees along Anzac Parade to widen the
road for Randwick racegoers, who
promptly parked their cars all along the
widened road and made it narrower than
ever.
It takes a hundred years and more to
grow such superb trees. They provided
invaluable shade and shelter for lunch-
time sandwich-eaters, pigeons, flying-
foxes, Domain dossers and lovers. With
the doomed palms of Macquarie Street
nearby they gave Sydney much of its
character as a leafy, gracious, semi-
tropical city which at least in this one
corner, if nowhere else, could rival the
charm of Melbourne.
So, one by one, down they come,
and the place looks like a battlefield.
The worst of it is that it probably won’t
do the slightest bit of good in solving
Sydney’s insoluble traffic problem. There
are too many cars on the road; and
the only way you could really make
room for them is to lay the whole city
flat. It’s a wonder they don’t. —D.S.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for... . months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to
NAME ;
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£ I 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: I year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques ,
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin’" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Once again all Stradbroke
money was won by horses
trained away from Brisbane.
Grey Ghost, medium of heavy
backing in various centres,
was again heavily backed on
race-day—from 10 to 1 to 5
to I—starting1—starting second-favorite.
The grey got up in the final
stages of the seven furlongs
to land the big prize by a
short. head from the pace-
maker, New Zealander Second
Earl (12 to 1), with the 4-to-
-1 favorite, Fountainhead,
third.
• • • •
Grey Ghost was ridden with
fine judgment by former
Queenslander N. Sellwood,
who had not previously won
this rich sprint. Grey Ghost
won the Doomben Ten Thous-
and last winter, and may have
another shot at that attractive
sprint next month. His time
for the Stradbroke, 1.23 f, was
a race record.
• • • •
Grey Ghost cost 1250gns.
as a yearling, and the £7OOO
first-money for the Stradbroke
increased his total earnings to
more than £lB,OOO (10 wins).
Randwick trainer T. J.
Smith was another successful
visitor on the Q.T.C.’s opening
day bn Saturday. He won
with Caesar, in the w.-f.-a.
O’Shea Stakes, and Royal
Ensign, in the Second Wattle
Brae Handicap for two-year-
olds. The Queensland St.
Leger, however, proved, as
expected, a runaway affair for
the local, and odds-on, stayer
Grand Garry, ridden by Syd-
ney jockey Jack Thompson.
Grand Garry (who outclassed
his two opponents, Boxfull
and Buchan Ness) is a three-
year-old gelding by the Mel-
bourne Cup winner Dalray
from Lanky Lass by Highland
Laddie (imp.) from Perfect
Morn by All Black (imp.)
from Midilli by Tressady
(imp.), so he’s bred to stay.
Lanky Lass, who wasn’t raced,
is a half-sister to Basha
Felika, winner of the 1951
Caulfield Cup, while family-
lines also include Spellman
(Q.T.C. St. Leger). The Diver
(Doncaster) also figures in the
winner’s pedigree.
Gypseian, 50-to-l winner of
the First Wattle Brae Handi-
cap, is a Palm Vista (imp.)
colt from Gypsyana by Lo
Zingaro (imp.). Second divi-
sion winner Royal Ensign is
by Gabador (imp.) from
Eleuthera (imp.) by Blue Peter
from Theia by Hyperion.
Eleuthera was a smart . English
winner over sprint distances,
and was placed at 10 furlongs.
Royal Ensign is raced by Bris-
bane businessman Norman
Duce.
* * *
With most of the leading
Sydney jockeys away at ihe
Brisbane Cup meeting, appren-
tices had their chance at
Randwick, and on Saturday
landed, among them, four of
the seven races. Keith Smith
won on Flying Kurana and on
Valiant Prince, J. Coffey got
there on Fondu, and K.
Parkinson on Leukos. The
day also provided an oppor-
tunity for Perth jockey Peter
Knuckey, who was given the
mount on Pay Lady (from the
Jack Green stable) in the
opening race, the Two-year-
old Graduation Stakes for
fillies. He rode well, to bring
off a heavy course-plunge on
the half-sister of crack sprinter
Gold Stakes.
•.• • •
T. J. Smith has so many
horses in training that it’s
never surprising when he wins
races in two States on the same
afternoon. His Randwick
winner was New Flyer, in the
Juvenile Graduation Stakes
for colts and geldings. Odds-
on favorite Count Rego got
away well enough, but lost his
place and got so far back he
had no chance of catching the
speedy winner. Count Rego’s
run into third place, however,
was one to note. New Flyer
is by Newtown Wonder from
Sunshine Express by White
Ensign (imp.). A product of
the Woodlands Stud, Denman
(N.S.W.), he’s a brother to
the brilliant Dubbo, whose
wins included last year’s Oak-
leigh Plate.
• • •
From the Morrie Anderson
Rosehill stable, which has been
having a good run, Hasty
Belle, ridden by N. McGrow-
die, had an easy task in the
Randwick St. Aubins Maiden
for fillies and mares. Hasty
Belle is a three-year-old by
Edwardsii (imp.) from Goo-
rama, who’s by Parkwood
from Goorabul by Magpie
(imp.). It’s a good winning
family.
When rain began to fairly
pelt down on a bleak Rand-
wick, trainer Jack Daniels was
going to withdraw Flying
Kurana, but Jack left his run
too late, and his four-year-old
Newtown Wonder gelding
landed the £9OO cheque. Fly-
ing Kurana had won in dead
going as a two-year-old at
Canterbury Park, but since
then had shown his best form
on a sound track. Front Cover,
Prince Kerdieil and Squander
Lad, who followed him to the
winning-line in that order, have
all shown ability in heavy
going, but the wild conditions
hardly suited the tubed Prince
Kerdieil. Even so, he raced
generously for his third-money.
The state of the track was
shown in the time for the six
furlongs, 1.14 —a whole 44sec.
outside the best, which stands
to the credit of Mandingos.
Some that appreciated the
soft track were the New
Zealand-bred horses who filled
the places in the 10-furlongs
Ellesmere Handicap, though it
did take them 2.13} to run the
distance —12sec. slower than
the Randwick record. The
winner, Fondu, a four-year-
old by Tauloch, was a top New
Zealand winner, and is trained
by New Zealander B. Hayter,
a part-owner. Ridden by
apprentice J. Coffey, Fondu
beat Luck’s a Fortune (hav-
ing his first try at the distance,


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
7 S YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
and shaping in promising
fashion), with Caybros a
moderate third. Caybros is by
Ruthless (imp.), while Luck’s
a Fortune is a four-year-old
Lucky Bag (imp.) gelding.
Botany Highweight winner
Valiant Prince had previously
shown ability on heavy going,
the Valognes (imp.) gelding
having won in the mud at
Rosehill as a two-year-old in
February, 1956, with upwards
of half-a-dozen other successes
in the meantime, mostly in
heavy going. Apprentice K.
Smith got him away fast from
the starting-gates, and he
wasn’t headed.
Leukos has won two races,
both of them on rain-affected
tracks —and with nearly 12
months between ’em. In last
Saturday’s Balmoral Stakes
young Parkinson, who’s one of
Sydney’s best apprentices,
brought him from near the
rear of the field in the early
stages to be third for home.
The rest was easy, and he won
comfortably by two lengths.
Two-year-old progeny of
Osborne II (who in England
won 13 races at from six fur?
longs to 2\ miles) won each
division of the Novice for that
age-group at the Canterbury
Park midweek fixture.
Osborne’s own wins included
the Doncaster Cup (2| miles,
with 9.6) and the Goodwood
Stakes (2m. 3f., with a top-
weight 9.7). Of these promis-
ing youngsters of his, Kiopana,
winner of the opening Canter-
bury race, is a colt from
Virtue by Dark Lover (imp.)
from Fidelity by Constant Son
(imp.). Virtue is a half-sister
to Crusader (A.J.C. Anniver-
sary Handicap). Prince
Osborne, winner of the second
division, is from Pen Trout,
who was got by Pentheus from
Pearl Legion by Legionnaire
(imp.).
* * *
At Flemington
Since the V.R.C. originated
the event in 1956 the mile Pro-
vincial Plate has become more
popular each year. On Satur-
day it had to be run in three
divisions, extending the pro-
gramme to a mammoth 10
races. Conditions of the Plate
state that it is for three-year-
olds and over who have started
at least four times outside a
radius of 50 miles of the
G.P.O. of the capital city of
any State within 12 months of
the date of entry, and who
have not won a metropolitan
race within two years of the
same date ; starters to carry a
weight fixed according to age
and sex.
Of the three Plate winners,
most promising looked to be
the three-year-old gelding
Hiati, who led from go to whoa
in the third heat. He is by
MacArthur (whose stock stay
so well) from the Law Maker
dam Aberfeldie. A big, strong
youngster, Hiati has won five
races. He was bred by part-
owner R. C. Hinton, at Streat-
ham.
• • • •
Winner of the first heat of
the Plate was the four-year-
old chestnut mare Masako,
raced by a brother and sister
combination, J. McCubbin
and Mrs. N. Edwards. By
Enchantor from Parwan, the
mare is a full-sister to useful
galloper Kabarra. Toorak
photographer K. G. Granger
and his wife race Son o’
France, a son of Djafar out
of Gay Ra. The winner, a
four-year-old gelding, com-
pleted a hat-trick.
In the muddy conditions, the
mile of the Rothsay Handicap
(two divisions) proved a tough
test of stamina for the two-
year-olds. Both heats went to
maiden performers. Smoke
Flare, winner of the first
division, had been placed at
both previous starts. A chest-
nut gelding by Smokey Eyes
from Verey Light, he was bred
by his owners, garage pro-
prietors H. O. and C. E. All-
sop. Smokey Eyes was a good
performer in England, winning
races in all years from two
to five. He was not a distance
horse, but his stock in Aus-
tralia show appreciation of
heavy conditions, which helps
them to win at up to a mile.
Maori Prince’s win in the
second Rothsay was a series of
firsts. It was a first win for
the N.Z.-bred gelding (he is
by Sabaean from Penny), first
win for his owner, Shepparton
retired farmer J. B. Hicks, and
first Flemington success for
trainer F. W. Kernaghan, who
has been in the game for 20
years.
• • • •
The Hopetoun Steeple was
the type of racing that makes
jumping-events so popular in
Melbourne, the hunter Gangetic
giving an exhilarating display
of fencing out in front until
the last jump, where he was
tackled first by Corumba and
then by the favorite, Tranquil
Glow. Gangetic refused to give
in until the last little bit; then,
just when Tranquil Glow
seemed safely home, Irish Sun
flashed down the outside. The
photo showed Tranquil Glow
a head in front of Irish Sun,
half-a-head to Gangetic. It is
hard to separate the merits of
Tranquil Glow and Irish Sun’s
performances from a National
point of view. The winner
opened up a cut on his leg
during the race, which adds
merit to his gameness, while
the second horse came from
well back at the straight-
entrance. Both are good. As
was forecast here at the start of
the jumping-season, this is
proving a vintage year for
fencers.
Resotto, who won last year’s
Grand National Hurdle, was
beaten in the York Hurdle,
but he put up a remarkable
performance in defeat. Com-
ing down the straight the first
time round Resotto cleared
the hurdle in front of the
stand safely, but lost his foot-
ing on landing, and for a
moment was spreadeagled on
the turf. Jockey F. W. Ander-
son somehow retained his
irons, and Resotto hoisted him-
self up and chased after the
field. He went to such pur-
pose that at the finish he was
only two-and-a-half lengths
behind the winner, Sir Juan.
It was a performance to sug-
gest he could win a second
National. The win was a first
jumping-success for Sir Juan,
a four-year-old gelding by
Nebris from Duenna ; he’s on
the 9.0 minimum in the
National.
The Madden brothers —Jack,
who is on the V.R.C. com-
mittee, and Geoff, a Moonee
Valley committeeman —have
raced a number of horses with
varying success, but one of the
most disappointing of them
has been Damocles, who was
selected for them by “Scobie”
Breasley in England. He had
won there, but failed to find
his form here, until Saturday,
when he at last won a race,
clearing right away in the
straight-six Royal Handicap.
It left the impression that he’s
becoming acclimatised, and if
that is so, Saturday’s win won’t
be his last.
It is a far cry from some
of the fields Baron Boissier has
beaten (he has a Hotham
Handicap, an Alister Clark
Stakes and a Stephen Stakes
in his record) to the opposi-
tion he met in the Sandring-
ham Handicap. However, the
Baron is now aged, and must
be placed where he has win-
ning prospects. He took the
lead early in the Sandringham,
and defied all attempts to run
him down. Riverina jockey
Barry McDonald handled him
just about perfectly.
Bookmakers have learnt to
be very wary of the heavy
plunges associated with most
of Top Fred’s wins, and they
did some nervous knob-
twiddling during the betting
on the Buckingham Handicap
at Flemington. The gelding’s
price oscillated like a metro-
nome before he finally went
out a 3-to-l favorite. But it
seems that Top Fred’s best
days are well behind him ; he
finished a weak fifth. Render
won the event, improving a lot
on recent running to score
narrowly from proved mud-
runner Malarno.
Weights are out for the
Nationals. Not surprisingly,
Pedro’s Pride has the maxi-
mum (12.7) in the Steeple.
The champion mare, if she
runs, will attempt this year’s
National with no more than
one jumping-race under her
belt. She does not need much
work, but it is of more import-
ance to know whether her sus-
pect leg will stand-up. Fordell
(11.3) heads the Hurdle
weights, more as a penalty for
his flat-form than his jumping
ability. To have a couple of
picks at this early stage, this
writer likes Resotto and
Goonawindi for the Hurdle;
Tranquil Glow, Irish Sun and
Pedro’s Pride for the second
leg.
* * *
All Lions
On a soggy Sydney Sports
Ground the British Isles ran all
over Australia, particularly - in
the second half, to win the
second Rugby Union Test 24-3
—they’d also won the first, in


start the dau right!
.Jp|.-
t
eTuL®^
*gm
Brisbane, 17-6. All Australia’s
points in both Tests came from
penalty-goals by . winger
Donald, though he missed easy
attempts. Surprising that Fen-
wicke didn’t take a kick for
goal himself.
When N.S.W. beat British
Isles 18-14 a fortnight ago the
visitors played a man short
most of the game, and also
hadn’t found their land-legs.
On Saturday Australia got
first points on the board about
12min. after the start, with
Donald’s penalty, after he had
missed two comparatively easy
kicks, as had Lions’ kicker,
Hewitt. A few minutes later
the Lions went to the front
with a lovely converted try.
Five-eighth Risman broke
through a couple of defenders
and kicked, and the ball Was
gathered by winger Jackson,
who flicked a pass back inside
to centre Price, who went over.
Hewitt converted, but then
missed his third penalty-goal,
as did Donald soon after ; half-
time score, 5-3.
In the second half the Lions
ran riot, throwing the heavy
ball all over the place, reversing
the play quickly from one. wing
to the other. The Australians,
too slow both back and for-
ward, had no answer. (Actually
Australia won its share of the
the ball from scrums and line-
outs, but the inside backs made
little use of it.)
Three tries came up in the
first lOmin. After a backline
movement winger Jackson
again reverse-passed in to Price,
who scored his second try.
Hewitt converted. Then came
a beautiful individual effort by
Risman, who side-stepped
neatly and “sold” three
dummies before crossing wide-
out. Hooker Dawson then
went over from a lineout, for
the Lions to lead 16-3.
Irish winger O’Reilly scored
in the corner, forcing his way
over though held by two
defenders, for the Lions’ fifth
and last try. Fullback Scot-
land, who has a strange
diagonal run in to kick, con-
verted, besides kicking a fine
penalty-goal a few minutes
later.
About the only time Aus-
tralia looked at all like scoring
was just near the end, when
breakaway Thornett broke
away on a 25yds. run, with full-
back Lenehan in support —but
Lenehan . was bundled into
touch near the line.
“Veryl”: The Rugby Union
Test between Australia and the
British Isles in Sydney in 1950
was won easily by the visitors,
but at least two Australians
were picked for that game on
past performance rather than
on current rorm. One was
centre Walker, the Sheffield
Shield cricketer ; the other was
winger Tonkin. Both naturally
were outclassed, to the accom-
paniment of raucous advice
from the Hill. Walker was told
to “stick to cricket,” while
Tonkin, married the morning
of the game, was advised to
get off the field and let his wife
have a go, as she couldn't
possibly do any worse. It was
both players’ farewell to big
football.
* * *
In the mud and the rain
Australia beat N.Z. 9-8 in the
first Rugby League Test at the
S.C.G. The first half saw the
better football, with the lead
seesawing back and forth ; in
fact, all the points came in the
first half. N.Z. scored two
tries to one, but Australian
captain Carlson kicked three
goals from three attempts,
while N.Z. centre Eastlake
raised the flags only once from
six attempts; he missed an
easy kick in the second half.
Carlson’s tactics late in the
game, of twice taking a tap-
penalty and keeping possession
rather than kicking for goal in
easy distance and risking an
N.Z. breakthrough for a mis-
kick, proved sound.
* * *
Two Victorian football-
teams (Australian Rules) have
been picked to play this Satur-
day—No. 1 team meets W.A.
in Melbourne, No. 2 opposes
Tasmania at Devonport (Tas.).
They both look mighty strong
combinations. Essendon centre-
man Jack Clarke is to lead the
first side, while Fitzroy’s robust
ruckman Alan Gale skippers
the second. Five players new
to State selection are in the
team against W.A. as first
selected —19-year-old Essendon
full-forward Ron Evans, St.
Kilda full-back Verdun Howell
(the only first-year player
among the five), tall Carlton
ruckman Graham Donaldson,
Fitzroy’s nippy wingman lan
Aston and fair-haired St. Kilda
“iron man” Eric Guy. An
interesting selection in No. 2
team is young Footscray full-
forward Ray Baxter, who, in
his first game with the firsts
last season, kicked three goals
with three kicks in his first
three-minutes on the field.
* * *
The tournament-director of
the International Golf Asso-
ciation, Fred Corcoran, on a
flying visit from the U.S., said
that Royal Melbourne, on
which the 1959 International
Golf Trophy and Canada Cup
matches are to be played in
November, was a true cham-
pionship course, equal to, or
better than, the courses in
other countries on which the
six previous Canada Cup
tournaments had been held.
Corcoran said he expected the
course to be a real test to visit-
ing players. In this year’s
Canada Cup there will be
players from 34 nations, the
greatest number of countries
yet to compete.
* * *
“Mossie”: The Mosman
Park “under-16’s” in Westra-
lian football have, at time of
writing, the great percentage of
1263, having scored 123 goals
141 beninds to 9.14 against
them. They have kicked this
tally in seven games, -with 15-
minute quarters and no “time
on.” Their coach is Mosman’s
amateur star “Tup” Wilkinson,
who once kicked 396 goals in
three seasons.
* * *
“Sutha”: Has a legitimately
k.o.’d boxer ever before been
crowned winner? In a bout
in Chatham (Eng.) the ref. had
the possibly unique experi-
ence of counting-out both pugs
at the one time, both having
thrown k.o. punches together.
The ref., however, raised in
triumph the hand of Jack
Brincate, who had been lead-
ing on points. Or would a
draw have been a more fitting
decision ?
* * *
Last week’s stoush: In
Sydney on Monday night Irish
welter Mike Leahy easily out-
pointed over 12 rounds British
Empire welter champion
George Barnes. Barnet has
now been clearly outpointed
in his last three fights, by
Johnny Van Rensburg last
October and by Joe N’Gidi in
April, and, great fighter as he
was, it looks as if he has hung
around too long. In Mel-
bourne on Friday night Aus-
tralian middleweight cham-
pion Clive Stewart beat Welsh-
man Freddie Cross on a t.k.o.
in the seventh round of a
12-round fight; Stewart had a
points decision over Cross in
Brisbane on May 1.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.K.-RUSSIA TRADE PACT
"C ditorial comment on the
signing in Moscow of the
trade-pact between Britain and
Russia:
“Yorkshire Post”: “It is
pleasant in these days to hear
of East-West negotiations
which not only succeed but ex-
ceed expectations. This is the
happy result of the visit to
Moscow by Sir David Eccles,
the President of the Board of
Trade. The agreement which
he signed in the Soviet capital
envisages an increase in Anglo-
Russian trade by about one-
third.
“That is a very considerable
jump. True, it means a one-
third increase on a figure which
did not weigh very heavily in
the total of British (or, for
that matter, Soviet) foreign
trade ; but if we increased our
turnover with other countries
by a like amount we should be
launched upon a boom that we
could scarely hope to keep
pace with.”
* * *
E d i n burg h “Scotsman” :
“Much will depend on how it
[the pact] operates in practice.
The Russians would be well
advised to pay heed to the
reasons for the suspicions and
fears in this country about
their motives. Thus it seems
that the value of the goods the
Soviet Government wish to
buy from us will greatly exceed
the earnings from Russian
exports to Britain. This means
that they will have to obtain
credit.
“The Soviet rulers should
realise the importance of keep-
ing this within reasonable pro-
portions. Similarly there is a
fear that the imports they
mainly desire are not goods to
raise the standard of living of
the Russian people but goods
to increase the economic and
military might of the Com-
munist bloc. The pact will not
serve the purpose Sir David
Eccles has in mind if that fear
turns out to be justified.”
* * *
London “Financial Times” :
“Apart from the comparatively
small exchange of consumer-
goods foreseen in the agree-
ment, Russia should be able to
step-up her traditional raw-
material exports to this country.
She has been*~granted a ‘sub-
stantial’ quota for machinery,
though this will not be easy to
sell on the British market in the
initial stages. And she has been
told that normal E.C.G.D.
facilities will be available for
some capital-goods purchases
in Britain.
“Russia will thus have access
to commercial credits in this
country, while the British
Government will at the same
time retain control over the
amount of credit which is to
be extended. At the same time,
the mission seems to have made
it clear to the Russians that
they could not expect to get
more sterling by sudden large
sales of such items as tin and
aluminium at the expense of
Commonwealth suppliers.
“A sense of realism has been
apparent throughout the nego-
tiations, and Sir David Eccles,
while a consider-
able increase in trade, was
careful not to mention too
many figures.”
Bradford “Wool Record”:
“Before the details are disclosed
it is not possible to say exactly
what benefit our consumer-
goods industries are likely to
derive from the agreement;
indeed, even when they are
known it is probable that the
real value will only become
apparent when the Russians’
intentions are put to the test
by British businessmen.
“In the meantime there is
better hope than ever before
of an expansion of trade
between Russia and ourselves,
and this has a significance far
beyond monetary symbols. The
Russian people have more
than once in recent years
displayed great enthusiasm for
British wool cloth and apparel,
and there is no doubt that if
they could get their hands on
it plenty of business could be
done. The Soviet leaders
appear to have decided that the
revolutionary spirit does not
necessarily wither in the
presence of some of the graces
of life, such as fine clothes and
good grooming. In cultivating
the arts of peace let us help
them all we can, as an industry
and a nation.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” :
“The reason for welcoming the
agreement is not so much eco-
nomic as political. But it may
be shown in the wrong light.
That Soviet cars may be sold in
this country matters little: we
are not short of cars and, any-
how, few of these are likely to
come. But, as with the sale of
British aircraft-aids to Russia,
a modest transaction can be
made to irritate our friends if
we act as though it was a
momentous result of British
initiative.
“What does matter is the
chance of sending Western
consumer-goods—even though
few at first —to people who are
thirsting for them. Now that
the Soviet Government is begin-
ning to let the people have a
little more of what they want,
Western goods could help at
once to. satisfy some of their
wants and to keep the quality
of Soviet goods up to the mark.
This, after all, is what American
consumer-goods have done in
many parts of the free world:
they have spurred people to
new desires and new efforts.
“In the long-run Soviet
imports of other things besides
the capital-goods required by
the plan could help to bridge
the gap between the ‘world
markets’ and make trade
between Russia and the West
a matter of steady mutual
benefit rather than intermittent
mutual convenience.”
LATEST PUPIL—SINGAPORE.
By Cummings, in London “Daily Express."
We teach them how to
steer it .. .
We teach them how to
brake . . .
And how to reverse . . %
So when they’ve learnt all about it we
leave them in entire control!
Signals Off the Moon
Commenting on Professor
Bernard Lovell’s success-
ful “bouncing” of radio-signals
off the moon from the Jodrell
Bank (U.K.) radio-telescope to
a U.S. Air Force station near
Boston, London “Economist”
notes that “the implications of
this experiment for radio- and
telephone-communication over
long distances are immense”:
“Radio-communication is at
all times cheaper than the lay-
ing of long-distance and
a radio-signal of a frequency
high enough to penetrate
through the reflecting layers of
the atmosphere to reach the
moon—2oo megacycles was
used for the experiment—
should be completely free from
the fading, the distortions and
the interference that make
normal radio-communication
unreliable and sometimes im-
possible.
“The only special equipment
required is a radio-telescope at
either end of the circuit, but
it need not be a giant the size
of Jodrell Bank, which
measures 250 ft. across. Pro-
fessor Lovell thinks that the
80ft. ‘dish’ being used by the
American Air Force to receive


WHY SETTLE FOR A SMALL CAR >
HOLDEN GIVES
MUCH MORE VALUE^.
Perhaps you believe a small car will be more economical. Before you
decide compare all the advantages of Hoiden. Consider Holden’s
extra value in terms of motoring enjoyment, luxury, pride of possession and
modern styling. Take everything into account not just price on the road,
but running costs, repair bills and resale value as well. You’ll find you can own
a new, four door, six cylinder Holden for as little as the average small car.
HERE’S WHY HOLDEN RESALE
VALUE SAVES YOU MONEY
Comparing prices, buying a small
four cylinder car (8 to 14 h.p.) will
involve you in lower capital outlay
than a new Holden. But the impor-
tant thing is to estimate what you’ll
get back for your car when you sell it.
From used car advertisements you
will see that the small car drops in
value more rapidly than a Holden.
Holden’s high resale value saves you
big money on depreciation. In fact,
the savings can wipe out all the
economies that you might expect to
get from a small car.
HERE’S HOW ECONOMICAL
HOLDEN IS ON PETROL
Assuming you run up about 5,000
miles a year. Now a small car might
give you around 40 m.p.g. about
£24 a year for petrol. Yet Holden,
on top of all its other advantages,
would cost you only about £lO extra
for petrol each year.
HERE’S WHY HOLDEN SAVES
YOU MONEY ON REPAIRS
Small cars usually have small parts
in high revving, hard working small
engines . . . and so, there’s more like-
lihood of wear. On the other hand,
Holden has a robust six cylinder
engine that’s famous for mile-in mile-
out reliability.
With a Holden, too, you’ll pay less
for genuine parts and you’ll get them
wherever you drive, for Australia is
ringed with Holden Dealers to give
you efficient, low cost service.
HERE'S WHY THERE'S MORE
ENJOYMENT DRIVING HOLDEN
Tired of seeing Holdens pass you on
hills? In top gear, too, you’ll have
noticed. Frustrated with the lack of
room inside and the limited luggage
space you get in most small cars?
Why not change all that drive a
new Holden.
BE OUR GUEST
DRIVE HOLDEN NOW
Why not contact your Holden Dealer
now and arrange to test a new
Holden? Ask about the convenient
GMAC Hire Purchase Plan. The
more you go into it the more you’ll
realise that owning a new Holden
really costs you no more than a
small car and there’s more room,
more comfort, more vision, more
motoring fun for you and your
family when you drive a Holden.
REGD. ‘
HOLDEN - AUSTRALIA'S OWN CAR
from £BB5 plus tax
Sse your Holden Dealer today!
E 23»
his signals would be quite
large enough for routine use.
“Those who think that outer
space is merely a playground
for academic scientists might
ponder the fact that the
initiative for the experiments
came from a radio-manufac-
turer Pye, Limited which
was sufficiently intrigued by
the sound of Professor Lovell
bouncing his own voice off the
moon during last autumn’s
8.8. C. Reith lectures to suspect
that it had distinct commercial
possibilities.
“The equipment used for
the present series of experi-
ments was ordinary commercial
apparatus. Now that the idea
has been proved feasible,
opening-up the prospect of
direct and interference-free
radio and telephone links
between points where it is not
practical to lay cables or pro-
vide an adequate number of
channels, the next step will be
experiments with special aerials
to improve the quality of the
voice-transmission.”
Lysenko Correct?
'T'hose Western geneticists
who for a long time have
regarded Soviet agronomist
Lysenko as a heretic wer e
lately presented with evidence
that seems to some extent to
support his theories.
The evidence, as reported by
Maurice Goldsmith in London
“Spectator,” came from Dr.
Alan Durrant, an agricultural
botanist at the Institute of
Rural Science at Aberystwyth
(Wales), in the form of a
Royal Society exhibit entitled
“Transmission from parent to
offspring of ‘environmentally
induced changes in flax.”
“The differences between the
East and the West in genetics,”
writes Goldsmith, “are based
upon the mechanism of in-
heritance” :
“Western geneticists stand
squarely on Mendelism, believ-
ing that each individual has a
fixed genetic constitution which
cannot be altered by changes
in his environment (apart from
haphazard mutation—which is
generally a bad thing). The
individual’s genetic make-up is
determined by the chromo-
somes which carry the genes,
the units of inheritance. They
cannot be seen, but all Western
geneticists accept their exist-
ence.
“Eastern geneticists base
themselves on Lysenkoism.
They accept the existence of
chromosomes, but do not
believe they play a key part
in heredity. The individual can
acquire characteristics from his
environment which can be
transmitted to the offspring
from generation to generation.
“Dr. Durrant assures me
that he has no doubt that
Lysenkoists concede the sound-
ness d>f the chromosome theory
of inheritance. But what
interests him is that modern
genetics accepts the fact that
there are factors in the
cytoplasm (that is, the material
surrounding the nucleus in the
cell) which could support
Lysenko’s work.
“For example, by tempera-
ture treatment the Russian has
turned a line of winter-wheat
into spring-wheat, altering the
flowering-time or winter hardi-
ness of varieties by condition-
ing them for one or more
generations in certain environ-
ments.
“If Lysenko is right, then
evolution could be explained
without bringing in natural
selection. Environment would
be the key; soil-conditions,
say, or climate. This viewpoint,
of course, fits well with Marxist
philosophical thought too
well, its Western opponents
alleged. But for the past six
years, Dr. Durrant has been
growing specimens of flax, and
he has found that charac-
teristics acquired during the
life of a plant seem to be in-
herited by plants grown from
its seed.
“Dr. Durrant used seeds
derived from a stock bred in


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jackson
O'SUlUVAJw .
pTY - tTa
TRAOrW*»MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
••JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Northern Ireland to grow
groups of flax-plants in
different environments, which
he obtained by treating the
soil with differing amounts of
inorganic fertilisers, such as
nitrogen, phosphorus and
potassium.
“As could be expected, in
some cases plants were pro-
duced which were much larger
than plants which received no
treatment. But —and here the
puzzlement began when the
seeds from these larger plants
were grown without fertiliser-
treatment it was found that
the size was carried on unto the
fourth generation.
“In other words, environ-
mentally acquired character-
istics appear to have been in-
herited and passed on. It
might therefore be reasonable
to infer that genetic changes of
a permanent kind have been
produced/
“Dr. Durrant’s view is that
a change produced by the
environment can be transmitted
through successive generations;
and that this may be presumed
to be an example of the
inheritance of an acquired
character.
“But this does not lead him
to accept Lysenkoism. The
results do not, he feels, disturb
the foundation nor the struc-
ture of Western genetics. But
they do pose some interesting
questions. There seem to be
factors responsible for in-
heritance other, than chromo-
somes with genes: may it not
be that the nucleus of the cell
is responsible, or a change in
the equilibrium between the
cytoplasm and the nucleus? If
so, it may be possible to
modify the chromosomes
during growth much more
easily than we had thought.”
After noting that certain
experiments in the U.S. on peas
and locusts tend to support
Dr. Durrant’s views, Gold-
smith concludes:
“We are clearly at the begin-
ning of something startling.
But the outcome is still un-
certain : whether Dr. Durrant
has widened the rift between
Eastern and Western genetics,
or narrowed it, remains to be
seen.”
Religion in China
T ondon “Time and Tide”
reports “an intensified
drive by Peking against
religion”:
“Throughout China the
press is attacking Buddhism,
Islam and Christianity. Lamas
and imams are being accused
of ‘gross immorality and ex-
ploitation of the masses,’ of
‘compelling ignorant children
to study Islamic doctrine and
of trying to prevent working
people from joining the Com-
munist party.’
“As well as being submitted
to this national smear-
campaign, lamas, imams and
priests are being given ‘Socialist
education’ by having to earn
a living through their own
labor. In other words, many
of them have been sent to
‘corrective labor-camps.’ Con-
fucian ancestor-worship has
been dealt with simply and
firmly. Tombs have been
levelled and the bones of the
ancestors used as fertiliser.
From now on common graves
are the order of the day.
“At the root of this religious
persecution is the rising
resistance which is being
encountered by Peking, par-
ticularly amongst minority
groups. The ‘Nationalities
Review’ of March 6 admits
that Tibetans in the Tsinghai
province of China had revolted
and had, with the help of their
London “News Chronicle.”
“THE CAMEL, THE CAMEL! WE MUST SAVE
THE CAMEL!"
Communist leaders, tried to
set-up an independent State
‘openly clamoring for the
removal of the Chinese from
the province.’
“Although the leaders of the
revolt were ousted from the
party ‘the miasma spread by
the nationalists has not been
entirely cleared out. 1 Peking
has also admitted that there
has been fighting in the western
provinces of Szechwan and
Kansu, and that in Tibet itself
troop - reinforcements have
been rushed to the south-
eastern area.
“At the same time the spec-
tacular trade-drive in Asia
started by China last year has
faded away. Many contracts
have been cancelled, and even
trade with Hong Kong has
slumped to the lowest level
since 1955. The communes
programme has also had to be
severely modified because of
popular resistance, particularly
among the women. Last year a
leading Chinese Communist
said that the Communist
party and the Chinese family
could not both survive. It
would now appear that the
Chinese family is proving hard
to destroy, and this fact is
part of the reason why China’s
‘great leap forward’ has now
become a limp.”
Khrushchev's
"Open Door"
■yURiTiNG in London “Sunday
Times” after a visit to
Moscow with a. British Coun-
cil delegation, Sir Fitzroy
Maclean, Bt., M.P., notes
that, “in a sense, perhaps the
most important single change
in Soviet policy during the six
years which have passed since
Stalin’s death has been his
successor’s decision to relax to
a limited extent the almost
total ban hitherto imposed on
contacts between the Soviet
Union and the outside world.”
Stalin’s reason for imposing
the ban, Sir Fitzroy continues,
was “a deep-seated and readily
comprehensible feeling of in-
security and inadequacy, a
feeling that the Soviet system
could not as yet safely stand
up to comparison with the
capitalist system.”
Conversely, though Khrush-
chev’s motives for relaxing the
ban were no doubt mixed, his
basic reason was, “in all
probability, a new feeling of


WHY SUFFER FROM...
RHEUMATISM
or ARTHRITIS
THIS WILL INTEREST YOU
When Mr. R. A. Stratton was given an old Indian Formula
for the relief of Rheumatic complaints some 30 years ago he had
no idea that one day he would be sending the Powder round the
world to relieve sufferers. “Naturally as a strong, robust youth, I
thought little about it at the time,” said Mr. Stratton, “but in
later years I became a chronic Arthritis sufferer myself, so I
had the Formula made up by a Chemist and took a course of the
Powder for some months, which effected a complete cure.
“I naturally sympathised with anyone else who had been similarly
afflicted, so I decided to have the Powder prepared in commercial
quantities so I could help the numerous sufferers from Rheumatism
and Arthritis and I must confess the results have been amazing’’
When the Company first started
selling the Powder its sales were
limited to this State, but as a
result of its success it was quickly
acclaimed a WORLD DISCOVERY
and its fame spread throughout
the Commonwealth until we now
have a clientele of over 50,000 and
have established an enviable repu-
tation for our successful treatment
of all types of Rheumatism and
Arthritis.
People who have been almost
crippled with hands, feet, and
joints can now use their limbs with
perfect freedom from pain, and
cases have been reported where
men are back at work as a result
of our wonderful Treatment, and
note —this has been accomplished
by the use of only one teaspoonful
of powder daily—nothing could be
simpler.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC and
ARTHRITIS POWDER contains
no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart, and is a natural remedy
for all complaints of the Rheumatic
Group.
It will further assist to improve
your health and keep you fit. Suf-
ferers who have had Cortizone,
Gold Injections and Ray Treatment
—all alike have found relief by our
proven methods of which we are
justly proud. Thousands have
found freedom from suffering—■
WHY NOT YOU?
A . . . . FOUR WEEKS SUPPLY CARTON, Instruction Pamphlet
TREATMENT ADVICE and a SPECIAL CONCESSION RATE
VOUCHER if your complaint needs further treatment .... costs
only £1 POST FREE. Send to:
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER LTD..
7 HOWARD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
confidence, a conviction that
the balance had changed in
favor of the Soviet Union, that
the Soviet system was now far
better able to withstand com-
parison with other systems and
other ways of life.”
But perhaps the most
important factor of all was a
new one: “the emergence over
the years of a new intelligent-
sia, a new upper-class, with a
higher standard of education,
more self-assurance, greater
critical faculties and a strong
desire for information, both
technical and general, about
the world at large, an upper-
class that could not be bam-
boozled or bottled-up in-
definitely.
“To any student of history,
of Russian history in particu-
lar, the boldness of Mr.
Khrushchev’s gamble must at
once be apparent. There could
be no more dangerous or more
delicate task than the gradual
modification and liberalisation
of a dictatorship, especially
when the dictatorship is one of
such an extreme character. In
Russian history it has always
been the liberal and Constitu-
tionally-minded Tsars who
have come to sticky ends.
“But Khrushchev has some
very strong cards in his hand:
first, his own skill, dynamism
and, when need be, utter ruth-
lessness, and, secondly, the
fact that the new ruling-class
are precisely the people who
have the strongest vested
interest in the continuance of
the regime.
“Revolutions in Russia have
traditionally been imposed
from above and, so long as
the standard of living of the
Upper Six Million goes on
improving at its present rate,
it is unlikely that they will be
tempted to use their new privi-
leges to disturb the status quo.
What is more likely is a
gradual change in the character
of the regime, a slow evolu-
tion towards something less
excessive, less totalitarian.
“Slender though they may
be, it is to this gradual pro-
cess of evolution that we must
pin our hopes.”
The West, Sir Fitzroy
contends, ought to take full
advantage of this new Russian
willingness to make more and
more outside contacts. “Pro-
vided we keep our heads,” he
says, such contacts can do us
no harm, and any effect they
might have on the Russians
“must surely be for the
better” :
“It may very well be, of
course, that Khrushchev’s
gamble will come-off. It is
even conceivable that in time
the Russians will achieve their
avowed aim of catching-up
materially with the Americans.
“But that again, surely, is an
eventuality that we should
view with pleasure rather than
alarm. For, human-nature
being what it is, the Russians
would probably become so
transformed in the process as
to be in the end practically
indistinguishable from their
American rivals and, therefore,
from the point of view of the
West, a good deal easier to live
with.”
U.K. Exports
A London “Financial Times”
correspondent having
reported a “substantial fall” in
Australian imports of electrical
and other machinery from the
U.K., F. A. B. Jones, of
Sussex, in a letter to the same
paper, remarks that this news
“shows how very lax and un-
realistic certain sections of our
industry have become”:
“In a greatly changed and
more highly competitive world
Britain can, in fact, only afford
preferences for working as hard
in factories and sales fields as
the U.S.A., Germany, Japan,
and other jealous, eager
nations are doing.
“One may therefore ask how
many of our machinery, textile
and other manufacturers who
are surrendering Britain’s over-
seas ' trading-positions can say
that their seniors personally
have worked in Australia on
market-investigation and the
setting-up of appropriate
marketing-arrangements there.
Alternatively, how many are
defeatist through the reduction
of preferences (which our
foreign competitors have never
enjoyed), are daunted by
distance, or lacking in a
decisive approach to the
problem?
“Australia is young, eager,
ambitious and determined.
Cannot this be impressed on
the old and timid among our
[Britain’s] masters, and the
facts of world-trade life
rammed home to our men.
especially those trade-unionists
who are letting lightning strike
at their competitive power in
the world?
“If our share of [British]
Commonwealth and world
trade continues to decline, and
with it our buying-power in a
world bent on expansion, we
will come bitterly to regret it.
Post-mortems and inquests can
have no interest, only cynical
amusement, for those working
hard and efficiently to displace
us in traditional and other
markets.”
Various Voices
17.S'. Secretary of State
Herter ; “Beyond the present
[Berlin] crisis looms a long
period of competition between
the free world and the Com-
munist bloc. If war is to be
contained in this nuclear era,
the great Powers will have to
exercise restraint in dealing
with the crises spontaneously
generated by the tides of
change and growth now surg-
ing throughout the world.”
Lord Hailsham: “Nationali-
sation began as a crusade. It
continued as a racket. It is
becoming an embarrassment.
When the time comes that it
is made a liability, the fight
will be over.”
M. Spaak, Nato Secretary-
General: “To disarm unilater-
ally is to permit the Commu-
nists, the day they wish it, to
be masters of the w'orld: it
would be tantamount to the ab-
dication of the Western world ;
it would justify the Commu-
nists’ belief in our decadence.
The ten years of life of the
Atlantic Alliance have already
shown that whenever the free
world has found itself at prac-
tical grips with the U.S.S.R.
it has been able to present a
united front.”
Italian Ambassador to West
Germany, Pietro Quaroni :
“Much talk is heard now about
Europe as a ‘third Power.’ As
long as one talks about the
European nations of today one
cannot speak of a ‘third Power’
A nation which is no Power,
which is only a military zero,
cannot be a third Power, nor
even a fourth or fifth Power.
It is only a weakness, a
vacuum. ‘Third Power’ is only
a nice-sounding phrase to
describe a state of weaponless
neutrality. But neutrality with-
out arms is no policy. It is
the policy of a cork which
bobs upon the water. It is not
a policy to drop on your knees
and fold your hands and say
to the adversaries who surround
you: ‘Please leave me in peace,
because I am so good and so
docile.’ If my memory is
correct, the last State to follow
such a policy was Venice in the
days of Napoleon. The result
was not exactly encouraging.”


Between
Ourselves
W
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week. v
“The Moslem’s attitude to
women seems sensible. More
sensible, anyway, than the
American’s.”
She looked at him thought-
fully: “And while you’re pur-
suing your polygamous ideals,
history is being made right
under your nose.”
“Who am I to interfere with
history?”
He offered her a cigarette,
lit one himself. They smoked
silently.
“Kennedy,” she said sud-
denly. “Come with me to
Sulat.”
“Eh?” He was startled.
She leaned forward:
“Can’t you see what an oppor-
tunity it would be? You’re
flat, aren’t you? You haven’t
said so, but I know. I can
rake up enough for our ex-
penses . . .”
“I’m not setting up as a
gigolo,” Kennedy said stiffly.
She waved an impatient
cigarette: “Oh, stop trying to
be funny ! Can’t you see what
a break it would be, for both
of us? You know the country,
Ave’d get through somehow. A
world scoop! We’d be in the
money ; we’d split fifty-fifty.
Isn’t it better than hanging
around Beirut, watching your
money melt away? Better
than doctoring sick horses and
posing as a lady-killer?”
“I like horses,” Kennedy
said. “And ladies.” He looked
at her curiously. “Wouldn’t
you be frightened I don’t
mean of having your throat
cut —but of your virtue, with
an immoral character like
me?”
“I can look after myself,”
she said curtly. Her blue eyes
blazed with excitement. “What
do you say? Will you come?
You will come, won’t you?”
She stabbed the cigarette
out in the ash-tray.
“Like hell I will,” Kennedy
said.
T>ut here he was, back in
** these savage, cloud-
haunted mountains, riding a
good bay mare, black-bearded,
dressed as a Berber tribesman,
the American girl disguised,
too, beside him on a stout
mule, although he had sworn
a hundred times that this
wouldn’t happen, for either of
them.
She had enmeshed him
strand by strand, this blue-
eyed spider with her obsession
about a world scoop. At first
there semed no harm in talk-
ing about it, how it might be
done, an academic exercise ;
that had gone on for several
days. Then, since she was
determined to go to Marra-
kesh, there had seemed no
reason why he shouldn’t go,
too, if only to keep her out
of trouble there. He was con-
fident that, faced with the
difficulties of putting her plan
into operation, she would give
up and go back to Beirut,
back to America, perhaps.
For himself, Marrakesh was
as good as any other Middle
East city, better than most,
in fact, since he knew it well.
Finally, since she had over-
come one difficulty after
another, and was all prepared
to make the attempt alone, in
a jeep full of provisions , and
without a word of the
language, he had to come
along too. So, limb by limb,
he had been entangled.
The clothes had come with
them in the jeep, the jeep
itself had been left in a village
in the foothills, where they
had bought the horse and the
mule. He hadn’t any hope of
passing as a Berber in these
villages, of course, but he had
said he was an Arab trader
from the Jordan, and Carol
had been veiled and silent.
So far they had been lucky,
with one or two narrow
escapes.
Now, riding past walnut
woods in the grey morning,
towards the Kaid’s castle, he
felt unaccountably happy;
now that it was no good
worrying any more. Past thick
hedges and gardens irrigated
by water running through the
hollow trunks of trees, and
a field of corn, to the huge,
grim castle. Across the
maid an, or horse - exercise-
ground, to the horseshoe-arch
before the castle.
Carol looked up through
her veil, staring at the dark,
leathery objects on the thick
mud walls, wondering what
they were. They were heads,
tokens that the new Kaid had
been actively pacifying the
countryside.
Kennedy spoke to the
loungers in Shillah, saying he
had business with the Kaid.
A negro with silver ear-rings
stood up, scratched himself,
and went inside. Presently a
tall man in white came out,
and demanded Kennedy’s
business. Kennedy looked at
him carefully, and decided he
was an important official; he
had never seen him before,
or any of the other loungers
around the gateway, and he
wondered briefly what had
happened to the old Kaid’s
retinue.
Kennedy said that he had
come a long way for audience
with the Kaid, whose fame
had spread over many lands.
He wished to ask the Kaid
certain questions, and he
would write down the answers,
and these would be read by
men all over the world.
The tall man smiled and
stroked his beard: Yes, but
would they read what the
Kaid had truly said, or would
his words be twisted in the
voyage?
Kennedy said gravely that
what the Kaid said would be
faithfully reported. The tall
man said to wait; doubtless
the Kaid would see him. They
waited a long time.
They were led through
several coutryards, into a long
passage guarded by a couple
of sleepy tribesmen with old-
fashioned rifles, then into a
long, narrow room, with a
minutely ornamented ceiling
and rugs of curious pattern on
the floor.
HThe Kaid was sitting on a
cushion, other men were
sitting around the room. The
tall man led them forward,
and, at a motion from the
Kaid, they sat down too, feet
tucked modestly under their
clothes. Carol was still veiled.
The new Kaid was about
30 years of age, a short com-
pact man, very dark, almost
negroid in coloring, but with
a straight nose and straight,
hard mouth, close - trimmed
black beard, small eyes, and
with a scar across his fore-
head. He wore white robes
of fine-woven wool.
He spoke in Arabic, almost
inaudibly; then, seeing that
they didn’t understand, raised
a small, sinewy hand on
which a magnificent silver
ring flashed, and a young man
came bounding forward, sink-
ing to the floor beside them
with singular acrobatic ease.
He would interpret for them,
he said in English.
Carol asked the questions,
and the Kaid answered in
Arabic. Why didn’t he talk in
Shillah, Kennedy wondered?
A mark of culture, perhaps.
Question and answer followed
a pattern, and after a time
Kennedy’s attention wandered.
Once or twice Kennedy saw
the Kaid’s little eyes turn
towards a man sitting in a
corner, and Kennedy wondered
who he was.
Carol scribbled the Kaid’s
answers. If anyone there
thought it strange that a
Christian woman, veiled like
a Moslem, should sit there in
a council of men taking notes,
he was too polite to say so.
They had discussed whether
Carol should remove her veil
or not, and decided that she
should leave it on. Berber
women were less strict than
Arabs regarding veils, but the
circumstances of the interview
were unusual; best to be
conservative, they had decided.
In the evening they rode away
from the grim castle,
Carol triumphant, Kennedy
thoughtful.
“Did you get what you
wanted?” Kennedy asked,
when they had camped for the
night.
“But of course. That man
in the corner —did you see the
Kaid looking at him? Who
do you suppose he was?”
“An Egyptian, I think.”
“That’s what I thought.”
“Apart from that possibility,
did you really find out any-
thing?”
She looked at him in sur-
prise. “You heard the
answers.”
“Yes. That he had restored
order, that he intended to con-
tinue as the faithful ally of the
French, as his uncle had, that
the rumors of mineral wealth
were false, that he only desired
to be left in peace, to rule
according to the laws of the
prophet, and words to that
effect.”
She frowned, crouching in
front of the fire. “You think
something is cooking, some-
thing big, that he’s covering
up?”
“No. At least, nothing that
there was any danger of us
uncovering.”
She puzzled over that: “I
don’t see what you mean.”
“Never mind.”
They weren’t out of the
woods yet, he thought; no use


walls of that “19th-century
baroque” edifice —A. W.
Verrall ; W. J. Arkell; A. H.
Fox-Strangways ; John Gard-
ner ; Hugh Easton ; Harold
Nicolson ; Algernon Black-
wood ; William Goodenough ;
Patrick Gordon-Walker; lan
Jacob ; Tyrone Guthrie;
Robert Morley; S. G. Burrard;
the Baddeleys; Adolphus
of Teck, and his brother
Francis. There are others, too,
men of lesser showing, who
also did their duty “as God
ordained.”
Australia and New Zealand,
countries growing-up when
Wellington was founded, owe
something to the college. Of
the boys who were at Welling-
ton in the opening-term, Henry
Peach Keighley is shown as
having come to Australia in
1866 and died here in 1868.
William Charles Wentworth,
grandson of the first William
Wentworth and father of the
present William Charles Went-
worth, MiP., was at Welling-
ton, and so were his three
brothers. There are other
names, too —Daniel Cooper
(son of tfie first Speaker of the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly
and later baronet of Wool-
lahra); Henry Plantagenet
Somerset (M.L.A. in Queens-
land); W. H. P. Plomer (Com-
mandant of the Queensland
Military Forces, 1902-06); the
Rev. Manley Power (well
known in Brisbane); W.
C. A. Vanneck (later
Lord Huntingfield, Gov-
ernor of Victoria, 1933-39, and
acting Governor - General,
1938); Archibald Weigall
(Governor of S.A., 1920-22);
F. R. Greenway, relative of
the Colonial Architect; and the
Hpnniker-Heatons. The names
Oldfield, de Salis, Spence,
Bayly, Lyttleton, Dowse and
Trench are not unknown to us,
either, in Australia and New
Zealand. And there are many
more who came here—some
to succeed as graziers or
merchants or legislators,
others, rougher diamonds, who
brought no more than the firm,
manly commonsense they had
had knocked into them and
could apply to their livelihood.
Wellington started as an
experiment in education—ait
that time, a bold one —and
much of the credit for its
achievement must be given to
Dr. Benson. How far it has
succeeded may be judged in
this birthday-year, when the
present master, G. H. Stain-
forth, an ex-foundationer and
a former tutor of the school,
rules in Benson’s place.
frightening her. But didn’t she
see that they would never have
left the castle if the Kaid had
feared anything they might
have seen? He thought of
the heads on the wall —she
hadn’t seen those, either. He
lay awake a long time, his arm
deadened by the weight of her
sleeping head. They had been
lovers since Marrakesh.
He would, he supposed, have
to marry her. He hadn’t
planned marriage; he had
thought the adventure would
end when she had filed her
story; but now he saw he
would have to go on being
responsible for her. Anyone
so unconscious of the quiet,
deadly omens was doomed in
this violent world . . .
Y\?hen the Raid’s revolt
broke, well-armed tribes-
men pouring down from the
hills, they were already married,
on the way back to Australia.
“So I was right, after all!”
she said indignantly.
“Well, you got your inter-
view,” he said. “A world
scoop. That’s a resounding
note to retire on.”
“But the interpretation was
wrong,” she said accusingly.
“Yours!”
“Never mind,” he said
placidly, thinking of the heads
on the wall.
Why had the Kaid stayed
his hand? Mercy? Not very
likely. Good judgment, per-
haps. Lucky, anyway. Just as
well they were safely married
—after being right once, in a
thing like that, she’d inevitably
run into trouble. Luck like
that couldn’t last.
“I don’t mind, really,” she
said, thinking: isn’t it lucky
I’d heard all about Sulat from
that old bore at the hotel, and
that, for no reason at all, I had
that brainwave? Lucky for
him, too —no saying what
would have happened to him
in Beirut, out of a job and
running around with fast
women. Funny how it all
turned out. Of course, once I
started it I had to keep it up.
And I did get a world
scoop . . . !
Faith in the
Future
There is something typically Australian about
a Sheep Show. Among those heavy-fleeced
animals that come on parade from out of our
sheeplands, a man is not far from the centre of
the national story.
So I went to the recent Diamond Jubilee Sheep
Show at the Sydney Showground. It was a
remarkably fine exhibition, well worthy of our
place as the world’s leading producer of wool.
Entries were a record. The standard was
very high.
At the judging rings I watched experts parting
the thick fleeces and weighing the points of
individual excellence. And I thought of the work
and the wisdom that have gone into evolving the
breeds of sheep that have given Australia an
international fame.
True, the natural foundation was here for us
from the start. The sheep were suited to our huge
areas of inland plains. The wool came back in
life-stream to our economy and helped towards
further settlement.
But there has been much more to it than a
turning on this fortunate cycle. Here in this Show
were the signs of skilful breeding and flock
management, the marks of science applied to
increasing the carrying-capacity of land and
gaining a much heavier average yield from each
animal. Australia has done a lot to enhance its
treasure in wool.
In recent years, as we know, other countries
have gone out to develop synthetic fibres in
competition with wool. We can accept that for
the challenge it undoubtedly is; but let us never
doubt our ability to meet it successfully.
Population in the world is rising rapidly. The
living standards of millions are being raised. More
wool will be sold in the future than ever in the past.
To meet competition in that growing market,
the industry knows that it will have to maintain
surpassing standards of efficiency in all its branches,
from first to last.
I saw proof of this purpose—and sensed
something of the national inspiration behind it—
in that superb, animated display at the Sydney
Sheep Show.
H. Hastings Deening


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Future in Coal
The coalminer seems deter-
mined to swim against the tide,
or sink.
The tide is the overwhelming
trend towards mechanisation
which reduces drudgery and
hazards to life and health, cuts
costs and opens-up wider
markets.
Living here in the Bulli
(N.S.W.) district, with mines
on all sides and the big
industrial centre of Port
Kembla nearby providing big
pay and an assured future for
20,000 men, I deplore the yo-
yo motif in colliery employ-
ment.
The heart of the matter, it
seems to me, is that the miner
encourages his sons to follow
in his footsteps when they
could —mentally, educationally
and physically become
trainees in other, more satis-
fying heavy industry.
My neighbor’s sons did well
at high-school, but into the
mines they went! “What if
colliery trends continue to
reduce the demand for bullock-
ing manpower?” I asked him.
He replied that the miners
would take care of that; if
necessary, they’d organise
industrially to ‘demand a 30-
hour week in the mines.
But if that course lost us the
promising overseas markets
which mechanisation had
opened-up, and if higher costs
forced the railways to get rid
of the coal-burning engines?
The workers would unite
and prevent that!
Yet employment - officers
from Port Kembla visited high-
schools 400 miles away to
recruit lads with no better edu-
cation than those here.
I saw the same thing at Mait-
land. Employment - officers
from Newcastle were recruit-
ing at Lismore and Moree,
though they would have been
glad to get Cessnock lads.
Every year about 2000 men
leave the industry, most of
them through age. But for
years about 750 men each year
—a lot of them young chaps
suitable for industrial training
—have gone into the coal-
industry in the Wollongong
area, and 750 have started
working for the Newcastle-
Cessnock mines, 200 of them
in the Western district.
The young fellows might
have to leave home to advance
in their careers if they entered
the steel-industry. They would
certainly have to take the job
seriously and do their share of
study at night, but the rewards
are waiting.
If the number of men em-
ployed in the coal-industry is
likely to fall I’d go so far as
to suggest that young fellows
suitable for training in other
industries with an assured
long-term demand for workers
“I wish these humans Would stop talking — it’s going
right through my head.”
should not be permitted to
enter such an unpromising
career.
The writing is on the wall.
Other sources of power will
reduce the need for coal in
years to come. Why not give
the lads a break? — Pater
(N.S.W.).
Road Killers
Perhaps Chas. E. Rattles is
right (B. 6/5/’59) about speed
being overrated as a road
killer, but surely the essential
cause of many so-called acci-
dents is not physical environ-
ment but personal failure?
What are called “accident
causes” are really the final
acts which result in injury or
death. The real cause may be
a domestic quarrel, depres-
sion, a business flop, excessive
drinking or some other reason
basically psychological in
character.
This view has received com-
paratively little attention in
Australia, but increasing re-
search overseas has lately
focused attention on the per-
sonality of the driver as the
true source of accidents.
Some drivers are in love with
their cars, intoxicated by the
immense power at their com-
mand. Any attempt to pass
them on the road is an affront
to be energetically resisted.
Any hesitation in letting them
pass is studied insolence to be
rudely suppressed. An hour in
any city will reveal the types
who shout at other drivers,
crowd them off the road,
dazzle them with headlights
and sometimes dash at them
with a burst of speed and
swerve aside at the last moment.
Four types are easily recog-
nisable: First, the emotionally
and mentally immature driver
whose car is an extension of
his weak ego. Second, the
driver temporarily rendered
dangerous by worry or tension.
Third, the fellow preoccupied
with a personal problem that
prevents concentration. Fourth,
the exasperated driver, plagued
by a distracting wife or
domineering mother-in-law.
Even the responsible motorist
is subject to such influences as
mental fatigue, the hypnotic
effect of driving long distances
at constant speed in darkness,
summer heat or slippery roads
—none of which contravene the
traffic-code or can be escaped
indefinitely.
Certainly explore the merit
of expressways, safety-belts,
speed-limits and the like. But
let’s also take a closer look at
the mental make-up of the
person behind the wheel. —
Xavier (Vic.).
Snowy Irrigation
It was with great surprise
that I read in Frank Dixon’s
article on the .Snowy Scheme
(B. 20/5/’59) that the waters
from the diverted Snowy
River “will eventually irri-
gate a thousand square-miles
of country that is now, be-
cause of inadequate rainfall,
of very little national value.”
Doesn’t Mr. Dixon know
that it is because of this “in-
adequate rainfall” that the
country falling under the
threat of irrigation is the
world’s most valuable Merino
country, and that by irrigating
it Australia will lose some of
her most important studs?
Furthermore, land cited for
resumption has an adequate
and permanent water-supply
from the sub-artesian basin at
about 20ft. to 70ft. I suggest
that Mr. Dixon inquire further
into the reaction of this under-
ground water-table to flood-
irrigation.—(Mrs.) Stephanie
McLarty (N.S.W.).
Local-government Finance
“Pieter Nuyts” (B. 13/5/’59)
states a good case, but, in
common with most people who
tackle the subject of 1.-g.
finance, he is unaware of its
ramifications.
The peculiar system of book-
keeping is designed to baffle all
but the initiated. It’s based
on the receipts and payments
for each financial year, and
the so-called ledger is used to
classify and analyse entries in
the cash-book, which, contrary
to orthodox double-entry


%
ft
luP/
m
Qi
m
¥/i
Greet your friends with a
Whisky worthy of their
friendship—White Horse.
Skilful blending has given
this Whisky the rare
qualities of excellence. All
over the world men
who know best choose
White Horse for
preference.
WHITE
HORSE
Scotch Whisky
methods, is the chief book of
account.
A complex system of “allo-
cations” and rearranging of
“ledger” accounts for pre-
sentation in the annual state-
ment results in concealing much
of the information it is desired
to make public. The first
charge against roads is wages.
These are supposed to be split-
up and allocated to the various
roads where work is done.
Materials used—bridge timber,
cement, etc., but not road-
materials like gravel—are also
allocated.
Thus the’entry against roads
in the annual statement would
be composed of these two
items. Many other items
chargeable against roads are set
out separately—e.g., repairs
and parts, fuel and oil, hire
paid to outside plant—all of
which can run into big money.
Sections of “wages” deducted
from the original total are
shown on the wages-sheet.
These are long-service leave,
and holiday and sick-pay.
Other overheads such as
superannuation, third-party on
own vehicles, insurance on
plant, engineer’s car-allowance,
etc. —are sihiilarly charged to
roads, being expenses con-
nected with the overall term
“works:”
“Pieter” gives a figure of
£5700 against “roads,” but the
correct total was probably
double this amount, thus ex-
ceeding his figure for traffic-
licences received.
Quoting from my own
records: while traffic-licences
amounted to £3700, total ex-
penditure on roads was about
£9OOO. This year traffic-fees
will jump to over £4OOO, but
on present indications roads
will cost more than £lO,OOO.
However, I don’t want to
quarrel with “Pieter’s” main
point—namely, that far too
much money is spent on all
manner of stunts other than
roads. I know queer things
happen on metropolitan boards.
I run a country district, and we
have to keep out of the clouds
a bit more in the bush.—
R. H. G. (W.A.).
Rockets or Tucker?
No doubt “Fragmos” (B.
33/5/’59) is one of those who,
had they lived in time past,
would have asked the builder
of some great national monu-
ment why he wasn’t rebuilding
the local slums.
The most important im-
mediate effect of space-travel
will be on the human mind.
If “Fragmos” lives long
enough he’ll find his mental
horizons expanded by rocket-
research.
Such a process can be seen
in the past. The Renaissance
brought great developments in
art and science. Even from
such now-discredited activities
as the pursuit of conquest and
empire there flowed a great
release of intellectual energy.
We can no longer “expand”
in the sense of conquest and
empire, but if we remain cir-
cumscribed by the limits of
our own little planet nothing
but mental stagnation can
ensue.
Space-travel might also help
towards a solution of many
of the problems hinted at by
“Fragmos.” At this stage of
human development we have
at least begun to think beyond
the narrow confines of
nationalism. This evolution
will be enormously accelerated
by the conquest of space.—
U. F. O. (Q.).
Cracking the Bodgie
One of the funniest things
in this extremely funny
century is the sight of middle-
aged people overcome by grief
and self-blame when confront-
ed with the vandal. “Bodgie,”
after all, is only a handy word
to sum up the modern young
vandal.
“Schoolmaster” (B. 3/6/’59)
seems to have swallowed his
Adler theory of environment
pretty thoroughly. Psychology
appears to be a branch of


philosophy that has grabbed to
itself a bit of medical mumbo-
jumbo. It tells us very little
of use. Child-welfare agents
cling fast and simple to the
notion that if each child has
his own bed in his own room
everything is perfect, whereas
Dr. Margaret Mead says that
perfect human happiness can
be found in Tahiti, where
families are interchanged with
the greatest of what we would
call irresponsibility.
“Schoolmaster” claims that
the present crop of vandals is
the product of Sir Henry
Parkes’s idea of free and com-
pulsory education. This, when
it comes to lacerating yourself
for the sins of the children,
would be hard to beat.
While admitting that literacy
(informed) can be thrust upon
no one. I've still to hear any
commentator on causes of
Juvenile delinquency compare
the proportion of delinquents
coming from church-schools
with those from State schools.
If there is a significant
difference it should be publi-
cised. Then we could act.
Church-schools are not so
few that ultimate and properly
assessed comparisons cannot
be made.
Having lived in a new suburb
and an old one, I’d back rear-
ing the youngsters in the old
place any time. For a start,
the police are near at hand—
not at the nearest junction-
town. Secondly, they have
long memories of mug-lairs in
“I think you’ll find that this place has just about
everything.”
the past, and don’t intend to
put-up with a new lot. Milk-
bar cowboys are sent on their
way. Thirdly, the cliques have
had time to grow into clubs,
and all any boy could want is
laid at his feet.
In our suburb, we have prac-
tically every religious denomi-
nation. Each has its youth-
and girls’-club. These include
Baptist Boys’ Brigade, C.E.8.5.,
C.Y.O. and Salvation Army.
In the non-sectarian field are
the Boy Scouts (two), Air
League, Ambulance Brigade,
Junior Rugby League, Soccer,
tennis and baseball. There’s a
free library which the children
treat as their very own, and
there’s the evening continu-
ation-school teaching every-
thing that a group could ask
for.
Behind all this is a pretty
devoted army of men giving
their time and spare cash to
organise youth. If the bodgie is
an outsider here, it is only
because he wants to be. He’s
incapable of thinking ; his only
motto is “We gotta go.” When
he’s tired of “going” and craves
action he smashes something
or inflicts pain.
In the new suburbs, where
families stick close together
and treat their neighbor as a
stranger on the strictly “mind
their own business” level, the
bodgie has little interference
with his fun and games. I,
for one, am glad not to be in
such a suburb at present.—
Suburbia (N.S.W.).
Australian Aerogrammes
The aerogramme is one of
the most useful postal services.
Large enough to contain a
letter of reasonable length, it
goes to any part of the world
as first-class airmail, without
surcharge. Since five, or even
six, of them weigh only half-
an-ounce, they should be one
of the most profitable of all
items sent through the mails.
The Australian aerogramme
used to be one of the worst
in the world. It contained
only 104 square-inches of space
to write on, compared with 112
on that of Britain and 126 on
those of the U.S.A. and most
other countries.
Further, the price of the
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 543
, Across
I—Urgently1—Urgently calling a shellfish an insect. (7)
4—Chap trebled the wrong way. (7)
B—lt8 —It identifies some insular character Yours Truly
defames. (8)
10—One might be run through with this artist on the
wharf. (6)
12 — Yours Truly is Yours Truly with Diana at a fenland
city without delay. (11)
13— Beautiful place of the Swiss publicity in the motor. (8)
14 — Fervently promote hostile bar-
, racking by the way. (5)
18—It is a deficiency, unfortu-
nately ! (5)
20—Mice star cut out from tin. (8)
24 —Where one might find many a
lounge-lizard retract a member
of the wedding. (7, 4)
26 — Outback worker is to get a
quack before bowling. (6)
27 — Not a single person follows Roy
Rene with an unvarying
sound. (8)
28 — Much more illustrious personage
who practises cannibalism on
King George. (7)
29 — Reasons for absence, failure,
etc. (7)
Down
1 — 151,000 choppers of high-peaks
of dramatic tension. (8)
2 Teaming up with Jolson failing
to follow George Washington's
example. (7)
3 Walking nag tried to run
badly. (8)
5 The French hail the Roman
holiday. (5)
6 Furies in Ireland and no contra-
diction. (7)
7 Deposit from wine sailors. (6)
9—l’m no cad in hiding, but
wandering, nevertheless. (7)
11 —Swell sealer. (3)
15 — This makes a South American
drain the alternative one with
no business. (7)
16 — Chap on parade is mentioning
swamp growth. (8)
17 — They pulverise theatrical torch-
bearers after credit. (8)
19 —Robbery is the occupation of
this Louisiana bee who doesn’t
work. (7)
21— Primitive instruments to empty
nothing on to the manu-
script. (3-4) /
22 Food for the feverish and husky,
perhaps. (3-3)
23 — Joint from which rose fruit is
available. (3)
25 —On the watch concealed
later. (5)
Solution to Crosword No. 542.


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams,
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney.
before attention was turned to
the reefs underlying the wash,
and from which was produced
another 119,0000 z. before
closing down.
This fabulous mine, which
began in 1856, was the Band
of Hope, with 120 share-
holders, holding 120 men’s
ground.
Quite unlike most N.S.W.
operators, these men, who
were principally working-
miners, decided to bore their
ground first. After boring for
12 months through basalt, etc.,
they commenced to sink a
"Her figure-work's good."
shaft in March, 1858, near a
borehole which had reached
294 ft. without bottoming. This
shaft, incredible as it may
seem, took almost nine years
to bottom at 400 ft., by which
time one 15in. pump and one
12in. pump were needed just
to keep down the water, and
the shaft had cost over
£29,000. Later, when working
this shaft, two pumps
were installed.
On driving from the shaft-
bottom at 170 ft. east, a rise
was put up to the wash and the
mine again became swamped
by the water the pumps could
not lift. Before this shaft was
bottomed, another party sold
their claim and shaft, which
adjoined the Band of Hope, to
them for £BOO, and this became
the principal working-shaft
for some years.
The Band of Hope raised its
first gold from this shaft in
June, 1864, and paid a first
dividend in July of the same
year. During this year litiga-
tion commenced with several
adjoining companies, which
dragged on for over 10 years,
engaging seven barristers, and
leading to the first of many
changes of name of this mine,
ultimately closed down in
1908 under the name of “The
Band and Lock.” The mine'
is better known under the name
it carried longest, “The Band
and Albion Consols.” It first
operated under this name in
March, 1868, prior to which it
had, in 'three-and-a-half years,
produced gold valued at over
£650,000 and paid £382,400 in
dividends from the one shaft
bought for £BOO.
The lead worked from this
shaft (No. 2) was considered
narrow, averaging 200 ft. wide,
with from 2ft. to 6ft. of wash,
carrying over Hoz. a ton. In
all, the mine produced
519,0000 z. and paid £917,459 in
dividends, and to this day
it holds the record for the
greatest gold-production in
one day (and also one week),
having on March 7, 1868,
produced from one day’s work
28320 z., and for the week
ending that day, 46680 z.
Up until July, 1868, 27 deep-
lead alluvial mines in Ballarat
had produced (official figures)
over 1,000,0000 z., of which
four mines, each producing
over 100,000 oz. had totalled
528,9200 z.
The total gold-production
from alluvial sources in Bal-
larat is, like Gulgong, a matter
for conjecture, but records
available point to some
10,000,0000 z. —about the same
as produced in the whole of
N.S.W. for the first 40 years
of production.
The shallow alluvial alone
was quite fantastic, pounds’-
weight of gold per tin-dish of
dirt being common. Governor
Lonsdale, in October, 1851,
watched eight pounds washed
from two dishes of dirt,
Messrs. Esmond and Cavanagh
washed 50 pounds in two days.
At least four other Vic-
torian alluvial fields were
comparable in richness with
Ballarat, and, to quote one
other alluvial mine from
another field, the Madam
Berry, at Creswick, produced
387,3000 z. and paid £885,000
in dividends.
Actually Gulgong would
roughly compare with the
Forbes-Parkes goldfield as far
as richness is concerned, but,
unfortunately, we in N.S.W.
have never chased the dwt. to
the depths or with such vigor
and against such odds as the
Victorian miner.
There is no doubt that on
many of our goldfields there
are valuable deposits awaiting
modern equipment and
methods, but while we remain
tied to the unrealistic Ameri-
can gold-price there is little
hope of anything being done.
An easy answer would seem
to lie at hand: all that is
necessary is for our Common-
wealth Government to intro-
duce gold currency in perhaps
£l, £5 and £lO pieces. Such a
lot of these would immediately,
disappear one way and another
that not only could con-
siderable profit accrue to the
Treasury but the demand for
gold would soon lead to a
Revival of one of our most
interesting and yet neglected
industries.
Australian aerogramme rose
until it reached the present
10d., making it one of the
dearest on earth. Anyone
living in the U.K. can send an
aerogramme to the opposite
end of the world for 6d., and
an American can do the same
thing for 10 cents.
Australia has now produced
a new aerogramme. Space has
been expanded to 115 square-
inches, but it follows the old
style of folding, far inferior to
the American one, where both
ends are folded in, and it is
given a second fold and is
sealed with a single flap.
Why our P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment didn’t adopt the Ameri-
can aerogramme is indeed a
mystery.—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Hides
Prices quoted in the periodi-
cal mentioned by “Bill the
Nark” (B. 3/6/’59) are for
better-quality hides, which we
never see in footwear made in
Australia. Hides I mentioned
are the average usual run —
mostly from ticky country—
and they don’t reach the
market because it wouldn’t pay
to send them there. As things
are, these hides remain over the
fence ; and so does the price
of footwear. — Raw Material
(Q.).
Peg-pricing
The other day my wife
asked me to buy some clothes-
pegs at the local hardware-
store. I was handed a packet
containing 18 pegs—price 18d.
—which I thought was very
good value. Described on the
package as “White Hardwood,
7 Coil Spring, Clothes Pins,”
'they were well made and had
a galvanised spring. Examin-
ing the package, I was amazed
to find the inscription “Made
in Finland.”
Why is it possible to import
pegs from Finland to be sold
at a retail-price with which
Australian manufacturers
apparently can’t compete? We
have the hardwood and the
steel, and, with freight, and
presumably duty, to be paid on
the imported article, surely the
local manufacturers should
have a margin to enable them
to hold the market?
We can apparently manufac-
ture clothes-hoists and clothes-
lines and sell them at a com-
petitive price, but when it
comes to the humble peg, we
don’t seem to be in it.— Orang
PUTEH (N.S.W.). '


Every grazier must
be concerned with
his lamb mortality
rate. It is an unde-
niable fact that every
lamb saved means
increased returns.
The risks of flystrike,
setback and other
diseases are greatly
reduced with the use
of Elastrator Rubber
Rings for castration
and tailing.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WEAR IN SHEEP'S TEETH
By C. L. GOLDSTONE
Lecturer in Livestock-production, University of N.S.W.
Judging the age of an animal
J by its teeth is an ancient
art, and sheep are mouthed by
all sheepmen for this purpose.
However, great differences
exist in the rates of wear and
the ages at which teeth are
cut, so it is difficult to estimate
age by the traditional practice
of mouthing. Various authori-
ties have recorded a wide range
of ages at which sheep’s teeth
erupt, particularly with regard
to the permanent incisors ; for
instance: Ist pair, 12-19
months; 2nd pair, 18-26
months; 3rd • pair, 23-36
months ; full mouth, 28-45
months. These extremes of
incisor-eruption may be in-
herent or may be partly due
to the wide range of nutritional
conditions under which sheep
are reared.
Since the thrift and produc-
tivity of sheep depend primarily
on an adequate intake of food,
considerable emphasis is laid
by experienced sheepmen on
the soundness of mouths. Not
only are the mouths of sheep
critically examined before pur-
chase, but also, within a flock,
breeders cull as early as pos-
“Face the camera , dear—it Won't bite you.”
sible animals with mouth-
deformities or irregularities in
dentition and, at a later stage,
animals showing undue wear.
Indeed, it is the condition of
the teeth and not age that
determines the economic life
of the sheep in any given set
of conditions.
The rejection of otherwise
useful breeding-ewes, which
are not actually at the peak of
their production, because of
failing mouths, is a loss to the
whole industry. As Fraser has
said: “It would be of con-
siderable advantage in sheep-
farming if sheep could be relied
upon to keep perfect teeth to
an older age. .. .It is, however,
simply not true to say, as is
often said, that the best-fed
sheep have the best teeth. The
problem, and it remains an
unsolved problem, is a much
more complex one than that.”
Little work has been done
on the problem in Australia,
but in New Zealand it has
been found that generally the
more improved the country the
poorer the teeth. The problem
is concerned, in the main, with
the excessive wear on the
incisors resulting from abra-
sion, and probably also from
erosion, and is not due to caries
(decay).
New Zealand workers have
so far detected no differences
in the chemical composition or
in the fine structure of the
teeth from various sources or
with different amounts of wear.
It would appear that the rates
of wear of teeth of grazing
-sheep are governed c-hiefly by
inherent (and perhaps congeni-
tal) differences between mouths
of individuals within a breed,
and between breeds. It has
been suggested, for instance,
that the Merino generally has
better-wearing teeth than the
British breeds. External
factors, particularly those
affecting the nature of the feed,
also come into the question.
Broad correlations have been
found between tooth-quality
and soil-type, but there is no
clear connection with known
trace - element deficiencies.
Management-factors are also
of importance, since over-
grazing on all types of country
promotes rapid wear.
Although chemical investiga-
tions have not shown the prob-
lem to be a nutritional one in
the generally accepted sense, it
has been found that certain
substances in rapidly growing
herbage can dissolve the hard
calcium-phosphate from teeth
and probably contribute to
wear by process of erosion.
Again waters from many
artesian and sub-artesian bores
in Queensland and elsewhere
contain minute quantities of
chemical compounds of
fluorine, which when taken in
small daily amounts by young
animals have a harmful effect
on the development and sub-
sequent wear of teeth. Exces-
sive quantities taken regularly
over a period of time cause
symptoms of a more severe
form of poisoning in animals
of all ages. On the other hand,
if fluorine is entirely absent
from the diet of very young
animals a peculiar type of per-
manent tooth forms it will
not stand up to work, and
wear is excessive and uneven.
It has also been observed
in Australia that dental
development in sheep is
adversely affected if they are
fed on cereal rations for several
months after weaning. ' Sub-
sequent return to a normal,
well-balanced diet fails to pre-
vent the development of gross
abnormalities as the animals
mature. C.5.1.R.0. workers
have found that correcting the
calcium-deficiency and calcium-
phosphate balance of cereal
rations by the addition of a
suitable calcium-supplement,
such as ground limestone, at
the 1-per-cent, level in the
ration, prevented abnormal
dental development in the
majority of sheep.
It is well-known that indi-
vidual animals vary consider-
ably in the size and conforma-
tion of their jaws and teeth, so
perhaps there is a relationship
between the mass of the tooth
and rate of wear. It would
follow then that improvement
in the average quality of the
mouths in a flock could be
most rapidly achieved by cull-
ing ewes and rams with
undesirable mouths and by
rigid selection against “long-
jaw” and “shortjaw.” It is
suggested that broad, deep
jaws provide the setting for
broad, massive incisors and
that at all times selection for
these should lead to an
improvement in the length of
time a sheep can be kept in
the flock.
However, it cannot be over-
emphasised that we in Aus-
tralia have very little factual
information on this important
problem. The writer is engaged
in an investigation of some
of the problems and would
appreciate any information


Grow OLIVES
for profit!
■ B S
:%%
m
m
•: -
jgg|§|s
W: •
Ideal for stock windbreaks,
hedges and shade trees . . .
do not denude the soil.
Prices range from 5/-.
Planting Season 1959, April to
Sept. 30. Sizes available: 12, 18,
24, 30, 36 to 48. Sicilian type for
oil; Verdale, Queen and others for
pickling. All trees hormone-propa-
gated for quick growing.
Write for FREE Illustrated Booklet on
cultivation, price list and further infor-
mation to
K. A. BROCK
Beaumont Road,
Beaumont, South Australia.
Phone: UX 2543.
from flock-owners of their
experiences and problems in
this important field.
Wafer Conservation
“Myall”: A large water-
harvesting scheme —the biggest
ever attempted on one property
in Queensland —has been de-
signed by the Queensland Irri-
gation Commission for the
owners of North Bindango
cattle-station at Hodgson, 30
miles west of Roma.
An earth-bank, 1000 ft. long
and in places 35ft. high, has
been built across a valley be-
tween two hills. The dam,
when filled, will submerge 64
acres of land and store 156-
million gallons of water, equal
to about 600 acre-feet. It will
irrigate between 150 and 200
acres of cattle - fattening
pastures. The owners claim
that it will increase the per-
manent carrying-capacity of
breeding-stock by 20 per cent,
and that, if the dam is full at
the beginning of a drought, the
present number of cattle could
be maintained, without any
losses, through the longest dry
spell that has ever been
recorded in the Roma district.
Over 70,000 cu.-yds. of
material was used to con-
struct the wall, and for eacii
yard of earth used, 20 cu.-yds.
of water will be impounded,
compared with only \\ cu.-yds.
in an excavated dam. The
cost of the earthworks is about
£9OOO, and the irrigation-plant
will add another £lBOO to the
bill.
Poultry Mating
“Agricola”: The demand
for cockerels when prices are
best often causes poultrymen
to mate birds when they are
pullets—and this can cause
trouble. Unfortunately, pullets
are laying at their best when
fertile eggs are wanted most.
The hens that should be used
—second- and third-year birds
—are generally staging a go-
slow strike, and their eggs are
scarce.
Using very young birds for
mating is not sound business.
They may be laying well, but
the eggs are generally under-
weight. Day-old chicks from
older birds are heavier than
chicks from these young birds.
Experienced poultrymen may
get away with pullet-mating
for one year, but if continued
for longer it simply doesn’t
pay. In three years from the
start of mating young birds
the flock will have slipped
markedly, and it will take
several more years of mating
two- and three-year-old hens,
and some heavy culling, to
correct this trouble.
When selecting hens for
mating, cull any that don’t
measure-up to size in relation
to breed. Small hens are a
poor proposition. Crooked
breasts and coarse combs,
sunken eyes and coarseness in
the head are signs that the
bird should not be used for
breeding. Take with a grain
of salt the old “three-finger
test” if the birds are moulting.
This test works all right when
birds are normal, but the pelvic
bones close when the feathers
are being cast.
Shorten the spurs on male
birds when they are two or
three years old, and make sure
the males are free from lice,
so that they don’t infest the
rest of the flock. When
examining birds it’s a good
plan to defeather the area
around the vent. This is a
“must” in heavy-feathered
breeds. It only takes a few
minutes, but saves a lot of
time later and prevents exhaus-
tion of the male birds.
A good rule-of-thumb is to
mate 12 hens of the heavy
breeds and about 15 hens of
the lighter breeds to every
cock-bird. Some mate heavier
than this, but assured results
follow reasonable matings.
Single-pen mating—penning
the desired number of hens
with a male bird —pays every
time. It is better than allow-
ing several male birds to run
with the hens, when they will
fight as soon as they see each
other. Timid birds get pushed
aside and one male takes-over,
with results that are notice-
able in the resultant hatchings.
Lambs in London
. This year’s West r a 1 ia n
export-lamb competition was
won by W. G. Burges, of
Tipperary, York, possibly the
oldest and most persevering
stud-breeder in the State. A
prominent exhibitor in the
British-breeds section of the
Royal Show, he is also a
prominent leader in farmers’
co-operative movements.
His winning lambs were
bred by Southdown rams from
English Leicester-cross Merino
ewes and, when judged in
London, defeated those bred
by last year’s winner, O. E. W.
Bruns, of Armadale, who
entered his Southdown,
Romney Marsh-cross Merino
breed. These W.A. lambs are
described as “much leaner
than the show-lambs seen in
recent years . . . their lower
weights, in particular, being the
type wanted for the London
market.”
P©ntiac P©iat@es
“Big Billy”: The red-skinned
Pontiac potato has been gain-
ing in popularity, but needs
special handling to do well.
Its main advantage is that it
takes only about three months
to develop, so it’s grown a lot
in Queensland for the early
Sydney market.
This variety must be care-
fully stored, otherwise it often
germinates poorly, because of
its short growing-season and
period of dormancy. With only
about three months from plant-
ing to harvest, seed has to be
stored nine months, or even
longer if planting is delayed
because of unfavorable
weather. This means de-
sprouting, perhaps more than
once —and Pontiac doesn’t take
as kindly to sprout-removal
as the later varieties.
The answer is storage at
temperatures between 35deg.
and 43deg. F. This prolongs
dormancy, provided seed
comes from a late-grown crop
and is put into cool-store with-
out delay. If cool-storage
isn’t available, put the spuds in
the coolest place that can be
found, and, as far as possible,
avoid desprouting. It’s better
to plant them with long sprouts
than desprout.
Leave the seed in store until
about 14 days before plant-
ing, and plant early, even if
only small sprouts can be
developed in the fortnight the
seed is out of storage. Novem-
ber is a good month for plant-
ing in most districts.
Lime
“North”: Lime is a soil-
improver, not a fertiliser, and
should not be applied to ground
with fertilisers of any kind,
especially those rich in sulphate-
of-ammonia. Lime acting on
that ingredient releases nitrogen,
which is then lost. At least
three weeks should be allowed
after liming before fertilisers
are applied. Heavy rain and
continual irrigation dissolve
the various mineral-constitu-
ents of the soil—including lime
—which drain into the subsoil
and make the surface acid or
sour.
Light, porous sandy soils
are more apt to become
acid than heavy ones and their
soil-particles crumble instead
of holding together. In heavy
soils, particles run together in
wet weather and cake, so that
the ground comes up in large
clods when ploughed, and does
not break-up readily. In either
event, crop-yields are gradu-
ally reduced. Applications of
lime will help both these con-
ditions, improving the texture
of light soil and loosening-up
heavy soil so that it becomes
friable.
Lime releases plant-foods in


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
the soil by improving condi-
tions for the activity of bac-
teria which cause the decom-
position of plant-refuse. If
green-manure is turned-under
in well-limed soils, the humus-
content is kept at a high level
and will increase yields. The
action of lime makes phos-
phates and molybdenum in the
soil available to plant-life, but
locks-up supplies of iron,
boron and aluminium. Ordi-
nary alum will make aluminium
available to the plant-roots,
and improved growing-condi-
tions brought about by liming
will enable plants to escape
some of the diseases they might
otherwise contract.
The amount of lime required
is governed by the type of soil,
its degree of acidity and the
kind of lime used. Heavy acid
soils need more lime than light,
sandy ones. Up to two tons
pulverised limestone an acre is
the usual rate of application,
but for very acid soils this may
be increased considerably.
Under ordinary conditions,
applications every three to five
years will be sufficient.
Liming usually brings better
yields and makes it easier to
work the land. All legumes,
such as peas, beans, clovers and
lucerne, favor heavily-limed
land, and this should be re-
membered when dressings are
being made. Pineapples,
maize, oats and other cereals,
strawberries, potatoes and
sweet-potatoes like acid soils
and therefore don’t need lime.
Hawkesbury
Agricultural College
“MacMuirick”: Hawkesbury
Agricultural College is per-
haps the best-known institu-
tion of its kind in Australia,
yet many people don’t know
much about the type of in-
struction given to students
there.
In their first year students
doing the agriculture course
spend approximately two days
at lectures and perhaps a day-
and-a-half at practical demon-
strations. The rest of the five-
day week is devoted to prac-
tical work in various sections
of the college: “First-years”
are given elementary jobs,
such as cleaning pig-pens and
working in the vegetable
garden. This helps them pick-
up ideas of how to go about
everyday jobs on any type of
farm.
The second year is accepted
by lecturers and students alike
as hardest of the three-year
course. During this period
only three or four days a fort-
night are spent in practical
work, otherwise it’s all lectures
and demonstrations. At the
end of that year students have
to sit for exams in subjects
ranging from microbiology
and botany to management of
horses and poultry, veterinary
science and economics. Besides
the written papers, there is a
practical examination in each
subject.
Third-year is generally re-
garded as best because it in-
cludes at least two country
tours. These are of great
value, as they show students
how to apply the knowledge
gained from the course.
Examinations start early in
the final year with viva-voca
tests on farm-machinery and
its uses. The finals, spread
over a month at the end of the
year, are not as severe as the
second-year exams.; and prac-
tical work in the final year is
more interesting than in the
preceding two, because students
are given more responsible
jobs.
Extra-curricular activities at
the college range from Rugby
Union to dramatics and a de-
bating-club. Rugby is almost
a religion at the college, which
has produced a notable number
of internationals.
All college activities are run
—under guidance of the prin-
cipal and his deputy—by
students elected by their col-
leagues. A president of the
students’ representative council
is elected twice a year and acts
as school-captain, in the con-
siderable responsibility for the
conduct of his fellow-students.
Students have gained the
reputation of being a “weird
mob” from press-stories about!
their ceremonies on initiation
and Empire Night. As a
student who has taken part in
both from the receiving-end as
well as administering-end, I
maintain there’s not much in
either that doesn’t happen
under cover in many similar
organisations.
The students’ daily life varies
little from week to week. The
day starts for most about
7 a.m., when the breakfast-bell
goes. Unlucky students work-
ing for the day in the dairy
are roused at 4.30 a.m., while
those working in the stables get
up at 5.45. Lectures and work
start at 7.30, summer and
winter ; one hour is given for
lunch; and knock-off is at
4.30 p.m. Lectures last for
55min. with smin. breaks
between.
Weed-control
“Sundowner”: Good results
in controlling weeds in lettuce
have been obtained at trials
conducted by the N.Z. De-
partment of Agriculture.
Raised beds, 200yds. long,
were sprayed with C.I.P.C. at
the rate of lgal. (41b.) an acre
the day before the lettuce was
planted. Volume of spray
used was 15gal. (about lOOgal.
an acre). The chemical was
then mixed with 15 gal. water
and the beds again sprayed at
the same tractor-speed and
pressure.
Except for one mechanical
hoeing a month later the beds
received no further attention
and remained free from weeds
until harvested. The only ill-
effects of the chemical on the
plant was a slight yellowing,
which could be regarded as
negligible. Unsprayed beds
had to be hand-hoed once,
and mechanically hoed three
times for further weed-control.
This cost £5 for two beds, com-
pared with 16s. for the C.I.T.C.
>
Side-dressing
Strawberries
“Acacia”: Strawberry-plants
need regular side-dressings of
balanced chemical fertiliser,
which should be given to well-
grown plants as soon as they
start to flower. If made too
early, such applications pro-
duce excessive growth of
leaves, delay blooming and
result in large crops of small
fruit. Backward plants need
this first side-dressing just
before blossoming begins.
The most suitable fertiliser
is a mixture containing 5 per
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(4/ 6/’59)
The southern half of Queensland and the northern
coastal area should have good rains during July. Rainfall
may be light elsewhere, and poor on central coast and far
western areas. With the exception of the far western
districts, moderate to good rains should continue for the
rest of the year.
N.S.W. should have moderate to good rains during July,
best falls occurring in the northern areas and heaviest on
the North Coast. However, rainfall may be light in the
Riverina and in the far western districts. Moderate to good
rains for the rest of the year should ensure a good season
in the whole of the State.
Victoria is likely to have only light to moderate rains
during July, which may be a month of low minimum-
temperatures and widespread frosts. Fairly heavy rains are
likely in August, with good falls for the rest of the year.
Rainfall may be patchy in South Australia during
July, with widespread frosts. Good rains should be received
in the agricultural areas between August and November,
with only patchy falls in the interior until October.
In Western Australia during July rainfall may be
moderate in the agricultural areas and light elsewhere. Good
rains should occur in the agricultural areas during August.
LENNOX WALKER.


r
' '
mnr
mi
>■ '
m
Smooth, seamless walls and ceilings
that won't buckle or warp
Gyprock Plaster Board goes up quickly, cleanly
Are you looking for the best available lining for your new
timber-frame home? Its name is Gyprock Plaster Board.
Two sheets cover wall. Smooth, seamless walls and ceilings
of Gyprock Plaster Board can be put up swiftly, easily.
There are seven economical sheet lengths in the new 4'6"
width. Two sheets laid horizontally cover a standard 9'
high wall.
_ Gyprock is crack-resistant. It won’t buckle or warp.
Fire insurance less. Gyprock will not burn, so insurance
premiums are lower when it is used for all interior walls
and ceilings. Gyprock is vermin-proof, takes paint or wall-
paper most efficiently.
Gyprock costs no more than other similar lining materials,
yet provides the highest standard in quality and appearance.
For further information about Gyprock write or ’phone your
nearest C.S.R. Showroom or contact your local distributor.
fgsd
CSR396
GYPROCK Plaster Board
Manufactured by CONCORD PLASTER MILLS
Marketed by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
cent, nitrogen, 13 per cent,
phosphoric-acid and 5 per cent,
potash. This must be evenly
distributed round and between
the plants in the rows. Apply
it at the rate of 201 b. to every
1000 plants (about a handful
to each five plants). Further
applications should be made at
five-weekly intervals, a total of
five dressings for the season.
By this method the correct
balance between growth of
vegetation and development of
fruit will be maintained. With
longer intervals between dress-
ings plants lose their vigor, and
continuous bearing is not
possible. Immediately after
side-dressing, irrigate the crop
to a depth of at least sin. other-
wise root-damage may affect
the plants irreparably.
Grassing of Orchards
“Billjim”: Grassing of
orchards —popular in New
Zealand and increasing in favor
in Australia—helps to prevent
soil-erosion on hilly ground
and corrects deficiencies of
trace-elements, notably iron.
Grassing releases potash
from the soil, reduces the pre-
harvest fruit-drop, improves
the color of fruit and reduces
storage - loss due to low-
temperature breakdown and
lentical rot. Also, by increas-
ing organic matter in the soil,
it makes for better physical
structure, aeration and drain-
age.
If, however, the orchard is
to benefit fully from grassing,
the sward should provide
plenty of grass-roots to build-
up organic matter; it should
also contain a high proportion
of clover to supply nitrogen,
and be capable of giving even
and dense ground-cover in the
shortest possible time. On
downs-country a mixed sward
is better than pure clover,
which, when wet, causes heavy
implements to skid.
A good mixture is 161 b.
perennial-rye, 81b. short-rota-
tion-rye and 21b. white-clover
to the acre. Other grasses
worth trying on small areas
are Italian-rye, prairie-grass
and meadow-grass (all at the
rate of 201 b. an acre).
Although not yet widely used
in Australasia, prairie-grass is
good in low-rainfall and non-
irrigated areas. It is deep-
rooting and produces plenty of
herbage in winter, and there-
fore it doesn’t compete
seriously with the trees for
moisture in other seasons. To
maintain a good surface,
prairie-grass should be used
with 21b. white-clover and
mowed or grazed during the
winter.
Meadow-grass is at its best
in spring and early summer ;
it’s not a vigorous grower, but
forms a close turf easy to mow.
It does best on moister soils of
above-average fertility. Try
101 b. mixed with 21b. white-
clover for a start.
Italian-rye and clover are
best for a clover-sward. Italian-
rye has a life of about two
years, and will give ground-
cover and suppress weeds until
the clover is established.
Don’t attempt grassing until
the trees are about five years
old ; the newly planted orchard
must be left to build a strong
framework and grow rapidly.
The grass needs frequent cut-
ting in spring and early
summer, so that it won’t com-
pete with the trees for
moisture, and also to preserve
clover in new and established
swards. Generally, a clover-
dominant sward should be cut
whenever the grass reaches
about 6in. Don’t cut too close
to the ground during the hottest
part of the summer ; in autumn
(except in dry years) reduce
cutting to a minimum.
v Onion-thrips
“Allium”: The onion-thrips
(Thrips tabaci ) is a small,
yellowish insect, about l/16in.
long. It lacerates the surface
of leaves, and sucks the juices,
causing a small white spot or
streak. When infestation is
severe the whole plant has a
silvery appearance, and the
leaves wither at the tips.
The female thrips lays eggs
on the onion-plant, and in a
week the nymphs hatch-out
and collect in clusters at the
base of young leaves—where
they are hard to detect —or on
the flower-stalk. After a few
days they drop to the ground,
where they pupate ; then about
three weeks after hatching they
re-infest the plant as full-grown
insects. The adult thrips feeds
mainly on older leaves, but
attacks any portion of the
plants and is responsible for
most of the damage.
Control of the pest is diffi-
cult. The nymphs, collected at
the bases of the young leaves,
cannot be sprayed effectively,
so must be attacked in the
adult stage. An application of
0.1 per cent. D.D.T.-spray will
clean-up the adults, and
repeated spraying every 14
days will destroy the younger
pests as they re-infest the
plants.
Several kinds of weed are
host-plants for the thrips;
cultivation will clean-up many
of the pupal thrips in the soil.
Farm Hints
“J.F. ” “ MacMuirick ”
(B. 22/4/’59) amazes me. I
didn’t think anyone believed
in telegony now. It was ment-
ioned to me, as a quaint super-
stition, when I was a child,
and later I came across it in
Darwin’s Origin of the Species.
Still, every time an expert
writes a book about breeding
he seems to feel obliged
solemnly to demolish the
fallacy ; I often wonder why.
It fills-up space, perhaps. Most
of them, incidentally, use
Darwin’s example of the foal
with the zebra-stripes.
“C.A.A.”: Superficial scald-
ing of stored apples can be
prevented by observing correct
storage-temperatures —40 deg.
until the end of May, 36deg.
in June, and 32deg. there-
after—and by picking at the
correct time. Fruit to be stored
beyond August should not be
picked in Victoria earlier than:
Delicious, mid-April; Stewart,
third week of April; Rome
Beauty and Granny Smith,
last week of April. Oil-wraps
are effective only on fruit
picked at the right stage.
“Big Billy”: Tyres will last
longer if stored in a cool place,
preferably in the dark, and
protected from ground-mois-
ture and rain. Never keep
tyres near petrol, oil or other
liquids which give off corrosive
fumes damaging to rubber. If
either new tyres or tubes aren't
to-be used for some time it’s
best to leave them unwrapped.
“Sundowner”: When sowing
oats as a cover-crop with
phalaris the seeding-rate should
be no more than 301 b. an
acre. See that the oats are
not allowed to dominate the
pasture—phalaris is sensitive
to competition. Strip-grazing
with an electric-fence is the
best way of checking the oats;
also, it prevents the paddock
from being pugged, which
slows-up the pasture.


THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Roots or cuttings of the bamboo-
reed Arundo donase. —6837.
A good mineral collection. —
6836.
Copy of Bushman and Buccaneer ,
compiled by Frank Fox. —6835.
Copy of Handy Hints for the
Farm. —6B3B.
Information Sought
Information on John Opie, who
painted one of the portraits of
Governor Macquarie in the Mitchell
Library, Sydney ?
Opie was a Cornish painter who
first exhibited at the Royal Academy
in 1782. He was known in artistic
circles of his day as the “Cornish
Wonder.” His first exhibited work,
which appeared in an annual show
of the Incorporated Society of
■ Artists, attracted considerable atten-
tion because it was described as
the work of a young artist who. had
never seen a picture. Peter Pindar
wrote that he came from the
Cornish sawpits and “there is a
maturity and judgment, a truth and
force of coloring in his portraits
which are astonishing.” At 21 he
put his name down as candidate
for the A.R.A., and was elected
four years later. He received com-
missions from George 111, and,
although his popularity declined
somewhat rapidly and stayed so
for many years, it rose again late
in life. His later portraits are
considered to be “excellent like-
nesses.”
* * * *
How do flying-fish fly ? Do they
do it by flapping their fins ?
There is strong scientific evidence
that the fins are never actually
flapped, but serve merely as gliding
planes. The motive-power comes
entirely from the tail, the elongated
lower lobe of which vibrates in
the water while all the rest of the
fish is in the air. Sometimes the
fish will drop to the surface and
gain momentum for the second
flight by reimmersing the bottom
of the tail. Normal flying-speed is
never greater than 25-30 m.p.h.
This is too low to enable a fish of
such weight to glide in still air;
accordingly, it appears that dis-
turbance of the air above the
uneven surface of the sea normally
helps the fish to maintain its glide.
• • • *
How to make a small quantity
of office-paste that will keep ?
Place one cup of water in a
small saucepan over fire, and add
one teaspoon powdered-alum. Put
one tablespoon flour or starch. in
a cup, blend smooth with cold
water, then pour into saucepan
when it boils, stirring well until the
mixture thickens. Let boil for a
few minutes, then whisk-in one tea-
spoon oil-of-cloves (as preservative).
Beat well, pour into wide-mouthed
jars. A larger allowance of flour
will make a stiffer, lard-like paste.
* * * *
Information on the work of
Lucien Henry, a teacher of sculp-
ture in Sydney many years ago ?
Henry, a native of Provence
(France) and a pupil of Viollet-le-
Duc, fled from Paris in 1871 after
“Oh... you mean skunk!”
an unfortunate connection with the
Commune of that year, and became
a member of the teaching-staff of
the Sydney Technical College.
There he developed the use of the
Australian flora and. fauna as a
base for decorative architectural
design, employing the lyrebird to
adorn capitals, the seahorse for
bowls and various foliage-plants for
panels. In this direction he has
had few followers, but his influence
on Australian sculpture was definite
and good.
* * * *
Full information on tomato
spotted-wilt, and method of check-
ing it in a tobacco-crop ?
The spotted-wilt disease occurs
on a very large number of plants,
which are quite unrelated botanl-
cally; the disease may cause serious
losses in tobacco, particularly with
young plants. Under cool or moder-
ate temperature - conditions the
disease spreads from the points of
infection, and may affect the whole
plant. The leaves lose their green
color and look darkened and
scorched. Under the influence of
higher temperatures the infections
may appear in the form of a series
of circular dead spots of light straw
color; occasionally the borders of
these spots are marked by con-
centric rings. Sometimes the whole
of the lower portion of a leaf may
show a mottled effect —the fine veins
easily visible because of their
change to a pale yellowish-white
color. Growth of the plant is
checked, and often the top is bent
slightly to one side. The disease
is transferred from plant to plant
by thrips, which have fed in their
immature stages on other diseased
plants.
To control the disease, aim first
at preventing its spread. Watch
carefully for the presence of symp-
toms in tomatoes, nasturtiums,
zinnias, etc. Any diseased plants
should be removed from gardens in
the vicinity of the tobacco area.
If the percentage of infected plants
is low, remove affected tobacco-
plants. This will reduce the popu-
lation of infective thrips which
otherwise would tend to spread the
disease. Although spotted-wilt may
be spread by mechanical means, it
is not as infectious in this sense
as is the case with tobacco-mosaic.
Brief Answers
C.E.: For information on
“Perspex” windscreens, write to
Bingham Bros., 30 Booth Street,
Annandale, N.S.W J.H.:
Assuming the sum to have been
set aside from income, it would
be taxable in the year in which it
was earned P.N.C.: Write to
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89
Castlereagh Street, Sydney I.B.:
“Stargazer” was the nom-de-plume
of Edward Dyson L.T.: Best
method of clearing muddy water in
a fish-pond is to run a gentle stream
of water through it with a hose.
This should clear it in a day or
so, but if it should become muddy
again clean everything out and
plant it with aquatic plants, such
as Anacharis or Vallisneria, in well-
washed Nepean sand....C.G.Y.:
What about Mahgunyah (my
home); Amaroo (beautiful spot);
Namaboola (pleasant outlook);
Wybalena (resting-place) or Wom-
pinni (sheltered from heat)?....
A.T.: There are three varieties:
Coon Can, Poker and Boathouse.
For rules see Hoyle’s Games
Modernised, obtainable from most
booksellers.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks tiecessary.
“Demonthenes Huggins”: It’s all
Greek to us M.S.: Promising
for sixteen... .Kumi Vaka Me:
Not as a ballad; but it should make
a good story in prose... .‘"Adelaide
Perth”: Can’t resist a bit of this
one:
(Specially composed for insertion in the
Sydney “Bulletin” by an Australian on
tour, at Tramore, Co. Waterford, Eire.)
HAIL AUSTRALIA
Australia is my dear homeland
My Country, over all;
Beneath her flag I’ll proudly stand
Whatever may befall.
Her soldier sons are brave and bold
No obstacles can impede them ;
Their Country’s Right they will uphold,
And bravely defend her freedom.
R.K.G.: “Great Blowering Dam!”
said the Religious Editor, dropping
the story into his basket F.R.:
It staggers along, although there’s
a dull glimmer towards the end,
. ...P.P.: Yes, but it doesn’t say
very much 8.J.: At least he’s
an educated swaggie D.E.: The
actor missed his cue..,.W.L.:
Your interpretation of “off-rhyme”
is too liberal... .A.V.: Like yog-
hurt, it’s sour and heavy C.N.:
No need for James to “dart round
the room for 10 solid minutes
swearing at the top of his voice.”
He may have been provoked, but
one minute’s swearing is quite
enough B.I.: The king-prawn
was fed to the office cat F.R.:
It has its moments, but there are
too few of them... .S.L.: Might
find a place in a parish-magazine.
J.V.: Eloquent byt meaning-
less H.H.: Plenty of sting in
the early parts; the ending is flat.
G.S.: It just seems to go on
and on and 0n....E.W.: Mildly
surprising to find beer lauded as
“that nut-brown heavenly nectar,”
but we must draw the line at
“nectar” being rhymed with
“rector”... .T.P.: That one was
miles better than your previous
effort; try to reduce superfluity and
concentrate more on direct action.
. ...8.G.: It might make a good
lyric for a pop.-song 1.D.D.:
Dubious humor....A.L.: But they
all die! ... .P.K.H.: Put the fat
lady on a diet... .D.E.: Try some-
thing Australian and half the length.


New Recordings
Mighty Midgets
Coronet has put out a batch
of 7in. 33j- “Gems from the
Classics.” Each is attractively
jacketed and features selec-
tions from Coronet 12in.
releases. There are many things
to admire about the “Gems”:
they are all beautifully record-
ed by, generally, top-line
instrumentalists ; they are a
nice handy size; and the
sleeves catch the eye almost
as much as the recordings
catch the ear.
On KGC 134 you’ll find
Dukas’s “Sorcerer’s Appren-
tice” and Weinberger’s “Polka”
from “Schwanda the Bag-
piper,” played by the New
York Philharmonic under
Dimitri Mitropoulos. The
Dukas piece is more assured
rhythmically than Ansermet’s
version on Decca (B. 3/ 6 / ’59).
Mitropoulos gives old clothes
a new lease of life every
department of the orchestra is
on its toes. The dotted
trumpet-passages near the end
are crisply lucid, and there is
plenty of the special cackling
tone Dukas demands from
muted instruments. One’s only
criticism is that the swing
from soft to loud is often
rather suddenly approached.
But maybe Mitropoulos follows
the logical line of thought that,
after all, this piece is one big
surprise.
As for the Weinberger: this
is an earthy little melody a
sort of peasant-song —conjur-
ing festive villagers holding
steins of beer. The theme is
filled-out with a stamping
downward brass movement
(dominant to tonic) and at the
end all the stops are out. A
gloriously picturesque welter
of sound! Engineering
throughout is first-class.
Titled “Clair de Lune,”
KGC 133 also offers the
Brahms “Lullaby,” Debussy’s
“Girl with the Flaxen Hair”
and Dvorak’s “Humoresque”
all played by Andre Koste-
lanetz and his orchestra. The
chief danger in orchestrating
piano-pieces is that such
transcriptions may do a work
more harm than good. An
orchestra can impart, for better
or worse, more sweeping
accents and greater flexibility
in crescendos. Besides, these
pieces are wonderfully attrac-
tive on the piano. Perhaps one
should leave it at that. Though
Kostelanetz is inclined to be
sentimental, the disk makes a
pleasant bit of after-dinner
music.
Hiding under a brilliant
jacket (full-color picture of
bread, grapes, wine and cheese)
Eugene Ormandy and the
Philadelphia play Tschaikow-
sky’s “Capriccio Italien the
disk is numbered KGC 130.
This work is widely known,
and it remains only to observe
that the initial trumpet-calls
are beautifully handled, with
just the right amount of martial
surliness. In fact, the whole
thing is pretty well done.
A couple of points: an un-
mistakable (and unforgivable)
momentary rubato from the
strings early on the first side ;
and the pleasing slowness of the
big first theme —nicely in keep-
ing with the measured tread of
marching feet. On the second
side the trumpets again fling
themselves about, followed by
the rhythmic tintinnabulations
of the castanets. Patriotic,
melodious music.
There’s more Tschaikowsky
on KGC 135 ; Ormandy and
the Philharmonic again, this
time presenting the “Love
Theme” from “Romeo and
Juliet,” the waltz from “Sere-
nade for Strings” and the
theme from the first movement
of the Sixth Symphony. The
“Love Theme,” in its sallow
beauty, is a foil for the frisky
charm of the “Waltz” ; these
two complete one side.
The Sixth Symphony theme,
on the other,' turns-out to be
merely the adagio section of
an adagio-allegro movement.
Still, since the symphony is
known as “Pathetique,” per-
haps this fragmentary melody
is a fajr guide to the nature of
the whole work. Playing is
attractivfe; the recording
(allowing for a tiny “waver” on
the first side) is generally good.
Those who go for the
bewitching figuration of three
beats in a bar will go for
Ormandy and the Philadelphia,
on KGC 137, playing Lehar’s
“Merry Widow” waltz and
Waldteufel’s “Skater’s Waltz.”
One could scarcely imagine a
happier recording; there is
something strictly carefree
about waltzes, even if, as in
the “Merry Widow” one, there
may be two dominant moods.
Here, the melody is at first
plaintive before giving way to
the plush-tapestried accentua-
tion of the second mood. But
the “Skater’s Waltz,” while less
forceful in texture, is happy
throughout—a- serene happi-
ness, too.
Chopin this time —on KGC
129, Ormandy and the Phil-
harmonic have a whale of a
time with selections from “Les
Sylphides.” Six pieces are
presented. A saccharine
chromaticism permeates this
deservedly , popular music ;
maybe the “Grande Valse
Brillante” loses a little of its
essential pianistic clarity in
orchestral form —still, it’s a ton
of fun, and at no stage on the
record is the playing anything
less than excellent.
❖ +> ❖
Tabs on Tab
On Warner Bros. WS-003
(45 r.p.m.) Tab Hunter sings
two current pops. In “My
Only Love” Mr. Hunter
quickly shows that minor
things like a change of beat
can’t throw him. He has a
pleasant, rounded voice-quality,
somewhat reminiscent of early
Bing; mercifully, he doesn't
indulge in any of those peculiar
whiplash vocal effects so
esteemed by several equally
popular American singers.
Even in the fast part of “Apple
Blossom Time,” on the reverse
side, Tab remains a fresh-
voiced, nicely-articulated young
singer. One wouldn’t be sur-
prised if this record is snapped-
up quickly.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“Well, that's certainly not schoolgirl French they're using!"


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
At a special ceremony at Red Cross
national headquarters Lady Slim invested
with the Florence Nightingale Award
Commandant Phyllis Mary Daymon, of
Hobart, and Miss Patricia Downes
Chomley, director of the College of
Nursing.
Lady Slim also opened the new wing
of the Tweddle Baby Hospital, Footscray,
the guard-of-honor for her being headed
by Matron Evelyn Graham. Her Excel-
lency, who covered her sapphire-blue
silk frock with a full-length coat of dyed-
ermine, was welcomed by Lady Angliss
(whose choice was a slim black frock
and short mink jacket) and Lady Herring
(who also wore a fur coat over her frock).
The senior vice-president, Mr. A. S. H.
Gifford, said the new wing was being
opened free of debt, and already enough
money was in hand to begin the second
and third stages of the rebuilding scheme.
The Tweddle owes its origin to the work
of Sir Truby King, of New Zealand, so
it was appropriate that Lady Slim should
plant a New Zealand sophora in front
of the Tweddle pram-park. After the
ceremony Lady Angliss entertained at
supper held at the Footscray home of
Iris Williams. Among the guests were
Minister for Health Mr. Cameron, Cr.
and Mrs. Mclvor, Sir F. Kingsley Norris
and Lady Norris, Sir Clifden and Lady
Eager, Dr. Barbara Meredith, Mrs. Daisy
Springthorpe, Dr. and Mrs. Vernon
Collins, Dr. and Mrs. J. Glyn White,
Mr. and Mrs. Z. Economu, Mr. and Mrs.
K. Nesbit and Mr. Eric Walquist.
☆ ☆ ☆
In the absence of the president, Sir
Horace Robertson, vice-president Mrs.
Claude Couchman received the official
guests at a luncheon held by the Royal
Commonwealth Society in the Lower
Town Hall. Guest-of-honor and speaker
was Canadian High Commissioner
T. W. L. MacDermott. Among the
official guests were Sir Owen Dixon,
Lieut.-General E. K. Smart and Mrs.
Smart, Mr. and Mrs. T. Thornton Ward,
Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Binney.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Firm opened its season of
Shakspeare at the Comedy with “The
Merchant of Venice”—and a very satisfy-
ing opening it was, too. First - nighters
included Mr. and Mrs. H. I. Fader, Mrs.
Walter Tresise, Mrs. Eric Rogers, Mrs.
Fred Dennett, Mrs. F. H. Wright, Mr.
Heathcote Wright and his daughter
Susan, Mrs. Ronald Marriott and her
son Stephen, Sir Frank and Lady Tait,
Sir Arthur and Lady Smithers, Mrs.
Dick Noone, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Worthington, Mrs. Simon Fraser, Mr. and
Mrs. Ken Luke and old-time
Shakspearian actor - producer Allan
Wilkie. A feature of the production, from
the feminine viewpoint, was the richness
of the gowns worn by Portia, Nerissa and
Jessica.
* * *
To aid the building-appeal, the medical
staff of the Alfred Hospital, on June 30
will hold a dinner-dance at the Royale
Ballroom, under the patronage of the
Governor and Lady Brooks. President
of the committee is Dr. John Cloke.
Dinner-music will be provided by the
Royal Australian Naval Band, and Denis
Farrington’s orchestra will supply the
music for dancing. Dr. Alan Mackay
(BJ 3131), Dr. R. M. Alder (BJ 1301),
Mrs. H. B. Kay (BM 1441), and Pamela
Middleton (BY 3988) will supply entree-
cards, which are sgns. each.
Betty Stewart was for several years
publicity-officer for J. C. Williamson,
handling the promotion of such artists
as Grade Fields, Yehudi Menuhin and
Richard Crooks, and touring Europe
twice. During some of the war years she
was secretary of the Business Girls’ War
Service Bureau, which raised thousands
of pounds for war-organisations. Now
publicity-officer with the Tivoli Circuit,
Betty has been responsible for the pro-
motion of Winifred Atwell, Julia, Richard
Hearne and Sabrina, and is the first
woman to be associated with the Tivoli
command - performances, whi c h have
raised a great deal of money for charity.
Betty is a member of the St. Michael’s
Old Grammarians’ Association. She
relaxes with tennis and recordings.
The exhibition of lovely furnishings
called “My Favorite Corner,” arranged
by a number of well-known hostesses
in the Lower Town Hall, was a novel
means of raising money for the Alfred
Hospital building-appeal. Mrs. James
Buchanan, president of the women’s
committee, received the guests at the pre-
yiew, which was opened by Robin Bailey
(Professor Higgins of “My Fair Lady”).
One of the loveliest exhibits was Mrs.
Fred Dennett’s —a corner of her own
drawing-room. Mrs. Roy Grounds
furnished an unusual kitchen, so did Mrs.
Sam Woods, hers being of the French
provincial type. Fred Asmussen contri-
buted a Louis XIV salon; Mrs. John
Casson even had a Pekinese dog in a
tiny basket in her Hong Kong bric-a-
brac corner. Mrs. Simon Warrender
furnished a Florentine bedroom, Mrs.
Baillieu Myer a night-nursery which con-
tained a high brass cot with mother-of-
pearl inlay, and with a draped white
curtain at the back, tied with pink rib-
bon. Sir Rupert and Lady Clarke's Viv-
torian parlor was superb. Other exhibi-
tors were Mrs. George Vasey, Mrs. R. G.
Casey, Thomas Harrison and Philip Law.
t ☆ ☆ ☆
Como, the historic Armytage mansion
in South Yarra, will be open to the
public during the first two weekends in
July. Originally the homestead of a
company-owned cattle-station, it has been
continuously owned by members of the
Armytage family for almost a century.
The outward appearance of the house
has changed little through the years, and
it remains today a gracious reminder of
the earliest period of Victoria’s settle-
ment. Como is to be acquired for the
National Trust, and the “open house”
has been arranged by the Como women’s
committee to raise funds for this pur-
pose. A special feature will be the display
of flower-arrangements exhibited by Mrs.
John Fitts, Mrs. Lindsay Plant, Mrs.
Derek Rumbold and others. Mrs. T.
Buesst, Mrs. G. Paterson, Mrs. W.
Lempriere, Mrs. G. Adams, Miss L.
Henderson and Miss E. Tatnall are mem-
bers of the committee. Visiting hours
will be from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 4
and 11, and from 12 noon to 5 p.m. on
July 5 and Admittance will cost
adults ss. and children Is.
# # #
A number of entrants have already been
announced for the Miss Summer Festival
Quest of 1959. Two years ago the
first Quest raised more than £3OOO, and
the one in 1958 brought in £22,217, the
money going to the Royal Children’s
Hospital. Winner of this year’s Quest
will get a trip to the U.S. in the
Mariposa and £2OO spending-money in
dollars and Australian currency. This
time the Quest was launched at a buffet-
dinner party and dance at the East St.
Kilda home of executive-committee
chairman Cr. A. C. Watson and Mrs.
Watson (she is chairman of the Summer
Festival ball-committee, and wore a full-
skirted frock of forest-green velvet). Lady
Murdoch, president of the Children’s
Hospital board of management, high-
lighted her short black frock with a
daffodil-yellow stole.
Mrs. Ernest Greenhalf, organiser of
the Quest, wore a frock of cinnamon-
brown French-lace with tiny bows trim-
ming the deep neckline, the sheath-skirt
featuring a floating-panel. Other guests
were Mr. and Mrs. Walter Peterson
(Scoresby), Mr. and Mrs. A. Ireland (she
in a short frock of emerald-green satin),


Diane Watson (her frock of brown silk-
organza), Mr. and Mrs. Keith Black (the
latter’s short black frock having white
flowers embroidered on skirt and bodice),
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Watson, Jean
Carter and Betty Stewart.
SYDNEY
Sydney took on the charm of a foreign
place last week, and even the most prosaic
journey on the underground became an
adventure . . . There was a suggestion
of France in the sight of pot-plants ranged
along the window-sills of a station-
master’s office, said to be the feminine
touch of its occupant (surely one of the
first women to fill such a post?), and
New Guinea and Japan were conjured
up so vividly that it was a little difficult
to come back to reality at the end of
the day.
•Cr * *
Queen’s Birthday celebrations brought
a reassuring sense of national pride;
particularly when members of the British
Commonwealth Society met on Saturday
night at their Bligh Street rooms to honor
the occasion. They were welcomed by
committee-chairman Alec Rigby and his
wife (her black chiffon evening-dress was
worn under an ermine coat) and by vice-
chairman Colonel G. E. Colvin and Mrs.
Colvin (a silver-grey cloche offset her
dress of muted-peacock wool). Mrs. Fred
Daniell, wife of the secretary, was also
busy helping to make the party a jolly
one, with the aid of fellow-members Mr.
and Mrs. Arthur Beckingsale (she in frock
and matching-jacket of fine black wool,
embroidered and beaded), Mr. and Mrs.
L. A. Scott, and Mr. and Mrs. J. A.
Stevenson (he being warmly congratu-
lated on his inclusion in the Birthday
Honors list). Sir William and Lady
Durrant brought along their daughter,
Mrs. D. Weaving, who is over from her
Swan Hill home on holiday. Younger
members at the reception included
Geraldine Thorley and Joyce Game, who
had as their guests Jan Bruce and Jean
Eslick.
☆ ☆ ☆
New Guinea was brought right into
the room at the monthly Literary
Luncheon, when guest-speaker was Beth
Dean. Her vivid word-pictures of the
island and its people were the result of
a visit made there recently with her
photographer-husband, Victor Carell. The
couple made a documentary-film of their
journey and also wrote a book, Softly,
Wild Drum. As well as demonstrating
how a conch-shell is used to call fisher-
men in from the sea (it sounded very
like a Manly ferry on a foggy morning).
Miss Dean rather dispelled the so-called
glamor of the tropics when she described
some native customs. She explained that
once a native woman married she became
just a drab wren in her dressing. No
more bright colors or jewellery could be
worn, or her husband would become
suspicious of her virtue. Yet the husband
continued his life as before, enjoying
gaiety and feminine company, and court-
ing until he had collected the other four
wives allowed him by native law.
New treasurer of the Literary
Luncheon committee, which raises funds
for the N.S.W. Society for Crippled
Children, is Mrs. John Barriskill, of
Woollahra. President is Mrs. Dundas,
Allen, of Bellevue Hill, who would be
pleased to welcome guests at the next
luncheon, when popular actress Googie
Withers will be the speaker. This will
be held on July 14, at the Royal Com-
monwealth Society, in Bligh Street,
Sydney, and luncheon charge is 12s. 6d.
Jacqueline Van-Gelder, who is doing
an Arts course at Sydney University, has
just become engaged to John Donnan,
the wedding being planned for January.
She is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
J. Van-Gelder, of Ashfield, and the lovely
jade pendant Jacqueline is wearing is an
heirloom from her grandmother, Mrs.
Van-Gelder. John, who is the son of
Mrs. A. V. Donnan, of Croydon, is
studying dentistry. Photo by Norton
Trevairs.
At the Sukiyaki Room, with a
pleasantly-muted background of Japanese
music, visitors wandered around an
exhibition of etchings by Willy Seiler,
sampled sake with their servings of
delicious food, and directly helped the
cause of deaf and blind children by
buying etchings and catalogues and
throwing coins in the wishing - well,
(where exotic fish could be glimpsed
from the willow-pattern bridge).
The exhibition was opened by Mrs.
Bill White, president of the social-
committee of the Royal N.S.W. Institu-
tion for Deaf and Blind Children. Guests-
of-honor were Sheila Bradley, of “Grab
Me a Gondola,” and her producer,
Johnny Ladd. Among those who admired
the etchings and quaint Japanese dolls
and tasted sake (and liked it) was Mrs.
Waldo Bill, who has been a keen worker
on the committee for some time. She
leaves soon with her husband in the
Southern Cross for a leisurely trip over-
seas, by way of Panama, and expects to
be away about five months. Fellow-
members who helped make the gathering
a pleasant one were Mrs. Percy Sykes,
Major and Mrs. E. H. Spence, Mrs.
Winifred Mawer, Mrs. Anthony
McSweeny, Mrs. Alan Graham, Mrs.
John Rogan and Mrs. P. Peacock-Smith.
Miss May Dunn deserved the praise she
got for her share of the organising, and
the generosity of Madam Yamasaki and
her husband, Mr. Phill Saunders, in
giving their restaurant to help the cause
was greatly appreciated.
☆ ☆ ☆
Fans and lorgnettes, evidently borrowed
from family collections, gave an old-
world air of elegance to many of the
young dancers at the Minuet Ball held
for the Mater Misercordiae Hospital at
the Trocadero. Decorations also helped
the illusion, and festoons and drapings
of filmy white net and chandeliers
(cleverly fashioned from long, narrow
strips of white paper by the hospital
staff) brought plenty of compliments to
the trio responsible for the decor: Mrs.
G. Dusseldorf, Mrs. F. Broadhurst and
Mrs. W. Wells. Effective contrast was
given by the blue uniforms of the nurses
from the hospital, who supplied the
guard-of-honor for the Governor, Sir
Eric Woodward, and Lady Woodward
when they arrived to be welcomed by
Mrs. Tom Bateman, president of the ball-
committee.
Among the 800 guests who enjoyed
the night were Dr. and Mrs. Alan
Brouggy (her amethyst-silk dress was off-
set with gold jewellery); Dr. and Mrs.
John Harrison (just back from their
honeymoon); Dr. ancl Mrs. Kevin
Malcolm ; Professor and Mrs. C. R.
Blackburn ; Mr. and Mrs. Russell Nash ;
and Mr. and Mrs. Norman Jenkyn. Mrs.
T. Ormston, as an hon.-treasurer, had a
busy night. At her table was a large
group of nurses and medical students,
among them her daughter Maureen
(wearing a pretty dress of brocaded taffeta
in pearl-pink), Miss R. Preston (in rose-
pink satin), and Mr. Ron Smith.
v *
A highlight of the week for many of
us was meeting Danny Kaye at a press-
reception soon after his arrival.
Unanimous opinion seemed to be that
he was even more entertaining than when
seen on a film, and possessed a complete
naturalness and down-to-earth quality
sure to appeal to most Australians.
Those who believe hands to be
character-revealing would find his par-
ticularly intriguing, suggesting the artistic,
sensitive and imaginative, and with a very
strong and practical “head line.” As
star of the film “The Five Pennies,”
Danny will make a personal appearance
on stage when the film has its world-
premier on June 25 at the Prince Edward
Theatre. The Royal Blind Society and
the Poliomyelitis and Physically Handi-
capped Society will benefit from the
presentation.
Sir John and Lady Tait came over
from Melbourne to welcome the visitor,
and will stay here for his season, return-
ing home only for a flying visit to attend
the Shakspearian season, which opened
at the Melbourne Comedy last weekend.


have no right to speculate on the
nature of the universe.
And what, then, is the right thing?
Oddly, after plodding down this
narrow track, insisting on the
“subordination” of the arts, denying
the validity of so much great art which,
for its essential spirituality, a broader
viewpoint might be glad to affirm,
tending always (in spite of his careful
qualifications) towards abstraction and
repression, . McAuley emerges in the
end “out of the Romantic-modernist
cavern” into “the broad and high world
of Virgil and Chaucer and Dante and
Shakspeare, where the true proportions
of things are recognised and the pre-
sumption of men is corrected by the
measures of the gods.” Obviously when
he comes 'out of his own cavern, of
distrust for everything that is not
rigidly formal and specifically Catholic.
McAuley’s viewpoint can be broad
enough. He has in fact discovered,
though he hardly recognises it in these
terms, that the greatest poetry has
always been narrative and dramatic,
irrespective of the religion of its
author.
Douglas Stewart.
Peter Pindar
Now that James Boswell has taken
to writing a new book about himself
every year or so almost everybody
else in the biographical line has been
tempted also to write about him; and,
with Mrs. Thrale. Wilkes and Johnson
himself frequently done-over as well,
the Johnsonian circle has lately had
a pretty thorough revival. For that
reason it is refreshing, in Tom Girtin’s
Doctor with Two Aunts (Hutchinson),
which is a biography of Dr. John
Wolcot, otherwise “Peter Pindar,” to
see a resuscitation of an 18th century
notability who revolved largely out-
side the Johnsonian radiance round a
lamp of his own.
Peter Pindar’s personal encounters
with Johnson were not very important,
though he met him often enough when
they dined with Reynolds. Ferocious
on paper and ribald among his own
cronies, Pindar seems to have been
modest and diffident when meeting
anyone really formidable. He dared
not be ribald in Johnson’s presence
and, having once ventured an opinion,
deliberately to see if Johnson would
contradict him, which the doctor
promptly did with great vehemence —
Pindar said he thought a certain
picture of Reynold’s was one of his
best, and Johnson at once said it was
his worst—he subsided for ever.
He did, however, make some notable
literary use of his contacts with the
group; being, in fact, one of the first
writers ever to cash-in on the ever-
profitable game of attacking Boswell.
In the course of his interminable flow
of satires he wrote, in verse, a “Con-
gratulatory Epistle to James Boswell
on his ‘Journal of a Tour to the
Hebrides’ ” and, the same year,
“Bozzy and Piozzi,” which, though
Girtin thinks it was dull, contained at
least two memorable lines on Johnson:
Thus round his orb the pigmy
planets run
And catch their little lustre from the
sun.
“Bozzy and Piozzi” was so popular
that it ran into ten editions in two
years. Which proves that if you can’t
be a great writer yourself, the next
best way to notoriety is to attack one:
not that Johnson, at any rate, wasn’t
fair game.
But these were only passing episodes
in Peter Pindar’s long career in satire;
and if banging Boswell was a profit-
able sideline, the real foundation of
his reputation was his series of assaults
on George 111 which everybody, in-
cluding the Prince of Wales, found
delightful and which, because he was
able to recreate to the life the king’s
fantastic mannerisms and the absurdi-
ties of his public appearances, had a
great deal of genuine merit. Here,
immortally pickled in Pindar’s satire,
is poor old George stuttering around
Whitbread’s brewery, indulging his
passion for useless information:—
To Whitbread now deign’d majesty
to say
“Whitbread, are all your horses fond
of hay?”
“Yes, please your majesty,” in
humble notes
The brewer answered, “Also, sir,
of oats:
Another thing my horses too main-
tains
And that, an’t please your majesty,
are grains.”
“Grains, grains,” said majesty, “to
fill their crops?
Grains, grains that comes from
hops—yes, hops, hops, hops.”
Here was the King like hounds
sometimes at fault.
“Sire,” cried the humble brewer,
“give me leave
Your sacred majesty to undeceive:
Grains, sire, are never made from
hops, but malt.”
“True,” said the cautious monarch
with a smile,
“From malt, malt, malt —I meant
malt all the while.”
Even if he hadn’t been a satirist, a
patron of the arts and a companion
of the great in London, Pindar—or
Dr. Wolcot, as we would then have
thought of him—would still have made
a lively subject for a biography, for he
did quite a lot of remarkable things
before he ever came to London.
He was born in Devonshire, largely
brought-up by two aunts, and first
distinguished himself, though this story
may be doubtful, by shooting a
cobbler who annoyed him with a
pistol loaded with bullock’s blood. A
certain gruesome capriciousness seems
certainly to have been part of his
character, for afterwards we meet him
at a picnic by a river when, the other
members of the party (including the
girl he was in love with) having gone
for a walk in the woods, he ate the
entire pie they had brought for their
lunch and, disappearing, left in its
stead an exceedingly crude piece of
verse jeering at both his beloved and
a lady of the party who had a lame
leg:—
I therefore have compos’d this card
To say that I have laboured hard
To eat the beef and to devour
The pie which was confounded sour
And that I’m gone t’escape a
rattling
From Sukey and the widow waddling.
It is hardly surprising that Sukey
declined to marry him. Wolcot. when
he composed these lines, was 26. and,
as Girtin says, hardly grown-up.
With few qualifications, except
that he had been trained as an
apothecary’s assistant, he got himself
(by writing and asking for it) a degree
of Doctor of Medicine from Aberdeen
University; but before he had time to
do much damage with it —actually, as
a firm believer in “fire, flannel and
brandy” for all human ailments, he
seems later to have done quite well
as a doctor—he got a chance to go
out to Jamaica and. so he hoped,
make his fortune as physician to the
Governor. Fortune in medicine proving
elusive, he took the only more profit-
able sinecure the Governor was able
to offer and become rector of the
Parish of St. Anne (in Jamaica). His
qualifications for this were rather
slighter than for medicine, since he
had no belief whatsoever in orthodox
religion. However as his congregation
consisted sometimes of “a cow, a
jackass, an old soldier and two
negroes” and usually of a solitary
negro whom he used to bribe to go
away and let him go shooting, it is
probable that he didn’t do much harm
there either.
His career as a satirist, mixed with
strange medicine, began when he re-
turned to England and settled at
Truro in Cornwall. But he made the
mistake of satirising, chiefly, the town
council, which nobody can do with
impunity in a small country town;
and, in consequence, he was ducked,
thrashed, prosecuted, pulled by the
nose, whacked with a cane and,
though after one look at his opponent
in the early morning light he apolo-
gised and got out of it, threatened with
a duel. Naturally the idea occurred
to him that he would be wise to move
to London.
The opportunity came when, in his


capacity as a connoisseur of the arts
(upon which Girtin does not lay
sufficient stress) he discovered the wild,
uncouth young Cornish painter John
Opie; a feat which will ever stand to
his credit. It was arranged that they
should move to London together,
sharing whatever income Peter Pindar
—as we can now call him —should
make from his satires and Opie from
his paintings. Launched as a sort of
Wild Man from Borneo, with green
feathers in his hair, Opie made a great
deal of money; and after a year, when
he was about to be married, he seems
to have thought twice about sharing
it with Pindar—at any rate, without
undue animosity, they parted . . . each
to his separate fame.
Pindar, though at one stage he was
reduced to accepting a pension from
the Government, on the somewhat
confused understanding either that he
was to write in their favor or merely
to suppress his attacks on them, made
plenty of both money and fame. He
wrote the libretto of an opera for
Haydn; he collaborated with Burns in
an album of English and Scottish
songs; he dined with Nelson and
Emma Hamilton (both of whom he
had most rudely attacked—in fact he
had implied that Emma was a prosti-
tute); he troubled the Duke of Leeds
by satirising his nose (“But why attack
my nose, sir; why attack my nose?”);
he fought, with a cane, a famous duel
with William Gifford, known as the
“Battle of the Bards”; he was accused,
at the age of 69, of committing
adultery with his landlady; and alto-
gether, with his ferocity in print and
his joviality in conversation, liberal
at all times in the application of fire,
flannel and brandy, he seems to have
got through life pretty comfortably.
Girtin’s book would have been
better if he could have avoided a few
patches of amateur Freudian detective-
work. There is very little evidence
that the two aunts were the cause of
all this —lots of people have aunts
without becoming Peter Pindar —and
it is most unfair to smear a man’s
character, as Girtin occasionally does,
with some Freudian supposition, then
wipe out the smear but leave a faint
trace of it remaining. He does not
fully bring Pindar to life; but on the
whole the book is very readable and
entertaining.
The Great Idol
The enormous lump of stone who
is the hero of The Great Idol of
Tiahuanco, by H. S. Bellamy and P.
Allan (Faber) is thought to be one
Pachamama, a sort of earth-mother
or fertility-goddess of the prehistoric
culture of South America. First dis-
covered by an American archaeologist,
Wendell Bennett, who unearthed her
in 1932 but left her lying in a ditch
to be trampled upon by tourists, she
is how standing in the Open - air
Museum in La Paz, Bolivia. She is
24ft. high and weighs about 20 tons.
The theory propounded by Bellamy
and Allan is that, like the great gate-
way of the Temple of Kalasasaya
which they investigated in a previous
book, the goddess is essentially a
calendar. The “glyphs” or bas-reliefs
with which she is liberally adorned
prove her, they say, to be some years
older than the gate and to describe
a strange period in the earth’s history
when a satellite—not to be confused
with a sputnik, but a predecessor of
our present moon—rushed 425 times
round the globe in a year of 288 days.
While other archaeologists date the
prehistoric American monuments at
about a.d.600, these intrepid authors
put the period back to 27,000 years
ago.
This is all in accordance with
Hoerbiger’s theory which maintains
that the moon’s predecessor was
originally an independent planet which
the earth rashly “captured,” with the
result that it whizzed round us faster
and faster and faster until eventually
it fell on us. In periods when its
revolution round the earth coincided
with the earth’s own rotation it was,
as it were, “anchored” above us, with
the consequence that it drew the air
up into an air-hill and the water up
into a water-hill; and the airless parts
of the globe, unprotected from spatial
cold, froze into the Ice Age.
When, however, the satellite in its
increasing speed could no longer be
held at anchor and whizzed faster and
faster around us, it drew the air and
water into “girdle tides” about the
earth and that is what caused the sub-
merging of continents and, coupled
with the turmoil as it began to fall
to pieces, the destruction of the pre-
historic civilisations. If one remembers
the theory rightly, the same thing is
going to happen in the end to our
own moon.
Viewing all this commotion in the
heavens with natural concern, the
South American savants, according to
these authors, set about recording the
phenomena in a sort of picture-writing
on the gate, the idol and other monu-
ments; and indeed if you assume a
condor’s head to represent a solar
eclipse, the 40 fish-heads to indicate
“the obliquity of the ecliptic” and so
on, it does seem possible, as the
authors demonstrate with infinite in-
genuity, to interpret the idol as a
calendar which, allowing for minor
discrepancies, bears out Hoerbiger’s
theory. But it also seems possible,
if the condor does not represent an
eclipse and the fish-heads have nothing
to do with obliquity, that they are
altogether on the wrong track. Readers
capable of tackling the extremely for-
midable and mathematical book may
be able to form their own judgment.
Prize for TV Play
The Sydney Journalists’ Club £5OO
award this year is to be given for the
best television-play written by an
Australian or a resident of Australia.
Entries will be judged by a panel
nominated by the three N. S. Wales
television stations.
“The prize will be awarded for a
play’s intrinsic merit as a play, and
entrants are not required to have any
technical knowledge of television.”
Hints on television writing prepared
by Royston Morley of ATN will be
sent, together with entry-forms, by the
Manager, Journalists’ Club, 36-40
Chalmers St., Sydney. Closing date,
November 30, 1959.
Reviewed Briefly
Contact Mr. Delgado: James Pattin-
son (Harrap). A cloak-and-dagger
yam. The hero, Harvey Landon, an
English adventurer “with broad
shoulders and bony face, cold blue
eyes and a mouth that was like the
gash of a knife,” runs into trouble in
a South American republic and later
on the high seas. He has previously
performed the surprising feat of going
from Oxford University into the Royal
Navy.
« * * *
South of 96th: Terence Kennedy
(Wingate). The story of the rise of
a girl from the Bronx to a high posi-
tion in New York’s “rag trade.” It
is a crude, hard and sad story, told
here without pity or finesse.
* * * *
Night of Violence: P. V. Barrington
(Hammond, Hammond and Co.).
David Bradbury found his wife lying
on the floor in the early hours of the
morning, murdered by an unknown
assailant. He couldn’t remember
coming home that night, but he could
recall having a violent quarrel with
her before he left the house to go to
a regimental reunion-dinner, where he
had too much to drink. He isn’t sure
whether his subconscious has taken
over and he has done the deed himself
and the police wonder the same thing.
It makes an ingenious crime-story with
well-drawn characters.


ClM*
>N^ 1
nw2&:
a*
«ii
?***&>.
-r
. '. . . • \„ r ?
-fyuil^>mernX7...
WALKER PROCESS
CIARWLOW THICKENERS
Armco's compact and efficient clarification plant, with
chemical mixing at left followed by flocculation and finally
clarification* Equipped by Wqlker Process with Rapid-
Mix unit, four vertical F. S. flocculation units and two
CLARIFLOW Thickeners.
ARMCO SAVES WATER
RECLAIMS OVER 10 MGD!
By reclaiming over 10 MGD of waste water
Armco's Clarification Plant at Middeltown,
Ohio assures an adequate supply of cooling
and process water for its steel mill operations.
Walker Process CLARIFLOW Thickeners
installed in two tanks 80'-0" dia. by 15'
s.w.d. handle 6000 gpm each, and are
designed to operate at twice this rate under
overload conditions. In addition to water
conservation, the CLARIFLOW units permit
reclamation of approximately 20-40 tons
per day of iron rich scale.
Engineering and manufacturing knowledge,
plus experience gained on a variety of
industrial waste treatment problems is
offered to help solve your next project.
Write for literature.
Manufactured under Licence by
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. ltd.
* BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA
Interstate
Agents i
N.S.W.: Alfred SnashaU Pty- Ltd., 500 Kent Street, Sydney
Vic-: Thomson & Carroll Pty. Ltd., 792 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
S.A.j Mining Supplies (S.A.), 622 South Road, Edwardstowa
