

The Bulletin
The Coast-watchers— page
Wednesday, August 12, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


BOOKIIUNTRK, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find It. for you lictmu,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tee only if successful.
The Red Page
HORSEMASTERSHIP
“And yet ’ow few there is wot really
knows anything about the matter!”
On the question of horsemanship,
these words of John Jorrocks are
immortal. By paradox, now that we
are fully mechanised, the verdict has
lost a little of its bite. There are
fewer who pretend to know anything
about horsemanship, but those who
follow the art are considerably more
knowledgeable than their casual fore-
bears.
The reason for this lies in a new
outlook which has sprung-up and finds
expression in such a book as Australia
Astride, by Desmond Martin (Angus
and Robertson). Now that such advice
is available, there’s no excuse for
present-day children (or adults, for
that matter) not knowing all there is
to know about seat and style, the. aids,
jumping, work-riding, race-riding on
the flat or over the sticks, buckjump-
ing, camp-drafting, trick-riding and
every item of saddlery and equipment.
This book could be as important as
Fillis’s classic on breaking and riding
—and it’s much easier to read.
The author shows how the Australian
seat is rightly “governed by the for-
ward impulse. The weight and drive
of the rider aTe all forward. His
heel is down, his grip perfect. His
hand is forward and as low as the
circumstances will permit. No weight
comes on the horse’s mouth, and the
‘shouldering’ ” (the author is discussing
a photograph of Archie James camp-
drafting) “is achieved almost entirely
by neck-reining.” The security and
ease of such a seat under heavy strain
are such that the rider can give his
mind entirely to what he is doing and
need not bother about his horse at all.
This idea of the forward seat is
brought further into consideration
when the author discusses jumping.
He starts by enunciating these prin-
ciples:—
1. Before the rider’s body can be
in balance with that of his horse, it
must be in balance within itself:
2. Before it can properly respond to
the aids, the horse must be balanced:
3. As the speed increases, so must
the rider’s body move forward in
relation to the point of contact:
4. The closer the rider’s body to that
of the horse, the better the balance
of the.whole.
He makes the important proviso
that the rider may be in balance either
when sitting upright or crouched on
his horse’s neck, and that the horse
may be in balance, whether collected
or extended. From that point he goes
on to review jumping in the hunting-
field and show-ring, on the racecourse
or just impromptu.
Martin’s example of “impromptu
jumps” is worth quoting. He was at
home on leave in 1940, when his
father (aged 70) was called-out by
telephone to deal with a bushfire:: —
He set out with an axe in one hand
and a water-bag strapped to his
saddle, a Kinnear Bulldog with 3in.
knee-pads. I put on a cavalry saddle
universal and thrust four beaters into
the rifle-bucket, strapping my water-
bag on the other side. The fire was
on the opposite boundary of a large
old property that had been recently
sold and, to our great surprise, the
new owner on our side of the sub-
division, a non-resident, had locked
the gates. Nothing daunted, the Boss
flew the post-and-rails by the light
of a very'fitful moon, but I lost him
in the first paddock when the moon
blacked-out. Ultimately, having
jumped in and out of three sets of
stockyards, I met him at the fire. He
had gone one better than me, by
cutting-out the stockyards and leap-
ing a new barbed-wire fence outlined
by the flames. This had effectively
turned me, but then I wasn’t the
Captain of the Bush Brigade.
On race-riding—hurdles, steeple or
point-to-point—Martin is at his best,
and full of sound advice for the young
idea. The chapter on tradition, taste
and commonsense tells young people
what to wear and when to wear it.
Martin suggests that at the Royal
Shows the old Australian tradition of
wearing steeplechase-colors rather
than hunting “pink” should be revived.
In the North, where there are few hunt-
clubs, this would certainly be a good
idea —particularly when the weather is
warn. Tasmania, Victoria and South
Australia may prefer the scarlet, but
it’s easier for a spectator to look for
the colors he knows than to search
through his programme to check
numbers and see who’s wearing them.
This book helps anyone concerned
with riding horses, from bushman to
show-rider. It is written by a man
who claims to have fallen out of
almost every type of saddle in most
circumstances and so stamps himself
a true horseman.
R. G.
A Fishing Book
George Patterson has hit on a good
title in Chasing Rainbows (K. G.
Murray Publishing Co., Sydney), his
book about trout-fishing in New
South Wales; and his artist has painted
him a very handsome dustjacket where
the angler, not inappropriately, is
making a beautiful long cast right into
the teatree on the far bank.
There are also, scattered through the
text as chapter-headings, some pleasant
little black-and-white illustrations
which, if the picture of the “chalet”
at W. P. Bluett’s at Brindabella (where
the tree-creepers used to fly in in the
mornings and hunt the moths and
tarantulas out of the rafters) doesn’t
give much idea of the loftiness among
which the hut is perched, add to the
general attractiveness of the book; as
also do (in color) one of Patterson’s
oil-paintings of Kosciusko from the
Geehi Hut and a photograph of the
Geehi rapids at the crossing to Tom
Groggin.
And, in these pleasant surroundings,
George Patterson’s fishing-yarns are
pretty good, too. Some of them are
rather thin and scrappy, and the whole
book could have been expanded; but,
then, you get the story of the visitor
who caught a 13-pounder in the lake
at Kosciusko with a lump of dough;
and the time the sudden flood after
the cloudburst caught the author on
the wrong side of the Snowy below
Island Bend; and the time Professor
McLuckie proved that a seemingly
empty pool was teeming with fish by
throwing the gleaming silver-and-red
lid of a cigarette-tin into it —“Immedi-
ately, from almost every corner of the
pool, trout darted over to the sinking
tin; then, realising that they had been
fooled, they darted back into the
shadows”; and the dour old Scot who
caught them with a big salmon-fly
with a grasshopper on it; and kanga-
roos quietly feeding by night outside
the Geehi Hut; and the story of Bob
Reid, the hermit who planted the
gladiolus-garden at Brindabella; and
bushfires at Jindabyne when “We
watched with melancholy interest as
scores of rainbow-trout floated by,
killed by the heat and the charcoal-
infested water”; and riding up from
Khancoban to fish high up on Pretty
Plain; and finding exactly the right fly
at the Platypus Pool at Yaouk when
the trout were taking “a small orange-
colored insect” (but what was the fly?);
and not being able to get a strike when
they were rising everywhere for black-
spinners on the Upper Murray . . .
and all this (with snakes, and falling
from slippery boulders and getting
wet through), slight enough as it is,
cannot fail to please other trout-
fishermen in New South Wales —
partly because any fisherman’s stories
are worth hearing; partly because
listening to George Patterson’s makes
you remember your own; chiefly
because the book recalls and describes
the high country they all know so well.
Other fishermen, too, will share
Patterson's feelings about the necessity
for conservation of the trout and the
(Continued on page 58)


INTERNATIONAL
PICK-UPS AND PANEL-VANS
The answer to every light transport problem.
, * *
"
T)
1 ™ SSSISjB? #■'**** K r s;m i
I
l^ ; ' u *' 1 _ v ,~.-. f. j
$ Xi. j
Islllf i & M i
M&t
y* Hi®H
“ : V
Wwm*
i
«i
■ -
if:
SOI
*•«
l«i»!Mfl
«- ss i
;;• :
?
• Jrtr S9E • iJCi
■ - '■' 4 sS"r
I f * „ 8
£
|ijs
l||lf
■m
m
%- -*
as? •
~
*
li
;
1
1§
S
1
/r
-f
•; ■ •
?A-
-JP
■ ili;
/
*
i
■N
i! , M
*
*>*•
:fi
~5*
\i
#*
* m
m
£,'?■>
m
■ pm
■
: ■
■ '
V
■l
-'V
si
SHi
WMMI
m
Here is the greatest range of light-
weight trucks in Australia today,
designed and built here to suit
Australian conditions.
International Pick-ups and Panel-
vans are built to take the toughest
treatment.
Entirely new design, Australian
Blue-Diamond engines, roomier cabs,
more carrying capacity are all part of the
International Pick-up and Panel-van story. Four-wheel
drive models are available for difficult off-highway conditions.
See your nearest IH Office now for all the details of this mighty lightweight range
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT-329/38


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 12, 1959
Vol. 80—No. 4148
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
RUSSIA AND REALITY
TF there is a real loosening-up of
relationships between Russia and
the United States there is room for
rejoicing. But, unfortunately, no matter
what his general behavior, Khrushchev
merely has to show a little joviality
and the press seems satisfied that
the world is on the way to a millenium
of peace, oblivious of the fact that in
Moscow fine words butter no parsnips.
It is certainly a nice change to have
Khrushchev agreeing to visit Washing-
ton, and particularly to have Mr.
Eisenhower invite him thither, because
it was hard to say in the past few
months which has been the more sour
and threatening. Washington would
have no summit peace-conference
unless everything pointed to the possi-
bility that Russia would surrender its
views. It went into the Geneva confer-
ence with reluctance, almost assuring
failure by its pessimism, and obvi-
ously hipped by the fact that the lead
had been taken out of its hands by
Mr. Macmillan. The conference has
been kept going to the last largely by
the insistence and resource of Mr.
Selwyn Lloyd, in the face of the sneers
of the American press all the time
encouraging the West Germans and
the French to resist any ideas put
forward from Westminster.
Indeed, looking over the history of
the past. few months since Mr. Mac-
millan went to Moscow, it is rather
hard for a man from Mars to decide
whether the objective of some Ameri-
can activities was to compromise
with Moscow or to prevent the British
and other European countries taking
the diplomatic lead. But while
Khrushchev has threatened the
Americans and American generals
have shouted what they will do to
him if they have to twist his tail, and
President Eisenhower has sat in his
tent saying next to nothing that meant
anything, real progress has been made
at Geneva in that Moscow has been
forced to the view that it cannot get
away with its plans for Berlin without
war with the Western world.
The visit of Mr. Nixon to Moscow
during the American Exhibition has
seen a very marked change in the
Russian public attitude —a change so
sudden that it is difficult to believe in
its reality. This is attributed generally
to the tough personality of Mr. Nixon,
who apparently talks the same
language as Comrade Khrushchev, if
with different intent and purpose. Both
sides have become forthcoming. Mr.
Eisenhower is going to Europe to
consult his Allies, whereas always
before it has been the fashion that any
Allies must cross the Atlantic to
Washington. Mr. Khrushchev has
decided that he will welcome the
chance of going to the United States,
though as yet it remains to be seen
whether the real intention behind this
is to bully the American people on
the spot or to do on a large scale
another piece of gladhanding, like Mr.
Mikoyan a few months ago, accom-
panied by the usual Communist double-
talk.
There is still no change in the mean-
ing of the Russian-spoken word
“peace”; when uttered by a Com-
munist it means only peace obtained
by world-revolution or Communist
conquest and the obliteration of all
opposition to the ruling Communist
junta by its armed forces.
TT is to be hoped that the inter-
changes will bring about a loosening-
up of relationships. But it would be
an optimist who knows Communism
and who believes that the Russians
have suddenly changed their spots
under the influence of the charm of
Mr. Nixon or anybody else; that with
the blood of Hungary and Tibet still
on their hands, with uncontrite hearts
about the betrayals of the Allies in
China and in Europe, and conspiracies
against Western Governments in being
in the offices of helot Communist-
parties throughout the world, the
Kremlin has become ready to embrace
Western ways of thought and Western
standards of honor in regard to treaties
and agreements.
The whole sudden volte face could
easily be just another manoeuvre in
accordance with the Communist theory
of “ebb and flow” to meet varying
situations: one more application of the
Marxism-Leninism which Moscow
professes to use as its Bible and which
it has practised so recently in Tibet: —
Dictatorship.... is inevitable.... It does
not only mean violence, although it is
impossible without violence.
That is from the official Kremlin
edition of Lenin’s “The Deception of
the People.”
Or again:—
Soviet power has already won the
recognition of the workers of other
countries. The Latin words “Dictator-
ship of the Proletariat” are translated
.... into popular modern languages, and
now we -have shown that dictatorship
of the proletariat is Soviet power, that
power when the workers organise them-
selves and say: Our organisation is the
highest of a 11.... completely directed to
one aim—to the overthrow of capitalism.
You will not deceive us by any false
slogans, by any fetishes, such as “free-
dom,” “equality.” We recognise neither
freedom, nor equality, nor labor demo-
cracy if they are opposed to the interests
of the emancipation of labor.
And all this in the doctrine by
which Moscow professes to rule—and
by which it and its Chinese and other
Allies within the Iron Curtain do rule
—is only achievable through “civil
wars” in which the energies of revolu-
tionists , are “directed towards destroy-
ing the oppressing class” in a “struggle
against the propertied classes the
most terrible of all revolutions.” These
are Lenin’s own words, by which
Khrushchev frequently professes to be
guided.
ANY overtures must be met in full
recognition of this fact, and of the
facts so evident in the infiltrations of
Asiatic countries, the endless con-
spiracies, the murders, the imprison-
ment of Russians themselves and of
the captive peoples within their awn
borders through the savage capacity for
violence of the armed forces controlled
by Moscow and Peking.
The situation needs to be seen in
the light of the reality that at this very
moment vast submerged attempts are
in progress to subvert the Western
world, and that the east of Asia is in
the grip of a surge of upheavals caused
by the attempts of Russian-based
organisations to destroy existing Gov-
ernments through sabotage of industry
and transport and, where necessary,
even civil war promoted from without,
as in Laos and Irak, or direct aggres-
sion, such as the Chinese have imple-
mented in Tibet.
It could be that an entente with
Moscow would merely mean the open-
ing of every Western country to a
flood of organised conspirators and of
Russian money for revolutionary pur-
poses.
In a minor way this happened in
Australia after the enforced entry of
Russia into the war. Never was the
Communist party so powerful; never
did it reach so deeply into govern-
ment, and never was there so much
industrial chaos in crucial industry as
between 1942 and 1949 until the
Communist - organised coal - strike
brought about the downfall of a
tolerant Labor Government and of
the Communist party itself.
With any agreements which open
the Western world to Russian leaders
must go a determination that there will
be no more Yaltas.


"THEY WENT THAT A WAY!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Enlightened Unionism
The trends of thought on unionism, as
illustrated at the management conference
in Canberra, are refreshing and evolu-
tionary. A few years ago the remarks of
some of the speakers couldn’t have been
uttered without raising, a loud storm of
protest, but now the union-leaders,
mostly engrossed in politics and in their
own domestic war over unity-tickets and
such-like and the rights of Red China,
seem hardly to have noticed.
At the end of the war most unions
were absolute dictatorships. Now the
only dictatorships left with even "qualified
power are the Communist-controlled
ones such as the Watersiders and the
Building Workers’ Industrial Union. In
coal, which used to be the spearhead of
trouble, the Communists in the lead have
only a shadow of their former authority,
and the rank-and-file are apt to disregard
them except in redundant mines.
One of the reasons why unionism is
slipping out of the hands of agitators is
that employers, with the coming of
experienced managements trained in
the idea of profit - sharing and pay-
ment by results, have begun to adopt a
more enlightened and generous attitude
to their workers, while the workers
themselves, with more leisure, better pay
and money saved are becoming what
Mr. Dedman, one of Mr. Chifley’s minor
prophets, now nearly forgotten by an
ungrateful electorate, prayed to keep out
of existence—“little capitalists” who have
learned the efficacy of bargaining on
the basis of earning-power, the costliness
of industrial trouble and of a continual
diarrhoea of disputes in the courts backed
by stoppages over nothing at all.
It is no longer possible in some trades
for the union-leadership to prevent the
payment of substantial incentives and
bonuses and issues of shares to employees.
The dead-level system, which was meat
and drink to the agitator and the
saboteur, under which the slow worker
and the first-class man and the ambitious
and the loafer were compulsorily equals,'
and eagerness to produce more was
treated as a crime against Socialism, has
ceased to exist in most trades.
The suggestions of W. I. Miskoe,
head of Lincoln Electric in Australia, to
the Institute of Management come from
a man well experienced in profit-sharing
and incentive-payments. He suggests
fixed rates of profit, avoidance of large
secret reserves which tempt the secret
take-over adventurer, sharing of profits
with workers (according to their skill and
output) to ensure that they have a stake
in the continuity of work, and the dis-
couragement by all parties of the loafer
and the agitator.
On The Sheep's Back Again?
£From Canberra]
It looks as though Australia will once
again ride on the sheep’s back in the
current financial year.
After a depressing period early in
1958-59, with wool prices at their lowest
level for 10 years, the market started to
pick-up towards the end of the year.
Now the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics has come out with a very
heartening forecast that the outlook for
wool will be much brighter, when the
new season’s sales open later this month,
than it was at this time last year.
Although production is expected to be
at record levels this year, there will be
less wool available for the market be-
cause of the comparatively small carry-
over stocks.
This could result in keener bidding
immediately for what is offered.
Another factor will be the resumption
of Russian buying at auction, following
the restoration of diplomatic relations.
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics,
in its forecast, said prospects of wool-
producer countries achieving a higher
rate of consumption within their own
borders were favorable.
In addition, demand was likely to
expand in most importing countries,
although the rate of expansion in the
United States and the United Kingdom
might be a little lower than has been
the case recently.
Already sales held in New Zealand
had confirmed a strengthening tendency
in the market, and this tendency should
continue at the Australian sales.
World wool-consumption in the first
quarter of 1959 had been at a rate equi-
valent to the annual figure of 2938-
million lb. established in 1957, but was
expected to increase to over 3000-million
lb. for this year.
The Bureau pointed out that wool was
still holding its place against competition
from synthetics, and in the early part
of this year accounted for 58 per cent,
of all apparel-fibre sales.
This was a considerable improvement
on the 56 per cent, figure of a year or
so ago. But the Bureau still warns that
wide-scale promotional and research
activities by the wool industry are
necessary to maintain its position in the
face of the challenge from synthetics.
The National H.-p. Debt
Official statistics show that the national
h.-p. debt stood at almost £350 million
on May 31. (Excluding outstandings of
trading companies which finance their
own h.-p. agreements, but including
hiring and insurance charges.)
The monthly increase in h.-p. balances
was £2.5 million in May. This figure is
well below the £7.1-million increase for
the corresponding period in 1958. Busi-
ness was slacker this year in all types of
goods except plant and machinery.
In spite of the slowing-down of the
expansion in recent months, the published
accounts of h.-p. firms generally present
a pleasant profits-picture to shareholders.
Thus Custom Credit has pushed-up
its earnings by £431,048, or 43.4 p.c.,
handing - out a handsome 2\ p.c.
“buoyancy bonus.” This brings the
year’s div.-rate to \l\ p.c.
The E., S. and A. Bank’s Esanda
improved its profits by 32.6 p.c. and the
Finance Corporation by 73.2 p.c.
The ones that didn’t face so well were:
General Credits (profits down by 17.5
p.c., for reasons explained in B. 5/8/’59),
and the smaller Lensworth Finance
(down 25 p.c.).
The performance of h.-p. companies
in the current financial year depends
largely on the. extent of consumption
savings incentives in the 1959-60 Budget.
So far nothing new has emerged to
compensate for the continuing decline of
television finance.
Kerala Takeover
The decision of the Indian Government
to take-over the government of the State
of Kerala is the biggest blow the Com-
munists have had so far in South-east
Asia.
Nehru and his followers in New Delhi
were reluctant to have anything to do
with the affair. They babbled about the
Constitutional rights of the duly elected,
but said very little about the Constitu-
tional right of the electors to be treated
as members of a free and democratic
community.
They surrendered to popular clamor in
Kerala only when it became apparent
that if they didn’t most of the population
of Kerala would finish-up in jail and
the next election would be run on Com-
munist lines and with a foregone
conclusion.
Only then did the President of India
issue a proclamation dismissing the Com-
munist Ministry of the State, dissolving
the Legislative Assembly and promising
elections as soon as possible.
It has taken seven weeks to achieve
this result, which has given proof of
the important fact that British rule and
teaching in India have not been in vain.
It would be inconceivable that a country
which had been under tyranny and
intimidation for the past century-and-a-
half, as Communist organisers have
always alleged, could have mustered-up
the spunk to behave so decisively that
within seven weeks a totalitarian Govern-
ment could have been brought to its
knees and forced out of office.
It furthermore proves that where there
is a tradition of democratic government
and free elections, Communism cannot
survive without pogrom. It thrives on
tyranny and can only get a foothold
when it has to deal with people who
submit to tyranny through habit.
The Communists were elected in
Kerala early in 1957 with a slender
majority of two. Their measures included
a cunning plan of decentralising which
would enable them to Communise the
State piecemeal, village by village, and a
scheme for taking control of education
through establishing a Government
monopoly of recruitment and payment
of teachers.
They tried to buy the poorer agri-
cultural workers through a Debt Relief
Act, which enabled peasants to pay their
commitments in long-term instalments
and which scaled-down actual debts,
other than those owing to a bank. In
addition to this they sought to pander
to the trade-unions, but the result was


that the trade-unions were in the van
of their opponents when the crisis came.
The Indian Communist party reacted
with violence and indignation, and
appears to be engaged in a nation-wide
campaign to carry-out “peaceful pro-
tests,” of the typical Communist variety,
which always end in violence. In Bengal
for instance, the Communist Opposition-
leader promised a movement similar to
that in Kerala to destroy the Bengal
Government.
Moscow has responded by turning the
other cheek and granting a substantial
rouble loan to the central Government of
India to forward its third five-year plan.
It isn’t a pleasant situation for Nehru,
who has had to eat a lot of words uttered
during the past decade, but it is even
less pleasant for the Communists, who
have lost face wherever the news has
been publicised. The reverse has been
more than usually unfortunate for them
because of the fact that they are trying
to win-over adjacent countries on either
side, like Iraq and Laos, by force or
helping others to generate force.
Cool Reception
fibroin Canberra]
Russia’s first post-Petrov Ambassador
to Australia took-up duties last week,
pro tem from a suite at Hotel Canberra.
Contrasting with the highly-publicised
departure of the Russian entourage in
1954, new Ambassador Ivan Kurdiukov
and his wife stepped from their aircraft
at Canberra airport into a typical bitterly
cold Canberra winter’s day.
If a couple of photographers hadn’t
snapped pictures of them shaking hands
with Protocol Officer G. A. Landale
(External Affairs), their arrival would
have gone completely unnoticed.
After three press interviews in Sydney
in less than 24 hours, Kurdiukov politely
refrained from making any statement on
his arrival at Canberra.
Instead, his confreres hurried him into
a waiting Commonwealth limousine, and
he was unpacking his bags at the Can-
berra less than half-an-hour after putting
his feet on Canberra soil.
Stepping-off the plane he had the in-
scrutable Diplomatic Smile, which is part
and parcel of the Russians’ diplomatic
training.
Robert Dalley-Scarlett
[From “A.W.”I
Internationally famous Brisbane
musician Robert Dalley-Scarlett, who
died on July 31, was a specialist on
Handel and his music ; he held the Halle
medal for Handel research (the only
Australian musician ever to gain the
honor) and had a Mus. Doc. degree
from Adelaide University.
A choral conductor for 50 years—he
founded the Brisbane Handel Society,
which gives an excellent annual per-
formance of “Messiah” —he also com-
posed orchestral, choral and piano
works; and he was well versed in
languages and history. His conversation
and manner were easygoing and
humorous: a special feature of the mid-
day meal at 8 Gloucester Street, South
Brisbane, was to hear the Doctor saying
Grace in Arabic.
His greatness lay in the dual field of
historical research and musical composi-
tion : he carried-on a tireless crusade
against charlatanism in the performing
of Handel’s music. His “Suite in 18th
Century Style” and a wonderful little
work for alto voice, “Love Came Down
at Christmas,” illustrate two sides of his
sincere and skilled craftsmanship as a
composer.
More Mischief in U.N.
It is a singular coincidence that the
plenary session of the United Nations
Assembly should have been planned for
September 15 and that Khrushchev
should have chosen that day to arrive
in Washington on his “peaceful” mission.
It is doubly singular that this alacrity
to cross the Atlantic should have
developed at a moment when the
Assembly will be about to begin its
crucial debate on whether or no Red
China shall be admitted to the U.N.
The preliminaries to this move for
admission of the Second Giant of the
Red World have been ominous—the rape
of Tibet and the stirring-up of conflict in
Indo-China, with the threat from
Moscow that if the Seato nations interfere
in preventing the seizure of that country
by rebels, war in the Far East may
spread.
It is doubly an embarrassment to the
West that India, after all the experiences
of its own Kerala State and South-east
Asia in general, should persist in raising
this matter, and at this juncture.
Last year it raised the question and
was defeated by 44 to 28, with nine
abstentions. But following the bloody
events in Tibet, the business of Kerala,
the stirring-up of armed rebellion in Laos
(obviously with Chinese backing), Nehru
has again brought-up the question with
a memorandum stating that for the last
few years India has sought the “proper
representation of China” and hoped that
the forthcoming session would remove
the existing “shortcomings and agree to
China being properly represented ... by
the representatives of the People’s
Government of China.”
Naturally this resolution has stirred
the possum in Chiang Kai-shek’s shaky
regime, which at present is supposed to
represent China, with the result that the
Assembly will face a difficult situation,
seeing that Red China appears to take
it for granted that it will have to be
admitted with all faults —including its
habit of subverting the regimes of its
fellow-members.
Two other problems will make the
session even more troublesome for those
who take part. One is an item proposed
by 25 Asian and African States to renew
the already defeated attempt to take the
Algerian situation out of French hands.
This will rouse the dander of France
properly. And the proposal of India
and Pakistan to debate the matter of the
“treatment of people of Indian origin in
the Union of South Africa” will add
QUEENSLAND CENTENARY
PAGEANT
Coinciding with the visit of
Princess Alexandra to Queensland
on the occasion of the State’s Cen-
tenary celebrations, The Bulletin
of August 26 will be an enlarged
number presenting a pageant, in
black-and-white art, prose and verse,
of life in Queensland over the past
century.
In this galaxy of talent Queens-
land authors will be featured. Rachel
Henning writes from Exmoor
station, near Bowen, in 1863; and
the following years are represented
by stories from Louis Becke, “Steele
Rudd,” lon Idriess, Randolph Bed-
ford, Vance Palmer and others.
“Banjo” Paterson and other poets
write about Queensland; and the
black-and-white art depicts life not
only in Queensland, but is often a
picture of life in Australia generally
over the period.
The entire issue of The Bulletin
of August 26 will enter into the spirit
of Queensland’s Centenary cele-
brations, and will be a historic
memento of the occasion.
Order your copies now from your
newsagent. Price, as usual, One
Shilling.
flames to the fire ; especially since it is
brigaded with a set of resolutions from
Ceylon, Cuba, Ghana, Haiti, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Malaya, the
United Arab Republic, Uruguay and
Venezuela on the subject of the “race
conflict in South Africa”—as if this
choice sampling of trouble-spots had not
enough race conflicts of their own.
Cuba, with its wholesale murder,
Ghana with its fierce intolerance
of local opposition to Government
policies, and India with the pogroms
which went on along its borders
unchecked when it secured independence
—it is the extreme of irony that this
group of intolerant Governments should
solemnly aver that South African policies
“impair the right of all racial groups to
enjoy the same rights and fundamental
freedoms” as the rest, and that the South
African position is “a grave threat to the
peaceful relations between ethnic groups
of the world.”
More and more the machinery
provided by the U.N. for unbalanced
little peoples to stir-up trouble and play
into the hands of the solid Communist
bloc grows to be a threat to the peace of
the world.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Visiting a fun-fair in a small town
in Belgium I spied a hurdy - gurdy
whizzing around to the usual brassy
music, but there was a subtle difference
—the hbrses were real. —“Sister Ellell.”
*•>
“Septulm”: Cracknels may be out, but
crackers aren’t. To the land of dollars,
doughnuts and skyscraping wheat-sur-
pluses Australia is exporting biscuits.
Two of our bakes finding favor are
cheese-crackers - and a sealed tin of
assorted afternoon-tea cookies. To
Malayan old-timers this is no surprise.
Forty years ago throughout the East this
latter Aussie pack wiped the eye of U.K.
and U.S.A. brands, while our tinned
Christmas-puddings were the undisputed
top-ranking holly-bearers on Moham-
medan and Buddhist festive occasions
as well as for Christian festivals.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“0.W.W.”: I see they’ve changed the
name of the play “The Bastard Country”
to “Fire on the Wind” and that the
film “A Town Like Alice” will be shown
in America as “The Rape o,f Malaya.”
It’s all rather confusing, so perhaps it’s no
wonder a cobber of mine announced that
his wife had gone to see “The Sin of
The Seventeenth Happiness.”
❖ ♦>
“H.C.8.”: Henry Lawson spoke very
truly when he wrote “A man’s an awful
coward when his pants begin to go,”
so it is reasonable to suspect that failure
of the exterior feminine equivalent could
cause equal dismay to its wearer. There-
fore, when I saw a young thing walking
down a Sydney street with a huge steel
safety-pin anchoring a pleat near the
hem of her plaid skirt, my susceptible
heart twanged in sympathy, although I
did wonder why she hadn’t tried to
correct the damage from inside the gar-
ment, thus making the safety-pin less
conspicuous. Remarked about it to the
wife—and promptly received that
amused: “Oh-you-poor-male” look.
From now on I won’t comment sympa-
thetically even if I see a damsel’s slacks
held up by a four-inch nail through a
braces-hole. That, too, may be the
latest fashion.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Maitri”: So that my sexagenarian
body might be more comfortably bedded
these wintry nights. I ordered by phone
a new innerspring mattress. I was a bit
shaken when it arrived. On it was
emblazoned its name “Teen-Ager,”
together with the assurance of “Perfect
Rest and Correct Postures of Growing
Youth.”
♦j* <5» ♦;«
“Hamish”: With the commencement
of the new Qantas Boeing 707 service,
it is interesting to read that airline’s
flight-schedule of 1931. The flight from
Brisbane to Camooweal, in a seven-
passenger DHSO, took two days, with an
overnight stop at Longreach. The same
flight today, in a 707, would take about
2\ hours. Qantas then had nine machines
and six pilots. To the modern air-
traveller, some of the “notes on air-
travel” seem strange. For example,
“Fresh air may be obtained by opening
the sliding window, or one of the ven-
tilators”; “Flying-cap and goggles are
unnecessary.” “All Qantas machines are
of the closed type, which provide ample
protection from the weather.” The poor
old pilot, of course, sat in an open
cockpit—no protection for him!
“You're not allowed to Walk around all day in those ridiculous jeans!"
AS LONG AS IT’S GOOD
LITERATURE
“Whether or not there are foxes in Tasmania,
or whether bushrangers loaded their firearms in
front or behind doesn’t affect the literary merit,
if any, of a narrative.” —Novelist (Q-)>
B. 17/7/’59.
The Ben Hall gang duff elephants
From off the black-soil plains,
And on their backs mount oerlikons
For holding-up the trains ;
And where they got the concrete from,
Most happily we’ve learned,
As long as it’s good literature
We need not be concerned.
The robbers plan to hold a train,
I’m very much afraid,
Upon a site where up to date
No railway-track is laid.
Although it sounds a lot of tripe,
We really cannot tell —
As long as it’s good literature, ■
Perhaps the book will sell.
Thermopylae and Cutty Sark,
Two ships of world renown,
Go racing up the ’Bidgee
To be first at Wagga town.
At times they thrash against the wind
At times they run before;
As long as it’s good literature,
We cheer them from the shore.
You know a deep-sea sailing-ship
Would certainly be wrecked
Before she got to Murray Bridge,
But why should you object ?
The poet knows such trifles
Do not mar the song he sings;
As long as it’s good literature
He’ll sail to Alice Springs ,
I take you out from Darwin
When the snow is on the ground.
We sit behind the husky dogs,
And southward we are bound.
Don’t say it sounds all tommy-rot,
We know what we can do.
As long as it’s good literature,
We'll drive with reindeer, too.
N.S.W.
H. LANGAN.


A few weeks engaged, he had en-
joyed the sensation the announce-
ment had made, but now he sat in his
chair and looked a bit lost. “What’s up,
had a row?” asked his mate. “No. But
this being engaged gets you thinking.
A man’s a mug, you know. There was I,
free, white and twenty-four. Able to
drink as much as I liked, spend my
dough how I liked, go out with the boys,
really enjoy life. Only thing was I could
never keep a girl-friend. Now, first I
give-up the beer so I can buy the ring,
then I have to keep giving it up to buy
a house. I even try to give-up cigarettes!
Wouldn’t you think that’d be enough to
satisfy any woman? I join the Medical
Benefits. Good. Kind of insurance, I
suppose. Also the Hospital Fund. And
is that enough? Does she cry quits?
Hell, no! Tonight she’s dragging me
off to the dentist, and I haven’t been for
five years. Women! ” —“Beam.”
*t* ❖ ♦>
“J.J.A.”: Mother of four is expecting
a fifth, and there’s keen lobbying amongst
the rest of the children. Says the eldest
girl, “Mummy, if it’s a boy I’m going
away to live with Nanny.” The eldest
boy vehemently declares that if it’s a
girl he’s leaving home. Husband remarks
philosophically, “Whatever happens, it
looks as though we’re going to cut even.”
❖ *t+ ***
“Cece”: Anything goes for a celebra-
tion up North. According to the “New
Guinea Courier” they turned on the
cocktails to celebrate the opening of
“Niall’s Arcade” —better known as the
brand-new toilet-block behind the Lae
Administration building. It was a great
success, but according to the grapevine
most of the Administration staff just
simply couldn’t wait for the ceremony.
“Emily”: “Swelpme” has a point (B.
22/7/’59) when he complains of the
Yanks tinkering with placenames, but is
he right about St. Louis? I know Crosby
and Co. always sing “St. Looey woman
—with her diamond rings,” but isn’t that
probably to avoid the sibilance that is
the kiss of death to crooners? I remem-
ber as a kid playing over and over that
old record of the “Two Black Crows”
which begins “All aboard for Natchez,
Cairo and St. Louis —huff huff.” The
Louis was pronounced Lewis, and Cairo,
incidentally, was Care-o.
* * *
“C.A.L.”: To go into the city with
Dad by car of a morning always meant
being ready so that he could leave home
punctually at 7.45 a.m., otherwise he
would “miss his tree.” We had no idea
what this arboreal specimen was, but
the secret was discovered when we rode
with him one morning to the spot where
he parked his car on the city fringe
beneath a beautiful shady kurrajong
growing on the footpath. His morning
worry was the fear of having his park-
ing-spot pinched. Moreover, on the
kerbside he had crayonned marks to
indicate the exact place to park his car
“A slight change for the better, Doctor."
at various seasons of the year so that
it would receive the maximum amount
of shade. Now, however, Dad’s tree and
all others in the street have been up-
rooted to make way for the widening
of the road, and a “No Parking” zone
has been proclaimed. Dad has found a
new tree further out, and has begun his
astronomical computations anew, though
these will be of little use till the small
quantities of fertiliser he spreads around
the seedling Queensland Box each week
have had a marked effect on the young
tree.
“Sussex”: In Gloucester Street, Sydney,
which for many years connected York
Street North and Grosvenor Street, but
which has now been completely cut by
the Cahill Expressway, the “A”s and the
“halves” have both staked a claim
among the street numbers. One dwelling
is numbered 153 A and two doors away
stands 155 y. Gloucester Street also con-
tains one of the oldest occupied buildings
in Sydney ; this is Susannah Place, which
bears the date 1844.
♦Jt VJI *?*
“Hamish”: Just as well color-TV
hasn’t reached Australia or one of our
announcers would have telecast a very
red face. Broadcasting a session for a
real-estate promoter, he gave forth the
usual lyrical copy, and then played a
record. After the second verse of the
song, the disk was abruptly terminated.
I wasn’t surprised, as it was a sea chanty,
and in the second verse was a reference
to “land sharks.”
* * *
“Ailsey”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) is trying
hard to get an autonomous university
established in the area—it already has
its University College—and when two of
the local M.L.A.s turned-up at a meet-
ing of the sponsoring committee, each
with his right arm in plaster, someone
remarked that Parliamentary life must
be rough, not to say dangerous. There
were explanations: by J. T. Stewart that
his arm, fractured in a rooftop fall earlier
in the year, had had to be broken
again and reset, with a bone-graft for
good measure ; and by F. J. Purdue that
he had broken his wrist cranking a car.
♦♦♦
“Murray Swagman”: Can’t agree with
“Xavier” (B. 8/7/’59) that integration
of migrants must take two or three
generations. In the case of children I
put it down at half-a-generation. I know
youngsters who arrived in Australia in
1947-48 aged five to seven, and who now,
after an Australian school education, at
16 to 19 years of age, can’t be distin-
guished from Australian-born youths.
True, the older people herd together,
but school-kids are great mixers, and in
the way the youngsters are growing-up
with our native-born youngsters I see
a healthy future for Australia.
* ♦> *
“An Chuidh”: At a convention in
America of the Amalgamated Flying
Saucer Clubs, an English delegate, George
King, said he was waiting orders to
“change mountains in America.” He’s
no stranger to the job, apparently, as
“I was ordered to change nine mountains
in Scotland and found it exerting work.”
Method used to change mountains was
not stated, nor were the mountains
named. As certain clans have vested
rights in certain mountains this moun-
tain-changing could be dangerous. The
MacKenzies have an interest in Tulach


Ard, which is their warcry, as is
Sgur Urain with the Macßaes. The
Maclntyres similarly have Cruachan,
near Loch Awe, while the Grants were
wont to rush to battle shouting “Stand
fast, Craigellachie,” so woe betide anyone
who shifts Craigellachie. However,
tradition has it that King would not be
without precedent for changing moun-
tains. Michael Scott was once em-
barrassed by a demon whom he had to
keep occupied. One task Michael gave
him was to divide the Eildon Hills in
three. This the demon accomplished in
one night. I can vouch for it, as I
climbed one of the three peaks.
❖ ♦ji »:♦
“Lyle”: Coaching has become big
business right enough (B. 22/7/’59). I
found a handbill in my letter-box from
“I DID it! I DID it!”
a recently retired schoolmaster who has
taken it up. His offer:
In your letter send your problem to
explain your difficulty, and you will receive
a prompt reply by post. When forwarding
your ' problem, enclose postal-note, or
cheque, for 7s. 6d. In cases where there
is more than one difficulty, ask for
particulars re cost.
Coaching is 10s. a lesson.
♦I 4
“Blocker”: That lady friend of “Deegs”
(B. 22/7/’59) should have learnt her
lesson by now; she’s been hiding her
pink-and-white form in cupboards and
behind doors for at least 10 years to
my knowledge. Surely it’s time she
bought a dressing-gown. The gasman
seems to be losing his punch,
too, if left speechless on hearing
that the shapely one is “expect-
ing the baker.” His stock retort used
to be, “Well, all I can say, lady, is he’s
a lucky bloke.” Either the gasman is
getting old or the lady’siigure ain’t what
it used to be.
♦j*
“H.A.L.”; Higher octane-ratings for
petrol remind me how, some 30 years
ago, one of the leading oil-companies
put-out what it claimed was a super-
grade petrol, to which it gave the name
of “Apotenic.” Their salesmen booked
large orders at first, then sales fell off.
Investigation showed that a salesman of
a rival firm had gone around saying to
dealers: “This ‘Apotenic’ business is no
end of a leg-pull. It’s just the same old
grade of petrol and that new name
they’ve given it comes from two Greek
words, apo, a bull and tenio, to fertilise
with manure. Now work it out for your-
self.” In his entire sales-territory, that
traveller struck only two dealers who
knew enough Greek to contradict him.
►> ♦>
“Jesmondene”: Anent “P.O.M.C.’s”
grim-visaged rock-’n’-rollers (B. 22/7/’59),
Terpsichore has proceeded along a
mathematical formula that added
propinquity equals subtracted vivacity.
The minuet, with finger-tip contact, was
an occasion for fluttering eyelashes and
eloquent compliments. With the lancers
we had romping squeals and no lack of
facial exuberance. The waltz, though in-
volving a sensuous male hand resting
on a few whaleboned female vertebrae,
was still, mark you, with “daylight be-
tween couples,” and gyrated with
sprightly glances and gay chatter. With
the closer contact of two-step and bunny-
hug came the moony dial and the con-
versation-dearth. Rock-’n’-roll brought
dead-pan and at this point of knotty-
browed gents somersaulting their
sheilas, it is perhaps apposite to submit
to the old-time doggerelists one they
missed: —“Wash the dishes, dry the
dishes, turn the dishes over.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Dear Bill”: That stocktaking-sale
notice (B. 22 /7/ ’59) recalled an ad. in
our local paper:
“Boys’ suits—£4 ss. Worth at least
£3 155.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: That par. about the bloke
in the night-shelter who rested one end
of his bed in his shoes (B. 8/7/’59),
reminds me of an old lady I once knew.
She slept peacefully with the four posts
of her bunk resting in thick glass bowls.
She reckoned rats or mice would never
climb anything protected by glass.
THE ARCH-ENEMY
“No matter how meticulously a woman may
care for all other aspects of beauty,*if her
eyebrows are undisciplined the whole effect
is marred. Yet they can so easily be trained.”
— Woman’s magazine.
Proud you may be, girls, to possess
The lustrous, silken-textured tress,
The smile that’s really captivating ;
A skin smoother than any cream ;
Twin pools of laughter which can beam
With an effect that’s devastating.
And yet (though you may think this
qUeer),
Their total worth may disappear,
You’ll forfeit all your beauty-pledges,
If you allow your lamps to be
Surmounted by what, seemingly,
Are two fierce-sprouting, hirsute
hedges.
This lucid truth you must embrace:
Delinquent factions in your face
You must inexorably stonker.
Depend on action, not on luck !
Although you’ll need a deal of pluck,
Rebellious hairs you’ll quickly
conquer
If, with a purpose grim and strong,
Ruthlessly wielding tweezer-prong,
Scorning the pain of extirpations,
You whale into ’em left and right.
For extra-tough ones, though, you might
Do best with felling-operations.
You train your eyebrows like a pup:
To lie down, or to stand straight up.
By exercising sternest measure,
They can be made to close-up tight,
Spread-out, bend-down, dress by the right
A ccording to their owner’s pleasure.
Don’t chance a bushfire, caused by sparks
In 'brows like those of Harpo Marx,
The sort that just invite cartooning.
Besides, by harvesting the crop,
Think of the weight you’ll quickly drop /
And it’s the season, girls, for pruning.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Punt High and Follow on!
THE GAMBLING HABIT
By RAYMOND McTIZZER
[“A U.S. Professor of Psychiatry says that
all steady gamblers are indulging in a special
form of self-punishment. He says that people
addicted to horseracing, poker and other
forms of gambling secretly hope they will
105e....he diagnoses the addicted gambler as
a masochist, craving self-punishment for real
or fancied pleasures.”]
The other night a friend of mine,
a fellow-masochist, said: “I’m
going to turn-up cigarettes, beer,
betting on racehorses, and women
—in that order.”
“Gosh!” a girl in the company said.
“What will you do then?”
“I’ll go very quietly when they throw
the net over me,” he said.
He is always saying things like that,
this fellow. Just as experts in their fields
are always lecturing on the effects of
cigarettes on the lung, beer on the liver,
ill-effects of bad women on young men
and punting on the pocket. They say
the sun, or too much of it, is not good for
the complexion, either.
Now they’ve come-up with a subtle
touch on the punting-habit. Self-punish-
ment, they call it. As if the punter didn’t
know. But he doesn’t like being told.
A punter will go around often enough
telling himself he has lost all judgment.
Couldn’t pick a winner in eight picks.
Ought to turn it up.
But don’t try to tell him. It’s like
telling the little boy what a great lot of
good the castor-oil will do him.
This professor fellow says it’s no good
trying to cure a gambler by telling him
how slim the chances of winning are.
At least he admits that. I say it’s no good
trying to cure the gambler. Period.
The learned professor says the punter
has a “subconscious need to lose.” This
seems to me a nice way to be told you’re
nuts.
Now, I don’t go around giving-off
some highfalutin excuse for my betting-
activities. Attending from two to five
race-meetings a week as a racing-writer
doesn’t help me break the habit. But I
could say I was a great horse-fancier.
I am. I could say that was the reason
I bet. I like to back my judgment.
A lot of people use this excuse. Race-
horse-breeders. Some bet in thousands.
Some bet in five-bobs each tote. Old
ladies sitting by telephones bet in tenners
without seeing a horse, unless it’s the
baker’s, from one year to the next.
Somehow it doesn’t figure.
I get a lot of opportunities to study
people punishing hell out of themselves
at the races. And in clubs playing poker-
machines —and at the dogs, in dice-games
and two-up, if it comes to that.
I don’t fancy these forms of gambling.
Poker-machines, in my book, are strictly
non-U. Dogs, dice and two-up hold no
appeal for me. But I’m a sucker for a
horserace —gallops or trots.
“This race is too hard,” I’ll say. “You’d
be mad to have a bet in it.” Two minutes
later I’ve got my last on something that
a week ago I said would never win a race.
That’s the way of the punt. Yet I
do not consider myself to be a “mad
punter.” My fellow-masochist, who
promised not to fight against the asylum
net, calls me an “old tin man,” indeed.
An “old tin man” is one who backs a
winner and puts a little or ail of the profit
away in cold-storage, in a tin for instance.
My friend definitely is not a “tin man.”
He is a “mad punter.” Not content to
back six winners, he will want to have it
all-up the seventh —and leave the lot in.
Yet he is a good money-getter. I have
seen him go to the races intent on
winning ten-pounds to take a girl out
or a hundred to settle a debt, and very
often get it.
He is good at getting it, but even more
adept at giving it back. Then, when he
is not giving it to bookmakers he is giving
it to publicans and night-club proprietors.
He is one of those funny fellows. Likes
having a good time. “Fair dinkum!” he
will say. “You wouldn’t be dead for a
million-quid.” And they’re good odds.
This same fellow often says to me he
is never so happy as when he is broke.
This leads me to believe the professor
has something.
He is a laughing-broke the way there
are laughing-drunks. But he is very nasty
sometimes to jockeys he considers have
ridden bad races on horses he has backed.
It is good that he soon gets over his
bitterness.
The professor compares alcoholics and
gamblers. He even suggests a Gamblers’
Anonymous. Can you imagine?
“Here, give us two-bob for the Mel-
bourne Cup sweep, Charlie.”
“No, mate, I’m sorry . . . G.A. . . .
Can’t imbibe. Might break out and try
to pick the programme on Saturday.”
The professor excludes once-a-year
punters from the list of gambling maso-
chists. They are not “craving the need
to lose,” he says.
It’s a wonder, with all-totalisator
betting in America, that they haven’t
devised a method of telling the addicted
punter when he’s punished himself
enough. The totalisator-machine could
announce, weighing-machine # fashion:
“Sorry, Buster, you’ll have to call it a
day. You’re down to the milk-money
now, and the company can’t take that
from you.”
What gets me is the hell of a lot of
trouble people go to punishing them-
selves on racecourses. They study form-
guides (some of them for hours on end —
days before a meeting), chase around
looking for tips, sorting out “goers,”
“dead-uns,” “birds” and horses “just
having a run.”
It must be one of the most detailed
forms of torture. I had often wondered
{Continued on page 34)
“Cancel my bet—he can’t win!”


POLITICAL POINTS
Cahill has expressed confidence that
a bill to abolish the N.S.W. Legislative
Council will be passed through Parlia-
ment before the Christmas recess. If he
wants to make sure of that he’d better
insert a clause guaranteeing displaced
M.L.C.s continuity of their £5OO p.a.
expense-allowance, free transport and
life membership of the Union Club.
- • •
Next time Trade Minister McEwen
goes to Grafton (N.S.W.) he can be
assured of a warm reception ; the liberal-
isation of import-quotas for Scotch
whisky has strengthened the hand of the
independent Grafton brewery. Last
session Earle Page alleged in Parliament
that hotels in Grafton and other parts
of New England had told the local
brewery that they couldn’t take supplies
of Grafton beer because a Sydney
brewery had threatened to chop-off their
limited supplies of Scotch if they
continued to sell the Grafton brew.
McEwen said he’d look into it.
When the import-easings were
announced Scotch was transferred from
the very restricted class of imports and
placed on an “imports-replacement”
basis. This means that Scotch will no
longer be an “under-the-counter” com-
modity. Importers will be free to import
as much as they need to replace stocks,
as they are sold.
• •
Ray Maher, new Speaker of the N.S.W.
Assembly, has been having a clean-up
campaign and among other things has
taken down the photographs of former
Speakers from the walls of his sanctum
and replaced them with landscape-paint-
ings. What the N.S.W. Parliament really
wants is not new pictures, but new
members.
• •
Modern in most things, America
seems unable to rise above 18th-century
memories and prejudices when a
“colonial” matter is under discussion.
When the U.N. Trusteeship Council
dealt with a motion (proposed by Haiti)
calling upon Australia to adopt without
delay plans necessary for the attainment
of self-government in New Guinea, the
U.S. representative lined-up with Burma,
China, Haiti, India, Paraguay, the United
Arab Republic and Russia to carry the
motion by eight votes to six. Opposed
were Australia, Britain, Belgium, France,
Italy and New Zealand.
This country has repeatedly stated its
intention of preparing its New Guinea
territory for eventual self-government,
but has stressed the impossibility of
fixing a definite target-date. It is hard
to believe that America cannot see the
soundness of this stand, but durn it all,
Uncle Sam mustn’t be seen consorting
with colonial powers!
• •
While the Trusteeship Council was
instructing Australia on the subject of
New Guinea, Indonesian Foreign
Minister Subandrio was criticising Prime
Minister Menzies on the same subject,
and uttering threats about population-
pressures in Asia. Menzies had expressed
a hope that ultimately there would be
self-government for the entire island of
New Guinea. This is surely a hope
which the Trusteeship Council (includ-
ing America) would approve, but it
doesn’t please Subandrio. Nevertheless,
it should continue to be Australia’s aim.
Indonesia would do better to stop its
threats and boycotts over West New
Guinea and concentrate on developing
its own territory in such a way that a
future independent New Guinea might
be pleased to join it of its own free
will.
The Communist leaders conducted
Vice-President Nixon to the place where
the Nazis buried thousands of Jews,
and professed to be deeply shocked at
the deed. Nobody thought of conduct-
ing him to the Katyn Forest where the
Russians did the same to the betrayed
Poles. And so far he has had no invita-
tion to visit Budapest.
• •
There are suggestions that the death
of Albert Namatjira from a heart-attack
was caused in some way by his prison-
sentence. What is more likely is that
both his early death—he was 57—and
his jailing are attributable to the same
basic cause —his inability to cope with
the white-man drinking privilege acquired
along with his citizenship. Before
Namatjira was feted by city-dwellers he
was a teetotaller.
• •
There seems no doubt that the Chinese
are behind the “spontaneous outbreaks”
against Laos —outbreaks of revolu-
tionary violence. Coming at the moment
when Khrushchev is most vocal about
the need for world peace and the crush-
ing of aggression, it throws a bright light
on the protestations of love of peace
and desire to avoid interfering with the
freedom of Powers outside the Iron
Curtain which are oozing out of
Moscow.
“Who are you dedicating it to, Harold—Artie or Granny ‘Herald’?"


America is going to roll-out the red
carpet for Khrushchev. That should
make him feel at home.
• •
If Soekarno goes on as at present,
Federal Parliament will undoubtedly get
a petition shortly from the civil service
and Ministerial hierarchy to bring him
over here to reform our set-up. Fol-
lowing the creation of a Cabinet of 43
(protected by press bans from criticism),
he has now formed a 48-man Provisional
Supreme Advisory Council and a 79-man
Planning Board. He is obviously a man
after the civil service’s own heart.
• •
J. P. Abbott, former M.H.R. for New
England and a past-president of the
Graziers’ Federal Council, has suggested
that the “Hovercraft” may be the answer
to the problem of transporting cattle in
the Northern Territory. He visualises
a large version of the Hovercraft,
capable of lifting 250 head of cattle and
transporting them on its cushion of air
from cattle-station to railhead. An alter-
native proposal which Graziers’ Council
secretary Chislett says is being investi-
gated is a trackless train, each wheel of
which is equipped with its own electric-
motor ; it is said to be capable of cross-
ing almost any type of country without
roads or rails.
A better plan still might be to equip
each beast with its own electric motor
and/or cushion of air. They could then
be moved quickly to market, slightly-
off-the-hoof, under their own power, and
without wear-and-tear.
• •
Melbourne City Council takes the
sauce for its dislike of home-grown
celery. Recently, men for the best-paid
jobs of Town Clerk, personnel-officer,
property - officer and senior - traffic-
inspector have been appointed from
outside the council-staff, and now its
finance - committee, dissatisfied with
applications within its service for the
£3415-a-year post as City Treasurer, is
calling for them outside.
• •
Although Westralia is anxious to see
its nor’-west developed it would not agree
to hand it over to the Commonwealth
for that purpose, Charles Court, Minister
for the North-west, told members of a
Federal Government food and agricul-
tural committee visiting the Kimberleys.
Court advocates instead a development
authority which would be a partnership
between the Commonwealth and Westra-
lian Governments.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Quarantine precautions
have failed to keep out recent outbreaks
of ’flu, and there may be some warrant
for the theory that migratory birds, whose
flights between hemispheres are a subject
of high scientific interest and study, often
carry viruses. It was suggested at a
recent seminar in Tokyo of the World
Health Organisation and the Food and
Agriculture Organisation that some of
the viruses which every year strike
thousands of people and animals in many
parts of the world, causing encephalitis
and other diseases, might be carried from
continent to continent by migratory
birds. Next year scientists will begin
studying bird-migration routes and taking
blood-samples of birds and infected
human beings to test the theory.
• •
Two towns in the northern part of
South Australia will be concertina’d into
one for the purposes of the film-version
of Jon Cleary’s The Sundowners.
Playford told S.A. Opposition - leader
O’Halloran that most of the outdoor
scenes for the picture would be filmed
in South Australia. The town “Cawn-
dilla” will be composed of two main
streets of Quorn and a street of Hawker.
Corunna Station, near Iron Knob, and
Carriewerloo Station, near Port Augusta,
will also figure in the film and one of
South Australia’s salt lakes, Lake Gilles,
is the venue chosen for the drought
scenes.
• •
The Rev. F. A. Marsh, one of the
Australian church team who were given
the run-around by the Communists in
Russia and Red China, preached in
Melbourne Baptist Church on the high
morality in those countries and “the
obvious respect for other people through
the total absence of signs of vandalism.”
Obviously the tour did not cover Tibet
or Hungary.
• •
Dr. Neil Duncan, of Birmingham,
England, is looking for sponsors for a
scheme to establish in Africa a Flying
Doctor service on the lines of the Aus-
tralian organisation. He has some quali-
fications for the job. At one time he
was a medical-officer in Tanganyika and
later was stationed at Cloncurry with the
Queensland section of the Flying Doctor
Service.
• •
In the metropolitan area outside the
city of Melbourne, shop-sales increased
by just on 55 per cent, between 1952 and
1957, and the number of shops on the
fringe rose by nearly 10 per cent. In
the city itself the increases were only
20.9 and 2.8 per cent, respectively. Mel-
bourne Chamber of Manufactures’ ex-
planation is that factory - employees
follow the job to the outer areas.
• •
Curiosity as to the identity of Queens-
land Art Gallery’s generous benefactor
will, for the present, have to remain
unsatisfied. Opposition - leader Duggan
asked Education Minister Pizzey in the
Queensland Assembly whether any public
funds had been involved in the purchase
of six paintings sold in London by
grazier H. de V. Rubin for £5tg.94,800 ;
also whether the donor’s name had been
withheld at his own wish or that of the
Government. The Minister replied that
no public funds had been involved and
that the name had been withheld at the
request of the donor.
South Africa has maintained that its
mandate in the former German colony
of South-west Africa has lapsed, and that
it is under no obligation to report to
U.N. on the territory. A special com-
mittee of U.N. is preparing a report for
the General Assembly, describing condi-
tions in the territory and paying special
attention to a claim by a South-west
African student at Cape Town University
that his passport to Norway for a scholar-
ship had been withdrawn because his
father and grandfather had made peti-
tions in a land-alienation case.
• •
The launching at Whyalla of the
motor-vessel Mount Keira, a 14,000-ton
ore-carrier, brought the aggregate dead-
weight tonnage of shipping built by
B.H.P. at Whyalla since the first launch-
ing in 1941 to 250,000 tons. Ships built
range from naval patrol-vessels of 682
tons to Australia’s biggest, the 19,000-
ton Iron Flinders, now ready for
commissioning. The Mount Keira is
the largest motor - vessel so far built
in Australia ; it was built to the order
of the Australian Shipbuilding Board
for the Australian Coastal Shipping
Commission.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Lack of transport in the
Queensland channel - country during
droughts causes heavy stock-losses, and
the State Government has therefore
started urgent investigations of a possible
road-network to lift cattle, when neces-
sary, to the railheads at Dajarra, Winton
and Quilpie. Yards, watering - facilities
and loading-ramps will also be investi-
gated—and when costs are known Can-
berra will be asked to subsidise the pro-
ject on a £-for-£ basis.
• •
“Wusslean”: Defending a passenger
who was charged with having used in-
sulting language on a Melbourne tram,
a barrister contended that the term “
robbers” when applied to the Tramways
Board was not insulting. “People use the
phrase every day on trams,” he added.
The presiding honorary magistrate—
possibly a tramways patron himself —
ruled that in some circumstances it
would not be insulting to call the Tram-
ways Board “ robbers,” but decided
that the manner in which the phrase had
been used in addressing a conductress
was definitely insulting, and fined the
offender two quid, with costs. Still, it’s
comforting news for tram-travellers that
they can still voice their opinions on
the high cost of tram-travel —provided
they say it discreetly.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Australia is losing valu-
able chances of good publicity by its
extraordinary insistence on censoring all
films leaving the country. Several
organisations, including the 8.8. C., won’t
submit to this ridiculous procedure—
and Australia suffers as a result. Who
thought-up this one, and why?


Personal
ITEMS
An American visitor to Sydney,
taking-in the sights of George Street,
paused at 252 when he saw THE
BULLETIN on the window and
walked inside “to see if he felt
at home.” He did. A fortnight
ago Don Rose, columnist and
editorial writer of the “Philadelphia
Bulletin,” was discussing with his wife
the possibility of visiting their son, also
a Don, who is minister of the Sweden-
borgian Church at Hurstville, Sydney.
After adding-up the chips they regretfully
decided it couldn’t be done this year.
Next morning Rose had a phone-call
from Qantas inviting him to join a party
of journalists on the first U.S.-Australian
flight of the Boeing 707. A couple of
days later Don Rose, jnr., was greeting
Don Rose, snr., and Mrs. Rose (a cash
customer of Qantas) in Sydney.
Journalist Rose isn’t American-born ;
his home-town is Street, near Glaston-
bury, in Somerset. He went to America in
1908 and was a teacher before entering
journalism. He remembers the time
when “Philly” had 10 daily newspapers ;
now it has two. Rose admits to having
had several papers shot under him, but
hasn’t any fears for his present home,
the sheet with the famous slogan, “In
Philadelphia nearly everybody reads ‘The
Bulletin’.” (Apparently something like a
million of ’em do.)
As Rose went out into George Street
again he said to a Bulletin man with
whom he’d been chatting, “Thanks,
you’ve given me some good material for
my column.” It wasn’t till later that the
Bully bloke recollected the title of Don
Rose’s column —“Stuff and Nonsense.”
• •
“C.S.”: I used to sit on a seat in the
sun at the Melbourne races with Arthur
Rowe, who would study the changing
prices on the bookmakers’ boards and
then go off and put a pound or two on
the tote, always including in his bets
horses ridden by Jack Purtell, who rides
intelligently, and triers exclusively. He
Was always so pleased to win a few
pounds, I wondered at times whether
he could really afford to bet, although,
of course, the millionaires are always
in the ten-bob or pound tote-queues.
I hadn't seen him for some weeks,
and last week I read of his death. He
had been a quarryman in a northern
Melbourne district from 1921 to 1948,
when he sold-out and retired. He had
no family. I see my old punting friend
never wasted much money because he
was saving up to leave it to the Free-
masons’ Hospital and the Essendon and
District proposed hospital—after death-
duties, £300,000 between them.
Herewith Brigadier George Stanley
Hurst, late of Hodson’s Horse and now
of Larkhill Stud, Goulburn (N.S.W.).
He’s well known for his herd of Red
Polls, which carry-off prizes each year
at Sydney’s Royal Easter Show, and
when he happened to be down lately—he’d
come to join other former officers of the Indian
Army in giving a dinner to Sir William Slim —
he called at The Bulletin, giving an oppor-
tunity of discussing this dual-purpose breed of
his, as well as the odd “skirmish in a dark
defile.” '
Born in England, Hurst went to Quetta Cadet
College in 1915, was gazetted to Hodson’s
Horse and served in France and Palestine.
His regiment captured Nazareth and, in the
break-through, advanced to Aleppo. After
the war, they remained for a time around
Aleppo and Armenia, policing that part of
the world while Kemal Pasha was bringing
Turkey back to stable government, then had
a year camped in the sands outside Alexandria.
Back in India in 1920, Hurst was on the north-
west frontier at Kohat, where he was detailed
to form a Gurkha Divisional Signals unit.
This meant his doing a course in England and,
kept on there for four years as an instructor,
he found he was getting out of touch with his
horsemen, so transferred to the Royal Corps
of Signals. Returning later on to India, he
was there, among other things, Master first
of the Peshawar Vale Hunt and then of the
Nerbudda Vale at Jubbulpore. Having married
an Australian he decided to leave the Army,
and came to settle on his present property,
which he had bought in 1930.
Rejoining on the outbreak of War 11, he
made his way back to England and encountered,
en route, a naval officer who was travelling
back from Colombo. This nautic had received
a telegram ordering him to rejoin and “proceed
with all dispatch to Colombo.” He’d done just
that, and then discovered that the Colombo
the Admiralty really meant was a warship at
Scapa Flow! Hurst, for his part, continued
his service in the Sudan, Abyssinia, the Middle
East, Assam and Burma; then, at the end of
the war, came back to Australia.
An authority on Red Polls, he makes light
of his successes by saying there’s not much
competition in this breed in Australia at the
present time. But he speaks highly of the
performance of these cattle, and says how
suitable he finds them to Australian conditions,
so it may not be long before he’s facing more
numerous competition.
• •
“5.8.”: Stephen Vowless, one of the
oldest men in Hawkes Bay, missed his
tot of rum by one month.
It couldn’t have worried him much on
his passing, for he confessed that during
his life he drank “an awful lot of the
stuff.” Altogether he confounded the
killjoys, for he was a persistent pipe-
smoker since the age of 14, and was on
deck in coastal ships in N.Z. until 87.
Then he became a nurseryman and
didn’t retire until just before his 97th
birthday.
• •
New Coadjutor Bishop of Adelaide
and Bishop of Mt. Gambier is the Rev.
Charles Vockler, lecturer in doctrine at
St. John’s Theological College, Morpeth
(N.S.W.), and assistant-priest at Singleton.
• •
One of Queensland’s newly appointed
District Court Judges, Dormer George
Andrews is certainly authentic North.
Born in Brisbane in 1919, he had
his education at St. Joseph’s Col-
lege, Nudgee, before graduating
from Queensland University in arts
and law. With the R.A.A.F. in
War 11, he flew Spitfires and Hurricanes
in England and the Middle East, but
came to grief in aerial combat at El
Alamein, losing an arm and being badly
burnt and otherwise so knocked about
that, taken to Italy as a p.-0.-w., he
remained in hospital there until released
in the exchange of prisoners at Smyrna
in 1943. Among other interests, he’s a
Johnsonian, a member of Tatt.’s and
the Q.T.C., and a keen follower of Rugby
League. Interested also in history, law
and the prevention of child-crime, he
takes time-off to go deep-sea fishing or
to work in the garden. And—not the
only judge known to do so —he reads
detective-stories, and he also collects
gramophone-records—preferring orches-
tral disks to modern.
• •
Dr. A. L. Goodhart, sighted in Perth
during the legal convention, is an Ameri-
can and a Master of University College,
Oxford. An English resident since 1920,
he is an honorary British knight. His
son Philip has the Beckenham seat for
the Conservatives, making Goodhart the
only American with a son in the British
House of Commons.
• •
“An Chuidh”: When the Mary-
borough (Vic.) Presbyterian Church
lately celebrated its centenary one
of the highlights was the return of
a former minister, the Rev. A. D.
Brodie, a Scot who had preached to
the faithful for 17 years. He was most
fittingly piped into the kirk by two pipers.
This ancient honor is equivalent to the
honor given to a chieftain. A laird or
landowner may be preceded by one piper,
a chieftain by two pipers and a chief by
three.


Pat Lawlor: “Aren’t we all?” said Sir
George Mallaby in effect at a farewell
function in Auckland (he is retiring from
his U.K. High Commissionership). He
was contrasting English and N.Z. tastes
in speech and dress. There were
differences, said the diplomat without
disparagement. He does not object to
the prevailing Enzed “neow”; in fact,
he found his own speech in contrast
“pedantic—a trifle arrogant.” Why
worry about such trifles when the
British hallmark of justice and fair-play
remained? Sir George did not refer to
the N.Z.R.U.’s decision to rule - out
Maoris from the All Black team to tour
South Africa.
• •
The aboriginal who went by the name
of “Line-Party Bob,” and who worked
as horse-tailer and camp-boy on the
Overland Telegraph when it was being
put through from Adelaide to Darwin
more than 80 years ago, lately passed-on
at Santa Teresa Mission (N.T.), aged
more than 104. He was the last survivor
of all who worked on the line.
• •
The catching geniality of Jan Peerce,
caught here by Lahm at the reception
given by J. and N. Tait (under whose
house-flag the famous American tenor
is now making his first tour of Australia)
and R.C.A. (which records him), was
carried onto Sydney Town Hall plat-
form the following night, and the singer’s
free-and-breezy manner with his audience
between songs, contrasting with the easy
dignity of his approach to serious music,
was wholly in accord with his reputation
for being no stuffed-shirt. He brings a
nice mastery of words, also, to explana-
tion of songs he thinks may need it; and
he likes to get a bit of humor off his
chest —a chest, by the way, which any
physical-culture man would view with
respect, and which partly explains the
great power he can project from his
lower register.
Short and stocky, Peerce was born in
New York, started in music with the
fiddle, but diced it when he found he
had a voice, and had his first big break
with an appearance at Radio City Music
Hall, where he was an immediate success.
Then impressario Sol Hurok launched
him into opera, and from then on it’s
been success all the way, with Toscanini
setting the seal of his approval on him.
One of the world’s most popular artists,
the tenor is booked-out for years ahead
for both recital and operatic work, and
Australia is the last of the five con-
tinents he has to conquer.
• •
Resigning from the State secretary-
ship of the R.S.L. in Westralia, to which
he was appointed 12 months ago, 45-
year-old Eric Godwin was the first
Enzedder, first naval man and first
university-graduate to be appointed to
that post. Holding a B.Sc. and B.E.
(Mining and Metallurgy) from the Uni-
versity of New Zealand, he joined the
R.N.Z. Volunteer Reserve in 1940, was
commissioned two years later and
appointed intelligence - officer of the
R.N.Z. Navy. Had seagoing service in
the cruiser Achilles, and was lieutenant-
commander before demob.
• •
In Australia to make a preliminary
survey of the part played by brands in
purchasing, Lincoln Armstrong, project-
director for a New York international
research-organisation, will try to find
out whether people buy goods because
they like the shop or the salesman, or
if they’re influenced by the brand of the
goods. Armstrong says middle - aged
middle-class men are the best targets for
interviewers.
• •
Despite an assurance from Dr. J. R.
Darling, one of its (outspoken) members,
who is also a television-programme
adviser on the Australian Broadcasting
Control Board, that no Government
would look at its proposition, Melbourne
University Council has appointed a com-
mittee to investigate the possibility of
getting the remaining TV-channel in
Melbourne. The council proposes to
put on an educational programme, five
hours a week. It does seem a bit
academic.
• •
“Xavier”: Formerly at St. Vincent’s
Hospital, Sydney, and later a student
at Sydney University, Dr. Philomena
McGrath has been admitted as a Fellow
of the Royal Australian College of
Surgeons—the youngest woman medico
to join the fellowship.
• •
“M’Lou”: A Nuffield grant has now
enabled Dr. V. D. Hopper, Reader in
Physics at Melbourne University (where
for the past nine years he has directed
research into cosmic-ray bombardment
of the earth’s surface), to further his
studies overseas. In July he left for South
Africa, there to study the cosmic-ray
pattern and the high-altitude wind-system,
and see how these compare with those
of Australia. The equipment, including
radio-signal devices and controls, which
Dr. Hopper has been using and will take
abroad has all been made for him in
his home-town, Horsham (Vic.).
New president of the Royal Agricul-
tural and Horticultural Society of South
Australia, Robert Gosse (sketched here-
with) is a director and general-manager
of the Beltana Pastoral Co., Ltd., one
of the largest pastoral holdings in the
State. He’s a director of many other
such companies, too, and chairman of
Stockowners Shearing, Ltd.
A son of Sir James Gosse and a great-
grandson of Robert Barr Smith (one of
the founders of the R.A. and H.S. and
of Elder Smith and Co., Ltd.), he’s a
member of council of his old school,
St. Peter’s College, and of the Appeals
Committee of the Red Cross. Earlier
he rowed for South Australia, but now
he’s given that away and taken to golf.
In War II he was with the 2/7th Field
Regiment in the Western Desert and New
Guinea.
• «
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 49, E. Justin McCarthy,
managing-director of World Brands Pty., and
president, Parents’ and Friends’ Association,
of Abbotsleigh C. of E. School for Girls,
Wahroonga. He was one of the executives of
Unilever chosen to attend the 30th Advanced
Management Programme of the Harvard
University Graduate School of Business
Adminstration in 1956. An old Newingtonian,
and B. Ec. (Sydney).
In Melbourne, Jim Harris, remaining partner
of Harris and Wren, duo song-and-dance
artists at the Tivoli early in the century. In
later years he was receptionist at the Victorian
Club and a member of the Melbourne Bowling
Club.
In Melbourne, at 73, R. W. McCullough,
senior master of Caulfield Grammar School
for 53 years.
In London, at 81, Sir Thomas Coomb'e,
Perth picture-theatre pioneer and philanthropist,
and active in the W.A. Boy Scout movement.
In Melbourne, Andrew J. Letten, for more
than 30 years member of the Master Plumbers’
Association and foundation-member of the
Victorian Overseas Foundation.


ABORIGINALITIES
Sidelight on male housekeeping. Asked
husband, who camps on the job
during the week and comes home only at
weekends, how many times a week he
strips and remakes his bed. Said he did
so every Monday and Wednesday, and
—forestalling any sarcastic remark—went
on to say that when they shifted camp
recently his mate found eight mud-wasp
nests built on the side of his blankets
nearest the wall, and clinging to the
spring-mattress of his bed were nearly
a dozen bats! —“Cadam.”
# * * *
“Two Jays”: I received my first im-
pressions of the awful majesty of the law
as a kid on our Victorian farm. Being
short-handed, Dad, who was the local
J.P., was helping with the travelling chaff-
cutter, when the town constable, his son
and a stranger, cast-up. Dad handed
over to one of the men, and took his
place as one of a group standing on
the road, all with hats removed. When
cop and co. had departed, Dad explained
that he had just conducted a “Court of
Petty Sessions.” The “prisoner” had
been causing a disturbance at the hotel.
Everything was ironed-out satisfactorily,
and Dad returned to the chaffcutter,
after having passed the dread sentence:
“Five-bob or the ‘rising’.”
* * * *
“Larnaca”: Our cocker-spaniel, whilst
getting most use out of it for sniffing
purposes when kitchen-activity pre-warns
arrival of afternoon-tea, relies on his
nose almost wholly when he is searching
for anything. It is fortunate that time
is no object to him, for I have stood
stock-still and watched him come tracing
me in paddock or garden, sometimes
passing within a few inches of my feet,
yet never looking up, intent on follow-
ing my tracks, hither and yon, until he
eventually catches-up with me, a
delighted expression of “Ah, here-you-
are-at-last! ” all over his affectionate face
“Have you locked the front-door , Norman ?”
as he looks up from having stubbed his
nose against my boot. It is fortunate
that our rabbit-population is low, for
he employs the same tactics with them ;
I watched a cheerful mob of sheepdogs
put-up a bunny and set-out in hot pur-
suit, whilst Cocker, wild with the joys
of the chase, also lit-out in full cry. The
only thing wrong was that the sheepdogs
were chasing bunny in one direction while
their long-eared cobber, conk to the
ground, was going in reverse, excitedly
finding out from whence Brer had sprung,
in the jungle of plains-grass.
* * * *
“Taberna”: The taipan probably
derives its monicker from the abo. tribe
of that name. The reptile would prob-
ably be a totem symbol.
* * * *
“Kairi”: That Hebe in Choomland
who knocked-back the deener proffered
by a thirsty First Ack-I-Effer while cut-
tingly referring to our national emblem
as the “bird-’n’-rat” (B. 15/7/’59) merely
regarded the coin as not being legal-
tender, which at the time was so. But she
was in good company. When the present
“ram’s-head” shilling-piece was first cir-
culated about 1938 I had several knocked-
back by storekeepers in small N.Q.
towns, who had not seen them before.
They reckoned they were foreign coins,
and no argument could convince them
otherwise.
* * * *
“Boro-Belle”: When the first mincing-
machine (worked by horsepower) was
installed in 1881 at Mt. Spencer station,
near Nebo, Mackay (Q.), by the then
owner, Lord Winchelsea, his Ex. was
amazed to find that all his abo. station-
hands refused their allotment in the bi-
weekly hand-out of meat: “No wantum
meat white man been chewum first time.”
It took some months to remove the
embargo, and then only after the abos.
had been brought in to see the mince
made.
* * * *
“Duke’s Daughter”: In my first
attempt at earning a crust I started
(at 16) as help at a station home-
stead. I did everything, except cooking,
for a family of six. Washing was done
in boiler and tubs, ironing with “Granny
Pott’s” flat-irons. The house was a
bungalow with a veranda right round,
and my Saturday-afternoon job was to
scour the floor of the veranda with a
piece of sandstone. It was usually after
sundown that it was finished. Six-o’clock
till 10 was the average day. Waiting on
NIGHT JOURNEY
A snail must put into the perilous air
his vulnerable head to make his way.
I am all-over housed, and need not care
what weather beats or beams the night,
away.
Far down the road another pilgrim is.
His little hurrying dawn comes up the
rise —
Does he, too, fancy that the earth is his
and note my passing light with faint
surprise?
No one should be asleep
in this once-only night
When moony ripples sweep
the summer grass like white
water-borne hair and steep,
briefly, the leaves with light—
no one should be asleep
in this once-only night.
There, cumulus-cloudy sheep
are shadowed into sight,
half-folded by the deep
roll of the valleyside . . .
No one should be asleep
in this once-only night.
O strange untenanted hour!
My shell feels thin.
My bony hands are reaching for the grave
a little before their time. We are drawn in
{by a dead-reckoning that mortals have)
to what new galaxy, so strong and far,
who move at night across this else-where
star?
TAS.
HELEN CHAPMAN.




table, washing-up, making beds, taking
care of the children, scrubbing floors,
washing and ironing gave me no time
to rest. If I finished a job and tried to
snatch a few minutes’ relaxation some-
thing would be found for me to do. For
all this I received 7s. 6d. a week. I had
to address the husband as “Sir,” the wife
as “Madam,” and the children as
“Master” and “Miss.” As the eldest was
10, the youngest four, I found this hard.
My resignation was dignified. Saturday
night, and Madam was entertaining a
few of the cockies and their wives.
Waiting on table, I tripped on a rug and
dropped a tray of food. Madam abused
me roundly, but I didn’t bother to
answer ; I took-off my cap and apron,
dropped them on the floor and walked
out. This was in the “Hungry ’Thirties.”
“Tabba”: Out at Mirani (Q.), where
the Pioneer River washes bridges away
as fast as they are put up (six or seven
since April, 1956), they’ve changed the
old saying about water passing under
bridges to “A lot of bridges will pass
under the water before that! ”
* * * *
“Glen Park”: A christening had been
arranged, the candidate had been pre-
pared, but there was one slight hitch —
no water. The church, situated in what
is, normally, one of South Australia’s
wettest spots, had never been in such
a predicament. When the parson arrived
he found the well which supplied the
church dry. Quick thinking prompted
him to ring the fire-brigade, which quickly
came to the rescue.
* * * #
“Kirribilli”: Benier’s joke-block about
the shivering swan floating on a hot-
water bottle (B. l/7/’59) recalled a trip
to Lake Rotomohana (N.Z.) into which
Waimungu Creek discharges its uncom-
fortably warm waters. Here our guide
pointed out several pairs of swans, and
informed us, quite seriously, that they
always nest near the mouth of the creek,
as the warm current shortened the in-
cubation-period by two or three days.
A board passenger - liners it’s custom-
ary to display a chart showing the
ship’s course inked-in from port to port,
The ship’s position is marked on this line
from day to day with a small flag, while
a card giving actual latitudes and longi-
tudes is pinned on the chart. Coming
through the Indian Ocean, I noticed that
the card showed our position as approxi-
mately 150 miles from the line at the
point where the flag was pinned. I asked
the duty-officer why the ship was so far
from the line shown on the chart. He
explained that deviations were made to
avoid storms and that on this trip we'd
been doing quite a bit of dodging. “But
why not put the pin where the ship really
is?” I asked. “No fear,” he replied. “If
the flag on the chart strays off the line
we’re pestered on the bridge by old ladies
who want to know whether the captain
realises the ship is off-course!” —“Tabba.”
* * * *
“Hutton”: The old man plodded his
camels along the sand at a South Aus-
tralian beach providing rides for the
children. The camels were poor, thread-
bare specimens, but the old Inlander
regarded them with pride and affection.
“Which one is your favorite?” I asked.
“This one,” he said, patting a scrawny
neck. “Her name's Nita, but she answers
to Myrtle.”
* * • * *
“N.S.”: The pub with no beer! After
three days of steady rain there was minor
flooding in our main street. The hotel
suffered and the bar was closed. Written
in chalk on the door was the explanation:
“Closed, cellar full of water.”
* * * *
“Boro-Belle”: The dilly-dallying by the
World Bank on the Mt. Isa Railway loan
recalls when 30 years ago Cattle Creek
sugarmill, Finch Hatton, wanted to in-
crease its already lusty overdraft by
another £lO,OOO, half for an urgently-
needed boiler and the rest to put the
factory in order for the crushing. A
cautious banker had referred it to head-
office, Sydney, through whose silence
precious time was running out. It was
then that the business-folk of the town-
ship weighed-in--the butcher, publican,
storekeeper, sawmiller and farmer —each
with £lOOO cash and the Sydney-made
boiler arrived nine days later. The banker
gave the other half, and the mill-whistle
sounded the start on time. Today it is
a flourishing concern, but the cheques
are on another bank.
* * * *
“M urray Swagman”: The dis-
appearance of smoke is not the only result
of the displacement of steam locos (B.
8/7/’59). In a Victorian country town
the Railway Department gave its water-
tanks away—they weren't worth moving.
Another fast-disappearing institution is
the railway refreshment-room. The diesel
doesn’t stop for water and ash-pit clean-
ing ; these stops used to coincide with
refreshment-stops. Now the refreshment-
rooms are being replaced by travelling
buffet-cars on the trains.
* * * *
“Dicky”: Queer remedies (B.
24/6/ ’59)? My grandparents had an old
medical book which contained a fascinat-
ing collection of cures for all sorts of
things. The remedy for snakebite was
to hie to the nearest running stream and
“immerse thyself.” The advice wasn’t
much use to Granddad —the old Murrum-
bidgee flowed nearly a hundred miles
away. Probably the most sensible and
certainly the most succinct advice was
for the lovelorn. Under the heading of
“Cure for Unrequited Love,” it told the
sufferer to “Transfer the affections.”
* * * *
“Jobber”: Unsigned cheques (B.
8/7/’59)? Among Bung’s deposit in a
country bank I noticed a cheque signed
Peter Peter. I knew the bloke who had
cashed the cheque at the pub, so soon
after three-o’clock I jumped on the pony
and found Peter Peter. He grinned, said
something about a celebration the night
before, and added his surname.
* * * *
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Here in Fiji we buy
paperbacks (B. 1 /7/’59) not only for
cheapness, but to save on bulk when
we move. So far, the borers haven t
worried us ; it’s the mould that is our
problem. Bound volumes get whitish
patches on them, but some of my paper-
backs sport luxuriant green growths.
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: An Australian record has
been claimed with the sale of a five-
year-old Hereford bullock at Wagga
(N.S.W.) for £llB Is., and the local
paper that reported it gave the beast s
estimated weight at “between 12501 b. and
30001 b.,” which would make the price
high for the bottom estimate, but a
bargain for the top one. Our local
butcher would have laughed at that
estimate. He can invariably get within
51b. of the scales. He dresses all his
own bullocks, and his estimate is always
called-for to settle disputes at the sale-
yards, on the basis of an allowable 51b.
margin either way.


"They Watched and Warned..."
The Coast-watchers
By WALTER BROOKSBANK
[Formerly Civil Assistant to the Director o£ Naval Intelligence.]
On August 15 there is to take place
at Madang, New Guinea, the
official opening of a memorial
to the 38 coast-watchers who lost
their lives in World War II while engaged
in transmitting operational intelligence,
by means of teleradio, from jungle hide-
outs.
The memorial takes the form of a
lighthouse, a concrete structure 80ft.
high and of an appropriately com-
memorative design. Erected from funds
provided by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and the Coast Watchers Memorial
Committee, it will be known as “The
Coast Watchers Light.” At its base
there is a cruciform-pathway approach
and three bronze memorial plaques. The
inscription on one of these plaques is in
pidgin English, as a tribute to the loyalty
of the natives who acted as scouts and
carriers for the coast-watchers.
The coast-watchers were a small but
colorful and extremely courageous group.
Most of them were plantation - owners,
plantation-managers and patrol-officers
of the New Guinea and Solomon Islands
Administrations. Early in the war they
were given “protective” rank in the
R.A.N.V.R.; but later, when the Allied
Intelligence Bureau was formed, the
panel of coast-watchers was extended to
include both Army and R.A.A.F. per-
sonnel who knew the islands in the war-
zone.
Not only did the coast-watchers pro-
vide valuable target information leading
to the destruction of many Japanese war-
ships and aircraft, but on countless occa-
sions they gave timely warning of
impending enemy air-attacks. Theirs
was a lonely, hazardous job ; and often,
with Jap patrols hot on their trail, they
were pushed from pillar to post. Time
and again it was only their superior
knowledge of jungle-lore which enabled
them to survive.
A typical war-time coast-watching
post:
On an enemy-occupied island, in a
small clearing close to the sea, within
sound of the booming of surf against an
outlying reef. In the foreground, squat-
ting on their haunches, a group of
natives, some wearing khaki shorts,
others merely their lap-laps. Most of
the natives are cleaning their rifles, and,
surprisingly, several of them are equipped
with automatic weapons. In the back-
ground are some ration-cases and
ammunition-boxes. An aerial hangs
suspended between two trees.
There is a solitary white man whose
khaki shirt bears the badges of a
lieutenant (special branch!, R.A.N.V.R.
Sprawled out on the ground, he is
reading a paperbacked whodunit.
A cry comes from a nearby tree-top
where a native is pointing excitedly sea-
wards. In no time the coast-watcher has
joined him and has seized his binocu-
lars. A murmur of excitement breaks
from his lips, for the warship coming
into view is, without doubt, a heavy
Bin.-gun Jap cruiser! Her curious undu-
lating deck-line and the tilt of her main-
mast should, he tells himself, help to
identify her. Down from the tree, he
examines diagrams containing silhouettes
of Japanese men-of-war and identifies the
class to which the cruiser belongs.
The text of the sighting-report he
intends to transmit has been forming in
his mind ; and he immediately begins to
code a message. After checking the
groups he moves off to a well-concealed
trench where his teleradio is installed,
clicks-on the transmission-switch and
calls Advanced Base. Not until he has
received a repetition of his mumbo-
jumbo is he satisfied.
Once more he settles himself comfort-
ably on the ground, but he is no longer
immersed in his reading; his ears are
cocked expectantly for a certain sound.
The minutes pass: 10 . . . 15 . . .
20 . . .
And now there comes the drone of
approaching aircraft.. They draw nearer:
near enough now for him to distinguish
their red-white-and-blue roundels. As
they pass overhead the small group of
watchers can scarcely refrain from cheer-
ing them on.
The sighting-report has indicated place
and time of sighting, course on which
the jap cruiser was proceeding and her
approximate speed. Provided with all
this data, the aircraft should be able
to locate her at any moment now.
They have! The sound of ack-ack fire
punctures the air. The tempo of the
sound increases rapidly. Presently a
deep, heavy sound, a soul-searing sound
which shakes the very ground beneath
them, beats upon the ears of the listen-
ing group. It comes from an exploding
bomb. The ack-ack fire rises to a frenzied
{Continued on page 55)
A GROUP OF COAST-WATCHERS AND SUPPORTING NATIVES.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWSI7I (3 lines) BLf>327
Cables & Telegrams
EMDECELEX.” Sydney
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
207 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
Business, Robbery, Etc.
STILL ROARING UPWARDS
A study of the national
statistics for the financial
year which ended on June 30
last discloses no real grounds
for the great rise in Australian
share prices which has taken
place during 1958-59 and since
the close of the financial year.
It would appear that in-
creases in profit on the scale
exhibited by Minster, Ltd. (B.
29/7/’59), for example, will be
the exception rather than the
rule when all company results
are available. Even companies
now making bonus - issues
sometimes show only a com-
paratively small rise in profits.
A factor in recent rises in
share prices (apart from the
inflow' of overseas capital) has
been internal rearrangement of
existing resources —revaluation
of assets, disclosure of inner
reserves, bonus-issues, easing
of plough-back and increased
dividends. Additionally, of
course, there has been the take-
over boom, which has led to
speculation among all sorts of
stocks and some astonishing
rises. Among the prevailing
rumors there are undoubtedly
many false assumptions, and
there will be equally many dis-
appointments.
For several years past a
number of companies have
been engaged in extensive
visible and invisible plough-
back of profits, and the pur-
poses for which this plough-
back was made —usually expan-
sion of capacity may have
now been completed, or may be
approaching completion. Relief
from the necessity for plough-
back is already prompting
some companies to increase
their div.-distributions either
directly or through making
bonus-issues. But their present
profit-earning rate may not
have greatly increased, except
through economies possible
through new plant-additions.
National production figures
for 1958-59, while generally up
a little, in some cases showed
regression. But there was
progress, on the whole, especi-
ally in building and building-
materials and consumer-
durables. Textiles slipped
again, and coal and steel were
fairly static.
A good enough year ; but by
no means, as indicated pre-
viously, reason by itself for a
“ —the Nicco Tobacco Company —‘Sir, Re your
sample-box of cigars' ...."
sharemarket to go on . roaring
upwards for a period of nearly
12 months. On the face of
production figures, industry
generally will need to have
altered its accounting methods
to a less stringent basis if con-
siderably greater overall net
profits are to be shown for
1958-59. There may be room
in a number of cases for
higher dividends out of a
level already established in
previous years, but higher divi-
dends from increased profits
are likely to be rarities —sub-
ject, as already mentioned, to
a less conservative approach
by some boardrooms in their
profit-writing.
Costs, because of the lift in
the Federal basic wage, are
bound to rise during the
present financial year, and,
though wool prices and other
export indicators are now
more favorable than they were
six months ago, they are not
back to the levels of previous
years. Competition within our
secondary industries is growing
keener all the time.
The inflow of overseas
capital is not income: it is
capital on which dividends will
have to be paid by the Aus-
tralian economy—-and trans-
mitted out of Australia. This
capital is most welcome, but it
carries its obligations as well as
its advantages.
The inflow of capital to Aus-
tralia has been prompted by
considerations on the part of
overseas investors which are
not necessarily applicable to
the Australian investor. But
overseas buying, and Aus-
tralian institutional buying, are
tending to set a pattern at
present which is not a profit-
able one, from the income
point of view, to the Australian
investor. Should the overseas
and institutional influence on
the Australian sharemarket
wane perceptibly, more selec-
tive buying by the Australian
personal investor would almost
certainly bring a sharp down-
ward revision of prevailing
sharemarket levels.
The safest plan today is to
invest with a regard to dividend
yields, present or potential.
And the potential yield should
not be one that is too far
removed. This will immedi-
ately exclude many high-priced
stocks.
The sharemarket today is
betting on a lot of things, all to
happen in the future, and often
in the unpredictable future. It
is almost a certainty that the
odds will lengthen before most
of those things happen —if they
ever happen—and that share
prices will drop from their
optimistic perch - before a
sober reassessment puts a
reliable figure on their true
value.
Sell Half?
TiyCANY investors looking at
-*•*-*- prevailing high prices for
their share - holdings, but
wondering what they would do
with their money if they sold,
could consider selling half
their holdings and letting the
other half (if it is in good
stock) take its chance.
The proceeds of the half-
sale could be put into special
bonds (up to £5000), which
yield from 4\ p.c. to 5 p.c., and
are repayable at cost or better
on giving notice to the Com-
monwealth Treasury.
High Stakes
For the second time this year,
Melbourne “Herald” has
protested against the unreal
share prices on ’Change, adding
its weight to the warning that
The Bulletin has been sound-
ing for so long, and suggest-
ing that it is time some finance
and investment authorities told
the public frankly what they
think about the soaring Stock
Exchange prices.
Despite the good grounds for
a steady advance in top
industrial stocks including
the higher population,
industrial expansion, the better
spread of national income, and
investment money from abroad
—the “Herald” says that some
recent market gains have gone
beyond what is justified, by old
standards at least.
The question is whether


Wishing wont make it so!
* *.»i*. *
W 6
Sa
VVr;
Plan for the future with an
A.N.Z. SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
where your money earns
3% INTEREST
on balances up to £2,000
Turn pipe dreams into reality with this
simple formula:
(1) Open an A.N.Z. Savings Account by
calling at any A.N.Z. Savings Bank
Branch.
(2) Decide how much you can afford to
save each payday.
(3) Pay in this sum regularly to your
A.N.Z. Savings Bank Account.
A-N-Z
•♦ » ,
Plan ahead . . . Bank A.N.Z.
A.N.Z. SAVINGS BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ANZ543.2458
Australia’s great future is being
anticipated rather too fever-
ishly ; companies cannot go on
pumping-out more and more
capital-issues without careful
assessment of dividend-
capacity.
No fears need be held for
the big-moneyed man or for
the professional speculator, but
there should be thought for
the others who may be tempted
by soaring prices to take-on
risks they can’t afford.
The “Herald’s” editorial
appeared, unusually, on its
finance page, and its publica-
tion coincided with a series
of articles on the evils and
fascination of the poker-
machines licensed in N.S.W.
The chief distinction seemed to
be that with the poker-machines
the player knew in advance he
would lose.
The newspaper editorial
brought some support from
weighty quarters - Staniforth
Ricketson, the sharebroker and
protagonist of substantial
financing companies, and
George Ensten, chairman of
the Australian Bankers’ Asso-
ciation, Smong others.
Ricketson said the market
was one of those that tradi-
tionally flew its own warning-
signals, and, although the
economic situation was not
intrinsically unsound, investors
should remember share prices
can go down as well as up.
Even Sir Arthur Warner,
chairman of Electronic In-
dustries, who has ridden high
on the big boom, rates it a
market on which losses might
be more easily made than
profits, especially if the inflow
of overseas money stops.
Allan and Stark Takeover
After ten days of market
speculation, Cox Bros.
(Aust.) offered to acquire the
ordinary capital of Allan and
Stark (Brisbane) for 60s. cash
per share and the preference
capital for 30s. cash. The next
day another Melbourne bidder,
the Myer Emporium, Ltd.,
capitalising on the market
premium on its shares, offered
two-and-a-half ss. stock-units
for each of the 855,000 £1
ordinary shares and one-and-
a-half stock-units for each
of the 155,000 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. An additional attrac-
tion lay in Myer’s offer
to allow the issue of unsecured
notes to be completed, and,
when the notes are paid-up in
full, the noteholders are to
have their notes converted into
ordinary shares in Allan and
Stark, on the basis of four
fully-paid ordinary shares for
each five notes, whereupon they
will be entitled to participate
in the offer by Myer’s on the
same basis as the existing
ordinary shareholders.
Cox Bros’ chairman, Sir
Frank Richardson, countered
with an increased offer of
675. 6d. cash for the ord.
shares and 40s. for the prefs.
This offer then bettered Myer’s
alternate cash offer of 625. 6d.
and 375. 6d., respectively, for
the ordinary and preference
shares. The original offer by
Myer’s was then recommended
by the board of Allan and
Stark in a letter to A. and S.
shareholders.
Sir Frank Richardson, chair-
man of Cox Bros., then said
his company bowed to the
board’s decision, and Cox
Bros, would not make a further
offer.
Provided that its offer is
accepted, Myer’s will control
the retail trade from both ends
of Brisbane, as well as a suc-
cessful drive-in shopping-
centre at Chermside. A
further drive-in centre, planned
by Allan and Stark, will be
completed if the deal goes
through.
Minties Not Peanuts!
'T'he anticipated James Sted-
•*- man Henderson’s Sweets
bonus-issue was announced
last week, and it wasn’t pea-
nuts. A holding-co. is being
formed, and two £1 ords. in
the new co. will be offered for
each £1 ord. now held. This
will be, in effect, a one-for-one
ord. bonus.
It is expected to pay 10 p.c,


iiiwest i m
The longest established hire-purchase company
in Australia,
M 3 c
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years
7%
4 years 6Va% 3 years 6% 2 years 5Va%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3Va%
Application Forms and Prospectus
• Any A.G.C. Branch • Your Stockbroker
• Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth
Hobart
Underwriting brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
S 2
on the doubled capital, against
15 p.c. at present, so that there
will be a rise to 20 p.c. in the
effective dividend.
This is another co. with
which Raymont Moore
(present chairman) has had an
association (since 1950) that has
pulled-up wonderfully well
over the years. Before he came
into the picture shareholders
got a long-delayed taste in
1925 as a result of the success
of Minties and the benefits of
a distribution arrangement with
Nestles. But it wasn’t much,
and depression struck at a
critical time. Average div. over
the quarter-century to 1950
was under 5 p.c.
A feature of the company’s
financial policy during a long
period was a steady write-
down of plant (notwithstanding
modernisation and extensions)
and non-disclosure of taxation
provisions. Plant dropped in
the books from £476,351 in
1932 to £179,652 at June 30,
1955. Apparently The
Bulletin’s comment in review-
ing the 1932 accounts —“Plant
is the item which catches the
eye. It means brisk turnover
if satisfactory profits are to
be won”—had the concurrence
of the board and was made
effective as soon as circum-
stances permitted.
At June 30, 1958, total fixed
assets of the co. were only
£505,620, compared with
£643,457 in 1932. In the mean-
time the Sweetacres property at
Rosebery (Sydney) should have
increased several times in value
(there are other freeholds as
well), and plant-capacity has
been enlarged in keeping with
an obviously expanding turn-
over.
Reserves had grown to
£972,500 at June 30, 1958,
against an ord. capital of
£530,690 (there are 100,000 10
p.c. £1 prefs.), and there are
Government loans with a face-
value of £400,000 tucked away,
£125,464 in cash, as well as
£207,213 of “other invest-
ments.”
It is a handsome balance-
sheet. The profit - and - loss
account is equally good-look-
ing, notwithstanding the omis-
sion of the tax figure. In-
cluding a £40,000 appropriation
to reserve for replacement of
plant and machinery (obviously
true profit) the net figure for
1957-58 was £232,763, equal to
31.2 p.c. on ord. capital. It
appears that profit for 1958-59
has been higher than for the
previous year, and an effective
20 p.c. div. on the reconstituted
capital should be easily covered,
especially in view of the co.’s
past heavy-handed depreciation
policy.
The Stedman business was
established over a century ago,
and linked-up with Hender-
son’s Sweets in 1920. It was an
optimistic merger, overcapital-
ised from the beginning, a
common weakness of recon-
structions in the 1920’5. But
shareholders are now ob-
viously grazing on Sweetacres,
with book-values very firm
indeed, and a lengthening list
of best-sellers among non-
chocolate as well as chocolate
varieties of sweets.
Australian Blue Metal
A placement by Australian
Blue Metal, Ltd., of
40,000 £1 stock-units at an un-
disclosed premium has been
made through Sydney stock-
brokers for the purpose of
acquiring, inter alia, an interest
in a joint venture [in conjunc-
tion with Industrial Sales
Holdings (W.A.)] in Road-
pavers, Ltd., recently incor-
porated in W.A. Roadpavers
will supply hot bituminous
road-paving in W.A. country
districts.
A subsidiary is also being
formed to provide ready-mixed
concrete in Perth.
These ne'vv activities will
assist in creating additional
outlets for blue-metal.
The bypassing of existing
shareholders in this instance is
explained by pointing-out that
the general policy of the board,
when considerable sums are
required for expansion, is that
stockholders will be given the
opportunity to subscribe, but
in this instance it was thought
more desirable to make a
placement at a premium.
Petrochemicals
"Dremier Bolte’s expectation
of great growth in the
petrochemical industry in Vic-
toria seems well founded. The
petrochemical industry is
among the major growth-
industries of the present
generation.
It is concerned with trans-
forming the by-products of
petroleum-refining into raw
materials for use in the textile,
rubber, detergent, paint, ferti-
liser, plastic and other in
dustries, and was given a great
boost during the Second World
War by the search for synthetic
substitutes.
The current world output is
expected to treble within the
next decade, and Australian
production will be high. Four
plants will be established at
Altona (Vic.).
Using selected oils from the
refinery, these plants will make
synthetic rubber and raw
materials for the plastics and
other industries, and the value
of annual production is esti-
mated at £ll million within two
years.
Another plant will be con-
structed at Silverwater, near
Sydney.
The main producers of petro-
chemicals in 1958, according
to the Institute of Public
Affairs Victoria, were (in
thousand tons): U.S.A., 19,278;
Britain, 327 ; West Germany,
187 ; France, 142 ; Italy, 130.
“Post” Trading in Sydney
"posT trading was introduced
sucessfully on Sydney
’Change last Thursday in
respect of 25 stocks usually
dealt-in vigorously each day.
They range from venerable
institutions like the C.S.R. to
spectacular latecomers like
Rothmans.
Post trading allows a selected
stock to be dealt-in over an
extended period both in the
morning and afternoon, and it
is now possible for a client to
’phone his broker at 11.30 a.m.
and buy or sell 8.H.P., or any
other “post” stock, completing
the transaction on the morning
session. Previously it was
necessary to place the order
before 10 a.m., as B.H.P.
would be “called” once only,
and comparatively early,
during the morning, and then
not dealt-in again until the
afternoon. A “post” deals con-
tinuously in particular stocks
so long as the post is open.


Follow the modern trend
in house design...and specify
the world’s strongest
roofing material
II
I
H :
\ --
V *
■K
• »•«* V
.vsK'*
'■■ ;
■■ :•- ■•■' ' -
sssm
m
II
n
D
-5?
wiililiil
OKB
No matter what type of roof you prefer flat, butterfly,
gable, skillion or hip Lysaght Steel Sheet will express
your ideas perfectly, adding the crowning touch to any
modern home design.
When you compare costs, you will find that a Lysaght
roof results in really worth-while savings . . . enabling
you to stretch your building loan to the utmost.
This most attractive of roofs is unbreakable too, because
Lysaght Red Orb is made especially hard for roofing
purposes.
Why not investigate this beautiful, practical roofing
material today?
Free —
• Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel
Sheet.
• Prepainted
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
• Flat
Galvanized
Steel Sheet.
Galvanized
STEEL
H «fesi %i 9m .
WM
wmmm
in
£ u
MRS E"®' I
low cost home
plans booklet!
Send today for your copy of
these helpful low-cost home
designs, ideal for all modern-
minded budget-minded home
planners.
HOME
PLANS
«D»
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney.
Please send me free and post free, your new set of low cost
home plans,
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE .
GI69XC


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY. Chairman; E. W. DUESBURY, Deputy
Chairman; ALFRED S. WHITE, A. G. PARKER.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. B. J. LANE, Manager,
’Phone; BU 7401 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Fountains for Sydney
The achievement of con-
temporary abstract sculpture
has been chiefly to set forms
free and flying. Often enough,
in the little pieces you see
around the exhibitions, this
does not amount to very much.
They are free, and they fly,
and so what? Their appeal
is purely formal; they have
no meaning beyond the formal;
they have no contact with life.
But when these same abstract
forms are applied for use in a
fountain it is a different
story. No matter how many
superb realistic or semi-realistic
designs have been used in the
past, there is no reason why
realism has to be used in a
fountain. All you want to do
is to take the water up and
make it fly, and this is some-
thing that abstract forms can
do supremely well. And her;e
abstraction takes on meaning
and life: for it is performing
a function that gives it meaning,
and the water gives it life.
For that reason the exhibi-
tion of designs and models for
fountains at David Jones’
Gallery is quite fascinating.
Imagine these little sculptures
flowing and flowering with
water, and nearly all of them
look delightful. In fact, so
pleasing are they in themselves,
and so great is Sydney’s need
for fountains that it would be
a pity if only the prizewinners
on display here are used.
The exhibition is the result
of three competitions organised
by the Sydney Fountains Com-
mittee, of which Lord Mayor
Jensen is president.
The first, for a fountain
costing £10,000 to be erected in
the Fitzroy Gardens, King’s
Cross, carried a first-prize of
£5OO. This was won by two
young architects, R. Wood-
ward and P. Taranto, with a
design that looks like a huge
globe of fire, a sort of watery
catherine-wheel. Second-prize
(£100) went to the well-known
sculptor G. F. Lewers, whose
flying bronze birds have his
usual admirable compromise
between realism and abstrac-
tion.
A third entry, by Kenneth
Reynolds, was commended in
this section ; and the judges
All Mr own
work
must also have found it diffi-
cult to pass-by G. Bisietta’s
piled-up icebergs and O.
Broughton’s cones thrusting up
like bronze arum-lilies.
The second competition, for
a fountain to be erected at
Bushy Bore in Hyde Park
North at a cost of £l5OO,
carried a prize of £lOO and was
won by J.. B. Byrom, who, aged
24, has just completed an archi-
tectural course at Sydney Tech.
His is a simple design of sand-
stone cascades. It is not so
much to look at as a design,
but as a way of making water
move prettily over stone it
should look as well as any
other device ; and it is said to
be appropriate for its setting.
G. F. Lewers was commended
in this section.
Competition No. 3, for the
Clarrie Martin Memorial
Fountain in the law-courts in
Queen’s Square, was won by
V. Arnall, another young Syd-
ney sculptor, with a charming
model in bronze that looks
something like tulips and some-
thing like reeds and from which
the water is to splay out like
petals of a flower.
All in all, it is an admirable
show, and a most welcome
movement.
* *
Eric Smith
In his big show of big paint-
ings at Farmer’s Blaxland
Galleries, Sydney, Eric Smith
seems to this commentator
once again to be attempting to
paint the utterly unpaintable.
It is a courageous attempt,
and it is done with great sin-
cerity and considerable skill
and delicacy ; but it is just not
possible to put on canvas such
a conception as “The Throne
of Christ the King.” What is
in Eric Smith’s mind, clearly
enough, is a blaze of unearthly
splendor, radiant and tender ;
but what is on the canvas in
this huge picture is a pretty
dance of colors that might just
as well be entitled “Rose
Garden” or might even be
used simply as a design for
textiles.
As such, as design and color,
nearly all his big paintings are
attractive and might well have
their place as murals. Some
of the abstracts, such as
“Autumn,” are full of sug-
gestion. But it is in his smaller,
quieter, more realistic paintings
such as “The Scourged Christ”
and “Pilate Washing his
Hands,” where the primitive
approach is still finely imbued
with dignity and humanity,
that he comes closest to achiev-
. ing that moment of awe and
stillness in which art really can
catch something of the splendor
that goes beyond art.
Stage and Music
“Apntie Mame”
The quick-change history of
Auntie Mame at Sydney Royal
reminded one of. Frank
Harvey’s performance in
“My Lady’s Dress”; but
where Harvey had to change
both clothes and character
for each episode, Shirl Con-
way had to change only
her clothes and her age.
Miss Conway ranged from the
farce of the city woman
betrayed into riding a wild
thoroughbred sidesaddle, in
riding-boots that wouldn’t go
on, to a New York aristocrat
putting a pair of suburban
snobs in their places (here she
played with a severe finish
reminiscent of Cornell), and
was in all things, as was Harvey,
a treatise on style; not an
intonation lost, not a gesture
wasted. And maybe her in-
numerable clothes - changes
might not have seemed so
gorgeous if she hadn’t worn
them so well.
In this story of the open-
handed, open-armed, open-
housed New York woman be-
queathed the care of her
brother’s young son, her loss
of fortune in the depression,
her efforts to get jobs, marriage
to a Southern oil-millionaire,
loss of him in Switzerland, and
plot to prevent the unsuitable
marriage of her ward, the
multiplicity of scenes leaves
you amazed that it’s only
10.45. Full-stage, front-stage,
half-stage, vignette—it runs on
with the variety of a film.
In the same way the multi-
plicity of actors, all with real
parts, makes it hard to hand-
out the buns ; but one might
mention the lush actress by
Vera Clyne, the throaty Irish
poet by Frederick Parslow, the
bespectacled stenographer by
Joan Harris, and especially Pat
McDonald and M a lc o 1 m
Phillips’s Upson couple, the
suburban elite from the ex-
clusive neighborhood. Miss
McDonald’s round-eyed beam-
ing smile was an unforgettable
epitome of a species. And these
were only a few of the 30 or
40 who made so pleasant an


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO KEITH THOMAS EVANS late of
Woy Woy.—TAKE NOTICE that JEAN
MARGARET EVANS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1774 of 1959 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 19th day of October 1959
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney, New South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
TO EDWARD JOHN DAVEY late of
Abermain.—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY
MARGARET DAVEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1301 of 1959 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building, Macquarie Street Sydney
by the 19th day of October 1959 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney, New South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Advertising Salesman
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., has a vacancy
for an Advertising Representative to sell space in
“THE BULLETIN”
and
6
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
on a retainer, commission and expenses basis.
Applications, to be addressed to Advertising Repre-
sentative, c/o The Secretary, Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
should state the applicant’s age and previous selling
experience, and will be treated in strictest confidence.
evening of this bit of theatrical
virtuosity.
R. MeC.
* ❖ ❖
Jan Peerce
This latest visiting tenor is
American-born and -trained,
with a naturally splendid voice
of big range, equipped both
technically and interpretatively
to deal with a respectable
range of song, and can even
out-Italian the Italians in
bel canto .
Most noticeable about his
voice is the complete absence
of “gear-change” l —the three
registers flow indivisibly into
each other. His mastery of
tone, both in color and
volume, is accomplished with
ease right from the usual
tenor heights down almost to
baritone territory. He is
meticulous in phrasing, his
voice is flexible enough to
handle fast florid passages
with facility, and he has a
secure and smooth legato.
Of this latter he made a
classical exposition in the song
with which he made his bow
to Sydney audiences: “Only
Be Still,” from Bach’s Cantata
No. 93; following with a
gracefully-sung “Chi Vuol’
Inamorarsi,” by Alessandro
Scarlatti. “Sound an Alarm,”
from “Judas Maccabeus,” was
a sample of declamatory sing-
ing given in true heroic style,
with all stops out.
A Schubert group included
“Der Doppelganger,” with the
voice suitably darkened;
“Wohin,” one of the loveliest
of the composer’s many brook-
songs, all bubbling velocity ;
and a round - spinning
“Ungeduld.”
In operatic arias where
emotion is given free rein
Peerce is especially effective;
for instance, in “Farewell,
Mother,” from “Cavalleria” —
sung so vividly that one almost
looked for the stiletto Alfio is
about to use on his rival.
“Vesti La Giubba,” that piece
of blood-soaked raging passion
from “Pagliacci,” emerged as
just that. More dignified was
Alfredo’s rapturous “Dei
Miei” from “Traviata.”
“Questa O Quella” caught
much of the bounce and boast
of the profligate Duke of
Mantua, and a recitative and
aria from Verdi’s rarely-heard
“Louisa Miller” was a vocal
conflagration.
There were also ballads and
art-songs —some good, like
Hageman’s “Music I Heard
With You,” Roger Quilter’s
setting of “Blow, Blow, Thou
Winter Wind,” and Leon-
cavallo’s lively “Mattinata,”
and a few best forgotten, such
as the sentimental “Blue Bird
of Happiness.”
The accompanist, Walter
Bass, was a keen if somewhat
“hard” collaborator.
<s* >*«
“The Tunnel of Love”
There’s nothing dark or
mysterious about “The Tunnel
of Love,” now at Her
Majesty’s in Brisbane. Most
of it takes place in the blazing
light of an artist’s studio in
Westport, Connecticut, where
a caricaturist whose pictures
don’t sell is having trouble
with a marriage that won’t
produce an heir.
Much of the play seems to
proceed on the assumption
that whisky has a direct effect
on fertility, and one often has
the distracting thought that if
any more of it is poured the
company must go bankrupt
before the final curtain.
Michael Pate, as artist Augie
Poole, makes the most of the
pleasant accent he caught
while in the U.S., and puts
his rather serious features to
work suggesting the deep-
down anxiety of the non-
productive poppa.
The funniest scenes take him
into a frigid encounter with
an attractive social-worker
(Lisa Hamilton) who is bent
on a strictly objective investi-
gation of the Pooles as fit and
proper people to adopt a baby.
When she comes back after
working-hours to accept the
drink she refused earlier in
the day, feelings run distinctly
warmer, and the fact that the
next big scene takes nine
months to develop tells the
rest.
Pate’s wife, Felippa Rock,
joins him as Isolde Poole and
gives a pretty picture of one
of those absolutely likeable
American women who must
make life attractive for the
American male. Her lightness
of touch is matched by a very
funny performance from Old
Vic actor Kevin Miles as a
cynical editor who has a new
baby every year and still
remains predatory among the
local ladies.
The only barrier to enjoy-
ment of this piece that never
asks to be taken very seriously
is one of language. The script
was not without its subtle
points and even supposed a
knowledge of famous Ameri-
can colleges. Some of this
was quite funny, but failed to
draw laughs that were well
deserved. Which suggests that
we may not know our United
States as well as might be
expected after 30 years of film-
going. Nevertheless, the play is
still funny most of the way, and
does not leave that feeling of
a wasted evening which comes
after too many of the smart
comedies now current.
D. J. M.
❖ ♦>
New Ballet in Perth
Mainly confined to news-
reels, the spectacular beach-
life of Australia has been
passed over, on the whole, by
artists and writers an
amazing omission, considering
the part it plays in the national
consciousness.
Now, with a ballet named
“The Beach Inspector and the
Mermaid,” composer James
Penberthy—the rights of whose
opera, “Dalgerie,” were bought
by the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust after an impressive
premiere at this year’s Festival
of Perth —has challenged this
neglect.
Presented by the W.A. State
Ballet Company, with choreo-
graphy by Madame Kira Bous-
loff, on its opening-night this
amusing tour de force delighted
a large audience at the Capitol
Theatre.
With the composer conduct-
ing, the curtain rose on a
familiar, attractive scene: an
enormous comber (designed by
artist Romola Clifton to curl
but never break) towered
against a blue sky ; warm sun-
light bathed the bathers play-
ing on the beach ; the inspector
prowled in shirt and shorts
amid a manufacturer’s dream
of swim-clothes, the wearers of
which tossed balls, played leap-
frog and generally had fun
until the lifesavers (real ones,
more impressive with their
uniforms and formalised move-
ments than the corps de ballet)
arrived with their lines to save
—a mermaid
The Inspector (Frank Kata-
lenich) took her, glistening
green and blue, into his arms.
But a zipper soon allowed
Janice Ericson to slough-off
the hampering tail and dance
with both the Inspector and a
beach-lounger (Raymond
Trickett) before diving back
(Continued on page 49)


THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria under the “Companies Act 1890”) HEAD OFFICE: 335-339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
1. The Board of Directors submits to the Stockholders the accom-
panying Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the year ended
30th June, 1959, with Auditors’ Report.
2. The net Profit amounts to .. .. .. .. £591.981 19 3
to which is added amount brought forward .. 255,613 0 11
Making a total of .. .. .. .. .. £847,595 0 2
From this amount the Directors have made the following
appropriations, viz.:—
To Reduction of Bank Premises .. £50,000 0 0
~ Interim Dividend on Preference
Stock at 2% paid February, 1959,
in Australian Currency .. .. 42,347 0 0
„ Interim Dividend on Ordinary
Stock at 5% paid February, 1959,
in Australian Currency .. .. 205.293 8 0
297,640 8 0
leaving a Balance of £549.954 12 2
which it is proposed to apportion as follows: ;
To Final Dividend on Preference Stock at 2% in
Australian Currency .. .. .. .. .. 42,347 0 0
„ Final Dividend on Ordinary Stock at 5% in
Australian Currency .. .. .. .. .. 205,293 8 0
„ carry forward to next year 302.314 4 2
£549,954 12 2
3. In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the year's operations
as shown in the Profit and Loss Account have not been materially
affected by items of an abnormal character.
4. During the year, Branches have been opened at Croydon and
Lilydale in Victoria, and Dee Why, Liverpool and Penrith in New
South Wales. The Receiving Offices at Black Rock. Thomastown and
Williamstown in Victoria; Nelson Bay in New South Wales and East
Victoria Park in Western Australia have been converted into Branches.
5. In accordance with the Articles of Association, two Directors
retire by rotation at this Meeting, viz.. Mr. C. F. Meares and Mr. F. S.
Vine, C.M.G. They are eligible for re-election and have given the neces-
sary notice of candidature.
6. Mr. H. P. Glass having resigned the position of Auditor of
the Bank owing to ill health, the Directors appointed Mr. G. L. Allard
to fill the casual vacancy thus created. The Meeting will be required
to elect two Auditors for the ensuing twelve months.
For Dividend purposes the Transfer Books will be closed from
5 p.in. on sth August, 1959, until the 20th August, 1959, inclusive.
By Order of the Board.
H. F. CLARKE.
Melbourne, 23rd July, 1959. General Manager.
Balance Sheet of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED as at 30th JUNE, 1959
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency)
LIABILITIES 1959
Authorised Capital— £ £
300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each .. 3,000.000
14,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10/- each .. 7,000.000
10.000.000
Issued and Fully Paid Capital—
-211,735 Preference Stock Units of £lO per
unit 2.117.350
8.211,736 Ordinary Stock Units of 10/- per
unit .. .. .. .. .. .. 4.105,868
Paid-up Capital 6,223.218
Reserve Fund, including Share Premium Account
£1,260.000 (used in the business of the Bank) 3.610.000
Final Dividends proposed payable, August, 1959 247,640
Balance of Profit and Loss Account .. .. 302.314
Total Stockholders’ Funds .. .. .. .. .. .. 10,383,172
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including
provisions for Taxation and Contingencies .. .. .. 221,370,503
Notes in Circulation .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 5.101
Balances due- to Other Banks .. .. .. .. .. 492.000
Amount due to Subsidiary Company .. .. .. .. 100
232,250,936
Contingent Liabilities on Letters of Credit, Drafts. Guaran-
tees and Other Engagements 8,333,156
£240.584.092
ASSETS 1950
£
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New Zealand
Notes and Cash at Bankers .. .. .. 14,736,694
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks .. 6,932,452
Balances with and due from Other Banks .. .. .. 439,149
Money at Short Call—
Australia 3.375.000
London 3.750,000
7.125.000
Treasury Bills —
Australian Government .. .. .. .. .. .. 3.000,000
Public Securities (at or under market value)—
Australian Government .. .. .. .. 22.549.635
Other Government .. .. .. 1,170,903
Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities .. 485,705
24.206,243
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia .. 26,748,000
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit .. .. .. 18.901,530
102,059,00 S
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting Pro-
vision for'Debts considered Bad or Doubtful ) .. .. 122,281,096
Bank Premises. Furniture and Sites (at cost, less amounts
written off) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6.014,635
Shares in wholly-owned Subsidiary Company (at cost).
(The Subsidiary Company has not traded at any time,
and has made neither Profit nor Loss; its only Asset
is a Deposit of £lOO with this Bank) .. .. - .. 100
All Other Assets .. .. . . . . .. .. .. 1,565,437
232,250,936
Contingent Assets including Liabilities of Customers and
others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as
per contra .. .. 8,333,156
£240,554.092
Profit & Loss Account of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD. in respect of the year ended 30th June, 1959
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency)
1959
£
To Expenses Head Office. 782 Branches and Agencies
(including Directors’ Fees £4,500) .. .. .. .. 6.484,964
~ Income, Land and Other Taxes .. .. .. .. 724,970
„ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down .. 591,952
£7.801.916
To Amounts written off Bank Premises 50.000
~ Dividends—
Interim paid February, 1959 .. .. *247,641
Final, proposed payable August, 1959 .. 247.640
495.251
„ Balance carried forward .. .. .. 302,314
£847,595
1959
£
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange, Commis-
sions and Other Income after deducting Interest Paid
and accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills Current at
balance date and Appropriations to the Credit of Con-
tingencies Accounts (out of which Accounts provision for
all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been made) .. .. 7.501,916
£7,801.916
By Net Balance brought forward .. .. 255.613
„ Net Profit for the Year .. .. ... .. .. .. 591,982
£847,595
By Balance . i .. .. .. .. .. .. £302,314
We. HENRY FOLLETT CLARKE, General Manager, and RONALD HERBERT SMITH. Secretary, of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED, do solemnly' and sincerely declare that the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used in the business, and
that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account of the Bank are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, correct in every
particular.
And we make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament
of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 23rd day of July, One thousand nine hundred and fifty-nine.
Before me— A Commissioner for taking Declarations and 11. F. CLARKE.
E. P. WILD. Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.” R. H. SMITH.
We. VICTOR YULE KIMPTON and COLIN FORSYTH MEARES, of Melbourne, being Directors of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED, declare that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair view of the state
of the Company’s affairs, and that the Profit and Loss Account exhibits a true and fair view of the results of the business of the Company
for the year ended 30tli June. 1959. n behalf of the Board v - Y - KIMPTON.
Dated at Melbourne this 23rd day of July, 1959. ‘ ’ COLIN F. MEARES.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE STOCKHOLDERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
We have examined the foregoing Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss
audited statements received from Messrs. Jackson, Pixley & Co., relating
ants, as regards all branches in Australia and New Zealand, none of
In our opinion, the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account are
Act, 1958, so as to give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s
Company for the year ended on that date.
We have received every assistance from Officers of the Bank and have
Melbourne, 23rd July, 1959.
Account with the books and records at the Head Office, together with
to the London branches, and returns certified by Managers and Account-
which was visited by us.
properly drawn up, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies
affairs as at 30th June, 1959, and of the results of the business of the
obtained all the information and explanations we have required.
E. FOOKES (
G. L. ALLARD f
Chartered Accountants.


The WILD CAT
COLUM
Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Co.
'T'his big Australian offshoot of the
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.,
Akron (U.S.A.), has just completed 31
years of trading with a pleasing record
of vigorous growth and technical and
financial achievement. It was to sidestep
the tariff that the co. —it stepped into a
ready-made connection built-up by an
importing subsidiary—erected a factory
at Granville (N.S.W.), where production
began early in 1927. The Australian
public put-up £300,000 in 8 p.c. cum.
prefs., and the American parent took
half-a-million ords. for cash. Its holding
has since grown to £1,250,000, of which
£250,000 is bonus-scrip issued in 1934.
For the first five years, and again for
the three years ended 1952, the parent
took nothing out of the business. Divi-
dends began to flow in 1932. Some high
rates were paid during the post - war
boom, and in 1953 and 1954 chunky
distributions of 40 p.c. (£500,000) and
80 p.c. (£1,000,000) were made. Since
then, however, no moneys have been
remitted to America. The average dis-
tribution for the 31 years to December
31 last was only 14.4 p.c., sweetened
with the bonus-scrip issue in 1934.
Profits ploughed-back over the years
have made possible the rapid and very
profitable development of the co. Since
the war ended, demand for the co.’s
expanding range and growing volume of
products has run ahead of output. Last
term saw the completion of a vast £2-
million expansion and modernisation
plan inaugurated in 1956. New plant,
new methods of manufacture and new
and improved materials have been insti-
tuted at Granville. Production in ail
departments, including motor-tyres,
where capacity is now 6000 tyres a day,
has been substantially increased to meet
the ever-bigger demand for tyres, tubes,
etc., arising from the expansion of the
motor, transportation, mining, primary
and secondary industries, as well as the
overall rapid growth in population of
the country. Although tyres and tubes
account for the bulk of the co.’s output,
production spreads to a variety of tyre-
repair and retread materials, batteries and
accessories, industrial hose and conveyor-,
electric- and transmission-belting.
Goodyear’s net profit last year cata-
pulted to £899,134 (up £428,423) after
setting aside £601,206 (up £170,846) for
tax and providing for depreciation
(amount unstated) at a lower level:
Parent Co.
r —Dividends
Pref. Qrd. To Re- Re-
Dec. Profit. 8 p.c. 36.8 p.c. serves, serves.
£> £• £ £• £
1950.. 59G.244 24,000 572,244 1,322,290
From tax reserve, £IBO,OOO . . 1,502,290
1951.. 750,844 24,000 726,844 2,229,134
From inner reserves, £143,878 . . 2,373,012
1952.. 452,689 24,000 428,689 2,801,701
From inner reserves, £132,000 .. 2,933,701
40 p.c.
1953.. 807,732 24,000 500,000 283,732 3,217,433
80 p.c.
1954.. 816,262 24,000 1,000,000 3,009,695
Parent and Subsidiary.
1955.. 907,898 24,000 - 883,89.8 3,893,593
1956.. 710,177 24,000 .680,177 4,579,770
Tax overprovided, £35,000 .. .. 4,614,770
1957.. 470,711 24,000 446,711 5,061,481
1958.. 899,134 24,000 875,134 5,936,015
Overhead costs increased, but improve-
ments effected to plant, and the increased
mechanisation at Granville, more than
counterbalanced the rise, the higher
expenses being considerably outweighed
by gains from greater efficiency and
larger and more streamlined production.
Allowing for the pref. div., the profit
represented 70 p.c. on the £1,250,000 of
ords., compared with 35.7 p.c., 54.9 p.c.
and 70.7 p.c. back to 1955.
As previously mentioned, no divs.
were paid on ord. capital; the profits left
after paying £24,000 to the pref. share-
holders being retained in the business.
Reserves as a consequence jumped to a
high pile of £5,936,615 (up £875,134).
The impact of additions to buildings,
machinery and equipment is partially
veiled in the final accounts by deductions
for depreciation. Actually £415,512 was
added to the book-value of these assets,
but after allowing depreciation thereon
(the total accumulated provision,
£4,620,749, was up £589,624), a net drop
of £174,112 showed up in the balance-
sheet. The liability to debenture-holders
m p.c. mortgage-debentures maturing
1955-70) was reduced by £105,000 to
£2,080,000:
Paid capital— . 1956. 1957. 1958.
Pref. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. .. 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000
Reserves .. 4,579,771 5,061,481 5,936,615
Debentures .. 1,940,000 2,185,000 2,080,000
Creditors . . 934,987 1,035,911 561,943
Overdraft .. 609,593
Tax provision 1,094,911 968,795 1,032,877
£10,099,669 £11,410,780 £11,161,435
Freehold land 57,858 57,858 57,858
Buildings, plant 2,276,372 3,179,873 3,005,761
Stock .. 5,532,425 5,888,107 5,450,809
Debtors .. 2,179,462 2,256,617 2,565,777
Cash .. 53,552 28,325 81,230
£10,099,669 £11,410,780 £J1,161,435
The year’s improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£6,502,996) was
£954,246. The ratio of current assets
to current liabilities rose to sto 1.
Stock was down £437,298 at £5,450,809.
Debtors at £2,565,777 were up £309,160,
reflecting the greater volume of business
transacted. Creditors were sharply
reduced to £561,943 (down £473,968).
The previous year’s overdraft was com-
pletely eliminated (bank accommodation
was then £609,593). Provision for taxa-
tion was lifted to £1,032,877 (up
£64,082).
At the moment there is every indica-
tion that last year’s profit-earning
achievement will be bettered this term.
Sales of tyres have risen markedly over
the last 12 months, and prospects for
the remainder of 1959 are favorable.
Immediate outlook for the Australian
tyre-industry as a whole, appears opti-
mistic. Output of raw rubber in the
Territories of Papua and New Guinea
continues to rise. A general-purpose,
synthetic-rubber plant is to be estab-
lished in Australia by Vacuum Oil Co.
Pty. near its Altona refinery in Victoria.
Carbon-black, an essential material in
the manufacture of motor-tyres, will
shortly be manufactured, also, at Altona,
by the Australian Carbon Black Pty.
Until now all carbon-black has been
imported. In the near future the tyre-
industry should be able to get about half
its requirements from the new factory,
which will produce from 25-million lb.
to 30-million lb. of carbon-black a year,
and in so doing save Australia an annual
expenditure overseas of around £2 million.
On the other hand, but dependent upon
the pace of general development in Aus-
tralia and the consequent growth of
demand for the products of the tyre-
industry, competition could become
slightly keener later on, and perhaps
even acquire a sharp edge in 1960. The
industry’s export markets in Africa and
Asia have been encroached upon by,
and have suffered fairly substantially
from, intense Japanese competition. The
tyres previously shipped abroad will now
have to be disposed of in Australia. Of
more significance, however, another
major manufacturer of tyres has recently
appeared on the local scene. B. F.
Goodrich Australia Pty. (formed by the
International B. F. Goodrich Co., of
U.S.A., and Ampol Petroleum, of Aus-
tralia), with a factory in process of
erection in Victoria, plans to commence
production early next year.
At 265. the £1 prefs. offer a return of
6.2 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-values)
is £24 19s. Id.
Prestige, LtdT.
Prestige's performance usually gives a
-*• good indication of the trend of
fortunes in the touchy knitting-industry.
Results for the 12 months ended
March 31 reveal a somewhat more sober
picture than in the previous year, but,
on the whole, profits and earning-rates
were maintained at satisfactory levels.
The greatest contribution to con-
solidated profit was made by the hosiery
division. Manufacture of printed fabrics
showed a loss, while the fabrics section
of the group’s textiles division earned
less than in 1957-58. The New Zealand
subsidiary held its ground. Expansion
of the group’s manufacturing activities
in the Dominion continued, but condi-
tions were highly competitive, and it
is not expected that the extensions will
be of great help to revenue this year.
Among the industry’s main problems
are the increasingly keen competition,
stimulated by imports, and the necessity
to carry excess plant-capacity to cope
with demand - fluctuations. At times
slackening in demand has been consider-
able (resulting in price-cutting in the
trade), but it is essential to keep the
temporarily surplus productive - capacity
ready to respond promptly to any
picking-up. Another problem to be
faced by the leaders is the fast pace at
which machinery becomes obsolete.
Prestige’s management has consistently


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownliills.”
Telephone: BW 1465 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brownhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- - - - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—BYV 8088
allocated considerable funds to keeping
its plant modernised, but it has not
allowed the book-value to grow unduly.
Profit-earning reflected the more com-
petitive trading conditions met with
during the year:
Prestige, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.*
f Dividends •, To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.f
£ p.c. £ £ £
1953- 8&5 7ip.c. = 70,892 69,728 903,406
Net addition reserves, £5149 .. 908,555
1954- 8& 5 7* p.c.= 70,892 92,317 1,000,872
Tax overprovided, £2513 .. .. 1,003,385
Net reduction reserves, £2918 .. 1,000,467
1955- 8&5 9 p.c.= 81,422 104,077 1,104,544
Loss sale assets, £7446 .. .. 1,097,098
Tax overprovided, £3229 .. .. 1,100,327
Unexplained reduction, £2963 .. 1,097,364
1956- 8& 5 10 p.c.= 98,440 84,159 1,181,523
Tax underprovided, £BOB .. ..1,180,715
Loss sale assets, £4830 .. .. 1,175,885
From plant reserve, £183,621.. .. 992,264
Intangibles written-off, £19,384 .. 972,880
Unexplained additions, £2776 .. 975,656
1957- 8&5 10 p.c.= 98,632 74,251 1,049,907
Loss sale assets, £8312 .. ..1,041,595
Tax overprovided, £4070 .. .. 1,045,665
Intangibles written-off, £93,513 .. 952,152
Unexplained additions, £lOl4 .. 953,166
1958- 8 &5 10 p.c.= 99,176 107,257 1,060,423
Profit sale assets, £3854 .. .. 1.064,277
Taxation overprovided, £2530 .. 1,066,807
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£3083 1,063,724
1959- 8&5 10 p.e.=100,691 63,672 1,127,396
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
t Subject to intangibles, now written-off.
Profit from trading dropped by £95,124
to £281,827, and after providing £230,209
for ordinary depreciation (up £20,977),
and special depreciation of £24,919
(down £82,691), as well as directors’ fees
(£7684) and other expenses and provi-
sions, net profit was £52,070 lower at
£127,369. After allowing for the un-
changed pref.-div. requirements (£26,994),
the balance was equal to 18.1 p.c. on
ord. capital, compared with 25.6, 20.8,
22.2, 23.8 and 20.6 p.c. back to 1954.
The ord. div. was steady at 10 p.c., and
£63,672 was carried to reserves, which
also benefited by £3854 profit on sales
of fixed assets and overprovisions for
taxation of £2530.
Recent lifting of the imports-ceiling
by £SO-million will probably result in
further intensification of competition.
The much-feared Japanese exporters are
at the moment subject to certain Govern-
ment controls at home, and may exercise
some restraint in trying to obtain a larger
slice of the Australian markets, out of
fear of jeopardising their more long-term
chances of penetration.
Continuation of the policy of
large - scale, steady immigration and
full - employment seems to assure a
promising future for Prestige, although
profits might be further trimmed by stiffer
competition. Other important factors
are the seasonal fluctuations in 'con-
sumer-demand and unforeseen changes
in fashions, which combine to make
excessive stocks unsafe. Prestige's stocks
continue to show a very steady trend,
indicating that the rate of turnover is
being maintained.
Generally, the group has given a
creditable performance. Pleas for tariff
protection (hosiery manufacturers enjoy
some protective tariffs and are, moreover,
shielded by the Industries Preservation
Act) sounded much stronger in the
chairman’s address.
The company has not raised any share-
capital or note - money since 1957,
financing its development internally:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £478,050 £478,050 £478,050
Ord 701,978 701,978 701,978
Reserves .. .. 1,049,907 1,060,423 1,127,396
Outside interests .. 61,667 63,840 68,472
Loan .. .. 425,000 400,000 375,000
Notes .. .. 635,878 635,878 635,878
Overdraft .. .. 474,789 372,805 466,168
Creditors .. .. 333,375 453,842 391,741
Tax provision .. 176,708 179,401 147,281
Pinal divs. .. 68,702 69,246 69,361
£4,406,054 £4,415,463 £4,461,325
Freeholds .. .. 899,944 892,782 905,080
Plant .. .. 1,124,894 1,046,143 1,012,331
Shares .. .. 47,587 55,087 55,079
Stocks .. .. 1,524,354 1,724,789 1,737,126
Debtors .. .. 642,749 665,141 730,117
Cash, bonds .. 73,013 31,521 21,592
Intangibles .. 93,513
£4,406,054.£4,415,463 £4,461,325
Except for some shift to better liquidity,
the position has not changed much
recently. Overdraft last year increased
by £12,326, but creditors’ claims fell by
£62,101, and debtors rose by £64,976.
The effect of the £255,127 of deprecia-
tion charged against profits is noticeable,
in the fixed-assets figures.
Current pricing at 7s. Od. for ss. ords.
(with net tangible cover of 13s. per unit
and consistently strong reserves-backing)
shows continued market confidence
despite the drop in earnings. Yield for
ords. on this basis is £7 2s. lOd. per cent.
The group operates a well - integrated
structure: parent company’s hosiery and
lingerie plants are at Melbourne and
Horsham, Vic.; subsidiaries’ synthetics
and worsted-fabrics factories are located
at Ararat, Vic., textile-printing, -dyeing
and -finishing at Sunshine, Vic. Dis-
tribution is handled nationally by the
subsidiary H. G. Foletta and Co. Pty.
Ltd. In New Zealand there is the Prestige
(N.Z.) Ltd.
Brooklands (Holdings), Ltd.
T ast financial year was marked by
brisk business and increasing com-
petition in the motor industry. Turnover
was on the way up, but the proportion
of profit to sales declined, livelier com-
petition having resulted in heavier dis-
tribution and selling costs, which couldn’t
be passed on to the customer.
Considerable improvement in wool
prices towards the end of the term was
reflected in higher country sales. It is
expected that favorable conditions for
primary producers will continue this
year, with accruing benefits spreading
all round.
There are other promising aspects. It
has been generally hoped that some relief
in sales-tax would be made in the 1959-60
Federal Budget. Then there is the recent
f5O-million relaxation in import-
restrictions.
The Brooklands group continued to
expand its operational network, opening
three new branches: two in Victoria (at
Preston and Moorabbin) and one in
N.S.W. (at Arncliffe). All three branches
are strategically situated in key trading
territories.
In addition to absorbing new-establish-
ment expenses, the co. has acquired a
small initial interest in Wipan (Australia)
Pty., Ltd., which has begun manufac-
ture in Australia.
Previous year’s net results have been
almost identically reproduced in the
final figures for 12 months ended April
30. The co. has fully maintained its
share of the market and its pace of
development in the face of the prevailing
business rivalry:
Brooklands (Holdings), Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
Dividends
Pref To Re- Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. ( —Ord. N serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
“Goodwill,” etc., on reorganisation,
£164,899 373,803
Profit sale assets, £3292 .. .. .. 377,095
Tax overprovided, etc., £270 .. . . 377,365
Preliminary expenses written-off, £4628 372,737
1956.. 123.891 1750 15 p.c. = 74,208 47,933 420,670
Profit sale assets, £1753 .. .. .. 422,423
Tax underprovided, £1643 .. .. 420,780
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. .. 405,780
1957.. 124.018 1750 15 p.c. = 74,208 48,060 453,840
Profit sale assets, £367 .. .. .. 454,207
Tax overprovided, £5385 .. .. 459,592
1958.. 857 1750 12ip.c.- 61,840 37,267 496,859
Profit sale assets, £1370 .. .. 498.229
Tax overprovided, £lB9l .. .. 500,120
Transfer staff fund, £5OOO .. ..495,120
1959.. 330 1750 121p.c.=61,840 36,740 531,860
* After deducting intangibles, £187,038 at 30/4/’59.
Profit on trading operations decreased
by £6956 to £575,481. After providing
for depreciation and amortisation of
fixed assets (steady at £18,363), loan
interest (£3846), directors’ fees (£2575)
and other expenses, and allowing a steady
£59,000 for taxation, net profit was
almost unchanged at £100,330.
Allowing for the unchanged pref. divs.,
the showing on ord. capital was equal to
19.9 p.c., compared with tax-adjusted
rates of 20.4 p.c. (1958), 25.9 p.c. (1957),
and 24.3 p.c. (1956).
Brooklands has been unable, as yet, to
climb back to the level of its performance
in 1956 and 1957, from which it had
slipped last year. The dividend was then
clipped by 2| p.c. (from 15 p.c-. to an
admittedly very comfortable 124 p.c.).
However, the sales for the first quarter
of the current financial year are reported


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/,-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
Make a SAFE Investment with
MANUFACTURERS’ (N.S.W.) FINANCE
COMPANY
A Fixed Deposit will earn
10%
Your principal and interest are
INDEPENDENTLY
GUARANTEED
by an Indemnity Insurance Company.
The ratio of the Securities held by the Com-
pany in relation to depositors' funds is well in
excess of 150% as at 31/3/59.
MANUFACTURERS’ (N.S.W.) FINANCE
COMPANY
2nd floor, Northern House, 13/15 O'Connell Street,
Sydney. Telephone BW 2661 (10 lines)
MAIL THIS COUPON
MANUFACTURERS' (N.S.W.) FINANCE
COMPANY
Box 4790, G.P.0., Sydney
Please send me, without obligation, the Brochure and
Application Form.
NAME - .
ADDRESS
.MI9/Z3.
B. 12/8
to be in excess of the preced-
ing comparable period, and if
the trend continues, in the im-
proving business climate,
Brooklands may work its way
further up again, provided that
it succeeds in keeping costs
under control.
Reserves also benefited
by £1370 profit on sale of fixed
assets, by £lB9l tax over-
provision written-back, and
now stand at £531,860, after
deducting goodwill and other
intangibles totalling £187,038
at April 30, 1959.
During the year any expan-
sion was financed internally:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959.
Pref £25,000 £25,000
Ord 494,719 494,719
Reserves.. .. 512,759 547,760
Mortgage .. 71,250 68,750
Overdraft .. 104,783 110,761
Creditors, etc. .. 189,247 232,896
Staff fund .. 30,000 35,000
Tax provision .. 71,000 59,000
Final divs. .. 37,979 37,979
£1,536,737 £1,611,865
Freeholds . . 364,026 356,687
Leaseholds .. 12,733 12,253
Plant and fittings 129,550 138,806
Shares other cos. 4,600
Stocks .. 586,853 626,309
Debtors .. .. 426,110 ■ 455,674
Cash .. .. 1,565 1,636
Goodwill .. 15,900 15,900
£1,536,737 £1,611,865
There was a slight improve-
ment in liquidity, stocks going-
up by £39,446, and debtors by
£29,564, reflecting the larger
turnover. For the same period
creditors rose by £43,649.
There was a small increase of
£5978 in bank borrowings,
which now stand at £110,761.
Due to a consistent policy of
ploughing-back a substantial
proportion of the earnings, net
tangible assets backing works-
out at 11s. 6d. for each ss. ord.
Last week sellers asked
1 Is. 9d. for these on Melbourne
’Change. With a continuing
12£ p.c. dividend the yield is
5.4 p.c.
John A. Gilbert Holdings
/~\nce again, John A. Gilbert
Holdings, Ltd., has turned-
in a record profit. At £135,213
(up £6949 on the previous
term), after tax £79,685 (down
£776) and depreciation £36,661
(down £4642), the 1959 show-
ing is the highest yet won by
the co., and represents an
earning-rate on ord. capital—
after allowing for the pref.
div. of 25.9 p.c. compared
with 24.6 p.c. in ’5B and 26 p.c.
in ’57:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
—Dividends-^—Re-
Mch., Profit. Pref. Ord.—serves.*
6-8 p.c.
& & £> £
’55..100,345 4000 15 = 39,082 92,8.93
Share-issue expenses, £2171 90,722
Profit sale assets, £9322.. 100,044
’56..115,991 4000 15 = 56,426 155,609
Share premiums, £11,308.. 166,917
Share-issue exp., etc., £2194 164,723
’57..112,420 4000 15 = 62,556 210,587
Profit sale assets, £440 . . 211,027
’58.-128,264 4000 15 = 75,858 259,433
Profit sale assets, £lO7B . . 260,511
’59..135,213 4000 15 = 75,858 315,866
* Subject to intangibles, £101,351 at
31/3/’59.
For the fifth year running, the
div.-rate on ord shares was kept
at 15 p.c., accounting for
£75,858 of the profits. Pref.
shareholders —pref. capital is
£50,000 in £1 6 p.c. cumulative
(participating to 8 p.c.) shares
received £4OOO. Profits
remaining (£55,355) went to
reserves, lifting them to
£315,866.
The co’s. progress last year
was achieved despite higher
costs, and was mainly the
result of a turnover higher by
£577,903 at £5,065,336.
From its head-office in
William Street, Sydney, John
A. Gilbert Holdings, Ltd.,
administers to five subsidiaries.
Each is concerned with a
different aspect of the motor
industry, and although to some
extent their activities are com-
plementary, they are, in the
opinion of the directors, suffi-
ciently dissimilar to ensure that
adverse conditions affecting the
one will not seriously affect
the earnings of the group as a
whole.
The roots of the present
organisation extend back 34
years to the formation of Reo
Motors Pty. In 1948 this title
was dropped, and today’s prin-
cipal subsidiary, John A. Gil-
bert Pty., came into being.
Shortly afterwards this co. was
appointed one of four distri-
butors of the Holden in metro-
politan Sydney. The parent
co. came into existence in 1951.
Four years later it opened its
share-register to the public and
acquired official listing on
’Change.
Last term saw all subsidiaries
making substantial contribu-
tions to the group-profit. John
A. Gilbert Pty., together with
its northern suburbs counter-
part John A. Gilbert (North-
side) Pty., lifted sales of new
and used cars, trucks and
omnibuses from 3277 to 3978.
Profits rose, but were not pro-
portionate to the higher earn-
ings, the gross gain being
heavily slashed by keener com-
petition involving considerably
greater selling expense. Con-
tinuing at a steady level, sales
of replacement - parts and
accessories made a satisfactory
contribution. The two cos., in
addition to the valuable Holden
franchise, have distributing-
rights for Bedford omnibuses
and diesel-engines.
Bus Lines of Australia Pty.,
another member of the group,
and one also experiencing
higher costs, was able, too, to
lift its profits. Engaged in
omnibus operations in country
areas of N.S.W. it vividly
illustrates the efficacy of the
directors’ diversification policy.
Omnibus revenue fluctuates
with economic conditions,
tending to fall in periods of
prosperity, tending to rise when
the outlook is more pessimistic.
Thus when revenue from
motor-car sales is declining,
omnibus profits should rise.
The h.-p. offshoot, Credit
and Guarantee Pty., formed to
facilitate the financing of terms-
sales by the merchandising cos.,
wrote increased business, and,
with more settled conditions
prevailing in the h.-p. field, was
able to lift its profits. The other
subsidiary, Industrial Lessors
Pty., handled, if not a great
volume, a moderately reason-
able volume of vehicle-leasing
and made a presentable con-
tribution to the parent co.
Present prospects augur
another good year for John A.
Gilbert Holdings, Ltd. Holden
leadership remains un-
challenged, and G.M.-H. is


n
Over-subscriptions
still being accepted
Per annum 7 or 10 years
0
0
PER ANNUM
FIVE YEARS
0
0
PER ANNUM
TWO YEARS
7%
PER ANNUM
THREE YEARS
SlO/
2 /O
PER ANNUM
ONE YEAR
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF YEARLY
Free of exchange in capital cities
ISSUE AT PAR OF
£250,000 REGISTERED
DEPOSIT NOTES
CHEVRON
QUEENSLAND LIMITED
To raise funds for an extensive building programme
Chevron Queensland Limited launches this
£250,000 Registered Deposit Note Issue.
10% per annum means your money doubled in ten
years. Invest for maximum returns and security
with Chevron Queensland Limited.
Get full particulars from . . .
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
CORRIE & CO.
(Members of the
Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
SURFERS PARADISE.
WALTER P. HAM & CO.
(Members of the Stock
Exchange of Melbourne)
105 QUEEN ST.,
Phone MU6551. MELBOURNE
TRUSTEE FOR THE DEPOSIT NOTEHOLDERS:
QUEENSLAND UNITED INVESTMENTS LTD.,
. 400 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
THE PROSPECTUS FOR THIS ISSUE COMPLIES
FULLY WITH THE NEW VICTORIAN COMPANIES
ACT OF 1958.
OBTAIN A COPY OF THE PROSPECTUS
. . . from the Underwriting Brokers or any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange in Australia, or from any Branch of the Bankers
to the Issue:
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANK LTD.
COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
CHEVRON QUEENSLAND LIMITED
Cavill Avenue, Surfers Paradise, Queensland
Please send me a copy of the Prospectus of the Deposit
Note Issue.
Name
Address - -
CQ2/B
expected to release a new
model within the next few
months. The vehicle-market
continues to be healthy, but
nevertheless there is no
defined upward trend in new
registrations and competition
in the trade continues to in-
tensify. The automobile
industry stood to benefit
considerably if there
was any reduction in
sales - tax in the 1959-60
Budget.
Framed by a strong balance-
sheet, the financial structure of
the co. makes an attractive
picture. Reserves aFe more
than adequate. Profits easily
cover divs. with a good margin
for reserves. Fixed assets are
fully financed by capital and
working funds are considerable.
The ratio of current assets to
current liabilities stands at 1.8
to 1:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959.
Pref. capital .. £50,000 £50,000
Ord. capital ~ 505,719 505,719
Reserves .. 259,433 315,866
Mortgages, etc... 49,152 77,302
Overdraft .. 155,157 213,215
Creditors .. 141,874 196,887
Deposits -.. 21,091 10,687
Tax provision .. 134,036 89,123
Final div. .. 39,929 39,929
£1,356,391 £1,498,728
Freeholds, etc.. . 208,044 245,884
Plant . . .. 159,560 128,527
Stock . . . . 313,001 353,859
H.-p. contracts.. 397,889 509,553
Debtors . . 171,020 152,691
Cash, etc. .. 5,526 6,363
Goodwill, etc. .. 101,351 101,851
£1,356,391 £1,498,728
The book-value of freehold
property has risen over the year
by £37,840 to £245,884. Re-
building at Rushcutters Bay is
nearly finished, and a new
building at Chapel Rd., Banks-
town, is well on the way. The
completion of these projects
will greatly facilitate improved
sales and servicing of motor-
vehicles. The extra space pro-
vided will enable the merchand-
ising co. to handle more than
5000 new and used vehicles
each year. Plant, including
motor-omnibuses, was lower at
£128,527 (down £31,033), and
reflected the disposal of units
no longer required by the co.
Loans on mortgage rose to
£77,302 (up £28,150), but
working-capital was stronger at
£472,625 (up £77,276).
Amounts owing under h.-p.
contracts, less income yet to
mature (£74,832), rose to
£509,553 (up £111,664). Stock
on hand increased by £40,858
to £353,859.
Bank accommodation and
creditors were relied upon to a
greater extent, reaching
£213,215 (up £58,058) and
£196,887 (up £55,013) respec-
tively. Provision for taxation
was lower at £89,123 (down
£44,913).
John A. Gilbert Holdings,
Ltd. aspires to a position where
50 p.c. at least of the annual
net profit will be earned by the
non-merchandising subsidiaries.
It would perhaps be rathet
optimistic to expect another
rise in profits this current term,
yet the present level of income
is almost definitely assured and
this being the case a rise in the
div.-rate would not strain the
co.’s resources.
Last week the ss. ords. were
sold on the Sydney ’Change for
10s. Buyers picking the shares
up at this price would obtain
a yield of 7.5 p.c. assuming a
continuance of the 15 p.c. div.
The prefs. are not listed.
Net tangible assets-cover for
the ss. ords is 7s. 2d. and for
the £1 prefs. is £l5 7s. lOd.


■mgr
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
, Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Home-brew and Other Brews
Wellington, August 4, 1959.
■JVTew Zealand brewing-
companies are worried.
Since the doubling of
excise-duty a year ago beer-
consumption has fallen-off
steeply—that is, consumption
of commercially produced
beer.
The trade estimates that
between 6,000,000 and
9,000,000 gallons of home-
brew were made in the last
12 months, and it looks as if
the figure will be higher this
year.
An Auckland firm which
supplies brewing-materials is
holding home-brew classes
each Saturday morning.
It describes the demand for
tuition as “fantastic.” Each
week 50 to 60 new, thirsty
scholars, some of them women,
attend.
To meet this competition,
brewers have been considering
the production and marketing
of dry wort, and some experi-
ments have actually been
carried out.
The dry wort is simply
mixed with water, bottled and
left for a few days. The
result, it is claimed, is drink-
able beer.
Under the law, as it stands
at present, it appears that no
excise-duty would be payable
on the dry wort. No doubt,
however, the Government
would soon plug that hole.
Another interesting develop-
ment has been an apparent
increase in the consumption of
“near-beers.”
These fermented drinks,
which must not contain more
than 3 oer cent, of proof spirit
against between 6 and 7 per
cent, for ordinary beers, are
free of duty, and can be sold
in dairies and milk-bars.
Complaints have been made
that young children are buy-
ing them. It is pointed-out
that two pints contain approxi-
mately as much alcohol as
one pint of real beer.
The Minister of Health has
instituted inquiries.
N.Z. Breweries, Ltd.
Consolidated accounts of
N.Z. Breweries, Ltd., for the
year to March 31, 1959,
showed net profit £23,703 up
at £356,966.
This was after depreciation,
£9324 up at £709,472, and tax,
£9237 down at £658,819.
N.Z. company-tax is 10s. in
the £, so that profit, as seen by
the Commissioner of Inland
Revenue, was obviously much
greater than appears in the
company’s accounts.
The directors said that they
had provided for depreciation
in excess of the amount allow-
able as a deduction for tax
purposes, but considered the
amount no more than pru-
dent.
In addition to the trading
profit, overprovided tax of
£4215, against £72,684 the
previous year, was written-
back, bringing total net income
of the group to £361,181, a
decrease of £44,766.
Of this amount £348,361
(£396,898 the previous year)
was attributable to the parent
company and £12,820 (£3771)
to outside interests.
Dividend reduced from 84
p.c. to 74 p.c. on capital
increased by a one-for-two
scrip-issue took £259,199.
Capital is now £3,486,023,
and shareholders’ funds
amount to £6,358,556, after
deduction of the minority
interest of £167,551. Reserves
include capital reserves of
£894,783.
During the year current
assets fell from 172 per cent,
to 112 per cent, of current
liabilities.
The fall was attributed by
the chairman, Sir William
Perry, to the steep increase in
excise-duty which is prepaid
by the company some weeks
before beer is sold.
The company had also had
to carry much larger accounts
owing by hotel-keepers, he
said. In many cases these had
had to be left as advances for
repayment over a long period.
It would be a considerable
time before many hotels re-
covered from the setback they
had received.
Excise-duty and sales tax
on beer per gallon has risen
as follows:
1915, 3d.; 1920, s|d.; 1925,
114 d.; 1930, Is.; 1935, Is. lid.;
1940, 2s. 4d.; 1945, 3s. lid.;
1950, 4s. id.; 1948, 7s. 7d.
The Government impost of
7s. 7d. a gallon represents
nearly 80 per cent, of the price
of draught-beer to hotels.
The net profit to the com-
pany on the sale of a gallon
of beer, after providing for
materials, wages, overhead,
depreciation and taxation, is
1.65 d., Sir William said.
The Government derives
7s. 7d., or over 55 times as
much. In other words, the
Government’s return on a
glass of beer is just over 4|d.,
while the net return to the
company is one-twelfth of a
penny.
Dominion Breweries, Ltd,
Dominion Breweries is
making a one-for-four scrip-
issue by capitalising £320,000
of share-premium reserves.
The issue had been expected
for a long time. The com-
pany’s chairman indicated a
year ago that it was on the
way.
But shareholders cannot
complain about the delay. The
company is, in effect, making
the issue retrospective. It is
adding a 24 per cent, bonus to
its 10 per cent, dividend. This
means that shareholders will
receive the same amount as
they would have received if
the scrip-issue had been made
a year ago and the dividend
this year had been steady at
10 per cent.
Dominion Breweries’ profit
for the year to March 31
showed the effect of the drop
in beer-consumption resulting
from the doubling of beer-
duty. It declined by £20,902
to £220,004. Of the profit,
£29,230 is said to be non-
recurrent.
The result was reached after
provision of £7464 less for de-
preciation at £159,884 and
£27,136 less for tax at £254,059.
Ordinary and preference
dividends of 10 per cent, take
£127,415, and the 24 per cent,
bonus - dividend requires
£32,000, a total of £159,415,
leaving a retained surplus of
£60,589, or 27.5 per cent, of
the net profit.
The consolidated balance-
sheet at March 31 shows capi-
tal at £1,280,000, including
£40,000 preference; share-
holders’ funds, £2,687,426,
including £389,645 capital
reserves.
The coming scrip-issue will
increase ordinary capital by
£320,000 and reduce reserves
correspondingly.
Whakatane Board Mills
Consolidated net profit of
Whakatane Board Mills, Ltd.,
for the year to June 30, 1959,
was £202,460, against £156,016
the previous year, an increase
of nearly 30 per cent.
Profit is reached after provi-
sion of £331,255 (£314,625) for
depreciation, £45,000 (£45,000)
for obsolescence and £237,587
(£182,779) for tax.
The co. is increasing its
ordinary dividend from 7 p.c.
to 8 p.c.
Balance-of-paymenfs
During the year ended June
30, 1959, there was a surplus
of £4l million in N.Z.’s over-
seas exchange transactions,
including £21,800,000 of net
official overseas borrowing.
This surplus compares with
a deficit of £59,700,000, includ-
ing £14,500,000 of net official
overseas borrowing for the
year ended June, 1958.
The year’s transactions on a
current and capital-account
basis show a surplus on the
current account of £12,800,000
during the year ended June,
1959, compared with a deficit
of £77,100,000 the previous
year.


Aid and comfort
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
When Charlie Reimann
phoned me just as the
exchange was about
to close for the night,
I knew immediately it was for
no ordinary purpose. Something
in the tone of his voice made
me visualise him hesitating,
changing his mind, walking up
and down past his phone-table,
his strong, rugged farmer’s
face comic with indecision.
He dithered with the weather
and the wool-market for a
while.
“I say,” he suddenly Surst
out, as if he detected the
impatient exchange-girl wait-
ing for him to get down to
business, “what about coming
with me to Wagga tomorrow?”
“Wagga! Tomorrow!” I
had to think a while ; I wasn’t
so close a friend of Charlie’s
that I went on day-long excur-
sions with him at a moment’s
notice.
“Didn’t you hear? My
mother died. It’s her funeral.”
“Oh. I’m very sorry to hear
it, Charlie. Very sorry indeed.
Such a wonderful old
lady ”
“Listen thanks but I
didn’t ring-up for that. The
boys are flat-out with the sow-
ing and my wife’s laid-up. I
don’t want to go alone.”
He sounded desolate.
“All right,” I said.
I wasn’t so pleased about it,
though. In the country, where
you’ve known everybody for
generations, going to funerals
can become almost a full-time
occupation.
"Out next morning he looked,
-■-* for the capable and suc-
cessful man he was, so patheti-
cally pleased, that I was glad
I’d come. As soon as we’d
got onto the bitumen he said:
“It’ll be just like it was when
the Dad died. All that hand-
shaking and sympathy. I can’t
stand it. They don’t know
what to say to me, and I don’t
know what to say to them. It’s
hell! ”
“They mean well.” >
“Yair, but I wish- they
wouldn’t do it.” j
There didn’t seem much I
could do for a man who/felt
like that. We were silent for
quite a while. Charlie kept
increasing his speed until we
got to the first town. Then he
pulled up abruptly at the first
hotel.
“Gotta have a drink,” he
said. “Come on.”
He had two double whiskies
in quick time. I had a beer,
because it was getting abomin-
ably hot.
“Ha, that’s better,” he said.
“I feel I can face ’em now.
Let’s go.”
His hawk-nosed face looked
less tense, though he still had
his worried frown as he
weaved through the traffic and
got onto the highway again.
“Don’t know why they have
funerals,” he complained.
“When a bloke’s dead that’s
the end of him. Where’s the
sense in hundreds of people
making all this fuss? As bad
as getting married.”
“They like to show their
sympathy.”
“That’s just what I can’t
stand ; sympathy.”
“It’s because you’re upset.
You’re bound to be upset
when your mother dies.”
“Upset!” He gave me so
meaningful a look, and for so
long, I was afraid he’d run
the car over the parallel rail-
way embankment. “I’m not
upset. I’m relieved. God!
The time that woman gave
me!”
I’d known his mother and
the rest of the family before
they’d moved to Wagga. A
nicer, kinder, more reputable
woman you’d never imagine.
“You’re upset,” I told him
again.
He gave me another of his
looks.
“Ever since the old man
died I’ve had her on my back.
Her and the rest of the
family.”
“Everyone thought she was
a wonderful old lady.”
“Of course they did! Why
shouldn’t they? She never
refused anybody anything;
least of all the rest of the
family! ”
TTe became quite vehement.
AA “i was executor and
manager of the old man’s
estate. She had a life-interest
in it. Hell, was I flat-out to
see there was something left
of it! ‘l’ll write a cheque.’
That was her answer to every
problem.”
“But she wasn’t the extrava-
gant kind. I remember her ;
a typical cautious, frugal, old-
country-family type.”
“Oh, yes. She was careful,
all right. The way she saved
empty paper - bags, plastic
wrapping, peanut-butter jars
and bottle-tops—yair, she was
saving enough that way. But
when it came to facing any
trouble it was a different
matter: Get a lawyer ; write
a cheque ; go to bed until the
trouble was over. No wonder
all the young ones turned out
delinquents.”
“Delinquents! But they all
got on so well! Those girls!
What style and dash they had.
Makes me excited to remem-
ber them. And what about
the doctor? You wouldn’t call
him a delinquent, with his
reputation. The girls, too:
Sylvia, the ballerina; she’s
famous. And what was the
other one’s name? Oh, yes,
Margie: didn’t she marry a
big Sydney businessman?”
“Ha,” Charlie said sar-
donically ; “it looks all right
from the outside. But if a
bloke could let-out family
secrets on his way to his
mother’s funeral, I’d make
you blush, my oath I could.”
/’T'lancing at me, he must
have seen my lack of con-
viction.
“Look here. How do you
think a girl gets ahead so fast
in a hard profession like
ballet as Sylvia did?”
“Hard work and talent, I’d
say: Sylvia just made up her
mind to be a success.”
“Yair, she did that. She’d
do anything for it; anything
at all to please the men who
could help her up.”
“Ah, now ; now, Charlie! ”
“What else could you
expect! The way they were
brought up! Always able to
do what they liked and to run
home to mother with their
troubles. And mother’s
cheque-book to see them out
of it.”
“But Margie. She was
clever. She used her head.
The way she rose from a
typist to the boss’s partner —
and then married him.”
“Yair. If you say it quick
enough it sounds all right,
doesn’t it? Without stopping
to look at anything too close.
But what was this big business-
man when she first got to
know him? A small-time
racketeer. Margie learnt all
her business ethics from him.
If an activity shows a possible
loss, it’s bad; if it shows a
big profit, it’s good. Nothing
else mattered.
“Then the war came and
they had their big opportunity.
Anything rationed, or in short
supply—they had tons of it.
Whisky, petrol, women’s fancy


clothes, ration-coupons. They
only slipped once. Mother’s
cheques kept them out of jail.
They made enough to get into
more-or-less respectable busi-
ness for the post-war boom.
Now they’re big shots. But I
didn’t tell you about his wife ;
his first wife. She fell over-
board from his yacht when
only the three of them were
on it —and they couldn’t
manage to save her, on a calm,
sunny day.”
“You’re upset,” I said,
“you’ve lost your grip. I
don’t believe a word of it.
Anyhow, there’s still Ralph.
You can’t say anything against
him. He’s the B.M.A.’s fair-
haired boy.”
“Ha, Ralph,” said Charlie,
giving the accelerator a savage
thrust; “he was a real de-
linquent right from his school
days. Mother’s darling be-
cause he was the youngest,
and a boy. Always had every-
thing he wanted; with the
natural result! So clever she
had to make him a doctor.
Ha, if I told you about the
scrapes he got into in his
student days; and all the
cheques it took to get him
out of them ; all the examina-
tions he had to repeat. All
the money l had to put in
when he’d milked his mother
dry. Now, when he’s got pots
of money, does it ever occur
to him to pay anything back
to her or me? Not on your
life. Too busy being a social
light in Sydney’s social life. It
must be illegal operations for
the upper crust. He couldn’t
make all the money he spends
honestly.”
We had now reached the
outskirts of Wagga, and as
Charlie was obliged to slow
down for the traffic, his tension
returned.
“I’ll have to stop,” he said
as we got to the first hotel. “I
can’t face the weeping family
the way I feel.”
He repeated his quick
whiskies and bought a bottle
to take in the car.
“Stick close to me, Max. I'll
need a bodyguard when I get
among those relations of
mine.”
r T''HE two girls were there as
soon as we rang the bell
at the mother’s door. They
pulled Charlie inside and
wound their arms around him.
“You’re all we’ve got left
now, Charlie,” Maggie said
pathetically.
They still had a lot of style
and charm. I could easily
have endured changing places
with Charlie.
“Poor old mother.” Sylvia
disengaged Charlie momen-
tarily and took up a ballet-
attitude of grief that was really
heartrending. “Gone to her
rest at last.”
“Let’s call her ‘Mum’ like
we used to,” Margie sobbed ;
“dear old Mum. She’ll be all
right where she’s gone to. She
was always so good. The way
she trusted in God when
troubles came; it was won-
derful.”
“She had her troubles, too.
Dear Mummy.”
Charlie gave me a telling
glance. The girls didn’t fail
to notice. They wept on his
shoulder until he put his arms
round them.
Ralph came in with Ed,
Margie’s husband. Ralph had
a jaded, worried, sorrowful
face. Ed looked like a
reformed racketeer with a
wife-murder on his conscience.
His face made everything
Charlie had told me convinc-
ing. They gave Charlie
sorrowing, inarticulate hand-
clasps: time for me to go into
action and say something for
Charlie’s sake.
Soon he had his whisky-
bottle out, with the sincere, if
subdued, approval of all.
Other relations began to
arrive and I lost close touch
with Charlie until I joined him
in his car for the procession
through the streets. I noticed
he was bungling his gear-
changes, but he seemed beauti-
fully relaxed at last, smiling
at the spectators and smoking
a cigarette.
At the cemetery the four
chief mourners stood in
exemplary sorrow beside the
grave, while I was stuck with
the unspeakable Ed on the
outskirts. Ed was fanning
himself with his handkerchief,
hi|s face pitifully distressed.
The thing that was worrying
him was the mother dying at
this time of the year; drag-
ging him away from his Palm
Beach house and exposing
him to a Wagga heat-wave.
It made me very uncom-
fortable, having to listen to
his complaints ; any moment,
I was afraid, he’d say some-
thing revealing which would
make me an accessory-after-
the-fact to his first wife’s
murder.
The minister was unre-
strained in his praises of the
wonderful Christian the old
lady had been. And what a
remarkable mother, for having
prepared her children for the
highly-respected places they
now occupied in the world. At
this stage Charlie looked up,
and, catching my eye, he gave
me a wink. Several people
turned round and saw me there,
with Ed unburdening his suffer-
ings on 'me. They seemed to
blame me for disturbing the
decorum.
After, the ceremony a great
number of sympathisers filed
past the mourners, shaking
their hands. I went and stood
near Charlie to support him
and to get away from Ed.
Charlie and Ralph were weep-
ing nearly as much as the girls
before it was over.
YX/Hen all the crowd had
gone the four of them
seemed welded together with
grief.
“Let’s go back to Mother’s
for a while,” Margie suggested.
At the door Sylvia put her
hand against my chest, a
strong, springy arm support-
ing it.
“You won’t want to see us
all weeping on each others’
shoulders, Max. You go and
do some business down the
town ; take Ed for a drink;
get some petrol in Charlie’s
car; don’t be in a hurry to
come back.”
There was no resisting her
charm, or her arm. I gave
them nearly an hour; more
than that of Ed’s company
would have killed me . . ,
'T'hey brought Charlie out, a
sister on each arm with
her cheek pressed against his
shoulder, Ralph fussing over
him and carrying his hat as if
it were a halo.
On the way home I drove
Charlie’s car. He sat slumped
and inert in his corner for
about ten miles; then he
stirred himself to a mourn-
fully-voiced statement:
“Good old Mum,” he said;
“she was a wonder, all right.
You heard what the parson
said? He was right. Dead
right. And all those people—-
‘The most wonderful mother
and the most wonderful citizen
they’d ever known.’ ”
“That’s what I said about
her on the way down,” I
reminded him. Then I added,
to keep things straight: “But
I didn’t think much of Ed.”
Charlie stirred himself
noticeably.
“Oh, Ed’s all right,” he said,
“just a typical city slicker;
no better, no worse. But
Ralph and the girls—they’re
three of the best.”
That time I said nothing.
“They need me, though,”
he said with a significant, deep
satisfaction ; “they need their
Big Brother now. No Mother
to guide them any more.”
He mused in an apparently
happy state while we drove
down one long hill and up the
next.
“Dear old Sylvia. Not find-
ing it so easy to get the top
jobs any more.”
He gave a sigh ; rather as
his mother used to.
“Margie’s having some sort
of trouble with Ed. And young
Ralph’s got to square some-
one that’s going to be expen-
sive. Too bad all the estate
money will be gone when
Mum’s affairs are wound-up.”
He didn’t seem to regard
this as so calamitous as he
did on the way down.
“All they’ve got now is me.”
“I’m glad you’re all friends
again.”
He stared at me.
“We’ve always been. What
made you think we weren’t?”
“Oh, just something you
said on the way down.”
“What did I say? I don't
remember. I must have been
upset.”
“Yes, that’s it,” I agreed.
“You were upset.”
WINDY HILL
Dear, let us remember always this we hold now :
such earth-fresh grass and exclamations of trees,
the alive and sudden wind’s hyperboles,
and most, from this hilltop, this dazzling, laughing view.
This is, this once, the summit of place—and how
the world climbs here, we could touch these clouds ! (Your
eyes
are blue and more shining true than any skies!)
See ! This windy hill is today and newer than new
and though all things arc once only, time is ease
and recurring springs here, where the wind springs the grass
and parrots and flowers flash from the earth, where we pass
this rich day exploring our love’s lovely territories.
Yes, remember this hill, our summit, our witness and
friend,
though our signature here be only the sound of the wind.
QUEENSLAND.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for—.months’ subscription to *‘The Bulletin, *’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS *.
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year— £l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
NX Currency (Remit to Box 965. Wellington, NX):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These price* include postage and apply whether ths sub-
scription is paid direct to ’‘The Bulletin” or aoy newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
why so many Chinamen went
racing.
A knockabout racecourse
acquaintance once told me he
liked going to the races be-
cause he found a racecourse a
wonderful equaliser. He found
characters in Savile Row suits
listening to his opinions. It
pleased him immensely. In-
flated his ego, if it did deflate
his purse.
Certainly the same form-
guides will find their way each
week into company directors’
offices and downtown wine-
kicks. Like having a big whip
delivered each week with
which to thrash yourself.
You rip off great hunks of
skin and wait for someone to
rub salt into the wounds.
Usually a landlady, a wife or
a lady-friend does that small
thing for you.
I am single and have no
worries about facing the missus
after a bad day at the races.
But the thrashing the book-
makers give me does not rate
with the one my girl gives me
when I give her that sorrowful
look on a Saturday night.
She does not pull any
punches. And she will not
listen to reason. It is impos-
sible trying to tell her what a
hell of a night we would have
had if that kid on Blow Joe
had not tried to change hands-
with the whip in the straight.
Anyway, I don’t like tangling
with the opposite sex in
matters relating to the punt.
If I tip a good thing to a fair
lady I am trying to impress,
you can bet your socks it will
stand on its head at the barrier
or get knocked on its tail at
the turn.
Not so long back I talked
a young charmer out of back-
“I never can remember —which is a stalactite and
which is a stalagmite !”
ing a horse at Randwick. She
had just returned from Lon-
don, where she sang in a night-
club. Used to sing a number
called “Ne Touche Pas le
Grisbi,” which, roughly trans-
lated, means “Hands off the
dough!”
There was a horse in this
race called Grisbi. “Can it
win?” she asked. Wise as an
owl I said, “Not if it started
now, dear.” This was a
quarter of an hour before the
race. You don’t want to know
the result. Grisbi rolled-in at
any old price.
It makes you wonder if
there is a way you can win at
this game. Perhaps the pro-
fessor has something.
Halve your bets and last
twice as long, they say. When
you see big punters with “in-
side information” going broke,
you wonder. One big-betting
stable has become notorious
in recent years for the number
of its followers it has sent
broke. These are men putting
big money on stable tips, bet-
ting the trainer or source of
information the odds to a
certain amount.
The trainer in question gets
very emphatic about the win-
ning chances of a good per-
centage of the various horses
he saddles-up. They don’t all
win, and when they do their
price is often very short. But
when one group of punters
falls away, another is there to
take its place—all of them
craving to lose. Some of them
are very good actors. The
way they complain you would
swear they were really want-
ing to win in the first place.
Yet I know punters who
win. Good judges; men who
know and watch horses
closely; watch and understand
the finer points of horses’
trackwork; level-headed men
not easily flustered by the
inevitable “losing sequence.”
I know men who make a
living of “laying” favorites;
that is, betting against them
when they think they cannot
win. One such man keeps a
book detailing the separate
pieces of gear each horse
wears. He studies horses in
the saddling-enclosure before a
race, looking for any signifi-
cant change in gear ; a tell-tale
change in a horse’s condition
since the last time it raced.
It is difficult to rate these
men with the “craving to
lose” theory. There are easier
methods of self-punishment.
Then I look down some-
times from the stand on the
milling throng of punters be-
low ; I listen to the discussions
on chances on race-trains ; the
systems and ridiculous hunches
by which people back horses.
I think of trainers who have
been marvellous men with
horses and are now broke
through reckless gambling.
It would do the professor’s
heart good to hear me in such
a mood. I imagine the pro-
fessor as old and cranky, with
a bank-account still going
from the one his mother began
for him in kindergarten. I
imagine he still has the first
dollar he ever earned.
The professor says the
gambling-habit usually begins
in childhood incentive pay-
ments in school can stir the
gambler’s instinct, he says.
I know now that I went
wrong accepting that blue rib-
bon for “Neatest Writer of
the Week” in 2nd-class. Now
I can only hope to become a
good enough judge to back a
sufficient number of winners
to keep me out of trouble.
As they say in the punting
fraternity, I’ll have to “punt
high and follow on”!


QANT AS introduces
JEIFIICHI
SVIHVO
vitr
&
with BOEING 707 Jetliners
SVINV 0
AUSTRALIA'S ROUND-THE-WORLD AIRLINE
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. (Inc. in Qld.) in association with 8.0.A.C., TEAL & S.A.A. Q 29.63.69
crescendo. Reverberations of
further falling bombs follow
in quick succession. Then
silence ... a silence which
persists, a silence which brings
a gleam of triumph into the
eyes of the coast-watching
party.
'T'he framework of a coast-
watching organisation in
New Guinea and the Solomons
was established by the Direc-
tor of Naval Intelligence some
15 years before the outbreak
of World War 11. It served
a useful purpose, principally
in reporting the movements of
Japanese sampans fishing for
trochus-shell in those waters ;
but it was run very much on
the cheap.
In war-time, financial con-
siderations go by the board, and
that energetic and inspired
officer the war-time Director
of Naval Intelligence Com-
mander R. B. M. Long, 0.8. E.,
R.A.N., had no difficulty in
getting the money for the large
number of additional tele-
radios required for expansion
of the coast-watching organisa-
tion.
He was quick to realise that
the officer best equipped to
control the field-operations of
the coast-watchers was Lieu-
tenant-Commander Eric Feldt,
a former officer of the R.A.N.
who had later joined the field-
staff of the Papua-New Guinea
Administration. Feldt, later to
become the author of that
admirable book The Coast
Watchers, knew the terrain,
and, even more important, he
knew his men.
It remained to be seen how
the coast - watchers would
acquit themselves when the
heat was really on. An indi-
cation was not long in coming.
Warning of the very sfirst
Japanese onslaught in the
South-west Pacific was given
by coast-watcher Con Page,
stationed on Simberi Island.
The onslaught took the form
of an air-attack on Rabaul
and the nearby R.A.A.F.
drome at Vunakanau. It was
launched from Truk, in the
Caroline Islands, and Simberi
Island was -in the direct line
of flight. Page’s warning
greatly reduced casualties. ,
T>efore long not only Jap
aircraft but Jap war vessels
began to appear. This was the
prelude to Japan’s first major
operation in the South-west
Pacific —the invasion of Rabaul.
Sighting-reports were received
from two coast-watchers, Kyle
and Benham, stationed on New
Ireland.
Later these reports ceased,
for the Japs had landed at
Kavieng, the administrative
centre of New Ireland. They
eventually captured both Kyle
and Benham and executed
them.
A similar fate befell Con
Page, of Simberi. He had
been instructed to leave the
island, as, owing to its small
size, his chances of conceal-
ing himself in the event of a
Japanese landing were remote.
But he refused the oppor-
tunity to escape, considering
that he could continue to trans-
mit vital intelligence.
Such was the spirit shown
by the coast-watchers right
from the outbreak of war. The
value of the example set by
Con Page cannot be over-
stated.
At Rabaul the Japanese in-
vading force outnumbered the
local garrison by more than 20
to 1, and after a more-or-less
token resistance the garrison
had to take to the jungle. For
many weeks no communica-
tion was received .from these
dispersed troops, but it was
of prime importance to get a
picture of the general scene
and of the steps taken by the
Japs to defend Rabaul.
At this stage Lieutenant-
Commander Malcolm Wright,
a young naval officer who had
been a patrol-officer in the
Papua-New Guinea Adminis-
tration, volunteered to be
transported from Brisbane in
a U.S. submarine to Adler
Bay, on the south-east coast
of New Britain and not far
from Rabaul. From there he
made a landing in a rubber
boat, his objective being a
certain native village, the
luluai of which he had come
to know well in his patrolling
days.
The luluai told Wright that
Jap patrols passed daily
through the village, but under-
took to protect him. During
the week he remained there
Wright, by interrogating local
natives who had contact with
Rabaul, was able to obtain
intelligence of very consider-
able value. Later he made his
way back to the coast and was
safely picked-up by the sub-
marine.
'T'he Coral Sea Battle pre-
A dated this incident by
some weeks. The immediate
objectives of the Japanese were
the occupation of Port
Moresby and Tulagi, and it
was a coast-watching report
that indicated something im-
portant was brewing.
The report was transmitted
by Major Donald Kennedy, a
New Zealander who had been
serving as a district-officer in
(Continued on page 44)


Is Enough (or Anything) Being Done?
Problems of Civil Defence
Although scarcely a day passes
without a mention in the press
or on the radio of H-bombs or
nuclear war, with emphasis on the
destruction and devastation that a third
World War would bring, there has been
surprisingly little apparent attempt to
tell the people what to do in the event
of an atomic attack on this country.
No doubt members of the police-forces,
fire-brigades and the armed services have
been lectured and key personnel in-
structed in their roles in such an emer-
gency, but the general public is almost
completely ignorant on the subject of
civil-defence.
There are, of course, those who hold
that so-called civil-defence is a waste
of time and money. At one extreme are
those who have such a horrific conception
of the potentialities of the new weapons
that they are quite prepared to believe
that an H-bomb dropped on Alice
Springs would atomise the entire con-
tinent. At the other are those who have
convinced themselves that Australia
would be bypassed in a nuclear war, the
enemy reserving his H-bombs for more
important targets. It would be com-
forting to believe this, but the disturbing
thought insists on cropping-up that per-
haps, while observing this general rule,
he might launch one or two bombs at
Sydney or Melbourne, Newcastle or Port
Kembla, just for the hell of it.
Tt is quite true that in the event of
an H-bomb targeting on Sydney
G.P.O. a knowledge of civil-defence pro-
cedure would be quite useless to anyone
who happened to be within a few miles
of the point of impact; in the same
instant any knowledge they possessed
of French, fine embroidery, higher
mathematics or rough carpentry would
also cease to have any meaning or any
existence. The radius of this circle of
presumed total destruction seems to vary
with the taste or fancy of the expert;
it merges into a penumbra of partial
destruction within which there must
surely be scope for those trained in
civil-defence. Outside it, there may be
even more, for in nuclear war civil-
defence means not so much civil-defence
against atomic attacks as civil-survival
after atomic attacks.
Obvious problems are the treatment of
vast numbers of atomic casualties and
the housing of those whose homes have
been destroyed. Not so obvious, but
just as inevitable, are the problems of
maintaining an ordered society which
has lost its main sources of electric
power, probably had its water-supply
contaminated and almost certainly had
the rest of its essential services dislocated
at a time when it is called on to accept
and care for large numbers of refugees
from contaminated areas.
'T'he Federal Government set-up a
civil-defence directorate in 1954 and
established a civil-defence school at Mt.
Macedon, in Victoria. Last year’s Budget
provided £300,000 for expenditure on
civil-defence during the financial year
which ended on June 30. No official
statement seems to have been issued to
give details of this expenditure, so there
is no way of finding-out what soFt of
civil-defence we are getting for our
money.
Not only is this information not avail-
able to the public ; it is also refused
to the N.S.W. Civil Defence Department,
with which, one would have thought, the
closest possible liaison would be main-
tained. Major-General Ivan Dougherty,
N.S.W. Director of Civil Defence, com-
plained recently that his approaches to
the Commonwealth authorities for a
co-ordinated policy on this matter had
been fruitless and that the Common-
wealth director, Brigadier Wardell, was
mainly responsible for a “policy of
obstruction.”
It is four years since the N.S.W.
Government appointed General
Dougherty Director of Civil Defence.
The principles on which he was asked to
base his organisation were that existing
facilities were to be used as much as
possible, departments and public utilities
retaining in time of war the functions
they would normally carry-out in peace-
time. Responsibility was to be shared
by each level of government and each
individual was to be responsible for his
own self-preservation.
This last principle seems to smack
rather of “devil take the hindmost,” but
General Dougherty explains that educa-
tion of the individual in the measures
he can take personally to protect himself,
his family and his property is by far the
most important part of his “Eight-point
Plan.”
The more individuals who by their own
efforts are able to survive, the more people
there will be to render aid collectively where
mutual support is possible.
Mutual-aid, which is essential to the
plan, will depend on the organisa-
tions within each municipality and shire ;
these are being developed as teams com-
posed of warden-sections, rescue-sections,
signal-sections, medical- and health-
sections and so on. In addition to this
decentralisation based on local-govern-
ment areas, the plan also provides for
“mobile columns” formed in country
centres such as Lithgow and Gouiburn,
“or made-up of contributions in the form
of rescue-parties, ambulance-parties, and
so on, from more scattered country
shires or smaller country municipalities.”
Mobile columns would also be formed
from within the more likely target-areas.
The task of these columns (where prac-
ticable, i.e., when some warning of
disaster is possible) would be to concen-
trate at some point remote from the
likely target so as to be able “to move
back to their own areas or to some other
stricken place, to render succour and
assistance following an attack.”
T-'he plan includes consideration of
evacuation, both of non-essential
persons from likely target-areas at times
of international tension and of survivors
from attacked areas. Preventive and
preparatory measures include the provi-
sion of shelters, dispersal of industry and
utilities, future design of buildings, safe-
guarding of water-supply, stockpiling of
food, medical supplies and essential
equipment.
It is recognised that the resources of
the police-forces in time of major
disaster would be strained beyond prac-
ticable limits and that augmentation of
their number by auxiliary police would
be essential; this applies also to the
firefighting service. Of the medical plan,
which he rates as of primary importance,
General Dougherty says it is a complex
problem on which a vast amount of work
has still to be done. When it is realised
that an H-bomb on Sydney G.P.O. would
mean the elimination of most of Sydney’s
hospitals and most of its doctors and
nurses, the magnitude of this task be-
comes apparent.
What has been done towards imple-
menting the Eight-point Plan? The
N.S.W. Civil Defence Organisation,
except for a small headquarters staff
under the Director (who has direct access
to the Minister), acts entirely in a
voluntary and honorary capacity. Of the
227 local-governing bodies in the State,
210 have appointed local controllers.
“Some of these controllers,” says
Dougherty, “have progressed a long way
with the development of their organisa-
tions, while others have not gone so
far. Overall, the progress has been most
satisfying.”
As far as the desirable principle of
educating the individual is concerned
there seems to be a long way to go, but
Dougherty’s criticism of Federal inac-
tivity is that his State organisation has
reached a stage where its key personnel
have been largely established, but lack
equipment. Feeling that civil - defence
should be organised on a national scale
he looks to the Commonwealth for some
directive that will enable N.S.W. to
tie-in with other States in the event of
national emergency. So far, apparently,
no such directive is forthcoming. General
Dougherty blames Brigadier Wardell.
Brigadier Wardell says the matter is a
political one. Whether it is political or
administrative it seems to call for a
definite statement by the Federal Govern-
ment.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
( Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Spring Hopes
Sydney’s early spring racing
begins next Saturday with the
first weight-for-age race of the
1959-60 term, the £1750 Canter-
bury Stakes, run over six
furlongs. Most of the best
sprinters were nominated and
there’s sure to be enough of
them left to make a real race
of it. Last spring the meeting
had to be abandoned because
of rain, but perhaps Sydney’s
had its issue this time.
The Canterbury Stakes six
is usually got over in round
about 1.12, but a few winners
have bettered that time. In
1940 New Zealander Beau-
livre, ridden by Darby Munro/
ran it in I.IIL the best to
date. Darb, incidentally, won
this race six times, his last
success being on Shannon in
1947. Just-retired Bill Cook
ran him close with five wins.
$ * *
Two-year-olds are getting
ready for the first Randwick
events for their age-group in
October, and, as usual, barrier-
trials with colors up will be
staged at Randwick and Rose-
bery next month. For the
Randwick trials entries won’t
close until August 31, and the
A.J.C. should stop the prac-
tice of allowing owners and
trainers to start unnamed two-
year-olds in these trials.
Breeding-details are always
furnished, as well as names of
owners and trainers, but the
main requirement for the on-
lookers is the name of the
youngster. The public pay a
fee (proceeds go to charity)
to see these most interesting
barrier contests. As it hap-
pens, most youngsters to be
raced early already have been
named, some of them months
ago, following the yearling-
sales ; the rest could well be
barred in the general interest
of racing.
© * *
One of the best three-year-
olds of his year in France and
England, Royal Empire (imp.)
has sired many winners in the
eastern States of Australia, in-
cluding Bardshah (A.J.C. St.
Leger), Auteuil (Adelaide
Derby), Gulf Boy (Brisbane),
Royal Perception and Morning
Gleam. There was only a light
list of the sire’s yearlings for
the Randwick sales last Easter.
Bardshah’s owner, M. V. Point,
when owner of Sledmere Stud,
Scone (N.S.W.), offered the
progeny of Royal Empire, but
later he held a dispersal-sale.
At the Randwick yearling-
auction two years ago he was
disappointed at the lightness of
final bids for Bardshah
(250gns.), Royal Perception
"He didn't make his decision in time approaching the
Billy Graham Expressway over the Harbor Bridge!"
(llOgns.) and Morning Gleam
(120gns.). He decided, there-
fore, to race the trio himself.
They have already scored wins
totalling some thousands in
stakes, along with landing
some tidy bets, and there
should be many more wins in
store for all three of them.
Bardshah, especially, could
very likely prove a good winner
over the coming months. His
25-to-l success in the Rosehill
Flying Handicap last Saturday
was certainly a surprise to most
of the Rosehill crowd, but the
stable thought the black geld-
ing had much better than the
outside chance indicated by
the odds. Bardshah, prepared
at Rosebery by Bob Stuart, had
galloped in fine style four days
earlier, and though his last
previous start had been at two
miles—for his good third to
On Line and Foxmara in the
Sydney Cup he was suited
nicely by the sprint-distance, as
good stayers often are at first
up. Th<£ race itself, too, was
made to order for him, because
speedsters New Spec and
Kaoru set a fast pace, to the
undoing of both, and Bardshah,
waiting on them to peter-out,
went on to win in brilliant
style, though only by a brief
margin over Huntly, with
Ramazan third.
Bardshah advanced immedi-
ately to the first line of A.J.C.
Metropolitan favoritism, and
early this week was sharing the
position with Valerius. Bard-
shah's 8.5 in the Metrop. seems
a handy impost for an A.J.C.
St. Leger winner. He has much
the better of the weight-for-
age scale. And he has 8.8 in
both the Melbourne Cup and
Caulfield Cup. Leading up to
the A.J.C. spring carnival he
will have a number of outings,
among them possibly a run in
the Warwick Stakes (w.f.a.) at
Warwick Farm on August 29.
Remarkable improvers at
Rosehill included Carib, Plain
Pilot and Gallant Lee, and it
was little wonder they started
at outside prices. Carib had
shown a lot of pace in Man-
rego’s Randwick race five days
earlier, but faded, and beat
only one home. Plain Pilot was
a dozen lengths away in sixth
place at Rosehill to Little Rock
on July 25, while Gallant Lee,
five days earlier at Randwick,
had finished about eight
lengths away seventh of eleven
starters in' Luck’s A Fortune’s
race. All three of these surprise
winners were at the rear of
the field or close to the tail-
enders in the early stages of the
Rosehill races, but each of
them ran on brilliantly. Carib
was ridden more patiently than
at Randwick. Seven-year-old
Gallant Lee hadn’t won since
taking the Newcastle Cup in
September, 1957.
• • • •
Carib’s performance in
winning the Rosehill Three-
year-old Novice —he was last
after covering about three
furlongs indicated staying
promise, with the approaching
spring round in mind. The
gelding has 7st. in both the
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne
Cup. Whether he’s really a
Cup horse remains to be shown
by his Randwick running, but
at least the field he beat was
no bunch of duffers, and breed-
ing certainly favors him as a
likely stayer. His sire, Bold
Buccaneer (imp.), won four
races at \\ mile in England,
was second at 1| mile, and is
a son of a Derby winner Blue
Peter. Lambrequin (imp.), dam
of Carib, traces back to Spear-
mint, so the gelding has the
Carbine blood in his make-up.
• •. • •
In a blanket-finish between
four horses in the First Parra-
matta Stakes the locally-
trained Lord Cristo gained a
narrow verdict over Loquendi
and Gold Grove. At the
Kembla Grange fixture three
days earlier Lord Cristo was
beaten into third place in a
considerably weaker field. Still,
the four-year-old had been a
model of consistency at pro-
vincial meetings, and had won
two races in succession in July.
Nullari, another of the Rose-
hill surprise winners, taking
the Second Parramatta Stakes,
hadn’t raced since scoring in
Novice three-year-old com-
pany at Randwick last January.
Evidently suited by the rain-
affected going at the Hill,
Nullari is a four-year-old
gelding by Damtar (Fr.) from
Kureebi, a daughter of a
former topnotch galloper,


start the day right!
*eM*
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
Cooranga, who, also, was
trained at Randwick by Stan
Lamond.
Altogether six outsiders won
at Rosehill. The final race went
to the favorite, Shamrock, but
by that time cash punters were
too light in the purse to get
square or win. “Nod” backers
recovered most of their losses.
*. * *
The AJ.C.’s £19,407 on the
wrong side in the 1958-59
season doesn’t make pleasant
reading for Turf followers.
There had been a profit of
£8092 in the previous season,
and meanwhile sharp cuts had
been made in various expendi-
ture. Biggest snag, of course,
is the taxation slug. This cost
the A.J.C. the enormous sum
of £751,925. Totalisator frac-
tions amounted to £25,792, no
mean item, and it seems time
all clubs, with Government
sanction, reduced the per
cent, tote-cut to 10 per cent.
There are more horses in
training at Randwick (478) and
at Warwick Farm (113) than
last year, but at some other,
tracks numbers have decreased.
Reduction in Randwick attend-
ances had a lot to do with
the club’s losses. Warwick
Farm crowds were maintained,
but in general attendances now
are at an almost fixed level.
Maybe a cut in racegoers’
expenses would help to im-
prove attendances. There
should be some interesting
discussion when the club holds
its annual meeting.
♦ * *
Albion Park’s Two Thous-
and, run last Saturday, went
to the fancied Sumarco, in a
close finish with Beau Pierre.
Fox O’Kenmore was third.
Easy winner of the First
Maiden, the three-year-old
Bally Gar, is a colt by Captain
Fox (imp.) from Chely’s
Grande by Mr. Standfast
(imp.) Pete, also an easy
winner in the Second Maiden,
is a three-year-old gelding by
Bold Ben (imp.) from Top
Standard by Silver Standard.
The Third Maiden went to
Clifton Lady—like the other
two, bred in Queensland. She
is by High Strung from
Fletcher River by Silverburn
(imp.) from Chamade by
King’s Scholar (imp.).
* * *
“P.0.M.C.”: In winning
the 1958-59 Sydney jockeys’
premiership Ray Selkrig
returned to his hard-and-fast
followers a comfortable margin
of profit on the £l-a-mount
basis. This feat deserves
recording among racing’s
unusual happenings—leading
riders usually show a loss to
“do or die” followers because
of their mostly short-priced
winners against a formidable
tally of losing rides for the
season. In spite of his popu-
larity, however, Selkrig retains
the knack of securing (and
kickfng-home) more than his
share of mounts quoted at
double figures.
* *
At Caulfield
Prior to the Australian
Steeple at Caulfield last
Saturday many doubted Double
Bracket’s ability to see out the
3y miles. The ten-year-old
Parenthesis gelding confounded
them by leading practically
throughout. He fenced the 29
obstacles perfectly, and had
no trouble to shake-off the
only serious attempt made to
wrest the lead from him—the
effort of last year’s Australian
Steeple winner, Bright Lu.
Over the last half-mile Double
Bracket cleared right away, to
win by 25 lengths from Bright
Lu, with Fulham’s Hope a
plodding third. Although he
acted as his own pacemaker,
Double Bracket’s time of
6.48 7/10 was just inside the
course record of 6.48|, set by
War Loan in 1949.
Double Bracket is owned by a
trio of South Australians, one of
them his trainer, E. F. Skewes,
who combines the seemingly
incongruous professions of solicitor
and racehorse trainer. The other
two partners are R. McLauchlan
and C. A. Koch. The same
combination raced dual Grand
National Hurdle winner By The
Way. Jockey A. Howard, formerly
a Victorian, but now with Skewes
at Naracoorte (S.A.), handled
Double Bracket very well, as indeed
he did on the previous Saturday
when the gelding won the Watson
Steeple. That race has been a
remarkable guide to the Australian
Steeple—the last six winners have
completed the double.
Double Bracket, who started
at 7 to 1, was this page’s selec-
tion for the Australian
Steeple. Of the “big four”
jumping-races of the Mel-
bourne winter, the Grand
National double and the Aus-
tralian double, this page
selected three winners, and in
the other, the Grand National
Hurdle, made the winner, Hill-
wood, its second pick.
V.R.C. vice-chairman E. A.
Underwood had reason to be
pleased with the running of
the Chatsworth Plate at Caul-
field, a mile race for the new
three-year-old colts and geld-
ings. The winner, Anonyme,
and the third placegetter,
Gallant Star, are chestnut colts
by Landau, the English horse
formerly raced by Queen
Elizabeth and brought by
Underwood to Australia at a
cost of £26,250. Both young-
sters are out of well-performed
mares, Anonyme from La
Patrice, and Gallant Star from
Jalna. As a further point of
similarity, Anonyme is owned
by a lady, Mrs. K. Fitzpatrick,
while the other colt is raced
by two ladies, Mrs. G. M.
Hedberg and Miss W. E.
Kellow in partnership with
E. A. Underwood.
The field in the Chatsworth was
good ; it included last-start
metropolitan winners Bosnia,
Repeal, Gold Rebel and Gay
Banner. But it was no surprise to
see Anonyme break through for his
first win. He had run placings in
good company over the summer
months, and at Caulfield last
month, at his first start after a
spell, had run an excellent second
behind Gay Banner. There are more
wins ahead of him. Gallant Star
was completely unfancied at 100
to 1. He had not raced since
January. His strong finish suggested
that he could prove a sound stay-
ing colt, possibly even a Derby
hope.
No less an authority than
V.R.C. handicapper Charles
Davis considers that a punter
looking for a Cup winner
should search the weights for
an improving four-year-old
weighted between 7.10 and
8.2. Just such a prospect is
Fire Foam, who has 7.11 in
the Caulfield Cup. Trainer
Theo Lewis has always had a
good opinion of the Resurgent-
Loch Derg gelding, who won
his second race in a row when
he scored comfortably in the
10-furlongs Cambria Plate.
This time up the gelding has
started five times for, in
sequence, a third, two seconds,
two wins; so he certainly
qualifies as an improver.
Lewis will give Fire Foam a
short break, and possibly set him
for the Caulfield Cup. There are
worse prospects in the race. Fire
Foam is raced by Victorian Foot-
ball League president Ken Luke in
partnership with J. Dixon.
If there is a Welter on the
card for any Caulfield meet-
ing it is a sound bet that
Brocken will be in the field.
The seven-year-old Pamphilos-
Alpine Maid gelding has
started no fewer than 18 times
in the last eight months, and
his last four starts have been
in Caulfield Welters. He in-
variably runs a sound race,
and every now and again bobs-
up at the head of the field.
Last Saturday’s win with top-
weight of- 9.5 in the heavy
going was one of his best
runs. Trainer Fred Hoysted
has plenty of horses in his
stables whose class far exceeds
Brocken’s, but the old gelding
is a useful potboiler when the
stars are resting.
Not many two-mile flat races
are now run in Australia, and
it is certainly no encouragement
for clubs to stage such events
when they are contested in the
farcical manner the Malakoff
Stakes was run in at Caulfield
last Saturday. All jockeys
fought with their mounts to
hold them back to a canter for
the first half-mile, and the time
was 3.40 7-10 inexcusable
even allowing for the heavy
state of the track. The two
miles Hurdle record at Caul-
field is 3.33|, and even on
Saturday, in the Arkaringa
Hurdle, the winner, Star de
Feu, took only three seconds
longer than Choctaw did to
win the Malakoff!
Former Sydney galloper
Lord Ray surprised everybody
—including his trainer, Bill
Mclnnes when he made a
one-act affair of a sprint at
Moonee Valley a fortnight ago.
Mclnnes had been told that his


WITH THE
Kodak
Ift FUN, SAVES MdNEf!.
DEVELOPING AND PRINTII
YOUR OWN SNAPSHOTS
PHOTO-
HOBBY
OUTFIT
m
PHOB
Taking pictures is fun, but
it’s, a greater thrill when
you develop and print them
yourself — and you can do
it!— with the Kodak Photo-
Hobby Outfit. Contains
everything needed, particu-
larly an easy-to-follow step-
by-step instruction chart.
Complete outfit
£5.10.0
IT’S MADE BY KODAK
SO YOU KNOW IT’S GOOD
1
Sydney form indicated that the
Sun King Voler gelding
could not handle a heavy track.
Lord Ray won that Valley race
practically unbacked, but it was
a different story when he raced
in the six-furlongs St. Aubin
Handicap at Caulfield on Satur-
day, when Lord Ray’s quote
shortened from 5 to 2 to 10 to 9.
He justified the support by
winning clearly, after holding a
forward position throughout.
Lord Ray is owned in Melbourne
by a group of professional men,
Doctors J. Lipson and N. Roth-
field, and a barrister who uses the
nom-de-course of “D. Mountson.”
* * *
Other Sports
Randwick proved its right
to hold the top of Sydney
Rugby Union’s table with a
clear-cut 29-8 defeat of Uni-
versity ; nine tries to one.
’Wick’s two particular stars
were young half-back Catch-
pole (two tries and a hand in
a lot of the others) and winger
Morton (three determined
tries). In another cut-throat
game among the leaders North
always had St. George’s
measure, 12-6. Manly and
Gordon both won, as expected
—the Seagulls trounced Parra-
matta 32-3 and Gordon white-
washed Eastwood 21-0. In
the other game East beat
Drummoyne 14 -10.... At
Sydney Sports Ground, in their
annual match, G.P.S. beat
C.H.S, 25-11.... At New
Plymouth the British Isles
defeated Taranaki 15-3.
* *
“Dentonio”: Further to
“Mitron’s” par. on the value
of the penalty-goal in Rugby
Union (B. 29/7/’59), don’t
forget that skill in goal-kicking
is a vital feature of Rugby,
while tries can be the result of
flukes, and sometimes go
against the run of play. Still,
I don’t agree with a South
African proposal that the
value of the penalty-goal be
raised to four points, for it
must be remembered that a lot
of infringements are not
deliberate. Where there is
deliberate infringement near
the try-line, refs, should keep
in mind that they can award
a penalty-try.
* * *
In their two earlier games in
Sydney Rugby League this
year West had each time
beaten Manly—24-13 and
19-16; but in the final on
Saturday it was Manly,
though only by one point,
14-13, in a dour, unattractive
forward struggle. Manly
played it that way, keeping
the ball mostly among its four
top forwards, Bull, Mossop,
Delamere and Diversi. West
began with the big handicap
of being without Test centre
Wells and two of its best
forwards, O’Shea and Bow-
man. This Saturday, it’s St.
George and Manly for the
premiership.
* * *
Shock of Saturday’s V.F.L.
“ Don't you think young Willington is taking his
Classical History a bit too seriously ?”
round was Footscray’s 12.8-
11.10 defeat of Melbourne.
The Bulldogs were faster and
more tenacious all day, and
deserved their nine-point win—
only ’Scray’s second of the
season. It defeated South in
the fifth round. As a result
of Melbourne’s loss, and its
own 14.20-13.6 win over Rich-
mond (which fought back with
six goals straight to 1.3 in the
last quarter), Carlton . has
regained top position on the
table. At home Collingwood,
as expected, beat St. Kilda
12.18-9.11, and it should now
certainly qualify for the finals,
with only the three bottom
teams to meet —even if Foot-
scray happens to remain in
“giant-killing” mood. Essendon,
keeping its hopes alive, had a
gdod “away” win over North,
16.14-11.8, with young full-
forward Evans kicking nine of
them. Fitzroy, still in it, too,
beat Geelong 11.15-6.11, and,
in a seesawing game, Hawthorn
had an exciting one-point win
over South, 10.3-8.14.
* * *
“Old Pivot”: Playing along-
side each other on Colling-
wood’s forward - line this
season, Brewer and Beers have
at times concocted a potent
mixture for opponents.
* * *
“Jock”: Mosman (Sydney)
baseball-club doesn’t grant
many life-memberships, but
recently made a very popular
one, to Malcolm Perryman.
When the club was formed in
’2B, Perryman joined the third-
grade side, and has been in the
sport ever since. In third-
grade he set a batting-record
that has never been equalled—
six times up to bat for six safe
hits. Perryman played in
major grade for 14 years, and
is now an umpire. He also
played both Rugby Union and
Rugby League.
* * *
“Keima”: Surely the Davis
Cup should be split-up into
two divisions, with a promo-
tion-and-relegation system;
would give some of the weaker
nations at least the chance" of
being second-division cham-
pion. At present a lot of them
don’t even have much chance
of being a zone-winner. The
suggested system would widen
interest in tennis in those
countries. Another thing—
why shouldn't the holder of
the Cup have to play its way
through its zone every year,
instead of playing only in the
challenge-round?
* * *
“A.U.A.”: lan Johnson,
writing to justify the bowling-
actions of Meckiff and Rorke,
mentioned in passing that
M. A. - Noble led the 1902
Australian cricket-team to
England. Wrong. Noble was
a member of the side, but it
was skippered by South Aus-
tralian Joe Darling (skipper
also in 1899 and 1905). Noble
led the 1909 team.
* * *
“Zorok”: At the Festival
Hall, Brisbane, George Barnes
rose to the occasion, as he so
often does, to defeat Austra-
lian welter champion Billy
Todd and retain the British
Empire welter title which he
first won from Barry Brown
in November, 1954. In the
15th and last round, after a
hard and gruelling fight, both
boxers were slugging it out
trying for a k.o. There wasn’t
much in it. Still, it would
seem about time something
was done about Barnes’s
anomalous position in being
British Empire champion but
not Australian champion—
though Barnes himself is to an
extent responsible for there
being two champions where
one should be.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ROOM AT THE TOP
"P ditorially arguing the
value of a meeting between
Khrushchev and Eisenhower,
London “Economist” notes
that “at present there seem to
be advantages to Mr. Khrush-
chev in seeking a general
relaxation of tension [between
Russia and the U.S.]”:
“The Soviet drive to overtake
American production is getting
into gear ; yet Mr. Khrushchev
has just had to admit some
serious imperfections in his
industrial system. There are
managerial reforms to be com-
pleted ; modernisation of
machinery is badly needed (it
seems to be this that Mr.
Khrushchev means when he
talks of automation); Soviet
planners have run into trouble
over the shortage of develop-
ment capital ; existing develop-
ment funds and production
surpluses are badly needed
within the Communist bloc and
in aid to uncommitted
countries. Spending on the
astral and arms competitions
with the United States will
always be high, but any saving
in the military budget would
help the industrial drive.
“At the same time pressure
for consumer goods is plainly
increasing in the technocratic
and managerial classes. Housing
demands are at last having to
be satisfied on a massive scale.
Visitors to Moscow speak of
a car craze —and Soviet pro-
duction of private cars has
hitherto been pegged down to
artificially low levels.
“A magnate community
Russia’s top people—has come
into being, and its influence
and tastes are spreading to a
wider bourgeoisie. The whole
message of the Soviet exhibi-
tion in New York, that a
society capable of achieving
American living - standards
already exists in the Soviet
Union, is itself the measure
of Mr. Khrushchev’s latest
problem.
“These pressures have all
been evident before, but as
Soviet energies are concentrated
on the economic race they are
becoming more urgent and
more difficult to resist. Mr.
Khrushchev does not see this
social development as a weak-
ness. He is the first Soviet
leader who is not only anxious
to beat the Americans at their
own game but is confident that
this really will happen.
“Whatever traces may
remain of formal Marxist
dogma, Mr. Khrushchev’s bid
for world power no longer
depends on the theses of
capitalist slump and Com-
munist revolution. In place of
the slump he puts the contrast
between the 2 per cent, annual
growth of the United States
economy and the faster pace
Washington "Post.”
“SAY, IF WE DON’T GET STARTED PRETTY SOON ”
the Soviet union means to
keep-up even after American
production has been over-
hauled. In place of world
revolution he relies on the
underdeveloped world’s admira-
tion for Soviet living-standards
which, according to Mr. Koz-
lov, will be unsurpassed in 15
years’ time. These calculations
may go wildly wrong without
upsetting Soviet self-confidence
in the final issue.
“When placed in the context
of the nuclear stalemate, the
new Soviet emphasis on out-
classing the United States
economically suggests logically
some form of political accom-
modation between the two
world blocs. It could easily
take a decade to bring about
even a limited arrangement.
But among the more significant
developments of 1959 may be
counted the increase in Russo-
American contacts, and not
least the travels of younger
political figures like Mr. Nixon
and Mr. Kozlov. The leaders
on both sides need at least to
understand how their
opponents’ minds work.
“Mr. Khrushchev has under-
standable personal reasons for
having the last word in Soviet
diplomacy. This alone would
explain his readiness to travel
to the summit, or to Washing-
ton. He can use a period of
international relaxation. He
has an evident interest in
seeking agreement on the
control of nuclear weapons and
general disarmament. None of
this is so much against Western
interests that President Eisen-
hower can refuse to meet him.
“Mr. Khrushchev naturally
wants to embarrass the West
if he can. His tactics over
Berlin have already revealed
Western divisions and have
weakened Dr. Adenauer politi-
cally in Germany. The crisis
has given Mr. Khrushchev all
the local fringe benefits he
could have wished for. But if
the West is to plumb the
deeper currents in Soviet policy
the only way is still to sound
Mr. Khrushchev himself. The
job can be done better in
Washington than anywhere
else.”
Japanese Trade
/Commenting on Japanese
Prime Minister Kishi’s
visit to Britain, London
“Economist” notes that
although it “was perhaps too
short to produce any really
concrete results.... if it proves
to have helped to disperse the
cloud of outdated notions that
obscures the Japan of 1959
it will still have been worth
while” :
“A world obsessed by much-
publicised economic growth in
Russia and China has tended
to overlook the fact that Japan
has made comparable progress
since 1945, without Com-
munism. Even more than
before the war, Japan is today
the industrial giant of Asia.
Obliged, even more than
Britain, to export or die, it now
offers manufactures of im-
proved quality, most of them
no longer produced by sweated
labor.
“Last year Mr. Kishi’s
attempt to boost trade with
mainland China while still
giving diplomatic recognition
to the Nationalist Government
in Formosa broke-down when
Peking unilaterally denounced
all trade-agreements with
Japan. With the China market
closed, politics and common-
sense alike dictate that Japanese
industry should find outlets in
South-east Asia. Bitter
memories of the war-time
‘greater east Asia co-prosperity
sphere’ have long frustrated
this aim.
“More countries might make
an effort to reduce trade-
barriers on a regional basis.
They would hardly be prepared
to plunge, at this stage, into
anything like a free-trade
area ; but there might well be
scope for an effort to get rid
of quotas, on the lines of
the liberalisation programme
applied in the Organisation
for European Economic Co-
operation.
“Such a programme is not
likely to get far unless there
is a sanction behind it. If a
regional organisation had a
development-bank at its centre
it might enjoy an impetus
comparable in kind to that
which Marshall Aid gave


"Embezzlement is an unpleasant business..,”
And it happens more often than you think.
Embezzlement, like fire, could cost you your
profit could even cost you your business.
The shrewd businessman looks on insurance
premiums as money well spent. He looks to
Insurance Experts to see he gets the most
adequate protection his money can buy.
He looks to I.N.A.
I.N.A Insurance Company of North
America... .draws on 167 years’ experience,
867,000,000 dollars in assets, to bring you a
new concept of friendly helpful insurance.
I.N.A. believes in prompt claims settlement,
and the interpretation of insurance contracts
in a spirt of compromise and reasonableness.
I.N.A. offers the business owner cover against
Fire with Consequential Loss of Profits,
Public Risk, Burglary, Plate Glass, Personal
• Accident and All Sickness, Marine (Intra-
state, Interstate and International). Tourist
Travel and Luggage Protection.
It may well be in your own interest to see how
I.N.A. can help you. You will find them
friendly people to deal,with.
▲
INSURANCE BY NORTH AMERICA
Insurance Company of North America
Incorporated in U.S.A. with limited Liability.
BRANCHES AT SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • AUCKLAND, N.Z.


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone BL 5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
O.E.E.C. Such an organisa-
tion could only be a success
if Japan was merely one of
several equal partners in it.
“Like West Germany in
Europe, Japan has a great con-
tribution to make to a collec-
tive effort; but that contribu-
tion will be acceptable to its
neighbors only if it is clear
that Japan is not going to run
the show. A regional develop-
ment-bank would, therefore,
have to draw substantial con-
tributions from other countries
in the area, and perhaps from
Europe and the United States.”
The Caribbean
T ooking at recent events in
the Caribbean, London
“Time and Tide” concludes
that the area “is being subjected
to intensive pressure by
Moscow”:
“As far as the Kremlin is
concerned the stakes are high
and attractive. A Communist
win in any of the Caribbean
islands would provide the
U.S.S.R. with an ideal rocket-
base off the coast of America,
and would be a further step
in driving the U.S.A. into iso-
lation.
“Cuba could well spark-off
the trouble, which could then
run like a forest fire through-
out the entire area. Relations
between Cuba and the
Dominican Republic have
[lately] reached crisis propor-
tions and rumors and counter
rumors of invasion are rife.
“There is increasing internal
unrest inside Cuba itself as
Fidel Castro fails to keep his
promise to better the lot of the
people. Cuba’s economy,
which formerly provided the
second-highest per capita in-
come in Latin America, is now
stagnating, while unemploy-
ment is on the increase. The
Government’s land-reform pro-
gramme is causing uneasiness,
particularly amongst cattlemen
and commercial farmers, and
plots against Fidel Castro have
been discovered.
“This has caused Fidel
Castro to resign in order to
strengthen his hand when he
is reinstated by popular
acclaim. The resignation of
Dr. Urrutia is a great loss for
the Moderates in Cuba, and
opens the door even wider for
the Communists. The Chief of
the Cuban Air Force has
resigned after charging that the
Communists had moved into
key positions inside the armed
forces, and that they had been
helped by Castro’s fellow-
travelling brother Raoul. The
Major also stated that the
Communists had ‘a determined
plan of indoctrination of
Cuban officers.’ The Major
was immediately branded as
a. traitor and fled the country.
An Army officer defector
charged that the Communists
have already penetrated deeply
into the Government and were
planning invasions of several
Caribbean countries.
“Many foreign Communists
are ‘vacationing’ in Cuba at
the moment, while some of
Cuba’s top Communists are
visiting Moscow. A Chinese
delegation in Havana is offer-
ing probable markets for
Cuban sugar. A Chinese Com-
munist newspaper is being
started for the Chinese com-
munity of 30,000. The situ-
ation has become so serious
that the Catholic Archbishop
of Santiago, formerly a Castro
supporter, has publicly warned
the Prime Minister against
‘officials who drink at the same
fountains as the Communists.’
“Latin American Com-
munists are delighted with the
way things are going in
Havana. They hope to use
Fidel Castro to overthrow every
remaining dictatorship in the
area. They calculate that as
Castro loses his middle-class
support he will have to rely
more and more on them in
order to retain power. In this
way Cuba could quickly be-
come a Communist paradise.
“Further north, in the West
Indies Federation, there is un-
rest beneath a deceptive surface
calm. Reports from Jamaica
tell of a blood-brotherhood,
based on Mau Mau ideas from
Kenya, which has already
spread amongst thousands of
the population in the Federa-
tion. It is even rumored that
Kenyatta- has been asked to
come and train them.
“Washington i§ moving in
conjunction with ' other Latin
American countries, through
the Organisation of American
States, to damp-down the
flames, but Whitehall, too,
needs to pay attention to this
vital area and to take advance
action.”
Aid to Spain
"Editorial comment on the
admission of Spain as the
18 th member of the Organisa-
New York “Herald Tribune.”
WHO WINS?
tion for European Economic
Co-operation:
“New York Times”:
“Twenty years of ineptness,
mismanagement and corrup-
tion have brought the Spanish
economy to such a pass that
heln of preat magnitude and
expert andTontrol are
needed. This is the simple
explanation for the c,edits of
more than $400,000,000 now
u • r-
being extended to Franco
Spain by international organi-
V j u i ri
sations and banks, the United
0 , . _ * A ■
States Government and pn-
,*, , y
vate American banks.
“Manv Americans mav feel
Many Americans may feel
unhappy that, as they see it,
r • T- • u •
Generalissimo Franco is being
bailed-out again. This is
, . , •, • ,
somewhat beside the point.
. . • *
The economic stagnation, the
inflation, the weakness of the
currency, the imbalance of
trade and other evidences of
distress were being borne by
the Spanish people. The aid
that is now being extended and
the stabilisation-plan which
will go into effect as the price
that General Franco must pay
will benefit the Spanish people.
“Any policy toward Spain
that sought to weaken or
destroy the Caudillo and his
dictatorship at the expense of
the ordinary Spaniard would
be folly. That mistake was
made just after the Second
World War, and its only
results were to strengthen
General Franco and bring
more suffering to the people
of Spain.”
* * *
Edin burgh “Scotsman”:
“0.E.E.C., having no political
fears, is happily in a much
better position [than the U.S.
has been] to force a more
sensible economic policy on
the country. O.E.E.C. experts
have made it a condition of
Spain’s entry that a radical
overhaul should be made, and
the first results have already
been seen in Spain’s devalua-
tion of the peseta, long over-
due. This, coupled with
O.E.E.C.’s projected loans
and the additional help of the
International Monetary Fund
and private and State loans


Divorce Notices
TO JEFFREY CLARENCE GREEDY
formerly of Bedford Park, Western Aus-
tralia.—TAKE NOTICE that'your wife
HILDA REBECCA GREEDY 'has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of desertion for
a continuous period of three years or
more. If you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your Defence
in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth within Forty (40) clear
days from the date of this publication
In default of your so doing the case
may proceed and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. —DATED
the 27th day of July, 1959. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar.
John HENSHAW, of 170 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Western Australia, Soli-
citor for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO LILIAN McGOVERN lately of
Mount Morgan Queensland. —TAKE
NOTICE that GREGORY ANDREW
McGOVERN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1310 of 1959 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 16th October
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from N. V. MENLOVE,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
£5OO to
£lOOO P.fl.
IN TAX
This Year and
Each Year
(or the Next 5 Years
A strictly Limited Offer of
Outstanding Tax Savings
Opportunity to Recipients
of
Higher-than-average
Incomes
Particulars by Personal
Interview. For Appoint-
ment, phone—
MA 9855
D. M. CLARKE
& COMPANY
Tax Consultants
11 Randle Street, Sydney.
from America, should at least
buy a reasonably long breath-
ing-space for Spain to set her
house in order. Judging by
past experience, however, it
would be well for O.E.E.C. to
continue to keep a fairly tight
control on the manner in
which its money is being used.”
* * ®
London “Spectator” :.“Up to
a point, the friendlier attitude
of the West, shown in the
admission of Spain to full
membership of 0.E.E.C., is
probably a healthier influence
on Spanish internal affairs
than the —very understandable
—cold-shouldering of the past.
But this should not necessarily
mean that the West should go
further and admit Spain to
Nato, as she is asking, with
the support of Portugal and
of General de Gaulle. The
Liberals now making their
voices heard in Spain and be-
yond can justly complain that
to admit Franco to Nato
would be to bestow a sort of
accolade, and to strengthen his
seat in the saddle. They are
entitled to be heard. Indeed,
it is to be hoped that some-
where, however unofficially
and discreetly, Western diplo-
matists are in touch with their
spokesmen. The best hope
for the cause of democracy in
Western Europe is that these
are the people we shall eventu-
ally have to deal with officially.
To disregard them is to help
only Franco —and the Com-
munists.”
Socialist Resolutions
'Two editorial comments on
the main resolutions
passed at the Sixth Congress
of the Socialist International
at Hamburg :
“New York Times” : “Speci-
fically the Socialist congress,
consisting of representatives
from 38 parties around the
world claiming 11,000,000
members and 60,000,000
voters, took a stand in defence
of Mr. Khrushchev’s most
immediate target—West Ber-
lin. It proclaimed its own
solidarity and that of all free
people with West Berlin and
declared that the permanent
solution of the Berlin prob-
lems must be found in a
united and democratic Ger-
many within a free European
community.
“In taking this stand, the
Socialist International is in
line with both its own demo-
cratic traditions and with the
policies of the Western
Powers. But when it comes
to the practical application of
policy the Socialists continue
to cling to certain other tradi-
tions which incline them to-
ward utopianism and pacifism,
and which reduce them to the
status of minority parties
almost everywhere.
“Thus, while standing-up to
the Soviets in principle, they
oppose what they call the
‘spread of nuclear weapons,’
which is presumably directed
against Nato’s atomic arma-
ment that is the only deterrent
to Soviet ambitions.
“This position is splitting
the British Labor party and
reducing support of the Ger-
man Socialists to its class
kernel. Even the class kernel
is beginning to erode in the
face of an un-Marxist work-
men’s prosperity, with the
result that the really prosper-
ing Socialist parties are those
which, as in Sweden and Nor-
way, broaden their base from
class to mass by facing-up to
the realities of national defence
and concentrating less on
Socialism and more on democ-
racy and social reform and
welfare. Within such a frame-
work the Socialists have a
function to fulfil in defence of
freedom against Communist
slavery.”
* * *
London “New Statesman”:
“By all accounts Hugh
Gaitskell has every reason to
be satisfied with the reception
given to his non-nuclear club
at Hamburg. The Socialist
International does not, of
course, claim the right to dic-
tate to member-parties. None-
theless, most of the parties
gave the plan a guarded wel-
come, and Fritz Erler for the
Germans was enthusiastic. The
Swedish delegate went so far
as to say that, if a non-nuclear
club were formed, the Social
Democrats in Sweden, who
are at present debating whether
Sweden should make her own
bomb, would almost certainly
decide to join the club.
“The only opposition came,
as expected, from the French
Socialists, led by Jules Moch
and Pineau. They came armed
with a resolution passed by
their own party congress a
few days earlier. This ignored
the non-nuclear club (although
the idea had already been
launched in Britain) and called
instead for a two-year suspen-
sion of tests pending negotia-
tions for a multilateral agree-
ment on nuclear disarmament.
If, at the end of that period,
no agreement is reached,
nations would regain their
freedom of action.
“The resolution added a
characteristically chauvinistic
touch to the effect that France
was not prepared to deny her-
self the most modern weapons
as long as other nations had
them —a line which Jules
Moch has been faithfully
plugging for some time in the
disarmament talks on behalf of
the French Government.
“Hugh Gaitskell may be
right in claiming that the
French party’s demand for a
two-year moratorium on tests
marks an advance on their
previous attitude. Logically,
of course, it should mean that
Guy Mollet will now demand
the postponement of the
Sahara tests. A most improb-
able development.”
Various Voices
Dr. James R. Killian, jnr.
o recently chief scientific ad-
viser to President Eisenhower ):
“We must not let ourselves be
deceived about the increas-
ingly exacting demands upon
our will and our resources yet
to be imposed by the military
and economic as well as the
technological competition of
the Soviet bloc a competi-
tion that may require us to
make some hard choices be-
tween growing comfort and
leisure on the one hand and
self-denial and hard work on
the other.”
Mr. Harold Watkinson
(. Britain’s Minister of Trans-
port and Civil Aviation): “We
[the British Government]
accept the sincerity of those
who say we should cast away
our nuclear weapons or that
we should try to form some
kind of non-nuclear club
amongst the smaller nations.
We believe that it is essential
for the peace of the world that
we should stay in the nuclear
club. Only in that way can we
exert our opinions upon our
allies and the Russians.”
Senator J. W. Fulbright: “By
any arithmetic-test of potential
strength, it is we [the Western
allies] who should be giving
the Soviets sleepless nights
and not the other way around.
For if the population and the
industrial resources of Europe
and the United States were
really mobilised to act in con-
cert, and if that strength were
translated into a military
dimension, the aggregate
would exceed by far anything
the Soviets could muster in
the foreseeable future.”


Legal Notice
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT
HOLDEN AT SYDNEY.
No. 20148 of 1959.
BETWEEN WARWICK KENT
MALLICK Plaintiff AND DESMOND
MASIK Defendant.
TO DESMOND MASIK of “Merrimba”
Station Warren. —TAKE NOTICE that
a plaint has been entered and a sum-
mons issued against you in the District
Court of the Western District Holden
at Dubbo which has been ordered to be
transferred to this Court by Warwick
Kent Mallick of “Merrimba” Station
Warren against you for damages and
an order has been made that personal
service of the summons be dispensed
with and that publication of a notice
in the Sydney Morning Herald news-
paper and Bulletin newspaper respect-
ively shall be deemed to be service of
the summons on you The summons will
be heard at the Metropolitan District
Court Queen’s Square Sydney on the
First day of September 1959 at ten
o’clock in the forenoon on which day
you are required to appear and if you
do not appear either in person or by
your Solicitor at the time and place
abovementioned such order will be
made and proceedings taken as the
Judge may think just and expedient.
DATED this 27th day of July, 1959. —
C. E. CHAPMAN, Registrar.
the Solomon Islands Adminis-
tration and who, largely
through his vast experience of
natives and the terrain, was
later to become the corner-
stone of coast-watching in the
Solomons.
Kennedy reported the pres-
ence of some Jap warships
and transports in Thousand
Ships Bay, Ysabel Island ; and
the presence of transports was
regarded as highly significant,
pointing to a probable Jap
invasion of Tulagi, the Solo-
mon Islands capital at the
time.
This supposition proved
correct. The U.S. aircraft-
carrier Yorktown was dis-
patched to the Tulagi area,
and her aircraft inflicted con-
siderable damage on Japanese
ships taking part in the land-
ing.
'T'he problem of installing
coast-watchers in enemy-
occupied islands was difficult
enough, but there was also the
problem of keeping them sup-
plied with stores and food-
stuffs.
Aircraft were the answer.
Supplies were dropped by
parachute at night, the pack-
ages sometimes being placed
in canvas buckets fitted -with
special impact-buffers.
To enable airmen to pin-
point the location of a coast-
watching post, fires conforming
to a prearranged pattern were
lit in the immediate vicinity ;
and this practice once caused
a contretemps.
In a village close to the
coast-watching post concerned
a native had died ; tribal cus-
tom demanded that a funeral-
pyre be lit at night, and under-
standably the coast-watcher
became alarmed., as the light-
ing of another fire might well
mislead the aircraft.
He lost no time in putting
this to the local luluai, but that
stalwart upholder of tribal cus-
tom was hard to convince. At
length, however, in the face
of the persistence of the now
heavily - perspiring coast -
watcher, he capitulated. “All
righ’, master,” he said, “ ’im ’e
all righ’, me cookim before
sun ’e go down!”
TYTO proper appreciation of
the work of the coast-
watchers can be formed unless
it is related to the general
operational scene.
Of particular importance
were the coast - watchers
“She doesn't like to get her feet Wet.”
stationed on Bougainville
Island, where, at Buin, on its
southern tip, the Japs had
established'an important base.
Among these coast-watchers
there were two whose names
were to become a legend
through their courage and the
vast amount of vital intelli-
gence, particularly as affecting
later operations in the Solo-
mons, they managed to trans-
mit. They were Lieutenants
Jack Read and Paul Mason,
popularly known as “the firm
of Read and Mason.”
Two men more opposite in
general make-up it would be
hard to imagine. Read was
short and deep-voiced, with a
tight-lipped, grim face capable
of breaking at times into a
broad grin fascinating through
its unexpectedness. Mason was
bespectacled, disarmingly mild
of mien and speech, looking
more like a butterfly-hunter
than a war hero.
Hunted almost continuously
by Jap patrols, but eluding
them through superior know-
ledge of the jungle, these two
men had a physical endurance
matched only by their relent-
less devotion to their work.
“Immediately adjacent to
•*- Bougainville there com-
mences the chain of islands
composing the British Solomon
Islands Protectorate. On the
strength of topographical
knowledge, it was figured out
that if the Japs wanted to
secure the Solomons they
would land on Guadalcanal
and build an airfield there.
This proved correct, and, in
anticipation of it, a coast-
watching post had some
months before been set-up in
the Guadalcanal mountain-
chain at a spot called Gold
Ridge, about 5000 ft. above
sea-level. Alluvial goldmining
had been carried out here on
a small scale in peace-time,
and the coast-watching party,
under Lieutenant-Commander
Don Macfarlan, took-over an
abandoned miner’s shack.
From this grandstand-seat
at Gold Ridge, Macfarlan,
with his two companions Hay
and Andresen, was able, over-
looking Sealark Channel, to
observe and report accurately
countless movements of war-
ships, store-ships and trans-
ports used by the Japs in their
Guadalcanal operations.
Owing to lack of informa-
tion from long-range recon-
naissance aircraft, whose move-
ments were greatly restricted
by shocking weather condi-
tions, and the absence of
meteorological information, it
was largely upon coast-
watchers’ reports that the
Allies’ plans for a counter-
attack on Guadalcanal were
based ; and it was a notable
and far-reaching event when,
on August 8, 1942, the First
U.S. Marine Division landed
at Lunga and drove the
Japanese from the airfield they
had built—later to become
known as the Henderson Field.
the receiving-end, the
coast - watching modus
operandi at Guadalcanal was
as follows.
Usually at about 0800 the
deep tones of Jack Read,
located on northern Bougain-
ville, would come booming
through the loudspeaker of the
teleradio with a message such
as this: “Eighteen Mitsubishis
and twelve Zeros now over-
head and going your way!”
Immediately Lieutenant-Com-
mander Hugh Mackenzie
(then in immediate control of
coast-watching operations in
the South Pacific) would phone
the message through to Marine
Air Ops. in their unusual
premises—in the shape of a
Japanese pagoda—on a little
knoll close by the runway.
From their well-concealed
dispersal-bays, aircraft, not-
ably the Grumman Wildcat
fighters, would appear. Soon
they would be roaring in quick
succession down the runway,
and then, silhouetted against
the nearby mountain massif
(surely a fitting backdrop for
the epic deeds performed at
Guadalcanal), would flip-off
up into the skies.
Measured against Zeros, the
Wildcats had a comparatively
slow rate of climb, but they
had superior armor protection
around the cockpit. ’T he coast-
watchers’ warning enabled
them to get sufficient altitude
by the time the enemy aircraft
appeared. How they dealt with
the Jap aircraft is a matter of
history.
Tn the Solomons and in New
Guinea the coast-watchers
also rescued many air-crews
who had been shot-down over
enemy-occupied territory, and
survivors from vessels sunk by
the Japs. In all, 575 Allied
service personnel were rescued
by them and given food and
protection until they could be


Ftufli in the
Future
\
0
On Friday next, August 14, exactly fourteen
years will have passed since the end of the
Pacific War.
Amid the daily pressures we are sometimes
inclined, I think, to put into mental recess the
memory of sacrifices which were made in that war
to ensure our deliverance.
A timely reminder comes in another volume
of Australia’s Official War History: “South-West
Pacific Area, First Year: Kokoda to Wau.”
It is a recording of valour in a harsh terrain
in days when our country was close to invasion.
I would recommend its reading to all who
appreciate the importance of individual courage
and character in the nation-building that is still
before us. '
This section of the history covers the fifteen
critical months from December, 1941 —when three
of our A.I.F. Divisions were in the Middle East
and a fourth was in Malaya— to March, 1943,
when the Japanese in New Guinea had been beaten
at Milne Bay and thrown back across the Owen
Stanleys from the steep slopes above Port Moresby.
In this period also—in March, 1942—General
Douglas MacArthur came out of the Philippines to
assume Supreme Command in the area, and
General Sir Thomas Blarney returned to reorganise
his national forces under that command.
Difficulties were manifest in integrating the
American and Australian services and commands.
As becomes a chronicler of fact, the historian does
not attempt to mask them.
But through the details the discerning reader
will see the larger picture of men devoted to a
common cause.
History, to be rightly appraised, must be
viewed in its total aspect. It is like looking at a
grand mosaic. Each piece, when taken and
examined minutely, is only a fragment. In inlay
it has its true meaning in the form of the
finished work.
The living fact of the Pacific War in this
theatre is that out of zealous united effort a great
Australian-American alliance was formed. Because
it was sealed in mutual service and sacrifice, it
needs neither time nor treaty to prove it. And it
will endure.
evacuated by submarine or
flying-boat.
In the early part of the war
it had been impressed upon
the coast-watchers that be-
cause of their great value as
a source of reporting, they
were to avoid open conflict
with the enemy. To drive
this point home, they were
dubbed “members of Ferdin-
and Party,” a name coined
from Disney’s then popular
cartoon-character, Ferdinand
the Bull, who, rather than seek
combat with his rivals, pre-
ferred to sit under a tree and
sniff flowers.
This policy was reversed
when the Allied Forces had
gained command of the sea,
for hostilities were by then
mostly confined to ground-
forces. Also, the natives
attached to coast-watching
parties had shown, by their
knowledge of the jungle and
their proficiency with small-
arms, that they would make
useful guerrillas, and steps
were taken to develop them.
How successfully this was
achieved is illustrated by the
fact that native coast-watching
guerrillas killed no fewer than
5400 Japs, while 74 (the ratio
being somewhat small!) were
taken prisoner.
Battles are too often des-
cribed in colorless officialese.
Somewhat refreshing, then, is
the following report, submitted
to a coast-watcher by his New
Guinea native sergeant:
Hullo, Big Master!
All long Sat’dy we feller lookim
smoke belong fire belong Japan all
’e makeim long big road. Now
we feller ’e sleep long morning
time long Sunday, we feller ’e get
up long six-o’clock. Jap feller
come long road long seven-o’clock.
Now we feller ready long all. All
righ’, we fire long all. Me catchim
two feller one time. We feller
smokeim, makeim, makeim savvy
true. Narkina ’e shootim 5, Laga
6, Nagina 4, Melemuli 4. Now we
throwim bomb, ’e killim 9. All
righ’, now we feller look look;
now big feller more ’e come. ..Cap-
tain come first long all. All righ’,
Narwa ’e shootim. We feller fight
again, all ’e shootim, makeim,
makeim savvy true.
We feller, ’e shoot, shoot, shoot.
Bimeby cartridge belong we all
finish. Tas no good, all beggar-up;
me talkim boys we feller run away
now, cartridge finish. .
Bimeby we feller come back long
bush. Me countim all Japan feller
we shootim long Sunday now 37.
Tas all.
“PARLY in the war, casualties
among coast - watchers
were severe. There followed
a long run of comparative
freedom from misfortune ; but
in March, 1944, stark tragedy
overtook a coast-watching
venture at Tanamerah Bay
(Netherlands New Guinea)
under the leadership of an
Army officer, Captain G. C.
Harris.
The party, numbering 12
and including four New
Guinea natives and an Indo-
nesian interpreter, was trans-
ported to Tanamerah Bay in
a U.S. submarine and duly
landed. The landing was ob-
served by several natives in a
hut close to the beach, one of
whom informed the Japanese
in the area.
Although they seemed
friendly enough, Harris,
through his long experience of
natives as a patrol-officer in
Australian New Guinea, dis-
trusted them. He had gone
ashore in advance in a rubber
boat, and he signalled by
flash-lamp to the submarine
that the venture was to be
called-off. Unfortunately, his
signal was misunderstood, and
the remainder of the party
came ashore.
At daylight they moved off
into the jungle, and some
hours later were attacked by
a Jap platoon armed with
machine-guns and mortars.
Harris ordered his party to
split, and he and several others
bore the brunt of the enemy
fire. After about four hours
only Harris, badly wounded,
remained alive. The Japs
closed on him, propped him
up against a tree and began
questioning him about the
organisation behind the ven-
ture. All they got from Harris
was a defiant gaze, so they
bayoneted him to death.
A captured Japanese docu-
ment revealed these facts, and
the Jap report paid a high
tribute to Harris’s courage.
Many weeks passed before
the last of the five survivors
of the party found his way
into the Allied line. Two of
them, Lieutenant Weber and
Private Jeune, had a particu-
larly narrow escape when they
were by a Japanese
officer with a sword. In the
struggle, Jeune rammed his
fingers up the Jap’s nostrils
and, after Weber had shot him
in the stomach, finished him
off by his own sword.
CJuch, then, in broad outline,
is the story of the coast-
watchers, that small but gal-
lant band of individualists,
many of whom (some posthum-
ously) were awarded decora-
tions, British and American.
One of the three memorial
plaques at the foot of the
Coast Watchers Light con-
tains a list of the fallen coast-
watchers, and expressive
indeed is the line beneath their
names:
They watched and warned and
died that we may live.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Physicians and Surgeons
Can’t agree with the reasons
“Appendix” gives (B. 22/7/’59)
for the reluctance of doctors
to use their surgical knowledge.
Their university training is com-
parable with world standards
certainly, but opportunities to
practise their craft during the
compulsory 12 months’ resi-
dency in a hospital are prac-
tically non-existent.
In Sydney’s biggest hospital
students can, and usually do,
complete their year to become
in the eyes of the law qualified
medical practitioners (physi-
cians and surgeons) without
assisting even in the humblest
capacity at one operation. Most
students stay on for another
year as senior residents, but,
depending on the size of the
hospital with opportunities
more numerous at small hos-
pitals than at large ones —don’t
receive sufficient practice even
then.
Having completed eight
years of training and now
receiving £22 a week as a
resident, they can’t be blamed
for seeking better remuneration
as physician G.P.’s and are only
to be commended for passing-
on surgical cases they don’t
feel competent to handle.
The frustrating hospital situ-
ation is regrettable but under-
standable. Those students
interested in surgery can only
perfect it by using the hospital
theatres either as residents for
another two to four years or
by giving their services free as
an honorary, usually with a
higher degree obtained over-
seas after another five years’
work.
Such surgeons are of a very
high standard indeed, but their
lean financial gain is an
accepted fact, and they are
known as the “Shiny Pants
Brigade” by their confreres.
This system, however, results
in there being very little work
available for the junior resi-
dents in a sphere where prac-
tical knowledge is essential.
The new University of
N.S.W. recognises the need to
specialise as one method of
coping with the tremendous
growth in medical knowledge,
and proposes to grant only a
physician’s degree in the first
instance and to provide extra
training for students interested
in surgery.
Some European universities
already have two separate
courses, but their standard is
so low that graduates wishing
to practise in Australia must
do at least two years in one of
our hospitals in an attempt to
approximate to our training.
I also find it hard to vilify
the “no surgery, midwifery or
weekend” practice, as it seems
“The Professor's peckish today!"
to me to be merely an attempt
to keep the number of hours
worked within reasonable
limits —a situation not con-
demned but encouraged in the
case of union labor. —Terry
(N.S.W.).
Local-government Finance
Don’t know why “Pieter
Nuyts” is complaining (B.
15/7/*59). I didn’t “try to
break-down his case.’’ I sup-
ported it in the main, merely
pointing out that 1.-g. finance
figures are full of traps.
Despite “Pieter’s” assertion
of complete mastery, unless he
is or was actually an officer, I
still contend he can’t possibly
be a full bottle on this tricky
subject—and far be it from
me to assert that all officers
are, either.
I agree that the Assistant
Secretary for L.G. in W.A.
can be regarded as a com-
petent authority, but per-
sonally I could not go along
with much of his argument
which “Pieter” quotes.
Firstly, the figures are four
years old, and there have been
changes since then possibly
not enough to invalidate the
case by any means, but suffi-
cient to throw doubt on any
four-year-old review. Secondly,
capital-expenditure on plant is
not shown as an expenditure
on roads, when in fact it is,
and this expenditure over the
last four years must have been
enormous, resulting in advanc-
ing the loan-rate for all
authorities associated in the
spending.
These rates when levied must
go towards repayment of loans,
and nothing else. In some
cases nowadays, a board’s
loan-commitment is so high
that its loan-rate is bigger than
its general rate. It is fre-
quently not made clear in this
sort of report whether road-
rate only is being discussed, or
road plus loan, or even if all
combined rates are being
lumped together, completely
altering the picture in each
case.
It would be extremely rash
of me to attempt any kind of
general defence of 1.-g. spend-
ing, and I am fully aware of
its faults. I simply claim,
without fear of successful con-
tradiction, that it is impossible
to present any reasoned
analysis without a mass of
intricate detail of no interest to,
and frequently beyond the com-
prehension of, the average
reader.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
Commemorative Stamp-
Issues
The unattractive design of
the latest Australian stamp-
issue, the 3s. waratah, focuses
attention on the generally un-
satisfactory nature of our
commemoratives.
The waratah and its pre-
decessor the flannel-flower, as
part of a series on Australian
wildflowers, might have been
expected to be artistically
pleasing and realistic and not
the undistinguished blobs of
red and grey which in fact
they are.
To give a correct impression
of the glory of the waratah
why couldn’t the stamp have
been produced in two colors-
say, a red flower on a green,
leafy background? A similar
scheme could have been used
for the flannel-flower. But two-
color designs don’t appear to
have enjoyed official favor in
Australia, and our stamps have
suffered accordingly.
The P.M.G.’s Department
apparently believes that com-
memorative stamps issued at
two- or three-monthly intervals
are primarily revenue-producers
and that the reputation of
Australian stamps has been so
high that whatever the eventual
production so many hundreds
of thousands will be sold to
return so many millions to the
departmental coffers.
This attitude is unfortunate.
It means that no attempt is
made at artistic perfection, our
prestige overseas is lowered
and an invaluable opportunity
to provide accurate publicity
is lost.
For many years now Aus-
tralian stamps have been un-
favorably compared with issues
from Canada and N.Z., both
of which countries often place
orders with English printing
firms. But couldn’t our printers
do as well if they were given
an intelligent and meaningful
design with an adequate color-
scheme? — Plain Australian
(Vic.).
Arms and the Policeman
Lately at Winton (Q.) a
policeman, while checking his
revolver, accidentally shot him-
self and another man.
Fortunately for them, the
pistol was only a .22 calibre.
But the incident brought to
light the interesting news that
police in Queensland are
equipped with confiscated
weapons of any size or type
that happens to be on hand.
There is no standard police-
weapon, and apparently no
provision for testing the
weapons before they are issued.
Whether some of them and
their ammunition are service-
able is open to doubt. Further,
the police receive no training
at all in the use or care of
their oddly assorted firearms,
or in safety-precautions. There
is no official practice-range in
Queensland, and if a police-


f
m
mm
k
%
1
V
■
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
. (DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY]
man wants to train himself he
must buy his own ammunition.
There is even a story of a
young constable who, on a
pay-escort job, carried his (or
perhaps it was Thunderbolt’s)
revolver unloaded because he
didn’t know how to load it.
One conclusion to be drawn
from all this is that the wise
man keeps well out of range of
armed police, whether he has
anything on his conscience or
not. — Heresone (Q.).
Writing for TV
“Freelance,” in his com-
ments on TV’s insatiable
demand for material, its ad-
verse effect upon a principal
source of supply of fresh
creative writing— i.e., periodi-
cals—and the neglect of local
talent by Australian commer-
cial TV (B. 22/7/’59), de-
scribes all too truly the predica-
ment of the Australian author.
When the introduction of
TV to this country was under
discussion a few years ago
commercial interests strongly
supporting it countered sug-
gestions that the nation couldn’t
afford TV with reiterated claims
that it would greatly expand
opportunities for local writers
and performers. And, as
“Freelance” says, assurances
that locally written and pro-
duced material would be used
were given when the first hear-
ings of applications for com-
mercial TV-licences were held.
Television here has un-
deniably created many jobs,
but these are almost wholly
confined to technicians and
permanent studio-staff such as
programme - arrangers, an-
nouncers and dance-bands. By
and large, commercial TV in
Australia is relying on im-
ported material to fill the view-
ing hours—apart from telecasts
of sport and sponsored
sessions “borrowed” from
radio.
TV-authorities, both com-
mercial and non-commercial,
would probably defend their
attitude by asserting that such
material as is offering from
local writers doesn’t comply
with the requirements of TV.
If this is true —and to some
extent it must be —isn’t it in
the interests of Australian
TV that our writers be
encouraged to learn the tech-
nique of writing for this new
medium?
After all, American writers
started from scratch, and had
to feel their way—with the co-
operation of the networks
towards proficiency. Aus-
tralian writers can at least
familiarise themselves with the
methods of overseas TV-
writers, and some have taken
pains to do this.
But the biggest difficulty for
the Australian would-be TV-
author is to find out what Aus-
tralian TV-stations want. I
approached a couple of TV-
authorities for information on
playwriting, but got no more
than vague replies on preferred
subject-matter, size of cast,
settings and the layout of copy.
In the U.S., on the other hand,
full information is obtainable
from various agencies and TV-
authorities, even to rates paid
for features of different types
and lengths.
If the local writer is not
given proper guidance and
encouragement and, inci-
dentally, paid sufficient to make
TV-writing worth while
Australian TV will assuredly
find itself running short of
material. Many viewers have
tired already of the plethora of
alien stuff that incessantly
flickers across their screens;
more and more “live” local
matter will be demanded. It’s
up to the TV-stations to see
that it’s supplied.— Wusslean
(Vic.).
Errors of Novelists
In criticising novelists’ errors
(B. 15/7/’59) account should
be taken of whether the sub-
ject in which the mistake is
made is closely or only


remotely related to the theme
of the story.
If the story is about people
on the land in Tasmania, and
in one part of the narrative the
author mentions that someone
gets a passage across from the
mainland on a small schooner,
when the vessel named was in
fact a ketch, the error would,
in the circumstances, merit
little or no criticism. On the
other hand, if it were a sea
story, then the author ought
to be accurate about rigs and
other technical details.
Likewise, if a story concerns
gun-fighting or is closely con-
nected with it, then the author
ought to have an accurate
knowledge of the guns and
ammunition of the period, and
the right ways to use them —
he ought not, for example, to
have anything so silly as an
experienced gunfighter revers-
ing a loaded .45 revolver and
hitting somebody with the
butt. — Sea Rover (N.S.W.).
Penalties for Juveniles
It would be interesting to
know if “Pieter Nuyts” (B.
22/7/’59) was actually present
at the trial of the Westralian
lad whose punishment he
describes as “savage,” or if he
got his facts from a newspaper.
The judge who ordered the
suspension of the boy’s licence
for 15 years was able to
observe him at close quarters
and obtain expert psychiatric
advice; it is possible that he
considered the alternative
penalty of suspending the
licence for life, but extended
leniency in the hope that
maturity might bring a sense
of responsibility to enable the
man to handle with respect that
modern lethal weapon —■ a
driver’s licence.
A juvenile delinquent who
can appear a pitiable victim in
print might also be a potenti-
ally permanent menace to
society if not adequately
disciplined in the formative
years.—C. Clarke (Vic.).
“Duke” Tritton’s Writings
Assuming contributions to
the “0.F.M.” page must neces-
sarily express the 0.F.M., not
merely something to suit The
Bulletin Mind, and space to
criticise will be allowed, I
submit the following passage
from “Flamlet” as being appro-
priately critical of the short-
story, “Fire On” [by “Duke”
Tritton], Bulletin, 22/7/’59: —
Pol. This business is well ended.
My liege and Madam —to expostu-
late what majesty should be, what
duty is, why day is day, night night,
and time is time were nothing but
to waste night, day and time.
Therefore, since brevity is the
soul of wit, and tediousness the
limbs and outward flourishes, I
will be brief: Author, your yarn
is tediousness extended.
Henry James (N.S.W.)
The Royal Blind Society has
requested The Bulletin for
a copy of its recent serial
“Time Means Tucker” in order
“Are you SURE it's loaded with lettuce ?”
that it might be transcribed
into Braille. The story has
created a great deal of interest
among the blind, particularly
the older folk who remember
many of the places and people
mentioned in the text.
The Braille librarian of the
Royal Blind Society, Mrs. J.
Black, already has received
offers to transcribe “Time
Means Tucker,” by “Duke”
Tritton, from members of the
Braille Writers’ Association, a
body of voluntary workers
who, having been trained by
the Royal Blind Society, now
devote their leisure time to
transcribing books for blind
readers.
Some of the blind people
became interested on hearing a
critique of the serial during a
radio session and sought the
help of sighted friends in
following the instalments.
Finally came the request for a
Braille transcription in order
that they might read the story
at their leisure.
“It is seldom,” said Mr. K.
Morris, honorary secretary of
the Braille Writers’ Associ-
ation, “that a story creates
so much interest among the
blind. I have followed it with
great interest myself.”
Phyllis Burke,
Public-Relations Officer,
Royal Blind Society of N.S.W.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 551
Across
I—Weep1—Weep about her fruit. (6)
4 —Venerated Henry mooed. (8)
9—Rum boy blushing without tint or shade. (10)
10—Resolute thousand after some tree business. (4)
12— Happening when the sun goes down to tea. (5)
13 — This makes one Greek box brown. (7)
14 — Behave like the Volga boatman rumpus. (3)
15 — Rent is collected here, and put in. (6)
16—Be a little captious fish. (4)
18 —One who has taken orders. (3)
20 —Curve responsible for the car
smash. (3)
22 Score for Jolson on leave. (4)
23 — A tune of cloth put back into
working order. (6)
26 — It helps to bind a road sailor. (3)
27 Surge toff is out of bed. (7)
29 — Fritz, a famous conductor con-
veyance as taken from cash. (5)
30— Cultivate the cash-register. (4)
31 — Delivery to Ireland as
dancers. (10)
32 — This makes one European run
around madness. (8)
33 — Victory present to separate the
grain from the straw. (6)
Down
1 — A Frenchman who composed
business up over Ireland. (8)
2 Shunning Esmond when indulg-
ing in mastication. (9)
3 Waves to Catherine’s sporting
footwear. (6, 6)
5 Not in favor of a bit of
poetry. (6)
6 Part of the body; it was
changed. (5)
7 Change in mood, a mask being
responsible. (6)
8— Upset over trifles? (7)
11 —Vehicle with a vehicle’s age to
which is added one place for the
camel-train to pause. (12)
17 —Separate layer on an Acropolis
temple. (9)
19 —Poet responsible for a novel
complement to a nut. (7)
21 —South American bird-dog in the
role of piggy’s mother. (8)
24 The German’s mother to talk in
a very low tone. (6)
25 — Party current shown on a Peru-
vian sheep. (6)
28 —The pasha of “II Seraglio” is
miles up. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 550.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERMANUS CORNELIUS YOOR-
HOEVE late of C/o T 1 Power Station,
Cabramurra New South Wales. —TAlffc
NOTICE that GRACE FREDA VOOR-
HOEVE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4723 of 1958 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years .and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Macquarie Street Sydney by 12th
October, 19-59, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
.7. BIRNIE JACKSON & COATES, Soli-
citors, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGJIAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO GRAHAM ROBERT MARSHALL.—
TAKE NOTICE that JEAN MARSHALL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2067 of 1959 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 9th October
1959 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. MARSH
HARVEY & CROPPER, Solicitors, 28
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
LN - THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD ROY TUTTY late of 9
The Esplanade Hurstville in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that LAURIE HELEN TUTTY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1939 of
1959 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards. If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
16th October 1959 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from NOEL
DENNIS & WALTON, Solicitors, of 375
George Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM OR ARTHRITIS
Compounded from an old Indian Formula, STRATTONS RHEUMATIC
and ARTHRITIS POWDER contains no harmful drugs, will not affect
the heart and has successfully overcome the most difficult and
obstinate cases when all other treatments have failed. Persons in all
walks of life have found freedom from suffering, and hundreds of
grateful letters from satisfied users have been received by our
Consultant whose Treatment Advice is made available to you
FREE OF CHARGE as part of our Personalised Service which has
revolutionised the treatment of all types of Rheumatism and Arthritis
throughout the Commonwealth.
Four Weeks Treatment complete with Advice and Instructions and a
SPECIAL CONCESSION VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Ltd.
7 HOWARD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
(a nice touch: the surfers did
it, too) into the waves.
Though not satirical, this
ballet recalls the mood of
“Facade” in hilarious intention,
and is as Australian in expres-
sion as the other is French.
So much movement and color
on stage (possibly a more
formal discipline might be an
advantage) tended to distract
from the music, which was
fresh, with a “newness,” but
for a passing hint of hope and
glory, that belongs to the
theme.
This element of newness was
more marked in “The Brolga,”
a solo danced by Terri
Charlesworth, recently returned
from Europe, where its per-
formance in Moscow won for
her the Ulanova prize. In this
the dramatic quality of Pen-
berthy’s music is exciting, but
of greater interest is the way
in which he creates an impres-
sion of aboriginal sound and
rhythm without becoming
either imitative or primitive.
The actual brolga-dance
sequences were beautiful, and
more suggestive of the bird
itself than is the “Dying Swan.”
Make-up, however, does seem
a major problem when it comes
to aboriginal themes. No
matter how willing the imagi-
nation, it is difficult to suppress
a feeling that the dancers have
been oiled and dipped in cocoa.
The first half of the pro-
gramme was given to a charm-
ing and most creditable pro-
duction of “Giselle.”
H. D.-B.
“From Outer Space”
Will somebody from outer
space kindly step-up and
explain how this . levitation
business works? At Sydney
Empire John Calvert,
marooned on the desert-stage,
magically fluttered his fingers
and lo! a young lady who had
been reclining on a sofa gradu-
ally rose about 4ft., stretched
straight out like a frozen
sardine. Then Calvert got a
wooden hoop—slightly larger
than the ones that provoke, or
used to provoke, feats of hip-
wiggling endurance by little
girls—and passed it horizon-
tally over the girl. This was to
prove there were no
attached.
But was it proof? One
couldn’t say, any more than
one could account for the
working of the flying-saucer,
decked with glittering lights,
which swooped around the
darkened stage, occasionally
darting out over the orchestra.
Maybe one was too conscious
of the lovely Pilita; if her
'Voice hardly warrants the
extravagant billing “Sensa-
tional Spanish Singing Star”
she certainly has many other
qualities.
Calvert is something of a
telepathist, too. Will some-
body kindly step-up and . . .
no, never mind. If these things
were explained there wouldn’t
be any magic left, and people
wouldn’t go, and the dexterous
Mr. Calvert might have to
scuttle away in his Sea-Fox.
But the truth is, there’s some-
thing uncanny about the way
Calvert, with bandages
plastered over his eyes,
manages to identify objects
held aloft by the audience —
he told one man that his wallet
contained a tax-rebate form,
and specified the exact
amount. The man with the
wallet had been out to fool
Calvert, but he couldn't succeed
after that.
The rest of Calvert’s magic
is comparatively routine ; the
sort of stuff a personable and
skilled local entertainer puts
across. But before you get to
Calvert you have to sit through
a first-half of rather flat items,
in which George Wallace, jnr.,
is crudely half-funny; Beryl
Meekin adequate; Cherry
Minato, the dancer, neither
here nor there ; and Pilita sings
songs no better or worse than
most other crooners. The
only bright spot here is the
polished dancing of the
American Clark Brothers.
A. W.
<s> <& ►>
“The Quare Fellow”
Like his banned book
Borstal Boy, this play now
at the W.W.F. New Theatre,
Sydney—comes from Brendan
Behan’s prison period. Again
like the book, it is charged with
Behan’s peculiar generosity of
spirit, tough humor and
exuberant, unbuttoned skill in
writing.
The subject here is capital
punishment. Behan, however,
is not concerned with argu-
ments about it: rational dis-
cussion of such a subject would
probably appal him. He
simply shows us a prison with
its inmates and staff on the
eve of a hanging. This, he
seems to be saying, is what
you demand or condone. How
does it strike you?
It strikes you pretty hard,
though not as hard as it might.
Shrewdly, Behan never puts the
condemned man (called “the
quare fellow” in Irish prison-
slang) on stage; but he is
always there in the behavior
of the other prisoners, the
warders, and the hangman, the
thought of him pushing them
into self-revelation, sporadic
conflict and a sort of brutal,
safety-valve humor.
Character after character is
brought forward, holds our
interest for a while, then is
more-or-less dropped from the
action. The only situation that
holds Behan’s shifting spotlight
for long is that of the two
warders assigned to conduct the
quare fellow to the rope—one
a compassionate veteran with
no relish for the job ; the other
a greenhorn who has never
seen a “topping” and faints
when the trap is sprung.
A wonderful set of comic-
pathetic pictures of prison life
emerges ; but their total effect
is not quite equal to their sum.
They need a dramatic line to
fuse and fire them to greater
impact. The mounting tension
as the hanging approaches is
scarcely enough.
In the New Theatre’s large
and considerably uneven
cast one noticed especially
director Edmund Allison, who
vividly realised Behan’s affec-
tionate portrait of a shrewd
and comic old lag; John
Fegan's solid and convincing
account of the compassionate
warder; and Terry Rennie’s
bold and suitably disturbing
version of the hangman.
Films
“The Beat Generation”
The world of the beatniks —
those weird and wonderful ex-
hibitionists who have a yen
for a craziness in speech,
raiment and ideas, and who
suffer ecstasies of torture from
the failure of the “squares” to
understand them —is the back-
ground of this moderately
tense crime-drama. One beat-
nik, who expresses himself by
raping married women,
brazenly selects a detective-
sergeant’s wife as one of his
victims, and the main burden
of the film is in the closing of
the net around him. -
A secondary story about his
domestic upsets, and especially
his neurotic wife’s tantrums
before and after, does little
more than clutter-up the
action. The shots at the mixed-
up ones are cool, man, cool.
Ray Danton is the fellow who
takes a pride in “buzzing the
fuzz” between amorous ven-
tures, and Steve Cochrane is
a rather wooden cop.
At Sydney St. James.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BEEF UP NORTH
Ts “F.A.” (B. 3/6/’59) really
serious when he advo-
cates building a network of
railways in Queensland’s out-
back to help the beef-industry?
If so, how does he propose to
finance the scheme?
The estimated cost of recon-
structing the Townsville-Mt.
Isa line a distance of 602
miles —is £23 million, which is
approximately £38,000 a mile.
The Government sought a
loan from the World Bank for
this amount, but was rebuffed.
“F.A.’s” plan would require
at least an additional 500 or
600 miles of line at a cost at
least equal to that of the Mt.
Isa job. The Government is
unable to finance such an
undertaking from money
received from the Loan
Council, so raising such a sum
would be a big problem.
The loading from the Mt.
Isa mine will be large and
permanent, and will make the
investment a profitable one for
the railways, but there is no
guarantee that the cattle-
venture would even pay interest-
Australian fat lamb
producers will not be
too happy about future
export prospects unless
some unexpected in-
fluence on the London
market intervenes.
United Kingdom lamb
prices have been well
below those of last year
due mainly to large
increases of New
Zealand export lamb,
an increase in Austra-
lian export lamb pro-
duction and an increase
of mutton and lamb
production in the
United Kingdom.
A glimmer of hope
exists in as much as
lowered prices may
result in a general
preference for lamb
over other meats.
Lamb producers every-
where know the advan-
tages derived from
the use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings for
Castration, Tailing and
Marking.
Because there are no
open wounds, there is
considerably less risjk
of infection occasioned
by fly-strike.
charges, while, all the time, up-
keep would be heavy, Queens-
land has at least 3000 miles of
railways serving cattle-country,
and they show an annual deficit
of tens of thousands of pounds ;
so further extension seems to
be uneconomic.
“F.A.” quotes the Argentine
as an example of railway-
transport, but he should
remember that these lines
were laid over 50 years ago,
and cost a mere fraction of
present-day rates. Railways
had a monopoly in those days,
and if the Queensland Govern-
ment had been able to find
finance, lines would have been
“Just in time for a cuppa, fellers !”
extended throughout the west
of the State.
As railway-extensions are
too costly, and droving too
slow, road-transport is the
only solution. There’s a net-
work of stock-routes through-
out the cattle-country, many
carrying rough roads. Clear
all stock-routes to a chain wide,
and build good roads, especi-
ally on black soil, where today
tracks are impassable for days
and even weeks in wet weather.
This would enable road-trains,
consisting of a prime-mover
and three trailers, to carry a
total of 80 cattle or 800 sheep
at about 25 miles an hour to
the nearest railhead without
injury or loss.
Over the past few months
road-trains have shifted
thousands of cattle from the
Barkly Tableland to the
Channel Country and other
fattening areas in a few days,
where it used to take months
of droving. Motor semi-trailers
are a quick means of transport
for cattle, calves and pigs from
centres within a 150-mile
radius of Brisbane to the
abattoirs. Loaded in late
afternoon, they travel at night
and deliver their loads at the
meatworks in six hours. The
trip by rail takes 14 hours.
Pastoralists on the Cape
York Peninsula deliver their
cattle to the Cairns meatworks
by the motor landing-craft
Wewak, which carries 180-
head each trip. In six years,
26,000-head have been
delivered by this means, with
the loss of only 92. The
vessel’s owners are at present
negotiating a loan from the
Government for building a
ship to carry 500 a trip. Cattle-
men claim that stock sent by
sea hold their weight, while by
droving up to 3001 b. a beast is
lost.
Proposals have been made
for regular sailings between
Cairns and ports in the Gulf
and the Northern Territory.
During one week in June 1100-
head of cattle from the Terri-
tory were shipped at Darwin,
and seven days later were dis-
embarked at a Brisbane meat-
works. Another mob of 1050
from the West Kimberleys
were loaded in Derby (W.A.)
and reached the meatworks in
Townsville 10 days later.
Usually these cattle are driven
overland, and spend many
months on the journey.
Both shipments, intended for
the U.S. boneless-beef market,
landed in excellent condition.
With a strong demand for this
type of beef, many more ship-
ments from both quarters will
be brought to Queensland.
The northern beef-industry’s
worst trouble is getting the
meat to European markets
quickly. At present most
vessels load at Queensland
ports first and make their way
slowly to the southern ports,
so that up to two weeks may
elapse before the meat starts
on the real journey. Efforts
are being made to secure
regular sailings of vessels to
London via Torres Straits. By
this short route to London,
Queensland beef could compete
with any in the world, including
that from the Argentine.
Early in April the Towns-
ville Star loaded chilled beef
at Brisbane, Gladstone, Rock-
hampton and Townsville and
travelled the short route. When
displayed at London’s Smith-
field market the shipment was
the talk of the market for
quality and condition generally.
This report does not confirm
“F.A.’s” opinion that the
northern beef-industry is an
“irregular source of low-grade
meat.”
Bovine.
Polythene Mulch
“North”: Polythene - film
proved economical and prac-
tical for mulching during a
12-month trial on a straw-
berry-farm near Redland Bay,
south of Brisbane.
Its main advantage over
sawdust or tan-bark is better
control of weeds, but it also
saves water and brings
increased and earlier cropping,
with the yield spread over a
longer period. Wider cycles
were pqssible between water-
ings, and this extended yield
gave the grower high prices
at the beginning and end of
the season, even though there
was a glut at mid-season.
At the end of last season the
mulch was rolled-up and
stored until March, when it
was found in excellent condi-
tion to lay and use again.
Runners were planted through
holes made in the mulch, with
crowns and leaves protruding.
They may also be planted in
the usual way, with the mulch
laid on top and slits cut for
the plants to grow through.
This season planting was
two weeks later than usual,
but picking was a day earlier
because the mulch made a
difference of 15 days in time
of maturity and allowed fruit
to be marketed for early high
prices.
The initial cost of poly-
thene-film is higher than
ordinary types of mulch, but its
advantages outweigh this ; and,
as stated, the film can be
lifted when the season is
finished and stored until it’s
needed again.
Experiments prove that
black plastic film .0015in.
thick is best for temperate
districts and .002in. for
warmer areas.


SITUATION WANTED
Dutch-born Australian farmer with
excellent references, speaks very
good English, matric. education and
an agric. college training seeks
position near city or big town with
good education facilities.
Reply 803,
C/o Bulletin,
252 George Street,
SYDNEY.
KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Sheep-oh!
It seems Bill Howard (B.
27/5/’59) started-off with
the roughest team in the back-
country when he ventured into
shearing-contracting; still, I
wonder if his had anything on
the mob I once engaged in
Queensland.
I was asked to contract for
shearing 8000 wethers at about
two-weeks’ notice during the
busiest time of the season. Of
course, I did so, and at once
had to set about gathering a
team of 10 shearers and all
accompaniments.
Having some fairly good
connections (so I thought) in
various towns who could help
in raising men, I rang the lot,
and in a matter of three or four
days I had a full team.
By the end of the week I
had enough to start three or
four big burrawongs, so, unable
to resist the temptation, I
started culling. When I’d
finished I reckoned I had the
10 fastest and cleanest peeler-
offers in western Q.
Boy, was I in for a shock!
I arrived at the shed the
Sunday before kick-off to find
two shearers, a cook, presser
and seven rouseabouts. During
the night several other odd
bods turned-up, and by morn-
ing I found I had a classer,
three more shearers and a
couple of extra rousies, who
weren’t supposed to’ be going
anywhere, but who had a chit
from one of my agents giving
them the job, so those two had
the drop on me right from the
start —hangovers, too.
Unfortunately for them, and
fortunately for me, they were
a couple of minutes late for
work the second or third day.
However, I had to start with
only five men—late start, of
course —the usual swarm kept
them down in the huts until
well after smoke-oh.
We finished-up shearing a
grand-total of 300-odd sheep
that glorious first day — but
worse was to come.
The presser and a brace of
the shearers, all chequed-up
after a “full” day’s work, go
into town —only 40 mites —
in another bloke’s car after
tea, get drunk, smash her up
a mite out of town, get run-in
for the night, arrive next day
at smoke-oh, dob me in to
pay the taxi, and collapse in
the huts till breakfast next
morning.
That day also saw the arrival
of another two of my fastest
and cleanest. They had taken
the wrong road coming out of
town and had gone a further
100 mites —there’s only about
half-a-dozen signposts in the
last 10 mites to the place,
anyhow.
“Drink, Boss?”
“Not on yer life — never
touch the stinkin’ stuff!”
If I remember right they
didn’t have more than two or
three cartons of grog on board.
I just had to believe them at
that time and turn a blind eye.
We went on in this way for
about 10 days, until my
patience ran-out altogether.
The picker-ups were all piece-
pickers, the piece-pickers were
all wool-rollers, and not one of
the blankety-blanks among
them could throw a fleece
within radar-distance of the
wool-table.
Fair dinkum, the owner took
one look and cleared out to
Surfer’s for six months!
“Send the account when
you’re ready,” he said to me ;
and that’s about all he wanted
to see of his shearing. I don’t
blame him, either; about all I
wanted then was a .303 and
a dozen rounds.
As I said, my patience came
to an end, and so, luckily, did
one of my “gun” teams ; they
were and still are “guns,” too,
so I could afford to be very
expansive in my dealings with
my 10 “fastest and cleanest”
(never did get up to 10, some-
how). I had the doubtful
pleasure of firing the lot bar
the cook and a couple of others
before lunch. I may add that
after that we had an extremely
good shearing, and ended-up
getting a further couple of
thousand to do.
I wonder if Bill Howard
would give me the proper
“drum” on slipping-in a dry-
vote now and again. I always
seem to miss on that one when-
ever the opportunity comes-up.
M.G.
Conditions on
Dairyfarms
“Dix”: Conditions on some
N.S.W. North Coast dairy-
farms, as described lately in
the “S. M. Herald,” are much
the same as they were in many
places 50 years ago, as I know
from personal experience.
Dairy-herds, dairies and
milking-yards were then under
the supervision of the police.
A constable from the nearest
town used to make his round
on horseback once a year, with
perhaps a special call on some
particularly bad place to
ensure that the directions he
had given for a clean-up had
been carried out.
News of the beginning of
the annual inspection used to
be passed from farm to farm ;
and I can recall instances of
dairyfarmers driving cows they
suspected of having t.b. into
another paddock, where they’d
be out of sight till the police-
officer had completed his
inspection.
In those days, though, there
was no compensation for cattle
slaughtered because of sus-
pected disease; so there was
something in the farmers’
argument that they could not
afford to lose a couple of their
best milkers. Farmers argued,
too, that the police-officer had
no expert knowledge of stock-
disease and that his method
of running a suspected cow
round the paddock to see if it
would cough was rather hap-
hazard.
To that extent their case
was fairly well founded;
although a policeman usually
gave a suspected animal the
benefit of the doubt, rather
than become involved in an
argument with the owner. If
the cow was still alive on his
next visit, any disease it may
have had would either have
vanished or worsened, and so
the issue would then be
beyond doubt.
But even in those days some
farmers were scrupulously
clean, as I have no doubt
many are today. Not all the
so-called dirt the ordinary
city observer sees round a dairy
or milking-yard necessarily
means that the milk produced
there is liable to contamina-
tion. Dairies and milking-
yards are built in open spaces
with plenty of fresh air, so,
although manure may be
lying about and the yard may
be • muddy, such conditions
should not necessarily be des-
cribed as insanitary.
The condition of the milker’s
hands and of the cow’s udder
and teats matter most. In
summer a cow’s udder often
becomes severely sunburnt,
and her teats may break-out
in sores which bleed freely
when she is being milked by
hand. Unless the milker is
careful, blood will drop into
the bucket and possibly conta-
minate the milk.
Perhaps this problem is
more easily overcome with
milking-machines I cannot
speak at first-hand on that
point. But I certainly consider
that dairy- and herd-supervi-
sion in many country districts
is now almost non-existent,
and badly needs attention.
Humus
“Spin”: Probably there’s no
aspect of soil-fertility more
important or less understood
by the layman than humus.
Most seem to think that it’s
the same thing as loam.
It isn’t, of course. Loam is
a mixture of sand and fine
particles in roughly equal
proportions, white humus is a
dark substance, any shade
from brown to black, which
remains in the soil after
organic matter decays.
This organic matter can be
roots, stubble, manure, animal
bodies —anything which soil-
microbes can break-down.
The dark, colloidal substance
which results from this action
is humus. It is distributed
throughout the soil as a coat-
ing, keeping the particles
together and preventing sandy
soils from becoming too dry,
and clayey soils from bogging.
Humus can’t be replaced or
supplied by fertilisers —and
fertilisers applied where humus
is deficient are largely wasted,
whether in rich or poor soils.
Rich soil without humus be-
comes too closely compacted
for the roots to develop
properly, so they can’t use
what fertility there is ; in poor


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■JACKSON &
-OSUI-UVAM
PTYLTD .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
soils, where there is no humus,
the particles are too loose and
the fertilisers leach away.
The great fertile stretches of
the globe have been built-up
by humus supplied by grasses
falling-down and packing in
layers in which bacteria could
work. Ploughed-under, the
grasses would have done a
better job in infinitely less
time ; with modern machinery
the job’s even simpler —the
grasses can be chopped-up and
mixed with the soil at the
same time.
Straw and sawdust ploughed-
under will also produce humus,
although not as fast as greens.
It may pay to add a little
nitrogenous fertiliser to hasten
their decomposition.
Plastics in the
Cowshed
[By W. G. Whittlestone]
'T'he name plastic covers a
multitude of substances. I
suppose originally the term was
used for any material which
could be moulded into shape
with the aid of a mild amount
of heat. (I use the phrase
“mild amount of heat,” be-
cause otherwise metals would
qualify. A further proviso
would be that a plastic must
be organic. This excludes both
metals and ceramics.)
One of the first plastics to
be made was celluloid, which
is produced by treating cotton
fibres with nitric acid and then
mixing the product with a
plasticiser like camphor. Un-
fortunately, celluloid is very
inflammable, and is therefore
not very popular.
Cellulose-acetate was one of
the next plastics to come into
being. Made from acetic acid
and cotton fibres, it is rather
expensive and, though tried for
milking-machine components,
has been found unsatisfactory.
All the early plastics de-
pended on taking some sub-
stance made by Nature which
has a fibrous structure in
other words, which has mole-
cules made up of long chains.
With the development of
modern chemistry it has be-
come possible for man to
imitate these long molecules
and to make all sorts of
strange substances, some quite
unlike anything to be found in
Nature.
One very successful sub-
stance of this kind is poly-
vinyl-chloride, commonly
called P.V.C. In its natural
state, P.V.C. is a tough, horny
material. which melts readily,
and so is easily moulded. It
is called a thermoplastic be-
cause it softens When heated
and solidifies again on cooling.
An entirely different kind of
plastic, which is also an early
one, is bakelite. This is quite
different in its properties from
P.V.C. It is made from phenol
and formaldehyde, two com-
pounds which react together
to form a toffee-like resin. This
resin can be ground-up and
mixed with all sorts of things.
It can then be softened in a
hot die, and so will take on
any required shape, but if held
in a hot die long enough it
cures and will not soften with
heat any more.
So you see there are two
kinds of plastic, the P.V.C. -
type, which softens every time
it is heated and hardens again
when cooled, and the bakelite-
type, which softens the first
time it is heated, but after
curing will not soften when
heated again. This type is
called a thermo-setting resin.
I propose here to indicate
some of the applications of
plastics which are of interest
to- dairymen. First, the thermo-
plastics which are of interest
in the cowshed.
The hard, horny material
which is natural P.V.C. can be
plasticised to make it rubbery
and, if necessary, transparent.
The use of transparent “milk-
rubbers” on the milking-
machine has become popular
in the last few years because
such material is cheaper than
rubber.
Frankly, I am not very keen
on the use of these transparent
“rubbers,”* because they give
the impression of milk flowing
in the transparent tube at the
end-point of milking, so a mean
cocky is likely to leave the cups
on too long, waiting for that
last drop of milk to be
squeezed out of the cow. As a
matter of fact, I know of one
milking-machine company
which withdrew the use of
clear-plastic tubing instead of
rubbers, because some farmers
left the cups on too long when
they could see the milk surging
about in the dropper-tube.
However, it is a good idea
to use a clear plastic for the
pulsator-tubes, because any
broken inflations can be im-
mediately detected.
Similarly, it’s good to have
a clear-plastic tube for the
connection between the spit-
chamber of the releaser and
the releaser-pulsator, because
it makes it easy to detect any
flooding of the releaser, while
a clear plastic air-line leading
to the vacuum-tank shows any
faults in the releaser.
Thus, clear, soft P.V.C.-
tubing and hard, clear-plastic
tubing can be useful on the
milking-machine.
Another recent application
of thermoplastics is to the
making of teat-cups. These
new cups, which are manufac-
tured in New Zealand, have a
thermoplastic case and a
synthetic - rubber inflation,
which is sealed to the case. The
whole unit has a life of one
year, and the idea is that, once
a year, you buy a complete
set of teat-cups for your
machine and throw away the
old ones. This is excellent
hvgienically, and also means
that the milking-machine is
always fitted with new cups.
Another thermoplastic which
is important in modern life is
polythene. Pioneered by 1.C.1.,
this material resists corrosion
and is easily moulded. In its
original form it softened in
hot water, but the latest types
of polythene do not soften
even in boiling water. I have
found from experiment that
this new or “linear” poly-
ethylene makes an excellent
material for milk-droppers, air-
lines and so forth on the milk-
ing-machine. It can be fabri-
cated by blow-moulding,
which consists of blowing the
plastic up like a bubble inside
a metal die of the required
shape. By this method it’s
possible to make vacuum-
tanks and releasers from poly?
ethylene, which never corrodes,
resists milk-stone formation,
and bounces when dropped,
instead of denting like copper.
The thermo-setting com-
pounds also have possibilities
on the milking - machine;
bakelite has been used very
successfully for some years for
the manufacture of a vacuum-
regulator for them. It is cheap,
free from corrosion and readily
fabricated. Melamine has also
been used. It is stable in the
presence of milk, and has been
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(30/7/’59)
Moderate to good rains are indicated in a large part
of Queensland during August, although the Curtis division,
Central Coast and Far West should be confined to light
rain. The best rains should occur in the south-west and
North Coast. A good season should be experienced in much
of the State.
N.S.W. should receive moderate to good rains during
August, although the South Coast and Far West should
be restricted to light rain. The best rains are indicated on
the South-west Slopes and Riverina. Well-distributed rains
for the balance of the year should ensure a good season.
Good general rains are indicated in Victoria during
August, with the heaviest rains occurring in the Central
Division, North-east and Western Divisions, with flooding
in the southern half of the State. Good rains should con-
tinue for the balance of the year.
The agricultural areas of S.A. should receive good
rains during August, although the Murray Valley and West
Coast should have only light to moderate rain. Rainfall
likely to be poor in the north interior.
Good rains should be received in the agricultural areas
of Western Australia during August, although rainfall may
be light and patchy elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
used in the manufacture of a
milk-flow indicator. Both
these materials, however, are
more-or-less opaque. What is
needed is a clear plastic which
is stable mechanically. There
are new compounds on the
way which could be used for
the making of milking-machine
fittings handling milk, and
which, being transparent, make
it possible to check the hygiene
of the machine.
A well-known milking-
machine company makes both
magnetic and pneumatic pul-
sators from bakelite, and these
have proved satisfactory in
standing-up to wear and tear
on the farm. So there seems
to be no good reason why these
newer materials should not be
used more extensively.
Since substances like P.V.C.,
polyethylene and bakelite have
been used successfully on the
milking-machine with modern
methods and materials, I would
like to suggest that the releaser
and vacuum-tank should be
blow-moulded from linear
polyethylene and that all milk-
pipes and air-line connections
should be injection-moulded
from polyethylene, and the air-
lines themselves, including the
dropper-tube, made from poly-
ethylene . or “koralastic.”
To a limited extent, claw-
pieces have been made in
nylon. This is expensive, so
I think polyethylene could be
successfully used for claw-
pieces at a much lower cost.
The entire pulsator-stem could
be made basically of thermo-
plastic material with only a
few metal parts. Where a
farmer uses circulation-clean-
ing methods, all lines and teat-
cup jetters in the bails might be
made of plastic materials.
Progress an the N.T.
“N.T.”: A new concept for
beef-cattle raising in the
Northern Territory may result
from feeding-trials now being
carried out by the N.T.
Administration at the Plant
Industry Branch’s experimen-
farm at Beatrice Hill, 42 miles
from Darwin.
About 100 acres of rice were
grown at the farm last season,
and now a small herd of cattle
are being grazed on the stubble.
Similar experiments in the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area
have been successful, but here
in the Territory the result could
be more sweeping, for there
are 510,000 acres of rich
black-soil sub-coastal plains
suitable for rice-growing com-
bined with cattle-fattening.
The N.T. Administration
believes the combination would
be more economic than agri-
culture alone, even though
long-grain rice, favored by the
Asian market, has yielded an
average of 30cwt. per acre at
nearby Humpty Doo.
Grazing-trials with buffaloes
will be carried out later, for
the export of tamed buffs to
Hong Kong already promises
to be a sizeable industry.
The sub-coastal plains east
of Darwin are self-irrigated by
a network of rivers during the
December-June period owing
to wet-season rains. With
pumping, dry-season crops of
rice can be grown. Before
planting, the land is graded,
ploughed and contour-banked
into paddies.
There are also to be cattle-
feeding trials at Marrakai,
higher up the Adelaide River,
on a different soil-type, classi-
fied as “Marrakai soil,” which
has, like the sub-coastal plain,
already produced large experi-
mental crops of rice success-
fully. There are 500,000 acres
of this soil, mainly on the
Adelaide, Margaret, Mary and
McKinlay Rivers.
The Marrakai experiment-
station itself is surrounded by
a 7000-acre ' treeless red-soil
plain, part of 150,000 acres
that can be irrigated from the
permanently flowing Adelaide
River.
In the wet-season the sub-
coastal plains are 2ft. under
water, but there is plenty of
high country intersecting the
flooded areas. - About half-a-
million buffaloes at present
roam this country. At the
Beatrice Hill experiment-farm
I recently saw a small mob
of tamed buffs being hand-fed
with rice-straw. They were
as docile as dairy-cattle.
Farmers along the Katherine
River, 220 miles south of
Darwin, hitherto dependent
upon peanut-growing, are now
cashing-in on the big demand
for baled fodder for the Asian
cattle - trade. Peanut - hay,
Townsville - lucerne - buffel-
grass mixture and cowpea-
peanut-hay are being produced,
and this is revolutionising
farming-methods in the Terri-
tory. Farmers are suddenly
taking a great interest in silage
and fodder - conservation
demonstrations being con-
ducted by N.T. Administration
and C.5.1.R.0.
All in all, it adds-up to con-
vincing evidence that the
Territory is not the desert it
was once thought to be.
Quiet Pigs
“JJ.A.”: Many pig-raisers
daren’t go into the same yard
as a sow with young. If the
sow has difficulty there’s no
way of giving help, and there’s
little that can be done for the
piglets. Yet, of all domestic
animals, the pig is the most
intelligent and will respond
readily to proper treatment.
Right from the first treat a
sow with respect and kindness.
Never hit her or ill-treat her. A
pat on the back or a stroke of
the neck at feedtime makes her
a real pet. If you can’t walk-
up to her in an open paddock
and call her and pat her, then
she’s wild and badly trained.
A quiet sow knows she and
her young will not be hurt;
and that quietness will be re-
paid in good, solid pork—and
pork’s real money. A sow that
savages you can cost real
money, too!
Poultry Points
“Umbango”: Mating cock-
birds with young pullets often
results in low fertility. It’s the
same with older breeding-birds
—the older they are, the lower
fertility is likely to be. Chicks
from matings of second-year or
older birds cost more to pro-
duce.
A point often overlooked
when using old males is that
their long, spurs may injure
hens and so hinder mating. It’s
as well to trim them.
Hay-racks
“Big Billy”: When hay is
fed-out in paddocks where the
soil is heavy or poorly drained
the herd may cut-up tracks,
gateways and pasture, but this
can be avoided by placing
feed-racks in the race of a
special enclosure near the
sheds.
The lay-out must be planned
so that tractors and other heavy
implements are not needed for
feeding-out, and so stock can
have access to the racks from
both sides at once. Serviceable
racks can be made from timber
or, if a more permanent job is
needed, from lin. galvanised-
piping and 6in. heavy-gauge
netting. A timber bin placed
beneath the racks forces cows
to stand facing inwards to
reach the hay and prevents
belligerent animals from
sheltering lengthways under the
rack to the disadvantage of
others. It also prevents hay
being dropped on the ground
and spoilt. The ideal rack-
space is 2ft. a cow.
Racks are best set-up on
concrete, because it’s easier to
clean of manure than metalled
strips, which are sometimes
used. A lean-to roof should
be placed to give shelter from
prevailing winds, leaving the
north side open to the sun.
Farm Hints
“Ino”: If iron is needed for
citrus-trees, hammer two iron
nails through the stem right
at the butt.
“Metax”: Avoid switching
all electrical appliances full-on
at the same time. Damage to
wiring at terminals and other
weak points is most likely
when full - load or over-
load current is flowing. Once
started, this damage will grow
worse even when the current is
reduced, and it may lead to
a complete breakdown or cause
a fire.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Any information (preferably off
the beaten track) connected with
the Melbourne Cup. Also, any
photos or other pictures connected
with the Cup; any newspaper
special editions, clippings from
newspapers, or even any references
to articles and the like (with dates);
any personal Cup reminiscences —in
fact, anything of the kind that
might help in compiling a Mel-
bourne Cup History. All care, of
course, will be taken of anything
1ent.—6862.
Any copies of the N.S.W.
“Bookstall Series” publications? —
6859.
A Life of Lilian Baylis —not the
one by Sybil and Russell Thorn-
dike—6BsB.
Copy of The Bulletin containing
an article on “The While Scourge.”
The article appeared somewhere
around 1910. —6860.
Poetical Works of James Thomson
(8.V.), ed. Dobell.—6B6l.
Information Supplied
“Max”: Where to get a small
grist-mill (B. 29/7/’59)? Suppliers
of gear and tools used by poultry-
farmers usually slock small hand-
mills for grinding wheat for
chickens. These mills screw on to
a bench or table; they used to cost
about 40s. Failing one of these,
the excellent coffee-grinders for
home-use, which have become so
popular with the increase in coffee-
drinking, would do the work on a
small scale. Power-grinders, for
work on a bigger scale, would be
fairly costly.
Information Sought
Which is grammatically correct —
“two first” or “first two”?
Of this expression James Mur-
doch says: “The only argument
against the use of ‘two first’ and
in favor of substituting ‘first two,’
so far as I can recollect, is this —
in the nature of things, there can
be only ‘one first’ and ‘one last’
in any series of things. But is it
true that there.can never be more
than ‘one first’ and ‘one last’?
If it be so, then the adjective ‘first’
and ‘last" must always be of the
singular number, and can never
agree with nouns in the plural.
We are told that ‘the first years’ of
a lawyer’s practice are seldom very
lucrative; examples like this occur
everywhere in all our standard
writers ... we should generally
say ‘two first,’ ‘two last,’ etc., rather
than ‘first two,’ ‘last two,’ etc.
This, 1 say, should generally be the
order of the words. Yet there are
some cases in which it seems prefer-
able to reverse the order.”
* * * *
Is there any difference between
a ballad and a ballade ? If so,
what, and details of origins ?
The two have no connection,
either in literature or music. In
literature, ballad is the name given
to a type of popular narrative-
poetry, usually but not necessarily
of anonymous authorship, record-
ing notable events. It is common
to almost every literature. Apart
from modern revivals, English
ballad-literature comprises a con-
siderable body of early poems, half-
lyrical, half-epic, narrating deeds of
prowess or tales of love, usually
rugged in diction and versification,
but vigorous and often strikingly
poetical. Most of them were handed
down by oral tradition and sung
about the country by itinerant
minstrels. On the other hand, the
ballade is a poem of fixed form
consisting of three (sometimes five)
stanzas of an equal number of
lines of equal length, concluded by
an envoy, or final half-stanza.
Each stanza must contain the same
rhymes in the same order, the envoy
reproducing the rhyme-scheme of
the latter half of each stanza; and
the last line of every stanza and
of the envoy is the same, forming
a refrain. The ballade was a
common form in 15th-century
French literature, those of Villon
being immortal. It has been skil-
fully used in English by Austin
Dobson, W. E. Henley, G. K.
Chesterton and others. In music
the ballad is a sentimental song;
the ballade was invented by Chopin
(who composed four splendid
examples of the form), and is a
long-short piece for instrument
which has the effect of a narrative.
* ♦ * *
(1) How to preserve green ginger ?
(2) How to crystallise it ?
(1) It’s important that the ginger
is young and has grown quickly;
matured roots are too fibrous.
Wash well and scrape-off the outer
skin. Place in cold water and boil
gently until the ginger can be pierced
with a steel knitting-needle. Trans-
fer to a strong sugar syrup made
from Boz. sugar boiled in lpt. water
and allowed to cool a little. Boil
gently for 30min. Repeat this twice
more, adding more sugar each time
to compensate for sugar-absorption
by the ginger. Spread-out on paper
to drain. (2) When fairly dry,
brush with glycerine and water in
equal quantities, roll in sugar and
pack away in a cool place. The
glycerine-glaze is not necessary, and
some people find it disagreeable.
Make sure you are growing the
correct variety of ginger.
* * * *
Information on the sowing of
subterranean-clover ?
Sow seed in March or April.
Break the surface-soil with pasture-
harrow, rigid-tyne or disk-
cultivator. Sow seed and manure
through a drill or broadcast it, but
the drill is preferable, as it places
seed and manure close together
in the soil. On light soils both
operations may be done at the same
time with the combine. When sown
with oats or pasture-mixtures, mix
clover-seed and manure, and half-
fill the manure-box to reduce the
tendency of the seed to separate
itself from the manure. The grass-
seeds or oats are sown through the
seed-box. In districts of good rain-
fall it’s customary to increase the
rate of seeding beyond the usual
21b. per acre, sometimes from 41b.
to 61b., with a reduced sowing of
perennial rye-grass to 101 b. or even
51b. per acre. Mix seed and manure
as required and sow within two
hours. If the super, is quite dry
little damage to the seed will result.
* * * *
When were the Junior Farmers’
Clubs in N.S.W. formed, and what
are their principal activities ?
In 1927 unanimous approval was
given by a representative conference
■to the formation of Junior Farmers’
Clubs in N.S.W. Towards the end
of 1928 the Education Department
appointed three organisers to intro-
duce the movement; a State
Council was formed, comprising
representatives of the departments
of Education and Agriculture, the
R.A.S., several of the leading banks,
farmers’ organisations and club
district councils. First club to be
formed was at Glen Innes, in 1928.
At the end of 1954 there were 278
clubs with more than 7500 members
engaged in 34 definite projects.
Official staff includes a State
organiser and eight area and 15
district supervisors. The State
advisory council conducts an annual
conference and 25 State champion-
ship competitions, as well as mak-
ing it possible for a party of junior
farmers to participate in the Royal
Show. The council also handles
the staging of a non-competitive
combined clubs’ Royal Show
exhibit, and maintains a school of
instruction at the Hawkesbury
Agricultural College.
* * * *
Brief information an the French
composer Erik Satie ?
Born in 1866, Satie worked for
a time as a cafe pianist, and at 39
became a pupil of Roussel and
d’lndy. He tended to influence
younger composers towards a cool,
clear style and away from the lush-
ness sometimes associated with
impressionism. His piano-solos and
duets mostly have eccentric titles—
e.g., “Three Pear Shaped Pieces”;
several of these have been orches-
trated by Poulenc and others. He
also wrote ballets, including
“Relache”' (word displayed by
French theatres when they are
closed), operettas, a mass (“Messe
des pauvres”) and the symphonic
drama “Socrates.” Towards the
end of his life a group of disciples,
including Desormieres and Sauguet,
became known as the Arcueil
School —named from the Paris
suburb where Satie lived.
* * * *
How did God’s Sabbath, the
seventh day of the week, come to
be changed to Sunday, the first day ?
One view is that the early
Christians, hostile to the Jews and
their Sabbath, adopted Sunday
(which, as “the Sun’s Day,” was
the first day of the week in the
Roman calendar) as the Christian
Sabbath. Though the New Testa-
ment does not expressly state that
the first day of the week was to
be kept as the Sabbath in place of
the seventh, we do “know that from
the very beginning Christians met
for worship each week on the day
on which Christ rose from the
dead. .This is confirmed by Acts,
Paul and Justin Martyr. The day
of the Resurrection was thus
adopted as the Christian Sabbath,
* * * *
(1) From whom did Bill Squires
win the Australian heavyweight
title ? (2) Was Squires a really good
fighter ?
(1) Bill Squires won the Austra-
lian heavyweight title when he


Missing Friend
Re ARCHIBALD WALTER ALFRED
HARRISON DECEASED
The children (FRANK and LAURIE)
of ROSE and THOMAS HARRISON
(brother of the abovenamed deceased),
at one time living in Woodlands Avenue,
Ilford, Essex, England, and who emi-
grated to Australia (Sydney or Victoria)
in about 1898, are required to com-
municate with MESSRS. STAPLEY &
CO., Solicitors, of 201-3, High Street
North, East Ham, London, E. 6, England.
k.o.’d the former holder, Tim
Murphy, in three rounds at Mel-
bourne Cyclorama on April 28,
1906. He lost it when Bill Lang
k.o.’d him in the 17th round of
a 20-round bout at Sydney Stadium
on February 3, 1909. (2) Yes,
Squires was a good one, though
not perhaps in the class of world
champions like Johnson and Burns.
When he defeated Dick Kernick in
seven rounds in Melbourne in
September, 1905, The Bulletin
said of him (14/9/’O5) that Squires
was “much the best man who has
put in an appearance in this part
of the world for many a long
day.”
* * * *
Biographical details of William
Cowper, one-time Dean of Sydney ?
Cowper was born at Sydney on
July 3, 1810, and educated by his
father and at Oxford, where he
graduated B.A. in 1833 and M.A.
in 1835. Returning to Australia
in 1836 he became chaplain to
the Australian Agricultural Com-
pany at Port Stephens for 20 years
and, for six months in 1856,
Principal of Moore College, Sydney.
He later took charge of the new
parish in Glebe where the “Work-
ing Man’s Church,” subsequently
St. Barnabas’s, was established. In
1858 he succeeded his father at
St. Phillip’s Church, Sydney, and
in the same year was appointed
an archdeacon and Dean of Sydney.
He acted several times as commis-
sary for Bishops Barker and Barry
during their absence in England,
and showed much administrative
ability. In 1888 he published
Episcopate of the Right Reverend
Frederic Barker, D.D., and soon
after his death on June 14, 1902,
his Autobiography and Remin-
iscences appeared.
* * * *
How to cure goatskins so as to
turn them into bedside-rugs ?
Skins should be fresh and dry.
Remove all flesh-scraps and ragged
edges, and wash well in soapy
water with a little borax added.
Scouring can be done on a sloping
table. Pour the warm soapy water
over both sides of the skins and
scrub with a brush, later rinsing
with water of the same tempera-
ture. To tan, mix lib. powdered
alum and lib. salt and rub into
the flesh-sides of the skins. Fold
down the centre, leave until the
following day and repeat; repeat
on the third day, and hang up to
dry. As they dry, pull and twist
them to keep them pliable. Before
the skins are quite dry, tack-out on
boards and go over the flesh-side
with a pumice-stone or emery-
paper. If the skins seem hard,
finish by rubbing in neatsfoot-oil
with a blunt piece of stick. Brush-
out the hair-side and comb away
knots, etc. If you want to line
the mats, treat the material used
with a strong insecticide.
Brief Answers
L.J.S.: There is a comprehensive
article on A. G. Stephens in the
Australian Encyclopcedia, pub.
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89
Castlereagh Street, Sydney... .L.D.:
The Law Officers, for Scotland are
the _ Lord Advocate and the
Solicitor-General. The Lord Advo-
cate is in administrative control of
two _ departments: the Lord Advo-
cate’s- Department, which is respon-
sible for drafting Scottish legisla-
tion, providing legal advice on
Scottish questions for other depart-
ments and assisting the Scottish Law
Officers in certain of their legal
duties; and the Crown Office, which
exercises the powers of the Lord
Advocate in relation to criminal
proceedings Master 8.K.: He
was born in England, came to N.Z.
at an early age, then lived in Aus-
tralia for some years; he has lately
returned to N.Z. His most notable
work is a sequence of poems called
Christopher Columbus; a new book
of his verse is shortly to be pub-
lished by Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., Sydney E.S.: Write to the
University of Melbourne, Carlton,
N. 3, Victoria R.G.McI.: Since
rennet is prepared from the
stomachs of young calves it’s not
possible for the home cheesemaker
to undertake this process. Usual
form, readily available for home
use, is junket-tablets sold in phials
by grocers. In country towns,
when cheese was made in the home,
liquid rennet in bottles was sold by
grocers for use on the farm; any
large general store in your district
catering for country customers may
still keep it. If not now available,
drop a line to the Department of
Agriculture, Box 36, G.P.0.,
Sydney... .A.J.G.: Sorry, unable
to advise you on the copyrights.
Your best course would be to write
to Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, who
would probably be able to help
you ... .F.H.S.: “Jumpers” or
“skippers” are the maggots or
larvae of the cheese- or ham-fly
(Piophila casei). In earlier times
infestation with this pest was
thought to show superior quality,
since the flies are not attracted to
new or green cheese. “Jumper
cheese” indicated more maturity.
Today, such infestation is regarded
as negligence, and infested cheese
is largely a thing of the past. Such
cheese may not be deleterious to
health, but it is considered to be
unwholesome when judged by
modern standards of hygiene, as,
technically, it is flyblown.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“If We get lost , will they, send a St. Bernard out after us ?”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
0.M.: Like a centipede, it crawls
along A.C.: The trick-ending
tricked no one L.K.: Principal
fault is the unnecessarily extended
introduction. Get straight into the
story... .F.JJ.: Say it in prose.
G.T.: Nothing new about the
old retired sea-cap’n C.H.: It
is, of course, a variant on the man-
in-space theme; but it seems a bit
improbable K. 8.: Yes, but if
you listen to people talking you’ll
rarely find such outpourings of
verbosity... .D.D.: Try to describe
the things with which you are
familiar.... M.V.: Come again.
. ...A.A.L.: The ghouls and vam-
pires will be returned—or will
return —at the next full-moon
R.L.: There’s promise in it....
P.R.: Why? ....J.M.R.: We got
as far as “Life is just like racing”
—then we took - off V.A.:
“Hands” is moving in the right
direction, but you’re not saying
anything very original about nail-
polish .... Garth: None up....
M.P.: “Something Stirs,” if you
are young, may be something
stirring... .A.M.: It needs simpli-
fying... .8.C.F.: Sorry about the
brumbies... .D.1.F.: Best thing you
can do with that shipboard romance
is break it... .A.J.L.: “Gorge-ward
they gazed” is a truly terrible line.
....A.M.H.: You might be able
to justify the “serf,” but he looks
as if he were put there only to
rhyme with “turf” C. 8.: The
incident is more interesting than
the verse C.T.: Try writing a
poem and leaving yourself out of
it. The love-poem is
rather nice, but why should it
need a “giant crew” to “lay the
weary wanderer to rest”?
K.J.F.: “The Country” is well
done as an essay but too long for
us to consider H.W.: No place
here for that sort of article
G.F.G.: Bush pleasant ; style
antiquated Banana: It’s a
natural mistake, but as a matter
of fact the poet you criticise lived
for quite a while in the N.T. and
knows what he’s talking about.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Representatives of many churches
were guests at the reception, set in the
flower-decorated reception-room of the
Town Hall, given by the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress (Sir Frederick and
Lady Thomas), for the Right Rev.
Cuthbert Bardsley, Lord Bishop of
Coventry. Prominent among these were
the Archbishop of Melbourne Dr. Frank
Woods (with Mrs. Woods), and Arch-
bishop Booth, with Mrs. J. J. Booth.
Guests included Sir Frank Kingsley
Norris and Lady Norris, Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Hobbil Cole, Dr. and Mrs. Leon
Jona, Mrs. G. R. Nicholas, Sir Harold
Gengoult Smith, Cr. Douglas Cox and
Mrs. Cox, Cr. Bernard Evans, Cr. and
Mrs. John Williams, Mrs. Leo Curtis,
Mrs. lan Beaurepaire and Mrs. Lance
Reichstein.
. ☆ ☆ ☆
Guest-of-honor at the late-afternoon
party given by the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra Subscribers Committee at
Majella, St. Kilda Road, were American
soprano Mattiwilda Dobbs and con-
ductor Kurt Woess. Mattiwilda, wear-
ing a lovely frock and jacket of deep-
cream French-lace, was accompanied by
her husband, Bengt Janzon. Among
the guests (who were received by Mrs.
Guy Bakewell) were Mr. and Mrs. Ewart
Chappie, Swedish Vice-Consul Thor
Lundgren and Mrs. Lundgren, Professor
and Mrs. Cochrane (she is pianist Bunty
Schofield), Dr. W. Braun (of the U.S.
Consulate), Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Menzies and Dr. John O’Donoghue.
V #
In a letter to this Letter, a Sydney
friend who had attended her concerts
mentioned, inter alia, “the heavenly
manna of Mattiwilda Dobbs s perfect
coloratura voice, her wonderful concert-
platform presence,” and he described
her as “a lovely little thing by whom
you are reminded at odd times, and
certainly by her almost-regal walk to the
piano, of the Queen.” We in Melbourne
couldn’t agree with him more, for at her
first concert in the Town Hall, when
she appeared with the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra, she looked at least
a fairytale princess. Her white tulle
gown had layers of tulle grouped into
three tiers, the strapless bodice heavily
encrusted with sparkling crystal beads.
Not a chair creaked (they often do in
the Town Hall) and all coughs were
tightly suppressed as Mattiwilda
gloriously sang Gliere's Concerto for
Coloratura Soprano and Orchestra—an
exacting work, with one lone vowel in
place of words. It was artistic singing
which Melbourne will long remember.
Christ Church, South Yarra, was
decorated with white flowers for the
marriage of Elizabeth Rosina, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs." W. H. Stocks,
0 f Wonga Park, with Frederick John
Lithgow. The bride’s long-sleeved, silk-
embroidered white satin frock featured a
portrait-neckline and bouffant skirt with
centre-back fullness. A coronet of satin
and pearls held her full-length tulle veil,
;> nd she carried a bouquet of white
hyacinths and gardenias. The four pretty
’maids who attended her—Rosalind
Deborah Jiu Graham aod
y.ola Meeks-wore full-length gowns of
white pure-silk-shantung with deep-pink
satin bows catching the centre-back folds
of the skirts Thejr hair carri< , d half _
circlets of matching-pink satin bows and
the bouquets were of deep-pink camellias.
The b] .^ degroom who is the on | y son
Mrs p B. Lithgow, of Flowerdale,
Co|dstream> and , he |ate Mr L i thgo w,
j iac j Chester Nevett as best man.
Groomsmen were Gavin Casey, Michael
Harman and Douglas Faulkner. The
reception was at Menzies’ Hotel. ,
'
Helen Louise, elder daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. S. C. Summers, of Caulfield, is
wearing a solitaire-diamond ring, emblem
of her engagement to Val Arthur, elder
son of Mr. and Mrs. V. Foreman, of
East Bentleigh. Helen, who was edu-
cated at St. Michael’s C. of E. Girls’
Grammar School, is receptionist of a
large city firm. Val, an old Melburnian,
is a commercial-photographer, and this
photo of his fiancee was taken by him.
The startling decor of “The Embers,”
Melbourne’s newest nightclub, makes it
look like a scene from Dante’s
“’lnferno.” Guests arriving for its
opening, which was in aid of the Lady
Forster Free Kindergarten, were greeted
with flames leaping from the barbecue
on one side of the dance-floor. Chairs
and tables are black and red, and the
waitresses (all students earning pocket-
money) wear either black or red sweaters
and skirts and black stockings, while
members of the orchestra wear red
jackets. Mrs. John Warne, president of
the Kindergarten Committee, with her
husband, received the guests, she wearing
a short jade-green satin frock. Mrs.
Sam Howes, a committee-member, chose
a frock of turquoise-blue satin cut on
Empire-lines. Others noted at the open-
ing were Lieut.-Commander and Mrs.
Peter Cooper (her frock of hyacinth-
blue flower-patterned taffeta), Mr. and
Mrs. Peter Lynch (the latter wearing a
draped sheath-frock of black French-
crepe), Mrs. Dick Doyle (in aqua-blue
lace frock and pale-blue taffeta coat
embroidered in pearls and sequins),
Mrs. John Gough (her gown of gold-
striped lime-green organza), Anne Wilton
(black velvet), Barbara Challingsworth
(her short frock of claret-red satin), Mr.
and Mrs. lan Mcßoberts, Dr. and Mrs.
Robert Whyllie, the Robert Gardiners
and Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Sayers.
☆ ☆ *
Large branches of pink blossom
decorated the reception-rooms of the
Parkville home of Mrs. S. P. Kroussos
for the champagne-luncheon party held
to raise funds for the Royal Melbourne
Hospital almoner-fund. The president
of the Almoner Auxiliary, Mrs. W. K.
Burnside, wearing a beech-brown tweed
suit and a smart matching hat, received
the guests. They included the Lady
Mayoress (Lady Thomas), who wore with
her mink-trimmed suit of blue-grey-and-
charcoal woven-tweed ensemble a tiny
blue-grey felt cap. Persian-lamb trimmed
the jacket of the steel-grey suit chosen by
Mrs. Kroussos, who was assisted with
the' entertaining by her sister, Mrs. Z.
Economou, and sister-in-law Mrs. G.
Sheppard. Guests included Mrs. R. W.
Chambers (president of the hospital
auxiliaries), Lady Selleck, Lady Warner
(her mink-curvette matched her mink-
jacket), Lady Teasdale, Lady Coates,
Mrs. Jack Liebot (wife of the U.S. Vice-
Consul), Mrs. Jeff Macartney, Mrs.
Ralph Bryant, Mrs. W. B. Faulkner and
Mrs. W. Rowell.
V
The Battle of Britain dinner-ball, to
be held in September at St. Kilda Palais,
will be attended by the Governor and
Lady Brooks. Chairman of the Ball
Committee is Mrs. E. C. Wackett, who
is Federal president of the Royal Aus-
tralian Air Force Women’s Association.
Other members of the committee include
Lady Williams, Mrs. R. D. Austin,
Mrs. A. L. Walters, hon. secretary Mrs.
E. Tuck and hon. treasurer Mrs. W. J.
Cameron. Double-tickets at five-guineas
are obtainable from the ticket-secretary,
Mrs. W. D. Richmond (XU 2253).
Proceeds from the ball are for the Edu-
cational Patriotic Fund.


SYDNEY
Spring has arrived (despite silent pro-
test of the calendar), rather like a guest
who comes a little early and timidly
unpacks a few belongings while waiting
for the previous occupant to bundle-up
and get out of the way. For swallows
are skimming busily around the parks ;
blossom is giving its rather heart-aching
beauty to even drab places ; and—in-
fallible proof!—a sudden obsession with
hats is occupying women.
Milliner Stella Frankel conspired with
spring to bring about the happy con-
centration for 260 women who attended
her parade of “Hats Through the Ages,”
presented at the Hotel Australia to aid
the Food for Babies fund, of which Lady
ißraddon is the hard-working president
iand Mrs. Jean Impkendeanz an equally
I enthusiastic vice-president. Members of
their committee helped model the hats,
which ranged from the high-topped
style, offshoot of the creation worn by
the beautiful Egyptian Nefertiti, to a
preview of the latest wisp-o’-veilirtg-and-
rose nonsense designed in Rome and
Paris for the cocktail-hour. Among those
who took part as mannequins were Mrs.
Walter McGrath, Mrs. Bill Dawson, Mrs.
M. A. Gall (who drew admiring com-
ment because of her striking resemblance
to the subject of Botticelli’s “Portrait
of a Young Woman”), and the Countess
Pietrasanta Sauvaigue.
Members of the committee who helped
model the hats included Mrs. Wyndham
Rofe, Mrs. Millard Hagon, Mrs. Bill
Dawson, Mrs. Tony Buckingham and
Mrs. Norman Jenkyn. A noble gesture
was made by the quartet who acted
Drysdale’s station-blacks in realistic
fashion; they blackened their faces
thoroughly for the afternoon-parade, and
’afterwards had to keep out of sight for
hours until the evening performance.
They were Mrs. W. R. Chisholm, Mrs.
Phillip Yates, Mrs. Joy Degenhardt and
Mrs. Joy Gray. Responsible for the
decor and stage-sets was Mrs. Marjorie
Canfield, who received many compli-
ments as a result.
☆ ☆ ☆
“I love hats!” confided dainty Mrs.
Jan Peerce, when she arrived last week
with her famous husband and about
three-dozen hats, many of which she
had designed herself. The one she wore
to the reception given for them by J. and
N. Tait and R.C.A. was a cage-like con-
fection of coarse-mesh veiling falling
from a round base, which Mrs. Peerce
says is ideal for travelling. She looked
charming, too, at her husband’s opening
concert on Thursday night, when she
wore a smaller version of the “cage” to
match her bouffant dress of grey moire-
taffeta. Mrs. Harald Bowden, who sat
with Mrs. Peerce, wore a small red
evening-hat with her black dress, and
Mrs. Rudy Tolnay’s slim sheath of
silver-lame was topped with a mink stole.
Those who attended the finals of the
Talent Quest at the State and Society
Club, King’s Cross, on Sunday night were
greatly impressed by the way in which
Mrs. Clarice Lorenz and her fellow-
directors are working to gain more
recognition for young (and as yet
unknown) Australian artists. In de-
lightfully informal fashion, the audience
which packed the clubroom sat around
tables in cabaret style and were enter-
tained by a programme of wide variety.
Judges were Madam Montana, Muriel
Steinbeck and Kathy Gorham. Winner
was good - looking young zither - player
Rudolph Mayer.
Patricia, daughter of Mona, Lady
Fairlie - Cuninghame, of Darling Point,
who has announced her engagement to
Peter Sheldon, son of the late Dr. Rupert
Sheldon and Mrs. S. Sheldon, of Edgecliff,
recently returned from a trip abroad,
which included a tour of the Continent
and Scotland. She is wearing a lovely
sapphire-and-diamond ring, but wedding-
plans have still to be made. Norton
Trev aire photograph.
Then there was Shirl Conway and her
wigs, bringing the exuberant personality
of “Auntie Marne” to the Theatre Royal.
Four of the wigs she wears on stage
during her fantastic and amusing
career ; the others are her own property.
She admits she has really grown into
the stage personality, and to those of
her first-night audience who went on to
the party after the show, she was still
very much Marnethey sampled her
“rattlesnake” sandwiches and “flaming
Marne” cocktails (the same as she served
in the play to daunt intended in-laws
of her adored nephew, Patrick), and
everything went on as merrily as before.
Glamorous dressing was a feature of
the opening night, and theatre-coats of
jewel-colors were extremely popular.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll, who was with her
husband and their son John, looked
charming in one of gold-patterned silk-
brocade, which had deep fur-cuffs on
its wide sleeves. Mrs. Tom Bateman
was outstanding in a lovely Italian frock
of fine-wool in a delicate-lilac shade,
made with full skirt on which quilted
bands alternated with plain ; with it she
wore a necklace of pearls and amethysts
that had been sent to her from Paris.
Another attractive pair were Mrs.
Audrey Winter-Irving and Mrs. Sam
Hordern. Judge and Mrs. Maxwell were
there, and in the after-show party were
a gay group which included Mr. and
Mrs. Peter Chambers, Miss Lyle
O’Hara, Bill Blezard, Eric Duckworth
and Peter Benjamin.
* * #
Bargains in exclusive winter-model
suits, dresses, top-coats and evening-
gowns will be offering at the Peter Pan
Opportunity Shop, Rowe Street, Sydney,
all this week. Many garments have been
marked at half-price and as proceeds
help good causes shoppers can thoroughly
enjoy the sale without qualms.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Voila Paris!” —with this intriguing
title, a showing of hair - styles for the
spring by l’haute coiffure Franyaise will
be a highlight of the function arranged
by the Lions Club of Sydney for the
Royal Blind Society of N.S.W. at the
Rainbow Room, Hotel Australia, today,
August 12. Afternoon-tea will be served,
and musical items and a tombola will
be part of the entertainment. For tickets
and reservations, ring Mrs. P. Burke
(FA9222).
☆ ☆ ☆
A full-time job as her husband’s
secretary is just one of the duties which
Mrs. Igor Gorin crowds into her day
without flurry or panic. The vivacious
American is hoping to visit some country
properties in Australia where beef-cattle
are bred, as her parents have a farm
for this purpose near Cincinnati, and
she would like to compare conditions.
Her husband, the visiting baritone, who
is Austrian-born and a naturalised
American, is described by his wife as ah
even-tempered man with no time for
displays of temperament.
☆ ☆ ☆
Navy defeated Army at an Australian
Rules football-match, and 10-year-old
Geoffrey Boyd is sure that “Captain
Bligh” brought luck to the winners.
He had suggested the name for the
Navy mascot, a boxer-dog belonging to
Mrs. Bill White, president of the social-
committee of the Royal N.S.W. Institu-
tion for Deaf and Blind Children, which
organised the match. The bike which
Geoffrey won for his prize-winning entry
confirmed his belief in the luck o’ the
Navy. For the same objective a luncheon
will be held on August 18 at the Darling
Point home of Miss Georgina Scott,
when a special feature will be a make-up
demonstration by Max Factor repre-
sentatives. Calling themselves “The
Gay Twenties,” a group of young people
who intend to work for the same cause
will hold their first function, a cocktail-
dance, at High Court. Co-president of
the group with Bruce Bridie is Judy
Saunders (8X2235).


general undesirability (from a fisher-
man’s viewpoint) of the Snowy River
Scheme which is opening-up so much
of this wild and beautiful country to
the tourist, the spoon-flash and the
worm.
The Wild South Seas
Guy Batham, of Brisbane, who
returned to Australia “with a couple
of decorations for valor” after World
War I and “decided to make the
Pacific Ocean my playground,” tells
some remarkable stories in his auto-
biography Drifting Around the South
Seas (Robert Hale, Ltd.).
There was the time in Canada, for
instance, when he knocked-out a hobo
with one hand, the hobo having knifed
his other arm. There “was the time,
while he was crossing the Pacific with
Captain Hartt, of Sydney, in the 34ft.
yawl Spindrift, when a fish pulled him
overboard, naked, and he had to swim
for his life after the yawl, the skipper
of which couldn’t hear his cries.
Fortunately Batham was a “reason-
ably good swimmer”; in fact he had
swum “up to ten miles in calm
waters.”
Then there is his description of the
crags of Moorea rearing above him
“like the ancient stronghold of some
mighty Titian”—but this, of course, is
a misprint for “Titan”—and there are
the very rude nude dances he saw in
the Tahitian forests when his aristo-
cratic French friend was being tatooed
so that he could marry the chief’s
daughter.
Rivalling his own adventures, there
is the fearful night his native friends
on Hikueru spent on a platform
lashed high up on the lopped tops of
six coconut-trees while a cyclone
roared around them and brought the
great seas rushing beneath them. And,
if on a lower scale of drama, there is
his own almost equally perilous
experience when he was shooting pigs
in the Marquesas and, as these
ferocious creatures swept in to the
attack —“I heard Kekela shout for us
to watch out for their tusks as they
commenced closing in, their long tusks
champing and their vicious-looking
jaws snapping”—lost his footing right
in the path of a great red boar which
“began tearing at me'with his wicked
curved tusks.” Batham modestly says,
“I can tell you right now that a
defenceless man on his back is no
match for a wounded blood-crazed
boar”; but his friends, at any rate,
took care of that one—Kekela simply
threw himself upon it and forced its
head backwards till he broke its neck.
It would be a pity in this brief sum-
mary not to mention the time Batham
was diving for pearls on Hikueru anc
was caught by a giant clam; but per
haps the most remarkable of all the
stories is the one in which he is ship-
wrecked with a beauteous Polynesia!
maiden on a previously unknown atoll
This was when Batham and Captair
Hartt were cruising to the Marquesaj
and elsewhere with a Captain Delprit
They had four half-grown goats aboarc
(for mutton); the Polynesian maidei
(for Captain Delprit; he was engagee
to her); a very nasty-minded Frenct
copra-planter who kept leering at th<
maiden; and, since Batham says h<
himself was also attracted to th<
maiden (as well he might be: “Hei
lips were painted red and her dark mai
of wavy hair was clouded about hei
attractive features like nimbus cloud;
around Mount Temetiu”) they seemec
set for an exciting voyage, whatevei
happened.
Shipwreck must have been or
Batham’s mind, for before the accidem
occurred he asked Captain Delprit il
a man could survive on one of those
lonely atolls, and Delprit said it woulc
only be possible if he had a native
companion. Worse things were on the
copra-planter’s mind, for Batham hac
already had to warn him: “Keep youi
foul mind above your belt on thii
cruise.” And then, in the wink of ar
eye as you might say, there they were
wrecked on this lonely atoll, witl
THE FLIGHT FROM THE PAST
I’ll fare forth as I fared forth to fish with my father
Through paddock and Chinaman s garden and marsh to
the river
Where the boatman waits with his boats and his bait at the
boatshed;
Now, less enchanted and charmed than enchained by my
childhood,
Sooner than fishing I’m setting my soul on escaping,
Reckoning, once at the river, on never returning.
Let the steelworks conspire to assist me in never returning ;
From the manager’s house on the hill near the house of
my father
Let workshops and cottages pour out behind my escaping
Over paddock and Chinaman’s garden and marsh to the
river ;
May they fence and efface the unfaceable faces of
childhood
That crisscross my brain like the crabs on the bank by
the boatshed:
A bit of a crab in himself, the old bloke at the boatshed ;
His leg and his crutch like a compass, half-turning,
returning,
He springs down the narrow sprung plank to me out of
my childhood
Shouldering a pair of light sculls (so he says) for my father,
On to the boat alongside the pontoon on the river,
His good-natured swearing like genial sewerage escaping.
Then slightly my father sways forward, and we are
escaping;
He strains in the stroke to his body away from the
boatshed;
Soon the bow chuckles and clucks at the chop of the water;
The sculls twist and slither and scud on the water, returning
With effortless ease ; an artist with oars is my father:
Who else could l choose or exchange to discharge me from
childhood ?
He made me child, he must manage my mission from
childhood ;
He who escapes all, him has no hope of escaping ;
The farther you fare, the farther you further your father,
Born to him, bearing his will until, past your last boatshed,
You fare on his ferry beyond any faith in returning
Out of the ocean opening out from the river.
Mournful as mangroves the boatman will moan by the
river,
Worrying the watch in his waistcoat he wore in my
childhood:
“Sunset, and still not a sign of the scoundrels returning!
Stealing my skiff when they’re selfishly set on escaping!
Gone with my boat and the best pair of sculls in the
boatshed —
Christ! Won’t l call down the Force on that kid and his
father!”
The Envoy
I’ll fare forth to the river, setting my soul on escaping
The chains of my childhood, to the enchantments beyond
the boatshed,
Reckoning on never returning, but on faring forth with
my father.
RONALD McCUAIG.


Country Library Service
The finest value in Library Service is offered by a yearly, half yearly or
quarterly subscription to The Book Centre. We can offer you 50,000 volumes,
unlimited exchange and no extra freight charges. Subscriptions start from
£2/10/6 for 6 books at a time. Full details gladly sent on application to
THE BOOK CENTRE
Box 21, Rose Bay P. 0., N.S.W.
The latest best sellers are of course available.
v* s
dr
&
Or
&
#
#
Ask us to place you on our mailing list and regularly inform you
of new books on any subject which interests you.
Ask us to send you a book and we will post it by return mail to
any place in the world.
Ask us anything you like about books . , . we know and would
like to be of service to you.
GRAHAME BOOK COMPANY
Cnr. Martin Place and Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 9021.
Captain Delprit unfortunately killed in
the crash and Batham and Hartt and
the planter left with the maiden to
fight it out. The planter, after spearing
the author with a fish-spear, develops
a “maniacal cackle,” but mercifully
dies after a fight; and, as the maiden
remarked in the paradisal days that
were to come, “It was all in self-
defence.”
Well may the blurb declare, “On
many a night on his yawl Guy Batham
has enthralled those lucky enough to
be aboard with tales of thrilling
experiences.”
Reviewed Briefly
The Darkest Bough: Anne Chamber-
lain (Hart-Davis). A sinister long
short-story of great brilliance. The
young heroine, living with her bed-
ridden grandmother and her little idiot
brother, is seduced by a young man
who is engaged to look after the boy.
When the grandmother hears of this
and protests, the evil young lover
begins putting it into* the head of the
idiot boy to strangle the grandmother.
It’s extraordinarily well done, but
there an end.
* * * *
A Beat of Your Own: R. M. Bowker
(Cassell). How (in England) to
“select, buy, build, maintain or
charter yachts and dinghies.” With
attention to properties of different
woods in yachts, and a warning that
galvanised-iron frames tend to rust.
Prices according to tonnage —a 10-ton
yacht that cost £5OO sterling in 1900
is worth £4OOO today. How to pay
builders of yachts 10 per cent, with
order, 15 per cent, when the keel is
laid, 25 per cent, on completion of
planking. Registration; shelves and
quicksands of charter-agreements,
inventories, etc.; dangers of taking a
tow from boatmen who “ruthlessly
take advantage of unknowledgeable
yachtsmen” and then hit them up for
salvage. With plates of yachts and
yards, several of the yachts being the
author’s (his six-metre Caprice looks
very beaut.), and a considerable
glossary of seamanlike terms, it should
be a means of preserving many an
intending yachtsman from the sharks,
by sea or land.
* * * *
The American Rat: Jacques Lanz-
mann (Faber). A picaresque French
novel about a young painter who for
no apparent reason emigrates to South
America and soon finds himself crawl-
ing miserably along the underside of
its society. It is a rapid crawl,
described thinly and scrappily, like a
travel-book written under pressure
(though perhaps the machine-gun prose
had a bite in the original French that
won’t survive translation). After starv-
ing and begging his way through the
company of ex-Nazis, gamblers, pros-
titutes, drug-addicts and perverts, the
narrator ends by having to work for
some months in the terrible copper-
mines high in the Andes to save the
money to get back to France. Most
of the book is as aimless and arbitrary
as its hero’s behavior, and a lot of
good situations and stories are thrown
away in its headlong rush, but the
copper-mine chapters make interesting
reportage.
* * *
All in a Lifetime: Walter Allen
(Michael Joseph). A novel written as
the autobiography of an English
journeyman who has lived through the
struggle of his class for political
recognition and power. In the style
of a simple but sensitive man who has
read Ruskin, Morris, Defoe and the
Book of Common Prayer, his decep-
tively scattered memories wonderfully
evoke seventy years of English history,
making a sort of epitaph for the now
almost extinct worker-radical whose
politics grew out of Nonconformism
and the Education Act. Perhaps the
characters are a little too studiously
representative of trends in the period,
but the author has somehow managed
to make history take place as much
inside their lives as outside, and has
harnessed his stretch of time without
slipping into the longueurs of a
“chronicle.” The last chapter, where
the old man, dropping back into child-
hood, is seen to have achieved a certain
humble heroism, is one of the most
moving things this reviewer has seen
in a recent novel.
* * * *
The Practical Hi-Fi Handbook:
Gordon J. King (Odhams). Couched
for the most part in necessarily tech-
nical terms, this book examines many
of the problems associated with high-
fidelity gramophone reproduction. If
you can negotiate the neat and terri-
fying table on page 15 (“Conversion
of Power Ratios to Decibels”) there
are many things to intrigue hi-fi bugs;
King, for instance, considers that a
single-channel reproducer system “can
never give true fidelity of reproduc-
tion,” and in an excellent 10th
chapter, titled “Stereophony.” he
examines radio’s answer to TV with
the devoted fanaticism of an expert.
* * * *
Epoch and Artist: David Jones
(Faber). A contemporary Welsh artist
of considerable eminence, the author
is also a poet of immense difficulty.
This book is a collection of his broad-
cast talks and essays contributed to
magazines. A Catholic, he talks about
religion and art; deeply versed in both
Welsh history and Welsh poetry, he
discusses early Welsh poetry, follows
Borrow around Wales and contributes
several essays to the Arthurian myth;
and he speaks nobly of the poet
Christopher Smart, and with love and
admiration of Eric Gill and his
sculpture.


H
th
Facts
ere
are
e
o n
„ ' ,#v Us. '
' ; % ''\ * 4 1
I
the Choice of the Experienced Man
on the Land for all Water Supply Needs
PROOF of the overall SUPERIORITY of Steel
Pipe over other types has long been established
—is still being established—on the basis of:
★ COSTS LESS —prices include all necessary couplings.
★ Not subject to damage by termites or rodents.
"k When laid above ground, minimum possibility of damage
by stock or fire.
★ No deterioration from sunlight.
★ Pressure capacity far greater than most other types.
Pressure ratings unaffected by atmospheric temperature
variations.
★ Less likelihood of damage during installation, storing
and handling.
★ Intrinsic structural strength readily enables overhead,
vertical or building installations to be made with a
minimum of support.
These are the facts that have guided so many
shrewd buyers for many years.
For OVERALL Performance and Satisfaction, SPECIFY
STEEL PIPE and ORDER Steel Pipe from your local
Hardware Store, Pastoral House
OR FROM
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (distributors) PTY. LTD,
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong, Launceston,
Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
6CTYSS
