

PROVED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
as the
HOME LIGHTING
BATTERY that's
YEARS AHEAD
Century engineers working closely with leading battery
laboratories in U.S.A. perfected this marvellous homelighting
battery, approved by thousands of users all over Australia as
the finest battery ever made. It’s NEW IN EVERY DETAIL
—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES—NEW CONSTRUCTION
METHODS—NEW SUPER PERFORMANCE.
LOOK AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES.
• SILVIUM=— the scientific additive
which KEEPS PLATES ACTIVE
WITH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY;
PREVENTS GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURY IIOMELIGIIT-
-ING BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILYIUM.
• TRANSPARENT POLYSTY-
RENE CONTAINER . . . you can
see the acid level at a glance.
• INBUILT GRAVITY BALL
INDICATORS . . . show state
of cliarge AT ALL TIMES.
No more messy hydrometer.
• GLASS INSULATION — gives
sustained power during the
BATTERY’S ENTIRE LIFE.
BACKED BY A BULLET-PROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
cwiwr
with SILVIUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Demand the best . . . buy the best . . . buy century!
IbILYIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
SUVIIA iiillillJL
(iililimVll!)
csz?rrr*%
These threa gravity ball
indicators white, red
and green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
AVAILABLE FROM CENTURY BATTERY DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
"Walu Passage" —page 32
Wednesday , July 22, 1959
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
NATIVE PLANTS
Unless it is to be reviewed as if no
other books on the subject existed,
A. E. Brooks’s Australian Native
Plants for Home Gardens (Lothian)
forces upon the reviewer the odious
and unenviable task of comparison;
in particular, out of Brooks’s list of
twenty-three reference-books, with
A. M. Blombery’s “Native Australian
Plants,” published a year or so ago
by Angus and Robertson, which is
probably the most useful of them for
the ordinary home-gardener.
Fortunately the task does not turn
out so odious, for Brooks’s book really
makes an indispensable companion to
Blombery. It stands firmly on its own
feet, as does Blombery: either would
do as a substitute for the other; but
the genuine enthusiast will want both.
Blombery goes into more detail
about how and when to take cuttings
and seeds and how to get them going;
also he takes you out into the bush
more often to find them. Consider,
for instance, both writers on the
gompholobium (golden pea-bush), a
native inhabitant which is particularly
dear to this reviewer, partly because
of its beautifully elephantine name,
partly because, under Blombery’s
instructions, he managed to grow it
from seed, finding exactly the insect-
damage to many of the seeds that
Blombery had prophesied. Here is
Brooks, quite graphic and to the
point:—
Gompholobiums, or wedge-peas,
are small pea-flowered shrubs with
narrow leaves. The flowers give the
effect of being half-closed and so
resemble tiny wedges in appearance.
G. huegelii (pale wedge-pea), with
pale-yellow flowers, is of variable
height but may reach three-feet.
Large wedge-pea, G. grandiflorum
(yellow), broad wedge-pea, G. lati-
folium (yellow), handsome wedge-
pea, G. venustum (pink or purple),
and dwarf wedge-pea, G, minus
(orange) are other species.
And here, more expansive, more
bushy, is Blombery:—
Gompholobium (golden pea-bush).
As the petals of this large pea-
flower begin to fall off, the inflated
roundish pea-pod emerges. It
increases in size and, as it begins to
ripen, the color changes to dark-
brown or black. When ripe, the
seed-pod opens and from eight to
fourteen small brownish-white seeds
may be present. Mostly, however,
there are only a few seeds in each,
and in many cases no seeds at all
are obtained. The seeds of this
shrub are particularly subject to
infestation by insects, indicated
usually by a small hole to be found
in the pod, with the result that fre-
quently all the seeds are destroyed.
The seed ripens during the last two
weeks in November and in the
early part of December. Frequently
the collected seed-pods will not open,
and it is necessary to break them
in order to obtain the seed.
Blombery, except for the list of
“other species,” seems to have the
advantage here; but Brooks (why, after
all, should he be?) is not quite at his
best on the gompholobium; and else-
where, without repeating himself as
often as Blombery, he does give full
and useful instructions, which can be
generally applied, about seeds and
cuttings. If he does not go out into
the bush much his justification is, as
he says, that these plants are increas-
ingly available at the nurseries: our
flora is really getting very respectable
these days. His style, though neces-
sarily he is forced into some compact-
ness, is easy and pleasant, even
enlivened with a touch of humor from
time to time —it is quite a feat to be
amusing about the hardenbergia—and,
like Blombeiy’s, his book can be used
not only in the garden but to supple-
ment Thistle Harris and other
naturalists in the identification of plants
in the bush.
But Brooks’s great advantage is his
copiousness. Without falling into the
bare cataloguing that helps nobody, he
describes a great many more plants
than Blombery; and for that reason he
is, as one says, indispensable. His
range is all over Australia, from Wes-
tralia to Sydney, from the desert to
the tropics, but sensibly he confines
himself largely to plants that can be
re-established in all climates and con-
ditions; and to some extent, too, he
limits himself to plants that are avail-
able from the nurseries.
This reviewer, as a very amateur
enthusiast in the field, wishes that
Brooks had been a little more polite to
the lomatia, or wild parsley, which is
almost as beautiful as the rock-lily;
and one might offer for Brooks’s infor-
mation (he includes popular names
whenever he can) that children around
Sydney call the seed-cases of the silky
hakea “kookaburras,” which birds,
when the cases open like beaks, they
do very fetchingly resemble. But these
are trivialities; and if the absence of
the bush-orchids is a more serious
matter, no doubt you can’t have every-
thing.
And Brooks does give you almost
everything else: whether it is Acacia
aculeatissima, which is a wattle you
can grow in your rockery; or a proper
respect for the dwarfapple with its
creamy blossoms, a most sumptuous
shrub which Sydney is busy extermi-
nating with bulldozers; or the cran-
berry-heath, the bull-banksia, the
violet bottlebrush, the charms and
problems of the boronias, the pig-face’s
change of name to “noon-face,” the
advantages of casuarinas for street-
planting, the possibilities of the hedge-
hog hakea, the success with which
leschenaultia has been grown in Vic-
toria . . . and so right through to
Vittadinia triloba, a desert-daisy to
keep company wth Acacia aculeatis-
sima in the rockery. There is even a
chapter on ferns, which are a regret-
table omission in nearly all our
previous wildflower books.
S.
SHEILA’S WASHING SONG
My love will have none of me.
She throws a ball about
Or scrubs her Sunday clothes,
Singing of some great lout
Asleep beneath a tree.
She wrings arid pegs the clothes
And dances to the ball
At the edge of the wild water ,
Her call like a bird's call,
Singing of a king’s daughter.
O my girls are scattered in graves
And the river has run to the sea
Bearing a tinsel ball,
But look, she cries, where he
Is battling with the waves!
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
"The Wild Colonial Boy "
You may be interested to know that
I am still receiving direct replies as a
result of my letter about “The Wild
Colonial Boy” published in “The
Bulletin” of l/10/’5B. This ballad-
trail stretches across three continents
over a period of nearly 130 years, and
a great deal of mystery is still attached
to it.
Would it be possible through your
columns to stir a few memories on the
subject of Dan Duggan? From the
neighborhood of Castlemain, Co.
Kerry, it would appear that he was
the son of travelling-folk (tinkers). He
sailed from the port of Fenit to N. S.
Wales in the middle years of the last
century, and in Australia adopted
bushranging as a profession—meeting
a violent but “game” end. Docu-
mentary evidence concerning his career
is very sparse indeed, and I would
greatly appreciate any traditional
information.
Likewise, perhaps someone might be
in a position to help me regarding
versions of “Johnnie Troy” extant in
Australia, or information relating to
(Continued on page 58)


%
40S
Diogenes said
66
99
O.ICI live in a tub ~ So what
He liked to flaunt his poverty but who else does?
He lived in a tub but who wants to do that?
II we can, we prefer to live in homes we own.
If we buy them on a mortgage basis, as most of us do, we
plan to wipe out the debt by instalment repayments if
we live and by a mortgage redemption ,
policy if we die.
The A.M.P. has alternative Mortgage Redemption Policies
from which to choose.
Let an A.M.P. man tell you about them.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
GENERAL MANAGER: M. G. BUTTFIELD,
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unouestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £400,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the Neatest benefit to members
PO7BB.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 22, 1959
VoL 80—No. 4145
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
BUDGET AND EXPANSION
npHE Federal Cabinet met last week
to discuss the Budget to be brought
down next month. The circumstances
surrounding the discussion were very
different from those expected earlier in
1958-59.
In introducing his eighth Budget last
year, Sir Arthur Fadden said that he
was planning for a cash deficiency of
£llO million, which it was proposed
to cover by borrowing from the central
bank.
He judged that “expansive action of
that kind is more appropriate than the
conventional course of trying to match
total receipts and total outgoings.”
During a year when exports had
fallen in sympathy with reduced farm
income and mining receipts, there was
little complaint about the official
policy of deficit-financing on a modest
scale.
However, it turns out that the policy
was not really necessary to the extent
estimated. Though the Consolidated
Revenue receipts for 1958-59 were
£14.2 million less than the Budget
estimate, and expenditure £19.2
million more, all the cash-deficit that
will need to be covered by Treasury
bills is £29.5 million. And if the year’s
excise, Customs duties, income-tax and
gift- and estate-duties had not
shrivelled a little and expenditure had
not increased, through demands by the
Snowy River scheme moving ahead of
schedule and calls from the Inter-
national Monetary Fund, the Treasurer
would have had no deficit at all.
A readier response by investors to
Commonwealth loans made the differ-
ence in the cash position.
As it is, some people profess to be
glad because they see in the situation
justification for personal tax-reduc-
tion. The Treasury, which lives closer
to reality than the newspapers, might
not, however, think so. The Budget
statement last year noted the dominant
fact that “for the first time in many
years, the total revenues of the Com-
monwealth are estimated to be less
than the actual revenues of the previous
year.” Furthermore, that during
1958-59 income-tax, the largest source,
which accounts for very nearly half
the Consolidated Revenue, would
reflect the heavy fall in primary pro-
ducers’ incomes, plus the full effects
of the tax-concessions made in the
1957-58 Budget.
The same influences will be apparent
in 1959-60. Tax-collections in the past
year, including income-tax, have fallen
short of expectations by £16.6 million
and of the previous year’s actual collec-
tions by £3l million.
TN the current year the fall in wool
prices during last season and the
general contraction in world trade will
be even more sharply etched into the
financial background than in 1958-59.
The present improvement in export
prices and markets is likely to have a
delayed-action effect on public finance,
and the Treasury will not reap the
benefit of it until next year.
Real concessions to taxpayers seem
likely to be in respect of anomalies
and hangovers from previous “tight”
Budgets.
There is still ample room for the
removal of nuisance taxes such as the
payroll-tax, either at one blow or
gradually. These impose a burden
which tends to stifle expansion in many
reproductive businesses. The removal
of payroll-tax would no doubt in time
fully recoup itself through other taxa-
tion avenues if it were taken-off the
backs of employers.
There is room for a policy more
clearly aimed to put a bonus on the
expansion of industry and to build
exports and ’ employment to dovetail
with immigration of a larger proportion
of skilled workers from overseas.
Depreciation-allowances and double-
taxation of company-income need
urgent attention.
There is also need for a more con-
crete long-term programme of develop-
ment in transport and in the use of
lands which at present are not paying
their way —lands such as the huge area
of brigalow country discussed by W. L.
Payne in his royal-commission report
on settlement in Queensland, which
could be made highly productive,
though only after heavy capital-invest-
ment on improvements.
The whole question of road-
transport will have to be tackled
seriously before long by somebody,
State or Federal, since the existing
road-systems promise to be chocked
with traffic in the next five or six
years. Rqads are being pounded to
pieces by loads which they were never
built to carry, and receive the most
inadequate repairs because the local
authorities are unable to pay their
quota for even what is vital, much less
what is desirable for the future.
The problem calls for a long-term
national scheme, as does the planning
of aerodromes which have come into
existence on a catch-as-catch-can hand-
to-mouth policy designed without fore-
sight. With the advent of the fast,
large, jet aircraft, the Australian air-
terminals have become the central
point of the whole aerial transport
system of the seas stretching from
Africa to the Americas. The increas-
ing shift of big shipping to Australian
bases to establish round-the-Pacific
connections for big liners places this
country in much the same position in
relation to sea-trade.
These conditions need to be pre-
pared for on a long-term basis by quick
action to provide for expansion.
Already at the very inception of the
new era it has been proved that metro-
politan airfields are outmoded and
wrongly placed for international traffic,
And in Sydney Cove work is on the
way to provide at least one sea-terminus
capable of handling efficiently the
traffic of ships like the new 45,000-
tonners of the Orient and P. & O.
services which will be here in a year
or two.
'THERE is a tremendous amount of
forward-looking development work
to be done in Australia as the basis
for economic expansion and the filling
of spaces where population is falling-
off instead of growing and where the
rot can be stopped only by large
capital-outlay.
News-items described as Budget
“leaks” suggest that, against some
minor tax-reductions, there will be
increases in pensions and repatriation
and medical benefits, and an easing of
the means-test. Such increases would
stand in the way of major tax-
reductions.
There is some case for the mainten-
ance of taxation near its present general
level, moderate by comparison with
that of most other countries, but
subject to anomalies which badly need
correcting. High taxation, however,
needs to be combined with prudence
and economical handling of funds and
sound direction of their expenditure so
as always to help, not hinder, the efforts
of private enterprise. This has become
particularly true since the Common-
wealth developed into a Welfare State
in which the National Welfare Fund
covering pensions, medical benefits,
child-endowment and other charges
eats-up nearly £5OO million out of
£l3OO-million of total revenue in the
year. The rest of the revenue now
collected is equal to the value of the
whole of our exports.


THE "NEW YIELD" LOOK


PLAIN ENGLISH
New Leader
The N.S.W. Liberal party has always
had a hard row to hoe, and for many
years has not been attractive to really
first-class men, though many have gone
into its ranks. It has no chance of
securing unchallenged power by itself,
and a Government under its manage-
ment in the past few years could have
been only an uneasy compromise, since
the N.S.W. Country is in point of
ability and hardworking political nous
and drive no secondary consideration. .
Moreover, the Liberal party has an
increasingly small chance of indepen-
dence of action, for the Country party
seats are mostly solid ones, come storm
or fair weather.
The State Liberal-party policy has had
for a long time an ineffectual appearance,
though in recent months a change for
the better seemed to be coming.
It took a six-hour debate, with one
member absent, before what Sydney
“Herald” described as the “subversive
activities” of three members toppled Pat
Morton from his throne by a vote of
15 to 13, and then unanimously set the
crown on the head of Robin W. Askin,
his deputy-leader.
There was nothing very spectacular
either in the decision in a party which
is used to toppling leaders, or in the
choice.
Morton’s main attributes were his
sincerity and his business training. With
a little more luck last March he might
have proved himself an able administra-
tor. But his grip on the leadership was
never beyond doubt—certainly not
strong enough to survive two electoral
defeats.
Mr. Askin is a personable returned-
soldier, 50 years old, a lucid speaker
who has so far never set the Harbor on
fire, but who has done a pretty solid job.
He has set himself the task of becoming
the Playford of New South Wales, one
who hopes to be able to forget class-
divisions in his politics.
It is a laudable ambition in which
everybody will wish him luck, with the
reservation that it takes much more than
the utterance of an aspiration to become
a Playford.
The first thing the N.S.W. subscriber
to such an ambition needs is a united
Opposition composed of the type of men
who rule in South Australia, Country
party and Liberals in full amity, with
complete trust in their Leader. The next
is a force of personality strong enough to
impose his plans on his party and its
organisation.
Where the Men and Money Go
Although the Federal Treasurer did not
give the State totals when he estimated
that £5OO million of private capital had
been invested in Australia in the last
five years, it is reliably estimated in
Melbourne that two-fifths of it has been
placed in Victoria.
The absorption of migrants in Victoria
is also quite remarkable. “Herald”
Research, a department run by Mel-
bourne “Herald,” has produced, ahead
of Canberra, the figures for the last five
years to March 31.
Victoria got 43.5 per cent, of the
total —179,000 of 413,000 migrants.
N.S.W. took 111,000 (26.9 p.c.), and
South Australia 63,000 (15.4). Other
percentages were West Australia 5.5,
Queensland 4.5, A.C.T. 2.5, Tasmania
1.3 and N.T. 0.4. Victoria now has
about a quarter of the national popula-
tion of 10 million; by 1970, if the
present migration trend continues, the
State will have a third.
British migrants headed the totals of
intakes, followed by Italians, Dutch,
Germans and Greeks, with the French
nowhere; but British migrants have
been freely criticised in Victoria in
recent months for squealing, returning
to Britain and squealing to return, and
also for making holiday-jaunts of migra-
tion-concessions. It is true, of course,
that the English are nowhere as admirable
as in England.
There is no doubt where the money
is being made. Of the £43.4-million rise
in bank-deposits last year, £23.5 million
was in Victoria. N.S.W. was ahead in
money spent on factories and extensions,
nearly £7B million in the five years (of
an Australian total of £lB4 million) to
Victoria’s £73.5 million; but the St.
Marys munitions factory gave N.S.W.
this edge. The Federal Government still
has faith in N.S.W.
Commercial TV
[By “Freelance”]
The time has come for those who run
commercial television to study one of
the lessons of history. The Mongol,
Goth, Hun and Vandal invaders of Asia
Minor and Southern Europe often left
nothing but corpses and burnt-out cities
behind them.
From the point of view of the raiders,
this was fine as long as fresh territory
remained to be ravaged, but if carried
too far the day came when no centres
of population were left to despoil.
Commercial TV must have a huge
advertising revenue to pay its way, and
much of this is gained by taking it away
from the periodicals whose pages have
been providing a market for the work
of creative writers. At the 'same time,
TV cannot provide an alternative market
for most of those writers.
Commercial TV must also have a con-
tinuous supply of old films, but by pro-
viding an alternative source of enter-
tainment, it has dealt the makers of
films a body-blow. The latest example
is the purchase, by TV interests, of an
old-established film-studio in England.
It was not done with the idea of
using the sound-stages, film-processing
laboratories, workshops, cameras and
recording-equipment in the production
of new films for TV, but to secure a
stock of 150 old films for release on TV.
There is an obvious end to this kind
of exploitation.
At the outset, people connected with
TV thought they had an inexhaustible
supply of material at their disposal. Every-
thing ever written was there for them to
exploit!
But before long a most disturbing
discovery was made. Much of the work
of the great writers of the past was
unsuited to the requirements of TV.
Further, in the entire course of their
working-life, even the most prolific of
popular writers did not turn-out any
great quantity of stories set around
original plots and new situations. The
entire output of people such as O. Henry
and Jack London was soon gobbled-up.
The day has now come when TV in the
U.S.A. has to rely mainly on “written-
to-order” material, and the standard of
entertainment has flopped.
One result is that sound-radio, which
had appeared to be almost knocked-out
in the U.S.A., had its best-ever year
there in, 1958. The number of radio-
receivers in use and the advertising-
revenue both set new records.
Here in Australia it will take a long
time for the same position to arise, for
our commercial TV won’t need to worry
until it has run through all the American
films which it has on hand or can still
get; but the Broadcasting Control
Board should be able to do something
about it now.
During the first hearings for applica-
tions for commercial-TV licences in
Sydney and Melbourne, assurances were
given that local talent would be used
in the way of writers and performers,
but so far none of these pledges has
been honored. It is significant that at
the later hearings for licences in Adelaide
and Brisbane, the applicants were very
evasive on that point.
But surely, when commercial-TV
licences are granted, the 8.C.8. has
insisted on some kind of agreement about
the employment of a proportion of local
talent on televised programmes, and isn’t
it time that steps were taken to enforce it?
Equally important would be the grant-
ing of additional funds to the A.8.C.,
raised if necessary by an increase in the
cost of a licence to operate a TV-receiver,
to enable the national stations to use an
increased number of Australian scripts
and artists. The moment commercial TV
finds that the A.B.C. is putting-out better
programmes than its own, it won’t need
any other form of coercion.
The Holier View
The long-overdue revolt against the
R.S.L. State executive in Victoria on the
Anzac Day issue arrived after a debate
at the annual conference in Mel-
bourne. It was remarkably circum-
spect compared with the acrimonious
discussions in previous years, when the
executive, with the assistance chiefly of
the smaller sub - branches, was able to
block it.
Caulfield Central, the largest Victorian
sub-branch, at last succeeded with a
motion calling for a referendum of all
members asking whether they favored a
change, and setting-out four choices in
the manner of changing the observance
of the day if they do.
The only unpleasantness during the


debate was the injunction by Charles
McKay, the State president, who said
he did not wish to hear any criticism
about the way Anzac Day was observed
in other States ; if they were brought
into the debate, he said, they could be
maligned. The implication is clear. The
State executive’s holier-than-thou attitude
to the rest of Australia is remarkable,
since the chief post-march feature of a
Victorian Anzac Day is guzzling, and,
in some pubs, sly-grog.
The changed front of the annual con-
ference was foreshadowed by a spate of
sub - branch announcements that a
referendum, or a change of observation,
was favored, following the publication
of “Murray Swagman’s” notable
Bulletin article “The R.S.L. in Victoria:
What’s Wrong With it?” on June 17, in
which he described how the executive
frustrated members.
It was the first time such a factual,
even-tempered article on the State R.S.L.
in Victoria from the inside had been
published.
Threats and Realities
No better evidence could be had of
Moscow’s determination to force its will
on the West than Khrushchev's speeches
in Poland on the eve of the session of
the Big Four Ministers in Geneva.
During the last session he was flutter-
ing round the Balkans like an evil bird,
part of the time holed-up in Albania,
part in the countryside adjacent to Ger-
many, muttering threats and abuse and
his determination to have East Germany
at any cost.
This time he has appeared in Poland,
en route to Norway, apparently on the
same sort of mission. His tactics are
Asiatic —more like those of an ancient
Assyrian king than of a sober, modern
statesman, and, moreover, with an
obvious belief that truth has no part in
an argument.
His opening-guns in this campaign
were trained on Dr. Adenauer, in West
Germany.
West Germany, of all Western nations,
was the most reluctant to rearm. It
could not fight Belgium at the present
time with its organised forces. But
Khrushchev feels it necessary to remind
Adenauer that “the Socialist camp has
grown so powerful that it has all the
means necessary to halt the warmongers,”
and that if he raises his hand against the
Socialist countries “we. . . .will repeat the
lesson we taught Hitler... .we will break
you.”
In another speech he defended Stalin’s
1939 non-aggression pact with Hitler,
hied to frighten the Poles with the cry
that Adenauer had designs on West
Polish territory—how some Poles must
wish that he had!
The impudence of this stuff against
the background of Communist history
is less arresting than the hysteria obvious
in it.
The leader of a nation which called
the Germans “blood-drunk tyrants,”
gangsters,” “loathsome offal led by
maggots” and a few other epithets in
1939 and then six months afterwards
made a pact with them, divided Poland
with them, grabbed the Baltic States
under Hitler’s consenting shadow, called
Churchill a “blood-drunk” beast because
he would not make peace with Berlin,
and actually only fell into war with Ger-
many because it wanted too greedy a
share of the world-spoils to be divided
with Japan and Germany, needs cast-
iron nerve for such an attack.
At the same time it is illuminating.
People of supreme strength do not shout
boasts and threats to ward-off attack.
It also emphasises the vital importance
of Germany to Russia. A Western Ger-
many in existence for captive citizens
and intellectuals and men of science to
slip into out of the squalor of East
Berlin is bad enough. East Germany
has been the school in which Moscow
has learnt most of its science and techni-
cal know-how. But a West Germany in
East Germany, where it would be in 10
minutes if the East could have a free
vote, would be alongside Poland.
If Eisenhower, De Gaulle and
Macmillan were to wander the marches
within sound of Geneva shouting
fulminations and protestations of their
power to wipe-out Soviet Russia at a
blow, there would be a fine outcry in
the Kremlin. But they have no inclina-
tion to indulge in these exercises in
aggression, especially during a negotia-
tion. And probably they have no need.
Pot and Kettle
The suppression of the Communist
official journal in Djakarta and the ban
on political activity has made more
imminent the showdown which ulti-
mately must come in Indonesia.
The so-called Cabinet of Dr. Soekarno
seems to consist of Soekarno himself,
a number of Army-officers and some
camp-followers, making-up a total of 43.
The most powerful force in the
country, the trade-unions, virtually under
the domination of the Communists, is
unrepresented, which is very wise, per-
haps, on the part of the real controllers
of the situation, who evidently know their
Communists. It also isolates them, and
is apt to make martyrs of them to gain
the sympathy of the workers of the big
cities and many other people as well.
There is, of course, an ironic side to it.
The Communist journal, before it was
banned, swelled red with indignation at
the idea of tyrannous “guided democracy”
and ban on political activity, forgetting,
of course, to mention that the new
Government structure is very much like
that of the Kremlin, and that its habits
of suppressing political thought .and its
vocabulary of political double-talk came
out of the Communist manuals.
It is an uneasy situation which could
lead to civil disturbances.
On the face of it, it is another rebuff
for Communism following those achieved
in Singapore, Siam, Kerala and Burma.
But it brings the Communist issue in
South-east Asia much nearer to a conflict.
And the form that conflict might
possibly take is not pleasant to think
of when the situation is reviewed in the
light of what has happened when Com-
munist vanguards have got to work on
hysterical mobs elsewhere.
France's Aid to Writers
It is ironic that the de Gaulle Govern-
ment, which attracted so much unfriendly
prophecy from the parlor-pink element
that is so vehement among British,
American and Australian writers, should
have been the first Western European
country to establish a department for the
protection of its artists and writers, their
livelihood and dignity.
The creation of a Ministry of Culture,
with full Cabinet rank, was in itself a
departure, and de Gaulle appointed to
the Ministry M. Malraux, himself a
novelist, art-critic and maker of films
of some standing. His programme, sup-
ported by a budget of roughly
£A4,500,000 this year, makes Australia’s
contribution to the Commonwealth
Literary Fund look small.
The heart of the organisation is the
Caisse Nationale des Lettres, which was
conceived long before the de Gaulle
regime came to office and born in 1957,
after 10 years of painful political labor.
It has three main objectives—to sub-
sidise the publication of highly academic
or rare works which publishers might
find it otherwise impossible to print; to
protect classics in French from being
unworthily bowdlerised, or produced in
forms, pictorial or otherwise (strip-car-
toons, films or lampoons), unworthy of
the great original. Finally, to provide
living-allowances for young writers,
which will relieve them of the necessity
of either starving or carrying on a second
profession which interferes with their
literary efforts.
In its role of encourager of the classics
the organisation has been subsidising
newly-edited editions of Renan and Vol-
taire, and a full edition of the corres-
pondence of Sainte Beuve. The help given
publishers in this section is in the form
of a conditional subsidy which must be
handed back if the book supported proves
profitable commercially.
Like the Society of Authors in Eng-
land, the Caisse supports writers who
need help in cases of breach of copy-
right, and works in close alliance with
the French Society of Writers to support
the law which provides that no matter
what contract a writer may make with
a publisher, or theatrical- or film-
producer, the copyright always remains
his property. It has sat down heavily on
exploiters of genius in several instances.
About half the funds available in the
budget goes to the encouragement of
dramatic and operatic works. One of
the plays by a young playwright
which it supported with a million-franc
subsidy became one of the runs of the
season. Among other activities which
it backs is the writing of operas for the
dozen or more State-controlled provincial
opera-companies. Films considered of
high cultural value get their share of
help.
The State Department spends nearly
£A40,000 a year on buying paintings and
sculpture; it even backs such artistic
enterprises as the Aubusson carpet-
weavers.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T\reariness of a two - hour wait in
a queue to obtain seats for Danny
Kaye was enlivened at one stage when
two men passing-by paused to stare at
us as if we were exhibits at the zoo.
“Can you understand people being such
mugs?” inquired one of his companions.
The gentleman just behind me in the
queue returned the critical stare; then
remarked loudly: “Half this morning’s
breakfast-egg at least left around that
moustache! Can you understand any-
one being able to afford such waste these
days?” The passer-by moved on, fur-
tively nibbling at the hairs decorating his
upper lip.—“ Pat.” .
❖ ❖ »>
“Lyn”: I wouldn’t know if this is the
zaniest of all toothache-cures (B.
24/6/’59), but it’s certainly the most
drastic. My husband and his mate
were dam-sinking in the ’thirties and the
mate developed a raging toothache. He
heated a piece of fencing-wire in the
campfire until it was red-hot and in-
structed my husband to jab it in the
hollow of the offending tooth. Most
reluctantly my husband did so. There
was an agonised roar as his mate shot
upwards like a rocket, but the toothache
stopped.
ifr ■<!&■
“Kaytee”: In Brisbane extra-curricular
coaching has grown into a £50,000-a-year
business. It is estimated that over 2000
children are attending coaching-classes.
On top of ordinary school-fees extra
coaching is costing some parents up to
£lOO a year, and the classes are provid-
ing employment for 50 full-time and over
500 part-time coaches. Those employed
full-time are being paid up to £2OOO
a year, compared with the £l5OO-odd
top staff-teachers in State schools receive..
Part-time coaches, many of whom teach
in private and State schools, are getting
up to £6 a week for their services. Fees
quoted for a year’s coaching of one
hour a week include: Senior (Leaving)
Maths., 24 guineas ; Senior English, 18
guineas ; most other subjects, 12 guineas.
♦> ♦> - ♦s*
“Q. Ree”: The Jet Age has come to
the Pacific. The first commercial jet,
Qantas’s Boeing 707 jet airliner, landed
at the Pacific stops on its way to Aus-
tralia. It had an enthusiastic reception
at all of them, but Honolulu really did
things in style. The jet was met by the
King and Queen and Lower Court, hula-
dancers, and a band ; a huge lei was hung
around the jet, and last, but not least,
helicopters scattered orchids on all.
“Corio”: Hollywood films, both on
screen and TV, appear to have caught-up
on Melbourne sporting - newspapers,
wherein £lOOO is now a “grand.” Soon
we’ll be hearing about “on the nose”
(to win) and “across the board” (backed
for a place).
»> »>
“Jesmondene”: Being addicted to an
old-fashioned hip-length astrakhan top-
coat Dad had made about 1913 in
Shanghai, I always on visits accompanied
by spouse had to doff it in the car before
ringing the doorbell. Now, what with
“My Fair Lady” and other influences
of Edwardian chic, I am encouraged to
wear it in for the edification of the
females and their admiring pinches.
*l* ♦> ♦>
“An Chuidh”: The Service Depart-
ment may be right in ascribing the origin
of the word “blarney” to the soft words
of the Lord of Blarney (B. 1/7/’59), but
Mac Kay’s Gaelic Etymology of the
English Language gives another origin.
The derivation is from bladhair (dh silent)
to flatter, nighean (gh silent) the girl.
Dr. Johnson derived it from the French
balivernes: lies and frivolous talk.
* *> i*
“Smithy”: The sale-season is on again
and here are a couple of choice bargains
collected in Tasmania during the “take-
it-and-I’ll-starve” campaign. An acquain-
tance got a job behind the counter to
help with the crush, and first job was
to remove the normal price-tickets from
a line of 355. shorts and pin-on super-
special labels. The new price of the
shirts was 355. Topping this was the
roughly-done sign in another window:
Stock-taking Sale.
Was 3s. 9d. bottle:
Now 4s. Id. bottle
One the limit.
BEER-MACHINES
“The Liquor and Allied Industries Union
having given two hotels using beer-vending
machines seven days to remove them, the
Hotel, Club and Restaurant Employees’ Union
is investigating the use of beer-vending machines
in licensed clubs.”
"Oh, barmaid, fill the flowing bowl,
And tell me stories rude and droll !”
"Oh, no, sir; I’m a beer-machine,
My repertoire’s precise and clean,
And I can tell you nothing but
What the bolt said to the nut,
Or how the spring, that gay deceiver,
Gave a tumble to the lever.’’
"I’ll drink no longer in your pub ;
I’ll go at once and join a club !”
"How disappointed you will be —
They’ve only beer-machines like me :
They ought to suit you, too, you drip,
You never have been known to tip !”
"What’s that? No waiters to ignore
Your call, when you’re demanding more ?
No change clanked out upon a tray
Defying taking it away ?
No more at table will l lurk, a
Patient, clipped, white-collar worker ;
But I’ll be what I should have been —•
A MincleE of a Beer-machine !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A couple of' Tasmanian bookmakers
who have each lost an eye made use
of one pair of binoculars between them
at a race-meeting recently, one using his
functioning right eye, the other his left
—so, as usual, the punter didn’t have a
look-in. —“Tasma, jnr.”
+*♦ +*♦
“Swelpme”: Somebody should inform
our American cousins that a little village
which has sprung-up on the banks of
the Tumut River because of the Snowy
River Scheme, is named Sue City—and
spelt that way. For years The Land of
the Free has been messing about with
our placcnames and our tried-and-true
words: plow, thru, center, program, air-
plane, etc., and treated our proper nouns
even more drastically. But did clarity
begin at home? It certainly did not!
Nobody ever saw “Illinoy” in print, or
“Arkansaw” spelt that way. And
although Yankee sports-commentators
called Joe Louis “Lewis,” with consider-
able confusion when they broadcast the
Louis-Lewis fight, St. Louis is invariably
spelt that way and just as invariably
pronounced “St. Looey.” As for apply-
ing the vaunted American simplification
policy to Sioux City—but this is where
I came in.
“Deegs”: My young lady friend, on
her way from bathroom to bedroom
along the back-veranda, heard the baker
approaching the back-door. Being in a
state of nature, she dived into a tall
cupboard which also served as a gas-
meter box. Holding her breath she was
dismayed to hear steps cross the floor,
was confronted, not by the baker, but
by the gas-man come to read the meter,
blurted “Oh! I was expecting the baker,”
and fled. The gas-bill was higher that
month than ever before, but she con-
soles herself that one of the following
reasons might apply:
1. The gas-man didn’t like naked women.
2. He was bemused by the whole affair
and couldn’t see properly to read the
meter.
3. He was jealous of the baker.
A typical woman, my friend leans to
the last reason, and as she is very shapely
and attractive, I agree.
♦>
“Narumee”: As to ancient remedies
(B. 8/7/’59), others, used by the most
reputable physicians from the 14th
century onwards were:
For snakebite and melancholia: a
bezoar-stone (a concretion formed in the
stomachs of goats). For nervous and wast-
ing diseases: usnea, a concoction of moss
scraped from the head of a criminal who
had died hung in chains. For dysentery:
the sole of the shoe of a man who had
walked a great deal, ground-up and taken
internally. For toothache: the patient’s
own urine. For healing wounds: ointment
composed of human blood and eunuch’s
fat. Even in the 17th century there was
little more enlightenment medically—that
Charles II was “an unconscionable time
a-dying” was miraculous in view of the
treatment his doctors wreaked upon him.
He was bled, cupped, given an emetic, a
purgative and an enema; and the whole
process was repeated after only two hours!
Then a blister was raised on his scalp,
sneezing-powder was administered, and a
plaster of pitch and pigeon-dung applied
"He apparently likes riding on trains!"
to the soles of his feet. As he didn’t seem
any better, the physicians had another go
at bleeding and purging. This almost
finished Charles, but he rallied to swallow
extract of human skull, and then pearl
julep and ammonia. Then he did die.
Wiser perhaps was James I, who refused all
treatment by physicians. Though he
suffered from colic, catarrh, diarrhoea,
rheumatism, gout, malaria, piles and rotten
teeth, at least he died without being bled!
*X* <* ❖
“G. 8.”: The press of the Western
world is busy acclaiming the triumphal
visit to Chicago of the Queen and the
Duke of Edinburgh, but one wonders
(as Political Points, B. 15/ 7/’59, wondered)
what the shade of Big Bill Thompson, a
former Mayor of Chicago, thinks of it
all; the big, blustering electioneer who
framed the slogan: “Keep King George
out of Chicago.” Moreover, that wild
and woolly slogan got Bill the mayoralty
—in the days of prohibition, when A 1
Capone was king!
❖ * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Youth takes its pleasures
more seriously these days. Teenage
dance-sessions on TV are remarkable for
the exponents never smiling while
dancing. Despite the lively steps and
rhythms, the kids’ faces are so glum
you’d think they were going on after-
wards to a funeral.
♦> ♦>
“Barra”: Overlooked an old-timer in
your doggerel Derby (B. 24/6/’59):
So help me bob,
Me mother’s a snob,
Me father takes in washing;
Me sister drives a billygoat cart,
And I do all the bossing.
“Bardon”: An elevator call-button
possesses a terrific fascination for about
80 per cent, of prospective passengers.
Such persons are extremely impatient,
or consider us already waiting as not
having sufficient intelligence to hail the
elevator per the call-button. One lift-
man, when I brought-up the subject,
observed dryly: “Our passengers are very
impatient. They all have pressing
appointments.” As an afterthought, he
added: “With me.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.A.A.”: When young Joe weighed-in
with a request that he be given part of
his annual holidays six months before
they were due, I asked: “Going on your
honeymoon?” Without batting an eyelid,
he came back: “She hasn’t saved-up
enough yet.”
* * *
“Bo”: Despite Unk White’s cover joke-
block (B. 15/7/’59), I would deem them
a resourceless brace of breakers-and-
enterers who failed to profit by the sight
of a streetful of houses whose inhabi-
tants are sitting with their eyes glued to
their TV-screens. Here is the ideal
set-up: the whole family is congregated
in the one room, all the doors of which
will be closed to keep the warmth from
fires or radiators in, and the rest of the
house will be in darkness. Easy ingress
thus assured, the jemmy-men need only
time their arrival to coincide with one
of the innumerable shootin’-’n’-tootin’
opuses and they can go about the selec-
tion of the loot leisurely, aware that


nothing less than an earthquake would
cause a TV-fiend to abandon the set in
mid-session. Moreover, they needn’t
bother about any noise they might make,
as this would be drowned by the crack
of six-shooters and the thunder of
hooves; indeed, the incidence of TV
must long ago have caused deep mis-
givings among manufacturers of rubber
s h° es -
A
“Piketrailer” (Bahrein): “Allygroh’s”
par. (B. 6/5/’59) about William Walton
being taken for the sponsor of a Sydney
store’s radio-orchestra reminded me of
“A bottle of beer and a pickle-sandwich.”
a remark now enshrined in the annals of
the School of Infantry, Warminster, on
the fringe of dour Salisbury Plain. Need-
less to say, the officers’ mess of this
Mecca of all good boots-and-gaiters foot-
sloggers has its walls well festooned with
oil-paintings of distinguished infanteers.
It all probably happened at something
like the Beagles’ Ball, when the scrub-
aristocracy, bright in beagle-green coats,
were there in force. A guest pointed to
a nearby martial painting. “Who’s
that?” Answered a proud infantry host:
“Slim.” Guest: “Slim who?”
A A
“Sanasi”: For many years I have been
intrigued with the call-signs of, in the
old days, telegraph-stations, and, latterly,
radio-stations. I can understand Adelaide
being A, Perth P and Lismore (N.S.W.)
LM, but how come South Australian
Minlaton being GF, Whyalla HH, Cowell
FH, Marree HG and Farina GU? The
explanations are: 1 was once called
Gum Flat. 2’s old name was Hummocky
Hill. 3 was before known as Franklin
Harbor. 4is from the HG in Hergott
(Springs). 5: when I was a boy the old-
timers always referred to this place as
“The Government Gums.”
* * *
“E.H.M.”: Asked the largest number
of boarders in any school in Australia,
“Tock Emma” (B l/7/’59) would be as
wrong as most when plumping for All
Souls up at Charters Towers (Q.). Go
south to Sleepy Hollow’s Geelong
Grammar School, which has 482
boarders in its senior school, plus 188
at junior school, and quite a number
more if the two prep.-schools, Bostock
House and Glamorgan, are included.
“O’Johnno”: Police got on the track
of a man who’d broken into a hotel at
Queenstown (Tas.) through a note which
he’d left signed “Black Bart”: “I hide
my face but not for shame, but to keep
the coppers from finding who to blame.”
The coppers managed to identify the
burglar-poet’s handwriting, however, and
duly collected him on three charges,
+ + »
v v v
“Narumee”: Had several letters from
inter-Stateites and friends in the U.K.
about The Weird Mob. Not one got
the spelling right. I found myself putting
the “i” first—can’t get that doggerel
about “ T before ‘e,’ except after ‘c’,’
°ut of mind!
* * *
“Pat”: Teachers beware! After
perusal of our 11-year-old daughter’s
half-yearly report we reproved her on her
low marks in English. Snatching back
the odious document, she scanned it
closely, then uttered in triumph: “She
hasn’t put in a full-stop or a comma, and
there isn’t a finite verb in her sentence!
How could I be expected to learn English
from a woman who doesn’t write it
properly?”
Some years ago I received a
letter —I’ve still got it:
Dear Doctor,
Please find the enclosed sum of £3 3s. I
owe.
I got this for doing-up some graves, so
I thought I would send it on to you,
I’m still wondering what he meant.
❖ ❖
“A.J.S.”: “O.G.’s” par (B. 8/7/’59)
will no doubt recall memories to many
World War I Diggers who knew the
Union Jack Club in Waterloo Road:
beds in long tiers down both sides and
the middle of the long dormitories were
to be had at 6d. a night. The club was
handy to Waterloo Station, and well
patronised. One piece of advice which
Diggers returning from leave passed-on
to those about to go was: “If you take
your boots off, make sure you lift-up
the head of the bed and plant one bed-leg
in each boot, or in the morning you’ll
be short one pair of Army boots.”
THE PARAGON
“Scientists who have been studying its life-
cycle and habits have concluded that the cray-
fish is the most sensitive of the family of
cnistacea.”
Once, any cray could chuff around
In deeps of ocean,
None caring if he ever found
That strong emotion
Imparted zest to life; if food
In plenty roused his gratitude ;
Or whether he’d be rendered rude
If his devotion
Were scorned by some too-crusty dame—
And then the march of science came,
His intimate love-life to reveal.
Well, ’struth !
They’ve handed him the rawest deal!
Observing lobsters at their play
Would mean unsealing
Of dispositions which, you’d say,
Were unappealing,
Of manner coarse to earn dispraise.
Crabs have the crudest water-ways.
Yabbies can never have the Cray’s
Delicate feeling,
The sympathetic soul of it
Making so rich a requisite.
Though Nature made it brazen-faced,
One must i
Freely admit the cray has taste!
Take a bow, cray ! You we select
For admiration
(Although we do our best to effect
Your decimation !).
Beneath that armor-plated rind
You’ve qualities of heart and mind.
Tender of thought, you are, we find,
The nice crustacean.
So, one thing of you we implore :
Keep your eyes skinned when you explore
Your salty realm. The trapper foiled—
Well, then,
You never can become hard-boiled!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Fun Amongst the Feathers
TAIL THAT BIRD!
By JACK LUSBY
All this bird-watching
that’s going on seems'
likely, before long, to
oust two-up as the
national pastime. Of course,
both occupations have some-
thing in common. Two-up is
frequently found in a rural
setting, and it pays great atten-
tion to strategically placed
cockatoos.
But some astounding figures
have been published about the
other kind of bird-watcher.
Like the Argentine-ant, he’s on
the march. He’s eating into
news-columns and magazine-
pages, and is tally-hoing joy-
ously to millions of mates all
over the planet.
It becomes more and more
difficult for those of us still
unattached to the organised
oglers to refrain from horning-
in with our own observations.
However, as man was ever a
bird-watcher, I daresay anyone
can have a go.
In this watching business the
birds are far better equipped
to spot the spotters than the
spotters are to see them.
Binoculars notwithstanding. A
bird’s eyes almost fill its skull,
leaving little room for grey-
matter, but giving the fowl
phenomenal vision. About the
uncanniest thing about a bird
is its eyesight. A kooka spot-
ting an underground grub by
some infinitesimal surface-
disturbance. An owl sweeping
silently onto a wee beastie -in
pitch darkness.
Not hard to imagine a mixed
bag of bird-watchers spending
long hours in frozen immo-
bility within camera-range of
the rare nest of a red-crested
throstle-twit, while the red-
crested throstle-twit keeps a
wary eye on the tableau from
a twig just a few feet above.
Matter of fact, a bird’s-eye
view of this kind of safari
would be worth renting a
branch for. Many bird-
watchers themselves are worth
watching.
Some watch with camera,
bifocal binoculars, camouflage
suits, shootin’-stools, note-
pads, identification-charts and
tweedy ladies. Some with
decoys, thigh-boots, twelve-
gauges, fleece-lined dogs, float-
ing fox-holes and flasks against
the chilly dawn. Some with
a jaundiced view as talkative
white wildfowl winnow the
wheat. Some with cries of
“Cummornyoubeaut! ” when
there are bets on the racing-
birds. Some cursing luridly
from tossing fishing-boats as
mollyhawks hijack the bait
before the lines hit the water.
But most of us, without going
out of our way specially, just
can’t help watching ’em when-
ever they’re there to be
watched.
TJirds have always figured
prominently in legend,
fable and song, and therein
some of the fowl come in for
libellous lampooning, while
others are boosted like the
latest in brassieres.
Children are brought up to
view the pelican as a figure of
fun, and can gabble a rhyme
to establish his gourmandising.
In flight this snatch-and-
grabber is one of the most
majestic of birds, and as a
formation-flyer he’s the daddy
of ’em all.
To be close to an echelon
of pelicans planing down for
a landing, in perfect line and
spacing and steady as Sky-
masters, is an experience that
sticks with you for quite a time.
Once saw a large dead tree
occupied by pelicans near the
Lachlan River (N.S.W.). They
seemed to be perched closely
along every branch. Then one
by one they began to take-off.
Pelican by pelican and branch
by branch the tree was cleared
as though a churchwarden were
ushering them from their seats.
In the same orderly fashion
they lined-up aloft and sailed
away for supper.
As a much-watched bird the
albatross must rank with the
park pigeon. Ships’ rails have
been worn down by the elbows
of countless generations of
ocean-goers gazing at the
effortless gyrations of this
graceful ocean-goer. Ripple-
high he follows the watery
contours and, with one wing-
tip almost cutting the surface,
careens over the crests in a
never-ending search for sus-
tenance. Without moving a
feather he seems able to follow
the fastest ships for a fort-
night at a stretch. When bore-
dom sets in far out at sea
there’s always the albatross as
a subject for speculation.
A s the most dour and serious-
minded of birds I nomi-
nate the kookaburra. No
playful aerobatics or pranks
for him. No fancy stuff. He’s
strictly a beeline boy. Beeline
plunge on his breakfast, bee-
line vertical zoom, after
picking-up speed, for a pre-
selected branch or twig giving
a good view of his feeding-
ground. Beeline flight through
thick timber where you’d think
weaving and dodging would be
inescapable. The kookaburra
would make a good chess-
player. He never makes an
unconsidered move and he has
sphinx-like patience.
As evidence of the kooka’s
straight-line complex, have
seen him fly right through a
large house when both front
and back doors were open.
Obviously this route was the
most direct on that occasion.
The kooka never shows-off,
but he’s a mighty skilful flyer.
In full flight—and a direct and
determined flight it is—he can
snap a very small piece of raw
meat away from your out-
stretched thumb and finger
without touching you. A tent-
pegging Sikh at full gallop
needs a similar nicety of
judgment.
Again, the kookaburra com-
mands surely one of the widest
ranges of bird “talk.” Apart
from the raucous dawn and
dusk tocsins which give him
his name, he uses a surprising
range of conversational sounds
to cope with varying situa-
tions. If he’s looking for a
handout at your own mealtime
you’ll hear a heavy out
on your veranda-rail. Then a
low, throaty, almost furtive
“Kwark kwark,” for all the
world like an abo. asking for
a bottle of plonk at the back
door of a bush pub. Perhaps
kooka stage-whispers on these
occasions because he doesn’t
want to attract competition for
what’s offering. But if you’re
generous he’ll bring the whole
(Continued on page 44)


POLITICAL POINTS
They’re calling the two new traffic-
lanes on the east side of Sydney Harbor
Bridge the Billy Graham Expressway.
You have to make your decision before
you get onto it.
• •
Some sections of the daily press believe
that because the negotiators are giving
each other dinners, preliminary to the
Geneva Big Four [resumed] Conference,
the fate of “East Germany may be
settled over the dining-table.” If some-
body could get the whole Kremlin polit-
bureau together and feed it strontium 90
it might; but no lesser menu will suffice.
• •
Apophthegm uttered by Judge Bruxner
in Sydney during the trial of an unfor-
tunate secretary-manager who had been
moved to steal after losses on a one-
armed bandit at a highly respectable
Sydney golf-club: “Anyone who thinks
he can win on poker-machines ought to
be locked-up.” Somebody should frame
it and present it to the Premier of N.S.W.
on his birthday.
• •
Rylah is stalling against claims by
the Council of Progress Associations for
80 per cent, of this year’s petrol-tax
reimbursements to be available for road-
works in Melbourne, since 62 p.c. of
all registered Victorian motor-vehicles
are in the metropolitan area, which
receives only five per cent, of the total
allocation.
Drivers on some of the choppy roads
in the industrial suburbs and on outer
suburban roads must be surprised that
as much as five per cent, was allocated
to Melbourne, especially if they haye
also driven on some of the splendid
stretches looked after by the Country
Roads Board in the far east and far west.
• •
Are they the same at home? Yes,
unfortunately. E. A. Lewis, manager of
the Victorian Employers’ Federation
secretariat, returned to Melbourne from
a U.S. trip appalled at the American
instalment-credit system and the apparent
pleading of the U.S. banks to people to
take loans ; but the new chairman of the
Australian Bankers’ Association, H. G.
Ensten (apparently on behalf of the
international prestige of bankers), invited
him to look at local hire-purchase com-
panies—virtually pleading to lend money
—and on an unsecured basis.
• •
After an earnest investigation by hard-
breathing sleuths, Mr. Delaney, Chief
Commissioner of N.S.W. Police, has
been forced to announce in despair that
he could not discover how a secret
Cabinet document, framed by the Minis-
ter for Labor and Industry, came to be
photostated and served-out in some num-
bers to unions and the press. Seeing
the amount of movement and organisa-
tion that should be involved in photo-
stating and distributing a secret Cabinet
document, it does not seem to speak
wonders for the acumen of a Force which
prides itself that it nearly always gets
its, man. Perhaps it asked the wrong
people.
1 • •
The fashion with the Sydney press at
the moment is to hold-up municipal
life around the city as a sink of corrup-
tion. For once it appears to have some
substance behind its charges. The
odorous tales that rise from around the
green-belt are enough. But it is a good
axiom that the public gets the aider-
men it deserves. And there can hardly
be corrupt aldermen or officials without
corrupt citizens.
• •
[From Canberra]
The war-time wool-marketing scheme
known as loint Organisation has been
finally wound-up and there is still
£2,400,000 of Australian woolgrowers’
money in kitty. Under the terms of
the Wool Realisation Act, this will be
paid into the Wool Research Trust Fund
and used in a programme of sheep-and-
wool research aimed at more efficient
production - methods for the grower,
technological assistance for the manufac-
turer and higher-quality, easier-care gar-
ments for the consumer. Minister for
Primary Industry Adermann said that
research of the type planned was essen-
tial if wool was to maintain its pre-
eminence in the apparel-fibre market.
• •
“Mugga Way”: As a shipload of
Russians from China, sponsored by the
Council of Churches, neared Sydney, I
learned details of some distressing cases
among families which have not as yet
succeeded in escaping. The Chinese
hatred of white people is being expressed
against these mostly unoffending and
industrious folk, who are mainly
refugees from Bolshevism, and many
are now being compelled to return to
Russia. Their fate in such instances can
be imagined.
• *•
“Collins Street”: Arthur Calwell is
now rated Federal Labor’s best per-
former on TV, an important asset in his
dogged battle for the leadership. His
latest effort on HSV 7, Melbourne, was
his fourth “Meet-the-Press,” and he loves
it.
His sharp profile and rugged features
are assets on the small screen ; he is less
easily rattled than the Doctor, and when
he sees the curly ones coming up he can
duck effectively for cover.
Maturity has brought a little wisdom
to Calwell, and a shade more liberal out-
look, but he is still a handicap in winning
the swinging voter. He came-up with the
views that General Motors-Holden’s,
alone of Australian companies, should
pay a capital-gains tax; that only the
D.L.P. stopped the A.L.P. winning the
last Federal election ; and that he is truly
opposed to unity-tickets
“You fellows going anywhere?”


If there is anything in the alleged
leakages from Cabinet about the Budget
proposals of the Federal Government,
now decided, the taxpayers will not do
so badly considering the price-slump last
year. Rises in old-age and invalid pen-
sions, cuts in sales-tax, especially on
consumer-goods, increase in repatria-
tion and medical and hospital benefits,
removal of the remaining 6d. of the
surtax on company-tax imposed in
March, 1956, “liberalisation” of plant-
and-equipment depreciation allowances
and of payroll-tax and further easing of
the pensions means-test —these are the
main foreshadowed proposals. Perhaps
the most astonishing thing about Aus-
tralian Budgets is the way in which the
secret details leak-out of a Cabinet and
civil service pledged to secrecy.
• •
Khrushchev, during his wanderings
among the captive nations of Eastern
Europe, chided Franco for having taken-
over the Spanish Government in a sea
of blood. Presumably his tirade was
written in Hungarian with a Red Army
flamethrower. Or would Tibetan be a
more appropriate language for his senti-
ments?
© 0
It becomes clearer that politics in
Indonesia are a struggle between the
Army and the Commuhists, with Soe-
karno as the tug-o’-war rope. The Com-
munists are complaining bitterly about
the ban on political activity—which is
the very first thing they themselves ban
when they take office —but their attitude
is not more ironic than Soekarno’s own
talk of “liberating” West New Guinea
from the mild rule of the Dutch, while
at the same time imposing the political
ban at home.
0 0
While in the new Asian countries the
word “colonialism” is one of the dirtiest
in the dictionary, and is linked in oppro-
brium with “imperialism,” there is still a
strong feeling in Britain that the system
has much in its favor. Colonial Secretary
Lennox-Boyd told members of Britain’s
overseas civil service in London the other
day that existence of great Dominions
which passed-out of Britain’s care was a
triumphant vindication of colonial policy
and work. Britain was in alliance, he
said, with the colonial peoples in the
advance to orderly self-government and
in a common struggle agains poverty,
disease and ignorance, and against those
outside the Commonwealth “who seek
the destruction of all we have jointly
achieved.”
0 0
John Galbally, Labor Leader in the
Victorian Council, who is much better-
travelled than the average politician (and
at his own expense), has lately been in
the Far East, and has returned to suggest
that Australian schools should foster an
interest in Oriental languages. In less
than 30 years, he predicts, every second
person in the world will be Chinese. To
Krusch, looking apprehensively over his
“Simply answer ‘Yes’ or 'No’!”
left shoulder, almost every second person
in the world already is Chinese.
• •
Only 300 turned-up in Melbourne to
hear the public debate between E. L.
(“Ginger”) Burke, public-relations officer
for the Victorian Associated Brewers,
on one side of the bar, and the Rev.
John Westerman and W. W. Saunders,
general secretary of the Victorian Local
Option Alliance, on the other, on
whether drunks are responsible for most
road deaths.
Honors were even, as may have been
expected ; and probably the churchmen
turned-up to help draw public attention
to the subject, especially the changes
they want in the law. There is a covert,
sustained campaign in Victorian politics
for compulsory blood-tests, especially by
officials.
e •
“L. 8.5.”: N.Z.’s five trading-banks,
five Trustee Savings Banks, and Post
Office Savings Bank are waging a gentle-
manly but keen war for deposits. The
Trustee group (Auckland, New Plymouth,
Invercargill, Dunedin and Hokitika) are
an interesting but solid survival from
early colonial days. When Reserve Bank
governor E. C. Fussell recently opened
a sixth, at Hamilton, he remarked that
it was the first for 92 years. Total
deposits of £5B million are about a
quarter of those in the P. 0.5.8. which in
turn lags a little behind the trading-
banks. The Trustees are of material help
to local bodies in their districts.
• •
According to Dr. Zubrzychi, who is
a Fellow of the Research School of
Social Sciences at Canberra National
University-, getting the desired number
of superior migrants into Australia will
become increasingly difficult for a few'
years.
He inaugurated a series of lectures
arranged by the Melbourne Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce with reminders of the
strong bids for migrants being made by
Canada and Brazil in particular, the
successful operation of the common mar-
ket between Italy and France, and the
still-potent attraction of the U.S. Still,
European intellectuals are gloomy
fellows, especially about Australia.
• •
The imaginative “Tarzan” character on
Whitsunday Island (N.Q.) who has been
fooling the press with his stories would
probably do well as editor of a Sydney
daily. He seems to be able to supply
just the sort of thing the dailies want.
• •
The Cahill Government is proposing
to consider serving the public with taxi-
buses which will call from door to door
by appointment. The scheme is being
forced on the Transport Department
because the inefficiency of present public
transport and the dictatorial surliness
of some department employees has
broken-down the law against privately-
owned cars carrying passengers. In most
Sydney suburbs there are dozens of
private-car owners carrying their friends
to work regularly.
• •
[From Canberra]
The Commonwealth, to its credit, has
decided to extend social-services—age,
invalid and widows’ pensions and
maternity-benefits to all aborigines
except nomadics and primitives. Cost
to the Government will be about £1
million extra a year. The decision was
reached after consultation with the State
Governments and aborigine-welfare
organisations. It means the extension
of pensions to about 4000 aborigines
throughout Australia, while 1200 will
become eligible for the maternity allow-
ance.
Aborigines to which the benefits are
to be extended are already eligible for
child-endowment and sickness and unem-
ployment benefits, but the extension will
bring them into line with all other mem-
bers of the community. The benefits
would be paid to the aborigines either
in cash or partly in cash and partly offer-
ing better accommodation, living condi-
tions, food and clothing. This, principle
already operates in the case of many
pensioners who live in homes. They
receive 30s. in cash a week, while the
remainder goes towards their upkeep in
the homes.


Personal
ITEMS
New chief of the C.5.1.R.0., Dr. F. W.
White has had previous experience of
the post during absence overseas of his
predecessor, Sir lan Clunies-Ross. A
former Professor of Physics at Canter-
bury University (N.Z.), White first came
to Australia in 1941 to help with radar-
equipment for the Allied forces. After
this he became chief of the radio-physics
section of the C.5.1.R.0.; but his chief
interest has always been biological re-
search, and he’s paid a lot of attention
to the various wool-research laboratories
set-up here.
• •
“E. & 0.E.”: Sir lan Clunies - Ross
may have been Sydney-born (B.
26/6/’59), but he had at least four
generations of forebears with head-
quarters at Hobart. They were all good
seamen, owners and commanders, and
not even “a great scientist and a great
public servant”—as Sir lan was —could
have wished for a better foundation and
background.
• •
“K.R.”: Ken Mackay, of Dungog
(N.S.W.), is acknowledged as one of the
best polo-players in Australia. At the
carnival at Warwick Farm he led Scone
to victory in the Garvin Cup, scoring
four of his side’s six goals in the final.
In a carnival in April he led a team,
N.S.W. Whites, which won the Hayward
Bowl ; in the final his team had to con-
cede six goals, and won 13-12 after two
extra chukkas, Mackay getting five goals.
Mackay has been playing top-class polo
for 30 years. In 1936-37 he went to
India with the four well-known polo-
playing Ashton brothers on a business
and playing venture. For a while after
World War II he played for Wiragulla,
which won the Countess of Dudley Cup
six times in not many more years.
• •
“C.H.R.”: Two brothers —three, in
fact, because there’s Sir Kenneth, of
Sydney, also—-like the Coles (B. 1/7/’59)
being knighted is rare, but father and
son is rarer. Langdon Bonython, owner
of Adelaide “Advertiser” until it sold-
out to Melbourne “Herald,” and his son
Lavington were both knighted, though
not in the same year. The son was Lord
Mayor of Adelaide.
• •
Warren McDonald lately appointed
chairman of the board of the Common-
wealth Banking Corporation —is inter-
ested in an uncommonly wide range of
subjects, and, whatever he talks about,
he has deep knowledge and definite
views, and a knack of imparting those
views in clear, simple language, seasoned
with a subtle humor. The main impres-
sion in meeting him, though, is that he
has allowed himself enough time to deal
with whatever he has to discuss, and that
he knows where he’s going and why. It
all adds-up to the fact that he’s got
organising-ability to the nth degree.
Born at Penguin, near Burnie (Tas.),
and educated at Launceston Grammar,
McDonald started work as a cadet-
engineer on the Speck’s hydroelectric
project and then, after some experience
as assistant to the shire-engineer at
Camperdown (Vic.), struck-out on his
own as a civil-engineer. At 27 he got
his first contract for building 10 miles
of the Federal Highway between Can-
berra and Goulburn. This was a success,
and within a few years he had all the
contracts he wanted in Sydney and had
formed a company, which is now con-
trolled by McDonald Industries, Ltd.,
WARREN McDONALD
and is at present undertaking large
construction-works, notably in the
development of Port Kembla. On the
outbreak of War II he started-off as
Sapper McDonald and finished a briga-
dier, chief-engineer of II Corps—with a
string of roads and bridges left behind
in the Middle East and the Islands, to
show he’d been that way. Back in civil
life, he started doubling the carrying-
capacity of a couple of grazing-properties
he’d leased as a hobby-job.
In 1951 McDonald (pictured here by
Ted Scorfield, another old sapper) was
appointed to the National Airways Com-
mission, which operates T.A.A. He’s
been chairman of this commission for
the last three years, and under his leader-
ship T.A.A. has enhanced its reputation
for safety and efficiency. Now he expects
to spend some months “tying-up a few
things” in aviation —in fact, re-equipping
T.A.A. and extending its services—before
he hands-over to his successor and takes-
up his full duties with the bank.
Those are some of the lives of Warren
McDonald. He’s also a council-member
of the Australian National Uni. and,
appropriately, chairman of their building-
committee. As to this new banking job:
“With T.A.A., I’ve concentrated on ways
and means of developing Australia, and
my new job offers me similar oppor-
tunities.” Rest assured he’ll take them.
• •
Basil Cronin, music-master at Foots-
cray Technical College, is leaving Mel-
bourne in August on a Fulbright teacher-
exchange grant for a year’s study and
teaching in the U.S. He graduated
Bachelor of Music from Melbourne
University after serving in the R.A N.
cipher section during the war. He has
been music-master at Footscray Tech,
for more than 10 years, and he also
conducts the Sea Cadets.
• •
Everybody in the Australian literary
world will miss Vance Palmer ; for he
and Nettie, with their quiet courtesy,
their enthusiasm for all things Australian
and their steadfast pursuit of the literary
life were everywhere recognised as a
centre of cultural vitality. The last time
the present writer saw Vance —at this
year’s Book Fair in Melbourne sun-
tanned, silver-haired, at once informal
and well-groomed in tweeds —he looked
the very picture of a distinguished Aus-
tralian man-of-letters, equally ready to
adorn a literary gathering, to lecture
round outback Queensland for the Com-
monwealth Fund, or to go fishing at
Caloundra. And his career certainly was
distinguished : ballads, poems, biography,
criticism, novels and short-stories, always
of high quality and, if sometimes too
level in tone to strike forcefully home,
rising at times, especially in The Passage
and some of the short-stories, to a rich-
ness and intensity that should make them
permanent. The Passage won a Bulletin
novel-competition in 1929 ; Men are
Human was among the prizewinners a
year earlier; and The Bulletin also
published, as well as many of his verses
and short-stories, Legend for Sanderson
in serial form. He died suddenly in Mel-
bourne last week, at 74.
• •
Captain of Australia’s first Boeing 707,
A. E. (“Bert”) Yates, was born at Marsh-
dale, near Dungog (N.S.W.). He was
so eager to become an airman that he
used to go rabbiting after school to earn
money to learn flying with Newcastle
Aero Club (before it got its Royal prefix).
• •
The trustees of the estate of poet
William Baylebridge in Sydney have
awarded the 1958 Grace Leven £lOO prize
for poetry to Geoffrey Dutton for his
book Antipodes in Shoes. A. G. Army-
tage, managing-director of Perpetual
Trustee Company, Ltd., announcing
the award on behalf of the trustees, said


it had been described as “distinguished
and at times brilliant poetry.”
Geoffrey Dutton, now 37, was born
at Kapunda, S.A., and is the author of
one other book of poetry, Nightflight and
Sunrise; a novel, The Mortal and the
Marble; and three books of travel —
A Long Way South, Africa in Black and
White, and States of the Union. When
he is not driving to impossible places in
impossible motor - cars, Dutton is lec-
turer in English at Adelaide University
and a co-editor of “Australian Letters.”
He’s a member of the well-known
pastoral family; and his poems are
occasionally to be seen in The Bulletin.
The Grace Leven prize is given under
the will of the Queensland - born poet
William Baylebridge, who died in 1942.
It is for Australian-born writers, includ-
ing naturalised Australians if they have
lived in Australia for not less than 10
years.
• «
R. G. Lund, who is taking - over as
chairman of the International Wool
Secretariat, started as a journalist in
New Zealand, joining the secretariat in
1947 as N.Z. representative on the Wool
Board ; chairman, 1950-52. He’s been a
board-member of the Wool Bureau, New
York, since it was established in 1949.
• «
Literary callers at The Bulletin last
week included a Canadian professor,
Reg Watters, who has been here for
some time studying Australian literature
and lecturing about Canadian; Elyne
Mitchell, bringing a breath of snow
down from the Alps with her, and the
news that “sooner or later” she will have
a sequel to her children’s book The
Silver Brumby ; and C. P. Mountford,
who has been far away from his usual
outback haunts, studying palaeolithic
art in Europe to see if it had any con-
nection with aboriginal (it didn’t), and
who hopes next year to write something
about aboriginal creation-myths centred
round Ayers Rock, Mt. Olga and Mt.
Conner.
• •
“Jock”: Vincent Fazio, who has cele-
brated his 94th birthday at Tuncurry
(N.S.W.), is regarded as “father” of the
fishing-industry around Cape Hawke. He
was an officer in the Italian Navy before
he came to Australia in 1892.
• a
The ’Wales has made one of its
engaging officers, William Thomas
Axford, manager in Victoria. Although
he was a Camperdown (Vic.) boy, he
has spent most of his bank days in
N.S.W. and London, and has reached
the bank’s upper hierarchy rather earlier
than most.
He ran the bank’s Threadneedle Street
and Berkeley Square offices in London
during the war and was assistant-manager
in Melbourne soon after his return ; but
the ’Wales took him back to Sydney to
supervise the opening of its savings-bank.
His habitual pleased expression has rather
deepened since his son was dux of Sydney
Scots last year.
Past-president of the Associated Stock
Exchanges of Australia, and of the Aus-
tralasian Pioneers’ Club as well, Ralph
William King (pictured) was born in
Sydney, became a public accountant in
1910, and in 1917-18 was Deputy Federal
Prices Commissioner for N.S.W. Elected
to Sydney ’Change in 1926, he was its
chairman from 1952-56. Now he’s chair-
RALPH KING
man of Short Term Acceptances Pty.,
Ltd., and of W. Watson and Sons, Ltd.
Incisive and very much to the point,
Ralph King holds strong views about
Australia’s economy and the relative
strengths and weaknesses of foreign
money-markets. He thinks there are
great possibilities for investment from
abroad in Australia, and advocated this
very strongly when he visited England
in 1956. His son, Lieut.-Colonel Gordon
King—a partner in the firm, with the
unusual qualification for a stockbroker
of being an architect—has just returned
from a business-visit to Malaya, Singa-
pore, Hong Kong and Japan.
• •
One of the Victorian Treasury’s back-
room boys, Alan Penrose, will retire
next Friday. He has spent almost all
of his public-service life, since 1912, in
the Treasury or State Audit Office, but
he was Deputy Director of Rationing for
the Commonwealth during the last war
and chairman of Food
Reserves. He retires as Accountant to
the Treasury and State Co-ordinator of
Works.
For many years he was a breeder of
pointers; he became interested in the
breed because he was a keen shot,
especially in the quail country. He still
breeds poultry at his Hampton home,
where Buff Leghorns and Rhode Island
Reds are his specialities. The Egg Board
requires registration of 40 or more birds ;
with his lifetime devoted to figures, he is
always able to have 39! He lends the
Royal Agricultural Society a hand on
the poultry and kennel-control sub-
committees.
“Collins Street”: Inspector E. C. J
James, well known as Bluey, has just
retired from the Victorian Police Force
after 36 years in licensing, gaming,
vice and similar squads ; he was super-
visor of licensing-inspectors when he went
out. He had been president of the police
R.S.L. sub-branch twice and president of
the Police Association twice, and he was
the last Anzac in the Force ; he was 17
when he served with the Second Field
Co. Engineers on Gallipoli and in Egypt
and France.
Bluey James is a shrewd fellow who
was one of the most popular policemen
in Victoria, probably because he knew
when the letter of the law was irksome
and disliked. The last time I saw him
on the job was at “Rusty Bugles” at the
then King’s Theatre. Some of the —er —
ad-libbing of the cast went a little beyond
the permitted “bastards” and “bloodys”
used by the author, and there were
complaints. There was no ad-libbing that
night. The inspector sat in the front-
row of the theatre, with a policewoman
taking notes. You couldn’t miss them.
• •
Formerly chaplain (for 11 years) to
the Newcastle (N.S.W.) Mission to Sea-
men, Canon Ivor Skelton is off to the
quinquennial conference of chaplains at
Keble College, Oxford. The Canon was
chaplain in the A.I.F. in War I, and
with the R.A.N. from 1925-30, as well
as serving in H.M.A.S. Albatross.
He’s also been Rector of Cardiff and
Bulahdelah (N.S.W.) and Darwin (N.T.).
At Darwin his parish included the whole
of the Territory.
• •
Officials of the Miners’ Federation have
to retire at 60, the same as colliery
workers. Latest official to go is F. H.
Cockerill, vice-president of the Northern
Miners’ Federation at Newcastle (N.S.W.).
He had held the post for 10 years.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 43, William Francis Marien,
p.-r.-o. for the Chamber of Manufactures, and
former journalist and war-correspondent.
In Melbourne, at 78, Ben Rieusset, veteran
of the business-staff of West Australian News-
papers, Ltd. He opened the paper’s branch-
offices in Fremantle, Sydney and Melbourne,
was a foundation-member of the committee of
the Audit Bureau of Circulations and a member
of the Australian Newspaper Proprietors’
Council.
In Dubbo (N.S.W.), the Rev. Montague
D’Arcy Collins, Bishop Coadjutor of the
Bathurst Anglican diocese.
At Brisbane, at 55, J. H. F. Moran, ex-
R.A.A.F. squadron-leader in War II and former
State tennis-player in the Linton Cup series.
He established Moran Motors, Ltd., at
Southport.
At Annerley (Q.), at 70, James Howard,
retired sergeant-of-poljce; known to unruly
American servicemen during War II as “the
sheriff of Brisbane.”
In Sydney, Norbert Wentzel, musician,
teacher, composer and foundation-member of
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra. His works
included “The Warriors” and the “Darwin”
Overture, which incorporated aboriginal themes.
His “Spring” Symphony for toy percussion-
instruments, recorders and strings was lately
recorded at 2SM. He won the major prize
in this year’s Wangaratta Music Festival for his
vocal setting for Psalm 117.


ABORIGINALITIES
STEAM DAYS —DIESEL DAYS
By PAUL CARROLL
Tf there is one thing unaltered in the
-*■ change-over from steam- to diesel-
locomotives it’s the call for a good brew
of tea ; a lubrication for the engine-crew
no less important than, that * which the
railways supply for the engine. Making
of the brew from the chromium-plated
kettle of the diesel is like embracing a
new religion. To the old-timers, staunch
to the black billycan in the firebox, it’s
plain heresy. Even so, in this new era
of the footplate, the only connecting link
with the old seems to be the billy of tea.
For all the ruggedness, the steam days
were not without many compensations.
For instance, a delectable T-bone steak
garnished with mushrooms, diced onion
“ Somethin' keeps takin the bait”
and sliced potato became a glorious
reality when the preparation was wrapped
in stout brown paper and placed on the
hot boiler-plating to slowly cook for
three hours. And who would despise
the fire-shovel after sausages, bacon and
eggs fried on the “banjo” blade? Fish
was easily steamed by keeping the sur-
rounding paper damp against the boiler ;
green peas and beans were treated the
same way. Then there were potatoes,
whole and unskinned, baked till a hard
crust allowed them to be halved and
buttered, then scooped out with a spoon.
Not to mention sugared-apples done to
a nicety. And there was a fragrance only
achieved by boiling the billy in the open
firebox.
Footplate discipline ranked a dirty
billycan among the most heinous of loco,
sins. Although a constant ritual, it was
a simple one to keep the billy coated on
the outside with a film of soap; hence
the fire-blackening only affected the coat-
ing, which was easily removed in hot
water. Needless to say it was grounds
for murder if any soap contaminated the
interior of the billy.
Somehow, there was also a certain
personification in a steam - locomotive ;
inexplicable, yet truly illustrated by the
fact that the diesel is always referred to
as “it” and the steam-engine as “she.”
I suppose the scientific analyst would
reason that the steam-engine relies so
much upon manual control, both in
generating steam-power and the hand-
operation of its valves, that a degree of
sentiment must creep in. But we could
never accept mere sentiment for a fire-
man alternately coaxing and cursing
his boiler to make steam and water on
a tough gradient of the track. His “Come
on, old girl, another pound or two will
have your safety-valves sizzling! ” or
“You rotten old slug!” as he brandished
the shovel, hardly seemed an address to
an impersonal lump of metal.
And, likewise, a driver’s vibrating grip
on the steam-throttle is peculiarly
sensuous ; a medium between one living
creature and another that clearly tells
the driver whether his loco, is “with him”
or “agin him.” The prevalent mood of
a steam-locomotive is “felt” the moment
an engineman steps on the footplate.
Many are the instances of a driver
handing-over to a relief-crew a loco, that
defies management. Then, with the relief-
crew on board, the same loco, puts on
its best performance! A change of crew
and a change of mood; synonymous
with the very contrariness of our own
human nature.
However, even the most avid senti-
mentalist falls convinced to practical
evidence, and the truth is that dieselisa-
tion has humanised, in many ways, the
lot of the engine-crew. The cab of a
diesel is a Utopia. Shelter is complete.
Temperature is controlled. Vision is ideal
through a large windscreen which allows
an unrestricted view of the signals and
track ahead. The very controls can be
moved with a flick of the finger, com-
pelling electro-hydraulic and pneumatic
relays to take-over the burden of opera-
tion. Then there are such comforts as
wash-basins—and lavatories!
And the fireman? —God bless him.
Well, has not the bricklayer discarded
the hod? And does not the roadmaker
now make use of the excavator in place
of the pick and shovel? Should the
office-worker ignore the calculating-
machine? At last the fireman is emanci-
pated ; and, anyway, the name for the
bloke in the job remains unchanged.
There, side by side with his old steam-
driver mate, who has admirably adapted
himself to a new traction, the fireman
learns to be the diesel driver of the future.
It is hard at any time to give evidence
against an old friend, but the court of
mechanics is resolute and impersonal.
So the case in favor of mechanical
efficiency commits steam to permanent
exile and diesel to the throne, mainly
by our own tributes, in the form of faster
timetables and heavier loads.
Nor is our change of allegiance mis-
placed. The reward goes far beyond the
footplate. A cleaner job means less
drudgery in the laundry of the home.
Diesel efficiency creates shorter and regu-
lar hours, and, combined with the absence
of physical tiredness, means an aware-
ness of a greater affinity with wife and
family. Now, as never before, the oppor-
tunity for social and cultural enjoyment
emerges for the engine-crew.
* * * *
“Pieter Nuyts”: The penguins’ habit
of falling forward (B. 1/7/’59) isn’t, as
“E.0.E.” suggests, an instinctive urge
towards camouflage. It’s their method
of hurrying —they slide on their chests,
and on ice that’s a particularly fast mode
of travel for a bird that can’t fly. What
isn’t so understandable is the same trait
in the musk-duck. These birds, com-
pletely at home in the water and amongst
Nature’s finest divers, can fly, and do
when they’re forced to, although they
make it look like hard work. They can
also walk —but only just. At every second
or third step they fall forward and
appear to be trying to slide, particularly
when they’re in a hurry. I attribute it
to their instinctive diving-habit or the
fact that they’re top-heavy through




having their legs so far to the rear and
their wings reduced to little more than
stumps. But there may be a more com-
plex reason ; and it may be connected
with the fact that, like the penguin, the
musk-duck has a stiff, spiny tail.
* # * *
“Bogan Bill”: There’s said to be a
champion damper-maker (ashes-style)
along the Dawson River (C.Q.) who
refuses to divulge his recipe. As a
damper - maker —by force of circum-
stance —for many years, I didn’t know
there was a recipe. However, I don’t
think he has anything on an old lubra
I once saw baking the breakfast johnnie-
cakes. Operating with the usual sheet
of bark and heap of flour, she used both
hands for kneading; when more
moisture was required she’d take a
mouthful of water and spray it on the
dough. Very effective, no doubt, but I
didn’t stay for breakfast.
* * * *
“Septulm”: At Millaroo (N.Q.), where
thrive those champ termites Mastotermes
darwiniensis, the C.5.1.R.0. is researching
recipes of discouragement to the pests,
which, chew even ironbark with fine
appetite. The moderator of this project
nominally should be happier consorting
with marine- rather than land-attacking
wood-destroyers ; he is I. E. Barnacle.
He says that, for durability in Northern
Australia, pine-poles which accept full
chemical-penetration might, in survival-
performance, exceed our best hardwoods,
which have limited preservative-
acceptance.
* * * *
“Effemay”: In the view of owners of
newly-acquired working-dogs, that hard
substance taken from a horse’s foreleg
was much more effective in inducing in
a pooch an affectionate regard for its
new master than as a toothache dis-
pelier (B. 24/6/’59). But perhaps it was
the fear of having inflicted on it more
than one dose of the stuff that caused
the change of heart!
“ttad a wizard of a dorg once,” said
the old bushman. “All I had to do
was to say to him, ‘Right-oh, boy, go an’
cut a hundred sheep from that mob over
there and bring ’em here.’ Then I’d
shove me cady on the ground and place
a gibber beside it. Laddie’d bring the
woollies over, an’ sure enough there’d
be a hundred —never one over or under.
Then, to show he’d finished the job, he’d
put the gibber in the hat. Thought I’d
try to trick" him one day, so I put
50 ewes in the yard and says, ‘Right-
oh, boy, I want 100 of them sheep.
Bring ’em! ’ Then I nicked-off behind
a shed, an’ peeped round at him after
he’d brought the whole lot. Yair, there
he was, squattin’ on his hunkers beside
me hat, trying’ to bite the rock in half!”
—“Olivia.”
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: Future generations may
regret the loss of veranda-posts along
Australian streets (B. 24/6/’59), but still
more will such country towns as my own
regret the unnecessary removal of the
mounting-blocks and hitching-rails which
have both followed Dobbin into oblivion.
These made picturesque additions to the
scene and really troubled no one except
the civic fathers who Ordered their
removal. Compare this with the careful
preservation in London of such things
as the porters’ rest-shelf alongside the
Piccadilly-end of Green Park, where men
with loads on their backs could rest
their burdens.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Frankipile construction
has come to Australia, bringing our
building-methods abreast with the most
modern overseas. Designed to make
foundations safe in even the most
treacherous ground, the new method is far
superior to the old practice of driving
concrete or wooden piles into the ground
until they were deemed to have encount-
ered enough resistance to support the
load, and chancing any weaknesses which
could develop from changes in climatic
conditions. In the new method no pile
is used for the driving process; a steel
ram inside a steel cylinder is set-up over
a few shovelfuls of semi-dry concrete.
A piledriver hammering the top of the
ram forces the spearhead of concrete
down and down until secure resistance
is established. Ram and cylinder are then
withdrawn, the pad of concrete extracted,
and the foot of the hole expanded to
form a wider “footing.” Steel reinforce-
ment-rods are placed vertically in the
hole, and semi-dry concrete is poured in
and hammered down with the ram. The
reinforcing-rods being left long enough
to build into the concrete beams which
are formed from one Frankipile to the
next, the result is a foundation of great
strength.
V * * *
“Will C.”: Business-places throughout
Australia should welcome the network
of tourist-buses which for many years
have brought people into country towns,
some for overnight stops, some during
the daytime. Much'money is spent on
curios and other things; when a
passenger says that such-and-such is a
good buy others will go into the same
shop. One of many such towns is
Gundagai (N.S.W.), where a long wooden
bridge spans the river at one end of .the
town, with a railway-bridge at the other
end. Quite a number of buses change
drivers here as they come from Sydney
and Melbourne after an eight-hour
run. A coach-captain says Gundagai has
probably gained more than any other
town because of road-traffic and the
making of a good road-surface from the
neighboring town of Cootamundra.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’m old enough to
remember the small bottles of soft-drink
that were corked with a built-in glass
marble —known to us kids as a “bottle-
oh” —and the method used, to seal the
large bottles: a stopper of black wood,
threaded and terminating with a sealing
rubber-ring. But, excavating on the site
of a demolished building, I uncovered a
bottle which had been sealed by means
of a smooth wooden rod long,
around which, near the end closer to
the bottle-mouth, was a red rubber ring,
Obviously the gadget worked on the prin-
ciple that the wood floated, pushing the
end of the rod into the mouth of the
bottle and bringing the rubber into con-
tact with the neck, the gas in the lolly-
water forcing it tightly against the glass.
To open, the end of the rod would be
pushed down with a finger. Now, how
old would that bottle have been?
* * * *
“M.”: I’ve seen the reverse of the
practice of putting pups on a gin’s breast.
In W.Q. a gin died in childbirth, the baby
surviving. There were no other gins in
milk; no dairy-cows; not even con-
densed-milk. But a bitch had whelped
that night, and the piccaninny survived
on its milk for six weeks, by which time
other gins, who had been dry, had a flow
to take-over. They stimulated the pro-
cess of secretion by laving their breasts
for hours in the hot sands of the bed
of the Georgina River.


"GALAH" - WHY, HOW?
TX/here and when did the abo. term
'' “galah,” as applied to an Australian
cockatoo, have its beginnings in white-
feller usage?
The earliest reference given in Morris’s
Austral English (1898) belongs to Vic-
toria in 1890, but the name must have
got moving well before that, although,
apparently, pioneering birdmen restricted
themselves to “rose-breasted cockatoo.”
At all events, “gillar” appears in a book
of 1884, The Never Never Land, product
of a visiting Englishman named A. W.
Stirling ; and, by the way, this book is
probably the first to have made use of
the term “Never Never.”
After explaining that his spelling,
“gillar,” follows the pronunciation of the
word as he heard it in Queensland,
Stirling goes on to record his apprecia-
tion of the beauty of the cockatoos when,
in flight, the soft-grey of their backs and
the rose-pink of the breasts alternate in
the sunlight. “No other bird,” he
declares, “presents so splendid an
appearance, the combination of colors
being in such perfect taste.”
That tribute is merited, of course, but
it loses some of its lustre when set against
later developments—galahs shot in large
numbers for helping themselves to in-
viting grain-crops, slaughtered also as
they fluttered from the traps of gun-
clubs, and, worst of all, packed in grimy
cages for bird-dealing.
Incidentally, where, when and why did
“galah” come to be applied to a simple
or swaggering type of soldier? Besides
being handsome, hearty and social (in
a free state), the avian galah is well-
equipped with intelligence, and, therefore,
a human “galah” should be quite a
worthy fellow.
WULWORRA.
* * * *
“D.J.” (Papua): On official business
in a Papuan village, I was approached
by an excited greybeard who was
demanding a dogdicence. My explanation
that under Territory laws dogs had to
be registered only in towns provoked
excited jabbering from Grandpa. I finally
got it that what he wanted was a licence
for his dog to bile people. It transpired
that, fed -up with odd villagers prowling
around his house at night and disturbing
his slumbers, he’d taught his dog to heel
anyone coming too near during darkness.
Now he needed immunity from legal
action on the part of those nipped. Some
advice about keeping his hound in hand,
a few lines scribbled on a leaf from my
field-notebook, and rejection of the
proffered £2 “fee” sent the old-’un away,
his dusky face wreathed in smiles.
* * * *
“Yanar”: She was always short of
stove-wood, her husband being allergic
to the axe. The day a new neighbor
asked to use her phone he had, to get
to the instrument, to step over a long
s Par, one end of which was burning in
the stove, while the other rested on a
chair across the room. His call com-
pleted, he recrossed the barrier, thanked
her and departed. In a few minutes he
w as back, with his own axe, with which
he promptly reduced all the long wood
around the place into handy stove-
lengths.
* * * *
“Pituri Peter”: Trees which laymen
have great trouble in differentiating are
genuine gidyea (Acacia cambegii) and
bastard-gidyea (Acacia georginaii ) —it is
the latter whose seed-pods cause deaths
among cattle, sheep and camels almost
every year over thousands of square-
miles in the Georgina River country of
far-west Queensland.
“MacMuirick”: It seems that the
stamina not only of man but of sheep
has improved with the centuries. In
17th-century Spain a tally of eight sheep
a day was the “gun’s” figure for ewes,
while five was considered good going
with rams. They used to employ 150
men to shear each 1000 sheep, the
woollies being kept in a special building
designed to hold 20,000. A chronicler
of the time reported the ewes as being
so delicate that if they were exposed to
the night air immediately after shearing
they “would certainly perish.”
• * * *
“Macko”: Flogging agricultural
machinery in a tough Gippsland district,
I looked like drawing a blank for the
week’s sales when one hungry cow-cocky
took compassion on me. “Try old Tom
Finnegan,” he said. “His joint’s at the
very end o’ the road just before the
turn-off. He’s a bachelor, an’ does a bit
o’ fattenin’. Badly needs a set o’ pasture-
harrers —he’s worn-out everyone else’s
he can borrer.” I soon realised that the
only thing Finnegan would buy would
be a quid-note for ten-bob, but he was
hospitable enough to offer me a cup of
tea. On the hob was a big enamelled
teapot. He produced two enamelled
mugs, which, like the teapot, were chipped
to give them much the same markings
as an Ayrshire cow ; then he opened a
cupboard-door. As a ferret shot out he
grabbed it, while with his free hand he
brought out of the same cupboard a
loaf of dodger and an open tin of jam.
Replacing the ferret, he reached for the
teapot-handle at the same instant as I
reached for my cady.
* * * *
T\7hen I rode up to the fence at the
** bottom of the Chinese garden they
seemed to be waiting for me. The No. 1
man led the deputation.
“What you call ’em?” he queried im-
patiently.
“What do I call what?” I countered.
“You come longa me,” he said. “I
see-oh you. All same dawk, all same cat.”
It sounded interesting, so I climbed the
fence. With his countrymen in single-
file behind us, the spokesman piloted me
along a narrow pathway towards the
house.
“Larsen’ ni’,” he explained, “my dawk
ketts ’im longa gar -din, ow-si . . . Kill
’um . . . Him dead. Bime-by him no
more dead. Him clear ow. My dawk
ketts ’um wellee quick. Kill ’um nexee
tahme —all same likee fust tahme. My
countleeman puttem chain longa het.
Puttem chain longa v’landa. What you
call ’em?”
We’d reached the veranda, to the post
of which an annoyed-looking fox was
chained. I explained what it was.
“What you call ’um? Foe?” he
chortled gleefully. “By Cli’, my dawk
well good kettsum foe.”
When I told him he could sell the pelt
the head-gardener was horrified.
“No feah!” he said. “No kill’um. I
tink foe wellee goo’ feller. More bettah
I keep ’im.”
Next day I pulled -up outside the
garden. “How’s the fox?” I asked.
The boss vegetable-raiser came to the
fence. He seemed dejected.
“Larsen’ ni’,” he said, sorrowfully,
“him all li’. Tee-day my countleeman go
give ’im deenah, but him all gone!”
He put his hands to the back of his
neck and brought them up over his hair.
“I tink pull ’em chain ’longa hett. My
dawk no see ’um. No ketts ’um. 1 no
like lose ’em foe. Him wellee goo’ feller.
All samd dawk, all same cat.”
SPINIFEX.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
‘EMDECELEX,” Sydney
PRiNG DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. D. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address : Prlng Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: lanwar, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
"GIVE ME LAND, LOTS OF LAND!"
HThe colored folder which has
been circulated as an
introduction to the plans of
Australian Landtrusts (N.S.W.)
Pty., Ltd., employs the auxiliary
verb “should” repeatedly. That
is partly because it is a new
type of venture in Australia,
with everything in front of it.
In this extract “should” is used
twice in one paragraph under
the heading of “The oppor-
tunity of BIG CAPITAL
GAINS”:
Not only should LAND-UNITS
provide a safe 8 p.c. income, but
history has proved your money
would have INCREASED with the
normal development of Australia
and the national wealth. The
capital gains you enjoy with LAND-
UNITS should be tax-free.
In so talking of capital-
appreciation, the promoters
also display an appreciation of
capitals (and italics) which
persists throughout the printed
sales-talk.
There is a booklet which can
be obtained to explain the
land-units at greater length,
but the colored folder now
being circulated lets you
know without further ado—
Briefly, however, the private
investor buys “Land-Units,” each
of which entitles him to a pro-
portionate share in the income and
capital gains made from the owner-
ship and/or sale of properties
bought by the Trust on behalf of
“Land-Unit” holders.
“Is my money safe?” a
hypothetical prospect asks in
the folder. “Yes!” he is
assured in the same line of
type. The assurance' is elabor-
ated as follows:
Commercial and economic history
shows that money carefully invested
in Land and Buildings is without
doubt as safe as the Commonwealth
of Australia, whereas shares fall
and rise in value and depend on
fashions in buying and temporary
tariff protection, or the ability of
individual managers. Property is a
solid tangible asset which should
increase in value and earning-
power as Australia progresses in
wealth and population.
Australian Land and Build-
ings Trust No. 1 is sponsored
by L. J. Hooker Investment
Corporation, Ltd., and in a
letter to its own shareholders
this enterprise explains:
The LAND AND BUILDINGS
TRUSTS are very similar to the
highly successful share trusts which
have been operating in Australia
for over 23 years and in which over
£35,000,000 is invested EXCEPT
that in AUSTRALIAN LAND
AND BUILDINGS TRUSTS the
funds are invested in real-estate
instead of in shares.
Shares are an excellent invest-
ment, but they are subject to market
fluctuations and accordingly do not
compare with real-estate either for
security, growth or yield as is so
“I had to dive, too—I got seasick."
clearly exemplified by the statistics
shown in the enclosed literature.
L. J. Hooker, Ltd., the estate-
agency company, has been
appointed advisors and property-
managers of the Trusts’ properties.
The wide coverage of their chain
of metropolitan offices and success-
ful record as real-estate specialists
will ensure that first-class proper-
ties only will be made available to
the Trust and that management will
be in the hands of an organisation
thoroughly experienced in this field.
AUSTRALIAN LAND AND
BUILDING TRUSTS will for the
first time give investors both large
and small an opportunity to par-
ticipate in the most secure and
lucrative investment in Australia —
LAND AND BUILDINGS.
An investment of £25 will enable
the investor to acquire an interest
in these Trusts and in so doing
obtain a holding in HOUSING,
FLATS, HOME UNITS, FAC-
TORIES, COMMERCIAL PRO-
PERTIES AND DEVELOPED
LAND.
This spread of investment will
provide the maximum of security
and an opportunity of an estimated
return of more than 8% per
annum to the investor together
with a probable capital gain in
keeping with the general increase
in property values.
The rapid increase in land and
building values since the end of
the war is so well recognised that
it needs no emphasis, and there is
no reason to believe that this trend
will not continue, thus resulting in
a corresponding appreciation in the
value of the Trusts’ properties which
will in turn be reflected in the value
of the investors’ holdings.
Our object in writing to you is
to advise our shareholders that they
will receive priority of applica-
tion
There is a suggestion that
interested potential customers
should “make sure of getting
in on the ground floor.”
Investment in land is extolled
in the folder to the dis-
advantage of investment in
shares. But whilst much
money has been made out of
land and property over the
past few years, landlords as
a class are an unhappy race,
and not all subdivisions of un-
improved land have maintained
their buoyancy—not even on
the Gold Coast of Queensland.
On the other hand, it should
be conceded at once, building-
allotments in choice sub-
divisions, and many city pro-
perties, have indeed proved to
be good “buys” even at second-
and third-hand. But the fact
remains that dealing in real-
estate has its problems, in-
cluding rates and taxes (not
mentioned in the folder), as
well as dealing in securities on
the Stock Exchange, though it
is true that share prices have
reached such a high level now
that many unit-trusts dealing
in shares are finding it difficult
to offer prospective buyers an
attractive return.
T Tnder the heading of
“Land Subdivision, Land
Development and Resale,” the
folder says: “You are fully
aware of the solid profits that
have been made in this avenue
of investment. Land-Unit
holders will share in such
profits.” But at just what point
of the subdivision they will
participate is not made clear,
like many other details.
The folder is not a prospectus
as the term is understood
under the - provisions of the
Companies Act, and the co. is
not issuing shares, but “land-
units,” representing a form of
contract covered by a trust-
deed. The almost enraptured
sales-talk in the folder (“If
you own your own home, you
will know what a rich invest-
ment land, and bricks and
mortar, have always been”),
combined with its sketchiness
as to details of the trust, would
hardly be suitable in a com-
pany’s prospectus, however
bright prospects may in fact be.
The jssue of the folder may
represent the first shot in a
campaign to popularise a new
type of unit-trust, and in the
absence of an actual per-
formance to quote it may have
been thought necessary to
talk about “vast increases in
property-values” without men-
tioning the period over which
those increases took place.
VjyHiLE it may be quite
possible to show the unit-
holder “8 p.c. per annum, plus
capital gains,” the proposition
will deserve more serious con-
sideration once generalities are
unnecessary and there are
results to study.
For that reason the promoters
should be —and probably are
—on their toes to make this
.first trust a success that can
be talked about factually when
later trusts are promoted.
There is a trust-deed which
binds the buyer of units and
the Landtrust co., and its pro-
visions govern the contract
The life of Trust No. 1 is for
15 years, and income-distribu-
tions are intended to be made


WANTED
CATTLE STATIONS
NORTHERN TERRITORY
or
NORTH WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
FOR
IMMEDIATE INSPECTION
BY RELIABLE CLIENT
Country Sales Department,
c. J. HOOKER LIMITED,
Real Estate Agents, Auctioneers,
'aluers, Stock and Station Agents,
Hotel Brokers
98 Pitt Street, Sydney, BW 8401.
Australia's Leader in Real Estate.
. ill 1
Wn 4:;^
iix/'X•••: •.':•?••
:>x •• • •
sMSligi
SB8&
*X>X
SKS&ftfcSa?
You should talk to
If your money’s lying idle, I’d suggest you
put it on interest-bearing deposit with the
“Wales”. It couldn’t be safer and the
interest is quite good when you consider
the security you get. You can deposit
amounts from £5 upwards, for three
months, six months, a year, or two years
whichever is most convenient for you.
There’s no better short-term investment.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
Over 1,000 branches and agencies throughout
Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New
Guinea, and three branches in London
YOU CAN BANK ON THE “WALES**
A5909C
half-yearly. An initial charge
not exceeding 8| p.c. of the
price at which units are sold is
included in the selling-price,
and there is a quarterly charge
payable from income not
exceeding a quarter of one per
cent, of the value of the fund
at the end of each quarter.
This presumably means
approximately 1 p.c. p.a. The
8 p.c. yield indicated in the
booklet, plus capital appreci-
ation, is after these charges
have been allowed for.
The plan is some distance
removed from the fixed unit-
trust dealing in shares, where
the nature of the portfolio of
investments used to be men-
tioned at the outset. In the
case of real-estate it seems
almost impossible to nominate
in advance what particular
investments will be included in
the holding. The shareholding
unit-trusts of the present time
have had to widen their scope
to include as many as 200 or
more different securities, and
their holdings aren’t fixed. In
the case of real-estate, the lati-
tude will need to be wider still.
In other words, “Don’t fence
me in! ”
The task of substantiating
the capital-lettered and itali-
cised claims in the folder is
now up to the promoters of
the land-unit scheme. The job
will be more complex than
merely buying and selling
shares, and though prospects
may be wide and handsome it
will be future results that will
be waited on much more so
than in the case of unit-trusts
dealing in shares with an
already-established dividend-
record.
Sawtoothing at High Level
A lthough sharemarket in-
dexes have tended to rise
over the past week, an analysis
of individual stocks shows that
there has been widespread but
moderate reaction throughout
the share-list. There is a
shallow sawtooth movement,
a t a high level, in most stocks,
though some continue to mount
to record levels. Among these
is Allied Mills, the N.S.W.
flourmilling - cum - margarine
enterprise that has recently
been exhibiting its real form
for the first time and has
announced two new share-
issues this year. It was typical
of the upward-moving stocks
last week —the younger type
of enterprise that has lately
made its mark on ’Change.
The topliners remain near
their recent record level, but
usually slightly below. Not-
withstanding the two interest-
ing announcements about
C.S.R.’s new ventures, one
into another building-material
and the other into plastics, the
market responded only moder-
ately, there having been a steep
rise in C.S.R. shares already
this year.
Money is flowing into Aus-
tralia at a rate unprecedented
since the borrowing boom of
the Bruce-Pages in the 1920’5,
but this time it is private invest-
ors’ money, with the definite
purpose of promoting Aus-
tralian industry and not that
of promoting imports. On the
physical side of industry, too,
great developments are taking
place in respect of new manu-
factures and new chemical and
electronic processes.
Migration to Australia is at
a high rate, but of itself it is
unlikely to affect industry
spectacularly enough to justify
present sharemarket prices.
What the market is apparently
looking for is a lift in the Aus-
tralian - manufactured com-
ponent of an increased standard
of living,' with possibilities of
an export market for more of
our production, and a time
when the prolonged plough-
back of profits by our indust-
ries will eventually pay-off in
the shape of increased div-
idends.
I.C.H. Group, Ltd.
Thirst takeover by Industrial
A and Commercial Holding
Group, Ltd. (Sydney), will be
all the issued ord. shares of
Tolley, Scott and Tolley, Ltd.,
Adelaide, who supply about
20 p.c. of the brandy sold in
Australia.
But the group aims to
acquire other businesses, and
already has in mind that of
Norman Hartnell (Aust.),’ Ltd.,
the fashion-production people,
involving only a small capital
outlay.
For Tolley, Scott and Tolley
shares it has been agreed to
pay £500,200 by the issue of
£317,160 in 7 p.c. unsecured
convertible notes (convertible
after five years into 7 p.c.
redeemable cum. prefs.) and
£183,040 in cash.
The public has now over-
subscribed an issue of 999,972
ords. of ss. each, making, with
signatory shares, a total issue
of a million (£250,000), which
is the proposed initial paid
capital. Intangible assets
amount to £60,988, leaving net
tangible backing, on book-
values, at 3s. 9d. a share. But
plant, machinery and casks are
reckoned to be undervalued to
the extent of £130,000, and,
taking this into account, back-
ing is put at 6s. 4d. a share.
In the September, 1954,
Budget a cut was made in
excise on Australian brandy
in order to stimulate consump-
tion, and over the past three
years there has been an average
lift of 66 p.c. in brandy sales
in the Commonwealth. In
order to meet its share of the
increased demand, T.S.T.
bought-in brandy on the open
market. Although this was un-
profitable, it maintained the


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
V/
r-*
A
A
s=»
Li
C
«D O. for
long Term
Short Term
I.A.C. guarantees fixed quarterly
income, free of exchange.
For full details see Prospectus;
your copy available from all
Members of Stock Exchanges,
the 703 branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited & I.A.C. Branches.
ASSETS EXCEED £60,000,093
PAID UP CAPITAL £10,000,003
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE
ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART
CANBERRA
and at PROVINCIAL BRANCHES
(Established 29 Years )
Underwriting Brokers:
lan Potter & Co.
Melbourne, Canberra
and Sydney
DII6N
co.’s connections, and the move
is now paying-off. The co. is
also now in a position to distil
four times its current produc-
tion, with storage-capacity for
double current output. Plant is
completely modern, and
bottling facilities are well in
excess of present requirements.
Discussions are now taking
place with overseas interests
with a view to increasing pro-
duction.
For the year to June 30,
1957, profit after tax, and
allowing for interest on the
unsecured notes (£22,201 p.a.),
was equal to 11 p.c. on the
proposed ord. capital. Next
year it was 13.9 p.c., and, for
the eight months to February
28 last, was at the rate of 16.2
p.c. p.a. A minimum div.-rate
of 8 p.c. on the ord. capital is
anticipated,
j n the modern fashion, the
co have a high gearing of
note-money to ord. capital,
bu( at February 2 8 outside
, iabi|jties were comparat i V ely
K , J
smal '! . at £70 > 055 > includi g
Provision for current income-
tax - There is a provision for
future income-tax of £100,021
which becomes payable only as
stocks are converted into
profits—or, in the words of the
prospectus, “the liability for
payment would be progressive
and commensurate with the
extent of any reduction in
stocks.” This provision is
already deducted from assets
in arriving at net tangible back-
ing.
The Wool-cheque
A fter a rather dramatic year
—it opened ominously and
closed on a cheerier note —the
wool-cheque for 1958-59 was
£295.6 million, compared with
£337.7 million for 1957-58.
Sales totalled 4,790,282 bales,
compared with 4,374,694.
Average price for the year
was 48.7 d. a pound, against
62.6 d. Average price for June,
1959, was 47.2 d. a pound
greasy, against 46.6 d. greasy
in June, 1958. Carryover at
June 30 was small at 111,153
bales.
Mt. Morgan Production Up
VI7TTH the final month’s pro-
** duction figures in for the
year just ended, Mt. Morgan
(Q.) has shown a substantial
lift in its gold and copper out-
put. Production of gold rose
sharply by 14,1720 z. to 65,998
oz., and copper production im-
proved by 264 tons to 7843
tons. Tonnage milled showed
a decrease from 875,350 tons to
782,070 tons, which is
accounted for in the higher
grades of ore mined.
Copper prices over the last
year have been higher than the
previous period and the price
of gold has remained fixed.
At present the managing-
director and the co.’s technical
superintendent and research-
officer are overseas seeking
capital for the six-million-
pound fertiliser project, which
is planned to make use of the
company’s abundant supply of
pyrites.
The increased revenue,
which should be forthcoming
with the increased output, may
put directors in a more
generous mood when deciding
the final dividend at the end
of July.
B.M.R. Fieldwork
[From Dr. H. G. Raggatt, Secre-
tary, Department of National De-
velopment, Canberra.]
TN B. 1/7/’59 Mr. L. Owen,
referring to my letter pub-
lished in B. 24/6/’59, states that
I mistakenly attributed to
him “a wish that the Bureau
of Mineral Resources should
have tested the Woolnough
Hills structure.” He quotes
from an earlier letter of his
published on June 10 in support
of this contention. However,
the sentence he quotes is only
part of his complete statement.
I think in fairness to me and
Bulletin readers the remainder
of Mr. Owen’s earlier comment
should be published. It
reads: —
Perhaps after the experience, in
1940, of drilling through over 2000 ft.
of igneous rock at Miauri (Papua)
—in what looked like a domaf
structure in the air photographs—
the present organisation may be
wary of repeating the performance
of its predecessors.
As pointed out in my letter of
June 24, this statement by Mr.
Owen is factually incorrect, but
the obvious inference from it
surely is that the Bureau did
not drill the Woolnough Hills
structure because of some past
experience.
There is a further point of
criticism of the Bureau in
Mr. Owen’s letter of July h
namely the length of time that
elapses between completion of
fieldwork by the Bureau and
the publication of results. This


is fair criticism, and every
effort is being made to speed-
up publication of results.
Masonite “Negotiations”
Following the announcement
by Associated Pulp and
Paper (B. 15/7/’59) of “pend-
ing negotiations,” Masonite
Holdings, Ltd., has spoken of
“certain approaches” by “other
organisations interested in the
hardboard industry.” The pro-
posals are being examined,
Masonite’s directors say.
Colonial Sugar (which has
just announced its intention of
buying the Bradford family’s
interest in the Bradford Insu-
lation group of eight com-
panies for 10,000 fully-paid
£2O C.S.R. shares, and will
be associated with B. F.
Goodrich Chemical Co. in the
Australian manufacture of
geon polyvine chloride plastic
materials) is one maker of
hardboard in Australia;
the other (apart from
Masonite itself) is Associated
Pulp and Paper. A.P. and P.
has lately extended its hard-
board activities to Queensland,
and has become a particularly
tough competitor of Masonite.
The C.S.R. was originally asso-
ciated with Masonite on the
distribution side, but severed its
connection when it established
its own building-materials
division. Australian Consoli-
dated Industries was a founda-
tion-shareholder in Masonite.
Victorian H.-p.
■\fiCTORiA brought in the new
* hire - purchase regulations
on July 1 that abolish forcible
repossession, give hirers the
right to nominate their own
insurance company, and redress
if goods are defective, stipulate
that all charges involved must
be shown and easily under-
stood, and provide thaf a hirer
must have a written notice of
what he is agreeing to. The
outlook for both the s.-p. and
h.-p. backlane boys is now
bleak.
Placer Development, Ltd.
Cale of its ordinary shares in
Coronet Oil (Texas) by
Placer Development for
12.2-million Canadian dollars
has brought the comment from
its board that “a large amount
of these funds might well be
required for development of
the several mining ventures in
which Placer is presently
interested.”
The most interesting of these
are a 43.5 p.c. interest in a
22-million-ton copper-orebody
at Merritt (8.C.) and a 22.2 p.c.
interest in a high-grade zinc
prospect at Mattagami Lake
(Quebec), though with base
metals at their present level,
and with world production of
zinc in excess of supply and
an embarrassment to the
U.S.A., they seem to have long-
term, rather than immediate,
prospects.
At last balance-day Placer
had net liquids and semi-
liquids of over $ll million. Its
issued capital is 2,580,000
shares of no-par-value.
N.S.W. Monopolies Act
Tt is reasonable to suppose
that, prior to the Wool
Trade Inquiry in Sydney,
a good many laymen did
not suspect that N.S.W. had a
Monopolies Act. Interest in
the Act itself has been revived
by legal argument during the
addresses, and particularly by
the suggestion made by C. L. D.
Meares, Q.C., in his opening
address, that existing legislation
in regard to wool-selling is
“inadequate or inappropriate.”
Meares said that the Crown
would ask the commissioner
(Mr. Justice Cook) to recom-
mend “remedial legislative
action” to prevent boycotting
of recognised wool-selling
centres and to prohibit lot-
transfers and “pie”-arrange-
ments between buyers.
It is in no way a comment
on the inquiry itself to say that
these Crown submissions on
proposed legislation have a
major news interest. Whether
or not the commissioner sees
fit to incorporate them in his
eventual report to the Attorney-
General, they were the first
concrete suggestions which
emerged from the mass of
evidence. Oddly enough, not
one Sydney daily newspaper
reported them at the time.
However, Crown counsel
submitted that buyers had con-
travened, and were still contra-
vening, certain sub-sections of
the existing Act, by both the
boycott of Goulburn and buy-
ing arrangements or combina-
tions. To properly follow this
argument it is necessary to
look at the Act —in any case,
an interesting document. A
copy can be bought from the
Government Printer for 6d.
In Part II of the Act (1923-
1939 ; further amended 1940)
the words “to the detriment of
the public” appear several
times; there are also several
references to combinations of
producers.
Part 111, section 8, throws
light on the background of the
recent inquiry:
(1) The Industrial Commission
may, upon complaint made as pre-
scribed by regulation under this
Act, and shall, upon reference by
the Attorney-General, make an
inquiry into any of the following
matters, that is to say, whether
there is or has been:
(a) any monopoly of, or attempt
or combination to monopolise, the
trade in any commodity or service,
with intent to control the supply
or price of the commodity;
( b ) any combination with intent
to restrain trade in rpiy commodity
or service;
(c) any combination for limiting
or regulating the output or supply,
or for raising, maintaining or
regulating the price, of any
commodity or service;
(d) any combination for limiting
or excluding competition in the
trade in any commodity or service,
or any abuse for that purpose of
a power to control such trade.
Section 8 (2) states that, “In
making any such inquiry the
commission shall consider
whether, reasonable regard
being had to the interests of
producers, distributors and
consumers, any such monopoly
or combination is or is not
detrimental to the public.”
The recent inquiry was
held upon reference by the
Attorney - General, following
representations from both sides
of the N.S.W. Parliament. In
his submissions, Mr. Meares
has argued that the boycott of
Goulburn and pie-buying con-
travene sub-section 8 (1) ( b ),
j n s 0 f ar as there are combina-
tions w j t h intent to restrain
trade in wool; that the boycott
also contravenes sub-section 8
(1) (c) by limiting output or
supply of wool; and that pie-
buying, in so far as it repre-
sents combinations for limiting
or excluding competition in the
trade of wool, “falls squarely
under sub-section 8 (1) ( d ).”
Under “Penalties and Pro-
cedure” one learns that pro-
ceedings may be instituted for
contraventions of the Act by
-indictment or civil action by
~ * 1
Attorney-General or some
person authorised by him,” and
that any person “injured in his
f. erSol \ or P/°Perty” by any-
thing done by another person
in contravention of the Act
“ may> j n the Supreme Court
befor e a judge without a jury,
sue for and recover treble
damages for the injury.”
No such action, however,
„ , „ , . ’ ~, . ’
shall be instituted without the
written consent of the
Attorney-General.”
Th • ■ f w hirh for
, ine commission (Wflicn, ior
the purposes of any inquiry
under the Act, has the powers
of a chairman of a royal com-
mission) “shall report to the
Attorney-General the result of
any such inquiry, together with
such recommendations, if any,
as the board may deem
proper” [9 (1)].


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Meet Joyce Grenfell”
The art of English comedi-
enne Joyce Grenfell is
thoroughly personal and
feminine. Out of the miscel-
lany of monologues and songs
she is currently doing at Syd-
ney’s Phillip Street Theatre
there emerges a small but
memorable world of women,
most of them from the English
middle-class and situated, like
the E. M. Forster character,
at a slight angle to the uni-
verse.
An insanely bright-eyed
woman at the front-door tells
you how she learnt about
“earth - ray thought - forces”
which come up through the
soles of your feet and do your
thinking for you ; the pro-
prietress of a “madly gay”
antique-shop tries to sell a
bewildered customer on the
uses of sequined antlers and
hip-baths; a nursery school-
mistress tries to cope with the
,pverfree activities of her
charges during a free-activity
period; a restlessly genteel
hostess gives an unexpected
guest the afternoon-tea treat-
ment ; a writer of children’s
books tells her readers how
her stories write themselves in
her “hidey-hole”; a foolish
virgin lionises a literary wolf ;
and so on.
In reality most of these
people would be pretty hard to.
take; but Miss Grenfell has
observed them with a wonder-
fully tolerant eye. Nowhere
in her work is there a trace
of venorn or cruelty. On the
contrary, even her most absurd
characters are created with
something like tenderness.
In her cartoons of working-
girls at the football and fun-
park ; in her song about the
dowdy housewife dreaming of
the grand life on a bus ; and
in her wistful little snapshot of
a mother bravely farewelling
her emigrating children, this
tenderness pervades every line.
And once or twice —as in her
closing song about her love of
people—it even sank uncom-
fortably into sentimentality.
It is a small world, de-
veloped in a very minor key,
and on the surface it might
seem to be strictly limited in
appeal. But when you count
through its details in an effort
to discover why you weren’t
bored for a minute of her
almost continuous two-hour
presence on stage you are
astonished at what has been
achieved within its limits.
Her art grows out of de-
tails —slight changes of tone
and facial expression, small
gestures, accents—all accurately
observed from life, slightly but
deftly exaggerated and com-
bined, with a shrewd and subtle
feeling for audience-response,
“Thought so —just balancing !”
into little collector’s-pieces of
caricature.
And what unpretentious
virtuosity she has! Her sing-
ing, for example, moves easily
from the folkishness of “Songs
My Mother Taught Me”
through the assured revue-
style of “Ballad” and “Oh, Mr.
Du Maurier” (which, by the
way, needed too much prefac-
ing and lacked immediacy) to
the striking range of “Joyful
Noise,” in which a back-row
soprano describes, in a sort of
Handelian recitative with
choruses, her life in the choral
society. This was done in a
burlesque soprano, with a
couple of dips into gobbling
contralto and an occasional
Albert Hall echo.
And underlying it all there
is her admirable verbal sense.
She wrote every item herself,
and many of them could, one
feels, stand on their own as
pieces of expert prose- or
verse-writing.
William Blezard’s accom-
paniments were expertly unob-
trusive ; and while Miss G.
was changing dresses he
improvised wittily on “Three
Blind Mice” and “Waltzing
Matilda”; and played “Don’t
Sit Under the Apple Tree” in
the styles of Mozart, Beeth-
oven and Chopin, and again
in the tones of a mandolin, a
barrel - organ and another
instrument this writer couldn’t
identify.
* , *:♦
The Two Faces of O’Neill
Patch, the tiny Perth theatre
with the big stage and legendary
curtain that supplies its name,
still mounts an excellent show
within its amateur (but far
from untutored) scope.
The last production, Eugene
O’Neill’s “Ah Wilderness,” was
good enough to stand a limited
comparison with the Sydney
Elizabethan Theatre’s “Long
Day’s Journey into Night.”
In Robift Lovejoy’s justly
acclaimed production of the
autobiographical tragedy, one
of the brilliant touches
was the dressing and lighting
of the nostalgic scene played
between husband and wife
the dismal (but how delight-
fully authentic!) period-set
glowed with muted jewel
colors, as though symbolic of
a pitiful might-have-been.
“Ah Wilderness,” O’Neill’s
one comedy, is nostalgic, too
—even sentimental — but so
true to the happier realities of
family life as to suggest that
all was not gloom in his child
hood; or else, sadly, that this
play projects his own youthful
dream before hope was lost for
ever.
Producers Mary Senior and
Arthur Marshall used a period
interior no less delightful than
the Sydney set, softly bright
with the comforting warmth of
home, its heart a red velvet
table-cover, its spirit tall white
plumes of pampas-grass: a
gem of a setting, really; as
good as the dressing ; amusing
to the point of laughter, yet
elegant and unexaggerated.
As Nat Miller, newspaper-
owner and head of the house,
Tom Troode played with
humor and sincerity a part
that could easily become
farcical. As Mrs. Miller, Elsie
Wares looked always the
charming housewife of the
period — perhaps a slight
affectation was in period, too.
The poetically adolescent
Richard, the Miller son whose
revolt creates the plot, was not
quite so convincingly displayed:
Ashley Arbuckle’s voice tended
, to sound mechanical, possibly
through desire to underline
Richard’s immature responses
to life and love.
H. D.-B.
♦♦♦
“Troilus and Cressida”
In, for all the St. Paul’s
College Mummers knew, the
Australian premiere of this
Shakspearian minor piece, at
Sydney University, Michael
Chesterman as Troilus scowled
woundily when Cressida dis-
dained him, brightened when
she allowed his suit, cursed and
brooded when she was torn
from him to join her father
among the Greeks, swore and
wept when she betrayed him
with Diomedes, and then,
ennobled by suffering,
awakened to his soldierly
responsibilities on the death of
his brother Hector —but it was
all superimposed, no doubt by
the producer, Dr. Felix Arnott;
and this could be said of all
those wooden soldiers, both
Trojans and Greeks, except
Ulysses, who was played with
real insight and a fine sense of
the flow of the verse, by Lloyd
Waddy.
One looked to this practically
unknown play to test a theory.


You can easily
take sparkling
indoor flash
snaps . . .
WITH A
BROWNIE
FLASH
CAMERA
OUTFIT
*N>5
br°
EH
BCOB
Here’s the world’s favourite
“snapshooter” with its own
flasholder, flashbulbs, bat-
teries and Kodak Film in
one big-value outfit. With
this in the home the whole
family will enjoy picture-
making indoors and out,
anywhere, anytime. Ideal
for a gift . . .
£5.10.0
IT’S MADE BY
Kodak
SO YOU KNOW IT’S GOOD.
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
(successfully) that Shakspeare
is little more than action if
you haven’t read and remem-
bered great passages; but
suddenly out of the welter of
unfamiliarity came: “Time
hath, my lord, a wallet on his 1
back,” introducing a superb
speech, finely spoken by
Ulysses, and remarking, inter
al., that “One touch of nature
makes the whole world kin.”
Uncle Will certainly hid his
gold in unlikely places.
Rather cavalierly expressing
in the printed programme their
“gratitude to the Women’s
College for supplying actresses”
(art and women being more
accustomed to being entreated
than supplied), the Mummers
were lucky in the supply of
so exquisitely agitated an
Adromache as Anne Wool-
nough, so startling and effec-
tive a Cassandra as Merri
Graham, and with such a range
of high notes ; and so charm-
ingly perplexed a Cressida as
Jeanette Wilkie, doubtful and
hesitant about accepting
Troilus, fervent and whole-
hearted with D i o m e d e s
(Graham Mylne); the differ-
ence between the two love-
scenes was well managed.
But it all seemed too sketchy,
too gay a tragedy, to be taken
seriously; and when Paris
(Tony Albert), making love to
Helen (Elizabeth Stanton),
mentioned that “hot blood
begets hot thoughts, and hot
thoughts beget hot deeds, and
hot deeds is love,” the
enthusiasm was less tragic or
Trojan than Tivolian.
*l* ❖
Anouilh at Sydney Uni.
At the Wallace Theatre last
week the Sydney University
Festival of Drama and Music
reached what may well prove
to have been its peak in a
sensitive and resourceful pro-
duction, by Pamela Trethowan
and the Sydney University
Dramatic Society, of Anouilh’s
“The Waltz of the Toreadors.”
On one level the play is a
comedy about .the double
destruction of a womanising
French general’s notions of
himself in relation to others —
once by his neurotic wife, and
again by the woman he has
idealised for 17 years. On a
deeper level it is a bitter image
of human loneliness and
spiritual emptiness. (“It is
dangerous to understand an-
other person,” says one
character. “You may die of
it.”)
A lesser playwright would
have tried to make this into
a tragedy, or at best a melo-
drama. Anouilh, in the great
French comic tradition, has
concealed its toughness under a
deceptively theatrical sur-
face ; so that the play itself is
like some strangely gay waltz
in which illusion and reality,
idealism and cynicism, youth
and age, comedy and pathos
weave through each other in
wonderfully suggestive, patterns.
It will go on echoing in the
mind for a long time.
Graham MacPherson, as the
General, practically carried the
evening. In his three big
scenes the discussion of
humhn fulfilment with his
doctor-friend; the lecture on
honor to his callow secretary ;
and the monumental row with
his wife he displayed an
intelligence and technique
strong enough to make his few
slips of diction and timing
seem insignificant.
It would be easy to imagine
a more profound General’s
Wife than Marilyn Lee Morey,
but almost impossible to
imagine one more vehemently
alive.
Philip Hedley, Rosaleen
Smyth and Douglas Agnew
gave firm and alert support;
and the costumes (Martyn
Corbett) and decor (Grant
Roberts and Martyn Corbett)
admirably evoked the pre-1914
period.
hJi
Faure’s “Requiem”
The account of this work
given last Friday night by
Sydney’s St. Andre w’s
Cathedral Choir and the
Charles Gray String Orchestra,
under the conductorship of
Mervyn Byers, recognised that
it is an exalted and austere
expression of grief, and that
it calls for none of the thunder-
ing choral paeans of fervent
faith and praise which have
their place in Other liturgical
works.
The essential fabric of all
Faure’s music is sensitiveness
and poetic beauty, and it is
as much in evidence here as
the spirit of humble devotion.
It was this poetic content that
Byers and his forces went a
long way towards capturing,
especially in the episodes of
tranquil meditation. The
pianissimo singing was particu-
larly captivating; at its best
in the concluding “In para-
disum,” with the small
orchestra concluding a good
piece of collaboration with fine
musicianship where the linked
chords descend in double-bars.
The only defect in the choral
phrases was a lack of intensity.
Also given were a routine
performance of Bach’s Cantata,
“God’s Time is the Best,” in
the final section of which glori-
fication of praise could have
been more fervent; a neatly
integrated reading of Handel’s
Concerto Grosso No. 8 ; and
Vaughan Williams’s “Valiant
for Truth.”
Artbursts
Paintings Go West
Macquarie Galleries (Sydney)
made an interesting selection
of “t’othersiders” for a show
at Perth’s Skinner Galleries.
Coburn, Dundas, Herman,
Lloyd Rees, Hinder, Missing-
ham and 27 others contributed
52 works, pleasingly various in
subject and approach ; ranging
from Orban’s sombre green and
white “Javorina” to Adrian
Feint’s tiny polished “Study
for the Chinese Screen” ; from
Gleason’s precise, beautiful,
alarming “Chorus Girl Observ-
ing the Mechanism of Revela-
tion” to Donald Friend’s
lovely drawing of “Flute
Players” ; from Jessup’s decora-
tive “Three Thistledowns” —
rich and exquisite in color and
design as Chinese embroidery
—to John Olsen’s subtly
colored abstracts, merely
numbered, but far more agree-
able and gently provoking than
many an abstract with a title as
complicated as Gertrude Stein’s
prose.
Landscape predominated,
widely divergent in style and
mood. Elaine Haxton, between
two bollards, showed “Circular
Quay” on a gusty day, full of
blue water, vigor and joy.
Kenneth Hood painted his
“Pink House, St. Ives” in a
sort of noontime pattern of
heat and somnolence, intensely
satisfying.
Nolan’s two appeared to be
unimportant studies for larger
canvases, not nearly as interest-
ing as his two “pieces of
paper,” of which “Fragments”
(of figure, rock, totemic
objects), in bold, reddish-
brown watercolor brushing on
white, created a symbolic Aus-
tralian atmosphere.
Arthur Murch’s sunny lyric,
“The Assignation,” a modern
Leda with her swan, was more
golden and pink than other
recently seen nudes from his
brush, and the warmer and
better for that.
Generally, an invigorating
show and useful for Westralian
eyes.
F. D.
»!♦
Report on Europe
An exceptionally attractive
report on his travels in Europe
is submitted by David Strachan
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries.
One or two of the larger pieces
look a bit thin and shiny, but
the painting generally is as
capable as it is sensitive.
The peculiar charm comes
from the odd arrangements of
cottages, boats, churches and
lighthouses, faintly desolate in
the dusk, and from the quiet,
crepuscular colors. His fish
have a look of the green sea
about them ; and anybody who


Closing Saturday!
The
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
s'/4%
LOAN
For 7, 10 or 25 years
• GOVERNMENT - GUARANTEED. Principal and
interest are unconditionally guaranteed by the N.S.W.
Government.
0 TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. The Loan is an Authorised
Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania.
• INSTALMENTS ACCEPTED. If you do not wish to
invest the full amount this week, a 10% deposit can be
made, and the balance paid by 30th September, 1959.
• INVESTMENT IS EASY. Apply at any branch of the—
-0 Commonwealth Trading Bank;
0 Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
0 Bank of New South Wales;
0 Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
UNDERWRITTEN BY lAN POTTER & CO.
can bring, fresh life to the
standard plate of dead fish is
worth watching.
Films
“Quiet Flows the Don”
This, at the Australia, Mel-
bourne, is the massive first part
of a trilogy based on
Sholokhov’s novel. It has
some of the breadth, if not the
depth, of Tolstoy’s The
Cossacks. Like Tolstoy’s
novel, it paints a picture
filmed, unfortunately, in tech-
nicolor of a Cossack com-
munity in war-time (World
War I) seen through the eyes
of a Cossack peasant soldier.
While he is away fighting for
the empire of the Little Father
his landlord’s son is seducing
his wife. Revenge is a virtue
with the Cossack, and he deals
with the situation in the appro-
priate Cossack fashion. He
flogs his master’s son to the
point of death, leaves him
groaning by the roadside, and
returns home and flogs his wife.
Then, full of outraged virtue,
he goes off to another woman.
Influenced by Communism
while in the Army, he has come
home full of hope in the new
revelation ; but Marx didn’t
say anything relevant to the
sexual problem, and when the
courageous young Cossack
comes-up against a concrete
case in his own life he reacts
like any suburban husband.
There is no hint of propa-
ganda in the film. It is a per-
fectly straightforward domestic
drama told with sympathy, if
not understanding.
♦** »!♦
“Cinerama Holiday”
This second venture in giant-
screen Cinerama represents a
considerable technical advance.
Synchronisation of the three
projectors has improved, and
the dividing-lines between the
three sections of the screen
don't play such strange tricks
as they did in the earlier show.
The director has also tenta-
tively explored the medium's
use for conventional films by
including a slight story to bind
together the usual bits and
pieces of tourism.
He uses two couples on a
Cinerama-sponsored holiday—
an American couple visiting
Switzerland and Paris, and a
Swiss couple doing the U.S.
But although the story fits in
neatly enough, the more spec-
tacular sequences remain the
chief lure.
The medium is at its best in
treating great stretches of
scenery—in a train-trip across
the States, with the country-
side dressed in beautiful
autumnal colors; and in the
splendor of the Swiss Alps.
There is beauty, too, in a
tour of Paris, and in a too-brief
excerpt from Rameau’s ballet,
“Les Indes Galantes,” at the
Paris Opera. You look in on
High Mass at Notre Dame and
a fervid jam-session at the
New Orleans jazz-centre;
take-in Napoleon’s Tomb and
the Invalides ; and, for those
with strong stomachs, come
down in a jet at terrific speed
to land on the deck of an
aircraft-carrier, and ride in a
bobsled at well over 100 m.p.h.
A variety of sights and sub-
jects, wide enough to satisfy
most tastes, has been caught
with fine fidelity and in
notably good color.
At Sydney Plaza.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Too Much, Too Soon”
Based on the autobiography
of John Barrymore’s daughter
Diana, this rather grim essay
on the difficulties of living up
to a magical name in show-
business when you haven’t the
necessary talent has some
moments of real poignancy to
offset the shallow senti-
mentality which often mars it.
The frustrated girl’s plunge
into degradation after the
death of her father who,
except in his last year or so,
was far too busy with his art
and his women to bother about
her—is described with an
often brutal directness.
Dorothy Malone gives a
fair degree of credibility
to the psychological disturb-
ances that send the highly-
strung girl running away from
herself. Errol Flynn does sur-
prisingly well as Barrymore,
snr., both in his debonair days
and when his life had come to
the black-ashes stage.
At Sydney Century.
♦t* »>
“Passionate Summer”
Some beautiful Jamaican
scenery is the only compensa-
tion for this unconvincing
story about a schoolteacher
troubled by a viper of a
neurotic pupil, a headmaster’s
wife with an amorous eye on
him, and an air-hostess who
can’t decide whether she'll
have him or the spiggotty
Latin-American she’s been
living with. Bill Travers is
wooden as the bewildered
chalkie ; and even the usually
dependable Virginia McKenna
seems unable to bear the
burden of the script.
At Greater Union Theatres.


Telegraphic and Cable address: “Brownhills.”
Telephone: BW 1405 (3 lines).
A. H. BROWNHILL & CO.
(A. H. Brovvnhill, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
27 O’Connell Street - -- -- -- -- - Sydney
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney, Telephone: BW 17U—BW 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Tn a heartening end-of-season spurt, the
1958-59 wool-cheque rose to within
£42.1 million of the proceeds from sales
during 1957-58 —after lagging behind by
£79 million, on a month-by-month basis,
at the end of March. However, an extra
415,588 bales of wool were sold to
achieve this result, the all-round average
price received dropping from 62.6 d. to
48.68 d. a pound.
While the improvement in wool prices
towards the close of the selling-season
halted the disturbing shrinkage in the
wool-cheque, it came too late in the
piece to be of much assistance last term
to Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. Receipts
of wool were fairly well maintained, but
a slip in number of bales actually sold
by the big woolbroker accompanied the
dismal wool-values prevailing for most
of the term and when the books were
ruled-off, on March 31 last, net profit
was down by more than a third on that
of the previous term at a figure barely
half that of the 1957 showing.
The div.-rate was cut from 10 p.c.
to 7 p.c. in the 1958 term, and last year’s
slide in earnings was brought home to
shareholders by lopping-off a further 1
p.c., leaving the average div.-rate for
the past decade at 10 p.c.
Well-armored, financially, against the
inevitable fluctuations in commodity-
prices and seasonal conditions, Golds-
brough, Mort took on corporate status
in 1893, some 45 years after the founda-
tion of the business from which it
developed. One of Australia’s largest
woolbrokers, the Victorian-registered co.
usually handles between 11 and 12 p.c.
of the wool-clip, operating through
branches in all mainland capitals and
in nearly 170 country centres. The co.
is also prominent as a pastoral-financier,
stock-and-station agent and merchant,
and, as a station-owner, is in business
as a woolgrower on its own account.
All in f.-p. £1 ords., paid capital rose
to £4,800,000 in 1957, on completion of
a one-for-five par issue. The fresh funds
have helped the co. to meet the demands
for finance arising from the subsequent
decline in rural incomes and, at the same
time, to continue with the steady expan-
sion of its own organisation.
At 4,734,901 bales, last season’s total
wool-clip was 382,388 bales above the
previous season’s production and, in size,
second only to the record 1956-57 clip.
Principal buyers were again U.K., Japan,
France and Italy, in that order. Sales,
at 4,790,282 bales, were 9.5 p.c. higher
than in the preceding year but total pro-
ceeds dropped by approximately 12.5 p.c.
to £295,652,526:
Average
Bales Sold. Value. Per Bale.
1956- .. 4,886,561 £482,859,860 £9B 16 3
1957- . . 4,374,694 336,770,554 77 4 3
1958- , . 4,790,282 295,652,526 61 14 5
Preliminary forecasts suggest that re-
ceipts into store during 1959-60 will
reach 4,963,000 bales and total wool-pro-
duction the equivalent of 1670-million
pounds greasy wool. This would exceed
the previous record (1956-57) by 96,000
bales or about 100-million pounds greasy.
Goldsbrough, Mort’s receipts of wool
last term were a trifle (1000 bales) lower
at 547,000 bales, but the number of bales
on which earnings were brought into
account fell by 73,704 to 511,165, while
the average price received was almost
30 p.c. below that of the previous year.
An extra 36,505 bales (97,651 bales) of
unsold wool were carried-over into the
current term.
The value of land sold during the term
slipped by £840,000, to £5,935,000, and
although the decline in both the quantity
and value of wool sold was responsible
for most of the drop in net earnings, the
smaller, individual wool - cheques also
showed-up in a lower return from merch-
andising activities. An improvement in
sheep-, cattle- and pig - sales appears to
have been the only offset to these move-
ments, total turnover tumbling by app-
roximately £l9 million to something over
£75 million.
Including a smaller investment income
(down £46,600 at £51,110), net profit was
reckoned at £374,993, or £195,007 under
the previous term’s effort, after sending
£298,000 (down £162,000) to provision
for taxation, a little-changed £370,239
to the depreciation provision, and nothing
(£125,000 in 1958) to the already sub-
stantial provision for doubtful debts:
Net
Mar., Earnings. , Dividend—- Reserves.
£ £ £
Goodwill written off, £25,752 ]
1955 ~ 674,297 10 p.c. = 400,000 j 3,599,605
Special grant staff fund, £26,000., J
Tax qverprovided, £7556 . . . . 3,607,161
Goodwill written off, £l5OO "|
1956 .. 606,028 8 p,e. = 320,000 j 3,765,689
Special grant staff fund, £26,000 J
Capital profits, £96,507 .. .. 3,862,190
Tak everprovided, £2222 .. .. 3,864,418
Goodwill written off. £12,539 ]
1957 .. 743,470 10 p.c. - 400,000 1 4,163,349
Special grant staff fund, £32,000 J
Tax overprovided, £44,517 .. .. 4,207,866
Goodwill written off, £17,660 ]
1958 . . 570,000 7 p.c. = 330,000 f- 4,399,206
Special grant staff fund, £25,000 j
Profit sale assets. £11,064 .. 4,410,270
Investment-prov. disclosed, £62,989.. 4,473,259
Goodwill written-off, £27,829 ) - KQO
1959 .. 374,993 6 p.p. = 288,000 j
As usual, the co. appears to have made
a rather conservative estimate of its
earnings and, even if the whole of the
investment income were subject to tax,
the tax-provision would still be appro-
priate to net profit of over £500,000.
At its lowest point since 1947, the div.-
rate, at 6 p.c., called for all but £86,993
of the smaller profit, the earning-rate
on share-capital dropping to 7.8 p.c.,
compared with 11.4, 18.5, 12.7, 16.8 and
20.1 p.c. back to 1954.
Weaker wool values made their most
obvious mark on the solid-looking bal-
ance-sheet in the anticipated increase in
advances to woolgrowers and, although
requests for accommodation had passed
their peak by balance-date —and have
continued to decline in the current term-
advances, etc., rose by £887,263 over the
year. Holdings of cash, bonds, etc., were
drawn-on to the tune of £652,078 to help
cover this increase and an additional
£440,476 was gathered-in on fixed deposit,
while further funds were provided by a
£297,157 cut in stocks.
However, increased borrowings were
offset by reductions in clients’ balances
and provisions, the sum of current liabil-
ities and provisions actually dropping by
£70,471:
1057. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £4,000,000 £4,800,000 £4,500,000
Share applica-
tions .. 308,042
Reserves .. 4,163,349 4,399,206 4,532,423
Mortgage .. 1,493,562 1,463,287 1,433,012
Deposits . . 26,543 26,164 466,640
Overdraft ] f 1,669,261
Creditors, etc. \ 9,933,485 8,198,521 -j 6,092,727
Start' funds J [ 266,974
Tax provision 1.148,826 1,120,706 803,318
Final divs. .. 280,000 192,000 168,000
£21,353,807 £20,199,884 £20,232,355
Freeholds, etc. 3,325,353 3,573,793 3,611,006
Plant . . . . 909,640 1,005,677 1,002,521
Stocks .. 888,458 1,133,857 836,700
Shares, Fenwick
and Co. . . 73,636 73,536 73,586
Shares other cos, 72,358 69,848 130,234
Advances, etc. 13,301,009 12,661,992 13,549,255
Cash, bonds, etc. 2,783,444 1,681,181 1,029,103
£21,353,807 £20,199,884 £20,232,355
The new Victorian Companies Act is
beginning to show-up in the accounts
published by Victorian cos., and, when
making the required alterations in last
term’s accounts, Goldsbrough, Mort took
the opportunity of disclosing a provision
for doubtful debts of £853,215 and a
stock-provision of £115,000. These two
items have been deducted from the appro-
priate assets in the above table, an invest-
ment-fluctuation reserve of £62,989 being
included with reserves.
The steady expansion of branch
strength continued over the year, with the
absorption of four small businesses and
the establishment of four new branches,
depreciation and the sale of premises,
plant, etc., limiting the increase in fixed-
asset book-values (cost, less depreciation)
to £34,057. During the term various wool-
brokers joined in the formation of cos.
intended to facilitate the handling of
wool in Albany (W,A.) and Newcastle
(N.S.W.), Goldsbrough, Mort’s share-
interest in these concerns accounting for


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange .
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel.'B 5900.
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. F. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
{Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEYITTCO”
Phone: SI 27G1 (4 Fines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
most of the extra £60,386 against shares
in other cos.
The current term began with the wool
market in a more confident mood, and,
aided by the large carry-over of wool
and stronger quotes for both wool and
stock, results for the first couple of
months are reported to have been “very
much better” than those in the corre-
sponding period of 1958.
Results for the full term will depend,
of course, on the trend of wool prices
during the selling season scheduled to
commence on August 24 next and, at this
stage, it seems likely that the season will
open on a firm note. Bids at this month’s
auctions in London appear to confirm
earlier hopes in this direction.
Sharemarket support for Goldsbrough,
Mort 20s. ords. has strengthened accord-
ingly, and the scrip, which fetched
around 275. at the end of last term,
changed hands last week at 31s. 3d. to
yield £3 16s. lOd. p.c. from a 6 p.c. div.
A return to the “basic” 7 p.c. div.-rate
shouldn't prove too difficult, in which
case the yield would rise to £4 9s. 7d.
p.c., increasing by 12s. 9d. p.c. for every
1 p.c. added to the div.-rate. Visible net
cover at March 31 last was a sub-
stantial 38s. lid.
William Adams & Co., Ltd.
Manufacturers in the excavating,
earthmoving and allied construction
industries can expect the current term to
bring a sharpening intensity to the already
fiercely competitive province in which
they operate. A close relationship exists
between demand for this type of equip-
ment and the level of Government spend-
ing on roads, aerodromes, forestry, water-
storage and irrigation, opencut mining
and similar public works. Measured in
real terms, Government outlay in these
directions has been practically static for
the last seven years. In the same period
several new manufacturers have set-up
business, so that, failing an increase in
governmental expenditure on public
works, the cumulative effect of over-
supply will tend to force marginal
producers to either close-down, or, as
is more likely, channel their capacity into
other fields of manufacture.
William Adams taps an Australia-wide
market, and, in addition, enjoys a
generous diversification of interests a
fortunate combination in present circum-
stances, and one that should enable the
co. to withstand the jostling of rival
organisations. The co.’s activities em-
brace the merchandising throughout Aus-
tralia of a wide variety of steels, machine-
tools, hand-tools and engineering-sup-
plies, and, as agents for C. A. Parsons
and Co., Ltd.y the sale and erection of
power - generating and other electrical
equipment. Through William Adams
Tractors Pty., the co. holds the Victorian
and Tasmanian franchises for the well-
known Caterpillar range of tractors,
earthmoving equipment, etc.; a second
offshoot, William Adams Steel Reinforce-
ment Co. Pty. (N.S.W.), specialises in
steel-bending and the production of steel
reinforcements for use by building-con-
tractors. The co. also has a controlling-
interest in Griffiths Bros. Ferrodor Paint
Co. Pty., and holds the distributing-
rights for another U.K. manufacturer,
Perry Chain Co., Ltd. Other agencies
cover automatic production-tools from
New Britain-Gridley (U.S.A.) and Andre
Bechler, Ltd. (Switzerland), and general-
engineering plant from Worthington
Corp. (U.S.A.).
The big (£6-million) expansion-pro-
gramme undertaken in Australia by
Caterpillar Tractor Co. of U.S.A. has
freed the tractor offshoot from some of
the problems associated with the supply
of dollar-goods, and with the develop-
ment of the American co.’s plans in
Australia and Scotland, William Adams
Tractors dropped the John Deere fran-
chise (tractors, farm-equipment, etc.) the
term before last and have since then
concentrated on the Caterpillar range.
Last year, William Adams’s profit was
of record proportions:
William Adams and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. f Dividends serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1954.. 200,686' 15 p.c. = 108,750 91,936 761,500
Added insurance reserve, £4682 . . 766,182
Tax overprovided, £lO,OOO . . . . 776,182
1955. .232,792 15 p.c. r: 108,750 124,042 900,224
To insurance reserve, £6024 .. .. 906,248
Asset revaluation, £55,000 . . . . 961,248
1956. .228,909 15 p.c. = 108,750 120,159 1,081,407
Share premiums, £9981 . . .. 1,091,388
Reserves capitalised, £145,000 .. 946,388
Tax overprovided, £16,000 .. .. 962,388
To insurance reserve, £5765 .. 968,153
1957. .211,948 15 p.c. = 144,000 67,948 1,036,101
Tax overprovided, £15,500 .. .. 1,051,601
Share-premiums, £10,019 .. .. 1,061,620
Added insurance reserve, £5631 . . 1.067,251
1958. .202,504 15 p.e. = 175,950 26,854 1,094.105
Added on consolidation, £2798 . . 1,096,903
Transferred from prov. contingencies
previously included with creditors,
£ 65,000 1,161,903
Tax overprovided, £4613 .. .. 1,166,516
Asset revaluation, £200,000 . . 1,366,516
1959. .229,403' 15 p.c. = 177,900 51,503 1,418,019
At £229,403 (higher than 1958 by
£26,599), after tax~ £156,568 (up £5057)
and depreciation £67,827 (up £997), it
represented a return on capital equal to
19.1 p.c., yields back to 1956 being 17.2
p.c., 22.1 p.c. (on an average paid-up
capital of £960,000) and 31.6 p.c. In
1956, simultaneous par (two-for-five) and
bonus (one-for-five) issues were made,
and 40,000 shares were allotted to em-
ployees, the sudden large incidence of
capital bringing about the lower yield
in the following year. Sales for 1959
were substantially higher than for the
previous term, and gross income was
well up. In some sections gross-profit
rates rose, but generally were lower than
in the previous term —a reflection of the
strong competition prevailing throughout
the period. Operating-expenses were
rigidly controlled, and, as a ratio to sales,
showed a slight improvement. For the
fourth successive year, shareholders
received a 15 p.c. div., equal to a return
of 4.9 p.c. on the 61s. 3d. recently paid
on the Sydney ’change for the 20s. shares.
In 1958, to finance development, the
co. raised a £200,000 loan (secured by
mortgage on freehold property) from the
A.M.P. Last term the loan was increased
to £390,000. The funds provided were
used in the main for re-siting the Vic-
torian branch on the Geelong Road
Partly stemming from this expenditure
and partly the result of a £200,000 re-
valuation of assets, the book-values of
freehold property and plant increased
to £1,141,664 (up £453,022) and £300,267
(up £62,443) respectively.
During the year reserves rose to a
sound £1,418,019 (up £323,9i4). The
main factors contributing to the rise
were the revaluation of assets by
£200,000, profit left after payment of
divs. (£51,503) and provision for con-
tingencies (£65,000), now transferred
from sundry creditors:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £1,167,114 £1,180,000 £1,200,000
Reserves .. .. 1,036,101 1,091,105 1,418,019
Sundry provisions 41,000
Minority interests 8,168
Overdraft .. .. 712,579 668,512 710,807
Mortgage .. • • —* 200,000 390,000
Notes . . .. 287,008
Creditors*.. .. 817,414 776,448 922,264
Staff fund .. 80,000
Tax provision .. 212,475 167,207 170,752
Final divs. .. 91,800 105,750 107,100
£4,037,483 £4,192,022 £5,335,118
Freeholds.. .. 666,040 688,642 1,141,664
Plant, etc. .. 229,466 237,824 300,267
Shares .. .. 42,313 50,006 20,177
Stocks .. .. 2,073,095 2,170,491 2,443,866
Debtors . . .. 1,025,190 1,045,059 1,429,144
Cash, bonds .. 1,379
£4,037,483 £4,192,022 £5,335,118
* Included provision for contingencies, staff benefit
and long-service leave provision and sundry pro-
visions until and including 1958, and in 1956 only,
provision for taxation.
Working-capital increased by £423,454
to £1,921,087. Stocks, valued at lower
of cost or market - value less reserves
£285,000 (amount disclosed for the first
time), were greater at £2,443,866 (up
£273,375), perhaps to be expected under
present conditions of trading, where the
seller is obliged to carry a full range
of stock all the time. Debtors, less
reserves £102,000 (amount disclosed for
the first time) reached £1,429,144 (up
£384,085). Bank accommodation was
availed of to a greater extent. At balance-
date the overdraft stood at £710,807 (up
£42,295). Creditors at first glance appear
to have increased by £145,816, but have
actually risen £315,816, the difference
arising from the regrouping of sundry
provisions, staff fund, and reserves for
contingencies.
The implementation of a dynamic
expansion programme and the financial
needs of a steadily growing volume of
business have necessitated the introduc-
tion of additional working-capital. Share-
holders were invited to subscribe to an


KILLARA - SYDNEY
43 Stanhope Road (fast Side)
£16,500
This gracious Home is set in a beautiful garden site in this
exclusive locality. There are 3 reception rooms, 5 bedrooms,
sep. s.c. maid's quarters, 3 bathrooms, 4 toilets. The condition
is immaculate, all fixed floor coverings, blinds, curtains, wash
mach., are included. The vendor will be pleased to discuss
details of price, etc., with any party seriously interested
personally.
Phone: BM 3431 or BM 6055 Sydney
issue at par of £1 6 p.c.
registered, unsecured convert-
ible notes in the ratio of one
note for every two stock-units
held at March 13, Last
balance-date (April 30) saw
£287,008 in hand by way of
advance applications. The
issue has now been fully sub-
scribed. The notes are con-
vertible into ordinary stock-
units of £1 each on April 30,
1965, and note-holders will be
entitled to participate in any
issues by the co. of ord.
shares or convertible notes
made prior to that date.
The current term may see
a lift in the co.’s profits, but
this will tend to be gradual
rather than spectacular, and,
in any case, shareholders
should not expect immediate
gains either in divs. or capital.
Recent recovery in prices of
primary products will contri-
bute to a livelier total earnings.
At balance-date net tangible
cover for each of the £1 ords.
was 435. Bd.
intercolonial Boring Co.
/Comparable to the good surf-
ing on Gold Coast beaches,
Queensland’s rising wave of
development provides an attrac-
tive “shoot” for 1.8. C. to ride
on. Administrative centre of
the co. is in Brisbane’s Anne
Street, where an interesting
display of the co.’s merchan-
dise may be seen. Workshops
are located at Yeerongpilly,
along with storage facilities for
heavy equipment. Branches
have been acquired in Towns-
ville and Rockhampton, and, a
few months ago, in Cairns.
Distribution to the southern
States is effected through the
store and office in Sydney. The
co also engages in the export-
trade, and last year several
large pump orders (patented
centrifugal pumps) were re-
ceived from South African
agents.
Intercolonial Boring, though
registered in 1912, has been
trading altogether for 71 years.
In the triple role of merchant,
engineer and contractor, it
specialises in water-faising
equipment, engineering and
mill supplies, machinery, tools
of trade, plumbing and electric
motors. To finance a growing
business and an expanding
range of activity, new capital
was raised in 1956, Share-
holders were offered two new
shares for each five then held,
paid capital rising, on com-
pletion of the issue, from
£344,570 to the present
£482,398.
Last year saw profits the
highest to date:
To Re- Re-
Oct., Prft. >, serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
’55..86,388 15 = 51,686 34,702 305,287
’56..90,532 15 = 52,978 37,554 342,841
Profit sale property, £9643 352,484
Provision staff-training - plan
written-off, £3346 • • 355,830
’57..97.104 15 = 69,345 27,759 383,589
’58..99,045 15 = 72,360 26,685 410,274
At £99,045, after making pro-
vision for tax £66,000 (down
£16,500) and setting aside
£14,721 for depreciation (down
£8769), they represented a
yield of 20.5 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal. This compares favorably
with corresponding yields for
the three preceding years:
20.1 p.c,, 21.7 p.c. and 25
p.c. back to 1955. Since 1955
new capital has not earned at
quite the same, rate as the old.
(The high depreciation pro-
vided for in 1957 was in effect
a setting-aside of funds in
anticipation of the arrival of a
new punch-card accounting
system.) Profits in 1957 were
helped by a high demand for
pumping and irrigation equip-
ment, a direct consequence of
prolonged drought conditions
experienced in Queensland.
Last term saw an easing of this
exceptional demand, no doubt
influenced in part by the down-
ward trends in prices of
primary products, so that the
profit earned despite these de-
pressive influences, becomes
even more a pointer to the
achievement of the co. For
the fourth successive year
shareholders received a div.
of 15 p.c. The yield to inves-
tors is 5.1 p.c. at 58s. 6d.,
the price the 20s. shares fetched
last week on the Brisbane
’Change.
The balance-sheet further
amplifies the strength of
1.8. C.:
1957. 1958.
Paid capital £482,398 £482,398
Reserves .. 383,589 410,274
Mortgage .. 109,000 105,000
Provision f o r
property allo-
cations, etc, . . 2,077
Creditors . . 140,653 118,246
Tax provision .. 161,759 169,057
Staff benefit fund 17,672 17,315
Final div. . . 36,180 36,180
£1,333,328 £1,338,470
Freehold
properties .. 125,431 132,164
Plant, etc. .. 53,622 97,924
Advances . . 26,353 16,383
Investments .. 31,069 76,069
Stocks .. . . 578,376 582,285
Debtors, bills re-
ceivable, etc.. . 406,407 380,077
Cash, deposits,
etc. . . .. 112,070 53,568
£1,333,328 £1,338,470
Reserves rose by £26,685 to a
substantial £410,274. The loan
on mortgage was. reduced by
£4OOO. Freehold properties
are valued very conservatively.
The book-figures are based on
original purchase-prices, and
in the case of the Brisbane
properties have been much
reduced by depreciation
written-off over many years.
For example, the head-office in
Anne Street is worth, on to-
day’s values, something in the
vicinity of £130,000. The
book-value, by comparison,
shows it at a mere 119,000-
odd.
Plant, etc., rose consider-
ably, in all £44,302, to £97,924.
During the year several vehicles
were bought, bringing the fleet
aggregate of trucks and cars
to 48, but the major contribut-
ing factor to the higher plant
figure was the installation last
September of the new punch-
card accounting system.
Investments cover a small
shareholding in Q. H. Martin
Bright Steel and short-term
debenture stock in Industrial
Acceptance Corporation, Ltd.
They were built up by £45,000
last year.
Working - capital fell to
£675,132 (down £65,457). The
drop is relatively small. The
co.’s financial position remains
sound and its liquid position is
good. Stocks increased slightly.
Most merchandise lines were
readily available, although
difficulty was, and still is,
experienced in the supply of
some sections of the steel and
steel - products department.
Debtors were still fairly high,
reflecting brisk turnover and


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase company
in Australia,
M3C
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years 7%
4 years 6Vi% 3 years 6% 2 years 5Va%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 3Va%
mBEBBIEXnxni
Application Forms and Prospectus
• Any A.G.C. Branch • Your Stockbroker
• Bank of New South Wales at any Branch
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaida • Perth
Hobart
Underwriting broken: lAN POTTER & CO.
S 2
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
contributing, together with the
lowered creditors, to the fall
in cash (£58,502, down to
£53,568).
Shareholders can look for-
ward with some degree of con-
fidence to an increase in either
their equity interest or divi-
dend-distribution perhaps
both.
At balance date, net tangible
cover for the 20s. shares was
375.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd.
anxious to counter
* * rising costs by recaptur-
ing some of the trade lost to
suburban centres, Sydney
retailer Mark Foy’s, Ltd., has
yet to be convinced that the
establishment of suburban
branches would show a reason-
able return on the capital-
outlay involved.
In Mark Foy’s case, this
problem is underlined by the
boost given to the apparent
earning-power of existing fixed-
assets through ignoring, in their
book-value, the effects of infla-
tion. If the co.’s property and
plant were in the books at
current valuation, instead of at
“only a fraction of their present
worth,” the disparity between
the earning-power of new and
old assets would probably be
far less marked. The situation
is by no means peculiar to
Mark Foy’s, of course.
An old-established trader,
Mark Foy’s was founded in
1885 and this year will cele-
brate the fiftieth anniversary
of its incorporation as a public
co. At present the co.’s only
retail outlet is a large freehold
department-store bounded by
Elizabeth,- Castlereagh and
Liverpool Streets, a position
which attracts less store-traffic
today than it did in earlier
years.
Suburban branches or not,
chairman H. M. Macken sees
the results of trading at this
store remaining as the main
factor in determining the level
of earnings and, from this
angle, considers that the move-
ment of leading retailers to the
suburbs “can only further
reduce the flow of traffic to the
city.”
Meanwhile, the co/ more
than held its own last term
(to February 28), recovering
much of the ground lost in the
two preceding years with a
16.5 p.c. advance in net
earnings.
Ord. shareholders collected
bigger div.-cheques, too, the
div.-rate, cut from 12| p.c. to
10 p.c. in 1958, rising to 11 p.c.
to give an average rate of
almost 12.5 p.c. p.a. over the
past decade. Paid capital, of
which £272,902 carries a fixed
6 p.c., has been steady at
£813,269 since 1936.
Last term’s improved show-
ing sprang, mainly, from a
higher, but unstated, turnover,
translated into a larger net
profit by the maintenance of
gross-profit margins and a strict
control over expenses. The
increase in sales wasn’t main-
tained, however, over the full
year, being confined to the
period between April, ’5B, and
January, ’59, with a “slight
improvement” occurring again
in the first quarter of the
current term. _
After providing £19,414 (up
£132) for depreciation, gross
earnings for the year climbed
by £43,434 to £1,344,891, a
£28,764 lift in expenses (includ-
ing an undisclosed provision
for tax) leaving net profit
£14,670 above that of the pre-
vious term at £103,099:
— A
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Reserves.
6 p.c. 124 p.c.
£ * £ £ Jj?
Profit sale assets, £7OO .. 563,290
’54. .133,167 16,374 67,546 612,537
Unexplained addition, £875 613,412
15 p.c.
’55. .163,867 16,374 81,054 679,851
Unexplained addition, £1282 681,133
124 p.c.
’56..134.906 16,374 67,546 732,119
Unexplained addition, £230 732,349
’57.. 95,825 16,374 67,546 744,254
Profit sale assets, £4365.. 748,619
10 p.c.
’58.. 88,429 16,374 54.037 766,637
Profit sale assets, £4009 .. 770,646
11 p.c.
’59. .103,099 16,374 59,440 797,931
The bigger ord. div. was
covered without difficulty,
earnings attributable to the
ords. representing a return of
16 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 13:3 p.c. in 1958 and
14.7, 21.9 and 27.5 p.c. back
to 1955. Provision for tax, as
shown in the balance-sheet, was
increased by £14,454 over the
year.
Visible reserves of £797,931
support the £813,269 share-
capital, the balance-sheet dis-
closing a solid and comfort-
able financial structure. A
£32,111 increase in property
reflects various improvements
and “the cost of land recently
purchased,” an interesting
movement on which the board
doesn’t elaborate further:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959.
Pref £272,902 £ 272,902
Ord 540,367 540,367
Reserves.. .. 766,637 797,931
Overdraft .. 395,971 378,470
Creditors . . 207,898 201,311
Sundry provisions 156,512 173,655
Tax reserve .. 60,546 75,000
Final divs. .. 35,206 40,609
£2,436,039 £2,480,245
Property 841,376 872,481
Plant, etc. .. 95,000 85,000
Shares, etc. .. ' 5,340 . 7,215
Stocks . . .. 1,058,128 997,028
Book debts .. 426,673 508,992
Cash, etc. .. 9,528 9,529
£2,436,039 £2,480,245
Stocks, shown at the lower
of cost or market-value, less
provision, were cut by £61,100
over the term and are reported
to be “in good shape,” the
expansion of credit-trading, in
TV-receivers and other items,
helping to swell book-debts by
£82,319. Unearned interest and
provision for liabilities under
TV - maintenance contracts
accounted for most of the
extra £10,556 against sundry
provisions.
Proceeds from the sale of
two cottage-depots, together
with retained earnings and
depreciation provision, easily
covered the capital outlay, the
overdraft dropping by £17,501
and the amount owing to trade
creditors by £6587.
As the chairman sees it,
results in the first quarter of
the current term suggest that
turnover, for the year will “at
least” be equal to that of last
term. If costs can be kept
in check there should be oppor-
tunity for further progress over
the year, but one of the first
hurdles will be the extra
£25,000 p.a. needed to meet the
recent increase in the wage-
rates of female employees.
Backed by net tangibles of
495. 6d. (book-values), the £1
ords. would return £5 19s. Bd.
p.c. from an 11 p.c. div., at
365. 9d. or £6 16s. Id. p.c. in
the event of a return to the
12j p.c. rate.


Your money will
EARN
p.a
O
FOR 3 YEARS AND OVER
NEW £lOO,OOO ISSUE IN
FIXED DEPOSIT NOTES
With Absolute Safety
Your money is absolutely securely invested. There
is £165 security to every £lOO of depositors' money
invested. Deposit monies rank ahead of share capital
for repayments.
With Maximum Return
10% per annum for 3 years and over.
9% per annum for 2 years and over.
8% per annum for 1 year and over.
With Availability
Your money is available on request in an emergency.
WRITE TODAY FOR A PROSPECTUS TO
CO. LTD. BW 2661
2nd floor, 13-15 O’Connell St., Sydney. (10 lines)
YOUR NAME
ADDRESS
8.22/7
M498/I
London Airmail
EUROPEAN HOLIDAY
( Continued)
From Herbert Holman
Calzburg, an hour’s bus-ride
from Berchtesgaden, is
probably the most peeped-at
city in Europe. Coaches by
the hundred park every day in
the squares while their
passengers, from Bavarian
holiday-resorts and the Tyrol,
ascend the Festung by the
ancient hydraulic lift and
generally do the sights.
Italianate and baroque, it
was a fine but rather faded
city ten years ago. Buildings
were shabby from neglect and
war-damage. Now the city has
an entirely new or, more
correctly, neo —face. The civic
authorities are evidently as
mindful of Salzburg’s character
as they are shrewd and far-
seeing. All the new building is
in the style of the old," yet
never pseudo. One suspects,
too, that interiors, past repair
after three or more centuries
of decay, are demolished and
expensively rebuilt within the
old shell which, in turn, is
refurbished in essential recog-
nition of the profitable tourist
industry.
Similarly, the old coach-
roads in the Salzkammergut are
fast disappearing and arterial
ones being laid so that the
tourist traffic can be accom-
modated. A magnificent new
road from Salzburg to Linz and
Vienna is also now practicable,
thanks largely to tourists’
money, and will be completed
this year.
Interlude
Vienna, at the very extreme
of Western Europe, is rather
off the tourist’s map. And it
is not generally considered,
after discounting the fairy-tale
romanticism of operetta and
popular-song, to be particu-
larly rewarding.
A first visit is enough to dis-
prove this opinion. Vienna is
a fine city and, despite its
unhappy vicissitudes, a gracious
°ue. Its monuments, though
mostly built within the last
hundred years, are interesting
and well-cared-for. And its
inhabitants, who have in recent
Years suffered double invasion,
acute privation and much
distress, have a quiet philo-
sophy of living that is quite
heartening.
One certainly didn't expect
to find a little bit of Australia
ne ar the Herrengasse. The
prominent notice, Australian
Immigration Mission, was a
rather unusual interruption to
the morning’s purpose of
seeking-out the homes of
Mozart and Beethoven. In-
side, secretary Russell Wilson
entertained us with a com-
mentary on the country and its
people, and gave us useful
advice. And other people
dropped-in to exchange greet-
ings, including the Chief M. 0.,
Leo - Maginnity, who is well-
known to the Bulletin staff.
After such a friendly welcome,
we were sorry not to be stay-
ing longer.
Immortal Shades
No musie-lover can fail to
be deeply moved by Vienna
and its surroundings. The
hotel, you find by accident, is
in the same block as the
chambers in which Beethoven
lived while composing the
“Missa Solemnis.” You stand
in the room in the Schuler-
strasse where Mozart com-
posed “The Marriage of
Figaro” and where Haydn
visited him. The streetcar to
Grinzing passes Schubert’s
birthplace.
You go on an evening trip
to the Kahlenberg ostensibly
to dine on the terrace and
watch the city light-up, and
you look around. There, just
below the restaurant, lies the
bit of the Vienna Woods which
inspired the second movement
of the Pastoral Symphony.
These are the kind of inci-
dents that happen casually
almost every half-hour. You
are back in the eighteenth-
century without effort of imagi-
nation. Even at the New
Hofburg (which you mistake
for the Old Hofburg) you find
an entrancing Haydn exhibi-
tion with sketches of-two of the
London Symphonies and a
fascinating collection of
musical instruments, including
lutes, theorbos, barytons,
hurdy-gurdies, Haydn’s clavier
and Brahms’s piano.
If you have time you can
explore Wahring, Grinzing,
Heiligenstadt or, further away,
Modling or Baden or Eisen-
stadt to the same effect. We
didn't; but, prompted by Mr.
Wilson, slipped away to Eisen-
stadt, in the Burgenland near
the Hungarian frontier, for the
weekend. This is where Haydn
spent over thirty years in the
service of Count Esterhazy.
The concert-hall is on view as
is the really delightful little
house in the village where
Haydn lived from 1766-78.
Conditions are inclined to
be primitive in the Burgen-
land, which has had the Turks
as invaders as well as the
Romans, G e..r mans and,
recently and unforgettably, the
Russians. The cottagers fer-
ment their own grapes and sell
wine to motorists as others
elsewhere sell fresh eggs. The
hotel at Eisenstadt, though, is
bang up-to-date, with tele-
vision, contemporary furnish-
ings and all.
The time may well be
approaching when many of
these unspoiled links with the
classical masters have to dis-
appear, or, at least, become
isolated—a reflection strong
enough to compel an early
return.
"Gilt and Gingerbread"
Lionel Hale’s “Gilt and
Gingerbread” (Duke of York’s
Theatre) is the traditional
English comedy of (good)
manners, light, insouciant and
ephemeral as the bouquet
of a glass of champagne.
And the odd thing is
that, unlike so many of this
kind, it never seems dated or
old-fashioned. A sign, surely,
that the theatre-in-the-raw
movement is slackening.
There are periods of awk-
wardness when neither author
nor actor is able to sustain the
wit, but so often one laughs
freely at old jokes in new guises
and finds oneself rejoicing at
this new-found pleasure.
The play is a nonsensical
affair about a stockbroker who
loses a fortune in Patagonian
Uranium and whose wife
has expensive tastes. John
Clements and Kay Hammond,
with tailor-made parts, are
brilliantly supported by a team
who make light of the situa-
tional absurdities and delicate
timing. It is a “Private Lives”
without the cynicism, and
especially delightful is the way
everybody “plays against the
line.” You just can’t believe
a word of the nonsense, and
are glad you’re not meant to.


Wolu Passage
By
JAMES
MEADE
‘ < rTTT ell, Joe,” one of the
\Y/ Europeans said,
VV “you may not be
- the most brilliant
character in Suva, but you cer-
tainly know where to get fish.”
The big part - European
grunted and stepped up on to
the wharf from his small,
battered launch. He had the
fingers of his right hand
hooked into the gill slots of
a four-foot barracuda. His
biceps bulged as he lifted the
tapering, flaccid body, bring-
ing the underslung jaw up to
eye-level, the tail swinging
clear of the wharf’s worn
planks. A few teeth stuck out
from the clamped mouth like
misplaced needles ; the round,
yellow eyes had shilling-sized
black pupils and the scales were
like hammered silver.
Joe slung the fish on to the
pile of bream, cod and
mackerel that they had already
unloaded from the launch ; the
barracuda’s body made a heavy,
slapping noise as it hit and
slithered.
The four Europeans stood
around the pile, admiring the
play of early sunlight on the
shiny-scaled fish. The men
were dirty and unshaven, tired
out by a straight 12 hours of
fishing. But now it was Sun-
day, and there was almost
2001 b. of gutted and gilled fish
at their feet, so Joe knew that
they would be pleased to pay
his charter price.
“I like to go now, Mr.
Allen,” he said. “You can give
me my money?”
“Of course, Joe. Here, here’s
the money. And Joe —there’s
still the best part of
a bottle of rum on
board. You keep it,
feller. It was a first-
class trip. I’ll get
in touch with your
brother if we want
to go out next week-
end. Fair enough?”
Joe nodded and
stuffed the notes into
the pocket of his
filthy khaki shorts.
He dropped lightly
into the cockpit of
the launch and started the
engine. One of the Europeans
cast-off for him and the four
of them waved goodbye as he
headed the chugging launch
out of Nabukalau Creek and
across the harbor.
A light swell slapped the
stubby bows of the launch as
he crossed the main passage,
and the sun was warm on his
back. Swinging the wheel to
starboard, he set a course that
angled a few degrees to the
west of the beacons in the
shaggy hills behind Lami,
watching the palm-trees that
marched along the shore
gradually draw closer.
He moored the launch in
the glossy - leafed mangroves
that choked the mouth of a
small creek and began thread-
ing a length of cord through
the gill-slots and mouths of
his own share of the catch.
When he had finished, he slung
the bundle over his shoulder,
stulfed the bottle of rum inside
his T-shirt, then followed an
almost imperceptible track that
wound in amongst the stiff-
fingered mangrove roots.
Finally, he came out onto a
narrow strip of sand and
plodded along past the beach-
fronting houses until he came
to a low, coral-stone wall. He
climbed over the wall and
walked up to the veranda-steps
of the old wooden house where
he lived with his brother and
his brother’s wife.
A nna sat on the veranda rail,
combing out her long hair,
the cloud of black tendrils
veiling her face.
When she heard the pad of
Joe’s feet on the steps, she
swung her head so that the
hair flew back to hang around
her shoulders. She was wear-
ing a floral bula-shirt knotted
below her breasts ; a span of
brown skin separated the knot
and the top of her jeans. The
two top buttons of the bula-
shirt were undone and the


SAVE
£5OO to
£lOOO P.A.
IN TAX
This Year and
Each Year
(or the Next 5 Years
A strictly Limited Offer of
Outstanding Tax Savings
Opportunity to Recipients
of
Higher-than-average
Incomes
Particulars by Personal
Interview. For Appoint-
ment, phone—-
MA 9855
D. M. CLARKE
& COMPANY
Tax Consultants
11 Randle Street, Sydney.
dusky shadow between her
breasts moved as she lifed her
elbows to braid her hair. She
had tilted, sombre eyes and
features like the young Poly-
nesians that Gauguin painted.
“Sa,” she said. “That’s a
good haul of fish, Joe. The
Europeans take their share
already?”
“Course. What you think?
They pay me for nothing?”
“No need to give me a
growling, Joe. Lucky for them
they got you to take them out.
How much they pay?”
“What they always do;
twenty-five bob each man. And
Mr. Allen give me this bottle
of rum. They never get much
time to drink when I take
them out. Only the beer
finished on the way out yester-
day afternoon.”
Joe put the brown bottle on
the wooden table and dumped
the fish on a sack in a shady
corner of the veranda. Anna
picked up the bottle ; it was
three-quarters full.
“You want one rum now,
Joe?” she said. “You look
tired, out all night like that.”
“Yeah, I’ll drink some rum
before I scale these fish.
Where’s Reg? Still sleeping?”
“No, he have to go to work
this morning. Some job they
want finished quick, so he have
to work overtime. ’ He won’t
be back till midday. Just you
and me home.”
Anna went into the kitchen
and came back with two
tumblers and a bottle of cold
water from the kerosene re-
frigerator. Joe slumped into a
chair, yawning, then poured the
rums with his left hand, the one
from which two fingers had
been scalpelled by a fighting
mackerel.
“The money’s not bad,”
Anna said. “I mean, from the
charters you do. Say you did
two or three a week and add
to what you get from selling
fish: you could make good
money. But you really need
a bigger boat, eh?”
Joe squinted across the table
at her, the fish-hook scar on
his cheek puckering, pale and
shiny against his swarthy skin.
Anna was leaning forward, her
breasts pushed up by the edge
°f the table, her eyes intent and
her lips parted.
“Course I want a bigger
boat,” he said. “Who
wouldn’t?”
“Well, did you think about
what I said the other day?”
“Yeah. But Reg is my
brother. He always looked
after me, right from when I
w as a kid, when they used to
tease 5 me at school because I
wasn’t smart like the other
kids.”
“But you don’t have to
worry about that now,” she
said. “You’re big, bigger than
him, and strong. And you
don’t need schooling when you
know fishing like you do. I
can worry about the business
side for you, Joe. I’d be good
for you, Joe. Lots of ways.”
CJhe put out' her hand and
ran her pointed nails along
his thick-muscled, hairy fore-
arm and mutilated hand. Joe
stared at her, small hard lights
in his eyes, looking out from
deep under his heavy brows.
“And what about you, Anna?
What do you get?”
“Reg is past middle-age ; too
old for me. He had one wife
before; now his kids all
married and living away.
You’re still young, Joe. And
he’ll never be more than just
another half - caste welder,
working for the firm until they
say he’s no good any more.”
“But he’s my brother.”
“Listen, Joe. Even if he is
your brother, this house
belongs to you, too. Your
father left it to the both of
you. You should have more
than just one room here. You
could have it ail, Joe. His in-
surance money could buy a
real good launch and myself,
I could have plenty of clothes.
And you know a lot of
Europeans, from fishing. We
could go to the Yacht Club
and I’d dress up for you, Joe ;
I’d make myself real pretty for
you.”
She sat back, breathing
deeply, tiny diamonds of sweat
in the lip-curve below her nose.
Joe continued to stare at her
while he fumbled for the rum
bottle, then he grunted and
poured rum into his own glass.
“Joe, try to understand,”
Anna said. “You think he
always look after you, but
that’s not so. He laughs at
you, he thinks you not all
there in the head, you just a
big, stupid monkey that can’t
do anything but fish.”
“Not true. Reg practically
brought me up after our people
died.”
“Joe,” she said, “what I’m
telling you is the fact.”
Joe swallowed the rum and
stood up. He took a knife from
the canvas bag that hung on
the wall near the kitchen door
and groped in the bag for a
sandstone. He began to sharpen
the knife, his head bent, one
bulky shoulder hiding his face
from Anna. Abruptly, he sat
down again and concentrated
on the knife, which he sharp-
ened with a weaving rhythmic
motion.
“But I don’t like it to be
on the launch,” he said. “Reg
help me build that launch. And
he lend me the money to buy
the engine.”
“You paid him back, didn’t
you? Listen, Joe, it’s got to
be on the launch because it’s
got to look like an accident.
I tried to do it by myself, with
something in his food, but it
only made him sick. I'm
frightened to try that again.”
Joe looked curiously at her,
then lowered his head again.
Anna came around the table
and knelt in front of him, hold-
ing his hands to still the
monotonous, grating swish of
the steel against the sandstone.
Her eyes were bright, her
mouth moist, and he could
see that there was no brassiere
under her bula-shirt.
“All right,” he said. “If I
got to, well, all right.”
“You won’t be sorry, Joe.
You wait till it’s over. I'll be
real good to you, Joe.”
She got to her feet with a
single movement of her
dancer’s thighs and stood
behind him, looking down onto
his tousled hair, kneading his
shoulder muscles with subtle
fingers.
“When, Joe?”
“I don’t know. You say it.
I can’t think like that.”
“Today, Joe. We take the
launch out this afternoon. Then
it will be over and we will have
tonight.”
“Tide turns half-past two.
Full tide nearly dark. The
sharks be coming in at Walu
Passage then.”
“You know, eh? You always
know about things like that,
eh?”
“What you mean? Think
I’m stupid, too? I only know
about fishing, you think?”
“No, man, no. You’re smart,
Joe, but specially about the
sea. That’s where you beat
everyone.”
Joe grunted and went on
sharpening the knife while the
shadow of the pawpaw - tree
that grew next to the steps
reached out to cover the bottle
of rum.
HThe sun was well over to
the west, hanging in the
flat blue sky, ready for the
final plunge into the mass of
kapok clouds that had bundled
themselves together on the
horizon. The launch tugged at
the anchor, nudged by the tide
that poured in through the
figure-8 of the coral valley
that formed Walu Passage.
The continual, muted roar
of the sea breaking on the reef
numbed the air, so that the
launch seemed alone and
stationary in time, as though
nothing existed except the heat
shimmering on the water and
the crescendo of the waves
and the hypnotic rocking of
the boat.
Joe slouched against the ply-
wood bulkhead that separated
the engine-room from the cock-
pit. His eyes were red-rimmed
and bloodshot and he blinked
frequently. Opposite him, on
the port bench, Anna was sit-
ting cross-legged and picking
shreds of tobacco from an
untidy cigarette. Her husband,
Joe’s brother, sat in the stern.
Occasionally he hefted the
nylon line that angled down
into the chill, blue water of
the passage.
Reg was a short, stocky man,
with a cropped frizz of grey
hair surrounding his bald spot;
he had a wry, lined face and
sad, shuttered eyes. He hawked
and spat over the side, then
looked down at the floor of
the cockpit; it was covered
with sea-urchins, their short
spikes moving in white ranks
on shells of mauve, orange,
silver and brown. On top of
{Continued on page 35)


Fire on
By
H. P. ("Duke") TRITTON
The powder - monkey
tamped-down the last of
the pop-shots in the toe
of the cutting, glanced at
the shovellers scraping the
remnants of stone and mullock
from the shots of three days
back and walked over to the
ganger. “Ready Alf?” he
asked.
Alf looked at the lorries
nearly loaded and replied
“Gimme ten minutes.”
The powder-monkey nodded
and went back to where his
fuses were laid-out like thin
black snakes. A tall, middle-
aged man, with an air of casual
efficiency, he was the most im-
portant man in the gang. As the
cutting was being worked from
both ends his was the responsi-
bility of blasting out enough
spoil to keep 60 men. working.
If he failed through a faulty
shot, or misjudged the amount
of fracteur necessary to shatter
the stone so that it .could be
handled, it meant that not only
would his reputation suffer, but
men would be out of work. And
in 1936 it was not nice to be out
of work.
He was slightly worried. He
had been using electrical
detonators, but his battery had
been taken in to the depot for
overhaul, and he had to use
fuses for these shots. Fuses
were all right for scattered
shots, but for a close group he
much preferred the battery.
With it there would be one
explosion; fuse-shots had to
be counted carefully to ensure
none had misfired. And as
they fired in rotation a fuse
would sometimes be squeezed
by the preceding shot and slow-
down its burning-rate, and two
shots would sound as one. Or
it might burn long enough for
him to give the “Ali clear” and
walk up to it. So a powder-
monkey’s job has no margin
for errors.
He wasn’t worried about the
deep shots. Standing back
12ft. from the cut, sloping
slightly to the toe, they were
18ft. deep, and each had 8001 b.
of blasting-powder, topped by
a hundred plugs of gelignite.
It had taken him a day and a
half to bull and load them.
Bulling is the art of a powder-
monkey’s job. As the drills
bored only a 2in. hole it would
be impossible to get sufficient
fracteur down to bring out the
hundreds of tons of stone
needed to keep a big gang of
men working. So the hole has
to be expanded ; and to ensure
an effective shot the expansion
has to be close to the bottom.
He put a rubber ring on the
tamping-rod and checked the
depth, dropped two plugs down,
cut off 12in. of fuse, crimped
a detonator on, made a hole
with a wooden skewer and put
it in a plug. This is the
priming- or firing-charge. He
had gone about this operation
surely and steadily. Fulminate
of mercury is very touchy, and
twisting or pressing the fuse
will explode it. And though
barely an eighth-of-an-inch is
in a detonator, its explosive
force is from 601 b. to 801 b. an
inch. .So no sensible powder-
monkey ever plays with
detonators. He knew several
ex-powder-monkeys with only
one hand.
He lit the short fuse, slid
the primer down, poured a
two-quart billy of water after
it to seal the hole, and stepped
back. A shower of fine spray
came with the explosion. This
shot expanded the bottom of
the drill-hole to a cavity some-
what bigger than a cricket-ball.
This was filled with gelignite
and the process repeated, the
powder-monkey feeling after
every shot with the rod for the
top of the bull-hole till the
rubber ring was on the 14ft.-
mark. He now had a cavity
of about 4ft. in diameter, and
the hole was ready for loading.
It was ten o’clock next morn-
ing before the third was
ready. According to the regu-
lations of the Railway Con-
struction Branch, no smoking
is allowed within 100yds. of
where powder is being loaded.
So he looked over the cut and
grinned at the men below:
“I’m loading with powder, so
you blokes better put out your
smokes unless you want to get
blown to hell.”
Thirty faces looked up, some
cursed him cheerfully, one man
protested: “Damn you for a
bloody old nark. I’ve only just
lit-up.” Another said “Don’t
be too hard on the old bastard.
He was born that way.”
“I wouldn’t mind blowing
up the lot of you, only I’d go
too, and I’d hate to be buried
with such a lot of useless
cows,” he replied, adding:
“Alf is down the other end.”
Work ceased on the instant ;
pipes and cigarettes were lit,
and the men lolled about,
enjoying a few minutes of
stolen time, while he fiddled
about, .testing the holes with
the rod.
This ganger was a tough
man, wise in the ways of
pick-and-shovel men, who,
without the co-operation of the
powder-monkey, would never
have a chance to crib a bit of
the boss’s time. And the
ganger trusted him, a trust
which he shamelessly betrayed.
He knew that the cutting was
four weeks ahead of the
engineer’s estimate, and knew
that he would gain another two
weeks before it was through.
But it would be the ganger who
got the pat on the back while,
if the position was reversed, it
would be he who got the sack.
He gave the men five minutes,
then all smokes were carefully
extinguished. Men, even when
on relief-work, like to keep on
living, though existing seems a
more suitable word for-those
depression days.
Through a large copper
funnel he started pouring
powder, testing frequently to
make sure it was going down.
Blasting-powder, with its large,
irregular grains, clogs easily,
and if this happens a lot of
time is lost clearing the hole.
Sixteen 501 b. bags of powder
were down and the ring on the
rod was a few inches below
ground-level when he started
dropping gelignite. Fifty were
down ; then he lowered the
primed fuse and dropped the
remaining 50, gently pressing
each one into position. With
five plugs to go the ring was
at the top of the hole, which
meant that the cavity was filled
with explosive and would be
a perfect shot. He poured
enough sand down to fill lh e
hole a foot, then filled the
remaining 13ft. with clay>
rammed hard every few inches.
The other two holes were
loaded with only half-a-bag of
powder difference in eacn,
tamped, and the three fuses
which had been cut to the sarn®
length tied together to make
one shot. He primed 16 fuses,
went down into the cut a nd
loaded the pops. No hole was
deeper than 3ft., some only
12in. He dropped-in fracteur
(Continued on page 43)


55SSSSS
WTi
. ; ..
aytof.. y €
-
wSsai£*&
■■■'• -i rr> :
Me
9<i
Whl
s
fe
dW
I
1
If"
pi
M&S,
SCO
fi l£/V
Ofo
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES, DISTILLED & BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd., Distillers, Perth, Scotland. Est. 1825
them were two surgeon-fish,
some bream, and a 51b.
salmon-cod.
“Hey, bro.,” Reg said, “We
going to try for that big cod
you were talking about?”
Joe turned his head slowly
until he faced the stern. He
tilted the neck of the rum
bottle to his mouth and
swallowed, then he stood up
and stepped along the bench.
He held the bottle out to his
brother.
“Might as well do it now,”
Joe said. “Here, there’s one
shot left. You finish it.”
“Thanks, bro. She’s been a
good day, today. Long time
we never been out fishing
together, eh?”
“Yeah, a long time.”
“Yeah, man. But it’s been
good today. And those sea-
eggs’ll taste good tonight, too.
We must have fifty or sixty.”
Reg stretched out his foot
and flipped over one of the
sea-urchins, then he drained
the rum-bottle and flung it over
the side. It flashed in the sun,
hit the water and came up
bobbing on the tide.
“Better get your line in,” Joe
said. “I’ll fix the plug, then
we move over to the hole.
Plenty water on the reef now.”
Joe ducked into the blanket-
ing heat of the little cabin. He
lifted the fibre mattress of the
port bunk and took out a flat
cigarette-tin and a coil of yellow
fuse.
The tin held six slim
detonators ; Joe took one out
of its nest of cotton-wool and
replaced the tin. He cut and
fitted a length of fuse into the
detonator, crimped the tin
tightly around the fuse with
his teeth and smeared the
junction with grease. From a
locker above the bunk, he took
three sticks of gelignite. He
opened the top of one, poked
a hole in the soft pink gelignite
and fitted the detonator into
the hole. When he had tied the
oily brown paper around the
fuse, he smeared more grease
over the string and paper. He
tied the sticks together, placed
them on the bunk and went
back to the cockpit.
Get the anchor up, Reg,”
he said. “I just start the
engine”.
J<JE stood at the wheel and
nosed the launch along the
§ e of the great coral mass
until they reached a certain
gap. He lowered the revs, and
put the gear-lever into neutral,
letting the tide swing them over
the reef. Under the keel, the
water was green-glass clear;
they could see the fat rocks on
the bottom, the honeycombed
coral and the sudden schools
of multicolored fish.
“Where’s the hole, Joe?”
Reg said. “So long since I
been out here, I forget the
reef a bit.”
“Over there. To the left and
down half a chain.”
“You sure no one can see
we’re dynamiting?”
“Too far out. No one can
see what we do.”
"Okay, bro. These days,
you're the boss when it comes
to fishing. I only hope I gaff
him first off, though, other-
wise the damn’ sharks’ll be
around. You know what
they’re like when you dyna-
mite. Come running from all
over and savage, too.”
“Yeah, I know. You
ready?”
“When you are, bro.”
Joe took his knife and split
the fuse for half-an-inch from
its tip. He struck a match
and held it to the fuse, which
spat at the flame, then he
threw the bomb out from the
launch. He waited at the wheel,
one big foot ready to push the
gear-lever, while Reg leant
out over the stern, bracing
himself with one hand and
holding the long-handled gaff
with the other.
Anna slid along the bench
until she was right behind Reg.
She set her feet solidly on a
clear patch of the deck, bend-
ing forward from the waist,
her arms dangling between her
legs.
The bomb went off, making
a hiccuping sound under the
water ; the surface above the
hole was suddenly ruffled and
a miniature waterspout jumped.
Joe pushed the launch ahead
until they were over the hole,
then let the engine idle. For
a long minute they saw
nothing, then fish began to
appear, dozens of fish ; some
floated up with white bellies
showing, others struggled in
eccentric circles just below the
surface, their swim-bladders
ruptured.
Reg reached out to gaff a
big cod ; simultaneously,
Anna grabbed his ankles, dug
her shoulder into his side, then
heaved and pushed. Reg made
a shrill, hollow noise that was
choked off as he splashed into
the sea behind the launch, his
arms and legs outstretched like
a man flying. He came to the
surface, his bald patch shining
in the sun and his eyes mad
with fear. He began threshing
towards the launch.
Anna crouched in the stern.
Her face was yellow, and pink
gums showed above her teeth
as she snarled over her
shoulder at Joe.
“Go, God, what you wait
for, you bloody fool? He
swim back. Go on, go.”
Reg touched the launch and
his fingers scrabbled up to
('Continued on page 45)
AN ANTHOLOGIST'S
LAMENT
(With apologies to John Skelton
and some others.)
Oh dear Lord ! our poor poets !
So many lovers fumbling,
Yearners and burners bungling
And homosexuals hogging
In thin-disguised bragging,
And virgins verging <
And urgers urging.
Those smell - of - steak - in -
passageway girls
And “realistic” churls
And after-Graves makers of
peace
With lumps of myths of Greece;
As if his goddess would
Through their thin blood
Bubble her good wine.
The whinge and whine
Of half-grown, half-baked
kids
Afraid of the skids . . .
Almost without belief
/ savor the relief
Of the occasional happy bed
And the sniffer of baker’s
bread.
They may not all have wings
Who sing Of wholesome things
But, oh dear Lord ! one rejoices
At their rare, grown-up voices.
Thank God for our few poets!
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
nTHE tax-reductions announced
-®~ in the speech introducing
the N.Z. Budget were fore-
shadowed by the Minister of
Finance, Mr. Nordmeyer,
during an Imprest Supply-
debate, when he said that the
Budget would provide for tax-
reductions “to the full extent
consistent with the economic
welfare of the country.”
In his economic survey for
1959, Mr. Nordmeyer said that
during the past 18 months
New Zealand had passed
through a recession of relatively
short duration but of greater
intensity than any experienced
since before World War 11.
Depressed conditions over-
seas resulted in a heavy reduc-
tion in export prices, which
fell by 23 per cent, between
mid-1957 and mid-1958, while
import prices fell only slightly.
The heavy fall in wool prices
was the largest single factor in
reducing N.Z.’s export earn-
ings, which were also seriously
affected, particularly during the
first half of 1958, by depressed
prices for butter and cheese.
Fortunately receipts for meat
held-up well, aided by the
development of a very favor-
able market for beef in the
United States.
The overall result was that
the benefit which might have
been expected to accrue from
increased export sales from
higher production and from
stocks was more than offset by r
the decline in prices.
With a growing population
leading to an expanding
demand for imported raw r
materials, capital - equipment
and consumer-goods, this static
export income posed problems
for N.Z. which seemed even
more difficult when there was
the prospect that export income
would actually decline. The
solution of these difficulties was
complicated by the pressure of
excess demand in the second
half of 1957 and the early
months of 1958.
Since the middle of 1958
there had been a substantial
improvement in export prices,
and, as the recovery in
industrial countries had gained
momentum, a continuation of
that improving trend could be
expected.
“With the return to more
normal conditions it would be
unwise to ignore the lessons of
the past two years,” said Mr.
Nordmeyer.
“They are, first, the necessity
to avoid inflation which
resulted in an excessive level
of imports. The consequent
depletion of our foreign-ex-
change reserves necessitated
the imposition of compre-
hensive controls over imports
and increased our vulnerability
to the fall in export prices.
Furthermore, the existence of
an inflationary situation would
make the relaxation of import-
controls more difficult.
“Secondly, the most serious
threat to employment in this
country is the possibility that
we could not afford to pay for
sufficient imports to keep
industry operating at a level
which provides full employ-
ment for the labor force. To
protect ourselves against
fluctuations in employment
due to shortage of imported
materials we must maintain
adequate exchange reserves.
“To the extent that we can
arrange overseas loans or
credits in times ol: adverse
trading conditions, the neces-
sity to retain a high level of
reserves is reduced. Too great
a reliance on such borrowing
is dangerous, however, because
it involves the element of risk
that credit may not be avail-
able at times when it is most
needed.
“The year ahead promises to
be of further economic
growth,” said Mr. Nordmeyer.
“Such growth cannot proceed
without the assistance of im-
ported capital-goods. The
foreign exchange to purchase
that equipment must eventu-
ally be earned by exports. To
increase export earnings we
must not only continue to
increase the production of our
export industries, but also
develop expanding markets in
countries overseas. Under the
trading conditions of the
modern world the achievement
of this objective will require
concerted effort by both
Government and industry.”
Uninformative Public
Accounts
/Criticism of the lack of in-
formation given to the
people in the public accounts
is contained in the annual
report of the Controller and
Auditor-General, Mr. C. J.
Atkin.
Last year’s increase in taxa-
tion drew attention to the
section of the accounts dealing
with tax-receipts, but the
relevant information was not
fully disclosed.
“It seems anomalous that
while eight pages of the
accounts are used to give
details in the Consolidated
Fund of departmental receipts
totalling £18,203,415, taxation
involving £205,574,025 is dis-
posed of in a few lines occupy-
ing one-third of a page,” said
Mr. Atkin.
Taxation receipts at
£205,574,025 showed an in-
crease of £10,874,025 over the
Budget estimate and an
advance over the previous year
of £46,837,307, according to
Mr. Atkin’s report.
The main increases over
1957-58 were: Customs-duties,
£8,049,657 ; beer - duty
£4,237,241 ; and income-tax
£31,618,725. Expenditure was
almost £3,000,000 below the
estimate, but at £226,888,223
was £33,152,663 higher than
for the previous year.
Examination of the public
accounts showed that the net
result was an increase of
£32,414,044, representing an
increase in cash of £15,418,858
and in investments of
£16,995,185, Mr. Atkin said.
It will be remembered that,
when he presented the public
accounts, the Minister of
Finance said that there was an
overall cash - surplus of
£15,400,000.
It seems strange—and wrong
—that the public should have
to wait for the Auditor-
General’s report to learn of the
additional £l7 million of in-
vestments.
Employment
At the end of May this year
more than 1500 New Zea-
landers were registered as un-
employed, compared with 600
in May, 1958.
The demand for labor
usually falls during the winter
months as activity in farming
and in allied processing-
industries slackens. With the
fall in farm-incomes there has
been a tendency to curtail farm-
maintenance and investment
expenditure, and this has
further reduced employment
opportunities during the off-
season.
The Government has stated
that it will accelerate essential
public works during the winter
to provide work for 1000 men.
It has also approached, to
date, two local bodies, in
Tauranga and Gisborne, with
the aim of providing employ-
ment for married men on a
subsidy basis.
Casein for Japan
N.Z. is now supplying the
greater part of Japan’s total
casein market.
Five years ago Japan was
taking only a few-hundred
tons a year, but in the season
which ends on July 31 it will
have taken 3500 tons, worth
more than £500,000.
New contracts for an even
greater amount in the season
beginning on August 1 were
negotiated by the general-
manager of the Dairy Products
Marketing Commission on a
recent visit to the Far East.
Meat
N.Z. also has great hopes of
the expanding Japanese meat
market.
Processing experiments with
N.Z. mutton began early this
year when one of N.Z.’s export
companies sent a free sample
of meat to Japan. About 700
tons of mutton have already
entered Japan this year and
been absorbed on the market,
It is s hoped that Japan will
take 3000 to 4000 tons next
year.
During the past four months,
Producer Meats (North Island),
Ltd., has sold 25,000 N.Z.
lamb-carcasses to American
housewives through a United
States chain-store.
Two other North Island
firms have sold a total of 5000
lambs through the same
channel.
It is believed that the suc-
cess of this venture could open
up the whole of the United
States market to N.Z. lamb.
Home-brew
N.Z.’s home - brewing
industry has received a great
stimulus as a result of the
doubling of the beer-duty last
year.
An estimated 6,000,000 to
9,000,000 gallons of home-brew
is now being made in N.Z.
annually, according to the
general-manager of New Zea-
land Breweries, B. T. O’Connell.
“Home-brewers last y° ar
bought 40 bales of hops,” h e
said. This year they had bought
800 bales.
One large company pro"
ducing bottle-tops estimated
that over the past year it had
supplied through unlicensed
sources sufficient seals f° r
three-million dozen bottles.
Working on two gallons 0
beer to the dozen, this
amounted to six - mil* l0 ®
gallons. Another company
producing the tops estimate
their sales through unlicense
sources as half that of the nr
company.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
At Caulfield
After the running of the
Grand National Hurdle at
Flemington a couple of weeks
ago Brian Smith contended
that his mount, Gay Ranick,
was going like a winner until
he made a mistake at the
hurdle six from home. In
the Leamington Hurdle at
Caulfield last Saturday Gay
Ranick showed that he had
taken no harm from his spill
by convincingly winning over
the 2 miles, 1 furlong and
65yds. Smith —almost needless
to say—rode a great race on
Gay Ranick, and he was suffi-
ciently impressed to take the
mount in the Australian Hurdle
next Saturday week. Last year
the Leamington proved a
pointer to the Australian
Hurdle, when Red Pampas won
the double, and the pattern
could be repeated this year. Gay
Ranick carried 10.0 last Satur-
day, and drops lib. in the big
Caulfield race.
It is not likely that last
Saturday’s Redleap Steeple will
give a lead to the Australian
Steeple. The field was not good
class, and the winner, Ful-
ham’s Hope, had not previously
shown any form of note over
fences. He had raced on both
days of the National meeting
ai Flemington for a fall in the
Kensington Steeple (won by
Irish Sun) and a poor tenth
behind Malatea in the Foot-
scray Steeple. Fulham’s Hope
is a six-year-old gelding by
Craigie from Thorntopper, and
is trained by his owner, W. J.
Rolfe. The gelding is in the
Australian Steeple with the
featherweight of 9.2, 31b. less
than he carried last Saturday
—but the opposition will be
stiffer.
• • • •
Most significant run at Caul-
field was Sir Blink’s first-up
third in the six-furlongs Kam-
brook Handicap. The sprinters
went too fast for him early,
but Sir Blink put-in telling
strides to be less than a length
behind the winner, Vogel, on
the fine. Last spring Sir
Blink's Caulfield Cup and
V.R.C. Derby proved him the
best colt in the land, but when
be reappeared in the autumn
he could not find his best form.
Saturday’s run suggests that he
will be as good as ever over
the spring campaign, and he
is sure to move up sharply on
the Cups charts. Trainer J.
Godby will not hurry his
preparation, and it may be
three or four weeks, before he
races again.
While Sir Blink’s run caught
the eye, the winner of the
Kambrook, Vogel, put up a
very interesting performance
also. The four - year - old
Sabaean gelding, too, was rac-
“Both you boys financial in the hospital and
medical funds ?”
ing first-up from a long spell
—his last run was in the
Futurity in February—and he
is bound to win a good race
or two during the spring.
Vogel, owned and trained in
the same interests as w.-f.-a.
star Lord, set a new mile
record (1.36 f) at Caulfield last
January, and later was placed
at w.f.a. behind his more
famous stablemate. He could
prove class enough to win one
of the shorter w.-f.-a. races
over the next couple of
months.
The V.A.T.C. received such
a response to the sj-furlongs
Turf Club Handicap for two-
year-olds that the race had to
be run in three divisions. The
winner of the first heat, Gay
Banner, who had not previ-
ously won a race, has a fasci-
nating mixture of speed and
stamina in his blood-lines. His
sire, the English horse Star
Spangled Banner, won the
Rugeley Stakes and two other
races over two miles, the Oak-
lands Plate over 13 furlongs,
and the Folkestone Handicap
over 15 furlongs, in addition
to several other distance-events.
Star Spangled Banner was by
Derby winner Blue Peter, while
his dam, Belle Etoile, has pro-
duced some fine stayers. On
the maternal side, however,
Gay Banner has inherited noth-
ing but speed. His dam, Gay
Queen, won the Newmarket in
1947, and she was by High
Title, who won the Oakleigh
Plate in 1942. In winning last
Saturday Gay Banner showed
the worth of the mixture by
mustering speed enough to be
well placed all through, and
courage to race away over the
last 100yds. It will be interest-
ing to see how he develops.
If ever a horse deserved suc-
cess it was Supreme Courage,
who took the second Turf
Club. He started from barrier
21, and that was the best he
had drawn in his last three
starts! His previous two runs
had produced close seconds,
and on Saturday the finish was
again tight, but this time
Supreme Courage got the deci-
sion by a head from Worthing.
The Woodruffe-Supreme Power
gelding has been a model of
consistency, with four wins
and three seconds from eight
starts, and he has earned a
spell.
Of the three heat-winners
of the Turf Club, the other,
Bosnia, was the most impres-
sive. For one thing, his time,
1.6 9/10, was easily the fastest
of the trio, and it was achieved
without the Rego-Border Lass
gelding having to do his best.
He coasted along in front to
win by five lengths pulling-up.
As was mentioned here after
his previous success a fort-
night ago, Bosnia had shown
good form in top-drawer com-
pany in the autumn, and he
will be quite at home with the
best of them during the spring.
• • • •
It should be worth remem-
bering Gold Rebel’s perform-
ance to win the mile Lillimur
Two-year-old. The Resurgent-
Fairene colt gave a couple of
good youngsters—Bob Right
and Sir Emblem —a start when
he missed the jump, and then,
after making-up his ground,
ran about in the straight be-
fore Jack Purtell got the colt’s
mind back on the job, to drive
him past his rivals close to
home. It was a first win for
Gold Rebel, but a success
that has been delayed only
because of the youngster’s
waywardness.
* * *
Weights are out for the
Australian Hurdle and Steeple
double. National winners Hill-
wood and Irish Sun have paid
a stiff price for their success,
with Hillwood up Ist. to 10.8
and Irish Sun up 151 b. to 11.1.
Fordell heads the Hurdle
weights with 11.9, and Pedro’s
Pride is nominal head of the
Steeple field with 12.8. How-
ever, the grand mare is amiss
and has already been scratched.
More’s the pity, she’s unlikely
to race again. This writer’s
early fancies are Gay Ranick,
well in with only 9.13, and
Irish Sun, despite his severe
impost.
* * *
The Melbourne Racing Club
gives some interesting details
of work completed and plans
afoot for its new course at
Sandown. So far, £400,000 has
been spent on laying the track,
drainage, fencing and general
preparatory work. It is planned
to spend a further £700,000
before the track opens for
racing, probably in 1961. Plans
have been approved for a
grandstand to accommodate
15,000. The stand will be
400yds. long, and provide a
standard of comfort which
club officials believe will be
as good as anything in the
world. There is no doubt that
the course will present flat-
racing at its best, but it seems
a pity there will be no steeple-
chase course at Sandown.


Sydney Horses
Owners of the speedy grey
two-year-old Martello Towers,
who seems to bound over the
turf, bought him privately as a
yearling for lOOOgns., and now
the colt’s five starts have
yielded three wins and a
second, and a feature of each
success has been strong back-
ing by the stable and the
public.
• • • •
Martello Towers was entered
for the Two-year-old Quality
Handicap at Rosehill on this
coming Saturday. He carried
9.2 last Saturday, and the
Quality conditions provide
for a maximum 9.5, but maybe
he will be kept for the more
important events of the near
future, including the £1550
Hobartville Stakes (seven
furlongs) at Warwick Farm on
August 22. Martello Towers is
by Gaekwar’s Pride (imp.)
from Nidhauli by Nizami (Fr.).
Carbon Copy is a member of
the family.
Port Kar, winner of the
Rosehill Second Two-year-old,
evidently isn’t a boy’s horse.
The lightly-framed gelding, one
of the smartest track-gallopers
at Rosebery, is generally ridden
in work by an apprentice, Ivan
Thompson (no relation to
Jack), but in his two wins
(Warwick Farm and Rosehill)
he has been piloted by Noel
McGrowdie, who got him away
smartly and, after being third
for home, he won easily. Cecil
Buckley, a racecourse farrier,
trains Port Kar for Mr. and
Mrs. J. Freeman, who paid
325gns. for the youngster at the
Rand wick yearling-sales last
year. Port Kar" is bred for
speed, being by Karendi (sprint
winner of £23,694 in stakes),
from Safe Port by Port Vista
(imp.), who also sired Gay
Vista, Gay Port and My
Peter. Gay Port, by the way,
looks ready for a first-up win.
Tranquilette’s latest win, in
the Rosehill Handicap,
followed a distant fourth to
Our Add at Rosehill a week
earlier. Tranquilette was
we ; ghted at 8.8 last Saturday,
but Newcastle apprentice C.
O’Neill was given the mount,
and the well-conditioned mare
had 8.1, a luxury weight for
such a smart winner.
• • • •
Tranquilette went kindly for
her youthful rider, whose ex-
cellent handling should secure
him more city engagements. At
Newcastle he is the leading
young horseman, with 23 sue-
cesses this season. O’Neill
didn’t get flustered in the
blanket-finish for the Rosehill
Handicap. He had the rails
running and defeated favorite
Caybros by a nose, with Gilt
Son a further nose away third.
Two races earlier O’Neill won
the First Parramatta Stakes on
the Newcastle-trained Wanton
Lass.
• • • •
Wanton Lass has won a
number of races at Newcastle
and provincial fixtures, where
she has shown abundant pace.
In the Rosehill sprint, after a
slightly delayed beginning, she
took the lead near the three-
furlongs and won in a canter.
It was her first city start. Like
Sun Idol, winner of the Second
Parramatta Stakes, Wanton
Lass is by Bob Cherry (imp.).
She cost owner J. Johnston
300gns. as a yearling, so she
has proved a Turf bargain. Her
dam, Gratia, is a half-sister to
Compound, whose wins in-
cluded Tatt.’s Tramway Handi-
cap and also the Lord Mayor’s
Cup at Rosehill. Gratia is by
Brueghel (It.) from Silvermere
by El Cacique (imp.). Former
speedster Civic Pride figures in
the pedigree.
Ken Ranger, former leader
of the Sydney paddock-ring,
hit his former colleagues
pretty solidly when his four-
year-old Sun Idol landed the
Second Parramatta Stakes
from the favorite, Kerrydale,
and outsider Tembu Lad.
Backed from 8 to 1 to second-
favoritism, Sun Idol started at
11 to 4, and bookmakers paid-
out one of the biggest lists of
winning bets on a restricted
event in months. Now a four-
year-old, Sun Idol hasn’t raced
much, but must have shown
trainer C. L. Sheil something
really worth while. Sun Idol’s
family-lines include Sylvandale
(V.R.C. and A.J.C. St. Legers
and the Australian Cup). His
dam, Misty Day (imp.), is by
Panorama from No Trace by
Mr. Jinks.
One of the easiest wins at
Rosehill was sprinter New
Stand’s in the main event, the
Winter Handicap, a £1250 race
worth an approximate £978 to
owners Bill Laforest and A. H.
Watson. The four-year-old
Newtown Wonder gelding has
won several events in three
seasons of racing, mostly in
Welter company. In Flying
Handicaps he has generally
failed to beat the stronger
opposition, but at Rosehill he
made them look second-rate,
going right away over the con-
cluding stages of the seven
furlongs for a convincing
three-lengths win. Consistent
Royal Feast ran second, and
in finishing third outsider Flag
Top indicated a return to best
form.
Though Rosehill Welter
winner Man of Iron won the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce last year,
and also the Q.T.C. Sires’
Produce, his form slipped so
much that his former owner
sold the gelding, who now is
raced by Mr. and Mrs. G.
Spies and is trained by J.
Henderson at Canterbury. It
was his first win for them, and
a marvellous improvement on
his previous run. Schumacher
rode him vigorously and very
well on Saturday.
An impressive winner at
Albion Park last Saturday was
West Glance in the Two-year-
old Handicap. He had several
lengths to spare, and could
soon repeat the performance,
He is by Passing Glance (imp.)
from Cat Cay, a sister to
Forge, a Doomben Cup win-
ner, and by Hebrus from
Levasker by Leverrier (imp.).
The colt comes from a good
winning family. Beau Groom,
easy winner of the First
Maiden, is by The Groom
(well known on Sydney
courses) from Pictorial, while
Clear Signal, who also had an
easy task in the Second
Maiden, is a three-year-old
gelding by Signalman (imp.)
from Bright Mark by Hall
Mark.
* * *
The resignation, on medical
advice, of Harry Tancred as
chairman of the Sydney Turf
Club doesn’t mean he will be
lost to racing-control; he will
continue as a member of the
board of directors. Appointed
vice-chairman in 1945, and
elected chairman in January,
1953, he has done a great job
for the S.T.C., and, in fact, for
racing generally. He was one
of the original directors
appointed under the Sydney
Turf Club Act. Bill Long-
worth has been appointed
chairman and N. E. Manion
vice-chairman. W. P. Keighery
is the new hon. treasurer.
* * *
Rosebery trainer Leo O’Sul-
livan sprang a newcomer on
punters at the latest Hawkes-
bury fixture, when Palomar
cleared-out with the First
Maiden Two-year-old for
colts and geldings, showing the


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorcf.
TO MERVYN ROBERT PAINE for-
merly of Bootawah in the State of New
South Wales Share Farmer. —TAKE
NOTICE that DOREEN GRETA PAINE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2288 of 1959 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the Second October 1959 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from EDGLEY, BROWN & SANDER-
SON, Solicitors, of 6 Wvnvard Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN, Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—■
NAME
ADDRESS
r, . ....... • » • •
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; } year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange IQ country cheques ,
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
typical Star Kingdom speed.
J. H. Wood and Tom Clune
race the youngster, who cost
them 1600gns. as a yearling at
the Randwick auction last year.
Smitten, dam of the Star King-
dom (imp.) speedster, is by
Marconigram (imp.) from Love
Light (imp.), and wasn’t raced.
O’Sullivan had trained Palomar
well, and, though few punters
knew anything about the first-
start winner, the bookmakers
had ideas that he would be well
fancied, and the opening price
was 6 to 4. In the absence
of big money Palomar drifted
sharply to a general 4 to 1,
and in places away from the
rails-operators to much longer
odds. Tom Hill got him going
quickly and the rest was easy,
though the youngster was tiring
at the finish.
* * *
Oliver Triggs (who won two
Moonee Valley Cups with Gill-
town, in 1939 and 1940, when
that good winner was trained
by Leo O’Sullivan) bred
Maraumar, dam of Old Bagh-
dad, winner of the Hawkesbury
Club’s Second Maiden Two-
year-old for colts and geldings.
The youngster-(trained by Bill
Kelso) is by a little-known
English sire, Dilawarji, who is
by Dastur from Queen of
Baghdad.
« h *
Ofher Sports
At Dunedin, the Enzedders
defeated the British Isles 18-17
in the first Rugby Union Test.
The Lions can be accounted
unlucky, as their speedy backs
scored four tries, while N.Z.
did not cross their line. All
N.Z.’s points came from six
penalty-goals kicked by big
full-back Don Clarke, who
landed goal after goal in Aus-
tralia on the All Blacks’ 1957
tour. The Lions, after being
down 0-6, rallied to put on
two good tries just before half-
time, in both of which the
N.Z. defence was left standing,
to lead 9-6 at half-time and
to look assured of victory.
•f * •
Sydney Rugby Union’s
match of the day, a vigorous,
exciting game, was won by
Manly, which narrowly beat
Gordon 8-6. Co-leader Rand-
wick comfortably mastered
bottom - of - the - table team
Drummoyne 12-3, all points'
coming from tries ; in a clash
probably vital to both teams
(which, as a result, are now
level on points just behind
fourth team, Gordon), North
defeated, and thus caught up
with, University, 22-11 ; St.
George, now lying third, just
got up against East 22-17 ; and
Eastwood beat Parramatta
14-6.
* * *
Main interest in Saturday’s
last round of Sydney Rugby
League was to see whether
North or Newtown would
qualify to play-off in the semi-
finals with St. George, West
and Manly. It was Newtown
—though they only just got.
there. Canterbury led 8-4 as
the bell rang; but, from a
tap-penalty awarded Newtown,
winger Considine (who was to
score all Newtown’s points)
went over in the corner, and,
with everything depending on
the kick, converted his try.
West eliminated North 27-15,
while South, which considered
that it, too, had a chance to
qualify if it won and both
Newtown and North were
beaten, duly beat Balmain (of
course, unavailingly) 27-19.
Though nothing in particular
seemed to hinge on the result,
the match of the day, in which
St. George beat Manly 25-20,
was played as if it were the
grand-final; it was a real
thriller. The two stars of the
game were the rival Test
second-row forwards, Provan
and Mossop. At half-time St.
George led 16-15, and the
result was in doubt almost to
the end ; but this was to an
extent due to the failure of
Saints’ goalkicker, Bath, who
landed only two (both from
right in front) from 10
attempts.
* * *
There was no change in the
V.F.L. “four” after Saturday’s
round, even though two of the
four, Carlton and South, were
beaten ; St. Kilda has caught
up to South on match-points
but stays just outside the four,
while North has overhauled
Carlton on match-points. (All
the teams, of course, were
without stars over in Adelaide
with the Victorian side which
overwhelmed S.A. 21.25-11.7.)
There were some interesting
games. Collingwood kept its
hopes alive with a good 40-
point “away” win over South,
12.13- ; in the first round
South had defeated Colling-
wood, at Collingwood, by 41
points (14.17-7.18). Essendon,
sure in attack and with perfect
teamwork, also kept its spirits
and hopes up by smashing
Carlton, 15.10-7.18. In a drab
game in which both teams
kicked badly, Fitzroy probably
ended any chance Hawthorn
did have, 8.19-8.13. St. Kilda
had a slight edge on Footscray,
12.14- North held off a
strongly-finishing Geelong,
11.10-8.15 ; North full-forward
Schofield kicked six goals.
Melbourne, now one win clear
on top of the table, coasted in
against Richmond, 13.10-7.9.
* * *
Sydney Soccer Federation’s
14-team competition has a sort
of double-barrelled interest —
at the top end of the table,
which teams will qualify for
the semi-finals, at the other end
which three teams will be rele-
gated to second division. (Plans
are that next year’s competition
will consist of 12 teams, with
the 1959 second - division
winner promoted.) In weekend
games with an important bear-
ing on either struggle, or both,
Bankstown, which has had a
lot of bad luck one way and
another this year, now looks
certain to be relegated follow-
ing its 2-1 defeat by Hakoah,
which should be able to hold
on to fourth place (after
Prague, Apia and Corrimal).
Sydney Austral, beaten by
Prague 2-1 on Sunday, lies
equal fifth on points with
Gladesville, which played a
scoreless draw with Balgownie
on Saturday. Balgownie, with
Bankstown and Concord, seems
the likely third team to be
relegated, following its 2-1
defeat by Canterbury on Sun-
day and fourth-last team Buda-
pest’s 3-0 defeat of Auburn —
its second defeat over the week-
end. On Saturday Auburn was
somewhat unluckily beaten 5-4
by Apia, and now seems to
have little chance to qualify for
the semis.
* * *
Sporting dragnet: Australian
racing driver Jack Brabham,
doing well overseas, won the
British Grand Prix at Aintree,
covering the 225 miles in his
Cooper Climax at just under
90 m.p.h. Britain’s Stirling
Moss, in a 8.R.M., was second,
and New Zealander Bruce Mc-
Laren third....ln Melbourne,
English lightweight Johnny
Butterworth had a close points
win over former Australian
lightweight champion George
Bracken in a 12-rounder; it
was Bracken’s first fight since
outpointing Israeli boxer David
Oved in March. In Brisbane
Gary Cowburn won the
Queensland lightweight title
when Hungarian-born south-
paw George Krall could not
continue after the ninth....
Peter Langham, 24, from up
Richmond River way, won his
first major golf-title by bagging
the N.S.W. amateur title, beat-
ing Keith Pix, three times
previous winner of the title,
3 and 2 in the final.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE DISPUTED CITY
Tn the British monthly “The
Contemporary Rev i e w,”
William Frank takes a look at
the city whose fate the Foreign
Ministers have been discussing
in Geneva:
“The city centre of West
Berlin has an air of somewhat
frenzied or hysterical activity
both by day and night. There
are fine, well-stocked shops in
the Kantstrasse, Kurfursten-
damm and other roads more-
or-less radiating from the now
famous ruined church. The
larger stores and other modern
buildings are a monument not
only to the effort aided by the
West since the war towards
reconstruction but also to the
confidence of investors since
1949 in the security of the
city. Over the whole area
blocks of flats are rising at a
great rate, but it is easy to
visualise the overcrowding
which still prevails in this
resort for refugees.
“To some extent this is a
faqade, for outside ‘the West
End’ the population seems
drab, strained and physically
tired. War-time bombing
followed by a cold war and
the threat of another oppres-
sive regime has left its legacy
of prematurely aged Berliners.
At night, however, the city has
a new, but far from fresh, and
not so secret face—a range of
night-clubs, bars and striptease
shows, orthodox and other-
wise, crude and sophisticated,
which has the advantage for its
clients, serious or casual, of
being pretty well concentrated
geographically. The effect,
though this is easily exag-
gerated, is of a ‘close to the
front-line’ atmosphere with all
its implications.
“Whatever conclusions are
reached about the state of
affairs in West Berlin, there is
no doubt that it is alive,
vigorous and not resigned. By
contrast, except apparently on
special State occasions, the
East sector is a ghost-city,
largely deserted and dilapi-
dated. Apart from the majestic
—though to Western eyes un-
con genial —. Soviet War
Memorial in Treptow Park,
there is little in this part of
the city to leave an impression
of purpose or determination.
It is true that there is Stalinailee
with its rather heavy and
reputedly ramshackle facade,
and a solitary statue of Stalin.
It is hard to tell whether the
comparative decrepitude of
Leninallee has any significance,
and over all there has been
much less effort than one might
have expected to conceal the
rubble and the ruin.
“Occasionally new blocks of
— N.Y. “Herald-Tribune.”
ALL THE OLD SHOES WEREN’T EMPTY.
apartments, made of evidently
secondhand material, can be
seen under construction, but
no attempt has been made to
restore, even in contemporary
utilitarian style, the glories of
Unter den Linden. Even the
Opera House, though much
frequented, has still a battered
front, and students doing part-
time compulsory labor on an
area opposite the indestructible
bunker site seemed to be
making a reluctant contribu-
tion to the revival of their half
of the city. In this context it
was strange to see coach-loads :
of camera-laden American
tourists.
“To leave again by the
Brandenburger Tor and see
first of all the neat Russian
memorial and its well-turned-
out Soviet soldiery, and then
to re-enter the clamorous
‘hurly-burly’ of West Berlin
completes a strange cycle of
contrast and experience. Apart
from political curiosity, cheap
(partly because of the ex-
change - rate) gramophone-
records, flowers and fruit are
the only incentives to visit East
Berlin. To Western demo-
crats, and no doubt to many
of its own inhabitants, it seems
a sinister place; an impres-
sion which is reinforced not
so much by the presence of
Russian soldiers as by the
übiquity of individually
maleyolent East German police.
“Though it is easy to appre-
ciate the embarrassment caused
by the existence of West Berlin,
and by the comparison which it
invites with the other half of
the city, to the East German
regime the failure to rise to
the challenge thus created is in
some respects difficult to com-
prehend.
“West Berlin is indeed an
island within the Eastern Zone
—an island with effective free
newspapers and radio-stations
with which to harass the un-
stable Democratic Republic.
There can be no surprise that
since 1948 3,000,000 people
have left East Germany for
the West. Over the period of
10 years the figure for refugees
into West Berlin has run at
anything between 100 and 1000
per day. At present 250 to 300
is the average figure, and over
the last year 50 per cent, of
these have been under the age
of 25.
“This is an indication of the
failure of the regime to mould
a new and docile generation —-
a task which may well seem
impossible to its leaders when
it reflects on the defection in
recent months of 3000 school-
teachers, 1000 doctors and
about 200 university lecturers.
This threat of intellectual ruin
is obviously a factor in the
revival from time to time of
the proposal to close more
effectively the border between
the sectors of Berlin —not only
by road but also on the Ü-
bahn and the S-bahn.
“West Berlin has steadily : n
the last eight years reduced its
dependence economically on
external aid, and at the same
time enhanced its position as a
symbol of the right of peoples
to determine their own
future. There is evidence that
the Berliners have attracted in
this way the sympathy of
some of the uncommitted
nations of the world, as well as
giving hope to unreconciled
East Germans and perhaps to
the neighboring Polish and
Czech people.
“To judge from newspaper
reports, those Germans in the
best position to assess the
prospects, notably Herr Willi
Brandt, Chief Burgomaster of
West Berlin, see the freedom
of the city in terms of the con-
tinued presence of Allied
forces and inseparable from
the German problem as a
whole. Inside Berlin itself their
interpretation of the meaning
of any proposition to demili-
tarise the city assumes an over-
whelming validity: after all,
while the nearest point in the
Western Zone is at Helmstedt
120 miles away, the Eastern
Zone, in which there are
reported to be up to 22
Russian divisions, begins at the
city boundary. Such facts are
comprehensible from afar, but
vastly more meaningful even to
the transient visitor on the
spot.”
On this subject of Allied
forces in Berlin, Air-Marshal
Sir Gerald Gibbs, alarmed by
a report in London “Sunday
Times” that the Western
Foreign Ministers had at one
point gone so far as to con-
sider the possibility of cutting
the number of Allied troops
from 10,000 to 5000, wrote,
in a letter to the same paper:
“Few people seem to realise
the very considerable size of
the area of West Berlin and


,3t
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
ALL MALE
BRITISH SUBJECTS and NEW AUSTRALIANS
OF THE CLASSES DESCRIBED BELOW WHO ARE
ORDINARILY RESIDENT IN AUSTRALIA
MUST REGISTER
Between 21st July, 1959 and 4th August, 1959
unless exempt from liability to do so.
BRITISH SUBJECTS
(a) who attain the age of 18 years between 1st July, 1959 and
31st December, 1959 (inclusive).
(b) who, being in Australia on 21st July, 1958, but not then being
British subjects, attained the age of 18 years between 1st
July, 1958 and 31st December, 1958 (inclusive).
NEW AUSTRALIANS
(NOT BEING BRITISH SUBJECTS)
who attained the age of 18 years between 1st July, 1958 and
31st December, 1958 (inclusive) and who were in Australia on
21st July, 1958.
A person who intends to make his home in Australia is regarded as ordinarily
resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival. A person who is absent
from Australia during the period within which he is required to register must
register within 14 days after his return.
EXEMPTIONS:
The ONLY persons exempt from the liability to register are certain diplomatic
personnel, aboriginal natives of Australia, and full-time serving members of the
Permanent Defence Forces. All others in the above age groups must register.
HOW TO REGISTER:
Registration forms may be obtained from Post Offices and District Employment
Offices of the Department of Labour and National Service. Detailed instructions
are given in these forms.
WHEN TO REGISTER:
Registration forms must be completed and forwarded to the Registrar for National
Service by 4th August, 1959, even though the person required to register may
not actually turn 18 until after that date.
BALLOT:
A Ballot will be held in September to select those registrants who are to be
considered for call-up. A person who does not register by 4th August may lose
his right to take part in the ballot and may be called up for training regardless
of the ballot result.
FAILURE TO REGISTER:
A person required to register who fails to do so is liable to a minimum penalty
of £10.
NSR12/93/79
the huge task of effectively pre-
serving its integrity against
attempts at encroachment.
West Berlin is not only a part
of a great city, it includes a
large area approaching the
size of Surrey, with extensive
lakes and forests —and its
perimeter is about 100 miles
in length.
“As a small example of the
problem that has to be tackled,
on a visit to Berlin last month
I went with a patrol into one
isolated frontier area, where
British military police now visit
a certain farming family
several times during each 24-
hours day and night to
keep-up their morale against
Communist pressure and to
prevent repetition of attempts
at penetration which have been
made.
“In another area, on one
occasion, the immediate use
of a battalion and the threat
of force were necessary’ to
convince Russian infiltrators
of the wisdom of withdrawal.
A total of 10,000 men of
American, British and French
forces is already very small for
such responsibilities. A reduc-
tion of this figure in return for
worthless Russian and East
German promises would be
both stupid and dangerous.”
Russia on Display
T'wo comments on the Soviet
Exhibition of Science,
Technology and Culture at
New York’s Coliseum":
Alistair Cooke, New York
correspondent of the “Man-
chester Guardian”: “Nothing
that has been seen here before
•—at the New York World Fair
of 1939 —or at the Brussels
Fair last year, can begin to
compare with this composite
picture of the Soviet Union as
a working-class heaven, a con-
tinent of inventive, free peoples
living in the throb and glitter
of atomic factories, taking
their leisure in sparkling auto-
mobiles along splendid boule-
vards, exercising in sport-
stadiums that make the White
City look like a coal-tip,
rescued from feudal poverty by
vast housing-projects, taking
their ease in little, clean and
commendably modern apart-
ments ; and, when old age
comes on, stealing another
healthy decade more by the
grace of brilliant surgeons,
glistening operating - theatres
and Black Sea sanitaria
modelled after Jones Beach.
“We recognise the human
scale only in the stuffy furnish-
ings of the model flats, and in
the appalling textiles the
women are supposed to wear.
“A 'New York Times’ man
at our elbow, who had lived two
years in the worker’s paradise,
made a few quiet points.
a “The exhibition, he said,
‘projects a glistening Soviet
future, but strains the
facts... .The constructions, the
medical exhibits, the products
and models are prototypes, but
they give a distinct surprise to
someone who works and
travels in the Soviet Union.’
The model airport, he said, is
pretty, but does not exist. The
big Zil car fatter and
chromier than a Cadillac—is
reserved for Government
officials who rate a chauffeur,
“The tinned fish and
groceries are ‘available,’ but
only after ‘queues and monlh-


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
long waiting-lists.’ The model
apartments, he said, are exactly
that. Most Russians in cities
‘live in communal apartments,
four and more to a room,
sharing one kitchen and one
bathroom.’ Many a Russian,
he concluded, would ‘like to
come to New York to see how
he lives.’
“But a Russian can dream,
can’t he? And if these are
only visions they are of a sort
first to alarm, then to humble,
the American visitor who was
cocksure only two years ago
that the Russians not only
lacked divided highways,
modern kitchens, ballistic
missiles and transistor-radios
but wouldn’t know where to
find the blueprints.
“They have found them.
If this exhibition does nothing
else, it will, by projecting a
modern myth, violently dispose
of the one that many Ameri-
cans still cherish: that Rus-
sians are barefoot peasants in
slave-camps just about to dis-
cover the wheel.”
* * *
“New York Times ” edi-
torial : “It would be less than
candid not to admit that the
warmth of the welcome which
informed Americans are offer-
ing the Soviet exhibition here
is less than originally hoped.
The reason is simply that the
spirit in which the exchange
of expositions was originally
agreed upon has been crudely
and deliberately violated by
the Soviet press.
“The widespread Soviet
press-campaign to picture the
United States exclusively in
terms of mass unemployment,
starvation, racial injustice and
the like is transparently an
effort to precondition the
Soviet people to doubt the
truth of what they will see at
next month’s United States fair
in Moscow. We can only
wonder why the Soviet regime
feels so insecure as to need
such gross distortion.
“We should not follow the
example of the Soviet press.
The Soviet Union has made
substantial progress, and many
of its accomplishments, par-
ticularly in technical fields,
that will be shown at the
Coliseum are undoubtedly real.
The Soviet Union is today a
modern industrial Power
whose competitive prowess we
would be unwise to dismiss.
But for a balanced view of
the Soviet Union we need to
bear in mind two facets of
that country which will be
conspicuously missing from
the Coliseum show.
“One is the enormity of the
cost the Soviet people had to
pay under Stalin, a cost mea-
surable in lives lost, freedom
destroyed and innocent people
condemned to prison and slave-
labor. The second facet is
simply that the Soviet standard
of living is still far below that
of the United States and Wes-
tern Europe. Put another way,
the sputniks being featured at
“I’D NEVER ’AVE USED IT, YER HONOR—IT WAS JUST
ME ULTIMATE DETERRENT.”
the Coliseum are not matched
by any corresponding abund-
ance of housing, food, cloth-
ing, automobiles, refrigerators
and the like for the Soviet
masses.”
Baltic Traveller
Tn an article in London “Daily
Telegraph,” Gordon Shep-
herd notes that Mr. Khrush-
chev, in his summer travels,
appears to be “using the
flanks of Europe to reinforce
Russian pressure which pivots
around Berlin in the centre”:
“His recent visit to Albania
was a bid to turn the warm
Adriatic into a Soviet-style ‘sea
of peace’. His forthcoming
[August] tour of Scandinavia
is designed to perform the
same service for the chillier
Baltic.
“The aims of both trips are
the same: to weaken Nato
loyalties and links ; to prevent,
postpone or reduce Western
atomic armament in the area
concerned ; and to prepare for
the eventual extension of Soviet
influence into the military
vacuum thus created. He talks
of peace, and means peaceful
penetration.
“His prospects appear rosier
in the extreme north than in
the extreme south. In contrast
to Albania’s shaky little
window on the Adriatic, Russia
controls the whole of the
Baltic coastline from Lenin-
grad to the Bay of Luebeck.
Denmark and Norway, Scan-
dinavia’s two Nato members,
have not yet taken the plunge
on rocket-bases like Greece
and Italy, their counterparts
of the southern flank.
“Finally, northern Europe
offers a broader neutral plat-
form from which Mr. Khrush-
chev might operate. In the
Balkans he has only Yugo-
slavia, who is suspect in the
West because she is Com-
munist and in the East because
she is heretical. But in the
Baltic he has two highly
respected ‘neutrals,’ Sweden
and Finland, the second of
which is anyway virtually in-
capable of pursuing any
foreign policy directed against
him.
“Mr. Khrushchev may well
be hoping that, with skill, luck
and patience, he can use them
to wean Denmark and Norway
from their Nato sympathies
and thus prepare for the
sterilisation of the whole
Baltic area. This hope would
explain, for example, why
Russia has shown such
generosity towards Finland’s
increasing ties with the pro-
Western Nordic Union.”
Speculating on the amount
of support Khrushchev is
likely to get from the Swedish
and Finnish Governments, the
“Manchester Guardian” notes
that in Finland “the present
minority Government, com-
posed of members of the
President’s Agrarian party, is
generally expected to fall in the
autumn when the Deputies
return refreshed from their
holidays.
“An influential group of
Agrarians would like to renew
their coalition with the
majority Social Democrats, but
Mr. Khrushchev, in his speech
at Riga last month, warned
Finland once more against
‘certain forces there, grouped
around Tanner, which want to
turn Flinland’s policy in
another direction.’ (This was
not interference, he added, but
merely evidence of his concern
for good relations.) There is
no sign that Mr. Tanner or his
Social Democratic colleagues
have any wish to change Fin-
land’s policy of neutrality.
“Mr. Khrushchev’s keynote-
speech of his tour of the Scandi-
navian countries will probably
be made in Finland. Fie will
no doubt repeat his proposal
to make the Baltic a ‘sea of
peace’ from which all outside
influences would be excluded —
so that Russia would remain
in sole control.
“If Denmark and Norway
cannot be persuaded to leave
Nato (as Mr. Mikoyan tried [to
persuade them] to do on his
way back from America earlier
this year), Russia will try to
hamper their military arrange-
ments, so as to reduce their
usefulness in the alliance.
“That line of attack has
already been anticipated by the
Swedish Foreign Minister, who
[has] said that his country
would continue to assert the
freedom of the Baltic, and that
the cause of peace could not be
advanced by ‘neutralising’ its
waters and giving exclusive
control to ‘a certain State or
a group of States.’
“A potentially more
dangerous line would have been
if Mr. Khrushchev had
attempted to deck-out Finland
as a model protectorate, so as
to impress Norway and Den-
mark with the benefits of
neutrality and also keep
Sweden happy. But that is a
method which fortunately,
perhaps—is out of keeping with
Mr. Khrushchev’s political
character.”


QUICK RELIEF
from
ARTHRITIS
GOUT SCIATICA
' LUMBAGO
RHEUMATISM
with
COLCHISONE
Obtain almost immediate
relief from the pain of swollen
joints, fingers, toes, wrists,
ankles, knees and elbows which
won’t respond to ordinary
treatment.
Colchisone pale blue English
pills are the latest and best
treatment for all these troubles
which generally originate from
the same cause. Colchisone is
the only treatment containing
Colchicum, Guiacol and Apium
blended in such a way that it
is almost instantly effective
and guaranteed harmless. If
you are a sufferer start the
treatment to-day. Get COL-
CHISONE from your chemist.
Large economy size 30/-,
usually sufficient for severe
cases. Small size 17/6. Diet
chart with each bottle, a very
valuable food list. If unob-
tainable from your chemist
write to
CHARLES AGENCIES
(AUST.), 230 Commonwealth
Street, Sydney.
according to depth, primer on
top and tamped with clay.
And now he was ready to
fire. He waved his hand to the
compressor - driver and the
rattle of the jackhammers in
the other cut ceased. The
ganger nodded, and he turned
to the men below: “Righto
mates. Fire on.”
Tools were taken out and
the men followed the lorries,
laughing and joking, glad of
the ten minutes’ respite from
the toil and heat of the cutting.
As the cutting ran beside a
road, the powder-monkey sent
a man with a red flag each way.
■ftJow he stood alone with
over a ton of explosive
under his feet. He had his
shelter picked-out, a big box-
tree 150yds. in front of the
cutting.
This, as he well knew, was
not in accordance with strict
safety-rules. As all explosives
go to the point of least resist-
ance he knew most of the rock
would be thrown in his direc-
tion. The safest place is behind
the shots. But he wanted to
be where he could see as well
as hear the shots and be sure
all had fired. There was a
small concrete culvert in the
fill, but being barely 50yds.
from the face he knew it
would be covered by tons of
spoil, so dismissed it from his
thoughts.
The flagmen reached their
positions and waved, the
ganger waved and disappeared
from view, and the moment
had arrived. The powder-
monkey looked round once
more, lit an igniter and
touched it to the three fuses
tied together. They fizzed at
once, spitting out jets of flame
and smoke. He roared “Fire
on,” went down into the cut
and, counting carefully, lit the
pops.
A glance showed them all
spitting and he ran steadily to
the tree. It was already occu-
pied by two of the men, Jimmy
and Wally. There was plenty
of room for the three. Jimmy
asked “How many?”
“Sixteen pops,” said the
powder-monkey, “The three
big ones will go together.”
The pops had been timed to
fire at five-second intervals. He
saw and heard the first, the
second and third.
The next sound he heard was
a confused murmuring,
then: “Is he dead?”
A voice answered “No.”
His head was hurting him,
and he felt annoyed about it.
He spoke, and was surprised
to hear his own voice: “Blast
those bloody fuses. I never
did like them.”
This brought a ripple of
relieved laughter and the man
bandaging his head chuckled
“There you are. What did I
tell you? You couldn’t kill
this old bastard with an axe.”
He passed-out again, and
woke in the hospital. A nurse
was washing him. All over.
She worked calmly and im-
personally, as though he were
a baby. He couldn’t resist
flinching in embarrassment.
“Foe smashed-up three motor-bikes and a. car, and
now I'd like to 'ave a go at the 'planes."
and she looked in his face and
smiled.
To cover his confusion he
asked, “Am I hurt bad?”
She shook her head. “A
slight fracture of the skull. Be
a good boy and keep nice and
quiet and you’ll be up in a
week.”
His first visitor was Col, one
of the flagmen who had been
in a position to see all that
happened, and told the story:
“I was watching the pops
go and just as the third went
you ran from behind the tree,
fell down like a shot rabbit,
rolled over a few times, got
up and ran like a scalded cat
into the cutting, with Jimmy
and Wally charging after you.
They caught you right at the
toe. Dunno why you all
weren’t skittled with the pops
pelting stone at you all the
time. Every time one went I’d
lose sight of you in the dust
and smoke and reckon you’d
had it.”
“What about the big shdts?”
the powder-monkey asked.
“They were timed to fire close
to the pops.”
“Oh, yes,” Col said, “they
went off all right. Bloody
good shots too, over five-
hundred yards of stone, accord-
ing to the engineer. But the
boys got you as far as the
culvert and dived-in just in
time. We were twenty minutes
digging you out.” He was silent
for a while then went on:
“Jimmy and Wally never got
a scratch. Pretty game blokes,
I reckon. Don't think I’d have
had the guts to go after you
like they did.”
The powder-monkey laughed
softly: “I think you would
Jiave done as they did, Col.”
Col grinned and shook his
head. “Bull, I ain’t the stuff
heroes are made of.’ He dug
in a pocket and brought out a
stone about the size of an egg.
There was blood and hair on
it. “This is what hit you, so
I thought you might like to
have it as a souvenir.”
The. powder-monkey shud-
dered. “Take it to hell out of
here. Bury it somewhere. 1
can do all the remembering
I want without that damn’
thing.”
Timmy and Wally came to see
** him. Usually confident,
cocky young men, they were
ill-at-ease, and sat twisting
their hats and shuffling their
feet, talking about anything
except the accident.
He didn’t try to thank them.
He knew they wouldn’t like it.
But he remarked, casually,
“When I get out of this joint
I’ll shout you blokes a couple
of beers.”
Wally jeered: “What a
generous old cow! Listen,
mate, if you don’t shout four
beers each, the next time you
get into trouble you can bloody
well get out of it yourself.
And that’s dinkum.”
The tension was eased and
they talked freely but insisted
the affair was very humorous
and scoffed when he sug-
gested that they had been in
danger of losing their lives.
They left after advising him
to behave and not to try any
nonsense with the nurses.
He lay wondering what had
driven the two boys to follow
him into the cutting against
the barrage of stone the explod-
ing gelignite was throwing at
them, knowing that in less
than a minute the big shots
would fire and bury them
under hundreds of tons of
rock and mullock. “Pretty
game blokes,” Col had said.
He knew it was something
more than courage.
The nurse was tucking him
in for the night when it came
to him.
“Mates” he said softly.
“That’s it. Mates of mine.”
The nurse looked at him and
asked “What did you say?”
But he was asleep.


family at the same time next
day.
y In fact, the ha-ha bird is
pretty family-minded. Saw
him out on the sun-deck one
day looking like a drowned
rat. He’d obviously been in
the drink by some mischance,
and, until the sun dried him
out, was too sodden for action.
But his missus was right there
beside him with a large, live,
green grasshopper in her beak.
Beak to beak the pair waited
for the right instant. Then in
a flash the transfer was
accomplished and the ’hopper
was kicking in Dad’s beak. It
was not only feeding the in-
capacitated fellow, but avoid-
ing the faux pas of feeding
him something dead. Quelle
delicatesse !
IT" new an old chap who lived
in a bushy part of the
foreshores of Moreton Bay
(Q.). In the late afternoon he’d
stand on his veranda and treat
the surrounding scrub to a
long, low whistle. Within
about half - a - minute the
butcher-birds would arrive and
perch in the nearest trees.
The old chap would throw a
small bit of meat up in the
air towards one bird. This
bird —and this bird only—
would dive, sometimes twisting
violently to keep the meat in
sight, and snap it up before
it hit the ground.
Each bird in turn went
through the same performance.
The old chap refused my
request to throw the - meat
equidistant between two birds.
“They’d be confused,” he said.
“They wouldn’t know what to
do.”
I asked why the butcher-
birds made a point of catching
the meat in the air. He indi-
cated some bantam hens pick-
ing about on the small lawn.
“They used to get it as soon
as it hit the ground, so the
butcher-birds learned to catch
it in the air.”
"Cor sheer clowning you could
hardly beat a troupe of
soldier-birds. We used to have
a concrete bird-bath in our
backyard, raised a foot or so
above ground-level. One of the
gang was disporting himself in
the bath while his mates
perched in a small tree along-
side waiting their turn.
The tabby tomcat crept
closer and closer while the
soldier-birds in the tree, con-
trary to their usual custom,
affected to take little notice of
him. Finally Tom sprang —
grey-blurred lightning. Even
quicker was a shrill, concerted
screech from the tree. A wet
little bird whizzed chirruping
to safety, and a wetter, wiser
tomcat hauled himself dis-
gustedly out of the bird-bath.
A broadside of merciless bar-
racking shamed him from the
scene.
In the same backyard the
soldier-bird team objected to a
kooka’s presence on a low
branch of a gum. They lined-
up on a branch directly above
him and dived one behind the
other like a gaggle of Stukas.
Kooka simply cocked an eye
aloft and snapped his big beak
as each soldier-bird flashed
past within an inch of him.
The manoeuvre was repeated
until kooka repaired to another
tree free from distractions.
The soldier-birds were satisfied.
For effrontery in attacking
anything irrespective of size,
of course, the half-pint peewee
holds the palm. He’ll harass
and hunt-off anything from a
crow to a wedgetail eagle.
He’ll even attack himself
mirrored in a window-pane.
"VTaralla Bay, on Sydney’s
A Parramatta River, has
about as' dense a seagull popu-
lation as any spot I’ve seen.
In screeching thousands they
feed from a stormwater-
channel outlet, on schools of
small mullet and on tons of
scraps from the huge Repatria-
tion Hospital on the shore.
About three years ago
droughts drove birds from far
inland to find fresh feeding-
grounds. One afternoon three
or four duck skimmed quickly
round the bay a few times,
giving it the once-over, and
departed. Next afternoon
about a dozen duck alighted
near the mangroves with only
token opposition from the
gulls, and stayed put. All the
following day great numbers
of duck bored-in regardless of
the now frenzied and vocifer-
ous efforts of the gulls to scare
them off. The ducks’ swift,
silent and tricky flight carried
them through the wheeling,
screaming hordes that rose to
oppose them. We in a nearby
hospital-ward reckoned by sun-
down that there were about a
thousand duck floating serenely
over near the mangroves, on
the opposite side of the little
bay. As the light faded it
simply seemed that the water
was stained a brownish color
in large, drifting patches.
After a couple of days the
gulls accepted the situation.
Perhaps they’d screamed them-
selves hoarse. Now the
intruders had to become
adapted to saltwater-feeding.
It became a common thing to
see several duck in Indian-file
swimming behind a foraging
gull. If the gull stopped to
gobble at some trash floating
in shallows the duck followed
suit. Soon the newcomers got
to know all the best places and
were independent.
Close in the wake of the
pioneer ducks came ibis and
cranes to Yaralla Bay. In the
big hospital practically all
patients and staff with a view
of the bay became avid bird-
watchers. It gets you in.
A/Tany birds are excellent
mimics, but here's a true
case of man-bites-dog. This
piece is being written in a
bushy outer-Sydney suburb
where bird-life is varied and
abundant. Next-door is a
crawling infant who has
reached the “Mum-mum-
mum” and “Dad-dad-dad-dad”
stage. Some tree-borne wild-
fowl has been giving forth a
loud, harsh “Kark-kark-kark-
kark” every day.
This morning when the bird
paused for breath Junior next-
door carried on with a very
creditable “Kark - kark - kark-
kark” of his own. I voiced
my surprise to his mother.
“Oh, yes,” she said, “he often
does that sort of thing when
he can’t see anyone else to
talk to.”
It occurred to me that if left
alone with the birds this laddie
would grow up able to con-
verse quite freely with
them . . .
For outright stunting-skill
the best I’ve seen were some
dollar-birds nesting in a very
high tree in our Brisbane back-
yard a few years ago. They
were parrot-sized, greyish and
frog-beaked, with a cry like
the amplified -“Chacka-chacka”
of a tortured chimpanzee.
They could rocket vertically
from the ground to the height
of their tree, flick on their
backs and plummet to within
a foot of the ground, and
repeat the trick ad infinitum.
They preferred the most
violent stunting to -taking it
easy in the air.
One of the clumsiest flyers
is the Bird of Paradise. In
parts of New Guinea where
he’s plentiful you don’t have
to go to a great deal of trouble
to spot this colorful candidate
for the awkward-squad. He’s
a disgrace, and should be
grounded for life.
An astounding thing about
birds is that they differ
more in their manner of walk-
ing than in any other particu-
lar. All birds are either
walkers or hoppers—there’s
nothing in between. Runners
and waddlers are walkers.
Same leg-action. And a&
different from that of a hopper
as a kangaroo’s gait is from
a goanna’s.
All seabirds are walkers
when ashore, and so are fresh-
water fowl. Here we include
petrels, gulls, black swans, duck
—penguins if you like. Any-
thing that swims. Obviously
the leg-action in swimming
leads to the walking-action on
land. All parrots walk. Well,
you could hardly use a hop-
ping action for tree-climbing.
Walkers also are the long-
legged waders. Ibis, crane and
that ilk. And the non-flying
types like cassowary and emu.
Magpies walk on the
ground, but the kookaburra
hops. Other hoppers are
sparrows, wrens, wagtails,
whose stride is so short that
walking would be pretty much
like marking - time. You’d
expect the little peewee to be


Rviffi in liie
Fniurc
\
0
mk
An Australian who has been to California will
know that many of its flowers and much of its
vegetation are similar to our own. Our eucalypts,
transplanted there, have thrived and multiplied.
In geography and climate California has
always reminded me very much of what we have
territorially in Australia. As a State it is about
half the size of New South Wales, and less than a
quarter the size of Queensland.
Since 1940 it has doubled its population,
which is now one-third as great again as the total
population of Australia.
Much of this remarkable expansion may be
traced to California’s share in the pulsating
economy of the United States as a whole. It is
related also to the big industrial development that
has risen within its own borders along with
agriculture. But to see it at first-hand is to realise
there is more to the story than that.
The average rainfall over much of California’s
crop-lands is about ten inches a year. A large part
of the State has less than six inches. Half a
century ago dismal forecasts were being made
about the future of Southern California because of
the meagreness of its supplies of surface water.
Today, with extensive irrigation, it is famous
for its vineyards and orchards, its citrus groves and
crop-farms, with which go an efficient marketing
system and an attendant industry in the large-scale
packaging of food.
The process continues. California has
water-augmenting schemes that entail its pumping
and piping from rivers hundreds of miles away—at
a capital works cost running into thousands of
millions of dollars. With other American States,
it is using modern techniques for de-salting sea
water and converting brackish water into fresh.
The implications for Australia are plain.
Where a State or a country has the will and
the wisdom to Think and act courageously, it can
overcome whatever inequities Nature may impose
in the task of lifting itself to high prosperity from
out of the watered soil.
// //asf“*$ s
7
a hopper, too, but he gets
around alsame emu. I’ve for-
gotten now what an eagle does
on the ground.
We can thank bird-watchers
for thousands of years back
for the fact that we now have
contraptions in which we our-
selves can fly. To accomplish
this we cracked only three of
the birds’ secrets: the shape
of his wing, the ratio of his
weight to the size of his wing,
and streamlining. But the bird
remains a featherweight bundle
of mystery.
We don’t know for sure how
migratory birds manage their
most accurate navigation.
Why a trip halfway round the
world is a piece of cake to
them. How a fledgling mutton-
bird leaves a Bass Strait island
for fields far distant and finds
his way back in due season.
How a swarm of birds, tight-
packed and going full belt, can
turn in a flash, in unison. A
cloud of galahs changing from
grey to pink as the birds turn
illumines this question. We
don’t even know exactly how
a homing-pigeon homes. It’s
been claimed recently in South
Australia that radioactivity
has had a calamitous effect on
these birds’ homing. What
kind of built-in radar has a
bird got? Or a bat? Or a
bee?
It begins to seem that the
only birds we really know are
birds of passage, birds of a
feather and birds given to
changing their plumage in mid-
flight.
grip the stern. He tried to
heave himself on board, his
eyes rolling at the lapping
waves; then he began to plead
and curse as Anna hammered
at his fingers and once he
screamed as she lowered her
head and bit deeply into his
hand. Joe left the wheel and
stumbled to the stern, the
sharp knife in his hand. He
stood beside Anna and slashed
down, twice.
HThe sharks came, the way
A they always do, flashing
up from the secret depths so
that, suddenly, they were there.
They cut swathes through the
fish, then one continued its
charge right to the launch,
struck, and whirled away.
Another shark slid - towards
the launch, almost on the sur-
face, its exposed dorsal fin
curling over slightly, like a
leaf. Joe watched, the scarred
side of his face twitching as
he listened to the moaning.
A cold yellow eye looked up
unwinkingly at him, then the
shark struck and the clutching
hands were dragged loose. The
moaning was cut off as though
a soundproof door had closed.
Cun wedged deeply in the
clouds, streamers of gold
and scarlet flung across the
darkening sky, a lonely sea-
bird, on its way to roost at
the black beacon, looked down
on the two people in the chat-
tering launch, then croaked
harshly as it sped out over the
reef.
“The sharks are quick when
they get wild like that,” Joe
said. “When they get you
under the water, it’s finish.
So it was maybe not such a
bad way to go.”
No answer, no movement,
not even recognition that he
had said anything. Joe spat
over the side and tried again.
“We be all right,” he said.
“We got the house to ourselves
now, so no more worry.
Because she tried to kill you
one time before.”
“You’re mad, Joe,” Reg said.
“Really lialia. I know she
she tried to do it this time,
but not before.”
“True’s up, bro. I’m stupid
sometimes, but I’m not lialia.
The time you thought you had
food-poisoning, it was poison-
ing all right; it was her did
it. She told me. And she was
going to collect your insurance
and live with me. She had the
plan, but I just change the
plan a little bit.”
“You wouldn’t have lasted
long with her,” Reg said. His
voice was thin and bitter.
“Man, I know. I’m not so
stupid as all that. But I know
you never believe me unless
you see for yourself, so I let
you get really fright before I
pull you out. That woman big
fool. Think she make me kill
me brother for her. If I need
a woman, I can get one. But
not one brother.”
“Joe, look. I’ll do the talking
and might be you won’t get
into trouble. But please, for
crissakes, please don’t talk
about it now.”
“Okay, bro. Whatever my
brother say.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Physicians and Surgeons
Dr. Paul R. Hawley, director
of the American College of
Surgeons, got this off his chest
at a recent dinner in Man-
hattan : “It is reliably esti-
mated that today one-half of
the surgical operations in the
United States are performed by
doctors who are untrained or
inadequately trained to under-
take surgery.” A frightening
charge, and one wonders what
the percentage would be in
Australia.
Not so high, possibly; the
tendency here seems to be for
fewer and fewer general prac-
titioners to tackle any sort of
surgery at all. Good trans-
port-facilities and the nearness
of base-hospital towns are
resulting in most G.P.s dealing
with cases as far as they are
able, and then, if surgery is
indicated, passing them on to
surgeons in larger centres.
In the old horse-and-buggy
days this was not so, and the
general run of country doctors
had, of necessity, to tackle
pretty well anything. Too
many nowadays are content
just to go along quietly with
a nice “panel” of pensioner-
patients whom they can visit,
or be visited by, as often as
they like. Admittedly they are
only paid half-fees or there-
abouts for these social-service
patients, but many of them
must be doing very well out
of it.
The result is, of course, that
many young men after gradu-
ating drift into that sort of
practice and after very few
years have forgotten most of
what they ever knew about
the surgery side of medicine.
Australia is dotted with small
towns which have to put-up
with that sort of medical
attention.
Dr. Hawley went on to say
that one of the most dis-
tinguished surgeons in the
world had told him that at
least half his current practice
consists of attempts to correct
the bad results of surgery....
by doctors inadequately trained
in this field.
For the reasons given I would
suggest that in Australia such
a state of affairs is unlikely.
The standard of surgeons in
Australia is high, but there are
not enough of them. However,
there are more than enough
doctors of the other type
mentioned. Nothing wrong
with their initial training, but
they drift into the easy type
of practice, lose touch and are
not up-to-date on modern
developments. I have seen
advertisements of practices for
sale where the great selling-
points stressed are “no surgery,
midwifery or weekend work.”
Perhaps, in view of Dr.
Hawley’s remarks —and he is
No. 1 guardian of the standards
of U.S. surgery and the pre-
rogatives of surgeons—it may
be as well that too many do
“It’s not LIKE Spike — he's always so tidy!"
not attempt surgery in their
practices, but I notice that most
doctors describe themselves on
their brass-plates as physicians
and surgeons. They seem to
like the title, but not the work.
Perhaps lack of ambition is the
cause ; there is so much good
money to be picked-up by
taking the easy way.
Appendix (Vic.).
Electing Mayors
The N.S.W. Government’s
proposal to allow the State’s
15 cities to institute election of
their mayors by popular vote
(with voting compulsory in
Wollongong and Newcastle, as
well as Sydney) has nothing
to commend it. The argument
in support of it, voiced by the
president of the Local Govern-
ment Association, Alderman
Morse—that election in this
way would prevent mayors
from depending for support
on groups of aldermen is
absurd. Any popularly elected
mayor of a large municipality
will have to be backed by a
group—in other words, a well-
financed organisation. No
independent could hope to win
an election.
Under the traditional system,
whereby the aldermen elect the
mayor, it is not uncommon for
a mayor to be chosen, irre-
spective of his municipal or
political affiliations, because he
is held ia high esteem by his
colleagues. Mr. Mahoney,
present holder of the Parra-
matta seat in the N.S.W.
Assembly, though an A.L.P.
stalwart, was Mayor of Parra-
matta in a council predomi-
nantly non-Labor. The present
Mayor of Burwood, Alderman
Harris, is also a Labor-party
representative in a substanti-
ally non-Labor council. Cases
like these are not to be found
where popular election is the
rule.
Another disadvantage of the
projected system is that the
services of a beaten candidate
for mayor are lost to the
council —this doesn’t happen
under aldermanic election.
A candidate backed by a
strong organisation with plenty
of publicity-resources has a big
advantage in popular elections.
Skilful campaigning and
fluency in speech are also
strong assets ; but the man who
has them is not necessarily the
best executive type. — Terry
the Tory (N.S.W.).
Footwear Prices
Can’t agree with the results
of “P.O.M.C.’s” judicious
inquiry into hides and foot-
wear prices (B. 1/7/’59). They
don’t tally with a quotation
from a Sydney bootmaker
£l4 14s. for boots to measure ;
£l2 12s. off the peg. By way
of recommendation he says:
“We use only best-quality
German calf.” A pricier
quotation comes from an
equally exclusive bootmaker
in Adelaide who says he uses
Australia’s best leathers in the
soles. This man makes saddles,
too, and uses only imported
pigskin.
I can’t even agree with
“P.O.M.C.’s” assertion that
top-grade Australian hides are
overexported, for my Brisbane
daily tells me that a leader in
the local leather business has
just gone abroad to find out
why it’s now impossible to sell
hides overseas.
Meantime the finest-grained,
strongest and best-looking of
all Australian hides —kangaroo
—is rotting in the bush. In the
Territory the other day they
shot 11,000 kangaroos on
Hamilton Downs, and near
Charleville (Q.) lately they shot
6500. And, although kangas
are swarming all over the
country just now, it doesn’t pay
to shoot them, because the
hide-market is in the doldrums.
—Raw Material (Q.).


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON sT
O'SCLUVav
PTY . LT “ A
Jackson# O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd. ‘
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE- MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STF.REOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS'
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Heredity? Environment?
“Schoolmaster’s” claim (B.
1/7/’59) that “it is an unfail-
ing common pattern for the
human organism to be in
essence the product of its
environment,” appears to
stress environment at the
expense of the hereditary
factor.
Can he explain why most
of the brothers and sisters of
young delinquents are not
themselves delinquent; why
the majority of children from
broken homes are not problem-
children ; or why the “human
organisms” in orphanages are
not almost identical in con-
duct, character, temperament,
etc.?
A few generations ago
William James and William
McDougall stressed the view
that instincts in man are
dominant motive forces,
though granting that these
instincts or innate propensities
could be modified to some
extent by environment.
A reaction followed, par-
ticularly in the U.S., where the
belief that almost everything
in man is the result of environ-
ment and conditioning was
enthusiastically adopted.
Needless to say, it suited the
democratic spirit of the age.
However, pressure of facts
has forced a return towards
McDougall’s position, and the
behaviorists are in full retreat.
In the words of H. S. Lang-
■ feld, Professor of Psychology
at Princeton: “Now the trend
lis to recognise more decidedly
.the great influence of innate
I tendencies, and of individual
I differences in these, rather
I than to regard environmental
'influences as supreme.”
! To sum-up, what one is
I results from what one inherits
“multiplied by” what one
I experiences—and the former
Sis as least as important as
the latter.—Syko (N.S.W.).
Teaching Languages
Successful instruction by the
direct method need not be
'individual. In fact, it is more
successful when it is collective.
h have myself taken large
groups of foreign migrants in
j this way.
The boys in “Ardoyne’s”
(son's class will get their
'grammar later. Meantime, if
they don’t succeed in passing
J Intermediate French at the end
of the year, let them be patient.
If they persevere with French
as far as the Leaving, they'll
I probably get a much higher
'pass in that subject than would
have been the case had they
not had so wise a teacher at
junior level.
However, to study French
merely for the sake of pass-
ing an examination strikes me
as . . . well, not exactly cricket;
and not exactly educational,
either. — Sir (Q.).
French has been taught in
Australian schools for many
years, and there seems to be
little move to make a change.
However, the time is coming
when this must be considered.
Admittedly, French is a suit-
able language for our schools
in that the alphabet is the
same and, although verbs are
conjugated in various ways,
there are no noun-declensions
“ Edward — I'm Warning you! Come away before
you get that dreaded echo-six !”
to master. But doesn’t it seem
that Russian will be used more
and more in future?
Russia is turning-out enor-
mous masses of material in
many fields of research, and
most of it is lost to research-
workers in this country. Asian
languages would also be use-
ful, but primarily as a means
of communication: as yet
there isn’t much that is educa-
tionally worth while coming
from Asia.
Isn't the time ripe for a
revision of languages taught?
—G. R. (N.S.W.).
State of the Union
The generally poor record of
Australian Rugby Union teams
in recent years has led
N.S.W.R.U. administrators to
consider ways and means of
raising the standard of the
game.
One suggestion worth exam-
ining is to replace the district
competition in the Sydney area
—Australia’s Union strong-
hold —by a club competition
without residential restrictions,
such as was in vogue until the
district system was instituted
at the beginning of this
century.
This would probably raise
the standard in first-grade and
consequently in representative
teams. It should also increase
attendances at club games.
The non-residential club
system would be more flexible
than the district system. Stipu-
lation that the bottom team in
a grade should fall to the grade
below for the following
season (the winner of that
grade to come up) would
greatly sharpen competition.
It would also enable an
individual grade to have
fewer teams. New clubs could
be admitted to lower grades
and would have to work
their way up. This should
encourage the formation of
many more clubs.
Under the district system it
often happens that one club
will have too many high-class
players competing for a
specialist position, while other
clubs may have no truly first-
grade candidates for that posi-
tion. At present those in the
first category who don’t make
the first-grade side have to
play second- or even third-
grade. " The non-residential
system would enable these
players to join other clubs.
This, combined with a smaller
number of first-grade teams,
would ensure a higher general
level of ability.
The district club covers
several suburbs. Its boundaries
are as artificial as those of a
Parliamentary electorate. Resi-
dents of the outer parts of a
district, unless they are real
enthusiasts for the code, are
unlikely regularly to patronise
the club’s home-ground. Also,
dislike of having to travel
several miles to training causes
many school stars either to
give-up the game or to confine
themselves to junior and sub-
district Union, neither of which
requires residential qualifica-
tions.
The non-residential system,
by encouraging genuinely local
clubs, would bring more spec-
tators and players to the game.
Some district clubs include
areas where there is little
support, player or spectator,
for Rugby Union ; in others
at least two strong clubs that
would attract good crowds
could be formed.
A non-district club system
would also enable big organisa-
tions like the Police Force, Fire
Brigades, United Services and
Y.M.C.A., to field sides of
first-grade calibre. Such clubs
would bring players into the
game whom the district clubs
never attract. Cunedda
(N.S.W.).
Pensioners’ Rates
I have met numbers of
pensioners living in municipal
areas in which their local
council has exempted them
from payment of rates, who


fear that these accumulated
rates may eventually become
a charge against their estates.
I put the question to an
official of the Local Govern-
ment Department in Sydney
and was assured that where
a council takes advantage of
the department’s scheme to
recompense it for half of any
rates it remits, there is no
possibility whatsoever of such
rates ever becoming a charge
against an "estate. The council
concerned accepts the other
half of the rates as its own
liability and wipes the pen-
sioner’s indebtedness from its
records. This is a year-by-year
policy; and the remission of
rates one year does not neces-
sarily mean that council will
adopt a similar procedure the
following year.
In cases where a council
merely suspends payment of a
pensioner’s rates and does not
take advantage of the L.G.
Department’s scheme to re-
coup it for half the amount, the
council holds itself free at any
time to move for a recovery
of the whole of the amount
owing by the pensioner, either
while he is living, if it thinks
he is able to pay, or against
his estate when he dies.
Any pensioner who has been
exempted by his council from
payment of rates for any one
year and is uncertain whether
it is a total remission of the
liability or merely a suspension,
is advised to ask his council to
define his position. If the
answer is that the liability has
been wiped off, the pensioner
will be saved a good deal of
worry.
The Blue Mountains City
Council, in refusing a recent
request to waive or write-off
rates owed by pensioners,
pointed out that if it were to
agree to either course it would
benefit only pensioners who
were property-owners and who
would thus enjoy a concession
not available to pensioners
paying rent, who were often
in a much worse financial posi-
tion.
Council told its petitioners
that it considered that any
additional assistance to be
rendered to pensioners should
be a charge against the social-
service fund, in which case the
cost of the concession would be
made-up by the taxpayers as
a whole and not merely by
a section of ratepayers in a
local-governing area. There
is a good deal of logic and
commonsense in this conten-
tion.—Peter Simple (N.S.W.).
Adult Education
Concern about the lack of
teachers, accommodation and
general facilities at schools
prompts me to wonder about
all the money currently being
spent on adult education.
At present Sydney and its
suburbs can offer adults in-
struction in an enormous
variety of intellectual and
technical subjects. A large per-
centage of housewives and
mothers attend at least one
class a week; many attend
more.
That a continued craving for
knowledge among our citizens
is desirable I do not doubt.
That every possible attempt
should be made to satisfy it I
agree. But surely the educa-
tion and training of the young
should take precedence?
The fact is that many
trained teachers prefer to
teach at these evening classes
where their pupils don’t need
the same disciplinary measures
as children and, having
enrolled on their own iniative,
are eager to learn.
Nevertheless, these adult
students rarely return the
fruits of their learning for
the benefit of society generally.
They don’t, in the main, turn
their training to professional
channels. Frequently, par-
ticularly in the case of women,
they drop one course of study
halfway through to take up
another that promises fresh
interest.
For the majority, adult
educational classes are a form
of relaxation, an escape from
daily routine. And there are
few parents who will trouble
to brush-up their elementary
mathematics or reading of
standard literary classics so
that they may help their child-
ren struggling in overcrowded
classes, or assist the teacher
hopelessly overburdened with
pupils.— Pat (N.S.W.).
Buying Houses ,
There is far too much delay
in the buying and selling of
homes. A young couple pay-
ing a deposit to an estate-agent
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 548
Across
I—Get1 —Get in ahead of the wood and everything. (9)
6—Mother is after a good round section of Italy. (5)
9 —They’ve taken orders for fruit darkens in the sunshine. (9)
10— Butter that is fibre. (5)
11 — Face the wrong way when set in position to give help
to 50. (4)
12 — Inter-State speed contest for light aircraft in an ZEgean
island. (10)
14 — Snuggle down in the flyer’s home
with the French. (6)
15 — Ardent enthusiast’s Indian corn
quantities offered at auction. (7)
18 —A stylish alternative, but why a
coffee adulterant? (7)
20 —Husky one swallowed by a
jockey’s mount. (6)
24 — Modified coke adverb is subject
to too much support from
punters. (10)
25 Observe a little drink locality. (4)
27 Drop a medico - seen with a
parent play which doesn't go
after laughs. (5)
28— Miss Davis is to telephone when
producing a result superior to
another’s. (9)
29 Disorderly dopes stood for an
artist. (5)
30 — Sunburfit Ottoman country. (9)
Down
1— It’s foolish and trivial fish to
measure a little tootsy,
perhaps? (8)
2 Fruit artist against whom Yours
Truly commits some mis-
demeanor. (7)
3 Thrown off a building. (4)
4 Oil port is an evil one. (6)
5 Educated though short of Id. (8)
6 Fairy on a non-lioness of the Leo
tribe point where we’re closest
to the sun. (10)
7 Raging gasp of a woolgrower. (7)
8 — Summits pop-up the expenses. (6)
13 —Harlem - guest-houses offer such
a basis for instruction. (10)
16— Flittermouse modelled in terra-
cotta? (8)
17 — Write some label on this figure
building in Washington. (8)
19 —Brays. (3-4)
21 — Cloth isn’t a cheap golf-ball. (7)
22 — Prop For Robbery Under
Arms. (4-2)
23 — Latvian Queen who takes a
tenant communication. (6)
26 —Fairy like lolanthe by one. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 547.


on a home they’ve inspected
are often told that they will
have possession and that the
transaction will be completed
in about six weeks ; but in a
great many cases it’s nearer
six months before everything
is fixed-up.
There seem to be delays all
along the line. The estate-
agent blames the banks or
some other finance-body. The
seller blames the buyer’s solici-
tor ; the buyer blames the
seller’s solicitor ; the solicitors
blame each other and claim
they have to suffer delay with
the Lands Department, the
Registrar-General and various
other departments.
All these delays mean that
the buyer is paying rent for
months unnecessarily, and the
seller is waiting for money he
needs either to buy another
home or to buy a business or
to invest in some other way.
Today you can buy a motor-
car, arrange finance and get
possession within a matter of
days. Surely it shodld be
almost as easy to buy a home
and get possession of it? —-
W.P.T. (N.S.W.).
Penalties for Juveniles
A 15-year-old Westralian
schoolboy who made a practice
of stealing cars at night to
drive them around has been
sentenced to 12 months in an
institution, to be released
after two months if his
behavior warrants it. That’s
fair enough, I suppose ; but the
conviction also carries an auto-
matic disqualification from
holding a driver’s licence for
15 years after his 17th birth-
day.
That seems savage. If an
adult steals a car valued at
U P to £2OOO, he can expect to
pay the penalty, whether the
property is recovered or not,
and a 15-year disqualification
may not be too severe. But
such a penalty inflicted jOn a
child, who couldn't be expected
to appreciate the seriousness of
ms acts, and who may not
have any actual vice in him,
smacks very much of times
that we tell ourselves we’ve
far behind. It could be
almost the equivalent of a life-
miprisonment.
Consider what it means. The
act that he’ll be unable to own
a car until he’s 32 is the least
°t it. He’s automatically de-
arred from employment in
fly occupation involving the
driving of vehicles and that
covers a wide field at a time
rf.the present, when a lad
school hasn’t a great
me of jobs. It ranges from
truck-driving to outdoor sales-
manship ; even a lad who
starts work as a messenger-
boy is expected to be able to
drive the firm’s car or scooter
when he's old enough. There
are a hundred-and-one occu-
pations in which a car is
required or ability to drive is
a governing condition. Would
a farmer nowadays employ a
hand who couldn’t drive? Some
may. Many wouldn’t. In any
case, how does a young man
explain to a prospective em-
ployer that he can’t obtain a
licence, whether one is neces-
sary or not? By saying he was
convicted of car-stealing?
If that lad’s lucky enough
he'll secure an apprenticeship
“False pretences, I call it — Foe seen Worse on TV!"
in a trade where he can get
by without a licence. If he
doesn’t get such an apprentice-
ship he faces a life of laboring.
At the very best his choice is
extremely limited.
A law which automatically
sentences a 15-year-old lad to
such a life is savage and
archaic ; and if the man who
develops from the lad becomes
anti-social, the law is to blame.
As it stands, the law has
to be enforced. But it doesn’t
follow that it has to be
retained, or that it can't be
modified. Pieter Nuyts
(W.A.).
The Freelance Writer
At a recent gathering of a
Melbourne writers’ club the
speaker for the evening an
Australian author who has
been teaching short - story
writing for 30 years —said that
the outlook for the Australian
freelance writer was worse
than it had ever been in his
experience. For both short-
stories and articles the market
opportunities had seriously
declined during the past four
or five years, and there seemed
little prospect of improvement
—rather, with the extension of
television, markets for printed
material would decline still
further.
Every freelance writer with
post-war experience of trying
to place short-stories and
articles knows the truth of
these statements. A number of
publications that formerly
accepted Australian copy fairly
readily have either folded-up
or resorted to publishing syndi-
cated overseas material to the
exclusion of local work.
The winding-up of maga-
zines, of course, has been
happening throughout the
English-speaking world. This
is understandable, having
regard to steeply increasing
costs and competition from
television. But the exclusion
of the local author and his
work seems to be purely an
. Australian phenomenon.
I have yet to find the
American magazine that con-
sistently gives pride of place
to English authors; or, con-
versely, the English periodical
that treats the English writer as
an inferior craftsman to the
overseas author. Yet perusal
of almost all Australian
periodicals —except, of course,
The Bulletin would sug-
gest that their proprietors
deliberately give a subordinate
place, if any, to locally written
material.
It may be conceded, per-
haps, that Australian periodi-
cals are faced with high costs,
and that they cannot afford to
pay more than the low prices
for which syndicated overseas
copy is available. But this
doesn’t wholly explain why
Australian work figures so
rarely in their pages. Aus-
tralian authors are not accus-
tomed to receiving anything
like the high rates paid by
overseas magazines ; and many
would readily accept relatively
low rates for their work, and
would produce a great deal of
acceptable material, if a
reasonable market were avail-
able.
Again, it is sometimes
argued that Australian writers
in general fall short of the
standards of American short-
story writers. The answer is,
surely, that American pub-
lishers and the American
reading public are strongly
nationalistic in their outlook ;
they prefer stories that mirror
the life and ways of the
American people.
If the same encouragement
were given by Australian
publishers and readers to
our own writers, our
standards would undoubtedly
rise. In any case, the success
of Australian writers overseas
indicates that some, at least,
have already reached a high
standard. In fact, some Aus-
tralian authors have had the
absurd experience of having
short-stories rejected by Aus-
tralian magazines, but accepted
overseas and subsequently
bought under syndicated terms
by Australian periodicals!
D. J. G. (Vic.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
JACKEROOS, PAST AND PRESENT
From “CAIUS”
T have just been talking to a
young bloke who’s com-
pleted two years as a jackeroo
on a Merino-stud in the
southern Riverina. Apart from
general stud-sheep work, he
gained considerable experience
in pasture-work under irriga-
tion and learned the use of the
latest equipment under a boss
who promised the prompt
bullet to • anyone driving a
station-vehicle at more than
30 m.p.h.—evidently a very
sound man.
It was different 50 years ago.
I remember catching a coach
at Quirindi (N.S.W.) for Pine
Ridge, about 16 miles west, and
taking a sulky from there on
to Windy, the western portion
of the old Australian Agricul-
tural Com p a n y’s Warrah
station on the Liverpool Plains.
I went there as a jackeroo, to
learn about sheep and cattle.
(“And don’t think you’ll know
all about ’em in two years,”
said my wise parent; “you’ll be
learning until you die.”)
The reputation of Aus-
tralian Wool in some
important overseas mar-
kets is being lowered
by the contamination
of jute fibres from wool-
packs.
The jute is showing up
as an undyed fibre in
the fabric because of
its low affinity for most
wool dyes. C.5.1.R.0.
in conjunction with
other interested bodies
are now conducting
a research programme
aimed at the elimina-
tion of this danger.
The dangers normally
associated with mark-
ing and tailing are con-
siderably reduced when
the operation is carried
out with Elastrator
Rubber Rings. For
safe, bloodless and
humane castration and
tailing, specify Elas-
trator Rubber Rings.
Warrah and Windy then
covered some 325,000 acres,
with a dividing-lane five chains
wide and 15 miles long between
them —plains and basalt ridges,
timbered with white- and
yellow-box and with white-box
and pine islands in the big pad-
docks —and not a waste acre in
the lot. The land had been
ably selected for the company
by William Carey Dangar, and
the grant was dated January 15,
1815.
We hear a lot about what
famous men like William
Farrar did for wheat in Aus-
tralia, but may not recognise
how much future generations
owed to W. C. Dangar’s fore-
sight. About 1825 he published
a small brochure in England
advising those who came to the
Antipodes to bring seeds of
lucerne, rye-grass and white-
clover. From Victoria to the
Queensland border, at least,
this advice has brought in vast
profits from sheep and cattle,
and paved the way for the
increase in pasture-improve-
ment which later came with
super, and trace-elements.
In the days I am writing
about, jackeroos had their own
quarters and cook. They were
allotted horses as their own
and went ahead with the
ordinary station-work —mainly
with the overseer, who dealt
with the cattle, or with the
boss, who had to draft
innumerable mobs of fat sheep.
These had to be taken to
Warrah Lane, and then Warrah
men drove them to trucks at
Willow Tree.
The Merino flock looked
like concertinas in those days
and cut heavy fleeces. There
were 70,000-odd ewes, apart
from a Border Leicester-cross
flock of about 20,000, and on
the whole place only two sets
of sheepyards, one at the
homestead and the other three
miles away at Old Windy.
Cattle-numbers were about
5500, mainly well-bred Dur-
hams and a draft of Herefords
from the Vickery’s farther
north—all branded AV on the
ribs—that were fattened-out
at four years. Calf-marking
was done in the yards at the
homestead generally 600
calves, almost young bulls at
marking-time, so it depended
how good you were at dodging
or at climbing the fence
whether you had a good side
to sleep on at night. With big
mobs of fats to get away, there
was generally a long ride in
the early morning, sometimes
20 miles; then we had to
muster the fat bullocks and
hold them for the overseer to
cut-out about 200, take these
to the lane, and then go home
—and sometimes, especially in
the wet, you didn’t worry about
which side was sore, but about
another portion of your
anatomy.
Lambing-time was a long
day’s job. Trying to look
after 4000 or 5000 ewes in a
big paddock was a problem—
especially the three-year-old
ewes joined to Border Leicester
rams. Percentages were always
low, and it was difficult to
save the lambs ; though per-
centages from the crossbred
ewes were usually on the 100
mark. Once we had to muster
and yard 10,000 crossbred ewes
for Thomas Cook to take out
3000 lambs for a special export-
order. They were alike as two
peas, and I nearly lost my job
when they just missed getting
boxed in a paddock on the
way into the shed.
At lamb-marking we used to
camp-out with the bullock-
wagon, which carried the
hurdle-yards. Tying them to-
gether with greenhide, it didn’t
take us long to erect and dis-
mantle the hurdles in each
paddock in turn, though yard-
ing the lambs and ewes was
a ticklish time. As marking
took six weeks, the lambs were
well-grown towards the end
and took some lifting in the
tailing-yard.
Forty-four stands in the big
woolshed meant big mobs of
sheep coming and going all
the time. To get full-woolled
ewes and lambs across the
plains, when every ewe wanted
to know where its lamb was
rather than go in the right
direction, was a fair test of
your sanity—especially when
your flow of language had
dried-up and there was no
chance of a drink until they
were all yarded.
The wool was dumped for
export to London, very even,
big lines of each type, the top
two lines fetching lHd. and
lHd. in 1912-13. The old
classer got the doggy wool,
had it scoured in Sydney and
did well out of it—with enough
manure for a few suburban
gardens left over. The jackeroo
who branded the bales was
free of the sheep-jobs.
On Windy the water came
from wells, most of which had
windmills by that time-
although three were still
worked by a whim. This was
a circular contraption, round
which a horse walked ; as one
bucket was in the water, the
other reached the top aflCl
spilled into tanks, which gener-
ally watered four paddocks.
The w 7 ater-drawers, who ha
been there for years, were ol
men and real characters.
Tucker, at McDonald’s Cree >
must have been nearly 80, bu
was still a good horseman an
had an immaculate tent a fj
bark-home at the well,
was part of the history of J
sheep-industry in Austral
because, when working
young man for Mr. Sevil,


With a Tilley Pressure-
Kerosene Domestic Iron
you can press anything,
any time, anywhere.
On your travels or at
home, indoors or out,
\ 4 hours of easy-going,
heat-controlled
ironing on only 1/3
pint of kerosene.
No wires, no flex,
no trouble at all. The Tilley
Portable Iron is a first-class
engineering product
and 100% British Made.
£7-2-9
(freight extra outside
metropolitan area)
REGD.
TRUST TILLEY
for lighting and heating
(including, of course, pressing and pleating)
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essenden, Victoria.
Miller’s Creek (the property
south of Warrah), he caught
a ram which was the first sheep
identified as having scab. This
disease could have wiped-out
the industry for good and all
if the landholders of the time
hadn’t been stout - hearted
enough to bum their flocks and
stamp it out the hard way —
there were no inoculants in
those days.
Barney Feeley, too, had a
neat tent-home, at Round
Island well, and when once I
met him far across the plain
his horse, which had broken
its hobbles, was just out of
catching-distance. Barney was
dependent on the horse to draw
water, and his flow of language
in Irish and Australian was
something to listen to.
Tom King, at Cattle Creek,
was furthest out and had to
draw water for 10,000 acres,
running 500 cattle and a lot of
sheep. He always told us he
was going to Quirindi, but Pine
Ridge pub beat him, and he
never got there in 40 years.
Jackeroos were paid 10s. a
week then, with a rise of 10s.
after six months. They never
got away from the station,
except perhaps to visit some
friendly neighbor who knew
their families. I got over to
Kickerbill once to see Admiral
Johnny Bridges—he introduced
me to rum, so I had a good,
happy ride home. Once, also,
I went to a dance about 15
miles away—this was a mile-
stone !
No going into town on
Saturdays in the station-wagon
or trips to Sydney with stud-
stock, like today. But it was
good experience, gained on
land which had been held in
one hand for 100 years, and
managed wisely at that.
Lemons
“Sundowner”: For lemon-
trees, deep, well-drained, sandy
ground, with no lime to a depth
of 6ft., is ideal. Waterlogged
areas must be avoided.
If possible, groves should be
sited with an easterly or north-
easterly aspect, which will allow
long exposure to the sun and,
especially in coastal areas,
afford protection from cold
winds and frosts.
For protection against cold
prevailing south-westerlies it’s
wise to provide windbreaks of
pine, cypress or tree-lucerne,
ott. to 10ft. apart. Where the
aspect partly protects the grove,
a windbreak at the top is
\xrl» Ve or a l° n 8 distance.
indbreaks planted on the low
side of a grove should have
gaps for air-drainage, to
reduce damage from frost.
Usual patterns of planting
are square or rectangular, with
trees double-planted if there
is good supply of water.
Planting-distance must suit
district, type of soil and variety;
for ease of working, it’s best
to stick to a uniform interval
for all plantings on a property.
Contour-planting suits areas
liable to erosion; with this
method, though, underground
drainage is necessary for
removing surplus water from
the soil, and there must also
be sufficient fall along the
contour-lines to ensure r good
surface-drainage.
When trees are bought bare-
rooted, care must be taken to
prevent the roots drying-out
before they are put into the
ground. Cultivation should
be shallow, because lemon-
trees tend to surface-root-
ing and are prone to root-
diseases. Never cultivate closer
to the trunk than the spread of
the branches.
Lack of nitrogen—shown by
yellowing of the leaves —can
be cured by applying Bcwt.
sulphate-of-ammonia an acre
annually, three or four weeks
before flowering. If nitrate-of-
soda is used instead, give it in
two applications, each of 4cwt.
Urea, of a low-biuret brand,
applied at 4cwt. an acre, and
calcium-ammonium-nitrate, at
Bcwt., may also be used.
Organic manures —blood-and-
bone at-251b. a tree, and dried
blood, at 161 b., as well as
fowl-manure (901 b. a tree),
sheep - manure (1001 b.) and
horse-manure (2cwt. to 3cwt.)
are other valuable supplements,
though they all act slowly and
must be applied six weeks or
more before flowering.
Leguminous cover-crops also
help to increase the amount of
nitrogen in the soil.
For deficiency of potassium,
apply 21b. sulphate or chlorate-
of-potash to each tree every
two or three years. Super., at
2cwt. an acre, helps green cover-
crops to grow, and magnesium,
which may be necessary where
yellowing leaves show an
inverted V of green, should be
applied at 31b. a tree. Lack of
zinc—shown by little-leaf (or
mottle-leaf) —can be remedied
by spraying in spring with a
mixture of 101 b. zinc-sulphate
and 51b. limil in lOOgal. water.
Iron-deficiency can be cured by
using iron chelate.
If these mineral-deficiencies
are met, lemons generally do
well in a rainfall of not less
than 15in., though it will often
be necessary to use supple-
mentary irrigation from
January to March. Pruning
gives fruit of higher quality
and also usually results in a
higher yield, as well as making
pest-control, cultivation and
harvesting easier. It’s best done
after the winter-crop, to allow
the trees to take advantage of
spring-growth.
The best varieties for most
Australian conditions are
Lisbon and Eureka; others
recommended are Villafranca,
Meyer and Genoa.
Tractor Accidents
“MacMuirick”: Add these
snags to those set-down by
“Freddie” (B. 3/6/’59). A
driver may qualify for occupa-
tion of a hospital-bed—if not
a marble slab —by using a
power take-off without the
guard in position; driving
without being able to stop the
tractor instantly or with
wrongly adjusted brakes and
p.-t.-o. shafts ; striking a match
to examine the level of acid
in the battery ; and not check-
ing that the tractor is out of
gear . before cranking. And,
finally, don’t forget the wise
axiom: “Children and
machines don’t mix.”
Buffalo-fly
“Windy”: It’s rainstorms in
early spring, after a fairly dry
winter, that encourage the
spread of the buffalo-fly. The
pest, which came to Australia
when buffaloes were imported
to the Far North, lives on
cattle ; it has a preference for
bulls. About the size of the
ordinary house-fly, it has trans-
parent wings* which make it
hard to spot when resting. It
darts about the beast with great
speed when disturbed, and
then can be easily distinguished
from the small stable-fly, which
is more sluggish in flight.
Once hatched, the fly sticks
close to a beast, unless it is
disturbed. Scientists claim that
if it is kept off a beast for
more than 24 hours it will die.
It doesn’t suck the blood from


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
one spot only, like the tick, but
wanders about puncturing the
skin in dozens of places, caus-
ing the animal to rub itself to
relieve the irritation. Before
control-measures were as good
as now, it was common to see
animals with raw patches on
them as big as saucers.
The female fly lays eggs in
fresh droppings and the adult
fly emerges in about 10 days’
time. In very dry weather the
eggs may perish. They need
heat and moisture for hatching
—that’s why the fly is most
difficult to destroy on the
coastal strip of North Queens-
land and the Atherton Table-
land and in the Northern.
Territory.
Before D.D.T. came into
use the fly raged unchecked
and milk-production on dairy-
farms in bad areas sometimes
dropped as much as 50 per
cent. Flywire traps used to be
erected at the entrance of
dairy - yards. When cattle
walked through these traps the
flies were brushed off on to the
wire and, crawling through
small holes into a space be-
tween the two walls of the
trap, they were unable to find,
a way out and so were
destroyed. Traps did a lot to
keep the flies in check, but they
were not the whole answer.
When D.D.T. was intro-
duced, it was possible on
smaller farms to muster and
spray the cattle every three
weeks or so. Dairyfarmers
found they could keep the pest
in check by spraying the cattle
with a hand-atomiser when
in the bails. On bigger cattle-
runs, where ticks were a prob-
lem, a light spray on the wet
hides as cattle emerged from
the dip was all that was neces-
sary. But on larger holdings,
where musters are infrequent,
the buffalo-fly still remains,
It’s doubtful if the fly will ever
be killed-out. Constant treat-
ment is the only answer,
Dairyfarmers should always
be ready for the emergence of
the pest. A 4-per-cent, solu-
tion of D.D.T. sprayed along
the sides and backs of milkers
is all that’s needed. After the
whole herd has been sprayed
m this way it’s only necessary
to spray again every three
weeks and then you need do
Y k erd > be cause
Ay will get the poison as it
da rts from beast to beast when
disturbed,
i Dipping in the new phos-
Phate compounds keeps beef-
“Needs cleaning. Probably a busted spring .”
cattle clear of the fly. Where
arsenic-dip is used for tick,
cattle should be sprayed with
a 1-per-cent, solution of D.D.T.
while in the draining-yard.
There’s no need to wet the
beast completely with D.D.T.
A strip along the back is all
that’s needed, because the fly
is always on the move and will
come into contact with the
poison sooner or later.
Old Sows
“Big Billy”: Old sows cost
more to keep than young ones
and, though they may continue
to rear litters, sometimes miss-
out just at the wrong time.
Besides, it’s not economic to
keep old sows when they can
be sold as backfatters for twice
the price of young sows used
to replace them.
Each year select gilts from
the present litters, taking as
much care over choosing them
as you would with heifers for
the dairy-herd. Don’t be
misled by size and appearance,
though; make your choice
from large litters whose
mothers are quiet and easy to
handle. The best time to turn
gilts over and inspect them is
at weaning. Select those with
12 or more sound teats, but
avoid any with deformities or
lack of development.
Noxious Weeds
“North”: The Queensland
Government proposes to intro-
duce legislation to enforce
destruction of noxious weeds
on private properties. At
present it’s difficult to convict
offenders, and penalties
imposed by magistrates are too
light to act as a deterrent.
The new legislation will give
councils the power to clear the
land themselves if necessary,
and charge the cost against
offenders. If an owner refuses
to comply the Government
would be able to take posses-
sion and hand the land to the
Forestry Department for
afforestation.
Also, to give more effective
control and to co-operate with
shire councils, the Co-ordina-
tion Board is to be reconsti-
tuted. Crown lands are to be
given urgent attention, and any
not in use are to be made
available at a nominal rental
to those willing to keep the
weeds under control until the
property is needed by the
Crown. Local authorities are
to be held responsible for
cleaning-up the land they
control.
The weeds that cause most
trouble and expense are giant
sensitive-plant in the north of
the State, Harrisia - cactus
around Collinsville, and
groundsel (or Crofton-weed) in
the south-eastern districts.
The Government recently
allocated £50,000, to be spent
over the next five years, for
control of giant sensitive-plant.
Private landholders are co-
operating with local authorities
and the Government in an all-
out campaign against this pest.
Harrisia-cactus is more diffi-
cult to control. Burning, bull-
dozing and spraying with
arsenic - pentoxide are the
methods employed against it,
but progress is slow. The
Government is considering
putting a ban on the growth
of any kind of cactus in home-
gardens anywhere in the State,
because t-heir edible fruits are
eaten by birds, and the seeds,
therefore, quickly spread and
grow. Both Harrisia and
prickly-pear are garden-plants
gone wild and have been
spread by this means, while all
cacti grow from leaves which
can survive for long periods
without either soil or water.
Grounsel’s white, fluffy seeds
float long distances on the
wind. The weed has spread
on vacant land in the south-
east corner of the State and
now covers hundreds of square-
miles. Cutting only makes it
stool more strongly, so spray-
ing—though costly—is the only
answer.
Another pest, China-apple,
has become troublesome
around Charters Towers and
Ingham. It grows into a small
prickly tree, bearing a small
edible fruit with stone seeds,
and infests large areas so
badly that it’s impossible to
walk or ride through them.
Graziers have appealed to the
Government to do whatever it
can to stop the spread of this
weed.
Hundreds of lesser pests
infest the stock-routes and
many properties. The only
solution is a campaign aimed
at pest-control, like that being
planned and implemented by
the Government.
The Polworth
[From Mary Last]
Landmen in the Gundagai
and Riverina-border districts
of N.S.W. and in the Victorian
Mallee are becoming interested
in the Polworth breed because
they want wool-value, uni-
formity (in both wool and
sheep) and a dual-purpose
lamb, readily saleable as a
wether or ewe-weaner in local
markets.
The Polworth lamb, if well-
bred, can be depended on to
look attractive in the saleyards,
when presented at a special
stock-sale and if the number
in the pen equals a truckload
of not less than about 120. A
buyer is not keen on lets of
any breed that will not fill


DINGO
DESTRUCTION
No. 14 “ONEIDA”
JUMP TRAP
7iln.
Jaws
211 b.
Outstanding efficiency as Dingo
catcher, well established. Available
from woolbroking houses through-
out Australia.
Further particulars from
R. J. MURPHY,
555, G.P.0., Townsville, Q.
Sole Agent for Australia.
Box
truck-requirements, now that
transport is so pricey.
The Polworth does particu-
larly well on Merino-country
of a light nature, especially in
the cold districts of the south-
west slopes, with their 26in.
rainfall, and gives good results
also in the Victorian Mallee.
In Tasmania, too, the breed
has as good a following.
At a recent meeting of the
Polworth Sheepbreeders’ Asso-
ciation at Wagga (N.S.W.) it
was stated that for wool-
cutting the Polworth in
Queensland was outstanding.
In fineness of fibre, the Pol-
worth heads the list at 58’s,
with Southdown, Suffolk,
Dorset, Ryeland, Shropshire
and Corriedale at 50-56’s;
Romney Marsh at 46-50’s, and
Border Leicester at 40-44’s.
Therefore in the 64’s —average
Merino - country Polworth
wool makes a good showing.
In we.ight of fleece Polworth
heads Ryeland, Dorset, Suffolk,
Shropshire and Southdown.
With the Polworth wool-
quality kept about . 58-60’s, the
weight of fleece compares
favorably with good Merino
flock-sheep. Fleecd is even in
quality, although a little rough-
ness below the tail is tolerated
in otherwise good sheep. The
staple is approximately sin.
long (not less than 4in. for
studbook) and is full-bodied.
It is of good character, has
soft texture of a bright color
and is high-yielding. Com-
pared with the Merino, it is
longer, brighter and lighter in
condition, but not so dense.
In value the fleece is little short
of the Merino’s.
A Tarcutta (N.S.W.) grazier
quotes an interesting fact about
the price of Polworth wool
from his flocks. In the boom-
year, when he was not fully
stocked and his Polworth sheep
were in even better condition
than they are now, his
Polworth-wether wool brought
287 d. a pound and the Merino-
wether wool in his clip 276 d.
On his property this year I
saw six-year-old Polworth
wethers', even in size, confor-
mation and condition, which
would have made a photo-
graphic study. The sheep had
a virility that disguised their
age. They were one month
off-shears then, and when I
visited this . property again
recently the quality in their
wool was nearly equal to a
three-year-old’s.
By introducing a Polworth-
medium-Merino joining on a
nearby property at Junee,
another sheepbreeder sends a
clip to the wool-sales each year
which woolsellers’ representa-
fives acclaim as close to
Merino-wool in quality.
On Queensland’s Darling
Downs the Polworth, as a dual-
purpose sheep, can be crossed
to produce excellent fat-lambs.
In a recent instance, at War-
wick, a group of pure Pol-
worth lambs, 18 weeks old,
weighed, under Department of
Agriculture supervision, be-
tween 801 b. and 921 b., though
raised without supplementary
feeding. At the Stanthorpe
Show a Polworth lamb won
the heavyweight class against
all breeds —as a five-months-
old lamb it was estimated to
dress 401 b.
Farm Machines
Author of Machines on the
Farm (Odhams), H. J. Mine is
an English authority on farm-
mechanisation, and his book is
of universal application. Deal-
ing with every type of machine
for arable work likely to be
found on the average farm,
its contents cover ploughs,
harrows and cultivators of all
types, drills and planters,
machines for spreading fer-
tiliser and manure, for row-
crops, for spraying and dust-
ing and for haymaking and
silage; grain-harvesters and
grain-driers; root-harvesters ;
hammermills ; power-units and
transport-vehicles.
The comprehensive survey is
copiously and intelligently
illustrated with photographs
and diagrams, and besides
describing farm-machinery of
all sorts, the book includes
valuable advice on method-
study—it’s particularly good
on ploughing-operations and
on haymaking and grain-
harvesting. Can be recom-
mended with confidence to the
practical farmer, as well as
to students preparing for
examination.
Salt-poisoning of Pigs
“Kaytee”: Salt - poisoning
has been recognised as affect-
ing cattle, sheep and poultry,
but there has always been dis-
agreement between field-men
and laboratory-workers about
its incidence in pigs.
Field-workers will quote the
death of pigs where evidence
points to salt-poisoning, but
laboratory-workers, unable to
produce the condition in con-
trolled experiments, have never
succeeded in forcing pigs to
consume enough salt to pro-
duce poisoning—amounts of
over 10 per cent, of the ration
have been tolerated.
Now it looks as if experi-
mental workers have discovered
why their trials have failed.
Unable to produce the condi-
tion in an experiment, re-
searchers decided to try feed-
ing salt to pigs under condi-
tions prevailing on an ordinary
farm, not under those obtaining
at experimental stations. Two
groups of pigs were fed twice
daily on a low salt-diet. The
ration consisted of 57 per cent,
crushed corn, 28 per cent,
wheat-pollard, 14 per cent,
linseed-meal and ground
limestone soaked in three times
its volume of water. Water
was allowed ad lib. Trough-
space was ample at the start of
the experiment, but was not
extended as the pigs grew. This
caused increasing competition
in feeding and rapid eating.
Three months after the
experiment started, all addi-
tional drinking - water was
removed and a morning feed
was omitted. Swill containing
2 per cent, salt was given to
both groups at midday. Noth-
ing happened. Twenty-four
hours later a similar swill was
fed, and by next morning the
pigs showed symptoms of salt-
poisoning. The diet was im-
mediately returned to normal,
but only three pigs managed
to survive.
Serrated Tussock
“Clarence”: A noxious weed
known as “serrated tussock”
has caused alarm among sheep-
men in Tasmania.
A single plant, discovered on
the farm of an absentee land-
lord, has already spread to
seven properties in a 12-mile
radius, and more than 100
acres are infested. In one case
seed had been carried on a
sheep for 12 miles —in another,
wind was responsible for its
appearance six miles away.
Described as a “deadly
weed,” it strangles all other
pasture-growth, and no stock
will touch it. If it should reach
Tasmania’s Midlands grazing-
country the chances of con-
trolling it would be slight.
The Government is being
urged to compel landowners
to take action, one suggestion
being quarantine for properties
on which it is found. The
weed is said to be rampant in
New Zealand, where attempts
at its control have cost a lot of
money during the last few
years.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(9/7/’59)
Queensland should receive moderate rains during
August, although falls may be light on the Curtis division
and the centre-coast and far-western districts. Well-
distributed rains should continue in most of the State,
although flooding is indicated in the south-western districts
during the spring.
N.S.W. should get moderate rains during August, with
light falls on the South Coast and far-western districts and
best on the south-west slopes and Riverina. Well-distributed
rains should continue for the rest of the year.
Good general rains are indicated in Victoria during
August, with heaviest falls on the central, north-eastern and
western division. Flooding is likely in the southern half
of the State.
The agricultural areas of South Australia should
receive good rains in August. These falls may vary from
light to moderate in the Murray Valley and on the West
Coast, and may be only light on the interior.
The south-west agricultural areas of Western Aus-
tralia should also receive good rains in August, although
the rest of the State may have only light, patchy falls.
LENNOX WALKER.


_ Legal Notice
TO EDWARD JAMES WORTHINGTON
late of 15 Darley Street, llarlinghurst.
—TAKE NOTICE that AGNES IRENE
WORTHINGTON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2263 of 1959 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards.
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme- Court House Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 25th Sep-
tember 1959 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from W. A.
MAYNE, Solicitor, of 28 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS HURLEY CARMAN late
of Port Kembla.—TAKE. NOTICE that
AMY LILLIE CARMAN has filed Peti-
tion No. 1026- of 1959 for Divorce on
the grounds of desertion during three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by the 25th September
19f>9 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from J. C. PAYNTER,
Solicitor, of 107 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To find the whereabouts of my
father, Theodore Nicholson, who
emigrated to Australia from Durham
(England) many years ago. His
trade was butchering.—6B4B.
Information Sought
How should wood be prepared to
make a school-blackboard ?
Timber must be smooth and free
from knots, shakes or splits. Pro-
portions for dressing are: -jdb.
shellac, 4gal. methylated-spirit,
2oz. lampblack, 2oz. powdered-
emery, 2oz. ultramarine-blue. Dis-
solve shellac in the spirit. Place
lampblack, emery and ultramarine
on a cheesecloth-strainer and pour-
on part of the shellac solution,
stirring constantly, and gradually
adding the rest of the solution until
all the powders have passed through
the strainer. Stir well and use
quickly.
• • * *
Method of retaining colors in
pressed flowers ?
Flowers should be cut at their
prime and pressed between dry
blotting-paper; this will enable
them to retain their color for some
months when placed in pressing-
album. For longer lasting, the
flowers can be stuck into a lump
of clay or putty in the bottom
of a large box or jar and, slowly
and carefully, enough perfectly dry
white sand poured in to cover the
flowers completely. Keep in warm,
dry place for some weeks, then
press.
* * * *
Some details of the origin of the
sugar industry in Australia ?
In 1823 Thomas Scott made 80
tons of sugar at Port Macquarie
(N.S.W.), then a convict settlement
two years old. Interest lapsed, and
it was not until 1847 that experi-
ments were resumed, this time in
the Brisbane Valley. M. Buhot was
the first to manufacture from
Queensland-grown cane, which he
obtained from the Brisbane Botani-
cal Gardens. It was Louis' Hope
who put the industry on a commer-
cial basis. In 1863-64, in the
Moreton Bay district, he had 20
acres under cane, and in the latter
year he introduced Kanaka labor.
That year, too, the Queensland
Acclimatisation Society began
importing new cane-varieties, and
sugar-companies were formed in
Brisbane, Maryborough and at
Mackay, where John Spiller planted
the first cane. In 1865, 141 acres
were under cane. Louis Hope
received a land-grant in 1867 for
his work. In Queensland, by 1869,
there were 5000 acres under cane,
with 28 mills.
* * * *
May (1) photos, or (2) speeches
and lectures, of living celebrities,
especially statesmen, be reproduced
for advertising purposes ?
Copyright exists in favor of the
author —i.e., the taker of the photo
—not in favor of the subject of it.
Thus it would be an infringement
of a newspaper’s copyright in, say,
a photo of the Prime Minister taken
by its staff-photographer, to repub-
lish a copy of it. The P.M. him-
self would have no copyright in it.
(2) Greater difficulty arises with
regard to lectures and speeches.
No copyright exists in the mere
spoken word. But if a speaker
reduces his speeches to writing and
publishes them in book-form, he is
entitled to copyright in them. So,
too, if a reporter takes-down a
speech and his newspaper subse-
quently publishes a transcription,
copyright is held by the newspaper
in what is published. To merely
publish a short extract from such
a speech, attributing it to its correct
source, would not amount to an
infringement. But persons may
have other interests in their own
photographs. For instance, it
might (or might not) be libellous
to publish a celebrity’s photo as
part of an advertisement for some-
one’s product.
* * * *
Can frangipani be grown in areas
subject to frost ?
Yes, provided the frosts are not
excessive; it is primarily a warmth-
loving shrub. It does best against
a wall facing either east or north,
preferably north so that in winter
it will get the maximum of sun.
In frosty weather the shrub can
best be protected by a covering of
hessian —the leaves will by then
have fallen. If frosts are heavy
water the frangipani next morning
before the sun can get to the limb-
tips, as frost-damage to them will
jeopardise the emergence from these
of the foliage and flowers. Should
the shrub show softness near the
base all watering should be stopped,
and sand or a sandy loam added
to the soil to dry-out excessive
moisture.
• * * •
Brief particulars regarding the
notorious Judge Jeffreys ?
Born at Acton, in Denbighshire,
in 1648, George Jeffreys became a
favorite of James 11, who raised
him to the peerage soon after his
accession. At the “Bloody Assize”
of 1685, which followed the abor-
tive Monmouth Rebellion, the
savagery of Jeffreys’s behavior made
his name -a byword. On James’s
downfall he attempted to escape
overseas, but was intercepted at
Wapping, disguised as a sailor, and
sent to the Tower to prevent his
being torn to pieces by the mob.
There he died four months later,
on April 18, 1689, from gallstones
complicated by alcoholism.
* * * •
What is the difference, if any,
between a “square-mile” and “a
mile square” ?
Both have the same area; i.e., the
equivalent of a square with sides
one mile in length; but “one mile
square” indicates that the shape of
the area is square. A “square-mile”
may refer to a similar area of any
shape. Two-miles square, however,
is four square-miles, not two
square-miles.
* * * *
Claims are often loosely made
about the supposed medicinal value
of onions and parsley. Has any
authentic medical opinion been
given ?
Dr. J. G. Richardson, Professor
of Hygiene at the University of
Pennsylvania (U.S.A.), has given
it as his opinion that onions pro-
mote digestion; act on the liver by
increasing secretion of bile, and are
effective in combating constipation,
and that they are valuable in cases
of stomach and intestinal disorders.
He claims that a hot infusion made
from fresh parsley-roots and drunk
freely will inorease secretion of
urine in cases of dropsy, and that
the lotion is a good skin-beautifier.
*? * * •
Is the president of a society, who
is also the chairman at general meet-
ings, in order in taking part in d
debate as a private member ?
If the chairman desires to take
part in a debate the proper pro-
cedure is for him to request some
responsible person to take the chair
while he speaks either in favor or
against a motion. By doing so
he becomes for the time being an
ordinary member of the society, and
at the same time doesn’t put ir>
danger his reputation for imparti-
ality as chairman. '
* * * *
Which cricket Test between Eng-
land and Australia had the closest
finish ?
The honor most likely belongs
to the fourth Test at Manchester
in 1902 when Australia won by
three runs. England's last man in,
Fred Tate (father of Maurice), came
to the wicket with 8 needed to
win; he hit a four, then was
bowled. However, the fifth Test of
that series and the second 1907-08
Test in Melbourne were both won
by England by one wicket —close
enough finishes. The fifth 1902
Test was the occasion of George
Hirst’s famous greeting, “We’ll get
them in singles, Wilfred,” as
Rhodes, last man in, came to the


wicket with 15 runs still needed
for England to win. (Incidentally,
Trumble, one of Australia’s bowlers
that day, always claimed he had
Hirst l.b.w. with the score 9-259.
Had his appeal been upheld, two
succeeding Tests would have been
won by Australia by three runs.)
Several other Tests have been won
by close margins—7 runs (the Test
in 1882, won by Australia largely
through Spofforth’s efforts, which
produced the term “the Ashes"),
10 runs, 11 runs, 12 runs and 13
runs.
• * • •
Who were known as the Seven
Sleepers ?
Their names were Constantine,
Dionysius, John, Maximian, Mal-
chus, Martinian and Serapion, noble
youths of-Ephesos who fled in the
Decian persecution to a cave in
Mount Celion. After 250 years
they awoke, but soon died, and
their bodies were taken to Mar-
seilles irt a stone coffin, still shown
in Victor’s Church.
* * * *
(1) How many times has the
Miles Franklin literary award been
made, and to what books ? (2)
What are the necessary qualities of
the winning novel ?
(1) Two. In 1958 the first award
was won by Patrick White’s Voss,
while this year it was awarded to
Randolph Stow’s To the Islands.
The award is worth £5OO. (2) It
was established under the provK
sions of the will of authoress Miles
Franklin, who died in 1954, and is
for a novel “of the highest literary
merit and which must present Aus-
tralian life in any of its phases.”
» * * *
Some particulars about the lute
and its use ? Was it a member of
the violin family ?
The feature that distinguished
the lute from the viol family was
its pear-shaped body or back con-
necting directly to the belly or top
without intervening ribs. It was
made in a wide variety of sizes and
shapes and with few or many
strings, which were plucked by fhe
player. Some of the strings were
stopped against the fretted finger-
board while others were free. A
popular instrument of the trouba-
dours, it found a place in the first
orchestras, such as those of Striggio
and Corteccia in 1565, Balthasa-
rjni in 1581 and Peri in 1600. It was
still in use in the days of Bach and
Handel, but seldom 'after Haydn,
who refused its admission into his
classical orchestra. Bach composed
music for it,
Brief Answers
J.H.: No. The Mt.' Lyell mine
was discovered in 1883... .K.H.S.:
It is unwise to make a dog carry
extra weight to ti;y and make its
too-long body appear shorter for
show-purposes. It won’t trick a
good judge, and it may shorten the
dog’s life N.R.P.: A summing-
up of The Bulletin’s views on the
White Australia policy was pub-
lished on the Service page on April
9, 1958. A copy of that issue will
be sent on request... .W.A.N.:
What you should have is a rhyming
dictionary. Write to Angus and
Robertson, 89-95 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.... N-F.: The name
Cooroyba is not in any of our lists
of aboriginal words... .Mrs. H.R.:
No information on hand re the
matters you raise. However, The
Bulletin shares your views on the
question of the high cost of, and
the interference and harm caused
by, some of these boards. It has
elaborated on this theme time and
again B.B.: Write to Grazcos
Co-operative, Ltd., 46 Young
Street, Sydney, who will be able to
give you full particulars... .C.J.:
No further information on that
photographic exhibition; suggest
you get in touch with Melbourne
Public Library, which may be able
to help M.K.: Unable to trace
that Red Page item you referred to.
However, it is not the policy of
The Bulletin to reprint such items
except in very special circumstances.
P.McD.: Write Director, National
Art Gallery, Domain, Sydney....
W.L.P.: His address, as given in
the 1959 Who's Who, is 278 a
Remuera Road, Auckland, 5.E.2,
N.Z 8.D.8.M.: (1) To “seed”
players for a tournament means “to
modify the draw for positions by
so predistributing the names of the
superior contestants that any possi-
bility of their meeting in the early
rounds is eliminated” (Webster’s
definition). (2) Exact derivation of
the word seems to be unknown.
... .T.W.R.: William John Wills
(of Burke and Wills) was born at
Totnes, Devonshire (Eng.), on
January 5, 1834. In 1852 he emi-
grated with a brother to Victoria,
and in 1853 their father came out
and joined them....A.R.: Get in
touch with one of the antique-
shops listed in the “Pink Pages” of
Sydney’s telephone - directory
D.W.C.: The correct quotation is:
“The old order changeth, yielding
place to new”... .P.A.8.: The
three Australian V.C.-winners in the
Boer War not listed (B. 24/6/’59)
were: Lieut. Frederick William Bell
(at Brakpan on May 16,1901); Lieut.
Leslie Cecil Maygar (at Geelhout-
boom on November 23, 1901); and
Sgt. James Rogers (near Thaba
Nehu on June 15, 1901)... .M.0.T.:
The word “euphoria,” used by
Herbert Holman in “London Air-
mail” (B. 24/6/’59), derives from
the ancient Greek (eu, well; pherein,
to bear) and means “a sense of
well-being and buoyancy” (Webster’s
definition).....
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. ' No liability is under -
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
H.L.: That shearers’-cook who
talks like an Oxford don and spouts
yards of Tennyson at the drop of
a hat has been condemned to stew
in his own stew T.P.C.: That
plot was put out to grass around
the turn of last century C.S.W.:
“The Space-ship” broke-down at the
second page and is now being trans-
ported home by mail F.D.: “I
wrote this in my spare time”; well,
what about taking-up baby-show
judging or something?... .W.S.P.bo
Prithee, must thou keep on in that
strain of “wast” and “wert”?....
G.M.: The middle section is all
right; the beginning and end need
strengthening.... V.N.: “Light in
Darkness” proved too nebulous in
concept... .L.Y.: “Break, Break,
Break” has been parodied much too
often and much better 8.N.V.:
That old skinflint of a mortgage-
fancier who was led to the saved-
b'ench at a Salvo, street-meeting by
a little che-ild caused the Religious
Editor to weep bitter tears into his
rum P.D.S.': In 1500 words you
managed to pile-up two murders
and three suicides. For Pete’s
sake, keep off 6000-word who-
dunits or the place will be like a
charnel - house... .0.5. G.: “T h e
Robot Greyhound” fan off the
track R.L.J.: We hope, if ever
we meet the fellow who advises his
friends to send us such a story,
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
that we are wearing our heaviest
knuckle-dusters .W.N.H.: Can’t
you just slip some thallium to yoar
great-lover friend who boasts of
his conquests instead of writing
about him? A.D.G.: We
couldn’t possibly immortalise a
cockatoo that used such blistering
language to a district visitor
G.V.: “Ode to Nudity” has been
modestly wrapped in an opaque
envelope and sent home in disgrace.
P.G.: Those far - western
Queensland cattle-camp hombres
should, by the language you put
into their mouths, be dressed in
chaps and 10-gallon Stetsons and
be ridin’ through the chaparral
shootin’ coyotes and rattlesnakes.
D.F.P.: Nymphs, we are
reasonably sure, would have gam-
bolled ; but would fauns gibber?
“And when do We start on the champagne and spatchcock?"


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Visitors and their doings gave an extra
zest to conversation this week, and their
entertainment added a pleasant spice of
variety to the round.
It was raining outside, but an illusion
of summer warmth and brightness was
created inside David Jones’ with the
showing of the all-cotton wardrobe of
Malinda Berry, charming title-winner of
America’s “Maid of Cotton,” who flew
into Sydney late on Wednesday night.
The clothes were displayed by local
models, and described by Malinda, who
wore a full-length evening-gown of floral
cotton, which featured gumnuts in its
pattern, and was specially made for her
by the Australian Everglaze Division. The
Eastern influence was seen in many of
the garments. Blue-and-green remains a
popular combination ; wide belts and
pleats are back again ; and the waist is
where it should be. A frock is always
belted, sashed or bow-tied, and bell-
sleeves and the shirtdress are very
fashionable.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the happiest functions in honor
of the “Maid of Cotton” was the
cocktail-party given on Friday night by
U.S. Consul-General and Mrs. Frank
Waring at their Darling Point home,
which commands superb harbor views.
It must have been a welcome touch of
home for both Malinda ~and her chaper-
one, Mrs. Clarke (especially when the
a 1 most-traditional popcorn appeared),
and both seemed happy to play the part
of listeners when the conversation turned
to Australia, and particularly the earlier
days of Sydney. For non-drinking, non-
smoking Malinda plans to teach English
history later on. Guests at the party
included Lady Lloyd Jones and Mr.
David Lloyd Jones ; Mr. and Mrs. R. G.
Webster (back recently from a leisurely
trip to Japan); and representatives of
8.0.A.C. (which is flying the party on
its round-the-world journey) as well as
fashion- and fabric-designers.
# # V
A delightful luncheon was given by
Mrs. K. Inagaki, wife of the Consul-
General for Japan, at her Bellevue Hill
home last week, when the tempura-bar
was seen for the first time in Australia.
Although such a place might be as
popular and common a sight in Tokyo
and Osaka as our fish-and-chips shops
are here, a difference that impressed
guests was that its raw materials looked
just as palatable and inviting before they
were cooked. Emphasis is given (even in
the arrangement of things like putting
the green of spring-onions against the
carrots) by color and delicacy of the
food, which always includes side-dishes
of vegetables and savory-rice. The bar
is equipped with a deep-fry cooker, and
into this prawn-cutlets, squares of pork,
mushrooms and onion-rings are dropped.
The Japanese Consul’s wife, Mrs. M.
Tachibana (she was educated in the U.S.),
helped entertain guests, who were so
enthusiastic about the meal that it seems
probable tempura-bars will soon share
a place alongside the garden-barbecue
of many Sydney homes.
Elizabeth Stafford is one of the mem-
bers of Sydney University Arts Society,
whose efforts were responsible for the
very successful Jubilee Ball held last
week to commemorate its formation 40
years ago. She is the only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. E. Stafford, of Strathfield
and Kurrajong, and is combining her
Arts course at the University with a part-
time teaching-post at her old school,
P.L.C., at Croydon.
A popular theme of conversation is
the artistry of Joyce Grenfell and the
glamorous evening-gowns she wears
during her one-woman show at the
Phillip Street Theatre. She first appeared
on stage in a beautiful jewel-red satin
gown, full-length and with draped bodice
and panels. It was followed by one in
a delicate shade of lime-green, then by
one in palest blue, and for her final
number she changed into a classic black
model, which brought gasps of admira-
tion, then roars of laughter, as she coyly
quipped, “A woman can’t go wrong in
black, they say!” In cliches such as that,
her mimicry and wit delighted her audi-
ence just as much as her quick changes
of mood. With a scarf over her head she
was the girl at the football-match . . .
the woman on the bus . . . discarding it
she instantly became the arty-crafty
owner of the antique shoppe, anxiously
trying to make a sale, or the over-fussy
hostess darting frantically around a guest.
Among the first-night audience (enter-
tained after the show at a champagne-
supper at Prince’s) were Mr. and Mrs.
Alex Gerard ; Mrs. Peter Sutton ; Mr.
and Mrs. Slutzkin ; Mrs. Sylvia Quist ;
Colleen Field (and her author-husband
Morris West); Mr. and Mrs. Michael
Jones ; Pamela Eastman and Mrs. Ander-
son Stewart (one of the prettiest dresses
was the chiffon she wore under a silk
theatre-coat of amethyst).
V # V
A “Preview of Spring Fashions,” which
promises further delight for the fashion-
conscious and a lift to funds of the
Crown Street Women’s Hospital, is being
organised by the hospital’s combined
auxiliaries, with hard-working Mrs. F. J.
Blaxland at their head. During the
parade, which will be held in the Empress
Ballroom at Mark Foy’s on July 28 (at
2.30 p.m.), a range of garments from
sun-suits to satin ballgowns and glamor-
ous cocktail- and race-wear will be shown
by Melva, and Cole of California, with
new-season’s millinery by Marion
Crofton. (Reservations can be made by
phoning Mark Foy’s.)
☆ ☆ *
“It’s the nasty and unfavorable
criticisms that an actress never forgets,”
said Googie Withers feelingly when
telling a large and interested audience
something of life behind the footlights
other than the glamorous conception
many people hold of it. Among other
things, she said that in London it was
usually burnt-sugar water that was used
on stage to look like alcohol (which is
forbidden by English law); it was a
thrill to drink real wine in one of the
plays here. The actress, who was guest-
speaker at the literary-luncheon arranged
to help funds of the N.S.W. Society for
Crippled Children, wore a silver-fox wig-
hat with her grey-tweed suit. Visitors
at the luncheon (which was chaired by
Mrs. Dundas Allan) included Mrs. A. A.
Rankin, of Newcastle ; Lady Hiley and
Mrs. George Onslow.
The same cause was also helped when
the Forget-Me-Not Committee (which
assists the society) held its monthly
luncheon last week, with vice-president
Mrs. F. Groth in the chair in the absence
through illness of president Mrs. Sydney
Lennon. Guest-of-honor was Mrs. Song
Bong Lim, wife of the Consul-General
for Korea, who was accompanied by Mrs
Cade, whose husband is New Zealand
Trade Commissioner. An amusing talk
was given by Desiree McFadden on the
subject of hostessing, and she made some
very appealing points. One in particular
was the confusion guests felt when, arriv-
ing late at a function, they were intro-
duced hurriedly by the hostess to every-
one, and ruthlessly thrust into groups
already chatting happily, and with such
a flurry of names that it was impossible
to remember any of them.


MELBOURNE
A false spring, in trantalising mood,
has been trailing her lovely draperies
across a city just emerging from the Big
Freeze, with azure skies and brilliant
sunshine bringing promise of warmer
days. Along the river wattles are in
bloom, and in shops and gardens golden
daffodils and jonquils are making a
brave show. The perfume of violets and
fragile hyacinths is in the air, and
already lovely gaily-patterned silks and
cottons are appearing in the shops. But,
of course, Melburnians know that this
unusually mild spell just won’t last. A
discordant note is the apparition too
often seen —the arty-looking young thing,
apparently a disciple of Sartre, who looks
something like one of the witches from
“Macbeth,” obviously proud of her
unkempt hair, skimpy and none-too-clean
black skirt, in black stockings and
slippers. For compensation there is the
multitude of smart, well-groomed girls
who walk down Collins Street during
luncheon-hour.
#
The 2000 guests who attended the
Lord Mayor's Ball were thrilled by the
decorations. The stage had been trans-
formed into a large garden. Leafless
silver birches were set against a pale-
blue sky tinged with the red of a setting
sun. Five softly-playing fountains were
banked with many-hued cyclamens and
begonias. The brilliant red of massed
poinsettias gleamed amidst the green of
tropical plants. And over this garden
setting hovered a string of golden “flying-
saucers.”
Formal gowns predominated, with
jewel-toned taffetas and satins well to
the fore, and the Empire-line popular.
In a gown of spiced-pink pure-silk styled
on Empire-lines, the Lady Mayoress
(Lady Thomas) had the first dance with
the Governor, while the Lord Mayor
danced with the Governor’s daughter,
Mrs. Robin Byrne, whose gown of azure-
blue silk-taffeta, cut on princess-lines,
had the strapless bodice jewelled in two
shades of blue, while two floating-panels
fell to the hemline. Mrs. A. G. Rylah,
wife of the Acting Premier, wore a
bouffant gown of aqua-green tulle. Mrs.
Bernard Evans wore gold French-lace,
her daughter Margot pale-green satin-
brocades, the bodice defined with deeper-
green velvet.
One of the most striking gowns was
worn by Mrs. Ronald Marriott. Strap-
less and of white poplin, it was splashed
with scarlet roses. The skirt had fullness
at the back, with two wide bands of
scarlet running from waist to hemline.
Mrs. H. I. Fader’s blush-pink nylon-
tulle frock was heavily encrusted with
silver sequins. Mrs. A. G. Silk’s gown
of white silk-jersey was finished with a
belt of ocelot-fur. Mrs. Robert Wyllie
wore a graceful gown made from a pastel-
blue silver-spotted sari. Mrs. F. J.
Rogan, wife of the Town Clerk, wore
white re-embroidered lace mounted on
satin. Mrs. Ted Campbell’s pale-pink
satin-brocades had a wide drape at the
back of the slim skirt.
Xavier College Chapel was the setting
for the marriage of Karen Josephine,
youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. P.
Hoppe, of Camberwell, with Surgeon-
Lieutenant Terence Joseph Horgan,
R.A.N. The bride’s Empire-line gown
was of guipure-lace and white crystal-
faille. The long-sleeved bodice featured
a round neckline graduating to a deep
V at the back, and lace motifs trimmed
the skirt. The three-tier veil was caught
with a coronet of tiny white feathers,
and a prayer-book and one white rose
were carried. She was attended by her
sister-in-law, Mrs. Peter Hoppe, Patricia
Hartnett and Jillian Lambert, who wore
short frocks of white nylon-organza
mounted on gold taffeta. They carried
trails of orchids. The bridegroom is the
younger son of Mrs. J. Horgan, of
Preston, and the late Dr. J. Horgan. Dr.
David Conray was best man, and grooms-
men were Dr. lan Hopkins and Dr.
Gerard Joyce. Reception was held at
the Riversdale Golf Club, Ashburton.
Attractive Lindy Challingsworth,
younger daughter of Mrs. Nell Linton
and the late Mr. D. Challingsworth, was
educated at Tintern, and is a dental-
nurse. She will return from a holiday at
Surfers Paradise in time to attend the
Wool Ball at the Roy ale Ballroom on
August 3 —Lindy is hon. secretary of the
ball-committee, which works for the sup-
port of the Ramsay Mailer Opportunity
Club in Collingwood. John Frith has
designed the cover of the special souvenir-
programmes, which will be sold at 2s.
each, with prizes for lucky numbers.
Tickets for the ball will be limited to
1000. They may be obtained from Carol
Allen (50 6080) and Margaret Atkinson
(WA 2942). John Warlow photo.
Spontaneous applause broke out when
the curtain rose on the first scene of “The
Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr.
Hyde” at the Little Theatre. Swirling
fog dimmed a drab street by a river, and
the eerie hoot of a foghorn added a
realistic note. Fading away into the
distance, like a string of jewels, were old-
fashioned gas-lamps of the ’eighties. It
was a very cleverly constructed illusion.
Frank Thring, who recently arrived home
from an extended working-holiday in
London, played the dual parts. In the
large audience were Mrs. George
Gardiner, Mrs. H. A. Challingsworth,
Mr. and Mrs. Lou Green and their
daughters Lucille and Suzanne, Mr. and
Mrs. Geoffrey Tebbutt, Mr. and Mrs.
W. McKechnie, Roy Frost, Mrs. Edith
Kirwan, Mrs. B. de Wan, Julia Ross,
Judy Granowski, Nonie Sheehan, Alma
Pedersen, Mrs. Rupert Downes and her
granddaughter Virginia Campbell.
V V V
After the premiere of Danny Kaye’s
show, for which the Princess Theatre
was booked-out weeks ago, Mr. and
Mrs. Garnet Carroll gave a supper-
party at Chevron, which the Governor,
Sir Dallas Brooks, attended. On Tuesday
Lord Mayor Sir Frederick Thomas and
Lady Thomas gave a late-afternoon
reception at the Town Hall for the
delightful visitor.
V V
Guests arriving for the party which
celebrated the 21st birthday of Jacqueline
(Jackie) Frith were greeted by an
enormous three-color cartoon of the
hostess. In fact, it almost covered the
front-door. Jackie’s father, cartoonist
John Frith, had also decorated the house
with cartoons, the most amusing being an
outsize stork standing at the phone, and
from his beak issuing the words “I’m the
boid wot brung you, Jackie, 21 years
ago.” Mr. and Mrs. Frith entertained
more than 90 of Jackie’s friends at their
Kew home. Mrs. Frith’s frock of grey-
blue silk-organza featured a knife-pleated
skirt and tailored blouse with long, full
sleeves. Jackie chose an attractive short
frock of apricot-tinted Chantilly-lace, the
skirt caught at the hip with a nutmeg-
brown velvet bow.
☆ ☆ ☆
Patricia Rumbold, who does a session
of flower-arranging in new and exciting
ways on TV, will give a demonstration
for the Toronto Club (which is an
auxiliary working for St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital) in the drawing-room of the nurses’
home at the hospital on July 28. Tickets,
at 10s. each, are available from auxiliary-
president Mrs. John Teague (10 Berkeley
Court, Kew), or Mrs. John Ryan (17
Power Street, Hawthorn).
☆ ☆ ☆
Guests-of-honor at the Melbourne City
Council staff cabaret-ball were the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. Sir
Frederick and Lady Thomas), who were
welcomed by Town Clerk F. H. Rogan
and Mrs. Rogan, ball-committee secretary
Don Simmons, and Miss Wendy Page.
■Lady Thomas’s short frock of emerald-
green lace mounted on satin had a deep
V-neckline back and front. Mrs. Rogan’s
short frock of turquoise-blue French-lace
was worn with a matching tulle stole.


his career. I notice the name occurs
in several bush-ballads —sometimes on
level with Bold Jack Donohue —but all
versions of “Johnnie Troy” (or “Bold
Johnnie Troy”) known to me are from
North America.
Both items mentioned above are off-
shoots of the ballad-trail of “The Wild
Colonial Boy”—somewhat bafflingly
so—and I should be most grateful for
information.
Maureen Joliffe.
(Wayne, 33 Wardcliffe Road, Wey-
mouth, Dorset, England.)
The Half-caste Again
At some time or other there occurs
to every Australian novelist the idea
of writing a story about the problems of
the half-caste aborigine. Sometimes
the aborigines are living on the
fringes of a country town, and then
it is an opportunity for a sociological
novel with many villainous whites and
a great deal of delectable grime; some-
times they live far out in the Never-
Never and then we can have the
troopers, the cattlemen, the ancient
lore of the tribes, and sand, spinifex
and sin.
It has all been done once and for
all, really, by Xavier Herbert in
“Capricornia”; but inspiration cannot
be daunted by the fact that things have
been done before or we would never
have any novels about anything. And
the aboriginal problem, despite all
that has been written on it, continues,
is indeed disturbing, and continually
needs fresh light thrown upon it.
The latest to be inspired is Lyndon
Rose, whose first novel, Country of
the Dead (Angus and Robertson), is
one of the Never-Never stories. It has
everything you would expect: sand,
spinifex and sin (without the sin it
wouldn’t make a bad book for boys);
a trooper who seems a bit of a brute
in the way he handles the aborigines
but who tries his best to do his duty;
a white fossicker who is very much of
a brute, beats his half-caste son with a
camel-rope and deservedly perishes of
thirst; Old Men of the tribe who stand
statuesquely on pinnacles (as in
“Jedda”) and are useful for explaining
about kurdaitjas, tjuringas and point-
ing-the-bone; cattle-stations, Missions
and, in the centre, the half-caste boy
who doesn’t know whether he belongs
with the whites or the blacks and, in
this case, strides off manfully into the
desert at the end to be a hunter,
respected by white and black alike.
For those who haven’t read the
story before, or would like to read it
again, it is as good as any other
recapitulation of the theme, though a
bit naive; but Lyndon Rose has missed,
on the whole, the one thing that would
really make this sort of novel still
worth doing—the presentation of
characters intimately and convincingly
drawn from life.
Huxley and Mescalin
The Doors of Perception and
Heaven and Hell (Penguin Books) are
Aldous Huxley’s endeavor to describe
and analyse his experiences when
under the influence of mescalin, the
active principle of the Mexican drug,
peyotl; and he brings all his great
scholarship, wit, brilliance and obser-
vation to the business.
He makes claims for the drug which,
coming from a man of his distinction,
merit consideration. Mescalin, he
thinks, threw light on the hitherto
unknown regions of his own mind and,
indirectly, on other minds more richly
gifted in respect to vision than his
own. He says it resulted in an extra-
ordinarily heightened visual aware-
ness which gave him a “sacramental
vision of reality”; and that, therefore,
his perceptions while under the influ-
ence of the drug had a pure intrinsic
value, which presumably means that
they were absolute and unconditioned.
He himself is so sure about it that he
would like everybody to use this key
to the door of knowledge in preference
to beer, which leaves a hangover and
is apt to make the user obstreperous
and noisy, which mescalin doesn’t. He
mentions an elderly Mexican who has
taken peyotl all his life and is physi-
cally none the worse for it. Whether
he is any the wiser for it Huxley doesn’t
say; though, if Huxley is right in his
conclusions, the Mexican should by
now know more about himself and
other people than Shakspeare, Socrates
and Freud lumped together. Huxley
also mentions a religious community
which has used mescalin for genera-
tions to sharpen its spiritual percep-
tions, and it seems to follow that the
members should all by now be such
transcendental sages that they should
be able to tell us what to do about
our wives, our children, interconti-
nental missiles and other urgent prob-
lems. Huxley, however, is silent on
this aspect.
To illustrate his claim that mescalin
does actually take you out of the
workaday world of sense-perceptions
into the transcendental, he describes
his first experience of its workings:—
From the French window I walked
out under a kind of pergola covered
in part by a climbing rose-tree, in
part by laths one-inch wide with
half-an-inch of space betwen them.
The sun was shining and the
shadows of the laths made a zebra-
like pattern on the ground and
across the seat and back of a garden
chair which was standing at this
end of the pergola. That chair—
shall I ever forget it? Where the
shadows fell on the canvas
upholstery, stripes of a deep but
glowing indigo alternated with
stripes of an incandescence so
intensely bright that it was hard to
believe that they could be made of
anything but blue fire. For what
seemed an immensely long time I
gazed without knowing, even with-
out wishing to know, what it was that
confronted me. At any other time I
would have seen a chair barred with
alternate light and shade. Today the
percept had swallowed up the con-
cept. I was so completely absorbed in
looking, so thunderstruck by what I
actually saw, that I not be
aware of anything else. Garden
furniture, laths, sunlight, shadow —
these were no more than names and
notions, mere verbalisations, for
utilitarian and scientific purposes,
after the event. The event was this
succession of azure furnace-doors
separated by gulfs of unfathomable
gentian.
This is very pretty: but isn’t it much
the way in which a young man in love
would describe his first encounter with
his girl-friend?—and he wouldn’t have
to take mescalin to do it. He looks at
the girl and perceives an angel: a few
weeks later he may look at the same
girl and perceive anything but an
angel. A thing cannot both be and
not be, by the law of contradiction, so
we would have to say that there had
been some discoloration of the senses
A BAD NIGHT FOR THE
WASHING
March blows even the shadows from the
trees,
Scatters them wide beneath the lights
That pitch and toss above the resting
road.
Minds and blinds flap equally with unease.
Hands hang and sigh like tendrils from
the cot.
Lovers in big dreams perch upon the
other,
The surer to grip the night. Some despot
Threatens their sweetness with the sum-
mons of a brother.
On such a night did Esau, Capulet, Kelly,
Face judgment from a loud tree-howling
ghost
Sprung from the ironbark recesses of a
gully,
To learn perfection is quite simply lost
From life like seasons from the vine
That blooms in the yard its watery wine.
A gust of wind names all good moments
crime.
Tomorrow’s clean sheets will be twisted
on the line.
S.A.
MAX HARRIS.


OVERLAND—
Temper democratic, bias Australian," is Australia’s cheapest literary
quarterly and the one with the largest circulation. A single copy
costs only 2/6, and a yearly subscription only ten shillings (to Editor
Overland, G.P.O. Box 98a, Melbourne, C. 1.).
The current issue, No. 14, contains stories by Nancy Cato, David Martin
and others; poems by John Manifold, Geoffrey Dutton, Laurence
Collinson and others ; a delightful reminiscence of Wagga by Dame Mary
Gilmore ; an account of the results of the recent Mary Gilmore Novel
Competition ; many articles, including one on “The Family of Man’’
exhibition ; reviews by Derek Van Abbe, Roland Robinson, Russel Ward
and others ; and a discussion of Dr. Zhivago.
The previous issue (still available) contained the full text of Bill Harney’s
famous radio talk, Harney’s War.
and that the girl was probably neither
an angel nor a devil. The young man
has no knowledge of the girl; all he
has knowledge of is his conception;
but Huxley claims that he has know-
ledge of a deeper reality because he
sees his chair as blue fire. A metho.-
drinker could just as reasonably make
the same claims for his pink snakes.
But perhaps I have misunderstood
him. His idea is very closely argued,
he covers an immense amount of
ground and I found it difficult to
follow him. Perhaps a dose of mescalin
would help me.
M. G. S.
Essays on Poets
In Vision and Rhetoric, Studies in
Modern Poetry (Faber), G. S. Fraser,
Lecturer in English at Leicester Uni-
versity, collects his papers on Yeats,'
Pound, Eliot, Cummings, Stevens,
Graves, Auden, MacNeice, Empson,
Spender, Dylan Thomas and others.
Fraser is young enough to have read
T. S. Eliot as an adolescent, and it is
interesting to see how his feelings about
these writers correspond with those of
the reviewer—except where they do
not. He has a clear account of the
structure of Pound’s cantos, which he
considers “an objective failure”;
although:—
In the perspective of history, his
errors will seem incidental; his epic,
his vision, his confession, his dis-
covery of himself through his
exploration of history, of humility
through the assertion of pride, of
truth through persistence in error,
these will seem typically and broadly
human, and in their pathos noble
and profound.
He notices the fragmentary quality
of “The Waste Land,” and considers
that Eliot’s main contribution to
younger poets was his conversational
tone; and he very shrewdly points-out
that just because Eliot feels depressed
it doesn’t mean that the world is past
saving:—
For, if we were reading “The
Waste Land” not as a poem but as
a tract or a sermon we might be
inclined to accuse him of rigging his
evidence.
His guarded few pages on E. E,
Cummings and Stevens are as vague
or as indecipherable as their subjects,
except for a whopper, where he says
that Cummings’s “Poems” is “a volume
of 468 pages and can be read straight
through like an American novel of the
1920’5”; or where he talks of “one’s
continuing pleasure and admiration
while reading” Stevens’s huge collec-
tion.
In the rest of the essays he is polite
to Graves, debates Auden in three
goes and in a final essay on new
operators, “Contemporary Poetry and
the Anti-Romantic Idea,” mentions
Philip Larkin, Donald Davie and
Jonathan Price.
R. McC.
Reviewed Briefly
By Appointment Only: Lucie Hey-
mann (Heinemann). Begins with a
Parisian woman psychoanalyst admit-
ting to herself in a dream that her
husband loves another woman and
ends by her finding herself another
man (a much better one) to love. It is
written with sophistication and grace,
revealing a world where principles are
tested by intense and bitter feelings,
* * * *
The Tangerine: Christine de Rivoyre
(Rupert Hart-Davis). One of those
insouciant novels about “l’amour”
which makes one wonder whether the
French are real people. Severine, vital
and beautiful, cooks enormous
omelettes in the early hours of the
morning. She is “made hungry by
love.” Her sleepy, frail brother and
sister drift down to join her and they
happily toss-off 28 bottles of cham-
pagne to celebrate the 28th birth-
day of a Spanish duke who is staying
at their hotel. There are a richness
of decor and an eccentricity of charac-
ter about the story which might enter-
tain, but only if one exercises a willing
suspension of disbelief.
* * * *
The Secret of Luca: Ignazio Silone
(Cape). An old Italian peasant returns
to his native village after 40 years’
jail for a crime he didn’t commit,
A young politician, whose whole life
has been influenced by the old man’s
without the two ever having met, can-
not rest until he has found out why
the old man allowed himself to be
convicted when he could easily have
proved his innocence. Since the old
man refuses to talk about it, the young
man has to uncover the secret alone.
It turns out to be compounded of a
classically pure love and sheer human
goodness, colored with visions and
peasant superstitions. One gathers that
such goodness as the old man’s is
resented by society as much as any
murder or robbery. But, though the
story is unfolded with grace and skill
and contains Silone’s usual engaging
picture of Abruzzi life and people,
the difficult elements of the secret are
not made convincing enough to carry
the final irony.
* * * *
The Comrade: Cesare Pavese
(Owen). A Camus character with a
Hemingway style describes his politi-
cal awakening in the Italy of the late
’thirties. He contrasts the amoral
blankness of his life in Turin (serving
in the family shop, playing the guitar
for friends and making love all night)
with the purposeful awareness of his
life in Rome after he falls-in with a
group of class-conscious workers
(distributing leaflets, talking in cafes,
playing the guitar for friends and
making love all night). But the very
innocence of his search for truth finds
out the basic political issues of the
time and finally gets him into the sort
of trouble that hardens his new beliefs.
The externals of lower middle-class
Italian life come vividly out of the
clean, monosyllabic prose.
* * * *
In Two Minds: Mary Cecil (Hamil-
ton). A first novel with the rather
unpleasant theme of a woman who
became too obsessed with the occult.
Claire Hammond was a musician who
played in a band, shared the common-
place life of those around her to the
extent of using the same dressing-
room as the male organist and the
conductor, but who so believed in
“spirits” that she became completely
dominated by the “guide,” Peter, who
sent her “spirit”-messages. Her
recovery from mental breakdown and
her marriage to ordinary, and kindly.
Edmund was achieved only after she
had looked for help from mediums,
healers and psychiatrists.


CITY MUTUAL
LIFE
Australia-wide Progress Reported
Salient features of the 80th Annual Report & Revenue Account for the year ended 31st
December, 1958, and Balance Sheet at that date of The City Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited, to which particular reference was made by the Chairman of Directors, Mr. Henry
Morrissey, during his address at the Annual General Meeting held in Sydney, 13th May, 1959
• NEW BUSINESS 9,119 Policies were issued with Sums Assured of £20,658,589.
• POLICIES IN FORCE now total 147,014 with Sums Assured of £146,389,808 to which
are attached Reversionary Bonuses of £17,518,786.
• ASSETS have been increased to £42,904,779.
• INTEREST RATE earned was £5.2.4 per centum after taxes.
• SURPLUS reached the record figure of £1,808,722.
• BONUSES ARE SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASED AGAIN for the 7th time in 8 years,
after making provision for a further allocation to General Reserve.
• ENTRY INTO THE FIRE AND GENERAL INSURANCE FIELD the Society has
purchased the whole of the issued capital of Perpetual General Insurance & Guarantee
Company Limited.
• THE FEDERATION OF CO-OPERATIVE HOUSING SOCIETIES OF VICTORIA
has chosen The Mutual Life to underwrite its .Housing Societies’ Mortgage
Protection Scheme, which provides for repayment of mortgage debt on death of the
breadwinner.
TilC
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
V
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Incorporated in N.S. IV. iByB
HEAD OFFICES:
N.S.W.: City Mutual Building, 60-66 Hunter St., Sydney.
Telephone: 8W2021.
Q’LAND: City Mutual Building, 307 Queen St., Brisbane.
Telephone: 31-2371.
W.A.: City Mutual Building, 62 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth. Telephone: 23-1451.
VIC.; City Mutual Building, 459 Collins St., Melbourne.
Telephone: M 82561.
S./L: City Mutual Building, 118 King William St. #
Adelaide. Telephone: W 7031.
TAS.: City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
Telephone: 2-2504.
