

The Bulletin
The Green - and - gold Country— p °ge * *
Wednesday, February 17, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Ilegistered in Australia for transmission l>y post as a newspaper.
" Poor Alfie does so feel the loneliness of command !"


WRITE FOR
PROFIT!
If TOP have the urue to write, you ran
learn to write "Swecessfwl Stories, Articles,
W ritten Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars, Verse,
etc. There is a large, and constant demand
for well-written work.
STOTT’S Training will provide you with the
assistance and knowledge of highly-qualified and
experienced Instructors.
Mrs. J, Penna gained £7Q for Short Stories
sold while still engaged on her Course.
Mrs. L. King was paid £2l for her sth story.
What these students have done. YOU can
do. If you would like information about
our Courses in Story Writing, Freelance
Journalism, etc., post the Coupon today-.
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh St., Sydney; 299 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON .
To STOTT’S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE <S.B. 460)
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, lot us find it for you —fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE RAIDS ON SINGAPORE HARBOR
"D ONALD McKIE’S The Heroes
(Angus and Robertson) is the story
of the two incredibly daring raids which
were made from Australia on Japanese
shipping in Singapore Harbor during
World War II when not only Singa-
pore itself but all the islands and all
the waters on the way were still in
Japanese hands. The first raid was
called Operation Jay wick, the second
Rimau, and in both of them the parti-
cipants were a mixed force of British
and Australian servicemen, working in
the utmost secrecy.
Little has been published about the
first raid, which was a triumphant
success; hardly anything, and most of
that apparently inaccurate, about the
second, which was a disaster: so that
Ronald McKie, besides having a
magnificent story to tell, is able to add
a good deal to our knowledge of two
episodes of the w ar which should never
be forgotten. It would be impossible
and absurd to try to pick any single
feat of adventure which might be
claimed as the greatest in World
War II: but certainly nothing could
surpass these two—especially Jay wick,
with its success in Singapore Harbor
and the safe return of the raiders
against such fearful odds. Their own
estimates of their chance of return
varied from an optimistic one chance
in two. a conservative one-in-three and
a more probable one-in-ten.
The story begins to take-on its
proper atmosphere of mystery', excite-
ment and tension (and even, at this
early stage, humor) when, after McKie
has done some preliminary stating of
the facts and setting of the scene, one
of the Singapore raiders, Lieutenant
H. E. Carse, takes part in a raid on
Townsville under the leadership of
Captain Sam Carey, who is now Pro-
fessor of Geology at the University of
Tasmania but who was then with Z
Special Unit at Cairns. Carey had
notions about a raid on Rabaul (which
the movement of the war subsequently
made unnecessary) and Townsville was
a rehearsal for it. It was something
more than a rehearsal, too. for they
wanted to see if they could enter a
harbor undetected by a reasonably
alert enemy, so they did not warn the
naval or military authorities that they
were coming and took a considerable
risk of being mistaken for Japanese
raiders and fired-on.
But the one seaman who did spot
and challenge them while they were
prowling round Townsville Harbor
in their canoes, attaching (harmless)
limpet-mines to the shipping, accepted
their assurance that they were “just
paddling around” this sort of
incident, in infinitely more hair-raising
circumstances, was to be repeated in
Singapore Harbor—and the two
canoes succeeded in fixing their limpets
onto two destroyers, the Katoomba, a
Dutch ship and two American Liberty
ships. On their return to Cairns the
raiders, for good measure, raided their
own headquarters, booby-trapped the
latrines and burgled the adjutant's safe.
But then there was Jay wick itself,
and not much joke about that.
Fourteen men—Lyon. Davidson.
Page, Carse, McDoweli, Young. Cain,
Falls, Jones, Huston, Marsh. Berryman.
Morris, Crilley—set out from Cairns
in an old Japanese fishing-boat to
raid the Japanese shipping in Singa-
pore Harbor. Major Lyon was the
leader; Lieutenant Davidson his
second; and Carse was captain of the
fishing-boat, the Krait. The Krait was
to hole-up somewhere near Singapore
—actually it just kept cruising about—-
and the final attack would be made by
three canoes, two men in each—Lyon
and Huston, Davidson and Falls, Page
and Jones.
First they sailed round to Exmouth
Gulf, nearly being shipwrecked on an
uncharted reef, then out to the Indian
Ocean and the enemy. As much of
their gear as possible was of Japanese
make, so that it would not betray them
if it fell overboard —but one of their
strictest rules was that nothing must
fall overboard: even toilet - paper
could warn the enemy that there was
a strange ship about. As they drew
near to the Indies they stained their
bodies brown and put on sarongs. They
put up a Japanese flag, carefully stain-
ing it with oil and dirt first so that it
would look natural —and they knew
very well what sailing under the
enemy’s flag meant if they were
captured. The leader had cyanide
tablets, one for each man, for that
eventuality; though at one stage the
officers decided that, if in danger of
being caught, they would shoot their
men first and then themselves. They
also had the Krait wired so that they
could blow it up at a moment’s notice.
Their first real peril came in the
Lombok Strait, twelve miles long,
between Lombok and Little Bali,
which they took as less likely to be
closely-patrolled than the well-known
Sunda Strait. An enemy searchlight,
its base really too far away to sight
them, swept over their little ship; and
what was even worse, since they
feared they would be found there in
daylight, they could not make head-
way against the current.
But they got through; sailed on
through heat and squalls and a rare
visitation of butterflies; ran cheek-by-
jowl with a big junk for an hour or
two; were nearly run-down by a
Japanese tanker in a squall; watched
a Japanese plane fly over them in
Temiang Strait on its way to Singa-
pore; and so. in increasing peril every'
moment —“Now with black-haired
Jones up the mast, looking more
Japanese than a Japanese, they were
in the narrow strait between many
reefs and low dark islands embroidered
with palm, and some with native huts
in brown lines and clusters just back
from the sea edge. Now, too, the sails
began, and for the next five hours they
often had to alter course to keep away
from native craft” —they made their
way to Pompong Island, 50 miles from
Singapore, where they thought to
make their base for the canoe-raid and
the subsequent rendezvous with the
Krait.
But Pompong, though they landed
there and buried some food-supplies
(and found a rusty British Army water-
bottle and two clips of .303 ammuni-
tion) seemed to have too many people
about and too many rips and reefs;
so, after they had been inspected from
(Continued on page 58)


,
WSSiSffS
mmm
11
KSTHISMBSt
m
A
-0Z
II
II
m
m
AIR CONDITIONER
mm
-m
IMH it!
r
m ■
<2L
iininysr-
**<*«:**
Sw
*»rtW
iSitolSS*
i£Illi&$«
tow
*s*r*
TO", 12", 16" OSCILLATING FANS
Swishes a cooling, refreshing breeze
back and forth across the room.
• New-design blades give greater air move-
ment for extra cooling.
• Reliable motor is whisper-quiet.
A few shillings weekly!
ROOM AIR CONDITIONER
Keeps you cool and com-
fortable In home and office
even on the hottest days.
Wonderful range of room air
conditioners in all sizes to suit
all requirements.
• Automatic operation.
• Easily installed.
EASY TERMS or special lease-
ing plan available.
Sbw A few shillings weekly!
COOL
WITH
WESTINGHOUSE
mm
V
m
mn rViTfll
* -
■: ■■ ■
Mm
1 H \
n:
r
m
"SUPREME 120" REFRIGERATOR
New features for easier food storage and preparation.
• Exclusive “Economiser” one sixth h.p. sealed unit
(guaranteed five years) gives you extra reserve power
for fast freezing on evei\ the hottest day • Push-button
defrosting • Big freeze chest • Roll-out shelves.
Seven beautiful models. Left hand opening doors at
no extra cost if required. A few shillings weekly.
Don’t let hot weather get you down. It’s
so easy to be cooler with Westinghouse.
For a few shillings weekly you can have
the world-famous products of Westing-
house serving you day and night.
Westinghouse offers you something
extra-built-in long life quality-guaran-
teed performance - speedy, efficient
service - prices to suit your pocket.
Ask your retailer, now for Wesiinghouse
you CAN BE SURE., if its
Wfestinghouse
Post coupon now!
EM6B3
“WESTINGHOUSE” joynton Avenue, Waterloo, N.S.W.
Piease send me details of (please tick):
□ Refrigerators. □ Air Conditioners. □
Fans.
Your Name.
Address


The Bulletin
Wednesday , Feb. 17, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4176
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
STILL ENEMY No. 1
TN recent months there has been
|A evidence of a growing awareness of
the threat of inflation. Federal
Ministers have spoken of it, though
they’ve shown no eagerness to do any-
thing else about it. Premier Reece, of
Tasmania, speaking in particular of the
“arbitrary” way in which the 28 per
cent. margins-increase has been
applied, has said that the method
could lead to Australia being priced
out of world markets, and that the
greatest task ahead of the country “is
to take a firm grip upon all the
elements likely to add further inflation
to the national economy.”
Similar concern has been expressed
by J. B. Fuller, chairman of the N.S.W.
Country party, who believes that
Federal and State Governments should
summon a meeting of leaders in
industry, commerce, finance and the
trade-unions “to tackle the problem of
cost-inflation.”
On Thursday even Prime Minister
Menzies was prompted to criticise “the
new margins doctrine,” referring to it
as a “strange and dangerous concep-
tion,” particularly when applied to
higher-salary earners.
The attitude of the general public
towards inflation is one that varies with
the years. Shortly after the war there
was a fairly widespread feeling that “a
little inflation” might be a very good
thing; that stability meant stagnation
and that gently-rising prices were a
stimulant to the economy. This feel-
ing was probably conditioned by
memories of depression-economics and
on the stifling effect falling prices had
on the economy in the early 1930’5.
For a few years the gentle stimulant
was widely approved. Its real effects
were concealed by war-time controls
carried-over into peace-time. There
was overfull employment and goods
virtually sold themselves, either at
“controlled” prices or on an under-the-
counter basis. Wages were rising under
the dual influences of shortage-induced
above-award payments and periodica]
cost-of-living adjustments. Anyone
who suggested that to be of any lasting
value wage-increases must be geared
to greater productivity was written-ofl
as a knocker with no faith in his own
country or, at the very least, one whose
thinking was behind the times.
T>Y the early 1950’s people were
beginning to have doubts about the
therapeutic qualities of the gentle
stimulant and to wonder whether it
was perhaps, after all, a habit-forming
drug. By 1953, with the cost-cat
chasing its wage-tail more and more
furiously and getting giddier and
giddier in the process, even the most
obstinate were beginning to admit the
danger. Trade-union secretaries were
still trying to convince themselves and
the courts that wages were in some
way a component of profits and not
of costs, but housewives and wage-
earners, watching prices jump after
each quarterly increase in the basic
wage, were beginning to dread rather
than welcome the three-monthly rises,
(In the four terms August, 1951, to
May, 1952, the quarterly adjustments
for Sydney were 135., 145., 9s. and 7s.
respectively.) When the Arbitration
Court decided to suspend quarterly
adjustments of the basic-wage there
was a general feeling of relief which
was even shared at first by N.S.W.
Labor Premier Cahill, though he later
reversed his opinion to conform with
Trades Hall policy.
The quarterly adjustments were not,
of course, in themselves the cause of
inflation. They were at once a
symptom of inability to control it and
a factor which fed it. And. for a time,
they symbolised inflation in the public
mind and their suspension had a
sobering and steadying effect on the
economy. But not for long.
Between 1948 and 1953 the price-
level as reflected in the Commonwealth
Statistician’s C-series index rose by an
average of 15.5 per cent, each year. In
the two years following the suspension
of automatic adjustments it steadied
to three per cent, and just under one
per cent. In the last four years it has
been round about five per cent., but
a higher figure may be expected when
last year’s basic-wage rise and margins-
judgment affect the index.
Wage-levels are still rising without
any correlation with productivity, but
so far there is still full employment and
a general appearance of prosperity.
WHO loses? Among those who
certainly aren’t losing are the
politicians, State and Federal, who
may inveigh a little against the
evils of inflation, but who have
taken care to provide themselves
with built-in safeguards against it s
having any serious effect on them,
selves. And, being personally
cushioned against economic bufferings
they are naturally not so sensitive to
its effects elsewhere. There are plenty
of top-rank bureaucrats, too, for whom
creeping inflation holds no fears, as
they blithely accept a 28 per cent,
increase in their “margins”—a wind-
fall that was by no stretch of the
imagination intended for them when
margins were first brought into the
wage-fixing machinery.
The . trade-union movement has no
current qualms about inflation. It
may be reasonably easy to convince
an intelligent trade-union official that
in the long-run his members won’t be
any better off. But it is almost impos-
sible to persuade him to preach this
doctrine to his members when other
trade-unions are hopping-in for their
cut. And, being human, they aren’t
reluctant to jump on the bandwagon
to show what they can do for their
members, especially when they have
the example of the politicians and tall
poppies of the public service to spur
them on.
Labor-Socialists don’t mind. The
trend plays right into their hands.
They are able to raise a great songan-
dance about high profits and soaring
prices and to plug their favorite theme,
price-fixing, as a panacea for all
economic ills. And at the same time
they see the financial power of the
States weakened by inflation and their
eventual elimination brought a step
nearer.
A PART from pensioners and others
of fixed incomes, and to those
who are saving to buy homes
(these might see a whole year’s
savings vanish through a 5 p.c. rise
in building-costs) the ones to whom
the falsity of the present wave of “pros-
perity” is brought home most forcibly
now are the primary producers and
those manufacturers who are trying to
build-up or hold overseas markets. It
is becoming increasingly apparent that
our expanding secondary industries
can only continue to grow if they can
sell a bigger proportion of their output
outside Australia, and to do this it is
essential that costs should be kept
down to competitive levels. In the
past there has been little in common
between primary producers and
manufacturers in this country. Today
the farmers and export-manufacturers
have a common interest in keeping
costs down. Possibly their joint efforts
may be effective in stirring to action
the Governments which have so fat
been singularly inactive towards this
very frustrating economic problem.
And their immediate concern about
inflation is only a year or two ahead i
of what could become a general
alarm.


AN AWKWARD QUESTION
“Now then, Robert, before you leave for foreign parts —what are you going to do about Junior?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Back to the Bench
With his appointment to the Chief
Justiceship of New South Wales, Dr.
Evatt seems to have come to anchor in
a calm and sheltered haven in which he
will no more be subject to the political
storms which have surrounded him for
20 years and more past. It is unlikely,
at his age, that he would again consider
leaving the Bench for the political arena.
After what Mr. Bolte in Melbourne
described as “the rock-bottom in political
skulduggery” in the Labor movement,
and even Labor supporters have been
apt to describe as a “test of strength”
between Mr. Heffron and the Attorney-
General of New South Wales, Dr. Evatt
was invited to accept the position of
Chief Justice following weeks of fierce
contest in N.S.W. Labor politics.
Dr. Evatt’s ability as a lawyer or a
judge has not been in question. What
has been in question, however, is the fact
that the appointment was not decided,
as it should have been, on the advice
of the Attorney - General, the only
man in the Cabinet qualified to advise
and entitled to advise ; but the decision
to offer Dr. Evatt the post was forced
on the Government with determina-
tion by the outside organs of the party
which have no responsibility whatever
for the administration of justice in New
South Wales and which in fact often tend
to flout the law.
The ascent of Dr. Evatt to the Bench
leaves Federal Labor little better off
than it was before unless it can find
immediately some sort of genius in its
own ranks who will re-unite the party.
All it seems to have, however, are out-
worn political war-horses and dis-
credited politicians like Calwell and
Ward more noted for their doctrinaire
brainstorms than for statesmanlike
sagacity.
The usual intrigues incidental to the
election of a leader of Federal caucus
are already in full swing, with pressures
exercised from all directions, sec-
tarianism rife and vote-buying promises
being thrown round like confetti.
There is some rumor abroad that
Alderman Jensen, Lord Mayor of
Sydney, might be the “Man from
Galway,” but even if he were to go into
the House and have the support of every
man-Jack of the caucus, it would be an
appreciable time before he could aspire
to leadership; and in the interval the
intriguing factions probably would tear
each other to bits.
Fraud and Sham
The final revelations by the Congres-
sional inquiry into the abuse of TV and
radio in the United States, issued last
week, made startling reading, and show
how needful is a decent control of the
air by statute.
The first disclosures of rigged quiz-
contests, canned applause and
“payola” handed-out under the lap to
disk-jockeys to play and promote
records were nothing to what the com-
mittee had to say in general, though the
first instalment was enough to drive all
quiz-sessions off the air and make canned
applause a thing of memory.
The findings accuse certain advertisers
of “ruthlessly exploiting many persons
in all walks of life,” including a mem-
ber of a university faculty, a minister of
religion, a director of a national business
concern, professional women and “even
children” for their private gain.
The committee found that children had
been ordered to tell their parents that
they hadn’t been coached for these
shows, and when the matter was
examined before a grand jury some of
those involved attempted to coerce con-
testants in quizzes to commit perjury.
The committee found that many of the
abuses rose from the fact that stations
during the peak-hours handed-over con-
trol of their programmes to programme-
networks, and that these in turn virtually
transferred their authority to advertisers
acting as sponsors. It proposes the
drastic step that networks supplying pro-
grammes should be licensed as well as
radio- and TV-stations, subject to with-
drawal of the licence on proof that they
have placed deceptive material with
licensed stations, surrendered control of
a programme to anybody save a licensed
station, or entered into any arrange-
ment which would prevent a station from
acting in the public interest.
Some legislators are proposing to go
further, and already one bill is before
the House of Representatives providing
for two years’ jail and a 5000-dollar find'
for rigging quiz-sessions. A further pro-
posal suggests that stations and
programme-networks be made respon-
sible under the criminal law for fraudu-
lent programmes in general. ,
It all should make the Australian pub-
lic wary of the awful imported U.S.
Westerns which are fast distorting the
minds of young Australians to believe
that some of the most cowardly criminals
and gunmen on record are heroes of
fantastic virtue and prowess.
My Rich Lady
(From "Collins Street”]
J. C. Williamson’s hope to open “My
Fair Lady” in Sydney in May with the
principals now playing in Melbourne,
and they are looking-over in London
possible successors for them in the Mel-
bourne production.
The show passed its first year at Her
Majesty’s on January 24 and shows no
sign of wavering ; box-office takings over
the holiday-season have, in fact, been
higher than ever, since an extra weekly
matinee was added to cope with the
family-parties. The experienced J.C.W.
prophets expect the Melbourne season
to last over next August, but it may
get into its third year. It will not be
taken off while business is booming.
The factor that may militate against
“My Fair Lady” putting out a third-
year sign in Melbourne is the imminent
opening by Garnet Carroll, at the
Princess, of “The Music Man,” one of
the biggest Broadway hits of the decade.
The formation of a second company
makes theatrical history in Australia.
Pressure from Sydney- is one of the
reasons for the enterprise, and The Firm
is presenting the originals of the Mel-
bourne production to avoid any sugges-
tion of a No. 2 company. The second
“My Fair Lady” co. was not' formed in
the U.S. (in Chicago) until the Broad-
way company had put in two years’
run, and although it has been on deck
at Drury Lane for two years, a provin-
cial company has not been formed in
England.
Williamson’s plan to send the Sydney
company to Brisbane and New Zealand,
and the Melbourne company to Adelaide
and Perth. They reckon the stage of
Hobart’s lovely old Theatre Royal will
not hold it. Runs of six months are ex-
pected in both Adelaide and Brisbane.
Seats for “My Fair Lady” are expen-
sive—the best seats on other than special
dates are 335. in Melbourne. Americans,
of course, always insist on stiff prices
when they have anything worth-while to
sell, but, aside from that, it is a very
costly production, with an enormous
backstage staff, an augmented orchestra,
and the largest wardrobe Williamson’s
have ever had to assemble ; they had
to build a large new dressing-room to
pour the girls into some costumes.
About 700,000 have seen the show in
Melbourne ; Drury Lane recently wel-
comed the millionth customer. They
have been coming in chartered aircraft
from Tasmania, special trains from
Sydney—one fully booked ran .last week
—and by buses from Adelaide. The
takings are not publicised, but Lerner
and Loewe, who added the Words and
Music to “Pygmalion,” are reported to
be so overwhelmed by the flow of money
they have tried to lose themselves in
new works.
George Bernard Shaw’s estate has
collected £250,000 in royalties so far,
and it will receive a substantial share
of the £700,000 the film-rights are ex-
pected to bring.
Menzies Intervenes
Mr. Menzies’s criticism of the new
doctrine of margins is a welcome change
from the neutrality hitherto displayed
by the Commonwealth Government.
Reactions from the last margins decision
are so ominous that it is difficult to see
how the Commonwealth Government
can fail to assert itself.
It didn’t need the Prime Minister to
make clear the “damaging consequences”
of all-round margins increases, especially
when it is taken for granted in the
highest public-service circles that be-
cause a metal-trades worker is awarded
an extra marginal pay of three or four
shillings a day, higher-bracket public
servants should immediately, as a matter
of logic, get another £9OO a year or
thereabouts.
The leaders of the big basic unions,
especially those with Communist leader-
ship, care nothing for the effects of the


rises which seem to be imminent all
round as a result of this doctrine. Not
content with the margins-rises, a lot of
them, acting through the A.C.T.U., are
demanding not only further basic-wage
rises of 245. a week on top of the 15s.
increase granted last June and the
28 per cent, margins-lift in Novem-
ber, but reduction of working-hours,
a move in which in New South
Wales they are being supported by the
State Government, which actually is
introducing the 35-hour week in the
State mines as an excuse for the forcing
of the same hours on private producers
of coal.
All railway departments are faced
with the problem of passing on millions
in freights and fares to pay for margins
alone.
The rise in the cost-of-living threatens
the stability of all the Budgets for the
year, and the Commonwealth has been
forced, on the facts, to promise increases
in loan allocations to the States. Their
demands for extras total £8.5 million
for State and Federal loan works and
housing, the excuse put forward by Mr.
Heffron being “the effects of basic-wage
and margins increases which had greatly
worsened the position of State and
municipal authorities,” the indications
being (he said) that costs had risen 4
per cent, in the first half of this financial
year following the increase in the basic
wage last June, and that they wojuld rise
even more in the second six months of
the year—probably 5 per cent. The price
of steel has recently risen 5 to 7 per cent.
Of course, not only loan allocations
are affected. Mr. Heffron was only
uttering a platitude when he declared
that nobody had contemplated when the
tax-grant formula was agreed to last
June that there would be an increase
of 28 per cent, in wage-margins during
this year alone. The rises will be re-
flected in 1961-62 tax-grants, but in the
current and next year substantial funds
would have to be found to meet wage-
and salary-increases.
Mr. Bolte estimates that his work-costs
will increase by £6 million and that Vic-
toria’s borrowing programme next year
will have to rise by £l5 million, while
Mr. Nicklin of Queensland declared that
the Commonwealth’s decision to increase
postal charges together with wage-mar-
gins increases, had completely nullified
what the Premiers’ Conference last June
had thought to be a perfectly satisfactory
agreement. His estimate of the cost of
the decisions to Queensland as a State
would be another £2 million this financial
year and £4 million next year.
This, of course, takes no account of
Miat might happen to private industry.
If businesses can accept the new rises it is
°nly because they can pass them on to
the consumer in an inflationary spiral.
The Pinch in Rates
Melbourne City Council, which has
always been the snag in proposals to
ro °f the Jolimont railway-yards, has
now decided unanimously to get an
ex Pert report on it. This is not due to
a rash of enlightenment among the
mature and hitherto prudent councillors.
The reason for the sudden enthusiasm
for (as it has been in the past for the
rejection of) the project is economic.
It has been necessary for the council
to provide off-street parking, and the
latest acquisition for a car-park was an
old building in Little Collins Street that
brought £235,000.
The council is flush with parking-fees,
with the knowledge of satisfactory deals
on the Eastern and Western Market sites,
and, of course, with some return from
the car-park sites it has bought; but
the rates are beginning to suffer. On
these car-parks there are no rates for
the council.
According to Professor Brian Lewis,
Dean of the Faculty of Architecture at
Melbourne University, the railyard-'
tracks are out-dated, should be torn-up
and relaid parallel before they are then
completely roofed in first-class style.
Dozens of proposals have been made
since the roofing of the yards was first
seriously considered in the depression
of the ’thirties, some by experienced
engineers and architects, but most of
them have hedged at the roofing of the
entire area, which is claimed to be equal
to six city blocks.
Professor Lewis, who was formerly
chief architect of the Great Western
Railway in Britain, estimates the build-
ing development that has followed the
roofing of the railway-yards in Montreal
as probably the biggest in the Empire.
Small schemes, nibbling around the
edges of Jolimont, may debar a big
development.
Foretaste of the Millenium
The foretaste of the millenium to be
handed to the electors when —and more
fortunately “if”—the now leaderless
legion of the Federal caucus ever attains
power under command of Mr. Gough
Whitlam is scarcely more inspiring than
that offered by Mr. Arthur Calwell, who
already has promised to pluck the fowl
of capitalism and introduce complete
Socialism.
Mr. Whitlam, one of the younger-set,
held up as an ultimate white hope
for the leadership, promised in a telecast
over, the Sydney “Herald’s” session
“Comment” that Labor would “guide
investment when in power to provide
employment or assist local industry.”
Then he admitted, in reply to a ques-
tion by George Baker, his interlocutor,
that “people who didn’t like it [i.e., his
system] would say it was a ‘control’.”
He admitted that it would be “direct,”
and involve so much change of method
that it would call for alteration of the
Constitution to “at least relieve some of
the brutality of taxation and import-
controls, which are the only things the
Government can do now to control
inflation or the economy or interest rates
or the banks.”
This, of course, is quite different from
Mr. Calwell’s succinctly stated summary
of Labor policy, which is an accurate one
according to the Labor platform. Per-
haps Whitlam belongs to a different
Labor party from Calwell, but whatever
he belongs to he should have learned
that not he but the shabby juntas behind
the scenes declare plans and expect
implicit obedience even from Prime
Ministers.
What the Labor platform says that Mr.
Whitlam is going to do when he achieves
power is to “clothe the Federal Parlia-
ment with unlimited powers and with the
duty and authority to create States” with
only delegated powers, and abolish the
Senate. This, of course, would establish
the Labor majority in the House of
Representatives as the instrument of the
same dictatorship which forced the
recommendation for the appointment of
Dr. Evatt on the N.S.W. Government,
and which would be the de facto and
unelected Government of the Common-
wealth.
This is only the first step, and the next
is the introduction of those measures of
“guidance” which Mr. Whitlam mentions
as likely to be called controls —and
“direct” controls. They include national-
isation of banking “monopolies,” shipping,
all radio-services, television and sugar-
refining.
If the experience of socialisation in
England goes for anything, the
“brutality” of the present system of taxa-
tion —rates which are the lowest in the
British-speaking world for the classes Mr.
Whitlam is particularly interested in—
would be nothing to those needed to keep
the nationalised industries going. The
platform provides for “uniform income-
tax imposed by the Commonwealth
exclusively.”
A glimpse at the measures to overcome
the need for “brutal” import-controls can
be had in the platform’s promise of
“import-embargoes in favor of Australian
industries,” and all its measures are to be
accompanied by control of prices, direc-
tion and control of credit-sources by the
Commonwealth Bank operating directly
under the Commonwealth Parliament —
which would mean under the control of
the A.L.P. Executive.
These measures are to be run with
the five-day working-week, with progres-
sive reduction to 30 hours a week, com-
bined with “legislative enactment of
standards of wages and working-hours”
by the A.L.P. controlled by one House
of Parliament at Canberra, equal pay for
the sexes, and the “creation of an
efficient inspectorate acting in co-opera-
tion with trade-union officials to police
and enforce industrial Acts and awards
and amendment of the Crimes Act to
wipe out clauses dealing with political
and industrial offences.”
All this seems to promise a measure
of “guidance” at about the same level
as the Kremlin’s and under the same
form of government, and our alliances,
would follow the Moscow trend and
markets switched from Europe to Asia.
The Kremlin set-up would be complete
even to an “Izvestia” or a “Pravda,” for
Mr. Whitlam is certain that if Labor
attains power “by 1970 a national news-
paper would be operating in competition
with privately-owned newspapers.”
No doubt edited by Dan Curtin and
Leslie Haylen.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Tn the formerly well-presented A.B.C.
“Morning Melodies,” between some-
thing by Sibelius and some recorder-
accompanied carols: “Get an old oniqn ;
plant it in a bottle of water and thereby
ensure fresh young tops for salads.” —
“Cocuswood.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Slip-Point”: I’ve watched Shield and
Test matches at the ’Gabba, Brisbane. I
admire the way the umpires are dressed
as identical twins ; I appreciate the way
they walk out before the game com-
mences —they keep step with a precision
which is admirable; they talk about
something, and by the earnestness with
which they speak to each other it must
be of vital importance. I like the sedate
actions as they go about their duties ;
they have a peculiar little run when they
have to move quickly which must surely
be copyright and go under the title of
“Umpires’ Trot.” I’ve only seen their
sedate demeanor broken once. That was
at a Shield match a few months back.
There was next to no warning ; a sudden
storm pelted rain. The players didn’t
wait for orders: they raced for the
stands. They were all flat-out; Jack
McLaughlin, a Queenslander, showed his
paces: he went through the others like
a falcon through a flight of finches. And
lumbering behind, wallowing as they
stretched to it, going for all they were
worth, the two umpires left their dignity
behind them as they raced for shelter.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Shibli Bagarag”: In a huge adver-
tisement in the Wellington (N.Z.)
“Dominion” Sir Donald Wolfit, blandly
smiling, commended a cigarette. In
another part of the issue Bruce Mason
attacked Wolfit’s Shakspearian presen-
tations of the night before. So Sir
Donald scowled a few issues later in
a letter to the editor saying that Mason’s
first-night notice showed “that rudeness
for which N.Z. drama-critics are be-
coming world-famous.” Sir Donald is
old enough, maybe, to remember C. N.
Baeyertz and Frank Morton of “The
Triad” who were “ruder still.” I have
memories of such phrases as “bellowing
like a bull”* and “a pig’s whistle” in
their summings-up of visiting artists.
❖ ❖
“Lillydale”: For “Baksac’s” enlighten-
ment (B. 27/1/’6O), Myrt, behind any
rag-counter, becomes Miss Feather-
stonhaugh by emporial direction. I have
before me the booklet issued to all
“You feel a cad at first, but you soon get hardened to it.”
employees of an eminently conservative
and successful (Melbourne) drapery
which not only guides Myrt on the usage
of names but also suggests discreet
behavior entering and departing her
place of toil (adequately gloved). It
counsels moderation in her use of
make-up, deplores too-elaborate hairdo’s
(fringes are specifically mentioned), and
opines that she is better un-necklaced
and un-bangled.
“Malo”: “Coke?” asked the youth,
leaning against the gatepost. My husband
was working in the garden. “Yes, that’s
right. Down the side path to the bin at
the back.” The youth hesitated: “Could
take it through the garage—use the trolley
then.” “No,” he was told, “there are
steps at the back.” Muttering, the youth
returned to the lorry, spoke to his mate,
and they carried the bags round the
back. Job finished, the youth leant against
the gatepost again. “Hate working in the
sun—hot and dry,” he said. “It’s good
for your skin,” he was told, “especially
a day like today.” Seeing there was
nothing doing, youth left. Perhaps he
had better luck at his next delivery.
<£> * *
“J J.A.”: One more statistic on
Liberty-ships (B. 27 /1 / ’6O) was current
in Auckland (N.Z.) just after the war:
they were built and loaded quicker than
they were unloaded in Waitemata
Harbor.
“Wulworra”: An American editor was
well on the target when he declared that
“headline-English” is “the yellow-peril of
the language.” Certainly it produces
some odd results in Australian news-
sheets forever seeking bigger and more
hit-’em-in-the-eye headings, with con-
sequential use of short words. A favorite
is “bid” —Sydney’s evening papers sub-
mit more “bids” an issue than you
would get at an auction. But the “S. M.
Herald” offered the most freakish
example, recording that a car-driver
crashed while making a swipe at an
insect: “Fatal Bid by Driver to Kill
Bee.” Ye gods! By the same token, any
bloke with, a surname of more than one
syllable has small chance of making
today’s average news-headline. He has
to be content, like Eisenhower, with a
nickname (Ike), or, like Macmillan, with
an abbreviation (Mac). Just as well Sit
Hugh Denison isn’t running Sydney
“Sun” now—he mightn’t have relished
“Den.”
AUTUMN BAGS
“Matching handbag and gloves in autumn s
new tonings of Whisky, Bone and Black.’ •
Advt.
Oh, you who follow clothes-horse nags
Around the seasons’ track,
The autumn colors for your bags
Are Whisky, Bone and Black.
And some admire the Whisky bags.
They are so soft and tanned
That on the beach between the flags
They vanish in the sand.
And some admire the Bony bags.
So hard and white are they,
At night they wear their gloves to rags
And vanish in the day.
And some admire the Black, Black bags.
They are so grim and stark,
All day they hang around like hags
And vanish in the dark.
So say this much for autumn bags
Of Whisky, Bone and Black :
Whichever way your fancy wags
It never will come back.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


assured this is a new one:
1 When a good little mink died she
went straight to Heaven, where an angel
told her she could have any gift she
liked. “What I want most of all,” the
good little mink cried eagerly, “is a coat
made of chorus-girl.”—“Kenyas.”
♦♦♦ *** ♦♦♦
“Bo”: No doubt the N.S.W. Railways
Commissioner would resent the sugges-
tion that his department is old-
fashioned ; yet it retains that singular
anachronism the overhead luggage-rack.
I have invariably found that the space
in it due north of my own scone is
reserved for the use of the man travel-
ling for a firm of lead-ingot manufac-
turers, judging by the Herculean efforts
needed to hoist his suitcase into position,
so that I spend the entire journey, not
in placid perusal of book or crossword,
but in conjecture whether the thing
poised overhead will cause several units
of my cervical vertebrae to become
violently parted. A cove like me, who
suffers from duck’s disease, is compelled
to stand on the seat to use it —those who
first thought of the contraption appa-
rently fixed an arbitrary minimum-
height for all humans at 6ft. Bin. It can
be a subtle trap, for inspectors just love
to get you fined for busting that regula-
tion. I have a theory that the bloke
who originally designed it, back in the
days when Queen Victoria was in pig-
tails, made the width exactly three-
eighths of the depth of the average suit-
case, then passed it on to the depart-
ment’s physicist to determine at what
angle it would need to be fixed in the
carriage-wall to allow the case remain-
ing throughout the journey poised on a
fine-hair balance.
♦K ❖ *>
“G. 8.”: Another thing unlikely to be
seen again (B. 13/1/ ’6O) is payment of
wages in gold sovereigns. I was last
paid wages in sovereigns when I
drew a fortnight’s pay at the Lithgow
Small Arms Factory in the middle of
1915, being afterwards paid in the
newly-issued Commonwealth Bank notes.
A couple of years before, I was paid
my wages by a farmer in Beverley (W.A.)
with an £BO cheque. In the Beverley
branch of the Union Bank I was asked
by the paying-teller how did I want it,
gold or notes? I took £4O in sovereigns,
and £4O in Union Bank £1 notes.
❖ +> ❖
“Maitri”: Visiting Adelaide a month
°r so ago after its record drought, I
expected to see in city and suburbs only
the remains of gardens. How wrong I
was; green lawns, bright flowers, laden
fruit-trees on every side: I hadn’t
allowed for the Murray pipeline and the
complete absence of water-restrictions,
f returned to Sydney to find after two
hays of heatwave (and despite torrential
downpours of previous weeks and vast,
We ll-filled reservoirs) that lots of folk
could get no water from their taps while
others had had restrictions clamped-
down on them. It was the old, old
story; “reticulation” was lagging behind.
“Did you put the electric-fan under the Bench , Robert ?”
“Wandana”: A boy was
killed by a roll of linoleum which fell
on him in a Hobart (Tas.) store while
his mother was attempting to catch-up
with him. In Launceston, as a woman
was making a call from a telephone-
box a motor-car knocked the outfit from
its foundations, swinging it round and
injuring her.
❖ * *
“Ben Backslider”: Melbourne has just
been treated to a conference of the
Australian section of the World Council
of Churches. Delegates from most sects
attended, Catholics and Lutherans as
observers only. Discussions didn’t centre
on dogma and other world philosophy,
but were refreshingly practical, indicat-
ing a swiftly growing change in
ecclesiastical outlook notwithstanding the
“Hillbilly” Graham throwback. What
pleased this unrepentant prodigal more
than anything was the welcoming leader
in our oldest and most sedate daily
which concluded, “It will surely be the
wish of all men of goodwill, of every
faith and of none, that success should
attend the work of the men and women
who have come to our city.” Who
knows? The secretary of (say) the
Rationalist Association may be among
the delegates at the next conference.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Bagot”: In the then new Perth suburb
of Inglewood, in the early ’twenties,
building-activity created streets and
houses almost overnight; too quickly for
the municipal authorities to hand out
street-numbers. Then along came a
plausible chap armed with ‘an assort-
ment of number-plates which, he told
eager housewives, had been officially
allotted to their homes. Registration-fee,
including nailing to gatepost, added-up
to five - bob. He collected quids and
worked hard all day. Homecoming
spouses were startled to find that number
231 was next-door to 74, with'the adja-
cent home bearing 13, and so on through
several streets. The opportunist’s
method was to dip into the bag and
indiscriminately hammer -in whatever
digits happened to pop up. That was
nearly 40 years ago ; as far as I know
he hasn’t been caught yet.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Ceg”: The tender farewells had been
said at Flinders Street railway-station
and the young man departed. The girl,
well-dressed and beautiful, settled in her
corner of the compartment for a little
nap during the run to Williamstown.
A sea-captain making his way back to
his ship was the only other occupant
until North Melbourne, where a very
drunk drunk got in clutching a bottle
of beer and trailing an extra-large cray-
fish. He sat next to the sleeping-beauty
and also went to sleep, bottle and cray-
fish on the carriage-seat between them.
At Spotswood the boozy one awoke, and
half-fell out of the door: “This is where
I get out.” The girl slept on beside the


cray and bottle of beer. Next stop, two
spinsterish elderly women got in, settled
themselves and glared at the young
woman. “Disgusting!” said one. “Yes,”
said the other, “and I know who she is.
A very respectable family.” They nat-
tered on and finally got out at North
Williamstown. When the train reached
the terminus the sea-captain tapped the
young simper on the shoulder, told her
that the train was not going any further,
and, as she was getting out, asked her
whether she were not taking her luggage
with her. "Oh. no," said she, “they don't
belong to me.” Passing through the
barrier the captain asked the porter
whether he’d care for a nice big cray
and a bottle of beer. So the young lady
lost her reputation, the porter gained a
cray and a bottle of beer, and the skipper
had a chuckle. Now what about circum-
stantial evidence?
“Nettle”: Our popular beach was
crammed with tanned bodies, transistor-
sets, beach - umbrellas, surfboards . . .
Two very small girls strolled by. “Having
a good time?” I asked casually. “No.”
Both heads shook. They looked at me
sadly: “We live here.”
■»> ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: News-item in the Mel-
bourne “Herald”: “She called a doctor
who pronounced her dead.” Well, if I’d
been her, I’d have insisted on a second
opinion.
*X* *X* ❖
“N. O’Sirrah”: Our town-council met
for the first time after the elections to
choose their mayor. Voting was even,
so the names were put in a biscuit-tin
(none of the aldermen wears a hat), and
the first drawn out became mayor. Then
the position of deputy-mayor was voted-
for. The unsuccessful candidate for
mayor put up for this. Voting was even
again. The new mayor gave his casting-
vote against the man he had just defeated
for the chief position.
x T ’s good to know our school-inspectors
-*- watch their p’s and q’s. When I
asked a lad if he knew the district
inspector he replied: “Oh, yes. He
comes into our room with a great big
sm ji e on his face and tells us good clean
jokes. He’s a beautiful man!”—“K.A.R.”
❖ ❖ *
.. Tom Trout „. After a few years in
, ~, •, , f c • , «j' .
E "«!“? , h V Ig l ht , o£ Spanlsh boyS £ook
me Joyfully back to my own young days
™ Sydney. Despite the difference in
language, they seemed to have a lot or
affinity with the tough, poorer kids of
my suburb as they played barefooted
in the hot streets, paddling in the gutters,
and stridently sold newspapers (British
newsvendors all seem on the point of
senility). Always happy and laughing,
with a cheery greeting even for the
foreigner, they rate better than the
kids I knew on one thing—they all seem
possessed of a fingerless earblasting
whistle, a real beauty of a rallying-call,
and my eardrums still quiver at the
memory of it!
* ❖ ♦>
“Ex-ACT”: Newspaper photographs
showed our new Governor-General with
a most astonished expression as he
descended the gangway from the plane
which brought him to Canberra. Was
the reason the grey top-hats and striped
pants of the Prime Minister and others
waiting to greet him, while Lord Dun-
rossil himself was in a comfortable
lounge-suit and carrying a felt-hat?
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Sunray”: The matron of a home for
aged ladies told the visiting concert-party
that her charges could really enjoy a
first-class concert, might forgive a second-
rate performance if the supper were
extra good, but otherwise made no bones
about criticising the show. But at con-
certs put on by a group of people all
over 65, every item, good or bad, received
loud applause from the livelier ladies.
Maybe they like to let their hair down
occasionally and have a muck-up, and
feel more at home doing it with people
their own age.
♦£•* +*♦
“Pat”: All the way into Central the
two matrons had gabbed television. Her
companion gone, the stout, fuzzy-haired
woman turned to me: “Driven to buy
a TV at last, poor thing. Not that l'v e
much sympathy. When we bought ours
four years ago she was cock-a-hoop about
her girl coming top, and winning the
sports—-all because they didn’t have TV,
she reckoned it was. But now the girl's
in her teens it’s a different story.
Couldn’t bear to think she’s going to be
the only one the boys don’t come flock-
ing round. And, my dear, what boy's
going to pay for the flicks when he can
sit in a living-room and watch till mid-
night for nothing?”
SOUND ADVICE
“Hold his interest by talking about him first,
then talk fluently about those things that make
you most enthusiastic, if your eiiorts to be
friendly are rejected, you will know there is
something wrong with him, not with you.”—
Advice to young women by psychologist and
marriage-counsellor Dr. Richard Klemer.
When you’re out to grab your man,
Use the same tenacity
That motivates the tried and trusty
Mountie
Heed this fact: the also-ran
In the Marriage Stakes will be
Unlucky loser of a lifetime bounty!
So be mindful of the drill:
On his lapel get a grip,
Then let fly with a rushing verbal
torrent.
And, to generate goodwill,
Talk of him — he’d be a drip
Who’d deem a theme like that to
be abhorrent.
Tell him what a dear he is —•
As preliminary, of course,
To touching subjects far more con-
sequential ;
These will include his biz —
What he’s making from this source —
Or, if on salary, what is his potential.
In a subtle sort of way
Find out what he has in shares,
Such real-estate to which he may
hold title.
In this friendly, brief survey
Of his personal affairs,
Include bank-balances —they are SO
vital.
This will surely indicate
His importance in your eyes ;
Your lively curiosity should flatter
him.
If his interest does abate
(All the signs you’ll recognise)
Continue, with your verbiage, to
batter him.
Then if, desperate of eye,
He breaks loose, goes for his life
In manner very cowardly and
shameless,
Just be thankful. You would die
Rather than become his wife —
A man so full of faults, and you so
blameless !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


A Traveller's Report On...
The Green-gold Country
By PAULINE LITTLEFAIR
IF you are an average Aus-
tralian you will eat about
1151 b. of sugar next year.
That is quite a heap of
sugar for one person, but you
won't need to worry that the
supply will run out, for the
Queensland Government and
the sugarcane industry guaran-
tee that there will be enough
for all Australians, and at a
reasonable price.
Because of the annual
income it brings in—around
£56 million —sugarcane has
been called the green-gold of
Queensland. Plant, land and
equipment are worth £l4O mil-
lion, and 200,000 Australians
depend, either directly or
indirectly, upon the industry
for their livelihood.
Yet there is another sense in
which sugarcane can be called
the green-gold of Queensland,
for it clothes great stretches of
country along the northern
coastline with a mantle of
beautiful spring - green and
golden hue which sets it apart
from the rest of Australia and
gives it a particular charm.
The tourist travelling to the
north coast of Queensland by
car first sights the sugarcane
country round about Nambour,
77 miles from Brisbane ; but
because much else contends for
attention here (the pineapple-
growing, the banana and paw-
paw trees) it is not until one
comes to Childers and the
Bundaberg district that the full
beauty of the green-gold coun-
try displays itself.
At Childers the hills billow
over the horizon, setting out
a pattern of pale-green cane,
chequered lines of cut golden-
brown cane, fallow-fields of
rich chocolate-red and sym-
metrical lines of young shoots
striping the colorful soil with
ribbons of delicate green.
Sugarcane is beautiful at all
stages of its development, and,
as it grow's at a uniform rate,
a paddock of it in the distance
looks like a carefully cropped
lawn.
At Bundaberg the picture is
u ally magnificent, though
different, for here the flatness
°f the countryside gives a wide
and open view of this lovely
d es ign, set-off in the summer
by great clusters and rows of
profusely blossoming pink
oleander.
Adding to the wonderland
effect which the green-gold
country has upon the tourist
are the little cane-trains that
trundle out of narrow lanes in
the canefields, their engines
often the puffing-billy type,
their long line of trucks laden
with cut cane. They are on
their way to the mills, and
their 2ft. rails cross the high-
ways and the main streets of
the towns all through this part
of the country.
A mong the sights of the
green-gold country at
harvest-time are the fireworks
displays which illuminate the
sky at night when a field of
cane is burnt-off for cutting.
The fire starts as a vivid glow,
then sends up great showers of
sparks, blazes into huge flames,
then (just before one can get
to a convenient position with
a camera) dies with dramatic
suddenness.
The burning is done to rid
the cane of the creatures that
have been making it their
home. Some of them are “wee,
sleekit, cowerin’, timorous
beasties”; others are real pests,
such as the rats which built
nests halfway up the cane,
causing it to send out new roots
and complicate the cutting.
Rats may also leave disease-
germs in the cane, and the fire
destroys these, too.
Giant .toads (up to 6in. high)
have been doing a good job
in the cane for many years by
destroying the cane-beetle.
There are also frogs and rep-
tiles and sundry other beasties,
all of which depart with some
haste as the fire sweeps through
the cane. All, that is, except
the death-adders, which, true
to their name, prefer death to
dishonor, remain and are
consumed.
After leaving the Bundaberg
district, it is not until you
reach Sarina, 700 miles from
Brisbane, that you again see
the canefields spreading over
the valley. Here there is the
added beauty of the hills which
come circling round, thickly
wooded and tinged with the
gold of the tropic green.
It is from this point to a
region about 50 miles north
of Cairns that 80 per cent, of
Australia’s sugarcane is grown
(97 per cent, of all cane is
grown in Queensland ; the
remainder in N.S.W.).
Tp ver since “Summer of the
17th Doll,” the canecutter
has come in for a share of
public interest. Here in the
green-gold country you can
see him at work. Although
the cane-growing industry is
proud that it is worked entirely
by white labor, and that in this
respect it is unique, the cane-
cutter at work looks almost
entirely black. His face, his
hands, his boots, his clothes,
his hat—all have the sooty look
because of the burning of the
cane before it is cut.
Unlike nearly everyone else
in Queensland, where a cheery
wave is second-nature, the cane-
cutter does not generally look
up as you pass: he is intent
on his work.
It is strenuous work, per-
formed during the second half
of the harvest in the intense
heat of summer. The cutter’s
work-season extends roughly
from June to December. He is
paid about 15s. to 16s. per ton
of cane cut, and may earn as
much as £4O a week.
Canecutting is not for the
casual laborer looking for easy
money. The cutters work under
contract and as a team. They
don’t carry an idler or a weak-
ling willingly.
However, when you meet the
cutter cycling down the roads,
his black tattered shirt flying,
his black ragged hat on the
back of his head, the smile on
his sooty face is as cheery as
everyone else’s and his wave of
the hand as friendly.
Of the 8000 men cutting
cane during the season, many
are migrants—ltalians, Greeks,
Yugoslavs, Finns. But this
source of labor is declining,
and it is thought that the day
of the canecutter is coming to
a close.
Mechanical means of cutting
cane have already been demon-
strated to the farmers in North
Queensland, and they have
shown a good deal of interest
in them, though the majority
still prefer the hand-cut
method. Perhaps the cost of
the machines shown —between
£3OOO and £7OO0 —may have
(Continued on page 34)
“This is as good a spot as any.”


POLITICAL POINTS
And then, suddenly, there was no
longer an Evatt in an Australian Parli-
ment!
• •
The Prime Minister disapproves of
what he calls “the new doctrine” that
highly paid public servants should get
salary-rises—in some cases as much as
£9OO a year —simply because margins
for skilled tradesmen have been in-
creased. He's not the only one who feels
that way, but unfortunately this rise is
merely the latest link in a chain that
goes back to the rise Federal M.P.s
gave themselves early last year.
That was a factor the Arbitration
Commission could not ignore when con-
sidering the A.C.T.U. claim for a basic-
wage increase a few months later. Ihe
basic-wage rise, by lowering the relative
value of margins for skill, strengthened
the case for increased margins. Now it’s
on again. An application has been
lodged for another increase in the basic-
wage and the hearing begins this week.
• •
The election of a Federal Labor leader
will possibly not take place till March
7, and it seems that by that time so many
members will be tied to so many candi-
dates that some will most likely die of
political strangulation. The features of
the campaign appear to be the modesty
of Ward in going for only the deputy-
leadership, the modesty of Crean and
Allan Fraser in not going at all (just
now) and the apparent eagerness of
everybody in the field to vote for some-
body else.
• •
A cockroach whose name is not
Archy and who is described in the press
as anonymous has held-up the B.H.P.’s
Iron Spencer because the seamen refuse
to serve with it. Perhaps if somebody
christened it Elliott V. Elliott and tied
a red ribbon round its neck the ship
could proceed to sea.
• •
The Federal Government is to inter-
vene in the basic-wage hearing this week.
There’s a strong argument for State
Governments putting-in an appearance
also. The six Premiers have sought in-
creases in loan-allocations to cover the
increase in their wages-bills as a result
of the basic-wage and margins-judg-
ments. This is complaining after the
event.
If Governments to hold costs
steady they should produce evidence in
the courts to show the effect on their
Budgets of a proposed rise. This
wouldn’t be a popular course —which is
probably why it is being avoided —but
if the States showed as much unanimity
on it as they have in their Oliver Twist
act the court could scarcely ignore them.
• •
The N. S. Wales Government has de-
cided to introduce legislation to provide
that in future public servants and police-
officers convicted of “a felony or other
infamous offence” need not necessarily
be dismissed. A proposal to give the poor
fellows gold medals will no doubt follow.
• •
The N.S.W. Bar will welcome any
improvements the new Chief Justice can
make in the administration of the
Supreme Court. There have been com-
plaints for some time about arrange-
ments for calling witnesses in undefended
divorce cases, among other similar
administrative matters. Some judges
favor more round-table conferences with
the Chief Justice in order to iron-out
day-to-day problems. Dr. Evatt’s ex-
perience on the High Court—a hard-
working Bench —and as a Federal Minis-
ter could be of value in helping to solve
the administrative problems of the
N.S.W. Supreme Court.
Metropolitan Cement directors have
recommended their shareholders to accept
the offer of Commonwealth Portland
Cement of 3s. for each fully-paid share.
This is the “only constructive method by
which shareholders can obtain any
return,” say the directors, and it is con-
tingent on 90 per cent, acceptance by
March 14. If the takeover comes-off
trade-creditors and debenture-holders will
be paid in full, but no disclosure has
been made of any agreement on the fate
of the co.’s overdraft with the Rural
Bank, Which in June last stood at
£4,584,766. Estimated losses of the co.
exceed £2 million, more than double the
issued capital.
In its youth, when Metropolitan was
the darling of Labor politicians, they used
to claim that its mission was to force
the “big cement combines” to bring-
down their prices. Commonwealth
Cement is an Australian subsidiary of a
British company, Associated International
Cement, Ltd.
• •
De Gaulle's determination not to
allow America to dictate how he shall
defend France is a blow to Washington
policy in Europe and temporarily
awkward for other Nato members. It is
obvious that the French will not be
deterred even by the incredible
Nkhrumah’s ukase that French property
in Ghana is frozen by way of punish-
ment for the explosion of an atomic
bomb in the Sahara, hundreds of miles
from Ghana.
AN OCCUPATIONAL DISORDER
“It’s a queer business, Doctor. Every Tuesday for weeks I used to get butterflies
in the stomach. Now I’ve got nothing but a splitting headache.”


jf it takes Labor as long to pick a
neW leader as it did to dispose of the
o ld one he’ll be due for retirement by
the time he gets the job.
• •
Auburn Council (Sydney) has decided
to refund the fees it has collected for
permission to erect TV-antennae. A
sensible decision. The licence-fee was
one of the worst cases of municipal hide
on record.
• •
Russia’s most travelled Tsar is in
orbit again, this time to India, Burma,
Indonesia and Afghanistan. He is
accompanied by his son, two daughters,
a son-in-law and a granddaughter. If
our Ministers take their wives with them
they have to answer questions in Parlia-
ment as to the cost of the trip. What
Hero of the Soviet Union will seek
a bar to his medal by rising in his place
in the Parliament of the Soviets and
asking how much the Khrushchev family
holiday cost the taxpayers?
• •
All parties in Queensland are pre-
paring for an early election, possibly in
April, but more likely towards the end
of May. Any possibility of a reconcilia-
tion between the two warring segments of
Labor has now vanished and both the
A.L.P. and the Q.L.P. will run a large
team of candidates. In amending the
Electoral Act last year the Nicklin Gov-
ernment resisted suggestions that prefer-
ential voting should be introduced. Seats
will be decided on the old first-past-the-
post system.
• •
Three weeks' annual leave, one of the
factors which brought about the downfall
of the Gair Government in 1957, is
coming to life again. A.L.P. leader
Duggan has announced that if his party
is returned to power he will immediately
introduce three weeks’ leave. Gair’s
comment on this is that before the split
Duggan, as Minister for Transport, was
one of the chief opponents of the
extension of annual leave, claiming that
the Railways couldn’t afford it. It was
only when he saw the chance of replacing
Gair as leader that he agreed to accept
dictation from the Q.C.E. on that issue.
Gair maintains that if his Government
had stayed in office it would have
hrought-in three weeks’ leave by now,
hut that “the prospects of a Duggan
Government being elected to bring about
this reform are extremely remote.”
, Nicklin’s attitude on the subject is that
h is a matter for the Queensland
Industrial Court.
• •
, Capital-outlay required for the erec-
jton of powerhouses in the next decade
* s estimated at £5OO million, Snowy
fountains chief Sir William Hudson
jold the Australian Citizenship Conven-
t>°n. And expenditure on transmission
an d distribution could amount to a
s, milar figure. Most of the new power
come from coal-burning plants
built on or near coalfields and it would
be many years before nuclear power
was likely to compete with it.
In areas remote from coal-supplies
nuclear stations might come earlier.
South Australia would probably be the
first State to use nuclear energy.
• •
Two Federal by-elections will be held
shortly, one to fill Dr. Evatt’s seat,
Hunter, and one for Lord Casey’s seat,
Latrobe. There’ll be keen competition
for the Labor nomination for one and
the Liberal nomination for the other.
A blind donkey walking backwards could
win Hunter, provided he wore the A.L.P.
label. Latrobe isn’t quite such a walk-
over, but Casey was 4000 ahead of two
opponents in the 1958 poll. In Hunter
Evatt had 20,000 votes to spare.
A.L.P. State executive has decided
that the Hunter candidate will be chosen
by the Hunter electorate council as
there’ll be no time to hold preselection
ballots. The vacancy must have come
as a surprise to them!
• •
“Collins Street”: There’ll be no Aus-
tralian Book Fair during the Melbourne
Moomba Festival in March because the
organisers have been belatedly informed
that the Lower Town Hall, where the
Book Fair has been built-up considerably
over five years, will not be available.
The tenancy has been given to the
Moomba Nature Show whose sponsors
applied, it is asserted, last July. Appar-
ently they were given the hall without
even a courtesy call being made to the
Book Council.
The chairman of the Nature Show is
a member of the Moomba board, but
he’s obviously not the only board-
member who prefers nature to books.
Melbourne writers suspect that the board
thinks that anything more intellectual
than fireworks and funny processions is
pretentious poppycock.
• •
Use of official documents in the Eden
memoirs had been authorised by Prime
Minister Macmillan, Lord Home told the
House of Lords last week. Labor peer
Lord Silkin had asked whether the Prime
Minister had taken into account “the
mischief which might be done in Britain’s
relations with the United States.” Lord
Home replied that the P.M. had taken
into account “all the considerations,
political and otherwise, which were
relevant.”
• •
A Chair of Oriental Studies will be
established at Melbourne University
before the end of the year ; also, with the
aid of the Indian Government and the
Spalding Trust of England, a readership
of Indian Studies. A department of
Indonesian Studies already exists. The
Oriental chair will be privately endowed.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Local authorities have
already taken over 22 of the 100 country
aerodromes offered by the Federal
Government under the plan whereby the
Government provides half of all main-
tenance and future agreed development-
costs. Civil aviation is benefiting—but
why isn’t some similar scheme thought
out to give Australia the urgently needed
network of good highways?
• •
Motorists and municipal councils on
Sydney’s North Shore who are complain-
ing at the increase in the Harbor Bridge
toll and want the toll abolished forget
two things. The bridge still has to be paid
for and it has been understood right
from the beginning that it will be paid for
by those who use it, not by the general
taxpayers. Secondly, the toll is the only
transport charge that hasn’t increased
three or fourfold since 1932. At the
new rate it will be, at the most, doubled.
For a car carrying more than two
passengers, there’s no increase at all.
• •
Rubbish-dumping has become so
widespread that official Melbourne has
been stirred to sinister threats; Sir
Thomas Maltby, Minister for Public
Works, approves the harsh penalties
imposed in some American States,
requiring the offender to clean-up two
miles of the roadway, or fines up to £5OO.
It is probable these penalties are
imposed in places where rubbish-dumps
are accessible at reasonable times. In
Melbourne they aren’t. When the
factories and offices close, the few remain-
ing dumps are locked, and the locks
stay-on during the weekend.
• •
“Stromlo”: In Westralia Federal A.L.P.
president Chamberlain has resigned from
the post of president of the Fabian
Society, only three weeks after his elec-
tion to it. His resignation followed publi-
cation in the December “Fabian Monthly”
of an article over the name of John
Henshaw, a blind lawyer who is on the
State A.L.P. executive. The article dis-
cussed the decision of the trade-union
congress in Perth last November, which
decided by 555 to 206 card-votes to
adhere to the existing W.A. political-
industrial organisation and reject the
A.C.T.U. directive for a separate trades
and labor council as in the other States.
It claimed that Chamberlain, purporting
to circulate an impartial report on the
A.C.T.U. decision, had actively
campaigned against a distinct trade-union
organisation in W.A., and it added that
the present combined administration was
harmful, both politically and industrially.
Henshaw will be on the mat at the next
A.L.P. executive meeting.
• •
In the last two years 725 university
and college teachers and tutors from the
Soviet-occupied zone of Germany have
sought asylum in the Federal Republic.
The common cause given for these
decisions to leave homes and jobs is the
so-called “Socialist transformation” of the
universities and colleges in the Com-
munist zone, with increasing regimenta-
tion and lack of political and academic
freedom.


Personal ITEMS
Nicknamed Steve for as long as he
can remember, recently knighted Major-
General Sir Cyril Weir, N.Z. Chief of
General Staff, has been having his
Christian names changed by deed-poll to
Stephen Cyril Ettrick. His title will be
Sir Stephen Weir. The nickname goes
back to childhood ; its owner thinks it
was given him by his father’s farmhands
in Otago.
• •
Two new members were elected to
Melbourne Stock Exchange last week —
Peter Jaffe and George Carrington, third
and fourth of 10 new members to be
elected at £lO,OOO a head.
Peter Jaffe, an M.A., was educated at
Rugby and King’s College, Cambridge,
and arrived in Australia in 1951. He put
in his first years here with the “Aus-
tralian Financial Review” and lately
has been a member of the staff of
William Noall and Son, Melbourne
stockbrokers. He has played most sports,
including, of course, Rugby ; but, share-
broking being what it is these days, now
doesn’t get time even to think out a few
moves at chess
George Carrington, an associate of the
Bankers’ Institute, may be the youngest
man on ’Change ; he is 34. Yet he had
three war years with the R.A.N. For
the last decade he has been associated
with broker C. E. Mott, and he now
becomes a partner in the firm of C. E.
Mott, Carrington and Co.
• •
Peter Thwaites, recommended as new
headmaster by Geelong College Council,
is a member of a well-known Victorian
family with literary and scholastic asso-
ciations. For the past three years he
has been head of Ballarat College where
his father, the late R.E., was headmaster
for the decade before 1945, and he has
headed Perth’s Guildford Grammar.
Peter Thwaites was educated at
Geelong Grammar, served in the North
Atlantic with the R.N. and later with
the R.A.N., and, after the war, returned
to Oxford. In 1948 Thwaites won a
Gowrie Scholarship for research in edu-
cation. He is an Oxford M.A., a B.A.
with honors at Melbourne University
and a Bachelor of Education.
• •
The end of school-holidays brought a
permanent vacation to W. (Wally)
Stooke, who has just retired after 50 years
in the Westraiian Education Department
—he ended as Chief Administrative
Officer. A noted footballer, he captained
the Perth eighteen from 1920 to 1923
and was president of the W.A. National
Football League from 1931 to 1950 (a
record term). In War I he served with
the Bth M.G. Company and later with
the sth M.G. Battalion.
Brigade-major of the 16th Infantry
Brigade at the capture of Bardia and
Tobruk—he supervised tape-laying and
mine-lifting at both operations—Major-
General lan Ross Campbell wrote the
review of Anthony Heckstall-Smith’s
Tobruk; The Story of a Siege, Red-
paged today. lan Campbell’s name was
pretty well known around the fortress,
and his opinion is worth having, though
by the time of the siege he had moved-on
IAN CAMPBELL
to other parts. Given command of the
2/Ist Bn., he went to Greece and was
later bagged in Crete, where he was
commanding the Australian force (his
own battalion, the 2/11th, and half the
2/3rd Field Regiment) defending Retimo
airstrip on the north of the island.
After the war, Campbell was the first
Director of Infantry (1949-51) and had
considerable say in designing the tie
which is now worn by all ranks past
and present of the Royal Australian
Infantry. He was Commandant of the
Australian Staff College (1953-54) and
later, from 1954 to 1957, of the Royal
Military College, Duntroon. He retired
in 1957, but is still hon. colonel of the
N.S.W. Scottish (30th Bn.). His civilian
role is assistant-manager, market-
development division for James Hardie
Pty., Ltd.
Lieutenant C. A. Fremantle, R.N.,
now in Australian waters on board the
frigate St. Brides Bay, is a great-great-
great-grandnephew of Admiral Sir
Charles Fremantle, who came to Aus-
tralia in 1829 as captain of H.M.S.
Challenger and after whom Fremantle
was named. The Fremantles have been
associated with the Royal Navy since
1760.
• •
Successor to Bishop J. D. McKie as
Coadjutor-Bishop of Melbourne, Bishop
Donald Redding, of St. Mary’s Church
of England, South Camberwell (Vic.),
came to Australia from London in 1914,
at the age of 16, and served as a trooper
in the Light Horse in the Ist A.I.F. He
trained for the ministry at St. Barnabas’
College, Adelaide, and was Bishop of
Bunbury (W.A.) from 1951 to 1957. In
War 11, as Senior Chaplain, 7th Austra-
lian Division, he won the M.B.E.
• •
“Maitri”: Former Rhodes Scholar
L. R. D. Pyke, M.A. (Oxon), B.Sc.,
Dip. Ed., has resigned as headmaster of
Newington College (Sydney) to become
Dean of Post-graduate Studies at the
Monash University, Melbourne.
Born in Queensland and educated at
Wesley College and Melbourne Univer-
sity, Pyke continued his studies at
Oxford and later taught at Merchiston
Castle School, Edinburgh. Returning to
Australia, he was a master at Wesley
College for five years and then became
a lecturer in chemistry at the University
of Adelaide. Later he was appointed
senior-lecturer in chemistry at Mel-
bourne Uni. Before he went to Newing-
ton in 1952 he had been sub-warden of
the Mildura Branch of Melbourne Uni-
versity for two years.
During his eight years at Newington
the number of scholars has increased, a
preparatory school has been opened and
an ambitious building-scheme has been
carried-out.
• •
“R.R.D.”: Marcel Chicoteau, Consul
for France in Sydney, published an
interesting paper in “Mens Eadem,” a
Sydney University publication, last year
entitled “A Papal Bull and Australian
Gold.” He’s just had it privately re-
printed, with three photographs of 16th-
century French charts of the Australian
coastline (two reproduced from the
Mitchell Library, one from the Biblio-
theque Nationale, Paris). Chicateau puts
forward the interesting theory that the
Papal bull which Pope Alexander VI
issued on July 4, 1493, fixing the line
of ownership of newly discovered lands
between Spain and Portugal—it was later
confirmed by the treaty of Tordesillas
and settled as lying 370 leagues west of
Cape Verde —traced thereby the present
boundary of Western Australia and
unwittingly gave the goldfields of Kim-
berley to Portugal while the rest of
Australia lay in the Spanish sphere of
influence.
Particularly interesting is the chart of
Guillaume Le Testu (1555), who sailed


from Dieppe round the Cape to Sumatra,
“whence to the island of gold.” The
name Jave-la-Grande appears on the
map, but the statement annexed says
that “this part of the same land of the
south called Australie.... has never
been discovered.... and is only drawn
from imagination.” The map shows in
bold lettering “Terre de Offir” on the
conjectured coastline. Perhaps Le Testu,
who made no claim to having visited
Australia, was seeking to bring Australia
into the age-long search for the location
of King Solomon’s Ophir.
• •
Robert Milligan, who’s just notched
his century in Perth, came from Scotland
75 years ago and worked in Queensland
and N. S. Wales before moving to Cool-
gardie goldfields in 1894. Four years
later he joined the W.A. Government
Railways and spent 32 years in that
service. Still active, he gave-up garden-
ing only about 12 months ago.
• •
Here sketched, Ronald McKie is the
author of The Heroes, reviewed on this
week’s Red Page. This is his third book
—his previous one, Proud Echo, was the
story of H.M.A.S. Perth —and he spent
two years collecting his facts and writing
the detail. He got a lot of information
about Operation Rimau from a Japanese
journalist who had acted as interpreter
at the trial of 10 members of the raiding
party.
McKie, born in Queensland and a
fourth-generation Australian, has been
around quite a bit. Before War II he
worked as a journalist in Australia,
Singapore and China. On the outbreak
he joined the A.I.F. and later spent two
years as a war-correspondent in Burma
and Europe. The scope of his reportage
included some unusual sights. He saw
Mussolini in his coffin and was able to
count the bullet-holes.' He also went to
RONALD McKIE
Oslo for the trial of Quisling. Back in
Australia, he was the first Australian
journalist to win a Smith-Mundt fellow-
ship to the United States, where he
worked part of the time on a newspaper
in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
These days he’s with Sydney “Telegraph.”
• •
Clement Hosking corrects himself:
In B. 25 /11 / ’59 I accused our new Governor-
General of being “a capable practitioner on
the bagpipes.” I now find that he isn’t, and
I hasten to make amends. I erred by confusing
his Excellency with his brother who does play
the pipes and, also, I made the mistake of
believing reports I’d read in daily newspapers.
Nevertheless, what l said of Lord Dunrossil’s
understanding of the finer points of Celtic
music, such as the pibroch and the oran mor,
is almost certainly correct. In North Uist
(where he was born and bred), folk of average
intelligence discuss the native music with an
enthusiasm usually reserved in this country
for Test cricket or the Melbourne Cup; at
least, they did so 20 years ago when I was
there.
• •
W. A. Williams, formerly refinery co-
ordinator for the Standard-Vacuum Oil
Co., New York, has been appointed
manufacturing-director of Vacuum Oil
Co. Pty. His portfolio will include the
petrochemical plant at Altona, Victoria,
and the proposed Vacuum refinery in
Adelaide. He has had wide experience
in the oil industry.
Before his appointment as refinery
co-ordinator in New York, he was
managing - director of the Standard-
Vacuum Refining Co. of India.
• •
“Kanimbla”: Former N. S. Wales
cricketer Desmond Robert (“Bob”)
Cristofani, who’s been appointed Aus-
tralia's first Trade Commissioner at
Accra (Ghana), played in the Australian
Services team in England and India just
after War 11. For the past four years
he has been Assistant Trade Commis-
sioner at Johannesburg. In Accra
Cristofani will handle trade relations
with Nigeria, Liberia and Sierra Leone
as well as Ghana.
His appointment brings the total of
Australian trade representatives in Africa
to four. Other posts are at Johannes-
burg, Salisbury (Rhodesia), and Nairobi.
• •
R. H. Menzies, who has been pre-
viously known as the inspector for Vic-
toria, Bank of N.S.W., will now carry
the title of chief manager for Victoria.
• •
“A.C.T.”: When a messenger-boy with
a Sydney firm, J. J. Keenan, who passed-
on in Sydney the other day at 90, picked-
up a page from a shorthand-book.
Becoming interested, he studied short-
hand in his spare time and, after much
experience in commercial circles, was
appointed official recorder for the com-
mittee which framed the Australian
Constitution. He was probably the last
survivor of those historic meetings and
his political recollections were still clear
and vivid when I last saw him a few
months ago.
“In the oil-game half the battle is
luck,” says Nash J. Dowdle, who is at
present visiting Australia. He should
know. Ten years ago he. was an in-
surance-salesman in Chicago ; now he’s
chairman of the Texas American Oil
NASH DOWDLE
Co., which has interests in 104 wells
in western Texas, the district which
provides 20 per cent, of the total oil-
production of the U.S. He took to oil,
he says, because basically it provides
one of the few ways of accumulating
a reasonable sum of money reasonably
fast. But it’s not 'the prospecting side
he’s really concerned with—that’s the
geologists’ job. He deals with business-
administration.
Tall and soft - spoken, Dowdle
(sketched herewith) has the far-seeing
eyes of a fighter-pilot—not surprising,
as he spent War II in the U.S. Army
Air Force as a flight-instructor in
Lightnings and Mustangs. He started
in the oil game independently, and it
was 18 months before he struck oil and
five years before he formed his company.
Since then he hasn’t looked back. He
plans to set-up an Australian subsidiary
company with a backing from the
parent-co. in America to look for oil in
Australia.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 70, E. J. (“Ted”) Farrell,
who three times represented his State in the
King’s Cup and three times rowed in the
winning crew in Victorian championship fours.
In Melbourne, at. 77, William John McGrath,
acting-chairman of the Tramways Board and a
Royal Show judge since 1925.
In Melbourne, at 78, Charles Herbert Mason,
former chairman and managing-director of Kraft
Foods and well known for his interest in
horseracing.


ABORIGINALITIES
nPHE baby-dugong, separated from its
mother, swam towards my dinghy
as I sculled it over shallow mud-flats
to my fishing-boat anchored in deeper
water. As it nuzzled its way along the
dinghy’s grey-painted sides I brought
the oar quietly inboard, then leaned over
and tried to lift it in. But a slippery
401 b. is hard to handle from an awkward
position, and the little bloke slapped
his large flat tail down, dowsing me
with muddy water, and made-off. But
not before I found, to my surprise, that
its body was covered with inch-long,
soft yellow hair —all full-grown dugongs
I’d seen had been hairless. It is possible
that hair does grow to the adult stage.
I’ve watched dugongs “surfing” in
shallow waters along N.Q. beaches and
rolling in the sand, and this is most
probably to rid their hides of sea-lice,
barnacles and sucker-fish. The abrasive
action of the sand, while delousing these
timid creatures, would do the barbering.
—“Amdee.”
* * * *
“Bronk”: Wells can be problems. A
neighbor in our central-western N.S.W.
town had one that suddenly went dry.
He made two trips to the six-miles-
distant river with a 500-gallon tank and
emptied the contents into the well. Next
morning it was empty—and plugging a
hole in the bottom of a well isn’t fun.
* * * *
“Baksac”: The favorite shrub having
died, post-mortem showed that the cause
was a stocking which, tied early around
the stem for support, had strangled all
growth. Shown the cause, the spouse
was unconvinced. It was a nylon stock-
ing, she insisted. It transpired that some
bright dispenser of gardening-notes had
assured his readers that if a nylon stock-
ing is used -to tie-up plants no harm
can be done, because as the limb grows
the nylon accommodatingly stretches.
Misinformation, if ever there was. Tied
with string the plant may have been
able to grow bark and cambrian-layer
over it, just as many a bush-tree has
completely overgrown an encircling
fence-wire. But the nylon, far from
retaining its bandage-like width, had
rolled into a rope with a diameter im-
passable for a trunk 1-jfn. through.
* * * *
“Drypan”: A 1501 b.-bunch of bananas
—a record for the Tweed River (N.S.W.)
district—has been grown by Cecil Steve.
It comprised about 22 doz., many up to
a foot long and nearly a pound in weight.
Variety was Williams Hybrid.
* * * *
“Alsace”: For up to 80 years and
more the wrecks of some 40 ships have
lain undisturbed along the desolate Vic-‘
torian coastline between Port Fairy and
Apollo Bay, in the shadow of forbidding
cliffs and headlands; but the skin-
divers are altering that. Some of them
lately found the 52-year-old wreck of
the freighter Falls of Haledale, but of
her £35,000 cargo all that can be seen
are some coils of barbed-wire. Under
full sail from New York to Melbourne
she hit an inshore-reef in a night-fog,
but the crew of 29 got away in boats.
For several weeks the ship stood secure
on the reef, as though riding at anchor,
until big seas forced her down. The
divers also came upon the wreck of the
British clipper Loch Ard, which sank in
June, 1878, with the loss of 50 lives, off
the entrance to the gorge that now bears
her name. Among relics brought up by
skin-divers were porcelain ale-tankards,
lamp-brackets, fittings, broken whisky-
bottles, toothbrushes, and most
poignant—a child’s broken cannon,
possibly belonging to one of the eight
members of the Carmichael family, seven
of whom were lost with the ship.
* * * *
“Ants”: “Tabba” (B. 2/12/’59) is only
partly right about the need for boiling
water in tea-making, because it is tem-
perature that counts, and that varies with
height above sea-level. Water heated to
just under boiling in Sydney would make
better tea than boiling water in Can-
berra, since, apart from actually being
hotter and making a better and quicker
infusion, the Sydney water would have
its flavor •• giving aeration preserved*
whereas the boiling Canberra water
would have all dissolved gases driven
MAPOORAM
[A legend of the Ngeamba tribe, told by
Fred Briggs.]
Go out and camp somewhere. You’re
lying down.
A wind comes. And you hear this
“Mapooram”.
You go and find that tree rubbing itself.
It makes all sort of noises in the wind :
it might be like a sheep, or like a cat,
or like a baby crying, or someone calling,
a sort of whistling-calling when the wind
comes and swings and rubs two boughs
like that.
A Wirreengun, a clever-feller, sings
That tree. He hums a song, a Mapooram,
a song to bring things out or close things
up,
a song to bring a girl, a woman from the
tree.
She’s got long hair, it falls down to her
back.
He’s got her for himself. He’ll keep her
now.
One evening it was sort of rainy-dark.
They built a mia-mia, stripping bark.
You’ve been out in the bush sometime
and seen
them old dry pines with loose bark
coming off.
You get a lot of bark off them dry pines,
before they rot and go too far, you know.
The woman from the tree, she pulled the
bark.
It tore off, up and up the tree. It pulled
her up into the tree, up, up into the sky.
Well, she was gone. That was the end
of it.
No more that Wirreengun could call her
back.
“Mapooram, mapooram”. “What’s that?”
you say.
Why, that’s two tree-boughs rubbing in
the wind.
N.S.W.
Roland Robinson.


“Scram, girls! This is serious !”


“The future doesn't Worry me for MYSELF, mark you — I'm getting old
and Wont be here to see it."
off, the absence of which makes boiled
water insipid. I haven’t heard about
efforts to boil the billy atop Mt.
Kosciusko, but guess you’d there need a
pressure-cooker for a decent cuppa.
* * * *
“Rangitaiki”: When two prisoners
escaped at 12.30 p.m. from the prison-
farm at Waikeria (N.Z.) 12 prison-
officers and four police with the trained
prison - dog, Chips, searched diligently.
The prisoners watched from behind
scrub. A rabbit ran across the trail, and
all Chips’s special training wasn’t proof
against the opportunity. The prisoners
breathed freely and waited for night,
but before then surrendered voluntarily
to a lone farmer whose sheepdogs found
them still waiting in the same patch of
scrub.
* * * *
“Ailsey”: Lithgow (N.S.W.) Work-
men’s Club has almost a museum-piece
in its clay quoit-pitch. Tossing of quoits
—not the rope variety still to be found
in sporting and other clubs —is a lost
art; yet half-a-century ago every pub,
especially in the coalmining areas, had
its clay pitch in the backyard. Much
skill was needed in pitching a “ringer,”
a “toucher” or a “dagger” the requisite
21yds. to the pin, in a game that appa-
rently came a century ago from the
coalfields of Britain. As a kid in the
Newcastle (N.S.W.) district I can remem-
ber tournaments for big money-prizes.
Moreover, when the police weren’t
looking, side-wagers were on that would
make modern s.-p. bookies .gasp.
* * * *
“Ashley Hill”: Sid Black’s drawing of
an abo. saying to a black woman
under an umbrella, “Scared of sunburn,
Mary?” (B. 28/10/’59) recalled native
Torres Strait nurses who had been
working inside Waiben T.B. Hospital
on Thursday Island for a year before
they took, their holidays. They pre-
ferred to spend off-duty hours in their
excellent quarters, only venturing out
to go to the pictures at night. They
lived the lives of average white women,
mostly indoors. When they went to
their home-island for their annual
holiday they sailed there in luggers that
had no shelter from the sun, and spent
many hours out fishing in open boats.
Believe it or not, they suffered from sun-
burn much the same as white people, and
their skins peeled. When they returned
to duty they were much, much blacker
than when they had left for their
holiday ; but they gradually paled back
to the lovely plum-brown we had been
used to seeing.
* * * *
“Shibli Bagarag”: Supervised by two
“umpires,” Marton (N.Z.) bricklayer C.
Hunt laid 2603 bricks in a quarter-
hour short of a full working-day. This,
it is claimed, beats the previous record
(held by a Russian woman) by 403.
Under the rules he was “fed” with
bricks and cement by two laborers. A
claim is made in the Guinness Book of
Records that in the U.S. in 1937 one
Joseph Raglon laid 3472 bricks—“sup-
ported by assistants” —in 60min. There
must have been a platoon of them, for
this works-out at about a brick a second!
* * * *
“O-Twit”: Mount Barker, claiming to
be Adelaide’s cream-bowl, decided to
substitute glamorously - groomed cows
for beautiful girls in the queen-competi-
tion of its three-day festival, the first
time cows have replaced girls in a queen-
contest anywhere. After special beauty-
treatment, the cows march through the
main street. Comparing the vital
statistics of “The Countess of Butter-
whey III” with “Strawb’s” may be of
interest to those in the dairying industry
but I doubt if it has any effect on the
voting by the general public. Proclaim-
ing the pedigree of each entrant will
also be a diversion —as a judge at the
Royal Adelaide Show (1958) said in a
broadcast discussion with a competitor
in the dairy - section (an unopposed
aspirant in the State elections for the
Legislative Council): “Political bulldust
won't take prizes in the show-ring.”
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: Giving evidence against a
man charged with stealing 38 pigs, a
detective stated in a northern N.S.W.
court that accused had removed them
silently “by dragging them away by their
hind-legs.” Now, can anyone say why
a grunter should be automatically ren-
dered mute when its rear pins are
elevated —or is it human legs that are
being tugged?
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
3/2/’6O) is paper-barking up the wrong
tea-tree by querying if cajeput isn’t a
corrupted spelling of an aboriginal name
for Australian Melaleuca leucadendron
trees. In fact, the abos called them
Atchoourgo. For centuries, oil of cajeput
was distilled from their leaves in the
Moluccas. Australia exported the wood
to London in 1886, and in 1908 that
indefatigable ligneous chronicler G. S.
Boulger, F.L.S., F.G.S., F.R.H.S.,
A. 5.1., recommended it to the
Worshipful Company of Carpenters
for ship- and carriage-work. Because
of its creamy bark the Malays
call this tree cayuputi, and that
seems a fair clue to the origin of cajuput,
a common alternative spelling. New
Caledonia calls it niaouli; Borneo calls
it gelam, and it’s tops for boat-knees.
Europe latched-on medically to oil-of-
cajeput as a sudorific in 1717, but the
Chinese were using it for housemaid’s
knee when Confucius was still in short
pants. Cleopatra rubbed it in as a
wrinkle-procrastinator.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Those who insist that
phonetic spelling is practicable might
note the results of attempts to spell
the aboriginal language as spoken. The
printed word informs me that the late
Albert Namitjira was a member of the
Arunta tribe, the Arunda and the
Aroonta. Similarly, tribal executioners
have become “kaditcha”-men, “katitcha”-
men, “katidcha”-men, “kadaitcha”-men
and “kurdaitcha”-men! Nor is such a
mix-up merely of recent origin. Uralla
(N.S.W.) is a comparatively old town;
it is pronounced the same as “Yaralla,”
the historic home of the late Dame
Eadith Walker. To go back almost to
the beginning of white settlement in
Australia, the second town established
is written as “Parramatta”; but the cloth
made there (and which became renowned
throughout the then British Empire) was
“Paramatta-tweed.”


The swirling dust was so thick on a
recent sale-day at Patchewollock
(Vic.) that a stock-agent bought a pen
of lambs not by sight but by touch —
and he had to wait till the sale was over
to find out how many he’d bought!
“Ovis.”
* * * *
“Stromlo”: Territories Minister Paul
Hasluck is tackling, on a small scale,
a problem that has been a reproach to
Australia —the welfare of part-aboriginal
families. Something more than £20,000
is to be spent on a “transitional housing-
project,” comprising eight self-contained
units at “the Alice” for families now
living in shacks and humpies (or,
officially, “sub - standard dwellings”).
Next step for these families is to be
low - cost but fully - European - styled
houses in their own allotments.
* * * *
“Wommadoo”: The often - heard
strains of “Click Go the Shears” set me
wondering where and when the shears
last clicked, as a regular thing, at shear-
ing-time? The last shed of any size that
I know of to employ blade-shearers was
King’s Plains, Glen Innes (N.S.W.). This
station, first explored by and named after
Joseph King, was taken-up in 1837 by
John Vivers. In 1937 the then owner,
Dr. George Vivers, celebrated the cen-
tenary, first by winning the Sydney Cup
with Mestoravon, then by mechanising
the woolshed, which up to that date had
annually employed 20 blade-shearers.
Any more recent contenders for the title
“Last of the Blades”?
* * * *
“Cedar”: Queensland’s first School of
the Air, operating one hour daily from
the Cloncurry flying-doctor base, got
away to a bad start when on the second
day a technical fault at the base prevented
the pupils being heard by the teacher.
Living in town I can pick up the base
on an ordinary broadcast-receiver, but
of course I can’t hear the station being
called. Listening to Miss O’Sullivan
talking with her scattered pupils gave
me a thrill, even though I couldn’t hear
their replies. It is fitting that Cloncurry
should have been chosen for this first
school, as it was here, in the back of
the Presbyterian Church, that Flynn and
Traeger set up Australia’s first flying-
doctor service in 1928.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Many years ago on
Southern Monaro (N.S.W.) I used to be
sent for a billycan of treacle or golden-
syrup. The grocer turned a tap in a
parrel and the stuff ran out. I doubt
jf you can buy treacle or golden-syrup
m bulk like this anywhere today, though
you can buy bulk-honey. I’m wondering
a !so if there is any place in any part
°f the country where you can still buy
golden-syrup in the long 71b. can fitted
w ith a handle, so that when the contents
had been used the can served as a
oillycan.
MIGRANT BIRDS-WHY?
.
X HE discovery of a powerful antibiotic
m krill—the minute crustacean life
on which penguins and other polar
creatures feed—may give a clue to a
problem that has never been satisfac-
tonly answered: Why do certain birds,
animals and fishes migrate?
With some birds it looks simple
enough. The sea-birds that nest in the
Antarctic islands during the southern
spring and summer obviously must leave
the nesting-sites when the southern
winter brings intolerable weather-condi-
tions and reduces the food-supply. They
must move northwards ; but it doesn’t
follow that they should continue in that
direction indefinitely. They can cope
with cold; apparently they prefer it.
So a winter in the 30-to-40-degree
latitudes should be ideal from a tem-
perature aspect, and the waters around
the southern coasts of the Southern
Hemisphere continents could surely feed
a much larger bird-population than they
are called upon to support.
But few Antarctic sea-birds seem to
stay in the temperate latitudes, and often
those that appear to limit their northern
range are the ones that would seem best
equipped for longer flights. Some of
the big albatrosses and petrels, with
wing-spans from 7ft. to lift., may spend
the southern winter circling the globe
in approximately the latitudes of southern
Australia, while smaller sea-birds, such
as some of the storm-petrels, move well
"Bet there's a pub over the next rise!"
up into the tropics and probably cross
the Equator. That seems a strange
yearning for sea-birds in which the
homing instinct is so strong that only
death will prevent their return to the
Antarctic the following spring.
The Arctic-tern, which nests inside
the Arctic Circle, travels even further.
It may have the longest migratory range
of any bird or animal. Birds of this
species banded as nestlings in northern
Canada have been captured a few months
later in West Africa, on their way south.
It seems certain that this bird travels
across the North Atlantic to Europe and
down the west coast of Africa to the
Antarctic, reaching there in time to begin
the return journey,
That trip down the coasts of two
continents may seem somewhat shel-
tered; but in 1950 Arctic-terns were
found resting on both Heard and
Macquarie Islands, and four years later
one was found in Victoria. A storm-
killed bird, found at Bunbury (W.A.) in
1927 was one of this species, and since
then Arctic-terns have been seen at Peli-
can Point, Crawley, on the Swan River,
The birds that visit us come from Siberia
and Norway; some of them must travel
U P t 0 2 . 4 ’000 miles each year—a remark-
able flighf for birds that begin their
first lon S fll § ht when the y’ re on} y a few
months old.
These migratory movements pose two
questions: Why do birds and animals
travel such long distances? How do
they find their way home so unerringly?
In some, notably the Arctic-terns and
some of the dotterels that migrate, from
the Arctic to southern Australia, the
reason may be connected with this dis-
covery of the antibiotic ingredient of
certain polar-life. It has long been
recognised that nowhere else in the
world is life so abundant as in the
fringes of the Arctic and Antarctic
Circles. Life there is temporarily sus-
pended when the polar icecaps reach out
and freeze the waters in which that life
abounds; but just as trees, which lie
dormant in winter, bud-burst in a power-
ful return of energy in spring, so life
in those polar waters surges with the
returning warmth and the deep-plough-
ing by the boisterous winds of the high
latitudes. Then life is rich for the re-
turning wanderers; and the attraction
that is powerful enough to recall them
over thousands of miles of ocean may
hold a similar lure for travellers from
the opposite ends of the globe. Those
waters may supply a basic need for
which birds will keep travelling until
they find it.
JACK WALKERDEN.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. I). Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
FWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY.
Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
COAL AND THE COAL-MERGER
/"\ne of the first wayward
thoughts to come to mind
when considering the proposal
for a merger between J. and A.
Brown and Abermain Seaham
Collieries, Ltd. (that’s its
correct title), and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd., is the hope
that, when the merger is com-
plete, the name “Caledonian”
is not tacked on the end of J.
and A. B.’s already lengthy and
unwieldy nameplate. It is made-
up of three merged interests
now, and the possibility of a
fourth name would be forbid-
ding even to those used to the
lengthy and repetitive titles of
old firms of family solicitors.
When Caledonian took-over
Cessnock Collieries last year it
was simply on a share-exchange
basis, involving no merging of
identities.
J. and A. Brown is the bigger
co. of the two both as regards
its own capital and production.
It is proposed by the chairmen
of both cos. that J. and A.
Brown shareholders be offered
five £1 ords. in a new holding-
co. for every four now held,
and Caledonian 'shareholders
share for share.
Holders of the 6 p.c. prefs.
in Caledonian will be asked to
exchange them for 7 p.c. prefs.
in the new holding-co.
Present capital of J. and
A. Brown is 2,375,000 in £1
ords. Caledonian’s issue is
1,384,511 £1 ords. and 464,295
£1 prefs.
Capital of the new holding-
co. would be about £4,820,000,
all but £464,295 of it in ords.
Caledonian is a partly-owned
subsidiary of Howard Smith,
Ltd., and more than a quarter
of the shares in J. and A.
Brown are held by Adelaide
Steamship, a relic of the old
Abermain-Seaham days.
the merging of the
** Brown and Caledonian in-
terests, the new holding-co.
will be the dominating figure in
the Newcastle and Maitland
coalfields. The western and
southern N.S.W. collieries will
remain independent of this
combination.
J. and A. Brown has made
a splendid comeback in the
coalmining industry over the
past decade. Under the new
“If you can, dear, always make a point of collecting
the money from the man and giving the change to
his poor wife.”
taxation and price-control regu-
lations not only has profit-
earning in the industry im-
proved, but methods have been
modernised and mechanised,
with the result that the price
of coal has been reduced and
some export-markets have been
gained. One of the hindrances
to further development of ex-
port-trade have been the
coal-loading facilities at New-
castle, which the State Govern-
ment refuses to modernise, even
though the coal companies have
offered to pay for the capital-
outlay themselves.
The average f.o.r. price of
black coal, colliery and open-
cut, has dropped from 645. 6d.
a ton in 1953 to 555. 4d. in
1959. In the same time the
average price of coal shipped
from Newcastle has fallen from
82s. 3d., f.0.b., to 765. Bd.
This despite the increase in
wages costs in that time. The
reason has been the greater
efficiency achieved through in-
creased mechanisation, shown
in the rise in the manshift
output of 3.28 tons for all
N.S.W. mines in 1953 to 4.93
tons in 1959.
In its last annual report the
Joint Coal Board said that the
outlook for N.S.W. coal in the
’sixties was for rising demand,
reduced costs (“some reductions
will be dramatic”), and the de-
velopment of some new large-
scale mines.
It said, furthermore, that the
prospect for the immediate
future is that the productive
efficiency of the industry will
continue to increase at a greater
rate than will the demand for
coal. For some time there will
be a persisting tendency for
supply to exceed demand. The
industry is headed in the right
direction, but will not pass out
of existing difficulties for some
time.
“Not the least of the diffi-
culties which must be faced in
the next few years is the fact
that some existing collieries
will probably, close, but be-
fore that happens, in the
struggle to retain a foothold in
the market, they may injure the
industry which remains.” In
the view of the board, there will
be no producer in existence in
N.S.W. in 10 years’ time—-
possibly less—whose pit-top
costs exceed the equivalent of
50s. per ton in terms of today’s
money-values. It adds that
“unfortunately today there
are more than a few collieries
where costs are very much in
excess of this figure.”
Tts summing-up of the future
is interesting, and relevant
to the present merger:
The N.S.W. coal industry faces
big changes in the next 10 years.
Its position at present is one of
unprecedented strength; it is tech-
nically strong, it is financially
strong; it is in a position where
it can carry-out its obligations to
the community with assurance and
with efficiency. These are things
which it should always be possible
to say about the N.S.W. coal indus-
try, which is, and is likely to remain,
the major source of energy for Aus-
tralia, and to remain the only source
of the principal chemical reagent
of the great Australian steel indus-
try. But its bad record in the
second quarter of this century
reminds us that the N.S.W. coal
industry did not always enjoy its
present proud position. It behoves
all concerned, the community hist
and foremost, as well as the pro-
prietors and all those engaged in
the industry, to ensure that the
industry remains always efficient,
vigorous and prosperous.
During 1958-59 J. and A.
Brown and Abermain Seaham
turned-out 1,834,000 tons of
coal, and Caledonian (exclud-
ing Cessnock) 1,008,000 tons.
The two groups, under the
present amalgamation scheme,
would produce more than
3,000,000 tons a year, com-
pared with last year’s output
of 3,414,000 tons by the
B.H.P. group and 2,521,000
tons by State-owned mines.
/ _ '\ne of the great aids to
more efficient production in
the coal industry was the
amendment, in December, 1951,
of the Income Tax Assessment
Act so as to allow expenditure
on mining-plant, mine-develop-


-
% <
.
mm £
l| } r S -V,
#»»4 / , *
«»
tv'-^Xv^’^v.^'' ‘
p& v< jlj
•$■ $
4i V' -v
%£<s*
, , <j®f
| ~ ;■ / *;if>
: *.•&*'*•-' 4 stfT
A happier choice for every occasion . . #
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove's TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’i
glorious Murray Valley,
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY...ST AGNES BRANDY
ment, etc., to be claimed as a
deduction from income, as in
other forms of mining. The
greatest benefits were received
by new mines and those which
were undergoing reorganisa-
tion and development, of which
J. and A. Brown was an excel-
lent example.
Another move of great im-
portance was the decision of
the Joint Coal Board, in
January, 1952, to fix coal prices
at a level to allow a profit, be-
fore income-tax, of 6s. a ton,
or 25 p.c. on capital employed
(including general but not
specific reserves), whichever is
the greater. In addition, divi-
dends are limited to 10 p.c.,
unless the approval of the
board is obtained.
Over the eight years to June
30, 1959, J. and A. Brown
appropriated £3,282,000 out of
profits towards tax-free capital-
expenditure under the amended
Division 10 of the Income Tax
Assessment Act, and paid an
8 p.c. dividend out of profits
disclosed at a level which
barely covered the distribution.
In October, 1958, a one-for-
four bonus-issue was made
from assets-revaluation re-
serve, and the final div. for
1958-59 was raised to 10 p.c.
pa.
The proposed merger will
mean, in effect, another one-
for-four bonus-issue to J. and
A. Brown shareholders. This
is one way in which share-
holders are able to participate
in the increased earning-
potential now that capital-
expenditure is likely to be eas-
ing-off. Otherwise special Coal
Board sanction would be
required in order to lift the div.
above 10 p.c.
Caledonian Collieries, with a
large swag of pref.-div. arrears
dating back to the bad old
days to clear-off, was slower to
take full advantage of the new
regulations in the industry, but
it has been paying the
maximum 10 p.c. on its ords.
for the past three years.
Caledonian ords. are sell-
ing at 395., J. and A. Brown at
465.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson
An 11 p.c. interim dividend
from Mauri Bros, and
Thomson has confirmed the
forecast made in B. 6/ 5/ ’59,
when the shares were recom-
mended for three-year holding.
They were then at 48s. Last
week they touched 84s.
As was explained in that
recommendation of nine
months ago, with the co.’s divi-
dend at the rate of 15 p.c. p.a.
in 1952, a one-for-one bonus-
issue was made, after which
the dividend dropped to 8 p.c.,
climbing to 9 p.c. in ’54, to
10 p.c. in ’55 and 11 p.c. in
’56, when another bonus-issue,
one-for-two, “went-off,” and
the div. fell back to 8 p.c.
again.
It has risen by 1 p.c. each
year to the present 11 p.c.
The question now is: Is 11 p.c.
again to be the critical dividend-
factor at which a bonus-issue
will emerge, and, if so, what
size will the issue be?
It is unlikely to be in as high
a ratio as the preceding two —
one-for-one and one-for-two
respectively. During the past
two years Mauri Bros, has
added considerably to its
capital by takeovers, and this,
apart from the previous bonus
additions, would tend to slow-
down the rate.
Ord. capital is at present
£2,145,263.
In 1958-59 the co. issued
ordinary stock with a par-value
of £552,518 in the biggest series
of takeovers in Australia and
N.Z. to date. “Thus,” ex-
plained chairman Don lunor,
“we have entered the field of
stainless-steel fabrication of
equipment required for the
buttermaking, dairying, chemi-
cal, food and papermaking
industries.”
In addition, the co. took-
over Raleigh Preserving and
L. G. Thorne and Co. Pty. pre-
paratory to joining as equal
partners with Crosse and
Blackwell (Holdings), Ltd., of
London, in order to establish
an Australian organisation to
manufacture foods under
Crosse and Blackwell brands.
Since then the Crosse and
Blackwell parent in the U.K.
has been taken-over .by the
world-wide Nestle’s organisa-
tion, but Mauri Bros, are quite
happy about the development.
Chairman Don Junor is now
overseas
For many years C. and B.
and Mauri Bros, were asso-
ciated as joint owners of
Champion’s Vinegar Co.
(Aust.), makers of Champion’s
and Cornwell’s vinegars.
There are now sharemarket
thoughts that the association,
at present indirect, with Nestles
may come still closer to
Mauri Bros.
The Mauri Bros, business
extends throughout Australia
and New Zealand, and it and
its archipelago of subsidiaries
deal in crown-seals, cork, yeast,
malt, vinegar and brewers’,
hotelkeepers’, bakers’ and
bottlers' supplies, as well as
machinery and general shop-
fittings and many other things.
The parent has been reticent
about its consolidated profit-
earning, the net result being
written in one line in the pub-
lished accounts. But share-
holders have been well treated
over the years, and in the last
annual report the chairman
said that it was believed that
the group’s earning-capacity
would be increased satisfac-
torily upon its new activities
“becoming expanded and fully
established in accordance with
our plans.”
As has been said here before,
there are true growth-prospects
in this stock even if they are
not fully exhibited in the pub-
lished accounts. But the bene-
fits which investors are
expecting during the present
year, apart from the div.-lift,
are yet to show-up. If this is
the bonus-issue year, and a one-
for-three bonus-issue were to
come and the div. dropped to
the traditional 8 p.c., the
investor would, income-wise,
be worse-off than before. So
the ratio would need to be
better than one-for-three, or
the posf-bonus div. will need
to be higher than 8 p.c., if a
real and immediate benefit is
to flow to shareholders.
Molybdenite Mining
[From “Henri Marq”]
A/T OLYBDENITE MINING (AUS-
iVJ - tralia), N.L., of Adelaide,
is carrying-out preparatory-
work on the old Wonbah
molybdenite-mine, about 11
miles from Mt. Perry, on the
Bundaberg-Mt. Perry line.
An area has been bulldozed
and graded for the treatment-
plant, and work is in hand for
the retimbering of the old
shaft to within 6ft. of the sur-
face, where there will be
reinforced concrete. The depth
of the shaft at present is 262 ft.
Deadline for production is
end of March. Eighteen men ■
are on the job, but when mining
starts it is expected that there
will be three shifts each of 18
miners.
Later, after the present
“pipe” is in production, the
co. intends opening-up and de-


veloping another “pipe” of 60ft.
(Wonbah is 40ft.) and driving
an adit into a lode, both within
the vicinity. A target of 22
tons of “lig” (MoS2) per week
is aimed at. Molybdenite at
moment is round about £l3OO
a ton.
Molybdenite was first found
on the surface at Wonbah in
1884. No work was done
until 1914; then in 1916 the
Wonbah Molybdenite Com-
pany, with capital of £15,000,
was formed. Production was
carried-out at a profit until
the collapse of the market in
1920. Since then there have
only been periods of spasmodic
production by syndicates mostly
using hand-dressing methods.
Wonbah is the only true
molybdenite - mine in the
world, as it contains no other
minerals but MoS2. The ore
gives 0.66 p.c. per ton, and the
“lig.” is 98 p.c. pure. The pipe
is 60ft. in diameter at depth.
Associated with the quartz at
Wonbah is Iceland-spar. This
is mainly used in optical-work.
A cubic foot of Iceland-spar,
depending on quality, is worth
about £4OO.
All treatment of the ore-
crushing, classification and
flotation will be carried-out at
Wonbah and the finished pro-
duct will then be shipped direct
to overseas and domestic users.
Molybdenite has great heat-
and friction-resistance. It is
used in high-speed drills and
stainless tools and articles,
spark-plugs and pottery ; and,
to a lesser but important de-
gree, as a trace-element in soil-
conditioning.
The co. intends establishing
a modern precipitating-plant in
Mt. Perry. Work is in pro-
gress to draw water from depth
in the old Palmer coppermine
on the Normanby Range. It is
estimated that with this water
running through the troughs
20 tons of clean scrap will yield
14 tons of copper every five
weeks.
Commercial Union Issue
/An July 1 this year the
Commercial Union Assu-
rance Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
will acquire and operate, both
directly and through a number
of wholly-owned Australian
subsidiaries, the long-estab-
lished and diversified fire,
accident and marine business
hitherto conducted by the Aus-
tralian branches of the Com-
mercial Union Assurance Co.
Ltd., London, and of the
following other companies of
the group:
British General Insurance Co.,
Ltd.; Edinburgh Assurance Co.,
Ltd.; Palatine Insurance Co., Ltd.;
Ocean Accident and Guarantee
Corp., Ltd.; Union Assurance
Society, Ltd. (with which is merged
the Australian Union Assurance).
Commercial Union Assu-
rance Co. of Australia will also
acquire from. Commercial
Union Assurance, London, the
whole of the capital and the
business of the Australian
Mutual Fire Insurance Society,
Ltd.
The interest of the London
co. in the new company will
be maintained by a major
shareholding, while other sub-
stantial shareholders will be a
“I’m afraid you'll have to give up smoking ."
number of leading woolbrok-
ing and pastoral-agency houses
associated for many years with
the group through agency
arrangements.
These are Dalgety and Co.;
Elder Smith; N.Z. Loan;
Queensland Primary Producers
Co-op. ; and Roberts Stewart
and Co. (Tas.)
Shortly after the formation
of the Australian co. shares
in it will be offered to the
public. The issue will be
handled by lan Potter and Co.
and Wm. Noall and Son,
members of Melbourne
’Change.
The Lead-bonus
A/Tt. Isa Mines, Ltd.,
workers’ lead-bonus has
been raised to £8 a week in a
recent judgment delivered by
the Queensland Arbitration
Court. Serious thinkers ques-
tion the wisdom of sectional
awards because of their reper-
cussions in other industries,
particularly in primary pro-
duction.
Brisbane Retailers
'Y rET another Brisbane retailer,
Weedmans, Ltd., has had
takeover advances. This was
disclosed in a statement to
Brisbane Stock Exchange by
T. Weedman, chairman of
directors. This time local
retailer T. C. Beirne, of the
Valley is the bidder, offering
750,000 T.C.B. shares of ss.
each.
Weedmans was formed in
1958 to take-pver Curzons from
the Buckingham group. Profit
and dividend in the first year
(to July 30, 1959) were up to
prospectus expectation.
The recent retail trend has
been towards the city rather
than the Valley.
Myers succeeded in its
recent bid for Allan and Stark,
and Waltons are known to be
casting eyes on the “smarter
end of Queen Street.”
Meanwhile Cox Bros, have
yet to secure a footing in the
town.
Rockmans, who recently
acquired Edwards and Lamb,
have been disclosed as the
bidder for Mason Dixon. This
purchase will give Rockmans
an Adelaide-street frontage as
well as a Queen-street entrance.
Reid Murray has made its
long-awaited move into Bris-
bane’s electrical retailing fieid
by taking over Andersons, in
the Valley. Negotiations are
being carried on at present
with a Surfers Paradise group—
Tele Hire, a company operat-
ing 600 hire-T.V.-sets on the
Gold Coast.
Taking stock of the remain-
ing stores, one finds that Mc-
Donnell and East and Barry
and Roberts are the surviving
listed retail stores, whilst
Chandlers is the sole listed
electrical retailer.
National Minerals
An interim div. of Is. 3d. a
share, tax-free, is coming
from National Minerals Hold-
ings. Ltd., on March 7.
In spite of difficulties being
experienced by all those
engaged in the production and
sale of rutile, the co. has in-
creased consolidated net profit
for the half-year ended
December 31, 1959, as com-
pared with the same period in
1958.
Diversification of activities
has been responsible for this
overall improvement, despite
the slump in the rutile market,
which is likely to affect trading
during 1960, as there is still no
improvement in world prices.
Following the purchase last
July of the A. F. Toll transport
and Customs-agency business
in Newcastle, National has
now acquired the Wickham
freehold premises necessary for
consolidation, and contem-
plates an extensive building-
programme to make full use of
the purchase. This last acquisi-
tion will entail the issue of
approximately 25,000 fully-paid
shares to the vendors in addi-
tion to a cash consideration,
full details of which, will be
announced shortly.
On February 19 Minister for
Mines, J. B. Simpson, will offi-
cially open the new dredge
“Titian” at the co.’s Redhead
lease, and it will be able to
supply all requirements of the
separation-plant at Wickham
for many years.
The new dredge is expected
to give the co. the lowest costs
in the industry. But some
orderly-marketing scheme is
necessary among producers to
make rutile prices generally
profitable. A rise of £lO a
ton would probably be enough,
and this would worry neither
the processor nor the consumer
so long as everyone knew that
it was the minimum price.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN <fc CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Pinero Revived
Sir Arthur Wing Pinero is
doubtless guilty of most of the
dramaturgical sins he has for so
long been accused of: a coun-
terfeit courting of Ibsenism ;
pretensions to social analysis
and realistic characterisation
which are rarely substantiated ;
faint-heartedness in the face of
real evil in most of his plays—
all the crippling repressions of
so much conventional morality
—a refusal to investigate
causes deeper than his audi-
ences wanted him to ; and over-
use of stock devices such as the
coincidence.
Shaw, who said several un-
complimentary things about
Pinero, once dubbed him “a
humble and somewhat belated
follower of the novelists of the
middle of the 19th century.”
Nonetheless, Melbourne’si
first look for many years at this
probably underrated English
playwright proved, to this
reviewer at least, an altogether
enlightening experience. More-
over, the current production of
his “The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray” at the Melbourne Arts
Theatre underlines convincingly
the extent to which a play’s
weaknesses can be minimised
by intelligent and vital staging.
The performance could be
described as a near-triumph for
Monica Maughan in the subtly
written title-role, and, to a lesser
extent, for producer Brian
Crossley.
Her voice in perfect harmony
with the great diversity of mood
and gesture that the part re-
quires, Miss Maughan pre-
sented a thoroughly convincing
characterisation of a woman
who wasted her life away (to
the extent of suicide) trying to
come to terms with the con-
flicting counsel of her head and
her heart.
Paula Tanqueray has a none-
too-respectable past, and the
play traces her pathetic
attempts to adjust herself to an
only-too-respectable present.
The problem posed, but not
necessarily tackled, may be
reduced to a question of which
was the more vulgar attitude
to life: the moral “looseness”
of Paula’s background or the
puritanical conformist repres-
siveness of her new environ-
ment.
The confusion of values is
sharply defined in the various
characters’ notions about such
things as respectability, purity,
amorality, licentiousness and
that state of being which each
seems to hold as best and most
noble of all —virginity.
Adding to the confusion, sex
—that unutterably dirty word—
is not once mentioned, except
through shy innuendo, though
it is hard to imagine Pinero
denying that the world he has
depicted is founded and tragi-
cally founders on that very
reality.
While the playwright is con-
cerned mainly with shaping his
characters and outlining their
situations in the first two acts
he reveals himself as a master
of his craft; but in the third,
despite some hesitant attempts
to conduct a little soul-search-
ing and Ibsenish discussion, one
soon gets the uneasy feeling
that Pinero has already said
all he is capable of saying and
that the rest is going to be
little more than an “effective”
prelude to the last curtain.
What Paula says of the
future at one stage in the play
(“it is only the past again—
entered through another door”)
could also be said of Pinero, in
relation to his more forward-
looking contemporaries, and
even several of his predecessors.
He lacked either their insight or
their courage ; but whatever he
lacked, he nevertheless remains
an important figure in the
emergence of the modern
drama, and certainly well
worth attention.
A. S. J.
***
Mackerras and Matthews
At Sydney Town Hall last
Saturday night English violinist
Thomas Matthews played
Britten’s Violin Concerto,
which, because it is so free in
its modernity—often the scor-
ing suggests voice-writing,
although you’d need good
voices to do a C against a
C-flat —is rather hard to
evaluate in comparative terms.
The concert was the first in
the A.B.C.’s Festival of 20th-
century Music ; so Britten was
effectively sandwiched between
Walton, Debussy, Prokofieff
and Stravinsky. But what is
one to say about a concerto
which, more strikingly than
Mendelssohn, goes through
three movements without a
break? Or about the numer-
ous passages where the soloist
really has to work—the strato-
spheric double-stoppings? Or
about the final movement, a
passacaglia which, although
not a readily definable treat-
ment of subject, has some
brass-writing that makes you
sit up?
It can be said, though, that
Matthews played it well,
cutting into the savage sections
with cool precision, and turn-
ing the cadenza into a calcu-
lated showpiece. It would have
been easier to make a clearer
judgment on Matthews if the
orchestra had kept a less for-
ward balance, and this con-
firmed an impression that
Mackerras is essentially a non-
soloist conductor.
There was no mistaking the
bouncing authority of Walton’s
Johannesburg Festival Over-
ture. Mackerras jumped into
it right from the start, point-
ing to the various groups when
he wanted to hear them, most
of the time jogging his feet
comfortably in time to the
music. It is a good and lively
piece, and more than a work-
out for the percussion {plus
Cuban rattles and castanets).
And the Debussy “Rondes de
Printemps” (No. 3 of the third
set of Images), with its basis
of a French folksong and its
liberal fragmentary use of
other such songs, was finely
done.
After interval there were
three movements from Proko-
fieff’s “Romeo and Juliet”
ballet new-style Prokofieff,
for themes abound and, what’s
more, are recognisable as such.
In the “Folk Dance” there is
a swirling and rich array of
native dance - tunes ; the
“Minuet” has a delicious beat
about it; and in “The Death
of Tybalt” the repetitive chord-
sections, initially sounding like
a horrible mistake on some-
one’s part, resolve into a strik-
ing orchestral effect.
Finally there was Stravin-
sky’s “Petrouchka” suite, both
pictorial and brilliantly scored.
It is comparably evocative, in
the downfall of the central-
character, to Moussorgsky’s
“Pictures at an Exhibition.”
But one could never imagine
it played on the piano.
A. W.
*X* ❖
“Western Revue”
On his arrival in Australia,
Hugh O’Brian (alias Wyatt
Earp, that noted playboy of
TV’s Wild West) provided
readers of the Melbourne press
with not a few moments of
incredulous humor —and him-
self with several inches of
useful publicity—when police
and Customs-officials forced
him into open battle over his
world-renowned six-guns.
Needless to say, a com-
promise was eventually reached
—the police deciding to take
charge of the weapons between
performance s —and Mr.
O’Brian’s holsters were seen to
be bulging with their customary
freight of ironmongery when
he opened his “Western Revue”
at the Princess Theatre the
other night.
In terms of sheer noise,
action and “color,” the show
is about as good as you could
wish for. Between his duties
as compere (which he disposed
of very charmingly) the tall,
well - cut Hollywood hero
obliged an adoring TV-primed
audience with his familiar
interpretation of the West —
ranging from enthusiastic bar-
room fisticuffs to a nonchalant
exhibition of gun-slinging.
There were also some moder-
ately entertaining samples of
good, old-fashioned music-hall
—songs, gags and dances from


Gloria Dawn, Elaine McKenna,
Keith Peterson, Frank Cleary,
the Hi-Fi’s and company.
Artbursts
“Eights”
Some artists, whether it is
Vermeer or Percy Lindsay,
Brabazon or Hilder, naturally
do their best work in small
pictures. Many artists habitu-
ally paint beyond their capa-
cities and so are to be found
at their best when they paint
small. And nearly all artists do
fresher work in the small,
sketches which they afterwards
expand into larger canvases.
For all those reasons a show
of small paintings, like Sydney
Macquarie Galleries’ “Show of
Eights,” can often be excep-
tionally rewarding; but this
year’s exhibition is more like a
bargain-counter than a display
of quality in compression, and
it is hard to find any outstand-
ing works.
Adrian Feint’s tiny bottle-
brushes, Murch’s creamy sea-
piece, George Lawrence’s
forceful “Crookhaven Heads”
and Jean Isherwood’s “Morn-
ing” are nearest to the kind of
thing one hopes to find ; and
there are skilful if not remark-
able paintings by other artists
that are certainly good value
for the money.
* * ♦♦♦
Three Young Painters
Abstract art at best has a
vigorous strength and a certain
decorative quality that can be
admired, although never with
the delight induced by work
with a meaning beyond the ab-
stract. At worst it is either dull,
furious or inexplicable ; the last
two definitions frequently sup-
porting each other.
There is, at least, a sort of
middle course which Robert
Curtis, one of the three young
painters now filling Farmer’s
(Sydney) Blaxland Galleries,
seems to be pursuing. He
paints intricately - patterned
abstracts, involved yet cool.
Possibly because the eye takes
in not one painting but a whole
row, there is a suggestion of
“bittiness” in his work,
although in such pieces as “The
Wharf,” “Seascape” and
“Romantic Landscape” he for-
sakes pebbly shapes in favor
of larger fragments.
But a wholesome sense of
color, design and proportion
underlines all his work. The
large “Norwegian Landscape
No. 3” is something of a feat
in sheer design and color: a
large, smoothly-painted ab-
stract, drawing contrasts from
greens and ochres against a
blue-grey foundation.
John Howley’s vigorous gym-
nastics contrast with the Curtis
coolness. Although he has a
big, exciting “Conversation
Piece,” with patches of
brilliant color over a flat black
base, he is chiefly interesting in
the smaller frames. Of these,
“The Birth of Mars” is a
striking thing in blood-red,
“Three Images,” “Composi-
tion” and “The Vision” are
colorful experiments in pris-
matism ; and “New Faces” is
quite a fine darkish little
abstract. A pleasant sense of
balance marks “Standing
Forms,” but Howley tends to
spoil it with a grotesque figure
on the left, outlined in his
special blood-color.
John Stockdale rarely escapes
from the primitive. His ab-
stracts are written in a child’s
language—big, bold, leaning
heavily on primary tones and
smacking of the playroom. It
is hard to see why the slash-
ing “Crucifixion” was so titled,
except that, in its welter of
variegated daubs, it might con-
ceivably be intended to sug-
gest supreme emotion.
Films
“My Uncle”
Jacques Tati, the French
comedian, has done it again,
There is no shrewder observer
of the human animal in the film
business, and he has here
drawn buckets of comedy out
of a series of situations in
which he satirises the modern
bent for living by and with
gadgets, electric-eyes, buzzers,
buttons and uncomfortable
modernistic furniture.
Moving in a constant stream
through the crazy sequences is
as rich a collection of odd
characters —some of them
strikingly like the inhabitants
of Emile Mercier's cartoons —
as could be got together;
Tati’s handling of dogs and
kids is invested with a warm
sympathy for those insepar-
ables, and his human touch in
other ways is at times exquisite.
Tati plays one of his own
odd characters, living a free-
and-easy life in a tumbledown
attic. The chief delight of his
young nephew, whose parents
live in an ultra-modern archi-
tect’s nightmare filled with
every convenience for discom-
fort, is to go once a week to
Uncle’s place and romp with
the disreputable dogs and the
happy kids, thus escaping the
boredom of an electrically-
managed home-life and his
meticulously fussy parents.
In an effort to redeem his
whimsical and irresponsible
brother-in-law the boy’s father
gives him a job in his auto-
mated plastics-factory ; but his
endeavors are wrecked on the
reefs of contretemps and mal-
adroitness.
Tati uses a restrained slap-
stick, beautifully timed. But,
as in “Monsieur Hulot’s Holi-
day,” it is the clever and
original touches of whimsy and
the rich invention of the asides
that make the film a continu-
ous chuckle which at times
develops into howls of laughter.
By some subtle means Tati,
who wrote as well as directed
the film, manages to maintain
his customary silence —relying
for his effects on mime, gesture,
expression and mannerisms,
and especially on his tripping,
awkward gait—while everyone
else talks volubly ; a device
that seems as natural as it is
uproarious.
At Sydney Savoy.
❖ ❖ *
“The Mouse That Roared”
In this piece of brilliant tom-
foolery Peter (“Goon Show”)
Sellers moves info Alec Guin-
ness’s multi-character terri-
tory.
First he is the captain of a
band of soldiers from Fenwick,
the smallest country in the
world. On the advice of the
Prime Minister Sellers, Captain
Sellers and his men have to
invade New York. The Prime
Minister is responsible to the
dear old Duchess of Fenwick
(Sellers again) ; so Sellers ad-
vises Sellers who advises
Sellers.
The plan is to lose the war
with America, thereby reaping
huge financial aid. When
Sellers and co. reach New
York —after firing arrows at
two officers on the Queen
Elizabeth —they find the city
deserted ; everyone is in shel-
ters as a compulsory test in
case of atomic war. The wea-
pon is a Q-bomb, developed by
a vague professor whose
daughter (Jean Seberg) eventu-
ally falls for Sellers—Captain
Sellers, that is.
Sellers wins the war by cap-
turing a general, six New York
policemen, the professor, his
daughter and the Q-bomb,
which ticks alarmingly right
through the film. They all go
back to Fenwick, and there
is subsequent international
strain: the bomb, if dropped,
wilL destroy half of Europe.
The satire, aimed principally
at America but with a few
uppercuts in the Russian direc-
tion, is about as subtle as the
giant interpolated explosion
near the end —included, so the
announcer says gravely, to
show what might happen any
moment.
At Sydney Lyceum.


For a truly smart home . . . and
a lower building estimate... use
the world’s strongest
roofing material
Hi
a
a
m
ran
L_Li
oRa
Galvanized
# I Si lill
f II E C T
Your new house can be the showplace of the street
—and yet be the lowest-cost home in the street i
A Lysaght roof makes all the difference, lending itself
readily to the most advanced modern designs, yet giving
you worth-whiie savings compared with competitive
materials.
Completely fire-proof . . . absolutely unbreakable
because Lysaght Red Orb is made especially hard for
roofing purposes. So easy to care for that you can
virtually forget about maintenance problems.
Decide now to investigate the facts and figures on the
beautiful, practical, economical Lysaght roof!
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
Prepainted
Galvanized
Corrugated
Steel Sheet.
Flat Galvanized
Steel Sheet.
Free
low cost home
plans booklet!
Send today for this helpful new
series of practical, low-cost
home plans, especially designed
to suit Australian conditions.
GI6SXC
HOME
PLANS
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.,
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, your new set of low cost home
plans.
ADDRESS -
....... STATE


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Australian National Industries, Ltd.
r T~'HE co.’s latest accounts are a bit of
a paradox. A.N.I. now appears to
have cleared the worst hurdle in its
financial history, following some surgery
last February. The twelve months which
have elapsed since the major organisa-
tional shake-up have witnessed good
progress. The ss. scrip, which fetched
2s. 3d. a year ago, was last quoted at
7s. Id. a unit, to yield 3.5 p.c. on the
basis of a 5 p.c. (indicated) annual div.-
rate.
The accounts for the year ended June
30, 1959, revealed the poorest figures
on record. Consolidated net profit was
£64,672 lower at £18,293, after providing
£165,049 for depreciation (down £2748)
and £5068 for taxation (down
£125,900):
John McGrath and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. /— —Dividends ■, serves. serves.*
£ £ , £ £
Add net reserve adjustments on
reconstruction, £1,358,765 .. 2,119,138
Reserves capitalised, £750,000 .. .. 1,369,138
’51..351,722 10.1 p.c. = 165,000 186,722 1,555,860
’52.. 349,014 8 p.c. = 133,333 215,681 1,771,541
Reserves added on purchase of outside
interests, £10,298 1,781,839
Unexplained additions, £8337 .. .. 1,790,176
’53.. 162,642 8 p.c. = 160,000 2,642 1,792,818
Reduction in stock reserve, £485 .. 1,792,333
Tax overprovided, £40,789 .. .. 1,833,122
Share premiums, £625 .. .. 1,833,747
’54.. 242,032 8 p.c. = 171,823 70,209 1,903,956
Unexplained addition, £775 .. . . 1,904,731
’55.. 310,326 8.3 p.c. = 208,333 101,993 2,006,724
’56.. 284,274 8.3 „ ~208,333 75,941 2,082,665
Australian National Industries and Subsidiaries.
’s7f. 168,029 5 „ ~125,000 43,029 2,125,694
Capital gain, £60,878 .. .. .. 2,186,572
’58.. 82,965 3.5 p.c. = 87,500 2,182,037
Capital gain, £52,708 . . . . . . 2,234,745
Stocks written-down, £242,939 . . 1,991,806
’59.. 18,293 18,293 2,010,099
* Subject to intangibles, £1,377,013 at 31/7/’59.
f 15 months for all but one operating subsidiary.
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of only 0.7 p.c. on the unchanged average
ordinary capital, compared to 3.3 p.c.,
6.7 p.c. and 11.4 p.c. looking back over
three years to 1956.
On the brighter side was £52,708
capital-profit made on the sale of certain
assets, including the subsidiary, Beverly
Bright Steel Pty. and the co.’s holding
in P. C. Miller Forgings Pty. After
balance-date the now-redundant sub-
sidiary Industrial Insurance, Ltd., was
sold.
This helped to cushion the effect of the
£242,939 write-down of current stocks,
on reserves, whittled-down by £171,938
to £2,010,099 (subject to £1,377,013
intangibles).
The painful operation with stocks
became necessary after the Rootes range
of vehicles was swapped for a somewhat
more limited Ford franchise (covering
Consul, Prefect, Anglia and Thames),
leaving a considerable legacy of “dead”
merchandise on hand.
The stock write-down was only one
of the sweeping reforms that reorganised
A.N.l.’s operational framework in
February, 1959, but came too late to
affect the financial results to June 30 last.
Australian National Industries, Ltd.,
operates through four manufacturing and
three merchandising subsidiaries. The
group's activities fall into three distinct
parts merchandising of steel and
engineering-products, distribution of cars
and commercial vehicles, and manufac-
ture of drop- and press-forgings, special
steels, re-rolled sections and precision-
machined components.
Until last February A.N.l.’s organisa-
tion formed a sprawling and rather ill-
knit group, with far too much autonomy
for the subsidiaries. Lack of adequate
central control" and direction had re-
sulted in inefficiency. Only some of the
group’s units contributed to consolidated
earnings, and these had to support the
weaker links in the structural chain. The
former framework was also defective
from the tax-payment point of view.
Some subsidiaries were making profits,
others losing money. But they were all
taxed individually on their earnings, so
that in most cases losses sustained by
some members of the group had no
effect on the consolidated tax-bill.
Profits and earning-rates began slip-
ping in 1953, with a short recovery in
1955. Since then the downward trend
accelerated annually.
Big share-capital increases (tenfold in
the last 13 years, about half of that in
bonus-scrip under cover of capital-recon-
struction) were not profitably digested,
and A.N.I. became over-capitalised:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital . .£ 2,500,000 £ 2,500,000 £ 2,500,000
Reserves .. ■ ,2,125,694 2,182,037 2,010,099
Outside interests .. 4,023
Notes . . .. 480,000 460,000 440,000
Overdraft .. 1,537,097 1,093,979 731,690
Creditors . . . . 892,447 950,789 998,578
Unexpired risks .. 10,906 9,923 9,347
Tax provision .. 156,413 220,635 6,873
Final divs. . . 62,500 25,000
£7,769,080 £7,442,363 £6,696,587
Freehold properties 1,684,915 1,678,380 1,662,626
Plant . . . . 969,719 1,018,363 979,074
Shares in other cos. 34,000 48,375 4,000
Stocks . . . . 2,695,464 2,326,399 1,871,518
Debtors . . .. 975,060 960,812 739,310
Cash .. .. 44,284 32,987 63,046
Intangibles .. 1,365,638 1,377,047 1,377,013
£7,769,080 £7,442,363 £6,696,587
Since the new managing-director was
appointed, the co. has closed its city
administrative offices in Sydney and
Melbourne, transferring the necessary
staff to its manufacturing and merchan-
dising-centre at Lidcombe (N.S.W.). Two
subsidiaries and other assets not essential
for business-operations were sold. The
managerial and administrative system
was streamlined and duplication eradi-
cated. Specialist appointments were made
in finance, control, market-research and
sales-promotion, personnel and public-
relations branches.
Today the picture is said to be “one
of expanding sales and increasing
profits.” Turnover is claimed to have
risen by £2,000,000 to £12,000,000 p.a.
In place of a holding-co. with a number
of semi-autonomous trading subsidiaries,
A.N.I. became “a tightly-knit organisa-
tion.”
The group obtained a £250,000 short-
term advance to help finance its £340,000
R.A.A.F. contract. Overdraft was re-
duced by £362,289. Creditors increased
by £47,789 to £998,578 (including the
term-loan).
Book-value of plant was £39,289 lower
at £979,074, showing the effect of heavy
depreciation provisions. Debtors and
stock fell heavily, following the write-off.
Intangibles remained heavy at £1,377,013.
Net tangible asset-backing worked-out
at 6s. 3d. for a ss. unit of the one-class
£2,500,000 paid-capital at balance-date.
Theoretical working-capital was £927,386
and liquidity satisfactory.
A.N.l.’s forging-equipment is said to
include the largest press- and hammer-
forges in the Southern Hemisphere.
Current production exceeds the combined
output of all other forges in Australia
and supplies “more than 70 p.c. of the
forging-requirements” of Australia’s ex-
panding motor - vehicles manufacturing
industry.
Recently A.N.I. acquired a controlling-
interest in J. and C. Johnson Bros. Pty.
(a Melbourne metal-merchant and engi-
neer) for 147,646 ss. ords. and an
undisclosed amount of- cash. This
transaction, which will provide the
group’s Melbourne Iron and Steel Mills
Pty. with its own supply of scrap-metal,
increased paid-capital to £2,536,912.
Not yet a glamor-stock by any
means, A.N.I. seems to be on its way
to recovery and profitable trading. If
the present favorable trends continue
the next set of accounts, giving the
current term’s results, should prove a
contrast to last year’s figures. The
turning-point of the group’s fortunes has
been passed. A most encouraging sign
is this year’s 2\ p.c. interim-div. All
subsidiaries are now said to be operating
at a profit, and hopes are rising that the
indicated annual 5 p.c. div.-rate may
be exceeded.
Union Carbide Australia, Ltd.
(Formerly Ximbrol, Ltd.)
HPHE co. was formed in 1957 by the
* merger of Timbrol, Ltd., with the
Australian interests of Union Carbide
Corporation of U.S.A. (on a 40 p.c.-
60 p.c. basis). Following the amalgama-
tion, Timbrol became one of the two
main operating subsidiaries, joined in
1958 by Eveready Aust. Pty., acquired
for 1,290,470 20s. ords. issued at a
premium of £816,655.
Union Carbide manufactures a wide
range of agricultural, industrial and fine
chemicals (including hormone weed-
killers, deodorants, wood-preservatives,
paints, disinfectants, plasticisers, asphalt
flooring-tiles and D.D.T.), dry-cell
batteries, ore - grinders, metal - rollers,
etc. As part of the £23-million
petrochemical industry being established
at Aitona (Vic.) the co. is erecting a
polyethylene plant with an initial pro-
ductive capacity of 15,000,0001 b.
annually. The new plant is scheduled
to commence commercial production in
the first half of 1961. It is being built


Through the Board of Directors in London, the
Commercial Union Assurance Company Limited
announces a major reorganisation of its Australian business, to conform with the
marked growth in recent years of Australia’s population, prosperity and national
prestige.
A company, incorporated in Australia, is to be formed on July Ist. this year
with the title of the COMMERCIAL UNION ASSURANCE COMPANY OF AUS-
TRALIA LIMITED. It will acquire and operate, both directly and through a
number of wholly owned Australian subsidiary companies, the long established
and diversified Fire, Accident and Marine insurance business hitherto conducted
by the Australian branches of the Commercial Union Assurance Company Ltd. and
of the following other companies of the Group:—
British General Insurance Company Ltd.
Edinburgh Assurance Company Ltd.
Palatine Insurance Company Ltd.
The Ocean Accident & Guarantee Corporation Ltd.
Union Assurance Society Ltd. (with which is merged the
Australian Union Assurance)
The Commercial Union Assurance Company of Australia Ltd. will also acquire
from the Commercial Union Assurance Company Ltd. the whole of the capital
and the business of the Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society Limited.
The Commercial Union Assurance Company of Australia Ltd. will operate as
an independent organisation under its own Board of Directors and Management.
The interest of the Commercial Union Assurance Company Ltd. in the new company
will, however, be maintained by a major shareholding, while other substantial
shareholders will be a number of leading Woolbroking and Pastoral Agency houses
closely associated for many years with the Group through agency arrangements.
These are:
Dalgety & Company Limited
Elder Smith & Co. Limited
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.
Queensland Primary Producers Co-operative Association
Ltd.
Roberts Stewart & Co. Ltd. of Tasmania
Shortly after the formation of the Commercial Union Assurance Company of
Australia Limited, shares in the Company will also be offered to the public. The
issue will be handled by Messrs. lan Potter & Co. and Messrs. Wm. Noall & Son,
member firms of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Founded in London in 1861, the Commercial Union Assurance Company Ltd.
first established itself in Australia at Sydney in 1865, when it appointed Agents
for Fire underwriting in New South Wales. A Fire Agency for Victoria was estab-
lished in 187 7 and this was followed by the opening of an Australian Branch at
Melbourne in 1 880. Since then the Group has built up a wide scale organisation
operating throughout the Australian Commonwealth, and has provided distinc-
tive contributions to the development of the insurance market here. It has shown
its confidence, by means of substantial investments, in Australian agricultural and
industrial enterprise, for which added security through insurance protection and
service of all kinds has been readily provided.
The new organisation will remain in the present Australian headquarters of
the Group at 409-413 Collins Street, Melbourne, the site having been owned by
the Company since 1 882, and will continue to operate through branch offices in
all other capital cities of the Commonwealth.
Through the reorganisation, a large amount of Australian capital will be intro-
duced into the Australian business of the Group. At the same time, the link will
be preserved with the Commercial Union Assurance Company Ltd., as the parent
Company of one of the world’s largest groups of insurance companies. It is,
moreover, confidently believed that a valuable contribution will be made to
Anglo-Australian financial relations at a significant stage in Australia’s history.


Telegraphic & Cable Address
“Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALXEN
P. R. LEVY
M. B. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911 —(10 lines)
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BWII7I—BW 8088
adjacent to the petrochemical complex
of Vacuum Oil Pty., which has con-
tracted to supply the raw materials.
Polyethylene is used in a widening range
of industrial processes, such as auto-
motive spring-liners, piping, coaxial-
cable insulation and packaging.
Affiliation with Union Carbide Cor-
poration of New York ensures access
to valuable research material and expeit
technical assistance of the powerful
American associate.
A private debenture-issue of £3.75
million to finance the project has been
fully subscribed after balance-date. An
advance amount of £636,000 was
received by June 30, 1959.
Last year’s trading was satisfactory.
Consolidated net profit was almost
identical with the previous term’s,
edging-up by £1291 to £440,866, equi-
valent to a steady 20.2 p.c. on the
average ord. capital, after satisfying
the unchanged pref.-div. requirements
(£5500):
Parent Co.
r Dividends —\ To Re- Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. r Ord. \ serves. serves.
30, 6* p.c. „ „
£ £ £ £ £
’52.. 65,146 5500 8 p.c. = 40,174 19,472 200,223
Assets revalued, £80,374 .. •• 280,597
’53.. 62,663 5500 8 p.c. 55,211 1,952 282,549
Parent and Subsidiary.
Profit sale land, £41,279 .. . . 323,828
’54..184,186 5500 10 p.c. = 86,031 92,655 416,483
’55..159,318 5500 10 „ „ 86,032 67,786 484,269
’56..117,503 5500 10 „ „ 80,031 25,972 510,241
Union Carbide Australia, Ltd.
’57..158,385 5500 10 p.c. = 86,032 66,853 577,094
Share-premiums, £816,655 . . . . 1,393,749
Assets-revaluation, £llB4 .. .. 1,394,933
’58.-439,575 5500 10 p.c. =215,078 218,997 1,613,930
’59..440,866 5500 10 „ ~215,078 220,288 1,834,218
* Subject to intangibles, £222,437 at June 30, 1959.
The profit was struck after deducting
all manufacturing, distributing and
administrative expenses and undisclosed
consolidated provisions for depreciation
and taxation. The parent co.’s deprecia-
tion figure was revealed at £202,753 (up
£11,053). This must very closely
approximate the consolidated write-off,
because there is only a slight difference
between parent and consolidated book-
values of fixed assets (disclosed at
£2,043,472, but unfortunately lumped
together without showing the specific
book-figures for individual items such as
freeholds, plant, construction-in-progress,
etc.).
Ordinary dividend was steady at 10
p.c., absorbing £215,078. Reserves
received £220,288 and totalled £1,834,218
at balance-date, subject to £222,437
intangibles.
Liquidity improved, net current assets
rising by £186,366 to £2,285,092. Current
ratio was 2.5 to 1. Bank-overdraft dis-
appeared and sundry creditors and tax-
provision was £46,442 down at £791,871.
Book-value of fixed assets increased by
£43,922. Current stocks went up by
£171,269, but book-debts were £214,894
lower at £986,088. Cash, etc., jumped
by £762,886 to £771,791 following the
receipt of advance subscriptions for the
privately placed debentures. Cash-
balances should decrease as loan funds
are being directed into the construction
of the polyethylene plant:
Paid capital—- 1957. 1958.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord .. 860,313 2,150,783 2,150,783
Reserves .. .. 577,094 1,613,930 1,834,218
Loan .. .. 412,000 456,000 466,000
Overdraft .. • • 88,627 56,663
Advance debenture
subscriptions . . 636,000
Creditors, tax pro- _ _ „„„
vision . . . . 370,098 838,313 791,871
Final dividends . . 45,766 110,289 110,289
£2,453,898 £5,325,978 £6,089,161
Land, buildings,
plant . . . . 1,157,815 1,999,550 2,043,472
Stock . . . . 889,160 1,894,104 2,065,3i3
Debtors, etc. . . 375,385 1,200,982 986,088
Cash, bonds . . 712 8,905 771,791
Intangibles .. 30,826 222,437 222,437
£2,453,898 £5,325,978 £6,089,161
The co.’s scope of business should be
widened when the Altona project
begins producing next year. However,
competition in the petrochemical in-
dustry is intense and whirlwind profits
cannot be expected. Extension and
modernisation of existing plant continues,
and expansion plans are said to be “pro-
ceeding to schedule.”
Thus far, Union Carbide has been
leaning on external finance to supple-
ment its industrial-development plans.
However, the ambitious nature of its
capital - investments may give share-
holders the coveted opportunity to in-
crease their holdings of Union Carbide’s
scrip.
Reserves include £816,655 share-
premiums and £178,622 assets-revalua-
tion reserve.
Net tangible asset-backing is
£3B 12s. 6d. for the 5 p.c. 20s. f.-p.
prefs., which last fetched 18s. 7d. on the
Sydney ’Change. The 20s. f.-p. ords.
(visibly backed by 355. of net tangibles)
last changed hands at 945. 6d. a unit. The
immediate yield for this leading stock
was a “blue-chip low” 2.1 p.c., on the
basis of the unchanged 10 p.c. div.-rate.
H. G. Palmer (Consolidated), Ltd.
Today the H. G. Palmer group looks
back on a decade of lightning expan-
sion. In 10 years the organisation has
expanded to such an extent that it is now
the largest distributor of TV, radio and
electrical appliances in Australia. Retail
stores (there are 57 altogether) have been
established in N.S.W., Queensland, Vic.,
S.A. and the A.C.T.—-until 1958, opera-
tions were confined solely to N.S.W
Overall, 15 new stores were opened during
last term, and at the moment four more
are under construction. Three months
ago, H. G. Palmer attempted invasion of
W.A. An unsuccessful bid in cash was
made for Rowleys Pty., of Perth. Obvi-
ously H. G. Palmer contemplates further
expansion.
In large measure H. G. Palmer’s
expansion has been possible through
external borrowings, but even so capital-
growth has been dramatic. The first
public-co. balance-sheet showed paid
capital at £34,000, the second at £189,375.
Remaining stationary for three years,
capital then jumped to £339,375. An
issue of £150,000 in prefs. for cash was
the only further change until 1958. In
November, 1957, there was a bonus-issue
(five-for-four) of £199,219 to ord.-holders.
In July, 1958, another issue of 478,125
bonus ss. ords. (one-for-three), represent-
ing £119,531, was distributed from asset-
revaluation reserves. In August of the
same year, 956,250 ss. ords. issued at par
(two-for-three) brought-in £239,062. In
October the same year, 100,000 ords. of
ss. each were issued at a premium of ss.
a? part-consideration for the business of
Music Masters Radio, Brisbane. In May,
1959, 989,583 ss. ords. were issued at par
(one-for-three, ss. stock-units) and about
the same time £250,000 of 10 p.c. prefs.
were issued for cash.
By the end of last term, paid capital, as
a result of these additions, had grown to
£1,569,584, of which £580,000 was in
10 p.c. prefs., the rest in ords.
In October of the current term a
further £250,000 of 10 p.c. prefs. were
issued for cash.
Keeping pace with geographical expan-
sion and capital-growth, profit has more
than trebled since 1956. H. G. Palmer’s
income comes not only from merchandis-
ing but also from service [the after-sales
service provided by the group has been
developed in line with retail expansion,
and modern service factories have been
built at Marleston (S.A.) and at
Moorabbin (Vic.)] and finance (the group
undertakes provision of substantial h.-p.
facilities, and, in addition owns a major
share-interest in Hire Purchase Securities,
Ltd.).
Last term selling-drives on an unpre-
cedented scale sent turnover of merchan-
dise to record levels, and consolidated
net profit rose to an all-time high,
£301,494 (up £51,347):
Consolidated Figures.
—Dividends ——^
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.e. 10 p.c. serves. serves*
£ £ £ £ £
1952.. 31,729 1,800 15,938 13,991 39,622
1953.. 71,755 1,800 15,938 54,017 93,639
1954. .100,676 1,800 15,938 82,937 176,576
6 p.c., 7J p.c.
1955. .101,536 7,702 15,938 77,897 254,473
1956.. 96,170 13,050 15,938 67,182 321,655
Assets revalued, £335,789 .. . . 657,445
1957. .131,318 13,050 15,938 102,330 759,774
Reserves capitalised, £199,219 .. 560,555
6 p.c.,
7J p.e., 10 p.c.,
1958. .250,147 25,099 35,860 189,188 749,743
Share premiums, £25,000 .. .. 774,743
Reserves capitalised, £119,531 .. 655,212
10 p.c. 121 p.c.
1959. 51,750 84',782 164,962 820,174
* Subject to intangibles; £495,132 at 30/6/’59.
Ascertained after putting aside £174,085
(up £20,727) for taxation and £91,843 (up
£41,770) for depreciation, the profit


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. E. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 312761 <4 tines)
P.O. Box No. 1887 W
Ilii
■
i tor
■ ■ *s»S»r£ xj:*##:
•s??> . : C”X:
iH?
“Relaxed? ni say
I’ve appointed
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE”
“By appointing ‘Perpetual’ to manage
my estate I know that I have done the best
thing by my family and business.
“ ‘Perpetual’ has the knowledge and
facilities to ensure that when Pm no longer
around to handle things, my affairs will be
managed just as I plan .... It’s certainly
a good feeling.”
‘Perpetual’s’ specialised advice and
constant guidance are available to you.
Simply call and have a confidential discus-
sion with a Senior Officer he will be
happy to help you. Ring B 0377 today.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCH OFFICE: A M P. BUILDING, CNR. KEIKA AND
MARKET STS., WOLLONGONG.
OFFICES ALSO AT ORANGE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M L.C. BUILDING, PBTEIB gTBBICT. CANBBBKA CIU
works-out a solid 36.8 p.c. on
average ord. capital, allowing
for the prefs., against 62.7, 74.2
and 52.1 p.c. back to 1956. The
lowered earning-rate, when due
regard is given to increased
capital, is an outstanding per-
formance. Shareholders’
equity rose from £688,594 to
£1,569,583 in the 12 months to
June 30 last.
Despite increase of the ord.
div.-rate —previously 10 p.c.
now 12y p.c.—total distribu-
tion to shareholders took only
45 p.c. of net earnings. The
balance remaining £164,962,
plus £25,000 from share pre-
miums (the Music Masters
Radio deal), less £119,531
capitalised (the July, 1958,
bonus-share issue) found its
way to reserves which, in
consequence, rose £70,431 to
£820,174. Reserves are sub-
ject to £495,132 intangibles.
Granted a scintillating record
so far, and granted, too, con-
tinuance of managerial effi-
ciency, can H. G. Palmer hope
to perpetuate present patterns
of profitability? Primarily de-
pendent on two factors, this
hope will only be materialised
in so far as sales-volume is
maintained and/or increased,
and in so far as credit is not
stretched too far. So far TV has
provided the mass of merchan-
dise sales. Seasonal fluctu-
ations associated with the new
medium have been steadied by
sales of refrigerators, washing-
machines, etc. Can TV be de-
pended upon to sustain
present turnover? The chair-
man says that the Govern-
ment’s method of introducing
TV-transmission in stages
will allow the industry to de-
velop over a period of time. It
is hoped that development of
this nature will have the effect
of consolidating the industry
and maintaining a reasonable
level at all times.
The co. is mindful of the necessity
to maintain a balance of television
sales, and with this in view has used
an analysis x>f market trends which
indicates a full turn of the cycle
in television-manufacture and
tribution in 1968. This could mean
that more television-sets will be sold
in 1968 than in any other year since
its introduction.
Meantime immediate pros-
pects look rosy enough. TV-
transmission has commenced in
S. Queensland and W.A. and
though the available markets
are less extensive than those of
Vic. and N.S.W., opportunities
should be considerable.
Balance-sheet analysis high-
lights the magnitude of finan-
cial developments:
Consolidated Figures.
Capital— 1958. 1959.
Prof. .. £330,000 £580,000
Ol d. . . 358,594 989,583
Reserves . . 749,743 820,174
Outside interests 16,188 16,660
Secured loans . . 2,259,149 3,393,961
Unsecured loans 22,436 18,085
Fixed-deposit
notes . . 3,648,126 7,411,836
Mortgages . . 218,105 279,052
Sundry creditors 377,792 335,135
Overdraft . . -
H.-p. creditors 81,096 80,121
Tax provision.. 153,339 289,840
Final div. .. 34,430 75,387
£8,248,998 £14,289,834
Land, buildings,
plant . . 1,636,090 2,779,574
Premises
advances . . 23,202 65,409
Mortgage loans 3,720 38,542
Shares in co. . . 85,200 85,550
Stock . . . . 1,170,451 1,822,571
T. and
debtors .. 4,606,832 8,533,320
Cash, etc. . . 312,807 469,736
Intangibles .., 410,696 495,132
£8,248,998 £14,289,834
The ever-growing complex of
retail-stores was instrumental
in raising book-values of land,
buildings and plant to
£2,779,574 (up £1,143,484). The
most striking development was
in t.-p. and other debtors—a
lift of £3,926,488 to £8,533,320.
Questions of vulnerability will
not arise so long as sales are
made with reasonable care and
unemployment remains a
minor factor in the economy.
The position is little ditferent
from the h.-p. business as a
whole. The group’s borrowings
—per medium of registered
fixed-deposit notes, secured and
unsecured loans and mortgages
—exceeded £ll million, almost
£5 million more than for the
preceding year.
H. G. Palmer is still expand-
ing rapidly. Diversification is
adding quality to quantity. The
service activity can be expected
to make a very real contribu-
tion in the current term. In-
vestors are optimistic, and last
week the ss. stock-units fetched
14s. 4d. on ’Change, yield at
this price working out at 4.4
p.c. from the 12| p.c. div. The
£1 prefs. last traded at 225. 6d.
to yield 8.9 p.c. Net tangible
backing for the ords. is 6s. Bd.;
for the prefs. 655. 4d.
W. T. Coggins Holdings
HThis prosperous and ener-
getic distributor of Holden
and Bedford cars and com-
mercia! vehicles fared reason-
ably well last term in spite of
highly competitive trading-con-
wr • rw o
TLJ. b°-| mS y " f
the main Sydney metropolitan
distributors for the full range
of Holdens which hold almost
50 p.c. of the total Australian
market.
Another good agency-line is
British Bedford trucks and vans
in the County of Cumberland.
Bedford trucks (a General
Motors product manufactured
by Vauxhall Motors in U.K.)
sell well in Australia. Recently
a new extended range of models
was introduced enabling the co.
to cater for almost all transport
requirements from the small
10-cwt. vans to the large 10-ton
trucks.
Motor-vehicles distribution is


INVEST WITH SAFETY
n
%
DEPOSITS MAY BE WITHDRAWN ON
30 DAYS' NOTICE
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
SALES FINANCING OF FAMOUS PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY THE
JhistmasfllcerMa (^rcuff
FORD
CATERPILLAR
HYSTER
A.E.C.
FORDSON
LANZ
JOHN DEERE
LISTER
• CIRCULAR NO. 4 dated 30/9/59 with audited balance
sheet as at 30/6/59 available from:
All Members of the Stock Exchange and all
branches of
HASTINGS DEERING
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
William & Crown Streets, Sydney. Tel. FA 0322 (33 lines)
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Tel. 4-1481 (9 lines)
City Chambers, Alinga St., Canberra, A.C.T. Tel. J 4051
MAIL THIS COUPON ••
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.,
G.P.O. Box 4333, SYDNEY.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, full details of
your terms deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS - 1
HD6I3
a profitable game where the
right product is handled and
attracts a lot of firms and
capital. Business rivalry is
extremely keen in the industry,
and selling-costs are rising.
Profit-margins suffer accord-
ingly, although the total volume
of sales is gradually rising from
year to year. This is the posi-
tion in the industry as a whole,
and W. T. Coggins is no
exception.
Last year turnover was main-
tained, but smaller profit-
margins resulted in lower net
earnings. Consolidated trading-
profit for the year ended July
31, 1959, was £32,681 lower at
£136,575. Provision for depre-
ciation absorbed £7146 (down
£501), directors’ fees £lBOO and
tax-provision £49,043 (down
£12,084). Consolidated net
profit was £20,096 lower at
£78,586:
W. T. Coggins Holdings, Ltd., and
Subsidiaries.
Re-
July, Profit. ——Dividends— N serves.
£ £ £
Share-issue expenses, £2092 125,521
1955.. 75,341 10 p.c. = 14,400 186,462
Unexplained addition, £3332 189,794
1956.. 77,659 16 p.c. = 16,000 251,453
Unexplained reduction,
£10,476 .. .. 240,977
1957.. 81,141 10 p.c. = 16,000 306,118
1958.. 98,683 15 „ „ 24,000 380,801
Unexplained reduction, £405 380,396
1959.. 78,586 15 p.c. == 24,000 434,982
This was equivalent to an
earning-rate of 49.1 p.c. on the
average ordinary capital (61.7
p.c. in 1958 and 50.7 p.c. in
1957). Dividend was steady
at 15 p.c., calling for £24,000.
Reserves benefited by £54,586,
but there was an unexplained
reduction of £405.
Paid capital remained un-
changed at £160,000 in ss. f.-p.
ords. There was a £9150
reduction in the mortgage-
secured loan. Sundry debtors
increased by £50,537 to
£170,492, but cash was
£23,058 lower at £86,626. The
co.’s holding of General Motors
Acceptance Corp. unsecured
notes decreased by £20,000 to
£30,000:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958 1959.
Paid capital— ..£160,000 £160,000
Reserves . . . . 380,801 434,982
Mortgage .. 72,000 62,850
Creditors, unearned
income .. 116,615 108,889
Tax provision .. 61,399 49,672
Final dividend . . 16,000 16,000
£806,815 £832,393
Land and build-
ings . . . . 282,071 288,433
Plant, vehicles,
etc. .. -.. 80,442 86,643
Investments . . 50,000 30,000
Stocks . . . . 164,663 170,199
Debtors, prepay-
ments .. .. 119,955 170,492
Cash, etc. .. 109,684 86,626
£806,815 £832,393
Liquidity improved. Theoreti-
cal working - capital was
£282,756, and current ratio
worked out at 2.6 to 1 on the
consolidated accounts. The ss.
ords. were backed by 18s. 6d.
of net tangible assets.
W. T. Coggins, Ltd., paid a
10 p.c. maiden dividend in 1955,
its first full year as a public co.
This was followed by two more
10 p.c. divs., and the rate was
then raised to 15 p.c. in 1958.
Otherwise, the co. has not been
over-generous to its share-
holders.
Profits were energetically
ploughed-back to build-up
reserves to £434,982, more than
two-and-a-half times the paid
capital. There is obvious scope
for a bonus-issue.
Eager hopefulness on the
’Change has driven the ss. ords.
to 20s. 6d. a unit. The imme-
diate yield is 3.7 p.c. on the
basis of the 15 p.c. div-
rate.


THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. P. THORPE, Manager.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
■jp xcept for the sudden and
furious storms which in-
evitably arise from party envy,
the Parliamentary session that
has just opened promises to be
a quiet one, at least so far as
home affairs are concerned.
Events in Africa could, no
doubt, provoke some excite-
ment, but the Government’s
preoccupation with these and
the Prime Minister’s studied
liberal approach to racial issues
may leave little scope for
Opposition anger.
Mr. Butler seems to be pre-
paring himself for anti-wowser
legislation on drinking and
gambling. He has outlined
some tentative proposals which
he is having circulated to “the
trade.” The essence of his
intended reforms of the licens-
ing-hours is commonsense
toleration and the effect (which
undoubtedly will not be ex-
pressed in these words) will be
to bring the United Kingdom
more into line with the Con-
tinent.
Such an admission would
have appalled our fathers and
grandfathers, who seldom
travelled far from their homes
and to whom the word “Con-
tinental” often conveyed an-
other kind of licence. But
Western Europe is now much
closer to us, and its resorts are
found to be just as respectable
as Bournemouth. Moreover,
not only do the British travel
abroad in larger numbers but
almost as many visitors come
to Britain.
The suggested changes will
extend the greater liberties at
present enjoyed in London to
the whole of the country and
recognise that, in a television
age, the arbitrary hour of 10
p.m. is not necessarily the best
time for closing. For the
benefit of the tourist trade,
permission will be given for
drink to be supplied up to 2
a.m. on weekdays for consump-
tion with meals to music and
dancing in recognised hotels
and restaurants.
A clear distinction will also
be made between the two
different types of clubs. Those
bona fide clubs that are run by
and for the benefit of members
will enjoy the right of registra-
tion, but the proprietary type,
most of which at present exist
to get round the licensing laws,
will have to apply for a justice’s
licence.
These changes will probably
have to wait for the next
session, but a Betting and
Gaming Bill is down for the
current one. It is expected that
card games, such as bridge and
solo, will be allowed to be
played in clubs, on licensed
premises and, generally, in
public, as on the Continent.
But the all-party tourists-and-
resorts Committee of M.P.’s
which agrees to card games
takes the view that national
opinion would oppose casinos
in our holiday resorts. There’s
a world of difference, it seems,
between penny solo and those
very Continental games of
chance that depend upon the
spin of a wheel. The English-
man feeling, no doubt, a bit
of a truant, will still have to
go to Deauville or Monte for
his flutter.
Revenue
The Government’s own safe
gamble, premium bonds, have
lost their appeal. First offered
only three years ago, the gap
between sales and withdrawals
is narrowing every month. A
staff-writer in the “Financial
Times” estimates that, if this
gap continues for another year
or so, the bonds will cease to
be effective as a contribution to
deficit-financing.
Prizes are “drawn” electroni-
cally every month out of
theoretical interest at 4 per
cent, and range from a few
at £lOOO to many at £25. The
odds against drawing a prize
are somewhere in the region
of 11,000 to 1 and are lengthen-
ing.
What has happened is that
most people treat the bonds as
a once-for-all experiment. They
don’t disturb their original
holding but they certainly don’t
add to it. This is disappoint-
ing to the Government, which
had hoped that the public
would use the bonds for regular
saving.
It is, perhaps, a little incon-
sistent that fantastic sums of
money are poured into the foot-
ball-pools every week when the
odds against a £200,000 win
are something like 100-million
to one. The explanation is
simple: £lOOO is welcome, but
it is not a fortune, and certainly
not enough to provide the inde-
pendence to tell the boss where
he gets off. With the bonds
there is also a waiting-period
of si£ months before the holder
becomes eligible for a draw.
If they mean to sustain
interest the Government will
have to increase the first prize,
reduce the waiting-period or
devise some other novelty.
The Inland Revenue Report
for 1957-58 has been received
with mixed feelings. It is cer-
tainly a mine of interesting
statistical data, varying from
the number (eight) of new
millionaires to the cost of tax-
collection (1.38 per cent, of
receipts) and it is reassuring to
learn that the average tax-
payer is honest (there were only
80 convictions for tax offences).
But the even-moderately
ambitious man can hardly
derive comfort from other
data. For instance, though
only 735,000 (out of 18 million)
tax - payers earned more
than *‘"£lsoo a year, they
accounted for nearly one-half
of the revenue; and out of
these, 193,000 incomes over
£3OOO provided nearly one-
third. Another disclosure is
that, because of allowances, the
average effective rate of tax
was as low as 2s. 10d. —exactly
one-third of the standard-rate
then operative.
Six Searching Characters
There is much amusement
and artistry in “The
Lily White Boys” (Royal
Court Theatre) notwithstanding
its rather long-faced reception
by the critics. This musical
play illustrates the chief griev-
ance of managements towards
critics: “The audience go to
the theatre to be entertained,
enjoy themselves and applaud
the actors, while the critics sit
there thinking out what they’re
going to write.”
Perhaps the rfote which the
poet, Christopher Logue, wrote
about the function of his songs
and which was published in
“The Times” the morning be-
fore the opening night was a
little too high-sounding. “The
kind of song we wanted,” he
stated, “was to be found in the
English music-hall tradition, the
works of Brecht and, to a lesser
extent, those of W. S. Gilbert.”
In the event, the music is
pleasant but colorless and the
songs neither distinguished nor
particularly theatre - worthy,
despite a declared intention
“to make them contribute to
the general meaning and thesis
of the play.”
This latter is expressed in too
broad terms to deserve such
high-falutin decoration. It is
an engaging theme—simply the
realisation of a no-longer-
juvenile delinquent that the
rackets on the right side of
the law are more rewarding
than those on the wrong side.
The play is really a sequence
of episodes showing the pro-
gression of three dead-end
kids to worldly success: Ted,
the leader, to industrialist,
Razzo, the artful one, to a
political knighthood and
Musclebound to policeman.
Meanwhile, their factory-girl
consorts pursue different
courses: Jeannie to share Ted’s
glory, Eth to film-stardom, and
Liz, confidently but meretri-
ciously, to Mayfair hostess.
Harry Cookson’s book takes-
in rather than takes-off a wide
range of modern instances, but
some of the satire drives home.
The play is wittingly acted, not
only by the six, but also by
the other five who between
them provide a score of sup-
porting characters.
The film sequence, which is
to the play what the ballet
sequence was to “Oklahoma! ”,
is as refreshing as it is unex-
pected.
The Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, Mr. Heathcoat
Amory, told the Commons on
February 2 that there were 52
officials in U.K. Government
departments who drew a higher
salary than the Minister in
charge, and, on a rough esti-
mate, 4500 civil servants who
are paid more than a Parlia-
mentary Secretary or Under-
secretary.
Apart from the Prime
Minister (£lO,OOO sterling a
year), Lord Chancellor (£BOOO
as judge and £4OOO as Speaker
of the House of Lords), the
Attorney-General (£10,000)
and the Solicitor - General
(£7000) all other senior
Ministers get £5OOO a year.
Among the top civil servants,
the Permanent Secretary to the
Treasury gets £7500 and his
second secretary £7OOO. Scien-
tific Adviser for the Defence
Ministry also gets £7OOO.


CARPET-SNAKE
By
JACK LUSBY
Young Roy stops his
pony on the bridge and
stares down at the
snake in wonder. He
must have day-dreamed his way
to the mailbox or he’d have
spotted it then.
It’s a carpet-snake, a python.
With a great bulge in its middle.
Coiled on a forked branch
hanging out over the creek.
And so big it weighs the branch
down, almost touching the
muddy rush of water. In all
his 12 years Roy has never
seen such a snake.
Leaning over the saddle he
watches for several minutes.
His eyes follow the inert,
patterned curves excitedly, and
he tries to judge the length of
the snake. The pony whisks
his tail at flies and shakes his
long mane restlessly. The snake
makes not the slightest move-
ment.
With reluctance the boy rides
on, along the rutted track that
goes between the standing
maize and the feed-cane and
rises to the farmhouse. Old
Matt rides round a corner of
the house with the inevitable
stockwhip and brindle Too-dog
and a hoe on his shoulder. Roy
waves a couple of letters
absentmindedly.
“Take ’em in to your aunt,
young Roy. Then grab a hoe
and come along. Them noo-
goora burrs are getting a hold
along the creek.”
Roy’s great-uncle, old Matt
rarely moves except on horse-
back. His hardworking sons,
Frank and Jerry, consider him
a lazy, garrulous old tyrant. In
build he is tall, straight and
spare. When he removes his
battered, curly-brimmed Stetson
there is a shock of snow-white
hair standing pretty well
straight up. When dismounted
he’s a leaner. He can lean for
hours on a shovel-handle, a
fence-rail, a veranda-post or
the side of a tractor. Provided
there’s a listener. At Roy’s age
Matt and his brothers had only
the black kids for playmates
and he was then bilingual. He
can still mouth the old, soft
vowels and difficult consonants
with ease.
“There’s a giant carpet-snake
in a tree over the creek,’’ says
Roy as they ride away from
the house. “Can we get him
and skin him? It’d be a beaut
skin! The best you ever saw.”
He knows old Matt is as much
at home with a snake as with
a kangaroo-dog pup. He’s
seen him crack a black-snake
like a whip. And hold another
up by the tip of the tail, twirl-
ing him gently, keeping him
helpless.
“We’ll have a look at him.”
'T'hey rein-in on the creek
A bridge and look down at
the snake. Roy’s heart hammers
with excitement.
“Isn’t he a beauty, Uncle!”
“Not too bad. Not too bad
at all. We’ll get him for you.”
“Now?”
“Not now. Creek’s too
high. But he won’t move till
that lump goes down. Must
have swallered a young
wallaby. He won’t budge till
he digests it. We’ll have a
look at him tomorrow.”
“How’ll we get him?”
“Chuck a rope across that
branch and shake him off
Maybe shoot him first. Then
fish him out of the water. Do it
while he’s still a bit sluggish.
But she’s runnin’ too fast now.
Wash him to hell away. He’ll
be there a long time, son.
Don’t worry about him.
C’mon.”
On the shaded creek-bank
near the brown rush and gurgle
of water Roy hoes under the
burrs and worries about his
snake. Old Matt pauses fre-
quently and leans on his long
hoe-handle.
“Easy digging after all that
rain. Leave these noogooras
alone and they’ll cover the
place. Never seen weeds like
’em. But it's easy digging
now. Hop into ’em while your
luck holds. You wait till you
strike some hard digging. Like
Kalgoorlie was.”
Matt squats against an old
gum and gets his pipe going.
Puts his hat down and runs
gnarled fingers through his
stand of white hair.
“Kalgoorlie . . . that was
hard digging! Hard life.
Everything hard- Even had a
hard fight once. And I used
to win pretty easy those days.”
“What was the hard fight,
Uncle?” Roy straightens and
rests.
“Fought a man for two hours.
All over a little Japanese girl.
Then she nursed me for three
days in me tent till I got better.
O’ course, son, that was before
1 met your aunt. No need to go
spruiking round the house
about it.”
Matt tamps down the
tobacco and puffs smoke for a
minute. Then chuckles at
another memory.
“Had some special hard
digging right here in Monalbo
one day. Must be fifty year ago.
I was running the pub then.
Got the mob out of the bar and
we all had a go. The ground
was like rock.”
“What were you digging
for?”
“To bury the bloody stinkin’
cedar-cutter! He’d done him-
self in way up the mountain.
Suicide. Been dead about a
fortnight when they found him,
and they brought him down in
a box. Had to give all hands a
double rum before they’d come
near him. I used to play the
fiddle in them days and some-
times wore a claw-hammer coat
so they reckoned I was educated
and asked me to say something
over the grave.”
“What did you say, Uncle?”
“I took off me cabbagetree
hat and looked up at the sky
and roared out: ‘Ruler of the
universe! This poor coot


must’ve thought he’d get a
better spin with You than down
here with his mates. Give him
fair crack o’ the whip.
Amen! ’ ”
“Is that why old Mr.
Delaney and Mr. Rankin call
you The Bishop?”
“Yeah, they remember. They
all called me The Bishop after
we buried the cedar-cutter.
Well, I think we’ll turn it in—
it’s gettin’ hot.”
"D iding back over the creek
Roy pulls up and studies
the snake. It has become his
personal property.
“He hasn’t moved.”
“ Can’t move. Gotta sleep
off a wallaby.”
“Couldn’t Splinter hook onto
him,” says Roy, looking at
the brindle dog behind Matt’s
horse.
“Splinter’s a roo- dog! ”
Matt’s bushy eyebrows shoot
up and he glares at the boy.
“He don't climb trees and he
don’t go much on swimming.
And your snake’s as safe as if
he was locked up. C’mon.”
They ride on. Over on
their left Frank, the younger
son, is hoeing between the
bright green rows of young
cane. Near the house Jerry
slides past standing on a horse-
drawn sled carrying a drum of
skimmed milk and some
pumpkins to the pigs. Sliding
easily over lush grass in the
mid-morning heat, over the
shadowed mauve carpet of
fallen flowers beneath a big
jacaranda.
“Been doing a bit?” he calls
to them, the wide grin verging
on sarcasm.
Unsaddling, Roy can hear
Aunt Jess and the girl, Maisie,
chattering in the kitchen.
“Come and drink your tea,”
says Matt. “Then you can
take a billy down to Frank.”
Frank is in his late twenties.
He has red hair and freckled
skin drawn tight over high
cheekbones. He hunkers down
in the shade of a bamboo clump
beside the canefield, pours tea
into a pannikin and rolls a
smoke while it cools. Roy tells
him about the snake.
“Huh! The old feller and
his tomorrows! Your holi-
days’ll be over and you’ll be
back at school by the time he
gets that snake.”
“But he will get it for me?”
“I dare say. If he can do it
without geting off his horse.
Gentleman farmer! Wish to
God he’d stop talking now and
then and listen to me and
Jerry.”
“What d’you want to say to
him?”
“Sell the place! Sell the
bloody place! Let me and
Jerry get away into civilised
jobs where you can make a few
quid. This place doesn’t pay a
razoo.”
Frank draws deeply on his
cigarette, gulps some tea and
lets his bottled-up feelings go
again.
“Up at half-past-four and
catch the horses. Bring the
cows down outa the cliffs and
gullies he calls a farm. Milk
the bastards. Separate the
cream. Clean the shed and
dairy. Feed pigs. Breakfast.
Clean out the cane and man-
handle corn. Plough, harrow,
cut burrs. Cuppa tea. Another
coupla hours yakka. Feed and
smoke and back to the pad-
dock. Then it’s on again.
Horses, cows, milking, clean-
ing-up, separating, seven o’-
clock and teatime. Go to sleep
like a dog. Next day the same
unless it’s dipping-day on top
of everything. All day every
day, seven days a week.”
Frank grinds the cigarette-
butt under his heel and refills
the pannikin. He looks grim
and sour.
“To see Flo I’ve got to ride
eight miles up the creek at night
after milking, and eight miles
back. And up in the dark again
next morning. And mister
bloody Skinny Jenkins pitch-
ing for Flo with spare time to
burn! They must work bank-
hours on the big station.”
“Does Flo go much on
Skinny Jenkins?”
“Dunno . . . he’s pretty flash
. . . aw, I think I’m set with
Flo . . . but not if this goes
on for ever. I want to get
away and get married. And
not to seventy mangy cows!
You’re lucky, Roy. Nothing
to worry about but a carpet-
snake.”
“Why won’t Uncle sell out?”
“He’s like an old cow that
sticks to the one bail. No more
reason than that.” Frank tugs
his hat-brim down and strides
away towards the waiting cane.
At the house Matt is in an
old veranda-chair peering
at a newspaper, glasses well
down on his nose. Out in the
dirt a black hen and chickens
are picking and scratching.
There’s a distant, shrill squeal-
ing of young pigs.
“What’s up with the pigs,
Uncle?”
“Uh? Oh, Jerry’s down there
doing somethin’ or other.”
“A pity you weren’t doing
something or other.” Aunt Jess
has come out on the veranda.
Grey hair drawn back tightly
into a bun. Hazel eyes in a
tracery of fine wrinkles. Short,
plump and at the moment
angry. “Have you planted my
beans by any chance?”
“Take it easy, woman. I’ll
put ’em in tomorrow. Just
snatching a look at the paper.
Joe Costello’s dead in Mon-
albo”—
“Yes, and I’ll be dead before
those beans are in the ground.
Tomorrow, tomorrow! I’ve
been at you for a week!”
“Another day won’t hurt
’em.”
Aunt Jess whirls and returns
to the kitchen.
An hour or so later Aunt
Jess reappears and gives voice
to a couple of cooees surpris-
ingly loud and clear for an
old woman. Roy sluices face
and hands in the outside dish
and follows Matt in to the big
kitchen table for lunch.
Soon Frank and Jerry wash,
clump onto the veranda and
come in. The girl Maisie
hands round plates of beef
and vegetables and Aunt Jess
pours tea before they, too, sit
down.
“Frank says you’ve found
the daddy of all snakes,” Jerry
remarks towards the end of
the meal. Jerry is like Frank,
but older and heavier. Calmer,
too. His wide mouth usually
has the beginnings of a grin.
“It’s a beauty.” Roy’s eyes
brighten. “I want the skin.”
“They have good skins, the
big ones,” says Jerry. “You
can make all sorts of things out
of them. I might make you
a belt and a pair of riding-
boots. How about that?”
“A bit showy, says Matt.
“You’d have him looking like
that flash smart-alec Jenkins.
Fancy hatband, fancy spurs
and a shirt like a bushfire.”
Sour grunt from Frank.
“Aw g’wan,” says Jerry.
“Just the thing for a kid.”
“Yes, please!” says Roy.
“You won’t have him look-
ing like anything unless you
catch his snake,” comes from
Aunt Jess.
“I’ll get him when the
creek goes down. Safe as a
bank.”
After the meal Frank and
Jerry stretch out on their
veranda-bunks and smoke. Old
Matt goes to sleep in his chair.
The only sound in the drowsy
heat of midday is the rattle
of washing-up from the
kitchen. Roy picks up his hat
and wanders out of the house.
Stands undecided, kicking the
dirt with the toe of his boot.
Then walks down the track
leading to the creek as though
drawn by a magnet.
The snake is still there. Roy
sits on the big beam at the
edge of the bridge and feasts
his eyes on the great coils and
the flat wedge of its head. After
a time he stands and walks
quietly away. He’s afraid of
disturbing the snake.
He walks back up the track,
between the cane and the
maize, towards the house.
There’s a sound of hammer-
ing from the pig-sty. Jerry is
putting a fresh sheet of
corrugated iron on the roof.
In the big barn, made of
rough-hewn timber, Frank is
working on the engine of the
tractor, and Roy watches for
a while. Frank loves engines,
and he whistles softly as he
works. Beside the tractor
stands the battered Chev. that
Jerry nurses along the red
clay road to Monalbo when
occasion demands. Jerry was
a mail-car driver before he
came back to the farm. When
he talks to Roy about those
days his eyes light up and his
mouth stretches into that wide
grin. “Better than milking
cows, boy,” he tells Roy when
he talks about it.
It’s mid-afternoon when
Roy reaches the house. Matt,
awake from his siesta, smokes
his pipe on the veranda. No
sound in the house. Aunt
Jess and Maisie are having their
brief spell.
“Catch the horses, Roy,”
says Matt, “and we’ll bring the
cows down.”
At the mouths of the scrub-
filled gullies rising into the
range high above the farmhouse
Matt wakes echoes with his
stockwhip.
“Git away behind ’em, Blue!
Git hold of ’em, boy! ”
Cows come crashing out of
the scrub and line-out, heading
down.
“Git away behind ’em, Blue! ”
There’s no cattledog. Blue has
been dead a year or more. But
the cows remember him and his
razor-toothed way with lag-
gards. At the sound of his
name they come down.
At the yard Matt dismounts
and finds a long-handled shovel
to lean on. He seems to be
chewing his cud right back
at the ruminative front rank of
cows philosophically waiting
their turn.
Roy’s first cow plays up. A
rare display of indignation.
Bucket and stool go flying.
Jerry lends a hand to leg-rope
and bail her.
“Young Judy’s touchy with
strangers. And you ran her
into the wrong bail. She likes
the one at the other end. Got
a mind of her own and lets
you know it.”
“A cow? Has a cow got a
mind?”
“Every last one of ’em. And
(Continued on page 44)


seemed just a mite too expen-
sive.
Last year an expert, spon-
sored by the sugarcane industry
and the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment, was sent to the
U.S. to study the methods used
in Louisiana, where all cutting
is done by machine and the
cane is burnt on the ground
after it has been cut.
It is considered inevitable by
the industry that the machine
will eventually take-over in
Australia also. Some say that
within 10 years there will be
no canecutters in Queensland ;
others say the change will come
about in as little as three years.
One of the arguments used
in favor of mechanical cutting
is that the canecutter doesn’t
seem to identify himself with
the district he works in. He
spends little in it, except on
food and drink (beer particu-
larly), and generally aims to
take about £BOO south with him
at the end of the season.
To him, canecutting is a
means of getting the capital to
establish himself elsewhere.
There is, according to surveys
made, an almost 100 per cent,
turnover of labor every five
years. Those who survive for
17 summers must surely be
exceptional!
Of course, it is not envisaged
that labor would be no longer
required on the cane-farm.
Technicians would be needed to
work and service the machines,
and these men would be per-
manent employees working
with the farmer in the off-
season at other jobs.
The quarters which now
accommodate 10 cutters would
be remodelled to make a home
for the technician and his-
family, with space also for the
machine.
It is thought that these
changes would make for a more
stable economy in the sugar-
towns, which now suffer a
decline in the off-season.
Mechanisation, needless to
say, is quite highly developed
in other functions of sugar-
farming—ploughing, planting,
fertilising and loading the cut
cane.
HThe cane industry this year is
-*■ suffering from overproduc-
tion, as it did last year—the
result, ironically enough, of
efficient work by the sugar
experimental stations and the
C.S.R., which have developed
better sugarcane varieties and
discovered methods of treating
diseases of cane.
Another factor is that in the
past good seasons in the north
always seemed to balance poor
ones in the south, and vice
versa, so that surplus cane
grown was always marketable ;
but for the past two years there
have been bountiful seasons
everywhere. This should be
cause for rejoicing, but actually
it gives rise to anxiety.
The amount of sugar that
Australia can export is fixed
by an international agreement,
and the Central Sugar Cane
Prices Board controls within
the industry the price to be
paid to the mills for cane. It
also controls the division
between millers and growers
for raw sugar, the amount of
land that will be used for cane-
growing and the production-
peak for each farm.
You cannot just start a
“This must be some kind of joke—I only just
invented it.”
sugarcane-farm. If you want
to go into the industry you
must buy one already estab-
lished. You will be set a
“peak” for production and will
be assured of a market for
that.
Of the lOd. per lb. for which
sugar sells in all capital-cities,
the grower and the miller
receive about 6d. The rest
goes in transport, charges for
refining, storage, profits for the
wholesaler and the retailer and
subsidy to fruit-canning
industry. For the sugarcane
industry, far from receiving a
subsidy from any Government,
itself pays a subsidy to help
the jam industry. So you could
say that part of the lOd. is
money for jam.
Naturally most of the
farmers are disappointed at not
being able to sell their surplus
cane. Some are trying to find
alternative uses for it, such as
pig-fodder. It is being found,
however, that pigs just won’t
go into the cane and eat it up.
They have to have it cut-up for
them!
The price of sugar, it must
be remembered, does not
fluctuate with gluts; and it
is the farmer who has made
a big capital-outlay on machin-
ery or has gone in for heavy
fertilisation who is most wor-
ried. (Perhaps this is one of
the reasons why he is not over-
anxious to spend money on
canecutting machines while
there are still canecutters will-
ing and available to do the
work.)
"PARTHER north in the sugar-
cane country one is struck
by the prevalence of Italian
names on the shops and places
of business, the variety of
Italian foodstuffs to be
bought, and the number of
times one hears the Italian
language in conversation. Ayr,
Ingham, Tully and Innisfail
seem to be bilingual towns.
At Innisfail last year there
was unveiled a beautiful statue
in white Carrera marble of a
canecutter —a memorial to the
pioneers of the cane industry.
It was donated by the Italian
community and is indicative of
the important part Italians play
in the life of the district.
This Italian influence dates
back to the early 1890’s, up
to which time all the work in
the canefields had been done
by Melanesians. But at that
time the agitation for a White
Australia was building up and
canegrowers began to fear that
the farms would be left with-
out labor.
Two Italians working in
Townsville at the time suggested
that migrants from Italy, used
to the hot Mediterranean
summers, might be able to
tackle the work, and in 1891 a
vessel bearing 335 Italians,
many with their wives and
families, landed in Townsville
and settled in the Burdekin and
Herbert districts.
It is rather ironic that these
migrants had been chosen from
the northern parts of Italy—
Piedmont and Lombardy —
where the climate is by no
means similar to that of North
Queensland. It was as if
recruits from Tasmania had
been chosen, in the belief that,
being Australians, they would
be able to stand the heat!
But these Italians showed
themselves sturdy, methodical
workers, ably withstanding the
tropical climate, and they
established themselves in their
new country and demonstrated
that it was quite possible for
cane-growing to be wholly
worked by white labor. As
they intermarried with Austra-
lians and encouraged their
relatives to come to this coun-
try they set the pattern for
northern Italian migration to
this part of the world.
Although the sugarcane
industry was well established
before the Italians began to
take part in it—the industry
goes back to the 1860’s —they
pioneered one branch of it and
have contributed much to its
success.
The motto on the memorial
statue at Innisfail reads “Übi
bene, ibi patria”\ it has been
translated: “Where you own
your land, there is your father-
land.” But as there does not
seem to be any reference to
owning land in the Latin, a
simpler translation would be:
“Where it is well with you,
there is your fatherland.’’
IF you have a chance to go
through one of the mills
that are to be found In all
sugar-towns, you will see the
cane arriving in its little train
and being tossed into a huge
machine where it is thrashed
about with blunt knives (a
hidden process).
When it is seen again the
juice has been separated, and
all that remains of the once
sturdy cane is fibrous pith
called, for some unaccount-
able reason, bagasse. This is
used for fuel in the mills and
may also be turned into cane-
ite. Sometimes the mills
generate more electricity than
they need and are able to
supplement the town supply.
Nothing is wasted in the
mills. Even the excess soil
squeezed through the rollers is
sold to farmers for topdress-


/i
:'■: ' : - .
m**.
■we**?:
I
:
nL
THE NEW HOLDEN
Thrill to all its exciting new styling . . . enjoy all its impressive
new mechanical features . . . you’ll agree it’s more than ever Australian value leader*.
New Holden Styling. New lower Holden silhouette . . . 20%
greater forward vision . . . Radiator grille . . . Instrument
panel . . . Interior trim treatments.
New Performance and Comfort. New 75 gross brake horse-
power. Lighter brake and clutch pedal pressures. New
ventilation. New braking area (16 square inches greater).
Holden saves you money, too. Call today see the glittering
new styling features of Holden. Then drive Holden. You’ll
quickly agree that the new Holden* is the car for you.
*Regd.
AUSTRALIA'S OWN CAR —now more than ever Australia’s finest value
♦Regd.
Ml 13
HOLDEN SEDAN from £BB5 plus tax
HOLDEN STATION SEDAN from
£960 plus tax
GMAC Hire Purchase Available
Holden “Air Chief ” is the radio approved by GMH
SEE YOUR HOLDEN DEALER TODAY GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
ing; and, of course, the
molasses, the thick syrup which
remains after all the sugar has
been extracted, is valuable as
a food. From it come also
methylated-spirit, industrial-
spirits and rum.
Every district in the green-
gold country has its own
interest. Mackay, with seven
mills, is the biggest centre for
the sugar industry and it was
here, in 1957, that the first
bulk-sugar terminal was estab-
lished.
These terminals, now estab-
lished also at Bundaberg,
Townsville and Point Lucinda
(near Ingham), considerably
cut the cost of handling raw
sugar as they dispense with the
packing into jute bags. The
sugar is transported in bulk to
the terminals—you can see the
glittering aluminium hoppers
borne on trucks along the main
roads—and then shipped to
other Australian ports and
overseas.
You may also see at these
terminals giant, aluminium-
painted tanks each containing
50,000 gallons of molasses,
Awesome thought!
A/Tany think that the most
IYI richly beautiful parts of
the green-gold country are in
the district around Cairns,
taking-in Innisfail, Babinda
and Gordonvale. About 1200 1
miles north of Brisbane, this
district combines the subtle
golden tones of the cane with
the blues, greens and purples
of the jungle-clad ranges that
close in upon them,
Farther south the districts
round Ayr and Home Hill are
of interest. Though they are
in a dry belt with an annual
average rainfall of from 30in.
to 40in., their farms are irri-
gated by more than 500-million
gallons of water daily during
nine months of every year,
This wealth of water is the
gift of the Burdekin Delta,
which covers more than 250
square-miles, and from this
underground water-supply prac-
tically all sugarcane-farms in
the area are irrigated. The
pumping-plant and equipment
on these farms enable them to
withstand considerably long
dry periods.
One of the show-places of
this district is the new bridge
over the Burdekin River, which
took £3 million and 10 years
to build. It is a very handsome
biidge—one of the longest in
Australia and its structure is*
unique because of the depth
of sand on both sides of the
river and the absence of rock,
Here I quote from the cen-
tenary brochure of the Ayr
Shire Council:
The huge concrete caissons sup-
bridge! £ £
river to a depth of nearly 100 feet,
and each caisson contains 4000 tons
of reinforced concrete. The
bottoms of these caissons were
plugged with a 14-feet concrete seal,
they were then filled with water
and a seven-feet thickness of con-
crete capped the tops. The erection
of these caissons between flood-
periods was an undertaking of great
difficulty.
The brochure goes on to
say that the old bridge, having
battled on gamely for many
years and surviving flood after
flood, gave-up the ghost the
first wet season (1958) after the
new bridge was finished.
Th°r this writer, a visitor the
A greatest charm of the
green-gold country lies in the
district north of Cairns. Here
] s a restful, quiet-paced land
beautiful in the perfect har-
mony of coJor that lhe ]and _
scape, sea, sky and mountain
combine to present Here the
beaches look out over shining
water s to islands of the Barrier
Reef which sometimes seem to
float on a white mist like the
Isl “ ds of The mist
ls a mirage and is noticed in
the morning of a bright day.
-t, . ■ , c
1S ls a P ers onal preference,
of course. Many who travel
to the sugar country may be
disappointed by the lack ot
surt or bright modern build-
ings ; but they will not be
disappointed by the countryside
and the unspoiled peacefulness
of the whole district.


“LOOK AROUND YOU....”
[By Kollo Gillespie]
The epitaph of Sir Christopher Wren,
architect and builder, as he lies in his
tomb in the centre of his finest edifice,
is “If you seek my monument, look
around you.”
It’s a strange commentary on human
nature that England—least military but
most warlike of modern democracies—
should have bequeathed to the troubled
new nations of Asia an efficient army-
command as the only means available
of restoring the law and order once kept
in the world by her minute land-forces.
One after another, argumentative
doctors of law and philosophy, who
caught the germ of verbal diarrhoea
from impractical and eccentric half-bakes
at the new (and, regrettably, sometimes
the old) English universities, are obliged
to call upon their generals for help.
These professional soldiers, trained at
Sandhurst and the Staff College (or, at
least, sort of “failed gentlemen-cadets”),
all base their actions on the rule of
commonsense and seemliness once taught
them by British regimental officers.
That’s where historians smile. England
once tried military dictatorship, too, but
had a stomachful of Cromwell’s major-
generals and decided that in future pro-
fessional soldiers on the Continental
model were no longer wanted in any
force raised for the defence of the realm.
So the English Parliament, which was
composed in those days of lords and
commons, all with a defined stake in
the land and each prepared to defend it
by deed as well as by words if war
came, devised the purchase-system. No
man could hold a commission in the
Army unless he was prepared first to
put-down a substantial sum for the right
of joining and then to pay for each
subsequent step in rank.
At first sight the system seems childish
and unjust, but closer examination shows
that it was a safeguard of the English
Constitution. Men of no fortune were
not wanted as military officers, and there
was no chance of officers depending on
their pay and looking to the service to
piake them a fortune. Officers of the
Army were men with everything to lose
and nothing to gain from a military
revolution, and the Army, officered by
men of this class, won its most famous
victories and established the British
Empire.
Its purely aristocratic rule —for in
those days money came from land, not
from trade —founded a form of easy
discipline which the daughter-nations
inherited.
India —using the old name to describe
the whole sub-continent —would never
have existed as a nation but for the
chivalrous service of such men as the
Lawrences, Hodson, Skinner, John
Nicholson and a host of unknown
soldiers in the Royal or the Company’s
armies. There you will see a monument
that still stands, however hard the intel-
lectuals are trying to pull it down.
With the Royal Navy and this
peculiarly constituted, aristocratic Army,
England gave the world 100 years of
peace from which we still benefit today.
In this time, too, lawyers and profes-
sional philosophers hardly significant
in the days when the Empire was grow-
ing and bringing peace and prosperity
to England and the world —spawned
like weeds and, with women joining their
caterwauling, persuaded the world they
had a better answer than the ancient one
devised by soldiers who knew what
makes men tick.
Now, the only practicable answer in
Asia is to go back to commonsense.
Recognise that these military dictators
are the men who may one day set Asia
straight—and if they can’t do it, no one
can —and try to guide them into the way
of doing it effectively and humanely.
If the British Commonwealth had sent
a military mission to Indonesia 10 years
ago, when the writing was there for any-
one to read, Australia wouldn't now be
in the position of having to explain to
the Dutch why a couple of Indonesian
officers have been invited to attend a
course in jungle* warfare at Canungra.
The whole set of circumstances would
probably never have arisen.
And the same could have been true
of other Asian countries. But, no!
Lawyers and philosophers knew best!
Look around you to see what they’ve
left!
Astronomic Training
[From “Stromlo”]
Australia is in the forefront of radio-
astronomy. The work of Australian
astronomers in the calculation of the
ages of star-clusters in the sky of the
southern hemisphere is being published
in the U.S., we are collaborating in
projects designed to send up new artificial
satellites, and we are being told from
many quarters that the world is on the
threshold of the “space age.”
This is all highly impressive—but what
on earth is any Australian Government
doing to encourage among our children
a genuine interest in astronomy and its
related problems, and to provide a
reasonable course leading through
secondary school and university to
degrees in astronomy?
The Australian National University, a
graduate university in its present stage,
whatever it may become with the in-
corporation of the Canberra University
College, is doing something (without
publicity so far as the general public
is concerned), but the real need is for
action at a lower educational level to
incite the interest and active co-opera-
tion of hundreds of bright students now
at school and in their teens to ensure
that there will be adequate human
material in this country for the major
and fantastic tasks now looming on the
astronomic horizon.
There are literally new worlds to be
discovered in this new “Elizabethan age,”
and the stimulus of the unknown should
be as great among the youth of today as
the unknown oceans and continents of
500 years ago were to the exploring youth
of that former era. A few of the
children now at school may become the
first space-travellers in reality, and others
will share in the exciting aspects of
exploration by the fantastic new devices
now building or being planned. The
point is that a course in astronomy and
outer space must be devised to harness
interest and ability, well ahead of present
occasional lessons and trips to observa-
tories for school classes. Who will make
the first move?
“Henry! Where DID you get this claret cup? "


Start the day right!
to'# 0
F>°.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Melbourne's Racing
Boom
Although the books con-
tinued to call the odds on the
next event, the ring at the
Valley was as good as deserted
last Saturday while three great
horses, Tulloch, Lord and No-
holme, staged an exhibition
gallop. The trio “raced” over
six furlongs, and for Tulloch
it was the most exacting test
he has so far faced in his
comeback attempt.
Everybody wanted him to
do well—Tulloch is a once-in-
a-generation horse—and the
great champion went wonder-
fully well! He actually passed
the post first, but the merit of
the gallop had been established
further back. The trio ran
the second furlong of the six
in 11| (according to a reliable
docker), and at that stage, with
all three racing at full gallop,
Tulloch was doing as well as
his formidable rivals. The
full time was 1.13, pretty good
at the Valley, and very good
considering the horses were
restrained in the run home.
The chances are that Tulloch
will come back! Purtell, who
rode him, was conservative.
He said he would like to see
how the champion handled a
race with the strain on all the
way. We will have to wait
until (probably) the St. George
Stakes (nine furlongs) at Caul-
field on Saturday week.
What a never-to-be-forgotten
carnival Cup Week will be in
Melbourne next November!
Nothing will detract from the
£25,000 Centenary Cup, but the
minor events will have their
own importance. Latest news
is that the trustees of the
estate of the late George
Adams (who was running Cup
Sweeps in the ’eighties) will
subsidise a new race, to be
called the George Adams
(Tattersall) Handicap. This
race over a mile will be worth
£10,000; in consequence the
old-established Cantala Stakes
will be shortened and renamed
the Cantala Six. Subsidised
events are very rare in Aus-
tralia, although common in
England. Back in 1871 the
Maribyrnong Plate, which has
become one of Australia’s most
famous two-year-old events,
began as a race subsidised by
Victorian breeder George
Petty.
Racing in Melbourne is
enjoying a boom almost unique
in its history. The crowd at
Moonee Valley on Saturday
was 34,000, and that is now
a normal Saturday attendance.
Crowds of a couple of years
ago are now up 50 per cent.
The reason is the unrelenting
Special Squad which has
hounded Melbourne’s s.-p.
bookmakers virtually into
oblivion. It’s still possible to
get a bet s.-p., but it’s no
longer easy.
Soon Premier Bolte will re-
introduce his Off-course Tote
“Think maybe you're pulling them in a hit hard?"
legislation, with a proviso for
cash betting. It would seem
an excellent idea to restrict the
operations of such a tote to
beyond the metropolitan limits.
Country people are entitled to
a legal bet, but city people who
like to wager should patronise
the racecourse. In every area
where facilities for off-course
betting are readily available
the sport has suffered. That
should be the main guiding
principle of our legislators—
not what will produce the most
money in taxes, but what is
best for racing.
Mention was made here last
week of Brian Courtney’s rise
to prominence amongst Vic-
torian trainers. Courtney now
heads the trainer’s list, follow-
ing a treble at the Valley. It
was Brian’s best day ever, and
as he is a credit to the racing-
game his success is well de-
served. Geoff Lane rode the
treble for him, and Lane, too,
has hit the front, sharing with
Jack Purtell the lead among
the jockeys.
The good two - year - old
Liqueur was the first of Court-
ney’s treble, making it three
straight for the colt. Satur-
day’s win was in the first heat
of the Preston Handicap, and
he won it on the bit. Liqueur’s
next test is the Merson Cooper
Stakes at Caulfield, and that
will prove if he’s top-class. The
Penciller, a brilliant youngster
in the late spring, ran badly,
and does not seem to have
“come-up.”
• • • •
Dhaulagiri, rated here last
week as the best three-year-old
in Victoria, was the “middle
pin” of Courtney’s treble. Last
spring this page thought that
Dhaulagiri would win the
V.R.C. Derby, but when Mar-
tello Towers broke-down in the
classic he knocked the High
Peak colt right out of it.
Racing second-up after the
spell which followed that mis-
hap, Dhaulagiri was un-
troubled to beat the youngsters
opposed to him in the mile
Moonee Ponds Handicap. Next
Saturday Dhaulagiri tackles
open company in the £5150
Alister Clark Stakes over the
Valley ten-furlongs course. He
has only 7.9, and this writer
thinks he’ll be well worth a
wager. Dhaulagiri is by the
Hyperion horse, High Peak,
from Solar Circle by Solar
Bear.
• • • •
Courtney rounded-off his
memorable day when My Peak
won the Glenroy Handicap,
making the record of this
punters’ delight four wins,
a second and four thirds from
his last nine starts. Like
Dhaulagiri, he’s a High Peak
colt. His dam is Aversion by
Hellesnnnf
by Drake (imp.) from Sabrina
by the imported Lanius. He is
prominent in Newmarket dis-
cussions, and will give his
backers a sight for their money.
There is no better test of a
jockey than a distance race, and
experienced Frank Treen gave
his rivals a lesson in the 13-
furlongs Travancore Handicap.
Like so many distance events
for moderate horses, the
Travancore began at a dawd-
ling pace, and Treen found it
easy to set-up a long lead with
his mount, Uloura. In the
middle stages Treen gave
Illoura a let-up, and then,
when his rivals got close, shot
away again to win easily. It
was the best run Illoura has
managed in recent starts and
pointed to the aged gelding
having an outside chance in the
Australian Cup.
• • • •
As a two-year-old Hyleena
was almost invincible among
Melbourne’s fillies. Although
burdened with 9.6, she once
started at 6 to 1 on at Caul-
field, and won easily. She
hadn’t, however, managed to
win a race as a three-year-old
until Saturday, when she out-
sped and outstayed her rivals
to win the Yuroke Handicap
easily. There were no fewer
than five events over the six
furlongs less 20yds. course at
the Valley, but Hyleena’s
1.12 1/10 was the best of the
quintet—better even than My
Peak’s effort, athough that good
colt carried 21b. less. The
inference is that Hyleena is
back to her best. If so, she
could be an Oakleigh Plate
chance.
• • • •
Now a six-year-old mare,
Scenic Star has been a good


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
and consistent performer
throughout her career, start-
ing 43 times for 15 wins, 12
minor placings and earnings of
£11,075, and she ran one of
her best races in the Gisborne
Handicap, beating a good field
over a mile in 1.37 f, a bare
l/10sec. outside the course
record. Her owner, C. H.
Buchanan, has booked her to
Todman next season, and on
the face of it that union should
produce a real speedster. Un-
fortunately, many mares who
have had long and distinguished
racing careers have not thrown
good performers. Two of the
best to race in Victoria in the
19405, Tranquil Star and Chic-
quita, have not yet produced
a champion. Scenic Star may
be different. She is by Moon-
dust (a son of Stardust) from
Belle Star by Powerscourt, the
sire of Comic Court.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Before Graduation Stakes
events were added to the
Sydney racing calendar winners
of' the A.J.C.’s Gimcrack
Stakes and Breeders’ Plate had
no chance of competing later
in Novice company, but this
season both Wenona Girl (Gim-
crack) and Sky High (Breeders)
have been thus eligible, and,
of course, as good as lay-down
certainties. Sky High had his
turn at Rosehill last Saturday,
duly landing the dough— at 10
to 1 on! Nobody can blame
connections for taking what is
there on a tray for the taking,
but it’s time the responsible
authorities had a bit of a think
about it. The present set-up is
plain farce.
Two-year-old dark-grey filly
Primrose Lane has now had
two starts at cricket-score odds,
but next time there’ll be no
100 to 1 about the promising
two-year-old, who is raced by
her breeders, W. H. and P. L.
Tyler, in partnership with
Rosehill trainer M. F. Ander-
son. Primrose Lane wasn’t far
away from Sky High at any
stage of the Rosehill Two-year-
old Graduation Stakes, and she
ran on well for third money.
At that, she ran greenly, and
certainly will be improved by
the run. A daughter of the
grey sire Byland, she’s from
Tazi by Nizami (Fr.) from Air
Lassie by Romeo (imp.). Tazi
is a half-sister to Honeywood,
dam of Melbourne Cup winner
Foxzami.
Portnda’s Rosehill win in
the Second Parramatta Stakes
at the Hill was an all-round
family affair. Mr. and Mrs.
L. V. Eaves bred and race the
three-year-old, who’s trained at
the course by their son, former
jockey Jack Eaves. Jack rode
many winners on Sydney and
other tracks, among them
Murray Stream in his 1947
Metrop., and his father, too,
was a former well-known Rose-
hill trainer. Portnda is a three-
year-old gelding by Port Vista
(imp.) from Tipanda.
Rimveil, in his time a top-
notch miler, with, among other
races, an Epsom and the
“ How's THAT for a flat-top , sir — dead-level !"
Chelmsford Stakes in his list,
has since done particularly well
at the stud in Queensland, with
something over 80 individual
winners to his credit, including
Doomben Ten Thousand win-
ner Rimboy. Another of his
get, Veil Charm, won Satur-
day’s Rosehill Auburn Stakes ;
she had won in similar com-
pany at the same track and
over a similar distance at her
prior start (January 23). Now
a six-year-old, she did her early
racing in Queensland and has
also had a couple of wins
at Newcastle. The Auburn
Stakes was restricted to appren-
tices claiming 71b., and the
young horsemen rode very
promisingly, especially J.
Coffey on the winner. He
let her settle down early in
the race, and brought her home
with a well-timed run.
• • • •
Rosebery trainer Gordon
Brown continues to make a
good fist of training horses for
a bit of distance. His best in
the past was Murray Stream,
who twice won the Metropoli-
tan (in 1945 and again in
1947), and who also won a
Doomben Ten Thousand.
Brown trained Rimfire before
that stayer was transferred to
a Melbourne stable not long
prior to his Melbourne Cup
win. Also in Brown’s list is
a Doncaster (with Fire Dust)
and an Epsom (with Turke-
stan), and he now has a good
performer in Travel On, who
continued his run of consistent
form with a stylish win in the
10-furlongs Rosehill Handicap.
Brown iias had the three-year-
old Globetrotter gelding only
a matter of months, winning
with him at his last three starts.
In his latest very impressive
display Travel On came from
the rear of the field to win
with something in hand, rid-
den a patient and well-judged
race by apprentice Keith
Smith. Travel On was a sale-
ring bargain, costing owner
Miss M. Brennan a modest
200gns., and she was happily
there cheering him to victory.
The gelding could prove a
really good four-year-old ; he
belongs to the family which
produced Moorland (A.J.C.
Derby) and Prince Bardolph
(Sydney Cup). His dam, Silver
Dawn, is by Silverburn (imp.)
from Miss Moor by Bardolph
(imp.) from La Mosca (related
to Crucis, Sydney Cup).
Four class stayers returned
to racing in the Rosehill Flying
—Bardshah, Flash Gem, Super-
tax and Travel Boy. They
all looked on the big side, but
Travel Boy came from the
middle of the field for fourth,
earning a £SO prize. The
V.R.C. and Q.T.C. Derby
winner seems now ready for an
early win, probably in Mel-
bourne. Doubtless, winner of
the Flying, had the right racing
condition, plus a 51b. allow-
ance for apprentice A. Taylor.
Carrying only 7.4, she led all
the way.
• • • •
Gimcrack Stakes winner in
her day, Civic Pride has now
thrown several smart winners,
latest of them Distinction, who


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ANASTATIA MANN late of Belmont
in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that CLARENCE
WILLIAM MANN has filed a petition
for divorce No. 4094 of 1959 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
H you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Divorce Office Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by 26th April 1960 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from R. S. WOODGATE, Solici-
tor, 27 Watt Street, Newcastle. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TmUm
Wj
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams,
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney.
landed the Juvenile Maiden at
last week’s A.J.C. “twilight”
meeting. A well-grown Pan
II (imp.) filly, being raced by
her breeder, Lionel Israel, of
Segenhoe Stud, Scone (N.5.W.),.
and trained by E. D. (“Peter”)
Lawson, Distinction is closely
related to one who could get
a bit of distance —Pride of
Egypt, winner of the A.J.C.
and V.R.C. St. Legers, the
V.R.C. Derby and other good
races. The dam was got by
Ajax from Aulone by Claro
(imp.). Her .sister, Chaperone,
will be recalled as a brilliant
galloper, with wins at Rand-
wick, Flemington and Caul-
field..
At the same “twilight” meet-
ing Prince Wilkes, one of
Darby Munro’s Randwick
team and raced by Mrs.
Munro, had an impressive win
over New Legend and the fast-
finishing Young Gallant in the
Two-year-old Maiden. The
colt is by Wenona Girl’s sire,
Wilkes (imp.), and from
Genoese (a winner at Moonee
Valley) by Dhoti (imp.) from
Genoa (V.R.C. Ottawa Stakes)
by Baralong (imp.) from
Ednaver by Pistol (imp.). ‘
Melbourne Cup winner Colo-
nus figures in the pedigree.
* * *
Great Little Enzedder
An all-time record 50,346
rolled-up at Harold Park last
Saturday night to cheer New
Zealand’s mighty atom Cadu-
ceus for his grand win in the
final of the Inter-Dominion.
The pacing classic carried a
record £15,600 in prizemoney,
and the fine little Enzedder
took the big end of it in the
near-record time of 3 min.
30f sec., with N.S.W. pacer
Apmat and Victorian Maestro’s
Melody in the places.
Caduceus, from the back
mark of 36yds., got going with
a brilliant burst of speed which
took him into sixth possie be-
fore they’d done a lap. With
several further short bursts at
a great bat, and running three-
wide, Caduceus took the lead
turning into the straight and
staved-off several challenges.
At the finish he had half-a-
length on Apmat, with
Maestro’s Melody just beating
Fettle into third place.
It was a well-deserved win
if there ever was one —the
nine-year-old’s sixth attempt to
add an Inter-Dominion to h?s
notable record. His £11,500
share of the big stake lifted
his winnings to £68,204, which
tally makes him the greatest
present-day stake-winner in
either galloping or trotting.
Another Enzedder, Thunder,
came with a lightning burst
from the rear of the field to
nose-out Sydney’s Southern
Van in the first Inter-Dominion
Consolation. In the second
Consolation event Victorian
Heroic Action, who had not
raced well in the heats, led all
the way for a convincing win.
Another win worth chalking-
up was Great Cheer’s in the
llf-furlongs Three - year - old
Stakes in a tick outside the
race record. Great Cheer has
now won 14 times from 15
starts, including six effortless
victories at headquarters—rare
form in any line of business.
** s *
Other Sports
Before the start of the
N.S.W.-W.A. and Queensland-
Victoria Sheffield Shield games
it looked as if either W.A. or
Victoria would win this season’s
Shield, to shake off N.S.W.’s
“I simply day-dreamed that I Was on TV."
grip. At the end of those two
games, with N.S.W.’s outright
defeat of W.A. and Queens-
land’s surprise outright win
over Victoria, it was pretty
certain that N.S.W. would
again win the Shield, for the
seventh successive season.
Both those games produced
some remarkable performances:
in particular, for N.S.W.
O’Neill’s flashing 175 run-out;
Benaud’s great bowling, get-
ting the same figures (6-74) in
W.A.’s two innings ; Simpson’s
98 and 161 not-out for W.A.;
in Brisbane, two good bowling
efforts by new Queensland fast-
bowler Allan. Also worth note,
W.A. skipper Meuleman’s sport-
ing gesture in playing on in the
rain to enable an N.S.W. vic-
tory.
* * *
The last time an outright win
was recorded between Victoria
and Queensland in Brisbane
was in 1952-53, when Victoria
won by seven wickets. (The
last two games in Brisbane be-
tween the two States have been
drawn, having been ruined by
rain.) Victoria was confident
of another outright win this
year, particularly when Queens-
land’s four Indian tourists with-
drew ; but Bratchford and Co.
had some surprises in store.
Last time another State won
the Shield was in that 1952-53
season, when South Australia
collected it.
* * *
Simpson certainly had a
wonderful Shield season with
the bat, scoring 902 runs in six
knocks for three times out at
an average of a round 300,
with a lowest score of 79. He
would certainly have reached
his 1000 runs had he played
the full Shield season. As well,
he bowled his leg-spinners
capably when needed ; and he
didn’t miss much in his
specialist fielding position of
first-slip. Simpson must be
one (there are a few others, too)
who could well have his bags
already half-packed for Eng-
land in 1961.
* * *
“A.L.D.”: Recently noted
here as one to watch, promising
young cricketer - footballer
Gareth Blades batted brilliantly
again in the A. W. Green
Shield final, in which his team,
Manly, beat St. George.
Gareth scored 98, including 14
fours. In the same match 16-
year-old King’s School batsman
Russell Armstrong (he's
Manly’s ’keeper) hit-up 82 in
108 minutes, stumped four St.
Georges and caught one.
* * *
“Tom”: With the admission
of a new zone —North-
Western —there will be eight
Rugby Union zones competing
in the next annual Country
Carnival in Sydney (April
22, 23 and 25). The new zone
represents Coonamble, Moree
and Walgett. As a further
indication of the progress that
Union has made in rural
N.S.W. since the end of War
11, a Country side is to make
a 12-match tour of New
Zealand from July 9 to August
13, meeting a City team in
Sydney on August 17 as a
wind-up after they get back.
* * *
Australia’s first inter-State
Soccer-club championship is
due in Sydney next month, with
the finals on the night of
March 16, 18 and 19. Teams
.representing N.S.W., Victoria,
South Australia, Queensland
and Newcastle (N.S.W-) will be
playing for the Ampol
National Trophy and £lOOO
prizemoney. In the competi-
tions in the States and at New-
castle to decide the champion-
ship reps, they’ll be whacking-
up close on another £3OOO.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIA v. SEATO
London “Time and Tide”
sees Khrushchev’s
coming visit to Indonesia as
strategically very important—
its basic purpose the eventual
disruption of Seato:
“Behind all Mr. Khrush-
chev’s peripatetic movements
lies the avowed basic Soviet
aim of disrupting Western
pacts and of eventually forc-
ing America to withdraw her
forces to within the boundaries
of the continental United
States.
“Moscow is well satisfied
with progress made in Europe
against Nato. Not only is
Nato militarily under-
nourished, but Mr. Khrushchev
considers that there are
enough differences between the
Western partners to be
exploited for some time to
come. Since the exit of
Baghdad, the Central Treaty
Organisation has been con-
siderably weakened, and the
Balkan Pact is virtually non-
existent without the participa-
tion of Yugoslavia. Now it is
the turn of Seato.
“When President Soekarno
returned from his last visit to
Moscow he stated that Indo-
nesia intended to extend her
territorial waters to a limit
of 12 miles in and around all
her 3000 islands, which stretch
from Malaya to New Guinea.
This declaration brought sharp
protests from Australia,
America and Britain. Should
these claims be enforced in
addition to those advanced by
the Chinese, who claim all the
islands in the South China Sea
down to an area west of the
Philippine island of Palawan,
all the trade-routes throughout
Australasia would be strangled.
“Today Soviet fishing-fleets
are operating both in the Bay
of Tonking and in the South
China Sea. Russia, while build-
ing roads in Borneo and con-
ducting geological research in
Java, has also undertaken to
set-up a technical school for
fishing-research, ship-repairing,
etc., on the island of Amboina,
north of Australia, to be staffed
by Soviet technicians.
Amboina was a Japanese naval
base during World War 11.
“These strategic enterprises
(favorite forms of Soviet
expansion) are taking Mr.
Khrushchev to Indonesia,
rather than any desire to
mediate in the dispute between
Peking and Djakarta over the
question of the overseas
Chinese. Because of its
geography Indonesia has
always been considered by
strategists to be a naval
problem, and as such it falls
at present within Moscow’s
orbit, since Peking has as yet
no adequate Navy.
“If all goes according to
plan Mr. Khrushchev hopes
N.Y. “Herald Tribune ."
KEEP THAT POWDER DRY, IKE!
to achieve some definite agree-
ment with President Soekarno
about maritime matters. This
could lead to the outflanking
of the Philippines and Japan,
as well as to the strangling at
will of Australasia in the
future. All this is part of
Russia’s southern expansion
along the Moscow.-Sydney
axis. Meanwhile Mr. Khrush-
chev is trying to lull Aus-
tralia’s apprehensions with
greetings and felicitations.”
Looking at Khrushchev’s
Asian tour as a whole, New
York “Herald Tribune”
columnist Marguerite Higgins
notes that, whereas he may
have a whole complex of
reasons for making it, the host
Governments —India, Nepal,
Burma and Indonesia —had “a
notable singleness of purpose”
in inviting him. After speak-
ing in Washington with
diplomats of those countries,
Miss Higgins concluded that
Khrushchev’s hosts “have
persuaded themselves that by
inviting Mr. Khrushchev to
drop in for a chat they are
taking out a kind of psycho-
logical insurance against
further major incursions (both
actual and threatened) against
them by Communist Red
China”:
“It is not that any friend of
Mr. Khrushchev’s is expected,
henceforth, to be a friend of
Mr. Mao Tse-tung’s. Nor will
any of these nations, including
most particularly India, want
or expect Mr. Khrushchev
formally to mediate their
quarrels with Peking over
borders, subversion or Red
China’s attempts (as in the case
of Indonesia and its Chinese
tradesmen) to interfere in their
internal affairs.
“It is their judgment, rather,
that by virtue of being able,
so to speak, to nail on high
a proclamation asserting
‘Khrushchev was here,’ they
will be better able to deter Red
China from initiating further
unpleasantness. For, they
reason, such moves, coming
on the heels of the Khrusb
chev visit, would seem to put
Peking at complete and spec,
tacular cross-purposes with
Moscow.
“Mr. Khrushchev’s purposes
in Asia involve, of course,
mending some of Com-
munism’s political fences. But
the aims of his host countries
are to transform the fence of
Soviet-Asian friendship into a
kind of giant psychological
barrier against the aggressive
turbulent pressures from Red
China.”
But, Miss Higgins adds,
although a lessening of inter-
Asian tensions may well be
the immediate result of
Khrushchev’s tour, there is no
reason to expect a falling-out
between Moscow and Peking:
“Rather, instead of a falling-
out, Washington expects
Peking to fall-in with Mr,
Khrushchev’s principal plans
for his Asian tour, which for
the moment are to play the
role of benevolent —and effec-
tive —peacemaker” in order to
“emerge triumphantly at the
May 16 Summit Meeting wear-
ing the halo of a hero of
peace”:
“And it is Washington’s bet
that Mr. K., a most shrewd
man, already has Peking’s
‘No Trespassing’ (for a while)
promise, or he would not have
scheduled his Asian visit in the
first place.”
Using Our Brains
TV/Tr. Khrushchev’s recent
announcement that Rus-
sian scientists are hatching a
new “fantastic” weapon has
aroused some concern to
Britain and the U.S. about
Russia’s apparently increasing
lead in military science. |
In London “News Chronicle,”
Peter Green asks how Russia
has achieved this lead and
what Britain in particular can
do to match it:
“A 20th-century axiom has
been upheld: that a country’ B
power and influence are to
direct proportion to its produc-
tive use of brain-power. j
“You hear a lot about the
massed battalions of scientists
and technicians Russia > s
churning out. This is only pah
of the answer —and at this
moment not the important part.
“The West has as many
experienced scientists as Russia
today. Soon this won’t be so
—and then Russian superiority


Ruffi iJie
Rthwe
There has been no holding Australia’s
advancement in the past ten years. It has come
partly of its own sheer force—in the natural
awakening of a country of vast resources —and
partly from our deliberate effort.
Great as the record of the 1950's has been,
I believe it will be outshone in this decade we
have just entered.
By 1970, we are told, the level of total
production in this country should be at least fifty
per cent, higher than it is now. The estimate could
be even more, depending on the technical advances
that are made and the extent to which we employ
efficient methods in industry.
This will be reflected, no doubt, in a rise in
living standards. More importantly, it should take
Australia up to a national strength in which the
things we look upon as fulfilment today will be
seen as mere pointers along the way of a far
continuing progress.
It is not to be expected, however, that the
years in happy prospect will be lived effortlessly
and easily, or free from particular problems.
Expansion demands its price; and it is a price
the payment of which cannot be deferred. The
needs of a growing population have to be met—
and currently met —in such imperatives as housing
and education; in assured outlets of employment
for an expanding work-force.
The list of essentials is long. Roads, for
instance, and adequate industrial power are high
among them. And their timely forward provision
will be required of us, in purchase of the “golden
years” ahead.
Time, we know, is the one great common
commodity of all mankind. It cannot be grown or
mined or manufactured. And for Australia right
now, it has a very special value. Other nations
are working ceaselessly to combine the industrious
and the efficient in their expanding economies.
Our double task —and in this the 1960’s could
be historic and decisive —is to build this young
country and at the same time stay well up in the
race in a highly competitive world.
y
w jll be of kind rather than
degree.
“But mere comparison of
numbers doesn’t explain our
present dilemma. The raw
answer is that we are frittering
away much of that scientific
acumen, inventive genius and
all those other Elizabethan
qualities that politicians end-
lessly claim for us.
“A country .gets the sort of
science it deserves. We are
nationally dedicated to the
proposition that we never had
it so good ; our technical effort
is increasingly spent upholding
it. This produces bigger and
brighter refrigerators, ever-
more ingenious electric-mixers
and flashier tail-fins■ for cars.
It does not, on the whole, put
a premium on questing minds
probing towards the frontiers
of knowledge, terriers snapping
at the heels of truth—activities
on which technical greatness is
built.
“The two approaches do not
go hand-in-hand. With our
limited resources, more of one
means less of the other.
“I know a young chemist
who was doing brilliant work
on soil-structure —striving to
bring a bloom to arid lands.
This sort of work doesn’t bring
quick commercial results, so
there wasn’t much money in it.
In the end, there wasn’t enough
money in it for my friend to
meet the increased commit-
ments of a growing family.
“He now works —at nearly
twice the salary—in what may
be laughingly called the
development-department of a
cosmetics-firm. He confesses
sadly that his work could be
done as well by a bright-sixth-
former with three months’
training.
“You can (multiply a
thousand-fold and more this
example of talented and
highly trained minds under-
employed, half-employed and
even—in terms of the country’s
real requirements uselessly
employed. This is the sort of
thing which makes the statistics
a hollow flattery.”
Writing on similar lines in
the New York “Herald
Tribune,” Walter Lippmann
claims that the U.S. space and
military programmes are
“second-rate” because they “do
not invite and encourage first-
rate minds.” Russia is ahead
of the U.S. because, says Lipp-
mann, Russia has put its mili-
tary weapons and its space-
Projectiles under the control of
scientists rather than soldiers or
industrialists:
“Men of genius cannot do
w hat they are capable of doing
if, as is the case today, they
are herded into separate com-
partments and told to devote
themselves to limited aims.
They will respond best if they
can believe that they are part
of a great inquiry and experi-
mentation into the nature of
the universe. In all the flourish-
ing periods of discovery and
invention the air men breathed
stimulated them to look beyond
the horizon.
“There is no such favoring
climate today. Instead we have
a philistinism which supposes
that the most original and first-
rate minds can be hired for any
job that the boss chooses for
them. And- we have a
materialism which regards the
exploration of space and,
indeed, the exploration of the
unknown, as less important
than the multiplication of
consumer-goods.
“Such philistinism and
materialism are the attributes
of a declining and second-rate
Power, and they are our real
cause for concern.”
Aubrey Jones, British M.P.,
writing in London “Sunday
Times,” would not quite agree
with Lippmann’s concluding
statements:
“There is no lack of tech-
nological enthusiasm in the
United States. The novel is
eagerly taken up, and the armed
services, in apportioning
funds for research and de-
velopment, are less concerned
whether they have an opera-
tional requirement for the work
done than whether the work
constitutes a general techno-
logical advance.
“It is this very enthusiasm,
however, which is the undoing
of the United States; for it
leads to a plethora of com-
petitive projects and needs to
be tempered by greater
thoroughness of thinking. The
national tradition and the
national psychology are the
chief barriers to improvement.
“In Great Britain, on the
other hand, the requirement is
the opposite, the relative
strength here being in funda-
mental learning, the relative
weakness in application, and
the higher prestige being
accorded to the research-
scientist rather than to the
practising engineer. The
academic tradition is old ; the
Industrial Revolution is still
comparatively young ; and time
determines the scale of values.
“What is more, in basic
research, results of importance
may be reached with little in
the way of expenditure; but
rapid application is scarcely
possible without resources, and
as compared with the United


States and the Soviet Union we
[Britain] lack resources.
“Now, in an ideal world of
interdependence the United
States and Great Britain could
complement each other, Great
Britain concentrating on basic
theory and the United States on
concrete developments. But in
the real world, even a world in
which friendly countries are
prepared to co-operate,
strength in academic research
is not a solid enough offer
against strength in application.
It may bring something in the
way of national renown, but it
commands little in the way of
a cash premium. It is not of
itself reflected in export pro-
ducts ; and with the industri-
alisation of emergent territories
the future of our [Britain’s]
export trade lies in products of
greater and greater techno-
logical refinement. Nor is it
shown in rising productivity,
the only means of breasting
the slope of ever-rising wage-
claims.
“In other words, apart from
the general tilt required in the
West towards a scientific
culture, there is also needed
within this primary tilt and as
far as this country [Britain] is
concerned a secondary tilt —
towards application.
“The need for a greater
strength by this country in
application is not yet suffi-
ciently appreciated. Indeed, the
very opposition of many aca-
demic scientists to the proposal
of a Ministry for Science was
symptomatic. It was feared
that the new Ministry might
spell some encroachment on
academic freedom.
“The tradition of academic
freedom is too strong to be
lightly interfered with, and it
has been too richly productive
of original thinking to call for
interference. The case is not
for a Ministry to deal with aca-
demic science but to give an
impulse to application. In other
words, it is a case for a
Ministry for Technology rather
than for a Ministry for Science
in the strictest sense. And it is
a case which has been con-
siderably strengthened by the
reductions in defence research
and development since 1957.”
After Algiers
'T'hree comments after the
-®- abortive demonstration of
the Algerian colons against
President de Gaulle’s policy for
a settlement with the Algerian
insurgents:
Robert C. Doty, in the “New
York Times”: “In Gaullist
circles close to the President
himself it had long been fore-
seen that a test of strength with
the hard core of European
extremists in Algeria would be
a painful but necessary pre-
liminary to any liberal settle-
ment of the Algerian problem.
“During his first 20 months
in power the President had
worked quietly to re-establish
Government authority in
Algeria, stopping short of
action that would provoke
overt revolt by the extremists.
“It would have been possible
again this time to have
avoided a showdown. Major-
General Jacques Massu, the
paratroop leader of the 1958
dissidence, when challenged on
London “New Statesman."
“ALORS—SAY ‘VIVE DE GAULLE’ AGAIN ...”
subversive statements attri-
buted to him by a German
correspondent, promptly re-
pudiated them. Face could
have been saved by accepting
his denial of the interview
without removing him from his
Algerian command —the act
that brewed the trouble.
“The fact that President de
Gaulle chose instead to pro-
voke the clash by dealing
harshly with General Massu
suggests to some observers that
he had confidence in the basic
loyalty of the Army and, hence,
in the eventual outcome of the
trial.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “The
five-year-old Moslem revolt has
already cost more than 150,000
lives. The longer it lasts, the
greater the danger that it may
undermine even President de
Gaulle’s regime and nullify the
solution he now offers. This
clearly makes it advisable for
both sides to come to terms,
on which they are really not
too far apart.
“De Gaulle’s solution calls
for Algerian self-determination
on the basis of equality for all
groups, but apparently on a
regional basis ; for prior paci-
fication by either a ‘peace of
the brave’ or intensified mili-
tary action, and in the mean-
time for Algeria’s political,
economic and social transfor-
mation. The Moslem rebels
accept both self-determination,
and a cease-fire in principle,
but refuse to end their revolt
‘on a promise’ and demand
guarantees that a referendum
on self-determination will not
be dominated by the French
Army and that it will not lead
to Algeria’s partition. Given
goodwill on both sides, it
should not be beyond wise
statesmanship to bridge these
remaining differences.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“The irony of the Algerian
tragedy is that both sides need
each other. Only Algerian
independence can drain French
politics of the poisons accumu-
lated since 1940 and free her
from the incubus of an out-of-
date imperialism. Only co-
operation with France can
help the Algerians to- escape
from poverty and overpopula-
tion.”
Soviet Sex
From a series of articles on
Russia today by Alexander
Werth in Edinburgh “Scots-
man” :
“In Moscow I picked-up a
curious book, written by a
doctor and called Problems of
Sexual Education. Among the
numerous points he makes are
these: there is so much
prudishness about these ques-
tions in Russia that children
are, unfortunately more often
than not, allowed to find out
the ‘facts of life’ for them-
selves ; also, there are so many
‘inhibitions’ on the subject that
nobody has yet dared make a
proper study of sexual behavior
in Russia.
“Having said that, the doctor
then proceeds to lay-down the
rules of what he calls ‘Socialist
conduct’ in these matters. On
the whole, he is satisfied that
the great majority of young
Russians have a strong social
and ethical sense, and refrain
from promiscuous living,
though there are, of course, still
many departures from this
rule.
“It is women, rather than
men, who suffer from such
‘departures,’ of which he quotes
many Examples of the classi-
cally-sordid type —the deceived
girl wringing her ringless
hands, and so on. Such
behavior, he says, is anti-social,
because it points to a lack of
proper human respect, an
essential feature of Socialist
society. In short, the ‘lady-
killer’ is an anti-social, anti-
Socialist type, while girls who
behave in such an unladylike
way have not been brought-up
in a responsible Socialist spirit.
“As regards adolescents, he
draws a very clear distinction
between puberty and sexual
maturity, and strongly denies
that puberty justifies the begin-
ning of a ‘love life’; on the
contrary, he holds that abso-
lute chastity between the age
of puberty and the age of mar-
riage and maturity (18 for girls,
21 for boys) ‘has never done
anybody any harm, either
physical or mental,’ and is, on
the contrary, ‘good for you.’
“He also argues strongly


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/
Yearly Subscription 22/6
m
/' £
<*A\
4
Mellow to the last wee drop...
‘White Label”
Dewar's Scotch Whisky
Because of its consistently high
quality and supremely mellow
flavour, “WHITE LABEL” has
earned the world-wide reputation
of being unvarying in character.
Now freely available and yours for
the asking. Whether you say
“White Label”, or simply “Dewar’s
please”, you can be sure of
getting the blend favoured by dis-
criminating people for over a
century.
White Label'
Dewars Scotch Whisky
“it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
"WbUe Label
tow Ats Fmi Scotch Wws«t
John DMrfc Sonstf
DWS2
against anything liable to
excite very young people’s
sexual instincts —‘that’s what
happens in the West’ —and con-
cludes that both pre-marital
and extra-marital relations
should be avoided in Soviet
society, where an orderly
family-life is by far the most
satisfactory solution for every-
body.
“A section of the book is
devoted to birth-control, which
he considers perfectly legiti-
mate and reasonable. This is,
of course, in full agreement
with the official line, which
permits the open sale of contra-
ceptives.
“This ‘Victorian’ code of
morals is not universally
observed in Russia ; even so, it
may be said that, among the
working-class, among the enor-
mous body of young tech-
nicians (though perhaps rather
less among the intellectual or
artistic elite), these rules
(except the ban on ‘pre-marital
relations’) very largely apply.
“This is encouraged by the
genuine spirit of comradeship
existing among young men and
women (working, for example,
in the same factory, school or
laboratory), by the ‘collective’
which keeps an eye on them,
as well as by the better chance
a married couple has, as com-
pared with a single person, of
getting a new house!”
Dragnet Digest
“U.S. News and World
Report” (an independent weekly
news-magazine published at
Washington): “The made-in-
America compact cars are
turning-out to be the sensation
of this new-car year. A revolu-
tion in autos, already under
way, is being speeded as a
result.
“At least six new compact
cars are in the works. The
first of these, Ford Motor
Company’s Comet, will be
introduced this month. Other
models are to come this autumn
or early in 1961. One new car
under development is being
designed to compete in the
really ‘small car’ field —
priced between $l7OO and
$lBOO.
“In recent weeks sales of
U.S.-produced compacts have
accounted for more than one
out of five new cars sold. Some
early predictions were that com-
pacts would capture only one
sale in 10.
“The outlook now in this
auto capital [Detroit] —as
some makers see it —is that,
within three to five years, half
of all the new cars made in the
United States will be compacts.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph
“It is the underlying reason
for unrest which gives Cato
Manor [the South African slum
where the ‘beer riots’ occurred]
its tragic significance. Measures
salutary in themselves, which
would be supported by public
opinion in an equitable society,
are resented in South Africa
because the motives of autho-
rity are suspect.
“Race-discrimination in the
matter of drink was originally
a paternalistic measure to pro-
tect the native, and is not
confined to South Africa. But
there it is seen as a facet of
apartheid and in the
economic circumstances of
Cato Manor—as an attempt to
depress still further the
African’s standard of living,
Similarly with slum clearance ;
no one could wish to perpe-
tuate the squalor of the shanty-
town, but its inhabitants would
rather live there than be moved
away as part of a policy of
separation. The touchstone
of apartheid is applied to
everything, and ‘welfare’ is
tainted with bitterness.”
* * *
George F. Kennan, in
‘‘Foreign Affairs”: “If Moscow
is sincere in the quest for
peaceful coexistence, and if to
this end it is prepared to
envisage a general revision, on
both sides, of the attitudes and
practices that have produced,
or have been produced by, this
dangerous state of world affairs
known as the cold war, there
will then be no lack of people
in the countries outside the
Communist orbit prepared to
lend their influence to this pro-
cess, and if need be, at con-
siderable personal cost; for it
is not in Russia alone that the
extent of the danger is
apparent,
“But if it is conceived in
Moscow that the adjustment
has all to be made on the
Western side, there will be little
that anyone on this side of the
line can usefully do to advance
coexistence beyond its present
uncertain status,
“Could we not, all of us,
now put aside the pretence of
total righteousness and admit
to a measure of responsibility
for the tangled processes of
history that have brought the
world to its present dangerous
state? And could we not, hav-
ing once admitted this, drop
the argument about whose
responsibility is greatest and
address ourselves at long last,
earnestly and without recrimin-
ation, to the elimination of the
central and most intolerable
elements of the danger?”


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director.
F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States
Agencies in all Country Centres
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME - COURT OF ~~
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO FRANCIS XAVIER CAHILL late of
Albury.—TAKE NOTICE that KATH-
LEEN THERESE CAHILL has filed a
petition for divorce number 62 of 1960
on the ground of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 26th
day of April 1960 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG & CO.,
solicitors, of Number 160, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.-—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
some are as stubborn as the
old feller there. Pity he don’t
dig that shovel into some of
the muck round the yard.”
The slushy misery of yard
and shed is relieved by Maisie’s
cheerful singing. She sings in
rhythm with her busy hands
and the ring of milk against
her bucket.
The evening meal is eaten
late, under a fizzing pressure-
lamp and a swirl of moths.
Afterwards it’s smoke-oh,
weary desultory talk and half-
interested scanning of news-
paper and magazines. Frank
appears in clean clothes and
goes out. Soon they hear him
riding away.
“Flo again?” Matt raises his
eyebrows over his specs. “Why
don’t they do somethin’ about
it?”
“Buckley’s chance while
tied-down here,” says Jerry.
“Sell-out and I might get
married myself. I damn’ sure
wouldn’t bring a wife onto a
cow farm.”
“Bah! When I got married
we lived in a tent.”
“Last time you said it was
a piano-case. Goodnight.”
Jerry lights a hurricane-lamp
and moves out to the veranda.
Roy finds himself yawning, and
follows Jerry. Turns-in and
pulls down the mosquito-net.
His last thought is, “Tomorrow
we'll get my snake!”
TTe wakes in darkness, but
roosters are crowing and
there’s a burst of kookaburra-
laughter in the ironbarks. He’s
dressing quietly when Jerry
stirs.
“Where to?”
“I’ll get the horses.”
“Good man. The old feller’ll
probably . take you after the
cows again. Saddle-up all
ready and you’ll be number-
one boy.”
“I hope so. I want my
snake.”
“Keep after him.”
Roy walks shivering in dawn
twilight and dew-wet grass,
manoeuvring the horses into a
paddock corner. He has them
saddled and ready when old
Matt appears and they ride
away, climbing once more
towards the range. Assisted by
Matt’s whip and the absent
cattledog the cows move down ;
in the growing day Roy’s hopes
rise again. Soon, now . . .
But there’s to be no snake
that day. Not even a bean
planted.
“I’m havin’ a spell today,”
Matt announces at breakfast.
“Not feeling too good.”
He retires to his veranda-
chair and stokes his pipe. Roy
studies the remarkably hale
and hearty-looking invalid for
a while, then wanders miserably
towards the creek. He’s sur-
prised the snake's still there,
still bulging in the middle. It
seems weeks since yesterday
morning when he first spotted
the snake. The creek runs
muddy and fast but seems
lower between its banks. The
snake’s roost is a good three-
feet above the water. Roy turns
away and mooches aimlessly
back along the track, not
stopping at the house.
There’s a low murmur of
voices in the dairy, and Roy
picks a bad moment to go in.
Jerry whirls, knocking a bucket
over, and glares disgustedly.
The girl in shirt and jodhpurs
opens her mouth soundlessly a
couple of times, then lifts a
basket from the floor. Roy
has seen her at the dipping-
yards with cows from a neigh-
boring farm.
“Some cakes for your
auntie,” she says at last. “Will
you take them down?”
“Aw, you’d better go your-
self, now, and say good-day
to the old girl,” Jerry tells her.
He turns away to work on
the separator. Roy leaves the
scene, walks idly among the
big trees, sits on a fallen gum.
Not a good day.
HThe following morning, after
milking, all the stock are
driven across the creek to the
big yards for the fortnightly
dipping. Crossing the bridge
Roy catches a glimpse of the
snake and for the first time
calls no attention to it. Old
Matt is obviously far too busy,
yelling and cracking his whip
in a frenzy.
The yards are shrouded in
dust and alive with noise as
bawling, whitefaced Herefords
from Koorangba station are
run through the dip. Stockmen
are on foot among them, yell-
ing and waving hats and leap-
ing for the top rail as horns
sweep by below. Roy notices
Skinny Jenkins, in a billowing
red shirt, spread-legged in the
dust.
In their turn Matt’s cows
take the plunge, the horses are
sprayed and dipping’s over.
“And not a dry cow
drowned or swallowed a gutful
and died,” Jerry comments.
“Did you want them to?”
asks Roy.
“My bloody oath! Any
stock killed at dipping the
Government pays for. Some
cockies get rid of trash that
way.”
“I felt like pushing some
trash in myself today,” says
Frank.
“In a red shirt?” Jerry’s big
grin is back again.
The stock need little atten-
tion heading for home, and
Roy lags behind. Another rider
draws in beside him. In a high-
backed saddle with outsize
kneepads sits the colorful
Skinny Jenkins.
“Taking it easy?”
'‘Taking a look at my snake.
It’s a humdinger—here, near
the bridge.”
“Whew! ” Skinny Jenkins
whistles. “Some skin, eh?
What the hell are you waiting
for?”
“Uncle Matt wants the creek
to go down and that lump in
his belly to go down.”
“Yeah, good idea. He’ll keep
for a while.” Skinny Jenkins
turns his horse and rides away.
Tn the kitchen Frank is wash-
A ing-down dust with a mug
of tea.
“I showed Skinny Jenkins
my snake,” Roy tells him.
“He”
“That makes two of ’em,”
Frank grunts.
Roy goes outside and sits
under the jacaranda.
Matt comes out hatless and
glowering, carrying a paper
bag. He takes long strides to
an empty garden plot and dents
the earth savagely with the
heel of his boot. Quickly and
without ceremony the beans
are planted.
“You might give ’em a
drink later on,” he barks at
Roy, and goes back to the
house. Aunt Jess appears, in-
spects the scuffed surface of the
bean-plot and goes on to the
fowlyard. Returning with eggs
held in her apron she pauses
near the jacaranda.
“You mustn’t mind your
uncle, Roy. Arguments upset
him, that’s all. Frank had to
go talking to him about the
farm. He’ll be right as pie
soon.”
After the midday meal Matt
slumps into his veranda-chair
with a bundle of newspapers
just arrived. He fills his pipe,
lights it and balances his
glasses down on his nose.
Aunt Jess bustles out, a letter
in one hand, and seems to
be looking for something. She
abandons the search, plucks
Matt’s glasses from his nose
and takes her letter inside.
“Dammitall, woman!’'
Matt leaps to' his feet and
stands fuming and spluttering.
Throws down the papers,
grabs his hat and stamps off
the veranda.
He reappears riding, with a
rifle and the ’roo-dog Splinter.
Roy watches Matt head-off
and goes for his own pony.
“Might start up a ’roo or
something,” Matt grunts when
Roy catches up.
Matt’s stil| seething. They’re
in fairly open forest with a
lot of fallen trees when
Splinter gathers his haunches
and leaps away. In a flash he's
a bounding brindle streak and
Matt is going after him full
gallop. Roy’s knees grip tight
and he lets his pony dodge or
jump the timber, crouching low
under hurtling branches and
barely keeping the chase in
sight.
They come into a space of
ringbarked trees and Roy
sights the red ’roo going in
prodigious flying leaps ahead
of the dog. Like the ’roo the
dog sails high over fallen
timber. Suddenly Splinter stops
in mid-air as though he’d hit
a brick wall. Roy leans back
and drags his pony to a stand-
still. There’s silence but for
the distant thudding of the
’roo.
Matt is out of the saddle
looking quietly at the dog.


Splinter hangs spitted on a
dead branch, and he, too, is
dead.
“It’s all in the game,” Matt
says. That, and no more. Roy
knows better than to talk.
A bad day, Roy thinks, riding
home. No snake today. Bui
when they let the horsds go in
the home yard he walks to-
wards the creek. The beer-
colored water is noticeably sub-
dued and so is the bulge in the
snake’s belly.
“It’ll have to be tomorrow,”
Roy mutters aloud.
Matt remains silent riding up
for the cows until he begins
cracking his whip at the
scrubby gullies and yelling at
the non-existent cattledog.
Roy can imagine Matt, at the
sight of a red kangaroo, sool-
ing-on the ghost of Splinter.
Mext day, after morning-
" milking, Roy is all urgency.
“The carpet snake, Uncle!
We’ll have to get him now.
The creek's down and he’ll be
off”
“All right, all right! Bring
me rifle and a rope from the
barn. We’ll get your bloody
snake! ”
“Roy, me boy, you’ve won
the battle,” says Jerry.
At the bridge there’s no need
to dismount. The creek
murmurs quietly. The snake’s
forked branch is raised over the
tawny water. The snake has
gone.
Matt pushes the old hat back
and scratches his head, sneak-
ing a sideways glance at the
b°y. Roy wheels his pony off
the bridge and, on the creek-
bank, peers under and around
the tree. Blinking back tears.
“He won’t be there,” Matt
greased, topped-up with water
and petrol and generally vetted
during the afternoon.
Someone shouts from out-
side: “You there Frank?
Jerry?”
“Yeah! Come in!”
He’s a lean young fellow
wearing a loose gaberdine suit,
and the suit jerks Roy from
his lethargy. It’s liberally
spattered with blood.
“Good God, Smithy—been
in an accident?” says Jerry.
“No —couple of postmortems
at Schulberg’s. A bit of three-
day sickness among the cows.
There’s more of it at
Koorangba. Mystery thing.
It’s got me licked. You driving
to the dance?”
“My word! Put your horse
away and come along. This is
Roy. Smithy’s the local
carrion, Roy.”
“The Government veterinary-
officer,” corrects Aunt Jess.
yells unnecessarily. “Gone
hunting again.”
“We could have got him
yesterday! We could have!
You just didn’t want to!”
“No good doin’ your block.
He’s gone.”
“You knew he’d go.”
“I knew nothing of the sort.
Come on, now. I’ll get a skin
before you go home. Know
just where to look for them
fellers. Plenty more of ’em.”
“Not that big. There’ll never
be another one that big!”
“Don’t carry-on like a
woman! C’mon —it’s mornin’-
tea time.”
Another bad day. Roy mopes
through it, inconsolable. He
doesn’t enjoy riding after the
cows in the afternoon, he
doesn’t enjoy his food.
After the evening-meal
Frank and Jerry bath and
dress-up and spend a lot of
time polishing their boots.
There’s a dance at Koorangba
station. A big occasion, this,
and the Chev. has been oiled,
“Are you going like that.
Smithy?”
“I won’t be in the spotlight;.
I’ll be outside with a jug of
beer!”
“I hope those fellers are
back for the milking,” Matt
grunts as the Chev. starts-up.
Roy mutters a goodnight and
goes to bed.
Terry and Frank are huddled
lumps under their mosquito-
nets as Roy pulls on his clothes
in the morning, but they’re at
the cowshed when the cows
come down. Frank’s face is a
mess. Black eye, bruises and
a swollen lip.
“What happened?” asks Roy,
staring.
“Nothing much:
“You should’ve seen him,
Roy,” says Jerry, grinning
widely. “Had more gore on
him than Smithy.”
“Who did he fight?”
“Aw, he had to pick on
poor inoffensive little Skinny
Jenkins.”
“And did Frank get beaten!”
“Beat by that flash bastard! ”
Frank explodes. “I flattened
him! ”
“Gee what did you go
him for?”
“Aw, he was just sticking to
Flo like flypaper. All night.
Talk and skite. Showing-off
with a bloody great snakeskin.
Going to make Flo a belt,
bag, shoes and God knows
what else”
“A big snakeskin!”
“A real giant of a skin.
Carpet-snake. You could make
a rug with it.”
Roy is fighting back tears
again. “I’ll b-bet it’s m-mine! ”
‘‘l’ll bet it’s yours, too,” says
Frank. “It’s in a sugar-bag
under your bed.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Heatwave —and After
It’s quite true (B. 3/2/’6O)
that Sydney’s weather has never
been so well publicised by the
daily press as during the recent
heatwave. It’s equally true
that many other parts of the
continent have similar condi-
tions every summer and say
nothing about them. It would
be news indeed if some centres
got through even a mild
summer with fewer than a
score of over-century readings.
But there’s no disputing that
Sydney has never had such a
prolonged burst of heat since
the Weather Bureau was set-up
about a century ago.
The commercial broadcasting-
stations joined in the scramble
to tell the world about Sydney’s
mounting temperatures; but
with characteristic caution the
A.B.C. declined to follow suit.
1 can recall the commission
broadcasting hourly readings
only once, and fhat was in
1939, when Sydney had its
record high of 113.6 deg. Even
then the pace was set by a
commercial station ; and it was
only after the commission’s
switchboard had been swamped
with calls demanding a similar
service that the general-
manager authorised his pro-
gramme-controller to break the
programme every hour with
weather reports.
The A.B.C. has always been
shy of giving the temperature
during hot spells, particularly
since a visiting American
broadcaster some years ago
suggested it wasn’t good policy
to do so. “It's always a lovely
day in Chicago,” he told the
commission, adding that that
was how he began his daily
broadcast. That may be good
policy in the U.S., but the
Australian public likes to know
the facts about the weather.
What must have really got
under the skin of many people
after the recent heatwave was
a special article in the “Sydney
Morning Herald” saying, in
effect, that most of the high
readings reported (apart from
the ones at the Weather
Bureau) were really “hot air”
—in other words, they were
all hooey, simply because they
weren’t taken in proper con-
ditions. The article told how
to take a correct reading if you
hadn’t a proper cabinet to pro-
tect the thermometer from the
heat —whirl it around your
head for a few minutes while
standing in the shade of a large
tree.
As an example of how mis-
leading readings taken any
other way can be, the writer
told of having once investigated
a reported reading of 150 deg.
and found it had been taken
inside a foundry. Well, in the
name of commonsense, what
was wrong with that? The
only thing that mattered to
the men working in that foun-
dry was the temperature there.
“We re out of gondolier !”
If it was 150 deg. no amount of
scientific argument could gain-
say that fact. Ten yards away
in another room it may have
been only lOOdeg. and a ther-
mometer showing that reading
would be correct for that
particular area. But to suggest
that we should standardise our
temperatures on the reading,
taken at the Weather Bureau,
or whirl our thermometers in
the shade of trees to get the
so-called correct reading, sends
my blood up to century-heat.
The highest temperature I’ve
ever had the misfortune to
endure was 118 deg. at Grafton
about 50 years ago. It wasn’t
a home - made temperature
either —it was taken at the
Grafton post-office, where, I
presume, they had the prdper
cabinet to protect the thermo-
meter from the searing north-
westerly. The best evidence
that the reading was a true
one was the death-toll amongst
poultry and bush-birds and the
fields of young maize, burnt
white, which farmers began
cutting-out next day. — Peter
Simple (N.S.W.).
Madame Blavatsky
Reading the review of
“Madame Blavatsky—Medium,
and Magician” (B. 30/12/’59)
I wonder how much “N.L.”
knows of theosophy and the
Theosophical Society.
I’m not a theosophist, but
it seems to me the review
repeats the book’s incompetent
judgments. Madame Blavat-
sky, no matter how odd,
eccentric and fantastic a per-
sonality, completely sacrificed
the second half of her life to
her ideal, the founding of the
Theosophical Society, with its
aims of forming (a) a nuc-
leus of the universal brother-
hood of mankind, without dis-
tinction of race, creed, sex,
color or cast ; (b) to encourage
the study of comparative relig-
ion, philosophy and science and
(c) to investigate unexplained
laws of Nature and the powers
latent in man.
It strikes any unbiased person
as very odd that a 19th-
century “crank” should reveal
in her books such an intimate
knowledge and understanding
of ancient Eastern philosophy
—a fact which can be proved
by going directly to the
Sanskrit manuscripts formerly
so jealously guarded. Just how
did she get that knowledge and
why did she toil so selflessly,
reaping but calumnies? If she
was such a fraud, how do these
facts fit in?
It seems the Theosophical
Society is still regarded in
some quarters as a den of
frauds, cranks, and mystery-
mongers, headed originally by
an impostor. Yet among its
members and sympathisers are
some distinguished professors,
doctors of medicine and philos-
ophy, whose work has always
been directed towards the
betterment of mankind.
If the author of the
book had done his job pro-
perly he would have revealed
all the facts. He seems to
have produced yet another lop-
sided account that the public
is too prone to gobble. — Old
Bookworm (W.A.).
N.T. on the Move
Tell D. C. Tilghman (B.
4/11/ ’59) that The Commer-
cial Bank of Australia, Ltd.,
had a branch at Darwin about
50 years ago and has been con-
tinuously represented there
since then except for a short
period. This interruption was
due to the bombing of Darwin
by the Japs and the forced with-
drawal of banks from the area
under National Security Regu-
lations. The C.8.A., Ltd., was
back again in business as soon
as allowed to do so. —C. B. M.
(N.S.W.).
Anti-Semitism and
Freedom
At the meeting called at
Sydney Town Hall to protest
against the outbreak of anti-
Semitic slogan-daubing in
many countries, N.S.W.
Assistant Minister N. J.
Mannix said that the State
Government “would draft
whatever law was necessary to
stop anti-Semitic activities in
N.S.W.”
Such legislation would be
both premature and undesir-
able. Anti-Semitism has never
reared its head in this country.
Two or three cases of slogan-
daubing here mean nothing.
They are probably the work of
vandals of the type who smear
walls with other kinds of
slogans—or, perhaps, of Com-
munists.
A law against anti-Semitic
activities would be hard to
frame without curbing genuine


Now in Book-form
"Duke" Tritton's
“TIME MEANS TUCKER”
> \ i?/
•& u
r V'.j, \
a
fA
z
V. •
.r- -it
A.
This factual account of a shearer-drover’s experiences
in the sheds and on the track has proved to be one of
the most popular serials ever printed in “The Bulletin.”
Reader-demand for the story in book-form has been
constant.
It’s now off the press—and the price has been kept
down to 10s. a copy, post free.
PLEASE USE COUPON BELOW.
Available also over-the-counter from branch offices in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
ORDER FORM
Book Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please post copy/copies of
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"
by H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE......
Price per copy, 10s.
{Post free) Amount enclosed
liberty of speech. Criticism
of the political activities of
Jewish organisations, for
example, cannot reasonably be
called anti-Semitism. One with
no dislike of Jews as such
might think it desirable in the
public interest to expose the
conduct of a particular Jewish
organisation,
A Sydney newspaper lately
ran some critical comment on
the alleged partisan political
activities of the N.S.W. branch
of a Roman Catholic lay body
called the Knights of the
Southern Cross. If directed
against a Jewish organisation,
such comment would have been
classed in some quarters as
anti-Semitism. Terry the
Tory (N.S.W.).
Darwin’s Centenary
Tut, tut, Martin Haley (B.
27/1 / ’60)! Debunking of
Darwin’s Origin of Species
and the theory of evolution
needs heavier artillery than the
pseudo-scientific, Bergson-in-
spired Darwin and the Dar-
winian Revolution by Dr.
Gertrude Himmelfarb.
Let’s be clear about things.
The whole scientific world cele-
brated the centenary of Dar-
winism in 1958, 100 years
having passed since the famous
joint papers on Natural Selec-
tion by Charles Darwin and
Alfred Russel Wallace were
laid before the Linnasan
Society of London. The exact
date was July 1, 1858.
In November, 1859, Darwin
published On the Origin of
Species by Means of Natural
Selection. The book, in a
grand and unique sense, is
now outdated because of fresh
discoveries and the mass of
evidence provided by new
sciences born since those days.
The theory, which still holds
its ground after undergoing
headlong assault, can be stated
in this way: Species continually
undergo evolution and adapta-
tion from common ancestral
species; the individuals in a
species are not all identical;
some variants succeed better
than others in the competition
for survival, and the parents of
the next generation will be
naturally selected from those
most effectively adapted to
their environment; subsequent
generations will by gradual
change maintain and improve
on the degree of adaptation
realised by their parents.
I am well aware that this is
an oversimplification and con-
tains gaps open to attack; but
nevertheless it can safely be
said that the theory of evolu-
tion is now universally accepted
in scientific circles. Substanti-
ation is lucidly outlined in
Darwin’s Century: Evolution
and the Men Who Discovered
It, by Loren Eiseley. The last
chapters of this book give such
an unbiased account of the
problems involved in the theory
that, unless one had read from
the very first page, one would
assume that the author was an
opponent of natural selection
and its champions.
Without the aid of research-
interpreters, the subject is
beyond most of us. But Loren
Eiseley's book gives all the
pros and cons in a manner suit-
able for the average bloke.—
Ben Backslider (Vic.).
Free Education
Round about the time the
results of the N.S.W. Leaving
Certificate examination were
announced, the French
National Assembly voted
£20,000,000 by way of State
assistance to private schools.
The Assembly approved the
measure by an overwhelming
vote of 427 to 71—yet this
question has caused bitterness
in France during the past 60
years.
The fact that this law could
be passed, and the increased
Government grants made to
private schools in England,
seems to indicate a change of
attitude to this vexed question.
The published list of the
“first hundred” in the Aus-
tralian L.C. included 38 pupils
from N.S.W. private schools,
who were presumably brought
to this high standard at no
cost to the State.
Australia shouldn’t be the
last country in the world to
grant free or assisted primary
and secondary education to all
its future citizens.—K. A. R.
(N.S.W.).
The Atom Submarine
In a recent Bulletin article
the idea of a nuclear-powered
submarine-force for Australia
was dismissed on the grounds
of the great financial and tech-
nical difficulties involved.
Surely these factors should be
balanced against the tre-
mendous value of such weapons
for the defence of this country.
Almost 100 years ago an event
occurred in the American Civil
War which had a profound
effect on naval strategy. This
was the clash between the Con-
federate ironclad Merrimac and
the Union ironclad Monitor.
Churchill, in his Great Demo-
cracies, claims that this combat
wrought the greatest change in


sea-fighting since cannon fired
by gunpowder were first
mounted in ships, some 400
years earlier. Now, at a time
when the Commonwealth
Government is contemplating
the creation of a submarine-
force, a fleet of United States
atomic submarines has once
more revolutionised sea-war-
fare.
In Australian defence-plan-
ning the question of cost
should be weighed against the
great strategic advantages such
a fleet would give us. Several
atomic submarine - tankers
might even turn the scale for
us in the event of a blockade.
The value of a submarine-force
can be seen from a study of the
Doenitz memoirs. The German
U-boat Command, with a mere
skeleton-force, inflicted tre-
mendous damage. For months
at a time this force numbered
fewer than 24 operational Ü-
boats, and many of these were
of the small 250-ton class. —
G. Templeton (Vic.).
Housing the Multitude
There seems to be a tacit
agreement between land specu-
lators and the Sydney City
Council to build bigger,
brighter and better rabbit-
warrens to house Sydney’s
rapidly increasing population.
Highly desirable residential
sites are being acquired ; homes
reminiscent of days of gracious
living torn down ; other areas
GENTLEMEN! - YOU ARE
NOW ABOUT TO WITNESS
MY RESIGNATION FROM
THE CLUB. ?
are besmirched with multi-
storied eyesores. The concen-
tration of industrial under-
takings within the city proper
and inner suburbs, and the
acquisition by State instrumen-
talities and private concerns of
rows and rows of sub-standard
houses, have disrupted the lives
of many who now are in need
of housing.
It seems to be a matter for
the State, through its Housing
Commission. At present, the
City Council is acting to
acquire and demolish street
after street of slum-houses right
in the heart of industrial
Sydney and to plan the erec-
tion of multi-storied home-
units.
This is all to the good: but
why re-establish workers in the
heart of the city, to live night
and day in an atmosphere
polluted with industrial gases,
smoke and grime, with a neces-
sarily constricted social organ-
ism? Is it, perhaps, merely
because rabbit-warren housing
concentrates voters and poten-
tial voters in the industrial
heart of the city?—J. S.
(N.S.W.).
Late Shopping
I’ll wager that the family-
grocer, who has had to stand
by his customers during depres-
sions, periods of unemploy-
ment and sickness, will not
want a Friday shopping-night.
Unable to buy in such large
quantities as the chain-stores
and self-service stores, he has
to charge a little more for his
goods.
Many of his customers
appear to have poor memories.
They forget the days when he
let them run-up quite a large
bill, and they catch the bus to
the larger shopping-centres to
get the benefit of lower prices.
Some of these customers call
in on the way home to buy
the sugar and other heavy and
bulky articles which chain-
stores either do not sell or sell
at the same price as the little
family-grocer.
How much credit would the
chain-stores give their cus-
tomers in the event of another
depression, unemployment or
even family sickness? I believe
that the little family-grocer
would be expected to carry
the burden again.— Eureka
(N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 578
Across
I—How 8-across may be. The curious curtain calms
it. (14)
8— Need vice in statements before a court. (8)
9 Don’t keep her dry mutton. (6)
11 — Negative takes all force from the offices of beginners. (10)
12— Black business taking on. (4)
13— Furless things which can be scented. (8)
15 —It makes a certain kind of horse bark for water. (3)
18— Hardened clique. (3)
19— Plant mate for some lady
duck. (8)
23 You put the hat on back to
front in this state. (4)
24 Diana, a cove can take a river
in Australia. (10)
26 — Fish backing rocky mountains
where medical men may be
found. (7)
27 — African city excursion needs oil
mixed when game. (7)
28— Those who misunderstand each
other may be at such objectives
in East Sydney. (5, 8)
Down
1— Dull fencing is a reformed
materials for the wash-up,
etc. (8, 6)
2 Put your money back into check
waistcoat. (8)
3 Gallicised one with a place for
having dinner inedible. (9)
4 Land-tenure company’s upset
over an enclosure. (7)
5 Late with Eastern money. (4)
6 Palpitating in Hobart. (6)
7 King George with one who
drugs a muscular twitch suitable
for La Scala. (5, 8)
10 —Bewitch no woman with a
kiss. (3)
14—Aggregate. (3)
16—A Daniel can love move-
ment. (9)
17 —Ban the thing with one
singer. (8)
20 — Half a day at the New York
opera with Queen Elizabeth as
an indicator of the charg-
ing. (7)
21 — One may be born with' this
sign, and growth is inevit-
able. (6)
22 Moors mercery nightcap? (4, 2)
25 —They do some arresting business
correspondence. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 577


I a
™*X>
m
. 4 ;
mmm
mim
3
SMS
SSSSSSSS®
now they're
LIFETIME LUBRICATED
track rollers for
CAT Crawler Tractors
Maintenance free
• No greasing
» No seal failure
Built to last even longer
• Extra wide flanges resist
rollover
• Big steel hub counteracts
bellmouthing
9 Larger diameter rims
facilitate rebuilding
Caterpillar Lifetime Lubricated Rollers incorporate the biggest advancement in seal
design in 50 years. It's the new Cat Floating Ring Seal that eliminates springs,
diaphragms and ordinary facing materials. The floating ring seal facings are metal
—metal more wear resistant than file steel! About 100 pounds of even, constant
pressure is exerted by two rubber "0" rings on each side of the metal rings, holding
the lapped facings so snug lubricant can't get out, grit can't get in. Seal wear is
barely measurable even after hundreds of hours of operation—and the seals can be
re-used, over and over again.
These lifetime rollers are one example of the quality construction of every
part that goes together to make a Caterpillar Track-type Tractor. This inbuilt
quality ensures the longest tractor life, the least tractor downtime and more
profitable, more economical operation.
(rf>©
oi
A Caterpillar Track-type Tractor is your most profitable investment .
' r -T-
See your local W & J representative
today. He can give you the full
unbeatable Caterpillar story.
CATERPILLAR
•CATERPILLAR, CAT and TRAXCAVATOR are Registered Trademarks
cf Caterpillar Tractor Co,, U.S.A.
TRACTORS, MOTOR GRADERS, EARTHMOVING EQUIP-
MENT, INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE DIESEL ENGINES.
Said, serviced and backed to the hilt in N.S.W. by:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
WJ241.115
YEARS A
CATERPILLAR
DEALER
Head Office: Mitchell Road, Alexandria, Sydney. 'Phone: LA 6631.
Branches at Gunnedah, 'phone 326; Parkes, 'phone 1266; Wagga, 'phone
8237; South Grafton, 'phone 392; Inverell, 'phone 1400; Cooma, 'phone 657;
Moree, 'phone 208.
SALES MANAGER: Mr. S. KlNG—'Phone 57 7906. ASSISTANT SALES MANAGER: Mr. D.
Coleman—after hours: WJ 3647. SALES ENGINEER: Mr. C. Davidson—after hours: JF 5782.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
HORSES
From R. W. C.
Reference to nouns of
assembly crops up in The
Bulletin from time to time,
but no one has mentioned that
in the English language there
is no collective for the species
Equidce .
Indubitably we have “mob ’
in Australianese, but that ;s
also loosely applied to any.
group of animates, including
our own weird selves. Byron
establishes the English version
in “Mazeppa”—“A trampling
troop, I see them come and
the North Americans of early
colonisation spoke of a "band";
but each of these has human
associations: a troop of
cavalry ; a band of Indians.
The reason for this lack of
a word seems to be that since
the dawn of human history
the horse has been so close
to man that it has been regarded
as an individual rather than
as a herd or mob. (Queerly,
the only other animal close to
man without a noun of
assembly is the dog. There is
By crossing a Welsh
Mountain sheep with a
Scotch Blackface the
Breeders at the Rhydy-
gla f e s Agricultural
Research Station,
Merionethshire, Wales,
hope to produce a strain
of sheep that can spend
the whole of its life
out on the hills, and
live off rougher pastures
even than those which
now support the Welsh
Mountain breed.
Graziers in Australia
are also striving to pro-
duce better sheep, and
one way that is helping
them considerably is the
Elastrator method of
Castration and Tailing.
Elastrator not only
lessens the risk of fly-
strike, but also prevents
set - back, which
usually occasioned oy
old-fashioned methods
of Castration and
Tailing.
no such thing as a “pack” of
wild dogs. So-called wild dogs
are delinquents neglected by
humans, and always keep near
human habitation.)
Though there are often said
to be mobs of wild horses in
countries from Peking to Peru,
"Willie's got nightmare again.”
this is not so. The mobs of
Mongolia, since ancient times,
have been owned and branded
by groups of nomads who ran
them in controlled herds of
several hundreds for mutual
protection against packs of
wolves. These horses have
always been culled and sold
into neighboring countries.
The brumby and the wild
horse of. the Pampas were intro-
duced by Europeans. Brumbies
were once a self-supporting
pooi for Indian remounts ; they
almost reached plague propor-
tions, but they are rapidly
vanishing since cavalry no
longer needs horses. The
vaqeros of South America ride
only stallions, culled from the
free-running mobs a most
effective form of mob-control.
Bones of an antediluvian
horse have been found in the
sedimentary beds of both the
Americas dating from the
pliocene and pleistocene eras.
As that was the period of the
Great Ice Age, it is thought
that the beasts were drowned
and buried out of existence by
the melting ice-caps.
Similar fossils of the same
eras have been found in
Europe, including Britain
(until then unseparated by the
rising sea-level). Engravings on
antlers done at that time show
the horse to have been big-
headed, thick-necked and
heavy-maned. Later, in the
paleolithic epoch—2o,ooo years
ago —primitive artists made
beautiful paintings of horses
and ruminants, which today
can be seen in deep caves in
France and Spain. The fact
that these paintings always
show females in a gravid con-
dition indicates that man was
primarily interested in preg
nancy in his stock, and the con-
sequent promise of a continuity
of tucker.
There is considerable evi-
dence that horses were bred
for meat throughout the Euro-
Asian land-mass. Their bones
have been found in kitchen-
middens all over the vast con-
tinent. Roman invaders
reported the horse as the
staple diet of the Ancient
Britons, and Scandinavians ate
horse as a special dish in honor
of Odin. Lake-bottoms under
the remains of prehistoric pile-
houses of the Swiss lake-
dwellers are thick with the
bones of horses and other
herbivores.
Horsemeat was popularly
eaten until the Bth century
a.d., when the Church pro-
scribed the habit, but from
an elegant metrical grace-
before-meat, still extant, we
know that horse was eaten by
epicurian monks of St. Gall,
in Switzerland, until the 11th
century a.d.
Sculptures and paintings of
Ancient Egypt and Assyria
show how the horse has been
transformed physically from
the crude beast of paleolithic
times into the graceful animal
of today, though it still
remained primitive outside the
perimeter of the Near East.
The first mention of horses
in written history is in
Genesis, where Joseph cor-
nered the corn of Egypt, and
then doled it out to the
peasantry for bread in ex-
change for their horses and
other livestock. These came
from Arabia, where, in the
isolation of the desert, the
mathematically-minded Arabs
had, for a thousand years or
so, perfected the art of selec-
tive breeding, with all its charts
and family-trees.
A well-bred horse was now
an item of high finance, so
expensive that for 1000 years
the battles of the world were
fought on foot. Horse-drawn
chariots were the privilege of
brass-hats, and among the
Greeks a man who rode a horse
was regarded as a freak of
nature —a centaur.
Horse became the highest
sacrifice that could be made to
the gods ; and when the Greeks
offered to atone for their sin
of stealing the image of Pallas
from Troy's citadel the rever-
ential Trojans permitted entry
to their beleaguered city of a
huge wooden symbolic horse.
In compensation they get the
phrase “Beware the Greeks
bearing gifts.”
The Old Testament has
remarkably few references to
horses, and it is one of the
peculiarities of the Hebrews
that, in a country entirely sur-
rounded by horse-users, they
never became horsemen. The
kings David and Solomon, in
the 10th century 8.C., did muster
an army of horses and chariots
from Egypt, paying 150
shekels of silver per beast, but
Job (15th century b.c.) only
had hearsay and poetical
illusions:
Hast thou given the horse
strength? hast thou clothed his neck
with thunder? Canst thou make
him afraid as a grasshopper? tne
glory of his nostrils is terrible.
He paweth in the valley, and
rejoiceth in his strength: he goetn


By every test . . .
0i
»
V
7
I
/A
sty
\
Whether you are looking for
efficiency, simplicity, economy or
dependability, the Tilley Storm
Lantern represents incomparable
value for money. It gives you 12
hours of 300 candle power light
on only 1 i pints of kerosene.
It gives years of reliable, trouble-
free service under all conditions —it’s
wind and weather
proof!
£6. 17.6 (freight extra outside metropolitan area)
REGD.
you can trust your Tilley
IT’S 100% BRITISH MADE
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Auitralia. In eaie of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
on to meet the armed men. He
mocketh at fear, (xxxix 19-22.)
In contrast, the Ancient
Britons tamed and trained and
ate their sturdy little ponies
from as far back as can be
guessed. Everlasting war be-
tween the 30-odd kings of
Britain had made the woaded
warrior an efficient cavalry-
man and charioteer—with un-
cricket-iike scythes lashed to
the hubs. When Julius Caesar
arrived without his horse-troops
(they were delayed by storm)
the British centaurs fell upon
him and drove him back across
the Channel. No doubt it was
then said the P. 8.1. was out-
moded.
After the ultimate Roman
conquest the British horse im-
proved with selective breeding,
becoming heavier and so able
to carry an armored
rider, and by the 10th century
a.d. the native breed had been
so improved by introduced
koman-Arabic stock that there
was a demand for the beasts on
the Continent. King Athelstane
prohibited export, and im-
ported Arabs from the Moors
occupying Spain.
After 1066 armor became
heavier, and horses were bred
to cope with it. Increasing
agriculture also demanded a
draught-type (the Shire horse
of today), and King John im-
ported a hundred Flanders
stallions for that democratic
purpose.
Later, Edward 111, being
fond of hunting, imported more
Spanish stock to breed-up a
light, fast hunter, and so
founded the type of present-
day blood-horse, as distinct
from the draught-horse.
James I is recorded in having
paid £5OO for an Arabian
stallion. This sum, multiplied
to bring it up to present-day
money-value, would be equal to
the price of a modern cham-
pion.
The English continued im-
provements until the Darley
Arabian and the Moorish Barb
fixed the breed for the institu-
tion of the English Stud Book.
Darwin, who investigated
everything, said that the cause
of modifications in the form
of horses comes from the
varying conditions of life.
Horses living in mountainous
regions or on small islands
become reduced in size from
Want of variety in food. So
We have Shetland and Welsh
Ponies and the small Mongolian
horse of the high Asiatic
s kppes.
The prototype Arab, how-
ler, was not bred on the sands
of the desert, as many imagine,
but on well-cultivated areas.
It is a result of scientific
selective breeding and feeding
which has transmogrified the
paleolithic mob into as many
forms of utility as there are
types of internal-combustion
machines. Perhaps that is why
the horse has no noun of
assembly.
Packaged Milk
“Windy": A Swedish
machine that makes its own
packs and fills them with milk
is proving popular in Australia,
and already 10 machines are
being used in the various States.
A roll of waxed paper,
printed with the brand of the
company, is fed into the top
of the machine. The paper is
treated with polythene on the
inside and waxed on the out-
side.
As paper is fed through the
machine it is sealed length-
wise by heat. Milk is fed into
the sealed roll of paper, and the
tube of milk is sealed at both
ends by heated metal clamps.
The tube is then severed by a
guillotine, so that each pack
contains the correct amount of
milk.
The machine automatically
packs the cartons of milk in
cases or crates of 18, thus saving
labor-costs in later handling.
This versatile machine can
be adjusted for lpt., |pt. and
loz. packs. The last size is used
mainly for morning- and after-
noon-teas in shops and offices
or on picnics.
One man can operate the
machine, which turns out 3600
pint-packs or 5400 ounce-packs
an hour.
Packaged milk is safe and
clean. The cartons are air-
tight and take up about one
half the space of a normal pint
milk-bottle. And the company
doesn’t have the expense of
collecting bottles, washing them
and standing the cost of
breakages.
So it won’t be long before
all milk comes in packages.
The only snag is, who will wake
us in the morning? The
packages don’t rattle like
bottles.
Integration in Food
Production
“Pieter Nuyts”: Australian
food-producers may soon be
forced to think deeply about
vertical integration, a trend in
food-production which has
shown itself in North America
and Britain. In few words, it
amounts to one management
gaining control of all phases
of one particular line of pro-
duction. The most notable
example in the U.S. is broiler-
poultry, now almost entirely
controlled by integrated groups.
Depending on how you look
at the matter, integration can
be the savior of an industry
or a monopolistic bloodsucker.
It usually starts when some
big interest say, a poultry-
food producer—extends credit
on the security of a producer’s
returns and ensures those
returns by advising the pro-
ducer how to manage his
farm, as a condition of extend-
ing the credit. It’s a series of
logical steps from there to
arranging purchase or hatching
of the chicks and sale of eggs
or broilers—and there you have
an industry “integrated” from
start to finish.
Looked at one way, this is
a “take-over” by big business
and a crowding out of small,
independent operators who
have battled along well enough
to make a living or a bit more.
It can seem very like a pistol
held at the heads of those who
won’t “co-operate”—they can
find it hard to market their
produce when integrated con-
cerns become the biggest pro-
ducers, the biggest wholesalers,
and even the biggest retailers.
On the other hand, it could
simply be the combination of
business and agriculture to their
mutual benefit. The gravest
danger lies in one partner Claim-
ing and securing a dispropor-
tionate share of the profits.
Integration brings every
phase of the industry under a
single management, which is
in a position to plan production,
eliminate waste of time and
effort, and arrange delivery of
the produce, in order to
obtain the best prices and in-
crease consumption. It takes
control of such necessary, but
sometimes apparently unrelated,


Established 1868
ontractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
■jackson &
-O'SUUJVAJW
w >»s
MARK
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
aspects as advertising, economy
and method.
As the poultry industry stands
now, hatcheries advertise be-
cause their chicks go to a
variety * of customers with
roughly the same needs but
different ideas of how to fill
them. Those customers
poultryfarmers operate in
conditions of varying efficiency,
but all have overlapping ex-
penses and a lot of work out
of proportion to their output.
The egg-producer hasn’t a
great say in marketing his
eggs they go to a board ;
where poultry-meat is con-
cerned the producer is more-
or-less out on a limb. If
he’s a member of a co-operative
he may be better placed for
bargaining, but co-ops can
bargain only within the frame-
work of existing prices. They
can’t do anything about reduc-
ing costs or ensuring against
shortage or glut.
Under integrated manage-
ment a number of hatcheries,
depending on the scope of the
organisation, can be geared
to supply an appropriate
number of farms, with efficient
management guaranteed by
competent advisers who have
sufficient influence to enforce
their recommendations and
secure the necessary financial
backing. These farms can be
supplied with feed from one
source, eliminating unnecessary
deliveries and storage, and
their hardware requirements
can be met in the same way.
Where eggs have to go to
a board, deliveries can be co-
ordinated with benefit to both
farm and board. The poultry-
meat can supply a processing-
plant which can require a
certain fixed and regular
quantity to pass on to retailers
and storage-plants, probably
also part of the integration.
A set-up like that operates
efficiently and economically.
Costs skyrocket when expen-
sive plant is working below
capacity, as it usually is when a
big processing-plant, a refrigera-
tion-plant and a feed-mixing
factory are dependent on un-
certain, unpredictable demand
and supply, and each has to
maintain an independent trans-
port-fleet. Under integration
every component member
should be better-off.
Integration will come to
some extent, at any rate. It’s
probably operating now. It can
benefit the little man or put
him into the position of a
wage-earner instead of pro-
prietor of his own business.
To ensure that he will gain by
it when it comes he should
begin now to attain maximum
efficiency in his own particular
line, and do what he can to pro-
mote harmony in his industry.
Agriculture will have to be
as organised and as efficient
in its own way as business is,
if it’s to share equitably in the
partnership.
"Farming Today"
Just celebrated its fifth anni-
versary, the radio-programme
“Farming Today” is spon-
sored by Waugh and Joseph-
son Pty., Ltd., on 13 N.S.W.
radio-stations. Compere is
Norman Blackler; subjects
range from faults in wool to
legal questions in farming;
and guest-speakers have in-
cluded J. N. Boulware (Agri-
cultural Attache of the U.S.
Embassy) Sir Edward Hall-
strom, J. McKellar-White
(secretary, Taxpayers’ Associ-
ation of N.S.W.), C. Walkden-
Brown (special seed-officer,
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture) and many other
distinguished veterinarians,
businessmen and economists.
The programme aims at pro-
ducing balanced views, with
necessary qualifications, rather
than brief summaries of what
represents a jlifetime’s work
for farmers.
Soil Conservation
“Myall”: Queensland has
over three-million acres of land
under cultivation for crops and
an estimated one-third of this
area needs early treatment for
interception and disposal of
surplus run-off water.
Recent heavy rains have
caused serious damage in many
districts, and farmers are begin-
ning to recognise that steps
must be taken to halt erosion
and prevent loss of topsoil.
Agricultural Department
officers advise five simple pre-
cautions for reducing erosion
during heavy rainfall.
Most important is to get a
maximum penetration of rain
through the soil-surface by not
burning crop-residues, which
should be kept on the sur-
face to protect the soil. On the
Darling Downs where there's
a lot of stubble-burning, as
much as 30 per cent, of top-
soil has been lost on some pro-
perties. After a year of drought
many growers decided to
“double-crop” to recoup their
losses and burnt the stubble so
that the ground could be tilled
and a summer-crop sown
immediately. The stubble of
this crop was burnt in the
autumn, and the land prepared
for another winter grain-crop.
Heavy rains fell on the fallowed
ground with disastrous results.
The stiff black soil caked and
prevented absorption of mois-
ture, and the resultant run-
off washed much of the sub-
soil down rivers and creeks.
Many growers have learned a
lesson and are adopting con-
servation-measures.
The second step is to ensure
that water can penetrate rapidly
into the soil-mass, by increasing
organic matter, avoiding
excessive' working and using
crop-rotations that build-up the
soil crumbs. Cultivation with
tined implements helps to avoid
dusty fallows susceptible to
erosion, and rougher fallow will
reduce the danger.
Thirdly, pond temporarily as
much rain as possible where it
falls. Contour-cultivation will
do this, each tine-mark and
crop-row serving as a tiny dam.
Here’s where the fourth
principle comes in. Water from
contour-banks will cut gullies
through cultivations unless a
stable method of disposal is
used. A properly shaped water-
way, covered with grass, will
solve this problem. Experi-
ments on the Darling Downs
show that a bitumen emulsion
sprayed on kikuyu-grass will
prevent erosion. The grass
roots are planted in the water-
ways during winter, and a pro-
tective film of the bitumen is
sprayed on the surface. This
keeps the soil warm and, pro-
tecting the grass from weather,
induces quick growth. By late
spring a heavy stand of grass
protects the gullies from eros-
ion.
Lastly, trap as much run-
off water as possible in dams
close to the waterways, and use
this water for irrigation, mak-
ing the farm more secure.
During recent heavy rains
in districts where erosion was
severe, well-kept contour-struc-
tures stood the strain well, but
where there had not been
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin 1 * will send one
on its way.


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
... Right in the
Business Centre
You’ll find the utmost in comfort
and convenience at The Hotel
Metropole. Conveniently situated
right in the heart of Sydney’s “West
End,” the Hotel Metropole is handy
to transport, offices and Sydney’s
smartest shops and theatres. Enjoy
superb, relaxed comfort at the Hotel
Metropole on your next trip to
Sydney. Over 400 rooms, 95 with
private bathroom; luxurious ultra-
modern suites; friendly, efficient
room-service, day and night; superb
cellar and cuisine; magnificently
appointed dining room and 5
banquet rooms —yes, the Hotel
Metropole is truly THE place to
stay in Sydney!
Write today for colour folder.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
adequate maintenance, wash-
aways were frequent. It’s no
good taking constructive
measures, unless the earth-
works are kept in first-class
order.
The rotation of crops grown
on contour-alternating strips
can materially reduce erosion.
Greatest benefit is shown if
additional strips of a perennial
crop such as lucerne or pasture
are included. A strip-cropping
project on a property near
Jondaryan, over a period of
two years, has shown good
results. To be completely
successful, strip-cropping pro-
jects should be associated with
planned systems for intercep-
tion and disposal of run-off
water.
Over 2200 farmers are apply-
ing anti-erosion methods on
their properties, and, during
the past year, more than 500
built protective earthworks on
about 16,500 acres, bringing
the total area protected to more
than 120,000 acres. Base-plans
have been prepared for a
further 1,140,000 acres.
In April 1959, watershed-
planning committees were
formed by Agricultural Depart-
ment officers to decide upon
water-disposal systems, which
would lead large volumes of
water harmlessly across farms,
roads and railways. Such a
project needs sound planning,
and involves soil-conservation
schemes for whole catchments,
rather than for individual
farms. By the end of October,
more than 30 group conserva-
tion-schemes, involving 160,000
acres, were constructed or being
planned.
In the Central Highlands,
where most areas have been
under cultivation for only a
few years, the risk of soil-
erosion is so evident that a soil-
conservation officer has been
appointed to the district to
advise settlers on the problem.
Many farmers have delayed
cultivation until he has in-
spected their properties and
devised a conservation-scheme.
The Agricultural Depart-
ment’s soil - conservation
officers will visit any farmer’s
property on application and
assess the erosion-problem.
They will then work-out the
method of conservation best
suited to the property and to
the surrounding catchment-
area.
New Fruit-varieties
“Primus”: After 14 years’
Work a Pozieres orchardist, in
Queensland’s Granite Belt, has
developed a new variety of
apple and four new peaches.
These are now in quarantine
in the U.S.A. and, when they
are freed, one of the largest
nurseries there intends to buy
and patent them under
American plant-patent laws.
An official of the Australian
Apple and Pear Board has
stated that all five varieties will
be of value to the fruit-
industry.
The new apple is said to
be the greatest discovery since
the Granny Smith was intro-
duced many years ago. An
early red variety, it ripens as
well as some soft-red apples and
at the same time is firm and
keeps like the Granny Smith.
It will be important for early
exporting and long shipping
and, because it is resistant to
drought and wet weather, seems
ideal for conditions in the
Granite Belt.
Westralian
Swampland
“Pieter Nuyts”: Newcomers
to W.A., and even some of the
locals, can be misled by the
seeming richness of the swamps
in parts of the coastal plain
near Perth. Some of these
swamps have deep, black peaty
soil which can be worked indefi-
nitely without losing its struc-
ture. This soil returns good
crops year after year, and a
few acres of it provide a
family with a good living. But
there are other swamps which
look just as rich and as black
and which, 12 months after
draining, become pure white
hungry sand.
The difference lies mostly in
the ages of the swamps. Some
are thousands of years old,
and the accumulation of humus
in them is correspondingly
deep. Before white settlement,
others were merely a small
patch of rushes in a depression,
and they owe their present size
to increased run-off following
clearing and the presence of a
layer of coffee-rock a few feet
below the surface.
These new swamps have
existed just long enough to
acquire a shallow layer of rich
black mud —enough, say, to
sustain one summer-crop. The
next ploughing bites into the
white sand, and the swamp
is finished as a garden.
Anyone buying a swamp with
the idea of market-gardening
should dig down through the
peat. If it isn’t several feet
deep, give it away.
New Wheat
“Wimra”: A new variety, a
Eureka-Gurkha cross, was
much noticed last December
at a field-day on E. L. Dahlen-
burg’s Salisbury (Vic.) farm.
This wheat (it’s not yet named)
has large, dark, hard grain of
better quality than Quadrat.
It is very similar, as far as
maturing and yielding go, to
Quadrat, which has proved
particularly suitable for con-
ditions in the surrounding
Nhill district. The higher-
yielding Olympic and Pinnacle
do not do so well there.
The new variety gives a
higher yield than any except
Olympic and Pinnacle, and is
also rust-resistant, so it will
probably be much in demand
among Nlffil and Mallee
farmers when released for next
year’s sowing.
Crosscuts
“Erang”: A Bangerang (Vic.)
farmer claims to have evolved
a barrel-clover-trefoil hybrid
which almost equals barrel-
clover in building up soil-
fertility. This hybrid, which
can be propagated by seed,
should be worth investigating
for low-rainfall areas.
“M’Lou”: At Natimuk
(Vic.) the Sudholz brothers
have just harvested a
paddock which lay under
water after last Easter’s rain
and was sown with wheat as
late as August 21. In spite of
the dry season they took-off
253 bags (almost 19 bags an
acre).
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(4/2/’60)
Most of Queensland should have good rains during
March, with heaviest falls on the coastal districts and the
Peninsula, and around the Gulf. Flooding is likely in parts
of the State, although rainfall may be light in the far-south-
western districts. Rainfall looks like being poor in April,
though there should be good rains in eastern Queensland
during May and June.
Rainfall may be patchy in N.S.W. during March,
although moderate rains are likely on the coastal districts
and on the Tablelands and on the north-west slopes and
plains. Heavy rain and flooding should occur on the North
Coast. Rainfall may be light elsewhere. Conditions are
likely to be dry during April, although heavy rains and
serious flooding are probable during May.
Most of Victoria may have only light rain during
March, apart from moderate falls in . the east-central and
north-eastern districts and in Gippsland. Similar rains are
likely in April, with good seasonal rains following in May.
South Australia is likely to have poor rainfall during
March, although moderate rain should occur in the agricul-
tural areas during April, with good seasonal rains in May.
Good general rains are indicated in most of Western
Australia during March, with heaviest falls on the north-
west coast, possibly associated with a cyclonic depression
at the end of February.
LENNOX WALKER.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of “Illustrated
London News” for November 24,
1956.-6936.
Lionel Lindsay’s Addled Art. —
6937.
To buy copy of The Diplomat,
by James Aldridge. —6938.
Information Supplied
(From F. B. Adrian): Further to
“Holster’s” information (B. 3/2/’6U>,
a book published recently in Roma
(Q.), entitled Roma and District,
1846-1885, compiled by the late
Robert Bain Taylor, has this to
say:
The bushranger James Alpine Mc-
Pherson, known as “The Wild Scotch-
man,” visited the Roma district for
some weeks during 1866. In late
January of that year he held-up the
Maranoa mailman and rifled the mails
three miles west of Mount Abundance
homestead. Upon news of this being
received, police-officers and a force of
native police went out from Roma and
followed tracks which led them from
the spot where the mails were robbed,
out towards the Grafton Range, but they
found that McPherson had purposely
doubled back on his tracks and, where
possible, had used ground where tracking
was difficult. Although at one point
the police were so close to McPherson
that the latter had left the meal he was
consuming (the tea was still hot when
the police got there) McPherson eluded
them and avoided capture. The lack of
success on the part of the police led
to some caustic remarks from local
inhabitants.
(From F. T. Askins): Re inquirer
6918 (B. 30 /12 / ’59) who wanted to
know something of Paddy Cahill:
I joined the N.T. Service in 1911,
just before the State-Commonwealth
transfer, and was a permanent
officer in the Commonwealth Sub-
Treasury, Darwin. I knew Paddy
Cahill and his wife quite well, but
nothing of his history. At that
time he owned Oenpelli Station.
Shortly after Dr. Gilruth arrived
as Administrator, Oenpelli was
taken-over by the Commonwealth
Government as a native mission-
station, and Paddy was made a
Protector of Aborigines. He con-
trolled the station until about 1918.
On my transfer south, I lost touch
with him. But he was closely asso-
ciated with Father Gsell, who looked
after the Bathurst Island Mission
and the Roman Catholic Church at
Darwin. Father Gsell is, I think,
still alive and living somewhere in
N.S.W. He was a methodical man;
doubtless there would still be
records of Paddy in the R.C.
Church at Darwin. I guess contact
there would answer the question.
Information Sought
(1) What causes Sydney's north-
easterlies ? (2) What effect does
this wind have on the seabreeze ?
(From B. W. Newman, Deputy-
director, Meteorological Bureau,
Sydney): (1) Sydney’s north-easter
is primarily due to the different
degrees of heating experienced by
the adjacent land under the influence
of the sun’s heating during the day,
when the surface-temperature of the
land rises very much above that
of the neighboring sea. Conse-
quently the air over the land is
warmed by convection to a greater
extent than that over the sea; it
rises, causing the cooler air to flow
in from the sea, this being known
as a seabreeze.
The situation is reversed at night.
Radiation-cooling causes the land-
surface to become cooler than the
adjacent sea-surface, and a land-
breeze sets in. Because of the con-
trasts of land- and sea-temperatures,
these breezes are most marked in
tropical regions, where the solar-
heating is greatest. So on the
coast near Sydney the effect is
greatest in the hotter months when
“Those bums in Washington are nuts! Leave the moon
to the Commies —we oughter be shootin' for the sun!"
the north-easterly seabreeze is regu-
lar and at its strongest. In this
sense it is seasonal. But, under
favorable conditions, the tendency is
still present in the winter months,
although it is often masked by the
prevailing westerly winds. These
winds are frequently slowed-down
in the afternoons by the opposing
seabreeze effect.
(2) The seabreeze is generally
confined to a narrow strip, usually
10 miles to 15 miles on either side
of the coastline. In Sydney the
limits of the north-easter depend on
the synoptic situation or the posi-
tion and movement of the various
pressure-systems and the arrange-
ment of the isobars, which govern
the speed and direction of the
gradient wind. When this wind
opposes the seabreeze effect, the
north-easter may not reach the
inland suburbs or may even be
completely overcome, depending on
the strength oL the gradient wind.
This occasionally happens in the
summer —when a hot northerly or
north - westerly circulation over
N.S.W. is strong enough—causing
tempera hires in the vicinity of
llOdeg. in Sydney and on the coast-
line. On the other hand, when
the gradient wind is from the north-
east the seabreeze reinforces it in
the afternoons and extends well
inland
• • • •
Biographical details of Christian
Fletcher, leader of the mutineers on
H.M.S. Baunty ?
Fletcher was b'orn on the Isle
of Man in 1763; he came of a
Cumberland family, his father being
Charles Christian of Mairlandclere
in Cumberland. Qualifying as a
midshipman, he entered the Navy,
and, when William Bligh sailed in
the Bounty, Christian went on the
ship as master’s mate; later his
commander appointed him acting-
lieutenant. On April 28, 1789,
Christian and a number of fellow-
conspirators arrested Bligh and put
him and most of the members of
the crew who were not in the plot
in open boats and set them adrift.
Christian took command of the
ship and sailed for Tubuai' —one of
the Austral Islands—and later to
Otaheite, now known as Tahiti.
Finally he landed on Pitcairn Island
and burnt the ship. He was
murdered on the island in 1792.
* * * *
Could I have fuller details of the
Commonwealth Literary Fund ( B.
3 /2 1’60) ?
Commonwealth Literary Fund
fellowships are awarded to help
persons who have proved their
capacity to do creative work in the
field of literature, but who are
prevented from exercising their
abilities because of financial circum-
stances. The fund does not seek-
out people on whom to bestow
fellowships, but considers only
those who submit applications. The
committee of the fund may grant
a sum up-to but not exceeding
£lOOO a year for each fellowship.
Payments are made monthly in
advance, except that the final pay-
ment will be made only after the
submission to the secretary of the
fund of the completed manuscript.
The fund also assists in the publica-
tion of manuscripts which have out-
standing literary merit but which
would not be commercially attrac-
tive propositions. This assistance
usually takes the form of a guaran-
tee of assistance to the publisher.
The fund does not itself enter the
field of the publisher. The fund's
primary purpose is to foster creative
or imaginative literature. Under
this heading the fund also includes
biography* history and literary
criticism, provided the work, in the
opinion of the Advisory Board, is
of literary quality. There are many
historical, biographical and critical
works which have research or his-
toric significance but would not be
of liter-ary value. These would not
receive literary-fund support.
As well, the fund makes avail-
able to each State university and
the University of New England £lOO
a year for a course of five lectures
in Australian literature, preferably
as an integral part of an English
course. £5O is made available to
the Canberra University College and
the Newcastle University College.
In 1956 the fund decided to make
finance available to permit expansion
of the lectures in Australian litera-
ture to include lectures not only
to the universities but also to the
general public in both city and
country areas. With the co-opera-
tion of the Adult Education authori-
ties, major State-wide tours have
taken place in Tasmania, Queens-
Tand, W.A. and S.A. This year the
scheme will be extended to Victoria,
and in 1961 to N.S.W.
Pensions are granted to writers
who have gained a nation-wide repu-
tation for their work in the field
of creative literature. In the past,
when benefits from the Govern-
ment’s social-servjces were restricted,
the fund granted pensions to families
of literary men who died poor, but
the fund’s present intention is that
the award of a pension should be
a gesture of appreciation towards
a writer who has contributed sub-
stantially to the nation’s literature.
Brief Answers
G.G.: The use of birdlime is
prohibited jn N.S.W. Contact C.
Roff, Fauna Protector, Department
of Agriculture and Stock, Brisbane,
as to the position in Queensland.
P.H.T.: It would depend to a
large extent on the nature of the
libel. There is no law to prevent
a person writing about another
person, provided the person written
about is not able to convince a
jury that the matter referring to him
can be • construed as defamatory.
It would be wisest to consult a
solicitor before taking any steps.
. ...S.E.: The article appeared in
B. 29/4/’59. If you send Is. sd.
to cover cost and postage, a copy
of this issue will be posted to you.
. ...T.H.: Write to the editor,
“Canon,” 27 Woolwich Road,
Hunter’s Hill, Sydney, N.S.W
R.W.: Loss of weight in pigs is
often due to worms. To prevent
spread of infection, spray the yards
with a solution of lib. bluestone to
lgal. water. Drench the pig with
lc.c. of oil-of-chenopodium for
every 251 b. liveweight in 2oz. of
castor-oil. Starve the pig for 12
hours before administering.


T HE HOLLIDAYS
"Say, you WERE right, Holliday — it's NOT for sale!"
New Recordings
Arias
Opera-lovers should find
much to interest them in
Coronet’s Arias in the Great
Tradition (KLC 2697), sung by
Eileen Farrell with orchestra
conducted by Max Rudolf.
Studying the jacket, one’s
only criticism is that, of the six
arias, two are by Beethoven and
two by Weber. Surely it would
have been more interesting to
have six more-or-less chrono-
logical excerpts from the gem-
studded treasury of operatic
music?
Listening to Miss Farrell,
even an exceedingly raw opera-
listener must admire the way
she handles a certain style of
music: the bold, the colorful,
the dramatic. This is a major
compensating factor in the
choice of material. Never-
theless, the second side, with
the two Weber pieces, a slab of
Cherubini and a slice of Gluck,
seems to hold the bulk of the
disk’s appeal.
Before you investigate the
second side there is Beet-
hoven’s extended concert-aria
“Ah, Perfido!” an inde-
pendent scene and aria, written
in the 1790’5. Opening with
the thrilling accentuation of the
Word “Perfido!” it moves to a
heated denunciation of the
girl’s lover —a recitative pattern
subtly underlined by supporting
chords. The mood changes in
the aria proper, and the girl gets
a tender melody so she can
plead with her lover to return.
In the next piece, “Abscheu-
licher, wo eilst du hin?”, from
“Fidelio,” a similar urgency
marks the opening declama-
tion : it is fireworks music, and
rather more bristling with
malice than Handel
“Monster! Where are you
going? What wild plans are
forming in your tiger’s brain?”
It is the broad sameness of
these two pieces that tends to
restrict this first side to the
opera expert. Except for a
certain instrumental roughness
halfway through the second
aria, both are capably per-
formed, and Miss Farrell
manages the many vocal
switches confidently. Her top
notes are resonant and strong,
yet elastically approached ; one
has the feeling that her most
telling field is not so much in
the mid-section sonorities of
“Perfido” as in the sheer vigor
of the “Abscheulicher” open-
ing.
In Weber’s fine “Leise, Leise”
(from “Der Freischutz”) Miss
Farrell gets some drama into
the early sustained note: such
an effect is comparable only to
a perfectly controlled forte by
the string-section of an
orchestra. And it is a pleasure
to hear that difficult fluttery
section so crisply put over.
The “Cavatina,” from the
same opera, is a song of faith —
a purely constructed melody,
with an orchestral accompani-
ment lyrically underscoring the
words: “Clouds may obscure
the heavens, but the sun
remains in its glory. The eyes
of heaven never sleep”. . .
Such a piece as Cherubini’s
“Solo un pianto,” from
“Medea,” is a sombre yet
stylistically different bedfellow
to the Gluck aria “Grands
Dieux! ” (from “Alceste”). This
Gluck piece is especially inter-
esting, not only in its rich vocal
line but from a historical view-
point as well. For the
“Preface” to this opera revolu-
tionised the style of subsequent
opera-composers, and Gluck’s
statements enormously influ-
enced Wagner. Among his
recommendations is the follow-
ing: “Music shall at all times
be subservient to the cardinal
interest of the drama.” Yet —
as this aria shows —Gluck was
somehow able to match his
music with the drama. Maybe
this impression springs to
mind because Miss Farrell sings
this and the other arias so
well.
A. W.
❖ ❖ ❖
Romberg
In the musical - comedy
theatre in the years between
World War I and the depres-
sion of the 1930’s few com-
posers approached the success
of Sigmund Romberg. Writing
in America in the tradition of
old Vienna he struck a happy
balance of his romantic senti-
ment and lilting melody that
was just what his audiences
wanted. And not just the audi-
ences of the 1920’5. In film-
versions and in revivals the
best of his operettas had
several lives.
Most musical shows leave
at least one song behind them.
Romberg’s musicals usually
left a handful. Coronet has
collected a bunch of the most
popular of these under the
title A Night With Sigmund.
Romberg (KLL 1606).
Singing with the orchestra of
Percy Faith, baritone Earl
Wrightson opens the programme
with two pieces best known
through the films and records of
Nelson Eddy (now apparently
staging a TV comeback in
America). These are “The
Desert Song” and the lusty
“Stout Hearted Men” from the
costume operetta New Moon.
He teams with soprano Lois
Hunt in two Student Prince
duets —“Deep in My Heart”
and “Serenade”; in “Song of
Love,” from Blossom Time,
and “Will You Remember?”,
the haunting duet that made
May time a success in 1917.
Lois Hunt, who has sung
with the Metropolitan Opera
Co., contributes on her own
account two New Moon
numbers —“One Kiss” and
“Lover Come Back to Me” —-
and Wrightson brings back the
yesteryears with “Golden
Days,” “The Riff Song” and
“One Alone,” rounding-off the
disk with “When I Grow Too
Old to Dream,” the song Rom-
berg wrote for a Ramon
Novarro film in the early days
of talkies.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
At a very pleasant luncheon hosted
by Mr. Angus Jones at Menzies’ Hotel
plans were revealed for the 12th Inter-
national Congress of Scientific Manage-
ment, to be held from February 22 to
March 4 —Mr. Jones is president of the
Melbourne division of the Institute of
Management. Chairman of the women’s
committee Lady Storey, and deputy-
chairman Mrs. Angus Jones, were at the
luncheon. This women’s committee of
24 members has been working for weeks
on a programme which not only pro-
vides entertainment for women visitors
to the congress but makes appointments
with hairdressers and books seats for
“My Fair Lady,” etc. Mrs. Jones, well
known for her lovely flower-arrange-
ments, will arrange bowls of flowers to
place in hotel-bedrooms.
Functions arranged include a parade
of Australian fashions at George’s, of
Collins Street. Lady Coles will enter-
tain the visitors one morning at her home.
On Monday, February 29, there’ll be a
women’s session in Wilson Hall, the
speakers being Dr. Lillian Gilbreth (well
known as the heroine of the book
Cheaper by the Dozen), and Dame Enid
Lyons, who will fly from Tasmania for
the occasion. Other women coming for
the congress include Miss Anne Gillespie
Shaw, of Cheshire, England (she is one
of the few women in the British Com-
monwealth who advises men on how to
manage their businesses); Dr. Beatrice
A. Hicks, of the U.S.; Mrs. Anna K.
Zwerin, president of the Capitol Steel
Corporation, New York; and Mrs.
Dolores Dove, wife of a New York pro-
fessor and head of her own translation
service.
V- #
St. John’s Church, Toorak, was the
setting for the marriage of Chrisanne
Isobel, eldest daughter of Captain Charles
Burge (R.N., retired) and Mrs. Burge,
of Brighton Beach. For her wedding the
bride wore a lovely gown of white
Brussels - lace mounted on cream satin,
the long-sleeved bodice extending over
the hips to join the full skirt, with the
fullness of the back extending into a
train. Her full-length tulle veil was
caught with a coronet of mother-of-pearl
and she carried a bouquet of white roses,
tuberoses and stephanotis. Small brother
Charles was page-boy and sister Marilyn
bridesmaid, her short bouffant frock of
cyclamen-pink silk-organza featuring a
wide band of white guipure-lace set
around the skirt just below the hips.
Bridegroom Peter Fredericks, second son
of the late Mr. and Mrs. J. Fredericks,
formerly of Holland, had Rudy Ecke as
best man. After the ceremony Captain
and Mrs. Burge, she wearing a long gown
of cinnamon-brown silk-organza and a
toque of pastel-pink tulle, entertained
relatives and friends at a reception in
their home.
From Melbourne C. of E. Girl’s
Grammar School, Marion Gengoult
Smith went on to the University, where
at the end of last year she got her B.A.
degree, majoring in psychology. Marion,
who is the only daughter of Cr. Sir
Harold Gengoult Smith and Lady
Gengoult Smith, will on April 19 marry
Rodney Davidson at St. Paul’s Cathe-
dral, where both her grandmother, Dame
Mabel Brookes, and her mother were
married. Rodney, a barrister, is the only
son of Mrs. C. Davidson, of Toorak, and
the late Mr. Charles Davidson. Marion,
who is travelling abroad with her parents,
will bring home her wedding-gown which
Teddy Tinting designed and made,
incorporating the family wedding-veil
into the bridal-ensemble. Tinling also
designed the bridesmaids’ frocks, but
these will be made in this city.
The prize for stoical fortitude when
the city sweltered in a 90 deg. tempera-
ture with humidity not far below it must
surely have gone to the mannequins who
paraded in fur toques and heavy tweed-
coats and suits at the Toorak home of
Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh in aid of the Queen
Victoria Hospital, whose president, Dame
Mabel Brookes, was present. Others
noted at the parade were Lady Baillieu,
who wore with a silk jacket-suit of white
blocked in grey, black and red a large
black straw sailor-hat with a red
faille crown ; Mrs. Sidney Baillieu Myer,
her choice a silk frock printed in corn-
flower-blue on white, and a high-crowned
cloche of gold straw; Mrs. Reg Baillieu,!
wearing a pastel .-pink linen frock and'
jacket and tiered hat of white organza ;
Mrs. D. J. S. Mackinnon, in a rose-pink
self-patterned silk surah and a matching
stitched hat; the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Bernard Evans; Lady Teasdale; Mrs.
Bert Hotchkiss ; Mrs. Bill Cook ; Mrs.
A. G. Silk ; Mrs. John Rodd ; Mrs. R. i
A. Staughton and her daughter-in-law,
Mrs. Bob Staughton ; Mrs. Walter Cass;
and Mrs. H. I. Fader. Helpers for the
afternoon were Mrs. Ross Grey Smith,
Mrs. Eric Avery, Mrs. lan Miller, Mrs.
John Foster and Mrs. Carlisle Taylor.
☆ ☆ ☆
In appreciation of the support they
have been given throughout the long run
of “My Fair Lady,” the entire com-
pany will hold a Covent Garden Fair
Lady Fair at the Town Hall on February
26 —proceeds to the Royal Women’s Hos-
pital. There’ll be the usual stalls, dairy-
produce, fruit, flowers and cakes and
also a cake competition judged by TV
personality Jean Bowring. The Firm
has donated the lavish evenin,g-gown
worn by Evie Hayes in “Call Me
Madam” and the short, pink-chiffon
gown Googie Withers wore in “Roar
Like a Dove.” These will be sold to
the highest bidder on the day of the
fair. A white-and-silver gown worn by
Googie Withers in “Simon and Laura”
will also be sold. Robin Bailey and his
wife will conduct an art stall and will sell
some of the paintings done by Robin.
A number of ashtrays have been
donated, and Robin and Bunty Turner
will autograph these as they are sold.
Lady Tait, wife of the managing-
director of J.C.W. (Sir Frank Tait), who
is a member of the Royal Women’s
Hospital committee, is helping with the
planning for the fair.
☆ ☆ ☆
English pianist Moura Lympany, who
was soloist with the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra at the first Town Hall concert
in the Beethoven Festival, wore a gown
designed by Nina Ricci. Of pure-silk-
taffeta, with a white background printed
in a shadow-design of large red roses, its
fitted bodice had a deep, square neckline,
and folds of the material formed wide
shoulder-straps. The billowing skirt,
which fell gracefully, had the fullness
coming from the centre, back and front
and sweeping to both sides. Miss Lym-
pany’s only ornaments were pearl stud-
earrings and a two-strand pearl-necklace.
In the audience were Mrs. Massey
Burnside, Mrs. Karl Rankl (whose hus-
band conducted the orchestra), Mr. and
Mrs. Ewart Chappie, Mrs. Guy Bakewell,
Dr. and Mrs. Bowen Allen, Mrs. John
Casson and her son Anthony and
daughter Jane, actress Joy Mitchell,
Denise Ryan, Betty Irvine, Mrs. B. Gil-
ruth, Mrs. M. Fearon, Mrs. E. Mc-
Donald and Adrien G. Wall (he leaves
early next month for a 12-months’ trip
overseas).


SYDNEY
Just now it’s as if the season were
slowly awakening, sleepily rubbing it
eyes, stretching its arms and making
drowsy attempt or two to get the socia
round going.
As is usual in February, the weather
too, is lethargic, and it will need the
cool change that comes as a rule abou
the middle of March to wake us up
fully like the shock of a cold shower
Then we will truly step forth, vigorous
and alert, ready for the busy round o:
activities that come with Easter.
Meanwhile we chatter about the
Queen’s baby and comment on the change
of the Royal Family’s name to Mount-
batten-Windsor. The criticism that has
accompanied this seems pointless. A 1
fathers have the right to pass on their
family name to their offspring. It is
one of the privileges accorded to them
in order, doubtless, to make them more
reconciled to the idea of matrimony.
Reform in men’s dress has also been
a subject of discussion. The policemen
appeared on point-duty coatless last week
and much cooler they looked. The
uniform had to be designed very carefully,
it is said, because it’s against the feeling
of the Australian people that their police
should display the fact that they are
carrying a weapon.
At the same time the Lord Mayor
gave a lead in dress-reform by coming
to the Town Hall in shorts, thus prac-
tising what he preached. It was amusing
to hear the male critics exclaiming:
“Ah, but what will he do when our
changeable weather turns cold!” What
do the girls do? Just slip-on a cardigan.
It’s as simple as that.
Chatter has also included such subjects
as the establishment of bowling-alleys
in Sydney. The first one is to be opened
shortly at Hurstville, and others are to
follow. They should help to solve the
problem of what to do with picture-
theatres put out of business by TV.
☆ ☆ ☆
February 22 is Thinking Day for Girl
Guides throughout the world. If com-
memorates the birthday of both Lord
Baden-Powell and Lady Baden-Powell
and is devoted not only to thinking of
the needs of others but also to doing
something about them.
For Thinking Day in Sydney this year
the Guides, together with the Good
Neighbor Council, have organised a
Grand International Concert in aid of
the World Refugee Year. It will be held
in the Music Shell at St. Leonard’s Park,
North Sydney, next Monday night at
8 p.m. and will feature a Hungarian
violinist and singer, a Belgian accordion-
player and a Dutch dancing-team, as well
as leading A.B.C. artists. All who want
to help this good cause will welcome this
pleasant opportunity to do so.
☆ ☆ ☆
People were surprised when, five years
ago, a firm of leading dress-manufac-
turers announced that medical-research
had revealed that more than half of
Australian women were under sft. 4in.
Now the firm, Adelyn Dresses, say that
figures (statistical as well as physical)
show that we Australian women are
getting shorter. They think the influx
of migrants has something to do with it.
At any rate, their special model and
fashion-compere, Miss Libby Mendle-
sohn, is sft. 4in. in her high-heels and
a very attractive example of the average
Australian woman.
Taking wing for distant lands on
Friday week is Mrs. George Foster, of
Strathfield and Palm Beach, who will
accompany her husband on a three-
months trip to America and Europe.
Travelling by Pan American Airways,
they will have a three-day stop-over at
Hawaii, then fly on to the U.S. A month
in England will follow, and the third
month will be spent in Switzerland. Their
younger son, Clem, has been given a
term’s leave-of-absence from The King’s
School to accompany them on the tour.
Photo by Howard Harris.
Things learned at a committee-meeting:
Concertinas are gayer than violins, and
pate more gala than seafood-cocktail.
At any rate, there will be the gay
and the gala both at the Peter Pan Ball
set for Prince’s on April 8. Always a
very smart affair and popular with those
who flock into Sydney for the Easter
festivities. It is in aid of the Peter Pan
Kindergarten, of course.
Closer in time, and also in aid of the
Peter Pan Kindergarten, is the very-
much-looked-for sale at the Opportunity
Shop in Rowe Street. March 7 is the
date, and everything will be half-price.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the advantages that Chatterton’s
Art Gallery has over many others is that
you can sit down in comfort while, or
after, viewing the paintings. (It may be
an admission of age to say this, but it
is also an expression of thanks.) An
interesting selection from the Bissietta
collection was opened there during th
week by Mr. Erik Langker, and thos
present included artists Weaver Hawkins
Ken Stirton and young Penny St. Vinceni
Welsh.
Mrs. Barbara Bennett, also at thi
gathering, mentioned an interesting auc
tion of original paintings which is to tak
place at the Marinella Restaurant, Avalon
Parade, on Sunday morning, February 28
Max Lawson will be the auctioneer, anc
the proceeds are in aid of the Opera
House Appeal.
☆ ☆ ☆
Certainly the surprise engagement o:
the week was that of film-star Anne Bax
ter to tall, handsome grazier Randolph
Galt, of Giro (Gloucester), Bellevue Hil
(Sydney) and Esperance (W.A.) —three
quite widely-spaced addresses, but pre
senting no difficulty to one who owns hi
own Cessna aircraft. “Ranny” is an
American born in Honolulu, but he ha
been farming in Australia for some years
and he and Miss Baxter will make their
home here (at Giro) when they are
married. It will be remembered that the
film-star said, when she left Australia las
November, that she would like to come
back. “And that’s a promise,” she added
* ☆ ☆
Sydney’s distinguished daughter, singer
Joan Hammond, arrived during the
week. She will sing “Salome” and
“Madame Butterfly” during the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust’s 1960 opera
season, opening at the Adelaide Festival
on March 17. She’ll do the Dance of
the Seven Veils herself, instead of having
a ballet-dancer substitute, as is usual in
the opera. She has been training for
three years for the role, she says, taking
dancing lessons and slimming.
☆ ☆ ☆
Among the opening committee-meet-
ings of the week was that of the “Town
and Country,” which works for the
Smith Family. Mrs. Clinton Ayers
(Clifton Gardens) was elected president
for the 11th year, her v.-p.s being Mrs.
W. Macßae (Vaucluse), Mrs. J. Hemphill
(Point Piper), Mrs. M. Point (Castlecrag)
and Mrs. A. Beeman (Roseville). First
function planned is a cooking demonstra-
tion at the Bistro next Friday at 10 a.m.
☆ ☆ ☆
Miss Peggy van Praagh, who this week
signed a contract with J. C. Williamson
to direct the Borovansky Ballet, will be
advisory-director for six months and, as
she says, “if all goes well, we will extend
the term longer.” The daughter of a
London doctor, she has been studying
dancing since childhood, and was one of
the leading soloists in the Ballet Rambert,
a member of Ninette de Valois’s Sadler’s
Wells Theatre Ballet, and later ballet-
mistress to Mme. de Valois’s second
company. She has worked as a producer
in Germany, Scandinavia, Canada and the
U.S., and is a leading figure in world
ballet. She leaves for Australia on
March 22 and will go straight to Brisbane
to join the Borovansky Ballet there.


the bush by an old Malay and two
little naked boys and after they had
realised that they were on the course
of seaplanes flying to a base on one
of the islands and that they must pass
an observation-post, the searchlights
from which they had seen in the night,
they sailed on by daylight, under the
seaplanes and past the observation-
post, “zigzagging all day long from
one deserted-looking spot to another,
only to find that we are approaching a
worse one;” until, at nightfall, they
saw the lights of Singapore. The
Japanese, though navigation lights in
the harbor were extinguished, did not
have the city blacked-out.
They hoped to make their base on
Pandjang Island, 30 miles from Singa-
pore; and there at last the raiding-
party did go ashore with their gear
and their canoes. But it was decided,
even though it meant a longer paddle
of 50 miles in the canoes, that
Pompong was after all safer for the
rendezvous: and there, all going well,
they would meet in 12 days. If some
of the canoes had failed to make the
rendezvous by then, the Krait would
make a final call two days later.
Next, after the Krait had swung
away to hide itself for a fortnight as
,best it could in those dangerous waters,
there was the raid to be done. They
moved camp to Dongas Island, eight
miles from Singapore, so close that by
day they could recognise the indi-
vidual buildings and speculate about
Changi in the heat-haze.
Their first attempt on the shipping
was a failure. They paddled to within
two miles of the Singapore Roads, got
safely through a searchlight which
picked them out on' the water, but then
at 1 a.m. were beaten by the adverse
currents and had to return to Dongas.
Lyons and Huston got lost on the way
home —or at least thought they were,
for they landed on Dongas all right,
but on the wrong beach—and did riot
find the others till the afternoon.
To get a better approach to Singa-
pore they moved that night to Subar
Island, seven miles west; and from
there made their final effort. They
passed through the beam of the search-
light again; Page and Jones, eating
chocolate in their canoe after they had
mined their first ship, timing the
explosion for 5 a.m.. saw a Japanese
sentry straight above them on the
wharf; Lyon and Huston, trying to
attach their limpets to the starboard
side of the engineroom of the big
tanker which they had selected for
their sole victim, watched a seaman
poke his head out of a porthole just
above them; Davidson and Falls, who
were working inside the boom in
Keppel Harbor, were nearly run-down
by a ferry and were delayed some
little time while Davidson, who
believed in doing things in style,
adjusted his monocle; but, despite all
the danger of discovery, they mined in
all seven ships, a total of between
36.843 and 39,111 tons, got safely out
of Singapore again and, in the dawn,
Davidson and Falls among the man-
groves on Batam Island and the others
on Dongas, heard the roll of the
explosions.
Davidson and Falls were first back
to Pompong, after 33 hours of paddling
from Batam. The others, after almost
crashing head-on into an anchored
Japanese patrol-boat and after a
desperate daylight journey in the
canoes in an endeavor to make the
first rendezvous on time, “close now to
a numb sort of terror of missing the
Krait, of being left behind,” landed
on the wrong beach on Pompong and,
next morning, saw their hope of safety
sailing away from them out to sea
again. Major Lyon bought food from
some Malays and for two days, fearing
betrayal all the while, they waited.
Then the Krait came back and,
ignoring a Japanese destroyer, took
them all home to Australia.
It is a pity that McKie has to round-
off this superb story with the epilogue
of the failure of Rimau; it seems a
pity, in fact, that this second raid,
which involved the capture of a junk
and the final use of “submersible
boats,” was ever allowed to take place.
It seems to have been rash in concep-
tion, bungled as to the rendezvous,
and it finally came to disaster when,
fearing discovery near Singapore,
somebody in the captured junk flred
on a Malay patrol-launch. After that
the party of 23 had to flee for their
lives. Some were killed by natives,
some said to have been taken by
sharks, some were shot-down in a
manhunt, and 10 who were captured
were ceremonially executed, with
many compliments on their bravery,
by the Japanese. None survived; and
among the dead were six who had
taken part in the triumphant adventure
of Jay wick —Lyon. Davidson, Page,
Falls, Huston and Marsh.
In the prose-style of his introduction,
in his invented conversations and in
the confused and unnecessary account
of his researches for the Rimau
chapters McKie’s approach to his book
is journalistic; but he has nevertheless
done a fine job of research and organi-
sation in putting the story together
and the central drama of Jay wick is
a magnificent piece of reading. The
book deserves to be read very widely;
and, with its small group of clearly-
defined characters and its swift ana
exciting movement, could make the
basis of an exceptionally interesting
film.
Miles Franklin Award
Closing date for entries for the 1959
Miles Franklin "Award (for the best
Australian novel or play published
during that year) is February 28. The
results will be announced during the
Adelaide Festival in March.
A similar award of £5OO is offered
for 1960: —
.... such prize shall be awarded
for the Novel for the year which is
of the highest literary merit and
which must present Australian Life
in any of its phases and if there
be no Novel worthy of the prize in
the opinion of the said Judges then
such Award may be given as such
Judges may advise to the author of
a play for either stage, radio or
television or such medium as may
develop but not for farce or musical
comedy.
Details from the Permanent Trustee
Co. of N. S. Wales, Ltd.
Tobruk
Anthony Heckstall-Smith’s Tobruk,
the Story of a Siege (Anthony
Blond) has a few minor inaccuracies
in detail and lacks a map of the
Western Desert coastal strip. But it is
a well-written, concise and interesting
account of the North African
Campaign from the beginning of War
II to the capture of Tobruk by Rommel
in June, 1942.
Heckstall - Smith, an English
journalist, author and playwright,
joined the R.N.V.R. in 1939 and was
a member of that gallant band of
sailors who time and again ran the
gauntlet of the “Spud Run” to
maintain the garrison of Tobruk during
the siege. However, the book is not
confined to the naval side, but deals
with all aspects of the campaign,
including strategy and the personal
experiences of Servicemen. To cover
such a wide field in 250 pages, all
padding has been eliminated.
He debunks Rommel’s reputation
for invincibility by laying the right
emphasis on the enormous advantage
gained by an army equipped with a
superior tank and anti-tank gun in
battles fought on terrain such as the
open rolling plains of the so-called
Libyan desert. In the first year after
Rommel arrived in Africa he had
greatly superior tanks and anti-tank
guns and even at El Alamein these
equipments were still superior to ours
in quality, although by that time we
had built up a heavy superiority
in quantity which enabled us to defeat
him.
The author’s opinions and analysis
of leading personalities involved on
both sides, including Churchill,
Cunningham, Longmore, Rommel,
Morshead, Auchinleck and O’Connor,


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
DOCTOR GOEBBELS
His Life and Death
Roger Manvell and Heinrich Fraenkel
The fullest and best documented biography yet written
of the man who has a claim to be considered the most
sinister and portentous figure of this century. 37/3
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
seem fair and objective. He is also
fair in his allotment of praise and
blame and, when dealing with a
disaster, tries to give all the relevant
facts.
The Australian part of the story is
well and excitingly told and at the
same time Heckstall-Smith illustrates
vividly the vital roles played by the
indomitable British A.-A. gunners and
the men of the R.N. and R.A.N.
I. R. Campbell.
Reviewed Briefly
Hook, Line and Spinner: Clive
Gammon (Heinemann). Angling in
England—and if a “monstrous” two-
pound trout will evoke a faint, sad
smile from Australian fishermen, the
and four-pound tench from
Bosherton Lake, photographed for the
frontispiece, are not to be sneezed at.
There are also pike and salmon; and
the book is in a pleasant, easy,
reminiscent style.
* * • *
The Beauty of Horses: A large book
of photographs with an introduction
by Lieut.-Col. C. E. G. Hope (Max
Parrish). There are photographs of
everything from Shetland ponies to
Clydesdales, with many hunting scenes
and a few from the racecourse—a fine
gift-book for any horse-lover.
* * • *
For Love or Money: An anthology
of the Mystery Writers of America, in
which Dorothy Gardiner has used the
theme “Love or Money” to guide her
in her selection of stories by Margery
Allingham, Jerome Barry, Lawrence
G. Blochman, Christianna Brand,
Gladys Cluff, George Harmon Coxe,
Bruno Fischer, Morris Hershman,
Hilda Lawrence, Margaret Manners,
Ellery Queen, Sidney Rowland,
Georges Simenon, C. L. Sweeney, Jr.,
Lawrence Treat and Thomas Walsh.
One of the novelties is Sidney Row-
land’s “The Fixed Fight.” a mystery
involving a Roman gladiator urged by
some big bettors of ancient Rome to
take a dive.
* * * *
“Salient,” a magazine edited by Kurt
Titze and Joy Alston, is a new
quarterly, published at Geelong (Vic.).,
intended to “promote literature
generally, by and through women
specifically.” It is pocket-size, and by
and large the idea behind it is a good
one. The first issue contains two
charming poems from a series by
Judith Wright, a good book-review
section written by John Yule, two
short-stories, a brief “profile” of Irene
Mitchell of Melbourne Little Theatre.
Except for the Wright poems and the
imposing list of well-wishers (Dames
Sitwell and Thorndyke among them), it
is rather a mediocre offering, though
perhaps an exception should also be
made of a peculiar short-story by Birr
Girroc called “Missy.” This is about
Ned Dwyer and his pit-pony, whose
“caresses were the aftermath of a love
of whose existence ’twere not hard to
guess” and who is now buried where
“moss.... grows o’er her grave.”
“Missy’s” inclusion weakens one’s con-
fidence in the editorial judgment.
* • * *
The Birds: Oskar and Katharina
Heinroth (Faber). A pleasant and
scholarly book, printed on glossy paper
and illustrated with photographs and
diagrams, which tells you a lot about
a lot of birds. In Chapter One, titled
“What Is a Bird?” there is a glorious
photo of a “Vasa parrot which did not
get new feathers after moulting”; and
a more forlorn and shivery specimen
of birdhood would be hard to imagine.
Chapter Six poses the question “Can
a Bird Recognise its Own Young?”;
the answer “depends on whether or
not the young leave the nest soon after
hatching.” There is a good chapter on
the cuckoo, complete with a diagram
showing how a young cuckoo throws
its foster-parents’ eggs out of the nest;
and there are plenty of other things to
interest the bird-lover.
• • • *
The Ten Pains of Death: Gavin
Maxwell (Longmans). During a lengthy
stay in north-west Sicily the author
interviewed people from many occu-
pations and social levels, getting from
each a monologue on his or her life,
customs and attitudes. Scrupulously
translated, glossed and bound together
with commentary and background,
these make a thickly textured report
on the way things are in this feudally
Christian and incorrigibly pagan
region where about half the popula-
tion is illiterate and practically desti-
tute, where “eight out of every ten
adult men have served more than a
year in prison” and where crippling
social injustice and operatic melo-
drama are commonplace. Required
reading for any Australian who wants
to understand Sicilian migrants.
* t • *
The Elements of Style: William
Strunk, jnr., and E. B. White (Mac-
millan). Shrunk taught English at
Cornell University (U.S.A.) when
White was a student there (about
1918). He had a passion for vigorous,
concise English prose, and this is the
little handbook he wrote on style for
his classes. When White published a
piece in remembrance and praise of it
in the “New Yorker” in 1957 Mac-
millans arranged to reissue the book.
They got White to revise it, bring its
examples up-to-date, write an introduc-
tion based on his “New Yorker” item
and add an end-chapter on style in
general. It would be difficult to find
a handier compendium of all that is
essential and most helpful in “Fowler”
and others. White’s contributions are
models of clarity, concision and grace;
if the book helped to produce them it
should be good enough for anyone.
* • • •
Such Is Life: Jeanne Perkins Har-
man (Hammond and Hammond).
After reading Miss Perkins’s account
of a woman-journalist’s work on the
American magazine “Life,” one begins
to question whether such a life is
worth living. Women do the research
work in the Time Inc. organisation.
They dredge-up all the information,
tramp round getting the interviews,
check all the details and keep a civil
tongue in their heads. Men do the
writing; and all, both writers and
researchers, seem to live in a frenzied
atmosphere of excitement, insecurity
and involved office-politics. The book
is lively, witty, informative and
alarming.


THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’ ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED ( incorporated in n.s.w. )
The weather at a glance...
from the M.L.C.
Weather Beacon
inn iflvii
iiiifiimi!!
ii i
m*
111
inn
■
5?
11l
1M
111
■Sil
ISIS
ii
II
ii
IS!
ill
I
Hi
1
i
111
li
\\ /
S 3!
ini
K m
sm
IS
§
Sil!
/
SIIISiI
■rwnmri
1111 l
iiilliil
■■■■in
HBMlfllHHllilil
t
TEMPERATURE FORECAST
When the lights are:
Rising Becoming warmer
Falling Becoming cooler
Steady No change
WEATHER FORECAST
WHITE:
Steady Fine
Two Sec. Flashes Clearing
Half Sec. Flashes Windy
RED:
Steady Rain
Two Sec. Flashes Change developing
Half Sec. Flashes, Strong winds and rain
The forecasts come from the Weather Bureau
by remote control. .The signals are for short-
range forecasts and are adjusted at 6 a.m.,
noon, 4.30 p.m., 10 p.m. and when a change
is imminent. Keep an M.L.C. Weather Beacon
Signal Guide handy. Write or telephone for
the pocket-sized card.
THE M.L.C.
