

The Bulletin
What Asians Think of Us —page 25
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
December 28, 1960
Price 1/-
INSIDE A
MIGRANT
CAMP
PAGCII
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


The Red Page
THE AUSTRALIAN UGLINESS
The Australian Ugliness. By Robin
Boyd. Cheshire, 355.
Robin Boyd’s arresting title may lead
some people to think that this will be a
knocking book. It is not. for it is
written by someone thoroughly in-
volved with Australia, with its suc-
cesses as well as its failures, with its
possibilities as well as its awful messes.
But Boyd puts the boot in where
necessary, with the expert precision of
an anatomist who knows exactly where
it will hurt most.
The book tackles the whole visual
experience of living in Australia in
1960. which leads Boyd into some
excellently conducted analyses of the
national character and its origins in
our peculiar history and geographical
situation. Boyd is a distinguished
architect and an experienced writer
about ' his subject; his pen-and-ink
drawings which illustrate the book are
as clear and witty as his prose, a rare
combination of abilities which he
shares with Osbert Lancaster.
The ugliness he is searching out is
not, however, only an architectural
one: it involves all that hits the eye
from Surfers’ Paradise to the model
town of Elizabeth in South Australia.
Though this book ought to be
prescribed reading in all Government
departments for 1961, Boyd is too
honest to refer all faults to official
channels. We get what we deserve, and.
above all, the book is a brilliant
analysis of average Australian taste, of
what we poor mugs think is “good.”
It is, after all, our fault that official-
dom is so powerful here, that we
bronzed independent Aussies are one
of the most regimented nations on
earth. Boyd does indeed show how
the official mind did its best to foul-up
two planned towns, Canberra and
Elizabeth. He tells the shocking story,
which younger readers will probably
not know, of the way Griffin’s plan
for Canberra was shoved out of the
way by a departmental board, and
how “The Bulletin’s” campaign to
“Save Canberra” was signed by
nearly three-hundred architects in a
few days, and how Griffin was eventu-
ally allowed back again, only to be
hindered as much as possible.
Similarly in South Australia, where
the Housing Trust, with its immense
powers and resources, had wonderful
opportunities for imagination and
boldness in laying out the new town of
Elizabeth, the architects and planners
were restrained and forced to toe the
line with average, dreary, Australian
taste.
Boyd lays most blame on what he
calls “Featurism,” a dishonest concen-
tration on the skin of things rather
than on the whole or the essence. “It
may be found.” he says, “in architec-
ture or in the planning of cities or the
design of magazines, espresso bars,
neon signs, motor - cars, gardens,
crockery, kitchenware and everywhere
between. It is the evasion of the bold,
realistic, self-evident, straightforward,
honest answer to all questions of design
and appearance in man's artificial
environment."
One of Australia’s great tragedies, as
Boyd points out. is that we started off
so well and so honestly; the few
colonial cottages and houses and
churches and public buildings that have
been allowed to survive are evidence
of a modesty and a practical attitude
that are the last things that are wanted
now. Boyd gives brilliant but dismay-
ing descriptions of the frenzy that grips
us now. For instance, what he calls
“the North Shore Executive Zone” of
Sydney:—
Here some of the most dramati-
cally beautiful country available to
suburban commuters anywhere in
the world seems to draw out a
delinquent streak in nearly everyone
who builds. .. .The few thoughtful
buildings of the area are all but lost
in a wild scramble of outrageous
Featurism clearly planned for the
express purpose of extracting a gasp
of envy from each passing sports-
car.
He goes on to tackle “the annihila-
tory urge” that demolishes old build-
ings and trees with equal gusto, the
“selective blindness” that ignores over-
head wires and streets groaning with
advertisements, the “philistinian-
puritan denial of reality” which makes
so many “features” of Australia so
damnably genteel. He is also very-
interesting on the fact that English
and European migrants show no desire
to do anything but conform as rapidly
as possible with average Australian
taste, another demonstration of the
perils of pressurised assimilation. Then,
again, there are the imitators and
worshippers of all things American;
this aspect of our character Boyd calls
Austerica. He gives this smugness
and timidity the boot it deserves.
Boyd has done such a good job in
this book that it is painful to criticise
him, but for the benefit of the ordinary
reader he should have distinguished
more clearly between the horrors of
featurism and the legitimate graces of
decoration. For instance, he is a bit
snooty about the pictures on most
people’s walls, and a bit pompous
about the “frightening honesty of the
blank wall.”
Nevertheless, these are only minor
quibbles. This is an important and
valuable book which makes an
eloquent and witty appeal for the most
despised commodity in Australia—
ideas. As long as we conform to the
average with our present self-satisfac-
tion. any man with ideas will be
trampled on as a subversive disrupter
of our peace. The beauty of this book
is that it shows just how unsatisfactory
is accepted good taste in Australia. It
also reminds us that in Australia
“constructive talent of the kind
essential to the initiation of ideas in
all fields is given lower rewards, pro-
portionately to the country's richness,
than almost anywhere else.” Boyd
writes with a love of ideas and a love
of his country. A rare combination.
Geoffrey Dutton
The New Kingsley Amis
Take a Girl Like You. Kingsley Amis.
Gollancz; Moore's Bookshop.
225. 6d.
The gentleman who, during the
“Lady Chatterley’s Lover” trial, wrote
to a Sydney newspaper to tell its readers
that the most sacred act in human
experience was described by a four-
letter word may very well find Kingsley
Amis’s novel too profane. There is no
sex worship here. And after a century
and a half in which writers were
expected at first to abolish sex from
their books and were later expected to
give it a special, self-conscious and
often arbitrarily “liberated” treatment
that is indeed something.
The principal subject matter —the
determination of a 20-year-old girl to
preserve her virginity despite the many
claims made on it —is one that has not
often been dealt with in the last century
and a half (in the English language at
any rate) with anything approaching
artistry. For a whole part of that
period sex did not exist; some puzzling
thing went on between men and women
that involved a lot of artificial
language; it was as if one described a
dinner party by recording the talk but
did not reveal what the people were
actually eating. In the subsequent
period of “liberation” it was impos-
sible to talk about virginity without
taking sides; the author joined the
seducer in attacking virginity, which
had become notoriously bad for
morals and/or health.
Now here is a largely comic book,
in which there are enough ins and outs
of bed to satisfy even the most
liberated mind (there is even a comic
episode about a lesbian, and liberated
minds don’t try to be funny about that)
(Continued on page 49)


/
Ifpk
4 1 ■ I
WK
tm.
m
m
m
ms
iiflliilill:
c, -\ s **■: N
;, _ 1
8 s?
m r
m
i m; j
. V>4*< * , *
•vri'
■■«*»**
*•«
Free Services
... TO THE FLOCK
AND HERD BREEDER
Let us assist you to select
your herd or Stud Bulls,
Flock or Stud Rams
These Services are
free to every breeder
Elders Stud Stock Team, with their wide experience
and complete knowledge of Stud Stock, are available
at all times to render full Service to buyers.
Elders Stud Stock Departments in five Capital Cities,
backed by a network of 200 Country Branches, are
to-day giving unequalled and complete Service to
Breeders all over Australia.
Take advantage of this free Advisory Service by our
experts: they are specialists in Stud Stock.
Prompt attention at all times. Phone your nearest
Elder Branch.
Elders complete Service to the Man on the Land covers Wool, Merchandise, Livestock, Travel, Skin
and Hides, Insurance Chartering, Property, Rural Finance.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY, MELBOURNE, GEELONG, SYDNEY,
NEWCASTLE, GOULBURN, BRISBANE, LONDON


The Bulletin
DECEMBER 28, 1960
Vol. 81
No. 4220
INDEX
COVER STORY
John Bull’s Other Camp .. 11
CURRENT AFFAIRS
Plain English
Trade-union Shadows; Mr
Rylah’s Impulse; N. S.
Wales’s Catholic Liberals 6
Political Points .. ....... .. 16
OVERSEAS
Treating the Sick Dollar .. 40
DEPARTMENTS
Aboriginalities .. .. ..... .. 42
Personal .. ............ 14
Service and Information .. .. 44
Society ....... mj ...... 8
FEATURES
In Joanna Southcott’s Box .. 22
What Asians Think of Us.
No. 1: Indians ...... 25
Cobb & Cos. of Yokohama .. 47
FICTION
Where’s Otto? by Jack Lusby 18
FINANCE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
The Outlook for 1961 .... 34
Wild Cat Pages .. .. .. .. 23
LETTERS ... .. .. .. .. 45
MAN ON THE LAND
In Stagnant Queensland, by
M. H. Ellis ........ 37
REVIEWS
The Red Page
The Australian Ugliness .. 2
Shows .. .. ... .. ..; .. .. 26
SPORT
More Dazzling Cricket Ahead 31
Johp Schofield 33
WOMEN
American Goods: End of a
Romance .. .. ~ ~ .. 29
NEXT WEEK
ANATOMY OF A
BACKBENCHER
by Alan Reid
The Bulletin Newspaper Cos. Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street,
Sydney; Box 2521; Phone: BU 5971.
Who’s Afraid of
Next Year?
JN theory, politics should sharpen up in the new year as the parties define
issues for the Federal election. In practice the only thing still worth talking
about is: will Labor ever take sufficient grip on itself to emerge as a party
of government? There is still no sign that it will. The country will still have
to do as best as it can under what virtually amounts to a system of one-
party rule.
The tragic demoralisation of the Labor party has been dramatised but
also obscured by the Labor split. Even given Higinbotham, the Liberal-
Country party coalition could probably scrape through next year’s election
without D.L.P. preferences—given that some D.L.P. supporters would vote
Liberal anyway. Labor’s demoralisation is not due to the fact that the
D.L.P. hived off, but that the party is still divided internally between a series
of pluses and minuses that add up to something perilously close to nothing. If
all the Right-wingers had walked out and re-formed the Labor party, or if
the Right-wingers had stayed together and pushed out the Left, we would
have a workable alternative to the present Government —provided that the
last childish dreams of a social heaven on earth were eradicated and Labor
reshaped itself as a great nationalist party concerned with the preservation of
Australia in a dangerous, wicked world.
Has the Menzies Government anything at all to be afraid of next year?
It must, of course, imagine that it has; unpredictable catastrophe can always
strike in politics. But given nothing very dramatic it is probably sure of
re-election. The going is a little bumpy for the moment; the Government
perhaps should have relaxed import controls a little more gradually, and
should have taken its recent corrective action a little less boldly. But there
is no doubt that removing import controls was a job that had to be done;
and no doubt that some kind of disinflationary action is now necessary. It is
true that the Government’s economic policy has been one of stops and starts;
but what economic policy isn’t? The exact gradations of acceleration and
deceleration are finally a matter of trial and error, and a nervous driver is as
dangerous as a reckless one. We have certainly not experienced a catastrophe.
\V HAT we need in this country is some kind of adequate stop-and-start
mechanism, some partly psychological signal system such as the Fritish
Bank Rate which gives leads to the economy without having to improvise
legislation every couple of years with the Treasury’s economic do-it-yourself
kit. The effectiveness of psychological weapons could not be better illustrated
than by the results of the Government’s recent announcements on economic
policy. The two major changes have not even been legislated for yet, but
what the Government wanted is already in operation.
It is this kind of thing that the Government should now be thinking
about. It should also,'of course, be thinking about winning the election, but
if it is re-elected again it has a marvellous chance of getting in early, with
another three years ahead of it, and doing some of the things that are harder
to do when an election is approaching. Nothing better could have happened
to Australia than to enjoy a long period of liberal conservative rule; but in
the next few years we must begin to be more long-term in our attitudes.
Conservative Governments can become dangerously run-down and
backward-looking after too many election successes —almost as much so as
Labor Governments!


"BETTER LUCK WITH HIM THAN I HAD, SON!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Trade-union Shadows
'T'wo recent developments in the trade-
-*■ unions could easily lead to the open-
ing of a new chapter in Australian
industrial history. The first is the threat
by the International Council of Free
Trade Unions to expel the Australian
Council of Trade Unions for its decision
to levy unionists to finance the visit of
Chinese “trade-unionists.” The I.C.F.T.U.
has not yet said this in so many words.
Mr Omer Becu, secretary-general of the
1.C.F.T.U., has only said: “The
I.C.F.T.U. executive board may consider
the A.C.T.U.’s affiliation with us.” But
this amounts to saying that if the
A.C.T.U. does not change its policy and
admit that it was wrong and that the
12 unions who refused to pay the levy
were right, then it will be expelled. If
that happens the A.C.T.U. will certainly
split up, and the 12 unions representing
200,000 workers will be looking for a
new federation of unions to join.
Two years ago the Australian Workers’
Union foreshadowed such a move with
its proposal for a non-Communist
Federation of Labor to replace the
A.C.T.U. At the time the A.C.T.U.
roared with derisive laughter. It knew
that the rest of the union movement dis-
trusted the A.W.U., regarded it as a
body-snatcher, a wrecker of the Labor
Governments in Melbourne, Brisbane
and Canberra, a parasite on the
A.C.T.U.’s court work, a “boss’s” union
that demanded all other unions toe its
line. To federate with it would be like
sleeping with a crocodile. The idea
looked like fizzling out.
But the A.W.U. is changing—and this
is the second big development in the
trade-union field. Federal secretary Tom
Dougherty, N.S.W. secretary Charlie
Oliver and new Queensland secretary
Edgar Williams (who succeeded the late
Joe Bukowski) are‘developing new tech-
niques.
They now talk with other unions
instead of shouting, negotiate instead of
threatening, congratulate instead of sneer-
ing. Not only that, but they have realised
that it is not their record but their public
relations that are bad. They have little
to be ashamed of in the wage field: their
Snowy Mountains award and others of
their 600-odd awards are among the best
in Australia, and they are beginning to
tell people about them. Further, they
are committed to arbitration and anti-
Communism. As for their proposed
Federation of Labor, they accept the
need for guaranteeing the rights of the
federated unions and seem to have given
up the idea of swallowing all other
unions.
If the A.C.T.U. is expelled from the
I.C.F.T.U. the Australian Federation of
Labor may become an actuality, and if
it receives international recognition by
I.C.F.T.U. the A.C.T.U. will be left to
receive the kiss of death from the
Communist-dominated World Federation
of Trade Unions.
Catholic Liberals
Tt can be safely assumed that in New
-*■ South Wales heads of the Catholic
hierarchy vote Labor, that in Victoria
some of them vote D.L.P., and that in
Queensland some of them vote Liberal.
Even if this does not explode the myth
that all Catholics vote the same ticket,
this year’s political rumpus between Dr
Rumble and Bishop Fox about whether
Catholics could vote for the A.L.P. would
have done so. People have now started
asking why so few Catholics either vote
for, or are members of, the Liberal party.
The most significant feature of the
recent election by the N.S.W. Liberal-
party executive of Lieut.-Colonel Ralph
Honner as its new State president is that
he is a Catholic. The N.S.W. Liberals
may at last be taking a leaf out of Mr
Menzies’s book when he showed that he
recognised the importance of the middle-
class Catholic vote by appointing Senator
O’Sullivan as Minister for Customs and
Mr Cramer as Minister for the Army.
They may also be trying to recover the
ground they lost when they failed in
1958 to endorse their only Catholic
M.L.A. after his electorate was changed.
(At a Blacktown State Conference of the
Liberal party in May, 1958, Councillor
Mobbs, an Anglican, told the conference
how he had been approached by execu-
tive officers of the party not to vote for
Mr Clough because he was a Catholic.
Councillor Mobbs deplored these tactics,
but Mr Clough still lost his endorsement.)
Lieutenant-Colonel Honner and party
officials say that they are not going to
go out of their way to encourage Catho-
lics to join the party any more than
other sections of the community. But
Honner, a regular speaker at Catholic
meetings, is one of the best-known Catho-
lics in the State, and his appointment is
bound to have repercussions in Catholic
circles. He has a D.S.O. and M.C., as
well as a B.A. and LL.B., and during the
war fought in Libya, Greece, Crete and
New Guinea. He is now chairman of
No 2 War Pensions Appeal Tribunal.
If his appointment, along with similar
follow-up moves such as the N.S.W.
Country party’s decision to consider aid
for Church schools, leads -to a significant
proportion of Catholic voters abandoning
their traditional allegiance to the Labor
party, the N.S.W. Labor Government may
at last be defeated. Nothing else seems
likely to do it. If that happened—in the
only State at present with a strong Labor
Government —what would then become
of the A.L.P?
Jewish Takeover?
Someone seems to be trying to take-
over the Jewish communities in
Melbourne and Sydney. There is as much
talk of allegations of disappearing and
forged ballot-papers as there was when
Laurie Short was ousting the Commu-
nists from the Ironworkers’ Federation.
The first scandal broke last month in
Melbourne when the Jewish Bund (a
group of anti-Communist Socialists of
European origin) called a meeting in the
Kadimah Hall, Carlton, to protest about
the elections held for the Jewish Board
of Deputies, the controlling organisation
to which are affiliated nearly all Jewish
societies covering Victoria's 30,000 Jews.
Bund speakers told the meeting that
they had lodged 606 votes for their can-
didates and that when the votes were
subsequently counted by the returning-
officers over 300 were missing. They
demanded of the executive board to hold
a new election to discover who had
stolen their votes and to find out what
group was trying to gain control of the
board.
The second scandal became public in
Sydney a little over two weeks after the
Victorian incident. After the election of
the Central Synagogue’s new president
and board-of-management, angry mem-
bers of the Jewish community said that
some group had interfered with the
ballot. They made three allegations: first,
that ballot-papers were not sent out 14
days before the annual meeting, thus
preventing some members from voting ;
second, that at least one ballot-paper was
forged with the signature of a person
who was overseas ; third, that one of the
congregation members had taken a num-
ber of ballot-papers from the synagogue
office and that the member had signed
an affidavit to this affect.
In Melbourne the board-of-deputies
decided to hold new elections and to
change the method of voting ; and in
Sydney the retiring president of the
Central Synagogue said: “It would be


unfair to declare the poll in the light of
the allegation.”
The new elections will take place on
January 16, 1961.
The Super-salesman
■VTobody in the rest of Australia can be
expected to be very much interested
in the fact that Sydney’s Lord Mayor,
Alderman Harry Jensen, had a trip
abroad early this year. Every member
of a municipal council, like every mem-
ber of every Parliament, always has a
trip abroad. It is something that rate-
payers and electors like to do for them,
to make them happy ; and if it is expen-
sive it has at least one advantage—it gets
them out of the road for a while.
The only unusual thing about Aider-
man Jensen’s little jaunt was that instead
of going to “investigate” transport or
something—i.e., do absolutely nothing—
he went off to sell some land. It is not
often you see a Lord Mayor going round
the world as a travelling salesman in
real-estate.
But when the piece of land happened
to be Martin Place, the very heart of
Sydney, trodden by the blistered feet of
every tourist from the other States, there
could indeed be some national interest
in the deal; and everyone might feel
that more use might be made of Aider-
man Jensen’s brilliant salesmanship.
What else might he be able to sell for us?
He got no less than £1,400,000 for
Martin Place, from some mysterious
crowd of London benefactors known as
the E. Alec Colman group. True, after
the best part of a year, it turned out that
the group wasn’t going to buy Martin
Place after all. They were tender-hearted
people and they didn’t want to evict any
of the existing inhabitants, especially
on “their first appearance in the Aus-
tralian scene.” So, as Alderman Jensen
didn’t think of exacting a deposit from
them, the final and total result of this
£1,400,000 deal was precisely nothing.
But the brilliance of the salesmanship
remains.
Mr Rylah's Impulse
Tt has been a great year for Arthur
-*• Rylah, Victoria’s Attorney - General
and Chief Secretary, and it is ending as
it began, with the discovery of another
scandal—vice in espresso bars. In fact,
the further Rylah delves into the mire,
the stickier it grows with bad men —who
are, of course, southern Europeans.
He has been aided considerably in this
by what is forbiddingly known in some
Australian capitals as the Vice Squad
(whose chief activity in Melbourne is
stamping out sex).
What is in the wind could have been
guessed. The Vice Squad wants more
men, and a Liberal lieutenant of the
Chief Secretary’s flies the kite for him
on the necessity of licensing espresso
bars.
The Chief Secretary’s impulse to do
good has been a characteristic since boy-
hood. Because of his solicitude for the
well-being of the scholars and the school
itself, his nickname at Trinity Grammar
was Mother Rylah. Filled with solicitude
for the erring Victorian electorate, he
has certainly been mothering it lately.
He has held his Ministerial posts since
1955, and some critics now find his
pronouncements more like those of a
departmental permanent head than those
of a Minister in a democracy.
Just before his discovery of the white-
slave traffic in espresso bars, Arthur
Rylah had announced that the Govern-
ment would not allow publications into
Victoria merely because they had been
passed by the Federal Customs Depart-
ment and the Censorship Board. Having
cleaned up the business of treating at
elections by making it legal to serve
afternoon-tea or supper, he is now in-
vestigating the sale of toy plastic guns,
compulsory inspection of vehicles for
roadworthiness and compulsory blood-
tests for suspected drivers, matters in
which departmental officials would like
more authority.
He is chiefly responsible for the intro-
duction of breath-lysers (which the courts
don’t trust), an Act which permits police
to take drivers’ car-keyS on suspicion
(which has genuinely outraged the more
libera] section of legal men), and he was
very resentful of the Legislative Coun-
cil’s rejection of a bill to permit tram-
ways-inspectors to act as parking-
attendants. And he recently shepherded
through Parliament a bill, now enacted,
sharply increasing maximum penalties on
offenders against good order.
There is no recorded instance of Arthur
Rylah criticising officials or their actions,
although several policemen have lately
been jailed for offences, and some
officials have disappeared quietly from
public office without prosecution.
Inquiry Into Inquiries
'T'HE decision of the N.S.W. Bar Associa-
tion to set-up a committee to investi-
gate complaints about “certain features
of recent coronial inquiries'’ coming so
soon after the passing of a new Coroners
Act in N.S.W. indicates that the Bar is by
no means satisfied with the reforms made
by the new Act. So definite is the Bar’s
feeling on the matter that the setting-up
of the committee is in fact a victory for
the conservatives ; the radical wing of
the Bar preferred to issue a strong public
statement here and now, condemning the
conduct of some recent inquests.
When and if the new Act is proclaimed,
it will go some way towards restricting
the powers of coroners, but not in any
important respect. Under section 28, for
example, a coroner must go no further
if someone is charged during an inquest;
and if someone is charged before an in-
quest begins the coroner must limit his
inquiries to identifying the body. In one
respect, on the other hand, the coroner’s
powers are actually increased: by section
42 ( b ) he can decide to hear proceedings
in camera or to forbid publication of any
proceedings in the press.
These amendments follow the English
Act, but as in England the controversial
question of hearsay evidence is not
touched on. The Act does not deal, for
example, with an inquest in which no
one is being charged but in which
hearsay evidence damaging to someone’s
reputation is still admitted —even though
it would not be admitted in a court of
law. Further —some lawyers argue—
even if there is a good case for admitting
hearsay evidence, there should be some
reasonable limit. It should be restricted,
for example, to the death in question,
and hearsay about other deaths should
be excluded. The new Act, however,
imposes no such restrictions.
To some lawyers it seems that the
restriction on the freedom of the press
under section 42 ( b ) —which is bad in
principle and is a bad precedent—com-
bined with the failure to restrict the
powers of the coroner to admit any sort
of hearsay evidence, makes the worst of
both worlds.
Though the radicals had to accept the
idea of a committee, it is expected the
committee’s report will make far-reach-
ing proposals—even if they take longer
about it. The new Act will certainly not
be the last word.


Society
DRAMA THERAPY AT WORK...
On the Psycho Circuit
DRAMA THERAPY AT WORK...
“T’d better warn you that the audience
will be cold tonight,” said the pro-
ducer, as the cast finished making-up.
“Don’t be disappointed if the laugh-
lines don’t get across. It’s just that
most people in the audience are under
heavy sedation.”
The tension backstage mounted as the
minutes passed. A murmur of voices
filtered through the curtain from the
audience out front. The producer took
her place in the wings on the prompt
side.
At 7.15 the curtains parted at Callan
Park mental hospital, and the audience
of legally detained men and women began
to watch a play performed by seven
patients from nearby Broughton Hall
psychiatric clinic four schizophrenics,
two manic-depressives and a paranoiac.
This strange and affecting occasion,
just before Christmas, was the culmina-
tion of a campaign carried through in
the face of human frailties and official
scepticism by two women, Dr Mary
Manery and Miss Elizabeth Randall.
Dr Manery is working at Broughton
Hall to complete her Diploma of Psycho-
logical Medicine (she has passed the
theoretical examination with the highest
marks ever recorded).
Elizabeth Randall, producer of the
play, is a businesswoman in Sydney with
interests and accomplishments that would
be remarkable even in a man. She holds
a pilot’s licence, has passed the School
of Navigation’s course in coastal naviga-
tion and has the job of N.S.W. manager
for the Melbourne firm of Avron Invest-
ments, Ltd. (When her company still
owned the Plaza Hotel at Wynyard,
Elizabeth Randall directed the legal battle
against the Commissioner of Railways
over plans for the rebuilding of the
hotel —a fight which was finally won in
the Privy Council.)
One of Elizabeth Randall’s most per-
sonal involvements has been with the
theatre. A woman who has had to
battle masculine prejudice in all its
devious aspects, she finds in the produc-
tion of plays an outlet for some of the
many frustrations that face women in
business in Australia.
~TVR Manery and Elizabeth Randall
have been friends for years, and
have a mutual interest in the problems
of the mentally sick person in the modern
world. Elizabeth Randall, from her
readings in philosophy (she took a short
course under Anderson at Sydney Uni-
versity after the war) and recent trends
in scientific thinking, has come to believe
that the greatest threat to the individual
today is what she calls “cosmic loneli-
ness,” or the increasing sense of isola-
tion and helplessness in the face of the
monster of science.
“When this sense of helplessness be-
comes overwhelming,” says Elizabeth
Randall, “the mind may attempt to take
refuge in some secret inner world. Some-
times the outward manifestation of this
withdrawal shows itself in a ‘personality
disorder,’ or, to put it bluntly, insanity.
“Dr Manery believes that in some
cases this wall of loneliness can be broken
down, and the individual encouraged to
emerge from his or her world of self-
induced isolation, by drama therapy.”
The theory of drama therapy is that
by acting with others, and being there-
fore obliged to integrate his thoughts
and actions with others, the mentally
sick person can forget, for a time, his
problems, and perhaps eventually learn
to rejoin the stream of life.
About three months ago Dr Manery
invited Elizabeth Randall to help her
test this theory by casting a play from
among the patients at Broughton Hall
and performing before audiences at all
Sydney’s mental hospitals.
Many psychiatric specialists, including
Professor Trethowan, Professor of
Psychiatry at Sydney University, doubted
whether mentally-ill people could sus-
tain the necessary concentration and co-
operation. But Elizabeth Randall went
ahead.
"pROM the repertoire she has produced
over the years, at places ranging from
the Pocket Playhouse, Sydenham, to the
Cronulla Golf Club, she selected a four-
scene, one - act adaptation of a late-
Victorian farce-melodrama, “God Bless
the Government,” that she had made
herself.
“The images of the people in this
play are clearly defined,” she explains.
“The heroine is sweet and pretty, and
‘too good to be true.’ The villain is
eminently hissable. The audience are
invited to involve themselves in the
action by applauding and hissing where
appropriate.”
To select her cast she held a normal
play-reading at Broughton Hall (where
the patients are voluntary, in the sense
that they can at any time sign themselves
out —but, on the other hand, if a
seriously-ill person attempted to do so
he could be legally committed and
detained elsewhere).
From the patients who volunteered,
Elizabeth Randall selected two women
and five men., The girl who was to play
the heroine was in her twenties. She
was extremely alert, intelligent and attrac-
tive. She had attempted suicide several
times while under treatment. The other
woman, cast as the mother, had a hus-
band and two children. She had also
been admitted after a suicide attempt.
“There were certain difficulties during
rehearsal,” admits Elizabeth Randall.
“Occasionally one of the cast would
withdraw into a private world while on
stage. And of course none of them had
any stage experience. My biggest prob-
lem was to give them confidence in their
producer. It is hard enough to ask a
professional actor or actress to make a
fool of themselves, at the best of times.”
HPhe first performance was at Broughton
Hall, before an audience of patients
and friends. Professor Trethowan and
other doctors came to watch. The ten-
sion backstage that night, before the
curtain went up, was as taut as Elizabeth


Randall has ever known it in all her
years in the theatre.
“I’ve had Dinah Shearing burst into
tears on me, and I’ve seen Kevin Brennan
break down with nerves before going
on,” she says. “But this cast didn’t
crack* Not one of them.”
That first performance was a revela-
tion to all, especially the cast. They dis-
covered that they could cope with a
complicated situation ; that they could
mesh their thoughts and activities with
others’; that they could sustain, for an
hour, a farce of little importance but
considerable demands. Not once did they
relax their concentration, deny the disci-
pline of the producer, or retreat into
their cocoon of forgetfulness.
In the weeks that followed Elizabeth
Randall and her players toured what
they jocularly called the “psycho circuit.”
Their confidence was immense. The out-
ward change in the patients’ personalities
astonished their doctors.
Then came Callan Park, and their
biggest test. Here was no bright, chderful,
modern approach to mental disorder, but
an example of the most depressing kind
of institution that society has devised
for the isolation of the insane. Here
were the old stone buildings, the dark,
gloomy wards, the atmosphere of despair,
many patients in the last stages of hallu-
cination and derangement. And over it
all the brooding knowledge of a Royal
Commission investigation into alleged
maltreatment of the patients.
Elizabeth Randall’s players came to
Callan Park tense, but with the confidence
they had gained under her unshakeable
calm. As they filed into the building
the door was locked behind them. Along
a passage, up a few steps into the rear
of a large stone building, and the door
was locked behind them again. They
found themselves on a tiny stage. They
quickly arranged their scenery and props.
The murmur of the audience came
through the curtain.
/"Ane of the cast walked up and down,
anxious to begin. “I can’t stop,
that’s my trouble,” he said. “That’s what
got me into Broughton Hall. I couldn’t
stop, couldn’t relax. In the end I found
1 was planning to kill the man I lived
with.” (In the early stages of rehearsal
he had attacked another member of the
cast. Now he seemed fully in control
of himself.)
At last the performance began. As the
cast were introduced, some spectators
reacted with encouraging enthusiasm,
whistling at the heroine and hissing the
villain. As the play unfolded, it became
clear that only a few among the audience
in the high stone hall were not paying
any attention.
The audience, of all ages, was segre-
gated—men to the right, women to the
left. Most were poorly dressed. Some
talked to themselves throughout the per-
formance. Others slept. Sitting in the
front row of elderly women was a
striking girl in her twenties, with smooth,
carefully brushed blonde hair and a
serene, untroubled face.
When the play was over there was
loud applause. The leading man came
out in his costume and announced an
“entertainment.” First the play’s com-
s '
“New issue—made in Japan—the Q.M. says it's cheaper.”
pere, an attendant from Broughton Hall,
sang sentimental Irish songs. The
sweet, lamenting voice brought an im-
mediate hush. The people in the hall
strained almost physically towards the
singer, and the mumbling ceased. Among
the women an old lady lowered her head
on her hands.
Another patient from Broughton Hall
sang two American ballads and played
the guitar. Some of the audience
hummed the tune of “The Streets of
Laredo.” A relative of one of the mem-
bers of the cast, herself an old trouper,
did her paper-tearing act. The audience
openly marvelled/ at the wheels, ladders,
dolls, and Christmas-trees that blossomed
from rolled-up copies of the morning
paper.
Another man in the cast did the patter-
and-juggling act for which he was once
famous on the Tivoli stage. The audience,
though visibly tiring, summoned its re-
maining powers of concentration to
laugh at the old jokes. For a long
moment, under the yellow lights high
in the hall, as the short, jaunty man on
the stage twirled his bowler-hat and re-
marked about the funny thing that had
happened to him on the way to the
theatre, and the men and women rocked
with laughter, the scene merged into
the mirror-image of the reality that it
represented.
■piNALLY there were presentations of
flowers to the ladies of the cast, and
to Elizabeth Randall. Then the leading
man, sweat trickling down his grease-
paint, spoke again to the audience:
“We want you to know that we are
all from Broughton Hall. If we can do
this, so can you. We are hoping to have
a return visit from you.”
There was a murmur of surprise from
the men and women of Callan Park
before they began to file out the far
end of the hall into the long stone corri-
dors, to return to their wards and their
endless nights.
“Eight performances without a falter,”
said Elizabeth Randall, grey with fatigue
and yet elated. The entire cast was
excited with the release from strain, as
they sat down to coffee and sandwiches
in the dining-room next to the hall.
The only thing lacking from this
theatrical occasion was the wait for the
reviews in the morning papers. For
Elizabeth Randall’s cast and Dr
Manery’s patients the reviews will
surely come, in the form of the bearing
their acting has on their own recovery,
and the decision by the authorities at
Broughton Hall as to whether drama
therapy can and should become a per-
manent factor in the treatment of mental
illness.
BARS, BARS, BLACK SHEEP
“Far too many espressos and milk-bars in
Melbourne were breeding-grounds for crime,
some forcing teenage girls into vice, said the
Victorian Chief Secretary, Mr Rylah.”
Constables upon their rounds
Observe with somewhat troubled eyes
The breeding grounds in coffee grounds
Of adolescent female vice:
Beware the milk-bar and espresso —
Chief Secretary Rylah says so.
How strange that bread-and-butter misses,
Safe with tea and even toffee,
Succumb to crime and vicious kisses,
When exposed to milk and coffee,
Skinful in their sinful teens,
Full of milk and full of beans.
Let’s hope such milk and coffee bars,
Corrupting youth, go out of fashion,
And wine saloons and samovars
Come back as haunts of adult passion
Where it will be their turn to stray
Who eata extra egga day.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.




In a Migrant Centre
John Bull’s Other Camp
By S. W. KEOUGH
ON the fringe of one of Sydney’s
choice residential areas —Lind-
field, on the North Shore line—•
lies Bradfield Park. It was just
an expanse of dense bushland until the
early war years, when it was cleared
to make a big camp for the R.A.A.F.
The same huts which the airmen occu-
pied are used now to house British
migrants.
They come direct to the hostel from
the ship, and it is to be their home until
such time as they can either buy their
own or rent houses or flats —the last two
extreme improbabilities. The average
stay is around two years. Some have
been there four to five years.
Each hut is divided into one-, two-,
three- or four-bedroom flats, according
to the size of the family. Limited space
precludes the luxury of a separate
sitting-room; this problem is partially
overcome by having the double-bed in
the parents’ room of the divan type, so
that during the day it acts as a settee.
The space is restricted, but the occupants
learn to live with it, as with the other
inconveniences of community living.
All are buoyed by the one great hope—
to get into their own homes with the
greatest possible speed.
This aim motivates their whole mode
of life. Almost every wife has a job, and
in most cases her earnings more than
cover the cost of their accommodation
and meals, enabling the husband’s pay to
be banked intact. One wife, a Lanca-
shire girl who works in a canteen,
expressed the view of nearly all of them:
“We save like mad!”
Practically the only wives who are not
out at work are those with infants under
two years of age ; but even some who
have babies consider it worth while to
pay a baby-sitter £3 10s. a week to
enable them to be free to help stack it
up in the family coffer. Children between
two and five years are cared for during
the day in the hostel’s own kindergarten
—an excellent, free service which enables
the mothers to work. During the day,
and while the rest of the 450 children ate
at school, the hostel grounds are practi-
cally deserted. The hostel accommodates
between 950 and 1000, and there are
never any empty flats.
With a burst of rare prescience the
Commonwealth Government decided to
put the running of all such hostels in
the hands of a company, Commonwealth
Hostels, Ltd., which, although sponsored
by the Government, has carte blanche to
run them without any official interfer-
ence. If Bradfield is an average example
of the rest, their management is a tribute
to efficiency laced with patience and a
diplomacy born of long experience in
handling the peculiar problems which
inevitably arise from time to time.
Naturally it is impossible to run a
hostel housing hundreds of families under
trying conditions without friction obtrud-
ing at some time. This can be triggered
in a 100 ways. Petty jealousies flare
up; families who see too much of each
other fall out with the same inexora-
bility as do neighboring wives who spend
too much time on each other’s door-
steps. These frictions are never allowed
to boil-over into ugly incidents. The
company’s officials, using tact and dis-
cretion, encourage everybody to bring
their domestic problems such as this to
them and straighten things out then and
there. Usually sweet reason prevails
after tempers have cooled.
Children are often the cause of dis-
sension between families. They, too, see
too much of each other within the con-
fines of the hostel grounds. One has a
swipe at another’s nose and taps the
gore. He rushes blubbering into the flat
and his father, temper frayed by a wear-
ing day at the factory-bench, rushes over
to the other father and wants to know
why the hell they can’t keep their freckle-
faced idiot of a son in order. Before
coats are off and fists flying word has got
to the right quarter, and the delicate task
of smoothing-over the incident is under
way. It has got to be done quick-smart
and suavely—if it is not a chain-reaction
could set-in, something to be avoided
at all costs. But things never reach any-
where near that stage. Such dissensions
as occur are usually of such a nature
that they can be extinguished without
trouble.
Migrants are given every opportunity
to save so that they eventually achieve
their prime ambition of owning their own
home. Thus the total bill for the family
for a week’s accommodation and meals
runs to no more than between £9 and
£lO. This includes the laundering of bed-
linen, etc., free by the co. Beds, mat-
tresses, pillows, blankets, sheets, spreads,
towels, bedside-rugs and curtains all go
with the flat, as well as wardrobes and
such amenities as electric-radiators. The
only washing which the occupants have
to do is that of personal clothing. For
this there is an abundance of hot water
and batteries of double concrete tubs.
All meals are taken in two huge
dining-halls, which are painted in
cheerful colors, with Vinyl tiles on the
floors. Each family has its own table.
Variety of menu, especially for the main
dinner at night, constitutes a major
problem. This would be a headache in
any community of 1000, but it becomes
a double one when there has to be taken
into consideration y not only the necessity
to avoid monotony but the prejiwfcces
against any food other than what they
have been used to in their own country
which many migrants harbor. Some of
them would stoke themselves with roast
beef and Yorkshire pudding, almost to
the exclusion of all else. They are the
type who treasure their prejudices almost
lovingly—making it so much harder
for them to assimilate into a new way
of life. And from their ranks come the
few who despairingly want to give it
away after a while and, if they can rake
up the money, return home, to warn their
fellows at home not to follow their
example and come to this awful country.
And often they are also the ones who,
disillusioned on returning to England,
where they may have to accept in wages
less than half what they are making here,
are only too anxious to get back, if they
can, after only six months or so.
The chefs ring the changes on the
food as best they can, and mostly with
good results ; but they know better than
to put such fare as Hungarian goulash
on the menu. They tried that once.
They may as well have put fricasseed


death-adder or seaweed souffle on the
menu, or announced that the provender
had been liberally dusted with thallium.
Nothing with even the faintest suggestion
of Middle Europe in its composition
would ever get past their gullets!
But there is plenty to eat. For lunch
—which only a few would be there to
have —there was soup ministrone, an
entree of meat and vegetables, salad with
vegetables and mashed potatoes, and a
sweet. At night there is always the
choice of two meats and two sweets, with
the trimmings.
Some of the wives work in the can-
teen, and though they might be able to
earn more outside, this is offset by the
saving they effect in fares —a consider-
able item. The work is light and con-
genial ; an easy camaraderie binds them
together —that and their common aim.
The hot and cold showers are neces-
sarily communal, in blocks, as are the
toilets, and all are kept scrupulously
clean. Recreation has been wisely
regarded as of prime importance, with
particular emphasis on the needs of the
young. With this in mind the co. runs
a Youth Club. Under the guidance of
a paid Youth-leader there is almost every
activity to keep the minds and bodies
of the children exercised, with gym-
nasium in the forefront of energy-
burning action. For the older teenagers
there are dances, a tape-recorder taking
the place of a band. The parents are
similarly catered for in less-strenuous
ways in the recreation hall, but always
with the basic object of relieving the
boredom which can so easily become
the forerunner of discontent. Housie-
housie is one of the great stand-bys.
Ballet classes for the children are one
of the most popular of the recreational
activities.
Most of the children are between five
and 12, and almost a stone’s-throw out-
side the hostel’s spacious grounds is a
public school, which allows them to come
home for lunch. The over-12’s go to
high-school, the choice of which is made
with the close co-operation of the
Education authorities, depending on
anticipation of how long the parents
expect to be at the hostel, and their
eventual place of residence.
A lmost all the denominations have
churches close to Bradfield Park, and
it is in these that many of the migrants,
especially the wives who don’t work
outside, make their chief contacts with
Australians. These churches also play
their part in promoting social occasions
among hostel members.
As well as the company’s Own activi-
ties in inducing get-togetherness among
migrant families, the migrants themselves
are encouraged to help themselves in this
respect. Thus they have a Recreation
Committee which co-ordinates activities
and raises funds to buy amenities. The
result of one effort was the acquisition
of a billiard-table. It all helps to take
the sharp edge off a life the impatiences
tend to crowd in upon.
Bradfield Park is probably as healthy
a locality as could have been selected.
It is high, gets what cooling breezes
blow in midsummer —and it is this
season that British migrants find the most
trying—there is plenty of bushland close
by, and it is within easy distance of the
Lane Cove River. That adds up to
conditions to suit any child, and for the
English this is a paradise. The only ones
who can get to the surfing beaches are
those who have their own cars. The
parents may have their own reserves
about the advantages to themselves of
starting life anew in a county so blessed
by Nature on practically every count,
for they still hold nostalgic ideas,
naturally enough, of the places from
which they came; but they all whole-
heartedly agree that the kids are “on
velvet.” '
The Christmas party for the children,
one of the really big events of the year,
is thrown by the co. The atmosphere
is a judicious mixture of English and
Australian. Punch and Judy disport to
the whistle of the wind through the
gums. Bright tunes are minted by a
team of musicians. It is at once a touch
of home and Of their new land for both
parents and children.
HThe migrants come from all over the
A British Isles. Shipbuilders from
Belfast, Tynesiders of similar skills,
cabinetmakers from Wigan, fitters from
Glasgow. Most of them up-anchored and
away because they thought there would
be better opportunities in this less-
crowded land, but overriding almost all
their thinking was the conviction that
this would be a better place in which to
bring their children up, because of the
golden beaches, the eternal sunshine, the
free and easy ways, the less-rigid class
stratification, and the abundance of food,
and especially of fruit.
It comes rather as a shock to an Aus-
tralian to hear his own butter dis-
paraged, but it is a fact that few migrants
will concede that it can be compared in
flavor to that of the Danes, from which
Britain gets its major supplies from the
Continent. But for the rest, the pro-
vender we produce finds favor with them.
As has been said here earlier, housing
is the paramount topic at the hostel, and
the failure of many of them to get homes
of their own is the chief cause of their
complaints. In a pretty wide cross-
section of wives interviewed at the hostel
every one of them voiced this grievance:
“We were brought out here, dumped in
the hostel and forgotten.” This tendency
to overstatement is natural enough. They
think not enough is being done to ensure
that in the foreseeable future their hous-
ing demands will be satisfied. Some of
them have been waiting for years for a
Housing Commission home, with the
prospect of obtaining one apparently as
far off as ever.
They quote the examples of the Dutch
and Italian Governments, whose finan-
cial instrumentalities are doing much to
make it easier for their nationals to
acquire their own homes here. They
ask, with some point, why the British
and Australian Governments cannot, in
concert, make some similar arrangements
to speed-up the permanent housing of
the British migrant, who should be
encouraged to come here above all
others so as to preserve the preponder-
ance of Anglo-Saxon blood. They get
narked when they hear of Italians and
Dutchmen leaving their hostels in only
a fraction of the time the British have
to be confined to theirs; not at those
nationals, but at the powers that be who,
according to them, have washed their
hands of the Britishers’ problems and left
them to stew in their own juice.
When you begin to probe you find
that, like every Australian couple who
also want to own their own home, they
are facing the one common barrier —
the excessive price of land, and it is in
this respect that the migrant at Bradfield
Park has the cards stacked against him.
It too often boils down to this: he
has been spoiled by his close contact
with affluence. He has only to walk a
few . hundred yards from the hostel
grounds and he is among streets of
houses each of which would be priced
from £7OOO to £IO,OOO, with spacious,
well-kept gardens. So he scouts around
and finds that the cost of a block of
land anywhere about that locality would
range from £ISOO to £2OOO. It is then
that he voices his complaint about the
awful prices of land, making it almost
impossible to realise the family’s dream.
What such migrants tend to overlook
is that these homes were bought by
people who mostly could afford them;
they are owned by professional men,
business executives, etc. Probably not
one of their owners would be earn-
ing less than £2OOO a year, mostly more.
But the migrants are chiefly tradesmen,
few of whom would bring home a pay-
envelope holding more than £24. Some
of them are process-workers whose
average would most likely be less than
£2O. Even with their wives working they
would be in a hopeless position trying
to save for such a home, for they are


committed to paying out nearly £lO a
week for their accommodation" and
board, in addition to the host of other
demands upon their purse, such as cloth-
ing, doctors’ and dentists’ fees, chemists
and everything else every other family
is up for.
Co it is that they fall between two stools.
They have acquired a taste for good
homes in a picked residential area which
they can’t afford, and they are extremely
reluctant to settle for anything further
down the social scale. They could pick
up a block of land in one of the outer
western suburbs, such as Blacktown, for
a far more reasonable sum, but they
won’t.
Not all of them think this way, of
course, but too many do ; and it makes
for discontent with their lot. Eventually
the realisation will come that they will
simply have to cut their coat according
to their cloth. A few I spoke to were
already wistfully kissing goodbye to those
early dreams and becoming reconciled to
homes more in keeping with their finan-
cial resources.
The influence of the Welfare State is
not entirely absent, either, but it is only
a small minority who expect everything
handed to them on a silver salver. The
great majority are hard workers, sincere
in their desire to do their best to make
a success of their life here. Some work
seven days a week, nearly working them-
selves into the ground to reduce the time
they will have to spend in the hostel
and get their families established in com-
fortable homes.
A few you will strike who have weird
ideas about domestic economy. ( One
couple who had hard things to say about
the time it took to get a home for your-
self revealed, under a tossed question,
that they spent £3 10s. a week on smokes!
Apparently the thought never crossed
their minds that by giving up smoking
for five years they could save about
£9OO, well over a quarter the cost of a
house. Very obviously they had taken
advantage of the cheapness of duty-free
cigarettes on the voyage to Australia and
simply continued the practice when they
arrived and cigarettes were only 3s. 3d.
a packet of 20. In England the same
packet costs about 4s. Bd. sterling, which
would be close to 6s. Australian.
Most of the migrants are in their 20’s
and 30’s, for the most part sensible and
practical ; and from battling hard on the
economic front at Home since they were
married have acquired pretty hard heads.
They know what they want and they are
going after it, and usually the working
agreement between husband and wife to
cut exes, to the bone so as to swell the
joint bank-account works out very well.
Here are a few reactions to life in the
hostel voiced by some of the wives (it
was a working day and most of their
men were away working).
Betty McNeil, who with her husband
George two years ago came from Inver-
ness, way up in the north of Scotland.
George is a carpenter. They have a boy
aged six and a baby boy—a fat, happy
one, too —of nine months. It was his
presence that explained her presence in
the hostel. It will be another 15 months
before she can park him in the kinder-
garten and join the work-fofce and
resume her money-earning which his
imminent birth interrupted. Nostalgia
for her native land is still strong, but
she’s reconciled to stopping here ; next
to her ambition to own her own home
is the hope of returning for a holiday,
she and George, to see both their sets
of parents. She wistfully acknowledges
that under the influence of his Australian
school cobbers her six-year-old is rapidly
having the edge rasped off the Caledonian
burr of his speech, and has resigned
herself to the inevitable fact that the
baby will never know how to say “It’s a
braw bricht moonlit nicht the nicht.”
lan and Winnie Norcross left their
Lancashire home 21 months ago to try
their luck here. Before her marriage
Winnie worked in a Lancashire cotton-
textile factory ; her husband is a builder’s
laborer. They are numbered among the
furious savers, but they both still can't
get used to the high prices here. For
them the going, on his wages, makes it
a bit tougher than for most.
Also from Lancashire are Robert and
Vera Pickup. A carpenter building-
foreman, Bob bought a block of land
at Windsor for £l9O, but finds that there
isn’t sufficient work offering in that area
to justify building his home there —at
least at present. So they and their four
children are biding their time until some-
thing crops up. They’ve been in the
hostel two years.
Mrs Shiach is the wife of a Glasgow
welder. In the 30 months they’ve been
here Sauchihall Street has become just
a memory, but they don’t mind that so
long as the Commission home they’ve
been waiting on for a year or two comes
to light in the next year or two.
The Lavers, Bert and Mary, left Bel-
fast in Northern Ireland three years
back, Bert bringing his tool-making
know-how. Mary works in the hostel
canteen. They have one child. They
are well on their way to achieving the
home-goal they aimed at when they first
arrived.
A prime example of tenacity paying off
is afforded by the Moffatts, also from
Belfast. They came here six years ago
—and that’s a long time to stay in a
hostel. But they now reckon it’s worth
it. They are among those who took a
fancy to the surrounding landscape, and
nothing would brook their getting a block
and building on it. They kept the grind-
stone busy, and in a few months they
will move into their brand-new home
only a few hundred yards from one
boundary of the hostel.
Sometimes you will strike contradictory
evidence which makes it difficult to
assess the facts of economics on the
English domestic front. One couple will
claim that cheap living in England, even
with low wages, comes out better than
the high Australian wage and the high
cost of living here. One couple who
attest to the far better conditions here
for the working man is Mrs Audrey
Bryant and her husband. She works
in the canteen, her husband in a factory
as a process-worker. They have two
children, one nine and one seven. When
they lived in Sussex he earned £ll 12s.
a week, out of which they paid £3 a
week rent for a council house. They just
couldn’t save. They’ve only been here
four months, but they’re already stacking
up the chips. They confidently expect
to have £2OOO in the bank in two years ;
and, judging by her level-headedness and
her unbounded enthusiasm, she'll have it
by then.
Do they like us? What they see of
us, yes. But they see too little. A few
hold the grievance that Australians are
rather reserved, stand-offish. But these
people are good material, and we would
do well to do our best to make them
feel at home in their new country. Some
of them may never really feel at home,
but their children will. In a few years’
time they will be indistinguishable from
the home-grown variety. They will
merge inextricably with our own Aus-
tralian youth and in another generation
will be all one.


PERSONAL
Third Man of
Australian Physics
AUSTRALIAN MEN OF
SCIENCE
First of a Series
/~\nly three Australian physicists have
seen their names pass into the uni-
versal language of science: Sir Mark
Oliphant, for his “white oliphant,” the
proton accelerator that he has been
working on in Canberra for 10 years ;
B. Y. Mills, for the “Mills cross,” a
device for reading radio-signals from the
stars ; and Stuart Butler, for the “Butler
stripping and pick-up curves,” a series
of mathematical calculations used by
physicists all over the world to predict
the outcome of nuclear reactions.
Professor Stuart Butler’s meteoric
career in science has been partly
obscured from the public behind the
dazzling path of Professor Harry Messel’s
comet, for he is Messel’s right-hand man
at Sydney University’s School of Physics,
as well as head, in his own right, of the
Department of Theoretical Physics.
Stuart Butler is only too happy to go
along with the jet-propelled Messel pro-
gramme for making Australia science-
conscious—but it seems about time that
Australia knew more about this South
Australian who, at only 34, has gained a
world-wide reputation in the field of
nuclear physics, a key discovery in man-
kind's brief existence.
A dark, energetic man of many and
diverse interests, Stuart Butler whizzes
through life with the speed of a neutron
round its nucleus, every now and then
flying off at a tangent and crashing into
some entirely new field.
At present he is completing prepara-
tions for the second Summer School of
Physics at the University, beginning on
January 9, in which secondary-school
science-teachers from all over Australia
will receive a short, high-pressure course
on “Space and the Atom” from world-
renowned scientists. These lectures will
be televised by Channel 9, and Butler
has just finished writing, with* Harry
Messel, a book based on the lectures for
distribution to schools and colleges.
He has also finished correcting the
page-proofs of the third volume of his
massive and definitive new textbook for
schools, “A Modern Introduction to
Physics.”
With this, the Summer School books
and the regular articles he does for the
“Daily Telegraph,” he has written two-
and-a-half-million words in the past two
years. At the same time he has built his
department into Australia’s crack
theoretical-physics group rated only
slightly below the department in Birming-
ham and some in the United States.
Professor Butler has under him a
reader in physics, three senior lec-
turers, a lecturer, a teaching-fellow and
eight post-graduate students working for
their doctorates.
In one way Butler’s theoretical group
is more fortunate than the other depart-
ments in the School of Physics, such as
Watson-Munro’s thermonuclear team, the
section working on cosmic-ray research,
or Mills’s new radio-astronomy estab-
lishment.
“’II7E don't need money for equipment,”
Butler explains happily, waving
round his small office, which contains
nothing but a desk, a bookshelf and a
blackboard. “All you really need is some-
thing to write with. We don’t have to
fight for money. What we get we can
spend on brains —which do cost money.”
Despite all the time required for the
administration of a department, and the
many other demands on a man of Butler’s
abilities, he has devised a means of
carrying on the line of thought on funda-
STUART BUTLER
Behind Messel’s Comet.
mental nuclear theory which has brought
him a stack of honors and scientific
publication all over the world.
“It’s a system I adopted from my old
German professor at Birmingham Uni-
versity,” he explains. “When I get an
idea about some line of reasoning to do
with nuclear reactions I spend a few
hours making a calculation of what I
think the result might be.
“This could run into „ fifty or sixty
pages of mathematics. Often the answer
will be ridiculous. Somewhere along the
line I will have gone wrong, because in
this field of mathematics you have to
make many approximations and assump-
tions, which may turn out to be false.
“But then I give this calculation to one
of my Ph.D. students to work on. He
follows it through, works out the approxi-
mations that I have made, checks the
assumptions and tries to make the whole
thing cut and dried.
“This may take him six months, or
even the entire two years he is here. It
may become the sole subject of his Ph.D.
thesis. Provided he works the whole
thing out in full, it does not matter
whether my original idea was right or
wrong. If it was right the student has
proved it. If it was wrong he has proved
it wrong. Either way, it is original work,
and he gets his Ph.D. When it is pub-
lished he may mention me in connection
with the original line of thought, and
that is all the reward I want.”
Stuart Butler knows that even there his
influence does not stop, because as his
Ph.D. students go out into jobs and high
academic positions they will carry on his
methods of intellectual approach—even
as he carries on the methods of Professor
Peierls in Birmingham.
CJtuart Butler’s own academic career
was spectacular. Born in Nara-
coorte, South Australia, in 1926, he was
at the university at 16, a Bachelor of
Science at 19 and a Master of Science at
21. After winning an overseas scholar-
ship from the Australian National Uni-
versity in Canberra in 1948 he got
married and left for England.
“The first week at the Department of
Theoretical Physics in Birmingham,” he
recalls, “I ran into people like Dirac, one
of the greatest abstract theoretical
physicists, and Pauli, the Swiss scientist,
both Nobel Prize winners. I had no
nuclear theory, no quantum mechanics.
I went home in despair and told Miriam
I didn’t understand a thing they were
talking about. If we’d had any money
we might have come home!”
Instead, Stuart Butler’s flair for pure
mathematics and intellectual concep-
tualisation blossomed. In two years he
produced the first new thought on nuclear
reactions since Nils Bohr’s original key-
stone theory of the compound nucleus
and what goes on inside it.
Butler published six papers on the
theory of “neutron stripping and pick-
up,” collected his Ph.D. from Birming-
ham and in 1951 took his growing family
—it now numbers two sons and a
daughter—to Cornell University’s pres-
tigious campus for two years.
In 1953, at 27, he returned to Australia
to become a Senior Research Fellow at


the Australian National University, under
Sir Mark Oliphant, after turning down
full professorships at the Universities of
Pennsylvania and Michigan.
He was hoping for a Chair or at least
a Readership at Canberra, when a
chance one-week meeting with a volatile
Canadian in 1952 paid off. At that time
Harry Messel, with a Ph.D. from Dublin,
was a mere lecturer in physics at Adel-
aide University. But then he was offered
the Chair of Physics at Sydney, with full
authority to turn the place upside down,
if necessary, in order to put it on the
map.
This, as need hardly be said, Messel
did. And one of his first appointments
was Stuart Butler. Soon afterwards
Butler was invited by Robert Oppen-
heimer, director of the Institute of
Advanced Studies at Princeton
Einstein’s last refuge—to spend a few
months there.
“No students, nobody wanting to see
you, nothing to do except think,” says
Butler. “And £5OO a month while you’re
doing it. It’s quite a place.”
In 1959 Butler and Sir Mark Oliphant
were the only two Australian scientists
invited by the Russians to their first
International Conference of Nuclear
Physicists at Kiev. And just recently
Butler heard that he had won the- first
“earned” Doctorate of Science ever
awarded by the Australian National
University.
“It’s a bit of a gamble,” he explains.
“It costs you fifty guineas to apply for
it —whether you get it or not. They take
your published scientific work and send it
to recognised authorities all over the
world. If even one of them considers
it inadequate, you fail.”
Stuart Butler had one advantage.
Hardly anybody knows as much about
neutron-stripping and pick-up as he does,
so the referees were rather in the posi-
tion of someone arguing with Einstein
about his unified-field theory.
At the end of January the Butlers take
their holiday. Professor Butler will
pilot them to Adelaide in his 2.4 Jaguar
at speeds approaching the century where
possible. (His wife, Miriam, drives as
fast as he does, but since he got the
Jaguar he hardly lets her near it. The
last time he did the rev.-counter broke —
Butler suspects because the needle was
forced off the dial.)
Stuart Butler’s only regret is that he
probably won’t get a chance at the trout
near Canberra. His favorite relaxation
is an occasional weekend on the Upper
Queanbeyan or' the Gudradigby with a
bunch of the boys from the Australian
National University. This usually in-
volves a lot of rum, a fair amount of
falling in and out of the water and,
sometimes, some fish.
Professor Stuart Butler’s achievements
notwithstanding, he finds it harder to
calculate the course of the wily rainbow
trout than to predict the behavior of a
sub-microscopic particle that no one has
ever seen and only a few people like
himself can even imagine.
In for
A Penny
“You know how the play ends with
A Higgins saying, ‘Eliza, where the
devil are my slippers?’ Well, a friend
of mine in Melbourne thinks Shaw made
a mistake and that Eliza should have had
the last line.” “What’s that?” we asked
cautiously. “ ‘Upstairs where you left
them and you can bloody well go and
get them! ’ ” Bunty Turner, who is a
BUNTY TURNER
Where Lerner and Loewe Went Wrong.
diminutive, blue-eyed double for Sabrina
—up to a point—burst into laughter.
“That’s the way Eliza feels at times,” she
said meaningfully.
“But it’s quite amazing what you hear
from the audience.” “Such as what?”
“Well, one night the stage director sitting
in the prompter’s box heard an old man
say indignantly, ‘But, my God, the whole
thing’s a straight pinch from Shaw.’ ”
What else, we asked grimly. “Oh, you
hear lots of things. The commonest
thing you hear is ‘I wonder if he gets
Eliza.’ ” Well, we protested, he doesn’t.
“Oh, yes, he does,” replied Miss Turner
determinedly. “Eliza just couldn’t marry
that drip Freddy Eynsford-Hill.” But
Shaw wrote an epilogue expressly saying
that Eliza did marry Eynsford-Hill, we
said.
“Oh, yes, I know all about that,
but ‘My Fair Lady’s’ different and Shaw
would have realised that. Eliza comes
back and that’s that. In fact I’m sure
Shaw would have approved of the show
except for one or two things. Do you
like the song ‘Show Me!’?” Very much,
we said incautiously. Miss Turner gave
a shriek of dismay. “Oh, God, you
don’t, do you? That song is the worst
in the show. That’s where Lerner and
Loewe went wrong. That is absolutely
not Eliza. It is utterly out of keeping
with Eliza. Can you imagine Eliza
brought up by Higgins to be a lady, to
watch her manners and behavior, sud-
denly charging up and down the street
after midnight, knocking down her boy-
friend and so on?”
On the grounds of in for a penny,
in for a pound, we said that we could
imagine it very well. After all, Eliza had
been brought up to be fairly uninhibited,
good girl though she was, and that she
must have got absolutely fed-up with the
sexless atmosphere surrounding Higgins
and Pickering. There, what did she think
of that? She looked doubtful. “I don’t
think so. It’s just not in keeping with
the rest of it. The girl who sings ‘I Could
Have Danced All Night’ and ‘Wouldn’t
It Be Luverly’ just couldn’t sing the other
song. Tell me, do you like Higgins’s
songs?” We disliked them without excep-
tion, we said firmly. “God, listen to
him,” Miss Turner said scornfully;
“Higgins has some of the best songs of
the show. Didn’t you like ‘l’ve Grown
Accustomed To Her Face’?” Loathed it,
we said, and paused for breath. Just to
change the subject we asked Miss Turner
where she came from and how she got
into the show.
i
“T come from the Mountains of
A Mourne, believe it or not,” she replied.
“Daddy was in the R.A.F. and finally
was posted to Ireland and settled down
there. My parents still live there. As
a matter of fact Mummy came out here
for a while. She hated it. The seasons
were all wrong. The flowering shrubs
and trees bored her and people wasted
food. Anyway, I got a start like most
musical-comedy stars in pantomime and
then in musical comedy. Then I got the
chance to come out here as Eliza. When
I arrived here I must say the press
shocked me a bit. What you don’t say
they make - up. They wanted to know
how much I made a week as Eliza
and I wouldn’t tell. So they said it
was £3OO a week, which it isn’t.”
Where did she get that fascinating
diamond watch in the form of a ring, we
asked. “There, that’s what I mean. I’m not
going to tell you.” Wasn’t she sick of
Eliza? “Not a bit. I love the part and
I’ll be playing it for quite a while yet.
Then I’ll go back to England. That’s
the place for me. Not that I don’t like
it here, but there’s more opportuinty for
what I want to do over there. I’d love
to play ‘lrma La Douce’ if they’d let
me.” What did she think of the Broad-
way “Lady” compared with her own?
“Well, I’ve seen Julie Andrews and Rex
Harrison in the original in London and
I must say I think Robin Bailey is a much
more thoughtful Higgins than Rex
Harrison. It’s hard to say about Julie.
She has a very small voice but it’s a very
pure one, and of course with all the
microphones and things it comes over
stronger than it really is. But I shouldn’t
compare, should I?”


POLITICAL POINTS
Tt is understood that Sydney’s Lord
Mayor Jensen is not now applying
for membership of the Real Estate
Institute.
• •
“Lady Chatterley’s Lover” was under
discussion in the House of Lords.
Viscount Gage quoted a fellow-peer who
had been asked whether he would
object to his daughter reading the book.
The f.-p. said he would have no objection,
but that he would object strongly to its
being read by his gamekeeper.
• •
Strange to think that at 66 R. G.
Menzies is the oldest Prime Minister
Australia has had. Runner-up was Ben
Chifley, 64 when his Government went
out of office in 1949. Bruce was only
46 when he was defeated ; so was Artie
Fadden. John Curtin died in harness
at 60 and Billy Hughes, longest-lived
of all the Prime Ministers, was 59 when
he handed over the job to Bruce. Most
people probably don’t realise that Joe
Lyons, father-figure in Federal politics
during the 1930’5, was only 59 when he
died in office.
• •
The vital part of an Afro-Asian motion
on Algeria—it proposed a U.N.-
conducted referendum on self-determina-
tion —was defeated on a deuce score
(40-all), with 16 nations abstaining.
Other sections dealing in general terms
with the rights of the Algerian people
and the responsibilities of U.N. were
carried by a big majority. With de
Gaulle’s own referendum scheduled for
January 6 most nations outside the Afro-
Asian group obviously decided to adopt
a wait-and-see policy.
• •
/~U>ugh Whitlam, Deputy-Leader of
the Federal A.L.P., is predicting that
Labor will control the Senate after the
next election. As 17 Government
Senators will have to face the electors
as against 12 Labor and one D.L.P.
Senator he could be right; the Govern-
ment will have to win most States to
keep control of the Senate. As regards
the Reps., Gough is on rather shakier
ground. On the strength of Higin-
botham he feels that Labor could “form
a Government now if given a chance.”
He says the people “want the Labor
party back in Parliament to get Aus-
tralia on the rails again.” But surely
Labor’s first job is to get itself back
on the rails again.
• •
This revaluation business! All
properties in Phillip Ward of the City
of Sydney are now being revalued, and
~. , , ,
next years municipal rates will be cal-
culated on the new valuations At the
present rate of 6jd. in the £ this would
mean that ratepayers would be billed
for another £lOO,OOO a year. Lest any
optinnstic ratepayer should get the idea
that the rate will be reduced, Lord Mayor
Jensen has got in first with an assurance
Sli^° n ;Vu He clai ™ that 016
£lOO,OOO will be needed to meet the in-
creased costs facing all departments.
Ratepayers in Phillip Ward are appa-
rently expected to find some consolation
in the fact that the other three wards
will be revalued in turn, one each year.
But as far as this year is concerned it
looks as if the intention is to make
Phillip ratepayers carry the baby of in-
creased costs for the whole city.
J
• •
.-pi .. ... t „
The question whether the term you
bloody galah was insulting cropped-up
m a North Melbourne court when a
detective claimed that in a pre-race
scramble through the betting-ring at the
local dog-races a country bookmaker
ran in front of him tripped on his foot,
stumbled, lost his balance, turned and
said, “You-trid to trip me, you bloody
galah, later repeating it.
In cross-examination the detective said
what he found insulting was the com-
bination of bloody” and “galah,”
whereupon the solicitor asked whether
being called an unbloodied galah would
be insulting, and the detective of course
had to say yes. The S.M. muttered that
al its worst it was a very trifling offence,
SO there was another wonderful result
for The Ring.
• •
Queensland has engaged a London
concern to conduct an economic survey
of the State. The survey will be carried
out by the Economist Intelligence Unit,
Ltd., which is associated with the London
“Economist” and it will cover raw
materials and their potential develop-
ment, the possibilities for new industries
and the expansion of markets in other
States and abroad.
The Nicklin-Morris- Government has
been perturbed for some time at Queens-
land’s apparent inability to attract new
industries on a scale commensurate with
its resources ; also at the relatively small
percentage of migrants choosing the State
as their new home.
• •
The new year seems likely to start as
the old one did—with Russia shouting
for immediate Summit-talks and the
Western Powers advocating preparatory
talks by Foreign Ministers. Khrushchev,
having wrecked last year’s conference
before it began, is now trying to hustle
Kennedy into an early meeting soon after
his inauguration. A meeting just for the,
sake of a meeting would be worse than
useless, as it would raise the hopes of
the world without any chance of ful-
filling them.
In resisting a too-early Summit,
America, Britain and France have had
their hands strengthened by last week’s
recommendation of the Nato Ministerial
Council that negotiations at lower levels
should precede a top-level meeting. In
contrast, a year ago all Europe was trying
to push the Heads of State to the con-
ference-table.
“Well, if you nosey coots MUST know, I Was looking at
Channel Two. Why?”


"Oritish migrants from rural areas are
** to be banned from coming to Aus-
tralia by air. This is a precaution against
foot-and-mouth disease, now rampant in
Britain and from which Australia has so
far been free. The disease affects stock
and must not be confused with the foot-
in-mouth complaint from which Arthur
Calwell suffers distressing attacks every
now and then.
• •
It was a toss-up who’d be president
of Corowa Shire Council this year.
Councillors Johnson and Brown tied
when it came to a vote so a coin was
tossed. Johnson won ; Brown was then
declared vice-president.
• •
Tom Playford has been in Melbourne
for talks with Vic. Premier Bolte on the
£9-million dam he proposes to build
across the Murray upstream from Ren-
mark. Investigations by S.A. Govern-
ment engineers and the River Murray
Commission have shown that there are
no serious engineering problems involved,
but the dam is expected to back-up water
well beyond the S.A. border, which might
mean claims for compensation for
inundated land along the Victorian and
N. S. Wales banks of the river. Fortu-
nately, the land likely to be affected is
of little value. Playford will later have
talks with N.S.W. Premier Heffron.
• •
Time lost through unauthorised stop-
pages on the Australian waterfront
in November totalled 309,211 man-hours
—five times the October total and the
highest figure for any month since
November, 1957. Melbourne watersiders
were responsible for about two-thirds of
the time lost (212,275 man-hours) —a con-
trast with the port’s record for the three
previous Novembers when time lost was
almost negligible. A single demarcation-
dispute which spread to every ship in
port accounted for most of the lost time.
Fremantle (50,054 man-hours) had the
second highest figures. Queensland ports
lost 31,260 man-hours, mainly through
politically-inspired stoppages in protests
against the Crimes Act. Sydney was
relatively trouble-free and no time at all
was lost in South Australian ports.
• •
IOiTTiNGLY, the new 40,000-ton passenger
A liner Oriana, due in Sydney on her
maiden voyage on Friday, will be the
first vessel to land passengers at Sydney’s
new shipping terminal, opened last week
by Deputy-Premier Renshaw. Situated
on the western side of Sydney Cove the
terminal consists of a 700-ft. wharf sur-
mounted by a customs-examination hall
and passengers and visitors’ hall. The
upper floors of the building are con-
nected with George Street by a three-
lane roadway on overbridges.
• •
N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation is
demanding the removal of the Education
Department from the jurisdiction of the
Public Service Board and the establish-
ment of an Education Commission to
formulate and administer education
policy, including the control of teachers
and other staff. It suggests that the
commission should consist of two mem-
bers appointed by the federation ; two
appointed by the Government; a chair-
man “acceptable to both parties.” The
Public Service Board’s comment on the
proposal is that it is inspired by the
federation’s desire to dominate decisions
on education and that such a commis-
sion would enable teachers to write their
own cheque in terms ,of pay and
conditions.
• •
F. M. Dowling. Victorian secretary of
the D.L.P., has had something to say
on exchange of preferences with the
A.L.P. in the next Senate election. A.L.P.
prefs. would be useless to the D.L.P., he
says, because in the Senate count Liberal
preferences would be distributed before
the A.L.P. He’s not quite right. It
happened that way in 1958 when the
surplus votes of Senator Hannan, the
third Liberal to be elected, went almost
entirely to the D.L.P. man. But in 1955,
when Senator McManus (D.L.P.) filled
the fifth vacancy, Cormack (L.C.P.) still
had 148,912 votes to his credit and Sand-
ford (A.L.P.) had only 37,155. If
McManus had still been short of a quota
it would have been Sandford who would
have been eliminated to decide the final
seat.
• •
A fter what must have been its most
disunited session the United Nations
Assembly has gone into recess until
March. The session, which began with
Khrushchev throwing his weight and his
slippers about, closed with Secretary-
General Hammarskjoeld talking gloomily
of the future. He had good reason for
gloom. A series of proposals for deal-
ing with the mess in the Congo had pro-
duced only a succession of deadlocks, and
although the Assembly did agree that the
£27-million bill of costs for the opening
months of U.N.’s operations in the
Congo should be binding on all members
Russia and its satellites continued to
protest that they wouldn’t pay a rouble.
• •
Despite assurances given by President
Soekarno and Foreign Minister Suban-
drio that Indonesia would never resort
to force over the West New Guinea issue
its leaders continue to talk bellicosely
at every opportunity. Last week Dr
Sastraomidjojo, former representative at
U.N., criticised Prime Minister Menzies’
recent statement on New Guinea and
said that the question was not one of
legality “because the people of West
Irian themselves have risen up against
the Dutch imperialists and colonialists.
Nor is it an issue whether the Dutch
will attack Indonesia. The forceful occu-
pation of West Irian, which is Indonesian
territory, is in itself an act of aggression.”
General Nasution, Indonesian Army
chief, has been speaking in similar vein.
He claims that “popular uprisings” are
increasing in Dutch New Guinea and
that the Dutch Government has started
a “reign of terror.” Nasution says that
Indonesia will “meet force with force,”
and will “meet the Dutch on all fields,
politically, economically and even
militarily.”
U.N. teams which have reported on
Dutch New Guinea have made no
mention of reigns of terror or of popu-
lar uprisings and there is no doubt that
the Dutch are in earnest in preparing
the native people for independence. In-
donesian plans for “West Irian” don’t
envisage independence or self-determina-
tion. They begin and end with the propo-
sition that the territory is part of
Indonesia.
• •
N.S.W. Opposition-Leader Askin is
warning electors not to imagine that
abolition of the Legislative Council will
mean a cheaper Parliament. M.L.Cs. are
paid an allowance of £5OO a year, but no
M.L.A. receives less than £3OOO, and
“Labor has made no secret of its inten-
tion to increase the number of Assembly
seats if a referendum to abolish the
Upper House is carried.” At present the
Council is in a position to block any
move to increase the size of the Assembly,
but if it is abolished the “creation of
only a few additional seats in the
Assembly would wipe out the financial
gain from the abolition.”
Askin also claims that the disap-
pearance of the Legislative Council
would give the Government a free hand
to go ahead with long-held plans for
large-scale local-government amalgama-
tions.
• •
Who votes for the D.L.P. and follows
the party ticket so faithfully? Catholics,
even those close to the Church in Mel-
bourne, say they don’t because they
resent the intrusion of Archbishop
Mannix and Bishop Fox in politics.
Chipp, the Liberal winner in Higin-
botham, got 83 per cent, of the higher
D.L.P. vote to give him his photo-finish
win, and he would have got more than
that percentage if local winds hadn’t
been blowing against the Liberals.
• •
Roma (Q.) expects to have natural gas
flowing into its power-station within three
months. Pipe, manufactured at New-
castle, should be ready for laying in
January and it is planned to lay the
four-and-a-half mile pipeline at the rate
of 1000 ft. a day.
• •
TfRAFFic-EXPERTS from all States have
agreed on a uniform code of road-
signs, though that’s only a beginning—
Government action in every State is
necessary before the new code can be
universally adopted. Queensland will
shortly issue a manual incorporating the
new signs, which will be binding on all
local authorities, the Main Roads Board
and the Railways ; N. S. Wales has begun
to install the signs on several key roads.
Motorists travelling from one State to
another will welcome uniform signs.
They’d appreciate uniform traffic-laws
even more, but State Governments have
a funny habit of thinking their own
rules are best. It has taken eight years
to reach agreement on road-signs. By
the time they agree on traffic-laws road-
transport will probably have taken to
the air.


WHERE'S OTTO?
Short Story
by
JACK LUSBY
The club occupied a whole floor
of the building. About a quarter
of the space was given to billiard-
tables and offices. The rest was
an expanse of large tables with chairs
bounded on two sides by long bars, one
for food and the other for drinks.
It was early evening and sultry. Coats
hung on the backs of chairs around
crowded tables and large fans swirled
the smoke. White-jacketed stewards
were busy. There was a deep rumble
of talk and a general air of relaxation.
Behind the food-bar stood the new
chef, Otto. Immaculate in snowy shirt
and apron, he was serving oyster soup
and plates of cold meat and salad. A
tall fellow with close-cropped hair gone
prematurely grey, a high nose and sad
grey eyes. The neat, dark woman beside
Otto was his wife. She wore a flaring
floral frock, flashed sharp brown eyes
and a big smile at the customers, and
already they were calling her Marie.
Nominally for working-men, the club
attracted a cross-section of the city.
Sitting around my table were Tich the
cabbie, MacCann who travelled for an
oil-company, Borg who did police rounds
for the morning “Post-Telegraph” and,
in his regular place at the head of the
long table, Hooper. Like Borg, I worked
on the morning paper.
You couldn’t help spotting Hooper. He
was huge, fat and untidy. Rolls of
flesh made blue slits of his eyes and
cushioned his head. Brown hair lay in
close waves and at one time his nose had
been broken. Hard to imagine him now
as an infantryman, but he’d been
machine-gunned almost fatally in Libya.
What you could believe was MacCann’s
description of him as the unlikeliest-
looking soldier in the army. Hooper
was a shrewd and sometimes witty
talker, laughed easily and reigned over
that table at the club with a presidential
air. He was a clerk in a Government
department.
“Get you a beer?” Hooper was saying
to MacCann. He said it three times
before MacCann answered with a grunt.
“What the hell does that mean?”
“Okay, Tubby—and a rum chaser,”
MacCann said sourly. Hooper got to
his feet ponderously and lumbered away.
“Earache or home trouble?” Borg
asked MacCann.
“It’s not earache.”
“Take her some flowers.”
“I’d be competing with Hooper,” Mac-
Cann spoke with surprising bitterness.
He was a breezy type, perpetually
amused. He’d known Hooper a long
time. Hooper was single and spent a
lot of time at MacCann’s place.
TTooper loomed-up and put the drinks
on the table with great care. His
right hand was almost useless and he
always shook hands with his left. Result
of those machine-gun bullets. “There
you are, Happy MacCann,” he said.
MacCann drank quickly and asked
me for a hit at billiards.
“Why doesn’t that big balloon get
a girl of his own and get married?” he
said between shots. “Surely someone’d
have him.” MacCann was feeling some-
thing strongly.
“Hooper? He doesn’t strike me as
being the slightest bit interested.
Awkward bloke to be married to.”
“He’ll improve soon. Inherits three
farms and a garage when his old man
goes. All good property.”
“Spread the news,” I said. “Someone
might snatch him.”
“Here’s hoping,” MacCann said. “I’ve
known him too long to want to be real
rude. Been welcome at our place for
years. But all of a sudden he seems to
be crowding us.”
“How crowding?”
“Too often the presents for Helen.
Flowers, books. Pretty erotic books A
Too often the cabload of grog. It’s a
campaign! Too often hanging on till
all hours. Beginning to feel entitled
to share all our discussions, slant our
decisions. Sowing the odd seed of dis-
sension. Just moving in like a wedge.”
“Certainly seems to need a home of
his own,” I said.
“No! Someone else’s home. Some-
one else’s wife for an audience. And
Helen seems to lap it up. Sorry for him
perhaps. It’s a headache.”
“Well, I’m glad it’s your headache.
I’m afraid you’ll have to be rude.”
“Yes,” MacCann said.
finished our hundred-up and I
moved to the food counter. Marie
was saying, “Otto! Look at you!” and
pointing at his spotless apron. Spotless?
There was one small soup-mark.
“Ah, yess, Marie!” Otto exclaimed
and strode through some swing-doors.
He came back wearing a clean apron.
I thought, she is fussy.
“Like it here, Otto?” I said over my
salad.
“Yess, ver’ goot.” He said he’d left
Germany in pre-Hitler days and had
gradually cooked his way round the
world to Australia. He’d married Marie
in New Zealand. This with a grin that
showed he was proud of her.
Leaving to finish my work I noticed
Hooper still presiding at the table like
a sweating Buddha. MacCann had
gone.
It seemed that MacCann had been
rude. In the following weeks Hooper
drank a lot, stayed glued to the club at
night. His pudgy face sometimes had
a purplish tinge. His clothes became, if
anything, untidier, marked with beer and
cigarette ash. A couple of times I took
him to our beach shack for weekend
fishing. Fishing bored him quickly, but
we got along well enough. Hooper
could be amusing for Mollie and the
kids, but at that time he liked to sloven
in the little beach pub, yarning, or to
lie on his bunk reading with a rum
within reach. Nevertheless he looked
better on thos£ Mondays.
We had a house on the riverbank,
on the outskirts of the city, and Hooper
turned up there one night in a taxi.
He squashed down in a deckchair on
the verandah and had a few rums and
talked to Mollie and me till midnight.
A lot of the talk was on books and
poetry, topics favored by the well-read
Hooper. A lot, with a touch of insight
and malice, was about people. He
phoned a cab and went off in good
humor.
There were more visits. Sometimes
Hooper arrived on weekend afternoons
and talked on till late at night. He
began bringing books for Mollie to read.
One of them reminded me of Mac-
Cann’s talk over the billiard-table. It
dealt with a triangular design for living
in a serious way. Mollie laughed and
said, “Fancy Hooper!”
IV/jTollie was developing a serious ill*
ness and her doctor, Hal Stevens,
often lingered for a yarn. Hal encouraged
Hooper to talk and seemed to study him
intently. You could almost see the
microscope. One night Hal began to
talk about the balloon-like author
Alexander Woollcott, but Hooper
wouldn’t have the other fat man at the
party. “A clever slug!” he said.
“Complex and unnatural!”


“Surround me with fat men,” Mollie
quoted unhelpfully. “Which king said
that?”
“One whose imagination didn’t run to
a dozen Woollcotts,” Hal said.
“Or a dozen Hoopers,” said Hooper
stonily.
He left early.
“What’s up with him ?” Mollie asked.
“Hal needled him,” I said.
“Nonsense. He’s jealous,” Hal
announced.
“How d’you mean, jealous?” I asked.
“Jealous of me,” Hal said. “He’d like
to be the only intruder. The doctor’s
unfair competition.”
We were driving home from the beach
one Sunday in our old roadster
when I pointed out the guest-house
where Hooper lived.
“Care to meet Hooper at home?” I
asked Mollie.
“Yes —let’s be a nuisance!”
We left two small daughters babbling
in the dicky-seat and went in, found
Hooper’s door and knocked.
There was a creaking of bedsprings
and some heavy shuffling and the door
swung open. Hooper was unshaven and
held a book in one hand. Shirt and
slacks bulged hugely over his paunch
and he was barefooted. He completely
filled the doorway. He stepped back
and waved the book toward the interior
in a vast stagey gesture.
“Come in, come in. Sit on the bed,
Mollie ; I’ll clear the decks a bit.”
A couple of chairs were piled with
books and magazines. The table looked
like a junkyard. On a dressing-table a
gin-bottle stood like a lighthouse in a
surf of letters, rent receipts and the like.
A radio crooned on the floor. A toaster,
electric-jug and small hotplate cluttered
one corner and electric-leads drooped
from the ceiling.
Hooper had cleared the chairs, and I.
sat down.
“Pretty snug,” I said.
“Snug and self-contained,” said
Hooper with a chuckle that shook him
like a jelly and threatened the shirt and
trousers. “Glad you looked in. Care
for a drink? I’ll wash some glasses.”
He found glasses and eased himself
out of the room.
“Neat but not gaudy,” I said. “Why
the hell are we here?”
“Your suggestion and I was curious.
But what a clutter!”
“What’s wrong with a bit of clutter?
Half his luck!”
“You just try it!”
“I do.”
“I know.”
Hooper padded back, poured drinks,
and settled carefully on a chair. 1
looked at the book he’d been reading.
“War stuff,” I said.
“Yeah,” he wheezed. “About a queer
show my mob took part in at Jiarabub.
Against Vichy French and Senussi.”
“Where you were hit?”
“No, that was near Tobruk.”
He talked about the war for a while
and pulled out some old photographs.
Then he produced a neat little pistola
Beretta and handed it over for Mollie
to see.
'‘Bang! Bang!” she cried, sweeping
the gun round the room, and “Bang!”
again as she pointed it out the window.
“That was the witness!”
“Nice work,” I said taking the gun
away from her. I was pretty shaken to
find it oiled and loaded.
“Never,” I told Hooper, “never take a
chance like that with an actressy ferrjale!
What’s the idea?”
I emptied the gun for present safety.
“Aw, I just like things to be in work-
ing order.” He held the little gun affec-
tionately in his paw, fondling it, before
putting it away.
I managed to install a housekeeper
for the children and Mollie went to hos-
pital for a longish spell. I drove there
pretty well every night after work.
Some nights I’d pick up a grilled flounder
in a dish from old Peter at the Greek
cafe and take it along. Sometimes oysters
or a crab. Mollie liked seafood.
The club was near the newspaper
office, and I usually ate at Otto’s food
counter before going to the hospital.
Early in this routine Hooper asked to
come along. He squeezed into the car
several nights with flowers and books in
evidence.
One night he was at the hospital long
before me, and had brought oysters
and stout. He treated my intrusion
tolerantly enough, while Mollie flashed a
what-can-I-do? look. I gave my supper
offering to a nurse and sat down to make
the best of it. Hooper stayed till we were
both ushered out.
After that it became usual to find him
there hunched bearlike over the bedside
when I arrived. My working hours
made this easy for him. It began to seem
that I was visiting Hooper in hospital.
No private confab was possible. Not
even about tonsils. I was telling Mollie
that Hal wanted young Jeannie’s to come
out, but not while half the kids in town
had gastric ’flu . . . Lowered resistance,
and so on.
“Nonsense!” Hooper decided. “We’ll
have ’em out now! ”
Then came the night of his last hos-
pital visit. I arrived after working later
than usual to find Hooper smugly in
attendance, and Mollie like ice. All the
ice was pointing at me. It was an un-
comfortable hour or so.
At leaving-time I made an excuse and
went back to the bedside to ask ques-
tions. At first clammy silence. Then:
“You left the office early ! Hooper saw
you! You don't care about me lying
here”
With the patient reassured and happy
again I went out after Hooper. He
behaved like a little boy caught stealing
jam and rode back to town in sullen
silence.
With Hooper in check, life seemed
plain sailing. Now that I saw him
only at the club I realised how much of
my life he’d taken up. And I under-
stood MacCann’s outburst at the billiard-
table.
Mollie was home again, and it seemed
strange not to hear the heavy footsteps
of Hooper on the verandah, to spend
Hooperless evenings and to get to bed
early. Hal Stevens, the doctor, swore he
missed Hooper—he was something to
argue with.
At the big club Hooper reigned as
usual over the table and had drifted into
a closer acquaintance with Borg.
Borg was a small man. His hard-bitten
face had an eagle-fierceness and a quick
grin. When not reporting accidents and
crime for the paper, he was much. given
to sailing. He seemed amused by
Hooper and a couple of times took the
big fellow round the city all night on
police rounds.
“How about taking me sailing?”
Hooper asked him once.
“You know how big our boats are?”
Borg said incredulously, looking Hooper
up and down.
“D’you take Nita with you?”
“Every time! But she’s small and as
handy as a man.”
Nita was Borg’s girl-friend of such
long standing as to give rise to gentle


badinage. I’d been to Borg’s place and
met her. She was about 30, and mighty
neat and good-looking. I took this
opportunity to ask Borg to my place for
Friday evening. Neither of us worked
on Saturday.
“Shall I bring Nita?”
“Certainly.”
“Good,” Mollie said later. “We’ve
been too quiet. Ask somebody else.”
“Hooper?” I said for a joke.
“Anything for variety. He can’t do
any harm.”
TTal Stevens turned up as well as
Borg, Nita and Hooper. Yvonne,
,<a bright type from next-door, came in.
Kay the editor, who liked parties,
promised to look in later. It was a
stifling night, so we soon had our coats
off and things began well.
General chatter about nothing in par-
ticular, drinks, a bit of laughter. Yvonne
turned-on some music and she, Hal,
Mollie and Borg danced on the verandah
for a while till the heat stopped them.
Then Yvonne had Borg in a corner and
was listening, all eyes and attention. She
was an expert listener. He was probably
talking about sailing.
Hooper was laughing like a jelly at
something he’d told Nita. Hal was ask-
ing Mollie to pose for a portrait. We’d
developed this into a three-cornered dis-
cussion when Kay came in. He knew
Hal and Borg so I introduced him to
the others and got him a drink.
This gave me time to notice that
Hooper was still keeping Nita very
interested while Borg talked desultorily
with Yvonne.
At supper-time Hooper continued to
hold the floor with Nita while Borg
hovered on the outskirts, not saying much
at all. I thought Nita was a little fool
not to break it up.
The storm which had been threatening
all night suddenly cracked deafeningly,
and as we walked onto the verandah to
watch the river all lit up Hooper clumsily
took Nita’s arm. The rain soon drove
us back. It came sloshing off the roof
in bucketfuls.
Inside, even the storm didn’t drown
the angry voices. Nita and Borg had
gone into the kitchen. When they came
back a rift was pretty obvious.
TT was getting late and people began to
talk of going home.
“It’s pretty bad outside,” Mollie said.
“Can we put somebody up for the
night? We’ve room for a couple.”
“I’ll stay,” said Nita immediately.
“If you’ve got a solid bunk I’ll stay,
too,” said Hooper.
So that was that. Borg looked upset,
said gruff goodbyes and left. I gave
Yvonne an umbrella and raincoat —she
only had to go next door, and the others
sloshed out to their cars and were gone.
Inside we showed Nita and Hooper
their rooms, and Mollie got Nita some-
thing to sleep in.
“My pyjamas won’t be any good to
you,” I told Hooper. “D’you mind?”
“Not a bit, Sleep in my undies. I’ll
have a nightcap and sit up and smoke
for a while.” He seemed inclined to sit
up and talk for a while, but nobody was
interested. Least of all Nita. We turned
in and left him to it.
In the morning I got up first and
made coffee. When I took a cup into
Nita’s room she was gone. Bed all
rumpled, nightgown folded on pillow.
No Nita. I called around the house for
her. No Nita. I let that go for the
moment and carried on with the coffee.
I took some in to Hooper, and he looked
up at me with a face that had been
through a mangle. All bruised and puffed
up and a black eye.
“What the hell’s been happening here?”
“Grnnfh—tell you later.”
"You’d better tell me now!”
“Borg came back and we had a row.
Nita’s gone with him.”
“And I slept through all this?”
“Must have. Another storm at the
time. Didn’t make much noise, anyway.
No talking. Thanks for the coffee.”
And as far as Hooper was concerned
the matter was closed.
Borg told me more about it. It was
a weird affair. First Borg turning his car
and driving back across the city, suddenly
determined not to sleep on things. Find-
ing Hooper still awake and prowling
about with a lit cigarette in the lounge-
room. Borg saying, “Looking for Nita?”
and fighting silently in the dark. A
strange, wordless fight, lit only by light-
ning.
Only Nita had heard them, and she
had opened her door and blazed light on
the scene. “Get dressed. We’re going!”
Borg had gasped at her in exhaustion.
Borg’s face, like Hooper’s, showed
signs of conflict.
Hooper avoided the club for several
nights. Borg was there with what seemed
like a new glint in his eye. He had a
wedding to announce. When the general
astonishment subsided he shocked those
who knew about Nita by describing it
as “ a whirlwind affair.”
VIfHEN Hooper again turned-up at the
TT table he showed signs of glumness.
His affiairs were not going well. He
took to lumbering across to the food-
bar and, over a plate of something, hav-
ing long talks with Otto and Marie.
Sometimes, now, Otto came to the table
and sat down for a beer with us. And
sometimes Hooper carried a beer across
to Marie. Otto was quite convivial on
these occasions and a good, easy talker.
He had some hearable stories about his
wanderings as a cook. One night Hooper
had just had a meal and was praising
the cooking.
“Ah, but Marie iss the real cook!”
said Otto. “You must come home and
have a dinner with us, Hooper. On a
Sunday when the club iss closed.”
“I’ll certainly do that,” said Hooper.
“Thank you, Otto.”
Some time after this I noticed a change
in Hooper. His clothing took a decided
turn for the better. He had his suits
pressed occasionally. His neckties were
neat and his shirts clean. His shaving
improved. Hints from the meticulous
Marie, who refused to have one spot of
soup on Otto’s immaculate aprons? It
seemed very likely. And he wasn’t
drinking so much.
He made a surprise call on us one night.
Mollie hadn't seen him since the morn-
ing after the fight and her eyes boggled
at the change.
“What’s come over you, Hooper?” she
gasped.
“Come over me?” he blustered. “What
d’you mean?”
But you could see he was pleased. He
only stayed a couple of hours that night.
I think, he came to show Mollie the new
Hooper.
Come weeks later Otto caught my eye
and beckoned me over to one end
of the food-bar. Otto looked worried.
“Please, I want to talk with you,” he
said. “You know Hooper well I think?”
“I know him pretty well.”
“Then what iss he like? What iss
he really like—with women?”
“I don’t think he has much to do with
them.” I didn’t like this one little bit.
“You took him home to your wife?
Please, this iss important.”
“Yes, I took him home.”
“He went many times?”
“Yes.”
“And was everything all right—all the
time?”
“No. We quarrelled.” I owed Otto
that much.
“Ah! You quarrel! He came too
many times? He came when you are
away perhaps? He made trouble?”
“We just quarrelled, Otto. I can’t go


into the whys and wherefores. If you’re
worried, don’t ask him any more. You’d
do that with anyone else.”
“It iss not so easy. But thank you.
You have helped me.”
Otto went back to his customers.
"Uooper came to my place on one more
night. He wore a new suit, his shoes
gleamed and there was a shine on his
face. Smugness oozed out of him. He
looked like a huge Walt Disney tomcat.
He’d brought a bottle of champagne and
chocolates for the kids.
This was the night that Otto phoned
me. I picked up the phone and listened
for a few moments before I could make
out the words. Otto’s voice was thick
with fury.
“Iss Hooper with you?”
Something prompted me to say “No.”
“I haff looked for him everyvhere!
I am told he iss going to your place. No?”
“No, Otto. He’s not here.”
“He iss a bloody bad man! I vill find
him and I vill gut him vith my kitchen
knife! Gootbye!” Otto’s almost per-
fect English had thickened a bit.
I got Hooper alone and passed all
this on to him. His face hardened with
an entirely new look of determination.
“He’s not going to scare me now.”
“Why ‘now’?” I asked him.
“Never mind that. Look, I've got
holidays due. I’ll leave town tomorrow.
All this will blow over. If I do meet
him with his carving - knife I’ll have
my little gun, my pistola Beretta.
Remember it?”
“I’ll say I remember it. You’re a fool
to keep that thing.”
“You never know.”
Sure enough, Hooper was missing from
his chair at the head of the table next
night. I felt relieved. Until I had a
good look at Otto. What an Otto! He
was beside himself. He saw me and
beckoned furiously.
“Marie iss gone !”
“Marie!”
“Yess! All day I have waited. She
iss to go shopping this morning while
I go to the markets, you understand?
She iss not here to help at lunchtime.
She iss not here now!”
“Anything may have happened. It’s
too soon to panic.”
“I panic all right! Where iss Hooper?
Tell me! Where iss he?”
“He’s gone on holidays. I don't know
where.”
“Somebody will know. I will ask
everybody. The men who work with
him. 1 will find Hopper if it kills me!”
T got a beer and sat down and wondered
A about Hooper. Everything pointed
to the fact that he had at last inherited
the garage and three farms mentioned
by MacCann. The new clothing. The
new air about him. Would this have
made him attractive enough? Was there
something queer about Marie herself?
Something wrong with Otto? They’d
seemed to get along well enough. I knew
one thing for certain ; there would be vio-
lence when Otto found Hooper. Violence
was far too mild a word. There’d be
murder.
And Otto was trying hard to find
Hooper. He was cornering man after
man in the club and questioning him.
He'd have to strike oil soon. Several
members worked with Hooper and were
pretty sure to know something.
The following night the food-bar was
closed. No sign of Otto. I asked the
manager about him.
“Otto’s gone crazy!” he said. “Late
last night he suddenly shut-up shop with-
out a word and went off like a rocket.
First Marie, then Otto. Can’t make ’em
out. I’ll have to advertise for new people.”
A month went by and Otto hadn’t
returned and I hadn’t seen Hooper.
People had stopped guessing about Otto’s
departure. I’d put the whole thing out
of my mind. Then my job took me
to another city.
A year later I was brought back and,
after a few days getting settled, I
wandered into the club. I looked idly
around for familiar faces and my eyes
went to the old table.
There at the head of the old table
sat Hooper! As smoothly dressed as
his bulk would allow, looking scrubbed
and polished—the same Hooper! I went
across and sat down and he greeted
me like a long lost brother. A glow of
health sat upon Hooper. I could remem-
ber him, dirty, unshaven and half-dressed,
slumped in a cluttered room fondling the
only well-cared-for thing he had, the
souvenir gun. Hooper had pushed a
beer in front of me and was talking.
“What are you doing tonight?”
“I’m free tonight. Why?”
“Because now you must come to my
house for dinner! I’ll phone home and
say you’re coming.”
Before we left Hooper went to a
mirror and adjusted his tie and ran a
comb through his hair. Stooping—a
difficult thing for him —he flicked a hand-
kerchief over his shoes. He guided me
to a car parked nearby. A good car. As
he drove out of the city I said, “I had
no idea you had a house.”
“I've got more than that. There’s a
surprise for you, my boy! ”
At the house we walked up some broad
steps onto a verandah. Hooper opened
the door and ushered me in. And there,
in a flaring floral frock and with the
sharp brown eyes and big smile, stood
Hooper’s surprise for me: Marie!
As we sat down and talked Marie
looked as self-satisfied as a cat with
cream. Hooper was so proud of every-
thing, he shone with it. He’d certainly
come a long way. The house was
spacious and tastefully furnished. We sat
down to a splendid dinner. Otto had
certainly not exaggerated Marie’s cooking.
But I’m still asking myself the question
that fairly screamed at me all that
evening:
Where’s Ottol
THE HOLLIDAYS.
“... and for myself a dry sherry and an air-gun for the birds.”


CRIME & BANDITRY
DISTRESS & PERPLEXITY
will continue to increase
UNTIL THE BISHOPS OPEN
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT’S BOX
Of Sealed Writings
What the Bible says about the Box and the Bishops:
“And the temple of God was opened . . . and there
was seen ... the Ark (Chest or Box) of His Testament
(or Will).”
“And round about the Throne were four-and-twen-ty
. . . Elders (Bishops) sitting . . . (and they) fall down . . .
and cast their crowns (their wisdom) before the Throne.”
Rev. xi, 19: iv, 4, 10.
THE PANACEA SOCIETY
BEDFORD, ENGLAND
In Joanna Southcott's Box
By H. A. LINDSAY
At intervals of a few years advertise-
ments appear in the newspapers
and periodicals of Britain stating
that the world's troubles will never,
be solved “until the Bishops open
Joanna Southcott’s Box of Sealed
Writings.” They are inserted, at con-
siderable expense, by the Panacea Society
whose headquarters are in the manufac-
turing town of Bedford.
Who was Joanna Southcott? Why
isn’t her mysterious box opened?
The daughter of a Devonshire farmer,
born in 1750, she grew up to be a devout
churchgoer. She worked as a housemaid
and a shop assistant. At the age of 42
she claimed to be the woman mentioned
in the twelfth chapter of the Book of
Revelation, described by Saint John as
“clothed with the sun, the moon under
her feet and upon her head a crown of
twelve stars... .She brought forth a man-
child who was to rule all nations with a
rod of iron.”
Joanna then came to London and
started to “seal the 144,000 elect,”
guaranteeing all who came forward a
front seat in Heaven. She also made
prophecies, some of which were fulfilled.
Among her many converts were three
leading clergymen. To counter the
charge that she had written her
prophecies after the events, she began
to seal the papers bearing new ones,
inscribing the date when they were made
and storing them in a deed-box.
She gave up “sealing Jhe elect” in
1808 after one of those chosen, Mary
Bateman, had been hanged for murder.
In 1814, at the age of 64, Joanna
announced that, as the result of an
immaculate ' conception, she was preg-
nant and would give birth to a new
Messiah.
Her 100,000 followers were wildly
excited, for in spite of her age she was
exhibiting all the outward signs of
pregnancy. They had an elaborate satin-
wood cradle prepared at a cost of £2OO
—equivalent to ten times that sum in
the money values of today—and the
equally elaborate layette included £lOO
worth of silver spoons. Then Joanna
died and a post-mortem showed no
evidence of pregnancy.
Modern medical science knows the
condition as “false pregnancy.” It is
found in women whose longing for a
child induces all the symptoms of being
enceinte, including the swollen abdomen.
By all the precedents of freak religions,
this fiasco should have resulted in the
collapse of the Southcottian sect —but
most of the followers were not dis-
illusioned. One of them, Mrs Essam,
left a large sum to be spent on publishing
“the Sacred Writings of Joanna South-
cott.” The sealed deed-box containing
the' prophecies was guarded with great
care, for in her last testament Joanna
had stipulated that it was not to be
opened until there was a great crisis in
world affairs, and then only in the
presence of 24 bishops, who were to
examine its contents and pass judgment
on them.
There are still an astonishing number
of people in the world who are con-
vinced that Joanna Southcott was a
divinely inspired prophet. We have some
in Australia and there are others in New
Zealand. They call themselves the
“Panacea Society,” in the belief that their
tenets can cure all the ills of the world,
if only people would apply them. That
box is still at their headquarters in
Britain, its seals intact.
■fITHY hasn’t it been opened? 156 years
hawe gone by since Joanna died and
the world has faced several crises in that
time. Today we have the worst of all
in the threat of nuclear warfare. The
Panacea Society claims that the Church
of England has consistently refused to
comply with the conditions laid down by
Joanna, but this is contrary to the facts.
In 1918 Bishop Boyd Carpenter
obtained a promise from 23 other
governors of dioceses to be present and
the Dean of Westminster gave a pledge
to guard the box if it was entrusted to
him and to see that all conditions were
observed when it was opened in the
presence of the stipulated number of
bishops—but the Panacea Society found
fault with the arrangements and nothing
was done.
Anyone acquainted with the adminis-
tration of the Church of England will
know that the conditions could be
observed quite easily. Every ten years,
at the Lambeth Conference, over 300
bishops meet to discuss ecclesiastical
affairs. Why doesn’t the Panacea Society
take advantage of this gathering of
church dignitaries?
One bishop with whom I discussed it,
before he left Australia to attend the
1948 Lambeth Conference, said: “We’d
do it, if only to end this perpetual
nuisance about that box. But every time
the Panacea Society raises fresh objec-
tions to our offer.” He gave the weary
smile of one who is familiar with the
mental quirks of religious cranks.
“My private opinion is that opening
Joanna’s box is the last thing her fol-
lowers desire. As long as it remains
sealed, its contents a mystery, they have
something to hold them together and to
draw subscriptions which defray the cost
of maintaining their headquarters.
“But once the contents are known —
and they’re probably on a par with all
the rest of her semi-literate religious
ramblings—then all their beliefs will be
shattered and they’ll join the other freak
religions of the past which led people
into the proverbial wilderness.”


The WILDCAL
COLUMN
Blue Metal Industries, Ltd.
Rapid expansion continues. Last year
17 new subsidiaries were acquired:
Carson Bros. Pty.
Melocco Bros. Pty.
Certified Concrete Pty.
Road Constructors Pty.
Yarramundi Properties Pty.
Specified Concrete Investments Pty.
Specified Concrete Pty.
Specified Concrete (Sales) Pty.
Specified Concrete (Albion • Park) Pty.
N.S.W. Bulk Cement Distributors Pty.
Wollongong Concrete Pty.
D-Y Ready Mixed Concrete Pty.
D-Y Concrete (Liverpool) Pty.
Arncliffe Ready Mixed Concrete Pty.
Universal Ready Mixed Concrete Pty.
Clark Kilns (N.S.W.) Pty.
De Marco Bros. Pty.
In addition, Blue Metal Industries,
Ltd., controls the following subsidiaries:
N.S.W. Associated Blue Metal Quarries Pty.
Sydney and Suburban Blue Metal Quarries
Pty.
Blue Metal Quarries Pty.
Federal Blue Metal Quarries Pty.
Peat’s Ridge Blue Metal Co. Pty.
Carson Bros. Pty.,
(These cos. work quarries in various parts
of N.S.W. to produce blue-metal aggregate
and road-base .)
Nepean Sand and Gravel Co. Pty.
Quarries Pty.
{River gravel, crushed aggregate and sand
from deposits on the Nepean River.)
Mobile Plant Pty. {Haulage contractor.)
Transport Industries Pty. {Plant-maintenance
for group and outside customers.)
Howard Engineering Pty. {Construction and
maintenance of heavy quarry-plant, general
engineering.)
Bituminous Pavements Pty. {Manufacturers
of pre-mixed bituminous macadam, road- and
pavement-contractor.)
Prospect Equipment Pty. {Buying-agents and
suppliers of quarry equipment.)
Blue Metal and Gravel Pty. {Selling-agent for
the metal- and gravel-cos.)
Blue Metal Industries, Ltd., Sydney-
registered blue-metal quarry proprietor,
was formed as a holding co. in 1952 to
acquire the issued capital of the then 31-
year-old N.S.W. Associated Blue Metal
Quarries, Ltd. A vigorous programme of
modernisation and expansion followed.
Earnings responded to a consistent
policy of large investments into plant,
equipment, etc., and ploughing-back of a
major part of annual profit's.
The Blue Metal group retains a con-
siderable proportion of business associ-
ated with blue-metal quarrying and road-
making within the rapidly growing
organisation. Activities range from pro-
ducing blue-metal aggregates and road-
bases to general engineering, production
of river-gravel and sand, etc.
The group had a good year. Con-
solidated net profit for the period ended
June 30, 1960, was £306,562 higher at
£726,474 after setting-aside £410,476. for
depreciation (up £93,424) and providing
£498,134 for taxation (up £222,922):
Parent and Subsidiary.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit, v ( —--Dividends serves. serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1955 .. 218,806 10 = 118,726 100,080 47,780
1956 .. 295,736 10 = 118,726 177,010 224,790
Tax underprovided, £3284 .. . . 221,506
To prov. 1.-s. leave, £22,885 .. 198,621
Share-issue expenses, £1675 . . . . 196,946
Added subsidiary reserve, £2500 . . 199,446
1957 .. 313,957 io = 138,514 175,443 374,889
1958 .. 332,395 10 = 158,302 174,093 548,982
1959 .. 419,912 121= 197,878 222,034 771,016
Asset revaluation, £567,709 . . 1,338,725
Pre-acquisition reserves subsidiaries, ,
£270,118 . . . . . • - . 1,608,843
Excess par value shares subsidiary
written-down, £270,118 .. 1,338,725
Net decrease reserves, £10,395 . . 1,328,330
1960 . . 726,474 15 = 316,484 409,990 1,738,320
* After deducting intangible's, written-out of the
books in 1960.
This represents a full year's trading for
all subsidiaries, including cos. acquired
during last term, except Arncliffe Ready
Mixed Concrete Pty.
Tax-provision looks large on the earn-
ings disclosed, calculated on post-Budget
co. rates. However, the picture is com-
plicated by the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Profits revealed were equivalent to
an earning-rate of 34.4 p.c. on the higher
average ord. capital, compared with 26.5
p.c. on lower capital in the previous term,
and 20.9 p.c., 22.6 p.c., 24.9 p.c. and
18.4 p.c. back to 1955.
The div.-rate was lifted from 12y p.c.
to 15 p.c., absorbing £316,484. Re-
serves benefited by £409,990 and also by
£567,709 revaluation of four freeholds
and £270,118 pre-acquisition profits of
newly-acquired subsidiaries. Intangibles
were written-out of the books from an
undisclosed source, leaving total reserves
and undistributed profits at £1,738,320.
During the year the co. issued
3,541,426 ss. ords. and special ords. in
acquisition of subsidiaries, raising paid
capital to £2,468,373. The special ords.
rank equally with ords. for dividends but
have restricted voting-rights in the hands
of present shareholders. On resale they
are automatically converted into ords.
with fuli voting-rights. The balance of
purchase consideration for the acquisi-
tion of subsidiaries was satisfied by
£191,148 in cash and unsecured notes.
The co.’s claim against N.S.W. Rail-
ways Department for the resumption of
the Bombo quarry was settled “at a figur |
which shows a profit over the book-valu I
of the quarry.” In addition, the depart |
ment paid interest from the date of re
sumption, netting Blue Metal £27,02;
after tax (included in consolidated earn .
ings).
Liquidity remained satisfactory. Banl|
accommodation reappeared at £186,393®
There was a switch to long-term borrow
ing with £103,700 loans on mortgage anc
£48,832 notes. Creditors and book-debt:
were much higher:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1958. 1959. 1960.:
Paid capital .. £1,583,016 £1,583,016 &%, 468,373
Reserves .. .. 950,813 1,172,847 1,738,52 f
Outside interests. . 80,566 87,680 62,221-
Mortgage .. - —103,70 f
Notes . . . . 48,83:
Overdraft .. —186,3 Gt
Creditors, etc. .. 350,235 395,768 990,84!
Tax provision . . 225,923 294,154 537,281
Final div. .. 79,151 98,939 215,98:
£3,269,704 £3,632,404 £6,351,951
Fixed assets . . 1,778,360 1,770,047 3,862,805
Shares other cos... 1,778 1,445 35,831
Stock . . .. 457,505 522,597 868,60 C
Debtors, etc. .. 612,427 581,184 1,354,099
Cash, bonds .. 17,803 355,300 230,624
Intangibles .. 401,831 401,831
£3,269,704 £3,632,404 £6,351,956
Stocks increased. Cash, bonds, etc., were
lower. Fixed assets showed the effect of
the revaluation of freeholds.
Future prospects seem good. The co.
continues to expand. Growth is
financed by profits plough-backs, share-
issues and long-term borrowings. The
increased div.-rate is an encouraging
pointer.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched 19s. a unit, for an immediate
yield of 4.1 p.c. p.a.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
at just over Bs. 6d. a unit, calculated on
consolidated figures.
International Resistance Holdings
Last year was highlighted by two share-
issues at a premium, and the acqui-
sition of Stabilac Pty., manufacturer of
electronic and magnetic amplifier-con-
trolled A.C. voltage-stabilisers, constant-
current regulators, constant-voltage
“What are you like on taxidermy?”


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Patmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALIEN, M. R. R. DOWLING, P. R. LEVY, A. P.
REYNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfln House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building-, 150 Queen St., Melbourne—67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong:
•ansformers and related equipment,
ales improved and earnings were higher.
Registered in Sydney in 1950, Inter-
national Resistance Holdings, Ltd.,
•perates through six subsidiaries in
4.5. W. and one in Victoria, and has wide
American affiliations. The group manu-
actures electrical resisters, transformers,
hokes, coils, cables, capacitors, wires,
wring-devices, etc., for electrical, radio,
"V and automotive industries and
general industrial purposes. There are
aluable U.S. and U.K. agency-lines.
Sales of TV-components remained
>atisfactory, accounting for about 49 p.e.
if the aggregate turnover. Total volume
if sales rose by 20 p.e. Consolidated net
■earnings were 56,439, or 23 p.e., higher
[at £310,393, after providing £53,944 for
depreciation (up £6417) and setting-aside
£216,536 for taxation at new rates (up
■£59,395):
International Resistance Holdings and
Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Jue. I'rofit. Pref. f -Ord. serves. serves.*
30, £ £ £ £ £
74 p.e.
’50.. 31,525 Bsp.c.= 14,274 17,251 41,763
To assets revaluation reserve, £22,295 64,058
Unexplained additions, £7199 . . 71,257
’51.. 42,712 10 p.c.= 20,832. 21,880 93,137
Unexplained additions, £2 . . 93,-139
’52.. 49,294 10 p.c.= 28,000 21,294 114,433
Tax overprovided, £648 .. .. 115,081
’53.. 13,077 3 p.e.= 10,500 2,577 117,658
Tax overprovided, £2709 .. .. 120,367
’54.. 40,756 10 p.e.= 35,000 5,756 126,123
’55.. 64,820 1563 10 „ „ 35,000 28,257 154,380
Revaluation freeholds, £35,966 . . 190,346
’50.. 60,638 7500- 10 „ „ 4,0,834 12,304 202,650
’57..121,706 7500 124 „ „ 65,625 48,581 251,231
Tax overprovided, £5850 .. .. 257,081
Share- and note-issue expenses w/off,
£12,630 244,451
’58..212,659 7500 124p.c.= 65,626 139,533 383,984
Share and note-issue expenses w/off,
£3040 380,944
’59.-25.3,954 7500 124p.c.- 74,375 172,079 553,023
Pre-acquisition profits, £12,928 .. 565,951
Share-premiums, £352,500 .. ..- 918,451
Profit sale assets, £3363 .. .. 921,814
’60..310,393.7500 1'24p.c.=120,781 182,112 1,103,926
* Subject to intangibles, £148,700 at 3Q/6/’6O.
After paying £7500 pref. divs. this repre-
sented an earning-rate of 31.3 p.e. on the
higher average ord. capital, compared
with 42.7 p.e. in the previous term, 39
p.e. in 1958, 21.7 p.e. in 1957 and 13 p.e.
in 1956 (all on lower capital). The tax-
slug looks high on profits disclosed.
A steady 12| p.e. ord. div. was paid
on the higher capital, absorbing £120,781.
Reserves benefited by £182,112 and also
by £12,928 pre-acquisition profits made
on the Stabilac Pty. takeover, £3363
profit on sale of assets and £352,500
share-premiums, rising to £1,103,926
(subject to £148,700 intangibles).
During the year the co. issued
£183,750 ss. ords., one-for-four, at a
premium of ss. a unit. This was followed
by a placement of £67,500 ss. ords. at
12s. 6d. premium a unit. A further
£13,750 ss. ords. were issued in acqui-
sition of Stabilac Pty.
The cumulative effect of these issues
was to lift ord. capital to £1,100,000 and
create £352,500 share-premiums reserve.
Capital raisings at a high premium de-
creased the co.’s reliance on external
borrowings. Notes were £70,000 lower
at £150,000 following repayment of 6
p.e. unsecured notes during last term:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 525,000 735,000 1,000,000
Reserves .. .. 383,984 553,023 1,103,926
Notes .. .. 220,000 220,000 150,000
Mortgages .. 108,432 123,926 129,500
Overdraft . . 48,112 —•
Creditors, etc,*.. 347,927 315,666 504,304
Final div. .. 36,563 40,938 66,250
£1,770,018 £2,088,553 £3,053,980
Freehold, plant, etc. 646,846 707,897 890,672
Stocks .. . . 519,344 620,403 693,974
Debtors, etc. . . 458,723 451,445 680,481
Cash . . . . 5,350 169,053 640,153
Intangibles .. 139,755 139,755 148,700
£1,770,018 £2,088,553 £3,053,980
* Includes provision for taxation.
Higher book-values of freeholds, plant,
etc., reflect sustained large investments
into fixed assets to improve the group’s
productive-capacity and earning-poten-
tial. Good progress has been made on
the Kingsgrove (N.S.W.) plant. Exten-
sions to factories in Sydney, Dee Why,
Punchbowl, Marrickville (all N.S.W.) and
Preston (Vic.) have been completed.
Creditors, stocks and book-debts were
higher. (Stocks of TV - components are
said to be relatively low due to good turn-
over). The £471,100 jump in cash, etc.,
was due to the fact that proceeds of
the share-issues were still on hand at
balance-date.
Prospects appear satisfactory, despite
the credit-squeeze. The group’s diver-
sified interests offer some protection
against economic fluctuations.
High premiums commanded by Inter-
national Resistance’s scrip are an indi-
cation of the sharemarket’s esteem. At
the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
were traded for 16s. 6d. a unit, for an
immediate return of 3.8 p.e. on the
basis of the steady 12} p.e. div.-rate.
Net tangible asset-backing works out
at 9s. 9d. for each ss. ord. on the basis
of consolidated accounts.
Kern Bros., Ltd.
TVvs. have been steady at p.e.
since Kern Bros.’ inception, capital
has more than doubled, and the 20s. ords.
fetch 31s. 9d. on the closing market for
1960, yielding 7.9 p.e.
Incorporated in 1956, Kern Bros., Ltd.,
took-over the then nine-year-old family-
P a rtnership of building-contractors
kicked-off by R. G. Kern in Townsville
(Q.) in 1947. Purchase consideration
involved £25,070, £5570 in cash and
£19,500 in 20s. f.-p. shares. Further
shares to the value of £2502 were issued
for cash and in April, 1957, the public
subscribed £40,000 in ords., lifting paid
capital to £62,002.
In 1956-57 Kern Bros, took-on several
large contracts, including one for laying
concrete foundations for a Mary Kath-
leen Uranium treatment-plant. No longer
hampered by lack of capital (as in the
partnership days) and with the building
boom gathering pace the co. initiated an
expansion programme which has proved
little short of spectacular.
Capital, rising to £82,000 at balance-
date, is ' now further increased. Kern
Bros, has just concluded a two-for-five
issue at a premium of ss.
Latest results reflect intense activity on
an expanding front. Turnover (up
£373,021 at £896,300) and net profit (up
£3BlO at £15,672) broke all previous
records. The profit figure was struck
after meeting all expenses including taxa-
tion £12,100 (up £7181) and depreciation
£19,651 (up £13,467):
Parent.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. f— —Dividends serves, serves.
30 £ £ £ £
1958 .. 11,914 121 p.e. = 7,750 4,164 9,260
Preliminary expenses written-off, £1949 7,311
1959 . . 11,862" 12f p.e. = 7,750 4,112 11,423
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Profit sale freehold, £2653 .. .. 14,076
Preliminary expenses written-off, £584 13,492
Provision for contingencies, £2000.. 11,492
Capital surplus on acquisition of sub-
sidiary, £7615 .. .. .. 19,107
1960 .. 15,672 12$ p.e. = 9,000 6,672 25,779
It works-out at 21.8 p.e. on average paid
capital, compared with 19.1 p.e., 19.2 p.e.
and 32.1 p.e. back to 1957. Reserves,
benefiting undistributed profits., etc.,
jumped £14,356 (or 126 p.e.) to £25,779.
Balance-sheet figures illustrate steeper
capital investment plus declining
liquidity:
CONSOLI-
f- Parent Only dated.
1957. 1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital . £62,002 £62,002 £62,002 £82,000
Reserves .. 5,096 7-,311 11,423 25,779
H.-p. contracts 10,420 30,901
Notes ... 20,600 26,102
Mortgage .. 12,000
Sundry creditors 51,263 34,184 93,186 162,413
Overdraft - 7,294 23,918
Tax provision 8,300 8,600 5,070 12,094
Final dividend 3,584 3,875 3,875 5,125
£130,245 £115,972 £213,870 £380,332
Freeholds .. 16,850 27,510 28,803 42,323
Plant, etc. . . 24,385 26,302 53,100 117,919
Stocks and work-
in-progress . 47,356 38,559 53,910 67,212
Book debts... 11,812 17,116 69,725 103,624
Cash, etc. . . 27,893 6,485 8,332 49,254
Intangibles .. 1,949
£130,245 £115,972 £213,870 £“380,332
Book-values of freeholds and plant rose
£13,520 (to £42,323) and £64,819
(£117,919) respectively. Theoretical
working-capital, down £6002 at £16,540,
has since been supplemented, funds
coming in from the premium issue.
Kern Bros, has proclaimed an even
greater expansion of activity in the near
future. But directors plans, and the co’s.
■profits, too, will almost certainly be
affected by the recent introduction of
fiscal measures brought down by the
Federal Government in November. The
building-boom is already quietening-
down.
The current term began well, all the
same, with about £1,250,000 (£750,000)
worth of contracts in hand. The value
of uncompleted works was approximately
£850,000 (£500,000).
Net tangibles at close of the accounts
amounted to 265. 3d. for every 20s. ord.


What Asians Think of Us - I
To Indians: Distant, Insignificant
By NEIL MCINNES
'T'HIS is the first of a set of articles
dealing with Asian attitudes to
Australians. The purpose of them is to
present the plain facts regardless of
whether they are flattering or offensive
to us. Sometimes they may be one,
sometimes the other. But at least, they
will be true. Later articles will deal
with the attitudes of Japanese, Indo-
nesians and Malayans.
ON my first night at the newsdesk of
an Indian daily I was asked to
sub a cable about floods near
Perth. Using the abbreviation
common in home papers, I put up the
heading “Floods in W. Australia.”
Glimpsing' this heading on the galley-
proof an hour later, the chief sub, a
Madrassi named Subramaniam, called
curtly down the newsdesk, “We don’t
use that abbreviation here. You’ll have
to write it in full: Floods in White Aus-
tralia”. When I looked dumbfounded,
all my colleagues—Bengalis, Punjabis,
Madrassis, Anglo-Burmese and Indian
Jews nodded solemnly: all that W.
could stand for in front of Australia was
White. In fact, Australia just by itself
looked —if not as naked as States without
Uifited —as brief as Britain without
Great. The full name of the place was
White Australia.
This is the first thing an Indian thinks
about Australia. Yet it is also probably
the last. Once he has reminded himself
and you that his people are not admitted
to Australia because they're the wrong
color, he lets the matter drop. And if
you are sensible enough to let it drop
too, you’ll hear no more of it.' If, on
the contrary, you seek to explain or
defend our racial immigration policies,
you’ll be treated to such pieces of local
folklore as the story of how our fathers
exterminated millions of aborigines and
how we brutally oppress the survivors.
This story, like the one about the British
cutting off the thumbs of the Dacca
muslin-weavers for the sake of Lanca-
shire, is not entirely believed in, or at
least is known to be inadequately docu-
mented: it is held in reserve for cases
of polemical resistance, but at all other
times treated as so doubtful as to be
unimportant.
If you meet the inevitable opening
reference to White Australia with a
“liberal” suggestion about quotas for
Asian migrants, you will get deeper and
deeper in, and end up offending any
Indian intelligent enough to see that you
are trying to drive a wedge between him
and his “coolies.” ( Quli is Urdu for
working-man and thus a perfectly ordin-
ary respectable word in India.) Rather
than seek refuge in class or money snob-
bery (which is what all quota systems
come down to), it is safer to stay on
frankly racial grounds because it will at
once emerge that, having ritually deplored
the White Australia policy, the Indian’s
knowledge of and opinions about Aus-
tralia are exhausted, and he has no other
course but to start treating you as a
human being instead of as a sample of
nationality.
'T'he Indian strongly resembles the Aus-
tralian (and all other peoples of
colonial mentality) in this, that in matters
where he has no personal experience he
adopts the opinions of his former British
rulers. He thinks Australia is inhabited
by tough, coarse, beer-drinking, gambl-
ing, brave and sportsmanlike louts, for
exactly the same reason as Australians
think India is populated solely by
“coolies,” fakirs and snake-charmers:
because the British told us all these
things, and we have had no cause to
check-up. Why bother to check when
the stereotype, with a bit of stretching,
can be made to accommodate most evi-
dence? For example, at the opening of
the current U.N. session, Mr Menzies
got very much the worse of a debate with
Mr Nehru, and the Indian press was
delighted to tell how their sharp Harro-
vian Brahmin expertly flayed the fat,
red-faced, uncouth blunderer—precisely
as nimble Prince Henry would have taken
down a bullying, half-drunk Falstaff.
More bitterness than usual went into this
portrait because it was felt that Mr
Menzies, once again, was doing the dirty
work for the British Foreign Office, but
the clash of these two personalities fitted
in well enough with Indian ideas on the
two national characters.
In so far as the Indian finds materials
for a personal image of Australians,
they call for only minor changes in this
inherited cliche, because most of the
Australians in India, both before and after
Independence, are jockeys., horse-trainers,
airline pilots, visiting cricketers and
tennis-players, con-men and cabaret per-
formers. Such people give an admittedly
partial impression of Australia, but 1
would not swear it was a false one. At
all events it reinforces wartime memories
(I heard this tale a dozen times in India)
of how Australian soldiers ran rickshaw
races down Chowringhee with the humi-
liated rickshaw coolies as passengers.
This story is held to epitomise our infor-
mality, democratic spirit and insensi-
tivity.
'T'he Indian image of Australia is not so
A firmly held to as to exclude in-
consistent evidence (as I think the British
image is). The fact, and the fruits, of
Australian industrialisation and*research
are accepted without too much incredu-
lous surprise. Students who return with
enthusiastic reports of Australian know-
how and fair dealing are eventually
believed (those who give racialism as the
reason for their failure at Australian
universities are instantly believed but also
instantly forgotten), though they have
much less prestige than students who
return from Britain even if they come
back full of complaints.
Whatever may be the case with Indo-
nesians and Japanese, politics plays
absolutely no part in Indian feelings
about Australia. You would have to go
a long way to find an Indian who really
cared about our membership of military
pacts or about New Guinea. The Com-
monwealth connection is politically mean-
ingless in Indian eyes. Besides, Indians
today feel that theirs is a big important
nation, and ours small and unimportant.
The politically minded Indian has more
to think about than a distant, insignificant
community that does not persecute
Indians because it has none to persecute
The volume of Australian economic aid
to developing countries (Australia gives
a larger percentage of her national
revenue to aid than any country except
France, and, in absolute figures, is the
fourth largest lender-donor) does little
to change this. Why should it? All
Western and Soviet aid to backward
countries put together is vastly insufficient
in relation to their needs, so why should
one minor participant in this inadequate
operation expect gratitude, popularity or
renown?


Shows
"Magic Pudding’s”
Ancestors
Norman Lindsay’s inexhaustible pud-
ding is back with the rest of the cast,
Peter Scriven’s Tintookies, in two daily
sittings of three slices each at Sydney
Conservatorium.
And the emphasis is rightly on the
pudding. Never was so angry, so
THEATRE
curmudgeonly a pud-
ding, a pudding so lim-
ber of leg, with arms
so ready to turn the
world into its punching - bag, a pud-
ding so eaten - up, as it were, with
malignity, a pudding so lucky in its
cooks, in Lindsay’s authorship and draw-
ings, in the Tintookie marionette makers
and manipulators.
Apart from the pudding, it is not the
leading characters,'like Bill Barnacle or
Bunyip Bluegum, so much as a few of
the character-actors, who take the cake:
Henderson Hedgehog is just about per-
fect as a deaf hedgehog unable to under-
stand that they are asking where the
pudding-thieves have gone ; the Rooster,
whose directions are like those of a
matter-of-fact Australian farmer, clear
and unequivocal, crowns his lifelike
dialogue with an invitation to meet the
wife ; and there was an original and
sinister characterisation of the Kooka-
burra which took him right out of cliche.
But the leading actors carried the play
very well, and the dance Sam Sawnoff
performed to keep the pudding-thieves
quiet, while Bunyip Bluegum disguised
himself as a woman to make the Wombat
take off his hat and disclose the Pudding,
was a soft-shoe masterpiece.
For anyone who has made a fully-
jointed marionette (and been unable to
work it) the wonder of the show must
be the certainty, the humanity, of the
manipulators; the way in which the
pudding-thief is made to turn catherine-
wheels around the handle of his fire-
engine, the gesture, here and there, as
perfect and as revealing, as an actor or
a politician could make it. For the most
part the voices were excellent. The pud-
ding, not in very good voice at the
beginning, cleared up towards the end.
But the songs, set by Hal Evans, had
to be satisfied with being good, roister-
ing music: the words didn’t come
through at all well.
It is hard to say anything that has not
already been said about this masterpiece,
though as one watched it, and remem-
bered that fairytales by powerful minds
can mostly be analysed back to age-old
and significant ritual, one wondered what
ritual significant to the tribe might be
embodied in Albert Cut-and-Come-
Again, the Magic Pudding. And then
one thought of John Barleycorn, and
thought back and back to half-remem-
bered books of tribal ritual . . . But some
other time, one thought. Not in front of
the children.
Ronald McCuaig
“After the Ball”
Adelaide’s liveliest company, the
Adelaide Theatre Group, turned on the
first production in Australia of Noel
Coward’s musical, “After the Ball,” based
on Wilde’s “Lady Windermere’s Fan”
and originally foisted on London’s West
End by Robert Helpmann in 1954.
In Adelaide it was a gala occasion,
attended by Mayorality and Establish-
ment. The Willard Hall foyer was decked
out with masses of white mosquito
netting and pink artificial roses. At the
heart of this decor, like a wayside
shrine florally tended by simple peasants,
was a framed cable from Noel Coward
hoping the production would be trium-
phantly successful. It springs eternal!
“After the Ball” startlingly evokes
memories of the vicar’s concert at the
Gong-Gong church hall. The company
marches around the stage, top-hatted,
singing a jolly song, and marches off.
The lyric soprano sings a serious song.
Then a duet. Then a funny song with
patter. Back comes the lyric Mrs
Windermere to declare that her love is
dying with the last spring flowers. As
against the vicar’s programme, none of
Mr Coward’s lyrics achieve the pro-
fundity of “Asleep in the* Deep” or the
wit of “I Do Like To Be Beside the Sea-
side.” The musical composition operates
so mercilessly on the basis of diddly-dum
diddly-dum diddly-twee as to make
Gilbert and Sullivan seem by comparison
a fit score for a Lee Gordon Spectacular.
The only interest this musical possesses
is archaeological . . . the mummified sur-
vival of, the Coward-Novello idiom as
late as 1954!
The Adelaide production was raw but
spirited. Peter Goerecke nobly convinced
himself that he was actually being a
character. Patsy Flannagan comman-
deered the stage for a grande dame piece
in the true Wildean spirit. The other
players varied their style between extreme
Elia Kazan and the grand Milan
manner.
Audience-reaction spelled out an im-
perative message to the talented producer.
Mr Francis Flannagan must-eschew the
Edwardian nonsense he loves so well and
return to the contemporary drama he
produces so well.
Max Harris
“A View from the Bridge”
Arthur Miller’s first look from the
bridge was a much more universal, or
“cosmic” affair than the present, drama-
tised one. Originally, it had a lawyer,
a Mr Alfieri 4 as a kind of modern Greek
chorus commenting on the action and it
employed a species of slack, modern
verse to emphasise the universality of
the theme.
Wisely, Miller discarded this larger
than life treatment and concentrated on
the particular problems of his New York
Italian family and the illegal immigrants
they shelter in their home, and it is only
when vestiges of the former play inflate
the present one that the action becomes
uncomfortable. At times, for instance,
Mr Alfieri unnecessarily links two scenes
by commenting on the past action to
such an extent that the alleged wise
observer of all humanity becomes a bore.
The first act is weakened by this vacilla-
tion of styles, but the second, direct,
economical, justifies the play's promi-
nence in the modern repertoire.
Latest group to present it was Brisbane
Arts Theatre with an astonishingly good
performance from Richard Spring (in
the second act) as Eddie, and a con-
sistently sustained Marco from Brian
Moll.
Much of Brian Cannon’s production
was imaginative, with fine sets and poetic
lighting. The two longshoremen who
passed briefly across the stage could
have strayed in from a Brando “On the
Waterfront,” so authentic their gait and
speech, yet the two migration officials
(possibly the same actors) could only
belong to an Australian race-track. The
American accent is not a difficult one
for actors to assume, and here it was
done with partial success only. It was
not until Mr Alfieri’s belated short “a”
that many in the audience realised that
the play was set in the New World.
The on-stage violence of the conclusion
was authentically presented almost
operatic—which is as it should be, for
by this time the play is as elemental as
ever “Cav” or u Pag” could hope to be.
Val Vallis
“The Lesson” and “The Chairs”
These two one-act plays by Eugene
lonesco, which Sydney Independent is
doing on Wednesdays and Thursdays,
retaining “The Crucible” on Fridays and


Saturdays, are both clever exercises in
stage technique.
In “The Lesson” a mad professor is to
be provoked to murder by a young girl.
To vary the approach to this trite con-
clusion the dialogue proceeds in a series
of surreal surprises. She can add but
not subtract. After failing in the most
simple sums she makes an instant and
correct multiplication of millions by
millions. Then, as the professor talks
more wildly on other subjects, she wails
that she has toothache, and they rise
to a frenzy, she of pain and he of ranting
disregard for it.
In “The Chairs” surreal chairs replace
surreal words. A crackbrained old couple
gradually fill the stage with them, to
seat imaginary guests whom they have
invited to hear the old man’s parting
message to the world. But when the
old couple leap into the void the orator
they have left to speak for them mouths
empty nothings to the empty seats.
Both plays conclude with the creaking
laughter of a creaking cliche unlocking
a problem in a detective-story magazine.
But they make good parts for Verity
Marina as a hysterical young girl and
as a wandering old woman, Robert Levis
as a mad professor, Edward Hepple as
a frustrated old man, Patty Assange as
a worried and sinister maid, and Jeremy
Muir-Smith as a handsome and inarticu-
late god out of the machine ; and two
smooth productions for the English
visitor, J. Miles-Brown.
R. McC.
FILMS
“Pollyanna”
Pollyanna, as created by Eleanor
Stratton Porter and played straight by
Mary Pickford in 1919, was so sweet and
good and interfering that she fascinated
two generations of girls by her sheer
impossibility.
She played “the glad game”; she could
find something to be glad about in the
most unfortunate happenings. When the
missionary society sent her a pair of
crutches instead of a doll Pollyanna was
glad that she didn’t have to use them.
Walt Disney, by making the story
more glamorous, has made it more real.
The dour and dreary setting of the
original story becomes a gay and sunlit
town, the severe characters are better
looking (particularly Jane Wyman as
Aunt Polly), the grumpy ones have a
twinkle (Adolphe Menjou and Agnes
Moorehead). The Edwardian clothes and
furniture are lavish and enchanting.
Above all, Hayley Mills, as Pollyanna,
brings such warmth and natural affec-
tion to the part that “the glad girl” really
comes to life for the first time in history.
At Sydney Liberty.
P.F.L.
“Lords of the Jungle”
The International Scientific Organisa-
tion, whose chairman is King Leopold,
backed this record of the life of tribes-
men in the Congo at a time when Africa
is in turmoil between Nature and
Civilisation.
Unlike other films of Africa’s wild
life, this portrays man as more than a
“part of Nature’s scheme.” Congo man,
more than civilised man, is in sympathy
with the other animals and coexists with
them, but he remains lord.
William Warfield is the narrator of
the life of the tribesmen, his rich bass
voice at times a forcible reminiscence
of Bosambo; Orson Welles speaks for
the other inhabitants of the Congo, a
little wry, a little cynical, a little sinister.
The photography, never tedious or
repetitive, does not comment. On the
plains lions and elephants, by the lakes
the vast flocks of birds, in the jungles
the huge gorillas, the brilliantly-plumed
peacocks and the quaint survivors of pre-
history capture both eye and imagination.
This is one of the best films of its
kind. It does not pretend to be a glimpse
of paradise or a treatise on the survival
of the fittest, two reticences sufficient to
put it in world-class.
Charles Smith
“Song Without End”
Liszt’s (Dirk Bogarde) mistress the
countess (Genevieve Page) is soothing
their children while he composes, but
Chopin and George Sand persuade him
to come back and play in Paris, whence
he follows a Russian princess to Vienna
and Russia, warns the Tsar for talking at
a concert and hires a hall and plays the
piano wherever the princess goes. She
says yes while he plays and no after the
concert until there is a revolution in
Vienna and she receives him in a hunting
lodge and a white nightgown.
But what she would highly that would
she holily, and steers him off to Weimar,
where he produces little things like
Wagner’s “Tannhauser” and his own
Hungarian rhapsodies and spurns the
countess when she calls for a cure for
Lisztlessness. In Rome the Russian
Ambassador intervenes; the princess
admits to making false charges against
her husband to secure a divorce and
marry Liszt; she renounces Liszt and he
goes into a monastery ; he is last heard
playing a characteristic piece with a
Hollywood choral setting in a church as
flamboyant as the film while the princess
dwindles in black down the aisle to the
exit.
The piano-dubbing is more creditable
than Bogarde’s pianism is credible, but as
Liszt’s favorite trick was the “transcrip-
tion” of other men’s compositions, he
might not have minded miming other
men’s performances: he would probably
have approved the whole film in all its
raucous reds, greens and blacks ; of all
the 19th-century musicians he was nearest
to Hollywood in taste.
At Sydney Lyceum.
R. McC.
ART
Folkprints from Vietnam and China
This small exhibition lent by L. P.
Fox, in the print room of the N.S.W.
Art Gallery, has been arranged for Christ-
mas and New Year. The vivid hand-
colored woodcuts are intended for the
decoration of peasants’ houses during
their most important annual festival
Most are from Hanoi and Tu Ho in
Vietnam. Some portray peasant life,
some national heroes and legends ; many
contain fertility and prosperity symbolism
appropriate to the season.
The Perth Prize
Not one picture from South Australia
competed for the Perth Prize for Con-
temporary Art. Queensland and N.S.W.
are represented, and Victoria has sent
a distinguished contingent; Allan
McCulloch flew from Melbourne to act
as judge.
Of 130 entries, 88 have been hung. The
general standard is high. There is also
a pleasing variety of subject and tech-
nique.
The prize went to Leonard French’s
symbolic puzzle of Eve and the serpent.
Not as large as his Rubinstein travelling
scholarship canvases, “Woman in the
Garden” is as richly patterned in batik
browns, with sooty whorls on luminous
white. Nevertheless, once the “woman”
is discovered, some of its impact is
cancelled by recollection of Epstein’s
“Genesis” and a query whether pure
abstract would not better serve French’s
present style.
John Perceval’s “Still Stream” eddies
mysteriously beneath thick-painted grey-
green undergrowth, elegantly branched.
Margo Lewers’s enormous “Building Pro-
ject” rears dramatic masses of green and
black supported by soaring lines. In
“Death of Voss” Peter Clarke skilfully
uses the texture of masonite to enhance
an abstract illusion of desiccated bones
(or insect husks?) in a red wilderness,
and Dickerson’s surgeons consult some-
what heavily over their assembled yellow-
gloved hands. Clifton Pugh, Len Craw-
ford, Jon Molvig, George Johnson, John
Olsen and Adam Tate are all represented
by one or more notable examples of their
work.
W.A. artists are by no means dismayed.
The watercolor section is small, but
Ivor Hunt carried off the prize with an
economically expressed street scene
“From Rock Inn,” and Maurice Ken-
nedy’s “Late Afternoon” is a gracious
but powerful idyll. Amongst the oils,
the delicate colors of Kathleen O’Con-
nor’s richly-painted “Water Lilies” and
“Persian Inspired” glow quietly beside
the undernourished, malevolent desert
piccaninnies of Elizabeth Durack’s
and the stark red and yellow
semi-abstraction of Arthur Russell’s
“River Red.” Guy Grey Smith, Ronald
Weddell, Tom Gibbons, Alan Baker, E.
Blair Barber all hold the eye.
In Gary Smith’s “Pursuit of Hector”
two warriors fly horizontally across a
fiery space. First hung vertically, this
was taken by spectators to be a flight
of grasshoppers ; balance was undisturbed


“And who gave you the idea that you Were immature?”
as in any good composition, but that
gallery officials can make such errors
is disconcerting. It happened also in the
Rubinstein exhibition, until a member
of the public pointed out that one of a
bridal suite was upside down. Restored
to her feet, the bride became clearly
visible.
F.D.
Dame Mary’s Dobell
Dame Mary Gilmore has given the
Art Gallery of New South Wales a Christ-
mas present, her portrait by William
Dobell, considered one of his three or
four best paintings.
It was commissioned by the Austral-
asian Book Society, Melbourne, on
Dame Mary’s 90th birthday, August 16,
1955. A fund was opened so that friends
of Dame Mary could take part. Dobell
painted several small oil sketches of
Dame Mary, then three large portraits,
two of which were discarded. The final
one took about a year to complete, and
was presented to Dame Mary at a cere-
mony at the Art Gallery of N.S.W.
September 20, 1957, where it was un-
veiled by Sir John Northcott.
It was lent to Newcastle, Dobell’s
birthplace, for the opening of their new
Art Gallery on October 26, 1957. A very
large public became familiar with it in
the Archibald Competition, 1957-58.
Since then it has been exhibited in Mel-
bourne (National Gallery 1958), Adelaide
(National Gallery 1958; Arts Festival
1960), Brisbane (Dobell exhibition 1959)
and Sydney (David Jones 1960). A color
reproduction is included in Kym Bony-
thon’s book, “Modern Australian Paint-
ing and Sculpture 1950-1960.”
Sydney Show Art Prizes
Three art competitions with cash prizes
totalling £1,700, will be conducted by
the Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.
as part of the 1961 Royal Easter Show.
R.A.S. director, Lieut-General Sir Frank
Berryman, announced details of compe-
titions for industrial and rural subjects,
with separate sections for “traditional”
and “modern style” paintings.'
“The Sir Charles Lloyd Jones
Memorial Art Prize” for an industrial
subject with a prize of £5OO donated by
David Jones Ltd., Sydney; judges:
William Dobell, Douglas Dundas and
Laurie Thomas. I
“The Rural Bank Art Prize” for a
rural subject (traditional style) with first
prize of £5OO, second prize of £l5O and
third prize of £5O donated by the Rural
Bank of N.S.W. ; judge: Eric Langker.
Rural subject (modern style) with a
prize of £500; judges: James Gleeson,
Frank Hinder and J. A. Tuckson.
Entries close on March 1, 1961.
NEW RECORDS
Dvorak ’Cello Concerto: Zara Nelsova
with the London Symphony Orchestra
under Josef Krips (Ace of Clubs,
ACLA92). The American influence on
Dvorak comes through in the negroid
adagio, richly and warmly played. For
the rest, soloist and orchestra chatter
happily through the rhapsodic and im-
provisational material.
Marching with the Coldstream Guards:
Major Pope conducting (R.C.A. stereo
5L10704). Fourteen marches old and
new. Only twice do they leave the
barrack square, with “On the Quarter-
deck” and “Viscount Nelson.”
Beethoven Symphonies 8 and 9:
Columbia Symphony Orchestra under
Bruno Walter (Coronet, KCL27II-12).
Walter’s reading of the Bth has polish
and verve, full of good humor in its
mockery of Maelzel in the clicking metro-
nomic beats of the second movement.
The 9th has a sensitive performance of
the “Ode to Joy” with Emilia Cundari,
Nell Rankin, Albert de Costa, William
Wildermann and the Westminster Sym-
phonic Choir.
Twilight in Vienna: Robert Stolz and
the Vienna State Orchestra (R.C.A.
5L10933). Music of 20th-century rather
than 19th-century Vienna, some by Stolz
himself, most of the rest by Austrian con-
temporaries, but in the Viennese melodic
tradition, as in “Third Man Theme”;
but there is also Lehar’s “Yours is My
Heart Alone.”
Helen Traubel in Opera and Song:
(R.C.A. CAMSI). She is the diva who
dived out of the New York Metropolitan
into the night-clubs, but the side on which
she sings Gluck, Wagner and Verdi with
the R.C.A. Victor Orchestra is superior
to that where she sings “Yours Is My
Heart Alone,” “The Lost Chord,”
“Greensleeves,” etc. —with the exception
of “The Merry Widow Waltz.”
Munch Conducts Wagner: Boston
Symphony Orchestra (R.C.A. L 16264).
The overture and Venusberg music from
“Tannhauser,” the Fire Music from “The
Valkyries” and Siegfried’s Rhine Journey
from “The Twilight of the Gods,” beauti-
fully played with a rich raspberry brass
and a portrait of Venus by Botticelli on
the cover ; not, perhaps, the most suit-
able place for a nice girl like that.
Great Jazz Pianists: (R.C.A. CAM 49).
Erroll Garner playing “Erroll’s Bounce”
seems the most satisfying of this collec-
tion ; clean playing with the left hand
weaving into the texture of the right
hand in ways you’d hardly think pos-
sible ;of the 11 others, Jelly Roll Morton,
Ellington and James P. Johnson are lost
in the band, but Oscar Peterson, Meade
Lux Lewis, Art Tatum and Albert
Ammons and Pete Johnson are well
represented—the selection is a good
anthology of styles.
Favorite Stories for Children: Nar-
rated by Paul Wing, with musical back-
ground and effects by the Norman
Leyden Orchestra and the Russ Case
Orchestra. (Camden CAM-48). If your
children have outgrown “Puss in Boots,”
“Tom Thumb,” “Three Billygoats Gruff,”
“Dick Whittington,” and other tales of
the same vintage this one can be passed
over. If not, well, Paul Wing and his
team do the job much better than you
could do it yourself, besides releasing
you for other activities.


"Women
AMERICAN GOODS... BABY-SITTERS... STATUS FLOWERS
American Goods:
End of a Romance
For many Australian women 1960
marked the end of a lifelong romance.
In February the Federal Government
announced the relaxation of import
restrictions, and within a short time Aus-
tralian women saw the first American
consumer-goods they had seen in bulk
since before the war.
Buyers from the big shops flew to
America to place orders. One city store
was so breathlessly eager to get American
goods into its windows that it flew the
first consignments here.
Advertising departments put out more
flags. “Welcome back, American goods,”
“From Fifth Avenue to You” ran the
slogans on pasteboard spattered with
stars and stripes. The general note was
rather that the United States was doing
us a favor letting us buy her goods. At
a price, of course.
It was more than 20 years since
American consumer-goods had been here
in quantity, and few women under the
age of 40 would have had much recollec-
tion of them ; at least, few housewives
below that age would ever before have
been consistent shoppers for them. *
But most Australian housewives were
well acquainted with American goods
through advertisements in American
magazines.
A good deal of American advertising
is skilfully directed towards transferred
effect. In the “Ladies Home Journal” or
“The Saturday Evening Post” those
magazines which, in the common com-
ment, have “such wonderful advertise-
ments”—Australian housewives saw trim,
pretty housewives making beds with rose-
strewn sheets in immaculately dainty bed-
rooms with the sun perpetually shining
through the window. Small wonder that
many Australian women wistfully
thought that American goods would not
only give them greatly superior house-
hold articles but would miraculously
eliminate dirt and disorder from the
home, solve marriage problems and im-
prove the climate, as well as make the
housewife herself look five years younger
and 101 b. lighter.
But with the lifting of import restric-
tions came disenchantment.
This disillusion is suffered by many
people who visit the United States. They
see for themselves the row upon row
of cheap dresses, made to be worn a
few months and then thrown away, in a
shop like Kleins on the Square, and they
eat, say, a tuna-fish sandwich in a drug-
store on Lexington Avenue.
Closer to hand, the moment of truth
can come if you have a meal on a U.S.
liner and sample a slice of those over-
blown pies from which every vestige of
flavor has been remorselessly excluded.
The advertisements for Betty Crocker’s
self-raising flour or Aunt Jemima’s quick-
mix are very handsome, but the end-
products can be unbelievably tasteless.
America is committed to a waste
economy, and many of her goods seem
shoddy to anyone living in a country
where even a token acknowledgement is
still paid to quality and longevity.
So the reaction of many local house-
wives to American goods has been that
they look better at first glance than at
second.
The shops now have American clothes,
fabrics and household goods at sale
prices. One store has had racks of
American teenage fashions in its
clearance corner for weeks.
Granted, it has been a disappointing
summer, with few people in the shops and
fewer anxious to buy summer clothes.
But the clothes which the buyers were
in such a hurry to get into their shops
last March and April were clothes for
the American summer. They arrived here
right at the end of our summer and hung,
limp and unwanted, through the winter,
then looked tired and tattered when the
local summer clothes came fresh to the
shops in August.
Many of the American goods proved
to be only copies of European originals
which had already been available- here.
American craftsmen are often of
European origin, and Americans are skil-
ful and constant copyists. Milk glass has
been very popular in the past few years,
but the American variety mostly copies
the charming patterns of French milk
glass, losing a good deal in the process.
And there were American copies of
Italian novelties (who doesn't copy
Italy?) which had to compete with the
original products in the shops here.
Other goods the local buyers brought
back seem rather wide of the Australian
market. American colonial furniture, for
instance. Few Australian women have
any feeling or fondness for colonial as
a home-decoration style. Only a house-
hold of unusual tastes or great extrava-
gance would redecorate in American
colonial s'.yle.
The store buyers probably would not
admit that they got their fingers burnt.
But there was at least a slight scorching,
and in future they may look very hard
at some American goods before they buy.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sitters
Though the word “baby-sitter” did not
come into the language until World
War 11, there have been baby-sitters since
the days of Cain and Abel—the difference
being that until recently they were
unpaid and largely unappreciated.
Today, however, there are such migra-
tions and scatterings of families, such
independence of aunts and determination
of grandmothers to “lead their own lives”
that baby-sitters are beginning to make
very definite demands (“Of course you
will pick me up and drive me home”)
as well as set fairly consistent prices on
their services.
Some people get sitters for as little as
2s. 6d. an hour, but the steady average
is 4s. an hour to midnight, ss. after that
(or during the day-time) and ss. 6d. on
Sundays and public holidays. And there
is usually a minimum charge of 16s. to
discourage parents who would call in a
sitter for half-an-hour.
Of course, at Christmas, and even more
on New Year’s Eve, the demand is so
great that the fee goes up to 7s. 6d. an
hour, with a minimum of 30s.
Middle-aged women are the aristocrats
of the profession. Students and teen-
agers like the work because it helps
them to save for holidays, hair-do’s,
etc., but they are generally a second
choice. Willing enough and often good
with children, they are nevertheless likely
to fail their clients if an unexpected
“date”- come' up.
Still, baby-sitters from Sydney Uni-
versity’s placement service get a lot of
work during the year and are mostly
paid above the average rate —ss. an hour
and up to 7s.
But at the Stanley Baby-sitting Service
—one of the few established in Sydney
—where Mrs Helga White has been
supplying baby-sitters to nearly 2000
clients over the past eight years, there
are no teenagers. Ages here are mostly
from 40 to 60, and “glamor” is out.
Mrs White interviews all her sitters
and rejects 35 out of 40. “I don’t like
knitters,” she says, surprisingly. “They
are thinking of their patterns instead of
the children.” Nor does she think people
who are extremely well groomed would
make good sitters: “The perfect mani-
cure and hair-do mean that a woman is


“Then at peak-hours We close the throughways and so STAGGER
the traffic !”
thinking more of herself than of her job.”
She does employ some girls in their
early twenties. “After all,” she says,
“you can be just as silly at 60 as you are
at 16, or just as sensible at 22 as anyone
over 40.” But middle-aged women are
generally the most reliable, the most
competent.
Should baby-sitters be paid more?
Many people think they should get at
least the 7s. 3d. an hour paid to domestic
workers. They can be required to cook
meals and prepare bottles for the chil-
dren, bath them, hear their prayers, put
them to bed, get them up again. They
have to take full responsibility for “the
most precious thing in the house” (though
on one occasion this turned out to be
a baby kangaroo in a frilly bassinet) and
to cope with biting, spitting, match-
throwing, tantrums and bluffing.
This bluffing by children is an inter-
esting study, and handling it an art.
When they say, “We always have our
tea in the cubby-house,” they usually
mean that they did this once and are try-
ing to bluff the sitter into making it
always. Even crying after they are put
to bed is generally a bluff. Parents know
this. They advise against saying “What’s
the matter?” to such children because
this gives them an opportunity to think
up something. Instead the sitter should
say, “Now, lie down quietly and go to
sleep,” or, if stern tactics are called for,
“Stop that crying!” If anything is the
matter the child will speak up.
In spite of the skill and subtlety that
must go to the making of a good baby-
sitter, there is little possibility at present
of the general hourly price going above
ss. Agencies that have tried to raise
prices have gone out of business, and
even on the North Shore many people
are battling to keep a mortgage over
their heads. If they cah’t get a sitter
for a reasonable price they will have to
1 stay at home and watch television.
Television caused a lessening in the
demand for baby-sitters for a while ; so
did drive-in theatres. But in both
instances the effect wore-off after about
12 months. People like to go out, even
if the party they go to is more expen-
sive than the spectaculars in their own
lounges. And the suitable-for-children
pictures at drive-ins eventually drive the
parents to city theatres or film-houses in
search of something adult.
Today TV is a blessing to the baby-
sitter, a great entertainer of children and
substitute for story-reading. It involves,
however, the chief reason to be firm. A
baby-sitter must be certain of the child’s
bedtime and stick to it, no matter how
bright the show. It is an advantage in
homes that need baby-sitters, though not
the essential thing.
The essential thing is the means for
making a cup of tea.
☆ ☆ ☆
Climbing Varieties
What does your garden grow status
symbols, or merely flowers? If you
don’t know, it’s about time you found
out —at any rate if you live in Sydney,
where cultivating the right varieties can
be a way of cultivating the right people.
What are Sydney’s best climbing
varieties? Carnations, roses, dahlias and
gladioli have no value at all. They are
beautiful, they are a challenge to the
keen gardener, but that’s about it. Roses
do carry a certain amount of prestige
on the North Shore, but gardeners there
expect you to be knowledgeable about
flowers as well, and you may not know
much about them ; you may only know
that you want to get ahead.
Orchids, in spite of being mixed up
with mink and diamonds in the popular
mind, never get above the suburban, belt.
Indoor plants, in spite of all that’s
wiitten about them, won’t get you far.
They probably won’t get you beyond
striking up an acquaintanceship with one
of the tellers in the Commonwealth Bank,
which is a positive jungle these days, or
with a waitress in the nearest espresso.
Geraniums have been flourishing lately,
and they can serve you quite well;
there’s a nice sort of inverted snobbery
about them.
There are a few points to watch,
though. Most geraniums are really
pelargoniums. As long as you know
which, you’ll be all right. You fall on
a plant which you think is a geranium
with a glad cry of “Ah, a true gera-
nium!” and if you're right you're in.
Geraniums have the advantage of
being very easy to grow. This is a big
thing when you can’t actually spare much
time for gardening. And some of the
people in the Geranium Society can be
very generous with cuttings. Or perhaps
it’s pelargoniums they give away.
Other flowers are better, however.
Rhododendrons, for instance. Unfortu-
nately, they don’t grow well in Sydney,
but if you have a place at Bowral or
Leura and open the grounds to the pub-
lic for two afternoons for the Red Cross
when the flowers are in bloom you're
doing rather nicely.
Azaleas are good, too. But by them-
selves they are not enough. You want
them in combination with camellias.
Camellias in Sydney are more than a
flower ; they are a way of life. They
have everything. They will open the
gates of some of the best houses, even
though you might have to pay ss. for
charity at the entrance.
Probably the best thing about camellias
is that you don’t have to grow them ;
you just have to know them. For the
camellia cult there are some splendid
books to swot up on. If you can con-
fidently name and recognise, say, 100
different varieties, and talk knowledge-
ably of the rare reticulata brought from
Yunnan province to the West within the
past few years, nobody will know or
care whether you have a garden or not.
Frond camellias it’s just a short step to
Ikebana International. Here you learn
patiently to ignore the flowers in your
garden and to do arrangements with one
dry twig and a lump of gravel.
Of the two newest enthusiasms of
this kind, Ikebana is to be recommended
above bonsai. Bonsai requires patience,
a good knowledge of gardening, and
time. It may be several years before
you have a successful bonsai. It may then
be too late.
Stick to Ikebana. Set up a tokonoma,
or Japanese place of meditation, in some
corner of your living-room. You can
then sit cross-legged in front of this and
contemplate your arrangement of a dried
twig and a lump of gravel.
From here it is only a short step to
Zen Buddhism.
And from there —who knows?


SPORT
More Dazzling Cricket Ahead
By PHIL TRESIDDER
Our sporting gold-medal
for 1960 —the West
Indian cricketers who
play with a smile on
their face and a song in their
heart.
Our toast to the . dashing,
dusky Calypso boys who came
here to show us Test cricket is
a game, not a dogfight—and
who in Brisbane proved it.
In a way it was fitting that
Brisbane should stage the
greatest Test of all time. Per-
haps some might think such a
pulsating finish—the first ever
tied Test—should have been
reserved for tradition - clad
Lords, picturesque Sydney
Cricket Ground or historic
Melbourne Cricket Ground.
But this epic Test belonged to
Brisbane, if only to compen-
sate it for the depressing, in-
famous “go-slow” struggle be-
tween Australia and England
just two years earlier.
Australia won that Test.
There was little else to remem-
ber about it, unless you care to
recall the nightmarish, in-
terminable hours in which
Trevor Bailey, of England, in
a performance of strokeless
cussedness, exhausted the good-
will of every cricket-lover.
By rights that should have
been the death-knell of Test
cricket. Little wonder the
sceptics and the cynics a week
or so ago still retained their
grudge and gave this West
Indies-Australia First Test a
wide berth.
There were just 4100 die-
hards in the old ’Gabba ground
to see the breathsnatching,
drama-laden climax to this
great Test. But word had got
out that these West Indians
were as refreshing as the trade
winds from the Caribbean.
Thousands on that last day be-
sieged the G.P.O. service for
Test scores, thousands more
crowded in front of television
sets or sat with their ears glued
to radios.
Not that the radio announ-
cers in the end made much
sense . . . they were as elated,
confused and excited as the
general onlookers. Those final
15 minutes were so jumbled
with incidents that I don’t think
anybody later could clearly
relate them all.
But for everybody there was
the overall, never-to-be-forgot-
ten memory of the giant Bar-
bados fast bowler Hall launch-
ing his fiery speedballs in a
whirl of spidery arms and legs.
Then there was the diminu-
tive British Guiana player,
Joe Solomon, who twice in
those exciting last moments hit
the stumps from side on to run
out Australian batsmen.
Finally, there was the spec-
tacle of the West Indians per-
forming a war-dance on the
’Gabba pitch, their whoops of
joy being echoed by the roar
from the crowd, most of whom
were clambering over the picket
fence to join in the celebra-
tions.
Australia had her heroes,
too —those great all-rounders
Richie Benaud and Alan David-
son, who battled on despite the
depressing fact that half the
side was out for a paltry 57
runs. The stunning thing, of
course, was that Benaud and
Davidson, far from being dis-
couraged, resisted any tempta-
tion to hold out for a draw,
and attacked the West Indian
bowling with furious strokes.
So successful were they that
in about an hour the fluctuat-
ing fortunes had swung so that
it was Australia occupying the
box-seat. In the end, of course,
it was a tie—which was exactly
what it should have been,
because neither side deserved
to lose.
nPHE one disappointing
thought is that this First
Test match will be remembered
in years to come only because
it provided cricket’s greatest
finish. But, in fact, it was a
great Test match from the first
ball to the last.
It began with Alan Davidson
sending back three West Indian
batsmen in the opening hour’s
play with superb swing
bowling
Then Garfield Sobers a
compact, athletic Barbados left-
hander with a world-record
score under his belt—unleashed
a memorable batting assault on
the Australian attack. It took
him just 125 minutes to reach
a century ; his first against Aus-
tralia. So devastating was his
power-hitting that in the end
scorebook statistics told a story
of 21 smashing boundaries hit
against Australian bowlers.
The fire of youth, in the
shape of young Sobers, was
neatly balanced by the matured,
majestic strokemaking of his
partner, 36-year-old West
Indies captain Frank Worrell.
Here was a superb study for
cricket enthusiasts—a perfect
blending of the greats, the
young and the old.
Gerry Alexander and Wesley
Hall were other West Indies
batting heroes, adding to the
mounting tally of boundary
hits.
The Australian innings was
a slightly more sedate affair,
the scoreboard attendant noting
that he had time to light a
cigarette, in contrast to the
previous innings, when he
worked in a constant sweat.
' Norman O’Neill made 181,
laying the foundations for the
Australians to pass West Indies
first-innings total.
It was all Alan Davidson
after that. His. beauti-
fully varied pace and swing
accounted for six West Indies
second-innings victims ; giving
him 11 in all for the match.
Thus he equalled Grimmett and
Ironmonger, who had achieved
a similar feat in a Test against
the West Indies.
It would have been remem-
bered as Alan Davidson’s Test,
sighed one critic, except for
that incredible finish.
Davidson and skipper
Benaud took a turn with the
bat and belabored the West
Indies bowlers to place Aus-
tralia in sight of victory. In-
cidentally, how Australian
cricket will mourn the loss of
these two great all-rounders
when their turn comes to hang
up their hoots!
It seemed only a miracle
could break the Davidson-
Benaud stand. This Test had
everything else, so it produced
the miracle in the form of Joe
Solomon, who threw down the
stumps from side on. And
just to prove it was no fluke
he did it next over with Aus-
tralia’s lan Meckiff just one-
foot short of the batting crease
and the run that would give his
team victory!
We can now settle down to
a most absorbing series, with
the second Test about to start
in Melbourne’s spacious arena.
The West Indies had previously
succeeded in whetting Mel-
bourne’s appetite. Little British
Guiana player Rohan Kanhai,
a bundle of whipcord muscle,
made 252 "against Victoria a
month or so back.
'T'est cricket in Australia can
thank the West Indians for
giving the game a blood-trans-
fusion. The tourists play it
with an infectious zest and
verve. They love cricket, think
about it, talk about it, even
play it with a short-handled
bat in the dressing-room when
it is raining outside.
Probably none of them could
tell you his individual average
this tour —which is the most
refreshing thing about them.
They are a happy group of
warriors. Never a hard word
passes among them.
They have in Frank Worrell
—the first colored man to
captain the West Indies on
tour —a magnificent leader. He
captains as he bats —cool and
shrewd, bold and inspiring.
The West Indian players idolise
him. He is their King.
It says much, too, for. the
Australians versatility in


start the day right!
'ft
■
tesr
LO' 1 * 0
v*M
6HO £W
V.M
Vl**C
b6^J"
c
PROTECT
YOUR
ASS ETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
?S YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
1000 Different Whole World
Stamps 17/6 or 500 Different
For 8/6. Both Post Free.
R. C. Walker,
377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
Member Australian Stamp Dealers’
Association.
•mpf
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
j Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
cricket that they were able to
answer in kind the bright,
attractive play of the West
Indian visitors.
Just two years ago our ace
players, Benaud, Davidson,
McDonald, Harvey and O’Neill
were locked in the grim
campaign against Peter May’s
Englishmen. If England
wanted to play it tough—
what English Test team didn’t?
—then Benaud’s men would
accommodate them. And did.
Now, with the memory of
those dogfights far behind, the
Australians have thrown them-
selves into this breezy series as
though a weight had been lifted
from their shoulders.
Not that this West Indies
series is a lighthearted affair.
Those batsmen who have had
to take the brunt of Wesley
Hall’s thunderbolts know just
how serious it all is. Colin
McDonald, who is not so
sprightly as some of his col-
leagues, will carry the trade-
mark of a brand of cricket ball
on his ribs over the Festive
season. He found that Test
cricket in Brisbane was similar
to the schoolboy game called
“brandings.”
The Australian batsmen are
not likely to eclipse in fast
times and spectacular hitting
the performances of the West
Indies in this series, because
our men are not so gifted in
daring strokemaking. Batting
fundamentals and the necessity
to lay the foundations for an
innings have been drilled into
our players.
Still, Richie Benaud has, by
example, shown the spirit in
which the remaining Tests are
to be played.
TTanging over this West
Indies series for every Aus-
tralian player is the much
coveted tour of England just
around the corner. So there is
an added strain, especially for
players like Meckiff, Favell and
Mackay, who must be un-
certain just how they rate in
the selectors’ plans.
The plain fact is that all is
not well in Australia’s current
strength with the defence of
the Ashes in England just a few
months away.
Meckiff’s severe mauling in
Brisbane focused attention on
our most vulnerable spot. Alan
Davidson stands alone among
our new-ball bowlers —there is
not a consistent performer to
support him. This is serious
enough against the West Indies
—it could be disastrous on a
tour of England.
Australia over the years has
rampaged through the English
counties with such fast-bowling
giants as Gregory, MacDonald,
Miller, Lindwall, McCormick
and Bill Johnston.
One shudders to contemplate
what would happen to our Test
XI if Davidson broke down,
as has happened on past tours.
Remember, he is now 31, and
the heavy burden of batting
and fast bowling must be taking
toll of him.
The fadeout of lan Meckiff
in Brisbane was most dis-
appointing to our selectors,
who must have banked on
him among their team-building
plans. Perhaps the big, like-
able Victorian lefthander will
make a comeback. But an
alteration irf action, plus the
strain of 'a nagging overseas
press, seems to have dampened
his spirit and destroyed his
fire.
The remaining Tests may see
the national selectors introduce
some bright young players. We
will need them for England.
Perhaps these faces could in-
clude: Peter Trethewy and
John Lill (South Australia),
Brian Booth, Frank Misson
(N.S.W.), John Potter (Vic-
toria), Graham McKenzie and
Des Hoare (Western Australia).
It’s an important summer, in
which we have to keep one eye
on those West Indians, another
on the tour to England.
It’s a stimulating summer,
too, thanks to the visit of
Frank Worrell’s Calypso
cricketers, who have given Test
matches a new status in this
country.
' * * *
"Interesting feature of the
sensational Brisbane Test
match was the number of left-
hand bowlers—six of them:
Davidson, Meckiff and Kline
for Australia, Worrell, Sobers
and Valentine for the West
Indies. Wally Grout’s record
of never having been on the
losing side in a Test match (18
appearances for Australia)
nearly went by the board
during that amazing last over
which lasted for 11 minutes.
As a spectator, I found it
difficult to give a coherent
account of the events of those
last few minutes. Everything
happened so swiftly, even the
players in the drama appeared
bewitched, bothered and be-
wildered. —“Mitron.”
* * *
doubt the youngest
generation of Test hope-
fuls are getting inspiration
from the bright West Indians,
and as well some of them at
least are currently getting the
right sort of lead on to lively
cricket. They’re getting it
from an old-timer at that—in
fact, one of the very oldest.
- Tutor on these lines is
Clarrie Hogue, who, after play-
ing cricket for the full three
score years and ten —as
against a mere 57 years by Dr
Grace —has now joined a team
of enthusiasts of North Syd-
ney District Cricket Club to
coach the young hopefuls on
Saturday mornings at the local
oval.
At 81 years young, Clarrie
has launched a “five-year plan
for bringing a premiership to
North Sydney by means of
brighter play.” Addressing the
nippers, whose ages range
from nine to 14, he urges them
to attack all the time; tells
them that 50 and 60 years back
it was common every season
to see 500 runs scored in an
afternoon of four hours’ play,
from 2 p.m. till 6 p.m.
He quotes off the cuff such
examples as South Sydney,
captained by Karl Quist in a
match at Sydney Cricket
Ground, scoring about 540 in
an afternoon’s play, or North
Sydney scoring well over 500
for six wickets, also inside the
four hours. Paddington, with
Vic Trumper and Alf Noble
leading the van, in several sea-
sons made over 500 in an
afternoon.
Outstanding performance of
all these brighter cricket efforts,
says the veteran tutor, was
that of Vic Trumper scoring
339 in 189 minutes. The total
that afternoon “must have
been about 600 runs.”
* * *
Sheffield Shield first-day record
was scored on December 22, 1939,
at Adelaide Oval, when South
Australia finished with 5-553
against Queensland. Opening-
bat Ken Ridings (a brother of
recent S.A. skipper Phil Ridings,
and considered certain to be a
Test player before he was lost in
air-operations over Europe) made
151, his highest Shield score;
Bradman made 138 and Jack Bad-
cock 172 not-out. S.A. declared
next day at 7-821, to win by an
innings and 232 runs.


One For the Golden Slipper
By JOHN SCHOFIELD
Sydney Turf Club’s Golden Slipper Stakes —richest
■*" two-year-old race in the Southern Hemisphere—has
so far been the close preserve of Australian breeders,
but it may alter next March, when the race is run again
A chestnut colt called Commanding is to be brought across
from New Zealand, and he seems to have all the qualifica-
tions to be the winner.
By Knight’s Romance from Qualify, a mare by
Balloch from First Round, by Nightly from Knock Out,
Commanding won three races in succession when brought
out for his debut. He won the Karitane Handicap at
Wellington, running the five furlongs in 58|sec., and the
Welcome Stakes at Christchurch over the same distance
in 58sec. He was then put into a handicap, was given 9.7,
and led all the way to beat Pride o’ Cally, who, on 7.13,
was closest to him in the weights!
The family Commanding belongs to was originally
Australian. It was established in New Zealand when
Elusive, a V.R.C. Oaks winner, and her sister Delusive
were taken there towards the end. of last century. From
those mares have descended many top-class gallopers,
among them several outstanding two-year-olds. The
winners include Surveyor, Winning Hit, Fast Passage,
Cricket Bat, Synagogue and Waterline, to mention suffici-
ent for identification. Waterline was the horse that caused
a major upset by beating Phar Lap in the C. M. Lloyd
Stakes at Flemington.
'T'his has been a poor racing year for Her Majesty the
Queen —in fact, her worst season’s racing. According
to figures available to the end of September, she has had
only one win, and that an unimportant event with a prize
of £458. Still, in her short association with the Turf,
Queen Elizabeth has headed the winning owners’ list
twice —a score no reigning Monarch had ever equalled.
In 1953 the Queen was 13th in the list, with nine
races won and £12,409 in stakes. The following year she
was top owner, with 19 races and £40,993. From then on
her record is: 1955, 17th, 12 races and £10,570; 1956,
9th, 15 races and £16,529 ; 1957, Ist, 30 races and £62,211 ;
1958, 2nd, 21 races and £47,416; 1959, 3rd, 16 races
and £38,137.
Horses racing in the Royal colors come from two
studs—-those bred by Her Majesty and trained by Cecil
Boyd-Rochfort, and those from the National Stud, which
are leased to Her Majesty and trained by Noel Murless.
In 1933 a filly was bought at Newmarket Sales for
3000 guineas. This filly, Feola, was not outstanding as a
racer, but at the stud she had 10 foals —eight of them
fillies. They included seven winners, who succeeded in
23 races worth £28,000. Her sixth foal was Angelola, by
Donatello II; and, mated with Hyperion, Angelola pro-
duced Aureole, reported to be Her Majesty’s most loved
racehorse.
Aureole won seven races, including the prized King
George VI and Queen Elizabeth Stakes.
/~\f all the “greats,” none had done so much for English
breeding as the world-famed stallion Hyperion, who
lately died in England just as his son Aureole became
assured of first place in the winning sires’ list there.
Hyperion was 30 years old, and had been in retirement for
a couple of years ; and no country in the world is without
his strain.
Hyperion’s first crop raced in 1938, and for the next
ten years or more he dominated racing and breeding. One
Australian connection is that from his second crop came
Stardust, who began his stud career in 1941, when
Hyperion was at the height of his glory. Stardust was
an outstanding horse by any means, but he sired Star King-
dom (imp.), who went to the Baramul Stud in the Widden
Valley of N.S.W. in 1951. Star Kingdom has been top sire
of two-year-olds each year since his first crop raced in 1954,
and was again top sire in the general list last season, with
38 winners of 79 races and £77,515 in stakes.
The late F. W. Hughes brought one of the first sons
of Hyperion to Australia. This was Titan (imp.), who had
a short career and was not a great success. Then came
Helios (imp.), one of the best sires Australia has known in
recent years. However, by and large, the sons of Hyperion
were not as successful here as they were in, say, the
U.S.A., where Heliopolis, Alibhai and Khaled were out-
standing.
Casanova in Sweden, Selim Hassan in the Argentine,
Aldis Lamp in Belgium, Gulf Stream and Deimos in
South Africa all did well. New Zealand has had great
success with sons of Hyperion, notably with Red Mars
(imp.), the sire of the great stayer Redcraze, and also with
the consistent sire of stayers, Ruthless (imp.).
TV/Tany who go racing in these times will remember Los
Gatos, who was by Absurd (imp.), and who won
the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes and the V.R.C. Ascot
Vale Stakes. Now her grandson, Timber Town, following
an impressive win in Trial Stakes company at Moonee
Valley, is being spoken of in Melbourne as a strong con-
tender for the Australian Cup (2m. at the V.R.C.
autumn meeting. 1
The curious part about it all is that Timber Town
was sent from the country to Melbourne to become a
hurdler, but all that the schooling has done is to develop
in him an unsuspected ability to stay. Certainly he will
not be a hurdler of any account —he is anything but
impressive at schooling.
Timber Town is by Woodburn (imp.), one of the
best-performed sons of the great stallion Bois Roussel, who
has had a tremendous influence on breeding throughout
the world. Woodburn won five races and dead-heated in
another, winning over distances up to 2\ miles. His dam
was by Hyperion and his grand-dam by Grand Parade.
But for all that racing performance and his attractive
pedigree he was not very successful at the stud.
An ancestress of Timber Town was the mare Jose-
phine, who was bred in New Zealand, but whose
descendants were not eligible for inclusion in the Aus-
tralian Stud Book for many years, though they are now
accepted as thoroughbred.
Most of the family have been sprinters, but there was
one notable exception—Nonette, who raced early in the
century. Credited with being one of the greatest stayers
bred up to that time in New Zealand, Nonette won over all
distances, and was rated at 9.9 for a New Zealand Cup.
Perhaps Timber Town has inherited some of Nonette’s
quality.


Business, Robbery. ETC.
The Outlook for 1961
TTnderlying the surface indi-
cations of speculative boom
and market slump in Australia
is the undeniable fact that there
remains a strong demand for
domestic housing in the still-
expanding community, as well
as for public works and factory
equipment.
But the immediate outlook
for 1961 is largely dictated by
the wage-policy that was fol-
lowed in the Federal sphere in
1959.
The inflationary effect of that
policy, which was preceded by
the Federal M.Ps.’ salary-rises,
has created problems of ex-
cessive costs and excessive
purchasing-power (boosted by
consumer-credit facilities on an
extensive scale) at a time when
overseas prices are falling and
costs of production in other
countries are being more effec-
tively curbed than in Aus-
tralia.
Other additives to wage-
inflation have been an inflow
of overseas capital, not only
direct investment, but also
portfolio investment from the
world’s hotspots and other
places.
All these things have assisted
in a speculative boom in share
prices and land values which
now seems to have been sharply
punctured.
Underneath the froth and
bubble of the boom there has
been real development, expan-
sion, modernisation and in-
creased mechanical efficiency in
Australian industry. There has
been notable improvement in
productivity through greater
plant-efficiency and higher out-
put induced by increasing
population.
Few of the major industries
have so far been able to hand
on to their shareholders any-
thing like the full benefit of
their long-range plans for ex-
pansion. Most have been keep-
ing their dividends down in
order to help finance the cost
of this development. Wages
policy, taxation and credit
policy have been against
reasonable divs.
Taking inflation into account,
comparatively few major Aus-
tralian companies have a good
dividend record over the past
20 years.
One of the dangerous aspects
of the Australian economy at
present is the attitude of the
Federal Treasury, which seems
to have forgotten that private-
enterprise capital is the only
kind of capital known to man,
and that Government “enter-
prise” is by nature a secondary
consideration.
Governments, or Treasuries,
do not create capital. But it is
their job to assist in its
creation, not to hinder it.
In order to get its loans
filled the Treasury in the future
will need to encourage private
enterprise to create more of the
capital necessary for both
private and public capital
works. Otherwise inflation will
go on its devastating way, cer-
tainly wiping-out the burden on
the Treasury of indebtedness to
bondholders, but creating more
and more hazards for the capi-
tal-making efforts of private
enterprise.
T ooking at prospects for
1961, the following fea-
tures show up fairly clearly:
The Australian sharemarket
having fallen by over 20 p.c.,
and still sagging more than
three months after the peak
was passed on September 16,
speculators are likely by now
to have learnt a lesson that will
induce greater caution during
1961 regardless of how the
economy fares as a whole.
Speculation in land is being
dampened along with specula-
tion in shares. Land is more
onerous to hold than shares in
a falling market, and there is
consequently less activity now
in buying land other than for
prospective use by the buyer.
The year ends with credit
particularly tight, with pros-
pects of even tighter conditions
early in the new year, probably
reaching a critical point in-
March or A pril.
An all-round improvement is
expected in the second half of
1961.
There is at present little
prospect of an early recovery
in export prices sufficient to
ease the balance-of-payments
problem.
Imports will have to be
reduced by some means during
1961 in the face of faltering
exports.
It is unlikely that the general
economic position would be
permitted to deteriorate to the
point where sheer lack of pur-
chasing-power on the part of
the general public would cause
a fall in imports, since such a
situation would mean a break-
down of the national employ-
ment policy.
In view of the fall in the
Australian sharemarkets and
the heavy drop in turnover it
is unlikely that qverseas port-
folio-investors will be as keen
to invest in Australia as they
were in the first nine months
of 1960, even though most
shares now are far better buy-
ing, on a price basis, than they
were in September this year.
This suggests that the inflow
of overseas capital will not be
as great in the first half of 1961,
and that more specific measures
to deal with an outflow of
funds through excessive import-
ing are almost certain to be
introduced.
By whatever means imports
are reduced, manufacturers in
Australia are likely to receive
more protection against over-
seas products as time goes by.
The drift in the balance-of-
payments position seems sure
to bring this about.
Assuming that the Govern-
ment’s short-cut and Socialistic
method of dealing with inflation
does not go too far —it adds
inequity to existing inequity,
and is doubtful Constitutionally
—there should be less specular
tion and more real industrial
development during 1961 than
in 1960. But f undamental
inequities in the Federal
Treasury’s taxation system,
combined with a national wage-
fixing policy that disregards the
full facts of economic life and
seems to look upon exports and
the balance-of-payments as a
foreign affair, will remain a
hindrance to full development
of our industrial resources until
they are set right
Already talk of proposed
Federal action in the hire-
purchase field has had a blast-
ing effect on hire-purchase
operations and on the popu-
larity of h.-p. as an investment.
It seems hardly necessary to go
further, in view of the shaken
state of investors’ nerves both
here and overseas.
In summary, it would appear
that there will be some sharp
readjustments in 1961, but
essential industry should not
falter greatly in its stride.
Speculative building will
slacken. Provided arbitration
policy does not pass to wage-
earner consumers all the
benefits of the increased pro-
ductivity which is now flow-
ing from the investment (in
modern plant and equipment)
of the funds of the savers
rather than the spenders, the
industrial development of the
Commonwealth should acceler-
ate rather than slow down,
especially so in the case of
secondary industry.
The first impact of higher
wage-rates and lower selling-
prices has had to be borne by
the proprietary side of industry
(i.e., shareholders in industrial
companies). Between inflation-
ary wage-policy and Federal
taxation policy, topped-off by
the competition of unrestricted
imports, some sections of Aus-
tralian industry will be going
through a difficult period. But
it is a situation which cannot
be tolerated for long without
undermining the full-employ-
ment policy which the Govern-
ment aims to support.
Over 5 p.c.
/~j_ooD stocks now yielding 5
P-c. or more, and well
down on their previous highest
market-prices, include Bank of
N.S.W. £2O shares at £32 10s.
(5.5 p.c.), National Bank at
265. 6d. (6.8 p.c.), Commercial
of Sydney at £lB ss. (6.2 p.c.),
Allied Mills at 375. (5.4 p.c.),
Associated Pulp at 425. (5.2
p.c.), Australian Paper Manu-
facturers at 265. (6.2 p.c.), Aus-
tralian Woollen Mills at 245.
(9.2 p.c.), B. J. Ball at Bs. 9d.
(5.7 p.c.), Bradford Cotton at
9s. 3d. (6.7 p.c.), Edwards Dun-
lop 365. 6d. (5.5 p.c.), Email
Bs. 2d. (6.1 p.c.), E.Z. Industries
19s. 3d. (5.8 p.c.), Fairymead
Sugar 30s. 3d. (5 p.c.), F. J.
Walker 235. 9d. (6.3 p.c.), Ford
Sherington Bs. 9d. (5.7 p.c.),
Frederic Ash 455. (6.7 p.c.),
Gillespie Bros. 14s. 6d. (5.5
p.c.), Gordon and Gotch 15s.
9d. (5.3 p.c.), Hodgsons Hold-
ings 14s. (7 p.c.), N.K.S. Hold-
ings 245. 6d. (6.5 p.c.), Optical
Industries 235. (5.4 p.c.), Swans
41s. 6d. (6 p.c.).
A. and R. Poll
HThe chairman’s (and
“writers’ ”) ticket won the
day at the Angus and Robert-
son shareholders’ meeting in
Sydney on December 16 in the
voting proportions of over 3-2.
The board will be Norman
Cowper (chairman), A. G.
Cousins, G. A. Ferguson, N. H.
Routley, Gerald Packer, Dr
Colin Roderick and W. V.
Burns. The largest shareholder
in A. and R., A. N. Swain, was
defeated, and W. V. Burns is
the only member of the incom-
ing board who was not on the
chairman’s “ticket.”
It is to be hoped that lessons
have been learned on both
sides, and that harmonious and
profitable conduct of this his-
toric publishing business will
now follow.


LIMITE
PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION LTD.
£300,000
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock.
LONG TERM
o
o
PER ANNUM
FOR
3 to 8 YEARS
7
o/
/o
O
PER
ANNUM
FOR 2 YEARS
APPLICATIONS FOR DEBENTURE STOCK OF 2 YEARS AND OVER
RECEIVED ON OR BEFORE 31 ST DECEMBER 1960 HAVE THE SPECIAL
RIGHT OF PARTICIPATION
IN THE FORTHCOMING ISSUE OF ORDINARY SHARES BY
WYNYARD HOLDINGS LIMITED.
SHORT TERM
06£% per annum for 12 months 06% per annum for 9 months
0 5i% per annum for 6 months 04 j% per annum for 3 months
Applications will be accepted only on the application form
attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
• Any Branch of the English, Scottish and Australian Bank
Limited.-'* Project Development Corporation Limited, 291
George Street, SYDNEY. * Any member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
BROKERS for the ISSUE: William Tilley, Hudson,
Evans & Co., (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
Clarke & Co., (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melb.).
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
291 George Street, Sydney.
Please forward a Prospectus with Application Form to
NAME
ADDRESS ~ -
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members oj Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address; “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 <4 Lines) i*-0. Box No. 1887 W
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
*
IrandX
SfcBBBMRsS ANPt
Australia’s
Better Brandy
STAGINGS
Pot-stm brandy
2t£NT
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGINGS
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RF.NMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR AN GOVE'S WIN!
Australian Gypsum Industries
Vl7ith the listing of Australian
” Gypsum Industries ss.
shares on December 15, the old
£1 shares of Australian Gyp-
sum, Victor Electric Plaster and
Peninsula Plaster disappeared
from the Stock Exchange lists,
and instead of these one Syd-
ney and two Melbourne hold-
ing-cos. there will be one
national holding-co. engaged in
a key industry and with a share-
register total of 10,500,000 ss.
shares (£2,625,000).
In the present merging of
holding-cos. (there has always
been only one major co. con-
trolling the operating - cos.)
there has been no writing-up
of capital—merely a slight
adjustment in the way of a
proposed distribution to share-
holders to come from each co.’s
assets outside the gypsum in-
dustry.
Control of working opera-
tions will remain with Austra-
lian Gypsum Products Pty.,
Ltd. This company and its
subsidiaries have built-up the
capacity and finances of the
group to the present promis-.
ing position without asking
shareholders for a penny of
capital over the past 40 years.
In 1959 there was no over-
draft. At June 30, 1960, it was
only £75,535, although the
greatest programme of expan-
sion in the group’s history is
now nearing completion, and
expanding turnover has called
for greater working-capital.
Apart from sundry creditors
and accruals, the only liabili-
ties then were of the inter-
group variety.
The snugness of the finances
shows-up in this tabulated
(June 30 last) comparison:
Australian Gypsum Products Pty.,
Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
1959. 1960.
£ £
Paid capital held by—
Australian Gypsum 550,000 550,000
Victor Electric. . 550,000 550,000
Peninsula Plaster 275,000 275,000
Reserves . . . . 1,909,891 2,243,395
Intangible-assets re-
serve . . . . 901,892 907,335
Overdraft . . . . 75,535
Creditors and tax
provision .. 711,030 894,043
Deposits 68,750 137,500
4,966,563 5,632,808
Freeholds, lease-
holds . . . . 1,742,254 1,900,804
Plant, equipment.. 1,904,675 2,245,381
3,646,929 4,206,185
Less depreciation.. 1,277,053 1,444,894
2,369,876 2,761,291
Shares associated
cos 85,914 97,914
Stocks .. .. 565,007 552,160 v
Debtors .. .. 809,903 1,062,980
Cash and deposits 233,971 251,128
Goodwill, patents,
excess over par-
value .. .. 901,892 907,335
4,966,563 5,632,808
Group stocks at £552,160
appear to be conservatively
valued, and seem to represent
no more than one year’s true
profit. Stock values have been
progressively reduced over the
past three years, while debtors
have gone up each term.
Fixed assets appear at
£4,206,185, less depreciation
reserve of £1,444,894, or
£2,761,291 net.
If all the depreciation is
deducted from plant, that item
would appear at about £BOO,OOO
net, against cost of £2,245,381.
Most of the co.’s gypsum is
mined at Kowulka (S.A.), from
where it is railed 67 miles to
the jetty at Thevenard. In 1961
it will be loaded into ships by
conveyor-belt instead of the
ships’ grabbing-gear. Smaller
quantities of gypsum are pro-
cured from the group’s mines
at Ivanhoe in N.S.W. and the
Victorian Mallee.
From the gypsum, plaster-of-
paris is produced, and from
this fibrous - plaster sheeting,
cornices and plaster-board are
made at the group’s various
mills. Gypsum is also used as
a fertiliser and in making
cement.
The group also produces per-
lite lightweight aggregate, in-
sulwool, acoustic materials,
chalks and pastels, and Burgess
micro-switches, while it also
distributes Rodene process-
timers.
The co. is top-dog in the
gypsum industry in Australia.
Its chief competitor is the
C.S.R., which, while expanding
rapidly, has not caught-up
with A.G.P. There has been
ample room for both groups


A-NZ BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAYINGS BANK LIMITED
A-N-Z
ABRIDGED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT
30th SEPTEMBER, 1960
(Excluding Inter-Bank Balances)
(Expressed in Australian Currency)
LIABILITIES
Paid up Capital of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited
Reserve Fund and Profit and Loss
Account Balances
Current, Deposit and other Accounts
Acceptances and other Engagements for
Customers
£A
12,801,000
11,465,419
514,728,680
44,676,516
£A583,671,615
GENERAL MANAGER’S OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND, FIJI, PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA:
394-396 Collins Street, Melbourne
PRINCIPAL OFFICE IN NEW ZEALAND:
196 Featherston Street, Wellington
HEAD OFFICE: 71 Cornhill, London, E.C.3
Hugh D. T. Williamson, General Manager
telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hudsonian” Brisbane
J. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
F. B. Charlton, J. F. Charlton. J. M. Fay, C.A.B. Marjason, J. L. Russell
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange .)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third Floor, City Mutual Building, 309 Queen St., Brisbane
Telephone: 2 2775, 2 4349 G.P.O. Box No. 61A
MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mcldens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
RWBI7I Tq le ?« h °«\ Cables and Telegrams
» 81il (3 lines) BL 5327 “EMDECELEX,” Sydney
in the expanding Australian
economy.
A.G.P.’s new Port Mel-
bourne plaster-mill, the largest
in Australia, will be in produc-
tion in the first half of 1961.
A new mill has been operating
in Brisbane since November,
1959, and extensions to the
Sydney and Adelaide mills have
recently been completed.
During the 1959-60 term
record sales were achieved.
After providing an extra
£35,412 for depreciation
(£235,408) and £66,396 more for
income - tax (£387,396), net
profit was £45,275 higher at
£503,283, including an un-
changed £lOO,OOO earmarked
for increased cost of plant-
replacement :
Australian Gypsum Products Pty.,
Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Jne.,Profits. Dividends, serves. serves,*
£ £ £ £
Profit sale fixed assets,
£4685 . . . . . . 1,144,747
’57..334,963 117,250 217,733 1,362,580
Tax written-back, £18,633 1,381,213
Profit sale assets, £9415 .. 1,390,628
Shares, subsidiaries, w/down
to par, net, £36,746 . . 1,353,882
’58..387,683 137,500 250,183 1,604,065
Shares, subsidiaries, w/down
to par, net, £23,046 .. 1,581,019
Tax written-back, £4246.. 1,585,265
Profit sale assets, £4118.. 1,589,383
’59..458,008 137,500 320,508 1,909,891
Reserve for intangibles,
£901,892 .. .. 2,811,783
Tax written-back, £951.. 2,812,734
Profit sale assets, £7516 .. 2,820,250
Asset revaluation,
£102,197 .. .. 2,922,447
’60..503,283 275,000 228,283 3,150,730
* Subject to intangibles, £907,335 at
June 30, 1960.
This figure was equal to 19.1
p.c. on the capital of the new
listed unified holding-co. But
if the profit be calculated
according to taxation provision,
profit was more like 22.1 p.c.
The dividend paid to the public
shareholders for the year was
10 p.c.
This is equal to 20 p.c. on
their capital as it stood before
last year’s one-for-one bonus-
issue.
Chairman Raymont Moore,
in his report to shareholders,
commented that “the expansion
programme being undertaken,
including particularly the erec-
tion of the new plaster-mill at
Port Melbourne, calls for
heavy capital expenditure,
hence your directors consider
it necessary to retain a reason-
able proportion of the year’s
profit to assist in financing such
capital expenditure.”
It seems reasonable to assume
that, when such expenditure
slackens-off in the first half of
1961, there will be less need
to retain profits and more like-
lihood of a higher rate of dis-
tribution. Also that the new
Melbourne factory should allow
greater and more profitable
production.
Australian Gypsum Indus-
tries depends largely on the
building and construction
trades, and at the moment
credit-restrictions seem likely
to affect these. But there is
still an immense amount of
construction under way, which
should be sufficient to keep
manufacturers of building-
materials busy until the present
imbalance in our economic set-
up is overcome. In his report
dated September 16, the chair-
man commented that with the
increasing population and the
growing proportion of the com-
munity reaching the marriage-
able age, “it would seem that
the rate of housing must con-
tinue to grow if our people are
to be satisfactorily accommo-
dated.”
All in all, the ss. shares of
Australian Gypsum Industries
at 11s. in the closing market
for 1960 seem to be worth
pondering over during the holi-
days and watching when the
market reopens for 1961. They
yield 4.5 p.c. at 11s., which is
a satisfactory rate from a key
stock of this class and with its
attractive record and long-
term prospects.
Setback in Tokyo
[From Canberra]
Come people are beginning to
wonder if the Trade
Department had been ill-
advised to open negotiations
in Tokyo for a renewal of the
Australia-Japan Trade Agree-
ment at the exact time it did.
General elections were due
in Japan within six weeks of
the opening of the talks early
in October, and the opinion
is growing that because of this
the Japanese negotiators
couldn’t be expected to commit
their Government to any
undertakings because of the
uncertainty of what regime
would be in power after the
polls.
As a result, the talks broke
down when Australia couldn’t
get sufficient guarantees on the
proposed liberalisation of
imports into Japan of certain
agricultural products.
It also appears that the
Japanese took a much tougher
line on recognition as a
GATT member than was
anticipated by the Australians
when they left Australia.
Under GATT, unilateral
action cannot be taken against
imports from any individual
country. Restrictions must
apply equally to all supplier
countries.
Unless this problem can be
overcome it is possible the
talks will bog-down again
when they are resumed in
February or March next.


THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
In Stagnant Queensland
By M. H. ELLIS
Tt is an axiom in the publicity
of Queensland that the
northern State is endowed
with unlimited resources, fairly
fizzing with progress and de-
velopment ; in fact, the up-
and-coming part of the Com-
monwealth.
This is tfiue of less than one-
third of it. The remainder
presents a picture of stagna-
tion of population and settle-
ment, of scattered inhabitants
engaged in industries made
precarious by drought and in-
sufficient communications.
The real development goes
on along the east coast. Ex-
cept for the Darling Downs it
is mostly along a narrow shelf
of Pacific littoral, at its widest
not much more than 150 miles
in from the sea.
Before 1914 it was a rare
session of the Queensland or
the Commonwealth Parliament
that did not see new legisla-
tion and stirring debate on the
development of what used to
be called “the Great Outback,”
a land of fabulous possibili-
ties. The years immediately
before World War I saw vast
plans for providing it with
communications linking with
those of the Northern Terri-
tory. But the Great Outback
has become an almost for-
gotten kingdom.
Its inhabitants are disillu-
sioned to a large extent. The
tendency yearly grows for new
people to huddle in the little
south-east corner of the State
between Bundaberg and the
N.S.W. border, between the sea
and the outer limits of the
Darling Downs —mostly, and
increasingly, along the sea-
beaches, to farm southern
tourists rather than the land.
To a lesser degree there has
been expansion of population
and industry in one or two
compact coastal pockets based
on Rockhampton in central
Queensland and along the sea-
coast from Mackay to Cairns
in the north.
Apart from this, any growth
of population north of the
Tropic and west of the Divid-
ing Range is small. In some
districts there is actual de-
cline. In one or two there has
been substantial increase all in
one spot. Other districts which
have had the advantage of rail-
way communication with a rea-
This, the first of two
articles dealing with the
problems of developing the
vast neglected areas of the
big northern State, traces
the extent of its stagna-
tion. Next week’s article
deals with possible reme-
dies and ways of realis-
ing its unique potential.
sonably adjacent port have be-
come almost derelict, along
with the railways serving
them.
Queensland’s position as a
State is unique because 85.6
per cent, of all its lands are
Crown Lands held under
various tenures ranging in size
from agricultural selections of
160 acres or even less, up to
pastoral leases many of
which embrace 500 square-
miles in the sheep districts and
1500 square-miles or more for
cattle.
Nearer to the coast better
grazing-selections are round
20,000 acres for sheep and
60,000 acres for cattle, leased
on terms up to 28 years with
reappraisal for rental every
seven years.
Thus, in a State over 25
times the size of Tasmania, the
responsibility for development
policy is squarely in the lap of
Governments in respect of the
whole State, except for the
alienated area equal to only
about R times the useable
part of Tasmania.
Indeed, outside the south-
east corner, embracing the
area south of Bundaberg and
east of the Condamine coun-
try, whatever intensive local
growth has taken place has
been due to the initiative of
large-scale private enterprise:
the Mt Isa Company, for
example.
Tn 1911 the population of
A Queensland was 605,000, and
the population of the area now
included in Greater Brisbane
was 139,000, or 23 per cent.
of the whole State. The per-
centage of people in the capi-
tal in relation to the rest had
been declining since 1891.
In 1958-59 Brisbane’s popu-
lation was estimated at 559,000,
or nearly 40 per cent, of the
State’s population of 1.4 mil-
lion.
Out of the State’s total of
667,000 square-miles, 360,000
square-miles are in the tropics,
This area carries 300,000
people Central Queensland,
made up of Rockhampton
holding 44,000 of them on 62
square-miles, and Mackay,
Pioneer, Townsville, Ayr,
Charters Towers, Cairns,
Hinchinbrook, Johnstone and
Mulgrave municipalities and
shires roughly 160,000 on 5700
square-miles ; leaving only a
little over 100,000 occupying
the remaining 354,000-odd
square-miles of the tropic
North: less than one to every
three square-miles.
What applies to the tropics
also applies to the West.
Here is the position of the
five northern and western dis-
tricts comprising 465,000
square-miles, or 70 per cent, of
Queensland:
Area:
Square- Popu-
miles. lation.
Cape York .. 48,693 6,200
North West .. 146,760 21,710
Far West .. 108,875 5,460
Central West .. 71,160 23,130
South West .. 89,807 15,600
465,295 72,100
But this does not tell the
worst about this enormous
area (R-times the size of
N.S.W. and over five-times
the size of Victoria), which
carries less adults than there
are in most individual Federal
electorates in the south.
HThe strangest anomaly is that
the least-populated large
accessible area along the main
western stock-routes is the
Channel country, which in the
main is in the shires of Boulia,
Diamantina, Barcoo and
Bulloo, in which a total (1958)
of 2720 people live on an area
of 112,,395 square-miles—equal
to the size of Victoria and
Tasmania put together.
The Channel clover land was
described by the Sunners Royal
Commission, appointed by the
Queensland Government at the
end of World War 11, as a
cattle-fattening land “which
the sown alfalfa fields of
Argentina cannot surpass.”
“Designed by nature,” the
commissioners wrote, “it would
seem impossible to find its
equal in the world.” Yet it
carries one inhabitant to every
41 square-miles.
The populations of several
huge shires have gone steadily
backwards, especially in the
Gulf country. This recession
is obvious in some since the
war, in others in a marked de-
gree in actual figures—leaving
"The foot, stupid, not the head.”


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSON &
O’SUE UVAN
PTYLTD
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
' OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Prospects for the 1960-
61 Uruguayan wool
clip, despite the 1960
Autumn and Winter
unfavourable condi-
tions, is expected to
surpass last year’s clip.
Approximately 165 mil-
lion lb. of the new
wool clip will be avail-
able, and the soundness,
colour and yield are
expected to be satis-
factory. However, the
staple length of the
clips may be affected
by the unfavourable
conditions.
When you use Elastra-
tor for all castrating
and tailing you can rely
on its claim to provide
the safest, surest, most
humane method. Lambs
are not subjected to the
agonies of the “knife,”
and because there are
no open wounds lamb's
are less likely to become
infected from disease.
out relation to the growth of
the population of the whole
State—over the past 50 years
or so.
In 1901 the mining-town of
Croydon, connected with the
port of Normanton almost
from its inception, had 2000
inhabitants in the town itself
and 4000 in the district. To-
day the whole shire of 11,000
square-miles carries 170 people
—with the numbers in decline.
Carpentaria, almost exactly
the same size as Tasmania,
had 570 inhabitants in 1958-
59. Its population has gone
down since 1947. There are
only 450 people on the whole
16,000-square-mile Queensland
section of the much-vaunted
Barkly Tableland.
'T'he whole lonely two-thirds
A of the State as a piece in-
creased its population by only
14.500 in the 11 years after
1947.
The whole of the great
south-western district showed
an improvement of only 4000,
mainly accounted for by the
growth of Charleville, a key
air-service connection, by 1500
and by closer settlement in the
areas nearest the coast.
In the far west the growth
was only 549 in 11 years. The
36.500 miles of Diamantina
shire mustered only six more
inhabitants in the period ; it
has one inhabitant to every
150 square-miles.
Even the rich sheep centre
of Winton is so sparsely popu-
lated —it is a key railway
junction in the heart of the
wool country —that its shire
embraces 20,000 miles with
only one person in eight
square-miles, and its people
added just 71 to their num-
bers between 1947 and 1958.
Outside Thursday Island
and a little area on the east
coast around and south of
Cooktown, the population of
Cape York Peninsula actually
declined in the 11 years, and
that of the whole peninsula was
300 less in 195§ than in 1954.
The north-west district, with
an increase of 6700 since 1947,
had its accessions concen-
trated entirely round the Mt
Isa-Mary Kathleen mining-
towns. This growth accounted
for half the increase in the
whole of the forgotten two-
thirds of the State —the back
country. In three out of nine
shires in the district, 58,000
square-miles now carrying
4670 persons, or one to 12.4
square-miles, there was a re-
cession in numbers.
The rest, save for Cloncurry,
a mining-area, show static
figures. And the vital statistics
intensify the picture of back-
wardness.
QUEENSLAND POPULATION
Big coastal cities and ad-
vanced communities are apt
usually to have a preponder-
ance of women. All the big
coastal cities of Queensland are
in this position.
But in the pioneering areas,
whether it be in stagnating
cities near the coast or in the
outback, the position is re-
versed. For example, Quilpie,
in south-western Queensland —
an area settled 80 years ago
but still in the pioneering
stage—there are nearly two
males to every female ; in the
28,000 square-miles of Bulloo
shire the 1954 census recorded
483 males and 189 females.
Even in the quickly develop-
ing mining-shire of Cloncurry,
with Mt. Isa as its heart, the
proportion of males to females
was three to two.
A gain, as in most pioneering
everywhere, the popu-
lation is characterised by a high
birthrate and a high death-
rate. The birthrates of the
north-west, central west and
south-west vied for supremacy
with that other great pioneer-
ing centre, the Australian Capi-
tal Territory, for the guerdon
as having the highest birthrates
in the Commonwealth—4o.2,
31.3 and 32.8 in 1958. But the
rate of infant-mortality (deaths
under a year per 1000 of live
births) were in two of these dis-
tricts, the north-west and the
south-west, also the highest in
the Commonwealth—3o and
41. The more closely settled
central west, with a figure of
19, illustrated what can be
done with more intensive medi-
cal facilities.
is the matter with all
this country?
Before World War I it was
a focus of Governmental
enthusiasm. Maps of the day
show forecasts of a linkage
of all the great railway sys-
tems from the coast by a new
line running down from the
Barkly Tableland through the
West —a line with connections
to the established systems
which actually was authorised
by legislation passed through
the Queensland Parliament in
1910 as part of a Common-
wealth-State scheme.
This country has, or receives
from elsewhere, floods of water
in the rainy seasons, but it
evaporates or runs away to
waste either in the central Aus-
tralian lakes or through seep-
age into the great artesian and
sub-artesian basins under-
neath.
It is fertile over a very great
portion of its area and, subject
to frequent droughts, carries
huge quantities of both sheep
and cattle without pasture-
improvement, without agricul-
ture of any kind, and with only
limited enclosure.
It is criss-crossed with
channels and runs of water
which, through riparian tim-
bering and a clean-out, might
be formed into permanent
creeks and rivers with trees


Divorce Notice
TO RICHARD ERIC DEHRING forra-
erly of Norseman W.A. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife ANNIE MAY DEHRING
has commenced proceedings against you
in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia for Divorce on the ground of five
Tears’ separation If you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your de-
fence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia at
Perth within forty piear days from the
date of this publication. In default of
your so doing the case m,ay proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your absence.
DATED the 25th day of November,
1960.—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
GEOFFREY G. HAMMOND, of 98
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitor
for the Plaintiff.
Failfi in flt c
Fufoire
v
We stand at the entrance to another year.
It is a season for estimating ourselves; a time
for resolution.
What does the past year show in retrospect?
It has been a good year for Australia as a whole.
Indeed, the point at domestic issue as 1960 closes
is whether the economy is becoming temporarily
over-buoyant.
On the world scene, except for a few local
patches, the hopes of mankind for averting
senseless conflict have been preserved.
It isn’t a perfect picture; few pictures are. The
ideal in human affairs seems always to be just so
much farther along the way.
But let none of 11s doubt that Australia is at
the edge of still more remarkable expansion than
ever in the past. And- in our reaching to areas of
achievement still unentered, time is one of the most
precious factors.
You see, there is nothing so uniformly just in
life as the dealing out of time. A year, a month, a
minute', they are all given equally for each of us
to use.
So a new year is more than a calendar event;
it is an opportunity for doing the things we have
hitherto fallen short of doing; for undertaking
tasks we have not ventured upon before.
This being true of a personal life, how much
truer is it of Australians as a corporate race. Here
is a country waiting to be taken up to its fulfilment.
Time, the urgent element, goes on—and the
standards of performance required of us in building
this nation are being raised with every year of
its passing.
May 1961 be good to all of us; in our work, in
our homes, and in everything we do.
And at its end may we be able to say, sincerely
and truthfully, that our country is stronger and
better and richer and securer for the extra service
we will have given it—through every day of this
year that is coming to us from out of the gift
of time.
///A
fcotjz $
y
planted along their banks pro-
viding shelter for stock and
giving protection against
evaporation.
■ In much of it seasonal roads
for light traffic can be cut with
a fireplough the Barkly
Tableland, across the border
in the Northern Territory, used
to have a 250-mile stretch
nearly 40 years ago which was
the best motoring-road in Aus-
tralia save for the paved
stretch between Melbourne
and Geelong.
Civilisation and comfort, of
course, follow only on the
growth of economic wealth.
Many western and northern
stations, and some towns, en-
joy as high a standard in
actual living-conditions as
closely populated areas along
the coast —where, from Tweed
Heads for 200 miles north,
luxury tourist towns and bulg-
ing cities are strung along the
necklace of coastal surf. But,
generally speaking, conditions
and amenities educational,
medical, the things that make
for health, comfort and
security of living—are lacking
in the far west and the far
north.
TTaving regard to the latent
wealth, and the materials
for making wealth which have
been little developed, one
would be inclined to say that
the ingredient of growth and
stability most lacking in this
country is imagination among
those responsible for develop-
mental programmes.
This becomes increasingly
evident with great advances in
technology and in the applica-
tion of large-scale power to the
movement of industry and
population.
The stricture does not apply
universally. Within the ambit
of its own franchise as to the
valuation of land and the fixing
of rents and encouragement of
individuals to conserve water,
the Lands Department has
done a great deal. It has been
spearheaded over a generation
by Sir William Payne, just now
retiring from the presidency of
the Land Court. Payne has
again and again produced ideas
which have either conserved or
increased both development
and population.
But among the politicians
and others charged with
responsibility for the future of
this huge, scarcely populated
kingdom, there seem to be no
minds of Snowy Mountain ton-
nage.
The backward two-thirds of
Queensland, if it is not alto-
gether a forgotten kingdom—
many of its more forward-
looking inhabitants can be
highly vocal about their needs
—is a place which a lot of
people with the burden of gov-
ernment on their shoulders
would like to forget.
Crosscuts
Part of each prize awarded
by the Murtoa (Vic.) Agricul-
tural and Pastoral Society in
its recent irrigation and pasture
competition was, appropriately,
a supply of water to each
winner’s property.
Four Southdown studs
around Berrima (N.S.W.) will
hold a Southdown fair at Moss
Vale on Friday, January 20,
where a total of 180 rams and
70 ewes will be auctioned, in-
cluding stud rams and flock
rams and ewes of all ages. The
breeders —Messrs. E. Telford
Simpson, of Newbury Stud,
Sutton Forest; Conlon Brothers,
of The Downs, Exeter ; Bruce
Burge, of Baroona Park, Bow-
ral; and lan MacPherson, of
Browley, Moss Vale—hope to
make this fair an annual event.
Form Hints
To rid a pig of body-lice,
rub a handful of dripping along
its spine, starting at the tail
and working against the hair
right up to the top of the head.
The same process applied to
dogs will get rid of fleas. The
idea is that the parasites gorge
on the fat, with fatal results. —
“Efemay.”
Hens cannot deal with large
quantities of greenfeed like a
horse or cow ; they need meat-
meal and grain to maintain
egg-production. One ounce of
chaffed greenfeed daily is
ample for each hen. —“Jayem.”
Give a calf lib. of whole-
milk a day for each 101 b. of
its body-weight during the first
two weeks. When calves have
to be kept under shelter, pro-
vide each with a pen and keep
it sanitary, avoiding wet bed-
ding, dampness and draughts
at all times. —“Mullengah.”


OVERSEAS
Treating the Sick Dollar
'T'he U.S. balance-of-pay-
ments problem is one of
the biggest headaches the
Kennedy Administration is
inheriting from its predeces-
sors, and publicists in both
Europe and America are inter-
ested in how it will be tackled.
British economist Sir Roy
Harrod, writing in London
“Financial Times,” says that
it is in Britain’s interest and
of the greatest importance to
the free world that U.S.
solvency should not only be
re-established on a firm foun-
dation but should be seen to
be re - established. Other
Western countries should co-
operate :
“There should be a further
concerted reduction of bank-
rates in Europe. While the
original distribution of burdens
by Nato may have been equit-
able in relation to the produc-
tivity and incomes per head
in the countries concerned, it
ought to be possible to secure
a substantial readjustment
without affecting this distri-
bution, namely, by getting the
Americans to send more direct
supplies, while cutting down
on those items that burden her
balance of payments.
“Direct supplies have no
effect on the American balance
of payments, and an increase
of these would actually bene-
fit their economy, by raising
employment and activity there,
while easing strains on pro-
ductive capacity in Europe.
While the British may have
gone a little too fast and too
far in dismantling restrictions
on imports, there should cer-
tainly be no restrictions which
discriminate, directly or in-
directly, against American
exports.
“If we look to measures that
might reanimate the economies
of the free world, all are
trivial, in my judgment, com-
pared with the beneficent effect
of a rise in the dollar price of
gold. There is indeed an
absolute need for this. In
recent years the whole free
world has been greatly handi-
capped by the fact that there
just are not enough reserves
to go round. The result of the
shortage has been that small
aberrations in balances of pay-
ments, such as would not have
provoked any attention in the
—New York “Herald Tribune."
THE BATTLE OF NEW ORLEANS
old days, have caused coun-
tries, one after another, to
adopt deflationary or restric-
tive policies.
“This has been a continuing
drag on the expansiveness of
the free economies. If one
country becomes temporarily
happy about its reserve posi-
tion the other countries run
short. Continental Europe,
but not Britain, is better placed
at the moment, simply because
the Americans have run a large
deficit for some years. When
the Americans had enough,
the rest of the world was
gravely short.
“It has to be stressed that
reserves are needed, precisely
because periodic balance-of-
payments deficits are practi-
cally inevitable. If a nation
has a surplus, however small,
on its overall balance of pay-
ments, some other nation has
to have a deficit. The only
exception to the rule is that
the gold-producing countries
can have deficits covered by
newly mined gold, and the
other countries can have sur-
pluses to that amount (now
exceedingly small), but no
more.
“The dollar value of world
trade has been increased about
five times since 1938. The
dollar value of monetary gold
stocks has increased about 50
per cent. only.
“It is true that if we include
foreign-exchange reserves in
the reckoning there has been
an increase of about two-and-
a-half times since before the
war —still far short of the
increase in the dollar value of
trade.
“Externally held dollar-
balances are almost as great as
the gold in Fort Knox and
nearly three times as great as
the ‘free’ gold there (that is,
that not earmarked against
internal note and deposit lia-
bilities). Deprived in future
of these adventitious supple-
mentations, the ffee world will
be in an intolerable strait-
jacket unless the dollar price
of gold is raised more or less
in proportion to the decline in
the commodity value of the
dollar.
“If this change is not made
we are sure to have a succes-
sion of crises, and are even-
tually likely to drift right away
from the system of multilateral
trade, re-established with so
much effort since the war. In
such conditions the Inter-
national Monetary Fund could
be of little service. Further-
more, the expansion of pro-
duction will be held down,
putting the free world to
shame in the eyes of the un-
committed nations.
“The right line of policy in
these circumstances, I suggest,
is to think of all feasible means
of helping the Americans in
their balance - of - payments
problem, and to work out a
veritable package-deal. But at
the same time we should abso-
solutely refuse to put, into effect
any single item in that pro-
posed deal unless we have
prior agreement from the
Americans that they will raise
the dollar price of gold.
, “There is no doubt that the
change in the dollar price of
gold will come some day. It
is quite inevitable. But it
would save a vast amount of
frustration and a succession of
crises if it could be made to
dome quickly.”
Walter Lippmann, in New
York “Herald* Tribune,” says
that the best way for Ameri-
cans to picture the situation is
to realise that foreigners hold
19,000-million of short-term
dollar-balances which they can
cash at any time for gold or
foreign currency, and that this
limits U.S. freedom of action
to finance its foreign policy
and deal with its international
problems of recession and
accelerated economic growth:
“To keep our foreign credi-
tors from cashing their
balances and drawing out gold
we have to keep our interest-
rates higher than may be wise
in view of the recession. More-
over, the short-term debt will
continue to hang over us and
threaten us even though we
succeed in expanding our
exports of goods and services,
as we must try to do, to a level
where we have a surplus to
cover our foreign commit-
ments.
“Therefore, the Kennedy


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A363,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
GOOD MEDICINE
FOR
DISSATISFIED
INVESTORS
•
Learn what we, in our
professional judgment,
would suggest to meet
your personal investment
needs.
JUST SEND THE COUPON
BELOW.
For free information or enclose
£5/5/- for 12 months’ letter
advisory service.
INVESTMENT ADVISORY
BUREAU,
Suite 19, 377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
NAME
address ....
Phone
Administration will have to
attack the situation on two
fronts —one domestic and the
other international.
“On the domestic front its
objective is bound to be to
make our economy more effec-
tively competitive as against
Western Europe and Japan.
It will also require a concerted
effort to stop the so-called
cost-push inflation brought on
by big business and big labor.
This will probably mean
establishing a policy by which
for a term of years wages in
the key industries, like steel
and automobiles, do not rise
faster than the general national
average of productivity. On
the side of business this will
be coupled with the policy of
reducing prices.
“On the other front it will
be necessary to take the leader-
ship in working out new mone-
tary arrangements which will,
so to speak, convert some ade-
quate share of our 19-billion
short-term debt into an inter-
national reserve deposit. The
idea would be to establish for
world monetary transactions an
arrangement similar to our
Federal Reserve System.
“One way to do this, as
Prof. Triffin has proposed,
would be to authorise the
International Monetary Fund
to accept reserve deposits from
its member central banks and
to give these deposits a guaran-
tee that they could be cashed in
gold or its equivalent. Prof.
Triffin believes that it would
be possible to transfer from
their present owners to the
Monetary Fund about half of
our short-term debt abroad.
“The proposal has already
been approved unanimously
in England by the Radcliffe
Committee on the Working of
the Monetary System.”
Policy of Plunder
/Commenting on the comped-
tion between the Western
nations and the Communist
bloc for “the soul of the under-
developed world” the “New
York Times” remarks ruefully
that some of the countries need-
ing aid have embarked on a
“policy of plunder”—the arbi-
trary seizure of foreign proper-
ties and investments —at the
same time as they are crying
out for new development
capital: “A policy of plunder
is, of course, the basis of Com-
munist ideology, applied when-
ever Communists come to
power. Now it is being imitated
by others, such as Cuba, or
Left-leaning Indonesia for
ostensibly nationalistic pur-
poses, or, in a particularly
flagrant manner, by President
Nasser, who seized the inter-
national guaranteed Suez Canal
and has now seized Belgian
properties in retaliation for the
expulsion of his envoys from
the Congo.
“Certainly private capital to
aid the underdeveloped nations
will not be forthcoming if it
is exposed to increasing confis-
cation by politically ambitious
men for their own purposes.
The other side of the coin is,
of course, that foreign private
capital must not attempt to
over-foreignise or dominate a
country’s economy but must
work in co-operation with local
capital and labor toward
mutual benefits without ex-
ploitation.
“Where these principles have
been disregarded, the capital
has been lost, and the rising un-
easiness over the American
capital invasion in such coun-
tries as Canada and Britain
raises danger signals which
cannot be disregarded. Ameri-
can finance helped to sow the
wind through indiscriminate
foreign loans in the ’twenties
and reaped the whirlwind of
the great depression. American
industry should not repeat that
mistake through indiscriminate
foreign investments.”
A Dividend
from Space
T ondon “Daily Telegraph” on
' a space project which
promises to be a payable pro-
position :
“The sponsors of a suggested
scheme to establish a British-
made satellite communications
network claim not only that it
would be a commercial success,
given existing rocket develop-
ments. They also believe that it
would produce enough revenue
to pay back the money already
spent on Blue Streak —the main
launching vehicle for the satel-
lites. The idea is to have 24
ground stations throughout the
Commonwealth and a network
of eight satellites to relay tele-
phone conversation, converted
into radio signals, between
them. The system could also
presumably be developed to
cover all countries.
“In its third year of opera-
tion, making generous allow-
ances for satellite replacement,
launching-vehicle development
and maintenance, it would
break even. It would be idle
to pretend that we can rely
fully on the costing figures for
a project as ambitious as this.
But with large sums already in-
vested in Blue Streak, with no
prospect of a return elsewhere,
it certainly has attractions. To
make a Terrestial comparison
the scheme is at least as worth
serious study as that for a
Channel tunnel.
“Beyond its commercial pos-
sibilities there are the con-
siderable scientific and techno-
logical gains which, although
indeterminate economically, are
vitally important to us. Elec-
tronics, metallurgy and physics
would all benefit; so, too,
would the science of meteoro-
logy. We can ill-afford, from
the industrial point of view, to'
be left behind in any of these
fields. With all these advan-
tages included in an enterprise
which may anyway be profit-
able, the case for further en-
couragement for the idea seems
unanswerable.
“Even if Blue Streak were
not involved, and American
launching - vehicles were used
instead, it would still deserve
support. The Soviet habit of
filling inner space with travel-
ling zoos may have its long-
term benefits. But in the mean-
time the development of this
kind of communications system
would seem an excellent way
of using our own talents and
resources.”
Various Voices
General Lyman L. Lemnit-
zer, chairman, U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff: “Our enemy must
know at all times that we main-
tain a certain ability to destroy
him no matter how, or with
what attempt to achieve sur-
prise, he might seek to attack
us. We have that capability
now .... The long line of
Fleet ballistic, missiles sub-
marines .... give unmistake-
able evidence to the world that
we intend to maintain and
enhance that capability in the
future.”
* * *
Lord Home, Britain’s Foreign
Secretary: “Defence in the
modern world is expensive.
Unless we make the effort to
earn a larger income—and that
means in plain language work
as hard as our industrial rivals
—we cannot have a defence or
foreign policy which will give
this country security. The pur-
pose of our military alliances
is to present the Communists
with a concentration of power
which is so convincing that they
will never dare to start a war.”
* * *
General Nors t a d, Nato
Supreme Commander: “For the
alliance to have continuing life
and meaning, it needs increas-
ing authority, it needs power
in some form. If politically
feasible, action to pass to the
alliance greater control over
atomic weapons and to subject
their use more directly to the
collective will could be a great
and dramatic new step.”


ABORIGINALITIES
Contracting Out
V/jTY wife warned: “If you
start that contracting caper
again this year I'm leaving
you.”
She won: Woolaway Shear-
ing Service is now deceased.
At the height of the shear-
mg-season last year the wife
shot-through to Sydney so often
at weekends that 1 thought she
had taken a lover. She con-
fessed later she just couldn't
take the weekends of turmoil,
confusion and untidiness:
shearing-stores all over the
sitting - room ; emery - paper
stacked in the lavatory ; combs
and cutters in the bed; the
endless arrivals of taxis at all
odd hours with shearers look-
ing for pens or snatching it
and wanting t(ieir cheques ; and
a husband perpetually half-
fuddled from spending long
days and nights in pubs look-
ing for shearers.
But the anguish of suspected
cuckoldom was nothing to the
other anguish I was going
through: that of major shear-
ing trouble.
There are bad men in every
game, but I struck them all in
one heap.
I’ve lots of mates among the
bogghi boys; hard-working
decent blokes in the scrub for
a quick quid. You don’t want
the terrifying and expensive
experience, as in a pub in Coon-
amble last year near closing-
time, when two enormous
shearers, belligerent with beer,
stood over you:
“You're the bastard, aren’t
you , who slings off at us
greasies in The Bully?”
“Not at all mate” tsho.itine
f , ( h ? t , " g
" v * T “ a ro , W f' a u°
* r '“ le * b ‘>: , Do 1 , for dou B h '
That s aU - Dmkum.
You are starting Brindabella
P ea k • 9000 big wethers (the
shearers anathema) for six
shearers. It s the height of the
shearing-season, and shearers
are as scarce as virgins in a
bordello.
You’ve lured these six to the
tough joint with the promise
of a late shed to follow' with
2500 ewes and lambs each—
a good cop. On Sunday morn-
ing you phone the station-
manager and ask him what he
is starting on.
“On 2000 rather big wethers,
They’re a bit big, but they’ll be
good shearing.”
Your heart sinks. When a
station-manager admits to
“rather big” wethers you know
then they’re whoppers,
“Couldn’t we kick-off on
those 1800 weaners? Shearers
may be a bit temperamental on
the Monday morning . . .See-
“I thought I’d experiment with air-conditioning.”
ing those bully boys [wethers]
staring at them.”
“Sorry, Bill,” he says.
“Couldn't get ’em in in time.
They're in a back paddock.”
There are two conflicting
philosophies about big, rough
sheep: start on them first,
hoping the boys will get stuck
into them so that they get
quickly to the small, good
sheep ; or bring the good shear-
ing-sheep in first and get some
money on the books so that
when the elephantine and recal-
citrant wethers come in the
men won't pull out and leave
their dough on the books.
The cynics maintain it’s no
use, they'll beat you whatever
you do. They can always get
a telegram: Come home at
once wife dying. You com-
miserate, pay the bloke up, run
him into town. If you check
with the town sergeant you may
find he has been a widower for
15 years.
Monday morning you sign
the shearers on, all legal
like. They elect a rep. There
are no apparent hangovers on
the board, but you are appre-
hensive just the same. Those
wethers look gargantuan.
The shearers pull into gear
and shear about 10 sheep, and
you are breathing a bit easier.
Then a young Queensland
back-country lair, a bit of a
gun, starts wandering around
the board, bending over, talk-
ing to the other shearers. It’s
on.
There are cries in a man's
life that he will never forget.
To the gambler at the two-up
joint, after winning a lot of
money: “Close the door,
Ocker, no one's to leave the
game for 10 minutes.” To the
soldier, after years in the
Middle East, after seven days’
leave and seven days’ honey-
moon, hearing his regimental
number being called to get on
the troop-train to go north.
To the boss of the board, in a
troubled shed, the cry that will
always haunt him will be:
“All shearers down this end
of the board. Swarm’s on.”
You know then there is more
trouble ahead than the Summit
meeting. The rep. comes to
you and says: “Four of us are
pulling out. You told us in
town they weren’t big wethers.
Anyway the gear’s no good-
no pace.”
They wrap tl\eir tools up and
go to the huts.
As they are shaving up and
rolling their swags you offer
a quid a hundred over the
award to shear on. They won’t
be in it, and start throwing
their swags in the utilities.
“What about those ewes and
lambs to follow?” you implore.
The Queensland lair is sus-
picious of contractors’ blan-
dishments. He's been caught
before:
“We’ve only your word that
they're lambs.”
As they start their motors, a
last attempt: “I'll prosecute
you for breaking your agree-
ments.”
As they pull away they laugh
and sing out: “You know what
you can do with those agree-
ments. Good luck, mate.”
Vou certainly need that luck.
A Two shearers remain:
one flat broke, got caught in a
hazards game; the other the
husband of the woman cook.
Why should he pull out with
the wife well on the payroll to
the tune of nearly 40 nicker a
week?
You spend the next 48 hours
in pubs looking for men with
heavily puffed knuckles —the
shearer’s undisguisable trade-
mark.
There are quite a good few
back-country boys down inside,
but they are all looking for that
shearer’s idyll: a cocky shed,
£lO a hundred, tucker and tax
thrown in and a bottle on the
table at night. But the two-
stander cocky, now hard hit
by falling wool-prices, can’t
pay above the award any more.
You offer a few shearers pens
at Brindabella Peak “with
2500 ewes and lambs to follow
at another shed just over the
hill.”
“How big are the wethers?”
they ask. “That big?” (point-
ing to the bar-counter).
“No,” you reply, bending
very low. “Only that big.”
“No, thanks. I can shear all
the rough sheep l like round
home.”
Finally you engage three
men. You can smell Cunna-
mulla men in all of them. But
what can you do with an irate
owner on your back?
A Cunnamulla man is a
loose term for a tough, deter-
mined “blue”-making shearer
with a strong inherited legacy
of antagonism to squatters.
Two of them bite you for a
score; “Just want to get a
few things before we go out.
It’s as safe as in the bank,
mate.”
The things are mostly in
cartons of twelve.


You take the odds but break
the bite down to a brick.
You’ve got to. There’s a con-
tractor the other end of the
bar, looking for shearers. You
want one more for a full
board.
Finally you meet a “married
couple.” That is, two shearer-
mates travelling together and
looking for pens together.
These two don’t want to sepa-
rate, and the art of separating
a married couple is pretty con-
siderable.
“Ah!” you think. “This is
the real thing. True old Law-
sonian mateship.”
After many drinks, you hit-
ting the kick mostly, they toss
to decide who’ll go with you.
That’s if you can get the loser
a pen.
Later you find out that, as
with many marriages, the
fa9ade of great fellowship was
only a show. The smaller of
the two owed the big bloke 80
quid.
In all, 32 shearers come and
go at Brindabella Peak. You
use-up seven chequebooks. It
cost the squatter over five bob
a sheep to shear. You cut out
so late you’ve missed the good
follow-on shed, and the original
two shearers, still with* you
and full of cut-out grog, are
going to knock your block off.
The wife was right. Guessing
is much more peaceful.
Bill Howard.
• * * ¥
Our Pre-history
'T'he expert excavation of
aboriginal camp-sites lacks
the romance of similar work
on ruins and grave-sites in
other parts of the world.
There is no chance of finding
a hoard of treasure, as in the
tomb of ‘ Tut-ankh-amen, or
relics of long-vanished civilisa-
tions such as those of the
Hittites or Minoans. But the
work done here has been
valuable in the scientific sense.
The first archaeological ex-
cavation in Australia was done
by the South Australian
Museum in 1929, following a
lead given by W. P. Roy, who
had found an aboriginal skele-
ton embedded in sandstone on
Tartanga, an island in the
lower part of the Murray
River near his station home-
stead.
Herbert M. Hale, director
of the museum, and anthro-
pologist Norman Tindale
removed three skeletons from
the rock matrix, as well as
stone and bone implements
and the remains of shellfish,
birds and animals which the
long-dead people had used for
food.
The museum party then
examined a cave in the cliffs
at Devon Downs, three miles
downstream from Tartanga,
which aborigines had used as
a wet-weather shelter for so
long a time that a deposit of
ashes, bones, shells and other
occupation debris had accumu-
lated to a depth of more than
20ft. Dust had blown in dur-
ing periods when the cave was
unoccupied, separating the
occupation-layers with bands
of sand.
layer was taken up
and sifted, everything re-
covered being kept separate.
The bottom layer in such a
deposit must of course be the
oldest, and in this excavation
it provided a time-scale by
which the sequence of styles
of stone implements found
elsewhere could be fixed.
Since the last war radio-carbon
dating of food-refuse from
aboriginal camp-sites has made
it possible to give their age
in years.
In 1939 at Lake Menindee
(N.S.W.) Tindale and Dr J. B.
Birdsell, of the University of
California (U.S.A.), found a
very old open-air camp-site
where stone implements simi-
lar to those from Tartanga
were mixed with the bones of
diprotodons, genyornis birds
and other now extinct giant
creatures which the natives
had used as food.
Since then another cave on
the Murray has been ex-
cavated by John Mulvaney, of
the University of Melbourne ;
caves in N.S.W. have been
excavated by F. D.' McCarthy,
of the Australian Museum;
and similar work has been
done on the mound of debris
on open-air sites in S.A. by
Dr T. D. Campbell, H. V.
Noon and Harold Cooper.
Archeology has now re-
vealed this picture of the
human occupation of Aus-
tralia :
The first people to come
here from South-east Asia were
the very primitive and small
Negritos, using crude stone
implements. They spread over
most of the continent. None
of their skeletons have been
found —probably because, like
Negritos living elsewhere, they
burned their dead —but some
of their descendants were still
living in Tasmania when white
settlement began and other
descendants are still living to-
day on the Athertpn Tableland
in North Queensland. They
have been named the Kartans,
and the oldest date yet fixed
for them is 8700 years ago on
“I can see by your work that you're trying
to say something."
one of their camp-sites at Cape
Martin (S.A.).
After the Negritos came the
Tartangans, whose skeletons
show that they had marked
Negrito characteristics but
were slightly larger and in a
higher state of culture. They
camped at Lake Menihdee
6700 years ago.
The people who first occu-
pied the Devon Downs cave
4250 years ago were of the
same racial type as the present-"
day aborigines. Their culture
has been named the Pirrian
from the neatly chipped little
stone spearpoints, or “pirri,”
which they made.
They were followed 3500
years ago by the Mudukians,
who also made neat stone
implements and used the Tas-
manian devil, not yet extinct
on the mainland, as food.
About 2000 years ago the
Murundian culture appeared,
with crudely chipped stone
implements and a stone axe
whose edge had been sharp-
ened by grinding. This'
culture still existed when
European settlement began.
It is easy to identify a cave
which has been used as an
aboriginal shelter. The roof
is encrusted with old soot, and
on the floor there is a deposit
of ashes, bones and similar
refuse. Open-air sites are
found where there is some
permanent and abundant
food-supply; these consist of
a mound of cockle-shells,
mussel-shells, fish-bones and
some animal bones mixed with
ashes and charcoal.
Amateurs can give great aid
to Australian archaeology by
finding such sites.' But no
amateur should ever excavate
one. Haphazard digging ruins
the scientific value of the find.
The location of the find,
together with a photograph of
it, should be reported to a
museum or university and the
task' left to experts.
H. A. Lindsay.
♦
pROM the window of this ward
A I look out over a stretch
of lawn tended by a tired
gardener and a pair of spur-
wing plovers. The plovers
work the longer hours. From
dawn to dusk they peer, poke
and tug, tirelessly. The hen
limps, but that doesn’t affect
her efficiency ; and the pair are
sometimes assisted by a one-
legged starling.
I was wondering if this
hospital kept rebuilt pets, like
a vet. I once knew, when the
trainee nurse walked in and we
watched and discussed the birds
together. “We set a few rabbit-
traps down by the swamp to
see if we could get a duck or
two,” she drawled.
I looked at this gentle
Nightingale at whose mercy I
now lay, and recognised the
bush girl who had spent Satur-
days with her brothers along
the creek and to whom crack-
ing a rabbit’s neck was no
more trouble than picking up
a shiny pebble. I want to go
home.
Billy T.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £173,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
Kindersley House, Bligh/O’Connell Streets, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton, Manager for Australia.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO JOHN ROBERT CHALMERS late of
56 Bruce Street Brighton-le-Sands.—
TAKE NOTICE that PATRICIA
MARION CHALMERS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3807 of 1960 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 25th day
of February 1961 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. F. C. BRYANT & CO., Soli-
citors, of 5 Bligh Street, Sydney. —
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO LANCE MAXWELL ELLIS.—TAKE
NOTICE that GWENDOLEN MARGERY
ELLIS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2628 of 1960 on the grounds of
your desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance -in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by 26th of Febru-
ary 1961 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion withoufr charge from L. B.
FEENEY & CO., Solicitors, 16 Barrack
Street Sydney, New South Wales.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of “John Logie Baird,” by
Sydney Moseley.—3B.
Copy of “Dot and the-Kangaroo.”
—39.
Copy, in English trartslation, "of
Stendahl’s “La Chartreuse de
Parme.” —40.
Information Sought
What is the story of Hermaphro-
ditus ? Can humans be her-
maphrodites ? What other forms
of life can be hermaphrodites ?
Hermaphroditus was, in Greek
mythology, the son of Hermes and
Aphrodite. The nymph Salmacis
fell in love with him and prayed
that she might be so closely united
with him that “the twain might
become one flesh.” Her prayer
being heard, the nymph and the
boy became one body. (Ovid:
Metamorphoses).
Though hermaphroditism in
human beings to the extent of the
combination in one person of cer-
tain characteristics of both sexes
is not unknown, a true hermaphro-
dite is very 'rare indeed, and the
so-called examples are almost
invariably merely cases of the mal-
formation of the reproductive
organs^
Many lower forms of life are
true hermaphrodites; for example,
the sluggish leech and snail, the
fixed oyster or the parasitic tape-
worm. Many flowering plants are
hermaphroditic, though of varying
degrees of intimacy; in the case
of the arum the male organs are
situated above and distinct from
the female organs, but in the
case of the orchid the stamens and
carpels are united: this is paralleled
in the case of the leech, where the
two elements are distinct and
separate, though not so in the
snail. Self-fertilisation is largely
prevented by the two elements
developing at different times in the
organism. The earlier maturing of
the male element is the more
common experience, the hag-fish
yielding an example from the animal
kingdom.
* * * *
Brief biography of George
Rignold ?
~~ Rignold was born at Leicester,
England, in 1839, of actor parents.
He began to learn the violin, but
a small part in Macbeth gained
enough notice to decide his career
for him. He joined the Bath and
Bristol circuit, gained much experi-
ence there, and then went to
London, where he played William
in Black-eyed Susan, Caliban in
The Tempest, and Romeo to the
Juliet of Adelaide Neilson when
she made her debut.
In 1875 he opened at Booth's
Theatre, New York, in Henry V,
an immediate success which was
followed by a tour of other Ameri-
can cities. From America Rignold
came to Australia, was again very
successful and received backing from
an Australian syndicate for a season
at London’s Drury Lane.
He appeared at Drury Lane in
Henry V, which season was fol-
lowed by further tours in the
United States, after which he came
back to Australia and settled here.
Her Majesty’s Theatre in Sydney
was built for him in 1886 and,
opening with Henry V, he made
this his headquarters for nine
yeafs. He was best as a Shak-
spearean actor, but also played the
hero in several popular melodramas.
His last production was Othello
at the Criterion Theatre, Sydney,
in 1899, after which he retired.
In 1902, on hearing that his brother
William had gone blind, he went to
London and took part in his
brother’s benefit. In 1907 he came
from his retirement to successfully
play Jason in Bland Holt’s produc-
tion of The Bondman. His last
appearance was at a benefit per-
formance for fellow-actor G. S.
Titheradge in December, 19-10. He
died in Sydney after an operation
on December 16, 1912.
* * * *
An outline of the Soviet judiciary
system ?
The basis (textbook authority)
of the judiciary system in
the U.S.S.R. is the same
throughout the Union, but the
constituent republics have the right
to introduce modifications and to
make their own rules for the appli-
cation of the code of law. The
Supreme Court of the U.S.S.R. is
the chief court and supervisor , for
all constituent republics and is
elected by the Supreme Soviet of
the U.S.S.R. for five years. Supreme
Courts of republics are elected by
the Supreme Soviets of those
republics and Territorial, Regional
and Area Courts by the respective
Soviets, each for a term of five years.
In all courts cases are heard in
public, unless otherwise provided
for by law, and the accused is
guaranteed the right of defence.
Laws establishing common prin-
ciples of criminal legislation,
criminal responsibility for State and
military crimes, judicial and criminal
procedure and military tribunals
were adopted by the Supreme Soviet
on Dec. 25, 1958, for the courts
both of the U.S.S.R. and the con-
stituent republics. f
The Law Courts of the U.S.S.R.
are divided into People’s Courts
and higher courts. The People’s
Courts consist of the People’s
Judge and two Assessors, their
function being to examine as the
first instance most of the civil and
criminal cases, except the more
important ones, some of which are
tried at the Regional Court and
most important at the Supreme
Court. The Regional Courts super-
vise the activities of the People's
Courts and also act as courts of
appeal from them. Special cham-
bers of the higher courts deal with
offences committed in the Army
and the public transport services.
People’s Judges and Assessors
are elected directly by the citizens
of each constituency, judges for
five years, assessors for two. A
judge not performing his duty
conscientiously may be recalled by
his electors. The assessors work
on a rota system, being called-on
to serve for two weeks in a year.
The Labor Session of the
People’s Court supervises the regu-
lations for working conditions and
the protection of labor and settles
disputes between managements and
employees and those arising from
violation of regulations. Disputes
between State institutions may be
referred compulsorily to an arbitra-
tion commission. Disputes between
Soviet State institutions and foreign
business firms may be referred by
agreement to a Foreign Trade
Arbitration Commission of the
All-Union Chamber of Commerce.
The Procurator-General of the
U.S.S.R. is appointed for seven
years by the Supreme Soviet. , He
appoints all procurators of the
republics, autonomous republics and
autonomous regions for a five-year
term. The procurators are
supposed to supervise the
correct application of the law by
all State organs, and have special
responsibility for the observance
of the law in places of detention.
The Procurator-General’s duty is
to see that acts of all institutions
of the U.S.S.R. are legal, that the
law is properly interpreted and
uniformly applied and, in important
cases, to act as State Prosecutor.
Brief Answers
W.L.: The first Rotary Club was
founded in 1905 by Paul Harris, a
Chicago lawyer, with a coal-dealer,
a mining-engineer and a tailor.
They met in each other’s homes in
turn, hence the name Rotary Club.
Membership increased rapidly, new
clubs were formed in various
States, and by 1911 Rotary had
spread to Canada and Ireland.
Rotary came to Australia in 1921.
... .R.D.P.: The Agricultural
Rioters were a large number of
men transported to Australia in
1830 and 1831 following a series
of disturbances in England’s agri-
cultural counties, in particular
Hampshire and Wiltshire. About
450 were sentenced by a Special
Commission which tried cases of
alleged riot, arson and assaults
which took place in the 1830-31
winter. The harsh punishment was
due in part to concern arising from
the 1830 revolution in France, and
the sentences were nearly all re-
mitted by 1837... .A.S.D. : Hurley
was born in Sydney in 1890. He
first went to the Antarctic with
Sir Douglas Mawson’s Australasian
Antarctic expedition of 1911-14.
He was with Shackleton’s trans-
Antarctic expedition of 1914-17 and
was official photographer with the
British, Australian and New Zea-
land expedition on two voyages of
the Discovery in 1932-33 and 1934.
. ...C.H.0.: There are many ex-
cellent paving-paints in a variety
of colors which would be suitable;
follow the directions on the tin.
For the usual house-paints you
would require a cement-sealer, also
available ready to use. As the
cement is not too new it would
probably be best to apply two or
three coats... .F.R.: Solecism
comes from the Greek solo-ikos,
speaking incorrectly, so named from
Soloi, a town in Cilicia, whose
Attic colonists spoke a debased
form of Greek... .G.H.: Brevet
rank is titular rank that does not
carry the usual pay. A brevet-
major has the title of major but
the pay of a captain, or whatever
his substantive rank is.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
P.W.: With “a theme that, in
a way, embraces the whole history
of a civilisation,” 16 lines leaves
little room for development....
R.D.: The tractors were a bit
sluggish; “Picnic Races” came
close... .R.E.: No more about
Lady Chatterley. please... .M.S.N.:
That last line is a bit weak, but
with care it should sort itself out.
R.K.: Can’t think of a title
either, but here you go:
They’re trying out a plastic road
To town and city join ;
They’re trying out a plastic coin
To ease the taxes’ load.
About a century ago
Came ♦to a soulless void
The miracle of celluloid
From which all plastics grow.
And now it’s all so commonplace—
Miles of wireless flex
And tables topped with Laminex
(Much harder to deface).
And poets will, next century, !
Walk on plastic hills
And write of plastic daffodils
With plastic ecstasy.


LETTERS
The Forster Report
VI/'hoever else may receive
comfort or consolation
from the Forster Report on
Northern Territory Agriculture
the few incurable optimists
already farming in those parts
will not.
In the summary issued little
mention is made of any existing
agricultural activity. This
perhaps is bare justice. After
14 years of extensive (and ex-
pensive) local research by
C.5.1.R.0. and at least seven
years of extension experimental
work by the agricultural branch
of N.T. Administration the
latest available figures (1958-
59) show only 1012 acres under
crop, other than land cropped
to rice.
The Forster Committee does
not recommend any immediate
large-scale expansion. It sug-
gests the establishment of pilot-
farms, but gives no particulars
as to how many or of what
acreage these farms should be,
nor how many years it will take
to prove or disprove the econo-
mic agricultural potential by
this method.
It does advocate that the
farmers on these pilot-farms
be paid for their crops “prices
considered likely to prevail if
the industries were established,”
and that they be paid a mini-
mum wage in the event of crop
failure. The whole project is
envisaged as being under the
control of a Land Development
Commissioner. This gentle-
man, and his inevitable en-
tourage of secretaries, liaison-
officers, typists and so on, will
apparently work independently
of the existing C.5.1.R.0. and
N.T. agricultural branch, the
activities of which seem already
to overlap. The creation of any
new authority seems a waste of
money.
The committee holds the
opinion that “if private enter-
prise wished to commence land
development this should be
encouraged.” It does not
specify what kind of private
enterprise. Obviously not the
sort which now exists along the
Katherine and Daly Rivers. It
is significant that in two visits
to Katherine the committee
could only spare one day to
inspect existing farms or dis-
cuss with existing
farmers. The inference is that
“private enterprise” means
large-scale projects such as that
rather mixed success Territory
Rice.
As is perhaps natural, with
two of the three committeemen
C.5.1.R.0. personnel, much
emphasis is placed on research.
The local farmers, not one of
whom could market his
property for the cost of his
capital investment, would prefer
to see the economics given first
priority. The report lists rice,
pasture-plants and fodder-crops
in that order as the crops most
likely to succeed. It admits the
advisability of “continuation
of work on peanuts,” but later
mentions that the cost of pro-
duction of peanuts at Katherine
exceeds the world price by 4d.
or sd. a pound.
It would be interesting to
learn where those costs were
obtained. Peanut-growing at
Katherine has diminished be-
cause outside buyers won’t pay
anything like the Queensland
Marketing Board price. Two
seasons back, when Brisbane
quoted Is. Bd. a pound,
Katherine growers were forced
to sell at Is. If the Common-
wealth Government could get
as good a price for Territory
products as the States seem to
get for theirs the 150 farms,
each of 200 acres, mentioned
in the Forster Report would
come into production almost
overnight without any further
assistance.
The committee favors “varia-
tion in the present form of
land tenure.” When one remem-
bers that most of the economic
ills of Australia’s agricultural
industry may be traced to over-
capitalisation, any change in
the system which will allow
for inflated land values would
be disastrous.
Another suggestion is that
finance for farmers be taken
out of the hands of the Primary
Producers’ Board—our present
source of credit —and the field
be left to existing commercial
credit institutions and the Com-
monwealth Development Bank.
The private banks have shown
little faith in N.T. agriculture
and I have been officially in-
formed that the Development
Bank “is not interested in mak-
ing a lot of small advances.”
There is room for improve-
ment in the board as at present
constituted —but without it the
small-time farmer hasn’t a hope
of survival.
The committee recommends
a subsidy on phosphatic fer-
tilisers—something I have advo-
cated for years, though I have
also included all forms of
chemical fertiliser in my agita-
tion. Nitrogenous manures are
a must for the expanding
irrigated vegetable industry and
also for a lot of pasture-crops
and fodder-crops.
The final point: “The estab-
lishment of export-killing facili-
ties at Darwin is the only way
to get a permanent increase in
the cattle-carrying capacity of
the Top End” seems to be at
variance with a lot of opinions.
The Payne Commission ; J. H.
Kelly ; Sir Tom Play ford, with
his demand for the completion
of the North-South Railway ; a
powerful group which is advo-
cating a complete transport-
system from Bourke (N.S.W.)
to the Barkly Tableland —all
these seem to think that the
natural outlet for Top End and
other N.T. cattle is cross-
country to be topped-off for
killing.
With 20 years of cattle work
and 10 of various forms of
agriculture behind me, I incline
to the same opinion. The
only feasible alternatives seem
to be a concentration on the
Ord River Scheme in East Kim-
berley or the establishment of
scattered small-scale treatment-
works handy to the main
sources of production.— Tom
Ronan (N.T.).
Cause of Bushfires
Fires have broken out after a
coal-burning locomotive has
passed through a wooded or
grassed area ; but electric and
diesel motors have now largely
replaced coal-burners in the
country, so the steam-train can
almost be eliminated as a cause
of bushfires.
Some still maintain that the
sun shining on glass will
generate sufficient heat to cause
a fire, but I am sceptical of
this. Even if I am wrong, the
number of fires started in this
way in one season would be
very low.
In my experience 99 per cent,
of bushfires have been man-
made, either through accident,
carelessness or deliberate in-
tent. Hence, I believe the
authorities should concentrate
more on fire-prevention than
“He must have turned turtle.”


' » * i
mmm
771
Ready to FLY away at £5,555
Full Instrumentation Retractable Tricycle
Undercarriage Excellent All Round Vision
All Metal — V.P. Propeller Max. Speed 160
m.p.h. Dual Control
ECONOMY—3O m.p.g.—4.5 g.p.h.
CRUISE SPEED—I4O m.p.h.
FUEL INJECTION—WaIter M 332 Engine-
-140 h.p. *
RATE OF CLIMB—9OO ft./min.
RANGE—6BO miles
LUXURY—4 place
COMPLETE AFTER-SALES SERVICE
AND FULL RANGE OF SPARE PARTS
* LEASE PLAN
* HIRE PURCHASE
* TRADE-INS NEGOTIATED
* 40 MILLER STREET, NORTH SYDNEY. XB 1174
DHL!
AIRCRAFT PTY
iiifelifl
MBHIBBH
■
Bii ppilllll 11
wmtmmm
gi 1
* <***
&&!&&&
The AERO 145
today's BEST BUY at £13,900
Let us demonstrate to you 1960’s wonder 4-5 place
twin-engined aircraft. The **Aero 145’s” spacious interior
appointments and aircraft workmanship give you
unequalled value in its price range, for PERFORMANCE.
ECONOMY, SAFETY and COMFORT.
The world-renowned Walter M 332 engines ensure twin-
engined safety with single-engined economy. Normal
consumption is quoted at 10 gallons per hour. These
engines incorporate the latest design in fuel injection
and supercharging. Total output for take-off is 280
b.h.p. Cruising speeds up to 170 m.p.h. are obtained
with a total endurance of 7 hours.
For the business and professional man, the “Aero 145”
is the answer to all transport problems. Operation into
small areas can be carried out in perfect safety, with
take-off distances under normal conditions being 230
yards.
A TEST FLIGHT CAN BE
ARRANGED WITHOUT
OBLIGATION, AND AT
YOUR CONVENIENCE.
• HANGAR 274, BANKSTOWN AERODROME.
UY 1241
they do. This would make it
possible to let-up a good deal
on fire-control.
On a hot, dry, windy day it
is practically impossible to con-
trol a bushfire; the cardinal
aim should be to prevent them.
The creation of vast fire-fight-
ing organisations in the coun-
try to control and extinguish
bushfires reminds me of police
efforts to reduce the road-toll
by the wholesale booking of
drivers who break the traffic-
code. Admittedly, traffic police
and bushfire brigades both do
good work, but we shall never
make our roads even reason-
ably accident-free or protect
our country homes and proper-
ties from the ravages of bush-
fires simply by dealing with the
effect. We must get at the
cause of bushfires, and we can
do that only by investigating
the origin of every outbreak,
not necessarily with the idea of
punishing those responsible, but
by advice and education mak-
ing avoidable outbreaks less
likely in future. — M. F. Dixon
(N.S.W.).
Savings Bank Interest
Press articles on the per-
mitted rise in savings-bank in-
terest have stated that because
of such rises the interest
charged on house-loans will
naturally have to be increased.
The facts don’t justify this con-
tention.
At one time I managed the
Primary Producers Bank’s
largest branch, which was in
Warwick (Q.). We had a
savings section, and allowed
the same rate of interest
as the Commonwealth Bank,
4 per cent. Actually, the net
interest cost to the bank
worked out at 1.9 per cent,
when the rate was calculated
over the average total of
monthly deposits. This was
because interest was allowed
only on the minimum monthly
balance. A man might deposit
£5OO on the first day of the
month and allow it to remain
the whole month ; he was then
allowed full interest. But if he
withdrew £250 on the last day
but one, then all he was allowed
was interest on £250. If he
opened an account on the
second day of the month he
got no interest until the follow-
ing month. This is still savings-
bank practice. If the savings
banks allow per cent, (or
3f per cent, as they do in S.A.)
this money actually costs them
1.625 per cent, (or 1.875 per
cent, in S.A.).
Savings banks have a
perfectly valid claim to be
permitted to manage their
own affairs and fix their own
interest-rates without any in-
terference by Treasury officials
(some of whom are rank
Socialists) or politicians whose
knowledge of the economics of
banking is very limited. The
best interests of Australia
would be served if these banks
were allowed to do so. A 4 per
cent, interest-rate would cost
them no more than 2 per cent,
averaged over the year; it
would encourage thrift, and
make more money availajble
for housing.
But the savings-banks’ execu-
tives don’t strengthen their case
by making silly statements.
And when publishing their
balance-sheets profit-and-
loss accounts they are dis-
creetly silent on the actual
totals of interest allowed their
depositors, simply disclosing
the net profit. Why? —D. C.
Tilghman (N.S.W.).
Easing the Police Burden
The constant call in N. S.
Wales and most other States
for a larger police-force sug-
gests that Australia might well
take a leaf out of France’s
book.
In that country many of the
duties which are part of the
Aussie cop’s job are performed
by the Republican Guard —a
body of soldiers-cwm-policemen
specially trained for a number
of public-safety and ceremonial
roles. Apart from State duties,
they can be hired-out to public
bodies and even to officially-
approved private individuals.
The Republican Guard’s
main chores are guarding the
Presidential Palace, Houses of
Parliament, the law courts and
Ministries, escorting visiting
V.I.Ps. and participating in
State - sponsored processions,
funerals, etc. They are also
available (at a price) for theatre
first-nights, big sporting fixtures
and other crowd - attracting
events, and on special occasions
for private balls and parties.
A similar part-soldier part-
policeman force, established
and maintained by the Com-
monwealth under defence
administration, and posted to
military commands in the vari-
ous States, might be a godsend
to our overtaxed, undermanned
State police who, in the capital
cities particularly, are con-
stantly straining their limited
personnel to cope with week-
end sporting fixtures and other
events that come into their
roster.
With agricultural show
societies, racing and other
sporting bodies paying for their
services, the maintenance of
such “guardsmen” would be
largely offset. But that’s of
secondary importance to the
burden it would lift from the
shoulders of our always-on-tap
police-officers. Frank Snow
(N.S.W.).


Cobb & Co., of Yokohama
By H. S. WILLIAMS
"C. M. LOVELL-SMITH in “Old
Coaching Days in Otago &
So u t h 1 a n d,” Christchurch,
1931 —a book which contains
a brief history of Cobb & Co.
—states that Henry, Charles
and George Hoyt, proprietors
of the Cobb & Co. Telegraph
Coach Line in Otago, N.Z.,
sold their business in March,
1868, and sailed for Yokohama
in ss Albion, and there
started a line of coaches to
Yedo (the old name for Tokyo).
Lovell-Smith also states that
the Hoyts sent for two Yankee
drivers who were driving in
Dunedin, Tom Sayers and
Frank Rutherford. Sayers, it
seems, found “the unpleasant
habit of executing criminals at
the roadside—got on his nerves
and he retired . , whilst
Rutherford died in Japan of
smallpox in 1871.
Most of what Lovell-Smith
has written about the Hoyts,
and their enterprise in Yoko-
hama, agrees with independent
records available in Japan—
most probably records that
Lovell-Smith could not have
had access to. It has not been
possible so far to find any men-
tion of Tom Sayers in the
Foreign Settlement records in
Japan, but it is a fact that in
those days the public decapita-
tions, the garotting or stow
strangulations, the criminals’
heads displayed on pikes until
the crows had picked the eyes
out and fiothing remained but
the bones and wisps of hair,
the beatings, and the exposure
of criminals in unbelievably
loathsome conditions in small
bamboo cages, were common
sights.
It is also a fact that Frank
Rutherford did die of smallpox
in Yokohama in 1871.
Recently, when I traced his
tombstone in the Yokohama
General Foreign Cemetery, the
Japanese custodian informed
me that it is customary, after
50 years have elapsed without
any maintenance coming from
friends or relatives, to disinter
the remains and bury them in
a common grave, thus making
the plot available for others.
That information did not con-
form with my understanding
that burials in that cemetery
during the days of extraterrito-
riality were protected by special
treaties. I thereupon contacted
the U.S. Consul-General, who
is the present chairman of the
Cemetery Committee, and 1
have received his written assu-
A daily service to Tokyo
ranee that it is not intended to
disinter the remains of Frank
Rutherford. Perhaps that grave
is the only link now remaining
between Cobb & Co., of
Yokohama, and Cobb & Co., of
Australia and New Zealand.
After Sayers left and Ruther-
ford died, Cobb & Co. had a
negro named George who was
reputed to be skilful with the
reins, also a driver named
Stephen Fitzgerald of whom
J. W. Sutherland, director of
the Yokohama company,
asserted in court, when giving
evidence in a lawsuit concern-
ing one box of specie out of
sixteen which went astray
whilst Fitzgerald was driving
in a drunken condition: “He
was the best man we ever had.”
In his “Retrospect of Coach-
ing in Australia,” published in
Brisbane in 1917, William Lees
says that Cyrus Hewitt ran
a coach line between Mel-
bourne and Beechworth about
1857, but eventually sold out
to James Rutherford and others
of Cobb & Co. It is also related
that Hewitt then took a team
of coaches to Japan, but that
Japanese competition soon ran
him off the roads and he left
Japan a ruined man.
Other authorities have given
James Blake of Cobb & Co.,
Australia, credit for going to
Japan and establishing a coach
line. However, nowhere in the
Foreign Settlement records or
directories, or in contemporary
Japanese records, has any men-
tion so far been found of
either Hewitt or Blake.
If they did come to Japan,
although no evidence has been
found that they did, and if
they did bring any Australian
coaches, they failed to leave
their mark in Yokohama or
anywhere else in Japan. They
may have been among the
many who were attracted to
Japan in the early Settlement
days, and, after looking the
market over, decided it did not
hold sufficient prospects and
therefore left. There was at
least one other foreign coach-
ing company—Wm Rangan &
Co.—and several Japanese com-
panies, on the roads before
Cobb & Co. Competition was
fierce, but Cobb & Co. out-
lasted many of them.
In Japan credit for the estab-
lishment of Cobb & Co. in
Yokohama has been given to
the Hoyt brothers from New
Zealand. The only evidence
thus far unearthed to upset
that finding is an advertisement
in a guidebook published in
1881 wherein the date of
establishment is given as 1867,
one year before the Hoyts
arrived in Japan. However,
J. W. Sutherland, who would
have been the person who drew
up the advertisement, was not
in Japan in 1867, and so that
date could be a mistake and
intended for 1868.
But, except in name,
there was no real connection
between the Yokohama enter-
prise and Cobb & Co., of Aus-
tralia, or elsewhere. The busi-
ness in Yokohama did not
function as a branch or under
the control of the Australian or
the N.Z. companies. It was at
all times an independent con-
cern. However, one cannot
help but wonder whether Frank
Rutherford of the Yokohama
company was related to James
Rutherford, the famous govern-
ing director of Cobb & Co. in
Australia for over 50 years.
Business in the Foreign
Settlements in Japan in those
days was in a state of flux.
Many of the first arrivals—of
whom quite a few came from
the goldfields in Australia,
—were adventurous types who
were jumping in and out of
all manner of new enterprises,
selling out of one business and
buying into another. Soon
the names of the Hoyt brothers
ceased to be linked with Cobb
& Co., and the name of J. W.
Sutherland appeared. Whether
he came from Australia is not
known, nor do we know
whether he was related to the
Hon. J. Sutherland who, with
James Rutherford of Cobb &
Co., was associated with the
Eskbank Iron Co., out of which
modest beginnings the Lithgow
iron industries grew. Anyhow
J. W. Sutherland came to Japan
around 1871 and left in 1889.
During its heyday Cobb &
Co. was one of the many
unusual enterprises in the
Yokohama Foreign Settlement.
Its colorful coaches became
familiar in the Japanese
countryside. There was a regu-
lar service from Yokohama to
Odawara via Fujisawa and
Oiso where Cobb & Co. had
stables to supply relays of
horses, also a daily service be-
tween Yokohama and Yedo,
later to be known as Tokyo.
There is a colored woodblock
print, now very rare, of the
Yokohama waterfront by Hiro-
shige 11, showing the Consu-
lates and mercantile houses
along the Bund, Foreign and
Japanese merchants, Euro-
pean ladies in*crinolines, Chin-
ese compradores, sailors,
whalers, sealers and a Japanese
teahouse girl, also one of Cobb
& Co ’s mail coaches —perhaps
one of the original coaches
brought to Japan.


RELIC AT STRENGTH-FLED
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD
Sombre the sky was, and the pathway
sombre ;
or, if indeed there were sun upon the
leaves,
what eye could know of it, watching
through timber
only the fears there that followed like
thieves? —
fears that were tree-trunks or, among the
tangle,
vims that like pythons writhed where we
fled;
logs that like corpses rotted in the jungle;
any dark shape that could hide a foe’s
head.
So from the made tracks and the sodden
grasses,
mud of the clearings, and our gardens that
were,
up through the undergrowth we climbed
the slippery passes,
through the creek’s throat to the nose of
the spur;
thence to the forehead of the ridge, and
the ditches
dug round the hilltop and snarling there
with stakes:
safety awhile might jeer behind thatches
where assault crumbles and the spear
breaks.
Could we hold out, with water-vines for
drinking,
little enough food, and a sick man to tend?
Let the event wait; no cure in thinking ;
here was the fenced fort; and here might
be the end.
Panting and sweating, we, the failed, the
hounded,
set down our litter with a gasp; then, in
grief,
crouched, all silent, round the strong man
wounded,
who, should he speak yet, was still the
great chief. '
“Bury me,” his word was, “here where the
country
breaks in the middle and falls to west and
east.
West was our own land—now the gate of
entry
where the red invader comes to kill and
feast.
“East were our enemies of all times for-
gotten,
yet of times clinging to our people and
their kind.
New times, a new world, come now to
fatten
on the life done with, and swallow bone
and rind.
“Never despise, therefore, your own sad
courage,
warriors though you are, and warriors in
flight,
driven to the east to beg or to forage
where of old you plundered by the arm’s
right.
“You are not broken; you are not
defeated
by the force of weapons, by the strength
of men :
turn of the time, a spirit-shape, has gutted
all that our life was; a now has killed
a then.
“Press on. Surrender to the old foes, the
neighbors,
not to foreign thinking; for no man is a
slave
if the mind’s free though the body labors,
or if left, as I am, the privilege of a grave.
“It may well be that should there come a
wanderer
far in a new day and stumble on my
mound,
cook-pot and trumpet-shell—this that was
my thunderer—
strewn here as fragments shall warn him
as with sound;
“warn how tomorrows themselves must
have their morrow,
and the world changes and all is caught
in change,
which is ever a widening of some old
narrow,
ever an immersion of the known thing in
the strange;
“yet that the wastage of men’s attained
stature
is the one wounding that rips the land’s
heart;
but a slow passing and renewal grow the
future
seen from this high place where our ways
part.
“Here, says our legend, is the ghost-road
of the spirits.
Here the dead pass down the long spine
of the land
to the leap seaward from the cliff-turrets
at the last cape, where the dark shall take
my hand.
“Truth, or a child’s tale? One is like the
other
as they serve custom and order and our
lives
and the shared mind that holds the tribe
together,
which, when the breath goes, breathes
and survives.
“Take that mind eastward.’’ So we broke
and melted
as a cloud breaks in rain upon that range.
Downward we poured; but our strength
wilted ;
merged with all peoples we lost our name
in change—
not the chief’s thought, though, nor his
words uttered:
words pass a thought on, and thoughts will
find a word,
till in a far time an old soil scattered
grows a new meaning, half dreamed and
half heard.
And there was also the word at leave-
taking
which, heard, remains in the belly’s deep
nest.
That was the order for the ground-
breaking :
“Bury me,” he said, “with my length
across the crest.
“Level my feet like a weapon at the ready
aimed at the throats of the wreckers, that
their flood
•shall, at the point of the spear which is a
body,
check ; for I mark them their limits with
my blood.
“Well though it is that things — good,
evil —
grow, change, merge, dug-over by the
years,
hateful are ruin and trampling and up-
heaval,
loss unreplenished, and time not change
but tears.
“Feet are the hatred and the mind’s
torture
thrust at the spoiler by the strength fled —
which be the name you shall give at this
departure
to the lost country at the footsole of the
dead.
“But my head eastward is the mind’s pas-
sage
out of the old to the new thought found
down where you go, or above me as the
message
silent in the trumpet-shell left upon the
mound.”


but in which there is also a sympa-
thetic treatment of a girl who is
sexually responsive but does not wish
to go beyond heavy necking until she
is married. And even the liberated
mind must feel a little sorry that at
the end of the book, in a drunken
encounter, she loses out.
D. R. H.
Three Plays by Wesker
The Wesker Trilogy. Arnold Wesker.
Cape. 345. 9d.
These are the three plays by Arnold
Wesker which have been running
as a sort of Wesker Festival at
the Royal Court Theatre, London,
and which have won' the highest
praise from the London critics.
“ ‘Chicken Soup with Barley,’ ” said
Robert Muller in the “Daily Mail,”
“unquestionably confirms Mr. Wesker
as the most theatrically effective, the
most genuinely emotional, the most
dedicated and representative play-
wright of his generation.”
“Chicken Soup with Barley,” placed
first in the trilogy, is a “cavalcade” of
contemporary history as seen through
the eyes and the lives of a family of
Jewish Communists in the East End:
the high hopes when they are fighting
Mosley and when young Dave goes off
to fight in Spain, the disillusion over
the massacre of the Jewish Anti-
Fascist Committee in the Soviet Union
and subsequently over Hungary.
“Roots,” placed second, is a tragi-
comedy of farm-life in Norfolk, turn-
ing partly on the ruthlessness of a land-
owner or his manager who dismisses
the father of the family when he is
sick, and partly on the hopes and fears
of the daughter who is waiting for her
Socialist lover to come down from
London. Essentially it is an attack on
the complacence, apathy and small-
mindedness of the yokels.
The third, “I’m Talking About
Jerusalem,” is the tragedy of Dave, the
hopeful young Communist of the first
play, who has now retired from Com-
munism to try William Morris Social-
ism in the country, making furniture
for the rich. At first he works as a
carpenter for a neighboring farmer,
Colonel Dewhurst, who rather improb-
ably sacks him when he has helped
himself to some old, discarded linoleum
—Wesker’s upperclass characters tend
to be propagandist—and then the
furniture venture fails because the
wicked rich won’t pay his high prices.
So, disillusioned with the simple life
as with Communism, Dave and his
wife go not very hopefully back to live
in a London.basement.
The plays in themselves have a
strange lack of movement, any given
Act seldom leading with clear impetus
and direction into the next —a weakness
due partly to the long time-gaps neces-
sitated by the “cavalcade” method —-
and the three separate pieces do not
form, if ever they were really intended
to, a strongly integrated trilogy. The
first play, for instance, which is centred
on the old Communist parents, Sarah
and Harry, does not suggest any par-
ticular reason why the third play
should concentrate on young Dave; and
the connection between the second,
“Roots,” and the others is extremely
tenuous —merely that the daughter’s
lover, the Socialist Ronnie, happens to
be Sarah’s son.
But these weaknesses are not very
important. If the individual plays do
not move strongly from point to point,
each makes a satisfying overall picture
in the end; and since each succeeds in
itself there is no real need to weigh
their merits as a trilogy. It does at
least give some additional interest to
have the plays thus vaguely connected;
they do give, if patchily, an overall
picture of a family’s fortunes and mis-
fortunes; and they certainly have a
strong unity of mood.
The mood, the emotional tone, the
view of life conveyed in the trilogy, is
what really counts most. It is a pretty
dismal view, or an “annoyed” one, as
Wesker himself says, strongly influ-
enced, one would think, by the pessi-
mism of Eugene O’Neill. The one
character not brought to disaster and
despair is Beatie Bryant, the Norfolk
girl in “Roots” who, though her
Socialist lover deserts her, nevertheless
is liberated by his influence into a life
of thought and culture —an infinitesi-
mal advance. For the rest, the most
that Wesker can say, through the
mouth of his indomitable and not alto-
gether convincing old Communist,
Sarah, is that “If you don’t keep on
caring you die.” Sarah and Beatie keep
on caring one way or another; the rest
keep on dying.
But if the plays are fundamentally as
dismal as O’Neill’s—and one wonders
if it is the playwright’s business to
depress his audiences, and whether it
is not really the hard necessities of
mortal existence, rather than the faults
of society, that have moved him to
such bitter protest—nevertheless they
also have O’Neill’s vigor, compassion
and poetry. They do indeed bring a
new depth and sincerity, a color of life
and excitement, into English play-
writing.
Douglas Stewart
Greek Triptych
The Way to Colonos. Kay Cicellis.
Seeker and Warburg. 18s. 9d.
Kay Cicellis, a writer in her thirties,
was born in Marseilles from where her
family moved to Athens when she was
ten. She was educated in Athens at
the American College for Girls, lived
during the German occupation on an
lonian island and after the war worked
for U.N.R.R.A. and travelled widely
in Europe and the Middle East. She
now lives in England and writes (very
skilfully) in English.
“The Way to Colonos,” described
as a Greek Triptych, contains three
flawlessly written stories about modern
Greece; the starting point, or central
situation of each, being linked to one
of the plays of Sophocles.
The first story concerns a young
woman named Antigone who, with her
recently widowered father, journeys to
an island called Zante; the second
with a less-young and bitterly discon-
tented woman called Eugenia who
thinks she hates her frowsy mother
and tries to induce her brother Orestes,
an intellectual recently returned from
studies abroad, to take their mother in
hand and deal sternly with her sluttish
behavior. The third tale, “The Exile,”
is essentially the story of Philoctetes. A
youth is sent to an island to try to
persuade Rigas, a political exile, to
return to his outlaw group.
Except for the characters in “The
Satin Bower-birds
In summer they can afford their inde-
pendence,
down in the gullies, in the folds of
forest ;
but with the early frosts they’re here
again—
hopping like big toy birds, as round as
pullets,
handsomely green and speckled, but
somehow comic-
begging their bread. A domestic,
quarreling, amateur troupe.
Ordinary birds with ordinary manners,
uninteresting as pigeons;
but, like the toad, they have a secret.
Look —the young male bird—
see his eye’s perfect mineral blaze of blue.
The winter sea’s not purer
than that blue flash set in a bird’s head.
Then I remember,
how ritually they worship that one color.
Blue chips of glass, blue rag, blue paper,
the heads of my grape-hyacinths,
/ found in their secret bower; and there
are dances
done in the proper season,
for birth, initiation, marriage and per-
haps death.
Seven years, some say, those green-brown
birds
elect blue for their color
and dance for it, their eyes round as the
sea’s horizons,
blue as grape-hyacinths.
And when those seven years are served?
See, there he flies, the old one,
the male made perfect—
black in the shadow, but in the caressing
sun
bluer, more royal than the ancient sea.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


Exile,” the people in the stories are
perfectly horrible. Antigone is a
repressed, rejected young girl with
a lovely face but clumsy body, whose
ill-matched, ill-starred parents could
scarcely have set out more certainly to
have trained a selfish, loveless liar if
they had tried. Eugenia’s mother is a
somewhat enigmatic slattern and their
filthy, stuffy apartment is so excel-
lently described that it almost becomes,
in its own right, a character. As far
as it all goes it is all done very well
—but the result is puzzlingly unsatis-
factory.
This reader enormously admires the
stories of Eudora Welty and, allowing
for obvious geographical differences,
one could draw many parallels be-
tween her vision of the run-to-seed
American deep South and Miss Cicel-
lis’s Greece. No one can be more sordid
than Miss Welty when she likes, no
one can invent drearier, more moronic
characters or describe dirtier, seedier
surroundings.
It is no distaste for the genre of
these tales that makes one feel that
“The Way to Colonos” is an unsuccess-
ful essay. Nor does the difficulty seem
to lie in the use of the myths. One has
no purist’s feelings about this, and, for
that matter, the ancient myths are so
various, so all-embracing, so widely
interpreted, enlarged and ramified by
writers of antiquity that there is
scarcely any human situation which
cannot be related back to them. Here,
in any event, the myth is entirely of
the background.
The author says that she began
writing the first of the stories as “an
exercise in objectiveness The idea
was ta bring the story out of the long
ago, the fixed, clear, pure remote
archetype down into the tangle of
prose, of a prose-w0r1d.... So there
had to be a breaking-down of the fixed
patterns, a dilution of the concentrated
meanings.” To be fair one should
quote her more fully, but in that much,
perhaps, lies the stumbling-block.
She continues: “Yet however far
from the archetype the story drifted,
the myth never lost its power. I always
felt it at my back, giving me a peculiar
assurance, a sense of reality and a sense
of direction.” It would seem that, with-
out her knowing it, not only the myth
but also the characters remained
essentially in the background. You see
every action of Antigone’s, know
exactly how she looked, are told how
she felt, but still the reader does not
feel it.. It is impossible to do so.
You cannot imaging yourself or any-
one you know having a clandestine,
cruel love-affair of the sort postulated
here. It is at once too incredible and
too ignoble; and similar objections
apply to each of the other tales.
Nancy Keesing
Homage to Paris
Albin Eiger’s Paris, a rhapsody in
praise, dispraise and illumination of
that enigmatic city, is a curious produc-
tion to have come out of deepest
Tasmania:—
Be greeted, Paris, full of grace,
Paris, which has taken all we
possessed, and is still demanding to
be praised.... Paris, where a care-
worn Diirer face, vowed to poverty,
dressed in a black cape, sells sun-
flowers before the wine depots....
the city in which heroism dwells next
to commerce ; where near the pul-
sating stream of life, refugees live in
subterranean cubicles, sustained by
black coffee, and start a mail-order
firm; where ill the couloirs of
Metro stations, couples part with
endless kisses and tears ; where the
spectator on a corner sees a car
swiftly passing by in the red of the
evening, and in it the fleeting shade
of a woman offering her pale mouth
to the man with her with a gesture
of limitless devotion.... Into the
sweet soft light of the French sky
rise the cool museums, vessels of
ultimate spendor. O glory of
antiquity, sandaled feet
If this, though pleasant of its kind,
seems a shade too rhapsodical, never-
theless Eiger is also, and simul-
taneously, very much down-to-earth in
his testimony, writing about food, wine,
the traffic, the artists and the bohemians,
the poor creeping down to sleep in the
underground stations after the last
trains have gone, the futurist who
painted a copy of the Mona Lisa with
a moustache on it, even the telephone
directory. It is an “impression” of
Paris, not a guidebook, but it is a fairly
solid and comprehensive impression..
Heaven knows how the author has
strung it all together. There is no
logical development of theme. Yet,
with one memory crowding upon
another, and Eiger too eager to take
breath, it conveys an illusion of swift
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 623
Across
I—Confinement for a baby with a show to write. (4, 3)
4 —Sweet marble which is one’s best tongue. (7)
7 —lt won a Melbourne Cup setting for a Gilbertian
opera. (5, 5)
9—Eight of them have ruled England, according to an old
master. (4)
10—Drop a twitch of the theatre. (8)
11— Against one by an insect. (4)
13 — Outcry in Gilbert and Sulli-
van? (8)
14— Don’t keep her dry mutton. (6)
17— Large numbers go south with one
in the holidays. (6)
18— Chap to prepare for producing a
topgear. (8)
21 —Big roll to take it very easy. (4)
23 — Ronald, a good chap, and a
member of the wedding party
where the valuables are
kept. (6, 4)
24 Preposition. (4)
25 Footballer to reckon its
game. (10)
26 — Industrial organisation to pro-
nounce a benediction on the
unwashed. (7)
27 — Opposes sisters who are
injured. (7)
Down
1 — Gregory isn’t finished with
Grant, the swine. (7)
2 Creature to give a gun to a
dope and duck. (9)
3 It’s a little wrong, but here is
a crossbreed from 1-down and
2-down. (10)
4 Short is Tony. (6)
5 What bridesmaids hold up prac-
tice? (5)
6 Used to be some berth of a more
irascible nature. (7)
B—Sydneysiders know it’s over the
mountains, even though there’s
nothing over the mountains. (6)
12 — Write some label on mutton
figures. (10)
15 — Allows ham (minced), being a
non-Jewish religious occasion. (9)
16 — Prepared the U.K. for a trumped
king? (6)
17 — Anci e n t concupiscence of
Sarah. (7)
19— The deranged old man’s nuts! (7 )
20 — Youth’s wild oats wouldn’t be
nearly as good as these
creatures. (6)
22—A native doctor—highly destruc-
tive! (1-4)
Solution to Crossword No. 622


BOOK WINTER, Box 2«71, O P. 0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
and exciting movement. It has some-
thing of the headlong exuberance of
Zola’s descriptions of the same city.
A curiosity as an ebullition from
Tasmania, “Paris” is also a curiosity
in format and typography. An essay
built-out to art-book size, it is printed
on grey “glare-free Eucalyptus paper,”
in the kind of script (not very easy to
read) usually reserved for display-
faces, and the edition is limited to 300
copies, The publishers are Wattle Grove
Press, Newnham, Tasmania,
D. S.
The Penguin Jubilee
The main duty of Penguin Books,
it has always seemed to me, is to pro-
tect your first editions. A predatory
friend is reaching forward to claw some
delightful work from your shelves.
Instead of uttering an inhuman scream
you say lightly: “I think I have that
one in a Penguin. If not, I know it is
in a Penguin and I’ll post you a copy.”
It is far less expensive than losing your
valuable book.
There was the episode of “The
Horse’s Mouth,” When that first came
out in a Penguin edition I had three
copies to give away and a first edition
to keep. The time arrived when all
three Penguins had been stolen and the
need arose to give a present to a rich
and cultured friend. He had admitted
that he had never read “The Horse’s
Mouth.” “But you can’t send him a
Penguin,” a more generous member of
the household protested. “He’ll have
to have the First Edition.” In return
for the first edition the friend’s letter
acknowledged “that squalid bit of
literary garbage you sent me.” If it
had been the Penguin this would not
have cut so deep. But a first edition!
Penguins are now celebrating their
twenty-fifth jubilee. The theory that
people buy these paperbacks as extra
books is exploded by the sales list.
Imagine over a million copies of “The
Odyssey” sold in English translation.
How many of those buyers would read
“The Odyssey” right through? What
probably happened was that they
remembered the far-wandering Ulysses
from their schooldays and decided to
see what “The Odyssey” was really
like. There would be a feeling of
achievement and satisfaction in seeing
it there on the shelf. But you wouldn’t
press it on friends saying: “You must
read this.” Nor would the 1.083,000
copies drift about like those other
Penguins people forget to return. The
basic motive for buying “The Odyssey”
is probably nostalgia. ~ It is the dream
of a little ship and a brave crew.
The secret of Penguin success is
that the books are buyable. The
brothers Allen. John and Richard Lane
formed Penguin Books Limited in 1935
and started a revolution. Woolworths
pushed them at sixpence a copy, and
two years and one hundred books later
the Penguins crashed into the non-
fiction market with the quiet modesty of
an exploding oil dump. They lit up the
middle-class home in ranks of orange,
blue and green covers. People could
afford a Penguin.
The Australian company, since its
foundation in 1947, has had a dis-
tinguished career. “Part of the Penguin
policy,” the publishers announce, “is
to introduce more Australian literature
into its lists, which have a world-wide
distribution.” The catch lies in that
last phrase.
Penguin Books must select titles
which will have more than an Aus-
tralian market. Patrick White had
already so many admirers in other
countries that the success of “Voss” was
assured. Next year “The Tree of
Man” and “The Aunt’s Story” will be
Penguins, too. Three of the “Bony”
stories by Arthur Upfield have been
included. No doubt more will follow.
“Thd Penguin Book of Australian
Verse” has introduced our poetry to
many overseas readers who would
otherwise have no chance to find out
about it.
But one is tempted to press on the
Penguin editors a long list of favorite
Australian books we would like to
see in their covers. Is that neglected
classic “The Escape of the Notorious
Sir William Heans” too long? It is a
book that can be read fondly and
slowly—the perfect book to take away
on what may be a wet holiday. Sid
Baker’s authoritative books on the
Australian language would certainly
interest readers overseas. “Kings In
Grass Castles” is a bit bulky, but what
about Mary Durack’s novel “Keep Him
My Country”? I suppose it would be
too much to expect “Such Is Life”
(anyway my first edition vanished long
ago) and “Capricornia” is probably too
large. A Penguin would save my first
edition of that epic which is in con-
stant danger. However, this is selfish.
Others have their own lists.
There is considerable interest at the
moment in reprints of Australian
books. Not enough new books are
coming forward, and publishers feel
the urge to examine those that have
gone out of print, Rigby’s and Mel-
bourne University Press are only two
firms with a declared policy of reprint-
ing Australian books, and there are
others ready to dig for the truffle-book
still alive but buried. The circulation
of such reprints would probably not be
great outside this country, and that is
a pity. For the firms bravely reprinting
Australian books that have only a local
appeal are doing noble work. There
is a certain cachet in an Australian
author finding himself among those
Penguins which “have a world-wide
distribution.” but not all our books suit
this class. Our partisanship might blind
us to that clause: “world-wide distri-
bution.” For instance. I need another
copy of “The Swayne Family,” by
Vance Palmer, and I would like to see
“The Go-Getter,” by Leonard Mann
made available. What about “The
Ridge and The River” and “The Time-
less Land”? World-wide or not? You
can only read “The Man Who Loved
Children," one of Christina Stead’s
best, by favor of some lucky owner.
In their prosperous twenty-five years
Penguin Books have brought out about
3000 titles. I hope we can look for-
ward, by the time the Australian com-
pany has flourished as long as its
parent, to a comprehensive list of Aus-
tralian Penguins. May that tubby little
bird in the dress-suit always preserve
its voracious -appetite!
Kylie Tennant
Reviewed Briefly
The Beauty of Dogs: Introduction by
Brian Vesey-Fitzgerald, a companion-
volume for “The Beauty of Horses”
and “The Beauty of Cats,” published
by Max Parrish. Anybody who knows
the high quality of the earlier volumes
will need no further recommendation
to this one, beyond the assurance that
the standard is maintained. The large,
handsome book contains 128 photo-
graphs of dogs of many different breeds.
Vesey-Fitzgerald. discussing the failure
of dogs to find their way out of boxes
in scientific experiments, makes the
excellent point: “I fancy that the scien-
tist who could not swim, falling oft a
quayside into deep water (a situation
as foreign to him as a puzzle-box to
a dog), would spend little time reason-
ing about the problem which con-
fronted him,”
* * * *
The Battle of Britain: Edward
Bishop (Allen and Unwin). Bishop
reduces the figure of 185 German
planes claimed by the Air Ministry to
have been shot down on September 15.
1940, to 56. But. he says, this was
enough: on that day the R.A.F. “ended
any possibility of invasion—or of a
negotiated peace.” Well documented
and comprehensive, based on both
German and British records, giving
individual stories as well as the overall
picture, this is a fascinating history of
those stirring days.


An unsurpassed investment
guide and reference-
%e
ft
99
I
Published by
21-
per single
copy
A review of :—
ECONOMIC, MARKET
and
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS,
COMPANY ACCOUNTS
and
OIL AND MINING ACTIVITIES
22/6
a year,
post free
a
The Wild Cat Monthly ’ gives the most complete and comprehensive
analysis of company accounts, in addition to its mining comments and
economic forecasts.
It is thoroughly indexed on a continuous basis, and the pages are stitched
together for permanent reference.
Facilities are available for binding each twelve issues on an annual basis.
The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,”
BOX 2521. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
