

The Bulletin
New Guinea’s Future— -page 36
Wednesday, April 20, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
Breakfast with Unk White .


WRITE
SUCCESSFULLY!
The able expression of good ideas is the
essence of successful writing. Learn how
to translate YOUR ideas into successful
stories, articles, radio plays. etc M by train-
ing with STOTT’S under the guidance of
experienced Literary Instructors.
There is an unlimited market for well-
written work—make your pen pay!
For free prospectus «about STOTT courses
in Story Writing. Freelance Journalism.
Radio and TY Script Writing, etc., mail
the coupon today.
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne: 149 Casfle-
reagh St.. Sydney: 290 Adelaide St,. P.ris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St.. Adelaide: 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON ———
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without anv
obligation, jour Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AO.R (S.B. 890)
BOOKHCKTKK, Itox 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
LIGHT ON COLONEL LIGHT
Geoffrey Dutton has put a lot of
work into gathering material for his
life of Colonel William Light, whom
his contemporaries acknowledged on
his coffin-plate to have been the
founder of Adelaide during the brief
period he was Surveyor-General of the
newly established colony of South
Australia. The result is called
Founder of a City (Cheshire), and is
bound in an attractive wrapper made
from one of Light’s own paintings of
the City of Culture in its birth-throes.
The book assembles the known facts
about one of the most colorful adven-
turers who ever graced the Australian
scene; but its author lacks the touch
needed to infuse the story with the full
excitement incidental to such a life. His
book is one of long and solid para-
graphs which sometimes give it a
smell of tombstones rather than of the
effervescence of living especially
living in the circles in which Light and
his immediate progenitors had their
beings.
Fiction has nothing more exciting
to offer in the way of heroes than Light
and his father and grandfathers, or
more mysterious than his father’s and
his own female parentage. He was a
great-grandson of that famous Master
of King George I’s Buckhounds who
gave his name to the 18th century’s
headiest potion, “negus”; his father,
Francis Light, was bora of an obscure
serving wench, Mary Light, whose
name he took. He himself was the
offspring on the female side of a
Portuguese mestizo, who cannot even
be accurately identified, and who may
well have been a member of a parental
harem.
When it is added that he was born
in Penang, of which his father was the
founder, in the midst of a welter of
Oriental intrigue operated by Siamese,
Bugis and other strange people form-
ing a sort of human whirlpool round
a bewildered Sultan of Kedah, the
background is complete except for the
insertion into it of such light touches
as that his mother may have been a
beautiful Royal female envoy and that
her ingredients other than the Portu-
guese may have been Chinese or
Malay.
Tamil Chulias and envious Dutch,
French and Danish adversaries, all bent
on preventing the establishment of an
English toehold at Penang off the
Malay Peninsula, sat side-by-side with
a greedy East India Company as ever-
present troubles in the daily life of
the Lights.
Francis Light was certainly the
father of Penang. He just as cer-
tainly lived with his exotic mistress
for a number of. years, with five
children, of whom William was the
second, to show for it, but little else.
Penang was a poor relation among
British Company settlements.
Its ruler had “neither the money,
nor the backing, nor the opportunities
for corruption to live in nabob style”
in the hilly, uncultivated jungle, popu-
lated by a few gum-collectors and
fishermen, which formed the Penang
of the years round about the time
Botany Bay further south was being
colonised.
He died of malaria on October 20,
1794, leaving not even a portrait be-
hind for posterity, and not much for
his descendants, by the time his
executors in India had finished with his
possessions.
William Light was not in Penang
when his father died, for he had been
sent off to England, aged six, in the
Indiaman Duke of Buccleugh in 1792
under the care of Captain Thomas
Wall, an old friend of his parent who
had been present at the founding of
Penang.
At the end of a long voyage through
French-infested waters he was handed-
over to the care of a guardian. George
Doughty of Theberton Hall, Suffolk,
recently appointed High Sheriff of the
County, whose status brought him
within the ambit of Carlton House
society and the great Georgian brother-
hood of first-rank sporting squires.
The rest of his life was swift-moving
in the tradition of the adventurers of
his time—three years in the Royal
Navy on voyages as hazardous as they
were monotonous in the Channel; a
mysterious period in India; a sudden
transfer on the eve of Vimeiro to a
cornetcy in the 4th Queen’s Own Light
Dragoons, under Lord Edward Somer-
set, bought Heaven knows how.
Service throughout the Peninsular War
under a series of commanders, all
known to history, from the gadfly
Dalbiac, via Le Marchant —with whom
he seems to have been in the fatal
charge of the centre at Salamanca,
which saw his gallant chieftain’s death
—to Benjamin D’Urban.
Dutton rather buries him in details
of Wellington’s campaigns and excerpts
from all the well-known military
diarists of the day until sometimes he
seems to disappear altogether in the
morass of background fact.
After the war there was a period of
gaiety in London; an attempt at a
pierhead-jump to become Lord Edward
Somerset’s brigade-major in Belgium,
an enterprise frustrated by Waterloo,
fought while he was on his way; a
transfer from the cavalry to the
infantry—to the Buffs in Ireland, where
he married as mysteriously as he did
many other things, and lost his wife
even more mysteriously.
Followed some guerrilla warfare in
Spain under the curious Sir Robert
Wilson, ending with Spanish leaders
thirsting for his execution, a return to
the sea as a naval officer of Mahomet
Ali, Pasha of Egypt, and a marriage
to the illegitimate daughter of the Duke
of Richmond (and her fortune), with
a break-up to follow, and finally his
appointment on January 13, 1836,
as Surveyor-General of South Australia,
with the salary of £4OO a year.
The smoothness of his life in South
Australia, a prickly place for officials
in any case, was marred by the unac-
countable hostility of fellow-official-
dom and sections of the unco’-good to
his association with a beautiful damsel
whom he had brought with him, the
daughter of a laborer and probably his
erstwhile washerwoman.
The rest was gall and wormwood
until he died of tuberculosis at 54 in
October, 1839, uncomforted by a kindly
clergyman who refused to pray at his
bedside because “it is not the practice
of our church to attend the sick and
dying unless they express penitence
and desire the services of the church.”
So he had to make-do solaced only by
his wayward but faithful Mary
Ganday.
A dashing soldier, more in love with
deeds than with promotion, he was in
war a bold intelligence-officer apt to
ride through French skirmishers when
on reconnaissance, the boon com-
panion of Charles Napier—the most-
wounded officer on the Peninsula—and
(Continued on page 58)


/ \ -
0
&
D
O
A
D)Jb
Q
0
Full of Character,
mellow and blended
from the finest
old Scotch Whiskies
DISTILLED
by an old Scottish firm,
J. & G. STEWART LTD.,
EDINBURGH
whose reputation for
Quality goes back to
1779
BY APPOINTMENT TO
H.M. THE QUEEN
SUPPLIERS OF SCOTCH WHISKY
B
PTrr
iit j t i 111I 1 1
&HEIVS
nrriiTrnt
w„_ '
Usher’ s
(eO'NBUHOHI
OUAt'^
e *tr
Tended scotch wH*^
O' choice sc ° tch whisK ' e , ft o?:
PINT'
| f •UNOtO »T -
Ltd EaN6Uf«> H
m
T Uo
CSTD. 177*
j&r
COMMONWEALTH J
p *ODUCT OF SCOTLAND
AGENTS:
HARBOTTLE, BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
BU 1961 21 LANG STREET, SYDNEY 8U1961


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 20, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4184
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adama
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NO WAGE RISE
TNDUSTRY in general, and particu-
A larly the land industries, will welcome
both the decisions and the exposition
of policy of the Full Bench of the
Commonwealth Arbitration Commis-
sion in the basic-wage case.
The application for a 225. increase
came on top of the margins-award
which had added 28 per cent, to the
margins of certain metalworkers and
a basic-wage rise of 15s. granted by
the court last June. The new appli-
cation was accompanied by the
perennial request for a return to auto-
matic quarterly - adjustments, such
applications having already failed six
times.
The Commission’s refusal to revert
to the old system will be received with
even more relief by industry than its
refusal at this juncture to add to the
basic wage. The natural tendency of
producers who can control the prices
of their commodities is to play safe
against the possibility of quarterly
rises, of which it is always impossible
to forecast the cumulative effects, or the
ultimate justice in a community whose
economy is so largely dependent on the
export-market.
With annual adjustments based on
a proper review of conditions at the
time of an application to the Com-
mission it is at least possible to look
ahead and produce some order and
rationality in wage-policy, especially
when Governments, now so important
as employers, developers and dispen-
sers of Welfare State largesse, are able
to enter into the discussions and dis-
play the probable Budgetary effects of
new awards.
In recent years, even with annual
wage-fixing by the court, there has
been some conflict of policy and some
lack of order. This was inevitable
with wage-fixing virtually attended to
by two tribunals —enabling the trade-
unions to apply first to the Commission
of judges for wage-increases on award
rates and then to members of the mixed
Arbitration Commission, sitting singly,
for a secondary increase in the shape
of margins.
Confusion has certainly arisen from
the fact that while it has generally
been acknowledged that the Full
Commission should recognise the
annual application by a group of
unions as an application for an all-
round rise affecting all unions and
workers, a decision on margins for a
particular union has not, in the inten-
tion of the member of the Commission
hearing it, been specifically meant to
produce a rise affecting every industry
and profession. Nevertheless, the effect
has been general, and the award last
December of increased margins in the
metal-trades has added about £ 165-
million to the Commonwealth wages-
bill.
T-HE Commission in its recent judg-
ment accepted an obligation to
fix the highest basic wage the economy
could sustain so that wage-earners
might get their proper share of goods
and services.. But it held in mind
its obligation to the whole com-
munity, including wage- and salary-
earners, not to increase wages to a
point at which the stability of the
economy might be impaired and
inflation produced.
The incursion of various Govern-
ments into the proceedings had a
natural effect oh the finding. Only one
Government, that of Tasmania, sup-
ported the application. The States of
Victoria, Queensland and Western
Australia put material before the court
to show how their finances were
affected, but made no attempt to argue
a case. The South Australian and
N. S. Wales Governments stood aside.
The Commission’s attitude to Gov-
ernment intervention was clarified in
the judgment, acknowledging that
“Governments are in a special position
to give the Commission a proper con-
spectus of the public sector of the
economy, the state * of which is an
important factor in our consideration.”
It found particularly that it must
take into serious consideration the
Commonwealth Government’s convic-
tion, expressed through counsel, that
“what is needed now is a firm rejection
of any new measures that could add
to current inflationary pressures and
time for adjustment of the economy
to the general wage-increases awarded
over the past 12 months.” It was largely
due to the weight given to this official
submission that the Commission de-
cided that it should not award an
increase in the basic wage.
The arguments produced by the
Commission to support its decision are
irrefutable. The judges pointed out
that the 15s. increase granted on June
5 last amounted to a 6 per cent, aver-
age addition to the wage, and, with the
margins-increase set in train by the
metal-trades decision last December,
the whole year’s primary and secondary
increase would amount to from 8 to
10 per cent.
The impacts of these overall recent
rises on industry and on the Budgetary
position are not yet established, and
it is simple logic that “before these
effects are reflected in the economy”
it is not possible to “find that the
capacity of the economy is such that a
further basic-wage increase can be
awarded.” The Commission found it
“unsafe and perhaps dangerous to
increase the basic wage at this point
of time.”
CJINCE automatic quarterly-adjust-
ments were abandoned there have
been increases in each year—los. in
1956 and 1957, ss. in 1958 and 15s.
in 1959, plus recent, and in some cases
earlier, marginal rises on a generous
scale and so general that they make
primary wage-fixation unreal.
It is a step forward that the Com-
mission has come to state an orderly
recognition of the fact that margins-
applications in the same year or
adjacent years with wage-increase
applications must be viewed together
by the tribunals.
It is an even bigger advance that
the Commonwealth Government should
have the courage to intervene and
express a positive opinion in the
interests of the community as a whole,
including wage-earners.
The Government which takes its
courage in its hands to do that presents
the meaner type of trade-union leader
and the Communist with a sharp
weapon to use both against Commis-
sion and Government. The direction of
proceedings already has been set by
Opposition-leader Calwell, who, in his
usual generous spirit./has accused the
Commission of being “browbeaten” by
the Commonwealth Government.
Before Calwell says too much he
should have a look at the war-time
history of certain key industries —say.
the coal industry—and pray that the
Menzies Government will not use the
precedent of the Government of which
he was a member. That supine team
flouted every judicial and other
authority and handed-over complete
control to the Communist leaders of
the Miners’ Federation, producing
ultimately on the fields a chaos which
was close to anarchy and ruin.


WAGE-LIFTING COMPETITION
“Wait a bit till we see how he goes with this lot.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Germany the Issue
With the approach of the Summit Con-
ference the issues of disarmament and
general agreement on world-peace have
been for the most part shaped to exclude
what will be the prime issue—the fate
of Germany.
The suspicion has always been strong
that this issue formed the real reason
why Khrushchev has been so ready,
even eager, for the conference. His
propaganda has been used as cover for
a great acceleration, both in the U.S.S.R.
and in China, for a build-up of nuclear
arms and for the movement of troops
into strategic positions along the borders
of weak States which stand between
the Communist Powers and the Indian
Ocean and China Sea.
Khrushchev’s own position on East
Germany is clear; The Western Allies
must withdraw from Berlin and leave
East Germany from the Elbe to the
Polish border a “whole and sovereign
Power,” subject only to Russian military
domination, like Hungary and Poland,
and that this shall be a permanent posi-
tion unless West Germany can be inti-
midated into uniting with the East—
which has abbut a third of Federal Ger-
many's population and a tenth of its
industrial resources.
His plan involves the complete with-
drawal of Allied troops and influence
from Federal Germany, along with free-
dom on the part of East German stooges
under the hand of Moscow to Com-
munise the Western sector.
If the West wilt not agree to this,
then Russia will make a “separate
peace” with East Germany, the terms
of which will include the permanent
integration of Berlin as a whole in the
Communist' mass. “Separate peace”
means the same as it meant in Hungary
and Rumania and Bulgaria—permanent
occupation or control by Moscow.
The Western Allies have apparently
thought this issue so serious that they
have done their best to submerge dis-
cussion of it until it comes to actual
contest. But now, a few weeks before
the conference, they have made it clear
that they all agree that there will be no
surrender of Berlin when the meeting
takes place on May 16.
Their proposals will be very difficult
for Moscow to reject publicly. They
involve self-determination for East Ger-
many, based on a free vote and carried
out under the eyes of the world.
There would be little doubt of what
the result would be in a downtrodden
and poverty-ridden country from which
more than one-fifth of the population
has escaped to the West during the past
few years.
The Western plan provides for a
phased reunion of the two halves of
Germany through a series of free elec-
tions.
It is to bq hoped that Russia will not
be allowed to defer this issue. Every
year means that the Russian grip on its
occupied territory becomes firmer with
the memory of what freedom was like
—even the freedom of Germany —re-
ceding.
No doubt the Kremlin would be glad
to defer it so that it could be used as
a threat to peace and a bargaining point.
It hopes that if the pressure keeps up
and Dr. Adenauer is presently out of
the way, it will ultimately be able to
break-down resistance in West Germany
and suck it into the Communist maw.
It seems vital that the Russian bluff
should be firmly called. Settlement of
the future of Berlin and East Germany
on the lines of self-determination are
the testing points of Russian good faith
in the rest of the discussions.
Legislative Council
Shenanigans
The New South Wales Government is
reaping the reward of the measures it
has taken in past years to recruit mem-
bers for the Legislative Council.
After the Stevens Constitution came
into force, 25 years ago, Labor’s policy
was to use the Council as a repository
for old trade-union warhorses whom
they wished to replace. These plus a
few watchdogs wished-on Labor Govern-
ments by the more powerful financial
unions formed the first and second
strata of the new Honorables.
The coping-stone of the Labor side
of the Council has consisted of capi-
talistic members of the party with
ambition and long purses, but, as has
been proved by recent events, sufficient
of these feel that they had a life-contract
and that the decision to abolish the Coun-
cil was a dastardly breach of agreement.
Some of the old warhorses, too, have
the same outlook, but are not brave
enough to exhibit it openly since they
depend on office or Government favors
for their existence.
The position of the Council has always
been under threat and the policy of
Labor Governments has been to keep
it under threat; Liberal-C.P. Govern-
ments have often leant that way, too.
The situation is that at present
the Constitution provides for certain
possible measures in the case of rejection
by the Council or its failure to pass a
bill for a referendum on abolition—a
“free” joint-meeting of the “managers,”
a joint-meeting of the Houses and ulti-
mately, if the Honorables are obdurate,
the Assembly may by resolution direct
that at any time during the life of Par-
liament or at the next general election,
the electors may be asked to vote at
a referendum, despite all the Council
can do.
The Government is lucky in one pro-
vision which was fortuitously or other-
wise introduced into the Constitution
Act sections dealing with the matter —
at the joint-sitting it is provided that
“no vote shall be taken.”
Had there been provision for a vote
of the joint House meeting, the Council
in its present strong position would no
doubt have agreed to the Governor’s
summons with alacrity, since it might
have defeated the Government’s plans
outright.
As it is, the Council’s position rests
on the foundation of the words “rejects
or fails to pass it or passes it with any
amendment to which the Legislative
Assembly does not agree.”
Presumably on the best legal advice,
of which there is some available in the
Council itself, the majority in the Coun-
cil holds that a bill which it has refused
to receive, and which therefore has not
been presented for first reading, cannot
be rejected or fail to pass, and that the
consequent proceedings by the Govern-
ment and the Assembly do not satisfy
the requirements of the section.
It is a novel point.. Whatever its
validity, the Council has served notice
that if it dies, it will not be the result of
felo de se. It will be murdered or
nothing.
Having evaded this fate in a hundred
fights and defied such adroit and deter-
mined assassins as Lang, Evatt and
McTiernan and their bands, with a long
line of prior “reformers” and assailants
who did not reach the point of action,
it is in a strong position.
Quarterly-adjustments Buried
Unless the considered judgments of the
Arbitration Commission mean nothing
at all, no more should be heard of
automatic quarterly - adjustments of
wages. Originally introduced under con-
ditions, far different from those of today,
the system had a long trial. It worked
well enough when prices were relatively
stable, as spiall variations in the wage-
rates could either be absorbed by in-
dustry or passed-on, in neither case
causing any serious dislocation to the
economy. But when, in the early 1950’5,
prices began to soar, the fallacies of this
snowballing, self-reproducing system be-
came apparent to everybody.
There was a general sigh of relief
when, in 1953, the court first suspended
and then abolished the system, but it
wasn’t long before the Labor movement
forgot its fears and began agitating for
the return of quarterly-adjustments. This
became standard policy with the
A.C.T.U. and its rejection by the court
in four successive years, 1956, 1957,
1958 and 1959, didn’t deter it from
trying again this year.
In its latest judgment the Commission
said that the leading advocate for the
unions, Mr. R. J. Hawke, had criticised
the previous judgments and had argued
that it would be “inequitable and un-
just” not to restore the old system. In
putting his case he had relied largely
on the 1934 judgment. The Commission,
however, felt that it must decide the
question “in the light of existing situa-
tions and practices.” In 1934 the position
was that the basic wage was determined
for an indefinite period and the court
applied quarterly - adjustments to that
wage. Today the situation is that the
basic wage is re-assessed each year.
In our view, bearing in mind the interest
of employees, employers and the public
generally, the second alternative is pre-
ferable. The Commission should continue


to fix that basic wage which it considers
to be just and reasonable, knowing that
the amount which it fixes will be the basic
wage for the ensuing 12 months and will
then be reviewed.
The Commission considered, therefore,
that it was not inequitable and unjust
to refuse to restore automatic adjust-
ments, and it had come to this conclusion
“independently of what was said in
earlier judgments.”
After Latrobe
Although some prominent Victorian
Liberals have been shaken by the figures
in the Latrobe by-election, in which their
candidate got in only on the D.L.P.
preferences, independent and authorita-
tive opinion-takers in Melbourne don’t
regard the result as significant.
Until Casey went to Latrobe, the area
was politically marginal and could have
been won by a man of stature from
either of the two chief parties ; a Curtin
or Chifley could have made it a safe
Labor seat—for himself.
it was Casey who made it a blue-
ribbon Liberal seat by the personal vote
he won from electors who recognised
his integrity and worth. It would have
been no compliment to the new peer
or to the independent-minded electors
themselves if his young successor could
have got near his figures. John Jess,
the new M.H.R., is a forthright and
honest candidate of good stock, but he
is a political tyro, and has the job in
front of him of consolidating his hold
on the seat.
Since the poll both Labor parties have
begun to talk in lordly terms about their
prospects in Latrobe next year. The
A.L.P. would have a chance of winning
Latrobe if the vendetta with the D.L.P.
could be ended, but as this would entail
the end of unity-tickets and the loss of
control of trade-unions in Victoria, it is
hardly a probability.
Arthur Calwell’s talk of sweeping
Labor wins at the next election is in the
usual Calwellian Big Note. National
surveys show no general change in the
electorate’s preference for the Govern-
ment.
The Biter Bit
The United States Government is in
a spot over the Caribbean situation: an
example of how wise it is to look ahead
when showing self-righteousness in inter-
national affairs.
No nation was louder in its condemna-
tion of the British-French action in try-
ing to hold Egypt to its lawful agreement
regarding the Suez Canal and in seeking
to keep the British base on the Canal
for the mutual defence of all the world’s
commercial shipping-services.
And now its precedent is reacting
against it both in respect of Cuba and
Panama. The Communists were not slow
to see their advantage gained by the
Suez affair, and they have used it for
all they are worth.
Their first zone of action in the
Americas was in Panama, a small nation
which has attained prominence in inter-
hational oceanic affairs by reason of
the existence of the Panama Canal, a
waterway which has become of greatly
increased importance since the British
P. & O. and Orient companies have
begun to make the Pacific Ocean a major
consideration.
The net tonnage passing through the
Panama Canal has increased from 38.6-
million to nearly 50-million since 1955,
the year before the Suez affair.
A second reason for Panama’s mari-
time importance is that it has become
one of the two great hide-outs for ship-
ping tax-evaders of the big shipping
nations, and particularly for those of the
United States (Liberia is the other one).
The Panama Canal, the third-longest
in the world, built by the United States,
was placed under a Washington-owned
and -operated corporation in 1951. The
U.S. built it after acquiring the conces-
sion for the rights from a French com-
pany, on property acquired on a rental
and protectorate basis.
The U.S. is therefore much in the same
position as Britain was in Suez, and it
has not been difficult for Communist
whisperers to convince the Panamanians
of the logic of their claims to the whole
affair on the basis of the United States
Government’s own expositions in respect
of Suez in 1956.
In Cuba, where the Communists now
provide the inspiration for every thought
produced by the “Government” of
Castro, the agitation is against the U.S.
continuing to hold the great key naval
and air base at Guantanamo. This base
dominates the whole Caribbean and is a
vital link in the U.S. missile-testing chain.
Castro and his followers have made it
clear that the time is not far off when
they will insist that this base be removed
from Cuban soil.
It is known that relations have come
to the point at which the Llnited States
has been sounding opinion as to what
the reaction of South American countries
would be if a showdown were precipi-
tated with Cuba.
The result has not been altogether
favorable, since there are many coun-
tries which have resented the American
attitude of dominance within the
Organisation of American States which
is run from Washington.
Castro seems anxious for a showdown,
and no doubt has assurances from
Moscow of help and backing. Russia
would like nothing better than to see
Guantanamo evacuated and available to
be turned into a gun pointed at Cape
Canaveral, 500 miles away. Especially
if it could quote Washington’s own
words against it to justify its action.
Drink and Drivers
It takes some time to attempt to digest
the report that the Victorian Govern-
ment Pathologist, Dr. Keith Bowden, has
submitted to Cabinet after his lengthy
investigations overseas on the detection
of drunken drivers —and it then proves
indigestible.
There are close on 60 foolscap pages
of single-spaced typing; the report has
been called “The Massive Volume” by
those confronted with the task of chew-
ing it over, and its tastelessness is .due
to its many recommendations for further
inroads on the liberties of drivers.
Bowden suggests the institution of a
new crime “driving while impaired by
alcohol” —a lesser offence than “driving
under the influence.” Official fanatics
and professional narks claim that one
glass of beer impairs a man’s driving,
so that it wouldn’t be long before a large
proportion of Victorian drivers were
convicted criminals if they were brought
before certain magistrates, while the
more worldly stipendiaries might be non-
plussed in attempting to find where
impairment began.
The existing law, which requires the
police to prove that the person was so
affected by liquor he did not have proper
control, operates quite satisfactorily.
The suggestion of a special police-
patrol to concentrate on preventing unfit
motorists from driving hardly seems
workable; Bowden wants this patrol to
advise drivers who have been drinking
too much to move-on, forbid them to
drive for some hours or to withhold
the keys. Here again the existing offence
of being drunk in charge of a car is
more clear-cut and effective.
Dr. Bowden’s recommendations of the
greater use of roadblocks because of the
success claimed for them in, of all places,
the stilly fastnesses of Tennessee, and
the elimination of the right of the alleged
drunken driver to go before a jury are
evidences of the light-hearted approach
of the modern civil servant towards civil
liberties.
He favors graduated offences—driving
with ability impaired, driving intoxi-
cated, driving under the influence of
alcohol with an accident —and graduated
penalties. These varying shades of the
same offence are already treated dif-
ferently in the courts; which is why
some intoxicated drivers are sent to jail
while the less reprehensible drunk
escapes with a fine for a first offence.
Recommendations for the use of
safety-belts and a sustained intensive
educational programme are not new,
but are a welcome re-statement of
worthy developments in the fight against
the road-toll. The suggestion of an in-
creased traffic-police force with adequate
mobility is also not new, but is probably
the most significant of all.
It is well-recognised in Victoria that
the mobile traffic-section of the police-
force has not been given the required
number of menLbecause of empire-build-
ing, the old Government-department
dodge, within the Force itself. Thus
there are any number of special “squads”
with fancy American designations, which
senior police-officers deplore ; the traffic-
branch, perhaps the most vital overall
police-activity today, is starved.
It is quite probable that startling
results could be achieved, without the
adoption of any of Dr. Bowden’s un-
palatable recommendations from Ten-
nessee or elsewhere overseas, if the Chief
Secretary ordered the doubling of the
numbers in the mobile traffic-section
from within the force.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
IT was certainly some reunion when
1300 members of the wartime
W.A.A.A.F. got together again for the
first time since the war in Melbourne.
Six officials on the door checked num-
bers of ticket-holders, and the reunions
began there, as girls coming in recognised
mates or officers. Dr. Blackwood, who
was “Blackie” to her girls, caused a
traffic-jam when she went on the door.
Those who were in hung around in the
vestibule to see those coming in, and
there was a cheer for the South Aus-
tralians, who had come by special bus.
As they filed past one who’d been in my
section poked me in the ribs and said,
“You’ve got thin!” in an accusing voice.
I couldn't say the same for her.
The excitement was terrific and so
was the noise. It was funny to see girls
peering at those they thought they knew,
hesitating; then the beaming smile as
they were sure and the surge through
the mob as they came together. It was
funny to watch the groups, as the night
wore on, all dressed-up in their best,
but feeling the heat a bit. One foot
would ease out of a shoe and wriggle,
then another; but the talking never
ceased. Photos were brought out and
shown around. The photos on the walls,
of various phases of service life, brought
grins and jogged memories.
There were some men around the
catering staff, and a couple of photo-
graphers. One of them stuck to the
gallery running round the halls and was
commended for his bravery. He said,
“I wouldn’t go down there for any-
thing!” and pointed to the mass of
women below. A taxi-driver was asked
to drive a carload to the hall. He
groaned and said, “Not there! This is
the tenth lot tonight. You can hear the
noise a block away and there’s women
everywhere. The footpath is awash and
“ Wake-up , lazybones! Everyone's Waiting for you!"
the street’s full, and you won’t get in,
I tell you that. Well, it’s on your owii
heads.”
Whenever one of the harassed com-
mittee wanted to make an announce-
ment over the microphone, an ex-drill-
instructress had to blow her whistle long
and hard to get silence. The silence only
lasted long enough for the gist of the
message to be understood. Clare
Stevenson was there, the Queen Bee of
the hive. Habit persisted after all the
years in civvies and everyone was call-
ing her “Ma’am.” She held court all
night in various parts of the hall and was
regarded with affection and respect.
There was no programme, very few
speeches, and supper didn’t take long,
but in spite of all the hours for talking,
it wasn’t long enough and they just
wouldn’t go home. Occasionally a man
poked his head round the door and said
he’d come for so-and-so and an
announcement would go over the air.
Even the playing of “God Save the
Queen” didn’t move them. The com-
mittee acted as sheepdogs and gradually-
eased them out. Happy groups were
going down the footpaths, their shoes
tucked under their arms. What’s a pair
of stockings anyway, when it's a hot
night and the feet are killing a girl?
The cleaning-up didn’t take long.
Streamers and balloons down, placards
and photos off the walls. Three or four
people with brooms and one with a
squeegee, discovered in the boiler-room.
An ex-officer reeled back and said, “God,
it’s years since I’ve seen a squeegee, let’s
have a go!” to be met with: “Sorry,
only sergeants are low enough to use
one of these.” Another lass'said, “That’s
me, then. Hand it over.”
So it’s over. But the girls are en-
thusiastic about another one next year,
and South Australia has bagged the
reunion for the 21st anniversary in 1962.
But I’m willing to bet that if there’s
another one, every girl who goes will
take a packet of throat-lozenges in her
handbag!
Hup-2-3-4.
*X* ❖ ❖
A friend condemned to read
each issue of the Government “Gazette”
has just solved a mystery that has puzzled
him for years. In the lists of retirements,
sometimes, is inserted: “Quarter Day,”
“Half Day,” . and less often, “Three-
quarter Day.” This means that that
amount of time is deducted from long-
service leave as a penalty for being late
for work more than a certain number
of times during the officer’s service.
BOBBY-PINS
“An air-hostess’s bobby-pin, placed across
two electrical points, broke the electrical
system to the jammed nose-wheel of a 1 A.A.
passenger-plane and enabled it to land sately
at Brisbane airport.”
The nose-wheel rigid in its joints,
What could relieve the electric strain ?
A bobby-pin between the points
Enabled touching-down the plane.
I’ve seen them often standing-in
For missing-links in bathtub-chain,
Or doubling for a cotter-pin,
But never touching-down a plane.
I’ve found them in the backs of cars,
And in the U-pipe of a drain,
And in the crevices of chairs,
But never touching-down a plane.
I’ve seen them used, although I fear
That some would view it with disdain,
To pick the teeth or probe the ear,
But never touching-down a plane.
I’ve seen them insecurely clipped
On sober prose or verse insane,
In typescript or in manuscript,
But never touching-down a plane.
And even, hid in women’s hair
As black as night, as gold as grain,
I’ve seen them touching-up the fair —
And now they’re touching-down the
plane.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


I\7hen Time printed its cover-picture
** of Prime Minister Menzies done
in oils by artist Bill Dobell I paused
at a bookstall to get a copy, but the lass
said there was none left. “Gee,” she
said, “everybody’s buying it; there must
be something in it!” —“Judee.”
* ❖ *
“Dud”: There isn’t much chance of
the straw hat regaining favor, despite
Maurice Chevalier, and though no hat
could ever be worn as rakishly as the
straw lid. “Cady,” “biscuit,” boater,”
“decker” were a few of its more
respectable names; it was also handy
as a basket if the fruit-bag burst ;
our sisters often borrowed it and
wore it. It was also a weapon of
offence. When it had a saw-toothed brim
swiping or cutting a man’s face with it
caused terrible injuries, even blinding.
When a push called the “Straw-hat
Brigade” used straw hats in a brawl they
did as much damage as others using
bottles.
❖ ❖
“Hattie Hop”: Apropos home-applied
school-teaching to children (B. 30/3/’6O),
my father having noticed a depletion in
his fruit crop addressed a mathematical
problem to his three youngest children:
“If a tree has fifty peaches on it and
A. takes four, and S. takes five, and
D. takes six, how many are left on the
tree?” A. and S. assumed a guilty
silence,, but little D. replied haughtily:
“We don't do peaches at our school.
We only do plums.”
* * *
“Desm”: Have heard of people drink-
ing a yard of beer (from a yard-long
glass), but the Green Dragon Hotel on
South Terrace, Adelaide, has been
selling beer by the pound for years ; the
public pound is just over the road in a
corner of the park-lands.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Pity the big screens in
several of Sydney’s city theatres don’t
have tiny knobs set in crevices or some-
where (B. 6/ 4/ ’6O) to remove lateral lines.
These lines have appeared with varying
prominence of late during the screening
of several important films; I again
spotted the defect during “Solomon and
Sheba” across the wide, curved screen
at the Paris. ■
*i* *i*
“Norque”: As to gold (B. 30/3/’60):
a very-junior in a West Country (Eng-
land) private bank, pre-1914, sent to
take or fetch surplus or replenishment of
Jimmy O'Goblins to and from other
banks in town, my usual procedure was
to hug a canvas-bag (£1000) under each
arm and get going. Escort was not neces-
sary with a member of the County Con-
stabulary on point-duty in Fore Street.
Supposing . . . well, yes, I had nutted
that out too. What better weapon than
a bag of sovereigns slap in the dial, with
another one for spare? My last pay with
half-sovereigns was in the first week in
“Sabotage!”
August when the Kaiser had got going
and I was heading for a bob-a-day Army.
Yes, six halves—a month’s pay, for,
mark you, I was on a salary of £36 a
year. And no tax!
*
“Dud”: The Claude West mentioned
in the surfboard story (B. 30/3/’6O) was
awarded the prize for “The Brownest
Man on the Beach” on Ocean Beach,
Manly, in 1913. Then man held sway
on the beaches ; beach-girl contests didn't
come until about 1925. The brownest-
man competitions were keenly fought on
all the beaches, and the grand final took
place, before large crowds, at Manly.
-»£«■ ♦£* -*s«■
“C.H.R.”: Gold would have to rise
much higher before a Sydney business-
man would part with the 1910 half-
sovereign on his watch-chain. He has
had one side engraved: “My First
Wages,” followed by his name and the
date. I know ; I paid him.
♦♦♦ *i* *>
“Mugga Way”: Friend of mine, pro-
prietor of a laundry, tells me that three
years ago the members of his association
were told they had no future because
drip-dry, non-iron shirts and whatnots
would send them out of business. Now,
he tells me, he’s handling more than
8000 shirts a week, most of them of
this new material. His theory is that
men have now been educated into using
a fresh shirt every day but won’t be
bothered washing them out at night, and
that wives also object to daily washings,
especially as most of them feel the non-
irons really need a bit of a press, par-
ticularly on collars and cuffs.
❖❖ • ❖
“Kate”: Hal Gye, illustrator of The
Sentimental Bloke, was recently asked
if he’d sign a copy of that book for a
chap he met. An explanation and a
chuckle accompanied the book: it had
found its way into a convent and there
a nun, very carefully, very cleverly and
very artistically, had clothed the Kewpie
characters with fine pen-drawings.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Gone are the days when bank
clerks carried a few sandwiches, with
not too much butter, into town every
day in a small brief-bag, the tea being
a communal effort involving a weekly
contribution of about 3d. Plutocrats in
the higher categories would go to a cafe
and indulge themselves with hot-pie-and-
coffee for 9d., or perhaps coffee-scrolls
and butter with pot of tea. Some be-
came managers before they were really
aware of any other diet. Today, one
of the larger private banks is conducting
“classes” in wines for the staff and their
wives. Further classes will be held :
“Know your food.” “It’s all part of a
humanising process,” explained one of
the bank executives (I like that word).
“Once you could take it for granted that
new employees would know such things,
but now we find that we have to teach
them, along with deportment, good


manners and how to make easy conversa-
tion.” Again memory flashes a picture
on the screen of the old-time bank
clerks hopping into Johnny Connel’s on
the way to Flinders Street railway-station
for a 3d. glass of beer with a saveloy
tossed in for an extra penny. There
will no longer be any excuse for the
senior officer beg pardon, executive —
who staggered some of his guests by
serving creme de menthe before the
meal started. Yet another such one,
lunching with a customer, was over-
come by nostalgia for the hot-pie days ;
he gave his order, and as the amazed
“He designed it for an Arabian oil sheikh .”
waiter was departing called out after
him: “And bring it on a plate!” Per-
haps he had visions of it being handed
to him on a piece of newspaper.
❖ +♦♦ ❖
“Eliza”: In a sweet-shop window in
Melbourne’s Malvern a flat cane flower-
basket contained 6ne large Easter - egg
surrounded by about 12 small eggs.
Price was £lO (the bow of ribbon and
the cellophane paper, I was given to
understand, went with it), and I could, if
I liked, buy it on the layby.
<♦ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: Home from a party, our
small lass said: “Barbara’s mother and
father asked me if we had TV, and of
course I had to say no, not yet. “But,”
she added loyally, “I told them we’re
saving-up for it.” Saving-up to buy a
TV-set! The neighbors will think we’re
a quaint, old-fashioned family!
*> ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: They were having a
ding-dong row just beyond my fence-.
“Anyway, you’re not a man’s bootlace
to hide behind a woman’s skirts!” she
screamed at him. “What bloody skirts?”
he demanded, by no means facetiously—
nineteen-twentieths of her time she wears
slacks!
T’ve been a sub-branch judge in those
- 1 - Anzac Day essay competitions run
each year by the R.S.L. (B. 6/4/’6O).
Some entries bear close resemblance ;
obviously the teacher has given a
pep-talk to the class on the valor of
the Anzacs and then told them to go
to it. One dominie, apparently to get
away from the death-or-glory aspect of
war, emphasised that those on the home-
front, who made munitions, raised the
food sent to the war areas, and watched
and waited for dread news, were worth
an honorable mention. One boy from
his class set out in good style along these
lines, but developed an anticlimax:
“Yes, there's the whistle —the postman’s.
Mother and Father raced to the door,
fearing that their son had been killed —
but it was only the milkman coming for
his money.”—“Joanne.”
“Kenyas”: To escape from the party
din some of us had sneaked into the
garden. The meek little chap who joined
us winced as he heard the voice of his
several-sizes-larger spouse soar piercingly
above the rest. “D'you know,” he in-
quired diffidently, “the feminine for
‘silence’?” And when we said we didn’t,
he gently enlightened us: “Conversa-
tion.”
* * ❖
“Seascan”: Re Dunk Island and
“Signor Cranqui” (B. 23 /3/ "60): Before
I left in 1939 the island’s manager,
George Morris, and his sons built an air-
strip for Hugo Brassey. Soon after its
completion Lady Gowrie came up for a
short holiday. The permanent staff gave
her a great welcome, one of them being
so overcome by the occasion that she
addressed the vice-regal visitor as “Your
Royal Highness” for the rest of the week.
+♦+
“Cocuswood”: Rejuvenated by Sir
Gilbert Murray’s “Unfinished Auto-
biography” (B. 6/4/’6O), I recall my
happy and profitable schooldays in
Bowral, 1903-7, when I also sang boy-
soprano in the famed choir at St. Simon
and St. Jude’s on the cant or i side, while
immediately behind, a leading basso no
less, sang one of Nature’s gentleman,
H. E. Southey. He had been living in
retirement for some years then, in a
church - owned cottage adjoining the
glebe-lands. His daughters Alice and
Muriel were valuable singing-members
also. He was as Oxford as Magdalen
itself, and an understanding school-
master to us lads, none of whom were
angels. His regular holiday was a
camping-trip to the Diamond Fields
Creek in Lower Mittagong, a few miles
from the old Southey School, and his
alleged valuable collection of gems from
this field intrigued us youngsters no end.
THE NEW APPROACH
“The prejudice which many Edwardiaiuage
parents held against daughters marrying trades-
men was changed by modern thinking and
altered industrial conditions. Yet this out-of-
date idea is still occasionally held, mostly, it
must be admitted, by mothers.” —Womans
magazine.
In the days of long ago,
If he found his daughter’s beau
Was neither in, nor learning, a pro-
fession,
That tyrant absolute,
Stern Papa, would end tire suit
By boot, his forthright method of sup-
pression.
The idea fixed in his nut
Was, no working-bloke could but
Live in the very lowliest of squalor;
That his daughter simply must
Marry one who earned his crust
While wearing tie-embellished, stiffened
collar.
Along with shiny hats,
Walking-sticks and lemon spats,
Long underpants, straw-biscuit and
Dundreary,
Such a notion’s long been diced.
When she now says she’ll be spliced
To a tradesman, that’s what Pop would
never query.
He is now a democrat.
And, with margins and all that,
He’s aware his son-in-law’s screw
won’t be meagre.
Yet it isn’t this so much
That has brought the common touch,
Nor made him, for such nuptials, even
eager.
Oft I wished that I had sired
Some nine daughters, and acquired
As sons-in-law a brickie, electrician,
Plumber, painter, carpenter,
Motor-mechanic, plasterer,
A handyman, a radio-technician
All whod do a dam’ good job.
You can see that I’m no snob.
Why shouldn’t I have dreamed l
might accrue ’em ?
What, I ask, would be the point
Of my doing jobs round the joint
When I’d have all those spare bods
there to do ’em ?
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


spot of round-the-clock watch-
keeping on the small sub. - chaser
in New Guinea waters during the war was
much lamented until one of the crew
arranged a deal with a Yank merchant-
sailor whereby a quantity of Japanese
surrender-tickets were exchanged for an
alarm-clock. Thereafter, when lying
alongside the mangroves in between
forays for Jap subs., the watchkeeper
set the alarm each night for 5.45 a.m. and
was fresh on deck next morning at six to
waken the duty-officer, who had slept
the night through blissfully unaware that
his gallant little ship could have been
stolen from under him without a hand
being raised to save her. As signalman I
was duly posted to the cruiser H.M.A.S.
Hobart ; after the free-and-easy life of
the small ships it wasn’t without some
trepidation that I went aboard at Cocka-
too Dock, where she was undergoing an
extensive refit. I soon felt at home ;
as we had nb visual contact with the
signal-base, all messages came by tele-
phone installed in the captain’s sea-cabin.
In manning the phone at night the duty-
watchkeeper checked that the door was
securely locked and, before retiring to
the luxury of the captain’s bunk, arranged
with the G.P.O. awakening service to
phone him at 6 a.m. In place of the old
alarm-clock bell came a sweet feminine
voice asking, “Are you awake, sir?” and
having tried to make a date with her, a
war-weary signalman was refreshed and
ready to step ashore with liberty-men to
spend another day in the fleshpots of
Sydney. My God! How did we ever
win that war? —“H.M.A.M.L.425.”,
❖ ♦> tJ*
“Xped”: General scatter at our place
when cadet son had to turn-in last year’s
kit in exchange for one to meet the
needs of adolescent growth. Khaki shirt
missing, so Mum turned-out the duster-
box and produced an Army model from
the disposals, hoping that someone in
the Southern Command was a school-
boy cadet with 44 chest and 17 neck.
Character in the Drill Hall accepted
son’s offering with a cheerful, “You see
service in the Boer War, sonny?” and
replaced the veteran with a brand-new
model.
❖ *X* *X*
“Tich”: The most stimulating incident
of my shirt-scared career as an air-
gunner happened on the ground, in early
1944, at Marston Moor. On the tarmac
was a Halifax, with the newfangled
I.F.F.’s (identification, Friend or Foe)
gadgets mounted on the fuselage, for
observation and familiarisation. Max,
our navigator, killed that yeai* was a
gangling six-footer who could have
captained any awkward squad anywhere.
He was tired from leave. He was not
to know that the length of wire which
annoyingly brushed his dial as he went
past was the trigger-mechanism of the
booby-trap with which all I.F.F.’s were
fitted. It was there for the assistance of
inquisitive Jerry intelligence-wallahs, or
for us to pull in event of forced land-
ings in hostile territory. Max jerked the
wire. The explosion, though it blasted
only the I.F.F. and not the Halifax, so
wrecked our post-leave aplomb that it
took three tours of ops. to restore our
normal state of nervous tension.
❖ *
“Teeperce”: Environmental similarity
between televiewing at the caravan-park
and the open-air flicks during the island
campaigns in the 1942-46 Pacific fracas
(B. 9/ 3/ ’6O) reminded me of an incident
on Bougainville. Under escort, some just-
surrendered Jap prisoners were taken
to the pictures, but they protested
politely that they’d already seen the
show—before surrendering, they’d
“You’re taking my proposal very calmly, Sister Smithers."
watched nightly screenings on the reverse
side of the calico screen, with only the
mosquitoes to worry them in their jungle
concealment.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: My Old Digger blew
in. Quoth he, “Take a gander at me
eye ; got something in it.” I said, “All
right; you keep looking down and
relax ” As I worked on the lid, he did
just the opposite, and I started again with
the same advice. No sooner would I
grasp an eyelash, than I’d feel his eye-
ball pop up again. Eventually all was
well. He said in farewell: “Sorry to be
such a clot. I’ll tell you what I’ll do
with you: next time I’ll bring a pot of
beer and put it on the floor, then I’ll
be forced to concentrate on looking
down to make sure neither of us kicks it
over!”
♦♦♦ +l+ ♦♦♦
“Will P.”: Withdrawn, footsore and
weary, from the second Battle for the
Hindenburg Line, and hoping for a good
feed and night’s rest at the battered
village we’d reached, we of the old 16th
Battalion found four A.W.L. chaps in
Provost Corps clutches. One was well-
groomed, and looked like a base-wallah ;
another was cased in an American uni-
form carrying sergeant-stripes and a
decoration. None of us identified them,
but the well-dressed bloke had been in
the same section with me in Egypt, and
had quitted the troop-train on the
journey across France barely three years
before. The other was a real soldier.
He was an original member of the bat-
talion,' who was unlucky enough to be
in hospital when his company (D) em-
barked for Egypt. He stowed-away on
a sailing-ship for South America, where
he moved from Job to job and place to
place, always going north, until he heard
that the U.S.A. was in the war. He en-
listed, rose from full private, and was
decorated for bravery at Chateau-
Thierry. He was in Paris on leave when
lumbered. The police found an Aussie
identity-disk on a leather lace round his
neck. We came to the conclusion that
he and the base-wallah had given them-
selves up to get a free passage back to
Aussie. One, at least, deserved it.
❖ ❖ *l*
“Ashley Hill”: Of the many thousands
of servicemen encamped on the Atherton
Tableland during the war-years, 164 from
every Australian State, one from Malaya
and five from England remain on the
hillside looking down on fertile valleys
and up to timbered mountains —the War
Graves Cemetery. Inside the wrought-
iron gates is a book recording their
names, most in their early twenties, most
killed in road-accidents. Another larger
book contains signatures and remarks
of those who have visited the grave of
husband, son or brother. In the sun-
shine the hibiscus, frangipani and other
shrubs are shaded by tall silky - oaks,
birds singing in their branches ; at night
the cry of the curlew and the “sweet
pretty creature” of the willy-wagtails
mingle with the sighing of the wind.
Past the cemetery one comes to an area
left as Nature made it; no clipped
lawns or ornamental trees here: this is
where the aborigines are buried. Each
year a fire passes over, as this is snake
country. Gradually this area is filling ;
but the blacks are by no means dying-
out. Many still live nearby, and are
useful and happy citizens.


POLTICAL POINTS
When the final scores went-up in the
Latrobe by-election Liberal candi-
date John Jess was much further ahead
than his most sanguine supporters had
anticipated on the first figures. With
the counting of postal votes the lead of
Don Pritchard (Labor) dropped to 487.
Distribution of Republican candidate
Murray’s second - preferences raised
Pritchard’s margin to 575, but those of
J. Martyr (D.L.P.) went solidly to Jess,
giving him the seat by 28,999 to 24,508.
Actually, 87 per cent, of D.L.P. prefs.
went to the Liberal —-a proportion higher
than in the general run of Victorian seats
at the 1958 election.
• •
The Disarmament Conference seems to
be petering-out on the old note. The
“five principles” eventually put forward
by Moscow’s Zorin as a “new starting-
point for discussion” were described by
Moch, the French delegate, as “the same
old salad with new dressing.” The
French always were polite. Another less-
cultured delegate’s translation, was “the
same old baloney newly sliced.” Zorin
expressed his sadness that his proposals
had met “with no serious remarks.”
• •
For years the non-Government mem-
bers of the Legislative Cpuncil have had
no official leader, though, since the retire-
ment of Sir Henry Manning, Colonel
H. J. Clayton has been regarded as
unofficial leader. Last week he was
chosen as official Leader of the Oppo-
sition.
• •
Despite the pessimists, employment in
the U.K. continues to increase faster than
the rise in population. The rise in em-
ployment during February was 21,000,
and at the end of the month there were
403,000 more people employed than a
year ago.
• •
Citizens in several States complain of
the hangover from mid-Victorian days
which forbids the opening of hotels on
polling-days—although the happy times
have long since departed when aspirants
to (unpaid) Parliamentary seats were
often suspected of buying votes with
flowing mugs of ale. Things are worse
in Ceylon. For the recent election
taverns were closed not only on polling-
day but also on the day preceding it
and the day following it. A three-day
drought!
• •
The situation in South Africa became
somewhat calmer with the sitting of the
Wessels Commission to inquire into the
Sharpeville and other shootings and the
announcement that witnesses would be
freed of criminal responsibility for their
statements. The commissioner is a young
judge from Natal with a reputation for
fairness, although some press correspon-
dents are treating him much as the
Stuart Royal Commission in South Aus-
tralia was treated by a section of the
press.
• •
T ord Mayor Jensen’s venture as a
round-the-world real-estate salesman
seemed to have paid-off when a London
firm offered £1.4 million for the Sydney
City Council’s block of land in Martin
Place. It wasn’t till after the council
had accepted the offer that the buyers
revealed that they were counting on
erecting a building 600 ft. high. The chair-
man of the group said, “Theoretically
we are limited by the council to a build-
ing no higher than 17 stories, but we hope
to persuade them to let us put-up a 40-
story building.”
“Theoretically” is a rather strange way
of regarding what was (and is) an
important condition of the offer for sale.
All would-be tenderers were told of the
building-limit (which is the intended
height of the Commonwealth Reserve
Bank to be built opposite), and it is
probable that this may have deterred
other interested parties from bidding. If
the council now intends to raise the
limit it should re-open the sale.
• •
In Calwell’s view anything is good
enough reason for an election. His latest
is that, after being “browbeaten” by
Menzies, the Arbitration Commission
found that the economy was not strong
• enough to stand a rise in the basic wage.
This, says Arthur, is the P.M.’s fault,
and if he is so pleased with the decision
“he should face the electors and accept
their judgment.”
• •
Chou En-lai chose his time to visit
India badly. The preludes were (a) an
announcement that India is enlisting a
special border-defence force of 500,000,
(6) the meeting in New Delhi of 350
Asian-African delegates who showed less
indignation about South African events
than about “genocide” and the
“systematic and barbaric violation of
human rights by the Chinese in Tibet”
and the right of self-determination which
had been taken from Asian peoples by
the Reds,
"I wonder what the moral is."


A ccording to Heffron, during Labor’s
19 years in office in N. S. Wales “no
breath of suspicion has ever touched its
administration of the electoral laws.”
Where can he have' been living all these
years?
• •
Arthur ,Calwell can’t even pick a
loser. “This,” he said on the eve of the
Latrobe by-election, “is the swan-song
of the D.L.P.,” and a few hours later
the D.L.P. had increased its vote by 40
per cent., and kept the A.L.P. candi-
date out.
• •
Sydney watersiders at a stop-work
meeting decided to support the refusal
of Melbourne wharfies to work on Sun-
days. They maintain that Sunday work
in all ports should be on a voluntary
basis. All very well, but are they pre-
pared to allow individual members of
their union to volunteer? And if none
of their members want Sunday work are
they prepared to let outsiders do the
work?
• •
Not the happiest memories of Aus-
tralian unionism will be taken to the
U.S. by Harry Goldberg, international
representative of the American A.F.L.-
C. 1.0. who was a schoolteacher for 20
years, a delegate to the recent Seato
anti-subversion conference and a recent
visitor to Australia. He remarked on
his arrival here that the Australian trade-
union movement was regarded with high
respect in the U.S. because it had “a
long and honorable record as a champion
and fighter for the working-man.” His
remarks after leaving were rather dif-
ferent, for he was asking A.C.T.U. presi-
dent Albert Monk to condemn publicly
“the unseemly and impermissible public
behavior” of Melbourne Trades Hall
Council.
Goldberg pointed out that there was
“something rotten in the State of Den-
mark” when a leading member of the
A.F.L.-C.1.0. was prevented from saying
what he wanted, was howled-down by
Communists and had hurled at him,
among other choice epithets, “murderer”
—all without the leaders of the council
saying one word publicly of condemna-
tion or regret. Monk, who wasn’t present
at the March 31 meeting, at which the
interjections began when Goldberg re-
ferred to incidents in Tibet and on the
Indian frontier, has asked the T.H.C.
secretary, Stout, for a report.
• •
Students of Massachusetts State Uni-
versity have set a good example in self-
help. Levying themselves three - dollars
a head annually they plan to raise suffi-
cient funds to endow a “distinguished
visitors” Chair which they hope will
attract top-name lecturers in various
branches of science and scholarship.
• •
/An(E more a committee has recom-
mended the felling of timber in
Melbourne’s water-catchment areas, and
the Board of Works, which is respon-
sible for the water-supply, has threatened
the city with chlorinated watef if the
logging is permitted. Last time a com-
mittee made such a recommendation it
was accepted by Cabinet, but rejected
by 1 the L.C.P., which doesn’t fancy
chlorinated votes.
* •
A Maltese - born poultryfarmer who
has sold his property at Baulkham Hills,
near Sydney, for subdivision at a profit
of something like £350,000 is reported
as saying, “I reckon I’ll repay Australia
by cutting my poultry-profit margin to
a bare minimum. I don’t need any more
money now, and it’s the least I can do.”
A reasonable attitude, but he’d better
not let the Egg Board hear of it.
• •
There was still a “speech from the
Throne” when the newly-elected Parlia-
ment of troubled Ceylon was opened by
the Governor-General on April 6, but
the speech promised revision of the Con-
stitution to provide for the setting-up
of a republic “within the Common-
wealth” (like India), as well as for a
guarantee of fundamental rights for
minorities. The speech also affirmed
“the principle of neutrality and non-
alignment with Power -blocs.” There were
some smaller matters which might repay
examination outside Ceylon, including
the avoiding of Wasteful expenditures
and “travel abroad at State expense”;
reorganisation of the Public Service, and
moves for an educational system with a
religious background. Doubtless the
most popular item was the announce-
ment that the price of rice would be
reduced to 25 cents, per measure.
• •
Although the Plaza Hotel lease has
been agreed to by the N. S. Wales
Cabinet several Labor intend
to keep an eye on developments during
the winter recess. Premier Heffron has
promised caucus not to finalise a new
lease of the Wynyard tunnels without
putting it in the picture, but some of his
merry men aren’t satisfied with that.
They (and other people beside them)
want to know why some of the con-
cerns now interested in the tunnels
weren’t told earlier that they were avail-
able for leasing.
• •
“Collins Street”: Melbourne clubs and
pubs have been buzzing about the sen-
tence of a year’s jail—which will, in
effect, be three months—handed-out by
Chief Stipendiary Magistrate Addison in
the case of John Nicholls, the 20-year-
old Carlton footballer who got-away
with £5700 from the E.,S. & A. Bank
where he was employed. He’ll be eligible
for parole in July and is the type the
Parole Board has few qualms about re-
leasing, so he may be back in Carlton’s
ruck for the deciding games of the
season. x
The Victorian benches, higher and
lower, now seem committed to keeping
young people out of jail if it is at all
possible, and, if it isn’t, to sentencing
them to as short a term as possible. In
many cases, particularly those of sud-
den temptations to theft, the lower
courts don’t proceed to a conviction.
The results of this enlightened treatment
of erring citizens are quite remarkable;
very few return to the dock. As in the
Nicholls case, the real punishment is not
the loss of a job or the sentence, but
the shock of arrest and the disgrace of
publicity.
• •
TTow many misguided walersiders who
stopped work last Tuesday “to resist
industrial conscription” really knew what
it was about? How could a wharfie in
another capital be expected to know
that Victorian railwaymen had been
refused service grants at arbitration, had
imposed an overtime-ban which had
been complied with by the Railways by
cutting-out the men’s profitable Sunday
work and that Melbourne wharfies had
been withdrawn from the waterfront by
Communist manoeuvres to support the
railwaymen?
• •
“C.S.”: Whatever reservations might
be held about the profits of established
pharmacies, the rises of about 50 per
cent, handed down by Judge Gamble
in the Industrial Appeals Court in Mel-
bourne seem overdue. Pharmacists get
a rise to £3O a week from £l9 15s. and
managers from £24 2s. to £35. Until
last week the chief-pharmacist at
Flinders Naval Depot was receiving £22
a week. Many young clerks do better
than that.
• •
Stanley Korman reported on his re-
turn to Melbourne from selling a 25
per cent, interest to Conrad Hilton in
the £32-million chain of Chevron-Hilton
hotels planned for Australasia that the
hotels could never pass from Australian
ownership. In this he was probably
speaking for the relief of Americophobes
in the audience.
Australians will be able to invest in
the new company, which by the end of
1963 will have a Chevron-Hilton hotel
of international standard. Korman says
the agreement with Hilton will give Aus-
tralia advertising-windows in 50 hotels
throughout the world—which must in-
crease tourism in Australia, with the
emphasis, no doubt, on Chevrons.
• •
Queensland will hold a general elec-
tion on May 28. Nominations
will close next Tuesday and Premier
Nicklin will deliver his policy-speech at
Maroochydore early in May. Parlia-
ment still had a few months to go to
complete its three-year span, but the
Nicklin - Morris partnership apparently
feel that the time is propitious to take
the plunge.
The Nicklin Government came into
office in August, 1957, at the general
election w'hich followed the collapse of
the Gair Government and the split in
the Labor party. Present strengths of
the parties are Country party, 24;
Liberals, 18; A.L.P., 20; Q.L.P., 11;
Independents, two.


South Australian visitors at Sydney’s
Royal Easter Show last week included
R. C. Gosse, president of the R.A. and
H.S., and R. H. Sedsman, new director-
secretary. Sedsman brought news of the
S. council’s big plans and improve-
ments under way at the Wayville Show-
ground, ' anticipating record - breaking
attendances in September.
• •
The position on the V.R.C. committee
made vacant by the retirement of E. A.
Underwood has been filled by Maffra
grazier Fred Gilder, who won a three-
cornered poll. Before Mentone was
closed as a racecourse some dozen years
ago the new committeeman was chair-
man of the Mentone Turf Club. He has
raced some good horses, notably Gay
Ranick, last year’s Australian Hurdle
winner.
• •
John Blight was snapped-up by Aria
here on his way back to Maryborough
(Q.) from the Adelaide Festival, where,
with others, he had been reading his
own poems in the Elder Sound Shell.
It was the first time he had read in
public, but, being a saltwater poet, he
felt at home in a shell, and he said that
POET
there were also a lot of seagulls listening
to him. He was born at Unley (S.A.),
runs a chain of four sawmills near
Gympie (Q.), likes to eat grilled sole at
Aaron’s in Sydney, does a lot of fishing
at Maryborough and has a new book
of 75 of his sea-poems, to be called
A Beachcomber’s Diary, now trembling
on his publisher’s lap.
“Judee”: It’s unlikely that any other
occupant of a mayoral seat in Australia
has been given the honor that Newcastle
(N.S.W.) Lord Mayor Aid. F. J. Purdue
has had bestowed on him. The Aus-
tralian Grand Council of the Order of
de Molay has told him he is to receive
the Order of the Honorary Legion of
Honor, its highest award. It goes to Aid.
Purdue for the interest he has shown in
the work of the Order in the Newcastle
area, where at least five chapters have
been established in the past 11 years.
• •
J. H. Caddy, who has been seconded
from the post of secretary to the Premier
of Westralia to assist the secretary of
the Perth Metropolitan Markets, has
been in the Premier’s Department for
25 years, and has held his job as secretary
for nine. He’s no stranger to the mar-
kets ; his father had an agency there
for many years. J.H.C. was assistant to
the village-commandant at the Olympic
Games in Melbourne, and will be com-
mandant of the village in Perth for the
1962 Empire Games. A keen footballer,
he used to play for West Perth and is
still chairman of selectors for that club.
In War II he served with an anti-tank
battery of the Armored Division and
later with landing-craft in the South
Pacific.
• •
Major T. C. Keating, booked to take-
over command of Melbourne University
Regiment on July 1, was up New Guinea
way in War 11. Liaison-officer there for
a time, he later did a spot of instructing
at the R.A.A.F. School of Army Co-
operation. A senior mathematics-master
with the Vic. Education Department, he’s
a B.A. with a Diploma of Education, at
present instructing at the Highett High
School.
• •
“Joanne”: The Italian, Polish and
Ukrainian Roman Catholic communities
in Newcastle . (N.S.W.) now have their
own chaplains. Latest to be appointed
is the Rev. Father Georgei Spolitakevyzh.
What the reverend gentleman’s name
will be shortened to by irreverent Aus-
tralians I wouldn’t know.
• •
Now 33, and at that a veteran, N.Z,
composer Edwin James Carr minted his
first musical creation 20 years back,
since when he has written a swag of
works, with accent on the orchestra.
He kicked-off with piano, harmony and
counterpoint; won a bursary from
Auckland University to the Guildhall
School of Music in London, and
promptly hopped a ship and worked his
passage. He learned his art under Ben-
jamin Frankel in London, Petrasi at the
Rome Conservatorium and Karl Orff
in Germany. In Italy he composed music
for ballets for an Italian company, of
which he became musical-director for
a tour of 35 cities. A brief from the N.Z.
Broadcasting Commission brought out
his first success in his homeland his
Scherzo for Orchestra, “Night Music.”
A signal honor came his way when his
“Mardi Gras” Overture got a place on
COMPOSER
the programme of the Royal Concert
given in London as a prelude to the
Royal tour of the two Dominions. At
present he’s working on his most
ambitious assignment—a piano-concerto,
cdmmissioned by the N.Z.8.C., in the
first performance of, which Gordon
Watson will be the soloist.
• •
“Jock”: T. A. Herbert, who is secre-
tary (in Sydney) of the Meat and Allied
Trades Federation of Australia (N.S.W.
division), must be one of Australia’s
busiest men. As well as doing that
secretary job he is sec. also of the Master
Butchers’ Association of N.S.W., Country
Meatworks Association, Meatworks
Co-op., Ltd., Master Poulterers Associa-
tion of N.S.W., Smallgoods and Bacon
Distributors’ Association of N.S.W., and
the Hide and Skin Improvement Society
of Australia, and he’s on the advisory
committee of the N.S.W. Board of
Health, too. In between times he has
studied for and obtained the degree of
B.Sc. and the diplomas F.A.S.A. and
F.C.I.S.
• •
“C.R.”: Congratulatory telegrams
from the Queen and the Governor-
General came to Wilfred Spencer and
his wife when they celebrated their 60th
wedding anniversary in Perth. Spencer’s
grandfather came to Westralia as a child
aboard the Rockingham she was
stranded on the beach to which she gave
her name. A fellow-passenger in the
ship was the Bill Adams of Waterloo
fame. Mrs. Spencer came from Port
Augusta (S.A.) to Perth in the ship Gabo.


Here on a three-weeks’ business tour,
Admiralty victualling-officer Alexander
Clingan from his base in Singapore looks
after food-supplies for H.M. ships east
of Suez. His main contacts will be food-
contractors who supply the Fleet,
through the Australian Naval Board,
with tinned foods, meat and vegetables,
much of which comes from Westralia.
• •
Director of London’s Whitechapel Art
Gallery for the last seven years and well
known as an art-critic in leading periodi-
cals in England and America, Bryan
Robertson is now here for a tour of
Australia on behalf of the British Coun-
cil and by ( invitation of the Conference
of Directors of Art Galleries. His fort-
night in N.S.W. will include giving two
lectures in the N.S.W. Art Gallery before
going on to Newcastle, and he has left
a day spare in his programme for a
visit to William Dobell at Wangi Wangi.
He’s half-a-dozen years on the right side
of 40.
• •
“R.F.”: After long association with
the Kalgoorlie goldfields, Bob Lloyd
(formally, Robert F.) has given away his
familiar rounds as representative of
machinery and mining - supply firms
located in various parts of the world.
For a real change he’s planning a long
tour through the Baltic countries and a
taste of London, with rounds of visits
in Belgium and France en route. One
of his last jobs was lending a hand in
the winding-up of many of the de
Bernales interests. His association with
the goldfields really goes back a genera-
tion, for his father was postmaster at
Norseman in the late 1890’s, so he knows
the goldfields and the mining-industry
inside-out.
Appointed last year to the Darnell Chair
of English at the University of Queens-
land, Professor A C. CAWLEY was
born in England and educated at London,
Hull and Harvard Universities. Before
his move to Queensland he was senior
lecturer at Leeds.
Elected N.S.W. president of the
Associated Poultry Farmers of Australia
on a State-wide ballot, D. Syme, of
Moorebank (Sydney), has been 28 years
in the industry and runs a farm of 2500
birds. He’s been secretary of Moore-
bank branch for 16 years, State treasurer
for five, and was deputy-president of
the association last year. His successor
as deputy is S. A. Campbell, of Liver-
pool.
• e
“Maitri”: Australian composer-con-
ductor-pianist Arthur Benjamin, who has
passed on in London at 66, had written
all types (jf music, but it’s probably as
an operatic composer that he will best
be remembered. His operas “The Devil
Take Her” and “A Tale of Two Cities”
have been outstandingly successful, while
“Manana 1 ’ was the first opera presented on
TV over the 8.8.C.’s network. Other works
of note shotild include the rhumba he com-
posed in Jamaica in 1937 —it certainly gained
the approval of the Jamaicans; they gave him
a keg of rum for his birthday! Another in
the list would be the fanfare he wrote for the
Queen’s wedding in 1947, and he was also
responsible for the music of the film “The
Conquest of Everest.”
Born in Sydney, Benjamin was educated in
Brisbane; his career as a pianist started at the
age of six. Winning a scholarship which took
him to London's Royal College of Music, he
served from 1914 to 1918 in the British infantry
and with the Royal Flying Corps. He composed
his first violin sonata after he had been shot
down and interned in a camp in
Germany. He came back to Sydney to take-up
a position as Professor of Piano at the N.S.W.
State Conservatorium in 1919, but relinquished
this post in 1921 to teach at his old academy,
the R.C.M., London, where he remained till
1953, except for seven years spent as lecturer
at Reed College, Portland, Oregon (U.S.A.),
and as conductor of the Vancouver Symphony
Orchestra. At the time of his death he was
booked to conduct the initial American per-
formance of his “Tale of Two Cities.”
There are still a few in Sydney who remember
this talented, brisk, cheerful musician when
he was a professor at the Con., and many music-
lovers who recall with pleasure the performance
of “The Devil Take Her” by the Conservatorium
Opera School 20 years ago.
• •
Last surviving member of the first
committee of Wauchope (N.S.W.) P.A.
and H. Society is N. J. Lindsay, now
88. Guest-of-honor at the jubilee-show
a week or so ago, he was secretary for
the first 10 years from 1910. The man
behind the formation of the Show
Society there was Duncan Bain, who
gave a big piece of land for a show-
ground, and whose family, still asso-
ciated with the Show, this year gave
more land to the society.
• •
“Ailsey”: On Keera Hill, near Bin-
gara (N.S.W.), a granite memorial now
honors Hugh Robert Munro and his
wife, Grace Emily Munro, M.8.E.,
pioneers of the area, and also Allan
Macpherson, who established Keera
station in 1830. The memorial, unveiled
by M. F. (Mick) Bruxner, M.L.A., over-
looks the famous station, and was given
by Gordon, Doug and Nancy Munro.
H. R. Munro made the first successful
shipment of beef from Australia, took
a foremost part in sheepbreeding, and
as a racehorse-owner won the Doncaster
and Metropolitan, among other races,
at Randwick. He died two years ago
at 96. His father, Donald Munro, built
the first flourmill in the Tamworth dis-
trict. Allan Macpherson, original owner
of Keera, which the Munro family took-
over in 1858, also owned Mt. Abundance
station, near Roma (Q.), from which
Leichhardt’s ill-fated expedition left on
a bid to cross the continent. Mrs. H. R.
Munro was an early leader of the
Country Women’s Association in N.S.W.
PETER C. H. TAYLOR, advertising-
manager for T.A.A. and son of E.C.H.
(“Bully”) Taylor, former sports-master
at Melbourne Grammar. His hobby is
music, with several popular songs to his
credit.
Into the Silence:
,In Los Angeles, at 73, Clarence Gauss,
America’s first Minister to Australia.
In London, at 68, Peter Davies, publisher;
claimed to be the original of James Barrie's
Peter Pan.
In Melbourne, at 68, Frederic George
Huxley, who served with the R.F.C. and A.F.C.
(2nd Squadron) in War I and with the R.A.A.F.
in War 11.
In Sydney, at 91, Reginald Lloyd, veteran
journalist on Melbourne and Perth papers.
In Perth, at 94, Henry Ogilvie Allom, mining-
engineer ; one of the first to use cyanide for
goldmining in Australia. Hailing originally
from New Zealand, he had 10 years with the
Westralian Department of Mines before
managing mining companies in Coolgardie,
Kalgoorlie and the Murchison.
In New Zealand, at 48, Dr. Maharaia Winiate,
leading “Maori scholar and first Maori to get
a doctorate of philosophy at a British university.
In Melbourne, at 67, Harry Hey. chairman
and managing-director of Electrolytic Zinc,
Ltd., and former president and gold-medallist
of the Australasian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy. Born in Yorkshire, he studied
organic chemistry at University College, Welling-
ton (N.Z.), joined Electrolytic Zinc in 1917
and became its chairman in 1952.


ABORIGINALITIES
A big batch of those semi-domesti-
cated but ownerless pigeons that
frequent most Australian cities have
made history of sorts lately—"they, or
the lice that infest them, have been
responsible for a strike at the Newcastle
State Dockyard, and, even more striking,
they have caused the “S.M. Herald” to
use the word “lousy” in a leader! True,
the “Herald” made a half-apology by
placing quotation-marks on the rude
word to begin with, but later in the
article it sinned in cold blood, so to say,
by referring to the possibility of “a proud
ship being held up by a lousy pigeon”;
and thus, no doubt, the leader grievously
disturbed the ghosts of old-time Fair-
faxes and their editors. Which reminds
me of an occasion, a good few years
ago, when I attempted to use “lousy” in
the then-hallowed columns of the Mel-
bourne “Argus.” The subject was the
weather, which had behaved very badly
during several weeks. I wrote that Mel-
burnians were describing the conditions,
variously but similarly, as ( a ) appalling,
( b) beastly, (c) calamitous, (d) dreadful,
and so on to (/) lousy. Did I get by with
that last word? Not a letter of it. The
editor amended the tail of my effort to
read, “and so on down the alphabet to
A. P. Herbert’s cherished adjective drawn
“Like my new hair-do, Sophie?”
from verminous dugouts.” That’s telling
’em, Digger!—“Phil Anthus.”
* * * *
“Metax”: A well-nourished dachs-
hund dropped-in unannounced at a pet-
parade at Burnie (Tas.) and lined-up
with entrants in a fat-dog competition.
The gate-crash went undetected until his
owner found him trotting around the
backyard with the prize-ribbon he’d won
adorning his neck.
* * * *
“Cowyard Kate”: A relative, deciding
to give-up his racing-pigeons, gave them
to another enthusiast in the town. By
the time the next race came round the
lofts had been pulled down and a garden
planted in their place; but the pigeons
returned to their old place after the
race, and continued to do so every time
they were let out. Finally, tired of
shuttling them back and forth, the
original owner relented, fed them, and
built new lofts up the other end of
the yard. Hard to foretell the eventual
outcome, but after some weeks they are
still strutting mournfully around the
garden where their old lofts used to be,
completely ignoring their new lofts.
* * * *
“Ymar”: Record for a Murray-cod
caught in Taylor’s Lake, near Horsham
(Vic.), is a 71y-pounder with a girth
measurement of 36in. It’s only 30 years
since the first release of cod-tiddlers was
made in the lake by three local anglers,
who brought them from the Murray
River in a cream-can. These still waters
might yet yield a monster to beat any-
thing that came out of their river-home.
* * * *
“A.E.0.”: Seventy years ago, when as
a schoolboy I visited one of the several
barbers’ shops in a Victorian gold-
mining town, painted on the windows of
all saloons one read, “Haircut 6d.
Shaving 3d.” Floors were invariably
rough and bare, even though lino, was
only a tenth of the present-day price.
Near the hard wooden forms provided
for waiting customers was an ugly array
of spittoons, and on each of the mirrors
was a printed card: “If you expect to
rate as a gentleman, don’t expectorate
on the floor ; use the spittoons,” con-
sidered a pretty piece of wit. One’s
stomach would heave when a noisy,
throaty gargle presaged what was coming
from a tobacco-chewing miner; fre-
quently the floor was the receptacle, not
a spittoon. Wouldn’t present-day barbers
shudder if they had to clear-up such a
filthy mess! Ugh!
“North”: Lately Brisbane bayside
suburbs have been invaded by several
small flocks of large black-and-white
magpie-geese, the long-legged, rangy
fellows, with their half-webbed toes to
facilitate tree-perching, that were once
plentiful along the whole eastern coast
from Bass Strait to Cape York, through
the Gulf Country into the N.T. With
closer-settlement they were largely shot-
out, but in the N.T., their last real
stronghold, they have been raiding rice-
fields at Humpty Doo, swarming there
in thousands. Growers, protecting their
crops with Bren-guns and service-rifles,
have been using up to 10,000 rounds of
ammo, weekly. The magpie-goose is a
good table-bird, better when cultivated
grain has been on his menu than when
he’s forced to feed under natural con-
ditions.
* * * *
“D”: My companion in the compart-
ment of a Melbourne-Sydney train was
a toughened Gippsland farmer on his
way to all points north on holidays. He
was a strangely silent
man, but used to break
out now and again with
pointed observations on
the weather, politics and
other commonplace
conversation topics
resorted to by strangers;
but just as suddenly as
he decided to open a
yarn he would shut-
down again. During
the dragging periods of
silence he studied the
pages of Melbourne
“Age” intently. After
one of his reading-spells
he lowered the paper
and remarked, “Lots of
people givin’ up smokin’
and drinkin’, mate.” I
looked across: he’d been reading the
Deaths columns.
TTelp is being sought by Norman
Tindale, Curator of Anthropology
at the South Australian Museum, with the
following: Some 40 years ago, around
Charlotte Waters, lived an old aboriginal
known as Billy Kite, who from some-
where in the area secured blocks of
meerschaum. His only tools a pocket-
knife, bits of broken glass and a length
of wire, he carved pieces of it into birds,
animals, human figures and bowls for
pipes, selling these for a few shillings
apiece to tourists. In his way, he
had an artistic talent equal to that
of Namatjira; some of his figurines
could hold their own with any


v
(s(We OM
ISN'T (T
♦
y°° hr£.. . y/


of the world s sculptures, and today his
work is being sought eagerly by museums
and art-galleries. Well, now: can any-
one give some personal particulars of the
old man? Information required is the
name of his tribe, those of his parents,
when and where he died and the location
of samples of his work, now in private
hands. It would also be interesting to
know the site of his deposit of meer-
schaum. Billy kept its location a secret,
and the S.A. Department of Mines has
never been able to find it. —“Archaean.”
* * * *
“Ell-Kay”: Having listened to the
pundits proclaim that myxo. and “1080”
had lost their punch and that the now-
immune rabbits were again building-up
in multitudes, I hauled out my traps.
First night’s catch: one cat, one goanna,
one possum, two rabbits. Next night:
one magpie, another fummy, no rabbits,
and my own dog having to be taken out
twice. The traps are again stored ; but
one of them has me tricked. It’s stamped
“X. L. Tonks.” Can’t remember borrow-
ing from anyone by that name, and no
old-timer around recalls the brand. Any-
one know it?
* * * *
“O’Twit”: Have often wondered if the
legless pilot Douglas Bader had any
bother at high altitudes? I knew
an aircrew trainee who lost a leg when
he became entangled with a balloon-
cable. He was to meet strife at every
new station, where his rolling gait was
always queried; even the W.A.A.F.s.,
with whom he danced at station socials,
found it hard to believe that he was
not sound in limb. The con-
fined bomb-aimer’s position seemed even
smaller when his artificial leg iced-up at
the joints, and his request for anti-freeze
oil at the maintenance-section, a need
that was as essential to him before every
flight as briefing was to the crew, usually
ended with him slipping his leg and
shaking it in their faces.
* * * *
“A.K.”: The picnic-race season on the
Darling Downs reminds me of a meeting
a.few years ago at which a particularly
tough stipe, was officiating. One owner
was asked if his horse was trying in the
next race. Owner said, “I’m sure of it
—the stipe, just looked at the jockey.”
Incidentally, professional trainers call
these meetings “sports.”
* * * ijS
“Amdee”: As most coconuts fall at
night, danger is negligible. Coconuts
grow in a cluster somewhat like grapes ;
they hang “eyes-up,” and are, moreover,
effectively blindfolded by two or three
inches of dense fibre. The outer husk
and its smooth green skin contract as the
nut reaches maturity. The skin turns
brown ; fibres stretch and are weakened
by periods of intense tropical heat; then
along comes the cool nightly showers the
novelist loves to write about. The hollow
at the base of the nuts fills with rain-
water, to be absorbed by the weakened
fibres, and so the crash to earth, when
people are safely away snoozing.
“Nes”: The second-largest native local-
government council in New Guinea has
declared price-control that should make
Australians quite jealous: Hens’ eggs,
Is. doz.; tomatoes, 6d. doz. small, Is.
doz. large; oranges, Id. smallbunch
bananas, 10s.; very small, 55.; really
very small bunch, 25.; eating-fowls, 10s.;
lizards, Is. Id.; bandicoots, 2s.
* * * *
“Peter Piper”: Billy Mitchell was a
drovers’ cook, and whenever he got back
“We re sick and tired of moon-attempts. We're having
a go at the earth's centre."
to town he would give half his cheque
to Mum and reserve the balance for
grog and sundry investments in “The
Casket,” etc. When he won a gold
watch in a church art-union, Billy was
very proud, and so was Mum. “And
what’s more,” she said, telling the good
news to a neighbor over the back-fence,
“and what’s more, he’s sent it down to
Brisbane to have his entrails engraved
on it!”
* * * *
“Sunray”: A Martin Place (Sydney)*
building being renovated. Great
comings-and-goings across the footpath
from a lorry; for a few mornings bricks
being unloaded from the lorry into a
wheelbarrow, which was then wheeled
inside. To bridge the step from footpath
to the building, the builders were using
a plank of solid cedar! I remembered
the old house next-door to the home of
my youth, pioneer-built. In latter days,
the owners had replaced the bathroom
panelling with tiles. The panelling was
thrown out onto the woodheap and
eventually split and used for kindling for
the kitchen fire. It, too, was red cedar.
* * * Sc
“Shamuseen”: It doesn’t seem to be
generally known that the stingray is a
marine marsupial. The litter of very
small ’rays is carried in a maternal recess,
which they can leave at will, or scurry
back into if danger looms. When shelter-
ing in their haven their existence is
undetectable unless
the captured mater-
nal ’ray is shaken
vigorously, where-
upon they will spill-
out as chips from a
poker - machine do
on rare occasions.
Boiled 'ray some-
times figures on
North Queensland
abo. menus. Japs in
the Thursday Island
m.-0.-p. fleets were
also partial to it,
and had a practice,
either scientific or
superstitious,- of
boiling a two - bob
piece with the "ray
—claimed to neu-
tralise a certain
noxious element.
Octopus for the pot
was similarly
treated. Binghi,
though, used an-
other method with
the 'pus, beating the
tentacles on a rock
to force out the
liquid content of the
suction sacs, which
process, he claimed,
removed the
poisonous charac-
teristics.
* * *
“Sanasi” (Q.): I
once heard some
outspoken visitor to
Sydney say that if they swept the
refuse on their streets into the Harbor
there would cease to be a Harbor;
similarly, if the junk under Brisbane
houses-on-stilts were bulldozed into
the vermin-breeding gullies the city
would be a better place to live
in. My last job -of - work took me
under hundreds of these stilty houses,
and most of them, underneath,
resembled a low-grade marine-store.
Except to park the kids, and maybe
some washing not yet dry on the odd wet
days, I see no justification for these high
houses. As to health—the Germans
in Rabaul were giving up the
idea , when we took-over there in
1914, limiting the concrete stumps to 3ft.
and netting-in the whole under-space.
Finally, the high stumps add to the cost
and tend to leave one with a wobbly
house ; and every few years, if the stumps
are wood, there’s a renewal-bill.


As an observer and interpreter of
ground-imprints the Torres Strait
Islands native is nowise inferior to the
mainland abo. Though the population
of a village might be 500, small children
know so well the individual footprints
of each inhabitant that they can un-
hesitatingly identify them. A few years
ago I heard a village policeman giving
evidence in a case of marital infidelity.
It was purely circumstantial, being based
on observation of footprints and signs
of a disturbed terrain. The idea of
challenging the accuracy of the recon-
struction never occurred to the defen-
dants. On another occasion two lady
tourists, one sylphlike, the other fat,
paid a short visit to our island. Next
day old Akiba, who had been away at
the time of the visit, so accurately
described the departed ladies that I asked
him how he got his information. I
learned that, during a stroll, the ladies
had sat for a brief rest Akiba had
pieced his description together after
observing the impressions they’d left
behind.—“ Laetitia.”
* * * *
“Flo. N.”: Highly-respected citizen
has just made the rounds with a note
from his family doctor urging all kind
folks in the area to behead their roosters.
Respected cit.’s wife has insomnia. She’s
just dropping-off when someone’s rooster
gives tongue, so it’s a case for the axe.
It s hard the hens have no comeback ;
they’re to be condemned to spinsterhood
just because their husbands are spoiling
some female’s beauty-sleep.
* *
“Ex-R.S.M.”: The 2nd A.I.F.
musKetry - instructor told us that
“.ifteen-feet of standing crop will
sto i a bullet.” Near the camp—-
Woodside (S.A.) —was a fine crop
of wheat just ripening, with a hill
beyond to stop a bullet if- the notion
proved to be a furphy. The owner, a
World War I Digger, readiiy agreed to
its being used in a test, and came along
to watcn. I let drive at the crop where
it was 120yds. across and, as we both
expected, dirt flew where the bullet hit
the slope on the
other side. Examina-
tion showed that in
places the bullet had
travelled 10ft. with-
out touching a
stalk. An officer
came out next day
with a .38 revolver
and fired six shots
through the wheat
into the earth on
the other side ; and
this time the big,
“slow” bullets could
be heard to rip
through the crop.
Further tests showed
that only the sand-
bag lived-up to its
reputation for stop-
ping bullets and that
the modern' .303
bullet would pene-
trate Bin. of solid
redgum or bluegum,
30in. of pine, Ift. of
jarrah, and would
sometimes knock a hole in a 9in. brick-
wall.
* * * *
“Simon Scrawler”: Willie Wagtail,
doing aerobatics at _ grass-seed level,
attracted my attention, and 1 saw a foot
of brown snake lunge up at him ineffec-
tually. While I disposed of Joe, Willie
chattered advice from the fence and did
an occasional recco-flight. The story
was easy to read on the sandy road.
Willie had spotted Joe while on-course
towards his nest. It had taken Willie
about 6ft. to wheel him ; he had then
angled him about £oft. back to the grass.
For how far the pursuit would have
lasted I don’t know. As well as being
one of the very few really popular fence-
sitters in existence, Willie is a game little
defender of his family and his eggcup-
shaped, fibre and cobweb castle.
* < * * *
“Sebak": T would have been prepared
to credit the current generation—and
Hollywood—with the Christian-name
Rock—until 1 began to delve into the
history of the Bris-
bane Water district
(N.S.W.) and found
that Davistown was
named after one
Rock Davis, who
died on June 27,
1904. On his death
at Woy Woy, in the
same locality, Davis
had one of the most
picturesque funerals
in Autralian history.
The coffin was borne
across the. Brisbane
Water on a launch,
with almost every
craft in the area fol-
lowing in an aquatic
cortege. In a small
creek near the rear
of the historic stone
church built in 1836
by convicts St.
"Captain s expecting dirty Weather ahead."
Paul’s C. of E., Kincumber—the funeral-
craft was moored and the casket carried
up the hill for burial. The headstone is
still in very good condition and the letter-
ing surprisingly distinct. The Christian-
name is free of inverted commas, thus
confounding any ideas that Rock was
merely a nickname or an abbreviation
of Rockleigh or some such aristocratic
handle.
* He * *
“R.A.McC.”: It would appear that
there are two Yarralumla properties (B.
30/3/’6O), and there is some confusion.
The property in Federal Territory was
originally part of the Duntroon grant
to the Campbell family. It was separated
from Duntroon when Fred Campbell
married. He lived there for many years
—built-up a very good Merino flock
and held the property till shortly before
his death. He certainly didn’t go broke
there, as he bought a magnificent
property, Red Hill, near Tumut, where
the Fields now have their high-class
Hereford stud. Fred Campbell also has
a Merino stud near Carrathool.
$ $ $ $
“Elanora”: ’Twas a bitterly cold morn-
ing. Our Parliamentary Committee had
been touring the district and the mayor
was giving us a civic reception; de-
canters of whisky and rum with large
jugs of creamy milk alongside .
One old wire-whiskers took a decanter
in his hand and in accents unmistakably
Scotch said: “Ye see, gentlemen, ye put
the whusky in the glass first, and then
add the milk. That has the effect of
curdling the milk. I put the milk in first,
then add the whusky ; then it doesna’
curdle”—and he helped himself. An old
Scot in our party later let me into the
know: “If ye put the milk in the glass
first and then put in the whusky, they
canna’ tell how much whusky ye’re
takin’”


Not a Bank but Safe as a Bank
CUSTOM CREDIT
NOTES
4 years.... 7%
3 years.... 6Va%
2 years.... 6%
18 months .. 5Va%
12 months .. 5V«%
9 months .. 4 3 /«%
6 months . . 4V4%
3 months .. 3 3 /«%
14 days' call .. 3Va%
Interest is paid in equal quarterly
instalments, free of exchange, on
the last days of June, September,
December and March.
A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue
of Custom Credit Notes has been lodged with
the Registrar of Companies, Sydney
The Prospectus and Forms of Application
for Notes are now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
All Branches of
The National Bank
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
All Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT
C O R P ORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. ’Phone: FM 5861
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE
CCN.14.440
Missing Friends
TO .JAMES PATRICK DALEY toimeriy
of Railway Parade Gravesend in the
State of New South Wales but. now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife OLIVE VERA DA LEY has
instituted proceedings against you for
a Divorce on the ground of desertion
Cnless you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before the Twenty-third day of May
1960 the case may proceed in your
absence You have until the thirty-first
day of May 1960 within which to file an
answer in tlie~ said Office This adver-
tisement is inserted by HERBERT
HENRY HOWARD of 303 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
WOULD any descendants of CATHERINE
or KATHLEEN MONTGOMERY and
DANIEL MONTGOMERY, late of New-
town or any of their children, GEORGE,
ANNIE, who it is believed married
WILLIAM RYAN, formerly of Carlton
James D, or -Jack A, please contact the
undersigned as they may be entitled to
an interest in the Estate of the late
THOMAS JAMES HARNEY, of Moobi,
near Scone.—McLELLAN O’RYAN &
CO., Solicitors, 146 Kelly Street, Scone.
MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone Cables & Telegrams
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327 “EMDECELEX.” Sy.lnev
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Concern on Textiles
£JTrom Canberra]
A N early announcement can
be expected on the setting-
up of an organisation along
the lines of the Hire-purchase
Conference to protect the in-
terests of the Australian tex-
tiles industry. The organisa-
tion will probably be known as
the Australian Textile Industry
Conference, and will be under
the chairmanship of R. J.
Webster, director of Bradford
Cotton Mills.
The decision to set up the
body was taken at a private
meeting in Canberra, attended
by representatives of all sec-
tions of the industry and senior
officials of the Department of
Trade.
It was arranged as a result
of fears of a growing threat
from Japanese textiles, and of
further competition as a sequel
to the abandonment of import-
licensing.
After each section of the
industry had outlined its
problems, Trade Department
officials gave a detailed sum-
mary of Government policy
on imports generally, and im-
ports of textiles in particular.
However, Government as-
surances of adequate safe-
guards were not good enough
for the industry, which decided
that some form of constant
liaison, with regular approaches
to the Government, was needed.
A sub-committee headed by
R. J. Webster was appointed to
draw-up a constitution for the
new association which will be
submitted shortly to a further
meeting, after which the
official announcement will be
made.
The organisation will be split-
up into various sections, which
will hold regular meetings to
discuss problems peculiar to
them and will report to a full
meeting of the conference
every quarter.
On the basis of the individual
reports, the A.T.I.C. will then
decide whether an approach
should be made to the Govern-
ment for assistance or any
other action which may be
needed to protect the industry.
All textile representatives
who attended the inaugural
meeting agreed it was better
for a national organisation—
such as the one proposed—to
make any necessary representa-
tions to the Government, rather
than have different sections
making piecemeal approaches
at irregular intervals. From
the Government viewpoint
there should be an advantage
in getting a balanced picture
of the industry's position from
authoritative quarters.
Trawling in the Bight
/Capital to enable Southern
Trawling Co., Ltd., to
commence fishing operations
in the Great Australian Bight
was provided by the Common-
wealth Government under the
Fisheries Development Trust
Account, which was established
from the proceeds of the sale
of the Commonwealth whaling-
station at Carnarvon (W.A.)
several years ago.
The co.’s first trawler,
Southern Endeavour, is to
operate in the Great Australian
Bight to test the commercial
possibilities of developing a
successful trawling industry in
those waters. For a number
of reasons, including the use
of unsuitable vessels, previous
attempts to establish commer-
cial 'trawling in the Bight have
been unsuccessful. The present
vessel has been tested under
the severe conditions obtain-
ing in Arctic waters and is
considered suitable for the
job.
The Federal Minister for
Primary Industry, C. F. Ader-
mann, said that during recent
years the population of Aus-
tralia has increased greatly,
but this hadn't been matched
by an increase in the local
production of fish, nor has
there been the increase in per
capita consumption which
would seem justified.
The Government is anxious
to encourage and assist an
efficient fishing industry, and
the Bight trawling is the most
important project so far for
which assistance has been pro-
vided under the Fisheries
Development Trust Account.
M.L.C. Capital
'T'he Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co.; Ltd., which
so far has made any acquisi-
tions of interests in other cos.
on a cash basis, seems to be
roliing-up its constitutional
sleeves for possible takeovers
on a share basis.
Its present authorised capital
of a million is all issued. Share-
holders are therefore being
asked to lift nominal capital
to £5 million, and to alter the
articles of association to allow
the board, in their discretion,


■V*'
b...
SgSiGlll
?RANDt
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
Australia’s
Better Brandy
smcnes
Pot-stiii BRANDY
There’s no drink at once so stimulating' ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGINGS
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS A DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
“And gimme four pennies for a phone-call."
to issue scrip as consideration
for any shares or businesses
taken-over, and to relieve the
directors in such cases of their
present obligation to offer all
shares first to existing share-
holders.
I.A.C. Debentures
I ndustrial Acceptance Corp.,
■*- the wholly-owned operat-
ing subsidiary of Industrial
Acceptance Holdings, Ltd., a
leading Sydney h.-p. financier
in which the A.N.Z. Bank holds
a 14 p.c. share-interest, is
issuing £500,000 long-term
and £500,000 short-term deben-
ture-stock.
Interest rates vary from
3+ p.c. p.a. for three months
to 7 p.c. p.a. for 15 years. The
issue is being made to replace
maturing debentures and to
“provide additional funds to
meet the steady demand for
finance by the co.’s clients.”
The debentures are at par,
with minimum subscription of
£lOO. Underwriters, lan Potter
and Co.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
A Victorian - registered
manufacturer of TV-
receivers, vacuum - cleaners,
refrigerators, metal - finishing
chemicals, bicycles, auto-parts,
etc., A. G. Healing, Ltd. is
offering £500,000 8 p.c. regis-
tered first-mortgage debentures.
The issue has been under-
written by Vinton Smith,
Dougall and Co., Melbourne
stockbrokers, and is available
at par in multiples of £lOO.
Most of new money raised
by the issue will be used to
expand the co.’s hire-purchase
subsidiary.
The Women of Weedmans’
\*7hen T. C. Beirne made
* their three-and-a-half-for-
one share-offer to Weedmans’
shareholders, both boards w'ere
satisfied with the offer. How-
ever,- on counting day T. C.
Beirne failed to gain the stipu-
lated 90 per cent, acceptance.
Furthermore, it appeared that
acceptances were not within
striking-distance of the re-
quisite percentage, otherwise T.
C. Beirne would have extended
the offer, or lowered the accept-
ance rate.
With Weedmans’ the grow-
ing influence of women share-
holders is apparent. Before
the T. C. Beirne board could
circularise their offer, the
Women of Weedmans’ had
banded together to forward
their own circular, advising
shareholders not to sell.
So the shareholders foresook
their suitor (who was worth
50s. a share) to retain their
own Brisbane store, their 10
per cent, discount, their heavily
increased capital, and their 20s.
shares standing at 365.
Such is the price of independ-
ence.
The Terrigal (N.S.W.)
Bore
[From “Kerogen”]
Tn common with the late L.
-*■ Owen, I have an interest
in “migratory” oil which has
been well to the fore over a
decade in my studies of the
origin and behavior of the
numerous coastal “slicks” and
their inspissation and oxidation
asphalts and bitumens that are
met with from time to time
on the Central Coast and
“shelf” of N.S.W.
Recent boring operations at
Terrigal have indicated that
these “slicks” are manifesta-
tive of oil existing in the local
measures at depth that has
migrated to certain egress
points on the “shelf” and
“littoral.”
Oil encountered at specific
horizons of the Middle Narra-
been (red beds) series in the
bore has been identified with
the oils both as to
class and characteristics. In
the column so far penetrated
there is one “type” oil only —
a heavy asphaltic crude, rich
in road bitumen and lubricants
but poor in the lighter
fractions.
It has yet to be decided,
once the necessary fossil evi-
dence for so doing is available,
whether the oil already dis-
covered originates in the
Narrabeens (Triassic) or has
migrated from the deeper
Marine series of the lower
Permians that underlie them.
There is substantial evidence,
both in the bore and region-
ally, that the main source-beds
lie deeper, so that sinking into
the Permian Marines is now
a “must” for the next stage of
the prospecting. As the “slicks”
are invariably accompanied by
copious amounts of gas, asso-
ciated or “trapped” gas with
deeper oil is quite a possibility.
The very interesting Cen-
tral Coast section of the State
has been long neglected—in
spite of the surface oil/gas
evidence apparent —but when
the scheduled programme of
John Strevens Enterprises is
completed much more data on
the oil/gas potential will have
been accumulated. This
involves («) the deepening of
the present “slim-hole” at
Terrigal from 836 ft. (its present
depth) to plus- 4000ft., thereby
penetrating the remainder of
the -Narrabeen and the core-
measures to reach the objec-
tive well into the Permian


General Motors
Aeceptanee Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED LOAN STOCK
Principal and interest unconditionally guaranteed by
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York.
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
PER ANNUM
6,10,15 YEARS
£lOO or any multiple thereof may he invested in any or all of the currencies—
-3 Years, 6 Years, 10 Years, 15 Years. GMAC, Australia has the right to
repay earlier. Conditions of repayment, including premiums, are set out
in the prospectus. Copies of the full prospectus arid forms of applica-
tion may be obtained from:
BRANCHES OF COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK' OF AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
MEMBERS- OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
Underwritten by Brokers to the Issue,
The Anglo Australian Corporation Pty. Ltd., lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Sydney. Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra.
Applications for Loan Stock will proceed only on one of the forms of application referred
to and attached to a printed copy of the prospectus .
Upper Marines ; ( b ) the drill-
ing of eight exploratory “slim-
holes” coastwise for correlation
with Terrigal No. 1 as to
stratigraphy and fluid con-
tents ; (c) geodynamic surveys
from Port Jackson to Port
Stephens for determining oil-
haloes, gas-microseepages, con-
tent of gas-loving bacteria in
soil and radio-active mineral-
isation (these surveys will be
under the direction of Profes-
sor S. J. Pirson, Professor of
Petroleum Engineering at the
University of Texas, who is a
world authority on this sub-
ject) ; (d) an aero-magnetic
survey of a section of the coast
offshore.
American interests are
closely watching the develop-
ments which, if further en-
couraging results are obtained,
could lead to the formation of
an adequately financed Aus-
tralian-American organisation
for the all-out exploitation of
the region with the emphasis
“offshore.”
The Playfairs of Sydney
TX7hen Thomas Playfair took
his discharge from the
Royal Navy 100 years ago and,
at the age of 27, set-up as a
butcher in Sydney, he had
behind him 15 years’ service
and what he described as “the
grand education of life aboard
a man-o'-war.”
And now (on April 3) a
special service at the Garrison
Church, opposite his old home,
has paid striking tribute to-him.
The service—held to con-
secrate the church doors given
by his descendants in memory
of “Thomas Playfair. M.L.A.,
Mayor of Sydney, 1885, who
worshipped here ... to re-
member him in gratitude as the
original architect of all their
good fortune” —was attended
by the Governor of N. S.
Wales, members of Parliament,
and other leading citizens.
The attendance was repre-
sentative of both city and
country, and —what would
certainly have specially pleased
Thomas Playfair—it included
old employees of the closely-
knit family-concern which he
founded, and even one or two
who, as children, had known
Plavfair himself back in the
1880’s.
Successful in business and in
municipal affairs, he was at
heart a simple man, but his
record also shows a force
of character, to which Sydney
still owes a debt or two. Not
only Sydney, either —the firm
Thomas Playfair Pty., Ltd.,
which grew from his original
venture, is now, of course,
notably well-known through-
out Australia.
The R.A.S. of N. S. Wales
could take-up the tale here and
tell what succeeding genera-
tions of the family have done
on its behalf; so could the
Army, in two wars and in
peace; so could legislature, or
the beef-cattle industry; or
the A.J.C.—in fact, just about
everywhere the name can be
found associated with some
significant part in the affairs of
the Commonwealth.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY
Matrimonial Caitses JuuisßrCTioK.
No. M.C. 13 of 196®
BETWEEN LI OWIO ANTON BITTER-
MANN Petitioner AND SUSANNE
LEA BITTERMANN Respondent.
TO SUSANNE LEA BITTERMANN
formerly of 9 Boroni* Drive, O'Cormor
Canberra in the Australian Capital
Terri tor v.—TAKE NOTICE that the said
LUDWIG ANTON BIT TERM ANN has
commenced a suit against you in this
Honourable Court and is applying for
dissolution of his marriage oir the
grounds that you have without just
cause -or excuse wilfully deserted him
and without any such cause or excuse
left him continuously m> deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the
Office of the Registrar of this Honour-
able Court at Canberra within forty
days from the date hereof and in the
event of your not doing so within tire
time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner may proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding' A copy of the Peti-
tion filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the nmh vsigwd free of charge.
Dated tin's fourth dav of April, 1960.
DAVIES, BAILEY ' & CATER, Soli-
citors for the Petitioner, Melbourne
Buildings, London Circuit, City, Can-
berra, Australian Capital Territory.
M. S. C. JOHNSTON, Deputy Registrar.
A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Vintage Wines
N S.W; DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. P.TY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Lady and the Fool”
Charles Mackerras included
in last week’s Town Hall con-
cert with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra the suite from his
ballet “The Lady and the Fool”
—a smooth-flowing arrange-
ment of a number of melodious
airs from some of Verdi’s least-
known operas, among them “II
Finto Stanislao,” “A 11 i 1 a,”
“Alzira,” “Jerusalem,” and
“Joan of Arc,” as well as “Don
Carlos,” “Ernani” and “Sicilian
Vespers.”
It is an excellent selection
from the standpoint of rhythm,
which is heavily accented in the
grotesqueries of the Dance of
the Clown section, the Taran-
tella and the Galop, but rather
more subdued in the love-music
of the Pas de Deux. If the
visual quality of this ballet
matches the musical part—
which was given a neat and
virile .reading—it should be as
attractive as “Pineapple Poll,”
another Mackerras arrange-
ment of rhythm-studded melo-
dies.
The suite was preceded by
the overture to Rossini’s “Semi-
ramide,” notable for the well-
judged volume-control and fine
tone of the French horns, which
enjoy here a rare chance for
extensive work; and Raymond
Hanson's Concerto for Trumpet
and Orchestra, in which John
Robertson was soloist. This
one-movement piece was obvi-
ously written for the express
purpose of testing the trum-
peter's virtuoso powers, and it
certainly puts a terrific strain
on his respiratory system
(though hardly more terrific
than the strain it puts on the
audience).
The symphony was Beetho-
ven's Fifth, in which the
struggle between man and Fate
was given its rageful dues. The
alternations of hope and despair
got no more than routine ex-
pression; but the forthright
statement of the final triumph
of the soul of man as he hurls
out his defiance, especially in
the upward sweep of the violins
leading into the final joyous
march, was music-making of
extraordinary vigor and disci-
pline.
❖ *> <*
Malko and Entremont
Young French pianist
Philippe Entremont, in his
playing of Mozart’s Concerto
No. 20 in D Minor, with the
Sydney Orchestra under Nico-
lai Malko last week, piled-
up plenty of evidence that
he is not only a technician of
the highest order but an inter-
preter of maturity well beyond
his 26 years. He made it plain,
too, that he is one with those
who believe that Mozart’s
music, far from being merely
surface classicism, can reflect
deepest emotion.
Certainly he extracted dra-
matic power not only where it
could perhaps be expected—in
the end allegros-— but where it
is surprisingly inserted: in the
slow middle-section, right on
the heels of one of the loveliest
and gentlest airs the composer
ever wrought. Entremont
made these brief intervening
pages a veritable whirlwind of
passion, the thundering
exordium in the left hand as
potent as anything he had got
from Beethoven’s monumental
Fourth a few nights previously.
He did, in fact, elevate this
concerto to where it rightfully
belongs—four-square with the
best of Beethoven. And he
was given handsome collabora-
tion by Malko and his forces.
The full orchestra was used
in two other works: Stra-
vinsky’s Symphony in Three
Movements and Tschaikow-
sky’s Theme and Variations
from Suite No. 3 in G. The
Tschaikowsky was notable for
excellent all-round work by
the woodwinds, the melting
tone of Kathryn Schramm’s
English-horn in the eighth
variation and Ernest Llewel-
lyn’s fine-spun violin-solo in
the tenth. Crisp work by the
tntti orchestra also gave punch
to the bright harmonies and
engaging melodies of this sun-
lit work.
Malko conducted from the
cembalo the second of Bach's
Brandenburg Concertos, with
an orchestra of strings and four
soloists: Ernest Llewellyn
(violin), Neville Amadio (flute),
Claire Fox (oboe) and John
Robertson (trumpet). In a
reading of spark and verve the
only thing out of balance was
the overstrong voice- of the
trumpet in the opening allegro.
* * *
“Juno and the Paycock”
Rarely has the present
reviewer been so enchanted by
the theatre as when he paid a
visit to the Melbourne Union
the other night for the Tin
Alley Players’ production of
this early piece by Sean
O’Casey. In the capable hands
of Margaret Hetherington, this
was a production to put many
a more obviously “profes-
sional” job to shame.
However, it was by no
means without its faults. Fore-
most among these was a cer-
tain confusion among the cast
as to the exact approach to
their roles—whether to plug for
realistic characterisation, broad
comic-relief or universal “type”
acting.
Heaven knows, O’Casey’s
attitudes are elusive enough as
it is, with his peculiar mingling
of tragedy and comedy, his
apparently divided loyalties,
his paradoxical mixture of
scepticism and passionate
idealism.
Nonetheless, the basic pro-
positions shone through clearly
enough. As O’Casey sees it,
his poor Irish have two crosses
to bear —poverty and their
egocentric perversity. The
greater of these by far, he
demonstrates again and again,
is the perversity—those fatal
flaws which find their expres-
sion in the lovable but funda-
mentally parasitic ratbaggery of
“Joxer” Daly ; Captain Boyle’s
talent for loafing and taste for
alcohol; Mary’s grim, hus-
bandless pregnancy ; and
Johnny Boyle's betrayal of a
fellow-revolutionary.
Quite clear also was


»0
m tj <m
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
' ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and A. Mcwilliams,
O’Connell Sts., Manager
Sydney.
Public Notice
Lake view and star
LIMITED
\
(Incorporated in England)
Interim Dividend No. 90
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
that the Directors have declared
an INTERIM DIVIDEND in
respect of the year ending June 30,
1960, of ONE SHILLING sterling
per share, less United Kingdom
Income Tax at SEVEN SHILLINGS
AND NINEPENCE in the £
payable May 27, 1960.
The Transfer Books will be
closed from April 22 to 25, both
days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the
Dividend will be calculated at the
rate of Exchange ruling on April
21, 1960.
Net Dividend payable to non-
resident Shareholders entitled to
United Kingdom tax exemption is
ELEVEN DECIMAL POINT
EIGHT TWO PENCE sterling per
share, which applies to all exemp-
tion authorities received for
Dividend.
For
LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
R. J. AGNEW,
Attorney.
FIMISTON, W.A.
April 8, 1960.
O’Casey’s belief that the more
worth-while aims of the revo-
lutionaries would remain frus-
trated so long as they failed to
rid themselves of their own
psychological inconsistencies.
In other words, the problem is
personal rather than political,
as the grief-stricken Mrs. Tan-
cred and the similarly afflicted
Juno (Mrs. Boyle) both seem
to realise in their significantly
identical speeches: “.... . take
away our hearts of stone and
give us hearts of flesh... . take
away this murdherin’ hate and
give u 5.... .eternal love.”
Apart from a lamentably flat
final scene, the quality of the
acting, right down to the
furniture-removal men, was on
a high level for an amateur
production. Three perform-
ances linger most strongly in
the memory—Keith Macart-
ney’s “Joxer,” Edward Cordell’s
Captain Jack Boyle (the Pay-
cock) and Murielle Hearne’s
Juno.
A. S. J.
❖ ❖ ❖
Janacek Quartet
At their Sydney Conserva-
torium concert last week this
Czech ensemble featured two
classics and two moderns,
the latter including the
Adagio for String Quartet by
17-year-old Sydney composer
Robert Cuckson.
This piece, of recent vintage,
started on some promisingly
original material, with the writ-
ing in a difficult medium quite
technically secure. Later, how-
ever, the composition tended to
wander from the original con-
cept, becoming rather too ex-
pansive. But, despite the need
for disciplinary editing, the
work does point to a fine
promise for more mature
excursions into this genre.
The other contemporary work
was Shostakovich’s Fourth
Quartet, which emotes at con-
siderable voltage before
settling-down to some hum-
drum subject-matter which be-
comes more obfuscated as it
progresses. Still, the first sec-
tion contains good themes de-
veloped with considerable skill,
and here the four players were
most authoritative.
Classicism came in Haydn’s
“Lark” Quartet in D Major,
of which the lyrical slow move-
ment and the gravely paced
minuet were played with affec-
tion—the former with rich
expression as well.
Eva Bernathova joined the
quartet for a spirited, forth-
right performance of Brahms’s
big Piano Quintet in F Major,
the final section of which be-
came, however, a little ragged.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Journalists’ Club Award
The president of the
Journalists’ Club (Sydney),
Kenneth Slessor, has an-
nounced the winners of the
Journalists’ Club Award for
1959 —a £5OO prize for the
best Australian-written tele-
vision-play.
The judges, being unable to
separate two of the entries,
awarded £250 each to Phillip
Mann, of Chatswood (N.S.W.),
for “The Sergeant from Lone
Pine”; and J. V. Warner, of
Modbury (S.A.), for “World
Without End.”
The judges, representing each
of the three Sydney TV-
stations, were Raymond Men-
muir (ABN), Peter Benardos
(TCN) and Brett Porter (ATN).
Films
“Can-can”
Drollery is the keynote of
this adaptation of Abe
Burrows’s stage-play, set in the
Paris of the mid-’nineties,
about the love-affairs of a
young lady of liberal moral
views whose chief preoccupa-
tion —after her amours, of
course —is that of keeping
police-agents out of her cafe
while the customers are being
regaled with performances of
the can-can, which (strange as
it may seem) was illegal in those
days.
Filmed in Todd AO, it is a
richly-caparisoned production,
leisurely paced yet never
dragging, with dialogue of
sophistication and some wit,
oodles of high-kicking legs and
miles of fast-swirling skirts,
garters of wondrous ornamen-
tation, and a performance of
engaging verve and humor
from Shirley MacLaine, who,
as a comedienne, has improved
out of sight since she modestly
appeared in “Around the
World.”
The dancing sequences are
first-rate, topped by a spectacu-
lar apache-dance in which five
men sling Miss MacLaine about
the floorscape with pleasing
abandon. The Seine, the
boulevards and the odd little
corners of Paris come up hand-
somely in attractive colors,
with interior sets to match.
Frank Sinatra, as Miss Mac-
Laine’s carefree barrister-boy-
friend who regards marriage
as almost immoral, is much
more" impressive than he has
been in his recent lairy roles;
his singing, to'o, is relaxed.
Maurice Chevalier bends his
best personality delightfully to
the role of a chief magistrate
who is not averse to having a
sly gink at the prohibited leg-
flinging outside of business-
hours.
At Sydney Paris.
❖ ❖ ❖
“A Touch of Larceny”
Many delightful touches in-
vest this unpretentious British
comedy, in which a celebrated
wartime submarine-skipper
(James Mason), bored with his
seat-pdlishing job in Whitehall,
gets the idea for a spoof—he’ll
go on a spot of leave sailing
among the uninhabited small
islands off the Scottish coast
after leaving behind various
bits of evidence which might
make it seem he has shot-
through behind the Iron Cur-
tain with a top-secret docu-*
ment; and then he’ll return and
collect a handsome wad in
libel actions from the news-
papers which have leapt to con-
clusions.
You know, of course, that
he’ll never sue; for the girl he
is after (Vera Miles) is in the
know, anyway, and he doesn't
want to make her an accessory
if things go wrong. But it’s all
good fun, especially that pro-
jected at the expense of George
Sanders, who is suitably snooty
as a high-minded diplomat try-
ing to protect his fiancee (Miss
Miles) from the low-minded
sub.-fellow.
Officialdom takes a few
gentle side-swipes, and among
the supporting cast is a neat
piece of work by Shakspearian
actor Harry Andrews as a
stern but understanding naval
top-ranker.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
Artbursts
Minor Paintings
Though it gallantly got it-
self opened this year by
Maurice Chevalier (who tact-
fully said that he understood
his friend Picasso’s work only
up till his “blue” period) the
Australian Art Society’s exhi-
bition at David Jones’ (Sydney)
is the usual collection of
minor paintings; many that
would be pleasant enough to
see in somebody’s home, few
of the stature to exhibit in
this large city.
Here and there, as in two
watercolors by Claudia
Forbes-Woodgate or in Barry
Chamberlain’s little oil of the
beach on a hot day, there is
a touch of freshness. Molly
Johnson’s oils are lightly
attractive, as are Deirdre Gem-
mell’s “Fossicking” and the
watercolors by Lionel Taprell,
Lilie Lowe and Frederic Bates.
*> ♦♦♦
Charles Wheeler
It is surprising the number
of painters who trip round the
world, setting-up their easels
in all manner of places, then
come home and hold an ex-
hibition which, save for the
titles and perhaps a few easily
recognisable tourist “attrac-
tions,” gives hardly an indica-
tion that the artist had wan-
dered further than his own


The smartest homes in Australia
feature the low-pitched roofiine
• « e
W<jms
A
RN.
mmm
«3sSS
Ww
r-
%
& s
!>rw*» w,w<
H
* ~
’< * >
* X *
» 4»&*
aa..>.
' / '’*■■ v 7/,
• \l 4 i
w'v *v t ,' «y
a' I ' Vi 1 V'M!,F
>' >1 \y A /At/ v .
v'-*—:. 11/f YY
V V »•*
•••■.,
. ■...« "•■
w
-„ ; ' Z'jgk ' ' /
"t *&'- :<>U' ' jJ
- -
BUTTiHFLY
LOW GA&Lg
SKILUON
BBBB
FLAT
Lower building costs and higher resale value are
assured when you "specify a low-pitched roof. . . and the
smartest low-pitched roofs are clad with Lysaght Steel
Sheet! Smartest, because Lysaght Steel Sheet expresses
the modern functional trend in roof design so perfectly.
Easiest to fix, too saves many man-hours, whether
erected by skilled or unskilled labour.
Costs less per “square” to erect and far more durable
because Lysaght Steel Sheet is Red Orb quality, made
specially tough for roofing purposes.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney • Newcastle • Melbourne • Brisbane « Adelaide . Fremantle
Send for your free copy of the
new 1960 Lysaght home plans
booklet, containing floor plan of
the home above plus many other
original designs.
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Port Line Building, 50 Young Street, Sydney
Please send me, free and post free, your Home Plans
booklet entitled “The Lysaght Guide to Modern Home
Planning”.
NAME _
ADDRESS


INVEST WITH SAFETY
m
3 months 5%
6 months 5Vz%
9 months 6%
12 months 6Vk%
18 MONTHS AND OVER
%
DEPOSITS MAY BE WITHDRAWN ON
30 DAYS' NOTICE
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
SALES FINANCING OF FAMOUS PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY THE
dlasftitas(l)ecrm€j(jf*cup
FORD
CATERPILLAR
HYSTER
A.EX.
FORDSON
LANZ
JOHN DEERE
LISTER
• CIRCULAR NO. 5 dated 31/3/60 with audited balance
sheet as at 31/12/59 available from:
All Members of the Stock Exchange and all
branches of
HASTINGS DEERING
FINANCI * INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
William & Crown Streets, Sydney. Tel. FA 0322 (33 lines)
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Tel. 4-1481 (9 lines)
City Chambers, Alinga St., Canberra, A.C.T. Tel. J 4051
MAIL THIS COUPON ••
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.,
G.P.O. Box 4333, SYDNEY.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, full details of
your terms deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD659
Missing Friend
TO RAIMUND KOMIC formerly of Silk-
wood in the State of Quensland but now
of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife RITA KOMIC has com-
menced proceedings against you for a
divorce on the ground of desertion
during three years and upwards UN-
LESS you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court Melbourne on or before
the 23rd day of May 1960 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to
defend the said proceedings you must
file an answer in the said office on or
before the 3rd day of June 1960.
This advertisement is inserted by the
PUBLIC SOLICITOR, of 601 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
backyard. The palette-range
remains the same; light-effects,
atmosphere, the actual shapes
and shades of trees, houses,
people, etc., vary not a whit
from one place to another—as
if they were constant the world
over.
Happily, Charles Wheeler
(Melbourne Athenaeum) is not
one of these. When he ex-
plores the New Zealand land-
scape, for example, with its
peculiar atmosphere cora-
pounded of cool tones and clear
colors, the result is signifi-
cantly different from that when
his subject is a small Spanish
farm, all misty heat and vibrant
shadow, or a canal in Holland,
or the countryside of New
Guinea or Australia.
In short, Wheeler is a con-
scientious observer. It is only
when direct observations be-
come secondary and the literal
creeps into his work that it
begins to lose its charm and
vitality—when, for instance, he
drapes five stiffly academic
nudes around a romantically
tinted landscape and calls it
“So It Has Been Told.”
His portrait of M. J. Mac-
Nally is boldly and lucidly
stated; his figure - study of
“Linda,” with its painstaking
attention to irrelevant detail
and its forced pretty-pretty
quality, is by comparison dis-
appointing.
.❖ ❖ ❖
Turners from the Tate
The 16 Turners from the
Tate Gallery which were loaned
for the Adelaide Festival of
Arts will be on display at the
Art Gallery of N. S. Wales
from today (April 20) until
May 22. They are valued at
£500,000 and were painted after
1845, when Turner was 75.
❖ *i*
Prize for Sculpture
In 1961 a Special Blake Prize
competition for religious sculp-
ture is to be held at Mark
Foy’s, Sydney. A prize of 200-
guineas will be given. Closing-
date for entries will be 4 p.m.
on February 9, 1961. Winners
will be announced on Monday,
February 23. Entry - forms
from the secretary, Box 4484,
G.P.0., Sydney. One of the
rules is that the size of entries
is “limited to the capacity of
the goods-lift at Mark Foys.”
❖ * *
Posters
The Arts Council of Aus-
tralia and Qantas Airways
are running a travel-poster
competition: first-prize £5OO,
second £2OO. The judges will
be William Dobell, Douglas
Dundas, Erik Langker, Hal
Missingham and a Qantas man.
Details from the Arts Council,
163 Crown Street, East Sydney.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
lIS Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address
PATRICK &
“Rosdale” Sydney.
COMPANY
R. H. ALLEN M. R. E. DOWLING
P. R. LEVY A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911 (10 lines)
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Reichhold Chemical Industries
(Australia), Ltd.
TJ apid expansion financed by share-
issues and hefty ploughing-back of
profits have been the leading factors in
the development of this major industrial
concern since its debut on the Austra-
lian sharemarket almost seven years ago.
Shareholders have been well looked
after. The co. paid its 11| p.c. maiden
dividend in 1955 and has endeavored
to share its fortunes with the investors
ever since, although there has been some
give-and-take in the game, too.
In 1956 a 15 p.c. div.-cheque was paid-
out, but a slight fall in profits in the
next year saw the rate slide-down to
11 p.c. Last year the scripholders
received \2\ p.c., following on the heels
of an Ilf p.c. distribution in 1958.
Incorporated in August, 1953, the
Sydney-registered Reichhold Chemical In-
dustries, Ltd., manufactures synthetic
resins and oils and chemicals for a wide
range of industries, including brake-
linings, laminated foundry-castings, ply-
wood, moulding - compounds, paints,
plasticisers and chemical colors.
Factories are located in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Wellington and Auckland. The
group is affiliated with Reichhold Chemi-
cals, Inc., of U.S.A., one of'the world’s
largest manufacturers of synthetic
resins, which holds a minority interest
in the Australian concern. This gives
Reichhold access to valuable formulae,
production-techniques, licences and dis-
tribution rights, etc.
Last year Reichhold formed Cement
Chemicals (Aust.) Pty. to develop
chemical activities for concrete-produc-
tion. In New Zealand, Morcom, Green
and Edwards, Ltd. (manufacturer of
fungicides and paint and printing-ipk
drier), was acquired as a going concern,
considerably expanding the group’s in-
dustrial interests in Maoriland.
Rapid empire-building continued after
the balance-date. In November, 1959,
Reichhold acquired the whole of the
issued capital of Frank G. Spurway
(Holdings), Ltd. (electrical engineers), by
an exchange of shares.
Next month, Walter A. Cox Pty.,
manufacturer of chain-saws and portable
gasoline power-units and agent for a
number of overseas coucerns, was taken-
over. Once again purchase considera-
tion was satisfied by a share-exchange—
Reichhold’s favorite method of financing
takeovers.
The new subsidiary’s main overseas
connection is with J. W. and T. A. Smith,
London (manufacturers of chemical
colors), which Reichhold recently joined
in a joint venture to form Smith Reich-
hold (Aust.) Pty.
Early last March Reichhold announced
the takeover of Star Machinery Pty., a
general engineering, manufacturing and
merchandising co., specialising in pro-
ducing machinery and equipment for the
chemical industry, particularly the paint-
making and printing-ink trade, ball-
mills, mixing equipment of various kinds,
lidding- and filling-machines, storage-
tanks, etc.
The subsidiary also works for the
ceramic industry, and holds valuable
English licences. Its factory is located
at Alexandria, near Sydney.
Also in March, 1960, A. C. Hatrick
Pty., a fully-owned subsidiary, concluded
an agreement with Hercules Powder Co.,
U.S.A., to form a new jointly-owned
co., Hercules Powder Co. (Australia)
Pty., to provide resin derivatives and
other industrial chemicals for sale in
Australia and New Zealand.
Last term was described as “most
profitable” for the group. Consolidated
profit, before charging tax and deprecia-
tion, for the year ended June 30, 1959,
was £94,777 higher at £591.893.
Consolidated net profit increased by
£30,173 to £289,986, after writing-off
£111,165 for depreciation of fixed assets
(up £10,402), providing £185,742 for
taxation (up £49,202), and paying £5OOO
in divs. to outside pref. shareholders in
a subsidiary co.:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
June To Re-
-30, Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Intangibles written-off, £98,474 .. 22,584
1955.. 243,035 11J p.c.= 60.300 182,735 205,319
Add diff. between cost and par values
of shares acquired, £217,832 . . 423,151
1956.. 250,210 15 p.c. -105,456 144,754 567,905
Net revaluation of assets, £127,074 .. 694,979
Reserves capitalised, £351.521 . . 343,458
1957.. 240,349 11 p.c. =125,670 114,679 458,137
1958.. 254,813 11J „ „ 165,215 89,598 547,735
Acquisition costs subsidiary w 7 /off,
£2932 .. .. .. .. 544,803
Capital profit, £1209 .. .. .. 546,012
1959.. 289,986 124 p.c. =178,020 111,966 657,978
1 his was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 20.1 p.c. on the slightly higher average
ord. capital, compared with 18.1 p.c. in
the previous term, 21 p.c. in 1957 and
35.6 p.c. in 1956.
The div.-rate was raised from 11| p!c.
to a well-covered p.c., absorbing
£178,020. Reserves received £111,196
and benefited by £1209 capital profits,
but were reduced by £2932 acquisition
costs in a subsidiary written-off.
Total reserves and undistributed
profits amounted to £657,978 (free of
intangibles), supporting a paid capital of
£1,442,250 in 10s. ords. at balance-date.
The most important capital move to
June 30 last was the issue of 576,900
10s. 6| p.c. unsecured notes, one-for-five
at par. The notes are convertible into
ords., at par, on May 1, 1963, and
brought-in £291,575. A further 38,600
cohv. 10s. notes were issued to em-
ployees in September, 1959.
Bank accommodation was reduced by
£149,513 to £125,109. Book-value of
freeholds was £170,593 up at £1,043,494
and of plant £136,419 up at £914,014:
Reichhold Chemical Industries (Australia), Ltd.,
and Subsidiaries.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £1,404,194 £1,406,084 £1,442,250
Reserves . . . . 458,137 ' 547,735 657,978
Outside interests.. 100,000 100,p00 100,869
Mortgages .. 228,611 232,050 235,036
Conv. notes .. - 291,575
Overdraft . . 209,074 274,622 125,109
Creditors, tax pro-
vision .. .. 465,429 405,926 609,392
Final divs.* .. 70,168 90,380 92,640
£2,935,613 £3,056,797 £3,554,849
Freeholds .. 784,854 872,901 1,043,494
Plant .. .. 691,703 777,595 914,014
Shares other cos. 36,000 36,000 36.QQ0
Stocks .. .. 829,813 902,536 983,596
Debtors . . . . 526,998 429,647 545,237
Cash .. . . 66,245 38,118 27,928
Endowment policy ■ —- 4,580
£2,935,613 £3,056,797 £3,554,849
* Includes final (£2500), attributable to outside
shareholders.
Stocks increased by £81,060 to £983,596
and debtors rose by £115,590 to £545,237.
Working-capital amounted to £734,200.
Net tangible asset-backing worked out
at 14s. 7d. for each 10s. ord.
The shares issued to finance Reichhold’s
takeovers since June 30, 1959, lifted
paid-up capital by £422,000 to £1,864,250.
This is more than three times the co.’s
issued capital on its incorporation in
1955. Such a large jump in share-funds,
over a relatively short period of time,
could hardly have failed to depress the
co.’s earning-rates. Time is needed to
digest continuous capital-increases.
In fact, the rise in profits has not
matched the intensity of scrip-issues.
Although paid capital increased by 2.4
times from 1955 to balance-date, both
the profits and earning-rates showed a
markedly slower rate of growth over the
same period.
Consolidated profit rose from £243,035
in 1955 to £289,986 in 1959, but earning-
rates on the average ord. capital dropped
from 40.5 p.c. to 2Q.1 p.c.
However, it must be remembered that
the last five years were a period of heavy
capital investments and considerable out-
lays on researchj etc.
Another important factor has been
Reichhold’s close connection with the
Australian paint industry, which is now
slowly recovering from a recession that
had followed the earlier post-war boom.
The fortunes of Reichhold’s biggest
customer have undoubtedly braked the


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5711-2-3
406 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-3080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Lines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
growth in profits. Diversification
currently under way should eventually
render the group less dependent on the
frequent ups and downs of the paint
industry.
Current term’s trading results are said
to have been excellent. Prospects for
the future “are very favorable.”
The co.’s scrip is doing very well on
’Change. At the last sale in Sydney the
10s. ords. changed hands at 435. each.
The immediate return on the basis of
the increased 12| p.c. div.-rate is 2.9 p.c.
The 10s. conv. notes were not far behind
and fetched 395. 6d.
Mac. Robertson Miller Airlines, Ltd.
A lthough Nor’-west Australia, land of
tremendous but undeveloped poten-
tial, has long realised the importance of
air-transport, it is probable that the
arrival of Mac. Robertson Miller Air-
lines, Ltd.’s first prop-jet aircraft —a
Fokker Friendship flown direct from
Holland last December —marks the be-
ginning of a new era in air-transporta-
tion.
M.M.A. has a fleet, in addition to its
latest acquisition, of six DC3 aircraft
(including a freighter), one Dove and
one Anson.
As a result of a merger in 1955 when-,
the publicly-held Airlines (W.A.), Ltd.,
and the proprietary Mac. Robertson-
Miller Aviation Co. amalgamated their
interests, the present line covers an un-
duplicated network of 20,804 air-miles,
with 100 scheduled touchdowns, ranging
from Albany to Darwin. As a gesture
to the national interest (and with an
eye to the future), the co. accepts losses
on some one-way routes, although a
measure of Federal relief is received in
respect of outback services. Not least
important is the airline’s role as an
auxiliary to the Flying Doctor Service.
In emergency cases, flights are diverted
and special services provided to outlying
stations.
In the 12 months to September, 1959,
M.M.A. lifted gross income £31,397 to
£1,155,143. This slight improvement,
however, was more than offset, by in-
creased expenses. Largely in conse-
quence of heavier wage and salary com-
mitments, but augmented considerably by
costs of training personnel for Fokker
operation, gross expenditure rose £70,901
to £1,064,753. Unfortunately, revenue
from Government contracts yielded less
than in the previous year, but on the
whole, business continued buoyant, even
showing a slight upward trend. During
the year, M.M.A. carried 51,368 passen-
gers (46,579 in 1958), passing the 50,000-
mark for the first time. Freight handled
rose 350,0001 b. to 6,365,3741 b.; mails, on
the other hand, were 85001 b. lighter at
203,6691 b.
Consolidated pre-tax earnings slipped
£40,433 to £89,461. 'After tax, a hefty
£48,618 (down £11,192) and depreciation
£36,373 (down £21,933), net profit flipped
in, a much diminished £40,843 (down
£29,241). In his report, the chairman,
Mr. R. F. Rushton, draws attention to
the apparent over-provision for tax “the
excess amount beyond that required to
satisfy the liability for taxation on the
profit returned for the year is, in sub-
stance, accounted for by the Commis-
sioner requiring that tax be paid on
‘fares paid in advance’ and the dis-
allowance, for tax purposes, of ‘accrued
holiday pay’ provisions”:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June Profit. —Dividend N serves. serves.
SO. £ £ £ £
Tax overprovided, £2l .. .. .. 1,326
1956.. 38,023 p.c. = 35,712 2,311 3,637
Sept. 30,
Capital profit, £4291 .. .. 7,928
1957*. 62,357 71 p.c. = 35,712 26,645 34,573
Preliminary expenses w/off, £lO,lBO 24,393
Capital profit, £1770 .. .. .-. 26,163
1958.. 70,084 7J p.c. - 35,712 34,372 60,535
Capital profit, £30,233 .. .. 90,768
1959.. 40,843 "71 p.c.= 35,712 5,131 95,899
* 15 months to Sept. 30, 1957.
Just clear of the p.c. div.-rate —divs.
have been held steady at p.c. since
the co.’s inception, profit levels-out a
visible 8.6 p.c. on paid Capital as against
14.7 p.c. and 13.1 p.c. in the two pre-
ceding years. Reserves, despite the slen-
der margin, rose £35,364 to £95,899. sales
of aircraft surplus to the co.’s require-
ments, £30,233, making up most of the
leeway.
M.M.A.’s balance-sheet shows the co.
to be operating well within its means:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Sept. 30, Sept. 30, Sept. 30,
-1957. 1958. 1959.
Share 'capital .. £476,157 £476,157 £476,157
Reserves . . .. 24,393 60,535 95,899
SfS, sl « :: >B3B} ««
£670,412 £731,901 £772,076
Freeholds and lease-
holds . . . . 143,023 150,242 155,412
Aircraft and acces-
sories . . . . 142,409 ]
Plant and equip- }- 188,423 170,973
rnent .. .. 72,526 J
Shares in Air Beef
Pty 6,500 6,500 6,500
Stocks .. .. 75,625 71,997 73 113
Debtors .. .. 115,171 130,498 152,225
Cash, bonds .. 115,158 184,241 213,853
£670,412 £731,901 £772,076
Cash and bonds total £213,853, a rise
of £29,612. Debtors are up £21,727 at
£152,225. Valued at £170,973 (down
£17,450) aircraft and appurtenances
(spare engines, etc.) are included at cost-
/pss-depreciation. Freeholds and lease-
holds, £155,412 (up £5170), are shown at
cost, less depreciation on certain build-
ings.
Freight-revenue figures largely in con-
solidated income, with beef providing
the major payload. The DC3 freighter
is based on Glenroy, in the Kimberleys,
where the pioneering affiliate, Air Beef
Pty. operates a snap-freezing and pre-
packaging works. With the long trek
to the coastal killing centre obviated, a
reduction of two years in the marketable
age of beef has been made possible,
giving cattle-running in the north-west a
new slant. Last year, the eleventh air-
beef season at Glenroy, M.M.A. carried
1,685,1361 b. of meat and offal to Derby
and 674,7321 b. of stores and supplies,
backloading from Derby to Glenroy and
surrounding stations. In aggregate, this
betters the 1958 performance by almost
300,0001 b.
Links with southern facilities are also
provided for the whaling and banana
industries at Carnarvon, the asbestos
project at Wittenoom and the B.H.P.
iron-ore leases at Yampi Sound, to men-
tion the more important developments
in this area. Then, too, there are the
dollar-earning pearl- and cray-fisheries at
Broome and Geraldton respectively, as
well as a large-scale rice-culture scheme
at Liveringa.
Immense sums of money have been
poured into West Australian oil-search
over the past eight years, and M.M.A.
is co-operating closely with interests con-
cerned, carrying-out geophysical-survey
flights in addition to routine transporta-
tion. Discovery of oil in commercial
quantities would broaden the co.’s
purview enormously.
Already M.M.A. sees need for further
aircraft of the Friendship class. The
prop-jet effects considerable economies
in flying time, economies which, now
that initial expenses, training-costs, etc.,
have been absorbed, should bear fruit
in the current term. Where for instance,
the piston-powered DC3 took 46 hours
to complete a return journey from Perth
to Darwin and back, the Fokker takes
only 22.
Fetching 11s. on Perth ’Change, the
co.’s 10s shares give an immediate yield
of 6.8 p.c. Net tangible asset backing
is visibly 12s. Od.
Ford Sherington Holdings, Ltd.
TJopeful investors who had put their
trust in this little-known but sturdy
stock were recently rewarded by a one-
for-two bonus handout. The co., tradi-
tionally reserved and conservative in its
formal accounts, has also spilled some
beans from its inner kitty.
In addition to a £50,000 revaluation
of its shareholding in the operating sub-
sidiary, Ford Sherington, Ltd., the co.
pulled-out £37,000 from the inner “stock-
reserve account” and another £6500 out
of “surplus tax-provisions from earlier
years.”
This, accompanied by a welcome divi-
dend increase, met with a favorable reac-
tion on the sharemarket. The ss. ords.
were last valued at 10s 9d. each, much
the same as this time last year, in spite
of the 50 p.c. bonus-increase in Ford


INVITATION TO INVESTORS
MwKlbi
Australian
Capital Fund
■ INCORPORATED
Incorporated in Victoria on 4th March, 1960
Issue of 1,000,000 Shares at 10'-
per Share (inclusive of service fee)
Second Australian Capital Fund Incorporated* has been established to
provide opportunity for financial interest in leading public companies
engaged in the expanding industries of Australia. A primary point of the
Fund’s policy will be to secure investments having the best prospects
for CAPITAL GROWTH.
Shares in the Fund may be readily sold for cash at current market
price at any time.
DIRECTORS:
W. lan Potter (Principal Partner in the firm of lan Potter A Co.)
H. F. Clarke (General Manager, The Commercial Bank of Aust. Ltd.)
J. T. Campbell (Former General Manager of National Mutual Life
Association of Australasia Ltd.)
J. M. Rodd (Solicitor) '
Sir Arthur Smithers, C.B.E. (Former Director of Finance of the Stale
of Victoria)
Investment Consultants to the Fund
lAN POTTER & CO.
Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
applications must be made on the Form provided in printed
copies of the Prospectus, which may be obtained from:
The Commercial Bank of Australia Ltd.
Members of recognised Stock Exchanges.
Investors Services Pty. Ltd.
For the convenience of Investors, an order form for the
Prospectus is provided below.
*The Fund follows the successful pattern
of Mutual Funds in the United States and
Canada. Under specialised management, it
provides an opportunity for widespread interest
in the financial buoyancy of the country through
a single investment.
Share Registers in Melbourne and Canberra.
INVESTORS SERVICES PTY. LTD.
Box 853, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, without obligation, your free Prospectus
on Second Australian Capital Fund Incorporated.
SfCOHD
C htW
SECOND
It
AUSTRALIAN
CAPITAL FUND
INCORPORATED
Sherington’s scrip. Share-
holders who participated in last
October’s gift distribution (see
The Bulletin, 14/10/’59)
have made a 50 p.c. capital
profit to date.
Incorporated in N.S.W. in
1947, and converted to public
status in 1950, Ford Shering-
ton Holdings, Ltd., is a hold-
ing-co. in travel-goods manu-
facturers, with interests spread-
ing to South Africa.
A subsidiary operates a fac-
tory at Port Elizabeth, and
holds sales-agencies in other
big centres of the Union. ,
On the domestic market the
co.’s best-known products are
traded under the Fordite, Regal
and Globite labels and enjoy a
solid reputation among cus-
tomers. There are factories
and sales-offices in Sydney and
in all State capitals except
Hobart. Australian business
is the main source of revenue.
Last year’s financial results
were “considered to be satisfac-
tory.” This pronouncement
was couched in Ford Shering-
ton’s customary conservative
terminology, but the profits
were, in fact, the best yet
earned. Turnover was said to
have been higher but operating
costs had also increased.
As usual, no adjustment was
made in the balance-sheet for
the premium on exchange
between Australia and South
Africa, whose pound is worth
255. Australian. Judging from
the lower exchange premium in
the revenue account, the divi-
dend from the co.’s South
African offshoot was smaller
than in the previous term.
Consolidated net profit for
the year ended June 30, 1959,
was £8221 higher at £33,116:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
c Dividends —Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. < Ord. ——>, serves.*
8 p.c,
£ & p.c. £ £
’53..27,512 3644 10 = 10,000 164,685
Exchange premium, £491 .. 165,126
Tax overprovided, £26 .. 165,152
’54..32,031 3644 10 = 10,000 183,539
Exchange premium, £613 . . 184,152
Tax overprovided, £l2B . . 184,280
’55. .32,948 3644 10 = 10,000 203,584
Profit sale bonds, £79 . . 203,663
Exchange premium, £1962, 205,625
’56. .24,796 3644 10 = 10,000'216,777
Exchange premium, £613 . . 217,390
Tax overprovided, £5OOO .. 222,390
’57. .24,490 3644 10 = 10,000 233,236
Exchange premium, £1962.. 235,198
Revaluation assets, £104,420 339,618
’5B. .24,895 3644 10 = 10,000 350,868
Exchange premium, £613. . 351,481
Asset revaluation, £50,000 401,481
Tax overprovided, £6500. . 407,981
From inner stock reserve,
£37,000 444,981
’59.. 33,116 3644 = 12,500 461,953
* Subject to intangibles, £125,000 at
30/6/59, and including £25,000 plant
replacement reserve.
This was after providing
£23,968 for taxation (up £818),
paying £BOO directors’ fees and
writing-off £5230 for deprecia-
tion (down £353).
After satisfying the un-
changed pref.-div. requirements
(£3644) the consolidated net
profit' was equivalent to an
earning-rate of 29.5 p.c. on the
average ord. capital, compared
with 21.3 p.c. in the previous
year.
The ord. div.-rate was raised
from 10 p.c., uninterrupted
since the first maiden div.-
cheque, to 12 \ p.c., absorbing
£12,500. Reserves benefited by
£16,972, and also by £613 ex-
change premiums, £50,000
asset-revaluation, £6500 surplus
tax-provisions over past years
and £37,000 taken-out from a
hitherto undisclosed kitty,
described as “stock-reserve
account.”
The co.’s current tax-pro-
vision is a bit peculiar. It is
only slightly higher than in the
previous term and dispropor-
tionate to the earnings


Profit Participation
SHARE INVESTMENTS THROUGH
REG. SHARE BROKERS
The Investment Advisory Bureau has reopened its
list for subscribers. Due to the overwhelming demand for
membership we have granted an extension of this sub-
scription until the end of June, 1960. You all will be
notified of OUR VITAL INFORMATION relative to
your future investment on receipt of your cheque.
Memberships will be registered in order of their application
to this office. The outstanding success of the Bureau has
been confirmed by the many clients who have written to
us expresing their deep appreciation of the service we have
rendered. Your immediate attention to this matter will
enable you to enjoy a greater income through the sound
advice given by the Bureau concerning your investments.
We have as yet not forecast one stock that has not risen.
Please fill in the subscription coupon below. You will be
notified from time to time.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Investment Advisory Bureau,
Suite 19,
377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Cl. Victoria.
Please find enclosed my cheque /money order
for £5/5/- for 12 months’ subscription.
Name ...... ............... s .
Address . 8.1.
Please transact business of share buying or selling with your
own sharebroker.
36ia.
iritHlilftlTllUrlimufCj
f: '
'A;
s
X
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pehsive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
disclosed. Taking it as a guide,
the “true” earning-rate would
be nearer to 36 p.c. than 29.5
p.c.
This would be very close to
the previous term’s “true” rate,
calculated on a similar basis
(35 p.c.), suggesting there was
much less variation between the
1958 and 1959 earning-rates
than indicated by the formal
figures.
Revaluation of the holding
in the co.’s operating subsidi-
ary pushed-up the intangibles
by £50,000 to £125,000, against
£461,953 total reserves and un-
distributed profits, including
£25,000 reserve for replace-
ment of plant and machinery,
which is no longer treated as a
provision.
This supported a paid capital
of £45,550 8 p.c. 20s. cum.
prefs. plus £lOO,OOO in ss. ords.,
all f.-p., at June 30, 1959.
Except for the £30,140 in-
crease in stock and £32,061 rise
in cash, bonds, etc., the balance-
sheet did not change much.
Liquidity was satisfactory and
working-capital ample.
Net tangible asset-backing
worked out at £1 os. 9d. for
each ord. on the consolidated
accounts:
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
£ £ £
Pref. .. 45,550 45,550 45,550
Ord. .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Reserves .. 283,235 350,868 461,953
Mortgage .. 15,979 14,602 12,847
Creditors . . 46,352 47,096 53,497
Tax provision 29,553 27,851 24,518
Final divs. .. 6,822 6,822 9,322
£477,491 592,789 707,687
Land, build-
ings .. 154,614 280,634 280,093
Plant, etc. .. 40,533 38,004 40,361
Stock . . 110,984 82,034 112,174
Debtors . . 34,274 38,356 39,237
Cash, bonds., 62,086 78,761 110,822
Intangibles . . 75,000 75,000 125,000
£477,491 592,789 707,687
The one-for-two bonus-issue
in October, 1959, lifted the ord.
capital by £50,000 to £150,000.
Total paid-up capital is now
£195,550.
Future prospects look fair at
this stage, but the relaxation of
import-controls has increased
the competition from overseas
products on the domestic
markets.
The co. also warns of steadily
rising operating costs. Last
week’s Federal basic-wage
judgment, refusing to increase
the wage-rates, may help to
slow-down cost-increases.
Recent violence and continu-
ing tension in South Africa
may well have an adverse effect
on profits from that source, but
this is only a marginal con-
sideration. However, in the
long-run, African labor-costs
can be expected to develop a
consistent upward tendency, as
native living-standards gradu-
ally improve.
With these qualifications in
mind, Ford Sherington’s scrip
seems to be a reasonable in
vestment. The immediate re-
turn on the basis of the new
12| p.c. div.-rate is 4.6 p.c.
Enterprise of New Guinea
Oil- and gold-prospector,
Enterprise of New Guinea
Gold and Petroleum, N.L., is
seeking additional share-capital
to be able to take up its new
conditional oil-search permit
No.' 29.
The permit-area extends
along the north coast of New
Guinea for about 100 miles,
from the vicinity of Wewak to
the border of Dutch New
Guinea. It covers the whole
of the sedimentary basin be-
tween the coast and the east-
west running ranges of the
Torricelli and Bewani Moun-
tains, an area of about 3600
sq.-miles.
The sediments present range
in age from Eocene (Lower
Tertiary) to Pleistocene, and
their total thickness is about
3 5-40,000 ft.
On the whole the new per-
mit-area “seems to have ample
oil potentialities and the
chances of finding oil in com-
mercial quantities are regarded
as good.” However, a lot of
geological and geophysical
work will have to be done
before a drilling-site can be
selected.
The oil-permit is conditional
on the co. possessing sufficient
funds, providing itself with a
set of aerial photographs of
suitable scale of the permit-
area, making a general geolo-
gical regional survey, and also
a detailed geological survey of
one or more structures in the
permit-area.
To finance the proposed
undertaking the co. offered to
the shareholders its unissued
shares at 9d. for each Is. unit,
to be classed as fully-paid on
taking-up. Early in March the
co. reported that “the response
to the co.’s issue of reserve
shares has been gratifying.”
However, subscriptions were
as yet “insufficient” to acquire
the permit permanently and
the time of the offer was
extended to March 26, 1960.
At August 31, 1959, paid-up
capital amounted to £239,299,
in 4,785,979 f.-p. Is. ords.
Authorised capital was
£500,000.
Sundry debtors, cash, and
other liquid assets amounted
to £5519 plus £319 stores-on-
hand. Various mining and
drilling equipment, two survey
vessels, etc., were valued at
£40,219 (at cost).
Total sundry creditors and
claimants amounted to £3158.
In the absence of a current
oil-permit during the year
ended August 31, 1959, actual
work in New Guinea was
limited to the development of
gold-lease No. 13 near Wau.
During last term 800 tons of
ore were treated for a yield
of 618 oz. of gold-bullion. In
addition 106 oz. were
recovered from alluvial work-
ings.. Profit from mine-work-
ing amounted to £3B.
Net expenses of exploration
amounted to £2069 (geological
survey) and £16,027 (petroleum
survey).
No trading in scrip was
noted.


Made in the U.S.A.
KENT
FILTERS BEST
UM
23?
%
C,
M/cnomrt */</+
gSSS
[ REGULAR • KING SIZE • CRUSH-PROOF BOX
TAKEOVERS AND THRIFT
T\iscussing the takeover
epidemic at the annual
meeting in London of Barclay’s
Bank earlier this year, chairman
Anthony Tuke said, “I think it
is going too far when bid is
followed by counter-bid and
revised bid, till the price eventu-
ally seems much higher than
present facts and future pros-
pects really warrant. I draw a
distinction between the amal-
gamation of two or more
identical or kindred businesses
and the grouping of two or
more completely dissimilar
businesses, which is not neces-
sarily wrong but requires closer
investigation.
“It was the Walrus in his
famous address to the Oysters
who linked together shoes and
ships and sealing-wax and
cabbages and kings. I have
always regarded this as a piece
of amiable nonsense, but, if I
had only recognised it, the
Walrus seems to have been an
early apostle of the modern
doctrine of diversification,
which has many most respect-
able adherents nowadays.
“I must not appear to deny
the right of the investor to get
the highest available price for
his shares, if he wants to sell
them. It should, however, be
remembered that he derives
considerable fiscal and other
advantages by being enabled
to employ his money in a com-
pany which operates on the
principles of limited liability,
and it is not unreasonable that
he be asked to recognise that
there may also be limits to his
right to consider solely his own
interests in the farming of his
estate, if I may so describe it.
It is only necessary to consider
the contingency of a takeover
bid for a bank or an insurance
company to see the force of
this argument. However at-
tractive the price might be, the
directors could not possibly
recommend its acceptance, un-
less they were abundantly satis-
fied that the prior interests of
the depositors or policyholders,
as the case might be, were fully
protected ....
Thrift in Management
“Lying behind this ques-
tion,’’ Mr. Tuke went on, “is
also the tendency, so preva-
lent in the modern outlook on
life, to deride the Victorian
virtue of thrift: the desire to
provide for the possible rainy
day.
“High taxation and inflation
have combined to make it
almost impossible for the in-
dividual to accumulate any
substantial capital by savings
during his lifetime, and the
Welfare State, while removing
financial anxiety about illness
and old age, has at the same
time diminished in the ordinary
man the sense of personal res-
ponsibility for his own future
and that of his family.
“Translated into terms of
business management we find
the same tendency. In olden
days it was considered wise and
meritorious to write-down your
assets out of profits, in order to
fortify the business against
possible misfortune in the
future. Nowadays, the result
of a policy of this kind is to
make the company vulnerable
to an unwelcome takeover bid.
“Formerly extensions were
often financed out of retained
profits; nowadays we are told,
on the contrary, that available
profits should be distributed up
to the hilt, and that when new
capital is required the share-
holders or the public should be
invited to supply it.
The Share-boom
“Unless it can be guaranteed
that business will boom for
ever, if necessary by the reck-
less injection of inflationary
demand, I cannot believe that
the new doctrine is worthy of
acceptance, and it certainly
accords ill with Government
pleas for restraint in dividends.
I would much rather leave it
to the directors of the company
to hold the scales fairly between
the present and the future, be-
tween current dividends and
future expansion.
“In the last eighteen months,
a number of influences have
combined to put great pressure
on the market for industrial
ordinary shares, with the result
that the prices of many of them
have recently attained heights
in relation to their dividend
yield which would have been
considered impossible a year
ago and do not ring entirely
true today.
“It is perhaps in some degree
a moot point how much of this
is due to optimism about the
future of British industry and
how much to pessimism about
the eventual return of inflation.
Takeover bids, or the prospect
of them, have made their con-
tribution, which is not alto-
gether healthy.
“On the other hand, there
has been, so far as I know, very
little carrying of stocks and
shares on borrowed money,
which has always been a
feature of unhealthy Stock Ex-
change booms in the past. The
fundamental cause seems to be
that the demand for this class
of investment from life-insur-
ance funds and pension funds,
and now the increasingly popu-
lar unit-trusts, all of which
represent in the main the small
savings of private citizens,
greatly exceeds the supply, and
investment from overseas has
also made its contribution.
“On top of all this comes the
Government’s long - expected
proposal to include equities
within the definition of trustee
securities. In that it will add
to the pressure, this proposal
could hardly have been more
unfortunately timed, and many
life-tenants are likely to be
sadly disillusioned when they
find that, if advantage is to be
taken of it, their immediate
income will be drastically re-
duced.
“The pressure could perhaps
be relieved in some degree by
an increase in the supply of
this class of investment. This
is a wonderful opportunity for
companies whose present capi-
tal resources fall short of their
present or estimated future
needs to invite their share-
holders or the public to provide
them with some more. In their
own interests they should make
hay while the sun shines.
“The time may almost have
arrived when the managers of
funds where income is being
accumulated should-weigh in
the balance the certainty of a
yield of 5 per cent, from a
Government security against
the uncertainty of the prospect,
however hopeful, in investing
in equities at today’s prices,
which may produce an initial
yield of as little as 3 per cent.
This would apply particularly
to funds which do not pay in-
come-tax ; money accumulated
at 5 per cent, doubles itself and
its income in less than 15 years
provided that the income can
be invested at that rate
throughout the period; is it
certain that an investment in
equities today with the income
similarly accumulated in
equities, will be yielding more
than 10 per cent on the money
in 1974?”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; % year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply -whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
Not Fat, Just Muscle
By GAVIN CASEY
kept on losing
L—l weight after he came
JL JL here. He kept on for
weeks and weeks.”
Aunty Sal said this in tones
in which disbelief and indigna-
tion were nicely blended. It
was something that couldn’t
happen; but it had. It must
have resulted at least partly
from some hidden wickedness
in the man of whom she was
talking.
Aunty was the Head Sister
in this ward of the hospital’s
Chest Wing, and she took it
seriously. This was her ward,
and though it might be the job
of the doctors to produce better
X-rays and the like, it was her
duty, to put flesh on the
patients. She succeeded right
from the start in nine out of
ten cases, and if she failed she
took it almost as a personal
affront.
Everybody had about six
meals a day, anyway, and if a
man didn't respond to this
Aunty stuffed him with pro-
tein-milk and egg-flips, vitamin-
tablets and everything she could
think of, until finally he gave
up the battle against avoirdu-
pois and started to swell
obediently.
Then she pointed him out
with pride to one and all, with
the hurt and disbelieving note
coming into her voice only
when she referred to his evil
past, when the skin had hung
on his bones and he had pig-
headedly refused to fill it up
with some decent layers of
flesh.
Most of us genuinely wanted
to get fatter, and we didn't fail
from lack of trying. When you
get skinny enough your bones
hurt, and you get a shock every
time you look at what’s left
of you in a mirror, and you
can see horror and fear on the
faces of friends and relations
when they pay visits. You want
to get fatter, all right.
T>ut then, of course, if you
just lie in bed and eat all
the time, and the doctors and
the drugs and the rest have
more-or-less conquered the
wogs that were gnawing at
your lungs, you sometimes get
too fat.
No model-agency or health-
school or dancing-academy
could ever have been filled
with women as worried about
their weight as we were in that
hospital-ward. If a man wasn’t
too thin he was too fat, or
might be in a week or two, or
would be when he went home.
Nobody’s clothes fitted him any
more, though that didn’t matter
much, as we lived in hospital
pyjamas, which didn’t fit either.
The hospital had one size in
pyjamas which had obviously
been made for Chips Rafferty
in his youth, when he was just
as tall and a lot thinner. The
other size had seemingly been
made for Little Lord Faunt-
leroy at the age of twelve or
thirteen.
“His old man's got influence.”
As one average-sized man
explained to his visitors, the
idea of the large ones, at least,
was sound, as the legs covered
his feet so he didn’t wear out
his slippers, and the arms came
down over his hands so he
didn’t have to worry about a
handkerchief.
A nyway, as regards weight,
some were too thin and
some too fat, but nobody was
ever just right, and weighing-in
day, which was Saturday, was a
big occasion.
During most of the week
weights were almost as popular
a topic of conversation as pen-
sions and entitlements under
the Repatriation Act, but -the
showdown, and the real joy
and sadness, came on Satur-
days. Some of us grimly
ignored the scales in their
corner except on those days,
and others seemed to weigh
themselves worriedly before
and after every meal; but on
Saturdays it was official, it was
done by a Sister, it went down
in the book, and there could
be no argument.
Once two of the herring-
gutted types, Ernie and Dan,
got to disputing about weight
the way you do in a chest-
ward, with plenty of emphatic
language and extravagant ex-
pressions, but with no real
malice. Then they had a small
bet as to who would gain the
most during the coming week,
and neither went near the scales
until the Saturday.
Then the gentle Sister, who
was a new hand and not used
to the ways of woggos in their
wards, got two severe shocks.
Danny weighed first, and had
put on about three pounds,
which would be a lot for any-
body, but was quite unnatural
for a man who had so far been
gaining an ounce or two at a
time, like a poor old-age pen-
sioner buying butter.
Danny stepped proudly off
the platform, after she had
checked the figures anxiously
several times, and finally
written them down. Unfor-
tunately, as he did so one of
his slippers fell off, and there
was a great clatter as pennies
fell and rolled everywhere.
The other slipper was then
more-or-less torn off him, and
it, too, had its sole lined with
pennies and ha’pennies. He
weighed about three pound less
barefooted, and the Sister
shook her head sadly as she
altered the book.
After this bitter experience
the lass took no risks with
Ernie. She examined his feet
and even looked in his mouth
like somebody trying to tell
the age of a horse. She patted
(Continued on page 45)


Hr.
%
l
$*W/;
hi
cf/^o
y 5
&
Aesop said:
“Blimeijl Is it
true the kids
still read them?"
He should have known “The Tortoise and the Hare” and his other
fables would not be forgotten; there’s a lot of wisdom in them.
There is a lot of wisdom too in insuring children as soon as possible
after they are born, but it must be the right kind of policy.
The right kind of policy is one which provides a flexible arrangement
to cover the unknown contingencies in the child’s future.
A.M.P. children’s policies are specially designed with
this thought in mind.
Let your A.M.P. man tell you about them.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Chairman: CECIL H. HOSKINS • General Manager: M. C. BUTTFIELD
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by funds exceeding £450,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
P 0798


NO LINE-BELT
By
JOHN F.
TRIFELLY
EDDIE RAND came out
of the maze of tents
and caravans and walked
over to the heavy utility,
He was a big man and the
heavy line-belt with ropes
dangling from his broad
shoulders made him seem
bigger in the fading light.
Standing beside the truck he
slipped the ropes from his
shoulders, unbuckled the
leather ?«ound his waist and
slung the belt onto the pile
in the truck.
That s thatj he thought, as
he turned towards the gang of
electricians standing in front
of tne refi eshment-booth, and
thank heaven it s done.
It was like that every show-
time ; pleased with the expecta-
tioi and glad at tj> e flnisli of
their work, that little gang over
there and himself. He didn’t
know why the anticipation was
pleasant, because the show
meant extra hours of hard
work for them.
During the past week they
had been out at the show-
grounds every day, mounting
temporary switchboards, rig-
ging-up telephone-connections,
preparing their own firm’s
pavilion for the show. It was
no fun, lugging the great ex-
tension-ladder from pole to
pole with a scorching sun in
the clear blue sky. After a
while your knees began to
ache, your feet were sore from
standing on the rung of a
ladder, and the line-belt seemed
like a ton-weight draped all
over you.
People were queer, Eddie
thought. How could they look
forward to that? Maybe it was
the thought of being a neces-
sary part of something big, or
maybe it was just being able
to watch the show-people move
in and set up. That was it,
Eddie decided. Everything that
happened today—the steady
stream of trucks and caravans
rolling in from early morning;
the canvas covering the ground;
the clang of the sledgehammers
on iron stakes; the diesels piled
high with equipment, backing
and edging, with inches to
spare; the ferris-wheel and the
octopuses going up piece by
piece; the tea-chests packed
with all the cheap prizes; the
people themselves, travel-
stained and weary, some decent,
some mean; and everywhere,
orderly confusion. That was
what fascinated him and his
workmates; that was the best
part of the show, what the
hundreds of people who would
swarm through the gates to-
morrow missed every year.
It wasn’t until mid-afternoon
that Eddie and the boys had
started their mad rush. They
were in teams of two, each
team working a certain number
of poles: six teams going flat-
out—with old Herb, the fore-
man, collecting the fees —had
all the sideshows and camps
connected-up just before dark.
Sometimes, Eddie thought,
watching Herb with his game-
leg, the little Irish foreman had
the toughest job. Herb was
hard and smart when it came
to business, but some of these
fellows were tricky. Eddie
wondered if anyone had ever
bested Herb. He doubted it.
He reached the booth and
Herb said, “You all finished,
Eddie?”
“Yes, Herb.”
“That’s everyone in, then.”
He spoke to a young appren-
tice. “Where’s Lenny Tann s
extension?”
“Put it on your ute, Herb.
Thought you'd want to keep an
eye on it,” the lad answered.
“Yes, I do, too. Lenny'd
skin me alive if somebody
lifted that ladder. Our two
and the three belonging to the
council are under the grand-
stand, aren’t they?”
Someone said, “Yes,” and
Herb said, “Well, that ties it
all up then. We can go home
and eat.”
HThe group broke-up and Herb
turned to Eddie: “Cornin’
for a beer?”
“No, thanks, Herb. It’s late.
I’d best be getting home.
Mum’ll be getting worried.”
“I’ll drop you off, then.”
“Thanks, Herb.”
They started towards the
utility, Herb with his game-leg
causing him to half-limp, half-
hop, awkwardly.
“Your mother’s pretty fond
of you, Eddie, isn’t she?”


“Let£ have another
little Hennessti"
f
'tb'sSs 4r/C.
mr* jm
•^■sr^W/l
r:
rj
war >
Uk
rtT
f rv\ \
if?
*•••
PvpvnsMg
ASS3NN3H
Is there a Hennessu in the house?
n H2R
Eddie looked surprised. “Yes,
I guess she is a bit,” he said.
After a pause the big man
went on: “Mum says the job’s
too dangerous. Keeps telling
me about that joker that was
killed when they were putting
the new power-line through to
Wellcot.”
“I remember him,” Herb
said. “He had no line-belt.
The papers said the fall killed
him, not the shock.”
“I try to explain that to
Mum, but she doesn’t want to
understand.”
“That’s women all over,”
Herb replied, laughing. He
thought Eddie sounded close to
exasperation.
Herb said, “Don’t let it get
you down. That’s what mothers
were made for.”
Eddie said nothing and
started round to the other side
of the truck.
One hand on the door and
his bad leg resting on the
running-board, Herb studied
Eddie’s back. A fine lad, he
thought. Must be nearly 12
years since he first came and
asked for a job. He had been
a good apprentice and now he
was a first-class tradesman. He
worked hard and fast, and he
used his head; but he was big,
too big, Herb thought, for a
wire-jerker.
Should have studied further
and gone into the technical
side of tfie game. He had the
brains for it. Too late now,
though. The boy was grown-
up. Should be looking around
for a girl—but Herb knew
Eddie wouldn’t be getting
married for a while yet, be-
cause Eddie Rand was one of
those fellows who lived up 4o
his unwritten obligations.
And there was Eddie’s
mother.
A fine boy, Herb thought,
as he heaved on the door,
climbed in and started the
truck. In silence they bumped
along the track that ran behind
this restless, fascinating town-
ship of canvas and caravans.
Eddie noticed the big pole-
lights come on, illuminating
practically the whole grounds,
and casting long shadows which
disappeared into the patches of
darkness left here and there,
where the pools of yellow light
failed to meet. Above the
growl of the engine the two
men heard the sounds of a
restless community at rest, the
occasional burst of laughter
floating through the still air,
the clatter of saucepans and
utensils in a dish, the rattle of
chains as livestock moved
about. Somewhere in the dark-
ness a song ended abruptly with
lurid profanity not intended by
the composer. Eddie grinned,
and wondered idly what had
caused the singer so much con-
cern.
As the utility swung around
a bend in the track, the head-
lamps swept across a big cara-
van and showed clearly the
gaudy lettering on the side:
Teal Bros. Circus and Rodeo.
Herb swore softly.
“What’s the trouble?” Eddie
asked.
“Damn it. I was supposed
to get Ernie Teal a new switch-
board made-up this afternoon
and I clean forgot it. There he
is now. I’d better tell him I’ll
have it out first thing in the
morning.”
Herb stopped the truck and
Eddie saw a short thick man,
in breeches and riding-boots,
walking towards the caravan.
Herb called out and he came
over to them.
“Hello, Herb,” he said in a
low voice.
“Hello, Ernie. That switch-
board you wanted, it slipped
my mind this afternoon, but
I’ll bring it out with me in the
morning.”
“That’s all right, Herb. No
hurry for it. Just so long as
she’s all hooked-up and ready
when we leave.” He opened
his mouth to say something
more but instead cocked his
head in a listening attitude.
The three of them heard a
low growl crescendo into a
thunderous roar. Then silence.
Herb spoke: “One of your
pets, Ernie?”
“Yeah,” the showman
answered. “Savage as all hell.
Been like that ever since we
sold his mate a fortnight ago.
Mauled Spiro, the tamer, three
times, and one of my boys is
out of action with his arm
near bitten-off.”
“Give him to me, Ernie. I’ll
take him home for the kids to
play with.”
(Continued on page 44)
LONDON CEMETERY
I see tears in the dew,
amongst the graves the golden summers of daffodils
and in the mausoleum pigeons fat as hens
mourning their voices.
The sparse elegance of the scientific grave,
the information notated in crisp dates,
the experiment of life concluded,
the electric bolt of Faraday absorbed in the moist cell.
Along the wall, above the bickering weeds,
the plaque of Marvell once dwelling here,
a Latin secretary of state, wit, satirist,
but he had not world enough and time.
Landseer, a stag’s head small as medals,
the printing in metal on polished stone,
the rain melting the strength into the obscurity of
pavements,
and the melodrama of tangled weed and hauntling vault.
But the great matter not.
There are sagas enough in this chaos of stone,
without the ornament of proud names.
Each draped urn, each wooden cross, each vain heart
marks out the fear and the glory of two-hundred years
I am alone with the sparrows,
the long amphitheatre of vaults,
and my thoughts.
I see tears in the dew.
W.A.
J. W. JEFFERY.


WHO ARE THE REAL COLONIALISTS?
New Guinea’s Future
At the end of Nikita Khrushchev’s
Indonesian tour last February the
Soviet Premier and Dr. Soekarno
issued a joint statement, part of
which, after affirming that “all manifes-
tations of colonialism should be eradi-
cated in the interests of world peace,”
went on to say that “in this connection
the Government of the U.S.S.R. fully
supports the rights of the claim of the
Republic of Indonesia in regard to West
Irian [West New Guinea].”
Colonialism, in the sense in which
Khrushchev and Soekarno use the word,
implies the exploitation of one country
or people by another. The Khrushchev-
Soekarno statement completely ignores
the fact that whatever West New Guinea’s
status may have been before the war,
Holland has for several years accepted
the trust-territory obligations provided
for in Article 73 of the United Nations
Charter. These' include an undertaking
to work towards the political progress
of the native population and to assist
them to eventual self-government,
“taking due account of the national
aspirations of the population.”
It must be admitted that as far as
national aspirations go the bulk of the
people of New Guinea have displayed
none at alt. In the past their political
horizons have never reached far beyond
their own villages. But in both the
Dutch and the Australian sectors of the
vast island attempts are now being made
to broaden their background and to
prepare them for self-government.
Dutch Declaration
Am y a few days before the Khrushchev-
Soekarno statement the Netherlands
Under-Secretary for Dutch New Guinea
Affairs (Theo Bot) repeated Holland’s
intentions in this regard and said that
it was prepared to leave the western end
of the island “as soon as the General
Assembly's Trusteeship Council says the
Australian-administered part is ready
for self-determination.”
Pleading that instead of blame Hol-
land deserved some support “morally,
politically and perhaps, if necessary,
militarily,” in guarantees from some
other country, he pointed out that the
Australian territory was protected by
Seato and Anzus, but West New Guinea
was exposed “to any adventure, from
which side it may come.”
His concern is readily understand-
able. Only three days later General
Nasution, Indonesian National Security
Minister and Chief of Staff of the Army y
said in the Indonesian Parliament that
the people of West New Guinea should
be encouraged to rebel against the Dutch
and that the Indonesian Government
should state clearly that it would support
their resistance even if it meant war.
When Nasution spoke Khrushchev had
already voiced his support of Indonesia’s
claim ; the joint statement repeating it
was issued two days later.
General Nasution’s speech cut right
across the assurances given by Soekarno
time and time again that Indonesia has
no intention of using force to achieve
her ends in New Guinea. Similar con-
tradictions between Indonesian spokes-
men have occurred before, but usually
it has been possible to discount their
significance. Nasution, however, is
second only to Soekarno in the Indo-
nesian hierarchy—in a final showdown
he might even be above him. His utter-
ances cannot be dismissed as of no
moment.
Conference at Hollandia
'Cast on the heels of all these remarks
on the future of West New Guinea
came the second conference on Austra-
lian - Netherlands administrative co-
operation in New Guinea. The first
conference was held in Canberra in
October, 1958. The second was held
in Hollandia, capital of Dutch New
Guinea, and discussion extended over
five days from March 3. A statement
issued after the conference mentioned
the degree of co-operation already
achieved and recommended measures for
greater co-operation in administration,
economic development, education, public
health, communications and native-
atfairs. Suggestions included joint study-
groups, the exchange of teachers and
students and the widening of the know-
ledge of English “so as to take advantage
of mutual experiences and skills.” It
was stressed that it was the aim of each
administration “to promote by every
means in its power the welfare of the
inhabitants of its territory and assist
them towards self-determination.”
This statement of aims is doubly
important at the present time. It pro-
claims to the world at large and to the
United Nations Assembly the intention
of the two countries administering New
Guinea to train and educate the
Papuans for eventual self-government.
This is something they could never expect
to achieve once they fell under the con-
trol of Indonesia. Even before Soekarno
dismissed his Parliament he was pro-
claiming that the traditional system of
government for Indonesia was “the
leadership of a central authority in the
hands of an elder one who did not
dictate, but led and protected.”
This paternalism, this assumption that
“father knows best,” has been the basis
of many dictatorships. It wears many
names, and “guided democracy” is
merely the latest of them.
Australia’s Interest
HPhe second reason for the importance
of this statement of aims—and of
the earlier statement by Under-Secretary
Bot —is one that is of vital interest to
Australia.
This is the assurance that Holland
does not intend to abdicate its respon-
sibility in West New Guinea. It had
been feared in this country that the
Netherlands, having been stripped of
most of its property in Indonesia, might
be persuaded to agree to a deal which
would save the remainder of its assets
from confiscation in return for the
surrender of its sovereignty over West
New Guinea. There is not much in its
past experience of agreements with
Djakarta to encourage the belief that
such a deal would long be honored after
the disputed territory had been handed-
over, but Holland is, after all, a small
country, and the line-up of anti-colonial
choristers at U.N.O. has been rather
vociferous.
Support for the continuance of Dutch
trusteeship over West New Guinea until
the people of the territory are adjudged
capable of deciding their own future is
one matter on which the major political
parties in Australia are in agreement.
The Menzies Government has made its
attitude on the subject quite clear, and
Opposition-leader Calwell has expressed
his party’s support in plain terms.
The task of educating Papuans in
sufficient numbers to a standard high
enough to enable them to function as
a viable community in a modern world
is a formidable one. Some of the diffi-
culties were indicated last month when
Minister for Territories Paul Hasluck
introduced a bill to authorise the raising
of a small public loan in Papua and
New Guinea. He said that one of the
objects was to encourage the native
people in thrift and to teach them that
money invested by them in public loans
was used for their own benefit while
at the same time it was earning interest
for them. Mr. Calwell warmly sup-
ported this principle.
Rights and Responsibilities
'"This is an aspect of self • government
A that is often overlooked by U.N.
visitors who demand an early target-
date for ending the trusteeship. They
tend to concentrate on the rights of the
natives to self-government and ignore
the responsibilities that go with it.
Teaching these is going to be a major
task for both the Australian and Dutch
administrations. But the job has been
started and it will be finished.
On the other hand, the Soekarno plan
would merely extend the paternalism of
the “leadership of a central authority in
the hands of an elder” <in Djakarta) to
the people of New Guinea. A deal of
the type sought by Soekarno —Dutch
assets in Indonesia in return for
sovereignty over West New Guinea —
would be a case of two countries deciding
the destiny of whole peoples without
reference to the wishes of the people
whose sovereignty and soil were being
bartered. The very sort of deal the
anti-colonialists are accustomed to
condemn in shrill voices.


THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
A.J.C. Carnival
At Randwick last Saturday
close on 60,000 watched the
running of the £6OOO Don-
caster Handicap, witnessing
another splendid win in this
race by Melbourne’s Tudor
Hill. At twenties this time and
twenty-fives when he won it
last year, Tudor Hill carried
topweight of 9st. and staged
a powerful finish from well
back at the turn to get there
a short-neck too good for the
heavily backed local In Love,
with Prince Lea (another from
Melbourne) a length-and-a-
quarter away, and Gabonia
(also from the Yarraside)
collecting the prize for fourth.
Tudor Hill, again ridden by
Sydney apprentice G. Howard,
ran record time for the race,
1.35. He had evidently been
set for it from when the
weights came out and he was
seen to be up only 31b. on his
last year’s burden. Altogether,
a nice bit of planning, and a
well-deserved win all round.
Tudor Hill joins Blue Legend
and Slogan 11, who both also
won successive Doncasters.
/
Tudor Hill’s rider, young
Howard, deserves a special pat.
Possessor of as strong a pair
of guiding hands as you’d wish
to see, he rode a grand finish,
fairly lifting Tudor Hill past
the field to the post.
• • • •
In Love was kicked on the
inside of his near-hind thigh
as he was walking round
behind the starting-gates, so
he may be reckoned perhaps
a bit unlucky. G. Podmore
appeared overanxious to get
to the front on Martello
Towers, and thus ridden the
grey failed to see it out. Tudor
Hill’s 1.35 cut one-fifth of a
second from the previous best,
made two years ago by
Grenoble. Connections of the
winner now aim at winning
the V.R.C.’s £lO,OOO George
Adams Stakes in the spring,
a mile race replacing the
Cantala Stakes at the Mel-
bourne Cup fixture. A six-
year-old entire, Tudor Hill is
owned in England by a Bir-
mingham manufacturer, S. G.
Morgan.
For an outlay of 750gns. as
a yearling Tulloch has done
a grand job of stacking-up the
thousands for owner E. A.
Haley. The cham p i o n’s
Autumn Stakes win last Satur-
day was his 25th from 33
starts, making him Australia’s
greatest winner at £72,618.
Until Saturday Redcraze, who
had also been trained at
Randwick in the final stages of
his career by T. J. Smith, had
won the most money in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand,
£71,481. Prince Darius fol-
lowed next in the Autumn
Stakes procession, with New
"No more, Milly, or the stewards'll be on to her.”
Zealand mare Froth last of the
three starters, It) lengths
behind Tulloch.
Very neat apprentice 17-
year-old Peter Miers (inden-
tured to Rosebery trainer K.
Suttle) nicely landed a double
on Doncaster day—Quiet Life
(Biraganbil Handicap) and
Kaoru (Osborne Handicap).
His win on Quiet Life was his
fifth on that consistent galloper,
winner at his last six starts.
The wins brought the young-
’un’s allowance down to 51b.
He can be bracketed with
Howard as a pair of the best.
Another in the consistency
bracket, Something New has
now won two races and has
been twice second in recent
starts. She finished second to
Princess Delville at Warwick
Farm on April 2, and on Satur-
day that filly was an odds-on
favorite against her in the
George Rowe Handicap. Sell-
wood secured a last-minute
engagement to pilot Some-
thing New when M- Schu-
macher had to forego the
mount owing to illness, and the
T. J. Smith-trained filly won
as she liked. Sellwood also got
the mount on the Smith-
trained Exemption in the
Coogee Handicap and won
that, too. Repatriate, an out-
standing sprinter in Brisbane,
ran his best race so far in Syd-
ney when he finished well in
second place to Exemption.
At the midweek meeting in
the A.J.C.’s Carnival three-
year-old filly Renown recorded
a stylish win in the Second
Bronte Maiden, coming from
well back in the field. Im-
ported Hideaway was second
and Circular Quay third. The
latter also came from the rear
of the field, and his first suc-
cess seems close in a race at
about a mile or more. Trained
by Bill Kelso for A. R. Rial,
Renown is by Balloch (imp.)
from (imp.) by Gains-
borough fro"m Tilly by Charles
O’Malley.
• • • •
At the same midweek meet-
ing Rosebery trainer E. T.
(Tim) O’Sullivan brought off a
double with the two importa-
tions Punching Peter and
North Row. Both were bred
in Ireland.
• • • •
Now, about that staggering
price for a Star Kingdom
youngster at the Inglis Rand-
wick sales. Well, S.K. has got
some good ones —there’s no
question about that—but buy-
ing a yearling at any price is
aways a gamble, and the
higher the price apparently the
greater the risk. Some of the
costliest haven’t earned enough
to pay the feed-bill. Matinee
Idol (7100gns.) hasn’t done
anything to date. Domi-
nant (6750gn5.), Nargoon
(6500gn5.) and Noble Archer
(6500gn5.) proved costly ven-
tures for their buyers, while
Royal Kingdom (6500gns) has
won a few sprints only.
Maybe lan Caldwell, who
bought the Star Kingdom
youngster at the new record-
price of 15,500gn5., will
have better luck. He certainly
got a nice-looking bit of horse-
flesh. By way of incentive
there’s the example of Fine and
Dandy, who won £19,264 in his
first racing-season, an Aus-
tralian record. Tulloch earned
£18,478 as a two-year-old.
The 15,500gn5. Star King-
dom (imp.) yearling really was
a treat to look at as he paraded
round, and it was no wonder
the bidding was keen. Bred
at Fairways Stud, Muswell-
brook (N.S.W.), he’s the second
foal of his dam, Confection,
whose first one, Kateena,
landed races at Randwick and
Canterbury. Confection is a
half-sister to Starover (speedy
two-year-old winner in the best
class here, and later successful
in America) and is by Confes-
sor (imp.) from Mirrilee (sister
to Liberal King and half-sister
to Tamberlane) by Tudor King
(imp.) from Mary Craib by
Liberal from Kilkenny Lady
(half-sister to Wexford and
Emerald, the dam of Ever-
green) by Legionnaire (imp.)
from Kilkenny Lass (sister to
Lysander). Trust there’s no
significance in the fact that
Kilkenny Lass was by imported
Absurd.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
Missing Friend
TO ALEXANDER REGGS formerly of
Port Hedland in the State of, Western
Australia but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ROSE
ALEXIA MAUDE B EGGS (otherwise
Alexia Rose Maude Sanders (has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the grounds of failure to
comply with a Maintenance Order made
by the Court of Petty Sessions at Port
Hedland on the 12th day of November
19f>l and UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court Melbourne before the
23rd day of May 1960 and file an answ’er
on or before the 3rd day of June 1960
the case may proceed in your absence.
ROGER KIRBY, 224 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitor and Agent for IVAN'
GILBERT KELL, Dean Street, Albury,
in the State of New South Wales, Soli-
citor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA (Divorce).
Launceston District Registry.
No. 5 of 1960.
TO FREDA GERTRUDE REES for-
merly of 7 Payne Street Burnie in Tas-
mania.—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition
has been filed in this Court endorsed
with a notice to you to appear and
thereafter to make answer to the charges
in the Petition of NOAH REES for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition
proved and pronounce judgment therein
your absence notwithstanding AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purposes aforesaid within 30 days after
the date of this publication an appear-
ance must be entered either at the
Launceston District Registry of the
Supreme Court of Tasmania Cameron
Street Launceston aforesaid or at the
Principal Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania Franklin Square Hobart in
the State of Tasmania. DATED the
25th day of March, 1960. —J. V.
TANNER, District Registrar.
r At Flemington
A couple of hours before
post-time for last Saturday's
Victoria Handicap the ultimate
winner, Correct, was a doubt-
ful starter. His owner, Alex
Brown, feared the race might
aggravate an injury to the
gelding’s off-hind fetlock..
However, Melbourne Racing
Club’s vets. J. D. Arnott and
L. F. McManamny gave their
opinion that the race would
do Correct no harm, and, in
the manner of his brilliant
finish when he won the New-
market, the Tsaoko gelding
won as brilliantly again. At
the three-furlongs, just where
the broad sweep into the
straight begins, Correct was
absolute last two lengths
behind the second-last runner.
Lyle Harbridge (who’s riding
well) switched Correct away
from the rails to make his run
around “everything,” and the
three-year-old picked the field
up with half-a-furlong to
spare, and on the line was well
clear of runner-up Society
Beau. It was an uncommonly
good run, and worth remem-
bering if Correct makes the
trip north for the Doomben
Ten Thousand—as he is likely
to do. Correct’s dam, Authen-
ticity, bred in England in 1946,
was by Fairway from Sly
Abbess by Foxlaw from Abbots
Toil. F. W. Hughes imported
Authenticity to N.S.W. in 1949.
• • • •
Mac, one of Victoria’s best
handicappers—favorite for last
year’s Melbourne Cup—cer-
tainly looked a class above the
moderate field opposed to him
in the 12-furlongs Hampton
Handicap. The handicapper
recognised the disparity by
allotting the MacArthur geld-
ing 9.7, and to get 71b. off
Mac’s back trainer A. I. Munro
engaged the cross-country
apprentice Brian Hunt, who
normally rides the gelding
work. The lad got Mac home
a winner, but he took his
mount to the front much too
far from home, and then had
to whip too hard altogether to
hold the lead. Mac deserved
better treatment. He will prob-
ably go across for the Adelaide
Cup next month, and, favor-
ably handicapped with only
8.12, he should repeat the
success he had in the race last
year.
• • • •
The doubles-tote returned
£823 2s. for each ss. invested
on the Acorn Stakes and first
Westall Trial double. The
winners started at 25 to 1 and
12 to 1, which works out at
337 to 1 for an “all-up" bet.
The tote odds were 3291 to 1.
The winner of the Acorn
Stakes (seven furlongs; two-
year-old fillies) was Lady
Feisal, who had not finished
closer than ninth at her other
four starts. She’s by the
imported horse Arab Legion
from Hyroanie, who is also the
dam of Hyleena. . Arbilot,
second “leg” of the rich
double, is a four-year-old mare
by Arbroath from Ceol Mor.
She was bred by the V.R.C.
chairman Sir Chester Manifold,
for whom Arbroath won the
V.R.C. St. Leger and Aus-
tralian Cup in 1953.
One of the day’s best runs
at Flemington was Smoke
Flare's effort to start from the
extreme outside barrier in the
Easter Handicap (nine furlongs;
three-year-olds) and lead prac-
tically throughout. Last win-
ter Smoke Flare won a couple
of mile races at Flemington in
good style, and now that he has
come back to the winning-list
he will be dangerous in any
middle-distance event against
the class of three-year-olds out
at this time of the year.
* 3=
Trots
At Harold Park last Thurs-
day night Bega pacer Fettle
spreadeagled them in the Free-
for-all, in lfsec. outside his
own race-record time. He
was in front and never off the
bit to win comfortably by two
lengths, with Victorian
Maestro’s Melody trailing him
home. Fettle beat New Zea-
lander Caduceus in January,
won a heat of the Inter-
Dominion in record time and
finished a game fourth to the
N.Z. champ, in the final. In his
first run at headquarters since
his two-year-old days, Junee
pacer Skymain ran a splendid
Derby trial in the Country
Three - year - old championship
(Ilf fur.), beating Stormy Dew
by four lengths in race-record
time of 3.10 3-5. Skymain
qualified for this race when he
recently won the Riverina
Derby at Wagga. Alf Phillis
drove Shellgrit to a well-
deserved win in the Trotters’
Cup (15fur. 92yds.) after
several unlucky placings.
Enzedders Lenvin and Ebony
Scott filled the places, one
length, three lengths.
* * *
Other Sports
“Keima”: Australian
amateur golf champion Bruce
Devlin carded a sizzling 63 on
Goulburn (N.S.W.) Golf Club’s
course on April 10, eight under
par and four strokes better
than his own course record of
67, set in 1957. His round in-
cluded 10 birdies, six pars and
two holes at one over par.
The local paper was so im-
pressed it reproduced a photo
of his card. It was only Dev-
lin's second round on the
course since he had returned
from living for a time in Mel-
bourne. A 21-year-old Goul-
burn man, Devlin beat Queens-
lander Jack Coogan two up at
Royal Sydney last September
to win the Australian title, and
is acknowledged one of the
world’s best amateurs.
* * *
In Sydney's weekend Rugby
League St. George, with about half
its team looking jobs for the
casualty ward, was still able to
wallop North Sydney 46-7; Easts
do wheel Canterbury - Bankstown
22-14; Newtown shaded Parra-
matta 24-21; and Manly, with a
long start, just managed to scrape
home from South Sydney 13-14.
In Rugby Union St. George beat
Drummoyne 24-11, and Northern
Suburbs beat Eastwood 37-11, five-
eighth John Dowse scoring 22 per
boot, a record for Norths in a
match.
Saturday ushered in the V.E.L.
tumult and shouting: Coliingwood
outclassing Fitzroy 11.14 to 3.7;
Souths ditto against St. Kilda
17.12-8.15; and Essendon beating
Hawthorn 10.15-5.10.
* * *
“H.W.D.": South Sydney
Rugby League team's sup-
porters got a great run for
their money—and sore throats
—when the Rabbit-ohs were
overhauling Manly last Satur-
day, to get within a point of
winning, and same supporters
deserved their thrill. It doesn’t
matter whether their team’s on
top or on the bottom rung,
they still roll-up in their
thousands to urge-on the Red
and Green. A week earlier St.
George and Manly, the two
leaders, could draw only
13,000 on the Saturday; next
day Souths played the wooden-
spooners, Parramatta, and
drew 14,000! Then, against!
Manly at the Cricket-ground,
and in spite of the opposition
of the Show next-door, they
attracted the biggest crowd
(19,000) for many a long day.
* * *
“R'ayander”: Watching the
third Herb Elliott versus Tony
Blue 880yds. clash in Brisbane
it was evident that Elliott was
unperturbed to win by two
yards in lm. 49.95ec. Elliott!
trailed just behind Blue most of
the way, drew level entering the
straight, and they raced stride
for stride until the final 50yds.,
when Elliott drew away con-
fidently to the line, with Blue
straining somewhat in his
finishing burst. Although
Elliott now leads Blue two
races to one in their 880yds.
meets, he contends that Blue is
the better half - miler. Blue
holds the national record of
lm. 48.6 sec.
* * *
“D.Ait”: A young -’un
named Ross Lear (12), who
suffered from asthma till he
took to swimming, set a record
in .the 110yds. senior freestyle
at the Combined Primary
Schools’ carnival at North
Sydney Pool. He’s coached by
Forbes Carlile.


c zAco/Awidti cA/'/de
/Ac 7/d/'/d’j ApAoice
Wherever you travel you will find "White
Label" Dewar's Scorch Whisky.
This is the Scotch which has earned the
world-wide reputation for unvarying excel-
lence and distinctive character.
S 3
"White Label’
Dr*«»s Fine Scou t. Whisk*
John Dewar & Sons V
the forum, Rome. Photo by Qantas •
“White Label’’
Dewar’s
Scotch Whisky
- it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
DWtl*
“R.A.”: Brisbane is to stage
the first official world’s open
snooker championship—announced
by Queensland Amateur Billiards
Association president C. Klingner
as being on at the Exhibition
Science Hall from June 6 to 17.
Klingner successfully conducted the
1954 world's unofficial snooker
championship in Brisbane, and also
in 1957 the first open snooker
championship of Australia. Both
were won by Warren Simpson
(N.S.W.). Simpson will be a con-
tender this year, but will find
tougher opposition. In giving their
official sanction the British Billiards
Council nominated Fred Davis —
regarded as the world’s best in
post-war years. He has to his
credit the top break in competitive
play—l44—and has recorded more
than 500 century-breaks. Fred was
the only player ever to defeat his
famous brother Joe. Other stars
nominated are Wilson Jones (all-
India champion and present world
amateur champion); Norman
Squires (N.S.W.; professional
champion of Australia); Kevin
Buries (Tasmania; present amateur
champion of Australia); Frank
Harris (N.S.W.; 1958 Australian
champion). Enzedder Clark
McConachy may also be in it.
Entries close this week (April 23).
Tournament sponsors are the
W. D. and H. O. Wills firm.
* * *
“E. 13”: South Melbourne
proved too strong for Rich-
mond in the Victorian Cricket
Association District final.
South, batting first, scored 371,
of which young opening-bat
Jim Conole contributed a solid
117. Richmond, chasing South’s
score, were soon in trouble,
speed pair lan Meckiff and
Alan Connelly crashing through
the cream of the Richmond
batsmen. However, a classic
innings from Noel Parnell, who
made 151, and determined
batting from the tailenders
boosted the total to 280. It
was South's third pennant,
other wins being well spaced—
-1891-92 and 1952-53. Reason
they have not won more pre-
mierships is that they have con-
tinually supplied Victoria and
Australia with top players.
* * *
“Golfer”: Jack Macqueen
admits to being one of the
happiest sportsmen in N.S.W.
He has reason to be. As presi-
dent of the Golf Association
he’s able to report an enormous
growth in membership of clubs
over the last few years. The
association now has 47,663
affiliated players, 26,895 of
them in country clubs.
* * *
“Lai”: Selection of Alf
Valentine in the West Indian
team to tour Australia late this
year came as a surprise to most
cricket followers. Valentine,
left-arm slow-bowler, hasn’t
played Test cricket for several
years. Another surprise was
the non-selection of champion
batsmafi Clyde Walcott, who
was recently recalled to the
West Indian team against Eng-
land. Those we’ll be seeing
are: F. Worrell (capt.), G.
Alexander, L. Gibbs, W. Hall,
J. Henricks, C. Hunte, R.
Kanhai, P. Lashley, S. Nurse,
S. Ramadhin, C. Smith, G.
Sobers, J. Solomon, A. Valen-
tine and C. Watson.
* * *
“Speedo”: American speed-
car driver Bob (“Two Gun”)
Tattersall has come, conquered
and departed from the Aus-
tralian speedway scene again,
his performances rev i v i n g
memories of such other brilli-
ant American drivers as Cal
Niday, Perry Grimm, Frank
(“Satan”) Brewer and Dick
(“Jet”) Brown, who have been
here since War 11. In that
scrap Tattersall, a paratrooper,
was four times wounded and
won the American Purple
Heart decoration, the Presi-
dent’s Citation and the Belgian
Croix de Guerre. He left here
a souvenir of h's latest visit to
Australia —his speedy Offen-
hauser car, purchased by speed-
car driver Jack O’Dea, of Vic-
toria.
* * *
“Bowler”: Tom Shake-
speare, president of the
N.S.W. Bowling Association,
has put before the association
a scheme that could spread
throughout the Commonwealth.
He proposes that each mem-
ber should make a small sub-
scription each week to help
create a special medical fund
and also establish a home for
aged, needy bowlers.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. NEGRO RESISTANCE
A new phase in the Negro
** fight against segregation in
the southern States of the U.S.
seems to have opened with the
wave of passive resistance —
boycotts, sit-down strikes, etc.,
conducted mainly by Negro
students which, London
“News Chronicle” notes,
“began spontaneously in Febru-
ary” and “now covers 12
southern States”:
“From the days of Gandhi
to the bus-boycott in South
Africa, recent history has
shown how effective passive
resistance can be. There is a
danger that it will revive all the
ugly passions that lie behind
segregation. Passive resistance
is a goad to authority and past
events have shown how easy it
is for authority to lose its head;
but the Negroes have little
choice in their method of
protest.
“This is not a moment for
the rest of the world to ‘in-
terfere’ in the internal affairs
of the United States—whose
President [has] again expressed
sympathy for the Negroes—but
it remains common knowledge
that segregation is a defiance
of the U.S. Constitution.”
London “Economist” reports
that already “several hundred”
of the young people taking part
in the demonstrations “have
been brought to court on
various charges—of trespass,
incitement to violence, breach
of fire-regulations and the
National Association for the
Advancement of Colored
People is taking-over their
defence.” :
“The N.A.A.C.P. will appeal
all the way to the Supreme
Court against convictions of
these students; many of them
have already been fined
heavily.
“The association’s lawyers,
who have made a fine art of
wanning Negro battles by legal
means, argue that it is a denial
of the Constitutional guarantee
of equal protection under the
law for a shopkeeper, who is
ready to sell soap or socks —
or even a sandwich—to a
Negro, to refuse to let him sit
down with white customers to
eat that sandwich. Other law-
yers believe that since a shop
is private property the owner
has a legal right to refuse to
serve a Negro; but they agree
that, when the police are called-
in to enforce this discrimina-
tion, there is a case for main-
taining that Constitutional
rights have been infringed.
“Such doubts about the law
will not deter southern officials
from invoking its full force
against the Negro students.
There is some justification for
this since racial tension is
certainly building-up again in
a disturbing way in the South.
But, as is being shown in a
number of places, the bi-racial
committees advocated by Presi-
dent Eisenhower are a more
effective way of avoiding
trouble.
“In San Antonio, Texas, for
example, an arrangement be-
tween white and colored busi-
nessmen and clergymen led to
the immediate opening of all
lunch-counters to Negroes.
Even in places where prejudices
and local customs are more
difficult to flout, businessmen
are not always opposed to the
students’ demands; for they
realise that the next step is a
boycott of all counters by the
Negroes whose purchases bring
southern shops a very large
part of their profits.”
Supporting this argument,
the “New York Times” adds
that “a heavy responsibility in
the lunch-counter struggle rests
on the national chain-stores
whose southern branches are
involved, and to date they have
not all met that responsibility.
Economic power of the kind
these chains have won carries
with it the duty to use the
power wisely and courageously.
The chains cannot hide behind
the excuse of local custom.
They should take the bold
step and make it their policy
to deal with all customers
equally, in all their stores.”
Vatican and Kremlin
'yORiTiNG from Rome to Man-
* * Chester “Guardian,” Sylvia
Sprigge notes that “the view
that the new Pope was a cheer-
ful, easygoing, accommodating
pontiff has quickly changed in
the course of John XXlll's first
year at the Vatican”:
“While Pius XII was at all
times accessible to the- diplo-
matic corps accredited to the
Vatican, John XXIII has be-
come remote for them, and far
more concerned with the inter-
nal government of the Church.
His Oecumenical Council pre-
parations have become his
main concern, and that council
also is not what people believed
it might become: an attempt to
reunite the Eastern Church to
the Church of Rome. The con-
versations in Rhodes last year
went far beyond what the new
Pope intended and, one was
told, lost Cardinal Tisserant his
position as Secretary of the
Oriental Congregation.
“At the Russicum in Rome,
that outpost of Jesuit mission-
ary-training for propagating
Christianity in Communist-
ruled countries, the notion
that the Pope’s long experience
in the Balkans as Nunzio, and
his fluent knowledge of Bul-
garian, would make him especi-
ally keen on steps towards re-
union with the Orthodox
Churches is treated as fanciful.
“The Russicum is extremely
well documented on persecu-
tion inside the Orthodox
Church and considers it just as
fierce as the persecutions and
restrictions on Roman Catho-
lics in Poland, Czechoslovakia,
China and other Communist
countries.
“There are quite a number
of Orthodox Catholics in Rome
also who explain that reunion
will never come now ‘because
we would never recognise all
the new saints made by the
Roman Church since our two
Churches separated in the 12th
century.’ This is a position
familiar to Anglicans who have
studied reunion.
“On the other side one hears
of ambitious political theories
emanating (as they always do)
from Jesuit quarters. The argu-
ment runs: Soviet Russia has
much to gain from meeting the
Roman Church’s demands.
Relaxation of persecution in
Communist countries, permis-
sion to reopen theological
colleges, freedom of Sunday-
school and confirmation
classes, could in turn bring
nearer the possibility of Soviet
Orthodox observers attending
the Oecumenical Council when
it finally meets in two or three
years’ time. And the Orthodox
Churches have so far been in
much closer contact with the
London “Daily Express .”
“MAIS NON! SURELY HIS NEXT STOP IS NOT THE VATICAN.”


It takes less than 1 hour to erect this
low cost 2000 bushel grain bin!
(1,000 Bushel type also auailable)
As every pastoralist knows, there are many times when it
is necessary to harvest grain which has a higher than normal
moisture content.
To meet emergencies of this type, the Lysaght Universal
Grain Bin has been designed. Not only does it save the cost
and wastage involved in bagging, but it also effects a major
saving in time and labour because it can be erected in under
one hour . . . dismantled just as quickly . . . and stored in a
surprisingly small space.
Grain with a moisture content as high as 14% can be stored
with safety in a Lysaght Universal Grain Bin. Especially
suitable for storage of wheat, oats, maize, milo and sorghum.
And note especially fodder conservation expenses are tax
deductible.
• Easily erected within existing farm buildings.
• Quickly dismantled . . . stored in minimum space
9 Rodent-proof galvanized steel sheet surround
® Available with Auger Chute or Grain Outlet
SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR
SHORT TERM INDOOR STORAGE
1,000 bushels capacity, 14' 9" diameter x 7' 6" high.
Packed weight 0.J.3.8 approx. Price F.O.R. New-
castle £6O.
2,000 bushels capactiy. 14' 9" diameter x 14' 6" high.
Packed weight 0.6.0.8 approx. Price F.O.R. New-
castle £97.
liiiii
WMSM
I■KPRMI
■ C t
-i
' ~r
• . '■ - t
"f!
. ' ■: -■ V-i V ■’ V V ~
• ....
:m
m
«ggs
mmm
m
' :■■; 50V ...v..' -,
‘ -
~v.-.*••••• •
,/* ;"
-:■:■■ -v
®§S
’ j % ■'• ' '^' J'* ® j
' * «'!
TiTT
& '$ s
ofL&
3LY
T
UNIVERSAL
GRAIN Bl
(Austrafian Patent No. 2)3098)
Sturdily built for exceptionally long life, the
Lysaght Universal Grain Bin has walls of
high tensile, flexible galvanized steel mesh
lined with rot-proofed hessian. The central
ventilating tube and porous bin wall allow
free circulation of air around and through the
grain, keeping it in first-class condition. The
galvanized steel sheet surround is also rodent-
proof. Fill in coupon below for complete
information.
JOHN LYSA6HT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle
Protect seed grain, small quantities of feed wheat in a LYSAGHT small
capacity silo! Shown at left is a typical Lysaght 250 bushel elevated
silo that affords ideal long-term storage with complete safety for seed
and'feed wheat. Other popular sizes are 200 and 500 bushels. Lysaght
Silos are easily erected, permanent, rodent-proof and weatherproof.
(S)
o.
IYSAGHT RURAL PRODUCTS The
to Successful Modern Farming
To John Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited
(City)
Note: N.S.W. enquiries should be directed to John
Lysaght (Australia) Pty. Limited, Newcastle Works,
Newcastle. In other States please refer your enquiry
to the office of John Lysaght (Australia) Pty,
Limited in your State.
I am especially interested in:
LONG TERM FODDER STORAGE £3
SHORT TERM OR ‘BULK HANDLING* Q
WATER STORAGE Q
(Please tick the square opposite the unit you are most
interested in)
Phase send me details of the following Lysaght Pre-
Crain Augers (Ver.) 0
NAME OF PROPERTY ROUTE OR RMB No.
DISTRICT STATE -
B4CC


start the day right!
'■
■***>■.
VJUOtH 0
FA
JSfSIC
s #Ti**
QUEENSLAND
INSURANCE
Co. Ltd.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE &
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies
throughout the World.
‘Western’ Protestant Churches
than with Rome.
“Pius XI carefully and suc-
cessfully evolved the idea of a
wide freedom of oriental rites
within the Roman Church.
But he died in 1939. Pius
XII pursued his predecessor’s
policy, but it looks as though
John XXIII is bent on tighten-
ing-up the varieties of ritual
permitted, in the revision of
Canon Law which will be the
main business of the Oecumeni-
cal Council.
“One has never been able to
exclude a modus vivendi be-
tween the Vatican and the
Kremlin. It is the kind of
thing that grips the attention
of Jesuit politicians, but always
ad majorem Dei gloriam —to
the greater glory of God.”
“Perhaps,” the same writer
concludes, “the operative
criterion in Vatican foreign
policy—to come to the best
available terms with the win-
ning side—will still dictate the
course.
“Thus, if, by any stretch of
the imagination, the Summit
Meetings were to end in some
kind of agreement about Ger-
many and usher-in a foresee-
able period of peace and con-
solidation, the possibility of
Vatican-Kremlin relations
might be reopened.
“For the moment there is
nothing new on this front ex-
cept for quite unreliable rumors
of Jesuit journeys to Moscow
and other hints put out in the
Italian Communist press."
Official Soviet Film
/Commenting on the official-
Soviet’ film of Premier
Khrushchev’s U.S. tour —lately
shown “to selected groups at
the Soviet Embassy in Washing-
ton’’ —the New York “Herald
Tribune” notes without sur-
prise that it presents the U.S.
“in a less than heroic light’’:
“One would hardly have ex-
pected Russian propagandists
to focus on the vigor of Ameri-
can industrial complexes, the
towering New York skyline,
vast housing - developments,
automobile - clogged highways,
displays of an uncensored press.
“But neither was it necessary
for the Red film-makers to go
"Algemeen Handetsblad.”
FELLOW-FEELING FOR COLONIALISM.
(The litter-bearers are labelled with the names of the
Soviet satellites .)
out of their way to depict
American policemen as being,
in the words of the ‘Herald
Tribune’s’ Warren Rogers, jnr.,
‘the roughest, meanest enemy
of the people since Czar
Nicholas’s Cossacks," deter-
mined to prevent the people
from demonstrating their affec-
tion for the beaming visitor.
“What the police were doing,
of course, was laboring mightily
to keep the Soviet leader from
harm, and his minions might
have had better grace than so
to distort the efforts of his
protectors.”
Japan and Germany
T}rom London “Economist":
“As Dr. Adenauer’s air-
craft was about to land in
Tokyo, a group of Right-wing
demonstrators unfurled
a banner reading ‘Welcome to
Adenauer,’ flanked with two
swastikas An indignant official
of the German Embassy tried
to pull it down, but was held
back by a Japanese diplomat.
The swastikas were then dis-
creetly veiled.
“The tale is evocative, for the
first visit by a post-war German
Chancellor to Japan inevitably
calls-up memories of a more
unsavory alliance, of which
Communist propaganda has
made good use. And while
these emotions provide no
direct guide to the present
status of the two countries, the
defeated Axis Powers have
problems in common that arise
from the past.
“Both West Germany and
Japan have enjoyed a remark-
able economic recovery since
the war; both feel threatened by
Communism from a front-line
position, and have become,
willy-nilly, allies of the demo-
cracies which defeated and
occupied them. Both have a
difficult task in gaining accept-
ance by and reconciliation with
these former enemies.
“For Japan these political
difficulties are aggravated by a
special economic problem. War
and the West’s experience of
Japanese competition in the
’thirties have left Japan some-
thing of an outcast in world
trade. It needs outlets for its
exports in Western countries,
and it still does not play the
valuable part in regional-
development schemes in South-
east Asia which it could play.
“Something of the common-
market spirit might usefully be
applied to that part of the
world. Both needs, however,
are far from fully acknow-
ledged by Western countries,
and West Germany might play
a useful part in helping Japan
to gain acceptance. Unlike
Britain, it already gives Japan
most-favored-nation treatment!
under the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade, and Dr.
Adenauer has evidently pro-
mised to do what he can to
see that the European Econo-
mic Community, too, treats
Japan liberally.
“In the new nine-nation
group of industrial countries
which is trying to develop, a
joint-aid effort, Japan and West
Germany are the two nations
with the greatest untapped re-
sources. That may give them
a new importance in the
Western effort to help the un-
committed world."
Writing on the same subject
in London “Time and Tide,"
E. Heskell Smith notes that
Japan’s Prime Minister, “Mr.
Kishi, faces the same problem
in Asia as Dr. Adenauer in
Europe. He knows that the
bitter war memories of
thousands pan easily be in-
flamed once more, and that
fear of low-priced Japanese
trade-competition can be re-
vived. Mr. Kishi's trip through
Asia and the determination of
his Government to pay repara-
tions to the countries concerned
has, however, done much to
bring a new unity in the Far
East. The new Japan-United
States Security Pact was a blow
to Common st ambitions, as
was evident from the outcry it
evoked.
“Mr. Khrushchev, no less
than his predecessor Stalin,
fears the two great industrial
Powers on his flanks, and will
use every strategy to neutralise
them and eventually to draw
them into the Communist orbit.
He calculates that the pro-
Western Mr. Kishi and Dr.
Adenauer cannot be there in-
definitely. Now is the time,
therefore, for the West to use
every opportunity to bind
Japan and Germany to the
democratic world, and to forge
indestructible links while men
of goodwill are still in office.”


The A ristocrat of Scottish Whiskies
r- ■
MONISH S
Specter/
SCOTCH WHISKY
j? Obtainable Leading Hotels and Clubs
DISTRIBUTORS
ELDER.SMITH & CO.,LIMITED
9-11 O'CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
Cars in Russia
/Commenting on recent agree-
s ments by which Russian-
made cars will soon be exported
in small numbers to both the
U.K. and the U.S., London
“Financial Times” notes that
“the Soviet motor-industry—at
least as far as passenger-cars
are concerned—is not one of
the sectors of the economy
which have been progressing at
such a spectacular rate* in
recent years. To a consider-
able extent this reflects Mr.
Khrushchev’s views on the
future of the passenger-car in
Russia”:
“Just after his return from
the U.S. last year, Mr. Khrush-
chev was quoted by Radio
Moscow as saying: ‘. . .
it is not our aim to compete
with the Americans in the pro-
duction of vast numbers of
cars. In our country cars will
be used more rationally than
in America. Taxi-pools will
be widely developed where
people will obtain cars when
they need them. Why should
one rack one’s brains over
where to put the car, why be
bothered with it?’
“Mr. Khrushchev’s ideas on
this subject have not gone un-
challenged. In one published
article an engineer from Lenin-
grad, Papkovsky, attacked the
higher class of Soviet cars (like
the Chaika and the Zil III) for
having too much cubic capa-
city, too many expensive and
unnecessary gadgets, too great
a weight, and for being too ex-
pensive both to buy and
operate.
“But action is already being
taken along the lines which Mr.
Khrushchev indicated. ‘Sched-
uled’ taxi-services have already
begun in Moscow and T.iflis
and are to be extended. Under
this system a passenger pays
between 1 and 4 roubles ac-
cording to the distance he
wishes to travel and is allowed
to have a certain amount of
baggage.'
“At the same time, there has
been rapid development in the
car-hire business. Cars can be
hired by the hour, although not
for more than one month at a
time. A deposit has to be paid
for the hire of the car, and total
costs are reported to be 39
roubles per 60 miles.
“Recent events in Russia in-
dicate, however, that the desire
to own one’s own car is a
strong one. ' There was, for
example, a report recently of
an unofficial but powerful com-
mittee in Moscow which was
manipulating sales of the Volga
“YOU CAN GO STRAIGHT IN—PASSES ARE
SUSPENDED FOR THE MOMENT.”
(London “Spectator’s” cartoon comment an the South African
Government’s suspension of its pass-laws, following the Negro
demonstrations against them .)
[a 2.5-litre model] and Mosk-
vich [1.36-litre].
"Then at the end of Febru-
ary the Moscow Executive
Committee was reported to
have approved designs for new
garages which were to be built
‘collectively’ by owners living
nearby. All this does show
that Russians generally would
iike to have their own cars, and
those earning less than others
want to see the introduction on
a large scale of a moderately
priced baby car.”
Dragnet Digest
Walter Lippmann, in N.Y.
“H era l d Tribune”: “The
Western position in Berlin is
not likely to grow stronger. It
is already fragile and precari-
ous. It will become more so
the more the people of West
Berlin realise that they are not
likely to see in their lifetime the
liberation of West Berlin from
the military trap in which it
lies, and its restoration as the
capital of a united Germany.
“Our [U.S.] position in West
Berlin, like so many of our
bases overseas, is a wasting
asset. If it is a grave mistake
to negotiate except from a posi-
tion of strength, it is also a
grave mistake not to negotiate
while you still have real
strength from which to negoti-
ate.”
* * *
London “New Statesman s”
diarist: “Among the Russian
and other exiles living in Paris,
there has been, I gather, a lot
of strong feeling about those
who were sent to Corsica for
the Khrushchev visit. It was a
terrible lowering of status to
be left out. Grand Dukes sat
with their heads in their hands
for hours on end, grieving at
having sunk so low that the
French police-authorities just
did not care whether or not
they were in Paris at the same
time as Mr. Khrushchev.
Counts and anarchists went to
their habitual cafe tables with
the air of men who, through no
fault of their own, had come
down in the world. Some, it
is said, actually disappeared,
and let it be put around that
they had been sent to Corsica.
As for the ones who actually
have been sent there —they are
expected to give themselves
terrific airs when they return.”
* * *
Manchester “G uardi a n’
special article: “Hie French
Community, with France domi-
nating an ensemble in which
none of its African members
enjoyed independence, is
rapidly changing into an as-
sociation of independent States
very much on the lines of the
British Commonwealth with
one major difference: relations
will be thoroughly defined by
treaty, and not left to usage,
convention and circumstance.
It will be a ‘Commonwealth a
la fran9aise.’ ”
* * *
C. L. Sulzberger, in “New
York Times”: “Clearly Europe
will remain ideologically
divided for many years to
come. There is no escape from
this uncomfortable schism ex-
cept the war nobody wants.
If one accepts this truth, there
really isn't any compelling
reason why, as long as Ger-
many itself remains divided in
this Europe, such a division
should not continue microcos-
mically in Berlin. This is
reality—and no secret to either
East or West.”


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A344,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Herb tried to forget that
roar.
“Yeah. Sure Herb,” the
circus owner said drily. “I was
sayin’ before —”
The sound of running feet
stopped him and somebody
yelled, breathlessly: “Hey,
boss! Quick, it’s Caesar. He
got outa the cage!”
TT exploded in the night air
like a grenade.
“Get the boys after him,
fast,” Ernie snapped.
The man plunged behind a
tent.
Ernie’s words floated back
to them as he spun around and
ran towards the caravan:
“Those pole-lights are gonna
be a lot of help.”
He disappeared inside and
when he returned an instant
later he was slipping a revolver
into the waist of his breeches.
They heard him cursing the
high-heeled boots, as he passed
them.
Then they heard pandemo-
nium increasing as the word
of the escaped lion spread.
Screams and hoarse yells
blasted the quiet Of a few
moments before. Men and
women ran, aimlessly shouting
and waving their arms. There
was a sound of tearing canvas.
A woman screamed and ran
half-dressed from a tent, point-
ing and yelling, hysterically:
“In there! In there!”
She collapsed on the ground,
sobbing. Somebody went to
help her. Teal’s men ran to-
ward the tent, dragging two
great nets.
Suddenly, there was a
stunned silence. Eddie spun
around: “Herb, there’s no
lights! ”'
Already Herb was kicking
the starter. The engine roared
and Herb rammed the gear-
stick into low. He revved the
engine, let the clutch in and
reefed hard on the wheel.
The back of the truck bucked
around in a dizzy arc, "the rear
wheels skidding madly. Then
they were roaring back the way
they had come. Eddie could
barely hear the renewed shouts
and yells of the people because
Herb was blaring the horn con-
tinuously. He saw the stupefied
fright on a child’s face, caught
in the glare of the headlamps.
Herb swerved violently.
Eddie thought they were going
to roll" and braced himself for
it. But Herb swung the wheel
again. The back tyres skidded
easily on the grass and the big
utility stayed upright.
There was no need for either
to guess what had happened.
A total blackout meant that all
three phases had gone. The
only three fuses that hadn't
been checked and renewed were
the three primary fuses on the
main pole. They had been left
for the council to do in the
morning before the big load
was drawn by the three-phase
motors.
Eddie saw the main pole
ahead, had the door open, and
was on the ground before the
truck had stopped. Three strides
took him to the back of the
utility. He swung on the end
of the heavy ladder and let it
slide down the iron rack. Herb
got there in time to grab the
other end coming off the truck.
Together they hoisted the
ladder up the pole.
Eddie ran back to the truck,
dragged pliers and screwdriver
out of his tool-box, snatched
up a short length of seven-
strand earth-wire and was half-
way up the ladder when Herb
yelled, “Come back and get
a line-belt!”
T}ddie smiled grimly as he
hauled himself up further.
He could hear Herb still mut-
tering something about “a
young fool breaking his neck,”
when he reached the top.
Two sets of three-phase
“We cant be TOO far from Australia .”
lines on two separate crossarms
fed the whole showgrounds,
and Eddie knew that the big
reflectors on the poles and all
the show-people’s tents were fed
from the top set. He made out
the three blobs that were the
primary fuses, and reached up
for the first one.
It was hot. He knew it
would be, but it came out with-
out any trouble, and he
breathed his relief when he saw
the little globules of copper on
top of the wedge. Overloaded,
he thought. Bad business, but
it could have been worse.
Three strands of earth-wire
should be enough. Working
swiftly, he had two done before
he realised he couldn’t reach
the third from where he was.
He looked down to see how
many rungs of ladder were left.
There were two.
He noticed that the reflectors
on the pole hadn’t come on yet,
and he could just make out
Herb’s form in the darkness.
This area was on that third
fuse and he had to go higher
to reach it. That meant edging
practically the whole length of
his body between two of the
wires of the bottom set. They
weren’t spaced far enough apart
to permit the passage of the
width of his shoulders, so he
would have to turn side-on to
the ladder. He didn’t care to
think of his chances if he
touched tfoth wires.
For an instant he hesitated.
The panic below, which be-
fore was only something vague,
now came to him clearly.
Somewhere close-by he heard
the high-pitched scream of a
woman, and the loud cries of
a frightened child for its
mother.
Grimly, he hugged the pole
with his left arm and went up
another rung. Not far enough.
One more rung would do it;
very carefully he went up. With
his right hand he slipped the
fuse-wedge out. His left arm
still around the pole, he re-
loaded the fuse and rammed it
home again. The two big 500-
watt lamps on the pole came
on and Eddie saw Herb, face
upturned, standing at the foot
of the ladder.
His blood went cold.
Ten yards behind Herb the
lion was pawing the ground
with great, savage sweeps.
Eddie pointed and Herb
whirled. The lion began to
move slowly towards Herb.
“Run for it, Herb!” Eddie
yelled, and eased himself down
between the wires.
He was bringing his arms


Faiffi In ihc
Fnlurt
*
Forty-five years have passed since the landing
of Australian and New Zealand troops at Gallipoli,
and next Monday, April 25, we will be observing
another Anzac Day.
This is the day in our national calendar on
which the corporate spirit of Australians stands
proclaimed in a unity that was formed in sacrifice.
Differences of creed and of civil allegiance melt in
the recollection that men of all beliefs died and
suffered side by side in our country’s cause.
The Anzac landing is the point of heroism on
which the commemoration rightly and historically
centres. But Anzac Day is essentially an occasion
for honouring every act of gallantry that has ever
been performed in Australia’s active service, with
particular reverence to the memory of those who
gave their lives.
It allows us to pay homage to men and women
of other campaigns. Some of them —those who
fought in Korea, for instance—had not been born
in 1915. To those of us who have spanned all of
those years, the day will bring the revival of
treasured memories.
The personal approach, proud or sorrowful,
merges in the fact that the spirit of Anzac lives on
timelessly. It will continue to live long after the
generation that saw its awakening have themselves
passed out of sight.
And so I believe we should be directing the
minds of our young people more and more to what
Anzac means as a symbol of the sacrifice that all
high service to our country demands, in everyday
pursuits far removed from war.
The storming of a gun-guarded shore in Asia
Minor is very much more than £ story of heroic
adventure. It is part of us; part of that which will
make Australia a still stronger and more vital force
in this living world.
Since patriotism is for more than a day, or a
century of days, the true observance of Anzac Day
requires that we shall carry its spirit of devoted
service into every hour of our lives.
Anzac Day, 1960.
his tummy and shook him
about a bit in case something
might fall out of him. Then
she put him on the scales, and
gasped. Ernie had gained six
pounds in a week, though he
still looked as lean as ever!
Ernie’s little secret consisted
of the mighty brass ashtrays
we all had, made from the cases
of 25-pounder shells. He had
one of these wedged in each
armpit, and had only to keep
his elbows close to his sides,
standing in a firm and soldierly
manner at attention, to retain
them in position and to defy
detection.
Come, naturally, were philo-
sophical about it when
Aunty Sal had fed them into
rotundity, and took great pride
in their excessive curves and
bulges. These craved to be-
come the fattest in the ward,
and there were some exciting
struggles for the honor, with
favorites going under to whip-
pety-looking types who had
crept up on them, and fine, fat
characters often running neck-
and - neck (or tummy - and-
tummy) for weeks on end.
For instance, Jack and an-
other battled grimly around the
13st.-mark for a long time,
beating each other by mere
half-pounds and even less.
Jack was a poor loser, in the
long run, though.
“Thirteen-three! ” said the
other, proudly, as he stepped
off the scales one Saturday
morning. “It took you all
your time to make thirteen.
I’m the fattest man in the
ward.”
“Bah!” said Jack, nastily.
“What about Leo, in Bed 18?
He’s the heaviest man around
here.”
Leo was an ex-miner, about
7ft. tall and so broad that he
looked almost stumpy. He’d
been reduced by the wog to a
mere 16st. or so when he came
to hospital, but had responded
like magic to Aunty’s forced-
feeding programme. What he
weighed now came under the
Official Secrets Act, but it was
enormous. Until Jack’s un-
sporting reminder, nobody had
even thought of Leo in Connec-
tion with weight-competitions.
It would have been like worry-
ing about the weight of Ayers
Rock, and the other man was
keenly aware of this.
“He ain’t in this,” he snorted,
indignantly. “Anyway, that
ain’t fat, it’s only muscle!”
The ward was strongly on
his side in that clinching line
of debate, and he was given the
belt. To round the story off
properly Jack should have
worried so much about his own
caddishness that he got thin
again. But he didn’t; and
now, well out of the hospital
and back to his normal life, he
would dearly like to,* meet the
other again, and see if that
worthy can match-up to his
present thirteen-stone-five.
Nearly all those who filled
the ward beds then are now
back at home and at work,
thanks to modern drugs, good
treatment and, no doubt, Aun-
ty’s exuberant ideas about
tucker. For t.b. hardly ever
kills anybody any more, and
the places where they treat it
are no longer gloomy institu-
tions where unhappy men
wheeze their lives away.
And because of all this, no
doubt, the new crop of patients
are still arguing and worrying
about weight, and still putting
over the same old tricks that
keep hospital life from getting
too dull and make it very lively
for unsuspecting Sisters.
down when his elbow brushed
the wires. Something shot
through him from arm to arm.
His reflexes threw him back-
wards.
Then he was falling. Vaguely
he heard Herb’s yell, followed
closely by the crack of a
revolver. He didn’t hear the
second shot.
Five seconds later he was
dead; crumpled and motion-
less on the grass.
Shakily, Herb heaved the
dead lion off his chest and got
to his feet. He still wasn’t
quite sure what had happened.
He dusted himself, wiped some
blood from his cheek and,
skirting the carcass of the lion,
limped over to Eddie’s body.
The head was at an odd angle
to the body, and Herb knew
why.
People began to gather
round, but Herb just stood
there staring.
Someone in the crowd said,
“The bloody fool, he wasn’t
wearing a line-belt.”
Herb wondered, uneasily,
who was going to tell Eddie’s
mother.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Dulhuntys
Sir Gilbert Murray’s remarks
about “Mr. Dulhunty” (B.
30/3/’6O) are particularly in-
teresting in view of the recent
publication of The Dulhunty
Papers (Wentworth Press).
The Dulhunty to whom
Murray refers would be Law-
rence Vance Dulhunty, who
in 1828 was appointed Assist-
ant Surveyor of Roads and
Bridges. While his brothers,
Robert and Dr. John, were
popular among settlers and
convicts alike, Lawrence was
detested. He was. renowned
for his ability to get twice as
much work out of a chain-gang
as anyone else.
Press-accounts of the ill-
treatment of Lawrence Dul-
hunty by the bushranger
McNamara and his gang are
in line with Murray’s story that
Dulhunty was particularly
knowledgeable about the des-
cendants of convicts, and on
one occasion when some
eminent person who had come
to dinner said pleasantly, “I
think I saw you standing in the
drive, Mr. Dulhunty,” he
replied, “You did. When a
man’s carriage splashes me
with mud I always stop and
try to recollect what his father
was lagged for.”
Murray's remark that Dul-
hunty was like an Irishman
from Thackeray, descended
from ancient kings, was no
idle observation. The Dulhunty
Papers takes us back 3000
years to the Milesian kings of
Ireland, of whom the first
O’Carroll was the fabled scion.
From the O’Carroll stock came
the first Baron of Ely, and
from the race of Ely O’Carroll
stemmed the family of O’Dul-
chonta, which being anglicised
became Dulhunty.
John Dulhunty, Surgeon
Superintendent of the convict
ship Sesostris, the father of
Lawrence, stamped the O’Car-
roll coat-of-arms on his per-
sonal effects —an appropriation
we find confirmed more than a
century later by the Chief
Herald of Ireland. The ancient
legend ran that the Dulhuntys
stemmed from Heber, one of
the eight sons of Milesius,
while the Murrays came from
Heremon, another son. Murray
remarks that Dulhunty had a
natural contempt for rich
people of low birth and
manners.
Gilbert Murray is writing of
the year 1870. Lawrence Dul-
hunty died, a bachelor of 68,
on October 23, 1871 in the
Australian Club. This is the
first time I have been aware
that he had lived for some years
at Yarralumla before his death,
though he had often stayed
there in his more prosperous y
days, when Terence Murray's
first wife, Mary Gibbes, a
daughter of Colonel Gibbes
“Two-four-six-eight..."
(Collector of Customs) was still
alive.
Mary was a sister of Eliza
Gibbes, who had married
Lawrence Dulhunty’s brother
Robert. The fact that he still
regarded Yarralumla as his
home after Terence had re-
married bears-out the reports
by Lewis Lett, in Sir Hubert
Murray of Papua (Collins,
1949), that the second Mrs,
Murray (who had been gover-
ness to Mary Gibbes's children
before she married Terence)
took on all the family burdens
and did not discriminate be-
tween the children, but earned
the warm affection of them all.
Hubert Murray was on par-
ticularly good terms with his
foster-brother, sisters and
cousins. Gilbert says Dulhunty
“had stately manners, but must
have been an anxiety to my
mother.”
Gilbert was only four years
old at the time of which he is
writing, so his recollections
are remarkable. The only time
he goes a little astray is in his
remark that Lawrence Dul-
hunty’s “temporary financial
embarrassment” was the nor-
mal —and, indeed, the inten-
tional-result of the Penal
Laws on the Catholic gentry.
The Dulhuntys had for some
generations belonged to the
Church of England. Probably
they were among those Irish
who, historians tell us, in the
reigns of the Henrys and
Edwards, were compelled to
anglicise their names and em-
brace the Protestant religion,
for otherwise they were liable
to forfeit their estates and be
punished as Irish enemies.
Terence Murray was a
Catholic, but after his marriage
to Mary Gibbes declared him-
self to be “non-sectarian.”
Lawrence Dulhunty had been
appointed a magistrate of the
Wellington Valley in 1837 at a
salary of £365 a year. His last
appointment was Police Magis-
trate at Carcoar, which he held
until a few years before his
death.
At one time the Dulhunty
brothers owned 14 properties
west of the Darling and were
considered wealthy men. S.M.
Mowle had remarked: “The
Dulhuntys were substantial
friends to me, for they in-
variably sent me to school with
half-crowns in my pocket.”
Lawrence’s financial em-
barrassment, referred to by
Murray, was more likely due
to the drought and depression
of the 1840’s, in which all the
family lost control of their
properties, than to his retire-
ment from office.
Lawrence Dulhunty’s brother
Robert was the original pioneer
of the Dubbo district, which
he named. A highly respected
and well-liked man, he died at
the age of 51. Dulhuntys who
are at present living in Aus-
tralia are descended from him.
In view of the picture Gilbert
Murray presents of Lawrence
—confirmed in the Dulhunty
Papers—they will be glad they
are not descended from him;
though Murray’s picture of
him, a little exhilarated, sitting'
on the stairs wanting to save
“The Emperor,” is more human
than any I had previously seen
of him. Beryl Dulhunty
(N.S.W.).
University Failures
The disclosure by the Vice-
Chancellor of Melbourne Uni-
versity, Sir George Paton, that
800 students —nearly one-tenth
of the total of 8500 —failed in
every subject at the last annual
examinations is disquieting
both for ihose contemplating
a university-course arid for tax-
payers, who, to a large extent,
foot the bill for universities.
In fairness to Melbourne
University the Vice-Chancellor
noted that its failure-rate is
about average for Australian
universities. But unfortunately,
he had to admit, it is “much
higher than in Britain.” And
although it is anticipated that
the quota-system—now operat-
ing for almost every faculty —
will tend to raise the pass-
rate, the chances of future
improvement are hardly a
matter for rejoicing.
The community needs more
hig h 1 y-educated men and
women than it’s now produc-
ing, and the quota-system is
merely an expedient forced
upon the University by sheer
lack of funds, staff and facili-
ties.
As Sir George Paton stated,
British universities have fewer
failures because they apply
higher entrance-standards and
have more staff and facilities.
Melbourne University would
have less failures in first-year,
he said, if more informal teach-
ing could be introduced, but
there just wasn’t enough money


ARTHRITIS
Send for FREE LITERA-
TURE containing VALUABLE
INFORMATION, Helpful Ad-
vice and PROOF of how to
treat your condition at low
cost with an effective
Natural formula which
lias achieved Australia cvide
success. Hundreds of grateful
letters received.
Four weeks’ course costs only
£1 Post Free,
STRATTONS
RHEUMATIC SERVICE,
7 Howard St., PERTH, W.A.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager (or Australia.
to employ the extra staff re-
quired.
It is true that of the 800 who
failed at Melbourne last year,
about 500 have been given an-
other chance to continue their
courses; but this must mean
less room for newcomers, and
the money contributed last
year in respect of the entire 800
has shown no worth-while
result.
The old adage about “spoil-
ing the ship for a ha’porth of
tar” is apposite here: if our
universities are understaffed
and underequipped by British
standards, surely adequate
funds should be made available
to enable them to reduce loss,
through avoidable failures, to
a minimum.— Doynest (Vic.).
Vote for Milk Board?
I was amazed recently to
find that dairyfarmers in two
cities in southern N.S.W. seem
to have plumped for Milk
Board control in their areas.
Ructions began in Goul-
burn when a Bega milk-
company applied to the city
council for a licence to sell
milk in that town. Goulburn
is now supplied by only one
dairy-company, which gets all
its milk from local dairymen
but which imposes on them
one or two “block” days each
week. On such days the com-
pany buys milk from the pro-
ducers at less than half the
regular price.
Despite this arrangement,
local dairymen apparently felt
that it was better to stick with
the known devil. They formed
a producers’ association and
invited the Milk Board to come
in and look Goulburn over.
The dairy-company, too —or
at least some of its top execu-
tives —seemed to favor Milk
Board control. They appar-
ently felt it would keep Bega
out.
After Milk Board chairman
Ferguson had visited Goulburn,
council voted by only a bare
majority against the Milk
Board. , Actually, the matter
has not been finally decided
yet, and a further attempt may
be made to bring-in board con-
trol.
But, as one Goulburn aider-
man said in council, once the
Milk Board comes into a place
it can’t be voted out again by
council or by majority decision
—it simply has to be put up
with.
Bega has not yet begun to
sell in Goulburn, but has
offered to buy all “surplus”
milk from dairymen at full
price which might change
dairymen’s views about board
control.
A visitor to Goulburn soon
after the milk “crisis” was the
manager of a northern Vic-
torian dairy-company, L. R.
Scharp, who made an on-the-
spot investigation of the milk
position.
His interest lay in the fact
that his company was
“Frankly, I couldn't stand the dull uniformity of the
democratic system, where even the sheikhs have
only one wife."
threatened by the Milk Board’s
proposed entry into Wagga—♦
the board is due to take-over
there in a couple- of months.
His company is one of two
which sell in Wagga, but, if
standard Milk Board practice
is followed, only one “agency”
will be allowed. Scharp fears
that, the other being a local
company, his company will be
the one to go—though he
means to fight ttys in court, if
necessary. He thinks that it is
the local dairymen in Wagga
who have called-in the Milk
Board.
I can’t understand this atti-
tude on the part of a section
of primary-producers, all of
whom have been victims of
various sections of bureau-
cracy at different times, more
so perhaps than in the city.
There also seems to be too
much of a wish to restrict free
enterprise in these moves. —•
Keima (N.S.W.).
Defence
The article “Defence and Its
Critics” surely exaggerates the
influence of the Australian
Labor Party in setting public
opinion against efficient de-
fence (B. 30/3/’6O). Rather it
would seem from the facts that
the A.L.P. has more faithfully
reflected public opinion than
the other parties.
Certainly a Labor Govern-
ment was the first to introduce
compulsory military training.
From 1911 males aged from
12 to 26 had to register for
training. However, the response
wasn’t altogether encouraging.
From 1912 to 1914 the Federal
Government had to prosecute
nearly 28,000 eligible persons
for failing to register for mili-
tary training. Less than half
the boys eligible in the second
year of the scheme registered
for service by the due date.
The question of compulsory
overseas service, so bitterly de-
bated in 1916-17, was, of
course, a different matter.
However, the Labor party, in
opposing this kind of con-
scription, certainly mirrored
public opinion—as the results
of the two referendums indi-
cated. A majority voted “No”
on both occasions.
What is even more signifi-
cant is that, although a
majority of members of the
A.I.F. voted “Yes” in both
referendums, the proportion of
“Yes” to “No” votes was only
7 to 5 in the first referendum
and 10 to 9 in the second.
Even without conscription,
we sent 330,000 men overseas
and lost 60,000 of them—a
fair effort for a nation of less
'than five million people.
It is doubtful whether the
A.L.P.’s “resistant attitude to
military training” proved
“profitable in votes.” In the
21 years between the two
world wars Federal Labor
held power for less than three
years (1929-1932) —scarcely a
successful record of profitable
vote-catching.
The sorry state of our
peace-time soldiering surely
results from two factors: first,
the average Australian’s dislike
of regimentation except when
it’s essential —that is, when
Australia is at war; second,
the complete lack of stream-
lined efficiency and imagina-
tion displayed by those who
have run our peace-time
Army in the past.
The latter is not so apparent
in war-time, but every old
soldier has his battery of
anecdotes about red-tape,
inefficiency and futile activities.
As an example of lack of
imagination, compare the
present military cadets—their
heavy boots and rifles,
emphasis on drill and lack of
personal goals—with a boys’
organisation based on psycho-
logically sound principles, such


as the Boy Scouts, which was
founded by a soldier with a
great deal of imagination.
Finally, a word on behalf of
the “rebellious Irish.” If all
those with Irish names had
dropped out of the A.I.F.
artillery-unit with which I
served it would scarcely have
made any difference to the
number of our commissioned
officers, but our establishment
of n.c.o.s would have dropped
by at least half. D. D.
(N.S.W.).
Horses to the States
What bad news it is that
Tulloch is likely to go to
America!
No one can deny an owner’s
right to do as he wishes with
his horse, but one would have
thought that the interests of
Australian racing would have
had strong influence on E. A.
Haley and Tommy Smith,
owner and trainer of Tulloch;
racing-clubs in Sydney and
Melbourne are certainly going
to be heavy losers by the
absence of the champion from
their spring meetings.
The traffic to America of
our best horses is becoming
altogether too heavy. Tulloch,
in this writer’s view; ranks with
Carbine and Phar Lap as one
of the three best horses ever
to grace Australian tracks.
Tulloch ’s departure will mean
that all three were sent abroad.
—Vac (Vic.).
In Darkest Africa
A forerunner of the events
which are disturbing us all,
particularly Sydney University
students and New England
University professors, is
described by Don Taylor,
editor of the New Common-
wealth,” in his able book The
Years of Challenge :
There had been an organised and
surprisingly successful boycott ot
European goods as a protest against
rising prices.... A mob seemed
bent on trouble. Fearing an assault
on Government House the police
[“a small detachment under a
British officer”] opened fire. The
news was brought back to the
capital, and at once the mob took-
over. Looting, arson and rioting
swept through all the major towns,
and a st “" ned ““"W finall! '
returned to a semblance of nor-
mality to find that 290 people had
lost their lives, whilst 230 had
received severe injuries.
In South Africa? No; in
“the Gold Coast, that cherished
model of British colonies.”
As sequel, the British more-
or-less gracefully retired, and
the Gold Coast now rejoices in
a black dictatorship, though the
rejoicings are apt to take such
forms-as “a wave of violence
and murder in Ashanti” (Mr.
Taylor again).
The whites in South Africa —
whose ancestors were there
before the Bantu came down
from Central Africa, leaving a
trail of massacre and desola-
tion in their wake (even our
“Go on, Jacky, give him a drink”
Pink professors should know
these facts of history)—are
determined not to surrender
their country and its destinies
to nine-million blacks at best
only recently, and in times of
excitement doubtfully, re-
deemed from savagery. Can
we, with our White Australia
policy, fairly blame them? —D.
Empson (N.S.W.).
Data Unearthed
James Mahoney’s item on
buried historical data (B.
6/4/’6O) prompts me to let
him know that the N.S.W.
branches of the Country
Women’s Association are com-
peting for a prize for the best
community-history, results of
which will be announced
during the State annual con-
ference in Sydney (April 26-
29). All entries are now in
the hands of the C.W.A. in
Sydney.
Suggested scope of the com-
petition includes history of
community, pioneer settlement,
historic homes, buildings,
stories and local legends of
placenames, etc. A work may
be compiled by one member,
but each member is asked to
contribute, and all informa-
tion must be authentic —dates
and names checked.
Entries should thus provide
a wealth of detail regarding
early history of the State.—
B. Stevenson (N.S.W.).
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 587
Across
I—Unlucky1—Unlucky to follow a parent dog Sam backed before the
quarrel. (7)
4 —Perhaps the p.m. will be sunnier in the cave? (7)
B—Some shingle given by a hairdresser who scavenges. (11)
10— Nothing in the Police Department takes this case in
Botany. (3)
11— Cultivate money in this. (4)
12 — A conductor needed for this blitz. (9)
15 — Coin’s tavern free from sin. (8)
16 — Go from good acknowledgments
from the indebted offensive. (6)
18 —As well as the love of
Jolson. (4)
20 —Produce an egg not too nice to
eat when Roo and Barney went
to Melbourne. (3-3)
23 — Scoundrel who puts the end girl
in confusion. (9)
24 — Products found in the silo. (4)
26—Mount one essay, and write an
article on the islands. (3)
28— Good reasons for acting in
carnival areas. (11)
29 One shall not and I coast. (7)
30 — Fay sits b’adly to give content-
ment. (7)
Down
1 — A moment beside Dick. (4)
2 Jackeroo suggests where to stop
an innings. (7, 4)
3 Trifling fish to measure. (8)
4 Morning to sack East for round-
about phraseology. (6)
5 A red nut could become free
from tax. (7)
6 A circuit chum is upset. (3)
7 Island Moslem who owns an
automobile is nuts. (10)
9 —Male republican licking about a
spiral. (5)
13— Press office work's particles of
metal. (4, 7)
14 — Maid upset a can on a
river. (10)
17 —Hussies give guarantees the
sack. (8)
19 —A party-frock which keeps Sally
cool? (7)
21 — Moulding ducks around a small
volume. (5)
22 — This makes a vessel edge-in over
one Italian city. (6)
25 —Pays for this snaky article on
some secret agent. (4)
27—Tree has changed. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 586


T raxca vator handles
a hot problem!
Here is a CAT 977 Traxcavator, owned by
Brambles Southern Transport Pty. Ltd.,
loading molten slag from an open hearth
furnace at Port Kembla. The "977- replaced
rail equipment and, in addition, is used for
general utility and loading work around the
plant.
Cat-built Traxcavators are famous for their all-round working ability. They are
extensively employed in construction, mining, manufacturing and countless other
industries throughout the world.
There are many reasons why these machines have received such wide acceptance on so
many types of jobs. But the main reason is their ability to outproduce and outlast
similar machines of equivalent size and horsepower. Consider the superior features
incorporated into the CAT Traxcavator. Ask your W & J representative to show you
how one of these machines will fit your production requirements by doing more work,
better, and at a lower cost,
I
s
5f
m
m
a
ss
SI
SI
m
i
Hi
tes*i
3SSJkW
-3J£-
CATERPILLAR
‘CATERPILLAR, CAT and TRACAVATOR arc Registered Trademarks
el Caterpillar Tractor Co., U.S.A.
The right construction for high production.
The Traxcavator is not just a tractor with a
bucket, but a machine designed from tha
tracks up for heavy loading and excavating
duty.'lt features a one piece, all welded main
frame which provides rigid support and high
load carrying capacity. Digging loads and
stresses are transferred directly to the heavy
box section track roller frames. This pre-
vents harmful strain to the power train and
other components, ensures longer life and tha
least maintenance.
Throo models from 52 to 100 h.p.
and \Va to 2Va cubic yards capacity.
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
WJ224A.115
YEARS A
CATERPILLAR
DEALER ,
Head Office: Mitchell Road, Alexandria, Sydney. 'Phone: LA 6631.
Brwkhes at: Gunnedah, 'phone 326; Parkes, 'phone 1266; Wagga, 'phone
8237;155vth Grafton, 'phone 392; Inverell, 'phone 1400; Cooma, 'phone 657/
mm, 'pfioni 208,
GENERAL SALES MANAGER: Mr. S. King—'Phone 57 7906.
NORTHERN SALES MANAGER: Mr. D. Coleman—after hours: WJ 3647.
SOUTHERN SALES MANAGER: Mr. C. Davidson—after hours: JF 5782.


Sheep raising on bleak,
snow-covered Marion
Island—looo miles south
of Sth. Africa, has
now been abandoned.
Since establishment in
1948 it has been found
that the Merino was
unsuitable, as wool
grew over its eyes thus
causing it to fall over
the cliffs, or get bogged
in the numerous
marshes. It was then
recommended that a
trial begin with an
open - faced Dormer
sheep. Unfortunately,
under the harsh weather
conditions experienced
lambs died at birth.
Graziers in Australia
know the value of
Elastrator, the blood-
less method of Castrat-
ing and Tailing. It
has been proven that
lambs or calves Cas-
trated and Tailed with
Elastrator are less
susceptible to diseases,
and suffer little or no
set-back associated with
old-fashioned methods.
More and more graziers
are using Elastrator —
why don’t you?
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BEEF A LA MODE
[From “I.H.G ”]
"Vro one will disagree with
Alison Bingle’s statement in
these pages that there are
in Australia huge areas suitable
for cattle which are still only
primitively developed, and that
good transport is essential for
the beef-cattle industry. But I
would like to add that existing
prehistoric methods of market-
ing beef-cattle should be
changed.
Bingle pointed to the cause
of existing primitive conditions
which emphasise to “anyone
interested in improving the
quality of our beef that only
animals with strong constitu-
tions, and never of the soft,
early-maturing type, can stand
up to long droving trips” for,
indeed, long journeys by rail,
road, or any combination of
all). He stated: “The main
marketing-centres for the cattle
which provide our beef are on
the seaboard, so the movement
of beef-cattle is largely depen-
dent upon efficient and econo-
mic rail-transport.”
What we must recognise is
that the main market for these
cattle when processed is the
United Kingdom. However,
the main meatworks are mostly
on the eastern seaboard. That
is the basic reason why it’s not
much good breeding early-
maturing baby-beef cattle in
the inland.
The seaboard meatworks
send their buyers into these
inland areas, where they negoti-
ate a price per head, usually
on the basis of delivery on hoof
to the nearest rail-point. Gener-
ally, therefore, the producers’
market is on the property.
The buyers, in their calcula-
tions and negotiations about
the price, take into considera-
tion the anticipated wastage in
weight and quality between “as
seen on properties” and “as
carcass on hooks” at seaboard
meatworks. It is between these
points that the great wastage
of weight and quality takes
place. This happens to such a
degree that you frequently hear
producers exclaim: “I could
never have recognised the cattle
at the meatworks as being the
same that left the property.”
This wastage or perishability
may be conservatively esti-
mated as follows:
1. Loss of weight, 601 b. to
801 b. a head.
2. Loss of first-quality beef
into lower grades, 2001 b. to
2501 b. a head.
3. Loss of cattle during
droving and transportation,
1.33 per cent, of the original
mob.
The cumulative effect of this
wastage converted to a value of
the cattle when prime on the
properties may well be between
20 per cent, and 25 per cent.
That is the sacrifice the pro-
ducer makes. In fact, this
wastage is a greater cost-factor
than the cost of transportation.
Now practically all these cattle
are exported as carcasses, the
majority to the United King-
dom.
It is known that Australia’s
northern areas can produce on
the properties beef-cattle fully
competitive with those from
Argentina. But if we are to
compete with Argentina we
must supply the U.K. with a
carcass superior to that pro-
duced by Argentina.
There are two ways in which
this can be done:
1. Export cattle fattened
near the coast, where transport-
distances are short and roads
and railways are reasonable.
Consume in our home-markets
cattle fattened inland.
2. Establish a number of in-
land abattoirs which will assure
the retention of prime condi-
tion and eliminate the present
wastage. Inland abattoirs will
achieve this most essential
objective, and also allow pro-
ducers to breed the “soft, early-
maturing type” which can be
slaughtered at 2-2} years of
age. In addition producers
will be able to keep their pro-
perties clear of that class of
cattle which have for so long
roamed there, because it was
uneconomic to send them to
the seaboard meatworks —at
least until the sudden appear-
ance of the unexpected “bone-
less-beef” market in America.
The life-span of the latter can-
not be assessed with any cer-
tainty.
Transport
Whatever the future, trans-
port is essential.
Alison Bingle suggests
modernised “efficient and econ-
omic rail-transport” and “good
ballasted roads.” The latter,
to assure smooth transport and
suit wet-weather conditions,
must be sealed. Touching on
air-transport, he states: “The
time may not be far distant
when big freighters like those
which can now move 100 or
more troops in one load may
make it possible for cattle to be
moved economically.” In refer-
ence to the “Air Beef” scheme
he comments: “The venture
solved a local problem, but can
have no wide economic value
without a permanent subsidy.”
There he has pointed to the
basic reason why there is no
network of suitable railways
and roads into our northern
and inland areas.
There is no transport-system
dependent on the movement of
live cattle (exports) and the
small imports of station-stores
that can operate without a
subsidy, direct or indirect.
Bingle advocates new and re-
vitalised railways, better and
stronger roads, and emphasises
efficient and economic opera-
tions. Economic to whom —
the producer or the nation? We
must remember that the rail-
system in Australia is losing
some £25 to £27 million a year.
Serving cattle-country, because
of the ratio of exports to im-
ports,' the vehicle-load factor
would not exceed 54 per cent.
At such a load-factor! and
given efficient vehicles, the
cost of rail- and road-transport
could not be below Id. to 4d.
respectively per ton mile.
But to allow these vehicle-
rates the Government will have
to construct the necessary high-
ways at costs which, if barest
essentials are to be met, must
represent tens of millions of
capital expenditure.
As in any business, the best
way to minimise the effect of
high capital-expenditure and
annual standing-charges is to
have a great volume of through-
put. Unfortunately this volume
of traffic is not and will not be
available for many years.
In a study undertaken in


sm
: w*
mi
m
v>o :
mmm
MS
i •'..
'' sNN - •> . ■
HADDON RIG
PREPARING
OUTSTANDING TEAM FOR
1960 SYDNEY SALES
“Better than ever” describes the Haddon
Rig Teams now being prepared for the
Macarthur Sesquicentenary Sheep Show and
the Sydney Ram Sales in June. Compared
with last year’s draft, more Stud rams will
be making the trip.
1960 opened in splendid style at Haddon
Rig. Two thousand eight hundred and
seventy-five ewes were sold for 25,515
guineas on 16th March at the first auction
sale ever held on the property. Sales of
Flock and selected rams were the highest in
the Stud’s 78 years; 3124 rams were delivered
during March.
The 1960 Walgett Ram Sales served to
emphasise why over 200 Studs and many
more flocks used Haddon Rig Blood. Four
Haddon Rig daughter Studs not only
averaged 83 guineas for their 51 rams, but
sold the four highest-priced rams as well.
As 15 Studs averaged 48| guineas for 174
rams, buyers showed a very strong prefer-
ence for this famous strain.
At the 1959 Sydney Ram Sales Haddon
Rig sold the top sire (£3885), as well as
securing the “best-ever” average for Studs
(£693), and taking top aggregate (£41,422)
for the 20th consecutive year.
When you decide to bid at the 1960 Sydney
Ram Sales remember that Haddon Rig Blood
is the soundest investment any breeder or
grower can make.
HADDON RIG
STUD
Warren, N.S.W. Telephone: Warren 74
Emu Springs, Tintinara, S. Aust. Telephone: Tintinara 40
reference to some of Queens-
land’s best inland fattening-
country, covering some 50,000
square-miles, the potential
traffic was estimated as com-
prising 59,500 head of cattle,
16,800 sheep and 3366 tons of
general cargo. The rail-traffic
volume per annum was esti-
mated at hT-milliop revenue-
ton-miles. At a 52 per cent.,
load-factor the train-cost was
1.3 d. a ton-mile. That sounds
good. But because of this low
volume the standing-charges of
interest on and maintenance of
highway represented 35.1 d. per
revenue-ton-mile.
Shifting a similar quantity of
cattle, etc., over a minimum
network of sealed roads and
employing 30 - head - capacity
road-trains, the revenue-ton-
miles were estimated at 81-
million. With a 54 per cent,
load-factor the vehicle cost
some 7.7 d. a ton-mile. Interest
on and maintenance of the
roadways represented 25d. a
ton-mile.
Until the revenue-ton-miles
increase to about 100,000,000,
or the productivity of the area
increases 13 to 15 times, the
producer would not be able to
pay the full true cost of either
of these transport-systems. The
question is: Who would pay
the difference between cost and
revenue? Naturally it would be
the Governments, by means of
indirect subsidy.
Now, let’s look at the air-
transport position. Transport-
ing the equivalent of 59,500
processed cattle from five or
six strategically located abat-
toirs and importing supplies to
stations and abattoir the esti-
mated revenue-ton-miles would
be 4^-million.
The economics of air-trans-
port are completely opposite to
those of surface-transport, in
that cost of ground-facilities in
these areas is almost negli-
gible, in comparison with rail
or road. To begin with, prac
tically all stations have aero-
dromes which are currently
suitable. But to allow for ex-
tensions to these where neces-
sary, and sealed aerodromes
wherever an abattoir is located,
the ground-facilities’ cost would
be 1.3 d. a ton-mile (compaie
this with the 35d. and 25d. for
the greater ton-miles of rail and
road). The operating costs of
the air-vehicle depend upon its
size, and are higher than that
of the surface-vehicles.
One air-vehicle with a 14-ton
capacity could perform the
transportation task during the
marketing-season at a vehicle-
operating cost of 20d. a ton-
mile.
The asset of the air-vehicle
for these inland and northern
areas is that it doesn’t matter
how fast or how big it becomes,
it can travel in any direction,
and at no time do vast sums of
money have to be spent on new
routes, or strengthening and
repairing existing routes; also
there are no huge standing-
costs on its highways. Air
vehicles are currently in pro-
duction which will offer rates
of lOd. a ton-mile.
It must be remembered that
the ton-mile rate is not the final
yardstick of cost-comparison.
The final test is a comparison
of the cost of transporting the
commodities between similar
points. This is ascertained by
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST.
(7/4/’60)
South-eastern Queensland should have good rains
during May, with moderate falls extending into part of the
Central Highlands and the Maranoa, but rainfall may be
poor elsewhere. Heavier rains are likely in the eastern
half of the State during June, with flooding likely on the
coast south of Mackay.
N.S.W. should have general rains during May, with
heavy falls on the Central and South Coasts, the Southern
Tablelands and part 'of the South-west Slopes and the
central-western districts. Serious flooding is likely in
the eastern half of the State. The rains should continue
in June, with further flooding in the southern divisions.
General rains are likely in Victoria during May, with
heaviest falls in west-coast districts and in East Gippsland.
Rainfall may be patchy in the second half of the year, apart
from general rains in September.
In South Australia the agricultural areas and west-
coastal districts should have good rains in May, though falls
may be poor in the north-interior area. Patchy rains
are likely during June.
Moderate rains are probable in the agricultural areas
of Western Australia during May, with good falls about the
Fortescue and West Gascoyne. Moderate rain is indicated
around Eucla and in the north-east, but falls look like being
poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


Specif, e d
1
f*
s'
!|fw
o
• The strongest ready-to-use
animal glue for sticking
emery cloth to grinder discs.
DAVIS
LIUII GLUE
Obtainable in 4 oi., 8 oz.,
and I gallon tins. Also in
tubes for the home.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
FROM HARDWARE AND GENERAL STORES
multiplying the ton-mile rate
by respective distances. The
air-mile is the shortest distance
between two points. Measure-
ment of existing road or rail
distances between similar
points will show that they vary
from not below 20 per cent, to
as much as 50 per cent, greater
than the air-distance.
The comparison in the ac-
companying table may simplify
an appreciation of the econo-
mics of the three transport-
systems in reference to the
50,000 square-miles studied:
Rail. Road. Air.
Highway and ground facilities—miles 390
Sealing existing and constructing
new—miles 1,257
Lengthening existing and sealing 7 50 aero-
aerodromes .. .. .. - dromes
Capital expenditure on above ' £13,650,000 £12,804,000 £343,000
Annual Operating Cost:
Interest on ground .facilities £682,250 £640,200 £17,150
Maintenance of ground facilities 273,000 256,080 7,180
Vehicle operating costs .. 38,233 278,218 375,310
£993,483 £1,174,498 £399,640
Revenue:
Based upon 4d. per ton-mile for live-
stock and 6d. for imports £111,218
Live cattle at 6d. per ton-mile and
imports at current road-rates fls. 4d.) £239,341
Processed cattle based on equivalent of
£4 12s. per head live-weight,
imports at existing road-rates £268,427
Estimated annual loss which must be
covered by Government by direct
or indirect subsidy .. £882,265 £935,157 £131,213
Loss or subsidy per ton per annum £29.94 £31.5 £6.41
Loss per mile of highway per annum £2,262 £743 ?
The rail-estimates in that
table may be brushed-off as
mere estimates; nevertheless
they appear conservative when
compared with the findings of
a committee under Sir John
Kemp in 1953 in regard to the
extension of the railway from
Dajarra to Camooweal, a dis-
tance of 158 miles:
Estimated traffic —68,500
head of cattle, 3658 tons of
goods.
Estimated loss per annum—
£3sB,46B.
Equivalent to an annual loss
or subsidy of £2269 per mile of
rail-highway.
If there is any semblance of
accuracy in these estimates on
rail-costs, Bingle is correct
when he comments on the re-
juvenation and expansion of
railways for the beef industry
as being “a question beyond
our State Governments.” The
same is true of sealed roads.
But this does not answer the
insistent demand that we must
have good transport in these
areas if the beef-cattle industry
is to be developed to the stage
that we all know it can be.
One may ask: Why perpetu-
ate an archaic philosophy tying
us to a system of marketing
which insists on transporting
live cattle from the fattening-
areas 800 miles to 1500 miles
eastwards away from the ulti-
mate market in the U.K., pro-
cessing them and then back-
tracking round our coast west-
wards before they pass the
latitudes in which they were
first in prime condition. This
surely is just as foolish as it
would be if Argentinian cattle
were transported into Chile for
processing, then shipped all the
way round Cape Horn to the
U.K.
We have the ways and
means of tackling this essential
problem, but it requires a
change in our way of doing
things. If we care to study the
economics of air-transport and
realise that within five years we
will have air-vehicles with
an individual capacity of
20,000,000 ton-miles per an-
num, then we must acknow-
ledge that the capital expendi-
ture on ground-facilities and_
the direct subsidy necessary
come well within the financial
capacity of our Governments.
Why not use the air? It
doesn’t cost a cracker to build,
pay interest on, or maintain.
It s infinitely less expensive to
subsidise. If private interests
will not erect a series of inland
meatworks, then there is ample
capital-margin for Govern-
ments to do so before their fin-
ancial commitments approach
the frightening level of surface-
transport requirements. We
look to the producers to invest
in bettei stock, improve their
properties, and increase pro-
duction. They cannot afford
the essential investments if they
are to be tied to a system of
marketing which perpetuates
wastage of all their efforts.
A co-operative system of
rail/air, with the aircraft
fanning-out in any required
direction from and feeding into
existing rail-points could serve
cattle-stations and abattoirs up
to hundreds of miles distant.
It would give producers a
modern system of marketing
and transport, which could
meef their incessant demands.
The saving of money by air-
transport, both capital on
ground-facilities and annual
subsidies as compared to sur-
face-transport, would allow the
rejuvenation of existing rail-
ways, especially with the supply
of refrigerated vehicles.
All this could be started to-
day, because it is within the
financial capacity of private
and Government interests, pro-
vided we are prepared to
appreciate and apply the
modern methods we have
created.
Pod-sucking Bug
“North”: The pod-sucking
bug (Riptorus surripes ) attacks
all varieties of beans and some
other leguminous plants and
shrubs, piercing the pods when
green, sucking juices from the
growing seeds and leaving little
more than husks.
However, growers of green-
beans for market are not the
ones who lose by it. The
damage it causes is not appar-
ent until the pods ripen and
are threshed. A large pro-
portion of the seeds iwill then
be found either deformed or
immature, and they will not
germinate. In heavy infesta-
tion up to 75 per cent, of
seeds may be affected, making
it necessary to grade by
gravity-machine to remove
damaged seed, at considerable
loss of profit.
The length of the adult bug
is about 1 in., and it has long
legs and antennae. Its body
is blackish-brown, with pale-
yellow markings along the
sides and a short, sharp horn
projecting from each side of
the body just behfnd the head.
Adult bugs, to be seen feeding
on . pods in all stages of
development, quickly fly off
when disturbed, while the
nymphs hide on the underside
of the leaves.
For control, use D.D.T.
either as 0.1 per cent, spray
or 2 per cent, dust.^
Ripe-rot in Papaws
“Acacia”: Ripe-rot, a shallow
fungus rotting of the ripe
papaw, can cause serious loss
when fruit is consigned to
distant markets.
Spots first appear as irregular,
brown, superficial discolora-
tions of the skin, from |in.
to |in. across, but quickly
develop into circular spots,
measuring from |in. to 2in. in
diameter, with a sunken sur-
face. The color of the fruit
varies from its noimal golden
through various shades of
brown to deep black; in moist
conditions there may even be
a salmon-pink incrustation of
spores over most of the surface.
The affected flesh is dry, with


m
■-n
M
wsi<:
K 5
sg iii
Mm&mrn
<'"
*•?<>£
Kg
E®B
Hi
*'<'' <>J - .••" ' a.-K-7"
1%
~;r
;
: <x:;
' #5/
*ii
i 3
' )
W&mm
I ■
~ ••. •-•-••••;• ••.
IWmWM
■H
m
sSM
m
inf • • .m• • • HI• • • Jlf t• V
New
Exciting
Beauty
in Six Clamorous Colours
Give a luxury look to your kitchen, laundry and bathroom
with gay, colourful "Duradec."
So easy to install and priced to fit modest budgets. '‘Duradec**
gives you a completely finished wall that needs no decorating.
It's as tough as it's beautiful. Washable and scrubbable, too.
If pays
in all ways
to specify
Yes—six exciting colours available—
Blue, Buff, Grey, Green, Pink and Black,
all flecked with white—means added
beauty for your home.
Waste-saving sheet sizes available —<•
6' x 3', 6‘ x 4‘, T x 3‘, T x 4'.
tiradec
ff
DECORATED ASBESTOS-CEMENT
WALL SHEETS
Manufactured by
/
830 DJ
•opto# Sift, REDFERN
Free folder and sample
from Dept. "DD,"
W under lith Limited,
Bex 474, G.F.0., Sydney,
\
little discoloration, and may be
readily lifted out, leaving a
basin-like hole in the fruit.
When fruit is picked in early
stages of ripening for consign-
ment to distant destinations the
spots are not in evidence; they
appear as the fruit ripens.
Usually the severest losses occur
in the early spring, diminishing
as the season advances. Con-
trol is rather difficult, but loss
may be minimised by pre-
cautionary measures. All
rotting fruit, dead leaves and
stalks should be collected and
burned. When selecting trees
for seed consider their suscep-
tibility to the disease. When
harvesting pick fruit as ripe as
possible, with regard to its
destination, and keep it cool
and well-ventilated in storage
and transport.
Spray young fruit evefy three
weeks from time of setting with
a cuprous-oxide mixture, at a
strength of 0.1 per cent, copper.
Don’t use Bordeaux on papaws;
it may cause serious damage to
the young crown-leaves. Add
a wetting-agent to the spray,
either potash-softsoap at the
rate of 11b. to 20gals. water or
a proprietary wetter, of which
there are several excellent
brands on the market.
Leptospirosis
in Calves
“North”: A severe outbreak
of leptospirosis, or calf-red-
water, in south-eastern Queens-
land has caused fairly heavy
losses in some herds.
With mature animals it is
normally a transient fever,
causing dairy-cows to “go off
their milk”; but, being a bac-
terial disease, it is highly in-
fective. It is transmitted by
contact between calves by in-
halation, or simply through
skin abrasions. Bacteria can
survive for fairly long periods
in stagnant w'ater or boggy
yards; many outbreaks in
calves have been traced to
drainage from pig-pens.
Symptoms are sudden and
severe. Calves quickly become
fevered, drop saliva from the
mouth, breathe heavily, lose
appetite, and if they remain
alive are subject to anaemia and
jaundice. Urine turns red or
black. Calves may, however,
be found dead without any
symptoms.
Calves showing symptoms
should be at once isolated for
veterinary attention. The nor-
mal temperature of a calf is
between 101.5deg. and 102.5-
deg. F. during summer. When
the disease is suspected the
calf’s temperature should be
taken twice daily; if it shows
an early rise immediate treat-
ment should be given (tempera-
tures always rise before other
symptoms appear).
Antibiotics can give good
results, and an effective vaccine
is available for preventing the
disease (which, incidentally, can
be transmitted to humans).
Cost of the vaccine for a
group of 20 calves is about 2s.
a head. Any Agricultural
Department veterinary-officer
or stock-inspector will supply
all information about this
vaccine.
Corn
“The Boomer”: Don’t agree
with “Kune” (B. 30/3/’6O) that
you can plant an acre with
from 500 to 600 grains of corn,
unless he's speaking of an
American acre, about which I
cannot comment.
For convenience, let’s take
an area of 5 chains by 2 chains.
To plant each five-chain row
with grains JOin. apart would
take 396 grains for each row.
As the area would be 2 chains
deep, that would mean 44 rows,
each 3ft. apart: a total of
17,424 grains to plant an acre.
I have never counted the
grains in a bushel of corn, but
shouldn’t be surprised if the
total was somewhere near the
number I have mentioned. It’s
usually agreed that it takes \\
bushels to 2 bushels to plant an
acre, with two grains to each
stool, which would make about
j bushel to 1 bushel an acre at
one grain a set.


Established 1868
Contractors to Govtrnment Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commtrcial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON *
O'SUI.IiVAM
lx rTY . LTo JL
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copies of old Scottish song,
“Bonny, Bonny Briar-bush,” the
song “Prince Imperial,” and the
schottische "Pretty Foot.” —6977.
Anyone knowing of the existence
of a print of the film “The Story
of the Kelly Gang,” produced in
1906 by J. and N. Tait and John-
son and Gibson, and shown
throughout Australia and New
Zealand, kindly write to Sir Frank
Tait, Comedy Theatre, Melbourne.
—6976.
Information Sought
Particulars on Ernestine Hill.
When and why did she write “My
Love Must Wait”?
Born in Brisbane, Mrs. Ernestine
Hill spent many years wandering
in outback parts of Australia carry-
ing swag and typewriter; has
travelled by plane, packhorse,
lugger, truck and camel. Publica-
tions include Peter Pan Land
(verse), Water Into Gold (history
of Murray River irrigation settle-
ments), The Great Australian
Loneliness (travel), and Waterway,
in addition to the novel based on
the life of Matthew Flinders. She
was a member of the A.B.C. in
1942-44. As to when and why
she wrote the last-mentioned novel,
you could contact her, c/o Angus
and Robertson, Booksellers, 89
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
* * * *
Is there any basis in fact for
the events described in Long-
fellow’s poem “Evangeline”?
Yes. Acadia, or Acadie, a dis-
trict in what is now Nova Scotia
and eastern New Brunswick, and
so-named because Verrazano called
a part of the coast Arcadia in
“She never wins anything, but she meets all the
nicest dogs in town.”
1524, or from the Micmac acadie,
“fertile land,” found in several
placenames. Colonised by France,
Acadia was a bone of contention
in the wars between France and
England. It became English under
the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713. In
1755 the imminence of war with
France, the vexed question of the
neutrality of the Acadians and their
possible revolt, led to the forcible
deportation of the majority of the
Nova Scotia Acadians (about
6500). Their settlements were
destroyed and those not deported
driven into the wilderness. This
deportation is the theme of the poem.
The Acadians were distributed
among the English colonies. After
the peace of 1763 about 800
returned to New Brunswick, where
the name Acadian is still current.
See G. P. Bible’s An Historical
Sketch of the Acadians (1892) and
A. Doughy’s The Canadian Exiles
(1914).
* * * *
I’ve read that a dam-wall can
be put across a sandy river-bed so
that upstream water —which would
eventually be lost by going down-
stream or by drying out—can be
held and tapped in sand-wells or
by spear-pumps. Any example of
this in Australia ?
(From the Water Conservation
and Irrigation Commission): As
far as we know, there is no struc-
ture of this type —i.e., constructed
for the purpose of storing water
in sand within a stream-bed —in
Australia. There are weirs built
to store water within streams.
These weirs have sanded-up so
much that little free water is avail-
able, but water can be obtained
by means of lined wells, spear-
points, etc.
Several factors influence such
proposals. If banks are unstable,
a weir or dam in a sandy stream
can be quite costly, and the filling
of the stream-bed with sand
upstream of the weir or dam may
well induce or accentuate flooding-
problems, besides increasing the
likelihood of erosion around the
dam or weir. If a suitable rock-
foundation is available for a weir
or dam the problems of cost,
stability and outflanking erosion
may be reduced or eliminated.
Effective storage depends on the
type and grain-size of the sand.
Something around 30 per cent, to
35 per cent, of the total volume
of sand may be taken as the
total volume of water stored in
good clean sand when fully
saturated. Of this amount of
water, approximately 10 per cent,
to 15 per cent, is unavailable for
extraction, even if the sands appear
to be pumped dry. Add to this
a further 5 per cent, (or higher)
loss by evaporation, and the result
is that less than one-third of the
total volume of the sand-and water
stored represent free water avail-
able for extraction. 1
Brief Answers
E.K.G.: Most cases of feather-
plucking among galahs are due to
wrong feeding. Sunflower-seed is
a very heating food, and as you
live in a tropical area it would be
advisable to stick to cracked-corn,
wheat and a little oats. If you
can get the bird to eat a little
fruit as well (apples and pears) it
would prove beneficial... .H.H.P.:
The stamp has no value; being
a local German stamp it is not
available for postal use outside that
country K.G.: Contact Tyrrell’s
Bookshop, 202 George Street,
Sydney....R.Y.: That postage-
concession is still in operation.
. ...M.O’F.: The schooner-rig is
faster than the ketch-rig, but the
latter is more easily handled. The
yawl-rig, which is faster than either
of these other two, is the com-
monest rig of two-masted yachts,
while between schooners and
ketches the former is commoner
among large ocean-going vessels
and the latter is prevalent among
smaller coastal, river and estuary
vessels... .R.D.F.: Red and green
were used for traffic-signals long
before a scientific reason could have
been known... .N.M.: The respec-
tive playing-areas of the Brisbane,
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide
Cricket Grounds are 170yds. by
140yds.; 174yds. by 162yds.;
186yds. by 168yds.; and 207yds. by
140yds M.F.: Stanley Gibbons’
Catalogue is the standard reference-
book. Parts dealing with'Common-
wealth and foreign countries are
published separately... .T.W.C.:
Some of the best poems in English
about dogs are Robert Browning’s
“Tray,” Elizabeth Browning’s “To
Flush, My Dog,” Byron’s “Boat-
swain,” Hardy’s “An Important
Personage At Home,” W. R.
Spencer’s “Beth Gelert,” and A. C.
Swinburne’s “At a Dog’s Grave.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
F.N.8.: If listening to Parlia-
mentary broadcasts inspired you to
write that pome, what about stick-
ing to the fights?... .R.S.W.:
You’ve got to find a natural
language... .S.H.: One’s too short
to say much and the other too
long to say it effectively, but both
have merit... .G. 8.: “Pastoral”
nearly made it... .8.H.D.: Promis-
ing. Try freeing yourself from the
sonnet, and concentrate on observa-
tion rather than meditation....
J.A.: Slight but fresh.... Anon:
Anon, anon, 5ir....A.L.W.: For
all its simplicity the mouse is the
liveliest... .8.H.: Trees don’t think.
. ...E.V.R.: Where did you see a
sparrow eating an acorn?....
E.M.H.: “What is memory? The
fragrance of a rose.” Yes, but
that’s got whiskers a yard long.
. ...R.MacM.: Even if you
couldn’t have it typed, surely you
didn’t need to write it in parallel
columns on both sides of a piece
of paper 18in. long? ... .H.G.P.:
Try “The Farha without Fowls”
on the Egg Board. It’s better than
“Eata Extra Egga Day” anyhow.
. ...8.8.W.: Glad you enjoyed the
verses... .R.McK.: The cricket
nearly hopped in....H.8.: We
have received, during the last 75
years, a poem on every dead gum-
tree in Australia... .J.M.T.:
You’re in the dock:
“BOYS WILL BE BOYS”
So Sydney Uni. students are “educated
louts”
Who indulge in frenzied bouts
Of poking fun at police and peel's
Instead of being seers
As they should be,
Treating the Law with propriety.
’Tie ncrJhing to what young constables do
When cranky sergeants are out of view.
Who, they say, will be a brave Hector
And tar and feather an inspector ?


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO RAYMOND MAXWELL COX
TAKE NOTICE that .JEAN LOUISE
COX has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4186 of 1909 on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 27th day of June 1960 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, 107-109
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, New South
Wales.—C, A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
No. 2185 of 1959
TO RONALD CURTIS late of Towns-
ville Gaol Rockhampton in the State of
Queensland.—TAKE NOTICE that JEAN
JOSEPHINE CURTIS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2185 of 1959 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 29th June 1960 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from GIBSON, MACPHILLAMY &
PHIPPARD, Solicitors, of 43 Phillip
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
THE HOLLIDAYS
"Now, don't be silly—remember you're not as young as you used to be."
New Recordings
Russian Pieces
Dominating the latest re-
leases from Coronet is the
playing by the New York
Philharmonic under Leonard
Bernstein of Moussorgsky’s
Pictures At An Exhibition
(KLC 2706. LP). The tran-
scription foi; orchestra by Ravel
from the original pianoforte
piece has all that master’s feel-
ing for color, a commodity
that Bernstein has brought out
glowingly in the 10 portraits by
his dead friend, the artist Victor
Hartmann, which Moussorgsky
lovingly and skilfully put
into musical terms. The “pro-
menade theme” which crops up
throughout the work is stated
with beautiful simplicity and in
tasteful contrast to the poly-
chromatics of the various
scenes, of which the incident
of the children at play and the
ballet of the chickens stand out
in a solid performance. On
the reverse side is Rimsky-
Korsakov’s “Capriccio Espag-
nol,” excitingly evocative of
the Spanish scene.
Another all-Russian disk,
KLC 2713 LP, starts-off with
Tchaikowsky’s famous “1812
Overture.” This commemora-
tion in crochets and quavers of
Napoleon’s defeat by General
Winter in front of Moscow too
often conjures-up music that is
all brasses and a boom of
cannon. In this recording
Eugene Ormandy and his Phila-
delphia Orchestra concentrate
to great effect on the various
Russian folksongs, the old
Russian hymn “God Preserve
Thy People,” the “Marseil-
laise,” and the old Russian
Anthem, the whole thing taken
on subdued volume, to create a
truer interpretation of Tchai-
kowsky’s splendid overture.
The scene then moves to
Oriental Russia, with Borodin
supplying the flashing speed
and the whirling dancing of the
“Polovtsian Maiden” dances
from his “Prince Igor.” This
is gorgeously-attired music of
Russian nationalism, replete
with full-blooded rhythms, and
these are carried-over into the
same composer's “In The
Steppes Of Central Asia.’
Moussorgsky returns then to
paint in grisly colors but strong
melodies the black spirits, the
witches’ revelries and the
cavorting cadavers of his
“Night On Bald Mountain,” to
finish-off a disk that offers
many riches.
A hop across Europe then to
France for another set of
dances to death, this time
supplied by Camille Saint-
Saens in “Dance Macabre”
(KGC 146 LP). Dimitri Mit-
ropoulis, with the New York
Philharmonic, is in charge of
the midnight tomb-revelry, and
he does get his xylophone-man
to make quite a good job of
the skeleton-bones rattling. For
all that, it is good listening,
for the composer, as well as
evoking a nightmarish scene,
wrought some very fine tunes
here. The tone-painting in the
same composer’s “Omphale’s
Spinning Wheel,” also on this
record, is crisp and clean.
Much lighter in weight and
with uninhibited gaiety is the
collection of Gilbert and Sulli-
van Favorites (KGC 156 LP),
with one of the greatest Savoy-
ards, Martin Green, singing in
his well-trained but comically-
edged baritone seven of the
best-known of the airs allotted
the comedian. They include
“I’ve Got A Little List,”
“Flowers That Bloom In The
Spring,” “Beauty In The Bellow
Of The Blast,” and “Tit
Willow” (all from “The
Mikado”), “I Have A Song To
Sing-O” (from “Yeomen”) and
“The Law Is True” (from
“lolanthe”).
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
Jerome Kern
One of the great names in
American popular music,
Jerome Kern scored his first
Broadway show in 1911 and his
last success —the film “Centen-
nial Summer”—in 1945. In the
years between, teamed with
Oscar Hammerstein 11, Ira
Gershwin and Otto Harbach,
he produced a string of
musicals which reached its
peak in “Showboat” and in-
cluded other long-run shows
such as “Sally,” “Music in the
Air” and “Roberta.” Even the
least-successful Jerome Kern
show usually left behind it one
or two songs that refused to be
forgotten. In A Night With
Jerome Kern (KLL 1614)
Coronet have gathered to-
gether a dozen of the com-
poser’s best-loved numbers.
Recorded by baritone Earl
Wrightson and soprano Lois
Hunt, with Percy Faith’s
orchestra (the same combina-
tion recently made A Night
With Sigmund Romberg), the
disk holds hits from the shows
mentioned above, including, of
course, “OF Man River,”
“Look for the Silver Lining”
and “Smoke Gets in Your
Eyes,” and other songs from
less-remembered shows.
The recently revived “They
Didn’t Believe Me,” for in-
stance, is from a 1914 show
“The Girl from Utah”; the
haunting “Long Ago apd Far
Away” is from the film “Cover
Girl” and “Can I Forget You?”
comes from an Irene Dunne
picture “High, Wide and Hand-
some.”


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Guests - of - honor at Coral Sea Week
celebrations will be Admi r a 1 and
Mrs. H. G. Hopwood, who will
arrive from Hawaii on May 10
and will stay at Menzies’ Hotel.
Admiral Hopwood is C.-in-C., U.S.
Pacific Fleet-. Invitations are now out
for the annual luncheon organised by
the Australian-American Association,
which will be held on May 11 at the
Royale Ballroom. The admiral and his
wife will be guests-of-honor at the
luncheon, and later in the day they will
attend a cocktail-party. At the Royale
Ball their hosts will be the junior group
of the A.-A.A. On May 12 there will
be the march through the city, and the
week will be climaxed by the Coral Sea
Dinner-Ball at the St. Kilda Palais on
Friday, May 13. At every function
organised for Coral Sea Week, officers
from the visiting American ships U.S.S.
Canberra, Halibut, Jenkins and Taylor
will be guests. Ticket-secretaries for the
dinner-ball are Mrs. Barry Harper
(WB 1425), Mrs. W. J. McCann
(BJ 5625), and Judy Gundill (BJ 1651).
☆ ☆ ☆
Good news for theatre-lovers is that
actress-authoress Cornelia Otis Skinner
(remember “Our Hearts Were Young
and Gay”?) is to come to Australia to
co-star with Cyril Ritchard in “The
Pleasure of His Company,” which will
begin its Australian season at the
Comedy Theatre after Sydney’s Phillip
Street Revue Co. (of which Melbourne
has heard excellent reports) has finished
its season there. The Firm’s Charles
Dearden saw Cyril in New York and
reports that the Australian actor, who
enjoys a big reputation there, has a
country estate 14 miles out of the city.
☆ ☆ ☆
How Mrs. Glen Craigie (Elizabeth
Paterson) finds time to paint puzzles her
friends, for she helps her husband in
many ways in running their grazing-
property at Shallow Inlet, Foster. The
exhibition she is holding at the
Athenaeum Gallery is being held in con-
junction with Rollo Thomson ; some of
her paintings are of scenes near her
home, and others are the results of a
holiday spent in Central Australia.
Lieut.-General Sir Horace Robertson
opened the exhibition, and among those
present were Mrs. Craigie’s husband,
her eldest daughter Amelda (who is a
second-year law-student), and younger
daughter Dale ; her aunts, artists Esther
and Betty Paterson, and her father, Mr.
Ford Paterson; Commander George
Gill; Dr. and Mrs. John Mitchell;
Dame Mary Daly ; artist Alma Figuer-
ola; Mrs. Dallas Moore; Mrs. David
Warford Mein; and Miss L. Cairns
Llqyd.
Another exhibition, opened this time
by Lady Casey at the ’Overseas League
clubrooms in South Yarra, was that of
Miss Jessie C. E. Traill, a life-member
of the league. The 40 paintings and
etchings are of landscapes done in
Britain, France, Norway and Australia.
The exhibition closes on April 23. Lady
Casey wore a forest-green tweed suit
and matching velvet hat, the high-peaked
crown entwined with narrow gold braid.
Those who attended the opening included
Overseas League secretary Thomas Hud-
son and his wife ; Mrs. J. Blain, Mrs.
F. M. Johnson, Mrs. R. Gamble, Mrs.
J. U. Knox, Mrs. Clem Ellis, Mrs. W. A.
Gartside, Miss Evelyn Syme and Miss
Una Teague. Proceeds from the sale of
catalogues go to the league’s funds.
Faye, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. George Laurens, attended St.
Catherine’s and is'now doing first-year
law at the University, where she is on
the Student Representative Council. In
her spare moments she plays tennis and
squash. Last week more than 150 school-
and University-friends attended the
dance given by her parents to celebrate
Fayes formal “coming-out.” It was held
in her own home, and the guest-of-honor
wore a full-length gown of white silver-
threaded French-lace highlighted with a
sash of white satin.
“Made In Australia” will be the proud
slogan of Henry Haskin when he shows
high-fashion garments in Honolulu, the
west coast of the U.S. and Canada. The
first manufacturer to show Australian
fashions in Canada, he will take with
him frocks made of lightweight wool,
suitable for women living in air-condi-
tioned houses, as on the North American
continent. All these frocks have been
designed, treated and manufactured in
Australia. He is also taking the new
drip-dry lightweight woollens perfected
by the C.5.1.R.0. A brief showing of
these fashions was held just before Mr.
Haskin left on his trip. The styles are
simple, but excellent in cut and design.
First shown was a white Swiss pique-
quadrille frock, eyelet-embroidered, cut
on slim lines and worn with a tiny
bolero. The same material was seen in
a frock which had a short buttoned
waist-length jacket. A lovely polished-
cotton showing large silver roses on a
black ground featured the new tunic-
line and very tight skirt. Another tunic
showed a very flared line and was also
in cotton, polished and printed with
autumn flowers.
Very sophisticated and suitable for the
cocktail-hour was a white ribbon-run
French - lace frock which featured the
flared tunic, slim skirt and a bodice with
rounded neckline and tiny sleeves.
Another tunic-frock, this time very slim,
was made of pastel-blue lace. An
unusual combination of color was a
frock which featured the linking of
pastel-pink and red. Blue lily-of-the-
valley formed tiny clusters on a white
organdie full-skirted frock. They were
also featured on the wide fichu-collar.
* V V 1
Autumn foliage mixed with chrysan-
themums and dahlias decorated the home
of Mrs. R. D. Collmann, of Hawthorn,
when she entertained at an afternoon-tea
party to aid the funds of the United
Nations Appeal for Children Auxiliary.
The guest-speaker was Mrs. E. Crawford,
whose talk was titled “Food of All
Nations.” The exotic cakes served were
made by members of the committee, w 7 ho
also supplied the recipes. There were
more than 50 present, including the
Japanese Consul’s wife, Mrs. M.
Nomoto ; the wife of t)ie Consul for
Thailand, Mrs. H. I. Fader ; Mrs. Robin
Bailey, Mrs. R. Danne, Mrs. L. Lean,
Mrs. W. Weekes, Mrs. A. Minty, Mrs.
E. McNeil and Mrs. F. Bowden.
SYDNEY
Sydney welcomed the Governor-
General and Lady Dunrossil during the
week, obliging the visitors with fine,
sunny weather, though perhaps a little
hot for the Scottish-born. About 1000
Sydney citizens met the Governor-
General —so distinguished-looking with
his great height and magnificent head of
snowy-white hair—and Lady Dunrossil
at the Town Hall reception, where the
Lord Mayor’s 19-year-old daughter Jan
(Mrs. Lindsay Johnson) made a graceful
hostess for her father.
Lady Dunrossil, who is very elegant
in dress and bearing, chose navy-blue for
both the civic-reception and the State
dinner at night. It is a color which
brings out the blue in her strikingly
beautiful eyes. A lawyer and a woman


who has had much experience in public-
speaking, she told newspaperwomen at
an interview that it still “destroyed the
day” for her. She loves gardening and
would like to do some painting in water-
colors of the landscape round Canberra.
The experience of seeing the whole of
Australia must come first, however.
During the year their Excellencies will
fly to every State and meet as many
Australians as they can.
☆ ☆ ☆
The handcrafts at the Royal Easter
Show are much more handsomely housed
now than they were a few years back,
but to the onlooker it is doubtful whether
the standard is any higher than it was in
the past.
Some caustic comments were heard
from the region of the rich fruit-cakes
and the sponges, the comments coming
mostly from men of the wide-brimmed
variety. “Well, Mum,” said one, “if you
offered us a cake like that you wouldn’t
get much of a reception!” and another
said grumpily, “The puddings look like
cakes and the cakes like puddings.”
“Ever let your fancy roam” seems to
be the motto of the entrants in the iced-
cake division. The designs are becoming
so extravagant that the cake is dis-
appearing altogether. Everyone was lost
in wonderment at Mrs. D. Chard’s prize-
winning design of handbag, gloves (laid
on top of the bag) and lace-shoe. But
was it a cake?
The decorated birthday-cakes kept
more within the bounds of reason. Mrs.
A. L. Oldfield’s exquisitely modelled
apple-blossoms on a pink cake won her
first prize, and a pretty circle of roses
round the side of the cake was a feature
of Mrs. B. Beazley’s third-prize winner.
Another pretty idea was the christening-
cake for twins—two little square cakes,
one pink and one blue, decorated—
entered by Mrs. D. Moule.
The paintings that were shown were
all very modern and colorful. They
caused much puzzlement and nearly as
much comment (and of the same type)
as the fruit-cakes.
There is very little else in the hand-
crafts that is up-to-the-minute, however.
Keeping up with the fashions doesn’t
seem to be a characteristic of those
capable of fine stitchery. The children’s
dresses are far too fussy, and the aprons
unimaginative. One frock for a little
girl which was smocked with pink and
entered by Miss J. Grant had style, and
a white one with cross-stitch figures refund
the hem was also up-to-date.
However, the most fashionable bride-
doll yet seen won second place for Mrs.
C. W. Lamph. Dressed in satin and
guipure-lace, her outfit would satisfy the
most fashion-conscious bride. Mrs.
Lamph’s first-prize doll dress9d as a
Sister of Mercy was also a beautiful little
creation.
Also praiseworthy for simplicity and
beauty of design was the pottery (no
square cups, thank goodness!), and
noted, too, was Mrs. J. E. Keats’s abstract
design in wool-tapestry, a successful
attempt to incorporate modern ideas in
a time-honored art.
As if the pendulum had swung right
back from the predominance of floor-
length dresses at last week’s big dance,
the Town and Country Ball at Prince’s
saw practically all the women wearing
short ones. The president of the ball-
committee, Mrs. Clinton Ayres, wore a
short white strapless dress, trimmed with
flowers of chiffon route. Her son Tony
accompanied Maureen Ryan, whose
dress was champagne organza with
tiered rows of coffee lace. Mrs. Charles
Eastment entertained a big party and
decorated her table with town and
country motifs (a rooster for the country,
a poodle for the town). A special toast
by the party was drunk to the Eastments’
new grandson, only three days old, the
son of the Peter Hodgsons. All the
girls in Elizabeth Bowman’s party were
devotees of the short dress. They in-
cluded Sue Macarthur Onslow (Muswell-
brook), Nan Killen (Narrabri), Diana
Burge and Susan Remington. Among
the guests of Mrs. John Rankin were
Mr. and Mrs. John Callaghan and Mr.
and Mrs. Edward Lloyd Jones.
Jill Perryman stars with Max Oldaker
and Lyle O’Hara in the Phillip Street
Revue, which sets out on an extended
tour of Australian capital cities after its
two weeks’ run in Sydney. This revue
is composed of the best items from past
shows the ' theatre has presented, and
should be a very lively piece indeed.
The Phillip Street Theatre is now six
years' old and has given a great deal of
laughter and enjoyment to Sydney
audiences. It seems only fair that they
should spread their gaiety farther afield.
By the way, the company of 12 which
will go on tour includes Peter Kenna,
the young Sydney playwright. Jill’s
photo is by John Hearder.
A Frenchman told us during the week
that, though you hear that ‘'there is the
most nice girls in the world in Tahiti,”
he considered that “In Sydney there is
as much nice girls as in Tahiti.” He is
M. Paul Winter, who manufactures in
France nearly all those cotton and tergal
voile curtains that we drape across our
picture-windows. Does it surprise you
to hear that Australians buy more voile
than any other country? Others prefer
marquisette with' its more open mesh.
M. Winter is travelling round the world
with his vivacious and charming wife.
He has been making voile curtains for
30 years and took it up' because they
were the hardest things to make. “It is
always best to do the hardest thing,”
he says wisely, “because so few people
are doing it.”
And another Frenchman said during
the week: “It is what goes to the heart,
what is simple and moving—that is what
I believe in as an artist.” Yes, it was
Maurice Chevalier who said this when
he opened the exhibition of the Aus-
tralian Art Society in David Jones’
Gallery. There was a very big atten-
dance at this opening, and a general
fluttering of young autograph-hunters,
who hovered like butterflies round M.
Chevalier as he looked at the pictures.
Greeting and introducing him (the latter
rqerely formal of course) were Mr. Clif
Pier, Mr. Alan R. Grieve and Mrs.
R. W. J. Gray.
☆ ☆ ☆
Received during the week quite the
most stunning invitation to the gala-
premiere of “Ben Hur” at the St. James
Theatre on May 5. It is a magnificent
picture of chariots plunging along as
Rome burns behind them. The proceeds
of this gala go to the Royal N.S.W. Insti-
tution for Deaf and Blind Children,
which celebrates its centenary this year.
“Ben Hur” won IT awards in the
recent Academy ratings, including the
Oscar for the best actor, which went to
the star Charlton Heston, so it will be
a great thrill to have him come to Aus-
tralia for the gala-opening, at which he
will appear in person.
☆ ☆ ☆
Merle du Boulay’s beautiful rooms
at Rushcutter Bay were crowded for the
exhibition of portraits by Paul Fitzgerald
which was opened by Mrs. Marcel Deky-
vere on Saturday. Many of the paintees
were present, including Mrs. Michael
White (Belltrees, Scone), Mrs. Casey
(Coolringdon, Cooma), Mrs. Lawrence
Street and Mrs. Lennox Bode. Wearers
of the new high - hat style were Mrs.
Michael Read in a fluffy white one, Mrs.
Bob Mclnerney in a mink one and Mrs.
Neville Baker. Mrs. Paul Fitzgerald
looked very charming in a brilliantly-
white coat (it had “extra-sparkle” as the
soap-ads. say) and a great white-lot
collar. The party was in aid of the Royal
Blind Society.
☆ ☆ ☆
The University Settlement Fete, to be
held this year in the University grounds
on April 30, is to have an international
theme, with each stall decorated to
represent a different country. In keeping
with this theme the fete is to be opened
by the Dean of the Consular Corps, Mr.
Henning - Hergel, Consul - General for
penmark. Mrs. H. F. Benning is the
chairman of the special auxiliary
organising the fete.


of others of his kind, the Admirable
Crichton whose accomplishments were
legion. He has left us with pungent
snapshots of himself in his brief diaries
and exact sketches and paintings,
charts and information about the
foundations of South Australia, apart
from similar sketches illustrative of the
contemporary scenes of his earlier
career.
It seems incongruous that he should
finally come to rest in so austere a
setting as Adelaide, with the Governor
and all the colonial officers of Govern-
ment and 450 mostly sanctimonious
“gentlemen, in deep mourning” follow-
ing him to his grave in Light Square
(named after him).
His life had earned him no material
assets. He was deeply in debt, and his
successor in the affections of his last
lady-love (who presently died also of
tuberculosis contracted while nursing
him), a doctor who married her, paid-
off his liabilities, since he left no money
of his own.
Adelaide erected over his grave a
curious piece of 19th-century Gothic,
“rather like something lost from a
cathedral.” Crumbling, this was later
replaced by a less pretentious memorial.
His memory is also kept alive by a
bronze statue on Montefiore Hill, over-
looking the city, and through the pre-
sentation to the Adelaide Corporation
by some of the original founders of the
colony of a silver bowl, which the
council annually fills with Australian
wine served with biscuits, so “that the
citizens may drink to the memory of
Colonel Light.”
The ceremony seems a fitting post-
script to the history of one who gave
the name of “Barrosa,” now misspelt,
to the future centre of the Australian
wine-industry to remember a noted
victory by his old friend and general,
Graham, Lord Lynedoch, almost as
romantic a character as himself.
M.H.E.
Artists in America
Alexander King’s Mine Enemy
Grows Older (Heinemann) is the auto-
biography of an Austrian who was
taken to America at the age of ten,
and who became a book- and maga-
zine-illustrator, commercial artist, and
odd-job man in pictorial journalism,
even to becoming picture-editor to
“Life.” From these sources he made
a lot of money, so that when he became
a'dope-addict for twenty years, spend-
ing those years in fear of arrest by the
Narcotic Squad and in and out of dope-
cure hospitals, we are clearly in the
presence of a moral tragedy. It is
evident enough that his deplorable de-
cline was due to the bad-conscience of
an artist who sold his self-esteem in the
easy-money market.
King was gifted with a genuine
plastic faculty, as his book-illustrations
evidence, and his aspiration was for
self-expression in the established
standards of sound draughtsmanship
and the quest of that almost forgotten
objective, harmonic beauty. He found
there was no place for it financially in
a land where the studio-world had
gone over en masse to the modernist
looney-bin, where millionaires were
spending millions on Old Masters,
where the chromium-plated moneyed
class were buying only Picassos and
Utrillos and Modiglianis which went so
well with their gaspipe chairs and
sponge-rubber bar-room stools, and
the popular magazines wanted only
popular-magazine illustrations. When,
as a young man, King brought some of
his drawings to such a magazine the
art-editor thought so well of them that
he bought one for himself. But he
assured King that they were of no use
to his magazine. “Why?” asked King.
Said the editor, “We only want the sort
of pictures our readers would make if
they knew how.”
So in the end King sought an escape
from the ignominy of the ready-money
market in drugs, with their brief inter-
ludes of oblivion tormented by the
incessant craving for yet more drugs,
and the horrors of undergoing a
periodic treatment which temporarily
relieved him of that craving but failed
to cure him of it, till he became a
shattered physical wreck, and, with a
brief space allotted to him for exist-
ence, sat down to write his auto-
biography.
Yet we find no hint of sentimentality
or self-commiseration in his amazingly
frank self-revelation. It is gaily written,
and his attitude to himself, and every-
body else, is one of sardonic humor. It
is full of brilliant character-sketches,
and his comments on the pundits of
the popular-magazine industry are
shattering. He has taken a mordant
revenge on them for the demoralisation
he was weak enough to allow them to
inflict on him.
Withal, this book conveys a potent
warning to any artist who hopes to
strive for technical excellence in the
high traditions of his craft, and to make
no concessions to the easy-money
market of popular rubbish. America
may be a good place for the writer, for
the standard of prose is high there and,
thanks to Mencken, writers may con-
vey their concept of life without con-
cessions to puritanic taboos. But it is
a bad land for the artist, unless he sub-
merges himself in the modernist rabble,
or sells himself to the brassy photo-
graphic finish of commercial art.
N.L.
Rhymes for Children
Geoffrey Grigson’s The Cherry Tree
(Phoenix) is a most pleasant book to
read and must have been pleasant to
compile. It is an anthology of rhymes
for children, full of all sorts of odd,
gay things and, being equally attractive
for adult readers, serves the very useful
purpose of reminding us that poetry
need not always be deadly serious to be
effective or obscure to be profound. A
riddle by some anonymous rhymer —
A white bird floats down through
the air
And never a tree but he lights there
(the answer is “snow”) —can take-off
into the outer space of delight often
much more effectively than the labor-
ings of metaphysics; the complete
simplicity of some other unknown poet
can achieve the loveliest effects of
music and no small measure of human
drama:—
Three little children sitting on the
sand,
All, all a-lonely,
Three little children sitting on the
sand,
All, all a-lonely,
Down in the green wood shady—
There came an old woman said,
Come on with me.
All, all a-lonely,
Down in the green wood shady—
She stuck a pen-knife through their
heart,
All, all a-lonely,
She stuck a pen-knife through their
heart,
All, all a-lonely,
Down in the green wood shady.
But it must be said, since charges
of obscurity against the poets should
never be made without reservations,
that a lot of the verse here makes its
appeal not because it is sense but be-
cause it is nonsense —it enlarges the
mind; it tickles the fancy—and a lot
more of the verse, though it makes
sense in the end, gets its effect because
it is a game with words: the ingenious
riddles in sham Latin, for instance, like
Jonathan Swift’s “Mollis Abuti”: —
Mollis abuti
Has an acuti,
No lasso finis,
Molli divinis.
Omi -de armis tres,
Imi na dis tres:
Cantu disco ver
Meas alo ver?
There are 500 poems in the book,
old favorites and poems that would
nearly all have been old favorites if
one had known about them; written by
large poets, small poets and anonymous
poets; neatly arranged into sections;
and nicely printed. It is pointless to
discuss who’s in and who’s out of such
a collection, but this reviewer’s only
noteworthy regret is that Andrew
Young has replaced W. H. Davies
among the Nature-poets. On the other
hand, along with some amusing con-


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
North Australian Monthly
Subscribe to this magazine (est. 1954) with
Outback atmosphere—read about N.Q., N.T.,
Kimberleys. Interesting, informative articles,
also good fiction. 80/- p.a. post free from the
distributors: T. WILLMETT & SONS LTI>.,
TOWNSVILLE, N.Q. (Sydneysiders can order
copies at Swain’s, Pitt Street.)
tributions by Robert Graves, it is good
to see a fair ration of W. B. Yeats, a
poet who, for some odd reason, hasn’t
been much heard-of lately.
Penguins, Pelicans, Puffins
There is usually something you
haven’t read, as well as something you
have, in each new batch of Penguins;
and if it is a pleasure to renew acquaint-
ance with A. P. Herbert’s The Water
Gipsies (in exceedingly small type) in
the latest lot it is a still greater pleasure
to come across, for the first time, Honor
Tracy’s The Straight and Narrow Path,
a most amusing Irish novel which one
should have read years ago.
Like “Clochemerle” —and indeed it
is not unlike it, only more concerned
with chicanery than sex—“ The Straight
and Narrow Path” sounds as if it could
be alarming to some readers if you state
the plot baldly. It starts to move when
a visiting Englishman sees the nuns in
an Irish convent leaping over bonfires
on a midsummer night in what, being
an anthropologist, he recognises as a
survival of pagan ceremonies; where-
upon he writes an article about it for
an English newspaper and the Canon
of Patrickstown sues him for libel.
But the point is that Patsy La Trobe,
the local solicitor, has tricked the
anthropologist into writing the article,
having made a very good thing before
out of suing English newspapers for
libel; and Miss Tracy is not out to be
irreverent about convents but to depict
the curious, wily solidarity of the Irish
against all foreigners whatsoever.
The novel is enlivened by such
characters as Cat’s-eye O’Keefe, the
poacher; a beautifully-drawn hotel-
proprietress who would like to be kind
to her English lodger if kindness is
compatible with solidarity; a fighting
barrister from Dublin; some notable
drunks in that same city; and the
eccentric Lord Patrickstown, who, like
Modigliani, has a habit of throwing
off his clothes and running naked
through the woods. It ends with a
supposed miracle and a tremendous
religious pageant when, to the final
discomfiture of the anthropologist, who
thought he understood the Irish by this
time, the entire population of Patricks-
town, sinner and sceptic and believer
alike, march singing triumphantly to
the place of the alleged miracle ... a
people none but the Irish can ever
hope to understand.
Other new Penguins—they seem to
be having an interlude of lighthearted-
ness—include Thome Smith’s The
Bishop’s Jaegers, Noel Langley’s Cage
Me a Peacock and H. V. Morton’s In
Search of England.
This reviewer, being familiar with
Dorothy Wordsworth’s journals, picked
Johannes Brondsted’s The Vikings for
new reading among the new Pelicans;
but Dorothy, who is in Home at Gras-
mere, a continuous text made up of
extracts from her journals and a selec-
tion of her brother’s poems, would have
been a better choice. Known or not,
she always wrote beautifully and, in
fact, it is hard to decide which of the
pair described the daffodils the better.
It is a most simple and homely journal;
and it is always fascinating to have
Coleridge drop-in and to go for a walk
with him.
Brondsted’s “The Vikings” is
interesting up to a point, particularly on
the extent of the Viking invasions of
England and Ireland, their ventures to
Iceland and Greenland and their dis-
covery of America, so long before
Columbus, when, in 992, following the
first sighting by Bjarni Herjulfson. Leif
the Lucky landed on the continent,
found grapes growing wild and called
the place “Wineland.” (No relic of
the colonisation which ensued has ever
been found, says Brondsted, but he
thinks that the sites of Leif’s huts might
be spotted from the air by low-flying,
slow-moving aircraft as similar remains
have been found by the Danes in
Greenland.) But as a whole, like some
similar Pelican archaeological and
scientific surveys, the book is by an
expert for experts, rather than by a
writer for readers. It is thorough;
detailed; cramped; and laborious —a
textbook.
Other new Pelicans worth investigat-
ing are A Short Story of Italian
Literature, by J.. H. Whitfield, and A
History of Spain and Portugal, by
William C. Atkinson. A new Puffin
is Mary Norton’s The Borrowers
Afield, one of the most charming and
amusing children’s stories of modern
times, near enough to the class of
“Alice” and “The Magic Pudding”
and a minor literary phenomenon in
that for once (the first in the series was
“The Borrowers”) the sequel to a
delightful book is better than its pre-
decessor. The Borrowers are the little
people who live under the floor and
borrow the stamps, the bobby-pins, the
pen-knife, etc., that you can never find.
INTERPLAY
What is within becomes what is around.
This angel morning on the world-wide
sea
is searched with light that's mine, and
comes from me,
and I am mirror to its blaze and sound .*
as lovers double in their interchange.
t
Yet I am not the seer, nor the world the
sight.
I am transcended by a single Word —•
let there be light; and all creation
stirred.
I am that cry alone, that visioned light,
its voice and focus. It’s the Word that’s
strange.
Look how the stars’ bright chaos eddies
in
to form our constellations. Flame by
flame
answers the ordering image in the name.
World’s signed with words; there light
and love begin.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Reviewed Briefly
The Great Prince Died: Bernard
Wolfe (Cape), The drama of the death
of Leon Trotsky in 1940 is the basis
for this compelling novel. The author
spent eight months as a member of
Trotsky’s secretarial staff during his
exile in Mexico, and has brilliantly
re-created the scene and the personali-
ties involved in the assassination. He
presents the work as fiction and calls
his chief character Victor Rostov,
presumably because he has formed his
own theoiy of the important critical
weakness in Trotsky’s armor, his guilt,
unacknowledged to himself, in destroy-
ing the sailors at Kronstadt in 1921. It
was this act of blood, so the theme
of the book runs, that led inevitably
to the G.P.U, and the murderer’s axe
that struck down Trotsky himself
twenty years later.
• * * *
The Lonely Battle: Desmond
Wettem (Allen). An unusual true-
life war-story. The river-gunboat
H.M.S Peterel (Lieutenant Stephen
Polkinghom, R.N.R.) refused to
surrender to superior Japanese naval
forces at Shanghai on December 8,
1941. Opening fire with two Lewis-
guns—her sole armament —she inevit-
ably went down with colors flying,
though the American gunboat Wake
surrendered without firing a shot. The
adventures of Jim Cuming, only mem-
ber of the Peterel’s company not killed
or captured, form the subject of this
book. He carried-on a lonely battle
with the Nips and in the end got little
thanks for it.


Two most useful capacities in long-life
9
2-VOLT and 6-VOLT THAT WEED
NO HYDROMETER TESTING
In-built gravity balls that indicate the state of
charge of the cells at all times are a feature of
Erg home-lighting batteries. Attractive, trans-
parent polystyrene container enables you to SEE
the acid level. Double insulation (including glass
wool) minimises shedding, ensuring longer life.
Home-lighting
BATTERIES
. ; ■
3KSF
1
f-
X
-
ERG TYPE 6HLS-13 VOLT
Capacity: 110 Ampere hours
ERG TYPE 2EPH-27 VOLT
Capacity: 225 Ampere hours
GUARANTEED 3 YEARS
ERG BATTERIES PTY. LTD.
156 GOULBURN STREET, SYDNEY.
■" DISTRIBUTED BY:
M A 6188.
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - SYDNEY
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - BRISBANE
32 Barry Parade. ’Phone 2-6565.
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty. Ltd. MELBOURNE
200 Latrobe Street. FJ 1 155.
Erg Batteries (S.A.) Ltd. - ADELAIDE
13-15 Ackland Street. ’Phone W 4744.
K. R. Bosworth & Co. - - HOBART
43A Bathurst Street. ’Phone 2-4791
J. R. Roe & Company - - DARWIN
Cavenagh Street, ‘Phone 761,
Walter Sully &Co Pty. Ltd. - - - BROKEN HILL
404 Argent Street. ’Phone 2388.
