

The Bulletin
ggw£sxi! nsa®w UMPmiw
Wednesday, August 31, 1960
Price 1 /-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
THE HIGH COMMISSIONER'S RESIDENCE—
CANBERRA HOUSE, residence of the U. K. High Commissioner in Canberra, is in Empire Circuit, Deakin.
R was cp,[;eted in September, 1953, and its first occupant was Sir Stephen Holmes, followed by Lord Carrington
and then by Sir William Oliver. The house, which is almost all white, with green tiles, has been described
Mchilecturally as plain and unpretentious. But it is attractive nevertheless, especially when its rose-gardens are
in full bloom. The furniture is a mixture of modern and traditional English. The insignia on the gateposts are
a representation in stone of the Royal coat-of-arms.


IIOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text hook, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
GENTLEMEN OF THE LAW
As a history of English solicitors,
Gentlemen of the Law, by Michael
Birks (Stevens ; The Law Book Co.
of Australia), reassures the unlegal
reviewer apprehensive of saying the
wrong thing: little could add to the con-
fusion of the indirect crookt paths
down which solicitors have burrowed
through time and society.
Solicitors were a later development
of attorneys. When sheriffs who
collected Crown rents and dues had to
account twice a year by moving
counters from square to square of the
checkered board of the Exchequer,
they were allowed stand-ins ; the “res-
ponsalis" relieved the sheriff of the
tedious hanging-around and calculat-
ing. It became then the practice to
appoint attorneys by Chancery writ, or
in the court trying the action and, as
in the marriage-service, “for better
or for worse,” for which reason a defen-
dant was not always allowed an attor-
ney. For if an attorney appeared “on
behalf of,” he could be imprisoned
“on behalf of,” and, they considered,
“the attorney ought not to be im-
prisoned.”
Still, the idea that an attorney who
loses a case should be imprisoned has
a certain attraction, especially for
defendants. Indeed, in 1480, when the
law was modified to allow out-of-court
appointments of attorneys, the Worces-
ter courts provided that the plain-
tiff might have “execution upon the
body" of the defending attorney ; but,
says Mr. Birks, “the defendant who
was not prepared to come to court
in Worcester must have found some
difficulty in securing the services of an
attorney.”
As large estates broke-up, the ever-
increasing need for legal documents,
pleas, deeds, etc., produced the race
of scriveners ; and the circumstances
of their calling, in conveyancing property
and establishing values, made the
scriveners into moneylenders, some
lending to merchants at as high as 16
per cent. And from the further cutting-
up of property came .the solicitor:—
The blows delivered bv Henry
VII to the nobility and by his sons
to the Church brought into being
greater numbers of landowners but
smaller holdings. Faced with con-
tinually rising costs the country
gentleman, as in our own times, was
being forced to dispense with all
but the most essential servants.
Among the first to go must have been
the quasi-lawyers. . . . The process
was gradual; the servant is employed
on a part-time basis and allowed to
make up his earnings by doing work
for other people; an acquaintance
who is perhaps a merchant in Lon-
don and is familiar with legal matters
is employed to act by the man who
has no clerk. It was from such
sources as this that the new profes-
sion of solicitor was drawn.
The attorney tended to be restricted
to particular issues, the solicitor to the
handling of a multiplicity of affairs.
The attorney was limited to certain
courts, and he was controlled;—-
“If an attorney be complained of
we first send him to the Fleet;
secondly we fine him ; thirdly we
turn him out of the Roll, quatenus
an attorney, and we leave the party
complaining to take his remedy be-
sides. . . When an attorney was
ordered to be struck off the punish-
ment was carried out with due
ceremony, and he was lifted up
bodily and tossed over the barrier
separating the court from the rest
of Westminster Hall. He would
then be led round the other courts
in the Hall so that the judges might
know his face in case he should
attempt to seek readrriission in an-
other court.
Although the attorney was recog-
nised by the courts, anyone could call
himself a solicitor, and of those who
did the vast majority were no more
than attorney's touts with no legal
knowledge and little regard for the
clients’ interests. Efforts were made
to prevent them, even if they studied
law in Lincoln’s Inn for seven years,
from becoming barristers. The Middle
Temple allowed them to become bar-
risters only if they gave up their other
practices.
The early solicitors were not without
zeal for their clients; in 1674 one
earned praise and a term in jail for
beating a clerk over the head with his
staff, “whereby his head and face are
very much swelled and bruised,” be-
cause the clerk had expedited the draw-
ing of an order against the solicitor’s
client ; while in the 1720's the soli-
citor Wreathock was fined £5O because
of an action for division of profits on
jewellery in which it turned out that
both plaintiff and defendant were
highwaymen. In his anxiety to secure
justice for his clients Wreathock “was
reputed to maintain a number of pro-
fessional witnesses in full-time employ-
ment. . . Westminster Hall abounded
in such persons who could be easily
identified by the wisps of straw they
stuck in their shoes.”
In 1729 an Act of Parliament defined
the activities of both attorneys and soli-
citors. provided for the enrolment of
solicitors and admitted qualified solici-
tors to become officers of the Court
of Chancery. As officers they became
gentlemen, the origin of the gibe that
solicitors are “gentlemen by Act of
Parliament.” The Art •, -
five-years’ clerkship P ° vided fa
Barristers had always dklir,
neys ; attorneys had alwav s .f"
distaste for solicitors; and 2 sho *
tors became respeciabte ,
most disapproving of other ! We
and in 1785. when Z
certificates of admission they cl tr s
accepted the tax because it
courage undesirable personfi
entering the profession." furth
‘•keep out the vermin” articles of ell!
ship were taxed at the instance *
lawyers themselves, £lOO in in
and £5O in the country. " dti
Such devices were not very effid™
as the histories of a succession of
law - societies demonstrate
JWf YSo ing with W
But by 1839, “the dishonest*
tor was no longer a serious problem:
it was not the rogue who ruined his
clients so much as the man who fa
to keep proper accounts.”
The bare bones of these extra
have been clothed, chapter by dp
in the book, with learned inai
pictures of attorneys and solicitors st
work, derived from diaries and»■
temporary writings, at various peri
in English history, notably an account
of the legal career, in England and in
India, of William Hickey, scapegrace
son of one of the foremost Engll
attorneys of his day, and the subjects
one of Slessor’s finest poems; and there
is a chapter of “Colonial Attorneys’
in America and in Australia, whereiti
to be hoped there is no more inaccui
than in calling Bigge “a Mr. Brig
and “Commissioner Brigge.” Inal
some 300 large-paper pages, will
plates and an index.
Tobruk to Tarakan
In Tobruk to Tarakan (Mi
John G. Glennon erects a sort*
obelisk to the memory of the rant
able battalion he served with in Worn
War ll—the South Australian %
which took part in the defence *
Tobruk, met Rommel’s break-throi?
into Egypt, attacked with impose
courage at El Alamein and then,
a jungle-training course back no l
pushed relentlessly through hi
Japanese defences at Lae, Satie
and Tarakan. ,
It is a plain obelisk, cut fr°
strictly functional language o .
operational report. A battalion
rather than a commentary on
chief concern is with in® 6 * Lj
spirit of a particular umt" 11 ’. .
that reached its fullest expf
such men as Private Stan Lur J-
charged through frightful iJ acn jV'
fire at Tel el Eisa and knoa
three German posts with gtf
(Continued on pag e^.


/
/
: -
m
■ ■
me.
f
■ v -As !
Free Services
... TO THE FLOCK
AND HERD BREEDER
Let us assist you to select
your herd or Stud Bulls,
Flock or Stud Rams
These Services are
free to every breeder
Elders Stud Stock Team, with their wide experience
and complete knowledge of Stud Stock, are available
at all times to render full Service to buyers.
Elders Stud Stock Departments in five Capital Cities,
backed by a network of 200 Country Branches, are
to-day giving unequalled and complete Service to
Breeders all over Australia.
Take advantage of this free Advisory Service by our
experts: they are specialists in Stud Stock.
Prompt attention at all times. Phone your nearest
Elder Branch.
Elders complete Service to the Man on the Land covers
Wool, Merchandise, Livestock, Travel, Skin and Hides,
Insurance Chartering, Property, Rural Banking.
ADELAIDE, PERTH, ALBANY, SYDNEY, GOULBURN, NEWCASTLE,
MELBOURNE, GEELONG, BRISBANE, LONDON


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 31, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4203
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 436-440 King William Street,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE 35-HOUR WEEK
npHE assurance of Mr. A. E. Monk
A that every “attempt at progress is
resisted by the employers on the ground
that it is going to bring about economic
ruin” is the kind of overstatement
that often comes out of the mouth of
the Gulliver of trade-unionism whose
travels seem to exceed those of Marco
Polo and Moscow’s space-dogs put
together.
Travel may broaden the mind, but it
rarely improves the wanderer’s know-
ledge of what is going on in his home-
land, as is shown by Mr. Monk’s
assertion that the 35-hour week will
have “no dire consequences” because
the 40-hour week has operated for 11
years without damaging the economy!
Mr. Monk, the head of the now Com-
munist-dominated A.C.T.U., obviously
has yet to learn the facts of Australian
industrial life.
There has been no real 40-hour week
for a long time, and if the 35-hour
week is introduced, as his council
demands that it shall be, it will cer-
tainly not be a 35-hour week at all. but
in some industries will represent little
more than a couple of square days’
work.
The idea of the 35-hour week was
born with the Communists and adver-
tised on Labor Six-hour Days with the
help of members of the N.S.W. Minis-
try. It was brought to an issue by the
Communist leaders of the Miners’
Federation who put a halter on the
late J. J. Cahill and his Minister, Mr.
Simpson, at the last N.S.W. election,
and compelled them to take the first
step by introducing a week
at the State Coal Mines. These mines
are remarkable illustrations of what the
35-hour week will mean. They are
places in which everything is unreal
and nothing means what it says. For
instance, the theoretic 40-hour week
in them was subject to half-hour a day
marginal allowance and other condi-
tions which made 40 hours a complete
misnomer.
It was given in evidence at the hear-
ing of the 35-hour week demand for the
coal industry that at the Lithgow
State Mine the men’s assembly-point is
an old pithead from which they no
longer work.
Thence they are carried to the new
“drift” some distance by bus, and
though they have all bathing and other
facilities at the new pithead, they in-
sist also on being carried back to the
.old one when they have finished work.
These bus-rides (free) are included
in their working-time. They are also
allowed, as part of their time, the period
it takes for them to get to the face and
as many minutes as they need on arrival
at their working-places to gather
strength with the help of a sandwich.
The production men in this particu-
lar “salt-mine” have usually cut their
quota 40 minutes before the end of
the shift, which gives them further
rest and they are then tenderly con-
veyed back to the surface for the sec-
ond bus-ride of the day.
TT was established at another State
A mine that men received up to £8 a
week in bonuses over their award wages.
And the whole of Lithgow-mine coal is
taken at 68s. per ton by the State
Electricity Commission, which is pay-
ing only 455. for private coal.
Its excuse for not buying all
private coal, which it can get 235. a
ton cheaper than the State coal, is that
private coal is not available.
But the fact is that if all the private
owners on Greta and Lithgow seams
piled enough free coal to supply the
commission for a thousand years on
its doorstep it would still go on buy-
ing State Coal at 68s. a ton.
It is quite obvious that the Lithgow
State mine is not working 37| hours,
or even 35, or 30 hours, and that if
a 3 5-hour week were officially intro-
duced it would further reduce the
actual working-hours. In fact, it has
been made clear by union representa-
tives that on the introduction by the
.supine State Government of the official
37| hours (less bus rides, etc.) the
unions demanded that the half-hour
margin allowed off the original sup-
posed 40 hours should also be allowed
off the hours.
Australia is already suffering from
its disadvantages caused by the dis-
astrous, ill-timed 40-hour week when
competing in the world market, and cer-
tainly would face a devastating position
if the A.C.T.U. gets its way.
Though the Communists who rule
the A.C.T.U. have decided to ask all
Governments in Australia to support
their fantastic measure through direct
negotiation and Labor Council pres-
sures, beginning with mining, power-
production and heavy industry, there is
a”d-file ChenthUSiasn,^n gtteia<
wealth Government ready to
in its application to the
reduction of hours, the at?,** 4
threatens to “apply pressure'?, H
objective outside the courts H
In the application affecting u, ,
industry, no support™ evil® I*l 1 * 1
been called by the craft f'"" >»
which there are eight. Unio " s ' <
They were content to ret, „ ,
case of the Miners’ Federal 01 *!
though the Coal IributaT Si?
Evans who appeared as advoa,
the Federated Engine Drivers an F k
men, that it would[“allow him to 2
submissions, but that if he did n«S
evidence to support them, the
to be attached to the submissions J
be open to comment.”
N >s difficuU to believe that Ik
A.C.T.U. really hopes that, ifa,
pressure on Governments or otherwise
it can attain an objective which would
destroy all hope of developing
tralian exports and put a killing
on the expansion of Australian hot.
manufacture.
The Federal Government will un-
doubtedly fight the move to the limit
McMahon, Minister for Labor, fo
cribed it as “incomprehensible and
quite irresponsible.” He said that!
reduction of working-hours by an eigli
would increase the cost of goods i
a relative proportion and would cef’
tainly make it difficult to mainti
the present standards of living.
XJE was probably right in his deli
tion that “what is behind the *
is not so much a reduction of houm
an attempt to have wages incrd
through overtime by these means rate
than by a direct application to if
Arbitration Commission which If
know would have no chance of sued'
ing.”
This is obviously the fact, harinj
regard to the fullness of employing
But whatever the motive of t ;
A.C.T.U., that of the Communists*
inspire the move is clearly p®
They are engaged at present in one
their periodic campaigns to W
industry, especially in transport
heavy industries in which disturb
means the weakening of defence.
If they can succeed in g« ;|
hours, of course, then so ® u
better. Shorter hours in
countries is one of the d evices
by it is hoped ultimately to a ,
the Communist world-revol .
debilitating the West, and gw
with its long hours and rutn .
tion to the ideal of maxiniu®
output, regardless of individu
a long start in the world CO ®P,
sales into which Moscow is
to enter.


"WHAT'S IT LIKE UP?"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Moscow v. China
The press in general is only too ready
to interpret the game going on between
Peking and Moscow as a rift between the
two countries: perhaps even as a
symptom of a struggle between the
precious leaders of the two Communist
giants for supremecy in world Com-
munist leadership.
The only thing of which it is a symp-
tom is the readiness of the “capitalist
press” to dance to the Communist tune
and to take seriously (until disillusioned)
anything that the Kremlin and its allies
care to feed to it.
The tale being told is that the Kremlin
has criticised China’s expressed doubts
about the Moscow policy of coexistence
of the capitalist and Communist world,
Chinese certainty that war between the
Communist and capitalist worlds is in-
evitable, and Peking’s hint that Moscow
has become an “apologist for imperial-
ism.”
As evidence, it is pointed out that
trainloads of Russian technicians are
returning home from China. This might
be a symptom of a breach if technicians
were not returning hastily and with a
maximum of publicity from other centres,
such as Iraq.
On the face of it, the whole business
looks like powder-play to cover-up the
preparations for whatever moves the
Communist bloc has in mind in the
coming month —and it certainly has im-
portant and perhaps worldshaking moves
in view in the vicinity of Berlin, Cuba
and Africa. The signs are too many
and too much in a major pattern to make
it possible to think otherwise. The
Kremlin is adept in raising issues to
cloak its intentions, but the outside world
never seems to learn the full extent of its
duplicity.
The central reason alleged for Khrush-
chev’s attitude in favor of coexistence
is that he knows that nuclear war would
mean the destruction of both sides taking
part and therefore feels that it must be
avoided at any cost. But the real fact is
that coexistence is only a bait for soft
brains, and that if Khrushchev really
advocates it as a final objective he has
ceased to be a Communist,
He has preached always to his own
people—and publicly enough to be heard
by the outside world —that Communism
cannot succeed except as a world empire,
and that the capitalist world of imperial-
ism must be destroyed, either by internal
subversion or by force and violence. His
current line seems to be that the United
States has proved it impossible for Com-
munism to coexist with the West.
The ideal of Communist tactics, which
Khrushchev preaches, is that there should
be coexistence in the present phase of
relationships so that he may use the
period of the armistice to Red-ant and
destroy the capitalist system from within,
or by economic means. But no more
than China has he abandoned the concept
that this will achieve his end. He only
hopes that it will weaken his enemy to a
point where a final tap on the cranium
will destroy the Western civilisation and
leave the earth to the tender mercies of
Communism.
Moreover, the language used by both
parties is double-talk. When Khrushchev
talks of “coexistence” with capitalist
systems he is not talking of coexistence
with capitalist Governments, but with
peoples under capitalist Governments as
a separate entity from their Governments
—the masses he hopes to use. This is
put with a sublety which cloaks the real
meaning from wishful-thinkers.
Siow Going on Anti-monopoly
[From Canberra]
There is little, if any, likelihood of
Attorney-General Barwick introducing
anti-monopoly or anti-trade-restriction
legislation into Parliament during the
current session.
Barwick for months has been studying
just what action the Government can
take to control the growth of monopolies
(including the land-trust groups) and
bring an end to restrictive trade practices.
However, at every turn he has come up
against those Constitutional provisions
which guarantee freedom of tra'de be-
tween the States.
The Federal Government’s power is
very limited. It is believed Barwick at
present is studying the possibility of ask-
ing the States to hand over certain powers
to the Commonwealth to enable it to
take action, but £o date no moves have
been made.
With four non-Labor Governments in
the States there would seem to be a fair
chance of reaching some agreement, but
Barwick will explore every other avenue
before approaching the States.
The Ghosts of Canberra
The Budget debate has shown the Oppo-
sition up in all its futility.
As Menzies remarked in his reply to
the official attack of the Opposition
Shadow Cabinet, Labor’s financial plan
seems to rest on four proposals.
The first, of course, is to get rid of
the Menzies Government. This is its
cure-all.
The second is to bring back the Chifley
Government, or rather its ghost. The
forward-looking militancy of Labor, the
Red flags of liberty and fraternity, the
basic Socialism which is technically the
only objective of the party-platform, have
all been put away in the attic.
Grandpa Calwell and Grandma Ward
sit in the cobwebbed parlor and dream
of the days when the children of
Socialism sported noisily and arrogantly.
Those were the days—the golden days
of shortages, blackmarkets, Ernie Thorn-
ton and the 1949 coal strike, when in-
dustry was working about a quarter of
the week and pilots flying in from the
south and north almost had to turn a
torch on Sydney to find it in the blackout.
Distance lends enchantment to the
view—especially when one was a Minis-
ter in a far-off day. if therp .
embraced and pursued with
front-bench of the Oppositil? ol ty 4e
of being Ministers once mJ re ls th «
Labor, as Mr. Menzies save' i,
to “live in the past, practfs n Conie
philosophy with a deiad c 3 t a dea <l
ideas,” and shuffling around th e !?, of
scene w„h a pin in its frac,^
The third proposal which Men?*
outlined as being one of Labor’s si 5
was to “alter the Constitution t ?
more powers of control over fin.n! §lVe
the economy in general To S
monwealth Parliament.” lo ®'
Whatever sympathy' there mav ■
Australia for that ideal, in LSv 11
it is not dictated by any up-and-caS
vitality or any upsurge of ambition
It is all of a piece with the vearnin,
for the days when Chifleyism wa S t
light on the hill if not in the coalmil
It harks back to the ideals of D
Evatt’s Fourteen Points Constitution the
shadow of Stalin’s Constitution of 1938
It goes back to the policy of Gardena'
which animated the young Ward and the
young Beasley and which proclaimed
that next time Labor took control it
must assure that party government ended
and that it became impossible foi
other party to challenge Socialist control
of the country ; and to the old Cal-
wellism which proclaimed around 1947-
48 that Labor must “pluck the fowl of
capitalism” to cure all economic ills.
When Mr. Calwell proclaimed his fourth
plank to mend the faults of the Budget,
the cure of inflation by some vague
means, it was obviously in his old vein
of fowl-plucking that he was thinking,
not in constructive terms of free enter-
prise.
He and his colleagues are no longer
politicians ; merely political mummies,
Their policies are ghosts of the past which
have no legitimate place to go save down
the corridors of history.
Wool Over the Years
Farm costs have doubled over the last
decade, and although we can’t control
selling prices, costs are within our con-
trol, and it is vital for the future of wool
and Australia that we stop inflation.
That is the conclusion reached of
“Facts,” the I.P.A. Victoria publication,
after producing some very interesting
new figures on the wool industry.
Although wool provided only five P
cent, of total national production a
year, it produced nearly half of alll
come from exports. Our present nig .
industrialised economy needs a large
growing volume of imported
materials and equipment, ana fu
ployment and high
would be threatened if anything
pened to wool, which re . m , ain . v
greatest and most important indus •uj
In 1860, 20-million sheep _ y
59-million pounds of wool ; ® .
71 million produced 445-milhon i P
in 1920 82 million produced 7M-n* ,
pounds; in 1930 111 na ‘ l ’ l ( ? n 1 £ million
938-million pounds ; in 1940 11
produced 1128-million pounds,


.|i:- n produced 1142-million
|J 111,11 nd i/1960 155 million pro-
million pounds. The rapid
4 1 the last decade was due to the
4 111 r ma jor droughts and the
of ra bbits by myxomatosis,
properties are small.
“(in 1956) 44,806 holdings with
e to 499 (10-million sheep);
500 to 999 (22 million);
G 1000 to 1999 (32 million);
ih 2000 to 10,000 (56 million)
[Jgl with more than 10,000
fthree per cent, of all woolgrowers
annual income from all sources
fuj than £2OOO ; 23 per cent, have
Sto £4999 ; nine per cent, have
if to £9999 ; four per cent, from
Jto £19,999 ; and one per cent.
«£20,000. . . f ■
lis vital for the wool-industry to
pd, but this depends on selling-prices
5 costs, And many sections of the
Ration have a responsibility here.
U-2 Aftermaths
ft fuller reports in the European press
ib U-2 trial and its aftermaths give
idear idea of the pattern into which it
ms woven by Moscow.
Powers’s own picture of himself in the
ass-box was that of an unsophisti-
iiii and not very intelligent boy, who
ijs prepared to undertake a task for
ihe had training under the tempta-
iof large pay which he was to receive
ino questions asked.
It knew nothing about the aeroplane
nl its accessories except how to fly it
al press switches that he was told to
p, He was now pained to learn the
naughtiness of the enterprise in which
h lad been engaged and devoutly sorry
hie had been the unwitting cause of
’becking of the Summit Conference ;
•hlat he had allowed himself to be
filly those who sent him and paid
«ill-gotten gold to the injury of his
•country and world peace.
Mule he seemed vague about the
I of how he was shot-down and
,? S°t out of his aircraft without
•eg himself at high altitudes, and as
< "“ether it had U.S. markings or not,
i ! as communicative about everything
KusMns wanted to know —e.g., where
.'- type of aircraft had been based,
3 Wiesbaden in Germany, Turkey,
dJ®.’ Bahrein and Persia, and his
J ultimate destinations.
,J P rov *ded the Kremlin with just
LJi w anted, however. Powers to
Li,, ,? r Kudenko was a “lackey of the
i anc * Morgans,” and his
from w ? at a d once fl° wn a U-2
ilaunh't adea Sounds for a savage
Governs ° t n „ tae “revanchist Adenauer
provided n ’ information which he
aircraft ot her bases used by the
ings t 0 ,l S °hered to justify stern warn-
further \ COu |) tr i es involved that any
Would rpc, l 9 g' 1 from their territory
Vs * terrific reprisals ‘
that “i jj ais final outburst admitted
e committed a most serious
crime and deserve punishment for it”
and asked the court to judge him “as a
man who is deeply repentant and pro-
foundly sorry for what he has done.”
This fitted in with the prosecution’s
submission that he was “no ordinary spy
but a specially and carefully trained
criminal,” who “carried out his crimes
by means involving danger for millions
upon millions of people.” This led up
to Rudenko’s peroration to the Court
of three agate-eyed military officers in
uniform:
May your verdict be a stern warning
to those who carry through an aggressive
policy, criminally flout the generally
accepted standards of international law
and national sovereignty, proclaim a
policy of cold war, and make espionage
their national policy.
To wit, of course, the United States
of America.
Comrade Grinev, for the defence, com-
plemented this with the thought that the
“main culprits” were not Powers but “the
Central Intelligence Agency of the
United States headed by Allen Dulles
and the American military, and with
them all those sinister, aggressive forces
which strive to touch-off another world
war.” These, he said, had not even in-
formed Powers of “the plans they
harbored when sending him to commit
this crime,” deliberately misleading him
by giving assurances that his flight
over Russia would be absolutely safe.”
All the fustian is grim, coming as
it does from a Government which
has not shown the slightest regard
for international law and in fact preaches
as a basic tenet the right of Communism
to Red-ant any capitalist country and
the duty to subvert capitalist govern-
ments from within their own territory.
It is being used in propaganda since
the trial to prove to Asian and satellite
countries as well as the people of Russia
that attempts at conciliation with the
United States are useless.
In other words, that short of world
revolt against U.S. policies and internal
American insurrection, war against the
West is inevitable and negotiation futile.
Lifeless Scoresby
The doldrums into which political life
in Victoria has descended because of
the lack of an effective Labor Opposition
is reflected in the Scoresby by-election,
where the Liberal, William Borthwick,
opened the campaign supported by the
Premier before a small attendance and
a handful of interjectors.
Neither Bolte nor Borthwick gave any
Liberal “policy”; they did not hint at
even a Liberal platform. The reason for
this is that there isn’t one. Bolte’s only
policy has been to deal with problems
as they arise, from day to day, and he
hasn’t had to make any promises, other
than to special small country interests,
because the divided Opposition is
guaranteed to defeat itself.
The one issue in Scoresby, an outer
suburb, which could weigh against the
Government is Sunday trains. Those
residents without a car must be incon-
venienced by the discontinuance of
Sunday trains and also by the lack of
railway attendants at lonely stations after
8.30 on week-nights.
The six-months’ mark without Sunday
trains in Melbourne was passed this
month without a mention in the press,
although periodically an outer-suburban
council, such as Ringwood or Broad-
meadows, protests.
It is now accepted by Victorians as a
battle without visible end between the
commissioners, backed by the Govern-
ment, and the A.R.U., and despite the
inconveniences they suffer there can be
no doubt where public sympathy lies or
there would be demonstrations in favor
of the railwaymen.
There are none, and in Scoresby it has
been necessary only for Government
speakers to assert that there will be no
climb-down to the militant and part-
Communist-led Victorian A.R.U. to be
assured of support.
Grand Hotel
Although it will do little to alleviate the
discomfort of thirsty workers who have to
quaff a quick drink in the city because the
suburban pubs in Melbourne close before
they reach them, the new £5-million “in-
ternational” hotel on the Eastern Market
site will vastly improve one of the
dreariest parts of central Melbourne.
Many Melburnians sighed when work-
men began to demolish the Eastern
Market. Some of its small businesses
were among the best and most favorably
known in the city. They included
famous florists, the savory grocery and
wines of Franz, a central taxi depot, a
hardware shop that usually produced
hard-to-find items at easy-to-pay prices,
and a useful second-hand bookshop.
Despite the wares of the traders, how-
ever, it was a blotch ; dirty, dark and
dingy. For 30 years the City Council
had hoped to get rid of it, had made no
visible repairs or refurbishing of any kind,
and must rank as one of Melbourne’s
most niggardly landlords. In other
ownership, the market might have grown
as old gracefully as has equally unpre-
tentious parts of London.
The new hotel will take about two
years to build, a 13-storey steel-and-glass
structure on the frontages of Exhibition,
Bourke and Little Collins streets with .a
central plaza. It will have 450 bedrooms,
up to 100 retail-shops, parking for 300
cars and eventually for 500, an “eventu-
ally” that the City Council, greatly con-
cerned about car-choked inner Mel-
bourne, is not too happy about.
It will be built for Southern Cross
Properties Ltd., the Australian company,
by Intercontinental Hotel Corporation, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Pan Ameri-
can Airways. Apparently with a little
extra effort the hotel might have been
completely Australian-owned.
The name of the hotel, the Southern
Cross, is refreshing. No Waldorf, Ritz,
Astoria or other second-hand U.S. name
for the Americans!


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKL”
/"Vur Commonwealth Railways’ deci-
sion to issue passenger-tickets for the
transcontinental run in booklets brings
this department into line with the air-
ways people, who adopted the practice
some years ago. More convenient to
handle than a foot-long strip of per-
forated coupons, covers and voucher-
duplicates provide appropriate souvenirs
for trippers. This fast and superbly-
fitted and -serviced train stops at all
stations in its 30-hr. run between Kal-
goorlie and Pt. Pirie Junction (stations are
anything from 50 to 75 miles apart).
The coaches are German-made the
Teutonic Smoken appears above the
entrance to the lounge-car, and the
murals on the panelled walls depict
baronial castles in Der Vaterland.
Heil Hurtler! —“Tekma.”
❖
“Mugga Way”: The motorist com-
pelled to spend some hours each day in
Sydney between trips to the suburbs,
harried from parking-meter to parking-
meter, has difficulty in finding a service-
station to fill his petrol-tank. In the
suburbs there are far too many, and the
overhead involved in their erection must
have had a good deal to do with the
price of petrol here in a world finding
it has a surplus of oil. There are dis-
tressingly few pumps available between
North Sydney and Central station. Why?
♦> ❖ ❖
“Barra”: To cover wage-rises and
raw-material rises Victorian distilleries
last year kicked-up prices. In its latest
balance-sheet United Distilleries rakes-off
an extra 56,000 chips from nips.
❖' ❖ ❖
“M’Lou”: Australian sucker-lists have
achieved such world-wide distribution
that a Horsham (Vic.) farmer has re-
ceived, correctly addressed, an art-union
appeal from Malta.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Ceg”: I dare say World War II is
sufficiently recent for many people to
remember the German raider Altmark
“Let's pretend We're not in — it's the Joneses, and they've got Their
blasted projector!"
and her capture in a Norwegian";
crammed to the hatches with § S lord >
of merchantmen she had sunk ? ews
radio quiz-session “Altmark”' n a
subject. First-up to the mike
f*- “»• ‘he jackpot 5* ? ?
Second-up ditto; and the nrii 110 '
to £l5. The third
floundering badly; time was r nn Was
out, and the prize to be won wasT?
too big, so the compere decided if •
a hint. “11l tell you this much •'*?
said ; “the answer has to do with
sea and sailors.” Still no result 6
fourth contestant faced the mike ™
luscious, curvaceous blonde— she t.,’, !
be that. “I think I heard you say t h!
the answer has something to do with
sailors,” she said to the compere flash
ing a gorgeous smile. “Yes,” said the
compere, “definitely it has somethin? t«
do with sailors.” “0.k.” said the cur-
vaceous one, “my answer is that the
Altmark is a line drawn round a girl’s
leg—somewhere near the knee.” I D .
genious, I grant you, but she was gonged
and the jackpot went to £25.
*> ❖ *
“Eliza” : Friend was standing in a
queue to buy a Tatt’s ticket when k
woman behind her dropped her purse
and money rolled everywhere. “These
things will happen when you’re in a
hurry, and I’m in a tearing hurry,” the
woman explained as friend helped her
gather her change. “You go before me,
then,” said my kind-hearted young
friend, and she did, and won the £10,(1.
COMING TO TERMS
“Sir Richard Boyer, chairman of the A.8.C.,
told the N.S.W. Chapter of College Education
that the main problem was how parents and
children would come to terms with IV. ‘The
easy way out is not to have a set in your
house,’ he said, ‘but I think this is wrong
because the children are going to live with
television all their lives.’ ”
Fear no more the heat o’ the sun
Nor the furious winter’s rages;
When thy daily task is done
Go thou home and give thy wages
Up to the hire-purchase firms
To watch TV, and come to terms.
Fear no more the frown o’ the great,
The celluloidal tyrant’s stroke;
Care no more to clothe and eat;
Thou must watch TV or choke :
The sceptre, learning, physic, germs,
Have joined TV, and come to terms.
Fear no more the pistol-flash,
The bad man’s joy, the martyr’s moan ;
Even censure would be rash
For these exist on screens alone :
Lads and girls with golden perms
Must watch TV, and come to terms.
No exorciser harm them,
Nor no witchcraft charm them ;
No depression bilk them
While the wide boys milk them,
Till the consummating worms
Discover them, and come to terms.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


tns his first position as a teacher ;
* a small new school in the s.-e.
iSouth Australia. That was nine
psago; he requisitioned various
t® vital to efficient schooling. Last
% much to the puzzlement of the
kM-committee, a woodshed was
feied, although the school was due
to close-down a fortnight later. Mean-
tathe teacher had been transferred
■•iiew country high - school. But he
Weis dogged by the spirit of Jonah:
of a typist’s error, the high-
™ol is blessed with a woodwork -
®tre twice its planned size ; and exten-
ds have been made to the hot- and
I'water and sewerage systems to a
W midway between the playing-fields
! ®ss-rooms, where changing-rooms
: l,eto have been built —before a cut
spenditure deleted them from the
wplan!—“O-Twit.”
❖ ♦♦♦
L5 N !” : Asked what was meant by
It m Ra su^ra Se,” the schoolboy said:
«]([.• eans , the whole country is
toiilJf u rom Government.” He
kL t “ a y e heard Dad bewailing the
’ as he was a boarder.
* *
°1 ; Is “Jock” quite sure
Poacher Unds on which the Scots
with P a y in g £ stg.3
t'nder ? ad , of £4O Scots (B. 10/8/’60)?
sne JJJ r Scots Act of 1607 the
those ti m ° e r ated in Scots, which in
the exchange-value:
£stg.l equals £l2 Scots. The Scottish
pound is at parity with sterling at present,
the different notes being freely inter-
changed in Scotland. Also “Jock” has
his depreciation back to front; accounts
of the old time compared with today’s
prove that the Scottish pound of 1607
bought about as much as it does today.
“It seems I'm wasting my time coming to see you night after night, Gloria .”
Sterling has therefore fallen in value,
so that £1 is now worth Is. Bd. Had the
Scottish pound fallen in value as the
culprit claimed, he could have been
made pay £320 instead of the stipulated
£4oScots. Incidentally, poachers and
their kind get hauled before a sheriff,
not a magistrate, in Scotland.
* *** *
« XT c „ A , , , ~ „ *
c N-S- : Aske <i to name
Samt of Wales, our young hopeful re-
pied, Jonan.
♦♦♦
“Imperial 55”: Bosses jump on a senior
for the slightest thing and let the juniors
get away with murder. The cheekier the
junior girls are, the better they seem to
like them. And if there are any dirty
jobs going, do they ask their favorites?
They pick on Old-and-Staid every time.
Or if there is a job to be done five-
minutes before knock-off time they never
dream of asking the girls standing round
with their gloves and coats on waiting
for the minute to tick over—they pick
on the 0.-and-S. again. If they want the
afternoon off they don’t have to ask
anyone but themselves, but will they
admit to the staff that they’re shooting-
through? Only one of ours does. “I
won’t be back,” he says, and gets for his
life. Another always has a board-meet-
ing; conveniently near the golf-club.
The worst offender gives fictitious desti-
nations, and has caused much embarrass-
ment by not being where he says he’s
going when he’s telephoned there. It’s
all so silly. And usually we guess what’s
happening; we’ve got a name for it:
in reply to a query as to whether such-
and-such a boss is in we say: “No ;
sorry. He’s floating a company this after-
noon.” Well, floating something, even
if it’s only kidneys!
Saturday morning he came
to the fur-department and chose a lovely
dyed-ermine stole for his fiancee, whose
birthday, he said, was on the following
Monday. He left a small deposit and
arranged to pick the fur up next Mon-
day morning. Later on the same morn-
ing, right on the tick of closing-time,
he returned. He had learned that his
ship was sailing that day, much earlier
than he expected ; he tendered a cheque
all made -out for the balance. Did he
delight a surprised and grate£u i lass?
He not The cheque was politely
but firmly refused, and the stole went
safely back to stock.
**«. * &
.. Der H und”: Uncle presented Junior
with a pup ' hich grew into
a neurodCi truculent dog and, having
twice bitten the postman, was taken
away to another town and lost. The
gap in Junior’s heart was filled with a
Cocker pup. Some weeks later, to the
family’s astonishment, Pongo the Labra-
dor appeared at breakfast-time, playing
gleefully in the yard with the pup. An
amnesty was granted, but to protect the
tradesmen, Pongo was fitted with a
muzzle and collar and was to be chained
when not under supervision. Pongo had
certainly turned over a new leaf. He
played harmlessly with the kids and the
pup, and bounded joyfully into Mum’s
lap as she sat on the sofa, with a grin
on his foolish face, a thing he would
have never lowered his dignity to do
before his exile. Then, with muzzle,
collar and chain, he disappeared as
PLEASE DO NOT DISTURB
ithe most infuriating customs inns
fL perpetrate,
*L point of view of paying-guests
habits are to stay out late,
. ‘Lrv morning, just at the instant
S out the light,
Eft thump and bellow at the
“Are you staying tonight?
los ceaselessly and still expect
Kjp instead of dirty looks,
4it dearly states you are staying
ifortnight downstairs in the hotel
I filin’to assume that having booked
y bed, you wont seriously want
lulieinit, ...... ,
lllpu do and are still in it in the
1 timing that they have to racket
00 till you’re awake in case you
iit in it.
fri do find themselves thus up be-
gs they’re properly down, with no
ill » pardons,
ty just as well climb over the fence
ini go to sleep with the kooka-
hirras in an acacia baileyana or
mtopetalum gummiferum in the
Manical Gardens.
hill knew where some of these house-
mis keep their bedroom doors;
Hump there on the way home in the
mornings and interrupt their snores.
m
LAN HEALY.


unexpectedly as he had returned. Mother,
speaking to the baker, asked him to
keep a look-out for the dog on his
rounds and he remarked that it was
queer what was happening to the dogs
about the place as Mrs. So-and-So had
asked him a couple of days ago to
watch-out for her Labrador, which was
also missing. At the self-service later
in the day, Mum and Mrs. So-and-So
in conversation: “Oh, by the way, Mrs.
So-and-So, how did you happen to lose
your dog?” “Mmm . . . dog? Oh, dog.
Oh, he just went away one night, but it’s
all right again now, you know; he came
home this morning, and he was wearing
a muzzle and a collar and dragging a
new chain. Why ever anyone would put
"It's Chinese food, and I’ve brought chopsticks.”
all that stuff on poor Fido I don’t know.
He’s such a gentle thing, and he’d never
bite anybody, I’m sure!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Dash D.”: Part of the salvage from
the wrecked Falls of Halliday (not
“Halladale,” B. 10/8/’6O) was thousands
of tins of benzine. As these floated
ashore they received the pick-point of
a harbor official who, alone, was power-
less to protect the cargo. The benzine
floated on the waves until along came
someone with a lighted match, and for
some time several hundred yards of
ocean blazed fiercely in the darkness.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Zorok”: Goulburn (N.S.W.) has an
alderman surnamed Alderman and a
police-sergeant named Charge. Another
Goulburn police-sergeant, Sgt. Catt, has
been seen driving around town in a new
police-car with its number-plates lettered
CAT.
❖ ❖ ♦+♦
“Joanne”: The Roman Catholic
Church has begun construction of a
chapel for inner-city workers at New-
castle (N.S.W.) in Morgan Street on the
site of a building formerly used as New-
castle Customs House ; in 1840 Henry
Parkes, a young migrant, worked there
for a time as a Customs clerk.
'T'he prosecutor (Sergeanf Hill) and
other police at Newcastle (N.S.W.)
Court tried hard to get a plea
from a New Australian charged with
drunkenness, but the New Aussie didn’t
understand. Sitting next to the charged
man in the dock was another foreigner,
At last he said in a hoarse stage-
whisper, “Vos you drunk—or vosn’t
you?” The light dawned. “Ah,” said
the defendant; “yes, I vos drunk.”
The magistrate sentenced him to the ris-
ing and everyone was happy.—“Judee.”
v v v
“K.B.W.”:> “Buderim’s” tilt at the
A.B.C. about Miss Fletcher winning the
Open Golf Championship by 10 and 9
which iircludes the 19th hole (B.
17 /8 / ’6O) —he should make a better study
of the game. The final was played over
36 holes, and Miss Fletcher was 10-up
after the 27th, leaving 9 holes to play.
No doubt they enjoyed the 19th at the
27th.
“A.S.M.”: If the A.B.C. is correctly
quoted by “Buderim” (B. 17/8/’6O) Miss
Fletcher has not received the publicity
due to a world-record breaker. Fine
player though she is, it is hardly possible
that she could defeat some of the best
male amateur and professional golfers
in Australia over 72 holes stroke-play,
that being the mode of play of the
Queensland Open Championship. No
doubt the A.B.C. referred, or intended
to refer, to the Queensland L.G.U.
Championship, the final of which is
played over 36 holes match-play. In that
event, not only is a 10-and-9 victory
possible, but it constitutes an easy win.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ex-ACT”: Wife-member of the team
which runs our corner shop, with almost
old-world courtesy and better than chain-
store efficiency, finds winter a much
better time than summer. “In summer,”
she says, “customers dither ; they decide
not to have a cool bottle out of the
refrigerator and then, as I walk back,
they think they’ll have one a \
later they send little Johnny dol* r Ur
few things and an ice-cream Th\ ° r a
weather makes them bad-temnerL ,
in general, there’s a lot more work f.’
more return. In these cold days the! 1 00
their complete order ready b e f or l l ave
come ,to the shop. They don’t wan!?
make a second trip, and they se t thm,!
quickly to get back to the fire it’s ?
better in winter.”
♦> *> ♦♦♦
“Jock”: The little Devon town of
Totnes, William John Wills’s birthplace
is putting on a show on June 21 W
to mark the centenary of his’ death
exploring Australia with Burke. The
Totnes Council hopes that plenty 0 f
Australians will visit the town next year
and is thinking of installing a “Wills
Room” in the council chambers with a
library on modern Australia.
THE NEWEST NOSTRUM
“The doctor-patient relationship can often
be improved, in cases where the patient is
querulous, too-talkative or frightened, by fc
application of a little banter and light-total
diversion.” — Medical journal.
Should your patient consider it vital
To give you an organ recital,
While over small detail he lingers,
Refrain from displaying the dolors,
Irascibly grinding your molars,
Impatiently drumming your fingers.
He might seem to you like a zombie,
Be as gloomy as Dickens’s Dombey,
Or let himself get into tantrums.
Don’t join him in being splenetic;
Just joyfully give an emetic,
Or hilariously talk of his antrums.
He complains, say, of being quite bloatel ,
His ears sing, his tongue is fur-coatei;
He feels just as if he had swallowed
Some sump-oil; he wakes up, a-shiver;
Large hobnails envelop his liver;
In long back-ache torment he’s wal-
lowed.
His ingrowing warts have been pain-
ful. ...
Interruption at this point is gainful,
For he could, if let go, blow a gasket.
His misery soon you’ll be ending
If you laughingly start at pretending
To measure him up for his casket.
The highly-strung patient it vexes
To be told that he has no reflexes.
That some organ that should, doesn
function.
So switch, in your manner most rWm<
By saying that perhaps beruberi
With his hawking could go in (
junction. f!l
Thus his morbid mind you’ll be dive
From thoughts that could be discon
He’ll be feeling much better, l ' nstai ’j
And much less will squeamishness
If determined you are to chiack him
So prescribe for yourself lots oj
ter I
N.S.W.
S.W.K


Inns ago, before the postal-
l S ° cnared to 3d. a pop, one
TaS*of stamps at the p.-o
W ht . a information about postal
10 r now, although a dollar book
P\ , _* Ves you *a dozen stamps, it
"■I L postal information. It does
? ' M !how to travel with Electra Mk.
, S Count IPs; Whom to bank
“ it is a personal pleasure to do
* re . a i so to insist on a certain
'frJ se lf-adhesive cellulose tape for
JL-power. You are recommended
! ! o learn the French they speak
and what to do to ensure
letter being carried by air within
1 ilia' you are warned not to risk
by possessing a TV or radio with-
a licence and finally you are solicited
advertise in stamp-books, of which
1 are sold annually. If you
i to know the airmail letter-rate to
upland you may, with all humility,
i J ro ach an official who will tell you
ins 2s. 3d., while that to the U.S. is 2s.
If you ask the reason for this foreign
preferential rate you will be informed:
j *]| a t is the rate as laid down.” And
]«wonder, as your thoughts go back
u lie old, old days of the All Red Route
lien preferential rates existed within
i the Empire, why the difference between
Empire and Commonwealth? —“Gelt.”
* ❖ +>
“Tekma”r First new-style restaurant-
fence under Victoria’s liberalised liquor-
laws, issued in Melbourne on August 16,
permits the serving of both Australian
and imported wines and spirits with
meals from noon to 10 p.m. Previously
licences were restricted to Australian
wines. Beer is not allowed to be served.
Restaurateurs (and club committees) in
the capital’s eastern suburbs Dry Belt
won’t share in the rain of licences ; the
area went on the wagon in 1916 follow-
ing a local-option poll. Bustling, pros-
perous Burke Road, Camberwell, marks
the western boundary of the scorched-
earth section; one side’s dry, the other
wet-very wet: commodious hotel,
sundry licensed grocers, and probably
soon a “liquor served with meals” sign
•side some of the smart Continental-
vf ca fes in this typically middle-class
suburb.
❖ * ♦!-
Nico”: “Tabba,” in his rush to
orrect J. C. Shelley’s story, has stubbed
m toe (B- 10/8/’6O) on semi-diesels.
’ . as truck-operators, are well
quainted with semi-trailers, diesel, or
, 0 °r kerosene-driven. Their true
u e Articulated transport-vehicle.”
off th° mt contention is: “Switching-
down\ 1§ f mtlon and dropping the key
js. tt ae ront - of her dress.” The ques-
“Tabh • s one start a d i ese l engine,
Ever , wlt hout an auxiliary motor?
er tr,ed cranking one?
fead' J '4” : Reckon '‘Tabba” should
again m Ve , r ft , tke Mountain to Candy”
bble-ton 1 0/8/ ’ 6 O). Dan’s truck was a
felt tJ .. 'f e^se would Candy have
- timber pressing against the
cabin? —so the reference to the truck as
a semi-diesel is correct. Semi-diesels of
my acquaintance (not wide, admittedly)
do use an ignition-system, starting with
a spark-plug like an ordinary combustion-
engine, then exploding the diesel fuel
by compression. Such engines are used
on tractors. But almost every diesel
engine on tractor or truck does have an
ignition-key, without which it is impos-
sible to start the engine. However, .turn-
ing-off the key after the engine has
started to run doesn’t stop the motor —
to that extent “Tabba” is right. Drop-
ping the key down the front of her dress
wouldn’t have stopped a friend of mine,
either —at least, that’s what he says.
■***■ ♦+<• +**
“P.0.M.C.”: So hooliganism and
bodgieism have arrived at last in con-
servative New Zealand; which ugly
condition now might truly be said to
be world-wide (B. 17/8/’6O). But I doubt
that it is “an inevitable result of Welfare
State pampering.” Quite the reverse.
Child - welfare authorities blame the
wholesale pandering to, and commer-
cialisation of, teenagers as a group by
Big Business ; from radio - stations to
milk-bars. This, they say, handicaps or
lessens the influence of schoolteachers
and parents, parental control already
having been weakened by both parents
being breadwinners, to the disciplinary
neglect of their children.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Jock”: Education Week in N.S.W.
left me with rueful memories. 1 was sent
by the editor to a Sydney suburban
school to give a talk on newspaper pro-
duction, the senior boys having launched
a multigraphed school-magazine. I made
the fatal error of asking at the close:
“Any questions?” If you’ve ever faced
40 or so eager-beaver boys in the 10-12
years age-group, you’ll know what I
mean when I say I was floored. After
it was all over, a boy sidled up to me
and put it this way: “Eh, Mr. ,
how’d you go about this ? If a Japanese
reporter in Tokyo, who couldn’t speak
a word of English, wanted to send a story
to, say, Sydney, what would he do about
it?” Well, I fled!
“Hullo, dear ! Shall We meet at The Summit?”


POLITICAL POINTS
XiyHEN the Budget session of the N.S.W.
* * Parliament opened the Legislative
Council didn’t lose much time in show-
ing the Heffron Government that it was
unrepentant. When the Attorney-General
tabled a report on the joint meeting of
the two Houses on the question of a
deadlock on Upper House abolition
Opposition-leader Clayton moved that the
report should not be entered in the pro-
ceedings of the Council. Seven “rebel”
Labor M.L.C.’s voted with the Opposi-
tion and the motion was carried by 30
votes to 20.
The constitutionality of the joint meet-
ing of April 20 is still under challenge
in the Supreme Court. By a majority
vote the Legislative Council decided not
to attend, but Labor M.L.C.’s ignored
the vote and went along, with the excep-
tion of the President, W. E. Dickson,
who stayed away on the advice of the
Attorney-General. The Supreme Court
has heard the case but has not yet given
its decision.
With the Council in this mood the
Government faces stormy weather for
as far ahead as it can see.
• e
Recent tariff bills provided a fascinat-
ing study for students of Australian
politics. They were introduced by Trade
Minister McEwen, leader of the Country
party, which in its early days was a bitter
opponent of tariffs, blaming them on
city interests. To add point to the con-
trast, the bills were opposed by the
Opposition, despite Labor’s traditional
high-tariff policy.
• •
If decimal coinage comes in with a
smallest coin worth 1.2 d. it may influence
wool auctions. At present a bid may be
made in farthings. This may have been
in order when wool was under a shilling
a pound, but it seems out of place in the
50d.-100d. range.
• •
CJydney City Council (which really
Lord Mayor Jensen and his
Labor caucus) has been saved the em-
barrassment of having to rescind per-
mission for the opening of a “fun-
parlor” at King’s Cross. The sponsors
of the project have withdrawn their
application. The proposal had drawn
strong protests from residents of the area,
the local Chamber of Commerce, the
police, King’s Cross clergy and the King’s
Cross branch of the A.L.P. All these
bodies hold that fun-parlors are a bad
influence on the youth of the commu-
nity and are often a congregating-place
for delinquents and a breeding-place for
petty crime. Civic Reform aldermen
opposed the original motion and lodged
a notice of a rescission-motion, which
was to have been dealt with on Monday
(August 29).
On Saturday it was announced that
the application had been withdrawn.
• •
In a rather strange outburst Calwell
attacked Queensland M.H.R.s on the
Government side, saying:
I have never seen a more useless and
inept collection of people than represent
Queensland . . . Queensland has 15
Government members in the Federal
Parliament. They may as well have 15
lamp-posts. They never raise their voices
or cross to the Opposition side when
Queensland issues are discussed. These
men are not real Queenslanders. They
just happen to represent that State. They
come down here to pander to the big
interests of Sydney and Melbourne.
Coming from Arthur, this appeal to
members to vote against their party is
rather rich. In 1955 six Victorian Labor
just that and were thrown
out of the party. The real offence of
the 15 lamp-posts is that they are Libs,
or C.P. men. If they were Labor mem-
bers Arthur wouldn’t care if they were
telegraph-poles as long as they fell the
right way when the division-bells rang.
• •
A T a time when the A.C.T.U. is tooling-
up for its campaign for a 35-hour
week the Department of Labor and
Industry has issued a report on a survey
on overtime which seems to ‘fhdicate
rather clearly that even a 40-hour week
is only possible provided a considerable
“Wouldn’t that send you up the wall—I hate decimals!”
amount of overtime i s work -
vey, which covered a 7 ' The %-
S rou £ ° f £ f tories " showed
one-third of employees averats nt,,l >
than seven hours’ overtime * ®ore
another way this means that f "
working-week in industry k f ffectlv e
hours. y at least 42
It follows that a 35-hour week
merely mean a reduction in 7 K Would
of hours worked at £££*£*.
an increase in the hours 7 s
In other words, the change
be a disguised rise in pay 5 m «I
creased amount of leisure as the Ar-rJ
professes to believe.
• *
[From Canberra]
Reports that Prime Minister Menzi es
faces a stiff backbench revolt because
is taking over the Treasury portfnl,!
in Harold Holt’s absence have no foi
tion whatsoever. There’s resentment
among some of the private member?
but talk of a revolt is nonsense There
are many other aspects of policy M
which any revolt-minded members could
stand up to the P.M. with much more
chance of success.
Menzies is not trying to turn theft*
ernment into a one-man band, as®,
gested by Laborite Daly last weel
Rather he feels that most ’of his
Ministers are so busy with their own port-
folios that it would be unfair to saddle
any of them with another chore. He him-
self gets able assistance from Navy
Minister Gorton in the routine tasks of
the Prime Minister’s and External Affairs
Departments, and he feels that he is in a
better position than other Ministers to
carry on the Treasurer’s duties.
The P.M. is so firmly entrenched as
leader of the Government that any revoli
would have to be on a major issue of
policy to cause even a ruffle within the
Liberal party.


irrnN criticism of Menzies for
(fSover the Treasury in Holt’s
abroad when he is already
Spring External Affairs in addi-
0 01 !l duties probably
»« tO “L from a desire to attack the
from concern for the efficient
$ lt3 r the departments. Ben Chifley
' Treasury for the entire term
- prime Ministership, and Dr. Evatt
*5 the jobs of Attorney-General
internal Affairs, on two occasions
;i ; prime Minister as well. Except
1 six months of Joe Lyons’s
JJLjes is the first Prime Minister
Apeakin (1909-10) to hold the post
' a iso administering a department
jj a permanent basis.
• •
Stnngest criticism of the Budget came
( ia Di.P. Senator Cole, whose com-
xpt ffa s that rumors about increased
Jon beer and cigarettes before the
j j,jj C t had resulted in little criticism
iile Budget itself because “people were
s iiieved when excise wasn't increased.”
« •
fttoria has another Parliamentary
bj-election coming up for the seat of a
' It member who had a very strong per-
iona/ following. It is the outer Mel-
«e district of Scoresby, held by the
ilc Sir George Knox for the L.C.P.,
tie last elections with a 3600 margin
»the combined A.L.P. and D.L.P.
* There are 3000 new, mostly young,
| electors in Scoresby who will vote on
September 17.
George Knox was highly respected
hr the 33 years he held the seat for the
libs. Bill Borthwick, who had been
his galloping companion and is now the
Literal choice, was scheduled to have
is first public try-out last night.
• •
The N. S. Wales Public Service Board
is pained that the general public “seem
i hold. . . despite ample evidence to
the contrary” the “mid-Victorian” view
«public servants are “mediocre in
obsessed with the idea of security,
of ambition and initiative and
!®ng the spirit of adventure.” It cites,
to disprove this horrid slander
ihHom tbe “ c^ie f de mission of
m | Olympic Games team is aN. S.
e $ public servant and that for some
J prober of the p.s. has been an
j n ra iai L selector and another
fc f is V U P selector.” It left out the
kvi/'^ tm ent example—that the Public
“ oar d itself consists of confirmed
y v : n S^ Vants - It is the most sporting
ire c oncerned° rlti where public servants
• •
owlishness Jack Tripo-
A.L.p V sec mta r y of the Victorian
vote c arfl £r "investigating” a how-to-
ployee&' it m tbe eat Industry Em-
D.L.p niol ?> as announced that the
o°mmunLt gatlOns °I collusion between
to hav e k an< * members appear
bclc .U nl °u nded. Whom does
ficial innnir- ls l°°ling by these super-
H le s and inevitable findings?
Adolf Eichmann, now awaiting trial
in Israel on a charge of organising the
wartime murder of six-million Jews, has
selected as his defence counsel Dr.
Robert Servatius, of Cologne. Servatius,
who appeared in the Nuremberg war
trials, has been authorised by Eichmann’s
brother (who lives in Austria) to take
all measures necessary for the defence.
A special law will have to be passed by
Israel’s Parliament, the Knesset, to allow
Dr. Servatius to appear as counsel in an
Israeli court. The date of the trial has
not yet been announced.
• •
E. W. Peters, one of Eddie Ward’s
Labor colleagues, last week asked the
P.M. to have Eddie promoted to the
House of Lords, a humorous sally which
perhaps covered the concealed yearnings
of a lot of members of caucus. As Lord
Ward of the Brisbane Line and Garden
Path Eddie would be more popular than
as the Banquo’s Ghost of the caucus
front bench. Every time Calwell and
his deputy sight him their lips can be
seen framing the words, “Out, damned
spot! ” —or something with the same
meaning.
• •
TV/Tinister for Labor McMahon told a
Labor member who had indignantly
asked whether he expected Australian
seamen to work “like galley slaves” that
they didn’t work as hard as M.Ps. He
might have added, however, that sea-
men in some circumstances endanger
their lives if they go to sleep on the job,
while M.H.Rs. are able to indulge that
little luxury without risk, and often do.
• •
Calwell at his best:
The iniquitous feature of the close
relationship between the banks and hire-
purchase speculators is . . . that a person
refused a loan by a bank is advised to
consult the hire-purchase subsidiary of the
bank, where a loan will be granted at a
scandalously high rate of interest on
exactly the same security, not acceptable
to the parent organisation.
Arthur has apparently never heard of
the main reason why banks are just now
refusing loans and why borrowers are
being forced to go to high-interest hire-
purchase firms. It is called the Common-
wealth Reserve Bank and it has the
power—heartily approved by Labor —of
restricting the lending-power of trading
banks at its own sweet will.
• •
W. R. Bladwell, managing-director of
Wool Export, Ltd. (Goulburn, N.S.W.),
back from a tour of Russian sheep-
country, says that whereas in 1935 about
70 per cent, of Soviet sheep were “native
sheep, fat-tails and Karakuls,” last year
fine-wooled Merinos comprised 70 per
cent, of the flocks. Russia now claims
130-million sheep, compared with Aus-
tralia’s 155 million. Bladwell doesn’t
consider the growth of the Russian wool
industry is a threat to our own, as he
thinks the increase in world population
and “universal acceptance of wool” will
mean an increasing demand.
In viewing Russia as a possible com-
petitor in the world wool-market it
should be remembered that, unlike Aus-
tralia, the Soviet has a huge domestic
demand to meet before exports are con-
sidered.
• •
the world press has obligingly
- stressed the fairness of the Moscow
trial of U-2 pilot Powers some lone
papers have put the position more pre-
cisely—e.g., the “Times”:
The trial has shown that only a man
who admits total guilt can be given a fair
hearing in Russia and treatment in accord-
ance with civilised law. It proves nothing
. . . about the workings of the Soviet
legal system in the trial of men who do
not admit guilt.
• •
Labor in the Westralian Parliament
has decided to ban “pairs” until the
Brand Government issues a proclamation
for a redistribution of seats. The com-
posite Government has 25 seats on the
floor of the Assembly, compared with
Labor’s 24, so the Government will now
need to keep a full muster of supporters
to avoid defeat.
• •
Respectability may be returning in
national finance. The sniping at Harold
Holt’s Federal Budget-with-a-balance
was so desultory and short-lived that the
Treasury in Spring Street, Melbourne, is
now talking about a balance in the State
Budget to be introduced on September
15. Last year Victoria budgeted for a
deficit of more than £1 million, but
ended with a surplus of £300,000,
Bolte’s first. Nobody was more pleased
than the Premier, or more surprised.
• •
“Collins Street”: Whoever would have
thought Air-Marshal Sir George Jones
would stand for a conservative seat such
as Henty, the Victorian Federal elec-
torate held by the Libs?
He’s president of the Mentone branch
of the A.L.P. and a staunch Laborite, no
matter how distressed some Federal
Labor M.Ps. may profess to be at the
prospect of a Labor candidate with a
handle to his name. Still, it isn’t likely
they will be embarrassed by his presence
on the Opposition benches in Canberra
—not as the Man from Henty, at any
rate.
• •
Tf a decimal coinage based on a ten-
shilling unit is finally adopted it’s
to be hoped some better name than the
suggested “austral” will be found for
the new half-quid. At the lower end of
the scale it seems to be taken for granted
that the term “cent” will be used. That
may be the official intention, but if
officialdom thinks it can kill the penny
by changing its value it had better think
again. The penny has a history which
goes back at least 1200 years, and the
name has survived transitions from silver,
to copper to bronze. The United States
switched to dollars and cents about 170
years ago, yet the word penny is still used
colloquially in America. Bing Crosby
doesn’t sing about it raining cents from
Heaven.


Personal
ITEMS
“N.A.8.”: During the last war a
guerrilla-leader in the Philippines jungle,
Jose M. Manglicmot is now more peace-
fully employed as acting-chief of the
agronomy section of the Philippines
Department of Agriculture. A Master
of Public Administration, with a B.Sc.
from Arneta University, the only private
university in the Philippines, Manglicmot
is one of four Filipino students at present
doing research in Australia under the
Colombo Plan. He is studying wheat-
improvement and soil-fertility at Wagga
Wheat Research Institute, while his co-
students are doing wheat-research at
Victorian and South Australian institutes.
• •
Appointed chairman of the Overseas
Telecommunications Commission, which
administers overseas telephone and tele-
graph links, Postal Director M. R. C.
Stradwick was born in Fremantle and
had his schooling in Perth, joining the
G.P.O. in 1920. He will combine the
new job with that of Director-General
because, Postmaster-General Davidson
explains, there’s a need for keeping the
work of the commission integrated with
that of the Post Office.
WILLIAM PYE BADDELEY, Dean of
Brisbane, who’s a member of the English
stage family - brother of Angela and
Hermione - started his ministry with
parish-work in south and s.-e. London,
and since then has done a lot of radio
and TV work. He came to Queensland
in 1958, is interested in music, theatre,
tennis and photography, and has another
interest that’s shared by most Australians
—he can enjoy a mild flutter at the races.
“Jock”: Brigadier H. W. Le Patourel,
V.C., whom many Aussies will remember
from the North African campaign, has
been appointed Deputy Commander of
the Ghanaian Army. He transferred to
the Hampshire Regiment from the Royal
Guernsey Militia in 1937 and won the
decoration while serving with them in
1942. Since the war he has been an
instructor at Quetta Staff College and at
the British School of Infantry, done a stint
with the Parachute Regiment and another
at the War Office,. and commanded
a Territorial Army battalion of the Royal
Hampshire. The last two years he has
been a member of the British Joint Ser-
vices Mission in Washington. Major-
General H. T. Alexander, another British
officer, who took a Ghana force to the
Congo to join the U.N. contingent, is
Chief of the Ghanaian Defence Staff.
• •
Just past his 95th milestone in Perth,
retired postman George Redfern is the
oldest former Commonwealth Govern-
ment employee living in Westralia. He
started delivering letters on horseback in
1897, and he’s seen a change or two —
where there’s now a well - populated
suburb he once found in the bush a safe
that had been stolen from a city hotel.
• •
Announced soon after the appoint-
ment of Frederick Boski Tom to the
Papua-New Guinea Education Advisory
Board (B. 24/8/’6O) was the appointment
of Papuan Elliot Elijah, to the Native
Loans Board. Elijah, fourth member of
the board, and its first native member,
has been with the Co-op. section of the
Native Affairs Department for the last
ten years as an inspector and, more re-
cently, teacher-in-charge of the Co-
operative Education Centre in Port
Moresby. Up north during the Mt.
Lamington eruption in 1951, he was
awarded the M.B.E. for his part in the
subsequent rescue-work.
• •
Charles Blackman—Sydney-born artist
who had been living in Melbourne for
the past 10 years before lately moving
to Brisbane —won the Helena Rubinstein
Travelling Art Scholarship when it was
judged in Melbourne for the first time
last week; the two previous contests
had been held in Sydney. The £l3OO
prize goes to pay an artist’s way abroad
while travelling for a year. Blackman,
who sold £4OOO-worth of paintings at a
recent Brisbane show, won by one vote
from Leonard French, after 11 artists,
from N.S.W., Queensland and Victoria,
had been asked to submit a series of
five pictures each. The contemporary
show stirred the art-critics in Melbourne.
They reported it was new, sad, exciting,
depressing, sensational and limited ; but
those adverbs aren’t from the same
columns.
Roughly 12ft. tall a
and smoking a pi pe as m
hammer, V. M. Branson a %
when he called at The Rt ° med large
and seems likely to loom it^ 1 • °%
tralian publishing. He i 111 Aus.
director of Rigby’s in
over in Sydney to open a n
office at Newtown. The firm w J 3ranch-
ine hr m, which has
RIGBY’S BOSS
been bookselling for 101 years, has lately
much expanded its publishing, and is
particularly interested in a series of Aus-
tralian reprints. They will publish, says
Branson, worth-while Australian boots
with a necessary ration of bestsellers-
three books due shortly are Colin Thiele's
poems, a novel by R. E. B. Morris aid
Keith Smith’s A Word from Children.
lan Mudie is the firm’s editor, and Bran-
son says that, among other virtues,
Mudie can read a manuscript quickly.
• •
Recently farewelled in Melbourne at
a gathering of the woollies, A. F. Bechet-
vaise has been associated with the in-
dustry for more than 50 years. A veteran
of two wars, he is one of Australia’s most
senior wool-valuers, and played a major
part, as technical officer in charge o
southern markets, in the establishment ot
the Wool Bureau’s statistical service.
• «
A record probably unique in Austra-
lian local - government is held by ®
Brennan family of Strathfieldsaye,
miles north-west of Melbourne. Succe
sively, father, son and gratnddaug
have been secretary of StrathfieldJ*
Shire Council, their tenures ot
aggregating 90 years. An Irish nag ’
Michael Brennan was a member o
first council in 1866, and was seer ■
from 1870 to 1895, when his son M
succeeded him. Richard’s da
Margaret gained her accountancy
municipal-clerk’s certificates by


, olirseS and worked as her
€o*. »«”* over from him
!, retired m 1944.
i • •
era ls were pall-bearers at the
PI jviajor-General Sir Samuel
rL distinguished .soldier and
r sir Samuel was buried with
fL honors. A soldier of both
i£ he served with the First
'' Gallipoli and in War II became
i ' General of Army Medical Ser-
iated an honorary physician to
MfVl.in 1945, he was also
; of the Royal Colleges of
iA, s of London, Edinburgh and
I : and since 1948 had been Medi-
! Vector of the Australian Red Cross
r 1 \ Knight of the Order of St.
B Jerusalem, he was created a
El Bachelor in 1952. For the past
Bhe was chairman of the Moonee
tracing Club.
| • •
llljrd Russell, lately appointed
; #c-manager of the N.S.W. Rail-
,a Scot frae Lochgelly, Fifeshire.
•3-old when his father, a mining-
was killed in a mine explosion,
vat to Australia with his mother
•aff brother, and has been steadily
I lip in the Railways since 1922,
4 from one post to another, mostly
iitiieving capacity, and seeing most
Mate by the time War II came along,
p senior traffic-inspector, stationed at
■a and with his area of responsibility
tiiigfrom Kempsey to Brisbane, he learnt
iinistrative side of railway-working
4 long hours and hard work to keep
r> the massive loads of troops and
a for Queensland and the battlefields
si
to that he learnt more of it in another
ph flooding of the Richmond and
|«fin 1948, and a year later the disas-
s Kempsey floods, set top railmen tough
las restoring services and getting relief
Ida victims. Made chief inspector in
IS 1 1 foe section from Parkes to Broken
|»;l»0, Russell was the right man on
RAILW AYMAN
the spot when the Lachlan and Darling over-
flowed their banks and brought widespread
devastation to the west. His experience on
the northern rivers meant that communica-
tions were restored and relief effected in what
must have been record times.
Next, he had barely settled down at. Orange
as district superintendent when disaster struck
again, in the opposite way. In the drought
of 1951-52 Broken Hill’s water-supply failed,
and the Silver City was left entirely dependent
on the N.S.W. Railways to pull it through
and keep the mines going. Jack Russell got
busy with his trains. In a six-month period
1516 trains ran a shuttle-service from Menindee
to Broken Hill, freighting just under 139-
million gallons of water. At one stage 19
trains a day were operating.
About the time Neal McCusker was
appointed Commissioner for Railways Russell
returned to Sydney and, as commercial-manager
of the traffic branch, soon showed he had a
keen nose for business by introducing bulk-
loading to the system. Since then (1956) bulk-
loading has been introduced to 54 country
towns and has given a boost to
rail-finances. Now not long back from Si-
months travelling through the U.K., France,
Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Holland, Sweden,
the U.S. and Canada studying passenger and
freight operational techniques with a view to
introducing improvements here, Jack Russell,
at 56, is a dedicated railwayman, typical of
the able men Commissioner McCusker has
gathered about him.
• ®
New permanent head of the Victorian
Health Department is George Stafford,
now secretary of the Mental Hygiene
Authority. He’s had 46 years in the
Victorian public service, 11 of them with
the Public Service Board.
• •
“Xavier”: Another of Melbourne’s
recently appointed Q.C.’s, R. J. Davern
Wright is a grandson of the late Robert
Wright, former Mayor of Emerald Hill
(South Melbourne) and after whom
Wright Street, Albert Park, is named.
The legal Wright added to his LL.B. an
M.A. at Melbourne University, taking
first - class honors in Classics. After
a war-time spell as chief Japanese inter-
preter with the 9th Div. in Borneo he
specialised in equity and is the author
of a standard work on the rights of
testators’ families. Wright read law with
E. H. (Ted) Hudson, now a Victorian
Supreme Court judge.
• •
Recently appointed Stipendiary Magis-
trate for Kalgoorlie, Arthur Edward Kay
gained his B.A. and a Diploma of Com-
merce from the Westralian University
before War II interrupted his studies.
Demobbed after five years’ service, in
which he gained captain’s rank, he re-
sumed his studies, taking his LL.B. in
1949. Since then he has been a partner
in a Perth firm of solicitors.
• •
At 33 the youngest on record to hold
the job, D. A. H. Clark is South Aus-
tralian manager of the Shell Co. of Aus-
tralia. These last two years he has taken
great interest in planning the Royal
Adelaide Show preview-tours which his
company has sponsored.
Born in Dublin, Clark graduated in law
from Oxford, where he was at Oriel
College, and started work with the British
Treasury. He joined the Shell organisa-
tion in London in 1951 and served in
Nairobi, Cairo, Aden and as manager in
Cyprus before coming to Australia two
years ago. While in the Middle East he
travelled extensively in Yemen and
Ethiopia and has some excellent paintings
of these parts in the house he’s now rent-
ing at Crafers. His wife, a Sydney girl who
OIL
was a hostess with 8.0.A.C., made head-
lines in the English papers when she put
a sub-unit of the Egyptian Army to the
right-about on the Heliopolis airfield in
the days when Nasser was beginning to
encourage his men to play the little
dictator.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 88, H. C. Quodling, one of
the earliest graduates from Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College. Around the turn of the
century he managed the Westbrook and
Hermitage experimental farms on the Darling
Downs. Acting-principal of Gatton Agricul-
tural College just prior to War I, he was
appointed Director of Agriculture for Queens-
land in 1915. From the early ’thirties until
his retirement he had been general-manager of
the Agricultural Bank.
In Sydney, at 84, Stan (“Monty”) Wickham,
one of Australia's greatest Rugby Union wing-
threequarters, who played for N. S. Wales and
Australia around the turn of the century, visit-
ing England with the first “Kangaroos.” Stan
opened the first store at Avalon over 50 years
ago, trading by horse-and-sulky to the scattered
residents from Rock Lily to Palm Beach.
In Sydney, at 82, Harry (“Jersey”) Flegg,
for 33 years president of the New South Wales
Rugby League and connected with the League
movement since it began in 1908. He was
president of the Australian Board of Control
and during his career had been both State
and Australian selector. Three English League
clubs and the French Rugby League gave
recognition to his services to the game by
life-memberships.
In Darwin, at 92, Phoebe Farrar, Northern
Territory pioneer, who had lived in the lonely
“Never-Never” since 1882. Once she drove 3t)U
head of cattle over 400 miles with only one
station-hand and a dog to help her.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 71, Alfred William
(Bill) Ledbrook, one of New Zealand's beSt-
known fire-officers. Soldier of the first war,
he was wounded on Gallipoli and later in
France.
In Sydney, at 80, Abraham (Abe) Smith,
who served in the Boer War, World War I
(M.M. in France) and enlisted for garrison
duty in War 11.


ABORIGINALITIES
CJtarting on a fencing job with a
fellow-Maori, Hori couldn’t make it
out when that new mate shook his head
and said, as he was digging the first
post-hole: “Not much left now; not
much at all.” As the hole was then only
about four-inches deep, Hori asked:
“What you mean, ‘not much left’?” The
answer rocked Hori a trifle: “Not much
left of my old granddad—he’s been dead
twenty years.”—“O.W.W.”
* * * *
“Amdee”: From July to October is
whale-time in Barrier Reef waters, and
the fisherman who follows the mackerel-
shoals during these months spends many
an anxious hour at night as his boat
lies at anchor off some reef or sand-cay,
and he hears the thundering crash of
mighty flukes bashing the sea close by.
“He has his father's nose!"
It is then that the man whose boat is
fitted with a small diesel-driven re-
frigerating-plant can sleep undisturbed
by the distant sound of whales at play,
or fighting for their lives, for this little
motor chugging away for most of the
night is a first-class whale-discourager.
* * * *
“Fairf”: No doubt, as an Aboite has
helpfully suggested, a branch from a
coolibah-tree would be a better weapon
of chastisement than a horsewhip, but
for some strange reason a horsewhip
has always been considered a means of
heaping ignominy as well as suffering on
the victim. Unless I have my historical
characters mixed-up, the irascible Dr.
Bland (who planted “The Oak” at Fair-
field, which has now been preserved for
its historical link with him) once took
pians were a proportion only of all those,
averaging 60 a day, who admired the
panorama. Americans among them de-
clared that Victoria just didn’t know
how to exploit the place.
* * * hs
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Although there was
some anti - European feeling in the
December riots, it was a carefully-
directed demonstration and not the true
feelings of the Fijian people. Most
feel that if any real racial trouble
breaks out, it will be between
Fijians and Indians. A lightning one-
day strike was called on our field recently.
In the morning, an Indian carpenter,
ignorant of the strike, turned-up to
work on someone’s laundry. A Fijian
walked past and saw him hammering
away. “Hey, Kai India,” the Fijian
called out, “do you want to die? There’s
action for libel—with a horsewhip. In
much more recent times an alderman of
an adjacent municipality featured in a
little horsewhipping drama. IJnlike the
Mayor of Nyngan, he was on the wrong
end of the whip. Although an ex-boxer
of some repute, the attacked Civic
Father did no more in retaliation than
wrestle the whip from the aggressor’s
hand. There wasn’t really much more
he could do. After all, what can a
gentleman do when he is being horse-
whipped by a —but does a lady horse-
whip people?
y * * * *
“M’Lou”: Last fire season the 7894
visitors from many overseas countries
and those from all Australian States who
signed the address-book of the fire-spotter
at Reed’s lookout in the Victorian Gram-
a strike on.” The Indian downed
and bolted. * m Ns
* * &
* *
“Rob Mac Austral”: The fruit w ,
on the Victorian side of the
Wodonga is known as “the mad I‘
Men are stationed there 24 hour
prevent the terrible fruit-fly entering Vir
£ , s " eet y°“ n B thing i„ a tourist h
had bought fruit to the tune of a J
and tearfully saw the quid's worth de
posited in the can as she crossed fc
border.„ Interrogated, a chap said "No
fruit”—with four lemons resting along-
side him on the seat. Into the can went
the lemons, the driver muttering nasty
things. But you can take fruit-fly g 0
N.S.W. from Victoria, as no block exists,
> * j.
“Wand.ana”: Because of strict regula-
tions lately imposed in Tasmania requir-
ing firefighting and lifesaving equip-
ment on small vessels, fishing-boats from
South Australia and Victoria, where
there is no such provision, are striking
trouble in Bass Strait waters. Two craft
from Victoria which visited the port of
Stanley have been detained by the harbor
master until they comply.
* * * *
“Tabba”: Having developed a liking ]
for kiimmel I asked for it in vain ini
pubs from Adelaide to Sydney (uninclu- 1
sive); to tease publicans in the bush I
used to ask for it and enjoy the expres-
sion on their faces —until I tried a puli
at Nyngan (B. 20 /7 / ’6O). The publican
said, “Kiimmel? That rings a bell!
He disappeared, and came back with i
dusty bottle—the only time I’ve_ had it
on the house. Bung enjoyed it, too.
“Got it off a traveller years ago, mate,
he said. “Forgot about it; wouldnj
have tried it if you hadn’t come along.
* * * *
“Ceg”: While we’re on the subject of
Murray River steamers, let me introduce
another. A genuine Mississippi
wheeler, she was moored (of f a .
sitting on the mud-bottom last ® ,
saw her) about 50 yards from the »
at Goolwa (S.A.). Named Captain M >
she lay near the memorial wh> ca ,
the spot where Sturt’s party wen
at the end of their historic journey
the Murray almost to its mouth. »
for a mere £15,000 in 1915 by the M J
River Commission, she was bro g
Australia in sections and asse
Goolwa. Tonnage about 250, s
130 ft. long and with a d^ a f pUS hing
2ft. 6in., she was employed in
barges (a stern-wheeler, re ,j, e
loaded with building-materia


v'
(Jh f 'Hts All - H€ ? s o<s€
Of Oo<Z Salesmen'


Murray River locks —about 800 tons at
a time —and worked upstream as far as
Wentworth. When the commission had
no further use for her she was bought
by the Ritchies of Goolwa (old Murray
River skippers) for £205. The intention
was to put her into the passenger-trade,
but the cost of reconditioning proved
too great, and river-traffic was falling-
off. Her engines—most powerful of any
of the river-boats —and the two wood-
burning boilers were sold as scrap', and
in 1946 she was again sold and converted
to a house-boat for the tourist-trade at
Goolwa. She was most comfortably
fitted-up. Now, was she the only stern-
wheeler on the Murray?.
“Anyone home ?”
“Drypan”: Before the Toowoomba
(Q.) show workmen cleared a grassy
corner of the grounds of green ants ;
dogs are judged there, and exhibitors
had complained that they lost points in
1959 because their pups and the ants
weren’t on the best of terms.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Purely for the sake
of argument I’ll accept “Sevenelms’s”
timberman who can walk through a
Westralian wheatbelt forest and select
from “a distance of a chain” jam-trees
that will yield fiddleback-timber. But
to prove his claim that the species con-
tains a “prevalence” of fiddteback his
timberman will have to do as well from
100 miles. That’s about as close as any
respectable timberman would go to jam-
country looking for timber, because this
isn’t timber-country, and never can be.
I’m using the term “timberman” in its
correct sense, and not taking it to in-
clude souvenir-makers. The suggestion
that any species yields a preponderance
of fiddleback —or any sort —of timber
implies a wide use of that timber ; and
jamwood has never been used in that
way to any extent, if at all. “S.’s”
attempts to make a timber-tree out of
the diminutive jamwood must be raising
some hearty chuckles in the dry country,
and among men who’ve searched, as I
have, through thousands of acres look-
ing for jam-trees big enough and straight
enough to yield one fence-post per tree.
*T'he well-informed cockatoos acclaimed
by “Justin Thyme” (B. 10/8/’6O) had
nothing on a feathered friend of mine
who included among his accomplish-
ments the ability to count up to 10.
On one occasion he slipped a figure after
passing “eight,” upon which he thought
the matter over, shook his head, and
then rasped, “Damn! I’ve forgotten that
nine again!” Then there was the one
in a country town who frequently got
the full blast of the Salvation Army,
and so learned to screech, “I’m saved,
I'm safe in the arms of Jesus”—and that
despite the fact that his owner, a pub-
keeper, was a Jew! For a third helping,
I recall a galah in a Sydney suburb who
had such a varied vocabulary that an
acquaintance of mine got thoroughly
scared of the bird and used to walk
another block to avoid him. —“Cisticola.”
* * * *
“Xavier”: Pity the family whose dog
was pictured in one of the daily rags. The
district (Vic.) ranger saw the picture,
couldn’t recall having the family’s name
on his books, paid them a visit, and
found they hadn’t a licence for the
photogenic hound or two others they
kept in the yard.
* * * *
“Murray Swagman”: The youth who
tried to fly on plonk and goose-wings
(B. 27/ 7/ ’6O) reminds me of the depres-
sion years when I was on the staff of a
dairy - factory which gave a hand - out
to tramps in return for a job stacking
6ft. firewood for the boilers. One pair
did their fatigues and collected a pound
of butter and had their billy filled with
ice-cold milk. An hour later the rail-
way-porter found them on top of the
goods-shed ; they were crows and were
going for a fly, they said. They had
mixed the milk with metho ; the poor
man’s Pegasus.
* * * *
“Jock”: Small pits on the N.S.W.
coalfields are closing one by one,
casualties in an economic war. But the
closure of one at Lithgow represents a
blow to householders in t w
Blue Mountains colliery wK are HI
a particularly low
m>ssal notices were issued to7n
ployees m July, but the NS W ci 20 *
Commission, which hari ' * tlectr ieii
order for small-coal,
grace. The quota was extend 1
another month to allow the fo '
find other markets; but noT?' 1 '
available the pit that has simni; N
washed coal to Lithgow homes
20 years has gone the way 0 f a i ?
small mines. a 0! to
* * *
* *
,T ec f : t, Fis f hi s Bin,heP «cJ
at the back of Kerang (Vi c .) we ca
plenty decent-sized ones and those £
were so big we had to just leave tb
there but among those that nearly I
away was an old-man cod with i*
gestion. Inside him was another that
didn’t get away, the cause of his dyspep.
sia, a tortoise the size of a good fo
dinner-plate.
* * * *
“Eureka”: A few years ago many of
the Katoomba (N.S.W.) shops Wat
their doors bundles of cheap m\%
sticks, and many bought them as anil
on the steep hills of the Blue Moun-
tains. Today these sticks are no lop
on view ; they seem to have gone into
the discard with hats on the Australia!
march back to the clothing-standards
of the abos.
* * * *
That par. about the Battle of Hurdcd
in 1919 (B. 3/ 8 / ’6O) rang a bell-
in fact, it started-up the whole carilk
This is how I remember it: a fatal tab
ing one night triggered-off reprisals
against a gang of deserters *
specialised in night robberies round be
camp, with sandbags and kniicft-
dusters as weapons. The first gangster
to appear in the morning was proof!
knocked-out by a Digger waiting handy
with a bed-board ; the second one,
fleeing like a rabbit through a crop.*
seized and dragged back to open-air tn
outside the Orderly Room, where
unanimous verdict of “Hang the "y
was quickly reached. Intervening o ■
were booed and counted-out, an
the time the padre arrived a rope j
over the flagpole’s yard-arm alrea
its noose round the prisoner s nec
the slack was being taken-up on
end. Popular though the P a^ ie k
took a lot of eloquence be ®
prisoner was locked in the gu
with the padre’s personal[
“Justice would be done. * t£# j
the gangsters apparently g° k
over the grapevine and went
The troops, roused to a Ji
of some sort to round thing >
a successful sortie on the y- • t 0 jl
handed-out free-issue uni _
before declaring an open no
beer at the canteen. I salle ., sso
a few days later on the o [0
and never heard what h a PP\^ ene j,"
prisoner in the guard-house."


1
: ymm
m
m
■
9?
m
E
%
a
CO
<o
iv
J3J
WHILE THE CITY SLEEPS..
While the city sleeps in the pre-dawn stillness of another \vorking day,
the railway goods yards at Darling Harbour are a-bustle.
To this great rail terminal one of the largest of its kind in the world
fruit and vegetable trains daily converge for the never ending
enactment of the law of supply and demand.
Every week an average of 3000 tons of this perishable traffic arrives
to meet the continuous demand of over million urban and rural
consumers.
For over a century the New South Wales Government Railways has
played a vital part in the movement of the agricultural wealth of this
State to the terminal markets.
For twenty-four hours in every day, the Railways is freighting meat,
flour, butter, sugar, cheese, milk, fruit and vegetables . . . the very
essentials by which we live.
In playing such a dominant role in the collection and distribution of
the wealth of this State, the New South Wales Government Railways
is serving many industries helping to a better standard of living,
people living within reach of its mighty network.
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT


i
l
I
WMmm
.N-.-.-
■ilSk
HI
zzm
mm
»/«■
SSK
m
>, Jsu
A happier choice for every occasion . . «
AnGoves WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS Sc DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY...ST. AGNES BRANDY
Business. Rollery. ETC.
H.-p. (and Other) Interest
Rates
A forecast of higher borrow-
ing-rates for hire-purchase
companies in Australia has
been made by G. L. Carter,
general manager of the Austra-
lian Guarantee Corporation.
He is not suggesting that h.-p.
lending rates will be increased,
but contemplates a shortage of
money in Australia for loan-
raising purposes.
This seems to coincide with
Treasurer Holt’s expectations
in the matter of the national
Budget. He said, on August
16, that it appears certain Aus-
tralia will not be able to borrow
as much in 1960-61 as it did in
1959-60. And he is already
offering slightly higher loan
rates.
“Within Australia,” said Mr.
Holt, “the outstanding feature
of our loan-raisings last year
was the amount of subscrip-
tions from savings-banks. These
totalled £4l million. The basic
reason for this was the excep-
tionally large increase in
savings-bank deposits during
the year. Although we can
expect further substantial sup-
port from the savings-banks
this year, it would be optimistic
to expect this to be as high as
in 1959-60.
“Taking all considerations
into account, the Government
does not feel that it could rely
upon obtaining more than £l5O
million from loan-raisings in
1960-61. That is to say, we
have to reckon upon a short-
fall in loan-raisings of about
£4O million by comparison with
1959-60.”
Overseas the borrowing posi-
tion is more difficult than it
was, and we are likely to have
more redemption and conver-
sion problems in London.
Hire - purchase companies
have tended to set the pace for
other types of borrowers, and
if they find it more expensive
to raise money, other businesses
are likely to find corresponding
difficulty.
H.-p. and Thrift
[From Canberra}
T'Vespite all the Government
pleas for restraint in spend-
ing by the community, Aus-
tralia’s hire-purchase bill shows
a steady monthly increase of
between £3 million and £5
million.
At May 31, last, the latest
date for which figures are avail-
able, Australians owed hire-
purchase finance companies the
total of £416,117,000 —an in-
crease of £65 million in 12
months.
In the five-year period from
June. 1955, the indebtedness
has increased more than 100
p.c. —from £182,000,000 to the
present figure.
In the 11 months to the end
of May, finance companies
made available a total of
£274,735,000 to cover sales of
goods worth £406,000,000. By
far the greater proportion of
this went to the finance of
JEWELLERS
“I wish he'd go away!”
motor-vehicles, for which
£193,293,000 was provided.
Despite this ever-increasing
indebtedness on the part of
Australians, they continue to
save for a rainy day and make
sure they are well insured.
In the same 11 months to
the end of May savings-bank
deposits increased by £9B mil-
lion, to an average of more
than £l4B per head of popula-
tion, and in the same tin,
assurance premium! me llfe
£lOO million Ims
Australian Hirp
Conference chairmo' PUrc N
Bissett, when” cornmenf o, D
the hire-purchase fi gu ng 00
the h,p. not only 8 e’S
people to buy the gOo T ed
wanted when they wanted
but by knowing w S
commitments were, also
abled them to plan other
savings.
The London Sharemarkei
[i ram London]
HPhe buoyancy of the stod-
market continues to amaze,
Why did the “Financial Times"
Industrial ordinary index jump
14 points (nearly p.c.) in
one weekv at the height of the
holiday period? There was, in
particular, a bad report from
the Hoover Company, suggest-
ing that the severe profit set-
back (amounting in May and
June to a 33 p.c. decline)
directly followed the credit-
restrictions.
All the familiar, threatening
influences were still present
the balance-of-payments and
the trade-gap, recession on the
other side of the Atlantic,
restrictive measures at ho®
and thunderous clouds over the
international scene.
There was no single pointer
except, perhaps, a growing ®
terest in U.K. equities on w
part of Continental in veS '
It is true that, °ut sl^ e ,
sumer-durables, British >
trialists are full of °ph J
although this must he ov
long term, since the rate
pansion is slowing dow •
The heavy demanc 1
and hire-purchase shar
suggest that investors,^


u „ MULLENS & CO.
’ US( !t!HART, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
r! "'siin!, e P ll() ne
J lines) RT.nr’,27
Cables & Telegrams
‘EMDECELEX,” Sydney
Another “Wales” Service
Sending Money Anywhere
%
u
:
mm
IXO
** •**
m
)
8U
“Teeing-up” the sending of money anywhere in
Australia or overseas is simple, safe, and inexpensive
when you do it through the “Wales”. You can get
a bank draft to send yourself, or they will send the
money for you by surface mail, air mail, telegram,
or cable. This service is available at any “Wales”
branch, whether you have an account or not.
Over 1,000 branches and agencies throughout Australia,
New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea,
and three branches in London.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
WITH LIMITED LIABILITY
YOU CAN BANK ON
THE“WALES”
A6023C
t : n o the credit-restric-
only. Yet
jje no ground s for this
ip tore were two main
"neither of which is
5 command much atten-
ds treatise or investment
*!! One was the maxim
1 comes dow n must go
I*, index had fallen 14
L its peak last Janu-
' jod the Other was simply
L that enormous sums of
L both institutional and
life’ were lying idle await-
(t investment.
[lere is, one understands, a
of stock. As the
fiction of credit favors, the
issue and as many new
£S have been held up, some
fitment may be expected
} a the holidays are over.
Herd Cotton
m consolidated figures for
f Bradford Cotton Mills
mala net profit of £557,719
|[ tie year to June 30, an
icieise of nearly £20,000 on
it preceding year’s result,
k provision was £446,262,
■pared with £329,390, and
fetes very conservative
noting. The div. is un-
sized at 12j p.c.
hits have been excellent,
iview of competition in the
tie trade. The co. is ex-
iting into fresh fields,
ndhas established a complete
Nat Rutherford (N.S.W.)
the manufacture of sheet-
This is a notably
n# departure for the co.,
hitherto has been
®Wd mainly in the making
# f canvas, duck, denims,
dungarees, etc. The plant will
l! 'a Ml production by the
eD<i of September.
new spinning-mill is to
kerected for the production
* cotton yarn of a fineness
f | et being made in
lslralla ' It will be in part
fttton by the end of next
Hr,
J° feance this and other
. 'Pated expansion Brad-
1, ‘ s of fering shares and
t 0 ra ise £2,315,918.
i „ r( e f sh a re - issue w ‘ll be on
‘Nor-four basis at a nre-
is. 3d a for
! • t will raise £1,065,918.
J close on September 23.
The notes will be to the
value of £1,250,000, in 10-
year p.c. notes, of which
£500,000 will be reserved for
prior application by pref. and
ord. shareholders. The notes
will be offered in November.
Both issues are underwritten
by J. B. Were and Son.
Both issues should be
attractive, with the ss. ords.
now selling at 135., and
with Bradford’s other notes
at a premium. In this latter
connection, those people desir-
ing to buy a marketable
shorter-term note (repayable
in 1966) could hardly do
better than pick-up Bradford’s
existing 8 p.c. £lOO notes which
last week were offering in Mel-
bourne at £lO2.
John Mcllwraith Industries
A fine run of results has been
shown by John Mcllwraith
Industries, Ltd., since conver-
sion into a public co. in 1950.
It has met economic conditions,
good and bad, over the decade
with even temper and unabated
confidence. The business was
built up on the handling and
manufacture of plumbers’ and
builders’ supplies, brassware,
lead and lead piping, the manu-
facture of baths and sinks;
more recently it has branched
out in other directions. It has
been act've in takeovers during
the past year, with acquisitions
in Brisbane, Adelaide and
Hobart. These, plus a one-for-
four bonus-issue, have sent paid
capital up to £2,130,925, com-
pared with £1,517,240 two years
ago.
For the term to June 30 last
the John Mcllwraith group
showed a greatly increased
profit of £661,649 (up £176,392),
after providing £452,800 (up
£170,538) for taxation. This
followed on a year of record
sales, and was equal to 34.5 p.c.
on average capital, compared
with 32 p.c. in the preceding
year. Expansion that can
quickly show an increased ratio
of earnings to ord. capital such
as this appears to be well
judged.
The 15 p.c. dividend is main-
tained, and will call for less
than half the disclosed profit
for the year.
The 10s. shares in John Mc-
llwraith have been favored here
for several years. Last week
the 10s. units sold at 485., to
return an immediate 3.1 p.c. on
a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Antill Ranger (Holdings),
Ltd. v
pjOLLOWiNG the incorporation
of Antill Ranger (Hold-
ings), Ltd., on February 26,
1959, the co. acquired the whole
of the issued capital of Antill
Ranger and Co. Pty. which is
the main operating subsidiary
of the group.
The latter co. has been operat-
ing for 13 years. Basically its
function has been that of a
selective cargo-carrier for long
distances overland, usually
inter-State. Recently a further
subsidiary, Truck Sales and
Service Pty., was formed to
operate as a dealer in Rootes
vehicles in N.S.W.
The group has branches in
all States except Tasmania.
Earnings in cartage for the


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase
company in Australia,
AHc
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years
and 15 years a /©
4 years 6j% 3 years 6% 2 years
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at p.a.
Application for Debenture Stock can be
accepted only on the printed form included
in the prospectus. Copies of the full pros-
pectus with application form obtainable from
any A.G.C. Branch, your Stockbroker and
all Branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide
Perth • Hobart
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
Nl
PRING DEAN & CO. n
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. E. Hunt, J. A. Hudso .
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS „ Ilne s)
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BWiuw-
Telegrams Address: Pring Stock Exchange,
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
Sydn eV
1960 financial year were
£1,120,000.
A placement of 100,000 10s.
ords. is now being made at
10s. 6d. a share. The issue is
being made primarily for the
purpose of providing funds for
the expansion of the company’s
operations in all States and also
to give a wider spread of capital
to enable the co. to qualify for
Stock Exchange listing.
The full amount of 10s. 6d.
per share is payable on applies-
tion, and the shares, which will
rank equally with existing
issued shares of the co., will
participate in the final dividend
for the year ended June 30,
1960. The chairman has stated
that he anticipates a final divi-
dend of 4 per cent, will be paid
during October next, making
10 p.c. for the year, and that
the co. should be able to main-
tain this rate of dividend pro-
vided present economic and
trading conditions continue.
Investigating accountants re-
port a net tangible asset back-
ing of 10s. lid. for each 10s.
share.
The issue has been under-
written by Ralph W. King and
Yuill, the Sydney sharebrokers.
Woolworths and M., T.
Tn order to be fair to share-
holders in Matthews,
Thompson, Woolworths last
week withdrew from this par-
ticular takeover contest, which
has now been won by G. J.
Coles.
At the time of the G. J. Coles
last offer (Mr. Theo Kelly, of
Woolworths, points out) it was
evident from the relative
market-value of the respective
companies’ shares that Coles
offer was much greater and this
position would have resolved
the matter. However, the sub-
sequent reaction of the share-
market substantially reduced
the. margin between the two
offers and, in consequence,
many shareholders indicated
their acceptance of Woolworths
offer and many others indicated
their desire to do so.
The position now is that the
market-value of G. J. Coles’
offer remains the higher offer,
and, consequently, it is reason-
able to assume that G. J. Coles
would obtain the necessary 51
p.c. acceptance of their offer.
Such acceptance was an-
nounced last Friday.
In the circumstances Wool-
worths have decided that in
fairness to the shareholders of
Matthews, Thompson it will
return to them immediately
their applications so that they
will have the opportunity of
either accepting the offer of G.
J. Coles or selling their shares
prior to August 31.
Mr. Kelly added that he has
already made it clear that
Woolworths would not further
increase its bid to match Coles’
offer, as such action would
reduce its own earning-rate and
lower the asset-backing of its
shares.
Mr. Kelly said that the
acquisition of the Matthews,
Thompson chain was in no way
essential to the development of
the Food Division of Wool-
worths in N.S.W. This develop-
ment would continue through
its present outlets and be in-
creased substantially by the
establishment of a large number
of supermarkets with parking,
which were at present in course
of erection or about to be
developed. More details in this
regard would be given in the
co.’s half-yearly report to the
end of July.
In a statement on August 4
Mr. Kelly explained his co.’s
position as the largest food-
retailer in Australia.
Woolworths’ policy had not
changed over the years.
Furthermore, as any subsidiary
organisation is incorporated, it
from that date comes within
such policy.
Woolworths desired to work
in the closest co-oners*-
its manufacturers and
Woolworths is l n ppllers-
- fixing 0 f retail to
which were higher than beft
necessary, said Mr Kdi
However, Woolworths „bS
selling-prices suggested £ ?
supplier if satisfied thaK
price was fair and reason**
There is no thought of Wu
worths entering into man*
‘ u . rl "f.', Mr ' K ' llv added, no*
establishing a wide range ofk
own food-brands. How*
this would not prevent the com’
pany from seeking to arrant
the production of any
chandise where it considered
such goods should be marketed
at more beneficial prices or
where it wished to provide
better - quality goods at the
existing price-level.
It was the co.’s unqualified
policy to support Australian
manufacturers, Mr. Kelly said,
However, it was not for Wool-
worths to determine the wisdom
or otherwise of tariff protec-
tion from overseas goods.
Where goods could be imported
at lower prices, then as a
general rule Woolworths con-
sidered it had an obligation to
give the public such advan-
tages.
Davies Coop Losses
TTeavy losses and write-down
by Davies Coop for the
year to June 30 was no shod
to the sharemarket. It had
already readjusted the price
of the ord. shares to around
par, against a highest price of
11s. in 1959 for the ss. shares,
No dividend is being paid
for the year —in the previous
term the rate dropped from
15 p.c. to 12i p.c.
The co. is currently opera:-
ing at a profit, in spite of
difficulties. Much will depend
this year on whether the
adjustments to book-value 5
have been sufficient to remov
trading handicaps from future
activities. The co. has a lar ?
new factory at Rydalme _
(N.S.W.), and its capita l ]
grown to £3,509,301, mcj
convertible notes. Brad
Cotton Mills, its flourish
competitor which has J
produced record P rollt J
has a slightly bigger <
and is now increasing
further.


M RESORTS—
COAST, Q'LAND
modem Flats, 2 Bed-
Inclusive Tariff. TV
Jf°* extras. Linen
■ utle ry provided. Close
an d shopping facilities.
Ir t , • .
r
l %ed p ar rc "“ b
ar accommodation
FLATS,
Phone Snrf VenUe ’ BroadS,ea ch
Offers Paradise 92508
A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
kiety of Artists
UK of Kenneth Mac Queen’s
.!j watercolors the blue
Loos at the waterhole ;
5 subtler in the original
L reproduction— is printed
(the cover of the catalogue
jliis year’s exhibition by
[k, S. Wales Society of
ills at Farmer’s Blaxland
Iries (Sydney); a nice
jUrial gesture.
jb show as a whole is not
Kibble, three painters at
grate are exhibiting at the
®fof their form: most not-
| Arthur Murch in “The
It Rabbit,” a large picture
i Murch’s distinctive
pee and tenderness and
tech cunning in the color
4e rabbit’s red eye repeated
ilk girl’s red lips, the pale-
pof the lettuce picked-up
i in the background.
As in the recent Watercolor
Institute exhibition, Ronald
hart (in oils here) again
ns to have found a happy
like between his precision
draftsmanship— he is one of
4ifew artists to suffer from
to much technical ability—
'd his imagination and love
frthe bush. Unlike the land-
with which he won the
lie Prize, “Sandstone
S” is fluent and rocky
kut being in the least
"graphic, and both “Rock
and “Fragments” are
■wing pieces of design based
"observation.
Ms Meere’s “Dry Spell
®Lismore,” a broad land-
* Wl thout the fussiness of
his leaf-by-leaf pre-Raphaelite
trees, is vivid and clear enough
in its deep shadows and green
hills against the skyline to pass
for a late Gruner; and has,
besides, Meere’s own peculiar,
surreal, rather chilly lighting.
Among the abstract-painters
who form about half the show,
Shay Docking’s bold patterns
and colors in “Coastal Land-
scape” stand out from the
general decline; and Thomas
Gleghorn’s souvenir of the out-
back, “Arnhem No. 2,” with
sand and pebbles stuck into a
base that sometimes looks like
porcelain and sometimes like
cement, is a curious, though
rather dull, departure from
painting into the sculpture of
the bas-relief.
Other works of interest are
shown by Billie Wallace, Freda
Robertshaw, Nora Heysen,
Douglas Dundas, Daryl Lind-
say, Edward Hall, Ann Epstein,
Olive Long, Carl Plate and (a
most sensitive portrait) William
Salmon.
❖ *** *>
Prizes
The James McCaughey Prize
doubles in value this year—
from £2OO (even at that figure
it was Victoria’s most valuable
art-prize) to £4OO. Entries close
in November. Melbourne
painter and teacher George
Bell has been appointed judge
by the administrators of the
prize, the National Gallery
Society.
The Melbourne Yor i c k
Club’s art-prize this year is
worth 50-guineas. It is open to
both oils and watercolors, and
the winning entry will remain
the property of the club.
Entries close on September
17. Applications should be
addressed to the honorary sec-
retary, G. A. Todner, c'/o Mc-
Killop House, 23 McKillop
Street, Melbourne.
❖ ❖ ♦>
Sailing-ships
Currently on view at the
Sydney Mission to Seamen is
a nautical-art exhibition —paint-
ings of old sailing-ships by
Harry Raynor, presented with
emphasis on historical value.
A booklet is available giving
brief notes about the ships and
their rigging.
Stage and Music
Societa Corelli
This 13-piece ensemble from
Italy, comprising 12 assorted
strings and a pianist, made
most agreeable music at its first
Sydney recital, its incisiveness
of “attack” and its smooth
meshing and balance presup-
posing long and devoted prac-
tice together ; and the absence
of a conductor lending an air
of spontaneity and improvisa-
tion to all their playing.
As their name would suggest,
music of the baroque style
looms large in their pro-
grammes. Corelli, one of the
finest of 17th-century Italian
composers, was represented by
his Concerto Grosso in D
Major. Corelli himself estab-
lished this form, in which the
older style of counterpoint
gives way to part-writing with
chordal progressions, cadences
and modulations put to entirely
new uses. The essential spright-
liness of this work, the fourth
of Op. 6, was well caught by the
orchestra, with warm feeling
in the second-movement adagio.
Vivaldi’s A Major Concerto
for violin, ’cello, strings and
cembalo, with its clear orches-
tral texture and fresh melodies,
followed. The third early-
Italian work was Boccherini’s
Concerto in D Major for ’cello
and strings, in which soloist
Silvano Zuccarini drew from
his low strings a beautiful
broad tone and put his instru-
ment through the livelier paces
with admirable flexibility.
After the interval Zuccarini’s
sister Mirella took the key-
board for the Bach Concerto in
D Minor. Rather more staid
than the two previous con-
certos, this one sometimes
relents in its gravity to give
gay figuration-work to the
soloist, and these passages were
played crisply. Here again in-
tegration between the various
sections of strings was impec-
cable.
Bela Bartok’s “Divertimento
for Strings,” a sinewy work
with asymmetrical rhythmic
patterns and fragmentary
themes shooting-off at tangents
here and there, took the orches-
tra into an entirely different
world. Here was music that
seemed to be poking an
irreverent tongue out at the
flow of pure classicism that had
preceded it. The players lashed
into its pungent humor with
great verve, especially in the
engaging rhythms of the final
country dance.
* m m
Malko and Llewellyn
At the A.B.C.’s subscription-
concert at Sydney Town Hall


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). EV W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PET'I'ERSEN, Manager.
Branchcg in all States Agencies in nil Country Centres
Divorce Notice
TO ALEXANDER JOHN KEITH fo»
erly of Vincent
Western Australia.— *,.--
that your wife LILY SOPHIA KEITH
instituted proceedings against you
Supreme Court of Western Australia
ground of desert!® ®
Divorce on the gruuuu » —vt,
three years or more If you E
defend the action you must file ) y
fence or counterclaim at tne .
Office of the Supreme Court at r
within FORTY (40) clear da} »
the date of this publication Court
the case may proceed ana
will pronounce judgment ana^^
orders against you in y 1960.
DATED the 19th day of Au^st,
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar’
with MAXWELL
lalor - ,
Barrack Perth, Solicitors or
Plaintiff.
It any “Bulletin” aW»«*
takes your fancy «n (e 0
Manager, who will qo° e
a price for the ong<
last Saturday night Nicolai
Malko up-ended tradition by
starting with a symphony and
ending on an overture, with a
pair of moderns to hold the
centre.
The symphony was the C
Major of Muzio Clementi, a
contemporary of Mozart. A
work of sunniness, elegance
and some melodic invention, it
is not at all unlike the sym-
phonies of Mozart’s “Haffner”
and “Linz” period. And it was
quite elegantly played.
M a 1 k o’s concertmaster,
Ernest Llewellyn, was soloist
in Prokofieff’s D Major Violin
Concerto, a piece of quite
modest technical demands
which, oddly, dispenses with
cadenzas. What little bravura-
writing there is is mostly com-
passed in the whimsical scherzo.
The most rewarding section for
both performer and listener is
the end-section. Here Llewel-
lyn produced some fine lyrical
tone before being swept into
the rhythmical contest with the
orchestra and very exhilarat-
ing jousting it was ; this part
of the score is of true sym-
phonic proportions and colored
in Prokofieff’s best style.
Paul Hindemith’s “Mathias
the Painter”—called a sym-
phony, but actually three pieces
from his opera of that name
put together—is in effect a
series of tone-poems, the themes
of which bear no relation to
one another. The “Angelic
Concert” movement is almost
as evocative of a fun-fair as it
is of a performance by celestial
artists ; but the second move-
ment, “The Entombment,” is
a genuine piece of inspired
writing. The muted strings and
woodwinds put the best playing
of the night into its first subject.
Malko extracted playing of
power and precision in the con-
cluding “Temptation of St.
Anthony” section, with quite a
rousing fortissimo chorale from
the brasses to proclaim the final
triumph.
The concluding item was the
“Tannhauser” Overture, but
this was below first-rate Wag-
ner. The Venusberg music is
just about the ultimate in
voluptuousness, but the per-
formance never got to the stage
where the music becomes, as it
should be, a glorification of
carnal love. The succeeding
Bacchanale, however, had the
savor of really wild doings
about it, and the massed brass
thunderously gave out the
second Pilgrim’s Chorus to
retrieve something of what had
been lost before.
♦♦♦ * ❖
Belafonte: A Footnote
The purists could, as The
Bulletin’s Melbourne re-
viewer observed here last
week, make a case against
Harry Belafonte’s unstrict
treatment of the folk-song;
but if there were any of these
“Have you weighed yourself lately, Miss Chalmers ?”
hardy souls among the 12,000
who packed Sydney Stadium
and roared for more and more
at the end of the singer’s 21-
hour performance they had
probably joined all the non-
purists long before lemons
and were hollering along with
them.
The fact is, Nature made
Belafonte an entertainer first
and a folk-singer second. He
is a born showman—and that
in the best sense of the word.
Even before his concert was
well under way you could see
he had every part of the
audience-gripping game sewn-
up tight at every seam. He
didn’t have the audience in
the hollow of his hand so much
as in his pocket.
The multicolored lights
helped, but they were only
the lance-jacks in a battalion
of dramatic effects. An up-
flung hand, a long piercing
gaze, black dejection in a
drooped shoulder —these were
only a few of the aids he used
to hammer home the message
of a song; none knows better
than he, too, the crashing
effect that dead silence can
bring.
There was certainly many
a misted pye at the end of his
opening number —a song sung
by a native father -looking at
the baby whose mother’s death
is imminent. There were deep
nostalgic tints to such songs
as “Jamaican Farewell” and
“Island in the Sun.” From
these he turned to laughter-
making, and here his touch
and timing were as flawless as
his sense of drama.
The final half-hour was
given over to audience-
participation, all of it done
with such an air of spon-
taneity and improvisation as
almost to lure anyone into
overlooking that this, right
down to the last lifted eye-
brow, had all been carefully
rehearsed and polished.
S. W. K.
Phillip Street Move
Thl y tre n wiU S mo P v h c iU ‘P feet
year to a new add
Elizabeth Street, cuL?
known as the Austral™ 9
It will, however, continue tot
Th°eZ. aS the Phi “* 55
In announcing this i ast ,
the company said that the„*
mg lease of its present nremi!
at 171 Phillip LettZZ
at the end of January 190
and by mutual agreement with
the lessors, will not be renewed
The theatre will later be
demolished to give room for
a multi-story office building.”
The Australian Hall is to be
“extensively altered and reno-
vated” for the company’s open-
ing there at the end of Febru-
ary next. The new theatre will
have a seating - capacity of
about 500.
Films
“Wild Strawberries”
Compassion and a rich un-
derstanding of human-nature
inform this beautiful and touch-
ing story of an old man and his
problems, wrought by Sweden’s
gifted writer-director Ingmar
Bergman, who here bridges the
worlds of dreams and reality
with a touch of genius.
The story is that of a pro-
fessor of medicine who at 78
is about to be honored by h:s
old university after having
completed 50 years of service.
The night before, he has a
vivid dream of facing death
alone, he having led a lonely
life since the death of his


FINANCE
LIMITED
Stewardson Stubbs and
Collett Finance Limited
£50,000 REGISTERED FIRST
MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
P£R -ANNUM, FOR 3 YEARS
PER ANNUM
FOR 2 YEARS
PER ANNUM
FOR 1 YEAR
PROSPECTUS: Applications must be made
on the form enclosed in the Prospectus,
which can be obtained from the office of
the Company—
STEWARDSON STUBBS & COLIETT FINANCE LIMITED
Suite 31, 83 Put Street, Sydney. BV 1395
Te: S.S.C. Finance Ltd., Suite 31,
83 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please send prospectus to: —
NAME -
ADDRESS
BuJI gl/g
80C.4.7*
. earlier. With his
Jn-law with whom he
Guarded terms and whose
ISt from his son is
$ m nt he sets out in his car
SrS. City of Lund
o lift to three bright
2 people, holiday-bound.
J influence these and some
Jeflts on the journey m-
Ljnga visit to his boyhood
' have on him is developed
Jously with flashbacks in
ohe becomes a spectator
dhis own youth. So he comes
l realise that he has been
oped by the bitterness of
land love ; he mellows, and
ijlhe end he becomes recon-
jy with the son who has
0 been able to understand
I; his daughter-in-law comes
jlasi to regard him with affec-
i; and he is able to face
ill is left of life with a
Itiltr heart.
fetor Sostrom uses a tech-
ii of superb simplicity and
|§y in his portrait of the
professor; and he gets strong
sapport from the rest of the
: cast
A Sydney Gala.
♦ ❖ *
Most World”
It has long been established
lit no scientific expedition
tiploring the untracked wastes
t! a Hollywood-studio jungle
is complete without a beauti-
fully-permed lass. The one in
lisopus is clad in lolly-pink,
tight slacks; and, so
®yed, she presents a much
Wer hazard to the otherwise
%le cast than even the
% dinosaurs, which, bob-
-SUP unexpectedly here and
quite forget that they
ould have been herbivorous
I ? a ' Ke a m eal off one of the
•fet gents. These reptiles
? their mouths wide at the
i,itrTffi a at ’ as yawning.
II d ‘fficult not to copy them.
*t Sydney Regent.
* * *
Bongo”
skit on the 20th-
its I phenomen °n of talent-
iocketed a ?o f ln§erS bdnB Sky '
I*l ° ame and fortune
lave ip , booster - char ges of
« R !f pterin and irresistible
Publicity
Whis d H a r . v ey, who
lie rut u S dra matic talents as
< h S t s , u P- and - c °mer in
hnd dpfH^ e tur ns his
comedy J to high - speed
manager „„, a Se lf-appointed
Publicity-hound
for a sad-faced 16-year-old
who groans sentimental songs
in a teenage-club. Seeing his
possibilities as a money-spinner,
Harvey puts him onto songs
with a religious touch, bull-
dozes him through all opposi-
tion to a vantage-point in
front of TV-cameras, then with
magnificent confidence waits
for the offers to roll in.
They do, aided by a bottle-
blonde star with a genius for
self-publicity, and a record-co.
proprietor whose soul goes
marching on in the hit-parades.
It is all good clean fun ; the
dialogue is particularly snappy,
the satire razor - sharp. The
music, as it should be, is quite
awful.
At Sydney Victory.
“The Bellboy”
To all intents and purposes
plot is dispensed with in this
whdfcky farce set in a posh
Miami pub, and this gives an
improvisatory air to proceed-
ings in which Jerry Lewis is
given wide scope for his genius
for messing-up a host of things
and jobs.
Who but Jerry, ordered to
take everything out of the
“back” of a Volkswagen, would
j- ~ -
dismantle the engine installed
there? The vacuous look and
the range of other expressions
his caoutchouc clock is able to
register, plus assistance from
his fellow - bellhop Milton
Berle and a suave running-
commentary from Walter Win-
chell, provoke a fair number of
grins. Guffaws, however, will
come only from inveterate
Lewis-addicts,
Sydney Prince Edward,
* * ***
“Carry on, Constable”
This latest in the “Carry On”
series of comedies from Britain
presents a quartet of morons
who by some strange chance
have been trainee - policemen
wh° become fully-fledged
j°P s w h en a flu-epidemic re-
? uces J h . e constabulary ranks
In a plot full of unrelated
situatio^s e stock iecc o£
slapstick> slipp P ng on
banana-peel to misfiring with a
bucket of water and drenching
the wrong victim, is pressed
into service. The same cast
that inhabited this opus’s for-
bears work with dogged deter-
mination for laughs,
At Sydney Lyceum.
THREE LOVE POEMS
I. The Victory
Your eyes like a green wave
Mirror misting a gone
White temper. You are won
And yield to the world of love.
How plaintive in your face
By the warm motion of your
breath
Is the held and quickening
peace
That is your will’s death !
II. The Tree
This great tree, green and
soundless,
Exploded and stilled around us,
More miracle than menace,
Is the love that rose within us.
It is our dark reflector,
And we, like it, are ready
For further growing greater
When this gesture leaves our
body.
We, with the tree, are breath-
less ;
We, with its strength, are death-
less.
III. Something Always
Something always of beauty,
Worn or burned in the mind,
Holds images in silence
Away from earth and wind,
A way from the grey invasion
Of time and rolling storm,
So none shall touch the stillness
Sealed deep in beauty’s form;
And because I knew and loved
you,
Something always is
Stronger than the form of
beauty —
That love’s images.
q.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


THE FIRST TIME
By
A. E. STURGES
I felt sorry for old Ernie ;
he was so utterly useless,
without a trade, or any
of the handiness and
commonsense that make a
good tradesman’s mate. The
station fitters, including me,
preferred to work alone rather
than with his help: his
presence was merely an extra
hazard.
Being useless, Ernie lacked
the casual confidence of the
skilled man, that air of belong-
ing, of having an assured
place. He looked, instead,
like a man at a loose end, as
if he were filling -in time
between two tasks; and this
even when engaged in his full-
time job of cleaning.
That was Ernie’s job: keep-
ing the station clean ; wiping
from switchboards, operating-
panels, desk-tops, doorknobs
and handrails the coating of
dust deposited continually by
the sweeping of the floors, the
grinding of the commutators,
the blowing-out of the rotary-
converters. It was an endless,
hopeless, idiotic sort of job ;
and the hopelessness and
idiocy of it were reflected in
Ernie himself.
He was always odd-man
out; a natural butt, invariably
the victim of our practical
jokes. He was different; and
persecuted because of it, as
nature decrees. As I said, I
was sorry for him; but my
pity was limited by my irrita-
tion at the way he took it all.
He was meek, bore no grudge,
retreated weakly and returned
for more, like a kicked cur.
One good burst of violent
retaliation, a bucket of cold
water, a sopping lump of oily
waste, would have won him
immunity, perhaps even a
measure of respect; it is only
when hunting the completely
cowed that men press on with-
out regard for consequences.
I watched old Ernie now.
He rubbed the lump of cotton-
waste that seemed part of him
along a few yards of hand-
rail, paused, looked furtively
around, then stood motion-
less, staring out over the
machine floor. A stranger, at
a distance,, could have mis-
taken him for an engineer
considering improvements to
the station layout, or an
overalled philosopher ponder-
ing men and machines. Close
up, he would have made no
such mistake. The sagging
shoulders, the ape-like under-
lip, the vacant eyes, would
have dispelled quickly any
such illusions. Thoughts of
some kind must have been
passing through his brain, but
I doubt whether Ernie could
have given them expression.
T saw him jerk up suddenly
and shuffle off along the
edge of the control floor, fol-
lowing the handrail with his
lump of waste until he disap-
peared behind a* bank of plant
transformers.
Moore, the charge-engineer,
appeared from behind No. 6
converter, crossed the machine
floor with rapid strides, ran
up the steps, and beckoned me
importantly as he walked to
the log-desk. He made an
entry, then bellowed above the
roar of the machines (the job
suited Moore ; he would have
hated to speak quietly): “The
Super, and I just had a look
at number-seven shunt. It’ll
have to come out.”
“What’s up with it?”
“Running at twenty-two
thousand has softened the
solder. Looks as though the
strips may have warped a bit,
too.”
“Won’t you get the same
trouble with the rest, then?
They’re all rated at twenty-
thousand.”
“At normal temperature,
yes. Number-seven went up
to a hundred-and-twenty.
We’re putting a fan in each
room to keep ’em under a
hundred.”
“How are you going to get
number-seven out?”
Moore looked a little lessi
certain of himself. He was
one of those cocky types, full
of themselves as long as the
going’s good.
“I thought of lifting it over
the top.”
“They’re heavy. We’d need
special gear.”
“About half-a-ton.”
“Why not truck it out?”
He chewed his lip. Some
of these charge - engineers
7™’. engineer-types, jus,
glonfied operators. Not too
hot when it came to thinking
round a problem.
“We'd have to get a special
truck,” he said doubtfully,
“And it’d take a bit of
juggling to get it past the
thermostat-box and then round
at right-angles to the door.”
“What about that truck
down at the shop? The one
they brought up for the
induction-regulator rotor. It’s
got a steering-handl6.”
He was trying to picture it
in the shunt-room. I fed him
a bit more: I didn’t fancy
swinging a half-ton shunt up
over the top above the live
bars and alongside the d.-c.
panel.
“We could run it under and
pack up to the shunt before
we disconnect. Then put a
good man on the handle, and
" w UP i
He nodded slowly as it sank
in. I knew damn’ well he’d
put it to the Super, as his own
idea, but I was used to that.
“All right. Get what gear
you need, and I’ll arrange the
truck and men. But don’t
start anything till I give you
the all-clear.”
The Super, gave his 0.k,,
and Moore got the truck up
from the shop.
\X/’hen the three men turned-
up I was surprised to see
that old Ernie was one of to,
I buttonholed Moore.
“What have you got oil
Ernie here for?”
“To help on the truck, oi
course.”
I gave him a witheri?
look. “Can’t you get son-
one else? He’ll fall unis
the wheels or something.”
Moore shrugged. “Then's
no one else free. He’ll be of.
I turned my back on ft
We ran the truck unis
chocked it, and - packed-up ®
the underside of the shit
with a couple of lengths o>
hardwood. Then I disco;
nected the joints. I expl®
to the men what we were
going to do. Dick would W
the steering-handle, Tom 21
Ernie would push, and Id?
the directions. , ,1
While I was talking,
Ernie stood staring a ,
shunt, looking like a
mute. However, he mu*! 3
taken-in what I sa'd’ ~u
soon as Dick took hoi ,
handle he crouched at
of the truck ready to PU
We got the truck i
round, and started oft. j
just rolling J icel j (ffaS jt
noticed that the sh
sitting square; . 0
corner of it P r °l ec , 0 f tin
inches over the si ae , f jt
truck, and it sta t.|#
would foul the thermostat
“Hold it!”
(Continued onp“S e^


Tei°
“graphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
*l5 I>; tt s
street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 808*
A. L. NEVJTT & CO.
A. D. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building:,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1
THe WILDCAL
COLUMN
Srt PMp &
« second one-for-five bonus-issue in
I™ consecutive years, made in
I October, 1959, was the highlight of
k JS Philp’s operations last term. The
! (dealing with the parent
j„) may have a certain mystical
kination for the initiated, but a more
gate shareholder or observer might
prefer ordinary consolidated figures.
Here is little doubt that the huge
concern is continuing s to do well. The
taisissue is an indication that the
y feels more generously inclined
towards the scripholders and, perhaps,
more aware of potential takeover
dangers. How much more of the ample
inner kitty may be distributed without
prejudice to the co.’s solid financial
sructure is hard to say.
Incorporated in N.S.W. in 1883, Burns,
lip and Co'., Ltd., conducts extensive
merchandising activities throughout Aus-
tria and New Zealand. The co. operates
Ipng-services between Australia, New
Guinea, New Hebrides, Solomon Islands
aid Singapore, as well as a network of
•■island lines in the Pacific.
Here are over 40 copra-plantations in
hGuinea and the islands. Major sub-
sidiaries are Burns, Philp (South Sea)
Co., Ltd., and its offshoot, Burns, Philp
(New Hebrides), Ltd., Burns, Philp (New
w®a), Ltd., and Burns, Philp Co. of
wn Francisco, a U.S. import-export
subsidiary.
Vestments include shares in Queens-
t,,lnsurance Co., Ltd., Bankers and
Insurance, Ltd., Jantzen
lid i, Lt u'’ and Coles and Co.,
■ all shown at modest book-values.
J**. facilities and organisation
of m e ,- a father increase in sales
'ear l C $ andlSe '” Shipping had a leaner
j and product about £250,000 less
M V5 e , previous ter m, mainly the
lights wt; 8 t er C °, sts and smaller total
profitable h made many v °y a § es un-
kigheTcon” reSults benefited from
£s WtofQi QA ICeS Cvhich rose from
investments o 8 ton )-. evenues from
factory” and Plantations “were satis-
fy a co^af 6 cons °lidated accounts
' * Burns, Philp’s magnitude
and scope makes an accurate estimate
of earnings difficult.
Gross profit and income from all
sources for the year ended March 31,
1960, was disclosed at £2,952,834 (down
£114,373). Salaries, wages, general work-
ing expenses, bad debts and undisclosed
tax-provision were £202,946 higher at
£1,606,854. Another £177,179 was set
aside for depreciation (down £120,309)
and £l5OO paid-out in directors’ fees.
Transfers (£270,000 low 7 er this year) to
replacement reserve (£lOO,OOO “tonnage
replacement provision” and £130,000
“property replacement provision”) were
deducted before arriving at £937,301 net
profit for the year (up £72,990):
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. , -Dividends —— N serves. serves.
1957. 10 p.c. = 375,000 \ Iftl
To staff fund, £27,082 .. j 161 ’ 023 354,631
To replacement res., £500,000 . . 7,854,631
Surplus insurance fund, £10,104 .. 7,864,735
Profit sale assets, etc., £435,705 .. 8,300,440
1958. 10 p.c. = 400,000 ( 180 9 _ ,
To staff fund, £28,045 .. j 180 ’ 122 »,480,562
Revaluation investments, £1,212,979 9,693,541
Reserves capitalised (1 for 4),
£1,000,000 8,693,541
Surplus, insurance fund, £23,886.. 8,717,427
Less disbursement of staff-fund, and
sundry adjustments, net, £43,140 8,674,287
To replacement reserve, £500,000.. 9,174,287
1959. .864,311 10 p.c. = 500,000 ( onfi 0
To staff fund, £30,405 .. { 333 ’ 906 9 ’ 008 > 193
To replacement reserve, £230,000 . . 9,738,193
Surplus, insurance fund, £21,028.. 9,759,221
Increase miscellaneous res., £725,557 10,484,778
Assets revaluation, £919,999 ..11,404,777
Reserves capitalised, £1,000,000 . . 10^404,777
1960. .937,301 10 p.c. = 550,000 ( „- R r 79 in
To staff fund, £30,729 .. { 306,572 10,761,349
In addition £416,671 came in as “special
dividends received during the year, paid
out of the accumulated profits carried
forward in the balance-sheets of the
Papua-New Guinea subsidiary cos.”
If transfers to replacement reserve and
the “special divs.” are added to net
profit disclosed net earnings rise to
£1,583,972 (28.8 p.c. on average capital),
compared with £1,364,311 (27.3 p.c.) in
the preceding year.
Net profit as stated represents an
earning-rate of a shade over 17 p.c. on
the bonus-increased average capital (18.7
p.c. on capital at the previous balance-
date). This compares with 17.2 p.c. in
the preceding term and 15.2 p.c., 15.1
p.c. and 15.4 p.c. back to 1956.
Div.-rate was steady at 10 p.c., absorb-
ing £550,000. Staff fund received £30,729
and reserves benefited by £356,572.
There were major movements in
reserves. Miscellaneous reserve gained
£725,557 (£416,671 from transfer of
“special divs.” and £308,886 unexplained).
Insurance-fund increased by £21,028. The
co.’s investments on the sharemarket
were revalued by £919,999, and
£1,000,000 was capitalised as the one-for-
five bonus-issue, leaving assets-revalua-
tion reserve at £132,978.
There is some speculation whether the
unexplained portion of the increase in
miscellaneous reserve was attributable to
the book-profit on sale of the Imperial
Arcade and adjoining Pitt Street proper-
ties in Sydney early last February.
Total reserves were disclosed at
£10,761,349, supporting a paid capital of
£6,000,000 in 20s. ords.:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Capital .. £4,000,000 £5,000,000 £ 6,000,000
Reserves .. 8,480,562 9,508,193 10,761,349
Creditors, etc. 3,289,646 3,657,207 4,193,797
Final dividends 200,000 250,000 300,000
£15,970,208 £18,415,400 £21,255,146
Properties and
shipping .. 2,166,742 2,110,213 1,472,372
Shares other cos.* 6,375,145 8,445,331 11,181,347
Shares subsids. 3,251,088 8,372,621 3,429,020
Stocks, etc. .. 1,891,096 2,095,324 2,175,968
Debtors . . 1,999,336 2,016,939 2,444,200
Cash .. .. 286,801 374,972 552,239
£15,970,208 £18,415,400 £21,255,146
* Includes an unstated amount of Govt, bonds.
Properties and shipping were shown at
£1,472,372 (down £637,841). Book-value
of scrip held in other cos. was £2,736,016
higher at £11,181,347 (including the
£919,999 write-up). The co.’s valuation
of its holdings on the sharemarket re-
mains very conservative, despite the
recent revaluation.
There seems to be scope for further
distribution of bonus-scrip if the board
decides to continue a less conservative
line towards the shareholders.
Net tangible-asset backing works out
at a visible 555. lOd. for each 20s. ord.
on parent figures alone.
Three small ships are being built for
inter-island trade at an estimated total
cost of £150,000. Plans for a new main-
line vessel have been shelved, following
poor returns from shipping.
Last term the co. acquired a retail
business near Wellington (N.Z.) and
opened a depot at Mt. Isa (Q.).
Despite some setbacks from the
shipping-trade, the taxation back-slug and
higher costs Burns, Philp is obviously in
good shape.
“Continued favorable results” are fore-
cast from island subsidiaries, especially
if copra prices remain at the current level.
•More direct benefits to shareholders
depend on the board’s policy as much
as on the general economic situation.
At the last sale in Sydney the 20s. ords.
changed hands at 925. 6d. each for an
immediate return of 2.2 p.c., based on the
10 p.c. div.-distribution.
William Adams & Co., Ltd.
Spurred on, last term, by expanding
markets and even more extensive
competition, William Adams, Ltd.,
excelled itself. The volume of sales
during the twelve months to June 30
finished up well in excess of anything
previously recorded, pre - tax earnings
leapt £143,731, or 37.2 p.c., to £529,702,
and net profit, higher than ever before,
was £302,189 (up £72,786, or 31.7 p.c.),
after setting aside a more than liberal
£227,513 (up £70,945) for tax and
£53,779 (down £14,048) for depreciation.
Tax is greater than that required by


statute, even granted the increased retro-
spective levy in the new Budget.
William Adams taps an Australia-wide
market, and, in addition, enjoys a broad
diversification of interests, a happy com-
bination in present circumstances, and
one that has enabled the co. to with-
stand the jostling of rival organisations.
Head-office is in Sydney ; branches are
established in the capital cities of all
States and as well in Newcastle and
Wollongong, N.S.W., Launceston, Tas-
mania, and Kalgoorlie and Gerald-
ton, W.A.
The co.’s activities embrace the mer-
chandising throughout Australia of a
wide variety of steels —William Adams
is probably the biggest steel-merchant in
the Commonwealth machine - tools,
hand-tools and engineering-supplies, and
as agents for C. A. Parsons and Co., Ltd.,
the sale and erection of power-generating
and other electrical equipment.
Through William Adams Tractors Pty.,
the co. holds the Victorian and Tas-
manian franchises for the well-known
Caterpillar range of tractors, earth-
moving equipment, etc. —this facet of the
William Adams complex was, in large
measure, responsible for the group’s
success last term. Demand for tractors,
etc., is on the up and increased con-
siderably last year. Total sales of all
types of tractors, etc., including Cater-
pillars, in Victoria during the three
months to March 31, last, numbered
1508, in Tasmania 171 ; in the corre-
sponding quarter of 1959, Victorian sales
aggregated 1064 and Tasmanian sales 160.
Another offshoot, William Adams Steel
Reinforcement Co. Pty. (N.S.W.),
specialises in steel-bending and the pro-
duction of steel reinforcements for use
by building-contractors operations are
not yet extensive. The co., also, has a
controlling-interest in Griffiths Bros.
Ferrodor Paint Co. Pty., a comparatively
small undertaking, and holds the distri-
buting-rights for another U.K. manufac-
turer, Perry Chain Co., Ltd. Other
agencies cover automatic production-
tools from New Britain-Gridley (U.S.A.)
and Andre Bechler, Ltd. (Switzerland),
and general-engineering plant from
Worthington Corp. (U.S.A.).
Latest results, reckoned after tax and
depreciation indicated above, an in-
creased allocation to staff funds, £20,000
(up £10,000), a transfer to stock pro-
vision, £ll,OOO (the total provision now
stands at £296,000) and to doubtful debts
provision, £22,000 (£124,000), represent
a return on capital of 25.2 p.c., other
yields back to 1956 being 19.1 p.c., 17.2
p.c., 22.1 p.c. (on an average paid-up
capital of £960,000) and 31.6 p.c.:
William Adams and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. f— —Dividends ——■, serves. serves.
1957. .211,948 15 p.c. = 144,000 67,948 1,036,101
Tax overprovided, £15,500 .. .. 1,051,601
Share-premiums, £10,019 .. .. 1,061,620
Added insurance reserve, £5631 .. 1.067,251
1958. .202,804 15 p.c. - 175,950 26,854 1,094,105
Added on consolidation, £2798 . . 1,096,903
1 ransferred from prov. contingencies
previously included with creditors,
£65,000 1,161,903
Tax overprovided, £4613 .. .. 1,166,516
Asset revaluation, £200,000 . . 1,366,516
1959. . 229,403 15 p.c. = 177,900 51,503 1,418,019
Profit sale assets, £18,598 .. .. 1,436,617
1960. .302,189 15, p.c. = 180,000 122,189 1,558,806
In 1956, simultaneous par (two-for-five)
and bonus (one-for-five) issues were
made, and 40,000 shares were allotted
to employees. Expansion prompted the
introduction of additional working-
capital in 1959, when shareholders were
invited to subscribe an issue at par of
£1 6 p.c. registered, unsecured con-
vertible notes (one-for-two). The notes,
presently selling at 58s. and yielding
2.1 p.c., offer a relatively cheap means
of access to the William Adams register.
They are convertible into ord. stock-
units of £1 each on April 30, 1965 ;
noteholders are entitled to participate in
any issues by the co. of ord. shares or
convertible notes made prior to that date.
William Adams’s 20s. stock-units were
traded last week on Sydney ’Change at
735. 6d. to return an immediate yield
of 4.1 p.c. from a 15 p.c. div.
Overheads continued to spiral last
term, but increased turnover caused the
ratio of expenses to sales to fall. Gross-
profit rates remained reasonably stable.
The big £6-million expansion pro-
gramme undertaken in Australia by the
Caterpillar Tractor Co. of U.S.A. has
freed the tractor subsidiary, to a large
extent at any rate, of previous problems
associated with supply. Difficulties do,
however, remain. The recent relaxation
of import-controls also favors the org-
anisation. An increased quantity and an
improved continuity of supply of goods
from overseas is facilitated and more
ready satisfaction of sales orders is made
possible. Shortages exist still, though,
in the supply of steel —this may only
be temporary —and machine-tool re-
quirements, but management is “hopeful
that we will have success in keeping up
the flow of products to sell.”
After paying the usual 15 p.c. div. —
divs. have been kept steady at 15 p.c.
now for 10 years—profits remaining,
plus surplus from the sale of Melbourne
properties £18,598, lifted reserves to a
very healthy. £1,558,806, up £140,787 and
exceeding paid capital:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
/ 1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £1,180,000 £1,200,000 £1,200,000-
Reserves . . . . 1,094,105 1,418,019 1,558,806
Sundry provisions 41,000 52,000
Minority interests 8,168 7,756
Overdraft .. . . 668,512 710,807 107,544
Mortgage .. .. 200,000 390,000 369,000
Notes .. .. 287,008 600,000
Creditors*.. .. 776,448 922,264 801,876
Sraff fund .. 80,000 100,000
Tax provision .. 167,207 170,752 241,993
Final divs. .. 105,750 107,100 90,000
£4,192,022 £5,335,118 £5,128,975
Freeholds .. .. 688,642 1,141,664 1,031,101
Plant, etc. .. 237,824 300,267 401,696
Shares .. .. r 50,006 20,177 28,177
Stocks .. .. 2,170,491 2,443,866 2,116,808
Debtors .. . . 1,045,059 1,429,144 1,551,193
£4,192,022 £5,335,118 £5,128,975
* Includes provision for contingencies, staff benefit
and long-service leave provision and sundry pro-
visions until and including 1958.
Last term saw the completed re-siting
of the group’s Victorian branch on the
Geelong Road, the book-value of plant
rising in consequence by £101,429
(£401,696). The book-value of freeholds,
following the sale of the Melbourne
properties, fell £110,563 to s £1,031,101.
Mortgage liability, under security to the
A.M.P., was reduced by £21,000
(£369,000).
As an investment William Adams has
distinct possibilities. Earning-power will
want to build up pending the conversion
of the notes. Sales so far i n th
year are said to be better than ! CUrren >
twelve months ago. Indeed h ey Were
such that management is com,H? aild is
implementation of plans to incre ? fte
in N.S.W., Queensland andS A ? space
and also in Victoria and
cater specifically to the growijl to
lanty of the Caterpillar product v° P !'
]?£ to chairman Barton fi'
These developments could mean
crease in capital, but planning ? *
sufficiently advanced at this time for
to say more.” r ®
The 20s. ords. are each backed by to
of net tangible assets, in at 1958 vail
tions, plus additions at cost.
Lend Lease Corp., Ltd.
T end Lease Core, had a busy and
profitable year. Capital more than
trebled, reserves mounted and the scopt
of operations-widened.
Lend Lease Corporation, Ltd., now a
prosperous N.S.W. real-estate, building
and finance co., was floated in March,
1958. Since then it has established itself
as a vigorous growth-stock. Much of /ft
financial strength and business-connec-
tions stem from close association#
Civil and Civic Contractors Pty, which
had sponsored Lend Lease’s formation
and continues to hold a substantial share-
interest.
Last term two new subsidiaries, Lend
Lease Management Pty. (which manages
the First National Buildings Trust and,
through a sub-subsidiary, the holiday-
centre at Tuggerah Lakes operated by
Tuggerah Lakes Recreation Centre Pty.j
and Lend Lease Development were
launched.
Regional Centres, Ltd. (owners of Top
Ryde shopping-centre), and Hydelec
Holdings, Ltd. (manufacturer of eleva-
tors), were taken over and a substantial
interest acquired in Richardson aid
Wrench, Ltd. (real-estate dealers). After
the close of accounts Lend Lease bough-
out L. E. Bowman and Co. Pty. an
made a successful offer for the whole oi
the ord. capital of J. Connolly Ltd.
The co.’s real-estate development pro-
gramme is carried out by Lend Leas 6
Development Pty. (with 22 subsidiaries!,
the newly-acquired Regional Lenr l
Ltd., and City Development Pty. Anctw
House Development, Ltd.,„ is a J
venture with “a major bank.” Lo n jk
property investments are handled y
subsidiary Cecec (No. 2) Pty-
Last term the group expanded P .
Land was acquired at St. Ives,
wether and Campbelltown (
N.S.W.). Purchases in the inner h) }
districts included A.M.P.
the area bounded by G eof 8 £ ’ , | a lf
Pitt and Bond Streets and two-a .
acres of the Babworth Estate a
Point. . . ts w ere
Two major home-units P r °l
completed at Elizabeth Bay a coJI .
billi (Sydney), and another
menced. Work began on 1 <; tr eet
House in Sydney and the A
Medical Centre (Melbourn b
Point Tower (described as


1
•vvvii
Lafec
Investments
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £l r ooo.ooo
INVEST NOW
Interest rates:
8% per annum 3 years or more
7% per annum 2 year*
S°/o per annum ] year
5% per annum £ months
.vv
KV.V
V.
a
.V
’.V
.V.
v.v
MV
V.V
vv
vv
mm
w
.V.
vvvv
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS OR MORE
'TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £11.000.000. ASSET BACKING. £1,086
■FOR EACH £lOO OF REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Application for Debentures may only be made on the application
Forms attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
PARKER & STEWART
Underwriting Brokers,
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
56 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: BW 1057.
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or direct from the Company
or its subsidiaries.
LATEC FINANCE PTY. LTD.
Tl 3-115 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: FA 6681.
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Latec House,
741 Hunter Streel,
NEWCASTLE WEST, N.S.W.
Phone: MA 4344.
SY3O6IAB
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
block of home-units in the
Southern Hemisphere ) is being
erected on the shores of Sydney
Harbor.
Trading conditions were
favorable. Total group-revenue
for the year ended June 30,
1960, jumped by £1,709,343 to
£2 170,155. Cost of operations,
production, administration, in-
terest on borrowings, directors’
and auditors’ fees, etc., took
£1,554,605 more at £1,968,600
(including £2807 provided for
depreciation). After setting-
aside £74,285 for taxation (up
£56,532) and deducting £Bl
minority interest, consolidated
net profit was £98,125 higher
at £127,189:
j un e Profit. Reserves.
£ £ £
'58.. 2,098 2,098
'59.. 29,064 8 p.c. = 11,000 20,162
Preliminary expenses w/off,
£5424 14,788
Surplus on consolidation,
£144,515 .. .. 159,253
Share-premiums, £349,500 508,753
'6O. .127,189 10 p.c. = 60,256 575,686*
‘Subject to £36,716 intangibles at
30/6/’6O.
This was equivalent to an earn-
ing-rate of 22 p.c. on the higher
average capital, compared with
21.1 p.c. in the previous term.
The div.-rate was raised from
8 p.c. to 10 p.c., absorbing
£60,256.
The consolidated tax-provi-
sion looks more than sufficient
to cope with the recent increase
in the public-co. rate. Deprecia-
tion provision may be higher
this term, following the
£649,57 3 jump in the book-
value of fixed assets (to
£650,986).
Surplus on consolidation
(£144,515) represents the excess
of net assets of subsidiaries
over the effective cost of shares.
The £349,500 share-premium
reserve was accumulated “on
capital issued during the year
to other than shareholders.”
Reserves and undistributed
Profits totalled £575,686, sub-
} e , ct t 0 £36,716 intangibles
Webenture-issue expenses):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
p, ; , . 1959. 1960.
p i “Prtal •• £250,000 £783,233
Reserves .. 14,738 57i5 ; 68G
S! UreS •• 150,000 974,800
Overdraft " 173 ' 600 556,000
Deposits •' 3 ’ 816 43 > 805
Creditors " 80 ’ 000 748 ’ 760
Provf”, • 19.520 809,836
Final £ tax . atlon 17,753 86,308
Minoritv dIVI + ends 7 > ooo 41,703
minority interest S 259
Due mder con- ’
291,567 1,463,430
j. B . , £1,007,994 £6,086,820
U " d - buildings,
Shares etC ‘ •• 1,413 650,986
Trading " < n , " ~ 196,542
merits " Vest '
Bo ok-debt a -- 7 18,997 3,189,010
Cash •• 257,584 1,673,295
ln tangibie 8 -- ~ 340,271
•• ‘ 36,716
jj . £1,007,994 £6,086,820
the year paid capital
was lifted from £250,000 to
£783,233 (by 213 p.c.) to help
finance the rising volume of
business and pay for takeovers.
Acquisitions “were financed by
placing shares on the market at
a substantial premium.” Share-
holders were offered a one-for-
two issue at par in October,
1959. The co. has just an-
nounced a one-for-three par
issue late next September.
Consolidated balance - sheet
gives a snapshot view of the
group at June 30, 1960. Leaps
in borrowings, book - debts,
shares in other cos. and trading
investments (including land
held for sale etc.) reflect the
rapid rise in business.
Working-capital amounted to
£2,008,734. Net tangible asset-
backing works out at 16s. lOd.
for each 10s. ord.
Projects in hand (or in “an
advanced stage of planning”)
in N.S.W. and Victoria are said
to exceed £l4 million in value.
Lend Lease has done well
since it first set sail some two-
and-a-half years ago. Prospects
seem bright, but, like all the
other cos. of this type, the
group depends to a large degree
on the general economic
climate. Competition is very
keen.
It remains to be seen if the
mildly deflationary Budget will
have a dampening effect on the
co.’s growth-rate. The share-
market seems optimistic.
At the last sale in Sydney the
10s. ords. fetched 475. each,
for an immediate yield of 2.1
p.c. on the basis of the 10 p.c.
o Continued on page 32)




Royal Adelaide Preview
By RO[?]LESPISE
The leader of the pre-Show party was C. R. Kelly, M.H.R., and here the tourists are
shown inspecting the machinery on his property, Merrindie, Tarlee.
Mr. V. H. Ra[?] [?] advantages of Corriedale sheep at his property,
lerilderie, Birdwood.
Ten-year-old Glen Tscharke, sorting eggs on his
father’s poultry-farm, Hillside, Greenock.
Mrs. V. H. Rathjen nurses a Corriedale lamb on her
husband’s property at Birdwood.
There was a twofold aim
for this year’s South
Australian tour, organ-
ised by the Royal
Agricultural and Horticultural
Society of S.A. and 'Sponsored
by the Shell Co. of Australia
and Shell Chemical.
Besides giving writers, com-
mentators and cameramen an
opportunity to report prepara-
tions going on behind the
scenes for the Royal Adelaide
Show (which opens on Sep-
tember 8) tour-leader C. R.
Kelly, M.H.R., gave us a
practical demonstration of the
economics of farming. Every-
thing he showed us was
designed to illustrate some
particular aspect of one theme:
the difficulties and rewards
the modern farmer can experi-
ence. And a better qualified
leader would be hard to find.
Behind a mask of casual
bonhomie Bert Kelly hides an
alert, progressive mind and Ordinary—he knows what he’s
deep knowledge of what® about better than any
Australia tick. He took his listeners!
into his own constituency
Wakefield (“where the JJ 7*°% Agricultural
grows greener and, you 1J %
more smiling x- .He evening of Sunday,
showed us what menih? I'll, the tourists were enter-
and are doing to build ltd t 0 dinner by Robert C.
tralia. i A President of the R.A.
Perhaps the high# . H.S. at Wayville Show-
a series of succes fflt |,j| ai u Next morning we left
that we learnt soffij J House, on Adelaide’s
of in the . in an Ansett
was our visit to J coach, captained by
family property, which n Thompson, who
been obliged by f Q s * e JJ, *Ws y eai ' as
mentary duties to put s ®, 1 959 Tour-managers
capable hands of Shell, and
Until lately a coun fr , .from the R.A. and
R.A. and H.S., Kelly fjj sted by Chris
had to resign b(! Qur of Shell Chemical,
increasing political top Was at R ose .
he took time out agricultural
show us round the d j 1 mil es ralla - Situated
teach us what men an (|t , j, th of Adelaide,
Here's a politician out eastern edge of the
mallee-country which stretches
towards St. Vincent’s Gulf,
the college has an annual
rainfall of a fairly reliable
17.4 inches. In 1957, when
the total fall was only 9.07 in.
—lowest on record except
1914 and 1959—it was so
favorably distributed there that
wheat crops on fallow averaged
31.4 bushels an acre (16.5
bushels an acre in 1959).
The college-farm covers
2345 acres and would be
worth about £7O an acre at
the present time, though when
the first students were admitted
in 1883 the land was almost
valueless. The change in land-
values is mainly due to the use
of superphosphate (first tested
in Australia at Roseworthy in
its early years) and sowing of
clovers, which have increased
the soil-fertility of the S.A.
wheatbelt.
(Continued on page 34)
Rosemary Thomas with the Merino ram which her
father, Murray Thomas, of Stradbrooke, Clare, has
sold to a New. Zealand stud.


CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. ’Phone FM 5861
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURES
Rate of Interest Currency of Issue
7% • • • • 6 years
6Vz% • . . 4 years
6% . . . . 3 years
SVi% • • • 2 years
5% • . . . 1 year
4Vk% . • . 9 months
4% • • • • 6 months
3Va% • • • 3 months
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments,
free of exchange, on the last days of June,
September, December and March.
A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue
of Registered Debentures has been lodged with
the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
The Prospectus is now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange
Every Branch of
The National Bank
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the 43 Branches of
Custom Credit Corporation
LIMITED
l Assets in Australia Exceed £80,000,0001
'.w.wv.v;*
RD21.560
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEN, M. R. L. DOWLING, P. R. LEVY, A. P‘
REYNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partnc
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20
Prudential Building:, 150 Queen St., Melbourne —67-5957 (i 1
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wolloagon?
div.-rate. The co. intends- to
subdivide its scrip into ss.
units shortly.
Melbourne Steamship Co.
'T'he old-established Victorian
A ship-owner, etc., is in the
throes of a reorganisation. Its
last two major vessels (the
Duntroon and the Ellaroo) were
sold during the year, and for
the first time in its history
Melbourne Steam is without a
ship in the inter-State cargo-
trade.
The board proposes to pay-
off the £26,000 6 p.c. prefs.
and reduce each 20s. ord. by
ss.
Instead of independent ship-
ping operations the co. will
concentrate on participation
with Howard Smith in Bulk-
ships, Ltd., sharemarket invest-
ments and other interests (Mt.
Pleasant Coke Co. Pty., engin-
eering subsidiaries, etc.). Tow-
age business will be continued.
Results for last term show
a marked improvement com-
pared with the previous year.
Most of the co.’s activities
brought “satisfactory profits,”
but engineering orders were
slack. Sales of coke by Mt.
Pleasant subsidiary were brisk
and the entire output was “suc-
cessfully sold.”
Consolidated net profit for
the year ended June 30, 1960,
was £25,538 higher at £51,536
(including £10,049 income from
investments and £11,285 divs.
from subsidiaries). This was
after providing £10,762 for
depreciation (down £29,973 due
to the sale of vessels) and
setting-aside £21,500 for taxa-
tion (£19,771 more than the
abnormally low tax-provision
in 1959).
After paying pref. divs. the
earning-rate on the average
ord. capital was 14.7 p.c., com-
pared with 7.2 p.c. in the
preceding term:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
t ——Divs. To Re- Re-
Jne., Prft. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
6p.c. 9 p.c.
£,£&£/ £,
’55..58,186 1560 30,600 26,026 376,858
Tax overprovided, £4682 381,540
Net addition res., £l5 .. 381,555
To staff fund, £4738 .. 376,817
8 p.e.
’56..38,690*1560 27,200 9,930 386,747
Profit sale vessel, £30,442. . 417,189
Net reduction res., £2198.. 414,991
’57..55,210 1560 27,200 26,450 441,441
Tax overprovision, £4OOO .. 445,441
Profit sale assets, £2193 .. 447,634
Unexp. addition insurance
reserve, £736 .. .. 448,370
To long-service and contin-
gencies, £11,338.. .. 437,032
’58..59,654 1560 27,200 30,894 467,926
Unexp. addition insurance
reserve, £236 .. ..468,162
Unexp. reduction reserve on
consolidation, £3708 .. 464,454
To long-service leave pro-
vision, £843 .. '.. 463,611
’59..25,998 1560 27,200 460,849
Assets revaluation, £147,550 608,399
Unexp. reduction, £4868.. 603,531
12 p.c.
’60..51,536 1560 40,800 9,176 612,707
* Includes £31,000 transferred from
provision for overhauls.
The ord. div.-rate was lifted
from 9 p.c. to 12 p.c., absorb-
ing £40,800. Reserves benefited
by £9176, but were decreased
by £4868 unexplained reduc-
tions.
During the year the co.
wrote-up its fixed assets by
£147,550 (freeholds by £65,000
and shares in other cos. by
£82,550). This brought total
reserves to £612,707, free of in-
tangibles.
The proposed return of capi-
tal would involve a cash dis-
bursement of £lll,OOO, which
can “readily be found out of
the co.’s current assets” with-
out prejudicing future opera-
tions.
Consolidated balance - sheet
shows rises in sharemarket in-
vestments (partly due to the
write-up), stocks, debtors and
creditors. Sundry provisions
decreased.
Working - capital came to
£385,169. There were £363,376
contingent liabilities, represent-
ing “amounts due in respect of
shares and debentures in Bulk-
ships, Ltd., and for the build-
ing of a tug in Port Adrian
f tr°ade‘ l !- MelboUrne *»»£
P .ia c fsr“ ,
Pi-ef. .. £26,000 £ 1
n ' d - • • 340 - 0 °0 840®
Reserves .. 460> 84 9 J*® I ®}®
Minority interests 16,434 19 ’J
Creditors .. 354,920
Overdraft .. 46,709 ?’
Sundry provisions 133,463
Tax provision . . 12,086 6 „
Suspense account 6,664 7,?“
Final divs. .. iAqii 0
£1.411,505 £1,582,126
Ships, freeholds,
Share's " " 423 ’»
snares .. .. 64,995 155 no
Stocks .. .. 118,90 1 84 078
n eb - tor L ~ * • 443 ’ 611 62 sJ
Casn, bonds .. 303,538 290 32
Intangibles .. 40 _1
£.1,411,505 £1,582,126
The tug will be owned
jointly by Melbourne Steam-
ship and Howard Smith.
Freed from the threat of ex-
orbitant shipbuilding, mainten-
ance and operating costs the
co. may improve its results on
a trimmed capital.
At the last sale in Melbourne
the 20s. ords. changed hands
for 41s. each. The immediate
return is 5.8 p.c. on the basis
of the increased 12 p.c. div,-
rate.
Net tangible asset - backing
works out at 565. for each 20s,
ord.
Roma Natural Gas
Tn a joint half-yearly report
Associated Fre n e y Oil
Fields, N.L., Associated Aus-
tralian Oilfields, N.L. and the
Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum
Co., Ltd., claim to have “as-
sured production” of nine-
million cu. ft. of petroliferous
gas a day.
This is made-up of 1.25-
million cu. ft. from A.A.O. No,
4 (Hospital Hill) well, 1.25-
million cu. ft. from Timbury
Hills No. 1 well and 6.5-million
cu. ft. from Pickanjinnie No. 1
well. The reported position is
at the conclusion of Pickan-
jinnie No. 1 well.
The co.’s report that the
technical staff is now satisfied
that “we have large calculated
reserves. The basis of assess-
ment of all our reserves is
maintenance of supplies tor
periods of more than 20 yea rs -
The report estimates t e
capital-cost of a pipeline °
Brisbane at £5 million to W
million. “Given the right con-
ditions at both ends of the P(P
line, there would be no 1
culty in arranging independent
finance.”


■ Q an< * Cable Address: “Hudsonian” Brisbane
z “• & FRANK CHARLTON
/w' Charlton, J. M. Fay, C.A.B. Marjason, J. L. Russell
emierj of Brisbane Stock Exchange.)
STOc K AND SHARE BROKERS
P ' Chant,
T hird y loor —** diwjivliu
'•‘Phone; 2
G.P.O. Box No. 61A
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/~
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
INVESTORS ! !!
INVESTMENT
ADVISORY BUREAU
SUITE 19. 377 BOURKE ST.. MELB., C.l.
PHONE: 67-2325
OFFERS YOU A
12 MONTHS 1 SERVICE
• Keep informed authoritatively on the latest Stock
Exchange moves by subscribing to our investment
letter service.
• The following are just some of this year’s forecasts:
G. J. COLES, S.A. RUBBER, KATHLEEN
INVESTMENTS, M.K.U., A.M.1., BRYSONS, etc.
® These are but a few of the wonderfully accurate
forecasts subscribers have profited from our service.
• FORWARD £5 ss. AND THIS SERVICE IS
YOURS FOR 12 MONTHS.
Please transact share selling or buying through your own
sharebroker.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
* prospect of mdustml
CVm‘h e£ , ormo£ h uo '
strikes, is real enough n
*’ „t state of prosper, y
, full employment. With
%ndable detachment (a
' Government is always on
i against favoring the
L) the late Minister of
u o[ seemed to indulge in a
Mendous amount of con-
jjlation without producing a
taamic programme. It is not
to be expected that his succes-
tor.Mr. Hare, will be any more
positive or that he will depart
[ora the same policy of rather
anxious neutrality.
Opinion in management
titles is less cautious. There is
o sense of real urgency to get
Itiijs straighter. The em-
flojers’ organisations are con-
mptnous of suggested legisla-
te intended “to cement in-
farial goodwill” or to pro-
file compulsory contracts be-
teen employer and employed.
Ihey would be more than satis-
Wif existing arrangements
tere honored. And they want
I break down the barriers of
Nudice that attend the often
imaginary relationship between
lister and man.
The National Union of
Manufacturers, for example,
® been actively studying
labor relations for three
and the council’s find-
are due for publication.
According to a report of a
in one trade
J®!’ “Instances of labor
jmnsigence were recognised,
J the demand was for leader-
?> not mastery. The days of
J and firing, it was agreed,
“re over.
J e y t(i ie . acl ® rshi P>” it is prob-
le wit the meanin 8 is “of
for m r \ ers ’ by workers”
lrouhlp° St our industrial
fr ° m . the men ’ s
taction with their
Eh rbe seamen’s revolt,
effect d ° Ub i! y un f or tunate
holiday m u the tem P ers of
6rS ( u many of them
afl d upon ( ! therS COuntries )
finances of de P ressed
Nes, is ° h h f at sh ;PP in g com-..
L_’ he fntest instance.
Another obstacle is the close-
shop mentality at its parochial
worst. Of all places, Jarrow,
on Tyneside, which for nearly
thirty years has symbolised the
frightfulness of mass unem-
ployment, with attendant priva-
tion and despair, ironically
typifies this attitude. Unem-
ployment there being still three
times the national average, the
Government has tried to per-
suade employers to set-up fac-
tories. They wouldn’t, because
they feared recurrent labor
troubles. That their fears were
not irrational is proved by the
experience of one steel com-
pany which promised to bring
work to more than 1000 people.
Its plans were sabotaged by
local union officials
they wouldn’t accept
work-study methods.
If the need for reform is
urgent, the level at which it
should begin is abundantly
clear.
Brave Venture
The theatre critic normally
sees only one aspect of the
stage —the performance—and is
(rightly) unconcerned with the
background of the professionals
who are responsible for the
play. Yet it is impossible for
anyone who is a humanist and
lover of the arts not to be
conscious of the aspiration and
endeavor which too often
result only in frustration and
heartbreak.
Talent and capacity for hard
work by themselves are in-
adequate. The actor who would
establish himself in the West
End also needs a superb con-
stitution, a thick skin, a large
amount of luck, a fair amount
of money and, most of all, an
unshakeable belief in himself.
Such qualities, it is true,
have filled, and will continue to
fill, the top places in other
spheres. But there is a vital
difference. In business and the
non - artistic professions the
newcomer to the metropolis
can find an entree and earn
good money while he is estab-
lishing himself. In the theatre
he has to scratch for a living,
however able he may be.
Two people who, while not
Australians, gained most of
their experience in Australia,
have good reason to appreciate
these sentiments. They are
Leila Blake and Leon Peers,
whose short season of Chekhov
and Strindberg has just ended
at the Lyric Theatre, Ham-
mersmith. They have had to
wait two-and-a-half years for
the opportunity of a London
performance. Earning a living
mostly from commercial tele-
vision, they have saved money,
found backers and eventually
formed a company, Caravel
Productions, to put on the
plays.
Critical reception was mixed,
Perhaps Diane Cilento, who
played the title role in “Miss
Julie,” was miscast. Perhaps
this difficult play was an un-
fortunate choice. (It is the type
of play that a wealthy manage-
ment might, for reasons of
prestige, set against the profits
of a long-running farce.)
Although Mr. and Mre Peers
(as they are in private life) can
hardly be better-off financially,
they have established them-
selves artistically. Three film
studios have expressed interest
in Leon Peers, Leila Blake “has
people to see” and “Miss
Julie” is to go on tour, though
in company with N. F. Simpson
(“A Resounding Tinkle”) in-
stead of Chekhov (“The Pro-
posal”).
Before learning the full back-
ground, this reviewer saw both
plays. The Chekhov was a mis-
conception, but the Strindberg
was well above the artistic
level of similar ventures at the
Lyric. He felt that, both on
Leon Peers’s performance (keen
definition, fine presence) and
Leila Blake’s direction (excei-
lent overall but needing more
subtlety, especially in modula-
tion and pauses), the standard
of the Australian Little Theatre
must be as high as the best
elsewhere.


The college trains students
for diplomas in agriculture and
winemaking (this course in
cenology is the only one in
Australasia) and also teaches
animal-husbandry and farm-
engineering for the Adelaide
University course in agricul-
tural science. A diploma-
course for dairying was opened
in 1947, but was suspended
last year-
Welcomed by Dr. R. N.
McCulloch, principal of the
college, we were taken
to see the work being
done to prepare entries
for the Royal. The college,
which exhibits mainly in order
to train students who may later
become stud-stock breeders,
has a Show team of four Poll
Shorthorns (all by sires
imported from America), six
Jerseys, eight Southdowns and
24 Berkshire pigs.
C. W. Hooper, instructor in
sheep-husbandry, described the
method of preparing Show
entries. Farm-manager Ray
Norton paraded for us their
Clydesdale stallion, Mundutha
Bold Master. This horse, now
22 and a son of noted N.Z.
sire Great Count, was given
to the college by A. W. Clift,
of Pine Point, and now lives
there in retirement.
After lunch in the college
dining-hall we were told some-
thing about the special
advanced course in wine-
making by R. H. Kuehel,
senior lecturer in cenology, and
horticulturist P. Henry.
Allendale Stud
Our next stop was Allendale,
near Alma, where A. E. Day
has been conducting five
studs —Poll Hereford cattle ;
Suffolk, Dorset Horn and Poll
Dorset sheep; and Landrace
pigs—with the help of his two
sons. He lately sold the
property, which has been in
his family for 100 years, and
plans to transfer his stud-
breeding activities in Novem-
ber to land he has bought near
Bordcrtown. He has 10
Suffolks and five Poll Dorsets
entered for this year’s Royal,
but, because of his coming
move, he is exhibiting no pigs
or cattle this year.
Possibly best known as a
breeder of Suffolks —he might
be called the father of this
breed in Australia and, since
Allendale Suffolk stud was
founded in 1931, has won
championships at all the big
shows, including Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney and Perth
—he was particularly proud
of a four-tooth ram, champion
at Adelaide and Melbourne
last year as a hogget, which he
will be showing at Adelaide.
Of the 300 sheep that he has
shown from his Suffolk stud,
only 12 had failed to win a
ticket, he said.
Farm Economics
Adjoining Allendale and
just over the hill from the
Days’ homestead, lies Bert
Ke 11 y’s family property,
Merrindie —W. S. Kelly and
Son’s holding of 2200 acres,
situated eight miles n.-w. of
Tarlee, with an annual rainfall
of about 20 inches. This
property, which has been in
the Kelly family since the
1870’s, is the home of stud
Dorset Horn sheep, which are
recognised as one of the
foundation-flocks of the breed
in Australia. There is a fat-
lamb flock, too, and a Merino
breeding-flock on the property.
Many other activities are
also going on at Merrindie —
pasture-improvement, particu-
larly the establishment of
subterranean-clover on hill-
country, and of strawberry-
clover and other perennial
pastures ; silage-conservation ;
contour - banking ; and a
vigorous programme of tree-
planting. A great deal of
cropping is done on the place,
Roseworthy College students Colin Kay and John
Hardy grooming Poll Shorthorn bulls.
most of it to provide feed for
the sheep and not a great deal
for sale. Chou - mollier,
Sudan-grass and turnips are
grown for summer-feed.
Two of Bert’s sons, Tony
(aged 22 and responsible for
the general management of
the property while his father
is away) and Kim (20 years
old and in charge of the stud-
sheep), met us on arrival and
ROUTE OF THE TOUR
helped their father to show
us round an impressive display
of farm-machinery. This had
been organised by the Kellys,
“not to impress travelling
journalists,” as Bert explained,
but to show the complexity
of machinery which would
nowadays be available on any
farm of similar acreage to
Merrindie. Since 1946, he
said, £14,000 had
at Merrindie 0 n rfV w
excluding motor-veSS
trucks and 1 JJS? to
“Farming i s \ io d/ W
nowadays, and city folk??
not imagine that alu h ° uld
has to do is to sit 2 arnier
watch the stuff grow
the contrary. T his pa J j
machinery is a il u ? 1
increase production. 2,5
the time comes when J
investment ceases to be £
able, farmers
stop spending their money«
increasing production and £
the whole tempo of our I
gress will lose its momeni"
He went on to explain hot
the constant output of a far.
tory differs from the produc-
tion of a farm, where res*
can never be certain.
We also looked-over a
mouse-proof barn, built at
ground-level, which cost £1
to erect (excluding labor) and
provides much cheaper storage
than a silo or barn built above
ground-level.
We looked at the Sw
teams: five rams and fora
lambs for Adelaide and eight
rams for Melbourne. The
flock, Kim told us, comprises
300 breeding-ewes with 1
ewe-hoggets as replacements,
■
Civic Reception at Clare
We had afternoon-tea at
the homestead and then, after
a noticeable wait while one i
the cameramen changed his
film-pack, set-off for Clare,
where we were scheduled 0
spend the night.
Clare, 83 miles north of
Adelaide and with an averaje
annual rainfall of 24 inches,
was first settled in 1840 a®
aptly named “the garden 4
the North.” The advent i
superphosphate, together »
the district’s rich soil, boo®
agriculture. But even be o
this, dwindling wheat-yre
had encouraged farmers
plant orchards and vineyan
which were the start of t 1
flourishing _ dried-fruit
wine industries. The
is also good for dairying,
the town holds one ° t
most modern nulk-treatme.
plants in Australia. ,> s
also the centre of one o ■
most important honey-p
ing districts. dnt
We were acc ° rd £ V
reception by M. #
Mayor of Clare, < „
poration. Af ! e of color-
watched a couple
films; one of *
methods of conlr ? * Murl:
—was made > . hW ii!
Thomas on to '■ A
properties at btra


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin" or any newsagent
~ in Australia or N.Z.
The other demon-
sCrub-development
y b rooke and Kadlunga
® nrnina our first visit
'“'"Murray Thomas’s
« !S at Stradbrooke
if a young man of -5,
i bought 800 acres near
;n 1932. Since, as he
u, has “accumulated a
t our children, a son-m-
-jiadaughter-in-law, two
I s n nc 14 houses on
Ig acres, two Merino and
’ p o n Merino studs, a
L Leicester stud and a
pi Hereford stud. In his
opinion, the permanency of
i enterprise depends on the
and capacity of the
gager generation, “with any
lip I can give them,” to
la* the various stud-breed-
j. establishments. Of his
Ud acreage, 10,000 acres are
pnttically undeveloped coun-
cil the Keith area, so his
seas and son-in-law have
plenty of opportunity to show
Aeir mettle.
Tie Fairbanks Merino stud,
Emblem Poll Merinos, and
Emblem Downs Border
fester and Poll Hereford
Puds are now accommodated
ill Keith. At Stradbrooke,
111 River and Hallett, Murray
Thomas, with the help of his
pager son, looks after the
Stradbrooke Merino and Poll
Merino studs and hopes to
1 production still further.
Water - erosion was his
ptest problem, but is now
controlled by construction of
tas and contour-drains, and
the establishment of
improved-pastures of lucerne,
Vfass, phalaris and clovers,
w only Merino-breeder in
y to w in the Merino Ram
championship award in the
“Pen section at Sydney Sheep
, and sharing with the
Brothers, of Ashrose,
e distinction °f winning both
J: c >Pi° n awards at
im e Th° yai in ° ne year ’
r y Thomas has sold his
j dbrooke an d Stradbrooke
i,AiLt d r heep in eVery State
!*?' a and also in New
fat stop was at Kadlun a
to
wh osP S • Propriet ary, Ltd.,
C h a ? airman ’ A. J. Mel-
»(* Carr 'ed-out extensive
and soil m pasture 'improvement
Main manaBement-
from the'tf • here > a P art
which ha? . h sto ! lc homestead
family f J 56611 ln the Melrose
"here w e J llany y ears and
m omin e -tpa re entert ained to
chef on ttud p as in the Per-
• bounded in 1913,
Tibby MacKellar feeding the sire of the Percheron
stud, Histon Diplomat, and his offspring at Kadlunga,
the property of A. J. Melrose, M.L.C., at Mintaro.
this stud is now known through-
out Australia, and there is a
constant demand from out-
back stations for Percheron
colts to be mated with thor-
oughbred mares so as to pro-
duce more weight for hacks
and stock-horses. Over 20 Per-
cheron mares are kept at Kad-
lunga and the head-sire is
Histon Diplomat, imported in
1948 as a three-year-old from
Chivers and Sons’ Histon stud
at Cambridge (Eng.).
More than 200 Angus cattle
are run at Kadlunga as a com-
mercial herd, some being mated
to a white Shorthorn bull to
produce the popular blue
roans.
We returned to Clare for
lunch provided by the C.W.A.
and afterwards had an oppor-
tunity of inspecting the Golden
North factory there, where we
were shown the process of
packaging homogenised milk in
plastic-coated containers,
shaped like a triangular pyra-
mid, for transport to places as
far away as Port Augusta and
Whyalla.
Bundaleer
The firm of W. B. Ashby
and Sons conducts the Ashrose
Merino stud at Hallett, and the
Bundaleer Poll Shorthorn stud
at Bundaleer, between Gulnare
and Spalding. Ashrose Merino
Stud is this year celebrating its
golden jubilee, having been
founded in 1910 by the late
W. B. Ashby with 50 cast-for-
age stud-ewes and a stud-ram
from North Bungaree, whose
progeny were later mated with
rams of Haddon Rig and Bun-
demar blood. Collinsville
blood was introduced in 1938
and since then no other outside
blood has been used. Ashrose
has had remarkable success
since winning its first grand-
championship for a ram at
Adelaide in 1947.
Last year it took the grand-
championship for both ram and
ewe. This year’s Ashrose team
will be: 21 sheep for Adelaide
Royal Show, 23 rams for Ade-
laide sales, and 17 for Perth
sales. Lately the stud bought
the Poll Merino stud-sire P.B.
84 from F. S. Falkiner and Sons
to widen the scope of its poll-
breeding programme. P.B. 84,
champion Poll Merino ram at
the 1960 Sydney Sheep Show,
is the highest - priced Poll
Merino ever bought for a South
Australian stud.
The three Ashby brothers,
Tom, Eric and Bill, who met
us when we arrived at Bunda-
leer, work as a team. Tom ex-
plained their beef-cattle activi-
ties. He told us that Bundaleer,
which houses the stud Short-
horns, was the original home-
stead and woolshed portion of
the Maslins’ Bundaleer station.
The place was bought in 1919
and the beef-herd was started
in 1944 with Donnybrook
cows, followed by females from
Nalpa and Munduney. In
1954 a Poll Shorthorn bull,
originally imported from the
U.S.A., was bought, and top-
females were also purchased
from the Netherby dispersal-
sale in 1957, together with
a six - months - old bull-calf,
Netherby King O’Malley. The
show team this year will be
four bulls and two heifers —all
by this sire.
Afternoon-tea in the home-
stead followed, and then, after
a quick look at the work in the
shearing - shed, we made our
way to Burra, where we spent
the night.
Princess Royal
Next morning, our first stop
was at Princess Royal, Andrew
Tennant’s 21,000-acre property
a few miles south of the town.
Copper outcrops were dis-
covered there in 1842, at the
same time that the Burra mine
was pouring-out its “red gold.”
The mine was opened in rivalry
to Burra there was a joke
about “the nobs and the snobs,”
and could the mine have been
named after the mother of
Kaiser Bill? It did not come
up to expectations and, once its
limitations as a mining-field
were apparent, the land was
(Continued on page 44)


Westerns Aren't as Bad as They're Painted
What is Wanted on TV
Is Australian national sentiment and
culture being undermined by
Maverick, Wyatt Earp, Wild Bill
Hickock, Marshal Troop and the host
of other American folk-heroes who
cavort nightly on the TV-screens in
hundreds of thousands of Australian
homes? Would a sound local film in-
dustry “with particular emphasis on
documentary and TV-films” be in the
national interest? Is it practicable to put
the Australian film industry on a sound
footing by Government assistance? What
is the Australian potential for pictures
filmed by TV-techniques?
These questions were debated in the
Senate recently on a motion initiated by
Senator Hannam (Vic.). Except for slight
lapses Senators approached the subject
on a non-party basis. Most showed a
good working knowledge of Western
serials. Some gave the impression that
they had picked-up this knowledge
against their will or perhaps in the path
of duty. Others admitted a sneaking
regard for Westerns, but implied that
they felt rather ashamed of themselves
for being addicted to the vice of watch-
ing the gun-slingers.
There was general regret at the dearth
of Australian material in TV-programmes
at peak viewing - hours and a fairly
general agreement that a continuation of
present trends would mean Americanisa-
tion of Australian taste, particularly
among children. Senator Hannam, after
recounting the creditable record of Aus-
tralian pioneers of the film industry and
contrasting the production figures of
30-40 years ago with the no-production
figures (in terms of feature-films) of
today, said:
The children and adolescents of the nation
are being bombarded at the cinema, and
nightly on television, with the American
way of life, the American accent and
American morals ... I feel that if this
policy continues we will be in danger of
losing our national characteristics.
TV and Crime
C'enator O'Byrne took an even more
pessimistic view:
The minds of our young people are
being fed with crimes of all kinds depicted
'on him, and the harvest that will be
reaped in the future will be a terrible
one. It is appalling to read in the news-
papers of the crimes that are being com-
mitted in this country today—crimes that
were unknown in Australia until recently.
But crimes of all kinds are to be seen
enacted regularly on television screens.
To illustrate the influence of TV on
the minds of young children he recounted
a conversation “that transpired between
a friend of mine and his neighbor’s small
son.”
My friend was asked by the boy where
his mother was, to which my friend
replied that she was dead. The little boy
said: “Who shot her?”
The Bulletin published this little
anecdote on its “Society” page some
months ago. It is pleased to have it
authenticated by an unimpeachable wit-
ness, but doubts its value as evidence of
a growing crime-wave.
Off the Ground
CJenators differed on the desirability of
Government subsidies for the film
industry, but were in general agreement
that there should be a higher proportion
of Australian shows on TV-programmes.
Very few people would quarrel with that
sentiment, but the Senators seemed to get
off the ground a little when it came to
suggesting the type of film that would
adequately meet the demand. Docu-
mentaries on New Guinea, the Snowy
Mountains scheme, Australian industry
and Australian scenery are all very well
in their way. Many excellent shorts of
this type have already been shown and
many more will follow. But they can
never constitute the backbone of a pro-
gramme.
The majority of people who watch
TV, like the majority of people who go
to the films or the theatre, are not seek-
ing culture or education, but entertain-
ment. Viewers watch Westerns not to
imbibe American culture, but because
they find them entertaining. They pro-
vide action, conflict and a story—often
the same story, but still a story. The
worst of them are no worse than the
Saturday - afternoon cowboy shows
youngsters have watched in an unbroken
line since the days of William S. Hart,
Tom Mix, Buck Jones and Hopalong
Cassidy. The best aren’t really Westerns
at all; they merely use the mechanism
of a Western as a means of presenting
a story.
Ward Bond’s “Wagon Train” has been
wending its way across America for
months (perhaps years). In a general way
it seems to be heading for San Fran-
cisco, but whether it is ever intended to
arrive there is quite immaterial to the
popularity of the series, which is due
to the fact that each episode packs a
fairly entertaining story. It is remark-
able what interesting people you can
run into on a wagon train. One episode
even made use of the main plot of Great
Expectations with Pip, the convict
Magwitch, Estella, Miss Faversham and
all. In a similar way a “Maverick”
adventure turned out to be an adaptation
of Sheridan’s The Rivals.
Entertainment First
Tf Australian TV-films are to force
A their way in among the popular im-
ported shows now holding the premier
time-spots on the programmes (7.30 p.m.
!o 9.30 p.m ) they win have to do,
the_ basis of entertainment-value V
their educational or cultural contem
This shouldn’t be beyond our resoo,
Some excellent shows, “live” ?
are. already being seen bo? 0 '
national and commercial channels
they are isolated performances j
essence of the TV-programn,; ",
tmuity, which in this context »
taking the one set of characters Ita
a. series of adventures.
The Australian scene, “ way
life,” culture or what - have - you -
be presented as incidental to ( a
quite natural to) the story and 4
characters. A documentary on Ne
Guinea may be very instructive, but fei
people would elect to watch 39 mil)
half-hour programmes on that
But a series based on the advent® o 1
a New Guinea patrol-officer, a goli
miner, a planter or the skipper of asm
craft on the Sepik River, could make 11
of the same background material at
provide good entertainment as well,
There is no need to follow slavish
the American models, but we can at let
learn from them. One series is based i
cattle-droving ; another on the constri
tion of a railway ; a third on skin-divin
The Australian scene abounds«
similar possibilities. If pioneer then
are wanted there are the gold-rushes, t
opening- up of new lands, camel-ten
in Central Australia (something 1
American film could ever offer), I
Overland Telegraph, the Coolgardi
water-scheme.
Themes of Today
Nearer our own time the Fiji
Doctor Service, the Snowy Mm
tains- scheme (action, not prof
ganda or instruction). The praw®
fleet on the North Coast of New Son
Wales should have possibilities
should the sugar industry (“Tiro b°j
only showed the canecutters at play) J
timber-getting, if the popularity 01 wo
chopping competitions is any S 1
pearl-fishing, whaling—even sur
saving. The field is endless, P[
the accent is on story and entertain nlJt
So long as that is accepted as the P
essential the more attention 8
authentic background the better.
One 39-episode Australian sen ,
shown on TV soon should P roV ‘ .
test of the reaction of audienc e A
local product. This is “WhiM ’,
on the Cobb and Co. coactlin = fh j L mi
will be interesting to # se ® f . te A that
adolescents are so far indoc r
they will refuse to accept a o esaß J
against a background of S u , j
a driver who speaks in g°° v
tralian.


Start the day right!
F*
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
tftf Horses
L suggested here last
. L an early win by
was probable-going
£ Zealand gelding s
SJL and his showing
gallop with
iteTulloch. The win
i f came at his first run in
Sydney, m Satur-
L Warwick Stakes. A
; f[ at 12 furlongs in N.Z.
j second to Jalna in the
Lies Wellington Cup in
iltiiralasian record time of
j| Sparkler performed
ito beat a smart field
in It w.-f.-a. event, running
| { seven furlongs in 1.23.9,
it®! time for the race,
toiler has won on both firm
af soft tracks, is a powerfully
U five-year-old, and is raced by
liiota Rich, R. Montgomery
aiH.N. Webb. He’s being trained
atlandwick by T. J. Smith, who
mi no secret of his belief that
j'tiding is another Redcraze.
My, the stable has its sights
1 01 the Melbourne Cup.
idler has 8.6 in the Metrop.,
to in the Epsom, 8.9 in the
itld Cup and 8.7 in the Mel-
bneCup. However, the Metrop.
i land a penalty, and con-
Etions would hardly risk that
4ey reckoned he could beat
fcti and the rest in the £26,000
taington race.
Sparkler may have his next race
'J* Spring Handicap at Tatter-
■s Randwick meeting on Sep-
wer 10, when Tulloch is
trpected to be a runner in the
w-a. Chelmsford Stakes.
Enzedder, Waipari,
®«i!y trounced the locals
«frarwick Farm, winning the
Cup decisively, to
Sydney record two
J for two wins. In New
“ aland Waipari won several
J, a f U P to 11 furlongs,
ft.® Brisbane last June
C e 2 * n both the
* S a £ ap and Tatler-
bt seems hptt^V n tlle Metro P->
15 on 8.6 in
\ trainer j However,
> the
y 4s a toh rwi - kFarm
A.J.C. njr ® oe given an
JosehiH Quinft’ the
etter guide 11 ft will be a
JJtt of bacieft as tbe r ig bt
being by
ft frcftk
Oob y w r erchance fe y
II bvGmftP') from
A y«ar ? h ft thlc (imp.).
e sta ged a t §° Se hill Guineas
Kandwick, which
course will have to stand up to
a heavy round of fixtures from
Saturday, September 10, onwards,
running through to October 15. In
that time there will be eight
meetings altogether, with something
good on offer for the best class
of horses at each of them. The
£2050 Flight Stakes (for three-year-
old fillies, each with 8.7) on the
third day of the A.J.C. spring
meeting looks an easy one for
Wenona Girl.
The good-looking three-year-
old colt Artistic was another
whose Warwick Farm perform-
ance seemed very attractive.
Taken to the lead soon after
the start, he held off the oppo-
sition all the way to win the
“They said to carry him a couple of rounds!”
Second Maiden in the smart
time for this company of 1.39.2.
Trained by Charlie Cullen and
ridden by stable apprentice F.
Carpenter, the colt is by Gene-
tout (Fr.) from Art Critic (imp.)
by Stardust from Connoisseur
by Fair Trial and is related to
several winners in England in
top company.
• • • •
Sea Hound, one of the most
versatile gallopers in training,
and winner of a dozen races at
from five furlongs to one mile,
added the main Warwick Farm
sprint, the Wallacia Handicap,
to his list, nicely beating the
strongly fancied Count Rego,
with Another Link third. Sea
Hound has a fair claim to his
reputation as an “iron horse.”
Now a five - year - old, he’s
been in almost continuous
training for the best part of a
couple of years, and evidently
likes it.
• • • •
It would be fitting for
Wenona Girl to win the Can-
terbury Guineas next Saturday
—the brilliant three-year-old is
owned by S.T.C. chairman Bill
Longworth, whose club will, of
course, be running the show.
She’d be popular with punters,
too, in view of her striking
win over Sky High and Persian
Lyric in the Hobartville Stakes.
That pair also figure in the
entry-list for the Guineas, and
should the trio be in the field
most of the rest would be best
given a quiet Saturday after-
noon at home.
* * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Twenty - six
years ago I followed a com-
petent young jockey whose
skill Lady Luck seemed
reluctant to reward. Then,
out of the blue, he rode three
winners on the same after-
noon, including Broad Arrow
in the Sydney Cup of 1934,
all at long odds. This, a red-
letter day for me as a modest
punter, marked the turning-
point in the rider’s career; he
went immediately to England,
and during the next 20 years
he achieved ranking among
the 10 best jockeys there and
probably in Europe, retiring
and returning to Australia
last year. It seemed strange
after all those years to meet
Edgar Britt, now fiftyish and
looking very fit, at his lovely
home at South Coogee; a
shining reminder that while
opportunities are many in the
racing-game they must be
recognised when they come
and seized with courage.
Edgar Britt harbors one regret
—that the time has arrived to
retire.
* * *
“Post”: A McGregor
joke-block about a racehorse
sinking a few beers in the bar
before racing recalled a one-
time bush champion trained on
whisky. On the day I saw him
win a double, by any number
of lengths each time, he con-
sumed a full bottle of Scotch
straight from the bottle
—about half for each start.
When he “wasn’t wanted,” it
was simply a matter of depriv-
ing him of his wee drappie.
* * *
At the Valley
There was a lot to think
about after Saturday’s racing
at Moonee Valley. The mile
Tullamarine Handicap brought
together the equal Caulfield
Cup favorites, Olive Branch
and liumquh, both racing first-
up from a spell. Olive Branch
has been pottering about
Cerchi’s stables since May,
while liumquh has been spelling
since January.
Olive Branch was obviously
considered well forward, as
short odds were accepted
about him. The four-year-old
Alonzo-Dawn of Peace geld-
ing, carrying lib. less than his
Caulfield Cup weight (8.5),
looked the winner when he led
into the short straight, but he
just failed to see the mile out.
liumquh ran on well into fourth
place after being in more than
his share of trouble. Both
horses will improve, but it
added nothing to the merit of
their performances that the
Tullamarine was won by
Prince Lupus, who had been
failing in country races.
• • • •
Quite the most impressive
performance at the Valley was
Dhaulagiri’s first-up win in
the first division of the Mace-
don Welter (six furlongs less
20yds.). Burdened with 9.7,
and starting from outside all
but one of the 14 runners, he
covered a lot of extra ground
before he took control at the
home - turn. The favorite,
Sahibah, made a strong chal-
lenging run, but Dhaulagiri
held her off comfortably.
Throughout his career, the four-
year-old High Peak horse has given
promise of winning a really good


%u'ew tj^Ze^&ctru/et*
BY APPOINTMEMT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEM
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN DEWAR & SONS LTD.. PERTH. SCOTLAND
<E/cof/widti c&u/e -/Ate 7A&AAti^(pAotQB
Dewar's
The famous name in the History
of
Scotch Whisky
White Label'
Dewars Scotch Whisky
it never varies
SOMtOA®
ipfiH
jOCw
50 Gold
g»
Frill
M
\ IVu* Me Ms I
jg^jzp,
<fchn Dewar & Sons
DISTILLERS
P e sCo T^
""•-K.HrvwkH.s.Wl Otyo .
». *cr courcurs
WMLLI WIIUII. «J* J
Guaranteed wholly distilledmatured and blended inScoilqtuL
race, but has run a lot of minor
placings. This might be his year.
The bookies were most impressed
with Saturday’s effort, and moved
him up to be on the top line of
Caulfield Cup fancies. He has
8.9 in that race.
• • •;
Another excellent first-up
run came from Lady Major ;
in her first outing since March
the Bob Major filly gave
speedy Lady Regal a long
start into the straight in the
second Ailsa Handicap for
fillies, but ran her down effort-
lessly. Lady Major showed
top-class form in the autumn,
and has obviously come-up
better than ever. She’s engaged
in the coming good-class races
for fillies and looks like being
one of Victoria’s main hopes.
• • • •
New Zealand trainer Eric
Ropiha, who has brought half-
a-dozen horses to Melbourne
for the spring racing, landed
the mile Morang Handicap
(three-year-old colts and geld-
ings) with one of them,
Arakhan.
In the way things happen in
racing, though Arakhan ran a
second at Wellington just before
coming over, his price on Saturday
drifted from eights to twenties, so
the stable evidently didn’t think
much of his chance. On the other
hand, the Ropiha-trained filly
Return Fare started favorite and
ran nowhere in the race won by
Lady Major, and the stable’s other
runner at the meeting, Ilumquh, was
also solidly backed and beaten.
Arakhan just got home from
Terrific, but he’s likely to show
a handsome profit on the cost ot
bringing him over.
• • • •
Albury railway-worker K.
Dickenson has thoroughly
enjoyed his trips to Melbourne
with his horse Gold Book over
the past few months, starting
him in the city four times
since the end of May for three
wins and a second. In Satur-
day’s Macedon Welter, second
division, the six-year-old Blue
Booklet gelding led for most
of the journey and won with
a lot in hand. He has won a
string of country races, and
will have his severest test so
far in the Whittier Handicap
at Caulfield next Saturday.
His form has been so con-
sistently good that he will have
many supporters for that race.
• • • •
The eight-year-old Delville
Wood gelding Royal Somme
is now the sole racing repre-
sentative of Ossie Porter, who
only a few years ago owned a
big string of horses, and caused
a flurry every time he stepped
into the ring. Royal Somme
bobs up regularly for a win,
and on Saturday Geoff Lane,
who had won earlier on Dhau-
lagiri, handled him perfectly,
in the 13-furlongs Ngarveno
Handicap, taking him through
on the rails as the leaders
swung wide on the home-turn
to add another to his list.
• • • •
It’s Memsie Stakes day at
Caulfield next Saturday, and
Lord will attempt to win the
race for the third year in suc-
cession. On his home track, he
will probably succeed. If
Webster runs, he could make
it interesting, and the return of
Nilarco will be worth watching.
* * *
Last week a group of Mel-
bourne racing men combined
to buy the South Australian
galloper Exaudi, for 10,000-
gns. and they had a sizeable
return on their investment when
Exaudi scored a very easy win
in the Queen’s Cup at Mor-
phettville last Saturday. A
year ago Exaudi was a maiden,
and racing poorly, but over the
past few months he has won a
string of races with such ease
that he is considered a real
Caulfield Cup chance. He has
only 7.7 in that race and when
weekend form in all States is
digested, Exaudi will not be far
from favorite.
Trots
At Harold Part i„ . „
night six-year old & *
lander Graeme Scott £,Jj
performed All Clear Wel
Trotters’
of a wind infirmity r
Scott had never been n n
track until 12 montV racf
when a successful o pe ra S
got him right. He’s?
had three wins and a *“
m four provincial S JI
°? ere . should he more',,
ahead. S,x-year-old ft 2
pacer James Scott
l e t co " d ™Pr«ive appa*
I 1 lh e Purh ln landing |
Gordon Handicap-!*
a record in. winning to
Qualifying last season, aid
since then has won many Fres-
for-alls in good company 01
country tracks. Friday’s «
made his tally 23 from 5
starts.
* * *
Other Sports
After his defeat inatraimg-
trial up at Townsville, John
Devitt was tipped in a pat,tee
last week to alter things when
it came to the real test in Rome.
He duly did ; winning Aus-
tralia’s first gold medal tj
getting home a touch ahead of,
American Lance Larson in Ik
100-metres freestyle swim. Hi
Yanks shot in a protest on to


reasonable ground
automatic timing-
# ‘ owed their chap the
& sn h , lt the International
heaved the protest
a matter of minutes.
Two first-grade
of different codes,
tea® mates in the Aus-
i ifwater-polo team at the
. L-Randwick (Sydney)
[ U Union second-row
ft Dick Thornett and
'L (Melbourne) halt-
ed flanker Keith Wiegard
1 played as an amateur in
Sessional V.F.L.). Wie-
d was badly hurt in a
•smash last year and has
uu,played much football in
|i two seasons. Thornett
j one of three well-known
, j,j|¥ Union footballing
'is, John is the Test
Cutaway of recent years,
pKen, who has repped
; j),EW. as fullback, is now
inland playing Rugby
Lit, Apropos, Australia’s
taler-polo skipper at the 1956
'lymph was another well-
pi Sydney Rugby Union
fctballer, Ray Smee.
* * *
til (he footy-season winding-
I V.F.L. “four” leaders Mel-
isme suffered another defeat on
.Way, the Dons this time being
liters thereof, 10.18-10.5. it
i Melbourne still on top with
»y, who downed St. Kilda
1W; then Essendon, with
pgwood next, ’Wood easily
■ting for Norths, 11.12-6.8;
>1 Hawthorn (beating Geelong
WM.9 on Saturday) only just
P out. In Saturday’s other
j™ 5 Carlton beat Souths,
«-m; and Footscray walloped
Wmond, 18.9-11.11. It’s Essen-
® aid Collingwood for it in the
* semi, this weekend,
h Sydney Rugby Union Gordon
yfway to the premiership
defeating Rand-
Iflfm c j and in the Rugby
f Easts won the right to try
2 Ck ,\ gainst St ' George in the
: ® al b Y heating Wests 20-15.
: Len Fitzgerald, one
j e Australian Rules
If si nce War 11, has
5t,,,:.; decided to retire.
a a H.J V e'af n S 01l i ngwood Seconds
tttlip be was promoted
dr lo , r Slde .at 15 —youngest
ill L, y yktorian League
4 the. u • Phy ed 93 games
bnhday » before his 21st
lied poTi; ‘Fitzy” then
It Sturt or a clearance
fed, an( i •}> , Collingwood
for a J?® stoo(d out of foot-
-1!) Collinl S ° n 'j Tbe next year
! Played iK ood relented, and
?® n ing ([,„ ~ garnes for Sturt,
ft League Medal-the
fa >rSt X d for their best
f told > he nfei r ~" tllree times.
“'■State Jfef 4 m ore than 20
t tral «. and S 6S with South
} y selected in
If 16 yearf • tea , m J n 1953.
& ed in every v e game he
f except thl P? Sltl on on the
dU ae Wing.
“Kabara”: Essendon was
the first V.F.L. side to reach
1000 points this year, going to
1071 with its 16.11 (107
points) at Hawthorn in the
12th round. Melbourne, at
that stage, just one goal short
of its 1000 (994 points), was
the next team to get there, in
the following round, with its
narrow 6.13-6.9 win over St.
Kilda. Apropos, though its
percentage was to fall in the
following rounds, Melbourne
set a record percentage of
169.4 at the end of the 10th
round—-the highest percentage
“Fair go, Joe — that's Charlie's fish!"
recorded by any V.F.L. team,
at that stage or later, in any
season since 1925, when the
V.F.L. first comprised 12
clubs.
• • • *
“O’Twit”: The Australian
Rules football scores I quoted
in my sporting par. (B.
22/6/’6O) have been queried in
some quarters, but to prove it
possible it happened again on
July 16. This time the 79 scor-
in a cWc in Qfl minutes of
ing shots, in yU minut s 01
play, were 49.26 to 2.2 the
same team being beaten by
different opponents in each
case "
* * * *
“Lai”: St. Patrick’s College’s
. . j. r •
outstanding performances in
that Geraldton (W.A.) competl-
tion (B. 20/7/’6O) most prob-
nkiy t*nr»i/ no on all-timp rficnrd
ably rank; as an all-time recora,
but one effOlt that surely
surpasses any of their individual
performances is that of the
Rye Club, who play in the
Nepean League in Victoria.
Rye, in their match against
Naval Recruits, kicked 68.31
(439 points) to one point!
Heroes were Marty Duncan
(28 goals), Brian Thompson (18
goals) and Milton Percy (12
goals). Naval Recruits
were—literally—a bit sore...
they’d been inoculation guinea-
pigs the previous Wednesday,
* * *
“Tom”: N.S.W. Rugby
Union hopes to have a two-
division Sydney Metropolitan
district competition by 1963.
Secretary Frank Cooper states
that the aim is to have eight
clubs in each division. A
general meeting of the State
body appointed a committee to
plan the expansion—a decision
forced by the big increase in
the number of juniors. In 1958
there were 2000 ; this year there
are 6000.
* * *
“Selja”: In an earlier par. here
1 told how Tumut had taken the
jy[ a h er Cup (most coveted trophy
and greatest money-spinner in
N.S.W. country Rugby League) by
beating Harden 8-4 in a tryless
game on July 2, in what was
Harden’s 30th successive defence.
Tumut made only one successful
defence of the Cup, against Coota-
mundra, and on July 16 was
walloped 41-8 by West Wyalong,
Which includes State forward Ron
Crowe and former State players
Col Rcitcliff and Kevin
Wegt Wyalong then made three
successful defences—in one of them,
a rough game in which it beat
Barmedman 15-8 on July 23, three
were sent off (Crowe and Mossman
and Barmedman goal-kicker Athol
McCabe). On August 13, in the
last Maher Cup match of the
season, Young beat West Wyalong
4-2 in another tryless game, the
winning goal being a 60yds. effort
by fullback Bob Huckle. Though
the result was a surprise, Young
includes former State players
Bobby Honeysett and lan Fowler.
It’s the first time Young has held
the Cup for four years.
* * *
If ever there was a date on
which the N.S.W. Milk Board’s
wisecrack “Let’s Crack a
Bottle” might be bet on to
come good in a big way it
could be September 10, when
the most famed of Australian
amateur cycle races—the Goul-
burn to Sydney—is due to be
sweated-out by a field of 115
riders. The Milk Board’s spon-
soring it, with the N.S.W.
Amateur Cyclists’ Union in
control.
* * $
“Cupper”: The N.S.W.
Lawn Tennis Association has
virtually insured itself against
possible loss on seating for the
Davis Cup Challenge Round
in December. It has been
given power by the L.T.A. of
A. to erect 17,500 seats, and
more if necessary, but it isn’t
exactly looking forward to
more seats. Instead, with the
possibility that the public
won’t be as strongly attracted
as hitherto, it has let contracts
for seating, to be completed
only to the exact number of
tickets sold up to a closing
date. Which means there
won’t be unsold seats in any
circumstances —sound enough,
too, considering the present
cost of even temporary seating.
* * *
“Golfer”: N.S.W. Golf
Association gained special
kudos in the championships
decided at Perth, in which the
N.S.W. reps, collected all the
Australian amateur titles,
with, as well, Nagle the best pro.
in the Open. Twenty-three-year-
old Bruce Devlin, of Goulburn,
became the first amateur since
1939 (Jim Ferrier’s year) to win
the Open championship, while Ted
Ball (20) won the Australian
amateur championship, and with
Phil Billings (21) won the foursomes
title. Ball also is the N.S.W.
amateur champion; Billings the
State’s junior champion. And
great credit should certainly go to
the N-S.W. association. Always
looking ahead, it has given so much
attention to the promotion of
junior golf that the State now has
dozens of brilliant youngsters.
Ball and Devlin were given their
chances in junior teams, and it’s
largely due to the same policy of
the association that N.S.W. has
now won the teams’ championship
of Australia for the last six years.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CUBAN DEFECTORS
TD ecent defections from the
Cuban regime must, notes
a “New York Times” editorial,
“be giving Premier Fidel Castro
and his associates food for
regret and anxiety”:
“The latest to flee is Raul
Chibas, who has sought refuge
in the United States. Dr.
Chibas is the brother of the
late ‘Eddy’ Chibas, the idol of
Fidel Castro’s youth, the man
who was his leader in the
Orthodox party before the
Batista coup in 1952.
“Raul Chibas, headmaster of
a military academy, was one of
Fidel Castro’s most loyal sup-
porters. He is a representative
of the finest type of Cuban, as
a man and as a patriot. Yet
even he has found it impossible
to carry on.
“Most of the early exiles
were ‘Batistianos,’ and some
were unsavory characters.
However, there have been a
number of defectors lately
whose character and patriotism
are beyond reproach. One
thinks of men like Miguel
Quevedo, of ‘Bohemia’ [a pro-
Castro magazine], Sergio
Carbo, of the ‘Prensa Libre,’
Dr. Miro Quesada, ex-Premier
and Ambassador-designate to
the United States, and Louis
Baralt, Ambassador to Canada.
In every case the break came
over the issue of Communism.
“Premier Castro and his aides
are convinced that they are
being logical. They are making
a drastic social revolution, and
they will not let anyone or
anything stand in their way.
Not to be actively and wholly
for the revolution is to them
the equivalent of counter-
revolution.
“Since Fidel Castro took the
line that the Communists were
helpful and that unity was
necessary, it followed that for
him anti-Communism became
counter-revolution. Now that
Cuba is dependent on the
Soviet bloc and engaged in a
cold war with the United States,'
this attitude is more strongly
confirmed than ever.”
However, a correspondent
lately returned from Havana
reports in London “Economist”
that this flight of the moderates,
together with the Cuban
Government’s seizure of U.S.
property worth $750 million,
means that Castro, in spite of
his recent illness and rumors
that he might briefly retire,
“remains what he has been
from the beginning, the ‘Maxi-
mum Chief’ of the revolution.’’
His hold on the Cuban popular
imagination, the writer adds,
“is greater than it has ever
been”:
“Dr. Castro’s defects as an
administrator spring partly
from his own energy and
enthusiasm. He is unable to
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune .”
ONCE THERE WAS A LITTLE FISH ...
set a timetable or agree to
priorities. The agrarian-reform
programme, armaments, the
propaganda-drive and the pro-
vision of workers’ holiday-
resorts are all given equal
importance and must all be
carried-out at once. The result
has been a deficit of $4OO
million this year in a Budget
of only twice that amount.
“Unwilling to delegate
authority, Dr. Castro travels
restlessly from one end of Cuba
to the other, leading expedi-
tions up mountain-peaks, taking
part in athletic competitions,
inspecting Army and militia
units, farm co-operatives and
schools, and haranguing audi-
ences. He sleeps little, always
in a different place, eats
enormous meals at irregular
intervals, and smokes far too
many strong black Cuban
cigars. Although still young
(he turned 34 on August 13)
and blessed with remarkable
powers of endurance, he has
drawn too heavily on his
physical and emotional re-
serves. Unless he obeys his
physician’s orders to slow
down, he risks a serious illness.
“Should Fidel falter, his
younger brother Raul, now
Minister of the Army, would
take over. Raul, the youngest
of the barbudos and the only
one without a university-degree,
is colder and more restrained
than his brother, but even more
headlong in his anti-American-
ism. On his return from a visit
to Moscow early this month he
repeated Mr. Khrushchev’s
rocket-rattling threats against
the United States and aligned
himself with the Russian-
Chinese group of ‘nations that
are fighting for peace.’ Raul
has little of his brother’s per-
sonal magnetism and popu-
larity, but his position gives
him control of the small rebel
army and the 200,000-strong
organised militia; he has
steadily moved his own fol-
lowers into all positions of
authority.
triumvirate, Dr ° th
Guevara, ifter a r
career as student
physician,
tionary and guerrilla- 1 ?
Argentina (where he wit B
Bolivia, Peru Gnat* 1 ’
Mexico, is
orthodox but compa4 w,*
bank A f a C f*
bank. As a foretgner, n,
Guevara ,s not popular amo™
the peasants, who m 7
Government s main supporter
He is content to exercise p,„
indirectly through his i*.
on the other two.
. Dr. Guevara, who had a
minor position with the Arb®
regime in G uatemala before it
was sup-planted, has a deepfc
trust of the State Department,
He and the two Castros are so
united by common ideals—and
hatreds that no personal
struggle for power among them
seems likely.”
"Dear Comrades..."
D eturning from a visit to the
Soviet Union, John Wain,
English novelist, poet and critic,
writing a lengthy “Open Letter
to My Russian Hosts 1 ' in Lon-
don “Observer,” offers some
thoughts on Soviet publication
of Western books.
“The fact is,”\ he writes,
“that no Western book is pub-
lished among you unless it a
be made to yield the messas
that Western society is dyinj-
or, if not dying, so evil that
deserves to die”: -
“I see it all now. You pit
on a play like ‘Look Back in j
Anger,’ wh : le at the same © J
allowing your audience Ml
glimpse of the incessant to-af ;
fro of debate against which* j
see it; as a result, it stands 0 ";
as an unrelated act of P roe :
The same thing would
ously happen to my °. j
Hurry On Down. Luck) , I
I was told, has been tran h
and serialised, and Room j
Top will shortly foUw-JJ
course, of course. T
tion of Western ‘
critical, not to ssy t
and many of the
pick-up will do som ,
propaganda work a |
(The Q"iet American |‘
gift, was it not?) [i#;
“Some P e °P. le n l v isJ
Britain] think this / w jU jattf |
mistake which Y° , a fcf !
regret; give your
books that d e scrlbe ’ a fret
grudgingly, W e 1 -n slowly j
S ***•
home product. , j
“So they argue-
you know what y


Fatih in ihc
Fniure
#
it
The growth of a nation is like that of an
individual. It goes on imperceptibly, and shows up
more clearly in periods of time ; as when our
Mothers used to mark our height on a door when
we were children.
Such a time comes for Australia when the
figures for each year have been released and we
are able to measure our twelve months’ rise
in stature.
Generally it can be said that the 1959-60 year
was a good one, in which prosperity held, industry
expanded, and we were able to show a favourable
balance in trade with the world.
Taking a longer tape on our development, we
see the volume of rural exports half as high again
as it was at the outbreak of the Second World War.
This has been helped, of course, by the increase in
the size of the wool clip.
In the same twenty-one years the number of
factories and of factory employees in Australia has
more than doubled.
Creditable as this has been, there is very much
more ahead of us in both effort and opportunity.
Authorities on soils and pastures have told me,
for instance, that with the scientific knowledge now
available on these matters. New South Wales and
Victoria alone could be carrying ninety-four million
more sheep, Queensland an additional nineteen
million cattle.
So it comes to this : Our future growth in
primary production—which is the basis of our
total national wealth—depends on how well this
knowledge is applied on farms and stock runs.
It will require also the intensive use of large
tracts of well-watered land that are now idle or
under-used. Twenty million acres in good-rain-
fall areas of Queensland and northern New South
Wales, for example, are only awaiting mechanical
clearing from brigalow scrub, to allow a planting
to crops and grasses.
There are, you see, much taller markings to be
made on that family door ; and it rests with our-
selves how soon we reach up to them.
f „„a Soviet citizen, in
will be very slow to
»? 0P s>versive ideas from
Zta Show him a
& tumbling, discon-
S',! -to .he West
ft reaction will be on
I same level of sim-
*BC the Victorian matrons
eS ‘Antony and Cleo-
< ‘How unlike the home
ft our own dear Queen!’
fie you know how far
Jjgo, and it is along
Bjf |^t.
you want to use our
novels to save time and trouble
to your propaganda depart-
-t you are welcome, as far
concerned. All I would
!S t for, with no real hope of
Kiting it, is an end to the
doublethink and Newspeak in
*1 the whole subject gets
1 trapped up.
“lake our books, use them
| flout permission, deny the
; authors any payment except
*1 they can spend within
jum borders; but spare
H please, the self-congratula-
ion, the endless demand to be
fatted on the back for taking
m interest in what we write,
lopleinthe West who respond
ithis, who praise you for im-
porting books from us, are
ether Communists (i.e., tame
pots) or they do not under-
find the motives that underlie
lit interest you take.”
French Liquor Law
| A French legal problem, out-
lined editorially by the
™wYork “Herald Tribune”:
For many years, French
governments have been trying
1(1 Persuade Frenchmen to
m le ® alcohol, partly be-
Ae excessive production
wine and spirits gravely com-
m agricultura l problems,
also because, on a statisti-
j n asis at least, the French
Hum more is good for
e^ ort ,, has n °t SUC-
lis milt ei ? des " France and
Hd? made no impression,
itself (in t l Ppe , al t 0 Patriotism
3a£ the form of Tricolor
° n evei T bottle
“Now^r P Went un Feard.
i«CSff ral de Gayll e is
lta dary h dete? , - but - £Ven his
Put to a y will be
wants to ?f. test What he
to end the P articu lar, is
1° make a .
"Waxed UounSf amount of
JJich farmer, i! rom fl ?iit-crops
50 Years. Much Ve f et K° yed for
rnan ufactiLa ° f , thls liquor
Celling sti |. d b y quaint
" S S,llls - “>d the limit
the law allows is not observed
with irreproachable precision.
De Gaulle’s idea is to minimise
the blow by continuing the
existing authorisations but, as
their beneficiaries disappear,
not to grant new ones.
“In the past, efforts merely
to hold the farmers to their
legal limit have immediately
provoked threats from the
ambulant moonshiners to
‘march on Paris.’ The custom
has become the sacred right.
And it does not seem likely
that the mere withdrawal of
legality, no matter how gradual,
can change the old habit, sanc-
tioned by rural society, of
making one’s own liquor and
saving on the tax. Nor do we
see the gendarme putting his
heart into the role of revenue
man.
“On the other hand, it has
also been an old habit to under-
estimate de Gaulle.”
Bitter Ally
editorial comment on
Belgian Prime Minister
Eyskens’s suggestion that the
Congo disaster may force Bel-
gium to make serious cuts in
its Nato commitments:
London “Daily Express
“No wonder the Belgians are
angry and disillusioned. No
wonder their Prime Minister,
Mr. Gaston Eyskens, threatens
to cut his country’s contribu-
tion to Nato. For, at U.N.0.,
Britain and the United States,
fellow-members of Nato, desert
Belgium and side with her
opponents on the Congo issue.
“A mi d the bitterness in
Brussels there is sadness, too.
An older generation remembers
how, in 1914, Britain honored
a 75-year-old treaty with Bel-
gium which the Germans con-
temptuously described as ‘a
scrap of paper.’ Today, alas,
Britain sacrifices loyalty to
expediency.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “It
was bitter for the Belgian
representatives to see the
United States and Britain vot-
ing for a peremptory resolu-
tion [in the U.N.]. Yet out-
raged feelings are not basis for
a country’s policies.
“Belgium, whatever its in-
juries, has no more interest
than its allies in a disruption
of Nato. The argument that
Belgian bases in the Congo
served Nato runs into the same
kind of difficulty that British
(and French) strategic commit-
ments have run into again and
again. Kamina and Kitona
are useful, it is true, for train-
ing and for the Western
strategic lines of communica-


—London “Daily Mail!”
OPEN SEASON.
tions; and they may one day be
badly missed. But the mem-
bers of Nato are not committed
to defend all each other’s in-
terests everywhere, and they
cannot be got to do so.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “If
such a general obligation were
accepted by those countries
which have important interests
outside the Nato area the con-
sequences for the West could
be disastrous. Nothing would
more certainly alienate many
African and Asian countries
and incidentally confirm Rus-
sian propaganda than a line-up
in defence of the highly dubi-
ous course of conduct pursued
by Belgium in the Congo.”
* * *
Manchester “Guardian”: “M.
Eyskens’s reproach to Nato is
undeserved. The Atlantic Alli-
ance does not cover, and was
never meant to cover, African
colonial territories, as a glance
at the treaty will show. ‘Nato
bases’ do not exist in the
Congo, and M. Eyskens was
talking as wildly as M.
Lumumba when he mentioned
them. . Nato would have been
doomed if conceived as a pro-
tector of imperial possessions.”
The same: “It is not likely
that Belgium will in truth find
it hard to maintain its present
contribution to the common
defence. It may be that, for
different reasons, the Belgian
Government is now trying to
take a leaf out of President
de Gaulle’s book. The loss of
the Congo will make its impact
on Belgian economic and finan-
cial life. But a small country
in an exposed geographical
position has to think twice
before cutting its nose to spite
the Nato face.”
THE ART OF PAYING
A COMPLIMENT
“Compliments smooth the paths
of social intercourse, help to
dispel the recurrent dissatis-
faction most of us have with
ourselves and encourage us
toward new achievement.” So
says J. Donald Adams in a
helpful article in September
Reader’s Digest.
Other articles include: What
is a Nervous Breakdown?, Incred-
ible Survival of Demi McClure,
Nature’s Wondrous fPay With
Waste, Artists in Crime Detection,
Australia’s Amazing Konrads Kids,
The Healing Nun of Formosa,
Italy’s Tempestuous Count Mar-
zotto, Drip and Hang Up to Dry. ■
Twenty-nine absorbing
articles in September Reader’s
Digest. On sale NOW at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
Only 2/-.
Peking Indicted
/Commenting on the full report
on Chinese policy in Tibet
by the Legal Inquiry Commit-
tee of the International Com-
mission of Jurists, London
“Economist” notes that it
“makes harrowing reading”:
“The report provides the
detailed evidence on which the
committee’s indictment of geno-
cidal practices by the Chinese,
first published in June, was
based. The evidence of a
systematic Chinese design to
destroy Buddhism in Tibet
appears well founded. The eye-
witness accounts, from refugees
in India, vary from serious
assertions of mass murder:
Whilst he was in the hills he saw
lamas gathered from the monas-
teries in the district and estimated
that in the course of 15 days about
one-thousand lamas were executed
in public
to the arbitrary humiliations
inflicted by a sceptical, and
puerile, soldiery:
Scriptures were turned into
mattresses and also used for toilet-
paper. A monk . . . asked the
Chinese to desist and his arm was
cut off above the elbow. He was
told that God would give him back
his arm.
“The committee seems to
have been reasonably cautious
in its assessment of witnesses’
stories. It reports that while
a widespread belief exists
among the Tibetans that the
Chinese sterilised large num-
bers of them, clinical investiga-
tion of refugees making this
claim failed to produce proof.
“The standard Chinese ex-
planation for the forcible
break -up of the monastic
system is that the ending of
superstition has been necessary
for Tibetan social and econo-
mic advance. Now farming is
being improved and hospitals,
roads and power-stations are
being built. But the commit-
tee takes strong issue with the
claim that this is for the
Tibetans’ good. It comments:
The material progress in Tibet
is being absorbed by the Chinese,
even at the cost of the previous
living standards of ordinary
Tibetans.
“Peking and its apologists
will be the more affronted at
this finding because the investi-
gating committee’s membership
was overwhelmingly Afro-
Asian.”
Can the evidence quoted in
the report be accepted? In the
Manchester “Guardian’s”
opinion, “one can only say
that the refugees’ accounts are
more consistent than Chinese
official statements with i
facts: that a desnl? , kntHVI
continues againsuil nS ellio "
that in spife of ? dds ’ and
which Tibetans^* 1 '""'
posed to be givi
benefits derived { r L°, tte
‘liberation’ they are sti!7 eir
them oUntry t 0 * 2
arrested on sight L “
ltke Khambas were ln “
We may compare this ,
Chou En-lais explanation 0|
why some Nepalese sol*
were shot or taken
near the frontier in Junes
Mistaking them for Tibetan * I
bandns the Chinese
file killing one man, and captured I
10 (one of whom was wounded)
It was then found that they «
not Tibetan rebel bandits but wen
Nepalese.
“The committee, if it has not
sat as arbiter, has made a
powerful case for the prosecu-
tion ; it is up to the Chinese to
refute it.”
Nyasaland Agreement
■pj 1 ditorial comment on the
' Nyasaland Constitutional
agreement, reached in London
after a conference between
Nyasaland leader Dr. Hastings]
Banda and British Colonial |
Secretary Macleod:
Manchester “ Guardian
“Dr. Banda publicly announced
his terms in advance, W
offered to discuss them in -
spirit of give-and-take. ft
he has done, and Nyasaland
owes him a debt for doing«■
The Constitution falls short ot |
what he would have Iff |
But it does establish an Afn® |
majority in the Legislah''
Council, and Ministerial ra®
for Africans on what »
remain an advisory Execoa
Council. The [white] U
Federal party cannot con#
that the qualifications for
electoral-roll will let 1
hot-heads of which (no
unjustly) it claims to be afraj.
The overriding P ro . b,e^ oUt .
Nyasaland’s position in
side the Federation h
of course, been on the a?
and contention aW J
not be avoided. B u |3
stitution gives at
Nyasaland itself a g
mony which has . -
so manifestly been
London “Daily
“Some time jts fid
Nyasaland will h jwo I
direct elections, w


jj The one with
i,e fi ards of qualifica-
admit to the vote
V nOOOO Africans in a
llo jJ 0 n of nearly three-
? “which is a long way
f l universal suffrage
« Banda was demand-
: m the agreement gives
L s a clear majority in
Vslalive Council, where
Jj learning of political
1 administrative habits has
lilidone.
file this process goes on
j, a rash man would say
fr fiow long— the Governor
irmly in control,
ftftaps events in the Congo,
demonstrating the helplessness
( [ a prematurely ‘liberated’
African State, have helped to
iring about what looks like a
—London “Daily Express.”
IN DARKEST U.N.O., 1970.
“A WHITE FACE AT LAST - EVEN THOUGH IT'S ONLY YOURS, MR. MACMILLAN / KHRUSHCHEV!”
®Ale compromise. Whether
11 ,l| !l work depends not only
„ r> Banda but on disciples
Well to the Left of the master.”
* * ¥
Won “Economist”: “Un-
Munately, the conference did
2° setde important ques-
-0,1 or how soon Nyasaland
4d°Af' the polls and get
offir “ ncan Ministers into
a „ Dr. Banda, quite
befor! y ’ , Wants done
review of h£ F , Con . stitutional
Febrln l Federa hon next
s eem , y ; Mr. Macl e o d
Would u su BS es t that this
Wssihu adminis tratively
Work and ® ut ’. wd k hard
the § ood will between
. and the
n ° hone ’ ls tFere rea hy
be pushed tk 30 e^ect l° n could
by Decem-
tan ififr v ‘°' enc e has
anda vital n ron ! Nyasaland,
« to r Pr f ec ? dent has been
Central Africa. If
Mr. Kaunda, of Northern
Rhodesia, would show as much
shrewdness as Dr. Banda, and
with Sir Edgar Whitehead now
talking about getting a sub-
stantial number of African
M.P.s into the Southern
Rhodesian Parliament, one is
tempted to renew one’s hopes
for partnership, and even for
Federation.”
* , *
faction at the results of the
Nyasaiand agreement should
not blind- the Government to
the dangers it still faces in the
Central African Federation.
While the settlement has won
valuable time in postponing
an immediate showdown in
the Federation, the concession
of an African majority in the
Nyasaiand Legislature makes
i t much less likely that the
Federation can survive in its
present form.”
Dragnet Digest
Mexican journalist Orlando
Martinez, in London “Time
and Tide”: “What happens in
Latin America will largely
depend on the attitude of
America and other major
Powers, not least Great Britain.
They will have to rethink their
policies towards the countries
which are rapidly becoming
through sheer numbers the
human centre of gravity of the
Western world. Latin Ameri-
cans are no longer ready to be
told what sort of government
they may have: they do not
want their economies to be just
an appendage to the stronger
economies of industrial nations.
If they go on feeling frustrated
in these respects the history of
Latin America will continue
to be scarred by violence and
revolution, for there will always
be Latin Americans who are
ready to say with Don Quixote
‘For liberty, as for honor, one
may and one should hazard
life.’ ”
* * *
London “New Statesman”:
“The agony of the Congo has
provided the U.N. with a first-
rate opportunity to provide
something which no colonial
Power, no matter how high-
minded, has succeeded in
creating: a genuinely dis-
interested paternalism.
“The underdeveloped areas
are universally and desperately
in need of help from the
advanced countries, not only
in money and machines but,
even more important, in doc-
tors, engineers, scientists and
teachers. Until now they have
been forced to turn either to the
West —whose technicians were
tainted with the stigma of
colonialism —or to Russia
whose help can only be ob-
tained at an unknown political
price.
“Now the U.N. offers a third
and acceptable choice. The
colored races who look with
suspicion on a British, Ameri-
can or Russian expert are will-
ing to accept a Swede or an
Irishman with U.N. credentials.
For the U.N., they are begin-
ning to understand, is not
interested in bases or raw
materials. It actually practises
what all the colonial Powers,
old and new, have always
preached. It is the missionary
without a dogma.”
* * *
Washington correspondent of
London “Economist”: “If the
Americans can accept in Cuba
the degree of Socialism they
accept in India the quarrel be-
tween the two countries may
yet just possibly be catmed.
“The Cubans would un-
doubtedly have to pay more
than lip-service to the principle
of compensation for expro-
priated property. (Even this is
a rather generous description,
of their most recent offer of 50-
year 2 per cent, bonds, with
payment contingent on the
United States buying more
sugar from Cuba than it has
in the past and continuing to
pay more than the world price
for it.) But the Cubans now
have $2OO million in their
exchange-reserves, which might
provide some kind of token first
payment,
“In return the next President
would have to bestow the bless-
mg of the United States upon
a Socialist Cuba (provided it
stopped short of being a bluntly
Communist Cuba with a Soviet
military base) and withdraw the
Mr ' E,senhower has
“If the next President is a
Democrat, and particularly if
Mr. Adlai Stevenson is his
Secretary of State, Senator
Kennedy may come into office
with enough reserves of Latin
American goodwill to make
turna bout credible. Earlier
‘ hls year Bra t ?' l °®= red !°
arrange a meeting between its
quarrelling „ e j g s h bor s . no
doubt Senator Kennedy is now
pondering on that offer.”


taken-up by J. W. Tyler, who
sold it in 1863 to Alec Mc-
Culloch for 18s. an acre.
Andrew Tennant, grandfather
of the present holder, bought
the property from McCulloch’s
executors in 1900.
Lying in a dip among the
undulating hills —green when
we saw them, but bare as a
board and brown last year,
Tennant told us —with its fine
gumtrees and carefully laid-out
garden, the homestead (built in
1863 of local stone with a
slate roof) is one of the show-
places of South Australia. The
property is one of the State’s
choice sheep-raising properties,
with an annual rainfall of 18
inches and 1000 acres sovi'n
each year to mixed crops—
wheat, oats and barley—for
stock-feed. More than 8000
Collinsville-type Merinos are
run in addition to 130 Hereford
cattle. Eight years ago an
A.I.S. stud was formed at Prin-
cess Royal and exhibited for
the first time at Adelaide last
year. This year, though, there
will be no entries from the stud.
We were entertained to
morning-tea in the homestead
and were joined there by Keith
Shillabeer, chairman'' of the
R. A. and H. S., and by Rex
Warnes, vice-chairman and a
neighbor of the Tennants,
having bought their former
property, TheX3ap, five miles
away.
Yalumba Vineyards
Leaving Princess Royal, we
had a long drive south to
Yalumba, at Angaston, in the
Barossa Valley.
Our road took us through
the hare-coursing country and
we passed one small township
which took our minds back to
the early settlement of South
Australia by We 11 ing t o n’s
veterans. The name of the
township was Waterloo, the
pub was called the Wellington
Hotel and down the street was
Bluchers Garage. Looking
east, the country in the neigh-
borhood seemed exactly like
the field of Waterloo must have
been before commercialism
changed its topography—a roll-
ing plain, like that which lay
before the British Line ; on the
right flank, a farm-house that
might w'ell have been the
chateau d’Hougomont; and in
the distance what could have
been the wooded slopes of
Ligny. You could picture some
of Wellington’s men coming
upon this place which must
have recalled to them that fatal
field, giving it the name of
Waterloo and calling their pub
by the name of the Iron Duke.
With two, at least, of our
coachload, this similarity of
terrain did not pass unnoticed.
We went through Kapunda
(leaving Wakefield somewhere
about this point), entered the
Barossa Valley at Greenock,
passed Nuriootpa (where we
stayed on last year’s tour) and
finally arrived at the Yalumba
cellars, outside Angaston,
where we were entertained to
lunch by S. Smith and Son,
Ltd. We were greeted by
Wyndham Hill-Smith, manag-
ing - director and chairman
of the family company.
He is a fourth-generation
descendant of Samuel Smith,
who planted the vineyard in
1849 and founded the firm
some years later. Wyndham
Hill-Smith, well known in
horseracing circles, is also a
talented painter and we had the
opportunity of admiring two
of his pictures which were
hanging in the board-room.
We also sampled some of his
excellent Press Pipe Galway
Preparing the traditional gliih (glee-wine) at a practice
of the Tanunda Liedertafel choir when members of the
pre-Show tour for journalists were guests. Watching
and helping are (from left) the chairman of the
Tanunda District Council (F. A. Garrett), choir compere
W. Clarkson, Liedertafel president and gliih expert
(W. Schulz), conductor Fritz Homburg and C. R. Kelly,
M.H.R. The wine, a special recipe of claret, lemon and
cinnamon, is warmed during the Liedertafel practice.
port, laid down in 1952 when
the journalists met there, and
opened seven years later.
p .
roultry
After lunch, we left Yalumba
and visited G. E. Tscharke’s 56-
acre property at Hillside,
Greenock, a few miles from
th e Seppeltsfield vineyards,
Here he houses one of the
Valley’s largest and most pro-
gressive poultry-farms.
Tscharke entered the poultry-
industry 15 years ago with 50
birds and now has about 6000,
which lay over 60 30-dozen
cases of eggs a week. He’s a
breeder as well as an egg-
producer, and keeps six distinct
breed-types on his farm: pure-
bred White Leghorns, Austra-
lorps and Rhode Island Reds,
in addition to crosses between
these breeds. He believes that
there is a swing away from
White Leghorns to the heavier
breeds for egg-production,
because, although total egg-
production of the heavier
breeds is slightly lower, their
winter output is greater. Since
egg-prices are higher in winter,
the heavier breeds are therefore
more profitable, he says. He
has entered birds in the Para-
field egg-laying competitions
for the last three years and been
in the first three prizewinners
each time. He has an incubat-
ing capacity of 40,000 eggs and
constantly sends day-old and
month-old chicks of the vari-
ous breeds all over S.A. and to
Victoria. He’s also just starting
on broilers.
Only five of his 56 acres are
devoted to poultry. On the rest
0 f his land he runs dairy-cattle,
Four of the five acres of his
poultry-farm are sown to pas-
ture and cereal crops, which
are usec j as free-range for
young pullets up to the point
of lay. They are turned-out to
free-range each day and closed-
up at night. Layers are kept in
sheds on the deep-litter system,
311 Ounce Of grain k o '
every bird each day to to
age them to scratch and
the litter. nandl °ose n
Tscharke, who seem. ,
am to play an mmZ h
m South Australiarir
industry, told Us that??;
opinion the Barossa Va l
becoming one of the b i
poultry districts in the g
He is showing a few Austo
lorps and White Leghorns i
Adelaide Royal. S at
Tanunda Liedertafel
We T e to speEd
Wednesday night at Tamnj,
which was originally settled by
250 Lutherans who emigrated
from Germany in 1838. Escap.
ing from religious intolerance
in their homeland, they were
given financial assistance by
George Fife Angas, which
allowed them to travel to Aus-
tralia aboard the Prince George
and set themselves up in the
Barossa Valley.
The majority of he
Lutherans found their way to
Tanunda, where they Mt
houses, churches and schools,
Today Tanunda, 43 miles from
Adelaide and with a popula-
tion of 2300, is a thriving
town which depends mainly on
the winemaking industry.
Music is the chief recreation
of Tanunda, and, apart from
the town-band, which is one
of the best in the Common-
wealth, there is the famous
Tanunda Liedertafel, formed
in 1861 and with a current
membership of 55. This male-
voice choir its members
include Mr. Teusner, Speaiffl
of the S.A. House of Assembly,
two winery-employees, tw
winemakers, a butcher, two
bakers, a doctor, a dentist an
many farmers—meets once a
week for practice and giw
recitals in Adelaide and coun y
districts, as well as recording
for the A.B.C. .
The Liedertafcl’s repertoire
consists mainly of
folksongs in the original
man, and its member
because they enjoy doi g
Fritz Homburg has been c
ducting the choir s> nce . ,
Each November the W
tafel holds a kaffee-abend'
the large Ta ” unda there is
Society hall, where
seating accommoda w
1000 and P atro " s ( C e brin.*
all over the state
their own refreshmen ■ (0
ceeds of this concei
Ch C'can lherefore.,-3
our delight when we . efl os
the civic reception ? B of
by F. A. Garrett ch
the Tanunda -^ istri T ; e
and found the


between
Ourselves
' Have y ,ou Ever Tried
This?
JeV 3n educate a
b y^g n St t she° thin i
Native, wnvll tor '
articles feaS*" sl ” B
week in Ufed ™ ch
The Australian
OMAN'S Mirror
P,,te NIN \ p ENCE ONLY
eac h Week.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON VTt!
O’SULLTV'Ajy . /
i PTV LTD CjT
fir 1 (
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
IHEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
, A in sing US a welcome,
sang three lieder,
*\%fHomburg ex-
,i, 1 . sUfoiebari, then
t'i “hem i" * eir ,radl '
*fi w of gluh-wem- a
K 3, u'd of claret, lemon
spiced with cinna-
?> is heated during
jjelertafel practice. .
"Loris other members
Smity sang, played
> !l £ „ ts or amused us with
£s monologue—this is
ted neighborhood and
Lone seems to be able to
[ something to the pro-
nime-then the Liedertafel
DL again and again We
it have too much of it.
I«like turning back his-
wto the days when men
t just for the joy of living,
& their Creator for the
1 [s\\ : of their surroundings.
Coiriedales at Birdwood
1 Hat morning we left
jmh and, passing through
ffjfcnstown, found ourselves
re-entering the Adelaide Hills.
First stop was at Jerilderie,
Idwood, V. H. Rathjen’s
'here property, which has
ain the family for more
a 100 years.
One of the emigrants from
biany, the first Rathjen was
; bootmaker by trade and
«hip land at Birdwood in
It early 1850’s, hoping to
?ow wheat. It’s cold, 28-inch
■fall country, and wheat-
pwing gave place to grazing,
the Rathjen holding
Mnally took-in smaller
properties around which had
proved uneconomic proposi-
tions. '
lerilderie now carries one
01 W.’s most progressive
tomedale studs, running three
£e P to the acre, and between
vJ" d 100 Shorthorn cattle.
• Rathjen, great-grandson
of the original settler, showed
us round the property and
told us how his father ran
Merinos until 1927, mating
them with British-breed rams
to produce fat lambs. Look-
ing for something to withstand
the cold and wet, and at the
same time produce both wool
A. H. Jolley (Shell p.-r.-o.), C. L. Morisset (Shell
Chemical) and Graham Ashby with Bundaleer
Headline, a Poll Shorthorn bull, on T. E. Ashby’s
property, Bundaleer.
and meat, he tried Corriedales,
which proved admirable, and
ever since Jerilderie has run
this breed.
A stud-flock was founded
in 1947 with ewes bought from
the Guthrie stud, at Geelong,
and from H. L. Lush, of
Inman Valley. Since 1950
only high-class rams from
Guthrie, or of Guthrie blood
from the stud of R. Wetten-
hall, have been introduced.
New to the show-ring, Jeril-
derie sheep have already made
their name at Adelaide Royal
and country shows. This
year’s team (all from Wetten-
hall) consists of four rams and
four ewes.
We had morning-tea in the
Rathjens’ lovely homestead
and learned that there’s a
fourth generation of Rathjens
coming-up to carry on the
family tradition. One son is
a third - year agricultural
student at Adelaide Univer-
sity and two other boys are in
their leaving-year at Birdwood
High.
Lenswood and Erinka
Our next visit was to the
Lenswood Co-operative Cool
Store —largest in S.A., with a
bushel - case capacity of
160,000 —where apples and
pears are kept in storage before
being sent throughout the
Commonwealth or overseas to
the U.K., Europe, Africa and
Asia. The society was incor-
porated in 1933 and at present
holds assets worth £172,107.
The store is 50 per cent,
mechanised,
We attended the opening
ceremony of a new extension
to the store, which was per-
formed by S.A. Premier Sir
Thomas Playford. Also
present at the gathering were
Robert Gosse and Ron Seds-
man (director-secretary of the
R.A. and H.S.), D. A. H.
Clark, State manager of Shell,
and Geoffrey O’Halloran
Giles, M.L.C., of Lanac,
Mount Compass .(whom we
visited on last year’s tour).
Afterwards we were enter-
tained to lunch in the cool-
store and then we left for our
final visit to T. E. Downer’s
property, Erinka, near Wood-
side.
This 640 - acre property,
taken-over “in a fairly natural
state” in 1936, now carries 70
dairy-cattle, 75 beef-cattle and
150 sheep. All fodder is pro-
duced on the property. The
annual rainfall here is about
30 inches.
Downer told us that he crops
50 acres each year, believing
that the practice of regularly
breaking-up an old pasture
makes management easier and
helps fodder-conservation. All
pastures are cropped for two
years before being resown to
appropriate grasses. Sub.-clover
occurs naturally, he said.
Summer green-feed is provided
by 25 acres of irrigated lucerne
which is subdivided into six
small paddocks for easy graz-
ing-control.
Although a registered Here-
ford stud-breeder, Downer runs
his Hereford herd as a commer-
cial proposition to turn-out
prime young beef for the Ade-
laide market. He has entered
nine beasts in the fat-stock
classes of the 1960 Adelaide
Royal.
After careful consideration
of agricultural economics and
land-use, he told us, he decided
to buy a dairy-herd, believing
that in a high-rainfall district
dairying gives the maximum
return. So when the Murray
Glen Friesian stud was dis-
persed in 1954, he took the
opportunity of getting hold of
some of S.A.’s best dairy-
cattle, which are now being
run at Erinka at the rate of a
cow to 2\ acres. No outside
females have been introduced
to the Hereford or Friesian
studs since their foundation.
An ex-jackeroo on Melton
Station, Downer has several
interesting ideas on property-
management. For instance,
improvements at Erinka have
been spread evenly over the
property, not concentrated at
one point. Each 200-acre sec-
tion has a house and improve-
ments which would allow it to
be sold as a going concern if
this ever became necessary.
We had afternoon-tea in the
Downers’ homestead and then
boarded the coach for the
return to Adelaide.


THITHER FEKKIW'S MIMD
Shortage of Vets
I read with interest the
report on the shortage of
veterinary scientists in this
country and of the unavailing
efforts to lure them here from
England and the Continent.
Australia has only two
universities that train vets —
Sydney and Melbourne —and
of Sydney’s graduates, 40 per
cent, are from New Zealand
and return there when they
graduate. In a country such
as this, with its tremendous
stock-numbers, it seems absurd
to be injecting such a thin
stream of trained men into the
industries and enterprises that
need them.
Surely the place for thorough
courses in veterinary science
would be at rural universities.
These would have space to run
animals, perform field-tests and
provide thorough practical
training. Capital - cities can
offer only poor substitutes for
such field-work —as anyone
who has seen the miserable
array of bony animals at
Sydney University will testify.
Likewise, the present little
jaunts to Hawkesbury College
provide an interest in, rather
than a grasp of, particular prac-
tical aspects.
I believe that a system could
be adopted based on the ex-
ternal-studies principle now in
existence at various universities.
Students using this method
could then do much of their
theory at home possibly with
the help of local veterinarians,
and attend universities for
courses in practical application.
It would also seem possible
to arrange passes in two groups
—those who had passed in
theory and laboratory work,
and a senior group who had
qualified in the entire course.
Even if the former group pro-
gressed no further, they would
still command suitable employ-
ment in many industries and
relieve the strain on the more
highly qualified men. Vee
(N.S.W.).
Labor’s Financial Policy
The Leader and Deputy-
Leader of the Federal Opposi-
tion will have to change the out-
look they have lately been ex-
pressing on financial matters.
The old cry of increased com-
pany-taxation will not win elec-
tions in present circumstances.
The Opposition apparently
cannot see that thousands of
people—and the numbers are
increasing, daily—are now in-
vesting in public companies
through unit-trusts, investment-
trusts or straight purchase of
shares. These people, many of
them erstwhile good Labor
supporters, won’t appreciate the
idea of further taxation of
companies, the effect of which
would be reduced dividends
and loss of capital-value of
their investments.
Mr. Whitlam once mentioned
increased productivity but
quickly got away from the sub-
ject. There, however, is the
“Oh, dear! I suppose We'll have to offer them a cup
of tea."
key to the situation, and a
slogan that would win Labor
numerous votes—perhaps even
an election.—C.B.M. (N.S.W.).
Union Rules
The Full High Court of Aus-
tralia recently agreed unani-
mously that the Common-
wealth Industrial Court had the
power to disallow union rules ;
and while union spokesmen will
no doubt class this as a defeat
for unionism the verdict must
have been welcomed by
thousands of thinking unionists.
Only a few months ago some
Western Australian workers had
to go to court to challenge some
of their union’s rules. The
verdict didn’t go altogether
their way, but they got enough
of it to show that in some
respects union rules can be un-
just and in conflict with a
citizen’s normal rights.
This probably applies to a
great number of union rules,
some of which seem designed
not to serve the union or its
members but to put power in
the hands of a' ruling junta.
Not every junta uses rules for
that purpose, or wishes to;
but the power is there, and it’s
used, or threatened to be used,
often enough to justify a com-
mission to inquire into union
rules in general and their
conflict with members’ civil
liberties.
It may be objected that rules
which appear to be unjust and
coercive can be challenged;
our Constitution guarantees the
individual’s rights. True —but
often at a price beyond the
average worker’s pocket.
Theoretically the worker can
fight his case, without much
costs, within his union by
having the rules amended ; but
it doesn’t always work out that
way. If his fellow-unionists
aren’t interested in his fight
they won’t attend a meeting to
vote for him. He must prove
his case first, and as things
stand there’s only one place to
do that.
The rule in the latest test-
case made a candidate in a
union election liable to dis-
qualification if during an elec-
tion he issued printed-matter
other than in accordance with
union rules. That may sound
innocuous. You could argue
that the rules in question have
been carefully considered by
members and need not impose
undue restrictions ; or that the
restrictions would cut both
ways and would apply to any
candidate. You’d be wrong
on both counts.
Almost certainly the general
run of members won’t have
more than glanced at the
rules —they’ll have been framed
by the controlling junta.
Frequently , hey
deliberately ambi® »»
they usually include ’ 3,11
gives the goUm 'bod? N
to make its own in,
I’ve heard manaT” "' l
mittees give ; n l ment %
Which were
arrogantly opposed
Obvious meaning 0 f Z 7
?” d whi* madeamoX"
the English language. ,
interpretations would,', 5
> as ed five minutes in coin-
but the average worker s ,
afford to take his
k o „ow’i, and
And the worker shoulM
have to go to court. Th e *
were accepted and registered t:
the Industrial Registrar. M
sumably he scrutinised th
first. But he won’t interpret >
them. A unionist who applies 1
to the registrar for an inter-1
pretation may be told to cm. ’
suit a solicitor and apply to tie
court. He wouldn’t get o uttf
that much under spj,
counting time off from#,
and if he won he’d find tee!
were other rules under M
he could be disciplined to
challenging the union’s ate;
ority. Those other rate
mightn’t be valid, either ;h
he'd spend a fortune proij
that, too.
If Industrial Registrars!
the authority to register uni®
rules and thus give them!
stamp of respectability 4
should also have the power!
interpret those rules and I
refuse to register any with
trace of ambiguity. Eifc
that or the arbitration coil
should be approachable «|
application by any union i®
her, and the costs of the Iff
ing other than on friv#
applications should be
by the Government. |
The Full High Court's nM
has opened the way w .
Federal Government ton
arbitration courts with P o ' ( ‘;
which will deprive arroH
union-bosses of much °
power they’ve asso
There’ll be many "“jj
waiting to see something
—Pieter Nuyts (W-AJ-
Migrants and J
I agree with
Tory” (B. 17/8/60)-'
lion Minister Do-rf;
elusion that large
European migrants a '
weaken Arisfraha is f 3r
the U.K. and the C V*
too pessimistic. p ur opea' !
Most post-" j
migrants to Aust


Notice
t THE s L p ® e court of new
Jm,.J° UTH W ALES.
I TO WlLLlS'non?'i SES Jurisdiction.
l8 | te + ° f Dangar Road
S'wVmi" in ll lat(TI at( T of 222 West
"iles.-XAKP °f New South
f i has fiie d fat - JOAN
3195 of iqcq^ l * loll t° r Divorce
S® adultery lug „ on the ground of
h'O.VN’E BISSafpS woman known as
i y°>i niav If you wish to
f Divo rce g a PP ea rance
5$ s ‘reet n Supreme Court
“fid obtain n by 31st October
?(fe tcl >arg ? r l C «P y °f the Petition
/DAMSON ? E S I o SA / 1 IS HER
Hornsby,
Pub Hc Notice
JOI’LD
ji? $ P 7
SfHateoffiKr EZ
?°ad, St,
Person
knowing
*elbo Utne p 29 Alma Road
S*: S£ es ot "-
Sydney!
Why put yourself under the griller?
S
-ft
r
wmm
: :
« =
'
fr
: : :
: Wmm **-?!
t 1
: J >1 IL<
Keep heat above ceiling line
with CANE-ITE BATTS
Summer heat beats down on
your roof builds up in
the space between the roof
and the ceiling, and then
heats the whole house—and
it often stays heated long
after the sun has gone down.
That’s why you need
Cane-ite Ceiling Batts.
Quickly and easily laid
between the ceiling joists,
Cane-ite Batts make a bar-
rier to heat, keep it from
penetrating your home.
They keep the rooms below
up to 15 0 cooler at a
cost of roughly £3 a room.
You don’t need even to
hammer the proverbial nail
to install Cane-ite Batts
a morning is plenty of time
to pop up through the man-
hole and insulate a house.
Why not get this comfort
for yourself? You can get
Cane-ite Ceiling Batts from
all hardware stores and
building suppliers.
Showrooms
Manufactured by the Building Materials Division
of The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.
at Sydney, Newcastle, Wagga, Wollongong, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
_CSR7
[ [ts h in their minds —indeed,
i never forget—the “Voice
From London,” which for
millions was the only shining
starofhope for freedom during
the Mack days of war, oppres-
sion and concentration-camps.
In Hitler-occupied Europe
people risked their lives, but
never gave-up listening to that
mice of hope for a better
fire,
lire encouragement to sur-
we, the promise of liberation,
ai finally the liberation itself
dialed powerful bonds be-
ta Great Britain and mil-
ions on the Continent. And
fee bonds were undoubtedly
Wnd the decision of many
migrants who opted for Aus-
blia, a British country.
Affection and admiration for
British people and the
Crown are not likely to
"oaken; on the contrary, the
attachment becomes stronger.
Jbs is favorably influenced by
we younger generation, par-
t'cu'arfy the children, who, in
c °ols and universities, are
treated in the same way as
other Australian children and
who are brought-up in a pro-
British spirit with a deep affec-
tion for the Queen. —H.G.
(N.S.W.).
Govett’s Leap Scheme
One question I haven’t so
far heard asked in connection
with the proposal to build a
big tourist-hotel and other
amenities at Govett’s Leap, on
the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.),
is where the money for it is
to come from.
The cost has been set down
in round figures at £3 million.
If private enterprise will put up
that amount in such a highly
problematical venture, then
Federal Treasurer Holt’s pes-
simism about the amount of
loan-money the Government
will be able to raise this finan-
cial year is quite unfounded. I
should say that on the same
principle every loan he cares
to float will be well and truly
oversubscribed.
It appears to be not generally
known that the proposal to
turn Govett’s Leap into a
modern tourist-resort was first
put to the Blue Mountains City
Council some months ago, and
although a majority of the
aldermen would readily support
any scheme to bring more
tourists to the area, they had
so little faith in the money-
making potentialities of this
one that they rejected it. Not
unnaturally they later decided
that if private enterprise cared
to risk its capital to bring the
scheme to fruition, council
would help as far as possible.
I have been visiting the Blue
Mountains regularly for the
past 48 years ; I have lived on
the lower Mountains for the
past 10 years and have watched
the change from tourist-resort
to popular residential area —
particularly in the lower portion
between Springwood and Glen-
brook. I’m confident that an-
other 10 years will see the
rapidly growing population of
this area increase a hundreo-
fold, and it won t require any
tourist attractions to bring
this about.
The improved train-service
has induced many more people
to live on the Mountains ; but,
conversely, the steep increase in
fares has persuaded the
*
,
1 here may be a score of good
reasons why Govett s Leap
should not have a huge hotel
planted on its very brink ; but
I think the prospect of this
happening is so slight that those
reasons need not be elaborated
at present.
Investors have so many
opportunities of getting sub-
stantial returns on their money
today that I’m sure, in the final
analysis, they will subject the
hotel proposal to the closest
possible scrutiny before putting
up even a small amount of
capital.
The worst thi tha , cou|d
happen t 0 the area WOLI | d be
for the scheme t 0 be started
and then abandoned before
completion. -M. F. Dixon
(N.S.W.).
Savings Banks
, ,
S “K
dressed in crinolines, handed
out sprays of flowers (beg
pardon “boronia corsages”)
to every woman who set foot
inside the door, whether to
bank or not. Naturally, as it
was a case of something for
nothing, good business was
done—at any rate by the girls.
The scene was the State Savings
Bank’s new branch in Collins
Street.
Isn’t this opening of banks
conducting savings business


being a bit overdone? What it
costs to staff and run a bank in
Collins Street is anybody’s
guess, but it most certainly
amounts to more than peanuts.
Melbourne is chockablock
with banks. Most trading-
banks conduct a savings-bank
as well as their ordinary busi-
ness ; there are the Common-
wealth Bank’s agencies at post-
offices ; Victoria’s State Savings
Bank itself has 1000 branches
and agencies; and still they
come, all seemingly anxious to
do business.
Wouldn’t a little more in-
terest and a bit less overhead
be more to the point? The
business of conducting
branches almost entirely for
savings-accounts is, to my way
of thinking, very expensive. It’s
a side of banking that could
well be left to private and Com-
monwealth trading-banks at
their very numerous branches.
Admittedly it is an important
sideline, but in itself it’s not
sufficient to warrant the main-
tenance of costly branches
staffed by men drawing liberal
salaries for the simple sort of
work involved —salaries com-
parable to those paid to the
staffs of trading - banks who
need to be conversant with all
aspects of banking.
This particularly applies at
the managerial level. It’s no
exaggeration to say that a
savings-bank manager needn’t
know an overdraft from a
bunch of turnips. I seem to
remember that most of Eng-
land’s savings-bank business is
conducted at post - offices. —
Local Bill (Vic.).
Kings and Culture
Though Norman Lindsay’s
praise of the first three Stuart
Kings of England (James I,
Charles I and Charles II) as
patrons of the arts, letters and
sciences was justified (B.
10/8/’6O), he was unfair to
some other English sovereigns
in saying that the Stuarts, were
“the only monarchs who sat
on the English throne who
made civilisation itself the
major objective of their lives.”
That was as true of the great
and noble Alfred the Great.
He became King of a country
fast slipping into barbarism
through the devastation
“Prepare to ditch!”
wrought over a number of
years by pagan invaders. Him-
self no mean scholar, he saved
England and revived learning
and the arts.
At least two medieval Eng-
lish Kings, Henry 111 and
Richard 11, were also notable
for fostering all the arts that
make a country civilised. Mar-
tin Briggs, in his book on great
patrons of culture, Men of
Taste, chose Henry 111 as “the
representative man of taste of
the early period of Gothic
art.” Dr. Montague James
described him, in his book on
Westminster Abbey, as “the
greatest builder and the greatest
patron of the arts who ever
occupied the throne of Eng-
land.” Professor Lethaby said
of him: “Hie i
was for building an? H
worEsofart-I H
jewels, relics, plate S H
Henry rebuilt \y“s
Abbey and took a?
Part in the enterprise’?"
r n ut , h h o e r s hi ” th '^i
his books GoA'c&gtj"
Henry Yevele thatfij
reign was an outstanding "'
in English letters, archil!
and all other branches oil
arts, major and minor
. R °y al Patronage played J
important part in thisdj
ment. ‘‘Almost all the 2|
and architects of the first J
most of the poets and wiil
certainly the musicians, g|,
smiths, broiderers, cooks J
others were in direct dert
ence on the King," J
Harvey.
Richard was the principii
patron of Henry Y enlt,
greatest English arc®; of
the Middle Ages; andloH
Gaunt, Richard’s undt,w l
also a notable patron o{ art,
architecture and letters,
Of sovereigns later that I
Stuarts, George IV had ad
praiseworthy record in' culm
matters. He was a law
patron of architects; he bod
the masterpieces of the M
school of painting that 1
now owned by Queen Eliza® j
II; and his father’s libra™
70,000 volumes formed*
nucleus of the present spleni
British Museum Library
Kanimbla (N.S.W.).
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 606
17 — The old man to go to the
gallows in part of Malaya. (6)
18 — P. and O. voyagers do the rest
when in port in Europe. (6)
20 —Sane training for some Ameri-
cans. (12)
22 — Cheese made the wrong
way. (4)
23 — Good sort of 7-across paves
it. (4, 2,4)
25 —They show how 23-across gets
shares of limited supplies. (14)
Across
I—These religious people land a poisoner on Nova
Scotia. (14)
7 Objectives in some canvas covering of Idriess. (10)
8 — Giving credit to none of the ear. (4)
11—Fabrics centred by a girl and a European. (12)
14 — One creed is such a pleasant direction. (6)
15— Much more than a gill—nothing stationery. (6)
Down
1 — A double idol which is
impolite. (8, 5)
2 Seat chewed as grub. (4)
3 One changed in a considerable
time. (3)
4 Fricasseed brain dish's initial
premier of France. (6)
5 Not quite the premier athlete
out of bed. (6, 2)
6 No Monsieur Hulot bowling
Jolson with regard to a manner
of writing. (10)
9 —Church Union stage celebrity
imparts mottled colouring to
fruit. (7, 6)
10 —Teddy depressed a beaver to
possess broad new alterations
and exert vertical pressure. (4, 4)
12 —Marilyn chin gives too much for
such stringing up. (8)
13—South Carolina to imitate i
cricketer scoundrel. (10)
16 —Hadrian's favourite opposed t*
commonsense. (8)
19 —Obstruct a noted Australia l
stage designer. (6)
21 —He’s brave —a woman’s I<®
makes him so. (4)
24—Grain. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. #


[?] “Romantic Obsession”
J.F. Archibald's French Foible
By J. D. CORBETT
. ithough J. F. Archibald’s life
J from the time he and John Haynes
' /\ founded The Bulletin is fairly
1 well known there had been a lack
l precise knowledge of his antecedents
Jitit youthful days until L. J.
Illale's excellent article, ‘Archibald of
KMare,” was featured in The Bulletin
earlier this year.
1 J. F.’s early days in Warrnam-
y (Vic.) I can add a couple of items
0 [ information. Some years ago at the
“Ward” office I was shown the
comp.’s room in which he had worked,
y was told by Mr. C. J. Hallowell, the
manager, that a notice on the wall or
to a board had been preserved for
pay years. It had been written or
pled by Archie and read: “All hope
abandon, ye who enter here.” One
cnjectures that it was the youth’s part-
ii{shot before leaving the paper to go
li Melbourne.
In 1943 a par. I had written about
, Archibald in Melbourne “Argus” pro-
fad a letter from Mr. J. S. Hughes,
Mired district-inspector of the P.M.G.’s
Department. Mr. Hughes, referring to
k time when he was a young telegra-
phist at Warrnambool Post Office, wrote:
Your par. re J. F. Archibald revived
memories of the long, long ago, as J.F.
™ I struck-up a firm friendship from
'he first time we met, about 1874. He
would frequently drop in after I had
vni!™ * ast °f the press-reports from
Melbourne, about midnight, for me to read
dsnd P k ° r tW ° t 0 P w tth his
He was indeed a most likeable chap,
iJ. s you say, shy and sensitive. His
drv vt j was an auctioneer with
siirJ . , P ersuas i ve powers, was con-
Westpm tlle best auctioneer in the
® ern Strict for selling stock.
ArchiLu’ the most intriguing aspects of
onbvM s P e F sona l history was touched
» J Ml Blake when he said that J. F„
is |te death, was variously referred to
Francis Francois > Ja mes F. and John
mentioned 1161- Christian-names is
Mitchell i iKr a ] etter on fi le in the
fr ° m Luc y Archibald,
d s s er > m which she says:
riere have" name d Jules Francois,
fyut J. p A C fu't. l ? any misstatements
We h e (airlin bac T s fam ily, mostly
* a ? French «i! n a )o^e that his mother
® J iden-names rv, v ! as an Englishwoman,
l has been sai H h f ,ott ? Erne Madden.
Memorial FouStain °, often that the War
J b>s French mot h Was u glven in memory
C
Z 5 bte “ ate-
itnc® that when r! S oVerw helming evi-
** discarded hk u Was . a youn *=’ mar >
" his baptismal names of
John Feltham for Jules Francois and
retained the French names till his death.
There was no joke about it.
Why did he do this? In Macleod of
THE BULLETIN, by His Wife, pub-
lished in 1931, Mrs. Macleod (who as
A. Conor-O’Brien wrote the Woman’s
Letter from 1901 to 1911) says that
George Black, M.L.C. for N.S.W., had
solved the mystery when he was a sub-
editor on The Bulletin.
Presumably recounting what Archi-
bald had told him, Black said that when
J. F. was a young man in Melbourne he
had fallen in love with a vaudeville
actress named Carrie Godfrey ; that he
had thrown up his job and joined her
company as super, and handyman ; and
that during his brief theatrical experi-
ence, which ended at Charters Towers
(Q.), he took the names Jules Francois
and dropped the Archibald.
But Black didn’t solve the mystery;
he only put forward a theory. Accord-
ing to Mrs. Macleod he hazarded a
guess that Carrie Godfrey may have been
a French Jewess and that Archibald
wanted to impress her.
At any rate, it is clear that he had
what Mrs. Macleod calls “a romantic
obsession that he himself had a French
and Jewish strain.” So far as the
French aspect is concerned, that roman-
tic obsession seems to have colored his
whole life. Time and again the
researcher finds evidence of it.
For a start, take the word “Bulletin.”
It must have been chosen as the name
for the new paper by Archie on his own
or in consultation with Haynes. It is
significant that the word comes to us
straight from the French, derived in turn
from the Italian.
When he wanted a tag to introduce
his memoirs, to which nation did he
turn? To France. The line he used
o Continued on pqge 55)
was Montaigne’s: “I have gathered me
a garland of flowers ; mine but the
string which binds them together.”
In the “Lone Hand” (June, 1907) he
wrote: “When you are utterly ennuye
... buy a tigress. My ideal tigress would
be an evening paper ... I should try to
make it the most charming sheet in
all the world—a ‘Froggy’ paper, utterly
unlike anything under the British flag,
with a crackle in every line, and a
column of smart paragraphs written in
French. Then the people who don’t
read French will miss some of the most
savory of the scandals.”
Many other examples could be quoted
of his obvious desire to associate himself
with France and things French. Some
references to his will should be enough
to clinch the argument.
A copy of part of the will is in the
Mitchell Library. It is headed: “Partial
Abstract of Will of ‘Archibald, John
Feltham, fate of Sydney, Journalist,’
from Official Copy in the Probate
Office, Sydney, No. 96907.”
The will begins: “This is the last
will and testament of me Jules Francois
Archibald. . .” How he came to use
those names in an important legal docu-
ment I don’t know ; but there they are.
As is well known, provision in his
will resulted in the erection of the
Fountain in Hyde Park. His instruc-
tions were that “a beautiful bronze
symbolic open-air memorial” should be
provided “commemorative of Australia
and France having fought side by side
for the liberties of the world.” Not to
commemorate the wartime association of
Australia with Britain or with any of the
other Allies, it will be noted —but with
France.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS”
GRAZE OR CUT?
By “AGRICOLA”
A few years ago irrigation
was considered out of
the question unless unlimited
water was available. More-
over, irrigation was regarded as
a convenient substitute for
rain.
Today many farmers are
finding that it’s possible to
irrigate pastures and lucerne
with only a modest flow of
permanent water. Instead of
looking upon rain as a hind-
rance to their irrigation-pro-
grammes they are using irriga-
tion to help when rainfall is
insufficient, and are thus able
to get by with a supply pre-
viously thought insufficient.
Any irrigation-plant is expen-
sive, even if the water comes
from a surface-supply. There
will be little change out of
£lOOO even on a small farm,
and this cost will be increased
if a bore and deep-well pump
are necessary.
Annual cash costs can be
heavy, too, especially in a year
of below-average rainfall. Fuel,
Radiation is being used
by scientists at the
University of New
South Wales in an
effort to strengthen
wool fibres, without
harming existing quali-
ties. A spokesman for
the University said,
“They had discovered
that irradiation jnakes
it possible to “ graft
‘polymers,’ a type of
plastic or resin, onto
the wool fibre, thus
strengthening it con-
siderably.” But as yet,
there were many prob-
lems and it will be
quite some time before
the process would be
a commercial possi-
bility.
There was no ddubt about
the possibility of Elas-
trator being a success,
because thousands of
graziers have proved
that it is the best
method available for
castrating and tailing.
ElasTrator, as many
graziers will tell you, is
the safest, surest and
most humane way of
castrating and tailing.
oil and grease for pumping,
repairs to engine and plant,
and depreciation all mount-up
by the end of the year.
To make irrigation pay there
must be no waste. This applies
particularly on dairyfarms
where irrigated areas are used
to feed the herd.
The land to be irrigated is
usually determined by its proxi-
mity to water —nearly always
the most fertile soil on the
farm; generally an alluvial
flat. This is another reason
why there must be no waste.
There are three ways of using
a sward of irrigated pasture or
lucerne: the herd can be
allowed to graze unhindered
over the whole area ; an elec-
tric-fence can confine the cows
to a small strip at a time ; or
the sward can be cut with a
forage-harvester and fed-out in
another paddock.
The first method is unsuitable
because of waste ; cows trample
too much into the ground as
they wander about; they graze
selectively, eating-out the le-
gumes and leaving the grasses.
All this soon results in a poor,
stalky pasture with a limited
life.
Also, it is impossible to water
pasture or lucerne while cows
are in the paddock ; the whole
lot must be fed-off before
watering can begin. The only
other way is to remove the
cows from the paddock while
part is watered ; but they will
naturally “flog” the succulent
regrowth on this area as soon
as they get back into the pad-
dock again.
The electric-fence method is
sound provided the strips are
not too large and a back-fence
is used to prevent cows from
wandering over the grazed
strips.
If the strips are too big
much of the green-material
will be tramped into the ground
or soiled, and without a back-
fence the cows will wander
back over the areas that have
been fed-off and eat the young
regrowth, with the result that
the next grazing will be light
and thin. Strip-grazing per-
mits watering behind the herd,
so that there is no shortage of
feed when the last strip is
finished.
More bulk to the acre will be
obtained by using a forage-
harvester and feeding-out the
green-material in another pad-
dock. Irrigation-c 0s t s will
be reduced. It has k, 15
that one watering i n b ?" |, t
is saved when the if
rather than grazed 4
The main disadvantaee 1
cutting and feeding^ 8 **
droppings are lost l 0 tll
fe°r"im Tn'ZirZ:
artificiai fertiUser
It has also been shown tiai
elaborate feeding-stalls are?
necessary to feed-out the m
material. Some feed it o fj
paddocks covered with natural
pasture and so prevent in
material being soiled whenitis
tossed out. Others prefer to
feed it out in portable trough
which can be fixed to afa
and moved about to preveu
soiling of the ground aros
them.
That has the advantage ol
concentrating the animals i a
certain area, and droppings can
then be collected ani pa|
over the irrigated paddock. An-
other advantage is that til
amount fed can be control
When other crops or natii
pastures are scarce the an*
of greenstuff fed can kll
creased. In times of pleat)
can be cut and stored as slag
baled and stored as hap
sold as a cash-crop.
Forage-harvesting adds if
bility to the farm-progra®
but the machines are eft
sive, and a small farm f
herd of 10 or 12 cowscoi
hardly support one of 4#
Nor does the method stf
rough, hilly
of course, there is notn#
this that can be irn*
Further, it’s too expen#
crops of low food-value ffl
under dry conditions. 1
need a heavy sward n9f
legumes before its ec( ® ,
to use a forage-harvester.
Lot-feeding
farms with herds o
or above-average
especially one of * J
ing the market with m
show a profit.
Best results
when the \¥
more than one p P $ i
irrigation P i a
ance against drouj
of fodder m
or hay is alsC ' J a for#
larger farms, _
harvester is ld bo vegr#
either under °
It is also ideal for c
stubble from P


every test .
a
7
1
ft/
\
Whether you are looking for
efficiency, simplicity, economy or
dependability, the Tilley Storm
Lantern represents incomparable
value for money. It gives you 12
hours of 300 candle power light
on only 1 \ pints of kerosene.
It gives years of reliable, trouble-
free service under all conditions—it’s wind and weather proof I
£6.17.6 (freight extra outside metropolitan area)
REGD.
you can trust your Tilley
IT’S 100% BRITISH MADE
Obtainable from all good hardware stores throughout Australia. In ease of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
hpcome soggy a^ter
»*"T®** tr f h 15
iin o ground.
H lined farmmg-pro-
c \fi necessary if the
fff't and fed-out-cows
lt and go off their
,be fS early in the morn-
the next latC
Aer of feeds depends
1 K other roughage is
* *L One feed a day is
litre is native pas-
, fit can be grazed, or
1 ig into which the cows can
jPln.wry dry period
J,/rf a day may be neces-
%vided facilities are avail-
* and cut material is fed-
Ldpseto the irrigated pad-
uit does not take long to
; feed-out to a herd of 30 or 40
cow-say, about an hour-and-
! Mutter from the time the
! is started until it is
| switched-off again.
Ik must, of course, be
[Leone available to do this
jd at the same time every
.day. A herd not fed at the
iiatiiiomed time is likely to
i hrek into the pastures and
tare harm than if turned-in
inWionally. One man can do
liijob on his own, but once
• top is cut and into the
Ilwr the easiest way is for
Ktian to drive the tractor
ie another forks the
Herial into the trough.
Lot-feeding becoming
reasingly popular here, and
jtadard practice on many
American and Conti-
pal farms—has many advan-
but it only pays if the
™ is large enough to stand
t«e capital outlay and when
a rich, heavy-yielding crop of
W-material is handled,
rngated pastures and lucerne
ideal for this method of
twing-out.
jhlso has an added blessing
J ucerne—bloating is
f st done a way with when
.ucerne is cut and fed-out.
Cei "end for Broilers
of*Vr ,r *\ e Pr °P r ‘ etor of
irn b u n - e ’ S lar B est
% , P ro Phesises that
1(11 ch alC 0 e n be S f C s ick en-me a t
fee on the l eef f ° r pnde °f
llis 'Queen lnnm er u' table ' As
Jction is ev n „ nd ® broiler pro-
-50,000 th?ve ted t 0 be worth
A chfcl?- At
feily a t s are hatched
Bri sbane
3y to increase m- S are under
lfle cockerels
are sent to broiler-developers in
all parts of the State, while
pullets are air - freighted
throughout the Commonwealth
and New Guinea.
A special type of bird is bred
for fast, thrifty growth and for
quality of its meat. Fed on a
special broiler-mash, the birds
weigh about 3|lb. at 12 weeks
old, on only 101 b. of food.
Most of this chicken-meat is
now marketed in Sydney, be-
cause of the high cost of other
meat there ; within 12 months
the output will be large enough
to supply the Brisbane market
at a price cheaper than beef.
Nitrogen-deficiency
“Emel”: As in 1958, wheat-
crops in Victoria’s northern
Wimmera and southern Mallee
have been showing considerable
yellowing this year. Attributed
in 1958 to the many “wogs”
present in crops, and earlier
this year to some new disease,
this is now recognised as due to
nitrogen-deficiency.
Especially since the ground
cooled-down, heavy rains have
washed much of the available
nitrogen too deep for young
plants’ roots to reach it.
As might be expected, the
yellowing has been less pro-
nounced on land where medics
or clovers, grown in rotation,
have built-up nitrogen-supplies.
And, in most cases, the yellow-
ing will decrease as the growing
roots reach down to the deeper-
level nitrogen.
Strangles
“Bron k”: Administered
before infection, vaccination
is of value in preventing
strangles. It has little chance
of curing infection, which
generally runs its course, but
it may lessen the severity of
complications, like pneumonia,
which often follow.
Since the disease may be
brought in by an infected
animal and will quickly spread
through a mob, horses bought
at saleyards or from other
holdings should always be
isolated and treated.
A horse that has contracted
the disease becomes listless,
develops a temperature, often
has a cough, and finds it hard
to swallow. The eye-
membranes become red;
there’s a discharge from the
nostrils; and the jaw-glands
and ear-glands swell and some-
times burst.
Infected animals should be
put into a sheltered paddock
well away from the rest, and
stalls and all contact-material
should be disinfected.
Strangles has a serious effect
on the heart and lungs, so
constant attention is needed
over a long period while the
animal is recovering. While
convalescing, horses should
not be put under stress, such
as in droving or mustering.
If they are put back to work
before recovery is complete,
complications left by the
disease may cause death.
Home market for Eggs
“Pieter Nuyts”: In his an-
nual report the chairman of
the W.A. Egg Marketing Board
emphasises how poultrymen
depend almost completely on
the home - market. Pointing
out that worth-while overseas
markets no longer exist, he
warns that any appreciable in-
crease in production would be
a calamity. Ironically, he
admits that “reasonable” re-
turns over the last 12 months
are due to a serious outbreak
of leucosis early in the season.
Much of this has been obvi-
ous for years; yet nothing very
constructive has been done
about it. There’s been a certain
amount of advertising, some of
it good, and no doubt all of it
effective to some extent. But
you don’t sell eggs to people
by telling them they’re good
for them. They know that
already. They also know
pretty well how eggs compare
in value with other foods.
What’s more, most people like
eggs. But they won’t buy them
unless they want to, and to
create that position you’ve got
to make eggs attractive financi-
ally as well as in appearance.
The Egg Board has reduced
prices over the past few months,
while eggs have been plentiful;
and probably reduced prices
have promoted sales —but I
doubt if they’ve introduced
many new buyers. The people
who normally buy eggs are
buying more; but the back-
yarders who bought fowls seven


ATTENTION
PASTORALISTS
Now Available
16 gge. High Tensile Barbed
Wire. lowa Pattern. In 441 b.
coils equal to 440yds.
Advantages
High Tensile strength 5 p.c.
higher than ordinary standard
12i gge.
Double galvanised quality
gives a longer life.
Real cash saving in extra
distance to be obtained weight
for weight to standard 12} gge.
Price £4 per coil delivered to
your nearest railhead in all
States.
Or £3/15/- per coil ex-store
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Fremantle and
Hobart.
Orders to
J. W. CRANSTON & Co. Ltd.
Stow Building,
12 Flinders St.,
Adelaide. Phone 81605.
or eight months ago because
eggs were priced out of their
budgets are now getting a
surfeit of eggs. They may even
be eating more than they really
care to, and that’s going to
make them poor customers
when their hens stop laying
and prices go up again. Many
will be putting some down in
preservatives (which, by the
way, are quite efficient and easy
to use).
That’s the market the Egg
Board should be aiming at, and
it’s vulnerable. More than half
the backyarders are reluctant
egg-producers. They’re in the
game because bought eggs are
too dear and not attractive in
appearance. They like eggs
and value them. If they could
be persuaded to sell their few
chooks they’d make good cus-
tomers. And they’d sell like a
shot—or many of them would
—if eggs were a reasonable
price all the year and compared
in appearance and quality with
those their own fowls produce.
The average price now prob-
ably can’t be considered too
high. But the housewife
budgets from week to week, not
on averages; and when the
price goes beyond her purse
she can’t be expected to recall
the time when eggs were cheap,
except with animosity at the
increase. When she’s reckon-
ing the cost of poultry-feed she
bases her comparison on the
high price, not the average.
What’s wanted is a year-
round stable price within the
normal housewife’s budget.
She mustn’t be left in constant
doubt whether she can afford
eggs of not —and don’t imagine
that she can be wooed with
price-drops! When that hap-
pens she reasons that somehow
or other she’s being got at.
The Egg Board must con-
centrate on the market the Aus-
tralian housewife could provide
—she’s their only worth-while
buyer. They won’t get any-
where until they realise the
limits of her budget and try to
see her point of view.
Brand-marks on Wool
“R.R.D.”: W. R. Bladwell,
who’s managing-director of
Wool Export (Goulburn), Ltd.,
and who lately got back from
a business-trip to Britain,
America and the Continent
(visiting several countries
behind the Iron Curtain), holds
strong views about branding.
“For many years,” he says,
“the removal of brands in
sorting has been a nightmare
to mills in all countries. At
first, legislation which made
branding optional seemed a
move in the right direction ;
however, many growers find
it necessary and desirable still
to brand their sheep. When
the C.5.1.R.0.’s L.B.E. [Liquid
Branding Emulsion] is used,
branding still causes concern,
because the fluid does not
always scour out. In fact,
sometimes it penetrates a large
area of adjacent fleece.”
One big operator, he added,
even went so far as to state
that he was prepared to pay
a reasonable premium for
wools guaranteed by the
grower to be brand-free.
Growers who do not brand
their sheep would therefore do
well to request their brokers
to make special mention in the
sale-catalogue that their wools
are brand-free.
He also suggested that, since
Australian wool is more care-
fully classed than wools in
most other wool - producing
countries, tar - brands —where
used —should never be put on
where the best fleece-wool is
grown. An approach is being
made to the Woolclassers’
Association of N.S.W., he said,
asking that classers should
pay particular attention to this.
Bladwell lays great stress on
this subject—more important!
to a mill than is recognised
by many growers who use
branding - fluid extravagantly
for their own convenience.
Lucerne
“Essay”: The difference be-
tween good and indifferent
lucerne-stands lies in attention
to the three basic require-
ments of this fodder-crop:
renovation, adequate dressings
of super., and good grazing
and mowing.
Renovation simply means,
cultivation of the stand after
the second autumn of its life.
The cultivation aerates the
plant and enables it to grow
better nodules, but
purpose is to get rid ff ®
In addition, cultivatm
depth of 3m. or I to
surface soil and
absorption of moi slll ,l"
can then build up J
reserve. Best time to
is when the soil is th ®»
wet, which may k?,
winter. e
A spring-tined imph.,
with a share carrying half*
points is particularly SII J
Two cultivations areS
and if the drag-harrows m
used at the same time tks
help in breaking-up sm j
clods. When stands becom
sparse through age, desk
the remaining plants by ft
mg while the ground is fc
Before re-sowing an.old a ra
two 01 three cereal crops coiiii
be taken and should pi
above-average yields.
Regular
are vital for maximum pro-
duction. For dry-grass lucerne
one bag of super, an acre each
year is generally used, especi
ally where the stand is youn;
and dense. Apply it «he
winter cultivation is done,
While lucerne grows all 4
year round, it does best inti
warmer months, pro#
sufficient moisture is a
able. However, it does#
a rest-period when it isn’t bei
kept too short for too los
time. Optimum results wi
probably come from grai
a stand for not more than*
third of its life each ft
and allowing it a rest diii
spring when other fodders at
available for grazing.
The practice of sowing oat ,
into a lucerne-stand is
as far as grazing goes, totjl
a doubtful proposition it j
paddock is to be cut anon
for hay. J
Wimmera-ryegrass t®l
much better with lucerne KJ
for grazing and f° r J
because it cures in
same time as lucerne, Seed ;
rates for Wimmera-rjf ,
from 41b. to 61b. an acre. I
Generally speaking,
stand should be mow J
a year if it has bee ,
to stock during the 1
October is a good m
mowing. _
Crosscut
“R RD ” ' Id
of
Graziers’ Federall
the Australian W°
Council, the title» J
of the council wih J
tralian p
Graziers’ Coun i gr ains *
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(18/8/’60)
Queensland will probably have only light rains, gener-
ally below normal, during September, apart from moderate
rain on a section of the coast and central highlands. Poor
rainfall is to be expected in October, but there should be
good rains in a large part of the State in November, though
the central coast, Peninsula, north-west and far-west areas
will probably have only poor rainfall.
Rain in N.S.W. is likely to be light and mainly below
normal in September, apart from moderate rain on portion
tof the southern tablelands area, the South-west Slopes and
the Riverina. Coast and tablelands areas should receive
moderate rains during October, though rain may be light
elsewhere. Good general rains are indicated for November,
with the best falls in the northern areas.
Victoria should have reasonably good general rains in
September, with the best in the north-east and on the west
coast, and light to moderate in East Gippsland. Light to
moderate rains should occur in October and November, but
rain is likely to be poor in December.
Good rains are indicated for the agricultural areas and
west coast of South Australia in September, but light in the
interior. There should be light to moderate patchy rains
in the agricultural areas in October and November.
There should be good rains in the south-west agri-
cultural areas and Gascoyne divisions of Western Australia
in September, with light to moderate rains in the Eucla and
south-east areas; poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


\ L loud enough to stop
if . momentarily I
aJ'J ihe noise of the
It didn’t stop Ernie.
1 ■ & in a flash what
14 fwohle 8 was, pulled the
/idle hard over
{1 f Lped pushing. But
! *lf stolidly on, and,
P his feeble effort,
£s# the impetus of the
K truck, was just suffi-
i Jtokeep it moving,
i fdpless, 1 held my breath
watched it happen. Ine
it-|dn between the thermo.-box
r,; ; sthe comer of the shunt
aj ftf rapidly. I heard a
1 -lie a shaping-machine
i# ijtu! a light cut. Then the
sill was clear and the
is itm,. box miraculously
> stulis, with a line scored
» a the paintwork of the
A ini as neat as if it were
:ij ta by a scriber.
™ Ifelt sick with relief. A
10 Sto the left and the box
, lii have gone over, wreck-
j flie thermostat, the heater,
1 i quite likely the ampere-
* kmeter itself. And if that
Jhi happened, the Super,
j i have known that using
Mlrack was my idea.
Jlilooked at old Ernie. He
|fc(i back at me with the
jpm appeal of an old
in disgrace. I swal-
JM my curses and motioned
jim to carry on. There was
r point in bawling Ernie
ft; it’d be like dressing-down
1 gatepost if you fouled it.
(Anyhow, a lick of paint and
p boi would be as good as
iff I made up my mind
® tear a strip off Moore when
I® e l°b was finished.
If* 1 afternoon the news
i ; went round that there was
! . e a bit of fun at knock-
! J IITI£ ' When I went up to
L 1 Was eas y to see from
pens f aces t h at th ere was
f®* devilment afoot
K Ur t’ 1 old
;hands anHT Was washin 8 his
head sudd V aw him turn his
!i| e s ifv ny and squint up
I? 1 ,? 8 roof the coil-
'H» there 0 ° Wed Ws look and
I Xj. f° r ty-gallon drum.
;^ide'/e 0Q ; Wa s hi n g
i bw-down ■ c . §ave me the
drum hom Was takin S
il would me m and ’ knowin 8
let il out of ht lSappear if he
»Ml o„ L hls s >f h l, he had
Nd watch it r °°f w here he
V ch 11 until the whistle
ta,k-
rtled back to dry
his hands. At the same instant
Johnny Hall, looking like an
old-time stage villain, whipped
out from behind a column,
grabbed the drum, and disap-
peared with it.
It was worth a fiver to see
old Ernie’s face when he turned
for another look. He gaped
at the empty roof like a child
at a stage illusion; then he
dropped the towel and ran to
the foot of the ladder.
As soon as the wall hid him
from Ernie’s sight, Johnny
whipped out, and replaced the
drum. I started to laugh at
the thought of Ernie’s face
when he saw the drum again.
Then my laugh froze.
In his haste to get back to
his hiding - place, Johnny
hadn’t set the drum square on
the roof. It rocked, seemed
to pause, then toppled over
and rolled straight for the top
of the ladder.
A terrific roar went up from
everybody there. Ernie hesi-
tated, and turned to look
down at us. That saved his
life. The drum rolled swiftly
over the edge of the roof,
missed his head by inches, then
hit the floor and bounced into
the wall with a double crash
of thunder.
The shock was too much
for Ernie. He let go the
ladder, swayed, clutched wildly
at it again, and fell silently
onto the concrete floor. He
tried to get up; his face
turned dead, white, and he sank
back, clutching his arm.
A fter a shocked second or
two, Scotty Anderson,
who’d had training in first-aid,
ran forward and knelt beside
him. He felt-about a bit, then
rose with a serious face, j
“Collarbone’s gone.”
Everybody looked glum.
The noise of the drum would
have been drowned by the
machines, but we couldn’t hide
old Ernie’s broken collarbone.
As no one else made a
move, I helped Ernie up and
took him to the Super.’s
office. When the Super, asked
how it happened, Ernie flashed
a look at me and said that
he’d slipped off the ladder
while he was getting down a
drum he had bought. Before
the Super, had time to start
asking awkward questions, I
slipped in with an offer to run
‘I’m getting interference, are you?”
Ernie home in my car, and to
get a doctor for him.
Both the Super, and Ernie
thanked me so warmly that
as I saw Ernie to the car I
couldn’t help feeling a bit of
a heel.
When he told me to stop,
I looked at his house in sur-
prise. I’d expected a shanty,
but saw trim red brick and a
close-cut lawn bordered with
shrubs and flowers. It didn’t
look at all like Ernie.
His wife was in the kitchen
preparing tea. She stared in
concern at the makeshift sling.
She was a good-looking
woman, as trim as the house.
As Ernie was explaining what
had happened, a boy of about
13 came in. Grandson, I
thought, but he ran forward,
crying, “What’s the matter,
Dad?”
I was in a whirl. Ernie
had always been old Ernie, a
nonentity, useless, a butt.
Now he was a husband and
a father.
I stared at him. He seemed
changed. Perhaps the change
was in me. Then I realised,
with a queer sense of shame,
what it was: I was seeing him
for the first time as a man.
And who was to carry out
the work? “A French artist,”
of course. The sculptor turned
out to be Franpois (an aptly-
chosen Christian-name) Sicard,
of Paris.
J. F. Archibald’s lifelong
“romantic obsession” explains,
among other things, his careful
avoidance in his memoirs of
any reference to his parents’
antecedents, for the admission
that his father was Dublin-
born and his mother English
would clearly not have helped
his wish to be thought of
French extraction.
But because he was a great
man we can as easily overlook
his foible as we overlook, say,
the idiosyncrasies of Dr. John-
son or the poet Shelley. Yes,
Archibald was great. He dis-
covered and gathered around
him a brilliant band of writers
whose influence on Australian
literature is felt to this day ;
he was one of the greatest
editors in the English-speaking
world ; and, more importantly
and because of these things, he,
more than any other man,
helped this country to find its
soul and spirit.


Divorce Notice*
A DIVORCE Petition has been filed
against the undermentioned GEORGE
EDWARD JUPP (otherwise BROWNE)
late of 10 Stanley Close* Tilgate,
Crawley, Sussex who may apply to the
Divorce Registry Somerset House London
W.C.2 for a copy of the Petition If
within one month he has not communi-
cated with the Registry the Court may
hear the case in his absence.—(Sgd.)
B. LONG, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ALAN RAYMOND BARLOW.
TAKE NOTICE that GLORIA JOYCE
BARLOW has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4787 of 1951 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Syd-
ney by 31st October 1960 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from J. BRUCE FERGUSON, Solicitor,
of 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY ALMOND late of 36
Penkivil Street Bondi.—TAKE NOTICE
that CORDELIA MABEL ALMOND has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2749
of 1959 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by sth October
1960 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from N. G. CASSIM,
Solicitor, of 41 Oxford Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Rare books, prints, engravings,
views, etc., relating to early Aus-
tralian history (before 1880). —4.
For a collection of coins: one
sovereign and one half-sovereign.
—5.
Information Sought
What is the meaning of the term
apocope ?
Apocope is a term used in etymo-
logy to denote the suppression of
unstressed (not necessarily un-
pronounced) final syllables of
words. For instance, Old English
helpe has become help; chapman
—a merchant or barterer —has
become chap; and hackney has
produced hack. Some words
formed in this way are accepted
words of the language; others
remain on the level of slang:
advertisement has been shortened
through advert to ad; microphone
to mike; debutante to deb; yet
none of these shortenings is
thought of as a “correct”, word.
Related to apocope is aphesis,
where an initial unstressed syllable
becomes suppressed. Examples of
aphesis are fence and fender from
defence and defender; squire from
esquire; and sample from example.
* * * *
What was the original racing
club that was the precursor of the
V.R.C. ?
There were three horse-racing
clubs in Victoria before the V.R.C.
came into existence in 1864. The
first of these was a body known
as the Melbourne Race Club, which
held its first meeting on the 6th
and 7th of March, 1838, on a site
at Batman’s Hill. In 1840 this
club held the first meeting at the
Saltwater course —later to be known
as Flemington. English Jockey
Club rules were observed and silks
were worn by the jockeys for the
first time in Victoria. In December
of the same year a new club called
the Port Phillip was formed. The
Batman Hill site was abandoned
in favor of the Flemington site,
and the popularity of the club’s
meetings quickly grew, crowds as
big as 5000 attending meetings by
1844. In about 1850 another club
—the Jockey Club —was formed,
but neither this nor the Port
Phillip developed into financial
successes and both gave way to
the V.R.C. The most notable
feature of the Jockey Club was
that it inaugurated the Melbourne
Cup, first run in 1861.
* * * *
Details of the founding and
history of New Norcia ?
New Norcja, a settlement about
80 miles north-east of Perth, was
founded by two Benedictine monks,
Dom Salvado and Dom Serra, in
1846. They arrived, with two
“You're playing with nuclear fire!”
other Benedictines and an Irish
Catechist, with the aim of estab-
lishing a mission to aborigines,
Salvado and Serra were left by
themselves after the first year, the
Catechist having been accidentally
killed and the others having left
because of ill-health. In 1947 the
foundation-stone of a monastery
was laid and the place was named
New Norcia after the birthplace
ot St. Benedict. Round the
monastery grew-up an aboriginal
colony, where the natives were
trained in fanning and handcrafts
In 1859 the mission was separated
from the diocese of Perth, and in
1867 was made an abbey nullius
dioecesis, Salvado being abbot and
bishop.
Succeeding Dorn Salvado was
Dom Torres, in 1900, and later
abbots have been Anselm Catalan,
who retired in 1951, and the Rt.
Rev. D. Gregory Gomez. The
monastery has 32 Benedictine
monks subject to it and preserves
the full traditional monastic
observances. The work of the
monks extends to 17 churches in
nine parishes within the abbey’s
jurisdiction. Boarding- and day-
schools have been established and
the original aim of caring for the
aborigines is still prominent, a
varying population of them being
housed and educated at two
schools. In 1908 the monks also
undertook the care of the distant
Drysdale River Mission, which now
has a native population of
about 200,
* • * •
Was Fort Denison constructed
as a convict prison or as a defence
fortification ? When was it named
Fort Denison ?
The island known as Pinchgut
was used for punishing recalcitrant
convicts shortly after the First
Fleet arrived, the convicts being
sent there on a bread-and-water
ration. It was used for this pur-
pose for some fifty years before
the idea of any fortification arose.
Following an unheralded visit to
the harbor by several American
warships in 1839, it was recom-
mended that a b'attery be placed
on the island for a harbor defence,
and in 1841 a tall pinnacle of rock
on the island was removed in order
to make room for a fort. How-
ever, this project was temporarily
abandoned and was not revived
until after the Crimean War.
Then several thousand tons of
rock were taken to the island,
and a tower with walls 12 feet
thick at the base and nine feet
thick at the top was built to house
a number of guns. This was com-
pleted in 1857 and named Fort
Denison after the then Governor.
This was used in some way as a
“prison,” but has never served
any military purpose other than
storage.
’
Brief Answers
R.F.F.: Romney Brent (formerly
Romulo Larralde) was born at
Saltillo, Mexico, in 1902. He had
some amateur experience before his
professional debut —as an acrobat
in « He who Gets Slappe(r (New
York’s Garrick Theatre)-in 1922.
Xhe next he toured with ** Xhe
DeyiPs Disciple ” a nd from 1925
j 932 appeared in various New
York and touring shows, including
“Garrick Gaieties,” “Katy Did,”
“The Inspector General” and
“The Merchant of Venice.” In
1932 he made his first London
appearance in Coward’s “Words
and Music” at the Adelphi. Though
the part of Paul in “Conversation
Piece” may have Been written for
him, it was Coward himself who
took the part at the opening per-
formance in 1934 and made it
famous. He has appeared in films
since 1936, apart from his many
stage performances, and is the
author of “The Mad Hopes” and
“Nymph Errant.” He has done
some directing, notably in “One
Eye Closed” in 1954 in New York.
His address is: c/n a * i
Association, 45 Actors’ Hi
New York CiA 4 ? 1 1
are few authors wiir Tl
type of work, ft t 0 do
some assistance uJI %
lian Fellowship of Am? 6 Aus
supply them with fft s 11 :
your material.. n{ e ,
versity of Sydney Thel,
1850, when an Act? o
and endow the n n - ncor M
Sydney” was nasseH " VMsit l
a senate of 16^1(45SS*
The TctuarinlugSon o '
da^^February^i?
university was given’the
grant degrees & c £ ■
arts, law and medic fe ® n
medical faculty dates fi, I
but until the medical £
founded in 1883 there S T
vision only f or remterti P
trained elsewhere.., ,p,pp® ?
Lutine Bell is so named a’% g ;
ship from whose wreck !
recovered The bell is £
Lloyds office in London and*
rung to mark the loss of a sli
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under
taken re contributions
submitted; and no MS. will
returned unless stamps won |
'pony. MSS. should be ciimst
to the Editor; they will kcm j
sidered for publication on il
understanding that they my 1 1
shortened or altered as the Mil |
thinks necessary.
S.McD.: Promising if youi
young, but just a •
F.W.: The horse ballad M
make a good paragraph
C.E.B. (Norway) and K.H. (Spi
Noted from afar.... A.S.MaiJ
A small poem for so large a
B.K.: You sent™
Nature G.W.:_ Close. Yosjl
to master technique rather »j
experiment with it...d-M. : JJI
the local paper... .R.R.D.: M|
than most on its theme 1
The verse is like other verse. J
in prose you could say s®*jl
interesting about rxngbarkt S--*
E.R.: Pretty enough; J h
won’t get anywhere till
stops “kissing” the,
scenery Don: 0 n h’mc!*
Cheerful doggerel- .m
Thanks; but we shoo faiofi 1
W.E.N.: A little
“Budburst!” is a very (;
opening-word for a P J
re sarr^jS
paying^
L.N.. 111 . p , i t limpsffl
the window— A.k- ~ „ i
all five feet....S.VJ,J
Dorothy U.A.. P^ ce |;|
ing for home— • “IM
for under four-' j 'similar A
about a hundred sim
which I c°uld send y d
say, 99 V, crT:
Totally illegible.•••‘ 5K, l j nc | e m
on a Chinese P a P er " sfl jjgM
Your nephew » to [ d
J B : We’ll try one
THE SOUTHERN TH[?]
[The Melbourne "S^'lnsd
Lord Mayor V*
as saying l> e . jj 0B ie.] ,
trumps at »
Are they flocking °p e ter’s
they throng \ aDS , a® ■
All agog for B«J^ aire ?
Trumpet voiun
To 'Sd-pi.S l


THE HOLLIDAYS
“ I wish I knew the Indian Words for 'I hope you know what you're doing.' ”
New Recordings
I Fifths”
Itaneously released are
the most popular sym-
extant. One is Beet-
Symphony No. 5,
comes from R.C.A.
H) with Fritz Reiner
% the Chicago Sym-
Orchestra in a reading
w lucid symmetry to
tm, develops the four-
Mnocking-at-the-door
*>ut the suffusion of
d conductors tend
fWii; makes the second
Uf? ent , a ca ntilena of
serenity; gives the
, ug touch to the belly-
7of the basses in the
u ’fh and^ §oes on t 0 P ull
L‘ he , thunder-and-light-
LJ fd § lVe throbbing
the heroic
% tha t winds-up the
k^ aik °w k y Symphony
C°? ‘ 1 Philips Gold
& 12 > is played
Beb ° UW orches ~
CV nder Paui
of an rhls one is a
Cj ,rdy different
ill exn^ it l - Bree - Whereas
¥it a P tiJS P eet hoven
J with the § h P y - dlsci P lined
jostled aside at odd times by
sprightly rhythms but never
failing to come to light with
notable melodies always
Tchaikowsky’s strength. Sec-
tions of this symphony have
been doubly-damned by the
purists, whether because the
third movement Waltz is no
waltz at all, or because the last
section under the hammering
of the brasses degenerates into
noise and bombast, which ad-
mittedly at times it does. For
all that, no music-lover would
exclude it from his library, and
this performance is certainly
worth a place.
❖ *** ♦>
Album for Violin
When some eight years ago
Michael Rabin toured Austra-
lia he showed wonderful
promise as a violinist, but
speculation was keen as to
whether he might, as so many
other boy-prodigies have done,
burn himself out and become
just another fiddler. He
didn’t; in fact, he has become
at 24 one of the best of the
world’s young virtuosi, and in
The Magic Bow, a Capitol disk
(P 8510), he offers a heap of evi-
dence in strong proof. And for
those who like their violinistic
pabulum in small courses, he
has put together eight pieces
which are in the repertoire of
every great bow-wielder. There
are the “Meditation” from
“Thais”; Sarasate’s “Gypsy
Airs” ; Kreisler’s arrangement
of Paganini’s “Moto Perpetuo”;
Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Flight of
the Bumble Bee”; Saint Saens’s
“Introduction and Rondo Cap-
riccioso”; Dinicu’s “H ora
Staccato”; and a brace of
Kreisler’s popular shorts:
“Caprice Viennois” and “The
Old Refrain.” In the lyrical
passages of all of them Rabin
extracts a glowing tone of great
purity and vitality.
A A A
V V V
Tucker-time
On Coronet’s Richard Tacker
Sings Puccini (KLC 2722) the
American robust-tenor selects
10 of the juiciest arias from
seven Puccini operas: “Turan-
dot” “Boheme,” “Butterfly,”
“Tosca,” “Manon Lescaut,”
“Girl of the Golden West” and
“Gianni Schicchi.” The writing
of all 10 —with the exception
of the witty one from “Gianni
Schicchi” —is studded with the
passions of either love or
hatred, ingredients that Tucker,
with his big, rich voice pro-
duced in the bel canto tradition,
finds to his liking. Except in
“Your Tiny Hand” from
“Boheme” and “The Stars
Were Brightly Shining” from
“Tosca,” in which he reaches
the near-sob stage of emotion,
the tenor keeps passion from
spilling-over into exaggeration.
But every note is charged with
virility, and there can be no
cavilling at his voice-quality.
❖ ♦♦♦
Ray Connif
Ray Connif and his orchestra
are best known for their feet-
teasing dance-music, of which
they have recorded several
albums. Connif has recently
been touring the United States
giving what are styled “Con-
certs in Rhythm” at which he
presents improvisations on clas-
sical and near-classical themes,
adapting them to his orchestra’s
dancing beat. Not food for
musical purists, but Connif
fans take all he offers and pass
up their plates for more. Hence
Coronet’s Ray Connif Concert
in Rhythm, Vol. 2 (KLP 838),
which includes themes from
Tchaikowsky (“Pathetique” and
“Sugar Plum Fairy”), Liszt,
Greig, Puccini (“One Fine
Day”), Chopin (“Nocturne in
E-Flat,”) Saint-Saens, Franz
Lehar and Noel Coward. The
orchestra is assisted by the Ray
Connif Singers and pianist
Bernie Leighton.
❖ ❖ *
Bongo-Bongo!
Dance - music of a more
sophisticated brand comes on
Warner Bros.’ Latin Rhythms
in Hi-Fi (W 1298). It’s dis-
pensed by the Bobby Havana
Boys, who include five percus-
sion experts giving the beat
on bongos, timbales and just
about,every kind of instrument
that can be made to percuss,
while the rest of the team go
to town with guitar, piano,
electric organ and flutes. The
dozen dances include two
boleros, a rhumba (“Mala-
guena”) and a guaracha
(“Marianne”), but the band
specialises in cha-chas —there
are eight on this disk, including
“Mary Lou,” “Mona Lisa,”
“Isle of Capri,” and “Colonel
Bogey-River Kwai March.”


Womeu’s Letters
SYDNEY
Spring is here, both actually and offi-
cially. As a rule the weather and the
calendar are not of one mind on the
matter, but this year they seem to have
come to terms and produced sunshine
and calm airs to welcome-in the spring.
The fashion industry, which jumps the
gun by about four weeks, is keeping pace
with more and merrier flowered-hats
(what happens to these later in the
season? One never seems to see them
again), while the daffodils, iris, stock,
pLum-blossom and poppies are making
the gardens of Sydney especially beauti-
ful this year.
☆ ☆ ☆
The opening of Parliament always adds
a nice touch of dignified pageantry to the
life of Sydney, and at the opening of this
particular session the brilliant spring sun-
shine added an extra gloss to the proceed-
ings. From the courtyard or the verandah
of Parliament House one could see
everyone arriving, the guard-of-honor
from the Air Force, the Mounted Police
(pennants flying), the Usher of the Black
Rod (Mr. A. C. Saxton in 18th century
ruffles and buckles) welcoming the im-
portant guests, the furs and hats of the
wives, daughters, etc., of members (taking
the honors, the toque in tan, black and
white worn by Mrs. C. B. Cutler,
whose husband is leader of the Country
party); the Father of the Year, Police
Commissioner C. J. Delaney and Mrs.
Delaney ; the various heads of services,
each in turn mistaken by the ignoscenti
for the Governor ; Lady Woodward, in
a grey printed wool dress and a small
white hat, and finally his Excellency.
After the ceremony the guests were enter-
tained by the President of the Legislative
Council, the Hon. W. E. Dickson, and
Mrs. Dickson, in the President’s suite, and
by the Speaker of the House, Mr. Ray
Maher, and Mrs. Maher in the Speaker’s
rooms.
* ☆ ☆
An atmosphere of gaiety and easy
informality, along with the delectable
corollaries, made quite delightful the
supper-party given in honor of singer
Harry Belafonte and his wife at the
American Club after his opening
Stadium concert. The party was given
by R.C.A., for whom the singer records
exclusively, and this was .also made the
occasion of a presentation to him of
two gold disks commemorating his
unique feat of notching record sales in
Australia with “Jamaican Farewell” and
“Island in the Sun.” This would be
equivalent to the million mark in the
U.S. The presentation was made by Mr.
Claude Pickford, R.C.A.’s records-
manager, who with Mrs. Pickford, Mr.
Ken Fidden (R.C.A. executive-director)
and Mrs. Fidden, Mr. Reg Fox (assistant
g.-m., A.W.A.) and Mrs. Fox, were joint
hosts and hostesses. Party - running
smoothness stemmed from the joint
efforts of publicity-officer Iris Moxley,
Jim Cuff and Bill Donaldson.
☆ ☆ ☆
There’s a new toy in town, a doll
called Chatty Cathy. She can say several
sentences which are reported as ranging
from “Will you play house with me?”
to “I love you.” Apparently the two
things are poles apart.
Mary Cullen will be the charming lead
in “The King and I,” which the Sydney
Light Opera Company is presenting for
a nine-day season at the Cremorne
Orpheum, the Gala Premiere being on
September I. Sydney is particularly
fortunate in being able to hear and see
Miss Cullen on this occasion, as she was
paying her home-town a visit from
Rabaul (where her husband is stationed )
when she was asked to take this role.
Photo by Falk.
If ever there was a long-felt-want it
was for some change in the presentation
of fashion-parades. The most ardent of
us wilt before the monotony of one
mannequin following another down the
runway in almost precisely the same
manner. At about the 20th garment one’s
eyes begin to play tricks and the memory
to stagger.
The answer to this 1.-f.-w. might well
be found in the parade of Stella Fraenkel
hats which was seen at the Ensemble
Theatre during the week. To begin with,
the theatre provides seats in tiers all
around the stage, like a toy amphi-
theatre, so that no one has to dodge and
crane to see the hats. Secondly, the hats
were shown, not only by the two
honorary - mannequins, v Mrs. Edward
Esdaile and Mrs. John Trenerry, but also
by a group of pretty dancers from the
Jean Dembitzka school of dancing. These
girls, clad in black leotards, mimed three
amusing scenes, shopping w
visiting an art-show, with Re,ft} »
more and Gary Shearston ff d Li '
wittily as photographers, waff g T
men, etc. In , he co„ r ” ?
choreomimes large numbers of hi!'
shown, but monotony could
creep in. Other parade-organiff?
a,r fcT -*-i
* * ☆
“Nothing decorates a room so WP n
youth itself ” The old saySglff ’
mind at the Picnic Dance which if,
Voluntary Aids held at the Trocadi!
August 22 (a date, by the way *
commemorates the first Geneva Com!
tion in 1864). With an average a»e
19, the 800 dancers could not help C
be decorative, and the atmosphere ®
most charming and gay. Guest-of-hono,
was Principal Commandant Lady Bern,
man, and she was welcomed by the
honorary director of the V.A.D. (N.SI
Division), Mrs. Persia Porter, who wok
a theatre-coat of peacock-blue satin over
a black net dress. Also in the official
party were Colonel and Mrs, %
Thomson, Mr. and Mrs. Colin Kelynack,
Dr. James and. Dr. Clair Isbistn The
prize for the best-decorated table went
to Stanmore division and second place
to Gowrie.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Young people have never had i
future so exciting or so promising as
they have today,” Mrs. Jeff Bate, State
president of the C.W.A., told delegf
to the thirteenth Younger Set Ann?
Conference of the Country Worn®
Association on Saturday. Mrs, Bate,n
an inspiring address, stressed the ada
ture that the present generation won!
find in conquering the “unseen world,
and rejected the hackneyed assertion that
youth today “has nothing to look for-
ward to.” Chairing the meeting »*
Miss Roslyn Knodler, and accepting#
Gladys Brooks trophy for the gr®
proportionate increase in branch-#®
bership was Miss Francisco on behai ‘
the Far West Group. After the
ference, the 100 or so delegates n
the day with theatre-parties to
Fair Lady” and “Ben-Hur. Asp
note, by the way, for Mrs. L. A. J
who arranged the simply w
array of spring flowers tha *
the conference-room at
Avenue, Potts Point.
•fa isr
At a time when all eyes a [ e 5
to Rome for the Olympics,
know that two Roman eyes
towards Sydney. They belong re s hortlf
Brioni, of Rome, who an A ves n Brief
to show us new fashions f° r . . ct j,o#
calls his the Roman look, as j
the Italian look, which he t i
He likes colors and has designed
suit entirely in silk,.
Sydney men, suffering m s yyt ,
theatres, will surely weleo j ■ (jj
rate, these fashions, which
premiere at David Jones o
should really give us sefloW


HELBOURNE
\ crate drawing-room at Govern-
K* was bright with.log-fires and
I H ° f Line flowers and yellow jas-
the late-afternoon party for
f Io ‘ a j ven by the Lieut.-Governor,
S Herring, and Dame Mary,
Swearing a wide-skirted (rock
Seare-blue faille, the bodice of
'featured a wide portrait-neckline
i l! ,sleeves. Assisting her parents
taaret, whose peacock-blue and
| It taffeta frock had a full skirt.
£ those who attended were Lady
i **o wore with her black frock
% satin toque softly misted with
Lotted veiling; Lady Steele, in
5 frock and beehive-cloche of pale-
la swathed tulle ; Mrs. John Griffiths,
j, added a cap of pink carnations to
4i[ Hack velvet coat; Mrs. John
gia, whose coat had a blue mink
i , i;i Mrs. Rupert Downes, who chose
i'l*(iy-red woollen frock and a black
*1 lattice-curvette finished with red
»; Mrs. Lionel Grimwade, who
mu matching curvette with her mist-
j/® woollen frock and jacket.
ft ☆ *
Here was quite an international flavor
tint the spring collection shown by
Urge's, of Collins Street. Some of the
ply ensembles included those from
pd, France, Germany, Italy,
tarland and the U.S., while others
«made right in George’s workrooms.
noted that longer, softer and
fet lines would be tops for pure-silk
if cotton styles. Only in the young
■ was seen the short, cropped look
•jackets. For the older woman, jackets
N lower, well down the hips, with
r tunic often cut to just a few inches
®e the underneath-skirt hem. Other
®t-jackets were softly tailored and
,*ei w *de belts at the natural waist-
Coining into popularity is the belted
slightly-fluted, seen on summer-
J Sleeves have taken on a
t( *> for they are to be cut wider
m occasionally on kimono-lines,
ot Ums most useful and practical
esin the collection was the smart
I linin” an . ove rhl° use to match
hj,: B f l !| e jacket. Grey is back
Wv-h P i Pa e ' Sl Ver and deeper tonings ;
jL r i e , ls a Phasing shade, with
I£ el and whipped-cream-two
l)n , eather colors. Another winner
•afrivi m f F ls a c, which was seen
I cut l i pure ' sllk from Italy. It
hi was maHp 6- tad °r ed shirt-dress lines
4 back or 6 1D j a bayadere-print on a
Apricot ° Und ' Black Swiss-organza
’celts which Were used to make two
eat ?, red . tiered skirts. Out-
-4 original co^ cdon was a Christian
lack crepe-babul, a
N « the b»nif ab i 1C ’ 11 was deeply
£ and tho f a bove a pencil-slim
% moulded ; r ? nt °f. the bodice was
® e while thf. u °, a criss-crossed waist-
-1111 awa y into a y tbe Bodace was
°' el - bats by 0 * spring frocks and
J Austin was shown
at the House of Youth Salon to more
than 300 guests. This parade was
organised by the Women’s Optometric
Group, the founder of which, Mrs. J.
Allen, was present with her husband.
Proceeds were for the Victorian College
of Optometry. Among those present
were the wife of the Chinese Consul,
Mrs. K. Y. Leung, Mr. and Mrs. Barry
Cole, Mrs. Hudson Ralph, Mrs. Margaret
Saker, Miss Rena Pope, Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. J. Swinneiton, Mr. and Mrs.
W. E. Owens, Yvonne Raphael, Dawn
Odgers and Mr. K. Gattwell.
Some years ago Mrs. Minna Hutchins
came from London to join one of the
large fashion-houses in this city as a top
designer. Later she began promoting and
writing about fashion, and has compered
many shows. Now she has started, a new
venture linked with the Housewives Asso-
ciation, at whose rooms she conducts
classes dealing with correct choice of
clothes to suit individual needs, as well
as deportment, diet, skin-care, make-up
and the care of the hair. Minna also
holds classes in etiquette. These classes
are proving very popular.
Imagination was shown by the
members of the Junior Australian-Ameri-
can Association when they held their
Grand Cotillion Ball at the Royale Ball-
room. A nine-ft. “Sambo” stood in the
foyer, the ceiling of which was almost
hidden by large white balloons. White
balloons were also used to cover the ball-
room-ceiling, whilst the pillars were fes-
tooned with white branches and mag-
nolia-blossoms, with white cut-out bou-
gainvillea leaves draped between. The
official party was preceded into the
ballroom by two colored pages, dressed
in livery and carried large candelabra
in which were tall lighted white candles.
On every table, a painted-cardboard
half-watermelon nestled in green leaves.
Two members of the association, Bruce
Robinson and Ian Evans, were res-
ponsible for the decor. In the official
party were U.S. Consul W. Ryan and
Mrs. Ryan (her short bouffant frock was
of white organza, with two bands of
rose-pink embroidery highlighting the
skirt); the U.S. cultural officer, Dr. W.
K. Braun, and Mrs. Braun (her choice
a slim-fitting gown of scarlet velvet);
Mr. and Mrs. Mark Clements (she chose
a formal gown of black chiffon lace);
Mrs. T. Spensley (whose sweeping gown
was of beech-brown satin-brocade);
and Mrs. Roy Bland.
Among charming “southern belles”
were ball-committee president Barbara
Zinnow, whose lovely shell-pink satin
gown was embroidered in pearls and
crystals ; and Junior A.-A. vice-president
Judy Gundill, in a silk-chiffon gown in
hyacinth-blue tonings. Jan Newman’s
gown was of white cotton sprigged with
a design in orange and green, the strap-
less top of orange satin extending to the
hipline of the full skirt; Marlene Hosie
chose a sheath-gown of blue floral satin-
cotton ; Sally Robinson wore white
ruched-nylon patterned in pink roses;
Mrs. T. Neesham’s gown was of white
cotton narrow-striped in black and with
the top of white Swiss embroidered cot-
ton ; Prue Malcolm (who will marry lan
Ingham at Melbourne Grammar School
Chapel on November 23) chose a short
white cotton strapless frock patterned in
huge red roses.
* ☆ ☆
Mrs. H. W. Parbury, who wore a
sapphire-blue wool suit and matching
feather-toque, was hostess at a luncheon
given just before the first race at Moonee
Valley. Her guests included Mrs. Henry
Bolte, whose ensemble was of cinnamon-
brown black-flecked tweed and a black
velvet toque ; and Mrs. A. L. Walters,
whose smart black tailored-suit was worn
with a high-crowned beige-satin hat
softly misted with chenille-spotted black
veiling. Mrs. Norman Strange chose an
azure-blue wool coat topped with a
leopard cap. The charm of navy-and-
white was expressed in Mrs. Michael
Ryan’s navy corded-wool suit worn with
a white blouse and winter-white felt
hat banded in blue. Mrs. John Reilly’s
junior-blue jacket-suit was worn with
a winter-white felt boater. Mr,s. R.
Palmer chose a wool frock in light-mole
tonings, a matching hat and a topaz-mink
stole.
Very smart was the black-and-white
bird’s-eye tweed suit worn by Mrs.
Ronald Nott. The coat was the new
seven-eighths length and was lined with
red to match her sweater. A black felt
boater went with the outfit. Of Parma-
violet wool was the suit worn by Mrs.
W. F. Arnold (Albury) with a pale-lime-
green melusine toque.
☆ ☆ ☆
The American Women’s Auxiliary to
the Royal Children’s Hospital is jubilant
because on September 9, at 2.30 p.m.,
Miss Cornelia Otis Skinner will give a
performance of monologues, for which
she is famous. Setting will be the Bamboo
room at Chevron Hotel. Tickets are one
guinea each and may be obtained Jrom
Mrs. N. P. Gilmour (Tel. 744-3523) or
Mrs. Donald McMillan (WF 7503).


AUSTRALIAN
38? ■
ill
-, V i
■: SjR-x-w*?.
A : y<’
By Bill Wannan
A fascinating book of legends, yarns, ballads and traditions of the
Australian people. At all booksellers or send to AUSTRALASIAN
BOOK SOCIETY, 96 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
25/-
233 pages
illustrated
Post Free.
ALSO: “The Swagless Swaggie,” Bush Ballads by,Ed. Harrington, 16/6.
bayonet, the last after being mortally
wounded by an enemy grenade; and
Sergeant T. C. Derrick, who, after win-
ning a D.C.M. in the Middle East,
coolly dealt with no less than ten
Japanese machine-gun posts in one
action at Sattelberg.
These were just two of the four
V.C.s won by the 2/48th, which, with
its row upon row of M.C.s, D.C.M.s
and M.M.s, was the most decorated
battalion of the Second A.I.F.
People in Poetry
Joan Tait contributes something
worthwhile to the gaiety of the nation
—and to Australian poetry —on at
least two occasions, and less certainly
in a third, in The South and the North
(Elizabethan Press, Sydney). In
“Fishing. North Queensland,” she
observes the derelict. Straw Hat Snow,
trying 10 catch fish which he will swap
for beer and dreaming memorably of
his favorite barmaid:—
Swimming within his noonday dream
She rolled her eyes like prunes in
cream,
Dangling in her gold-ringed hand
The fish now gaping on the sand.
Fishless, Snow awakes at last and plods
home like a salty, more amusing incar-
nation of Gray’s ploughman:—
“More beer!” the mighty Snowy
calls,
And down below the counter falls—
And then around his calloused feet
The nibbling tide begins to creep!
He wakes, and in the lieu of porter
He drains a beer bottle of water,
And shouldering his empty sack
Plods off along the homeward track.
It is a great pity that, apparently
unaware of a crime which awareness
might justify, Joan Tait allows herself
to rhyme “feet” with “creep,” drags-in
the unlikely potion of “porter” to make
a rhyme (of a kind) for “water,” and
lets a line of verse go as slack as the
“beer bottle” one. But that is how it
is, and the poem stays lively and effec-
tive.
The second notable occasion is when
the author catches the girl behind the
counter in the Butcher Bird Cafe:—
Gladys is a bottle blonde
With an ample bosom round,
Lustrous bells her ears bedeck,
Diamonds glitter on her hand,
Tinkling chains about her neck
Swell the rich effect.
Gladys, another dreamer —
She would catch a prince or king
With a wedding ring—
wakes to much the same disillusion as
Snow, but at least she has the foreman
of the sugar-mill in the bag:—
Swiftly by the seasons roll,
Heat and milkshakes take their
toll ;
Gladys soon will settle for
The foreman of the sugar-mill,
Whom she proudly showed the door
When her age was twenty-four.
Passing on, with the briefest shudder
at the rhyming of “neck” with “effect,”
to' the third, more serious and less
certain portrait in this vein, one comes
to “Summertime,” which is marred by
some unconvincing dialogue but which
paints its total scene very nicely and
in one stanza gives us an excellent,
up-to-date version of the bush house-
wife celebrated in former times by
Lawson and Louis Esson. Under the
threat of bushfire, mercifully averted,
She sees the house as whitened ash,
And hears the parrots call
Wheeling above the empty air
Along a blackened wall
Burnt open to the vacant day.
She sees the firelight on the hills
In rosy battledress,
It craves her homestead with its
vine,
And, satisfied with nothing le^s,
Will burn her heart away. ,
These poems, though lighter in
emotional content than most of the
others, are the best in the book. The
others, though usually avoiding the
more glaring technical faults by evad-
ing technical accomplishment alto-
gether in a kind of free-verse, are
rambling, inconclusive, more “per-
sonal.” It is better to write a fairly
light poetry well than to write heavier
verse indifferently; and the portrayal of
characters in the round, as Snow and
Gladys and the housewife are por-
trayed, is not so slight an «rv '
as it may appeal T n f hleveni - e »
sketches have everything voi,?’ , tlles '
in the typical of Iha \*
the coast, with the additional h<)l
age of that economy and mi **
which only poetry can gjv e pactles
It is a book which one wnniri i
liked to see delayed for sortina d ave
revision. However, St'S
poems are worth reading f„ P
depth of feeling, for their gl ii*
It" M Pe J anglng from the isfij
the North to Port Arthur i„ if
phrase- theirredeemi "B^
Night as dark as a green bottle
Buried fathoms below in tfe
Pacific’s green.
The book, though the wobbly ta|.
of-contents is doubtful, is veiy fa
produced—the printers are Edwards
and Shaw.
D.S.
The Amorous Philosopher
Carl Brinitzer says he wrote k
Reasonable Rebel (Allen and Dm
because “Lady M.” asked him disturb
ingly at dinner one night, “Tell me
Doctor,, are the Germans witty?”; m
the dustjacket tells us that Geor
Christoph Lichtenberg, whom Brinitzi
claims to have been Germany’s solitary
wit, “noted down in his diaries the most
scurrilous thoughts”; but both (best
claims, so far as the biography pi
vides any evidence, are somewlii
exaggerated.
If Lichtenberg was indeed wittj
hardly any of his wit is quoted, thoujl
one can imagine he would have to
amusing enough in the essay in win
ridiculing Lavater’s theories of phjf
gnomy, he “applied physiognomic
doctrine to sow’s tails, English how
tails and the tails of students’ wii
and as for the enticing promise®
“scurrilities,” one solitary quotas
from the diaries about his pranks w
one of his strawberry-selling mistres
is hardly adequate.
But still, flitting lightly through tW
pages, Lichtenberg, the amo '
hunchbacked philosopher of Go
is an intriguing, most apnabfe JJ
man, and it is pleasant to rea
him. . im
He was born in a
in 1742, the 17th child of the Pg
of Ober-Ramstadt. The
claim to fame, apart fr )0
fathered seventeen children,
have been that once, having
poem, he fell asleep or in
and thought he had w^- n
better one, the words rep ac g
on the paper. He wfil»
tunately, his own woras , ofj,im-
the paper, and that was the ,|*
Lichtenberg, early dip l


s!°° k scout
idol 8 e ease send your out -of-print
j 1 Scout , Bo* 9i y^ Ur re 9 ui rernents t o
2178 . G.P.0., Sydney.
THE LIVING THEATRE
Elmer Rice
This is a highly informative, personal and practical account of the living
theatre which is at once disturbing, provocative and entertaining, by one
of the greatest men in the contemporary theatre. - • 26/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
I j nhilosophical interests
ntific and P f amo us, in his
. c* to fetch and
*n„t lost interest when he found
s'. b “ ' „„able to communicate
LeSvely with the animal. One
n ote, “What are the
IfnTiehts 7 ” addressed it to an
Jfi left it on the roof. Brimtzer
f cav if it was answered.
& he was disputing in Latin
I iht to commit suicide. A few
® ijter having escaped from the
| v of Gottingen, where circum-
had compelled him to become
T and where his only consola-
Is following the servant-girls
ie streets, he visited England;
e. perhaps, is the basic motive
)o ok. for he loved England and
it without restraint: “Nowhere
man being so respected as in
U country, and everything is enjoyed
titbody and soul, which can only be
j,at of under the soldier-govern-
Bii" Europe really hasn’t changed
mi since 1770.
Min Gottingen, now a professor,
i: gallantly wrote a defence of the
tell philosopher Mendelssohn, whom
hater was trying to trap into making
Jjistian, or, rather, non-Christian
clarations. This, however, he pru-
!lly left unpublished in his drawer
tee years, and then brought it out
piously. It was called “Timorus.’ -
also wrote, and burnt, a treatise
Id “Geometry for Married
liples.”
h 1774 he was in England again;
hit first he made one of a party of
scientists who were trying to ascertain
fc latitude of some German villages:
Most of the inhabitants seriously be-
feved that, following the recent bad
'lather. Lichtenberg had been sent by
to make a small alteration to
the earth.”
England he ventured into sea-
"tg. being transported into the
L 7. a horse-drawn bathing-
which, when a kind of
1, 1 ” ecn chastely erected around
liable to lower himself by
P and kneel on one knee in the
sifnfv e , w^at kss chaste were
%ts 'mH l dventures * n the London
Redness S W ? S a P leasin § hght-
itjfc, ’ though of course the
abou t his scientific
wi h Kln , 8 Geor s e HI. who
«et the i;„ on Playfully put his hat
HhSfe h” ,e l e . sc °P e “ and
Willy t „ ■ ■ foghly at Lichtenberg's
C c h a „t Cover the cause of this
V” Uo lr \ aspect of the
aso met Garrick, of
whose acting he left (quoted, for once)
a vivid description.
Afterwards three of the sons of
George 111, accompanied by the gift of
a telescope, were sent to Gottingen,
where they grew very fat, refused for a
whole year to speak to their tutors and
amused themselves by throwing pennies
to the crowds from their windows and,
when enough people had collected,
pouring buckets of water on their heads.
But before that Lichtenberg had taken
affectionately unto his bosom, though
not to church, a thirteen-year-old girl,
whom he had spotted selling straw-
berries in the market-place and thought
to save from something worse; and,
interested in lightning, in balloons, in
Spinoza and in Hogarth, had conducted
many other experiments which, with his
writing, were to bring him his well-
deserved fame.
His “confusion of notes and scraps
of detail” were praised by Schopen-
hauer, Hebbel and Tolstoi; and, really,
though the slight biography has its own
charm, it is a great pity that Brinitzer
did not quote more of them and so
make a solider job of the book.
£4250 Book Prize
Hodder and Stoughton announce
that they are participating in the £B5OO
(stg.) international non-fiction book
award organised by the German pub-
lishers, Econ Verlag, Dusseldorf. in
celebration of that firm’s tenth anni-
versary.
The first prize is £4250 (stg.), second
£2550, third £l7OO. The winner will
be published in Britain, Germany,
Denmark, Finland, France, Holland,
Italy, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the
U.S.A. “The subject may be chosen
from the fields of economics, science,
technology or culture, and must be of
international interest. It must have its
foundation in sound research, but must
also be written in popular style in order
to reach the widest possible reader-
ship.”
Manuscripts go to Hodder and
Stoughton, Econ Prize, Warwick
Square, London, E.C.4. Closing date is
October 31, 1961, but manuscripts are
welcomed immediately The prize will
be announced in January, 1962; but a
manuscript, if accepted after April 15,
1960, and published in 1961 before the
award is announced, can still qualify
for the award.
Further information is available from
the General Editor, Hodder and
Stoughton, Ltd., 425 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Reviewed Briefly
From Kosciusko to Camay on:
Harold Darwin (Wattle Press,
Adelaide)). For the past two years the
author has taken a library service to
the outback in South Australia, and
this book of verse was written on the
track. It is amateurish but cheerful
stuff, with some authentic observation:
A man, three dogs, a thousand sheep
Set off a rendezvous to keep.
Four thousand trotters press the grass
As over hill and dale they pass.
“Sit down!” The three dogs know
their places
By woolly lake of white sheep-faces.
* * * *
Theatre Arts in Australia: John
Kardoss (Wentworth Press, Sydney).
The text of an address delivered by
the author at the Independent Theatre
(North Sydney) last December. After
briefly outlining the history of Aus-
tralian theatrical activity since the time
of the First Fleet, the author argues
that theatre could again become a vital
part of Australian life if the rich
backed it; if Australians shed their
national inferiority - complex and
realised how much local talent they
have; if State or municipal theatres
were built in every capital and effici-
ently managed—i.e., by the best men
for the job, “regardless of nationality,
creed or class.” He calls on the Gov-
ernment to lead “the change of atti-
tude and creation of a favorable
atmosphere to the arts and letters by
enlightened and active patronage”;
otherwise the world could “witness the
unique phenomenon—a nation led on
the road of prosperous materialism
towards total spiritual bankruptcy.”


THE
IP
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
■ -
{lncorporated in New South Wales 1878)
ASSETS EXCEED
p>
£50,000,000
THE ONLY ENTIRELY AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE
* • .
ALL PROFITS DISTRIBUTED ANNUALLY
TO POLICYHOLDERS NO SHAREHOLDERS
*
ALL CLASSES OF ORDINARY
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICIES ISSUED
*
SPECIALISED TREATMENT GIVEN TO
SUPERANNUATION SCHEMES
*
FIRE, ACCIDENT AND GENERAL INSURANCES
ALSO EFFECTED
THE
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE:
60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney. Telephone: 8W2021
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
M. John O’Neill (Chairman)
Hon. T. G. Murray.
H. Morrissey (Deputy Chairman)
Norman B. Rydge, C.B.E.
C. A. Ralph (General Manager)
211
