

The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 22, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission' by post as a newspaper.
"Stop throwing crumbs outside or you'll have all the birds around the place."


HOOK II l' N'TKR, Box 2671, C.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume. Jet ns find it for you—tietiou,
text book, Idograpliy, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
THE NEW CULOTTA
Nino Culotta, who wrote “They’re a
Weird Mob” and now Cop This Lot
(Ure Smith Pty., Ltd.) is John O'Grady
—and that point at least may be swiftly
disposed-of . . . much more quickly
than O’Grady deals with it in the new
novel, where it takes him a whole
introductory chapter to clarify or con-
fuse the issue. Authors who write a
sequel to a bestseller should never
refer to the first book in this way —
still less go into the question of who
they are and whether or not they exist.
It wastes time and space and it destroys
the second book’s illusion of reality.
But that is a detail; and the rest of
“Cop This Lot” cannot be disposed-of
so readily. It has. in fact, become
difficult for any reader or reviewer to
see one of O'Grady’s books clearly and
detachedly. “They’re a Weird Mob”
has sold over 250,000 copies, and that
is a very dazzling total.
One reason, of course, for that
novel’s immense popularity was that it
was sentimental and it flattered us. It
told us that Australian girls fling them-
selves with the greatest readiness into
the arms of Italian migrants; which
they do not. It told us that we all
make the migrants welcome; which we
do not. It told us that the migrants all
instantly recognise the superiority of
our way of life to anything they have
left behind in decadent, civilised old
Europe; which is hardly the case. It
told us, in effect, that beer, independ-
ence and the development of a richly
incomprehensible slang have combined
to make us the salt of the earth; which
is contestable.
But we love to be told all these
things. They make us feel noble and
generous and tough and democratic.
In its combination of sentimentality and
flattery of the national ego for its
toughness “They're a Weird Mob” was,
in fact, almost identical in spirit with
C. J. Dennis's “The Sentimental
Bloke”; and that also was enormously
popular.
In one respect “They’re a Weird
Mob” was a good deal less artistically
satisfying than “The Sentimental
Bloke.” for Dennis had his skilful
versification to sustain him and make
him memorable; in another respect it
may well have been more satisfying,
for both in language and character
O’Crady’s workmen were much more
convincing than Dennis’s essentially
literary larrikins. But the really
interesting thing about both books is
that, underneath their sentimentalities
and their flattery they did catch some
genuine, and genuinely admirable,
aspects of the national ego—a genuine
toughness, a genuine democracy, a
genuine sardonic humor, a genuine
scorn for pretentiousness and humbug.
The great thing that “They’re a
Weird Mob” did was to satisfy our
immense, our natural and our wholly
legitimate passion to see ourselves in
a mirror: not as we were in the past;
not as we are in the outback; not as
we are in the tonier suburbs where we
do not feel we are representative; but
as we are here and now, among the
typical workmen, in the great cities
where most of us live. It held up the
mirror to us much in the same way as
did “Summer of the Seventeenth
Doll”; and it is amazing how well and
how simply—a couple of very good
beer-parties, a wonderful bit of slang
about horses, some humorous chiack-
ing on a building-job —O’Grady did it.
He was infinitely more convincing than
most of the novelists who romantically
explore the slums in search of just his
kind of contemporary validity; and his
secret was simply that he observed
accurately and with humor.
So his new book comes in a kind of
glitter; and how is one to see it
clearly?
One thing is plain enough: it can
hardly have the overwhelming popular
appeal of the other. A sequel is
hardly ever as good as its predecessor,
not having the same spontaneity; but,
apart from that, Australian man on his
travels in Europe, which is the theme
of “Cop This Lot,” cannot evoke and
satisfy the same impassioned curiosity
as the study of Australian man at
home. Those of us who have been
abroad —and that means thousands of
us—will of course be interested, fas-
cinated. even appalled to see how we
have behaved; but those of us who have
stayed at home —though we may still
like to read about Australian man
abroad, or to follow O’Grady and his
characters —can hardly care so much.
Nevertheless, at least for our thous-
ands of travellers, the behavior of the
Australian abroad is a very good theme
for a humorous, picaresque novel; so
good, in fact, that one wishes O’Grady
had taken more pains—or more plea-
sure—with it.
As the characters from “They’re a
Weird Mob.” now visiting Nino’s
parents in Italy, stop-off at Liverpool,
drink beer and crown Nino with the
chamber-pot. and as they spin merrily
on through Europe, sighing for steak-
and-eggs. until they make their way to
Italy and have fun with the food, the
wine, the language, the natives and
Nino’s bizarre old father, the story is
amusing enough and, up to a point, has
some general significance as a picture
©f Australians abroad. If we are not
all as crude as Joe we do all sometimes
long for steak-and-eggs; and all that
that noble dish implies.
But as a study of the Australian
abroad, partly satirical, partly sympa-
thetic —and O’Grady here too oftei)
allows sympathy to overcome satire—•
it is too slight to be satisfying, either
in its characterisation of the Australians
or in its pictures of travel. Though one
is relieved that these travellers are
allowed to admire the paintings in the
Louvre instead of criticising them for
not being “democratic” as Mark Twain
did in one dreadful passage of “The
Innocents Abroad” —a book which with
“Cop This Lot” has obvious affinities
—the book as a whole is very flimsy
in comparison with that revealing pic-
ture of travelling Americans. It should
have been taken more broadly and
leisurely, with a more representative
and varied group of characters; per-
haps an entirely fresh set from those
in “They're a Weird Mob,”
By far the most entertaining part of
it is the final chapter when they are
back in Sydney at a beer-party. Here
O’Grady is in the territory where he has
learned to move with assurance; here
Joe and Dennis, hilariously playing the
goat and proving that they could be-
have like perfect gentlemen if they
didn’t think it beneath them, once more
become the salt of the earth; and here
is the touch which will appeal to all
Australian readers, whether they have
travelled or not —how good it is to be
home again.
Smalltown Gossip
“Gossip” is a very mild word indeed
for the townspeople's spate of slander
which is made the instrument of fate in
Thea Astley’s novel A Descant for
Gossips (Angus and Robertson). The
town’s venom infects the whole book
so powerfully that the characters seem
all to move in a sick, enfeebled
atmosphere where no one is admirable
except the two schoolteachers whose
love is frustrated by the general
maliciousness and the young girl who
devotes herself to them.
The love-affair between the teachers
forms the basis of the rather frail plot,
but as the gossip gathers around them
in thickening clouds, we are shown its
effect upon the schoolgirl, the outsider,
to whom they alone represent hope.
After they are disgraced and parted by
the gossip she commits suicide, and
we see the disastrous side-effects of the
slander which has assailed them.
It is very hard, however, to feel much
sympathy for the two lovers. They are
too mannered and detached, too intel-
lectually snobbish. They “lie among
their own lunch-wrappings and explore
{Continued on page 58)


f!
M-vl
1
J
I
I J 9
T^'
&o«i
||§|l|§|
Ml
"3
wr S
w
y
C o
o o
X
FRESH IDEAS
KEEP US YOUNG
Every year a fresh crop of “bright ideas” helps us perform a better job for our
customers and friends.
These ideas come from our own railway people. Mostly they suggest small
improvements train loads and compositions, alterations to passenger and goods
rolling stock, conservation of equipment, altered workshop techniques, recovery
of scrap materials, passenger and freight sales, additional and altered tiack and
plant maintenance arrangements.
We adopt an average of better than 300 ideas a year. Every one of them helps
improve the efficiency of the New South Wales Government Railways. And, for
every idea adopted, an employee receives a suitable award.
The weekly flow of fresh ideas, plus the expenditure of more than £lOO million
for improvements in the past ten years, enables us to give New South Wales the
kind of transportation service it must have to stay prosperous and strong.
cc
CO
Q
is*.
it*.
&
x;
>«*o
a
K4&23-A
NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAILWAYS


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 22, 1960
Vol 81— No. 4193
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
LABOR AND THE BOMBS
nrHE two A.L.P. conferences held in
* Sydney and Melbourne last week
were peculiar affairs, nebulous and
muted in tone, with few highlights
except the return of Labor’s prodigal
son, A. A. Calwell, bearing as a gift
out of the wilderness the withered piece
of prickly-pear fruit called socialisa-
tion which the party had cast-out after
the debacle of the 1949 Federal election.
Few of the N. S. Wales delegates
showed any anxiety to chew on this
spiny object, which has caused so many
sore mouths in its time. They were
inclined to wince as Mr. Calwell ex-
pounded the beauties of Labor’s out-
moded and discarded doctrine and main
objective.
It was as if an outcast unfilial Arab
had returned from his exile bearing a
piece of cowdung for the paternal fire
to discover that during his absence his
parents had struck oil and had
equipped the black tent with televi-
sion and electronic cooking.
However, N.S.W. is an. outlandish
State, and Mr. Calwell did well to
choose it for his essay. In his own
bailiv/ick of Victoria the advanced
thinkers of the A.L.P. would have burst
into a gale of laughter at the thought
that Mr. Calwell’s assurance was
needed to prove to it that it was still
Socialist.
The Victorians, by resolutions, made
it clear that for them mere socialisa-
tion is not enough. Communism, raw
and Red, is the chosen diet—Socialism
operated by soviets in the approved
Leninist-Trotskyist manner.
The conference passed resolutions to
ask the Federal A.L.P. Conference
next year to institute “worker-control”,
of all industries under Government
control when Labor should acquire
office, a start to insert the thin edge
of the wedge to be made by general
introduction of “elected manager-
worker boards to co-operate in the
running of selected industries.”
'T'HE delightful results to be expected
* from this heady scheme can be
easily estimated from a retrospect of
the manner in which Mr. Healy, say, of
the Waterside Workers, co-operated
with the rest of the Stevedoring
Authority when the last Federal Labor
Government made a civil servant of
him after the war, and of how the
Miners’ Federation leaders co-operated
with Mr. Eddie Ward when he virtu-
ally, if unofficially, deeded them con-
trol of the coal industry during the war.
The result in each case was chaos
aimed gleefully to produce the longed-
for Communist revolution and the
dictatorship of the proletariat.
The Communists are the only people
who are heartily behind the Victorian
A.L.P.’s idea, and their idea of co-
operation is the kind that is sometimes
organised between the wolf and the
rabbit, with the Red wolf doing the
swallowing and the rabbit perforce
doing the co-operating.
One difference in the proceedings
between the two State conferences was
that in Victoria there was no reported
debate on foreign policy because none
is needed. Their policy is ready-made
for them in Moscow, and they are so
much at one with the Kremlin in these
matters that debate and justification
are not required.
N. S. Wales, however, is made of
softer stuff, and feels that it needs an
apologist or adaptive attitude towards
foreign affairs, one which gives it cake
without paying for it.
In N.S.W. the Reds were presented
with a determination to have Red China
recognised under the impression that
Peking will be ready to recognise us,
which is unlikely at this stage, except
on conditions utterly untenable, some
of which would certainly involve the
abandonment of another resolution of
the conference —to co-operate with the
United States in the Pacific and sup-
port Seato, which to Mao and Chou
is pure strychnine from its summit
downwards.
These two warlike gentry, who
believe that Socialism and Communism
can only “grow out of the barrel of a
gun,” would, however, concede some-
thing in return for the N.S.W. deter-
mination that the Australian Seato
representative “should oppose the bol-
stering of military and reactionary
regimes in South-east Asia, whose
continued corrupt administration is
causing the Asian people to look to
the Soviet bloc for support instead of
to the Western democracies.”
The names of these countries were
not stated, but presumably those of
China and Tibet are not among them.
Presumably they include any country
in South-east Asia which has to live
under a sort of martial law as a shield
against Communism.
At any rate, resolutions of this kind
are a great help to Communist propa-
gandists s as are the inferences contained
in the resolutions suggesting that the
Colombo Plan at present is used to help
“vested interests” and not to give “the
type of help to the Asian peoples which
will impress on them the fact that Aus-
tralia is more interested in bringing
succor to them and ending their
economic oppression than in perpetuat-
ing their exploitation.”
This, of course, infers, inter alia,
that Australia should interfere in the
internal politics of these countries if
it does not like their Government’s
habits, thus providing a valuable pre-
cedent to justify imitation ad lib by
Moscow and its agents.
~MUCLEAR weapons had an airing in
the Sydney conference, and here
again the resolution embodying a
demand that experimentation with
them by way of explosions of bombs
be banned was a nice contribution to
friendly relations with the United
States, and, of course, to Australian
security and defence which may depend
on the results of such explosions.
By the time a few months have gone
by the A.L.P. will probably wish that
it had never allowed its executive to
dragoon it into having such a plan put
on record, however muoh it v may be
necessary for the many Labor visitors
to Red China at the expense of the
Communists to do something to pay for
Chinese hospitality.
Defence is a matter on which Labor
parties are breaking their skulls and
knuckles everywhere, and although in
Australia it is something to which
Labor in these days only gives lip-
service for electioneering purposes and
to placate the big Red unions with
money, it is much more in the United
Kingdom.
There developments during the past
week have led the secretary of the
British Labor Party, Morgan Phillips,
to tell a conference of unionists that
“we are slipping down the slope of
discord and disunity” over the con-
troversy about the banning of nuclear-
bombs unilaterally by the United
Kingdom.
Mr. Gaitskell’s leadership and the
solidity of the party under stress of
a real internal civil war brought on by
the pressures of Communist-led or
-influenced unions and extreme Left
politicians of the Zilliacus and Silver-
man type are in danger.
There is no such danger from the
same kind of cause in Australia. Part
of the equipment of all Australian
Labor leaders, Parliamentary or other-
wise, is a red flag kept handy to wave
in surrender whenever the Red union-
leaders growl.


"LEFT—RIGHT—LEFT—RIGHT"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Eisenhower for Home
The Japanese Government’s decision
that the time was not opportune for Presi-
dent Eisenhower’s visit was a blow to
United States prestige in Asia, even if
it has been brought about by a small
but well-organised and violent minority
under Communist influence.
It is clear from the Japanese press,
and from the reports of responsible
journalists in Japan, that the demon-
strators whose violence has prevented
the visit, disgraced Japan and threatened
its security are divided into three sections.
These are a Parliamentary Opposition
section and its followers who oppose the
precipitateness of Mr. Kishi’s maladroit
attempt to rush the Security Treaty with
the U.S.A. through the Diet; a section
which is opposed to the Kishi Govern-
ment on political grounds apart from
the treaty and which is prepared to join
in anything that will pull it down ; and
the Communist organisers who have co-
ordinated the whole business with the
help of their friends in Red China and
a mixed adolescent and rabble mob.
The Communist aim is the more serious
one of discrediting the United States in
the Far East, destroying Western defences
there and dividing the Western allies in
the Pacific while alienating the small
South-east Asian nations from their Wes-
tern friends and drawing them, with
Japan, inside the Iron Curtain.
The stake is tremendous, and the game
is being played on the Communist side
with every weapon available, from toe-
nails upwards.
In the end, however, the results that
have shocked the world and insulted both
President Eisenhower and the United
States may not work out quite in the
way its organisers hope. The propaganda
of Peking is making it all too plain to
the Japanese that what was originally
merely a matter of internal politics has
assumed a major international aspect.
Though the Socialist Opposition section
seems to have been opposed tO\President
Eisenhower’s visit simply because it felt
that it would bolster-up the Kishi Govern-
ment, its statements have been specific
that it is friendly to the United States
and the President but will do anything
to prevent him being used as a shield by
Kishi.
“Asahi Shimbun,” the paper with the
largest circulation in Japan, an enemy of
the Kishi regime and a critic of the tim-
ing of the visit, commented that the
country must avoid at all costs anything
that would “turn anti-Kishi movements
in the nation into anti-American move-
ments.”
Mr. Kishi is declared to have told the
U.S. Government that a cancellation of
the visit would undoubtedly bring about
the downfall of the Kishi Government
and perhaps result in a Government
being installed under the direct influence
of the Socialists.
It certainly seems that a blunder was
committed in pressing forward with the
plan in the face of force which could
only have been quelled during the visit
by police and military violence and
which might even have resulted in danger
to the President.
The nature of the Japanese people,
especially when operating their agglutina-
tive thinking in emotional mobs, makes
it highly inadvisable to use violence
against them. Whereas the fact that
America, the source of work and markets
which cannot be replaced, and of defence
which keeps out the hated Red Chinese,
has been insulted and rebuffed will have
a salutary effect on Japanese public
opinion and probably bring about healthy
reactions.
At the same time, the incident may
add a little to the weight of evidence
accumulating on the doorstep of Wash-
ington that large nations, even those
bearing gifts, which try to run the world
are apt to become a little unpopular even
in the quarters that have benefited most
by their philanthropy.
Q.L.P. and the Bodysnatchers
Defeat of ex-Premier Gair and several
of his Q.L.P. colleagues in the Queens-
land election set both the A.L.P. and
the D.L.P. figuring hard to see what profit
could be gained from the situation.
For the A.L.P. the mere fact itself was
a gain, as the breakaway group in the
Assembly was reduced in numbers and
bereft of its leader. The possibility of
winning the rebels back to the fold must
seem nearer than before the election, and
it would have seemed nearer still had
Labor been able to unseat Q.L.P. Deputy-
leader E. J. Walsh in Bundaberg. On
election-night this looked a possibility,
but later counting went in Walsh’s favor.
To the D.L.P. the weakened condition
of the Q.L.P. makes a closer link be-
tween the two secession groups all the
more imperative.
Up to the present neither side seems
to have made much progress in its
courtship. There’s no sign of the Q.L.P.
burying the hatchet with the Queens-
land executive of Labor, and outwardly
the A.L.P. doesn’t even admit that it
would either make or welcome overtures.
The visit to Brisbane of B. A. Santamaria
naturally aroused talk of D.L.P-Q.L.P.
negotiations, but Santa disowned any
authority to commit anyone. He said
he had called on Gair, “a close friend,”
but had not met any other Q.L.P. Parlia-
mentarians.
Oddly enough, the re-election of Walsh,
although a blow to Labor, has also made
a fusion of D.L.P. and Q.L.P. interests
more difficult. At the annual conference
of the Q.L.P. last November the question
of amalgamating with the D.L.P. was
raised. Walsh opposed the suggestion
vehemently, even to the extent of
threatening to resign if it was agreed to.
The motion was rejected by a very big
majority. Last week he reminded
questioners of this and said there was
no purpose in discussing the subject
before the next annual conference —
which won’t be for another four or
five months.
An Unsolved Air Tragedy
On January 26 this year The Bulletin’s
oil-correspondent, Launcelot Owen, was
lost in a Portuguese-owned Heron air-
craft, with eight others aboard, while
flying in bad weather from Darwin to
Portuguese Timor. So far relatives of
those on board have been unable to get
from any authority, Australian or
Portuguese, any document which is
acceptable in N.S.W. as evidence of
death of those who were on the aircraft.
Not only that. If there has been any
official inquiry by the Department of
Civil Aviation, not a word of its findings
has been heard by'Mrs. Owen. It has
been reported from other sources that
at Canberra the matter has been con-
sidered as something for investigation
by the Portuguesfe, not by Australian
authorities, as the aircraft is assumed to
have been lost outside Australian
territory.
If that is so it is pure assumption. One
of the few things known for certain is
that the aircraft took-off from Darwin, an
international airport in Commonwealth
territory. Where it finished-up no one
knows. The whole circumstances of the
tragedy, including the taking-off of that
type of aircraft in that kind of weather,
call out for inquiry.
No Asian Quota
Another advocate of a quota for Asian
migrants has been parading in a spiritual
hair-shirt because of what he calls Aus-
tralia’s “stigma of racial prejudice.”
This, he says, could be removed at one
swoop by bringing in a quota of Asian
migrants.
The critic is K. Toombes, chairman
of the Liberal party's policy-committee,
who, as reported by the Brisbane
“Courier-Mail,” wished it to be known
that the views he expressed on this sub-
ject at the Young Liberals’ political-
science school at Montville were his
personal views and not those of the
Liberal party.
It is just as well for his party that
he expressed these views three weeks
after the Queensland election and not
three weeks before it. Even though the
views are his own, they betray such
loose thinking as to arouse misgivings
about the sort of policy his policy-
committee is likely to recommend to
Queensland Liberals.
To begin with: “Australia is Asia.
We must not only be Asians geographi-
cally, but also racially.” This is
nonsense.. Australia is not Asia and is
not a part of Asia. Australians are not
Asians geographically and they’ve no
intention of becoming Asians racially,
even if such a thing were possible.
Toombes apparently fears Asia and
feels that there are hostile elements
there that must be propitiated:
Our only chance of survival is to
become the leaders of Asia. But Asians
are not likely to look to us as leaders


while we are tied to European prejudice.
We must breed a race of Eurasians.
What sort of crazy policy-planning is
this? We’re in danger from Asia —so
great a danger that it threatens our very
existence. It can only be averted by our
becoming leaders of the forces that
threaten us and we can only do this by
inter-marrying with Asian migrants.
What utter rot! /
Why Asia, with its 1,500-million
people, should accept the leadership of
Australia’s 10 million is not explained,
but one thing is certain, and that is that
if it won’t accept our friendship because
we’re white, there’s no chance on earth
of its accepting the leadership of our
descendants just because we’ve turned
’em brindle. Asians don’t hold the
Eurasian in high esteem. Quite the
reverse.
Australia has no need to be ashamed
of its immigration policy. It has just
as much right to determine whom it will
accept as citizens as has Ceylon (which
excludes Indians) and Indonesia (which
is expelling Chinese). Ruling authorities
in most Asian countries ■ understand
and accept our policy ; the main criticism
comes from shortsighted do-gooders in
our own country. A quota—'Toombes
suggests 10,000 a year, without going into
details —would do nothing to solve
Asia’s population problems and it would
raise within our shores racial problems
already tragically apparent in other
countries, but from which we are so far
fortunately free.
The Deaf Ph.D.
One of the most admirable academic
careers of any Australian came to light
last week with the announcement that
Dr. Pierre Gorman has won a Doctorate
of Philosophy at Cambridge University,
probably the first ever earned in the
British Empire by a deaf person..
He is 34, the son of the notable Mel-
burnian Eugene Gorman, the Q.C. who
is also one of the brainwaves of the
V.R.C. committee. Pierre has been com-
pletely deaf from birth. No instruments
could help him as he had no residual
hearing. Every word had to be taught
to him because he could not repeat what
he could not hear.
He was taught to lip-read when he
was 2y years old by a special teacher, and
devoted work was put in, too, by Mrs.
Gorman ; some U.S. experts now
consider him the best lip-reader in the
world. When he began school, at Mel-
bourne Grammar, it was considered
quite remarkable if a deaf child won the
merit certificate, but the youth went on
to win two Melbourne University degrees,
Bachelor of Education and of Agricul-
ture. No other deaf Australian has
secured one.
Dr. Gorman is now associated with the
National Institute of the Deaf in London,
has just returned from advising the Yugo-
slav Government, and will return to give
more advice, is one of the five executive
directors of the World Federation of
Deafness (to which 49 nations subscribe),
and feels he has been so lucky (the
Gormans’ modest adjective) he must
devote his life to aiding the deaf, in edu-
cation and social progress.
The Bulletin congratulated Eugene
Gorman on his son’s achievement. “He
is completely devoted to his career and
he will accept no money at all for his
efforts,” said the Q.C. “That’s why I
have to keep on trying to back a winner,”
he added. But that, of course, is an
avocation at which not even a Gorman
could succeed.
Communist Methods
Evidence that there is a build-up of
Communist activity in the vital spots of
the world is becoming clearer each day,
and the cynical methods by which the
Communists are getting into position are
well illustrated by a case that has been
the talk of Newcastle (N.S.W.) for some
days.
A well-known Newcastle union official,
R. Miller, assistant-secretary of the New-
castle Boilermakers’ Society, which is
under strong Communist influence,
alleges in a circular that “in the week
prior to calling for nominations by
officers of our union,” he was approached
by two Communist-party officials, Olive
and Aarons, who requested that he stand
down from nomination for the secretary-
ship, which was being-vacated, in favor of
R. Adamson, a Communist.
Miller said that when he refused he was
asked to talk to “Brother Buckley, the
Federal secretary, Brother Allwood,
branch secretary, Brother Adamson and
Messrs. Olive and Aarons.”
Miller states:
A discussion took place on Saturday
afternoon, 28/5/’6O ... It was suggested
that if I did not contest the position ot
secretary i would not be opposed for
the position of assistant-secretary and that
this position would be a temporarily paid
one for a period of three months and
then made full time in an organising
capacity.
The suggestion was made (he added),
in spite of the fact that early this year
it had been proved to the executive and
the branch of the union that the creation
of another full-time position was
impracticable and unworkable without a
10s. quarterly levy being imposed on
all branch workers ; but Comrade Aarons,
of the Communist Party Central Com-
mittee, brushed this small consideration
aside and “replied determinedly and
emphatically” that “Adamson had to be
the man.” He was a member of the
Communist party, “would go when told
to go and stop when told to stop.” And
“as it was anticipated there would be
trouble in the heavy industries in the
near future it was necessary they should
have someone they could count on in
control of the union.”
The reply to these charges by Adamson
admits to there having been “behind the
scenes negotiations” with Miller, but his
version is that “four weeks ago Brother
Miller approached Mr. Allwood (the
retiring secretary) and another man” and
asked them to “use their influence to get
me not to stand for the position of
secretary,” Miller adding (so Adamson
alleges) that “if he were supported for
the position he would join the Com-
munist Party.”
Whichever version is true, it illustrates
the hold the Communist party has on
unions on which the defence of Australia
and the progress of industry depends.
It is easy to believe, from watching
world trends, that the artificially created
strikes in transport accompanied by dis-
graceful rowdyism, contempt of court
and insults to judges which have been a
feature of the industrial life of the
big Communist-controlled unions during
the past few weeks are a prelude to greater
things.
The same processes have, for instance,
been organised in France in a striking
parallel to Communist-generated action
in Australia.
Within the past few days air-travel has
been affected by trouble in unions cover-
ing mechanical ground-staffs in the Com-
monwealth and in France, though with
greater power the French strike has been
more effective. Paris has had bus strikes
over trivial matters ; so has Sydney. In
France railway transport has been held-
up as in Victoria, and pretexts are being
found to bring out the steelworkers- and
paralyse heavy industry in France as in
Japan and as appears to be promised in
Australia if the Newcastle reports are
accurate. Some sections of the French
civil service have been brought out on
24-hour strikes for more pay.
It is time the Commonwealth and the
States took a look at Communist activity
in Australia. It appears to be strongly on
the upsurge, with ample funds behind it.
Henry Lawson at Grenfell
The Henry Lawson Festival at Grenfell
(N.S.W.), Lawson’s birthplace, was better
this year. The weather was kinder and
attendances higher.
The Ampol award for prose was won
by Cyril E. Goode, of Melbourne, for his
short-story, “The Case of the Haunted
Taxi.” The Ampol “Oscar” for verse
went to Eric C. Rolls, of Boggabri
; (N.S.W.), for his piece “The Fox.” The
award for the best work of art in the exhi-
bition went to Arthur Freeman for his
“Fishermen,” in oils. Peter Laverty took-
out the prize for watercolors, and Hal
Boyes the local artist's award. There were
111 entries in the main art competition.
The Lawson Festival is now an annual
event in Grenfell, and is held on the
Queen’s Birthday holiday, which is within
a few days of Lawson’s birthday. Gren-
fell is the right setting for tne festival,
which had an enthusiastic (and extremely
hard-working) committee, led by Harold
Goodwin, to launch it.
Apart from the competitions there is
always a full programme of entertain-
ment —including a Lawson concert and,
this year, a woolshed dance.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Che was Hungarian - Rumanian;
she had mastered six languages,
played five musical instruments and
matriculated in her own country,
but she just couldn’t master the
Australian art of tea-making. “You
couldn’t have boiled the water,” 1 said.
“But I did,” she persisted. “Are you
sure?” “Yes.” Then, decisively, “Twice!”
—“B.A.N.”
*Z* ♦> ♦>
“Kelanoa”: The neatest little Nip we
met in N.G. surrendered to us at Wewak
just before close of play in 1945. Ques-
tioned by A.T.I.S. about his brand-new
clothes he explained that they .were issued
to him some weeks before but he had
kept them for this very day. He wanted,
he said, to look his best on arrival.
*Z* ♦♦♦ ' *Z*
“Yen”: A friend lost her spectacles
while shopping in Sydney and advertised
in one of the morning dailies. That
evening a phone-caller gave a rough
description of the lost glasses and said
they could be collected if she visited a
certain address. Rather than drag miles
across the city to an outer suburb, the
specless one wrote a letter of thanks to
the address given asking for their return
and enclosing a £ 1-note as a reward.
Back came a letter minus glasses but
returning the 20s. and saying that the
writer had not found any spectacles at
all, but for the past two years some per-
son unknown but no doubt filled with
spite had sent over 200 people who had
advertised in the “Lost and Found”
column for things ranging from lost cats
to diamond-rings on a wild-goose chase
to the address my friend had written to
so hopefully.
A A A
V V V
“Hen”: Not being a good breeder I
keep my usually shortlived pregnancies
as quiet as possible. But this time it
seems 0.k., and the doctor advised me
to let my only child, now 10 years old,
know of the impending event before
others enlightened her. “Merry,” I said,
“I want to tell you a big secret, but
you mustn’t tell any of your friends.”
In that case, she informed me, I had better
not tell her. Baffled, I tried again next
“iF madam is not satisfied I could show her something slightly
more ridiculous.”
day. “Merry, don’t tell anybody, but
I think we’re going to have a little baby.”
She was gravely delighted. “If you don’t
mind,” she said, “I’d like to tell just one
other person.” My heart sank. “After
all,” she continued, “I do think Daddy
ought to know.”
*Z* ♦>
“Narumee”: From my teenage corres-
pondent : —-
Jane’s pa went and got married again
suddenly on Saturday. The other kids say
it's awfully soon, but I think it’s like
Clare getting another dog the same day
as Torpid got run over by the butcher.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sevenelms”: Saturday night Bob D.
flunked a quiz aspirant who defined
water-nymphs as “nereids” instead of
“naiads,” but in spritely circles the dis-
tinction is just a matter of salinity.
Nereids sport in shallow seas and naiads
bask in babbling brooks. For the future
of the race all nymphs leant heavily upon
sea-and-river gods, plus important satyric
co-operation. Whenever the fauns staged
a rock-’n’-roll apparently both salt and
fresh waters released their amphibious
sylphs with a spontaneity only equalled
by the descent from the mountains and
trees of oreads and dryads terpsichore-
bent. For those who, while singing hymn
No. 160, ponder the difference between
seraphim and cherubim, they top the
celestial hierarchy and respectively rank
as generals and colonels, with ordinary
angels about lance-corp. status.
DENTISTS v. MECHANICS
“Secretary of the Dental Technicians’
Association of N. S. Wales, Mr. Cruden, said
a scheme by which dental technicians were
licensed to work on their own would work
as well in N. S. Wales as in Tasmania.
Dental technicians want to get
Status as landlords, not as boarders,
Feeling they’ll fit the upper set
As snugly as the lower orders.
The dentists’ great humanity,
Their love of justice and of truth,
Prevent their seeing eye to eye
With this demand for tooth for tooth :
They drug the frightened patient’s shout,
They lay him quaking on the rack,
They take his tops and bottoms out,
And they, they feel, should put them
back.
Mechanics, just as staunch and true
According to some intercessions,
Have nothing to be faithful to
If not their own, first-hand, impressions.
Mechanics argue, dentists curse ;
They both, they say, are on the make ;
Meanwhile their hydra-headed purse
Yawns for the game of put-and-take.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T am delighted to note that Mr.
B. S. Naidu, Director of Agricul-
ture in Madras State, has achieved out-
standing results by giving plants musical
stimulation. These tidings might give
the impression that the Indian experi-
menter was the first in this field. Not so.
Modestly l claim some noteworthy
results: One bed of my pansies responded
wonderfully to a Liberace record ; a
silvery Irish tenor singing “Mother Mac-
hree” caused a laggard lot of spuds to
dry their eyes and go for their life, per-
haps in a fierce effort to get as far away
from it as they could ; every time I
played a dance-tune the wallflowers in-
variably got a little bolder. After an
extended session of Elvis Presley the
rockmelons really got in the groove and
dragged their vines around. Love-music,
1 found, would bring all the gooseberries
out quickly. Blues-music, however,
always brought an apt response from the
raspberries. 1 had to abandon the experi-
ments after one of those ads came on
howled in disharmony by a bunch of
saw-voiced females. The whole damn’
garden wilted overnight.—“ Bo.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Elanora”: The dailies record that a
British postmaster had written to head-
office in verse and had received a reply
in the same strain. There's nothing new
in that. Sixty years ago there was a
stationmaster named Molyneux who
fancied himself as a poet, but if corned-
beef had been the prize for poetry he
wouldn’t have got the string. One day he
wanted some wagon-returns, so he wrote:
“My heart aches, my bosom burns, for
Heaven’s sake, send me some wagon-
returns.” Hard-hearted officialdom told
him to cut out the poetry and to use
prescribed terminology, and in any case,
what had he done with the wagon-returns
that had been sent to him? He answered :
“Guards are careless as you know, yours
for ever, Molyneux.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pip Tok”: A Swan River vigneron
who’d suffered crop-losses through
adverse weather sought temporary
employment from a Government Depart-
ment in Perth to tide him over the lean
weeks. The form he was asked to fill-in
posed the question: “Have you had
any police-court convictions? If so,
give details.” The applicant replied
with the simple word, “No." This
didn’t satisfy the budding bureaucrat who
was interviewing him ; he insisted on
the applicant crossing-out “No" and
substituting “Nil.”
* * ❖
“Maitri”: A couple of years ago a
woman friend bought a home-unit high
up in a tall block on a Sydney Harbor
headland. Seated in her lounge-room,
you can imagine you're sitting on ship-
deck with the Harbor lapping beneath
and a magnificent view of the Pacific
through the Heads. She’s been just a bit
conscience-stricken because she knows
the building blocks view and sunshine
from dozens of lowlier homes in the
"I'm sure you Wont regret the hundred guineas. As I always say, ‘ A
thing of beauty is a joy for ever.'"
neighborhood, but now she’s got some-
thing else to worry about. An even larger
block of units has started to rise between
her place and the Harbor: before long
she’ll be gazing at the back-walls of other
lounge-rooms whose owners will enjoy
an unobstructed vista of sea and sky.
♦J* ♦J*
“Judee”: A Sydney milk-vendor heard
there was to be a Boy Scout jamboree
in Australia at the end of the year. He
called on the State secretary of the Boy
Scouts’ Association (Mr. G. Stoddart) —
one of his customers —and, willing to
help the cause, offered to provide the
milk. The secretary, slightly taken aback,
asked: “Are you sure you can do it?”
Getting an assurance, he said. “Well, for
the first morning we’ll need 15,000 half-
pint bottles, and then” —“Er, hold on,”
said the milk-oh, rubbing his chin, “I
think you’d better phone the milk com-
pany.”
* * *
“P.0.M.C.” : Queen’s Birthday Honors
list chilled a Coles-empire chestnut:
that until, like his three brothers, Sir
Arthur Coles was knighted, he regarded
himself as the black-sheep of the family.
* * *
“Rke”: Things women say to each
other in city lifts makes the crush seem
worth it. One called Myrt said to her
pal Agnes, “Flora told me not to show
my ignorance, but as I said, how could
I? I haven’t any to show.” And the
one on the other side of me was giving
her chum a thumbnail portrait of some
dear enemy: “She’s just like that aunt
of mine you’ve never met. You could
recognise her anywhere.” And the chum
got the mental picture right off.
“Ceke”: Son is tractable enough over
etiquette till it touches his TV-viewing ;
then he reckons he gets the raw deal
both home and abroad. When he is
visiting he has to like his hosts’ pro-
gramme, when he is host he has to like
what his visitors want. A hard world
for gentleman-viewers.
<s♦
“A.W.E.”: The girl in the audience
rebuking the actor in “Ben Hur” (B.
8/6/’6O) recalls an incident at a New-
castle (N.S.W.) theatre many years ago
when Allan Wilkie was staging “Othello.”
The lady-in-waiting on Desdemona was
soliloquising on Othello’s manner after
the finding of Desdemona’s ’kerchief, and
finally came to the conclusion that he
must be jealous. A man in the audience
stood up and shouted in a good Scots
voice, “Aye, and you are the cause of
it a’!” Although the audience was
convulsed with laughter the actress
carried on without batting an eyelid.
♦♦+ ♦♦♦
“Renee”: When our amateurs staged
their annual play the curtain went up
on the heroine standing outside french-
doors, which looked very natural until
she folded the cardigan she was holding
and carefully laid it through an imaginary
pane of glass. The Colonel Blimp type
made a magnificent exit, but at the make-
shift step down to floor-level he tipped
the box up, and as he fell nearly came
right through the set, causing a shocking
amount of noise and a picture on the wall
to tilt dangerously, then settle into a
slightly drunken position very s-l-o-w-l-y.
This wouldn’t have been so bad if it
had been a comedy moment, but it was
a highly dramatic one, and the next line,
“Is anything the matter, darling?” spoken


by the femme fatale, was muffled by
hysterical giggling. Things happened
thick and fast after that ; the wronged
wife absolutely refused to believe it was
her cue to go on, and was a couple of
moments late with her entrance, when, to
her opening line, “I’m not late, am I?”
the assembled cast nodded vigorously.
Some joker had put a piece of chalk in
a cigarette-box and the hero nonchal-
antly tried to light it; a door-handle came
off in a hot little hand ; one of the girls
did a quick change and appeared with
2in. of frothy nylon-petticoat showing-
still, everyone agreed that they had had
their money’s worth.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Artie”: On the first night of the
Brisbane power-strike suburbs were
blacked-out during the peak-load period.
After rummaging around Dad found a
“The biggest problem is, Professor, why, at our age, We're still
playing with fireworks!"
stub of candle, a relic of cracker-night.
Lighting it, he placed it on the kitchen
table. As soon as his back was turned,
Sonny, almost three, sang “Happy Birth-
day” and blew the candle out.
* *
“Dud”: The four louts jumped on to
the footboard of the tram as it began
to gather speed and subjected the aging
police-inspector to the insulting “Mug
copper! Mug copper!” As the tram
slowed for the stop, they jumped off and
melted into the darkness. This was the
pattern for three nights but on the fourth
rahl’J wTS w ,h S ?“v CO “ S '
table and told him something. Yes, sir,
leave it to me,” said the constable, who
was an international forward. That
night, reinforced by two others, the louts
made other passengers squirm with the
foulness of their language and at the
stop, with final shouted obscenities,
raced off —right into the arms of the
waiting police.
❖ ❖ »>
“Barra”: Because they live in Easy
Street, Collingwood (Vic.), doesn't mean
the residents are semi-millionaires; it
just means it’s too easy to live in Easy
Street.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Eke”: Girl behind the counter didn’t
have a can of pineapple-pieces, but she
wasted no time in convincing her cus-
tomer (male) that anyone with a knife
and fork could convert a can of pine-
apple-slices into pieces. Customer’s
trouble was he couldn’t sell the idea to
the missus, who sent him straight back
with the slices. Next trouble was he
couldn’t sell the counter lass the idea that
he wanted a refund. Finished-up donat-
ing the slices to a charity stall on the
street corner and forking out 3s. 9d. to
the missus because he couldn’t track-
down a can of pieces and it was her
housekeeping money he had started the
round with,
* ❖ *l*
“Sevenelms" • Notice that an Australian
secretary^h™ beenleco ated Sy HiroiSo
wi ‘h the Order of the Sacred Treasure,
sixth c|ass In 1926 Gertie wheelbarrow,
wife of the Hon. Freddy, financial ad-
viser to Rama VI, was awarded by that
enlightened monarch the Siamese Order
of Fidelity, Second Class. The distaff-
side of the Bangkok foreign circle was
cattily unanimous that she certainly
deserved it.
*l* ♦>
“Sunray”: How often do you hear:
“Better not let Mum read that book, it’s
a bit frank for her” . . . But it did make
Dad sit up when his young daughter
stopped him going outside: “You'd
better not go out just now because the
foreman's bloodying the tractor.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Xpedra”: Advanced education ac-
quired in Son’s first year at High School:
“Never say you slept-in if you’re late ;
you’ll get lines. Better to say your mother
slept-in ; they can’t do anything to her.”
♦> ♦> ♦>
“Sue Ashley”: I was in the boarding-
house lounge girl of about 19
was talking to a boy-friend on the tele-
phone. The conversation, about nothing,
continued for over 20 min., until at last
the girl said: “Well, I think you had
better come around here.” The boy
must have asked why, and she answered,
“Just come round to say ‘Hello’.”
Q.E.D.
“If a low heel is your besetting problem,
wear a high hat and you’ll feel better about
it.” —Fashion note.
From your foot up to your crown,
Counter-balance you must con ;
If a big bust slows you down
You should get a bustle on.
You’ll be right if sporting mink;
But you’ll feel an awful gink
If you insist on making it the habit
Of tinting pink your hare
Every time you have to wear
A stole that’s obviously made of rabbit.
Should your husband come home tight,
He’ll appear much less obtuse
If you greet him with a bright
Smile while wearing something loose.
If you have to do a squeeze
Which results in quite a wheeze,
A too-tight bra won’t seem so stiff a
hurdle
To get over if your waist
Is contentedly encased
In gloriously-yielding, pre -stretched
girdle.
But beware the contrast vast!
Eve , forget the make-believe.
If the lamb-age you’ve long * passed
Skip the leg-o’-mutton sleeve !
But, regarding how to deal
With the problem of low heel.
Why to its easier solving remain
blinded ?
Just forget the tall chapeau
As a remedy, and go
And get another cove that’s higher-
minded !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


'T'here should be more than the
ordinary cackling in Sydney in
August, during the first World Poultry
Congress to be held in Australia. The
congress, the 12th, will be brooding from
August 13 to 18. The Federal Govern-
ment is providing a nest-egg, and the
usual hectic plans are being made for
entertainment, accommodation, transport,
scientific programmes, publicity and print-
ing and exhibitions. There's no sugges-
tion that eggs will be any cheaper.—-
“Stromlo.”
❖ ❖ *
“The Boomer”: I have played against
two bowlers named Swan and in each
case that was his insignia. H. A. Towns
had a tophat ; G. Griffith, a horse’s head
(G.G.); Drake obvious, of course ; Far-
thing, |d.
❖* x *
“Bond”: Has any family a watch
older than the one recently repaired and
put into good working-order by a Sydney
firm of watchmakers? Despite that it
was made in 1841 the mechanism, etc.,
was found to be in first-class condition
and looks good for many more years of
ticking.
❖ *X* *X*
“Ceg”: Weighing sovereigns into
canvas-bags (B. 9/3/’6O) didn't always
ensure that the weight of 100 sovs. filled
the bag with 100 coins. A cunning little
practice known as “clipping” used to be
indulged in ; the Celestials got most of the
blame for it. A painstaking operator
niching just a small piece off every coin
on which he could lay his hands found
it well worth the trouble and not so back-
breaking as fossicking in gullies with
spade and dish. 1 have also heard of
sovereigns being “sweated,” but what that
operation consisted of 1 don’t know.
❖ * *
“J.A.C.”: At a canteen attached to a
big munitions factory in Kent during the
1914 war ; about 3.30 a.m., when staff and
night-shift customers were only half-
awake ... A thick mug of tea cost Id. in
those days; for 3d. you could get a cup
with a couple of biscuits in the saucer,
served over the counter by a rather prim
dame wearing rimless glasses. A bloke
with a classical square, toby-jug face who
had just taken delivery of a mug sud-
denly piped-up, “Eh, missus, me moog’s
leakin’,” and held up his cracked mug of
tea. The rimless glasses and customers
gazed without interest at the defective
mug. Square-face inquired impatiently
of rimless glasses, “Can’t you lend us a
saucer, missus?” Without pausing more
than a second in arranging mugs, cups,
saucers and biscuits, the rimless glasses,
in the musical, rather sing-song tone of
Kent, stated, “We have no saucers for
mugs.” My mouthful exploded in the
mug, and every face round the counter,
including rimless glasses, regarded me
with the utmost gravity. As I crept out
into the cold and darkness wiping tea
out of my eyebrows I caught the explana-
tion offered by square-face of the
cracked mug: “He’s one of them blinkin’
Orstrylians, ain’t he?”
“Maitri”: Bumped into an old friend
the other day who, 40 years ago, was a
fellow-pupil of mine when we studied
under a well-known professor of music.
Nostalgically he reminisced: “D’you
remember how he was always trying to
give-up smoking and how we’d never get
through a lesson without him sitting-up
and begging for a cigarette?” I had
vivid recollections of the same. “Well,”
he went on, “he’s still going strong.
My grandson's learning from him now
"Who fed the lions ?”
and tells me the old boy’s still trying
to give ’em away and still on the
hum.”
♦> *X* *X*
“Rangadangdo”: During a spell in
the United States my wife and 1 were
intrigued by tales of the villainous role
played by “the British’’ in early American
history, relayed home by our schoolboy
son: how “the British” were surprised
at Trenton, how “the British” surrendered
at Saratoga,, how “the British” burnt
“our” crops and buildings in New
Jersey, and so on. After a loud explosion
in the neighborhood our youngest came
scampering inside from her toys, slammed
the front-door behind her, and shouted:
“Look out, here come the British!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Twotone”: Among the first in our
town to seek the companionship of TV
was an elderly widow; without TV-
neighbors to advise her better, she turned
her homette into a miniature picture-
theatre, blinds and heavy curtains across
all windows, and cardboard sticky-taped
to fanlights. Before long she realised
what everyone knows now, that to sit for
long periods in front of the dazzling TV-
screen in a pitch-black room hurts the
eyes. Advice from more recent acquirers,
to let in a little daylight or keep a small
lamp burning in the room, fell on deaf
ears. She still sits, for most of her wak-
ing hours, in her stygian abode, watching
the shining gangsters through dark sun-
glasses.
* ❖ *
“R ose Flo”: “865” and “Flo” (B
8/6/ 60) brought to mind the last time
I ever owned a sovereign. We were
in the hotel business about 1917, when
they were beginning to be scarce, and as
sovs. came into the bar I began to save
them up until I had 24. Then they were
beginning to be few and far between.
I had them with me when I came to
Sydney for a holiday, but unlike “865”
and “Flo” I had quite a spree; went
mad in Farmer's and bought several
things I did really need but didn’t think
I could afford. When I handed them over
in payment, the girl looked hard at me
and then went into a huddle with a
floor-walker, who promptly disappeared
with my sovereigns. Came back pre-
sently all smiles, and I collected my
parcels and change. Now, how was I to
know they were going to become so high-
priced? I haven’t seen one since, much
less owned one. I reasoned they were
only worth £1 anyway, so why hoard
them? But I often think of those 24
yellow-boys and mourn.
❖ *X* *x*
“Tekma”: Melbourne columnist’s
story of the new stenographer who asked
her boss if he wanted the carbon-copies,
as well as the original letter, in double-
spacing reminds me of a section-manager
in a big pastoral firm’s office in Bourke
Street who handed a typist a longhand
draft, remarking, “Four carbon-copies,
please, Miss So-and-So.” He got them.
The original for his signature? “Oh, I
destroyed that,” the girl said.


POLITICAL POINTS
MOTORS-GOLDEN.
•. •
Armed with maps and documents a
team of Indian External Affairs officials
has gone to Peking to discuss the Sino-
Indian frontier dispute. Meanwhile large
Chinese forces are still squatting well
inside India’s northern frontier and their
arms aren’t confined to maps and
documents.
• •
Hollis, president of the Dental Prac-
titioners’ Security Group, alleges that
some years ago Sydney dentists contri-
buted to a fund which they were told was
paid to politicians to prevent licensing of
dental mechanics —the mechanics having
previously paid-out funds to secure the
licensing. Politicians have been quick to
hurl the accusation back in his dentures.
• •
Somewhere east of Suez, and about
years afterwards, U.S. foreign policy
has been brought face-to-face with the
facts of Afro-Asian political life.
• •
Bendigo Liberals are again pinning
their by-election hopes on H. W. Snell,
a former mayor of the city, who ran
Percy Clarey to within 266 votes at the
last general election. Against him Labor
has chosen 34-year-old footballer Noel
Beaton, who’ll be the only newcomer in
the field—W. F. Drechsler, D.L.P. candi-
date, was also a starter in 1958.
• •
About the only thing appropriate to
their purpose about the leaders of the
Tokyo riots is their description: “Snake-
dancers.”
• •
Calwell told the N.S.W. Labor confer-
ence that the party must beware of
intellectuals and pseudo-intellectuals.
These, he said, were asking Labor to
abandon its socialisation plank. Arthur
seems to have forgotten that it was the
intellectuals, riot the trade-union move-
ment, that founded socialism. J. T.
Sutcliffe’s History of Trade Unionism in
Australia, published in 1921, doesn’t even
mention the word “socialisation.” It was
written just before the 1921 conference
which, under the hypnotic influence of
the Russian Revolution, wrote the sociali-
sation objective into Labor’s platform.
Intellectuals had been preaching
socialism for 40 years before that, while
the trade-unions had been concerning
themselves, realistically, with wages and
working conditions.
• •
/Chinese Communists, to show their
annoyance at Eisenhower’s visit to
Formosa, poured nearly 100,000 shells
into the small off-shore islands occupied
by Nationalist Chinese. Their bag was
mostly of civilians. Peace and the tender-
ness of Communism for mankind —
they’re wonderful!
• w
Expressions of conflicting opinions
from the R.C. hierarchies in N. S. Wales
and Victoria, including (1) Bishop Fox’s
statement that “no Catholic with a clear
conscience could vote for the A.L.P.,” (2)
Archbishop Mannix’s general support of
Bishop Fox and (3) Dr.
Rumble’s statement that in the
absence of any change, Car-
dinal Gilroy’s directive that
Catholics were free to vote for
any other party than Com-
munists still stood, really left
adherents in the two States no
clearer than before as to their
duty.
During the course of the
controversy, however, it was
made clear that not merely
individual but sections of
articulate and literate Catholics
in Melbourne were disturbed
by the row, which they con-
sidered could only weaken the
non-Communist front by driv-
ing anti-clerics into a voting
demonstration.
• •
Melbourne hotel - keepers
complain they can make no
headway with Reg Fogarty,
g.-m. of Carlton and United
Breweries, in their efforts to
improve their bus'ness earn-
ings. They’ve asked Carlton
directors to agree to higher
beer-prices and say they’ll ask
Bolte to intervene, possibly
with an inquiry, if they can’t
get better terms. Bolte isn’t
interested. Moreover, it’s re-
ported that Commonwealth
Treasurer Holt is getting ready
to swoop again.
Whatever can be said of Japanese
Prime Minister Kishi, it took consider-
able courage to put off the visit of Presi-
dent Eisenhower under duress of a
hysterical mob. However, he can con-
gratulate himself —a generation ago there
would have been nothing left to him but
hara-kiri. Now he may even have a
chance to come back to power, for he
is determined and able. He put the
Security Treaty through notwithstanding
that the mob by force prevented the
Upper House from voting on it.
From “Illawarra Mercury,” June 8:
S. Coast Branch Secretary of the
Miners’ Federation, W. A. Marshall,
said: “All miners had been advised to
hold meetings to decide appropriate action
to support milk-carters and seamen on
strike.” Corrimal miners decided to hold
a 24-hour stoppage the same day.
That day, before Mr. Justice
Gallagher:
Mr. Wybrow (to Mr. Mahon, General
Secretary* Mine>rs’ Federation) : If the
strikes ...... in sympathy with the fire-
men, seamen and milk-carters are organ-
ised, they are not organised by the Miners’
Federation .... You disclaim all know-
ledge of it?
Mr. Mahon: This is spontaneous action
on tlie part of the rank-and-file. I cer-
tainly do.
• •
N. S. Wales A.L.P. conference didn’t
get around to discussing its sub-
committee’s report on Greater Sydney
and amalgamation of councils. From its
position far down on the agenda it doesn’t
look as if there was any intention of dis-
cussing it —far better to leave it to the
N.S.W. DENTURE DILEMMA
new-old executive to hammer away at
Heffron for an early implementation of
the 1959 conference decision on the
subject. This called for the slaughter of
the councils before the end of the present
Parliament.
• •
Tf the Dental Mechanics Bill goes
through in N.S.W. we may expect a
new form of snobbery—a distinction
between the wearers of dentures and those
who merely have false teeth.


A ccording to Alderman Roper the
Sydney suburb of Paddington, about
to celebrate the centenary of its inaugura-
tion as a. municipality, “has a very
colorful history, punctured by many great
figures such as Victor Trumper.” But
despite the punctures it wasn’t really
deflated until the Sydney City Council
absorbed it 10 years ago.
0 0
Alan Roy Fletcher, C.P. member for
Cunningham in the Queensland
Assembly, was elected to the Queens-
land Cabinet last Wednesday and was
sworn-in as Minister for Lands and
Irrigation in succession to A. G. Muller.
Fletcher's place as Speaker will be taken
by Nicholson, C.P. member for Mur-
rumba.
0 0
At its annual conference the S.A.
branch of the A.L.P. made several
changes in its State electoral policy. It
now advocates preferential-voting and
single-member electorates (previously the
platform provided for proportional repre-
sentation and five-member electorates);
adult-suffrage for the Legislative Council,
pending its abolition ; a larger House of
Assembly—-56 members instead of 39.
While the Adelaide Laborites were
deciding upon these changes their Mel-
bourne colleagues were turning their
backs on preferential-voting and resolv-
ing to ask the Federal A.L.P. conference
to work for its abolition and a return to
first-past-the-post. The obvious intention
of the move is to nullify the D.L.P.
vote.
0 0
New Zealand Labor seems to be losing
its grip on Maori electors, most of whom
were bitter when the Prime Minister,
Walter Nash, took the portfolio of Maori
Affairs himself, and refused on most of
his jaunts overseas to make the Maori
leader, E. T. Tirikatene, Acting-Minister.
On his latest trip, with an election not
far off, he did appoint Tirikatene, but
this-came too late to impress either the
Acting-Minister himself or the Maoris
generally.
0 0
A motion seeking five days’ sick-leave
without a doctor’s certificate, instead of
the present two days’, came up at the
annual conference of the Vic. Public
Service Association. One member
shocked delegates by suggesting this
would help malingerers, and president
Rogan said he resented the suggestion
that any member of the P.S. was a
malingerer. Thus heartened, the confer-
ence passed the motion by a great
majority.
0 0
Left-wingers -at the A.L.P. conference
in Sydney attacked Australian links
with the United States and said America
was trying to turn Australia into “another
banana State,” but they advocated closer
co-operation with Red China. Appar-
ently they’ve no objection to Australia
becoming a dim-sim State.
Moscow has announced that it will
hold the trial of Powers, the U 2 captive,
early next month. The atmosphere will
be reminiscent of the Roman arenas of
imperial days. Diplomats, tourists and
the world’s press have been invited, and
every effort is being made to entice
Powers's family to Moscow for the show,
which seems to render it an even bet
that by duress and guile the Kremlin
will go the limit to persuade the wretched
pilot to betray his country to make a
Moscow holiday and a Communist
triumph.
• 9
“Collins Street”: The muddle that clogs
both Labor parties in Victoria is
emphasised by the fate of the D.L.P.
University Society, which altered its rules
to provide that neither its office-bearers
nor members need be members of the
D.L.P. In consequence it was either
expelled from the D.L.P. or excluded
itself —according to which viewpoint one
accepts.
Apparently the academic group wished
to take only a dilettante responsibility
politically but to horn-in with motions
at the annual conference. The result of
the bust-up is that the D.L.P. has lost
Speirs, its chosen candidate for the State
seat of Mulgrave ; but there is no doubt
the Liberals or A.L.P. would have done
the same if confronted by a proposition
so unrealistic.
• «
Tncluding travelling expenses and the
salary of his sit-in, the inquiry over-
seas by Judge Fraser of the Victorian
Licensing Court cost £3126 4s. lOd. The
Bolte Government squibbed on his
recommendation for later trading-hours,
but put through a small reform bill
liberalising club and restaurant liquor-
service. The Government can fairly
claim that although it felt compelled to
write-off the £3OOO-worth of advice, it
got value for the £126 4s. lOd.
0 0
Classes in English are being arranged
by B.H.P. for Greek migrant employees
at Newcastle steelworks. The plan is
part of a safety campaign, and if it works
well with the Greeks it will be extended
to workmen of other nationalities. Seems
a sound idea —so sound, in fact, that its a
wonder it had to wait 10 years to be
tried-out.
0 0
Representatives of Randwick, Waverley
and Woollahra councils decided at a
joint meeting last week to ask N.S.W.
Local Government Minister Hills to make
a public statement on the Government’s
intentions regarding proposals to absorb
suburban municipalities into the Sydney
City Council. The Mayor of Randwick
read a reply his council had received
from Hills to its request for clarification
on this matter. The Minister had advised
them to defer consideration of proposed
amalgamations until the Government
“made a detailed and accurate statement
regarding its policy.”
An accurate statement is just what the
councils want, but it is just what they've
so far been unable to get. Every Labor
alderman in Sydney seems confident that
plans for amalgamation are all cut and
dried. If this is so, why haven't Heffron
and Hills the courage to say so?
• •
A gleam of light seems to have fallen
on Washington. Secretary of State
Herter has discovered that Foreign
Secretaries should stay at home more and
delegate more of their work to subordi-
nates. It would certainly stop a lot of
exhibitionism and quarrelling at high
levels.
• 9
“Mugga Way”: As the cadet-reporter
wrote, “capital-punishment is still a live
subject.” ‘ It was, in fact, one of the
major topics at a U.N. seminar in Tokyo
on the role of criminal law in the pro-
tection of human rights; most partici-
pants were agreed on the desirability of
gradually limiting capital-punishment and
eventually abolishing it. It was agreed
that persons under 18 should never be
executed, and that each nation should
decide on the issue of capital-punishment
in the light of its own social conditions.
• 0
Vic. Housing Commission, never con-
spicuously successful in public relations,
made another blunder in decreeing that
tenants must get rid of their pets. This
led to understandable cries of protest
from people about to be deprived of their
cats and budgerigars. Housing Minister
Petty investigated the caterwauling and
came-up with the explanation, which
should have been given originally.
The commission’s inspectors had
found among the pets a horse living in a
spare bedroom, 200 budgies caged in a
communal laundry, 300 in another unit,
ferrets, dogs in children’s playgrounds,
a cockatoo on a clothesline and a
ferocious dog chained to a landing.
• •
Fiji is facing a threat to its economy
and to the livelihood of 20 per cent, of
the population through the failure of the
C.S.R. and canegrowers’ associations to
agree on terms for renewing the 10-year
agreement between producers and millers.
With cane unharvested and a complete
deadlock it’s a black outlook for 12,500
cane-farmers, mostly Indians and
stubborn—-and for Fiji.
• •
[From Canberra]
It is too early yet to forecast Budget
contents, but straws in the wind indicate
that Cabinet will have little scope for tax-
cuts.
Treasurer Holt is determined to balance
his second Budget, but to do so will
take some financial juggling.
The Government will try very hard to
grant some relief to companies, either
by way of increased depreciation-allow-
ances or some slight tax relief to enable
them to cut costs and seek greater export
outlets, but there'll be virtually no relief
for the average wage-earner.
Cabinet will settle down to the Budget
chores early next month, when the P.M.
will take over again.


Personal
ITEMS
Birthday Honors:
Viscount:
Field-Marshal Sir William Slim, K.G., G.C.8.,
G.C.M.G., G.C.V.0., G.8.E., D. 5.0., M.C.,
Governor-General of Australia from 1953 to
1959.
K.C.M.G.:
Eruera Tihema Tirikatene, N.Z. Minister ot
Forests and Associate Minister for Maori
Affairs.
K.8.E.:
Brigadier Kenneth Agnew Wills, C.8.E.,
councillor of Adelaide University and chairman
of the S.A. Recruiting Committee.
Vice-Admiral Henry Mackay Burrell, C. 8.,
C.8.E., First Naval Member and Chief of
Naval Staff. «
Kt.:
John William Ashton, 0.8. E., of Mosman
(Sydney), chairman of the Commonwealth
Art Advisory Board since 1952 and former
director of the N.S.W. National Art Gallery.
Arthur William Coles, former Lord Mayor
of Melbourne and M.H.R. for Henty (Vic.)
from 1940 to 1946.
Mr. Justice Arthur Dean, of the Victorian
Supreme Court, Chancellor of Melbourne
University since 1954.
Ferdinand Caire Drew, C.M.G., former
S.A. Under-Treasurer and chairman of the
State Grants Committee.
Lawrence Percival Gadsdon, of Perth,
Mayor of Cottesloe for the last 14 years.
James Arthur Holt, former Co-ordinator-
General of Public Works in Queensland.
Cecil Harold Hoskins, of Moss Vale
(N.S.W.), ironmaster and chairman of the
A.M.P. Society, Sydney.
Francis Anthony Meere, C.B.E;, Comptroller-
General of Customs since 1952,
Dr. George Douglas Robb, of Auckland
(N.Z.), consulting-surgeon.
Professor Robert Dickie Watt, for 36 years
Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture at Sydney
University until he retired in 1946.
• •
“P.A.L.”: Honored in the Birthday
List, Eruera T. Tirikatene, N.Z. Minister
of Forests and fifth Maori to receive a
knighthood, is a man of many parts —
farmer, soldier, engineer and politician.
The other N.Z. knighthood in the list
went to “blue-baby” surgeon Douglas
Robb, of Green Lane Hospital, Fellow
of the American College of Surgeons and
Pro-Chancellor of Auckland Llniversity.
Also in the list, C.M.G.s for Labor
stalwart Bob McKeen and G. Manning,
Mayor of Christchurch, and M.B.E.s for
Donald Munro (founder of the N.Z.
Opera Co,), H. Te K. Taiapa (Maori
wood-carver) and W. H. Bowen, of the
Wool Board. Among the 0.8.E.s I
picked out the name of Harry Tombs,
well-known printer and promoter of art
and music.
• •
Lawrence Percival Gadsdon, of Perth,
who was knighted in the Birthday
Honors, came to Australia from England
in 1911 and lived for a time in Bayswater
(W.A.) before settling in Cottesloe, where
he has been mayor for 14 years. He
enlisted in the A.I.F. at 18, was wounded
on Gallipoli, invalided home and dis-
charged, and became the R.S.L.'s first
State secretary and later a vice-president.
Among other activities he has been
metropolitan representative on the W.A.
Fire Brigades Board for seven years, was
a founder of the North Cottesloe Life
Saving Club and helped to establish the
Cottesloe Civic Centre, and to prepare a
town-planning scheme for the district.
• •
A Maorilander who has lived for 25
years in Australia, Dudley Pilcher is
director of the Petroleum Information
PUBLIC RELATIONS
Bureau (Australia), which has lately
established an Oil Information Centre in
Sydney as part of a chain of such infor-
mation-offices through the Common-
wealth. Born in Wellington, he began his
journalistic career on the “Dominion,”
came to Australia and joined Melbourne
“Argus” as financial editor in 1938, and
then became one of Sir Douglas Cop-
land’s Canberra team of economic
experts on price-control during the war.
Afterwards he went to the U.N. at Lake
Success and worked there as a senior
editor of publications. He took charge
of the oil-industry’s p.-r. organisation in
1954.
• •
There is a lot of Irish charm in all the
Lindsays—which they must have picked-
up in the centuries when the clan were
linen-merchants in Belfast —and Ray
Lindsay, Norman’s second son, who has
died in Sydney at 56, had the full mea-
sure of it. Everybody liked Ray, as every-
body liked his uncle Percy (if you could
imagine Percy being an uncle), and
everybody in bohemian circles around the
town will miss his cheery, rubicund face.
It might have been the Irish in him, too —
the more industrious members of the
family inherited the missionary spirit
from Grandfather Williams, who con-
verted the cannibals in Fiji—that gave
him a certain fecklessness. He had a
genuine talent for painting, made a
special place for himself with Australian
historical subjects, but never really ful-
filled himself.
• •
“Derwent”: Still going strong at
Levendale (Tas.), 94-vear-old Alfred
Daniels is believed to be the oldest
survivor of Tasmania’s Imperial Bush-
men’s Contingent, which served in the
Boer War. A gun shearer in earlier days,
he hasn’t forgotten the art of blade-
shearing ; a short while before his last
birthday he took the fleeces off eight
woollies. Members of the family are long
lived ; his father (who helped to build the
historic bridge at Richmond in the
Midlands) reached the age of 104.
• •
“Emma Don”: Dedicated early this
month, a brass reading-lamp for the
pulpit of the R.A.A.F. chapel at Rich-
mond (N.S.W.) honors the memory of
Wing-Commander John A. D. Campbell,
who had held O.C. at both
Richmond and Amberley (Q.). In all
he served over 33 years with the
R.A.A.F., passing on in Brisbane last
October. He was responsible for direct-
ing the search-party which found the
bodies of Anderson and Hitchcock in the
Stoney Desert, after they had lost thoir
lives in the search for Kingsford Smith.
• e
At the athletic match between Aus-
tralian and New Zealand universities in
Sydney the g.o.m. of university athletics,
Professor Harvey Sutton, was introduced
to each team. Sydney solicitor Keith
Donald recalled that Harvey Sutton first
ran on the University Oval 56 years ago.
An Australian rep. in the 1904 Olympic
Games. Professor Sutton maintains a
keen interest as a unanimously respected
member of the council controlling Aus-
tralian university sport.
• •
Usually the V.R.C. secretaryship is a
keenly sought job with the odds known
about prominent candidates for a week
or two, but the appointment of Leon
Lachal last week was preceded from the
day the announcement of Keith
Morrison’s resignation was known by
paragraphs by well-informed racing
writers tipping him and club gossip by
his former friends in the R.A.A.F. on
what a winner he would be in the job.
The job carries more prestige than
pay, and Leon Lachal, whose friends
call him Snow, must begin organising
at once for the enormous meeting
expected in November when the £25,000
Centenary Melbourne Cup will be run,
and, more importantly, really, for the
operation of the off-course tote in
Victoria.
He was a Hawthorn boy, went to next-
door Xavier College, became an R.A.A.F.
cadet in 1926 and retired, air-commodore,
in 1945. His secretaryship of the Sydney
Turf Club for the last 13 years, especially


his elimination of some of the stuffier
traditions, has been long admired in
Melbourne.
0 0
Anthony E. Evans, who sold a 5000-
acre sheep- and cereal-farm in Kenya
before deciding to migrate to Australia,
says that many Europeans plan to follow
his example, because of increasing
political tension. Though, he says, it
took five years and £33 million to quell
the Mau Mau terrorists, this did white
settlers no good, since the Mau Maus
were merely driven underground and
subversive activity is getting stronger all
the time.
0 0
Born at Toowong, Brisbane, in 1891,
Arthur Appleton Jackson (here sketched)
was one of the first holders of the
Queensland University diploma in
mechanical and electrical engineering.
After some years of engineering in
England he returned to work with several
leading electrical firms and with the Bris-
bane Tramways, before he joined
the Synchronome Electrical Co. and
in 1937 became its managing-director.
(Many of the largest public clocks in
Australia—the Brisbane City Hall clock,
the Automata clock in London Court,
Perth, and others at Sydney University
and elsewhere —were designed and built
by this firm.)
Member of the Chamber of Manu-
facturers, past-president of the Elecjrical
and Radio Federation of Queensland
and of Brisbane Rotary, A. A. Jackson
is a keen experimenter with wireless and
was jointly responsible for the design
and building of stations 4AE and 4WI,
which were among the few regular
amateur broadcasting - stations before
4QG came on to the scene. His main
outside interest, though, is the Boy Scout
movement, with which he has been con-
nected for about 40 years —State Chief
Commissioner for 15 years. He led the
Queensland contingents to three post-
ELECTRICITY; SCOUTING
war Pan-Pacific Jamborees and the Aus-
tralian party to the 10th World Jam-
boree in Manila and to the 2nd relational
Jamboree in Japan. Awarded the C.B.E.
last year.
“Keima”: Robert Smith, 23-year-old
organist and choirmaster of St. Saviour’s
C. of E. Cathedral, Goulburn (N.S.W.),
has been admitted a Fellow of the Trinity
College of Music, London. The Fellow-
ship diploma is the highest award made
by the Trinity College and, apart from
the Sydney Conservatorium diploma, the
highest practical music award available
in Australia—Smith won the Conserva-
torium diploma in 1956. Five or six years
back he was a choirboy at St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, Sydney, a fellow-choirboy
being “S. M. Herald” and former
Bulletin music critic —and organist
himself —Adrian Wintle.
• •
“Maitri”: To Alfred Hill —who, at 90,
was awarded the C.M.G. in the Birthday
Honors —many composers of note owe
their knowledge of harmony and counter-
point. The practical grounding he gave
them at the N:S.W. State Conservatorium
and elsewhere was unquestionably inspiring,
though perhaps there never was a more practical
teacher or one so impatient with academic
methods. Hill’s music (and, usually, that of
his pupils) is full of melody. He believes
that audiences don’t really want to be stag-
gered by the cleverness of a work, but simply
to enjoy the music.
Many years ago one of Hill’s pupils com-
posed a song for me and took me along
to sing it at the master’s studio. The song
was based on a philosophical theme and, as 1
sang, I did what I could to preserve its sense
of remoteness. But Hill was not impressed,
and said (in effect): “The public is human
and wants to be warmed, touched, moved.
It doesn't want to feel it is being frozen by
an iceberg or whirling among the stars. Try
it over again and bring it down to earth
this time.” It was a valuable lesson I never
forgot: elevated sentiments don't have to be
colorless. Warmth and humanity are con-
spicuous in Hill’s compositions, whether they
are Maori melodies or his more massive
works—the symphonies, “Hinemoa,” “The
Moorish Maid,” “Auster,” and the trumpet
sonata.
• «
“Joanne”: When Fred Grahame,
just retired as chief train-control officer
at Newcastle (N.S.W.), joined the Rail-
ways as a junior-porter at Bullock Island
(Newcastle) in 1908 he began a 52-year
term which probably sets a departmental
record for long service. Fred, the top-
seeded traffic-control officer in N.S.W.,
spent almost all his official life at New-
castle, except for a break at Murrurundi
and another at Werris Creek. In his
salad days he played first-grade Rugby
League and repped for Newcastle against
England, New Zealand and other visiting
teams. Later he became secretary of
Newcastle Rugby League, of which he’s
a life-member.
0 0
“Judee”: Administrators put in by
State Governments to manage munici-
palities or shires whose councils have
fallen down on the job aren’t usually
altogether popular, but there are excep-
tions. K. G. H. Hawkshaw, of the
N.S.W. Local Government Department,
after being Administrator of Shoalhaven
Shire for just over four years, stepped
down recently when a new council was
elected. At a public meeting speakers
from all parts of the shire (it runs from
Nowra south nearly to Bateman’s Bay)
testified to his unbiased fair-dealing and
efficient administration. A tea-and-coffee
service was handed over by the new
president (Cr. F. P. Ryan), an old local-
government man, who said: “I can’t re-
member having heard such eulogistic
remarks being made concerning anyone
in local-government.”
H.J.R. (“DICK”) KNIGHT, lately
appointed South Australian manager of
the National Bank of Australasia, is the
son of a banker and has himself been
with the National in Victoria, N.S.W. and
Westralia, including a 1952-57 term as
assistant-manager of the Sydney head-
office.. His hobby is golf — handicap, he
says, 21.
“Kanimbla”: R. K. Smart, of Camden
(N.S.W.), awarded the degree of Bachelor
of Sacred Theology at Boston University,
is a qualified architect and won a scholar-
ship to that Uni. after youth-work among
colored children and students in Singa-
pore. He intends reading for a doctorate
and then entering the Methodist Church.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 79, A. M. Aylwin, Golds-
brough, Mort’s manager in Westralia for seven
years and in Victoria for 14. In War II he
was chairman of the Victorian State Wool
Committee and of Melbourne Wool Exchange.
At Dawson’s Hill, near Singleton (N.S.W.),
Mrs. Elizabeth Power, believed to have been
the oldest woman in the Hunter River district —
three years over the century.
In Sydney, Gayfield Shaw. He ran one
of Sydney’s earliest art-galleries (where,
incidentally, the Black-and-White Artists’ Club
and the first Artists’ Ball were conceived) and
was himself an etcher, steel-engraver and
connoisseur of book-plates.
In Sydney, at 92, Dr. Cyril Ernest Corlette,
a foundation Fellow of the Royal Australian
College of Surgeons, former honorary-surgeon
to the Sydney Hospital and Balmain Hospital,
leading teacher of surgery and author of
several medical publications.
At Budgewoi (N.S.W.), at 65, Edward Vivian
Timms, historical novelist and original Anzac.
In War II he was commandant of the p.-0.-w.
camp at Cowra (N.S.W.), where the Japs
staged their break-out.
In Adelaide, at 62, John Campbell, loss-
assessor, former editor of the R.A.A. magazine
“Motor” and broadcaster for the A.B.C. He
served with the British Army in War I.


ABORIGINALITIES
A native charged with murder here in
a New Guinea court admitted the
evidence without exception, agreed that
the law demanding a life for a life was
good law according to native custom, and
so if the Judge sentenced him to be
hanged everything was as it should be.
But he had one comment. “What?”
asked the Judge. Replied the native for-
cibly: “Me no like.” —“Casca.”
* ‘ * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Heretofore, had I been
asked to nominate one major project in
the world where work was governed by
nothing but cold, scientific data and
indisputable, practical facts, I would have
unhesitatingly plumped for the Snowy
River Scheme. Painstaking accuracy, not
luck, proved Mount Kosciusko to be a
“You need glasses, mate.”
foot higher than had previously been
believed. It was not idle supposition that
prompted the engineers to design the 30-
mile tunnel-aqueduct with a curve follow-
mg the exact contour of the earth. The
idea of consolidating a lofty but faulty
terrain by freezing it solid and keeping it
that way perpetually in order to form an
unyielding buttress for a dam-wall was
certainly never founded on an old-wives’
tale. Shifting the whole town of,
Adaminaby, including moving a two-
story bank-building bodily, was no piece
of mythical fantasy. And yet the repre-
sentative of the Snowy River Authority
regretfully informed me that, although
all visitors were welcome, women could
on no account be permitted to inspect the
underground works. The taboo springs
from a firmly-established superstition that
whenever a woman enters the under-
ground-workings a man is killed!
* * * *
“Weakstaple”: The shearing - shed
babbler has his utility backed into the
kitchen-doorway. On the tray a one-lung
petrol-engine chugs away to drive his
Mixmaster in the kitchen.
* $ * *
“Inglegar”: Real idea behind black-
cockatoos flying in odd numbers, which
Aboites have noted, is that when they
leave rugged mountain-country, their
natural haunt, to forage for banksia-seeds
and wood-boring grubs, they have the
same idea as two-up players: the odd
cocky to keep nit while they tear into
tree-trunks. Though the big fellows
haven’t been hunted since the day of
black brother heaving spears at them,
old instincts die hard, and one squawk
from the “cocky” puts the foragers to
flight. What has always got me is when
the watcher takes time-off to feed.
“Canis”: The animal that brought the
highest price—£87— at a Balmoral
(Vic.) clearing-sale was a black-and-
white collie] Next best was £B5 for a
polled Hereford bull.
* * m *
“Pip Tok”: Research begun in Wes-
tralia four years ago on the ghost-bat, or
false-vampire, has been carried a step
further by the discovery of about 30 of
them in an abandoned mine at Marble
Bar. This bat, indigenous to Australia,
was first seen by white men in Queensland
in 1880. Scientists then thought the breed
was nearly extinct. One of those found
in the Marble Bar mine-shaft was
trapped by assistant mining-registrar
Denis O'Meara, who rigged a net over
the entrance to the shaft, and wore
leather gloves for protection. Despite
this precaution a finger was badly bitten
by his catch. The specimen caught is
typical of the others seen. It has white
fur, long ears, a face as fearsome as
those seen in nightmares and rogues’
galleries, and a 2ft. wing-span.
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: Shall leave the “Red Page”
comment about “the humpies in the
furtherest, hottest outback, where corru-
gated-iron is still considered a desirable
building - material,” to perish in the
obscurity it deserves (B. 25/ 5/’6O). How-
ever, of the latest banks built in our
neighboring town one has a corrugated-
iron front, another a flat-iron front and
the third a ripple-iron front ... at the
risk of confusion I must state that they
used either chromium-plated steel or
aluminium.
* * *
“Plato Mulligan”: A new Maori story
(a true one) has emerged from the tidal-
wave alert of last month. When the warn-
ing came through Hori was having a
few beers at a Whakatane hotel. Dredg-
ing his drink in a hurry, he ordered
another, and, leaving it on the counter,
said he’d be back in a jiffy. “She’ll be
o.k. now,” he announced as he returned
a few minutes later. “What’ll be 0.k.?”
inquired the barman. “The old bus,”
replied Hori. “Just tied him by the
bumper to a telegraph-pole. He won’t
get washed away now.”
* * * *
“Blank File”: Towards the end of
Stoush II a party of us were stationed in
the Admiralty Islands assisting the Yanks
to clean-up. We knew there were small
pockets of Japs in the smaller islands,
and to assist in clearing them out Air
Force H.Q. offered a fiver to the natives
for each Japanese they captured. One
morning we saw a canoe approaching
from one of these small islands ; from it
the natives lifted a Jap soldier somewhat
the worse for wear and neatly trussed by
hands and feet to a pole like a pig. They
carried the Jap to the ’drome and de-
livered him to H.Q., where they received
the fiver promised. Several days later
the same ceremony was repeated, the Jap




being a little more battered about; then,
every several days for about 10 days the
natives brought a Jap and demanded and
received the promised fiver. Then H.Q.
demanded to know just how was it the
natives were bringing in so many Jap
prisoners. The native spokesman said
that some time previously they had
rounded-up a batch of Jap prisoners, but,
fearing that if they brought them in to-
gether they would not receive the money
for each man, they had decided to bring
them over at intervals.
* * * *
“O. K. Lee”: I doubt whether the
newly-formed Cunnamulla Historical
Society will want to incorporate this in
the official history of the district. After
"I fail to see any resembling feature."
one presentation of racing-trophies at
the old Club Hotel an all-male party
decided to continue the celebration at the
old Bowra homestead, to which quickest
access was by boat across the Warrego
River. When one boatload had got on
board, the craft had only about one inch
of freeboard. Most of the crowded
complement were wearing dinner-suits;
a few wore tails. One of the tailbearers,
standing up precariously in the stern,
led one of the younger bucks to remark:
“You look like a bloody magpie!” a
few seconds before he knocked the
standee overboard. The displaced person
responded promptly by grabbing the
gunwale and capsizing the craft, spill-
ing the whole company into the drink.
All survived to carry on the revels in
a spirit not one whit damped by their
dousing. Cunnamulla was like that.
This year’s first frost was particularly
severe, following several days of rain.
Oddest sight was a marooned swallow
which had flown in with wet feathers and
camped on the rafters under the old
veranda-roof. His feathers iced-up and
stuck firmly to the iron, and it was
sun-up before he was able to fly away.—
“Sawtell”
* * * *
' “Sevenelms”: With Westralia’s Acacia
acuminata “Jock” (B. 1/6/’6O) got
bushed in his berries when he mentioned
the jam-tree walking-stick presented to
Lord Balfour. “Raspberry Jam” is
the wood’s official name. George
Bentham, at Kew, classified it in 1877,
Baker in 1906 carefully defined its scent
as “domestic rubus.” No mention any-
where of strawberries ; and the wood is
not exactly new to timbermen, either,
whether Swanside or Thameside. Boulger
recommended it to London cabinetmakers
in 1899, drawing attention to its high pro-
portion of “fiddleback grain.”
* * * *
“Rehab”: Looking over the prospec-
tive meal-tickets at a small central-
western N.S.W. meeting, I happened
to stroll behind the stalls and came on
two characters ministering to their charge.
Operation completed, one Jed the horse
away and the other, with whom I had
a nodding acquaintance, came towards
me. “What’s a good thing?” I asked.
“There’s the winner,” he answered, full
of confidence, dropping the remnant dope
into his pocket and indicating the retreat-
ing nag. Ran into the same mob on
another course. “Anything going today?”
I asked. “Got one entered, but he’s only
in for the run,” they told me. The
jockey brought the horse home with a
length to spare. “Last horse he’ll ever
ride for me\” declared the irate owner.
“The cow’s crooked!”
* * $ *
“RMB”: In days when kangaroo-
tendon sutures were used in almost all
hernia-operations I, too —like the writer
of a recent par. —wondered how they
were obtained. Not, I should think,
from professional shooters—they usually
worked many hundreds of miles from
any manufacturing - chemist, and one
would suppose the tendons would require
treatment promptly after killing in those
days of no refrigerated transport. In-
quiries naturally produced many tall
tales—it’s practically the perfect basis —
but nobody really seemed to know the
answer. There should be no problem
nowadays, with the ever-increasing trade
in ’roo-meat, and with at least one com-
mercial “kangaroo-farm”—at St. George
(Q.). But, in any case, kangaroo-tendon
sutures have been almost entirely super-
seded by synthetics.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: I wasn’t having success
with the traditional building - trade
method of removing a deep splinter that
had gone under a nail —by pinning it
between the nail and a sharp chisel —
when a young chippy chipped in with,
“Try this,” and belted the point of a
light-gauge nail with a hammer. The
blow gives the point a burred edge which
caught onto the splinter and gripped it,
just as the probing point finds the em-
bedded log. You live and learn.
* * * *
Toe. had been working as tractor-driver
J for about three weeks, ploughing breaks
in an isolated section of pine-forest down
in the s.-e. of S.A. —about as out-of-the-
way a spot as you’d come across. The
boss drove him out and back in the
Land/Rover each day, as only a four-
wheel-drive job could get along the track ;
and the boss and Joe were the only ones
who knew exactly where he was plough-
ing. When Joe came back late in the
day I’d just put the truck in the shed
after bringing the other blokes back from
felling pines. Joe and I were next-door
neighbors and we walked home together.
“Struth!” he exclaimed, stopping sud-
denly, “I left me flamin’ watch on the
tractor. See you later, Bill.” He went
like an emu, jumped in his old car, and
chugged off. About two hours later I
heard his car returning and went out to
meet him. Turned ouf he'd driven along
the main road to where the track left
it. Then he walked two miles through
the forest to the tractor, got his watch
and came back home. “Why the panic?”
I asked. “There’s no rain about.”
“Wasn't worried about it getting wet,”
says Bill. “Some cow might’ve pinched
it! ” —“Needles.”


NOTHING MATCHES
TODAY S WONDER FUEL!
r
Boron high-energy fuel is today helping to power
advance-stage missiles through space at fantastic speeds
.. . speeds of more than fifteen times the speed of sound.
In Ampol Boron, this same high-energy element will
dramatically increase power and mileage in your carl
Ampol is the only petrol that gives you Boron.
Ampol Boron is an entirely NEW petrol. Fill your
tank and prove for yourself that your best buy is
Ampol Boron.
Boron high-energy fuels will power missiles and
Super-Jets of today and tomorrow to almost unbe-
lievable speeds!
• New Power! • New Smoothness!i
• New Pick-up !• Better Mileage !\
Q3MAAO
tdjwb


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. TTequhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
IIWBI7I <a lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX: 1 Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Bring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Unwar, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
DEVELOPMENT AND SPECULATION
A n interesting (and possibly
profitable) exercise is to
try to separate productive and
developmental factors from
the purely speculative in the
current Australian scene.
On the Stock Exchange it
will be found that the specula-
tive factor is mostly away ahead
of the productive and develop-
mental. And the same situa-
tion is developing in the real-
estate market.
Since 1951 it can be said that
speculative activity cm the
grand scale has run through in-
dustrial shares, then through
oils, uranium, rutile, h.-p. and
now industrials again, with
real-estate billowing-up on a
scale not seen for seventy years.
In most cases speculative
interest has run ahead of
development and exceeded the
profit-earning potential of the
industry concerned. This has
naturally been most true of the
mining booms. Today' only
four or five of the former
glamor-stocks of the oil-share
list are above par, and in the
uranium section the position is
no better. In the rutile section
the position is more favorable
because of our world domin-
ance in titanium minerals.
During the oil-share boom
cynics were in the habit of
remarking that the worst thing,
from the sharemarket point of
view, that an oil-company could
do was to sink a bore, because
it always brought disillusion-
ment. Better to live in hope
than to be brought face-to-face
with underground reality.
'T'he position with industrial
shares is not so clear-cut
or suddenly dramatic. Most in-
dustrial shares in Australia have
a solid business represented by
them —a business based on the
economic needs of the com-
munity.
These businesses will go on,
in most cases, after many
mining ventures are just a hole
in the ground. They will grow
as the country grows in popu-
lation and consumer-demand.
But these same good-quality
ordinary shares in recent years
tend to have a gambling
element attached to them in
much the same fashion as the
mining shares became gambling
counters. In the case of in-
dustrial equities the gambling
element is associated with the
“This sure has speeded-up the getaway !”
top half of the price paid for
the shares, not the bottom half.
In other words, most industrial
equities have an almost per-
manent value, but not often the
full value set on them by a
speculative sharemarket.
While production figures
issued by Canberra recently
show most industries to be
faring well, they do not indicate
that prices for many shares at
present are justified. Market
prices as a whole have far out-
stripped productivity and profit-
earning, and a reasonable in-
come from equity-share invest-
ments is very hard to find. In
the circumstances the “market-
increment” factor which so
many people seek in lieu of a
reasonable dividend - income
could be a delusion and a trap.
A good index of the extent
to which speculation has en-
tered info the sharemarkets’
assessment of ordinary-share
prospects is the ratio of earn-
ings to market-value in different
cases. For example, a com-
pany disclosing earnings equal
to 30 p.c. on its £1 shares would
show, an earnings-to-market-
value ratio of 6 p.c. if those
shares went to £5 on the
market. In such a case the
immediate yield from the stock
would be probably 3 p.c. or
less, as many good-class stocks
distribute only about half their
disclosed profits in dividends.
An earnings-to-price yield of
5 p.c.-6 p.c. is quite common
among good-class stock today.
A couple of years ago 8 p.c.-
10 p.c. would have been re-
quired in most similar cases.
The earnings-to-price ratio
is valuable inasmuch as it takes
changes in both profits and
price into account. Today, in
general, an average earnings-
price ratio would indicate that
share-prices have risen much
more steeply than company
profits.
A lthough there is a boom in
shares connected with
building and construction, in
the record year 1959 the num-
ber of new houses and flats
built was 86,548, compared
with 79,927 in 1958. Yet 10
years previously the figure was
around 80,000.
So it can be said that the in-
crease in homebuilding is good,
but by no means dramatic.
Certainly not as dramatic as
the boom in suburban real-
estate would indicate. Much
more dramatic has been the
increase in activity in com-
mercial and industrial build-
ing. This is spectacular now,
and likely to become more so
in Sydney and Melbourne
during the next year or two,
but it will not continue at the
present pace for ever.
A summing-up of the situa-
tion would suggest that Austra-
lia is developing rapidly, that
private and public construction
activity, including new roads
and bridges, is going on at a
brisk pace, but that there are
weaknesses in some of our
primary industries largely be-
cause of rising costs, and that,
overall, intense speculation has
put an excessively optimistic
front on the whole scene.
This speculation is not a
good thing for Australian
development. A buoyant
economy, with investment
prices rising in keeping with
growing profits and prospects,
is healthy. But excessive specu-
lation usually brings disappoint-
ment and loss of confidence in
its train.
The unpredictable factor of
overseas speculative investment
in Australia is one of the things
at present creating a gambling
atmosphere around what should
be an optimistic, expansive but
rational economy.
Sydney “Post” Trading
TTnder the new system of
“post" trading, business on
Sydney Stock Exchange has
speeded up remarkably. Every
stock is dealt in before 1.30
p.m., as a rule, and as each
stock is reached it is open for
business for the remainder of
the trading day.
Under the old “call” system
a stock was dealt in only while
it was being “called,” which
might be once a day.
The “post” system involves
more staff and expense, but
that is the inevitable price of
growth and progress, and in
relation to business done it
will grow proportionately less
as turnover expands.
“Post” trading has already
swung some business from Mel-
bourne to Sydney where early
dealings are sought. On the
“big board” in Sydney the
leaders are dealt with together,
and Woolworths, for example,


&CNT
mm
*•:*>«*
*. m : :>
St
■ m&, **
*■ . • Vv>, -
# •*>• •-vNy>-y -» .
A happier choice for every occasion . . §
eoves
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES , . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia'*
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF. TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT. MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY... ST. AGNES BRANDY
doesn’t have to wait for all the
second - line and third-line
alphabetical in-betweens to be
disposed of first. The leaders
are dealt with within, an hour
or two of the Exchange’s open-
ing, which tends to set a pattern
throughout Australia for the
remainder of the day. To
counter this, Melbourne now
“calls” the leaders separately.
Sydney ’Change will scarcely
have -its new trading system
operating smoothly before it
will move to new and modernly
equipped premises in the Royal
Exchange Assurance building,
which runs through from
O’Connell Street to Bligh Street.
Here it will have more space,
more equipment and more
facilities generally. There will
also be a public gallery.
Associated Tobacco
Ouch is the magic influence
of the word “land” nowa-
days that, following the
announcement that Associated
Tobacco Manufacturers (Hold-
ings), Ltd., was going into the
real-estate business (through a
subsidiary), the ss. shares in
Associated Tobacco jumped
from 3s. 2d. to 4s. 6d. almost
overnight.
The entry into the land boom
is to be through a recon-
structed subsidiary, Phoenix
Land and Investment Co., Ltd.,
formerly Queensland Cigarette
Corporation, Ltd. The mode
of entry is to be by Phoenix
buying “a substantial equity-
interest in Commonwealth
Land and Investment Co.,
Ltd.”
All the companies men-
tioned are in the Moulton
stable, 8-14 Bond Street, Syd-
ney. This stable has been
associated with such promo-
tions as Commercial Credit Cor-
poration, Queensland Forests,
Ltd., and various other timber,
tobacco and bond- and deben-
ture-selling ventures, going
back to 1929.
Associated Tobacco was off
the div.-list from 1954 to 1959,
but has recently paid an interim
at the rate of 5 p.c.
Commonwealth Land and
Investment Co., Ltd., was
formed in 1957 “with a capital
of £250,000 to engage in land-
purchase, subdivisions and
sales, and to advance money
on mortgage or other high-
grade securities.” It is “asso-
ciated with a number of other
finance and investment com-
panies with up to 30 years’ ex-
perience in the field of general
and developmental finance.”
Under date of January 21
this year R. C. Moulton, a
director, offering, on behalf of
the company, 12 p.c. p.a. for
three-year deposit-money, said
that total deposits received
were approximately £90,000,
and that the previous year’s
profit “was sufficient to cover
deposit interest more than
three times.” Apparently the
deposits were those applicable
to the year 1958-59. The co.’s
subscribed capital at January
21, 1960, was £loo,ooo—the
£250,000 previously mentioned
apparently being authorised
capital.
On May 9 it was stated that
deposits had grown to £150,000.
At this point, it was said, “the
co.’s subscribed capital is now
£150,000 and is being increased
to £250,000. The maintenance
of subscribed share-capital at a
figure greater than total de-
posits gives depositors the
maximum security-cover.”
“Latest projects,” a letter of
May 9 stated, “are the
subdivision of the company's
Garden Estate at Windsor
Road, Baulkham Hills (near
Parramatta), the erection of a
modern shopping-arcade (‘The
Centreway’) in the heart of
Bondi Junction and the erec-
tion of ‘Princeton’ —an attrac-
tive block of 52 luxury home-
units, near Chevron Hotel,
Surfdrs Paradise (Q.). The
Baulkham Hills subdivision is
now being sold to home-
builders, ‘The Centreway’ is
nearing completion and
‘Princeton’ home-units should
be ready for occupation in
July next. Many other very
promising propositions are
being investigated.”
Instead of ending “With
kind regards,” this letter
concluded with the urgent
notification: the issue of
£200,000 DEPOSITS WILL BE
CLOSING SHORTLY.
It has also been stated
recently that the co. has incor-
porated a subsidiary, Rem-
brandt Homes Pty., Ltd.,
through which it intends to
expand into the field of home-
building.
Of the undertaking in
general it is claimed that “the
generous interest rate of
12 p.c. per annum is prac-
tical because interest is an
expense which is charged
against profits before income-
tax payable by the company
is calculated.”
Although the co. says that
“the co was able com-
fortably to pay its shareholders
a dividend equal to 10 p.c.
on its total share capital for
the year ended June 30, 1958,”
and that “results for the cuf 1
rent financial year will be
even better,” actual balance-»
sheet figures would have been
more instructive to the intend-
ing depositor; if at this
stage last year’s figures might
be somewhat out-of-date they
could still be informative,
even if they only indicated
what paid capital is in relation
to subscribed capital.
Interest-rates offered vary
from 5 p.c. at call to 8 p.c.
for six months, 10 p.c. for a
year, and 12 p.c. for three
years or more. For each £lOO
of deposits the co. proposes
to maintain net tangible assets
of not less than £2OO.
It has not been stated what
proportion of the co.’s bor-
rowings carry 12 p.c. and
what carry the lower rates.
But it should be noted that
-before company-tax becomes
a consideration the co. has
to net more than 12 p.c. on
the employment of the long-
term money (before charging
interest). That may or may
not be easy to do at the
moment ; but it could become
difficult in a changed econo-
mic climate.
Directors of Commercial
Land and Investment Co. are
Robert Clyde Moulton, Helen
Langhof, and Paul Fletcher
Moulton.
Mutual Real Estate
Sponsored by Real Estate
Equities, Ltd., and managed
by Mutual Funds (Aust.), Ltd.,
units of ss. each are now being
offered in Mutual Real Estate
and Share Trust, Victoria. The
trust has been established for
the expressed purpose of enab-
ling investors to “participate
financially in the growth of
Victoria—to obtain capital-
gains as well as a steady income
from your investment.”
Funds will be invested in
land-subdivision, flats and
home - units, city properties,
homes, factories and commer-
cial premises, real - property
mortgages and Stock Exchange
securities.
Life of the fund is for 15


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE.
DEBENTURE STOCK.
%
mm
■■SI
MS HiSi>
jSSHL-SSS
mm
p.a.
4 to 10.
years
urrency
Interest
Per Annum
4-10 years
3 years
2 years
1 year
6 months
7 days’
call
rS
cfiSr
non
Li rp
Co
ted
r a
dOff«
OAMB
H«n
IDGE HOUSE
'2 4 9
ORGE
SYDNEY
NS
PHG
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange
CUMULATIVE DEBENTURE STOCK
8% per annum for 4-20 years
Compounded on yearly rests
B
U
Bankers to tlie Company and for the Issue:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES!
Underwriting Brokers: RALPH W. KINO &
YUILL, li:j Pitt Street. SYDNEY. Members
of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Brokers for the Issue in Newcastle: F. S.
SCORER & CO., T. and G. Building, Hunter
Street, Newcastle. Members of the Newcastle
Stock Exchange.
Brokers for the Issue in Queensland: CORRIE
& CO., Union Trustee Chambers, 400 Queen
Street. Brisbane. Branches at Cairns. Towns-
ville, Rockhampton and Surfers' Paradise.
Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
Trustees for Debenture holders: BANKERS’
& TRADERS’ INSURANCE CO., LTD.
PROSPECTUS
WITH
APPLICATION
FORMS
Applications can be accepted only on the
printed form attached to the Prospectus, a
copy of which has been lodged with the Regi-
strar of Companies, Queensland.
AVAILABLE FROM:
Any member of the SYDNEY, NEW-
CASTLE or BRISBANE STOCK
EXCHANGES.
Any Office of the Company.
Any Branch of the Bank of New
South Wales.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED,
Ist Floor, Park House, 15 Park Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me a copy of Prospectus with Application Forms,
A. L. NEVSTT & CO.
A. L.. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
years, with the right of exten-
sion if thought desirable. Pro-
vision is made for repurchase
of the units, if required, at an
assessed ruling price. The cost
of managing the fund after it
has been established will be
a managing-fee of not more
than 1 p.c. of the half-yearly
irrcome of the fund, with an
additional quarter of 1 p.c. for
the trustees.
A service-fee is also included
in the opening price of ss. per
unit. Over the 15-year life of
the fund this charge is less than
a unit.
After flotation the price of
the units will depend on the
value of the security-backing.
Profitability of this fund
will depend largely upon the
extent to which capital-growth,
both in real-estate and in
equity shares, has not already
been anticipated, or overantici-
pated, by the market, and upon
the real growth that takes place
in Victoria during the next 15
years.
The co. has seven well-
known real-estate firms as its
advisers. The directors of Real
Estate Equities, Ltd., are Baron
David Snider, M.L.A., Hon.
Leslie George Norman and Sir
Lewis Charles Burne.
No Overseas Code
[From Canberra]
'"The suggestion put to last
month's Export Conven-
tion by Trade Minister John
McEwen that Australian busi-
nessmen draw up a “code” to
provide for greater Australian
equity in foreign investment
here has received a severe set-
back.
McEwen said the Govern-
ment did not favor any rigid
rules to cover investment in
Australia, but asked private in-
terests to draw up a set of
rules, under the polite name of
a “code,” which would be
“reasonable, practicable and
helpful.”
The Manufacturing Indus-
tries Advisory Council, in a
report to the Government, has
made quite clear the views of
private industrialists—those to
whom the appeal was made.
“Overseas investors could do
more to meet local criticism (of
non-Australian partnership) by
allowing local investors to share
more in their interests in Aus-
tralia.
“But the council does not
favor any formula (or code?)
or legislative action designed to
attain this end,” it reported.
Quite plainly, if the Govern-
ment does not favor any set of
rules and if private industry
does not favor it, what hope is
there of such a code being
drawn up?
The Government, or industry
for that matter, does not want
to frighten investors
away by laying down any terms
and conditions under which in-
vestment may be made in Aus-
tralia.
In the light of Government
statements and the Report of
the Manufacturing Industry
Advisory Council, overseas in-
vestors need have no future
fears of being “pressurised” to
allow greater Australian par-
ticipation in their activities.
The overseas investment
“golden egg”—B p.c. of total
investment in Australia, both
public and private, in the last
decade —is too good for any-
one to go round killing the
goose.
The Government knows it,
and so do the manufacturers
and other industrialists.
The council itself and, prob-
ably, the Government, do not
see any real threat in the exist-
ing picture in any event. They
feel that, by and large, the risk
of foreign domination of the
economy through capital in-
vestment is negligible.
In its report, the Council
even went so far as to advise
the Government how to attract
more overseas investment by
way of tax-incentives.
It did not advocate incentives
to overseas investors which
were not available to Austra-
lians, but suggested that new
taxation incentives to Austra-
lian industry would make in-
vestment in Australia a more
attractive proposition.
One of the incentives could
be more liberal depreciation
allowances on industrial
machinery and equipment.
This recommendation is likely
to get serious consideration by
Cabinet in its Budget discus-
sions next month.
Such incentives would not
only attract new capital but
could result in a lowering of
production costs in Australia,
which in turn could make Aus-
tralian goods more competitive
on overseas markets.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
mmotfi
Vintage Wines
N S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN &CO PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Films
Sydney Film Festival
So far, the general mood of
this year’s festival has been
one of serious and sober,
though hopeful, on
basic human values. There are
several important attempts at
filming difficult novels and
plays. Dramatic films are, on
the whole, good ; but comedies
of comparable class are lack-
ing. “Fanfare” (Holland) and
“Sven Dufva” (Finland) are
entertaining and technically
adequate, but not up to the
standard of “The Witches of
Salem,” “Black Orpheus” (both
from France) or “Ashes and
Diamond” (Poland).
Any critical review of a film-
festival boasting some 34 pro-
grammes from many parts of
the world must necessarily be
subjective in selection and
appreciation. One feels that
most of the screenings, feature-
films as well as documentaries
and specials, are a bit too long.
European and Asian films are
generally slower-paced than
those shown commercially.
In “The Witches of Salem”
Jean-Paul Sartre’s masterly
script of Arthur Miller’s play
“The Crucible” is brilliantly
realised by director Raymond
Rouleau. The entire cast
offers a sincere and deeply
moving performance. Claude
Renoir’s expert black-and-
white photography provides an
excellent medium for dramatic
expression. Technically flaw-
less, the film is fast-moving,
with sustained tension and
some tender moments.
Miller’s tense and uncom-
promising story about the
witch-hunt hysteria in Salem,
Massachusetts, in 1692, tells of
deliberate criminal exploita-
tion of religious fanaticism,
superstition and ignorance.
The “witches” themselves are
far from perfect. Simone
Signoret plays a zealous Puri-
tan wife who mortifies her
flesh, driving her virile husband
(Yves Montand) to adultery
with an unscrupulous teenager
(Mylene Demongeot), who later
becomes a star witness in
the witch-hunt.
The victims find sufficient
moral courage to go to the
gallows, rather than “confess.”
The society which had cried
out for their blood reverses its
stand ; an unsuccessful armed
rescue-attempt is made. On the
scaffold no one doubts their
innocence, but “although
judges may be wrong, their
sentences must be upheld.”
The witch-hunters stand
irrevocably condemned. Even
the last-minute repentance of a
few of them appears useless
and blasphemous. Nor are the
genuine, if misguided, motives
of some of the persecutors of
any real importance. Conse-
quences of their actions make
their intentions irrelevant;
only results can be considered.
In “Black Orpheus” the
Greek legend is set in Brazil
by French producer Sacha
Gordine (director, Marcel
Camus) with an all-Negro
cast. This excellent film suc-
ceeds in conveying a genuine
atmosphere, as in the scene in
a Negro “chapel” where
Christian rites and pagan
voodoo-rites are hopelessly
mixed-up. Action is fast, with
a lot of color ; the soundtrack
has remarkable authenticity;
acting is spontaneous and
natural, only one of the cast
having had previous profes-
sional experience.
Both attempts at filming
Dostoevsky novels have their
strong points. Terry Sanders
achieves a creditable transposi-
tion of Crime and Punishment
into California’s near-slums of
1959. Frank Silvera is very
good as the inspector, and
George Flamilton is convincing
as the student. Walter New-
man’s script plays-up the two,
but Mary Murphy’s role a.s a
prostitute (Dostoevsky’s Sonia)
is rendered comparatively un-
important ; there is some
squeamishness in the presenta-
tion of this kind-hearted harlot.
The script almost ignores the
drunkard, an essential charac-
ter in the novel ; but on the
whole the attempt is imagina-
tive and bold.
Some characters from the Elizabethan Theatre Trust Opera Co.’s production of “The
Magic Flute,” which has been played in Melbourne and Sydney and will figure also in
the company’s Brisbane season next month.
Ivan Pyryev’s Russian ver-
sion of The Idiot is a good
average film, slightly disap-
pointing to one who expected
more of it. There is a strong
influence of Eisenstein in
camerawork and editing,
Period costumes and settings
are authentic; soft technicolor
pleases the eye ; the action is
fast, - though perhaps too
dynamic for Dostoevsky’s
philosophy. Yakovlev’s Prince
Myshkin (speaking beautiful
Russian) is adequate, but Yulia
Borisova, as Nastasia Fili-
povna (the call-girl), is shallow
and stiff. Supporting cast is
reasonably good, but not out-
standing. Sub-titles, as in
most other foreign films shown,
are weak.
Claude Autant-Lara’s French
setting of Stendhal’s Le Rouge
dt le Noir is uniformly witty
and entertaining, well-filmed in
technicolor, with a good dra-
matic ending and some excel-
lent choral singing on the
soundtrack. Daniele Darrieux
and the late Gerard Philipe
lead the cast. No masterpiece,
this, but a sound showing.
Japan’s “Living” (produced
by Kurosowa of “Rashomon”
fame) is another good, if slow-
moving, film. Documentaries
and semi-documentaries are
pretty uniform in presentation
and treatment of material,
Among the best are “A Tribute
to Fangio” (U.K.), “The Black
Man and His Bride”" (Aus-
tralia), which was reviewed
from Melbourne in B. 8/6/’6O,
and “Jiri Trnka’s Puppets”
(Czechoslovakia),
Good “shorts” include the
Australian “Not By Choice”
(about Sydney’s soup-kitchens),


Established 1888
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
O'SUhLIVAV
PTYITD
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London. New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO MARJORIE HELEN COFFEY and
NICK KIMISKI late of Sydney in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOHN HENRY COFFEY
has filed a supplemental petition No.
1641 of 1960 praying for a Divorce
from MARJORIE HELEN COFFEY on
the grounds of her adultery with NICK
KIMISKI and is praying that the Court
exercise its discretion on his behalf
under Section 19 (2) fa) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899-1958 If either
of you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court Macquarie Street Sydney
by the Ist day of August 1960 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG
& CO., Solicitors, of No. 160 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HxVRMS, Registrar.
the French “Un Americain Se
Detend” (a sympathetic skit
on the American addiction to
mechanical gadgets) and the
Czechoslovakian “Here Are
No Butterflies,” a frightening
little piece about drawings of
Jewish children murdered in
the Nazi Teresian concentra-
tion-camp.
In a special class are experi-
mental films such as Poland’s
“The Last Day of Summer,”
U.S.A.’s “The Savage Eye”
(with a first-class “faith-heal-
ing” scene), France’s “La Tete
Contre Les Murs” and U.K.’s
“A Soho Story.” Intended to
remind us of the victims of
war, starvation, mental illness
and maladjustment, they each
provoke much thought.
Dino De Laurentiis’ slow-
moving, unconvincing and
commonplace war-story, “Five
Branded Women,” is the festi-
val’s major flop. Another weak
entry is B. Sefranka’s “Old
Man Motorcar” (Czechoslo-
vakia), in part redeemed by
some interesting old newsreels.
The Czechs have done a lot
better than this.
Yet to be reviewed are
several major films, including
“Ashes and Diamond”
(Poland), “The Stars” (Ger-
man-Bulgarian), “A Man’s
Destiny” (Russia), “The World
of Apu” (India) and “The
Lambeth Boys” (U.K.).
E. B.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Alias Jesse James”
Bob Hope, prize idiot of
his life-assurance co., while
covering the wide, open spaces
“writes” a sizeable policy
on the life of the outlaw. What
he doesn’t know is that Jesse
proposes to bump him off, get
witnesses to attest that the
cadaver is Jesse’s, get the girl-
friend named in his will as his
sole beneficiary, collect and
skip over the border.
The comedy circulating
around this and subsequent;
attempts to kill the unkillable
Bob amount to the usual
brand of Hope comedy, spiced
with the usual snappy wise-
cracks. All good, clean fun,
made the funnier by a
climactic gun-battle in which
some rung-in notables of screen
and TV—including Bing —
give gun-aid undetected to the
beleaguered Robert.
At Sydney Regent.
*l* ♦> +z+
“Darby Q’Gill and the
Little People”
This Irish fantasy from Walt
Disney about a village toper
who has dealings with the
King of the Leprechauns leans
too heavily on stage Oirishisms,
but, for all that, some of its
sequences assay moderately
well in laughs. Where it falls
down is in its attempts to por-
tray the fearsome aspects of
the King’s wrath —here the
mechanics just don’t work.
Alfred Sharp, in the chief role,
too often overplays for the
laughs.
At Sydney Liberty.
Artbursts
Three Young Painters
It is always pleasing to see
new painters coming up. Art
must move and, if the funda-
mentals of technique and
observation never alter, it
must to some extent move with
the times.
But it must be said that,
while abstraction is the rage,
some of the Sydney galleries
are trying to move their young
painters up long before they
are really ready to appear be-
fore the public ; and the exhi-
bition by three young painters
at Farmer’s Blaxland Galleries
is a case in point.
In the normal run of things
any of these painters might
get one of their works ex-
hibited, say, in the annual
exhibition of the liberal Society
of Artists ; and that, for a few
years, should be enough for
them.
The most accomplished of
the three is Roger Hallett,
whose cubes and patches of
color, amorphous close up,
resolve themselves in the dist-
ance to effective semi-abstract
views of “Wylde Street,”
“Echo Town” or “Vines.”
The most promising might
well be Owen Tooth, whose
large, over-ambitious paintings,
though too thin and squiggly,
show an inclination towards
the stylised landscapes of the
Melbourne group and a
genuine sensitivity to Nature.
His “Bobbin Head Bush,”
though posterish, is solid and
attractive.
John Bell, the other exhibi-
tor, is an exponent of social-
realism from the factories. His
paint is scruffy and his work-
men so ugly that you would
almost think they had been
painted by some infuriated
capitalist. His promise lies in
the fact that he is willing to
tackle the problems of figure-
composition, direct observation
and human drama. „
• *X* <♦ ♦>
Black-and-White
The black-and-whites of the
abstract-painters which domi-
nate the N. S. Wales Con-
temporary Society’s “first
Australia - wide graphic art
exhibition” at David Jones’
(Sydney) are dramatic enough
at first glance, being very
large, very black and very
white.
Yet there is an overriding
ugliness about them, a lack of
finesse and taste ; and in the
end, with their whirring wheels
and odd shapes lying about like
pieces of machinery, they give
you the uncomfortable impres-
sion of being marooned at the
back of a garage while some-
one is mending your car.
Suavity and taste make their
appearance in the colored
prints and drawings—for ex-
ample, Roy Fluke’s abstract
reports from the deep sea, Syd
Baron’s prancing sculptural
figures and George Duncan’s
lively “Riggers”—and there is
some finesse of drawing among
the smaller black-and-whites,
such as I. E. Belliss’s spiky
Martians, Audrey Russell’s
flowers and A. Burggraf’s little
llama.
Stage and Music
New Penberthy Ballet
Perth audiences, delighted
last year by James Penberthy’s
opera “Dalgerie” and his ballet
inspired by a beach-scene,
were eager to hear and see
“Kooree and the Mists,” a new
work lately presented by the
W.A. State Ballet Company.
Set on the programme be-
tween a charmingly mounted
Act II of “Swan Lake” and the
infectious gaiety of “La
Boutique Fantasque,” the Aus-
tralian piece made an exciting
contrast to classical beauty and
sophisticated fairytale.
Kooree is a young girl who
wanders barefoot in her red
dress into a paperbark swamp.
The grey twisted limbs have a
forbidding resemblance to
living forms, but Kooree does
not notice and dances happily
as a white mist rises. In her
delighted imagination the mist
resolves itself into a company
of maidens who join in her
dance with fluid grace, sur-
rounding her, entreating her.
Suddenly the Spirit of the
Mist (Gerard Sibbritt) appears.
Enchanted by his cold features
and remote elegance, Kooree
longs to touch him —she
reaches out in vain, the mists
melt as swiftly as they came.
The music takes up a sinister
beat; Kooree responds with
impulsive gestures. The trees
stir, their roots twist out until
Kooree, half-terrified, half-
fascinated, finds herself the
centre of a writhing circle of
monsters.
This is a notable moment —
recollections of Norman Lind-
say’s pen-drawings of whirling
demons and medieval beasts
(Continued on pa%e 26)


MELANESIAN UNION?
[By “M.H.E.”]
HThe Dutch vision of the future, of New
-*■ Guinea, including the Commonwealth
and Dutch territory, as part of an inde-
pendent Melanesian Union was put for-
ward by the Dutch State Secretary for
New Guinea, Mr. Bot, in Canberra, and
afterwards in The Hague by the Dutch
Minister for Home Affairs, who expressed
his Government’s view.
This may be a real proposition for the
Dutch, but it can scarcely be practical
politics for Australia so long as the
defence of this country is affected by the
nearness of New Guinea and the old
German islands and the Solomons and
Hebrides.
The populations of those countries are
the most primitive and backward in the
world, the great majority of them not
much ahead of the Australian aborigine
in standards of mental culture. It isn't
possible that there will be either enough
Melanesians, or Melanesians sufficiently
advanced in science or endowed with
physical resources and know-how, to
look after themselves for several genera-
tions. There are under 2,000,000 in all
the islands now.
The Dutch part of Indonesia is a
matter for the Dutch and the native
population. Papua, however, is Aus-
tralian by annexation and government.
And it is unthinkable that its manage-
ment of the rest of the main island,
which it now controls, should ever be
deeded-over to an independent “govern-
ment” until both the defence-rampart
of the Commonwealth is secure and the
population is able to look after itself. The
same applies in the British Solomons and
the Condominium of the New Hebrides,
which equally are part of our shield
against invasion.
One of the greatest dangers to" peace at
the present time lies in the granting of
independence, through the pressure of
outside influence, to immature peoples
incapable of conceiving, much less
implementing, the principles of modern
democratic government.
The normal liberties of, say, a British
colonial community die under the
pressures of insurrectionary movements
and the conditions created in the violent
process are held up to the world as
normal to British imperialism.
World sympathy with the oppressed,
rather than the power of local move-
meats, forces the relinquishment of
control by the British.
“Freedom” is then established, but it
invariably proves to consist only in cut-
ting adrift from the United Kingdom, or
whatever other European Power is
involved, and the installation of a body
of rulers who draw their inspirations
from Moscow agitators and who suppress
all internal opposition to their auto-
cracies, and all the liberties for which
their people were supposed to be fighting.
Invariably, too, they develop wider
ambitions.
Thus Nkrumah, in the tiny State of
Ghana, is advancing towards the creation
of his republic with his Parliamentary
opposition in jail, freedom of speech
and the press suppressed, and himself
involved in a dream of empire which
embraces the whole of Africa in one
vast new Negro edition of the U.S.S.R.
Nasser and Kassem are dreaming the
same sort of dreams.
-Soekarno, belonging to a more civilised
culture, has produced a Malayan edition
of the Nkrumah set-up. He has
extended his rule beyond the borders of
willing populations, with the result that
some of the richest parts of his ram-
shackle Federation are retained entirely
by force. It is his vision of empire which
turns his eyes to West New Guinea rather
than any real concern with the welfare
of its people.
The day when the numerous types of
Melanesians, divided into dozens of
tribes, racially different and speaking a
new language every few miles, can be
considered for independence and federa-
tion is a long, long way off.
It is dangerous to canvass the possi-
bility as yet, since statements like those
made by the Dutch authorities will be
almost immediately used for mischief
in a very distorted form among the half-
baked demagogues who are being pro-
duced in New Guinea towns and villages
under the parlor-pink influence of U.N.-
protected subversionists.
CHINA'S INDIA PLAN
[By “Ek Dum”]
Tn the light of known plans which have
A gradually been brought to fruition by
the Russians and Chinese the Indian
situation is far more serious than appears
on the surface.
The plans outlined by Mao and carried
to Moscow in March, 1953, by Chou
En-lai, have been authenticated by the
trends of the intervening years.
The scheme envisaged military opera-
tions in Indo-China to a point at which
the French would be driven out and
it would only need a final stroke
occupying two years to “accomplish the
task of liberation.”
It envisioned the fact that “Formosa
must be incorporated in the Republic of
China,” but that “if seizure by force
must be avoided for the time being, the
entry of Communist China into U.N.
might help to solve the problem” by
producing an intermediate stage during
which Chiang Kai-shek would be ousted
and Formosa made a U.N. trust
territory.
The other countries of South-east Asia,
plus Indonesia, were marked down for
eventual “liberation,” when they would
“fall into the Communist camp like ripe
fruit.”
It was anticipated that by 1960 the
industrial power of Russia and China
would be so developed that a mere show
of force would bring about a peaceful
revolution in Japan, but that “we must
guard against the possibility that the
United States would choose to have war
at this moment.”
The sudden volte face in the line of
Moscow as represented by Khrushchev’s
movements, especially when linked to
the number of “peace” conferences for
soft-heads which have been organised
from Moscow, all go well with the
scheme:
The defensive and offensive preparations
of the Soviet Union and China must
therefore be completed before 1960.
Whether we can prevent the United States
from starting the war depends upon how
much success we have in isolating her and
how effective is our peace-offensive. If.
the war can be averted the success of our
plan of peaceful penetration of other parts
of Asia is almost assured.
The original plan, based on the feel-
ing that the Moslems and Africans in
general would be with the Communist
countries from the start, has achieved a
great deal, but it has had setbacks, par-
ticularly in the Middle East.
It was intended that “in the case of
India, only peaceful means should be
adopted. Any employment of force will
alienate ourselves from the Arab coun-
tries and Africa, because India is con-
sidered to be our friend,” and “after
India has been won over, the problems
of the Philippines and the Arabic
countries can be easily solved and revolu-
tion would sweep, over the whole of
Africa and drive the imperialists and
colonisationalists into the sea. In fact,
this powerful movement may be under
way earlier.”
The realisation of this ambition would
result in a “total economic collapse in
the West.”
China’s plan for India showed flaws
when the Communists lost their hold in
Kerala, and it may be that the invasions
across the Himalayas are designed to
intimidate India and force upon it
the first step of peaceful Chinese domina-
tion, Moscow co-operating.
It is quite clear that the United States
treats the dangers in Asia much more
seriously than the simpletons of the
recent Melbourne “peace” conference.
India’s Prime Minister Nehru has des-
cribed the mental outlook of Commu-
nists as “outdated and reactionary.” It
has taken him a long time to come to
this decision—or, at any rate, to voice it
—but the actions of Indian Communists
in Kerala and of Chinese Communists
in Tibet and on India’s northern frontier
have opened his eyes. In the same speech
(to the Congress party) Nehru promised
that steps would be taken to prevent
people who didn’t believe in the party’s
objectives from being elected to Parlia-
ment on the Congress ticket. The
unity-ticket is obviously a Communist
tactic in India as well as in this country.


An Investment in the
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5 4%
LOAN
Is Covernment-Guaranteed I
This is your opportunity to earn 5£ per cent, for either 7, 10
or 25 years. The N.S.W. Government UNCONDITION-
ALLY GUARANTEES that your interest will be paid every
6 months, and that your principal will be repaid in full at the
end of the term you select. In addition, the Loan is secured
on the Board’s income, which exceeds £15,000,000 per annum.
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania. Trustees of
Superannuation, Provident and other Funds catn invest in this
gilt-edged security with advantage.
The Board serves more than 2,000,000 people in an area of
4,000 square miles, and depends on Loans to finance the
construction of new works required to meet the needs of the
growing population.
Your Loan investment will be quickly arranged at any
office of the
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
Make certain of 5\% every year for 1, 10 or 25 years!
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by
Ralph W. King & Yuill : : Ernest L. Davis & Co.
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
engulfing some hapless nymph
sprang to mind.
The urgent music throbs
fearfully on, the monsters rise
up and swirl into a danse
macabre. Kooree hesitates no
longer; abandoning all
restraint, she forgets the lovely
mists and gives herself to the
evil fascination of the swamp-
creatures until at last, in a
demented frenzy of horror, she
leaps shrieking to her doom.
As she disappears into the
dark water the monsters sub-
side, the roots retract. Soon
nothing moves. The music
alters. The swamp is motion-
less as before Kooree entered.
Only a faint mist rises as the
orchestra falls silent.
Mary Miller danced the
demanding part of Kooree with
natural ease, excelling in the
second act, when she showed
more than a flash of fire and
understanding of human
abandonment. Interestingly
B enough, this young and sensi-
tive dancer, for whom the
ballet was especially written,
has a heritage of part-aborigi-
nal blood.
Penberthy did not consci-
ously employ any aboriginal
motifs in composing this
ballet, as he has in some
earlier works ; nevertheless the
music creates a satisfying sense
of association with the for-
midable atmosphere of an
Australian paperbark swamp.
The decor and the monsters’
costumes, designed by
Michael Page, were extremely
effective ; choreography was by
Kira Bousloff; the composer
conducted.
H. D.-B.
❖❖ • *
Schubertiad
Last week’s Schubert Society
concert in Sydney featured con-
tralto Tessa Schell, a singer
whose work is always marked
by admirable regard for in-
terpretative detail. She cer-
tainly needed this in
the Mahler cycle, “Songs on
the Death of Children” (sung
in honor of the centenary of
the composer’s birth). These
five songs are akin in profun-
dity to the “Four Serious
Songs” of Brahms, and share
with the Brahms and the
Schubert “Winter Journey”
cycle a oneness of theme which
demands voice - shading and
razor - keen interpretation if
monotony is to be avoided.
Miss Schell made no mistake
here. She used her rich low-
register discreetly, switched
tone-color with judgment, and
in the second song, “Ah, Now
I Know,” achieved a delicate
ending high on the half voice.
A Schubert bracket com-
prised “Night Song,” in which
a facile command of legato did
justice to the long, lyrical
phases ; “Restless Love,” the
basic agitation sharply con-
veyed ; “I Arose In The Night,”
a fine-spun song which should
be heard more often ; and a
beautifully delivered “The
Stream.”
Violist Imre Gal joined
accompanist Norma Read
(whose work throughout was
unexceptionable) to supply the
obbligato for two rich Brahms
songs: “Longing Fulfilled,” an
exposition of restrained exulta-
tion ; and “Holy Lullaby,” a
flowing stream of tenderness.
Pianist William Watson was
heard in Schubert’s Sonata in
A Major, D. 664 ; his exposi-
tion of the chief theme was
too jerkily stated, and else-
where phrasing was below par.
Later he and Miss Read piayed
two of the same composer’s
most delightful examples of
four-hand work —the “Andan-
tino Varie” and the C Major
“M arch Characteristic” —in
which integration in the
strong rhythmic material was
capitally achieved.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
University Revue
Apart from the title-sketch,
little was seen of the “Nymphs
and Shepherds” of this year’s
Sydney University revue, pro-
duced by Leo Schofield at St.
Joseph’s Church Hall last week.
Summitry, subdivisions and
other topicalities at home and
abroad were the butt of good-
humored lampooning.
Perhaps the natural boister-
ousness of such a revue would
be better suited to the nymphs
and shepherds of a younger
generation than to the more
sophisticated of an cider one ;
nevertheless, many of the
sketches were well done. Jenny
Towndrow was engagingly for-
lorn as a solitary fibreglass
mermaid, and Brian Tapply
and Michael Newman made a
delightful Victoria and Albert
in a Gilbertian version of Tony
and Meg’s romance. An un-
usual item was the lesson in
“method” acting—a tricky one
that came off well. “Classic”
contrast was provided by a
racy “Iliad,” and John Clifton-
Bligh was very good in a Deep-
South version of “Hamlet” that
had the juicy flavor of Tennes-
see Williams as it explored the
“complexes” of Shakspeare’s
characters. Neat touches were
the television-commercials that
cropped-up unexpectedly from
time to time.
C. S.


Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale"’
PATRICK & COMPANY
Sydney.
R. H. ALLEN
P. B. LEVY
M. R. R. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911 (10 lines)
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Western Stores, Ltd.
Tmproved rural incomes have lifted
sales and profits. Turnover showed a
substantial increase compared with the
previous year. A part of the improve-
ment was ascribed to the co.’s takeover
of Morleys Pty., of Tweed Heads
(N.S.W.), but it is claimed that even
without the additional business “the
increase in sales was highly satisfactory
and exceeded expectations.” The div.-
rate was raised from p.c. to 15 p.c.
p.a.
The co. was formed as Western Stores
and Edgleys, Ltd., in 1928, to amalgamate
the business of three old-established
storekeepers operating in the central-west
districts of N.S.W. Over the last 10
years or so, Western Stores, Ltd., has
expanded rapidly, absorbing other cos.,
and modernising and extending existing
premises.
A retailer dealing exclusively in country
centres, the co. has branches in Dubbo,
Bathurst, Orange, Wellington, Narromine,
Gilgandra, Cowra, Grenfell, Molong,
Tamworth and Tweed Heads (all in
N.S.W.). Last term A. A. Tilbrook and
Co. Pty., of Molong, was taken-over.
Western Stores issued 26,500 ss. ords. as
part-consideration, following its usual
absorption policy of part-payment in
shares.
In face of increasing competition from
Sydney-centred rivals, sales and profits
have continued to climb, with a
temporary dip in 1959. An open
mind, a quick eye for customers’
tastes and new retailing techniques
have kept the co. in the lead. Self-
service food-departments were intro-
duced in the stores and proved a great
attraction for buyers. The co. has so
far avoided introducing large-scale
extended-credit schemes, relying mainly
on competitive prices to stimulate its cash
and short-term credit sales.
Expenses increased considerably during
the year, particularly salaries and wages.
However, rising costs were successfully
absorbed by higher sales.
Consolidated net profit for the year
ended February 29, 1960, was £69,071
higher at £313,579, after charging all
expenses, adjusting outside shareholders’
interests, writing-off £44,724 depreciation
on fixed assets (up £5652) and providing
£187,286 for taxation (up £37,913): ——
Parent and Subsidiaries,*
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb.,Profit. 6 p.c. r — serves. serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’54..200,322 10,500 15 = 84,000 105,222 018,389
Assets revalued, £282,000 .. .. 900,389
Reserves capitalised, £282,000 .. 618.389
’55..219,281 10,500 13f = 103,306 105,475 723,864
Share premiums, £64,312 . . .. 788,176
’56..23T, 264 10,500 124 = 124,092 102,072 890,248
’57..214,212 10,500 12$.= 151.924 51,788 942,036
Tax overprovided, £BOOO .. .. 950,030
Stock-provision written-back, £75,000 1,025,036
’58..272.375 10,500 124 = 151,924 109,951 1,134,987
’59..244,508 10,500 121= 151,924 82,084 1,217,071
Share premiums, £0939 . . . . 1,224,010
’60..313,579 10,500 15 = 195,555 107,524 1,331,534
* Subject to intangibles, £32,712 at February 29,
1960.
t After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
After satisfying the unchanged pref.-div.
requirements (£10,500), consolidated net
profit was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 23.3 p.c. on a higher average ord.
capital, as against 19.2 p.c. in the previous
term and 21.5 p.c. in 1958, 16.7 p.c. in
1957 and 23.2 p.c. in 1956.
Ord. div.-rate was raised from 12| p.c.
to 15 p.c., absorbing £195,555. The total
div.-cheque was well covered, and
£107,524 was transferred to reserves,
which also benefited by £6939 shaYe-
premiums. Total reserves and undistri-
buted profits amounted to £1,331,534,
subject to £32,712 intangibles.
Apart from the 26,500 ss. ords. issued
as part-consideration lor the acquisition
of A. A. Tilbrook and Co. Pty., of
Molong, other issues brought paid
capital to £1,482,015 in £175,000
20s. prefs. and £1,307,015 ss. ords.
(including 26,640 ss. employee shares).
The £155,328 bank-overdraft was
mainly due to bringing forward the date
of tax-payments. Creditors were
£112,935 higher at £266,380 :
Cox SOLI DA T E D B A LAN CE JIEET.
Paid capital—- 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref .. .. £175,000 £175,000 £175,000
Ord 1,215,390 1,215,390 1,307,015
Reserves . . 1,134,987 1,217,071 1,331,534
Outside interests 25,000 25,000 25,000
Overdraft . . 9,653 155,328
Creditors . . 152,141 153,445 266,380
Tax provision .. 302,669 287,629 204,558
Final divs. .. 81,212 81,212 103,276
£3,096,052 £3,154,747 £3.568,091
Freeholds, leaseholds 931,729 966,685 1,075,863
Plant, fittings, etc. 293,562 324,030 373,779
Investments .. 26.605 17,365 19,2(5
Mortgage .. 63,550 58,000 48,150
Stock .. . . 1,107,306 1,109,328 1,254,660
Debtors . . . . 570,193 555,378 726,881
Cash .. .. 40,473 61,327 .36,771
Goodwill, etc. ~ 62,634 62,634 32,712
£3,096,052 £3,154,747 £3,568,091
Purchases and renovations increased the
book-value of freeholds and leaseholds
by £109,178 to £1,075,863. Plant, fit-
tings, etc., were £49,749 higher at
£373,779. Stock and debtors were
appreciably higher, reflecting the rising
turnover. - Theoretical working-capital
was quite adequate. Net tangible asset-
backing worked out at 9s. 9d. for each
ss. ord. on the consolidated accounts.
The co. is in a strong financial posi-
tion. Turnover has continued to improve
since the balance-date. Increasing sales
are claimed to have sufficiently high
profit-margins to absorb rising costs. Net
earnings since the close of accounts are
said to be better than for the correspond-
ing period in the previous term.
A good wool season this year could
help to increase profits. But, by the same
token, it stresses the co.’s dependence on
an adequate level of country spending,
which leaves it open to fluctuations in
rural incomes. So far Western Stores has
surmounted seasonal difficulties very
creditably.
The co.’s scrip is well thought-of on
the sharemarket. At the last sale in
Sydney the ss. ords. changed hands at
19s. each. The immediate yield is 4 p.c.
on the basis of the new 15 p.c. div.-rate.
Marcus Clark & Co., Ltd.
■Counded in 1883 and registered as a
public co. in Sydney in 1902, retailer
Marcus Clark operates department-stores
in Sydney, Newcastle, Wollongong and
Dubbo, with showrooms in Tamworth
and Inverell (all in N.S.W.). In
addition, there are two subsidiaries,
Bon Marche, Ltd., and Hobsons Pty.
trading in the Sydney metropolitan area.
Another subsidiary, Wilga Productions,
Pty., manufactures mattresses and other
bedding. A controlling-interest is held
in Miller Anderson, Ltd., Adelaide.
The co. depends to a considerable
extent on mail-order country trading,
which leaves it open to the effects of
fluctuations in rural incomes.
Stiffening competition in retail trad-
ing, coupled with seasonal fluctuations
in N.S.W. country areas, has whittled-
down profit-margins. Another competi-
tive disadvantage is the co.’s wariness
of more extensive customer-credit, a
point which is plugged hard by rival
retailers. Earnings have been steadily
decreasing since 1956.
Trading conditions remained highly
competitive last year, and all the sub-
sidiaries suffered reductions in net earn-
ings. Parent’s net profit for the year
ended August 1, 1959, increased by
£14,017 to £97,522, but this was not
enough to reverse the trend. Consolidated
net profit for the year was £15,361
lower at £85,380, after writing-off £55,778
for depreciation (up £8472), paying all
expenses, providing £60,373 for taxation
(down £15,198) and deducting the pay-
out to outside shareholders.
This w:as equivalent to an earning-rate
of almost 8 p.c. on the average ord.
capital after satisfying the unchanged
pref.-div. requirements and compares
with 10.6 p.c. in the previous year.
Last year's net earnings were just
a shade under total div.-requirements,
and £572 was taken from reserves,
further depleted by £2OO capital loss on
liquidation of a sub-subsidiary during
the year, £25,000 transfer to the staff


fund (accumulated long-service leave pro-
vision) and £BOSO goodwill written-off:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
r —Dividends
Prefs. Ords. To Re- Rfc -
Aug., Profit. 6 & 6j p.c. 10 p.c. serves, serves.*
1956 . . 136,613 37,360 55,679 42,57.4 1,128,107
Assets revalued, £698,083 .. "' ,’flrn’i-i
Capital profit, £39,981 .. •• 1>8{?6,171
Tax overprovided, £11,034 .. * *
Unexplained reduction, £1699 . .1,8(5,oOC
0 p c
1957 .. 106,863 t *57,3 6 0 5 4,6 6 7 1 4,836 1,890,342
Tax overprovided, £7OOO .. ” ,’lol’orA
Goodwill w/off. £72,378 .. . • MM,864
W/back ex-stock reserve, £6OOO . . 1-830,964
Unexplained reduction, £2169 . . 1,828,790
8 p.c.
1958 . . 100,741 37,360 48,592 14,789 1.843,584
Capital loss, sub-subsidiary, £2OO • • 1.843,384
To staff fund, £25,000 .. •• 1-818,384
Capital profit, £913
Goodwill w/off, £BOSO .. • • 1.811.247
Asset revaluation, £285,844 • • -.(JO' ,0U
Unexplained reduction, £36,827 . . 2,060,264
1959 . . 85,380 37,360 48,592 2,059,692
* Subject to intangibles, £60,000 at August 1, 1909.
t Includes figures for one subsidiary for 13 months.
One of the surplus properties was sold
at a capital profit of £913. “Following
board policy of valuing all freehold pro-
perties of the co. consistent with Valuer-
General’s valuations” the book-value of
certain freeholds was written-up by
£285,844, credited to assets-revaluation
reserve. However, the full increase in
book-value was not reflected in the con-
solidated balance-sheet. With other
minor adjustments there was a £36,827
net reduction in reserves. Total
accumulations appear at £2,059,692 (sub-
ject to £60,000 intangibles). This supports
a paid capital of £1,205,255 (unchanged)
in £300,000 6 p.c. cum. first prefs.,
£297,848 6i p.c. cum. second prefs. and
1,214,814 10s. ords..:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref .. .. £597,848 £597,848 £597,848
Ord 607,407 607,407 607,4C7
Reserves .. 1,890,342 1,843,584 2,059,692
Outside interests.. 435,788 438,996 439,374
Mortgage . . . . 933,500 959,000 956,100
Overdraft . . .. 618,769 798,147 855,630
Creditors . . . . 532,204 465,843 514,008
Tax provision .. 132,385 113,631 91,995
Final divs. .. 49,050 42,976 42,976
£5,797,293 £5,867,432 £6,165,030
Freeholds .. .. 2,502,138 2,551,697 2,788,248
Plant, fixtures,
leaseholds .. 378,721 392,837 421,964
Shares other cos... 2,806 1,306 1,301
Stock . . . . 1,163,112 1,104,590 1,053,791
Debtors .. .. 1,583,009 1,714,588 1,791,106
Cash . . . . 19,038 19,459 14,552
Inter-co. balances 19,836 26,814 34,068
Intangibles .. 128,633 56,141 60,000
£.5,797,293 £5,867,482 £6,165,030
Overdraft was £57,483 higher at £855,630.
Creditors were £48,165 up at £514,008.
After revaluations and disposals, the
book-value of freeholds showed a net
increase of £236,551. Trading stock was
£50,799 lower at £1,053,791 (after deduct-
ing £268,000 provision for fluctuations).
Debtors were £76,518 higher at £1,791,106
(after taking-off £389,060 provision for
doubtful debts). Theoretical working-
capital seemed adequate at £1,354,840.
Current ratio worked out at 1.9 to 1 on
the consolidated accounts.
Fresh capital was introduced in Novem-
ber last, when the co. issued 404,938 20s.
8 p.c. registered unsecured con. notes,
one 20s. note for each three 10s. ords. at
par. Each note will be converted to two
10s. ords. on lanuary 31, 1965.
If profitably employed, the new funds
may help reverse the steady downward
trend in profits. Because of the similar
8 p.c. interest-rate, the move has the
effect of adding £404,938 to the ord.
capital, except that until maturity the
note-interest will be an allowable deduc-
tion taxwise.
Following a “complete survey of all the
co.’s operations,” some new trading
methods were adopted. Recently it was
reported that trading was improving
throughout the organisation. An 8 p.c.
rise in turnover was claimed for the
first half of the current term.
The subsidiary Bon Marche, Ltd., is
participating in the development of the
new shopping-centre at Liverpool, near
Sydney. A new two-floor store will be
opened about next September, The
store will cover an area of about
60,000 sq. ft., and will be fully air-
conditioned and equipped with an
espresso coffee-lounge. A customer
parking-lot will be provided. Total cost
is estimated at £700,000, including stock.
A smaller store is planned for Lithgow.
Reports of improving sales are en-
couraging, but retail-trade competition is
continuously increasing in intensity.
Drive and imagination are essential to
survive.
The co.’s scrip appears a secure invest-
ment, but dynamic possibilities are
limited. Nor is a quick increase in the
ord. div.-rate likely. However, takeover
possibilities cannot be ruled-out these
days.
At the last sale in Sydney the 10s.
ords. fetched 13s. 3d. each. The imme-
diate yield is 6 p.c. The 20s. 8 p.c. conv.
notes changed hands at 245. 9d. each,
for an immediate return of 6.5 p.c. Net
tangible asset-backing is high at 425. lid.
for each 10s. ord.
Intercolonial Boring Co., Ltd.
The Queensland-registered merchant,
engineer and contractor, Inter-
colonial Boring Co., Ltd., specialises in
supply and manufacture of water-raising
equipment, engineering and mill supplies,
machinery, tools of trade, plumbing and
electric motors.
Administrative centre of the co. is in
Brisbane Ann Street; workshops are
at YeerOngpilly. Branches, all of recent
origin, have been set-up in Townsville,
Rockhampton and Cairns. Distribution
to the southern States is effected through
a store and office in Sydney.
A public co. in 1912, and trading since
1887, 1.8. C. today, in its size and spread,
is largely the product of development
over the last decade, stimulated by
increasing exploitation of Queensland’s
resources.
New capital was raised in 1956. Share-
holders were offered two new shares for
each five then held, paid capital rising
from £344,570 to the present £482,398.
Latest result demonstrates the impact
on record sales of rising costs and
increased competition (combining to cut
profit-margins). In addition, preliminary
expenses associated with the establish-
ment of the Cairns branch were wholly
absorbed during the 12 months. At
£96,036 (£99,045 previous year, the best
ever), and after making provision for
taxation, £57,000 (down £9000) and
setting aside £14,914 for depreciation
(down £193), profit works out a slightly
diminished, but nevertheless satisfactory,
19.9 p.c. on ord. capital; 20.5, 20.1, 21.7
and 25.1 p.c. (the 1955 figure was estab-
lished prior to the two-for-five par issue)
back to 1955:
• To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. r —* —Dividends —serves. serves.
✓ £ £ £ £
1955 . . 86,388 15 p.c. = 51,686 34,702 305,287
1956 .. 90,532 15 „ „ 52,978 37,554 342,841
Profit sale property, £9643 . . . . 352,484
Provision staff-training plan written-
off, £3346 355,830
1957 . . 97,104 15 p.c. = 69,345 27,759 383,589
1958 .. 99,045 15 „ „ 72,360 26,685 410,214
1959 . . 96,036 15 „ „ 72,360 23,676 433,951
Record sales were achieved despite some
slack in the co.’s manufacturing division.
Adequate rains fell in many coastal areas
during the year, and prices fetched by
some primary products were lower. Con-
sequently, orders for pumping and
irrigation equipment declined. A
contrary, but otherwise parallel, situation
developed in 1957. Prolonged drought
conditions, affecting Queensland at tne
time, brought heavy demand for water-
raising equipment.
For the fifth successive year share-
holders have received a div. of 15 p.c.
The yield to investors is 5.3 p.c. at 575.,
the price the 20s. shares fetched last week
oh the Brisbane ’Change.
The balance-sheet is sound representa-
tion of the underlying strengths of
1.8. C.:
y 1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £482,398 £482,398 £482,398
Reserves .. 383,589 410,274 433,951
Mortgage . . 109,000 105,000 101,006
Provision for
property alloca-
tions, etc. .. 2,077
Overdraft ..
Creditors .. .. 140,653 118,246 174,102
Tax provision . . 161,759 169,057 140,900
Staff benefit fund 17,672 17,315 15,868
Final div. .. 36,180 36,180 36,180
£1,333,328 £1,338,470 £1,426,240
Freehold properties 125,431 132,164 161,999
Plant, etc. .. 53,622 97,924 97,192
Advances .. 26,353 16,383 19,587
Investments . . 31,069 76,069 1,069
Stocks . . . . 578,376 582,285 699,625
Debtors, bills re-
ceivable, etc. .. 406,407 380,077 445,373
Cash, deposits, etc. 112,070 53,568 1,395
£1,333,328 £1,338,470 £1,426,240
Reserves rose by £23,677 to a substantial
£433,951. The loan on mortgage was
reduced by £4OOO. Freehold properties
are valued very conservatively (up
£29,835 at £161,999). The book-figures
are based on original purchase-prices,
and in the case of the Brisbane properties
have been much reduced by depreciation
written-off over many years. For
example, the head-office in Ann Street is
worth, on today’s values, something in
the vicinity of £130,000. The book-value,
by comparison, shows it a mere £19,000-
odd. Increases last term reflect (aggregate
freeholds) the extensions at Yeerongpilly
and purchase of land at Townsville —
required for additional storage space.
Stocks, up £117,340 at £699,625, reflect
supplementary holdings as required by
the Cairns branch, expansion of
merchandising activities in Sydney—a
full range of stock is now carried in
Sydney—and, inevitably, rising costs.
Debtors, up £65,296 at £445,373, have
accompanied higher turnover.
Cash £1395 (previously £53,568) has
been replaced by bank overdraft £41,841
(previously non-existent). Theoretical
working capital, up £62,370 at £737,502,


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase
company in Australia,
k
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 fo 10 years VA/
and 15 years # /Q
4 years 6|% 3 years 6% 2 years 51%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at 2\°/o p.a.
Application for Debenture Stock can be
accepted only on the printed form included
in the prospectus. Copies of the full pros-
pectus with application form obtainable from
any A.G.C. Branch, your Stockbroker and
all Branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Assets exceed £.60,
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide
Perth • Hobart
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
Nl
amplifies the strong financial
status of the co.
During the year, invest-
ments dropped £75,000 to
£1069. Presumably short-term
debenture-stock held in Indus-
trial Acceptance Corporation,
Ltd., was sold leaving a small
shareholding in G. H. Martin
Bright Steel.
The current term opened on
a bright note. Good orders
received early in the piece
indicate a possible improve-
ment of profits by next
October (balance-date). 1.8. C.
presses forward with plans
for new and better products.
A new-style borehole pump
is now on the market.
At balance-date, net tangible
cover for the 20s. shares was
a visible 38s.
Mercantile Credits, Ltd.
Tn spite of intensifying com-
petition, and generally
lower h.-p. earnings, Mercan-
tile Credits had a good year,
expanding its business and
increasing profits.
Paid capital grew by
£544,236 to £1,266,086 during
last term as a result of the
3-for-10 par issue in August,
1958, followed by a l-for-5
issue at par in January, 1959.
Borrowings increased by more
than three times, and h.-p.
outstandings, etc., by about
44 p.c.
Founded in 1935, Mercantile
Credits finances sales of
motor - vehicles, machinery,
industrial equipment, house-
hold furniture, domestic
appliances, etc.
The co. now operates in five
States, and is based on Sydney.
About 25 p.c. of its capital
is held by firms in the Hardie
group.
Last term “a record volume
of business'’ was, transacted
with a higher profit. Due to
increased operating costs and
stamp-duty, the profit-ratio
fell. In addition, the year had
the benefit of only a part of
the oversubscribed debenture-
issue which closed in May,
1959. “The full benefits should
be reflected” this term.
The Melbourne and Bris-
bane branches continued to
improve. The wholly-owned
subsidiary “traded profit-
ably.”
Consolidated gross income
for the year ended June 30,
1959, increased by £392,217 to
£1,035,807. Expenses almost
doubled.
After deducting £29,775
note-issue expenses, providing
£5582 for depreciation and
setting aside £121,014 for
taxation (up £18,121), con-
solidated net profit for the
year was £20,645 higher at
£193,839:
Consolidated Accounts.
Re-
June, Profit. —Dividends ~ serves.*
£ £ £
Tax overprovided, £6863 .. 37,178
’54.. 59,709 15 p.c. = 30,000 66,887
Added intangibles, £7281 .. 59,606
’55.. 95,695 15 p.c. = 52,500 102,801
Reduction intangibles, £1605 104,406
’56..122,927 15 p.c. = 75,000 152,333
Reduction intangibles, £1892 154,225
To provision long-service
leave, £I6OO .. .. 152,625
’57.. 152,820 15 p.c. =108,278 197,167
Parent and Subsidiary.
Less goodwill on consolida-
tion, £3389 .. .. 193,778
Tax overprovided, £6498 .. 200,276
Added intangibles, £32,445 167,831
’SB. .173,194 15 p.c. e=108,278 232,747
Added intangibles, £57,493 175,254
’59.. .193,839 15 p.c. = 150,553 218,540
* After deducting intangibles, £112,111
at 30/6/’59.
This was equivalent to an
earning-rate of 19.3 p.c. on
the higher average capital,
compared with 24 p.c. in the
preceding term and 21 p.c. in
1957, 24.6 p.c. in 1956 and
27.3 p.c. in 1955.
The div. - rate remained
steady at 15 p.c., absorbing
£150,553. Reserves benefited
by £43,286, but were reduced
by added intangibles (£57,493)
to £218,540.
Expanding business called
for more funds. Concurrent
with the August, 1958, 3-for-10
issue at par, subscribers
were obliged to take-up 10
20s. 7 p.c. notes with every
three shares.
This was followed by a
l-for-5 issue at par in January,
1959, bringing paid capital to
£1,266,086 in 20s. ords. at
June 30, 1959.
Snowballing capital-raisings
continued into the current
year. A l-for-4 par issue of
£379,022 20s. ords. was made
last May, accompanied by a
private placement of £300,000
20s. 7 p.c. prefs. The com-
bined effect was to raise paid
capital to £1,945,108.
Since the balance-date,
Mercantile Credits acquired
Invicta Finance Co., Ltd.
(Adelaide), and established an
office in Perth. This extended
the co.’s operations into five
States.
A determined bid was made
to acquire Beale and Co.,
Ltd., of Annandale (N.S.W.).
Borrowings increased by
£5,034,429 “to £7,171,829
(excluding £489,425 current
liabilities), including £2,203,379
term-deposits, £2,393,750 first-
mortgage debentures and
£2,574,700 secured notes.
The co.’s first issue of notes
in 1955 (£887,400) matured on
June 30, 1959. Holders of
£332,750 notes extended the
date at a higher interest-rate.
Another £154,190 notes were
converted to term-deposits.
Current liabilities decreased
by £2,461,704 to £489,425:
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £721,850 £1,266,086
Reserves .. 287,365 330,651
Notes .. .. 2,137,400 7,171,829
Unearned income T, 130,167 1,510,175'
Current
liabilities* . . 2,951,129 489,425
Final div. . . 54,139 85,481
£7,282,050 £10,853,647
Fixed assets . . 154,955 322,085
H.-p. debts, etc. v 7,072,477 10,419,451
Intangibles .. 54,618 112,111
£ 7,232,050 £10,853,647
* Includes deposits, sundry creditors,
tax-provision, etc.
Unearned income increased
by £380,008 to £1,510,175,
representing 14.66 p.c. of out-
standings.
Current assets, including
h.-p. and leasing outstand-
ings not disclosed separately,
were £3,346,974 higher at
£10,419,451. As in other h.-p.
firms, little is tied-up in
book-debts, and the figure for
total current assets is a very
good indication of the trend
and volume of business.
Net tangible asset-backing
worked out at 235. 6d. for each
20s. ord. on the consolidated
accounts.
The major part of the co.’s
activities remains in the con-
sumer-finance field and strong
connections exist with the retail
trade, particularly in Sydney,
where h.-p. sales are handled
for Grace Bros., Anthony Hor-
derns, Mark Foys, etc.
Mounting costs necessitate a
constant growth in turnover,
in turn calling for an ever
larger volume of borrowings.
Capital structure must be
geared to match the rising loan-
funds.
Mercantile Credits is in a
strong position, with a growing


Lafec
Investments
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) Of £1,000.000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
INVEST NOW
Interest rates:
8% per annum 3 years or more
7% per annum 2 years
6% per annum | year
5% per annum months
o.
i
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS OR MORE
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000. ASSET BACKING, £1,086
FOR EACH £lOO OF REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Application for Debentures may only be made on the application
Forms attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
PARKER & STEWART
Underwriting Brokers,
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
56 Hunter Street, ""
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: 8W1057,
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or direct from the Company
or its subsidiaries.
LATEC FINANCE PTY. LTD.
113-115 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: FA 6681.
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Latec House,
741 Hunter Street,
NEWCASTLE WEST, N.S.W.
Phone: MA 4344.
SY3O6IAB
LftTEC INVESTMENTS LI MI TED
business. Its performance in
the immediate future depends
on how well it will digest the
large increases in equity and
loan funds, and also on the
economic climate of the coun-
try. So far its earning and
dividend record has been satis-
factory. Reports for this year
are optimistic.
At the last sale in Sydney the
20s. ords fetched 50s. 9d. each,
CA-rights. Rights were traded
at 275. 9d. and options at
335. 6d. a unit. The immediate
yield is 5.9 p.c. on the basis of
the 15 p.c. div.-rate.
Associated Minerals Con-
solidated, Ltd.
A ustralia possesses large
areas of mineralised beach-
sands, rutile, zircon, ilmenite,
etc. Richest deposits, barring
ilmenite, occur along the
eastern coast of the continent.
The boom in demand for these
metals has disappeared and,
generally speaking, the industry
is operating at a much reduced
level.
However, Associated
Minerals Consolidated, Ltd.,
extracting rutile and zircon
from beach-sands at Cudgen
(northern N.S.W.) and South-
port (Queensland), is running
contrarywise to the industry as
a whole, sales last term (the
twelve months to June 30,
1959) reaching a record
£940,340. Sales included 14,995
tons of rutile (up 2985 tons
and equal to 19.4 p.c. of total
Australian sales) and 18,775
tons of zircon (up 14,673 tons,
equal to 22.4 p.c. of total
sales).
The year saw fair demand
for rutile, mainly from over-
seas sources, but prices re-
mained low. Zircon, on the
other hand, commanded a
buoyant market, increased pro-
duction paying handsome divi-
dends. The demand for zircon
has remained firm.
Installation of highly mecha-
nised equipment failed to block,
but did soften, the full impact
of rising costs. Profits from
sale of minerals, after charging
production, management and
administration expenses, fell
£24,150 to £359,936. Net
profit after taxation £86,005
(up £11,004) and depreciation
£106.146 (up £10,908) finished
£46,062 down at £167,785.
Dividends were reduced, an
aggregate 2s. 6d. handout,
absorbing £80,250, replacing
the previous ss. distribution —
capital is held in 642,000 fully
paid ss. ords. Reserves rose, in
all, £56,535 to £282,740.
Assets include mine develop-
ment, machinery, freeholds,
leaseholds, etc., £339,939 (down
£12,150), investments £150,000,
short-term deposits and Com-
monwealth Treasury bonds
acquired during the year, cash,
deposits, etc., £27,587 (up
£7396), stocks, stores, etc.,
£74,799 (up £5602), and sun-
dry debtors £46,866 (down
£43,446). Bank overdraft,
creditors, etc., rose £9611 to
£110,057.
Initial contracts secured
early in the current term point
to reasonable returns in the
immediate future, but overseas
demand continues to wane and
it is extremely improbable that
present performances will
parallel last term’s effort.
Proven ore - reserves are
extensive.
Directors of Associated
Minerals, fully cognisant of
the susceptibility of
rutile and zircon prices to
variations in world supply and
demand, have embarked on a
programme designed ultimately,
it is hoped, to iron-out the
otherwise inevitable fluctua-
tions in earning-power of the
co. A licence-arrangement has
been entered into with a
French firm ; the object to
market and later manufacture
a zirconium-based tanning
compound. Other projects are
being investigated so as to
further diversify the co.’s
activities.
Fetching 14s. last September,
Associated Minerals’ scrip
now hovers around 10s. 6d.,
interim divs. (each of
as -against 7|d. in the pre-
ceding year) declared in
February and May this year,
no doubt affecting the market
premium. The interim divs.
indicate a 30 p.c. handout
(Is. 6d.) for the current term.


INVESTORS ! ! \
INVESTMENT
ADVISORY BUREAU
offers a
12 MONTHS' SERVICE
• Keep informed on the latest Stock Exchange moves
by subscribing to our investment letter service.
• A.M.I. shareholders know of our amazing predic-
tions on these and other shares made last year.
• M.K.U. shareholders are still discussing our
predictions.
• These are but a few of the wonderfully accurate
forecasts subscribers* have enjoyed from our service.
• Send £5/5/-, fill in the coupon below and receive a
FREE COPY of our June letter.
INVESTMENT ADVISORY BUREAU,
Suite 19, 377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
NAME _ , 1 •
ADDRESS
Phono
London arimail
From Herbert Holman
TPhe money-market is passing
* through an uncertain
period, with the professionals
cautious and a little apprehen-
sive over the balance-of-pay-
ments position and the chance
of wages-costs inflation in the
autumn. Financial writers are
inclined to be cagey and mark
time: the optimist and the
pessimist could both be proved
wrong in a few months.
Yet the individual especi-
ally the small investor —remains
optimistic and, one is given to
understand, is largely respon-
sible for the firmness of the
markets.
The motor-car trade tends to
act as a barometer, and there
are indications that the hire-
purchase restrictions introduced
just over a month ago caused
a sharp fall in the number of
agreements and also in the
prices of second-hand cars.
Granted that Jack is any-
thing but idle (the shorter the
hours the longer he works), his
enjoyment of private motoring
can hardly be unqualified, for,
at the times he takes his
pleasure, the roads are choked.
(According to one seasoned
motorist, who now rarely uses
his car other than for business,
the driver who can survive six
months without a crushed wing
or worse is lucky indeed.) Yet
the waiting-lists for new models
are still long.
Will there be a recession in
the autumn? Will the Chan-
cellor step in with further con-
trols? These are possibilities,
but who, in a lovely early sum-
mer, cares very much? Never-
theless, the ordinary fellow has
suffered one or two mild
shocks. Transport fares, inevit--
ably, have risen and the build-
ing-societies have increased
their rate of interest on mort-
gages to six per cent.
One man, in an indignant
letter to a newspaper, pointed
out that when he bought his
house he planned to repay the
mortgage on his retirement at
65, but, because of adjustments
on successive increases in the
rate of interest, he will now
have to keep on paying until
he is 75 —a circumstance which
doesn’t exactly lead to thoughts
of a contented old age and
which is a harsh reminder that
the world is less kind to those,
unlike Jack and others, who are
unable to provide themselves
with a rising income.
L.P. Decade
Just ten years ago the first
long-playing records came on
the market. Since then the in-
dustry has trebled its capacity.
In 1959, 15,500,000 331-r.p.m.
and 43,000,000 45-r.p.m. were
sold. The turnover was £3O
million for records alone.
In 1950 —and for a year or
two afterwards only three
shops in Central London
carried substantial stocks of
LP's and had the know-how to
advise prospective buyers as to
equipment, performance and
recording quality. The best-
known and longest-established
manufacturing company was
not merely reluctant to enter
the new field but did its best
to crab it. Dealers, it was said,
held large stocks of shellac
records which were “all that
was required for a large pro-
portion of music.” They feared
losing their livelihood. Records
at 6s. were readily saleable but
not, they thought, at £2.
A former stockbroker who
had taken control of a not out-
standingly successful record-
company -was undeterred by
this excessive caution and kept
to his plan. He was convinced
that vinyl records would oust
shellac records and his selling-
point high-quality perform-
ance and recording, rather than
the name on the label —would
pay-off. The rest is well known
to gramophiles, the Stock Ex-
change and, to mention only
one auxiliary development,
harbor-masters throughout the
world.
Agincourt and AH That
“Henry V” is not a play
suited to modern thought. The
jingoism is embarrassing, the
bloodthirstiness revolting and
the Shakspearean comic relief
too often unfunny. Yet we
have had, surprisingly, two
productions within an interval
of weeks.
At “The Mermaid,” Bernard
Miles and his associates tried
to work a miracle by turning
it inside out and making it into
an anti-war play. John Neville,
who has taken a little time off
from his high commercial suc-
cesses in musical comedy and
films to return to the Old Vic
as guest producer, has no such
unorthodox pretensions.
His approach is individual
yet traditional. While he in-
troduces devices and innova-
tions, he doesn’t titivate Shak-
speare out of recognition by all
manner of producer’s tricks
and gimmicks.
His opening, at first sight,
promises the worst: the full
stage, with a large “No Smok-
ing” notice at the rear ; then a
couple of stagehands, under
the direction of the stage-
manager, remove a superfluous
property and Chorus, in open-
necked shirt and slacks, strolls
on to speak his prologue.
The result is quite magical
for it not only enhances the
illusion but sets the play back
in time and in mood. A cyclo-
rama, bearing a map of the
Channel and the opposing
coasts, reveals the transforma-
tion. It follows that scenery is
token only and that the actors
can move freely, although on a
rather precarious incline.
Neville employs them visually,
with lovely grouping and un-
usual lighting effects.
He also uses, less effectively,
a passage-of-time device in the
shape of a covered wagon (Oh,
that one had not seen “Mother
Courage”!) which progressively
becomes more tattered until,
the battle over, it is an utter
wreck.
The oral part is less reward-
ing, for he takes the production
at such a spanking pace and on
such a high note that the actors
become breathless and the
scene-shifters so overeager as
to be visible.
Donald Houston spea k si
(quite properly, since the King
was born at Monmouth) with a
Welsh accent but makes rather
a stolid commander, despite
his fury and passion. Never-
theless, the night scene is elo-
quent and beautiful. Judi
Dench, who seemed to be
becoming typed as a nice Eng-
lish girl, refreshingly emerges
as a fluent and by no means
spiritless Katherine. Joss Ack-
land’s Pistol, greasy-voiced and
ponderous, is a departure from
tradition and out -of - key,
though a perfect Morton Mit-
cham. Among a good, though
apparently under - rehearsed,
supporting-cast, Wales carries
away the honors. We have
never seen a better Fluellen
than Gerald James’s.


THE BLUE DOG
By
R. B. MORRIS
Beyond Omeo the road
scrambles up in a big
loop, and round the
far side of the loop I
pulled the Austin up and looked
back at the yellow streaks
which were autumn poplars
along the river.
I was standing in sunshine,
and the small gold flowers
pocking the dried grass at the
roadside still held their faces
wide to the sun. But clouds
like sponges ripe for squeezing
hustled up the slope and 1
drove on through the bush to-
wards Hotham Heights.
1 had camping-gear with me,
and had no intention of putting
up at the Chalet, rain or no
rain. Thus, shortly before
sundown I followed a shy
track which ducked behind a
swathe of bulky gums as soon
as it left the road. In a smail
clearing a few cattle browsed
over the native grasses, fat and
sleek from summer pasture.
They watched me mildly when
I stepped out of the car. Then
they turned and strolled into
the bush.
A man rode down the track
some minutes later, a wiry blue
cattledog shadowy at the heels
of his horse. He pulled-up
when he saw me, nodded, and
dropping his reins on the
horse’s neck, rolled himself a
smoke.
“G’day,” he said after an
interval.
1 responded in kind, measur-
ing the dog with my eyes. It
was pretty small as cattle-
dogs go.
“Nice spot for a camp,” said
the horseman.
“Yes. Wants for water, but
I carry a bit.”
TTE looked pleased. “Reckon
I can help you. There's a
decent-sized pool through the
trees a bit. Say quarter- to
half-a-mile down the track and
to your right. Decent water.
Good-oh for drinking.”
i thanked him. “You know
t h ese hills well, I suppose?”
“Reckon you might say that,
A 1 been about these parts,
ft, , s a few of us blokes out
mustering the cattle bo-
fore he snow comes Me
a|)d mate have a c
down , he road a bi , »
He dismounted and ave m e
hand wjth the tent xhe
d was hard as mallee .
an<j my p , ns ben( as w .
hammered them in. While I
ked my gear he lit me a
fire P and set J f he bil | y on it>
inni at his fac / the
° hining B me tal.
.. sh J uld see old
B|acke| , n , he insic f e of a J ow .“
He stood “P- “ Wrfl - be seeing
you, mate.”
“Stay for a mug of tea,” I
protested, not liking him doing
so much for nothing in return.
He shook his head, sliding-
up on to his horse.
“Ta all the same. My mate'll
be waiting.” He shrugged his
broad shoulders humorously.
“Funny thing, ain’t it? There’s
a bloke's tackled wild bulls
single-handed, slept in scrub
alive with snakes, ridden
meaner horses than most. And
he’s all of a jibber because of
this Bateman joker. They tell
you about Bateman?”
I nodded. “Sergeant Mc-
Intyre at Omeo. But they're
not sure he’s over this side.”
“No. Reckon he’s over near
Harrietville. Bateman's an old
bushman, for all he’s been so
long in the Smoke. Know a
bloke from Orbost as knew
him. This bloke says he’s a
good man in the bush.”
“I thought of him when you
rode in,” I admitted. “It was
the dog.”
He chuckled. “Spotted you
looking at Bluey. Bateman
pinched his dog off Tom Dance
at Moe, three-four years back.
Last time he came out of
Pentridge. Tom is kind of
proud of that dog, now it’s
made the newspapers. Too
big for cattle, though. Don’t
know how Tom came to breed
one so big. Weil, so long.”
The rattling clip-clop of iron
hooves on stones faded into the
gathering blackness.
TV/Ty billy boiled over, hissing
-*-*-*- into the red embers. I
cooked my meal and sat at
ease with my back against the
car’s front bumper. The rain-
clouds had squibbed the long
climb up the mountain. The
sky was clean as a calm sea.
Somewhere, far off in the
bush, a wild dog mourned to
the thin slip of a moon. Closer
at hand invisible cattle grunted.
And somewhere a frog wobbled
a deep croak up and down its
bulging throat.
The stillness brought me
close t 5 the ice-cold stars. I
wanted to reach up and touch
the purple just above the tree-
tops. A great peace filled my
mind like a sweet, clean mist,
sweeping away the nervous
tensions like so much rubble.
I silently blessed my doctor for
insisting I get away from the
city for a break.
Mesmerised by the magic
hush I sat on over my dying
fire. Somewhere in the wilder-
ness of quiet trees a small owl
hooted:
Mo-poke. Mo-poke.
The „ two little prodding
syllables enhanced the silence
rather than destroyed it.
the moon fell behind the
trees, too young and tender to
be late out of bed. I stirred,
and threw a rotten log on to
the slow cGals of my fire.
White nylon gauze rose in
wispy puffs from the ashes,
then a flame flowered from the
old wood, painting an orange
circle round my legs, and
setting the frieze of black tree-
trunks jumping.
As before I had heard the
rattle of hooves on stones grow-
ing fainter, so now I heard the
same sound coming closer.
Then there was abrupt silence.
From beyond my fence of dark-
ness a horse sighed heavily,
wearily.
“Mind if I join you, mate?”
said a plaintive voice.
“Come on in, and welcome.”
I kicked the fire together and
put the billy on again.
A small man came into the
firelight, rubbing his hands
together and stamping his feet
to ease the stiffness out of his
knees.
“Tied me horse up.” He
jerked his head over his
shoulder.
He stood close to the fire,
looking uneasily round the
black perimeter. He shivered,
and caught me watching him.
A sheepish grin struggled on
to his lips.
“I —er —don’t like them
birds,” he averred, and to my
surprise a faint blush crept up
his weathered stubble-rough
face.
“What? The mopoke?”
“That's him. Gets me
goat.”
I looked at him sceptically.
“There’s another chap down
the road who’s scared of
Bateman, too,” I said unkindly.
“Bateman!” The little man
made a rude gesture. “That
for Bateman. A man’s nothing,
not if he’s robbed fifty banks.


Not a Bank but Safe as a Bank
CUSTOM CREDIT
NOTES
4 year5....7%
3 years.... 6Va%
2 year5....6%
18 months.. 5Va%
12 months.. 5V4%
9 months.. 4 3 />%
6 months.. 4'/i%
3 months.. 3%%
14 days' call 2'/*%
Interest Is paid In equal quarterly
instalments, tree of exchange, on
the last days of June, September!
December and March.
A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue
of Custom Credit Notes has been lodged with
the Registrar of Companies. Sydney.
The Prospectus and Forms of Application
for Notes are now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
Every branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the 43 Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. ’Phone: FM 5861
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE
(Assets in Australia Exceed £80,000,0001
CCN50.560
But there’s lots of blokes is
scared of something unreason-
able. Might be spilling salt,
or sharks, or telegrams. I
just can’t seem to take them
birds. Been like it since a
kid. Something for them
psycho-blokes.”
I didn’t believe him, but let
the matter drop. He brought
the talk back to Bateman after
I’d filled him up with tea and
we’d both stretched out under
a stack of blankets. I’d
planned to be snug even if the
weather turned Russian, so
there was plenty of bedding.
Tt would have been sacrilege
to spend such a night in
the tent, and I lay beside the
fire with the nostalgic scent
of woodsmoke in my nostrils
and watched the black leaves
of the trees quaking under the
vision of Heaven.
“That Bateman,” began the
man from the other side of
the fire. “What’s the latest
from the cops?”
“Oh, that he’s gone through
Dargo and made for the
bush.”
There was a pause.
“Us cattlemen had better
watch out,” he said at length.
“No knowing where he
mightn’t bob-up. Hell, I wish
that bastard’d stop!”
“It’s only a little owl.”
“I know. Haven’t I told
meself a hundred times.
Trouble is, I won’t listen.
About that Bateman . . .”
“Probably over to Harriet-
ville,” I said. “Don’t fret
about him.”
He snorted. “I ain’t fretting.
He ain’t so much.”
“Well, he’s wanted for three
bank-robberies, two cases of
assault, and now for murder.
That’s something.”
“Oh, well” grudgingly.
“P’raps it’s something. Meself,
I’d be more windy of the dog
they say he’s got. Those blues
can be worse’n a stack of
tiger-snakes.”
“The police at Omeo said
something about a big blue
dog.”
“That’s right. I’ve got a
pertikler liking for them blue
dogs. Had a beauty once.
Matter of fact, I’ve got one
now. Not with me,” he
explained painstakingly. “But
I got one. Now if Bateman’s
got one of them blue Queens-
land dogs I’ll bet any money
the dog’s the brains of the
outfit.”
T accepted this in silence.
The little bloke was
obviously going to ride a
hobbyhorse.
“Seen Bateman?” he went
on. “Seen his picture?
I have. Silly sort of a mug.
Not much bigger than me.
The sort of bloody oaf that'd
be scared of white mice.
Well” —sheepishly—“of little
owls. Know what I think?”
“I think you’re talking
through your hat,” I said
amiably, not bothering to
smother a yawn, hoping to
stop him so that I could sleep.
In the firelight I saw his
small brown eyes flash.
“1 am, am I?” he said
angrily, raising himself onto
his elbow.
He paused. A small breeze
tickled the fire and the flame
bloomed high over the embers.
I watched him sitting hunched
under his blankets with wisps
of grey hair sliding down to
meet his eyebrows. Then he
grunted.
“What the hell?”
He snuggled down into his
blankets, cursing the mopoke.
I was nearly asleep, but he
was a persistent talker; as
persistent as the bird way out
there in the bush.
“Was trying to truck an old
bull once,” he said. “Had the
bull in the yard and the truck
bang-up to the loading-race.
Couldn’t get the brute in for
love nor sugar-doodles. The
dog’n I were knocked-up and
the bull was paddling in blood.
They bite better’n sharks, them
blues. But the old bull went
stubborn on us and wash’t
going up that ramp, not if
the heeler was to gnaw his
feet off one by one.
“I give-in at length. Didn’t
have a decent swear left.
Proper knocked-up. I opened
the yard-gate and gave the
brute a kick in the belly for
a goodbye kiss. Then damned
if the dog didn’t plant hisself
in the way. I gave him a
kick, too, for good measure,
but he just ducked and kept
on shoving the bull back and
telling me to shut the ruddy
gate.
“Well, I thought I’d humor
the poor coot, so I did. I
shut it.
“Quick as blinking your eye
that dog was off down the
paddock. I sat down to have
a bit of a blow, after giving
the bull another kick just to
make him mind his manners.
“Just finished me second
smoke when the dog come
back, driving as juicy a little
heifer as you ever saw. Not
one of mine. The dog must’ve
pinched her from me neigh-
bor. Anyway, I opens the
gate while the bull stands there
licking his lips. Up the ramp
goes Miss Cow, and up after
her goes the old fellow, and
they’re in. And she brought
a better price’n what he did,”
he ended reflectively.
“You’re a damned old
rogue,” I said severely, wide-
awake again:
He grinned, showing worn-
down, clay-colored fangs.
“Point is, who had the
brains? The blue dog or me?”
“How would that dog set
about organising a bank-
robbery?” I asked, amused in
spite of myself.
“You’d be surprised. Bet
you any money you like to
name you’d be real surprised
at how Bateman’s blue dog
organised him to rob a bank.”
“No bet,” I said hastily. “I
would. I'd be astonished.”
He gave a little cackle of
laughter, then yawned.
“Nightie-night, mate. Guess
I feel like a bit of shut-eye.
If it wasn’t for that owl I’d
be good-oh.”
TTaving successfully robbed
me of my sleep, he pro-
ceeded to use it himself. In
a few moments the sound of
his snoring rumbled across the
fire, completely drowning the
half-fascinating, half-madden-
ing call of the mopoke.
I pulled my blankets close
about my ears and stared
into the fire. Slowly the
red glare died from
the coals. One by one the
embers dimmed to black char-
coal and grey ash. A cobweb
of smoke floated over the last
pink spark. Then I slept.
Someone shook me by the
shoulder, gruffly ordering me
to wake-up. My eyes struggled
(Continued on page 43)


Champagne for Breakfast
By NANCY CATO
They live on the edge of
Kensington, the outer-
most fringe of respect-
ability, beyond which
lies the “impossible” address
of Notting Hill, in that strange
no-man’s-land of London in-
habited by retired colonels,
decayed gentlewomen, and
dogs.
The two old women hate
each other with an undying
hatred. Only a curtain divides
their bed-sitting-room, and one
is forever complaining that the
other snores, or reads with the
light on and keeps her awake.
They take their complaints
regularly to the blandly un-
sympathetic proprietor.
The former lady-in-waiting
to Queen Victoria’s daughter
wears lace at her withered
throat, and a brooch which the
late Queen gave her in person.
She is tall, gauntly thin, and
her head shakes continually
with a nervous tremor. She
and her room-mate occupy
separate tables at breakfast,
and address not a word to each
other.
The travelled widow, whose
husband was Something in the
Middle East, is full of reminis-
cences; but she can no longer
distinguish between adventures
which have really happened,
and those she has dreamed or
imagined. Almost every even-
ing she leaves a long, care-
fully-written document for the
proprietor, recounting her day’s
doings. She is haggardly hand-
some, with a husky, imperious
voice.
“Dear Mr. Mackie,” she
writes, “my car was involved
in a collision on the way to the
city, this morning, and it
appears that the occupants of
the other vehicle were bank
robbers just escaping with the
loot. Two detectives ques-
tioned me all the morning.
“I was unable to give a clear
description of the men, being
still shocked from the accident.
However, should an officer
from Scotland Yard call this
evening ...”
Their greatest excitement is
their morning’s shopping in
nearby Vicarage Gate or Ken-
sington High Street, for the
tit-bits which eke out their un-
satisfactory meals. On the
week-ends no meals are pro-
vided; they cook snacks on the
shilling-in-the-slot gas-rings in
their room. Mrs. Fitzgilbert
loves kippered herrings; Miss
Mellowship cannot bear the
smell of them.
In the shops, at least, they
can still be addressed as
“Madam” with the deference
due to their accent and their
moth-eaten manner of com-
mand. A short walk takes
them to Kensington Gardens
where all men are equal about
the Round Pond, or in the
opposite direction to Holland
House, the derelict home of a
lord.
T>eyond the crumbling walls
of the bombed house are
formal lawns and rose-arbors
where wild peacocks roam.
There are elm-tree walks and
walled gardens, urns and statu-
ary ; and here, imagining
former glories, they walk un-
conscious of the overpowering
odor of decay.
In their rooming - house,
grandiosely advertised as a
“comfortable private hotel,”
they have neither comfort nor
privacy. They pay more than
they can afford, for indifferent
accommodation, so as to have
that address on their dwindling
mail: “Kensington, S.W.”
Miss Mellowship waylays me
halfway down the stairs, before
breakfast. Behind his just-
open door I can hear the
Colonel, who hates women,
breathing heavily as he waits
for us to be gone.
“My dear,” she says rapidly
in my ear, “I want you to sit
at my table, between us, you
know; so she can’t see me.
She doesn’t know I've got a pot
of strawberry-jam, and if she
does she’ll steal it while I’m
asleep.”
“Oh, I don’t think Mrs. Fitz-
gilbert”—,
“Yes, she’s a terrible thief,
quite unscrupulous. I always
pin the dear Queen’s brooch
under my pillow at night.”
At breakfast I sit like a buffer-
State between two warlike
nations. Mrs. Fitzgilbert and
Miss Mellowship both address
me, but ignore one another
The waitress, who is also the
kitchenmaid and chambermaid
and who knows the last details
of their pitiful possessions,
treats them with the contempt
due to the old and poor.
They are unaware, or affect
to be unaware, of her jeering
tone. They are both a little
deaf.
“All right, all right, you'll
get it when I'm ready,” says
the waitress bullyingly when
Miss Mellowship asks where is
of tea. “What’s the
hurry, yer ladyship?”
Miss Mellowship ignores
this. She wants the pot of tea
to hide the strawberry-jam
behind.
“Ai had the most extraordin-
ary adventure in an umbrella-
shop yesterday, mai dear,”
says Mrs. Fitzgilbert. Her
sunken eyes fix me with a
glittering stare. There is egg
on her chin.
“She’s mad, you know,” says
Miss Mellowship. “Raving
mad.”
“It was all quaite extraordin-
ary, really. Ai recognised this
magnificent State umbrella
from the court of the Emperor
of Abyssinia—cloth of gold
with tassels, you know—and it
was going for a song.
“Then, just as Ai was about
to purchase it (for sentimental
reasons, as the Emperor was
such a friend of mai dear hus-
band's) a black man rushed in
—black as ebony, but wearing
these magnificent d amonds—
snatched it practically from my
hand, threw down a faive-
pound note before the pro-
prietor, and disappeared.”
“Perhaps it was a Djinn,” I
say politely.
“Gin? Eh? No, no, he was
quaite sober in appearance.”
“I meant a sort of Afrit. If
he just vanished in a puff of
smoke”—
“No, no, no, you don’t listen.
It was in a gold-plated Daim-
ler. He took the umbrella,
dashed out the door to his wait-
ing car, and drove away.”
“She’s mad. Mad as a
hatter, I tell you . . . Once on
the Riviera, when we were


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You ran educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINF.PENCE ONLY
each week.
JFitiUi in ihe
\
Fubire
Quality is one thing to which we should be
raising our higher sights now, when the difference
between “good” and “best” in performance is going
to have a tremendous effect on the rate of
Australia’s progress.
And by Quality I mean more than the ability
to improve our methods in the production of
material items. That is a single effect —a most
essential and desirable effect —of something much
more important: the standard of mind and spirit
we cultivate within ourselves.
Let us look at it this way: Australia is growing
in numbers. It is also growing in youth. One
glance at the statistical tables will show that the
coming years are going to find proportionately
more in our younger age-groups.
As Australia expands in prosperity, a higher
percentage of young life will be available to carry
on the work of its advancement. But more
significant than the numbers or the age of our
people is the worth that each carries within himself,
or herself, as an individual.
Men call it Quality. It is an attitude of mind.
It reflects how people think and act ' and live.
Governments have not the power to order it, no
merchant can import it. It resides in the person.
The possession of it, individually and
collectively, is supremely important to us as we
move in a world where change is continual, where
improvements pile one upon the other in the rush
of human achievement.
For us, then, there can be no compromising
with Quality; no relaxing in our effort to attain
and to keep it.
And for those youngsters who are coming up
to inherit the rich tomorrow, there can be no
substitute for those high personal standards they
will be required to reach in making a life —as
distinct from making a living.
The world changes, but the real values of life
are changeless. A century —ten centuries —from
now. the attributes that can crowd greatness upon
Australia today will still be wrapped up in the one
word: Quality.
living aboard the yacht of the
Grand Duke” —
“ 'Ere you are, Duchess.
Pot o’ tea one.”
“Thank you, my good
woman. I hope its strong?
Her late Highness could not
bear a weak cup of tea, and
I became used” —
“I bet your insides are tanned
like an old boot,” says the
waitress.
“What was that remark?”
“Never mind, Mrs. Fitz-
gilbert. You were telling me
about the Grand Duke s
yacht.”
“Yes; well, one night the
captain, who had always been
a most reliable man, the Duke
said, went mad and started
throwing valuable furniture
overboard. They said he’d been
drinking seawater, but it's my
belief he’d found a crate of
champagne in the forward
locker. The Grand Duke in-
variably drank champagne for
breakfast.”
/Champagne for breakfast! I
looked about the gloomy
basement dining - room, too
small, too crowded with tables,
and with barred windows open-
ing half below street-level; part
of the old servants’ quarters
when this was a fashionable
home, and haunted still by “the
damp souls of housemaids.”
Miss Mellowship looks about
her, too. as though suddenly
aware of what she has come
down to Instead of the smog-
smeared window with its heavy
bars, she sees a porthole look-
ing on to a sparkling harbor,
the Parade des Anglais with its
palms twinkling in the breeze,
and white houses climbing the
hills to a deep-blue sky.
She shivers, so that her head
trembles more than ever, and
her frail, freckled hands curve
about the warmth of her tea-
cup.
“I'd give anything to go
south for the winter,” she
murmurs. “You don’t know
how I dread the London win-
ters. You’ll be off to the south
of France soon, I suppose.
You young things! The world
is yours.”
“I won’t be in London, any-
way. I’m going home to Aus-
tralia.”
“Australia!” To her it is as
exotic as Siberia or Rangoon.
“Sunshine! Ah, if only you
could take me with you.”
“Australia? Where’s that ?”
asks Mrs. Fitzgilbert peremp-
torily. “Ah yes,, Ai know.
Where the wool comes from.
Mai cousin Barnie —Sir Barn-
field Hartwick now —went out
to a sheep station as a young
man. Insufferably hot place,
isn't it?”
“Parts of it are hot. There
is more snow-country than in
the whole of Switzerland,
though, and in Tasmania the
temperature sometimes drops
to fourteen-below in bad win-
ters.”
“Snow? Ai don’t believe a
word of it. It would inevitably
melt before it reached the
ground. But speaking of hot
places, Ai once had the most
amazing adventure in Algiers.
There was this ring of inter-
national spies with their head-
quarters in Morocco”—
“Mad! Quite mad!”
“Look, ducks, I can’t wait all
morning for your plate. Have
yer finished or avencher?”
As the waitress removes the
teapot, Miss Mellowship
snatches her pot of strawberry-
jam and hides it beneath the
cloth. I hastily fold my napkin
and prepare to escape. Miss
Mellowship leans towards me.
“It’s such a change to have
some intelligent conversation,
my dear,” she whispers loudly.
“I mean, after that”—with a
glare at her room-mate.
Mrs. Fitzgilbert grasps my
arm as I go past her table to
the door. “My dear, you don’t
know what a relief it is to have
you here. Sometimes Ai think
Ai’ll go mad if Ai have to look
ai that any longer,” and she
nods with grim aversion at
Miss Mellowship.
And yet, who knows what a
few months of sunshine might
do for their souls? It would be
an interesting experiment for
some philanthropically-minded
millionaire. I leave them
among the dregs of tannic acid
and the bitter parings of
marmalade, and go out into the
November fog.


Choosing Presidential Candidates
It’s U.S. Election-year
With the United States due to
elect a new' President in Nov-
ember, cables from America have
in recent months made frequent
reference to the chances of various
candidates, but it is doubtful whether
many newspaper-readers have a very
clear picture of what is involved in the
pre-election manoeuvres. It is a little
confusing, for example, to read a definite
announcement by Nelson Rockefeller,
Governor of New York, that he will not
be a candidate for Republican nomina-
tion and then to have him say, not long
afterwards, that he won’t object to being
“drafted.” And what does it mean that
John F. Kennedy, of Massachusetts, beat
Hubert H. Humphrey, of Minnesota, by
100,000 votes in the Wisconsin primaries?
What is a primary, anyway?
U.S. citizens choose themselves a
President every four years. In theory
they don’t choose him at all; they merely
choose candidates for an Electoral College
(531 in 1956; a few more this year as
Alaska and Hawaii will be voting for the
first time), which later chooses the Presi-
dent. In practice, however, the name of
(he new President is known on the night
of the poll (the first Tuesday after the
first Monday in November), since the
candidates for the Electoral College are
pledged in advance to vote for one or
other of the Presidential candidates.
It was the intention of the framers of
the U.S. Constitution that the citizens of
each State should vote for Electors and
leave it to them, as men of knowledge
and experience, to meet in a calm
atmosphere and choose the man best
fitted to lead the nation. This ideal was
honored for only five elections. By 1808
people were voting only for Electors who
had already declared themselves, and
political parties were insisting that the
party’s choice for Presidential candidate
bound all Electors nominated by the
party. For over 150 years the Electoral
College has been no more than a consti-
tutional formality.
Primaries
A lthough the Presidential election
doesn't take place till November,
election-fever begins to infect the U.S.
population as early as March when the
first “primaries” are held. This is the
term given to preliminary elections held
in most States, in which delegates to
national conventions or candidates for
office are chosen directly by the electors,
instead of/by political conventions. They
are conducted by secret ballot, using the
same election machinery, regulations and
safeguards as elections for State
Congresses. There is, however, no
uniformity in details.
In some States the purpose of the poll
is to choose delegates to the national
conventions of the parties, but there’s no
direct indication of choice for President.
In others, votes are cast for Presidential
candidates without any actual choice of
delegates—these are nominated either
before or after by the State party-
convention or by the party-executive.
There are States in w'hich Republicans
follow one system and Democrats the
other.. But the tendency is towards
uniformity and the majority of States
conduct “preferential primaries” —which
means that voters elect delegates to the
national conventions and at the same time
express preference for Presidential (and
Vice-Presidential) candidates.
There are differences, too, in the
responsibilities of a delegate when chosen.
In California and Minnesota delegates are
pledged to support the convention candi-
dates under whose banners they are
elected. In Massachusetts, Nebraska,
New Jersey and West Virginia there is no
such bond. In Ohio, New Hampshire and
Pennsylvania a delegate is pledged only
if he has signed a pledge, but in Wisconsin
he is pledged unless he has specifically
run as an “uninstructed” delegate.
Uncommitted Votes
Tt is these differences in detail that make
the national conventions so open. If
all State primaries were run on the fully-
pledged principle the choosing of a Presi-
dent would be merely a matter of simple
arithmetic once the primaries were com-
pleted. As it is, a large number of
delegates go to the national conventions
either uncommitted or not fully com-
mitted. It is towards the swinging of
these uncommitted votes that the
energies of the partisans of the main
candidates are directed.
The spacing of the State primaries
contributes to the build-up of the final
election-picture. Doubtful or lukewarm
candidates, after studying the results in
early primaries, may decide to throw-in
their hands ; national figures who have
been holding back may decide to run
after all. It was probably after con-
sideration of Vice-President Nixon’s
showing in the primaries that Nelson
Rockefeller announced that he would
accept Republican nomination if
“drafted” which means if the
Republican convention chooses him.
The Republican convention will be held
in Los Angeles on July 11. The Demo-
crats will hold theirs in Chicago a fort-
night later, on July 25,
National Conventions
Tn 1956 the convention of the Democratic
party was also held in Chicago. It
was attended by 1372 delegates. Of
these, as a result of the State primaries,
about 400 were pledged to support Adlai
Stevenson, Governor of Illinois, about
200 to support Senator'Kefauver and 141
Averell Harriman, Governor of New
York. Something like 300 had pledged
themselves to back the claims of
“favorite sons,” by which term is meant
Governors, Senators or Congressmen
from the delegates’ own States. The rest
were uncommitted.
Although 200 delegates were pledged
to Kefauver, he had already withdrawn
from the contest and had urged his sup-
porters to swing in behind Stevenson.
In doing so he had explained that the
trend of the primaries, as well as nation-
wide polls, had shown that most Demo-
crats wanted Stevenson. A couple of
days before the convention ex-President
Truman issued a strong plea for the
selection of Harriman as “the man best
qualified to be the next President.”
Truman’s appeal was addressed to the
Kefauver men and the uncommitteds.
Supporters of favorite-son candidates
would not be expected to switch until
after the first ballot. As it happened,
there was no need for more than one
ballot. Stevenson needed votes to
gain the nomination. He got 905|, with
Harriman runner-up with 210. Of the
others Senators Lyndon Johnson (80) and
Stuart Symington (45y) were the next in
order. Both are again in the field.
It is usual for the Presidential nominee
to indicate his choice of running-mate,
but Stevenson told the convention he
would leave this to the vote of delegates.
The convention then chose Senator
Kefauver candidate for Vice-President.
The Republican convention in 1956
unanimously endorsed President Eisen-
hower and Vice-President Nixon as its
candidates for a second term, so that
both party conventions that year were
quiet affairs. In 1952 the same Re-
publican team had also been chosen
without opposition, but the Democrats
didn’t reach a decision until the third,
ballot. Senator Kefauver led in the first
two ballots, but Adlai Stevenson won
comfortably after several other candi-
dates withdrew.
Draftees?
npHis year in Democratic primaries
Senator Kennedy has been piling-up
the votes. His strongest declared rivals
were Senators Humphrey and Symington,
but after the West Virginia primary on
May 10 the former announced his with-
drawal from the contest. Symington is
still a runner, but Kennedy’s biggest
challenge could still come from Adlai
Stevenson, twice defeated by Eisenhower,
but still a big force in Democratic politics.
Like Rockefeller, Stevenson hasn't been
campaigning, but his original nomination
eight years ago was a “drafting” and a
repeat performance is still on the cards.
For the Republicans so far it has been
Nixon all the way, but the primaries have
shown a big drop in the Republican vote
since 1956 and a “Draft Rockefeller”
movement could easily snowball in the
next few weeks. It i's not impossible that
the 1960 Presidential campaign could
finish-up as a duel between draftees.


start the (lay right!
/5
ma
0U* C
•J?H££
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Nationals Form
Down the years the Toolam-
bool Hurdle has been regarded
as a first-class guide to the
National, and the books were
quick to recognise the signi-
ficance of Justification's fine
win last Saturday—they imme-
diately promoted the South
Australian jumper close to
the head of the quotes. Justi-
fication's lOst. in the Toolam-
bool was 41b. more than his
National allotment. A five-
year-old chestnut gelding by
Confessor from Bandana by
Dhoti (imp.) from Dunloe by
Great Star (imp.) from Sweet
Echo, he has quite a good
record in Adelaide, where his
most recent starts yielded a
first and a third. He’s a free-
going type, and, impressive
though he was on Saturday,
he left the doubt whether he
is solid enough for the long
journey at Flemington. Regal
Copy’s second, running on,
looked more like a National
trial to this viewer. Hillwood
ran a shocking race, and was
speedily disposed from top of
the National quotes. It is
hard to see him repeating his
previous success in the big race.
• • • »
Present writer has suggested
two or three times in recent
weeks that Grand Reward
might win the National Steeple-
chase. The Hororata geld-
ing’s prospects look better
than ever after his runaway
victory in the Roisel Steeple-
chase, which he won as he
liked. Alec Fullarton is going
to have quite a . problem
deciding the stable elect in the
big race —he also has Mudeet,
the National favorite, who
scored his fourth Steeple win
in a row at the Flemington
Queen’s Birthday meeting.
Grand Reward did not meet
either Mudeet or his other
most dangerous National
rival, Tranquil Glow, and the
value of his win has to be
measured with that in mind.
It could be that Fullarton will
start both Grand Reward and
Mudeet in the Kensington
Steeple on Saturday week,
which would give an accurate
guide to their prospects in the
big race on the following
Saturday. Last year’s National
winner, Irish Sun, ran his best
race this time up to finish
third in the Roisel from well
back.
• • • •
E. A. Alstergren, who owns
Mudeet, is planning ahead
for next season’s jumping
races with the four-year-old
Ottoman (imp.) gelding Lauris-
ton Bey, whom he bought
recently from the T. W.
Gunnerson estate. In school-
ing-lessons Lauriston Bey is
showing aptitude for jump-
ing, but meantime he’s paying
his way on the flat, and on
Saturday scored comfortably
in the June Welter. As a two-
year-old the Ottoman gelding
showed a lot of promise, but
“ Sluggo's taking a dive again.”
he developed a wind infirmity.
That has been cured, and on
Saturday’s good effort he will
win more flat-races before
beginning his jumping career.
• • • •
With older horses winter
form is no guide to spring
prospects, but an outstanding
winter two-year-old is quite
likely to be up to the best of
class. A couple of years ago
Webster won a string of two-
year-old events in the winter,
and went on to success at
w.f.a. Maurice Nathan has
hopes of something of the sort
for his colt Merabilly, who has
been first past the post at each
of his last four starts. In one of
them he was relegated to third
place after an unusual pro-
test, but since then he has won
the Princess Handicap at
Flemington on Queen’s Birth-
day and the first heat of the
Minook Two-year-old (seven
furlongs) at Caulfield last
Saturday. This last effort was
his best so far. He missed the
start slightly and had to fight
his way on terms with Dalby
and race on the outside of that
good colt for most of the
journey ; but he had enough
in reserve to draw away at the
finish. Merabilly is by the
recently imported sire Rash-
leigh from Yungawee by
Empyrean (imp.) from Port-
skerrie by Caithness (imp.)
from Clarehaven.
“Everybody” backed Mera-
billy, but it was a different
story in the second division.
Only the bookies cheered when
maiden performer Trio over-
came the disadvantage of
barrier-20 to finish much too
well for his rivals. A brown
gelding by Tulloch’s sire,
Khorassan, from Merry
Widow, Trio (so named be-
cause he has three owners) was
bred in New Zealand. Mel-
bourne bloodstock-agent Mel
Marshall may have been spoof-
ing pressmen on Saturday, but
he claimed he was dozing when
Trio was put in the sale-ring
and that the auctioneer mis-
took the nods of his drowsy
head for bids ; he woke to find
he had paid 250gns. for the
youngster. Successful trainer
Basil Conaghan took a share
in the purchase and N.Z.
trainer J. McDonald has the
other third. It was a pretty
good run by Trio, whose only
other starts had yielded a third
and. a. second in the country.
He will win races with more
than the 7.2 he carried on
Saturday.
Punters usually have a soft
spot for greys—possibly be-
cause they are easy to dis-
tinguish in a field —and there
was good money for New
Model and Queen Of The May
in the six-furlongs Rosny
Plate, contested by a field of
smart sprinters. The two greys
(both by Meadow Mist, from
whom they get their coat) had
the finish to themselves, New
Model making it three in a
row. Queen Of The May has
now run two good races since
coming from Perth, where her
form was outstanding, and
trainer Angus Armanasco will
advise the filly’s owner, Mrs.
N. August, to go ahead with
her plan to race the grey in
the Doomben Ten Thousand.
* * *
Sydney Horses
Trainer G. McCahon had
intended sending Grecian Vale
for a spell after the five-year-
old won the June Stakes at
Randwick a week before taking
the Preston Handicap at War-
wick Farm, but the horse did so
well following the Randwick
win that McCahon decided on
another run, and Grecian Vale
actually had something in re-
serve at the finish on Satur-
day. With his 51b. allowance
reducing the already favorable
weight to 8,2, Peter Miers
made it his third win on the
son of Achilles. In finishing
second Grenoble indicated
readiness for another win at
up to one mile. Middle-
distance galloper Irish Folly’s
third also looked promising.
* • • •
Another of the consistent,
Regained followed-up his
Canterbury Park win of 10
days earlier by being always
handy to the leaders and taking
charge after rounding the
home-turn to beat topweight
Swallow Tail, with favorite
Port Bound third, in the Two-
year - old Handicap. Port
Bound was well back in the
field till they got into the
straight, but there unwound a
belated powerful run. In
finishing fourth New Zealand-
bred Cartel indicated an early
Sydney win ; he, has won in
the Dominion. Pavan also ran


c zJcet/andti oZ/it/e -
f//e %7mce
f/\
Wherever you travel you will find "White
Label" Dewar's Scotch Whisky.
This is the Scotch which has earned the
world-wide reputation for unvarying excel*
lence and distinctive character.
*3
>//
r\+
y
m
£
f?
- 5 \
mil
m
38 : ■
.«%->.v- . ... .. v%
- «O*K WjV
White Label
DWII7
Street scene, hong kong. Vhoto by Qantas.
“White Label”
Dewars
Scotch Whisky
- it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
a sound race, and should soon
win. The owners of Regained,
Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Read, have
bagged no fewer than 14 two-
year-old events in less than two
years.
• * * *
For an even-money favorite,
Native Kingdom’s display in
the First Warwick Farm En-
courage was about as poor as
you’d see. However, the form
of the winner, Corn Vista, was
consistent enough narrowly
beaten at his prior start at
Canterbury. Nymagee, winner
of several races at Moree,
finished second after showing a
lot of pace ; he could soon
score a Sydney win.
Having his first start in open
company, Black Hawk was
hard pressed to win the 11-
furlongs June Handicap at
Warwick Farm (one of the
Sydney Turf Club fixtures that
are being staged at the other
three tracks while the new
official stand is being built at
Rosehill). Black Hawk had
won three minor races in suc-
cession, and had shown
stamina in all of them. He
again showed plenty of that
quality at the Farm, but J.
Thompson had a hard ride in
the neck-and-neck struggle all
the way down the straight with
the T. J. Smith-trained top-
weight, Bold Pilot, on whom
apprentice H. Williams rode a
clever race. The slightly better
stayer on the day just got his
head in front on the line. He
carried 141 b. less than Bold
Pilot, another that could soon
win.
When Sellwood won the final
race at the Farm, the Girra-
ween Handicap, on the
favorite, Tudor House, he
brought his total of wins for
the metropolitan season to 84,
his record for local fixtures.
Adding other meetings, inter-
state and provincial, Sellwood
has had 113 firsts—a pretty
good tally. His previous best
for the city area was 77. He
had to ride Tudor House hard
to stall-off the fast-finishing
Golden Vogue. Wales (third)
was backed from 20’s to 7's
and made a bold showing to
the top of the straight, where
he started to give ground—a
promising run for a horse
who’s been off the winning-list
for two years. Of the beaten
lot, stayer Grove Hall indi-
cated a likely early win at 10
furlongs or more.
Solidly backed to even-
money favoritism Prince Verdi
duly landed the 11-furlongs
Novice, but he was one more
that had to be hard ridden to
get there. When he won a
seven-furlongs race at Rand-
wick as a two-year-old he
looked really promising, but
he's now approach'ng four,
and this Warwick Farm suc-
cess was his only win since.
A Rigoletto (imp.) gelding, he’s
from Marrak, a mare by Mar-
conigram (imp.), sire of several
top stayers.
With five wins to her credit,
four - year - old Melglo has
proved profitable as a racing
investment, and, soundly- bred,
she could do well at the stud
By Globetrotter (imp.), a son
of Hyperion, she’s from the
Marconigram (imp.) mare Mel-
wood, whose dam, Charmeta,
was got by Cyklon (imp.) from
Angelina by Downshire (imp.).
Well ridden by Mulley, Melglo
won the Three-and-four-year-
old Handicap for fillies and
mares in good style, with
recently unlucky My Melodee
and Little Loveli in the places.
Junior Queen, easy winner
of a Hawkesbury Two-year-old
Maiden for fillies, is yet
another of the Star Kingdoms,
from the unraced Korolevu.
Powerscourt, winner of a
Maiden in fine style at the
same meeting, is well enough
bred to be capable of soon
repeating the performance in
better company. He’s a three-
year-old by Fair’s Fair (imp.)
from Lady Advocate by
Solicitor General (imp.), and
was bred in New Zealand.
A particularly impressive
youngster seen at the meeting


was Bold Star, who ran off
the track to the outer rails in
the final stages of the Two-
year-old Maiden for colts and
geldings and still had several
lengths to spare at the finish.
Bred by G. B. S. Falkiner, of
Haddon Rig, Warren (N.S.W.),
Bold Star is by Snow Star
from Lady Handsome by
Cragsman from Hedy by
Dark Lover (imp.).
* * *
A.J.C. Chairman Sir Alan
Potter and former committee-
man Keith Mackay won the
Brisbane Cup with their well-
performed Valerius, defeat-
ing Essayist in a close finish,
with Dow Street third.
Essayist appeared to have the
race won, but, hard ridden
by Jack Thompson, at his
vigorous best, the favorite got
going again and snatched
victory on the post.
* * *
Le Storm, one of the progeny
of that good mare De La Salle
(whose 16 wins included an
Epsom and w.-f.-a. Caulfield
Stakes), had a good win at the
Eagle Farm meeting, conclud-
ing the Q.T.C. Brisbane Cup
carnival. He’s a staying-type
two-year-old by Sun Storm (E.),
son of Solario. De La Salle is
by Speardale from Fossil by
David from Thetis by Manfred
from Cardinalis by Pistol (imp.)
—a solid staying background.
Sun Storm’s good performers
on Australian tracks have in-
cluded Regal Glitter (A.J.C.
Coronation Cup), Storm Glow
(Adelaide Cup), Stormy Pas-
sage (Adelaide Derby), and
Suncup (Stradbroke Handicap).
* * *
Other Sports
Big open golf tournaments
will be notable by their
absence this year, with Coles’
the only major sponsor to
promote one. But great
interest will be focused on the
W. D. and H. O. Wills 90-hole
match featuring Peter Thomson
and Gary Player. This match
will be played on different
courses in September and
October, the one round in
Sydney being at Manly on
October 2. The interest stimu-
lated by the International
Canada Cup competition in
Melbourne last year should
guarantee its success, and it
could well he the forerunner
of regular international
matches between Australia
and other countries, which
would in some way replace
the open tournaments.
Back to his best form, Peter
Thomson had five strokes to
spare over Bernard Hunt
(Britain) in taking the big end
of the prizemoney in the
Yorkshire “Evening News”
tourney at Leeds with a 268
aggregate for the 72 holes. It
raised his cash earnings inside
three weeks to £2OOO for two
wins and a second in the round
of tourneys.
“Golfer”: This era of
youth ... In the British
amateur golf championship
Irishman J. B. Carr defeated
American R. Cochran, 8-7.
Cochran is 40, Carr 38. It
was Carr’s second British
Amateur title.
* * *
After one fiery moment in
Brisbane, when one of the
"Don't Worry —they cant climb trees !"
Rugby League tourists helped
the ref. on his way with a boot
in the rear, France again
retired into its shell to be
beaten 30-18 by Queensland on
Saturday. It seems that the
visitors’ main concern in these
fixtures is to avoid any injuries
that might interfere with their
bid to retain the Ashes.
• • • •
“Selja”: Don’t know for
sure whether it’s a record,
though I fancy it must be —
the Saturday before last (June
11) Harden - Murrumburrah
successfully defended the
Maher Cup for the 27th time.
The Cup, competed for among
all clubs in N.S.W.’s Rugby
League Group "9, is the most
important N.S.W. country
trophy. Narrowest squeak
for Harden to time of writing
came in the game with Tumut
on May 28. With two minutes
to go Tumut led 17-13. After
a desperate rush Harden
winger Robinson crossed in
the corner. A scuffle ensued
between players and spectators
(a woman rushed on the field
and attacked a Tumut player),
and when quiet descended the
bell had rung. Harden goal-
kicker Bernie Nevin, however,
kicked his sixth goal of the
match to keep the Cup on the
same shelf. In the 1930’s the
Cup was long held by West
Wyalong, then led by former
Test star five-eighth Eric
Weissel.
* * *
“O-Twit”: The Queen’s
Birthday weekend was a bad
period for Graham Branson,
South Australia’s 19th man
with the Australian Rules team
playing in Melbourne. Not
only did he have to stand-by
and watch the State team
soundly beaten, and hear, as
well, that his League team was
being similarly thrashed in
Adelaide, but, two days before,
his home-town side —a country
team from which he graduated
to League play—was beaten
54.24 to 0.1. This last game
was certainly fast —it had to
be; there wasn’t time for
dallying between the 79
scoring-shots during the 90
minutes of play.
* * *
Some talk topics around
the sports world: The
generosity of professional
Lionel Cox in giving-up hours
helping lan Chapman with
tips on Games’ cycling . . .
Sue Knight’s projected trip to
the U.S. to train for the
Games’ diving; in the U.S.
her coach, Jack Barnett, will
hand her over to Mrs. Pat
McCormick, former Olympic
champion and recognised as
the best woman diver the
world has known . . . What’s
going to happen to Australian
swimming when John Hen-
ricks, Murray Rose, John
Konrads and John Devitt
retire after the Games? . . .
And why did the Olympic
Federation appoint Mrs. Doris
Magee and Mrs. John Ross
as “chaperones” after previous
women officials had been given
the higher status of “manager-
esses,” which entitled them to
official “do’s” at Games?
* * *
“Athlete”: Britain has a
potential Olympic sprint
winner in Peter Radford.
Recently he clocked 20.5 for
220yds. round a turn and 9.3
for 100yds. His longer-
distance time shaved a tenth
of a second off the world
record, and his 9.3 equalled
the world record, though it
won’t be allowed because the
wind-assistance was 2.37-
metres a second, as against the
allowable 2-metres a second.
Radford was timed to do
150yds. in 14.2. Repeated at
Rome that sort of speed will
test the best of them. He’s
the first British sprinter to beat
a world record.
* * *
“Sportite”: So we’re a
sporting nation, fair-minded
and all that! I was at Sydney
Stadium for the Olympic
Games’ engagement between
Tony Madigan (N.S.W.) and
Ken Marshall (Q.), won by
Madigan per k.o. in the first
round. After the fight Madi-
gan’s dressing - room was
packed; Marshall fwith
trainer) dressed alone, dejected,
but still the good sportsman,
telling me he “couldn’t have
beaten Madigan in a thousand
years.” Until I left not a
soul came to say a word of
cheer.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ALGERIAN HOPE
Commenting on the results
of the recent round of
county-council elections in
Algeria, the New York
“Herald Tribune” notes that
“it does not matter that the
councils, which until now had
been appointed, have no
specific political power. It
does not even matter so much
that 60 per cent, of the sue-
cessful candidates have
pledged their loyalty to de
Gaulle’s programme for
Algeria, although that is natur-
ally heartening. The important
point is that a start has been
made towards a realistic dis-
cussion between France and
the millions of voiceless
Algerians it rules”:
■•The turn-out at the polls
was about 55 per cent,
„
throughout the country, even
though it fell far below that
in the European strongholds
of Algiers and Oran. This is
certainly a blow to the prestige
of the F.L.N. rebels, who had
tried to force the Moslems to
boycott the election and had
threatened Moslem candidates
with death.
“It is true that the French
Army provided transportation
and protection for many voters
(helicopters even carried
ballot-boxes to remote dis-
tricts), and that French
soldiers were assiduous in
‘getting out the vote.’ It is
also true that many Moslems
liked the idea of this, for they
could always plead duress
afterward if summoned to
account by the rebels. Con-
sidering the circumstances 6f
the election, which were war-
time, the French can feel
encouraged,
“Algerian Moslems have, of
course, voted before, but
always within a framework
which guaranteed the supre-
rnacy of the Algerian French,
This time, however, the
councils are to have Moslem
majorities, or at least parities,
if 5 as seems likely, most
Moslems are neither in favor
G f the violence of the F.L.N.
nor of the ‘integration’ with
France called for by the
European ultras, it may be
that an authoritative voice
will shortly break the terror-
ised silence of the last five
years. It will be the voice of
representative Algeria, a voice
firm with purpose but tempered
by moderation and understand-
mg of what is possible in
F » nch minds ...
Other comment:
London “Economist”: “The
voting shows a continued
settler resistance to General
—London “Daily Express.”
“ DON’T LET THOSE FOREIGN MILITARISTS GIVE YOU ANY IDEAS, MALINOVSKY!”
de Gaulle, particularly around
Algiers, although it is signi-
ficant that the extremists can
no longer claim to speak for
the European community as
a whole. More ominously,
the charactei of the Moslem
candidates returned does no
lend credence to thet idea that
a third force will emerge,
,
General de Gaulle has
reliance Qn , he
f oca| ; to duce Ihe
]one _ ]ooked _ for interlocuteurs
j 8 ,,* 1 u [u' f
va/aifei; although there is
agam ' a k m *‘B' e , s ° f
round-table consultations on
t , ... t ~
the future relations of the
„ , A , , i
European and Moslem com-
T.
munities, it does not seem
that the General can place
undue reliance on such a pro-
cess of reconciliation. But he
still has the hopes, however
fragile, of the Moslem popu-
lation who see him as the
one man, if one exists, who
can still bring about an
eventual political settlement.”
* * *
Manchester “Guardian”: “In
a country still a prey to war
and terrorism, with about half
the electorate failing to vote,
such results are at best
approximate. Those elected
are supposed to join with
Algerian deputies and muni-
cipal councillors in commit-
tees that will study the
country’s political and econo-
mic problems. This (though
the Government has played it
down lately) might be a first
step towards working out a
form of Home Rule. But, like
the whole of the gradualist
policy, it depends on President
de Gaulle s lemaining in office
to keep the present balance of
foices in being.
Turkish Coup
A sampling of overseas press
comment on the Turkish
coup d’etat in which the Army,
led by Lieutenant - General
Cemal Gursel, overthrew the
Menderes Government:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Turkish democracy has, in the
old phrase, not been tried and
found wanting, but found diffi-
cult and never properly tried.
Both Mr. Menderes, by creat-
ing the Democratic party, and
Mr. Inonii, by holding the free
elections which brought it to
power, have dipped cautious
toes in the stream of liberalisa-
tion. But neither has learnt to
swim.
“Mr. Menderes has fallen a
victim to the historic train of
reasoning whereby a ruler
persuades himself first that his
ideas are the right ones;
second that he alone can carry
them out; and third, that any
kind of criticism is virtually
treasonable. Hence the
sequence of events which has
led him to impose censorship
and curfews, close universities,
and to prepare the destruction
of the Parliamentary Opposi-
tion by submitting it to a com-
mission of inquiry composed
exclusively of his own sup-
porters.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “Since
Turkey is the anchor of both
the southern flank of the North
Atlantic alliance, guarding non-
Communist Europe, and of the
western flank of the Central
Treaty Organisation, guarding
non-Communist Asia, and since
it has been until recently the
strongest democracy in the
Middle East, the upheaval is
naturally of concern to the free
world. It is particularly so to
the United States, which has
invested some three-billion
dollars in Turkey’s develop-
ment, has equipped and trained
its military forces and has made
it, together with Greece, the
peg for the Truman Doctrine
that revolutionised American
foreign policy.
“Fortunately, the initial pro-
nouncements of the new rulers
are gratifyingly reassuring on
all issues of foreign and domes-
tic policies. In keeping with
Turkey’s strongly anti-Com-
munist stand, which was never
at issue in a country with prac-
tically no Communists, the new
rulers declare that they remain
completely loyal to the United
Nations and to both Nato and
Cento. They likewise disclaim
any ambition to become dicta-
tors and promise ‘just and free’
elections as soon as possible
under the supervision and ‘arbi-
tration’ of an impartial, above-
party Administration, with the
intention of handing power
back to the regime so elected.”
* * *
London “Observer” ; “The
Army’s intervention may have


From Hanimex...
the 16mm projector of the future..,
The amazing
Siemens 2000
*44
HI
mt
i
/■ v-rii
, > '-•' ■;?
; *><“* & *
**
RECORDS ITS OWN
SOUND! REPRODUCES
BOTH MAGNETIC AND
OPTICAL TRACKS!
NO TRANSFORMER
NEEDED!
Now add exciting sound effects and
commentary to your own 16 mm. films.
Compact and professional, the Siemens
2000 has a built-in optical and magnetic
sound head, high fidelity push-pull ampli-
fier, built-in recorder, efficient micro-
phone, and 11" hi-fi speaker in carrying
case. £498 incl. tax.
Other models ranging from £375 to £950.
THE MOST VERSATILE
PROJECTOR EVER!
• Brilliant light output •
Projects up to 16 ft. pictures
with sufficient volume for use
as public address system • Re-
cords and superimposes on
striped film • Spare parts and
repair service guaranteed
HANIMEX
GUARANTEED PHOTOGRAPHIC PRODUCTS
Distributors for HKS animated viewers
and Zeiss Pentaflex Movie Cameras.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • NEWCASTLE • ALBURY
saved Turkey from more wide-
spread violence provoked by
the ex-Premier’s short-sighted
repressive policies. But if it
also saves Turkish democracy
it will be a remarkable con-
tradiction of recent historical
experience. Like others before
them, including Colonel (now
President) Abdul Nasser in
Egypt and General (now Presi-
dent) Ayub Khan in Pakistan,
the Turkish Army leaders are
said to have declared that their
aim is to ‘hold the ring’ while
fair-play is restored to political
life. The intention is no doubt
sincere : but Army intervention,
itself a breakdown of the
democratic process, is usually
a sign of a more profound
political and social crisis which
is not so easy to cure.”
* * *
London “E c o n o m i s t’s’’
Ankara correspondent: “This is
not a Right-wing coup leading
to a stuffy military dictatorship.
General Gursel is not General
Franco He is not even a
Kassem or an Ayub Khan. He
represents an important side of
the Turkish Army—its liberal
ideas. In Turkey the elite is
twofold—the intellectuals, and
the Army. In this operation
the two have joined forces.
The very first act -of General
Gursel was to get hold of seven
eminent Turkish university-
professors and sit them down
in a room to draft a Constitu-
tion. His second act was to
form a Government in which
15 out of 18 members were
civilian experts and intellec-
tuals.”
* * *
Manchester “G u a r d i a n”:
“The modern Turkish Army is
traditionally well - disciplined
and well-integrated, and the
evidence we have so far —that
is, the broadcast statements —
is that General Gursel wants
free elections. That implies
that the Democratic and Re-
publican People’s parties must
be on equal terms; in other
words, Mr. Menderes and his
colleagues will have to be
released from detention to
carry on their campaign. Will
they fight on these terms? Will
the Army trust them?
“The whole operation is
jagged with difficulties, and
the National Unity Committee
[Gursel’s interim Administra-
tion], however sincere its in-
tions, may find it easier to post-
pone elections ‘until the time
is ripe.’
“However, we must hope for
the best, and the best that we
can hope for is that a genuine
democratically-elected Govern-
ment may emerge by kind per-
mission of the Army. In effect..
Mr. Menderes by his policies
has put the clock back some 15
years to the Presidency of Mr.
Inonii, and Turkey has to begin
again its brave experiment of
making use of an authoritarian
regime to create a liberal one.
Better luck next time.”
Mikoyan Eclipse?
T ondon “Economist” notes
that “of the 10 full mem-
bers of the party Presidium
announced on March 5, 1953,
immediately after Stalin’s
death, only three are still in
their posts. Mr. Khrushchev
is, naturally, one of them. A
figurehead, the aged Marshal
Voroshilov, who last month
was removed from his job as
Soviet President, is the second.
Last, but not least, is that
‘Armenian wizard’ Anastai
Mikoyan, possibly the most in-
telligent and experienced mem-
ber of the Soviet leadership.
Mr. Mikoyan’s position now
seems threatened.
“ The first sign was rather
cryptic. The issue of ‘Partyina
Zhizn,’ which went to press on
May 3, contained an article on
Soviet Azerbaidjan which did
not mention Mr. Mikoyan at
all. This was in sharp contrast
with, say, the entry on this sub-
ject in the recently published
‘Small Soviet Encyclopaedia,’
in which Mr. Mikoyan figures
prominently,
“A further clue was Mr.
Mikoyan’s absence from among
the Soviet leaders who came to
greet the returning Mr.


Khrushchev [after the abortive
Summit]. (A Soviet official said
he was on holiday on the Black
Sea coast.)
“More significant, probably,
is the fact that a Soviet delega-
tion now visiting Argentina is
headed by Mr. Kosygin, Mr.
Mikoyan’s new fellow First
Deputy Prime Minister.
Hitherto Latin America has
seemed to be Mr. Mikoyan’s
particular province; he visited
both Mexico and Cuba fairly
recently. The eclipse of Mr.
Khrushchev’s chief partner in
the policy of coexistence
would be a not unnatural
sequel to a setback to that
policy.”
After summarising Miko-
yan's career in the party, with
special reference to his ability
to “avoid the thick of the per-
sonal struggle” during Stalin’s
reign and his outstanding talent
for management, the “Econo-
mist” continues:
“When, in March, 1958, Mr.
Khrushchev replaced Marshal
Bulganin as Prime Minister,
Mr. Mikoyan became his First
Deputy. All observers are
agreed that he was not, like
the fallen marshal, Mr.
Khrushchev’s stooge. Many
have been witnesses of occa-
sions when the cautious Mr.
Mikoyan tried to keep his
extrovert partner under con-
trol. Some even believe that
he was the real prompter of
the policy of detente.
“The transition from home
to foreign affairs would have
been easy for him. As Russia’s
chief foreign trader for years,
he had better contacts with,
and more knowledge of, the
outside world than any other
Soviet leader. During Mr.
Khrushchev’s period of travel-
ling diplomacy he was the per-
fect partner. His visits have not
been limited to Latin America;
he also preceded Mr. Khrush-
chev in the United States.
“His last trip was to Iraq
in April. There, at a press-
conference, he tried to explain
why it would be unwise for
Moscow to recognise the
Algerian Government-in-exile.
His views were sharply criti-
cised in the Chinese press.
Without mentioning him by
name, the Chinese have, in fact,
been gunning for him for quite
a time.
“Has the luck of the ‘Ar-
menian wizard’ run out? Does
Mr. Khrushchev intend to sac-
rifice a partner in order to pre-
serve his position? There is
no official indication of this;
there are merely straws in the
wind. But the fate of Mr.
Mikoyan is worth watching.
“One of the very few re-
maining old Bolsheviks, he was
probably never a real contender
for his fellow Caucasian’s suc-
cession. He has, however, been
associated with all the three
major trends in the post-
Stalinist phase: the attack on
the ‘cult of personality,’ the
emphasis on the needs of the
consumer and the policy of
coexistence. The length and
extent of his eclipse may, there-
fore, serve as a guide to the
confusing struggle over policy
now going on in Moscow.”
Pasternak
T}Rom the “New York
Times”:
“Boris Pasternak was one of
the few giants of 20th-century
literature. Long ago the beauty
of his poetry and of his trans-
lations of Shakspeare had
"PERHAPS WE OUGHT TO HOLD A SUMMIT AND
SETTLE SOME OF OUR OUTSTANDING PROBLEMS.”
established him as one of the
immortals of Russian litera-
ture, a worthy member of the
group whose earlier representa-
tives included such figures as
Pushkin, Turgenev, Dostoevski
and Tolstoy. But the poet’s
work peculiarly resists trans-
lation, its beauty and imagery
being bound refractorily with
the music, cadence and history
of a particular language. So it
was not until Doctor Zhivago,
a novel that could be translated
with relative ease, that the full
dimensions of Pasternak’s
genius became known to all the
world.
“Future generations of Rus-
sians will learn with shame
that the last years of this man’s
life were spent in disgrace on
the soil of the native land he
loved so deeply. They will see
in the confrontation between
Pasternak and Khrushchev,
when the former was awarded
the Nobel Prize, the confronta-
tion of two great forces in
Russian history.
“Pasternak represented the
humanistic tradition of the
Russian intelligentsia who have
always striven for the freedom
of the individual human soul.
Khrushchev represented then
and represents now the tradi-
tion of the oppressors who
have sought so often in the
cruel Russian history to keep
that talented and great people
in a state of physical, intellec-
tual and spiritual serfdom.
“But the Khrushchevs have
come and gone over the cen-
turies, while the work of the
Pasternaks has lived on, ever
green and vital, reinspiring
each new generation to con-
tinue the battle that must ulti-
mately end in the victory of the
human spirit, in Russia as
throughout the rest of the
world.”
A New "Queen"
T ondon “Financial Times’’
comment on the recom-
mendations of the Chandos
Committee, which the British
Government set-up to inquire
into ways of replacing the
Cunarder “Queen” liners on
the Atlantic run:
“The report discusses only
the replacement of the Queen
Mary ; consideration of a re-
placement for the Queen Eliza-
beth, like the question of
nuclear propulsion, is regarded
as premature. The committee
comes out firmly for the build-
ing of a ship of 75,000 tons, to
travel at 29\ knots and carry
some 2270 passengers. The
cost it places at between £2sm.
and £2Bm., though Cunard
ominously considers this figure
too low. It suggests that the
ship should be owned and
operated by a separate Cunard
subsidiary ; £l2m. equity capi-
tal would be subscribed oy
Cunard—it seems that this is
the most the company can find
—and up to £lBm. loan-capital
would be subscribed by the
Government.
“The terms the committee
proposes make it clear that
there is a strong element of
subsidy in the arrangement.
The loan is to be over 25 years
and the proposed interest-rate
—per cent.—is far below
the rate at which money could
be obtained from any commer-
cial source. No interest is to
be paid until the ship is in
operation, and although there
is provision for accelerated re-
payment should the new com-
pany’s average gross profit—
whatever that may mean —rise
above 7 per cent., if the gross
profit drops below 3 per cent,
interest on the loan is corre-
spondingly reduced.
“Any scheme of subsidy io
whatever industry or company
requires the most careful
scrutiny, and this one is no ex-
ception. But before the finan-
cial details can be appraised
two basic questions have to be
examined. The first is whether
national prestige in fact re-
quires that Britain should be
represented on the luxury New
York run. The Conservative
manifesto answered ‘yes’ and
one is constrained reluctantly
to agree.
“National prestige, like that’
of an individual, is usually an
incidental result of the pursuit
of some more worthy aim.
When it is striven for as a goal
in itself the results are usually
empty. But Britain has been
represented so long and so suc-
cessfully on this crossing that
a decision to withdraw would
inevitably be seen as a sign of
national decline, an indication
that here was another area in
which this country could no
longer compete. And so, as
long as there are wealthy pas-
sengers anxious to cross the
Atlantic in this way, it seems
that a British ship must be
available to carry them.
“The second question is


"Let's have another
little Hennessq"
< ■ -V
m
%
m
vezt
mm
4 \
\\ • V
HENNESSY
(j?<y<^r\ax>
Is there a ttennessvj in the house?
"£s
"'ii-
with their heavy lids and
eventually looked into the
paling sky and the still-dark
bush, and then at the short,
weedy figure of my guest.
“What’s the matter?”
“Just didn’t want to go with-
out saying so-long.”
“You’re going? It’s hardly
light! ”
“Light enough. That blasted
bird’s stopped. That’s the
main thing.”
I struggled to my elbow.
“The bird? You really
meant it?”
“Of course, I meant it. I
keep on telling you. Well,
so-long, mate. Thanks for
having me.”
He grinned, nodded, and
moved off into the darkness.
“Goodbye,” I called.
I lay there, propped-up on
my elbow, and thought I
heard him speak to the horse t
Then that rattle on the stones
again. He rode across the edge
of my small clearing, lifting his
hand, and disappeared into
the embracing bush.
I stayed as I was, listening
to the fading clatter, watch-
ing daylight filtering stealthily
through the trees.
Then he whistled. The
high, thin sound wavered into
the clearing, and immediately
there was movement from the
shadowy trees where he had
tied his horse.
The hair at the back of my
neck stiffened as an immense
blue dog trotted silently into
the open. For a moment it
paused and looked into my
face. The slitted dark eyes
regarded me thoughtfully.
Then it turned and vanished
like a mottled shadow into the
underbrush.
Emmwood, in London
“Daily Mail.”
whether the committee's pro-
posal for a 75,000-ton con-
ventionally powered ship is in
fact the right solution. Here
we are inevitably in the experts'
hands. They say it is essential
to have a ship that can make
the crossing in less than five
days, and that this require-
ment necessitates designing a
special type of ship unsuitable
for any other service. There is
clearly no alternative to accept-
ing their specification. It is to
be hoped, however, that when
the Queen Elizabeth is due to
be retired the possibility of
nuclear 'propulsion will be
seriously considered ; since
prestige is admittedly a main
consideration it might be well
worth while making an effort
to obtain it in this way.”
Dragnet Digest
Alistair Buchan, in Manches-
ter “Guardian”: “Nato is of
growing rather than diminish-
ing importance to Britain, not
just as an instrument for collec-
tive defence but as the essential
basis for negotiation with the
Soviet Union.
“The failure of the Summit
has emphasised the fact that
the development of a state of
detente with the Soviet Union
will be a protracted affair and
subject to many setbacks, acci-
dental or deliberate. In the
meantime „what is needed is a
high degree of internal cohesion
among the Western Powers and
the development of *the least
provocative form of deterrence
and defence that is economic-
ally supportable, technically
feasible and politically unifying
over the long haul. Nato is
the only instrument whereby
American, British and Euro-
pean views on how this is to
be done can be reconciled.”
* * *
C. L. Sulzberger in the “New
York Times’’ : “The year 1960
is beginning to resemble 1848,
when Europe’s traditional rules
were smashed by unco-ordin-
ated but emotionally linked
revolutions. The year 1848
saw violent shifts in France, the
Italian States, Austria-Hun-
gary and Germany. This year's
chaos has so far swept only the
non-Communist world. Never-
theless, there are already symp-
toms of danger in East Ger-
many and Poland ; the tremors
may yet ignore ideological
borders.”
* * *
London “Financial Times’’:
“U.S. business has taken the
Summit failure very quietly
While politicians have been
holding their grand inquest on
what went wrong and who was
to blame, there has been only a
smali change of opinion on the
economic outlook.
“Although Defence stocks
have risen in price, they have
not led the rest of the market
into a general rearmament rise.
The majority view appears to
be that there will be some in-
crease in military outlays, but
not enough to make much
difference to the overall level
of national spending. The most
widely quoted figure is of
a s2ooom. increase, which
amounts to only 0.4 per cent,
of total U.S. output.
“It therefore looks as if
business remains on the same
plateau on which it stood
before the Summit. It is true
that there is less talk of a
recession ; but by the middle
of May such talk was already
more pessimistic than the facts
warranted, and the international
situation has simply corrected
this. The somewhat unexcit-
ing economic prospect is the
outcome of two mildly oppos-
ing forces, neither having much
to do with overseas politics.
On the one hand, fixed invest-
ment and consumer-demand
are both rising ; on the other,
the rate of stock-building has
fallen and may continue to fall
in the coming months.”


The Man Who Built the Wharf
By C. E. T. NEWMAN
The present wave of reconstruction
and new building that is completely
transforming Sydney’s old harbor-
side area of The Rocks offers just
the right opportunity to pay the tribute of
a monument to the memory of the
pioneer merchant and notable citizen who
worked and lived there when all this was
very young.
In 1800 Robert Campbell (1769-1846)
arrived in Sydney Cove in the Hunter
with a cargo he was determined to sell
in the open market in spite of the N.S.W.
Corps. It had thwarted his efforts when
he was at Port Jackson two years earlier.
The goods he now brought were articles
he knew were required by the settlers ;
he let them know what he had for sale,
the price, and what he was prepared
to take in return. He succeeded so well
that a two-way trade was started, and
in 1803 an extract from an official report
to England read:
No man in this country deserves better
the protection of the British Ministry than
this [Robert Campbell] who has by his
liberal acts lowered the price of every
British article in the colony and is inclined
to pursue that step.
The “Journal of the Royal Australian
Historical Society” confirmed this when
it stated:
The raising of the settlers from a
condition of penury between 1800 and
1806 was due mainly to the activities
of Robert Campbell and his partners.
In 1801 Robert contracted with
Governor King to supply the colony
with 250 cows from Bengal, and in the
next few years he imported over 2000
head, roughly doubling the cattle-
population of the colony. In the same
year he made clear to the officers’
syndicate that he was in N.S.W. to stay
and trade freely.
He commenced to build solidly of
stone, so that early in 1803 a report
went to England stating:
A little below this [the dockyard] is
the only good landing-place, wharf, store-
house and dwelling-house that has any
respectable appearance. It has been
erected by a Mr. Campbell, a private
merchant, at a great expense.
Robert Campbell had entered the
sealing industry by 1802, and by 1804,
from his own catching-gangs and others,
he had collected sufficient skins and oil
to load the Lady Barlow for shipment
to England, the first private cargo of
Australian produce to go there. Governor
King warned Campbell that he would
be infringing on the East India Com-
pany’s rights if he shipped them, and
he demanded that Campbell sign an
indemnity bond of £lO,OOO before he
sailed. Campbell sailed with his ship,
and the East India Co., warned of the
event by Governor King, seized ship
and cargo on arrival in the Thames.
Campbell suffered a loss of £7OOO,
but such was the fight he and his friends
put up that the East India Company’s
power over trade was broken, and a
newspaper later reported:
Too much honor cannot be given to
Messrs. Campbell, who fought and won
freedom for Colonial trade from the
thraldom of the powerful and wealthy
organisation which was said to be a
Company which maintained armies carry-
ing a sword in one hand and a ledger in
the other.
On his return to N.S.W. in 1806
Campbell found that the new Governor,
Bligh, was interested in the same things
as he himself: the welfare of the settlers,
all things connected with ships and the
sea, and the progress of development
of the colonial people. Bligh had been
told on arrival by his Lieut.-Governor,
Paterson, that Campbell’s merchandise
“ Frankly, yer ’ onner , I only done it for
the publicity .”
was the same price in scarcity as in
abundance, that he had protected the
poor and distressed settler; “and that
in fact he was the. only private pillar
which supported the honest people of
the colony.” Bligh and Campbell became
colleagues.
It was natural, therefore, that Camp-
bell’s support should be sought when
the Port’s Naval Officer proved unsatis-
factory. Campbell became Naval Officer
and a magistrate, and the appointment
led to his ruin.
Campbell was arrested at Government
House when the rebellious Corps seized
the Governor and the Government. For
two years afterwards he and his business
were oppressed in every way and brought
to a parlous state by the time Macquarie
arrived. Campbell was requested to go
to England to give evidence at the
courts-martial of rebels which were to
take place there, but he declined, plead-
ing that his business urgently required
his presence. He was forced to sail, and
he remained away from N.S.W. until
1815, when he returned to find he was
ruined.
Campbell set about retrieving his
status. He recovered some debts due
to him and, as the “Sydney Morning
Herald” reported, “he adopted the same
honorable course of business which
enabled him to regain his position and
to continue as he had always been, the
head of the Mercantile Community.”
He attended the meeting which led to
the opening of the Bank of New South
Wales. He opened the first savings-bank.
He was appointed one of the first three
unofficial members of the Legislative
Council, and his was the only appoint-
ment of which the population approved.
In 1828 he handed over the main part
of the business of ships and the wharf
to his two eldest sons and widened his
interests. In 1830 he visited his large
country property, Duntroon, now the
Royal Military College. He was on the
board of the Australian Agricultural
Co., had been asked to accept a seat on
the board of the Bank of New South
Wales, but declined, and was asked to
permit his name to be first on the list
of *the first Chamber of Com-
merce, which dubbed him “the
father of the Mercantile Com-
munity.”
He worked to see the King’s
schools started, and was a trustee
for the first scholarship donated.
He was a great supporter of the
Church. St. Phillip’s ; St. Peter’s,
Cooks River ; St. John’s, Canberra
—these are three of many that
owed much to him. The Cathedral
building-fund received his and his
family’s support. Robert was the
prime-mover in getting the first
■ sugar-refinery in the colony estab-
lished, and it was on his land at
Canterbury.' The first meeting of
the company was held in his office
at the Wharf, and he was the
guest-of-honor at the lunch held
in 1842 to see the machinery
started. This company later be-
came the present Colonial Sugar
Refining Co.
Robert died at Duntroon in
1846, and his body was brought to
Parramatta to be buried in the family
vault. In its obituary-notice the “Aus-
tralian” stated:
His sons have had the management of
the concern [Campbell and Co.] for many
years, and it will be acknowledged that
the spirit of the retired head of the firm
has always, and does even now, distinguish
the firm of Campbell and Company more
than any other House or Firm in N.S.W.
Long may it continue, if it were only
for the honor of him who has departed.
It also stated that no man in the colony
had been more highly respected than
Robert Campbell.
The “Dictionary of Australian Bio-
graphy” sums-up Robert Campbell’s
personal character by stating that he
“was probably the most trusted member
of the community and a benefactor of
many institutions.”
Some of Robert Campbell’s stores still
stand at The Rocks, and what could be
more fitting than that a monument to
his memory be erected over the site
of his headquarters, where he laid the
foundation of Australian commerce?


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVI3.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. 0. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in ail Country Centres
Pathfinder Pioneers, Now Pests
Queer Creatures, Camels
By JAMES HOLLEDGE
wo camels that recently
| strayed onto the Ade-
JL laide-Gawler railway-
line and disrupted ser-
vices displayed all the obstinate
stupidity of the breed before
they were finally lifted from the
track with a mobile crane.
These awkward, supercilious,
morose obnoxious-smelling and
cranky beasts seem to hate
being camels —but apparently
they’d hate to be anything else.
In their opinion all other living
creatures are beneath contempt,
especially human-beings.
No one has ever met an
amiable, gentle camel. There’s
never a moment of the day
when an oont won’t snap its
master’s arm off if it gets the
chance.
Even among themselves they
fight desperately. They rely on
teeth, grip an adversary’s leg
and wrench and tug until they
have downed him. Then they
drop on him and pound him to
death with their knees.
Disliked, overworked and, in
his own view, misunderstood,
the camel spends most of his
time uttering moans and groans
at the burdens he is forced to
hump, the ugliness of his life
and the cruelty of his pygmy
master, man . . .
Impatient train - passengers
who were held-up by the two
on the Adelaide-Gawler line
would probably agree with the
above as an accurate thumb-
nail-profile of the camel. Even
so, this country owes the same
surly animal a very definite
debt of gratitude.
■Cor more than a century
camels pioneered in the
waterless Australian inland
where trains did not reach and
horses could not work.
Now scorned as pests be-
cause an estimated 50,000 of
them are running wild in our
deserts, they once plodded
along scores of overland tracks
with explorers, prospectors and
life-giving supplies for outback
stations.
Australia’s first camel stepped
ashore at Port Adelaide from
the ship Oppoline in 1840. It
was one of a consignment of
nine imported by the Phillips
brothers, but all the others died
on the voyage.
The history of this lonely
animal is obscure until 1846,
when it passed into the hands
of a young Cornish settler
named John Horrocks, who set
out on it to penetrate wild
country to the west of Lake
Torrens.
Five days out Horrocks
halted his mount while he took
a shot at a “strange and beauti-
ful bird” he wanted to add to
his collection. He gave the
usual “whoosh” command, and
the camel obediently went
down with its inevitable
broken-hearted moan. Horrocks
took out his gun, but while he
was loading it the camel
lurched and knocked its pack
against the hammer
The weapon discharged,
shooting Horrocks in the left
cheek. He got back to a
settlement, but died three weeks
later, after giving orders that
the camel was to be destroyed.
In his diary he explained he
was not vindictively destroy-
ing the creature, but “in view
of prejudice against camels I
wish it killed to save it from
the misery of ill-treatment and
neglect.”
A ustralia remained camel-
free after that until the
Victorian Government im-
ported 24 from Peshawar in
1860 for the Burke and Wills
expedition.
They created chaos on arrival
in Melbourne, unsettling all
the horses for miles around.
Normal transport those days,
hundreds of Melbourne’s horses
nearly went crazy, as horses in-
variably do at the sight or even
the smell of camels.
Cases of this antipathy of
horses for camels go back as
far as 550 b.c., when Cyrus
(leading the Persians against
the Lydians under Croesus)
scored a sweeping victory in
the Battle of Sardis. The sup-
posedly unbeatable cavalry
of Croesus were thrown into a
turmoil when Cyrus put soldiers
on his baggage-camels and
made them his front line of
attack. The cavalry horses
went mad, threw their riders
and stampeded back through
Croesus’ own rearguard . . .
Here in Australia, six years
after the ill-fated Burke and
Wills expedition, South Aus-
tralian pastoralist Sir Thomas
Elder imported 120 camels
and established a stud at his
Beltana station, and gradually
camels came into widespread
use in the semi-arid interior,
where they required only one-
tenth of the quantity of water
needed by horses.
The South Australian Gov-
ernment, which considered Sir
Thomas Elder’s prices were too
high, established its own camel-
stud after a few years, and use
of the ship of the desert spread
to Queensland, Western Aus-
tralia and the far west of
N.S.W.
A ustralian conditions were
ideal for the oonts. The
desert outback was a veritable
Shangri-la compared with their
natural habitat in Africa and
Asia.
After a few generations the
Australian - born camel was
much bigger and enjoyed 10
or more years’ longer life than
his imported ancestors. Young
were born at two-year intervals
instead of three, and were fully
grown and fit for work at
three years instead of five.
Hergott Springs—now Marree
—about 400 miles north of
Adelaide, developed into Aus-
tralia’s great camel-depot.
Afghans who had been im-
ported as drivers made-up half
the town’s population in the
heydey of the camel-trade.
After their contracts expired
many of them became indepen-
dent hawkers in charge of their
own teams, with which they
ranged over most of inland
Australia.
In Marree big-time camel-
dealers developed, such as
Sultan Raz Mahomed, who
always had a stock of about
600-700 camels, and Faiz apd
Tagh Mahomed, who owned
about 1000 between them.
Many Australian explorers,
down to C. T. Madigan’s ex-
pedition which crossed the
Simpson Desert in 1939, owed
their success tp camels. In
1875, crossing from Perth to
Adelaide via the Gascoyne, the
Murchison and Lake Eyre,
Ernest Giles on one occasion
covered 220 waterless miles in
eight days with his oonts. He
watered his string and then pro-
ceeded another 325 miles in 17
days, on an issue of only one
bucket of water for each of
them in that period.
t
Qn camels in 1891 David
Lindsay and a party of 14
plodded over 650 miles of
Westralian sandhills in 35 days
—the animals receiving only 7|
gallons of water each.
Probably no one in Australia
knew more about camels than
Lindsay. He taught his own
favorite mount, Miserai, to
chase aborigines like a dog
when they threatened him.
After the Coolgardie gold-
discovery Lindsay took 50
camels across from Port
Augusta and made a fortune
with a transport-business that
took the gold out from the
fields and returned with stores
and necessities for the miners.
Later explorer Michael
Terry, who also used camels
extensively on his inland treks
between the world wars, has
rather more respect for their
intelligence than most people
who have had contact with the
animals.
One of his favorites on an
expedition to the Petermann
Range, far west of Alice
Springs, was an individualistic
beast called Palowon.
Terry swears that Palowon
had a sense of humor. Its line
of fun was scaring the day-
lights out of anyone who
stepped too close to it. Very
gently Palowon would bend
down and nip the back of the
unwary neck.
When the victim of the joke
leapt back in alarm, Palowon
would put on an unmistakable
camel grin that seemed to be
saying, “That scared you, didn’t
it? Could have bitten your
head off!”


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COC'RT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOHN EDWARD LEDSAM late of
34 Lamrock Avenue Bondi near Syd-
ney.—TAKE NOTICE that FRANCES
MAY LEDSAM has filed a Petition for
Div'orce No. 1706 of 1960 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance In the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Syd-
ney by 26th August 1960 and obtain a
copv of the Petition without charge
from lAN B. WALKER, Solicitor, of
247 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO BRUCE RUSSELL BEMBRICK.—
TAKE NOTICE that PATRICIA MARIE-
BEMBRICK has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1560 of 1960 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
IF you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court House Macquarie Street
Sydney by the twenty-second day of
August 1960 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
JENKINS & HARMER, Solicitors, 133
Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES--In Divorce.
TO WALLACE ARMSTRONG (formerly
of 83 Church Street Parramatta). —
TAKE NOTICE that LAWRENCE
ALPHONSUS MURPHY has filed a Peti-
tion in Divorce No. 91 of 1960 against
his wife SHIRLEY MAE MURPHY ou
the grounds of adultery and you aye
named as Co-Respondent If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by the 27th
day of August, 1960 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
HAROLD RICH, Solicitor, 83 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
would it give any advantage to
employers. It is reasonable
that one who has served the
same boss for many years
should enjoy the right. The
mere fact that a person spends
most of his life working, though
for many employers and prob-
ably in a variety of jobs, does
not justify his being granted it.
Moreover, many casual
workers are paid at a higher
rate to compensate them for
their ineligibility for the long-
Long-service Leave
The N.S.W. Government’s
decision to grant long-service
leave to casual workers in the
State is carrying the principle
to the height of absurdity.
Long-service leave was de-
vised to enable employers to
attract and retain a good class
of employee. Its extension to
the whole body of regularly-
employed workers in the State
was defended by its sponsor,,
the late Premier J. J. Cahill, on
the ground that it would be of
benefit to employers as well as
their staff by preventing drift
of employees from firm to
firm ; and by enabling em-
ployers to maintain an experi-
enced labor-force it would help
advance efficiency in industry.
By no stretch of the imagina-
tion can casual workers be said
to be entitled to such a privi-
lege —nor, applied to them,
"It's always worn that Way in his country — it's the
Order of the Boot-upstairs."
service leave, sick-leave and
annual - holiday benefits en-
joyed by permanent employees.
—Farinmail (N.S.W.).
Prison Training
The opinion of top prison-
administrators from all Aus-
tralian States, N.Z. and the
Territory of Papua that reform
and rehabilitation of prisoners
i? a leading social problem will
be shared by many.
The administrators —met in
Melbourne for the first Aus-
tralasian conference —called for
finance to enable full develop-
ment of education-services and
rehabilitation-programmes.
Just what we are losing as a
nation by the population of
our prisons is indicated by the
fact that a million man-days a
year are at present lost in
N.S.W. and two-thirds of a
million .in Victoria, not to
mention the other States and
Territories.
The latest prison vocational-
training methods ensure that a
man who comes in with no
skills goes out with something
to help him lead a normal,
useful life. The system, at
least in Victoria, also enables
much positive work to be done
on behalf of charitable organi-
sations —particularly hospitals
—by working-parties from jails.
There’s a growing public
awareness of what our training-
ing-prisons are trying to do,
and this has taken the form of
frequent visits to prisons by
concert and dramatic groups.
This awakening public con-
science should mean that more
finance will become available
to perform what is an essen-
tial social function. — Plain
Australian (Vic.).
Rationed Education
“Wusslean” is certainly right
in his criticism of university
entrance-quotas (B. 1/6/’6O).
It is not sufficiently realised
that the average Australian
university is a monopoly. It
alone can provide a person
with an admission-ticket to
certain professions. For ex-
ample, if a young man wishes
to practise medicine he has no
alternative but to obtain his
training at “the university.”
To become eligible for this
training he must meet the
university’s entrance-standards.
Needless to say, a university
has every right to prescribe
such standards so long as they
are reasonable, as a basic mini-
mum; but if a quota-system is
added the university has in
fact two standards—one pre-
scribed for matriculation, an-
other for actual enrolment.
If we had some device for
accurately predicting success at
the university a quota based on
this device would, of course,
be justified ; but the plain fact
is that we haven’t. Ne'ther a
good matriculation pass nor a
good “profile” on psychologi-
cal tests, including I.Q. tests,
will ensure graduation.
The trouble with all such
blunt instruments of selection
is that they reject some students
who could succeed at the uni-
versity. This is not only grossly
unfair to the students concerned
—having regard to the mono-
polistic position of a university
—but it denies the community
the graduates it needs. .
Another aspect, often over-
looked, is that an unrealistic-
ally high entrance-standard dis-
courages school-pupils from
aiming for a degree and re-
duces the number of school-
teacher graduates. This in turn
reduces the number of pupils
being adequately prepared for
university studies.
University authorities con-
cerned over failure-rates should
give more attention to selecting
lecturers who can convey know-
ledge as well as acquire it.
This, and a little more “pastoral
care,” would achieve more
than a quota-system. —K.A.L.
(N.S.W.)
“Unity in Diversity”
It may not have been with-
out significance that Mr.
Menzies used the Indonesian
national slogan “Unity in
Diversity” in the course of his
Smuts Memorial lecture at
Cambridge during his recent
visit to England.
He was not, of course, re-
ferring to Indonesia, but what
he had to say might be taken
to heart by those persons who
suggest, surely unthinkingly,
that one argument in the West
New Guinea dispute is the
differences in race between the
peoples of New Guinea and
other parts of the East Indian
archipelago (an argument which
ignores the varied races mingled
in Britain, in Holland, and even
in Australia).
Mr. Menzies said he did not
think diversity was a bad thing,
and that, in reality, it was as
good Constitutionally as it was
agriculturally. The old British


IN GOLF . . ,
EXPERIENCE IS THE GREAT TEACHER
IN SCOTCH . . . /
TEACHER’S
IS THE GREAT EXPERIENCE
Xx," --
tfliigiii
HIGHLAffi
CRcAM”:
Wm
JtaentyiM
KM
Teachers
CREAM
Vi/jcpivJ
erfeenon of
jf ?
coteh V/b'S^“
t. Sons
scow
Sam Richardson. Twice professional champion of Australia.
Seven times foursomes champion of N.S.W.
Only long experience could produce Scotch of
such unvarying quality and good taste as Teacher’s
Highland Cream. Today, as since 1830, the Teacher
family still personally supervises the making of this
world famous product of Scotland.
Teacher’s
HIGHLAND CREAM
Scotch Whisky
Agents: — N.S.W.: Tucker & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. Victoria: C. &E.
Baitz Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. Queensland: The Australian Estates
Company Ltd., Brisbane. South Australia: Goldsbrough Mort & Co.
Ltd., Adelaide.
TWS-83N.655C.
Empire, he recalled, had had
great diversities of institutions,
creed, tradition, culture and
race, and the new Common-
wealth had added some of its
own.
Such diversities, he said, so
long as they gave rise to
different points of view and
promoted the frankest ex-
changes of opinion and did not,
give rise to hatreds, were good.
When they were dealt with
properly they promoted true
friendship and co-operation by
widening the boundaries of
understanding and tolerance,
and served to create a sense of
the interdependence of in-
dependent minds and nations.
These were sound views.
They can be appreciated in
many contexts. Charles
Meeking (N.S.W.).
Vengeance or Law?
The capture and abduction
from Argentina of Adolph
Eichmann, former chief ex-
terminator of the Nazi Jewish-
annihilation gang (Judenver-
nichtung), presents the world
with something new in the
history of relentness pursuit of
a wanted State-enemy.
From the hounding by the
Romans of the fallen Hannibal
to the “execution” of Leon
Trotsky in Mexico by the
agents of the Bolsheviks, most
of the characters relentlessly
pursued have been men who,
either by their past actions or
potential, have constituted, as
long as they remained above
ground, menaces to the States
from which they had fled or
against whom they had made
war.
The Eichmann case, however,
is different. Eichmann was
not one of the top-rank Nazis ;
he was the ruthless instrument
of Hitler anti-Semitism whose
translation of Nazi Jew-baiting
became so frightful that the
former pogroms of Eastern
Europe seem, by comparison,
merely town brawls. It is
obvious, therefore, that not a
single tear will be shed over
Eichmann’s fate, whatever it
may be.
But other aspects of the case
are not so clear-cut; and these
should be pondered if inter-
national law, kicked around by
all-and-sundry during the past
half-century, is not to be
swallowed-up in anarchy.
It has now been established
that the Israeli Secret Service
men got onto Eichmann's
tracks by a process of elimina-
tion, during which he was
searched for wherever knots of
surviving Nazis were likely to
be found. The search led,
after about a 10-year hunt, to
Argentina. According to reli-
able reports, Eichmann was
offered the alternative of a
sudden end on the spot or a
public trial in Israel. He chose
the latter, for some reason
known only to himself, and
was then secretly whisked away
to the Levant.
This was done with the
authority of the Israeli Govern-
ment, but not with that of
Argentina, and was a breach
of international law such as
would not be tolerated by any
self-respecting Government of a
civilised, or even half-civilised,
country.
From Tel Aviv came the in-
formation that Eichmann was
to be tried by an Israeli court
for an offence against a law
enacted by Israel in 1950,
Eichmann’s crimes, committed
at least 10 years earlier, were
thus committed not only against
a law that was not in force at
the time but against a State
that did not exist. In the eyes
of a rational world such
proceedings simply make a
mockery of law.
Moreover, it was expected
by most intelligent observers
that the Ben-Gurion Cabinet
would, having got their quarry,
show some regard for even
token justice by calling upon,
say, the Court of International
Justice at The Hague to appoint
a tribunal with an international
personnel to try this man, as
was done in the case of the
leading Nazi gangsters. But,
to the moment, Bun-Gurion is
adamant, and one must be


forgiven for assuming that the
dictum of Grotius—that the
degree of civilisation reached
by a nation can be measured
by the way it administers justice
—has been ignored.
Naturally, no one would
care if in Eichmann's case
justice were not tempered with
mercy; but few will believe
that here it is not tainted by
vengeance, an aspect which the
Israelis in particular can’t
afford to disregard. F.A.
(N.S.W.).
The Text-book Row
The outburst by Newcastle
(N.S.W.) Anglican Synod and
other Anglican churchmen
against a N.S.W. school history-
textbook, The Modern World,
by O. W. Hunt, 8.A., B.Ec., on
the ground that it misrepresents
the history of the English
Reformation was unreasonable.
The passage, described by one
critic as “repugnant to the
truth and to the Church of
England,” reads: —-
In England, Henry VIII wished
to divorce Catherine of Aragon
and marry Anne Boleyn, a pretty
young maid-of-honor.
When the Pope refused a divorce,
Henry denounced his authority,
and in 1535 Parliament passed the
Act of Supremacy, declaring that
the King was the only supreme
Head on earth of the Church of
England.
Thus the Papal authority was
pushed aside, and the Anglican
Church became the national Church
of England.
The last paragraph is awk-
wardly expressed, but other-
wise the passage, so far as so
compressed an exposition
allows, is correct as regards
facts.
Historians generally date the
establishment of the Church of
England from the Synod of
Whitby (a.d. 664), when the
Celtic Church and the British
Roman Church came together.
Henry was a schismatic, not
a heretic. To the day of his
death he was a staunch
Catholic in doctrine. Had
he reared a son by his
first Queen, Catherine of
Aragon, it is unlikely that he
would have sought a divorce.
In that case there would have
been no break with the Papacy,
in his time at least.
Had Queen Catherine not
been the aunt of the most
powerful sovereign in Christen-
dom, the Emperor Charles V,
there is every reason to believe
that the Pope would have
agreed to the divorce Charles s
troops had sacked Rome m
.^. ear ,. wrath was
the decisive factor in the Pope s
refusal of the English King’s
application.
Thus it is not straining the
facts of history to say that it
was Henry’s desire for Anne
Boleyn, and for a son to suc-
ceed him, that really brought
about the English Reformation.
His break with the Papacy
paved the way for England to
become a Protestant country,
though it was not until the
reign of Anne's daughter,
Elizabeth I, that the Reforma-
tion became firmly established,
Elizabeth had a poor title to
th rone and was obliged to
re ]y on t j-, e SU pp or t G f elements
prepared to back her on con-
djtion that she favored Pro .
testantism. She herself appears
to have been inclined lo C atho-
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims jwhich state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
licism. She certainly was
strongly opposed to the marri-
age of priests, though she
allowed it, her supporters
favoring it.
Having no liking for the
more thoroughgoing forms of
Protestantism, and being aware
that the mass of Englishmen
would not stomach any of them
either, she allowed only a
moderate degree of change in
doctrine, and also retained the
old hierarchical Church organi-
sation. Thus the basic charac-
teristics of the modern Church
of England—apart from the
Anglo-Catholic wing—may be
said to date from her reign.—
Terry the Tory (N.S.W.).
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 596
Across
I—The1 —The habit they have is not enough for them, but it’s
not the drinking habit. (10)
s—Racket5 —Racket ascent. (4)
9 —The people engaged in pre-Nelson arrangements. (9)
11 — One used to torchbearing pronouns. (5)
12 — Gaoled in the veteran stage. (3, 3)
13 — Very jittery, a foreign soldier thanks Edward. (8)
14 — Confronting Forte and serving successfully. (6)
15—Inheritor henchman of Hitler is
full of anger. (7)
18—Stone developed out of the
mere lad. (7)
20—Row behind us. (6)
23 They pick up telecasts with a
figure turning an East. (8)
24 — He has a loaf to start with in
the sandwich shop. (6)
26 Show ordained vowels. (5)
27 — Measures after exposure to the
sun food. (9)
28 — Neither good nor bad, the sign
of distress is associated with
love. (2-2)
29 Parent vizier in Abyssinia to*
feature nothing but a liqueur. (10)
Down
1 — Censures cloth shelters. (8)
2 An Evatt run over by a car,
according to Caractacus. (7)
3 One on a home of Celtic
Christianity. (4)
4 Clue goes haywire—that’s
Horace’s work! (8)
6 Current detests a faithful
follower. (7)
7 A bit of fishing gear heartens
a humorous distortion of a
literary work. (6)
8 — But call us Lindsey for strain-
ing, (6, 6)
10 —Alternative gang who might take
the rind off a hurdy-gurdy
man. (5-7)
16 — Jolson meat needs a garment;
that’s Granada’s pride. (8)
17 — What may be drunk in the
Thames Press Office? (8)
19 —Saying Burl has reasons for
acting. (7)
21— Pius XII is father to musical
instruments. (7)
22 — Tricasseed brains for the
kiddies. (6)
25—Prophet upset like this parent
body. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 595


ft "
4F
mrlty CAT*
diesel tractors
Only Caterpillar Track-type Tractors give you all this:
• MORE FROM THE START: You get added values and inbuilt quality for more life, more
production that others cannot match at the price.
• LOWEST RUNNING COSTS: Burning low-cost non-premium diesel fuel, Caterpillar Track-
type Tractors save real fnoney on every tankful (20%-25% on annual .fuel bills).
• NO ORPHAN MODELS: Replacement parts are still available for the first Caterpillar
Track-type Tractor built!
• UNMATCHED W & J SERVICE: With seven highly staffed and equipped country branch
workshops, resident country servicemen and a vast inventory of genuine replacement
parts, W & J has State-wide Caterpillar service completely under control.
• LOWEST DEPRECIATION: Cat Diesel Tractors are "blood-brothers" to other Caterpillar-
built machines that have clocked over 100,000 work hours and are still going strong.
• HIGHEST WORKPOWER: A Cat Track-type Tractor gives big savings in maintenance
and labour—not to mention year-round adaptability for land clearing, tank sinking
and property improvements.
• INSURANCE against crop failure that goes with every machine
—the ability of Caterpillar Track-type Tractors to go when wheel
tractors can't get a footing.
Naturally you won't buy a Caterpillar Diesel Tractor for its
handsome resale value. You'll buy it to work—and that's what
it's built for; just check on its resale value for
the proof. There's always a solid market for
quality tractors made by Caterpillar.
Inbuilt quality that
costs no more when
you buy
gets you £loo's
more should you
ever decide to sell!
I
5V" 1
Aik your IV fi J representative to
give you the full facts on the
Caterpillar Equipment specifically
designed to handle your job more
profitably.
m
CATERPILI.A
* CATERPILLAR, CAT and TRAXCAVATOR are Registered Trademarks
•f Caterpillar Tractor Co., U.S.A.
TRACTORS, MOTOR GRADERS, EARTHMOVING EQUIP-
MENT, INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE DIESEL ENGINES,
• _
WJ229.115
Sold, serviced and backed fa the hilt in N.S.W. by:
WAUGH & JOMPHSON PTY. UMITKD
YEARS A
CATERPILLAR
DEALER '
Head Office: Mitchell Road, Alexandria, Sydney. Thone: LA 6631.
Branches at Gunnedah, 'phone 326; Parkes, 'phone 1266; Wagga, 'phone
8237; South Grafton, 'phone 392; Inverell, 'phone 1400; Cooma, 'phone
657; Moree, 'phone 208; Bathurst, 'phone 2874.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
LAND HEALTH
By LADY EVE BALFOUR
(Continued)
Ts it true that balance and re-
suiting health [in agriculture]
can be restored by “organic”
methods of production? In
the present state of our know-
ledge, it might be an overstate-
ment to give an unqualified
“yes” in answer to that ques-
tion, but using our measure-
ment of practical results it can
be stated that again and again,
and in many parts of the world,
health and disease-resistance
reaching near-immunity (and
therefore presumably a restora-
tion of balance) has followed a
change from orthodox to
organic methods. Here are
just a few examples, chosen at
random from among the very
large number that I have either
seen for myself, or of which I
have first-hand documentary
evidence.
U.S.A.: In cotton —a crop in
which pest-damage and spray-
control are racing each other
for ascendancy—the pests are
at present in the lead.
Import restrictions set
in March 1959, by the
State of California
against Canadian sheep
have been lifted. The
ban was placed because
Canadian sheep had
been exposed to
scrapie, a disease for
which there is no
known cure. The ban
had been lifted be-
cause a scrapie eradi-
cation programme was
adopted.
Australian graziers
know the value derived
from the use of Elas-
trator, the proven
method of Castrating
and Tailing Elastra-
tor is safe, sure and
humane. Elastrator
Green Rubber Rings
•are antiseptically treated
for your 1 a m b"s
protection.
Two cottongrowers in south-
west Texas changed to organic
methods six or seven years ago,
substituting compost for chemi-
cal fertilisers. Result: greatly
increased yields, and for the
last five years no need to use
any sprays.
Oranges. Spray - programme in-
creasing every year, both as to
“How lucky you came along! I need a push-off!”
numbers of applications and toxicity
of sprays. Many groves abandoned
through disease.
A few growers in California,
Texas and Florida changed to
organic methods. Result:
disease cleared-up, sprays be-
came unnecessary.
Corn. Steadily declining yields
and protein-content have followed
extensive use of chemical fertilisers.
Farmers in lowa and Illinois
have, alone in their districts,
maintained yields and protein-
content by sticking to tradi-
tional organic methods.
Jamaica: Panama-disease in
bananas cured by organic
methods, including encourage-
ment of weeds, compost, and
the introduction of cattle.
Europe: Surrounded by
orthodox holdings, where pest
and disease are rife despite con-
tinual and costly sprayings, are
to be seen organic market-
gardens where no sprays are
used and which are virtually
free from disease and pests.
I have myself seen two let-
tuce crops divided only by a
foot-wide strip of grass, one
belonging to an orthodox hold-
ing, the other to an organic
holding. The first was nearly
destroyed by aphis, despite
dustings: on the other I failed
to find a single insect.
I have seen all the follow-
ing cured through a change to
organic methods: big-bud in
black-currants, virus in iris,
eelworm in potatoes and
chrysanthemums, many of the
diseases of fruit-trees, most
tomato diseases, strawberry
virus and many more.
On farms, the following have
resulted from a change to
organic methods: a higher total
solids-content in all produce;
the disappearance of deficiency
diseases in livestock, including
those only now beginning to
be recognised as deficiency
diseases, such as contagious
abortion and mastitis. (It may
be a coincidence that in 1952,
the year when France was
swept by the worst epidemic of
foot-and-mouth disease in her
history, no single case occurred
in a certain section of the Dor-
dogne valley, in the department
of Lot, where diversified
peasant farming still follows
the best traditional organic
methods).
Such cases can be multiplied
many times, and come also
from Africa, Australia, New
Zealand and many other coun-
tries. They are, moreover, in-
creasing every year. The num-
bers have long since passed the
point of statistical significance.
There must be something im-
portant to learn from them.
Why are they still ignored or
discounted by orthodox scien-
tific establishments? Are the
scientists too busy looking for
the wrong things? Or asking
the wrong questions?
It is an undoubted fact that
the principal occupation of
almost all agricultural research-
stations today is the search for
ways and means to combat
-plant and animal diseases and
pests. This endeavor becomes
more costly each year and
appears to be a losing battle.
May this not be because the
scientists are so obsessed and
pre-occupied with sickness that
they fail to study health? Most
of them appear to -be asking,
“Ho<v can we destroy such and
such a pest, or cure such and
such a disease?” The question
displays a' negative approach
because the answer at best can
only be remedial. But a few
research - workers, signposting
a new direction for others to
follow, have begun to pose the
positive question: “What is
health, how can we promote it
and so foster natural resist-
ance?” All the indications,
so far, are that the answers to
this question are likely to be
far more fruitful in their prac-
tical results than anything
which agricultural science has
hitherto achieved.
What,'then, is health? The
derivation of the word is whole-
ness, a point that should not
be lost sight of. The late Aldo
Leopold, a great American
ecologist and naturalist, has
defined it as the “capacity of
a living organism for internal
self - renewal.” Two English
biologists and research-workers
have defined it as “mutual syn-
thesis between organism and
environment.” Inherent in both
definitions is the idea that
health is not a state but a
dynamic process. You cannot
weigh, measure or analyse a
process, but it is sometimes
possible to follow its course.
The organic cultivator believes
that its course is identical with
the flow of the nutrition cycle,
and that to promote it one
must, therefore, keep open all
the living channels of this flow,
though no one yet knows what
they all are, or even the true
nature of the flow itself. That
land is a great storehouse for
it, however, seems clear. What,
then, is land? Once more let
me give Leopold's definition:
“Land ... is not merely soil;
it is a fountain of energy flow-
ing through a circuit of soils,
plants and animals. Food-
chains are the living channels
which conduct energy upward;
death and decay return it to
the soil.” Soil fertility he de-
fines as “the capacity of soil to
receive, store and transmit
energy.”
Here we have an idea capable
of revolutionising agricultural
thought and practices—that the
nutrition-chain is not merely a
flow of nutrient materials from
one form of life to another,
but also a circuit of energy.
The science of chemistry, on
which most agricultural science


It’s got the lot . . .
It's a Tilley!
There’s only one kind of portable kerosene heater worth having—the
best! And that’s the Tilley. It’s warmer, cleaner, safer ... and it burns
for 12 hours on only 1| pints of kerosene. The Tilley Portable Pressure-
Kerosene Heater is a first-class engineering product. . . and 100 %
British Made.
£8.8.0
(freight extra outside
metropolitan area)
«
Tt
r'/v
\ h
REGD.
TRUST TILLEY
for lighting and heating
Obtainable from all good hardware store* throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest stockist to: —
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE*
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victorias
is still based, is obviously in-
adequate to study such a flow.
Indeed this particular form of
energy (which distinguishes the
living from the dead) is not yet
capable of measurement by
any recognised science. If, as
seems probable, it can be trans-
mitted only by life, the differ-
ence in resulting plant-growth
following the application of,
for example, a living compost
and the ash of the same com-
post after incineration, can
readily be understood. The
fallacy of basing the supposed
needs of plants on the com-
position of their ash also
becomes apparent. Something
chemically the same may be
very different as a conductor
of living energy.
Recent research has demon-
strated that plants absorb
through their roots quite com-
plicated organic compounds ;
that these compounds are the
product of microbiological soil
life; that upon their presence,
and intake by plants, depends
the latter’s capacity to manu-
facture the quality of protein
required for disease and pest
resistance, normal reproduc-
tion, and adequate nutrition for
the animal consumer of the
plant. This new knowledge is
in the process of profoundly
altering present teaching on the
role of organic matter in soil.
Without understanding all
that is, or may be, involved, it
would appear that by his insist-
ence on the importance of life;
of the return of all organic
wastes to the soil; of a diversity
of crops and livestock; of the
right to existence of fauna and
flora other than those of direct
economic value to himself; by
his avoidance of crude chemi-
cals, and his attempt to provide
the conditions in which natural
biological balance will prevent
the multiplication of any one
species to pest proportions, the
organic cultivator has evolved
practices which will one day
be recognised as far more
scientific than those which at
present pass under that name.
Many of the so-called im-
provements in modern agricul-
tural techniques have been well
described by Leopold as im-
provements to the pump —not
to the well. They have been
developed as the result of a
process of thought which has
ignored the complex interplay
of species which built the
original fertile soils; which has
deliberately planned the des-
truction of whole species with-
out a thought being given as to
whether their continued exist-
ence may be necessary to main-
tenance of the soil fertility they
helped to build; which has
advocated remedial measures,
to deal with the problems
arising from a declining fer-
tility, which treat symptoms
only, and which, ignoring
nature’s danger signals, “pro-
tect” plants, weakened to the
point of having already lost
their capacity for “internal
self-renewal,” with death-deal-
ing sprays. Thus, to food which
is already low in nutritional
value (the capacity to transmit
energy) is now added the
hazard of a host of poisons.
It is easy enough to see how
this state of affairs came about.
The motives in nearly every
case were good ones. The only
fault that can justifiably be
blamed is the arrogance of an
age that thought man knew
better than his Creator.
The climate of thought is
now changing. A change in
thinking must always precede
a change in action, but no
opportunity should be lost to
hasten the change before it is
too late. To this end the sooner
the organic pioneers and ortho-
dox science begin to get closer
together the better. This can-
not be done by dogmatism on
either side, but only by open-
minded willingness to co-oper-
ate to establish the new, ready
to be born, science of Land
Health.
Nitrite-poisoning
“Bovar”: Nitrite-poisoning
means sudden death to cattle,
sheep and pigs, so farmers
should be familiar with its
symptoms and able to identify
it immediately an animal be-
comes ill.
Clearest subsequent sign is
that the blood of a poisoned
animal turns a chocolate color.
Examine the small blood-vessel
underneath the eyelids and
round the eyebail, which will
be quite brown and remain so
for a few hours after death.
Puncture an ear-vein, and look
at the color where the blood
flows from the ear; it reverts
to its normal red color after a
short exposure to the air.
Symptoms in cattle and sheep
include rapid breathing and
twitching muscles, and the in-
side of . the mouth becomes
bluish. Pigs usually vomit and
squeal; this is followed by
staggering, rapid breathing and
collapse.
Nitrite kills by suffocation.
It acts as a poison by prevent-
ing the blood from absorbing
oxygen in the lungs. Diagnosed
in its early stages such poison-
ing can be successfully treated.
A weak solution of methylene-
blue dye injected into the
bloodstream is an effective
antidote, but the skill of a
veterinary surgeon or stock-
inspector is needed to ensure
giving the correct dose.
Cattle and sheep usually
develop nitrite-poisoning after
eating mint-weed or variegated-
thistle. About 21b. of mint-
weed will poison a steer, and
hungry, travelling stock are
most likely to be affected. The
nitrite is formed during diges-
tion.
Pigs usually suffer from the
poisoning through eating
cooked food that contains
nitrites. Piggeries where soups
are fed are therefore likely to
have trouble with this type of
poisoning.
Die-back in Fruit-trees
“Fruit Cocky’’: There’s been
a lot of research on the subject
of die-back and many findings
have been published, but there’s
still no answer to be found in
the textbooks. Die-back can be
caused by so many different
infections.
So it’s up to the grower to
make his own decision: either
to bring in the bulldozer and
get it over with, or to try some
form of treatment—which may
be a long-term project and in
the end haye little effect.
I know of a block of 50
Early Lyons cherries which,
badly afflicted with bacterial
canker (gumnosis) and in gener-
ally low condition, narrowly
escaped being condemned in
1939. Instead, a careful pro-
gramme was decided upon—
regular removal of dead wood,
improved fertilising, spraying
and cultivating—and this is
still going on. Today, 21 years
later, all these trees are still
alive, bearing and moderately
vigorous. They are still dying-
back, but now only in a very
restrained way. If they had
been taken out, cross-pollina-
tion for more valuable varieties
close-by would have been lost.
Replants in old cherry-ground
would have had an uphill
struggle—and if this form of
bacterial canker attacks young


cherry-trees it often means
sudden death.
There are two points which
should be observed in treat-
ment, both contrary to usual
practice. Dead wood should
not be removed in winter but
in spring or autumn, when the
organism is less active. Cuts
should not be painted with any-
thing; exposure to light is quite
effective as a treatment.
Two of the commonest forms
of die-back in apple-trees are
Schizophyllum also called
“ink-stain fungus”—and Poly-
stictus. In 1942 a block of about
40 bearing apple-trees was
re-worked, mostly by stump-
grafting, and a bad infection
of ink-stain fungus followed.
This is a heart-rot, and treat-
ment consisted of scooping-out
and packing the cavity with
Bordeaux paste. A complete
cure resulted, and all these
trees are alive and vigorous
today. Treatment, prompt and
persistent, took about six years
to complete.
Polystictus first attacks the
bark, and then runs down a
limb from top to bottom in
true die-back fashion, until the
limb is finally killed completely.
The process may take a few
years; then the fungus infects
another limb and the whole
cycle is repeated. Infected
wood may be trimmed-off and
Bordeaux paint applied, but
this infection is stubborn.
Perhaps the most important
factor in treatment is to try to
improve the tree’s general
vigor. Infected wood removed
from the trees should always
be burned.
Prevention is better than
cure; so it’s as well to remember
that all these destructive organ-
isms generally gain their first
foothold through an injury—
through pruning- or grafting-
scars, for instance, or through
cracks, broken limbs or even
sunburn.
Generally, in all cases of die-
back, think twice before pull-
ing-out the trees, unless the
victim is in a really bad way or
unless the variety is no good
anyhow.
Insect Immunity
“M’Lou”: Among all insects
there are individuals with
strong potential resistance to
any insecticide used against
them. These, having survived
the attack, are free to breed
progeny with greater and
greater immunity.
As early as 1908 it was found
in the U.S.A. that San Jose
scale had become resistant
to the orthodox lime-sulphur
treatment, and other insects
were developing resistance to
H.C.N., tartar - emetic and
arsenical compounds.
D.D.T. was hailed as the
answer to all insect-pest prob-
lems, but it, too, by selecting
the naturally resistant few, is
becoming ineffective as im-
munity against it is built-up by
their offspring. In 1946 D.D.T.-
resistant strains of houseflies
appeared, and similar strains of
other insects have since been
found.
D.D.T.’s victory over the
destructive codling-moth has
“Pull over! Who do you think you ar e—BEN-HUR?
also proved only temporary;
after some years in abeyance
this pest is again becoming
active in South Australian and
Victorian commercial orchards.
In a few instances the increased
numbers of codling may be due
to faulty application, poor
timing and lowered concentra-
tion of sprays, but D.D.T.-
resistant strains of codling-
moth have undoubtedly been
evolved.
These strains, too, are show-
ing cross-resistance to com-
pounds chemically similar to
D.D.T. Fortunately they show
no such cross-resistance to
organic-phosphate compounds
like malathion, parathion, dia-
zinon, dipterex and gusathion
at present, though it’s always
possible that continued applica-
tions of these may eliminate
only the more susceptible types,
and so develop strains resistant
to these insecticides also.
Extra-high concentration and
too frequent application of
practically any insecticide
hastens the selection and build-
ing-up of resistant strains, so
great care is needed to apply
only sufficient concentrations,
correctly timed and at minimum
frequency. Though at present
Victoria has several chemically
different insecticides with
which to control its insect pests,
unwise use could allow resistant
strains to develop and render
any, or even all, of these in-
effective.
New Tobacco
Varieties
“Myall”: Last year officers
at the Queensland Agricultural
Department’s tobacco experi-
mental-station at Inglewood
produced 11 new varieties re-
sistant to blue-mould, a fungus-
disease which destroys about 30
per cent, of Australian tobacco-
crops each year.
The strains have been devel-
oped from a Hicks parent,
one of the most common
varieties grown throughout the
Commonwealth. They have
been tested in several Austra-
lian States, and the leaf pro-
duced cured beautifully, having
all the attributes of a good
tobacco.
Samples of the leaf of all 11
strains have been forwarded to
a leading cigarette-manufac-
turer for approval, and if they
pass all tests a market for the
leaf will be assured.
Seed of the resistant varieties
will be made available next
season, provided the leaf tests
are satisfactory.
Specimens of these new
strains were exhibited at the
Australian National Tobacco
Show at Goondiwindi, and it
was impossible to distinguish
them from the Hicks types
usually grown. Production of
the new varieties save tobacco-
growers much labor and ex-
pense.
Seedbeds should be made in
new ground, situated some dis-
tance from land where tobacco
has previously been grown.
The beds must be well drained
and in an open, sunny position.
Before sowing it is wise to
heat-sterilise the seedbeds, to
destroy soil-inhabiting organ-
isms. Take care that seed is
from healthy plants which
have not been attacked by blue-
mould or other diseases.
Seed should be sterilised be-
fore sowing by immersing in a
solution of silver-nitrate at a
1-in-1000 strength for 15min.,
and then rinsing several times
in clean rainwater.
Seed is broadcast thinly, and
covered with J4 n - of fine, light
soil, and the young plants
thinned if they come too
thickly.
Control of blue-mould is
helped by the use of benzol and
gas-tight covers placed over the
beds —usually 10ft. by 4ft. (the
most convenient size). Covers
are constructed from gal-
vanised-iron, with sides Ift.
high to allow good clearance
above the plants. The benzol
is poured into shallow tins
about 4in. square and ljin.
deep and placed on stands
about 6in. above ground-level,
spaced evenly along the length
of the beds. In North Queens-
land’s conditions lsq.-in. of
evaporating space to each
square-foot of seedbed is
enough, but this should be in-
creased to 2sq.-in. a square-
foot in cooler localities.
The benzol is exposed in
tins from 5 p.m. to 7 a.m. with
the gas-tight covers in position.
Any benzol remaining in the
tins in the morning can be kept
for further use. In North
Queensland, about of
benzol is required n'ghtly for
each 100 sq.-ft. of seedbed.
The treatment should be
started 10 days to 14 days after
young plants appear and con-
tinued until they are planted
out into the field.
Covers should be taken off
the seedbeds each day, in order
to harden-off the seedlings, but
they should not be left un-
covered long enough to en-
danger young plants from
attack by the leaf-miner or
stem-borer.
In warm conditions treat-
ment every second or third
night is enough to protect
plants from blue-mould infec-
tion. Nothing can be done to
protect them once they have
been transplanted, but the risk
will be greatly reduced if all
old plants are pulled out and
burnt as soon as the leaf has
been harvested, and if all stray
plants that appear are also up-
rooted and destroyed.
A new strain of tobacco, a
sport of Mammoth Delcrest,
bred in North Queensland, has
also been developed at Ingle-
wood. The production of this
selection—l ton of cured leaf


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight —Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia:-1 year —£1 18s. 6d.; \ year —19s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
an acre —is almost double that
of common strains.
Loxton Drainage
“A.C.T.”: Loxton (S.A.) war-
service irrigation - settlement,
which produces fruit worth £l|-
million a year, is having drain-
age trouble, due to a rising
water-table similar to that
already experienced and
tackled at Mildura and Berri.
A South Australian Parlia-
mentary committee recom-
mended a scheme to drain
6300 acres, which represents
practically all the planted land
in the 250 holdings in the
Loxton settlement, and Primary
Industry Minister Charles Ader-
mann has now approved the
estimate of £1,300,000 for the
scheme.
Drainage will be pumped
through pipes laid across the
bed of the Murray to an
evaporation basin protected by
levee-banks on the western
side of the river. The levees
will prevent drainage con-
taminating the Murray except
in times of highest flood, when,
the Minister says hopefully,
“the volume of water will
nullify any effect.”
Scaly-leg
“Ranger” : Scaly-leg in poul-
try is seldom fatal, but it
results in decreased egg-produc-
tion.
It is caused by a microscopic
mite tunnelling into the surface
layers of the skin underneath
the scales. Damage to the
skin brings an exudation of
serum, which solidifies into
grey, powdery crusts and
scabs, forcing the leg-scales
apart. Irritation comes on at
night or in warm weather when
the mites are most active. Older
birds seem most susceptible.
Badly affected fowls lose con-
dition and frequently suffer
from lameness.
Scaly-leg being widespread,
all poultry should be inspected
before being introduced into
the flock, and, as unhygienic
conditions and overcrowding
help in spreading the mite,
affected fowls should be
isolated. If only a few have
the disease, soak their shanks
in warm soapy water and scrub
them with a fairly stiff tooth-
brush.
For treatment, use a com-
position of one tablespoon of
phenol disinfectant to one pint
of water, or equal parts of
kerosene and sump-oil. Kero-
sene emulsion —11b. soft-soap,
lgal. kerosene and 2|gals.
water —will also do the job.
Fowls may be driven through
the liquid down a race of wire-
netting or other material.
Treatment should be repeated
every three or four days until
the infections are cleared-up.
When infection is noticed,
yards should be thoroughly
cleaned, litter burned and fowl-
houses sprayed with 2 per cent,
creosol disinfectant. if pos-
sible, yards should be spelled
for eight weeks, so that mites
in fallen scales will die.
Ploughing
Championships
“N.A.8.”: Ploughing cham-
pionships, a favorite event 50
years or more ago, are coming
back, and a 30-year-old dairy-
farmer, Ken Henry, of Num-
baa, Nowra (N.S.W.), lately
won the Atlantic Silver Plough
and the national ploughing
championship at Orange
(N.S.W.).
In a field of 18 the winner
scored 275 - points and ended
15 points ahead of Victorian
champion L. J. Clark, of Mono-
meith. Third was R. Price, of
Glencoe (N.S.W.), and fourth
J. Nicoll, of Whorouly (Vic.).
Henry, who works a 900-acre
property in partnership with
his father, will be Australian
representative in the world
ploughing championships for
the Esso Golden Plough in
Rome next October. It will be
his second overseas trip; some
years ago he represented the
Australian Junior Farmers’
movement in a dairy-breeds
judging-contest at York (Eng.).
Export Chickens
“North”: Export of day-old
chickens to New Guinea has
developed into big business for
Brisbane hatcheries.
The chicks are packed into
well-ventilated cartons, each
with two circular compart-
ments, so that there are no
corners where they could be
smothered by others crowding
over them during the journey.
Each compartment holds 25
chicks, which are examined
and passed fit for export by
an Agricultural Department
veterinary - officer. They are
flown to Port Moresby in six
hours, at a cost of about £2 10s.
a hundred.
Last year 60,000 were
shipped to destinations all over
New Guinea, and from present
appearances the number will be
exceeded this season.
Although New Guinea has
some large poultryfarms—one
in Port Moresby runs 10,000
birds —there are no hatcheries,
as it’s too hot and humid to
incubate chicks on the coast.
Crosscuts
“N.A.8.”: Eugowra (N.S.W.)
Junior Farmers’ Club recently
won the £5OO Ampol award for
the best J.F. club in the State.
And how will members spend
the dough? On a bus-tour for
43 during the September holi-
days, to inspect agricultural
projects in northern N>S.W.
and southern Queensland.
“Yeno Ham.”: Members of
Fijian Junior Farmers’ Clubs
will soon be competing for a
shield given by their N.S.W.
counterparts, the Junior
Farmers’ Club Council having
voted 10-guineas for a shield
made of N.S.W. timbers and
carrying a waratah-and-wattle
badge. The shield is being
presented as “a gesture of good-
will to a neighbor.’” 'Fijian
clubs conduct field-days, com-
petitions and shows similar to
those in Australia.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(9/6/’6O)
Apart from moderate falls on the Darling Downs,
Queensland is likely to have only light rain during July. In
August there should be good rains in the coastal districts,
the central highlands and Darling Downs, and about the
Maranoa and Warrego.
N.S.W. can expect only light or moderate patchy rains
during July, although there may be better falls on the
Southern Tablelands. Similar conditions should follow, with
general rains in November.
Victoria should have good rains during July, with best
falls in the east-central and north-eastern districts, along the
west coast and in East Gippsland. There should be moderate
rain in August and general falls in September.
In South Australia there should be good rains during
July, with moderate falls extending into the interior. These
conditions should continue in the agricultural areas until
September, though falls are likely to be poor in the interior
for the rest of the year.
Good rains—mainly below normal—are likely in the
agricultural areas of Western Australia during July, with
better falls along the s.-w.-central coast. There should be
light to moderate rain about the Gascoyne, but poor falls
elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


Divorce Notices
IN the supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES.—In Divorce.
y TO LESLIE ARTHUR HITCHIN late
of The Naval Depot, Balmoral near
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that LENA
SARAH HITCHIN hag filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4243 of 1959 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Old Mint Building Mac-
quarie Street Sydney by the 20th day
of August 1960 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. JOHN T. NORRIS & CO.,
Solicitors, of 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
TO VERA EFFIE FISHER formerly of
Kalgoorlie W.A. (present address un-
known).—TAKE NOTICE that your
husband JOHN FISHER has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for Divorce
on the ground of separation for a con-
tinuous period of not less than five years
immediately preceding the commence-
ment of the action there being no
reasonable likelihood of cohabitation
being resumed If you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your de-
fence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within forty
clear days from the date of this publi-
cation In default of your so doing
the case may proceed and the Court
will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.—
DATED this 13th day of June, 1960. —
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of words of two old songs,
“Island of Dreams” and “Mona.
—6990.
An exhibition of convict-material
is being arranged in conjunction
with the publication by the Aus-
tralasian Book Society, of 96
Phillip Street, Sydney, and 17
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, of a
collection of Price Warung’s stories
entitled Convict Days. The society
appeals to Bulletin readers who
are in possession of any items of
interest such as. leg-irons, manacles,
tools, books, manuscripts, photo-
graphs or prints to make them
available for a short period to
this society. They will be care-
fully catalogued and returned to
their owners at the conclusion of
the exhibition.—699l.
Information Sought
From what does the Devonian
geological period derive its name 3
The Devonian System was named
by two geologists, Murchison and
Sedgwick, in 1840, and first applied
to rocks outcropping in Devon-
shire (Eng.) and elsewhere. Fossil-
corals found in the rocks in
Devonshire by local collectors were
submitted to palseontologists, who
determined them to be intermediate
in structure between the Silurian
and Carboniferous periods. The
beds containing them, and others
elsewhere, thus came to be referred
to as Devonian.
* * * *
How is tripe processed at an
abattoirs ?
The tripes are turned inside-out
and placed in a scalding-machine,
rather similar to a washing-machine
used in laundries, which has an
interior perforated rotating portion
that moves in water at about
150 deg. F. This movement in
the water removes the mucus or
interior fining of the stomachs
and cleans the tripes. The tripes
are then removed to cooking-vats
and cooked at boiling temperature
for from to 2 hours, according
to the animals from which they
came. After cooking they are
placed in chilled water, the fat
is picked off, and the tripes are
scrubbed and again placed in
chilled water ready for delivery.
* * * *
In the game of cribbage I have
always understood that the player
playing the last card scores one
“I’ve had these fish-gazers — let's STARE THIS
ONE OUT!”
for “last,” but that if that card
makes 15 or 31 the “one for last”
is not taken. Recently I saw it
claimed that in such circumstances
three are scored. Is this latter
correct ?
No. Your own scoring is right.
If the last card brings the count
to either 15 or 31 the player takes
two points; otherwise he takes
“one for last.”
• * * *
What is the origin of “The
Brides of Enderby,” referred to in
Jean Ingelow’s poem, “A High
Tide on the Coast of Lincolnshire”3
Is it based on legend or folk-
lore ?
The following extract is from
Lincolnshire Notes and Queries,
Vol. 1, pp. 152-53:
“The Brides of Mavis Enderby.
As a native of Mavis Enderby 1
take great interest in the above,
and have, with some difficulty,
found out all there is to be known.
It is as follows: There is no
legend about the Brides of Mavis
Enderby and no old chime. Miss
Ingelow herself has acknowledged
that the idea was her own, the
name being chosen for convenience
sake only. Several years ago,
however, when some new chimes
were being put-up in Boston
Church, an enthusiastic admirer of
Miss Ingelow’s poem suggested that
one should be called ‘The Brides
of Mavis Enderby.’ ‘Claribel’
(Mrs. Barnard), who was then
living at Louth, was asked to com-
pose the chime, but she wisely
refused; the request was then
transferred to a local music-master,
who consented. The tune was
composed and took its place among
the chimes, but was soon dis-
continued, being found unsuitable
in style.”
Brief Answers
K.McK.: Tambaroora (the name
derives from a N.S.W. town) is
a colloquialism and refers to the
game of drawing names or numbers
out of a hat.... A.A.D.: The
secretary, New England New State
Movement, Box 18, P. 0., Armi-
dale, N.S.W., will furnish you with
such material... .J.M.C.: The
lines are from Adam Lindsay
Gordon’s poem, “The Wearie
Wayfarer”... .S.F.F.: The couplet
correctly reads:
Nature and nature’s laws lay hid in
endless night.
God said “Let Newton be!” —and all
was light.
The couplet commencing “As Time
went on” is correctly attributed
to J. C. Squire. .. .8.M.F.: It is
possible to make a furniture-
finish from certain types of gum-
copal by dissolving the gum in a
solvent such as methylated-spirit,
removing dirt and foreign matter
in the gum by filtration, and, add-
ing a plasticiser to prevent the
finish from becoming brittle.
Since, however, there are numerous
pitfalls for the inexperienced in
the manufacture of furniture-
finishes, it would be advisable to
buy it from a reputable manu-
facturer. .. .H.H.L.: No. Jack
Moses wrote the poem “Nine Miles
from Gundagai” and included it
in his book, Beyond the City
Gates. An earlier poem, “Five
Miles From Gundagai,” was
written by a now-unknown writer
who signed his work “Matchbox.”
... .W.S.D.: The Mexican pyramids
are situated near Mexico City and
are b'uilt mostly with river-boulders.
The Pyramid of the Sun (Tonatiuh)
is 761 ft. from north to south,
725 ft. from east to west, and rises
to a height of 216 ft. The Pyramid
of the Moon (Mextli) is 426 ft.
by 511 ft., height 180 ft M.N.:
A Dorcas Society is a ladies’
association, connected with a
church, for the purpose of making
clothes for the poor. It was called
after the Dorcas mentioned in
Acts ix, 36.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
alt MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.W.R.P.: Your gumtree has
possibilities but needs lopping.
For instance, what’s the profit of
such lines as:
And as oft-times I think of it again
Waves of nostalgic memory wing me
back .... I
J.W.B.: Editorial summit con-
ference decided to send “Mr.
Krushchev” home... .H.J.G.: Not
“flaw” with “door,” please....
L.FI.: Well may you describe it
as “a very sad tale”... .J.S.P.:
Flard to say anything new on
those themes, though there’s a nice
rhythm in the crow-poem....
H.M.: Thank you for the blow-
flies 1.L.C.: You’d do much
better to describe that bushfire in
prose-—then you wouldn't need to
go on about “berserk monsters,”
etc T.H.Y.: Kippers?....
N.R.: The poet might like to see it.
Why not send it to her, c/o The
Bulletin? .. . .8.N.E.: You have an
alert eye for the modern world.
But the writing is too jerky, goes
on too long and rarely comes to
a point... .B.McK.: Well, if
“Barmy Butchers” is your first
attempt we won’t have a chop
at it....R.K.: You’ll feel better
now you’ve got that fearful double
pun off your chest....R.C.: Sug-
gest you write your reminiscences
in prose; you’ve obviously got a
story worth telling, and one much
too long and detailed for verse.
....Fin: The river’s not too bad.
. ...W.D.: You speak for
thousands:—
CITY HOLIDAY
I think I’d be afraid to walk down Bond
St., or Fifth Avenue—
For crossing Pitt St., or the Cross, or
teetering down Castlereagh
Is perilous, and fraught with fear un-
dreamed.
The sneer, the snarl, of traffic hurtling
through
Each crowded thoroughfare ; the beep
and bray
Of countless horns, the clash of gears,
all seemed
Combined to leave me, trembling, on
the brink
Of sheer disaster —foundering, in the
crush
Of stoic crowds, indifferent to the fate
Of one poor country mouse. I used to
think
How foolish cattle were, jammed in the
rush
To sweeter, pastures, through the pad-
dock gate—
No more! Now I have seen a heed-
less human herd
In frenzied motion, pitiless, beserk!
I think I’d be afraid to walk down
Bond St., or Fifth Avenue,
For crossing Pitt St., or the Cross, is
murd —
er! Something I would much prefer to
shirk !—-
I'm heading homewards, to the bush —
if it’s the same to you !


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.—In Divorce.
TO GEOFFREY THOMAS BUTTRESS
GROVE late of 486 Church Street Parra-
matta in the State of New South Wales
and of Love joy Street Camp Hill Bris-
bane in the State of Queensland. —TAKE
NOTICE that GLORIA PHILOMENA
GROVE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2343 of 1959 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 20th August 1900 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from K. M. SLATTERY, LANGE
& COMPANY, Solicitors, of 84 Pht
Street, Sydney. —C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
THE HOLLIDAYS
“W ell , what do you know! His first attempt and he's trying trick stuff!"
New Recordings
Opera Snippets, etc.
Philips, in a new 7in. mono,
series of excerpts from the
more popular operas, have
kicked-off with two of Puc-
cini’s: La Boheme Highlights
(402 104 NE) and Tosca High-
lights (402 105 NE), each disk
carrying four numbers.
The “Boheme” has Mimi’s
opening aria, “My Name Is
Mimi”; the love-duet which
closes Act 1 ; M u s e 11 a’s
“Waitz” ; and the Act 3 duet
between Mimi and Marcello.
A good selection, which could
have been improved by sub-
stituting for the comparatively
unimportant final duet
Rodolfo’s big aria “Your Tiny
Hand.” Antonietta Stella, who
puts warm feeling into her
quality soprano, is the Mimi;
Gianni Poggi, a typical Italian
bel canto tenor, is Rodolfo ;
and Bruna Rizzoli gives plenty
of life and lilt to the Musetta
song. The concerted singing is
first-rate.
The same pair have the lead-
ing roles in “Tosca,” with
Pozzi putting his virile voice
into “Strange Harmony of
Contrasts” and the final act
aria “The Stars Are Brightly
Shining,” and Signorina Stella
doing full justice to the juicy
“Love and Art,” and blending
nicely with the tenor in the
church-scene duet. Wisely,
Scarpia is dropped from the
proceedings.
H.M.V. gets off the beaten
track by committing Saint-
Saens’s Piano Concerto No. 4
to wax. Here is a work that
should be better known. Re-
plete with charming themes,
with felicitous writing for the
keyboard and brilliant orches-
tral tone-coloring and rich har-
monies, it is played with great
elan by Grant Johannesen
with the Philharmonia Orches-
tra under Georges Tzipine, the
conductor now touring Ausr
tralia. It runs with an odd
stable-mate —Milhaud’s Le Car-
nival d’Aix, a potpourri of 12
pieces from this Frenchman’s
ballet Salade. The salade has
at times an acidulous edge to
it, Milhaud never being able to
resist fully the urge to invest
his compositions with atonality.
Where he does yield to the
temptation to be lyrical, how-
ever, the effect is quite attrac-
tive, as in the opening sequence,
and in those parts where the
characters T a r t a g 1 i a and
Rosetta are involved, and in the
delightful Polka.
Coronet has completed the
series of early Beethoven’s
String Quartets (KLC 2717-8) by
releasing the final four of Opus
18, played devotedly by the
Budapest Quartet. Five of the
six are in the major scale and
reflect the happiness that the
master was then enjoying. The
odd one, No. 4 in C Minor —
the key-signature which Beet-
hoven virtually made his own
—seems by comparison to be a
ring-in, for it is mournfully
reflective almost throughout.
For those who are either start-
ing-out to appreciate this purest
form o£ music, or who are
collectors of Beethoven, this
one is a must.
❖ ♦♦♦ ***
Dance Music, Near and Far
First the near; specifically,
Cootamundra (N.S.W.), which,
besides being the birthplace of
Don Bradman, also produced
the Cootamundra Jazz Band, a
six-man team which in the past
eight years has catered for
rhythm-hungry feet in dozens
of N.S.W. country towns. For
Columbia they’ve recorded
Country Barn Dance (OSX
7620), which aims to capture
the spirit of an outback non-
stop hop. It succeeds pretty
well, too, with a bewildering
list of popular numbers going
back to 1 World War I and
beyond, thence down the years
to “The Pub With No Beer.”
Would be better, though, if
they’d been content to let the
tunes stand on their own feet
instead of interspersing them
with canned applause and “at-
mosphere.”
Tommy Kinsman and his
orchestra avoid that mistake
with their offering Fifty-fifty
Dance Programme (BL 680915,
on Philips Hi-fi Mono.), a lively
mixture of quicksteps, foxtrots,
Paul Joneses and medleys
which, like the Coota. collec-
tion, cover about half-a-cen-
tury of dance favorites. In
fact, name any hit-of-the-
season since 1910 and the
chances are it’ll be on this
disk. But you’ve no sooner
recognised it than the band has
blown it over its shoulder and
is giving the next item the
works.
H.M.V.’s latest dance-hall
disk is The Dixie Rebels Strike
Back (OELP 5035). The Rebels
(led by Jeb Dooley) aren’t
rebelling against Dixie; they
claim they’re striking back at
“the diluters and debasers” of
Dixieland music and giving it
back its ragtime-studded two-
beat purity. Programme con-
sists of a dozen Dixie classics,
including “Basin Street Blues,”
“Fidgety Feet,” “When the
Saints Go Marching In” and
“South Rampart Street
Parade.” Present reviewer
can't say with authority if Jeb
is right when he claims that
his band presents “the undeni-
able, unquenchable, laughing,
singing, strutting sound of
Dixieland” but is in-
clined to think he may be.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Smashed cars piled-up in Martin Place,
and a poverty-stricken hut in Hyde Park,
brought grim reminders to Sydney people
this week of their responsibilities towards
others. During the week-end an Opera-
tion Door-knock for the cause of the
World Refugees brought in £85,000 and
this is expected to reach £lOO,OOO within a
couple of days. It is to be hoped that
the cause of road-safety meets an equally
generous response, though in a different
way.
☆ ☆ ☆
Spinsters Were on the committee of
the Bachelors’ Ball this year, for the
first time since the ball began gathering
shekels for the Torchbearers for Legacy.
(Not that the girls seem to have done
much to increase the numbers, for there
were fewer than 200 dancers at Prince’s
on Friday night). Nonetheless it- was a
gay and decorative ball, as the 200 repre-
sented Sydney’s fashionable youth ;
chivalry being represented by the dear
little Shetland pony in the foyer who was
a prize for someone.
Among those who preferred Sydney
and the ball to the lure of snow-sports
and other out-of-town activities were
Sally Spurgeon, Virginia Hyne, Celia
Winter-Irving, with Art Galleryman
Terry Clune, Dick Keep (whose reports
on evening-dress for men in London are
interesting: “They think nothing of wear-
ing brocaded slippers,” for instance), and
Leslie Walford, who is pretty busy these
days with the “Let’s All Go Down the
Strand” revue.
☆ ☆ ☆
Then there was the brilliant (repeat
brilliant) 2 Division Officers’ Ball at the
Australia on the same night. It seemed
a very gay occasion to be such a sad one,
the function being a farewell to all that,
as 2 Division will be no more when the
reorganisers of the Army have had
their way.
Though there were some lovely dresses
worn at this ball, its brilliance was mostly
due to the uniforms of the men. They
were gleaming in red and gold and
buckled shoon, Black Watch tartans and
scarlet weskits—-though not all at once,
of course. The official party was ushered-
in with a fanfare of trumpets and a
roll of drums, and the Ball opened with
the “Blue Danube” waltz. It was quite
like gay Vienna-before-the-wars (per-
haps).
The V.I.P.s who composed the dazzl-
ing official party included the G.O.C.
Eastern Command, Lieut.-General H. G.
Edgar, Major-General and Mrs. Ivan
Dougherty, Major-General and Mrs.
Denzil Macarthur Onslow, Major-
General and Mrs. J. R. Stevenson and the
G.O.C. 2 Division, Major-General J. A.
Bishop and Mrs. Bishop.
There were enough attractions at the
Nunyara Committee’s 4th Boomerang
Ball to make one wish to return next
year, which is probably the idea. “Nun-
yara” me ans “to make well again,” and
was chosen by this committee because it
works for Crj |ed childreI p s Society,
Pickwick, the Boomerang
x A ! , . . °
Bal natura ly featured an abongme-
motif very cleverly done. President A lan
Johnstone welcomed the guests, secretary
Mary Tancred (whose dress was of
ciel-blue si k-linen with pink roses at
centre-back) managed the amusing
pick-a-box, Diana Walters (in floor-
length midnight-blue brocade) was
escorted by her fiance Jeff Fletcher, Judy
Aldridge’s dress was dove-grey with pink
spirals of opalescent sequins, and her
escort was Bill Herbert. Celebrating their
10th wedding-anniversary were Professor
Fowler and Mrs. Fowler. Two Mel-
burnians, John McKenzie and Bernie
Clark, flew-up specially for the ball, and
t _ of _ honor John o 'Born had the
leasant task of choosi Lois Anderson
R f th
ceue OI me Bail ’
Gillian Garland is one of the pretty
young things who will take part in the
“one-night-only” revue to be staged by
members of the Black and White Ball
committee on July 1 (in aid of the Royal
Blind Society, of course ). Many well-
known society people are taking part in
the revue, which is called “Let’s All Go
Down the Strand,” and starts at 11.15 p.m.
at the Phillip Street Theatre —a
champagne-party to follow. Gillian will
be seen with Mrs. Eric Pratten, singing a
little number called “Money Will Buy
Everything But a Poor Girl’s Love!”
Her photo is by Ken Prentice.
The Thirteenth Annual Public Meeting
of the War Widows’ Guild went through
its business with the same air of well-
timed efficiency that has characterised it
in the past. President Mrs. L. L. Watkins
was congratulated, so rightly, on the way
she named everyone on the platform
(about 25 of them) without consulting a
note, and the 16 speakers got their
messages across with due economy of
words. The Governor, Sir Eric Wood-
ward, stressed the spirit of self-help that
had built-up the guild, and Federal presi-
dent Mrs. G. A. Vasey warned against
the tendency today to dwell over-much
on the problems of age while forgetting
the plight of young widows with children.
During the afternoon a gold-watch was
presented to Mrs. R. A. Morrisey in
appreciation of her 12 years’ service as
honorary-secretary.
# V V
Sir Garfield Barwick and Lady
Barwick were guests-of-honor at the At
Home given by the Ladies’ Auxiliary
of the Royal Commonwealth Society on
Wednesday. Hostesses for the afternoon
were Mrs. Rupert Scammell and Mrs.
Norman Jenkyn, and among those present
were Lady Berryman, Mrs. Grant
Lindeman (wearing a pretty sparkly hat),
Lady Moxham (with a hat of ocelot to
match her collar), Mrs. A. B. Beckingsale
(in a smoky-blue woollen suit), and Mrs.
E. L. Sinclaire, who had arranged the
profusion of poinsettia, gladioli and
sweet-peas that decorated the rooms so
beautifully.
☆ ☆ ☆
Apparently it is not correct (so says
etiquette authority Emily Post) to refer
to a dance as a ball unless it has two
orchestras playing in tandem. At this
rate Sydney can be said seldom to have
itself a ball, for those where two
orchestras play are few indeed, especially
considering the price of musicians!
Still, one can surely refer to the Lady
Mayoress’s Ball as such. It is to be held
on September 23 at the Town Hall, as
usual. Lady Mayoress Jensen did not
preside at the inaugural meeting last
week as the Lord Mayor had just flown-in
from foreign parts. Mrs. Edna Roper,
M.L.C., who is to be matron-of-honor,
took the chair.
The ball is to be televised this year,
for the first time —a special thrill for the
debutantes. Mrs. C. M. Guiney was
re-elected honorary-secretary at the
meeting, and Mrs. Hope H. Gibson
honorary-treasurer.
☆ ☆ ☆
Art in our city described by
Weaver Hawkins in the Contem-
porary Art Society’s news - sheet of
Margel Hinder’s striking piece in the
entrance of a new insurance building in
Pitt Street, just around from Hunter.
Says Mr. Hawkins: “On a steel base
Mrs. Hinder welded a sheathing of copper
with texture .varying from a kind of
stipple effect to small jagged cavities. It
occupies the area of a strong column of
twisting variegated branches and arms,
suggesting a feeling of soaring upward.
It stands from floor to ceiling in a large
open entry, and can be well seen from
the pavement outside and from across the
street.”


MELBOURNE
Two women of outstanding merit
whose work for the community has been
rewarded, in the Queen’s Birthday
Honors, are Dame Mary Herring and
Dame Merlyn Myer, both created Dame
Commander of the British Empire. Dame
Mary is the wife of Chief Justice Sir
Edmund Herring, and as a doctor is well
known for her welfare-work for women
and babies. The present system of
suburban ante-natal clinics operated by
the Health Department is largely due to
Dame Mary, who was actively concerned
with the establishment of the first ante-
natal clinics, one at Prahran and the other
at South Melbourne. During the war
she was chairman of the Family Welfare
branch of the A.I.F. Women’s Associa-
tion and later became the association’s
president. She is also a member of the
Advisory Council of Child Welfare set-up
by the State Government, chairman of
the Vera Scantlebury Brown Memorial
Trust, chairman of the Toorak College
Council and patron of several organisa-
tions, including the Save the Children
Fund and the Spastic Children’s Society,
which has named a day-nursery in her
honor. Sir Edmund is also Lieut.-
Governor, and Dame Mary will be
hostess at Government House while Sir
Dallas and Lady Brooks are holidaying
overseas.
In 1948 Dame Merlyn Myer was
awarded the 0.8. E. for services to the
Royal Melbourne Hospital and to Red
Cross. Since 1935, when her husband,
the late Sidney Myer, died, she has
occupied his place on the Board of
Management of the Royal Melbourne
Hospital. Dame Merlyn’s long associa-
tion with Red Cross included 10 years on
the executive of the Victorian Division.
She was chairman of the women’s
committee of the Cancer Appeal which
raised a record sum. Cranlana, her lovely
Toorak home, has often been given-over
for functions organised to raise money
for different charities. One of Dame
Merlyn’s great interests was in the build-
ing of the Sidney Myer Music Bowl, and
she is a member of the Bowl Trust. Dame
Merlyn has two sons and two daughters
and 11 grandchildren.
☆ ☆ ☆
The occasional whistle of a train and
the rumble of a passing tram were the
only jarring notes when the Boston Sym-
phony Orchestra gave the second and
final concert at the Olympic Swimming
Stadium. Lieut.-Governor Sir Edmund
Herring, Dame Mary Herring and their
daughter Margaret were the special guests.
Others in the official party included
Acting Prime Minister McEwen and
Mrs. McEwen, U.S. Ambassador W. J.
Sebald, Federal Treasurer Harold Holt,
Minister for State Forests Alec Fraser
and Mrs. Fraser, Lord Mayor Bernard
Evans and the Lady Mayoress, Uni-
versity Chancellor Sir Arthur Dean and
Lady Dean, Vice-Chancellor Sir George
Paton and Lady Paton, Sir John Latham,
U.S. Consul William F. Ryan and Mrs.
Ryan (they entertained some of the
official party at a supper-party at Menzies
after the performance), and Mrs. Arthur
Calwell and her daughter Mary. Cornelia
Otis Skinner, visiting American actress,
was also at the concert. The official party
was welcomed by A.B.C. general-manager
Charles Mdses, and the Victorian
manager* Ewart Chappie and Mrs.
Chappie.
Cornelia Otis Skinner will co-star with
Cyril Ritchard in “The Pleasure of His
Company,” which will open at the
Comedy Theatre on July 2. Miss Skinner,
who collaborated with Samuel Taylor in
writing the play, is one of the leaders of
the American stage. Included in the
books she has written is “Family Circle”
(a series of reminiscences of her early
life), and was co-author of the best seller
“Our Hearts Were Young and Gay.”
Miss Skinner also wrote a solo-show
“Paris ’90." which she performed in
France, and which brought her the honor
of being made an Officier d’Academie by
the French Government. Even on stage
Miss Skinner wears the tiny purple rosette
of this order.
Richard Burgin, associate-conductor of
the Boston Symphony Orchestra, was a
guest at the luncheon arranged by the
English-Speaking Union at the Delphic
in honor of the orchestra. Guests were
welcomed by Mr. Justice Sholl and Mrs.
Sholl. Other members of the orchestra
present included the manager of the
orchestra, Mr. T. D. Perry, and his wife,
Mr. L. Speyer, Mr. G. Humphrey, Mr.
K. Smith, Mr. Roland Tapley and Mr.
L. Stone Street. The Director of the
U.S. Information Service (Mr. Le Van
Roberts), Miss Dorothy Coles, Mr.
Howard King and U.S. Information
Officer, Dr. W. K. Braun, and Mrs.
Braun were in the official party. Among
the 150 guests were Mrs. K. Nisbet, Miss
Beryl Kimber, Elise Steele, Elsa Haas,
Mr. M. D. Solow (Jerusalem), Mrs. Max
Dietrich, Mrs. W. J. Wark, Mr. and Mrs.
William Banks, Iris Williams, Joan
Sutherland Smith, Jean Cameron and
Anne Swallow.
When the Premier officially opened the
Brookes-Gillespie Nurses’ Home of the
Royal Women’s Hospital, both the people
whose names were thus honored were
present. Mrs. Herbert Brookes, a daughter
of Alfred Deakin, has served on the board
of the hospital since 1921 ; Mr. James G.
Gillespie, who joined the board in 1939,
is chairman of the building-committee.
Mrs. Oswald Bowden, president of the
hospital, received guests in the board-
room before the official opening. Among
others at the ceremony and subsequent
afternoon-tea were Mrs. Bolte, Mr.
Oswald Bowden, the Minister for Health
(Mr. Cameron), the Lord and Lady
Mayoress, hospital vice-presidents Mrs.
Arthur Prytz and Mrs. Wilfred Black,
immediate-past-president Miss K. A.
Syme, Mr. Herbert Brookes, Mrs. Leo
Curtis (president of the hospital-
auxiliaries), Mrs. W. J. Kilpatrick, Mrs.
Lytton Stephens, Mrs. E. M. Cornfoot,
Hospital Matron Miss Betty Lawson and
Mrs. K. G. Luke.
Garnet Carroll has announced that
Beryl Grey, the internationally-famous
ballerina, will commence her Australian
tour on July 2. For twenty years Beryl
danced with the Sadler’s Wells Ballet,
leaving that company in 1957 to free-
lance. Almost immediately she was
invited to dance throughout Russia and
South America. Her debut in the U.S.S.R.
was with the Bolshoi Ballet as Odette-
Odille-in “Swan Lake,” the role which
swept her to stardom at the age of
fifteen. Her partner in Australia will be
Bryan Ashbridge, who comes by per-
mission of the General Administrator of
the Royal Opera House, Covent
Garden. There will be only two perfor-
mances in Melbourne, at St. Kilda
Palais, on July 2 and 4. Beryl will appear
in Brisbane at the Festival Hall on July 7
and 9, and in Sydney’s Town Hall on
July 12.
☆ ☆ ☆
Once again the Younger Members'
Group of the English Speaking Union
is making plans for a July Rendezvous
dinner-dance at Ciro’s. Date is July 22,
and proceeds are to be given to the
Travelling Scholarship Fund. This will be
the fourth of these functions, and the
scholarship is worth £2OO. The theme
of the decorations this year will be
American, and there are four ticket
secretaries: Anne Dixon (WY4108), Mrs.
Brian Ely (WL 8267), Valerie Hall
(WL 4667), and Denise Sadlier (WA 3201).
☆ ☆ ☆
The Embers, in Toorak Road, South
Yarra, will be the setting for a cocktail-
dance which is to be held in aid of
World Refugee Year. Mrs. Joseph Pease
is chairman of the organising-committee
and' Mrs. Walter Pisterman vice-chair-
man. Members include Lady Richardson,
Mrs. Leo Curtis, Mrs. John Summons,
Mrs. James Buchanan, Mrs. Michael
Keeble and Mrs. Eric Avery. Tickets are
£2 10s. each, and may be obtained by
writing to .the ticket-secretary, 241
Domain Road, South Yarra. Cheques
should be made payable to the W.R.Y.
Fund.


the preciseness of their affection ver-
bally.” There does not seem to be any
true unreflecting love between them.
Though exclusive in her own atti-
tudes, Miss Astley strikes at small-
town snobbery without mercy and with
an acidly clever pen. She does not see
much beauty around her, but she casts
a cold, clear eye on ugliness and records
it in a modern style, of which she is a
promising student, though not yet a
master. She is capable, too, of a strong
indignant pity which makes a true
figure of pathos of the young school-
girl.
Miss Astley has considerable talent.
Whether it will narrow down to ever-
finer points of acidulous epigram or
broaden to a more deeply sympathetic
appraisal of the human condition, it
will be interesting to see.
Trotsky’s Murderer
The Mind of an Assassin, by Isaac
Don Levine (Weidenfeld and Nicolson),
is more full of meat than most cloak-
and-dagger novels, and more enthral-
ling because it is all true, or as true as
research can make it.
That old bromide of spy-fiction, the
trusted confidant who is working for
the enemy, comes true in Mark
Zborowski, most intimate friend of
Trotsky’s son Leon Sedov in Paris.
Because of him, Stalin knew everything
Trotsky was doing almost before he
did it. Zborowski organised the com-
plete theft of Trotsky’s Paris files and
remained unsuspected; and even after
he had been denounced by Orlov in
New York to Trotsky in Mexico,
Trotsky refused to believe it.
Again, the love-story and other
machinations that led to the successful
murder were too far-fetched for a
novel. The Communists got a New
York girl who was a friend of Sylvia
Ageloff, of Brooklyn, to suggest a trip
to Europe. Sylvia was a friend of the
Trotskys. In Paris, Sylvia was intro-
duced to a Jacques Mornard, a Belgian
of noble family, and became his
mistress. When she found living expen-
sive he got her a job writing articles,
on psychology, which she had studied,
at 3000 francs a month, provided she
didn't visit the office of the buyers or
try to find out where they were being
printed—it was a way of giving her
Soviet finance without her knowing.
Mornard followed her back to New
York a few days after the beginning of
World War II on a Canadian passport
which the NKVD, sloppy on details,
had filled out as “Jacson” instead of
“Jackson.” The couple lived together
in Greenwich village for a while; and
when Sylvia went to Mexico City to
visit the Trotskys, what more natural
than that her lover (she referred to him
as her husband) should go with her?
So, in Mexico, Mornard met David
Alfaro Siqueiros, the artist, who was
at the head of a little Communist group
deputed to organise Trotsky’s demise.
Mornard’s first job was to get into the
Trotsky fort and, with his photographic
memory, come out with details of the
habits of the victim and the disposition
of his guards: which then enabled
Sequeiros and his tommy-gunners,
dressed as Mexican police, to force
their way in. They fired 73 bullets into
Trotsky’s bedroom while Trotsky and
his wife sheltered under the beds, and
another stream of bullets at Trotsky’s
10-year-old grandson, also under the
bed, one of which hit his big toe.
They left incendiary bombs and
enough dynamite to blow the whole
building to bits, and departed with the
young American doorman.
The survival of the Trotskys in such
circumstances seemed so peculiar that
the Mexican police considered the
attack no more than a publicity-stunt;
but when the American guard, Sheldon
Harte, was found buried in a cellar
some' weeks later, the wheels of justice
began to turn. They finally exonerated
Siqueiros because he was an artist, and
his accessories because —the judgment
is too comic and too complicated to
be summarised here.
Meanwhile, the failure of the raid
left it up to Nlornard to get in, kill
Trotsky and get out if he could. By
now the stories he was telling were
beginning to be contradictory. Even
when he was with the Trotskys he was
doing things, which, Mrs. Trotsky saw
later, should have aroused her sus-
picions. Moreover, as the moment
arrived, he was growing ashen and
grey—it is all rather like something by
Joseph Conrad.
The big scene has also something of
the heart-in-the-mouth precision of the
murder that opens Malraux’s “Storm
Over Shanghai”: old Trotsky stripping
his gardening-gloves to go into his
study and read the article Mornard was
trying to sell him; then that typical
contributor sinking his alpinist’s axe
three-inches into Trotsky’s brain; then
that unnerving scene only the greatest
of novelists could have written —the
old man, who should have dropped like
a pole-axed steer, screams; and when
help arrives, tells them not to kill
Mornard but to question him. Bashed
about but still going strong Mornard is
imprisoned. Two psychologists spend
972 hours during six months grilling
him. He is brought into the presence
of his broken-down love, poor Sylvia,
who shrieks from her hospital-bed:
“Kill him! Kill him!”
The tests show him to be a skilled
alpinist, a capable yachtsman, a fine
linguist, a born mechanic; and none of
the embarrassing things psychologists
can discover about anyone can dis-
prove that he is a pretty brilliant man,
an extremely brave man, except that
they don’t believe he’s the man he says
he is,'Jacques Mornard.
It was not until 1953 that official
records from Spain established Morn-
ard’s identity. He was Jaime Ramon
Mercader del Rio Hernandez, a loyalist
(Communist) lieutenant of the Spanish
Civil War. who had been trained in
Moscow for the Trotsky job. His
mother, Caridad Mercader, born in
Santiago, had left her Spanish husband
and become an authority on the love-
life of many leading French Com-
munists. She fought as a soldier in the
Spanish war; and was made much of
in Moscow (under protective custody)
after it. She is now living, a bit de-
pressed, in Paris.
Don Pablo, “Mornard’s” father, still
lives in Barcelona; aged 75, 6ft. tall.
One thing the Mexican psychologists
established to their complete satisfac-
tion was that “Mornard’s” hatred for
his father was his unconscious justifica-
tion for killing the father-image he had
in Trotsky. Whether the Russians’
cleverness extended to selecting
“Mornard” on that ground, or whether
it just fell out that way, is a point on
which Levine, so sure of many things,
can only speculate. And now
“Mornard”-Mercader is back behind
the Iron Curtain, he probably won’t
mention the matter, either.
THE RAINBOW-BIRD
[FROM A SERIES]
Once, in a winter killing as its war,
and settled in the heart as sharp as sleet,
under a trellised rose hook-thorned and
bare %
that twined its whips and flogged the
cruel air,
the rainbow-bird lay fallen at my feet.
Yes, fallen, fallen as the spring’s delight,
that bird that turned too late to find the
spring.
The cold had struck him spinning from
its height,
his cobweb-plumes, his breast too neat
and slight
to beat that wind back, and his twisted
wing.
And I stood looking. All of me was
chilled;
my face was silent as a mask of wood;
and I had thought my very core was
killed.
But he in his soft colors lay more cold
even than my heart. He met me like a
word
1 needed — pity? love?—the rainbow-bird.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
It's here!
the sequej fo
They're a weird mob f
Nmo Culoffa's
I Cop this lot
&
U :
It's hilarious !
On Sale AH Booksellers
Napoleon in Exile
St. Helena Story (Heinemann) is
Dame Mabel Brookes’s contribution to
the mountain of books and articles—
good, bad and indifferent—published
about Napoleon’s exile in St. Helena.
It is based mainly on the reminis-
cences of the author’s great-aunt, Mrs.
Lucia Elizabeth Abell. This lady was
formerly Betsy, daughter of William
Balcombe, sometime East India Com-
pany’s agent in St. Helena. Napoleon
lived for seven weeks in an annexe in
the grounds of the Balcombes’ house,
The Briars, while Longwood was being
made ready, then for three years Bal-
combe was the imperial purveyor—
later he became first Colonial Treasurer
of New South Wales.
Mrs. Abell, then a widow of 42. pro-
duced in 1844 a volume called “Recol-
lections of the Emperor Napoleon
During the First Three Years of His
Captivity in St. Helena,” which told
the tale of what happened a generation
earlier, when she was a girl aged
between 14 and 17.
Without doubt Napoleon, an
unhappy man who had had little
enough family life for many years,
must have quite enjoyed his stay with
the commissary’s family, playing whist
for candies and romping about with the
children. Betsy Balcombe describes
how she once threatened Napoleon with
a sword, and is enthusiastic about his
horsemanship. Andrew Balcombe
(Dame Mabel’s grandfather) was aged
four when Napoleon first came to the
island, and knew Napoleon as a “nice
man” on whose knee he climbed “and
whose fobs and seals he fingered and
played with.” The children all called
him “Boney,” and the ex-Emperor,
patting his ample stomach, politely
asked why.
That is all cosy and interesting. So,
in their own way, are what seem to be
flights of imagination, like Betsy win-
ning “the ladies’ race” —shades of Lucy
Glitters! —or “gravely acknowledging
the salutes of the sentries” at Planta-
tion House. (Was this Fred Kamo’s
Army saluting a commissary's
daughter?) This is all good lady-
novelist stuff and does no one any
harm. It is a pity Dame Mabel did not
allow the matter to rest on that level,
when it could all have been taken with
a grain of salt and smiled away.
But, because the judgments she pro-
duces are those of this romantic and
imaginative teenage girl, the book, if
it is to be taken seriously, is open to
criticism by any student of European
history.
Details are inaccurate. Quoting only
two errors: Nicholls, the orderly-officer,
is described at the top of page 164 as
a captain, but promoted lower down
the same sheet to “colonel”; junior
officers of the Royal Navy are referred
to throughout as “ensigns.” Even the
index is at fault—for instance:
“Josephine, a member of Napoleon’s
domestic staff, 197, 192.” Look up
page 197 and you won’t find any men-
tion of Josephine! It is possible to
agree with the dustjacket that the book
is vivid, but hardly that it is based “on
sound scholarship.”
R. G.
Some Detectives
A Wreath of Water-lilies: Pat
Flower (Ure Smith). On the way back
from an assignment in Paris, the Aus-
tralian Detective - inspector Swinton
stops-over in Marseilles, a*nd is lured
out to a houseful of artists and other
queer customers, where a woman is
drowned in a pool of water-lilies.
This exoticism of scene and people
hardly suits Mrs. Flower’s brilliant and
breathless satirical analysis as well as
did the Australian department-store and
Australian literary-circle settings of her
two previous novels. Detection is at
its best when serious
and apparently respectable
people oppose a seemingly
impenetrable barrier to the
detective; with bohemian
artists and wild-lifers who
seem capable of anything,
nothing is surprising.
Still, within these limita-
tions, the book is well-done
and unusually well-
informed on artists at work
and play.
Gently Dust the Corpse:
S. H. Courtier (Hammond,
Hammond). Set in a hotel
in a terrific dust-storm in
the Victorian mallee. this
Australian detective-novel
has the peculiarly Aus-
tralian theme of the gradual
demise of a syndicate that
won a £lOO,OOO lottery.
Courtier keeps his dust-
storm and his murders mov-
ing well, but not well
enough to justify a London
critic’s claim that he writes
as well as Upfield or more
ingeniously.
The Big Gamble: George
Harmon Coxe (Hammond,
Hammond). A newspaper
pix-editor photographs an
accident by the wayside and
is waylaid by strong-arm
guys anxious to destroy the film be-
cause it shows someone who shouldn’t
have been in the car.
Next, he is driving an anxious young
woman away from the scene of the
crime. She is a night-club singer; she
evades him, and when he meets her
again she tears her dress, calls for help
and says he did it. Then it turns out
that someone has been printing a dead
man’s stories as his own and his widow
has been murdered. Coxe came up in
the same school as Chandler, but not
as far.
Dead Against My Principles:
Kenneth Hopkins (Macdonald). Two
old scholastic fuddyduddies investigate
a murder of an old financier at the
Prioiy with the help of the old
financier’s old sister. Age will tell, but
not very well.
Poles Apart: Richard Pape (Od-
hams). Travel—how he drove a par-
ticular make of British car from Van-
couver to Alaska and back, doing 1000
miles a day; and how he visited Little
America, the penguins and Scott's and
Shackleton’s old base-camps in the
Antarctic. Commercialised, padded,
but lively and readable enough.


Two most useful capacities in long-life
6RG
Home-lighting
BATTERIES
6-VOLT and 2-YOLT THAT NEED
NO HYDROMETER TESTING
In-built gravity balls that indicate the state of
charge of the cells at all times are a feature of
Erg - home-lighting batteries. Attractive, trans-
parent polystyrene container enables you to SEE
the acid level. Double insulation (including glass
wool) minimises shedding, ensuring longer life.
ih
mv
/C
few-
y «SjKjS»
mi
Bien
M
mm
i
im
mmm
Ilf®
ii*
S'
>' i
. ' ERG TYPE <?HLS-13
Capacity: 110 Ampere hours
ERG TYPE 2EPH-27
Capacity: 225 Ampere hours
GUARANTEED 3 YEARS
ERG BATTERIES PTY. LTD.
156 GQULBURN STREET, SYDNEY. MA 6188.
DISTRIBUTED BY:
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - SYDNEY
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - BRISBANE
32 Barry Parade. ’Phone 2-6565.
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty. Ltd. MELBOURNE
200 Latrobe Street. FJ I 155.
Erg Batteries (S.A.) Ltd. - ADELAIDE
13-15 Ackland Street. ’Phone W 4744.
K. R. Bosworth & Co. - - HOBART
43A Bathurst Street. ’Phone 2-4791
J. R. Roe & Company - - DARWIN
Cavenagh Street, ’Phone 761.
Walter Sully & Co. Pty. Ltd. - - - BROKEN HILL
404 Argent Street. ’Phone 2388.
c©
