

The Bulletin
Architect of the New Army—Page n
Wednesday , June 29, 1960
Price !/•
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"What you have to ask yourself is, 'How would Leonardo da Vinci have
handled that theme?'"


BOOKIIUNTEU, Box- 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
ART AND BERENSON
Berenson (Allen and Unwin), by
Sylvia Sprigge, is the biography of the
greatest art-critic of his generation—
the only one whose authority is final
on plastic values. He gave his whole
life to a study of the great masters of
the Renaissance, when painting reached
a perfection that it has never since
attained. To understand its achieve-
ment is to understand that of all other
periods in art, from the Greeks down
to the squalid petering-out of all values
in the post-impressionist movement.
It was Berenson who built-up the
collections by those American million-
aires which have now given America
picked examples of all that is great in
the masters of painting. His intensive
study of the technique of painting made
him the supreme arbiter in all cases of
a disputed identification of a painter
or a painting. He not only knew all
the European public galleries inti-
mately, but also those in private collec-
tions, and his ruthless rejection of
copies, forgeries, wrong-attributions
and dealer’s chicaneries aroused con-
sternation in the owners of works
which had for long been accredited to
veritable old masters. In short, he
could read paint as erudite critics of
literature read disputed script. His
sense for the tactile quality of brush-
work was uncanny. Today all his attri-
butions stand, and are never ques-
tioned.
While the modernist art movements
were in action he refused to comment
on them. They were in a state of flux,
vociferating all sorts of arbitary slogans
and abstractions, and violently reject-
ing all established standards of excel-
lence. It was only in his last years, at
the age of 90, when it was finally
apparent that all its abstract buf-
fooneries, its distortions, its formless-
ness, were going nowhere, and that it
had arrived at an intellectual vacuum,
that he delivered judgment. He saw in
the whole modernist movement but one
facet of the moral disruption which
now exposes the first half of this cen-
tury, with its two World Wars and their
unmentionable brutalities and orgy of
destructiveness, as the darkest age
which has ever been inflicted on this
bedevilled earth. In the art world this
state of cataclysm was reflected by the
degradation of all visual integrity
and a retrogression to the crudest primi-
tivism, which made retrogression itself
a consciously-sought objective. Beren-
son wrote: —
It is only in our own day that for
the first time in history a long-
accepted classical tradition, with all
its invaluable conventions, has been
wantonly, jeeringly, thrown away.
In the figure art it has meant throw-
ing away composition, for which
already Degas had shown a distaste
that in the long run will count against
him. It was accompanied by the
conclusion not based on seeing, on
observing, but on exasperation and
on a preconceived assumption that
the squalid, the violent, the bestial,
the misshapen, in short, that low life
was the only ‘reality’
Deformations in art have always
been. Few have survived. They
easily join the dust-heap in every age.
It is after the First War that de-
formity grows with the despair about
the future, and the contempt for
everything in the social order, in
politics and the arts, which had led
to such a horrible massacre. Com-
promise is always killed by violence,
and even in the revolt in “abstract
art” against the violence of war
there is a new failure to com-
promise.
For many thousands of years art
has been based on ideated sensations,
on a compromise between what one
knows and what one sees, and be-
tween what one sees and what one
can reproduce for others. It there-
fore would seem to correspond to a
continuous need or desire or demand
of human nature, of man who is
matter and spirit, body as well as
mind . . .
So there is but one way out of the
brambly maze in which we are
blindly beating about: follow the
tenuous beam of reason that will lead
us back to the compromise between
“seeing” and “knowing,” between
retinal vision and conceptual looking,
on which rests visual art as an
eternal function of human nature. i
Berenson dismissed Freudianism in
its quest for “complexes” and “inhibi-
tions” in the painters who perpetrated
the splodgings and wilful incompre-
hensibilities of modernist art. In hard
and rational terms he stated his belief
that the visual arts would revive, but
.... only when the artist based his skill
and creation on the nude. That alone
would bring new vision and re-create
true proportion.
Startling as that pronouncement may
seem, it is confirmed by the greatest
episodes of civilisation, the Greek and
the Renaissance. By the perfection of
its sculptures of the nude, male and
female, Greek civilisation reached its
apex. That same perfection was
achieved by the great painters of the
Renaissance.
And why the nude is accepted as
the supreme test of plastic virtuosity is
apparent. It is the most difficult of all
form-imageries in which to achieve high
technical and emotional quality. On
the sculptor it enforces the problem of
defeating staticism in the human figure
by those rhythms and modulations
which return subtly on themselves, so
that when the observer moves about a
statue the illusion of movement in it is
conveyed by the rhythmic flow of its
modulations. To the painter it pre-
sents the infernal problem of striving
to translate living flesh into a replica
of itself in a few crude pigments
extracted from the earth. Any sincere
painter who has striven to capture the
satin sheen and the subtle color-
variations of a lovely feminine body
can only mutter to himself “It can’t be
done.” To the painter who goes to
Nature for his subject-matter it enforces
an equally difficult problem, that of
translating the play of light on all visual
surfaces.
We, who have endured half a cen-
tury of two World Wars and the degra-
dation of all noble values in the arts,
have had just that long to wait for
such an authoritative and imperative
voice as Berenson’s to define the moral
virus in mankind which has gone to
the very core of civilisation and
reduced it to outright barbarism. The
aesthetic appeal of art has least to do
with its prime function, which is to
educate and refine the senses and
enlarge the area of consciousness. Per-
haps it was necessary that mankind
should endure an inferno of violence
and bestiality to enforce on it a per-
ception of what must happen if it
throws up the struggle to create, and
relapses into destructiveness as an end
in itself.
There are no side-issues or evasions
for mankind in the crisis at which it
stands at present. Either it must seek
a return to sanity and clear thinking in
a Renaissance of all the arts, or face
the nemesis of another world war, and
its inevitability of universal cataclysm.
Norman Lindsay.
About Bertolt Brecht
Martin Esslin’s Brecht: A Choice of
Evils (Eyre and Spottiswoode) is the
second full-length study of this much-
debated German dramatist to appear
in English within the past 18 months.
It adds little to John Willett’s excellent
store of facts in “The Theatre of
Bertolt Brecht”; its value lies in its
shrewd interpretation of what is already
known and in the vivid impression it
gives of the workings of Brecht's
personality in his art.
Esslin’s approach is well typified in
his notes on Brecht’s theories of “epic”
theatre —those theories which have
aroused so much interest and confu-
sion. When Brecht adopted Marxism
in reaction against the social and moral
disorder of Germany in the ’twenties
{Continued on page 58)


V
I
: 'A
T 7
INSURANCE
✓
- 7 ■/ /
ZZ
P R O f E II T-fc
rr
AU
,;j
■4 - -
~7
H
*
H
,
A
wm
A
complete Service
FOR THE
MAN on the LAND
high standard of effici-
e n c y their 2 0 0
Branches and 120 years
of Service to the Pas-
toral Industry ensure
that your needs can be
readily filled.
' w
PQ
There is an
Branch within telephone
distance of your home . . . Elders are equipped to handle
all aspects of Business for the man on the land.
ELDER, SMITH & GO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 29, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4194
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
FL K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
BEWARE 1960!
TAP AN is still seething with youth
J and trade-unionism implacably set
against Prime Minister Kishi and
against the American Security Pact (in
unison with the Communists) because
it is a Kishi measure. Any changes in
the past few days, in fact, have been
for the worse.
The objectives of the Socialists
seem to have become confused in the
heat of battle. Where only a few days
ago its leaders were inveighing merely
against the unconstitutional methods of
the Government in its approach to the
Security Pact, now their attitude has
hardened, and in order to destroy their
opponent, Kishi, they are prepared also
to destroy the Security Pact itself and
antagonise the United States.
In their wrath, it seems, having gone
to a point from which they cannot
retreat, they have sealed a United
Front alliance with the Communist
leaders. And these latter have applied
their (as ever) deadly efficient organisa-
tion to the rank-and-file of the unions
who have been placed at their com-
mand by the Socialist alliance.
In addition to the unionists trapped
under the control of the Communist
vanguard leaders in the same way that
Australian unionists, and even the
Labor Government, was trapped in
Australia in 1940-45, there is, of course,
Japanese youth of an age which doesn’t
know what war meant to Japanese life.
These youngsters are mostly in the
universities, or advanced high-schools,
or belong to bodgie mobs ready to
snake-dance on the slightest provoca-
tion —the kind of young vandal well
known in Sydney and Melbourne who
hacks Captain Cook’s cottage, rips-up
bus-seats, mires churches and schools
and ruins lifesaving equipment in a
sort of psychopathic or sadistic fury.
Added to these are a more than
reasonable proportion of long-haired
professors in teeming universities who,
like their Australian congeners, are
always on the side of the exotic enemy,
and talking of the need of “peace,” but
always the backers or tolerators of
Communist activities. These set the
worst kind of example to their charges,
whom they indoctrinate with their own
“academic” viewpoints.
npHE Communists are not jubilant for
nothing about the ignominious
treatment of President Eisenhower by
the Japanese.
They know also that revolutions,
like wars, are never produced by
majorities but by fanatical and uncon-
trollable minorities prepared to use
terrorism ruthlessly.
The Russian revolution of 1917 was
not made by a majority—for that
matter it was not made by the Com-
munists, but these stole the show by
sheer brutal repression of the rest.
They then learned, for future refer-
ence, what has been apparent again
and again—that the average citizen is
all for peace and quiet and is always
ready to give in to whomever cares to
shake the biggest stick at him most
violently and to prove that he will come
to dire harm if he does not knuckle
under.
The lesson has been driven home by
demonstration again and again. In
Czechoslovakia, as in Nazi Germany of
the 19305, leaders who opposed the
regime fell out of windows, were dis-
covered to be spies and traitors, and in
the near future came to a bad end,
either openly before firing-squads or
through the sudden disapproval of
divine Communist providence which
struck them down with heart-disease.
Nasser, Kassem, Makarios, Grivas
and Castro all learned their method
from the Communists. The docile
peoples of the Russian satellites learned
their lessons from the slaughter of
Hungary and Tibet.
Now the lesson seems to be in pro-
cess of enunciation in Japan, and once
more the vanguard Communists are
moving forward powered by a huge
hypnotised mass of which the original
Socialist leaders have agreed to apply
the United Front technique.
The heart of Communist progress in
democratic countries is application of
the United Front to complacent leader-
ships which invariably find their own
purposes twisted to serve the cause of
the world-revolution and the real con-
trol of the rank-and-file transferred
from their own hands into the expert
spellbinding Red machine.
The Mao Plan of 1953, which has
been expounded again and again in
“The Bulletin,” envisaged that “the
defensive and offensive preparations of
the Soviet Union and China must be
completed before 1960”; that when
their next move came the effectiveness
of their peaceful conquest of the world
by internal subversion without provok-
ing the United States to war would
depend on their success or otherwise in
isolating the U.S. from their allies.
AT AO added that “if war can be
averted the success of our peace-
ful penetration of other parts of Asia is
almost assured.”
The phraseology of this jargon means
something other than it says, as is
usual in the Communist double-talk.
“Peaceful penetration” means penetra-
tion through seditious local action,
however violent, to the point at which a
traitor provisional Government asks the
Soviet Union or Peking to send in a
few tank divisions as guests to protect
them from a hostile majority and sup-
press any local opposition that may
develop. In Communist terms the
“penetration” of the Soviet forces into
Hungary in 1956-57 was “peaceful.”
The prophecy of Mao in 1953 was
that by 1960 the “industrial power of
Russia and China would be so de-
veloped” that a “mere show of force”
would bring “peaceful revolution in
Japan,” and that “we must guard
against the possibility of war at this
moment.”
The measures are in operation to
make it impossible for the United
States to interfere in the event of the
United Front minority in Japan decid-
ing to have a “peaceful revolution”
attained in the same way as Cuba and
Irak—by minorities conjuring it (again
Mao’s words) “out of the mouth of the
gun,” the only way in which, he says,
Communism may be bom in new
places.
The reorganisation of Russian com-
mands and of Government on a war-
type basis; the regimentation of the
Chinese in the communes and the little-
advertised call-up of millions of “volun-
teers” there for militia service, ostens-
ibly peaceful, under Army direction;
the behavior of Khrushchev at the
Summit meeting and the moves of the
Chinese to secure jumping-off positions
along the North Indian frontiers
through the ruthless immolation of
Tibet as a nation; the gatherings of
delegates from all the countries of the
Communist bloc in Rumania last week:
all are ominous signs of possible events
to come.
They are the more threatening since
the situation is evidently carefully de-
signed in accord with the Mao Plan
to isolate the United States at a time
when its supreme Government is going
into a condition of flux and because the
happenings in Europe and Asia have
been accompanied by abuse and threats
consistent only with actively aggressive
intent.
The plan, incidentally, is working-
out to timetable in Africa as well as
Asia.


LAND OF RISING SUN


PLAIN ENGLISH
New Guinea
The resolution of the United Nations
Trusteeship Council demanding that
Australia set early and successive targets
for self-government for New Guinea is
typical of that airy-fairy body and of
the way in which it is used by self-
interested parties, supported by busy-
bodies.
The plan for “intermediate successive
dates for economical, social, educational
and political advances towards produc-
ing self-government or independence
came from Russia. The Soviet would
dearly love to have a free hand to Red-ant
a backward territory of Australia, cutting
the defence - line of Seato in half,
isolating the Philippines and the Ryukus
from Australia, and commanding the
approaches to this country from the
United States and Canada by air and
sea from a position on our hat-rim,
while outflanking Indonesia.
The Indian position, which led to Mr.
Nehru’s support, is no doubt dictated
by the fact that Indians are looking
forward, in the event of self-government
being established, to swarming in as they
have done into East Africa and Carib-
bean continental British territories and
turning them into new Fijis, full of
trouble and agitation aimed at giving
them Indianised control.
Everybody may agree that the sooner
New Guinea gets out of trusteeship the
better. Mr. Menzies’s statement on the
subject, carefully worded, is an aspira-
tion which is probably commendable ;
but it is only commendable when it is
read in conjunction with Mr. Hasluck’s
statement about the practicalities- the
week before.
How it is possible to consider turning
a country without a homogeneous race,
divided into hundreds of tribes of
various standards of advancement (but
the most advanced still relatively primi-
tive) into a nation only Moscow could
say. How it is possible to establish a
civil-service in such a country in which,
over most of its area, education is only
in the primary stage and there is no
conception of democracy or civic
morality as it is understood by nations,
it is even more difficult to understand.
Moreover, the first essential of an
independent country is that it shall be
able to support itself at civilised stan-
dards, pay for its systems of education
and hygiene, for its government, defence
and foreign relations.
If it cannot do this, then it is not
independent and it cannot be fully self-
governing. New Guinea certainly is not
within cooee of being in that position.
It is vital in its interests that it shall
never be given the right of self-determina-
tion until it is able to become a nation
in the sense in which other self-governing
countries are nations, with common
agreement among all its tribes, universal
language to enable it to vote, resources
which will give it within reasonable time
a chance to stand on its own feet; also
proper safeguards against being turned
into a satellite of some Soekarno or Mao
who will exploit it to serve his own or
Communism’s ambitions or those of
Indian or other Asiatic migrants.
Mr. Hasluck’s estimate that the New
Guinea natives are the largest single
group of extremely primitive people in
the world, who will not be ready for
self-determination for 30 years, is even
an optimist’s viewpoint, except as it
affects Papua, in which it might come
slightly earlier.
But not only the Papuan and New
Guinea position must be considered. It
would be madness to sacrifice Australia’s
security to the vapid sentimentalism of
the do-gooders of the United Nations
egged-on by the purposeful cunning of
Moscow, which for strategic reasons
wants a base in the position of New
Guinea as much as it wants anything in
the world.
Unity and Bendigo
It becomes increasingly clear as the
Bendigo by-election on July 16 gets
closer that the A.L.P. in Victoria would
prefer to lose the seat rather than to
lose to the industrial-groups in the im-
portant union elections.
Both the Liberals and D.L.P., very
properly, will make the unity' union-
tickets between the A.L.P. and the Com-
munists a major issue of the by-election,
and the Victorian A.L.P. executive can
effectively counter this formidable bar
to election only by a genuine renuncia-
tion of the Reds and their co-operation.
Unfortunately for A.L.P. propaganda
purposes, the election of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation Melbourne branch,
which will be held on July 4, has seen
the publication of another unity-ticket
with A.L.P. and Communist names on it.
The A.L.P. has promised to ask its mem-
bers if they gave permission for their
names to be included on it—a familiar
delaying tactic —but there is no promise
that they will be removed.
The name of a D.L.P. member is
included in the waterside Red ticket. This
is an additional camouflage, and the
D.L.P. man quickly renounced the ticket,
without any necessity for an inquiry.
The two chief protagonists for Bendigo
are good candidates. Noel Beaton, the
youngish ex-football crack and now a
popular sporting-writer, is just about the
best candidate the A.L.P. could have
chosen. He comes from a respected and
local Labor family, but he hardly has
the poltical weight of Percy Clarey who
was that Labor rarity, a politician with
an industrial background, admirable
manners and intellectual leanings.
Henry Snell, the quarrymaster selected
by the Liberals again, is much more ex-
perienced and is in fact serving as mayor
for the third year. At the last election
he won 16,400 primaries compared with
20,800 for Clarey, got 87 per cent, of
the D.L.P. vote and just lost by 266. The
Senate figures for Bendigo suggest a per-
sonal vote for Clarey of about 2000
(perhaps 2500), and Snell is the type of
candidate more likely to attract the
majority of those.
Bishop Fox has returned to the attack
on the A.L.P., and the R.C. Bishop of
Bendigo is reported to be one of his,
rather than one of Dr. Rumble’s, sup-
porters. What effect this may have on
the by-election must remain problemati-
cal. Modern Catholics may well be as
independent of clerical injunctions in the
political sphere as other denominations ;
but the Bishop’s strictures overall must
be damaging to Labor, since they empha-
sise the unity of the Communists and the
A.L.P. in the union sphere.
Mendicants' Week
The Premiers’ and Loan Council meet-
ing in Canberra ran true to what has
become a normal formula, with every
move as much according to rules as if
the participants were playing chess.
In plain fact, it was already settled
by the six-years disbursement formula
established last year what each. State
could expect in uniform taxation, and
the plea for a special grant to help the
States meet the burden of the new wage-
margins was put forward almost pro
forma.
It was quite clear, especially in view of
the feeble resistance of the largest State’s
Government to the rises and the
encouragement of Labor in other States
to their being granted under Liberal-
C.P. Governments, what Mr. Menzies’s
answer would be : “No hope.”
He himself might perhaps have been a
little more sympathetic in the tone of his
refusal, since the Commonwealth Parlia-
mentarians and public servants were the
first to stick their hands into the honey-
pot. However, not having any bankrupt
railways and transport systems on his
hands, v he perhaps does not quite under-
stand the agony of his State colleagues.
Under all the circumstances the
Premiers were probably well satisfied, as
Treasurer Holt suggested, with the agree-
ments reached. The States’ share of uni-
form tax will be about £23.5 'million
more than last year on the basis of the
six-year formula £267.95 million
roughly, of which N.S.W. will have just
over £9l million, or about £7.75 million
more than last year.
Loan-allocations will be more satis-
factory—about £230 million for loan
works and housing, plus borrowing ceil-
ings for semi-government local authority
borrowings of £lO6 millions. This shows
an overall £ 10-million rise in loan allo-
cations and a £6-million rise in the ceiling
for local-authority loans.
The one concession which the Premiers,
led by Heffron, secured from the Prime
Minister was a promise that he was pre-
pared to review the Federal aid given
to hospitals which has lagged on the
basis of real money-value, even though
contributions from Canberra to help
cover hospitalisation costs have risen from
£6.7 million to £2O millions in the past
12 years.
No cautiousness in spending at the
moment can remove the ever-present
problem of loan-filling by Governments
and public authorities in competition with


private borrowers who offer to take loan-
money at 8 p.c., 10 p.c. or more.
As Mr. Holt put it, the increased loan-
allocation will make it more difficult for
the Commonwealth to balance its Budget
and avoid deficit finance next year, and
all present had come out of the meetings
acutely aware of “the problems con-
fronting the Commonwealth in its raising
of adequate loan-money and in checking
inflationary pressures.”
Billy Sheahan's False Teeth
Sydney’s seekers after dental health and
comfort, in imminent danger of being
crushed between the upper plate of dental-
surgeon dentures and the lower one made
and fitted by dental-mechanics, haven’t
found much reassurance in the contribu-
tion to the controversy of Health Minister
Billy Sheahan.
When a deputation from the Australian
Dental Association went to him to protest
against the proposed legislation to permit
dental-mechanics to deal direct with the
public in providing dentures he told them
that he realised that public opinion had
been worked-up over the subject, but that
he was quite sure the Government would
go ahead with the legislation.
Sheahan said that he and other mem-
bers of Cabinet had for many years
strongly opposed the idea of licensing
dental-mechanics, but their views had
been changed after reading the recom-
mendation of the committee which had
gone to Tasmania to report on the work-
ing of the system there.
That report seems to provide rather
weak grounds for Cabinet swinging round
to a viewpoint it had previously “strongly
opposed.” The committee said the Tas-
manian system had not been working
long enough for its effect to be judged ;
it considered that “similar legislation
should not be introduced into N.S.W.”
because “at this stage the disadvantages
of the legislation appear to outweigh
the advantages.”
Having said this, the committee then
listed measures which it thought should
be taken if licensing of dental-mechanics
was not to adversely affect public
interests. Cabinet, including Health
Minister Sheahan, apparently found this
part of the report far more convincing
than the comments on the Tasmanian
system.
But although Health Minister Sheahan
is apparently satisfied that the interests of
the public will be protected by the legis-
lation which will allow dental-mechanics
to fit dentures, he is obviously by no
means satisfied that the dental-mechanics
can do the job as well as qualified den-
tists. He was reported in the “Daily
Telegraph” as saying, “You would never
find me going to a dental-mechanic under
any circumstances. I wouldn’t take the
risk.”
Why, then, is he in favor of exposing
the public to “the risk?”
What's-its-name Park
Ten years ago Marrickville Council
(Sydney), wishing to honor its mayor,
Alderman Cochrane, bestowed his name
on a park. So that posterity should be
left in no doubt which member of the
Cochrane clan the park commemorated
it was officially designated D. V.
Cochrane Park.
Cochrane was a Labor alderman, high
in the favor of his party. Subsequently
he was elected to the N.S.W. Legislative
Council. Later, in the ebb-and-flow of
party troubles, he lost his seat on the
Marrickville Council. Then, last Decem-
ber, he was one of the Labor rebel
M.L.C.’s who disobeyed party orders and
crossed the House to vote against accep-
tance of the Legislative Council Aboli-
tion Bill. With his fellow rebels he was
subsequently expelled from the A.L.P.
None of this mattered much to the
children who played in D. V. Cochrane
Park. It is also most unlikely that it
had anything to do with the recent
decision>of the Labor-controlled Marrick-
ville Council to remove his name from
the park and give it back its original
label—Enmore Park. Labor aldermen
in the execution of their civic duties
wouldn’t be influenced by petty things
like that! And, besides, the alderman
who proposed the motion said he had
received “lots of letters” requesting the
change, and these had become “more
numerous in recent months.”
The alderman said his real reason was
that last year when there was a proposal
to give part of the park to a bowling-club
Cochrane was apparently not sufficiently
interested to express an opinion whether
the move was good or bad. “Because of
this, I think the park should no longer
be named after him.”
Perhaps it might be a good rule for
Marrickville Council in future not to
commemorate its mayor until he’s safe
in his grave. Such a lot can happen in
ten years.
Applied Science
As long ago as 1932 the young Professor
of Metallurgy at Melbourne University,
John Neill Greenwood, took a trip to'
Russia to see what the Soviets were
really up to, and when he returned
asserting that Russia was one of the
few European countries really prepared
for the next Great War, most Austra-
lians felt he was talking through his
academic hat, especially as he pointed
out how difficult it was to reconcile the
fact with the Soviet delegates’ demands
at Geneva for complete disarmament.
Events showed the Professor was
right, or much closer to the truth than
popularly supposed.
Greenwood, now Research Professor
of Metallurgy and not-so-young, last
week was appointed dean of the new
faculty, Applied Science, at Melbourne
University, the first new faculty in 36
years. There is a shortage of science
graduates for industry, and the new
dean forecasts that industrialists in the
future will need to understand more
fully scientific language.
Professor Greenwood graduated with
first-class honors from Manchester
University and, after a D.Sc. in 1922
and engagements with British industrial
firms on research, was appointed Profes-
sor of Metallurgy in Melbourne in 1924.
In 1958 he was awarded the silver-medal,
the highest award of the Australian
Institute of Metallurgy; almost until
then the school he had founded and
maintained was the only school of
metallurgy at university level in
Australia.
Civil Defence
The conference of Commonwealth and
State Ministers on civil defence draws
attention to how little is being done in
this urgent matter.
The Commonwealth provides a meagre
£300,000 for the States, a ridiculous sum
in view of the complicated and inter-
locking organisation which is needed.
It was the existence of such an organi-
sation, even before the days of the
nuclear bomb, that saved a great deal
of London and other cities attacked by
German bombers, as well as thousands
of lives. But the civil defence set-up of
London was elementary compared with
what would be needed in the next war.
In the event of any Australian city
being hit by a nuclear bomb there should
be provision for immediate help from
all quarters for salvage and saving of
life, because any city so attacked will
be beyond helping itself. It will be with-
out water-supply, fuel and to a large
extent shelter, and most of its food sup-
plies would be either destroyed or con-
taminated and its ordinary communica-
tions broken.
Most directors of civil defence, with
a better appreciation of realities and
possibilities, have worked very hard and
most of them retire rather broken-hearted
at the results.
Since the success of the plan depends
almost entirely on volunteers, few com-
munities have even the shadow of a civil-
defence organisation which, to be useful,
must envisage the training or basic
instruction of every individual, so that
all know exactly how to act in emerg-
ency or disaster and what they can do
to help.
Some small centres have built-up
enthusiastic bodies of workers. One of
these is Walcha, in N.S.W., which, under
the enthusiastic tutelage of its director,
Mr. John Campbell, a grazier, has drawn
almost every able-bodied resident and
vehicle into a local scheme ready to make
for the scene of attack or explosion
instantly on receipt of a call.
However, it cannot be expected that,
in the face of the present fatalistic atti-
tude of don’t-care, many would have the
enthusiasm to do what the Walcha resi-
dents have done.
The thing calls for a national cam-
paign by a body with whfth it is vital that
the fighting services should be linked, so
as to ensure co-ordination and prevent
the interference with each other of the
combat and civil defence forces and the
misuse of resources.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
The probate notice in the estate
of a Queensland grazier took me
back 35 years to when the deceased was
known to us as “Porky” at our all-
boarders G.P.S. We envied Porky the
heretic-status which enabled him to absorb
meat-pies on Friday. Still, life wasn’t
always rosy for him ; Bill the Pieman
didn't call on Fridays because heretic
pie-addicts were not a worth-while market.
Porky spent the week finding out who
among the 250 boarders had leave to visit
the city on Friday and could be commis-
sioned to bring back a dozen or so of the
stodgy staves of life. Some of his couriers
shamelessly executed his commission at
blackmarket rates, making such inroads
on his normal d*tiy pie-budget that before
mid-winter ,and Christmas vacations Bill
the Pieman was on Porky’s tail to
collect for pies provided on tick. This
in turn forced Porky to deplete the fare
and generous spending-allowance pro-
vided by his father for the 700-mile
home-journey westward. But, by travell-
ing second-class and without sleepers,
Porky never faced a pie-less journey.—
“Irving.”
* *X* ♦♦♦
“Wanchai”: The Scriptural texts,
admonitions, precepts and lecturettes
outside Nonconformist churches have
never failed to attract me. But 1 have
always thought that they would have
far more force if they could be illustrated
by some symbol or sharp lesson in the
manner practised by a certain world-
wide fraternity. . . Well, the other day I
passed St. Stephen's Presbyterian
Church in Macquarie Street (Sydney) and
there noted: “It matters not how long
you live, but how well.” I was wonder-
ing, with due respect to the cleric res-
ponsible for this, whether or not the
word “well” was ambiguous, when I had
my hat knocked off by a piece of masonry
from high-up on Agriculture House,
under construction.
*:* * ❖
“Bardon”: In Melbourne over the
Queen's Birthday weekend we popped
“ Actually, I never expected this when the Foreign Office said they
Were sending me to the colonies .”
into a tobacconist’s along St. Kilda way.
While giving us our change, the tobacco-
nist observed brightly that it looked like
being a better day and that the glass was
rising (or falling, I forget which). It
was in fact a disagreeable day, freezing
cold, windy, misty ; and it looked like
rain. What the weather lacked on Queens-
land standards was supplied by the
hospitality of the Victorians. But it
was an amazing thing that in one of the
largest stores in Australia the assistants
in two different sections asked for some-
thing smaller as they regretted being
unable to change our £lO-note.
*l* ❖
“Judee”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) City
Library has been adding to its book-
shelves. But it surely didn’t bargain for
such light reading as it got from the
Public Library of N.S.W. the other day:
220 volumes of N.S.W. Parliamentary
Debates dating back to 1879, and 430
volumes of N.S.W. Government Gazettes
reaching back to 1832.
*i* ❖
“Ailsey”: Two weddings on the same
night at St. Andrew’s Church of Eng-
land, Mayfield (N.S.W.), were remark-
able for the fact that the officiating
clergyman, Rev. H. Marshall, could only
be heard in a hoarse whisper—he
had laryngitis. The Archdeacon of New-
castle (Ven. Rev. A. N. Williamson) took
the first part of one service and pro-
nounced the Benediction, and in the sec-
ond ceremony Mr. Marshall’s assistant,
the Rev. P. Ashley-Brown, did likewise.
But Mr. Marshall, in a whisper, per-
formed the actual rites because, as he
said, “whoever makes the declarations
must, my law', take the wedding.”
♦>
“Genius Loci”: Has any family given
names to as many streets as the Phillips
family of Neutral Bay (Sydney)? Gerard
Phillips, who was agent for the Sir
Daniel Cooper estate (most of Neutral
Bay), lived in Kurraba House on the
Point, always then called Kurra-ba. His
family increasing, he built the fine house,
Redlands, on Military Road, with large
gardens, lawns, and a ballroom. As the
north side was laid-out several streets
were named for this family: Gerard
Street for himself ; Ernest Street for his
eldest son ; Winnie Street for his eldest
daughter; on the south side of the
Military Road, Bertha Street for his wife ;
and Claude Avenue for another son.
There may be more, out of a family of
10 or 11, of which I do not know.
KANGAROO’S OFF
“A Sydney restaurant-proprietor was told he
could not sell kangaroo steak unless that was
all he sold.”
The diner said, “I've had enough,
Your chops and steaks are far too tough.
I find l fall between two stools,
Of aged rams and fighting-bulls.
I tell you what it’s coming to:
/ want a bit of kangaroo.”
The waiter said, ‘‘That isn’t right.
Those tender chops you had last'night
Were baby-hippopotamus.
That steak is prime rhinoceros.
There’s only one thing, sir, taboo:
We cannot serve you kangaroo.
“Tonight we have a special on,
Deep-frozen iguanadon —
There’s real game, sir; old as Fateg
It’s almost hopping off the plate —
A consolation-prize for you
Because you can’t have kangaroo.”
The diner said, “No, these are not
Fit dishes for a patriot!”
The waiter said, “I see, sir. Why
Not let me bring you partridge-pie ?
I’ll take my oath it’s rabbit-stew,
As dinki-di as kangaroo!”
But still the diner had his pride ;
He wandered out, and starved and died:
“Not only must my soup be all,
But also steak, marsupial!”
He said, and then his soul went through,
As out-of-bounds as kangaroo.
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


YXfHEN a four - ton semi - trailer
slid off the wet surface of a
highway near Launceston (Tas.) on a
dark evening and struck a hydroelectric
power-line pole, bringing down miles
of wires, the display caused by violent
short-circuiting and arcing gave the city
one of its biggest frights for years. Fire-
balls lit up the whole_ area, and flares
flooding the city were seen up to 30 or
40 miles away. Terrified crowds made
for safety, and telephone-exchanges were
blocked by hysterical folk ringing to ask
whether Russia had dropped a bomb.
Newspaper and radio offices received
hundreds of calls about what was assumed
to be an enemy attack. Spectators des-
cribed the sight as “the whole of the
heavens opening up,” as heavy rumbling
accompanied the electrical fire and a
great ball of blue fire Bft. or so in
diameter raced along the wires. The
trailer-driver was uninjured, but police,
firemen, and hydroelectric workers had
hectic experiences dodging live wires.
Patrons at a drive-in theatre at first
thought they were getting an extra off-
the-screen show until the eerily-chang-
ing light suddenly made things brighter
than day. It all showed how easily an
A-bomb scare may develop.—“Wan-
dana.”
♦£«■
“Sackfair”: Most disconcerting habit
of newspapers is shoving an interesting
little item into a corner ; then, finding
there is no room on the page for the end',
going cold on the whole idea. This sort
of thing, from Sydney’s “Sun,” 6/6/'6O:
PARIS—A new kind of motoring
signal is now being used by many
Paris drivers —a winking blue light at
the rear of the car meaning that the
driver is cruising around looking for
Could it be that he is looking for
the end of the par. to find out what it
is he is looking for?
♦J> ❖ ♦>
“O’Twit”: The number of people
interested in rainfall-gaugings, particu-
larly in unreticulated areas, increased
during the dry year of 1959, and an
excellent opening of the season this year
brought a deluge of criticism for the local
recorder, from people whose cat’s dish
holds so many points or whose roof
leaks when there’s been so-and-so, and
from the man who scratched marks on
his wheel-barrow!
+*♦ -tjf
“Bo”: In an aside in one of his short
stories O. Henry remarked that character
could be most accurately gauged when
two men reached simultaneously for the
one remaining towel in the wash-room of
a Pullman car. It could apply with equal
truth to the habitues of secondhand
bookshops. Browsing over the shelves
during a big release at Angus and Robert-
son’s, I was just about to reach out to
pick up a volume when another hand
got to it at about the same time. Politely
I demurred in his favor, seeing that he’d
beaten me to it by an inch or so, but my
fellow bargain-hunter would have none
of it. Promptly he fished-out a coin
from his pocket, flipped it, slammed
“An afraid that ‘little gem ’ is not for sale—it belongs to
the Postmaster-General."
it on top of his hand and, having covered
it, invited me to name it. I called heads,
whereupon he took a cautious look at it
from under his covering mitt and, pro-
nouncing me the winner, handed it over.
I’ll never know whether I was a dinkum
winner, or whether it was quixotic
chivalry on his part. But if there is such
a thing as a gent, he was one.
❖ ❖ ❖
“N. O’Sirrah”: Fascinating possibilities
in the do-it-yourself world were
promised by a poster for a women's
magazine: “New ways with wrought-
iron. Chunky sweaters,for the kids.”
♦V A a
v V V
“Unique”: Medico father looked in on
TV rock-’n'-roll session while a plump
performer was producing an extraordi-
nary series of contortions and ululations.
“Bloke must be a eunuch,” he muttered.
“What’s a eunuch?” demanded Miss
Eleven Years. “You know,” supplied Miss
Thirteen crushingly, “a beatnik from the
University.”
* ❖ *
“Eureka”: Back in 1930 I had a pain-
less extraction in the Sydney suburb of
Paddington for Is., though I'll admit the
majority of dentists at that time were
charging 2s. 6d. The other day I had
another painless extraction, but the price
this time was 15s. This seemed out of
all proportion to other price-increases.
Comparing the doctor’s fees of 10s. 6d.
in 1930 and £1 to 255. today, the doctor
could raise his fees considerably and still
be below the dentist. Maybe dentists
could argue that painless extractions are
painlesser today than they were in 1930.
❖ +*♦ ♦++
“Harbel”: That W.A. cafe-proprietor
who displayed a sign disparaging the
meals he served (B. 1/ 6 / ’6O) was not
turning virgin ground in the advertising
field. More than 30 years ago a humorist
known as “Old Hughie” Murphy sold
fruit on Waterfall (N.S.W.) railway-sta-
tion to travellers or visitors to the nearby
sanatorium. His business-cry was:
“Rotten fruit! This way for rotten
fruit.” Evidently he was not a believer
in truth in advertising, nor were his cus-
tomers, for purveyors of rotten frciit do
not retire wealthy men —or they didn’t
in those days, anyway.
❖ »>
“Margaret”: Ours is one family that
won’t hear a word against truck-drivers
Years ago, at the end of a long day’s
drive with a car full of tired children, we
struck a holiday-crowd on the Brisbane-
Southport road. Our harassed driver,
finding a large truck whose speed was
about the same as ours, adopted it as
pilot, sticking as close to its tail as pos-
sible. Soon it was apparent that the
truck-driver had also adopted us. If we
became separated he’d look out for a
suitable opportunity, then signal us that
the way was clear to overtake the inter-
vening vehicles. Soon we’d be safely
tucked away behind his tail again, to the
satisfaction of the kids who forgot their
weariness and joined delightedly in the
game. At Southport he pulled up for a


meal, stepped out of his truck and looked
round with irritation to see who was
tooting at him so persistently. We were
the culprits, trying to attract his atten-
tion to wave and call our thanks as we
passed. The driver’s tired face —it was
our one glimpse of it —split in a huge grin
as he returned our salutations. Over the
years, traffic on that road has been
speeded-up by widening and introduction
of stretches of divided highway, but we
never pass that way without one of the
now-much-larger children saying, “Do
“Sure you don't Want to send him somewhere, lady?
you remember that nice truck-driver
who . . . ?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jock”: Why complain about the
setting-up aloft of an empty beer-bottle
(or bottles) to mark the completion of a
building (B. 15/6/’60)? There was one
atop our reconstructed Presbyterian kirk
in a Sydney suburb, and the meenister
thought it quite a good joke, it being a
tradition of builders, so he was told. An
altogether opposite view was taken by
some church members frae the Land
o’ Cakes, but as the building was, legally,
still in the hands of the builder, the
offending vessel was on view for several
days.
* ❖ ❖
“Vingter”: On return from Sunday-
morning Mass, my schoolgirl daughter
burst excitedly in with the joyful advice:
“We had a beatnik priest this morning!
And he was lovely! He talked dif-
ferently.” I admit I was a bit rocked,
despite my knowledge of his Holiness’s
publicised modernism in outlook. But
it seemed that the celebrant merely wore
the beard and sandals prescribed for
members of his Order. And he “talked
differently” in that he used the well-
chosen exhortatory phraseology of the
missionary-specialist.
♦+♦ ***
“Jacko”: The only piece of gold
I received for services rendered was in
payment for taking a telegram from
Gunnedah (N.S.W.) post-office to an
addressee near the local coalmine, Black
Jack. The distance there and back totalled
10 miles and the porterage was a bob a
mile. Payment was made with a half-
sovereign, quite a lift for a temporary
junior telegraph-messenger in 1916.
Determined not to lose the reward on
the journey back I kept the coin firmly
clenched, in my front teeth. My con-
versation with a mate, also on a bicycle,
despite his attempts to make me unclench
with sundry jokes, was limited to nods
and shakes.
❖ ❖ *l*
“A.J.0.”: Those paragraphs about
bowls-insignia remind me of one I
received from the Taxation Depart-
ment Bowling Club, a pair of clasped
hands vigorously squeezing a stone, from
the bottom of which exude a few drops
of blood.
“O’Twit”: With a war-disability that
could, I was told, improve with time, I
consulted the local g.p. a few years after
the war, to be soothed by the comment:
“It’s a ——, isn’t it?” Recently his young
partner prescribed a vafiety of medi-
cines, resorting finally to a painkiller,
though the associated effects necessitated
a further consultation. I now take a
medicine to combat the ill-effects of the
drug which relieves the disability.
“Barra”: Victoria’s mediocre licens-
ing-alteration recalls a licensee of that
State being fined for having a drunken
man on her premises. A periodical, the
drunk was her husband.
“Pat”: Staying overnight at a moun-
tain hotel I was intrigued when the nine
of them arrived about four on a mys-
teriously misty afterffoon, Mum, Dad, and
seven youngsters; the eldest 13. Dad
retired to bed. The kids lined-up seven
chairs before the TV and sat still and
silent until the dinner-bell rang at six.
Mum donned slacks, wind-jacket and
head-scarf and went off on a solitary
exploratory ramble. She came back laden
with pine-cones, autumn-leaves and so on,
just as I used to do when I went to the
mountains as a child. But then, that was
pre-TV.
SCRAP-METTLE
“Petitioner said her husband, who was tight-
mad and never missed a contest at the
Stadium, had tried to give her a hiding, but
when he got the worst of it he left her.
He had never returned.”
Where fights were, he
Would ever be,
Urging the pugs to bash and batter.
With joy he’d roar
At sight of gore ;
Stoush was to him a sovereign matter.
He’d feint and swing,
Uppercut, cling
With them while watching from the
bleachers.
And in these joints
The finer points
He learned from those unwitting
teachers.
He felt the call
To study all
The shots in every bruiser’s locker;
In case her Nibs
Got fresh, his dibs
Expertly he could use to knock her
One from the book —
A classic hook —
Followed by well-timed right to jolt her,
Then slam a paw
Straight at her jaw —
Her chances she’d share with The
Bolter l
He tried it out.
His one fierce clout
Walloped the air. His strife backhanded
Him with a “Bong!”
It was all wrong
In theory, but it really landed.
The subsequent
Proceedings went
Far from the way he had intended.
This truth he’ll mind:
Mugs never find
Where practice starts and theory’s
ended I
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Sir Ragnar Garrett...
Architect of the New Army
By "OBSERVER"
IT seems an interesting
commentary on the manner
in which the nuclear age
has changed the man-in-
the-street’s outlook on how
future wars may be fought
that so little discussion has
been evoked by the drastic
Army reforms scheduled to
come into effect on July 1.
True, the more senior
officers of the C.M.F. —with
good reason to consider them-
selves the custodians of Aus-
tralia's military traditions —•
have tried desperately to retain
the status quo. They offered
to drop one rank, as far as
pay went, if the old order
could be maintained. They
volunteered to run their own
units without regular staff,
with the exception of one
executive officer, and main-
tain stores and vehicles
through local civil contractors.
All to no effect.
Army Minister Cramer
offered what emollients he
could —mostly verbal assur-
ances that if they wished to
“soldier on” there would be
a place in the new Army for
them. The C.M.F. officers
fought their gallant rearguards
before bowing to the inevit-
able. By the mid-May con-
ference of Regular Army and
C.M.F. commanders and
members of the Military
Board the Minister was able
to announce that C.M.F.
officers had “fully endorsed”
the blueprint for the new
Army.
In the most sweeping
reforms to hit the service
since the Kitchener scheme
was introduced in 1911, Aus-
tralia will see the emergence
of a compact Army designed
for quick transportation to
tropical areas affected by this
country’s treaty obligations
under Seato and Anzus to
fight limited “local” wars.
Its pentropic divisions, which
marry the C.M.F. irrevocably
to the A.R.A., allow for quick
expansion in time of war and
an easy taking-up of the slack
in peace-time.
A rchitect of the new Army
is the Chief of the Austra-
lian General Staff, Lt.-General
Sir Alwyn Ragnar Garrett,
K.8.E., C. 8., a professional
soldier who, from a family
with no military background,
rose from cadetship to the
Army’s number-one post.
A Westrafian, he was born
at Northam, a small town
SIR RAGNAR GARRETT
about 60 miles north of
Perth, on February 12, 1900.
His Swedish mother bestowed
upon him the Scandinavian
name “Ragnar,” by which he
has always been known.
When his father, a bank-
official, was moved to Perth,
young Ragnar entered the
Guildford Grammar School.
It is an odd sidelight on these
present developments that it
was a schoolboy’s aversion to
Latin which was to give Aus-
tralia, over 40 years later, the
soldier who was to tailor its
Army to the requirements of
the nuclear age. But that is
what happened.
It may, perhaps, have been
the influence of the First
World War, then current, that
moved the patriotic principal
of Guildford Grammar to
offer his Latin-loathing pupils
the alternative of “Army
classes.” Or it may have been
his punishment. In any case,
given the choice, Ragnar
Garrett preferred the study of
current military affairs to the
less - interesting study of the
Punic Wars in the classical
language.
Finding that this new sub-
ject interested him immensely,
he needed no further induce-
ment to join the School Cadet
Corps. By matriculation he
had attained the rank of
company sergeant-major and
had decided on a military
career.
"Dassing its entrance examina-
tion, he set out, in 1918,
for- the Royal Military Col-
lege, Duntroon, with few
assets outside a determination
to succeed in the Army and
a most pronounced and
inherent ability to get on well
with people.
He was soon to display
qualities of leadership which,
more than academic accom-
plishments (in themselves
always of a high standard),
were to net him excellent marks
when, at the end of the
four-year course, the commis-
sions were issued. In his last
year at Duntroon he acted
as the college’s C.S.M. —which
has always been regarded as
a rank of honor by ibuntroon’s
cadets.
With the completion of the
“war to end all war,” the
future prospects of the young
professional soldiers emerging
from Duntroon did not appear
overbright. At that time there
was no Regular Army in Aus-
tralia, and the subalterns had
the choice of gaining regi-
mental experience, over a
12-month term, with British
regiments either in the U.K.
or India.
Garrett had no hesitation in
choosing India, because it
held more promise of the
active service without which
he considered no soldier would
be complete. He got a post-
ing with the Queen’s Bays (2nd
Dragoon Guards) stationed
at Bangalore, Mysore, thus
making first contact with an
arm of the service with whose
mechanised successor he was
later to be so closely identified.
When the opportunity came
he wangled a posting to a
cavalry escort for a column
proceeding to the relief of the
fort at Chitral.
Setting off from Peshawar,
the column and its escort had
a slow and agonising journey
through the wildly mountain-
ous country of the North-
west Frontier province. A
two-w'ay journey made in 10-
miles-a-day stages, it was
(<Continued on page 34)


POLITICAL POINTS
Customary grouches from the
Premiers at the result of their
annual pilgrimage to Canberra must be
taken this year as having token signi-
ficance only. Loan-money total approved
was up £lO million on last year's figure,
although it was obvious to all that the
additional sum would have to come from
Commonwealth revenue. As to tax-
allocations, there was no case at all for
any further consideration as the new
formula for carving the turkey was
agreed-to unanimously only last year.
On present estimates it will provide
about £23 million more than the total
for 1959-60, which was million.
Several Premiers argued that the 28-
per-cent. increase in margins justified an
extra handout to cover its impact on their
wages-bill, but Menzies pointed out that
the case was before the court when the
new formula was agreed-to ; some
increase had been expected and should
have been allowed for by the States in
their estimates.
The Premiers grumbled, but their final
attitude was more in the nature of “Well,
it was worth trying, anyway.”
• •
Khrushchev has “reaffirmed his belief
in peaceful coexistence” with the West,
and Mao affirmed his in the doctrine that
peace and Communism can only grow
out of a gun-barrel. Then K. called
Eisenhower a “snake” and Mao’s spokes-
man likened him to a “rat running across
the road,” and Khrushchev capped this
by saying that he was “going to make
the imperialists dance like fishes in a
saucepan.” Actually, all this is con-
sistent because when Khrushchev talks
of coexistence with the West he means
coexistence under a Communist regime
after the present way of life has been
blotted-out. Mao says the same thing
in a more direct way.
• •
Almost the only thing the U.K. Labor
leaders seem to think necessary for
deterrent defence, according to their
manifestoes of the past few days, is Mr.
Gaitskell. He hasn’t proved a defence
even against the Conservatives. Outside
him, however, the party says it wants
Red China, which is enjoying a hate-
week against the U.S., as a member of
U.N. and will allow the U.S. a monopoly
of H-bombs, though presumably it is
immoral for the U.K. to have them.
The picture conjured-up by the mani-
festo is that of the curate in the “Bab
Ballads” whom W. S. Gilbert drew with
his leg round his neck behind his left
ear.
Raymond Whittorn, g.-m. of Lindberg-
Foster, a domestic-appliance concern, is
undoubtedly the new M.H.R. for Bala-
clava, the seat vacated by Percy Joske
on his elevation to the Industrial Court.
He has been selected by the Liberals, is a
sound candidate living on the edge of an
electorate in which the Liberal vote is
usually overwhelming.
George Smith, the Labor candidate, is
secretary of the Elsternwick branch of the
A.L.P. and a past-president of the Sheet
Metal Workers’ Union. He contested
Balaclava for Labor in 1955 and has also
had a try for the Elsternwick seat in the
Vic. Assembly.
It is possible the D.L.P. candidate may
make a rather better showing in Bala-
clava than usual. He is Jack Ryan, who
has been a protagonist in the fight against
unity-tickets and against Communist
Jacky Brown, in the A.R.U.
• •
Tlack from Japan, N. S. Wales Mines
Minister Simpson is triumphant in
the discovery that N. S. Wales can sell
lots more coal if the State will equip
its harbors to take big Japanese colliers.
The Japs have been telling him this on
the spot for at least three years, but
apparently the information is easier to
absorb in a luxury suite of an overseas
hotel.
• •
On appeal by the S.A. Railways
Commissioner the Arbitration Commis-
sion ruled that salaried and professional
officers of the S.A. Railways were not
entitled to the full 28-per-cent, marginal
increase granted by Commissioner L. P.
Austin. This was in line with the com-
mission’s judgment on public-service
salaries and in several other recent cases.
Railway authorities in States other than
S.A., while moaning about rising costs,
accepted the Austin judgment and did
not appeal. Was this due to bad legal
advice or was their decision a political
one?
• •
CJoekarno, having returned from his
girl-strewn junketing tour, has sworn-
in his nominated Parliament. Somehow,
despite his supposed dislike of them, the
Communists are stronger in it than in
the old one.
• •
Calwell’s condemnation of intellectuals
(B. 22/6/’6O) suggests that he has for-
gotten what he wrote three years ago
in the Melbourne “Herald”: “The Labor
party, in this country as in England,
owes its philosophy to many thinkers
of the 19th century, but to none more
than the authors of the Fabian Essays
of 1888, whose work is the basis of all
Labor Socialist movements in the
British Commonwealth.”
• •
“Collins Street”: On my recent reckon-
ing, the average age of the Victorian
Legislative Councillor was 53y, a mere
year older than the average Assembly-
man, so the M.L.A.’s can no longer refer
derisively to The Elderly Gentlemen.
There are two new M.L.C.s—for Doutta
Galla and Melbourne provinces— to be
elected ; probably the Liberals won’t
advertise their poor totals in these Labor
strongholds and the A.L.P., which has
already selected a 35-year-old infant for
one, will have only D.L.P. opponents and
should win both. That would make the
Council the younger House.
NOT ON THE ROCKS YET
“I deny it. We’re NOT down to The Rocks. But, confidentially, I wish we’d
been able to get more out of Harold Holt at the Loan Council meeting.”


T\oubts are cast on the Communist
claim that the Chinese mountaineer-
ing team climbed Everest at night with-
out oxygen. The comment of the Indian
climber, Brigadier Singh: “You must
have heard, of course, of African negroes
jumping 10ft. walls when chased by lions.”
• •
N.S.W. Country-party men are discus-
sing the merits of three-cornered contests
for State Assembly seats. In the past
both the C.P. and the Libs, have tried to
keep such contests down to a minimum,
the general argument being that the
rivalry between Lib. and C.P. candidates
swings votes to Labor and that a united
front between the two non-Labor organi-
sations is the best way of winning a
borderline seat.
Advocates of a change base their argu-
ment on the 1959 election. There were
three-cornered contests in only three
electorates and of these two were wrested
from Labor —Dubbo by a Liberal and
Young by a Country-party candidate.
In Mudgee, the third seat, the Labor
majority was considerably reduced.
It is suggested that rival candidates
should be run only in seats held by
Labor —Bathurst, Burrinjuck, Goulburn,
Lismore, Liverpool Plains, Monaro,
Murrumbidgee and Mudgee. A probable
exception would be Oxley, long held by
L. C. Jordan, who switched his allegiance
from the Country-party to the Liberals
a few months ago.
Provided the non-Labor candidates
concentrate on their Labor opponents
and not on each other, it is probable they
would score a higher total primary vote.
Strict agreement on exchange of prefer-
ences is, of course, essential.
• •
Discussing the latest suggestions for
admitting migrants from Asia Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” asks: —■
What is Australia's prospect for making
a better job [than other countries] of
absorbing a small annual flow of Asian
settlers?
It then answers itself with, “That can
only be proved by trial.”
The same sort of argument is some-
times used by youngsters who want to
know whether a detonator will explode if
they hit it with a hammer. Only trouble
is that by the time they find out it’s too
late.
• •
T abor councillors haven’t made a
“*- y success of Fitzroy municipality in
Melbourne, and they’re asking for an
amalgamation with the City Council.
Fitzroy has become one of the dreariest
areas in Melbourne ; even the criminal
element has deserted it for St. Kilda and
other more lively parts.
City councillors say they want more
information before they approve; but
no doubt what they really want is time
to study how many more Labor
councillors will arrive in Swanston Street
if they agree. Before them is the example
not merely of Fitzroy but of Sydney.
R. A. Armstrong, a Babinda cane-
farmer, is the endorsed Country-party
candidate for the Mulgrave by-election
for the Queensland Assembly ; he won
the nomination from a field of seven.
The A.L.P. has nominated Stan Scoines,
who was to have contested the seat at
the general election against the Country-
party member C. F. Wordsworth, who
died shortly before pollifig-day.
• •
Liberal Premiers Bolte, Brand and
Playford have let it be known that they
don’t want a referendum on wider powers
for the Federal Government. Menzies
and Co. don’t seem very keen on it,
either. Although the Federal Parlia-
mentary committee on constitutional
reform was an all-party affair there’s a
feeling that the Government members
allowed their Labor colleagues to out-talk
them, with the result that their recom-
mendations included several things long
desired by Labor and not wanted at all
by the Government parties.
• •
T>oth sides in the Victorian Railways
** dispute are still signalling for public
support. Melbourne newspapers have
published wage-slips showing strings of
names receiving as little as £3O-odd a
fortnight, but Transport Minister Warner
claims that even railway porters earn
more than £24 a week.
He says the pay-slips don’t show deduc-
tions for superannuation, rent on railway
houses, hospital benefits and taxation,
which add up to a fair sum, especially
as a porter, for example, gets £lO a week
superannuation and six, not three,
months’ long-service leave.
• •
Reports from Japan say that pearls
from the Westralian pearl-culture areas
are larger than those produced in Japan
and of superior quality. Following the
initial success in the Kuri Bay area, there’s
talk of new areas being established in the
North-west, on capital subscribed in W.A.
Government licences would confer exclu-
sive rights to plant, cultivate and pro-
pagate pearlshell and pearls in specified
areas.
• •
Queensland Senator Maher wants to
know why the Civil Aviation Department
thinks it good policy to keep aircraft
circling round over airports in foggy
weather for up to an hour or more when
they could in that time have flown to
another airport which was fog-free. His
query is prompted by the fact that the
T.A.A. airliner which crashed at Mackay
had been kept in the vicinity for 80
minutes, more than enough time for it to
have flown to Rockhampton or another
suitable port.
On May 11 Maher complained in the
Senate that on the previous day six air-
craft had been kept circling over Canberra
for up to three hours waiting for the fog
to lift.
The question is one that will be dis-
cussed (and needs discussion) at the
public inquiry into the loss of the Fokker
Friendship.
month T.A.A. and Ansett-A.N.A.
. will take-over the Sydney-New
Guinea run from Qantas, each of the
two providing two flights a week to and
from Port Moresby and Lae. A coin
was tossed to decide which line would
have the honor of flying the inaugural
flight. T.A.A. won and will dispatch its
first plane on July 9. Ansett-A.N.A.’s
first flight will be on July 11. Both lines
will use DC6B’s.
• ' •
Lifting of the ban on inflatable life-
rafts in passenger vessels has been advo-
cated by Australia at the international
conference on the safety of life at sea, and
is likely to be accepted. Shipping and
Transport Minister Opperman says that
all cargo-ships on the Australian register
carry such rafts, in addition to lifeboats
and other safety equipment. The rafts
inflate automatically and float clear if
the ship sinks. They provide weather
protection and carry food and water,
a repair outfit, distress - signal gear,
paddles, fishing-lines, seasickness tablets
and a first-aid outfit.
• •
R. Hawke, a favorite advocate of the
big “militant” unions, told students at
Melbourne University that the Arbitra-
tion Commission had “all the formal
trappings of a Fascist-type State.” And to
think that the Australian Labor Party
claims to be both mother and father of
the arbitration system!
• •
Improvement in output of coal and
increased supplies of oil since 1957 have
resulted in a modification of Britain's
nuclear-power programme. Three years
ago plans envisaged a capacity of
5-6000 megawatts by 1966. Revised plans
call for 5000 megawatts by 1968. Con-
ventional-power costs are still 25 per
cent, below nuclear costs, but a Govern-
ment White Paper estimates that for base-
load purposes nuclear power should be
the cheaper form of generation by 1970.
The modified programme is designed to
“maintain the progress of British nuclear
technology and sustain a nuclear-plant
industry capable of competing success-
fully in overseas business as well as
expanding to meet the higher level of
Britain’s own future nuclear needs.”
• •
Estimated number of terrorists still
operating is placed by the Malayan
Defence Minister at 583, of whom only
90 are on the Malayan side of the
Thailand border. Anti-Communist
emergency regulations will expire at the
end of July, but new legislation is being
passed by the Malayan Parliament to
provide security measures in areas where
the remaining Reds still lurk.
• •
Latest gem of wisdom from Labor's
Deputy-leader Whitlam is that “Aus-
tralia, with Portugal, seems determined to
remain the last of the Colonial powers.”
It would, of course, have been dangerous
for a Labor leader to breathe the letters
U.S.S.R. on such an occasion.


Personal
ITEMS
J. H. (Jack) Kelly, who has an article
on this week’s “Land” page, was for 15
years a member of the Commonwealth
Bureau of Agricultural Economics, but
has lately launched out on his own as
a beef-industry consultant. As his article
demonstrates, he knows the game
thoroughly. For the last 12 years he’s
been making an intensive study of it
in Northern Australia and other main
producing areas. A practical cattleman
as well as a skilled economic investigator
he knows the problems and has some
answers, and his views are widely recog-
nised by Governments and cattlemen
alike. To bring his knowledge up-to-date
he’s at present on a 20,000-mile overland
tour of every cattle region in the North,
and at time of writing should be in the
West Kimberley-Derby area.
• •
At 18 George Kraus left his native
Budapest to further his musical studies
under Alphonse Alberro in Berlin, and
then decided to make music pay for his
seeing the world. He certainly got around
—though he’d have been handicapped
pretty heavily if he had to drag along
the bull-fiddle he now plays in the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. He was fiddling
around Java when the Japs cast-up there,
and he spent the next few years in a
concentration-camp. In 1947 he turned
south, joining Musica Viva before trans-
ferring to Sydney Symphony. As well as
drawing a bow across strings he’s been
assistant-conductor of the Singapore
Symphony Orchestra and has done a
good deal of composing—in 1958 he won
MUSICIAN FROM HUNGARY
first prize in a competition sponsored by
the A.P.R.A. and the A.B.C. with the
Scherzo from his “Sydney Suite,” and he
has just handed to the publishers a score
for the incidental music to “Twelfth
Night,” written for the production which
actor-producer John Alden is presenting
at Sydney Con. in mid-July.
• •
New secretary of the Westralian Civil
Service Association, 34-year-old Bruce
Collier started work in the N.S.W. Main
Roads Department. He joined the staff
of the N.S.W. Civil Service Association
nearly eight years ago and has been its
assistant-secretary these last 18 months.
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: It’s unlikely that Aus-
tralian Cecil R. Fisher, who’s been build-
ing and repairing boats round the South
Pacific for 40 years, had ever envisaged
himself as a Director under the United
Nations. However, that’s his title as
the man in charge of a training-course
instituted by U.N. at the request of the
South Pacific Commission. The course
opens in July on Malaita, in the Solo-
mons, and will cover two years of train-
ing in boat-building, repairs and mainten-
ance.
• •
lan Shannon, managing-director of the
Bureau of Economic and Statistical
Research Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, has been
appointed Australian agent for the Econo-
mist Intelligence Unit. The unit, a sub-
sidiary of London “Economist,” has
correspondents scattered throughout
the world. If businessmen want
market - studies made in Singapore,
Burma, France or any other non-
Communist country, the unit employs
local people under supervision from Lon-
don. This appointment should help Aus-
tralian firms looking at new complicated
export-markets. lan Shannon has sound
qualifications for the job. After growing-
up on the land in South Australia he
moved into economics via agriculture.
At Oxford he studied at the Institute for
Research into Agricultural Economics
(which has Colin Clark as its present
director), and before founding the bureau
in Melbourne he was for a time Senior
Research Fellow in Melbourne Univer-
sity’s commerce faculty.
• •
Arrived from the Belgian Congo hop-
ing to start business in Fremantle, Pierre
Vaessen believes that he and his family
are the first group to migrate from that
Belgian Colony to Westralia. He says
they will be followed by two of his
brothers and by other Belgian settlers,
who cannot leave yet because their assets
are frozen. Vaessen’s choice of West-
ralia as his future home was influenced
by a feature-supplement on Australia in
London “Times.”
General-superintendent of the Texas
American Oil Corporation, Midland,
Texas, and consulting geologist on loan
to Texas Australian Exploration. Ltd.,
Ted B. Lacaff, jnr., owns-up to a whole
32 years, is qualified as B.Sc. (Geology)
at the University of Texas, and has been
GEOLOGIST FROM TEXAS
in the oil-exploration game since he
turned 20. Here pictured, he joined the
Texas Australian Oil Corporation last
year and has meantime been having a
look over their leases. He believes there’s
a likelihood of oil being found here-
abouts, and when he called at The
Bulletin the other day he named the
Murray River Basin around Ivanhoe and
Balranald (N.S.W.) as most promising of
the areas he’s surveyed. But, he warned,
there’s a lot of work to do yet before
we get “the dinkum oil.”
• •
“Jock”: J. A. Ferguson, chairman of
the N.S.W. Milk Board, started life as
a hayseed, but then came to town, and
for many years was prominent in trade-
unionism, as Australian Railways Union
secretary, and finally as president of the
N.S.W. branch of the A.L.P. His elder
son, Donald, who has stuck to the rural
side, graduated from Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College, served for a time as a
stock-officer at Wagga Agricultural Col-
lege, and then went back to Hawkesbury.
Now, specially qualified by that ex-
perience, he has resigned and taken up
a post with Sydney veterinary-medicine
manufacturers,
• •
“J.0.W.”: J. J. (Jerry) Kelly, former
Mayor of Greater Wollongong, was pre-
sented with a cheque by the Illawarra
Leagues Club the other day in apprecia-
tion of his services to the city. Now 63,
he served 37 consecutive years as aider-
man, until defeated at the last election.


Among other things he was the Wollon-
gong R.S.L.’s first president, was Mayor
of Greater Wollongong for six contin-
uous years, chairman of the Homes for
Aged, senior member of Wollongong
Showground Trust and, in yet another
of his all-round interests, has been
judge, starter and identification-
steward of Wollongong Greyhound Rac-
ing Club.
• •
“Ailsey”: Appointment of a special
officer to speed the flow of research-find-
ings between the C.5.1.R.0. and the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture can’t
fail to benefit the man on the land, and
the choice for the job, R. E. Churchward,
has had the right sort of training. He
graduated from Hawkesbury College,
spent nearly four years at Glenfield
Research Station, has done field-research
up North in the Gulf Country, and, after
six years in the forces in War 11, had
14 years of practical experience in pri-
vate practice at Lismore (N.S.W.).
• •
Arrived in Sydney to help Taubmans
Industries with the establishment of their
newly formed national subsidiary, Taub-
mans Cement Compounds Pty., Ltd.,
Lane Knight hails from Cleveland, Ohio,
where he’s vice-president of the Master
Builders Co., Ltd., and g.-m. of the
Master Builders International. A contri-
butor to various technical journals,
Knight is a noted expert in concrete con-
struction, has helped at exhibitions of
materials and techniques in Canada and
elsewhere, and took an active hand in
forming the Specification Writers’ Asso-
ciation.
• •
W. B. Clarke, selected as general-
manager of C.S.R.C:-Dow, Pty., Ltd.,
started off with the C.S.R. in 1930, be-
came factory-manager of C.S.R. Chemi-
cals, Rhodes (Sydney) plant when the
co. was formed in 1952, and for the
past couple of years has been C.S.R.
Chemicals’ technical-manager. He’s been
closely connected with the new co. since
it was launched last year. To assist him,
C. E. C. Nicholls has been appointed
operations-manager, while S. O. Parker
has taken-oVer as factory-manager at
the Lane Cove (Sydney) factory.
• •
“Lai”: Jack Hamilton, assistant-
secretary of the V.F.L. these last four
years, moved to the business side of
the game from being a first-class player.
Now 31, he began with Ivanhoe, but
soon transferred to Collingwood, playing
for them 10 years as well as represent-
ing for Victoria. In 1957 he took on the
job of playing-coach for Frankston, and
last year won their best-and-fairest award.
All the way along they’ve thought extra-
highly of Jack. When he was leaving
them, Collingwood made him a life-
member, spiced with a cheque for £7OO
and the V.F.L. raised that by £350 in
appreciation of his fine service for the
Aussie Rules game generally.
“J.D.” farewells a warrior-priest:
Stories about Father Francis Clune are
as numerous as the people he befriended and
helped; each show a different aspect of his
interests; all dovetail into a pattern ot
humanity and almost limitless sympathy for
erring man.
It was said that to be accepted as his friend
the only qualification was to be an ex-
serviceman, a prisoner who had seen that
after all the law was right, or a person in
distress.
His frailty was deceptive and, though a
weakling as a youth, he was hardy in age.
Oldest of the Passionist Order in Australia,
he survived all his contemporaries who shared
the memory of pioneering days. Until his
years prevented it he swam daily at Coogee
baths. He recovered with surprising swift-
ness from illness—once, having been involved
in a street accident, he was back on the job
before most people realised he had been in
hospital.
His missionary experiences were as countless
as the sermons he preached, but the power
FATHER CLUNE
(Sketched by a friend )
of his voice, w'orn with use and roughened
from the gas he had inhaled in War I, is
illustrated by this anecdote which had its basis
in a Sydney suburb. The mother and -children
of a family were devout Catholics, but Dad
had “outgrown” religion. With the advent ot
the missioners, Dad consented to wait in the
church porch until the sermon was over, and
then accompany hjs family home. Father
Francis climbed into the pulpit and spoke.
Two hours later mother and children waited
in the night until Dad had been to Confession!
His wit was gentle and understanding, but
capable of epitomising the character of those
to whom jt was directed —he named a former
Digger whose thirst was unquenchable “Sahara”
. . . and none enjoyed the joke more than
the old soldier who waited for the salutation.
Though he knew more than most know of
the sins of which man is capable, he was a
supreme optimist when it came to giving a
second chance, he never scolded and his toler-
ance led to the apocryphal story of a penitent
who once confessed that he had committed
murder. Father Francis's only comment was:
“How many times, my son?”
His charity was as wide as want, and though
he vowed himself to life-long poverty his nature
was such that even if he had been born a
millionaire he would have died equally poor.
It was once told that he was approached
for a bite by one of the local down-and-outs
and, although he knew he never had any
money, instinctively felt in the pockets of a
pair of old trousers hanging on a peg. He
found a pound-note and had handed it to
the beggar with the delighted exclamation^
A miracle! \ . . later to discover that he
had gone through the trouser-pockets of a
lellow-missioner. He refused to listen to
tales of how people came to be in need, and
helped them because the only thing that
mattered to him was that they were in want.
Kipling would have written a poem about
rather Francis if he had known him.
• •
Ailsey”: Australian Wire Industries
Pty., Ltd., has established a scholarship
available to the group’s employees and
their sons, in memory of J. K. Mac-
Dougall, who was released from the
A.I.F. in War I to design and install a
wire-mill at Newcastle for the Austral
Nail Company, and subsequently became
general-manager. Later on the Lanca-
shire firm of Rylands Bros, built a wire-
netting plant near the mills, and in 1925
both organisations were merged into
Rylands Bros. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., with
MacDougall as manager. After retire-
ment in 1952 he stayed on as consultant,
in the meantime serving on the boards
of Australian Wire Rope Works, Bulli-
vants (Australia), and Lysaghts.
• •
First market-gardener to be elected
president of the N.S.W. Primary Pro-
ducers’ Council, C. R. (Ray) Tasker
comes from a family that has been
associated with the growing of veges
in and around Sydney for more than
100 years. He is secretary and past-
president of the Australian Vegetable
Growers’ Federation, chairman of the
N.S.W. Vegetable Growers’ Co-operative,
former chairman of the Sydney Markets
Advisory Committee, and for 10 years
has represented the V.G.A. of N.S.W.
on the Primary Producers’ Council.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Epsom. Surrey (Eng.), at 52, Noel Monks,
described b'y London “Sunday Dispatch” as
“one of the greatest reporters of our time.”
Born and schooled in Hobart, he began his
career on the “Mercury,” moved to Melbourne
“Sun News-Pictorial,” and in 1935 worked
his passage to London. He was foreign-
correspondent for English papers in the
Abyssinian war and Spanish civil war, and
during War II was London “Daily Mail”
correspondent in Europe and the Far East.
In Perth, at 78, Ignatius George Boyle,
former M.L.A., country storekeeper and
farmer. He was foundation-president of the
W.A. Wheatgrowers’ Usion, and later presi-
dent of the Australian Wheatgrowers’
Federation.
In Perth, at 57, Dick Buchanan, Superin-
tendent of Personnel and Commonwealth
Activities for the Westralian Education Depart-
ment, A.B.C. commentator and Digger of
War 11, serving as a captain in the 3rd Field
Regiment. .
In Melbourne, at 70, William Slater, M.L.C.
for Doutta Gulla (Vic.) since 1949; he was
first Australian Minister to Moscow (1942-43),
and also held the posts of Victoria's Chief
Secretary, Attorney-General and Minister lor
Prices and Immigration.
At Lidsdale, near Lithgow (N.S.W.), Mrs.
Caroline Spencer, a life-member of the Aus-
tralian Red Cross Society. She went to
Lidsdale as a bride of 15 and lived there
till the end—three years short of the century.
At Geraldton (W.A.), at 85, Frank Green,
four times Mayor. A businessman and
pastoralist, he was a generous contributor to,
charities and welfare-funds.


ABORIGINALITIES
T was sitting on the veranda of
Daly Waters telegraph-station on the
Overland Line, trying to get cool after
finishing my shift. A tribe of aborigines
—bucks, gins, lubras, piccaninnies, and
the inevitable dogs—came along, with
two girls leading an old gin. The head-
man said, “Boss, Minnipa, she blind.”
The policeman was the Protector of
“I know it sounds silly, but my wife's a shocking nag."
Aborigines, so I called him, and he
examined her. One of her eyes was
badly suppurating, and so swollen she
couldn’t see out of it. The other was an
empty socket, she apparently having lost
the eye some years before. The police-
man sat her in a chair, then prepared a
hot bread-poultice, which he put on her
eye. When I said 1 thought it was too
hot he replied that she could stand it.
She certainly could —didn't even flinch.
He bound the eye up, and told the
head-man to bring her back in a few
days. Two days later they returned.
The swelling had gone down, and the
patient could see —but the poultice was
across the other eye. The treatment
having been effective, the trusting soul
had bound the dry hard crust over the
empty socket, in the hope that the white
man’s magic would restore the sight.—
“Elanora.”
* * * *
“Weakstaple”: “Resting” (from wool-
classing) at home between sheds, with
Mum working hard, after the first few
days you find yourself becoming babbler,
houseboy, valet de chambre and gigolo.
Slaving away at a casserole each night
over the hot stove and a little disgruntled
with life, you become very aware of
Mum’s bottle of cooking-rum half-
hidden on the shelf. You do a Milland,
take a nip and replace it with water.
After about 11 nights the rum becomes
a meek brown water. Then there is a
mob of visitors and Mum in the kitchen
outside is doing a gastronomic big-note
job with the pud., a bombe-sur prise thing
dramatically flaring into flames from the
strong spirit poured over it. The only
thing that flared-up was Mum ... I defy
Brig. Spry and all his boys to find our
rum-for-cooking in our lean-to
now.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: One result of the big
marine disturbances following the earth-
quakes in Chile has been the uncovering
of the remains of H.M.S. Buffalo,
wrecked in Mercury Bay (N.Z.) in 1840.
Old teak timbers revealed by the tidal-
wave still look in good shape. She was
the third of the name, the first being a
store-ship used in the American War and
broken-up at Woolwich in 1783. The
second Buffalo, built in 1797, figured
conspicuously in early Australian history,
carrying many notabilities in her time,
including Lieut.-Governor Paterson and
his company to Van Diemen’s
they founded the northern settlement at
Port Dalrymple. Her figurehead, curi-
ously enough, was a wooden kangaroo,
but her successor appropriately carried
THE EVERLASTING WATER
[This myth was related to me by Fred Biggs,
of the Ngeamba tribe, at Lake Cargellico.
Cargellico is a distortion of the Ngeamba
name for the lake, “Kartjelakoo”: “Kartgel”:
a coolamon, “akoo”: he had. The lagoon
which figures in the myth is known to us as
Boomerie Swamp, in Fred Biggs’s country
near Mt-iindee. The theme of the myth is,
of course, that of the Resurrection. This is
a theme which I have encountered, in similar
forms, among various Northern Territory
tribes. —R.R.]
Once all the animals,
the birds, the stars and moon,
were men who lived beside
a reed-fringed deep lagoon.
One day, when all those men
had gone, in twos and threes,
to gather for their food
the gum of the yarran-trees,
the eagle-man, he came
with water-skins, and soon
he filled those skins with all
the water of that lagoon.
He left but slush and mud.
Then, with an eagle’s cry,
the Everlasting-Water
he carried up into the sky.
And when those men returned
from gathering their food,
the turkey, mad with thirst,
rolled in the slush and mud.
Beside that dry lagoon,
those men sat down to cry
and gash their heads and say
if they should live or die.
The brolga and the crow,
the flying-fox and bat,
the emu and kangaroo,
possum and native-cat,
all said, “Now we will die ;
and dead we will remain.”
Only the moon said, “I
will die, but live again.”
Then all those men cried out
with clamor of strange words.
They changed to stars and moon
and animals and birds.
That reed-fringed deep lagoon,
it never could go dry,
until the eagle took
the water up into the sky.
And now, the Rain-Maker,
with rain-stone like a knife,
must let out from those skins
the Water-that-is-Life.
N.S.W.
ROLAND ROBINSON.


*
If A fJsS AM66£.-a?AT£C> Lens
vV
APERTURE - C<3<Njn3£><„.
A Focal - Plane shutter.
U>iTH &PEEPS up TO
//,
lOOOTH Of A SECOND v
. InQuilT light- METEf^
ACTION Of SETTING
A' Shutter- spsep
AuTOMATICAUCy ROTATES THE
UOHEEI Of THE UGHT-METErJ'-
yoo must HAu£ TAK£N SOME
U/c/vp£kful colosz- p/cruxes
U/tTH TU/S . /7
(heix-&L'NO. You see, i
•h ay erst t yet got the hang op
Putting the film into it, >f


the model of a buffalo at her bows. The
Buffalo, now uncovered, was built as the
Hindostan in Calcutta in 1813, and
purchased for the Royal Navy. She had
a prominent part in the settlement of
South Australia in 1836. Later engaged
in voyages to New Zealand, she was on a
trip for a cargo of kauri when she was
lost. S.A. treasures many relics of her,
including two 18-pounder carronades
landed for local defence ifi 1837 and
placed on the sea-front at Glenelg ; there
"I’m getting a bit tired of tunnelling the Snowy Mountains—there must
be a better opening for me somewhere."
is also a fine model of the ship in
Adelaide’s National Gallery, and Buffalo
Reef in Spencer’s Gulf was named after
her.
* * * *
“Sear”: Calm sunny weather and dry
ground at the Ohura radio-beacon, the
transmitter steadily feeding its 2000 watts
of energy to the tall mast out in the
paddock; duty-technician watching the
farmer who owns the ground running out
an electric-fence wire across the field.
Thirty seconds later a startled curse
from the toiler, and the reel of wire is
hastily cast down. A quick check of the
innocent fence-unit by the victim,
and the wire is lifted once more, only
to be cast down to the accompaniment
of a further gasp of astonishment. “Now,
there’s a man who knows a bit about
a resonant length of wire,” grins the
technical type as he takes an earth-peg
and gloves and sallies forth to the aid
of a man who by now has reached a fairly
correct conclusion and is contem-
plating the sale of an apparently redun-
dant electrofencer.
* * * *
“Clyne”: Overheard at the Sydney
Sheep Show. As an attendant opened-up
the fleece of a prize sheep to display the
remarkable depth of wool a woman on-
looker remarked: “You don’t get much
meat for all those guineas, do you!”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: The radio-commentator,
illustrating a point, said: “Put a ferret
in a wombat-hole and sooner or later he
will drive the wombat out.” Well, a ferret
silly enough to enter a wombat-hole
would probably scramble on Jo the
wombat’s back, and then the wombat
would rise on his powerful legs and
crush it against the roof of the burrow.
Wombats have done that even to dogs.
* * * *
“V.J.C.”: “Arthur R.” (B. 25/5/’6O)
is astray in saying that the only thing
salvaged from the Lock Ard, wrecked
near Peterborough (Vic.) in 1880, was
a full-size pottery-peacock. As a boy I
remember old hands saying that nearly
every farmhouse within miles of Peter-
borough had a sewing-machine salvaged
from the wreck, but the good housewives
were careful to keep them out of sight as
Customs officers were seizing anything on
which duty had not been paid. I men-
tioned this some years ago to the late
Robert Helpman, of Fisher’s Creek, near
Cloncurry (N.Q.), and he then showed me
a .44-calibre revolver, nickel-plated and
with a pearl-mounted stock, which also
had come from the Lock Ard wreck.
Possibly it is still somewhere in the Clon-
curry district.
* # * *
“Baksac”: Feel like a boor in correct-
ing a lady, but since nobody else seems
game enough to come forward in the
interests of veracity I must gently suggest
that “Miss M.” is a little astray with her
ornithology—or maybe, geography—in
stating here that the diamond-sparrow is
also known as Java-sparrow. The Java-
spag is a much bigger bird and is, or was,
either pure white or greyish-blue in
plumage (there are rumors that, by skilled
line-breeding, aviculturists have developed
a fawn color, as they did with the zebra-,
or chestnut-eared, finch). But in no respect
does the Java resemble the dyke. I’ve
never seen a Java outside an aviary, and
Cayley does not mention it, either as an
Australian or introduced bird. All things
considered, I think even Dr. Watson
would deduce that the bird is a native of
Java.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: In a “We're asking you”
radio-session a listener’s question on
blackfellow’s - bread brought from a
specialist on abo.-diet to whom it was
referred a cataloguing of such farinaceous
sources as Binghi drew upon. The query
should have gone to a fungus-fancier,
who could have explained it as a mis-
leading name for Polyporus mylittae.
As kids we found it smoothly spherical
and about football size when wind blew
big ringbarked mountain-ashes, roots
and all, deep out of the Red mountain-
soil. Attractively snowy-white, it is
textured like dry tapioca-pudding ; we
persistently and puzzledly chewed its
absolute tastelessness in the hopes of
some clue as to its reputed abo. use. We
also tried it for pencil-erasers, but it goes
rusty soon after air-exposure.
* * * *
W HEN I joined the staff of a
’ * hospital in the Far North the Sister
grinned: “Never lend them any money!
When I was new two Islander nurses
who were twins presented themselves to
me: ‘We have decided to give you the
honor of lending us each live-pounds.’
I shelled-out, and they promised faith-
fully to pay me next payday. They said
they had to pay a debt of their father's.
I haven't seen that money yet. I'm sick
of asking for it. They look so pained.
I’ve written it off as a bad debt.” “But
the nurses? Are they still here?” I asked.
“Off and on —they leave to have a baby
every now and then,” she smiled. “But
don’t they have husbands? Are married
nurses allowed on the staff?” “No, they
don’t have husbands. One has been
pregnant to the same man four times.
He is very keen to marry her. She said:
‘Sister, do you think I would marry
that silly fella? No fear!’ Their mother
looks after their children and draws a
fat endowment; but the girls give in
all their money at home to pay for their
children, and that is why they can’t pay
me.” “Are many of them immoral?”
I asked, and the Sister looked shocked.
“None of them are —they are amoral,”
she explained. “It was their island cus-
tom that a boy mustn’t marry a girl until
she is pregnant to him because they want
children to look after them in their old
age. They still carry out the custom,
and most of the brides in white are
heavily ‘fragrant,’ as they call it. One
of my best nurses told me very seriously :
‘Sister, may I see a doctor? I want to get
married. I try and try to have a baby ;
but nothing happens. If I don’t soon,
then I will never get married.’ ”
“Admirer.”


'T'he station cats, numbering from 12
A to 20, are fed at dusk from a large
dish of bread-and-milk. The call of
“Puss, puss!” is the signal for possums to
come scrambling over the roof or
swaggering around the corner. The more
timorous grab a piece of bread and spring
up the nearby athel-tree. The older hands
push in among the fummies, and puss
and poss often sit up and trade punches
if the shoving becomes too rough.
Visitors are fascinated by the perfor-
mance, as many as seven possums being
present at once, and a torch is necessary
to distinguish between the animals. One
night when the cats had been fed meat,
and no milk was put out, there was a
great scrambling on the gauze outside
the veranda-door. To the possum hang-
ing there I offered apologies and a piece
of bread which was rudely snatched
from my hand accompanied by a look
which plainly said: “What the heck's
happened to the service around here?” —
“Dee Jay.”
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Cocoa exports from
New Guinea, now running at almost
million a year, go to Britain, Japan, Ger-
many and Holland as well as coming to
Australia, and coffee (nearly million)
goes to Britain, Hong Kong, Germany
and Holland, as well as also coming
here. Good percentages of these crops
are being grown in native villages, with
satisfactory returns to all concerned.
* * * *
“Maitri”: When some American
visitors came to dinner they were all
excitement. “We’ve often heard about
your interesting wildlife,” one purred,
“but we never thought to see kangaroos
hopping about suburban streets as near
as this to the city.” Momentarily we
were puzzled, then light dawned. Jo-Jo,
the pet wallaby adopted by neighbors
(her saga was told in The Bulletin
last year), is quite a big girl now. She
has learned how to manipulate the gate
and often roams the district at night. As
they’d got a bit lost trying to find our
house, our guests had sighted Jo-Jo no
fewer than four times. They were so
delighted that we just didn’t have the
heart to tell them the truth, but, as one
is a journalist, I’m beginning to wonder
what kind of yarns are going to break
in U.S. papers.
* * * *
“Heresone”: The origin of the term
“drongo,” lately under debate here, does
seem to be a bit obscure, but the insect
of the name is a new one to me. The
official R.A.A.F. definition was “a large
flightless bird with a peculiar smell” —
originally applied to the chairborne
division ; a gross libel on the bird, the
spangled-drongo of the Queensland rain-
forests. About the size of a butcher-
bird, it is a good flyer, with iridescent
black-green plumage flecked with white.
Its most noticeable features are the
vicious-looking beak, long forked tail
(hence its other monicker, “fishtail”) and
its harsh grating calls. Perhaps the
human application of the name, like the
other avian term “galah,” originally
suggested someone more garrulous than
sensible.
* * * *
“Brolga”: The auctioneer was extolling
the virtues of the gaunt old Ayrshire cow
as she trotted round the saleyard-ring.
“There y’ are, gen’men, a real good cow,
sound in every respect.”. A pause as he
heard murmurs of doubt from the
buyers ; then, to his offsider in the ring,
“All right, Jim—better see how her
mouth is.” Jim dodged the needle-sharp
horns as he grappled with the old girl,
“I find that sitting on this hot rock eases my sciatica.”
managed to prise her jaws apart, then
panted his report, “Her mouth’s all right,
Eric, only she’s got no teeth!”
* * * *
HPhe old Ayrshire has a slapstick
comedian’s flair for attracting
mishaps, so I should have known better
than let her and her overgrown calf
in to clean-up the last green-pick under
the leafless fruit-trees.
In no time she found a home-made
pruning-ladder lying in long grass, and
contrived to get her nose and one of
her high-spread horns between two
rungs. The bumping and crashing soon
brought me to the spot. It should have
been easy enough to extricate her, had
she stood still ; but not Catriona. She
not only refused to be released, but, by
a display of great determination,
managed to get her other horn through
the small opening! The task being
now beyond me, and Catriona grazing
happily enough in her outsize yolk, 1 went
off to await the home-coming of a man
or two.
Soon there were further sounds of
struggle and enthusiastic barking of
dogs. I rushed out to find the old girl
had performed the seemingly impossible
and got a foreleg through the same inter-
rung space as her neck, and was now
blundering round on three legs, harried
by the dogs.
I called the mongs off, got hold of
the trapped foreleg and had almost got
it free when Catriona, tried beyond
endurance, lowered her head and lunged
at me. With unthinking reflex I kicked
her on the nose and she blundered off.
The dogs rushed back to the attack;
the calf, 3001 b. of playfulness, butted
impartially at his canine friends and his
tormented mother, and I addressed them
in tei?ms I hoped the neighbors weren’t
near enough to hear. They wouldn’t
need to be very near.
The old dog dropped his tail and
hurried off, but the young dogs regarded
me with happy smiles and expectant
tails. I hurled a rusty tin at them, and
they quickly removed themselves from
its line of flight in time for Catriona,
still exercising her talent for slapstick,
to hobble into it. The tin bounced off
her rump, sending her rushing in despair
to bury her face in the loganberry-
canes. Here, with the aid of a hammer
and screwdriver, I managed to prise the
rungs apart and remove the ladder from
its wearer.
I was just breathlessly evading
Catriona’s grateful efforts to prod me
with her released horns when the Boss
rode up to the fence and inquired mildly,
“What are you doing?”
MARGARET.


MULLENS & CO.
A.. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) BLr>327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. D. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: SI 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE OIL-SEARCH SUBSIDY
[From “H. Yona”]
Opending money can be fun
or it can be hard work.
When it is someone else’s
money, it can even be down-
right embarrassing. Witness
the Commonwealth’s Bureau of
Mineral Resources, saddled
with the dilemma of getting rid
of around a million pounds
annually in direct subsidy-pay-
ments.
To date, money has been
available to subsidise all
genuine ventures. However, it
is not difficult to foresee the
time when applications for sub-
sidy will outstrip available
resources. It will then be in-
teresting to watch the way in
which the subsidy pie is cut.
Getting to the heart of the
matter, what we are dealing
with is the philosophy, or some-
times the lack of it, for alloca-
tion of oil-search subsidy-
money.
The Federal Government
now has assured the availability
annually of £\\ million up to
mid-1962. Of this amount, a
third is spent directly by the
Bureau of Mineral Resources
and National Mapping.
Here the philosophy of
money-spending is quite clear.
Work is carried out in areas
which are considered to have
a better-than-average petro-
leum potential and which are
not receiving sufficient attention
from the private companies.
'T'he Government’s handling
of this half-million pound
allocation has been masterly.
For example, a well-organised
and extensive geological survey
in the Boulia area of western
Queensland led to a revalua-
tion of the area and the sub-
sequent entrance 'of Phillips-
Sunray (large American organi-
sations) through a deal with the
Australian tr i o—Associated
Australian Oilfields, Papuan
Apina i p i, and Associated
Freney.
In the Northern Territory,
geologic mapping and recon-
naissance gravity - meter sur-
veys- have brought American
and local companies to explore
in the Amadeus and Georgina
Basins. In Western Australia,
where all the most promising
basins are held by the
Wapet group, the job has been
“Believe you me, honey, I'm counting-up the years!"
more difficult. But again the
people at Canberra have man-
aged to swing Wapet into the
Perth Basin by carrying out
work at Government expense
until it convinced Wapet to
step in.
The problem of how to spend
the remaining million pounds
annually has not really come
to a head because of the rela-
tively light demand. But even
under these conditions it is in-
teresting to note in the press
and oil-trade journals various
suggestions being offered.
Some months ago it was
suggested in a Sydney news-
paper that the Federal Govern-
ment should heavily subsidise
seismic operations, especially
those being carried out by
Australian organisations. The
thought was that the Australian
companies would then be able
to bring various prospective
areas to the drilling stage. At
this point, the large world-wide
petroleum companies would be
begging for the opportunity to
put-up the big money required
for the ultimate effort —deep-
drilling. This is a rather narrow
view put forth in blissful
ignorance of the policies and
aims of large oil-companies.
- wide oil - operators
** look to the entire “free
world” as a hunting-ground for
new reserves. In the course of
the last few decades, several of
the major concerns have looked
at Australia. In some cases
this meant extensive and inten-
sive exploration programmes.
In other cases it involved de-
tailed assemblage of published
and otherwise available data,
plus a visit by a senior officer.
As a result of these investiga-
tions, only Western Australia
is being worked-over on a
strong basis by world standards.
The Federal Government is
well aware that, despite the
huge area of Australia, and
despite the fact that many areas
are still not understood in
detail, the oil prospects of the
country do not compare with
many other parts of the world.
Therefore it has made it a
policy of promoting interest by
offering to share exploration-
costs.
This has brought good-sized
companies, such as Phillips,
Sunray-Mid Continent, Union
Oil, Kern County Land, British
Petroleum, Consolidated Zinc,
Vacuum, Magellan Petroleum
Corporation, and Conorada fa
wholly - owned subsidiary of
three American companies—
Continental Oil, Amerada
Petroleum, Ohio Oil) into Aus-
tralia. These companies are
continually reviewing their
positions in Australia as the
exploration-work enhances or
detracts from the attractiveness
of their holdings. At the same
time they are taking full advan-
tage of the subsidy law. What,
then, would be the action of
these major companies if they
were to see that they were being
delegated to the role of saviors
and capital-providers to the
Australian companies? Should
widespread seismic programmes
sponge-up all subsidy-money,
leaving nothing for deep-drill-
ing, the major operators might
well decide that Australian
prospects did not warrant the
expense.
To this commentator it is
clear that a more realistic
approach, devoid of short-
sighted economic nationalism,
is required.
"Decently a key figure in an
Australian company has
forcefully suggested that the
Commonwealth subsidise the
second or even further tests in
a known area. Of course, he
was particularly interested in
the Roma area, where more
than a half-century of sporadic
testing has failed to turn up
something commercial.
It is not difficult to under-
stand the purposes involved and
even to be kindly disposed to-
ward them But it certainly
would appear that, if a com-
pany has enough confidence in
a structure or an area to risk
further drilling after an initial
disappointment, it should have
enough confidence to go it
alone.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment certainly must seek to
diversify its subsidy - money,
and the precedent of pouring


There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
Australia’s
Better Brandy
TAGI7GS
Pot-still brandy
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
STAGI7CS
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
good money after bad is one
it can ill afford. Let us come
back to the company which
insists that it requires only a
little more capital to prove a
commercial accumulation after
drilling and finding only a
“showing.” Why do these
companies run after their larger
colleagues when they have
nothing particularly exciting to
offer, but run after the Federal
Government when they think
they are onto a good thing?
Perhaps the Roma area does
contain commercial oilfields. If
the Federal Government is not
ready to put up money, why
not give away an interest in
order to bring in the capital
and technical know-how of the
large integrated companies?
A third pressure-group acting
on the administrators of
the subsidy-money is the con-
tractors who provide services to
the oil-companies. These people
are vociferous in their claims
that their methods are the best
and that the bulk of subsidy-
money should be spent thus
and there.
Of course, the true answer is
that each area undergoing ex-
ploration must be judged
separately. Nor is the entire
country being explored at an
even rate. In any one year
subsidy-money will have to be
spent in some areas on broad
reconnaissance-surveys utilising
exploration-tools which do not
go into much detail. In other
areas intermediate methods
should be used. In those
smaller areas further advanced
in exploration, expensive de-
tailed methods are in order.
The final and most expensive
tool to be used is the large drill-
rig which can reach the re-
quired depths. Thus, when a
seismic operator declares that
what Australia really needs is
more and better seismic work,
it should be taken with many
grains of salt.
In conclusion, what the sub-
sidy programme requires is
what it has been getting. That
is, a hardheaded appraisal of
each application in the light of
present knowledge and present
needs. All applications should
be processed according to geo-
logical values and not the
nationality of the operating
company nor the vested in-
terests of particular contractors.
Bank of N.S.W.
Tn this period of booming land
values a “land trust” that is
being overlooked is the Bank
of N.S.W. It has well oyer
1000 branches and agencies,
and though not all of these are
freeholds belonging to the
bank, a great many of them
are. Yet all. bank premises
were in the books at only £l2
million at last balance-day.
Since 1955 the growth has
been £5 million. Before the
war the total was only
£3,300,000. Clearly, much of
the present book-value repre-
sents post-war purchases. But
the real boom in land values
has been over the past two or
three years, and it would seem
that the Sydney freeholds of
the bank alone would come
pretty close to. the total book-
value of £l2 million.
Notwithstanding the un-
doubtedly conservative valua-
tion of the bank's premises the
beneficial effects one might ex-
pect have not shown-up in
profits. This is partly because
of legislative restrictions on
banking profits, partly because
of “fair rent” legislation that
is most unfair to landlords. It
seems that the time is not far
distant when Sydney will have
more office-space than is
needed, and then rent-control
should disappear. At that
point the landlord with pre-
-1942 premises should come into
his own. At present office-
space under rent-control in
many parts of Sydney fetches
probably only 10s. to 15s. a
foot p.a. The new buildings—
with more to offer, perhaps, but
not all that much—charge from
40s. to 50s. a foot.
Bank of N.S.W. shares have
been selling lately at just under
£4O. This is the lowest price
so far in 1960. In 1959 the
highest quote was £44 10s., the
lowest £36 7s. 6d. There are
1,097,500 shares paid to £2O
issued. At £4O each this places
the market valuation of the
’Wales at a bit over £4O million.
The visible net assets of the
bank (including the freeholds)
are in excess of £3B million, so
that the sharemarket is paying
very little for the great inner
strength of the bank or for its
goodwill.
Banking controls remain
irksome, but through diversifi-
cation the ’Wales is managing
to earn profits outside the bank-
ing system (through h.-p. and
other ventures) and it seems to
be only a matter of time before
the div. climbs to 10 p.c. Three
of the other banks are already
on 10 p.c. or higher.
On its present rate of 9 p.c.
the ’Wales gives a yield of 4y
p.c. to investors at £4O. And
that isn't a bad return at all
from a stock which, though
inhibited by banking restric-
tions, is still an equity share,
and solidly backed at that.
The Holden
A fter providing £ll million
for incdfrne-tax, General
Motors-Holden’s showed a
net profit of £l5 million for
the year to December 31,
compared with a profit of
£15.2 million during 1958,
when the income-tax alloca-
tion was about the same.
The almost unchanged profits
were earned from the produc-
tion of 116,348 Holdens
(against 110,241 in the previous
year), together with sales of
other G.M. vehicles and domes-
tic appliances. There were
more employees on the payroll,
and payments to suppliers were
slightly higher.
Out of the profit a dividend
of £8.4 million was paid to
General Motors (U.S.A.),
compared with £7.4 million in
the preceding year. (Share-
holders’ funds totalled £57.7
million.)
Against this, G.M.H. esti-
mates that in 1959 production
of the Holden saved Australia
£58.2 million in foreign-ex-
change commitments and £55.1
million in 1958.
The political outcry against
non-participation by Austra-
lian investors in the capital
and profits of G.M.H. con-
tinues. Eminent U.S. authori-
ties, including Bernard Baruch
and Ambassador W. J. Sebald,
have said that capital-partner-
ship by local residents should
be encouraged by U.S. over-
seas corporations.
General Motors (U.S.A.) is
no doubt aware of this opinion,
but as a matter of general finan-
cial policy continues to exclude
Australian investors from
investment - participation in
G.M.H. And during the past
six months the U.S. co. has
acquired, through a subsidiary,
97 p.c. of the pref. shares in
G.M.H. at 355. per £1 share.
While it would seem a fine
goodwill (and public-relations)
gesture on the part of General
Motors if it permitted some
local participation in profit-
earning, anything like that is
entirely up to General Motors
(U.S.A.). And it cannot be
said that criticism of its present


Invest in
The longest established hire-purchase
company in Australia,
in which the Bank of New South Wales
has a 40% shareholding.
DEBENTURE
STOCK
6 to 10 years
and 15 years a /O
4 years Sj°/o 3 years £% 2 years 51%
Short Term Stock also available from
3 months at p.a.
Application for Debenture Stock can be
accepted only on the printed form included
in the prospectus. Copies of the full pros-
pectus with application form obtainable from
any A.G.C. Brand!, your Stockbroker and
all Branches of the Bank of New South Wales.
Assets exceed £60,000,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
142 Phillip Street, Sydney • BW 2673
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide
Perth • Hobart
Underwriting Brokers: lAN POTTER & CO.
N!
DAVIS, ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hew son & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BL, 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange.
Orange 4034
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP,” Sydney.
policy has been in all cases
rational.
It is interesting to consider
what would happen if a parcel
of 500,000 £1 shares in G.M.H.
were offered now, without any
pre - issue stock - watering,
through any Australian stock-
broking firm.
Return - postage on the
cheques of disappointed appli-
cants would probably send the
broker broke.
One recalls the case of
Peters’ American Delicacy Co.
(Victoria), Ltd., which offered
£200,000 of share-capital in
1929 and received applica-
tions for £2,290,000. That
would be a trifle, compared
with a G.M.H. over-
subscription.
Since the close of G.M.H.’s
last accounts the new Holden
has swung into production
and has had an enthusiastic
reception. There has been no
price-reduction, but the new
model offers more for the same
money. Over 500 of the new
Holdens are being turned-out
each working-day.
Cost of planning and
tooling-up for the new Holden
ran into £7,850,000.
U.K. Bank-rate Rise
TThe rise of the Bank of Eng-
-*• land rate from 5 p.c. to
6 p.c., accompanied by the
freezing of a higher proportion
of trading-banks’ assets, is
likely to make stocks in the
U.K. more expensive to carry
and therefore to make restock-
ing by merchants and manufac-
turers slower.
In the past this has meant a
temporary lag in demand for
raw materials and other stocks,
and in the case of Australia it
has had a noticeable effect on
the price of wool and base
metals. This time the rise in
the rate has not been as steep
as it was 1957, when it went to
7 p.c. Then by November 20,
1958, it had been brought back
to 4 p.c. It has had two rises
this year to its present level.
The moves in the United
Kingdom have been aimed at
curbing inflation. It is a re-
minder to Australians that our
present period of comparative
stability following the big wage-
rises of last year may be deceiv-
ing a period of “phony”
stability like the “phony-war”
months of 1939-40.
It is certainly hard to see
how Australian industry can
absorb all the increased wages
costs, meet greater overseas
competition and at the same
time earn the profits necessary
to pay dividends and accumu-
late the capital necessary to
make us independent, to the
desired extent, of the overseas
investor.
John Meagher (Holdings)
A pparently stimulated by the
better figures of Western
Stores, Ltd., the Sydney share-
market has bid-up the £1 shares
in John Meagher (Holdings),
Ltd., to 30s. This is one of the
very few occasions since the
share-placement of 1954 that
John Meagher scrip has fetched
its placement-price.
The John Meagher business
has no financial connection
with the Western Stores, but
they are friendly, and have
been so for many years.
Meaghers stores are in the
southern inland of N.S.W.
Western Stores are to the west
and north.
At the time of the public
float in 1954 (the business was
established in 1867) a tax-free
div. of £llO,OOO was paid to
the old proprietors, and of this
£70,000 was taken-out in 6 p.c.
notes maturing in 1961. Al-
though it was mentioned at
the time of the placement that
net profits for the preceding
five years had averaged
18.3 p.c. on the new capital
(£450,000) the average since
has been below that, partly
because of seasonal conditions,
and though the first div. as a
public co. was 10 p.c., it has
since been at the rate of 8 p.c.
p.a.—last year out of earnings
representing 13.5 p.c. on ord.
capital.
At the conversion in 1954 the
old proprietors got £400,000 in
shares for their original
£160,000 of capital, a tax-free
dividend of £llO,OOO, and the
£50,000 of new capital they
subscribed at par (£1) was sold
to the public at 30s. a share.
After a five-year wait these
public shareholders are no
doubt thinking that it is now
just about their turn.
Another Pebble
’yUHEN Rupert Murdoch made
’ * his successful bid for
O’Connell Pty., Ltd., Sydney,
a cold wind chilled the office
of Queensland Press, Ltd., in
Brisbane. For no longer are
the “Courier-Mail” and its
sister-paper the Brisbane “Tele-
graph” the only pebbles on the
beach.
Through its subsidiary,
Truth and Sportsman, Ltd.,
Mirror Newspapers have a
plant which is virtually idle
except for the Sunday “Truth”
publication. Staffed, this plant
is capable of turning-out a
daily paper in competition with
the “Courier-Mail” and “Tele-
graph.”
Not even the “Sunday Mail”
would escape Mr. Murdoch if
he decided to return to his
family’s old stamping-ground,
for the “Sunday Mail” has en-
joyed the curious reputation of
having the highest proportion
of advertising to reading-matter
of any Australian newspaper.
The Fourth Balance-sheet
[From “Old Opem'ut”J
A n applicant from overseas
was being interviewed for
a secretary’s job with a big
company. He set out to boost
his capabilities by claiming that,
if required, he could produce
three balance-sheets from one
set of figures—one for the
directors, one for the share-
holders, and one for the In-
come-tax Commissioner.
Told that he wouldn’t be able
to get away with only three
balance-sheets in this country,
he agreed. “No, that’s right.
You need four. The last one
to either attract or repel ‘take-
over’ merchants!”


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Vintage Wines
N S W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD
SUNDRY
SHOWS
BECKETT, lONESCO AND O'SHAUGHNESSY
“'The comic is tragic, and
man’s tragedy a matter of
derision.” The words are
Eugene lonesco's. They could
equally well have been Samuel
Beckett’s —with perhaps one
significant difference ; and that
difference is nowhere more ex-
plicit than in “The Lesson”
and “Krapp’s Last Tape”
which Peter O’Shaughnessy is
currently presenting, along
with a short play of his own,
at the Melbourne Arts.
In lonesco’s “The Lesson”
it is the author, never his
characters, who comprehends
the terrible comedy of their
situation. In the Beckett play
Krapp’s pathetic condition is
never presented as a matter for
derision ; Krapp, in short,
laughs alone. Thus, while we
may share in the fun (though
it is fun of a most unconven-
tional kind) with lonesco, we
can do nothing but squirm
uneasily in our seats —as one
can imagine Beckett doing—
at the sound of Krapp’s hoarse
cackle.
The key roles in two plays
so different in mood and
dramatic “behavior” naturally
make exhausting demands on
an actor’s range, intellect and
sheer staying-power. O’Shaugh-
nessy’s performance in each
instance, as the Professor in
the one and as Krapp in the
other, is quite staggering. His
achievement is to immerse him-
self completely in both charac-
ters while at the same time
never allowing us to lose sight
of the wider implications of
what is happening onstage.
In Beckett’s play the role is
essentially one of reaction —
of the Krapp who lives to the
Krapp who has died. The
curtain goes up on a bleak
scene. A dishevelled, bloated,
bleary-eyed Krapp is sprawled
at a table bearing a tape-
recorder and spool - boxes.
After some minutes of dismal
silence he struggles to his feet,
unlocks a drawer in the table,
extracts, of all things, a banana,
methodically re-locks the
drawer (against whom? . . .
against himself, ’for bananas
are bad for his bowel-condi-
tion, and he still hopes that
with the aid of his key he will
one day be able to conquer
his illicit craving) and shuffles
to the front of the stage, where
he peels the fruit and absent-
mindedly begins to munch it.
This procedure is solemnly
repeated. Krapp then begins
to fossick for an old tape —
tape No. 5 in box No. 3. By
now, although he has uttered
not a word, this man has be-
come an intensely and depres-
singly real figure to us. We
already feel what we are soon
to learn: that he is a failed
writer, that he is inexorably
slipping into a futile old-age
of obsessions and probable
alcoholism.
If the future holds nothing
for him, then the past can do
a little better. For the past 40
years Krapp has “celebrated”
every birthday by recording on
tapes his reflections on import-
ant events of the previous 12
months. The time has arrived
for the ritual to be repeated.
But Krapp now seems to
have lost his desire to do even
this ; so before getting on with
what has become just another
chore he plays back a tape he
made when 39. The voice, by
contrast to the one we have
been listening to, is startlingly
alive, the person behind it
warm, optimistic, healthily
ironic, though somewhat
romantic and pompous.
We learn of a passionate
love-affair, the young author’s
hopes and fears, his dream of
greatness, his resolutions . . .
but they have come to noth-
ing. All that remains is this
hoary old bachelor who snorts
with embarrassment at the
recollection of his former self,
who lusts obscenely after the
flavor of past erotic experi-
ences, whose idealism has been
undermined by a kind of
masochistic cynicism.
In an agony of frustration
and impatience Krapp at last
snaps-off the tape and, in the
play’s most painfully moving
scene, begins to record in for-
lorn, hesitant sentences his
“last tape.”
The transition to “The
Lesson” provides a contrast as
abrupt as a shower of cold
water on a warm body. This
typical piece of lonescophilia
has no heart; it is all idea. And
the idea is a brilliant and brutal
satire of the mind’s perpetual
tendency towards abstraction,
of finding delight, security and,
more ominously, power and
delusions of grandeur in purely
hypothetical notions.
For the role of the homicidal
Professor who symbolises all
thought-processes and conven-
tions which have become
separated from the instincts,
O’Shaughnessy donned tattered
academic robes and skullcap
and added a beard to ingeni-
ously made-up features. And
again he succeeded magnifi-
cently in projecting both the
particular idea of the character
and the larger idea behind the
character.
As an actor-producer, then,
we have probably seen the best
that O’Shaughnessy and
almost certainly Melbourne’s
theatrical world—is at present
capable of. As a playwright,
however, it is a different story,
and it would be difficult to
conceive of his ever doing
worse than in his “Pavane for
Two Moths.”
Why he had to sandwich
this selfconscious and em-
barrassingly ineffectual revue-
type sketch between the two
little masterpieces of Beckett
and lonesco is beyond this
reviewer’s comprehension
and he sat through the whole
programme twice in an attempt
to extract some sense out of it.
A. S. J.
* * *
“Alegrias de Espana”
Folk-dance companies roam-
ing the world hit audiences
with one big bash of national
characteristics ; thereafter, ex-
cept to the aficionado, it is
much of a muchness. The
dances Alfredo Gil and his
wife Pilar de Oro did through-
out Sydney Royal's new show
were probably of immense
difference and difficulty, but to
the uninitiated they were, as a
rock-'n’-roll addict said on
being introduced to Mozart,
the same thing over and over.
But what the little missus could
do to vary them expressionistic-
ally, with fierceness, tenderness,
the haughty brush-off and the
come-on wink, she certainly
did.
Luis Rueda, the tenor, has a
wonderful pure line of Spanish
boop-a-doop, descant or
cadenza, but in the Aragon
scene, where he was obviously
saying rude things to Carmen
Ramirez and the other young
ladies one minute, and charm-
ing filings the next (the miming
was excellent), you were at a
slight disadvantage in not un-
derstanding why the young
ladies were tossing their angry
heads ; as also in the “Alegrias”
in the last act, where the singer
is contending against a dancer.
Besides Mary Carmen
Ramirez, who sang truly and
forcefully and threw carna-
tions to the audience, they ha-d
Diana Marquez, with a skin of
rose-petals melted in cream,
and when she got down to her
chest-notes in “Granada,” etc.,
and opened her beautiful mouth
on a full range of flashing white
teeth, it was extremely
emotional, although she forgot
to put in the cockroaches
running up and down your
spine that Concita Supervia
used to manage when she sang
Granados and Albeniz.
The ballet matched the flar-
ing colors of their dresses,
widely differentiated through
ten or a dozen elaborate set-
tings, taverns, bullrings, street-
scenes and watersides, with a
fiery performance of the whirl-
ing, foot - tapping, castanet-
clicking, finger-snapping and
hand-clapping which go to
make-up a quiet Spanish even-
ing. One noticed especially the
fierceness of the men ; young


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and "help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
BtU
Psfti
Manolo Gil, for instance, so
thin and strenuous you’d think
they’d been starving him to in-
crease his ferocity.
Perhaps the gayest of the
dances was the Aragop finale
to the first-half; there was a
sort of funeral-parlor suitability
to the black ballet for the death
of a bullfighter; the most
original, to a newcomer, was
the dance to only the rustling
of the long, trailing, flounced
skirts which the young ladies
controlled as dexterously as the
lovely earthquakes that went
on underneath them, as fascina-
ting to look back on as any
hula.
One would like to have
heard a solo or so from the
guitarists, Samuel Martin and
Anastasio Duque, who were
either in the of
noisy celebrations or in ampli-
fied accompaniments to songs,
but maybe if they had turned-
on a bit of classical guitar-play-
ing one wouldn’t have under-
stood that, either.
❖ ❖ *t*
“Shipwreck”
In recent years two writers
of distinction in Australia —
Patrick White and Douglas
Stewart —have used explorers
as raw material with which to
illuminate the human situation.
In “Shipwreck,” Douglas
Stewart uses the horrifying
behavior of a group of Dutch
sailors, parsons, women and
merchants wrecked on an island
near Geraldton in 1629 to tell
us something not only about
evil and retribution, but also
how men are judged here on
earth for their actions —that
damnation belongs to the here-
and-now.
Thanks to some hard think-
ing, some hard work and a
flair for maintaining magic on
the stage, Ralph Wilson’s pro-
duction of “Shipwreck” for
Canberra Repertory lifted it
into a select group of memor-
able productions. The acting
was worth all of the producer’s
art; Conrad Leser (Cornelius),
Berta Doig (Lucretia), Terrence
Juliff (Sebank) and John Starey
(Pelsart) rose to impressive
heights in the main parts ; Peter
Steer and Frances Rose created
memorable minor characters.
All in all, it was a significant
evening in the history of letters
and drama in Canberra.
M.C.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦>
Lois Marshall
Hearing the Canadian lyric-
soprano for the first time made
it quite clear why Toscanini
“Send that snake-dancer in!”
selected her for the solo work
in Beethoven’s “Missa Solem-
nis” and why she likewise
ended Beecham’s long search
for a soprano to record with
him Handel’s “Solomon” and
Mozart's “II Seraglio.” For
here is a voice which, though
not produced as effortlessly as
some, is a superb instrument
always under tight control;
which can reach down into, for
a high voice, quite astonishing
depths without in the least
sacrificing quality, and which
is geared to a first-class musical
intellect.
The last-named quality was
made abundantly manifest in
Schumann’s “Woman’s Life
and Love” cycle. These eight
beautiful songs after Chamisso,
among the most delicate ever
wrought, constitute not only
one of the most punishing tests
of voice-control at the fragile
level but a supreme challenge
to interpretative subtlety. The
sentiment here was always
wholesome, a charming blend
of shyness and rapture in the
songs of awakening love and,
in the final one of death, a
projection of genuine heart-
ache.
In violent contrast were the
“Seven Popular Spanish Songs”
of De Falla. Here Miss Mar-
shall tore strips of red-hot
passion from both text and
music, and in the final song,
“Polo,” came down to mezzo-
contralto realms to spit-out a
frustrated woman’s curses at
Love with magnificent bravura
against the savage chordal
thrusts of the piano—an excit-
ing song most excitingly sung.
The mood of serene thanks-
giving inherent in “Oh, Had
1 Jubal’s Lyre,” from Handel’s
“Joshua,” and the “Evening
Hymn” of Purcell were splen-
didly expressive. Another Pur-
cell song, “Hark, the Echoing
Air,” from “The Faery Queen,”
suffered from slightly misty
diction.
Further contrasts were pro-
vided in Richard Strauss lieder:
the blissful serenity of “All the
Fond Thoughts”; the long
legato phrasing of “Tomor-
row,” one of the slowest of all
songs; and the champagne
effervescence of “Serenade,”
which among songs in this
genre is rivalled only by Schu-
bert’s.
Of three contemporary songs
by Samuel Barber, all of them
likeable, “I Hear An Army,”
with its tremendous climax,
was the best.
The second recital was
marked by Miss Marshall’s ex-
quisite singing of Debussy’s
“Songs of Bilitis,” three gems
of imagery whose many facets
reflected a clear, pure vocal
line; three Mahler songs, of
which the wringing pathos of
“Earthly Life” was wonder-
fully conveyed ; the beautiful
soaring quality injected into
Marguerita’s “Jewel Song”
from “Faust”; and the richness
of declamatory singing in
Schubert’s opulent “The
Almighty.”,
Accompaniments of truly
superb sympathy, warmth and
alertness were supplied during
the two evenings by Weldon
Kilburn.
Artbursts
Nancy Borlase
A bright show of abstracts
by Nancy Borlase at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries makes a
cheerful break in the winter.
Most of them look like melons
and half-melons arranged in
nice rolling patterns, vivid in
red or more subdued in blues.
An inspection of the catalogue
reveals that they are meant to
be about the sun and moon ;
but, except perhaps in “Phases
of the Moon” and “Night of
the New Moon,” where the
blues allow some mystery and
transparency, they do not really
have much cosmic significance.
And just as well. It is enough
that they are pleasing globular
shapes, decorative on the wall
and obviously controlled with
a firm hand.
*** *** ***
Seven Painters
The Clune Galleries at Kings
Cross has a show by seven
young painters; and, so faY as
one can disentangle them in the
crowded little room, or along
the corridor where one has to
walk backwards up the stairs
to get a proper view of Brian
Dunlop’s pleasant nude, there
is a warmth to be observed in
Susan Wright’s landscapes and
flowers, precision and force in
Frances Smith’s pinheaded girl
in the restaurant, animation in
Robert Hughes’s Gleghorn-like
head of the war-god, and
(though “Solar Foliage” really
looks more like seashells) a
very promising delicacy in
John Montefiore’s pen-and-
wash drawings.
Films
Sydney Film Festival
(Continued from last week)
The concluding films, with
their strong emphasis on the
lingering effects of war,
deepened the serious and re-
flective mood created by earlier
screenings. A Russian and a
German-Bulgarian film showed
how Nazi Germany’s attempt
at world domination hopelessly
mangled the lives of ordinary
men and women of different


INVESTORS ! ! !
INVESTMENT
ADVISORY BUREAU
offers a
12 MONTHS' SERVICE
• Keep informed on the latest Stock Exchange moves
by subscribing to our investment letter service.
• A.M.I. shareholders know of our amazing predic-
tions on these and other shares made last year.
• M'.K.U. shareholders are still discussing our
predictions.
• These are but a few of the wonderfully accurate
forecasts subscribers have enjoyed from our service.
• Send £5/5/-, fill in the coupon below and receive a
FREE COPY of our June letter.
INVESTMENT ADVISORY BUREAU,
Suite 19, 377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
NAME
ADDRESS -
Phone
nationalities (including that of
a German soldier). A Polish
film depicted the senseless kill-
ing that went on after the
formal cessation of hostilities.
Finally, an Indian and a British
film tackled the controversial
problem of the effect of modern
mechanistic civilisation on an
individual’s sense of values.
The talented young Polish
director Andrzej Wajda can
justly consider “A§hes and
Diamonds” as one of his best
films. Opening with a murder
and ending with two deaths,
Wajda's film, based on Jerzy
Andrzejewski’s powerfully
bitter story of fratricidal
struggles in Poland immediately
after the war, is no crime-
thriller but a realistic, dis-
illusioned and resigned story
of a betrayed generation.
The principal characters are
all honest, patriotic and
courageous men who have
fought selflessly ‘against the
Germans. They all know how
to fight and die for their coun-
try's freedom ; but they must
learn how to live and work for
their people, which is often so
much more difficult.
_ Many partisans find them-
selves in a new war against!
the Communist - dominated
Government. Both sides freely
resort to killing, without any
real conviction that their
actions are right and necessary.
Maciek (brilliantly played by
Zbigniew Cybulski) accident-
ally, meets Christina, a young
girl orphaned by the war (Ewa
Krzyzanowska). He falls in
love ; his feelings are passion-
ately reciprocated. Yet he
throws away his life in shoot-
ing an idealistic Communist
leader (an
camp inmate), obeying the
orders of his superior, who in
the meantime becomes a Minis-
ter in the new Government.
The background is realistic,
the setting authentic and con-
vincing, with minute atten-
tion to detail. Pace accelerates
as the action develops, the
story being completed between
afternoon and sunrise. Support-
ing cast, script, photography
and background-music are all
excellent.
Sergei Bondarchuk’s “A
Man’s Destiny” (based on
Sholokhov's book) is a highly
emotional and truthful story
of a Russian carpenter who
works hard, lives happily with
his adored wife (portrayed by a
charming and able Zinaida
Kirienko) and is called-up as
an Army lorry-driver.
His family is wiped out, ho
is wounded, captured, ill-
treated, but still remains a
decent and affectionate human-
being. His despair and anguish
give way to new hope when he
adopts a starving orphan. But
his health is ruined, and he fears
that he might die before bring-
ing-up the child.
Bondarchuk both directs the
film and plays the leading role.
His understated scenes of the
starved war - prisoners, their
well-fed guards, of the exter-
mination-camps with crema-
toria-chimneys belching thick
black smoke, of forced labor
and Jews being shipped to the
gas-chambers make a convinc-
ing and personal film. Lukin’s
and Shakhmagonov’s script is
good, in spite of some weak-
nesses. Acting is superb and
camera-work of a high stand-
ard. A very powerful film.
W. Draganow’s “Stars” (an
East German-Bulgarian pro-
duction, directed by Siegfried
Nuernberger) tells of a German
non-commissioned officer who
falls in love with a Greek
Jewess being shipped to Ausch-
witz. A Bulgarian transit-camp
provides the setting. The ten-
der love-affair, lyrically pre-
sented, ends when cattle-trucks
take the girl away to the gas-
chambers. A sincere film, with
good leading actors and sup-
porting cast.
Satyajit Ray’s “The World
of Apu” (India) completes the
trilogy that began with “Pather
Panchali” and “Aparajito.” It
sympathetically tells a simple
human story of a young lad’s
marriage, his wife’s death in
childbirth and his final realisa-
tion of his responsibilities to
his little son. Subrata Mirta’s
photography is neat and
efficient.
e. b r
♦J- +JI
“Porgy and Bess”
Greater Union's handsomely
refurbished Forum Theatre in
Sydney (the old Lyric) got
away to a promising start with
its new policy of better-class
films with a brilliant celluloid
account of Gershwin's all-
Negro folk-opera of love and
hate among the fisherfolk in
South Carolina in the early
years of this century.
Scarcely a feature of the pro-
duction could be cavilled at.
The photography, in Todd-AO,
is the clearest and best-colored
given so far, and the cameras
have been used with an artist’s
eye. The story unfolds natur-
ally, its flavor tangy but never
overstrong. Director Otto
Preminger has worked his
crowd - scenes with imagina-
tion ; the accent is always on
compassion for the crippled
Porgy, richly so in the scenes
of tragedy and drama. And
the singing all round is impres-
sive, the best of it coming
from the superbly resonant
baritones and basses.
But it is in the acting that
the film scores heaviest. By a
most sensitive appraisal of
Porgy’s character Sidney Poitier
retains his supremacy among
Negro actors on films. In the
other title-role Dorothy Dan-
dridge makes crystal-clear the
tendernesses and the weak-
nesses which make Bess tick
so irregularly. Pearl Bailey
gives a rich portrayal of the
forthright Maria, and Stephen
Neville is the brutal Crown to
the life. Sammy Davis, jnr.,
bounces around as the vile little
“snow”-peddler and makes a
very good job of the Mephisto
cynicisms of “It Ain’t Neces-
sarily So.”
*l* +£♦
“La Tosca”
The transcription from stage
to screen of Puccini’s opera—-
its theme also of love and hate,
but this time among the in-
tellectuals of the Rome of 1800
—has been accomplished with-
out losing the traditions asso-
ciated with stage-presentations,
yet gaining from the sweep the
cameras can give. The scenes
are sumptuous ; the three prin-
cipal voices are of the Rome
Opera's best standard ; and the
dubbing-in is good enough to
trick anybody. This device
does at least allow actors of
merit to give point to the best
elements of the Sardou drama,
and they are all good.
Outstanding is Afro PoK as
the scheming Baron Scarpia—a
fine authoritative figure. Franca
Duval sweeps through the
jealousies and pleadings of
Tosca in the grand manner,
and Franco Corelli looks and
acts as if indeed he is interested
in painted canvases and women.
Carmen Gallone, who also
screened “Madame Butterfly,”
was responsible for the film's
style and polish.
At Sydney Lido.


A PAGE OF VERSE...
PROFESSOR PICCARD
Some said it was a shooting star,
Some said it was a pheasant ;
It was the most surprising thing
To villager and peasant.
To see it floating and shining there
Over the alps of snow —
Some said it was a bubble of air,
The others they said no ;
It could not be just snow or cloud
Or any such phenomenon
It could not be a waterspout,
At least it was no common one
For they could see a shape inside
That stood too straight and tall
To be a seal or fish caught up —
If it was there at all.
Some said it was a man in a bottle,
But they had drunk too well;
Some said it was a shining spirit
Released from heaven or hell;
Some said it was a thing from Mars
And some the man in the moon ;
And some said it was Professor Piccard
Ascending in his balloon.
His bright blue eyes were filled with
heaven,
His hair like wisps of cloud,
And straight like an exclamation mark
In the high noon he stood.
And up and up to the stratosphere,
Always sublimely vertical,
Ten miles above the earth he rose
In his astounding vehicle.
What is the color of outer space
A bove the mountain snows ?
Purple and violet, sombre, deep —-
But look, down, down he goes;
He will not sleep in the stars tonight
Or camp on Augsburg’s peaks ;
Seventeen-hundred fathoms down
Another world he seeks,
And hardly pausing to change his craft
Or see that it is safe
Down to the Ponza Deep he dives
In his strange bathyscaphe.
The yellow light dies out in green,
The green dies out in purple
A nd all in utter blackness novv
Swim round him the sea’s people,
The shadowy fish with bulging eyes,
The darting phosphorescence,
The mighty shapes that loom in the shades
That never have known man’s presence.
But now they know —for here he comes
As radiant and orbicular
The bathyscaphe sinks with Piccard
inside
Proud, calm and perpendicular.
Oh like a bubble of living sunlight
Down to the bottom they plunge
Where the specks of jelly drift in the murk
And silently breathes the sponge.
From the top of the sky to the bottom of
the sea—
How much I wish I were able
To set Professor Piccard now
In his appropriate fable:
How like a mythological hero
Downjn that shuddering dark
He wrestled for life with an octopus
Or fought with a giant shark ;
How some great lumbering ray or whale
Mistaking him for Jonah
Loomed from the shadowy fog and
swallowed
The bathyscaphe and its owner;
Or how like some new Orpheus
Wandering through dim Hades
He saw the queen of the mermaids there
Surrounded by all her ladies
A nd up and up she followed him,
Divinely fishy and fair,
Out from the dark and the purple gloom
To the breaking wave and the air,
Until at last as the bathyscaphe
Rose bubbling out of the water
The professor yearned for his gleaming
prize
And so looked back and lost her.
Or soaring now like Icarus
Glittering into the sun,
That bright eye shot one glance at him
And pierced and struck him down.
Or like some modern saint, more happily,
Ascending in uprightness
He felt in his strange globular car
A lift, a sudden lightness,
And saw bright angels wafting him,
Their feathers soft as pullets,
Impervious to cosmic rays
And meteorites like bullets,
Alive to Paradise. Alas,
He did not see one feather
But studied in the stratosphere
The cosmic rays and the weather;
And when he dived to the floor of the sea
All eager though he stood,
The bathyscaphe half-buried itself
And he saw nothing but mud.
Yet when 1 think how from that deep
Where life first moved and flickered
His craft rose up like some great egg
And hatched Professor Piccard,
When I reflect how his brave stance
Of perpendicularity
In posture and in motion both
Is man’s whole singularity,
Who crawled from that same depth, and
stood,
And flies on to infinity,
He seems more legendary now
Than any old divinity;
And up towards the stars of heaven
Or down to look at zero
1 leave Professor Piccard now,
Our emblem and our hero.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART
MISS STRAWBERRY’S LAMB
[From a sequence for children]
Miss Strawberry’s little lamb
Cried “Buttered bread and jamb
Is a goodly fare for me ;
Do you know l quickly amb
Growing up to be a ramb ?
Confound that buzzing b.”
And he chased it up a tree.
Miss Strawberry’s little tarn
Ate his buttered bread and jam
Which was goodly fare for him
Beneath a shady lim
Of the tree, then he said
As he tossed his little head
“My horns are curled. I am
Very nearly now a ram.’’
Then he whistled down his b
And went off contentedly.
N.S.W.
ERIC. C. ROLLS.
THIS FABULOUS BIRD
So tightly is this skin, this
membrane stretched my feet
hardly mark it
at all. Only a deep muffled
drumming sound, a patch
bleached momentarily with each
step taken forward. This
sand is a skin
of yellow webbing between
rock promontories which are the
black toes of some
mythical Sinbadian sea-bird.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
EGRETS
[From a series]
Once as I travelled through a quiet
evening
I saw a pool jet-black and mirror-still.
Beyond, the slender paperbarks came
crowding
and each on its white image looked its
fill.
There nothing moved but thirty egrets
wading —
thirty egrets in the quiet evening.
Once in a lifetime, lovely past believing,
your lucky eyes may light on such a pool.
As though for many years I had been
waiting
I watched in silence, till my heart was
full
of clear dark water and white trees
unmoving,
and whiter yet, those thirty egrets wading.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


Telegraphic and Cable Address? “Hatniax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—B\V 8088
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
R. H. ALLEX, M. R. L. DOWLING, P. R. UEVY, A. P.
REYNOLDS, N. R. COURSE (Melbourne Resident Partner)
Delfin House, 16 O’Connell St., Sydney—2s-5911 (20 lines)
Prudential Building:, 150 Queen St., Melbourne —67-5957 (4 lines)
Telegrams and Cables: “Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne or Wollongong.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Younghusband, Ltd.
'Y r ° UNGHUSBAND - Ltd., is a woolbroker,
stock-and-station agent, merchant
and pastoral financier. The Melbourne-
based co. has a Sydney office, and 29
branches in Victoria and 24 in N.S.W.
The business comes mainly from opera-
tions in the favored pastoral areas of
Victoria and southern N.S.W. and acting
as a selling-broker at the Melbourne
and Albury wool-sales.
With the exception of certain dis-
tricts in Victoria and N.S.W., which
had experienced a drought or a near-
drought, seasonal conditions last year
improved considerably.
The average price in Australia for
greasy wool at auction during the first
nine months of the season commenced
July 1, 1959, was 59.38 d., representing an
increase of 26 p.c. compared with the
previous year.
This substantial improvement in wool
prices was evenly spread over the last
term, resulting “in one of the steadiest
periods of selling conditions experienced
for a number of years”. Opening rates
last August were 10 p.c. above those
ruling at the close of the previous season.
Although the market eased slightly from
this point, approximately half the clip
was realised on a satisfactory basis.
Accelerated buying by wool-consum-
ing countries earlier in the season some-
what relaxed the demand in the following
months. Prices edged down by 10 p.c.
to 12| p.c. overall, reaching the lowest
point early last March. Recovering
rapidly, the market was active and well
supported at final sales before Easter.
Consumption figures were well main-
tained during the lower-price period.
The overall average price per bale
for the nine months ended March 31,
1960, was £74 11s. 3d., against £59 10s.
7d. in the previous corresponding period.
Total wool receipts in Australia for
nine months to March 31, 1960, were
£293,581,721 (up £90,435,106) from
3,937,431 bales (up 523,976 bales).
Exports (excluding sheep-skins) for 10
months ended April 30, 1960, amounted
to 1293-million lb. of greasy wool (up
148,0001 b.), valued at £329 million
(up £B4 million). Wool comprised 42
p.c. of the value of total exports during
the 10 months, compared with 38 p.c. in
1958-59.
The co.’s sales for the year ended
March 31, 1960, were a record 165,887
bales (up 39,784 bales). Wool receipts
totalled 160,258 bales (up 21,936 bales).
The carry-forw'ard was reduced by 5629
bales to 20,778 bales.
Gross earnings for the year were
£225,403 higher at £1,381,664. Income
from investments brought-in another
£6484. After paying all expenses, includ-
ing £954,119 management costs (up
£89,518), setting-aside £44,956 for de-
preciation (up £3879), providing £132,000
for taxation (up £48,000) and transfer-
ing £34,000 to staff fund, net profit was
£74,793 higher at £217,646:
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit.* Dividends. serves, serves.
£4 £ £ £
1955.. 168,234 12 p.e. =147,000 21,234 536,862
Profit sale assets, £37,000 .. .. 573,862
Written off goodwill, £3OOO .. .. 570,862
1956. . 144,982 10 p.e. =122,500 22,482 593,344
Written off goodwill, £lO,OOO .. .. 583,344
1957.. 150,531 10 p.e. =122,500 28,0.31 611,375
Written off goodwill. £12,200 . . 599,175
1958.. 149,596 9 p.c.'=132,300 17,296 616,471
Tax over-provided, £20,352 . . 636,823
Profits attributable to prior years,
£48,042 . . - 684,865
Unexplained additions, £32,714 717,579
1959.. 142,853 10 p.c. =147,000 713,432
Capital profit, £8713 .. .. 722,145
Tax overprovided, £1750 .. 723,895
Goodwill written-off, £3900 .. .. 719,995
Asset revaluation, .£474,000 .. 1,193,99-5
Reserves capitalised, £294,000 .. 899,995
1960.. 217,646 10 p.c, =154,350 63,296 963,291
* After deducting contributions to staff fund.
This represented an earning-rate of 14.1
p.c. on the bonus-increased average ord.
capital compared with 9.7 p.c. in the pre-
vious term, 10.1 p.c. in 1958, 12.3 p.c.
in 1957, 11.8 p.c. in 1956 and 13.7 p.c. in
fi955.
Dividend remained steady at 10 p.c.
on the enlarged capital, absorbing
£154,350 (including 2y p.c. on bonus-
shares). Reserves received £63,296 and
also benefited by £8713 capital profit,
£1750 tax overprovided, but were reduced
by £3900 goodwill written-off.
During the year the co. revalued some
of its freeholds ‘‘in respect of which
book-values ceased to be realistic,” writ-
ing them up by £474,000. Of this,
£294,000 was capitalised and distributed
as a one-for-five bonus-issue last Janu-
ary. The remaining £lBO,OOO increased
disclosed reserves to £963,291, free of
intangibles.
The bonus-handout raised paid capital
to £1,764,000 in 7,056,000 ss. ords.:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £1,470,600 £1,470,«00 £1,764,099
Reserves .. .. 616,471 713,432 963,291
Creditors, etc. .. 1,376,521 1,305,686 991,869
Tax provision . . 90,000 84,000 132,000
Staff fund . . 46,977 73,745 . 83,844
Pinal div. . . 73,500 102,900 95,550
£3,673,469 £3,749,763 £4,030,545
Land, buildings . . 656,409 750,114 1 288 208
p knt -- •• 216,900 210,745 ’24-M35
Merchandise . . 109,348 107,583 101,160
Advances, etc. . . 1,999,712 2,249,731 2,329 554
Cash, etc. . . 691,040 431,590 ’ 67J28
£3,673,469 £3,749,763 £4,030,545
No temporary funds were held on fixed
deposit (£350,000 in the previous year),
because last year’s wool sales programme
had resulted in prompt settlements.
Creditors, etc., were £313,826 down
at £991,860. Book-value of land, build-
ings, etc., bolstered-up by the revalua-
tion of freeholds, was £538,154 higher
at £1,288,268. Advances and sundry
debtors were £79,823 up at £2,329,554
making-up the bulk of current assets.
Theoretical working-capital was adequate
at £1,244,401.
Last term showed a marked improve-
ment on the two preceding seasons which
' were adversely affected by a smaller
wool-clip and lower prices. The recent
bonus-issue is an indication of the co.’s
inherent financial strength and resilience,
as well as a warning-light to potential
takeover merchants.
Like so much else in the Australian
economy, Younghusband lives off the
sheep’s back. Given an ample clip and
adequate prices shareholders may ex-
pect the present div.-rate to be main-
tained on the larger capital. So far the
current prospects appear fair, but it must
be remembered that woolbrokers, stock-
and-station agents, and the like are wide
open to the effects of severe fluctuations
in the national wool-cheque.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
fetched Bs. 7d. a unit. The immediate
yield is 5.8 p.c. on the basis of the
10 p.c. div.-distribution.
Net tangible asset-backing worked out
at 7s. 9d. for each ss. f.-p. ord.
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd.
/Capital investments in buildings, plant
and modernisation of equipment
made in 1958-59 have paid off in a sub-
stantial increase in earnings last term,
achieved despite increasing competition.
The 15 p.c. ord. div.-rate was comfort-
ably maintained.
Production of domestic refrigerators
in Australia in 1958-59 increased by
20,900 units to some 216,800 units (exclud-
ing freezers for quick-frozen foodstuffs)
compared with the previous year. Figures
for six months ended March 31, 1960,
show a rise of about 18,700 units to
136,000 units against the corresponding
period in 1958-59.
The industry is pretty well saturated
as far as capital and demand are con-
cerned, and large increases in turnover
are unlikely in the near future. The
major market is now provided by sales
to new' homes and replacements. This
should provide manufacturers with a
steady demand, but little more. Com-
petition will continue to increase.
Established in Adelaide in 1932,
Kelvinator Australia, Ltd., originally
started producing refrigerators, marketed
under its brand-name, and- some related
equipment. Later on the co. commenced
manufacturing frozen-food cabinets,


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hudsonian” Brisbane
J. B. & FRANK CHARLTON
F. B. Charlton, J. F. Charlton, J. M. Fay, C.A.B. Marjason, J. L. Russell
C Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange.)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third Floor, City Mutual Building, 309 Queen St., Brisbane
Telephone: 2 2775, 2 4349 G.P.O. Box No. 61A
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-2-3
84 WIEEIAM STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080, 67-1257
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphbing” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
Wayne petrol-pumps, air-conditioning
apparatus, as well as Leland electric
motors.
In 1957-58 Kelvinator set-up its own
plastics division to satisfy internal pro-
duction requirements. In addition, radio
and TV-receivers and equipment are
being produced by a prominent electronic
manufacturer to the co.’s own specifica-
tions, and retailed under the Kelvinator
brand-name.
Production of fully-automatic domes-
tic washing-machines and of a new room
air-conditioner began in 1959.
The main factory is located at Fins-
bury, S.A. In addition, the co. operates
plants in N.S.W., Victoria and Queens-
land. Since 1959 sales of room air-
conditioners and home-freezers have
made an increasing contribution to con-
solidated turnover.
Last term the sales-volume of house-
hold refrigerators was “maintained.”
The introduction of television in S.A.,
Queensland and W.A. “has proved bene-
ficial.” Sales of TV-receivers have
increased.
Wayne Pumps Australia, Ltd., a wholly-
owned subsidiary retailing petrol-pumps,
improved its turnover and “made a satis-
factory contribution to the overall profit.”
Sales of automatic washing-machines
were not up to expectations.
Gross earnings are not stated. Con-
solidated net profit for the year ended
March 31, 1960, was disclosed £74,507
higher at £312,632, after providing
£344,000 for taxation (up £184,000) and
setting-aside £199,983 for depreciation
(up £17,319):
Parext and Subsidiaries.
Dividends
, Prefs. , Re-
Mar., Profit. Ist 2nd 3rd Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
Tax overprovided, £33,353 . . . . 766,739
1954.. 039 74 6 5 15 113,450 888,328
Tax underprovided, £3372 .. .. 884,958
1955.. 097 74 6 5 15 113,450 1,009,603
Tax underprovided, £29,041 .. .. 980,562
1956.. 293.137 74 6 5 15 138,762 1,134,937
Profit sale land, £13,021 .. .. 1,148,558
Tax underprovided, £3256 .. .. 1,145,302
1957.. 235 74 6 5 15 164,075 1,222,462
Tax overprovided, £11,338 .. .. 1,233,800
Added revaluation reserve, £31,356.. 1,265,156
1958.-237,632 74 6 5 15 164,075 1,338,713
Tax overprovided, £1666 .. .. 1,340,379
1959.. 238.125 74 6 5 15 164,075 1,414,429
1960.. 74 6 5 15 164,075 1,562,986
After satisfying the unchanged pref.-div.
requirements, the earning-rate on the
average ord. capital was 29.7 p.c., com-
pared with 22.3 p.c. in the previous term,
almost 22.3 p.c. in 1958, 22.6 p.c. in 1957
and 33.3 p.c. in 1956.
The ord. dividend was steady at 15 p.c.
Total div.-payout absorbed £164,075.
Reserves received £148,557, increasing to
£1,562,986. There are no intangibles.
The tax-slug shown in the co.’s con-
solidated accounts is disproportionately
high in relation to earnings disclosed.
The jump in the tax-provision is also
disproportionate to the rate of increase
in consolidated net profit compared with
the previous term. The co. has made
large tax-provision adjustments in the
past.
Paid capital remained unchanged at
£1,242,500 in 20,000 20s. cum. particip.
prefs., 20,000 20s. 6 p.c. fixed cum. prefs.
190,000 20s. 5 p.c. fixed cum. prefs. and
4,050,000 ss. ords., all f.-p.
Apart from a large rise in creditors,
etc. (by £364,531 to £1,486,113), largely
caused by increases in provisions for
taxation and warranty, the appearance
of £700,000 short-term fixed-interest
deposits on the assets side and £158,463
decrease in stocks (to £1,695,588), there
was little change in the financial structure
of the co.:
Paid capital—- 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref £230,000 £230,000 £230,000
Ord 1,012,500 1,012,500 1,012,500
Reserves .. .. 1,338,713 1,414,429 1,562,986
Mortgage .. .. 429,000 415,500 402,000
Creditors, etc.* .. 959,827 1,121,582 1,486,113
Final div 107,350 107,350 107,350
£4,077,390 £4,301,361 £4,800,949
Freeholds .. .. 637,265 587,339 574,943
Plant .. .. 1,128,503 1,214,516 1,073,321
Stocks .. .. 1,122,741 1,854,051 1,695,588
Debtors . . . . 399,899 621,791 673,574
Deposits .. .. 700,000
Cash, etc 788,982 23,664 83,523
£4,077,390 £4,301,361 £4,800,949
* Includes provisions for tax and warranty.
Theoretical working-capital increased
by £288,648 to £1,559,222. Directors
point out that “the balance-date coincides
with peak liquidity.” Net tangible asset-
backing worked out at 12s. 9d. for each
ss. ord. on the consolidated accounts,
after securing the pref. shareholders.
Relaxation of import-restrictions may
have a considerable influence on domestic
manufacturers of electrical appliances.
Keen competition may be further inten-
sified by imports of refrigerators, etc.,
from overseas producers with lower cost-
structures. Kelvinator’s chairman has
strong doubts “whether the existing tariff
protection will be adequate.”
The co. is facing a challenge, and will
have to continue fighting for its markets
against domestic and foreign rivals. So
far its earnings and dividend record has
been creditable, and it may be expected
to maintain its share of the trade.
The scrip is well rated on the share-
market. At the last sale in Sydney the
ss. ords. were quoted at 20s. a unit. The
current yield is 3.7 p.c. on the basis of
the steady 15 p.c. div.-rate.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Queensland Cement and Lime is the
larger, by far, of the Sunshine
State’s two cement-producers. The co.
also holds 120,000 20s. ords. (amounting
to a 17 p.c. share-interest) in the rival
show, North Australian Cement, Ltd.,
which supplies the far-north of Queens-
land from a cement-plant at Towns-
ville (Q.).
In the past 10 years the annual pro-
duction of Queensland Cement’s works
at Darra (near Brisbane) has risen from
150,000 tons of cement to 300,000 tons.
The current expansion programme at the
works, commenced last term, is expected
to increase productive capacity to
500,000 tons p.a., sufficient to meet the
estimated demand in the next decade
in an area stretching from the Northern
Rivers district in N.S.W. to Mackay
(Q.), Darwin and even New Guinea. It
is hoped to complete the extensions by
early 1961.
The co.’s earnings have been steadily
rising, matching the year-to-year increases
in demand, production and sales.
Last year the Darra plant worked at
full capacity over 12 months, producing
300,759 tons of cement. Sales amounted
to 277,331 tons —an increase of 19,578
tons, compared with the preceding term.
Net trading-profit for the year ended
July 31, 1959, was £50,263 higher at
£402,518, after charging maintenance,
general and management expenses and
making a “full,” but undisclosed, pro-
vision for taxation. To this was added
another £23,772 “interest, dividends and
sundry receipts,” presumably likewise
after tax.
Net profit was £26,682 higher at
£208,212, after deducting £213,078 pro-
vision for depreciation (up £16,116) and
£5OOO directors’ fees:
Net r Dividends— ~ Re-
Julv, Profit. f Pref. — Ord. Total. serves.
£ £ £
1949.. 21,431 9p.c. 7p.c. 7p.c. 18,052 101,952
1950.. 30,717 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 23,224 109,445
1951.. 48,580 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ 26,938 131,087
1952.. 36,480 9,, 7 „ 7 „ 33,756 133,811
1953.. 52,650 9 „ 7 „ 7 „ 43,733 142,728
1954.. 98,955 12 „ 10 ~ 10 ~ 81,596 160,087
Fixed assets revalued, £326,748 . . 486,835
Profit sale shares, £1640 . . . . 488,475
Added to insurance reserve, £2OOO .. 490,475
1955.. 12p.c. lOp.e. lOp.c. 97,665 512,635
Reserves capitalised, £326,057 .. 186,578
To depreciation provision, £691 . . 185,887
To provision long-sendee leave, £5OOO 180,887
Added to insurance reserve, £4OOO .. 184,887
1956.. 148.008.12p.c. lOp.c. lOp.c. .131,527 201,368
Inner reserve disclosed, £20,000 .. 221,368
1957.. 419.12p.e. lOp.c. lOp.c. 139,311 252,476
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . . . 247,476
1958.. 181.530.12p.e. lOp.c. lOp.c. 156,509 272,497
Assets revaluation, £696,693 .. 909,190
1959.. 12p.c. lOp.c. lOp.c. 157,474 1,019,928
The co. has consistently written-off
large, and progressively rising, amounts
as depreciation provisions. Last year’s
write-off exceeded disclosed net profit.
Accounts carry a depreciation reserve
to the tune of £1,515,971 (up £200,215),
against a book-value of £3,439,022 for
plant, fittings, etc. (at co.’s valuation,
after the recent assets write-up).
The disclosed earning-rate on average
ord. capital was almost 13.8 p.c., after
satisfying the pref.-div. charges, com-
pared with 11.8 p.c. in the previous
term.
First and second prefs. received steady
12 p.c. and 10 p.c. dividend-cheques
respectively. Ord. div. was also steady
at 10 p.c. The total payout absorbed
£157,474, leaving £50,738 to reserves,
disclosed at £1,019,928 (excluding the
depreciation reserve).
Revaluing its freeholds, plant, fittings,


La fee
Investments
LIMITED
ISSUE
AT PAR (£lO 0)
OF £l r 00 0.000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
INVEST NOW
Interest rates:
8% per annum 3 years or more
7% per annum 2 years
6% per annum ] year
5% per annum £ months
a
v.\v
v
•.MAM
• ••:•:•.••
V.*
•-•-• A
%%
•• • •
mamam
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS OR MORE
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000. ASSET BACKING, £1,086
FOR EACH £lOO of registered mortgage debenture stock
Application for Debentures may only be made on the application
Forms attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
PARKER & STEWART
Underwriting Brokers,
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
56 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: BW 1057.
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or direct from the Company
or its subsidiaries.
LATEC FINANCE PTY. LTD.
113-115 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: FA 6681.
lATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
|,atec House,
741 Hunter Street,
NEWCASTLE WEST, N.S.W.
Phone: MA 4344.
SY3O6IAB
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
etc., the co. wrote-up book-
values by £696,693. A glance
at the balance-sheet shows
that plant, etc., was the asset
mainly affected. Book-value
of freehold property increased
by only £12,000:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959.
Preference .. £227,001 £227,061
Ordinary .. 1,340,500 1,442,505
Reserves .. 272,497 1,019,928
Depreciation re-
serve .. .. 1,315,756 1,515,971
Creditors* .. 496,264 520,502
Staff benefit funds 20,000 20,000
Final dividends 109,636 110,178
£3,781,914 £4,856,145
Freehold property 49,400 61,400
Plant, fittings . . 2,625,087 3,439,022
Shares in other
cos 124,634 124,574
Stocks on hand. . 695,335 776,763
Debtors .. 286,858 330,847
Cash, etc. .. 600 123,539
£3,781,914 £4,856,145
Paid capital at balance-date
was £102,005 higher at
£1,669,566, due to a one-for-
three par issue of 522,520 20s.
ords., paid-up to 45., shortly
before the close of accounts.
Total included 44,878 20s.
8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 182,183
20s. 6 p.c. cum. prefs. The
prefs. advance point for point
with the ords., after the latter
have received 6 p.c., and
participate in new issues.
After ruling-off the books,
the co. decided to give its
shareholders a little more of
the good things of life. The
£696,693 asset - revaluation
reserve was capitalised, and a
one - for - three bonus - issue
made. All classes of shares
participated.
The bonus-issue, and calls
on the contributing shares,
increased total paid capital to
£2,367,889, reflecting the
expanding investment in the
co.’s assets and its rising pro-
ductive capacity.
Earning-rates and future
growth will be largely governed
by the rate of economic
development in Queensland.
Demand is pretty well geared
to the level of industrial and
commercial construction and
home-building in the State.
Although sudden leaps can
hardly be expected, a steady
rising trend in output and
sales could be safely predicted.
Queensland Cement’s scrip is
a solid investment in a basic
industry, especially since the
co.’s prices compare favorably
with those ruling in other
States.
At the last sale in Brisbane
the 20s. ords. fetched 595. 9d.
each, for an immediate return
of 3.3 p.c. p.a., on the basis
of the steady 10 p.c. div.-rate.
The first and second prefs.
changed hands at 515., and
48s. 9d. for a 20s. unit
respectively.
Net tangible asset-backing
is £59 18s. 7d. for each first
pref., £l4 10s. 4d. for second
prefs. and 30s. lid. for each
ord. (all 20s. units).
Texas Australian Oil
'T'exas Australian Explora-
tion, Ltd., will offer
4,000,000 2s. 6d. ords. at par
(instead of 2,000,000 ss. ords.
originally contemplated) early
in July. The shares will be
payable in full on application.
Underwriters are Messrs.
Ronald Walton and Co.,
Sydney brokers.
It is intended to list the
shares as soon as share-certi-
ficates have been issued to
allottees and other formalities
complied with.
Texas American Oil Corp.
has been issued with 2,400,000
2s. 6d. ords. as consideration
for a working-interest in some
producing oil- and gas-wells
in Texas. The public issue
will bring paid capital to
£801,250 in 6,410,004 2s. 6d.
ords.
Texas American Oil Corp.
also holds an option for a
further 600,000 2s. 6d. ords.,
at _ls. 3d. premium a share,
which may be taken-up any
time, but not earlier than one
year or later than three years
after the date of the pros-
pectus.
The co. was incorporated in
N.S.W. on February 12, 1960
(see B. 24/2/’6O). An added
feature is Texas Australian’s
7| p.c. share-interest in Texas
American Oil Corp.
After payment of preliminary


Put your money into
Gilt-edged Securities -
THE SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5i%
LOAN
Is Covernment-Cuaranteed
For 1, 10 or 25 years!
You will find it very easy—and perfectly safe —to gain a
higher income from this Government-Guaranteed security.
The Sydney Water Board Loan assures an unfailing 5£ per
cent, every year to short, medium and long-term investors.
Loan interest is payable on Ist February and Ist August
throughout the period you select—and the N.S.W. Govern-
ment also guarantees that your principal will be repaid in full
when the Loan matures.
All Trust Funds —including Superannuation, Provident,
Church Benefit and others —can also earn 5| per cent. The
Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queens-
land, Western Australia and Tasmania.
You can become a Loan Investor in a few
minutes at any office of the
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water Board Offices.
THE SYDNEY WATER BOARD LOAN
Underwritten by
Ralph W. King & Yuill :: Emesi L. Davis & Co.
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, Vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Eat. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - 27-3144
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
expenses, full subscription of
the public share-issue would
leave about £420,000 as
working-capital.
The co. owns prospecting
rights over some 6,400,000
acres in N.S.W. This includes
Petroleum Exploration Permit
29, covering about 5000
square-miles in the Murray
River Basin in southern
N.S.W., and Permit 44, extend-
ing over about 5000 square-
miles in the Great Artesian
Basin in north - western
N.S.W. The annual rent is
£5OO for each permit. The
licences are subject to succes-
sive renewals of not more than
12 months at a time.
Texas Australian Explora-
tion proposes to carry-out “a
vigorous programme of ex-
ploration” of permits 29 and
44 by means of photo-
geological reconnaissance-maps
and stereostructural contour-
maps, field-studies, aerial
magnetometer surveys and
seismographic surveys. The
object will be to determine the
places where test-wells should
be drilled. It is intended to
drill two 6000 ft. wells in each
permit-area. Estimated cost
of each drilling is about
£50,000.
Two new Australian directors
(F. A. Brodie and L. J. Brain)
have joined the board.
Peko Mines, N.L.
Tl>eko’s report of May 9, 1960,
*- was welcomed by investors.
Some details are given of the
co.’s seven-year contract with
Japan. Sales are based on the
world - parity selling-price of
copper. This places the co.
outside the orbit of the Aus-
tralian copper-bounty.
In effect it means that if the
price of copper goes high Peko
will benefit considerably; but
if the price drops below profit-
level the outlook won’t be so
good.
It is thought in some quarters
that it is a pity that Peko
couldn’t find some basis for a
tie-up with the giant Mt. Isa
which produces, per day, more
concentrates than Peko per
month.
Regarding Orlando, the re-
port gives a straightforward
description of operations on
that interesting lease. Ap-
parently it is impossible for
anyone, at this stage, to deter-
mine the potential value of
this Peko pup. As develop-
ment proceeds it appears more
and more likely that Orlando,
ultimately, will be classed
as a coppermine rather than as
a goldmine. Salient points of
the report are that hope lies in
deep mining—development will
take time—and shareholders
must be patient. This was not
quite the picture in the minds
of the shareholders after the
six diamond-drill results were
published. But it is typical of
mining.
Western' Aluminium, N.L.
Western Mining Corpora-
tion, acting as general-
managers for Western
Aluminium, N.L. member
of the Western Mining group),
has announced that arrange-
ments have been completed
for the supply to Japan of
three 10,000-ton. trial-ship-
ments of bauxite.
The shipments will be made
from Western Aluminium’s
deposits in the Darling Ranges
(W.A.) through the Japanese-
owned Mitsubishi (Australia)
Pty ;
One shipment will go to
each of the three major
aluminium-producing cos. in
Japan —Nippon Light Metal
Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Chemical
Co., Ltd., and Showa
Denko K.K.
The first lot will be shipped
about July 11, 1960, to Nippon
Light Metal Co., Ltd.
Industrial Acceptance Corp.
T ists opened on June 23,
1960, for subscriptions to
£1,000,000 unsecured notes
issued by Industrial Accept-
ance Corporation, Ltd. The
co. is a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary of Industrial Accept-
ance Holdings, Ltd., a leading
h.-p. finance co., in which the
A.N.Z. Bank holds a 14 p.c.
share-interest.
Rates and periods range
from 3y p.c. p.a. at 14-days
call to 7 p.c. p.a. for four
years and over.


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Kupid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
et„. Makers of Classifiers,
Water I’ilters, Steam Valves,
eto
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES JOSEPH NICOL formerly
of 1 Russell Street Fivedock.—TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE NICOL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4252 of 1959
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 12th day of September
1960 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from C. P. DIGNAM,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney-—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
75 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, June 21, 1960.
TAelegates from more than
1000 organisations have
been attending the Govern-
ment-sponsored Industrial
Development Conference in
Wellington.
The 1957-58 balance-of-
payments crisis brought N.Z.
to the centre of its industrial
problems, the Prime Minister,
Mr. Nash, said in his opening
address.
Though N.Z. industry had
developed, growth had not
been fast enough to diminish
reliance on imports. Instead
of depending on imports of
finished consumer - goods, the
country was now dependent
on imports of raw materials,
machinery and equipment.
In the five years up to and
including 1958 N.Z. had
imported, on average, £29
million a year more than
it was able to pay for out of
current receipts.
The crisis came in 1957,
when the Government was
forced into measures which
entailed severe import-reduc-
tions and fiscal measures to
restrain demand.
When the Government came
to examine the extent and
nature of imports that could
be reduced, it found the scope
severely limited. Most of the
imports were essential pro-
ducts that could not be made
in N.Z., or they were
producers’ equipment and
producers’ materials.
There was nothing to indi-
cate that the future would
hold any more safety unless
N.Z. put in train the positive
safeguards that were needed.
If it did not, it could expect
recurrent crises in the balance-
of-payments.
Lack of Balance
N.Z.’s economic life showed
a lack of balance and also a
lack of development of the
economy, said the Secretary
of Industries and Commerce,
Dr. W. B. Sutch.
Analysing the reasons for
the country’s vulnerable and
unstable economy, Dr. Sutch
pointed to the specialised,
“colonial” nature of its
exports; its concentration on
products which either cannot
be afforded or are not needed
by the majority of the world’s
people, thus making N.Z. very
dependent on the prosperity
of the richer countries; the
extent to which the marketing
of N.Z. exports approximates
an auction-sale; the extra-
ordinary dependence on the
United Kingdom market for
butter, cheese, mutton and
lamb exports; the lack of
processing in N.Z. ; and the
increasing dependence on
imports.
“Unique Vulnerability”
Dr. Sutch maintained that
because of its excessive and
unique economic vulnerability,
N.Z.’s urgent and essential
need was to reduce heavily its
dependence on imports and
on a narrow range of exports.
“It is a significant economic
fact that N.Z.’s market for
most things is two-thirds that
of Denmark or Austria,
approaches that of Norway,
is greater than that of Greece,
is two-and-a-half times that
of Ceylon, 50 per cent, greater
than that of Formosa and
Burma combined, and one-
ninth that of Japan,” Dr.
Sutch said.
That showed that many more
industries could be economic
in N.Z., for there was in many
cases a market of sufficient
size to justify capital invest-
ment and make a good profit
at current prices.
Significant new or expanded
manufacturing projects in N.Z.
exceeded 240 and involved
new capital-investment of
about £73,000,000, Dr. Sutch
said.
The estimated value of new
or additional production
expected from that investment
would be about £6B million a
year.
The spending of the money
would be spread in some cases
over the next two or three
years.
“Perhaps the most significant
point about the new industries
established is that their pro-
duct will be competitive in
price and quality with the
comparable imported article —-
that is, on the assumption that
the estimated market remains
available to the industry,” said
Dr. Sutch.
Motor-vehicle projects were
expected to save several million
pounds in overseas funds,
increase the supply of motor-
vehicles, and introduce techno-
logical development which
should directly and indirectly
enhance the capacity of
domestic industry.
New Projects
Projects at present being
considered involved increases
in ‘ the number of vehicle
components made in N.Z., in
the N.Z. content of other
components, and in the amount
of assembly done in N.Z.
When those projects came into
being, the development of an
export trade in some com-
ponents was likely to follow.
Another change in the
motor-vehicle industry was
the forthcoming manufacture
in N.Z. of motor-scooters.
Domestic industry had
already responded to the
Government’s request that
television equipment and com-
ponents should be made
within N.Z. The production
of television - tubes would
begin soon, and the radio-
manufacturing industry had
now begun the manufacture
of television-receivers.
Dr. Sutch said the changes
in the oil-industry would also
save funds. N.Z. would under-
take oil-refining. The pro-
cessing of lubricating-oils
imported in bulk were in
train. New metal products
included wire-rope, aluminium
extrusions, and merchant
steel-bars. Other developments
involving fairly heavy capital-
expenditure were now under
discussion.
The chemical industry, which
had been backward, was now
undertaking the production of
such formerly imported pro-
ducts as rubber cements,
adhesives, inks and stains, and
vegetable turpentine. The
production of animal vaccines
would make available from
local sources new veterinary
products, a small contribution
to a pharmaceuticals industry.
Capital from Abroad
Capital from abroad had
been available for new indus-
tries and there had been little
strain on transport and other
fixed-capital facilities. The
main difficulty had been with
skilled or trained staff.
When a country had full
employment and there was no
slack to take-up, the bringing-
in of capital from abroad
could not add to employment,
or to production unless the
new capital was more produc-
tive than the existing capital.
The conclusions to be
drawn were, first, that in a
state of full-employment all
work involving preparation
of the site, construction and
installation should come from
N.Z. capital—that is, from
savings—and secondly, that
any additional foreign capital
should be accompanied by
additional workers.
Discussing this question of
overseas capital, the Prime
Minister, Mr. Nash, said that
the Government was not
anxious to have industries in
N.Z. which were fully-owned
overseas, especially if they
also drew their loan-capital
in the form of mortgages and
bank-advances in N.Z.
It welcomed overseas invest-
ment, which was in the form
of fixed-interest loans, or
which was lent to the Govern-
ment for capital purposes for
use in financing industrial
development here.
Where overseas investment
was in the form of equity-
capital, it was still welcome
provided it drew its loan-
capital from overseas to the
extent necessary, and allowed
for a substantial measure of
N.Z. participation in the
ownership of the share-capital.


The Battle of the
marching-girls
By
BLAKE ADAMS
Ted Wilson was proud of
hi s marching - girls,
especially when he
watched them march-
ing in competition.
They lacked a little in pre-
cision, but he was more kind
than firm with this team of
18-year-olds, which was prob-
ably the reason they had not
yet won a trophy. He loved
them like a father, the whole
14 of them, and he trained
them with the fastidiousness
of a ballet-instructor.
“Look, darling,” he would
say in his kindly fashion to
Margaret or Marilyn, “just a
little more snap in that about-
turn, dear.” Or, “You’re doing
fine, girls, but don’t forget to
keep your eyes straight ahead
and your shoulders back.”
They called him Ted when
it should have been “Mr.
Wilson,” and they loved him
in a daughterly sort of way,
although he was only 36.
It was his practice to give
the team verbal orders until
they were marching to his
satisfaction, when he would
change-over to whistle-orders,
from the captain marching in
front, while he would correct
their faults in a sort of running
commentary. Occasionally he
would order: “Team . . .
halt!” Then patiently explain
a point.
Sometimes he took the
junior team in with the seniors
when Mr. Hudson couldn’t
attend practice, but it was hard
to keep a critical eye on 28
marching - girls, and the
younger ones were hard to
manage.
And then along came Mr.
Dane, a physical - culture
instructor who was 24 and
good-looking.
He had watched the girls in
training at the school-ground
one Saturday afternoon and
had decided that they needed
more precision. On the- fol-
lowing Saturday he had
boldly approached Mrs.
Priddy, who was chaperone
and president of the Club, and
had had a long talk with her,
pointing out faults as the team
marched past. He, he told
her, was the very man to
correct those faults and lick
the team into shape.
He was referring, of course,
to the senior team.
At the recess, Mr. Dane
was introduced. A quick nod
and handshake for Ted; a
beaming smile for the girls.
“Girls,” Mrs. Priddy
addressed them, “Mr. Dane is
a physical-culture instructor
and he knows all about
marching; he has trained
W.A.A.F.S.
“Now, Mr. Dane has
watched you girls carefully
and he has pointed out to me
a general lack of precision,
and it is obvious, with all due
respect to Mr. Wilson, that you
are not yet up to winning-
standard and, as you all know,
we have a competition only
four weeks away.
“Now, you do want to win
a trophy, don’t you, girls?”
There were murmurs and
nods, and Mrs. Priddy con-
tinued.
“Mr. Dane has kindly
offered his services, if you
girls wish it. Now, Mr.
Wilson,” she said as Ted
opened his mouth to protest,
“Mr. Dane is a very experi-
enced man in these matters,
and if he can help the team
to win competitions, then I
think we should avail our-
selves of his services.”
Fourteen pairs of bright
eyes were turned on Mr.
Dane.
“As you know, girls,”. Mrs.
Priddy continued, “Mr.
Hudson, our junior - team
instructor, cannot be with us
every Saturday afternoon,
with the result that our juniors
are without proper instruction
for half the time, and I
would suggest, and I hope you
girls are agreeable, that Mr.
Dane take-over the senior
team on one month’s trial and
that Mr. Wilson, who, as you
all know is a very capable
instructor, take - over the
junior team in the meantime.”
There was a general murmur
among the girls and Mrs.
Priddy continued :
“I know that you girls look
very smart as you march, but
we must be honest and attri-
bute some of that smartness
to your glamorous blue-and-
white uniforms. But uniforms
don’t win trophies, and if Mr.
Dane can accomplish that . . .
then that will be the proof
of the pudding.
“Mr. Wilson has been very
good and I know that you are
all very fond of him, but I
am sure” —and here she
glanced in Ted’s direction—
“that he would be only too
pleased to step down if he
thought it was for the good
of the team.
“And so, girls, it is entirely
in your hands. I don’t want
you to give me your decision
right now ; talk it over among
yourselves and let me know
before next Saturday. Thank
you,' girls.”
Amid the excited murmur-
ing among the girls as they
moved off Ted heard the
remark, “Isn’t he good-
looking!” and knew he had
lost the team.
“'C'hun!” Mr. Dane stood
on a box in front of the
team. “Not snappy enough!
Put more pep into it!
“At . . . ease! ’Shun!
D’you call that snappy? At
ease! ’Shun! At ease! The
blonde girl in the back row.
What’s your name, please?”
“Ruth.”
“Surnames on the parade-
ground, please.”
“Harper.”
“Miss Harper, you’re not
keeping your chin in, nor are
your shoulders back far
enough. And a little more
precision, please. ’Shun . . . !
At . . . ease . . . ! ’Shun!
Team . . . left . . . turn!
Quick . . . march .. . ! Halt!
How sloppy can you get?”
A titter went around.
“Any girl who thinks this
is a joke may leave ranks!”
Faces suddenly sober ; eyes
looking straight ahead ; the
team rigid and still, like a
motor waiting for the switch.
“Team . . . quick . . .
march! Left . . . left . . .
left, right, left! Team . . .
abo-u-t turn! One, two, three,
four! Left . . . left . . .”
“ Tanice, dear please —no
J chewing-gum while on
parade.” Ted Wilson had the
junior team before him. “And


Colfeen, be a good girl and
swing those arms just a little
higher.
“Now, girls, all attention,
eyes straight ahead, chin in,
shoulders back . . . quick . . .
march! Left . . . left . . .
keep that back line straight
. . . left . . . left . . . left, right,
left! All right, Tanya,” he
called to the captain out in
front, “you’ve got ’em.”
Tanya gave two blasts on
the whistle and the team
smartly about-turned.
“That was beautiful, girls,”
Ted encouraged as he marched
beside the team. “Left . . .
left . . . left, right, left ...”
Another blast on the whistle
and the team marked-time.
“Knees up, Mother Brown,”
Ted called with a grin. “Point
your toes more, Joan. Quick
march! Left . . . left . . .”
girls,” said Mr. Dane
as he surveyed the senior
team on the following Satur-
day (they were standing at
ease in the hot sun after 20min.
of marching), “we’re going to
have some stretching-
exercises.”
“Oh—no! ”
“Who was that girl?”
Marilyn, the captain, raised
her hand.
“You may leave the team
for the rest of the afternoon.”
Marilyn took the whistle-
cord from around her neck
and handed it to him. There
was a general murmur as she
walked off.
“Attention! ”
The girls were put through
the drill: bending, stretching,
bending, stretching. They
formed a circle around Mr.
Dane.
“March . . . ! Up on your
toes . . . Down on your
heels . . . Toes . . . Heels . . .
Toes . . . ! Team . . . trot!”
The team trotted around
Mr. Dane for three minutes.
“Team . . . halt! Attention!
Team . . . dismiss!”
“Whew! ” said Margaret.
“Mad Dogs and Marching-
girls.”
During the rest-period, Mr.
Dane gave Miss Harper some
private instruction.
She was sorry for her lapse,
but today she wasn’t feeling
up to par. However, she was
sure she would benefit by his
instruction.
He was equally sorry that
she wasn’t feeling so well, and
felt that he had been harsh
with her. She could rest in
the shade for the remainder
of the afternoon; he would
take her home in his car.
At the final dismissal, Mr.
Dane asked for and received
permission from Mrs. Priddy
to train the team on Wednes-
day nights as well as
Saturdays.
And at the end of Wednes-
day night’s training, Priscilla
complained of headache, lassi-
tude and general weakness.
It was a coincidence thal she
lived in Mr. Dane’s direction.
nPHE juniors were keen, now
that they had full-time
instruction. They flapped their
short skirts with their arms
as they swung them in unison,
and their about-turns were
snappier.
“Nice work, girls,” Ted
commended them. “Keep that
up, darlings, and you’ll have
a trophy in the bag next Satur-
day week.”
Somehow he inspired con-
fidence in them, and they
wanted to do their very best,
not so much for the trophy
but for Ted Wilson.
There was dissension in the
senior team.
“He 's not much to look at, but, boy, you should see
his car!”
Linda and Judy didn’t like
the way that Ruth was acting-
up to Mr. Dane, “and as for
that Priscilla” . . .
Lorraine said she believed
that Mr. Dane was taking
Ruth out, and it certainly
seemed that something was
going on when, on the follow-
ing Wednesday night, he
handed Ruth the whistle and
addressed the team.
“Now, girls,” he said as
he roved his eye over the
team, “you have a new cap-
tain, pro tem. If we’re going
to get the best results out of
the team we must try out new
leaders. This is in no way
casting any reflection on you,
Miss Maxwell.” He addressed
Marilyn. “You did very well
—but maybe some other girl
can do better, and we won’t
know that until we try them
out. So, at present, Ruth —
er —Miss Harper—is on trial
as captain. Team ... 1
Fall in!”
HPhe junior team was thrilled
at the progress that they
were making.
On the Saturday before the
competitions Ted had only to
correct them twice and at the
recess they gathered around
him while he handed-out
oranges and talked to them
like a football coach.
“Remember, girls,” he told
them, “that one of the most
vital things in the competition
is the halt. It is then that the
judges come amongst you and
measure your dressage. Inches
out of position means lost
points. Your pacings are per-
fect, your movements are
executed in perfect unison, so
all we will concentrate-on on
Wednesday night is your
dressage at the halt. If you
can get that off perfectly, dar-
lings, the trophy is in the
bag.”
ji/TR. Dane was not happy
with the senior team.
He felt that some of the
girls were deliberately not
doing their best, and this was
the last practice before the
competitions.
In a desperate effort to bring
back some enthusiasm into the
team he had reinstated Marilyn
as captain.
But now Ruth had got the
sulks.
After fifteen minutes of
marching he realised that they
weren’t getting anywhere and
he called them to a halt.
“This team,” he addressed
them, “is not yet ready to enter
into competition. You have
the posture, you have the pre-
cision, but there’s no enthu-
siasm, no spark, and you’re
acting as though you had a
chip on your shoulder. There
are one or two girls in the
team who are not doing their
best and”
“And we know who they
are,” said Marilyn and Bever-
ley together as they turned and
looked directly at Ruth and
Priscilla.
“You had to do some nice
smoogeing to get back as
captain,” Ruth retorted, and
with that Marilyn broke ranks
and, followed by Beverley,
advanced menacingly on Ruth
and Priscilla.
Margaret stepped in their
path, but was brushed aside.
“Team!” shouted Mr. Dane
amid the general pushing and
clawing at hair. “Girls!
Girls! ”
Ted Wilson and Mrs. Priddy
were quickly on the scene
trying to placate the girls.
“I resign!” shouted Mr.
Dane, and walked off the
parade-ground.
“Oh, what are we going to
do now?” said Mrs. Priddy
distressfully after the girls had
quietened. “Girls, you should
be thoroughly ashamed of
yourselves! ”
Ted Wilson was trying to
conceal a grin. The sight of
the team, smartly rigged-ouf
in blue-and-white uniforms,
with hair bedraggled and some
with small bruises on their
faces, reminded him of a
football team instead of
marching-girls.
And as the girls noticed his
grin they grinned, too,
sheepishly at first, then, as they
looked at each other, they
laughed.
“Girls!” Ted lifted his
hand for attention. “Girls,
you’re not under competition
right now. But if you were,”
he added humorously, “you’d
no doubt win a special prize.
However, you are still a team
and we have two hours left,
so let me see how good you
are. How about a special
effort, girls? Come on, dar-
lings. Team . . . ! Fall . . .
in! Team! Att-en-shun!
“That’s wonderful, girls.
You’ve certainly come a long
way in the last few weeks.
Team .. . ! Quick .. . March!
Left . . . left . . . left, right,
left . . . !
“Ruth, darling, shoulders
back . . . that’s the girl.
Eyes straight ahead, Mar-
garet dear . . . left . . . left . . .
Relax a little, girls, you’re not
toy soldiers . . . that’s better
. . . left . . . left . . . left, right,
left ... All right, Marilyn—
you’ve got ’em.”


saved from any suggestion of
the mundane by the continu-
ous sniping of Pathan tribes-
men.
With the tour of duty in
India completed, Garrett
was posted to South Australia,
to spend the next 10 years
as adjutant or quartermaster
in various Light Horse regi-
ments in the Citizen Army
after the First World War.
In a country headed for
a depression, and with little
expectation of involvement in
any immediate war, the pros-
pects of advancement in the
military profession were not
promising. Promotion came
slowly. Garrett was a lieutenant
for eight years before he could
sit for the examination that
gave him his captaincy. By
that time he had been trans-
ferred to Warrnambool (Vic.)
as adjutant and quartermaster
of the 4th Light Horse Regi-
ment.
From there he was posted
to Army Headquarters, Mel-
bourne, as GSo3—a military
formula proclaiming him to
be a junior officer on a head-
quarters where the Chief of
Staff himself moved about like
a whale among the minnow.
An immediate superior at that
time was Major Frank H.
Berryman, GSO2, later to
become G.O.C. Eastern Com-
mand and at present Chief
Executive Officer and Director
of the Royal Agricultural
Society of N.S.W.
For some 19 months Garrett
served on Army H.Q. His
chance to make a break from
the routine of what was vir-
tually desk-soldiering came
when' he was one of two
successful Australian applicants
for entrance to a two-year
course at the Staff College,
Camberley, England.
TThe outbreak of Hitler’s
war in September, 1939,
cut short by three months the
Camberley course. Garrett
caught the first available ship
back to Australia and reported
to H.Q. with the enthusiasm
of a Roland who had heard
the challenging sound of dis-
tant Moorish trumpets. By
then he had attained the rank
of major.
Here, however, he found
that all appointments in the
newly recruited 6th Division
had already been completed,
and, leaving him in no doubt
that the arrival of a war did
not signify the release to active
service of its professional sol-
diers, the Army packed him
off to Armidale (N.S.W.) as
Brigade Major to the 2nd
Cavalry Brigade.
Garrett was furious. No
sooner had he reached the
New England than he sent off
a protesting letter to the
Military Board, pointing out
that he had just returned from
Camberley, where he had been
engaged in studying the tactics
of the German Army. After
that, there was little to do but
wait to see whether or not the
board members would draw
conclusions other than that
he was impertinent.
Whether they were prepared
to concede him his point or
whether a vacancy happily fell
due is not quite clear. Some
six weeks after the Armidale
appointment Garrett was told
to proceed to England to act
as Brigade Major to Brigadier
Leslie Mors h e a d’s 18th
Brigade. His ardor was in no
way dampened by an assurance
from certain of his comrades
that he would find Morshead
not an easy man to get along
with. In point of fact he got
along admirably with the man
who was to become the
defender of Tobruk, and who,
when the time came for
Garrett’s next move, was loath
to see him go.
Dy September, 1940, with his
** promotion to 1i e u t.-
colonel, Garrett became C.O.
of the 2/31st Battalion, which
had been formed from the
military odds and ends of the
18th Brigade, its ancillary
troops and reinforcements.
This, which was Garrett’s
only active command during
the whole of World War 11,
was one in which he was to
be denied the opportunity of
leading in battle. Almost
before he began to lick the
new battalion into shape a
signal came from Australia
notifying that, on the depar-
ture of Morshead’s brigade
for the Middle East, he was
to remain in England to study
armored tactics, which, since
the German panzers had over-
run the Lowlands and France,
had received a higher priority-
rating on the military training
syllabi. It was the intention
of A.H.Q. that Garrett, at the
completion of such studies,
was to join the armored divi-
sion being raised in Australia.
Blarney, General Officer
Commanding A.I.F. troops in
the Middle East, saw the
signal go through. Having
already made up his mind that
he wanted Garrett for his own
staff, he sent a signal perem-
torily ordering him to disregard
the Australian signal and
report to his own head-
quarters without delay.
It took six weeks for
Garrett to reach Blarney.
The plane on which he left
England took all that time to
make Cairo after a frustrating
flight down the west coast
of Africa and across to
Khartoum.
Soon after he joined the
staff of Ist Australian Corps,
having barely escaped the
indignity of being “reported
missing,” Garrett shipped
across to Greece with that
H.Q. With Lieut.-Colonel
C. M. L. Elliott, he had been
appointed GSO2 (Ops.), which
meant that his immediate
duties were concerned with
the disposition of troops in
the field prior to the German
onslaught.
On April 15 Blarney sent
him across to Brigadier Stan
Savige’s Command as “Opera-
tions Staff Officer.” Savige
Force, centred on Kalabaka,
south of Grevena, stood on
the left flank of Anzac Corps
and was charged with the
none-too-hopeful task of
holding the area covering both
the road to Grevena and the
road through the Pindus
Mountains.
When the German jugger-
naut got properly going (Field-
Marshal List sent seven divi-
sions—three of them armored
—against the two Anzac
divisions) the defenders of the
thinly-held line, like the
Athenians and Thebans nearly
22 centuries before, proved no
match for the invader pouring
in from the north. A series
of bitterly-fought rearguard
actions marked the slow ebb-
tide of their withdrawal back
to the embarkation beaches.
In the process Garrett came
closest to being wounded in a
war from which he was to
emerge, in the ultimate, un-
scathed. A splinter from a
bomb dropped by a Stuka
drew its jagged edge across his
top lip, giving his moustache
a lightning trim.
From Greece, Garrett went
across to Crete, whence he was
evacuated by air two days
before the Germans dropped
enough parachutists to bring
the island within the hegemony
of the Third Reich.
TJack with Corps H.Q. at
Deir Suneid, Palestine, a
request was made, from Aus-
tralia, that Garrett be seconded
to the British 7th Armored
Division (the original “Desert
Rats”) for further study of
armored tactics on the North
African battlegrounds. Army
Headquarters obviously had
made up its mind that Garrett
was to be its chief tank-
practitioner, despite any
notions Blarney might be enter-
taining to the contrary.
The A.I.F. Commander,
busy with the task of getting
the 6th Division re-formed
and re-equipped after the
disastrous campaigns in Greece
and Crete, with the 7th pre-
paring for its invasion of
Syria and the 9th besieged in
Tobruk, could ill-afford to
lose Garrett, who had given
plenty of evidence of his sound
understanding of logistics. He
yielded to the pressure that
was carefully exerted on him,
and forbore Garrett to set off
for Egypt.
Garrett, however, was cer-
tainly given the opportunity
of observing, at close quarters,
the tactical evolutions of
British and German armored
warfare when, with a watch-
ing brief, he accompanied
Lieut.-General N. M. Beresford
Peirse on his abortive second
attempt aimed at the relief
of Tobruk. The British thrust,
of three days’ duration, was
blunted by Rommel’s bold
tactical handling of his armor
and, equally important, by the
German 88-millimetre gun,
which did its share of putting
two-thirds of the British armor
out of action.
A signal ordering him to
England and the U.S.A. fob
a further, more theoretical,
study of armored tactics
denied Garrett the opportunity
of accompanying Lieut.-
General Sir Alan Cunning-
ham's offensive from Egypt in
November, 1941. This, with
similar objectives to those
sought by Beresford Peirse,
was to prove successful in its
relief of the shell-scarred
fortress in whose defence
Garrett’s countrymen had so
distinguished themselves.
Tt was now intended that
Garrett should complete
his studies by February the
following year and return to
Australia to act as GSOI to
the Ist Armored Division. To
these arrangements Blarney
reluctantly agreed, for, like
Morshead before him, he was
loath to see Garrett go.
Garrett had settled-in at
Fort Knox, Kentucky, by
December 7 —the “day of
infamy” that brought the U.S.
into the war. The wave of
horrified excitement that swept
across the States served to
heighten in Garrett an appre-
hension for the safety of his


own country. He remembered
the vulnerable wastes of North
Australia and the unblooded
Armored Division with whose
fortunes all his training seemed
to suggest he must identify
himself. He suddenly ceased
to have any stomach for
theory, and managed, in the
ensuing confusion, to be among
the passengers when the first
U.S. convoy stood-out for
Australia, by way of Panama.
As a full colonel he was
sent as GSOI to the Ist
Armored Division, com-
manded by Major-General
John Northcott and with
headquarters at Seymour.
Garrett served here for six
months, first under Northcott,
then under his successor,
Major-General H. C. H. (“Red
Robbie”) Robertson, before
being packed-off to Army H.Q.
as Director of the Armored
Fighting Vehicles Directorate.
Although Garrett chafed at
a posting which meant further
theorising, it is probable that,
at the time, there was no sol-
dier in Australia who spoke
with more authority on the
subject of armored warfare.
In August, 1943, promotion
to the rank of brigadier
brought an appointment to the
staff of Lieut.-General E. F.
Herring, commanding Ist
Australian Corps and N.G.
Force, with headquarters at
Dobodura. He arrived in
time for the attacks the
7th and 9th Australian Divi-
sions made on Lae and
Finschhafen before they
settled down to the task of
clearing the Japs out of British
New Guinea.
\TGith the Allied Fleets gain-
ing ascendance in the
South-west Pacific area and
General MacArthur beginning
to unwind his “island-hopping”
strategy, the chances of the
over-trained armored division
receiving its baptism of fire
grew less with every backward
step the Japanese took.
Shelving years of study of
the science of armored tactics,
Garrett found himself, on the
instant, switched to the vastly
dissimilar science of close
fighting, or jungle warfare.
He adapted himself to the new
techniques quickly and
expertly.
With the recall of Herring
to become Chief Justice of
Victoria, Garrett’s old com-
rade of the campaign in
Greece, A Lieut.-General Stan
Savige, took over the Corps,
which was moved to Finsch-
hafen, where it assumed the
identity of 2nd Australian
Corps. Here, as 8.G.5., Garrett
had the charge of all its opera-
tional and training aspects.
When MacArthur decided
to move the U.S. troops out
of the Solomons for use else-
where, 2nd Australian Corps,
in the late autumn of 1944,
was ordered to begin opera-
tions aimed at recovering the
two islands remaining in enemy
hands, Buka and Bougain-
ville.
U.S. Intelligence had placed
the number of the enemy at
11,000, a figure the Austra-
lians, in making their own
estimates, were not prepared
to accept. They moved the
figure up to 18,000, which,
while outraging the Americans,
did not alter the fact that,
when the surrender came, in
the vicinity of 22,000 Japanese
heads were counted.
During the advance from
Torokina, in Bougainville,
Garrett formed a very high
opinion of the enemy com-
mander, Lieut.-General Kanda.
From captured documents he
got a clear picture of an
efficiently ruthless soldier, who,
with his lines of communica-
tion irrevocably severed, was
fighting on with such courage
and resource.
By the time surrender nego-
tiations were begun on August
19, 1945, Garrett, whose duty
it was to attend to the for-
malities, owned to a curiosity
of meeting the Japanese com-
mander face-to-face, much the
same as Montgomery had done
in Rommel’s case (but which
latter curiosity was never to
be satisfied).
When Kanda did emerge
from the jungle to surrender
his sword to Savige there was
no suggestion on Garrett’s
deadpan face as to the approval
he felt for the precise military
bearing of the tall Japanese.
Kanda confronted Savige as
boldly as the Indian chief
Black Hawk had confronted
Andrew Jackson. Under the
inscrutable gaze of his
comrade-in-misfortune, Vice-
Admiral Samijima, and the
cold stare of the Australians,
Kanda made it quite clear that
had not the Emperor himself
ordered them to lay down
arms, the Japanese forces in
the Solomons would have
fought to the last man.
AAarrett’s hope of being
repatriated at the cessa-
tion of hostilities vanished
when Blarney visited Torokina.
“I had a mind to send you
home for a rest, Garrett,”
Blarney told him, “but you’re
in such rude health, I’ve
changed my mind.”
A month after the surrender
he was off to Wewak, British
New Guinea, to take charge
of the Australian troops con-
centrated there awaiting dis-
charge or guarding the
Japanese prisoners on Mushu
Island. By February, 1946,
he was back in Australia,
where he was given instruc-
tions to proceed, with a roving
commission, to the U.K. and
Europe to form his own con-
clusions as to the condition
in which war had left the
participant countries. This
interesting assignment was
nominally to help condition
him for duty as commandant
of the Australian Staff College
at Seymour, a post he filled
three months later.
Within 12 months he was
off again, this time to Japan,
as Principal Administrator of
the British Commonwealth
Occupation Force. This was
under command of the color-
ful Lieut.-General Sir Horace
Robertson—the "Red Robbie”
of many admirers and few
friends at whose recent funeral
Garrett was a pall-bearer, and
whom he considers to be the
best soldier under whom he
ever served.
Garrett’s three years with
8.C.0.F. was, for him, a vast
exercise in administration. In
that time, and under his
direction, the big encampment
at Kure grew into a sizeable
township possessed of all the
civic and social amenities
required for the troops, their
wives and families, quartered
there. At the end of his tour
of duty he could well claim
to have added town-planning
to his accomplishments and
to know not a little of the
functions of public adminis-
tration.
The naval component of
8.C.0.F. did not come under
“Red Robbie’s” direct com-
mand—a fact that constantly
irritated the monocled general.
Certain of the orders he issued
Garrett for commission bore
all the earmarks of the resent-
ment he currently felt towards
naval personnel, particularly
those to be Jiound in the
vicinity of Kure. These
orders, such as putting the
military canteens out-of-
bounds to them, were not
calculated to make life any
easier for the sailors.
Garrett, who well knew the
sterling character of his
superior as well as his passing
vanities, turned a blind eye to
all such orders, and, to the
credit of Robertson, he never
heard any more about them.
Garrett returned to Sey-
mour in 1949 to resume
command of the Staff College.
When, in August, 1951, he
was promoted Major-General,
he was appointed G.O.C.
Western Command and
returned to Perth, from where
he had set out 31 years before
as a hopeful military cadet.
After two years in the
(Continued on page 45)


Four-square Men and Six-shooters
All TV Channels Point West
Since the advent of TV, Australians
have had opened-up to them a more-
or-less painless, though not neces-
sarily harmless, means of acquiring
a knowledge of American history. There’s
no guarantee as to authenticity—Walt
Disney’s version of Paul Revere’s ride
and the Boston tea-party are redolent
more of the chocolate-box than the tea-
caddy and all Civil War themes are
handled in a way that shows that every-
one on both sides was a helluva good
fellow and that the whole affair was
just one of those things.
There's one period of televised Ameri-
can history, however, the authenticity
of which scarcely allows room for doubt;
the pattern of ail films dealing with it
is so uniform and their number so vast
that it simply must be accepted as the
genuine thing.
This period, more familiar to most
Australian TV-addicts than any of the
history of their own country, deals with
the Opening-up of the West. This event,
one gathers, took place in the 1870's.
It couldn't have been any later because
all the heroes of the various adventures
are youngish veterans of the Civil War.
Some fought for the North ; some for
the South. Others again were merely
in the. war without knowing what side
they were on, or, if they did, they don’t
tell, but just admit grimly that the scar
on their forehead was “picked up at
Gettysburg’’ and leave the student of
TV-history to wonder whether they wore
the blue uniform or the grey. That’s
not all he has to wonder over.
“Out-fight.... Out-talk”
Thirst and foremost wonder raised in
the serious student’s mind is how
the West ever came to be settled at all.
To begin how did the whites ever
win it from the Indians? On the evidence
of TV-history the odds were all against
them. They were not capable of beat-
ing the Indians ; nor did they deserve to
beat ’em. Any given Indian, one gathers,
could out-fight, out-shoot, out-wrestle,
out-run, out-ride, out-smart and out-talk
any white in the West. The Indians,
in fact, were apparently one of the noblest
races that ever drew breath, while most
of the whites who invaded their territory,
hardly deserved to breathe at all.
Indians, no matter whether they were
Comanches, Iroquois, Apaches, Chero-
kees, Crows or Blackfeet, were instinc-
tively truthful, trusting and upright. If
they gave you their word, they’d stick to
it. If they put their name to a treaty
they'd keep it. But the whites! Why,
an Indian pretty soon found out that he
couldn’t trust a white man as far as
he could kick him. In culture the
Indians had it all over the whites. The
English language used to roll off their
tongues with a richness and eloquence
no other race has ever approached,
with the possible exception of the more
cultivated of Rider Haggard’s Zulus. In
contrast the speech of the whites was
rough and uncouth. The only whites with
any pretensions to cultured speech appa-
rently picked it up from the Indians and
only used it when addressing Indian
chiefs.
No Imagination
Tn their conflict with the Indians the
whites showed no imagination at all.
Indian attacks on wagon-trains, for
example, always followed the same pat-
tern, and were always successful, yet it
didn’t seem to occur to the whites to
change their tactics. Suppose they’d
unhitched their horses and ridden round
and round the Indians for a change?
There’s no knowing, of course, but it’s
quite possible that this might have com-
pletely stumped the Indians. Yet no
white ever thought of trying it.
The Army—the U.S. Cavalry—was no
better. Brave and well disciplined, no
doubt, but no match for the Indians when
it came to fighting. Perhaps they'd
have done all right if they'd stayed in
their forts, but they could always be
tricked into sending their best men out
to ride straight into ambushes, where
they’d die fighting valiantly to the last
man. Their leaders were staunch,
blundering old dunderheads. Either that
or half-crazed Indian-haters whose
cruelty stirred-up the Indians into going
on the warpath, with dire results to the
U.S. Cavalry. Then there were the officers
who had been too late to get promotion
in the Civil War and were determined
to get it by killing Indians. A bad lot.
They maintained that the only good
Indian was a dead one, but usually
finishedAip by being killed by a live
one who was better than they’d thought.
They died with their boots on, but
the Indians didn’t leave ’em on for long,
nor their scalps either.
TV 1870
Tp ven with the Indians conquered—
' Lord knows how! —it is still a
mystery how the West could ever have
been settled and developed by men of
such poor calibre as those who inhabited
-—infested is a better word —the frontier
towns of TV 1870. With very few
exceptions—any TV-addict can name
them —these so-called pioneers were the
most spineless, lily-livered, cringing lot
of ornery skunks that ever crawled
out of a saloon.
Take any TV town you like —Laramie,
Deadwood, Dodge City, Tombstone, any
one of ’em —and what do you find?
Ninety-five per cent, of the men in the
town —the so-called law-abiding citizens
—are spineless, lily-livered soandsos.
Switch on any channel you like any
night of the week and you’ll find them
going through their familiar routine of
being terrorised by the remaining five
per cent., who are thugs and desperadoes
in the pay of the local A 1 Capone. If
there’s a sheriff in the town it’-s ten-to-one
he’s also on the crook's payroll, unless
he happens to be Wyatt Earp, Marshal
Troop or someone else with the Warner
Brothers seal of rectitude.
That the five per cent, (including their
boss) aren’t really tough at all (and can’t
shoot straight when it comes to a show-
down) is shown by the fact that it takes
only one man to clean-up the lot of them.
He's usually a stranger who just happens
to be passing that way and stops over
to cleanse the town for the benefit of
posterity.
Having finished the job he passes on.
The townsfolk beg him to stay and be
sheriff or mayor or whatever he chooses,
but he won’t be tempted. This is partly
because he knows in his heart that the
town wasn't worth saving anyway, and
partly because his TV-contract requires
him to clean-up another town the follow-
ing week.
Fit for Skunks
TlJven the folk in towns that boast a
real man like Wyatt Earp or Marshal
Troop are no better than the rest. One
moment they’re giving the sheriff a gold
watch for making the town fit for skunks
to live in and the next they're joining
with the crooks to arrange a rope-necklace
party for him for murdering someone who
was obviously killed by Mr. Big. When
he finally triumphs they're always ready
to pat him on the back and tell him they
knew all the time he was innocent. Per-
haps he believes them, but no one else
does. The probable truth is that they’re
jealous of his well-dressed, well-groomed
appearance.
Store-clothes and five-o'clock shadow
are all very well for the rest of the town,
but not for Marshal Troop or Wyatt
Earp. Tailor-made, custom-built suits
for them, immaculately dry-cleaned ; their
last haircut is never more than a day or
so behind them and the after-shave lotion
is scarcely dry on their satin-smooth
cheeks. Their mission is to make the West
a fit place for 100 per cent. Americans
to live in. They probably dream of the
day when everyone in the town will be
as clean and well-groomed as themselves.
As far as the TV 1870’s are concerned
they’ll have to dream a long time.
Apparently none of the travelling law-
bringers ever entered the territory of
Wyatt Earp or Marshal Troop. That’s
not surprising. What is remarkable is
that with such a team of them wander-
ing round the West none of them ever
seemed to clash. It would have been
most embarrassing for the Texan and
Brett Maverick to arrive at a terrorised
town at the same time and have to
decide which one would bring law and
order to the town and which would go
travelling on. But the supply of towns-
in-distress was apparently unlimited, so
perhaps the channels have split them up
in a kind of province-agreement.


start the day right!
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Doomben Form
Horses prominent in the
finish of the Stradbroke are,
according to betting, expected
to do well in next Saturday’s
Doomben Ten Thousand.
Local top-performer Wallgar
has more weight this time, but
is well fancied. Best of the
visitors should be In Love,
Wanton Lass, Prince Lea and
Second Earl, and Brisbane’s
Hianthus galloped his way into
the picture by winning
stylishly at Eagle Farm last
Saturday.
Selections : In Love, 1 ;
Wanton Lass, 2 ; Second Earl,
3.
* * *
Winners at the Tattersall’s
meeting at Eagle Farm last
Saturday included Dow Street,
who drew attention to his pros-
pects in the Doomben Cup
(July 9). Saturday’s win was
in the 10|-furlongs Tattersall’s
Cup, and there’s only half a
furlong further to go in the
Doomben Cup, in which the
Wayside Inn (imp.) four-year-
old is very nicely weighted
with 7.ll—he carried Bst. on
Saturday, and won easily. The
late W. Mackay bred Dow
Street at his Tinagroo Stud,
Scone (N.S.W.). The winner’s
dam, Rising Dough (imp.), is
by Pylon II from Patisserie by
Felsted. Pylon II is a brother
to Lighthouse II (Fr.), who
also had been at Tinagroo,
and who sired, among others,
Sailor’s Guide.
* * *
First National
The National meeting opens
at Flemington next Saturday,
with the Grand National
Hurdle, first leg of the most
important jumping-double on
the Australian calendar. There
are 15 hurdles to jump during
the three-miles journey, mak-
ing it a tough test for horse
and rider. The history of the
race since it was first run in
1881 shows that heavily-
weighted runners find it hard
to win. More than half'of
the winners have carried less
than 10st., and that division
looks like supplying the winner
again this year. Heaviest
weight carried successfully was
the 11.13 Don Quixote lumped
in 1884, but the best perform-
ance ever was recorded by
Cheery Jack, who won with
11.7 in 1940 and set a record
of 5.28 —and it still stands!
• • • •
This writer fancies that next
Saturday’s National winner
will come from Regal Copy,
Locharn and Asprey, and
selects them in that order.
For lovers of jumping races
—and this writer is certainly
one of them —the Plenty
Hurdle at Moonee Valley on
Saturday was worth a day’s
travel to see. Two speedy
jumpers, Unhindered and
Justification (both last-start
winners), got well away from
the rest of the field for most
of the 17-furlongs journey.
Unhindered jumped the better,
and on the home-turn looked
like winning easily. Over the
last little bit, however, he
stopped so badly it seemed as
if he had broken-down.
Justification- plugged on, and
Line Ahead and Locharn came
from well back. There was
not much between the four
on the line, but Locharn got
the camera’s verdict from
Justification and Unhindered.
Coming after his good win
at Flemington at the Queen’s
Birthday Meeting, his success
in the Plenty Hurdle made
Locharn favorite for the
National —and he will be very
hard to defeat. He is owned
by Victoria’s sporting Premier,
H. E. Bolte, who is supremely
confident of success. Justi-
fication lost no friends for the
National, but this writer does
not like his chances over the
longer journey. Hillwood
again 'ran badly, and his
National prospects seem hope-
less.
• • • •
None of the top National
fancies was in the Melrose
Steeple, and the form has to
be-weighed with that in mind.
The South Australian fencer
Tudor Cap improved a lot on
his last-start form in Adelaide
(when he ran last) to win the
Melrose comfortably after
covering a lot of extra ground.
Recurrent, who runs his best
races at the Valley, was
second, with the old hunter
Knoxie third. This writer is
discounting the form, believ-
ing that the class was well
below National standard.
• • • •
The team of owner E. A.
Underwood and trainer Bob
Sinclair has been winning races
for half a century —ever since
Underwood began to race
horses while still a schoolboy
at Melbourne’s Scotch Col-
lege. They took the mile
Piccaninny Handicap for two-
year-olds on Saturday with
Mojave, and the colt’s win
must have given tremendous
pleasure to Underwood, who
has not been well. He bred
Mojave at his famous War-
larby Stud. The colt is by
Landau, formerly raced by
the Queen, and imported by
Underwood at a very high
figure. Dam of Mojave is
Dusky Rose, also bred at
Warlarby. She was by Dhoti
(imp.) from Val Rose by Beau
Fils (imp.) from Bunting by
Challenger (imp.). Mojave
won at Flemington and the
Valley during the summer,
and now that he is back in
form should win again against
the ordinary gallopers out at
present.
• • •
The stock of Smokey Eyes
(imp.) usually relish a holding
track, and the Valley going
suited Misty View, who’s by
that sire from Wilma Joy by
El Golea (the victim by mistake
of the attempted shooting of
Melbourne Cup favorite Beau
Vite in 1940) from Bower by
Caithness (imp.). She finished
much too strongly for her
opponents in the first Melba
Handicap (two-year-old fillies).
Mervyn Moore rode a brainy.
race in the second Melba. He
positioned Timber Lady on the
rails in the pocket formed by
two Landau fillies, Telega and
Limousine. Telega is notorious
for hanging badly around turns,
and as the trio made the sharp
bend into the Valley straight
Moore stuck hard by the rails,
to take the opening which in-
evitably came. He had Timber
Lady well clear on straighten-
ing-up, and she came away to
score easily. The winner is by
Avignon (imp.) from Timber
Credit (imp.), whose breeding
is given as by Sir Cosmo or
Gostrode.
• • • •
“Gentleman Jack” Purtell,
popular with Melbourne race-
goers for over 20 years, had
suffered a sequence of 35 losing
mounts before the racing at the
Valley, although he’s been
riding as well as ever —it has
been simply a case of his
mounts not being good enough.
He rode Royal Rest in the Oak
Park Handicap, and broke the
drought when he drove that
filly to the line inches ahead
of Music Case and Son O’
France. Although the other
two had more supporters than
Royal Rest, the crowd gave
Purtell a rousing reception.
• • • •
There is no doubt that Geoff
Lane will head the jockeys’
premiership at the end of the
current season —he has ridden
41 winners, and only Bill
Williamson, now abroad, is
within cooee of him. The
worry for Lane is increasing
weight. At this time of the
year, when the great majority
of horses are weighted around
or below Bst. in most flat races,
Lane can accept only an occa-
sional mount. He had one
ride at the Valley—for a win.
His mount, Djarrah, has been


cJcof/multi (:/ J /r//e -
f/m (pAo/ee
f/\
Wherever you travel you will find "White
Label" Dewar's Scotch Whisky.
This is the Scotch which has earned the
world-wide reputation for unvarying excel-
lence and distinctive character.
„ White Label'
Piwars Fine Scotfw Whisky
John Dewar & Sons 1!
big ben, London. Photo: British Travel Association.
White Label”
Dewar’s
Scotch Whisky
-it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
©Will
a model of consistency, last
four starts yielding two wins
and two seconds.
* * *
At Canterbury
The S.T.C. had 93 nomina-
tions for its Maiden Sprint
for two-year-olds at Canter-
bury Park last Saturday, and
three divisions were necessary.
All provided keen contests,
with the favorite beaten in the
first and third heats. The
favorite that did get home,
New Vista, won nicely from
the second-elect, Satinette, and
the lightly-fancied On Wave,
whose first win might be close
at hand. New Vista is trained
at Hawkesbury by R. A.
Dickerson, but as that mentor
was in Brisbane with another
of his team the winner was
saddled-up by Les O’Rourke,
who trains On Wave. Bred
by R. J. Barr at his Osborne
Stud, Richmond, in the
Hawkesbury district, New
Vista, by Port Vista (imp.)
was the first foal of his dam,
Miss Osborne, by Scorpion
(imp.) from Sea Kist by Sea
Tonic (imp.) from Autocrat
by Archery (imp.).
• • • •
Broulee, winner of the first
of the divisions, was the first
of apprentice Colin Under-
hill’s three successes, the others
being on Aglitter in the Bel-
more Stakes, and Hurry By
(one of Darby Munro’s team)
in the last race on the card,
the Sydenham Handicap, after
which Colin was given a
month to think over inter-
ference he'd caused in his
first win. He’s a very promis-
ing apprentice, with 15 wins,
eight of them in the city area,
already to his credit. A legal
man with the apt name of
A. C. Law races Broulee, a
Byland (imp.) gelding from
Seofon, a winner of the A.J.C.
Gimcrack Stakes. Woodlands
Stud, Denman (N.S.W.) bred
the smart youngster.
The most impressive win
at Canterbury was Edspell’s in
the Club Handicap. He was
in trouble more than once
early in the race and was
second-last for home, an un-
usual place for this front-
runner. He carried 8.7, and
the win was so full of merit
that the four-year-old deserved
a trip north for the Doomben
Cup, in which he drops to the
minimum, 7st. In the Canter-
bury race the original top-
weight and others near the
head of the list were scratched
at acceptance-time, and all
weights were then increased
by 111 b. to provide an 8.7
topweight, which Edspell
copped, going up from 7.10.
Whether this is a sound rule
is debatable. There seems no
necessity for it, unless it is
to pander to the heavier
jockeys, most of whom can
look after themselves at all
times, and in any case they
are well catered for already
elsewhere on the programmes.
Also, racing-rules should be
uniform in all States.
As another instance of lack
of uniformity in rules, the
A.J.C. and the S.T.C. have
different ideas on balloting.
Under the A.J.C. scheme horses
at the bottom of the weights
(in handicaps) are ruled out
when a ballot is necessary;
this seems the best plan. The
S.T.C. rules out the lowest-
weighted horses of the main
double only ; in other handi-
caps all horses have to take a
chance of being eliminated. On
some occasions horses con-
sidered the best performers,
and weighted at or near the
top of the list, have been
balloted out. The public wants
to see the best class available ;
and, anyway, there’s already a
surplus of moderates that
clutter-up fields, with little like-
lihood of ever sharing in the
prizemoney.
Caulfield chairman Sir Nor-
man Robinson came to Sydney
hoping to see his namesake,
Sir Norman, Pat Crennan’s
colt, have his first win in the
other Maiden for two-year-
olds, but the youngster was


Missing Friends
WILL ENID GRACE HEDDLE (niece
of JOHN HEDDLE, of SCOTLAND),
believed to have married an Australian
in South Africa about thirty years ago
and then settled in Perth, or anyone
knowing anything about her or her
family, please communicate with
DARBYSHIRE, GILLETT & HUELIN,
Solicitors, of 42 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth West Aust.
MORRISSEY, Lily Marian, formerly
PITTS. —WOULD anyone knowing the
whereabouts of the abovenamed please
contact the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19
O’Connell Street, Sydney, quoting estate
Of JAMES MORRISSEY.
disappointing, though very
strongly fancied. The winner,
Persian Sheika, has done little
racing and hadn’t started since
November, but she’d been
working well at Randwick, and
breeder Jack Mandel gave her
a good chance. Mandel —who
is racing the filly in partner-
ship with his wife and
daughter, Mrs. H. Abbott —
paraded the youngster at the
Randwick yearling-auction in
April of last year, but declined
to accept the highest bid,
475gns. He has, in fact, had
quite a bit of luck racing horses
he bred that didn’t realise the
price he put on them as
yearlings. Persian Sheika is by
Persian Book (imp.) from
Almira by Midstream (imp.)
from Leila Vale by Heroic. She
is a half-sister to Devil’s Wind,
who also carried the Mandel
colors at Randwick with
success.
• • • •
A very good-looking filly,
Aglitter had a runaway win in
the Belmore. She’s by Good
Brandy (imp.) from the Qui
Va La mare Magic Moon,
whose dam, Enchanting, was
got by Talking from Joan
Darling by Gilt Edge.
* * *
Other Sports
“C.S.”: At long last it’s
happened: a football umpire
has been assaulted by another
—a boundary-umpire, after
his home team, Talbot, had
been well and truly beaten by
Dunolly in Victorian Aussie
Rules. Just to round it off,
a Dunolly ruckman, who came
to the field-umpire’s defence,
also copped a few. He turned
out to be a policeman. The
magistrate took A Very Serious
View of it, ordering the
boundary-umpire to pay more
than £37 all told. Obviously
he hasn’t seen much Aussie
Rules footy.
* * *
In Perth the visiting V.F.L.
side made the Vic. record 14
in a row against W.A., 18.15-
12.17. In the V.F.L. games
played at the weekend Mel-
bourne had no trouble staying
at the top by trouncing Gee-
long 12.11-6.5; Hawthorn had
a good win over Souths,
13.6-11.7 ; and Carlton downed
Footscray, 11.14-7.8.
* * *
“Aussie Rules”: My recent par.
mentioning Alistair Lord and John
Winneke as first-year players with
the rare distinction of being picked
for the Victorian inter-State team
should have included Frank John-
son, of South Melbourne, as
another of them. An easy slip,
since Frank has been a champion
footballer as long as I care to
remember. Now 28, he started with
Victorian Football Association
side Port Melbourne back in 1948,
was an immediate star, and in
1952 was awarded the J. J. Liston
trophy for the best and fairest
V.F.A. player. A year later he
represented the V.F.A. at the
Australian Football Carnival in
Adelaide, after which he was
selected in the All-Australian team.
He was again thus selected at the
1956 carnival in Perth, at which
he captained the V.F.A. side. In
1957 he accepted a lucrative coach-
ing position at South VVarrnambool.
Last year he changed to the city;
now he’s leading in many of the
rich awards given to the best player
in the V.F.L. each year.
“Recud”: After their first
three Aussie Rules matches
this season Dimboola (Vic.)
Thirds, with only one point
scored against their total of
170, had a percentage of 17,000.
Another point scored against
them in their fourth match
reduced this to 11,000, but
after nothing was scored against
them in their fifth match their
percentage rose to 15,000.
Surely a record?
* * *
After being downed 33-14
by N.S.W., Queensland was left
with only one forward —prop
Elton Rasmussen —in the team
to play the Frenchmen in the
second Rugby League Test in
Brisbane on Saturday. St.
George (N.S.W.) lock Johnny
Raper is the only forward to
retain his old position. This
was to be expected after the
poor showing of the pre-
dominately Queensland pack in
the first Test. Making his Test
debut on the wing is Lionel
Morgan, from the Tweed River
area. The Frenchmen should
find this a hard team to hold,
particularly as it includes the
hard-running Norm Provan,
with his solid bursts from the
rucks.
* * *
Sydney Rugby Union leaders
Northern Suburbs downed
Gordon 12-6 in Saturday’s
round; Manly, close on
Norths’ heels, easily beat
Drummoyne, 26-6 ; Randwick
had a 30-point win over
scoreless Eastwood ; and Easts
finished too strongly for St.
George, 14-6, after the wilted
Saints had looked good for a
win in the first half, leading
6-0 at the break.
\ * # *
“Sam”: Sydney Soccer star
Bobby Madden, who recently
played his 200th first-grade
game with Bankstown Club,
had previously played 130
first-grade games with other
Sydney clubs. He represented
Australia v. China in Brisbane
in 1953, and has donned the
N.S.W. jersey against Eng-
land, South Africa and
Austrian Rapid. Also a first-
grade cricketer, he has repre-
sented N.S.W. in Sheffield
Shield, and last season scored
99 against Queensland. Last
footy season he won the
“S.M. Herald” award for the
best and fairest Soccer player.
* * *
“Veryl”: Just retired, at 38,
former Australian Soccer cap-
tain Bob Bignell—of the
Corrimal (N.S.W. South Coast)
team, which plays in the Syd-
ney competition—has played
first-grade Soccer for 22 years,
repped for N.S.W. 20 times, 15
as captain, and 24 times for
Australia (three times captain),
and was Australia’s first Olym-
pic Soccer captain, at the 1956
Games. Bignell also played
Rugby League and cricket in
the Illawarra competition. And
in his long Soccer career he
only ever kicked one goal!
* * *
“Mitron”: As captain-coach
of the Queensland team, Gor-
don (“Bunny”) Nunn was one
of the colorful personalities at
the inter-State Soccer carnival
in Melbourne. An inspiring
leader of his team, his football
is still top class, and few who
saw it will forget the first of
his two goals against N.S.W.,
when he defeated the entire
defence in a solo effort. A
veteran of many Australian
teams against overseas visitors,
he toured N.Z. in 1948 and
1958 and South Africa in 1950
as a member of the national
team. Equally at home at
centre-forward, right or left
wing, he played in the right-
wing possie for Queensland
during the carnival. As coach
of the Azzurri (Brisbane) team
he plays at centre-forward and
is the leading goal-scorer in the
competition.
* * #
“Tennisite”: Writing from
London, widely travelled Aus-
tralian journalist-commentator-
official Alf Chave (Queens-
land) quotes the pending
Wimbledon gathering as proof
that amateur tennis is far
from waning. Entries for
this year closed with 300
players, but the figure had to
be whittled to 128. And
apparently everyone wants to
see Wimbledon this year.
Cheques rolled in ceaselessly
for tickets, and £125,000 had
to be returned to those who
decided too late. Chave thinks
the boom is because amateur
tennis —as distinct from the
pro. variety—is so inter-
national, and because its
results these days are unpre-
dictable.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THOSE JAPANESE STUDENTS
Two items from overseas
papers cast some light on
the part played by students in
the Tokyo demonstrations
against the new U.S.-Japanese
treaty which led to the can-
cellation of President Eisen-
hower’s Japanese tour.
The first is from a letter to
the Manchester “Guardian” by
the Very Rev. Dr. George F.
MacLeod, of Glasgow:
“Constant reference is made
in the press to these disturb-
ances being ‘Left - wing’ or
‘Communist.’ No doubt, the
Left-wing are in and through
the disturbances. But it is not
only Left-wing.
“Earlier this year I was in
the United States. It is cogent
to report the most moving
speech I heard there in nine
weeks. It came from a Japanese
Christian post-graduate student.
He said he was 12 years old
when the war ended: old
enough to hang his head in
shame at the Japanese record
of war and its nemesis at Hiro-
shima. One factor alone gave
his growing generation hope:
it was the writing into their
‘New Constitution’ —by General
MacArthur—the unprecedented
resolve to renounce warlike
means and to be the first nation
to make an unarmed witness in
the modern world. .
“The projected treaty be-
tween the U.S. and Japan is the
reversal of that policy. It is
the insistence by the ‘Christian
West' that ‘barbaric Japan’
must arm itself anew lest she
be wanted to defend ‘the values
of the Christian West’ against
her blood-brothers, ‘the bar-
baric Chinese.’
“The young Japanese student
pled with his Christian audience
to understand what the riots
were about. And for three
minutes there ensued the most
terrifying silence I have ever
experienced in public life.
“I shall be happy indeed if
one of your correspondents,
who must know the present
situation better than I, can give
a different interpretation to the
essential claim of that student.
“If no one should adequately
reply, would I be entitled to
ask what precisely are ‘the
values of the Christian West’?
and further to ask would you—
if you were Japanese—wish to
become a Christian?”
The second item is from a
“New York Times” article by
John D. Rockefeller IV, who
himself has been a student in
Japan for the past two-and-a-
half years:
“In today’s Japan there is a
wide difference in thinking be-
tween the pre-war generations
and those who have grown-up
since the war. The, older
generations are inclined toward
traditionalism and feudalism—
tight family order based on
respect for elders and parents,
close control over children,
arranged marriages, sober
respect for any authority, a
sharp regulation of social order
and life’s habits and actions.
The younger generation thinks
more like the young people in
London “Daily Express.”
TOURIST ATTRACTIONS.
any industrialised Western
country. They want to choose
and decide for themselves, blaze
their own trails.
“This means a profoundly
serious conflict for the young
Japanese. He has little of the
parent - child communication
that children the world over
take for granted.
“Another reason the young
generation of Japanese must
struggle to carry their own bur-
dens is that they have neither
religion nor faith. For the
young, Shintoism died with the
war, Buddhism survives on
tourists, and Christianity affects
less than one half of 1 per cent,
of the population.
“Furthermore, all pre - war
concepts of behavior and atti-
tude have been discredited in
the eyes of the young. They
fear and distrust their Govern-
ment, convinced that it is try-
ing to centralise control and
remilitarise Japan with the help
of the Americans (almost to a
man, the voting students vote
against the Kishi Government).
“The young Japanese does
not have the instinctive confi-
dence and trust in his country
that Americans have in theirs.
Indeed, they have little know-
ledge of or interest in the pre-
war culture and nature of
Japan, for they feel it bears no
relation to them." Consequently,
in times of personal trouble,
there is no God to turn to, no
solace in prayer, no minister
to seek.
“Although the young Japan-
ese is deeply affected by the
democratic and Christian ethics
that have taken root in Japan
since the war, he must, essenti-
ally, fix his own precedents and
standards according to his own
wisdom and experience. It can
be fairly said that he is spiritu-
ally afloat.”
After outlining the many
physical hardships Japanese
students often have to undergo
to complete their courses, and
the toughness of attitude these
tend to produce, Rockefeller
continues:
“In national and international
thinking the students distinctly
lack the long view, as the short
view is what they have brought
themselves up on. They wish
fervently for their country to
be neutral, between the two
Power blocs. They want Japan
to recognise Communist China
and to have cordial dealings
with it. And they are united
in their condemnation of
Japan’s economic and military
reliance on the United States.
Their reasoning is realistic.
Since China and all its might
lies only a short distance away
from Japan, is it not unwise to
antagonise it by try ing to
pretend it doesn't exist?
“The students are absolutely
and unalterably opposed to
militarism in any form, and,
as recent events have shown,
they have reacted strongly
against the security-pact with
the United States. For this
they have been called Com-
munist-inspired.
“Japanese students react
more warmly to American
people than to any other
foreigners, but that is a per-
sonal matter. It does not mean
that they agree with our
policies. My own room-mate
of two years was an active par-
ticipant in the wild demonstra-
tions against the security-pact
with the United States.
“I believe completely in the
younger generation’s desire for
peace, because it is realistic, not
idealistic. They want peace
because they knew war the way
no other nation ever has.
People still die from the two
atomic bombs.”
Not Yet Subdued
/Commenting on recent reports
that the Tibetans’ struggle
against their Chinese “libera-
tors” has again become intense
and bloody, Manchester
“Guardian” notes that although
they are still unchecked (being
based on what refugees have to
tell), “it would be as foolish to
dismiss them altogether as it
was last year ; ‘bazaar rumors’
have gone up in the world since


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
* SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO OLIVE MURIEL TUSTIN late of
Manlv.—TAKE NOTICE that LAW-
RENCE JOSEPH TUSTIN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3767 of 19, r >9
on the ground of desertion for three (3)
years and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie Street
Sydney by the Fifth day of September
1960 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. DARE,
REED, MARTIN & GRANT, Solicitors,
of 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—H.
BROWN, Deputy Registrar.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A344,000,000
•
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Mr. Nehru was so scornful
about them.
“No doubt the Chinese, by
deeds if not by words, will
provide their own confirma-
tion before long; they have
already indicated, by the
caution with which they have
been introducing their social
‘reforms,’ that these are not as
welcome as they suggest. If
the battles and guerrilla am-
bushes are on anything like the
scale reported, they make
nonsense of Ngapo Ngawang
Jigme’s assertion that the quell-
ing of the rebellion was ‘a
struggle between the vast
majority of the people and a
small handful of reactionary
serf-owners.’ We who are so far
distant can only be astounded
at the heroism or desperation
that enables the Tibetans to
battle on against such over-
whelming odds ; a population
less than half that of Lanca-
shire, with only such old-
fashioned weapons as they can
lay their hands on, has taken-
on the modern Army of the
largest nation on earth. They,
if any people, have nothing to
lose but their chains.”
Fulbright Inquiry
/Commenting on Senator Fut-
bright’s inquiry into the
events leading up to the Sum-
mit failure, a Washington cor-
respondent of London “Econo-
mist” notes that certain weak-
nesses in the machinery of U.S.
government in relation to
foreign policy have been re-
vealed —“weaknesses that seem
to go beyond mere personal
failures on the part of Mr.
Eisenhower or Mr. Herter”:
“For instance, Mr. Gates,
the Secretary of Defence, has
testified that he saw a list of
future espionage flights roughly
three weeks before the U-2 was
shot down over Sverdlovsk. It
is hard to believe that this paper
was not shown to the Secretary
of State as well; and yet Mr.
Herter claims that the senior
members of the Government
never decided whether or not
to continue the flights in the
weeks just before the confer-
ence.
“The only conclusion is that,
if Mr. Herter saw this list of
intended flights, he treated it
(as he treated the news that
Mr. Gates planned to order a
practice-alert of the American
"Die Welt" (West Germany').
JOHN BULL TRIES TO GET ABOARD THE
COMMON-MARKET SHIP.
defences while he was in Paris)
simply as something to be
initialled and deposited in his
out-tray rather than as a matter
which affected the State Depart-
ment’s handling of foreign
policy.
“In the same way, the list of
12 nuclear explosions which the
United States wants to carry
out in order to see how difficult
it is to detect underground tests
of atomic weapons seems to
have been concocted by the
Defence Department and the
Atomic Energy Commission.
Neither of these agencies is
anxious for testing to end, yet
in spite of the likelihood of
Russian objections the State
Department apparently ac-
cepted their list without amend-
ment.
“The National Security
Council is the mechanism by
which different interests within
the Government are supposed
to be reconciled. ' But, to judge
from the testimony given to
Senator Fulbright’s committee,
it hardly came into action at
all before Mr. Eisenhower went
to Paris. It is equally doubtful
whether the National Security
Council played its proper part
in the other crucial issue which
decided the fate of the Paris
meeting: the terms on which
the United States was prepared
to sign an interim agreement
for Berlin.
“Most observers in Washing-
ton believe that the Americans
were ready, if pressed, to be a
little more forthcoming than
they were at the Foreign Minis-
ters’ talks last year. The oppo-
site impression, however, was
given in a number of speeches
by Government officials in
April ; many people suspect
that these speeches were made
in order to calm Dr. Adenauer
and the domestic opposition,
and that the National Security
Council never gave due con-
sideration to the effect they
might have on Mr. Khrushchev.
“These events reinforce the
suspicion (which a number of
eminent public men have re-
cently voiced to a committee-
of-inquiry headed by Senator
Jackson) that the N.S.C. has
failed in its major task of fix :
ing American policy on the
most important issues.”
Also reviewing the Fulbright
inquiry, Richard H. Rovere,
U.S. correspondent of London
“Spectator,” notes that “the
common judgment is that every-
thing was pretty much as it
appeared all along to be.
“Some people were impressed
with the Administration’s argu-
ment —this part of the testi-
mony was released—that it was
essential for the President to
assume responsibility for the
U-2 flights because to have
done otherwise would have
been to encourage Khrushchev
to argue that the White House
was not in control of the
Government. When it comes
to making the arguments he
wishes to make, Khrushchev is
not moved by any truths or
fictions or anticipations coming
out of Washington. He is
making precisely this argument
now—though this does not
altogether destroy the Admini-
stration’s case, for it is still
possible to say and believe that
the President’s unprecedented
assumption of personal respon-
sibility has probably taken
some of the edge off Khrush-
chev’s attacks.”
As for the competence of the
National Security Council,
Rovere writes: “The machinery
is no better than the people
who run it, and it may be too
poorly designed or too far out-
moded to be useful to anyone.
But the feeling among most
people who have given the
matter serious thought is that


co-ordination failed primarily
because the President failed in
his personal responsibility as a
co-ordinator.
“It hardly required a com-
mittee or-a council meeting in
Washington or elsewhere to co-
ordinate this particular crisis.
It required only a President
who knew his own mind and
was ready, in pursuit of his
Constitutional powers, to pass
his orders along to his loyal
subordinates. Mr. Eisenhower
is not —and in all fairness has
never really pretended to be —
that sort of President. He is a
born committee-chairman, a
born consulter and counsel-
taker, a proud exalter of ‘team-
work.’ ”
Eichmann Trial
Tn a letter to the “New York
Times,” intended to “clarify
briefly the question of Israel’s
jurisdiction” in the Adolph
Eichmann case, Jacob Robin-
son, former special consultant
to Justice Robert Jackson at
the Nuremberg war-crime trials
and more recently a legal
adviser to the Israeli delegation
at the U.N., writes:
“Contrary to what is often
believed, there are no accepted
rules of international law
governing the penal competence
of national courts, nor are the
national laws uniform.
“By some local statutes,
crimes committed on the terri-
tory of the particular State are
subject to its jurisdiction (ter-
ritoriality principle). Other
States rule that their courts
are competent to deal with
defendants who are their own
nationals, wherever the crime
was committed (active-
nationality principle). Others
again extend the principle to
cases where the victims are
their nationals (passive-
nationality principle).
“Finally, there have always
been particular crimes, like
piracy, where the principle of
universality was applied, on the
argument that the wrongdoers
were hostes generis humani
(enemies of the human-race).
How much more applicable is
such a principle with regard to
the organisers of the mass
murder of a whole people in
many lands!
“The crimes attributed to
Eichmann were committed in
practically all the Nazi-occu-
pied countries. Under
principle or another there are
a dozen or more countries
which might theoretically claim
the right to try him (including
several Eastern European coun-
tries). Conflicts of jurisdiction
in such cases would be re-
solved by the usual means for
settling international disputes
—but since as far as is known
no rival claim has been put for-
ward in this case, the question
appears to be academic.
“The Federal Republic of
Germany—which has tried a
nunhber of German war-
criminals for crimes not com-
mitted on German soil —is
reportedly willing in the case
of Eichmann to co-operate with
the Israel authorities.
“There are a number of
factors which make Israel a
suitable venue for the trial of
Eichmann. For instance, the
concentration there of 300,000
survivors; the most extensive
documentation on file there,
and the special Jewish charac-
ter of the State of Israel, which
found expression in the Balfour
Declaration, the League of
Nations Mandate and the
United Nations Partition Plan
of 1947.
“Le Canard Enchaine” (Paris).
GENERAL POST.
“It is, therefore, natural and
proper for Israel to assume
jurisdiction in a case involving
the Nazi design to exterminate
the Jewish people. In assum-
ing such jurisdiction Israel
does not purport or need ‘to
speak for Jews elsewhere.’
It is presumed that Eichmann
will be tried under the 1950
Israel Law on the Trial of
Nazis and Their Accomplices.
Among the reasons why the
‘ex post facto’ argument’ is not
applicable to this law I would
mention:
“Murder has been a recog-
nised crime in every age and
language. For the Judaeo-Chris-
tian world the first ‘statute’ on
the subject was the Ten Com-
mandments. The 1950 law
makes provision for dealing
with murder by a particular
group of people on an un-
imaginable scale. But it would
be absurd to suggest that it was
creating a ‘new’ crime ‘ex pod
facto’ and that the accused
therefore did something which
he could not have known was
wrong at the time he did it.
“The enormity and unpre-
cedented nature of the crimes
committed by the Nazi regime
produced a revolution in in-
ternational law. The new
approach to war-crimes and
crimes against humanity re-
sulted in the Nuremberg trials
(against which exactly the same
‘ex post facto’ argument was
produced), the endorsement of
the Nuremberg principles by
the United Nations, the Geno-
cide Convention and the adop-
tion of national statutes for the
trial of war-criminals in a
number of countries, of which
the Israel law is only one
example.”
Dragnet Digest
Chicago “Sun-Times”: “Cer-
tainly the Red Army is now
making its weight felt with a
vigor unknown in recent years.
And obviously this fact augurs
well for neither Khrushchev nor
the philosophy of co-operation
with the West. Khrushchev’s
recent slash of Army manpower
—a million enlisted men and
250,000 officers —was hardly
calculated to soothe the military
mind. Is the Army, riding a
crest of popular indignation
against Khrushchev, now wrest-
ing command from the Prime
Minister ? Neither the de-
meanor of Malinovsky in Paris
nor his more recent words at
Moscow provides reason to
cheer at this prospect. The
West may be about to discover
that Mr. K., in a relative sense,
was not such a bad fellow after
all.”
* * *
Manchester “Guardian” :
“On the Continent a new
solidarity has emerged in
which this country [Britain], so
far, has little share. That
solidarity was born of the
resolve to build a closer union
between nations which had
escaped destruction by the skin
of their teeth. (And just because
the Germans had come to them
as occupiers, the French may
have realised that, in some
ways, Germany under Hitler
was an occupied country, too.)
For the Federal Republic, this
close attachment to the West
became partly a matter of sur-
vival and partly a way of re-
gaining its place in the Western
world. For its new allies, it
became a decisive safeguard
against a relapse into the old
Teutonic delinquency.”
* * *
Walter Lippmann. in New
York “H e ra l d Tribun e”:
“There are among us [in the
U.S.] some who think that deal-
ing with the Russians is not


fiailh in ihc
By the length of years in which history is
counted, the Australian story is brief. It has also
been impressive.
In little more than a century—one hundred
and twelve years from the first British settlement,
to be precise—our parents by 1900 had brought
this country out into a national unity in Federation.
Sixty years on from that again, we can claim
to have built well on those solid foundations. The
past, ten years, particularly, have produced a
sudden and dramatic growth.
One of the temptations of success, however,
is to imagine that whatever is achieved is the
ultimate in achievement. That is a delusion. And
I believe it is necessary to remind ourselves often
that the real work of building this nation has
scarcely begun.
We are still in the midst of “the Australian
experiment.” There is no ultimate in what we
have done, or, for that matter, in what we hope in
the long future to do.
The very expansion upon which we have
entered will demand more in effort and application
than was ever required in the past. In other words,
a continuance of our prosperity will have to be
earned —and the earning will be no easier because
the times are good.
The need I see for making this observation is
born of the thought that we could so easily mistake
vague hope for a really active faith in our country,
thus robbing ourselves of the spiritual and moral
force that was the strength of those who have gone
before us.
A self-centred generation could bring down in
a few years what it has taken a succession of
lifetimes to build.
But by the same rule—and this is the more
positive way of expressing our faith in the future
a generous determination to give ourselves
wholeheartedly to our country’s cause, putting that
as a higher and more honourable motive than
personal gain, will multiply many times over the
national blessings that are already ours.
Future
like chess, which is a matching
of forces and of wits, but rather
like prizefighting, wrestling, or
football. The best job, they
feel, will be done by the man
who has shown that he can talk
back and that, to come back
to chess, he will never move
his pieces in any direction ex-
cept forward. They misjudge
the game that is being played.
They misjudge the kind of
struggle we are in.
“What the struggle calls for
is not stubbornness. Any fool
can be stubborn. The struggle
requires skill, shrewdness, saga-
city and imagination in seeing
things as they are, and what
can be made of them. The
struggle cannot be won by
absent and absentminded men.
It can be won only by men
whose attention in all their
waking hours is concentrated
on the situation—as was Chur-
chill’s and Roosevelt s in con-
ducting the war.”
* * *
Joseph Alsop, in New York
“Herald Tribune”: “After the
explosion at the Summit and
its sequels, the Soviet leaders
are now known to have passed
the word 'to the satellite Gov-
ernments that everything in
Paris went ‘according to plan ’
From the feported presentation
of the matter to the satellites, it
is even clear that Khrushchev
would have been most unhappy
to have been forced to the con-
ference-table, so to say, by
Western acceptance of his
humiliating demands for an
apology from President Eisen-
hower.
“In sum, the Moscow evi-
dence strongly reinforces the
parallel between the Berlin and
Quemoy crises. A tilting mili-
tary balance and hints of
Western disunity encouraged
Khrushchev to try to see what
he could get at Berlin. He
ceased to try when he found the
attempt too risky. The moral
is, therefore, that an appear-
ance of Western resolution and
a strengthened military balance
are the best safeguards of the
future.”
* * *
London “Financial Times” :
“Japanese imports of wool rose
by 40 per cent, last year and
during the current season of
Australian wool auctions Japan
has for the first time displaced
Bradford as the leading buyer.
Even so, there are still restric-
tions on the amount of foreign
currency which Japanese im-
porters can spend on wool, and
as recently as last December
these were so strict that foreign-
currency allocations were
changing hands between differ-
ent firms at nearly 20 per
cent, above the market value.
The system is being gradually
liberalised, and the latest
allocations for the six months
from April to September are
considerably larger, but it will
not be until April, 1961, that
the Japanese trade becomes
free to import as much wool
as it likes.
“Among the poorer Far
Eastern countries, China’s con-
sumption still amounts to only
about one pound of wool a
head a year. But in a country
of 650 m. people an increase
from this level to something
which was still only a fraction
of Western wool-consumption
would have a marked effect on
the world market.”
* * *
President de Gaulle: “What
was necessary yesterday will
still be necessary tomorrow.
The detente, the controlled dis-
armament of strategic weapons,
the co-operation of the well-
provided States in the develop-
ment of those which are not,
remain as much as ever the
goals that the other world
Powers owe it to themselves
and to the universe to accom-
plish together.”
* * *
Manchester “G u a r d i a n”:
“V iole n t clashes between
demonstrators and the Polish
police have been reported twice
within recent weeks. On each
occasion the rioting started over
a religious issue. At Nowa
Huta, the model steel-town in
Southern Poland, a large crowd
fought a pitched battle after an
attempt had been made to
remove a cross from a site
reserved for a church. And
trouble broke out in the textile-
town of Zielona Gora, in
Western Poland, when the
authorities there tried to take
over a church-hall for use as a
concert-hall and had to call-in
police reinforcements.
. “There have been other signs,
too, that the uneasy truce be-
tween the Comrqunist Govern-
ment and the Roman Catholic
Church might be coming to
an end. The regime, faced
with unyielding economic diffi-
culties, is trying to tighten-up
its dogmas. Polish Stalinists
have been brought back into
key posts. If there is to be
stricter party discipline the
continued existence of an in-
dependent Church, with a
powerful rival claim to loyalty,
must become increasingly irk-
some. But that is not the
only issue. These riots prob-
ably also express widespread
economic and social discon-
tent.”


Odd Bulletineers
By GEOFFREY BURGOYNE (Alias "G. Elburg")
If I can make no other
claim, at least I must be
close up to The Bul-
letin’s oldest reader and
contributor among South Aus-
tralians.
I got the habit early: at the
age of 15 I would ponder
whether my sixpence would be
spent on The Bully or on an
Ounce of pipe-tobacco. Yes,
sixpence would buy an ounce
of the best American weed, or
the pink-covered national
weekly. I was an addict in
both cases, and the coin went
usually to the paper.
Of course, I would not be
so lacking in sense of propor-
tion as to mention myself with
the writers and artists whose
fame in the fields of literature
and art was, and is, owed so
largely to the practical en-
couragement of Archibald,
Edmond, Stephens and their
successors in The Bulletin
editorial chairs.
I was among the small fry:
a few short-stories, one achiev-
ing a Christmas number, an-
other the old “Lone Hand”;
and a mass of paragraphs in
the “Society,” “Poverty Point”
and “Political” columns.
Now, about 60 years later,
I can recapture the thrill of
my first cheque for a short-
story and my misgiving as to
the possibility of a picture of
Micawber and a sovereign-
spilling cornucopia being
changeable at a bank for real
money.
I don’t quite know why, but
I was always shy about my
writing: only my close friends
knew that the pen-names, “G.
Elburg” (a contraction of
initial and surname), “Impy Q”
and '“Pious Pagan,” disguised
the identity of Geoff Burgoyne,
undergoing a period of Civil
Servitude. I do know why [
switched from short-stories to
pars. The former were dashed
hard work; paragraphs com-
paratively easy if one had the
knack of it according to Bul-
letin ideas.
Besides, my lunch-hour was
from noon to one, and when
my boss was stoking-up in the
succeeding hour I was free for
my unlawful occasions. I con-
fess that the paragraphs ad-
dressed to “The Editor, The
Bulletin” were written in her
Majesty’s time, with pen, ink
and paper similarly the rightful
property of the Crown. I did
pay the postage.
Tt had been my dream to see
where The Bully had its
being, and perhaps to make my
respectful bow to those who
said yea or nay to my offerings.
Eventually the dream became
reality. I had saved-up my
pars; had ’em neatly dated and
paged. It was a pleasant in-
troduction. The accountant, a
kindly chap, seemed as glad to
hand over the dough as I was
to take it; and something over
£8 was then more than pepper-
corn.
A diffident suggestion that it
might be possible for me briefly
to pay my respects to the editor;
and my first sight of Jimmy
Edmond at a littered desk, in
shirt-sleeves and green eye-
shade.
To my delight he knew
about the contributions of “G.
Elburg” and was kind about
them. He handed me over to
Frank Fox, then his assistant-
editor and later founder and
editor of the “Lone Hand.”
No two men could have been
more unlike. Edmond would
not have run into a place in
any beauty competition, and he
would have made that arbiter
of male dress - fashion the
“Tailor and Cutter” writhe in
anguish. Fox was delicately
handsome and immaculate in
dress. Somehow he didn't
seem to quite fit in The Bul-
letin atmosphere.
Fox became a fervent Im-
perialist, and after leaving
Sydney for London was
knighted; but knights remained
“misters” in George Street
North. However, there was no
side about Frank Fox. He took
me to lunch at Pfahlerts, and I
thought the grilled fillet steak
with oysters, followed by cheese
and a half-pint of Bass, the
most delectable meal I had ever
had.
“Hop” joined us for coffee,
and to illustrate a point in a
discussion with Fox he made a
quick sketch in pencil on the
marble table-top. When I sug-
gested taking the marble for a
souvenir “Hop” smilingly
rubbed out his sketch.
TThat, my first venture beyond
the borders of my native
State, as a youngster of 22, was
highlighted by my meeting the
gods of the paper which, in my
opinion, stood at the head of
the field; the rest nowhere.
Although South Australian-
born and a resident of the
Holy City, I never was a true
holy citizen. Its smugness and
Shintoism at the time irked me,
and I found the atmosphere of
Sydney refreshing and excit-
ing. It became my Mecca and
The Bulletin the magnet.
I met A. G. Stephens, then
the “Red Pagan,” and got to
know him later when he
launched-out as a publisher on
his own account. He was
wonderfully kind, and among
things for which I was par-
ticularly grateful was the in-
troduction to young Norman
Lindsay. By the way, Frank
Fox was trying to make a
horseman of Norman, with
what success I don’t know.
Other Bulletineers I recall
were Bertram Stevens, Arthur
Adams, Randolph Bedford,
blue-eyed poet Roderick Quinn,
David McKee Wright, Mick
Paul and Henry Lawson.
The three last - mentioned
were in a group in a pub near
the “Worker” office on a Friday
after the ghost had walked.
When I was introduced to
Lawson he said, “How are
you? Mine’s a rum. It always
costs a rum to meet Henry
Lawson.” I said this meeting
would be an exception. This,
my first and last sight of the
famous Australian writer,
saddened me.
Incidentally, I wonder what
some of the old-timers of The
Bulletin family would have
said if invited to have a cup
or two of tea. I have taken
part in this bohea-binge with-
out damage to my internal
economy, if without noticeable
exhilaration.
CJpeaking of binges, a space
of 50 years has hardly
dimmed my memory of one
which was unpremeditated:
the others in it were Claude
Marquet, cartoonist of the


West he was transferred back
to Victoria as Deputy Chief
of Staff to Lieut.-General Sir
Sydney F. Rowell. Within the
year he was made Adjutant-
General, which brought with
it an automatic appointment
as the Second Military Mem-
ber of the Military Board.
With the retirement from
the Army of Lieut.-General
Sir Horace Robertson in 1954,
Garrett received a further
promotion to fill the post, as
G.O.C. Southern Command,
vacated by his old comrade
of Kure days.
Over the next few years the
compulsory retirement of
generals at 60 years of age
cleared the way for Garrett’s
accession to the top job. In
March, 1958, the date on which
Lieut. - General Sir Henry
Wells’s retirement fell due,
Garrett was appointed Chief
of the Australian General
Staff. The Westralian school-
boy who hadn’t liked Latin
had' reached the top of his
profession.
IT'nighted in the Queen’s
New Year Honors the
following year, Garrett had a
two-year expectation of ser-
vice as Chief of the General
Staff. As events were to prove,
however, he was to enjoy the
rare distinction of being per-
mitted to soldier on beyond
retiring age.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment, after years of indecision
as to how its Army might fit
into the pattern of a nuclear
war, and encouraged by what
its more imaginative potential
allies were doing, finally
decided that bold measures
were called for.
It ordered Garrett to draw-
up the blueprint of an Army
that would meet the changing
needs of the changing times.
Garrett applied himself to
this momentous task with the
cool detachment of a tactician
evaluating a set-piece opera-
tion. He set-up a study-
group and directed its energies
for the best part of 12 months
before he formulated his plan
and submitted it to Cabinet,
which has since made its
details known.
The disbandment of National
Service Training, the emascu-
lation of the C.M.F., the dis-
appearance from the order of
battle of proud regiments
whose traditions were hard-
won on the battlefields of two
world wars, were ruthless and
drastic decisions and must
have come hard to an old
soldier who grew up with the
old traditions.
Garrett, who had been given
leave to serve beyond retiring
age to fashion a new Army,
had destroyed an older one in
the process—the one he knew
and in the service of which
he had dedicated his life. It
took a great deal of courage,
the type a serviceman will
best understand, but nowhere
in his long and distinguished
career had he shown he lacked
that commodity.
TlZhen Sir Douglas Copland
* * retired as principal of
the Australian Administrative
Staff College, Melbourne,
early this year, its trustees had
no hesitation in offering
Garrett the job, and were even
prepared to wait until his
business with the Army was
finished.
With this college providing,
for young executives of public
and private enterprise, a course
of studies in the principles
and problems of organisation
and administration, and
research in administration,
Garrett will now bring to his
duties the high qualities of
leadership and administrative
talents that have characterised
his 42 years of soldiering.
Garrett will take-over his
new duties this week, on
July 1. On that day the new
order of battle will come into
effect. Some will see the
poetic implications of Aus-
tralia’s number-one soldier,
architect of its new Army,
departing on that note —at the
death of one military era and
the birth of another.
“W or k e r,” and poet Rod
Quinn.
I repeat, unpremeditated. It
was to have been some rock-
fishing with Marquet at La
Perouse; and I had to make
an early start from Manly to
meet him somewhere in Dar-
linghurst. I met him on time.
He had Rod with him, looking
a bit the worse for wear. Fish-
ing was off; too much wind;
but Mrs. Marquet was going to
fix a hamper and we were to
make it a picnic. First, how-
ever, there was a camera to be
picked-up in the city.
H ’m! At 11-o’clock I was
no nearer La Perouse and had
caught 11 whisky-and-sodas,
Quinn the same number of
rum-and-ginger-ales, and Mar-
quet a cautious consumption of
beer. This was well enough. I
could cope reasonably with
the Demon: it was the vagaries
of the poet that worried me.
Quinn developed a martial
mood. Suddenly he would halt
in the middle of the footpath
and declaim with appropriate
gesticulation. Soon a consider-
able audience would encircle
us, to my acute embarrassment.
Such an occasion had never
arisen in Adelaide: it couldn’t.
Then the poet discovered I
had d fferent-colored eyes. This
intrigued him. He exhibited
me to the several barmaids
with the pride of a freak show-
man and invited the ladies to
tell him what they thought
this oddity portended. I don’t
think they had any theories:
if they had I have forgotten
them.
Eventually we brought-up at
the “Worker” office. The poet
sat on a form and went to
sleep. Mumbling my thanks to
Marquet for the fishing, I went
quietly past the slumbering
poet, and trammed and ferried
to Manly, to be healed by the
caress of a gentle surf.
There was a sad sequel to
this proposed excursion. Mar-
quet was a keen rock-fisher-
man —a hazardous hobby. One
day one of those 7th (?) or 11th
(?) waves which rise like a
wall from a flat sea swept down
on him and, receding, carried
him away. An immediately
following wave put him back,
and he was able to hang on.
This would have been enough
for most men; but a year or so
later Marquet challenged fate
again. This time there was no
succoring second wave.
A nother in the list of these
well - remembered, Ran-
dolph Bedford was a character;
fiercely moustached and blue-
eyed, but essentially a kindly
chap. I had a mild pub-crawl
with him and—believe it or
not —Randolph drank ginger-
ale. He was on the wagon.
Arthur Adams had written his
“Double-bed Dialogues,” and
I remember what Randolph
called them; but I can’t tell in
a respectable paper.
Another dalliance with the
Demon I owed to A. G.
Stephens, then publishing the
“Bookfellow” or the “Austra-
lian,” I forget which. He had
asked me to have dinner with
him. He was immersed in his
work, and it was late when we
set out for an Italian wineshop
which also offered the food of
Jtaly for a limited clientele.
When we arrived a few
Italians were playing dominoes
in a latticed-in annexe of the
wineshop. We were late, and
dinner was off, to the regret of
Giuseppe, the proprietor, who
greeted A.G. with delight as a
long-missed patron and friend.
No food ... But did Giuseppe
remember a wine which A.G.
had esteemed highly?
Yes, he thought so, and lifted
a trapdoor, to disappear down
into the cellar, returning with
a- beer-bottle into which the
wine had been decanted from
bulk.
We drank it. Yes, a pleasant
wine, said Stephens, but not
quite what he had in mind.
Down went Giuseppe again, to
bring up another bottle. We
drank that, too; but it was
wider of the mark. Another
try. This was not at all like
the object of the quest. How-
ever, we drank that also, and
it was decided to abandon the
search.
Then Giuseppe invited us to
join him in some vermouth. It
was the sweet Italian variety
and was served in goblets. I
thought it up to me: another
round of goblets; then depar-
ture in search of solids. The
cafe I vaguely remember as
being somewhere in George
Street; it provided a really
menacing quantity of food for
Is. 6d. Our servitor was a coal-
black gent. I managed about
half of a gargantuan crumbed-
cutlet and fancied I heard each
mouthful splash.
It was late when we left.
A.G. lived at Chatswood, and
I accompanied him to the
Quay. This was, of course,
long before the Bridge, and,
there being some time to wait
for the ferry, A.G. suggested
coffee. Did I play chess?
Well, I had, a long time ago.
When the men were set up
there appeared to me to be a
veritable forest of pawns and
the more important pieces to
be in duplicate. A.G. soon
polished me off; but, concen-
tration having brought back
the chessmen to the numbers
in the book, I made a good
fight of the second game, which
was unfinished when Stephens
had to scurry for the last ferry.
Those were good times.
Sydney a friendly, not over-
populated city, and the writer
and artist chaps kindness itself
to a young visitor who did a
bit himself. Now, in my old
age (yes, dammit!) I have
affectionate memories of The
Bulletin and The Bulletin-
eers of my comparative youth.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Wrought-iron Art
Has “H.J.S.” (B. 15/6/;60)
ever seen a wrought-iron pipe*
rack?
I’m asking because in the
last par. of his excellent
evaluation of wrought-iron as
against cast-iron he observes:
“Comparing cast-iron work
with present-day wrought-iron,
it seems we have made no
progress in artistic design or
workmanship from the early
days.”
I have in my home several
fine hand-wrought iron-pieces,
all the work of a Sydney
craftsman named Bob Green-
wood-Webb, which go a long
way towards debunking that
par. One piece is a pipe-rack
which, for artistic design and
workmanship, must be unique
in wrought-iron work any-
where in the world. It’s in
the shape of a small tree-
branch, twisted to hold six
pipes, and with 14 delicately
proportioned leaves symmetri-
cally poised, each from its own
tiny twig.
I particularly mention the
pipe-rack since it is a fair
specimen of Greenwood-
Webb’s - creative and highly-
skilled work, which, despite
“everything geared to mass-
production,” can be found in
scores of N.S.W. homes and
business-premises, including
two or three Sydney pubs.
Admittedly, craftsmen of
Greenwood-Webb’s calibre are
a dying race, though it’s some
consolation to know that he
always keeps one or two
apprentices employed in the
forge-studio at his Lane Cove
(Sydney) home.
An Englishman who came
to Australia in 1929, Green-
wood-Webb talks like the
master-craftsman he is —as
when I was in conversation
with him a while back: “What
the public knows as wrought-
iron is only rolled - steel
bars, electrically-welded to-
gether and usually mass-
produced That’s the
machine-age for you. Yet,
paradoxically, it has created
a new demand for the very
handicraft it is steadily but
surely eliminating.”
Next time you’re in Sydney,
“H.J.5.,” look him up. He
lives near the Fig Tree Bridge.
You’ll know his place by the
life-size wedgetailed eagle —
every “feather” beaten-out in
bronze —perched on the front-
gate. — Frank Snow (N.S.W.).
Goulburn Booms
Goulburn (N.S.W.) is one
city likely to experience an
even greater degree of decen-
tralisation (B. 15/6/ ’6O).
Because of wool-sale develop-
ments, the town is booming,
possibly more than any other
city of its size in Australia.
Three big wool-stores are
going up, to make a total of
four; allied undertakings are
being established to join a
rapidly expanding municipal
abattoirs and a clothing-
factory as well as many smaller
enterprises.
Industry is bound to go to
the district when such activity
is apparent, especially as
Goulburn fis strategically
situated to supply such excel-
lent markets as Sydney, Can-
berra and the Snowy Moun-
tains centres.
Any further industrial
development will mean an
increase in Goulburn’s popu-
lation. Out of a total of
21,000, only five Goulburn
people were registered as
unemployed at mid-June —and
the wool-stores alone were
seeking more than 100
employees.
Appointment of a firm of
management - consultants to
survey the industrial potential
of the town, as mentioned by
“Keima,” is an excellent move,
and at this stage it is safe
to predict that the report will
be entirely satisfactory.—
James Mahoney (N.S.W.),
Bureaucracy and the Press
We live in an age of bureau-
cracy, and the only real curb
to it is the press. In N.S.W.
we have the spectacle of one of
the largest local authorities
doing all its business in com-
mittee. Its meetings as such
exist simply to minute what has
already been done. The clerk
to this council recently boasted
that he handles over £1 million
of public money a year; but,
except for the seven members
of the council and the staff, not
a-soul knows how or why it is
spent.
“Hey, Mum, 100k —I Won that monster competition !”
Challenged at a local Pro-
gress Association meeting in
this same district recently, the
deputy-president rather lamely
remarked: “We have more
freedom of discussion if the
press isn’t there!’’
N.S.W. Opposition - leader
Askin will be doing a real ser-
vice to the community if he
puts in the forefront of his
policy for the next State elec-
tion an undertaking to amend
the Local Government Act to
provide that all committee
meetings shall be open to the
press save those where the
matter of a new staff appoint-
ment is to be considered. When
all's said and done, aldermen
and shire-councillors are only
trustees for their ratepayers’
money, and when they ask rate-
payers to pay up to £lO an acre
in rates on farmland (as they
do in at least one area) it is
only reasonable that the per-
sons who find the cash should
be given through the press all
information as to why the
money is needed, and that the
arguments advanced and the
relevant objections be given
adequate publicity. At present
they are not.
Local-government has played
a dominant part in the develop-
ment of freedom in Britain and
the English-speaking countries.
If the press is to be excluded
from council meetings, accept-
ance of that condition is going
to strike a blow at the very
foundations of our democratic
way of life. It might suit places
like Russia and Ghana, but it is
opposed to all the traditions
Australia has inherited.
Surely aldermen and shire-
councillois are not so lacking
in moral courage as to object
to what they say on matters of
public interest being reported
in the press? If they are, then
it is time for the responsible
Minister to take action. —D. C.
Tjlghman (N.S.W.).
Highway Improvements
It is difficult to follow the
reasoning of the N.S.W. Main
Roads Department where two
highways are concerned.
The Hume Highway, which
carries traffic from Sydney to
Canberra, the boom-town of
Goulburn, Cooma and the
Snowy Mountains project as
well as to Melbourne and Ade-
laide, is narrow and winding,
but little is being done to
improve it.
Day and night the Hume
throbs with traffic: big
freighter-transports, cars, buses
—all kinds of motor-transport
—running both ways. Traffic
hazards are numerous because


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
of the narrow road and the
many miles of winding route
over the ranges and hills.
Meanwhile hundreds of
thousands of pounds are being
spent on improvements to the
Great Western Highway—par-
ticularly over the Blue Moun-
tains —on which, for much of
the day, there is comparatively
little traffic.
Why not do the work where
it is most needed? — James
Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Cooktown
Triumph in the Tropics, the
book edited by Sir Raphael
Cilento and Clem Lack, snr.,
is a most interesting compila-
tion. Published for Queens-
land’s Centenary Year (1959)
as an historical sketch of that
State, it is marred by some
curious historical errors.
Catherine of Braganza is
referred to as the wife of a son
of James I. In point of fact,
she married a grandson of
James I, being the wife of
Charles II
Cooktown is said to have
been, in its golden age, an
opulent city with a population
of 40,000. Why should two
scholars of the competence of
Cilento and Lack reiterate this
hoary myth? After a visit to
Cooktown in 1932 I made ex-
haustive searches into popula-
tion figures. My information
—obtained from old Court
House records in Cooktown,
checked by the statistician and
confirmed by the late General
Spencer Brown e —was that
Cooktown’s population never
exceeded 3500, with a floating
population on the Palmer and
in the back-country of around
20,000.
Nor was there any evidence
locally of the demolition of
many thousands of buildings
and removal elsewhere, such
as existed at Charters Towers.
In its heyday Cooktown
boasted only four banks —the
Q.N., the ’Wales, A.J.S. and
North Q. Even Normanton
and Croydon had five each at
one time.
In 1933 I published a hand-
book for the Queensland Gov-
ernment, and was given access
to all old records. Officials of
all departments were most co-
operative, and I personally
checked dates of town-surveys,
population statistics, etc. I
know that in the 'seventies and
’eighties of last century
Cooktown was a flourishing
port. But it never grew to the
size of Townsville today, nor
of Charters Towers in the
’nineties.
However, Cilento and Lack
have collected an enormous
amount of data, some of it of
much value and all of it of in-
terest. No industries ever com-
menced in Cooktown itself;
there were no foundries, no
breweries, no tanneries. There
were a number of saddlers and
harness-makers, engaged mostly
in repair-work, a local news-
paper, and, I believe, a cordial-
factory of sorts with the usual
butchers, bakers, general-stores,
etc. All requirements were
“Postmen still on strike ?”
brought from southern ports,
and Cooktown itself was simply
a distributing depot. A few
farms opened up, growing fruit
and some vegetables. The major
local “industry” was catering
for the thirst of Palmer diggers,
and hotelkeeping did boom for
a time.
I believe the old port has a
future. It badly needs all-
weather communication by
road or rail with Cairns. That’s
the prime essential ; the next is
the opening-up of the Mclvor
River scrub, a tract of rich
basaltic soil which would
provide a couple of hundred
good farms, given access and a
local market. The climate is
as good as any in Australia,
with a most reliable rainfall.—
T.C.D. (Q.).
Inflated Land Values
That warning on inflated
land-values (B. 15/6/’6O) is
timely. In the opinion of many
the position is getting out of
hand, and no real assessment is
being made of possible reper-
cussions.
The genuine home-builder
and -buyer usually finds that
about one-third of the cost of
his home is represented by cost
of land. Speculators are to a
considerable degree responsible
for this state of affairs.
Large organisations and
private persons are buying
business-sites at uneconomic
figures. This may suit insur-
ance - companies, chain - stores
and the like, as they can afford
to wait for a return ; but a
false price is thus created
(Valuer-General’s figures are
often based on such sales).
Spec, operators are also build-
ing shops, offices, etc., with a
view to securing key-money
from tenants, but this form of
enrichment is growing thin.
Rural-land prices are too
high, boom values being
created by city buyers. As a
bank-manager I know that
quite a number of “city
farmers” who have bought
high-priced agricultural land
are now licking their wounds.
All this adds-up to an un-
happy situation; and it could
lead to a drop in values with
disastrous results.
It must also be remembered
that some councils, both city
and country, have saddled their
areas with many grandiose
schemes that could become
a terrific burden to the rate-
payer in the event of a decline
in revenues. Real-estate carries
all kinds of fixed outgoings and
incidentals which are ever on
the increase. Finally, in some
way or other inflated land-
values must increase general
costs to the public.
Land-booms since the open-
ing-up of Australia have led
to severe losses; the present
boom is following a familiar
pattern and could do a lot of
harm to our economy and to
many well-deserving people.—
CB.M. (Vic.).
New Zealand Attitudes
David Ausubel’s The Fern
and the Tiki contains sufficient
provocation for many wintry
discussions.
If, as “R.A.S.” maintains
(B. 25/5/’6O), State schools in
a democracy must reflect social
change and not initiate it, then
it’s a poor lookout for the
rising generation in New
Zealand. There, a good second-
ary-school master is greatly
hampered by his syllabus and
the mode of operation of the
school. If these were changed
the personalities of the students
would benefit. Their schools
would be livelier and more in
touch with the society develop-
ing around them.
It is this aspect of education
rather than the importation of
alien ideologies that I think
Ausubel means. He. dias no
quarrel with the N.Z. primary
schools, but the magic wand of
the recently retired Director of
Education ceased to work after
he had completed their trans-
formation.
It is perhaps a matter of
channelling abilities. In second-
ary schools there’s unnecessary
frustration which would easily
yield to intelligent leadership ;
but such leadership would have
to be given enough opportunity
to create something both posi-
tive and vital. I can’t agree
that schools should be passive ;


it is one of their tasks to initiate
social change through the
development of personality. I
don’t think Ausubel’s ideas in
this respect could be considered
dangerous.
When he says that N.Z. needs
an Ausubel of its own, Pat
Lawlor (B. 1/ 6 / ’6O) goes to the
heart of the matter. Novelists
can fulfil this function, but
New Zealand still lacks this
kind of approach.
I suspect that N.Z. has also
conveniently turned aside many
of her potential Ausubels. Some
are using their abilities in other
parts of the world, and those
who have tentatively begun
such work within the country
have too often lacked perspec-
tive or been unable to transcend
their own. anger.
There are probably others
who have been persecuted for
non-conformism, for N.Z. has
subtle and most vindictive ways
of disapproval. Personal feuds
are magnified to cosmic pro-
portions, and that most valu-
able possession the human
personality is only too often
effectively maimed by tech-
niques of evasion, deprecation
and disinterest.
Undoubtedly a New Zea-
lander will some day be able
to criticise and lay bare his
own country with skill and
humanity. One can only hope
that it will happen before the
disintegration of values so
clearly taking place in Auck-
land has spread over the whole
country and obliterated what
remains of that elusive thing
“So I said to Dad — Orright, if YOU don't buy it for me,
there's always Mr. K.!"
the New Zealand character. —
J. M. Thomson (N.S.W.).
Room at the Games
Rome is certainly going the
wrong way about attracting
tourists for the next Olympic
Games.
In the latest bulletin issued
by the organising committee
it is made clear that prefer-
ence will be given to young
tourists rathej than elderly
people, the reason being that
the Games are principally a
festivity for young sportsmen.
What a poor outlook this
is for such a great occasion!
In every sport young people
provide the entertainment;
but older people also help to
provide large crowds.
Apparently, despite alarming
reports, there’s still a lot of
accommodation available. The
report states that 111,000 beds
have been made available to
visitors. Of these, 40,000 —
13,000 in camping-grounds—
are still available. The figure
of 111,000 beds is considerably
higher than that offered in
Helsinki or Melbourne.
Athletes also will be better
treated than ever before. They
will stay in the beautiful vil-
lage, have sewing - machines
placed at their disposal and
trained personnel to operate
them. A Rome firm has agreed
to supply domestic equipment
including electric-irons, wash-
ing-machines, vacuum-cleaners
and electric-polishers.
All in all, a happy outlook
for the athletes chosen to
represent their countries ; but
for those developing a spread-
ing midriff and grey hair a
dismal thought that they may
be prevented from watching
the greatest sporting spectacle
yet invented.— Alan Schwab
'(N.S.W.).
Censorship
A system of literary censor-
ship that is not open to abuse
is admittedly difficult to devise,
but that is no argument in
favor of doing without censor-
ship.
People equally well qualified
to voice opinion as to whether
a book is obscene or not may
differ radically ; nevertheless
there are publications that are
undeniably obscene and lack
literary, merit into the bargain.
If these are allowed to circu-
late freely their influence may
prove deleterious, especially
among the young and the less-
intelligent mature. There is
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 597
Across
I—Who1 —Who can paint the keynote sounded by a campanolo-
gist? (6)
4 —Mclmpri. (8)
9—Kerelson. (8)
10 —Horses shod by such wild horses. (6)
13 — McCapari. (9)
14 — Ronson in 23-across? (5)
15— This makes one poisoner
totter. (5)
17 —Cemetery crow in “Macbeth”
makes wing to the last part
containing the first part. (8)
20 — Wildly slew a whole country. (8)
21— Arabic Joseph. (5)
23 —Disturbed weals where Taffies
live. (5)
25 — Determining the composition for
a Khan to chant. (9)
26 — Hurt a burrower, by the way. (6)
28—Honor an angle which is right
by mother and a field o£
blood. (8)
30 — And colts are running wild
where the clues for 4-across,
9-across and 13-across would be
readily understood. (8)
31 — Communist associated with you
coppers is freshly tinted. (6)
Down
1— Ike may be the apple of
America’s eye —but he’s not this
apple. (8)
2 Ladep to check speed. (9)
3 What Washington never told
Trygve. (3)
5 Father’s step. (3)
6 Control the course consisting
of beef. (5)
7 Detecting a number to render
in the Caruso manner. (6)
8 — European girl and an Asian. (11)
11 — Chief method to make pro-
gress. (7)
12— Linen to race, (anagram) (11)
16 — Sister’s molested, but puts-up a
fight. (7)
18— Acobsty. (9)
19- —How one may be caught in a
cricket-match against the rail-
ways? (3-5)
22—Inter-State parliamentarian in
steamer marshes. (6)
24—Stand sloppily with nothing but
Gina. (5)
27—Give the Maori a drink. (3)
29 —Fish upset the sheltered side. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 596


Missing Friend
ANY person knowing the whereabouts
of ALBERT ATHOL JONES, formerly of
27 Kerferd Street, Coburg, please com-
municate with W. E. PEARCEY &
IVEY, 90 William Street, Melbourne,
60-1161.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSULUVAty
CL PTYLTtt 1
TRAOt W"* M*RK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & C«.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS St OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYFH
OPERATORS
STEEL St COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
University Quotas
Tell “W ussl e a n” (B.
l/6/'6O) that there has always
been a quota-system for
universities.
Formerly it operated as a
standard of secondary-school
academic achievement which
indicated, fairly accurately,
academic preparedness for the
demands of a university-
course. However, the present-
day spoon - fed, mentally-
suppressed product of
secondary - schools satisfies
secondary requirements at a
much lower academic level ;
the process of lowering uni-
versity standards to coincide
is trailing, and the short-cut
solution has been for univer-
sities to impose a quota-
system of their own.
This is the true basic reason
for the high percentage of
failures in university-courses.
Essential attitudes to respon-
sibility also are frequently
lacking at this stage. Attitudes
deteriorate very rapidly in
contradictory circumstances
demanding worth-while aca-
demic goals on the one hand,
unsupported by any real
insistence on their achieve-
ment on the other.
Regarding “W.’s” remarks
supporting the idea of new
buildings and additional staff
for universities, there would
appear to be a false analogy
here with conditions at second-
ary and primary levels,
where no quota-systems apply:
it would in fact only serve to
hasten the lowering of uni-
versity standards by forcing
them to accept more of what
they already do not want.
While I am against the con-
cept of a quota-system in
anything, it is nevertheless
justified as a compromise in
circumstances where a gulf is
allowed to exist in standards
between secondary and ter-
tiary requirements.
In general terms, if an
education has not produced
self-reliance based on the
ability to think and act intel-
ligently it has failed. It should
be a sharp lesson to us that
the Red Chinese have already
shown an awareness of the
importance of this in their
treatment of Western prisoners-
of-war—particularly American
—in Korea.— Luke (N.S.W.).
Caravan Parks
Many country centres are
waking-up to their potential
attractions for tourists and
are taking action to draw
visitors with money to spend
“Just a quarter-of-a-pound of steak will do.”
—but publicity alone will not
do the job. Tourists must be
able to take advantage of cer-
tain amenities, and at reason-
able prices.
One of the most important,
in this motor age, is a good
caravan-park and camping-
area. More and more people
are taking caravan holidays,
but they like clean surround-
ings to camp in, with laundry
facilities at least. A caravan-
park without sewerage or a
septic-system will be passed
over by most caravanners.
Some so-called caravan-
parks and camping-areas have
disgustingly dirty bath- and
shower-rooms, laundries and
lavatories. Caravanners who
have been to these before give
them a wide berth —and pass
the word along to others. —
Sam Square (S.A.).
Going Where in N.G.?
It seems that both Australia
and Holland are going to
accelerate the process they
describe as preparing the native
peoples of their sections of
New Guinea for self-govern-
ment. Mr. Menzies has been
persuaded by the logic of
world events that speed is
necessary, even if he would still
prefer the Hasluck estimate of
30 years. (Mr. Hasluck was
lately reported to have pro-
tested in vain in The Hague
against the Dutch policy, but
presumably now agrees with
Mr. Menzies.)
There is still no timetable,
although the Dutch have hinted
that their trained elite will
reach a substantial number
within 10 years.
If this means that within a
decade certain proportions of
the native people in both halves
of the island are to vote on the
future political destiny of the
whole of New Guinea, then it
is time Australians were told
what the Australian and Dutch
Governments hope or fear may
result.
Has any list of alternative
destinies been prepared, and
what steps are to be taken to
allow free and unprejudiced
judgment to be exercised by
the native voters of New
Guinea in 1970 or thereabouts?
Presumably, Australia would
not agree to accept New Guinea
as a seventh State. Are we
accepting the idea of a “Mela-
nesian Union” (B. 22/6/’60)?
If so, how do we propose to
stabilise its economics, estab-
lish its industries and ensure it
is able to defend itself? (I do
not belong to the school which
thinks that New Guinea retains
much defence importance for
Australia. If we’re going to be
attacked in the future it won’t
be across the Owen Stanleys but
from the Pacific or Indian
oceans or from Antarctica.)
Do we want New Guinea to
become another new member
of the Commonwealth of
Nations; do we support the
idea of joint control with Hol-
land and a couple of Asian
nations (which ones?); or do
we contemplate it becoming a
province of Indonesia? How
will we feel if the electors vote
to join the Communist bloc?
If the promises we are now
making are then honored, the
decision will remain solely
with the New Guineans who
have been subjected to Austra-
lian and Dutch education. But
will we have allowed all the
alternatives to be presented,
with an objective survey of all
advantages and disadvantages?
It is of crucial importance
that we should know at least
what the two Governments
now in control propose to do,
and how.— Charles Meeking
(N.S.W.).
particular danger of this hap-
pening today through deliberate
popularisation by means of
lavish and skilful advertising.
Freedom of speech or of
literary expression doesn’t mean
absolute licence ; no Govern-
ment, however broadminded or.
tolerant, could allow that
Freedom to criticise persons is
limited by the law of libel* ex-
cept for the privilege of Par-
liament. Even then, a legisla-
ture with any sense of respon-
sibility will expel a member
who abuses that privilege by
mendacious attacks on indivi-
duals under cover of it. —
Cunedda (N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
TRANSPORT IN THE CHANNEL COUNTRY
From J. H. KELLY
Situated in the south-west
corner of Queensland, the
Channel Country includes the
flood-plains of four river-
systems Georgina, Diaman-
tina, Cooper and Bulloo.
When the rivers are in flood
their systems form a lacework
of natural irrigation, unique
in Australia and probably in
the world.
When the floodwaters drain
away they leave an abundance
of nutritious grazing which
could hardly be excelled by
native pasture anywhere in
Australia.
In times of drought, such
as at present, the country out-
side the flood-areas becomes
a barren waste in which few
cattle survive. During the 100
years this area has been occu-
pied by cattlemen the develop-
ment of its beef-resources has
been bedevilled by disastrous
stock - losses in crippling
droughts. Not infrequently
it becomes drought-stricken
when seasonal conditions are
It is noted that a fund
of 60,000 dollars has
been made available to
scientists from the
University of California
to study the disease of
epididymitis in rams,
and the research is
expected to take at
least three years.
Noteworthy also, are
the number of satis-
fied graziers who use
Elastrator, the humane
method of Castrating
and Tailing. With
Elastrator, there are no
open wounds to har-
bour infections, thus
lessening any risk of
fly-strike or setback.
normal in other parts of Aus-
tralia. It is a low-rainfall
zone—sin. to 9in. —and largely
dependent on floods, which
are irregular and unpredict-
able.
Probably the best period in
the Channel Country’s history
was from 1949 to 1956, when
there was a combination of
good floods, reasonable rain-
fall, and fair cattle-prices. But
most of the benefits of this
combination have been dissi-
pated in the drought-losses of
the last five years. With a
possibility of worse to come,
this drought could —-indeed
probably will —end in the
worst smash in the history of
the region.
If, as has been freely
asserted, the number of cattle
lost in this drought substan-
tially exceeds 100,000 head to
date, at a value of £3O a head,
the loss would amount to over
£3 million.
It is not only such loss to
the cattlemen that counts, but
also the loss to the national
economy. Beef is now in the
top bracket as an export-
income earner, and the f.o.b.
value of every Channel
Country carcass today would
be not less than £4O. Inevit-
ably, Australia will suffer a
heavy loss in beef-export
income in the immediate
future and a reduced contri-
bution of Channel Country
beef to the domestic trade
while cattle - numbers are
recovering there. It is tragic
to think that most of the
present and past drought-losses
could have been avoided if
adequate transport had been
available.
All cattlemen in the area
agree on two cardinal points:
first, that the best use of the
grazing there is for fattening
good - quality young store
males bred in outside areas ;
secondly, that this purpose can
only be achieved with econo-
mic transport inward of store
cattle and outward of fat
cattle and, of course, of
unfinished cattle to relief areas
in drought-time.
Topography
The Channel Country is
bounded on the north by a
line running east and west
from where the Pituri crosses
the Northern Territory-
Queensland border to Colling-
wood via the junction of the
Burke and the Wills; on the
east by a line running south
from Collingwood to Thargo-
mindah ; on the south by a
line running west via Naryilco
to Lake Kopperamanna
(S.A.); and on the west by
a line running north to the
extreme south-western corner
of Queensland and thence via
the Northern Territory border
to the Pituri.
The total Queensland area
within these borders is approxi-
mately 117,000 square-miles;
the South Australian area is
about 30,000 square-miles.
An investigation made in the
1940 s by Queensland Govern-
ment officials showed that at*
full flood the area inundated
W'ould be about 10-million
acres (15,000 square-miles).
The flood-area constitutes the
Channel Country proper ; the
remainder is commonly
referred to as “off-channel”
country.
The Cooper, this region's
most important stream, rises,
as Torrens Creek, about 30
miles north of Torrens CreeL
Siding (Townsville-Cloncurry
line) on the western slope of
the Divide. As it flows south
it embraces the Thompson and
Barcoo Rivers and ends its
course as Cooper’s Creek,
flowing into Lake Eyre when
in maximum flood. From a
complex of major channels it
starts to flood-out into minor
channels around Windorah.
The flooded country is mainly
used for cattle-raising.
The Diamantina rises on
the western slope of Swords
Range, about 100 miles south-
east of Cloncurry. The flood-
out begins on Brighton Downs
station. At maximum flood
the Diamantina spreads to a
width of more than 50 miles.
The Georgina rises just
inside the Northern Territory
border, about 35 miles north-
west of Camooweal, and its
system includes the Burke,
Wills and King Creeks and the
Hamilton and Mulligan Rivers.
The Georgina breaks into
major channels below Uran-
dangi and floods-out on
Marion Downs and stations
to the south. The Georgina
pastures are excellent for
fattening.
The Bulloo is the smallest
system in the Channel Country.
It rises near the Grey Range
about 20 miles south-east of
Emmet, on the Blackall-
Yaraka railway.
The streams of the Channel
Country only run when in
flood, but good waterholes are
left after floods. Much of the
off-channel country is watered
by deep artesian bores which
are continuously flowing.
During the past 15 years there
has been considerable private
development of surface-water
supplies, which mainly con-
sist of big excavated tanks,
located on good catchments
where they can be replenished
from an inch or two of rain.
Apart from the actual
Channel Country, the land is
a mixture of grey-black
Mitchell-grass downs, red
sandy country, pebbly iron-
stone downs, gibber plains
and desert sandhills. The
sandhill, desert and gibber-
plain country, combined, is of
only limited use for cattle and
represents from 5 per cent, to
10 per cent, of the region.
With good rainfall the off-
channel country will fatten
almost as well as the lush
flooded country. With lower
than normal rainfall, but not
drought conditions, cattle will
hold on in this country at a
low carrying-rate. In severe
drought the carrying-capacity
of the off-channel country is
almost nil, cattle being
dependent for survival on the
pasture residues of the flooded
country.
It would be difficult to
estimate accurately the carry-
ing-capacity of the Channel
Country after a good flood.
Ten-million flooded acres
might carry a million head of
cattle for about six months.
With better than normal rain-
fall the off-channel country
would carry more than a
quarter of a million for a
season.
Climate
The dry climate is essen-
tially a healthy one for cattle.
Summer temperatures are high
and winters are mild. Pleuro-
pneumonia is not enzootic,
and botulism is no menace ;
cattle-tick and buffalo infesta-
tions are unknown.
Economic Land-use
The country is best suited
for fattening young store cattle
of good quality, bred else-
where. Best sources of these
store cattle are the Barkly
Tableland, the eastern part of
the Victoria River district, the
southern areas around Darwin
and the Gulf district and the
western part of Queensland’s
Gulf Country.
Where both breeding and
fattening are practised the


carrying-capacity is necessarily
at the bad-season level rather
than the good. It is vyhen this
level is exceeded with breeder-
stock and calves that the most
disastrous losses occur during
drought. This is evident after
a run of good seasons fol-
lowed by drought, when cattle-
numbers may have gone above
the safe leyel. Male cattle
withstand drought much better
than females.
About half the cattle turned-
off from the Channel Country
SUGGESTED COMMUNICATIONS FOR THE CHANNEL COUNTRY.
were bred there. The country
to the south of the Birdsville-
Betoota line is largely used
for breeding and fattening,
and will probably continue so,
as these area's are beyond the
economic distance for the
movement of stores from far-
northern breeding-areas.
Optimum use of the
fattening-resources of the
Channel Country is of great
importance in the general
pattern of developing
Northern Australia’s breeding-
and fattening-resources. An
example of this is the link-up
of Northern Territory and
Queensland Gulf breeding-
country with Channel Country
fattening-properties. This link
has been made in the hope
that the need for cattle-
transport in these remote
®,reas will eventually be recog-
nised, and that something
definite will be done about
providing it. I believe that,
with such transport, those
parts of the Channel Country
within economic distance of
the northern breeding-areas
will quickly develop as
fattening-areas, and that beef-
production in the region will
increase fourfold.
Beef-potential
Statistics from shires within
the Channel Country show
that in 1957, the year of peak
cattle-numbers, about 480,000
head were carried. Average
annual turn-off over the last
10 years has been about 50,000
head. Given adequate
transport-facilities, I estimate
the Channel Country's safe
average carrying-capacity at
450,000 head, with an average
annual turn-off of 200,000.
Transport Problems
The solution to develop-
ment of the area lies in the
contruction of key roads suit-
able for the transport of
cattle. If this is done no
problem should remain that
graziers could not solve un-
aided. If key roads are con-
structed with sealed surfaces
the Channel Country will soon
reach its true beef-potential;
otherwise, the region will con-
tinue to stagnate, periodically
crippled by drought.
There are four principal
outlets to Queensland rail-
trucking points: Dajarra,
Winton, Yaraka and Quilpie.
Winton and Quilpie are the
most important. There are
three key* cattle-transport
routes, which seem to fall into
the following priority:
Quilpie-Windorah - Currawilla-
Monkira ; Winton - Lucknow-
Boulia, and Lucknow-Coora-
bulka - Bedourie ; Winton -
Brighton Downs - Mayne
Junction.
These routes would be
mainly for the movement of
fat cattle to railhead in normal
seasons and drought-stricken
cattle in adverse seasons.
There is still a need for rapid
movement of store cattle into
the Channel Country by road-
transport, though—at least
initially—this does not call
for such a high standard of
road - construction. Good
earth-formations, with suit-
able stream crossings, would
suffice for the movement of
young store cattle in lighter
vehicles.
If the Quilpie-Monkira road
were to end at the eastern
side of the channels of the
Diamantina the length of the
suggested key roads would be
about 900 miles. Most will
agree that the Quilpie-Monkira
section is the most important.
It penetrates the central part
of the region, and in both
good and bad seasons it would
carry the greatest number of
cattle.
Both Quilpie and Winton
outlets lead to alternative
markets, and both are import-
ant in time of drought.
Quilpie provides an outlet to
the safer areas of south-east
Queensland, and Winton pro-
vides a drought-relief outlet to
Central Queensland. Winton
provides fat-cattle outlets to
Cairns, Townsville, Bowen,
Rockhampton and Gladstone ;
the principal outlets from
Quilpie are to Brisbane, Roma,
Wallangarra and Tenterfield.
Cost and Public Benefit
The Channel Country favors
low - cost road - construction.
The land is level, with no
mountains or steep grades,
and suitable for heavy road-
making equipment. Allowing
for the value of work already
done, the cost of sealing of
a well-ballasted road should
be around £lO,OOO a mile.
Total cost, therefore, might
amount to £9 million, which
may seem a large public
investment, until measured
against the undoubted benefit
which increased beef-produc-
tion would bring. From this
point of view, the cost of the
suggested key roads would be
justified as a wise national
investment.
It should be remembered
that Australia’s beef-produc-
tion rose spectacularly from
600,000 tons in 1950 to
900,000 tons in 1959. In
1960, however, it fell to near
800,000 tons; it could fall
substantially below that in the
next year or two, and recovery
would be slow.
To sum up, this is a great
and urgent national problem
which Australia can no
longer afford to ignore.
The Australian Nut
“Lawnton”: Two Americans
have lately been here on the
look-out for graft-wood from
thin - shelled Australian nut
trees (Macadamia Ternifolia)
for propagation in California,
where they hope to start grow-
ing the nut on a commercial
scale. They travelled down the
Queensland coast and on as
far as Lismore (N.S.W.), and
spent some time getting speci-
mens, which they intend to
graft on to stocks in order to


produce nuts quicker than by
planting the seed.
Americans have long recog-
nised the value of the nut,
which they rate as “the world’s
finest,” and which was first
grown in the U.S. as far back
as 1869. Roasted and packed
in glass vacuum-jars it retails
in the U.S. at 355. a pound,
being often imported from
Hawaii, where the trees are
founded on stock introduced
from Queensland and northern
N.S.W. many years ago. Hawaii
produces annually 750 tons of
the nuts, worth £200,000.
Indigenous to the coastal
strip from Maryborough to
Lismore, the Australian - nut
will succeed in almost any
locality along the coast where
frosts are not severe. It
flourishes in scrub-soil, and
does well on wooded hillsides
where the soil, though poorer,
is deep, well-drained and fairly
rich in humus.
Sow the seeds in old four-
gallon containers —two or three
in each container —and if more
than one comes-up, pull out the
weakest. When the seedlings
are 18in. high, cut out the
bottoms of the containers,
then plant-out, tins and all.
When setting them out in their
permanent positions, space the
seedlings at least 25ft. apart.
The only attention needed is
light pruning to train the trees
into shape and trimming of
branches to give about Bft. of
clear stem. Trees start to pro-
duce nuts when five or six
years old and begin to bear
heavily at 10 years. They will
produce for 50 years or even
longer, and average about
4001 b. of nuts annually.
Being evergreens with a
heavy crop of foliage, the trees
are good as windbreaks or for
giving shelter round cattleyards
and pig-pens. They are orna-
mental and look well in large
gardens Average height is
between 30ft. and 40ft., but
specimens sometimes grow to
60ft.
Nuts vary in size, some being
as big as a walnut, but most
only the size of a large marble.
The shell is so hard that it must
be cracked with a hammer or
in a vice ; but once the nut is
opened its kernel has a delicious
flavor and is rich in oil.
These last 20 years the trees
have been planted extensively
in south-east Queensland and
northern N.S.W. Growers in
Queensland get from Is. 6d. to
2s. a pound, the nuts being
generally mixed with other
kinds for the Christmas trade,
as well as being sometimes
used in making confectionery.
About 30 years ago two
growers in the Brisbane district
propagated a thin-shelled
variety, which can now be
obtained from nurserymen.
This is the variety the Ameri-
cans were looking for.
Wheat Economics
“Windy”: Investigations by
Queensland Department of
Agriculture show that the
State’s wheatfarmers earn less
than 5 per cent, on capital in-
vested in their farms.
It was found that the most
efficient profit-level for men
who grew wheat only and ran
no cattle or other livestock as
a sideline was around £l5 an
acre. Those who ran livestock
on the property and combined
this with wheat did better.
About half of these farmers
received a return equal to 5
per cent, on their capital. Men
who combined wheatgrowing
with dairyfarming did worst ;
only about 20 per cent, of these
averaged a return to capital
equal to 5 per cent.
The rate of return increased
up to an investment level of
about £30,000. After that the
return tended to diminish.
For farmers who combined
wheatgrowing with dairying,
the optimum level of invest-
ment seemed to be around
£25,000. On the majority of
mixed farms wheat brought in
most of the income, whether
the farms were running sheep
or cattle in conjunction with
the grain. It was different on
grain-dairyfarms, where grain
in the form of wheat just held
its own in importance with
butter or milk.
From this survey it is notice-
able that factors which increase
income are more important
than those which reduce costs.
Cultivation-patterns on pre-
dominately agricultural farms
are more-or-less standardised at
a reasonable level of efficiency.
Because of this there is little
scope for reducing costs. Choice
of crops is the most important
decision on these farms, be-
cause it is possible to increase
income more by better selec-
tion of crops than by any
other means.
Commenting on the result of
the survey, the president of the
Queensland Grain Growers’
Association remarked that the
present guaranteed price of
14s. lOd. a bushel did not
allow growers a return compar-
able to those received from
other sources. Mixed farming
helps to spread the risks and
livestock maintain fertility
which is important to ensure
the quality of grain that buyers
look for.
Herd-testing
“W.W.”: You can get a lot
of information from the herd-
tester, beyond how much milk
each cow gives or what it tests.
As there is generally more
milk in the morning than at
the evening milking, a greater
amount of milk in the evening
may indicate that the machines
were not doing their job that
morning. It may pay to give
them a check : over.
Low fat-tests may indicate
that something is wrong with
the way the cows are stripping-
out. The vacuum-relief valve
may need cleaning. The infla-
tions may need tightening. If
only one or two cows are at
fault, check to see if the
machines are getting all the
milk from them. It may be
necessary to leave the cups on
a little longer, at the same time
bearing down on the teat-cups
with the hand.
When feeding supplements,
particularly costly protein sup-
plements, it is necessary to
study the milk-yield of each
cow. If some do not respond
to the increased feed, they
won’t pay for its cost. It may
be better to take some away
from these cows and give it to
those making the best use of it.
Feeding all the herd at the
same rate is not good practice ;
some will get too much and
others not enough.
The best way to feed is
according to the daily milk-
yield. A simple way of getting
over this is to divide the herd
into four groups according to
their production and give
each cow in the group the same
ration. This is not strictly
accurate, but it’s near enough
for all practical purposes and
saves a lot of work.
Cows graze more at night
than by day in summer. So,
if herd-recording shows that
milk-production has suddenly
dropped, see if the cows are
getting enough to eat at night.
It’s surprising how quickly a
paddock can be eaten down.
An important lesson to be
learnt from the herd-tester is
“how long the cows milk.”
Short lactations are sometimes
hard to spot unless some record
is kept. Herd-testing results
will show this at a glance.
Cocoa for Queensland
“Llaym”: The Queensland
Agricultural Department, as a
step towards starting small
trial-plots of cacao-trees, has
surveyed several areas in the
north of the State. Depart-
mental officers have the assist-
ance of D. H. Urquhart, former
Director of Agriculture on the
West African Gold Coast (now
Ghana) and an authority on
cacao-growing.
The cacao-tree (often called
the chocolate-tree), which pro-
duces the beans from which
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(16/ 6/'60)
Most of Queensland —except part of the Darling Downs,
where there may be moderate falls—should have light rain
during July. Better falls are likely in the coastal districts,
on the central highlands, Darling Downs and about the
Maranoa and Warrego during August; after that, rainfall
may be patchy until November.
In N.S.W. there are likely to be patchy rains in July,
apart from better falls on the Southern Tablelands. In
'August there should be good rains along the coast and in
the tableland areas and north-western districts, but elsewhere
rainfall will probably be patchy and below normal, with
general falls likely in December.
Most of Victoria should have good rains during July,
with best falls in the east-central and north-eastern districts,
along the west coast and in East Gippsland. Moderate to
good rains are likely during August, with general falls in
September.
South Australia should have good rains in July, with
moderate falls extending into the interior. Rainfall may be
poor in the interior for the rest of the year ; but reasonably
good falls—though below normal—should continue in the
agricultural areas until September.
There should be reasonably good rains, also below
average, in the agricultural areas of Western Australia,
with better falls along the s.-w-central coast. Light to
moderate rains are likely about the Gascoyne, though else-
where falls may be poor.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order f0r....
months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly to—
NAME :
ADDRESS *
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year—£l 6s. Post
free. British C’wealth: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign; £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia; 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year —19s. 6d.
British C’wealth: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
cocoa and chocolate are manu-
factured, grows in fertile soil
where rainfall is not too heavy;
it seems particularly suited to
the Cairns and Ingham districts,
where the average annual rain-
fall is about 80in. Too much
humidity, however, brings on
fungus diseases of the leaves.
Trees will be tested in different
conditions of soil and climate
to discover where they do best
and what fertilisers are needed
to bring the best returns. Papua
and New Guinea produced
about 4000 tons of cocoa-beans
—worth almost £1,500,000-
last year, so there seems no
reason why the crop should not
do well in selected areas of
North Queensland.
The world’s annual output of
cocoa and chocolate is about
300,000 tons of which almost
half comes from Ghana.
Present price of £2BO a ton,
or 2s. 6d. a pound, delivered
into store at Australian main
ports, would mean a gross
return of about £l4O an acre.
It is one tropical crop that can
be produced economically with-
out depending on cheap native
labor.
The Queensland trials will
take five years to complete.
Winter Grazing
“ Ruddigore ”: Queensland
dairyfarmers are finding oats
the best winter-fodder crop to
sow—and it’s good for beef-
production, too.
In a normal season oats
will give at least five graz-
ings ; the Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s chief
agronomist points out that
early plantings will last until
spring and give up to 400
cow-grazing hours to the acre.
If it’s to be thejnain winter-
fodder crop sow an acre for
every two or three cows. If
the season looks like being
dry, one acre to two cows
will give a margin of safety.
Many varieties of oats give
heavy yields of green roughage.
For 27in.-rainfall districts,
Algerian, Vicland and Klein
are good, and Belah and Ful-
ghum are also useful. In
wetter areas, crown-rust is a
problem and right choice of
variety becomes very import-
ant. Benton and Bobay are
suitable, while Vicland will
also prove its worth in wetter
districts as well as in drier.
For grazing, sow at the rate
of 401 b. to 501 b. an acre if
drilled, and 601 b. an acre if
broadcast. Oats can be grown
over practically the whole of
Queensland from the Ather-
ton Tableland to the drier
western districts. Approxi-
mately 300,000 acres are sown
each year.
Leaf-miner in Tobacco
“Acacia”: A recent out-
break of leaf-miners in Queens-
land tobacco-crops caused an
estimated loss of 1000 tons of
“Can’t We be alone?”
leaf, and cost £lOO,OOO for in-
secticides and soil-fumigants.
Control is difficult because
the pest does not feed extern-
ally, and so is protected from
most insecticides, but D.D.T.,
used as a 0.1 per cent, spray or
a 2 per cent, dust, gives fair
control. Seeking a more effec-
tive spray the agricultural
Department has found a new
insecticide, W.L. 1650, to be
the answer. It will kill leaf-
miner more quickly than
D.D.T. and is of special value
as a spot-treatment where high
activity is evident. It’s com-
patible with D.D.T., eldrin or
dieldrin if other pests are
present. To obtain effective
control, both surfaces of the
leaves must be completely
covered with the spray.
Erosion
“Myall”: Over 1,000,000
acres of cultivated land in
Queensland needs urgent treat-
ment for erosion, and at least
another 100,000 acres of new
cultivated land is being
broken-up each year.
Up to now a total of 77,000
acres has been protected,
while a further total of
200,000 acres is covered by
soil-conservation schemes, and
preliminary plans have been
made for 1,300,000 acres
more.
Twelve years ago, when the
Department of Agriculture
formed its soil-conservation
service, only 20 farmers in the
State were taking the trouble
to combat erosion. Today
more than 2200 are working
to check the threat. In par-
ticular, the department, which
now has extension-services in
most agricultural centres, is
urging farmers in catchment-
areas to co-operate in dealing
with uncontrolled run - off
water.
Formation of soil-conserva-
tion groups lends, of course,
to discussion of problems
common to everyone in a
watershed and lays the founda-
tion for closer liaison with the
department. In the South
Burnett, where such activity is
strongest, three soil-conserva-
tion groups have been estab-
lished to ensure co-ordinated
action within 12 catchment-
areas. Co-operating with this
move, two local-authorities in
the area have formed their own
sub-committees to attend to
soil-conservation.
Also, district soil-conserva-
tion committees have been
formed on the Darling Downs
and around the South Burnett
and Atherton; they consist
of senior technical-officers of
the Main Roads Department,
Irrigation Commission, local-
authorities and the Agricul-
tural Department. Their aim
is to prepare the best plan in
the shortest time. Water-
disposal systems are costly
and must be permanent, so
they need sound planning if
they are to be properly sited
to protect farmlands without
endangering public utilities.
Speaking about the soil-
conservation scheme the Agri-
cultural Department’s Chief
Soil-conservation Officer ex-
plained that the aim is to bring
the situation under control
within 20 years. This will
require the building of
contour-banks and earthworks
affecting 55,000 acres of eroded
land dach year, quite apart
from treatment of at least
part of new lands being
brought under cultivation. All
told, the department is aiming
at developing co-ordinated
soil-conservation plans for
10-million acres in the State
within this period. Here
farmers can play a useful part
and it is hoped that work will
be done by the farmer-
groups to help agricultural-
drainage projects especially.
Whatever methods are used
to control erosion, and how-
ever much assistance the
department gives, farmers are'
the only people who can help
it forward at the desired rate.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of book of poems by
Harry Morant. —6992.
Copy of words of poem, ‘The
111-fated Temora Mail.” —6993.
A copy of The Bulletin Reciter.
—6994.
Information Supplied
(From “Dave”): Regarding the
Information Sought par. (B.
15/6/’6O), it is not surprising that
the name of the great racehorse
Malua (who, incidentally, did his
early racing under the name of
Bagot) is absent from abo.-
nomenclature. It derives from the
Fijian language, and it means
“linger” or “wait a while.” In his
Grand National Hurdle win Malua
was ridden by his owner, J. G.
lnglis.
Information Sought
What are the powers of the
Federal Government to create new
States ?
The Commonwealth Constitution
provides that: “The Parliament
may admit to the Commonwealth
or establish new States, and may
upon such admission or establish-
ment make or impose such terms
and conditions, including the extent
of representation in either House
of the Parliament, as it thinks fit.”
Any alteration to the extent of
the territory of an existing State
must have the consent of the
Parliament of the State and the
approval of the majority of the
electors of the State.
“A new State may be formed
by separation of territory from a
State, but only with the consent
of the Parliament thereof, and a
new State may be formed by the
union of two or more States or
parts of States, but only with
the consent of the Parliaments of
the States affected.”
* * * *
What is a pibgorn ?
A rare, traditional musical
instrument of Wales, long associated
with shepherds. In 1937 the only
three authentic specimens were
shown at the Welsh National
Museum. One was presented to
the London Society of Antiquaries
in 1770; the second, also of the
18th century, came from Carnarvon-
shire ; the third came from a
cottage in North Wales. The
instrument has a single reed as
distinct from the double-reed of
the English hornpipe. It is a
cylindrical body of wood or bone
pierced with finger-holes, ending
in a sort of bell made from an
animal-horn. The name pibgorn
virtually means hornpipe. The tone
of the instrument has been
described as somewhat similar to
that of an oboe.
* * * *
When was the last duel fought
in Australia ?
' Although there were attempts
made to stage duels some years
later, the last definite duel took
place at Wellington (N.S.W.) in
1854 between a Dr. Curtis and a
Mr. Sheridan. One shot was fired,
but the police then arrested both
men, who were bound-over to keep
the peace. The last occasion when
duelling was mooted was in 1880,
when the challenger was arrested
at the instigation of his opponent.
* * * *
How does one treat common
bricks for weathering ? How can
one treat red-painted brick to
harmonise with other brick
buildings ?
From Sydney Technical College:
If the brickwork is discolored,
due to fungus growth, application
of a weak solution of carbolic-acid
“ What's the rate-of-exchange on pearl-shell ?”
—say, one part of acid to 50 parts
of water—followed a couple of
days later by a vigorous scrubbing
with warm water containing a
cleaning compound, should work.
If the mortar joints are fretting
or soft edges of the bricks are
crumbling, the exposed surfaces of
the walling can be sealed by two
applications of water-repellent, such
as Masonseal or Dri-wall.
The painted brick cannot be
treated except by repainting, unless
the paint did not have an oil base.
In this case it may be possible
to scrub it off with a strong
solution of caustic-soda.
* * * *
How does opal, in its various
types, come to be formed ?
During Miocene time (from 12-
to 26-million years ago) Australia
had been worn down to a vast
plain, and the ground-water being
very sluggish in its movements had
ample time to dissolve various
chemical substances from the
rocks. One of these substances
was silica, the most common con-
stituent of the earth’s crust. The
climate of that time was alter-
nating between periods of rainfall
and extreme aridity. During the
arid periods, this silica in solution
rose up through the rocks, and
under specialised conditions, a
type of hydrous jellified silica was
deposited. This silica is opal,
“precious,” “potch,” “common,”
“matrix” being the various types.
Precious opal is characterised by
play of colors, caused by the
presence of certain structural
features within the stone that break
the white light entering the stone
into the component colors of the
spectrum.
Brief Answers
K.A.H.: By all means use
paragraphs, though editorial start
may make alterations... .M.: The
first fight at the Sydney Stadium
was on August 21, 1908, when
Sid Russell outpointed Peter Felix
in 20 rounds. On August 24, the
Canadian heavyweight Tommy
Burns beat Bill Squires by a
knock-out in the 13th round, in
a bout promoted by H. D.
Mclntosh, who was to promote
the Burns-Johnson fight on
Boxing Day the same year....
J. 8.: A large spy-ring in America
was broken-up about a year before
America entered the war. See
The Nazi Spy Conspiracy in
America, by Leon G. Turrow....
“Sydney” (New Guinea): (o) A
V.J. (Vaucluse Junior) is a chine-
built boat lift. 6in. long with a
beam of 3ft. 7in., carrying a mast
17ft. 6in. high, slotted to take the
mast accessories. It has a stainless-
steel fin which gives the boat a
draught of 3ft. 6in., making it
ideal for sailing in enclosed waters.
Full particulars, of specifications,
etc., are obtainable from Boat-
Plans, Pty., Ltd., 841 George Street,
Sydney. ( b ) Australian wheat-yield
per acre is, on latest figures avail-
able, 19.2 bushels; New Zealand,
38.8 bushels. (c) Both coun-
tries at present have exportable
surpluses and therefore have no
need to import... .8.L.L.: The
tenant is responsible for the pay-
ment of excess water used for
gardening... .J.H.: Coke- and
coal-ashes have no fertility-use in
a garden, as they are mostly
carbon, but they are useful as a
trench-base in sandy soils for
holding moisture; wood-ashes are
rich in potash and are beneficial
to vegetables, notably potatoes.
To maintain their properties, store
them in a dry place until used.
....T.F.D.: Hydrophrenosis is the
medical term for dropsical inflamma-
tion of the kidneys... .D.M.N.:
It was estimated —though because
of lack of accurate data it must
be regarded as only a rough
approximation—that the aboriginal
population of Australia at the
beginning of white settlement was
250,000... .G.F.R.: The term
“eagle” is applied only to holes
over par 3. Two strokes less than
par on such a short hole would be
a hole-in-one... .K.M.: Carol is
a word whose etymology is
obscure and of which the earliest
meaning appears to have been a
round dance; then a song, origin-
ally the song accompanying the
dance, and especially a song of
joy sung at Christmas in celebra-
tion of the Nativity. The first
collection of Christmas - carols
extant was printed by Wynkyn de
Warde in 1521.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
G. 8.: See if you can write a
sonnet. . . .S.J.T.: The first-person's
a mistake there. You can’t really
hope to persuade anyone that
you’re the earth in your orbit
slowly revolving... .F.S.C.: Glad
you are going to catch the
Abominable Snowmen. One of
them didn’t write that poem, did
he? 8.M.: Too prosy G.F.:
“Chair-lift, Thredbo” goes down
and down and down... .D.R.E.:
Too many outworn poeticisms —
e.g., “sober garb’”.... Macca: Two
lines of one of your parodies: —■
The Assyrian came down like a bolt
from the blue,
His cohorts' were ail charging at who?
....Olga Terrag: For children....
J.E.: Here you go, then:
J.H.: Do keep the leg-glances
out of the acid.... A.S.: A very
sad thing indeed to happen on
St. Patrick’s Day....R.M.:
“Unknown” got a second reading.
... .8.J.0’D.: Tut A.E.: All
poems on the aborigines are the
same poem and sometimes we pub-
lish it, but more often we don’t.
. ...J.V.B. (Canada): In case it
means something in Canadianese,
here it is:
HER DIPTHOXG
When Spring turns on her triller’s song
The graceful swan sounds her dipthong
But since the daw thinks that’s guffaw
He rasps a pshaw with his caw caw.
M.E.S.: No wolds M.S.C.:
But how does it become verse?
H.N.: It has feeling but no
form K.D.: The cat’s the best.
You’ve observed it W.P.: We
have a certain sympathy for your
poem “Composed 22nd October,
1959, by W.P., the Wandering Poet,
while employed by Metropolitan
Water, Sewerage and Drainage
Board at Warragamba Dam,
N.S.W., Australia”; but on the
whole we think you’d better send
it to the Water Board... .Joe:
No, Joe... .N.J.W.: “TV Tragedy”
too long by miles... .Y.G.
(London): Not a chance.
To veils and shrieks and hoots and cries,
Wild rushes and mad lurches
The sheep respond by milling round
In ever widening circles.


THE HOLLIDAYS
“Well, a pound certainly goes a lot further here than it does in Sydney.”
New Recordings
A Potpourri of Classicals
The incidence of the greatesi
work of its kind being played
by one of the finest virtuosos
of the day is captured by
Coronet in its latest big-music
release, Beethoven’s Violin
Concerto, played by Isaac
Stern, with the New York Phil-
harmonic under Leonard Bern-
stein (KLC 2719). Stern has
never been heard to better
advantage, with his end-move-
ments always “strong” Beet-
hoven, and the centre-piece
larghetto given requisite tender-
ness but without the saccharine
touch. The cadenzas by Fritz
Kreisler are given copybook
performance.
A new Philips Classical
Favorites release contains two
ehgaging works for piano-and-
orchestra: Cesar Franck’s
“Symphonic Variations” and
Rachmaninoff’s “Rhapsody On
a Theme of Paganini” (G 664-
502 R). . The Variations, cheer-
ful and lyrical, allow the
maximum interplay be-
tween keyboard and orchestra.
The Rhapsody, of course, is
one of Rachmaninoff s most
admired opuses. Probably no
melody has ever yielded such
a bonanza to music as this 24th
Caprice for solo - violin by
Paganini on which these 24
variations are based; Brahms
wrought a beautiful set of
variations on them. Schu-
mann, Liszt and Blacher
also used the tune, and even
Paganini himself built on it.
These of Rachmaninoff make
use of almost every pianistic
trick in the calendar. Pianist
Leon Fleisher plays dashingly,
abetted by the Cleveland
Orchestra under Georg Szell.
Another in the same Philips
series, Famous Overtures (GR
664 501) played by the same
orchestra under the same con-
ductor, include three which
are pipe-openers to operas still
in the general repertoire. There
is the brief but coruscating
“Marriage of Figaro” of
Mozart ; the boisterous gaiety
of Smetana’s folk-opera “The
Bartered Bride”; and the
cheerful potpourri of tunes
from Strauss’s “Der Fleder-
maus.” Those from forgotten
operas are Rossini’s “Thieving
Magpie”—the Overture, still
popular because of its lush
melodies, wit and the liberal use
of the celebrated “Rossini-
crescendos”; and Berlioz’s
“Roman Carnival” Overture,
the one gem recovered from
the wreck of his opera, “Ben-
venuto Cellini.” These five
make a rich collection of the
form.
*> ❖ ♦>
In Lighter Vein
What sort of music do
young Italians go for when
they’re not in operatic mood
and American pop.-songs pall?
Parlophone’s Blue Italian Skies
(PMC 1073), a collection of
a dozen modern Italian songs
played by Renato Carosone
and his sextet, answers this
question very pleasantly. A
singer and a pianist, Carosone
shares the vocals with his
drummer, Gege di Giacomo,
and their platters sell
like hot-rhythm cakes. This
batch shows them in a variety
of moods and tempos. Pos-
sible favorite: the fast-moving
“Pigliate ’na Pastiglia (Take
a Pill).”
Soft melody and nostalgic
undertones are the keynote of
Candlelight Serenade, a Poly-
dor recording (LPHM 46330)
made for Philips by Helmut
Zacharias “and his Magic
Violins.” His latest collection
of popular pieces includes
“Mona Lisa” “The Three
Bells,” “Windows of Paris” and
Jobim's “Adieu Tristesse.’
Ken Griffin, exponent of the
Hammond organ, has sound-
tracked something like a dozen
disks for Coronet. Latest m
the series is Sweet and Lively
(KLP 856), a collection which
includes “Valencia,” “Tumble-
down Shack in Athlone,”
“Bei Mir Bist du Schon” and
“Estellita.”
Two more 45’s in the “Your
Kind of Music” series feature
Gigli and Elizabeth Schwarz-
kopf. On H.M.V.’s 7PO-207
Gigli sings “La Donna e
Mobile,” from “Rigoletto,”
and “The Stars Were Brightly
Shining,” from “Tosca.” Miss
Schwarzkopf’s two offerings
are “Merry Widow” pieces—•
“Vilia” and “Hello, Maiden,
See Him Ride,” the latter a
duet with Erich Kunz. Gigli
is supported by the La Scala
Orchestra, under Franco
Ghione; the two German
singers by Otto Ackermann
and the Philharmonia Orches-
tra. The late Dinu Lipatti, the
Rumanian pianist, is repre-
sented by “Jesu, Joy of Man’s
Desiring” (Myra Hess’s fine
transcription) and Bach’s Sici-
liana (SCDO 2110); and Sir
John Barbirolli pilots the Lon-
don Philharmonic Orchestra
through the lovely “Scene,”
“Waltz” and “Dance of the
Little Swans” from Act II of
“Swan Lake.”
From Coronet a quartet of
455, two orchestrals, a vocal
and a steel-guitar duo. Percy
Faith on KS 387 takes his
orchestra through the lively
“Bimini Goombay” and his
own “Theme for Young
Lovers,” and Xavier Cugat’s
team gives forth four numbers,
including “Penthouse Mambo”
and (with Pepito Arvelo con-
tributing the vocal) “Coco
Seco,” which is apparently
Spanish for “Dry Coconuts to
You” (KEP 238). Johnny
Cash, Marty Robbins, Johnny
Horton and Charlie Walker
dug the microgrooves on
“Four Big Hits” (KEP 182),
lugubrious ballads whose
general theme can be summed-
up in the title of Cash’s item,
“Don’t Take Your Guns to
Town.” Les Paul and Mary
Ford get together with their
guitars “On the Beach at
Waikiki” (KEP 243) and strum
four grass-skirt melodies in
appropriate moonlit - sands
mood.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
First prize for the best-costumed group
at the National Theatre Arts Ball at St.
Kilda Palais, which drew 1100 dancers,
went to a magnificently-apparelled group
of young men and women representing
a scene from the film “Ben-Hur.” The
Palais was decorated in the National
Theatre colors of green and gold, and
on the tables were theatrical motifs and
bowls of dried hydrangeas. Baskets of
mixed-fruits and bowls of gay flowers
decorated the official table, and welcom-
ing official guests were the chairman of
the board of the National Theatre, Sir
Robert Knox, and Lady Knox, who was
president of the ball-committee and made
a superb Madame Pompadour in a cos-
tume of white splashed with scarlet
carnations, and wearing a white wig. Sir
Robert wore a black-and-red domino.
Lady Angliss donned the costume of a
Spanish lady.
In the official party were Sir Arthur
and Lady Smithers (she wearing a gay
and attractive Tyrolean costume); Lord
Mayor Bernard Evans and the Lady
Mayoress (her bouffant gown was of
black silk-organza spotted with white,
the folded bodice featuring a dropped
shoulder-line); the Minister for Housing,
Mr. Petty, and Mrs. Petty (the latter’s
choice a sheath-frock of silver lame).
John Casson (one of the Costume-judges)
was with Mrs. Casson. Another judge
was actress Evie Hayes, who chose an
ankle-length sheath-frock of aqua-blue
silk and a matching fitted jacket.
. ☆ ☆ ☆
Stanmark, East St. Kilda, was
decorated with the flags of Australia and
Thailand when Thai Consul H. I. Fader
and Mrs. Fader entertained over 300
guests in honor of Thailand's national
day. The Ambassador, Mr. Vadhana
Isarabhakdi, and his wife came from
Canberra, and during the party Miss
Phanphen Phoonwathu, wearing an
exotic national costume and a headdress
sent specially from Thailand for the
occasion, gave an exhibition of national
classical-dancing. Guests included the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress, acting
Chief Secretary L. Thompson and Mrs.
Thompson, Legislative Council president
Sir Gordon McArthur and Lady
McArthur, University Chancellor Sir
Arthur Dean and Lady Dean, Senator
Ivy Wedgwood and Mr. J. K. Wedgwood,
Air-Vice-Marshal E. A. Daley, Mr. and
Mrs. W. K. Burnside, Mr. and Mrs.
W. W. Killough (she wore a coat of
brilliant colors in Thai silk), and U.K.
Trade Commissioner H. P. Stevens and
Mrs. Stevens.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the late-afternoon party held at
Majella, St. Kilda Road, by the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra subscribers’ com-
mittee camellias and other winter flowers
decorated the reception-room, where com-
mittee president Howard King, with Mrs.
King, received the guests. There were
four guests of honor: M. ' Georges
Tzipine, Thomas Matthews, James White-
head and the leader of the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra, Bertha Jorgensen.
Bertha was congratulated on receiving the
M.B.E. in the last honors-list. With the
French conductor was Madame Tzipine,
attractive in a frock and tunic jacket of
light-beige velvet trimmed with mink.
(She is a Yorkshirewoman, and gave this
Letter a recipe for a fine Yorkshire pud-
ding). With Mr. Matthews was his wife
Miss Eileen Ralf. Among the guests were
the Victorian manager of the A.8.C.,
Ewart Chappie (celebrating his birthday),
Mr. and Mrs. Rudy Himmer, Mrs. Guy
Bakewell, Mrs. Henry Searby, Dr. W. R.
Oldfield (he represented the British Coun-
cil), Mr. Justice Sholl, Mr. and Mrs.
David Hyams, Mrs. Robert Ramsay, Dr.
John O’Donoghue and pianist June
McLean.
Gertrude Johnson, founder and
director of the National Theatre Move-
ment, became a coloratura soprano under
Melba’s supervision before touring Aus-
tralia with a J.C.W.-sponsored opera
company. In 1921 she went to Covent
Garden, where she sang for eight years
before leaving to fulfil broadcasting and
recording contracts and to sing at various
festivals in England. She also spent some
time at Salzburg, where she studied the
works of Mozart. When her father died
in 1935 Gertrude returned home to be
with her mother, and it was then she
began the work of founding the National
Theatre Movement. Her ambition is the
establishment of a permanent opera-
company in Australia. The National
Theatre Movement combines the three
arts: opera, ballet and drama. Last
March it celebrated its silver jubilee with
a Festival of Opera and Ballet at the St.
Kilda Palais.
Unusual decorations were a feature of
the Sacre Coeur Bail, which was held at
the St. Kilda Palais. Birch-trees were
painted white and dripped crystal-beads,
while crystal lustres filled with white'
camellias decorated the official-table,
which had a background of white trees.
Layers of white tulle covered the
debutantes’ table on which were tiny
white birch-trees, camellias and white
feather - swans. Thirteen debs., wearing
individual white frocks and carrying trails
of white hyacinths made their bow to
the president of the Sacre Coeur Old
Girls’ Association, Mrs. Kevin Cussen,
and Dr. Cussen. They were Sally Callan,
Janette Flowers, Elizabeth Rennick, Mary
Taylor, Helen Pickering, Kristin
Schneider, Susan Wren, Elizabeth
Phillips, Catherine Burns, Bernice
Donnellan, Francis Johnson, Susan
Miller and Ann O’Halloran. Represen-
tatives from Mandeville Hall, Genazzano,
Xavier College and St. Kevin's College
were in the official party.
☆ ☆ ☆
A couple of months ago a group of
young people banded together to form
the Heymount Auxiliary to the Royal
Women's Hospital. As their first function
they organised a Russian Tanz, a wool-
shed on a property close to the city
being lent for the occasion. By their
meritorious efforts £7OO was raised, and
at a late-afternoon party held last week at
Tracy House (a wing of the hospital), the
auxiliary's young president, Ann Curtis,
presented a cheque for this amount to
hospital-president Mrs. Oswald Bowden.
The auxiliary’s intention is to hold one
large fund-raising function each year.
Among the 100 guests at the party were
hospital-vice-presidents Mrs. Arthur
Prytz and Mrs, Wilfred Black, auxiliary-
patroness Mrs. Leo Curtis, and the
hospital's matron, Miss Betty Lawson.
☆ ☆ ☆
Hostess at the delightful party given
by the hospitality-committee of the Vic-
toria League to thank all those who had
been guest-speakers at the league during
the year were committee-chairman Mrs.
Frank Hobill Cole and vice-chairmen
Mrs. Humphrey Clegg and Mrs. Philip
Hudson. Among those at the party were
the league's chairman, Mrs. Guy Bake-
well, vice-chairman Mrs. Robert
Hamilton, Mrs. Isobel Green, Mrs. Lisle
Pym, Dr. and Mrs. Bowen Allen, Air-
Commodore and Mrs. D. Creal, Mrs.
Beresford Marks, Mrs. Victor Nilsen,
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Barber (Geelong),
Mrs. Hellier Evans, Mrs. Norman
McCall, Mrs. S. Phillips (hon. sec. of the
hospitality-committee), Mrs. T. Firth
(president of the young-contingent of the
V.L.), hon. secretary Margaret Beck, and
Nona Sheehan.


SYDNEY
Our diary (printed in Sydney)
announced last s Friday as “Midsummer,”
but the drizzle drizzled and the cold
seeped-in nonetheless. Peter Graves,
American star of “Whiplash,” speaking
at the Queen of the Harbor Ball at the
Balmain Town Hall, summed up the
situation in two words, “It’s Cold.”
Yet there was great warmth in the
congratulations to the Queen, Joan
Smith, of Leichhardt, and to runners-up
Norma O’Keefe, of Leichhardt, and
Janice Robinson, of Balmain. The other
pretty girls in the contest, which had
raised £515 for the Royal Institution for
Deaf and Blind Children, were Pam
Harris, Dierdre Watson and Carol
O’Keefe. Mrs. Bill White, president of
the social committee, and Mr. Robert
Lundie, president of the Sydney Flying
Squadron, received the guests.
It was interesting to meet Mrs. Alice
Halliday at this ball. A well-known
personality in Balmain, at 90 she is the
person with the longest association with
the Flying Squadron. It was established
in 1890 by Mark Foy and is the oldest
open-boat club (18-footers) in Australia.
Mrs. Halliday recalls sailing in the ’9os
when picnics at Athol Gardens were the
rage. Her daughter, Mrs. G. White,
accompanied her to the ball this year.
Another couple with a long association
with the Flying Squadron and the ball
were Mr. and Mrs. Victor Everson, who
had come down from Macksville (N.S.W.)
for the occasion. Mr. Everson has been
Commodore of the club for seven years
in succession, which is a record.
☆ ☆ ☆
Looking very pretty on her 86th birth-
day and wearing a corsage of orchids,
Mrs. Lucy Cassidy was greeted by a
large gathering of her friends at the
N.S.W. Nurses’ Memorial Club Rooms,
and the various speakers at the party
touched on the many aspects of her life
and work that have been of benefit to
Australia.
Mr. Walter Stone informed us that it
was Mrs. Cassidy who had founded the
Fellowship of Australian Writers; Mr.
Jack Vincent spoke of the work she had
done to honor the memory of Henry
Lawson ; Mr. S. Einfeld (who stressed
the charming femininity and regality of
her character and bearing) spoke for the
people of North Bondi, where she lives ;
Miss Mollie Gollan (Headmistress of
Randwick Girls’ High School) thanked
her for her interest in schoolgirls and for
honoring the name of Dame Mary Gil-
more ; Dr. Colin Roderick praised her
work for writers generally, especially
Roderick Quinn ; Mrs. Edna Roper (who
presented the brooch which was a
birthday-gift from the gathering) dwelt
on her value to the Labor movement
in the vital period of the 90s ; and the
Rev. Dr. C. J. Duffy stressed her beauty
of character which had grown with the
years and showed in her beauty of face.
Miss Ellie Glavin thanked the party on
her aunt’s behalf and said, so truly, that
it must have been the first time that Mrs.
Cassidy had ever asked anyone else to
speak for her!
Elaine Montgomerie will make a
beautiful Viola for John Alden’s produc-
tion of “Twelfth Night,” which opens at
the Conservatorium on July 19. Educated
at Kambala, where she was head prefect
in her Leaving Certificate-year, Elaine
has a richly cultural background, fostered
by her love of reading biography and
philosophy, her warm response to the
treasures of the past and her wide know-
ledge and experience of dramatic art.
She spent eight years in England and
Ireland, where she was warmly welcomed
on the stage, TV and radio. She will be
remembered for her performances with
John Alden’s Shakspeare company in
1959, when-she fulfilled her schoolgirl
ambition of appearing at the Royal in
Shakspeare.
After a week at the Conservatorium,
“Twelfth Night” will go to the Independ-
ent for a week. The short season is
under the auspices of The Arts Council,
and will include matinees every day
except Tuesday, and performances each
night at 8 p.m.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was sad to hear of the death during
the week of former Lady Mayoress
Johanna Ellen O’Dea. She was a gentle
woman, warm, friendly and energetic.
It was her special gift to take a personal
interest in everyone she met, and, as she
never forgot a face, so also she never
seemed to forget the name that went
with it. Her work for charity will be
remembered with admiration, and she
herself will be remembered with great
affection.
# # v
There was a certain international tone
to this week’s social activities, with the
Arizona Boys’ Chorus at the Town Hall,
the Lithuanian Art exhibition at David
Jones’ Gallery and the Spanish dancers,
as well as the Migrants’ Welcome at
Anthony Hordern’s Hall, where the Good
Neighbor Council entertained newcomers,
800 strong, from all parts of Europe and
the U.K, The Ukrainian Ballet Danc-
ing Group of Nina Denysenko, clad in
red pantaloons and brandishing sabres,
were the chief attraction at this party,
where Dr. Morven Brown was guest-of-
honor and Mrs. M. S. Watts chief
organiser.
☆ ☆ ☆
The air w'as electric with excitement
at the opening night of “Alegrias de
Espana” at the Royal. Never (well,
hardly ever) has the foyer been so
crowded and the number of languages
contributing to the babel so varied.
Sydney’s Spanish community turned up
en masse and audience-reaction was in-
tense. Mrs. Harry Wren, swathed in
glittering white and wrapped in arctic-
fox, was the centre of the assembly.
Noticed there, too, Sir William and
Lady McKell, not usually first-nighters.
☆ ☆ ☆
Richard Walker, who is Alfred
Doolittle in “My Fair Lady,” and who
has given 600 performances “without a
miss,” treated members of the Women
Writers’ Society to a rendering of “I’ve
Grown Accustomed to Her Fyce” (which
is the Doolittle version) at the luncheon
during the week. Mrs. Walker, who
plays Mrs. Eynesford Hill in the mara-
thon musical, and who is Helen Roberts,
well known here for her Gilbert and
Sullivan work, also gave a talk, very
witty and lively. She was wearing a
Cossack-hat in a wonderful shade of
violet which toned with her violet coat,
and she looked really dashing.
☆ ☆ ☆
One must call everyone Mr. Smith at
meetings of the Smith Family, which is
one of the largest charitable organisa-
tions in N.S.W. and doesn’t confine its
work to any one section of the com-
munity. But the Ladies’ Social Commit-
tee goes by its own name, and Mrs.
Clinton Ayres, who at a cocktail-party
on Wednesday presented a cheque for
£2OOO as president of the committee —a
record sum —was congratulated by presi-
dent Mr. Smith and made a life-member
of the Smith Family.
☆ ☆ ☆
The beauty and elegance of the sari as
a form of dress was commented on at
the reception in honor of the High Com-
missioner for Ceylon, Mr. B. F. Perera,
and Mrs. Perera at the Royal Common-
wealth Society during the week. Mrs.
Perera’s sari was in apple-green and
cherry and that of Mrs. Elmer Marten-
stein, wife of the Trade Commissioner
for Ceylon, in ruby-red with bands of
gold thread. Mrs. Martenstein’s mother,
Mrs. Jonklaas, who has come from
Ceylon for a visit to Sydney, was also
at the reception.


he reacted also against the traditional
drama of tension and catharsis, which
he regarded as decadent, even harm-
ful. Neither playwright nor performer,
he argued, should try to “involve”
audiences in the action on stage;
suspense should be avoided and a criti-
cal attitude cultivated. Plays should
copsist of loosely-knit episodes, each
making sense on its own and all
depending for their total effect on
juxtaposition and montage.
The actor “should not regard himself
as impersonating the character so much
as narrating the actions of another
person at a definite time in the past”
(Esslin’s words) —something like an
eye-witness acting out an accident for
those who did not see it. The audience
would thus be left to judge, to evaluate
in social terms, the events shown to
them.
This effect on the audience Brecht
called “alienation”—the word has
unfortunate associations in English; the
French “distanciation” gives a truer
impression of what he was aiming at—
and to promote it he used in production
such devices as narrators, songs, masks,
titles flashed on screens, hard “frank”
lighting and exposed stage-machinery.
The theory didn’t, couldn’t, work
out: it went against the very nature of
theatrical experience. People persisted
in being stirred, moved, involved. But,
Esslin suggests, this very contradiction
between Brecht’s intentions and the
audience’s natural tendency induced a
powerful effect of its own: “And so
Brecht’s success lies in his partial
failure to realise his own intentions.”
And in any case:—
The primary factor was always his
creative work: the theories....
were postscripts to plays or poems
rather than a priori principles on
which these had been based. The
rationalist Brecht deeply distrusted
inspirations and intuitions. So he
constructed his theories as rationali-
sation of changes in his style, taste
or stage practice.
This must come as a relief to those
who have read about the theories in
their wealth of detail and jargon and
have been put off by the prospect they
suggest, for it simply means that Brecht
was too much of an artist to be con-
tained by a theory, even when it was
his own. Working mainly from the
testimonies of Brecht’s friends and
associates, Esslin discovers a similar
conflict between reason and artistic
instinct at work in other parts of
Brecht’s personality between his
conscious belief in collective solutions
to- social problems and his. deep con-
cern for the individual; between his
studied rationalism and his fascination
with the promptings of emotion; his
cultivated optimism and his essentially
tragic sense of life; his outward
cynicism and his inward preoccupation
with problems of good and evil; his
Confucian blandness and his peasant
coarseness.
It is to Esslin’s credit that he does
not try to argue these conflicts away
but rather tries to show how their
pressure gave Brecht’s work its peculiar
ambiguity:—
The Polish critic Andrzej Wirth
has spoken of the “stereometric”
construction of Brecht's plays, which
always move on several levels of
time, space and narrative method at
once. But the real secret of this
three-dimensional effect lies not in
any formal principle of construction
but in the inner tensions and contra-
dictions within the author’s mind,
conscious and subconscious. It
seems that such deep conflicts within
a personality are among the condi-
tions without which major creative
work cannot be produced, that such
work must spring from the constant
and painful clash between the differ-
ent levels of the artist’s personality.
It was only when Brecht’s consci-
ously held beliefs, particularly his
Communism, got the better of his acute
sense of reality that he wrote badly;
and two of the book’s most interesting
chapters concern his relationships with
the Communists. He returned to East
Berlin in 1948 after 20-odd years of
frustrating exile in Europe and
America during Hitler’s regime. The
Government set him up in his own
theatre, but the party hacks condemned
his work as negative and “formalist.”
Brecht bowed to their criticisms,
listened politely to their advice and,
doubtless reassured by his Austrian
passport and his bank-account in
Switzerland, went on working in his
own way. The “Good Soldier Schweik”
was not one of his favorite heroes for
nothing:—
To make effective use of Brecht
the party had to give him the means
to do his work according to his own
ideas. By displaying that work to
the West while barring it from its
own orbit, the party thought that it
was making use of Brecht for its own
purpose. By accepting the party’s
lavish support and stubbornly stick-
ing to his own ideas Brecht was
, equally firmly convinced that he was
making use of the party to further
his own artistic and political objec-
tives. And so with mutual cynicism
they mutually used each other. It
was a curious arrangement. And
who can tell which side had the best
of the bargain?
Was he. as Esslin and others so
persuasively argue, a great writer? In
this country, where few of his plays
have been staged or published, it is
difficult to judge. But even from these
few, particularly “Galileo” and “The
Good Woman of Setzuan,” it is at least
possible to say that out of the con-
flicting ideas of his time and his own
seemingly conflicting mass of literary
and theatrical influences—among them
the Luther Bible, folk-poetry, Villon,
Buechner, Kipling’s ballads. Expres-
sionism, the Elizabethans, sideshows,
cabarets and the classical theatre of
India, China and Japan—he created a
distinctive kind of drama whose influ-
ence will be felt for some time to come.
BLACK COCKATOOS
[FROM A SERIES]
Each certain kind of weather or of light
has its own creatures. Somewhere else
they wait,
as though they but inhabited heat or cold,
twilight or dawn, and knew no other *
state.
Then at their time they come, timid or
bold.
So when the long drought-winds,
sandpaper-harsh,
were still, and the air changed, and the
clouds came,
and other birds were quiet in prayer or
fear,
these knew their hour. Before the first
far flash
lit up, or the first thunder spoke its name,
in heavy flight they came, till l could
hear
the wild black cockatoos, tossed on the
crest
of their high trees, crying the world’s
unrest.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Of Mice , Men and Mars
Concerning the spontaneous genera-
tion of mice, a subject of much interest
to cats as well as scientists, Norman
H. Horowitz reminds us in Frontiers
of Science (Allen and Unwin) that the
well-known physician and chemist Van
Helmont, who lived from 1577 to 1644,
had no difficulty at all in breeding these
rodents in a jar or bottle:—-
Furthermore [said Van Helmont]
if a dirty undergarment is squeezed
into the mouth of a vessel contain-
ing wheat within a few (say 21) days
the ferment drained from the gar-
ment and transformed by the smell
of the grain encrusts the wheat itself
with its own skin and turns it into
mice. .. .And what is more remark-
able, the mice are neither weanlings,
nor sucklings, nor premature; but
they jump out fully formed.
Though it does not seem to have
occurred to anybody to repeat this
experiment to test it out, it is not, says
Horowitz, now considered probable by
science. On the other hand it is con-
sidered probable that life originated on


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
this planet among the viruses; which,
being able to reproduce and mutate,
can do all that a reasonable being
requires for a happy and fruitful exist-
ence. Or rather, to be precise, since
the molecule of a virus consists of an
outer jacket of protein and a core of
“nucleic acid,” and the protein is
inactive, it was in the nucleic acid
particle that life began; and some scien-
tists think it likely that these nucleic
acids, like Van Helmont’s mice, could
be produced spontaneously in the
proper chemical medium.
To prove this point, Dr. Stanley
Miller, now of the University of
Chicago, simulating the conditions
which existed on the earth two billion
years ago, passed an electric discharge
through an atmosphere consisting of
hydrogen, ammonia, methane and
water. At the end of the experiment he
found a large number of organic com-
pounds, including those which could
build protein, but no nucleic acids
whatsoever. So, as Horowitz wisely
says, “That is where the problem stands
today—and I guess that is where I had
better leave it.”
Having thus solved the problem of
how life originated on earth, it seems
appropriate to pass on to the latest
information about life on the other
planets, which we shall be visiting any
day now; and it is extremely encourag-
ing to find, in another contribution to
this most interesting book, that Frank
Salisbury considers that everybody may
be totally wrong about life on Mars,
or the difficulties which life must
encounter, and that there may be very
much more up there than we think.
Granted, he says, that a comparison
with earthly conditions and require-
ments, particularly the scarcity of
oxygen and water on Mars, makes it
unlikely that the green vegetation which
seems to rush across that hot, bare
planet when the polar ice-caps melt
could be anything but lichens, it must
also be granted that it is not the habit
of lichens to go rapidly sweeping
across a planet; moreover, it is the
habit of most earthly lichens to grow
where there is plenty of water, high up
in the mountains. So if the green tide,
if it is a green tide, is not lichens,
what is it? It is not, he thinks, volcanic
dust; since dust is so seldom green.
Salisbury suggests that Martian
plants may not need to eat the same
types of food as do earthly plants: “We
may be justified in postulating an
entirely new type of life.” If oxygen is
scarce, as it seems to be, perhaps “nitro-
gen instead of oxygen plays the active,
role in energy transfer.” If water is too
scarce to be the “primary solvent” in
which plants conduct their chemistry,
perhaps Martian plants use some other
medium of reaction (“a sort of proto-
plasmic antifreeze —synthesised by the
‘plants’ themselves”). And if that sort
of thing is conceivable, then there is
no reason why the vegetation should
not be satisfactorily luxuriant.
Further, “animal-like organisms
having locomotion would not be out
of the question”; and even the long-
despised “canals” might turn out, after
all, to be canals—the work of these
animal-like organisms having locomo-
tion.
And there, once again, the present
animal-like organism will have to leave
the problem. But, edited by Edward
Hutchings, Jr., and comprising essays
by some 30 contributors on subjects
ranging from “The Origin of Life” to
“The Relation of Science and Re-
ligion,” this is certainly a most useful
and readable book for anyone who
wants to keep up-to-date with his
science.
Another popular-science book which
might be mentioned here is Science;
Chetnistry, Physics, Astronomy, the
first volume in a projected Macdonald
Illustrated Library published under an
editorial board comprising Dr. J.
Bronowski, Sir Gerald Barry, James
Fisher and Sir Julian Huxley. This is
a large, handsome volume,'illustrated
in color, with essays on everythin
from atoms, rockets and astronomy t
stereophonic recording, and wouli
make an ideal gift-book for a boj
interested in such important matters.
NEW YEARS EVE: ST. KILDA
The sea is blank and like the unborn
year:
Black water of the bay is not a mind
And does not heed the laughter or the
fear
While crowds walk on the Esplanade and
wear
Their optimistic, paper hats. Beyond,
The sea is blank and like the unborn
year.
So time must always go, must disappear
With quick balloons released in night
that’s blind
And does not heed the laughter or the
fear.
Crowds start to sing because a birth is
near —
They would exaggerate the hour. Some
find
The sea is blank and like the unborn
year,
In answer to the roundabouts, the leer
Of lights. Tonight the moon remains
profound
And does not heed the laughter or the
fear *
As waving streamers mime farewells in
air.
Two lovers say time will be always kind
And do not heed the laughter or the
fear:
The sea is blank and like the unborn year.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SIMPSON.
Reviewed Briefly
Cyprus Then and Now: Gordon
Home (Dent). A sort of guidebook and
history combined, embellished by more
than 60 line-illustrations by the author.
Birthplace of Aphrodite and Arch-
bishop Makarios, stamping-ground of
Othello, the island has always had
intrinsic interest. The author has a
crisp, military style of writing and a
genuine knowledge of archaeology and
heraldry. His illustrations are very
fine.
* * * *
In Search of Henry: Cecile Joynson
(Hammond). A madly irrelevant, coyly
outspoken novel of the adventures of
a member of the “fishing fleet” in pre-
war India. The narrator hooks Henry
—a second-lieutenant who sports an
eyeglass and appears at a polo-match
“slapping his jodhpured legs with a
fly-whisk”—and goes on with a jaunty
account of married life in barracks,
culminating in the arrival of the narra-
tor’s first-born.
* * * *
I Married a Doctor: Jennifer Gabbey
(Hurst and Blackett). She did. With
the consequences you would expect.
Babies, her own and other people’s;
measles, tonsillitis; doctor being called
out in the middle of the night; trouble
at the telephone; tragedies, comedies,
even a heart-to-heart chat with a
murderer. An amusing book, very
good of its kind: which is that of “The
Egg and I” or “Cats in the Belfry.”
* * * *
If I Forget Thee: Lord Russell of
Liverpool (Cassell). A history of Israel
which traces the events from Theodor
Herzl’s entry into active Zionism until
1948, when David Ben-Gurion pro-
claimed the establishment of Israel.
The story is complex and not easy to
assimilate; but, as a lawyer, Lord
Russell should have made it less indi-
gestible to the ordinary reader. Salient
points are Dr. Chaim Weizmann’s
ceaseless labor to form a national home
for the Jews and the British Govern-
ment’s desire to solve an age-old prob-
lem. Lord Russell shows clearly that
the Arabs have no valid claim to
Palestine, which was part of the
Turkish empire until Allenby’s success-
ful campaign, and he describes why
and how Transjordan was originally
formed.


STEEL PIPE Needs No
' J fi® * * .
Underground Protection
Whenever water
has to be conveyed—
there's no satis-
factory substitute
lor STEEL PIPE
Before ordering, think of these advan-
tages that steel pipe has over other
types of piping.
★ Because it is not fragile or susceptible
to damage by stock or fire, it can be
laid above ground, thereby saving
cost of trenching.
★ Greater strength gives far longer life.
★ Steel pipe does not deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure.
★ Is not damaged by termites or
rodents.
★ Has much greater pressure capacity*
★ Steel pipe is easy to install, handle or
store without fear of breakage.
★ In-built structural strength and rigidity
permit overhead vertical and
building installations.
it No other type of pipe is so
economical ... so enduring . . . s©
versatile in its application.
Why take risks with other fragile, easily damaged, shorter-lived types of piping!
FOR VALUE... GREATER STRENGTH... LONGER LIFE... INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong,
Launceston, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie•
_SSA2-*-59.
