

The Bulletin
"D ream Girl”—page n
Wednesday, March 16, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Itegistered in Australia for transmission by post_ as a newspaper.
" Can you stop turning the light? I can't see where lam!"


LEARN
STORY
WRITING
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
STOTT’S will provide you with interesting,
practical Home-study instruction ©f the
highest, quality, under the guidance of
thoroughly experienced Instructors,
Write at once for your copy of STOTT'S
Literary Brochure, sent without obligation.
159 Hinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Cnstle-
reagh St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St.j Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —— -
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. COO)
BOOKHU>TER. Box 2GU, 0.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volurue, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
"MEETING SOVIET MAN"
I liked Manning Clark’s personal
letters from Russia, some of which were
published in “The Bulletin.” They had
a vivid pictorial quality: you could see
the snow and the grime, you could feel
the cold. And, written spontaneously,
unguardedly, without thought of pub-
lication, they had an engaging and
infectious warmth about them. If
sometimes you thought that he was
too much carried away by the enthusi-
asm of the moment, as when he drew
that remarkable inference from their
allowing him to keep his hat on on a
cold day, nevertheless, you never
doubted that that was how he felt at
the time. So he succeeded in what,
even in private letters, seemed to be
his impassioned underlying purpose;
to persuade us that the Russians—as
is not, after all, surprising—whatever
their Government may do, are still
human.
But I must say that, after the letters,
his Meeting Soviet Man (Angus and
Robertson) is disappointing. In the
reconstruction of his impressions—he
went to Moscow and Leningrad with
a Fellowship of Writers delegation in
1958—t00 much sentimental goodwill
and too much of the desire to excuse
or explain away all failings on the
grounds that we are just as bad our-
selves, have crept in; the warmth seems
arbitrary or pumped-up, and pictorial
quality, except for a little architecture,
das almost completely gone out.
If the Russians are given to boasting,
so. in one strange and massive insult
which one will leave to those who care
more deeply about it to dispute, are the
New Zealanders—a nation “neuroti-
cally Lb.w.” If you wonder why the
Soviet Government tries to play-down
and suppress Doestoevsky they are “as
likely to look pleased when you press
the point as the Australian Broadcast-
ing Commission would if you asked
them to introduce Christ as guest of
honor on Easter Sunday, supposing He
were to come back from the dead.”
One forbears to argue this extra-
ordinary proposition; but surely it is
beside the point.
As for “meeting Soviet man." that
is the last thing that, as far as this book
indicates, Manning Clark did. One
must grant him a tolerably interesting
public conversation with a fat. unpleas-
ant poet; but really (because of the
language-difficulty, of course) the only
occasion in the entire book when he
meets a Soviet citizen face to face in
intimate conversation, so that you can
find out how Soviet man looks and
talks and thinks, is when he meets an
ex-Australian, one Frank Zaborovsky,
formerly of Gunn Street. South Mel-
bourne; and Frank, alas, is a pain in
the neck;—
“I tell you straight I like the
leadership here . . . but, gee. I'd like
to have a long talk to you"—point-
ing to a member of our party who
was not prepared to say, “Frank, I
believe . . . Help thou my unbelief.”
“Gee,” he went 0n... .“if you were
only to go there now and see what
it’s like—the people clean, reading
books, no more grovelling. They’ve
learnt pride, they’re becoming like
the people I knew in Gunn Street.”
Thank God, anyhow, for Gunn
Street!
Lacking intimacy and immediacy,
lacking a profundity of knowledge of
Russian affairs to which Manning Clark
does not profess to aspire, the book
really tells us no more than that he
went to a few theatres and museums,
saw some slums and housing projects,
stayed at a few ? hotels and met a few
intellectuals who spoke enthusiastically
about the regime to him at public
dinners. The best of it. because it
is straightforward reportage, is an
account of a visit to a couple of the
more-or-less compulsory recreation-
centres where the Soviet fills its factory-
workers and its children with the
required culture; but on the whole it
is just such a friendly, well-meaning,
sometimes thoughtful but necessarily
superficial tourist’s-account as one
could imagine being written by an
equally well-meaning Soviet writer who
stayed a couple of weeks in Sydney and
Melbourne, saw a production by the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust, got some
statistics about publishing from Angus
and Robertson, attended a meeting of
the Fellowship of Writers, saw a slum-
clearance project, was told about the
Snowy River scheme and heard the
people cheering on. say. Anzac Day.
It would alt sound equally wonderful;
it would prove, if a little remotely, that
Australians also are human; and the
Soviet visitor might well conclude (in
our favor) that there is “a mighty
difference” between the way we cheer
and the way they do. But what it would
amount to. at most, would be (to mis-
apply a line of Rosemary Dobson’s) “a
wink, a glimpse of Paradise.”
It is. in parts, a sensitive glimpse;
but it is extremely muddled.
Douglas Stewart.
Hypnotic Samoa
South Seas Magic (Robert Hale), by
Ronald Rose, is not, as its title might
imply, a lyrical presentation of life
on a South Sea island, but an ethno-
logical investigation into phenomena
coming under the label of “Para-
psychology," the objective of which is
to inquire into all psychical manifesta-
tions such as hypnosis, auto-sugges-
tion, telepathy, clairvoyance, premoni-
tions, phantasms and tribal magic.
The claim of parapsychology is that
all these phenomena can be the effect
of extra-sensory perception acting on
natural laws relating to the trans-
mission of energy-waves between one
human subject and another.
Ronald Rose and his wife have
already made a parapsychological
survey among the Maoris and the
aborigines. The present work records
a year spent on one of the smaller
Samoan islands, living with the people
and as the people lived; and, as a day-
by-day account of such an existence,
and a careful investigation into the
culture, racial traditions, and personal
characteristics of the Samoan people,
it could hardly be bettered.
As was inevitable, the extra-sensory
data gathered from the Samoans differs
very little from that of other peoples,
whether they come under the heading
of civilised or primitive, though the
Samoans have contributed some
pleasing innovations on the accepted
pattern for ghosts. Possibly because
of the philological complexities of
translating, a term for which there is
a limited choice of equivalents, the
Samoans have elected to call ghosts
or apparitions in general “fairies,"
and these Samoan fairies are a dis-
tinctly original spectral species.
One night the Roses were aroused
(Continued on page 58)


on
Here are the Facts
Tnrrmrrrm
lIMI
the Choice of the Experienced Man
on the Land for all Water Supply Needs
PROOF of the overall SUPERIORITY of Steel
Pipe over other types has long been established
—is still being established—on the basis of:
★ COSTS LESS—prices include all necessary couplings.
★ Not subject to damage by termites or rodents.
★ When laid above ground, minimum possibility of damage
by stock or fire.
jc No deterioration from sunlight.
★ Pressure capacity far greater than most other types.
★ Pressure ratings unaffected by atmospheric temperature
variations.
-jc Less likelihood of damage during installation, storing
and handling.
Intrinsic structural strength readily enables overhead,
vertical or building installations to be made with a
minimum of support.
These are the facts that have guided so many
shreivd buyers for so many years.
For OVERALL Performance and Satisfaction, SPECIFY
STEEL PIPE and ORDER Steel Pipe from your local
Hardware Store, Pastoral House
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (distributors) PTY. LTD.
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong, Launceston,
Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
69'T


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 16, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4179
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
CANBERRA PROGRAMME
'T'HE new Governor-General, when he
A opened the 23rd Federal Parlia-
ment’s second session, could have felt
that he was ploughing a rather barren
field.
The Government’s programme is
solid, but not spectacular. It is pre-
ventive rather than constructive or
imaginative, a sort of wholesale stop-
page of leaks, some of them large and
urgently in need of attention, though
unfortunately the work is to be carried
out with inadequate tools due to the
limitations of the Commonwealth
Constitution. And the Cabinet is com-
posed of lawyers rather than legis-
lators, economists or industrialists.
The legislation to be brought forward
will ratify the twelve-nation Antarctic
Treaty, modernise insurance legisla-
tion, revise the taxation system in New
Guinea, rectify the strange position in
the Northern Territory by placing the
Supreme Court, now only founded on
an ordinance, on a statutory basis,
amend the Electoral Act and legalise
scrutiny by Parliament of public-works
projects involving more than £250,000.
On the developmental side the Gov-
ernment will continue to support the
search for oil in Australia, the estab-
lishment of a beef-research project
which might easily have been initiated
and financed by the industry itself
years ago, and a co-operative effort
with the States to create a “permanent
conference” dealing with the search for
underground waters and their proper
use and conservation.
It proposes to ratify the agreement
to provide £2O million for rebuilding
the Townsville-Mt. Isa railway, a
much-needed project which will aid
the development of the vast mineral
belt which straddles the borders of
Queensland and the Northern Terri-
tory below the western corner of the
Gulf of Carpentaria.
The rest of the programme is mainly
uninspiring, though the passing of a
new uniform Marriage Act to do away
with the weird anomalies that exist
each side of the dotted lines that fence-
off States from each other is important,
and, taken together with the new
“Divorce Act,” shows unusual legisla-
tive enterprise.
TITTLE is said of defence. The Gov-
J - y ernment apparently feels that the
less attention called to its new
defence programme the better, though
it can expect considerable uproar, justi-
fied and otherwise, when opportunity
for debate occurs.
It has, however, decided that more
attention should be given to civil
defence, which has been seriously
neglected to the point that it scarcely
exists. The reason for this is pretty
plain, since any attempt to intro-
duce a really effective system would
immediately arouse the noisy opposi-
tion of Labor and of Communists who
are anxious, in the interests of “peace,”
to leave Australia as wide open as
possible.
Besides the extensive, but unobtru-
sive, measures taken in Europe, our
civil defence scarcely exists except as
an abstraction. The public cannot be
roused to do its share, and the authori-
ties have shown a remarkable lack of
imagination in publicising its needs.
Apart from these matters, it is quite
obvious that the Government’s main
preoccupations are economic and
industrial.
The proposal in the Governor-
General’s speech which has attracted
most attention is the matter of restric-
tion of competition, to which it has
pinned the always politically useful
label of “monopoly.”
It is novel in that the Prime Minister
has stolen the issue from Labor, which
had plans to raise the whole question
and make it a major underpinning of
a campaign for price-control.
The first mutters of this move were
heard in the N.S.W. Assembly in a
question about the uniformity of
tenders for work and materials for the
Sydney County Council only the day
before the Federal Government’s pro-
posals were outlined in the House of
Representatives.
The problem is not easy to deal
with. That the British Government
has acted in creating tribunals to define
illegal procedures and dissolve their
dangerous features does not say that
the Commonwealth with its half-and-
half powers can do the same effec-
tively, the British Parliament being
sovereign and the Federal Constitution
only a shandy-gaff.
It would, in fact, be easier for the
States to operate with a sure touch,
and it would have been in accord with
the platforms of the State A.L.P.
branches if action had been taken long
ago to prevent concerted fixation and
disclosure of prices and “rationalisa-
tion” between firms tendering for the
one job.
The elimination of competition has
been an inevitable consequence of the
creation of large-scale production and
“takeovers” in modern commercial life;
but though the Labor party talks long
and loud about the evils of the system,
it would run a mile before it faced the
issue in a practical and wholesale way.
Its own Socialism is based on the
conception of universal monopoly and
uniformity controlled by the State.
More immediately, some of the biggest
capitalistic supporters of its political
funds would smack the hands of Mr.
Heffron and his like very hard if they
attempted control.
Catch the United Licensed Vic-
tuallers’ Association allowing Labor to
inhibit the system under which the size
of beer-glasses and the price of liquor
are made grimly uniform under pain
of ruin from one corner of the State
to another!
And the same could apply with
many trade-unions which, when control
of the price-arrangements of groups or
associations began to have practical
effect, might find a lowering of costs
and prices resulted in a lowering of
wages.
A T present the Commonwealth’s
move in the matter is purely
exploratory, but the test of its success
will lie in whether it will succeed in
securing the same measure of co-opera-
tion from State Governments as it
secured from them in relation to the
Matrimonial Causes legislation.
Some of them already have consider-
able legislative powers, *as in New
South Wales, which are not limited by
the hobbles that are put on the Com-
monwealth by Section 51(i) of the
Constitution, which limits the Federa-
tion’s authority to make laws within
the ambit of “trade and commerce with
other countries and among the States.”
The old limit of intra-State power
applies here as in everything else the
Commonwealth tackles, and in any
case the interference with standard
price-fixing has effects of which the
ramifications in some cases might reach
right into the field of foreign invest-
ment with unpleasant results to the
interferer.
At the same time, there is no doubt
that the Government has a strong case
for action if it can find a way of moving
within the scope of its Constitution and
along lines which will not apply a
brake on expansion of individual
industries and the development of
free enterprise which is the heart of
Liberalism’s policy. It might find that
it can increase internal competition by
giving more consideration to the
younger type of business through an
amendment of private-company tax.


PLAYING THE PACHYDERM'S POSTERIOR
“You hop-in the back end after I get out, Whitlam; I’m going into the front legs at last!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Passing of Arthur
Arthur Augustus Calwell won the
A.L.P. leadership hands-down in the
House of Representatives. Senator
McKenna became leader in the Senate
once more, and Senator Kennedy deputy-
leader.
All these choices were expected. But
for the deputy-leadership in the Reps,
the favorite fell-down during the first
furlong of the race. It seemed that the
betting was likely to be on Ward, but the
story was put round that the other
three leaders were Roman Catholics and
that it would never do if a fourth member
of the faith were elevated. So E. J. Ward
went by the board, and Gough Whitlam
triumphed.
Mr. Ward has now slapped-down a
motion for next caucus providing for
expulsion from the party of anyone who
indulges in “sectarianism” for political
purposes.
This is a truly intimidating threat, for
on one side or the other almost everybody
in the Labor party has been engaged in
bitter sectarianism during the past three
years, and Ward is serving-up a tall order.
If all the guilty under his proposed rule
are punished, about 90 per cent, of
M.P.s and A.L.P. executives will have to
be heaved-out.
However, the elections, at any rate for
the time being, were settled, and Calwell
climbed into Dr. Evatt’s abandoned shoes
in a spirit of non-party goodwill that
would scarcely have existed in respect of
any other choice.
There was even a hope, in the light of
some of his recent speeches and actions,
that he might have decided that violence
of speech was out-of-date and have estab-
lished an atmosphere of commonsense
moderation in the leadership.
But he promptly rushed-in with a
stridently produced and slang-whang
want-of-confidence motion which marked
the passing of his reputation for effective
leadership forthwith.
It was all the old stuff. It condemned
the Government for “failing to check
inflation” and for “threatening the liveli-
hoods of thousands of Australian
workers” by lifting import-restrictions.
He condemned them for asking the
Arbitration Commission to alloiv time
for absorption by the economy of the
effects of two recent rises in wages directly
and through margins.
The whole effect of his argument
seemed to be that inflation could be cured
only by allowing free wage-rises against
a background of price-reduction, capital-
control and the exclusion or restriction of
inflow of overseas wealth imposed under
increased Commonwealth Constitutional
powers—which Mr. Calwell knows there
is little chance of the Government getting
at the moment.
Seeing that, as Mr. Menzies pointed-
out, the last two wage-increases given by
the Arbitration Commission have
amounted to £165 million a year more on
the Australian wages bill, and represent
£35 million more than total Australian
company profits (excluding mining
companies), as estimated by-the mover
of the motion, the no-confidence motion
virtually answered itself.
In fact, the only arguments used in its
favor were in the form of a sort of anti-
quarian parade of all the shibboleths and
bogeys which Labor took out of its
arsenal to win the elections of 1891 —“big
business anxious to push profits up,” the
“struggle of the wage-earner to provide
for his family,” the wicked “overseas
monopolist,” “the exploiter,” the
profiteer,” and the “racketeer” —to some
of whom, incidentally, the biggest blow of
the post-war years was undoubtedly the
disappearance of blackmarkets which
went out with the Chifley-Calwell
Government.
"Ridiculous" Land Prices
The description by Hora.ce Petty, Vic-
torian Minister for Housing, of the prices
being paid for suburban land in Mel-
bourne as ridiculous may, in these times,
seem reactionary, but even a cursory
look at some of the recent sales show
that land is at least as highly priced, and
sought, as some of the most overboomed
stocks on ’Change.
Recent sales of small estates in Haw-
thorn and Sandringham, pleasant but
not top-ranking suburbs, include small
lots for around £4OOO, and old houses
with 60ft. to 70ft. frontages in fashion-
able Toorak are being bought as flat-
sites for prices like £12,000.
The Minister’s latest warning, of
course, relates chiefly to outer-suburban
land where there has been a headlong
rush, presumably by young, inexperi-
enced persons, for land irrespective of its
real value now or of its potential value in
a decade.
In many of these areas there will be
no public-utility services for many years,
and the costs of retaining the blocks at
their inflated prices will fall heavily on
the mostly young owners.
The fact must be faced that this is not
the Minister’s first warning about the
high prices being paid for land in fringe
areas, and since he issued his first
courageous warning to the young public
prices have, nonetheless, continued to
rise.
In these circumstances he .is to be
commended more heartily for his latest
announcement.
Inflation and the Constitution
[From Canberra]
New Opposition-leader Calwell obviously
aimed at, and succeeded in, putting Prime
Minister Menzies on the spot by asking
him to come out and declare himself for
or against increased Commonwealth
power.
In issuing the challenge, Calwell had
the backing of the joint Constitutional
Review Committee, which, in its pigeon-
holed report, recommended such an
increase in power for the Common-
wealth.
The history of referendums in this
country has shown that any proposal
submitted to the people without the sup-
port of the two major political parties is
almost cerainly doomed to failure.
On the other hand, where support for
any proposed Constitutional alteration
has been unanimous, the proposal has
usually been accepted and endorsed by
the people.
In answering Calwell, the P.M. said:
“An attempt to alter the Constitution is
no way to deal with an immediate and
pressing problem such as inflation.
“You don’t just say you will amend
the Constitution and get it amended
tomorrow.”
Menzies should have remembered that
the present inflation in Australia,
although aggravated by recent wage- and
cost-increases, is not an “immediate and
pressing problem” which has just con-
fronted the Government.
It has been a problem on the Gov-
ernment’s hands, one way or another,
ever since it assumed office in 1949.
Without condemning the Opposition
challenge out of hand, whether it was
inspired by political expediency or not,
Mr. Menzies could have at least offered
to consider it as a possible long-range
solution to the problem.
However, Calwell’s “remedies” for
dealing with inflation, whether under a
new Constitution or under the old one,
are unlikely, on his own statements, to
be acceptable to any responsible
economist. One thing necessary to the
curbing of inflation would be the pre-
vention of any State from legislating for
a shorter working-week.
"Flugraum"
The old Hitlerite slogan of Lebens-
raum —living-space—for teeming Ger-
mans has appeared in a new defence
context in the past few weeks as a
demand from Herr Strauss, West German
Minister for Defence, for Flugraum —
flying-room—for the new West German
Luftwaffe, plus Lagernraum —storage-
room —for German war materials.
The West of Europe, getting smaller
with the hurtling speeds of aircraft and
the nearness of Russian missile-sites, is
faced with new problems in these matters
not only in respect of Germany but of
every nation threatened by Communism.
The first move in the search for
various kinds of space came from Ger-
many, which was accused by the United
States press and the Nato commander
of having gone behind the back of Nato
to make an arrangement to establish
German war-dumps in Spain. This move
was held by part of the press to “shock
the world” in the light of the alliance
between Franco and Hitler in the
Spanish Civil War, and the fact that the
Luftwaffe was trained by him there as
a pipe-opener to the attack on Poland.
It was represented that this might be
a natural precedent to another German
assault on civilisation.
All the propagandists seemed to forget
that in plain fact it was Moscow which
enabled Hitler to train enough officers


for his huge armies secretly and in con-
travention of the Versailles Treaty, thus
making World War II possible.
Next, Herr Strauss suggested that if
the Western allies within Nato objected
to his having caches of reserve war-
material well behind the German defence-
lines in Spain, the United Kingdom
should provide space, under, of course,
proper controls, as it does with the
United States.
It was hard to find official ground
within Nato for rejecting the German
suggestion, and still less for refusing to
consider the further one that German
aircraft —American Starfighters—should
be allowed to fly over British territory
and land on British R.A.F. aerodromes
as part of their normal training. They
would have to use U.K. aerodromes in
war.
The feeble argument was put forward
that it wpuld be absurd that the Ger-
mans should have bases far back in
Britain when Britain was laying-down
bases in West Germany—this taking no
account of the fact that Britain has also
reserve-bases as far afield as Canada and
Australia.
It was with relief that many leaders,
on the edge of Khrushchev’s visit to
France, heard the U.S. Ambassador to
West Germany undo the effects of the
Norstad statement with the remark that
he saw no reason why Uncle Sam should
object to West Germany making its own
arrangements for bases in Spain.
If Nato is to be worth anything it
must have complete interchange of
facilities. And one of its chief _ and
primary tactical aims must be to keep
Western Germany in the war, if over-
run.
Selling at Moomba
Melbourne’s Moomba season expanded
this year, chiefly by the introduction of
more events for the minor sports and
interests, and the opening of the
Alexandra Gardens to family parties to
see displays without the charges that
had restricted entry in earlier years.
On an intellectual level, however,
Moomba is not advancing. This is prob-
ably because its promoters are
unashamedly out to capture The Mob ;
and it is, of course, the people who keep
open Myer’s and Coles’s and the doors of
the other generous shopkeepers who
provide most of the funds for the
carnival.
Still, the Australian Book Fair was
missed, and it probably rankled with a
substantial section of Melburnians,
especially as one of the chief reasons
given for elbowing out the bookmen was
that they were indulging in “blatant
selling.” Apparently the protagonists do
not want Moomba’s commercialism to
become too obvious.
The other events above the general
Moomba level went off successfully. The
National Theatre, with the indefatigable
Gertrude Johnson still breezily in charge,
put on interesting, if not world-standard,
operas and ballets ; “Burst of Summer,”
Oriel Gray’s fine Australian prize-
winning play, is packing them in ; the
orchestral concerts at the Music Bowl
have been well received; and the out-
door art-show in the Treasury Gardens
has come to be one of Melbourne’s
pleasantest annual attractions.
The outdoor show has been copied
throughout the world, as the Governor
pointed-out when he opened it for the
seventh time. About 250,000 people see
it every year, and the artists sell annually
£4OOO of paintings—blatantly, of course.
Red Solidarity
From a minor battle of tactics in which
the travelling-public suffered, the go-
slow strike on the Victorian Railways is
now developing, and on familiar lines —
Communist lacky Brown v. the State
Government.
This became clear when the Victorian
waterside workers held a stopwork meet-
ing, in defiance of the court, and voted
to ban work on Sundays in Victorian
ports. The meeting was called by the
executive committee, the strings . having
been pulled by their Red masters in a
desperate effort to show “union
solidarity” behind Brown.
Brown, however, seems fated to lose
yet another strike. The Railways Com-
missioners have countered each union
move limiting overtime by further cuts
in services, and the latest proposal, to
leave small stations unmanned after 9.30
at night when the call for tickets has
almost ended, would cut deeply into
railwaymen’s earnings.
State Cabinet has shown a realistic
and determined approach to the
Communist-led strike, and this has
strengthened the commissioners in their
resolve that the dispute, originally for
service-grant payments, should be settled
at arbitration and nowhere else.
The Premier’s public statements on the
issue are, however, a little more steely
since the strike struck home last week
when the Cabinet could not travel to
Mildura by its special train and had
to fly.
Other People's Property
The Fivedock (Sydney) treasure-hoard
which hit the front pages last week had
all the elements of the ideal treasure-
story. It was hard cash, it was hidden
in a circus yard, it was found by
children and its owners could not, for the
moment, be traced.
There were, moreover, other interest-
ing points about it. It had apparently
been known to a small group of school-
boys for about three months, and,
although some of them had been spend-
ing lavishly, their secret had not leaked-
out.
Sydney afternoon papers and one of
the morning sheets “went to town” on
the story. Between them they placed
the number of boys in-the-know as
anything between four and 100. They
told of youngsters buying air-guns,
bicycles, transistor-radios, sweets and
drinks galore ; of one lad who paid his
mates £5 a day to carry his books (later
denied by the boy, who said he didn’t
give more than 10s. because he didn’t like
wasting money); another who paid his
little sister 10s. a day “not to annoy
him.” The same boy was reported to
have paid up to £2O to other lads for
postage-stamps for his collection.
The amount accounted for by the
police is £40,100. How much was there
in the first place is anybody’s guess.
The disturbing thing about the press
reports —the “Herald” was the honorable
exception—was the tone of their report-
ing, which seemed to imply that the boys
were the heroes of a youthful escapade.
But the lads concerned are aged about
12 or 13 and are quite old enough to
know that the money they found wasn’t
theirs. A second point that naturally
arises is the apparent complacency of
several of the boys’ parents towards their
offsprings’ sudden wealth. Don’t parents
any longer feel surprised when johnny
comes home with a new bike or radio for
which they haven’t supplied the money?
The Die Is Cast
[From Canberra]
Real interest in the caucus election of
A.L.P. leaders was the defeat of odds-on
favorite Eddie Ward by 44-year-old
Gough Whitlam for the deputy-
leadership.
In preferring Whitlam to Ward, the
rank-and-file showed deliberate fore-
thought—a. thing missing from Labor
caucus for many years—and placed the
future of the party before personal likes
and dislikes'
Almost everything was in Ward's favor
—nearly 30 years’ service as a member,
a stickler for party rules, a fiery debater
and an experienced Minister.
What he didn’t count on was the fact
that many of the younger members don’t
want to remain in Opposition forever.
They have Ministerial ambitions, and the
only hope of achieving them was to elect
a future leader who might have popular
appeal to the electors, could adapt his
Labor principles to contemporary condi-
tions and give the party a chance of
victory.
It was a bitter blow to Ward.
The first ballot resulted in Ward 28
votes, Whitlam 22, Haylen 12 and
Harrison 10.
This put Ward six votes in front with
22 to be counted, of which he was certain
he would get at least half.
The first shock came when six of
Harrison’s votes went to Whitlam and
only four to Ward, reducing his margin
to four.
Ward was still at an unbackable price
at this stage, with 12 votes to be distri-
buted and he four in front. It was a case
of the horse having to fall over to be
beaten. It did.
Whitlam received 10 of Haylen's 12 to
give him a 38/34 margin.
Likeable Frank Crean, who allowed
himself to be used, although unwittingly,
came out of it all rather badly by
nominating unexpectedly and then just as
unexpectedly withdrawing.
Had Crean stayed there, he would not
have won, but he might have alteied the
result.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T> ode with a Brisbane taxidriver
who claimed the following record:
64 years of age, 43 years as a taxidriver,
average 58,000 miles per year, worn-out
21 cabs, no accidents, no driving offences,
bashed by thugs three times. Says he
likes the job. 1 believe him.—“Mitron.”
“U.U.M.P.”: A bookmaker, receiving
several replies to his advertisement for
a clerk, decided to conduct a quiz. The
youngest applicant answered all ques-
tions so brilliantly that the prospective
employer suspected some secret vice—
otherwise why should one so young and
intellectual seek such a comparatively
lowly occupation? Questions as to
gambling and women having been
answered to the bookmaker’s satisfac-
tion, drink remained. “What is Vat 69?”
he asked. Obviously perplexed, the youth
answered, “This will only be a guess, but
is it the Pope’s telephone-number?”
*> *> *X*
“Narumee”: Notice in suburban
store: “Only forty-three shopping weeks
till Christmas!”
A A A
♦ V V
“Eureka”: In the train from Newcastle
(N.S.W.) a youth boasted that he had
been in all the reformatories and jails in
N. S. Wales. “I’ve just come from the
Intermediate,” he told me; and then
explained that the Gosford reformatory
was known as the Intermediate, Yasmar
at Ashfield as the Kindergarten, Berrima
as the Primary and Emu Plains as the
Leaving. Long Bay is the University.
<< *
“Bris”: Umpiring at square-leg, at
the fall of the first wicket 1 heard the
other opening-bowler murmur to him-
self, “There goes my chance of ' ten
wickets.”
❖ ❖ *X*
“Mugga Way”: Pictures of Mr. K.
being garlanded by Balinese flower-giris
show how sadly the island has declined
as a tourist lure—although there are
reports that the little blouse is worn only
in the towns, and that the lasses in the
kampongs still go as unadorned as they
did until 1945 or so. The Dutch
encouraged the time-honored semi-
"Reddened any good backs lately?"
nudity as a pleasant custom for visitors
and residents alike ; the Indonesians have
discouraged it as an indication of back-
wardness—although forwardness might
be a better description ; indeed, had the
Balinese girls persisted they might have
become fashion-leaders in a field whose
most outstanding Western examples,
Sabrina, Jayne Mansfield and Marilyn
Monroe, are still a few inches of cloth
behind them.
❖ * *
“Banker’s Wife”: Asked my son how
the driving-lesson went. “Pretty good
tonight,” he said “Dad only had five
cigarettes.”
* <♦
“Joanne”: More and more small men
are taking an interest in share-trading,
and the daily papers are devoting more
space to Stock Exchange transactions and
advice to investors. In the Sydney indus-
trial suburb of Auburn there is a sur-
prisingly keen interest in the upturn and
downturn of shares; the N. S. Wales
Education Department has made history
by opening a class at the Auburn evening
college in which students are taught
’Change procedure and given advice on
how best to invest savings.
*x* +x+ *x*
“J.C.8.”: On the way home with a
patient from the Eye and Ear Hospital,
an ambulance-driver and his mate
stopped and went over to give what help
they could at a road accident. They had
no sooner gone than the patient in the
ambulance heard the Voice of the Master
over the intercom.: “Ringwood. Ring-
wood 44. Come in Ringwood.” To which
she replied, from where she was sitting,
“There’s an accident by the roadside
here, and they’ve both gone over.” Came
again the voice of authority. “Ring-
wood 44. Your location please. Over.”
“I tell you they’ve both gone to the
accident.” “Come in Ringwood '44.
Where are you?” “How should I know
where we are? Pipe down, you cranky
old windbag.” And to the driver, who
returned.a few minutes later: “That fore-
man of yours has been on your wheel.
But I told him where he got off, and
he’s quietened down.”
❖ *X* *X*
“B. A. Ker”: To “get the bullet” or
to be “given the bullet” always used to
mean to be given the sack, to be tramped,
hunted, fired, chucked-out or given the
order of the boot. Bui it doesn’t at the
Australian swimming championships,
where I saw half-a-dozen of the most
popular people in the country given the
bullet —Dawn Fraser, John Konrads and
co. The bullets they were given were
out of the starting-pistol which sent them
on their way to victory. I am aware
that starting-pistols do not fire bullets and
that the souvenirs presented were actually
cartridge-cases, but the president of the
association called ’em bullets, and bullets
they will always be while the impressive
and appropriate little ceremony lives.
THE GIRL AT THE EXHIBITION
I see surprise in the stillness of your
shoulders
And puzzled tilt of head and aimless
arms :
As if the colors of these abstract suns and
boulders
Provoked comparison to your shopgirl
charms.
Let us be honest, O querying girl at the
exhibition,
Confused before a wall of whirling paint;
For in honesty we find a culmination
And a concrete reason, even if it’s doubt.
You and l, shopgirl, can not explain such
work,
So forgive me if l marvel at your
presence,
Although I would not interrupt your
thoughts to ask
What moves you, little shopgirl, to such
silence.
n.s.w.
ADRIAN WINTLE.


A Melbourne firm advertises tables,
chairs, umbrellas, cane lounges and
barbecues for the “outdorium,” i.e., the
backyard. —“Nomin.”
❖ +>
“Joanne”: Policewoman Dorothy
Imrie, of Roseville (Sydney), was kissed —
and not too skilfully—by scores of
schoolchildren of Gordon public school.
They were farewelling her after she had
given them protection on the busy Pacific
Highway for two years. Miss Imrie is
to wed Flight-Lieut. John Sherwood, 38
Squadron, R.A.A.F., Richmond, in Can-
berra on March 27. Her duties have
included lecturing at schools on road-
safety, and she has also appeared on a
regular TV-session. The Sherwoods’
home for the next two years will be in
Malaya.
■*£«• ♦*«- ♦J*-
“Jasby”: Stanley Brogden (B. 9/ 3 / ’6O)
gives Houdini the credit lor the first
flight in Australia by a powered-
heavier-than-air machine, placing the
date of the flight as March 1,
1910, and of a second flight as
March 4, 1910. Is there any record in
the Melbourne papers of the period to
substantiate these dates? Brogden speaks
of “more than 30 people” signing a
document stating that they had witnessed
the second flight, but adds, “I often wish
I could find one of them.” Was this
document signed on the day of the flight
or at some subsequent date? The
Bulletin files for early 1910 make no
mention of either flight, although the
“Sporting Notions” pages of that time
made frequent reference to flying per-
formances in England, France and
America and the paper was obviously
interested in aviation. Fred Custance’s
Adelaide flight was mentioned (B.
24/3/1910):
Last Thursday F. C. Custance, in his
Bleriot monoplane, struck a height record
(for Australasia) of about 50ft. and covered
about three miles of country in smin.
25sec. Also, a little later, the monoplane
struck the earth more or less violently;
but Custance took the precaution to alight
on his head so no harm was done to him,
whilst the machine was only slightly
damaged. Next day Houdini tore himself
away from the chains and bars and bolts
by means of which he earns a handsome
income, and packed himself into a Voisin
biplane.... Houdini was not so successful
with the biplane as he is with padlocks.
Try as he might, he couldn’t get out of
the machine, which made three successful
flights, the longest being Custance
and Houdini each claims to be the first
serious flying man in Austraila, and this
paper, not desirous of being visited by an
indignant monoplane or biplane in its
upper story, leaves it at that.
As far as The Bulletin was concerned
Houdini’s publicity-man was also appar-
ently prepared to leave it at that, as no
protest or mention of earlier flights
appeared in subsequent issues. But what
did Melbourne papers say on the subject?
❖ +>
“Ailsey”: In the N. S. Wales lottery-
office queue the young cove two from
me remarked that he’d unearthed three
gold coins that day while demolishing
a residential in the Haymarket (Sydney).
We recognised the coins as sovereigns.
As one was minted in 1856,1 advised him
to take it to a numismatist, because it
might bring more than the £3 12s. that
*he Commonwealth Bank pays. “No,” he
said, “it’s the bank for me in the morn-
mg. He called his syndicate Golden
Sovei eigns, and as we left the office we
“I’m sick and tired of squatting in the same
possie for a thousand years!"
wished one another good luck. The
sovereign-finder certainly was in luck;
when the results came out I could tell,
by my number, that he’d collected a
tenner ; the other investor and I got nil.
❖ ❖ »I<
“Narumee”j Like the Sydney “Letter”
(B. 2/3/’6O) I also have a book claiming
to list national recipes. Those under the
heading “Australia” are “Rice Plum
Pudding,” “Nutties” (biscuits made with
packaged cornflakes), “Lemon Sago
Pudding” and “Pan Scone, or Damper.”
“Freddie D.”: In the good old days in
China, when no one dreamed of handing
over money, especially in a club or hotel
a friend and I were having a few snorts
in a well-known honkytonk in Hankow’s
“Dumpenstrasse,” and an argument
started, whether the Chinese boys could
recognise the thousands of signatures
scrawled across the
chits. My friend
called for a round
and when the chit
came, signed “Saint
Peter,” the Chinese
boy looked at it for
a moment and then,
without a smile,
said: “This no
blong you, Mr.
Sanders. This b’long
topside. You blong
bottomside.”
♦♦♦ *X* ♦♦♦
“Ailsey”: Boola-
roo (N.S.W.) Apex
Club members who
were helping fill-in
cards when an X-
ray unit paid a visit
were confronted
by a characteristic
turner-up. “Had an
X-ray before?” they
asked. “No. What’s
it all about? All I
know is that some-
one said we all had
to come here
tonight.”
❖ ❖
“Bo”: The varied
bedside-manners of
doctors I have ever
found a fascinating
study. There’s the
long - dialled cove
with the corners of
his mouth drawn
down like a shark’s
who is mentally
measuring you up
for the casket as he
lugubriously reaches
for his stethoscope ;
the bloke with the
bedside-manners of
a petrified egg who
regards your query
as to what’s wrong
with you as an
unwarranted intru-
sion into his private
thoughts; the testy
cow who makes it plain that you’re
damned inconsiderate in getting an
agonising pain and bringing him out in
the cold, and that he’d like nothing better
than to order a spot of thallium in the
mist. pot.; the snappy one who does
an Olympian hop, step and jump to your
bedside, whizzes through the drill while
yapping at 240 per, and leaps out again
as if the Devil was just behind him and
about to spear him in the stern with his
fork ; the matey bird who drapes himself
over the edge of the bed and holds forth
on this and that until in the end you


have almost apologetically to mention
you are crook; the detached, haughty
fellow who regards all non-doctors as
quarter-wits who barely qualify for
inclusion in the human race. And then,
of course, there’s the happy character
who bounces in with great bonhomie
and a well-we’ll-have-you-up-again-in-no-
time air. He s my favorite, but there are
times when even his cheerfulness can be
wearing—as when I collected a virus on
my seaside holiday. The beaming medico
who answered the summons laughingly
said what I'd clicked for, roared at my
stiffness in doing-in four days surfing in
cold blood, merrily described the exhila-
rating dip he himself had had earlier
that day, joyously mentioned what a
glorious day it was outside, then breezed
out exuding buoyant waggishness. Had
"Isn't this varlet one of your ex-boyfriends?”
we lived in the Middle Ages I would, in
like circs., have handed him over to my
private strangler! '
❖ * ❖
“Banker’s Wife”: In all his banking
career my husband has never been paid
in gold sovereigns (B. 17/2/’6O), but he
once got one in exchange for sixpence.
Grovelling on hands and knees in the
dark recesses of the strongroom, he was
raking under safes and things to locate
sixpence with which to balance his cash.
Suddenly he raked in - a shining gold
sovereign, dated 1830. We’ve kept it as
proof of a shining six-penn’orth.
♦> *
“Millswyn”: “N.S.” shouldn’t worry
about his accountant telling him to do
something voluntary that was, in fact,
compulsory (B. 2/3/’60).. Many of my
ex-comrades of the dear old R.A.A.F.
will recall, with tenderest recollection,
certain periods of “guided relaxation.”
poR half-a-century we’ve been hearing
of blokes who have “shot-
through like a Bondi tram.” But now
the Bondi trams themselves have shot-
through.—“Jasby.”
♦ + ♦
*** v ***
“Angus McScupper”: At the risk of
cluttering this page with old clothes (B.
2/3/’6O) I record my operative dress-
shoes—made in Sydney, 1922, toecapless,
Russia patent-leather, 3/16in. soles and
costing £3. They sustained a fair
bachelor terpsichorean mileage on N.Z.
kauri at the St. Kilda Palais, on ipil at the
Manila Hotel and on rockheart maple at
the San Francisco Mark Hopkins, besides
hiking many a highway after the last
tram had gone. Up the aisle on ’em in
1931, and sedately waltzed at the
children’s twenty-first do’s. They never
■ even ' shrank when, at son’s wedding,
they had the base role to a pair of hired
striped-pants. They have never been
coddled. It would be foolish to dispute
their crowsfeet amidships. Never gone
through the soles (or anywhere else) they
still assert quality from the birch-bark
tanner blended with the craftsmanship of
the bespoke bootmaker.
❖❖ - *
“Dix”: The mechanical device which
many doctors use for explaining to
telephone-callers their absence from the
surgery—it gives alternative numbers —
almost cost a suburban doctor one of
his oldest and richest patients. When the
caller dialled the surgery number she
heard a voice which she recognised as
her doctor’s: “This is doctor speaking.
You may contact me by calling XXX,”
which he repeated several times. Then,
to the intense annoyance of his patient,
he hung-up. When the woman saw him
later in the day she asked why he had
been so offhand with her when she
phoned. It took at least five minutes and
a practical demonstration of how the
mechanical recorder works to convince
her that she hadn’t been snubbed.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Queenslander-Now”: Because of no
applications for a vacant cottage for a
pensioner, Yungaburra (Q.) has asked
Eacham Shire to make inquiries for a
suitable tenant. All other States have
such long waiting-lists that the applicants
often die while they await accommoda-
tion. As a welfare-worker in Victoria
I often had letters returned because the
applicant had found accommodation “out
of this world.”
♦♦♦ +♦♦
“No Charge”: Having a tannin-
soaked stomach-lining, aided and abetted
by a holey liver, both self-inflicted, I
would proffer a suggestion. For a good
cuppa, try making it with an immersion-
heater. Place in teapot, remove on boil,
throw in tea-leaves to desired taste,, don’t
spoil by gulping. After all, it follows the
pattern of billy tea and only good cold
beer beats that.
THE VITAL FACTOR
“Refined gent., m.a., non-smoker, lifelong
t.t., keen walker, hobby 'coin-collecting, would
seek acquaintance lady to 40, sharing similar
views and interests.” —View Mat. ad.
He’d sowed no wild-oats, nary a grain,
And, if he had, it’s pretty plain
They never would have germinated.
From youth his thinking was designed
On patterns of restraint; his mind
To seriousness was dedicated.
If given the choice, he’d rather bleed
Than suck smoke from a fragrant weed
Or do with beer .as was intended
By those who brew the stuff. His bride
Can rest assured in him reside
Only those traits to be commended.
Picture the twain ! Not to a hop
To cut a rug and do be-bop,
Watch gory crimes on television,
Nor pick the middle to a straight
Such nightly pastimes unsedate
Would rouse in them a deep derision.
They’d go for walks round several blocks
Until they both went in the hocks;
Then home for a discussion thrilling
Upon the beauties of a trey
Without a head, on hopes they may
Chance on an unserrated shilling.
Perhaps he may unearth a wife
To suit his austere way of life;
Of tastes, it’s clear, there’s no disputing.
There must be dames who would regard
Dull, prosy coves as ideal pard
As well as those who’d say that shooting
Should be their fate. Well, anyway,
I’d deem it fairly safe to say
His bride-elect won’t have neglected
To exercise reality
By giving this point two thoughts, or
three :
Just how much coin has he collected ?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Dream Girl
By JACK LUSBY
Doc. Jimmy is young to
be a missionary. So
young the loneliness
shows on his face. It
shows now in his eagerness to
say hullo.
Doc. Jimmy stands at the
edge of the strip against a
dark, restive backdrop of
natives. His white shirt and
slacks flick in the fringe of the
slipstream, his face is tilted
towards the cockpit of the
plane.
Ames looks gravely down at
Doc., gives the big radial a
thunderous clearing burst and
cuts the switches. Opens the
cockpit door as the fan stops
and reaches the grass via a
strut and a landing-tyre in two
lithe monkey-movements. He
strides over to Doc. Jimmy,
fishing a tin of fifty from his
pants.
“ ’Lo there, ‘ Doc. Smoke?”
“Ames, man, I’d ha’ walked
here for that only!”
Doc. Jimmy really suffers
after his smokes run out.
Sometimes gets down to roll-
ing trade, sometimes sweats it
out for the good of his soul.
Ames always carried spares on
his rounds.
“You got maybe a box or
two for me?” Doc. blows a
luxurious plume of smoke.
“Yeah.” Ames spots a native
he knows. “Hullo, Meho!”
He walks with Meho to the
cargo door, opens it, points at
two wooden cases stowed
handy. Points to Doc. Jimmy.
Meho grins and nods. Calls
four of his men. Ames walks
back to Doc. Jimmy.
Ames is. long, stringy, burned
dark by wind and sun. Blue
eyes, bony cheekbones and
bleached hair. In years not
much ahead of Doc. Jimmy.
Doc. Jimmy looks like a
snubnosed teenager straight
out of a “Saturday Evening
Post” illustration. Only dif-
ference sallow-olive skin and
faint shadows under the eyes.
TiTEHo’s men, grunting four-
cornered advice, lower a
case gently to the grass. Doc.
Jimmy and Ames sit on it.
“Medical,” says Doc., pat-
ting the case. “Penicillin,
sulpha, paludrine. Canned
milk and compressed vitamins.
Sure enough need 'em.”
“Keeping you busy?”
“They’re coming in from
clear over in the Kimiki.”
“Kimiki men!”
“They’re okay, man, when
they’re sick or wounded.”
“How the hell do they walk
up over a ten-thousand-foot
pass sick or wounded?”
“Fella can’t make it, his
buddies carry him.”
“Or her?”
“Quite a few hers.”
“And these Ngapoas don't
kill ’em?”
“There’s a kinda truce if
they’re just coming to my
place.”
The second case arrives with
a flourish. “Thanks, Meho.
Here.” Ames finds some
tobacco sticks in a pants-
pocket and distributes them.
“Ames, you got a pants-
pocket like a Woolworth
store.”
“Doc., does the Administra-
tion know about this Kimiki-
Ngapoa truce round your
place? They’ve been killing
one another for about five-
thousand years.”
“What the New Guinea
Administration don't know
you could fit in a thousand-
acre field.”
“Don’t talk Texas, Doc.
They get to know everything
in time. I’ll let ’em know this.
Do you no harm. Ever think
of going on with it—become a
real doctor?”
“I'm a missionary now. And
I can do most ordinary things
a doc. has to do. Right here’s
my place.”
Doc. Jimmy runs his eyes
round the great horseshoe of
squatting tribesmen, paradise
plumes nodding like poppies
in a breeze, puppet-painted
faces turning this way and that,
soft hands in ballet gestures,
holding tall spears stuck butt-
first in the soft earth, or finger-
ing the short, fierce bows;
feeling the points of the fire-
hardened arrows. Doc. Jimmy’s
young eyes rest on the men
with affection and his ears
catch the talk with under-
standing.
Behind the men, over the
silver wing of the plane, the
sullen mountain rears two
miles up into slow-tumbling
cloud. Doc. Jimmy lets his
eyes slide down and sweep
along the green valley, walled
on its far side by smoky-blue
ramparts blotched with cloud-
shadows and marked with the
white threads of waterfalls.
Smoke lifts lazily from native
fires and hangs in the warm
noon air. Mountain New
(Continued on page 32)


POLITICAL POINTS
Almost to a man newspaper prophets
correctly tipped Arthur Calwell as
Federal Labor’s new leader, and most of
them also picked Gough Whitlam as
second-in-command. But the voting was
closer than most had anticipated. Cal-
well beat Pollard 42-30 and Whitlam,
after Harrison and Haylen had been
eliminated, defeated Ward 38-34.
• •
The strike of Hollywood film-stars is
expected to have a serious effect on Aus-
tralian TV - programmes—in about 25
years’ time.
• •
There’s said to be a plan afoot to
increase the number of seats in the
N. S. Wales Assembly from 94 to 100.
Anyone who can think-up some good
arguments in favor of the move had
better send them to Chief Secretary Gus
Kelly. He’ll need them if he has the
hide to introduce an enabling bill.
• •
China is showing no mealy-mouthed
desire for peace. It has apparently sent
Khrushchev’s doves home by unregistered
parcel-post and is abusing in good round
Mandarin his easy manners with the
Indonesians and his desire to seek accord
with the United States. And the abuse
has become louder since K. failed to
insist that his joint declaration of aims
with Soekarno should contain a demand
that Red China be admitted to U.N.
Soekarno scratched that bit out and his
visitor let it go.
At the same time, if news from China
is accurate, this sudden burst of dissen-
sion may merely be cover-up for other
things. It has been reported in the Indian
Parliament that on March 28 Peking will
explode its first nuclear bomb near
Urumchi, having built it with Russian
aid. If the report is right, the explosion
appears to be the starting-gun for Chou
En-lai’s friendly visit to Delhi next
month.
If the bomb is exploded it’ll be far
more a Russian bang than a Chinese one.
It could well be Moscow’s way of test-
ing new atomic weapons outside the
gentlemen’s agreement to suspend tests.
© •
Wasting no time on running-in exer-
cises, Labor’s new leaders jumped
straight into the fray on Thursday with
a no-confidence motion attacking the
Government’s failure to deal with infla-
tion. They’d have been wiser to wait
for a more suitable issue. The Govern-
ment is open to attack on inflation, but
scarcely from Labor, whose whole politi-
cal and industrial policy seems based just
on inflation..
• •
The report of the N.S.W. Commis-
sioner of Police that three officers have
been dismissed for improper conduct, but
that he can’t tell anybody who they are or
what they are supposed to have done
because they have appealed to a higher
tribunal, is another instance of the special
privileges the civil service enjoys. If
policemen are dismissed —especially if,
as the press has alleged, it is for serious
offences connected with smuggling—
surely the public has a right to know
and the men concerned have the right to
a public trial.
• •
Heffron’s happy family seems to be
having more than its share of domestic
squabbles, with the Wynyard-Plaza deal
the chief cause of current dissension.
With the Attorney-General and a former
Attorney - General offering different
advice on the legality of the deal, Cabinet
is seeking outside opinion. It’s not
usually considered wise to seek outside
advice on family squabbles.
• •
An election to fill the N. S. Wales Legis-
lative Council vacancy caused by the
death of R. A. King will be held on
March 29. Choice of a Labor candidate
is setting the A.L.P. a problem. Unless
they can find a name that is also accept-
able to the seven rebels expelled just
before Christmas they may find them-
selves down another member in the
Council.
On the verge of his visit, Khrushchev
has asked the French to excuse him for
a while on the ground of an- attack of
influenza. As he has shown signs of
illness for some time, there may be more
in it. There are various kinds of
influenza in Moscow.
• •
After four years, diplomatic relations
between Australia and Egypt have been
resumed. Australia has appointed a
charge d’affaires to Cairo, but no
Egyptian has so far been delegated to
Canberra. Perhaps Nasser is holding
the job open for himself in case his Arab
rival Kassem decides to put the finger
on him.
• •
Twenty political parties will take part
in the election in Ceylon this month.
Several hundred candidates are contest-
ing the 145 constituencies which return
a total of 151 members, and a note-
worthy feature of the nominations is
that seven husband-and-wile pairs are
contesting seats. In each case the hus-
band and wife belong to the same party.
• •
[From Canberra]
Proposed attempts by Eddie Ward to provoke
a first-class row in caucus on the sectarian
issue are expected to be squashed very quickly.
Ward last week gave notice that he would
move that the caucus recommend to the
Federal Executive the expulsion of anyone
indulging in sectarianism. Elis reported motive
is that sectarian influence cost him the deputy-
leadership.
The fact that the ballot is over and done
with, and that the Opposition is now seeking
to reunite the warring factions both inside
and outside Parliament, seems certain to sound
the death-knell to Ward’s motion. Neither
Calwell nor the majority of the party want
a repetition of the vicious caucus meetings
of 1954 and 1955, when the sectarian issue
split the party from side to side and top
to bottom.
It is probable that the A.L.P. executive
meeting, which precedes the full caucus meet-
ing, will provide more fireworks than the
caucus, and will instruct Ward to withdraw
his notice of motion.
"Can't you do something about towing IT away?”


Calwell denies that his appointment as
A.L.P. leader has anything of the care-
taker element about it. He professes to
feel certain of leading Labor to victory
against “a caretaker Government,”
probably next year. If the Menzies
menage is a caretaker Government it
must deserve the prize for the most-
endorsed caretaker in history. It has won
five elections in succession, and each
win has followed a Calwellian prophesy
of its certain defeat.
• •
What’s all this about the hard-
heartedness of banks? According to a
report one of them has just forgiven one
of its clients £700,000 of a £1 -million debt.
Which bank? The Rural Bank of N. S.
Wales. Same institution has previously
shown forbearance on an even more
generous scale to the Metropolitan
Cement Co. What’s more, it never seeks
publicity for its acts of charity. Quite
the reverse.
• •
Sydney aldermen have suddenly turned
against the tow-away system, and it is
announced that the existing tow-away
pound in Phillip Street may be abandoned.
This is a pity. The pound is next to the
official information-centre set-up for
tourists, and the sight of a policeman
apparently incarcerated behind its high
wire fence in charge of vehicles was about
the most edifying and unusual spectacle
Australia’s oldest city had to offer.
• •
Peter Howson, Liberal member for
Fawkner (Vic.), is on the carpet with the
local party-members for refusing to take
back to Canberra a motion protesting
against the salary-rises last year. South
Yarra branch says it won’t endorse him
for the seat next year.
• •
Alderman Harry Jensen and retinue
have left on their three weeks’ trip to
London and New York to interview pro-
spective buyers of a block of land in
Martin Place. The Lord Mayor
is resentful that anybody should
demur to his spending several thousand
pounds of public money on this trip, but
he has failed to explain why it would not
be better to bring the prospective buyers
here so that the purchase could be
debated on the spot.
Before his departure Jensen said that
criticism of his trip meant that he
wouldn't start-off with the enthusiasm
he would normally have had, and that it
was “not a happy beginning to the
expedition.” He’s not the only one
feeling unhappy about it, especially since
it has come-out that sealed tenders for
the land-deal close on March 31 and
that he is apparently to hold discussions
with someone who has already made an
open bid.
• •
The French Government has exiled 800
persons during Khrushchev’s visit to
France along with his entourage of 114.
It is feared that somebody might take a
stab or a shot at him, though why
anybody should wish to harm so gentle
and lovable a character it is difficult to
explain. Even the Russians don’t seem
to want to shoot him, and that is some-
what of a novelty in the U.S.S.R., where
the bullet-proof car has always been a
normal piece of household furniture with
dictators.
• •
“Mugga Way”: When Arthur Calwell
failed to make Cabinet in the early days
of the Curtin Ministry he used to emerge
from caucus-room loudly denouncing
“Jack” within the hearing of the press-
gallery men lingering on the stairway.
He never made any secret of his critical
attitude —and this was interpreted as the
reason why he was promoted into a
Ministerial post when a vacancy
occurred. It didn’t silence him, of course,
but it did deflect his aim away from his
own party. Wonder what he’ll do now if
Ward or someone else tries the same
tactics.
• •
Davis Hughes, Country-party M.L.A.
for Armidale, thinks the middle-men of
the honey industry are on a sweet cop
at the expense of producers and con-
sumers. He claims that honey is being
bought at Id., 9d. and lOd. a pound and
sold in the shops at 2s. 4d. In the N. S.
Wales Assembly he called for an inquiry
into the marketing of honey because
there had been “exploitation of both the
public and the apiarists.” Agriculture
Minister Nott said the apiarists had
sought the establishment of a honey-
marketing board, and he thought
Hughes’ proposal could be deferred for
the present. No one said a word about
the exploitation of the bees.
• •
In its dying moments, having been
snuffed-out by Soekarno with the back-
ing of the Army, the Indonesian Parlia-
ment sang the Indonesian National
Anthem and shouted, “Long live the
President, long live national unity, long
live democracy.” The only thing it didn't
shout was “Long live Parliament.”
• •
Khrushchev went home from South-
east Asia after sprinkling largesse. His
gifts sounded impressive until compared
with Western efforts. His promised steel-
works to India, with, of course, a large
helping of Russian labor, and a £ 100-
million -programme of aid to Indonesia,
consisting mainly of an atomic-reactor
and more Russian labor, are more than
matched by a big Western programme
for the development of an Indian-
Pakistan plan to share the Indus waters
and turn them to use. The chief feature
is a hydroelectric plan to cost as much
as the Snowy Mountains project, of which
the U.S. share alone will be about £lBO
million in gifts and loans, and in which
the U.K., Australia, Canada, N.Z. and
Germany will have some financial share.
The feature which the Kremlin will not
like is the accord between India and
Pakistan.
New England New Staters have been
analysing the Commonwealth Statis-
tician’s figures to see just how their terri-
tory rates as a State-in-waiting. On a
population basis they have a higher per
capita production than any existing
State. Their figures (on the basis of a
population of 730,000) is £314 a head.
Victoria is the nearest to this, with £3lB
a head. Then follow Tasmania (£295),
South Australia (£286), Westralia (£278),
Queensland (£265) and “the rest of N. S.
Wales” (£245). In total value of produc-
tion New England would rank fifth, run-
ning South Australia very close and beat-
ing Westralia and Tasmania.
• •
In resigning the chairmanship of the
Joint Committee on Public Accounts
-which he has led since it was estab-
lished on his initiative eight years ago,
Professor Bland said that in every
Government department the committee
had investigated it had found examples
of wasteful spending. The Bland com-
mittee is one Parliamentary body which
has more than justified its existence.
When one reads its reports and studies
the latest accounts of departmental
expenditure one shudders to think hpw
much bigger the latter would have been
but for the former.
• •
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Some of the Military
History plaques erected in Papua-New
Guinea during and after the Pacific War
are suffering the ■ ravages of time anc
climate. Two on the Buna-Sanananda
beaches have fallen over through the
rusting of the steel supports, and the
bronze plaques have been damaged by
coral. At Milne Bay, plaques have been
found lying in the bush. The Administra-
tion is now arranging for maintenance of
plaques and other war memorials which
have been neglected. Memorials in the
war-cemeteries are notable exceptions.
These have been uniformly well main-
tained.
• •
Nuclear-powered merchant-ships are
probably brought a step nearer by the
reports submitted to the U.K. Ministry
of Transport by a committee appointed
to advise on questions of safety “arising
from nuclear propulsion 'in merchant-
ships at sea and in port.” The committee,
a most representative body of experts,
says that “it is impossible for an
explosion of an atomic-bomb type to
occur in any nuclear-reactor from any
cause whatsoever.”
• •
Nkrumah proposes that when Ghana
becomes a republic on July 1 it will have
power to surrender its sovereignty to a
union of the African States. In plain
fact, Nkrumah’s ambition reaches much
further afield than the tiny State of
Ghana —his writings make it plain that
he sees himself in the future as the head
of an African U.S.S.R. The snag is that
there are others who see themselves in
the same role.


Personal ITEMS
To give the press details of the forth-
coming Sydney Sheep Show —it’s to be
held from June 1-4 and is being called
the Merino Sesquicentennial Show —
G. B. S. Falkiner, president of the N.S.W.
Sheepbreeders’ Association, held a party
last week at Sydney’s Pickwick Club. Of
the wool position generally, he said he
hoped the commemoration in June
would bring home to all Australians
that, while Australia is not as dependent
on it as in earlier years, wool is still the
nation’s sheet-anchor.
• •
Lieut.-General Sir Wilfrid Lindsell,
who lately passed through Fremantle with
his Tasmanian-born wife on the way to
the Speck, first went to Hobart in 1911
when he was an artillery subaltern and
A.D.C. to Sir Harry Barron. On Sir
Harry’s becoming Governor of Westralia
in 1912, he went with him, was there
until the outbreak of War I, then rejoined
his regiment and served on the Western
Front, collecting D. 5.0., 0.8. E., M.C.
and four “mentions.” After the war he
held a series of administrative staff-jobs
at the War Office and elsewhere, and
published his Military Organisation and
Administration, which became the text-
book for all promotion-exams, and has
now reached its 29th edition. In War II
General Lindsell started as Quarter-
master-General to the 8.E.F., had charge
of administration in the Middle East from
1942 to 1943, and at the finish was Prin-
cipal Administrative Officer to the Indian
Command, with G.8.E., K.C.B. and three
“mentions.” Warfare o’er, he retired, and
since 1948 has been a Church Commis-
sioner for England.
• •
After 44 years of working with institu-
tions —for the past 21 years as superin-
tendent of Sunset Home, Dalkeith (W.A.)
—John Bradshaw has decided on a spell.
In his time there Sunset has grown from
a small place with a staff of 35 to the
present fine modern institution with 130
on the pay-roll.
• •
When the Ist/15th Royal New South
Wales Lancers celebrated their 75th
anniversary with a church-parade at St.
John’s, Parramatta, last week, the
Mayor, Aid. A. R. C. Thomas, presented
Parramatta’s municipal flag to Lieut.-
General Sir Eric Woodward, Governor
of N.S.W., and Honorary Colonel of the
regiment. First Commonwealth cavalry
unit to go into action in the Boer War,
the regiment received the freedom of the
City last October. It’s been mechanised
since 1936.
This early Scorfield shows Lieut.-
Colonel Arnold Brown (who has passed
on at Bateman’s Bay, N.S.W., at 65) as
he was in his younger days. With the
drawing The Bulletin reported:
Scorfield’s sketch of Arnold Brown is life-
like in its dash and debonairness. Brown is
a long Australian who looks as if he had
been born under a saltbush, and he has energy
which even the Prussians failed to damp with
enough wounds to keep the average man in
Randwick Hospital for life. In the words of
the Official History, “Brown was no backline
warrior. He held the windmill crest at Pozieres,
and rallied the troops at Flers and had been
wounded when personally leading an audacious
attempt to retrieve a desperate situation.” His
part in the first battle of Bullecourt was notable,
but his share in the second, in which he led
detachments of the 28th and a reinforcement
from the sth Brigade which volunteered “ready
to do anything” in a hopeless situation, was
one of the epics of the war. A bombing aero-
plane knocked a few chips off him later at
Reninghelst, but he lived to raise sheep on
the Castlereagh and to conduct the affairs of
the Coonabarabran Show Society, of which
he is the president, with all the vigor of his
war days. And if anybody suggests that he
wouldn’t ride a buckjumping bull—well, bring
out your bull!
• •
“M'Lou”: The Calder family, who
owned Polkemmet station in’ the Vic-
torian Wimmera for 100 years, had a
longer record of post-office service (B.
2/ 3 / ’6O) than the Dunn family, of
Camberwell (N.S.W.). When Polkemmet
post-office closed in 1957 it had been
conducted at the Calder homestead for
over 70 years, and in earlier days had
served a much wider district.
• •
Making his fourth visit to Australia,
though his first on business, John Connell
is export-director of the London distillers
Tanqueray Gordon and Co., Ltd. He
came here before, with his mother (former
Miss Mollie McFarlane, of Tailem Bend
in South Australia). His father (another
John) was for many years chairman of
the Tanqueray co. and well known in
Australia. Present John collected a Blue
for golf at Oxford, and these days hits
off 10.
• •
Could be they had a look in the crystal-
bowl when naming Dr. Napoleon Hill.
At present here on a three-weeks’ visit, he
had made his first million dollars before
he was 21, and since then he’s been busy
teaching other people how to do the same,
or try, anyway—a career and aim both
Napoleonic enough for anybody. He
spent 20 years in research before he
published in 1928 the eight-volume Law
of Success —another justification of the
name —and since then he has published
six more books with the same theme. He
says he owes his own rise to the Scottish-
American industrialist Andrew Carnegie,
who commissioned him when he was a
young man to compile a philosophy of
achievement based on principles of
success. Dr. Hill is acting as sales-adviser
to Hoover (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
« •
After 30 years’ with the J. Walter
Thompson advertising-agency, and 19
years as managing-director of the Aus-
tralian company, Loyd Ring (“Deke”)
Coleman is calling it a day. Born in
Brockport (U.S.A.), he gained experience
with some of America’s leading com-
panies and then took-up high-school
teaching, specialising in advertising,
salesmanship, journalism and economics.
He became so interested in advertising
that he joined the London office of
J. Walter Thompson in 1928, later moved
to Antwerp and Paris, and subsequently
accepted his post in Australia. He’s an
authoritative gourmet—the cookery-
book, Oh for a French Wife, he wrote
in collaboration with Ted Moloney
has sold more than 13,000 copies in
Australia alone.
• V *
The 11 years that Alan Hollick Ramsay
has been in office as Director of Educa-
tion in Victoria were probably the most
burdensome of any in the department’s
history, with the phenomenal rise in
school attendances, both primary and
secondary, and an almost chronic
shortage of staff.
He retired last Saturday with most of
the problems solved, or almost solved.
Before the war he was one of the most
popular broadcasters for the A.B.C. on
Science for Schools, but in the sputnik
age of his directorship he was opposed
to a bias in favor of scientific or techno-
logical education or the mass-production


of scientists, insisting on a more rounded
education.
He was educated at Melbourne Boys’
High, of which he was head when
appointed director, and he had hardly
begun his first classes (at Cowley’s Creek)
when he enlisted as a gunner in the 4th
Field Artillery in 1915, returned a
lieutenant and maintained an interest in
artillery between the wars. He was an
expert artilleryman with the Ninth in the
Middle East until promoted to command
of the Fifth, which he commanded at the
landing at New Britain, which closed-olf
the Jap garrison.
He is a stalwart of the Carry On Club.
• •
Russell Currie, president of the Work
Study Society of Britain and head of
the Central Work Study department of
1.C.1., describes his profession or science
or whatever as Intensely Organised
Commonsense.
His own best example of his.work is a
British piggery where once a 72-year-old
man cared for 480 pigs a year. The
work-study boys reorganised his layout,
designed some special equipment (which
cost £2O), and he now cares for 1200 pigs,
saves 17 days a year and walks 197 less
miles a year.
Russell is a tall, grey-haired, Scottish
engineer, who has been in Melbourne
for the International Congress of Scien-
tific Management, and burring along
very interestingly indeed at it. He is
touring chiefly 1.C.1.A.N.Z. factories in
Victoria, but he also will visit Broken
Hill, Yallourn and Morwell and talk to
members of the Commonwealth Public
Service and the Defence staffs.
His job is chiefly to make managements
manage better rather than workers work
SIR MANUEL HORNIBROOK, whose
knighthood came in the New Year
Honors for his service to the construction
industry, is past-president of the Queens-
land Civil Engineering Contractors'
Association, and past-president and
Fellow of the Australian Institute of
Builders, as Well as first life-member of
the Master Builders’ Federation of
Australia.
faster. In 1947, when he began his current
work for 1.C.1., there were 30 work-
study specialists, and there are now 1500
with 1.C.1. In the last decade he has
trained 20,000.
• •
“G.M.” gives an insight into the
business-methods of Field-Marshal Sir
William Slim, who has just accepted an
invitation to join the London board-of-
advice of the National Bank of
Australasia:
Shortly after he became Governor-General,
Sir William was invited to be Commodore of
the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron. He soon
showed that he had no intention of becoming
a mere formal rubber-stamper, and often used
to stroll over from Admiralty House and wade
through correspondence, ask pertinent questions
about club activities, etc. He instituted an ex-
servicemen’s dinner and flew up from Canberra
to attend that evening. At the reception
beforehand, members filed past (black tie and
miniatures) for introduction.
The then club-captain (R. Dickson) boomed-
out, as I went by: “This is M., sir. He served
under you in S.E.A.C., I understand.”
The file ground to a halt, as the G.-G. stuck
out his chin and asked: “What regiment?”
“The Royal Scots, sir.”
“Then you must have been First Battalion.”
“I was, sir.”
“What company?”
“1 commanded Don Company, sir.”
Pause.
“Tell me, have you been back to Edinburgh
since then?”
“Yes, sir.”
“What street is the Regimental Club in now?”
“Abercrombie Place, sir.”
G.-G.: “That’s very good, M.”
Firm handshake.
The queue then moved on, the club-captain
mopped his brow, and a very relieved ex-
officer of the “Fust o’ Foot” dived outside for
a quick burra peg. The sequel showed the
F.-M.’s superb staff-work, index, notes, or just
plain good memory. On his return to the same
function a year later, he said, without any
visible prompting: “Oh, yes, M. How are
the Royals this year?”
• •
“Jock”: Ernie Ryall, just retired as
under - manager of Mount Kembla
(N.S.W.) colliery, started in the coal-
industry in 1908 as a lamplighter at
2s. 6d. for a 10-hour shift. He went
through most of the jobs in the pit in
the course of his rise to under-manager
—-evidence that the highest executive
post is available to any mine employee
of ability if he cares to study. Ernie’s
father, who survived the 1902 disaster
at Mount Kembla in which 95 men were
lost, was under-manager there from 1910
to 1941. Ernie kept the job in the family
by taking - over from him in 1941.
Ernie’s son is carrying on the Ryall
tradition by working at Bulli colliery.
• o
While John Fuller, State chairman of
the New South Wales Country Party, is
a son of the late Bryan Fuller, K.C.,
president of the University Club, the
land is in his blood —his original Aus-
tralian forebear settled in the Illawarra
in 1830, and he himself still owns part
of the family property near Kiama,
though he lives on his grazing property,
Kallateenee, near Coolah. At the same
time the Fullers are no strangers to
politics: his uncle, Sir George, was a
member of the first Federal Parliament
and was Premier of N.S.W. and a con-
siderable figure in State politics. John
(educated at Knox, Sydney) at 30 became
a member of the Central Council of the
Country party and chairman of the
Liverpool Plains Electorate Council
shortly after the end of the war. That
JOHN FULLER
was a year after he was elected a mem-
ber of the Council of the Graziers’
Association. He takes a keen interest in
local-government, is a member of the
Coolah Shire Council and is chairman
of the Local Advisory Committee of the
Junior Farmers.
• •
Appointed State Government nominee
to the Westralian University Senate,
Perth businessman Charles Bunning has
first-hand knowledge of most phases of
university activity. He holds a Bachelor
of Engineering degree from Melbourne
and has been a prominent all-round
athlete, cricketer and footballer. Besides
managing a Westralian timber-firm estab-
lished by his father and uncle, he is
director of several companies and a
former president of the W.A. Employers’
Federation. In 1958 an Australian
delegate to the International Labor
Organisation at Geneva, he’s at present
chairman of the University Joint
Colleges Appeal.
« •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 81, Lew Tuckett, formerly
overseer-postman in the city. An original
Anzac, he won the M.M. with the Ist Div.
Sigs. on Gallipoli and subsequently a captaincy
and the M.C. with the Bth Battalion. In
War II he was attached to the censor-staff as
liaison-officer from the Postal Department.
In Brisbane, Dr. Lindsay Page Winterbotham,
lecturer in Medical Ethics at the University of
Queensland, honorary curator of the Uni.’s
anthropological museum and past-president of
the Anthropological Society of Queensland.
At Kalgoorlie (W.A.), at 66, Francis William
White, pastoralist, who had interests also in
several mining-properties. He owned two
stations at Lawlers totalling 760,000 acres and
another of 25,000 acres in the Esperance
country.
In Melbourne, at 62, Ivor Warne-Smith,
winner of two Brownlow Medals, and possibly
the greatest all-round footballer to have played
with the Melbourne V.F.L. club. He served
in both the Ist and the 2nd A.I.F.


ABORIGINALITIES
/”\N a recent patrol in the Nembi Valley,
west of Mendi, in the Southern High-
lands district of Papua-New Guinea,
Assistant District Officer Jordan came
across a fight between several hundred
tribesmen. Waiting on an opportunity
to explain that the Administration’s only
interest was to stop hostilities, not to take
sides, he watched through binoculars.
The clash was a bow-and-arrow box-on
between the Injip and the Soa peoples,
but Jordan noted one touch of advanced
warfare: when a Soa warrior drew back
his bowstring his right wrist was seen to
be encased in a Victorian Bitter beer-
can, apparently traded (empty) from
some distant tribe. —“Fuzzy Wuzzy.”
* * * *
“Ceg”: In a hotel in the N.Z. North
Island trout-fishing district of Taihape a
couple of holiday anglers from Australia,
armed with a couple of schooners,
approached a glass case and duly admired
its occupant —a magnificent stuffed
trout. “What a beaut!” said one.
“I can just imagine the tussle the lucky
bloke had who caught it.” “Yes,” said
the other. “Nothing like a fish that’ll
give you a good run for your money.”
And so it went on. After a few more
schooners the two Izaak Waltons noticed
a very small card tucked in a corner
of the case. “This fish,” it announced,
“was taken by a boy from a flooded
drain and killed with a stick.” That
called for two more schooners.
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: People here in Fiji have
the sense to dress for the climate even
if those living in the hotter parts of
Australia are still shackled by convention.
Our paper printed a photograph of a
senior official of a very big company
at a ceremony at the last pouring of
the concrete on the new Nandi jet run-
way. He wore short-sleeved open-necked
white shirt, white shorts, and "flip-flops”
on his bare feet.
* * * *
“Tomi”: Caught in a small country
town for the night, I booked-in at the
hotel. Had to share a room. My room-
mate was old and lined, nodded as I
came in. He was already in his pyjamas.
I thought he’d just slip into bed. Instead
he produced a length of rope, packed all
his other goods including his toothbrush
into his port, and coiled the rope on top.
“Er —what’s the rope for?” I asked.
“Son,” he said, “I was in a pub like this
in Longreach once. Halfway through the
night she went up in flames. 1 got out
with a pair of singed pyjamas. That’s all.
And a busted leg from jumping off the
veranda.' 1 wouldn’t like that to happen
again.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Am I barking up
the wrong tree, or is “Sevenelms”
meandering in the wrong State when he
claims that cadjiput isn’t the native name
for some W.A. nor’-west melaleucas (B.
17/2/’60)? He says the abos. called them
atchoourgo. Where? There were
hundreds of native languages and dialects
in Australia, some differing as widely as
any two languages of civilised races;
and these differences show even in the
naming of birds that could have been
named for some such characteristic as
their call-notes. The black swan was
kurillthu to one nor’-west W.A. tribe,
kurulu to another; gooroyl around
Geraldton, goljak or coolecha near Perth,
and marlee farther south. The sacred-
kingfisher was perina and kunyeenuck,
and other names as dissimilar. And so
on. There could be immense disparity
between the names for the same tree on
opposite sides of the continent; certainly
I’ve heard full-blood natives in the W.A.
nor’-west speak of cadjiputs or cadjibuts
as though that was the tribal name.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Of the various lines whose
sailing-ships were at some time or other
on the Australian run, the Loch line
seems to have been the victim of more
sea-disasters than most. Loch Long
went down with all hands after leaving
New Caledonia with a cargo of nickel-
ore, her wreckage being found on the
Chatham Islands. Loch Vennachar (all
hands lost) and Loch Sloy (two sur-
vivors), were wrecked on Kangaroo
Island —a real death-trap. Loch Ard
THE CROW
Over the blue and haunting ranges,
Over the country that never changes,
Over the past that all estranges,
The crow . . .
The black body gloating, floating lightly,
Calling loudly, calling whitely,
Over deep timber that glitters brightly,
The crow . . .
Many years, many years, many years
after,
Deriding the joy, the love and the
laughter,
From heaven s great blossoming cloudy
rafter
Crying grindingly, fatly, rich for ever,
“Ah, ah . . . ah,” because of all things*
that part, that sever.
Million-bodied with hair green-dark,
Million-bodied in silken bark,
Branded with Greek and antique mark,
Like great white women with hair of red,
Like Helens wanting no man to wed,
Like Helens arisen from the dead,
The gum-trees listen to the voice
Of their black hag-goddess as she flies
crying,
Blackly and awfully, like a lost soul
lying.
I stare on the depths that look below me
To the miles that the black crow flies
to show me,
I fly with her swiftly on this blue cover,
Like a lost god after an awful lover,
And together we move on the vastness
slowly
Calling in voices wild and holy,
Dark and dreadful to the far-away
ranges,
To the great blue mountain that never
changes.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.




was lost on Moonlight Head (Vic.) with
only two survivors—the gorge near Port
Campbell is named after her. Loch
Lomond (one of the finest of the fleet),
carrying coal from Newcastle, and Loch
Maree both went down with all hands
and without trace. Three—Loch Torre-
don, Loch Carron and Loch Broom —
were lost by enemy action during World
War I. Loch Leven, carrying over 6000
bales of wool out of Geelong, was
stranded on King Island and became a
total loss. Loch Earn collided in mid-
Atlantic with the French mail-steamer
Ville de Havre on a clear, starlit night
in 1873. The steamer sank in 12 minutes
and Loch Earn was able to save only
87 of its 313 passengers and crew. These
survivors were transferred next day to
the American ship Tremountain —which
was lucky for them, for two days later
Loch Earn sank, the crew being rescued
by a passing ship. Two, Loch Ness and
Loch Tay, managed to dodge trouble
“What's your occupation ?”
and were finally sold in Adelaide for
conversion into coal-hulks.
* * * *
“Wimra”: Any shooter in the open
season for wild-ducks in Victoria who
bagged a banded duck bearing one of
the 50 lucky numbers selected by the State
Fisheries and Game Department could
collect 500 shotgun-cartridges. Since 1953
the department has banded over 33,000
wild-ducks in its search for information
about their flight-lanes, breeding- and
feeding-places, and this has made possible
its scheme of game-reserve swamps and
the like where wildfowl may breed in
reasonable security.
* * * *
“Drypan”: I nominate Bowen (N.Q.)
as this continent’s champion concentra-
tion of thorned, barbed and spiked
vegetable-pests. Here are some of its
threats to bare feet, bare legs and bike-
tyres: khaki-grass, spear-grass (big and
small varieties), bullheads (upright- and
vine-types), barley-grass or Scotch-burr,
hookheads, noogoora-burr, waitawhile-
vine, China-apple, prickly-acacia and
scattered clumps of prickly-pear and
sisal-hemp, with its dangerous spines.
* * * *
“Temora”: The truly Australian post-
and-rail fence with its entertaining
advertisements (B. 30 /12/ ’59) is always
of interest, but a couple of years ago,
travelling through Melbourne’s Dan-
denong Ranges, we saw quite the most
original Orstralian fence and got its
history. During the last war an old
retired gent who had had a cottage
erected took umbrage at the excessive
quote the builder made for 80ft. of
post-and-rail Tront-fence and reckoned
he would make other arrangements.
Electric light had come to the district,
so he was able to acquire a bargain line
of outmoded chip bath-heaters. These
he sank in concrete. The sections be-
tween were old iron bedstead-ends, all
licked over with maroon paint. If the
Australian Historical Society wants an
inspection, follow the old coach-road
mountain highway, just approaching
Olinda.
* * * *
“D.C.T.”: I doubt the belief that
wild pigs in Australia are the descen-
dants of a couple released by Captain
Cook on the Endeavour River about 200
years ago. The' first settlers on the
Darling, Warrego, Paroo and a dozen
other rivers found plenty of pigs as far
back as the 1860’s, while they were also
numerous in the Gulf country. With
their natural enemies—wild blacks and
crocodiles —those pigs could scarcely
have covered a third of Australia in
less than a century. Further, the barren
Cooktown hinterland would have
stopped any pigs released from the
Endeavour, or their progeny, from
scaling the escarpment of the Coast
Range. Probably our wild pigs came!
from New Guinea when a land-mass
connected it with Australia, and have
been here for thousands of years.
* * * #
“Maitri”: A young woman I know has
a beagle-hound called Roger which she’s
been taking to an “Obedience Class,”
where he’s struck-up a friendship with a
fox-terrier. The other day the foxy’s
owner sent Roger a handsomely-printed
invitation to attend the terrier’s third
birthday-party. An addendum indicated
that the beagle’s mistress would be
welcome if she, too, cared to come along.
She’s in a bit of a quandary: she’s never
been to a dogs’ party before and isn’t
sure what she ought to wear.
* * * *
“Kenyas”: I have read somewhere that
during the Middle Ages fowl which swam
on water were declared lish, so that
rations in Lent and other fasting-seasons
could have a bit more variety. It looks
as if Melbourne, because ot the Morcli
Gras (Fat Tuesday) in the Queen City
on Friday, March 4, should have declared
that special Friday a Tuesday. Or have
been really original and christened the
festival Vendredi (Friday) Gras? After
all, Friday used to be the fattest day in
the week when, almost universally, it was
payday.
* * * *
DAWN PATROL
A clatter of seagulls heralds Bluey the
Crane. He’s not a crane, really;
he’s a heron (in Cayley’s book, “white-
fronted heron”). But we always called
him Bluey the Crane.
And the dawn comes up like thunder
From the Spit Bridge down the Bay
(with apologies to Kipling),
and Bluey the Crane up Middle Harbor
at 5 a.m. on a hot January morning.
With the binoculars handy, sitting on the
stone wall at the bottom of the garden,
I always knew where to look for him,
over a long sweep of blue-grey early-
morning water to The Bluff (a mile away).
I’d catch the glint of the early sun on a
silver wing. Cutting the headland of
Beauty Point and Quaker’s Hat, a long,
low, slowly flapping flight, but on a very
definite course.
I always felt that I was “bringing him
in” to a “three-point landing,” as I, too,
in the years back, T6-T7, coming home
from a dawn-patrol hoped for that same
“three-point.” On he came, almost into
the garden—a slight swerve and a dainty
landing on the few feet of small sandy
beach.
A well-dressed fellow, Bluey, especially
so early in the morning! All in blue-
grey, swallow-tail coat, white waistcoat,
pink boots —smooth, svelte, immaculate!
A careful stepping, always poised,
balanced, watching the incoming ripple
of the rising tide —a pause, one foot
suspended, a stab of the long stiletto
beak —smack! And that was the begin-
ning of breakfast.
J. J. Larkin.


As I passed the little old weather-
board place it clanked my
memory back 40 years. A bushfire was
racing through the tea-tree scrub with
a roaring westerly behind it. My two
schoolmates and their mother lived in
the house ; their father was a shearers’
cook I never once saw him. There
wasn’t even a volunteer fire-brigade in
the -district then, and all the men were
either away at work or busy burning
firebreaks around their own homes.
Things were looking decidedly grim
when the local parson rode up, flung his
bike against the fence and leapt into
action. “We might lose the house, but
at least we’ll save the furniture,” he
panted, and promptly recruited us all.
Working like bees with the Rev. setting
the pace, we carried the furniture out
and stacked it in the one spot with a
firebreak around it —the middle of the
dirt-road. The fire swept up, and for
five terrible minutes everything was
roaring flames and blistering heat. Then
the forefront of the fire leapt on, leaving
the smaller, individual fires and smoking
ruin. By a miracle the house had
escaped with blistered paint—but every
piece of furniture was burnt. And Steele
Rudd thought his bush-parson had
troubles. —“Sackville.”
* * * *
“Agricola”: Some of our Darling
Downs (Q.) cattlemen have been worried
about decreasing fertility in their herds,
and a cattle-expert was invited to address
them on the subject. There was a record
roll-up. The typed meeting-notices
announced that he would speak on
“iNFIDLLITY! ’’
* * * #
“Stromlo”: Just 620 miles west of tne
Leeuwin is the newly discovered Diaman-
tina Deep, the greatest depth yet found
in the Indian Ocean and nearly 3500 ft.
deeper than the famous Sunda Trench
south of Java (3828 fathoms). The new
deep was found in dramatic circum-
stances by H.M.A.S. Diamantina on
February 7 while doing an oceano-
graphic survey. It was discovered
descending steeply from 2500 fathoms
to 3400 fathoms. Two minutes’ steaming-
time later the depth under the Diaman-
tina’s keel was 4400 fathoms, or some-
thing like five miles. There was a suit-
able celebration among the C.5.1.R.0.
scientists on board—after the highly
official step of sending a signal to the
Navy Office in Canberra.
* * * *
“K 1 N”: The last “big” shed in
Queensland to forsake the blades in
favor of shearing-machines was Mutti,
the out-station of Warbreccan, on the
Thomson River. Plenty of small joints
of 20 or less may have continued click-
ing the shears, but 1 refer to big places,
Mutti—or Mutti-Mutti, to give it the
full title—was a bough-roof structure of
50 stands. The last of the blades
“clicked” in August, 1905, and when
machines. were put in the following year
the rattle and vibration of the plant
“Would it be possible to change this unit for one with a
southerly aspect, officer ?”
shook dust and dry twigs from the roof.
Every man of the 50 shearers topped
the century for the day before that
shearing was complete—they were on
perhaps the plainest big or smalT flock
in W.Q. In the good old days, with
sheds at both Mutti and Evangie, each
50 blades, Warbreccan used to shear up
to 235,000. They carried 35,000 cattle
as well. Big enough?
* * * *
“Mulloway”: On Queensland’s south
coast the black-tip sharks —so called
because of the sable touches on fins —
break-up into packs of a dozen or more
to surround sections of the great schools
of anchovies, pilchards and other small
fish travelling northwards. Working like
a pack of dogs, they round them up into
a compact mass, and then attack from
all points of the compass simultaneously,
mostly close to shore. Yet I’ve seen a
group of lifesavers, right in among them
in water from knee-deep to waist-deep,
attacking the killers with spear, harpoon,
axe, crowbar and even rifle. One of the
sharks was big enough to break a new
cotton lifeline, but none of them
attempted to attack their attackers!
* * * *
THE PALING-SPLITTER
The paling-getter worked and lived in
noble solitude, and because only one
stick in a hundred was a “splitter” he
ranged widely and vetted a lot of trees.
For mobility he camped in a tent which
had limitations in mountain territory of
high rainfall. With the outside world
he had tenuous foot-tracks of communi-
cation, and his groceries reached him
by unreliable and delayful routes.
He diagnosed a “splitter” by axing a
6in. chip out of the butt and then axe-
splitting the chip into “test-matches”
about |in. square. With axe, saw and
wedges the tree was felled and crosscut
to 6ft. and sft. lengths. With maul and
wedges these short logs were split into
billets 7in. wide, on one edge sin. thick
and on the other 2|in. thick.
A billet was broadaxe-dressed and
positioned in a “billet-trap” that pointed
it at an angle of 45deg. to the splitter’s
chest-level, and the “throw” or paling-
knife was held against the billet-end,
entered with one blow of a mallet and
then, with its right-angled handle,
levered to split the actual paling 6fin.
wide, |in. on the thick edge and on
the thin edge. Full severance was not
split becase “the trap” was cramping
the bottom sin. of the billet, and this
“hand” of 10 palings was a convenient
unit to handle and tally.
The hands were stacked on reject-
billets to keep them off the wet ground
and were sheltered from the sun by their
usually bosky surroundings. A bushfire
could burn them, and whose loss this
was depended on the harshness of the
splitter’s contract with his subsidising
timber-merchant.
A year or five years later, when some
bullock - track or wooden tramline
pushed into the forest, these then-
indispensable and economical palings got
lapped onto suburban fences. In a good
bush free of white-ant the paling-splitter
earned £lO a week while his contem-
porary sawmill-hands got one-quarter of
that.
The paling-splitter is now about as
rare as the takahe. He may be
flushed in an odd gully or two, getting
some fence-rails for the hunt-club or
catering for a Macquarie Street farmer
with some fancy bull-oak shingles; but
in a decade he’ll be in the dodo class.
He was a craftsman worthy of salute
before we finally forget him.
Sevenelms.


II
m
m
wm
r ei Jjj
***«*£*&
t » ■*
£1
3S<
/ *r\J isf**
'w'v. ,
Sy
,
;****■<
• • 9
A happier choice for every occasion
MGOVOS wine
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING. SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
BETTER BRANDY «ST AGNES BRANDY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
MONOPOLIES, "TIES" AND "PIES"
Tn opening Federal Parliament
last week, the Governor-
General, Lord Dunrossil, said
the Government was concerned
about the development of ten-
dencies towards monopolies
and restrictive trade practices,
Legislation would be consider-
ed to protect and strengthen
free enterprise against such a
development.
What the Government has
in mind is not clear, and what
it can do under the Constitu-
tion is not certain, either.
Apparently there is not so
much concern about the con-
centration of control over an
industry as there is about what
happens after that control is
achieved.
'The procession of takeovers
which has occurred during the
past three or four years has
tended to put the control of
industry into fewer hands, but,
with the exception of the daily-
newspaper industry, in some
cases it has increased competi-
tion rather than reduced it.
It would be hard to say, for
instance, that the opposing con-
solidation of interests under
Hooker’s and Lend-Lease Cor-
poration in Sydney has lessened
the competition between those
enterprises.
However, the takeover trend
will need to be watched, especi-
ally where, as in the case of
ice-cream and milk-products, it
is now a “big-business” in-
dustry, with limited sources of
raw material and few small
men remaining in the game,
it is unlikely that there is
thought of making any move
to upset B.H.P.’s monopoly of
steel-production. What seems
to be concerning the Govern-
ment most are “restrictive trade
practices” and the like, but
whether its main interest is in
“pies,” “ties’ or “gentlemen’s
agreements ’ has still to be
revealed.
“Pies” concern the getting-
together of woolbuyers (and
others) at auctions. “Ties”
represent arrangements where-
by wholesalers and retailers
are bound to deal in the pro-
ducts of certain manufacturers
and not to deal in other
products without the manufac-
turers’ consent. “Gentlemen’s
agreements” relate principally
to price-fixing arrangements
made by word of mouth be-
tween manufacturers of similar
products so as to avoid com-
petition on a price basis,
It is not going to be easy to
deal with any of these prob-
lems, but it won’t hurt to make
an attempt, or to inquire into
them.
Where there is a concentra-
tion of business in the hands
of a few people or companies,
not only is there a tendency
to control selling-prices, but
one to fix buying-prices as
well. This can result in a
producer of raw materials in
the end being forced to sell-
out cheaply to a manufacturer.
There is an unwelcome trend
towards monopoly in Austra-
lia, and the more healthy com-
petition there is the better.
But the Federal Government’s
own private-company tax relat-
ing to undistributed profits is a
prime factor in the elimination
of the small man and his sur-
render to takeovers. A little
reading-up of J. A. L. Gunn
might help in guiding the
Government on this vital ques-
tion.
John Vicars and Co., Ltd.
r T' , HE £1 shares in John Vicars
and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
have been in the doldrums for
ages. During the past two
years of market buoyancy,
their highest price has been
28s. 9d., their lowest 21s. The
div. has gradually risen from
the 5 p.c. which followed the
conversion to public status in
1951 to the present 74 p.c. Of
the latest distribution, 3 p.c.
was tax-free. There remains
in taxed-profits reserve enough
to pay an additional 84 p.c. on
the present ord. capital, or
slightly less than last year’s
3 p.c. for another three years.
Consolidated net profit last
year, after allowing for the
prefs., was 12.5 p.c. on ord.
capital. Adequate provision
for taxation and depreciation
appeared to have been allowed
before arriving at the profit.
The main factory (84 acres,
freehold) at Marrickvifle con-
verts greasy wool to finished
worsteds and tweeds. There
are branch factories at Bulli,
Oatley and St. Mary's, and a
city freehold—Merino House—
is owned in York Street, Syd-
ney. The co. also holds 48 p.c
of the shares in Sydney Wool-
len Mills, of Parramatta. (Car-
pet Manufacturers holds 51 p.c.
of the shares in Sydney
Woollen.)
The total book-value of all
the freeholds of the co. and its
subsidiaries was £326,577 at
July 31 last, but the present
value would seem to be at least
three times that figure. Plant
at £664,944 looked a conserva-
tive valuation also. Stocks at
£1,448,489 are in at cost or
under.
Total liabilities of £787,214
included taxation and other
provisions, and indicated a very
easy state of finances.
Disclosed reserves of
£1,416,835, less £220,475 of
intangibles, were equal to 22s
lOd. per £1 ord. (1,050,000 of
them issued, with 300,000 44
p.c. prefs.), and were obviously
only part of the story of the
co.’s asset strength.
Although at present not par-
ticularly enterprising in its divi-
dend policy, John Vicars has
moved with the times in its
trading activities, and has a
valuable tie-up with Fletcher
Jones, the trouser- and skirt-
manufacturing concern, which
has distribution in all States.
Also it has had an association
with Brack Mills (through Bulli
Spinners Pty.) on the synthetics
side, and though this may not
have been very remunerative
up to the present, it at least
represents a form of insurance
in the event of locally-made
synthetics becoming a factor in
the Australian textile industry
There is a liaison with Good-
all Sanford, Inc., U.S.A., for
the manufacture of specialty
cloths.
In any case, the association
with Brack does not seem to
have involved John Vicars in
much capital commitment. The
consolidated total holding in
shares and debentures in com-
panies (other than subsidiaries;
was modest at £165,524 at last
balance. The interest in Bulli
Spinners would appear to
represent less than half this.
At 255. the £1 ords. in John


A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. D. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange ) ‘
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No, 1887 W
BANK WHERE YOB
a whs
SiHJL
SIS
Look for the blue and gold shield at every
branch of A.N.Z. Bank it is your safeguard
in banking service.
★ An A.N.Z. SAVINGS ACCOUNT . . .
is easy to open. You receive a
Pass Book and your money earns
interest (up to £2,000). Attrac-
tive money boxes FREE to child-
ren under 12 years, who have an
A.N.Z. Savings Account.
5^
Aft
★ An A.N.2. CHEQUE ACCOUNT . . .
is a permanent record of all your
payments. Easy to use. Simple
to write and it's so much safer!
ijsimti
★ An A.N.Z. TRAVELLER'S CHEQUE . .
is the safest way to carry money
when you travel anywhere in Aus-
tralia or abroad.
AN Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND RANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS RANK LIMITED
A-N-Z
Vicars would return 6 p.c. on
the basis of a continued 74
p.c. div., and the yield to earn-
ings would be 10 p.c. on last
year’s basis.
John Vicars has not shone as
a “growth” stock, but it has its
own particular features.
Asset-wise, the cover is very
strong indeed, disclosed as well
as undisclosed, and it is this
factor, during an inflationary
period, which will appeal to the
investor as much as the im-
mediate income-yield of 6 p.c.
The woollen textile trade has
been having its problems, but
at present conditions are more
favorable than they have been
for some time.
Linoleum Holdings
A 10 p.c. dividend from
Michael Nairn and Co.
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd., compared
with 8 p.c. in the previous year,
has enabled Linoleum Hold-
ings, Ltd., to raise its own div.
from 74 p.c. to 94 p.c. on
increased capital.
Profit by the operating co.
is not disclosed, but it would
appear, from additions to
reserves (up £170,105 to
£1,002,422) and allowing for
divs., that Michael Nairn made
a profit of around £210,000
during the term to September
30, 1959, equal to 28 p.c. on
paid capital of £750,000 (of
which £250,000 came in half-
way through the term).
Sales for the year showed a
slight increase over the previ-
ous term, but the greater profit
is attributed to operating
economies and lower raw-
material prices.
Linoleum Holdings ords.
have risen from a “low” of
265. last year to 435. 6d. last
week. They yield 4.3 p.c. on
a 94 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
backing on most conservative
Michael Nairn book-values is
455. lOd. a share.
Onkaparinga Woollen
TpoLLOwiNG the purchase of
the Torrensfde woollen-
mill of Goode, Durrant and
Murray in 1958, Onkaparinga
Woollen Mills, Ltd., of South
Australia, has now bought the
woolscouring plant of Robert
Jowitt and Sons, Ltd., at Hind-
marsh, at a cost of £70,000.
Onkaparinga is a well-set-
up maker of blankets and
rugs, dressing-gowns, etc., the
accounts of which, on analysis,
show the concern to be financi-
ally well rugged indeed. The
£1 shares are tightly held, with
a last sale at, 465.
They are well worth atten-
tion at around that figure, even
though, for the present, the
yield is only 3.9 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis. Asset-backing and
earning-power are greater than
admitted to in the accounts.
Jacoby Mitchell
Tacoby Mitchell Holdings,
Ltd., just listed on Sydney
Stock Exchange, has various
operating subsidiaries, the main
one being Jacoby, Mitchell and
Co. Pty., which concentrates on
the supply of electronic equip-
ment for industry and research,
including radar, closed-circuit
television-cameras, instruments
for television production-lines
and test-benches, and equip-
ment for process-control and
office automation. This sub-
sidiary has been operating for
25 years and holds well-known
overseas agencies.
The group has a particularly
keen sales organisation.
The listed holding-co. has a
paid-up capital of £120,000 in
ss. shares. In addition, con-
vertible unsecured notes total-
ling £30,000 have been issued,
current to December 31, 1964.
In order to qualify for Stock
Exchange listing, Joseph
Palmer and Sons, Sydney stock-
brokers, made a placement of
shares at 6s. lOd. This was
heavily oversubscribed.
Net profits, after deducting
income-tax at public-co. rates,
have averaged 18.5.6 p.c. over
the last three years. Profit for
the year ended June 30, 1959,
was £26,214, equal to 21.85 p.c.
on present paid-up capital.
The co. expects to pay divi-
dends at the rate of 124 p.c,
p.a., with the first distribution
in October out of 1959-60
profits.
Net asset backing at the time
of placement equalled ss. Id.
per share.
Early dealings in the ss.
shares have been at 12s. 3d.
each.
John Shearer and Sons
A fter last year’s record turn-
over and profit, share-
holders in John Shearer and
Sons, Ltd., of Adelaide, have
been wondering how things
are going this year under
seasonal conditions which, in
S.A. anyway, have not been up
to the standard of 1958-59.
The interim distribution on
the bonus-doubled capital has
been announced at 3 p.c.,
which is actually an improve-
ment on the 5 p.c. declared
last year on capital only half
the present size.
On the strength of the
declaration the ss. shares have
lifted from 9s. 3d. to 10s. 3dy
in Adelaide.
Last year’s consolidated net
profit, which is nearly all
earned by the parent, was
£118,179 after tax of £70,200,
and equal to 47.3 p.c. on paid
capital prior to the bonus-
issue, compared with 32.5
p.c. in the preceding year. A
distribution of .20 p.c. was
made, as against 15 p.c. in
1957-58 and 174 p.c. in
1956-57.
Last year’s one - for - one
bonus-issue carried paid capital
up to £500,000, of which £4OOO
is in participating prefs. The
capitalisation came from a re-
valuation of assets, and did
not encroach on the accumu-
lated profits, which totalled
£620,990 at June 30 last. At
that date there were, in addi-
tion, £43,805 of general
reserves and £74,469 in assets-
revaluation reserve. To per-
mit the £250,000 bonus-issue
there must have been a further
revaluation. Fixed , assets,
before bonus, appeared at the
low figure of £411,098, of
which £299,214 was in free-
holds.
The co. makes a variety of
farm-machinery under the
Shearer brand, and has distri-
bution in every State. With its
Majestic heavy-duty plough it
has cashed-in on on the large-
scale development projects on
virgin soil like the Coonalpyn,
Downs (S.A.) venture, the
Denbarker (W.A.) project
where 20,000 acres of heavy
jarrah country was cleared and
ploughed, the brigalow projects
in Queensland, dense-bush
cultivation in Tasmania and on
King Island, large projects on
new country on Wilson’s Pro-
montory and Cape Otway in


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, P. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
"EMDKCELKX,’’ Sydney
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W. li. Hunt, J. A. Hudson,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange,
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Einwar, Sydney.
Victoria, and big areas of red-
gum scrub in N.S.W. The
Majestic is designed to deal
with rough scrubland.
A Shearer chisel-plough is
also produced, as well as large
spring-release combines and
other farm-machinery.
The business was established
in 1877, and it has accumu-
lated considerable financial
fat over the years. Even on
the bonus-increased capital, and
excluding assets - revaluation
reserve, net tangible backing
as at June 30 last amounted to
11s. 3d. per ss. share. In keep-
ing with financial solidity, the
liquid position is extremely
comfortable stocks were
£437,036, debtors £132,398,
with cash, etc., at £193,451.
Outside liabilities, including
tax provision and final div.,
totted-up to no more than
£184,713.
For a machinery - company
the co.'s finances are indeed in
good order. There are seven
members of the Shearer family
on the board, and they seem
to know their business.
When announcing the bonus-
issue, the board said that it
expected to maintain a 1\ p.c.
div. on the enlarged capital.
This should be easy; and, in
view of the present 3 p.c. in-
terim distribution, it looks as
though the final might carry
the rate up to beyond 1\ p.c.
A 10 p.c. distribution would
call for no more than was
handed-out for 1958-59.
i
Huttons, Ltd.
a 10 p.c. div. basis over
the past two years, but
with no interim due at the
half-way mark [the co. makes
one distribution only (in Octo-
ber) each year], Huttons, Ltd.,
ha*s a market for its £1 ord.
share at 345. On the basis of
a 10 p.c. div. the yield at that
figure is a shade under 6 p.c.
As United Provisions, Ltd.,
a jinx seemed to sit on the
shoulder of the co. for many
years after the reconstruction
of 1927, when the merger of
J. C. Hutton and Foggitt Jones
took place. But since 1955
there has been more stability
in the co.’s affairs, and the
previous jigging-about in the
div.-rate has been absent over
the past five years, when
nothing less than 8 p.c. has
been paid;
The group, which comprises
J. C. Hutton Pty., Foggitt Jones
Pty. and J. C. Hutton (N.Z.),
Ltd., cures hams, makes small-
goods and cans various meats
on a large scale.
For 1958-59 net profits were
disclosed at 17.7 p.c. on ord.
capital, and net tangible back-
“Were jus ’ Waitin' for the bank to open”
ing worked-out at 375. 7d. per
ord. share. These net tangibles
undoubtedly represent conser-
vative valuations on the fixed-
assets side, and are a help in
present conditions of competi-
tive trading.
In N.S.W. particularly there
is cutthroat competition in the
smallgoods business, and this,
combined with the current high
cost of livestock, makes trading
difficult. Among the lesser
smallgoods - manufacturers in
N.S.W. there has already been
some mortality.
Helped by the issue of
238,500 £1 ords. last year,
Huttons are now in a fairiy
comfortable state of liquidity;
and stocks at June 30 last were
of normal proportions.
Greater emphasis is being
placed on packaging. The
directors report that “improve-
ment in operational methods
and installation of additional
equipment has increased effici-
ency and assisted in maintain-
ing trading-margins in a diffi-
cult period.” Exports to the
U.K., the Islands, Asia and the
U.S.A. have been stepped-up.
The Tasmanian branch is
being extended to provide for
additional exports.
A well-established export-
trade could heip stabilise over-
all results, especially in view
of the increasingly competitive
Australian market.
Stanley Korman’s Ascent
CTanley Korman is still reach-
ing for the sky. The highly
successful ex-Polish migrant
who is now chairman of the
Korman-Stanhill group will put
up a new Chevron hotel in
St. Kilda Road, Melbourne,
which will have some floors
below ground-level, 41 above
it, and will be 466 ft. high.
It will be the tallest building
in Australia. The highest now
standing is ICIANZ’s (265 ft.)
in Albert Street, East Mel-
bourne. Consolidated Zinc’s,
which is already beginning to
look like a skeleton, will rise
325 ft. above Collins Street,
Melbourne, and Sydney’s Chev-
ron will be 410 ft.
Korman, who has been con-
cerned about the overcrowding
at Melbourne University,
offered the University Council
a building next to Melbourne
Chevron as temporary accom-
modation, and when the coun-
cil rejected the offer last week,
decided to go ahead immedi-
ately on the sites.
Jaques Bros., Ltd.
Although L. E. Jaques,
chairman of Jaques Bros.,
Ltd., reported, in presenting
the last annual accounts, that
competition had been extremely
keen during 1958-59, and that
the parent’s turnover had
fallen 6 p.e. on the previous
year’s retord figure (two sub-
sidiaries had better results), he
closed on the note that orders
on hand at the 1959-60 year’s
beginning would ensure a
“satisfactory production-level”
during the term.
In announcing maintenance
of the 10 p.c. interim distri-
bution last month, the board
said that conditions in the
quarrying- and earthmoving-
machinery industry improved,
and so did the group’s output.
In addition to the foregoing
types of machinery, the co.
makes Moto-Cranes and other
heavy-engineering products. It
also imports similar equip-
ment, and should benefit from
the removal of import-
restrictions.
The group comprises Jaques
Bros., Ltd. (the parent), Cullen
Bros., Ltd. (Villawood,
N.S.W.), Jaques (N.S.W.), Ltd.,
and R. N. Wyllie Pty., of South
Oakleigh (Vic.). There are in
all three factories in Victoria
and one in N.S.W.
Net profit for 1958-59 was
equal to 17.6 p.c. on average
ord. capital of £384,750 (since
increased to £467,934 following
the acquisition of Cullen Bros.).
There is £5OOO of 5 p.c. pref.
money.
Reserves of £326,835 gave
each 10s. ord. a net tangible
backing of 19s. lOd. last
balance-day, when the co. was
trading comfortably within its
resources, after increasing its
mortgage liabilities from
£98,000 to £146,000.
The group gets by on
£523,288 of fixed assets, an
increase of £201,516 during
1958-59, apparently the result,
mainly, of the Cullen Bros,
purchase.
The Cullen enterprise,
because of transfer of some
operations and keen competi-
tion, showed “negligible”
profits in 1958-59. A good
deal will depend on how it
shapes henceforth.
The sharemarket in Mel-
bourne pays 20s. for Jaques
10s. ords. for a yield of 5 p.c.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
i i
a
V
f
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Moby Dick—Rehearsed”
Few people would dare to
make a play out of Moby Dick,
but Orson Welles has had a
try. He has done it, how-
ever, by concerning himself
less with the content of the
book than with the mechanics
of play-making, and it would
be a mistake to go out to
Sydney’s Elizabethan, where
the result is now loudly offer-
ing, in the hope of being helped
to a fresh understanding of
Melville’s strange symbolism
or Ahab’s consuming obsession.
In an empty theatre a com-,
pany of strolling players—in
this case they have strolled all
the way from Melbourne’s
Union Theatre on a visit —are
rehearsing. After a quick lim-
ber-up on “Lear” (well laced
with arch theatrical jokes) they
take a trial-run through Mel-
ville. With only a few packing-
cases, ladders, ropes and a sail
for props, they have to suggest
everything else in the story —
the storms, the chase, the
whaling-gear, etc.—through
mime and balletics, establish-
ing mood and atmosphere with
chanties, lighting and the usual
sound-effects.
The actors, conveniently
enough, carry a considerable
freight of their Shakspearian
repertoire over into the action:
scene after scene is loud with
echoes of “Lear,” “Hamlet”
and the histories. The dialogue
too, is full of secondhand
Shakspearian cadences. How
many of them are Melville’s
and how many Welles’s it
would be hard to say, but
they come at you in wave after
wave of thundering rhetoric
until you feel like calling for
a lifebelt, or at least a company
of actors more skilled at sort-
ing it all out.
Welles’s idea has evidently
been to treat us to a blow-out
in the old-fashioned, actor-
manager style of playing that
he most favors —to show us
that, in spite of all that has
happened between Stanislavski
and Brecht, this style can stiff
create powerful illusions.
All he succeeds in showing
here, however, is that Shaw
and all the other critics of this
style were right in saying that
it thrusts the content of drama
aside and tends to reduce
theatre to the level of mere
showmanship.
Captain Ahab (Frank Thring) with something on his mind
in "Moby Dick-Rehearsed” at Sydney Elizabethan.
In John Sumner’s well-mar-
shalled production, Frank
Thring, an actor of consider-
able strength and resonance,
gave us an Ahab of knitted
brows, slitted eyelids and other
fierce borrowings from
Laughton and Welles himself.
Frank Gatliff delivered the
sermon in the Nantucket chapel
with fine eloquence and res-
traint, almost persuading us
that we were about to witness
a deep sounding of Melville’s
symbolism; but later, as Star-
buck, he could not find either
the reality of the character or
the attitudes large enough to
pass for it.
Lewis Fiander, a much too
perky and lightweight Ishmsel,
hurried his share of the thick
narrative prose across the foot-
lights like a refined race-com-
mentator, leaving us to worry
about whatever precise mean-
ing it might have had. Mary
Hardy found some real pathos
in the overwritten scene about
the cabinboy’s intimations of
mortality. The rest of the cast
coped like good troops with
all the shouting, rocking and
running about demanded of
them.
J.A.
*x* *
The Borovanskys
The Borovanskys are con-
cluding their season at Sydney
Empire as delightfully as they
began it; and if the current
programme of four short
ballets, though amounting to
more than divertissements,
hasn’t the substance of the
opening - weeks’ full - length
“Sleeping Princess,” nor the
same value, for good or ill, as
a testing-ground for the com-
pany’s powers, nevertheless
short ballets, like small paint-
ings, have some distinct advan-
tages: inadequacy hardly gets
time to manifest itself ; brilli-
ance can be maintained at its
peak.
Paul Grinwis’s “Eternal
Lovers,” for example, with its
exceedingly slight story and
its general resemblance to “Les
Presages,” could hardly be
stretched into a full three-act
ballet; but as a one-acter, with
its striking surrealist settings
by William Constable and its
no - less - striking costuming,
miming and dancing, it is a
most exciting piece to fit into
any programme.
It was not, alas, quite short
enough to conceal a strange
lack of passion in Christiane
Hubert as the flaming Spirit of
Love, but the dancing was
admirable in its total effect and
was lit throughout by Paul
Grinwis’s dramatic interpreta-
tion of his own principal role.
Act Two of “Swan Lake,”
with the captivating Little
Swans, was just long enough
to display the youthful charm
of Marilyn Jones, as Odette,
without too much emphasising
that she has yet to develop as
a tragic actress as well as in
fluency of movement.
The pas de deux from “Don
Quixote,” with Kathleen Gor-
ham and Robert Pomie superb
in flaring red costumes against
black velvet drapes, was a
triumphant little piece of act-
ing and acrobatics; and “Le
Beau Danube,” where Estella
Nova was also very nicely
placed as the “First Hand,”
again brought Kathleen Got-
ham to the fore with a lovely
piece of character-dancing in
which her face was always as
bewitching as her feet.
♦♦♦
Danish Music
The concert given in Sydney
University’s Great Hall by the
Danish community to swell the
Opera House funds ranged


BUSH MUSIC CLUB
Old bush Folk Songs with music,
bush verse, illustrations and news.
“Singabout” quarterly magazine,
10/- per year from:
S. WAKEFIELD,
236 Marco Avenue,
Panania, N.S.W.
start the day right!
m.
uuo\»» c
F*
E«OE«
SH^
RB*!*
THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated in England )
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES* BU 4387 L. F. THORPE, Manager.
over Denmark’s five most
important composers. Four
of them wrote their music for
small string-orchestras and
chamber-groups during this
century; the other, song-
writer Peter Heise, was a con-
temporary of Schumann, and
his work bears the unmistak-
able imprint of the German
lied influence.
Two of these songs were
sung stylishly by Pamela Cole-
man, who has a good person-
ality to back-up a soprano of
easy delivery and
Another brace of them was
sung by Stewart Harvey, one
of Australia’s most accom-
plished baritones, who, in addi-
tion to copybook production
and ringing resonance, is able
to call upon a splendidly con-
trolled half-voice and impec-
cable phrasing. His enuncia-
tion in these songs of
wholesome sentiment was a
delight.
Charles Mackerras con-
ducted a string-orchestra of 15
players from the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra in a suite
by Carl Neilson. The piece
had agreeable themes, rich
harmonies and, in the second
movement, charming rhythmic
material played liltingly and
with a nice balance held be-
tween the five sections. A
Hoeberg piece, also cast in the
neo-classical style, skimmed
lightly but listenably over
emotion’s surfaces. A Sin-
fonietta by Holmboe, slightly
astringent and nerve-ridden,
was a highly skilled piece of
craftsmanship which the
orchestra played with the best
sparkle of the night.
Maurice Clare (violin), John
Paynter (’cello) and Neville
Amadio (flute) were together
in a taut and sinewy Serenade
by Riisager, in which the near-
human high voices of the
violin and the wind sang finely
against the baritone of the
’cello.
Leo Demant accompanied
the singers, and only a couple
of times failed to soft-pedal
and allow them to compete on
better-than-even terms.
❖ * *
“The Seasons of Love”
Out of all the cultural trap-
pings and paraphernalia of
Melbourne’s Moomba Festival
one little-publicised event
emerged as probably the purest,
the truest and the most artistic-
ally worth-while of the lot —
the lunch-hour recitals of music
and poetry from the 16th and
17th centuries presented daily
in the Kelvin Hall by Peter
O’Shaughnessy, guitarist Sadie
Bishop and singer Glen Balm-
ford.
“The Seasons of Love” was
the wide-ranging theme of their
programme, which drew most
of its inspiration from the
works of Elizabethan poets
and musicians.
Always scrupulously obedi-
ent to the demands of the
poem, O’Shaughnessy’s read-
ings were characterised by a
strength, a subtlety and an un-
failing clarity heard only too
rarely at such readings (especi-
ally the A.B.C. variety) in this
city. And if the meanings of
the poems weren’t always
equally clear it was probably
unavoidable—each demands a
concentration and relaxation
difficult to achieve in so short
a time; and each has so much
to offer that it would be diffi-
cult —and perhaps even wrong
to try—to absorb all of it at
one hearing.
The same integrity of pur-
pose and avoidance of effect-
for-effect’s sake that gave dis-
tinction to O’Shaughnessy’s
readings was also evident in
the altogether delightful sing-
ing of Glen Balmford and the
finger-style guitar-playing of
Sadie Bishop, whether as soloist
or accompanist.
A.S.J.
♦♦+
Sartre and S.U.D.S.
Nowhere has Jean-Paul
Sartre dramatised his notions
about political and moral
freedom more exhaustively
than in “Lucifer and the
Lord,” now being produced
by Sydney University Drama-
tic Society at the Wallace
Theatre.
Here he projects his notions
into a time —the German
peasant-wars—when men, with
their social ’and moral order
in chaos, were thrust into that
terrible freedom to choose
their own values. Every ques-
tion revolves around Goetz,
an insurgent leader who
begins by identifying himself
with the Devil, then caprici-
ously chooses to identify
himself with God. His new-
found goodness, however, is
every bit as inhuman as his
evil was, and it causes just as
much, if not more, human
misery.
God does not exist, Goetz
learns, and man is abandoned
in a world forever strange to
his nature ; he must choose
his values within the limits of
this situation; there is no
valid choice beyond.
Nearly four hours long, and
with a population of 40-odd,
the play is hostile to clearer
synopsis. Sartre elaborates his
ideas with bewildering com-
plexity on the levels of both
emotion and ' intellect, some-
times shuttling back and forth
from one to the other within
the limits of a single scene.
In a play where so much
could go wrong it was under-
standable that producer John
Tasker should have emphasised
pace, volume and ordered
movement, even if this meant
leaving many a scene un-
trimmed. His reward was
that he sustained our interest
until the anticlimactic last
scenes ; but in many ways the
play was clearly beyond the
capacity of the -company as
a whole.
The role of Goetz, even in
its broad outlines, is forbid-
dingly difficult. Grahame
McPherson not only held these
outlines firmly but filled them
in, hour after hour, with
exceptional energy and depth.
lan Smith, Peter Fry, Rosa-
leen Smyth and Freda Lesslie
provided sound supporting
performances. Stefan Gryff
was particularly vivid as the
indulgence-selling priest.
J. A.
Artbursts
John Passmore
A “farewell exhibition” by
John Passmore at the Clune
Galleries (Sydney), consisting
of works from 1939't0 1960,
some for sale and some lent,
should have been larger and
more varied to do him full
justice. In particular one
misses the demonic seagulls of
a year or two ago when, poised
between his early devotion to
Cezanne and his later lapse
into abstraction, he emerged
most clearly with an individual
voice.
However, the Cezanne-like
paintings, whether his vibrant
still-lifes or his tree-patterns in
blues and greens, remain very
attractive and alive; and a
couple of beach-scenes, par-
ticularly “Saturday Fish 2,”
full of action sketchily sug-
gested, partly atone for the
missing gulls.
❖ ❖ +♦♦
Elwyn Lynn
In Elwyn Lynn’s show of
abstracts at Sydney’s Mac-
quarie Galleries it is difficult
to appreciate exactly what the
artist is driving at, except for
the exploitation of hessian and
newsprint.
True, there is a certain
elemental vigor and an occa-
sional happy sense of color in
his work ; but most of these
paintings steer perilously close
to mere experimentation.
Lynn’s energy in selecting
just the right bits of hessian
and scraps of foreign newsprint
is admirable ; but these items
don’t seem to form integral
parts of the compositions—
certainly not in “Abendblatt,”
with a German headline divid-
ing the frame, and in “Silent
Voices,” with bits of Japanese
(or Chinese) newsprint. How-
ever, there is some sort of feel-
ing in “Sampan,” with its
intriguing slab of three-tone
hessian and white daubs.
On the whole, Lynn’s
generally rocky cartography is
best suited to work done in
quieter colors —“The Sheik,”
although squiggly, has a com-
paratively satisfying arrange-
ment of shape and color ; and


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON a
OSVUJVAA . i
PTY LTD .
JacksonS O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
Public Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA — (In Divorce.)
No. 3 of 1960.
Launceston District Registry.
TO LESLIE JAMES BEDDOW formerly
of 79 West Tamar Road Trevallyn in
Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE that'a Peti-
tion has been filed in this Court en-
dorsed with a notice to you to appear
and thereafter to make answer to the
charges in the Petition of JEAN
BEDDOW for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion In default
of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved and pronounce judgment
therein vour absence notwithstanding
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
for the purposes aforesaid within thirty
days after the date of this publication
an appearance must be entered either
at the Launceston District Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania Cameron
Street Launceston aforesaid or at the
Principal Registry of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania Franklin Square Hobart in
the State of Tasmania. DATED the
9th day of March, 1960.—J. V.
TANNER, District Registrar.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES MILTON SHANAHAN
late of Crow’s Nest in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
NONIE MURIEL SHANAHAN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3654 of 1959
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Mint Building
Macquarie Street Sydney by 24th May
1960 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from L. W. WILLIAMS,
Solicitor, of 79-81 Campsie Street,
Campsie, or his Agents, JONES JONES
& JONES, Solicitors, of 76-78 Clarence
Street, Sydney.—-C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin’ or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
‘‘Red Seal,” where he forgets
the seashell effect of dimen-
sionalism, is an essay in pastel
planes.
❖ ❖ ❖
At Watson’s Bay
For some mysterious reason
the Watson’s Bay Wharf ex-
hibition in Sydney is held, not
on the wharf at Watson’s Bay,
but at Anthony Hordern’s. The
lady who sells the catalogues
is, however, embedded in a
fishing-net.
The exhibition looks very
much like the Royal Art
Society having a bargain-sale,
but is redeemed by a few works
of genuine force or sensitivity:
notably a small (presumably
early) seapiece by Lance
Solomon, Arthur Murch’s
firmly modelled red-headed
nude with the cat, Norman
Lindsay’s gay “Through the
Curtain,” Mollie Flaxman’s
“The Bridge” and “Lakeside”
(two little watercolors full of
feeling), Molly Johnson s
“Burnt Trees,” Rhys Williams’s
“In Fallow,” Allan Hansen’s
“Gundy Landscape,” a nude
by Garrett Kingsley, and Ken-
neth Mac Queen’s delicate
watercolor “The Wharf.”
❖ ❖ *l*
Travelling Scholarship
Painters chosen to submit
works to be judged for the
1960 Helena Rubinstein travel-
ling-scholarship are Charles
Blackman, John Brack, Leon-
ard Crawford, Robert Dicker-
son, Leonard French, Thomas
Gleghorn, Leonard Hessing,
Roger Kemp, Jon Molvig, Bill
Rose and Fred Williams.
The winner will be an-
nounced on August 23, 1960.
❖ *> ❖
Gallery Purchases
The opening of the “Pur-
chases and Acquisitions for
1959” exhibition at the N.S.
Wales Gallery has been post-
poned from Wednesday, March
16, to Saturday, March 26. Of
the 222 items, 110 were gifts
or bequests. Works included
are: paintings and sculptures
bought- by the trustees’ over-
seas buyer of contemporary
art, Bryan Robertson, who is
soon to visit Sydney on a lec-
ture-tour;- a gift of rubbings
from monumental brasses in
England; 17 graveposts from
Melville Island and 29 bark-
paintings from Arnhem Land
presented by Dr. Stuart
Scougall; a small group of
works bequeathed by Mrs.
Florence Blake, which includes
two portraits of her by Tom
Roberts. Among the Austra-
lian artists represented are
Russell Drysdale, Godfrey
Miller, John Passmore, Robert
Dickerson, Margo Lewers, Jon
Molvig, Thomas Gleghorn.
♦J* +*♦
Graphic Art
A “first Australian graphic
art exhibition” is to be held
by the N.S. Wales Contempor-
ary Art Society in June. Two
prizes are offered —one of £lOO
donated by Dr. S. Ambroza
and one of £5O donated by the
Lithuanian Society. Details
from the secretary, C. and A.S.,
33 Rowe Street, Sydney.
Films
“Home from the Hill”
There is meaty drama in
this story about the stresses
and strains placed upon various
members of a U.S. Deep South
family whose head is a notori-
ous philanderer. The bitter-
ness between him and his wife
flows from her disdain of
his behavior, which in turn
is aggravated by her frigidity.
He sets out to make a man
of his 17-year-old son, who
up till then has been pampered
by his mother. He succeeds ;
then the son, learning from
his mother the truth about the
old man, gets on the high
horse ; but comes down again
when he himself gets a girl into
trouble. A by-blow of the
father’s who lives on the estate
and cheerfully accepts his lot,
knowing exactly who he is,
looms large in the events that
lead inexorably to tragedy.
Robert Mitchum, throwing
aside the familiar lethargic
air, gives a very good account
of a man who knows his own
weaknesses and strengths. He
succeeds in winning sympathy
for a character who on the
bare facts would scarcely
qualify for it.
Eleanor Parker is more
assured in portraying icy dis-
dain and domestic martyrdom
than the intense emotion she
is called upon to project when
tragedy finally severs, ironi-
cally, a possible reconciliation
with her husband.
The most sensitive work is
done by George Hamilton as
the legitimate son —especially
where he is called upon to
convey gradual understanding
of his father’s many-sided
character —and by George
Peppard as the manly, com-
passionate natural son.
At Sydney Liberty.
The other Sydney release is
“Tommy the Toreador”
(Esquire), in which Britain’s
ace groaner, Tommy Steele,
is pushed into a film about
bull-fighting in Spain and told
by the director to be a
comedian, in which role he’s
an ace groan.


Departed Spinechillers
Spectres, Spooks, Bunyips
By "WONGAN"
Once the life and soul of our folk-
lore, spooks and bunyips and the
like are seen and heard no more
in Australia. Their heyday was
the horse-and-buggy era; motor-cars
ruined them. Failing to cope with the
change, they emigrated from these
shores.
Spooks were more numerous and
widely distributed than the bunyips, for,
whereas an expanse of deep water was
essential to a bunyip’s welfare, a spook
could cope with very arid conditions —
a big advantage outback. Were a watery
home available the spook would use it;
otherwise any homestead ruin or deserted
hut sufficed. So if any district’s folklore
didn’t include a spook it was only
because its people were mentally
uncreative
The older-settled areas of the Murray
Basin (Furphy’s country) supported a
heavy population of both spooks and
bunyips, as yarns told by that country’s
old-timers prove
„ . , ...
Some bush spectres were as unoriginal
as their town cousins, and did stodgy
work-siicn as slamming doors, sliding
locked windows up with a vicious bang,
a nd taking swipes at shelves loaded with
good china.
But most of them preferred a life in
the open. One eccentric character, the
Headless Horseman—maybe related to
Washington Irving’s—enjoyed a gallop
across Riverina’s plains when the moon
was in a certain phase. Those in the
know said he was on the trail of the cove
who caused him to do his block; but
as likely as not he was following-up clues
°P *he whereabouts of the missing top-
piece,
, _
Hl r antern wa ? an
, mtn jP lc l wraith who liked to toil on
ar mg ts>
Legend had it that her pioneer hubby
or keeps in the wild mountain-
blushes beyond Gloucester, in N. S.
Wales, and after she passed in her chips
hls wife developed the habit of returning
from Yonder to continue the search for
. .
Swinging her lantern, she would
fu Um L t .^ lrougJl n * g kt; and when
be J '' bke J h ? r ca t echoed
through the hills, fierce dogs whimpered
and cowered behind their shivering
masters
Riverside flats, too, were traps for
unwary travellers. Many of these ideal
camping-spots were tenanted by a rather
different and very difficult type of spook—
subtle characters who disdained personal
meetings with their victims. Instead, they
“He's a nice boy, really, but he HAS got such clammy hands!”
took it out on their horses and scored
double points.
Around midnight prads which till then
had been quietly nibbling thistles and
camp-scraps would emit ear-splitting
screams and make a jet-propelled take-off
from the locality. The crafty spook then
wafted back to his watery cot, chuckling
spitefully as he visualised the infuriating
horse-hunt ahead of the cursing travellers
next day.
Dunyips lacked spectral chilliness, but
were dangerous. They varied
refreshingly in size, shape and habits.
Some resembled wild-eyed catfish as big
as steers, others bore a strong family-
likeness to sea-serpents. Water was their
natural habitat, but they were
amphibious; and one lucky sprig was
blessed with wings and lived a three-
dimensional life.
All bunyips were ferocious and evil-
eyed. Their cries in the night ranged from
intimidatory snarls to muffled boomings.
Bunyipologists are at variance on
whether mating-desire or inborn cussed-
ness caused the cries.
Hard-drinking bushmen returning to
camp by moonlight often sighted
bunyips; some had even seen the
monsters hauling stock into swamps, it
being well known that they were partial
to veal and lamb.
Honors, apparently, were always with
the bunyips, for, whilst they were credited
with inside information concerning the
sudden disappearance of sundry
incautious bushmen, no human ever
bagged a bunyip.
Never really secure in their jobs, the
position of the Creep Folk became
untenable when the bushmen sold their
horses and bought jalopies. Thereafter,
instead of camping-out by infested billa-
bongs and haunted pools, the bushmen
rattled home each night to town or
selection, leaving the lonely spinechillers
to amuse themselves as best they could.
Trying to work territory which was
devoid of humans during the witching-
hours was an ignominy which the
tradition-conscious spooks and bunyips
refused to suffer. So, resentful and
unhappy, they left Australia. Latest
advice is that they’re doing fine in the
U.S., hiring themselves out as characters
to the people who produce newspaper
“funny-strips” in that remote country.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
r T~'HE advent of vigorous competition
about four years ago brought con-
siderable intensification in the rivalry
among cigarette - manufacturers in
Australia.
Remaining dominant in large sectors
of the national cigarette-market, and
fighting back where it has been put on
the defensive, British Tobacco has thus
far shown itself capable of maintaining
its leading position.
The co. by now has adjusted itself to
the unrelenting pressure of the competi-
tive “filter-tip” brands, at one stage helped
along by the great lung-cancer scare.
By the largest tobacco- and
cigarette-producer in Australia, the co.
today puts out such well-known brands
as Temple Bar, Craven “A,” Ardath,
Capstan (in three varieties) and Turf.
Garrick is the co.’s “filter-tipped”
conventional - size mild cigarette.
Hallmark and Ascot represent British
Tobacco on the “king-size” filter-tip
market. The co. also manufactures a
“mentholated” filter - cigarette (Kool).
Lucky Strike is the latest addition, and
has so far proved very successful. In
addition, the co. manufactures pipe and
“roll-your-own” tobacco and cigars,
enjoying almost a monopoly in this line
of business.
Although there was an easing in the
cost of Southern Rhodesian tobacco, the
prices of American and Australian leaf
“rose so sharply that they have created
a very real problem.” Trading on an
intensely competitive market, Australian
tobacco-manufacturers find it difficult to
pass-on increases in labor and raw-
materials costs to the consumer.
It is hoped that rising modern output-
capacity and more economic use of the
tobacco-leaf (the main virtues of the
expensive modern machinery still being
installed) will continue to offset “strong
upward pressure” in production-costs.
Disclosed consolidated pre-tax profit
was £182,770 higher at £4,712,004, add-
ing-back £570,000 transfers to “reserves
out of the year’s profits,” plus £IOO,OOO
“set aside from the earnings during the
year to provision for increased cost of
replacing plant.”
The result was arrived at after writing-
off £633,439 for depreciation (up
£83,518), paying £393,513 interest on
external borrowings, and deducting
£7270 divs. to outside shareholders.
Tax-provision at £1,965,713 was much
the same as in the previous term, rising
by only £13,030. Both provisions looked
a bit high on the profits disclosed, but
the picture is complicated by subsidiaries
and heavy depreciation-rates charged
against earnings. Consolidated net profit
after tax was revealed at £2,746,291 (up
£169,740):
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries.*
z Dividends ,
Pref. Re-
Oct., Profit. 6i p.c. Ordinary. serves.t
£ £ £ £
1953. . 1,078,687 111,188 9 p.e. = 963,970 5,935,739
Share premiums, £669,424 .. .. 6,605,163
1954. 111,188 10 p.c. =1,338,848 7,064,698
1955. .2,006,259 111,188 10 „ ~1,338,848 7,620,921
1956. .2,283,380 111,188 10 ~ ~1,338,848 8,454,265
Share-premiums capitalised, £2,004,349 6,449,916
1957. . 2,555,5-71 111,188 10 p.c. =1,445,813 7,448,486
Surplus provision’s written - back,
£1,334,374 8,782,860
1958. .2,576,551 111,188 10p.c.=1,873,672 9,374,551
1959. .2,746,291 111,188 10 „„ 1,873,672 10,135,982
* After deducting outsiders’ interests. t Subject to
intangibles, £3,996,009 at 31/10/’59.
Unchanged 6 p.c. pref.-divs. require-
ments took-up £lll,lßß. The ordinary
(and “B’’ ord. shares) div.-rate was
steady at 10 p.c., absorbing £1,873,672.
The disclosed earning-rate on the
average ord. capital improved to 14.1 p.c.
(13.1 p.c. in the previous term, and
16.9 p.c., 16.3 p.c. and 14.1 p.c. on lower
average capital over three years back to
1955).
British Tobacco is in a much stronger
position than the formal accounts
indicate. Reserves got £761,431, and were
shown at £10,135,982 at balance-date
(including £850,000 provision for in-
creased cost of plant-replacement),
subject to £3,996,009 intangibles.
The co. made a private issue of
£3,700,000 1\ p.c. unsecured notes, lifting
total long-term outside borrowings to
£7,700,000. The additional note-capital
will be used mainly to extend manu-
facturing facilities. Bank-accommodation
dropped by £3,537,007 to £3,154,753.
Paid-up capital remained unchanged
at £20,447,308 in 1,710,588 6 \ p.c. 20s.
cum. prefs., 18,117,983 20s. ords. and
618,737 20s. “B” ords. The “B” ords.
carry the same div.-rights as the ords.,
but have restricted voting-powers. In
the unlikely case of winding-up, the
“Bs” would only share pro rata with the
ords. in any surplus assets after the prefs.
and ords. had been repaid their full face-
value.
Working-capital was £27,490,945:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref. .. £1,710,588 £1,710,588 £1,710,588
Ord. .. 18,736,720 18,736,720 18,736,720
Reserves .. 7,448,486 9,374,551 10,135,982
Outside interests 75,975 75,975 75,675
Notes . .. 4,000,000 4,000,000 7,700,000
Overdraft . . 6,276,449 6,691,760 3,154,753
Creditors .. 4,436,806 4,573,696 4,297,333
Tax provision,
etc. ~ 2,706,638 2,318,890 2,209,282
Final divs. .. 374,735 374,734 374,734
£45,766,397 £47,856,914 £48,395,067
Freeholds . . 2,020,635 2,265,885 2,296,843
Plant, etc. . . 2,914,320 3,389,720 3,687,395
Shares other cos. 102,601 102,601 887,773
Stock, etc. .. 32,392,635 33,736,896 32,667,715
Debtors . . 4,297,620 4,329,810 4,807,258
Cash, bonds . . 42,827 36,243 52,074
Goodwill, etc... 3,995,759 3,995,759 3,996,009
£45,766,397 £47,856,914 £48,395,067
Investments in other cos. increased by
£785,172 to £887,773, _ “reflecting the
development of the co.’s interests in other
enterprises.” British Tobacco accelerated
diversification of its interests. During
the year the co. entered into partnership
with the American Machine and Foundry
Co. of New York and the local Stirling
Machinery Pty. American Machine and
Foundry is a well-known manufacturer
of tobacco-machinery and other indus-
trial and precise factory-equipment.
Stirling Machinery produces bakery-
plant, and its plant and buildings have
formed the nucleus of the new show,
AMF-Stirling, Ltd.
Over the past eight years American
Machine and Foundry achieved “out-
standing successes” in manufacturing and
marketing automatic pin-spotting equip-
ment for ten-pin bowling, a popular
American game. It is hoped to introduce
this pastime to Australia and develop a
market for pin-spotting machines.
Considerable interest was aroused by
the co.’s purchase of the 64,000-acre
Glenrock station in N.S.W. Formally
this valuable cattle and sheep property
was bought by the co. on behalf of two
of its directors.
The matter “is not yet finalised,” but
the co.’s chairman says that the property
will be held by a “newly-formed c 0.,” in
which British Tobacco will have a “sub-
stantial but minority shareholding.” The
remaining capital will be held by other
domestic' and overseas interests, with
control vested in Australian shareholders.
British Tobacco continued its policy
of heavy capital-investment in modern
machinery. Depreciated consolidated
book-value of plant and equipment rose
by £297,675 to £3,687,395 (book-value at
cost went up from £5,903,535 to
£6,459,722). If the year’s depreciation
provision (£633,439) is added-in, visible
capital outlay during last term amounted
to £931,114. British Tobacco plans to
spend another £1,000,000 on new
machinery in the next two years.
In addition, a further £2,000,000 will
be spent over three years on general
expansion. The co.’s Victorian manu-
facturing facilities will be consolidated
at Virginia Park, East Bentleigh, where
a new administrative building will be
erected.
Australia’s annual tobacco-leaf crop
has increased to 19,000,0001 b. in the
1959-60 selling-season (9,000,0001 b. in
1957-58 and 15,000,0001 b. in 1958-59). As
from July 1, 1959, the compulsory pro-
portion of the relatively expensive
domestic leaf in tobacco and cigarettes
is p.c. and 22 p.c. respectively, rising
to 24| p.c. and 284 p.c. on July 1, 1960.
This high protection-wall favors domestic
leafgrowers, but also raises costs of raw
materials. Australian producers are
being paid more than twice the prices
received by growers in the U.S., Canada,
S. Rhodesia and N.Z.
In the long-run this poses a very serious
cost-problem to British Tobacco and its
competitors. On the other hand, the
total and per capita consumption of
cigarettes and other tobacco-products is
steadily growing, widening the market
and making possible greater economies
of scale.
The “filter” section of the market is
particularly competitive, but “plain”
cigarettes still form the larger sector.
Here Craven “A” seems to be doing well.
An additional competitive factor was
introduced by relaxation of import-
restrictions. The well-known American
brands (Camel, Chesterfield, Lucky
Strike, etc.) are becoming more freely


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. ALIEN
P. R. REVY
M. R. R. DO WRING
A. P. REYNORDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney. Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. BL 5911 (10 lines) Tel. B 5900.
available in certain parts of Australia.
The average retail price differential is
about 9d. for a packet of 20.
Net tangible backing works-out at
£ls 10s. lOd. each for the 20s. prefs.,
£1 7s. sd. for the 20s. ords. and 7s. 2d. for
the 20s. “B” ords.
The 20s. ords. change hands at 465. 6d.,
and the immediate return is 4.3 p.c. on
the basis of the steady 10 p.c. div.-rate.
Horwood Bagshaw, Ltd.
A manufacturer of agricultural
machinery, general engineer and
well-boring contractor, Horwood Bag-
shaw, Ltd., is based on South Australia.
The subsidiary Mitchell and Co. Pty.,
acquired in the previous term, holds the
Victorian State franchise for Lister
engines, etc., and also produces fodder-
conservation equipment and various
agricultural implements.
After good profits in 1953-55, earnings
slipped during 1956-58. The takeover of
Mitchell and Co. Pty., improved Hor-
wood’s earning-capacity and widened its
production-range and markets, and last
term’s profits showed considerable
improvement.
The year was said to be “quite satis-
factory.” Improvement in wool prices
towards the end of the term helped to
stimulate sales. Record turnover was
achieved by both the parent and sub-
sidiary cos.
The co. discloses a consolidated
balance-sheet, but its published revenue
figures cover only the parent co., plus the
dividend received from Mitchell and Co.
Another point to be held in mind is that
last term’s accounts are compared with a
15-months’ period in 1957-58. This
makes the recovery in earnings better
than they appear at first glance.
Gross profit for the year ended June
30, 1959, was £136,406 higher at £700,295.
Dividend from the subsidiary Mitchell
and Co. was up £16,000 at £30,000.
Expenses absorbed £98,434 more at
£600,514, including a £45,642 deprecia-
tion write-off (up £807).
Provision for taxation was £21,000
higher at £27,000, but looked rather low
at current rates. Net profit for the year
was £32,978 higher at £102,781.
Pref. div. was £10,073 higher at £18,466,
due to 173,341 20s. prefs. issued in 1958
as part-consideration for the acquisition
of Mitchell and Co.
The earning-rate on average ord.
capital improved to 16.9 p.c., compared
with 12.3 p.c. in 1958 (9.8 p.c. adjusted
on an annual basis) and 10.5 p.c., and
12.4 p.c. in 1957 and 1956.
The steady 10 p.c. ord. div. was well
covered, leaving £34,315 for reserves,
which also benefited by £2169 profit on
sale of capital assets, but were reduced
by £3046 tax underprovided in the
previous term. Parent co.’s reserves
totalled £650,578 at balance-date:
Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mch. Profit 6 p.c. 10 p.c. serves. serves.
31 & & £ £ £
1955 .. 146,953 4600 34,540 107,813 590,316
Reduction capital reserve, £4216 .. 586,100
Tax underprovided, £53 .. .. 586,047
Profit sale assets, £11,679 .. .. 597,726
8 p.c.
1956 .. 66,846 4600 35,409 26,837 624,563
Profit sale assets, £14,540 .. .. 639,103
Tax overprovided, £3334 .. .. 642,437
Reduction capital reserve, £l9ll . . 640,526
1957 . . 57.222 4600 40,000 12,622 653,148
Profit sale assets, £15,006 .. .. 668,154
Tax overprovided, £16,371 .. .. 684,525
Research and development written-off,
£50,047 634,478
To prov. long-service leave, £28,748 605,730
10 p.c.
1958*.. 69,803 8393 50,000 11,410 617,140
Surplus sale, £2169 .. .. .. 619,309
Tax underprovided, £3046 .. .. 616,263
6 & 8 p.c.
1959 . . 102,781 18,466 50,000 34,315 650,578
* 15 months.
Consolidated reserves are disclosed at
£686,065 (up £28,049). Apart from
£33,595 loans from the provident fund,
and £38,795 decrease in bank accom-
modation, there was little new in the
consolidated balance-sheet: —•
Paid capital— 1957. 1958.* 1959.*
Pref £76,659 £250,000 £250,000
Ord 500,000 500,000 500,000
Reserves .. .. 653,148 658,016 686,065
Loan .. .. - 33,595
Mortgages .. 50,000 147,750 140,750
Notes . . .. 229,875 220,000
Overdraft . . .. 160,760 288,65'6 249,861
Creditors .. 147,627 174,916 171,301
Tax provision .. 40,000 10,507 40,600
Long-service provn. - 42,954 11,022
Final div. .. 27,300 41,093 39,233
£1,655,494 £2,343,767 £2,342,427
Freehold property,
plant, etc. . . 655,432 ' 944,726 967,673
Stock . . . . 763,461 1,212,482 1,199,935
Debtors .. . . 226,673 185,462 173,363
Cash .. .. 9,928 1,097 1,456
£1,655,494 £2,343,767 £2,342,427
* Parent and Subsidiary.
Book-value of fixed assets was £22,947
higher at £967,673. Stock was £12,547
down at £1,199,935, remaining the
largest single item on either side. Much
of the co.’s visible financial strength con-
tinues to be tied-up in the market-appeal
of its current stocks carried from year
to year.
Current ratio worked out at almost
2.7 to one on the consolidated accounts.
Working-capital was satisfactory at
£862,737. Net tangible asset-backing was
£53 3s. for the 6 p.c. 20s. “A” prefs.,
£6 6s. 4d. for the 6 p.c. 20s. “B” prefs.
and the new 20s. 8 p.c. “C” prefs. (all
cum.), and 11s. lOd. for the ords.,
which have been split into ss. units.
During last term Horwood completed
the first stage of development of its. Dry
Creek (S.A.) property establishing the
Lister and Allis Chalmers division, said
to be part of a major long-term plan to
develop this 22-acre site.
The co.’s Mile End plant is inadequate
to cope with the expected increase in the
level of output. It is planned to gradu-
ally transfer manufacturing activities
elsewhere, “as the needs and economics
justify.”
In Victoria a complete re-layout was
made of the factory facilities (both of
plant and buildings). First alterations
will be made in the current year.
At the last sale in Sydney the ss. ords.
were traded for 6s. a unit. The immediate
return is 8.3 p.c. on the basis of a steady
10 p.c. div.-rate.
Whale Industries, Ltd.
VlZhale Industries, Ltd., surfaced the
’ ’ corporate horizon in 1951 with an
issued capital of £535,000 —140,000 ss.
shares were, issued in consideration for
the acquisition of Whale Products Pty.
(a co. formed in 1950 to establish a whal-
ing industry on the east coast of Aus-
tralia), Farm Margarine Pty. (now
inoperative) and Hi-Protein Pty. (to
market meatmeal and bonemeal as
manufactured by Whale Products Pty.),
and 2,000,000 ss. shares were issued to
the public.
Rarely venturing outside a five-mile
radius (it just isn’t necessary) of its shore-
based factory at Tangalooma, Moreton
Island, Queensland, the fleet of three
catchers hunts the hump-back on its
annual migratory journey to the tropics.
Last season the co.’s quota had been
stepped-up (600 hump-back whales in
1958 ; 660 in 1959), weather was kind,
time at sea from the firing of the first
harpoon to the flensing of the last whale
was only 63 days (65 days in 1958 and
then with the lower quota), and plant ran
smoothly, though the catcher Tangalooma
did break-down for part of the season.
The condition of whales caught, though
not so good as in the previous year, was
reasonable, and with improved processing
facilities, production of protein-meals set
a per-unit record. Output of oil and
meal finished up 10 p.c. above the 1958
figure.
Last term saw little variation in the
prices of whale-oil and -meal. Profits
rose by £21,576 to £171,940. Ascertained
after tax £105,000 (up £25,000) and
depreciation £70,000 (unchanged), the
improved showing works-out a healthy
32.1 p.c. on paid capital, 28.1, 27.5, 26.7
and 35.2 p.c. back to 1955:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
Oct. Profit, ' —Dividends s serves. Deficit.*
31, £ £ £ £
Premium paid for subsidiaries’ shares 31,500
Preliminary and establishment exes.,
etc., £45-,062 76,562
1952 .. 69,431 6 p.c. = 32,100 37,331 39,231
Reserves.*
1953 ..105,722 10 „ ~ 53,500 52,222 12,991
1954 ..152,805 14 p.c. = 74,900 77,905 90,896
1955 ..188,434 20 „ ~107,000 81,434 172,330
Sept.,
1956 f. .143,266 20 „ ~107,000 36,266 208,596
1957 ..147,115 20 „ ~107,000 40,115 248,711
From prov. for deferred maintenance,
£50,000 298,711
1958 ..150,364 20 p.c. =107,000 43,364 342,075
1959 ..171,940 20 „ ~107,000 64,940 407,015
* After deducting intangibles, £31,500 at 30/9/’59.
t 11 months only.
The stockholders took their usual 20 p.c.,
leaving £64,940 for transfer to reserves,
now £438,515. Every ss. invested in
Whale Industries in 1951, has, so far,


General Motors
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED LOAN STOCK
Principal and interest unconditionally guaranteed by
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, New York.
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
PER ANNUI^t
6, 10, 15 YEARS
£lOO or any multiple thereof may be invested in any or all of the currencies—-
3 Years, 6 Years, 10 Years, 15 Years. GMAC, Australia has the right to
repay earlier. Conditions of repayment, including premiums, are set out
in the prospectus. Copies of the full prospectus and forms of applica-
tion may be obtained from:
BRANCHES OF COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
Underwritten by
The Anglo Australian Corporation Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney.
Brokers to the Issue,
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra.
Applications for Loan Stock will proceed only on one of the forms of application referred
to and attached to a printed copy of the prospectus .
rise
yielded 6s. 6d. in divs. The div.-rate has
been kept steady at 20 p.c. since 1955.
Australia is a signatory to the Interna-
tional Whaling Agreement. The catch-
quota system, introduced in 1951 by the
International Whaling Commission, aims
at conserving world whale populations in
order that the whaling industry can con-
tinue on a stable basis. Thus expansion
by Whale Industries is effectively limited
in this direction. The co., however, is
pursuing a policy of diversification.
In association with the long-established
beach-miner, Z.R. Holdings, Ltd., the
co. formed Tangalooma Minerals, Pty.
to extract rutile, zircon, etc., from beach-
sands on Moreton Island. The project,
kicked-off in 1956, has been financed
mainly by advances from the two cos.
Repayment went well until two years ago,
when a sudden drop in mineral-sand
prices brought mining operations to a
halt.
At Sept. 30 last (Whale Industries’
balance-date) Tangalooma still owed
Whale Industries £62,500 (down £44,750),
and whether this amount can be recovered
is a matter for conjecture. The most that
can be said for the Tangalooma venture
is: “We are in a strong position to
resume operations when rutile and zircon
prices reach a satisfactory level.”
In July, 1959, Whale Industries
acquired 35,000-acre Gurley Station (near
Moree, N.S.W.) carrying a fine flock of
Merino sheep, a Merino stud, a Poll
Shorthorn stud and a Poll Shorthorn
herd as well as 3700 acres sown to wheat,
barley and oats. No profits from Gurley
Station Pty. have been brought into con-
solidated accounts as yet, but directors
look for a handsome contribution in the
current year.
Balance-sheet analysis emphasises a>
growing stature, and a decline in liquidity,
both movements the result of increased
diversification:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £585,000 £535,000 £535,000
Surplus . . . . 280,211 373,575 138,515
Provision for de-
ferred mainten-
ance, etc. .. 50,000
Creditors . . .. 29,615 11,463 54,952
Tax provision .. 151,791 165,089 150,245
Dividends .. 107,000 107,000 107,000
£1,153,617 £1,192,127 £1,285,712
Plant, building-sl
etc. . . [ 424,227 . 359,331 771,956
Ships .. J
Shares, etc., subsid. 146,750 122,250 76,500
Stock • • • • 198,923 206,436 360,019
Debtors .. .. 235,390 159,295 34,739
Cash .. 116,827 313,315 10,998
Intangibles .. 31,500 31,500 31,500
£1,153,617 £1,192,127 £1,285,712
Reflecting improvements to plant at the
shore-station, and acquisition of Gurley
Station, the book-value of plant, build-
ings, ships, etc., rose more than twofold


INVEST WITH SAFETY
n
3 months 5%
6 months 5Va%
9 months . . . 6%
12 months 6Vz%
18 MONTHS AMD OVER
%
DEPOSITS MAY BE WITHDRAWN ON
30 DAYS' NOTICE
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
SALES FINANCING OF FAMOUS PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY THE
FORD
CATERPILLAR
HYSTER
A.E.C.
FORDSON
LANZ
JOHN DEERE
LISTER
• CIRCULAR NO. 4 dated 30/9/59 with audited balance
sheet as at 30/6/59 available from:
All Members of the Stock Exchange and all
branches of
HASTINGS PEERING
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
William & Crown Streets, Sydney. Tel. FA 0322 (33 lines)
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Tel. 4-1481 (9 lines)
City Chambers, Alinga St., Canberra, A.C.T. Tel. J 4051
MAIL THIS COUPON"
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.,
G.P.O. Box 4333, SYDNEY.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, full details of
your terms deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
HD6I3
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2 Jr
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
(up £412,625 at £771,956).
Shares, etc., in subsidiaries fell
£45,750 to £76,500, almost
wholly attributable to reduc-
tion of loan outstandings by
Tangalooma Minerals.
Still dependent primarily on
whaling activities, prospects for
Whale Industries, in the current
term (catching operations begin
in June) depend largely on
movements in whale-oil prices,
About 50 p.c. of the catch in-
volves forward selling which is
due to commence shortly, and
present indications are that
prices will remain much the
same as those fetched in 1959.
In the eight years since its
formation, Whale Industries,
Ltd., has earned a good and
justifiable reputation on
’Change. Last December, after
the close of accounts, stock-
holders benefited from their
first issue, a three-for-five bonus
handout, which lifted paid
capital by £214,000 to £749,000.
This followed a revaluation of
the co.’s shareholdings in sub-
sidiary cos. —“The directors
anticipate that, in the absence
of unforeseen circumstances,
the existing rate of dividend
will be maintained on the in-
creased capital.” The ss. stock-
units, including the bonus addi-
tions, traded last week at 17s.
3d. to give an immediate yield
of 5.8 p.c. from a 20 p.c. div.
Net tangible backing at
balance-date, on the pre-bonus
capital, was Bs. 9d.
Alluvia] Gold, Ltd.
A lluvial Gold didn’t carry-
out any prospecting-work
during the year ended June 30,
1959. And most of the
revenue came from royalties
paid by Ravenshoe Tin Dredg-
ing, Ltd., which mines tin on
the Herbert River in Queens-
land.
Balance-sheet figures showed
little variation, with a slight
improvement in liquidity.
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £BO,OOO £BO,OOO
Sundry creditors . . 6 23
Tax provision . . 1,509 2,199
£81,515 £82,222
Accumulated deficit 24,099 18,661
Dredging leases .. -340 340
Plant, buildings, etc. 1,6 i 7 1,195
Shares in Kanieri Gold
Dredging, Ltd. . . 4,020 4,020
Sundry debtors .. 50,028 52,671
Cash i ( 4ii 5,335
£81,515 £82,222
The real asset-backing for the
80,000 20s. ords. is in the form
of £52,671 book-debts plus
£5,335 cash. External liabilities
amounted to £2222, leaving a
net backing of £55,784, equiva-
lent to 13s. lid. for each 20s.
ord.
Gross income for the year
was £8464 (up £3071), including
the £5784 royalties from
Ravenshoe.
After charging expenses,
depreciation (£421) and pro-
viding £2199 for taxation, net
profit was £B2l higher at £5438.
No dividends were declared.
The surplus reduced the accu-
mulated deficit to £18,661.
No trading in Alluvial’s
shares has been recorded
recently.


0
0
per
annum
paid
monthly
MMfyy,
Make your
money
really work
for you
this safe way
You purchase one of our vend-
ing machines. We lease the “
machine from you for an amount
equal to 20% of the cost of the
machine per annum, for a period
of five years. Your 20% is paid
to you by Trustee's Cheque from
a security trust fund in monthly
instalments (no deductions what*
soever). At the end of the con-
tract period, we repurchase the
machine at the full price paid
by you or, should you desire,
you may enter into a further
hiring contract.
UNIT No. 4
NOW OPEN
DON'T DELAY ACT TODAY
A regular monthly Income paid
by Trustee's Cheque plus your
full money back at the end of
5 years. Your holdings may b«
realised at ANY time.
mi?,
To Hygienic Product* Automatic Pty. Ltd.,
Suite 909, London Assurance House,
20 Bridge St., Sydney. Tel.: 27-5525-6.
Please send me, with'out obligation, full detail* of your
20% opportunity.
NAME (Block letters) ... ——
ADDRESS
NATP23/62
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Signs of a tougher monetary
policy are evident. The
Government is clearly deter-
mined to avoid repeating previ-
ous errors of the “too little and
too late” kind. Inevitably the
financial pattern is made to
seem confused, with the
Treasury moving contrariwise
in several directions at once.
An extensive programme of
public expenditure is in hand.
This, especially the part of it
that relates to improvement of
the roads, is long overdue and
fitting enough to the nation’s
prosperity, but it has to be paid
for, and the mounting Budget
estimates have caused M-P.’s of
both parties to express their
apprehension. Another lurk-
ing unknown is the effect of
the Government’s anything-
but-tough handling of the rail-
waymen’s strike: while the
peace-saving wage-increase is
not in itself inflationary its
repercussions could be serious.
Two men, the Chancellor of
the Exchequer and the Gover-
nor of the Bank of England,
have for some time been given
to repetitive exhortations; the
one for lower prices and the
other against too-hopeful in-
vestment in equities. And, not
long after the bank-rate im
crease, the Bank of England
withdrew the automatic sup-
port with which it buffets gilt-
edge stocks. This gave the
market a sudden jolt which, in
a less buoyant economy, might
have been serious. The reason
for the action was to restrain
the banks (whose loans to
clients rose by £B6 million in
one month alone) from selling
investments to finance over-
drafts and, presumably, to
check demand.
It is doubtful whether the
anomaly between fixed-interest
stocks and ordinary shares has
ever been more pronounced,
for the shadow over the gilt-
edged market coincided with
the announcement of large rises
in profits and generous in-
creases in dividends.
Where There’s a Will —
Any traditionalist who ob-
jects to producers messing
about with Shakespeare will
suffer apoplexy at the Mermaid
Theatre, where they have made
an anti-war play out of “Henry
V.” This must be the ultimate
in dramatic inversion, and,
granted that the original can be
embarrassingly jingoistic, must
have caused a long line of
Shakspeareans, scholars, pro-
ducers and actors, to spin in
their graves.
If ghosts could walk, the
assembly at Puddle Dock
would be bigger than the com-
bined armies at Agincourt and
far, far more frightening.
Keeping to the Mermaid’s
twice-nightly policy, Bernard
Miles and producer Julius Gell-
ner have been forced to cut
drastically (Falstaff’s death,
the Dauphin’s horse, Bur-
gundy’s lament over France
and even that delicious
patrician line about separating
the dead nobility from the
common men have all gone),
but they have yet contrived to
add more than they have
retained.
The result is not “Highlights
of Henry V” but rather a
Brecht and bitter improvisa-
tion. Henry and court are in
cricket flannels when the
French Ambassador delivers
his soft-ball insult. Afterwards,
they wear battledress and in-
dulge noisily and violently in
modern warfare, with appro-
priate musical interludes
(“Roses of Picardy,” “The
Bells of St. Mary’s” and “Roll
Out the Barrel”). Katharine is
first seen under the hair-dryer,
although the French court in-
congruously has a period look.
Pistol (Aubrey Woods) wears
a handle-bar moustache, and
Henry (William Peacock),
though a born leader, is as sad
and reluctant a soldier as ever
roused his men to fight for
“Harry, England, and Saint
George.” (Why didn’t they
leave that one out?) Other
effects include a real cannon
(and real blast), a cinema
screen and projection of march-
ing soldiers from both world
wars.
Chorus (Edgar Wreford) has,
unaccountably, been retained.
The superimposing of “atmo-
sphere” does away with his
need and it is difficult to hear
him above the din and crackle
of warfare. But he, almost
alone, speaks poetry in the old-
fashioned way and ought, one
feels, to be in the name part;
he is also the first of his kind
to play at all (let alone play
well) on a mouth-organ and
concertina.
The one realisation to a
traditionalist (who, neverthe-
less, is by no means unrecep-
tive’ of innovation) is how flat
the words sound after all the
forays and bangs and flickers
that serve only to rob them of
their power.
Capital Barbara
The Old Vic “Saint Joan”
makes a colorful, stimulating
and thoroughly entertaining
evening out. Producer Douglas
Seale has gilded the thread of
the play and pulled it taut. Of
the four or so productions seen
during the past thirty years
(including an early Sybil Thorn-
dike revival) this is the hand-
somest and easiest to follow.
Seale’s opening is inspired:
the curtain rises in darkness,
there is a long pause, and then
the lights come on with sudden
brilliance to reveal the “no
eggs” scene apparently in con-
tinuity. The pace is fast and
the development breathtaking.
All this, of course, tends to
bring out the illusionist Shaw
rather than the man-of-letters
Shaw. How clever, how slick
and, sometimes, how flippant
is his dramaturgy! Nonethe-
less, if “Saint Joan” is to go
into the repertory of classics-
for-the-masses this is an ex-
cellent model.
Barbara Jefford’s Maid has
not satisfied all witnesses, but
one, at least, rates her as high
as Sybil Thorndike’s. She is
feminine yet sexless, earthy yet
commanding, devout yet self-
willed. An interesting aspect
of her characterisation is that
she is not saintly. This may
seem to be a strange and para-
doxical remark until one re-
members that sainthood is
decreed by posterity, not by
contemporaries.
At no time, before or after
death, does this Joan of Arc
turn dewy-eyed towards heaven
and at no time does she
evidence conscious humility.
In the trial scene, visibly
seared and wasted by harsh
captivity, Joan is not only
agonisingly perplexed but also
embittered and defiant beyond
reason. Since, in real life,
prolonged suffering debilitates
rather than ennobles, she is
human.


Guinea, Ames watches Doc.
Jimmy take it all in. Watches
him keenly.
“Lonely, eh?”
“Man, you said it.” The
words drift right from Doc.
Jimmy’s heart. “When I’m not
real busy—lonely!”
Ames furtively takes in the
cloud-development. He doesn’t
want to go for a few minutes
more.
“I got me some leave soon,”
says Doc. Jimmy.
“Good! That’s real good!
What will you do?”
“Go find my Jeannie.”
“What?”
“Go find my Jeannie. You
know, man, for the past half-
year or more all night I can
see my Jeannie. And all the
time I see her clearer and
clearer. I’m going right home
to New Orleans and find my
Jeannie! ”
“You know this Jeannie?”
Ames says quietly.
“No. But she’ll sure be
someone to know.”
“You just dreamed up this
Jeannie? And her name?”
“Let’s say I’ve seen her from
here. I’ll know her. Yeah
man —that’s one thing sure. I’ll
know my Jeannie!”
Ames stands, sweeps a lean
hand up and around the clouds
joining forces and beginning
to crowd the valley.
“Good luck, Doc. I’m with
you all the way!”
He climbs aboard, wakes the
motor, swings the tail and
roars down the sloping strip,
dwindles to a droning silver
bee, turns wide and moves like
a pinpoint of light against the
dull blue vastness of the valley
wall.
\TDhile Doc. Jimmy’s mind
* ’ follows the plane his own
men cut down a couple of slim
casuarinas, strip them, skin the
bark off and twist it into rough,
tough ropes. The cases are
slung, the poles hoisted onto
sooty shoulders.
It’s an eight-mile walk to
the mission, westward along
the north flank of the valley.
Doc. Jimmy settles into the
easy swinging stride that he
can keep up days on end. The
track is a greasy rut worn
deep by many generations of
native feet. It winds around
the contours through shoulder-
high grass. The ordinary
observer would see only Doc.
Jimmy. His followers, dressed
in plumes and leaves, seem
part of the surrounding vegeta-
tion.
Where the volcanic violence
of the range calms to gentler
mountain-swells near the floor
of the valley is the best place
to live. The region is a fear-
some riptide of mountains,
once fluid and in turmoil, now
fixed in form forever. There’s
tranquillity in the valley-
troughs, under the dark loom
of the ranges.
Doc. Jimmy’s house and
mission rest on a grassy ripple
high enough to look down on
the evening cloud carpeting
the valley. Tropic flowers
crowd the thatch-roofed, cane-
walled house, hospital, and
mission. On a nearby slope is
the dark green of newborn
tea and coffee. The house is
quite large, round, with coolie-
hat thatch extending to cover
the circular veranda. The
veranda-rail is just the right
height for a man to rest on
his elbows and contemplate
the smoky, cloud - streaked
valley, to watch the dying sun
fling his last red spears along
the valley.
“Kai, masta Doc?” in a soft
gutteral. Doc. Jimmy turns
from the railing to the deep-
lined coppery face at his
shoulder. He nods and goes
inside to eat.
The house is divided in
four, one smaller room allow-
ing a passage right through
to the cook-house beyond. The
floor is a springy rattan of
pit-pit cane. The dining-room
contains a large stone fireplace,
and a hole in the rattan ceiling
lets the smoke escape. The
smoke has shellacked the ceil-
ing a shining bronze. It’s cold
up here at night. While Doc.
Jimmy eats a leg of sucking-
pig with vegetables and drinks
his coffee a boy crouches over
the fire, blowing it gently to
life.
Later Doc. Jimmy sits beside
his Jeannie, staring into the
fire, watches her warming her
hands at it. Drums begin to
thrum high on the mountain,
the black air carries a native
chant. Jeannie turns to her
Doc. Jimmy, eyes wide in
query.
“It’s nothing, honey,” he tells
her. When the fire dies the
eastern stars have climbed half-
way up the sky. Doc. Jimmy
wakes stiff and shivering. He
goes to bed.
"Carly evening a couple of
months later. Half-a-
dozen pilots sprawl at ease in
cane chairs in the charter com-
pany’s mess. A bottle of rum
stands on a trestle table. Per-
mitted in the evenings.
A chubby man in dapper
white sits at the table with
some paper-work before him.
By his expression paper-work
offends him to the very soul.
Something else has offended
him to the very soul. His eyes
leap from a message and shoot
fire at the sprawlers.
“What the bloody hell
happened to Chalmers at Tele-
fomin?”
“What it says there,” says
Ames.
“What did happen?”
“Hit a soft patch landing
and turned over. D.C.A.
should have known about the
patch and told him. What they
get paid for. It didn’t show
from the air.”
“ D.C.A! In fact
double D.C.A! Prop.,
mainplane and tailfin! Five-
thousand quids’-worth! And
Chalmers with a busted nose!”
“If we don’t like it we can
always do something else,”
says Ames. “What’s on for me
tomorrow?”
“Two runs into Kengu,
police-boys and stores. Three
if they want a third. Spot of
strife there. Then if the clouds
haven’t mucked everything,
pick up Doc. Jimmy and bring
him here. He’ll be waiting at
the strip in case you turn up.
He’ll have a hundred-and-forty
pounds of gear. He weighs
one-five-three.”
“It’ll be a pleasure,” says
Ames.
It's an hour past noon and
clouding-in, but Ames can
still see known ground here
and there. A silver twist of
river a mile below. Abreast,
a razor-sharp peak shark-
finning through the streaming
cloud. Ames coasts beside a
ridge at 11,000 ft., looking for
a chance to cross. He’s carry-
ing a lot of back-loading. Just
room left for Doc, Jimmy’s
weight. Ha! This saddle looks
all right. Watch the clouds,
boy—watch the clouds—there
y’are, a bloody downdraught!
What about this one? This
looks better. Clouds floating
up. ' Don’t tell me we’re going
to get a lift over! Here we
go! Come on, old girl. You
beaut!
Below now lies the Ngapoa
Valley, cheerfully green where
the sun reaches it, gloomy and
menacing in the deep cloud-
shadow. The plane flies
through sunlight and shadow.
Cloud at all levels. The sun-
light shifts in the cockpit as
Ames turns, staring down. He
sees what he’s looking for,
straightens into a downslanting
beeline, aiming the plane at the
strip. It hurtles like a homing
arrow.
Ames doesn’t stop the motor,
just swings round at the end
of his run and points the plane
downhill, ready to go. Doc.
Jimmy sees to the stowing of
his gear and nimbly joins Ames
in the cockpit.
“Not much to see!” Ames
yells, waving a hand at the
surrounding whiteness.
Doc. Jimmy nods, not quite
understanding. His last flight
was when Ames brought him
into the valley. He watches
the crest of the range coming
slowly down to meet them.
He has a look at Ames. Ames
is leaning back relaxed like a
Mexican in the sun, eyes half-
closed. This flying must be
goddam easy when you get
the knack. Ames doesn’t look
relaxed as they make the
crossing.
A month later a postcard
comes from New Orleans.
“Man, I don’t know which
is best,” the postcard says.
Ames shows it to MacKenzie,
district-commissioner at the
base settlement.
“Is he talking about sex oc
geography?”
“Search me,” says Ames.
“It’s his old home-town and
he’s looking for a wife. Work
it out for yourself.”
“Don’t give me problems.
I’ve got ’em. How’s Chalmers’s
broken nose? Haven't seen
him.”
“Just what those classic
features needed. Makes him
look ruggedly handsome.”
“Good - looks are wasted
round here, anyway. We’re
not wasting anything, Ames old
feller, eh? See you later.”
Ames wanders out and sits
in the crisp mountain sunshine
warming the district-commis-
sioner’s veranda.
TJe’s sitting there in the
crisp mountain sunshine
six months later when a twin-
engined Dakota comes growl-
ing in for a fast high-altitude
landing and begins off-loading
passengers and freight.
Suddenly Ames is off the
veranda and striding quickly
towards the plane.
“We want to get going,
man,” Doc. Jimmy tells him
“All this here can wait.
People? We’ve seen millions.
I want to show Jeannie my-y-y
li’l mission! Jeannie, this here’s
Ames I been talking about.
Ames, meet my Jeannie.”
Ames sat them in the crew-
room and got organised. In
half-an-hour they’re nosing
into the blue, turning high,
wide and handsome towards
the first chaotic mountain


barrier. Ames trims the plane
on climbing course, then turns
round in his seat and gives his
passengers the old thumbs-up.
He’s put lush airline seats back
in the cargo department and
Doc. Jimmy and his Jeannie
appear to be enjoying the ride.
They appear to be enjoying
everything. Ames feels like
some sort of godfather to
Venus.
Ames takes time grinning
back at them for another look
at Jeannie. She’s small, beauti-
ful and looks French or
Spanish or both. She’s got a
sweet face and a very, very
nice smile. She spoke back at
base with a trace of accent.
Ames turns his face forward
more for politeness than from
any need to study the
approaching hurdle.
Not a cloud yet. No strife
this trip. Whew! Good job
getting Jeannie out of base
before the young patrol blokes
spotted her. Or the single
pilots. The sight of Jeannie’d
unsettle ’em for weeks.
Jeannie? Wonder what her
first name is ? Ames scribbles
the inquiry on a pad and hands
it back.
“Jeannie now,” comes the
reply in girlish roundhand.
As Ames gets the strip lined-
up and winds down the flaps
he can see natives streaming
in from all directions. They
gather thickly on either side
and close in as the prop, stops.
They felt in their hearts that
Doc. Jimmy had left them for
ever. But he said he was
going to his own country to
get a wife, and here he is with
his wife. AAAEeeee! A true
man, Doc. Jimmy! He gets a
stadium-sized ovation.
The sight of Jeannie causes
momentary silence. Their first
white woman. A young
matron clasps her bare breast,
raises her eyebrows and smiles
inquiringly at Jeannie.
“She means are you the same
as we are, honey,” says Doc.
Jimmy.
Jeannie touches her own
breast, nods and smiles back.
There’s a babble of approval.
“You did fine there, honey,”
says Doc. Jimmy.
“You reckon you can walk
eight miles?” Ames asks
Jeannie. “We can’t get down
any closer.”
“Yes, I can walk. And thank
you. You must come soon
and have a meal with us. I
can cook, too!”
“That’s a date! Well, all
your gear’s out. I’ll see you
soon.”
Ames swings-up into the
cockpit, starts-up and blasts
the tail round almost in one
motion. The plane’s empty
and light and fairly leaps off
the strip. Ames can't get out
of there fast enough. He
calms down, climbing through
the forming cloud towards the
range-top. Should be punish-
able with death, bringing a
girl like that in here. Boy —
I’ll drink some rum tonight!
“W HATS s^e like?” asks one
** of the cane - chair
sprawlers in the company mess.
“All right,” says Ames. He
reaches for the Rhum Negrita
and refills his glass.
“All right! I hear she’s an
animated Mona Lisa with a
touch of Marie Antoinette and
the twang of old guitars!”
“She’s alive,” Ames admits.
"....and the housing-shortage is still a grave problem .”
“But I don’t go for that exag-
gerated stuff.”
“Bull, Ames, absolute bull!
You’ve got the bloody shakes!
And that’s your fourth rum
in half-an-hour. She’s knocked
you rotten, man. Tell you
what —I’ll do your next run in
there. Don’t mind a bit. You
need a rest . . .”
“You want to look like
Chalmers?” says Ames.
“Well, confidentially, old
man, I’ve never had the
slightest success with this face.
Slight alteration might do the
trick. Perhaps just a light tap
here and there . . .”
“Hey, wake-up, Ames! ”
comes a chirpy voice from the
doorway. “Wake-up and tell
me all!”
Chubby comes in, immacu-
late as always in the evenings.
He sits at the table and beams
across at Ames.
“Secret’s out, Boss,” says
Ames. “She’s full-page front-
page. She’s beautiful,
beeeoootiful!” He puts an
elbow on the table and rests
his face wearily in the palm
of his hand. His other hand
reaches for the fifth rum.
“Just before you really get
stuck into that, young Ames,
here’s your programme for to-
morrow. You know Kengu
pretty well now. They want
two loads taken in there,
then . . .”
Ames listens, hesitates,
pushes the fifth rum from him.
“Goodnight, blokes,” he
says, “and sweet dreams!”
A gain the district-commis-
sioner’s veranda about
mid-morning.
“Thank God Ames is aloft,”
says patrol-officer Jonson. “I
can sit in my favorite chair.
Nice in the sun this morning.”
“You’ve said that each
morning for a year now,”
replies patrol-officer Stevens.
“Don’t make it monotonous.
You’re like a bloke I saw in
a film about Central America
who said every day at tiffin
‘Blasted hot in here!’ until his
mate murdered him.”
“It saves thinking-up new
things to say,” says Jonson,
“when there aren’t any.”
“Jonno! Steve!” comes a
double-barrelled roar from
district - commissioner Mac-
Kenzie’s office. Sergeant
Negap, on watch, shows a
double row of large white
teeth in a swarthy, deep-
grooved face at the sight of
white mastas leaping to obey.
“Sit down,” says MacKenzie,
shuffling papers. “It’s the same
old thing, new place.”
“What place?” Stevens wants
to know.
“Mubu. Mubu the Un-
known,” says MacKenzie in
deep, hollow tones, grinning
round his pipestem. “To con-
tact little-known peoples and
consolidate Administration in-
fluence. To show said
savages how immeasurably
more delightful life can be,
lived in the shade of the Flag.
To show by your own bear-
ing and behavior what admir-
able types they have the chance
to mix with.”
“When do we go?” Stevens
wants to know.
“Tomorrow a.m. You’ll be
flown to the Ngapoa, and from
there will cross into the
Kimiki by a pass twenty miles
east of Doc. Jimmy’s mission.
In this area the Kimiki are
disposed to be friendly. Doc.
Jimmy’s greased the rails for
you there.
“The Mubus are strictly
mountain people, rarely seen
down in the valley. Live up
on the far side of the Kimiki
Valley. Said to be near-pygmy.
Such fierce little devils, even
the Kimiki give ’em plenty of
room.”
“Sounds ticklish.”
“Only if you’re ticklish,
Jonno. Depends on you. Get
some intelligent Kimiki from
near the Mubus to go along
with you. He’ll probably know
their talk.
“Now the usual briefing.
Don’t panic at the first dart.
Call on ’em to down bows and
talk. More darts, have police-
boys fire over ’em. Still un-
convinced, and patrol in real
danger, convince ’em. Okay?
Good. You’ll have Sergeant
Negap and six police-boys.
Negap knows the Kimiki talk,
married one of ’em. Handy
bloke.”
“Everyone seems to be get-
ting married around here,” says
Jonson. “Have you got to be
handy?”
“You get handy with the
Mubu maries you’re a pin-
cushion,” MacKenzie grunts,
sending a spark from his pipe.
“And watch your police-boys
there. You’ve all got to be
Caesar’s wife on these jaunts.”
“Now it’s wives,” says
Jonson to Stevens with a daring
shrug. “His mind’s in a
groove. He needs leave.”
“What the bloody hell’s got
into you kids?” roars Mac-
Kenzie, thumping the table.
“Marriage, wives . . . you
hardly need to shave yet, let
alone . . . Look at me, forty-
four, and haven’t bothered
about it. Nose clean, too. Do
a man’s job for awhile, then
get married. That’s what Doc.
Jimmy did, if he’s in your
minds. Goddammit, I must be
cracking. Pair o’ schoolkids
get me raving. Run out and
play! ”
“It breaks the monotony,”
says Stevens outside, “but I
wouldn’t try it too often,
Jonno. Not with MacKenzie.”
“I simply want to be able
to tell the flying boys that we,
too, can unhorse the boss.”
“Well, I’m off to start on the
gear. Hullo there, Negap. You


come long Kimiki, na long
Mubu, eh?”
“Mi come, masta Siteve!”
says Sergeant Negap, big bare
feet planted firmly on the
sunny veranda, blue-and-red
sulu tight over bulging thighs
and chest.
“You like?”
“Mi laik, masta” —with the
big white grin.
“All he talk you like mary
bilong Kimiki, eh?”
“Mary bilong mi bilong
IQmiki!” —with a bigger, even
whiter grin.
“What name s’pose me laik
mary bilong Kimiki?”
“Natink you die finis,
masta!’’-—with a grin almost
catastrophic.
“Come on, Steve, he’ll split
his head in half.”
“Yeah, let’s fill our hope-
chests.”
A t sun-up Chubby and
Ames, using two planes,
dump Stevens, Jonson, police-
boys and stores on the Ngapoa
strip.
“Eight miles thataway,” says
Ames, pointing west along the
valley, “lies Doc. Jimmy’s mis-
sion. And twenty miles that-
away,” pointing east, “is where
you cross into the Kimiki.
Got it?”
“Don’t be so bloody pro-
prietary,” says Jonson. “D’you
think you could summon a
leading savage?”
“Sure thing. Meho,
tekerawa ! Meho! ”
“What’s this take her awa’?”
Jonson demands. “They talk
Scottish?”
“Nuts!” says Ames. “It’s
Ngapoa for come-hither. You
watch. Tekerawa, Meho!”,
And Meho strides through the
dusky crush, smirking proudly
behind red, black and yellow
paint under a crown of casso-
wary plumes.
“Gawdstruth, Meho, you are
painted up!” says Ames, rub-
bing his eyes. “Wouldn’t have
known you.”
Meho guesses the gist.
“Sing - sing,” he explains,
stretching the paint.
He watches the unloading,
then selects 30 cargo-boys to
carry for the patrol.
“Damn’ lucky to get ’em to
work while there’s a sing-sing
going,” Chubby comments.
“Doc. Jimmy again,” Ames
tells him.
“That’s one missionary doing
good,” says Chubby.
Like Meho the men wear
mainly paint and plumes.
There’s a broad bark arrow-
proof belt, a graceful ankle-
length net drape in front, a
bustle of leaves behind. They
carry spears, bows, arrows,
axes and knives. There are
long, wasp-waisted drums
covered at one end with pig-
skin. Quite a. few of Doc.
Jimmy’s discarded cigarette-
tin lids appear as nasal orna-
ments. Plenty of bead-and-
shell pendants.
The axe-heads are mostly
three-quarter size European,
with straight, tapering, native-
style handles. They’re used
and brandished with fearsome
dexterity. Casuarinas are cut
down swiftly and the stores
slung under the poles. Jonson
is frantically investigating the
innards of a satchel and a
case. His search slows down
and he stares steadfastly at the
farthest available horizon.
“I forgot the rum,” he
announces in a hoarse
diminuendo whisper.
The lounging pilots laugh
outright at the look on Stevens’s
face. The look lasts a long
time.
Ames and Chubby watch
the patrol move off along the
strip like a 600 ft. snake, with
the white men in the lead. It
looks sluggish and forlorn. It
looks pathetically vulnerable,
despite the trickle of police-
boys with rifles.
“You’d swear a broadside of
arrows from the grass’d lay
’em low before they could
scratch ’emselves,” Chubby
comments.
“Telling me!” says Ames.
They climb into the planes
and blast off down the strip,
turning back over the patrol
for a farewell wing-waggle.
Ames pulls aside, curling with
the contours of the mountain,
turning tight around the mis-
sion. There’s a flutter of some-
thing feminine as Jeannie joins
Doc. Jimmy waving back.
Ames rudders down a bit and
can see the white flash of
Jeannie’s smile and the floral
pattern on her frock. He rips
the paper label off a tin of
50 to make it shine and hurls
it down. A shadow crosses
Ames and he jerks his head
up to find he hasn’t pulled
away from Chubby.
Chubby puts the palms of
his hands together in diving
attitude, grins across at Ames
and drops groundwards. He
almost joins his racing shadow
getting a good close look at
Jeannie. He pulls up wing to
wing and treats Ames to a
droll grimace of approval and
regret.
“We sure need some more
women round here,” he tells
the radio.
“Madang to aircraft, say
again,” says the radio.
Chubby doesn’t say again.
The two planes raise their big
round snouts in a thunderous
fight for height, homeward
bound.
Sprawling in the company-
mess that night Ames is
happier with life. Cocks a
skinny shank over the arm of
his chair and hoists his rum
aloft.
“Here’s to the patrol blokes,
the kunai-crushers, God bless
their bootsoles!”
“Four months’ hike ahead
of ’em,” Chalmers of the
broken nose agrees. “Some-
thing to be said for flying, eh?
Sight Helen of Troy?”
“Sight her!” says Ames.
“Chubby damn’ near leaned
out and kissed her!”
“In front of Doc. Jimmy?”
says Chalmers, shocked.
“Right under his nose.
Street-corner bodgie stuff.
Should be ashamed. Married
man, too!”
“Shut up!” Chubby flashed
a fiery blue eye up and around
from his bookwork. “Here’s
what’s for tomorrow —-—”
“And here’s what’s for
sometime this week,” Ames
cuts in. “A load of Christmas
stuff’s due here for Doc.
Jimmy. I’m to fly it over.
Stay for lunch.”
“Just like that, eh? Who
runs this bloody company ?”
“You do.”
“Then why can’t I be Daddy
Christmas?”
“Jeannie likes me for the
part. Special request. She
trusts me. You barge in bug-
eyed, she’d take to the hills.
Lost forever. Be human! I
saw her first.”
“Rememper, Doc. Chimmy
hass a claim! ” says a Dutch
pilot from a corner of the
room.
“Gawd,” Chalmers com-
plains to the leaping fire.
“Listen to ’em. Chubby mar-
ried and done for, Ames totally
and permanently unmarriage-
able. Both slavering——”
“By God, Chalmers, I resent
that!” Chubby comes in like
a day-old chick.
“And by God, Chubby, Doc.
Jimmy’ll sure resent you
swooping around,” says a
square-built redhead, lending a
hand. “Look where your own
wife finished up! In bed with
you!”
“By God, Kelly, I resent
that, too!”
“Jubby,” says the Dutch
pilot, “you haf become notting
but a leering pig lecher!”
“Got him! Got him to a
tee, Hans,” says Chalmers
jubilantly. “Who’s got the
rum?”
“Dammit, no man’s wife is
safe,” says someone.
“And half-caste nippers all
over the place, no doubt.”
“Shut up !”
“Can’t take fair comment.”
“And a blatherskite!”
“Listen, you bastards . . /’
“Remember what he said
when the lady asked him about
his D.F.C.?”
“He said I’ll admit I was
outnumbered !”
“Liars!” Chubby shrieked.
“A romancer.”
“A runny-nosed little nasty
child-delinquent.”
“Outnumbered, eh?” says
Chubby, light dawning like an
atom-flash. “Cop this!”
The cane chair catches Kelly
in the chest. The air is full
of cane chairs. Also maga-
zines and cushions. Chubby
shoots from the melee and
stops the put-put engine out-
side and the lights go out. He
returns with a fire-extinguisher
and sprays the battlefield. The
tumult dies. All hands head
for bed.
“You there, Ames?” says
Chubby in the outer darkness
He wears an unseen, saving
grin.
“Sure thing,” says Ames.
“You’ve got the job. But
don’t you get too human!”
“Sure thing,” says Ames.
Tt’s a bad day, soft-bellied
clouds trailing tendrils
through the kunai. Ames gets
a last-minute sight of the
Ngapoa strip and swishes in.
Skitter of wheels through the
wet grass and solid rumble of
the ground.
As the big prop, slows and
stops Ames sits for a moment
getting attuned to the sudden
silence. Dark, feathered shapes
form in the greyness, sharpen-
ing as they come in under the
wing. Ames monkey-swings
down to the wet, green grass.
It’s a misty world of grey and
green.
“Hi, Ames,” says Doc.
Jimmy cheerfully. “You sure
enough got ass, man. Ain’t
room between cloud and
ground for a snake to crawl.”
“My luck’s working,” says
Ames. “Just beat it. Every-
thing good with you?”
“You can say that again!
And this looks as good a time
as any for you to come and
see.”
“Yeah. You can say that
again,” says Ames, reading the
weather.
The dark little hillmen un-
load the plane and go swiftly
through the pole - slinging
routine. The last piece of
freight startles them.
“AAEeeeeee! ”
“Goddam!” bursts from
Doc. Jimmy. “And holly!”
“It's a spare,” says Ames,


ipu.cant see
the bank
in this picture...
hut its there /
$!
,<>
r<
n
s
Vi
w
1
A
ffl
~r
i
5P
m
W
ytf/r
of
(«Tt4
Down through the years this bank has helped
the “Man-on-the-land.”
To-day, its modern facilities and services,
including C.B.C. Savings Bank, are carrying on
this tradition.
Ask your nearest branch of this bank to
explain how these facilities and services can
help you.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANYI
standing the motorbike on its
wheels. “We’ve got a couple
of others for round about.
Good little bikes. Get you
anywhere round these kanaka-
tracks in good weather.
Chubby’s idea to dump it on
you.”
“My!” says Doc. Jimmy.
“And a passenger - seat!
Jeannie’ll be fit to tie! You
tell Chubby thanks!”
Ames straddles the bike and
honks the horn.
“Well, there goes the staff!”
Doc. Jimmy exclaims.
“You’d better do a bit of
Oklahoma hog-calling and get
’em back,” says Ames.
“Curiosity’ll sure bring ’em.
But I wouldn’t do that again!”
The audience sneaks back
from the surrounding cloud.
Ames kicks the bike to life
and does a tight, roaring circle
round the plane.
“Look, man,” says Doc.
Jimmy plaintively. He rubs
his snubnose like a schoolboy.
“Look around you!”
“Gawdstruth, they’ve gone
again! ”
“They just ain’t seen wheels
with built-in power before.
These here fellers are stone-age
true! ”
“Wheels or no wheels they’ll
have to get used to it.”
“Sure, sure. Coupla years
they’ll be hitching rides.”
“Well, there’s gas, and oil by
the strip when you need it.
They’ll bring the gear. Hop on.”
“There’s a creek ahead,”
says Doc. Jimmy a few miles
later. “Shallow but mighty
fast. Stony bottom.”
“We’re wet now,” Ames
yells back, pushing a strand
of dank, bleached hair from
his eyes.
The angry spluttering of
the outraged motorbike brings
Jeannie out like a freed bird.
“My! You crazy men been
swimming?” she cries. “What
is that ?” '
“From the fliers, honey.
Someting bilong Christmas.”
They talk against a , back-
ground of solid sound.
“What’s the noise?” Ames
asks, staring into the mist.
“The noise? Why, that’s
the waterfall. Drops a clear
half-mile. Gives that stream
its punch.”
“It doesn’t look this loud
from the air.”
“I guess nothing does.
Honey, we’re all wet. How’s
about some dry things? I’ll
kick the fire up.”
They’re inside and Ames is
looking around while Doc.
Jimmy stokes the fire. Cur-
tains now, inside the round
grass house. Window-panes
of bleached-out X-ray plates.
Rattan easy-chairs Jeannie
comes with dry clothes.
“Where are the boys, Doc.,
honey?” she asks.
“If they did like the boys
back at the strip they’ll be
halfway up the mountain.”
“The motorbike?”
“Sure. Don’t worry. Man,
let’s you and me get changed.
Then I’ll fix us a drink.”
“Guy sent me this ’bout half
a year ago,” Doc. Jimmy says
about the untouched bottle of
Scotch. “Seeing it’s sure
enough close to Christmas . . .**
He puts down two glasses and
pushes the bottle near Ames.
“Jeannie?” says Ames.
“I don’t think Jeannie ever
drinks this. Guess she figures
it’s no good.”
“Christmas, Jeannie,” Ames
says to her. “What about it?”
“I guess I will,” says Jeannie
with only split-second hesita-
tion. Ames lifts his eyebrows
and Doc. Jimmy raises his.
Goes for a third glass.
Whew! Ames thinks, watch-
ing Jeannie. Made for the
Islands. A tropic flower.
Would also stop your breath
at the South .Pole.
“There you are, honey,”
says Doc. Jimmy. “And I’d
sure put some water in it.”
They here’s-how the drinks.
Doc. Jimmy produces smokes
and insists. “Ive smoked so
many of yours it’s getting so
I can’t look you in the eye.”
“Kai, masta, missus,” softly
from a doorway halfway
through the second drink.
“Staff’s back,” says Doc.
(Continued on page 44)


Owe Industry Reduces Its Costs
COAL FIGHTS BACK
It is to the credit of the N. S. Wales
coal-industry, more often maligned
than complimented, that in the past
seven or eight years, when costs in
all other industries have been rising, it
has been able to reduce its costs, with the
result that coal is now selling several
shillings a ton cheaper than in 1952.
In June, 1952, the average price of N. S.
Wales coal f.o.r. at colliery was 635. 2d.
a ton. A table in the 12th Annual Report
of the Joint Coal Board shows that by
June, 1959, progressive reductions had
brought this down to 555. 6d. The signi-
ficance of this fall in price will be all the
more realised when it is remembered that
between 1952 and 1959 the basic wage
rose from £ll 3s. to £l4 3s. and the cost-
of-living index from 2337 to 3019.
The chief reason for the change is the
increased efficiency of the industry,
brought about by progressive mechani-
sation. In 1952 only 52 per cent, of
N.S.W. coal was mechanically produced.
At the end of June, 1959, the proportion
was 90 per cent. Increased mechanisation
was reflected in improvement in output,
which at the earlier date was three tons
per manshift and had risen to 4.89 tons
by the end of the period.
Mechanisation was, of course, a costly
process. In the six years to June, 1959,
mechanical coalcutters, transporters and
other underground equipment cost £17.1
million. Buildings, washing-plants,
screens, transport and other surface
capital-expenditure brought the total for
the period to £32.3 million.
Factors Affecting the Change
npo a large extent it is true that rehabili-
-®- tation was imposed on the industry
as a result of Government policy. But
actually it goes deeper than that.
The industry was forced to reorganise
itself along lines of efficient production
because there was no other way of meet-
ing the competition, first from brown-
coal in Victoria, and then from oil-fuel
everywhere. The changeover was delayed
for many years by the unpalatable but
indisputable truth that mechanisation
would mean that fewer men would be
required in the mines. The natural
reluctance of the coalminers to recognise
this necessity was used to the full by their
Communist leaders, whose baleful influ-
ence had been largely responsible for the
industry pricing itself out of some of its
best markets and for bringing it to the
desperate straits it found itself in at the
beginning of the 1950’5.
To the Joint Coal Board must go much
of the credit for the fact that the change
has been effected relatively smoothly and
without large - scale distress and
unemployment.
In 1952 there were 20,191 men
employed on the N.S.W. coalfields. At
the end of last June there were only
13,380. Yet at that date there were
only 396 mineworkers registered as
unemployed, although the actual reduc-
tion in the number of men employed
had been 2048 for the year and 6811 for
the whole period. This, says the annual
report, “suggests that the problem of re-
employment is under control and is being
well handled.”
Output Increasing
"Production of coal in the year 1958-59
set a new record —15,762,000 tons.
Output fell in the Cessnock-Northwest
area, where several uneconomic mines
were closed during the year, but increased
slightly in all other areas. The increase
was most marked in the Newcastle area,
where the output per manshift also rose
remarkably (from 4.62 tons to 5.60 tons).
In its report the board remarks that
overproduction of coal is a world-wide
problem, but that despite the record
output the N.S.W. industry had been
able to close the year with colliery stocks
at the same level as when the year began.
This had been the consequence, partly
of restraint by efficient mines which could
have produced more coal for stockpiling,
and partly by reduction in output or
closure of less efficient collieries. The
board warns that in the immediate future
there will be a tendency for supply to
exceed demand because the “productive
efficiency of the industry will continue
to increase at a greater rate than will
the demand for coal.”
A necessary result of this is that the
pattern that has been apparent in the last
decade, of uneconomic mines going out
of production and of costs being further
reduced in the mechanised pits, will be
continued in the ’sixties. The board feels
that it is probable that within 10 years,
possibly less, there will be no mines left
in production whose pit-top costs exceed
50s. a ton (in present-day values).
'T'his is a realistic acceptance of the
facts of economic life which the
industry was reluctant to admit a few
years ago. At one time the N.S.W. coal-
fields were the main source of fuel supply
for the whole of Australia and also
exported large quantities of coal overseas.
Fifty years ago overseas exports averaged
two million tons a year—in 1912 exports
to North and South America alone
totalled 1,050,000 tons. Inefficient
methods, shortsighted competition for
quick profits and incessant industrial
troubles priced the industry first out of
its overseas markets and then out of
those in other Australian States. It now
depends almost entirely on the home-
State market. Fortunately this has
expanded with the growth of industry so
that last year’s consumption in N. S.
Wales was 12,268,000 tons, which
exceeded the entire Australian annual
production of pre-war years.
The development of the black-coal and
brown-coal resources of other States is
a factor which the N.S.W. industry simply
has to accept. There can be no question
of reversing this trend. But in addition
to the markets lost on that front there is
the more recent trend towards petroleum-
products, which have invaded what the
Coal Board calls “traditional coal-
markets.”
Reviewing the impact of petroleum
products on the coal industry, the annual
report says that in some fields the two
fuels do not compete —coal doesn’t at
present enter the field of motor-spirit,
aviation-spirit or aviation-turbine fuel;
oil doesn't compete in coke-making for
steel production. The chief field of
competition is in supplying heat for
steam-raising and to a lesser degree in
the supply of gas and in fuelling
locomotives:
In 1954-55, N.S.W. supplied 14,354,000
tons of coal, or 50.1 per cent, of the total
energy market. Other black coal supplied
an additional 14.7 per cent. Competing
petroleum products supplied 17.8 per cent,
of requirements. In 1958-59 N.S.W.
supplied 14,168,000 tons or 43.9 per cent,
of the market, while other black coal
supplied an additional 12.6 per cent.
Competing petroleum products supplied
22.9 per cent, of requirements. If in
1958-59 N.S.W. had maintained the 50.1
per cent, share of the market held in
1954-55, a further two-million tons of
N.S.W. coal would have been used. In
the same period, expanded sales of com-
peting petroleum products supplanted
1,655,000 tons of black coal.
Consumption of coal by Australian
railways declined by 1,206,000 tons in
the seven years between 1951-52 and
1958-59. Almost all this decline was
accounted for by the switch to diesel-
locomotives. This trend is expected to
continue as also is the use of refinery-
gas.
The Coal Board’s main criticism of
competition from oil-refinery products is
directed against the use of “the so-called
black oils.” It claims that in terms of
cost per million British thermal units coal
costs less than half as much as furnace-
oil, if the list-prices of petroleum
products are accepted. It suspects that
much of the furnace-oil is sold far below
list-price (too far below to be accounted
for by economies of bulk-purchase), and
that the price-cuts are balanced by higher
prices for other petroleum products.
It asks whether it is right, from a
national viewpoint, that the benefits thus
conferred on particular customers should
be allowed to outweigh the impediments
placed on the nationally important coal-
industry. The point seems worth
examining.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Tulloch's Triumph
For many years to come
racegoers who were at Fleming-
ton last Saturday—and there
were, appropriately, plenty of
them —will tell the story of
how they saw Tulloch make
his comeback. It was one of
the great romances of the Turf
to see this wonderful horse —
perhaps the best Australia has
known —not only win at his
first start after two years of
sickness but show that the
courage of his fighting heart
and his will-to-win had not
been sapped by his long course
of treatment.
Tulloch made his comeback
in the 10-furlongs Queen's
Plate. Lord attempted to win
it all the way, Neville Sellwood
keeping the champion on
Lord’s girth until the field
straightened-up for the run
home. At the two-furlongs it
was Lord perhaps half-a-length
in front of Tulloch, the rest
already no chance. At the fur-
long Tulloch got his head in
front for the first time. There-
after it was stride for stride,
with Sellwood forced to resort
to the whip. Tulloch could
not have had a sterner test, but
he gave of his best at every
stride —and his nose showed in
front on the line.
Lord was the public’s elect,
but betting considerations were
forgotten in the most heart-
warming demonstration any
horse has received at Fleming-
ton since Carbine won the
Melbourne Cup in 1890. One
likes to think that Tulloch
realised that the wild applause
was for him. This great horse
has now raced 30 times, won
22 of his races, and has never
been out of a place. His stake-
earnings, now £67,548, would
certainly exceed £lOO,OOO had
he not been stricken with such
a serious illness.
Tommy Smith was almost
too excited to' speak after the
race —as well he might have
been! Only he knows the full
story of those two years of
anxiety, wondering if all the
care and attention would ever
be rewarded. E. A. Haley,
Tulloch’s owner, had waited
for this day, but he had the
atrocious luck to be confined to
his bed with influenza.
What now for Tulloch? The
weight-for-age races at the-'
AJ.C. autumn meeting, prob-
ably ; and then, it is greatly
to be hoped, a successful spring
campaign, culminating in vic-
tory in the Centenary Mel-
bourne Cup. All the annals of
the great race would not con-
tain a more fitting story than
that.
It was said here last week
of the Newmarket that you
could select half-a-dozen
horses and easily miss the
winner. As it turned out, of
the 12 runners, only one was
at a longer price than the 20-
to-1 winner Correct. There
was plenty of money for each
of the runners, but a king’s
ransom was put on Anonyme
to send him out a 5-to-2
favorite. The huge son of
Landau seemed to have the
race in his keeping, too, when
he sustained a run from last
at the “three” to be in front
with 20yds. to go. Correct,
however, finished brilliantly on
the inside to gain the verdict
by a head. The complete out-
sider, Merry Polly, was a
length further back, with Oak-
leigh Plate winner Power Duke
fourth.
* • • •
Correct had given a lead to
his win by his close second to
Gabonia in record time at
Caulfield the previous Satur-
day ; but he had not previously
shown top class. He was on
the minimum weight, 7.3, but
Lyle Harbridge declared 21b.
over. Correct is a three-year-
old gelding (all the placegetters
were three-year-olds) by Tsaoko
from the English mare Authen-
ticity, a daughter of Fairway
from Sly Abbess by Foxlaw.
Noholme is not the horse he
was last spring—he beat only
one home in the Newmarket.
It does look beyond any
doubt now that Travel Boy
was a lucky horse to win last
year’s V.R.C. Derby. He was
beaten hands-down by Nilarco
in the St. Leger, and Nilarco
seems to have established his
claim as the best three-year-
old in the land. Nilarco did
not run in the Derby, but the
form he showed in minor races
over last year’s Cup meeting
suggested that he would not
be out of place in the best
of company. This time up he
has confirmed that promise by
winning three times from four
starts in recent weeks. He
defeated Travel Boy and
Dhaulagiri so decisively at
level weights in the St. Leger
that he appeals greatly in the
Sydney Cup, for which he has
been handicapped at 7.6. He
is liable for a penalty up to
101 b. (undecided at time of
writing), but even if the handi-
capper gave him the bulk of
it Nilarco might still emulate
another Victorian three-year-
old, the good horse Carbon
Copy, by winning the rich
Sydney Cup.
This writer implied last
week that the Sydney filly
Wenona Girl was overrated,
and now has to admit as
cheerfully as possible that he
was wrong. Over the seven
furlortgs of the Sires’ Produce
Stakes the Wilkes filly proved
that she is very good indeed
by beating the colt Dalby and
Victoria’s best filly, Impulsive,
in a canter. Wenona Girl is
the first filly to win the classic
since E. A. Underwood’s
Surang was successful in
1953. In her six starts Wenona
Girl’s only defeat was suffered
at Caulfield last Saturday
week, when Impulsive beat
her over six furlongs. Impul-
sive went with her to the
“distance” on Saturday, but
thereafter the race was all the
Sydney filly’s way. Neville
Sellwood pegged the third leg
of a treble on the filly, and
it was his third Sires’ Produce
success —he had previously
won it on Knave and Travel
Boy.
Fred Astaire had reason to
dance when Stan Murphy’s
cable reached him last week-
end ; the cable told that
Astaire’s filly Far Out had
broken through for a win after
an exasperating run of six
minor placings. The movie-
star bought Far Out when he
was here to play in the film
“On The Beach,” going to
2200gns. for the daughter of
Star Kingdom and Mirrilee,
Far Out’s minor placings had
been scored in top-drawer
company, and she appreciated
the drop to maiden class in
the first division of the Hope-
ful Stakes. It was a huge
field, but she was the runner
most people wanted to back,
and she gave them no cause
for worry.
• • • •
Sir Blink has shown in
previous seasons that he needs
a lot of racing to reach his
best. In the 12-furlongs
Moomba Handicap he was
racing second-up from a spell,
and he did well to run second
to the useful handicapper
Gaybao, particularly as, even
with his apprentice rider’s
71b. claim, he carried 9.3 The
little bloke is not up to much
weight, but at weight-for-age
in the Queen Elizabeth Stakes
next Saturday he should go
well.
* * *
Sydney Form
With the Doncaster and
Sydney Cup looming up,
special interest centred on last
Saturday’s Flying and middle-
distance main Handicap at
Rosehill. Flying winner In
Love gave fair promise for the
big mile, and, though he didn’t
beat such a good field, AJ.C.
St. Leger winner Bardshah won
the Rosehill Handicap without
being extended. Owner Morrie
Point intends to start Bardshah
a couple more times before
tackling the two-miler, with
the AJ.C. Centenary Invita-
tion Stakes on April 9 his
toughest pre-Cup task. Super-
tax, second-favorite to In Love


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS OSWALD WARNER
late of 56 Lochlan Street Windale in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that BERYL EVA WARNER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 553
of 1960 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking for the exer-
cise of the Court’s discretion in her
favour under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1958 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Macquarie
Street Sydney by the Twenty-fifth day
of May 1960 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from L. B.
CLAYTON, Solicitor, of 109 a Bathurst
Street, Sydney.—G. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
Missing Friend
TO ISABELLA ALLISTON formerly of
12 Kings Cross Road Sydney in the
State of New South Wales but now of
parts unknown Married Woman. —TAKE
NOTICE that your husband ERIC
FREDERICK ALLISTON has instituted
proceedings against you for Divorce on
the ground of your desertion Unless you
enter an Appearance in the Office of
the Prothonotary in the Supreme Court
of Victoria at the Law Courts William
Street Melbourne on or before the nine-
teenth day of April 1900 the case may
proceed in your absence If you intend
to defend the suit you must also file an
Answer in the said Office’ on or before
the twenty-ninth day of April 1960. —
R. G. DUNLOP, of 108 Queen Street,
Melbourne, in the State of Victoria,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, ERIC
FREDERICK ALLISTON.
in the Flying, shaped only
moderately, and will have to do
a lot better at next outing to
be a Doncaster chance. Comte
De Paris, entered for both the
Doncaster and the Cup, finished
third to Bardshah over the 10
furlongs, but his display wasn’t
impressive, either. He could,
however, improve in the next
week or two.
• • • o
In Love —a big, strong four-
year-old gelding by Tauber
(imp.) from Loyal Lass —has
won 10 races, and has been
successful up to 1\ furlongs,
mostly under Welter condi-
tions. In the Rosehill Flying
he carried 9.3, on a 7.3 limit,
and drops to 8.8, on a 7st.
limit, in the Doncaster. He
has struck his best form to
date, with successive wins at
Canterbury {l\ furlongs) and
at Rosehill (7 furlongs), and
he should run the Randwick
mile right out. He’s well up
to weight. His dam, Loyal
Lass, was got by Constant Son
(imp.) from Miss Whitty, while
his sire, Tauber (imp.), won
races in England at from six
to 11 furlongs and has sired,
among many others, Brisbane
stayer Rin Tin and Le Touquet,
winner of the Armidale Cup.
Stayer Royal Jester ran well
enough in the Rosehill Flying
to be marked-down for an
early success. He has 9.1 in
the Sydney Cup. Last spring
he won the Williamstown Cup
at Caulfield with 8.13, and the
Rosehill outing was his first run
since then.
• •] • *•:
Dagger’s gallop in training
at Rosebery two days before
the Rosehill meeting should
have justified support for the
First Parramatta Stakes, but
after a few modest bets were
set at 6 to 1 and less he drifted
out rapidly to start at 20 to 1.
Possibly the stable had a good
win for a small outlay—-
certainly Bill Crockett, trainer
“I miss the time when you used to Waste your Saturday
afternoons at the pub”
and part-owner of Dagger with
his brother, K. F. Crockett —
gave the big sprinter an excel-
lent chance, despite the extreme
outside barrier position. Earlier
Dagger had shown plenty of
promise, but he hadn’t won for
eight months, and, in fact, had
started only once in six months.
He should now be worth keep-
ing an eye on.
Sky High continued his un-
beaten record by taking the
Rosehill Two-Year-Old Quality
Handicap, carrying topweight
of 9.5 and running the six
furlongs in 1.13 1/10 —a tenth
of a second outside the race
record made in March, 1947,
by topnotch speedster Temer-
aire. The younger brother of
Skyline should take a lot of
beating in the S.T.C.’s £lO,OOO
Golden Slipper Stakes, to be
run over six furlongs on
Saturday week at Rosehill. In
it he will carry the 8.7 allotted
to colts and geldings; fillies
will carry Bst. Royal Emblem
was again second, for the third
time in four starts, while Flash
Time, in third place, also main-
tained his consistency, follow-
ing his Warwick Farm win as
a maiden. There should be
better things ahead for this
well-developed and handsome
Newtown Wonder colt.
• • • •
Having won the opening
Rosehill race with Sky High,
Jack Green scratched Burr
Dancer from the second event,
the First Parramatta Stakes,
reserving the three-year-old
for the Welter, in which he
was down on the limit weight,
as against the 9st. he’d have
had to carry in the restricted
company, in which, too, he’d
have been conceding Dagger
51b., and Dagger won in fast
time. In his Welter win Burr
Dancer also went fast; his
1.3 ly wasn’t far outside the
race record. Favorite High-
rabou beat only a couple
home, and may have had
enough racing for the time
being.
* * *
“P.0.M.C.”: A.J.C. pots called
V.A.T.C. kettles black when
censured for omitting the direct
broadcast at Warwick Farm of the
Todman-Lord clash in the Futurity
Stakes run at Caulfield; arguing
that the V.A.T.C. staged the
Futurity too close in time to the
local Novice Flandicap to permit
the description of both races over
the course amplifiers! Surely the
onus was reasonably on the AJ.C.
to time the start of the minor race
to fit that of the major (allowing
for possible delays); not the other
way round? In fact, it’s amazing
that, in these days of widespread
radio-networks, there seems to be
no concrete collaboration between
leading race-clubs to prevent the
running of important races in
neighboring States clashing with
those at home, or with lesser races
—especially when facilities for
inter-State betting are so well
provided.
* * *
Trots
Great Cheer’s good run was
interrupted when he went
down to Malyandry’s Pride
and Bold Face in the final of
the N.S.W. Sires’ Produce
Stakes at Harold Park last
Friday night. It was not,
however, a race on which to
base final judgment. Percy
Hall had Malyandry’s Pride
sitting pretty behind the
Sydney three-year-old and the
Victorian Alternative, who
had cut at one another right
from the start. When the
pressure was applied at the
home-turn Great Cheer was a
beaten horse, and Malyandry’s
Pride went on to win com-
fortably from the fast-finishing
Bold Face, with Great Cheer
a head further back. These
four will meet again in the
N.S.W. Derby, heats of which
commence on May 6. Beaten
but not disgraced, Great Cheer
had won 15 races from 16
starts, and the fast pace he
set enabled Malyandry’s Pride
to equal First Knight’s 1957
race record of 3min. 7|sec.
By winning the Harold Park
Handicap Rosslawn qualified
for a run in the Lord Mayor’s
Cup—a well-deserved win
after seconds in the previous
two Handicaps.
* * *
Other Sports
A note from South Africa
says that Stuart Mackenzie
is giving scullers there some
of his know-how. He’s also
carrying out a few experiments
with his sculls, to make them
stronger, but lighter. Present
plans are to stay in Africa
until May, compete in the
South African championships,
then go to Ostend (June), the
French championships in Paris,
then Marlowe, and Henley,
and finally the Olympic Games
—and his first Olympic medal
* * *
“Recorder”: Crackpot or
genius? They used to ask
that when Sydney physiologist
Forbes Carlile introduced un-
orthodox methods into train-
ing of swimmers, cyclists,
athletes, oarsmen, surfers.
Carlile’s methods were unusual,
but he knew what he was
doing, and his fame took him
to England, Europe, the East
and other parts overseas. Now,
before going to Rome as
scientific adviser to the Aus-
tralian swimming-team, he’s
taking his famous “hearto-
meter” to Townsville, where
the team will train. There he’ll
heart-test every swimmer, tell
them to a fraction their swim-
ming-capacity! Not long back
Carlile gave little Albert
Thomas some tests on the
machine. Thomas had just
run a mile in 3.58.9 —first sub-
four-minute mile in Sydney—
and he was off-color after the
race. As he was to attack his
own two-mile world-record a


AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
Randwick
Centenaiy
AUTUMN MEETING
1960
SATURDAY - - 9th APRIL
WEDNESDAY - - 13th APRIL
SATURDAY - - 16th APRIL
MONDAY - - - 1 8th APRIL
few days later he went to Car-
lile’s machine. The test
showed he was far from
recovered, and Carlile told him
not to run. Thomas did, failed
by 31sec. to break his
record, and was beaten in a
race in Melbourne a few days
later. You won’t get Thomas
running “mad” miles again.
“Sportite”: Outcome of a
meeting of the Medical
Research Council in London
to inquire into climatic condi-
tions and other things likely
to affect health at the Rome
Olympics, a very interesting
report is now available in
Australia. Some of its tips
might help others besides the
athletes for whose guidance it
was prepared. A few of them:
Drink bottled water only.
Use plenty of salt (not salt
pills) on food. Avoid ice-
cream, salads, unpeeled fruits
and fruit-drinks except from
firms under Government
inspection. Don’t sun-bathe
in Rome, and remain indoors
between noon and 3 p.m. The
report adds that the most suit-
able time for teams to arrive
in Rome would be from three
to seven days before the
Games open.
* *
“Sportite”: While most of
the rapidly increasing number
of sporting-grounds and other
new sport-facilities in Can-
berra have been provided from
public funds, some sport-bodies
there are doing their own share.
Rugby Unionites, for instance,
have applied for permission to
build a club at the corner of
Lawson Crescent and Akuna
Street, almost opposite the
Olympic Pool, and a committee
is busy raising some of the
needed £15,000. One member
recently looked into a couple
of Sydney sport-clubs, saw their
magnificence, and went away
yearning for a one-armed
bandit.
* * &
“Bow”: Victorian oarsman
Neville Howell, rowing with
the King’s Cup crew in the
national championship in
Tassie, figures in his ninth
King’s Cup. He had wins in
1952, ’53, ’54, ’56 and ’57 and
seconds in 1951, ’55 and ’59 —
a record that solidly supports
his rating as one of Australia’s
best oarsmen.
* * *
“Mitron”: Nominate Aus-
tralian Soccer rep. Brian
(“Chookie”) Vogler for the
Enthusiasm, Versatility and
Fitness Stakes. On a Friday
night he played for Hellenic
(Brisbane) in the Ampol Soccer
semi-final (scored two goals);
next day he scored 76 not-out
for his “A”-grade Ipswich
cricket-team; day after that
he stripped for Hellenic in a
90-minute trial-game.
* * *
“Sam”: Breeziest innings
I’ve seen in Sydney club cricket
this season was that of Western
Suburbs tailender B e r n i e
Barnsley against Mosman. Of
his 30 runs 28 came from six
successive strokes —two sixers
and four fours.
* *
“Dud”: The recent row in
Newtown (Sydney) Rugby
League club, with the players
threatening to strike and
Canterbury-Bankstown offer-
ing to lend Newtown a few
players so a trial between the
two clubs could be played,
recalled something Stan Wal-
lace (now of Iluka, on the
N.S.W. Clarence River) once
told me. Stan played with
Western Suburbs Rugby Union
club when most of the team
went over to the League in
1908. Wests were drawn to
play a League game against
South Sydney in those early
days, but informed Souths
they’d have to forfeit because
they couldn’t field a full team.
This was not good for the new
code, so Souths “lent” Wests
a couple of men. The two
“lent” men became stars of
the first Kangaroos —Billy
Cann and Arthur Hennessey.


UNCABLED
ADDITION S
THE MEETING BEYOND
r T~'His month’s London “En-
counter” features a lengthy
interview, originally tape-re-
corded in Switzerland at a
recent conference of the Con-
gress for Cultural Freedom,
between Melvin J. Lasky and
George F. Kennan, the U.S.
historian and former diplomat;
the chief topic being the future
of relations between Russia
and the West.
Kennan’s belief, broadly
speaking, is that Russia is be-
coming less totalitarian both
in internal affairs and relations
with its satellites. “In the
main, the goals and trends of
Russian Communism,” he said,
“lie along the same path as
Western liberal-industrialism.”
Russia, in fact, is starting L o
move “beyond Communism,”
and the West—or at any rate
the U.S.—is realising that it
will eventually have to go
“beyond capitalism” to an in-
creasingly authoritarian form
of government. In the West,
Kennan says, “the question is
not whether public policy is to
shape the lives of individuals.
The question is whether the
State is to acknowledge the
responsibility for that shaping
of the individual life which is
already occurring by the pro-
cesses which it tolerates or
directs.”
In this “beyond” territory u
meeting of the two hostile
worlds is apparently possible.
To tune-in on the interview
for a moment:
Kennan: What divides the
two worlds, in my thinking, is
not a difference in aim. What
divides them is fear, timidity,
the unsolved problem of
Western Europe and the un-
happy dynamics of a weapons-
race so absorbing that both
sides tend to forget the issue
of its origin.
Lasky: But even if we con-
cede your pattern of evolution,
even if we reject an “absolutely
negative” approach to Soviet
society, there still remains a
profound gap between the two
worlds on such basic matters
as the one-party regime, the
suppression of criticism and the
systematic cultivation of false-
hood. Aren’t these all features
of Soviet power that contrast
basically with what we have in
the West?
Kennan: The differences are
undeniable, but they are rela-
tive and not absolute. The
deliberate cultivation of false-
hood, as we were saying earlier
on the subject of Russian his-
toriography, seems to me to be
undergoing, as a Governmental
policy, a process of severe
erosion. I cannot imagine that
it can be long continued in the
manner of the past. As for the
one-party system: it must be
contrasted, unfortunately, with
precisely that segment in the
political life of the West which
is itself today most subject to
question, most doubtful in
point of adequacy to the needs
of the time. I mean the system
THE FOUR-MINUTE MILE.
(Cartoonist Vicky’s comment, in London “New Statesman,” on the news that an
“early-warning” radar-station giving four-minutes’ notice in the event of a nuclear
attack is to be built in England at American expense.)
of political parties and Parlia-
mentary institutions. In the
doctrinal sense we in America
also have in certain respects a
one-party system. For aren’t
the two parties ideologically in-
distinguishable? Don't 4 their
pronouncements form one m-
tegral body of banality and
platitude? And whoever does
not care to work within their
common framework, isn’t he
also condemned, like the non-
party person in Russia, to
political passivity—to an in-
ternal emigration?
Lasky: I am afraid you will
be widely misunderstood on
this point, especially if you
seem to be denying the validity
of relative distinctions.
Kennan: I would be the last
to want to deny them. I find
our system, for all its short-
comings, vastly preferable to
that which confronts it on the
Communist side—if only be-
cause it interposes no political
barrier to the freedom of the
mind. But from the standpoint
of the underdeveloped peoples,
seeking inspiration and example
—and here I think you seemed
to be agreeing with me when
you raised the question of the
next stage in the struggle of
ideas and loyalties—this rela-
tivity is significant. It spares
the necessity of hard-and-fast
choices. It seems to me over-
whelmingly likely that there
are going to be in the future
as many forms of government
in this world as there are
genuine national entities. No
single pattern—as is already
evident in the Communist orbit
-—need be, or will be, univers-
ally imposed, and this need not
worry us. Admittedly, the per-
sonality of the full-blown totali-
tarian S,tate is an international
problem, in the long-run in-
tolerable to the security of
neighboring States and to the
interests of world peace. But
for the endless varieties and
gradations of normal authori-
tarianism we in the West can
afford to manifest a relaxed and
even sympathetic tolerance.
Commenting editorially on
the interview, Manchester
“Guardian” notes that “there
is sound sense in much of what
Mr. Kennan says”:
“Prophecies of irreconcilable
conflict between East and West
are beginning to look unneces-
sary as well as suicidal. Soviet
society is becoming more liberal
as it becomes more prosperous
and more contented. The com-
missars, to use a phrase of Mr.
Arthur Koestler’s, have ‘gone
to Capua.’ In the long-run, it
may even be true —as Mr.
Kennan suggests, at least by
implication—that Soviet society
and American society will grow
alike: they are both supported
by the same kind of industrial
and technological base. But
this, surely, will only be in the
ver Y long-run.
“Prophets are always in
danger of believing that their
prophecies will come true
sooner than they do. This
seems to be what has happened
to Mr - Kennan. His picture of
* be future may fit the year
2000; but one cannot help fear-
in § that it would be dangerous
to act on it in the 1960 s.
“The leaders of the Soviet
Union are still dedicated and
ruthless men, even if their
followers are not. And with
all the deficiencies of the
American party-system, it does
at least offer an opportunity to
two such diverse men as Vice-
President Nixon and Senator
Hubert Humphrey to campaign
for the Presidency, not to speak
of the wide range of candidates
between. There has been no
sign that Marshal Zhukov or
Mr. Malenkov has been
allowed to contest any
primaries.
“The real danger in Mr.
Kennan’s argument is that the
apparent support it gives to the
case for coexistence is in the
end damaging.
“Peaceful relations with the
Soviet Union are necessary,
because without them the world
may destroy itself, not because
the Soviet Union is not really
a totalitarian, repressive society.
We can and should oppose
Communism, though we should
not fight it militarily unless we
have to. There is no need for
the West to understand co-
existence in a passive sense —
any more than Mr. Khrushchev
does. Western society is worth
defending, and its ideals are
worth spreading.
“In the end, the most com-
pelling reason is that it can


FculJi mi Uie
\
mk
• Perhaps the surest sign that our hopes for the
1960’s will come to rich fulfilment is the official
preparation of a ten-year “master plan” on national
highways and roads.
It provides for the spending of between nine
hundred and a thousand million pounds on
highways and subsidiary roads through Australia
in the years to 1970. A Ministerial estimate from
Canberra says that more than £750-million of
Federal, State and local government finance will
have been spent on roads by the end of 1965.
The admirable thing about this plan is that it
shows Federalism working at its practical best. It
is the product of Commonwealth and State
Ministers in the Australian Transport Advisory
Council, working in collaboration with the National
Association of State Road Authorities.
Bodies of motorists and road users generally
have had their part in pressing for its preparation.
To the credit of all, we have arrived at a
point where the country’s present road system has
been surveyed, future needs have been measured,
priorities and probable costs in the various States
have been listed and details of a co-ordinated plan
are being distributed.
This forward programme marks the reaching
of a long-awaited stage in “national thinking”
on roads.
Finance is, and will be, a conditioner to its
fulfilment. Nine hundred million pounds spread
over ten years will call for an upward revision of
the allocations all Governments and local authorities
will need to make on roads. But it is fractional to
the productive wealth the expanded roads will be
helping to raise for us.
And when the ten years are past, and assuming
every penny of this money is fruitfully spent, the
need will be for still more roads, still more
finance, to carry on the endless work of
Australia’s development.
So, having come to this wisdom, it is supremely
important that we should enter now on the full
scale of the planning and see that the roads
are built.
produce critics like Mr. Ken-
nan —and allow them to read
and write what they like.”
Those German Bases
Although the shouts of pro-
test over West Germany’s
negotiations for military bases
in Spain proved to be too
hasty —West Germany quickly
explaining that the bases were
not to be combat installations
and therefore did not contra-
vene its Nato obligations —the
move brought forth much
editorial comment on the mili-
tary and political structure of
Nato:
“New York Times”: “The
purely military mind may see
valid reasons for such a move,
especially 1 in view of Nato’s
lack of integration in this field.
But from a political stand-
point, and even from the stand-
point of national and military
morale, it is certainly less than
wise. It suggests that the Ger-
man Government has doubt
about Nato’s ability to defend
West Germany and must
therefore establish bases to the
rear, in territory where the
United States has established
forward bases. A Germany
which must still work hard at
working its way back cannot
ignore the imponderables
involved in such a plan.”
* * *
Manchester “G u ar d i a n”:
“This is the kind of proposal
which delights the Federal
Republic’s enemies and dis-
mays its friends. For months
past all the instruments of
Communist propaganda have
spread the notion, wholly un-
justified, that militarism had
resumed its rule in Western
Germany and was reviving its
links with Fascism. The swas-
tika outbreak fitted quite
uncannily into this picture.
And when it is scarcely over,
West German negotiators
decide to go ahead with their
projects in Spain, regardless
of allied reactions. If the
lesson has not been lost the
Federal Republic in its own
interest will tackle its defence
problems as part of its Nato
responsibility.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “Since
the national components of
Nato do not share a supply-
system there is a case for the
Bundeswehr making some
logistic arrangements of its
own in places less exposed
than those it already has on
West German territory. The
advantages of sites not only
in Spain but also in France,
Belgium, Holland, Sardinia,
Portugal and even Britain
have been under consideration
at the Bonn Ministry of
Defence. A number of sound-
ings have been made, and Nato
has been kept informed. Not
all the allies, and not all the
Germans, are convinced that it
is necessary to go to Spain.
The Condor Legion and the
Blue Division are sufficiently
alive in most people’s memory
to cast suspicion on any move
by Germany to do an independ-
ent military deal with the
Franco regime. [The Condor
Legion were German troops
in the Spanish civil war ; the
Blue Division, Spanish troops
who later fought with Ger-
many against Russia.]”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “The
episode illustrates not only a
failure of diplomatic and
political understanding in
Nato but also the failure to
co-operate in carrying out
concerted military plans. The
responsibility for the latter
does not rest entirely or even
mainly on German shoulders.
The more military integration
has been talked about, the less
it has looked like becoming a
reality. Yet for economic as
well as military reasons it is
essential. The essential pur-
pose of Nato is to assure the
joint defence of its members.
But some, if not all, the mem-
bers have another aim also in
view : —to their own
individual all-round defence.
To a large extent, these aims
are incompatible. National
defence in traditional terms is
the main economic and military
barrier to integration. One
of the casualties has been the
strength of ground-forces in
Western Europe, which is now
agreed to be as necessary since
the development of ‘tactical’
nuclear weapons as before.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“The Germans argue that they
need bases in Spain because so
much space in Germany is
taken up by the British and
the Americans. There is a
simple way in which we can
help the Germans in this
difficulty. Take the British
soldiers out of Germany. And
do it quickly.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Paris, London and Washing-
ton have each in its turn set
Bonn some bad examples of
acting first and telling allies
afterwards. In Algeria, in
Cyprus, fn Egypt, in Moscow
important and politically
embarrassing moves have been
made without taking Nato’s
advice. President de Gaulle,


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
y Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Branches in nil States Agencies in alt Country Centres
who treats Western Germany
as an equal partner, has fre-
quently snapped his fingers
publicly at General Norstad’s
authority. It would therefore
be a pity if Nato members
whose own consciences are not
clear read moral lectures to
Bonn.”
Khrushchev's Tour
/Commenting on Premier
Khrushchev’s Asian tour,
the “New York Times” notes
that “despite polite official
communiques it is evident
that as a new effort to woo
the Asian masses the trip has
fallen short of his expectations
and failed to offset the impact
of President Eisenhower’s
Asian visit.
“In this respect it confirms
what the President’s visit had
so dramatically revealed —
namely, that Asia is awakening
to the menace of Communism
and that its political climate is
changing accordingly.
“Except for the enthusiasm
of some already persuaded to
Communism, Mr. Khrush-
chev’s popular receptions have
ranged from lukewarm to
merely cordial. Indeed, the
contrast not only with the
President’s visit but with his
own visit to India four years
ago was so sharp that his
disappointment baited him
into several blunders.
“That is especially true of
his openly displayed contempt
for the national art, culture
and way of life of his hosts,
an attitude which, in Djakarta,
trapped him into the insult of
rejecting a proffered gift. It
is also true of his constant
boasts about Soviet rocket
achievements, which could
only impress his hosts with
their own backwardness in this
field.
“It is equally true of his
obsession with overtaking the
United States, which is not
only an admission of continued
American leadership but also
smacks of the tactics of the
salesman trying to sell shoddy
goods by running-down the
competition.
“It is no less true of his
attempts to lecture his hosts
on their lack of ‘bitterness’
toward a departed Western
colonialism, at a moment when
the new Communist colonial-
ism is knocking at their doors,
or of his effort to picture the
Communist dictatorship as a
democracy.
“Finally/it is certainly true
of his crass materialism and
open worship of the machine
as the symbols of a Communist
society which denies the
London “News Chronicle.”
SLIPPING THE COLLAR.
spiritual values that are especi-
ally precious to Asia and its
people.”
China's Targets
■pROM London “Economist:
A “The Chinese Communists
lowered their economic targets
for 1959 in mid-August after
an agonising reappraisal by the
party’s central committee ; [in
January] the regime was able
to celebrate the attainment of
these norms, usually with a
good deal to spare.
“It may be some time before
the outside world is fully per-
suaded that Chairman Mao's
statistics are no longer in the
state that Mr. Khrushchev has
said Mr. Malenkov’s once
were. All the same, Peking is
claiming an impressive rate of
growth.
“The figure for steel output,
from which production by
what are called ‘simple, local
methods’ is now said to be
excluded, has reached 13.35-
million tons, an increase of 67
per cent, over 1958. Pig-iron
(again excluding the products
of the rural blast-furnaces) is
said to have risen by 115 per
cent, to 20.5-million tons, and
coal by 29 per cent, to 347.8-
million tons. This means that
China has already exceeded the
targets set by the second five-
year plan for 1962.
“The Peking ‘People's Daily’
has gone out of its way to
bestow praise on the com-
munes for their part in raising
farm production in a year of
serious floods (which affected
30 per cent, of the sowing-
acreage). The total agricultural
output value went up by 16
per cent., but grain output rose
by only half that amount.
“After their ' reorganisation
and consolidation, the com-
munes are now judged to be
‘on the road towards healthy
development.’ They are con-
firmed as the ideal means of
bringing about the future tran-
sition from Socialism to Com-
munism.
“With a pointed glance else-
where, the ‘People’s Daily’ has
felt able to predict that the
‘great future’ of the communes
‘will be acknowledged by an
even greater number of people.’
The massive scale of the prob-
lems entailed in China’s in-
dustrial advance is emphasised
by the official calculation that
the number of factory- and
office-workers has gone up by
nearly 20 million in the past
two years.
“The regime is now com-
mitted to ‘an even better and
all-round continuous forward
leap’ this year. Army man-
power is being released to help
the agricultural drive, but the
spring sowing, particularly in
the north, has already been
hampered by drought. While
some notes of last August’s
caution are still being sounded,
the emphasis is on rapid ad-
vance, for which the economic
and political experience of the
past two years is held to be an
incalculable asset. Chairman
Mao still seems to be setting
a brisk pace.”
Dragnet Digest
C. L. Sulzberger, in “New
York Times”: “Regardless of
its outcome, the current poli-
tical crisis in Rome reminds us
of two things: the intrinsic
unsteadiness of Italy’s multi-
party system ; and how slight
a variation in Parliamentary
voting could change Italian
foreign policy.
“The sad thing is that multi-
party democracy rarely works
unless one party is in itself
strong enough to govern. If it
has to rely on others for sup-
port, the result is wavering and
uncertainty. This is especially
true when, as in Italy, a mas-
sive Communist apparatus*
remains intact and menacing.”
* * A
London “Economist”:
“According to Mr. Eisenhower
the main purposes of his trip
[around Latin America] were


■.
mu
THE NEW HOLDEN
Thrill to all its exciting new styling . . . enjoy all its impressive
new mechanical features . . . you’ll agree it’s more than ever Australian value leader
New Holden Styling. New lower Holden silhouette . . . 20%
greater forward vision . . . Radiator grille . . . Instrument
panel . . . Interior trim treatments.
New Performance and Comfort. New 75 gross brake horse-
power. Lighter brake and clutch pedal pressures. New
ventilation. New braking area (16 square inches greater).
Holden saves you money, too. Call today see the glittering
new styling features of Holden. Then drive Holden. You’ll
quickly agree that the new Holden* is the car for you.
♦Regd.
AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR —now more than ever Australia’s finest value
*Regd,
aJL
Ml 13
HOLDEN SEDAN from £BB5 plus tax
HOLDEN STATION SEDAN from
£960 plus tax
GMAC Hire Purchase Available
Holden “Air Chief ” is the radio approved by GMH
SEE YOUR HOLDEN DEALER TODAY GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
to ‘learn more about our
friends to the south’ and to
assure them that the United
States wants to co-operate in
‘achieving a fuller life for
everyone in this hemisphere’
and in ‘building a universal
peace with justice.’ But what
he was really trying to do was
to counter Russian infiltra-
tion, political or economic;
this becomes more attractive
to Latin Americans every-
where as the improvement in
the international atmosphere
makes less obvious the need
for preserving a solid front
with the United States against
Soviet attack.”
* * *
Erskine B. Childers, in
London “Spectator”: “The con-
currence of the Tawafiq tragedy
[when Israeli troops attacked
an Arab village on the Israel-
Syria armistice-line] and Israel’s
defeat over the Inge Toft and
the Astypalea [the two ships
carrying Israeli cargoes which
Nasser detained in the Suez
Canal], though the explana-
tion in each case is different,
probably stems from a growing
mood of frustration in the
Israeli Cabinet.
“For five years Mr. Ben-
Gurion has tried to ‘diminish
Nasser’s stature’ —the stature
of a ‘personality’ like Ataturk
which, he told the Knesset on
April 2, 1957, he has ‘always
feared might arise among
Arabs,’ injecting new dynam-
ism, unity and progress into
their world. But both in the
Middle East itself, and in
Western policy, Mr. Ben-
Gurion’s admitted aim has
failed.
“The era of almost patho-
logical loathing of Nasser in
the West is just about over ;
his standing in the Arab world
remains high ; if unity is still
distant, dynamism and pro-
gress are everywhere evident.
The danger is that Mr. Ben-
Gurion, knowing that Israel’s
survival on Zionist terms
depends on Arab disunity, fear
of Israeli military power, and
conflict with the West, may be
seeking new ways of restoring
these safeguards. Water
Tawafiq may be the
beginning.”
* * *
Walter Lippmann, in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune”: “It is a mis-
take, it seems to me, to treat
the discussion of disarmament
as a substitute for the negotia-
tion of our conflicts. The best
we can hope for in disarma-
ment is that we can arrive at
relatively small agreements
which mark a certain accom-
modation, a certain reduction
of friction and tension, in the
continuing conflict of our
vital interests.”
Various Voices
Mr. Herter: “We cannot pro-
gress toward disarmament,
against the present background
of a wide spectrum of complex
weapons, merely by repeating
or endorsing hollow slogans
such as ‘ban the bomb,’ ‘give
up foreign bases,’ or ‘cut armed
forces by one-third.’ In the
absence of arms-control, the
bomb, the bases, the forces —
all respond to an urgent need
for deterring aggression. The
purpose of initial arms-control
measures should be to permit
this need to be, met in a way
which will reduce —rather than
increase—the existing risk of
war.”
* * *
Mr. Herbert Hoover: ‘‘We
have before our eyes—both in
the preaching of Karl Marx
and in the exhibitions of gov-
ernment in one-third of the
world—the fact that commerce
and industry cannot be taken
over from the people by the
Government without dictator-
ship and the destruction of all
independent thought, including
religion.”
* * *
President Eisenhower: “Col-
lective security is not only
sensible —it is essential. That
just peace which has always
been and which remains our
primary and common goal can
never be obtained through
weakness. The best assurance
against attack is still the posses-
sion and maintenance of free-
world strength to deter attack.”


' Now_ in Book-form
"Duke" Tritton's
“TIME MEANS TUCKER”
V ] r
Xk.
* I
S V
f • *•.*• \.
s
&
<4\\ V
%
A
This factual account of a shearer-drover’s experiences
in the sheds and on the track has proved to be one of
the most popular serials ever printed in “The Bulletin.”
Reader-demand for the story in book-form has been
constant.
It’s now off the press—and the price has been kept
down to 10s. a copy, post free.
PLEASE USE COUPON BELOW.
Available also over-the-counter from branch offices in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
ORDER FORM
Eook Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please post copy/copies of
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"
by H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
Price per copy, 10s.
{Post free) Amount enclosed...
Jimmy in a sort of sing-song
diminuendo he uses for under-
stating strangeness. “Let's all
of us eat.”
T\oc. Jimmy spent the after-
noon treating the line-up
at the hospital, and Ames
looked on with interest. A
row of velvety-skinned Semitic
young women calmly getting
penicillin injections. Malaria-
pill handouts. Axe-wounds
and tropic sores. Doc. Jimmy
chats with fair fluency.
“Their talk’s a bit like
Latin,” he tells Ames. “No
pronouns. Differences in
meaning, mood, tense con-
veyed in the word-endings.”
“You’d be shovelling it up-
hill in a headwind till you got
the clue, eh?”
“You can say that again.
Baffled me a long time.”
“Even pidgin had me for a
while.”
“Man, you’re breaking my
heart! ”
Ames laughs. “What kills
’em mostly?”
“Pneumonia, malaria, tied-
up with diet-deficiencies. But
they don’t kill easy. Got one
inside there was held down
on a cooking-fire. She’s got
burns up to third-degree over
half her body. Had hell’s own
job to have her lie down.”
“See what you mean,” says
Ames.
“Yet they can think
"emselves to death when they
could win at Madison Square.”
“Now you’re breaking my
heart,” says Ames.
T ate afternoon on Doc.
■*“' Jimmy’s roundabout
veranda. Low green - bellied
cloud, now, anchored to the
earth with solid rain. The
veranda seems cut-off from the
world by rain ; feels infinitely
remote. Doc. Jimmy, Ames
and Jeannie could as well be at
sea or in the gondola of an
airship.
“I guess it’s sundown,” says
Doc. Jimmy and signals a
hovering houseboy.'
“How would you know,
honey?” asks Jeannie.
Ames detects a downcast
note. It startles him. It’s like
a Persian kitten looking a gift
fish in the mouth, like Eve
being critical of the landscape
gardening. He pours Jeannie’s
drink and pushes the bottle
near Doc. Jimmy.
“It’s the rain, I guess,” says
Doc. Jimmy.
“What is, honey?”
“I just feel something. I
guess it’s the rain.”
“Snap out of it, Doc.,” says
Ames raising his glass. “Of
course it’s the bloody rain.
Cheers!”
“Hell, you can’t even hear
the waterfall,” says Doc.
Jimmy. He drinks his whisky.
“I can hear something,” says
Ames. A nearby babble rises
above the drumming of the
rain. The stores arriving.
Ames gets a rainsheet off a
hook and walks off the veranda
towards the voices. Returns
with a couple of parcels. Gives
one to Doc. Jimmy, one to
Jeannie. “Stay put,” he says.
“Everything’s under shelter.”
“Shoes!” Jeannie squeaks.
“Wedgies! Three pairs! ”
She flicks off her slippers and
tries a pair. “Size three-and-
a-half! Well-1-1 . . .”
Ames remembers that smile
for a long time.
“Nice guessing, eh?” he says.
“But you must have stared
at my feet! They must have
turned red! And three pairs ...”
“Shoes wear out quick in
New Guinea, quicker than
prams. I was in a bit of a
quandary there for a while.”
Now Jeannie turns red. The
dark red of ripe peaches.
“Now the way I figure it,”
says Doc. Jimmy, schoolboy
grin under the snubnose, “the
announcement coming up calls
for another drink.”
“Y’know,” Doc. Jimmy
says a few minutes later, “the
night Jeannie told me I just
stood outside thinking the
things you think and staring
at the stars. And there was
Madam Venus, the closest and
brightest, moving* towards the
moon like she’s done for a
billion-billion years. She’s say-
ing nothing stops, everything
goes on, and I’ll always be
here. Y’know, we been figur-
ing out names, and I’m coming
up with Venus. If we’re get-
ting ourselves a daughter I’d
sure like to call her Venus.
And a daughter like a little
Jeannie would sure enough be
a Venus.”
“I’m right with you, Doc.,”
says Ames. “What if you get
a little Doc. Jimmy?”
“I’ll figure out something to
call that son-of-a-gun,” says
Doc. Jimmy.
“We’ve been talking 'about
you,” Jeannie tells Ames.
“We’d like you for godfather.”
“Godfather to Venus,”
Ames muses aloud. “I do get
around! I can hardly wait,”
he tells Jeannie.
In the evening Doc. Jimmy


ARTHRITIS
and all
Rheumatic Complaints
treated
with excellent results
Persons in all walks of life
throughout Australia have
found freedom from suffering
and hundreds of grateful
letters have been received by
our Consultant. Simple, safe
and effective, STRATTONS
POWDER, compounded from
an Indian Formula, contains
no harmful drugs, will not
affect the heart, and has
successfully overcome all com-
plaints of the RHEUMATIC
GROUP. Send stamp for full
particulars and Proof.
Four weeks’ treatment costs
only £1 POST FREE.
STRATTONS
rheumatic powder ltd,
7 Howard St., PERTH, W.A.
opens the other parcel. He
covers the table with plans
and specifications.
“Give, man,” he tells Ames.
“It’s Sammy Reay’s planta-
tion windmill to charge bat-
teries for light. Saw him down
at Wewak. He’s experimented
a lot, and this model works
like a beaut. The plans come
with Sammy’s compliments.
Make the most of it yourself.”
“Man, that’ll make my sur-
gery. You tell Sammy thanks,
too.”
Ames turns-in feeling pretty
good. “Just a bloody do-
gooder,” he murmurs in his
mind.
A hazy, fleeting vision of a
smiling Jeannie soothes him off
to sleep.
“no all the Santa-chores?”
Chubby greets Ames
back on the base-settlement
strip.
“Strictly Santa.”
Ames feels fidgety. He
cranks his head back to
howitzer-elevation and watches
a tiny Auster chockful of pay-
load circling wearily for
height.
“What’s their place like?”
“Bloody nice. Makes this
look rough.”
“Well, just to unsoften you,
I want you to run a load in
to Kengu, bring back a couple
of lepers and anything else you
can pick up on the run home.
Okay?”
“Hardening-up course after
one night of civilised living,
eh?” says Ames.
“Dry your tears. I’m having
all hands here at base, Christ-
mas weekend. No flying.
We’ll let our hair down! ”
Chubby grins like a kid. “Now
have a feed and get going.”
“Okay,” says Ames. “The
game goes on” ? . .
Native talk comes floating
on the air far in advance of
the returning patrol. Some
prisoners, says the talk, and
one native police-boy killed.
The patrol has been away
almost four months, and it’s
well into the new year.
Standing on his veranda
MacKenzie watches the patrol
straggle along the strip.
There’s been no airlift on the
way back. Flag to be shown
at points near home.
“Calaboose ’im,” Mac-
Kenzie says to the police-boy
on watch, jerking his chin at
the prisoners. His hands are
deep in his pockets and his
square-cut cherrywood smokes
fiercely in his square-cut face.
“Sergeant Negap?” he barks
at Jonson and Stevens.
“Yes.”
“Come on in.”
In his office MacKenzie
produces the special-occasion
RhumNegrita. “Well?” he says.
MacKenzie listens patiently
for five minutes, then . . .
“What bloody way did you
come back?”
“Thirty miles west of the
outward crossing,” says
Stevens. “We came out right
by the mission.”
“Nice navigation. Go on.”
He listens even more
patiently for 20 minutes, an
occasional hard smile crack-
ing his features. Suddenly
MacKenzie’s big hand slaps
the table with a sound like a
whipcrack.
“Enough / That’s enough
about Doc. Jimmy’s Jeannie!
Now tell me about the Mubus,
the fight, and Sergeant
Negap!”
Taking in the tale of dreary
marches, gasping ascents,
freezing nights in icy rain, of
tiny savages shadowing the
patrol in the high rain-forest,
of fanatic flights of arrows
and the fallen Negap firing at
the Mubu fight-leader and
picking him off, and the tale
of the skilful and painstaking
singling-out of ringleaders for
prisoners . . . taking all this
in MacKenzie resolves, on the
first available pretext, to fly
into the Ngapoa Valley and
see Doc. Jimmy’s Jeannie for
himself.
HPOwards what would be win-
ter’s end in southern lati-
tudes where the seasons come
and go, towards this time a
tired native runner reaches the
base settlement with a message.
MacKenzie gets it at his resi-
dence at dusk. He starts his
jeep, plucks the doctor from
the Highlands Club and races
to the pilots’ mess. Shows Doc.
Jimmy’s note to Chubby.
“What d’you think, Chubby?
Civil Aviation’d scream. No
night-flying in New Guinea
and all that. But . . .”
“It’s damn’ near full moon,
and a clear night here,”
Chubby cuts him off. “No
mucking about with volunteers.
Job for the most experienced
man on that run. If he pauses
to think it over, I’ll go. Okay?
Okay with you, doctor?”
“Most certainly,” says the
doctor.
“Got your gear?”
“Yes.”
“Ames! ”
“Uh-huh?” from a chair
near the fire.
“Over here!” Ames gets up
and walks over.
“What is it?” he asks
Chubbv.
“Read that.”
Ames reads it twice. An
ice-block forms in his stomach.
A picture forms in his mind.
Not a pleasant picture. He
looks quickly at MacKenzie,
at the doctor and the doctor’s
bag, turns back to Chubby.
“Caesarean, eh?” Ames says.
“Doc. Jimmy could be
wrong?”
“I doubt it,” says the doctor.
“Could be bad?”
“It could.”
“All right with you,
Chubby?”
“No one’s stopping you!
Some of you blokes come out
and we’ll get him away!”
A few wide swathes of cloud
-f*' high in the moonlight.
Higher still the peaks. Steady
thunder from the silver gnat
nosing its way among them.
In the cockpit the doctor is
silent, overawed by the vast-
ness and unreality of the scene.
Ames is cut from stone, numb
with fatalism. Now he turns
his head slightly and judges
his wingtip distance from a
great tumbling waterfall, blue-
white and fluorescent with
moonshine. Bee-size, the plane
passes through a lunar rainbow
in the lazy drift of spray. The
doctor is stunned at the sight,
he’s out of his world. Ames
is thinking: A bloody handy
landmark, and we’re bang-on
course.
Down on the Ngapoa strip
Meho waits with the motor-
bike. He’s pushed it from the
mission and lit small fires for
rough guidance.
Ames doesn’t risk a tumble
in the creek. They walk
through it, the doctor holding
his bag well clear. The roar-
ing bike seems to run in silence
approaching the thunder of
Doc. Jimmy’s waterfall. The
doctor dismounts at the round
house thatched like a coolie's
hat.
“You’ve done your bit,” he
tells Ames. “Wait here till I
do mine.”
He gives Ames a grin and
a smack on the back.
“Go for your life, doctor.”
Ames lights a smoke, stands
the bike up and walks around.
Returns and sits on the bike.
Walks again. The ice-block is
still in his stomach. He knows
he’s behaving like a man in
danger of losing his dearest
possession. Bloody ludicrous,
but there it is. The feeling
drags at his intestines. He
can’t do a thing about it.
The doctor comes out but-
toning up his shirtsleeves.
Stands in the silver wash of
moonlight staring at Ames.
“Too late,” he says.
“What ?”
“Doc. Jimmy handled it.
Handled it right. All over bar
the howling. Come and hear
her howl!”
Ames follows the doctor in
over the veranda, walking
mechanically. They go into the
empty living-room.
“Hear that?” says the
doctor.
“What you did to me out-
side, doctor! ” says Ames
listening to the thin squalling
from the bedroom. “Don’t
ever do that to me.again!”
There’s something grim in
his voice that draws a long
look from the doctor.
“Sorry, old chap. I phrased
it thoughtlessly. Let’s sit
down.”
“You know,” Ames says
after a while, “one day Doc.
Jimmy told me he could do
most ordinary things a doc.
has to do.”
“This was more than
ordinary. And it’s all the
more to his credit that a couple
of native boys he’s trained as
nurses were of real help. He’ll
be with us in a moment or
two.”
“Hi, Ames,” says Doc.
Jimmy, looking tired and
cheerful. “And thanks for
coming over. The doctor here
sure eased my mind when he
checked on everything. I can
sure enough relax now while
Jeannie sleeps it off.”
“Girl, eh?” says Ames.
“Venus,” says Doc. Jimmy.
“I suggest we all have a
peg,” says the doctor lifting
a bottle from his bag.
“Glasses, Doc. Jimmy?”
“I still can’t believe it,” Doc.
Jimmy muses over his whisky.
“That we came through that
all right.” He muses some
more. “Life’s just a goddam
hurdle race ■. . . you go till
you catch your foot on one.”
“Yes,” says Ames. “You
go till you catch your foot
on one.”
“Well,” says Jeannie in the
(Continued on page 49)


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Doctors and Pensioners
Can’t agree with “Appendix”
(B. 24/2/ ’6O) that doctors like
practices comprised mainly of
pensioners, or that these prac
tices involve “no surgery, no
midwifery and no weekend
work.”
Pensioners tend to call on
their medico more often than
the average person because
they are pensioners. “Appen-
dix” is apparently unaware that
payment for each consultation
or visit from a pensioner is
worth approximately half the
usual fee. Furthermore, pen-
sioners—like the now-defunct
class of lodge-patients—tend to
call more for their medico
because there is no cost to
themselves.
Many a doctor has among
his patients families whose
breadwinner is a pensioner—•
usually an invalid pensioner—
but whose powers of pro-
creation are not in any way
restricted; in which case every
two years or so a midwifery
case comes along.
At the smaller country hos-
pitals—in N.S.W. particularly
—where there are no resident
doctors, the general practitioner
is required to care for his
pensioner-patients, when they
are hospitalised, free of charge.
Operations and all medical
attention to a public patient
are performed without any fee
whatever to the attending doc-
tor, but the responsibility is
still his, together with the blame
if—as is not uncommon with
old and frail people—some-
thing goes wrong.
True, there are occasional
go-getters who see the pen-
sioner as easy money. But
these are fortunately few and
far between, and are usually
easily detected by State Health
Departments and dealt with by
the appropriate branch of the
B.M.A.
Many doctors regard pen-
sioners as not worth the trouble
and refuse to accept them as
patients. Without subscribing
to this inhuman view one may
cite it in refutation of “Appen-
dix's” statements.
And the only way the aver-
age G.P. can get free nights
and weekends these days is by
grouping himself with partners
(of up to seven or eight in some
places) and rostering night and
weekend duty. — Medic (Q.).
“The Heroes”
The reviewer of Ronald
McKie's The Heroes (Red Page
17/2/’6O) says that little has
been -published about the first
raid on Japanese shipping in
Singapore Harbor. On the
contrary, the whole story of
this wonderful exploit is given
“And what encourages you to think there's a place for
you in midget submarines?"
in Winning Hazard, written
under the pen-name “Noel
Wynyard” by the wife of
Lieut.-Commander Davidson.
As Lord Gowrie says in his
foreword to this book, “Mrs.
Davidson herself served as an
intelligence-officer and was con-
nected with the operation
throughout the initial stages to
its successful conclusion.” —D.
(Vic.).
Longer School Hours
Having lately been ear-
bashed for the equivalent of a
school-day, sitting on a hard
seat throughout the ordeal, I
can’t support “Peter Simple's”
argument for longer school-
hours. However, there is a
real need to fill the school-day
with more hard work.
The “elbow-grease” content
of our education over the past
20 years has been diluted, with
the inevitable result of lowered
standards. This is due to
several factors.
First, the many interruptions
to the school-day by visitors,
preparations for functions,
sports, etc., particularly in the
primary school.
Second, the abolition of the
external Intermediate examina-
tion. The internal examina
tion is brought down to the
standard of the pupil, with the
result that the certificate which
goes with it is no longer worth
very much.
Third, it is no longer neces-
sary for a teacher to produce
concrete academic results in
order to win promotion.
There are other factors —
excessively large classes, undue
emphasis on “frills” and the
unpopularity of repetition as
an aid to learning—but if
something could be done about
the three factors listed above,
hard work might come back to
the classroom, to the advantage
of pupils and a nation desper-
ately in need of well-informed
citizens. And this without any
extension of present school-
hours.—P.H.K. (N.S.W.).
“The Green-gold Country”
I must dispute a few points
in Pauline Littlefair’s article
“The Green-gold Country” (B.
17/2/’6O).
For a start, sugarcane is not
burnt to get rid of the “wee
beasties,” etc., but to remove
the trash or leaves, for which
right the cutters often stage a
sit-down strike, although if it
is burnt the cutting rate of pay
is lowered. The farmer would
rather not burn, as it affects
the sugar-content.
As for the reference to sugar
not being subsidised: well, it
may not be called that, but \
remember when the sugar-users
put up the argument in the
'twenties that they could import
sugar and pay all those en-
gaged in the industry to remain ;
idle, and remunerate them to
their present income on the
difference in cost. It was to,
quieten this criticism that a|
rebate was made to the jam-
manufacturers.
Again, I question very much
if there were many Italians l
engaged in the industry prior to!
the twenties. The first ones put
in an appearance around 1926?
in the Mackay district. The
first and only four that year 1
were cutting across the Pioneer i
River from me at the time. The,
Italians confined themselves to
Innisfail in the beginning, and
there was some ill-feeling, with;
picketing of canefields. One
Australian was shot. One of
, the grievances was that the
I Italians used to start work at
daylight and work until dark,
with a siesta at midday.
True, the complete turnover
of manpower is five to seven)
years. You rarely find a cutter
above 27 years old. They get
away by then, or become burnt-
out. Richard Farringdon, the 1 ,
“gun” of the north about 1925,)
used to cut just on twice as!
much as the average man. Two
years after, when I tried to
contact him, I was told he was
working as a farmhand for a
cocky at Sarina.
Each farmer does not pro-
vide accommodation for 10|
men, as stated. One or two
cutters would cut all the cane
of an average farmer, but they
form gangs of up to 10 and
cut for adjacent farms. —J.
Carson (N.S.W.).
Pauline Littlefair's article
suggests that the Australian !
sugar industry assists the jam
industry. The position is en-
tirely the reverse.
The price charged (£BO a 1
ton less £2 4s. rebate — i.e., \
£77 16s. a ton) for sugar used
in making jams for the Aus-
tralian market carries a loading ‘
of some £35 a ton at least to
cover the losses made by the
sugar industry in the overseas
sale of surplus sugar each year,
Ninety per cent, of the jam I
commercially made in Aus-
tralia now has to be eaten in
Australia. Costs of production,
have knocked-out overseas I
sales of jam to the extent of
millions of lbs. It is this jam'
sold in Australia that is now
in peril because of the high
cost of its sugar-content (65
per cent). The subsidy is
therefore from the jam industry
to the sugar industry, not the


)
.
Vx
h
V v
7
When the occasion calls for that
there’s always
Teacher's
HIGHLAND CREAM
Scotch Whisky
Only long experience could produce Scotch
of such unvarying quality and good taste as
Teacher’s Highland Cream. Today, as since
1830, the Teacher family still
personally supervises the
making of this world famous
product of Scotland.
Teachers
mmcsm
Vi
)»
3 SJ
Meetion of
WM**
|3ji e«“i Sok*
!CO«
•••'>.
r
HSSJ
El
Agents —N.S.W.: Tucker & Co. Pty. Limited, Sydney. Queensland: The Australian
Estates Company Ltd., Brisbane. South Australia: Goldsbrough Mort & Company
Limited. Adelaide.
TWI-83
other way round. — Fruit-
grower (Q.).
Women and Science
The suggested use of male
science-teachers and bo y s’-
schools laboratories for teach-
ing science to girls is con-
structive, but scarcely prac-
ticable, at least as far as State
secondary schools are con-
cerned (B. 10 /2 / ’6O). To say
that “these schools are not
overloaded with fully qualified
science-teachers” is to put it
mildly.
The proportion of science-
graduate teachers to secondary
pupils is about 1 to 200. Many
non-graduate teachers are
working for degrees by corres-
pondence, but you can’t do
science this way.
Even if we had enough
science-graduate teachers, I
doubt whether there would be
an appreciable increase in the
number of girls seeking to
become science - graduate
teachers. Many girls are
attracted to kindergarten- or
primary-teaching because of
the short course. But few are
anxious to commit themselves
to a course of four or five years
on a small scholarship-allow-
ance knowing, as they do, that
they will probably marry a few
years after graduation.
I feel we should rely mainly
on boys as our future science-
teachers. These days salaries
and prospects of promotion are
reasonably good, but conditions
are not the best. Something
should be done about discipline,
size of classes and accommoda-
tion for teachers transferred to
the country. —H. M. (N.S.W.).
The Purchase System
Rollo Gillespie (B. 17/2/’6O)
errs in stating that in the days
when the purchase-system was
in vogue in the British Army
(17th century to mid-19th cen-
tury) “no man could hold a
commission unless first pre-
pared to put down a substantial
sum for the right of joining,
and then pay for each sub-
sequent step in rank.”
Commissioned rank could
be obtained and promotion
secured by other means. In-
deed, the ranker-officer was not
Unknown. Colonel Fitz-Gib-
bon, who won a niche in
history when, as a lieutenant
commanding only 46 men, he
bluffed 500’ Americans into
surrendering at Beaver Dams
in the War of 1812, rose from
the ranks.
This wasn’t an exceptionally
rare case. Quite a number of
men of no fortune, largely
dependent on their pay, en-
tered the Army with com-
missioned rank. Hodson was
the son of a country clergyman,
Havelock the son of a retired
businessman who had suffered
financial reverses, and Colonel
Gurwood, editor of Welling-
ton’s dispatches, was a clerk
who entered the Army as an
ensign because of personal dis-
appointments.
Contrary to R.G.’s belief,
money came from trade as well
as land in those days. Many a
rich tradesman or professional
man bought a landed estate and
set-up as a country gentleman.
Tradesmen’s sons often entered
the Army by purchase of com-
missions. The officer - corps
also was well sprinkled with
sons of professional men. Sir
Harry Smith’s father was a
country doctor, Sir John
Moore’s a surgeon, and Clive’s
a lawyer.
Admittedly the purchase-
system brought some fine
officers into the British Army.
Sir Ralph Abercombie, one of
the best British generals of the
Napoleonic War, rose by pur-
chase from cornet to general.
This was before he first saw
active service in 1793, when he
accompanied the Duke of York
to Flanders. He quickly
established a reputation “as a
gallant and judicious officer.”
General Isaac Brook, victor of
Queenston Heights in the
American War of 1812, was
another capable officer who
owed his advancement in Army
rank to purchase. Paget, who
won fame by his brilliant
cavalry action at Sahagun


during Sir John Moore’s re-
treat to Corunna, was another.
—Cunedda (N.S.W.).
The Armada
It is interesting to compare
Frofessor Mattingly’s account
of the Armada (B. 20/l/’6O)
with this one in a history text-
book widely used in N.S.W.
secondary schools: The Spanish
were selfish, whereas the Eng-
lish were gallant and unafraid.
Philip of Spain built his
Armada because of Drake’s
attacks, Elizabeth’s refusal to
marry him and her assistance
to the Dutch rebels. [There is
no mention of Elizabeth's
execution of Mary, Queen of
Scots.]
The Armada, we are told,
consisted of “129 immense
ships,” while the English fleet
of “80 small ships was com-
manded by Lord Floward of
Effingham, a Roman Catholic
nobleman.”
Obviously, this kind of
history is full of inaccuracies
if Mattingly is correct.
The textbook author is in
good company, however, for
even H. A. L. Fisher's History
of Europe describes the Duke
of Medina Sidonia as “a foolish
and cowardly landsman, who
was selected on the ground of
his rank alone.” But the “Red
Page” says the duke “shows
himself to be the finest type of
fighting-officer” and is almost
“But I keep telling you, dear , it came open in the heat!”
one of “the heroes of this
story.”—M.J.D. (N.S.W.).
N.T. on the Move
Thank you, “C.8.M.” (B.
17/2/”60), for your par. about
the banks in Darwin. I suspect
that “Commonwealth” is a
misprint for “Commercial,”
although I can’t say for certain.
But the Commercial of Aus-
tralia had a branch in Darwin
more than 50 years ago; more
like 80.
W. J. Sowden, in an informa-
tive book on the Northern
Territory published in 1882,
refers to the three banks in
Palmerston (as Darwin was
then called): the E., S. and A.,
which was the “old bank,” and
the C.B.A. and Town and
Country, the two “new banks.”
As far as I know, the
E., S. and A. opened in
the early ’seventies, having
been induced to go there by
C. B. Fisher, the pastoral king
of the Territory at that, time.
Fisher took-up some enormous
slices of country, and was
financed by the E., S. and A.
Bank. The Town and Country
Bank was, I think, taken-over by
the C.B.A. about the time of
the bank-crisis in 1892. It was a'
small concern, limited to S.A
Until the Commonwealth Ban);
opened round 1936 —first ij'
Darwin, later in Alice Springs-
the E., S. and A. and the C.B.A,
did all the banking business
for the Territory, the E.,
and A. acting as agent for the
Commonwealth Savings Bank,
Banking life in those far-offi
days was a very peaceful sort
of existence, the banks only!
opening from 10 a.m. to 12
noon, except on steamer-days!
when there was a hectic rush.f
I was in Darwin in 1925, and
know what sort of a life the
boys led, especially if the 1
steamer from Ch na arrived)
simultaneously with the one
from the south, as occasionally
happened.
The staffs were well treated,
The arrangement the E., S. and
A. had was for three years’ ser-
vice and then three months'
leave on full pay. Tropical
allowances were quite generous,
and there was usually keen
competition for an appoint!
ment to Darwin. Living wasn't
dear; Mrs. Gordon, who ran
the old “Vic,” the leading
hostelry, provided excellent ac-
commodation at 10s. a day for
casuals, and at a cheaper rate
for permanents. And, if you
landed-in late at night, as I
did once in 1927, she would
always scratch-up a good meal
—no chasing you round to a
cafe. —D. C. Tilghman
(N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 582
Across
I—What’s rarer than seldom doubled outback? (5-5)
6—Fix up chaps with pennies. (4)
10— Georgia’s gossip. (3)
11 — Lady Godiva could hardly have been under-changed. (5)
12 — Be put back to bed? Went back, anyway. (5)
13 — Return from the field drier surrender. (5, 2,3, 5)
15 —Wine by which Evatt introduces himself. (5)
17 —An instance no longer more than enough. (7)
19—Ballet exponent is split
asunder. (7)
21—A little bird taken to an enor-
mous one. (5)
23- —Robin’s little brother in
dotage. (6, 9)
26 — Striking success to be a Japanese'
city. (4)
27 Syrian city beer given to the
pianissimo duck. (6)
28— A big chemical firm here in
France. (3)
29 — Fruit appointment. (4)
30 — Apostle to venerate a dance
rider. (4, 6)
Down
1 — Parasols for keeping off the
moon and the underworld of the
dark belladonnas. (11)
2 Envy trams carrying a church-
worker. (9)
3 Mo got married when reno-
vated. (7)
4 Lair seen with them in a German
city. (5)
5 Improper theatre is most un-
refined. (9)
7 It’s impolite to use this in pro-
gressing the Spanish gesture ot
politeness. (5)
8— Pop one into a theologian. (3)
9 Resting-place for one who
voyages with a girl out ot
breath. (6)
14—Team from St. Lucia, Mont-
serrat, Antigua, Dominica and
Guadeloupe—not from Trinidad.
Tobago and Barbados. (7, 4)
16 —Vehicle has a visit with a Roman
noted for his baths. (9)
18—Utensil cat and I take Yours
Truly into a show. (9)
20 —Tiroes when the nose is
broken. (4)
22 —Thanks! Coppers are given to
some European creature at home
in water. (7)
24 — Measure an apprentice in report-
ing it. (5)
25 Drive spirit put on the electric-
light. (5)
26 — Pull the leg of some child. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 581


morning, “what do you think
of your Venus, godfather
Ames?”
Ames, rarely talkative, can
find nothing to say. He looks
on the small red crumpled face
of Venus, holds Jeannie’s hand
in both of his for a moment
and goes out. He goes out
with a queer lingering feeling
of nearness to something
unidentifiable.
Early in the morning Ames
and the doctor rise into a
golden sunshot sky and move
among the peaks towards
home. Again the glory of it
stills the doctor. Ames rides
with his thoughts. Thoughts
transcending little things.
Thoughts of the empty years
ahead. Ames rides with his
thoughts.
“Damn near Christmas
again, eh?” Chubby chirps-up
in the Company mess.
“Going to turn it on again?”
asks Kelly, scratching the red
hair on his chest.
“Itching for it, eh?” says
Chubby. “Yes. This time
we’ll throw a party in the
club. Decorations. Wives and
ootzie-wootzies welcome.”
“Where the hell do we get
these ootzie-wootzies?”
“Dunno! The Madang
blokes might fly some dancing-
partners in. Up to you, then.
We’ll get all the blokes in here
at base. No flying for three
days. Incidentally, Kelly,
you’ll miss it. Sending you
south on leave.”
“It’s not due. Why?”
“Two months since you
crashed and you’re still jumpy.
That’s why.”
“Chalmers will miss it, too,”
says someone.
“Probably got oodles of
ootzie - wootzies among the
angels,” says patrol-officer
Jonson, a guest for the even-
ing. “There’s a lot to be said
for walking.”
“I’d like to hear it some-
time,” says Chubby. “Some
other time. I hereby appoint
Ames Director of Decor for
the occasion under discussion.
Noes? Carried. Hans, do you
mind assuming the mantle of
Superintendent of Catering?”
“Ja! Ido not mind!”
“Good. Stickney, would you
Polish us up an orchestra?”
“Certainly, old boy.”
“That wraps it up. Here’s
what’s for tomorrow . .
A couple of days before
Christmas Eve. Ames is sitting
outside the Company flight-
office enjoying the morning
sun, the prospect of a free day
and some through-the-window
conversation with Gaffney, a
grizzled oldtimer in charge of
ground affairs.
It’s a sparkling blue sunny
mountain morning. Giving
depth to the scene comes Mac-
Kenzie, striding purposefully
along the strip towards the
flight-office.
“Morning, Ames,” he says.
“Strife. Kimikis and Ngapoas
are stuck into it on the Ngapoa
side.”
“Kanaka talk?”
“In this case, I think
dependable.”
“What do you want? I’m free.”
“Plane available?”
“Only needs filling-up.”
“Then take my kids, Stevens
and Jonson, and four police-
boys to the Ngapoa strip.
There you can hang around
a bit, get the talk, come back
for more police-boys if needed.
I’ll have ’em ready.”
“Okay, Mac.”
/~\nly a few women and chil-
dren greet the plane at
the Ngapoa strip. The Ngapoa
men are absent, not a good sign.
A police-boy interpreter
talks to the women. Ames
gets ice in his guts again.
Again the indefinable feeling
of being close to something.
The turnimtalk passes on his
information.
The Kimiki, in a resurgence
of their native treachery,
invited Ngapoa leaders to a
feast. After the meal the
guests were informed that their
food had been poisoned, and
several promptly died. Those
not so predisposed to auto-
suggestion escaped and carried
the tale back home to the
Ngapoa, who promptly sent
word to the white mastas to
justify their own interim puni-
tive expedition. The Kimiki,
guessing all this, hastened to
nip the Ngapoa sally in the
bud. The fight began about
three miles up the mountain
track above the mission.
“Talkie - poison murders
again, eh?” says Stevens.
“We’ll walk up there via the
mission. Get some more gen
there.”
“I’ll sit around for a while,”
says Ames. “Give you time
to get there. Then I’ll fly over
and you can signal if you want
more help. MacKenzie’s
instructions.”
“Right, see you.”
It isn’t easy to get the real
gist of jungle-matters from the
air, but Ames could read the
message mirror-flashed from
the centre of a burnt-out
clearing.
“Fight under control. Need
no help. Doc. Jimmy dead.”
Ames pulls the plane in a
tight turn round the mission,
but drops no message. Jeannie
runs out, knows who’s flying
and waves, and Ames waves
his wing and goes home. Let
her have some more hours of
marriage. They can tell her
better. Life’s a hurdle race,
he thinks back, and you keep
going till you catch your foot
on one . . .
Back at base the tale’s filled-
in. Expecting the Kimiki to
anticipate their reaction, the
Ngapoa cut a kundu-cane
river bridge to almost break-
ing point. Doc. Jimmy, hoping
to prevent a fight, took the
bridge on the motorbike at
top speed, and the bridge took
Doc. Jimmy with it to the
bottom of the ravine.
Antagonists on both sides of
the altercation were so dis-
tressed that the bottom fell out
of the fight.
“Go and get Jeannie!”
snaps Chubby at the home strip.
Ames fills-up with petrol
and goes back. Past the old
familiar peaks, the sunshot
waterfall, over the silver
snakey-twisting streams, fan-
ning the jungle tops and
skimming through the passes.
Going to get Jeannie.
She rides back beside
Ames, in the right-hand cock-
“ Chello!”
pit seat, with chubby little
Venus on her knees. Jeannie
is still beautiful, exotic, tiny
in the big bucket-seat, and
her chin is lifted against col-
lapse. At the base settlement
she’s put in the care of the
almost too-capable wife of
Gaffney, the ground-manager.
“I . . . I . . . oh, thank you,
Ames,” she says on Gaffney’s
veranda.
“Keep that chin up, girl,”
says Ames. “What will
become of Doc.’s mission?”
“They will send another
man from the States.”
“Good. Call on me or any
of us for anything. See you
soon, Jeannie.”
CJeeing Jeannie off to her folk
in New Orleans, god-
father Ames holds toddling
little Venus by a tiny hand
and looks at the big plane
standing eager at the top end
of the strip. Coppery, plumed
kanakas are loading freight.
The two Qantas pilots wander
across to Ames to say hullo.
“Hullo there, Ames, old
fella! How goes the last out-
post of Dick Tracy flying?”
“Goes okay, Lionel. Good-
day, Fred. Like you to meet
your most important passen-
ger, Mrs. Doc. Jimmy.
Jeannie to you.”
“We’ve heard about you,”
says Lionel, “and glad to have
you. Nothing we can say about
Doc. Jimmy that isn’t already
said. You know how we feel.”
“Thank you.”
“Time to start-up,” says
Lionel. “See you aboard.”
“Listen, Jeannie,” Ames says
abruptly, “d’you think that in
time I could be Doc. Jimmy?”
He stands there looking
gravely down at Jeannie.
“Must you go?”
Jeannie gazes right back up
at him, her cheeks turning that
dusky, ripe-peach red.
“I love New Guinea, Ames.
And, this seems strange and
bad ... I love you. In a
little time ...”
Ames disengages his hand
from little Venus and walks
forward abreast of the big
plane’s cockpit. Waves a
washout signal to its pilots.
Lionel leans out with a great
big grin and both thumbs up.
“Good on you, Ames! I’ve
won a bet!” he yells.
Watching the big plane race
and lift, Ames becomes almost
maudlin.
“Seeing that thing go, and
holding your hand, Jeannie, is
the best thing that ever came
my way,” he says.
And so another man in New
Guinea begins conversations
with a Jeannie who isn’t there.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
LAND HEALTH
The Soil Association, a non-
profitmaking society established
for research and education and
limited by guarantee, has its
registered office at New Bells
Farm, Haughley, Suffolk (Eng.),
its administrative office is at
BF, Hyde Park Mansions, Lon-
don, N.W.I.
At Haughley the association
has been experimenting in
search of quality in food.
Lady Eve Balfour, who has
had a great deal to do with
this experiment, and who last
year visited Australia, has
some interesting and stimulat-
ing ideas on the subject of
land-health.
Wholeness
What is called the Haughley
Experiment she defines as an
attempt to discover “all those
factors, known and unknown,
in food which together result
in health.” She explains that
there are four incontrovertible
facts that affect modern civili-
sation. All these facts are
recognised, “but because they
concern four different fields of
Per capita wool-con-
sumption figures of the
major wool-producing
countries of the world
show that South Africa,
with a wool-consump-
tion figure of only
1.81b., has the lowest
wool consumption of
any major wool-
producing country. This
figure includes the
native population whose
chief use of wool is lor
blankets. Other per
capita consumption
figures include 8.2lb.
in New Zealand, 7.11b.
in Australia, and 6.01b.
in the U.K.
South African pro-
ducers, as well as
Australian and New
Zealand, know the
advantages of using the
proven method of lamb
castration and tailing—
Elastrator.
Elastrator Rubber Rings
provide swift, certain,
bloodless and humane
castration and tailing
of lambs and calves.
specialised knowledge medi-
cine, animal-husbandry, agro-
nomy and soil-conservation—
they have been studied as
though they were four un-
related problems, when in fact
they are one. The clue to this
discovery, which had for so
“I’m gettin' bit suspicious of ’e, Mauther."
long been missed, lies in their
simultaneous appearance.”
The facts, as she sees them,
are:
1. Degenerative diseases in
human-beings are increasing. Since
these diseases are caused by meta-
bolic misfunction and proper
metabolism depends on proper
nutrition, there is strong evidence
that this increase of disease is
nutritional in origin.
2. Farm livestock shows an
increasing lack of stamina and is
subject to many new diseases, some
of them puzzling and unexplained.
There is a strong suspicion here
also that the origin is nutritional.
3. Plant-diseases and pest-ipfes-
tation of crops increase each year.
Natural resistance seems almost
entirely to have disappeared. Here,
too, there are strong grounds for
suspecting that the cause is
nutritional.
4. All over the world there is an
increase in soil-sickness —loss of
those qualities in soil which enable
it to grow healthy crops and to
resist extremes of drought and flood.
Since these qualities are the by-
product of the activity of the life
within the soil, again the deduction
is that the trouble is metabolic and
hence the origin nutritional.
The moment these four pheno-
mena are looked at in perspective,
as different parts of one whole, not
only is their simultaneous appear-
ance seen to be no coincidence,
but it becomes apparent that the
only hope of improving nutrition
and bettering health lies in studying
them as a whole.
Soil Fertility
Food has been described as
“fabricated soil-fertility.” If
the soil lacks vitality, argues
Lady Eve Balfour, “the plants
that grow in it will lack vitality,
too, and so will the animals and
humans who feed on these
plants.” Yet awareness of this
connection between human
health and soil-health is still
the exception, not the rule:
The orthodox approach to the
phenomena I ha,ve listed is to
tackle illness in man or beast by
seeking specific cures for specific
diseases —through drugs, injections,
antibiotics and the like; to
“protect” crops by seeking specific
poisons to kill specific pests, and
to save the soil by erecting vast
engineering works, or pouring on
chemicals, or both.
None of these palliatives
really succeeds. One disease
is “cured,” but another appears.
Poisons poison people and the
friendly predatory insects more
than the pests. A§ Aldo
Leopold said: “Though the
art of land-doctoring is being
practised with vigor, the science
of land-health is yet to be
born.”
Lady Eve Balfour* describes
the orthodox approach as nega
tive, more concerned with
suppressing symptoms than
with removing causes.
The opposite and correct
approach, she says, is .to find
the causes, put them right and
prevent disease, not by direct
attack on the evil but by foster-
ing health. Pest-damage must
be overcome by restoring bio-
logical balance and bringing
about conditions which en-
hance the natural resistance of
the host and at the same time
favor predators of the pest. '
Food-chains
“Healthy living-function,
she says, “can only be studied!
by observing healthy creatures
living their life-cycle in their
normal environment of which j
they themselves are part, for
although all life is specific,
none is independent”:
In the innumerable food-chains
and mutual independence that we*
call wilderness, seldom is any.
species exterminated and also seldom
does any species reach pest-propor-
tions. In such places, therefore,
Nature has established a balance.
It is therefore important that such
wilderness-areas should not be losv
since they act as a living laboratory
in which mankind can study
Nature's biological laws.
Food-chains in which human-!
beings are directly involved,
are the agricultural food-chains —
soil, crop, animal, man, soil. This
man-made pattern, too, can achieve
its own biological balance. Our!
survival depends on learning how
to restore balance—this biotic
health, which has been lost.
The first step in this study,]
according to Lady Eve BaL
four, “must be to compare
different systems of land-use
in their effect on permanent 1
soil-fertility, and on the health
of soil-products, direct or in- 1
direct.” This is what the
Haughley Experiment is try- (
ing to do.
World of the Soil
The first link in the human
food-chain is the living soil,
which is “inhabited by prodigi-l
ous numbers of living organ-
isms, inconceivably small, lead-s
ing lives of which we can form
only the haziest conception,
yet somehow linked-up with
our lives in that they produce
the food of plants, which con-|
stitute our food, and remove!
from the soil substances that
would be harmful to us.” (The


THE ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
Bth April-19th April, 1960
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle of
the year. At the 1960 Royal Easter
Show you will see our finest
stock on parade, cattle judging,
wood chopping, primary and
secondary industry exhibits and a
feature-packed programme of
special ring events, including
trotting.
Come to the 1960 Royal Easter
Show at the Showground, Sydney.
10 DAYS —8 NIGHTS
m
§
World of the Soil: Sir John
Russell).
The main groups of these
living creatures are bacteria,
fungi, small fauna and earth-
worms. Sir John Russell ex-
plains that a salt-spoonful of
dry garden-soil, which weighs
about 1| gramme, on present
knowledge contains roughly
twice as many bacteria as there
are men, women and children
in the whole world.
On the conditions of life and
well-being of this vast soil-
population depend the feeding
and health of the plant-popu-
lation. Soil-structure, which
enables soil to absorb moisture
and air and remain stable
under different climatic strains
and stresses, is a product of
soil-life actually functioning.
Soil-erosion, on the other hand,
invariably indicates a previous
condition of soil-sickness —
sickness and decline in the soil-
population. The first rule of
good husbandry is to feed the
soil-population.
Operation of the Experiment
Recognising that research
must be devoted to the whole
problem—mechanism of soil-
fertility, operation of the food-
chain, constituents of quality
and health—those working at
Haughley use as the unit of
time a rotation-period, observe
cumulative effects by studying
the food-chain through succes-
sive generations of crops and
animals, and direct their atten-
tion towards health, not disease.
Instead of wonderful equip-
ment and beautiful laboratories
devoted, perhaps, to the study
of poultry-diseases, livestock-
diseases and plant-pathology,
the Haughley Experiment is
set-up as three separate, pom-
plete small farms following
three different systems of land-
use. All are under the same
management and on the same
type of soil —alkaline clay-loam
on glacial formation.
Two of the units are live-
stock-farms, and work the
same rotation of four years in
temporary pasture followed by
four years of arable cropping.
Each carries its own herd of
dairy-cattle and flock of poul-
try, breeding its own replace-
ments. The grain-crops (wheat,
oats and barley) and the pulse-
crops (peas and beans) are
grown each year from seed
saved from the year before.
All organic wastes in these
farms, in the form of crop-
residue, straw and animal
manure, are returned to their
own unit. On one farm, known
as the Organic Section, practic-
ally no importations of any
kind from outside are brought
in. The other, the Mixed Sec-
tion, supplements its organic
returns with conventional appli-
cations of commercial mineral
fertilisers.
The third farm, smaller than
the others, is operated without
any animals at all and known
as the Stockless Section. Here
crops are sold off the farm,
except for what is needed for
seed the following year, and are
grown with commercial fertili-
sers supplemented with green-
crop manuring.
Preparatory work for this
study began in 1939. The
nucleus of the livestock, from
which the present herds and
flocks have been developed,
was introduced between 1947
and 1950. The scientific side
of the work began in 1952
under Dr. R. F. Milton, con-
sulting biochemist.
This is long-time research,
but already the nutritional
differences between the three
farms are tending to increase
year by year. This justifies the
belief that the normal frag-
mentary approach to the prob-
lems of health and nutrition
should be changed to the study
of food-chains as a whole.
For instance, humus has
constantly tended to increase
in the Organic Section, to re-
main constant in the Mixed,
and to decrease in the Stock-
less. Analysis of the Organic
Section crops shows that they
have just as high a mineral
content as those to which
mineral fertilisers have been
added. Size of grain in the
wheatcrops from the third
generation onwards has been
greatest in the Organic Section
and least in the Stockless.
Iron shows significantly greater
availability in the Organic
Section than in either of the
others.
These preliminary findings
in a comparatively short time
make it clear that this work
should continue and be re-
peated elsewhere in whatever
form is suitable to the soil and
climate where experiment is
undertaken.
Wool-production
Competition
Following successful wool-
production cbmpetitions at the
last two Armidale (N.S.W.)
Shows, the University of New r
South Wales in conjunction
with the New England Pastoral,
Agricultural and Horticultural
Association will run a similar
competition there this year.
Entries are to consist of a
pen of five Merino wethers of
any age, to be shorn at the
Show and run together for the
following 12 months on a good
level of nutrition, and then,
at the 1961 Show, four wethers
are to be selected by the owner
from his particular group for
shearing. The group of fleeces
with the highest total com-
mercial value will be adjudged
the winner.
There’s no entry-fee and
entries may be made in writing
to the Secretary of the N.E.P.A.
and H. Association, P.O. Box
10, Armidale, N.S.W., or the
Officer-in-Charge, Flock Test-
ing Service. P.O. Box 1, Ken-
sington, N.S.W.
A Problem Year
“Pat O’Day”: This year of
1960 may prove difficult for
the sheepman. Prices have
dropped so alarmingly that he
generally cannot sell his pro-
duct —fat-lambs, store-lambs,
Merino or crossbred weaners,
wethers off-shears, aged ewes
or culled sheep—at any profit.
Of course he can obtain a
fair price for his young breed-
ing-ewes ; but these are the
basis of his flock and income,
so he’d be foolish if he parted
with them.
Prices obtained in the
Riverina for all types of sheep
sold from December, 1959,
until late February, 1960, were
so low that the prospective
seller, if he wished to stay on
the land, had no wise choice
but to withdraw his offerings
and take them back to his
property.
When crossbred weaners of
mixed sexes with about seven-
months’ wool, dipped and in
forward store-condition, sell at
only 28s. there’s nothing to
compensate for maintaining
flocks in good, healthy con-
dition. Many graziers in the
Riverina and South - west
Slopes districts are not selling
a hoof until March, depending
on the rains. If the market is
still down then, they will keep
even aged sheep to get a good
wool-clip for 1960.


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
The Perfect Hotel
For BUSY Men and Women
Right in the heart of the city, the
Hotel Metropole is the ideal place to
stay during your Sydney business
tiip and at the same time you’ll find
its pleasant atmosphere really
relaxing.
Only a step away from Sydney’s
main business offices and handy to
shops and all forms of transport—
The Hotel Metropole combines
convenience and comfort with the
relaxed, friendly atmosphere that
has for years made it Australia’s
friendliest Hotel. Over 400 rooms
ail with telephone and hot and cold
water (95 with private bathrooms),
luxurious ultra-modern suites, day
and night room-service, fine, enter-
taining facilities and magnificent
dining-room and cellar make the
Hotel Metropole THE hotel for
busy men and women.
Write today for colour folder.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Where It’s Never
Too Much Trouble
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
Huge Boom-sprayer
“Myall”: Claimed as the
world’s largest, a boom-spray
plant operated by a Dalby
(Q.) contractor has a span of
120 ft. and effectively sprays a
swathe of 140 ft.
The prime-mover is a blitz-
wagon mounted with a 500-
gallon tank; the collapsible
booms are folded lengthwise
along the top, making a com-
pact unit.
All parts of the machine are
hydraulically controlled from
the driver’s cabin. The pres-
sure-control, fitted on the dash-
board. can regulate pressure
from zero to 2001 b. a square-
inch. The pump, fitted with
nylon rollers, has a total out-
put of 1500 gals. an hour, and
may be operated up to 3501 b.
to the square-inch
The extended booms can be
adjusted to any height from
2ft. 6in. to Bft. above ground-
level, and can cope with any
crop. Each boom can be
lifted separately.
The spray-tank, filled from
the main tank in three minutes,
is fitted with a by-pass to ensure
that the spray is thoroughly
mixed and kept agitated dur-
ing the operation, and the truck
is fitted with searchlights for
night - spraying. The wide
boom-span ensures that truck-
wheels flatten only a very small
percentage of plants and
damage is negligible.
This huge spraying-plant is
a challenge to aerial-spraying,
which, although quicker, can
seldom put the chemical exactly
where it’s needed, except in
very calm weather. Farmers
in some districts of South
Queensland are seeking the
prohibition of aerial-spraying
in certain circumstances, claim-
ing that wind-drift from
machines spraying weeds on
adjoining properties has killed
other crops in the vicinity. A
boom-sprayer is able to spray
the chemical right into the crop
without damage, even in gale-
force winds that make aerial-
spraying impossible.
Fire Erosion
“Wimra”: At the end of
last year fires raged over almost
the whole of north-western Vic-
toria’s Big Desert, which ex-
tends 60 miles east from the
South Australian border. This
burnt-out area could become a
great dust-bowl, threatening the
Wimmera wheatlands to the
south of it. Already, in Decem-
ber last year, one serious dust-
storm originated there.
Normally, dense scrub
stabilises the desert’s sandy
soil. In some parts there are
still enough remains of the
burnt scrub to prevent serious
erosion before the cover re-
generates. Where rain has
fallen, spinifex and other
grasses have come through, and
the scrub shows signs of grow-
ing again.
Over a considerable acreage,
however, drift has already
begun, notably on the sand-
dune crests where the burn was
cleanest among the low-grow-
ing heath and honey-suckle.
Unlike mallee-scrub, these leave
few, if any, skeleton-stems.
Compacted by rain, bound by
mosses, lichens and fungus, and
baked by the fire, some of these
clean-burn areas have a surface-
seal strong enough to carry a
Land-Rover; but drift-sand,
riding on this, could, under con-
tinued dry, windy conditions,
start a mass soil-movement.
Some shire-councils in the
area assume that, as always in
the past, the burnt-out scrub
will regenerate itself after
rain. There’s a grave danger,
however, that repeated burn-
ings—and parts of the Big
Desert have been burnt-out
three and four times in the past
10- years—will slow-down and
eventually end this natural
regeneration.
For the sake of the more
fertile surrounding districts and
the desert itself, it’s time that
more effective fire-prevention
measures were enforced.
Thorough
“M’Lou”: John Drum, of
Minyip (Vic.), certainly earned ;
his win in his district’s 1959’
Wheat Crop Competition. To
get his prize-winning crop of
Olympic he started in August,
1958.
First, he broke-up the pad-
dock with a mouldboardl
plough, he disk-harrowed it in/
September, scarified in Novem-j
ber, harrowed in January,
1959, scarified in late Febru-|
ary, shear-harrowed in March,
scarified in April, shear-har- j
rowed again in May, and
scarified in late June. Then, 1
in early July, he sowed 751 b.
wheat with lcwt. super, to
the acre. The crop also
benefited from zinc-sulphate,
sown with the previous crop of
wheat.
Queensland Butter
Overseas
“North”: Queensland butter-
factories lately obtained four
placings and a reserve-cham- {
pionship at the Scottish Dairy 1
Show at Glasgow.
The Oakey factory won first
prize for salted-butter pro-
duced in the British Common-
wealth and went on to win the
reserve-championship. This
factory was also awarded third
place for its entry in the class
for unsalted-butter produced in
the British Commonwealth.
The Clifton factory carried-
off fifth award in this class,
and the Beaudesert factory took
fifth place in the salted-butter
section. Last October the
Oakey factory took first prize
for the best salted-butter
exhibit at the Brit sh Dairy
Show in London, winning the
Overseas Farmers’ Challenge
Cup. In 1958, the same factory
won first prize in the unsalted-
butter class, and third prize in
the salted-butter section at the
Glasgow Show.
The Oakey successes are
attributed to the high-quality
cream produced in the district
and the skill of factory-em-
ployees in grading cream and
manufacturing butter. The
buttermaker has a record of 43
years with the factory, and
this experience certainly helped
to produce the prize-winning
exhibits.
Oakey is the centre of some
of the richest dairying-country
in the State, and farmers grow
large acreages of fodder for
their milkers. The awards
prove that their daires are con-
ducted on most hygiehic lines;
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(3/3/’60)
Queensland may have poor rains during April, apart
from heavy falls in the north coastal and Peninsula areas
and moderate rains in the central and south coastal districts.
Reasonably good rains are indicated in the south-east
quarter during May, with good falls in eastern Queensland
during June.
N.S.W. may expect poor rainfall during April, although
there should be moderate falls on the coast. However, good
general rains are indicated for May, but with heavy falls and
serious flooding in coastal districts and on the Southern
Tablelands and South-west Slopes. Good follow-on rains
are likely in June.
Light patchy rains are likely during April in Victoria,
although good seasonal rains are indicated for May, followed
by another period of moderate patchy rains.
South Australia should receive moderate rains in the
agricultural areas and on the west coast during April, with
good seasonal rains in the agricultural areas during May.
Rainfall may be light in the interior.
Western Australia may have only poor rainfall during
April, apart from moderate rains in the south-coastal
districts. There should be moderately good rains in the
agricultural areas during May.
LENNOX WALKER.


It’s NCWf It’s Unique!
.... it’s a muy/
fitted with the speedy ‘TILt-ITE*
Kerosene Pre-heater!
MODEL X 359
Lights in a minute. 1 ]
No torch or bottle
required !
■jlf Self-contained. The
“Tillite” uses kerosene
from the container!
The “Tillite” prevents
over-pumping—it acts
as a safety valve !
It’s simple it’s fool-
proof— and that’s
dinkum !
3OO brilliant candle-
power light!
•ft Stormproof—in fact
TILLEY!
ASK FOR IT AT YOUR STORE •
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores throughout Australia. In case of
difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
1092 Mount Alexander Road, Essendon, Victoria.
cream produced in dirty con-
ditions cannot produce high-
grade butter.
Credit must be given to the
Agr ic u 1 tural Department’s
dairy-officers who insist that
dairy-regulations are followed
to the letter, and also give
valuable help to dairymen who
try to improve their herds and
properties.
Pineapple Seale
“Mulga”: Pineapple - scale
(Diaspis bromeliae) is generally
found in dense colonies on
sheltered portions of the plants.
The females of the species
are covered by a greyish-white,
opaque, circular scale, about
l/16in. across; the male's
covering 'is smaller, rectangular
in shape, almost white, and
marked by three longitudinal
ridges on the upper surface.
The small yellowish eggs
hatch-out in less than a week,
and the young scales soon
crawl away in search of feed-
ing-sites. When established,
they shed their limbs and begin
to secrete a protective scale.
Both insect and scale grow
until the adult stage is reached,
which happens after about two
months during warm weather.
The female, once attached to
the leaf, never moves from that
position, but the male emerges
from its cover as a tiny winged
insect, mates and then dies.
Several generations occur dur-
ing the year.
A heavily infested pineapple-
plant takes-on a light-grey,
scurfy appearance and,
although seldom killed outright,
becomes weak and stunted. Its
foliage dies, and any fruits
produced are small and
shrivelled.
The pest generally appears
in ratoon-fields, on suckers and
fruit shaded by leaves. The
ground-suckers in the centre of
the rows are usually most
heavily infested. Young
plants with open growth and
leaves exposed to sunshine are
rarely attacked.
The best way to control the
pest is to dig-up and burn all
infested plants as soon as they
are noticed. The scale spreads
slowly and is usually confined
to a few plants at first, so it’s
easy to destroy it if immediate
action is taken. Spraying with
white-oil emulsion at a strength
of one part of oil to 40 of water
will kill the insects, though
they are difficult to reach,
because they liye in sheltered
portions of the plants. A
great number are likely to
survive the operation, and, in
a few months, the pests will
again reach plague-propor-
tions.
When planting suckers, ex-
amine them carefully for
signs of scale, particularly if
they come from outside
sources.
Dairy Accidents
“Ruddigore”: A few com-
monsense precautions can
avert accidents in the dairy-
shed, langing from minor to
serious. ,
The room which houses
engine or electric-motor,
vacuum-pump, belts, counter-
shaft and pulleys should always
be kept locked when in use.
To make doubly sure fit a wire
guard around the engine and
pump to protect children who
may open the door and wander
among the moving machinery.
Protect countershafts by box-
ing them in with timber or
metal. This cover and the
guard round engine and pump
should be easy to remove if
necessary.
A metal guard along moving
belts and pulleys will protect
children's fingers, long hair or
loose clothing from damage by
the parts in motion.
Many engines, especially old
ones, throw oil, which can
make the concrete floor very
slippery. This can be prevented
by attending to leaks and
spreading around the engine-
block a bag which can be
removed as soon as the engine
is turned-off.
A very smooth finish to
milking-shed floors looks at-
tractive and is easily cleaned,
but can be costly if it’s the
cause of heavy falls and broken
limbs.
The separator can be also
dangerous. The milk-filled
bowl, spinning at high-speed,
develops enough pressure to
bend a 4in. steel rod.
The nut holding the bowl
together wears with use until
its threads become thin and
sharp; the threads are then
liable to strip and allow the
bowl to fly apart. Besides
severely damaging the separa-
tor, the flying metal can cause
very serious injury. The bowl-
nut should be replaced at the
first sign of wear. A new one
doesn’t cost much.
Skim-milk pumps should be
installed so that the cog-drive
is not exposed to areas where
people are working. Cogs can
get entangled with loose cloth-
ing and injure the wearer.
Always stop the pump before
attempting repairs or adjust-
ments. It may save a hand
from being lacerated or a
finger crushed.
Where block-and-tackle is
used to hoist full cans of milk
in and out of the dairy refriger-
ator the beam to which the
hoist is attached should be
strong enough to carry the
weight of a full can, and
should be securely fixed to the
framework of the shed. Too
often beams are lashed to wall-
plates by a rope or wire.
Should this snap under the
weight of a can of milk the
damage to refrigerator—and
operator —may be serious.
Water-boilers should be
securely covered with a hinged
lid and fitted with a tap so that
water can be drawn off. If
boiling water is ladled out,
make sure the dipper or ladle
is fitted with a handle made of
some material which does not
conduct heat.
Above all, keep youngsters
out of the milking-shed. You
can’t milk cows and watch
kids at the same time. It’s too
late to do much when their
fingers are jammed in a V-belt
or their clothing is wound
round a spinning flywheel.
Crosscuf
“Pollster”: At the 19th pro-
duction-sale of Circle M Ranch,
Sanatobia (U.S.A.) a quarter-
interest in C.M.R. Rollotrend
sth was sold for 80,000 dollars
—a new world record for Poll
Herefords and setting a re-
markable standard in value for
a bull. C.M.R. Rollotrend sth,
by C.M.R. Rollotrend and going
back to the outstanding cow
V.V. Bonnie Burton 3rd, had
an impressive list of show-ring
winnings during 1959. He was
the grand-champion bull at the
International Show (Chicago)
and at the American Royal in
Kansas City, and reserve cham-
pion at the National Poll Here-
ford Show and Sale at Shreve-
port.


Between
Ourselves
\\-4
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GRAHAM PETERSON (or PATTIN-
SON) late of 72 Cascade Street Pad-
dington in the State of New South';
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that TERENCE'
WILLIAM O’NEILL has filed a Petition!
for Divorce against YVONNE ROSEMARY
O’NEILL No. 851 of 1958 on the ground
of adultery citing you as Co-respondentj
If you wish to defend you may enter an,
appearance in the Divorce Registry;
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by;
Ist April 1960 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from BRIER-
LEY, HODGE & CO., Solicitors, of 126
Phillip Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 401 of 1960.
TO RONALD EUGENE HOLMES late of j
46 Loftus Street Fairfield in the State
of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE'
that PATRICIA BERTHA HOLMES has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 401 of
1960 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 16th May 1960 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MADDOCKS COHEN &
MAGUIRE, Solicitors, of 38 Martin
Place, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE HENRY GRANT formerly
of Hargrave Park.—TAKE NOTICE that
HAZEL HELEN GRANT has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce in Suit No. 4145 of
1959 on the ground of desertion without,
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie:
Street Sydney by the 26th May 1960 and!
obtain a copy of the Petition without]
charge from MESSRS. JOHN B
NORTON RICKARD & SYMONDS Soli
cjtors, of 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney!
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
The Psalmist of the Dawn, by
Mary Marlowe. —6955.
Book of poems by Tom Quilty.
—6956.
With Mystics and Magicians in
Tibet, by A. David Meel. Origin-
ally published by John Lane. —
6954.
Information Sought
Who was the first to measure the
distance between sun and earth,
and moon and earth, and when ?
(From the Government Astrono-
mer) : The distance of the moon
was first determined by Aristarchus
from observations of eclipses in the
3rd century b.c. The method he
suggested was used by Hipparchus
in the 2nd century b.c. to obtain
a much-improved value of the dis-
tance of the moon which has,
therefore, been fairly well known
since *that time. Aristarchus also
suggested a similar method for find-
ing the distance of the sun, but
it was quite unsatisfactory because
the sun is so much more distant.
In 1671 a fairly good estimate of
the distance of the sun was found
by the French astronomer Cassini,
from observations made by himself
and Richer and Picard. The dis-
tance he determined was 87,000,000
miles. The distance now accepted
is 93,000,000 miles.
* * * *
When was Melbourne’s Museum
of Applied Science founded ?
General details of exhibits, etc. ?
Known until 1944 as the Indus-
trial and Technological Museum,
the institution was founded in 1870
under the control of the trustees of
the Public Library. Initially the
collections were housed in a build-
ing which had been built in the
library grounds for the 1866 exhibi-
tion ; mining and other models in
the National Museum were trans-
ferred to it. In 1893 a special
hall was put up in the same grounds,
and the collections were displayed
there until 1899, when the hall was
utilised for the Natural History
section of the National Museum.
After being • stored, the collection
was put in a part of the new
library building and reopened to
the public in 1915. Collections and
displays cover all aspects of applied
science. They are grouped broadly
into three categories —primary
industry, secondary industry and
public health. Other sections dis-
play plant varieties and diseases
(mainly presented as wax models),
ships and aeroplane models, and
arms, clocks and watches. The
museum is administered for the
Government by a board of seven
trustees.
* * * *
How much tallow does Australia
produce, and what are the markets
for it ?
Australia’s production of tallow,
from beef and mutton, is in excess
“Little less soda this time, old man."
of local requirements; a consider-
able quantity is exported. In 1954-55
and 1955-56 respectively factory-
production of edible tallow was
507,480 cwt. and 1,336,960 cwt. A
further quantity, probably about 10
per cent, of total production, is
made in places not classed as
factories. Queensland produced
about half of the edible tallow
made in factories; N.S.W. and Vic.
each about a third of the inedible
tallow. It is principally used in
the manufacture of soap and
candles, and by wool-scouring and
chemical works. Factory-consump-
tion was 1,191,730 cwt. in 1954-55
and 1,211,690 cwt. in 1955-56. In
the same two years exports totalled
20,780 and 47,880 tons respectively,
chief markets being the LJ.K., India
and Pakistan, Far-Eastern countries
and Egypt.
* * * -*
Meaning and origin of the
phrase ‘‘fourth estate”?
The conception of the “three
estates of the realm” (now usually
understood as being the Lords
Spiritual, the Lords Temporal and
the Commons) as the great divisions
of legislative authority led in Eng-
land to .the coining of the phrase
“fourth estate” to indicate some
power of corresponding magnitude
in the State distinct from them.
Fielding thus spoke of “the mob,”
and Hazlitt of Cobbett; but the
phrase is now usually applied to
the press, a usage originating in a
speech by Burke.
• • • •
When were the Australian Mints
established ?
The Mint in Sydney was opened
in 1855; Melbourne, 1872; and
Perth, 1899. These were branches
of the Royal Mint, London. The
Sydney Mint produced distinctive
coins from 1855 to 1870 —the
reverse was inscribed “Australia”
with “Sydney Mint” aboye and
“One Sovereign” below. For the
first two years the head of Queen
Victoria was unadorned, but from
1857 a wreath of waratah encircled
her head. In 1871 the gold coinage
became identical with that of the
Royal Mint, except for a small
Mint mark “S” (later “M” for
Melbourne and “P” for Perth).
On the reverse both the “St.
George and the Dragon” and (for
coins to be used in India) the
“Shield” designs were struck. On
the obverse the “Jubilee” bust of
Victoria appeared in 1887, and in
1893 the “old” or “veiled” type.
The portrait of Edward VII was
first used in 1902. Sovereigns and
half-sovereigns were the main gold
coins minted, but some £5 and £2
pieces were also struck in 1887 and
1902—they are now very rare.
Imperial bronze coins were first
issued at the Sydney Mint in
1868; silver coins in 1879.
Brief Answers
W.R.P.: The secretary has not left
herself or the committee open to
a criminal charge. She has, how-
ever, been,guilty of a serious fault
in performing her duty EJ.S.:
Whether honorariums are income
for the purpose of income-tax
assessment depends on whether the
person receiving them receives them
with such regularity and from such
similar sources that they cease to
be a mere payment of appreciation
and become true income. Whether
such earnings should be included
in income would depend in each
case on the particular facts, because
income may not be disguised
merely by calling it something else.
J.P.B.: If the fence between
your property and the property
next door needs repairing, the
owner next door can, by proceedings
before a magistrate under the
Dividing Fences Act, make you
contribute to half the cost of repair
—not of half the fence but of the
whole fence. The fence must be
there unless there is some reason
why it should not be, because the
Act states that the owner of land
is entitled to have his land fenced.
You can have put up any style ot
fence which is reasonable, having
regard to the nature of the land
and to other fences in the neigh-;
borhood... ,D.M.T. V : (1) £2250.
(2) Pensions are affected by property
and income. Invested capital would
be regarded as property, so that
the interest would not matter. (3)
The method of valuing is a matter
for the department. It may vary
from investment to investment.
(4) His entire income (in this case,!
his entire property) would be con-
sidered. (5) Except where a hus-
band and wife are legally separated,
each is regarded as owning halt,
of the property of both —even it
only one is a pensioner, or is
applying for a pension—so that it
an applicant had the full amount
of £2250 the wife would be unablei
to have any property at all. The'
wife would be able to have an
income of £3 Bs. 9d. a week....
“Lester”: Paint with a white oil-
paint. Before it’s dry, brush all|
over with a short stiff brush in a
stabbing motion to give a stippled
effect. If a second coat of paint
is needed, treat in the same way.


THE HOLLIDAYS
“And if it's of any interest to you, her vital statistics are 42-36-44."
New Recordings
Faith and Franz
'T'he quality of stereophonic
reproduction continues to
improve, but the subject-matter
used is sometimes a bit of a
puzzle. It is getting hard to
differentiate between skilful
playing and playing which
merely exploits the glories of
stereo. After all, a drum may
sound thrilling on stereo, but
it’s still a drum on any sort of
monaural recording.
Therefore one tends to ap-
proach Percy Faith’s Viva: The
Music of Mexico (KLLS 575)
with a certain reserve, and
Philippe Entremont's playing
of Liszt’s Concertos Nos. 1
and 2 (KLCS 2702) all the
more pleasurably.
The Liszt recording is in-
finitely preferable —both for its
absence of extramusical gim-
mickry and for its better and
more substantial content —to
Faith’s swooping violins, clack-
ing castanets, guitars, etc.
From a technical point of view,
though, both these Coronet
disks are as good examples of
stereo recording as this listener
has heard.
Talking about the guitar,
it’s a pity Faith doesn't let you
hear more of it. True, it does
a spot of jangling in the first
number, “Granada,” but not
for long. As in the monaural
Version, “La Cucaracha” is
probably the pick of the bunch.
Others at or near this level are
“Chiapanecas,” where you can
snap your fingers in appropri-
ate spots; the rolling “Be Mine
Tonight” and “Mexican Hat
Dance”; and, second in in-
terest only to the cockroach
song, “Zangunga, Jesusita en
Chihuahua,” in which there is
a lively beat and (wonders!) a
sort of brassy fugue arising out
of the catchy little theme.
But Faith shares with the
celebrated Mantovani a short-
age of appreciation for finely
turned soft playing, so that,
quiet passages totter with
emotion. He doesn’t go quite
as far as the average cinema-
organist, who apparently can
never play softly without ex-
tracting shovelfuls of bathos;
but, whether or not Faith is
simply trying to make the most
of the stereo process, he does
a bit of sugar-piling, most
notably in “Estrellita,” “La
Paloma” and, to a slightly
lesser extent, in “Solamente
una Vez.”
In the two Liszt concertos —
the First in E Flat, and the
Second in A Major—pianist
Entremont is backed by
Ormandy and the Philadelphia.
In Liszt’s hands, the solo in-
strument declaim s—-often
fiercely, at all times brilliantly
—against an orchestral back-
ground of relatively thin in-
vention. In fact, Liszt wants
little more from the orchestra
than agreeably subservient
sounds. In the First Con-
certo there is no preamble:
the orchestra gives out the
sullen, short theme, and a few
bars later the piano springs in
with bravado flourishes. It is
exciting in a curiously dis-
passionate way: it is not a
concerto of integrated patterns
argued solo-tutti, but an ex-
position of a theme, padded
with relatively thin orchestra-
tion. In one sense it is mono-
thematic, but it lacks the tight-
ness, brightness and ingenuity
of, say, Mozart’s “Haffner”
symphony, the first-movement
of which says about all that
can be said in monothematic
writing. This music demands
a topnotcher as soloist; and
Entremont—who is to tour
Australia for the A.B.C. this
year—obviously revels in it.
The Second Concerto opens
with a romanticised ecclesiasti-
cal theme, developed and em-
broidered sometimes bom-
bastically—by the soloist. Like
the other concerto, it is virtu-
ally a symphonic poem, each-
change of tempo merging into
the next, and a large theme or
idea constantly recurring. It
will repay the listener more
generously than the other con-
certo—for one thing, there is
less bottled anger and more
depth of feeling.
Technically, both concertos
come over well in stereo: plenty
of width and depth to the
listening-area, the piano re-
soundingly clear at all times;
and the Philadelphia Orchestra
is, as usual, excellent.
A.W.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
T.N.J.: Much too heavy-handed.
P.B.: The sea-creatures will
have to go elsewhere... .H.H.:
Too long for a sketch; too loose
for a story... .R.D.: No space in
the orchard for that cherry-tree.
. ...8.N.: It seems faintly improb-
able, to say the least... .L.G.: You
could say all that in a paragraph.
W.S.M.: Best to study some
elementary grammar.... Leonie :
Some nice imagery. An occasional
Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.
Claims which state the
section in which paragraphs
appear and the date of
appearance will be paid more
promptly than those which
don’t.
trite line tends to spoil it
D.L.: Can’t let you get away with
that old, old story N.D.:
Shorten it, then put it away tor
a few years to mature.. . .0.5.: It
would be better said in prose—
or even not at a 11... .E.R.: An
alarming discovery. Keep it to
yourself B.B.: It can be reduced
to a perfectly triangular shape
S.W.: Try it as a TV-script....
M.D.: An Australian setting would
be better D.F.E.: You’re still
in the grip of circumlocution
EN.: The beatniks wandered out.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
It’s time to talk about hair-styles now.
The newest French hairdressing designs
have arrived in Sydney and were shown
at a parade at the Royal Blind Society’s
reception-rooms last week, little more
than seven days after they were first
seen in Paris.
Among women there are two schools
of thought regarding hair-styles. School
A says, in effect: “When you’re on to a
good hair-do, stick to it.” Once the
adherents of this theory have found the
style that suits them they wear it relent-
lessly down the nights and days and
years.
This is easy and economical. But is it
wise? Adherents of School B say:
“No! You must be adventurous. A
new style gives you a ‘lift,’ an old one
dates you more than anything, except a
hat. What if the new styles don’t suit
you! They suit your clothes and put
you in the modern picture. Before very
long you’ll find yourself adjusting your-
self to the way you do your hair, and
you’ll be moving with the times!”
Omens are that School B is likely to
carry the day, especially in the matter of
the colored rinse. It’s so easy to tint
your hair blue-grey, then rose-grey, then
rose, then sunset-glow. Then the step to
midnight-blue is not so far, deep-purple
another step and, voila! your hair is
merged into some such color as “pea-
cock’’ without your suffering a single
qualm.
The colors shown at the parade last
week included “jacaranda-mist,” which
looked just like its name ; rose-princess,
a lovely soft reddish color ; and roval-
purple, where dark hair showed violet
glints in the right light.
Novelties included a hair-style called
Leopard, in which dark tips and strands
were patterned on blonde hair; and
Rainbow, where strands of cerise and
blue nylon-hair were introduced to make
a pattern in dark hair.
These shining strands of colored nylon-
hair are an important feature of the new
styles, one very striking arrangement
including emerald strands entwined with
platinum-hair.
As for the styles themselves, they are
high at the top to match the new high
hats, the sides flat and the back swept
smoothly into soft feathery lines to the
back of the neck. Curls and rolls are
out. Even in the front the hair is set in
swathes rather than waves.
For the evening, glitter is sometimes
sprinkled all over the hair, jewels added
(often at centre-front), and nylon-hair
arranged into an ornament which matches
the hair exactly.
It is all very exciting and rather
unsettling to School A, but the manne-
quins at the parade assured one that the
styles were easy to do “the next day.”
They just have to be brushed out and
will last well for three days K “especially
if they have been set in beer.” That’s
what they said.
Lois Marshall, lyric soprano, who is
the first Canadian singer to come to Aus-
tralia for an A.B.C. tour, will appear as
soloist in some of the major country
centres. She will be at Bathurst on March
31, Albury April 5, Wagga May 3,
Tamworth May 6, Newcastle June 15
and Lismore June 17. Miss Marshall was
born in Toronto . Canada, of Scottish-
Irish parentage, one of seven children,
and began her musical studies at the
Toronto Royal Conservatory of Music
when she was 12. She has sung in the
great music-centres of the world and with
the greatest conductors including Tos-
canini, Barbirolli and Beecham. Miss
Marshall will be soloist with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra at the subscription-
concerts beginning March 28. Her final
Sydney appearances will be on June 21
and June 23.
A family-party at the opening-night,
of “Moby Dick” at the Elizabethan
included Mr. and Mrs. J. N. Kirby with
their two sons and daughters-in-law, Mr.
and Mrs. Kevin Kirby and Mr. and
Mrs. Raymond Kirby. Also present were
Mrs. Tom Bateman with her daughter
Roselind, who has just begun her Arts
course at Sydney University.
Mrs. Bateman earlier in the week had
presented a cheque for nearly £3OOO to
the Mater MisericOrdias Hospital, money
raised by the hospital’s ball-committee
of which she is president. The ball, by
the way, will this year be held on Wed-
nesday, June 15, at the Trocadero, and
will be called the Harlequin Ball. Mrs.
Lloyd Lewis (artist Florence Broadhurst)
is taking care of the decor, which
promises to be something special.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Gough Whitlam, whose husband
was elected deputy-leader of the Federal
Labor party during the week, is a
Sydneyite, the only daughter of Mr.
Justice Dovey and Mrs. Dovey, of
Vaucluse. Interested in the work of the
Red Cross particularly, she was com-
mandant of the V.A.D. at Sydney Uni-
versity, where, as a Social Studies student-
she met her husband, then studying law.
An athlete of some note, she was Aus-
tralian breaststroke-champion and swam
in the Empire Games in Sydney in 1938.
The Whitlams live at Cabramatta and
have four children —three boys and a
girl.
☆• ☆ ☆
One of' Sydney’s most highly-
experienced women-executives, who
recently retired from the bustle of busi-
ness-life, is Miss Rita Foott, for the past
10 years Service Manager for Broad-
casting Station 2UW. In this job she was
responsible for channelling all the
advertising from sales to presentation
and was, of course, particularly well!
known to members of the advertising
world, who gave a cocktail-party in her
honor at Adams’ Hotel on her retirement.
Miss Foott has seen radio grow ini
Sydney from its very beginning, for she
began work as a young girl at Paling’s
in 1920 and went over to 2UW when
that transmitting-station was reorganised.
She has been 39 years in the business
and knows about as much as anyone
possibly could in its advertising and
service angles. In private life Mrs. Victor
Upton-Brown, she now lives at The
Entrance, where she plans to live a life
of leisure.
V #
Noted a new little fashion creeping in
—the use of the new plastic-flowers for
bridal-bouquets. Their great value is,
of course, that you can keep them for a
souvenir, and during the very hottest
part of summer, when fresh flowers are
at a premium, they can save the day.
The florists who make-up some exquisite
artificial-flower bouquets nevertheless
recommend fresh flowers for the posies
(bride’s mother, etc.). The plastic ones
do not seem to be soft enough for a
small spray.
☆ ☆ ☆
A pyjama-race is to be a feature of the
Florida Fiesta, a barbecue and swimming-
party arranged for next Friday, March
18, by the Town and Country Committee
for the Smith Family. This event always
causes a great deal of fun, as it is a relay-
race and the long-legged pyjamas have 1
to be donned as the various members
take over. Scene of the party is the
harborside home of Mrs. W. Macßae, of
Vaucluse. Tickets can be obtained from
Mrs. Colin Wise (Bellevue Hill), whose
phone number is FM 5701.
☆ ft ☆
Torch-Bearers for Legacy will benefit
from the wonderful aquatic-carnival and
water-ski display being organised by the


Dolphin Water Ski Club at Narrabeen
Lakes on Sunday, March 20. To quote
their programme: “You will see Aus-
tralian men and women in exhibition-
ski-ing, clowns on the jump, speedboat
races, bath-tub derbies, ‘Gelignite’ Jack
Murray, kite-flying thrills and spills
galore.” Seems worthwhile, especially
as it’s for Legacy!
MELBOURNE
For the Government House garden-
party, bright sun and a mild breeze made
conditions just about perfect for the wear-
ing of late-summer-early-autumn clothes
—and smart ensembles were to be seen
in profusion. Recent rain had brought
a verdant touch to lawns and flowers
to the beds, so that the big gardens had
never looked better. Lady Brooks was
a delightful figure in her frock of white
silk patterned with a small black motif ;
the skirt was full, the bodice cut on shirt-
lines. Her wide-brimmed hat was of
fluted white organdie. Lady Oliver, wife
of the U.K. High Commissioner, chose a
tent-coat of deep-blue raw silk made with
a deep shawl-collar and wide cuffs
finely ruched; her small white cloche
was massed with pastel-flowers. An
iridescent-blue silk-shantung suit and a
circlet of tulle in two tones of blue were
worn by Mrs. Henry Bolte, wife of the
Premier. Lady Herring, wife of the Chief
Justice, favored soft hydrangea-blue with
a hat in matching tones. A slim-fitting
frock and bolero of navy silk were worn
by Lady Casey with a high-peaked cloche
in matching blue.
Among the many guests were Air-Vice-
Marshal A. L. Walters and Mrs. Walters
(she in full-backed coat of French-blue
faille and a circlet of gold leaves); the
Consul for Japan and Mrs. Nomoto;
French Consul Mons. Le Bas de
Plumetot and his wife; Philippines
Consul G. C. Molyneux and Mrs.
Molyneux; Dr. W. Scarfe and Mrs.
Scarfe and their sons Antony and
Robert; the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. Bernard Evans)
and their daughter Margot.
Lovely hats were a feature of the day.
Mrs. W. K. Burnside’s toque was of
deep-brown curled ostrich-feathers ; Mrs.
Timothy Cousens wore a picture-hat of
black ostrich-feathers ; a miniature busby
of pale-beige feathers was worn by Mrs.
Margaret Saker ; a high turban of corn-
flower-blue tulle, slightly tilted to one
side and finished with blue roses, was the
choice of Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh.
# # #
Lieut.-General Sir William Oliver, the
new U.K. High Commissioner, and Lady
Oliver were guests-of-honor at a cocktail-
party given by the U.K. Senior Informa-
tion Officer, Mr. R. I. Hall, and Mrs.
Hall in their Toorak home, which was
decorated with bowls of early-autumn
flowers. It was the first official visit of
Sir William and his wife to this city, and
they hope to find a house which they will
make their Melbourne headquarters.
Their daughter Rosemary is studying the
piano at Sydney Conservatorium. Lady
Oliver Wore with her slim-skirted frock
of deep-mushroom-pink satin patterned
with leaf-shaped appliques a mink
stole. A softly-flaring black velvet frock
with a deep collar was chosen by Mrs.
Hall. Among those at the party were
U.K. Senior Trade Commissioner H. F.
Stevens and Mrs. Stevens. Mr. and Mrs.
G. J. Husted, Mr. and Mrs. Geoff de
Fraga, Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Tebbutt,
Sir John Jungwirth and Group-Captain
J. Pelly-Fry, R.A.F.
Educated at the C. of E. Girls’
Grammar School, Sandra, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Shipton, of
Toorak, is a tennis-player whose ability
has carried her into Victorian and Aus-
tralian Championships. Sandra (whose
telephone number is 50 2334) is one of
the ticket-secretaries for the Leap Year
Ball to be held at the Royale Ballroom
on March 30 to aid the Ramsay Mailer
Opportunity Club for which the energetic
Wool Ball committee works. Other
ticket-secretaries are Anne Neville-Smith
(WF 7662) and Trish Christian (50 4947).
Tickets are 30s. each. John Warlow
photo.
One of the most interested spectators
at a hat-parade organised by the Toronto
Club for St. Vincent’s Hospital funds
was the Mother Rectress of the hospital.
Held in the spacious and tastefully-
decorated drawing-room of the nurses’
home, the parade was followed by
morning-tea. Mrs. L. R. Buxton, the
only woman-member of the hospital’s
board of management, was present;
her daughter, Mrs. John Teague, is presi-
dent of the Toronto Club. The model-
hats shown were by Herta Maria New-
house. Committee - members present
included Mrs. John Duncan, Mrs.
Francis Galbally, Mrs. D. Ryan, Mrs.
G. C. Molyneux, Mrs. D. Hemingway,
Mrs. Peter Kiernan, Mrs. Francis Nagle,
Mrs. David Schlicht, Mrs. R. G. Wallace
and Barbara Coleman,
The Royal Melbourne Hospital and
St. Vincent's Hospital will share proceeds
from the gala-performance of “The
Music Man” given at the Princess
Theatre. The Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, and the Governor of W.A., Sir
Charles Gairdner, were in the audience,
and 'also in the official-party were the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and
Mrs. Bernard Evans). They were W'el-
comed by the president of the Royal
Melbourne Hospital auxiliaries, Mrs.
R. W. Chambers, and the president of
St. Vincent’s Hospital auxiliaries, Mrs.
L. R. Buxton, assisted by Miss Annie
Danks, Mr. Buxton, and Mr. and Mrs.
Garnet Carroll. Pink cai ions pat-
terned the smoke-grey brocade gown
worn by Mrs. Chambers. A full-length,
full-skirted gown of deep-green-and-black
muted-floral taffeta was chosen by Mrs.
Buxton. Also in the official-party were
the president of St. Vincent’s Hospital
board of management, Sir Norman
O’Brien, and Lady O’Brien ; and the vice-
president of the R.M. hospital, Sir
William Upjohn and Lady Upjohn.
# # #
Another gala-performance of “The
Music Man” was for mentally-retarded
children for whom the Robin Hood
committee works. Mrs. James Alston
received the official guests who comprised
Chief Justice Sir Edmund Herring, Lady
Herring and their daughter Margaret,
Scottish visitors Sir Robert and Lady
Maclean, Sir Frederick and Lady
Thomas, Sir Charles and Lady Lowe, and
Health Minister Mr. Cameron and Mrs.
Cameron.
i? J? JJL
Lady Brooks attended the showing by
Ronald Bernarde of hats in his Autumn-
Winter Collection in aid of the 1960 Red
Cross Appeal. Held in the Bamboo
Room at Chevron, it drew 250 women.
Other official guests were Mrs. Eric
Cottrell (who organised it), Mrs. Henry
Bolte, Lady Mayoress Mrs. Bernard
Evans, Mrs. John McCallum (actress
Googie Withers), Mrs. Stanley Korman
and Mrs. John McMahon. In the audi-
ence were Dame Mary Daly, Mrs. Ross
Shelmerdine, Lady Selleck, Mrs. L. J.
Dooling, Mrs. John Carrodus and Mrs.
S. G. Aarons. Ticket-secretaries were
Mrs. George Laurens, Mrs. Frank May
and Mrs. H. B, M. Vose.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Budapest Hungarian Ballet Com-
pany, launched at a goulash-party given
by Betty Stewart at the 57 Club Theatre,
comprises Hungarian migrants and
includes several principals from the
Budapest Opera. The goulash was the
real thing, made and cooked by members
of the company. Guests were welcomed
by Betty and the founder and choreo-
grapher of the company, Kalman
Solymossy, and prima-ballerinas Victoria
Biro and Maria Palfia. Other principals
are John Farkas, Lui Mersits and singers
Katalin Futsek and Lazio Sennit. There
was dancing and singing at the party,
and among the guests were Monica
Sheffield and William Carr, who are
directors of the 57 Club Theatre.


FESTIVAL
★ ★ ★ BOOKS
THE SUNNY SOUTH
Presenting South Australia
With over 70 colour and more than 150 black-and-white photographs, supplemented with
an up-to-the-minute text, THE SUNNY SOUTH presents the story of the growth and
development of South Australia without wasting a word.
160 pages, 9|in. x 7in., printed on art paper, and bound in cloth, with a colourful dust-
jacket. 45/-
THE SOUTHERN FESTIVAL
Over one-hundred individual contributions by more than forty different authors, including
Nancy Cato, Sir Douglas Mawson, Rex Ingamells, Max Harris and Rohan Rivett.
The eye-catching colourful contemporary jacket encloses 256 pages, Bfin. x s|in., of the
finest collection of South Australian literature ever published in the one volume. 25/-
MODERN AUSTRALIAN PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
At last! A comprehensive volume on a major scale, covering all the important Australian
painters and sculptors.
52 full colour reproductions and 33 black-and-white plates, biographical notes on artists,
88 quality art paper pages, 10|in. x fully bound with board and crash canvas cover,
and a superb four-colour laminated cellophane jacket £5/5/-
HENRY KENDALL
A critical appreciation, with brief biography and outline of the poet’s life by the world
authority on the subject of Henry Kendall—Dr. Thomas Thornton Reed, Bishop of Adelaide.
This new book contains 90 pages, including three of illustrations, and is bound in a
distinctive limp cover. 6/9.
Published by RIGBY LIMITED.
Available from All Booksellers
by an uproar in the house next-door,
the denizens of which were in a high
state of panic over a fairy which had
taken possession of three young girls
who were sleeping together. The fairy
was described as being a tiny child,
only a few inches high.
Another haunting was described to
them in these terms by a man —a chief
of some tribal distinction: “I saw
three fairies flying across the sand.
There were two men and one girl.
One of the men was an old fellow with
a beard. They were flying through the
air. I was an angry man—l wanted
to fight them. Some of the women
tried to hold me down, but I pushed
them aside and fought the fairies till
I squashed them.”
Again, some young hysterical men
chased a ghost with fish-spears. They
said they could see the ghost . . .
But gathering evidence today of the
universal nature of psychic phenomena
is no more than adding to the mass
of instances already recorded. No one
doubts the reality of some of the
manifestations, and the accent of in-
quiry now shifts to their cause. The
assumption that hallucination has any-
thing to do with it has no validity. A
phantasm is a thing seen at a fixed
point in space from its observer. A
mental image impressed on a hypno-
tised subject can be projected out-
wards and seen as a reality by the
subject. To assume that these are
purely mental illusions is as fatuous
as assuming that a camera-lens can
project the pictorial image of a film
on vacancy. There must be a screen
of some sort on which the image may
be temporarily transposed.
Radio energy can explain the tele-
pathic exchange of messages across
space from one mind to another; but,
as yet, science does not know on what
connective matter radio wave-lengths
travel. Hypnotism is in the same
predicament. A hypnotist may know
how he induces the hypnotic state, but
he does not know precisely what
mechanism is at work. Today schools
of “hypnotherapy” have been estab-
lished in England and America, but
as yet they, have got no further in
understanding the physical nature of
hypnosis than the old Austrian doctor,
Mesmer, from whom the term mesmer-
ism is derived, and who experimented
so successfully with the anaesthetic
and curative aspects of hypnosis that
the jealous medicos of his era had him
suppressed as a charlatan. Today
their successors are meekly picking-up
the treatment where Mesmer left it.
And at least Mesmer did advance
a rational theory to account for
hypnosis. This was the assumption of
a fluid substance, which he called
“animal magnetism,” which penetrated
all other substances, including the
human body and, under certain con-
ditions, was visible. Change the term
“animal magnetism” to that of “radio
energy” and it is clear that Mesmer
was still ahead of present-day experi-
menters in understanding how the
bridge between the hypnotist and his
subject was generated.
It seems clear enough today that, if
this thesis is to be factually demon-
strated, the hypnotherapists had better
call-in experts in radio mechanics to
assist in trying to locate the mysteri-
ous connective matter, and possibly
divine the principle by which extra-
sensory perception is responsive to it.
N. L.
Wallace Stevens
Reviewing Wallace Stevens’s “Col-
lected Poems” one was at a loss to say
anything sensible about so many
beautifully printed pieces that didn’t
seem to mean anything. But with
Opus Posthumous, edited with an intro-
duction by Samuel French Morse
(Faber), a thought as tenuous as one
of Stevens’s poems emerges: he was a
“gifted amateur.” When, says Morse,
Harvard University asked him to be
Charles Eliot Norton professor (of
poetry) for 1955-56: —
Stevens declined with great regret
because he did not wish to hasten
his retirement from the Hartford
Accident and Indemnity Company.
In most remarks on his life and art
there is this reference to his being a
businessman:—
Himself a man of real energy and
great discipline, he assumed that
other writers ought to be able to
solve the problems of making a living
and carrying on their real work at
the same time. He thought poets
ought to be paid for their work,
but he was always willing to send
a poem to a magazine even though
the magazine could not pay....
That sums-up most contemporary
poets; but with Stevens one can only
feel that he was lucky in having a
solid job from which to enact the
exquisite philosophical poet; it was a
game of which he knew all the poses.
The essays on poetry, on Marianne
Moore. William Carlos Williams, John
Crowe Ransom, etc., have all the rarity,
precision, grace and quiet assumption
of superiority of T. S. Eliot advancing
to a brilliant analytical point—only
the point isn’t there. The pages of
aphorisms, “Adagia,” are of embarras-
sing banality:—
Society is a sea. Aristotle is a
skeleton. All men are murderers.
God is a postulate of the ego. One
reads poetry with one’s nerves. Life
is the reflection of literature....
On and on they go, a literary even-
ing in the suburbs, but reassuring to
the student, because they encourage one
to perceive that Stevens’s garb of
curious poetry is a disguise for the most
ordinary ideas. Paraphrasing (without
acknowledgments) Verlaine, he says
“Poetry must resist the intelligence
almost successfully.” In his early days,
in “The Emperor of Ice-cream,” Stevens
seemed to be obeying Verlaine’s dic-
tum that the poet should be a little
out of key; and in the suite, “Peter


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE
CECIL HADGRAFT
The first comprehensive critical guide to the century-and-a-
half of Australian writing. The author is senior lecturer in
English, University of Queensland 35/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
Try This Adelaide Festival Literary Quiz
Q.l: Who is called “the founder of
Adelaide"?
Q. 2: Who has just written a new biography
of him?
Q. 3: What's its title?
Q. 4: Who published it?
Q. 5: What’s its price?
Now check your score
A.l: Colonel William Light, 1786-1839.
A. 2: Geoffrey Dutton, author of a novel, two
volumes of poetry and three travel books, at
present Lecturer in English Literature in
the University of Adelaide.
A. 3: Founder of a City, a very readable narra-
tive, well illustrated and fully documented
and indexed, available at all boofshops.
k.i. F. W Cheshire, 338 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, notable publishers of Australian
literature.
A. 5: 42/- for a highly entertaining, very informa-
tive, and beautifully designed volume of 340
pages and nine pages of plates.
Quince at the Clavier.” he found pretty
effects for a hazy narration of the
story of Susannah and the Eiders. But
most of the rest of his work “resists
the intelligence” far too successfully:
he is the archetype of the “gifted
amateur” feted, showered with
literary prizes, sumptuously bound,
hailed by the London “Times” as “the
best poet writing in America.” he has
achieved everything but poetry itself.
R. McC.
Montgomery Speaks Out
In An Approach to Sanity (Collins).
Field-Marshal Montgomery has
collected three articles he published in
the London “Sunday Times” and his
two 1959 Chichele Lectures at Oxford
into a booklet of 94 pages.
His conclusions are that fear holds
both Communists and free nations
from starting a direct nuclear war. but
that Russia will never accept a united
Germany armed with nuclear weapons
and siding with the Western powers.
So. he argues, “it is illogical to tiy and
solve the German problem without
first solving the European security
problem.” He also thinks it illogical
to ignore the East German Govern-
ment and to assume that the true
Government of China is in Formosa.
The aim he proposes is twofold: we
should work for a united Germany in
a free Europe and seek to gain the
friendship of China. Above all. he
calls for unity and leadership among
the Western nations.
Reviewed Briefly
Dorian Williams (son of Colonel
V. D. S. Williams, who is interna-
tionally known in the equestrian
world) is an accomplished 8.8. C. and
TV show-jumping commentator with
four ruling interests in life —fox-
hunting, TV, adult education and
Shakspeare. Pendley and a Pack of
Hounds (Hodder and Stoughton) is
his autobiographical description of a
successful attempt to fulfil all his
enthusiasms. Directly Pendley Manor
in Hertfordshire, family-seat of the
Williams for four generations, was
“derequisitioned” after War 11, he took
it on as a centre for adult education
and embarked on a continuous
struggle to keep it going financially.
He ran courses for foremen, police-
men, potters, Masters of Foxhounds
and everyone in between. He is
interesting on all his subjects but best
on fox-hunting—he was Joint Master
of the Grafton and is present Master
of the Whaddon Chase.
♦ • • *
Soviet Space Science: Ari Shternfeld
(Hutchinson). Translated from the
Russian by the U.S. Air Force Techni-
cal Documents Liaison Office, this is a
sober and authoritative account of a
subject usually treated somewhat
luridly. Shternfeld is a prominent
Soviet space-scientist and his book
was originally published in Russia
under the title “Artificial Satellites” —
Willy Ley remarks in a foreword that
through semi-popular works of this
kind the average Russian citizen has
been kept much better informed about
rocketry and space-travel than the
American. Remarkably readable for a
scientific writer, Shternfeld has no
doubts whatever about the adventures
in space that lie ahead—“ From one of
the ships converted into artificial Mars
satellites, nine astronauts will land
on the surface of the planet by means
of a glider” . . .
0 9 0 9
A Day Off: Storm Jameson (Mac-
millan), Two short novels and four
short stories written between the years
1932 and 1958. They are angry stories,
mostly, the anger mainly directed
towards war and bloodshed. The style
in the earlier years is blunt and
unadorned with the author pausing
now and again to shake a didactic
finger. In the others the narrative
flows more smoothly, though the
author’s apparent antagonism to
marriage and her sympathy for faith-
less wives comes out so frequently as
to be monotonous.
* ♦ • *
Love for a King: Andrew Graham
(Geolfrey Bles). This short and
carefully-produced little book is an
offering in tribute to the idea of king-
ship. Around the death of an ancient
and revered monarch in a sunlit Medi-
terranean country Andrew Graham
has painted a series of word-pictures
which re-create the ceremonial beauty
and the emotional tone of the occasion.
The simple, elegant style, the delicate
and precise descriptions are in perfect
harmony with the purpose and mood
of the book.
* m m m
The Ethical Idealism of Matthew
Arnold: William Robbins (Heine-
mann). Arnold has survived chiefly
as a poet anji a literary critic, but in
this temperate and scholarly book Pro-
fessor Robbins presents him as “in
many ways the most modem” of the
Victorian religious writers: “The crux
of Arnold’s case was that in the
modem age, with a truly scientific
spirit displacing pseudo-science, it was
becoming impossible to base religious
faith upon proofs incapable of demon-
stration, having at the best ‘a low
degree of probability.’ What could be
demonstrated, or verified, was the wit-
ness of life itself, of all the produc-
tions of man’s spirit, to the operation
of the moral law, of the power making
for righteousness.”


m&nX7..
W ALKER PROCESS
(lARIFLOW THICKENERS
dflK
%
mi
4E
!*►
id
Bi
* In
*- :fi
I
&
:r
Armco's compact and efficient clarification plant, with
chemical mixing at left followed by flocculation and finally
clarification. Equipped by Walker Process with Rapid-
Mix unit, four vertical F. S. flocculation units and two
CLARIFLOW Thickeners.
ARMCO SAVES WATER
RECLAIMS OVER 10 MGD!
By reclaiming over 10 MGD of waste water
Armco's Clarification Plant at Middeltown,
Ohio assures an adequate supply of cooling
and process water for its steel mill operations.
Walker Process CLARIFLOW Thickeners
installed in two tanks 80'-0" dia. by 15'
s.w.d. handle 6000 gpm each, and are
designed to operate at twice this rate under
overload conditions. In addition to water
conservation, the CLARIFLOW units permit
reclamation of approximately 20-40 tons
per day of iron rich scale.
Engineering and manufacturing knowledge,
plus experience gained on a variety of
industrial waste treatment problems is
offered to help solve your next project.
Write for literature.
Manufactured under Licence by
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY QUEENSLAND, AUSTRALIA
Interstate N.S.W.: Alfred SnashaU Pty- Ltd., 500 Kent Street, Sydney
Agents: Vic-: Thomson & Carroll Pty. Ltd., 792 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
S.A.: Mining Supplies (S.A.), 622 South Road, 1 Edwardstown
