

The Bulletin
European Trade Line-ups and Australia --page 36
Wednesday, January 27, 1960
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Kegistored in. Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"One more turn, Skirl, and well have you an even fan all over."


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
"McLEOD AND HIS MOB"
Since little is generally known about
Don McLeod and the co-operative
movement he helped to start among
the aborigines of Westralia’s north-
west. the sight of his name in the list
of characters at the front of Donald
Stuart’s Yandy (Georgian House)
arouses considerable interest an
interest which the book only partly
satisfies.
Described on the dustjacket as a
documentary novel, “Yandy” concerns
a strike of aboriginal stationhands in
the Port Hedland district which, begin-
ning with McLeod’s guidance around
1946, spread slowly and painfully
against official opposition and finally
developed into something like a
successful co-operative. The first half-
dozen chapters must rank among the
best Australian writing in years—a set
of rapid and scattered glances into the
lives of several natives, most of them
of only minor importance to the later
development, but all helping to
illuminate the aboriginal character and
the natives’ situation before the move-
ment began. The breaking-down of the
old tribal law by the new whitefeller
law, the resulting uncertainty and fear,
the beauty and terror of the old tribal
customs, the squalor of native life on
many of the stations —all are deftly
established in an atmosphere of diffu-
sion and darkness into which the
growth of the movement later breaks
like hot sunlight.
Once the strike starts the book loses
some of its urgency and compulsion,
becoming a record of struggle, setback,
hope and growth, with the writing
often as monotonous and repetitive as
the events it describes—a continuous
round of meetings, prosecutions, jail-
ings, resolutions, and always the painful
struggle to gouge, scrape and sift a
living out of the old tin-workings and
goldfields where the strikers are forced
to camp—until the last chapters pro-
vide the relief of apparent success
when, again guided by McLeod, the
strikers find a rich field of wolfram.
In his deep concern to show that
the aborigines, given a unifying idea,
can be as firm and resourceful as any-
one else, the author has been unable
or unwilling to make the people who
oppose them anything more than stock
symbols of irritable oppression. This
drains much of the drama out of the
conflict—which is a pity, since the
whites could surely have been made
more real without taking away any
of our sympathy for the aborigines.
Although McLeod figures neither
largely nor vividly in the action, his
presence under his own name raises
the question of how much of the story
is meant to be taken as fact. Naturally
it is impossible to say without special
knowledge; but anyway it hardly
matters, The book’s main purpose is
apparently to show that the co-
operative idea is peculiarly suited to
the primitive clan socialism of
aboriginal tradition and encourages the
natives to work for their own emanci-
pation without losing the best of their
old social customs.
With his obviously wide understand-
ing of aboriginal ways, Stuart brings
this argument through very convinc-
ingly; and it is certainly something to
think about. One wishes he had written
a factual report instead of a novel.
The truth about “McLeod and his mob”
ought to be told. But perhaps we are
too close to the events and the touchi-
ness they must have produced in some
parts of the north-west for this to be
possible. If so, we must make do with
legends and trust that Stuart, in telling
his, has given us at least the half of
the truth that matters. It is a good
legend, and Stuart tells it persuasively.
EVERY NIGHT ABOUT
THIS TIME
Smoke in a thin plume curls against the
blind,
One thin cigar crumbling to ash;
Out in the night a rainy wind
Batters and soughs for love against the
sash.
Now sybils and wild shamans walk
abroad,
Tear up the lawns, sever the wires,
Put leading punters to the sword
And shake our Gothic churches by their
spires.
Yet poets squat alone by reading-lamps,
Tugging upon uneven hair
And, chewing at their pencil stumps,
Gaily seek rhymes for incest and despair.
Such words as love, cried Auden bitterly,
Have in our time been soured, debased,
And knew, for all his flippancy,
The pits and dangers that a world has
faced.
Though history plants the villas in their
shrubs,
Bulking eternally apart,
Late lights linger in the backs of pubs
And couples in dark Fords lay bare the
heart.
VICTORIA.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.
The Durack Family
Mary Durack’s big book, Kings in
Glass Castles (Constable), covers some
of the same ground as Brian Penton’s
“Landtakers,” only it is not fiction, but
the biography of her family. If its
characterisation is not as forceful and
its incidents not as grim as Penton’s,
missing, at it does, the horrors of con-
vict days, its action is much wider,
encompassing the Goulburn district of
N. S. Wales, south-west Queensland
and the Kimberleys district on top of
Western Australia.
Mary Durack’s great-grandfather
Michael Durack of County Galway,
Ireland, was nominated as a farm-
laborer by James Chisholm of Goul-
burn, who had employed his elder
brother Darby Durack. Michael, with
his wife and seven children, were out
of quarantine in Sydney in the middle
of June, 1853; and in August a dray-
load of wood backed over him at
Goulburn and killed him. So his
oldest son, Patsy, went goldmining on
the Ovens River, and made £lOOO in
18 months; and he and his brother
Darby bought land on Dixon’s Creek,
in the Goulburn district.
Patsy, Mary Durack’s grandfather,
married into the Irish family of
Costellos in 1862; and on a visit to
Sydney met Landsborough the
explorer, who so interested him in
south-west Queensland that in June,
1863, Patsy Durack. aged 27. set out
with a party of Goulburn Irish, mostly
related, led by Patsy’s brother-in-law,
John Costello, aged 23, “famed for his
unerring sense of direction.” Out past
Bourke, south of the border, four of
them left the main expedition and
pushed on behind their cattle into a
dreadful drought, were forced to shoot
what part of their stock didn’t die
after being bogged at the Bulloo River,
and just before their last horse was due
to die they shot it and drank its blood,
and then turned back to their depot
on foot.
Yet in 1865 young Costello moved
up with his new wife to Warroo
Springs in northern N. S. Wales; and
in 1867 the Duracks moved up to
Warroo Springs and then, joined by
the Costellos, went on 300 miles into
south-west Queensland, to Mobel
Creek:—
There was John Costello, his wife
and child, his benign old father, his
staunch but irascible mother, his
brother-in-law Jim Scanlon and one
stockman named Jack Farrar who
had stuck to them on Warroo
Springs. In Grandfather’s [Patsy
Durack’s] party there was, besides
his wife and brother Stumpy, two
hired stockmen and the two little
boys, my father and baby Uncle
John. This time native riders helped
(Continued on page 58)


p
r
V?
r
and with it has grown
NATION-WIDE ORGANISATION
For 120 years the name Elders has been closely associated with
every phase of the development of Australia . . . advancing step
by step with the progress of our nation.
From a modest mercantile enterprise established in 1839 in
Adelaide, Elders have grown to a nation-wide organisation with
200 Branches throughout Australia, giving a complete Service
to the “Man on the Land,” covering Wool, Land and Livestock,
Merchandise, Shipping, Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Skin and
Hides, Rural Banking.
Complete Service to the Man on the Land


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 27, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4172
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man ’
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
"CONCURRENT POWERS"
TTHE final report of the Joint Com-
A mittee on Constitutional Review is
a document which every Australian
elector should read, though the Gov-
ernment has made reading it as difficult
as possible. The price is 16s. 6d., and it
is presented in a format which makes
it almost necessary to have a wheel-
barrow to carry it about.
It contains little that was not in
the 1958 report. But apart from the
establishment of House of Representa-
tives control over the Senate, the issues
raised are so wide as to write, in effect,
a new Constitution for the Common'
wealth. Also, for that matter, for the
States, which it is proposed to render
subordinate in many respects by giving
the Commonwealth overriding con-
current powers in matters in which they
now have doubtful powers or none
at all.
The whole trend since the estab-
lishment of the Federation has been
towards the whittling-away of State
authority.
It has to be admitted that the new
Commonwealth of 1960 (whose officials
now are apt to avoid the use of the
term Federation as if it were an
immodest word and to trend, pur-
posely or not, towards socialisation),
is a very different variety of govern-
ment from that which was set-up in
1901 and was to cost the electors each
“no more than the price of a dog-
licence.”
From being a co-ordinating authority
wielding delegated powers in a few
matters like defence and external
affairs, Customs and Excise and
judicial appeals on matters of State as
well as Commonwealth law, it has
become a real nation dowered with a
makeshift accretion of power, but at
the same time lacking complete
sovereignty; indeed, having less
sovereignty and freedom of action all
round than the States, which use it
as their milch-cow and often gang-up
to make its way hard.
It has acquired power through being
the sole tax-collector. Commerce has
given it a say in transport which it did
not have before the two World Wars.
It administers bankruptcy. It has
established itself as a sole director
of air-transport. It controls inter-
state navigation. It has centralised
medicine through its medical benefits
scheme and birth and old-age have
become associated with it through pen-
sions and social services. It has made
entry into the educational field with
the Universities Commission and the
Commonwealth Scholarships. It has a
monopoly of radio- and television-
control. There is a Bureau of Mineral
Resources that vies with State Mines
Departments. It has assumed the
dominating role in research with the
C.5.1.R.0. and in marketing with the
wool and wheat organisations and
other bodies which operate under its
segis. Federal arbitration is all-
pervading, but not all-embracing.
And the new recommendations, if
made practical, will almost complete
the picture and leave the States looking
like Tom Ugly’s parrot —-old and use-
less with not a feather to fly with.
TCfOST people are gradually, by force
1 1 of circumstances, coming to feel
that an integrated nation would be the
product of commonsense, and two wars
have given them a sense of patriotism
towards Australia as a whole and
helped to kill State loyalties. Labor
politics in State Government have done
the rest.'
The committee has done a very
thorough job on concurrent powers.
It finds it “completely illogical to have
the legal power’ divided over naviga-
tion and shipping, a subject which by
its nature is undivided,” and particu-
larly in relation to registration of
ships.
It recommends that the Common-
wealth be given the express power to
make laws relating to civil aviation,
which it does not possess directly at
all, and only indirectly through its
powers over external and inter-State
trade, with an area reserved to the
States covering intra-State flying.
It demands for the Commonwealth
express power to expend money on
scientific research which again is dealt
with by somewhat makeshift, thoiigh
so far unchallenged, devices. It desires
the perfection of Commonwealth
authority over the manufacture of
nuclear fuels and generation and use
of nuclear energy. It wishes to put
beyond doubt the Commonwealth’s
ability to make laws about radio and
television, which are not mentioned
in Section 51.
The most important matters, how-
ever. are those which affect the national
economy as a whole, such as industrial
relations, over which (with Mr. Downer
having reservations and Senator
Wright dissenting) the committee
wishes to see the Commonwealth cast
a wider net with a view to producing
uniformity of wages and conditions in
various centres.
It plumps for Federal power over
corporations and a Commonwealth
Companies Act and power over restric-
tive trade practices, over a specific
marketing-plan for primary producers,
over capital-issues and borrowing with
or without security by private corpora-
tions, over hire-purchase and consumer-
credit, over rates of interest and other
charges on mortgage or. security of
land.
If the recommendations became part
of the Constitution, much that the
Commonwealth is already doing by the
stretching of existing powers, some-
times in a far-fetched way, would
merely be brought within the written
Commonwealth code. But there would
be the new powers also. And there
would not, in fact, be very much of
importance left to the States except to
make their own laws and to supervise
their tottering railways and Socialist
experiments.
Even the power to make new States
would be removed from the province
of State Parliaments if the Common-
wealth desired to act over their heads.
And Section 128 of the Constitution
is offered for amendment by making
it unnecessary to have both an overall
majority of electors and of States to
carry a referendum for Constitutional
alteration —only majorities in half
instead of a majority of the present six
States.
TT seems that if the whole boiling of
A recommendations has to be put to
the electors it will involve a very com-
plicated piece of advocacy. This could
be simplified if the committee were
asked to add to its report an addendum
showing exactly what would be left
to the States after they had been
further overridden.
It looks on the face of the report
as if they will be so naked of substan-
tive power after the Commonwealth
has finished with them that they will
be likely to die of exposure.
Their remaining purposes could
well be carried out by provinces sub-
sidiary to the central Government. A
provincial system might better serve
regional development than the present
unwieldly catch-as-catch-can system in
which the parts are in many respects
greater and more powerful than the
whole, and seven legislatures are often
at variance about the law, so that a man
is likely to be hanged for murder if he
does it a yard inside the South Aus-
tralian border but not if he does it a
yard and an inch away inside the
N.S.W. border.


WILLY-WILLY


PLAIN ENGLISH
Casey
[By "Ek Dum"]
The elevation of Richard Gardiner
Casey to the House of Lords as a life-
peer is a happy and appropriate tribute
to himself and to Australia.
Casey was born —a Queenslander--
with the money of Mt. Morgan and
big pastoral investments behind him;
but he was also a serious young man with
an engineering bent who had a good
practical training in the Technical
School of the Mt. Morgan Company,
of which his father was a director, and
all his life has had a liking for work-
ing at a bench with his hands.
He was a Melbourne Grammar School
boy and afterwards graduated with
honors in mechanical engineering at
Cambridge. At 24 he volunteered (Sep-
tember, 1914) for service in World War
I, and his fluent knowledge of German
marked him out for a staff position with
the dour Bridges. One of his first war
duties was to question the officers of the
Emden. He was at the Landing on
Gallipoli, and came out of the war with
a D.S.O. and an M.C.
After the war he was one of the young
men of means who, during the Bruce-
Page regime, went to the British Foreign
Office for experience, and, during the
seven years he was there acting as Aus-
tralia’s political liaison-officer, he made
lifelong friends of great value to him-
self and the Commonwealth.
As with Brudenell White in the British
Army he was looked upon by the English
as “one of us,” but achieved little more
notice than any other inmate of the
august institution, save that occasionally
he was mistaken for Anthony' Eden.
In 1926 he married the daughter of
Sir Charles (“Plevna”) Ryan in one of
London’s two most fashionable churches ;
five years later (in 1931), he appeared
on the political scene in Australia, and,
without causing much stir, won Corio
in the depression election. By 1935 he
was Treasurer.
He was probably the most imperturb-
able Treasurer the Commonwealth ever
had —R. G. Casey delivering the Budget
on the afternoon when the world was
awaiting the result of Munich was a
vignette for history.
In World War II he really found him-
self when he was sent first to the Imperial
War Conference in 1939, then to Wash-
ington as Ambassador to the United
States. Before long he was British
Minister of State on the spot in the Far
East. The jeers from the Australian
Communists and Labor when he became
Governor of Bengal rang rather hollow,
as he showed himself far above the
average of occupants of that glittering
vice-regal position.
In the post-war era he became a
crusader for a better relationship between
capital and Labor in Australia (now
coming to pass), and from 1951 onwards
he has devoted himself to two objectives
—the rebuilding of Australia’s foreign
relations, which were in a bad state when
he took over, and the development of the
C.5.1.R.0.
Casey has always exhibited a capacity
to subordinate his ambitions in politics
to his determination to get things done.
He has been the “ideas man” of every
Cabinet he has sat in. In the Lords he
will be an invaluable liaison-officer for
the Commonwealth and one of sufficient
standing to make himself both heard and
felt.
Especially since he will always be
primarily an Australian.
Danger-signals Ahead
[From Canberra]
The biggest single problem to confront
the Commonwealth Government this year
will be the growing threat of inflation,
the danger-signals of which are already
glowing a bright red.
The recent Arbitration Commission
decision, granting up to 28 p.c. increase
in margins, has set-off a chain-reaction
totally unexpected by the Government.
The Government had to follow suit
and increased its own employees’ salaries
by amounts ranging from £56 to £775 a
year, with increases of £IOOO a year for
permanent departmental heads almost a
certainty in the near future. It has also
had to apply the increase to members
of the Defence services.
In the private sector of the economy,
the margins decision means a big jump in
costs unless employers can achieve more
productivity per employee. Any sub-
stantial increase in costs of either
primary or secondary products could
price Australia right out of vital exist-
ing overseas markets and preclude her
from entering potential markets in many
areas as yet untouched.
The commission’s decision is certain to
lead to another demand for a substantial
basic-wage increase when the Federal
wage comes up for its annual review
about the middle of this year.
The Commonwealth seems to have
started on the right foot in an effort
to control the spiral by reportedly refus-
ing a special Premiers’ Conference to dis-
cuss the effect of the margins on State
finances. Prime Minister Menzies is
said to have told N.S.W. Premier
Heffron that the new formula for tax-
reimbursements agreed upon unanimously
by the States at the last Premiers’ Con-
ference makes adequate provision for
adjustment of reimbursements in the light
of wage-variations.
This type of strong-handed action will
be necessary throughout the coming 12
months if inflation is not to run riot
throughout the economy. The Govern-
ment’s top financial advisers are con-
cerned at the trend and have warned
Cabinet that it will have to handle the
matter with extreme caution.
With what promises to be a dull
legislative year ahead, Cabinet should
have plenty of time to study ways and
means of controlling the threatening
inflationary clouds. If it wastes that
time the present buoyant Australian
economy could be in a very shaky posi-
tion by the end of 1960.
"Millions of Mugs"
The reaction of politicians and others
in Australia to the propaganda against
the alleged outburst of anti-Semitism
“sponsored by Nazis” seems to be proof
of the dictum of the late Archie
Cameron that the Kremlin’s most
potent weapon against Western civilisa-
tion is not atomic weapons, but “millions
of mugs.”
The mugs have come forward in the
curious way that they can be brought
out only when they are needed to serve
the purposes of the Communist bloc.
They showed no inclination to blaze
with indignation at the Soviet Union’s
treatment of Israel during the Egyptian
crisis ; but let some lout on Christmas
Eve in Cologne draw a swastika on a
synagogue and the whole world rushes
to damp-down the supposed conspiracy
against civilisation. Though why the acts
of a few Nazis against a few Jews should
give rise to such fury when millions of
posters reviling the American and British
and urging them to “go home” plaster
the world’s walls is only understandable
when it is deduced that there is a care-
fully planned and rehearsed propaganda-
campaign in being to stir-up hysteria
on the issue.
The West German Government has
been receiving information for months
that some such campaign was brewing
in East Germany, and is now firmly con-
vinced of the Communist origin of the
movement; it has rooted-out some
agents of East Germany in high places
in the extreme Rightist parties, posing
as Nazis. One of these young gentry
is at present about to face trial for
treason.
The party which is most indignant
today about the resurgence of Nazism
in 1940 was demanding virtual surrender
of the West to an unholy alliance of
Stalin and Hitler, and were circulating
in large quantities a pamphlet by
Dmitrov, head of the Comintern, which
stated that it was “blatant hypocrisy on
the part of the British and French
Governments ,to place the whole of the
responsibility for what was happening
on Nazism.”
It’s On Again
There was an unpleasantly familiar ring
about the comments that followed the
announcement of the Commonwealth
Statistician’s cost-of-living figures for the
December, 1959, quarter. There was the
remark of N. S. Wales Labor Council
president J. N. Thom, who was “very
disappointed” at the 4s. wage-increase in
the State basic-wage indicated by the
c.-0.-l. figures. He had thought “it would
be at least 10s.” Melbourne Trades Hall
secretary J. V. Stout said it meant a
reduction in Victorian workers’ wages
(adjustments are not automatic in Vic*
toria), and A.C.T.U. president Albert


Monk said it provided “further evidence
in support of the A.C.T.U. claim that
the quarterly-adjustment system should
be reinstituted.”
N. S. Wales Employers’ Federation
secretary P. J. Self said the increase in
his State would inevitably lead to higher
prices, and he expected further sub-
stantial c.-0.-l. increases during the year.
Sydney Chamber of Commerce secretary
A. J. Birch forecast “a new wage-cost
spiral” with grave repercussions for those
on fixed incomes.
All these things, or something very like
them, were being said at intervals during
1951-53, when automatic quarterly
adjustments were spiralling the wage-cost
structure at such an alarming rate that
even the recipients of the quarterly
increases realised the futility of the
system and were coming to dread the
three-monthly announcements. Only
New South Wales now applies the index
automatically, but as the Commonwealth
Arbitration Commission now seems com-
mitted to an annual adjustment of the
basic-wage and the A.C.T.U. has already
put in a claim for a substantial rise the
likelihood of either wages or costs
remaining steady seems remote. The full
impact of last year’s basic-wage increase
is still to be felt and that of also the 28
per cent, increase in margins granted late
in the December quarter.
The Arbitration Commission now bases
its wage-fixing on the capacity of industry
to pay, but it has no accurate machinery
for determining this capacity, and at
present wages seem to be increasing at a
faster tempo than productivity. It seems
that we are once again in for the unnerv-
ing, spectacle of wages-chasing-costs-
chasing-wages, etc. And, unfortunately,
no amount of admonition from our poli-
ticians is likely to have any effect, since
they themselves set the example by the
size and timing of their salary-gift to
themselves only a year ago.
Australia (and Other) Days
Melbourne’s Australia Day enthusiasts
deserve praise for their tenacity. For
years now they have been trying to con-
vince the public that Australia Day
should become a truly national day of
celebration similar in character to
America’s Thanksgiving Day. And for
years the public has shown no interest
whatsoever.
Despite this, the Australia Day people
press on, each year announcing plans
for bigger and better celebrations. Main
trouble in establishing Australia Day as
an event is that by Government decree
the public holiday is always held on
the following Monday. This, of course,
gives most workers a three-day week-
end break, and they are too busy enjoy-
ing themselves at out-of-town beach-
resorts to give a thought to the purpose
of the holiday.
Undeterred, the Australia Day Council
has now announced plans to combat this.
In future it wants not simply an Aus-
tralia Day, but an Australia Week. This,
possibly, is aimed at cashing-in on the
popularity of other “weeks” —Health
Week, Made in Australia Week, Be Kind
to Animals Week, etc.
The secretary of the Australia Day
Council, A. J. Gairns, said: “Our plan
to have an Australia Week is meeting
with wonderful support. It is now up
to the public to get behind it.”
It always was up to the public, of
course.
Meanwhile, new plans for Melbourne
Cup Week have been outlined. (No lack
of public enthusiasm here.) A floral
festival, fashion-shows and a mardi gras
(French for “carnival”) have been dis-
cussed at top level.
The director of the State Government
Tourist Development Authority, Mr. J.
Harkins, said: “Melbourne should be
a flower-bedecked city at Cup-time.”
Premier Bolte said: “If visitors come
here for the Cup we don’t want them
to be disappointed in Melbourne.”
Japan Rebuffs Peking
The intimidation of the Japanese Gov-
ernment, which the Chinese dictators
were alleged seven years ago to have
planned for 1960 as a joint operation
with Russia, has obviously not worked
out very well.
The Peking Government has made
vehement attempts through its under-
ground in Tokyo to oust Kishi, the
Japanese Prime Minister, and to lay the
foundations for a Japanese-Soviet-6/oc
trade-agreement on the most tempting
terms; but the result has not been re-
warding to the organisers.
The shooting of rockets over Japan
has had even less effect, and when
some thousands of Japanese Communist
students, of whom, like Australian uni-
versities, the Japanese universities have
many choice specimens, demonstrated
furiously against Mr. Kishi’s departure
to Washington to sign a firm security
pact with the United States, the kempei
merely put on their steel helmets, reached
for their favorite fire-hooks and shooed
the youngsters home. The aerodrome
was quiet when the Prime Minister left.
But Peking was not.
The angry voice of the Deputy
Premier, Comrade Li Hsien-men, was
heard warning Japan about “this
extremely grave step aimed at encircling
peaceful China and the Soviet Union,”
and telling a delegation of visiting East
Germans that this was all part of the
“false peace and genuine war policy of
the United States.” He said it called for
action by the world forces of peace to
“strive persistently and tirelessly to
frustrate the aggressive and expansionist
activities” of Uncle Sam and his war-
mongering Allies.
However, Mr. Kishi flew on, and on
January 19 President Eisenhower said
that the United States and Japan had
established an indestructible partnership
with the signing of the new pact.
Under the treaty, both countries agreed
that an attack on either party in terri-
tories administered by Japan would be
considered as a threat to the peace and
safety of both.
It provides for the maintenance of
U.S. forces in Japan, but for consultation
before the U.S. can make any major
changes in their deployment, equip them
with nuclear weapons or use any forces
from their bases in the Japanese zone in
combat outside the treaty area.
The whole scheme is a consolidation
of the treaty of 1951, signed when the
Occupation ended. The U.S. is now
fully pledged to defend Japan if an attack
is made on its territories. It is
adjusted to meet the fact that Japan is
now a member of the United Nations,
and a clause has been written into the
treaty providing for economic co-opera-
tion on Atlantic Treaty lines, and is in
accordance with U.N. statutes.
When the treaty has been ratified it
will remain in force for 10 years and
then indefinitely.
Fair warning has, in fact, been served
on China that Japan is not to be
intimidated, is not joining the Communist
bloc, and has thrown in its lot with the
West.
Maltby and Seaweed
Victoria’s dapper, smooth-talking Pub-
lic Works Minister, Sir Thomas Maltby,
gave Melbourne bayside councils a
tongue-lashing recently about their dirty
seaweed- and litter-strewn beaches.
Sir Thomas, who looks like actor
Clifton Webb and has the same acid
turn of phrase, started his working-life
as a pit-boy and ended up a wealthy
businessman. He’s not afraid to lead
with his chin.
But, it seems, he stuck his chin out
a trifle too far this time.
He said the Public Works Department
had beach-cleaning equipment lying idle
and that no council was interested in
hiring it.
The other day 20 Melbourne do-
gooders hired the equipment and set
to work on a very dirty section of St.
Kilda beach.
They slaved away for five hours in a
temperature of 100 degrees. But they
made little impression on the mess.
It was obvious to the perspiring
workers why the councils hadn’t
bothered to hire the bragged-about
equipment. It wouldn’t work.
The seaweed was too heavy for the
rake, which fits behind a tractor, and
the rake-prongs would not sweep-up
broken glass and other litter that make
Melbourne beaches probably the most
unattractive in Australia.
Bayside residents pointed out that the
seaweed menace had got much worse in
recent years since giant breakwaters were
built to protect boats anchored near
popular yachting-clubs.
These people claim that the dead sea-
weed is swept ashore in high seas, but
can’t get out again because of the break-
waters.
Twenty tons of dead, rotting seaweed
were removed from one beach recently.
And this was hardly scratching the sur-
face. The breakwaters, of course, were
built by the Public Works Department.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T*eauty salons are not what they
used to be. . Gone are the cosy,
curtained-off cubicles where the female
seeker of glamor could let her hair
down while she had it done-up, to the
delight and interest of any other cubicle
occupant who didn’t have her head
stuck in a deafening drying-helmet or
was not confiding similarly to her own
attendant. Instead there are wide-open
spaces; an overwhelming expanse of
plate-glass, wall-size mirrors, blazing
lights, contemporary furnishings dotted
profusely with unrelaxed women on
spindly - legged chairs staring dumbly
into the mirrors of matching spindly-
legged tables ; only the very hardened
daring more than an occasional remark
about the weather or a surreptitious
glance at the grub-to-butterfly trans-
formations around them. At such a dis-
appointing public appearance, which
lasted an hour, the only remark I heard
was from one attendant to another:
“See that woman in pink going under
the dryer? She’s just back from America
and complaining because she’s tired.”
She wasn’t tired, poor thing, simply
frustrated. Do these people know what
they are doing to women’s inhibitions?
—“Louise.”
■>s<•
“Tom Trout”: Watched a shedful of
London taxi-drivers interviewed in an
English TV-programme. “Who,” asked
the interviewer, “are the best tippers?”
In unhesitating unison came the answer:
“Prostitutes and Jews.” “And the
worst?” With equal speed and agree-
ment the response came: “Australians
and Indians!”
*** *t+
“Sister Ellell”: On a very hot day I
was waiting for some petrol at a filling-
station. I noticed an old hoodless bomb,
“ Goodness! Mr. Mac Steel, you're crying!"
and at the wheel sat a very attractive*
lass. The proprietor of the station said
to her, “Now don’t get her too hot,”
and with a slap at its backside, he flipped
out of the back seat a cardboard L
attached to two strings, which flapped
in the breeze, and she choofed-off. He
then came over to me, and said, “They
don’t make them like that any more.”
I replied that I had a great affection for
that very model, as I had done my first
courting in one just like that. He laughed,
and said, “I went for my honeymoon in
that car ; and that’s my daughter!”
“Sanasi”: In 1918 on the Western
Front I, with thousands of other Diggers,
was interested in the makeshift materials
Fritz was using—common steel, with a
wash of gilding-metal, for brass
cartridge-cases, and steel springs and
a strip of leather for pushbike tyres. The
word ersatz was not then in the vocabu-
lary of the common soldier. During the
August pushover I collected a bed-sheet
of paper, and found that Fritz’s sand-
bags were made of brownpaper “string.”
A week ago I shopped in Brisbane and,
returning home, found that the string
around my parcel was rolled from a
lin. strip of light-brown paper.
❖ *> ❖
“Baksac”: Although I've never quite
understood why the Myrts and
Daphs in bus and train miraculously
become Miss Brown, Miss Smith and
Miss Jones when they address one
another behind the counter, I’ve
gradually educated myself into accepting
the fact that the modern shopkeeper
earnestly desires to be known by his
Christian - name. Yesteryear’s “Golden
Bell. Confectionery and Refreshments.
Prop. D. Smith” has become “Don’s
Milk Bar.” “E. Whatsername, Fruiterer”
has been painted-out for “Tess’s.” And
“The Capitol Cafe” is now simply
“Joe’s.” But I was still unprepared for
the ad. in our suburban rag: “If you
need— Dough come to Flo —Ourtown
Loan Office.” It’s all very bewildering ;
not only have we reached the familiarity
of Christian - names in our temporary
financial embarrassments, but Uncle has
been pushed out by Auntie!
SYDNEY BACCHANTES
“Dr. Andrew Ivy, of the International Com-
mittee for Prevention of Alcoholism, said he
had never seen so many drunken women on
the streets as in Australia.”
“Record water-consumption caused wide-
spread shortages at the Sydney suburbs of
Newport, Avalon, West Pymble, Lindlield and
Berowra.”
Round the streets of Sydney the drunken
matrons reel.
Lager in the lounges, and claret with the
meal,
Whisky neat and brandy neat, and never
a cup of tea —
What a sight for visiting teetotallers to
see !
But husbands out at Newport, West
Pymble and Berowra
Preserve complaisant smiles while Dr.
Ivy’s face grows dourer:
“Our wives are drunk in Sydney ? You
say that this is sinful ?
Try and see it our way, Doc; we hope
they get a skinful:
“They’re fust home-loving matrons, they
haven’t got psychoses;
They’re leaving us the water for our
lawns and for our roses-;
The sacrifices they have made entail their
being jivey,
And if they drink for flowers and vines,
then why abstain for Ivy?”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


C. M. Guiney: Macquarie Street
(Sydney) was a lovely street in past days.
Colonial architecture, buildings of
Hawkesbury sandstone, green strips of
lawn with surrounds of palms, enchanted
the day for a quiet stroll. The quaint
familiar laugh of the jackass in early
morning was a signal for breakfast for
you as well as for him. Now, in early
morning, one hears the caw-caw of the
crow, or the somewhat pleasant singing
of birds of Asian origin. This may have
some significance: It is now an exciting
street to stroll along upon your journey
of a few hundred yards. Loud blasts
of dynamite-explosions, pregnant ladies,
who seem unconcerned, crossing trucks
which wait until the last moment to
apply brakes, lend noise and color to
the scene. One meets here friends and
strangers. A New Australian politely
says, “Sir, where is Pitt Street?” You
reply, “Walk to the bottom of this hill,
and there is Pitt Street.” He replies,
“Sir, I do not understand English very
well. I have only one bottom, what shall
I do?” You reply in basic English and
he departs with his own accompaniments
to Pitt Street. Another few yards and
you meet an old friend. “Greetings,”
you say; “the ploughman homeward
plods his weary way.” He says, “We will
feel better in the morning.” With a “Deo
gratias” we part company, but better for
the meeting. One more explosion hurries
us along our once-pleasant Macquarie
Street.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: During the late lamented war
when Liberty-ships were taking food to
the British Isles an American officer
worked-out that his ship was carrying:
6000 barrels of dried-eggs; one year’s
work for 229,137 hens.
6000 barrels of dried-milk; one year’s
work for 2783 cows.
16,522 cases of evaporated-milk; one year’s
work for 304 cows.
14,500 cans of pork; meat from 5021 hogs.
16,800 boxes of lard; fat of 27,632 hogs.
6061 sacks of flour; wheat from 838 acres.
26,111 cases of canned vegetables; equal to
40 acres of tomatoes, 100 acres of
snap-beans and 102 acres of peas.
To load that ship, he said, took the
produce of 3824 average American farms.
❖ ♦♦♦ *
“Sister Ellell”: The Old Grey Mares
were having a gem-in-amber for the New
Year. There was general regret that
one of the funniest lasses in the Second
A.I.F. wasn’t present. I thought I knpw
all the anecdotes about her but one of
the crowd came up with a fresh one.
“She used to bunk above me going over
to the M.E. She always went to bed in
her corsets and clutching a roll of that
most necessary paper, in case of ship-
wreck! Her prayers she said aloud,
always ending with, ‘Please God, let me
be buried a Presbyterian and not a
Methodist.’ So we asked her why she
worried about that, when her religion
was on her meat-ticket. ‘That’s the
trouble,’ she wailed. ‘When I was filling
in the enlistment papers I could spell
Methodist but not Presbyterian!”’
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pudden”: It is strange that modern
mothers regard nicknames with horror
“Yes, Alice, strange as it may seem, these ARE inter-State business-associates
—from our Adelaide office”
(B. 6/1/’6O). I had “Harold” inflicted
upon me, a most unsuitable handle,
which was promptly changed to
“Pudden” the day I started school. Mum,
no doubt filled with remorse at the
shocking thing she had done to me, made
no attempt to quash the new monicker,
and “Pudden” I became, at home as
abroad. Today, startlingly close to 50
years later, I still proudly bear it. Still,
there were times when Mum did revert
to the Christian-name she had per-
petrated. When the second course was
about to be served-up she invariably
addressed me as “Harold.” She objected
to the repetition in: “Will you have some
puddin’, Pudden?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Metax”: Since Princess of Tasmania
has been bridging Bass Strait, Speckites
living near a public highway have been
able to spot among the passing cars
one a minute for 25 consecutive minutes
.each with a mainland number-plate.
“Tabba”: Homo sapiens is no better
than monkeys when it comes to gim-
micks. For a long time pubs up our
way have carried on their counters
bottles for donations to a Townsville
crippled children’s home. A few weeks
ago the Subnormal Childrens’ Associa-
tion introduced to the pubs an appeal-
box in the form of a glass tank with
two coin-slots in the top. Under the
slots is a plastic treadmill with gaily-
colored paddles, which is turned by the
weight of coins dropped through the
slots. In every pub this appeal has
already gained more than the Towns-
ville home. Moreover, when donors
drop their pennies in (nearly always
pennies because they give the wheel a
good kick) bets are taken on which color
will stop at the top.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ *
“Mutton Jeff”: He works in the bush,
but when he comes into the city two
or three times a year he has plenty of
friends. He solved his Christmas-card
cost - problem by bundling the three-
dozen or so in one parcel and sending
them off at a cost of Is. 3d. They were
duly received at the pub at which he
stays in the city, and, as requested,
handed over the bar to his friends, one
by one, as they came in.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Snips”: Mart and Tiger had won
a lot of money in the last war with
their crown-and-anchor board and now
reckoned they would put it into a pub
in their former suburb. The enterprise
was killed at the outset, despite the sales-
man’s inducements —Tiger was all for
the idea until Mart said, “We’ll havp
to rip off all that wallpaper and put up
slate.”
❖ ❖ *t*
“Barwon”: Ray Mitchell’s article,
“Bob Mackie, Individualist” (B. 6/1 / ’6O),
took me back 18 years to Bathurst Camp
where as NX’s we sweated it out together
in an Intelligence-school. There we
worked together on “Camp Pie” —Bob on
the jokes and illustrations; I on the
foreword and a poem called “Heritage,”
which I still think had its moments.
In between, we discussed international
politics, metaphysics and the quality of
the canteen beer. As impecunious
privates we collaborated on a camp
Christmas-card which sold like hot cakes,


and Bob’s inventive mind developed an
illustrated envelope depicting a soldier
dragging an enormous kitbag within the
outlines of which a name and address
could be writen. We parted brass rags
soon afterwards; Ito the R.A.A.F.,
and Bob to Army Education, which
must have been a species of penal servi-
tude to a man who strongly disliked
regimentaion of his thoughts and move-
ments. We haven’t met since, but I still
have a tattered copy of “Camp Pie,” and
also a head-portrait of myself, above a
diminutive khaki-clad body, done in five
minutes one night by Bob. Thanks, Ray,
for stirring a very pleasant memory.
Hi, Bob!
❖ *> ♦♦♦
“Murray Swagman”: “Abdul” Guest,
so called because of hjs swarthy color
(B. 30/12 / ’59), was said to be of Balkan
descent. One of the yarns about him
was that a patrol arrested him on
Gallipqli as a suspected Turkish spy and
took him before a captain who used
to travel on his train. “And were you
spying for the Turks when you were
“You re a Customs-officer! How romantic! You must know
all about snuggling!”
driving trains?” the captain asked.
Having a beer with Abdul in Duckboard
House (Melbourne R.S.L. Club) I asked
him if this was true. His reply was
typically Abdullian: “They tell a lot of
bloody lies about me in this club,
Digger,” he said, “but at least half of
them aren t true!
* *
“Rangitaiki”: The 16-year-old daughter
of a family who spent their Christmas
and New Year holidays at crowded
Day’s Bay (N.Z.) had received a valuable
ring for Christmas. Two days later it
was missing. They searched everywhere,
especially in the sand. They advertised,
offering a reward, but there was no
reply. Six days later mother scraped
away the packed sand from the plastic
studs on her four-year-old daughter’s
sandals—the ring was firmly wedged
around one of the studs.
“Peter Simple”: One way and another
“Billy” Hughes’s hearing-aid (B.
30/12/’59) seems to have caused a lot
of fun and excitem ent. I saw, and
heard k in action the d the Minister
for Information (Sir Henry Gullett) pre-
., , u v , .. ( •
Slded over a broadcasting-conference in
th .f Cabinet * oo ™ in f
's/ookes vice carmanof the
ookes ’ vice chairman ot the
“C., who was hard of hearing, sat
at the bl § table where the hearing-aid
was it over his ears
a £ d be B an , * ddlm S J lth , the . c , on ' r ° ls :
Billy must have a damn sight better
ears than I have if he can hear with
that thing,” he whispered to me as he
flung it onto the table. An attendant,
sensing Brookes’s difficulty, crept up
behind him, fixed the earpieces correctly
and then crept away to switch on the
current. Brookes had turned the control
to full-volume—there was a loud wail
which made everyone think Brookes had
received an electric shock. “Take the
damn’ thing away!” he hissed as he
tore the instrument from his ears and
flung it half across the room. The
attendant retrieved the headset, Brookes
cupped both ears with his hands as was
his custom, and the business of the con-
ference proceeded,
* * ***
“Sunray”: How many people wear
their bottom-tatts? Fitted with an
auxiliary set with two on each side to
even up the gaps in my lower jaw, I
struggled with the things as per instruc-
tions. The dentist said, “You’ll get to
the stage when you feel you can’t bear
them another moment. Just get over
that, and you’ll have no more trouble.”
They made me tired, those teeth. I
persevered, thinking that every low period
must be the time I’d been warned about,
but still they bothered me. There were
long periods when I forgot they were
there, bait if tiredness set in, it always
started in the jaw. I know my sister
never wears hers —they sit in a floral
cup in the bathroom cupboard and are
only worn on the rare occasions when
she goes to the dentist. Other friends
say: “But why do you wear them? I
never wear mine.” Well, do you?
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Sackfair”: N.S.W. traffic-authorities
have got down off the fence and given
their blessing to trafficators, but my
mate won’t share the enthusiasm unless
his improvement is added, an amazingly
simple invention, the essential part being
a large pin which protrudes inside the
vehicle and makes contact with the
driver’s person all the time the trafficator
is trafficating." Only by this means, he
contends, will other drivers be saved
anguish over whether the bloke ahead
really intends to make a turn or the
light is merely the forgotten residue of
a turn made three miles back.
GLAMOR AND GASTRONOMY
“We have health-laws which are rigidly en-
forced as to restaurant-cleanliness. Yet
nothing is done to control another health-
menace—the practice of smoking and of
women using face-powder, etc., in public eating-
houses.” —Letter to a Sydney daily.
It’s clear one must vote
This a snivelling note
From a cross-grained and petulant
whiner
Who quite fails to see
That cosmetics can be,
With gaspers, 'delights to a diner.
Oh, there’s nothing like weed
To embellish a feed;
And I fail to see how it could harass
Any man holding a fork-
ful of apple-sauced pork
To get strong whiffs of “Evening in
Paris.”
Dehydrated steak,
Which perforce you partake
Of, will seem much less grinders-
resistant,
When Joan’s dial she dusts
(And your victuals she crusts )
With a powder-cloud, strongly per-
sistent.
And why disagree,
And a caviller be,
If bright-blood-red lipstick she dips at ?
Porterhouse, underdone,
You will conjure up, son —
And something that you’ll smack your
lips at!
Whether bold or demure,
She who does her coiffure
At your restaurant-table, don’t brand
rough !
She just thinks she’s at home
When she wafts from her comb
To your soup a good half-ounce of
dandruff.
In the coffee you sip
A long fag-ash she’ll flip
(As if she’s conferring a favor).
Don’t, then, get off your bike
And an attitude strike —
She might be improving the flavor!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


He Launched "The Bulletin." Which Turns 80 Years Young on January 31
Archibald of Kildare
By L. J. BLAKE
IF you consult Percival Serle’s
Dictionary of Australian
Biography you will learn
that John Feltham Archi-
bald who was variously
referred to after his death in
1919 as Jules Francois, James
F. and John Francis—was born
on January 14, 1856, at Kildare,
“a village near Geelong.”
James R. Tyrrell, in Old
Books, Old Friends, Old
Sydney, quotes a letter which
the “three-initialled terror,”
A. G. Stephens, had from
William Macleod in which it
was stated that Archibald, The
Bulletin’s founder [with John
Haynes] and first editor, was
born in Warrnambool in 1858.
Thus Macleod quoting Archie’s
account of his own origins.
His birth-date has been given
variously as 1856, 1857 and
1858. His father. Joseph
Archibald, has been variously
declared an Englishman, an
Irishman of Scots extraction,
“a Peninsular War soldier who
came to Victoria from England
in search of gold,”
“a scholarly man”
and/or an Irish
police-sergeant.
Several papers
in the Mitchell
Library refer to
Joseph Archi-
bald’s experience
in the Peninsular
War, but these
must have been in
some pre-natal in-
carnation. The
war lasted from
1809 to 1814:
Joseph Archibald
was born in Dublin
on November 18,
1823 (whether or
not his birthplace
was the suburb of
Clontarf I do not
know). About
seven miles to the south-west
of Dublin one crosses into the
County of Kildare.
From 1853 to 1862 Senior
Sergeant Archibald was
stationed at Geelong (Vic.),
where, oddly enough, Kildare
police-barracks once stood. As
Geelong, even in those be-
nighted days, had its own public
hospital, it seemed to me
extremely unlikely that Char-
lotte Jane, Archie’s mother,
would travel as far distant as
Warrnambool for her accouche-
ment.
Imagination seems to have
outweighed factual evidence
concerning Archie's youth.
One point of certainty is that
his father's name was Joseph
Archibald. From the archives
of the Public Library of Vic-
toria and records at Police
Headquarters, Melbourne, some
part of Joseph’s story can be
traced.
TThe Irish Constabulary was
established by Sir Robert
Peel, who in 1829 organised the
Metropolitan Police Force,
London. The Catholic Eman-
cipation Bill of 1829, which
Peel sponsored, gave to
Catholics right of employment
in the public service.
So it was that, aged 19,
Joseph Archibald, sft. 7in. tall,
brown-haired with hazel eyes
and fresh complexion, joined
the London Police Force. He
was a Catholic. After 10 years’
service, during which his
efficiency earned him the rank
of sergeant, he resigned, late in
1852, to become a recruit, with
52 others, for the Victorian
Police Force.
On July 1 of the previous
year Victoria had become a
separate State from New South
Wales and had, within a few
days, been confronted with the
problem of gold-discoveries.
By year’s end the flood of over-
seas migrants and time-expired
Vandemonians had begun ; by
1852 newcomers streamed in
at the average rate of 250 a day.
And lawlessness became a
commonplace. The “Argus’’
(September 7, 1852) reported:
Crimes of the most fearful
character and degree abound on
all sides; the roads swarm with
bushrangers; the streets with
burglars and desperadoes of every
kind. In broad daylight, and in
our most public streets, men have
b<»en knocked down, ill-used and
robbed, and shops have been in-
vaded by armed ruffians.-
With thousands of men
deserting offices and shops for
the goldfields, Victoria had
stern need of the English
policemen.
Joseph Archibald’s record-
card shows that he joined the
Victorian Police Force, appar-
ently in London, on December
7, 1852, and was promoted to
sergeant three days later. In
January Superintendent Henry
Pewtress, aged 26, and the 29-
year-old Irishman embarked
51 London bobbies in the Earl
Grey at Plymouth. They sailed
for Australia on the 14th.
One week after the Earl
Grey reached Melbourne (May
2) Archibald attended the
Police Office, a bluestone build-
ing next to the unfinished Town
Hall. Both he and Pewtress
signed-on officially that day.
Shortly afterwards, promoted
now to senior-sergeant, Archi-
bald was notified of his transfer
to the town of Geelong, 45
miles away.
Tt was not long before his
A Geelong colleagues apprised
him of the exploits of Sgts.
Cahir and Wallace, who, the
previous Christmas Day, had
routed the district bushranger,
“Captain’ Melville, out of a
Malop Street house and chased
him to the town swamp. Here
Constable O’Connell had cap-
tured the woman - betrayed
bushranger.
Geelong, as the nearest port
to Buninyong and Ballarat,
throve on the goldfields trade.
Kildare, to the north-west of
the town, lay between the old
Melbourne Road (Fitzroy
Street) and the road to Ballarat.
Two of Kildare’s three pubs
were run by Irishmen —both,
the Geelong and Ballarat and
the Sportsmen’s Arms catered
for an almost purely Irish
settlement. Between Kildare
and the bayside was Drum-
condra named after the
Dublin suburb.
The Ballarat junction and the
Melbourne Road junction, less
than a quarter of a mile apart,
were (and still are) joined by
Church Street, which runs east
and west. And in Church
Street, opposite the pub where
teamsters pulled-in for a last
drink, was the Kildare police-
station and barracks.
The barracks, which faced
Church Street, consisted of a
(Continued on page 45)


POLITICAL POINTS
Hurroo for Casey!
Russia’s first Pacific rocket is claimed
to have travelled 7767 miles and to have
landed less than 1| miles from its target-
point. Very good shooting! But as a
performance it scarcely rated the space
it was given by the afternoon-papers.
Unlike the first Sputnik and Lunik the
firing of this rocket represented nothing
new. And the “fantastic accuracy” was
fantastic only in terms of World War 11
weapons. Three weeks ago President
Eisenhower announced that in 14 success-
ful rocket-tests from Cape Canaveral at
a range of over 5000 miles the average
distance off target was under two miles.
The longest distance covered was 6325
miles, which is less than the Russian
rocket travelled, but far enough for all
practical purposes.
• •
Randwick Municipality has proposed
that it should be given 30 acres of Cen-
tennial Park for a public golf-course
to replace the one resumed by the
N. S. Wales Government for the building
of a hospital. Lord Mayor Jensen came
out against the plan last week and
criticised the condition of parts of Cen-
tennial Park. This brought counter-
criticism from Alderman Molloy, Mayor
of Randwick, who said that Jensen
“should look in his own front-yard
before looking in my back-yard. I
inspected Hyde Park today.... Aider-
man Jensen is lucky he has the pigeons
to eat the food-scraps left there.”
• •
Baghdad saw eight more death-
sentences inflicted on unfortunate
wretches from 15-years-old upwards, all
accused of killing and burning a couple
of Kassem’s friends during the “rebel-
lion” in the north. The trials lasted
three months ; and judges have asked
the accused to pay the equivalent of
£stg,looo each to the relatives of their
supposed victims, plus the price of a
motor-car, before they top them off.
Whether they will refuse to hang them
if they don’t ante-up has not been stated,
but it would be quite in keeping with
the Mad Hatter methods of the so-called
People's Court.
• •
“Mugga Way”: One of the best-
known Federal stories is of how Billy
Hughes, as Prime Minister, persuaded
Sir John Forrest to accept a barony,
and then broke it to “Bigjohn” that
acceptance of a seat in the House of
Lords would automatically mean vacat-
ing the seats he occupied in Federal
Cabinet and the House of Representa-
tives. (It’s doubtful, by the way,
whether there is a Constitutional bar to
a man being a member of a Dominion
and the Imperial Parliaments simulta-
neously.) The story has been told many
times at private gatherings by the present
Australian Prime Minister, in a good
imitation of the Hughes vernacular and
with emphasis on the mischievous glee
with which Hughes thus engineered the
removal of an unwanted Minister.
Nothing of the sort, of course, occurred
in the honoring of the new Baron Casey
—although 16 or 17 years ago Menzies
would not have regretted some such dis-
tinction for his then potential rival for
leadership.
• •
Don Cameron, oldest Federal poli-
tician, was 82 the other day, and was at
his office in the Federal members’ rooms,
Melbourne, at 8.30 a.m. as usual.
Cameron was returned as a Labor Senator
in 1937 and has been in the team ever
since. John Curtin made him Minister
for Aircraft Production and he was
P.M.G. under Chifley, 1945-49. In the
long ago he was secretary of the Vic-
torian Socialist party and earlier still a
soldier in the Boer War.
Under a decision of a Victorian Wages
Board ordinary watchmen will get an
increase of ss. 6d. in their margin and
manual watchmen 12s. A manual watch-
man, presumably, is one who watches
with his hands.
• •
Cost-of-living figures for the Decem-
ber, 1959, quarter as shown by the Com-
monwealth Statistician’s C-series index-
figures, rose by more than in any
quarter since March, 1958. In terms of
the basic wage they were equivalent to
an increase of 4s. a week in Sydney,
3s. in Melbourne, Adelaide and Hobart,
2s. in Brisbane. The Perth figure was
unchanged.
Only in N. S. Wales is the c.-0.-l. index
now automatically applied to the basic
wage. The 4s. increase will place the
N.S.W. basic wage at the same figure
as the Federal —£14 3s. — but probably
not for long. There’s already a claim
in for a higher Federal wage.
• •
“Stromlo”: One side-effect of Lord
Casey’s disappearance from Federal
politics may be a reassessment of the
exact position, vis-a-vis the Government
and Government departments, of the
C.5.1.R.0. Casey stuck obstinately to
the title of “Minister in Charge of
C.5.1.R.0.,”' and was deeply interested
in the varied and widespread activities
of that organisation. Many Ministers
pointed out to Menzies that these activi-
ties would go better with their own port-
folios than with the F.xternal Affairs
administered by Casey, but Casey was
adamant against change. What will hap-
pen now?
HOPE


Russia has agreed to sell all its export
diamonds to the Central Selling Orga-
nisation of De Beers, which virtually con-
trols the prices of all diamonds sold
outside the Communist bloc. The denun-
ciation of Khrushchev as an abettor of
monopolists by the Australian Commu-
nist party, Dr. Evatt, Leslie Haylen and
Dan Curtin is eagerly awaited.
0 0
Although the political fight between
Bob and Bert seems to have come to
an end the Governor-General is taking
back to England two souvenirs that will
keep its memory green. At his farewell
dinner in Canberra the Prime Minister
presented the G.-G. with two silver
fighting gamecocks as a parting gift. Sir
William Slim, in expressing thanks, said
he felt the choice was very appropriate
as the gamecocks had the qualities of
“spirited determination and aggressive
postures.” With a wicked grin he con-
tinued, “And so, blow me, I’ll call one
Bert and the other Bob.”
Cartoonists have caricatured Menzies
and Evatt as all kinds of animals, but
this is probably the first time anyone
has picked the same emblem for both of
’em. Both seemed to like it.
0 0
A “man on the land” school will be
held at the University of New England,
Armidale, from February 7-13. More
than 100 people from four States, N. S.
Wales, Queensland, Victoria and South
Australia, will be in residence at the
University during the course, the subject
of which is “Nutrition in Livestock
Production.”
0 0
Despite Nasser’s constant public black-
guarding of Communists, he has agreed
that Khrushchev shall have the handling
of the second stage of the Aswan Dam,
which is to be financed, presumably on
the same terms on which Russia has
been financing other projects, to the tune
of about £250 million—credits with re-
payments spread over 10 years at 2\
per cent, interest, and any jobs done at
heavily undercut prices. The arrange-
ment for the second stage of the dam
seems to have been hastened lest the
World Bank embarrass Nasser with an
offer. It's all very strange.
0 e
The Australian Wool Bureau is advo-
cating a joint levy for wool-promotion
and -research. It suggests two ways of
basing the levy—either on a flat rate per
bale or a rate varying with the price
for each bale. At present growers pay
separate levies for promotion and re-
search—4s. a bale for promotion and
2s. a bale for research. The Federal
Government contributes 4s. a bale for
research, but nothing for promotion.
0 0
“Manus”: Qantas may have started its
air-service to New Guinea in 1945 (B.
13 /1 /’6O), but it wasn’t the first in that
field. W. R. Carpenter Airlines operated
a service between Sydney and Rabaul at
least twice a week as early as 1939. The
planes were DH 86’s powered by Gipsy
Major engines. Some of the early pilots
were Dick Mant, Ken Jackson (I think he
flew the first Constellation to Australia
for Qantas), Jos Crisp and Clive Barnard.
The last two lost their lives when their
plane crashed at Cairns early in 1942
on a flight to Moresby to bring out
women and children. The route usually
followed by the Carpenter planes was
Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Towns-
ville (overnight stop), Cairns, Cooktown,
Port Moresby, Lae and Rabaul.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: Calwell’s pre - caucus
western tour (B. 20/1/’6O) included the
inevitable cliche of the politician in
Perth - “Unless the north-west is
developed, the whole of Australia could
be lost.” In addition to his rail-unifica-
tion plan, he declared that the minimum
Labor under his leadership would spend
on the north-west would be £6O million.
He may become Labor leader, but on
present indications he won’t get much
chance to spend anything.
• •
When the Victorian Parliament re-
assembles for the autumn session the
Bolte Government will come under fire
for not building schools fast enough.
Although schools are going-up at a
record rate, thousands of youngsters will
begin the new school-year in over-
crowded or temporary classrooms.
Already Labor has started its criticism
of the Government’s failure to meet the
lag, and the secretary of the Victorian
Teachers’. Union, D. P. Schubert, has
asked the Premier to launch an emer-
gency school-building programme of at
least £4-5 million.
Bolte, of course, cannot raise this
kind of extra money. Education is
already the biggest single item in a
heavily strained State budget. But in
the past five years of L.-C.P. rule
tremendous strides have been made to
fill the gap in school-building. Migration
has placed a heavy burden on the State
education system, as Victoria has taken
40 per cent, of all newcomers to Aus-
tralia since the Second World War.
But parents, whose children are forced
to do their lessons in cramped church-
halls and other temporary quarters,
aren’t interested so much in what has
been done as in what still remains to
be done. And the Labor party will use
this to the full when Parliament re-
assembles.
« #
Why do press-photographers insist on
“Smile, please,” irrespective of the occa-
sion? And why do photographees
oblige? A picture in S. M. “Herald”
showed Lord Mayor Jensen and Chief
Rabbi Dr. Porush chatting before the
Sydney Town Hall meeting of protest
against anti-,Semitic activities. Jensen
was responsible for calling the meeting
and the Rabbi said that the Jewish com-
munity had been deeply shocked by-
events. Yet both wore cheery grins. A
snap in more serious mood would surely
have been a more suitable illustration to
the report of the meeting.
• •
Malayan Prime Minister Tengku
Abdul Rahman, speaking in Wellington
(N.Z.). said that Communist China must
be recognised, though it couldn’t be
done “while we are fighting the Com-
munists.’’ He added, “Formosa is not
China. I suppose you could recognise
Formosa as an independent country and
China as an independent country.” You
could, but unfortunately Peking has
made it clear that it wouldn’t regard
that as recognition.
• •
The assumption that Kirichenko, a
comparatively new and junior member of
the Presidium of the U.S.S.R., in being
“exiled” to Rostov has been treated in
the same way as Molotov and Bulganin
and Malenkov is a trifle far-fetched.
Kirichenko was never a Molotov or
Malenkov, and Rostov-on-Don, a vast
key-centre of Russian food-supply, is
scarcely Outer Mongolia. And being
secretary of the Communist party there
is a very important job.
• •
The trial at Pretoria of 91 persons
(mostly colored and the rest apparently
Communists), for conspiracy to over-
throw the South African State with
violence, promises to be a legal mara-
thon. Originally 156 were charged, but
after a year’s legal argument 65 were
released and it was decided to try the
rest in three batches. Prosecuting counsel,
Pirow, Q.C., died during the proceedings.
The expert witness on Communism,
Professor Murray, has been in the box
seven weeks. And, with the trials enter-
ing their fourth year, only the first batch
(two whites and 28 coloreds) is in the
dock. There are two more lots to put
through the mill after that one. It sounds
as if everybody concerned from the
start is under sentence of death from
natural causes.
• •
“Stromlo”: Although the radio-physics
division of C.5.1.R.0. has no present
plans for listening for possible “intelli-
gent” radio-signals from outer space, it
seems likely that the huge radio-telescope
to be erected near Parkes (N.S.W.) will
be tuned-in for the purpose at some
intervals in its operation. In America
the National Radio Astronomy Observa-
tory, at Green Bank, West Virginia, is
to begin listening early in 1960 to a
couple of stars less than 12 light years
away from us, which have luminosities
and lifetimes similar to our sun. The
sensitive receivers will be able to sort
any deliberate messages from the jumble
of radio noises from the earth and outer
space. It would be years, however, after
any such messages were received before
there could be any attempt to discover
codes and the possibility of inter-
planetary communication.


Personal
ITEMS
Here on a visit to the Hodder and
Stoughton offices in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, John Attenborough is vice-
president of the London publishing-firm
and a great-grandson of Matthew
Hodder, the founder. Educated at
Rugby and Trinity College, Oxford, he
served in War II with the Royal Artillery
and on the staff, and while with 10th
Corps and Eighth Army worked closely
with the 9th Australian and 2nd New
Zealand Divisions. His elder son,
Philip, is on the staff of Hodder and
Stoughton in Australia. A big shot in
the publishing world, Attenborough is
chairman of the English Universities
Press, and a director of the University
of London Press, as well as being on
the board of Pan Books and "The
Lancet.” He plans to go on to N.Z.,
then home via Calcutta and Bombay.
• •
A. B. Hayes, chief automotive engi-
neer for the Shell Co. of Aust., Ltd.,
is headed for London to a two-year
appointment on the oil-products-develop-
ment side of Shell International. He
started with Shell in 1937 as a chemist
at Gore Bay, Sydney.
• •
On Friday the neatly chalked hand-
writing of Norman D. McGregor will
appear on the Sydney Stock Exchange’s
blackboard of booming share prices for
the last time. At 79 this Boer War
veteran is calling it a day. At the
normal retiring-age of 65 Mac left the
N.S.W. Irrigation Commission (he joined
it in 1912) to take on his present job,
which he has carried out for the past
14 years expeditiously and unerringly.
In his last years with the Exchange Mac
has been looking after all trading-posts
and No. 2 callroom. He went with the
first contingent of Mounted Rifles under
Colonel Antill to the Boer War in 1899,
and knew Harry Morant (“The
Breaker”). Mac regards the Boer War as
having been a “cruel war,” which was
The Bulletin’s opinion at the time. In
World War I he was a w.-o. with the
2nd Light Horse under Chauvel, and later
had a commission in the 10th L.H.
• *
Managing-editor for Geraldton News-
papers (W.A.), Alfred E. Anderson is
due to complete 30 years with the com-
pany on January 30. Rotarian, leading
figure in R.S.L. circles and member of
charitable and sporting committees,
Alfred E. has passed-on civic and
journalistic virtues as well as a first name
to his son, who, at 34, is Mayor of
Cootamundra (N.S.W.) and managing-
editor of the “Daily Herald” there.
At Warragamba Dam, 49 miles from
Sydney, engineers are measuring with
almost incredible accuracy the slight
movement of 3f-million tons of concrete
as the great dam settles into place like
a giant bracing itself across the gorge
to hold back 460,000-million gallons of
water. Up in the rain-forest over the
escarpment behind Wollongong divers
are working in pitch darkness 80ft. below
the surface of Avon Dam to divert the
water down to the South Coast. Deep
THOMAS NICOL
under Sydney, engineers are completing
a 7ft.-Bft. tunnel to deliver water from
Potts Hill to the city. All over Sydney
and thereabouts, engineers are adding
more than a mile a day to the 10,000-mile
network of water-mains and sewers.
The man directly responsible for these
and a multiplicity of other engineering-
works is Thomas Bruce Nicol, C.8.E.,
engineer-in-chief of the Sydney Water
Board. Many people in the upper strata
of government, industry and commerce
will remember him as captain and dux
of Sydney High in 1913, and then as
an engineering-student at Sydney Uni.
World War I interrupted for a time—
during which he served with the Engi-
neers in Egypt, France and Belgium—
and he completed his engineering-course
in 1921, graduating B.E. with first-class
honors and the University Medal.
Offered jobs in Fiji, with the Sydney
Harbor Trust and with the Sydney
Water Board, he picked the latter and
10 years ago became engineer-in-chief,
assuming direct control of the design
and construction of the £3 5-million
Warragamba Dam and many other of
the board’s works. Mild-mannered and
quietly spoken, he exercises an authority
that is based on knowledge, and com-
mands a notably affectionate loyalty
from the little army of engineers who
design, construct and maintain Sydney’s
water and sewerage schemes.
• •
A biologist at Torridon (Eng.), h.-q.
of the Wool Industries Research Associa-
tion, Dr. M. L. Ryder has been appointed
senior lecturer in wool-biology at the
University of N.S.W. Now 32, educated
at Leeds Grammar and Leeds Uni-
versity, he joined W.I.R.A. in 1951,
and, as well as working at Torridon on
such run-o’-the-mill things as the rela-
tion of nutrition to wool-growth, he has
carried-out some rather curious lines of
research—among them, a biologist dip
into the Dead Sea scrolls. In these
parchments, made from the skin of
sheep, were remains of wool-fibres, and
Dr. Ryder’s investigations have been
valuable both to historians and to those
concerned with the development of
sheep-breeds. Also, through interest in
local .history and archaeology, he has
turned his biological knowledge to good
account in investigating animal bones
dug-up at various excavations in York-
shire.
« •
H. P. Bowyer, who’s been appointed
a member of the Victorian divisional
council of the Australian Society of
Accountants, is already a member of
the research - group of the Chartered
Institute of Secretaries. These days
Carlton Brewery sec., he was a prominent
Collingwood footballer in the late 1920’s
and the early 1930’5.
• •
“P.0.M.C.”: I knew George Searle,
new g.-m. of the C.S.B. (B. 13/1/ ’6O),
when we both boarded at the same house
in Haberfield (Sydney) in 1920. At that
time George was a clerk at head-office
and an active member of the bank’s
theatrical society. Once he performed
the traditional feat of tripping over his
sword in, I think, “The Balkan
Princess.” Evidently grass hasn’t grown
under George’s feet during the inter-
vening years, but 40 years is a long time
between drinks —even though they were
icecream-sodas in those days.
• •
“M.F.D.” farewells a colleague:
Rudolph Bronner, who lately passed on in
Sydney, was head of the talks and youth-
education departments of the A.B.C. when I
met him first in 1936. The departments were
separated a year or so later and Bronner con-
tinued as head of youth-education, eventually
developing it to a position of world eminence,
largely through his inspiration the kindergarten
of the air. Rudy (as we called him) was born
in South Australia and took his M.A. degree
at Oxford, where he studied philosophy ; later
he taught English in German universities. He
served with the British infantry in War I,


and later returned to his educational work in
Australia, joining the A.B.C. in 1935 and
remaining with it until his retirement in 1955.
He has been described as a gay, witty and
learned man and the description fits him well.
Many times at A.B.C. programme-conferences
during War II he earned the unspoken thanks
of the chairman (usually the general-manager)
by bringing a heated discussion back to earth
with a wisecrack which caused even the
strongest opponents to forget their differences.
• •
R. E. Macaree started with the
Colonial Gas and Coke Co. away back
when street-lamps were lit by flame-
torches. Now, after 43 years’ service
with the company, he retires as manager
at Rockhampton (Q.).
• •
Any day at Sydney’s Empire Theatre
you may catch sight of the active fellow
here sketched —see him either bounding
up and down (not to take off any surplus
flesh, because he hasn’t got any, but
simply to maintain his malleability) or
hammering his forces into shape for a
forthcoming ballet.
Paul Grinwis can claim this ballet as
his own creation, both story and choreo-
graphy. It is called “Journey To The
Moon,” but owes nothing to the manned-
rocket era ; it concerns the dream of
a young astronomer and is dedicated to
Edouard Borovansky, Grinwis’s old
friend and mentor, who put the stamp
of his artistic approval on the first two
acts —all he was able to see before he
died.
Grinwis, almost as familiar to Aus-
tralian balletomanes as “Boro” himself,
was born in Ghent, Belgium, of Dutch
parents. He began his ballet-training at
16 —quite a ripe age to start ballet; in
Europe they grab boys for it at about
the age Australian boys are learning to
swim. He made his debut at the
Bordeaux Opera House, moving on to
London, where he gained solid experience
with the De Basil Company in 1947 at
Covent Garden. He was in the U.S.
when - Borovansky snapped him up for
his 1951 season, and he’s still doing top
roles for the company. He will dance
the leading part in “Journey To The
Moon.”
PAUL GRINWIS
“Shibli Bagarag”: N.Z. threatens to
establish a corner in centenarians. Latest
to top his century here is John Wheatley,
of Waimate. Admittedly he’s an Aus-
tralian —he was an apprentice-comp, on
the “Bathurst Times” at the age of 14,
but he came to N.Z. two years later. He
was with Christchurch newspapers until
he retired from the “Lyttleton Times”
in 1925. Playing cricket for Canterbury
from 1882 to 1906, he was at one time
sole N.Z. selector.
• •
Up in Townsville (Q.) a citizen has
just celebrated his 103rd birthday by
appearing on TV. He is John Riley,
who hailed originally from Victoria, and
at the age of 11 carried the mail (solo)
on horseback between Forbes and Cowra
(N.S.W.) through wild bushranger
country. . He's been in Townsville for
the past 64 years. His prescription for
success in the Centenarian Stakes —hard
work, no grog and no doctors.
• •
“A.L.8.”: It’s a way they have in the
Pyke family. Robert Pyke, 1959 dux
of Newington College, Sydney, passed
the Leaving with two first-class honors
and four A’s. Two years ago his brother
John, now a science-student at Sydney
Uni., was also dux of Newington. Their
father, L. R. O. Pyke, present head-
master of Newington, was himself dux
of Melbourne’s Wesley College and later
a Rhodes scholar, and his wife was dux
of the Methodist Ladies’ College, Mel-
bourne !
• •
“Palam”: John Dale, a Townsville
(Q.) lad who recently passed his State
Scholarship by borrowing a boy from a
lower grade to write his answers, was
once thought to be a hopeless spastic.
Now 15, he has got over his affliction
not only in school-work but also in
sport —a couple of years back he became
a top-class juvenile rider with the Royal
Amateur Cycle Club (Townsville).
• •
“Texas”: Walter W. Williams, of
Franklin, Texas (B. 30/12/’59), claimed
to have been the last survivor of the
American Civil War, was the oldest
(authenticated) member of human society,
his 117 years having beaten the previous
record —115 years, 107 days—credited to
Isabella Shepeard, who died in Wales
in 1948. Williams’s chance of reaching
his imallotted span was in the ratio of
one to 2100-million.
Incidentally, famous early Bulletin
artist “Hop” also fought in the Civil
War ; he was a volunteer for 100 days
in Company C, 130th Regiment of
Infantry, Ohio National Guard.
• •
Above is a picture of Keith Sinclair
and his collaborator William Mandle
who have been over in Sydney in the
course of writing a history of the Bank
of N. S. Wales in New Zealand. As
William Mandle, unlike Keith Sinclair,
is a silent sort of man he does not show
up very well in the picture, but he has
some solid qualifications all the same,
for when he was at Oxford he won the
Open History Prize. He is a lecturer in
history at Auckland University, where
Sinclair is professor. Besides having
written the Pelican History of New
KEITH SINCLAIR
Zealand, a book on The Origin of the
Maori Wars and lately having edited
a new edition of Sir John Gorst’s classic
The Maori King, Sinclair is well known
as a poet in New Zealand and has pub-
lished two books of verse, Songs for a
Summer and Strangers or Beasts. Both
travellers say they have discovered a
fascinating human side of economics in
the course of the bank-history, which
will be published in 1961 to coincide
with the centenary of the bank in New
Zealand.
• •
Into the Silence:—-
At Geraldton (W.A.), Mrs. Dorothea
Jeannette Hampden, better known as Billy
Ashton, one of the brightest lights of the
Australian stage and concert-platform in the
1920’5. A daughter of Marie Lloyd, the famous
English musical-comedy artist, she first appeared
on the stage in association with her mother.
During War II she served overseas as a nursing-
sister in the R.A.A.F.
In London, Peggy O’Neil, red-haired Irish
colleen and once the darling of London and
New York. She made her first stage-appearance
in “Paddy The Next Best Thing” and the
song named after her is still sung today.
In Katoomba (N.S.W.), at 67, William Alfred
Gleeson, formerly chief messenger in N.S.W.
Premier’s Department, and of the First A.I.F.
A man of many parts and many friends. An
instance of his initiative and versatility: When
Italian fruiterers were rounded-up by Com-
monwealth Security for possible internment
during World War 11, at the suggestion of a
friend he organised the picking-up of perish-
able fruit and vegetables from their shops and
had the lot distributed among hospitals and
other public institutions.
In Sydney, at 78, Wilfred Kingsl'ord-Smith,
brother of “Smithy,” and father of two
R.A.A.F. wing-commanders and a flight-iieut.
At Skene, Aberdeenshire (Scotland), Lieut.-
Colonel A. P. Imlay, who served in the Ist
A.I.F. with the 16th and 48th Bns., and com-
manded the 47th Bn.; later he served in the
Gordon Highlanders and from 1939-45 with
the Indian Army.


ABORIGINALITIES
XXistorically-proud Tasmanians will
be among those grateful for the
excellent leader on Macquarie (B.
6/l/’6O). The “Old Viceroy” paid two
official visits to Van Diemen's Land-
in 1811, the year following his arrival,
and again in 1821 —on each occasion
placing many new names on the map
and setting-out plans for towns and
buildings as indications of his firm con-
fidence in the island’s future.
Interesting that, in Tasmania’s north,
the settlement of George Town —which
he planned as the northern capital
instead of Launceston, and for which
he steadily fought—has lately taken a
big leap forward, following the estab-
lishing of the Bell Bay aluminium in-
dustry. The old original town-square
and streets, which he marked-out with
the signboards that formed part of his
travelling-equipment, are now being
rapidly built round and widely extended.
On the first trip, in the colonial brig
Lady Nelson (“The best and safest sea-
boat I ever sailed on”), his “most excel-
lent brave sailor-”wife accompanied
them from Sydney, and was responsible
for laying-in provisions and everything
necessary for the voyage. Baggage-carts
going ahead carried tents and luggage
for camping-places along the route from
Hobart Town to Launceston and Port
Dalrymple; the Governor and his
colorful retinue travelled on horseback,
and his journals reflect something of the
tough conditions which he and Elizabeth
faced on the vice-regal visit.
On their next journey, in the merchant-
ship Midas, they brought with them (by
this time there was a young seven-year-
old Lachlan) the vice-regal carriage and
horses, with coachmen Joseph Big to
handle the ribbons. It must have been
pretty uncomfortable in the heavy,
trundling vehicle. Macquarie himself
rode on horseback, and on one occasion,
during the return-journey from Launces-
ton to Hobart Town, a landowner’s gig
“Old Joe s one of our most active members."
had to be requisitioned for Elizabeth
and the boy, owing to Joseph “not being
able to drive safely from his having
got intoxicated.” Joseph, always highly
regarded by the Macquaries for his
driving dexterity, established a livery-
stables in Sydney’s Phillip Street after
the Governor’s departure from the
colony, and died in 1833. The carriage
so frequently mentioned in Macquarie’s
journals seems not to have been pre-
served.
Mount Dromedary in N.S.W. and
the mount of that name in Tasmania
are links with the R.N. ship which
brought Macquarie to Sydney. Mt.
Nelson, outside Hobart, commemorates
the famous little brig with the sliding
keels that first carried him to Van
Diemen's Land.
W. H. M.
* * * *
“Xavier”: Fishing is just too easy Tor
those fortunate ones—their numbers con-
fined to staff-members, 24 at a time —
who dangle a line off the Kwinana oil-
refinery jetty about 11 miles from Fre-
mantle. There seems to be no other
reason why fish are attracted to the spot
in large numbers than that a cathodic
unit which protects the piles against
corrosion gives them an enjoyable
“kick” from a 48-volt current sent
through the water from sunken ground-
beds.
* * * *
“Snobby”: Note the difference between
a sheep and a goat when they are
browsing off trees. The sheep, having
finished, will slide his forelegs down the
trunk, and thereby risk getting his fet-
lock-joint caught in a low fork —and
that, in a way-out paddock, can prove
fatal. The goat never gets caught that
way —he pushes himself outward from
the trunk before dropping down.
* * * *
“En Passant”: When I was young we
took our bunyips seriously. It was a
poor swamp or billabong that hadn’t
its own bunyip, complete with a well-
edited anthology of sightings and other
details. All good bunyips made spine-
chilling noises when the moon was full,
dragged their quotas of fully-grown
steers or jumbucks into the water, and
varied greatly in shape and size—
according to the quality and quantity
of stimulating-agent inside the sighter.
The only authentic bunyip I knew of
had a fire-shovel beard as red as his
thatch, twinkling blue eyes, and spoke
remarkably good English. He was an
old - time railway - construction navvy,
SONG OF THE RIGGERS
We’re camping at Boronia,
Our work at Cowan is done —
And weeks ahead of schedule,
But still we’re moving on.
Yet life’s like that, my brothers,
Let's banish care and gloom :
We’re camping at Boronia
Where the wild apples bloom.
Through the cuttings and the tunnels
When the skies are bright and clear
We journey down the sleepers
Burdened with all our gear;
And it’s sultry in the gorges
When the day is but begun -
And the Christmas-bush is ripening
In the hot summer’s sun.
We’ve stacked the steel at Redgates
As the trucks come rolling down
And we must unload the jinker
At the crossing near the town.
And we have toiled and sweated
Close by the waters cool
While we hear the children singing
In the little river school.
We’re riggers and we’re, painters
And we’re often laborers too
And we help the boilermaker
When there’s nothing else to do.
But there’s color in the ridges
And there’s all the bush to see
While we work along the railroad
By the lovely Hawkesbury.
N.S.W.
JOHN DUNCAN.


T
l-HS LhT-H TU£S>€ Veu&UTFUL, CoIIAPSISIB f 7 ADJUSTABLE
Uzy- SNOOZERS is 'That you NEVER REActy GET an opportunity
To LA7C OR, SnoozS .


notorious for his practical-joking, and
he acquired his nickname one Sunday
afternoon while swimming in a lake near
Kerang (Vic.). Spotting a newchum
German from a nearby navvies’ camp
who was shaping-up to cast a line, he
submerged, surfaced his whiskery head
opposite the angler and squirted him
with a mouthful of water. Fritz broke
evens to camp, yelling that he'd been
attacked by a red bunyip. Incredulous
navvies who sped to investigate found
only the grinning practical-joker . . .
and until he passed-in his chips 40 years
later Red was “The Bunyip” to genera-
tions of railway-navvies.
* * * #
“North Esk”: Tasmanian farmers who
used to stalk Kelly the crow with a
shotgun are now greeting him as a
friend. Reason: big flocks of native-
hens become almost as great a pest
as rabbits. These birds can’t fly, but
“Cant you tune-in to something else ?”
they can outrun most dogs, and are
feathered Konrads. The crow, by put-
ting their eggs on his menu, along with
their chickens, has become the cocky’s
No. 1 weapon in keeping their numbers
in check.
* * * *
“Splodger”: Almost every chap I’ve
seen removing an old fence-post has
followed the same routine: he digs
around the four sides to loosen it —and
thereby makes three-quarfers of his
work redundant. One side is sufficient,
well down. Then a heave from the
opposite side and it will be loosened
sufficient to skulldrag.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: The “unsophisticated”
Torres Strait Islander knows his onions
when it comes to present-giving. The
new-hand white man usually falls into
the trap of accepting enthusiastically the
comparatively worthless article tendered
by a smiling binghi caller. When the
donor, still exuding bonhomie, makes
no attempt to depart after the recipient’s
expression of thanks, an awkward
period follows. Eventually the em-
barrassed recipient inquires what his
benefactor is waiting for, and is told
“For my present,' master!” Thus the
newchum learns that the handing-over
of a present is strictly a commercial
transaction,
“Wulworra”: When calling the roll of
bird-visitors to his camp in Central
Queensland, “1.Q.” (B. 6/1 /’6O) let his
pencil slip in listing three kinds of
butcher-birds. It’s quite likely that the
grey and pied butcher-birds were among
those present, but the black-backed mem-
ber of the group certainly wasn’t—that
sun-lover belongs only to the Cape York
area and New Guinea. Another species
which Australia shares with New Guinea
is the organ-voiced black butcher-bird,
but he, being confined to coastal areas
in the tropics, would also be missing
from the line-up at the Clermont camp.
* * * *
“Brick E”: The Southern Portland
Cement Company in the historic town
of Berrima (N.S.W.) is proving that a
safety-campaign can reduce the accident-
rate amazingly, if presented in the right
manner. The first thing that draws the
eye on entering the works is a huge sign
announcing: “This is our forty-third [at
the time of my visit] accident-free day.”
Forty-three days without one accident is
no small achievement in a plant which
employs more than 600 men and involves
the use of hundreds of tons of mammoth
machinery, overhead-cranes and grabs,
incredibly hot furnaces, many high stages
and ladders and electricity enough to
electrocute a whole army. Employees
get a “safety-coupon unit” each for every
30 consecutive days in which an accident
has not occurred. Varying numbers oi
coupons will purchase articles from toilet
soap to car-spanners, from rules to rain-
coats. Thus a cement-company
cementing employee-employer relations
for the benefit of both.
* * * *
“Dicky”: Didn’t know vanilla (fi!
6/1/'6O) was a favored beverage to get
plastered on. Our boozing bush babblers
once the metho ran out, were more givei
to lemon-essence to produce oblivion
Bosses who were a wake-up always re-
garded the store - order from the hut-,
cooks with deep suspicion if the use oft
lemon-essence tended to get excessive,
How any of them tossed it down in
quantity and still retained a tongue and
throat to tell the tale is beyond me;
try a spot on the tip of your tongue and
see what 1 mean.
* * * *
“Windi”: In the Darling Downs wind-
storm, Brigalow railway-station was
picked up and deposited across the main
railway- and loopdines. Still inside the
station was a porter who suffered cuts
and also shock . . . not only was the wind-
storm early ; it wasn’t even scheduled. ,
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: In declaring that the
echidna is “probably more related to
- the elephant than the porcupine” (B.
23/12/-59) “Pieter Nuyts” is on solid
ground, but it is just as great a mis-
nomer to call the incredible little animal
an “echidna,” despite the fact that the
name is often used by naturalists who
should know better. “Echidna” means
“adder” in Greek and defines a species
of eel in Latin. Two similar words, how-
ever, mean “hedgehog,” a creature
indisputably of the porcupine family.
They are the Greek word echinos and
its 'Latin corruption echinus. Ellis
Troughton, in his Furred Animals of
Australia, has it that the only fitting
name for this cousin of the platypus
is “spiny ant-eater,” and I second the
motion.
* * * *
' “Western Ped.”: One of the strangest
arrests was made some few miles north
of Geraldton (W.A.) when police forced!
a stolen fishing-vessel to heave-to by
firing across her bows with a .303 rifle.
It required two shots before the startled
teenagers, two of whom had pirated the
vessel, were able to grasp just what shots
across the bow meant. The fishing-
vessel, a recently completed diesel-
engined craft, had been anchored in
Geraldton Harbor before going on her
first commercial deep-sea cruise when the
lads decided to have a cruise in it.
* * * *
“Bass”: In my garden a silvereye
nested in the flower-head of a jacaranda,
attaching the nest to the flower-stems;)
and it was fortunate that the flowers and
the nest fell before the first eggs were
laid. The birds were distressed for a
time before they began building in a
nearby shrub, pulling the old nest to
pieces and rebuilding it at the new site.


The New Guinea wash-bois was
new to white - man culture, but
already it had made a great impression
on him. Asked whether he had en-
joyed the cowboy-and-Indian film he
had seen the previous night, he remarked
in an offhand way that he thought it
was quite good; then stopped, and
suddenly burst out, “Master, don’t the
Indians ever win?” —“Bepi.”
* * * *
“Quartercut”: Anent city-handicapped
fruit-trees (B. 30/12/’59), my old nurse
in her shut-in, hanky-sized suburban
(Melb.) backyard has a Kadota fig-tree
completely asphalt - surrounded which
every year yields five-bushels of the
lushest bottling-figs.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: I liked the purple-patch
touch to a Sydney press story about two
aboriginal youths who allegedly out-ran
police-cars through wild, waterless
country 250 miles south-west of Alice
Springs, during which they “ran 100 miles
in 23 hours, and to obliterate their tracks
travelled in huge leaps from spinifex-
bush to spinifex-bush, never letting their
feet touch the sand.” Well, spinifex
grows close to the ground in clumps, not
in bushes, and by leaping from clump
to clump the fugitives would crush-down
the spinifex and thus leave a track like
a bullock-wagon going through a swamp.
The police had two trackers, and if that
highly-original method of obliterating
tracks tricked them, then those sleuths
were either stone-blind or weren’t trying,
and 100 miles in 23 hours (without water)
of bounding from bush to bush must
make those binghis the best marathon
runners since the first event.
* * * *
“Jeyles”: The swallows decided to
nest fair over the view-window. Spouse,
foreseeing a well-spotted pane, had me
place, neat under the nursery-to-be, a
foot-square piece of tin. This was a
bit puzzling to the swallows, as they were
used to zooming up and landing right
on the nest-edge, but they soon learnt
to use the new platform. On the job
Mum was the hustler and was often back
with her next beakful of compo before
Dad had finished tamping his into place,
but never did he catch Mum that way.
This year they got their mud-supply from
the edge of the silage-stack much closer
than their routine source, the dam-edges ;
so they cut the job out in four days, and
with Mum not ready yet to lay the eggs
they have to fill in the hiatus by sitting
on the edge of their gazebo ready to give
larrydoodle to any spadger careless
enough to enter their sector.
* * * *
“Ceg”: When commercial - travellers
used the railways, smoking-carriages
were equipped with spittoons of brass
recessed into the floor of the compart-
ment. If the carriage happened to be
lst-class and carpeted, then a circular
opening was provided in the carpet, but
not all smokers were good marksmen,
and its cunning design was often defeated.
Three commercials wanted a fourth for
poker, preferably a mug with money.
Tactfully I declined, but a sour-looking
bloke in the corner seat joined in. A
travelling-rug was spread over the four
pairs of knees, and it was soon obvious
that the commercials had bought-into
something out of their depth. The
unconversational, sour gent raked-in the
money, mainly silver coins, and soon
had quite a heap on his corner of the
rug. After an hour or so, one of the
commercials announced that he’d had
enough, and, getting up rather abruptly,
dislodged the rug, sending the heap of
silver cascading into the spittoon. Those
coins had better marksmanship than the
spitters ; the lot disappeared down the
hole and thence on to the track. Some
fettler later on must have thought he’d
hit the jackpot. I got out at the next
station and they were still arguing
whether the loss should be made good.
To me it seemed one of the hazards of
play.
MRS. RALLUS OBJECTS
TTaving acquired a petrol-driven rotary-
-1 mower guaranteed to transform the
roughest jungle into smoothest lawn, I
decided to test the maker’s veracity on
a tough patch of guinea-grass.
Aided by its 4-stroke motor, skill
acquired by two years of pushing its
predecessor, and a delicate thumb on
the throttle, I quickly reduced several
tough clumps to useful mulch.
As we live out-of-town I’d removed
the muffler, and was really enjoying
myself, when the battle was joined.
Seemingly from nowhere a pound-
and-a-half of fury in speckled feathers
attacked the mower, pecking at the red
cowling, and refusing to desist until the
motor was cut-off. Then a rather alarmed
and curious ornithologist (amateur) was
able to examine his attacker.
There she stood, mouth open, wings
dragging the dust like a strutting turkey-
gobbler, ridiculous stump-tail erect, her
unwebbed but obviously aquatic feet set'
well apart, shrieking “Creek-creek,” but
obviously meaning “Gettabloodyellouta-
here!”
A bellow to the house, and I was
joined by Junior, complete with binocu-
lars, a 35mm. color-camera, and a copy
of Cayley’s book.
The little lady kept her fighting-pose
and fixed us with a beady eye. We were
able to take-in the salient features. Size
of a half-grown bantam, speckled-brown
plumage, reddish patch over the ear,
stump-tail and wading-feet. To break-up
the party we retreated and watched her
and were able to recognise an olive-green
collarette on her slate-grey breast before
she made for the clump of guinea which
had last been mown.
Once more the mower was started, and
on the first “put-put” she left her hide-
out and tore again into the machine.
Again the engine was cut, and we
examined the clump of grass. Three
inches from its outer edge lay a small
nest, roughly formed, and holding seven
creamy eggs with purplish blotches on
the butt-end. Apart from another
“Creek-creek,” Mum didn’t object to the
examination, and when we went away
she resumed her seat.
An hour’s patience—she left the nest
a couple of times to make a recce after
we had retreated —identified her as the
Lewin water-rail (Rallus pectoralis), and
of her habits Cayley says: “Exceedingly
shy and retiring of habit, and difficult of
observation.”
Since then we’ve visited her daily, and
although we know the exact location of
the nest we find it difficult to see her.
The speckles on her back blend perfectly
with the cross-shadows of the grass-
stalks in the sunlight, and on overcast
days they merge with the general drab
confusion of the guinea-grass root-
system.
Hot, humid days don’t appear to
worry her. The side-effects of “Cyclone
Dora” (9in. of solid rain) on our N.Q.
coast can’t upset her. She has a job
to do, and she’s doing it. But just start
the mower within 20yds. of that nest,
and she’s fighting-mad.
JOHN ORRELL.


★
|&ANPt
AGRfi
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
Australia’s
Better Brandy
stagings
2(.ent
Pot-stiii BRANDY
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing . . . so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St: Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
stagings
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
ODD-MAN-OUT (ONLY MORE SO)
r THE lifting of the U.K. Bank-
rate to 5 p.c. (from 4
p.c.), with the double purpose
of checking the outflow of
overseas funds from the U.K.
and at the same time curbing
excessive speculation and
business overoptimism, has
followed very quickly the anti-
inflationary Budget introduced
by. President Eisenhower in the
United States.
In his economic message to
Congress on January 20, Eisen-
hower said “We must seek,
through both private actions
and public policies, to minimise
and contain inflationary pres-
sures that could undermine the
basis for a high, continuing
rate of growth.”
Among the Budget pro-
posals are the intention of
using an estimated Budget
surplus of $4200 million for
retiring Federal debt, and
action by Congress to remove
the interest-rate limitation
which “currently inhibits the
non-inflationary management
of the Federal debt.” * The
President also stressed the
necessity for interests outside
the Government “to prevent
attempts arbitrarily to estab-
lish prices or wages at levels
that are inconsistent with the
general welfare.”
The action in Britain on the
Bank-rate follows an outflow
of foreign funds to New York
and Bonn after those financial
centres raised their own dis-
count-rates ; but it also follows
the British Board of Trade’s
estimate that U.K. industry in
1960 is expected to spend 14
P- c - more on fixed capital-
investments than in 1959. Two-
thirds of the planned increased
expenditure is in respect of
plant, machinery and vehicles,
as against one-third for build-
ing-work.
Sir Thomas Barlow, of the
District Bank, recently issued
a warning against the danger
of “high demands for consumer-
goods, capital-goods and ex-
ports” all at the same time, and
referred to a possible weaken-
mg of Britain’s position through
rising world interest-rates, a
widening of the trade-gap or
irresponsible wage-agreements,
The pressing problem was to
reconcile high investment and
expansion with stable prices
and freedom from inflation.
Through the 155.-a-week
Federal basic-wage increase last
June and the more recent
and more varied “margins”-
increases, Australia is out-of-
step with general economic
policy in major overseas coun-
tries. Steel has already been
lifted in price by about 6 p.c.
And other price-increases are
on the way.
It would be wrong indeed to
attempt to “correct” the infla-
tionary forces set in motion by
wage-increases not accom-
panied by greater productivity
simply by raising taxation and
hoping to drain-off increased
spending-power that way. More
serious than demand-inflation
at the moment is cost-inflation.
Costs won’t be reduced
through raising taxation. And
lowering of import-barriers
won't reduce prices very far
when wages remain fixed.
High economic policy in
Australia for the past year
seems to have been naive and
strangely lighthearted. It
would appear that the various
powers-that-be have taken the
booming Stock Exchanges as
evidence of great industrial pro-
sperity. But one has only to
look at the yields obtainable
from leading industrial shares —
some around 2 p.c.—to realise
how far out of line share prices
are with company-dividends
and, by the same token, profits.
Manufactured Exports
A few weeks ago Sir Norman
Kipping, Director-general
of the Federation of British In-
dustries, visited Australia, and
was reported in the Australian
press and heard and seen on
radio and TV. Commenting
on his iemarks upon his return
(January 17) to the U.K.,
London “Times” of January 19
says that Australia’s possible
future as an exporter of manu-
factored goods was one of the
unexpected aspects of the Aus-
tralian economy which Sir
Norman found time to study
in his month’s visit to Aus-
tralia. In fact, Australian in-
dustry has been exporting to
some of its natural markets for
some time past and the total
value of the country’s ship-
ments of manufactured goods
has now risen to over £loom.
a year (of which about £2sm.
a year have gone to New Zea-
land, largely in replacement of
British-made goods). But it
seems fair to describe this
development as unexpected, be-
cause British ignorance of Aus-
tralia’s changing economy is
probably not less than that of
the British economy which Sir
Norman found —and deplored
—among Australians.
The development of Aus-
tralian exports of manufactures
receives substantial encourage-
ment from both Government
and industry, but Sir Norman,
according to “The Times,”
sees one serious possible threat
to its continuance—the danger
that Australia may price itself
out of the markets surrounding
her in South-east Asia and the
Pacific. The country’s present
prosperity has some of the
characteristics of an inflationary
boom, with wages increasing
faster than productivity.
In addition, inter-State
rivalries sometimes encourage
an inefficient and uneconomic
fragmentation of production—
especially production financed
by British or other external
investment.
But Australia has great com-
pensating advantages, Sir
Norman said. It produces the
cheapest steel in the world and
the potentially big markets of
South-east Asia are much
nearer than they are to Western
Europe or the eastern United
States.
The large number of branch
enterprises of British firms —
and an increasing number of
American ones - are another
advantage. Two-thirds of the
external investment in Aus-
tralia has come from Britain,
and about 500 British firms
have established industrial sub-
sidiaries here in the past 50
years. The drive to develop
Australian exports in which
British-controlled firms are
already playing a large part —
may well produce a new
problem for British parent com-
panies. Sir Norman foresees an
increasing pressure on them to
grant their Australian sub-
sidiaries the franchise for sell-
ing their products in the
markets of South-East Asia.


MULLENS Sc CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L8327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECEL/EX,” Sydney
IRAI I I.
trouble
SSL.
Birds have none of the worries of the
human traveller booking passages,
reserving accommodation, or buying
tickets.
You, too, can travel trouble free if
you let the Bank of New South Wales
make all your arrangements. Just enquire
at any branch of the Bank. There is no
charge.
O\V
&
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
TRAVEL DEPARTM ENT
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A5816C
From £lOO to £3OBO
Aone-for-two bonus-issue
from Minster, Ltd., makers
of Westminster rubber-bonded
carpet and operators of the
new gamma-sterilisation plant
at Dandenong (Vic.), adds
another spectacular chapter to
the financial career of this
fabulous post-war enterprise.
At the beginning, on Novem-
ber 29, 1946, shareholders put-
up £250,000 in cash. They
have been asked for no further
cash. But on March 19, 1951,
a one-for-one bonus-issue was
made, to be followed by a
three-for-four issue of gift-scrip
in 1957. Now there is the
present one-for-two free issue,
for which the books close on
March 9.
With the shares, cum rights,
now at 88s., the position is that
the holder of an original 100
shares of £1 each now owns
700 of 10s. each, worth £3OBO
on the market. The 700 shares
will increase in number to 1050
following the latest issue.
The board expects to main-
tain the dividend at the rate of
20 p.c. p.a. after the latest
bonus-issue. Profit - earning
continues to rise with a grow-
ing demand for the co.’s pro-
ducts.
Paid capital, after the bonus,
will be £1,618,644 in 10s. shares.
At 88s. each, cum rights, the
market valuation of the co.
becomes £9,500,000.
“Taffy” Owen for Timor
T auncelot (“Taffy”) Owen,
the oil-geologist who has
been writing for The Bulletin
on oil and kindred subjects for
the past 14 years, has been
retained by Timor Oil, Ltd., as
a consultant to assist its exist-
ing geological staff by on-the-
spot application of his special-
ised knowledge of migrated oil
and “fossil seeps.”
Results of his studies in
Timor will be awaited with
interest in Australia, since he
has consistently maintained
that occurrences of oil on this
continent have indicated its
migrated nature and the need
for a special technique of oil-
search embodying not only
geology and geophysics but also
chemistry.
Owen left Australia for
Timor on January 20, and has
arrived on the field.
Brambles and K. and L.
17"elly and Lewis over the
last few years has had an
unhappy career, and the offer
of nine ss. shares in Brambles
Industries, Ltd., for each 10
£1 shares in Kelly and Lewis
(with seven ss. Brambles ords.
for each 10 £1 prefs. in Kelly
and Lewis) should appeal to
most K. and L. shareholders,
as it has already appealed to
K. and L. directors. (An alter-
native offer to the prefs. in K.
and L. is 20s. each in cash.)
Melbourne-based Kelly and
Lewis is a 62-year-old engineer-
ing business (incorpoiated 1939)
specialising in pumping-
machinery, valves, etc., with the
addition of farm-machinery
and electrical subsidiaries. It
has shown trading losses for the
past four years.
There have been some dis-
posals and consolidations
during recent years, but acquisi-
tion by Brambles should tie-in
well with Brambles’ other
recent acquisitions, including
that of Morison and Bearby,
Ltd., in Newcastle (N.S.W.).
Morison and Bearby are manu-
facturers of valves and metal-
castings, as well as acting as
agents for a number of over-
seas concerns.
Brambles’ offer for Kelly
and Lewis will involve it, if
accepted in full, in the issue
of £160,163 of ord. capital,
though, as the ss. ords. are at
30s. or thereabouts on the
market, the market-value is
nearer a million pounds.
Paid capital of Kelly and
Lewis is £758,500 in 548,500
ords. and 210,000 6 p.c. prefs.,
all of £1 each.
Howard Smith
A sign of these stirring
financial times is the pro-
posed one-for-four bonus issue
and one-for-four cash issue (at
a premium of 10s. per 20s.
share) by shipping, coal, steel,
sugar and cement investment-
company Howard Smith, Ltd.
Howard Smith’s capital has
remained steady at £2,250,000
since 1927, when £250,000 of
6 p.c. pref. money was raised.
Ord. capital has not changed
from its present £2,000,000'
since 1924, when £500,000 of
reserves was capitalised.
The £500,000 bonus-issue
now proposed will be financed
•from the writing-up of “cer
tain of the investments of the
company.” And half of it will
be offset, of course, by the 10s.
share-premium on the new
issue.
The co.’s holding in B.H.P.
could easily provide the capital-
assets reserve from which to
make the distribution, but in
the money nowadays also is
Caledonian Collieries, Southern
Portland Cement and Aus-
tralian Sugar Co. Pty.
Earnings for 1959 are not yet
available, but for 1958 were
disclosed at no more than 14
p.c. on ord. capital. Ord. div.
remained at 8 p.c.
The directors do not say what
the new £750,000 of share-and-
premium money will be re-
quired for, or what this new
capital is expected to earn. An
8 p.c. div. on £3 million of
ord. capital would call for
more than was disclosed in
1958, but that particular year
was a bad one, in which the
shipping subsidiary made a loss,
and shipping earnings are
understood to have improved in
1959.
However, it is difficult, on
earning figures, to justify the
665. 6d. being paid for Howard


INVEST WITH SAFETY
3 months 5%
6 months SVz%
9 months 6%
12 months 6Vz%
18 MONTHS AND OVER
%
DEPOSITS MAY BE WITHDRAWN ON
30 DAYS' NOTICE
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
SALES FINANCING OF FAMOUS PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY THE
i/i€tsUnas(Deei*lft^iGf*oup
FORD
CATERPILLAR
HYSTER
A.E.C.
FORDSON
LANZ
JOHN DEERE
LISTER
• CIRCULAR NO. 4 dated 30/9/59 with audited balance
sheet as at 30/6/59 available from:
All Members of the Stock Exchange and all
branches of
HASTINGS PEERING
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
William & Crown Streets, Sydney. Tel. FA 0322 (33 lines)
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Tel. 4-1481 (9 lines)
City Chambers, Alinga St., Canberra, A.C.T. Tel. J 4051
EI9OH
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.,
G.P.O. Box 4333, SYDNEY.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, full details of
your terms deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
Smith shares. The fact is that
investors have adopted the view
that a takeover might be to
their advantage —or even the
offer of a takeover, as in the
case of that other shipping and
investment concern, Adelaide
Steam, not to mention Huddart
Parker.
If the 8 p.c. distribution is
continued on the enlarged ord.
capital, purchase of the shares,
cum rights to the new issues,
would give a yield of £3 4s. per
cent, on the outlay.
It is true that B.H.P. returns
Howard Smith a low income-
yield from an investment with
a high market-value. And the
potential of some of H.S.’s
other investments is high also.
But past performances of
Howard Smith do not suggest
that the latest capital-moves
will produce any spectacular
change in profit-earning. Foi
this ieason the accounts for
1959 will be awaited with
particular interest.
Anthony Hordern Deposits
A nthony Hordern and Sons,
Ltd., the big Sydney-head-
quartered department-s tore
which recently took-over
Hordern Bros.’ and McCathies’
stores, is inviting cash deposits
from shareholders and others.
Interest at 8 p.c. p.a. will be
paid half-yearly on deposifs
for five years and upwards, 7
p.c. for three-five years, 6 p.c.
for three years, p.c. for
two years, 5 p.c. for one year,
and 4| p.c. for six months.
Money placed on deposit may
be withdrawn at one week’s
notice, subject to an appro-
priate adjustment in the
interest-rate according to the
actual period of the deposit.
The deposits are attractive,
and should appeal to many
seeking a fixed-interest security
with a satisfactory rate of
interest, plus the right of
prompt withdrawal subject to
appropriate interest adjustment.
Minimum deposit is £5O;
maximum £lO,OOO.
Peters—Pauls Merger
Queensland’s two ice-cream
and milk giants, Peters
Arctic Delicacy Co., Ltd., and
Pauls, Ltd., have announced
plans for a proposed merger.
After a week of hectic trading
on the Stock Exchange, share-
holders of both companies were
offered four ss. shares in a
holding-company for every
three shares held in their
respective companies.
Preparatory to the share-
exchange, shareholders in Pauls
will receive a one-for-six bonus-
issue. Peters’ capital was in-
creased late last year by a
one-for-three free handout, to
stand at £426,666. Dividend is
forecast at 10 per cent. '
Both firms have been ex-
panding into a wide range of
frozen foods. Profits have
been largely ploughed-back to
finance modern plant and ex-
tensive depot systems.
The market appeared to over-
anticipate the merger. On the
official announcement Pauls
sold down from 225. 6d. to
19s. 9d. and Peters from
20s. 6d. to 16s. lid.
National Dairy’s expansion
policy has prompted heavy
speculation as to the future of
the holding-co.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
r
Vintage Wines
N S W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
ARCHIBALD, WYNNE, SULMAN
/'"Vf the 217 entries in the
Archibald Competition
(Sydney) 64 were accepted for
hanging; 91 out of 259 for the
Wynne ; and 29 out of 55 for
the Sulman.
William Dobell won the
Archibald (his third win, and
his first since “Margaret Olley”'
in 1948) with a portrait of Dr,
Edward MacMahon. It is
powerful, yet —for want of a
more apt term—informal.
To the casual observer it is
simply a picture of a doctor
in his operating-clothes, his
hands folded. But the hands,
large and cased in rubber
gloves, are immediately
striking; and so is the solidity
and expression of the face. The
background, sketchy and
watery-green, complements the
casual execution of the theatre-
coat, and it is this inner loose-
ness—sustained in the swift,
powdery brush-strokes on the
subject’s coat —that sweeps the
viewer’s eye to the face.
This impression almost,
allowing for the intentionally
disproportionate definition of
the hands, of studied careless-
ness—is rarely evident in the
other entries, most of which
exploit the conventionality of
deliberate posing. One should
mention, though, Clifton Pugh’s
sensitive portrait of David
Armstrong, in which a chess-
board tends to lead the viewer
to the relaxed figure ; Jon Mol-
vig’s green subtlety in his
Russell Cuppaidge painting;
Charles Bush’s self-portrait
with abstract background;
Inson’s surface-softness in his
Ivy Shore picture ; and Clyve
Elliott’s half-abstract lady.
Dobell’s other entry, a paint-
ing of Sir Leon Trout, seems
less immediate in appeal than
his winning oil; but, in its
quiet blue-green pastel delinea-
tion, it is a thoroughly com-
petent piece of work.
Wynne Competition
Reinis Zusters took the prize
with the abstract “Harbor
Cruise”—a sparkling cluster of
hinted shapes with a melon-
shaped Bridge in the back-
ground. Generally speaking,
the abstracts on display are dis -
appointing ; it is left to Gleg-
horn, with his colorful mathe-
matics in two large oils, to
supply firm abstract statements.
“ Marvellous — I'll book the young lady!”
Molvig has a bizarre “Noc-
turne Landscape,” and R.
Lambert and Charles Saxton
are at least daring.
Among the realists there are
any number of bush- and boat-
scenes —good examples in this
category come from Elsie
Dangerfield, with tree-stumps
and boats; Mollie Flaxman,
with Gruner-like softness on
country hills; and Ragless,
with a flat, hot “Birdsville
Track.”
Sulman Competition
There is some very varied
work in this section. The judges
awarded the prize to Susan
Wright for “Circus” a
spacious, bustling ringside
scene with blue ponies to help
the feeling of movement. Mary
Troy has a stylised millinery-
shop ; Weaver Hawkins a
frightening mass of orange
drainage-pipes; Bob Dicker-
son two more of his sad-faced
youths ; and Wallace Thornton
a large, yellowy and not alto-
gether soothing beach-piece.
Some of the abstracts are
singular, especially Elwyn
Lynn’s “Sundown,” with its
two grotesque figures.
A. W.
Stage and Music
“Prisoners’ Country’*
Every one of us lives in some
sort of prison, the walls and
bars of which may be real or
imaginary. Prominent among
our jailers are our convictions
(as Nietzsche noted), our past,
our environment, our poverty,
our wealth, our relationships
with our fellows. For the
majority of us there is no
escaping these tyrants. Hence,
whether We care to acknow-
ledge it or not, we are all
more-or-less placed in the posi-
tion of having to await the
coming of that rarest of beings
the genius—or, to borrow again
from Nietzsche, the superman
—the one person capable of
showing us the way out of our
frustrations.
Alas, these are few. Worse,
they are extraordinarily diffi-
cult to recognise. Worse still,
when we do find one in our
midst we have a tragic tendency
to resent him, whip-up a storm
of mass anger against him, and,
forgetful of the lessons of
history, persecute him in the
name of some spurious ideal.
Vance Palmer knew this
well. Time and again in his
novels he showed us men, in
essentials not much different
from ourselves, vainly exhaust-
ing their energies in battle
against the inescapable confines
of their lives.
As its title indicates,
“Prisoners’ Country” (Mel-
bourne Union) deals with such
a theme. It is unmistakably
the play of a novelist and, prob-
ably because of this, often fails
in terms of theatre ; yet it has
much that is of value ; and it
has the distinction of being
Palmer’s last work for the
stage.
Completed shortly before
the author’s death last August,
“Prisoners’ Country” is not so
much a play which explores a
particular situation as a series
of character-sketches.
The chief character is Old
Cunningham, the ageing
pioneer cattleman struggling
against odds too great for him
to prevent the collapse of the
world he has spent all his life
building-up on an outback
station in Australia’s North-
west. Then there is Cunning-
ham’s son Floyd, tortured by
memories of four years in a
Japanese p.-0.-w. camp, and
who now, presumably as a
result of this experience, abhors
physical violence of any sort
and finds that he has probably
more sympathy for the ways of
the aborigines (the chant of
a nearby tribe recurs through-
out the play) than for any
“civilised” man. There are


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
Floyd’s stepmother, city-bred
and at odds with the outback
environment; the two half-
castes, one an aggressive
overseer, the other submissive
in all,things, but, as it turns
out in one of the most signi-
ficant of the play’s too
numerous climaxes, stubborn
as a mule when it comes to a
direct test of physical (and,
doubtless, racial) strength
against Old Cunningham ; .and
lastly, Duggan’s daughter, who
doesn’t make much headway
in a one-sided love-affair with
Floyd.
Palmer has outlined each
of these characters warmly and
invested them with an impres-
sive depth and reality. It is
only when we try to follow his
conception of them as symbols
of issues of a wider significance
that they lose their force. One
feels that had Palmer been able
to work more on the play,
especially after seeing it in
rehearsal, he would have
rewritten parts of it in an effort
to draw out his themes more
cleanly and compellingly.
It is a play that needs vital,
imaginative and perhaps ruth-
less direction. Unfortunately
John Sumner has not given it
that. Rather, one gets the
impression that, due to a
natural reluctance to tamper
with the last words of a man
who has meant so much to
Australian letters, Sumner has
allowed the script to speak
more-or-less for itself; and
where it sags the production
sags with it.
Another weakness was the
casting of Lewis Fiander as
Old Cunningham. Fiander,
for all his skill (and masses of
make-up), just couldn’t hide the
fact that not far behind it all
he was a rather pleasant young
actor desperately trying to
imitate a not - always - so-
pleasant old cattleman.
Despite a suspicion that
George Ogilvie (Duggan) might
have been better suited to the
part of Floyd, he nevertheless
turned-in a memorable per-
formance as one of the two
half-castes.
A. S. J.
‘Two for the Seesaw”
This, a first play- by
American William Gibson,
comes to Sydney Royal with
an enormous Broadway success
behind it; it has run for two
years there.
Its success is easy enough
to understand. It is an arti-
culate, fluent and sometimes
sensitive play; it cleverly
presents a situation that is
basically very interesting; it
has a certain tenderness and
humor. Yet in the end it fails
to satisfy, for, like so many
modem American writers,
Gibson seems unable to detach
himself from his characters and
their own evaluation of them-
selves ; he stops well short of
the dramatic truth about them,
shying away into wisecracks
and wistfulness.
“Two for the Seesaw”
concerns a provincial American
lawyer who comes to New
York to shake-off the stultify-
ing helpfulness and indulgence
of his wife and her wealthy
father, and there, drowning in
loneliness without his accus-
tomed emotional supports,
seeks the company of a rather
frayed girl from the edges of
the city’s bohemia.
The girl is his counterpart —
one who. has given herself too
freely and too long as an
emotional prop to others —and
they see in each other the
answer to their deepest wants.
She needs emotional support
now, and he needs to give it.
But he cannot easily erase
his wife, who, though she never
materialises, is always as near
as the telephone—sometimes
nearer. Throughout the play
only the lawyer and the girl
appear on stage, and the three
acts trace out a sort of
temperature-chart of their
fumbling attempts to know and
love each other—the climbing
lines of coarsely tender
intimacy, the peak's of passion,
the slopes of quarrel as the
unseen wife slips like a glass
wall between them, and the
troughs of frustrated misunder-
standing.
Of course, the affair doesn’t
work out; and, in spite of its
three or four excellent scenes,
neither does the play. The
author, like the audience,
knows all along how it must
end, but he cannot find the
dramatic logic in it. He sends
us home with a lot of earnest
talk about the difference
between love and “being in
love”—some of it meaningless,
most of it sounding like cliches
from the glossy magazines, and
none of it making a true outlet
for the tensions created.
Much has been made of the
fact that there are only two
people in the cast; but anyone
who imagines that this device
would throw the dramatic
development off balance would
be quite right. It is hard to
see why the author arranged
it like that. Possibly he did it
to heighten the effect of the
couple's apartness from the
world outside, their' utter
absorption in the affair. But
this effect is clearly not worth
the difficulties it imposes on
everyone concerned.
It forces the author to
weight certain scenes with
expository talk which, though
very cleverly done, would be
better dramatised. It often
forces him into something like
contrivance to hold outf
interest —there is far more
telephoning, mood-switching
and conventionally daring talk
about biological functions than
character or situation really
demands; and there are so
many climaxes throughout that
the final one inevitably seems
anticlimactic. Most fatally, the
device creates the impression
that the theme is too private
by nature for so essentially
public a place as the stage, and
that it could perhaps have been
better and more economically
handled as a short-story.
The difficulties thus con-
fronting producer William
Rees and his cast are obvious,
and it is a pleasure to be able
to report that they nevertheless
served the play admirably.
True, one could have wished
for a more certain grip of the
finer strands of character than
Grant Taylor, as the lawyer,
provided ; but he is an actor of
considerable strength and
presence, and he able
to hold this part firmly
together.
The character of the girl—
coarse, generous, frightened
and brave—is easily the best
thing in the play, and Diana
Perryman, despite some early
wavering (first-night stress?),
rose to it with a full and
tender understanding. Hers
was the sort of performance
that almost supplied the
deficiencies of the play.
Special praise to Joe White
and J. Alan Kenyon, who
designed the adjustable set that
swings the scenes between two
convincing apartments.
Organ Society Convention
Sydney Organ Society’s 1960
convention started last Friday
evening at St. Andrew's
Cathedral with a recital of
modern organ-works by
cathedral organist Mervyn J.
Byers.
Highlight of the recital was
the bracket of three passa-
caglias: one by W. G. Alcock,
one by C. S. Lang and one by
American composer Leo
Sowerby.
Alcock is comparatively
dated in style ; but although he
sometimes reflects the lusher
characteristics of the Vic-
torian period he is at all times
interesting, and this passacaglia
shows his mastery of sheer
organ effect (there are tuba
flourishes in the opening bars).
When Alcock was in his
seventies he made a regular
practice of hurdling his front-
gate after getting back from
playing morning-service at
Salisbury Cathedral; this prob-
ably helped his pedal-work. At
any rate, organists these days
find some of his pedal-passages
very tricky.
Lang’s passacaglia subject is
fairly similar to Alcock’s, but
his decoration is less given to
conventional exploitation of
key and rhythm. This is an
energetic and sharply punctu-
ated piece of writing, rising to
a brilliant declamation of might
at the end.
Sowerby’s theme is loftier
than the other two —it seems
to rest on a series of peaks. It
leaves the other two passa-
caglias for dead in the matter
of lyricism—broken rhythms
are at all times subservient to
the length of phrases. Curiously,
the first variation sounds rather
like “Blue Moon.” There is an
unusual staccato entry of the
theme in one spot; and a night-
club-swing effect of retarded
emphasis late in the work.
Except for a few thunder-
bolts in the Howells “Paean,”
the four short modern pieces
played between the passa-
caglias were generally soft and
restful. An important recital,
beautifully played.
A. W.
♦ * ❖
“Odd Man In”
Here, at Melbourne Comedy,
is a slightly new variation of
the eternal triangle-three




■
m w.m&
m&m
3- *>.
,
!**«■?
k&
,;,•" ■ • _./
w*:
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
o
PER ANNUM
5 OR 1®
YEARS
LONG TERM
3OR IO YEARS S%
4 YEARS 7%
3 YEARS 6i%
2 YEARS 6%
Interest paid quarterly,
free of exchange in Australia
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
L. J. HOOKER (Chairman)
G. S. NEWELL (Deputy Chairman)
D. H. B. ADAMS, N. C. BURNS, N. F. HENWOOD,
J. E. LIGHTEOOT, W. V. LIGHTFOOT, N. R. PULVER,
W, T. RUSSELL, E. J. .WALKER.
HOW
TO
INVEST
Prospectus and application forms may be
obtained from: —
• Any Branch of Bank of New South
Wales, or
# Any Branch of Commonwealth Trading
Bank of Australia
• Ralph W. King & Yuill
§ Any other Member of a Recognised
Stock Exchange.
# Any Branch of L. J. Hooker Limited
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, GRAFT ON, ARMIDALE
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Applications for Debentures will proceed only on one
of the Forms of Application attached to a printed copy
of the Prospectus.
L. J. HOOKER INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED
126 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
Without obligation, please send me a Debenture Prospectus
NAME
ADDRESS
characters, one faintly familiar
situation.
Jane, the pretty, understand-
ably bored wife of George
Maxwell, takes a draught in
her husband's absence to help
her get some sleep. She only
drinks half the glass, however,
and it’s not long before the
inevitable happens. Mervyn
Browne's car breaks-down, and
he goes to the Maxwells’ house
for help. Believing the draught
to be water, he drinks the
remaining half of it and,
naturally enough, falls asleep
on the bed alongside Mrs.
Maxwell.
Husband George turns-up
unexpectedly early, finds the
slumbering pair, explodes
somewhat anaemically, demands
explanations, etc. Browne,
though originally innocent,
turns out to be quite a lady-
killer, and eventually • Mrs.
Maxwell gets the idea that he
wants to marry her.
But rest assured: playwright
Claude Magnier (as represented
in this adaptation from the
French by Robin Maugham,
a nephew of Somerset) is no
heretic Ibsen ; everything is
going to turn out all right. In
a surprise-twist shortly before
the curtain falls on the last act
husband and wife make it up,
and Browne finds himself
£3OOO poorer and the unwilling
owner of a country cottage.
All of which, constructed
slickly and spiced with pert
and economical dialogue,
including a couple of curtain
punch-lines which succeed
marvellously, is thoroughly
entertaining, if without much
substance. Moreover, it serves
to bring to our notice once
again the compelling charm and
effortless technique of the two
English principals (seen previ-
ously in “The Gazebo”), Derek
Farr and Muriel Pavlow.
The triangle’s third (and
most sharply satirised) arm is
supplied by Noel Ferrier, who
fitted his part so perfectly that
it seemed to have been tailored
specially for him.
Films
“Pillow Talk”
In spite of the cynics, the
venerable mistaken - identity
theme can be given a new twist,
and in this brightly entertain-
ing confection a party-line
(not the ideological sort) does
the trick; sophistication,
dialogue of some wit and
polish, piquant situations and
good pace lending considerable
aid.
Interior - decorator Doris
Day conducts a feud by phone
with songwriter Rock Hudson,
who is given to wasting large
slabs of time talking to his
female adorers on the line he
and Doris share from their
separate flats. They meet, he
knowing her identity, she un-
aware of his, and to avoid the
gelid glare he adopts the role
of a big-talking Texas cattle-
man in town for a high time.
They click ; and his efforts to
conceal his true identity in the
face of rapidly changing situa-
tions keeps the fun simmering.
Miss Day’s easy mainten-
ance of a joyous, carefree air
lends attraction to the set-up,
and Rock Hudson moves into
romantic comedy with some
facility.
At Sydney State.
*** ***
“The Bridal Path”
The Outer Hebrides have
yielded no little riches to
British screen-comedy, but in
this one, partly set on Beg,
the lode doesn’t assay so well.
The situations flowing from
a young island farmer’s deci-
sion to visit the Scottish main-
land in search of a wife —a
decision recommended by his
family to avoid consanguinity ;
the only eligible female on
Beg being his cousin—run
through well-worn courses and
in some cases are positively
corny. A Kenneth More might
have wrung some laughs out of
the more farcical of them, but
they’re all a bit much for Bill
Travers. So, instead of being
riotous, it all has the air of
sobriety trying timidly to kick
over the traces. A saving grace
is the beauty of the Scottish
countryside.
At Sydney Embassy.
♦♦♦ +*♦ *♦♦
The remaining Sydney re-
lease is “Pork Chop Hill”
(Esquire), which belongs to the
ever-growing horde of fumbled
attempts to portray war. It
tediously displays some G.l.s
who, under Lieut. Gregory
Peck, have to take and hold
a Korean hill. No attempt is
made to develop character ; all
is confusion and noise ; and
Peck, subdued under the
weight of a hopeless assign-
ment, limits his activity to
yanking a map out every so
often, stabbing at it with a
forefinger and barking: “Let’s
get outa here!” or “Let’s push
on, men!” After a while one
couldn’t resist taking his
advice.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Tilt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
R. H. AIXISN
P. R. tEVV
M. R. E. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange.
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911.
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900."
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.
A household name today, thanks to
its flair for imaginative marketing
and vigorous, unrelenting advertising,
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd., has become a
classical example of a remarkably suc-
cessful Australian business which had
its beginnings in modest circumstances
in a difficult economic period. The
original Australian Motorists Petrol Co.,
Ltd., was established in 1936, armed
with £200,000 paid capital and an iron
determination to break into the tightly-
knit exclusive club of petrol-selling firms.
The year 1945 brought Australia the
V-E and V-J days, and the co. its first
big acquisition. Alba Petroleum Co. of
Australia Pty. was taken-over, giving
the nine-year-old business its first major
inter-State foothold in Melbourne.
Expansion in the 15 post-war years has
been phenomenal, and Ampol (the
present name was adopted in 1948) is
now in the front rank, next to its mighty
competitors.
Ampol’s board retained and empha-
sised a distinct native flavor about the
business, and fully exploits this valuable
Australian origin. Remarkable
consumer goodwill was established and
the momentum of growth maintained.
Ampol’s pioneering of, and present
association with, the Wapet oil-search
venture in W.A. have been of invaluable
publicity and goodwill value to the whole
Ampol enterprise.
Ampol is now a leading distributor of
a complete range of petroleum products
in all States. It operates a fleet of its
own and chartered ocean-going tankers.
Recently an association was formed with
B. F. Goodrich Australia Pty., Ltd., to
manufacture motor-tyres at Somerton
(Vic.). Construction of the plant (90 p.c.
the work of Australian engineers) is
three months ahead of schedule and
Ampol (which holds 41.49 p.c. of the
issued stock) expects to be selling the
new Goodrich tyres next March.
The co. owns 70 p.c. of the issued
capital of Ampol Exploration, Ltd.,
providing a definite national speculative
interest to its 37,958 share-, note- and
option-holders.
* Over the last 10 years Ampol’s sales-
gallonage has risen by almost five times.
Both net profit before tax and assets
have increased more than tenfold. The
dividend-rate has climbed steadily from
to 13| p.c. p.a.
Ampol’s last year—its 23rd in business
—was marked by increases in turnover,
earnings, assets, reserves and capital.
Rising earnings were helped by the
introduction of Ampol’s Boron motor-
spirit. Material costs absorbed a some-
what smaller proportion of total revenue.
Service and overhead expenses decreased
from 20.15 p.c to 19.42 p.c. However,
duty went up from 21.28 p.c. to 22.63
p.c.:
Operating-expenses, .Appropriations, etc„ as a
Percentage op Total Revenue.
1957. 1958. 1959.
p.c. p.c. p.c.
Material costs .. .. 43.82 41.09 40.51
Duty .. .. .. 21.85 21.28 22.63
Services and overhead .. 17.71 20.15 19.42
Salaries and wages .. 6.44 6.51 6.48
Depreciation .. .. 2.64 2.79 2.22
Income tax 3.15 3.17 3.08
Dividends 3.15 3.63 4.11
Retained earnings .. .. 1.24 1.3& 1.55
100.00 100.00 100.00
Sales and other revenue for the year
ended September 30, 1959, increased by
£3,093,193 to £32,547,096, a rise of 10|
p.c. Turnover gallonage went up by
26,856,649 gallons to 195,367,831 gallons.
Disclosed consolidated net profit in-
creased by £155,606 to £1,866,613.
After allowing £60,000 for the dividend
on pref. capital, this represented 19.4
p.c. on the larger average ord. capital
employed, compared with 22.1 p.c., 21.7
p.c.,' 17 p.c., and 19.1 p.c. in the four
years back to 1956:
Dividends —Nominal
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1955 .. 585,948 6 121 405,512 2,832,541
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 2,812,541
Note-issue expenses, £37,500 .. 2,775,041
Reserves capitalised, £745,244 .. 2,029,797
Share-premiums, £440,756 .. 2,470,553
To capital reserve, £150,000 .. 2,620,553
Revaluation fixed assets, £1,213,972 3,834,525
1956 .. 779,820 6 124 526,202 4,088,143
Reserves capitalised, £994,237 .. 3,093,906
Share-premiums, £11,051 .. .. 3,104,957
Tax overprovided, £30,161.. .. 3,135,118
Share-issue expenses, £9610 .. 3,125,508
To staff fund, etc., £48,002 .. 3,077,506
1957 ..1,436,519 6 121 812,825 3,701,200
Share-premiums, £5477 .. .. 3,706,677
Capital profit, £49,592 .. .. 3,756,269
Reduction oil-search reserve,
£139,656 3,616,613
Tax overprovided, £25,000 ~ 3,641,613
To staff fund, £32,661 .. .. 3,608,952
Note-issue expenses, £3728 .. 3,605,224
1958 ..1,711,007 6 131 1.068,063 4,248,168
Share premiums, £750,000 .. .. 4,998,168
Reduction oil-search res., £55,838 4,942,330
To staff fund, £24,169 4,918,161
1959 ..1,866,613 6 131 1,336,555 5,448,219
* Subject to intangibles, £339,500 at 30/9/’59.
This was after setting aside £721,678
(down £99,857) for depreciation and
providing £1,002,239 (up £67,952) for
taxation. Ordinary div.-rate remained
steady at 13| p.c. on the increased
capital, absorbing £1,276,555 (up
£268,492).
The reduction in depreciation provi-
sion was due “solely to an alteration
in depreciation rates for drums and
pumps.” Experience has shown that the
life of these assets, under efficient main-
tenance, is longer than originally antici-
pated.
The fall in earning-rate on the average
ord. capital was said to be due to “certain
capital-expenditure” (including Ampol’s
contribution to B. F. Goodrich Aus-
tralia Pty.) which did not become
income-producing in last term.
Oil-search reserve was reduced by
£55,838 through “amounts paid out for
capital contributions to oil-search”
during the year. Staff fund was allotted
£24,169. Reserves received £530,058 and
also benefited by £750,000 share-
premiums on the recent placement of
Ampol shares. Total nominal reserves
and undistributed profits were £5,448,219,
subject to £339,500 intangibles, at
September 30, 1959.
There were important capital changes
during the year. A new issue of six-
million ss. ords., l-for-6 at par, was
completed by September 1, 1959, bring-
ing in £1,500,000. A further million ss.
ords. were placed through J. B. Were
and Son, at a high premium (15s. 6d.)
a share, netting Ampol £750,000 in share-
premiums.
There was some criticism of this share-
placement, particularly in certain
quarters in London which felt that the
co. should have raised the required
capital by a cash “rights” issue.
L. J. Thompson, Ampol’s chairman,
at the anniial meeting, said that at the
time of the placement the co. “faced
a need for funds urgently to take advan-
tage of service-station sites which became
available, and to commence construction
work on them within a limited time
specified by agreement between the in-
dustry and State Governments.”
The amount involved (including
plant, equipment and other necessary
facilities) was to the tune of £5,000,000.
Of this £1,000,000 was required within
a few months. “The board decided,
therefore, to take advantage of the
favorable market, and had one-million
shares underwritten* for placement, as
widely as possible, at 20s. 6d., which
included a premium of 15s. 6d. per
share.” The board expects that the new
service-stations will “greatly increase”
the volume of sales, and feels it was
expedient “to resort to a placement
issue at a very high premium in order
to counteract the inflationary prices” for
station-sites.
During the last five years Ampol
averaged one “rights-” issue a year
(aggregating about 31.5 million ords. or
convertible notes, yielding a capital in-
crease of £7.9 million). In addition,
there were two bonus-issues in the same


A. L. NEYITT & CO.
A. D. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hudsonian" Brisbane
J. 8. & FRANK CHARLTON
F. B. Charlton, J. F. Charlton, J. M. Fay, C.A.B. Marjason, J. L. Russell
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange .)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Third door, City Mutual Building, 309 Queen St., Brisbane
Telephone: 3 3775, 2 4349 G.P.O. Box No. 61A
period. Total paid-up capital at balance-
date was £11,695,859 in £1,000,000 20s.
prefs. and £10,695,859 in ss. ords.:
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £8,128,284 £9,378,241 ; £ 11,695,859
Reserves .. 3,701,200 4,248,168 5,448,219
Loans .. .. 1,236,317 1,238,950 1,228,950
Notes .. .. 2,968,300 4,461.908 4,461,908
Overdraft .. 1,942,775 700,626 3,091,600
Creditors . . 3,939,357 3,328,544 5,819,674
Loan by subsid. • 90,000
Staff funds . . 54,000 59,000 46,948
Tax provision. . 843,000 960,871 1,025,000
Final dividends 410,617 524,281 672,195
£23,223,850 £24,900,589 £33,580,353
Freeholds, etc. [ 45594477 16,715,133 22,830,494
Plant, etc. j
Shares Ampol
Exploration . 1,417,940 1,417,940 1,417,940
Shares other cos. 3,247 31,784 556,276
Advance to sub-
sidiary . . 102,000 75,000 —-
Note-redemption
Fund . . 30,000 61,891 90,000
Stocks . . 2,273,537 2,271,652 2,993,831
Debtors, cash,
etc. . . 3,473,685 3,987,689 5,354,112
Intangibles .. 328,964 339,500 337,700
£23,223,850 £24,900,589 £33,580,353
Loans and notes (convertible on
1 / 5 / ’63) remained practically unchanged,
but bank accommodation increased by
£2,390,974 to £3,091,600. Creditors were
£2,491,130 higher at £5,819,674 (includ-
ing £1,927,000 short-term deposits with
the co.). New short-term loans amounted
to £90,000.
Freeholds, plant' etc., leapt by
£6,115,361 to a massive £22,830,494.
This item mainly consists of service-
stations and land purchased for future
development. Interest in Ampol Explora-
tion remained unchanged, but scrip held
in other cos. went up by £524,492 to
£556,276. Stocks increased by £722,179
and debtors, cash, etc., by £1,366,423.
Net tangible asset-backing worked out
at £l6 16s. 2d. each for the 20s. prefs.
and £1 9s. sd. for the ss. ords. Working-
capital was £242,879 lower at £2,091,106.
A new issue of about 16,460,000 ss. 6
p.c. notes at par (convertible into ords. on
April 1, 1967) will be made next March.
All stock and noteholders registered on
January 15, 1960, will participate on
a l-for-3 basis. The notes, payable
2s. 6d. on application and 2s. 6d. by
June 1, 1960, will bring in approximately
£4,115,000 cash.
The co.’s staff fund had another profit-
able year, earning £144,757. As the co.
bears all the administrative expenses the
profit was distributed among members.
Assets now exceed £1,250,000. A unit-
trust co. is being established, bringing
“people’s capitalism” to Ampol’s staff.
Following the entry of the Shell group
as the fourth partner in Wapet’s explora-
tion activity, Ampol’s financial com-
mitment for this purpose was “substan-
tially reduced” last term, but is expected
to increase in the current financial year.
During 1959 five wells were completed,
with small shows of oil in four. Explora-
tion-work continued with main emphasis
on geophysical work to locate optimum
drilling-sites.
During last year the co.-owned tanker
William G. Walkley and its chartered
fleet carried 720,000 tons of petroleum
products from Sumatra to Australia. The
co. controlled 150,000 tons of shipping.
On September 17, Ampol took delivery
of its second tanker, the 24,000-ton
Belgian-built Leslie J. Thompson. A
new 32,250-ton tanker, now under con-
struction by B.H.P. at Whyalla, will be
delivered in 1962. The depressed state
of the world tanker-market cut-off the
co.’s earnings from sub-chartering its
fleet.
Work has commenced on a new ter-
minal at Port Kembla (N.S.W.). Another
seaboard terminal is planned at Port
Alma, near Rockhampton (N.Q.).
Ampol is continuing its policy of
decentralisation to allow concentration
on key areas and more personalised ser-
vice. New service-stations are being
completed to “safeguard Ampol’s posi-
tion in the retail market” following the
agreement to “rationalise” such construc-
tion as from September 1, 1959. Com-
pletion of these stations will increase the
co.’s service-units by about 22 p.c.
Under the “rationalisation” agreement
construction of service-stations will be
drastically reduced during a three-year
period beginning February 1, 1960. No
new service-stations were built after
September 1, 1959.
Ampol’s ss. ords. are available at
20s. 9d. (to yield 3.2 p.c. p.a.). Rights
last sold for 10s. each. Buyers offer
17s. 6d. for the ss. conv. notes, but
sellers are holding out for 20s. The
20s. prefs. fetched 20s. Id. each.
A. J. Veal] Electrics, Ltd.
/■'Vperating through a group of 17 sub-
sidiaries, A. J. Veall Electrics is a
manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer of
electrical, radio and refrigeration equip-
ment, TV-receivers and other appliances.
The co. holds 1,300,000 20s. 15 p.c.
prefs. (shown at £1,800,000) in Corartie
Pty., a hire-purchase and investment con-
cern. The associate is a good profit-
spinner, but Veall’s income from this
source is rather static, although oppor-
tunities may arise to enlarge its share-
participation.
Corartie Pty. holds shares in some 200
listed cos., and its two subsidiaries handle
hire-purchase for the group (and other
retailers), thus in turn sharing in Veall’s
fortunes. H.-p. outstandings last year
stood at £2,015,740, slightly in excess of
the previous term’s figure.
The original business was established
in Melbourne in 1911. The holding-co.
was set-up in 1951, when A. J. Veall
Electrics, Ltd., paid £350,000 in scrip,
plus £150,000 cash to acquire the issued
capitals of 11 operating private cos.
Issues of prefs. in 1954 and 1956 lifted
Veall’s pref. capital to the present level
of £475,000. Also, in 1956, a one-for-one
bonus issue doubled the co.’s ord. capital
to £1,000,000, unchanged since then.
Earnings over the last five years have
been fairly even, with an upward trend
(except in the last term). In 1955 the
co. doubled Its 10 p.c. ord. div. to 20
p.c., but next year reduced it to 15 p.c.,
maintaining that rate ever since.
Last year was characterised by a
definite slackening in TV sales and
consumer - finance business. Demand
neared saturation-point pending the
opening-up of new areas in Queensland,
S.A., W.A. and Tasmania. Trading con-
ditions were highly competitive, but the
co., not relying exclusively on TV, suc-
ceeded in avoiding a sharp fall in earn-
ings.
Consolidated trading-profit before tax
for the year ended June 30, 1959, was
£16,532 lower at £105,833. This was
after providing £17,293 (up £3396) for
depreciation, paying £37,362 interest on
fixed borrowings, £3250 directors’ and
audit fees, writing-off bad debts and
deducting all other charges and expenses.
Income from investments was almost
unchanged at £195,674.
Provision for taxation was £7958 lower
at £44,477, leaving consolidated net profit
£8384 lower at £264,988:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends serves. serves.*
Pref. Ord.
£ £ £ £ £
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
1954. .103,287 6,650 50,000 46,637 317,176
Profit sale assets, £129 .. .. 317,305
Assets revalued, £517,250 .. .. 834.555
Unexplained reduction, £9197 .. 825,358
20 p.c.
1955. .204,925 12,000 100,000 92,925 918,283
Reserves capitalised, £500,000 ~ 418,283
Loss sale assets, £32 .. .. .. 418,251
Tax overprovided, £2576 .. .. 420.827
Written-off intangible®. £10,195 .. 410,632
7 p.c. 15 p.c.
1956. .245.683 25,340 125,000 95,343 505,975
Profit sale assets, £516 .. .. 506,491
Tax underprovided, £3606 .. ~ 502,885
Share-issue expenses, etc., £1484 .. 501,401
Unexplained addition, £334 . . . . 501,735
1957. .249,027 33,615 150,000 65,412 567,147
Profit sale assets, £9602 .. .. 576,749
1958. .273,372 33,250 150,000 90,122 666,871
Profit sale assets, £509 .. .. 667,380
Tax overprovided, £2164 . . . . 669,544
1959. .264,988 33,250 150,000 81,738 751,282
* Subject to intangibles, £349,784 at 30/6/’59.
After satisfying the pref.-div. require-
ments (£33,250) the earning-rate on
average ord. capital was 23.2 p.c.,
compared with 24 p.c., 21.5 p.c. and 22
p.c. looking back . over three years to
1956.
Ordinary div.-rate remained steady at
15 p.c., absorbing £150,000. Reserves
received £81,738, and also benefited by
£509 profit from sale of assets and
£2164 taxation overprovided in the
previous term.
Balance-sheet disclosed £1,475,000 paid
capital backed by £751,282 reserves,
subject to £349,784 intangibles. Loans
on mortgage increased by £12,827 and
overdraft went up by £51,472 to £122,952.


0
REGISTERED FIXED
DEPOSIT NOTES
High return and sound security! Your
money is invested in first mortgages
on homes, real estate and selected
hire purchase. Check the advantages:
• 10% for 3 years and over, 9% for 2 years,
81% for 1 year, 8% for 6 months, 6|%
on 14 days’ call.
Renewal Interest Rate gives added benefits.
Invest with the company, or through the
Brokers to the Company, Messrs. Ralph W.
King & Yuill, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney, or
through your own Broker.
Send for Application Forms and
latest Balance Sheet.
Park House,
15 Park Street,
Sydney
BM 6945
EHMSEEEEEHE
Term-deposits were £264,100 higher at
£663,000, but creditors, etc., decreased by
£259,754 to £314,045.
Term-deposits with Corartie Pty. went
up by £114,678 to £600,000. Stock
decreased by £23,244 to £428,803.
Working-capital was £136,451 and
current ratio 1.1 to 1:
Paid capital— 3957. 1958. 1959.
pref £475,000 £475,000 £475,000
Ord 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Reserves .. .. 567,147 666,871 751,282
Mortgage .. 105,708 99,667 112,494
Notes 400,000 400,000
Overdraft . . .. 491,180 71,489 122.952
Deposits . . .. 80,000 398,900 663,000
Creditors, etc. .. 481,232 573,(99 bi*,u*s
Due associate co.. . 15,597
Tax provision . . 30,261 44,553 36,662
Final div. .. 91,625" 91,625 91,625
£3,322,153 £3,821,895 £3,982,657
Freehold . . . . 244,527 280,838 329,849
Plant, etc. .. 84,969 104,017 114,347
Shares .. .. 1,808,339 1,808,345 1,808,345
Stock .. .. 438,114 452,047 428,803
Debtors, etc. .. 331,709 340,773 343,519
Associate co. .. 62,547 485,322 600,000
Cash, etc. .. 6,415 5,<>20 8.010
Intangibles .. 345,533 345,533 349,784
£3,322,153 £3,821,895 £3,982,657
The book-value of freeholds was £49,011
higher at £329,849. Plant, etc., appeared
at £114,347 (up £10,330). During the
year a new retail store was opened in
the shopping-centre, Sydney Road,
Coburg (Vic.), with favorable results. In
addition, another wholesale-depot was
built in Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. The
co. intends to avail itself of further
opportunities for expansion in suitable
localities. Veall also acquired a store
in the new Chadstone shopping-centre on
Dandenong Road, Oakleigh (Vic.),
expecting to start trading late this year.
Veall’s investment in Corartie Pty. was
disclosed at a book-value of £1,800,000.
At June 30 last the associate co. held
shares in some 200 listed cos.; making-up
a comprehensive portfolio. The market-
value of investments “considerably
exceeded book-value.” Corartie’s direc-
tors were said to be “considering the
extension of finance operations into fields
other than hire-purchase.”
Trading conditions in the current term
are expected to be more favorable, and
Veall’s board is confident that the co.
“should continue to obtain its share of
the available business with satisfactory
results.”
In Melbourne the ss. ords. change
hands at 12s. Bd., offering an immediate
yield of 5.9 p.c. on the basis of a steady
15 p.c. div.-rate. The 7 p.c. 20s. prefs.
are quoted at 20s. 3d.
Net tangible asset-backing works-out
at 7s. for each ss. ord. unit and at
£3 19s. for the 20s. prefs.
Gordon Edgell and Sons, Ltd.
A vigorous expansion-programme cul-
minating last year in the acquisition
of Bird’s Eye Foods (Aust.) Pty. places
Gordon Edgell and Sons, Ltd., in the
forefront of the Australian food-pro-
cessing industry. Bird’s Eye Foods
(Aust.) Pty., until the takeover a part
of the vast Unilever empire, specialises
in the distribution of quick-frozen foods
to the retail trade. Following entry into
the new and rapidly expanding frozen-
food market, Edgell took-over in quick
succession the Crystal Ice and Cold
Storage Co. of Rozelle (N.S.W.) —thereby
acquiring much - needed zero - storage
premises in Sydney—and Quick Frozen
Food Distributors Pty., a co. engaged
in the distribution of frozen foods to
the catering trade. Earlier in the year
agreement was reached with the Gerber
Products Co., of Fremont, Michigan,
U.S.A., to produce and market Edgell/
Gerber Baby Foods in Australia. A
factory has been erected at Bathurst
(N.S.W.) for this purpose, and produc-
tion of baby-foods began last July.
Thus, apart from its well-established
and extensive range of canned vegetables,
soups and hot packs, Edgell is now mar-
keting a complete range of quick-frozen
foods in both retail and catering packs,
together with a wide and highly regarded
range of canned baby-foods. And, in
addition to these (its processing activi-
ties), Edgell grows much of its own
primary produce. The co.’s three can-
neries, two in N.S.W. (at Bathurst and
Cowra) and one in Tasmania (at Devon-
port) are situated in good agricultural
areas so as to allow economic handling
of the unprocessed raw materials.
Benefits from expansion weren’t
evident until late in the financial year.
Consequently they made little contribu-
tion to last term’s showing. Competition
remained keen, with profit-margins lower
than in the preceding year, so that, even
though turnover was higher than ever
before, profit continued a downward
trend and at £109,807 was down
£12,186:
T T, T ref - To Re- Re-
Profit. 64 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30, £ £ £ £ £
1950.. 69,607 3900 8 p.c. = 27,200 38,507 210,150
1951.. .0,411 3900 8 „ „ 27,200 39,311 249,461
Excess tax provision, £12,500 . . 261,961
s “are premiums, £32,538 .. .. 294,499
1952.. 51,263 3900 64 p.c. = 26,552 20,811 315,310
Capital profits, £12,219 .. .. 327,529
1953.. 38,288 3900 64 p.c. = 31,005 3,383 330,912
1904.. 78,730 3900 8 „ „ 38,160 36,670 367,582
Share premiums, £2550 .. . 370,132
Capital profit, £5019 375,151
1955.. 89,130 3900 8 p.c. = 41,878 43,352 418,503
Capital profit, £361 418,864
Share premiums, £ISOO .. .. 420,364
1956. .3 54,045 3900 10 p.c. = 65,295 84,850 505,214
Capital profit, £2839 ... .. .. 508,053
Share premiums, £2500 .. .. 510,553
1957. .159,865 3900 10 p.c. = 66,300 89,665 600,218
Tax overprovided, £11,348 .. .. 611,566
Capital loss, - £2941 608,625
1958. .121,993 3900 10 p.c. = 82,226 35,867 644,492
Capital profit, £11,320 .. .. 655,512
Share premiums, £50,250 .. .. 706,062
1959. .109,807 3900 10 p.c. = 88,982 16,925 722,987
The result, struck after setting aside
£59,850 (down £5150) for taxation and
£86,591 (up £5034) for depreciation,


CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO DESMOND JOHN HAYDEN late of
53 Watkin Street Newtown in the State
of New South Wales and of Tingha in
the said State.—TAKE NOTICE that
ROMA ELAINE HAYDEN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2795 of 1959
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney by 4th April 1960 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from GILBERT CHARLTON MURDOCH,
Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney, New
South Wales—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-2-3
406 COLXINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphking” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
works-out at 11.9 p.c. on
average ord. capital, after
allowing pref. entitlements —
there are 60,000 £1 6j p.c. cum.
pref. shares—and compares with
14.4 p.c. (again on average ord.
capital), 23.5 p.c., 22.9 p.c. and
1-6.3 p.c., the corresponding
figures back to 1954. Divs.
were held at 10 p.c. and ab-
sorbed £88,982 (the prefs. took
a further £3900). Lowered from
8 p.c. to 6j p.c. in 1952, raised
back to the 8 p.c. level in
1954, divs. were lifted to 10
p.c. in 1956.
Reserves, helped by share-
premiums (£50,250) and
capital-gains (£11,320) rose alto-
gether £78,495 to £722,987.'
The share-premium increment
resulted from the acquisition of
Quick Frozen Food Distri-
butors Pty and Crystal Ice and
Cold Storage C 0.—67,000 ords.
were issued at a 155.-per-share
premium.
Edgell's growth over recent
years developed a thirst for
liquid funds. Shareholders sub-
scribed a one-for-three par
issue in 1955 ; a one-for-four
par issue in 1957 ; in 1958 a
convertible-note issue (two 20s.
notes for every five ords. at
par); and, in the current term,
last November, a one-for-five
issue to noteholders and stock-
holders alike, premium of 10s.
attaching to each share.
It seems a fairly safe pre-
diction that, so long as present
rates of expansion continue,
shareholders will be called on
to provide further capital in the
near future, but earning-rates
will need to improve if a safe
margin over the 10 p.c. div. is
to be earned. Should Edgell’s,
however, decide to rest awhile
and consolidate the present
position and provided, too, that
capacity is fully utilised, profits
in relation to capital are likely
to flourish more quickly.
Balance-sheet figures are
testimony to the co.'s growing
stature. Book-values of free-
holds, plant and plantations
(many new plantations of
asparagus were established last
term) rose £330,059 to
£1,441,064, a solid advance
reflecting the additions, exten-
sions and modernisations
effected to buildings, plant and
equipment and including the
newly built baby-food factory
at Bathurst. During the year a
warehouse and an office were
bought in Adelaide.
The note-issue mentioned
earlier raised £333,139, and
liability on mortgage was re-
duced by £16,500 to £267,000:
Paid capital— 1958. 1959.
Pref £60.000 £60,000
Ord 828,750 . 895,750
Reserves .. 644,492 722,987
Notes .. .. 333,139
Mortgage .. 283,500 267,000
Overdraft ... 779,873 798,549
Creditors, etc. . . 130,684 564,360
Due to subsids. 66,600
Tax provision . . 65,000 59,390
Final div. .. 43,387 46,737
£2,835,686 £3,814,512
Freeholds ) 1,111,005 1,441,064
Plant . . S
Shares in subsids. 77,600
Stocks . . . . 1,486,077 1,880,968
Debtors . . . . 237,396 413,004
Cash, etc. .. 1,208 1,876
£2,835,686 £3,814,512
Theoretical working - capital
moved ahead £121,075 to
£826,812 ; stocks, which now
include baby-foods and frozen-
foods, were up £394,891 at
£1,880,968 ; debtors rose
£175,608 to £413,004 ; and over-
draft advanced slightly to
£798,549 (up £18,676). Creditors
increased more than fourfold
largely because of amounts
outstanding for the production
of baby-foods in June and for
purchases of frozen-foods from
the newly acquired businesses.
With its new acquisitions
digested, Edgell’s £1 stock-units
would appear to have reason-
able prospects at 40s. Im-
mediate yield is 5 p.c. Visible
net- tangible cover is 365. Id. for
the stock-units, £27 19s. 6d.
for the prefs.
Oil Search, Ltd.
IptNANCiAL position was con-
siderably improved and
elbow-room extended by the
issue of 11,340,000 ss. ords.
in April, 1959, underwritten by
lan Potter and co. and fully
subscribed by balance-date. A
further 32,633 ss. ords. were
allotted to shareholders in
Oriomo Oil, Ltd., following
transfer of their holdings to the
co.
At June 30, 1959, Oil Search,
Ltd., had a paid capital of
£5,689,919 [400,000 ss. vendor
f.-p. stock-units, 13,780,765
f.-p. ss. ords., 1896 ss. contribs.
and 11,340,000 ss. new-issue
(1959) ords., less unpaid capital
amounting to £690,746]: -
1058. 1959.
Paid capital . . £3,537,164 £5,689,919
Forfeited gliarc-s
a/c . . .. 752 752
Share - premiums 33,703 33,703
Sundry creditors 1,017 133,400
£3,572,636 £5,857,774
Equipment, etc. 7,321 8,913
Cash, deposits,
etc 227,516 2,219,192
Due associate cos. 6,619 5,014
Sundry debtors.. 88 236
Shares other cos. 2,871,017 3,013,189
Shares associated
cos 105,402 113,560
Preliminary ex-
penses .. 283,915 426,882
Field operations
cost .. .. 70,758 70,758-
£3,572,636 £5,857,774
Sundry creditors amounted to
£133,400. Cash, deposits, etc.,
jumped by £1,991,676 to
£2,219,192 as a result of the
new issue.
At balance-date Oil Search
held 1,819,056 f.-p. 20s. ords.
plus 202,118 ords. each paid to
9s. in Australasian Petroleum
Co. Pty. Total book-value (at
cost) was £1,910,009. Another
1,103,180 f.-p. 20s. ords. were
held in Island Exploration Co.
Pty.
In July, 1959, the co. was
allotted a further 1,706,642 20s.
ords. at par in Australasian
Petroleum, increasing its in-
terest in the Papuan oil-venture
from 10 p.c. to 15 p.c.
This was achieved by a sub-
sequent exchange of shares held
in the two operating-cos.
(A.P.C. and Island Explora-
tion). Payment is being made
progressively from the pro-
ceeds of the new share-issue.
The other 85 p.c. is held in
equal proportion by the two
major partners, B.P. Explora-
tion and Vacuum Oil.
In October, 1958, B.P. and
Vacuum had almost tossed-in
the towel in the active search
for oil in Papua. A 41| p.c.
interest was to be handed over
to a new Australian venture,
styled Papuan Oil Search, Ltd.,
duly incorporated with a
nominal capital of £6,000,000.
The new co. remained stillborn,
because the two major share-
holders hurried back to the
quest when the oil-strike at
Puri was made at the critical
moment. Plucky Oil Search
deserves full credit for its
determination to go on with
oil-prospecting in Papua in
what seemed a very hazardous
financial climate. It was in
these circumstances that the co,
enlarged its stake in A.P.C.
by 50 p.c.
Preliminary expenses (in-
cluding administration costs,
etc.) totalled £426,882 at June
30, 1959. Cost of field opera-
tions had absorbed another
£70,758, apart from similar
items covered-up in “shares in
other cos.”
Last year exploration con-
centrated in A.P.C.’s licence
No. 1, particularly around
Puri. The well itself has not
yet proved a commercial pro-
position. On the whole, the
results of additional ex-
ploratory work around Puri
were said to be “very disap-
pointing.”
Detailed reflection and
refraction seismic surveys com-
menced in May, 1959, and have
since covered an area of about
100 sq.-miles immediately south
of the Puri structure. Infor-
mation obtained “has done
much to elucidate the struc-
tural conditions of the area,
but so far a target for a test-
hole has not been delineated.”
Buyers offered ss. 11<J- for
each ss. stock-unit in this
popular black-gold national
lottery.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
7 S YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, January 19, 1960.
New Zealand Stock Ex-
changes did not reopen till
January 14, when the big
gains already recorded by Aus-
tralian shares on their home
markets were promptly
reflected.
Some investors have ex-
pressed dissatisfaction that,
because local Exchanges and
brokers’ offices were closed,
they were unable to operate
during the first eight days of
the Australian share-boom.
Probably most people, how-
ever, were too busy enjoying
their own holidays to bother
much. That was indicated by
the quiet opening of the N.Z.
section of, the market.
Nevertheless, the Stock Ex-
change might well consider
providing at least a skeleton
service in future years. If the
Australian market opened with
a big price-slide—as it might
some time complaints by
compulsorily inactive N.Z.
investors would be much more
bitter than they were this
year.
Investors who have dealt
with a N.Z. broker all the
year can hardly be expected
to make contact with an
Australian broker in an
emergency.
The market for N.Z. shares
has not yet got into its stride,
but limited business so far
reported indicates an early
firming trend.
With higher wages, lower
taxes and, probably, increased
Government spending, the out-
look in this election-year
seems to be for continued
inflation.
Company-dividend Tax
A bull point for the N.Z.
market is the possibility that
a change in Government this
year might bring some reduc-
tion in the present grossly
and overlapping com-
pany- and dividend-taxes.
There has been a good deal
of Government prevarication
on this subject. The fact is
that a man paying a maximum
of 7s. in the £ income-tax pays
tip to 13s. 6d. in the £, includ-
ing Is. 6d. in the £ social-
security tax, on the earnings
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
of money 'which he has
invested in company shares.
In the case of most of the
companies whose ordinary
shares are listed on the Stock
Exchange, the company pays
10s. in the £, including Is. 6d.
in the £ social-security tax, on
all its net profit. It does this
on behalf of the shareholders
who own the company. Share-
holders then pay up to 7s. in
the £ on that part of the
remaining profit distributed as
dividend.
Company Results
During 1959 balance-sheets
were received from 181 New
Zealand companies with
ordinary shares listed by the
Stock Exchange.
Results, with those for 1958
in parentheses, may be sum-
marised as follows:
Profits: Up, 117 (133);
down, 64 (48).
Ordinary dividends: Up, 67
(61); down, 8 (16); steady, 106
(104).
It will be seen that, although
the ratio of profit-rises to
-falls was less favorable than
in 1958, the ratio of dividend-
rises to -falls was more favor-
able.
This was as expected. Earn-
ings in a good many cases
suffered in the aftermath of
the 1958 recession. Though
manufacturers were helped by
import-control, retailers were
adversely affected. Business in
general was checked by heavy
taxation and the initial impact
of Paye.
Some companies raised their
dividend-rates to avoid excess
retention-tax; others, more
numerous, did so to give share-
holders some compensation for
dividend-tax.
Business Outlook
The outlook for business in
the coming year is brighter.
Wool and butter prices have
made a strong recovery and
the meat market, the only dull
spot, has improved consider-
ably in the last few weeks.
Export receipts for the 11
months to the end of Novem-
ber were £277.6 million,
against £249.2 million in the
corresponding period last year.
Overseas reserves at January
6 were £84.4 million, against
£56 million a year before and
£43.8 million two years before.
Import-controls have been
eased and should be relaxed
further next year.
Business will be stimulated
by the recent general wage-
rise and by tax-cuts.
There have been hints lately
of some relaxation of financial
controls and of a more posi-
tive official attitude toward
development.
Farmers can approach the
New Year with “a fair measure
of confidence,” according to
the Minister of Agriculture,
Mr. Skinner. '
Reviewing short - term
marketing prospects, he said
that prices received for wool
at recent sales had been rela-
tively steady, at levels from
20 p.c. to 40 p.c. depend-
ing upon types—above those
of a year ago.
Production for the season
was expected to be some 70,000
bales above that of 1958-59,
and assuming an average price
of 45d. a lb., which was the
return so far received this sea-
son, the national wool-cheque
for 1959-60 should amount to
about £lO6 million, or about
£25 million more than last
year.
Regarding meat, Mr. Skinner
said the outlook was some-
what uncertain. though
brighter than it had been
during recent months.
He was still rather concerned
about market prospects for
major meat exports. In addi-
tion to the likelihood of
increased domestic production
of lamb in the United King-
dom, as sheep numbers were
built up, lamb was being
increasingly subjected to com-
petition from poultry meats,
the per capita consumption of
which had increased by 75 per
cent, since the pre-war years.
Export prices for butter and
cheese remained high, but the
very unforeseen course that
prices had taken showed that
market - forecasting was
hazardous.
A higher level of production
in Europe could be expected
in 1960.
At the same time there had
been certain developments
which must favorably influence
market prospects for dairy
produce.
The first of these was the
changed situation in the
United States, where dairy
surpluses had virtually disap-
peared. The second was the
adjustment by several Euro-
pean countries of their domes-
tic price-levels for dairy
products to encourage con-
sumption.
Tap-loan
With the announcement of
a tap-loan the N.Z. Govern-
ment has reverted to the system
which was introduced when
Labor first came into power in
1935.
The Stock Exchange doesn’t
like it.
“A country’s finances should
be run on a businesslike basis,
and it is not businesslike to go
on the market for a loan of an
unspecified amount with no
specified closing date,” said
the president, Mr. J. H.
Griffiths.
The Government continued
to accord itself preferential
treatment on the loan-market,
he said.
“On the one hand, it is
asking the public for an
unspecified amount to finance
its works, while on the other
it restricts the expansion of
the private sector through the
Capital Issues Committee,” he
said.
For many years it had been
obvious that the activities of
the Capital Issues Committee
were impeding the progress of
the country.
“Australia’s rapid develop-
ment in the last few years—•
without capital-issues restric-
tions —supports the argument
for the abolition of these
restrictions in N.Z.,” he said.
It does seem that the Gov-
ernment, which has not hesi-
tated to appeal to patriotism to
fill its loans in the past, should
be prepared to tell investors
how much money it wants and
what it wants it for.
The long-term rate for ths
new loan remains at 4| per
cent., but the short-term rate
is reduced from last year’s
4i per cent, to 4f per cent.
This is the first reduction in
the Government’s borrowing
rate for many years.
The new rates are approxi-
mately in line with the market.
Average final maturity yields
from existing stock at present
are: Short, £4 Bs. sd. per cent.;
medium, £4 14s. lOd. per cent.;
long, £4 15s. sd. per cent.


The Fourth Year Behind the Kadar Curtain—
HNGARY WAITS
By STEPHEN KELEN
A few months ago one
of Kadar’s secret-police
men forced himself into
a Budapest high-school
class during a lesson-period.
“How many of you carried
weapons during the counter-
revolution?” he challenged the
youngsters, who must have
been between 14 and 15 at
the time.
There was silence for a few
seconds. Then the class, as one
man, stood up, facing their in-
quisitor.
Many of the students, so
the report says, couldn’t have
been involved in the fighting
at all.
A fine, heroic gesture. But
what of the consequences?
One might even ask: “Was this
rather melodramatic act on
the Government’s part neces-
sary?” After this open con-
fession what other course could
the political police take than
to arrest en masse the whole
class of 40 youngsters and
try them? The verdict could
be anything from a warning
to a death-sentence.
The next year or so will show
whether the secret-police’s un-
expected visit was just a hint
“never to fool around again,”
or whether it is the groundwork
for another reign of terror,
persecution, jailings and execu-
tions.
People outside Hungary are
liable to forget that one of the
main forces of freedom-fighters
were in the very age-group
reaching maturity now. Ob-
viously the youngsters and the
Government alike have not for-
gotten the old, unsettled
account. At the time, when
the Russians crushed the revo-
lution and Kadar “consoli-
dated” himseff, the “offenders”
were too young to be punished.
Now they are ripe for the
taking.
The main issue still is: to
eliminate or to be eliminated
Obviously, Kadar is in no posi-
tion to forgive and forget.
Groups of freedom-fighters, at
an “acceptable age,” are still
being arrested and sent for
trial. The nation’s leading
writers, who inspired the revo-
lution, and couldn’t escape or
refused to run, are being
murdered or kept in prisons
—“legally.” Since 1956 seven
of them have been executed or
driven to commit suicide by
their jailers ; there is no news
about another eight. Twenty-
five novelists, poets, dramatists
and university-professors are in
jail, four of them serving
life-sentences.
TTeading the fist of con-
demned intellectuals are
Tibor Dery, the novelist and
short-story writer ; Julius Hay,
the dramatist; Professor
Istvan Bibo ; and the journa-
list Sandor Haraszti.
There has been, actually, a
world-wide Dery Committee in
existence for some time now
with the avowed aim of freeing
the aged writer and the other
intellectuals. But no amount
of appeals or pleading will
soften the Kadar Government.
Dery is the greatest living
Hungarian author if he is
still alive. He is 64, and has
spent two of his nine-years
sentence in dire circumstances.
Recently they moved him from
the relative comfort of a
Budapest jail to notorious
Marianosztra, one of the worst
penal institutes in Hungary.
Dery’s imprisonment was a
most flagrant breach of
human rights and decency. He
was thrown as a sacrifice to the
occupying Russians. The
revolution was “incited” by in-
tellectuals ; clearly, the best of
them provided the most suitable
offering.
The aged author and his com-
panions were tried in the
night, behind closed doors ;
no documents, no witnesses
were openly produced to
prove their “guilt” by the pro-
secution. To Kadar and his
henchmen their guilt was clear ;
they preferred freedom to Com-
munism, and were not willing
to compromise. Surely, if they
had “repented their sins,” and
openly declared they had been
misled by capitalistic counter-
revolutionaries, paid by the
reactionary landholders, and
had run the whole gauntlet of
self-abasement and accusation
of the West they wouldn’t have
had to suffer the consequences
of their moment of truth. But,
ironically, these men were Com-
munists to the core, and in a
great measure responsible for
the events which led to the
heroic and tragic days of 1956.
Communism is the type of
beast which has no compunc-
tion about destroying its own
kind, whether they happen to
be old and tried intellectuals,
or just youngsters.
A gainst the background of
a possible disaster to
Hungary’s maturing generation,
the imprisoned freedom-
fighters and intellectuals, under
what conditions live the Hun-
garian people? What are their
thoughts, their measures of
compromise, their living-
standards? What happened to
the great city of Budapest, first
destroyed during the siege of
the World War 11, and again
hardly more than a decade
later? How do the peasants, the
most determined enemies of
Communist collectivisation,
react to the burdens put on
their shoulders by their
Moscow-dominated regime?
TPhe “Literary Journal,” pub-
fished in London by the
Hungarian Writers’ Associ-
ation Abroad, gives a com-
prehensive picture of Hungary
today.
The editors of the newspaper
interviewed 15 recent arrivals
from behind Kadar's Curtain —
their statements were compared,
corroborated, and presented
without editorial comment.
In times to come these
columns of the “Literary
Journal” may be a historical
document.
The films and photos, the
descriptions that we have seen
and read after the revolution
was smashed on the surface,
have shown Budapest as a city
of ruins.
The question was: Will the
twice-betrayed inhabitants of
the city have the willpower and
enthusiasm to rebuild and
repair the damage again?
In the last two years, so
the “Literary Journal’s” in-
formants say, the picture of
Budapest has greatly improved.
There was a lot of building,
and even more “renovations.”
The Kadar Government pressed
the population hard to repair
the visible signs of what is
referred to by some as the
“revolution,” by others the
“counter - revolution,” or,
simply “the events,” and, the
most flowery of them all,
“October’s Regrettable Events.”
The expressions are used
according to courage, political
convictions, or, simply, by a
desire to live as well as is
possible in the circumstances.
Whatever the reason, Buda-
pest rose from its ruins again,
showing the indestructible
power and the will of a perse-
cuted people to live.
The living-standards seem
to have improved. People are
better-dressed and better-fed.
Here it is interesting to quote
not the “Literary Journal,”
but Colin Lawson, correspond-
ent of the London “Daily
Express.”
“I saw Budapest,” writes
Mr. Lawson, “during the up-
rising. I saw it again 18
months ago. And this time I
am amazed at the difference.
“The regime is firmly in the
saddle. Everything is under
control. Shops are bursting
with goods. Many are expen-
sive by Western standards and
not of high quality ; but they
are there and can be bought by
the man who works hard.”
As Mr. Lawson walked the
streets of Budapest, saw the
lavishly supplied shop-windows
and received his information
from stooges, he drew the
correct conclusions, so far as
an outsider can, and is allowed
to.
But the 15 inside reporters
added a little more to Mr.
Lawson’s optimistic findings.
“It is true, but not quite
true,” the reporters say, “that
everything is obtainable. In
the first place better-quality
goods, especially those from the
right side of the Iron Curtain,
are so expensive that no
ordinary citizen earning just
his ‘legal wages’ could afford
to purchase them. Then, if
someone inquires in the shops,
trying to buy this or that dis-
played, the usual answer is that
the material, or shoe, is not
in stock for the time being
and it would not be advisable


to remove the one on show.
Another standard answer is
that ‘the demand was so
great that it was sold out.’ ”
On the other hand, bananas
and oranges are obtainable at
“fantastically high prices.”
Tram-fares are cheap, but it
is quite a struggle to manage
to get on a tram because they
are few and far between.
Rents are inexpensive for those
lucky enough to have a flat.
The price of chocolate in
relation to wages would simply
astound a Westerner.
tjut there cannot be the
slightest doubt about it that
people live better than at any
time in the last nine years. The
answer is certainly not in the
increased wages. Since the
revolution the workers received
a 10 per cent, to 15 per cent,
rise; the “intellectuals” also
earn a little more, but not
enough to afford their present
standard of living.
Only the privileged class to
which artists, opera-singers,
surgeons and Communist offi-
cials belong earn enough to
afford what they buy and eat
without depending on a “side-
income.”
This “side-income” comes
mainly from two sources. By
far the more important of the
two originates from the
200,000 Hungarians who
escaped through the Iron
Curtain. Little did the regime
know that these “deserters”
would actually help to
raise the living - standard
and ease the bitterness and ten-
sion of its unwilling subjects.
Family loyalties and the bonds
of friendship do not die easily
amongst Hungarians. As soon
as the refugees became money-
earners in their new country,
able to put a little aside, their
first thoughts were to help the
unfortunates who remained in
bondage. And nearly a quarter-
of-a-million can help a great
deal, even if the Kadar Govern-
ment did devise its systems to
leach their parcels of comforts
and establish absurd currency
exchange-rates.
The other source of that
extra income is plain, general
corruption. No one considers
it a crime to get the better of
the State. The regime, in a
rather halfhearted way, tries
to track-down the culprits,
makes examples of some, pro-
secuting the most flagrant cases
(with all the publicity it can
muster), but, generally speak-
ing, it closes its eyes. Wherever
an official has to choose be
tween the slim possibility of
being caught, or living in
abject poverty with his family,
he prefers to take the risk.
HThe terror of the secret-
x police, which must remain
an integral part of a dictator-
ship with its nets of informers
and concentration - camps,
makes itself felt, but in
a much milder manner,
than during Rakosi’s regime.
Today the citizen who has
no political opinion doesn’t
have to spend his nights dread-
ing to be dragged from his
home for non-existing reasons,
unless, perhaps, a comrade in
favor has designs on his flat,
daughter or position. But the
internment-camps and jails are
still “well populated.”
It is a definite disadvantage
to be a “class alien” (having
bourgeois ancestry, maintain-
ing a business, workshop or a
“It's been a lovely, restful holiday. But, just quietly, I don't think Harry
will be sorry to go back to Work.”
piece of land of one’s own),
but it is no longer a reason to
be deported. During Rakosi’s
rule thousands of unfortunates
were deported from Budapest,
or whatever other place in
which they happened to prosper
“individually.” Today they
have the right to return to their
former abodes; yet most of
them remain in the camps, be-
cause there is no place for
them where they had lived
before. These outcasts are
bitter against not only the
Government but their more
fortunate friends and relatives,
who took over their flats and
belongings for safekeeping and
now are loath to give them up
to their rightful owners.
''There is hardly any talk
x about politics. It seems that
the people have given up the
ghost of freedom, and are will-
ing to compromise. There is no
resistance, not even “the strike
of silence,” the only weapon
patriots were able to resort to
after Kadar had finally con-
solidated his position. But
many of the former Com-
munists refused to rejoin the
party, or undertake assign-
ments “colored with politics.”
This reluctance to collaborate
is perhaps the only remnant, at
least on the surface, of the
splendid acts of defiance and
open hostility that remain.
“Tt seems that none of you
x thinks very much of the
revolution any longer,” one of
the reporters chanced to remark
amongst trusted friends.
“Of course we do ; it will
never leave our minds; the
memory of 1956 is sacred to
us all, and there is no power
that could shake our faith in
it,” his friends protested.
Rut then the conversation
quickly drifted to the possi-
bilities of buying a car.
The number of cars has sur-
prisingly increased in Hungary,
and many prefer to go hungry
as long as they can buy and
maintain a “motor-vehicle.”
The regime tries to attain a
measure of normalcy so far as
trade, culture and even tourism
are concerned ; but the political
terror continues relentlessly.
Kadar obviously feels that the
slightest relaxation would be
interpreted as a sign of weak-
ness, and trouble would erupt
again.
For that reason they feel it
would be impossible to show
clemency to Dery, Hay, Bibo
and the others, or relax the
relentless hunt and persecution
of former freedom-fighters.
VX/hile there is a compara-
tive calm in Budapest, the
country is torn by dissatis-
faction. The peasants who
still managed to retain their
properties live in constant
terror and anger, in fear of
collectivisation. On the Great
Hungarian Plains in the trans-
Danubian districts, the regime
conducts its campaigns for col-
lectivisation with varied inten-
sity. In spring and autumn the
offensive slackens; perhaps
even a little hope is injected, so
that planting and harvesting
will be carried out with the
thorough enthusiasm that
typifies the Hungarian peasant
landholders.
The peasants are grim and
silent, but their wives com-
plain loudly, and volubly:
“We’d rather die than lose our
land. We don’t want to be-
come the Russki’s servants.”
“Whilst I still own my piece
of land,” the peasant land-
holders think, “I am an inde-
pendent Hungarian. If I give
up, and go to work in the
‘kolkhoz’ [collective farm] I’ll
be nothing but the Russki’s
chattel.”
The regime tries to persuade
(Continued on page 44)


THE INTRUDERS
By
RAYMOND BARRY
Outside it was raining.
Some of the rain came
through the lattice wall
of the beer-garden, but
it was not cold. Only a young
man and a girl sat at the table,
talking quietly.
There were no others there,
only a tall young man wearing
glasses and a very fat girl in
matador-pants playing a game
like snooker at the far end.
There was a silent juke-box
alongside the table where the
young man and the girl sat.
“It’s late,” the girl said.
“It’s never too late,” the
young man said.
“The rain’s stopping.”
“Don’t change the subject.”
“What was the subject?”
“Higher mathematics,” the
young man said.
“Have you solved the
equation yet?” the girl asked.
“You’re the solution, but I
don’t seem to have been able
to make you realise it.”
“Sounds interesting.”
“It seems to me incredible,”
the young man said, “that I
should be holidaying twelve-
hundred miles from home
without enjoying myself.
Without one exciting thing
happening.”
“You think too much.”
“I don’t think so.”
“Are you going on the cruise
tomorrow ? ”
“In this weather!”
“It’s so changeable. It will
probably be beautiful in the
morning.”
“Beautiful! You sound like
one of those lying travel-
brochures. Five days in the
tropics and I haven’t got a hint
of a suntan.”
“1 think it’s marvellous.”
“It stinks!”
“Fooey! ”
The girl in the matador-pants
had dropped her cue and was
bending to pick it up.
The young man pulled a
face and held his hand to his
eyes.
The girl kicked him under
the table.
“That’s the first sign of affec-
tion you’ve shown for me,” the
young man said.
“Oh, you’re unbearable,” the
girl said.
“Is that why you drink so
heavily? So that you can put
up with me?”
“I hardly drink at all.”
“Ted said he saw you filthy
drunk the other night.”
“Oh, I was a bit tiddly then.
That’s the night I searched
for you all over the island with
a torch. I went right out onto
the wharf to shine the torch in
the face of an old man sitting
fishing.”
“Ted said you were
hilarious.”
“Where is Ted? I’ll bet he’s
enjoying himself.”
“He could enjoy himself
alone on a desert island.”
Tust then a young man, a few
** years older than the young
man with the girl, walked to-
wards them. He had come
from the bar inside.
“Hello, Phillip,” he said.
“Who’s the gorgeous horse?”
“Jennifer, meet Max,” the
young man named Phillip said.
“An uncouth but competent
barman.”
The man named Max
laughed loudly. He had a fine
set of teeth and showed them
against his tanned skin when he
smiled.
“I’ll bet you’re from Bris-
bane,” Max said to the girl.
“How did you know?”
“It's that sophisticated look,”
said Max, laughing. “Just
watch these Sydney fellows,
though,” he said. “They’re
dynamite.”
He left them then, calling
back “I’ll be back in a minute.
Have a drink with you.”
The noise of the rubber
thongs he wore on his feet
clapped loudly on the concrete
as he walked away. He had on
white shorts and a bright
cotton-print sports-shirt with
the names of a number of
Barrier Reef islands written on
it.
“He’s a good-looking brute,
that,” the young man said.
“Do you think so?” the girl
said. “I’d like another drink.”
“I’ll get you one.”
“I’m not going to sit here
alone. I'll come in with you.”
The two of them walked past
the juke-box and up two steps
onto the level where the girl
in the matador-pants and her
companion stood leaning on
their cues and occasionally
sipping beer.
The young man named
Phillip wore a sports-shirt
hanging out over long,
polished-cotton trousers rolled-
up at the bottom. The girl
wore v/hite shorts and a pale-
blue blouse. She was very
pretty.
TThey went in to the bar and
sat down at the far end.
Up from them five men were
sitting, drinking. They were
the only others in the bar
except for an old man, Laurie,
who was serving.
“This is the first time I’ve
been in the har since I’ve been
here,” the girl said to Phillip.
“Does it stir your sense of
propriety?” Phillip asked her.
“Don't be stupid.”
“What’ll you have?” the
old man, Laurie, asked.
“Gin-and-coke and a beer,
thanks, Laurie.”
“Right you are.” The man
named Laurie was unshaven
and moved very slowly.
“Casanova! They're look-
ing for you, y’ know,” one of
the men in the group of five
called to Phillip.
“I know,” said Phillip. “The
blowflies.”
Phillip was lean but good-
looking.
“Ay, Casanova’s got all the
answers,” the man said to his
friends. “He’s a real bright
boy.”
The men laughed together.
One of them, a short, solid man
with big hands, looked solemnly
at Phillip and smiled.
“Do I get a prize or some-
thing?” Phillip asked without
looking up.
By the time he had looked
up the short, solid man had
stumbled across from his bar-
stool and was standing along-
side him. He had his fists
clenched.
“You want a prize?” he said.
He was biting out the words.
“You want a prize?”
He was short, but thick-set,
and showed a lot of hair on
his chest through his part-
opened shirt.
The girl, Jennifer, said,
“Phillip, I think it’s time we
left.”
Phillip ignored her.
The old man, Laurie, was
mumbling something behind the
bar. No one paid him any
attention.
“Don’t take him away from
us, the man said to Jennifer.
“He’s handsome and we like
his smart answers.” He was
pounding his right fist into his
open left hand.
It had become very quiet,
and outside you could hear the
rain starting up again.
“You want a prize, eh ? What
sort of prize would you like,
smart boy?”
The girl in the matador-
pants was lean'ng on her cue
ip the doorway. Her friend
had left. She had a tight grip
on her cue.
The young man named
Phillip looked up at the man
standing over him. Jennifer
held his left arm tightly.
Tt was like a tense game of
* chess.
One of the men in the group
tried to get the small man to
sit down. “He’s only a boy,
Jack,” he was saying. The
man had a red beard and
looked sympathetically at
Phillip.
“He’s had a few too many
tonight,” he said to Phillip.
“Don’t apologise for me!”
the other man said. He pushed
{Continued on page 44)


PETROLEUM LIMITED
Highlights of Chairman’s Address
In his address to the annual meeting of Stockowners held in Sydney (and simultaneously
relayed to subsidiary meetings in all capital cities within the Commonwealth) on Friday,
January 15, 1960, the Chairman, Mr. L. J. Thompson, reported:
• SALES:
Sales and other revenue amounted to £32,547,000, an increase of 101%.
• PROFITS:
Net profit after tax provision was £1,866,000, an increase of 6%. After allowing for
dividend on preference capital earning rate of profit on ordinary paid-up stock was 19.4%.
• RESERVES:
Reserves and undivided profits now total nearly £5,500,000, an increase for the year
of over £1,200,000, of which £750,000 was derived from premium on the recent share
placement.
• DIVIDEND:
Maintained at 13|%.
• STOCKOWNERS’
FUNDS:
Now total £17,144,078—up 26%.
• ASSETS:
Assets of the Company and its subsidiaries are now in excess of £33,500,000, an
increase of 35%.
• NEW SHARE &
NOTE ISSUES:
As previously announced. Registers close today for a New Issue at par of over
£4,000,000 of 6% Registered Unsecured Convertible Notes of 5/- each in the ratio of
one Note for each three Stock Units or Convertible Notes currently held. One
million shares, underwritten for placement at 20/6, were issued during September, 1959.
These funds were needed urgently for expansion. The Board gives an assurance that
there is no intention to depart from its usual practice of raising capital by means of
rights issues.
• NEW TANKERS:
During the year the Company took delivery of a new tanker and a super tanker is at
present under construction in Australia for delivery within the next two years.
• PARTNERSHIP
WITH
INTERNATIONAL
B. F. GOODRICH:
The Board’s policy of increasing the diversification of our business has resulted in
our becoming associated with the world renowned International B. F. Goodrich for
the purpose of manufacturing tyres and allied products in Australia. It is anticipated
that marketing of tyres will commence on Ist March.
• OIL SEARCH:
Exploration work has continued steadily during the year with the emphasis on
geophysical operations.
• PEOPLE:
The Board is fully conscious that the secret of the Company’s success is its people,
and they are the Company’s greatest asset. The Board expresses thanks to the
Managing Director, General Manager, Executive and all members of the staff.
• AMPOL
INVESTMENT
TRUST:
The Board heartily supports the Managing Director’s proposal for the formation of a
Staff Investment Trust to be managed free of cost to the staff.
• THE FUTURE:
Ampol faces a new year with unbounded confidence in the future of Australia and our
Company’s ability to maintain a high rate of progress,
AMPOL IS OWNED
BY MORE THAN
40,000 PROUD
AUSTRALIANS
AUSTRALIAN
OMPDL
o WNED
ra


European Trade, U.S. and Us
Six and Seven May Make Twenty
To most people not directly con-
cerned with the trade and tariff
policies of Europe the disputes
and differences between the two
big trading-fe/oci’ of Europe —the six
members of the Common Market and
the seven members of the Free Trade
Area —seem to be admirably summed-up
in the old saying that links their num-
bers: they're all at sixes and sevens.
This feeling is especially common in
the United States, which has always had
a tendency to be impatient with
European back-fence quarrels and to feel
that their solution could be a much
simpler matter than history has shown
it to be. Distance from Europe and a
somewhat intolerant attitude towards the
national pride of countries which are
in many cases smaller than some Ameri-
can States help to explain this impatience,
though it should by now be tempered
by experience with the small but fiercely
nationalistic Latin American republics.
But despite these feelings, it was
American aid that made possible
Europe’s rehabilitation after the war
and successive U.S. Administrations have
recognised that it is impossible for their
country to stand aside from affairs in
Europe. On the defence side Nato is
an acknowledgment of this fundamental
fact. Politically and economically the
trail began with Marshall Aid and has
as its latest manifestation the proposal
of Douglas Dillon, U.S. Under Secretary
of State for Economic Affairs, that the
United and Canada should co-
operate with the 18 countries of the
Organisation Tor European Economic
Co-operation. The 0.E.E.C., of which
much was once expected, is now merely
a consultative body, most of its mem-
bers having joined the “Six” or the
“Seven.”
r T'HE six countries of the Common
Market bloc are France, Germany,
Italy, Holland, Belgium and Luxem-
bourg, and their organisation, the
European Economic Community
(E.E.C.), grew out of the European Coal
and Steel Community formed by them
about eight years ago. It came into
operation at the beginning of 1959. The
agreement signed by these countries pro-
vided for what would ultimately amount
to integration of their economies, with
not only the abolition of tariffs among
themselves, but a common tariff against
the outside world.
Other countries were invited to join
the E.E.C., but none has done so. The
main reason for this abstention is that
the ultimate aims of the “Six” go beyond
a mere Customs-union ; they seek com-
mon economic, financial and social
policies, with political federation as the
logical final objective. The United
Kingdom, with its political and com-
mercial ties with the Dominions, was
naturally not prepared to go the whole
hog in co-operation, and most of the
other O.E.E.C. countries also had reasons
for declining.
As an alternative Britain suggested a
Free Trade Area to include all O.E.E.C.
members. This would have meant the
abolition of tariffs between members,
but each would decide its own tariff -
policy towards outside countries. The
Common Market countries preferred
their own plan, but Norway, Sweden,
Denmark, Portugal, Austria and Switzer-
land agreed to join with Britain in a
European Free Trade Association.
IN explaining the purpose of the
E.F.T.A. at a meeting of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund in October last,
Sir Roger Makins, leader of the British
delegation, said:
In the United Kingdom view, this opera-
tion has two objectives. The first is to
reduce barriers to trade among the parti-
cipating countries in a manner consistent
with the development of world-wide multi-
lateral trade and the provisions of GATT.
The second is to make possible a new
approach to European economic co-
operation, leading in due course to the
elimination of trade-barriers among all
the member-countries of the O.E.E.C.
E.F.T.A. is concerned principally with
industrial goods ; primary products are
excluded from its provisions except by
special agreement between member-
countries. In insisting on this the U.K.
was responding to pressure from its own
farmers and also recognising commit-
ments to Australia, New Zealand and
other parts of the Commonwealth.
Industrialists and trade-union leaders
in most of the member-countries have
given their approval of E.F.T.A. and the
intention has been that, assuming ratifica-
tion of the convention by all Govern-
ments, the first step —a tariff-reduction
of 20 per cent. —will be taken on July
1, 1960. The ultimate hope as expressed
in a British Treasury bulletin is “a single
market in Europe in which all O.E.E.C.
countries can trade with a maximum of
freedom. The hope of all in the ‘Seven’
is that the quick establishment of their
group will bring about the conditions
in which the two bodies, the ‘Seven’ and
the ‘Six,’ can come together.”
It seems that the possibility of the
two European trad e-blocs coming to-
gether is the factor that has now
inspired the Dillon proposals. The
reversal of the U.S. policy of aloofness
from trade-pacts with Europe is remark-
able, but quite understandable. In the
past year or so the U.S. has been faced
with adverse balance-of-payments prob-
lems. These have stemmed partly from
its vast programmes of “foreign - aid”
and, to an increasing degree, from com-
petition from the resurgent industrial
power of Europe, made possible to a
large extent by earlier American aid.
surprisingly, the U.S. feels that
the now prosperous nations of
Europe should be prepared to take-over
some of the burden of financing aid to
underdeveloped countries.
The Atlantic economic conference at
which Dillon made his proposals was
arranged as a result of the raising of
this question at the meeting of Western-
summit leaders in Paris last month. The
suggestion then was that it should con-
sider ways of “furthering the develop-
ment of the less developed countries”
and of “trade policies directed to . . .
the maintenance of harmonious inter-
national relations.” U.S. thinking has
always been more kindly disposed to-
wards the “Six” of the Common Market
than to the “Seven” of the Free Trade
Area. This is because the ultimate
possibility of integration fits in with
traditional U.S. feeling on what is right
and proper for Europe. On the other
hand traditional American suspicion of
British business astuteness has weighed
against the U.K.-dominated “Seven.”
But although the gulf between the
“Six” and the “Seven” has been wide,
there has been a growing feeling in
Europe that it can be bridged. If this
were to happen the five other members
of the O.E.E.C. could hardly remain
aloof and the U.S. would be faced with
a European trading bloc of 18 nations.
TN the light of this possibility the U.S.
has apparently decided to follow the
dictum of American business —“if you
can’t beat ’em, join 'em.” So far the
joining is little more than exploratory,
but a start has been made. At the
moment the O.E.E.C. apparently con-
sists of 20 members —the U.S., Canada,
the original 17 countries and Spain,
which was admitted last year. For the
present it will be a consultative body—
and there’s plenty of consulting planned.
The 20 members will meet in Paris next
month to discuss questions of trade in
delation to the “Six” and the “Seven.”
They’ll meet again in April to hear the
report of the four experts appointed to
examine the future of O.E.E.C. with the
inclusion of the U.S. and Canada as
full members. There’ll also be a meet-
ing of a nine-nation group of creditor-
nations to discuss aid to underdeveloped
countries.
Trade Minister McEwen has expressed
anxiety at the possible effect on Australia
of these developments in Europe. As
a major exporter of wool, wheat, meat,
butter and other primary products this
country has a vital interest in British
and European markets —every bit as
vital as Canada’s —if not more so. The
sister-Dominion was presumably in-
cluded in the Paris talks at the instance
of the U.S. If Australia wants to be
heard at later conferences someone had
better speak-up loudly and soon.


Start the day right ?
•ass*
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Autumn Forerunner
There was a taste of good
racing to come when the Mel-
bourne Racing Club staged the
seven-furlongs C. F. Orr Stakes
at Caulfield last Saturday
first w.-f.-a. race in Melbourne
since last spring, and with Lord
showing he has lost none of
his dash by beating a good field
with a lot in hand. He has
won no fewer than 12 of his
last 13 starts at Caulfield, and,
all told, has scored 15 of his
18 wins at the “Heath.” Vic-
torians take a poor view of the
A.J.C. committee’s not having
included Lord in the original
invitations for the £lO,OOO In-
vitation Stakes (March 9).
Prince Lea and On Guard were
both well-backed to beat Lord, and
at the home-turn the three were
in line, but Geoff Lane had merely
to let Lord make his own pace
and the big-striding gelding came
right away. He won the Orr
Stakes last year—first horse to win
it twice since it was instituted in
.1949.
• • • 0
Last century—and even later
—trainers believed in racing
their horses harder than we do
nowadays, and it was common-
place for a horse to start twice
in the one day. On Guard’s
trainer, B. W. Allpike, favors
the old-time methods, and has
raced him eight times in five
weeks, including two starts at
Caulfield last Saturday. After
finding the company of Lord
and Prince Lea in the Orr
Stakes a bit rich, On Guard
came out again a couple of
hours later, and with the huge
burden of 10.2 ran a rather
unlucky second behind Gallant
Wit in the Keysborough
Welter. A four-year-old geld-
ing by Comic Court from the
Portofino mare Zeresh, Gallant
Wit had won a couple of races
in the country, but had not
scored on a city track before,
nor had his trainer, Alan
Elkington, saddled-up a pre-
vious metropolitan winner.
Gallant Wit, who with 7.9 had
351 b. the best of the weights
from On Guard, is raced by
Nhill Racing Club president
C. Handley and his wife.
• • »;
Mrs. G. Godfrey and her
daughter, Mrs. R. A. Walker,
own the very speedy filly Im-
pulsive, who, reappearing in the
Kingston Stakes, after a long
spell, ran the five furlongs in
59|, to win easily from Grasse,
who had won at her previous
three starts. Last time in Im-
pulsive broke the Caulfield
record when she ran the 4\ fur-
longs of the Mona Nursery in
53 1-10. Saturday’s run looked
exceptionally good, and the
filly’s owners will undoubtedly
race her against Sydney’s
Wenona Girl in the autumn.
Impulsive gets her speed from
“ And, after all, Bomber, none of us can expect
to live for ever."
her dam, Spitfire, who won
the Oakleigh Plate in 1950.
Melbourne’s two-year-olds
this season have been as con-
sistent as the rising of the sun,
and on Saturday Egoline be-
came one of the several who
have scored a hat-trick —he had
a last-stride win over Havelock
in the s|-furlongs Sturt Handi-
cap. Egoline (raced by P.
Grant Hay and his wife, who
belong to one of Melbourne’s
oldest racing-families) is a geld-
ing by Nullabor from Revaura,
and he will be even better over
a bit of ground. A slow starter
who finishes very powerfully,
he has notched two of his wins
by a short-half-head, and he
has tons of courage.
r*i • ' • •
It must be very unusual for
a nine-year-old to win five
races in succession, but that is
now the record of the oddly-
named Urapoet, who had a
very easy win in the Forrest
Jumpers’ Flat. The ancient
gelding, who gets his name
from his breeding (by Laureate
from Urochloa), had not previ-
ously won a city race, but he’s
been very consistent in the
Western District. He was
brought down by owner L. K.
Noel (who lives at Terang),
Western District jockey Herb
Senior and trainer P. J. Kelly ;
and a very profitable trip, too,
with Urapoet backed for a lot
of money at double-figure
odds.
Ballarat trainer Arthur
Smerdon has done a wonder-
ful job with the aged Solar
Bear gelding Lar Pota. When
Lar Pota broke-down after
running second in the Moonee
Valley Cup in 1958 it seemed
unlikely he would race again,
but under Smerdon’s care he
has returned better than ever.
In his first-up effort at Caul-
field a couple of weeks ago
he scored a brilliant win in
the Rowena Welter, but he
was even more impressive on
Saturday in the 12-furlongs
Malua Handicap. While Smer-
don can keep him on his feet
he will be a danger in any
distance-event.
Last winter, in the longer
two-year-old races, the New
Zealand-bred colt Gold Rebel
(Resurgent - Fairene) showed
promise as a stayer, and he
won a race at Caulfield in the
style of a good horse. He
found the mile of Saturday’s
Griffith Handicap much more
to his liking than the shorter
events in which he’s been start-
ing, and his trainer, Bill Allan,
thinks he will develop into a
fine stayer.
* • * .#
Sydney Horses
The AJ.C.’s .Challenge
Stakes and Anniversary Handi-
cap meeting, being held a little
later than usual this year, will
be on next weekend. Pick
of the field for the six-furlongs
£2OOO Challenge are Front
Cover, Endure, Olympiad, Gay
Port, Merry Polly and Happy
Kingdom, with Front Cover as
present onlooker’s first choice.
• • • •
In the £2500 Anniversary
Handicap (1£ mile) two recent
discoveries in the staying line,
Gene San and Sir Delville,
right at top form, figure among
the lightweights, and they
could take a prominent part in
the finish, with Rin Tin, North
Row and Ulandra also chances.
Gene San’s Rosehill success last
Saturday—his first in open
company—was most impressive.
• • • •
In his Rosehill January
Handicap success Gene San—
ridden at 7.3 by apprentice
C. Pearson —was in the middle
of the field till the final stages,
when he came with a brilliant
dash to win well from the
better-performed Boorala and
Rin Tin. The latter will benefit
from the hard run. Gene
San, who had outclassed


Novice and Encourage fields
at his prior starts, has 7.7 in
the Anniversary Handicap on
Monday. Love And Kisses,
second at three prior starts,
was never dangerous in the
January Handicap. Royal
Perception found the 10
furlongs too far.
A breeder who declines 2700-
gns. for a yearling must hold a
high opinion of the youngster’s
potential, and no doubt Syd-
ney paddock bookmaker Jack
Mandel, who has bred many
winners, now feels pleased he
didn’t accept that figure for
Persian Lyric at the Randwick
auction last autumn. In fact,
after Persian Lyric’s easy win
in the Two-year-old Handicap
at Rosehill, Mandel, who is
racing the handsome-looking
colt in partnership with Mrs.
Mandel and Mrs. H. Abbott,
believes he has held onto
a probable classic winner for
later in the year. The colt
is a brother to Prince Darius,
whose wins included the A.J.C.
Craven Plate (twice), the Colin
Stephen Stakes, Caulfield’s St.
George Stakes, and the Chelms-
ford Stakes (twice). Prince
Darius also ran second in the
Melbourne Cup. Breeding is by
Persian Book (imp.) from
Lyrical Lass by St. Andrew
from Gozoni by Lo Zingaro
(imp.), and family-lines include
distance-performers Hall Mark,
Nuffield and Trivalve.
• • • •
Though in his three prior
starts Erskine had won Gradu-
ation events at Canterbury,
when little-known apprentice
Bob O’Brien was semaphored
as his rider at Rosehill his price
drifted from 5 to 2 (second-
favorite) to 5 to 1. Nonetheless
he duly landed the money all
right, and in doing so gave his
young rider a win over N- Sell-
wood, on Chipperfield, and Sel-
krig, on Merry Amber. In
front all the way, young
O'Brien kept his head and rode
calmly still when Sellwood,
riding his hardest, got close to
him at the finish.
In Rosehill’s Third Parra-
matta Stakes the 4-to-l-on
winner, Sonar King, might
have been in bother had the
runner-up, Sands, begun more
smartly. One of the tail-
enders in the early part, Sands
finished less than a length from
the hot favorite, with Triple
Edition third. Sonar . King’s
display didn’t look good
enough for, say, the sort of
company he would meet in
the Oakleigh Plate —or any
other top sprint, for that
matter.
Owner Mrs. M. Pollard had
hopes of Achnacary, trained by
Jack Denham, winning the
Rosehill Welter, but the six-
year-old gelding, though he ran
a good race, was beaten into
third place in a blanket-finish.
However, they did better at
the Newcastle meeting, where
Denham won the third division
of the First Improvers’ Handi-
cap with Mrs. Pollard’s four-
year-old Grey Wonder. Winner
of the Rosehill event was
Belarcothe favored pair,
Springbok and Saydor, .ran
poorly.
• • • •
An interestingly bred two-
year-old won the Newcastle
Juvenile sprint. She is Golden
Sleigh, bred at Woodlands
Stud, Denman (N.S.W.), but
not offered as a yearling at
the Randwick auction last
April (she was in the cata-
logue, but didn’t appear). The
filly is by King’s Own (imp.),
a son of Chamossaire, and is
from the imported mare Heirog
by Bobsleigh from Academia
by Plantago.
* * *
New Zealand gallopers,
racing on the fast Trentham
track, are recording brilliant
times, and another record went
by the board when Oreka, a
four - year - old gelding by
Targui (imp.) from Beet by
Ruthless (imp.) ran an Aus-
tralasian record for 11
furlongs—2.l4}—in the Rua-
pehu Handicap last Saturday.
Fastest Australian time is
Baystone’s 2.15 1/10 at Eagle
Farm (Brisbane) in May, 1958.
Froth, winner of the Auckland
Cup about 13 months ago,
came right back to form in
winning the Wellington R.C.
Handicap in 2.271 for IF mile,
equalling the Dominion record.
She is a five-year-old mare by
Faux Tirage (imp.) from Home
Brew by Robin Goodfellow
(imp.) and had an easy task in
the £3750 staying-race. Tulloch
is the Australasian record-
holder for a mile-and-a-half,
with his 2.26 9/10 run at Caul-
field in October, 1957.
Melbourne trainer J. P. Mul-
cahy made several purchases
for clients at the 34th annual
New Zealand sale of thorough-
bred yearlings. His 5000gns.
for the grey colt by Marco
Polo II (imp.) from Cuban Fox
by Foxbridge (imp.) from
Chubin by Nizami (Fr.)
equalled the N.Z. record. The
youngster is closely related to
the grey Tawhiao, winner at
Randwick at latest outing and
of nine races in New Zea-
land. Randwick trainer T. J.
Smith made 12 purchases for
a total of 22,500gn5. He went
to 3000gns. for the Marco Polo
II (imp.) colt from Miss
Carolina by Foxbridge (imp.).
King’s Fair, whose wins in-
cluded the V.R.C. Newmarket,
belongs to the family. R.
Roden, trainer of Melbourne
Cup winner Macdougal, bought
14 yearlings for 12,750gn5.
Rosehill trainer Morrie Ander-
son secured for 3200gns. the
Marco Polo II (imp.) colt from
Misprint by Paper Boy (imp.).
A good winner herself, Mis-
print is a half-sister to Milford,
who won staying-races on
Melbourne tracks, among them
the two-miles Malakoff Stakes.
“Avenue”: The Centenary
Melbourne Cup could attract
the best from all States, N.Z.,
and one or two from abroad—
and no Australian horserace to
date has had representation
from all six States in the
field. The big Cup is now
regarded in both hemi-
spheres as probably the toughest
two-mile handicap in the
world ; ranking alongside the
English Derby, reckoned the
world’s hardest classic race to
win. Given ideal weather and
international representation
(both in horses and riders) the
1960 event could provide a
talking-point for punters for
50 years.
* * *
The Trots
In spite of a miserable wet
night, Harold Park’s Friday
roll-up totalled over 19,000-
main attraction the two Free-
for-Alls of star-studded pacers
—all Inter-Dominion runners
except Enzedder Suzendy.
Bathurst pacer First Kiss took
the lead early and set a
sizzling pace in the first divi-
sion, going on to win by three-
and-a-half lengths from Sydney
horse Southern Van. .The race
was run in drizzling rain on a
soggy track, so First Kiss’s
time of 3.5} —mile rate, 2.6}
—compared favorably with
Fettle’s race record of 2.5}.
The track was even worse for
the second division, in which
Inter-Dominion favorite Cadu-
ceus (whose time, conse-
quently, was a shade slower)
scored convincingly from
Brilliant Moon (100-1) and
Apmat. Only four days off
the boat, Caduceus went very
fast, from the barrier and was
never headed, winning com-
fortably by two lengths. From
fifth at the bell Brilliant Moon
finished strongly to gain second
money. Apmat, slow to start
and last early, made a sweep-
ing run from the tail of the
field to get within a head of
Brilliant Moon. This was
perhaps the most convincing
trial for the Inter-Dominion
outside that of Caduceus.
* * *
Cricket Round-up
Australia made it one-up in
the Tests against India by an
innings and 55 runs in the
fourth: Australia, 342 ; India,
149 and 138.
Benaud won the toss for
the first time in the series, and
Australia’s respectable total
was mainly Favell (101) and
Mackay (89). Favell, who
made only 1 in the third Test,
was originally omitted, but
was restored when Stevens had


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKfeON 4
o'suluvav-
: *<, prYLTD ,
& Sr*s ’«**£? $
r raoe^^mark
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
to drop .out through illness.
Mackay’s score followed a lean
Test run ; he made 78 in the
first Test, but had got a “pair”
in the second Test and equalled
Favell’s in the third.
Australia then twice routed
India. In the first innings
’keeper Kunderam, the third
’keeper India has tried, made
71, almost half the score. He
followed it with a second-
innings 33. The consistent
Contractor, off-color when he
batted in the first innings, top-
scored in the second with 41.
Benaud (5-43) and Davidson
(3-36) took bowling honors in
India’s first innings; all the
bowlers (except Mackay, 0-1
off 4 overs) shared the second-
innings wickets. Grout ’kept
well throughout.
The Australian “second XI”
team for N.Z. should be well
able to take care of any opposi-
tion it meets on the tour. (At
the same time it wouldn’t hurt
for a “first XI” side to be sent
over the Tasman ae soon as
practicable.)
Most of the team picked
themselves. It is strong in
batsmen some attractive
strokemakers among them—-
and the bowling, particularly
on the fast side, represents
about the best that could be
chosen. Perhaps Westralian
Des Hoare, rated by some
Shield players as the most
hostile bowler in Australia at
present and more dangerous
than Gaunt, was unlucky to
miss. N.S.W. all-rounder
Flockton was another unlucky
one—there are “unlucky ones”
after every touring team is
chosen.
Perhaps the one choice to
quibble at is that of wicket-
keeper Maddocks at 33 the
oldest man in the side. Mad-
docks has raised a certain
amount of doubt over his
cricketing future by twice with-
drawing from Australian teams
after being selected, and the
position of ’keeper should have
gone to a younger man, such as
S.A.’s Ducker, who is also a
hard-hitting batsman, or Ford,
of N.S.W.
All States are represented in
the side, except Tasmania, and
the Speck provides the manager.
••• # \
Queensland won its first Shield
points this season by defeating S.A.
by an innings and 88: S.A., 253 and
J 35; Q., 476. Notable features:
a . century (neat) and five good
wickets by Northern skipper
Bratchford; young Queensland
left-hand batsman Veivers’s 115;
Hill’s 83 and ’keeper Ducker’s 59
in S.A.’s first innings; new Queens-
land leg-spinner Westaway’s four
wickets in each S.A. innings, with
good support from Bratchford,
N.Z. tourist Fisher and another
newcomer, John Mackay from
Rockhampton; S.A. fast-bowler
Trethewey’s 5-78, good figures in
a total of 476.
Bratchford’s three wickets in
his first three overs in S.A.’s second
innings started Queensland on the
way to its outright; in both innings
Bratchford dismissed cheaply opener
Neil Dansie, who since 1952 has
“And now, what am I offered for this beautiful
art-printed sign?”
hit six centuries against Queens-
land, four of them on the ’Gabba
ground (and he was away in Lan-
cashire League for a couple of
years in that period). Veivers and
Bratchford’s 211 was a Queensland
sixth-wicket record, beating 188
made by Bill Brown and Don
Tallon, also against S.A., in
1950-51.
“K.R.”: Left-hand bat Bruce
.Cook, who had been a regular
Manly (Sydney) first-grader for
over 20 years, was struck in
the eye recently by the ball
when playing in second-grade,
and has lost the sight of the
eye. Cook, an aggressive bat
and a good fellow, whimsically
remarks that reduced vision
now prevents him taking any
part in the game except as an
umpire.
• • • •
“Zorok”: India, finding its
Contractor doing a tradesman-
like job in each of the first four
Tests, decided to call in an
Engineer as well in the 14
players named for the fifth.
* * *
Other Sports
“Plunge”: Water - polo
players throughout Australia
are now hard at it raising the
needful to send a national team
around the world again this
year. Rome for the Olympics
is only one spot they’ll take-in
on their journey. They pay for
it themselves since inter-
national amateur sport was re-
vived seriously after the war
the water-polo players have
raised, solely by their own
efforts, over £20,000, which has
meant trips for Australian
teams to New Zealand, Europe
and Indonesia. The next one
coming up will take-in many
countries. Recently their asso-
ciation received an invitation
to send a team to Indonesia to
play in an Asian competition,
which will mean playing
against rep.-teams of Malaya,
Singapore, Hong Kong and
Philippines, as well as Indo-
nesia. The Asian tournament
is set down for Djakarta, and
Australian Swimming Union
secretary W. Berge Phillips, a
vice-president of the Inter-
national Swimming Federation,
was invited to act as the
official representative of the
world body controlling swim-
ming and water-polo.
* * *
“Dough”: The amount of
money being poured into sport
by sponsors must run into a
huge sum each year. Tennis
has just received £BOOO for two
junior tournaments in Mel-
bourne and Sydney, and thous-
ands will be laid-out in the
winter for football codes.
Cycling is in the pool, too, with
a £lO,OOO six-day race in Mel-
bourne from March 13 to 19,
the prizemoney coming from
the Victorian milk-industry.
* * *
“Tennisite”: When 19-year-
old Jan Lehane, unorthodox
tennis-stroking girl from Gren-
fell (N.S.W.), goes abroad this
year she will, in the opinion of
her adviser and touring-
manager, Mary Hawton, greatly
improve her game, but will find
the going tough. Mrs. Hawton
knows well enough; this is her
fourth tour overseas. Jan will
be meeting dozens of players
who not only are her equal but
have had great experience of
play on the different surfaces
found in Europe. She will
stroke the ball on the “soft,
clingy” surface of the courts
in Rome and France, and then
switch to the heavier atmos-
phere and slower courts of
England. Still, she’ll win her
share of matches, and she’s in
good hands, with Mrs. Hawton
given full responsibility of
managership, as well as play-
ing with her in doubles.


Between
Ourselves
&
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WATCHING WIST GERMANY
A s reports of widespread
anti-Jewish and pro-Nazi
slogan-writing flowed in after
the defacing of the Cologne
synagogue in late December
the overseas press carried
much speculation and inquiry
about the possibility of a neo-
Nazi revival in West Ger-
many.
London “Time and Tide”
holds that in our anxiety about
such a revival “we must dis-
tinguish between the essential
and the superficial”:
“First, whether this is s
Communist plot to make Wes-
tern Germany and its Western
allies seem Fascist-minded, or
a German Fascist attempt to
provide bogus evidence of a
Communist plot against Ger-
many, or a Communist plot
do simulate a German Fascist
attempt to devise a bogus
Communist plot (one could go
on for ever with less and less
credible inventions) is of com-
parative unimportance.
“What is crucially important
is to recognise and watch the
existence and spread of
violence and fear in Germany,
and the possible consequences
to all countries. The original
thugs, whoever they were,
have done their work.”
Not Isolated Cases
Among writers who have
had the chance to watch recent
events in West Germany is
Kurt R. Grossman, who, in a
letter to the “New York
Times,” notes that the. slogan-
daubing “is not one of the
‘scattered anti-Semitic incidents
in West Germany’ of recent
years.
“Since 1957, beginning
with the Hamburg case in
which an obvious crackpot,
Friedrich Nieland, was able
by an astonishing court-action
to peddle his wares of hate and
ILLINGWORTH, IN LONDON “DAILY MAIL.”
prejudice, these events have
increased.
“Professor Werner Heyde, a
medical doctor wanted for
euthanasia-killings during the
Hitler period by the authori-
ties, lived unmolested for eight
years as Dr. Sawade in Kiel,
where he was appointed by the
courts as a medical expert.
When a distinguished professor
in 1954 informed the president
of the court of his true identity
the court president replied that
he saw no obligation to follow-
up the professor’s allegation.
“Still more embarrassing
seems to me the case of Refu-
gee Minister Theodore Ober-
laender, who (according to the
magazine ‘Der Spiegel’ of De-
cember 2, 1959) wrote articles
upholding Nazi racial theories
and is now accused of being
responsible for the murder of
hundreds of Jews in Lemberg
in 1941, when he served as an
officer x>f the military unit
called ‘Nightingale.’
“Oberlaender denies the
accusation, which he describes
as Communist - inspired or
-instigated. But in Tel Aviv
a witness has declared himself
ready to testify to the truth of
these serious allegations. The
conservative Catholic weekly
‘Rheinischer Merkur’ has de-
manded a Parliamentary inves-
tigation—but to no avail.
“It should cause great appre-
hension that the desecrators of
the Cologne synagogue are
young men of 25. The dis-
missed anti-Semitic officials of
the indemnification office in
Weisbaden were in their early
thirties. An anti-Semite whom
I encountered at one of my
lectures in Munich last June
was about 23 years of age.
We learn of the existence of
Right radical youth-organisa-
tions of 70,000. The Minister
of Education of Lower Saxony
only recently warned against
their activities.
“Reason to be Worried”
“The theory therefore that
Germany’s young generation
is free of prejudice and dis-
crimination must be revised.
If we add to this factor the
political apathy and lack of
knowledge about the past
among German youngsters we
have indeed reason to be
worried.”
Some support for this view
comes from George Vine, West
German correspondent of Lon-
don “News Chronicle”:
“It is no excuse to say they
[the slogan-daubers] are only
crackpots with paint-pots.
Basically, what was Hitler if
not a crackpot?
“It is small comfort to say
that the ultra Right-wing
groups are too small. Hitler
started with six men.
“But at the same time this
outbreak must be kept in pro-
portion. The Deutsche Reich
Partei, the only ultra Right-
wing party that exists openly,
has 16,000 members. In the
last Federal election it got
300,000 votes out of a total of
31,000,000. The rest of the
extreme Right-wing groups,
totalling about 100,000 mem-
bers, are little cells of militant
Nazis and Waffen-S.S. trying
to keep alive a memory of
their former glory. They are
a weird mixture of Chauvin-
ism, anti - Bolshevism, anti -
Semitism, dreaming of the
Fourth Reich and revenge.
They are the sticks for a fire,
but, without the spark, so much
dead wood. They are all linked-
up somehow with the tenuous
but insidious web of inter-
national Fascism.
“Typical of their leaders is
Karl Heinz Priester, 47, Hitler
Youth, Strength Through Joy,
and finally S.S. officer. He is
German representative of the
European Fascist Movement,
whose headquarters are in
Malmo, Sweden.
Communist Aid
“Communists supply money
to some of these groups. If is
in their interest to keep the
spectre of Nazism nourished.
The Communists also have a
finger in the youth groups—
the Eagle Youth Federation,
the Viking Youth, the Schiller
Youth, the German Wander-
birds and others.
“They are led by former
Hitler Youth and S.S. men like
Peter Bernau, Gunter Hessler,
Alfred Zitzmann, who signs
himself ‘Viking,’ Helmut Peeck,
Raoul Nahrath. About 35,000


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
to 50,000 youngsters are in
their following.
“Last June the seven group-
leaders banded themselves to-
gether into the National Youth
Association. The first Federal
fuehrer is none otter than a
former East German Com-
munist-party official, Hans
Schulz, who came West posing
as a refugee. Everything points
strongly to the fact that he is
a Communist agent sent here
with the object of stirring-up
the mud. Main theme of the
inaugural meeting was the de-
mand for foreign forces to quit
Germany.
“The groups Wear various
uniforms, military badges,
neckerchiefs, have drums and
bugles, sing the old Nazi songs
and read forbidden copies of
Mein Kampf.
“The Adenauer Government,
particularly Adenauer himself,
tends to pooh-pooh these move-
ments. Indeed, compared with
the six-million young people
belonging 'to reputable youth-
organisations, they are incon-
siderable. But it needs only a
pinch of yeast to make beer
ferment. However, Bonn keeps
a very wary eye on their
activities.
Conditions Required
“What are the conditions re-
quired to make them a real
danger? The mass unemploy-
ment of the ’thirties was the
principal factor in Hitler’s rise
to power. Added to that, Par-
liamentary democracy had
failed and there was bitter
resentment at the harshness of
the Versailles Peace Treaty.
Today there is the same resent-
ment about the division of Ger-
many. The only factor missing
in the equation is economic
collapse.”
But evidently this factor is
missing indeed. The Man-
chester “Guardian” reports
editorially that the West Ger-
man Government “has just
presented an account of
astonishing achievements over
the last 10 years.
“Since 1950, when the
national income started to ex-
ceed the pre-war level, it has
grown by 80 per cent. Unem-
ployment has been abolished,
12-million refugees and expel-
lees have been absorbed and
five-million new flats and nearly
200 miles of new motorways
have been built.
“Real wages have risen by
50 per cent., while working-
hours have been shortened, and
a comprehensive system of
social security has been
created.
A Few Extremists
“This is not the kind of
society whose foundations can
easily be shaken by a few
extremists with empty heads
and full paint-pots. Their
actions may even cause more
Germans frankly to face their
country’s recent past and to
prevent a repetition of dis-
London “News Chronicle."
“WHAT ABOUT THE TOP DRAWER, HERR DOKTOR?"
asters which millions of them
must still remember. The fur-
tive hooligans who now get
so much attention are much
less dangerous than the un-
repentant Nazis who still hold
high positions.”
Robert Muller, a German-
born reporter visiting West
Germany for the London
“Daily Mail,” reports that the
activities of the minority
groups of young neo-Nazis “are
rooted in guilt and ignorance
—the guilt of parents who, let
it never be forgotten, voted
Hitler into power and were
willing to support him until
he lost the war for Germany ;
the guilt of today’s teachers
who once marched with the
Hitler Youth and the S.A. and
are loath to condemn them-
selves in front of their pupils ;
the ignorance of today’s Ger-
man school-children about
Hitler.
“According to many boys
and girls I talked to, Hitler
was a man who built autobah-
nen and canals and bridges
and who cured unemployment,
but who ‘went a bit haywire
when Germany began to lose
the war because the rest of the
world went against us.’
“It is true that in this city
[Hamburg] at least their teach-
ing of recent history, includ-
ing the Third Reich and the
persecution of the Jews, is
compulsory, but this ruling
was made only a year ago, 14
years after the end of the war,
after the ignorance of school-
children about the immediate
past had become a national
scandal. And the history-books
available to teachers even now
maintain a discreet silence
about the worst excesses of the
Nazis.
“I looked at five such
modern history-books now
being used in schools here.
Four of them dismissed the
killing of over six-million Jews
in just one sentence, the fifth
in one paragraph.
“One of the books merely
refers to ‘thousands of Jews
losing their lives,’ another one
claims that ‘the German people
knew nothing at all about this,’
another does not mention the
word concentration-camp at all.
“None of the textbooks
choose to connect the mass-
extermination of Jews and
political opponents of the
regime with the German people
themselves. It was Hitler and
a vague ‘they’ who did it.
“These history-books reiter-
ate the fable of - Hitler’s
economic successes and clothe
the ugliest aspects of his reign
in flabby euphemisms. One
book even refers to the impor-
tation of slave-labor like this:
‘For everything that had to be
done the German labor-force
was insufficient. Foreigners
came to Germany and found
work there in the larger in-
dustrial concerns.’
Teachers Passive
“What can be expected of
the very young with textbooks
like these, and with teachers
(many of them old reinstated
Nazis or partly infected former
Hitler Youth members) who
are only too eager to follow


the advice of many contempor-
ary parents ‘to have done once
and for all with all that stuff
about the past’?
“ ‘Most teachers take a pas-
sive attitude politically,’ one of
my own former teachers ex-
plained to me. ‘They don’t
like to touch ticklish subjects.
The only line that fires the
enthusiasm of many of them is
that of reunification.’ ”
Reviewing the situation as
a whole, London “Economist”
argues editorially that, although
there are still too many ex-
Nazis in high West German
places and there is obviously
a need for Germany to cleanse
its past rather than try to
sweep it under the carpet of
anti-Communism, “Germany’s
allies will not help the
cleansing-process by relapsing
into righteous condemnation of
the German nation. They can
do no more than try to set their
own house in order and extend
a helping hand to the liberal
elements in Germany.
“The anti-Semitic incidents
that have spread like a rash
across the Western world may
have had a common origin.
One theory is that they have
been planned by a Fascist inter-
national organisation led by
an ex-Nazi in Cairo. It would
be useful to find out. But the
incidents also reflect the fact
that all our societies contain
violent and intolerant elements.
“British society, though it
has developed very powerful
resistances to them over the
years, is not free even today
from violence of thought or
action.
“To build-up a powerful
defensive mechanism of law
and opinion in a society with
so great a heritage of inward
division as Germany is a vastly
difficult task which will take a
long time.”
Futures: Who
Benefits?
VMIII Sydney’s new wool-
futures market be of
much benefit to the Australian
woolgrower? A correspondent
of Bradford “Wool Record”
doubts it.
Futures markets in general,
the writer holds, have in the
past “been proved to be of
the greatest value to those sec-
tions of the industry engaged
in most frequent ‘physical’
deals” —wool-merchants and
topmakers, spinners, manufac-
turers, cloth-merchants and
tailors, in that order; all of
whom are rarely out of the
market.
It cannot be argued, the
writer adds, that the wool-
grower is similarly engaged in
the market:
“Most growers do one deal
a year in wool. Their clip goes
into a catalogue with scores of
others. When a grower shears,
he does not know to two or
three weeks when his clip will
be sold.
“The promoters of the Syd-
ney futures market, to be of
use to growers, should tell
them just how to assess market
prospects at different advance
intervals—say, from three days
to three months —so that the
single estimate will prove right
in regard to the sale of one
London “Daily Mail”
“IS THERE ONE BOOM-BOOM—OR TWO BOOM-BOOMS—IN ‘MACMILLAN’?”
clip on one day. Of course
it can’t be done.
“It has been said that, in the
Bradford wool-trade, if you
guess right three times out of
five you are as smart as the
next man. The same is true of
futures. But the grower is not
likely to be in the futures
market five times. His clip is
usually sold on one day, and
what he wants is a hedge
against a slump on that day,
or in the period between his
futures deal and that day. The
futures markets of the world
are run by those who are in
and out\ at short intervals all
through the year: the grower
does not belong in that crowd.”
Then, the writer adds, there
is the difficulty of setting and
agreeing on standards:
“It will be marvellous if
the Sydney futures authorities
can standardise one type for
the whole of Australia. The
Central Wool Committee and
A.W.B. have never achieved
anything like this. And when a
type is agreed, it will be
interesting to know what adjust-
ments in their own standards
floor-members have to make in
their physical shipments.
But, as about 80 types will
be deliverable or appraisable
against the standard, it means
that all 80 must be fixed on
quality, length and style for
the whole of Australia! With-
out fixed types, differentials
will be irregular and capricious,
Some producers have com-
mented bitterly about top-ap-
praisals by the British futures
officials, though they have only
tops to judge and not wool
from hundreds of growing-
districts and breeds.
“This brings up the next
futures difficulty for the grower,
As a rule, he does not know
how the main class of his clip
compares with type 78 [the
projected standard type] and
often even less about its yield,
So that if ‘futures 78’ stand at
80d., clean, the information
means nothing to him, and he
is in the hands of his selling-
broker to translate it, just as he
is now in that broker’s hands
for an estimate of what his
clip should make. It is even
more difficult for a grower to
reckon-up his smaller lines, so
that in any event he would
find it hard to hedge on his
whole clip.”
But, the writer adds, it can
be argued that “the grower who
tries to protect himself on
Sydney futures, and guesses
wrong, can do a few more
futures deals and come out
level. Of course he can, or
lose still more; but playing
futures is not woolgrowing. He
then puts himself in the day-
to-day gambling class.
“If a small grower hedges on
futures successfully at, say,
a profit of 6d. a clean lb., he
will find he pays out nearly half
of this in brokerage and other
expenses, and, without knowing
the type and yield of all his
classed lines and their differen-
tials from type 78, he never
will be able to calculate just
how much he has won. If a
selling-broker or growers’ co-
operative company grades a
hundred small clips into large
lines and some growers want
to hedge, what happens?
“It is hard to envisage the
little grower, the mixed farmer
or the crossbred growers see-
ing much attraction in futures
to hedge against what may
happen in five minutes of one
catalogue on one selling-day
out of 200.
“The Australian grower
would probably be satisfied
with a scheme that gave him
the fair average price of the
season for the types he pro-
duces, regardless of whether he
sells in November or May—a
kind of mutual averaging. If
to this could be added a ‘floor,’
even at less than average pro-
duction-cost, most of hfe
marketing-troubles would dis-
appear.
“But these ends require
‘neutral’ valuation of every
lot on absolutely uniform
standards, for which the
valuing-teams just do not exist;
the central collection and dis-
tribution of proceeds, or part
of them, for which the
accountants’ teams do not
exist; and, finally, a board with
experience, brains and courage
to fix the height of the fl°° r
—and that does not exist,
“The proposed futures
facilities hardly go an iud l


“White Label”
... freely available!
At last the years of short supply are over!
"White Label” is now available every-
where. Whether you ask for "Dewar’s” or
"White Label”— you will always get this
wonderful Scotch Whisky with the mellow
flavour the choice of discriminating
people for over a century.
white Label
Dewars Fine Scotch Whisky
wbn Dewar & Sons l*
- p SCOTLAND
"White Label"
Dewars
Scotch Whisky
"it never varies*
Guaranteed wholly distilled,
blended and matured in Scotland.
dw.ss
toward meeting the grower’s
needs. Yet really he is the man
who matters: the rest of the
Australian wool-trade rides on
him.”
Stevenson on
Disarmament
tn the course of a long article
in the U.S. quarterly
“Foreign Affairs,” Adlai
Stevenson, twice Democratic
candidate for the U.S. Presi-
dency, offers some thoughts on
world disarmament:
“The root of East-West ten-
sion is fear. Whether it is
rational or irrational, justified
or not, hardly matters. It
exists, and the peoples, especi-
ally Americans and Russians,
have been indoctrinated with
this fear of one another—
these devil images—for years.
Arms are a symptom of the
fears and tensions between
nations. Therefore, the argu-
ment goes, disarmament is im-
possible until political settle-
ments have been reached and
confidence restored.
“I disagree. I believe the
nuclear-arms race with wea-
pons ( of mass destruction is a
new element and in itself a
cause of tension. Of course,
as I have said, we must try
everlastingly to improve rela-
tions by exchanges, negotia-
tions, common projects, trade
and agreements . when possible.
But fear will not vanish until
the arms-race is arrested.
“We will have to proceed on
all these matters simultane-
ously. As Mr. Selwyn Lloyd,
of Great Britain, said in pre-
senting the British plan for
comprehensive disarmament
which preceded Mr. Khrush-
chev’s : ‘lf we get political
settlements it will make agree-
ment on disarmament easier ;
and if. we get an agreement
on disarmament it will make
political settlement easier.’
“From what he said to me,
I think Mr. Khrushchev agrees,
too. And I am much encour-
aged by evidence from many
quarters that the Russians are
genuinely worried about the
political and technical dangers
and cost to the U.S.S.R. of
continuing the arms-race in-
definitely. Moreover, the
United Nations disarmament
resolution, agreed to, mirabile
dictu, by the United States and
the Soviet Union, recognises
that disarmament itself will
promote trust between nations
and declares that disarmament
is the most important question
facing the world today.
“In short, it looks as though
controlled disarmament was'
back at the top of the world’s
agenda where it belongs. I
am sorry that the United States
did not take and hold the lead
as I urged in the 1956 Presi-
dential campaign. The recent
proposal by some of our
leaders that the United States
resume underground nuclear
tests just when the first break
in the arms-deadlock seems
possible, shocked me. I can
think of few better ways to
chill the prospects, deface our
peaceful image and underscore
the Communist propaganda
that they are the peacemakers
and we the warmongers.
“We should extend our test-
suspension so long as negotia-
tions continue in good faith
and Russia maintains a similar
suspension. The good faith of
the negotiations is decisive, be-
cause indefinite suspension
amounts to a test-ban without
inspection.
“Whether Mr. Khrushchev
and his associates in the Krem-
lin really mean business de-
pends on agreement to two
main principles: (a) that con-
ventional and nuclear disarma-
ment must go hand in hand, so
that the balance of security
between nations is not upset;
and ( b ) that progress at each
stage must be subject to effec-
tive international control.
“If universal and total dis-
armament should ever take
place a third need will arise:
a supra-national force of some
kind, as I have insisted to Mr.
Khrushchev, in order that the
sheer weight of such Powers
as Russia and America—or
China—may not intimidate
smaller neighbors. The com-
position, control and use of
such a force, Of course, present
a host of further questions.
“Meanwhile, pending the
disarmament millennium, we
must, as I have said, make
good the deficiencies in our de-
fences to keep at least an
equality of strength with the
Russians. And I think it
would be naive to assume that
they are yet ready to embark
on the kind of positive co-
operation in other respects
which would establish real col-
lective security. The conspira-
torial tradition is very old and
deep rooted in Communist
thinking, and when they talk
of ‘peaceful competition,’ for
example, I suspect that most
Communists would include
under that label political sub-
version, coups d’etat, and even
revolution under Communist-
party leadership.
“Nevertheless, I think we
may be approaching the time
when the arms-race with Russia
can be arrested. Once a revo-
lutionary regime leaves behind
its adolescent fanaticism, risk
and cost become powerful con-
siderations. I believe they
exercise genuine influence in
Moscow today and that we
should do what we can to
encourage the trend.”


the small landholders that
“collectivisation is the only
means to achieve prosperity and
happiness” by using as its
mouthpiece old peasant political
identities. These former repre-
sentatives of the small land-
holders have been harassed
into giving up the ghost of
independence, or “bought” by
the Government.
The landholders treat these
agitators with contempt. They
don’t want any part of collec-
tivisation.
Life in the kolkhozs is any-
thing but prosperity and hap-
piness. At Mezokovesd the
peasants in one of the big
collective farms rebelled against
the authorities because they
d : d not receive their dues. When
the police-force arrived they
defended themselves with sickles
and any other “weapons” they
managed to get. In their rage
they beheaded the kolkhoz's
president. The police were
beaten back, and the Govern-
ment ordered the Army to take
the kolkhoz.
The Hungarian soldiers
refused to fire on the peasants.
(This incident explains quite
clearly why Kadar insists that
Russian troops should remain
on Hungarian soil while
the “international situation”
warrants this. Kadar could
depend just as little on the
Hungarian Army as Rakosi
did.)
Russian soldiers were
ordered to take the kolkhoz.
Despite the numerical
superiority, and their weapons,
the peasants fought the foreign
intruders. Only after a veri-
table battle was “order
restored.” Many lives were lost
on both sides.
'T'he Hungarians have the
gallows-humor to laugh at
their own misfortune, which
enables them to preserve their
sanity, and a will to carry on
even under the most adverse
circumstances. A foreigner who
sees smil ng faces, a lust for life,
is tricked into believing that the
Hungarians have tossed-in the
towel.
The people themselves, when
they remember the events of
’56, agree that the present status
quo is unacceptable. Their
living-standards may have im-
proved, the pressure of work,
the “production competitions”
(hail to the Stakhanovites!)
have eased for a while; but
they are being reintroduced.
Not only the intellectuals
but the factory-workers as well
hate the Government. They
hate it not because it is a Com-
munist regime but for being
foreign-dictated.
“The Russki is our master,”
they say, being convinced that
if there is overproduction it
is immediately sent by the
Budapest stooges to Russia.
a wave of
strange optimism vibrates
through the land. Before
Kadar and Khrushchev said in
speeches that the Russian
troops were to remain in
Hungary a lot of people had
talked about their departure.
Some even reported columns
and columns of Russians mov-
ing towards the frontiers. There
was a .persistent rumor about
Austrian troops taking Over in
Hungary to maintain order
while the “great change will
take place.”
Why all these guesses and
rumors? The answers are un-
certain, but they all point in
one direction: the Russian
economy is shaky.
Russia’s “moon triumph”
didn’t convince anyone about
their “master’s might.”
“Well” —they cracked their
joke in the style of the Buda-
pesters —“fancy that —even the
moon had to lose its virginity.”
J’his was the compliment they
paid to the great Soviet techni-
cal achievement.
News from the West is being
read and listened to avidly, but
there is bitterness in their
minds, too.
“The West left us in the
lurch,” they say. But they are
full of enthusiasm about the
Poles. “In Poland,” they
think, “there was a definite pro-
gress towards liberalisation.
Gomulka is the right man.”
“Then would you like to
follow Gomulka’s example?”
Hungarians were asked.
The answers were uncertain.
Opinions are very much
divided. There are many who
do not wish for a drastic
change in the regime, only
“liberalisation.” Why the Aus-
trians should come in as a
force to maintain law and
order puzzled most, yet the
rumor was diligently doing its
rounds.
Oumming -up contemporary
Hungary, the “Literary
Journal” concluded: “The sur-
face appears to be smooth
enough, but beneath it are
the unquenched desires [for
freedom and dignity], and the
great bitterness. There are
those who think that the
cemetery (and by this the Hun-
garians mean their beloved
country) blooms, and it will
keep on blooming, but others
maintain that what appears to
be a cemetery is nothing else
but a dormant volcano, ready
to erupt —any time.”
But it was Douglas Cameron,
a British journalist, who
touched the very essence of the
Hungarian problem.
Mr. Cameron, who recently
visited Budapest, wrote: “It is
quite natural that people,
especially the students, desire
to travel to the West, but the
surprise is that not too many
want to leave their country for
ever. A young and definitely
anti - Communist university
student, when I asked him
whether he would leave Hun-
gary if given an opportunity,
said: ‘lt is not I who should
leave Hungary, but the
Russians.’ ”
Hungary, 1960. It is the
fourth year that a nation waits,
dreams, prays and jokes about
its ledemption. Will the
wish ever—ever —come true?
Or will freedom remain for
ever a rainbow?
the man with the beard away
with his arm. He did not
unclench his fist or take his
gaze from the young man.
The other men told the man
with the beard to sit down.
One of them had walked to
the wall on the left-hand side
of the man standing over
Phillip. He stood there smiling.
The one who had addressed
Phillip first sat shaking his
head and laughing to himself.
Phillip stood up. He was
pushing back his stool.
Just then the man called
Max pushed past the girl in the
doorway.
“Jack!” he called. “Jack,
touch that young feller and
I'll cut you to pieces.” He
brushed a wave of dark hair
back out of his eyes and
advanced on the man called
Jack.
“There’s a rule here,” he said,
“that prevents us from fight-
ing with customers. But I’ll
break it —and your neck with
it if I have to.”
The man called Jack
unclenched his fists and looked
sourly at Max. He walked past
his friends towards the door.
At the door he paused. “I
respect you, Max,” he said.
“But I hate these smart b s
from the city.” He left before
anyone could answer him.
“I think it’s time we all got
to bed,” the man with the
beard said. “We’d better get
Jack home safely, anyway.”
The men swallowed their
drinks quickly and left. None
of them wore shoes.
“They won’t worry you any
more,” said Max. “They go
back tomorrow.”
“Yes, back tomorrow, and a
good thing, maybe. Though
they’re decent blokes sober.”
“I was talking to a couple
of them earlier in the day,”
Phillip said. “They just seemed
to get a bit savage on me
tonight.”
“They’re like that,” Max
said. “They lead a pretty
lonely life over there on their
island. No women ... no life
at all. They go wild when
they get a few days away from
it.”
“They’re not bad blokes,” the
old man Laurie said. “Not bad
blokes, just a bit gnarly some-
times. I remember ...”
“I think we can close-up
now, Laurie,” Max said.
It was just on two o’clock.
■jV/TAX leaned across the bar,
resting his head in his
hands. The sweep of black
hair was down across his fore-
head again.
“Get a fright?” he asked
Jennifer. He laughed loudly as-
he said it. The girl had not
spoken since the men left.
“It was dreadful,” the girl
said.
The three men laughed.
“Get a few cans of, beer,”
Max said to Phillip. “I've got
some lovely mud-crabs back
there. We’ll get down to your
bungalow and have a feed.”
The young man and the girl
bought the cans of beer and
left. They walked close
together, and he had his arm
around her waist.
“Is Max coming down?” the
girl asked.
“In a minute, when he’s
finished closing up.”
“I enjoyed our quiet drink
tonight until they intruded,”
Jennifer said.
“Yes, it was nice.”
“The beer and crab sounds
nice,” the girl said.
“Very nice,” Phillip said.


small terrace of three single-
story brick houses, covered with
a cream plaster. At the eastern
end of the terrace stood the
police-station and cells, built
of bluestone. A row of pine-
trees later sheltered the
barracks on the northern side.
It would have been more
appropriate had those trees
been oaks, for the name Kildare
derived from St. Bridget’s cell,
which was built under a large
oak-tree in sth-century Ireland.
“Kil-dara” meant “the church
of the oak.”
Now, it is impossible to prove
that Joseph Archibald lived
in the police-barracks. The
town’s rate-books for these
years show no Archibald either
renting or owning property in
Kildare; and, as the Victorian
Government had a commend-
able practice of building homes
for its police, teachers and
(later) rail way men, it seems
certain —and other evidence
confirms this —that the barracks
were, in fact, Archibald’s home.
The site was well chosen.
The two Geelong breweries
which supplied the goldfields
dispatched their barrels by
bullock-wagon. The pub
opposite the police-station was
the last big one before the
teamsters headed towards the
long pull up Bell Post Hill on
the road to Ballarat. And,
teamsters being what they were
in those days, more' than one
barrel was broached by the pub
before the journey began.
Drunkenness and brawls were
a commonplace.
Indicative of the lawlessness
that prevailed was the fact that
two prison-hulks were anchored
in the bay; in 1853 the
authorities decided that a large
new jail must be built to house
local offenders.
When, on September 20,
Governor La Trobe landed at
Geelong Beach to attend the
ceremonies that marked the
beginning of the railway-line to
Melbourne, Archibald was on
duty among the crowd of men
in top-hats and women in crino-
lines who thronged the streets
for the celebrations.
His brief courtship of an
English girl, Charlotte Jean
Madden, from Cambridge, who
was then living in Melbourne,
culminated in marriage at St.
Francis’s Church, Melbourne,
in January, 1854. Past their
home in Kildare later on (in
December) came Patrick Carroll
with fellow-irishman Peter
Lalor, wounded leader of the
Eureka affair, hidden in his
carrier’s wagon.
'T'he first child of Charlotte
and Joseph Archibald,
John Feltham, was born at
Kildare on January 14, 1856.
Although Archie’s death-
certificate in 1919 showed his
place of birth as Adelaide, the
birth-certificate, Reg. No. 315
(which the late J. K. Moir
kindly made available to-me),
stated that he was born at
Kildare. His father, Joseph
Archibald, aged 31, gave his
address as Police Station,
Kildare, and stated that
Charlotte Jane’s age was 27 ;
however, a footnote to the
certificate, which is signed by
the registrar, James Quinan,
adds that the “Mother’s age is
only 26.” The birth was regis-
tered at Geelong on January 21,
1856.
Next year the bluestone
school, known as St. Patrick’s,
was built a few hundred yards
from the barracks. As this
school was also used as a
church it is very likely it was
here that Archie’s parents went
to mass o’ Sundays, for the
old freestone church where St.
Mary’s now stands was several
miles away in the town.
Senior Sergeant Archibald’s
career was notable, for those
days, in that his was a record
of a “completely honorable
career unmarked by startling
events.”
When Archie was six years
old his father was transferred
to Ballarat, and here Archie’s
schooling must have begun. As
yet, of course, no State schools,
as such, existed.
The family remained four
years in Ballarat (until March
13, 1863) before moving south.
The records show that Archi-
bald began duty at Warrnam-
bool on June 22 of that year.
During the intervening three
months he may have served at
Belfast (now Port Fairy).
Hence, young Archibald could
not have begun his studies at
the Warrnambool Catholic
School until he was in his 11th
year.
He left school at the age of
14 or 15 —possibly after his
mother’s death, for his father
remarried in March, 1873.
“Edinburgh - born John
Mather, who had arrived
in Adelaide in 1860, first met
Archie in 1873 when both
worked as compositors for the
Warrnambool “Standard.”
In an article published in
1934 (and loaned me by Miss
Gladys Archibald) Mather
wrote of visits to Archibald’s
home, where Archie shared a
room with his brother Joe.
Dislike of his New Zealand-
born stepmother—he called her
“The Maori” —kept him out of
all parts of the house except
the dining-room and bedroom.
In the latter he practised short-
hand-writing at Mather’s dicta-
tion—and indulged in somnam-
bulism.
At the age of 18 Archie was
correspondent for the Hamilton
“Spectator” and also leader-
writer for two local papers, the
“Advertiser” and the
“Guardian,” which strongly
opposed each other’s policies.
It was not unusual for him to
finish as compositor for the
“Standard” at 2 a.m., then
walk round to one of the other
newspaper - offices to write
leaders when the editor was too
“well-inked” to do so. Mather
recalls one occasion:—-
One night we went to the office o f
one paper to help “The Brig,” as
the proprietor was called. We
found him out, but Archibald took
possession and found a quantity of
copy which we put in type. When
all was done we could, Archibald
wrote on a large sheet of paper,
in bold characters, “The Brig sailed
about 8 o’clock this evening and is
expected to return about 11 p.m.,
three sheets in the wind.”
His apprenticeship concluded,
Archie went to Melbourne,
where, after some time as a
journalist, “Mr. John Archi-
bald” was appointed clerk in
the office of the Victorian Edu-
cation Department (April 3,
1876). In the records the name
“Julian” is shown in pencil
above “John.” He remained a
civil servant until April 2, 1878.
Mather says he was sacked
for exposing in the press “the
follies or worse of a high
official.” Another story has it
that Archie’s job was to render
into good English the speeches
of his superior, but that, rebel-
ling against this prettifying of
paragraphs, he deliberately all-
owed errors to be published.
The official record gives no
reason for his dismissal. (If
anyone is keen enough to
investigate the point further,
the Minister for Education at
this time, when “free, compul-
sory and secular” was only four
years old, was Hon. Collard
Smith.)
Before Archie left the Edu-
cation Department his father
was promoted to sub-inspector,
and later inspector, at Sand-
hurst (Bendigo). And the year
that Inspector Archibald was
superannuated his son pub-
lished the first issue of The
Bulletin. He was then 24
years of age.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“All of One Company”
Recent statements by two
men one a professional
soldier, the other a citizen
soldier —underline the divided
approach to the problem of
building-up Australia’s Army.
Speaking at Perth, Lieu-
tenant - General Sir Ragnar
Garrett said that the Army of
the future would have “more
Indians and fewer chiefs” to
release more money for equip-
ment and for streamlining. Sir
Wilfred Kent Hughes, in a
letter to the press criticising
the Government’s new deal for
the Army, doubts whether the
Australian Regular Army will
be able to provide much more
than aerodrome-defence. With
the abolition of National Ser-
vice he considers that “the
C.M.F. is destined to wither
away” and become at best
merely a cadre of officers and
N.C.O.s.
The suggested reduction of
the A.R.A.’s role to that of
aerodrome-guards may seem a
small point to pick on, but it
is a symptom of the citizen-
soldier’s tendency to belittle
the capabilities and achieve-
ments of the professional. The
simple fact is that they are
complementary; each needs
the other. The only valid criti-
cism of the Government’s plan
for the Army is that the in-
crease in the A.R.A. is hardly
commensurate with the in-
crease in Australia’s defence
responsibilities and her in-
creasing resources of men,
money and material.
Having freed the A.R.A.
and the C.M.F. from the dead
weight of inadequate National
Service training for men un-
available in any case for over-
seas service, it is hard to see
why “the C.M.F. is destined to
wither away.” The four-
months’ continuous training
under the Australian model of
N.S. failed to make the trainees
really part of the Army to the
extent which the two-year ser-
vice with the colors does in
Britain and the U.S. The Gov-
ernment’s decision to integrate
as far as possible the training
of the A.R.A. and the C.M.F.
is a means of making them,
in the words of Drake, “all of
one company.”
We are still paying the price
of “playing at National Ser-
vice” for nearly 10 years. Sir
Wilfred, as a member of the
Government during some of
the relevant period, must
accept his share of responsi-
bility for this, and also for
the Government’s failure to
amend the Defence Act to
ensure that soldiers, like sea-
“He's just done quads.”
men and airmen, have a duty
to serve overseas.
As it is, the whole basis of
service in the A.R.A. and the
C.M.F. rests on a doubtful
subterfuge. Men are accepted
only if they volunteer to serve
overseas, whereas Section 49
of the Defence Act seems
clearly to imply that a citizen
has a right to join the Army
first and decide afterwards
whether he is a volunteer for
overseas service.
Surely it is better to test this
question in a court of law now,
rather than wait to divide the
Army, once again, during the
crisis of war. —C. C. M. Usher
(N.S.W.).
Nazi and Jew
I was very disappointed in
the Nazi-and-Jew article in
B. 13/1/’6O.
At the beginning of the Nazi
movement less than one person
in every hundred in Germany
was Jewish. As most of these
lived in big cities and were
thoroughly assimilated, it can
be said that many Nazis never
in their lives saw a person
inside Germany whom they
could identify as a Jew —.par-
ticularly since most Jews who
could be identified left Ger-
many as soon as they could.
The picture of the Jew came to
most Nazis through hateful
caricatures and descriptions of
alleged Jewish malpractices of
much the same nature as the
accusations in The Bulletin.
Germans infected by the pro-
paganda excepted in their
minds such Jews as they hap-
pened to know ; it was always
the others. The Jewish friend
was pleased to be excepted, and
very often helped to blacken
the imaginary Jew who made
his lot so difficult.
The 19th-century Tsarist
Governments encouraged
orgiastic blood-baths of the
Jewish populations of Russia
and Poland in order to deflect
the people’s wrath from the
Governments themselves. Many
of these Jews escaped to
Western Europe. They were
mostly tradesmen, such as
tailors, cobblers, etc., and
hawkers. Their cultural
standards were, like the strata
of society in which they had
lived, very low.
Western Jews thoroughly
assimilated in their respective
countries were ashamed and
contemptuous of these crude
brethren who made their own.
assimilation more difficult by
constituting a distinct and
identifiable group of low cul-
tural standards. It can even
be said that the Eastern Jews
had no more bitter enemies
than the assimilated Jews of
the countries they happened to
be in. Indeed, a great deal 0/
anti-Semitic propaganda came
from Jews who hoped that
by reviling others they’d be
accepted by the persecutors.—
John Hammond (N.S.W.).
Union Rules
The Commonwealth Indus-
trial Court’s recent decision
that nine of the A.W.U.’s rules
are invalid raises the questions
of why the rules were registered
in the first place and how
many other unions are operat-
ing under rules that impose
hardships on some members
and could be challenged.
Union rules are generally
formulated by a committee or
board appointed for the pur-
pose. Usually the members-
of this committeee are con-
cerned with the cohesion of
the union and the disciplining of
members whose actions, de-
liberately or not, may tend to
reduce its strength. Certainly
the main object of the rules is
to increase the union’s power
to bargain or argue for better
wages and conditions.
That’s o.k. But frequently
the aims of unionism are lost
in an apparent attempt to
coerce members into accept-
ance of decisions and policies
favored by a governing
minority ; and rules are often
framed to help governing
members to retain office. (A
case in point is where the rules
permit a committee-of-manage-
ment to appoint a returping-
officer who, also under the
rules, is given complete con-
trol of ballot-papers and the;
sole right to scrutinise them
and say how the votes were
cast.) Innocuous rules are
sometimes introduced through
the inexperience or ignorance
of the framers.
Admittedly the rules must be
accepted by a majority at ai
general meeting, but that could
mean a majority of 30 or 40|
members out of 2000. It
doesn’t help to point out that 1
a union as apathetic as that
deserves what it gets. If f° f j
any reason at all I am unable
to attend a meeting, or if
arguments at that meeting are
unavailing, if shouldn’t folio"'


Now in Book-form
"Duke" Tritton's
“TIME MEANS TUCKER”
! i
. *
< \U
6
r
V -V?* V
it
“W
$
*>\r
v.: :. •: '*v
-VwW*
f***
in’
>*'V»
,r -
«S»
A
This factual account of a shearer-drover’s experiences
in the sheds and on the track has proved to be one of
the most popular serials ever printed in “The Bulletin.”
Reader-demand for in book-form has been
constant.
It’s now off the press—and the price has been kept
down to 10s. a copy, post free.
PLEASE USE COUPON BELOW.
Available also over-the-counter from branch offices in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
ORDER FORM
Book Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please post copy/copies of
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"
by H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
NAME
ADDRESS
Price per copy, 10s.
(Post free )
STATE
Amount enclosed
that the other few members
present have the power to im-
pose rules which could en-
danger my livelihood or
restrict my actions. The Arbi-
tration Courts should not regis-
ter rules which violate the
Constitution or run counter to
civil laws.
There’s a safeguard, but it
could be costly in time and
money. Any member who
objects to a rule of his union
may apply to the court to have
the rule removed. That in-
volves at least a day off work
possibly longer without
pay and with the certainty of
incurring the enmity of the
ruling junta and the possibility
of being open to disciplinary
action.
This shouldn’t be necessary.
The State and Commonwealth
Industrial registrars should be
capable of assessing the objects
and worth of rules and should
refuse to register rules which
are obviously inimical to even
a small section of the union’s
membership or to the industry
as a whole. It would then be
up to the union—the governing
body—to argue its point in
court.
Where union-membership is
compulsory a member’s chance
of working at his trade depends
on his retaining membership.
Rules which permit his expul-
sion or intimidation should be
registered only after the
offences for which he can be
disciplined have been given
very serious consideration. In
no case should rules be regis-
tered, as they are now, on the
excuse that any member who
likes can object. Not one per
cent, of all the unionists in
Australia would feel in a posi-
tion to offend the ruling body
of their union.— Pieter Nuyts
(W.A.).
Formosa
Thanks to Dr. Goddard (B.
13/1/’6O) for his offer to meet
in Formosa, but I regret
taing unable to accept—
unless he sends me a cheque
to cover travel and other costs.
However, I live in a country
closer than his to Formosa and
Inc Chinese mainland; a
country which might suffer
tnore from any aggression from
Peking.
If there appeared the slightest
ukelihood of the 10-million
Porrnosan Chinese being able
0 establish a thoroughly inde-
pendent and viable State
Accepted as such by mainland
China, Russia, Japan, the U.S.
a hd others, and having its inde-
pendent status acknowledged
by the United Nations, I be-
lieve most Australians, as well
as their Government, would be
delighted. Such a consumma-
tion, however, appears ex-
tremely unlikely.
Such a move, of course,
would resolve at once the
problem of who should occupy
the Chinese seat in the U.N.
and the Security Council (the
latter a permanent one). With-
out in the least condoning the
Chinese aggression in Korea,
Tibet, India and elsewhere, I
believe that membership of
U.N. might mitigate Peking’s
recalcitrance and perhaps offer
some hope of curbing future
forays.
Dr. Goddard may be an un-
impeachable authority on the
geography and economy of
Formosa, but the weight of un-
biased opinion on the chances
of a successful revolt on the
Chinese mainland against the
present Communist masters is
against him—no matter how
much this may be regretted.
I am very well aware that
concessions to Peking might
have unfortunate repercussions.
The Indonesians have found
the past concessions to the
“overseas” Chinese in their
midst have come home to
roost unpleasantly, and they are
now taking action which is un-
palatable to Peking. India has
discovered that its determined
attempts to maintain friendship
with China have been answered
by armed invasion of its
frontier.
But all this does not convince
me that mainland China can
be “contained” by a policy of
ignoring its existence and
assuming that its present regime
is temporary. I believe that
Russia is perhaps more appre-
hensive than any other nation
at the present situation, and
that its Pacific missile-tests and
claims of “fantastic” weapons
are propaganda aimed more at
Peking than at Washington
pr even the Summit.
In other words, most of the
world, including even the U.S.,
is beginning to believe that to
prevent a catastrophic world
conflict China must somehow
be brought into the comity of
nations. China is doubtless
well aware of such fears, and
trades on them ; but that does
not make them any the less
real.
If the process of bringing
China into more civilised and
acceptable relationships is
found to involve the liquidation
not of the Formosan people
but of the ageing Nationalist
regime, then we may have to
bear this loss. The dividend
might be a China prepared to


live and let live —at least while
it grapples with its own
immense problems of popu-
lation-expansion and develop-
ment and with efforts to revive
some of the better forms of
Chinese civilisation. One con-
dition might be a guarantee,
properly policed, of the
Formosan people's safety.
Admittedly, China might not
play ball. The Chinese brand
of Communism might prove
even less trustworthy than its
Soviet prototype. It might at
once take advantage of what
it could consider contemptible
weakness. But is there an
alternative? What, except some
disastrous explosion, does Dr.
Goddard envisage as the out-
come of continued Western
obstinacy on the Formosan
issue? Charles Meekinq
(N.S.W.).
Darwin’s Centenary
Since the Origin of Species
is one of the most influential
books ever published,' it is
remarkable how little was made
of the centenary of its publi-
cation (1959)—above all in
Australia, where an important
city bears the author’s name.
I can’t recall one article on
the Origin in the Australian
quarterlies or an editorial in
the weeklies and dailies.
Overseas there were quite a
few, some—like a fine one in
London “Encounter” —revolv-
ing around perhaps the most
significant Darwinian event of
“Blow hard!”
1959: the publication of
another long - thought - over
book, Darwin and the
Darwinian Revolution, by
Dr. Gertrude Himmelfarb,
which should send readers back
to the Origin of Species itself.
It cannot be too often
insisted that the book’s full
title is Qn the Origin of Species
by Means of . Natural Selec-
tion. Critically read, however,
Darwin’s book gives us chiefly
flights of a fertile imagination,
dealing very little with the
elusive origin of species and
not at all with the origins
of the great orders of classes
and phyla. Its argument and
evidence move in a different
direction towards minute
specialised adaptations leading
nowhere, unless to extinction.
Dr. Himmelfarb demon-
strates very clearly that Dar-
win’s conceptions were not ex-
amples of Baconian induction
in operation, but of the far
commoner method of “invent-
ing a theory and seeing how
many classes of facts the
theory would explain.”
Privately, of course, Darwin
had no illusions, as he showed
in a letter to his friend
Bentham (22/5/1863): “When
we descend to details we can
prove that no one species has
changed ; nor can we prove
that the supposed changes are
beneficial, which is the ground-
work of the theory.” And tc
Lyell a little earlier he con-
fessed: “Often a cold shuddei
runs through me, and I havt
asked myself whether I maj
not have devoted my life to a
phantasy.”
Dr. H.immelfarb in hei
monumental book has used the
findings of modern psychology
upon Darwin personally ase
well as being strictly logical'
in considering his work, so
some hostility has been dis-
played against her. One angry
critic went so far as to accusel
her of ignorance of experi-
ments proceeding since 1926
and involving the coloration of
moths in English industrial
areas.
Jt would seem that sootfall,
etc., in certain woods darkened
the foliage, so that of two
species of moths the lighter was
more easily visible to birds,
Therefore in those woods, as
was proved statistically, the
proportion of black moths to
white was far greater than in
other woods where there was
little if any darkening oi
foliage. .
True, this has been a trumpy
card with evolutionists. Bui-
what does it prove? Merely'
that there is such a thing as
natural selection, which no ons
denies. What is contested is|
its extent and originating
capacity. In the instance abovt
it obviously did not original
the differences between colora-
tion of the moths, and no one
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 575
Across
I—Fm1 —Fm taken in by Mrs. Rainier’s looks; looks to be
forbidding high honors, though. (8)
s—Who fastens 500 over you by the small piano. (4, 2)
10 — Steep descents detected the presence of Burl in blood-
hound style. (4-5)
11 — Senior tree. (5)
12 — Fares collected with greater security. (5)
13 — About to go to the dogs, they do
the linotyping all over again. (9)
14 — Fat attitude which Diana
strikes. (7)
17 — Lovely ode Longfellow wrote
includes a milkman’s call. (5)
18 — Can’t see a frustration for a
peeping Tom. (5)
19 — Who starts to go down. (7)
21 —Gets smaller business commit-
ments. (9)
23 — He is in good spirits, despite
choler. (5)
24 Who initiates lucky under-
graduates into golf instruction. (5)
25 Long time opposite to such? (9)
26 — Don’t yield when sister is
hiding. (6)
27 — As the first to fashion us, this
Jewish king of the demons must
be named. (8)
Down
1 — Flora makes seating arrange-
ments. (7)
2 They're like 25-across. (15)
3 This makes one poisoner
totter. (5)
4 Lime never used to dye red. (9)
6 Broadcaster’s remark concerning
the bowling against which you
are batting. (4, 2,3)
7 Communist - dominated football
case for Sherlock. (3-6, 6)
8— A South American girl is read-
ing. (7)
9 —Goddess is doubled. (4)
15 — Soldiers place a request for dis-
honesty. (9)
16 — Foe’s fun is to be expected of
such gushful enthusiasm. (9)
18—A small shield fastener. (7)
20 —A messer messed about with a
pharaoh. (7)
22 — Box containing aces. (4)
23 — Renegade I Italianised is not
lacking proportion. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 574


Legal Notice
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-
KIN
RE JOHANNA MOLE late of Merton
Road South Brisbane in the State of
Queensland and of Goodna and Too-
woomba in the said State Widow.—
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to all
persons claiming to be next-of-kin of
the abovenamed JOHANNA MOLE who
died on the seventh day of June 1959
at Toowoomba aforesaid or any person
or persons claiming by through or under
her or them by derivative title or other-
wise that they are required to forward
proof of their relationship to THE
PUBLIC CURATOR OF QUEENSLAND
Brisbane in the said State on or before
the thirtieth day of April 1960 and
after the expiration of the abovemen-
tioned date the Public Curator of
Queensland may proceed to distribute
the assets of the said deceased amongst
the persons entitled thereto having re-
gard only to the claims of which he
shall then have had notice. The said
JOHANNA MOLE was the widow of the
late Arthur Wilfred Mole who died in
France in 1918. Her parents were
JAMES HENRICKS and HANNAH nee
DONOVAN. —DATED at Brisbane this
Twentieth day of January, 1960. —ALAN
FORD, Public Curator, Brisbane.
could say that black moths
were intrinsically “better” than
w hite and more useful to the
evolutionary process. So, in
general, it may be claimed that
so far as natural selection
operates, it operates upon
differences 'already existent be-
cause of factors which still
remain unknown.
In any case, throughout
geological time, in spite of
natural selection and fortuitous
variation, the fundamental
anatomical “plans” exhibited
by the great orders of biology
have persisted unchanged.
Even such a queer fish as the
ccelocanth, long thought ex-
tinct, is the same as he was
millions of years ago, though
he is deemed “intermediate” by
good evolutionists. “Intermedi-
ate” between what and what?
may well be asked.
It would seem, to revert to
Darwin, that his chief book —
judging by whaf happened in
its centenary year—has no
longer the unique importance
long assigned to it. Funda-
mentally it advances a hypo-
thesis upon which towers of
fragile hypotheses have been
unjustifiably erected. If any-
one is disinclined to take a
literary man’s word for it,
well, then, there are Dr.
Himmelfarb’s massive contri-
bution in support, Darwin’s
book itself and, above all, the
short introduction to it in the
latest Everyman edition. (This
was written by W. R. Thomp-
son, F.R.S., of the Ottawa
Commonwealth Institute of
Biological Control.)
Quite a few contemporary
presuppositions are in these
matters long overdue for a
shaking-up, not to say destruc-
tion.— Martin Haley (Q.).
Donald McLeod
Donald McLeod’s untiring
efforts for the advancement of
Western Australian aborigines
—who are now, as reported by
.‘Western Ped” (B. 6/1/ ’6O),
independent and capable
enough to conduct their own
considerable mining-deals—in-
cluded even going to jail for
them. [See Red Page, this issue.]
In 1946, when 300 aboriginal
station-hands in the Marble
° ar area went on strike for
better pay and conditions than
they were then getting (10s. or
t-s. a week, with tobacco, food
and clothing), the men held
tfjost responsible were Donald
McLeod, the half-caste Clancy
McKenna and the fullblood
Bun-Bun Dooley. Ironically
enough, they were convicted by
a reading of Sections 9 and
47 of the Native Administration
Act —sections aimed, as were
their strike-efforts, at preventing
exploitation of the aborigines.
Their appeals were dismissed
and they served prison-sen-
tences.
Late in 1949 McLeod and 25
aborigines went prospecting
for minerals in the Marble
Bar region. The venture
attracted others, and by May,
1952, there were 663 pros-
pectors, on whose account Mc-
Leod had, at the end of 1951,
“He just had a pick-me-up."
registered the co-operative
Northern Development and
Mining Co. Pty., Ltd. .
The consequent shortage of
station-labor, as well as Mc-
Leod’s share in the 1946 strike,
no doubt influenced the
Western Australian Govern-
ment in setting-up a committee-
of-inquiry in May, 1952, to in-
vestigate his prospecting
activities.
All shares in the co-operative
company were held in trust for
the aborigines. Five per cent,
of profits were to provide a
dividend on paid-up capital,
50 per cent, a reserve for
development, and the re-
mainder was devoted to better-
ment of the aborigines. At
the time the company’s earn-
ings provided only subsistence,
but McLeod was negotiating
with an Adelaide company
which, being interested in the
wolfram-ore discovered, would
allot the co-operative a per-
centage of profits in return
for local labor supplied.
The committee could find no
fault with this; it merely
recommended that the Govern-
ment appoint an officer to safe-
guard the interests of the
aborigines. Its report, indeed,
foreshadowed the present de-
velopment of aboriginal inde-
pendence and initiative:
The Marble Bar group has pro-
vided new evidence of the in-
herent ability of the natives and
of their capacity to undertake new
avenues of endeavor a demon-
stration of their adaptability. The
fact that the group has been able
to maintain itself as an organised
entity for so long a period, under
conditions where a good deal of
the administration and direction as
well as the performance of the
work has been in the hands of
the natives themselves, is a some-
what striking indication of their
ability to sustain community life
with a not inconsiderable degree
of industry, self-discipline and
order.
In some ways the experience of
the group may give the natives a
new confidence in their capacity
to fit themselves into the economic
and industrial pattern of their
country, and a new assurance as
to their ability to maintain com-
munity activities. All this could
be of benefit to our native popu-
lation, and every effort should be
made to ensure that the natives
will profit by an experience which
may contribute to their character,
their skill and their future oppor-
tunities.
As it evidently has done, —
Mary L. Lane (Vie.)
Railway Freight-rates
The city fruit-agent omitted
to pay the usual 2s. 1 Id. freight
on a case of apples consigned
to me, and the local railway
goods-office demanded 7s. 3d.
before delivering the fruit.
Asked “how come,” the
booking-clerk, after consulting
the appropriate Hoyle, ex-
plained that rates varied de-
pending upon whether the fruit
was consigned direct from the
grower or not, and upon
whether the charges had been
paid in advance or not. To
close the discussion he invited
me to peruse a document
which, in part, read:
The Commissioner for Railways
hereby gives notice that he has
two rates for the conveyance ot
goods classified under Manure,
Coal, Miscellaneous, A, B, and C
Classes and Agricultural Produce
of all kinds, and all goods carried
at rates less than Class 1, namely
—the Owner's Risk Rate, at which
the Commissioner takes no liability
or responsibility for any loss,
detention, damage, injury, mis-
deliverance or delay whatsoever
and howsoever occasioned: and
the Commissioner’s Risk Rate,
which is—for empty returns 20
per cent., perishable traffic and
agricultural implements and parts
(unprotected) 10 per cent., and for
all other traffic 5 per cent, over
and above the said Owner’s Risk
Rate, at which the Commissioner,
subject to the Government Rail-
ways Act, 1912, as amended, and
the provisions of the By-laws,
Regulations and Conditions pub-
lished thereunder, takes the
ordinary risk and liability of a
common carrier.
I went quiet, and now have
the fruit delivered by carrier
direct from the city markets to
the door for six-bob, saving
rail-freight and two lots of
carriers’ charges to Central
Station and from the local
goods-office to home. —J. S.
(N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
COTTON
Front “AGRICOLA”
Tn central Queensland this
year a near-record acreage
is under cotton.
Reason for the sudden popu-
larity is the guaranteed price,
giving growers a satisfactory
return for their labor. A bale
of cotton today is worth
roughly £3O ; 20 years ago you
were lucky to get £9 a bale,
and had to pay all expenses
out of that.
Cotton is not a cheap crop
to grow. Hand-picking—still
superior to mechanical harvest-
ing as far as quality is con-
cerned —is expensive. Most
growers have to .pay £2 a
hundred for hand - picked
cotton, with some offering as
much as £3 to get the crop
off quickly.
Control of the numerous
grubs and parasites which in-
vade the fields also eats into the
cheque. Unless controlled,
grubs can reduce the yield to
the acre by as much as 5001 b.
to 10001 b. of cotton which
Trials conducted over
two consecutive years
at Canterbury Agricul-
tural College, New
Zealand, have indi-
cated that it is more
profitable to flush ewes
on grass than it is on
lucerne. The 1957
trial showed that ewes
flushed on lucerne pro-
duced 10 per cent, fewer
twins and 15 per cent,
more barren ewes than
those flushed on grass.
Australian growers
have proved that lamb
mortality can be kept
to a minimum by the
use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings. The
Elastrator method is
the bloodless, humane
method of castration
and tailing that con-
siderably lessens the
risk of fly strike.
almost represents the profits
from the average crop.
This brings up the point of
increasing returns and cutting
costs, and the cottongrower
could learn a lot from the
wheatman. On the Darling
Downs, Queensland's main
wheatbelt, farmers have learnt
the wisdom of fallowing and
thoroughly preparing the land:
“We've converted into home-units."
on the cottonfields land-culti-
vation is less intensive. Result
is an annual crop of weeds
demanding constant cultiva-
tion with tined implements and
cultivation with a hand-hoe
between the bushes.
Weeds and grass between
the bushes and rows make
hand-picking most unpleasant ;
they are fatal to mechanical
harvesting because the rubbish
is sucked-up by the machine.
Apart from grub-control,
which cannot be circumvented,
the best way to reduce costs
and possibly increase yields to
the acre is to cultivate the soil.
Instead of planting the same
area each year, better results
may be obtained by planting
half and fallowing the other
half. Next year the fallowed
land can be sown to cotton
and the cropped area put under
fallow.
Fallowing the ground does
not mean letting it become
smothered with a dense growth
of grass, weeds and burr. The
wheatman learnt the hard way
that “one year’s seed is
seven years’ weed.” Fallowed
ground should first be turned-
over, then lightly cultivated
after each rain with a combine
or similar implement. This
controls weed-growth, de-
stroys pupae of the various
grubs and conserves moisture.
During the recent drought on
the Downs record wheat-yields
Were harvested from paddocks
that had received no more
than 2in. or 3in. of rain—the
ground held enough moisture
from previous falls, locked
there in a long fallow.
There is strong reason for
believing that cotton-yields
would also be increased if the
land were fallowed and
thoroughly worked. It costs
money, but controlling weeds
in the crop itself is also ex-
pensive, and labor for the
job isn’t always available.
Even if yields were not
increased efficient weed-control
would more than pay for the
extra work on the fallowed
paddock.
Experiments have shown that
three or four years is the
longest any ground can be
cropped with cotton if payable
yields are to be harvested. This
need be no handicap to mixed
farmers, who grow most of the
cotton in central Queensland.
Old cotton-land makes an
excellent seedbed for mixed
pastures such as lucerne,
Rhodes-grass and green-panic ;
and these pastures, when ripped-
up, grow the best cotton. So
rotation certainly provides the
answer.
Cotton is now being grown
south of its traditional home.
Areas have been planted on
the Darling Downs as far south
as Warwick. Some hold that
the deep black soil on the
Downs is too rich for cotton,
but, actually, that soil win
grow ideal cotton. In a normal
season, it's late and early frosts
that beat the crop. Cotton
which is planted and conies?
away in mid-October
generally ready for picking late
in February or early March,
In Central Queensland frosts
do not appear until June, or
even late July. This means a
growing-period long enough to-
allow three separate pickings,
and if profits are to be
enough to encourage further
plantings three harvests are
essential, otherwise you just!
cover expenses.
On the Darling Downs a
frost in April is commonplace
and plantings could be de-
layed until late November if
the winter is very long. This
restricts the number of harvests.
So the problem here is not that
the soil is too rich, but just
geography. The further north
you go from the Downs the
longer becomes the frost-free
period. However, cotton is
proving profitable as a rota-
tion on the northern Darling
Downs, frosts being less severe
there than further south.
Cotton, it should be
works in well with dairyfarnU
ing and cattle-raising, because
old paddocks can be turned
back to pasture and tired and
worn-out pastures make ideal’
cottonland when ripped-up.
* Lot-feeding
“Acacia”-: Cheaper grains
and the milling of all kinds of
roughage have made it profit-
able to fatten cattle in “feed- 1
lots,” and several commercial
projects have been set-up on
Queensland’s Darling Downs.
At first it’s often difficult to
get cattle to take to the food,
and each fresh group has to
become accustomed to the diet 1 ,
Feed • the animals medium-
quality, sweet lucerne-hay for
a few days—a small ration at
first, gradually increased. Then,
start with a little of the
standard ration, placed in the
bottom of the trough and
covered with some hay.
Decrease the quantity of hay
and increase the ration propor-
tionally, and in about a fort-
night the full ration may be-
fed.
As far as possible composi-
tion of the ration should nevei
vary, but if it has to be variey
the change should be gradual to
avoid digestive upsets, wit!
consequent loss of appetite ant
weight. Keep a close watcl
for signs of digestive trouble
Avoid feeding mouldy food
see that no damaging rubbish


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to —
NAME ..
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: ’Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z/):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin" or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
gets into it and clean all rejected
ration from, the troughs daily.
All grain must always be
coarsely ground or crushed;
whole grain is passed through
the animal without being
digested. All hay must be
coarsely chaffed and the ration
thoroughly mixed before feed-
ing. A hammermill is invalu-
able, because all kinds of
roughage and grain, including
straw and gradings from grain-
crops, may be fed into the
machine together and, if put
through in the correct propor-
tions, need no further mixing.
Salt is an essential in “lot-
feeding,” and coarse salt to
each 1001 b. dry-feed should be
given, or salt-blocks may be
placed in the troughs.
Thirty Years Back
“Emel”: In 1929, when, at
an average of a pound,
Australia’s wool - clip of
2,700,000 bales realised only
£4O million, ewes were selling
atNatimuk (Vic.) for 2|d. each.
Wheat, however, brought
comparatively high returns
then. The price for seed-wheat
around Natimuk was 3s. ljd.
a bushel.
No Conservationist
“Wimra”: Tom Brown, of
Bangerang (Vic.), gets along
well without the fodder-con-
servation upon which his more
orthodox neighbors expend so
much time, labor and money.
Why carry the fire-risk of great
heaps (or stacks) of hay, he
asks, when they may never be
needed in 10 years?
He may, at no trouble or
cost, save some of the surplus
spring pasture-growth by shut-
ting several paddocks, perhaps
as much as 300 acres, to have
a standby in a dry autumn and
to provide mulch to keep the
soil moist.
His one concession to con-
yentional fodder-conservation
is to hold 100 bags of oats in
his barn, but even these have
been needed in only two of the
last 10 years. If his Wimmera
rye-grass, with some trefoil,
should prove insufficient for his
700 Corriedales he will reduce
his flock-numbers. But, with
an annual wool-clip of from
121 b. to 161 b. a head, that
necessity has not yet arisen.
. On land too dry for super.-
topdressing he maintains soil-
fertility by a five- or six-year
wheat-pasture rotation, the
Pasture being at its best from
the second to the fourth year.
Another of his heresies is
to allow no cattle on his farm,
because cattle, he says, spoil
the water-supply for sheep by
fouling the edges of dams.
He cuts work down in every
possible way, notably by liberal
use of concreting and lawns to
eliminate mud and dust round
all farm-buildings and his
sheep-dip.
Inhuman Human Pests
“Barwon”: Pests which have’
appeared during the past few
years to harass the man on
the land in the Hill End
(N.S.W.) district include swarms
of city shooters lured there
by extravagant published
accounts of unlimited wild goats
and kangaroos.
Most of these intruders don’t
bother about asking permission
to enter grazing-properties.
The first inkling the owner has
of their presence is often the
sound of heavy-bore rifles in
his more remote paddocks. If
he is wise he’ll stay round the
homestead until they depart,
because most of them have very
elementary ideas of safety pre-
cautions or the lethal range of
the .303 and blaze away in-
discriminately at anything that
moves.
It is not always practicable
to patrol miles of fence in order
to catch marauders emerging
from the paddocks, and this is
necessary in order to ensure a
conviction for trespass.
One local grazier, who
allowed some such shooters
to camp on his property, has
now issued a blanket-prohi-
bition on all “sportsmen.” A
valuable bull was shot and
crippled and the guests heralded
their departure by shooting
holes in the corrugated-iron
of the roof of the hut which he
made available to them as a
camp. Apparently these tup-
penny Allan Quatermains sat
in the hut and let fly skywards,
just for the hell of it.
Roadside boxes for mail,
bread and other domestic
supplies are particularly tempt-
ing targets for these hoodlums,
who pepper them as they drive
past. No one seems to think
that the weather could play
havoc with important mail or
destroy the week’s bread-
supply, or a valuable machine-
part left by the carrier.
One grazier pursued and
caught a car from which shots
had holed his box. There were
abject apologies, and the tear-
ful intervention of the mother
saved the lout responsible from
a severe manhandling, quite
justifiable in the circumstances.
Road-signs have been partly
obliterated and bottles smashed
by rifle-fire, and the broken
bottles left where they could
cripple valuable stock.
Protected birds have been
destroyed, possums wantonly
shot, and the open-season for
restricted classes taken as co-
inciding with the holiday dates
of shooters whose motto
apparently is: “It’s a nice day ;
let’s go out and kill some-
thing.” It doesn’t matter if it is
a sheep, if nothing else shows-
up. One roadside camper I saw
recently had a small kangaroo-
joey tethered like a dog to the
bottom strand of a fence. He
had evidently shot its mother
and kept the unfortunate baby
until it starved to death. It
disappeared before I could
take appropriate steps with the
police.
Bushfires, like the disastrous
ones of Christmas, 1957, are a
constant hazard to thousands of
acres of grassland and scrub,
some of it in extremely inac-
cessible gorges and gullies.
Shooters, even if they set-up
camp on Crown land, are a
constant source of worry to
adjoining landowners because
of their carelessness with camp-
fires. It’s miles from any-
where, so, in their opinion, it
doesn’t matter. Locals believe
that at least one large fire which
swept through a grazing-
property within the last three
years was the responsibility of
shooter-campers in the area,
who didn’t wait to lend a hand,
but packed their gear and left
the district —hurriedly.
No blame is attachable to the
local police. With hundreds
of square-miles to look after
and a multiplicity of office-
duties which keep him chained
to the desk, the local policeman
does his best. Indeed, if it
were not for him things could
be far worse.
Home Markets
“Naomi”: How does “Pieter*
Nuyts” propose cutting pro-
duction-costs in the poultry
industry, when the poultry-
farmer has already done so?
The price of eggs isn’t really
exorbitant; ss. 4d., the Perth
retail-price, is reasonable,
when you consider the cost of
wheat and wages.
I don’t think the permit-
system should be done away
with. After all, the permitecs
relieve the Egg Board of
thousands of eggs in the glut-
season and sell their customers
a new-laid egg, which is more
than the board can ever do.
They sell thousands of eggs un-
suitable for export, too.
Hens always keep better in
small numbers, where they are
less liable to disease, but many
backyarders are doing away
with their chooks now because
they find feed too dear to buy.
For the price they pay for feed
they can buy a poultry-
farmer’s chipped or double-
yolked eggs.
Nearly every farmer with a
permit candles his eggs in
order to keep his trade and give
his customers a fair deal. Any-
one can learn to candle eggs in
a few lessons —though not for


export. We have candled eggs
for years, cases and cases of
them—and a dull job it is, too
• —and have sometimes gone on
for weeks and never found
anything wrong. It’s impossible
to miss anything in an egg if
you have a good light in a
dark room. A bloodspot shows-
up like a red light, and a
broken air-cell can be easily
seen.
It’s possible, of course, to
mistake rich, red yolks for
blood-eggs, and brown-shelled
eggs are very hard to candle.
The Egg Board has'up-to-date
equipment capable of dealing
with a large number of eggs at
a time, and this makes it much
quicker and easier than hand-
candling ; but the trouble with
board eggs is that when they
come out of cool storage and
warm-up in shops they are apt
to go bad.
Any poultryfarmer can grade
eggs—though, once again, not
for export after he has
weighed a few. A farmer with
a permit naturally packs the
largest eggs for his cash-
customers and puts some
double-yokes on top. If he
has candled his eggs, it’s likely
to be a pretty good pack.
One of the drawbacks of
poultryfarming is the number
of thin-shelled or chipped eggs
you’ll get, whatever ration the
birds are on. The hardworking
little hen is bred and fed to
lay, but can’t put a good shell
on every egg, because she some-
times gets laying-exhaustion. In
very hot weather, too, it’s diffi-
cult to get eggs with an up-
standing yolk and a firm white.
Sod-seeding
“R.G.”: Trials held last
winter by the Queensland Dairy
Pasture Improvement Advisory
Committee of the Department
of Agriculture have shown that
winter yields from paspalum
pastures can be raised steeply
by sod-seeding oats or winter
legumes into the sward early in
autumn. The low cost of this
extra fodder puts the method
within reach of most farmers.
Paspalum is the main com-
ponent of dairy-pastures in
Queensland, with kikuyu,
green-panic, Rhodes-grass and
buffel-grass next. Figures from
Commonwealth Government
statistics show that there are
770,000 acres of paspalum in
the State —that is, 35 per cent,
of its two-million acres of sown
pastures. Being a summer-
growing plant, paspalum pro-
duces very little forage in the
winter. That was the reason for
these efforts to find some means
of increasing the winter use-
fulness of the mainstay of
coastal dairying.
Oats sod-seeded into a
paspalum sward at the end of
March and fertilised with
2621 b. sulphate-of-ammonia
gave three hay-cuts. Sown in
moist soil and watered by 250
points of follow-up rain, the
oats yielded the equivalent of
two tons of hay to the acre.
Cost of seeding 1601 b. of oats,
plus the fertiliser, came to £9
an acre, so the cost of the
oaten hay was £4 10s. a ton.
Another trial in the Coomera
district showed how oats sod-
seeded into a paspalum pasture
can provide winter grazing. A
block sown with 901 b. oats
an acre and fertilised with
2621 b. sulphate -of - ammonia
gave 583 cow-grazing-hours an
acre. At the rate of 661 b. oats
and 1571 b. sulphate -of -
ammonia, 514 cow-grazing-
hours were recorded. Milk-
production from the sod-seeded
oats compared favorably with
yields when the same herd was
grazing on lucerne.
Dun field-peas, purple-vetch
and golden-tares all made
promising growth when sod-
seeded into a paspalum pasture.
Sod-seeded sub.-clover, though,
made slow growth, and most
of the seedlings were shaded-
out by the paspalum.
Vetches and tares seem
promising for late-winter feed.
Cost of their establishment
with 3cwt. an acre of a super-
phosphate-dolomite fertiliser-
mixture w T as £5 10s. an acre.
At 21 weeks the top yield was
2.6 tons of oven-dry golden-
tares. This forage cost £2 Bs.
a ton of oven-dry material.
Bloat in Cattle
“Myall”: Research has
shown that spraying pastures
with a fatty solution before
cattle are turned in to graze
does much to control bloat or
hover. The spraying can be
done at a cost of 2d. a head a
day.
Pure beef- or mutton-tallow,
free from such impurities as
blood, hair and scraps, is
melted in hot water and
emulsified by using one part of
a detergent to every 10 of
tallow. Quantity of water is
determined by area to be
covered and type of pump used,
Bgals. of the mixture spraying
approximately 1 acre of
pasture. The rate for effective
control is 2oz. tallow a cow a
day, and two days’ spraying
may be done at the one time.
Strip-grazing seems essential
for effective use of the pasture-
spraying method.
It’s best to use an ordinary
boom-sprayer, with an over-
flow-return to the storage-drum
(as for weed - spraying).
Complete coverage is given by
a 10ft. boom of pipe, fitted
with 32mm. nozzles spaced
18in. apart, at a pressure of
201 b. to the square-inch. A
twin jet-spray, with the pump
driven from the power-take-off
of a tractor at a pressure of
501 b. to the square-inch, has
also been used successfully.
The pasture should f
sprayed in late afternoon tl
day before it is intended
graze, so that any
taste will disappear.
A sample mixture for <
animals on an acre of pastu;
would be as follows: ]M t
121 b. tallow at a temperature
120 deg. to 150 deg. F., ai
18oz. of detergent and m
Bgals. of water at 180 deg. I
200 deg. Allow the mixture t;
cool before using, so that tl
pasture will not be injured.
Bloat is highly heritable, s,
if you replace animals in tj
herd with stock from not
bloating animals, its incident;
will be greatly reduced.
Poll Herefords
“Hay”: Reviewing tl
activities of the breed in Enj
land, Douglas McDougall lately
said:
“The ranks of Poll Herefor
enthusiasts in England cor
tinue to swell. The expansio
in number of Poll Herefor
cattle themselves has not on!
arisen from the normal mult
plication of the foundatiou
animals of the two mai
strains —Coin Arthur on tl
one hand and the original Nej
Zealand shipment of Tot-
Excelsior with 5 heifers on tl
other. A steady stream of in
portations has taken place ovs
the past years, the full li
for the whole period being
Animals Totally'
N.Z.—4 shipments .. 24
U.S.A. —1 shipment .. 22
Australia —6 shipments 15
Canada 8 shipments 105 |
Grand Total 166
“The highest-priced bull
imported are Gay Hill
Victor 46th, purchased fro!
Mr. Jerry Gay, of Mississip,
for Mr. H. A. D. Cherry
Downes, of Newark, for 19,00
dollars, and Milton Sanak 9ti
purchased by Colonel Het
riques from Mr. Anthony
Hordern, of Bowral (N.S.W2
for 4300 guineas.”
Cultivation Methods
“R.H.G.”: James Mahone'
(B. 30/12/’59) is right j
advocating organic methods f
agriculture, and he’s in goc-
company, though unfortunate
advocates of these methods al
possibly more numerous olf tl
land than on it.
Another aspect that gets vei
little attention is the method i
cultivation. A good deal
talked about “hardpans”
so forth, but not enough ll
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(14/1/’60)
Queensland may have patchy rainfall during February,
although heavy rains are likely in the northern half of the
State, with flooding on the coast from Mackay northwards.
Moderate rains should fall in southern Queensland, being
light in part of the Maranoa and in the far-western and far-
south-western districts.
N.S.W. can also expect patchy rainfall during February,
varying from light to moderate, although there may be
heavier falls in the central-western districts and on the
South-west Slopes. Patchy rains should continue in March,
apart from heavy falls on the North Coast. Heavy rains
and serious flooding are likely in May.
Victoria should have moderate to good rains during
February, varying from light to moderate in the Mallee and
Wimmera. There should be light to moderate rains in March
and April, with good seasonal rains in May.
South Australia may have only light to moderate patchy
rains during February, although there may be heavy storm-
rains in the central districts. Rainfall looks like being poor
in March, with good seasonal rains in May.
Western Australia should have good rains during
February, although falls may be light in the Gascoyne
district and around Eucla. Reasonably good rains should
continue in March.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/,-
Vearly Subscription .. 22/6
P'tUffi ■ill
FMlure
Seven years ago I began to publish this column.
The years since then have brought great changes
to Australia and the world. Seven years—seventy
years—from now, the changes will be much more
visible still.
But the need for an active dedication to our
country’s cause will be as timeless then as it was
when the first article in this column appeared in
January, 1953. Quoting in part the actual words I
then used:
“Faith is a wonderful thing. It makes a
meaning of all that is in the world around us;
puts a value on the experience of living. It unites
men in trust of one another, gives them a goal. It
bridges the chasm between time and eternity.
“ ‘Faith can move mountains.’ How literally
true that is today, when mammoth machinery can
shear away mountains —if only men will have the
faith to move the machines.
“However, the purpose, of this brief excursion
into philosophy is to tell you why I give this column
the title it has.
“I have tremendous faith in Australia ... No
people in history have had a greater opportunity
than is ours. When empires were built in the past,
when colonial outposts grew to be nations, the
men who wrought the change had nothing to their
hand but puny, primitive tools. The axe, the
hammer, the plough.
“It is a different story now. Few countries in
the world lie largely undeveloped. Australia is
one of them, perhaps the only one of comparable
richness. And in our hands are instruments of
power and mechanisation that our pioneer parents
would have thought fantastically impossible.
“Are we in our favoured time to do less than
they? That, I am sure, is the sentiment of all
Australians ... We cherish the thought of
prouder things. But the rise of this country will
depend on what each one of us gives to it in work
and service.
“You see what I mean by Faith in the Future.”
done. I have often seen
liberal-minded farmers speed
back to their old holdings after
laying-down the law about
ploughs, and immediately start
mins the implement in the
traditional way.
Walking behind a disk-
plough and watching closely
what happens, you’ll see that
the disks seldom penetrate
more than 4in., depending on
type of soil and time of year.
The soil is simply shifted over
to the right by just the distance
left between the unploughed
earth and that left by the end
set of disks. You have only to
plough contour-banks by
several runs along the same
track to appreciate this.
It follows, then, that if you
ignore the turning-over action,
which is complete with disks,
the 4in. or sin. of soil has been
cut off from its roots, so to
speak, and the farmer has
automatically reduced his
workable soil to this depth. He
pulverises this to prepare the
classic seedbed, and then leaves
it to reform what must, in
commonsense, be its natural
association with its subsoil. A
crop is grown, and perhaps the
very next year it is again
disked over, and the same depth
again cut away and shifted
six or seven inches.
Speaking as a man develop-
ing a block of land, and also as
an engineer without any farm-
ing inhibitions, I find this
doesn't make sense. I began
farming in 1929 and have been
in the bush all my life, though
not as a farmer (anyone remem-
bering what happened in 1929-
BO won't be surprised), and I
can claim to be as close to the
soil as most men. It is now a
matter of extreme personal
interest to me to get the best
out of the land with limited
capital.
After observing all kinds of
cultivating-implements at work
I chose a chisel-plough as
being the only tool which
seemed to me capable of pre-
paring the earth in the proper
manner. I am not concerned
with preparing immaculate
seedbeds, nor do I think these
are necessary, anyway, except
perhaps in gardens where they
can be suitably nursed.
I have thought about this
matter a great deal, and I
believe that, as far as Western
Australia is concerned, we
just haven’t used the
mouldboard - plough long
enough to get belted over the
head with its inevitable end-
product—the Kansas dustbowl.
Where we use that plough our
soils are evidently far better
than they had in Kansas, and
can stand up to it longer. Its
main advantage is its ability to
keep weeds down, and even
control such pests as Cape-
tulip.
I should stress here that I
talk with certain knowledge
of my part of the world only
(Great Southern district of
W.A.), where this plough gives
cereal crops a tremendous head-
start, though it must create a
plough “sole” or hardpan—it
simply can’t help doing so —
which is turned over and over,
until it becomes completely
divorced from its own subsoil.
The life within this auto-
matically controlled depth of
soil can be tenacious enough
to supply the cropping-heads
of generation after generation,
and this is what is happening
in W.A., where, I believe,
fertility has just about run its
course in many places. The
soil is becoming worn-out and
jaded after repeated shots-in-
the-arm of artificial fertilisers,
and is starting to slip-away and
need “conservation’’-banks and
other unsightly (and unneces-
sary) measures to keep it in
place.
I think we are about to face
the reckoning, and that the
theory of mouldboard-plough
cultivation simply won’t stand
analysis from any viewpoint
of soil-engineering, because it
is a self-destructive operation,
no matter how long it may
take to bring about final
collapse.
This playing-around with the
top few inches has bred the
last-ditch mentality of soil-
“conservationists,” who walk
round anxiously surveying what
remains of this pulverised top-
soil, while under their feet
there’s enough soil to bury them
standing-up, though it’s now
cut off from useful communi-
cation with them.
My own aim will be to keep
the relative position of the
soil unchanged, not to turn
it over, or to shift it sideways,
but to work down and down,
until I have enough good top-
soil working for me to enable
me to laugh at any idea of
erosion. Long before then I
feel certain I will be able to
do away with super.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy the following books: The
Air VCs., Fighting Planes and
Aces, The Raid, Some Milestones
of Aviation, The Spy Flyers and
Wings, a Book of Flying. Also,
Fighting the Red Shadow, German
War Birds and Richtofen, the Red
Knight of the Air, all by “Vigi-
lant.” I would also like The High
Speed and Other Flights and The
Pictorial Flying Course, both by
Schofield and Johns. —6926.
The Orchids of N.S.W., by Rev,
Rupp.—6927.
Copy of After Many Years, by
Cuthbert Fetherstonhaugh.—692B.
Full biographical details of Gal-
lipoli poet R. J. Godfrey, and a
copy of his poem “The Silence,”
—6929.
Copy of Australian Bush-Babs,
by D. H. Souter.—693o.
Information Sought
Method of preserving whitebait?
Deal with the whitebait as quickly
as possible after it is taken from
the water. Clean in lightly salted
water, remove any objectionable
fish, shrimps,- etc., which may be
caught in it, and drain in a colander.
Pack into- glass preserving-jars and
add as much lightly salted water
as possible. Place new rubbers in
position and set on the lids, but
don’t screw-down. Put the jars in
a large pan of cold water packed
round and underneath with straw
or paper so that they do not knock
and crack; put over a good fire
and cook till contents of the jars
show small bubbles rising from the
bottoms to the tops. Keep at this
temperature (212 deg. F.) for seven
minutes. Take out the jars and
screw-down the lids tightly. As each
one is done, stand it upside-down
for a few hours to test for leakages;
then store in a dark, cool place.
If the jars leak, the processing must
be done again. The contents must
be thoroughly air-sealed at boiling-
point, otherwise the food won’t
keep.
* * * *
How to destroy book-worms ?
Put a saucer of benzine in the
bookcase, keeping the doors closed.
If eggs and larvae are found, kill
the five ones, isolate the infected
volumes and spray them with a
solution of carbon-tetrachloride, a
colorless liquid which does not
stain. Place the books upright,
and, taking care not to wet the
pages too much, try to reach the
back edges with the spray. In
using other insecticides be sure
they have been tested against dis-
coloration of paper.
* * * *
Brief biographical details of
humorist James Thurber ?
Born on December 8, 1894, at
Columbus, Ohio; he was educated
at Ohio University. Rejected for
service in World War I because
he was blind in one eye from a
childhood accident, he worked as
a code-clerk. Later he became a
journalist and artist and was on
the Paris staff of the Chicago
“Tribune” till 1926. He then re-
turned to America and joined the
staff of the “New Yorker,” on
which he became an important
influence. In his first book, Is Sex
Necessary ? (1929), he collaborated
with E. B. White. His numerous
other works are illustrated with his
own drawings; My Life and Hard
Times (1933) is autobiographical.
His work has been described as a
mixture of absurdity, inconsequence
and irony.
♦ * * *
Who discovered the Grampians,
in Victoria ?
The Grampians, a picturesque
range of mountains near the ter-
mination of the Great Dividing
“It didn't go off. Who goes out and gives it
a bit of a nudge ”
Range in western Victoria, was first
explored by T. L. Mitchell in July,
1836. Mitchell named the range
after the mountains of the same
name in Scotland. The Grampians
are composed mainly of hard sand-
stone which has weathered into
fantastic shapes and deep gorges.
Some granite is interspersed, but
the sandstone predominates. Excel-
lent building-stone is obtained: the
Victorian Houses of Parliament are
built of Grampians freestone that
has weathered to a soft grey color.
The range covers an area of about
400 sq.-miles. The highest peak,
Mt. William (3289 ft.), was named
by Mitchell after the reigning
sovereign.
Brief Answers
R.S. and L.A.S.: The larger
stamp-shops display their stamps
under glass or in small Cellophane
packages. Small Cellophane
envelopes can usually be bought
from wholesale paper-firms
R.C.: The three Westralian stamps
are catalogued by Stanley Gibbons
at about 4s 1.C.W.: Stamps
practically valueless. As for the
coins, the Australian 55.-piece is
worth about ss. 9d.; the 2s. Can-
berra piece about 2s. 6d. The value
of the rest of the coins would
amount to 10s. or so S.J.A.:
The stamps come from Ifni, a
Spanish colony in Africa, and from
Rumania... .G.M.: There is a
book entitled Dxdalus; or, Science
and the Future, by John Burdon
Sanderson Haldane, published in
London by Kegan Paul, 1924.
There is also a book entitled
Dcedalus, by J. Langton Fielding,
which was published by Blackwell
in 1930. This work was the Newdi-
gate Prize Poem, 1930....Mi5s B.:
The poem is by Matthew Prior. The
book may be Poems on Several
Occasions by Matthew Prior, pub-
lished in two volumes in London
by J. Tonson and J. Barber in 1725.
You could probably find informa-
tion on this poet in the Newcastle
City Library... .M.8.K.: Sorry the
book is out of print. But a “Want”
advertisement might well produce
results... .H.R.: Run separator at
speed directed by maker to get maxi-
mum skimming efficiency. The fat
loss in skim-milk is increased in pro-
portion to the decrease in number
of proper normal revolutions. Turn-
ing at too high a speed gives a
richer-testing cream, but you will
gradually injure the mechanism ot
the separator... .T.N.: The distinc-
tion is as follows: deacons are
made, priests are ordered and
bishops are consecrated P.R.F.:
The question was answered in B.
6/1/’60... .J.A.R.: The word
“wandalga” js not listed in three
dictionaries of aboriginal words and
their meanings. Sydney J. Enda-
cott’s book' comes closest with
“wanda” (beach sandhills) and
“wandarra” (good); McCarthy has
“wandella” (an initiated youth) and
H. M. Cooper, in his Australian
Aboriginal Words, repeats Enda-
cott’s “wanda” F.N.R.: You’ll
find that well-rotted fowl-manure is
excellent for rockmelons. The land
should be deeply ploughed in early
winter and harrowed and lightly
ploughed before planting. Con-
tinuous cultivation should be pracA
tised as long as the growth of the
vines will allow it. The fruit has
to be picked for market just before
it is ripe—i.e., when the stem shows
the first tendency to pull away
from the melon... .S.W.: The
article appeared in B. 14/10/’59.
Copy will be sent on receipt of
Is. 5d P.N.: Paragraphs are
always welcome, and all paragraphs
printed are paid for... .W.8.R.;
The appointment of General
MacArthur as Commander-in-Chief
South-west Pacific Area was made
by Churchill and Roosevelt after j
a Joint Chiefs of Staff meeting in
Washington and after consultation I
with John Curtin. MacArthur was
never in command in South-east
Asia... .J.R.: Put 51b. clean tat
and lib. resin in a kerosene-tin,
Add 5 quarts water, bring to the
boil and add slowly in small
amounts 2 quarts of water in which
has been dissolved overnight lib.
caustic-soda. Boil all slowly for
30min., lift off stove and leave till
next day, when the block will slip
out and may be cut into bars.... 1
H. 8.: Wills are required, notwith- j-
standing the existing arrangements
L.D.: “Turnip” is a slang term
for an old-fashioned, cheap silver
watch E.T.: The term “beach-
sand minerals” usually refers to L
zircon, rutile and ilmenite, which j
occur as beach-deposits together j
with small quantities of monazite, J
garnet and other minerals of high i
specific-gravity, including in some 1
places cassiterite or tin-oxide and j
even gold and platinum. Zircon is 1
the silicate of the rare metal zir-
conium, rutile is titanium-dioxide
and ilmenite is a mixed oxide of ‘
iron and titanium.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on r f
all MSS. No liability is under- .
taken re contributions voluntarily j
submitted; and no MS. will be J<
returned unless stamps accom- it
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the P
understanding that they may be -t
shortened or altered as the Editor p
thinks necessary. s
T.E.: Nothing new in it.... 1
H.F.: They all stumbled 0ut....)
D.P.: It would possibly make a|r
good sketch if you could reduce it [ (
to essentials... .L.K.: Try to loosen
the dialogue. At present it’s too ,
cumbersome and jarring T.T.: f
The seagulls have gone south— r
C.L.: So has the lisping gunman it
. ...S.E.: It stunned the Religious y
Editor. He forgot to say a benedic- 1(
tion after morning-tea... .A.P-J- : r;
A brave little poem, slightly shaky
towards the end. Watch the»
rhymes: you tend to make them .
too plonking... .W.M.: The people.,
on Mars might be interested
K.R.: You convey the atmosphere
of a cricket-match, but it’s all
been said before... .1.G.: “This is?
my first attempt at serious verse. iV
Thank- you; jt was read seriously, 1 r
t 00... .D.W.: You seem to
been observing mermaids for some
time. Nice to know that “they
frolic swirly-tailed on the oceans |{
dark floor” N.H.: Condense i ) (
A.T.; One or two fresh lines (
there. L


THE HOLLIDAYS.
“This is indeed my lucky night—theoretically I've Won seven-million francs!"
New Recordings
OPERA IN THE STEREO AGE
The record-collector who hap-
pened to be primarily an
opera-lover has had, more than
any other record-buyer, his
housing problem” solved by
the advent of long-playing
recordings—up till 1952 a com-
plete “Aida” on 19 standard
tecords was a formidable shelf-
item.
Largely arising out of ex-
periments to make records
tansportable for the American
Forces, the first 1.-p.s were
ssued in 1951-52, and even
hen several of the major com-
panies, sceptical of the radical
nnovation, were not prepared
to jettison the time-honored
ipeeds from Caruso’s day xo
jhrs. But the changeover wasi
nevitable. After years of
sterling catalogue service the
>ld sets, under the impact of
; ompetition and technical ad-
'ance, have been put out to
|taze on cheaper labels —one,
jor example, being “Ace of
clubs.”
i, Competition between the
companies has been all to the
ipOod. During the ’thirties there
one “standard” set of
; ■ rosea” available for years.
■Now it is possible to hear at
fst five complete sets before
Peciding which ill-starred
proine to take home. And
frth Strauss’s “Der Rosen-
pvalier” one can choose be-
tween three momentous record-
ings.
L.-p. brought us, so we
thought, the illusion of the
opera-house—no longer the
four - minute dissections of
love-duets ; instead, orchestras
and choruses spaciously re-
corded. Then came stereo. Mis-
trusted at the outset by col-
lectors as perhaps “just another
gimmick,” it is in opera that
stereo is really consolidating
itself.
At a stereo recording-session
the stage is marked-out like a
large, irregular chessboard,
fanning out from the two micro-
phones with numbered squares
on the floor, not unlike a child’s
game of hopscotch. “Addio,
senza rancore,” sings Tebaldi,
quitting her Rodolpho. “Move
from square 8 to 22,” she
thinks, tiptoeing under the
engineer’s direction. In record-
ing “Das Rheingold” in Vienna
recently the Rhinemaidens,
swimming off to their watery
seats, had to wear heavy Army
Disposal socks to deceive the
two ultra-sensitive micro-
phones.
The result, socks or not,
is spectacular operatic record-
ing. All the illusion of theatre
is caught, but none of the dis-
tractions common to record-
ings of “actual” performances
(as at Bayreuth) with noises
of set-changing and fuzziness
as characters move out of
microphone-range. With
stereo the stage fits precisely
between the two speakers of
the stereo-set. Just as the 21in.
frame of the TV-set seems ade-
quate to encompass nightly the
stretches of dusty Arizona
country, so the performance
of opera “seems” to occur
within the dimensions of the
room.
The Callas “Turandot,”
already magnificent in sound
under Serafin, must be breath-
taking in stereo; similarly the
Rome Opera “Simone Bocca-
negra,” with its great ensemble.
Only in the living form of
stereo can one hope to recreate
in the mind the silver glories
of Marie Therese’s court in
Vienna, with its anteroom
crammed to overflowing with
bird-sellers*, monkey-vendors,
aspiring singers, petitioning
orphans ; and rising above the
fracas the thunder of Baron
Och’s haggling over his
marriage-settlement.
Many of the major com-
panies have recorded their
operas in monaural form over
the past four or five years and
have salted them down, only
to re-release them in the
splendor of stereo. It is up to
the other companies to follow
suit here. This done, we may
say once again, as they said
on the paper covers of the
1912 Carusos, “the singer is
actually present in your own
room.” How the little dog that
Edison rejected, only to bfecome
a listener to “His Master’s
Voice,” would have laughed!
V. V.
Rise and Shine
Scene: An Army camp on
the Atherton Tableland any
morning in the winter of 1944.
Time: 5.59 a.m. Row upon
row of tents filled with sleep-
ing soldiers. A sinister figure,
well rugged-up in overcoat —
it’s cold on the Tableland in
winter —enters the headquarters
tent and snaps a switch. Lights
come on throughout the lines
and loudspeakers on the
public-address system spring
to life, declaiming with
frightening (and deafening)
unanimity, “O, the sound of
the Kerry dancers . . .**
The sergeant-major respon-
sible for this morning ritual
was no music-lover; it was
just that he felt that amplified
gramophone-music would be a
more effective waker-upper
than a bugler playing
“Reveille.”
One of his victims was
reminded of all this the other
day when he picked up a
Coronet 45 (KS-358) and
read the label: “The Kerry
Dancers” (Mitch Miller, Jimmy
Carroll and co.).
Gritting his teeth, • he put
the disk on his record-player
and stood clear. To his sur-
prise, it didn’t arouse the old
hatred he had anticipated.
Mitch, Jimmy and co. have
taken the Irish jig away from
the dancers and dressed it up
in march-time, giving a
pleasant, restrained version
calculated to keep the bhoys
and colleens of County Kerry
on their best behavior. Very
nice, too.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The theatre-year for i 1960 has now
started its run. The Theatre Royal’s first
night of “Two for the See-saw” was
packed, nearly all the regular first-
nighters being there, the Selby-Davidsons,
the Don Services, the Tom Batemans,
together with a fair sprinkling of visitors.
Had an interesting discussion with actress
Ethel Gabriel, who commended the pro-
ducers of the film “Summer of the 17th
Doll” for introducing the spacious
Sydney scene to world-audiences. Also
met an aspirant young English actor,
Keith Lee, just out from London to try
his fortune here. He was with Vera
Allen and Betty Chapman, of Bellevue
Hill.
Next on the agenda is the world-
premiere of the ballet “Journey to the
Moon,” which choreographer Paul
Grinwis has set to the music of Doni-
zetti, and which opens at the Empire
on Friday next, January 29. It is a
romantic ballet, says Grinwis, but there
is a good deal of comedy and charac-
terisation in it. This will be the seventh
Grinwis ballet the Borovansky company
has produced.
Then comes “The Rape of the Belt,”
at the Elizabethan on February 10, a
comedy by Benn Levy, and the first of
the Elizabethan’s offerings for the year.
Later will come “Moby Dick,” then
“Murder in the Cathedral” (with London
actor Robert Speaight) and “The
Hostage,” by Brendan Behan. The
A.B.C.’s director of drama, Neil Hutchi-
son, takes over the Elizabethan direc-
tion this year, but Hugh Hunt will pro-
duce “Murder in the Cathedral.”
☆ ☆ ☆
It is nice to see that a woman has
won the Sulman art-prize. At 24, Susan
Wright, of Middle Cove, is the youngest
person ever to win it. Jean Bellette has
won it twice (1942 and 1944), and Elaine
Haxton in 1943. The only woman ever
to win the Archibald was Nora Heysen,
in 1938.
There are several striking paintings
by women in this year’s exhibition. Dora
Toovey’s self-portrait, Judy Cassab’s
painting of Miss Elizabeth Skillen, Phyl
Waterhouse’s self-portrait, Mary Brady’s
“Mrs. Frank Brady” and Shirley
Bourne’s “Ronald Wakelin” are all com-
pelling.
☆ ☆ ☆
It’s warm weather to be thinking of
winter woollies, but Patons and Baldwins’
preview has certainly turned the mind
lightly to thoughts of knitting and set
the fingers itching for the needles.
Three things are striking about the
styles. They are bulky; they have big
collars, often turning down from an
open neckline; and they have raglan-
sleeves. The classic twin-set, of course, is
still with us, but it’s the easy, relaxed
line that is news.
Mohair, soft and, furry, will be a new
and interesting wool to handle. Also
Ripple, which is equivalent to a 7- or
8-ply and gives a fashionable rough,
tweedy finish. Both these are godsends
for the girl who likes “to see something
for her work” quickly (a mohair-stole
can be knitted in a couple of hours),
but for really swift knitting there is Jet
Triple-knit which is worked on No. 3
needles. It should be a case of “Now
you don’t see it, now you do!”
Another of P. and B.’s interesting yarns
is made specially for ski-wear and is
oily and water-resistant. Colors range
from a warm, vivid red to an attractive,
muted shade called bronze. Altogether it
looks as if knitting is to be made easy
for TV-watchers this season and speed
is to be the essence of the contract.
June McManus, younger daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. B. A. McManus, of
Haberfield, announces her engagement
this week to Gregory Coleman, son of
Mr. and Mrs. D. R. Coleman, of Croy-
don. June, who is a graduate in arts,
is secretary to Professor T. J. Robinson,
Professor of Animal Husbandry at
Sydney University. Her fiance is doing
his final year in veterinary-science, and
they plan to marry at the end of the year.
Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Australian journalist Miss Abbey
Clancy has arrived from New York for a
five-weeks’ holiday in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. She is a press-officer in the
public-information department of the
United Nations Secretariat and is one
of the seven journalists who prepare
press-releases for distribution to all parti
of the world. Miss Clancy’s niece an|
nephew, Perpetua and Michael, have
come to Sydney from Perth to be wit!
her while she is on leave.
☆ ☆ ☆
Other returning travellers are Mavil
and Dorothea Dowling, of Vauclust
While in London they were thrilled ttf
see their biographies in the Internationa
Who’s Who in Poetry, and they spen
much of their time in England visiting
places of literary interest. They sail
Gray’s churchyard at Stoke Pogesl
Wordsworth’s “Dove Cottage,” Keats
cottage at Hampstead, Sir Walter Scott’s*
old home at Abbotsford (where some of
his descendants still live), Carlyle’s Chel-
sea home, and they were personallj
escorted round Dickens - land anc
Lincoln’s Inn by the under-treasurer o|
Lincoln’s Inn. To cap it all, they wer?
guests of the London Poetry Society
during its Golden Jubilee Celebrations.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sign of the time: Mother to son:
“Don’t hit your sister. Boys never hil
girls.” Son: “That’s what you think!
They do it all the time on TV!”
☆ ☆ ☆
Speculation about what the Queen
will call her baby (expected very soot
now) has brought some odd suggestions
Amy (after many years) is one, anc
Stella (a star), because of advances it
space-travel, is another. Quite possibh
the babe will be Victoria if a girl an|
Andrew if a boy..
* ☆ ☆
The pair of silver fighting-cocks whicl
Prime Minister Menzies presented to thi
Governor-General, Sir William Slim, ani
Lady Slim were immediately christen©
“Bob and Bert” by Sir William, whc
added: “All our memories of our year!
in Australia will be revived when w
look at Bob and Bert.”
☆ ☆ ☆
A “Thanksgiving for Healthy Children
appeal will be launched on February
by the N.S.W. Society for Cripple!
Children, with £250,000 as the targets
a sum which would enable the society
to continue its care of the 2500 crippled
children already provided for, as we!
as to extend its services to older children
especially those in their teens. P al
would be allotted to providing transpor
for handicapped teenagers, who coui|
then take up suitable employment aiw
become at least partly self-supporting-
Sir Kenneth Street, retiring Chief Justice
of N.S.W., has agreed to be the chain
man of the appeal.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was interesting to hear what tltf
154 children from the outback who havS
just finished a three-weeks seaside
holiday at the Far West Camp at Manj)
appreciated most during their stay i
Sydney. They had had bus- and ferry,
rides, had been to the circus, the theatre


the pantomime, Luna Park and the Zoo,
with the rest of the time spent mostly on
the beach and in the surf.
Nearly all the boys declared the surfing
was the best thing, while the girls mostly
thought Luna Park the most amazing
place. The amenities at the Far West
Camp, which was held in the Public
School at Manly, greatly intrigued all,
and the variety of food at mealtimes
also delighted them. One small boy had
never seen a sausage before! Several
children were unfamiliar with salads, but
all agreed that the nicest pudding was
coconut-custard!
☆ ☆ ☆
Commencing this week is the interest-
ing exhibition of the Children’s Anti-
Litter Poster Competition conducted by
the Australian Broadcasting Commission
during 1958. It will be opened by Lord
Mayor Jensen today, Wednesday (27th),
at 2.30 in the David Jones’ Walk Gallery.
* ☆ ☆
Flower-arrangements have become in-
creasingly popular among Sydney
women over the past five years or so,
and classes are always very well attended.
In the Garden Club is arrang-
ing a series' of five lectures specialising
in Japanese arrangements, which will be
discussed by Mrs. Arthur Davis, Mrs.
K. Inagaki and Mrs. Pachibana ; other
lectures will be given by Mrs. E. G.
Waterhouse, Mrs. K. Cudmore, Mrs.
F. W. Houston and Mrs Dale Coleman.
The subjects covered are driftwood-
arrangements, fruit-and-flower arrange-
ments for the table or for gifts, and
flowers for the home, as well as the
Japanese arrangements mentioned earlier.
MELBORNE
When heavy rain washed-out the
Government House garden - party
organised to launch the Y.W.C.A.
Appeal the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
transferred it to the ballroom and State
dining-room. Representatives of the Y
had come from Warrnambool, Ararat,
Ballarat, Bendigo and the Latrobe
Valley. Lady Brooks wore a sheath-
frock of re-embroidered haze-blue lace.
The Premier’s wife, Mrs. Henry Bolte,
chose a printed-silk frock and matching
jacket in black, grey and beige tonings
with a beige platter-toque finished with
a black velvet bow. The Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Bernard Evans, wore with her light-
blue silk frock a duck-egg-blue wool
coat and a toque in shades of duck-egg-
blue, white and beige. With Opposition
Leader C. Stoneham was his wife, whose
full-skirted frock of mosaic-printed silk
in peacock-blue and pink was topped
with a matching straw hat finished with
a silk pleated trim. The Acting Chief-
Secretary (Mr. Petty) was accompanied
by his wife, and also in the official party
was the chairman of the Y.W.C.A.
Appeal, Sir Edgar Coles, and Lady Coles,
who wore with her ensemble of navy
silk-shantung a white hat to match the
white ruffle on her jacket.
Other guests included Lady Connolly,
Mrs. L. Pizzey, Lady Murdoch, Sir
Arthur and Lady Smithers, Mr. and Mrs.
L. J. Dooling, Mr. and Mrs. W. K.
Burnside, Mr. and Mrs. Max Moffatt,
Mrs. Hector Greig, Mrs. Ewart Chappie,
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Sloman, Mrs. lan
Mein, Mr. and Mrs. Colin Mac Kay, Mrs.
Jack Steele, Mrs. A. G. Silk, Mr. and
Mrs. George Laurens, Mrs. J. Bowen
Pain and Mr. and Mrs. John Inkster,
Judith Storey (whose photo is by
John War man) was joint guest-of-honor
with Derek Holyman at a late-afternoon
party given by her mother, Lady Storey,
in her Glen Iris home to celebrate their
engagement. Judith was attractive in an
Italian-silk frock shaded in turquoise-
blue and grey, the skirt of which was
bell-shaped.
Judith’s mother wore a sheath-frock
of beech-brown guipure-lace. Among
the 150 guests were Derek’s mother, Lady
Holyman (in white silk frock patterned
in a black-leaf design); his brother-in-
law and sister, Mr. and Mrs. Robin
Giles; and Judy’s brother and sister-in-
law, Mr. and Mrs. Keith Storey
(Sydney); Mr. and Mrs. George
Griffith (she wearing a white silk frock
patterned in a bold olive-green design);
Lieut.-General Sir Henry and Lady
Wells; Sir George and Lady Coles ;
Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. E. Hewitt;
Lady Mighell; Mr. and Mrs. Oscar
Bowden; Mrs Isobel Green (the Prime
Minister’s sister); Lady McConnan;
Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Gibson; Dr. and
Mrs. W. McCann (she wearing blue
taffeta); Jenny Stratmann (she leaves
soon for a trip overseas); Mr. and Mrs.
David Shepherd; lan Ingham, Robert
Coles and Rodney Davidson.
As well as granting their patronage,
the Governor and Lady Brooks will
attend the gala-performance of “The
Music Man” at the Princess Theatre on
March 7, which will assist the Royal
Melbourne Hospital and St. Vincent’s
Hospital auxiliaries. Dress-circle seats
are £2 25., stalls 305., upper-circle
15s. 6d. and 12s. 6d, They may be
obtained from Mrs. G. J. W. Leeson
(FJ2553) and Mrs.' W. Phelan (WA3008).
☆ ☆ ☆
Louis Verneuil, author of “Affairs of
State,” now showing at the Little
Theatre, is a Frenchman who lives in
the U.S., and -this is his first play written
in English. First published under the
name of “Irene,” it is a gay, witty piece
about people in love. The first-night
audience included Mr. and Mrs.
Christopher Bailey (she was formerly
Minna Shelley, well-known in this city’s
theatrical circles), Mr. and Mrs. John
Heath, Mrs. Geoffrey Tebbutt, Mr. and
Mrs. Race Godfrey, Mrs. Bob Horne
(just back from overseas), Margaret Reed
and Dorothy O’Keefe (both well-known
Little Theatre players), Mr. Justice
Spicer and Mrs. Spicer and Mrs. R. F. G.
Fogarty, Mr. and Mrs. Eric Lampe, Mr.
and Mrs. S. G. Prentice, and Mrs. George
Fairfax (wife of the producer of the
play).
☆ ☆ ☆
The accompanying chant of an
aboriginal corroboree adds to the drama
and tensions of “Prisoners’ Country,”
now being presented by the University’s
Union Theatre Repertory Company.
The work of the late Vance Palmer
—whose widow and daughters Aileen
and Helen came from Sydney for
the opening night—the play is set
on a cattle-station. In the audience
were Sir John Latham, Sir Arthur
and Lady Smithers, Mrs. Rupert
Downes, Mrs. Massey Burnside, Mr. and
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson (who wore a
crystal-beaded white cardigan over a
pastel-pink frock), Mrs. John Summer
(in an all-white ensemble), Mrs. Hudson
Ralph and Mrs. P. Dudley.
☆ ☆ ☆
On her first visit to Australia —with
whose hospitality and flowers she de-
clares herself enchanted —is Mrs. Charles
Holt, who with her husband, managing-
director of Thomas Cook and Son, Ltd.,
is visiting our capital cities before flying
on to New Zealand as part of a world-
tour. Siim, petite, with fair complexion
and brown hair tipped with blonde
streaks, Mrs. Holt was born in Hamburg,
Germany, and she still has traces of
her native accent. The Holt’s home is
in Pinner, just out of London.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another interesting arrival (she’ll be
with us for three years) is Mrs. Daniel
O’Donovan, who with her husband is
staying at Menzies’ while they go house-
hunting. Mrs. O’Donovan was formerly
Jane Templer, only daughter of Field-
Marshal Sir Gerald Templer, former
Chief of the Imperial General Staff. She
lived in Malaya from 1950 to 1954, when
the Field-Marshal was G.0.C.-in-C.
Eastern Command and later High Com-
missioner to the Federation of Malaya.
Mrs. O’Donovan is interested in outdoor
activities, especially swimming. •


with and horses, leavings the
white men free to manage the wagon
teams. Great-grandmother Costello
“manned” one buggy and her
capable daughter-in-law the other,
while Grandmother took charge of
the little ones.
The weather they had chosen for
this move was another drought; the
Costello’s firstborn died of thirst on
the way; but a few weeks after their
arrival at Mobel Creek a second child,
a little girl, was born to them, and the
rain fell. Thereupon Costello de-
cided to take 200 of his horses down
to Adelaide, rather than have them run
wild, ended the 860 unsurveyed miles
with a cheque for £3OOO and came back
by sea to Goulburn, where he regis-
tered his Mobel holding of 40,000
acres. Meanwhile Patsy Durack had
explored further up into Queensland,
to Thylungra on Cooper’s Creek,
where, on the return of Costello, the
whole crowd moved in 1868 and where
Patsy Durack put up a mud-brick
homestead, Thylungra Station.
From here on it is a story of struggles
with drought, but also of increase of
stock and acquisition of land. Some
of the land they took up they put their
relatives on, other properties “taken up
on spec.” they sold at a profit: “The
combined area of registered holdings
that can still be identified.... amounts
to over 17,000 square-miles, or nearly
eleven-million acres.” About 1877, a
rich man, Costello sold out and moved
to a property on the Queensland coast,
near Rockhampton, but in 1879 he
took up a lease on the Northern
Territory border.
This was the year of Alexander
Forrest’s expedition from Perth to
explore the Kimberleys, and the report
of Western Autralia’s rich northern
country fired Patsy Durack’s imagina-
tion in 1881: Patsy and his brother
Michael sailed to Perth to see
Alexander Forrest, and in Perth
selected about acres on the
Ord, Nicholson Plains, Margaret River
and Fitzroy. On their return, they
sent a party under Stumpy Michael by
sea to the Cambridge Gulf to explore
the family holdings; and after a wild
time with crocodiles biting horses’
noses and encounters with blacks, the
party got back to the coast and thus to
Fremantle and back to Sydney.
Thereupon Grandfather Patsy organ-
ised the droving of some 7500 cattle
from south-west Queensland across the
Northern Territory to the Ord River,
more than 2500 miles; it took them
from August, 1883, to September,
1885. The first party established, it
was joined by Grandfather Patsy’s two
sons, one Mary Durack’s father, and
later visited by Grandfather, who put
something of his old ginger into the
establishment of a homestead on the
Behn River and spoke of agree-
ments on the disposal of his Kimberley
interests to his sons.
The next big news is the ruin of
Grandfather Patsy in 1890; worth
something like three-quarters of a
million pounds, he lost the lot —his
interest in the company he had formed
to house his Queensland properties, his
house near Brisbane—in the year pre-
ceding the big general smash-up of
1891:
Grandfather, having signed Argyle
[the Kimberley property] over to his
sons, had no asset left on which to
raise anything at all. Only the few
possessions in Grandmother’s name
survived the holocaust —a few pieces
of furniture and some wedding
presents. The rest were spirited
away.
Thereafter, he made a visit to
Ireland, and returned to sit about,
wan-spirited, on his sons’ estates. The
story goes on to the death of Michael
Patrick Durack, the author’s father, at
85 in 1950, when he “finally signed
away his company’s long-held rights to
the [Kimberley] land and all the stock
that grazed on it.”
In her portrait of Grandfather Patsy,
Miss Durack has admirably justified the
“King” part of her title; he adventured
into new country like a conqueror, he
held land like royalty and he ruled
like royalty. He was kind to the
blacks, but thought nothing of quicken-
ing a slow worker when he was brand-
ing with a branding-iron on the rump.
When his head stockman said
resignedly that another stockman
couldn’t be controlled Grandfather said,
“Oh, is that so?” and as casually
felled the uncontrollable one with a
stirrup-iron. And although he could
hardly spell, his writ ran across the
breadth of Australia: —
This is to certify that I, Patrick
Durack, has gave Half of 1270....
head of cattle now started for
Western Australia in charge of my
brother Jeremiah to Patrick Angus
Ambrose Durack, my Nephew....
One of the most difficult things to
follow in this enormous chronicle is
the continually increasing list of
brothers, wives, sons, nephews,
daughters, sons-in-law —Duracks, Cos-
tellos, Emanuels, etc.; perhaps in a
work of fiction these might have been
pruned.
And yet, with its wonderful descrip-
tions of droughts and overland droving,
and boys going a thousand miles from
Queensland back to school at St.
Patrick’s College, Goulburn, and Will
Ogilvie picking up his best horse from
a pound, a stolen horse with the 7PD
brand on it, and women managing in
the outback, and the Durack in the
outer Barcoo country who claimed to
have been the original of Paterson’s
“Bush Christening,” and its complexity
of Durack buyings and sellings, and
the aunt who was prevented at the last
moment from marrying a young man
who was out in Australia after having
been mentioned as an associate of
Oscar Wilde, the book as it stands is
probably far better than any novel; an
irreducible record of a great family and
of a series of great actions.
Desert Adventure
Desert Sands, by Wilfred Thesiger
(Longmans), is the last record that
will ever be written by the last of the i
great desert adventurers, for the desert
they crossed no longer exists. Oil and
the motor-car have abolished its vast
spaces and solitudes, its terrible isola-
tion from all the amenities of life, and
the nomads who have inhabited it since
the days of prehistory. Those will be
absorbed into the degraded survivals of
their species hanging about on the
outskirts of a mechanised civilisation,
which demoralises all simple and
primitive nationalities and submerges
their individual distinctions in a
uniform mass.
The desert which Thesiger explored
is known to the Arabs as the Empty
Quarter, a vast, sterile waste of sand,
waterless, save for a few brackish wells,
arid of growths except for patches of
drought-resisting shrubs, sweltering
under a furnace-heat by day and a
freezing cold by night—a veritable
leak-over from Hell, with death by
thirst, starvation, or the knife of an
enemy forever lurking among its wind-
blown sand-ridges.
This inferno those nomads the Bedu
Arabs have elected to be their home.
They are probably the oldest pure race
on earth. The civilisation that once
flourished in Arabian cities left them
untouched. All they took from it was
the creed of Mahomet, preached to
them by wandering dervishes, which
has only accentuated their static
primitivism while it succeeded in
destroying the Arabian civilisation, as
all conquering evangels by the messiahs
of the people must do. From Western
civilisation they have taken only one
thing, guns ...
Of those nomads Thesiger writes:—
It is characteristic of Bedu to do
things by extremes, to be either
wildly generous or unbelievably
mean, very patient or almost
hysterically excitable, to be incred-
ibly brave or to panic for no
apparent reason. Ascetic by nature,
they derive satisfaction from the
bare simplicity of their lives, and
scorn the amenities which others
would judge essential. Although, on
the rare occasions that offer, they
eat enormously, I have never met a
Bedu who was greedy. Continent


for months, not one of them, even
the m ost austere, would regard
celibacy as a virtue. They want
sons, and consider that women were
provided by God for the satisfaction
0 f men They have very little
respect for human life, and would
prefer to see a man die than see him
humiliated. Always reserved in
front of strangers, they are a
garrulous, lighthearted race. At
the instigation of religious zealots
they can become uncompromisingly
puritanical, quick to frown on all
amusement, regarding song and
music as a sin and laughter un-
seemly. Probably no other people,
either as a race or as-individuals,
combine so many conflicting quali-
ties in such an extreme degree.
Of their ruthlessness as killers he
gives one horrifying instance. The
desert tribes are constantly at war with
each other, raiding each other’s camels
and exchanging shots on sight. On
such an encounter the young son of
one of the Arabs was killed. The party
rode on. and came by chance on a
camp in which there was a woman and
a few young children. Straightway the
father whose son had been killed
dropped off his camel, seized a boy of
fourteen and drove his dagger into
him. The boy collapsed, moaning,
“Oh. my father —my father.” and the
killer stood over him till he died, and
then climbed back on his camel, grief
for his own son soothed by this
summary enactment of the law of a
life for a life.
Thesiger says, “I rode along haunted
by the thought of that murdered child,”
and this confession is impressive, for
it shocked Thesiger out of his frank
concession to the laws of a barbaric
people, in which a killing and a
reprisal-killing may avert wholesale
murder among people who are not
subject to any outside authority. Those
remarkable Englishmen who have
mixed so freely among the dark, bar-
baric races must have a substratum of
the barbarian in them, for no other
race but the English has so well under-
stood the primitive mentality and how
to deal with it.
Thesiger goes among those Arabs
under the label of a Christian, an
infidel whose throat it is an act of merit
to cut, but they accept him as one of
themselves, and serve him with
devotion. Only an atavistic memory
? a u explain this intuitive understand-
lng between Arab and Englishman,
and the spell of the desert on such men
as Doughty, Burton, Lawrence. St. John
Philby and others. Gertrude Bell, that
brilliant and amazing woman who
travelled into the Arabian bad-lands
w dh only a couple of Arab servants,
accepting its risks, its gruelling exer-
tions, its intolerable discomforts with
equanimity, was constantly haunted
by the conviction of a common ancestry
with the Arabic peoples. This is what
Thesiger has to say of the desert’s
lure and rewards:—
In the desert I found a freedom
unattainable in civilisation ; a life
unhampered by possessions, since
everyth ng that was not a necessity
was an encumbrance. I found, too.
a comradeship inherent in the cir-
cumstances, and the belief that
tranquillity was to be had there. I
had learnt the satisfaction that comes
from hardship and the pleasure which
springs from abstinence; the con-
tentment of a full belly ; the richness
of meat ; the taste of clean water :
the ecstasy of surrender when the
craving for sleen becomes a tor-
ment ; the warmth of a fire in the
chill of the dawn.
And to endure that terrible journey
across the Empty Quarter. Thesiger
must have had not only the spirit of
an Arab, but his physical toughness.
Of its achievement St. John Philby said
with authority. “The crowning touches
have been placed on this exploratory
activity in Arabia by Wilfred Thesiger,
who is probably’ the greatest of all the
explorers.”
N.L.
7001 Australians
A woman journalist who is also a
well-known TV personality, Jeanne
Heal travelled 57.000 miles in three-
and-a-half months to write A Thousand
and One Australians (Michael Joseph).
Why Australia? Because it was “the
realisation of a lifetime’s ambition
Because surely there, in the big empty
spaces and the crowding cities of the
world’s largest island, the world’s
smallest, oldest continent, one could
hope to glimpse the future.”
The book is breathless as the
journey but, at least, Miss Heal likes
Australians and pays tribute to “the
complete lack of snobbishness one finds
everywhere in Australia” (not, though,
in Woomera). She seems to have
enjoyed Tasmania, which she discovers
to be “the island State of Australia
set at the foot of the continent, south
of Victoria”; likewise Melbourne (“In
the fashionable suburb of Toorak you
stepped out of their large car into a
shaded porch, and suddenly you were
in the most wonderful setting it could
be possible to imagine”); but what
went wrong in Sydney?—-
There was an epidemic of Astar
’flu while I was there, and this, too.
seemed in character... .Sydney, the
original city of the kindest, friend-
liest, nicest country in the world
did something to me no other city
has ever done —it reduced me to
private tears. I was just so unhappy
there.
Charmed by the “kind, endlessly
kind” Qantas crew, she asked them
their home-towns. “I hate to have to
admit it. but the answer in every case
was—Sydney.”
Reviewed Briefly
Rapidly Round the Bend: C. Hamil-
ton Ellis (Max Parrish ). A short review
of railway history beginning, surpris-
ingly enough, in Ur of the Chaldees,
where, so the author asserts, stone
roads were made with ruts cut in them
to keep the chariots in place. And
so to Stephenson's Rocket, etc.; in so
amiably skittish a style that you would
think the book was about balloons
rather than locomotives.
* * • *
The Signature Was Joy: Iris Hughes-
Sparrow (Paul’s Book Arcade, Hamil-
ton, N.Z.). Reminiscences of a New
Zealand childhood; a little wordy and
sentimental, but also charming and
amusing—the time, for instance, when
the small girl, who had just read
“Alice in Wonderland,” ate a pot of
her mother’s vanishing-cream to see
if it would make her disappear. Women
readers should enjoy it.
« * • •
Local Government in Tasmania:
K. R. von Stieglitz (“Telegraph”
Printery. Launceston). Here and
there, when history gives him an
excuse, the author is able to bring a
spot of color into this work —the testi-
mony of a Scotswoman of the period,
for instance, on the behavior and
treatment of the convicts at Port
Arthur—“l don’t remember a single
case of violent misconduct all the time
we were there, so orderly were the
prisoners. Some of them were flogged,
of course, but that did not happen
very often.” But in general it is a
plain, factual and statistical record,
restricted to specialised interest.
* • • •
Back In the Jug Agane: Geoffrey
Willans and Ronald Searle (Max
Parrish). Molesworth. Nuf sed.
* • * *
A Herbal of Sorts: Geoffrey Grigson
(Phoenix). Odd bits of information
about plants—how to make bluebell-
glue and comfrey-fritters, for instance,
and how the Monkey Puzzle first came
from Chile, and what Matthew Arnold
said about purple orchises with spotted
leaves. A pleasant bedside-book for
the gardener.


Start-stop driving demands the extra strength of
TRIPLE-TEMPERED 3-T TYRE!
“BEuey” Paton, tyre builder, knows wl
.
J > ,
*
#•
m
m
I
•••y £
W'
WMMmm
■
Tyre Builder, “Bluey”
Patou, trims the third
ply of a Goodyear 3-T
tyre. He says plies built
from 3-T cord make
Goodyear Tyres the
strongest on the road.
mi
More power—for acceleration and braking—is at your command in
today’s cars. But fast starts and sudden stops take their toll on tyres.
Best tyres to withstand these stresses are 3-T tyres, made only by
Goodyear. After Rayon or Nylon tyre cord has been triple-tempered
in the exclusive Goodyear 3-T process, experienced tyre builders like
“Bluey” Paton build it into the finest tyres money can buy. Developed
in the Akron, U.S.A., laboratories of the world’s biggest rubber
company, 3-T cord has a strength other tyre cords do not have. Since
Goodyear 3-T tyres are built to meet the toughest conditions, they’ll
give you better performance anywhere you drive. Whichever Goodyear
tyre you choose—3-T Rayon or the finest tyre ever made in Australia,
Goodyear Imperial 3-T Nylon—you can count on more mileage than
from any other tyres you can buy. Buy them at your Goodyear Dealer,
Garage or Service Station.
Custom Supercushion
by Goodyear—built with
3-T cord and featuring
ike proven twin-tread design
3T
3-T MEANS TRIPLE-TEMPERED . . . FOR GREATER MILEAGE STRENGTH AND SAF
