

It's the same
the whole world over
7/
W
jr-
.
--
W
In the days of Tall Ships
Dewars
was a famous name in the history of Scotch Whisky,
Today, throughout the world,
"White Label”
Dewar’s Scotch Whisky
is renowned for its unvarying
excellence and distinctive character
—it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN DEWAR 8c SONS LTD.
PERTH,SCOTLAND
DWII3
The Bulletin
w®@& mmm
Wednesday, June 1, 1960
Price 1/«
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.


STORY WRITING
FREELANCE JOURNALISM
WRITING FOR RADIO
VERSE WRITING
If you desire to take up Writing seriously, we
recommend that you study all branches of
Literary Work—the Short Story, tire Article,
the Written Sketch, the Paragraph, Radio Plays,
Radio Talks, Scripts of all kinds, Verse, etc.
Stott’s Courses are thorough and complete. Write
for special Literary Prospectus, giving details of
all Combined and Single Courses.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Hinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagli St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON --
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE (S.B. 1160)
BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, C.P.0.. Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
T. S. ELIOT
Hugh Kenner’s book on T. S. Eliot,
The Invisible Poet (W. H. Allen),
doesn't make him much more visible.
Marianne Moore called him “a master
of the anonymous.” and because of
this, the simplest disclosures about him
are surprising: that when he was young
in England he taught school; that on
his marriage he took a £l5O-a-year job
in a bank; that he wrote huge quanti-
ties of unsigned. hand-to-mouth
journalism and once reviewed a dozen
detective-stories in one article; that he
is suspected of writing detective-
stories under another name; that when
he was asked to join the newly
established firm of Faber it was because
of his business experience as a banker;
that he is thought to have told some-
one that the “Four Quartets” were
based on four string - quartets of
Bartok’s.
And also that “The Hollow Men”
was retrieved, particularly some of the
songs, from material thrown out of
“The Waste Land” by Ezra Pound’s
drastic editing: that Eliot once con-
sidered using the old-man poem,
“Gerontion.” as a preface to “The
Waste Land" and then added the notes,
which were not in its original appear-
ance in the “Criterion*’ and the “Dial''
in 1922, because in book-form the
poem was “too long for 32 pages of
decent-sized print and a good deal too
short for 64”; that in 1920. when he
was London correspondent for the
“Dial,” Eliot was always writing about
music-hall artists, praising Marie
Lloyd, Little Tich. George Mozart,
Ernie Lotinga and Mistinguet at the
same time as he decried the lack of a
living literary tradition, because of
which he might have meant the London
music-hall when he wrote: “To have,
given into one’s hands, a crude form,
capable of indefinite refinement, and
to be the person to see the possibilities
—Shakspeare was very fortunate
The members of a group debating
Eliot and dramatic poetry seem to con-
clude that much of Eliot’s urge to play-
writing came from a study of these
London music-halls.
But for the most part Kenner’s book
is a book-by-book survey of Eliot's
poetry and criticism, much of it repe-
titious for those who have walked
through the same pieces with so many
other commentators, but perhaps the
most complete and easy introduction
to Eliot for those who have not. You
would have to be pretty-well omnis-
cient not to be able to learn something
from it: for instance, that in the “Four
Quartets.”
If “East Coker” brings the Eliot
family from England to America,
and “The Dry Salvages” brings T. S.
Eliot from the “nursery bedroom”
to the phase in which he was a
student of Bradley’s and a disciple
of Irving Babbitt’s, “Little Gidding”
returns him to England and the
Church of England . . .
And as one who advanced the daring
proposition after the Sydney Elizabe-
than production of “Murder in the
Cathedral” that the women were “out
of place.” the reviewer is nothing reluct-
ant to notice even better condemnations
of them: —
The language of the Chorus: their
ululating logorrhea, doubling and
tripling the image, assailing and
bewildering the mind with that re-
duplication of epithets that caused
Ezra Pound to turn off his radio
in Rapallo with a despairing. “Oh.
them cawkney woices.” (“I stuck it
fer a while, wot wiff the weeping
and wailin. Mzzr Shakzpeer stiil
retains his posishun.”). . . .Indeed no
stable tone presents itself; the
Women, “Living and partly living,”
squander dozens of arresting phrases
in a tumult of unfocused concern.
R. McC.
Two "Angry" Penguins
First published in 1953 and now
reissued by Penguin Books. John
Wain’s Hurry On Down has come to
be regarded as the forerunner of the
“Angries”—that loosely labelled com-
partment into which English criticism
has crammed the work of writers as
different from each other as Kingsley
Amis, John Osborne, John Braine and
Colin Wilson.
Its basic mood is by now all too
familiar —a young man’s exasperated
rejection of the insulated “unreality”
of bourgeois life in the Welfare State,
followed by a quest for “real” experi-
ence. After half-heartedly taking a
history degree at a Midlands university
its hero, convinced that his whole back-
ground so far has unfitted him for real
life, throws-up family and fiancee and
becomes by turns window-cleaner,
transport-driver, drug-runner, hospital
orderly, chauffeur to a millionaire and
chucker-out in a London club, ulti-
mately attaining, as a radio scriptwriter,
the emotional and social neutrality he
finds he has all along really wanted.
There is a price on all this, however,
and at the end he is ironically pre-
paring to pay it.
The book was hailed on publication
as a revival of the comic picaresque;
and so. with such a swinging plot, it
could have been. Yet the total impres-
sion it now gives is of persistent small-
ness. It has a compelling honesty; it
has wit. irony and invention; the
trouble is that it is all too carefully
calculated around its “message.” and
the essence of successful picaresque is
that it should seem anything but calcu-
lated. The calculation, of course, comes
from the hero, and it is his preoccupa-
tion with himself that continually re-
duces the broad stream of life around
him to a mere trickle.
By reissuing Robert Graves's auto-
biography Goodbye To All That in
the same batch as Wain's novel.
Penguins seem almost to be inviting a
comparison unfavorable, and perhaps
unfair, to Wain: for Graves when he
wrote it (1929) was also an “angry.”
and although he has since revised it
(1957). its anger seems far more urgent
than Wain's or. for that matter, any of
his contemporaries’.
This is partly because Graves and
his generation really had something to
kick against, and partly because they
did not have to go on a selfconscious
search for reality but had it thrust upon
them in the enormous and terrible
shape of World War I and the struggle
to rehabilitate themselves after it. But
mostly it is because Graves had the
broad vision to rise above his experi-
ences. and the technical range to record
them memorably.
Even though this is autobiography,
there is no narrowing preoccupation
with self; here is reality recorded just
as it happened, with an eye and a hand
that are everywhere quick and sure —
as quick and sure as Hemingway at his
best in imparting emotion through
action, as cool and precise as Graves
the later critic in delivering opinions
(Continued on page 82)


Hunting, Shooting, Fishing in Australia’s
mm w§
m mmm
MM '
,' ’ ■ • . •
■
m
me* M
i H
iii&m
«?“
iW. 3nlte&^''
“Woody” Woodhill, American hunter from California, with his first Buffalo
shot at Xourlanjfie Camp.
NORTHERN TERRITORY
We Guarantee You
A Buffalo On
DARWIN SAFARI
GO
"East Of The Alligator"
For Your Next (or first)
HUNTING HOLIDAY
fm&L jjfl
■ill
*■
m
I ;
mm
*
1
mmm
■
1
“Barra for Breakfast.” Roy, from (junwinguu
tribe, with 151 b. Barramundi caught 200 yards
from camp.
Hunt buffalo, crocodile, pig, kangaroo, dingo, ducks, geese, quail
(in season). Fish for barramundi, Saratoga and other lagoon fish.
Enthusiasts with gun, rod or camera at NOURLANGIE CAMP
—all this only 120 miles east of Darwin in Arnhem Land,
where “Time Stands Still.”
Nourlangie has the best “bush comfort” traditional features.
Attractive two-bed cabins, inner-
spring mattresses, electric light, fans,
refrigeration, tastefully furnished bar
lounge, dining room, billiards, swim-
ming, horseriding and boating. This
Australian hunting paradise has been
described by American hunters Bill
Carpenter and Arthur Jones of Lousi-
ana and “Woody” Woodhill of Cali-
fornia, U.S.A., as the best of the
world s hunting camps and grounds
Allan Stewart,
Managing: Director
they had ever seen. Guests are flown in by modern light aircraft
from Darwin to Nourlangie—so minutes’ flying time. If stay is
seven days or more guest is flown free. Darwin Safari supplies
in its all-inclusive tariff of £2O per day, clothing, guns, ammuni-
tion, fishing gear, native skinners, boats, horses, motor vehicles,
your white hunter, food, accommodation and refreshments.
m ■■'
* ~
jgi
a S
':*fe'
v : ' .3 wl
■
■'
I
m&mmmmmmmmmm
X-RAY cave paintings of Gunwinguu tribe who hunt
in Safari Country.
1960 SEASON NOW OPEN
LIMITED BOOKINGS
SPECIAL 6-DAY CENTENARY SAFARI
For the busy executive “who just can’t find the time”
ask about these special safaris designed especially for
your needs.
Further enquiries to —
Government Tourist Bureaus (all States) and
your Travel Agent—
DARWIN SAFARI LIMITED
Commercial Chambers, 393 George Street, Sydney,
AUSTRALIA. BX 2978.
Cables: “Alligator,” Sydney, Australia.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 1, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4190
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William Si.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
KHRUSHCHEV AND MAO
'T'HE Russian complaint to the
A Security Council about the flight
of the U-2, though even more noisy
than the Flight of the Bumble Bee,
proved scarcely worth while from
Moscow’s point of view. Or did it?
Indeed, in the U.S.A., Security
Council proceedings were over-
shadowed by the reactions of Ameri-
cans to the clumsy handling of the
incident by the State Department and
by the eagerness of the Democrats to
use the whole business as political
ammunition. It is clear, however, that
even if they succeed it will be little
comfort for Russia, since what is hap-
pening implies a censure on the current
President, who will not be a candidate,
and a victoryUn the Presidential elec-
tions would be an empty one for both
Russian and American victors.
World interest had tended to become
stale, and the moment Khrushchev
ceased his bellowings and people had
time to think for themselves the
unrealities of the position became
clear to the average newspaper-
reader. It scarcely needed the
reiteration to the Security Council of
the spying record of the U.S.S.R. to
make it clear that the whole of
Khrushchev’s attack was merely a
diversionary tactic designed to provide
an excuse for wrecking the conference
which seemed on the way to land him
in an impasse on the Berlin issue.
He had determined to make Berlin
and East Germany his stand. He had
prepared the backing of force through
the reorganisation of the Russian Gov-
ernment and the Red Army; but some-
thing went wrong at the last moment.
Perhaps it was that the East German
position was leading to insecurity and
the wretched inhabitants, wedged in
between serried ranks of Soviet Union
tanks, showed ' signs of another
Hungary. Or perhaps it was that he
had discovered for certain after his
visit to de Gaulle that it was hopeless
trying to divide the Nato allies or to
get them out of Berlin without a war
which certainly would have developed
into a global war.
Perhaps, in those circumstances, he
felt it better to retrieve what could be
got out of anticipated advantages from
the Summit, while covering his retreat
and giving the Republicans a nasty
slap behind the ear in the Presidential
election campaign in the hope that he
might turn the scale against them and
help introduce another Franklin D.
Roosevelt to the White House. Per-
haps he was looking further afield and
collaborating with Peking in some
larger plan.
He certainly could not have had
much feeling, unless it was of
dismay, behind his performance over
the U-2. any more than he can expect
anything from the U.N. proceedings,
which merely produced an answer from
the U.S. Ambassador, Henry Cabot
Lodge, listing the names of ten Russian
official spies captured, since Stalin's
death, in the United States, mostly
during Khrushchev's God - sworn
angelic regime.
The last one of them was Colonel
Rudolph Ivanovich Abel, a Russian
diplomatic espionage artist, who was
sentenced to 30 years’ jail" almost under
the shadow of the United Nations’
building and only a few weeks before
the U-2 incident.
A/TR. LODGE added that at least 360
, * Soviet Union official spies had
been captured in the free world,—these,
of course, do not include the battalion
or so taken in Germany—since Stalin
had passed on. And he remarked that
“we remember Fuchs. Gouzenko,
Petrov and Gubichev.”
It would seem logickl that if the
Russians claim the right not only to
shoot-down aerial spies over Russia
and deliver “shattering blows” against
the bases from which they come, the
United States and other countries might
equally claim the right to deliver the
same kind of shattering blows against
those enclaves of Russian diplomatic
territory, the Embassies and legations
of the U.S.S.R., which, wherever
sampled, have turned out to be centres
of espionage, subversion and attempted
blackmail, sometimes even of open
lawlessness.
There cannot, as Mr. Lodge said, be
a double standard. And if President
Eisenhower was guilty of the “perfidy”
with which he was charged by
Gromyko, through “professing friend-
ship” for Khrushchev at Camp David,
“even as American planes were engaged
in a programme of aggressive actions.”
what was Khrushchev guilty of at the
same time with Embassy officials like
Colonel Abel in the United States
organising networks of espionage?
There was certainly no breach in the
Nato allies on the Security Council,
and the American launching of the
Midas warning - satellite, as a pre-
liminary to the launching of another in
a few months to scan Russia as well
as its environs, leff no doubt but that
Washington did not intend to be intimi-
dated into relaxing its sentry-go from
every possible vantage-point against
the possibility of attack without warn-
ing from Russian missile-bases.
TTHE meeting of Seato military ad-
A visers in Washington while the
Security Council was sitting brought
little assurance to the Pacific nations
that Khrushchev's crude and abusive,
and apparently senseless, outburst in
Paris was not connected with his
hurried scamper to Peking after his
journey to America.
The military advisers of the South-
east Asian nations—Britain, France,
the United States, Australia, New
Zealand. Thailand and the Philippines
—are obviously concerned by the
current belligerence of Peking. China
takes no steps to hide the fact that its
Communism is the pure, old-fashioned
Leninism that teaches that peace is only
possible through the destruction of im-
perialist nations, and that, as Mao put
it in his “Problems of War and
Strategy”:—
Every Communist must grasp the
truth: Political power grows out of the
barrel of the gun.... Experience in the
class-war of the era of imperialism
teaches us that the toiling masses cannot
defeat the armed bourgeoisie and land-
lords except by the power of the gun;
in this sense we can only say that the
whole yorld can be remoulded only
with the gun. . . .War can be wiped out
only through war—in order to get rid
of the gun we must first grasp it in
band.
This is the meaning of “peace” as
taught by Marxism-Leninism, accord-
ing to whose tenets all Communists
claim to desire it.
The Chinese have always been per-
fectly frank that this is their interpre-
tation. so that the warning of Admiral
Felt, U.S. Commander-in-Chief in the
Pacific, that Communist China “might
be ready to move against one of its
neighbors” is scarcely likely to be mere
alarmism. especially since the Mao pro-
gramme of 1953 called for crucial
moves .against South-east Asia in the
current year.
In the light of this, of the transport
disturbances aimed* at defence in
countries round the Pacific, in the
attempts to agitate the coal industry in
Australia into disorder once more and
to capture key defence unions and
bring unions whose members work
adjacent to the waterfront within the
grasp of Communist organisers, a
possibility is that Khrushchev has been
acting as a decoy to lead the minds of
the world away from Chinese realities.


SNAPSHOT OF A P.M. MOMENTARILY IN ERIN
“Now till me, y’r honor, would you still be havin’ wild colonial boys like Eddie Ward and Dan Curtin roomin’ the
countryside out yonder in Australia?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Nicklin Government Wins
There was never any real doubt as to
the outcome of Saturday’s Queensland
election. The A.L.P. managed to put on a
bold face for election purposes, but with
the Q.L.P. in the field in strength it had
even less chance of gaining a majority
than Federal Labor has against D.L.P.
competition. The real objective of Labor
in this election was not to defeat the
Nicklin-Morris Government but to wipe-
out the Q.L.P. It did not entirely suc-
ceed in this, but it went a long way
towards it.
The Country-Liberal coalition went to
the polls with 42 seats in a House of 75.
Counting leaves some electorates still in
doubt, but on present indications the
Government should have at least 45 seats
in the slightly bigger Assembly of 78
members. The A.L.P. seems to have
gained a net six seats from the Q.L.P.
and the Country party one. The Q.L.P.
is left with four seats ; it held 11 in the
old Parliament. Ex-Premier Gair lost
the South Brisbane seat he had held since
1932, and his deputy-leader, E. J. Walsh,
is having a hard tussle to retain Bunda-
berg. On Monday he was about 50 votes
ahead of his A.L.P. opponent Salter.
As the first non-Labor Queensland
Government in nearly 50 years to be
elected for a second term, the Nicklin-
Morris team is entitled to be pleased with
itself. It took office in 1957 entirely
lacking in Ministerial experience and with
things at sixes and sevens through the
faction-fight which had overshadowed
more important affairs, during the clos-
ing months of the Gair regime. It had
to learn as it went along, but it has been
able to convince the people of Queens-
land that it offers them the best chance
of stable government. With nearly three
years of experience behind them, Nicklin
and Morris will begin their second term
with confidence.
Loan Market Disappoints
[From Canberra!
The results of the three internal cash
loans floated by the Commonwealth
during the current financial year must
have been disappointing to Treasury
heads at Canberra.
But much more disappointed will be
State Premiers, who already are prepar-
ing detailed submissions for more money
for State works in 1960-61 when the
Premiers’ Conference and Loan Council
assemble later this month.
Of three loans launched on the home
front this year, two have been under-
subscribed by a total of £7.7 million,
with the end-result that cash subscrip-
tions to loans totalled £120.2 million, or
about £2O million less than in 1958-59.
When loan-raisings overseas, together
with subscriptions to Special Bonds, are
added to this total Commonwealth
receipts from borrowing reach the £2OO-
- mark, but this is still less than
the Government had anticipated.
While the Commonwealth is unhappy
with the result, it really sweeps away the
props from under State Premiers who
will want more money for the coming
year.
During the current financial year the
Loan Council authorised State works and
housing loans totalling £220 million, and
as it is the Commonwealth will have to
meet some of this from its own revenues.
But, because of the weakening of the
loan-market, it has a good argument
against any substantial increase in allo-
cations for 1960-61.
Had the loan-market been really
responsive during the current fiscal
period the States could have argued
strongly for a substantial increase in their
allocations.
As it has turned out, the boot is now
on the other foot, and the Commonwealth
can argue strongly against any such
increase.
Most of the time at the coming talks
will be centred on the Loan Council
programme, as, under an agreement
reached last year, reimbursements to the
States under the Uniform Tax Act are
automatically adjusted.
Ant v. Elephant
The Turks have a proverb: “Even if
your foe is an ant, treat him as an
elephant.”
The outcome is usually uncomfort-
able for the treated, but it can be salutary
in reform. When Ataturk dealt with
Moslem marriage, he stamped it out like
the plague. When his Government
handled the Armenians, it put them
underground for the general security
When Ismet Inonii —who used to have
a queer likeness to Billy Hughes about
him—took to the Greeks they and their
villages looked as if they had been the
sudden victims of a devastating earth-
quake
Turanian thoroughness has done a
great deal tor Turkey in the 40 years, but
a lot of people have got hurt in the pro-
cess through being treated like elephants
when they were only ants.
This has not been the work of one
party or section. Any party that gets
power in Turkey may introduce the Swiss
Civil Code, a modern alphabet, use the
benefit of the mdst clear and logical
language in the world to develop the
cause of education, free women from the
veil at a swipe and husbands from the
tyranny of having four wives: but any-
one who stands in the way gets a soft-
nose elephant-slug at high velocity where
a charge of buckshot might have
served the purpose.
Turkey theoretically became a demo-
cratic republic in April, 1924, with all
power vested in the Assembly which
was supposed to control the executive
actions of the President and Ministers,
whom it chose.
Both men and women have the vote at
22. In theory, again, the Government is
very much based on a democratic
socialist policy not unlike that of the
Australian Labor party. But Govern-
ments have governed with majorities
like that of the Republican People’s Party
which was so great in the National
Assembly that there was scarcely any
opposition at all.
Up to 1950 Turkey had had only two
Presidents, both with the same sort of
ideas on freedom —Kemal Ataturk and
Ismet Inonii, the hero of the Greek war.
Then an Opposition arose, and pre-
sently Adnam Menderes was discovered
shouting for freedom, with salutary demo-
cratic results —at the elections of May,
1954, he won 503 seats on 5.3-million
votes, while the People's Party, which
polled 3.2-million votes, could only get
31 members in.
Now Menderes has been making the
same mistake that his Republican prede-
cessors made before him —he has failed
to treat a flea-like Opposition, which
has been steadily growing-up, like an
elephant. And the result has been that
somebody, backing Ismet Inonii, inter
alia, has gone in for a little elephant-
shooting against the Government to
restore the old warrior whose followers
were nearly wiped-out at the poll of
1950.
Turkey appears to flourish on this sort
of political diet, and it will be philo-
sophical about the fact that the Army
is holding the tambaroora in its steel
helmet pending a general election.
The Army has always done that in
crisis. Turkey is one of the few
countries in the free world that is proud
of its military power and which really
feels the need of it with Russia next-
door.
Its population has doubled in the
last 35 years, and virtually every fit man
gets a couple of years’ military training.
The one fear that the outside world
might have, since the struggle seems to
have been precipitated by a new batch
of the young and newly literate, who are
increasing far more rapidly on a per-
centage basis than the actual popula-
tion, might be that Turkey would turn
Communist.
There is no danger. Turkey has been
under pressure and threat from Russia
since the latter abrogated the Soviet-
Turkish non-aggression pact in 1945. But
it is probably the one country in the
world that has no visible Communists.
Dynamite on a Slow Fuse
Liquor-reform legislation in Victoria
finds Labor and the Country party even
more scared than the Liberals. When the
Bolte Government's modest amendments
reached the Assembly both Labor and
the C.P. voted against them.
Both protested against undue haste,
although nobody who has been familiar
with the Victorian licensing situation
would have thought that there had been
too little time between 1919 and 1960
to think about some more small improve-
ments. Labor, in addition, argued that


there was a class-bias in the amend-
ments.
The amendments, which don’t touch
six-o’clock closing, provide mainly for
more restaurant-licences, the obliteration
of the wine-saloon, a new “supper-
licence” for hotels, longer “periods of
grace” for drinks with meals, and more
flexibility in licensed hours for some
clubs.
The Government got them through the
Assembly. They may not get through the
Legislative Council, where a combined
Labor-C.P. vote could block them.
Volunteer Spirit
Unionism isn’t compulsory in Victoria ;
there seems to be no need to make it a
legal requirement when other methods are
so simple, direct, effective, and apparently
irresistible.
The Transport Workers’ Union cam-
paign for full membership started last
week with the turning-back from the Mel-
bourne docks by union organisers of
trucks whose drivers couldn’t show a
union ticket. Without this their trucks
would not be unloaded. They were
directed to the union office, and if they
came back with a membership-ticket
everything was in order.
When this campaign for “voluntary”
unionism has run its course on the docks
it will be taken up in the railway freight-
yards. Railway unionists there will sup-
port it as the maritime unions supported
it on the docks.
There seems to have been no protest.
It is, after all, perfectly clear that truck-
drivers are free to choose not to join
the union, and that the only discrimina-
tion against non-members is that their
goods won’t move.
New Plan for Sydney
[Ky M. H. Ellis]
Whoever conceived it, the new plan for
the heart of Sydney, Australia's largest
and oldest city, is excellent, and should
satisfy everybody.
It provides a maximum of office-space
and a maximum of air-space and at the
same time preserves most of the historic
buildings which should be preserved for
the character they give to their surround-
ings and their unique associations.
No other country in the world possesses
buildings like the central portion of Par-
liament House, originally a surgeon’s
barrack to the old Rum Hospital, which
successively was the town home of
D’Arcy Wentworth and his son William
Charles, the home of the nation’s first
courts presided over by a professional
lawyer, the beginnings of corporate
finance in which the Bank of New South
Wales was founded, and the birthplace
of responsible Government.
It is the oldest public building (begun
1810, in use 1814), the first solid enough
to endure for the ages, and in age it
beats its companion surgeon’s barrack,
which will flank it on the southern side
of the new Civic Square at the head of
Martin Place, by a whisker in antiquity
—it was the home of Redfern, pioneer of
vaccination and of private medical prac-
tice, and was also the first mint in Aus-
tralia.
St. James’s is the oldest church in
Sydney, its first service held at the begin-
ning of 1822 before its roof was com-
plete, so that Governor Macquarie could
worship in it before he left Sydney, dts
spire was put on in 1823-24, and it has
been reconditioned and rebricked. The
broches added to stay-up Greenway’s
graceful tower in the 1890 s do not im-
prove it. But it is still an ornament to
the city, with many historic associations.
In these days it is also the chapel of the
N. S. Wales and A.C.T. Group of the
Order of St. Michael and St. George—
the only group of a British order of
chivalry which holds an official service
outside the British Isles. Its service this
year, attended by the Governor-General,
a new member, and the State Governor
will take place next Sunday.
The cluttered old Convict Barracks,
begun in 1817 and first used in May,
1819, is now used as district courts. It
is the first''substantial building on the
continent put up by a good architect,
and it is esteemed an architectural trea-
sure beyond price by the profession.
The only ancient building in the
affected area which will not be preserved
and the status and appearance of which
will not be improved by the changes
proposed is Greenway’s old Court
House, which is embedded in the main
Supreme Court buildings, that curious
mixture of styles and architectual periods
—partly of the 1860 s and later —which is
to be demolished to make way for a park,
leaving St. James’s in its originally
planned isolation.
Its dome, which used to be a land-
mark, is now hidden except from above.
Its lovely interior staircase will be pre-
served and probably re-erected in the new
courts in King Street. It is the last
Greenway staircase —something to be
saved at any cost.
Something must be lost, but in the new
Sydney plan, which owes much to the
personal interest in history of Premier
Heffron and Mr. Maher, the Speaker of
the Legislative Assembly, nothing of
value has been sacrificed and a great deal
has been gained.
It will give the city a real focus, and
it should release a good deal of Govern-
ment-occupied land in other streets for
commercial and civic building.
Timber v. Water
With “Keep our water pure” as a
rallying-cry, it is easy in Melbourne to
raise opposition to any proposals for
logging in the catchment-areas. The
Bolte Government, in the circumstances,
would need to be pretty game to give
effect to the recommendation of the Par-
liamentary all-party State Development
Committee which, cutting across party
lines, decided by four votes to two in
favor of logging, with safeguards, in the
Victorian catchments.
The Cabinet was yet to consider the
committee’s recommendation when a
special meeting of the Board of Works
—consisting of representatives of the
councils in the Melbourne metropolitan
area —voted 36 to 1 in favor of a protest
to Bolte against logging in its catchment
areas. Any suggestion of hazarding the
deservedly renowned purity of the Mel-
bourne water-supply to permit logging
in the catchments, regardless of safe-
guards, unlooses the furies.
There is not a very ready hearing, in
this environment, for the voice of the
Victorian division of the Institute of
Foresters. This body describes itself as
the only large Australian organisation
of professional foresters. It temperately
asserts that the State Development Com-
mittee is right, and that it is both neces-
sary and safe to make the forest catch-
ments yield both timber and water.
It doesn’t believe that logging would
require the chlorination of the water-
supply. But people with a more effective
political say are quickly supported when
they assert that it would.
More Censorship?
Dr. H. R. Gough, Primate of Aus-
tralia and Anglican Archbishop of
Sydney, has been having a controversy
with some of the dailies about censor-
ship. At a press conference he stated
that he “believed in breadth in literature,”
but was opposed to “the perversion and
filth which is creeping into it.”
Since, as Sydney “Herald” replied,
everybody is opposed to perversion and
filth, or to what the “Herald” called
“commercial pornography,” it is possible
that the whole controversy is about
nothing. It depends on what specific
books Dr. Gough had in mind as filthy
and perverted, and this was not stated.
But it is also possible that, as a com-
parative newcomer to this country, Dr.
Gough is not fully aware of the absurdi-
ties of censorship here in the past which
have made all Australian intellectuals
for ever hostile to any attempts to rein-
force the system.
Among our own books banned in the
past were Norman Lindsay’s Redheap and
(still banned in N. S. Wales) Lawson
Glassop’s fine novel of Tobruk, We Were
the Rats. Among outstanding modern
works banned was Joyce’s Ulysses; and
among banned classics were Moll
Flanders, the Decameron and The
Golden Ass of Apuleius.
Recent books that have been banned,
such as Lolita, The Catcher in the Rye
(afterwards released) and Brendan
Behan’s Borstal Boy (now available in
a ridiculous expurgated edition) are not
quite in the same category. Nevertheless
they represent part of the contemporary
development of literature, of which an
increased freedom in discussing sex is
only one aspect. And that is the real
and crucial danger of censorship—that
it thwarts the development of the human
mind and, when our own books are
banned, the development of the Austra-
lian mind.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
IN the game of bowls it was
obvious that the elder of two women,
was coming second-best. She was not
being helped by a group of youths watch-
ing over the fence and giving a running
commentary on the game, until she lit a
cigarette and was met with: “Young
girls shouldn’t smoke. I’ll tell y’ mother.”
Her game improved tremendously.—
“Zabra.”
$ $ $
“Teev Ewer”: Bob Hope had Joan
Caulfield as guest-artist on his TV-show,
and she began reminiscing about a film
in which they appeared together in 1940.
Said Joan, “Little did we think then
that 20 years later we’d be working
together on a TV-programme.” Cracked
Bob, “Woman, we were working on a
TV-programme then, bub we didn’t know
it.” They weren’t the only unconscious
slaves of TV, and certainly not the first.
Charles Dickens wrote a TV-Western
in 1861. He called it Great Expectations
and sited it in England, but that didn’t
stop it from turning-up a few weeks ago
as an instalment of “Wagon Train,” com-
plete with Magwitch, Pip, Miss Faver-
sham and Estella caravanning along the
Western trail, with hostile and friendly
Indians thrown-in for good measure.
When R L. Stevenson collaborated with
Lloyd Osborne in 1892 to write The
Wrecker he set the action in San Fran-
cisco’s Barbary Coast. What he didn’t
know was that he was really writing an
episode for “Maverick.”
“Sister Ellell”: Meeting-up with a lady
who keeps her eye on the lassies who
have served a sentence, or been before
the court, I said, “How are you making-
out with the young ladies?” She replied:
“All right, 1 s’pose . . . although 1 often
don’t know where they are. Except to-
day, of course.” So I weighed-in, and
came the answer, “The American war-
ships have just docked!”
+*♦
“Artie”: During First - aid Week in
Brisbane, chemists were featuring first-
aid kits and material in their window
displays. One suburban chemist’s inter-
“Well, some people LIKE to sing under the shower
pretation of first aid was a comprehensive
display of babies’ feeding-bottles.
❖ ❖ ❖
‘‘Bill Payton”: “Kate’s” par (B.
20/4/’6O) on Hal Gye’s illustrations in
The Sentimental Bloke reminds me.
Having known “Den” in the days before
The Bloke hit the bookstalls it was no
trick at all for me to get him to auto-
graph two copies of that first edition.
One went to my kid half-sister in S.A.
Her mother, one of the old school, took
a horrified glance at Hal’s lovely kewpies
and consigned the book to the kitchen
stove: “I’m not going to have that book
in this house.” My copy, still in good
shape, came to New Guinea with me
some 36 years later. Not realising jusf
how voracious the New Guinea termite
can be I foolishly left my case of books
on the floor of a shed for three weeks,
and then found that about a third of
them had been converted almost to con-
fetti —covers and all. Luckily, a first
edition of The Glugs of Gosh, and a
copy each of Backblock Ballads and
Ginger Mick, escaped their ravages. So
disappeared two signed copies of The
Bloke. I wonder how many there are
left.
♦j,
“Settler”: The reviewer’s remark in
New Recordings (B. 4/5/’6O) that Johnny
Horton’s “Sink the Bismarck” has echoes
of his “Battle of New Orleans” is a
reminder that in just a year a wheel has
turned full circle. “The Battle of N. 0.”
was first heard in Australia in May last
year. Whatever may have caused the
spark of resentment which fired the train
(“Monty’s” memoirs?) the fact is that
it was only the first of a series of
ditties celebrating British humiliations at
the hands of the
irresistible Yankees.
Down with the
British! “Soldiers
Jay,” “Road to
Shalimes” and “Ten
Thousand Drums”
were all in that vein.
After the orgy of
retrospective gloat-
ing came the sober
reflection that the
contestants have
long since been
close allies, so by
way of a square-off
we were assured that
“Uncle Sam and
Big John Bull Ain’t
Gonna Fight No
M o’ ” (“W e’v e
licked the Kaiser
and the Fuehrer,
just to name a
few.”). And now—
the Royal Navy
does it again!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Murray Swag-
man”: Re Bill
Kraft, g.-m. of
Drouin butter-
factory (B.
27/4/’6O) —in my
time at Drouin, Bill was much
better known as a pianist than as
a bowler. He was just too young
for War I, but was a regular attender
at R.S.L. socials as a musician. On a
very successful smoke-night the Drouin
Hall became so warm that it was decided
to adjourn to the open air. Then a pro-
cession started up Prince’s Highway,
headed by a couple of banjos, a violin,
an accordion and an old drum. Bill
Kraft was leading as drum-major, swing-
ing his staff in the approved manner. It
gave Drouin’s old women of both sexes
something to talk about for three months.
When the caretaker cleaned-up the hall
next morning a long rest was missing
from the billiard-room. Rumor has it
TRANSISTOR-RADIOS
“In Melbourne a 21-year-old train-passenger
was fined £5 for letting a transistor-radio blare
rock-and-roll on a 20-mile journey. N. S. Wales
Railways may prosecute similar offences,”
Misses and Misters
Working transistors
Loudly in buses and trains
Enough to provoke the squares
Minding their own affairs
' Soon may be fined for their pains.
Government rolling-stock
Can’t stand the extra shock,
Rocking and rolling along,
Trains’ rock and buses’ roll
Take a sufficient toll,
Needing no help from a song.
Poor rollers and rockies,
Fined, while disk-jockeys
And singers wail, bellow and joke,
Just as, at racecourses,
The riders and horses
Get by while the punters go broke!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


that it was found under Bill Kraft’s bed,
but Bill has never admitted it.
$ ♦> *7
Sometimes I wonder if promin-
ent businessmen and lawyers
know much about business. After the
late Henri Verbrugghen had left Sydney
to take charge of the Minneapolis
Orchestra a meeting of orchestral sub-
scribers was held in Sydney Town Hall
vestibule to see what could be done to
carry-on the N. S. Wales State Orchestra;
it was presided-over by the chairman of
directors of a huge retail concern, the
place bristled with directors of other
firms, and one of Sydney’s best-known
solicitors was there to advise. The first
motion was proposed, seconded and
carried unanimously with no demur from
business-brains or the law. Then the
solicitor woke up and pointed out that,
as the meeting had carried the motion,
it had automatically brought an end to
itself. I’ve never seen so many hopping-
mad people, many of whom had come
from miles away (in those days cars were
few and far between) and had given up
their afternoon to attend a meeting which
lasted approximately seven minutes. —-
“Maitri.”
+3*-
“0.W.W.”: Except for a brief term
when the Greek owner was ill, the Hot
Dog restaurant in Wellington (N.Z.) has
been open day and night continuously
for 30 years. Now the cafe is to close-
down by Supreme Court order granting
possession to the owners of the'premises,
a firm of warehousemen.
*** *X*
“Bo”: With our pup about to cele-
brate her first Empire Night (sorry, I’d
forgotten we’d given it away—Common-
wealth Night), I bent a compassionate
glance on her as the first of the fire-
works began, for every pooch I’ve had
right back to kid-dom invariably made
a dive, whimpering, for the nearest
shelter when that dread sound hit its
ears. A spot of radar-tracking with
cocked ears was the only reaction to the
first burst, then she placidly resumed the
bone-interring. Came a welkin-ripping
“Whoosh! ” as a giant rocket sped
upwards from next-door —excavations
continued without pause; she seemed
grateful for the pallid light the descend-
ing shower shed on her work. An out-
size hunger’s detonation had less effect
than the rolled-up paper displayed when
her misdeeds call for a little discipline.
Brilliant flower-pots and whizzing
catherine-wheels evoked looks that went
close to the blase. Then a kid lit one
of the most innocuous things in the pyro-
technical armory: a bunch of crackers
—it took that pup about ssec. to dash
to the back door, nose it open, and dive
under the bed.
*7 *7 &
“Jock”: The gas-industry, considered,
when Edison got going with electrical
gadgets, to be dying, is showing mighty
fighting-back qualities in N.S.W. Gas
sales in Cowra last year increased by
2,000,000 cubic - feet on the previous
year’s output, and £32,000 is being used
to install additional units ; Cessnock has
opened a gasworks costing £500,000 to
supply an area as far away as Lake
Macquarie; Dubbo is having another
Gas Week, so successful was the last.
Bowral reports a 10.8 per cent, rise in
output; Lithgow will not raise the gas-
rate, even though it is necessary to add
£6500 to the loan-money required by its
new works; and Armidale gas under-
taking’s income is up 20 per cent, on the
previous year, with a trading-surplus
likely to be £5OOO. All this in the face
of keen competition from electric-power
producers. Undoubtedly colliery mecha-
nisation has cut coal costs, and the result
is flowing into gas-production.
“Jaybee”: At a course for training-
officers a trainee was looking for the
“I know I said I'd share a shack with you —but I didn't
think you'd have the HIDE!”
solution to his particular problem ; the
screeching of chalk on the blackboard
when he was illustrating a point “put
his teeth on edge ” Various methods of
chalk-writing were explained and demon-
strated—use smaller pieces, wet the
chalk, etc. “It’s still there,” said the
trainee ; “that’s what puts my teeth on
edge.” “Then,” exploded the lecturer,
“I suggest that you put your teeth in
your pocket before lecturing.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“C.A.L.”: Many in the office-block
wonder why the youthful - looking
middle-aged lift-driver is content with
his ups and downs; powerfully built
and healthy, his only disability appears to
be a slight limp. Not well paid, he owns
a modern home and car, acquired
through judicious investments recom-
mended' by businessmen-passengers, and
makes a fair amount more from short-
story writing. Hours spent riding be-
tween the basement and the 10th floor
give him plenty of time to think-up plots,
etc. A group of clerks and typists were
having him on about his comfortable
job, profits from shares and proficiency
with the pen. “What do you have to
do, Jo,” one of them asked, “to get a
position like this with its sideline oppor-
tunities?” Joe raised a trouser-leg: “Go
to a war, and have your leg shot off,”
he said.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
ttr , „ . , . r
B f m : She had ,' ,ved m a . hoste for
t he , tw .° y 'T/ bed been hare „ £ ™ na
' the*™cesTvto save
™ uch ° C ?f, °* , e . 5 ,y , *.° sav J
?„ e ft” 0 " ey ’ . We tO , ok , her £ ?. r a dnve a " d
invited her home to tea. What are we
having 9” s h e asked “Can I choose?”
n , g ' . t \ I
? he * as told to |° ah f ad ’ So th f
W as thisaway: Tomato soup. A fried
egg, with the fat tossed-up on the top
of it so the yolk would set properly but
no.t be too hard. Fried tomato, fried
until it fell to pieces and there was just
juice ; she couldn’t abide lumpy tomato.
Tinned peaches and cream. Tea. She
hovered over the frying-pan as her egg
was cooked and pronounced the result
just right; asked if the tomato could be
squashed a bit more, and at last declared
all in order. As she sat down and looked
at the plate in front of her she said
“Coo! Egg on Saturdee! I can’t believe
it. We get one egg a week at the hostel
and that’s on Sunday, but to have an
egg on Saturdee, that is something. Just
wait till I tell the others!”
+J+ H>t+
“Junior G.P.”: That soldierly but
not-so-sober type at the Sydney Cenotaph
(B. 11/5/’6O) could have been the same
bloke ... I was on reception-duty at a
Repat. general hospital; every inch the
half-colonel, he dipped his lid to me,
a comparative stripling, and said apolo-
getically, “I hope I’m not bothering you,
sir!” Then, after a brief reconnaissance,
he teetered, with perfect fore-and-aft


control, to the nearest vacant space on
the form reserved for those seeking
admittance. He cast-up beside Bluey,
whose only fault is a mistaken belief
that the pain of his gunshot-wound,
heroically sustained, is alleviated by
benders. Of poor Bluey the half-colonel
type inquired in honeyed tones: “Do
you object to my presence, sir?” Bluey,
already stricken with the shakes, and
possibly remembering his three - days’
status as a lance-jack, was completely
demoralised. All he could do was to
reply, “Nobshections ’tall mate!” The
courteous inquisitor was mollified, but
only temporarily. After a few seconds’
deliberation on the implications of the
reply, he rose to stand four-squarely at
attention before Bluey and asked in even
more courteous tones: “And would you
like to object?” At that stage I inter-
vened to take Bluey away, as I assigned
the ultra-courteous h.-c. to the most
junior junior receiving-officer. They've
all got to learn.
“M’Lou”: Australians, it is estimated,
throw away £750,000-worth of milk-
“ Well , why not let me have a bash at supporting her for a couple of years?
Then if it doesn't Work-out We'll call the whole thing off."
bottle tops a year. To divert some of
this wasted cash and help the Food for
Peace Campaign a Horsham (Vic.)
youth-organisation has distributed to the
householders of that city plastic-bags in
which to collect their clean used milk-
bottle tops.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Shawn”: A friend maintains that in
the United States a pedestrian is only
a motorist who can’t find his car ; and
in fact, there's hardly a tram or bus into
Sydney in the morning or out in the
afternoon without its quota of motorists
who have parked their cars three and
four miles out of the city.
The old D.H.82 (the Tiger Moth)
can glide like a bird I saw it
happen when a super.-spreading Tiger
lost its propeller with 1000 ft. of air under
it. It came down in a gentle turn, missing
power-lines and a fence by inches, to
land in the paddock below only to
wreck its undercarriage. Yes, it still had
the super, aboard. Helping to dismantle
it, though I haven’t flown for years, the
odd feeling, that most pilots know, re-
turned. This wasn’t a machine ; it was
part of me, and I part of it. Not until
we had removed the wings did it become
inanimate, a soulless, shattered thing!
“O-Twit.”
♦♦♦ *x* ❖
“Postscript”: Annual rental on the set
when those first telephone-services were
connected at Parramatta in 1894 (B.
18/5/’6O) was between £4 and £5. With
an average life of around 20 years an
instrument, some idea of the return to
the P.M.G. in rentals from subscribers
of long-standing may be gauged. Inci-
dentally, Sydney G.P.O. has the original
contracts with some of the earliest sub-
scribers, drawn-up in beautiful copper-
plate script in the best legal tradition.
I saw a file (now a massive bundle)
which had been disinterred during the
process of dealing with a complaint by
the current lessee of the line, the original
subscriber’s grandson.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“H.W.D.”: People waiting for trains
on a Sydney station were vastly
amused by the antics of the D.M.R.
workmen. The day was bleak ; half a
gale of icy wind blew in from the west,
but that didn’t deter these lads ; under
the benevolent eye of the foreman, they,
clad in the new yellow oilskins complete
with sou’wester (and looking like space-
men), threw water over each other with
gay abandon. They were supposed to
be scrubbing the white railings, and
occasionally the steel brush did its job,
but as the train left, one poured a bucket
of water over another’s head —much to
the delight of a few schoolboys, although
it left us wondering whether the boys
could have acted as silly.
*X* *t* ❖
“Doric”: They were in a bus discuss-
ing the prevalence of pilUtaking. “They
are so habit-forming,” she said, “and
people get that way they can’t do with-
out them. Oh, well, here’s my stop. 1
haven’t had any tea since breakfast” (it
was then midday) “and I'm beginning
to get a splitting headache. I’ll be a
nervous wreck if I don’t get a cup right
away.”
* ♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: On returning to scale on
a winner at Randwick a jockey didn’t
know where the winner’s stall was. As a
notoriously ill-starred punter, the incident
disturbs me. Perhaps the riders of the
horses I back don’t know where the
winning-post is?
♦> • <* ❖
“N.S.”: Jovial proprietor of an open-
air cafe in Perth has a sign on a
nearby tree: “The food here is practi-
cally inedible. However, this is offset by
the smallness of the portions served.”
A glance at the customers indicated that
they were doing pretty well.
THE MAJOR RISK
“The magistrate, fining defendant £5, said
that driving with one arm around a girl's waist
was a highly dangerous practice.” —Court
report.
The arm that you park around her waist
Is a safety-belt, son, that’s misplaced.
Though seeming enthralling,
With hazard appalling
It’s possible you could be faced.
Oh, heed the wise words of his Nibs!
Observe, now: The bus in front jibs;
You jerk-stop. Don’t mind that —•
Your trouble’s to find that
Your tensed arm has busted her ribs!
A session of mush is all right,
But when your hot-rod is in flight
Your grip is much looser
On life if you choose, sir,
To hold your fair passenger tight.
Don’t treat the Beak’s warning as blah
Of a joy-killing Jeremiah.
This chance please envision :
You’ll have a collision,
If not with a car, with her Pa !
That soft-yielding midriff-expanse
Is temptation you just shouldn’t chance ;
Or, if you must, do it
Where you will least rue it —
At barbecue, beach or the dance.
But don’t grab a dame when you perch
Behind wheel, or you’ll surely besmirch
Safety-record. Come, heed you !
Such arm-play could lead you
To running straight into a church!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The Comrades certainly have their
own classifications; advertise-
ments invite merchants interested in
importing East German shotguns to
apply to the “Cultural Wares” section
of the East German State Export Depart-
ment. —“Rimfire.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Zabra”: There’s one beach I’ve
always avoided ; too rocky and shelly
and with no surf worth mentioning. It’s
been subdivided and is selling rapidly.
These days the beach is “safe for surfing
and free of undertow, with miles of
glorious shell-sands and safe rock-pools
for the children.”
❖ *> ❖
“Jasby”: School-holidays over, my
nine-year-old daughter was in the normal
state of rebellion against resumption of
lessons. School, it seemed, was not for
her. Others could have it if they liked,
but she was prepared to go through life
without it. Arguments as to the value of
education left her unconvinced. She
didn't want it. And, anyway, she didn't
see why “they” should make people go
to school. At this stage parental tactics
stooped to a low level. She was reminded
that not only was education compulsory,
but that parents could be fined if their
children didn't attend school. Convinced?
Not a bit of it. The argument produced
only scorn. “Well, that’s the stupidest
thing of the lot. They call it free educa-
tion and then they make you pay if you
don’t go!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Aronui”: Those Sydney newspaper-
photos of a tram rammed into the side
of a doubledecker bus near Central sug-
gested more than just another accident.
The tram was one of the last survivors
of a fast-dying tribe ; the bus one of
the rising New Men. One imagines the
tram clenching its fenders, tossing its
pole and charging, with a muttered “Just
one before 1 go. Just one!”
♦Jf *J4 fj*
“Bottom”: Car-stickers have surely
reached the ultimate in foolery. Saw a
Holden outside the pub bearing an im-
pressive sticker: “Official, Common-
wealth of Australia” —in large print.
Joe, the barber's assistant, emerged from
the bar and drove the vehicle away.
Speculating on Joe’s- good luck I got a
better view of the label when passing his
residence. Alas, Joe was still one of the
common herd. After “official” was “tax-
payer” in very small letters.
❖ * ❖
“Mugga Way”: Two senior Israeli
diplomats told a couple of stories in
Sydney; one about the lion which
escaped from Jerusalem zoo and
wandered into the public-service offices,
where it ate a public servant daily for
luncheon. No one noticed anything out
of the way until the lion made a dreadful
mistake—he ate the girl who made the
cups of tea! The other was of the prize
bull in the kibbutz, the co-operative
village, which gained such a reputation
for fertility that a truck arrived from
the Department of Agriculture to take
it to the Research Institute. The village
was disappointed when a few weeks later
l e bull was returned with a curt note
La™fL r nTY a t K 0 \ WaS a Un, o, tlfled ' W , ha !
,h?K'” H,h h e r". S
Hot ’k , J" S' , ' d ',? n 1
h tt ’ W s“
, ? e !?. or ’ 11 v ' cn ! K 'y
made me a public servant there just
any incen ive.
*** ♦♦♦ ♦+♦
“Pat”: Our men's bowling-club
stepped gallantly into the van of pro-
gress and held a dance on the number-
one green. The only stipulation was
that women should wear flatties. Wives,
daughters and girl-friends went off
grumbling to buy flatties. On the night
of the dance, not a cloud in the sky, a
good orchestra and the green smoother
than a billiard-table, ladies’ feet tapped
impatiently beneath the tables. But
when it came to the point the bowlers
simply couldn’t face such desecration,
and retired to the bar. Only the non-
dancing mother, who had come along
in high-heels, exulted: “The girls have
been nagging me for flatties for months
and now I’ll be able to pick up a pair
for each of them cheap. The town rag
will be full of ads. next week: ‘Only
once worn and not even trodden-on'!”
* *> *>
“S.K.”: Ringing-up a friend after
dinner at night used to be an uncom-
plicated affair: he simply put down book
or paper or turned the radio down, and
didn’t care how long the conversation
went on. Since TV the occasion calls
for some niceties of thinking. Is he stuck
into a session yet? It is, say, 25-to-8,
so another half-hour spasm has just
started. It probably depends what’s on,
and on his taste. If he’s a Western-addict
and “Maverick” is on he’ll curse you
f or ringing; if it’s a crime-thriller and
he likes vicariously to enjoy a spot of
mayhem or murder he'll also take the
mm view. On the other hand, you may
he dotng him a good turn if it’s one
of those drearily sentimental domestic
.. come d,e t " inhabited by kids with
voices like a hacksaw .going through
galvanised-iron. / ring about 3min.
before either the hour or half-hour. The
last few minutes of a show and the first
few of the next-in-line will certainly be
devoted to ads ; so that between natters
about soap-powders and singlets, per-
fumes and porridges, girdles and gaspers,
I am able to say my say and let him get
back to his viewing and I to mine,
hoping that for the next hour some idiot
doesn’t pick up the receiver and dial my
number!
♦♦♦ *?*
“Murray Swagman”: There was also
a Jewish Battalion (B. 27/4/’6O) from
New York in 1918. They called them
“The Jordan J-Jighlanders.”
❖ ♦+♦ ♦♦♦
“Cece”: Motorist rang a garage and
the manager assured him that he would
see that the job was done with a mini-
mum of delay. Later in the day the
motorist called at the garage, located
his car and started to urge on the
character in overalls doing the job. Get-
ting no results, he went in search of
the boss to complain, and was re-directed
to the car. Yes, character in overalls
was the boss, one of those do-a-bit-your-
self types hell-bent (till then) on getting
the job done in a minimum of time.


POLITICAL POINTS
Three parties are happy at the result
of Saturday’s election in Queensland.
The Nicklin-Morris Government is back
for a second term with both the Country
and Liberal parties slightly increased in
strength, while the A.L.P. has won
several seats from the Q.L.P.
In the old Parliament the Government
held 42 seats (Country party 24 and
Liberals 18); Duggan’s A.L.P. held 20
and Gair’s Q.L.P. 11. There were two
Independents. In the new House,
enlarged by three to 78 members, the
Government looks like having at least
45 (Country party 25 and Libs. 20);
A.L.P., 26 ; Q.L.P., 4 ; Independents, 3.
In several seats the margin is very
slight and later counting could change
the position In particular the Q.L.P.'s
already small rump could be even further
reduced.
Former Premier Gair was decisively
defeated in South Brisbane, the seat going
to the A.L.P. Other Q.L.P. members
to lose their seats were former Lands
Minister T. A. Foley, H. R. Gardner
(Rockhampton), C. G. McCathie
(Haughton), A. J. Smith (Carpentaria).
Colin Bennett, who beat Gair, is a
barrister, an ex-R.A.A.F. man and the
leader of the A.L.P. in the Brisbane City
Council.
Frank Forde, long-time M.H.R. and
short-time Prime Minister, is having yet
another close struggle with C.P. mem-
ber Lonergan for the Flinders seat. On
Monday he was leading by 86, but later
returns are expected to favor Lonergan.
Alderman Pilbeam, Mayor of Rock-
hampton, brought off an unusual feat
to win the Rockhampton South seat for
the Liberal party. He defeated two
sitting members —H. R. Gardner
(Q.L.P.), member for Rockhampton in
the old Parliament, and J. Clark (A-L.P.),
member for Fitzroy.
• •
Both Independent members of the old
Parliament won again on Saturday.
T. Aikens, who formerly held Munding-
burra, won Townsville South, and A.
Coburn retained Burdekin. A third
Independent now joins them. This is
Alderman J.. E. Houghton, who beat
candidates from three parties and another
Independent to win the new seat Red-
cliffe.
• •
Even the electronic listening-device
which the Russians put in the United
States seal they presented to the American
embassy is old stuff. As he tells in his
book Full Circle, Anthony Eden at the
time of the Geneva Conference five years
ago was compelled to abandon meetings
in the rooms which the British Foreign
Secretaries had always used because
“gadgets never thought of when I was
in Geneva before” made it unsafe to
hold a private conversation in his own
sitting-room, unless- somebody “beat-on
tables” to confuse unauthorised elec-
tronic listeners.
• *
There’s interest for South Australians
in the report that the tidal wave from
the Chilian earthquake exposed on a
beach near Auckland (N.Z.) the wreck
of H.M.S. Buffalo. This was the ship
from which Governor Hindmarsh landed
at Holdfast Bay in 1836 to found the
colony of South Australia. She was
wrecked in Mercury Bay, near Auckland,
in 1840.
• •
Nelson Rockefeller, Governor of New
York, who has several times stated that
he would not be a candidate for the
Republican nomination for President, has
announced that he would accept a draft
nomination. The meaning of this is that
he won’t stage an open campaign for
the nomination but will accept it if the
Republican convention chooses him.
Recently Richard Nixon has seemed a
certainty as Republican choice, but
Rockefeller’s change of front could make
quite a difference. Nixon will now be
on his toes right up to convention-time.
• •
"Cield-Marshal Montgomery let him-
self go in Peking—after a few days in
China he elected to go back and tell the
British it was a peaceloving country, with-
out war-lords, full of happy people ;
that Formosa is part of China and that
Chou should come and stay with him in
England. Monty is about the most
successful case of brainwashing on
record. Any moment now he may
announce that Khrushchev is a primi-
tive Methodist.
• •
T\oubts about the pronunciation of
Khrushchev’s name are now settled.
Judging by the volcanic threats of force
which explode against his little neighbors
every few hours the accent is on the
KHRUSH. ,
• •
Dick Casey’s maiden speech in vthe
Lords was in line with his career — he
was the first British Commonwealth
Ambassador to fly his own aircraft,
which he was still flying a few months
ago. So it was natural that he should be
the first new peer to make a speech on
international civil aviation —which has
given him a flying mileage any com-
mercial pilot might envy.
• •
[From Canberra]
Ansett-A.N.A. chief Reg Ansett caught
Civil Aviation Minister Paltridge on the hop
when he announced from New Guinea he was
ordering six French aircraft for use in his
newly acquired New Guinea operations.
Firstly, he had received no authority from
the Government to order the aircraft —the
turbo-prop 24-passenger Broussards —and
secondly, where does he really intend to use
them?
Ansett stated they were to replace DC3 air-
craft, but the only DC3’s operating in New
Guinea are those used by T.A.A. and Man-
dated Airlines on the internal routes in the
Territory. As Ansett has no rights for internal
flights in New Guinea the question of where
he will use them looms very large.
It is being rumored in Canberra that Ansett
is trying to take-over Mandated Airlines and
operate in direct competition with on
the internal routes. He certainly can’t con-
template using the Broussards —with a 600-
mile’ range—on the trunk route from the
mainland to New Guinea, so possibly the
rumors are based on good information.
It will be interesting to see Government
reaction to any attempt to take-over Mandated
Airlines.
“Now don’t go dumping any of our soil in the street, Peter. Remember, we
paid £3000 for this block of land!”


Ike’s speech on the Summit failure was
only partly jammed when it was
beamed to the U.S.S.R. in Russian. The
preamble, which contained the admissions
about U.S. flights over Russia, was let
through the explanations were cut-off.
The full speech in English was allowed
in, but that was in the early hours of
the morning when most Russians were
asleep^ —or should have been.
0 0
C
Cabinetmakers are busy again on
Macquarie Street, remaking Heffron’s
Ministry for him. There seems to be
general agreement that Heffron will
give-up his Education portfolio, but less
unanimity as to who will inherit it. One
group seem§ to think it should go to
Wetherell so that he can pass the Con-
servation job on to Enticknap, the real
purpose being to ease that Minister out
of Transport for being too outspoken
to the trammies and busmen. Transport,
says this school of thinkers, could be
given to Deputy Premier Renshaw, who
is finding it hard to fill-in the day at
the Treasury.
A rival school would leave Wetherell
to his conserving and make Abe Landa
Minister for Education, his Housing
portfolio being considered just made-to-
measure for Assistant Minister Mannix.
The former plan would presumably mean
that Heffron would assume the Trea-
surership himself, reverting to the cus-
tom of Cahill, McGirr and many other
Premiers. The second alternative seems
to leave him with the Premiership only.
• 0
The arrest in Israel of German war-
criminal Adolph Eichmann, reputed
killer-in-chief of six-million Jews, has
been followed by a report that Hitler’s
deputy Martin Bormann is still alive.
Missing at the war s end, he was tried
in absentia at the Nuremburg war-crimes
trials and sentenced to death.
0®
IMicklin must have been reading
“Century.” Referring to Whitlam’s
entry into the Queensland election cam-
paign he said that he came as “a would-
be Labor bogy-man in spats.”
Spats or not, Whitlam’s contribution
to the campaign wasn’t exactly brilliant.
He told a women's rally in Brisbane that
in some respects Queenslanders had a
poorer start in life than people in other
States. He had apparently forgotten that
all but a tiny percentage of Queens-
landers under the age of 45 had their
start in life under a Labor Government.
Whitlam said further that Queens-
land’s great difficulty was that develop-
ment of the country had been left to
private enterprise and that what was
wanted was more Government invest-
ment “you will have to wait many
generations for development by private
enterprise.” Around about the time
Whitlam was born Queensland was
enjoying an orgy of Government invest-
ment and the ultimate losses on State
cattle-stations, State meatshops, State
fisheries, State pubs and other State
enterprises reached such staggering
figures that even the Labor Government
became jeluctant to repeat the experi-
ment.
• •
Discussing one aspect of the phone-
tapping legislation, a Labor Senator said
it was “sugar-coating for a poisoned
dart.” Perhaps he meant that eaves-
dropping dulls the edge of husbandry.
• ®
“Jock”: More and more Australian
organisations are celebrating their cen-
tenary, the latest being the Miners’
Federation, which had its genesis at a
meeting of mine-workers in Graves’
Paddock, Waratah, near Newcastle, on
May 24, 1860. Men were present from
the Coal and Copper colliery, Borehole
pit and the Tomago mine. The men
from Minmi arrived behind a band,
carrying a banner reading: “United we
stand, divided we fall.” The first meeting
of the Delegate Board was held at the
Ship Inn, Newcastle, on June 4, 1860.
Incidentally, the real title of the Miners’
Federation is the Workers’ Industrial
Union of Australia.
• •
As a move against the menace of the
transistor-radio fiend who operates
in trains and public places it is suggested
that the Performing Rights Association
may take action against offenders.
There’s a difficulty, though. While most
victims of the raucous nuisances would
be glad to see the offenders booked they
could hardly swear on oath that the din
they objected to was “public entertain-
ment.”
• ®
The bigger bakers and the trade-
unions in Melbourne having got together
to stamp-out a degenerate taste for fresh
week-end bread, the forbidden loaf is
tending to become costly to anyone
caught ministering to the fad. The
Metropolitan Industrial Court fined a
bread company £l5 on a charge of
having employed bakers on a Sunday.
It also fined three bakers £3 to £5 for
their share in the offence. The three
bakers were ail New Australians. 1 his
experience of our legal insistence on the
virtues of stale week-end bread must
have given them something to write-
home about.
Bendigo looks like providing a sharp
by-election scrap. Clarey won it for
Labor against the swing m 1949 and
barely held it in 1958; his 11 years’
tenure has been Bendigo’s longest stay
in the Labor camp. Sir John Quick held
it for the first 13 years of Federation.
It then went to Labor until Billy Hughes,
seeking refuge there from West Sydney
at the height of the conscription troubles,
won it in 1917.
Labor didn't get it back until the
1929 boilover, when R. V. Keane went
in. From 1931 until Percy Clarey’s elec-
tion, it was a non-Labor seat —Brigadier
Eric Fairweather Harrison won it twice
for the U.A.P., and Major-General
George Rankin four times for the
Country party. »
Candidates for the vacancy have not
yet been chosen. Inevitably the D.L.P.
will be in the field That in itself will
be enough to make the going hard for
the A.L.P. choice.
• •
elease of the U.S. aircraft flying
slightly off-course on the Scandi-
navian-Hamburg route and chased down
on an East German aerodrome was made
by the Soviet Command. Either this
was a Russian blunder —since it departs
from the insistence that East Germany
is a sovereign State —or else it throws
light on why Khrushchev found it wise
not to raise the German question and
scuppered the Summit conference in
consequence. He could not trust the
East Germans even to hold a plebiscite
or join with West Germany in con-
ference. Like Hungary the miserable
enclave is held captive by Soviet divi-
sions, 20 of them, according to the latest
reports.
• •
An electronic brain installed at the
weapons-research establishment at Salis-
bury (S.A.) is said to be capable of
reading six novels a second. An
admirable performance, but reading at
that rate it is doubtful whether it could
really appreciate them.
• •
British Parliamentarians showed their
usual patriotic habit rarely departed
from —of getting behind their Govern-
ment in a crisis irrespective of party.
Gaitskell in the midst of the shouting
told a big Leftist-minded union that “in
the present conditions the Labor party
must continue to stand for adequate
defence and protection of the country
and deterrence of any possible aggressor
Had Nato not been formed, the
Soviet Union would have long since
dominated the whole of Europe includ-
ing Britain.” Calwell should be invited
to say the same thing to the Watersiders,
Seamen and the Federal Executive of
A.R.U.
• •
“Bet” on a Melbourne relic:
Hard as it was to get rid of Melbourne s
decrepit colonial Eastern Market —which is
coming down to make way for the Southern
Cross Hotel, dollar-backed—it is even harder
to get rid of the smaller but determined
relic that labels itself, with indulgent banter,
The Old Tin Shed.
The edifice is the property of the Post Office,
which has toyed for decades with ideas of
using it for a noble extension of the adjoining
Elizabeth Street Post Office. Proposals for
obliterating The Old Tin Shed were among
the first projects Senator A. J. McLachlan
looked into when he came hopefully into
office—in 1935. Every Postmaster-General
since has learned to say that action is some-
where around the corner.
P.M.G. Davidson seems to have entered into
the spirit of the official jest by prudently
stating that “some little time ' must elapse
before the latest plans to do away with The
Old Tin Shed can be developed.
Having already survived 55 years of ridicule
and hand-wringing, the 0.T.5., under lease to
a car-accessory firm, is still assured of long
life as one of Melbourne’s most noted
grotesques.


Personal
ITEMS
Dr. H. G. Belschner, these days a part-
time lecturer at the Universities of
Sydney and N.S.W., was awarded the
Gilruth prize at the Australian
Veterinary Association’s annual con-
ference in Sydney last week. Dr. Belsch-
ner, who got his diploma from Hawkes-
bury Agricultural College in 1915,
graduated from Sydney Uni. as a
Bachelor of Veterinary Science in 1922,
joined the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment a year later, and in 1925 became
first District Veterinary Officer for the
western district, where he was associated
with Dr. H. R. Seddon in experiments
at Nyngan and Trangie to establish
control-measures for blowfly-strike on
sheep. Awarded a doctorate of veterinary
science by Sydney University in 1936
for his thesis on the problem of the
sheep-blowfly, he was appointed Deputy
Chief of the Agricultural Department’s
Division of Animal Industry in 1942 and
was Chief of the division from 1953
until he retired in 1955. His book Sheep
Diseases and Management, first pub-
lished in 1950, has run to six editions
and been translated into several
languages.
• •
At the inaugural meeting of the
National Council of the Public Relations
Institutes of Australia, held in Melbourne
last week, Noel Griffiths, p.-r.-o. of the
Rural Bank of N.S.W., was elected presi-
dent, while for his activities in estab-
lishing the institutes he was granted the
first Fellowship. Griffiths was founda-
tion-president of the N.S.W. Chapter,
formed in 1951, and did much to pro-
mote inter-State chapters and to co-ordi-
nate them under the National Council.
• 0
Melbourne’s long-awaited new National
Gallery on the admirable site reserved
for it on the south side of the Yarra
by Prince’s Bridge is beginning to take
shape—in Europe.
Roy Grounds, who is to be the archi-
tect, and Eric Westbrook, who is the
gallery director, have a date in Florence
on June 18. Then they are going on to
Venice, Milan and Zurich on the first
stage of a three-months’ look at gallery
design and administration abroad. Mean-
while the sad old National Gallery in
Swanston Street is too small to be able
to show all of even its present treasures.
Grounds has pronounced views on the
scope and duty of modern architecture.
Westbrook has pronounced views on art
without artiness, and on the duty of a
forward-looking director to dissipate old
notions that, for the general public, a
gallery is a place to go to get in out of
the rain.
What Grounds and Westbrook cook-
up between them could be very interest-
ing and is most unlikely to be orthodox.
William GastOn Walkley, who figured
last week in Ampol’s huge takeover
offer for H. C. Sleigh, is a notably
strong stalk in the impressive crop of
Enzedders who have done well all round
on this side of the Tasman. Born at
Otaki in 1896, and educated at Feilding
High School, he started work as a tele-
graph messenger-boy, and was then with
the Maorilanders overseas from 1916
AMPOL MAN
until the end of War I. He filled-in as
a chartered accountant from 1922 until
1935 ; then really got going, organising
Australian Motorists Petrol in Sydney
in 1936, and, to an accompaniment of
sceptical headshakes, pioneered what
developed into Ampol, the major Austra-
lian-owned oil-company, grown from an
obscure downtown office, with two sales-
men and a typist, to its present empire
with assets worth over £3O million and
40,000 stockholders. It amalgamated with
Alba Petroleum, Melbourne, in 1945 to
form the present co.
Walkley (here pictured), who has pro-
moted many projects (including the
present search for oil in W.A.), com-
petitions and awards, was personally
responsible for bringing the Canada Cup
golf-championships to Australia, and,
among other special interests these days,
is general chairman of the Centenary
Building Campaign Appeal Committee
of the Royal N.S.W. Institute for Deaf
and Blind Children.
• •
Hamilton Morton Howard Sleigh, who
turned-down the Ampol offer, has a
family connection with the oil business
going back to 1913. His venturesome
father, Harold Crofton Sleigh, was
already in the import-and-export business
in Sydney in that year, when the first
Californian cargo of motor-spirit, in tins
packed in pinewood cases, arrived.
There was some difficulty about the
draft covering the shipment, and Sleigh,
snr., quickly agreeing to take it over,
found himself in the oil business. He
had established the firm’s Golden Fleece
brand-name before World War I broke.
The Sleigh family connection with
shipping goes back much further. Soon
after Harold Sleigh came to Australia
in 1888 he started barging cargoes on
the Darling and the Murray. Later he
had built in Glasgow the Cape Leeuwin
and the Cape Otway, in which Easterners
flocked to the W.A. gold-strikes.
Hamilton Sleigh remembered his
father in 1952 in naming the company’s
first ocean tanker after him. He named
the next one the Adderley Sleigh after
his great-grandfather, a captain in the
Royal Navy.
Hamilton Sleigh had already
travelled much with his lather before
he went to sea in 1915 as “a very junior
purser" —aged 19. He was in England
with the Australian Flying Corps, as a
mechanic awaiting a cadetship, when
the war ended.
His father took him into partnership
in 1924. He is now chairman and
managing-director. Hamilton Sleigh lives
handsomely in Wallace Avenue, Toorak,
and goes to town, as a magnate should,
in a chaufteured Rolls.
o •
Passing through Fremantle on the way
to join his son at Teatree Gully, near
Adelaide, 88-year-old Charles Ryan said
that he still feels young enough to start
a new life in Australia. Born in Ireland,
he was a coalminer in South Wales and
Yorkshire for 50 years before he gave-up
toil in the pits.
• •
The Rev. George William Mann, who
left last November as A.I.M. padre com-
missioned to the Sturt Patrol —west of
Bourke, Cobar and Hillston and out into
S.A. at Radium Hill —called at The
Bulletin last week on one of his rare
visits to Sydney. He was down for the
Assembly of the Presbyterian Church
of N.S.W., but had to, stay a while
longer getting repairs done to his
station-wagon. He prefers the friendly
atmosphere out west, where he finds
beauty and romance all around —he
quoted Tibooburra, particularly. There
are big changes taking place in the west,
he said ; instancing the developing of
Menindee as a tourist-resort and possibly
a place for old miners to retire to. He
had a good word, too, for the N.S.W.
Government’s scheme of land-subdivision
back o’ Bourke. Everyone seems satis-
fied, he said, and all have enough land
to run a flock big enough to give a
reasonable living.
• •
“Pip Tok”: At this year’s annual
meeting of the South African and Im-
perial Veterans’ Association in W'.A. an
attempt was made to check the average
age of the veterans. It couldn’t be done
exactly, because of veterans a.-w.-1., but
80 summers was reckoned as somewhere


near the mark, and the total number of
Boer War warriors in Westralia was
estimated at 126. Youngest present was
the association’s secretary, R. A. Mac-
Donald, of Perth, who was 75 last
March. He ran away from school, hid
himself on board a troopship in Fre-
mantle, and managed to enlist on arrival
at Durban. Most of the veterans still
look comparatively young even octo-
genarians could easily pass for 60 —but
then, the Boer War was one of strenuous
movement, which either made a man or
broke him.
• •
Anyone who has ever noted the con-
sistency of high-pitched, sing-song voices
of male songsters in Chinese opera would
probably bet that bassos in China must
be as scarce as hens’-teeth. And now—
via the U.S., which he has made his
artistic headquarters comes Yi-Kwei
Sze, with a rolling, resonant bass that
can conjure a note from somewhere
down near his boots. He has knocked
another fable for a sixer, too. Romantic
novelists have built-up the idea of the
Celestial phiz forever frozen in emotion-
less immobility ; but as Sze delineates
European song—to which he confines
himself in his recitals —hate, love, fear,
despair, anguish and like emotions show
on his face with the greatest clarity.
Yi-Kwei Sze—on his second tour for
the A.8.C., and last here in 1953—was
born in Chekiang province and started
in music at Shanghai Conservatorium.
He made his New York debut in 1947,
since when he has done regular coast-
to-coast concert and opera tours and
sung with just about every celebrated
orchestra in the U.S.
CHINESE BASSO
“Joanne”: The' welkin rang in ihe
Memorial Town Hall at Cessnock
(N.S.W.) last week, when world-famous
opera tenor Kenneth Neale was wel-
comed back to his birthplace. One of
the warmest greetings came from
students and ex-students of Cessnock
High School, of which he was captain
and champion athlete in the 1930’5.
Neate was released by the directors of
the Elizabethan Trust for the only con-
cert he's to give during his present
contract. The approach to. the Trust
was made by the Coalfields Musical and
Variety Club, but actually Neate accepted
the club’s invitation even before he left
Paris. As a boy he had taken part in
school musicals, later he won in tenor
sections at Newcastle and Sydney
Eisteddfods, _ and when he became a
policeman he was a “must” for the
N.S.W. Police Choir. In a two-year
leave of absence he toured Australia and
New Zealand for the Australian Broad-
casting Commission. After that it was
roses all the way for Ken —though during
War II he took time out for four years
to serve in the Royal Canadian Air
Force with No. 6 Bomber Group. Cess-
nock’s Town Hall can do what no other
N.S.W. country Town Hall can do —it
can accommodate the full Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra. Its building was due
largely to the persistence of Neate’s
brother, Alderman Harry Neate, member
of Greater Cessnock City Council and
former Mayor
• •
D. B. Muirhead, who becomes London
representative of the Australian Meat
Board later this year, is meantime making
a study-tour of South America, in par-
ticular looking into production and mar-
keting in Argentina and Brazil. He plans
to return next month, before taking-up
the London appointment.
" • •
Francis Clancy drifted into The
Bulletin office the other day to look-up
the poems of Mervyn O’Hara —a promis-
ing writer of the ’twenties who died
young—and when that was sorted-out
it seemed time to sort-out Francis
Clancy. He had been public-relations
officer of the Department of Supply arid
Development, which, he explained, in-
cluded among other things all p.-r. duties
for Woomera Rocket Range. Lie added
that he was always a bit proud of the
fact that the chap who first struck
uranium at Rum Jungle told him later
that he had in his pocket at the time
a copy of a pamphlet Clancy had written
on uranium-prospecting. He considers
that what’s going on out at Woomera
is of the utmost importance to Australia,
not only the scientific work but also the
tree-planting in that barren wilderness.
Just before the war Clancy published
They Built a Nation, a factual history
of Sydney. It sold as well as a best-
selling novel, and his two teenage kids—
and a few of the children of his sister-in-
law, Mary Durack —“reckoned it helped
them with their Australian History
papers.”
Son of Sir Henry Lefroy and brought-
up on Walebing (W.A.), his father’s
station, Edward Henry Bruce Lefroy was
WESTRALIAN KNIGHT
schooled in Perth and England and re-
turned to Westralia to work for four
years on his uncle Frank Wittenoom's
place, Boolardy, on the Murchison,
before taking-up Cranmore Park in 1909
and running it till six years ago, when
his son, P. 8., took it on. At present
he runs Merinos at Colvin House, near
Round Hill (W.A.), and in this week’s
supplement has given some of his views
on sheepbreeding in Westralia. An expert
in that field, with the launching of a
Peppin Merino stud at Cranmore Park
and a stud of Cranmore Park sheep at
Round Hill among his ventures, he has
been a co-opted member of the C.5.1.R.0.
council since 1945, was pastoralist-
chairman of the W.A. committee of
C.S.I.R. in 1939-43, has been a senator
of the University of Western Australia
for the past 15 years, and was knighted
in 1955.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 81, Mordaunt Lindsay Clarke,
who designed the library at ’‘Shore” as a
memorial to “old boys” killed in the South
African War. A foundation-pupil at the school,
he later went to England, and then practised
as an architect in South Africa for some years
before coming back to Australia. As a
War I Digger he was severely wounded on
Gallipoli.
In Brisbane, at 81, Canon William Perry
French Morris, who went from the rectorate
of a Yarra dockside parish in South Mel-
bourne to found “Churchie” (Brisbane Church
of England Grammar School). Headmaster
from 1912 until he retired in 1946, he wrote
Sons of Magnus—First Steps of a Queensland
School, and Havenhome and Other Verses.
In Sydney, at 78, Henry Arundel Evans,
descendant of pioneer families, and from 1921
to 1938 a councillor of the Australasian
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy. With
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd., all his working
life, he was manager of their Cockle Creek
works for more than a quarter of a century.


ABORIGINALITIES
I heard a colored girl explaining
to her class, who spoke only
pidgin: “Here we have one apple, so we
say, an apple. We have two now ; so
we say, two apples. We have a case of
apples, so have many apples.” The class
looked blankly at her. She tried again:
“You have one dog, eh? You have a
dog. You have plenty dog—that two
dog. You have too much dog—that
many dogs. Savvy?” And they did, with
broad smiles and holding up of fingers.
In the past there was no way of count-
“I’m a cockatoo , you big galah !”
ing, and the ages of people were not
known because they could only remem-
ber by seasons or events. I asked black
Rosy how old was her little boy,
Stanley. She counted on her fingers, then
looked perplexed until a thought came,
and she beamed at me: “He one Christ-
mas and two Cooktown Races! ” she
decided. Rosy had a new baby she
had christened “Duggery.” “Wherever
did you get that name?” I asked, and she
said: “It very good name, belongga
policeman. Stanley been name longga
policeman, too. He go then new one
come. I think that his name —but it
could be where he say we can go some
time; proper good place, eh?” —
“Churinga.”
* * * *
“Ymar”: The office-pet of a Natimuk
(Vic.) newspaper is a huge spider which,
in a web a yard across, has long been
the paper’s unpaid fly-catcher. His old
cobbers on the staff, about to move
15 miles to modern premises in Horsham,
want to take him along, but are doubtful
how the eight-legged old-timer will fit
into that glass-and-chrome setting.
* * * *
“Yandoo”: A recent questioner here
need have no further doubt about it—
the name “Ghan” for the alleged express
which runs to Alice Springs certainly
derives from the Afghan camel-drivers.
It was known as that during the term
of the first Commonwealth Railways
Commissioner, Norris G. Bell. Commis-
sioner Gahan wasn't appointed until
1929.
* . * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: About that odd-number
complex in black cockatoos lately
noted here, knowledgeable Michael Shar-
land in his Tasmanian Birds says: “It
is rarely that a single bird is seen ; it
is sociable and moves about in the com-
pany of its kind and generally in odd
numbers. Even during the breeding-
season a third bird is seen with what
presumably is a pair.”
* * * *
“Jock”: A timber surely new to most'
Australians was the walking-stick in
curly jam-tree from Western Australia
presented to Lord Balfour of Inchyre
in Canberra by the president of the
Associated Chambers of Commerce of
Australia (Mr. I. Connell), who explained
that the curly jam-tree was so named
because of its curly grain und its sap
whose taste was similar to that of straw-
berry jam. He added that only four
such 'Sticks had been presented —to
George VI, Lord Gowrie, the Duke of
Gloucester and Field-Marshal Viscount
Montgomery.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: The Burdekin-plum of
North Queensland and the karaka of
northern New Zealand are Tasman-
separated anacardic cousins. The former
yields a superlative timber for fishing-
rods ; the latter grows wood of only
fuel-quality, but hangs a nut of such
succulent nutrition that the tree gained
the rare distinction of cultivation by the
Maoris. Burdekin-plum yields from its
inner bark an abo.-valued fish-poison,
and the karaka-nut has to be prepared
by heating and steeping or it will kill or
leave its consumer with permanently
distorted and rigid limbs. Of the same
poisonous family, the Malayan rengas’s
rich-red, yellow-flecked wood is got only
at the risk of its fallers being incapaci-
tated by a skin-irritation. Natives trust
a technique of axe-wielding in the nude,
lathered with coconut-oil. Another of
the toxic tribe is that bane of American
picnics, the poison-ivy ; and yet another
the rhus that garden-lovers are warned
against — 1 it yields the resin that bases
Japanese lacquer.
* * * *
“Admirer”: Yet another pearl-diver’s
death in the treacherous Darnley Depths
reminded me of the time two divers’
bodies were brought-in on different ships.
Nearly all of the residents were at the
waters’ edge to see them come into the
jetty at Thursday Island, each lugger
with the diver’s scarlet lava-lava flying
half-mast, a vivid sign against the clear
turquoise of the deep water and the
milky-blue of the shallower water. Ships
working for pearl-shell form a procession
into Thursday Island until the funeral,
when they go out in line again if the
body is to be taken to another island
for burial. Weeping people say that they
are the deceased’s brothers and sisters;
so many, that one investigates and finds
that they are only very distantly related:
but any far-removed cousin is a brother
(or cousin-brother) to them. The women
wail all night; it is heart-rending. They
mourn for a week, when the spirit is
said to be still near, but then there is
a feast to speed the departing spirit, and




all mourning is over. After a year, the
Torres Islanders hold a “tombstone-
opening,” the setting-up and unveiling
of a tombstone to the departed, and a
wonderful feast. Shopkeepers tell me
£2OO is spent on a tombstone at times ;
but now they ask for cash in advance,
as it is very hard to get the money if
the stone is erected and not paid for. The
islanders forget the debt as they forget
their grief.
* * * *
“O-Twit”: Accused of being tough
with my lad, a member of a Cub-pack
engaged in the “Bobs for Jobs” drive,
when I wouldn’t pay -up until he had
"That’s your Weakness, Harry. You cant say ‘No!’”
completed a job to my satisfaction, I
recall my first job as a lad, a fence across
the face of a sandstone quarry. Left to
my own devices I punched those holes
stubbornly, selecting the softer spots
when possible, and finally had the job
ready for inspection. The blow to my
pride came when my father pointed out
this post too high, and some others out
of line. Begrudgingly, I corrected the
faults, and for 30 years or more that
fence has been a reminder. of his wis-
dom ; I have never since taken two bites
of a cherry.
* * * *
“1.Q.”: The sun had just set and the
two brolgas were taking an unhurried
stroll. They walked with springing steps,
long necks now bent forward, now erect.
Then suddenly the male bird skipped
ahead and began to dance, leaping into
the air, advancing, retreating, bowing
low with extended wings, while his com-
panion stalked on, regardless. I had
never seen one in action before, and i ( t
caused my mind to flash back a couple
of decades, to the young man who used
to take up the collection in church. He
was tall and emaciated and walked with
a springing step, his long, thin neck and
small head seeming to precede him down
the aisle. It was now I realised why they
called him “The Brolga.”
A recent (minor) Tasmanian flood
arrived so suddenly as to almost
engulf a pet parrot chained to his stand,
His hysterical shrieks of “Polly wants a
drink!” repeated non-stop, were heard
just in time to save him from the last
and longest drink of his life.—“E. &
0.E.”
* * * *
“Pisces”: Can’t agree with “Shamu-
seen’s” recent “Aboriginalities” sugges-
tion that a stingray is a marine mar-
supial. True, a hen-’ray will often emit
a fully-grown young when speared, but
that s merely a premature biith brought
about by stress. I’ve known one dis-
charge an immature ’ray too young to
be carried independently in a pouch.
On two occasions, among mangrove-
roots in a still backwater, I’ve seen
a ’ray give natural birth to a baby. It
was a more -or - less normal birth in
every way, other than that the tail of
the baby came first. That long tail was
curved so that the sting was flat and
couldn’t inconvenience the mother.
Immediately after birth the little bloke
swam away, quite at home.
* * * *
“Derwent”: The man-fern acts as a
good nursing-mother to several varieties
of trees in Tasmania. Dropped by birds
into the central part of the fern at some
height from the ground, the seeds ger-
minate and are protected from cattle
or other forms of interference, the seed-
lings receiving moisture from the fern-
roots. I have seen myrtle, blackwood
and other splendid specimens that have
originated in this way. With lack of
gratitude, however, the tree strangles the
fern in course of time, the only indica-
tion of their relationship being a mark
in the trunk.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: While appreciating
Roland Robinson’s reproduction here of
his aboriginal friend’s “Sermon of the
Birds,” I suggest that the avian list in-
cludes a couple of species that rarely,
if ever, get within earshot of the lyre-
bird, and one that could not possibly
do so. That one is the scrub-robin,
which in its southern form is confined
to the Mallee country and in the north
is purely tropical, so that in each case
it is well out of bounds for the lyrebird.
Anyway, the scrub-robin is not a genuine
robin (like various other Australian
birds, it was given a casual name be-
cause no one could produce anything
better), and it may be that the term
as used in Robinson's verse refers to one
of the yellow robins, which do, in fact,
associate with the lyrebird.
* * * *
“Varius”: Almost every old-time
boundary-rider regarded his hut as his
castle, and there his law was absolute.
His dog had certain privileges, but had
to run the risk of a kick in the ribs if
anything went wrong. Nearly all of them
had pets, though they’d go as near as
was possible for them to blush behind
their beards if they thought anyone
detected that softness. Willy - wagtails,
waxbill-finches and other nesting birds
were common pets. One fellow I knew
adopted a buck-rabbit, but when it tried
to introduce its missus to the scraps from
the hut the boundary-rider flew into a
rage, disowned it, and switched to an
old-man goanna. The big go. responded.
In next to no time it knew to the length
of a shadow how near it was to sundown,
and when the boundary-rider would be
having his last meal of the day. That
was the time for the go. to wait, neck
arched as it advanced, tongue flickering
as it fasted the air, and get his handout
from the table of the hutter. Meat every
time, for meat was plentiful; mostly
corned-beef and mutton. But, like some
dogs, that go. was a one-man pet. When
the boundary-rider went on his annual
spree, and was replaced by another, Joe
the go. lit-out for the mulga again.
* * * *
TTeard an ingenious parody of the
“Battle of New Orleans” from our
N.Z. radio-station by the Howard
Morrison Quartet, a Maori ensemble
just back from Australia. It was called
“Battle of the Waikato,” and took in
the Maori Wars of the 1840’s from the
Maori angle, of course, mentioning Te
Kooti (who chopped down the British
flagstaff several times), the song went
on :
We took some horses so we wouldn’t
have to walk,
We took a little puha and we took a little
pork.
No Maori hangi, or feast, is complete
without puha and pork. Puha is a type
of milk-thistle that tastes like spinach
with a peculiarly tangy flavor, and is
kapai with boiled-pork, as it offsets the
fattiness. The witty parody has started
the rounds of the local request-pro-
grammes. The Maori loves a joke, and
if it is on his pakeha neighbor for a
change, that also is kapai, eh? —“Janus.”


SHARE IN AUSTRALIA’S
GROWTH & PROSPERITY
The Delfin Australian Fund Inc., provides the
ideal investment opportunity for all.
Some of Australia’s leading financial organizations are foundation
shareholders in The Delfin Australian Fund Inc. It is open to all
investors, whether individuals, companies or superannuation funds.
What it offers you!
The Delfin Fund provides in one security a balanced investment
that enables all investors to participate in the growth and prosperity
of Australia.
You make a single investment and acquire an interest in a wide
range of public companies including
BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY DAVID JONES
COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING WOOLWORTHS
You benefit from the progress and development of the nation.
The Fund offers these advantages
• Professional Management
•Wide spread of investment
• Prospects for capital growth
• Maximum return commensurate
with safety
• Regular half-yearly dividends
• Ease of investment
•Cash at any time
CONFIDENCE OF LEADING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
The management company, Delfin Investment Services Pty. Ltd.,
has taken firm 750,000 shares. Its shareholders are The Bank
of Adelaide, The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney Ltd.,
Development Finance Corporation Ltd., Eagle Star Insurance Co.
Ltd., Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co. Ltd., Perpetual Trustee
Co. Ltd., and Unit Investments Pty. Ltd. (holding company for
Australian Fixed Trusts Pty. Ltd.).
Directors:
J. H. D. Marks, F.C.A. (Chairman)
A. G. Armytage ->
J. W. Blaiklock
R. W. R. Johnston
T,P. Keene, F.C.1.1., A.A.S.A.
R. G. McCrossin, F.I.A.
L. J. Thompson, F.C.A:, F.C.I.S.
POST COUPON FOR FREE BOOKLET
■ DN6
DELFIN INVESTMENT SERVICES PTY. LTD.
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney; 259 Collins Street, Melbourne;
49 William Street, Perth; 130 Queen Street, Brisbane; 35 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide; 86 Murray Street, Hobart.
Post me a prospectus of The De.fin Australian Fund Inc.
NAME J
BLOCK LETTERS l
ADDRESS......
DEI.7
OPENING PRICE
PER SHARE
: 4,000,000 shares have been
underwritten by various
members of the Associated
Stock Exchanges of Australia.
HOW TO APPLY FOR SHARES
Copies of prospectus and application
forms may be obtained from:
Any branch of
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING CO.
OF SYDNEY LTD.
THE COMMONWEALTH TRADING
BANK OF AUSTRALIA
The offices of the underwriters
hordern utz & bode, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
mullens & co., 16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Patrick & co., 16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
k. j. polkinghorne & co., 133 Pitt Street, Sydney
A. b. s. white & co., 16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
carney & Johnson, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
clarke & co., 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
GUEST & bell, 44 Queen Street, Melbourne
tolhurst, henley, munckton & co. 401 Collins Street,
Melbourne
Charles elliott & son, 356 Queen Street, Brisbane
A. L. nevitt & CO., 297 Queen Street, Brisbane
cutten & harvey, 97 King William St., Adelaide
T. e. eyres & co., 69 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
p. s. shadforth & son, Elizabeth Street, Hobart
Pr
mi
tm.
m
F Utin
*0?
OR ANY MEMBER OF RECOGNISED
AUSTRALIAN STOCK EXCHANGES.
or the Managers:
DELFIN INVESTMENT SERVICES Pty.Ltd.
Registered Office:
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney. Phone 25 5731


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8LR327
Cables & Telegrams
EMDECELEX ’• Sydney
DAVIS. ROTHWELL & CO.
(Incorporating Headlam, Hew son & Co.)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
c Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange .)
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
81. 1855 (3 lines)
193 Summer Street, Orange.
Orange 4054
Telegraphic and Cable Address, “RETEP," Sydney.
Buisness, Robbery, Etc.
Shares Firm Again
A hardening in share prices
was evident on Australian
Stock Exchanges last week
notwithstanding the warning
words of Staniforth Ricketson,
who spoke of “exuberant con-
fidence” in the share and real-
estate markets largely based on
the inflationary complex, a
fantastic boom in real-estate
values reminiscent of the
disastrous land-boom of the
1880’s, unbridled speculation
in the equity-share market and
absurdly low yields from
equity shares.
Readers of The Bulletin
will have no doubt as to what
Mr. Ricketson, who is senior
partner in J. B. Were and Son,
the Melbourne brokers, and
chairman of several invest-
ment-companies, means when
he says those things.
In these pages warnings of
the gambling attitude of inves-
tors to Stock Exchange and
real-estate transactions have
been given from time to time,
and this has been so notwith-
standing the fact that a num-
ber of investment stocks have
proved their worth by produc-
ing results that have well
justified investors’ optimism. In
the main, however, speculation
has far outrun any actual or
foreseeable rise in company
earnings.
One of the disturbing things
is that, in this era of take-
overs, some expansionist com-
panies have become keenly
concerned about the premium
at which their shares stand in
the market. A decade ago it
would have been bad form
indeed for a board of directors
to have been in any way in
favor of seeing their shares go
to sensational heights in the
market. But now, with
thoughts of taking-over them-
selves or of resisting takeovers,
directors of many companies
are interested in seeing the
highest possible valuation
placed by the market on shares
in their companies. Hence
share-splits and other devices,
mostly with takeover problems
in mind.
Added to the other factors
which have already been men-
tioned, this one creates addi-
tional confusion for the inves-
tor, especially the unsophisti-
cated speculator, and should
warn him that he is gambling
in a casino in which he is well
out of his class.
Ampol and H. C. Sleigh
Ampol’s offer of five of its
own ss. shares for each
four ss. shares in H. C.
Sleigh (with corresponding
offers to option-holders and
convertible-noteholders) having
been rejected by the board of
H. C. Sleigh, Ltd., the Ampol
board intends to pursue the
matter no further. The ball is
now in the H. C. Sleigh court.
The Ampol terms (which in-
cluded a cash alternative of
20s. for each Sleigh share) were
apparently arrived at on a basis
of self-respect as well as a con-
sidered regard for the other
fellow. The offer was at-
tractive but sensible. The
share-exchange would have, on
the basis of unchanged divi-
dends and recent prices, given
H. C. Sleigh shareholders a
gain of 40 p.c. in div.-income
and 36 p.c. in market-value.
While these terms of amal-
gamation were quite attractive,
as was shown by the market
appreciation in H. C. Sleigh
shares following early seepage
of the information to the
sharemarket, they were not
sensational. Nor was there any
real reason that they should
have been. Though there would
have been immediate benefit to
H. C. Sleigh shareholders, the
greatest benefit was likely to
have been long-term, and to
both comp a n i e s —that is,
through trading and other
advantages which would have
been achieved through integra-
tion of both businesses.
From the political point of
view there appears to have
been nothing to lose by an
amalgamation of these two
Australian-owned cos. It would
have given both —and Sleigh’s
in particular—greater powers
of resistance against takeover
attempts by overseas com-
panies.
Angus and Robertson
TThe ss. shares in Angus and
Robertson have dropped
from a peak of 265. 3d. this year
to 21s. last week, apparently
as a result of selling by former
shareholders in Robertson and
Mullens, Ltd., of Melbourne,
who received four A. and R.
ss. shares for every two Robert-
son and Mullens £1 ords. and
four A. and R. ords. for every
three R. and M. £1 prefs.
At 21s. the shares in A. and
R., cum a one-for-six bonus-
issue, are worth approximately
18s. ex bonus. On the basis of
a 15 p.c. dividend, which the
A. and R. board has expressed
confidence in maintaining, the
yield at the current price would
be a shade under 4.2 p.c.
When all the takeover of R.
and M. is complete, prefs. are
converted into ords. and the
new bonus scrip is issued, paid
capital of A. and R. will be
£513,000.
On this, a 15 p.c. div. would
call for about £77,000. This is
in excess of the parent’s dis-
closed profits of £43,931 in
1958-59, but those profits ex-
cluded the earnings of the
Halstead Press and also the
earnings of Robertson and
Mullens.
For over thirty years the
profits of Halstead Press, the
book - publishing subsidiary,
have been building-up out of
view, and today represent great
inner strength. There is also
reserve strength in group free-
holds, in Melbourne as well as
Sydney.
Considerable expansion is
going on in the co.’s printing
and publishing activities, and
A. and R. now has a wider
spread of retail outlets.
Loan Undersubscribed
'T'he Commonwealth has again
A struck a lukewarm market
for its cash and conversion
borrowing operations.
The £25-millioh' cash offering
was undersubscribed by £3.5
million. The conversion offer
of £lOO.B million is not yet
complete, but up to May 23
there had been a conversion of
£76.4 million and a redemption
of £20.9 million.
Prior to this latest operation,
borrowings, both overseas and
abroad, had been £150.3 million
so far during 1959-60, com-
pared with £l5B million during
the same period of 1958-59
These figures included special
bonds.
In the latest operation, special
bonds have accounted for an
additional £2.3 million.
Loan requirements for the
current year are set at £220
million, mostly for State works
and housing.
Actual drawings by the States
for the first nine months of the
current financial year totalled
£145.9 million. In addition,
£4.4 million was required for


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
?S YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
b...
*
There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
Australia’s
Better Brandy
Pot still BRANDY
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at all times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over!.
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
SmGITGS
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. ft WINEMAKERS & DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR AN GOVE'S WINE
advances to the States for War
Service Land Settlement.
So far this year the Com-
monwealth Government, as
underwriter of the State Gov-
ernment's loan requirements,
has made up the shortcomings
of the public loan-markets by
additional resort to seasonal
Treasury-notes, Treasury-bills
and bank-overdraft.
Murdoch and “The Mirror”
Following acquisition by
F News, Ltd., Adelaide,
of O’Connell Pty.’s holding
in Mirror Newspapers, Ltd.,
Sydney, there were quick
changes in the “Mirror” board.
A. V. Smith, W. Buckingham,
C. O. Mant and H. E. Scotford
have retired. Three new direc-
tors have been appointed—
K. R. (Rupert) Murdoch, J.
Glass and F. Waters. Rupert
Murdoch has been appointed
acting chairman and managing-
director.
Mirror Newspapers (formerly
Truth and Sportsman, Ltd.)
passed into the control of
O’Connell Pty., Ltd., at the
end of 1958. Finance for the
purchase of Ezra Norton’s con-
trolling-interest in the co. was
provided by the John Fairfax
group, which has nevertheless
always proclaimed the indepen-
dence of the O’Connell-Mirror
set-up.
At the time of the takeover,
Warwick Fairfax said his
company felt that the “Mirror”
group should not fall into the
hands of another newspaper-
group. Within 18 months that
is precisely what has happened.
But at the time he spoke Mr.
Fairfax probably had in mind
one or other of two different
newspaper-groups.
Under O’Connell control the
“Mirrors.,” daily and Sunday,
apparently haven’t been doing
as well as they did under
Norton management. Higher
costs outside the control of the
board have been blamed for
the recent cut in the ord. div.
But exactly what prompted
the sale of control to Rupert
Murdoch’s News, Ltd., provides
a first-class guessing-garne. It
certainly followed quickly upon
the purchase by News, Ltd., of
control of Cumberland News-
papers, Ltd., Parramatta, with
its 28 different free newspapers,
of which the “North Shore
Times,” of 40 pages and 75,000
circulation, made its appear-
ance in Sydney’s northern
suburbs only about three weeks
ago. And Sydney’s North Shore
is a stronghold of the Fairfax
“Sun.”
New Investment Analysis
are the shares to buy
today—those which have
had a dazzling run in the public
eye and on the market over the
past 10 years (and which con-
sequently have soared in price),
or those which have shown
little capital - increment, and
which therefore might have a
potential as yet undiscovered
by the X-ray eyes of investors
and investment specialists?
There is no general answer
to that question; but anyone
wanting to take the matter
further will be greatly aided in
his research by the latest annual
Investment Review of Ordinary
Shares put out by Ralph W.
King and Yuill, the Sydney
sharebroking firm.
This is the third issue of
what is coming to be regarded
as a standard work on capital
and yield developments of
selected stocks. In the present
issue no fewer than 264 stocks
are analysed.
The hasis of analysis is to
assume the purchase of a parcel
of shares on the market in
1949, to assume that all sub-
sequent issues have been taken-
up and retained, and from that
to work-out the present yield,
at current aiv.-rates, on the
total capital invested and also
the capital-increment on the
sharemarket over the decade.
Where a company has been
listed since 1949 the base price
of the shares is that at the time
of placement or listing.
Over the decade some of the
most rewarding stocks, market-
wise, have been Reichhold
Chemicals, Lifesavers, Rocla
Pipes, Minster, Mount Isa and
Lombard (Aust.). The Ralph
King analysis shows clearly
what the effect of soaring
market increment has been on
earnings-price yield in these
and all other cases.
Apart from the individual
analyses of companies (each
of which is given a complete
page) there is a handy summary
in the front of the volume
giving the percentage capital-
gain or -decline over the decade,
net tangibles at last balance,
last annual earning-rate, and
earnings-yield to market price.
This summary is a most
intriguing inducement to deeper
investigation of many stocks.
The review, while it shows
the obvious advantages pos-
sessed by good-class ordinary
shares over fixed-interest securi-
ties as investments during the
past decade, also shows that,
on average, investors have not
benefited unfairly under the in-
flationary conditions of the
same period. It should be rea-
lised that since 1949 the basic
wage has risen by more than
100 per cent., and that, in all
fairness, by reason of plough-
back of profits and other fac-
tors, market-value of shares
should have grown by more
than that.
Investors will find the Ralph
King review most valuable. It
is also a useful reference
for anyone interested in the
national economy as a whole.
Diversity in Exports
[From an address to the National
Export Convention Ly G. P.
Phillips, First Assistant Secretary,
Department of Trade, Canberra.]
T\iversification in the pat-
tern of Australian exports
has been occurring and can be
expected to continue. In part
this is a reflection of our closer
trading-ties with Asian coun-
tries and in part the increased
tempo of our development.
Australia has become, and
will continue to grow as, a
source of supply for Asian
countries bf many of their
basic developmental needs.
These include coal, steel and
steel products, bauxite, copper,
lead, zinc, components for
manufacture, a growing range


INVEST WITH SAFETY
HASTINGS DEEDING
3
6
9
12
18 MONTHS AND OVER
%
DEPOSITS MAY BE WITHDRAWN ON
30 DAYS' NOTICE
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
SALES FINANCING OF FAMOUS PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY THE
FORD
CATERPILLAR
HYSTER
A.E.C.
FORDSON
LANZ
JOHN DEERE
LISTER
• CIRCULAR NO. 5 dated 31/3/60 with audited balance
sheet as at 31/12/59 available from:
All Members of the Stock Exchange and all
branches of
HASTINGS DiERING
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
William & Crown Streets, Sydney. Tel. FA 0322 (33 lines)
102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Tel. 4-1481 (9 lines)
City Chambers, Alinga St., Canberra, A.C.T. Tel. J 4051
• •MAIL THIS COUPON ••
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.,
G.P.O. Box 4333, SYDNEY.
Please send me, without any obligation on my part, full details of
your terms deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
6S9QH
If any “Bulletin” illustration
takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you
a price for the original.
of producer-goods and certain
consumer-goods.
Our geographic position
points to a growing inter-
dependence between Australia
and other countries of the
South-east Asian and Asian
areas. Through trade talks,
trade - agreements, trade - mis-
sions, trade-publicity, the Ex-
port Payments Insurance Cor-
poration and the activities of
the Trade Commissioner Ser-
vice, the Government is en-
deavouring to ensure that Aus-
tralian exporters can get into
those markets to sell; that they
receive current information on
developments, and that a spot-
light is focused on Australia as
the logical source of supply.
The potential for expanding
our trade with Europe in com-
modities other than wool and
metals is bound up with the
problems of agricultural pro-
tectionism both outside and
within the European Economic
Community. The opportunities
exist for significant gains if
more “outward-looking” poli-
cies are adopted for agriculture.
Although the prospects for
expansion in the short term are
not promising, it is difficult to
envisage an integrated Europe
with rising living-standards
which in the longer term will
find it physically possible or
economically desirable to main-
tain such a high degree of self-
sufficiency in agricultural pro-
ducts.
In North America we have
been earning about £BO million
annually in recent years.
Although a highly competitive
market our exports have been
increasing in variety, and
reports received from our
current trade-mission have been
most encouraging. Insofar as
the United States is concerned,
agricultural protectionism, a
high wool tariff and restricted
access for lead and zinc have
severely curtailed opportunities
for increasing our trade in
many traditional export lines.
Our trade with the African
continent is growing and the
opportunities exist for a con-
tinuing expansion. The South
American continent, with an
import expenditure of £2456
million in 1958, offers a vast
potential market which is about
to be explored on a systematic
basis by a trade-survey mission.
An increasing proportion of
Australia’s exports will be
shipped to tropical and South-
ern Hemisphere countries.
Nevertheless, our traditional
markets in Europe and North
America will continue to take
the bulk of our exports in the
foreseeable future.
Australian Woollen Mills
A lthough Australian Wool-
len Mills has continued to
find trading conditions difficult,
it has maintained its interim
dividend at 5 p.c., the same as
for 1958-59, when 11 p.c. was
paid for the whole year.
A.W.M. has large capacity
(in relation to capital) and
strong trading connections, and
at 30s. the £1 ord. shares, yield-
ing 7.3 p.c. on an 11 p.c. div.
basis, have more attractions
than many other stocks in that
price-yield class


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 15 72.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Q
k
f
Vintage Wines
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
THE BOSTON SYMPHONY
\s7hen Charles Munch signals
* ’ the first powerful chords
of Beethoven's “Eroica” Sym-
phony at the first Australian
concert of the Boston Sym-
phony Orchestra on June 6
(Brisbane) he will be introduc-
ing an orchestra that has
claimed the title of world's best
more often than any other.
This honor is no doubt
shared by several great orches-
tras, and for different reasons.
The Boston players could not
be said to outdo the Vienna
Philharmonic in Mozart or the
Amsterdam Orchestra in
Brahms; but their brilliance in
all kinds of music from Bach
to Bartok has been a revelation
to us for many years through
recordings, and no one can
doubt that we will be hearing
one of the finest-sounding
ensembles the world of music
has yet seen.
The Boston always admits
the public to some of its re-
hearsals. In this way it trains
its audience of the future, for
by spending hours in the work-
room of the master-craftsmen
of music the student gets some-
thing worth all the music-
appreciation lessons in the
world.
This kind of thing has helped
to build a great bond of affec-
tion between the orchestra and
Bostonians, giving even the un-
musical citizen a feeling that
the orchestra is common
property. And this spirit has
been growing up ever since
1881, when a private citizen,
Major Henry Higgi n s o n,
founded the orchestra out of
a devotion to music and the
profits of a shrewd head in the
banking business.
Ever since, through a succes-
sion of private supporters and
conductors, the Boston has
been one of the elect among
orchestras, paying its musicians
highly and hiring only the best.
A heated moment in the Elizabethan Trust Opera Company’s production of Richard
Strauss’s “Salome,” starring Joan Hammond and Neil Easton (Sydney Elizabethan).
The players who assembled
under the legendary Koussevit-
sky (1924-1949) were hand-
picked from the best orchestras
in Europe, with French wind-
players and many Germans
among the brass. For a time
it was a French - German
orchestra rather than an Ameri-
can one. The foreign importa-
tions stayed beyond their con-
tract time, and many of them
produced brilliant pupils. Now
the orchestra is as distinctively
Bostonian as Harvard Univer-
sity, and the family atmosphere
is very strong in its ranks.
Still entirely financed by
private subscriptions, the Bos-
ton Orchestra works hard, giv-
ing 24 Friday-afternoon and
Saturday concerts in Boston
and five in Carnegie Hall, New
York. The event of its year is
undoubtedly the Berkshire Fes-
tival, set among the glades of
Nathaniel Hawthorne's en-
chanted Tanglewood, in Mas-
sachuselts. Here, in July and
August, the orchestra gives
concerts in a huge building
to some 6000 listeners. The
principal players take master-
classes for some 400 young
musicans, prospective instru-
mentalists or conductors.
Charles Munch, present head
of the Boston Symphony, is a
precise craftsman, French by
birth and choice, though his
birthplace, Alsace, made him at
one time technically a German
citizen. He was drafted into
the German Army in World
War I. War 11 he spent in
Paris as a conductor, using his
earnings and his country house
for Resistance activities that
earned him the Legion of
Honor.
Miinch is a relation of Albert
Schweitzer and, like Schweitzer,
} s steeped in the music of Bach
as a result of the family tradi-
Hon of organ-playing. Never-
theless, he continues the Boston
tradition of fulfilling its obliga-
-o°n to history by playing as
much new music as possible.
There has been no alteration
of this policy for the Australian
tour.
The programmes for Aus-
tralia have been chosen to
show-off all departments of the
orchestra. Australian cities
outside Sydney and Melbourne
too rarely have the opportunity
to hear music played by an
orchestra with the full comple-
ment of strings that Wagner,
Strauss and Debussy required;
and the Boston Orchestra plays
romantic composers with that
wonderful pulsating string-
tone that gives life to music
which otherwise sounds limp,
The Boston visit may show
us that some of out own
orchestras are bettei than we
thought. After the visit of the
splendid Czech Orchestra last
year, some were heard to say
that what was remarkable was


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ROBERTA LEAH Y.—T AK E
NOTICE that VALENTINE JERRETT
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1503 of 1960 on the ground of your
adultery with BARRY WILLIAM
JERRETT and she seeks the exercise of
the Court’s discretion in her favour
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899-1958 If you
wish to defend you may make applica-
tion to the Court to be let in to de-
fend in the Divorce Registry Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from R. H. RICHARDS, Solicitor,
2nd Floor, Manchester Unity Building,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, in the
State of New South Wales. —C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO BARRY WILLIAM JERRETT of
address unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
VALENTINE JERRETT has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1503 of 1960 on
the ground of your adultery with
ROBERTA LEAHY and she seeks the
exercise of the Court’s discretion in her
favour under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1599-1958 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Mint Building- Macquarie Street Sydney
by the Bth day of August 1960 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from R. H. RICHARDS, Soli-
citor, 2nd Floor, Manchester Unity
Building, 160 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney, in the State of New South Wales'—
C. A. 11. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES-—ln Divorce.
TO BERNHARD KUTZKA.—TAKE
NOTICE that GERDA JOHANNE
JOSEPHINE KUTZKA has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1283 of 1960 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance i-n the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie Street
Sydney by the 22nd of July 1960 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ROYDON JOSEPH PETTI-
FORD, Solicitor, 19 Bayswater Road,
Kings Cross, N.S.W.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separat*-
f.roni the rest ot the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHEK, 8.A., B Sc.,
Headmaster
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
O'SCLUVAN
fiy
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, -London, New York
LETTERPRFSS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TVPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
not how good the Czechs were
but how good the Sydney
Orchestra is when it is on its
toes. If the Boston can en-
liven, satisfy and stir-up appe-
tites we must hope that it will
not be long before President
Eisenhower’s Special Cultural
Programme comes our way
again.
D.J.M.
❖ ❖
Sydney Opera
Say what you like about
its body-in-the-bag melo-
drama, “Rigoletto,” in its
central character-study, remains
a work of some depth and
the subject of brilliant writing
by Verdi ; and it was this
aspect of it which received
most attention in Robin Love-
joy’s stylish production for
the Trust Opera Company in
Sydney.
Ronal Jackson was an in-
telligent delineator who,
though too tall for the name-
part, was able to arouse sym-
pathy for the hunchbacked
procurer ; he sang with good
resonance and clarity and was
totally convincing when tragedy
at last burst upon him.
As the Duke, Donald Smith
sang with much virility,
adopting an air of gay pro-
fligacy with ease ; his only
lapse was that he went off-
pitch on a few notes in his
eager quest for vocal exhilara-
tion.
Rosalind Keene, replacing
Glenda Raymond at less than
an hour’s notice on the first
night, was an appealing
Gilda. She managed the
coloratura delicacies and the
evocation of demureness and
rapture in “Caro Nome” very
well in her lightly lyric and
pleasantly flexible voice.
Neil Warren-Smith used his
full-bodied bass in finely
sinister fashion as the assassin
Sparafucile ; and Justine Ret-
tick, suitably coquettish as
Maddelena, a rich con-
tralto to make the great
“Quartet” a lively and well-
balanced piece.
Wendy Dickson’s scenery
was satisfactory except for the
final scene, which really needs
a dividing-wall between Spara-
fucile’s house and the lurking
Rigoletto and his ill-fated
daughter. The costumes by
Louis Kahan were sumptuous.
As designer of scenery as
well as costumes, Kahan also
contributed largely to whati
turned out to be one of the
artistic successes of the season
—the three one-aet Puccini
operas grouped under the
title “The Trittico.”
His Seine-side setting for
“II Tabarro” was the best this
work has been - accorded in
Sydney ; for “Sister Angelica”
he achieved simplicity com-
bined with impressive effects
of light and shade in the con-
vent ; and his costumes for
“Gianni Schicchi” captured a
comic spirit that was worked-
out superbly by the entire
cast.
Neil Easton, singing
strongly in “II Tabarro,” con-
veyed much of the mental
torture of the brooding barge-
master who resolves his
troubles by strangling his
wife’s lover and hurling him
at her feet. Tenor Gregory
Dempsey, as the victim, sang
with some fire ; Theresa
Adams used her soprano with
judgment as the guilty wife,
but failed to generate emo-
tion in her acting.
In the rather thin “Sister
Angelica,” Valda Bagnall
gave a neat portrayal of the
young nun forced to contend
with a problem out of her
past. Here, as in “Rigoletto,”
the chorus-work was meri-
torious ; and dependable
Justine Rettick, who had
sharply characterised the junk-
seller in “Tabarro,” drew a
likeable sketch of the Princess.
However, “Gianni Schicchi,”
that richly droll tale of a
village shrewdhead who hops
into a dead man’s bed and
redistributes his will, was
the highlight. Neil Warren-
Smith, cleverly made-up, acted
and sang effervescently as
Schicchi, and Doreen Morrow
sang sweetly the opera’s only
recognised aria “Oh, My
Beloved Daddy.”
The Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, under Eric Clap-
ham in “Rigoletto” and Karl
Rankl in “The Trittico,” gave
first-rate support.
S. W. K. .
❖ ❖ ❖
“New Faces of 1960”
David Whitfield, star of
Sydney Tivoli’s new show, is
one of these boiler-plated
tenors whose quality is mea-
sured in lb.-pressure to the sq.
in. or by their effect on women
of 30 -plus; he worries re-
viewers of long memory with
the thought of a recrudescence
of the “drawing-room classic,”
when the kids were told to
shut-up while Uncle Fred put
three shots in their lobster-
pots —better 45-r.p.m. Elvis any
day.
Apart from being a danger-
ous precedent, Whitfield is
pretty good ; the 30 -plus girls
might think him better than
Caruso or Tauber —he’s got
more life in him, and girls were
always practical—but it’s hard
to get used to great singers
using microphones, which look
like becoming a bit of a bore.
A good part of the wares of
the amusing Flat Tops was
peculiar microphone - effects ;
also of the two American
comedians, Baker and Douglas;
then again, this business of
running a record over the
speaker - system while the
comedian pretends he is doing
it all himself only another
yawn ; and it lessens one’s faith
in ventriloquists as good as
Chris Cross with his 6ft. lady-
doll —soon they’ll have to be
making obvious noises instead
of just straining their throats
to prove that what their dolls
are saying is not being fed
through the loudspeakers off a
record.
Baker and Douglas had
some good moments, one with
balloons in all the right places,
another with a magician-act
in which the imitations of
epileptic tics outbid one’s well-
bred ‘reluctance to laugh at
such things ; Wareham, the
N.Z. pegleg, gave a nice exhi-
bition of drinking while hold-
ing himself sideways on one
arm ; the Butler brothers
bounced well on their trampo-
line mattress, and never better
than when the littler one
flopped faultily as a St. Trinian
girl; and the ballet rode
around the stage on bicycles
and manoeuvred under chang-
ing lights as marching-girls—
but it’s at least two shows
since there were any nudes:
old and ineffectual though one
may be, one would still like to
feel that they were, in Mo’s
famous phrase, there if you
wanted them.
Swilliam.


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Kapiri Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etv. Makers of Classifiers,
\\ ater I'ilters, Steam Valves,
etc
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A344,000,000
•
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Artbursts
Dobells in Melbourne
There can be little doubt that
this (at the Melbourne Museum
of Modern Art of Australia) is
the most important exhibition
—the first time Dobell has been
so honored in this city—to be
seen here since the National
Gallery’s retrospective survey of
the art of the late Max Mel-
drum almost eight years ago.
Such a show must go a long
way towards justifying the
rather ambitious title of the
rnuseum, and its director, John
Reed, is to be congratulated on
his enterprise in organising it,
and for the eminently pleasing
presentation of paintings which
cover, in chronological order,
a 30-year span in the artist’s
life —from 1930 to the present.
Presumably because of space
considerations and/or because
they were unattainable, many
of Dobell’s finest works have
not been hung. There is, how-
ever, more than enough essen-
tial Dobell for the viewer to
gain a fairly comprehensive in-
sight into the achievement of
this most controversial of Aus-
tralian painters.
One thing the exhibition
should do is put an end to the
popular notion of Dobell as a
Revolutionary Modern. On the
evidence of these works noth-
ing could be further from the
truth. Nevertheless, his art may
certainly be considered modern
(lower-case) in the sense that
it convincingly suggests an in-
dividual artistic viewpoint based
primarily on the painter's own
experience and only second-
arily, if at all, on the already
interpreted experiences of other
artists.
Of course, solid influences
are not hard to detect in
Dobell’s work Renoir and
Hogarth are the first to come
to mind. And it is impossible
to miss the imprint of the Eng-
lish Slade School, where Dobell
studied as a young man,
strongly active in all his early
work and never quite dormant
even later in the superficially
freer portraits (such as the one
of Prof. Giblin) and in the
shimmering though somewhat
wooden figure-groups (such as
“Study for a Love Song”).
Two outstanding works in
the show are nude-studies, one
dating from 1931, convention-
ally conceived but glowing with
the life of flesh-tones and tex-
tures finely captured, and the
other from 1947, with its bold
fluid shapes and evocative
color-harmonies, an impressive
example of form and content
resolved.
Dobell is little-known here
as a landscapist, and it was
pleasant to find the two delight-
ful country scenes (“Storm
Approaching, Wangi,” and
“Three Girls Carrying Leaves”)
painted with a Constable-like
sense of atmosphere and, par-
ticularly, a preoccupation with
the domination that rain-clouds
often seem to assume over the
countryside below.
As to the recurring question
of whether Dobell’s portraits
are sometimes not far removed
from caricature —of course
they aren’t, and there’s no
reason why they should be.
Most of the portraits in the
exhibition (“Helena Rubin-
stein,” “Brian Penton,” “The
Irish Youth,” “Mrs. South
Kensington” and “The Sleep-
ing Greek” are good examples)
demonstrate clearly that
Dobell’s first concern is with
character, and that he will
pounce on any peculiarities of
feature that he feels will yield
him a visual image relevant to
what he wants to say about the
sitter’s personality.
If we must seek out the essen-
tial difference between Dobell
and those we normally accept
as caricaturists we will probably
find that it is a difference of
approach: with Dobell the
means never appear to be super-
ficial, the end never to ridicule.
AST.
♦2+ +J+
Carl Plate
Carl Plate certainly shows a
remarkable advance in his ex-
hibition of abstracts at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries ; but, be-
fore anybody is led by this
into giving too many loud
cheers for abstraction, it must
be realised that, in all except
precision of detail, the value
and charm of the best of these
paintings are wholly derived
from Nature.
Remove the pretentious titles
—and no picture should really
be allowed to gain any extra
force from its title ; it should
speak for itself —and the green-
and-yellow “Periphery Para-
dox” can simply be seen as a
rather stylised piece of Aus-
tralian bush; “Paradox of
Rescue” is a Chinese land-
scape-scroll ; even the massive
and somewhat turgid “Destruc-
tive Paradox No. 6, Temporary
Rest” is essentially a chunk
of rocks ; and the extremely
attractive “Seeing and Unsee-
ing” is a sort of Venetian or
Harbor scene suggesting build-
ings reflected in luminous
water.
The more abstract abstracts,
such as “Destructive Paradox
No. 7,” are just like anybody
else’s abstracts. So what has
happened is that, always a
clever painter but never quite
emerging from minor art in
his insects of a few years ago
or from confusion in his more
recent extraordinary series of
trotting-accidents, Plate has
been set free by abstraction to
work more largely and more
simply—but only while he
retains his basis of realism.
The paintings here are pleas-
ing in their own right; but it
would seem more likely that
Plate will find' his happiest
home with the Melbourne
group of Pugh, Boyd and
Perceval, who also make a
stylised approach to Nature,
rather than with any of the
more barren forms of abstrac-
tion practised in Sydney.
Films
“Li’l Abner”
The collection of dotty hill-
billy characters created by Al
Capp in his famed cartoon-
strip leap, cavort and whizz
around the rustic environs of
Dogpatch in this high-speed
musical account of their acti-
vities, in which the accent is
always on athletic dancing in
the mass —and these numerous
sequences, it must be conceded,
are marked by enormous
exhilaration.
The rest of the haywire
proceedings —the paper-thin
plot concerns the blood-
pressurised consequences flow-
ing from a Government
evacuation-order to the inhabi-
tants, their bucolic stamping-
ground having been taken-
over for nuclear tests —is
liberally shot-through with
irreverent and clever cracks
at everyone from dollar-
worshipping tycoons to stuffy
bureaucrats, all fired-off with
the abandon of kids on cracker-
night. It’s strictly for the
followers of Al.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
♦♦♦ *** »>
“The Summer Wind Blows”
This Swedish film obviously
attempts to recapture the
atmosphere of ardent romance
which invested “One Summer
Of Happiness.” But whereas
the earlier film charmingly
told of the awakening of love
in two innocent youngsters,
this one deals with a man who
leaves home to get away from
the monotony of his dead-end
job and has an affair with a
hard - bitten woman with
nymphomaniacal tendencies,
leaves her, but finds the
attraction too strong and
returns.
In no phase does the film
get anywhere near the quality
of its predecessor, not even in
the imitatory sequence in
which a girl runs nude around
a lakeside and is photographed
through rushes in fading light.
The acting is nevertheless
sincere.
At Sydney Gala.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale”
PATRICK & COMPANY
Sydney.
K. H. AIXEN
P. R. LEVY
M. B. L. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange .
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911 (10 lines)
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Moulded Products (A/asia), Ltd.
Plastics giant, Moulded Products
(Australasia), Ltd., contemplates
large-scale expansion in the near future.
It is about to raise over £2 million per
medium of simultaneous share- and note-
issues—one ss. ord. for every four ss.
ords. and/or 7s. 6d. notes at a premium
of 95., and one 10s. 7 p.c. unsecured
convertible note for every five ss. ords.
and/or 7s. 6d. notes, applications to
close on August 1. The notes will be
converted on June 30, 1966 ; the basis
of conversion, one ss. ord. at a premium
of ss. for every note then held.
Terms of issue include full subscription
by June 30, 1961. Ord. capital will then
reach £1,771,444. In addition to the
currently proposed note-issue, there are,
as well, 1,987,622 7s. 6d. notes due for
conversion on June 30, 1964, involving
a capital-adcfition of £496,905. By June
30, 1966 (ignoring capital expansion, if
any, in the meantime), ord. capital will
have grown to £2,631,284 —almost twice
its present size.
Shareholders may well ponder the
maintenance of existing div.-rates when
equity is increased. The answer, essen-
tially a question of profitability—that is,
earnings in relation to capital and re-
serves —will devolve, in essence, on
efficient and economic digestion of the
new funds and the opportunity given
their full utilisation.
The development of new plastic
materials and the increasing—and seem-
ingly limitless —uses to which plastics can
be put, continue to add to the already
attractive prospects of the plastics in-
dustry.
But recent liberalisation of import-
restrictions promise an era of adjustment
within the industry. Australian plastic
manufacturers must face increasing com-
petition from overseas. The industry,
nevertheless, remains a province of vast
and almost unlimited potential, with
many new and as yet unenvisaged market
possibilities ahead.
Originally an offshoot of Dunlop
Rubber, Moulded Products was passed-
over to private interests in 1936, six
years after formation, the public being
offered a share-interest in 1939. Since
then paid capital has leapt from £24,502
to £1,725,899 (including £408,125 in 6^
p.c. prefs.). The only bonus-issue during
this period was in the form of compen-
sation to pref. shareholders affected by
adjustments to the pref. div.-rate. A
steady 14 p.c. has been paid on the ords.
for each of the last ten years.
The largest manufacturer of plastic
articles in the southern hemisphere—-
the co. controls 22 subsidiaries in Vic.,
N.S.W., Queensland, S.A., and W.A.—and
a sizeable producer of P.V.C. moulding-
powder for use by other manufacturers,
Moulded Products has participated to
the full in the development of the plastics
industry as a whole. At the same time
the co. has absorbed various rival and
allied concerns ; the purchase of W. F.
Birch Pty. and Amalgamated Plastics
(A/asia), Ltd., being followed in 1956
by a successful takeover-bid for Pier-
wood Plastics, Ltd., of Sydney, and the
acquisition of outside shareholders’
interests in Flexible Plastics Pty.
Last year the co. acquired, through
share-exchanges, the paid capitals of
Trigg Palfrey Pty. (Melbourne), Indus-
trial Synthetics Pty. (Sydney), Stevens
Plastics Pty. (Sydney) and Westralian
Plastics Pty. (Perth), the activities of
these new subsidiaries ranging from
blow-moulding and extrusion to the
manufacture of plastic “biscuits" used in
the production of gramophone-records.
The biggest of Moulded Products’ fac-
tories are centred around Melbourne,
the host of plastic and plastic-coated
goods turned out by the group—and dis-
tributed by an Australia-wide sales
organisation—including agricultural and
industrial piping, insulated wires and
cables, vinyl-coated fabrics, laminated
sheet and tubing, polythene film, rain-
wear, toys, floor-tiles and domestic
utensils, plastic - laminated decorative-
hardboard, polythene-coated papers and
styrene foam.
Group turnover rose 20 p.c. last term
despite vigorous competition. Activities
of the newly acquired subsidiaries helped.
Higher by £60,819 at £388,697, con-
solidated net profit was reckoned after
providing £253,883 (up £59,015) for taxa-
tion and £348,272 (up £51,395) for depre-
ciation :
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
,/ Dividends--— N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 64 p.c. 14 p.c. serves. serves.
£ ~ £/ £ £ £
1956. .268,910 26,528 130,517 111,865 1,012,987
Profit sale assets, £1337 .. .. 1,014,324
Share-premiums, £70,084 .. .. 1,084,408
Added to surplus, par over cost,
shares in subsids., £765 . . . . 1,085,173
1957. .316.641 26,528 135,825 154,288 1,239,461
Note-issue expenses, £10,352 1,229,109
Profit sale assets, £11,675 .. .. 1,240,781
Less reduction in surplus of par over
cost of shares In subsids., £6759 .. 1,234,025
Share-premiums, £125,844 .. .. 1,359,869
1958. 26,528 156,299 145,051 1,504,920
Profit sale assets, £13,900 .. .. 1,518,820
Less reduction in surplus of par over
cost of shares in subsids., £105,229 1,413,591
Share-premiums, £176,362 .. .. 1,58ft,953
Unexplained addition, £1561 . . 1,591,514
1959. .388,697 26,528 184,488 177,681 1,769T95
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
Earnings, after covering the 6jr p.c.
pref.-div., represented 27.5 p.c. on ord.
capital (average), compared with 27 p.c.
(average), 29.9 p.c., 26 p.c. and 36.7 p.c.
back to 1955. Reserves benefited by
£177,681 of undistributed profits (46 p.c.
of total profits); and augmented by sur-
pluses on sale of assets £13,900, share
premiums £176,362 (businesses acquired),
less reduction in surplus of par over cost
of shares in subsidiaries (£105,229), rose
£264,275 to £1,769,195.
Total investment in fixed assets
during the twelve months w'as approxi-
mately £920,000 (before depreciation).
The book-value of plant rose £397,414
to £ 1,942,625 —largely through businesses
acquired. Freeholds went up £174,372
to £1,239,865:
Consummated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref £408,125 £408,125 £408,125
Ord 980,826 1,242,639 1,317,774
Reserves . . .. 1,239,461 1,504,920 1,769,195
Outside interests.. 101,250 101,250 101,250
Mortgage . . . . 293,945 282,817 281,588
Debentures .. 250,000 250,000 250,000
Unsecured notes.. 251,687 559,948 745,358
Overdraft . . . . 383,332 317,033 548,085
Deposits . . .. 134,391 128,757 179,535
Creditors . . .. 696,908 544,633 1,086,690
Tax provision .. 319,898 359,485 451,274
Final divs. . . 92,055 110,158 118,686
£5,157,878 £5,809,765 £7,257,500
' Freeholds, etc. . . 928,309 1,065,493 1,239,805
Plant, etc. . . 1,282,923 1,545,211 1,942,625
Shares subsid. . . 83,131 45,131 45,131
Stocks .. .. 1,824,680 1,899,992 2,278,282
Debtors .. .. 1,013,630 1,227,743 1,726,022
Loan, etc... .. 25,205 26,195 25,635
£5,157,878 £5,809,765 £7,257,560
Geared to rising sales, sundry debtors
rose £498,279 (£1,726,022). Stocks rose
£378,290 (£2,278,282). Bank accommo-
dation and creditors, relied upon to an
increased extent, reached £548,085 (up
£231,052) and £1,086,690 (up £542,057)
respectively. Theoretical working-capital
showed little movement.
Much of Moulded Products’ progress
has been achieved by apparently high and
consistent earning-rates. Ploughed-back
profits figure prominently in the co.’s
finances. But fixed-interest and con-
vertible-note money is relied upon to an
increasing extent. Last term deposits,
mostly long-term, rose by £50,778 to
£179,535 ; unsecured notes rose by
£185,410 to £745,358.
So far sales have been riding at higher
levels than was the case twelve months
ago.
Investors are confident that Moulded
Products will hold its place in the plastics
industry. Supported by net tangible
assets to the extent of 11s. 9d., the
f.-p. ss. ords. last sold at 245. 6d.
In view of the fact that ordinary
capital has the help of more than £-for-£
of reserves, thus reducing visible earn-
ing-power in relation to shareholders'
funds to less than half that indicated
on capital, it is surprising that the
charging of a 9s. premium (180 p.c.) on
the new ss. ords. has not dampened
somewhat the market’s enthusiasm for


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 5771-2-3
406 COEEINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralpbkingr” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stork- Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
(•round I-'loor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVii'XCO"
Phone: SI 2761 <t Dines) P-O. Box No. IBtmt
the shares and convertible notes. The
board has expressed a long-term view of
profit-earning in charging this premium.
Premium on the convertible-note issue,
in which ord.-holders participate, is 100
p.c. Both ord. and note issues are at
present priced at a figure where the
yield is low in the absence of full par-
ticipation by holders in the market
premium when new capital-issues are
made.
The purchaser of the ords. at 245. 6d.
who takes up his rights to both ords.
and notes in the new issue would still
be receiving less than 3i p.c. on his out-
lay even if the notes were immediately
convertible into ords. paying 14 p.c.
York Motors (Holding), Ltd.
T ast year proved difficult for this active
Sydney - registered motor - vehicles
distributor. Both N.S.W. and Queensland
franchises showed reduced profits. The
fall in turnover from motor-vehicles and
spare-parts distribution, evident in the
preceding term, was further accentuated.
The heaviest blows came by way of
termination of profitable Chrysler car.
Dodge truck and Simca franchises. In
Queensland, York Motors closed-down
its assembly-plant, the British Motor
Corporation having commenced assembly
of all its products.
In common with other h.-p. firms,
the subsidiary finance-co., Glasgow In-
vestments Pty., which does “house” and
outside business, was forced to absorb
rising costs which could not be passed-
on, because of the stiffening competition.
Although h.-p. debtors increased, net
earnings were lower.
The lost Chrysler, Dodge and Simca
lines have been replaced by Peugeot and
Renault franchises. This made it possible
to amalgamate Dominion Motors (sub-
sidiary) and York Motors sales-facilities
and to distribute through a unified sales-
system Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Studebaker,
Peugeot and Renault cars, and Willys
Jeeps and trucks. The streamlining of
distribution-mechanism should make for
improved efficiency and reduced costs.
Reduction in profit-margins on some
spare-parts due to intensifying competi-
tion was another adverse factor.
The co. was formed in 1939 to take-
over the issued capital of York Motors
Pty. (established in 1932), which has re-
mained the main operating subsidiary.
York Motors (Holding), Ltd., shares were
first quoted officially in 1947. Paid
capital was then £312,000. Subsequent
issues in 1948, 1950 and 1952 raised
subscribed capital to £906,666, in ss.
f.-p. ords.
Wholly-owned subsidiaries operate as
dealers in defined areas in N.S.W., dis-
tributing Wolseley and Riley cars and
Nuffield tractors, and also handle Rolls-
Royce, Bentley, Howard rotary-hoe,
Peugeot and Renault (the last two re-
cently replacing Chrysler, Dodge and
Simca) franchises.
In Queensland the group is represented
by U.K. Motors Pty. (State-distributor
of Austin products) and Dominion
Motors (Queensland) Pty., handling the
Queensland franchise for Rolls-Royce
and Bentley cars, Willys trucks, Oliver
tractors and Britstand and Aveling-
Barford road-machinery, etc. The group
also in Willys Motors (Aust.)
Pty.—an offshoot of the Jeep-minded
Willys Motor Corporation of U.S.
Sales of tractors, road - building
machinery, agricultural implements, etc.,
in Queensland were “more profitable”
than in the preceding year, but this failed
to reverse the fall in profits in other
sections of the business.
Gross trading-profit from all sources,
plus miscellaneous revenue for the year
ended November 30, 1959, was £lBB,BBl
lower at £1,488,904. Expenses were
£70,592 down at £1,283,349 (including
£25,996 depreciation, down £367). After
providing £58,458 for taxation (down
£55,715) consolidated net profit for the
year was £62,574 lower at £147,097:
Consolidated Figuhe'.
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. , Dividends — serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951. .929,256 30 p.c. = 204,000 725,256 1,989,300
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 1,969,300
Less net adjustments, £4B . . .. 1,969,252
1952. .480,521 30 p.c. = 223,833 256,05 S 2,225,940
Add net adjustments, £689 .. .. 2,226,629
1953. .413,100 30 p.c. = 272,000 141,100 2.367,729
1954. .502,364 30 „ ~ 272,000 230,364 2,598,093
From stock reserve, £200,000 .. 2,798,093
1955..440.630 30 p.c. = 272,000 168,630 2.966,723
Added intangibles, £ 19,807 .. .. 2.946,916
1956. .240,539 224p.c.= 204,000 36,53 b 2,983,455
Tax underprovided, £4796 .. .. 2,978,659
Capital profits, £29,906 .. .. 3,008,565
Intangibles w/off, £5167 . . . . 3,013,732
Reductions spec, reserve, £12,203 . . 3.001,529
1957. .203.333 20 p.c.= 181,332 82,001 3.083,530
Note-issue expenses, vv/off, £15,903.. 3,067,627
Reduction contingency reserve, £6903 3,060,724
Capital profits, £49,222 . . . . 3,109,946
1958. .209,671 20 p.c. = 181,332 28.339 3,138,285
Less franchise—termination losses,
£21,302 3,116,983
, Capital profit, £64,764 .. .. 3,181,747
1909. . 147,097 15 p.c. = 130,000 11,j)97 3,192,844
* After deducting intangibles written out of the
accounts in 1958.
This was equivalent to &n earning-rate
of 16.2 p.c. on the unchanged average
ord. capital, compared with 23.1 p.c. in
the previous term, 29 p.c. in 1957, 26.5
p.c. in 1956 and 48.6 p.c. in 1955. The
steady downward trend in profit - rates
continues as competition intensifies and
costs eat-away profit-margins.
Div.-rate was cut from 20 p.c. to 15
p.c. (absorbing £136,000). The latest
interim-div. indicates further reduction
to a I2j p.c. annual rate.
During last year the group disposed
of 10,000 20s. prefs. in Chrysler Aus-
tralia, Ltd., and also sold part of its
land in Waterloo* Sydney. The two
transactions resulted in a capital profit
of £64,764. At the same time losses con-
nected with termination of Chrysler,
Dodge and Simca franchises amounted
to £21,302.
Reserves received £11,097 and visibly
totalled £3,192,844, free of intangibles,
giving a high tangible assets cover of 225.
3d. for each 3,626,664 ss. ord. making-up
the co.’s £906,666 paid capital. Overdraft
increased by £41,738 to £245,309. Notes
remained unchanged at £1,200,000, but
£600,000 will mature in September.
Deposits on short call were £167,410
lower at £696,299:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
19.37. 1938. 1959.
Paid capital .. £000,606 £906,666 £900,606
Reserves .. . . 3,098,170 3,138,285 3,192,844
Overdraft .. .. 90,459 203,571 245,309
Notes, etc. .. 600,000 1,200,000 1,200,000
Deposits . . . . 934,334 863,709 696,299
Creditors, etc. .. 723,271 580,314 600,852
Unearned income.. 372,549 453,382 472,751
Tax provision .. 154,831 114,482 59,385
Staff fund .. 25,000 25,000 20,031
£6,905,280 £7,485,409 £7,894,137
Freeholds, etc. .. 605,886 441,925 521,550
Plant .. ... 187,365 172,879 109,939
Stocks .. .. 2,169,915 2,113,382 1,828,419
Debtors .. .. 718,204 793,664 467,822
H.-p. accounts .. 3,069,983 3,892,421 4,044,302
Investments .. 77,036 69,272 59,272
Cash, etc. 62,251 1,866 302,833
Intangibles .. 14,640
£6,905,280 £7,485,409 £7,394,137
Unearned h.p. income was £19,369
higher at £472,751. Stocks and debtors
together were £610,805 lower than in
1958, reflecting a poorer year.
H.-p. outstandings increased by
£151,881 to £4,044,302. Cash, etc., went
up by £300,967.
The motor-vehicles industry is still
booming. Registrations in each month
of the current first quarter have been
substantially higher than in the corre-
sponding period of 1959. Some of the
lines handled by the group have slightly
edged-up their share of the total Aus-
tralian market.
However, a lot of capital has been
attracted into the industry by big profits
made earlier in the game. Business
rivalry is becoming keen and ruthless,
and even such major distributors as
York Motors find it necessary to push
hard for their sales.
The co. remains in good shape a
well-organised and strong group with
the ability for making sustained, vigorous
thrusts on a difficult market. However,
it may be optimistic to expect a return
to the high earnings of the early and
mid-fifties. The div.-policy likewise re-
mains an open question.
York Motors expect better results in
the current term. Newly-acquired fran-
chises should show their full potential.
The uplift in new motor-vehicles sales
evident late in 1959 has continued into
1960.
Profits of the N.S.W. and Queensland
motor-subsidiaries for the first four
months of current term are “higher than
for any four months’ period in the pre-
vious financial year.”
The co. is hopeful about future saies


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant
supervision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - 27-3444
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
investments
LIMITED
issue AT PAR (£100) OF £1.000,000
REGISTERED
STOCK
DEBENTURE
INVEST NOW
interest rates:
8% per annum 3 y®* r * or more
7% per annum 2 y®* r *
6% per annum | year
5% per annum months
a
.VA
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS OR MORE
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £11,000,000. ASSET BACKING, £1,086
FOR EACH £lOO OF REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE' STOCK
Application for Debentures may only be made on the application
Forms attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
PARKER & STEWART
Underwriting Broker*,
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
56 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phonet BW 1057.
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or direct from the Company
or its subsidiaries.
LATEC FINANCE PTY. LTD.
113-115 William Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: FA 6681.
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Latec House,
741 Hunter Street,
NEWCASTLE WEST, N.S.W.
Phone: MA 4344.
SY3O6IAB
LfITEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANKLIN ARTHUR ROBINSOU
late of Sclilapp Street Broken Hill in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARLENE ANNE ROBIN-
SON has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
4047 of 1959 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act, 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Macquarie
Street Sydney by Bth August 1960 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MARSHALL MARKS
DEZARNAULDS & JONES, Solicitors,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—•
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
of Studebaker cars and trucks
to be assembled in Australia
by next September.
At the last sale in Sydney
the ss. ords. fetched 12s. 6d.
each. The immediate yield was
5 p.c. p.a. on the basis of the
expected p.c. div.-rate.
Fairymead Sugar Co., Ltd.
The principal worry of the
world sugar-industry is the
fact that effective demand for
sugar has always lagged a
couple of paces behind supply,
in spite of both production and
consumption increasing steadily
since the end of the war.
Oversupply of sugar de-
presses international and
domestic prices. The industry
has been operating under a set
of strict and complicated pro-
duction and marketing con-
trols, imposed in the hope of
affording some degree of pro-
tection to the producers.
Fairymead Sugar Co., Ltd.,
Queensland - registered sugar-
miller and -grower, operates
under the familiar difficulties
of Australian sugar-producers.
Domestic sugar-production
works under the “mill-peaks”
system. The return from out-
put within the local quotas
(called “mill-peaks”) assigned
to individual mills determines
the “No. 1 pool” price. Sugar
produced in excess of the
quota-allocation is purchased
at considerably lower rates,
intended to discourage surplus
production.
In 1958-59 world consump-
tion of sugar was a record
47,740,000 metric tons, repre-
senting an increase of 3,115,000
m. tons or about 6.98 p.c.
However, accumulated stocks
were augmented by a further
2,470,000 m.tons, and the inter-
national price for raws re-
mained below 3 U.S. cents a
lb., except for one isolated peak
of 3.17 c.
This influenced the estimated
final price for “No. 1 pool”
sugar in Australia, which
dropped by 14s. sd. a ton to
£46 10s. (94 n.t.).
Total Australian production
of sugar for 1959 was esti-
mated at 1,288,000 tons (94
n. a decrease of 124,000 tons
compared with the preceding
year. The return to Australian
growers was £4 2s. 7d. per ton
of cane crushed.
Fairymead was affected along
with other Australian growers
and millers. To fill the co.’s
“mill-peak” quota of 37,500
tons (94 n.t.) plus a small
margin, only 267,169 tons of
cane were required, 63,831 tons
less than in the previous term.
“Quite a substantial tonnage
had to be left standing.”
Apart from growing and
milling sugar in the Bundaberg
district of Queensland (main
source of profits) the co. has
copra and trading interests in
the Solomon Islands and owns
a cattle-run in N.S.W.


ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. FF 3931.
Represented in alt States. Telegrams: Hydetec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
I
ASSU RAHCEt
Old established, sound and progressive, the
“Metropolitan Life” is a completely Australian financial
institution, providing a variety of attractive policies to
suit every purse and purpose.
You will find the “Metropolitan” representa-
tive to be a friendly and courteous advisor.
AUSTRALIAN METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
. (Inc. in Qld. 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney
INVESTORS ! ! !
INVESTMENT
ADVISORY BUREAU
offers a
12 MONTHS 1 SERVICE
% Keep informed on the latest Stock Exchange moves
by subscribing to our investment letter service.
® A.M.I. shareholders know of our amazing predic-
tions on these and other shares made last year.
@ M.K.U. shareholders are still discussing our
predictions.
% These are but a few of the wonderfully accurate
forecasts subscribers have enjoyed from our service.
% Send £5/5/-, fill in the coupon below and receive a
FREE COPY of our May letter, plus our future
service, to: —
INVESTMENT ADVISORY BUREAU,
Suite 19, 377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
NAME _ -
ADDRESS -
Phone -
Despite the lower tonnage of
cane crushed, Fairymead edged-
up its net profit for the year
ended December 31, 1959, by
£12,233 to £180,079:
Re-
Dee., Profit. ~ Dividend serves.*
£ £ £
’53..137,618 12 p.c. = 90,000 1,052,180
Added replacement reserve,
£51,316 1,103,496
To insurance res., £2500. . 1,105,996
’54..185,018 14 p.c. =105,000 1,186,014
Added replacement reserve,
£37,224 1,223,238
To insurance res., £415.. 1,228,6-53
’55..131,655 12 p.c. = 90,000 1,265,30*8
Added replacement reserve.
£60,828 .. ... .. 1,326,136
To insurance res., £1431.. 1.327,567
’56..201US 18 12 p.e. =■ 90,000 1,438,885
Added replacement reserve,
£10330 1,449,715-
Profit sale assets, £53,095 1,502,810
*57.. 9,394 12 p.e.= 90.000 1,422,264
Profit sale assets, £24,806 1,447,010
Added replacement reserve,
£61,095 1,508,105
'58.. 167,846 12p.e.= 90,000 1,585,951
Profit sale assets, £67 . . 1.586,0! 8
Added replacement reserve,
£68,418 .. .. 1,654,436
’59..180,079 12 p.c. = 90,000 1,744,515
* Includes replacement reserve
£763,402, and vessels- insurance re-
serve, £16,846, at 31/12/*59.
This was after setting-aside
£77,067 depreciation (up £7267)
and making an undisclosed pro-
vision for tax. The cattle
section of Fairymead’s business
“contributed its fair share of
the year’s profits.” Milling
operations were reported to be
very satisfactory.
The profit was equivalent to
an earning-rate of 24 p.c. on
the unchanged average ord.
capital, compared with 22.3 p.c.
the year before and a drought-
stricken 1.2 p.c. in 1957, 26.8
p.c. in 1956, 17.6 p.c. in 1955
and 24.6 p.c. in 1954.
Div.-rate remained steady at
12 p.c., absorbing £90,000. Re-
serves received £90,079 and
also benefited by £67 profit on
sale of assets and £68,418
additions to the “replacement
reserve.”
Visible reserves and undis-
tributed profits were disclosed
at £1,744,515, including
£763,402 “replacement reserve”
and £16,846 vessels-insui ance
reserve:
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £750,00*0 £ 750,000
Reserves .. 1,585,951 1,744,515
Creditors, etc.* 1,399,9*77 1,258,148
Final div. . . -}5,000 45,000
£3,780,928 £3,797,663
Estates .. . . 473343 452,756
Factories, etc. . . 2,046,038 2,157,521
Shares in subsid. 7300 7,80*0
livestock .. 40,292 41,674
Stocks, etc. .. 278,700 223,494
Rook debts .. 929,624 909,323
Cash, etc. .. 4,631 5,095
£3,780,928 £3,797,663
* Includes provision for taxation,
overdraft, etc.'
Property sales may have
caused the further reduction in
book-value of “landed estates”
(by £11,087 to £452,756). Fac-
tories were £111,483 higher at
£2,157,521.
Stocks were brought down by
£55,206 to £223,494. Creditors,
tax-provision, etc., lumped to-
gether under “current liabili-
ties,” decreased by £141,829.
After the balance-date the
co. revalued some of its assets.
Book-values were written-up
by £750,000. This amount will
be used shortly to make a one-
for-one bonus-issue, doubling
paid capital to £1,500,000.
Directors anticipate that the
div.-rate on the bonus-doubled
capital will be not less than 7
p.c. p.a., equivalent to 14 p.c.
on the pre-bonus capital of
£750,000, on which 12 p.c. was
paid.
Shareholders will get an
effective increase of 2 p.c. in
the div.-rate.
in spite of some fluctuations
in earnings and *two very poor
years (1957 and 1951), Fairy-
mead has maintained a credit-
able dividend record. Subject
to seasonal and marketing diffi-
culties inherent in the sugar-
industry, the co.’s accounts
reflect a strong position.
The co. says “there is every'
indication that a crop to pro-
duce the mill-peak will be avail-
able for the 1960 crushing.”
The more important question
seems to be how much of this
season’s cane will be left as
“stand-overs.”
Under the British Common-
wealth Sugar Agreement Aus-
tralia’s negotiated-price com-
ponent of the overall 1960
export - quota will be about
316,500 tons. The 1960 basic
export-quota under the Com-
monwealth and International
Sugar Agreements will be
approximately 650,708 tons (up
18,746 tons). This may help,
but the world sugar-market will
most likely still be oversupplied.
News of the one-for-one
bonus handout lifted Fairy-
mead's scrip to 78s. (cum
rights) for each 20s. ord.
Calculating the theoretical
ex-rights price at 395. a share,
the immediate yield would be
3.6 p.c. on the basis of the
forecast 7 p.c. div. on the
bonus - enlarged capital. The
return, a/m-rights, is 3.1 p.c.
on the 12 p.c. div.
Net tangible asset-backing
worked-out at a visible 675. 2d.
for each 20s. unit at Decem-
ber 31. 1959.


WOOL ISSUE
1960
THE SHEEP SHOW
By GEORGE B. S. FALKINER
"Country Life” photo.
(President, N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Association)
IT is, needless to say, a
source of great satisfac-
tion to the Council of
the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Association and to myself
personally that the entries in
this year s Sydney Sheep
Show known as the Mac-
arthur Show, in honor of the
pioneer constitute an all-time
record.
The interest shown in N.
S. Wales and in all other
States is not only a worthy
tribute to Macarthur. It is an
indication of the continued
strength of our industry,
despite the obstacles which
perennially face it.
The Sheep Show is an organ-
ised effort to exhibit what
can be achieved by concentra-
tion on the complex task of
producing high-grade stud-
sheep. It is truly a “window
display” for our great industry,
While that display continues
on standard seen last year,
a nd again this year, there is
reason for great hope for the
future.
Clearly, sheepbreeders have
no t ] ost interest in their work.
They are still learning, experi-
menting and persevering,
always with the objective of
raising the general standard
G f our woo i This has, indeed,
been true from the very
earliest times. It is no acci-
dent that Australia leads the
world in wool-production.
It is a popular misconcep-
tion that our supremacy is
due primarily to good fortune
in possessing an ideal climate
and suitable soils and vegeta-
tion for wool-production. It
is true that we have been
extremely fortunate in pos-
sessing suitable conditions,
but these conditions alone
would not have brought about
our present pre-eminent posi-
tion. We also did not start
off with any advantage in
regard to types of sheep. Other
countries had better sheep.
Basically, the success of
woolgrowing in this country
has been due to the organisa-
tion of the sheep-industry and
the actual stud structure
created over the last 150 years.
The industry has not grown
like Topsy. It has grown
because dedicated and skilled
people have devoted their lives
to breeding high-quality stud-
sheep.
Australia’s pre-eminence as
a wool-producing country is
due to the fact that wool-
growers have had access for
breeding purposes to stud-
sheep of a quality quite un-
surpassed in any other wool-
growing country. The stud-
breeders’ efforts would, how-
ever, have been fruitless if
there had not been a consider-
able number of woolgrowers
with sufficient courage and
foresight to buy quality rather
than cheaper rams of inferior
type. Often this has meant
immediate financial sacrifice
on the part of the growers,


tv
r
tr
4*
VC.
v-C.
V
I
•- \ *
»*
&
a®;
*
V- xJ*
a;*,
$
K
:?>'
2?
IT
Vf
» ,- — 4_ r 'T’m- - X
' JP T*
s
tv
g&f*
•v)f»ik!
Australia’s genius is wool..
You can see it in the gentle way of the sheep breeder as he prides a majestic Merino for
a coveted show ribbon; you can see it in the sensitive hands of the classer, who at a
finger’s touch, will tell you the past and the future of the grower’s clip. You will see it
in the dedication of the Australian scientist who made it possible for fine, soft wools
to perform with the mundane practicality of lesser fibres. Above all you will see it in the
design of Australian fashions; for here the genius of wool becomes truly a way of living.
Only in wool can Australians find the sophistication of texture, the u feel”, the warmth
to express their easy, relaxed way of life. For clothes that live with you . .
WOOL
s
a
a natural
AUSTRALIAN WOOL BUREAU W«


but the tangible result has been
the remarkable progress both
in the quality of wool pro-
duced and in the yield per
sheep.
This year’s record Sheep
Show entries indicate once
again that our industry will
not be kept back by tem-
porary discouragement in its
many forms. There is plenty
of discouragement today, but
our Sheep Show is the greatest
yet held! This is in the true
tradition of the industry.
If any man suffered dis-
couragement, it was John
Macarthur. Looking back on
his efforts, one cannot help
but feel amazement at his per-
severance. He had a burning
faith in wool and nothing
could quench it. Imagine the
enthusiasm needed to battle
“Country Life” photo.
Border-Leicesters at Carrah (N.S.W.).
against the difficulties of those
days. His visits to England
by sail alone involved
incredible delays, perils and
hardships, and all would have
been lost but for the faithful
efforts of his wife, under his
directions, during his absence.
He was also raising sheep
on land somewhat unsuitable
for stud Merinos, being com-
pletely unaware of the poten-
tial of the country west of the
Blue Mountains. One cannot,
indeed, escape the thought
that Macarthur’s high hopes
were not justified by public
opinion in Australia at that
time. The vastness of the
country was, however, known,
and one can credit him with
the belief that, in the whole
of the continent, there would
be conditions suitable for
raising sheep.
Whatever his reasons may
have been, Macarthur allowed
nothing to divert him from his
goal. He saw Australia as the
source of vast quantities of
fine wool for the growing
textile-mills of his homeland,
and he lived to see his dream
coming true. It is clear that
the Australian wool-industry
was responsible in no small
measure for the Victorian era
of Empire-building,
With great quantities of un-
surpassed wool at their dis-
posal the British mills were
soon supplying the whole
world with manufactured
wool-products, while large
numbers of people were
employed in them. The wealth
that Britain gained from tex-
tiles made from Australian
wool undoubtedly contributed
greatly to her economic
strength.
Macarthur’s determination
is an object-lesson for the wool-
industry of today. The indus-
try has passed through many
crises, but I venture to say
that it has never been in
greater peril than at present.
It is anomalous that, while
costs are, in many instances,
making woolgrowing a money-
losing occupation, investors
are reaping unprecedented
returns from factories of many
kinds, building - development
and other activities and under-
takings outside primary indus-
try. No wonder many pro-
ducers and, particularly,
stud-breeders are wonder-
ing whether their lifelong
work is worth-while.
Woolgrowers’ costs are a
grave problem—so grave,
indeed, that some higher-cost
producers have already quit
their holdings.
Stud-breeders are faced
with far greater costs, because,
for them, woolgrowing is only
a sideline.
Costs involved in running a
stud-sheep property, including
executives’ salaries, labor and
materials and drought expenses,
are about three or four times
those incurred for the ordinary
woolgrowing proposition with
the same number of sheep.
If wool-men took the short-
term view—and some are,
indeed, taking that view—they
would quit the industry with-
out delay. There is nothing
on the horizon yet to indicate
a rise in prices to compensate
for costs and, even if such
increases were assured, it is
doubtful whether they would
be advantageous.
At the present prices, we
are at least selling every pound
of wool produced, but a sharp
rise in price could soon open
the way to severe competition
from man-made fibres. This
competition has already
occurred in the U.S.A., as the
price there has been raised by
a tariff of 25 cents per lb. on
clean wool of Merino type.
Some action has already
been taken to check the cost-
spiral, but the position of the
wool-industry is still danger-
ous. In the circumstances, it
is only commonsense, while
keeping a sharp watch on
costs, to give every possible
encouragement to wool-
growing. If those engaged in
an essential national industry
cannot enjoy the advantages
of large dividends on their
invested capital, they should
at least be encouraged by an
alleviation of taxation and
probate charges, which are
particularly onerous on stud-
breeders.
There should be a com-
pletely impartial examination
of the embargo on the export
of Merino sheep, to find out
whether it is really justified
or should be removed forth-
with, as advocated by the late
chairman of the C.5.1.R.0.,
Sir lan Clunies Ross, and
other acknowledged authori-
ties.
It must be constantly
pointed-out that, despite the
phenomenal internal progress
in other spheres, the wool-
industry is still the bulwark
of the Australian export
economy. A recent survey
shows that, despite the expan-
sion in the non-farming
sectors of our economy, wool
still constitutes somewhere
around 7.5 per cent, of our
national prqduct.
If one excludes the abnor-
mal years of the Korean War
period, when it rose to 18.15
per cent., the interesting fact
emerges that, in 1928-29, it was
still round about the same
figure (actually 7.8 per cent.).
This means that, despite
our huge industrial expansion,
wool has maintained its posi-
tion —a state of affairs which
could only have happened
with the continued improve-
ment of the sheep-industry.
This has gone hand-in-hand
with the progressive work of
the responsible studs.
The tremendous strides
made by the industry are
shown by the increase in
sheep numbers from 112.9
million in 1950 to 152.7 million
in 1959. In the same period
production increased from
1117.5m.1b., greasy, to
1670m.1b.
As the recent survey shows,
wool gives us about 50 per
cent, of the total revenue from
exports required to earn much-
needed foreign exchange, and,
despite all the hopes for other


steel sheepyards for less than the cost of timber!
t?m
i
siM
m
m
m
m
>m
m
%mmM
mmmM
w&m ?§,
mm
If
m
m
mm
mKBBk
W
El
m
w-
mmm
wmmM
1
m
r m
m
m
mm
km
mm*
m
rm
m
m
- ::•
4m
M
M-
f/tsirtAMS, '*aGGa AAGCA. n iW.
w
//
s
H
E
E
P
Y
A
R
S
D
M
E
H
Weldmesh Sheepyard Mesh provides strong,
stockproof sheepyards that will last for years
and years . . . and cost less than timber! Add
to this the advantages of quick erection,
adaptability and everlasting fire and rot-
Manufactured by:
A member of the Group of Companies
Associated companies in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Townsville, Perth, Hobart and Launceston.
resisting qualities and WELDMESH SHEEP-
YARD MESH proves itself! Follow the lead of
thousands of other graziers throughout Australia
build or rebuild your sheepyards with
Weldmesh Sheepyard Mesh.
export goods (primary and
manufactured), only wool is
in a reasonably unassailable
position.
Much of the present remark-
able development in Australia
is due to the recent unpre-
cedented inflow of capital. It
is this capital, equivalent to
approximately £2OO million a
year, which is bridging the
gap between income from
exports and the cost of
imports. -What is sometimes
forgotten is that the overseas
investors will expect a return
from their investment, and the
major factor in earning the
income to meet it must be the
wool-industry.
Every effort must, of course,
be made to increase the
demand for wool so that at
least some price-rise will com-
pensate for the production
costs. Research should be
carried-out in close consulta-
tion with manufacturers and
retailers here and overseas and
wool-promotion methods must
be streamlined. An industry
of such importance should
make use of the finest promo-
tional talent available in the
y or , ,^ e , r, r l , neec * a^so
or highly skilled action on
e diplomatic level in regard
o the continued United States
tariff on Australian wool and
reciprocal trading arrange-
ments with countries which
are willing to buy more wool
i. we purchase more of their
manutactuied products.
In his special message, pub-
lished in this issue, the Deputy
Prime Minister (Mr. McEwen)
has stressed that the Federal
Government’s policy is to
work for the stability and
prosperity of the wool-industry
which John Macarthur
pioneered. It is encouraging
to read his words It is now
up to all engaged in our
industry to advise the Govern-
ment on the steps needed to
overcome the present unsatis-
factory position and the
dangers that clearly lie ahead.


raster
\
7
\
%
\
\
\
A
1- A
\\
\
\fN
Wool is Australia’s biggest business and every wool
man wants to know the WHY of a business proposition.
Here’s WHY it will benefit him to send his clip to the
Jimac WOOL POOL: —
1 The Jimac service offers complete preparation
of a wool clip for sale, including, when
necessary, classing, sorting, piece picking and
re-packing.
2 The Jimac WOOL POOL saves you shed
costs —you can bale direct from the board,
cutting down shed handling, and getting your
wool away much faster.
3 Your oddments and outsorting can be pooled
and sold in large lots, accurately classed to
meet buyers’ requirements.
4 You can consign your wool direct to Jimac,
or have your own broker send your clip to
Jimac for pooling.
5 If you have your wool prepared by Jimac,
your returns are quick, and the average price
is higher.
6 Jimac is staffed with experienced personnel
who give your requirements and your wool
their close personal attention and interest. If
you call at Jimac’s the men who handle your
wool will gladly discuss it with you.
v
JIM AC WOOL POOL
BRIDCLAND BROWN
PTY. LTD.
169 CATHEDRAL STREET. EAST SYDNEY.
HANNEL STREET. NEWCASTLE.


Promotion a “Must” for Progress
By W. A. GUNN
(Chairman of the Wool Bureau)
IN our twentieth - century
economy no mass-pro-
duced article can survive
without promotion and
there is no reason to believe
that a primary product might.
But in any reasoning about
promotion—and in this case
particularly, wool-use promo-
tion —it is necessary to under-
stand that the term means
more than_ advertising and
publicity.
Naturally, advertising is a
major part of the Australian
Wool Bureau's work, but
wool-use promotion, both here
and overseas, calls for a co-
ordination of the efforts of
the scientist, mill-management
and technology, clothing-
and furnishing-manufacturers,
and the retail trade.
It must have co-operation
at all these levels if the best
possible wool merchandise is
to be placed before the buying
public at the most attractive
price.
The bureau, over the past
18 months, has reorganised
and expanded its wool-use
promotion until today it pro-
vides the technical, educational
and promotional services
which wool requires to keep
it in the textile forefront.
The bureau’s work in adver-
tising and publicity promotion
is evident from an inspection
of publicity media. But what
is inclined to go unnoticed is
the:
(o) Product - development
work of the bureau’s technical
development service ;
( b ) the work in conjunction
with C.5.1.R.0. and the Aus-
tralian Wool Testing Author-
ity ; and
(c) the detailed work of co-
ordinating the bureau’s pro-
motion efforts with those of
the trade.
Technical Development
Service
With the Technical Liaison
Service virtually begins the
active wool-promotion work
of the bureau. This compara-
tively new division was created
to take the developments of
C.5.1.R.0. and commercial
firms into industry. They also
take the problems of industry
back to the scientist for
solution.
Before the establishment of
this service there was a gap
between the work of the scien-
tist and the trade, so that on
many occasions the trade was
slow to take-up the new pro-
cesses and finishes for wool.
These are the people who
are often called “sales-
engineers” in commercial
organisations.
The bureau has four tech-
nical officers in this division,
who are currently working on
the trade application of the
Sironised process for wash-
able no-shrink wools and the
“Country Life” photo.
Sorting a clip
Si-Ro-Set permanent pleating
and creasing process.
This technical development
service is the most important
“undercover”-work the bureau
undertakes in the consolida-
tion of the future of wool.
Once the new processes and
finishes for wool are actually
being applied by mills and
manufacturers promotion can
be even more effective.
It takes a year to 18 months
for new processes to get
through the pipeline of end-
product production—even if all
goes well. Where problems
occur it may take two or
three years before maximum
impact of a new process is
felt by the man in the street,
for example Si-Ro-Set.
No retailer was keen to pro-
mote Si-Ro-Set garments while
the major proportion of his
stocks were not Si-Ro-Set.
We have now reached the stage
where all stocks desired are
Si-Ro-Set and the same
retailer is keen to advertise
them at point-of-sale and to
offer them as something new.
This, too, explains why
other great advantages like
stain- and water-repellancy,
moth- and shrink-proofing
are largely promoted by the
particular firm which is apply-
ing the process. In different
fields, too, are the solvent-
degreasing process, the noble-
comb control and other tech-
nical processes which are
reducing the costs of yarns
and, of course, the eventual
cost of woollen end-products
and garments.
Product Promotion
It is on the foundation of
this technical - development
work and the findings of
market - surveys that product
promotion “the window-
dressing for wool” —stands.
From the technical start to
product development to the
sales-merchandising and point-
of-sale contact the bureau
work calls for co-operation
with the trade.
To facilitate this work the
Promotion Directorate, under
Miss Nan Sanders, is divided
into several specialised spheres
covering trade-liaison, retail-
sales, staff-training, advertising
and product-publicity and
merchandising promotions.
The aim of trade co-opera-
tion is for mill, manufacturer
and retailer to join in meeting
the common problems of the
trade.
Meetings of the varied
branches of the industry assist
the planning of the bureau’s
advertising and merchandising
•campaigns for wool.
The displays, parades, com-
petitions and other promotions,
however, are the “best-sellers”
of the bureau’s activities ; and
it is in this field that the
bureau’s work could be said
to have its major impact on
the buying public.
The bureau’s major promo-
tional event of the year is the
annual Wool Fashion Awards
Competition, in which the best
in women’s wool fashions and
knitwear for men receive gold-
medals.
These award-winning gar-
ments are then advertised
extensively throughout the
Commonwealth while the gar-
ments are actually being
offered for sale.
This has proved to stimulate
wool sales, and currently the
gold-medal award-winners for
the 1960 autumn and winter
are being publicised by gala
parades in the 16 highest-
population cities of Australia.
To stimulate a similar
demand in other country
centres, local committees are
encouraged to run “wool
festivals” to “dress the town
and its public” in wool.
A fleece-display competition
is being conducted throughout
country districts in all States ;
and few visitors to our Royal
Shows in capital cities failed
to be impressed by the
bureau’s “wool carnivals.” In
these promotions the Austra-
lian Wool Bureau this year
has promoted: —
Lightweight washable non-shrink
wools for summer wear.
Garments in a wide variety of
styling and design for all outer-
wear occasions.
Washable non-iron shirts, per-
manently creased skirts and
trousers.
Shrinkproof, mothproof, stain-
and water-repellent wool fabrics
and knitwear for all occasions.
Wool-use promotion is an
(Continued on page 49)


MORE PROFIT PER ACRE
With
PLEASANT BANKS RAMS
First to bring Saxon Merinos to Australia 1823.
First to establish Superfine Saxon Merinos on highly improved
pastures.
First to breed Champions whose son and daughter, grandson
and granddaughter were also Champions.
First to grow a fleece o£ 90’s count; to gain 99 points. Atv
Tasmania’s Nat. Show 1959.
SEE THEM AT THE JULY MELBOURNE RAM SALES.
Enquiries to either: or at
A. G. Webster, Woolgrowers, are our Tas. Agents Pleasant Banks, EVANDALE, TASMANIA.
SATISFIED CLIENTS FROM THE WEST OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA TO NORTH OF NEW ENGLAND
The Challenge of Drought in Australia
By Dr. M. C. FRANKLIN
(William Mcllrath Fellow in Animal Husbandry)
As I write this article, I
have just returned to
N.S.W. from a visit to
South Australia. Ex-
cellent autumn rains have
gladdened many a grazier who
has been forced, over the last
twelve months, to reduce
severely his sheep-numbers be-
cause of the very dry conditions
which S.A. had experienced for
many months previously. I
was advised that these dry con-
ditions have reduced the State's
sheep-population by a few
million, and had it not been for
these very welcome autumn
rains a major setback could
have occurred in the sheep-
industry there.
This is not a new picture for
many parts of Australia. A
comprehensive review on the
history of droughts in Austra-
lia was published in 1957 by
the Commonwealth Bureau of
Meteorology, and a careful
perusal of this should be ample
warning to all of us that re-
current droughts will, from
time to time, impose severe
strains on our livestock indus-
try.
It is pertinent to refer to a
few points in that excellent
review. The author, J. C.
Foley, stresses the difficulty of
forecasting periods of low rain-
fall. He points out that long-
term analyses of meteorological
records indicate that the inci-
dence of droughts and dry
periods show no regular
rhythm, even as iegards time of
onset, duration, or extent of
territory affected, and concludes
that there is little or no pros-
pect of successfully forecasting
droughts from an assumed re-
currence of rainfall cycles.
This makes the problem of
drought-control difficult.
Some of the conclusions,
drawn from a variety of
sources, which he has included
in the discussion of control-
measures are interesting. These
measures can be divided
“ Don't you dare refer to your father as an old square!
Daddy's Worth a thousand guineas."
broadly into those which can
be undertaken on a national
scale and those which are
primarily the concern of the
stock-owner. Those which fall
in the former category are:
9 Increased transport and
improved stock-routes to facili-
tate the ready removal of stock
from drought-stricken areas.
9 Fostering of property-
development and fodder-con-
servation by income-tax and
probate concessions.
9 Expansion of advisory
and research services for pas-
toralists.
9 Increase in loan-advances
to pastoralists.
9 Careful examination of
meteorological data in order to
assess the expectation and
probable duration of droughts.
Some of the measures which
Foley lists for control within
the power of individual land-
owners include:
9 The increase and im-
provement of watering-facili-
ties, so that stock may make
greater use of available pas-
tures.
9 Increased fencing to sub-
divide properties and make
better management of pastures
easier.
9 Agistment.
9 Increased fodder-conser-
vation, including, where im-
proved-pastures are not avail-
able, the conservation of bush-
hay.
• Purchase, transport and
storage of fodder in good
seasons when ample supplies of
good-quality fodder are avail-
able at a reasonable price.
9 The development of maxi-
mum feed-reserves by preserv-
ing and planting suitable edible
trees.
This is a broad picture of
some of the more important
measures which could do much
to lessen drought-losses in Aus-
tralia. There is another im-
portant side to the picture, in
that extensive studies have been
undertaken by C.5.1.R.0., the
State Departments of Agricul-
ture and the universities as part
of a concerted attack on this
big Australian problem.
One of the important re-
search-units working in this
field was established over 10
years ago by the C.5.1.R.0. and
the N.S.W. Department of
Agriculture at the Glenfield
Veterinary Research Station,
near Sydney. During this
period approximately 11,000
sheep have been completely
hand-fed on various drought-
rations and results obtained
in these investigations have
yielded information of con-
siderable practical value to the
grazier.
Broadly, the field of activi-
ties in these studies can be
grouped under the following
headings:
1. The Mechanics of Drought
Feeding and Comparison
of Fodders and Nutrient
Requirements of Merino
Weaners and Adult Sheep.
It was shown conclusively


C?SE
O-x# - y " > r;
Hi
OVER
SERVICE TO THE WOOL INDUSTRY
A long association with Australia’s most important
industry means many things; among these are experience,
and knowledge of every phase of the wool business.
A.N.Z. Bank is equipped to give expert service to wool
growers, wool brokers and wool buyers.
Overseas travel bookings and advice about overseas
markets are included in the complete range of banking
services offered by A.N.Z. Bank. A call or enquiry from
you will be welcomed at any branch of the Bank.
A-N-Z
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ANZ453.2458
that periodic (twice-weekly and
weekly) feeding of dry adult
sheep, weaners and pregnant
ewes gave results equally as
good as, and in many instances
better than, daily feeding at the
same level of food-intake. Sur-
vival-rates, wool-production and
uniformity of body-weights were
generally better when sheep
were fed at periodic intervals.
In its practical application,
those associated with this work
have concluded that the in-
terval between feeds should
be restricted to approximately
three- or four-day intervals, al-
though it is recorded that
graziers have followed the re-
search-findings more closely
and have obtained satisfactory
results when the feeding-inter-
val has been increased beyond
this range.
The conception-rates, lamb-
ing-percentages and subsequent
milk-production of Merino
ewes fed at periodic intervals
(not exceeding weekly intervals)
were as good as those of similar
groups of ewes fed daily.
A dult dry sheep, approxi-
mately 751 b. liveweight,
have been maintained in
strong condition for periods
of six months when fed
four food - units a head a
week. Merino weaners,
approximately 401 b. liveweight,
have been similarly maintained
on 3.33 food-units. Perhaps
these quantities become more
intelligible when one recalls
that good-quality roughage has
a fodder-value of 35-40 food-
units in 1001 b., wheat and bar-
ley have a fodder-value of 72
food-units in 1001 b., oats have
a food-value of 60 food-units
in 1001 b., and so on. Detailed
information on these and other
fodders is readily available
from many publications or
from our extension-officers.
The cereal grains wheat,
maize, oats, barley and grain-
sorghum—have been fed suc-
cessfully over an experimental
period of 28 weeks, as the sole
source of nutriment, provided
the inherent calcium-deficiency
was corrected by the addition
of finely-ground limestone.
No appreciable benefit was
obtained by cracking grain-
sorghum. Sheep are able to
masticate all cereal grains with-
out difficulty. In these experi-
ments, of course, the research-
workers have been fully aware
of the dangers associated with
a too-rapid introduction of
sheep to rations containing a
high proportion of grain. When
adequate precautions have been
taken to introduce the full
grain-ration gradually to sheep
no serious problem has been
encountered, even though the
ration, as stated, has comprised
grain only.
Lucerne-chaff and wheaten-
chaff gave similar results in
50-50 mixtures of chaff and
wheat when fed at maintenance
levels over a 30-week period.
The addition of salt to
drought r maintenance rations
for either weaners or adult
sheep was of no benefit. The
increased rate of food-con-
sumption by greedy feeders,
following the addition of a
small quantity of salt, might in
fact be a disadvantage.
Adult dry sheep, approxi-
mately 751 b. liveweight at the
start of the experiment, have
been kept alive for four months
on an oat-grain diet (plus finely-
ground limestone) supplying
only two food-units a head a
week. The heavy losses which
were experienced when this
level of feeding was continued
for a further two months
ceased when the food-intake
was increased to four food-
units a head a w 7 eek.
The importance of this par-
ticular series of experiments is
that it emphasises that on pro-
perties where fodder-reserves
are inadequate, or where there
may be difficulties in purchas-
j n g adequate supplies, it may
be a much sounder nutritional
policy to feed groups of sheep
f or some time on sub-main-
tenance levels. If the period
0 f drought is prolonged, and
the wellbeing of the sheep
becomes severely affected, a
reasonable increase in the level
of feeding may soon rectify the
position. This policy of alter -
nating low with better planes
of nutrition might profit-
ably be practised more exten-


■
■
■
.
v: :
■
■' '. : :
.
1
H
■
: :.: v
:: -v:
m
■
m
IV--
1H
">!>
m \
m
1
:
m
■■ i
IZ\
:■ -
r
mm
m . -
$
■
;^y.»
:'V - •■
i: F""' ;
silt
V- . ’'"'Mi
< g 49R . -- „-S*
... •. -
,> V >
CV • "V "X '* ** ' - r.* ■■>.'•■ * ''-. S «S *,+ '
- - : V w'--- ■ ■ ■
Fast and frequent service between
Australian ports and the Continent
Scandinavia, via the Middle East.
WILH. WILHELMSEN AGENCY PTY. LTD.
1315 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNE Y B U 630 I • 5 I WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE MA3031


MACARTHUR
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW
and National Fleece
Competition
/
lst-4th June, at the Showground
MANNEQUIN PARADES OF ALL-WOOL CLOTHING
David Jones Ltd. are sponsoring parades of woollen Sports-
wear, Evening and Day Wear and Men's Wear in the
Arts and Crafts Pavilion at the following times: Ist June at
2.30 p.m.; 2nd June at 11 a.m. and 2.30 p.m.; 3rd June at
11 a.m. and 3.30 p.m.; 4th June, 11 a.m., 2 p.m. and
3.30 p.m.
WORLD'S FINEST DISPLAY OF SHEEP—Over 2,000 sheep from
all over Australia will be on exhibition.
SHEEP DOG TRIALS —of interest to all, are being held at the
Sheep Show from lst-4th June.
SHEARING DEMONSTRATIONS featuring old and new
methods —2nd, 3rd and 4th June.
NATIONAL FLEECE EXHIBITION—Wide variety of fleece* on
display.
DOGS AND CATS SHOW on 4th June.
POULTRY SHOW on 3rd and 4th June.
N.S.W. SHEEPBREEDERS' ASSOCIATION
Adults 5/- (All Sections except Cats). Children 1/-.
sively in some of our drought
areas.
Provided sheep obtained
their full drought-ration, exer-
cise had no significant effect on
their survival-rate and general
condition. Adult sheep were
walked 31 miles a day, five
days a week, for five months,
but showed no greater losses
in numbers or condition than
similar sheep which were con-
fined to pens for the full five
months. It is appreciated, of
course, that had these sheep in
this experiment been driven to
the point of fatigue the story
may well have been very differ-
ent. In these experiments the
conditions simulating those
associated with careful droving
were adopted, and probably
simulate those one could expect
when sheep are fossicking over
a wide area during a drought.
2. Mineral Deficiencies in the
Drought Feeding of Adult
Dry Sheep, Pregnant Ewes
and Young Sheep.
Sheep maintained on cereal
rations without a calcium-sup-
plement showed progressive
loss of appetite, loss of body-
weight, and eventually a high
mortality - rate. Eruption of
incisors and molars was im-
paired and retarded, with con-
sequent interference with ability
to forage and masticate food.
The lime-content of the blood
of pregnant ewes was lowered
severely to levels comparable
to those frequently encountered
in lambing sickness, many
failed to maintain milk-produc-
tiOn after lambing, and birth-
and weaning-weights of lambs
were reduced.
The addition of finely-ground
limestone to cereal rations gave
better results with Merino
sheep than the addition of
slaked lime.
Adult wethers, previously
fed at drought-levels for six
months on all-grain rations
which were low in sodium,
showed greater lood-consump-
tion, greater body-weigh‘t gains
and more efficient food-con-
version when fed ad lib. rations
of oat-grain, lucerne-chaff and
wheaten - chaff supplemented
with 0.25 per cent, salt (sodium-
chloride), than did similar
groups of sheep given similar
rations but no salt-supplement.
3. Vitamin-A Supplements for
Merino Sheep.
Merino weaners, given
drought-maintenance rations of
wheat only, or mixtures of
wheat and wheaten - chaff,
showed much higher survival-
rates, during an eight-month
experimental period, when
given one massive dose of
vitamin - A (500,000 interna-
tional units a head), than did
similar weaners not given a
vitamin-supplement.
Survival-rates in experimen-
tal groups of Merino lambs,
reared under drought condi-
tions, were much greater when
vitamin-A supplements were
given. Supplementing ewes
fed cereal --rations before or
after lambing with vitamin-A
did not appreciably improve
survival-rates of lambs unless
the lambs themselves also
received the supplement.
Vitamin-A was equally effec-
tive as an oil, an emulsion or
a water-miscible suspension
in maintaining blood-plasma
vitamin-A levels and satisfac-
tory food-consumption and
body-weight changes of Merino
weaners. One massive dose
of 10,000 international units
of vitamin-A to each pound
body-weight satisfied the
requirements of weaners for
approximately six months
when they were fed rations
supplying little or no carotene,
the precursor of vitamin-A.
Adult dry sheep and preg-
nant ewes were maintained,
without vitamin-A supple-
ments, for much longer periods
than weaners and lambs.
'T'hese results with vitamin-
A supplements might lead
many to believe that vitamin-A
supplements have a wider
application than is actually so.
Green fodders, in particular,
are very rich in carotene,
which is converted into
vitamin-A in the animal body,
and if only a very small
supplement of green fodder or
green pick is available there
is ample evidence that vitamin-
A supplements should not be
necessary.
It is also well-established,
however, that dry, standing
roughage orJodder which has
been cut and conserved as
hay contains much lower levels
of carotene and under extreme
conditions may be reduced to
negligible levels. In such cir-
cumstances carotene-deficiency
may be an important limiting
factor in the nutrition of the
sheep.
4. Early Weaning Investiga-
tions.
Experimental groups of
lambs have been weaned at
four, six, eight and 12 weeks
of age. Losses were heavy
(69 per cent.) in the four-week
groups ; survival-rates in the
six-, eight- and 12-week groups
were satisfactory to good
(83-100 per cent.).
Liveweight gains of sur-
vivors were similar, at what-
ever time weaning had taken
place, and were similar also
to liveweight gains recorded
for approximately 8000 Merino
lambs, weaned early in field-
trials in N.S.W., during the
1957 drought.
Useful data on the food-
consumption and food-require-
ments of early-weaned Merino
lambs have also been obtained
in experiments. For example,
Merino lambs, averaging
17.51 b. live - weight when
weaned at six weeks of age
and fed ad lib., consumed,
during the succeeding first,
second, third and fourth four-
week periods, 1.9, 3.8, 4.9 and
5.1 food-units a head a week
and were approximately 401 b.
body-weight at the end of
this 16-week period. On a
50-50 mixture of lucerne-chaff
and whole-oat grain, this food-
consumption totalled 151 b.,
451 b., 841 b. and 1251 b. respec-
tively for the four-, eight-,
12- and 16-week post-weaning
periods. With lucerne-chaff at
£2O a ton and oats at 9s. a
bushel, fodder-costs for these
periods totalled 35., 95., 17s.
and 255. 2d. respectively a head.
5. Utilisation of Low-quality
Roughage.
A number of large-scale
experiments on the utilisation
of low-quality roughage by
Merino sheep have also been
undertaken. Over 2500 sheep,
including dry adult sheep and
wether- and ewe-weaners have
been included in these investi-
gations.
The low-quality roughages
have included chaffed wheaten-
straw only, or mixtures of
chaffed wheaten-straw and
wheaten-'chaff with protein-
contents ranging from 2.4 per
cent, to 4.2 per cent.
The experiments have
demonstrated that protein-
deficiency is the most import-
ant single factor limiting
satisfactory consumption and
utilisation of low - quality
roughage.
A wide range of protein-
supplepnents have been studied
in these investigations. These
have included linseed-meal,
peanut-meal, cottonseed-meal,
(Continued on page 49)


THE PORT OF LIVERPOOL
wsiiPEhi
r
iv
V.
m
-mill/
Herbert R. Young
Australian and New Zealand Representative
MERSEY DOCKS AND HARBOUR BOARD
19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SHIP VIA LIVERPOOL
Prompt despatch Rail, Road or Canal
Hew Ideas on Wool Quality
By Dr. K. J. WHITELEY
(Lecturer in Fibre Science, University of N.S.W.)
Wool has about twice
the strength of the
toughest wood and is
almost as strong
as steel-wire rope, yet its
unique elastic properties endow
woollen garments with a very
soft “handle” and excellent
bulkiness
No other fibre has the chemi-
cal complexities of wool, and
these facilitate dyeing, mois-
ture:absorption and resistance
to attack by micro-organisms.
Two serious defects, its ten-
dency to felt and failure to
crease permanently, now
appear to have been overcome
in a practical fashion by the
C.5.1.R.0. Wool Research
Laboratories.
Viewed in this light, the pic-
ture looks quite rosy. From
the point of view of world tex-
tile-markets, however, the most
significant feature is that wool-
sales remain comparatively
constant, whilst the production
of synthetics is ever on the in-
crease. None of these fibres
has the individual qualities of
wool, but they all have some-
thing to offer, they all have a
place in the textile world.
“Cheap synthetics” still re-
main, but luxurious synthetic
woollens are now appearing.
They can be easily washed and
have a magnificent “handle,”
but, in time, certain defects
appear. If these garments lived
up to expectations (and they
very nearly do!) I think that
they would largely replace wool
in this particular field.
The synthetic-fibre man has
no problems of dirt, dust and
burr to contend with, and
diameter, length and crimps to
the inch are his for the asking.
This permits him to start off
with the basic problem of what
to make his fibres from. Once
the job was to make a fibre at
all; now there is a wide selec-
tion of basic starting-materials.
Once he has decided on the
type of fibre he can then alter
his production to obtain differ-
ent degrees of strength and
elasticity.
Let us imagine that we are
making nylon fibres to be used
in a carpet. Obviously they
must be tough arid resilient, so
we make the fibre-molecules lie
close together in a rigidly
ordered fashion. A carpet
made from such a nylon will
be so resilient that even the
impression made by a stiletto
heel will rapidly vanish. For
another type of garment such
a fibre might provide serious
problems as regards stat : c elec-
tricity, soiling and harsh handle.
Consequently we would settle
for a type of nylon in which
the molecules were not so
highly oriented.
Naturally there are other
problems which complicate
matters, but scientists have long
recognised that the molecular
structure of the fibres is one
of the basic fundamentals of
quality in textile materials.
Precisely the same argument
applies to wool-fibres, but it
has been sadly neglected. The
general opinion appears to be
that some fibres are short,
others long, some thick, others
thin, but that they are all made
of the same stuff: wool. Non-
sense !
Wool-fibres can be as dif-
ferent as copper and steel,
the variations in their elastic
properties being far greater
than the variations in diameter.
If the fibres in a lot of wool
do not have the correct physi-
cal properties the manufacturer
is likely to find himself in
serious trouble. The wool
scientist also has his problems.
They are logical fellows who
like to be able to say: “If we
hang a small weight on a three-
inch length of fibre, then it will
increase its length to 4in. in
half-an-hour.” Unfortunately
we find that another fibre of
the same length and diameter
growing beside the first one on
the sheep’s back ma/ stretch to
3.9 in. or even 4.3 in. A fibre
from a different sheep grown
under exactly the same con-
ditions may have stretched to
a length of sin. in the same
time.
Fibres are like fingerprints,
and if their shapes do not vary
then their substance will. We
have all long been convinced
that diameter, length and
crimps to the inch are im-
portant in manufacture. Now
what about substance?
An English buyer was pur-
chasing lambswool for wool-
len suitings. He noted that a
certain brand invariably
brought very high prices, well
beyond his own limits. He dis-
covered that, even though its
dimensions were similar to the
wools he normally bought,
manufacturers found it par-
ticularly suitable for blending
with cashmere. Tests revealed
that it was very extensable and
similar in fine structure to
cashmere. The buyer then
presented a second series of
samples, two of which were
“specials.” The scientists were
asked to pick out. On the basis
of an examination of fibre
substance alone, two wools
were selected, one of them was
the coarsest in the series, the
other one of the finest. Sure
enough, they were the correct
ones, both of them were eagerly
sought after for blending with
cashmere and neither diameter
nor crimps to the inch seemed
to be important.
The story is not as simple as
that. Soon after, another
manufacturer asked why a cer-
tain type of wool, which was
very expensive, had failed badly
during manufacture. It proved,
on examination, to be identical
with the valuable wools just
discussed and the samples he
had sent in which had given
good results were just the
opposite—extremely difficult to
stretch. The answer lay in the
types of processing he was
giving the wool. He was a felt-
maker producing fine uniform
cloths, and the key-process was
merciless hammering of the
cloth, sometimes for days on
end, until the correct amount
of felting had taken place. He


IS THE TIME
to order your
shearing
requisites
SHfARMS r/Aff fOO/V
/
7
vji
fc./X.i
fllptlP
"HIBITANE" Disinfectant the new disinfectant
to meet all farm needs —cleaning wool sheds, shearing huts,
sterilizing hands and equipment, and general home and
industrial use.
“Hibitane” is highly effective against a wide range of
bacteria even in the presence of dirt, milk, blood, etc., and
is non-irritant even to the most sensitive skin.
ARSENICAL SHEEP DIP . . . fully effective dip
for the control of Itch Mite and Lice —it’s inexpensive too!
Where Ked is prevalent insist on and use ICI ARSENIC
and ROTENONE.
"SI-RO-MARK" Sheep branding fluid-can
be used on wet sheep or during rain, available in four
different colours —red, green, blue and purple.
AVAILABLE FROM YOUR USUAL SUPPLIER
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
had been competing with the
cashmere-blenders for this very
expensive, very soft wool that
not only refused to felt but
actually disintegrated with
harsh treatment.
This demonstrates a most
significant feature of wool-
quality—namely, that there is
not, and never will be, a general
definition of wool-quality. Each
manufacturer has to decide on
quality from the point of view
of the job the fibres have to
do during manufacture and
afterwards. This involves a
consideration of both shape
and substance. For expensive
felts a fine wool is essential,
but it must be extremely tough.
For a lambswool sweater soft-
ness comes first, but for many
other products an intermediate
type both as regards diameter
and substance is likely to give
the best results.
In the Australian woo 1-
industry some major problems
are immediately apparent. We
have always considered our
wool the best in the world. In
many fields it is, but for par-
ticular types of manufacture it
is completely outclassed by
foreign wools. Australian
carpet-makers have to pay veiy
high prices for wools that
would make any Australian
grazier throw up his hands in
horror: Some primitive South
African types are superb felters
and no Australian wool could
compete with them.
We are confident that in most
cases the secret of these ideal
wools lies in their fine structure
and not their dimensions. In
other words, ideal wools may
have most unattractive external
features.
The first step is to find out
exactly where all these fibre-
substance types are located and
then to determine whether we
can breed for a particular type
and what effect nutrition will
have on the fibre-properties.
At the same time we will be
processing wools which have
widely different physical pro-
perties into a variety of fabrics
to determine which wools are
ideal for a given processing
routine.
There is little need to em-
phasise the importance of
knowing what wool-quality is.
Even occasional failures in the
mill are likely to start the
owner thinking in terms of a
fibre that can be guaranteed to
give constant results.
Luckily, in Australia, we
have a complete range of fibre-
types, and many manufacturers
have established, over the years,
that a certain brand can always
{Continued on page 61)


Macarthur and This Sheep Show
By M. H. ELLIS
The first sheep, all of the
hairy Indian breed from
the Cape of Good Hope,
were brought to the
Colony of New South Wales in
the First Fleet in January,
1788.
They were landed on Benne-
long Point, Sydney, on
January 27, 1788, and pas-
tured at first in what is now
known as the Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Some of them were owned
by the Government. All these
were lost or destroyed, the
only animals of the original
importation remaining in the
Colony when Governor Phillip
left it in December, 1792,
being the property of the
Governor, who then distri-
buted them to various settlers
on the small farms at Parra-
matta, Toongabbie and Pros-
pect. Captain P. G. King had
added to the stock when he
returned from England in the
Gorgon at the end of 1791.
All the new owners disposed
of their gifts to officers or ate
them, save for Edward Elliott,
who kept his sheep and even-
tually acquired a flock of 114
at the end of the century.
A few sheep were brought
to the Colony in the next
decade as part of the live
provisions of ships calling at
the port, and these were often
left behind. Most of the lead-
ing officers had a few, the main
farmers being Major Foveaux,
John Macarthur and John
Palmer, the Commissary,
though none of these had paid
much attention to their
improvement. In 1796
Foveaux appears to have had
the largest flock, with Mac-
arthur next. Macarthur then
had 298 head —mutton-sheep.
In August, 1796, the
Governor, Captain Hunter,
R.N., sent H.M.S. Reliance
and the storeship Supply with
Commissary John Palmer to
the Cape of Good Hope “in
order to execute that part of
my instructions from his
Majesty which relates to the
stocking of this Colony with
live cattle.” At the same time
the Britannia carried away on
the voyage to England several
officials, including Captain
King, then Lieutenant-Gover-
nor of Norfolk Island. The
three ships were at the Cape
together.
Captain Waterhouse, R.N.,
of the Reliance, has left his
record of what happened
there: —
Governor King and Colonel
Paterson... .had been acquainted
with Colonel Gordon, who lost
his life there. Colonel Gordon
(who was the Dutch Commandant)
had imported a few Spanish sheep
to the Cape, which had increased
to 32. Mrs. Gordon was then
going to Europe, and for some
reason did not chuse to leave any-
thing that belonged to her hus-
band at the Cape. She gave three
Spanish sheep to Governor King
and three to Colonel Paterson. The
remainder, I understand, were
offered to the Commissary [i.e.,
Palmer, who had been sent to buy
stock for the Government], but
he declined to purchase them on
behalf of the Government. They
were then offered to me. As I
could not afford to purchase the
whole, Captain Kent (that they
might not be lost to the Colony)
offered to take half. We each
received 13, and I took Captain
King’s (four) on board the Reliance.
We paid Mrs. Gordon four pounds
apiece for them.
King’s sheep, which had
become diseased, died before
the ship sailed, and Water-
house lost about half his sheep
and Kent, in the Supply, lost
all or nearly all. The Govern-
ment refused to buy the
residue, which included some
lambs by the time the ship
reached Sydney.
Waterhouse, having refused
Early view of the Nepean at the Cowpastures, where Macarthur acquired his
Camden Park lands.
15 guineas a head for the
whole from John Macarthur,
supplied animals, mostly from
lambings, to Captain Kent,
John Macarthur, Captain
Rowley, Williamson, the
Assistant - Commissary, and
Moore, the Superintendent
of the Dockyard.
He himself kept some which
he sold to Captain William
Cox when he left the Colony
and which brought high prices
when Cox’s estate (Brush
Farm) was sold a few years
later.
These sheep were Dutch
Merinos, large-bodied and
apparently crossbred. The first
Spanish ram seems to have
been brought out by Major
George Johnston, to whom it
was presented by the Duke of
Northumberland in 1803.
A little over two years after
the arrival of the Reliance
from the Cape, the leading
owners of sheep were Foveaux,
Macarthur, Palmer and
Marsden. But they were all
kept primarily for mutton. In
the next year or two on the
urging of the Home Govern-
ment a little coarse wool was
produced and sold to the
Government to make blankets
for the convicts.
In 1800 King told the Home
Government that the “hairy
covering” of the original
sheep had “mostly disap-
peared,” yielding to exertions
on the part of the Government
to change it to “very fine
wool.”
Actually this was far from
true as was later shown.
In July, 1800, Macarthur,
determined at that time to
leave the Colony, offered to
sell the whole of his flock to
the Government along with
his farms at Parramatta and
Seven Hills. He itemised his
sheep as follows:
Six-hundred sheep, several of
which are Spanish, and most of
the flock of that breed, at £2 10s.
per head —400 of the sheep are
females . . . £l5OO.
Governor King urged the
purchase on the ground that
the sheep would be “a great
acquisition for the Govern-
ment, from the very great
advantage that will hereafter
be derived from the Spanish
wool, samples of which, from
the flock, are sent to the


m
w
'---'lt
mm
m
between
bidding
and shipping
the 'Adelaide'
operates
swiftly
in the
Highly-skilled technical officers
specially trained in all aspects of finance
connected with the wool industry
will gladly discuss any problems
;
effecting your business
CONSULT OUR WOOL MANAGERS AT
ADELAIDE . SYDNEY . MELBOURNE
BRISBANE OR PERTH OFFICES
interests and
\
service of
Bank of AMaiiip
"INCORPORATED IN 1865 IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA WITH LIMITED LIABILITY"
ALAN A. WEST GENERAL MANAGER
ADELAIDE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH and LONDON


For sound, considered and experienced guidance on
MEAT EXPORT
consult
THE OLD FIRM WITH THE NEW OUTLOOK
P. E. SCRIVENER & GO. LTD.
Established 1924
LEADERS IN THE AMERICAN MARKET
x €1
Exporters to United Kingdom, Europe, Africa, Br. West Indies,
Canada, U.S.A., Malaya, Hong Kong, Philippines and Japan
m
A. H. COMBER Joint Managing Directors M. C. E. SHANNON
P. E. SCRIVENER & COMPANY, LTD.,
21 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Phone: 27,6601
Telex Syd. 302 Cables and Telegrams: SCRIV SYDNEY
President of the Royal Society”
—i.e., Sir Joseph Banks.
Macarthur’s Merino fleeces
which King sent to England
in the Buffalo in September
that year were the first
Merino fleeces or wool sent to
England from Australia of
which there is any record, and
this year is therefore the 160th
anniversary of its dispatch.
In July of 1801, the fol-
lowing year, the largest owners
of sheep in the Colony were
Major Foveaux, 1250 ; William
Cox, 1000; Macarthur, 960;
John Palmer, 650; and the
Reverend Samuel Marsden
and Thomas Laycock, the
Quartermaster of the New
South Wales Corps, 340 each.
King, urging the- British
Government to buy Foveaux’s
sheep, - described them as “a
fine stock . . . which would
have furnished a sufficiency of
wool to keep the manufactories
[in N. S. Wales] going.”
Macarthur, however, who
had them running with his
own, since Foveaux was away
on Norfolk Island, purchased
them, intending to make one
sale of his disposal of the
whole of his flocks to the
Government when the pur-
chase of his farms was author-
ised by the Colonial Office.
It was not, however, authorised.
In the meantime, a quarrel
arose between Macarthur and
Paterson, whom Macarthur
wounded in a duel. In
November, 1801, King sent
him to England to be tried
in connection with this affair
and he took with him some
more specimens of his wool.
The reports of English experts
on his specimens when pub-
lished created a sensation in
the trade. His purchase of
Foveaux’s flock made him the
dominating sheepowner of
N. S. Wales—he owned 2750
in 1802, against 1100 owned
by William Cox, and 480
owned by Marsden.
The Home Government
found no grounds on which
to send him to trial, and while
he was in England he was
approached by a committee of
English wool-manufacturers
who were concerned with
their sources of wool supply,
the Spanish trade having been
brought almost to a stand-
still through the current war
situation —in that year, 1803,
England was threatened with
Napoleon’s invasion.
Macarthur immediately saw
the opportunity offered at last
of developing a commodity in
Australia which could lead to
large-scale export to the United
Kingdom.
As a result of his discus-
sions with the manufacturers
and a memorial which he sent
to the Colonial Secretary, the
Privy Council’s Committee on
Trade and Foreign Plantations
held an inquiry in the Council
Chamber at Whitehall in July,
1804, at which Captain Hunter,
Macarthur and others gave
evidence.
The finding of the com-
mittee was that “it is probable
wool of very fine quality,
suited to the manufacture of
fine cloth, may be produced
in New South Wales and
brought to this country at a
price which the manufacturers
of that article can afford to
give for that material.”
Macarthur returned to the
colony in June, 1805, with a
grant of 5000 or more acres
of land on the Cowpastures
where the Government wild
cattle were grazed and with
five rams and a ewe of the
pure Spanish Merino breed
which he had been allowed to
buy from the Royal stud at
Kew, and to export (against
the course of normal law) on
a Colonial Office warrant
specially issued. He came
back in the year of the out-
break of war with Spain,
which created a wool crisis in
England. He called his ship
the Argo. He brought with
him Edward Wood, a wool
expert commissioned to make
a survey of all the flocks in
the colony. He occupied his*
grant provisionally and named
it after Lord Camden, the
Colonial Secretary, who had
ordered that it be given him.
In the subsequent years,
Macarthur was forced to fight
for. the ideal of Australia as
a wool-producing country. He
had to fight the enmity of Sir
Joseph Banks, a powerful
opponent, persona grata with
the Home Government. He
had to fight local envy and
the opposition of the Reverend
Samuel Marsden, who thought
the primary object should be
to breed mutton-sheep and
whose opinion had great
weight both at home and in
the colony. He had to com-
bat, during the famine of
1806 following the great
Hawkesbury floods, the uni-
versal enmity of the inhabi-
tants and to resist their
efforts to force him to sell his
Merino flocks for mutton.
On the arrival of the Blax-
land brothers, the first free
immigrants with large amounts
of capital and first-class
farming experience, he had to
fight their opinion that the
industry could not succeed.
Finally, he had to fight the
bitter opposition of Governor
Bligh, who accepted Marsden’s
advice, refused to make-over
his grants and abused him
roundly. It was on the issue
of wool, rather than on the
legendary issue of rum, that


BUCKINBAH Merinos
SEE THEM AT SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW AND SALE
„ ,s " ,1 '
; : ...
Our Grand Champion Ram at 1960 Tara,
Goondiwindi and St. George Shows.
WE DID VERY WELL AT
GOONDIWINDI ST. GEORGE TARA
AT THREE SHOWS AT WHICH BUCKINBAH HAS
EXHIBITED SO FAR THIS SEASON, OUR SHEEP
HAVE WON THE FOLLOWING AWARDS:—
• ST. GEORGE: Grand Champion Ram, Grand Cham-
pion Ewe, Grand Champion Fleece.
• GOONDIWINDI: Grand Champion Ram, Grand
Champion Ewe, Champion Merino Breeder’s Group,
Grand Champion Breeder’s Group of the Show,
13 Firsts, 6 Seconds, 1 Third. Champion Merino
Ram, Champion Merino Ewe.
• TARA: Grand Champion Ram and Ewe, Reserve
Grand Champion Ram and Ewe, 12 Firsts, 8
Seconds, 6 Sectional Championships, 6 Reserve
Championships.
WE WILL BE EXHIBITING ABOUT 40 RAMS AND
EWES AT MACARTHUR SESQUICENTENARY
SYDNEY SHEEP SHOW AND OFFERING 6 STUD
RAMS FOR SALE.
For Rams That Will Improve Your Clip In Weight And Quality
Contact
CLAUDE BOWHAY, Buckinbah, St. George, Queensland
the Bligh rebellion arose, for
without Macarthur involved
Ahe at that time had little
interest in the liquor trade)
there would have been no
rebellion.
As the original prophet of
wool as the staple industry of
Australia his place is estab-
lished beyond doubt. He was
the first to see what the future
of woolgrowing could and
might be. He wrote, in 1805,
that within seven years, under
his breeding plan, “the best
judge will be unable to dis-
cover any material difference
between the perfect and the
mixed breed.”
He calculated that within 20
years N.S.W. could produce
more wool than England was
then importing from Spain.
He saw Australian wool solv-
ing the British unemployment
problem in Lancashire through
enabling the expansion of the
spinning industry:
Whatever the demand 'of Great
Britain for that commodity [wootj
may be we.could certainly supply
it. The universal use of machinery
might then be safely sanctioned,
and the British manufacturers
would be enabled to reduce the
price of woollen cloths to such
a level as would secure through-
out the world the most complete
monopoly that any people ever
possessed. We also should largely
participate in the profits of this
gainful trade and should enjoy the
pleasing consolation that our
labors were contributing to the
support and prosperity of that
parent country to whom our debt
of gratitude can never be paid.
Macarthur was the first man
to breed sheep systematically,
to keep proper flock records,
to establish a flock-breeding
system with just proportions
of rams to separate flocks at
different stages of wool-
improvement.
During his stay in England
after the Bligh rebellion,
1809-1817, he studied the needs
of the wool-markets and had
his two sons, James and
William, trained for the
management of a fine-wool-
producing farm.
Though there were sales of
wool in England, of which the
first bale was taken home by
Marsden in 1807 —coarse cross-
bred from a Spanish ram on
Teeswater or other English
sheep—and the first sale that
could be called commercial
took place in 1818, it was not
until the first great auction of
1821 at Garraway’s, in Change
Alley, Cornhill, that Australian
wool was established as a com-
mercial proposition.
At that auction, 329 bales
of N.S.W. wool were sub-
mitted in competition with the
choice offerings of Saxony
which had supplanted Spain as
the chief source of British raw
wool for manufacture.
Among this it was 47 bales
of Macarthur wool, submitted
on the first day, that won over
the British buyers. The
King s manufacturer ran two
bales of it up to the high
puce of ss. 6d. a pound and
bought a choice bale for the
phenomenal figure of 10s. Id.
ap ° und -
Next year, Macarthur was
awarded by the Society of Arts
two gold-medals one for
having exported 150,0001 b. of
wool from New South Wales,
the other for “having pro-
duced to the society the finest
sample of wool, the produce
of New South Wales, superior
to the best Spanish,” Two
years later the society gave
him another gold-medal for
having exported to Great
Britain the largest quantity of
fine colonial wool.
Macarthur’s sons took - up
the running where he left off,
and from 1820 onwards the
management of the Camden
P&rk flock was in their hands,
They, following their father,
and their mother, who had
managed the sheep during
Macarthur’s long absence in
England with the faithful help
of Richard Fitzgerald, their
farm steward, and Macarthur’s
nephew, Hannibal, are entitled
to a large share for placing
Australian wool beyond com-
petition in the 140 years that
have elapsed since the Garra-
way sale.
Through their studies, the
early systems of make-up,
packing and shipping of wool
and the use of the wool-press
were established, following
tours in Saxony and experi-
ence in the English sale-
rooms. They brought into
Australia the first skilled Ger-
man woolclasser, Mr. Klensen-
dorff. They put-up the first
proper woolshed and placed
shearing on an organised
basis. They devised and put-
in the first wool-wash and they
planned the organised display
and sale of Australian wool
and for many years were the
dominating factors, the great
innovators of the industry in
Australia.
The importers of Saxon
sheep, beginning with Alex-
ander Riley (1818), Richard
Jones, the Australian Agricul-
tural Company, the Betting-
tons and others were a
tremendous factor in the
1820’s in putting the coping-
stone on the work of the
Macarthurs. They were the
men who widened the range
of Australian wools to accord
(Continued on page 58)


SHEEP-DOGS
National sheep-dog trials at Canberra.
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
With the Sydney Sheep
Show on, and the
sheep - dog trials
drawing their annual
quota of fascinated spectators,
one naturally thinks of good
sheep-dogs one has known.
They are found in every
sheep-district, these outstanding
dogs ; not up to trial standard,
perhaps, or not trained for it,
but standing tail-and-shoulders
over their fellows. And their
owners, talkative or not, are
proud men. Most bpys
brought-up in sheep-country
have nursed the ambition to
some day own such a dog.
In my own youth several
strong canine characters im-
pressed themselves on my
imagination. They were not
all sheep-dogs, but, of these,
I remember vividly a black-
and-tan elder-statesman of dog
owned by George Harvey, at
Peak Hill (N.S.W.), George
Wheatley’s red dog, at Gunda-
gai, and a red-and-white dog
called Tango, in the same
district.
Bootlace spent most of his
time lying on the floor of
George's office, or, in winter,
in the sun outside. At lunch-
time he would trot stiffly up
the street beside his master (a
stock-and-station agent) and,
when taken down to the
trucking-yards, or out of town
in the car, would come
abruptly to life.
True, I never saw Bootlace
do anything remarkable. He
was then, I imagine, too old
to do more than bark rustily
at sheep in a yard, or shake
his head over the way the
young dogs were carrying-on.
But he had a tremendous dig-
nity, and I never doubted for
a moment that he had been a
great dog in his day.
George Wheatley’s dog I
saw only occasionally, and
knew mainly by reputation, as
my age-group knew the out-
standing riders and fighters
and Don Juans in the district.
But Tango I could claim as a
friend.
He came to my uncle’s
property as a grown dog, from,
I think, the snow country
—Adaminaby or Kiandra. My
uncle, an impatient man, was
no trainer of dogs or boys.
He wasn’t cruel, but he shouted
at them and put them off.
My cousin wasn’t a shouter,
but his dogs never amounted
to much, either. He didn’t
have the knack.
I don’t mean that the place
was populated by useless
sheep-dogs. But they were
just average. Tango was in a
class of his own.
My uncle’s habit of stand-
ing-up in the stirrups and
roaring didn't upset Tango in
the least. He would just look
at him slyly, laughing, red
tongue lolling and rib-cage
heaving, and then quietly go
on with the job. Oddly enough,
this performance seemed to
have a soothing effect on my
uncle, who would certainly
have considered a similar re-
action by me the height of
impertinence. But then, he
probably reasoned, Tango was
a sight more useful.
Tango, although still very
active, was getting on, and he
was perhaps a little deaf. I
say “perhaps” because it
wasn’t always clear when he
failed to hear my uncle’s com-
mands, or when he simply
ignored them. In any case, it
seldom mattered. If he made
a mistake he quickly cor-
rected it.
At bottom, he had no respect
for my uncle’s ideas on work-
ing sheep, but he was a wise
and courteous dog, and he
probably recognised that my
uncle was head of the house
and so, as often as he thought
fit, humored him.
• For a long time he abso-
lutely ignored any commands
1 gave him, although, off-
parade, so to speak, we were
good friends. But in time 1
became adept at anticipating
what he was going to do, and
so, in front of strangers, 1
was able to give a very fair
imitation of controlling the
situation.
Later still, out of his
generosity, Tango would co-
operate in front of strangers.
But once we were alone with
the sheep he briskly made it
plain who was boss.
A friendship with a dog like
Tango is something to remem-
ber. I often think if I had
spent more time with him I
might have learnt a lot. But
at this critical stage of my
education I was sent away to
school . . .
Tango, too, gave me my
first intimation of the drama
of thwarted passion. An acci-
dent getting through a fence
had deprived him of the
capacity, though not the
inclination, for fatherhood.
He never seemed to realise
his limitation, and did his best
to monopolise any attractive
bitch during her brief court-
ship season. This dog-in-the
manger attitude was properly
resented by his mates, but
Tango, though old, was big
and vigorous, and thrashed all-
comers. Anyone familiar
with the mating habits of dogs
will appreciate that he must
have been kept very busy.
The disgust of the female
(Continued on page 50)


Rf}
A new
LYSAGHT
coming
You'll be able to order it in July in time for this
season's harvest.
Far ahead of any other silo you’ve ever owned or seen, the new
Lysaght silo marks an important step forward in Bulk Grain Storage.
Based on the experiences gained in the supply of over 20,000 units
in the last decade, this new-type silo incorporates many features
personally requested by the Man on the Land.
A full-size ‘walk-in’ door enables the silo to be emptied and cleaned
with a minimum of time, effort and discomfort. It also permits the
silo to Be used as a rodent-proof storage unit in off periods.
For further information, fill in and post the coupon below.
POST COUPON TODAY
To: Johrv Lysagbt (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,®
Newcastle Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Please send me full information on the new Lysaght Grain Silos.
NAME * _
Name of Property _ Route or RMB No. *
DISTRICT. * STATE ,
A
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
S33CC


Anniversary
Year i 960
CON
GN
WOOL
YOUR
TOCK
&
TO
50 years of experience ensures that your wool,
fat stock or produce consignment will be
handled with top efficiency. And whether your business
is large or small, you’ll receive friendly, personal attention together with
free merchandising and marketing advice. For top prices, consign with confidence to CPS
the company that has paid back £377,451 in refunds to consignors.
THE COUNTRY PRODUCERS’ SELLING COMPANY LIMITED
11 Macquarie Place, Sydney, BU 5101 11 Watt Street, Newcastle, B 4160
Macarthur
Commemoration
By JOHN McEWEN
Deputy Prime Minister
commemoration of the
pioneering work of
. John Macarthur is one
which I commend to
the people of Australia with
great pleasure.
No Australian can be un-
mindful of the contribution
which Macarthur’s foresight
has made to the Australia of
today. From our vantage-
point, 150 years later in time,
we are able to see in proper
perspective the breadth of Mac-
arthur’s vision, the magnitude
of his dreams, and the success
of his farseeing plans for this
country’s future.
Macarthur’s foresight was
quite remarkable; in those days,
when communications were
limited and uncertain, only a
man of extraordinary vision
and determination would have
undertaken sheep-raising —par-
ticularly in view of the fact
that most of the vast areas
devoted to sheep-raising today
were then unexplored.
However, John Macarthur
saw the opportunities and laid
the foundations of the Merino
flocks which, since then, have
expanded so enormously.
While commemorating Mac-
arthur’s activities in Merino-
wool production we should, of
course, also remember the
effort of that other great wool
pioneer, the Reverend Samuel
Marsden, and all those others
who carried on and developed
sheep-breeding in Australia.
While remembering the
pioneers we should, too, not
overlook the efforts of the great
stud sheep-breeders of today,
nor should we forget the daily
work being done by the many
hundreds of thousands of Aus-
tralians in and of the wool-
industry.
I need scarcely stress the
contribution of the wool-
industry to Australia’s develop-
ment and prosperity—this is
known to every Australian.
We should remember that,
despite immensely satisfactory
expansion in so many second-
ary industries in recent years,
the wool-industry and other
primary industries still provide
the main driving force in the
national economy.
We should remember, too,
that Australian wool has
meant and means much to
other countries, where vast
numbers of people are em-
ployed in textile industries
using Australian wool. The
prosperity and expansion of
the British textile industry in
the last 150 years owes a great
deal to Australian wool.
The present Macarthur com-
memoration will achieve its
objective if it brings home to
Australians how much is owed
to our sheep and wool-industry.
For the Government's parr,
we are well aware of the role
which the wool-industry has
played and is playing in the
maintenance of a prosperous
and expanding Australia, and
it has always been the policy
of this Government to work
for the stability and prosperity
of the industry which John
Macarthur gave us.


m %
% Ipl
Mr. M. H. HARDY
Well be pleased to see
You at the Sheep Show
The Commonwealth Trading Bank will provide
full banking facilities at its Agency at the Sheep
Show and during the subsequent Auction Sales.
The Agency will be located between “B” and “C”
pavilions, near the Judging ring.
As an added service to country visitors, Mr. M. H.
Hardy, Manager of our Inverell Branch and
members of the Bank’s rural technical staff, will
be available to discuss any aspect of banking,
finance or special features relating to the wool
industry.
You are invited to make full use of the facilities
available.
L. A. McWATTERS,
General Manager.
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
TRADING
exciting exercise in co-opera-
tion with the trade and
co-ordination of the many
specialised fields of product
development, sales-merchan-
dising and advertising.
Only by co-operation with
the varied sections of the tex-
tile and manufacturing trade
can the bureau ensure the day-
to-day merchandising of the
best in wool yarns, fabrics and
garments.
And only by skilled co-
ordination of wool end-product
output to match the trends
shown by market research;
technical services to bridge
the production gap in the
adoption of new finishes and
processes ; and sales-merchan-
dising, advertising, point-of-
sale display publicity and
promotions can wool-use
promotion achieve its ultimate
on the buying public.
Advertising, publicity and
promotions are the one-tenth
of the wool-use promotion
“iceberg” that is visible ; the
nine-tenths beneath the sur-
face is a detailed and thorough
application of the tried and
proven principles of twentieth-
century commerce and business
efficiency.
coconut - meal, meat - meal,
protein-rich concentrate mix-
tures and high - protein
roughages such as lucerne-
chaff.
When these protein-rich
supplements were fed, in addi-
tion to low-quality roughage,
there were considerable im-
provements in survival-rates,
wool-production, roughage-
consumption and body-weight
changes of adult wethers and
of two-tooth ewes and
wethers.
Twice-weekly feeding of the
various supplements gave
results which were as good
as those obtained with daily
supplementation.
The results of these investi-
gations with low - quality
roughage have provided data
which show conclusively that
serious losses of sheep can be
prevented at costs which are
economically sound.
Wheat or oats as supple-
ments to low-quality roughage
did not give as good results
as protein-concentrates or
lucerne-chaff, but the addi-
tion of urea to increase the
total nitrogen-intake gave
better results than did wheat
alone.
6. Urea as a Protein Substitute.
The experiments with low-
quality roughage already
referred to —and many others
carried-out in other parts of
Australia—have demonstrated
the importance. of protein-
rich supplements when the
main part of the ration is
made-up of low-quality rough-
age. The major problem,
however, in this connection is
that an adequate supply of a
protein-rich supplement is not
always readily available, and
in prolonged droughts in par-
ticular this can become a
serious limiting factor.
Experiments have been
undertaken, therefore, to study
the effect of substances which
can replace some of the pro-
tein in the ration of ruminants.
One of these is a synthetic
product called urea. It is now
well-established that urea, a
simple chemical compound,
can, if conditions are suitable
in the paunch or rumen, be
converted into bacterial pro-
tein, and this bacterial protein
can then serve as a substitute
for feed-protein.
Tn one experiment, for ex-
■*- ample, in which low-quality
wheaten-straw containing 2.6
per cent, protein was fed ad lib.
to similar groups of two-tooth
ewe-weaners, the percentage of
survivors at 16 weeks in the
unsupplemented group was
nil; in groups fed supplements
of 4.50 z. wheat a head a day
(fed twice weekly) 53 per cent,
survived ; and in groups given
the same quantity of wheat plus
l/10thoz., 2/10thoz. and
3/10thoz. urea a head a
day the survival-rates were
87 per cent., 94 per cent, and
81 per cent, respectively.
In similar experiments with
better-quality roughage there
was a sharp decline in urea-
response as the quality of the
roughage improved.
The results with protein-
substitutes have been very
encouraging and have led
research-workers to pursue this
field of investigation actively.
It is important to recognise
in connection with this work
that one may experience
serious problems of urea-
toxicity if the levels of urea-
feeding are too high or the
intake too rapid. These and
other problems associated with
this product are still the sub-
ject of investigation by a
number of research-Workers in
this country.
The examples referred to in
this article will give the reader
some idea of the scope of the
problems which have received
and are continuing to receive
the attention of those inter-
ested in the investigation of
one of Australia’s big national
problems—the reduction of
stock-losses during periods of
severe nutritional stress.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There's a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin" will send one
on its way.


PITT SON & BADGERYLTD.
THE PERSONAL SERVICE BROKERS
SYDNEY & NEWCASTLE
Offer the Man on the Land a Complete Marketing and Service Organisation
★ Outstanding facilities and expert wool and stock salesmen to cover
your marketing requirements.
★ Merchandise Property Travel Pastoral Advisory and Shop-
ping Departments for your service needs.
when the white-blazed head
and white collar of the
impotent old champion in-
variably emerged victorious
from the melee of embattled
males can well be imagined.
But for all his jealous pains
Tango was always finally
deceived —he had to sleep
sometimes —and, the passionate
season over, his behavior was
a refreshing contrast to that
of the common run of wronged
husbands. No bombast or
self-pity—he simply never
referred to the incident. In
due course he took a grave,
avuncular interest in the
puppies.
Tango’s plight, which it is
a temptation to see as a tragic
one, was not, perhaps, so very
terrible. At any rate, he
didn’t brood over it. He had
other interests, and any pass-
ing irritation was worked-out
on his rivals, after which he
concentrated on his main
business and art, working
sheep. It might be argued
with some plausibility that he
sublimated his energies. It
might also be argued that if
he had read about Freud he
might have developed a severe
neurosis . . .
It might as well be
admitted straight away that
Tango couldn’t read or write.
But in childhood it seems, at
odd moments, not at all im-
probable that a dog should
have human attributes and, as
Kelley remarks in a chapter
on training, there is a tempta-
tion at any time to confuse
intelligence and instinct in
sheep-dogs.
R. B. Kelley, in his excel-
lent Sheep Dogs (Angus and
Robertson) gives an illustra-
tion of the difference between
human and canine intelli-
gence :
My little boy, when three or
four years of age, watched me
giving a pup the exercise for move-
ments by signals described in an
earlier chapter. He took no part
in the work, which proceeded
rather more slowly than usual.
That evening, during our customary
romp, he asked that we play dogs.
The game was one of his own
devising, based upon his observa-
tion. After he had gone down on
his hands and knees I was to give
the signals which he would obey.
The exhibition was faultless and
gave me a salutary lesson. The
“Country Life” photo.
Austral Shep, and owner W. Bogie.
dog has not the mental ability of
a child of that age and wishful
thinking will not give it to him.
Dr. Kelley, who has bred
and trained some notable dogs,
makes several interesting
points about the intelligence
of dogs and training generally,
going on to stress the need for
routine in training; and, else-
where, he warns against taking
a young dog out with older
dogs at a certain stage of its
training. The same warning
has been given, probably,
thousands of times, but that’s
the way a lot of dogs learn
sheep-work.
It is bad training and
common training, and genera-
tions of experts have roundly
condemned it. All the same,
with all deference to these
weighty opinions, it seems
likely that some use could be
made of a pup’s natural ten-
dency to imitate ; it can, in my
experience, cut corners in basic
training.
If it isn’t plain already, I
must hasten to say that my
experience of training sheep-
dogs is in no way comparable
to that of Dr. Kelley, a past-
president of the N.S.W. Work-
ing Sheep-dog Society, and a
C.5.1.R.0. animal geneticist to
boot; a formidable man to
argue with. Apart from a
shy little black bitch who
turned-up one day, footsore
and in what Tango and his
mates quickly diagnosed as an
interesting condition (called,
for some obscure reason
buried in my puritanical youth,
Shady Lady), 1 never owned
a sheep-dog approaching, say,
Tango’s . standard, let alone
that of Dr. Kelley's trial-
winners. But then, a good
many men who have spent a
lifetime among sheep haven't,
either.
On the other hand, I have
owned a good many dogs, of
one sort and another, particu-
larly cattle-dogs; the basic
lessons in training are much
the same; and, like all dog-
cranks, I have my own
theories . . .
In advancing some of them
I might reasonably plead that,
so far as sheep-dogs were con-
cerned, I didn’t get a fair go
in my youth ; that promising
pups were snatched away by
unscrupulous relatives, and
going away to school inter-
rupted training and compli-
cated proprietary rights ; and
so on. But there is no evad-
ing the fact that, apart from
Shady Lady (who, when she
settled down, proved a good
worker and, to my joy, worked
for me), I’ve never owned a
really good sheep-dog. In
recent years I’ve lived in
places where there was no
work for one, anyway. And
—since Shady Lady, after all,
was trained by someone else
—my qualifications for dis-
agreeing with Dr. Kelley could
hardly be more flimsy.
But . . . Once a dog-crank,
always a dog-crank; and a
crank and his theories are soon
parted. About this matter of
basic training, I've always had
doubts. But, before going into
these, possibly ridiculous, and
in any case distinctly amateur-
ish opinions, let’s have a_look
at what the authorities say.
Police-dogs seem some dis-
tance removed from sheep-
dogs in their daily work, but
Kelley gives quite a bit of
space in his book to the
methods of Sergeant Denholm,
of the N.S.W. Police Force ;
partly, no doubt, from the
point of view of general
interest, but also, perhaps,
because he is interested in
(without necessarily accepting)
the theory that anything a dog
can be taught tends to improve


’ 1
p
*
A
o
'O
o
ip
Nylon adds the finishing touch
Nylon and wool go together beautifully. Not only do nylon accessories
complement wool garments so well (stockings for instance), but nylon blends
superbly with wool. It gives advantage to light-weight woollen fabrics that
could not otherwise be enjoyed.
Today, through the establishment of the fast-developing BNS plant at
Bayswater, Victoria, nylon is proudly taking its place as one of Australia’s
vital secondary industries. v
(fNylon)
British. Nylon Spinners (Australia) Pty. Ltd,
224 Queen Street, Melbourne,


what does this symbol
mean to you, as a Grazier l
is the symbol of greater safety, greater
efficiency.
is the symbol of the proven method of
Castrating and Tailing of Lambs and
Calves.
is the symbol of reduced lamb mortality and
greater production.
is an Elastrator Green Rubber Ring.
ELASTRATOR
Registered trade mark
GREEN RUBBER RINGS
the modern method of
CASTRATING and TAILING
ORDER YOUR SUPPLIES TODAY
from your Wool House or Local Store
For Further Information Contact:
ELASTRATOR CAUST.) PTY. LTD.,
125 William Street, Melbourne, Yic.
his ability to learn. As Kelley
remarks, some experienced
trainers of sheep-dogs hold
this opinion, teaching their
dogs all sorts of parlor-tricks:
“As an example, when Mr.
H. H. Harris brought his good
dog General Haigh to Aus-
tralia for the Canberra Sheep-
dog Trials in 1947 after win-
ning the New Zealand Cham-
pionship, he was able to give
a most interesting display
during the luncheon interval.”
Kelley remarks that Den-
holm always calls the dog’s
name before giving an order
(for convenience this has been
Association of flock-movements with orders by signs.
omitted in the text) and
continues: —
It should be appreciated, how-
ever, that the sergeant's methods
have been applied principally to
Alsatians, bloodhounds and crosses
of these breeds, all of which are
in the police kennel. He has
also applied them successfully to
dingoes and, indeed, has recently
done so with a bitch-pup the author
brought to him from North
Queensland .... The tasks these
dogs perform cannot often be
associated with any natural urge.
For example, to jump through a
fire-encircled hoop or to climb a
ladder cannot be compared, as an
instinctive action tor any dog, with
the herding of sheep by one bred
for that purpose for centuries. On
the other hand for police-dogs to
follow trails by scent would be
similarly instinctive. One would
be quite ready to believe also that
instruction in the performance of
tasks which are not instinctive
would require great firmness on the
part of the trainer. It is question-
able, therefore, whether sheep-dogs
need or should be subjected to such
strict discipline as that imposed
on police-dogs. It is doubtful, also,
if all would be tough enough to
stand the treatment, and some
Swt e ."l2S,,^a„5 e woSS
be hard enough, and they might
be improved greatly by being
subiected to it.
Whether the police-dog
course is applicable to sheep-
dogs or not is immaterial.
Anyone interested in training
dogs is interested in any kind
of dog-training, and, if new
tricks don’t necessarily improve
a dog’s ability to learn, a con-
sideration of other methods
may well be useful to the dog-
owner. Dr. Kelley doesn’t say
this, but it is probable he had
it in mind when describing
Denholm’s methods. Person-
ally, I found the section inter-
esting for its own sake, and
also because it tended to sup-
port my own belief that, giv-
ing due weight to Dr. Kelley’s
qualifications, the early lessons
of training are much the same
for any breed.
No dog, in my opinion, is
any the worse for being taught
to sit, come to heel, and SO
G n. The rest seems to be
T aree | v a matter of inherited
T§ d . matter or inherited
characteristics, in working-
dogs (and most breeds were
originally workers, of one kind
, n ther) and lcnnements
built by experience around
these characteristics ; the
orderly shaping of a dog's
e xnerience is of onmsp a nart
- D er |Ce IS, Ot COUise, a part
°f training.
Denholm found that from
. .
eight to 12 months was the
best age for his dogs to com-
mence their tra i n i ng but “if a
, , , , , ,
dog is to be developed under
optimal conditions he believes
the pup should be taken when
a bout eight weeks old, handled
. , °, , . ’ . , ,
quietly and be gradually guided
along lines which will eventu-
allv lead to regular lessons.”
*_ r , ,
The first part of what
follows makes excellent sense
applied to any dog ; the latter
!»" » an example of training
f° r special purposes.
“Dogs learn by repetition,
~ • ,
a " d >? im P ress ° rders U P°"
,hem les j ons must be re P eated
° ver and over aga.n. Simple


NOTHING EQUALS
WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY!
l warm ray
w >. L kwxwv
• TRIPLE PURPOSE
• SLOW COMBUSTION
• AIR CONDITIONING
HOME HEATER
MODEL 1 H.D/ STANDARD
has over 7,000 cu. ft. heating
capacity, equipped with a non-
jamming shaker grate.
• BURNS ANY SOLID FUEL
AND NEED NEVER GO OUT
★ Beautifully enamelled on
solid cast iron, Model H.D.
duces a new mottled CERAMIC GREY, a
matching tint for the contemporary or traditional home.
HAWAIIAN CREAM or MAHOGANY is also available. Owing
to fuel saving the “Warmray” actually costs nothing!
fuel bill at least 75%. " . j
mm
'
.•mi
v^%
m
M
Installs in rooms with or
without fireplaces.
MOSEL No. 3
SUPER DE LUXE
★ Capacity Over 10,000
cu. ft.
★ Special large firebox for
long burning.
★ Extra large hotplate for
cooking.
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented
Heating Tubes (illustrated below) which are built into
the firebox. The air in the room passes through these
tubes continuously, thus maintaining an even, overall
warmth.
World patented heating
tubes make this the most
economical and best room
heater of them all, regard*
less of price!
ill
MUTING
British Ministry of Power and Fuel gives Warmray
an efficiency rating of 83%.
IMITATED? ? OFTEN!!
EQUALLED? ? NEVER! !
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers
and Hardware Merchants everywhere.
Warmray Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray”, *25-2216.
If unobtainable locally, ’phone, write or call for illustrated
brochure and name of nearest agents.
WAR/HP-34 A
lessons are given first. When
they are mastered others which
are more difficult may be
introduced. At the commence-
ment of training, lessons should
not be longer than 15 minutes
for one occasion and on no
account must any continue if
the dog should become dis-
interested. Training is given
with best results in a situation
where the trainer and his pupil
are absolutely alone. Moving
objects, such as other dogs,
persons, or even a bird flying
past, may distract the dog’s
attention and take his mind
off his work.
“Nothing tires a dog so
much as repeated practice of
the same exercise. Although
repetition is necessary, too long
a period on one task will,
therefore, be disadvantageous.
The period should be broken
by short pauses, with other
tasks or by a short run.
Furthermore, the dog should
always be patted and told he
is a good dog at the conclu-
sion of each lesson. Harsh
or ill-treatment is to be avoided
at all times, but firmness is
essential, and disobedience or
partial fulfilment of an order
must not be tolerated. Often
dogs are shy, frightened of
noises and fearful of strangers.
These may not be great dis-
advantages for sheep-dogs
customarily working with their
owners in quiet open places.
However, any suggestion of
these traits would make a
police-dog useless for his
special purpose.' Such dogs
should be frightened of
nothing.
“In order to accustom them
to the sight of strangers the
young dogs are led through
crowded streets. This pro-
cedure familiarises them with
noises incidental to city traffic,
but they are also taken under
railway bridges where noises
are even more intense and
terrifying. In order that the
noise of gun-shots, even when
from machine-guns, should not
frighten them, the dogs were
taken to an engineering-works
where automatic riveting-
machines were in operation.
In such situations fear and
flight or attack were often the
first reactions of the young
dogs, but it was found that
when they were restrained,
pacified and soothed, the dogs
soon became accustomed to
their surroundings and would
stay quietly and unconcernedly
beside their trainer.”
And this, remember, is
simple conditioning of rookies.
For my part, if a dog with that
background so much as
wrinkles his nose at me some
night in a bank, I’ll go quietly.
No good saying “Shoo!”
Great importance is given
to the tone'of voice in which
commands are given. Some,
in Denholm’s opinion, should
be short and sharp, others
should be drawled; and it’s
important to stick to the same
tone for particular commands,
so that the dog will associate
the one with the other. None
should be shouted:
Tones of voice are difficult to
describe in writing, but to indicate
his method the Sergeant suggests
that such commands as “Sit,”
“Flat,” “Place,” “Drop it,” “Sit-
up,” “Shake” and “Hop over”
should be given shortly and sharply.
“Stand,” “Heel,” “Seek,” “Quiet,”
“Dead” and “Crawl” should be
drawled, whilst “Come,” “Fetch
it,” “Speak-up,” “Carry it” and
“Climb” should be spoken
encouragingly.
The first lesson is coming
when called. Denholm uses a
cord about 25yds. long, one
end attached to dog, one to
trainer. The youngster .is
allowed to wander, then called :
“Come in, Snip!” The only
time, Kelley notes, when the
name follows the order. At
the same time the pupil is
pulled in by the cord, and
praised every time he responds.
The lesson is repeated daily
until the young dog comes
without being pulled, and
further lessons are given when
he is running free.
Walking at heel is the second
lesson. Denholm considers a
trained dog should stay as
close as possible to the
trainer’s left leg, but keep his
head slightly more forward.
He should maintain this posi-
tion whichever way the trainer
turns. A piece of sash-cord
about 6ft. is used, loose end
in trainer's right hand, the
other hand holding the cord
about 6in. from dog’s head.
The trainer moves off smartly
and, jerking slightly on the
cord, gives the command
“Heel!” And so on, turning
right, left, smartly. A wrinkle
during the first few lessons is
to walk alongside a fence, dog
on inside. Then, if he attempts
to dive ahead, he can be
trapped between fence and leg.
Sitting is differentiated from
lying down, but the latter is
taught as an extension of the
former.
Lying down, belly-to-ground,
is taught by first putting the
dog in the sitting position and
passing the leash-cord under
the trainer’s foot and up to
his hand. The dog is forced
down, to the command “Flat! ”
by a sort of pulley arrange-
ment. When down he is
patted and praised.
Standing is taught from the
fiat position. While the dog
is lying down and restrained


PORT LINE
Regular service of speedy, Modern Cargo Vessels to United Kingdom
and Continent for carriage of livestock, wool, General and Refrigerated
Cargo
• Accommodation for a limited number of Saloon passengers.
■V i
m
Z Z ** <#1 11 »IHI i
For further particulars apply to . . .
PORT LINE LTD.,
(Inc. in England)
50 YOUNG ST., SYDNEY 27 5301
or GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Brisbane, Newcastle, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle and Hobart.
A. G. WEBSTER & WOOLGROWERS LTD., Launceston.
AUSTRALIAN ESTATES CO. LTD., Townsville and
Rockhampton
ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO., Cairns.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUN LOR (Cliairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
R. J. VICARS, A. MURRAY JONES, HUGH DIXSON,
D. A. T. DICKINS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. 0. LEWIS, General Manager.
by the noosed leash, the
trainer’s foot is slipped under
his belly, and he is raised, tP
the command “Stand!” For
teaching a dog to halt while
walking, and come to a stand
position, Denholm recommends
tying a stone to the end of
the leash, walking alongside
a fence, then dropping the
stone over the fence, almost
immediately giving the com-
mand. The dog will stand
when he feels the tug and, with
practice, will obey the com-
mand without the reminder.
The pupil is also taught to
stay at a particular place, to
retrieve *in a special manner,
to search for an article-*-an
extension of the retrieving
lesson —to bark at command,
and to carry.
All .this, Kelley reports,
Denholm regards as basic
training “and considers these
exercises should have been
thoroughly and obediently
carried-out before anything
further is attempted. When
this has been accomplished a
preparatory stage has been
reached and the following
tricks may then be taught.”
“The following tricks”
include sitting-up, which,
Kelley notes (a famous lion-
tamer, in his autobiography,
mentions the same thing con-
cerning his charges), puts an
unusual strain on the back
and loin muscles at first,
shaking hands, jumping—a
two-edged sword, Denholm
warns ; a dog taught to jump
is hard to keep in a yard —
climbing ladders and catching.
There is no mention here
of catching malefactors, which,
if disappointing, is perhaps
understandable. Apart from
anything else, it must be a
tricky business teaching a .big,
powerful dog to blend firm-
ness with discretion in hand-
ling persons ; and it, too, can
be a two-edged sword. The
nearest I have been to any
“Country Life” photo.
At Lithgow (N.S.W.) Show.
such advanced canine train-
ing was in a p.-0.-w. camp in
Germany, outside which, in a
special school, German sol-
diers conscientiously baited
Alsatians with British battle-
dress. Marching in a working-
party once, we encountered
one of the dogs, loose, in a
narrow lane. He looked a
monster, and, thinking of his
daily exercise, we held our
breaths as he trotted past,
brushing against first one, then
another, then —bounding for-
ward, he savagely attacked a
German officer riding a bicycle
at the rear of the party.
But to get back to basic
training. Denholm finds that
barking at command is diffi-
cult to teach. He advises
watching the dog to see
whether he barks naturally at
any object ; then, so to speak,
cashing-in on it, giving the
order “Speak-up!”—my own
technique with Tango —and
making encouraging noises.
Another dodge is, when a dog
is tied-up, to walk towards
him as though to release him,
then stop and walk away. If
he barks his disapproval, stop
and encourage him, then let
him go. In a sheep-yard, too,
it’s useful to have a dog
“Speak-up!” Kelley mentions
clapping hands and waving a
handkerchief as two aids to
barking.
Some details of teaching a
dog to stay in a particular
place (also basic training) are
interesting:
This is done by using a cord
some 25 or 30 feet in length and
a stake driven into the ground.
One end of the cord is made into
a noose and put on the dog while
he is in a standing position. The
cord is then passed behind the
stake and held in the trainer’s
hand so that there is a right-angle
in the line of the cord where it
passes behind the stake. When
these arrangements have been com-
pleted the trailer faces the dog
and, walking backwards, moves
slowly away from it. Should the
dog make any attempt to move
towards the trainer, as it probably
will until shown what is required,
the movement is checked by tension
on the cord and the command
“Place!” is given. As the lessons
progress the distance between trainer
and pupil is increased and even-
tually the cord is discarded. When
the lesson is learned it can be
extended to teach the dog to go
back to a position. This is done
by giving the command “Back to
place! ” and pulling on the cord,
which, for this purpose, is again
passed behind the stake. The ten-
sion causes tjae dog to return to
his original position. The lesson
is useful in teaching a dog to
stand guard over an article.
Denholm considers crawling
a punishment for a dog, but,
Kelley says. ‘‘This may be so
for 'ordinary dogs, but it is
often advantageous for a
sheep-dog to approach his
sheep by this movement,
indeed, many shedding-dogs
in the Old Country maintain
it while taking marked sheep
away from their mates. When
the action is used for sheep-
work, however, it will be
because the sheep are jumpy
and only the most cautious
movement will direct while
maintaining control over them.
Under these conditions, the
procedure will be completely
neutralised if the dog comes
to his feet suddenly when the
sheep begin to move. If he
approaches them while he is
close to the ground he must
remain there until it is safe
for him to rise.”
Mention of “shedding-dogs”
recalls that there are more
kinds of sheep-dog than are
commonly seen in this country,
including such strange ones as
the Mexican guard-dog which,
invariably foster-mothered by
a ewe, apparently grows-up
believing it is a sheep. If a
sheep strays from its particu-
lar flock, the dog takes him
by the ear and “leads him
gently back to his position.”
Also the New Zealand hunt-
away, used particularly for
mustering rough country in the
snow-leases of the South
Island. “No greater contrast


Most Powerful Combination
on the land Today!
UPER SURE-GRIP
with "Torque Control"
It’s the tyre with the traction and
the stamina to get peak performance
from today’s high-powered tractors.
Twist power in the axle is
“torque” and the deep positive
bite of Goodyear Super Sure-Grip
makes the most of torque output
to use all the energy your
tractor motor generates. The lugs,
sheer-faced and deep, give full power
thrust. With this traction-action at
the point of power, you cover
more ground on less fuel.
Z*t£S»js£* t *
C^f^ u -
f^pe»***
~ u centre j
with oth betv/e i er \s a« ickly , (
sm ootn goil i s tinU m4
s urf ace ’ j in a col t c tic>n-
rel ea jf f .cleanxn^ c
toJifpe
a ip? iu4s
Ww u stno° tk y t longer-
*
T
* ?
•: c-
-0 3
05
i
NOTCHED
with exclusive
Riß FRONT TYRE
"GRAVEL GUARD"
This one has huskiness and something more. The special
notched rib tread takes a “gear wheel” grip that really
“meshes” with the soil to give precise steering all the way.
An important and exclusive -feature is the “Gravel Guard,”
a protective rim flange cover of tough rubber to prevent
stones, gravel and snags penetrating between rim flange
and tyre and causing damage to tyre or tube.
GOODYEAR TUBES-
Pre-shaped to fit Tyres
and Rims just right.
Some tractor tyre tubes are built in a standard round mould without regard
to the tyre or wide-base rim in which it seats. Goodyear tubes, on the other
hand, are moulded to conform to the contour of tyre and rim. Result of
this “tailoring” is more uniform seating and the elimination of excess strain
on any particular area, a big reason Goodyear tubes give longer life.
w
MORE FARMERS PREFER GOODYEAR TRACTOR TYRES THAN ANY OTHER KIND
ZCB4


THE BACKBONE OF THE WOOL INDUSTRY
The high-priced clips of Australia owe their success to the infusion of
TASMANIAN SAXON MERINOS
'’RHODES”
Longford
"WINTON”
Campbell Town
"KENILWORTH”
"VALLEYFIELD”
Epping
"ROSENEATH”
Ross
"PLEASANT BANKS”
Evandale
INSPECT Stud and Selected Rams at the forthcoming Midlands
Agricultural Show, Campbell Town; 7th to Bth June, 1960, and
Melbourne Sheepbreeders Show from
FAMOUS TASMANIAN STUDS
Australian Seasonal Wool Records were again established by clips using
sires from members of the
Tasmanian Fine Merino Breeders' Association
Tasmania tops the market again, 490 pence
J. G. CUFF, Secretary, 1 -21 St. John Street, Launceston.
to the silent and stealthy Aus-
tralian worker than this noise-
maker could be imagined. In
trials for huntaways one of
the most valued attributes is
noise, the other two being
style and command.”
Unlike these two, shedding-
dogs are trained, not bred, and
are used in other sheep-work.
In Scotland the shedding-dog
is a sort of four-footed
drafting-gate. Shedding is
included in the International
sheep-dog trial. Certain sheep
are marked with a red tape
tied around their neck, and,
for the final trial, the shepherd
has to shed or separate these
from the flock of 20. Neither
shepherd nor dog is allowed
to touch the sheep. They
divide them by gestures of the
crook, and the gradual, creep-
ing movements of the dog.
“There is a dog in N.S.W.
which has won trials in the
Highlands, where shedding was
a feature,” Kelley comments.
“In this country a flock of 400
lively young Merino wethers
was split into two flocks, each
held adjacent to the other, but
kept separate by this dog
which was able to describe a
figure of eight around the two
groups.”
In the early stages of Kelley’s
programme, the main thing is
to win the pup’s confidence:
The preliminary stage during
which confidence is being won
probably will last until the pup
is approximately seven months of
age. In it the pup should have learnt
several elementary lessons. He will
recognise his name very early.
Obedience also should have been
enforced at all times. This is
done by never letting the pup get
away with an act of disobedience.
A frequent one is associated with
his reluctance to be chained-up or
to be put in his yard after a run.
When this occurs, attach to the
pup’s collar a long, stout cord —
Venetian cording is excellent.
Leaving the pup where he is, and
with one end of the cord in the
hand, go some distance away and
call the pup. If there is no response,
walk steadily towards him, calling
him from time to time. Probably
he will make off, and the faster
he does the more severe will be
the lesson when he reaches the
end of his tether. The object is
not to hurt the pup unnecessarily
but to teach him not only to
“come in” when he wants to, as
for food, but to do so at all times
when called.
A short cord is used to
teach the pup to walk at heel,
and, in addition, a stick is
waved in front of him to
restrain him from running
ahead. He is taught not to
cross in front “because cross-
ing between the man and the
sheep during work is a cardinal
fault.” Using the cord, short
or long, at first, the pup is
taught the three main lessons,
“Come here,” “Come behind,”
and “Down.”
E. G. Broad, a well-known
New Zealand sheep-dog man,
thinks a pup should be taught
to answer to its name, “sit
down” and remain sitting by
the time it is three or four
months old. The pup then
moves from “his A, B, C, to
Standard One work.” Lessons
of “Standard One” are “to
lead nicely on a cord at heel
and to move right or left, for-
ward or backward on
command.”
Mr. Broad recommends
keeping the pup away from
sheep until he has been
thoroughly grounded in these
lessons. Dr. Kelley, on the
other hand, thinks so much
drill away from sheep may
cause some dogs to lose their
initiative.
After such authorities as
these one would hesitate to
express an opinion, but for
the fact that basic training is
not restricted to sheep- and
police-dogs ; it does a dog ofi
whatever breed no harm ; and
certainly a pup taught these
simple lessons is easier to
handle in later life ; less likely,
for instance, to be bowled-over
by traffic, or to destroy the
milkman.
Basic training, as 1 under-
stand it, is something less
rugged than Sergeant Den-
holm’s course for probationary
police-dogs; more in line with
Dr. Kelley’s prescription. The
idea is to teach the pup to sit
and come behind as early as
possible.
All the same, I've had mis-
givings. I had them a few
years back, trying to persuade
a roly-poly little Cocker bitch-
puppy to co-operate. She
didn’t get the idea at all,
squirming playfully one
moment, very hurt the next,
making it plain that, whatever
we thought we were doing,
she didn’t like it. And, talk-
ing it over,* my wife and I
decided we couldn’t blame her.
How would we like it, we
wondered, dumped in a world
of creatures about a hundred
feet high, queer-smelling, utter-
ing unintelligible noises, with
great trampling feet? Who,
after treating us kindly for a
while —so the instinct to have
no truck with monsters was
lulled—suddenly made noises
at us and began pushing us
around?
True, there was that ancient
.alliance between dog and man,
which makes the pup, deprived
of the companionship of the
litter, turn to man as a sub-
stitute. But it must have been
puzzling to a small pup;
puzzled, she still forgave us,
was willing to play and forget;
but we kept insisting, pushing
her down.
• It seems reasonable to sup-
pose that the tenuous link
between human and pup could
be, if not destroyed, at any
rate impaired, at this stage;
and this could be reflected, in
later life, by a certain hesi-
tancy, or even unwillingness
to learn. It is established that
the average human brain is
capable of all sorts of aston-
ishing tasks, but is used, in the
majority of cases, at only a
fraction of its power. How
much of this inferior working,
or laziness, is caused by early
discouragement in the busi-
ness of learning? I suspect,
quite a bit. No one likes to
feel a fool. No child does;
no pup does. A natural re-
action is to say, “To hell with
the whole silly business.”
All this could well be an
argument in favor of Dr.


TIE WIRE-NETTING
GERRARD
AUTOMATIC
RING FASTENER
GUN - - - 60/- each
GALVANISED FASTENERS
ll- per iooqr
THIS EASY WAY-
(2S yds, per minute)
Rin§ Fasteners are sold
in packets of 1000
As fast as you can squeeze Its
easy-working handles, this self-
feeding gun effortlessly clamps the
14 Gauge cement-adhered staples into sturdy 1 in. rings, which are automatic
fcaHy fed into t;he jaws. There is no wastage—the job is quick, neat and strong,
Available from ALL WOOL HOUSES and
GENERAL STORES
Manufactured, by Qerrard Engineering Pty. Ltd., 18 Ireland St., W. MELB,
Kelley’s method of deferring
the elementary training, until
the pup has more confidence.
Against that, there’s a bulk of
experience (and some eminent
theological opinion) to suggest
that the earlier habits are
formed, the more likely they
are to become fixed. And
training animals is largely a
matter of fixing habits.
We didn’t reason it out
exactly like this at the time.
Maybe—being also, to a large
extent, creatures of habit —we
didn't reason at all. But, on
the spur of the moment, we
tried a new approach. One
of us held the pup and gave
the command “Sit,” which the
other promptly obeyed. Then,
at a call, the human came
galloping up, and was praised
and patted. Then we swapped
roles.
The pup watched all this,
bright-eyed, tail wagging with
excitement. So it was a game?
Good. She wanted to be in
it. She went through her
performance, in turn, per-
fectly, and was eager for more.
With variations, this proce-
dure was followed for the rest
of the' v pup’s basic training.
There was only one snag—
we acquired a very odd reputa-
tion in the neighborhood.
With all proper humility,
I’m inclined to think the idea
could be pushed further in
training. You need, for one
thing, a co-operative wife.
Also, a paddock sufficiently
remote from neighbors. It's
hard to keep such goings-on
secret in the suburbs—even
the outer suburbs —and to' the
casual observer they look very
queer indeed.
However, Dr. Kelley is
strong against letting the young
dog imitate older dogs in the ,
early exercises with sheep:
“The rough-and-ready method,
which cannot be too strongly
deprecated, is to let the pup
run along with the other dogs
and, in course of time, imitate
them —while adding faults of
his own. To secure satisfactory
results from welhbred, pups
and to bring out their inherent
advantages, such methods will
not suffice. It is like putting
a deaf-and-dumb boy on a
building job undertaken by
unskilled workers and expect-
ing him to become a master-
craftsman.”
Yes, but —what if the other
workers are master-craftsmen?
One can see the point that a
young dog might not develop
initiative if worked with older
dogs, but perhaps the point
has been pressed too hard.
The time to start a pup with
sheep, Kelley says, is when he
is keen. “This can be expected
any time from six to nine
months of age, and generally
a well-bred and well-grown
pup will be commencing by
six or seven months of age.
Bitches are frequently quicker
than dogs in this respect ; and
light, early-maturing kinds are
quicker than those of slower-
developing and heavier build.”
It’s not proved a pup is no
gbod if he doesn’t show interest
in sheep at nine months or
more. “Roy, described as the
one-eyed wonder, three times
first in the International and
so outright winner of the
Challenge Shield, was com-
pletely indifferent to sheep
until nearly two years of age.”
The pup is already familiar
with the sight and smell of
sheep. Then:
Having determined that the time
has come for the pup to begin
serious training, the stage should be
properly set. Probably the pup
will split the sheep, cause them to
ring, and make a host of other
mistakes. Further, it should be
remembered that among its litter-
mates, a pup has learned to play
by holding with its teeth. Thus,
when it first sees sheep it fre-
quently does the same with them.
If this happens, it provides no
evidence that the pup will later
become a confirmed biter. It
should be noted, but no other
action taken. Whatever happens,
therefore (short of something which
must be regarded as a criminal
offence not to be tolerated or
expected in a sheep-dog), the first
occasion should be regarded as the
pup’s day to do what he likes
and interference with him is most
unwise. An old dog should be at
hand to straighten things up, or,
if this is impossible, the flock and
the paddock should be small enough
for control of the situation to be
easily regained. If the pup is
checked unnecessarily he will never
forget it. This is crucial. Further,
and within wide limits, it applies
to the first few times the pup tries
to take charge.
A couple of “don’ts.” Don’t
pick sheep which will stick-up
on the pup, or wild, free-
running ones.
After these early lessons, the
pup can be classified as one
of three general kinds: “The
first ‘sets’ the sheep, either as
a natural ‘clapper,’ that is,
going down on the ground,
or standing head-down and
eyes staring. This may be
followed after some delay with
a more or less hasty approach
and by movement round the
flock. The second may stand
some distance off and then
move toward or round the
flock. The third will intro-
duce more action, coming in
closer than the second kind and
getting more action out of the
sheep.”
The second and third kind
will present few difficulties, the
first may or may not, depend-
ing on the time taken to move
out of the fixed position.
The first exercise is designed
to cause the pup to bring the
sheep steadily towards the
trainer:
Have a flock of 30 or 40 sheep
as near as possible to the ideal
kind already described. [Ones that
will move away from the pup, but
not too fast.] Put these together
with an old steady dog, or on
foot in a small paddock. Come
relatively close to them, say live
or six paces off, and let the pup
off the chain.
If he is one of the second or
third kind, probably he will run
around them. Pups of the first
kind probably will stand off, set
in a fixed position until the sheep
move.
When the pup runs around the
back the trainer should move
smartly across the face of the sheep
and block the pup, thus preventing
him from completing the circle.
The pup will turn back on his
track. Then the trainer, moving
backward all the time as the sheep
move forward, again meets the
pup on the other wing. This pro-
cedure is repeated until the pup
keeps to the half-circle opposite
the trainer. It may be that he is
keeping too close in to the flock.
If the trainer has armed himself
with some light sticks about six
inches long or a few clods or
pebbles, this can be cured readily.
The pup can be “kept out” if the
trainer tosses these between the
youngster and the sheep. Care
should be taken, however, not to
introduce this move until the pup
has developed sufficient keenness
to retain his concentration on the
sheep and merely avoid the inter-
fering obstacles. It is neither neces-
sary nor desirable to throw to hit
the pup.
If things go well, the old dog
can be sent off, and the pup
left in charge. The pup should


WILCOX MOFFLIN, LIMITED
15 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Foundation Floor Members of
Sydney Greasy Wool futures Exchange
Overseas Associate Members
London Wool Terminal Market
Association
Phone:
BU 2441
(11 lines)
Telegrams:
“Wilmoff, Sydney.”
with the all-round needs of
the London market.
The year John Macarthur
died —on April 11, 1834 —Aus-
tralia sent 4,500,0001 b. of fine
wool to England, twice as
much as was then being
imported annually from
Spain.
And it was not many years
before it had also conquered
the Saxon market.
A flock bred to the original
types and from the original
stock, which never had any
Saxon or other admixtures, is
sltU kept at Camden Park,
which ceased, however, to be
a sheep-station late in the
1840’s, after having been the
first one, in the ,modern sense,
to be established on this
Continent.
The New South Wales
Sheep Breeders’ Association
has felt it fitting that it should
celebrate the 160th anniver-
sary year of the sending of the
first Merino fleece to England
in H.M.S. Buffalo in 1800 by
naming this year’s sheep show
the Macarthur Show in honor
of the father of the wool
industry, John Macarthur, the
man who grew that fleece, and
the members of his family who
co-operated to place Austra-
lian fine wool firmly on the
world market and establish its
peerless reputation.
be allowed to run right around
the flock sometimes, and the
trainer should walk right
through the flock, so the pup
gets some heading and turning
practice. The idea is to give
some variety, make the game
interesting. But, with all this,
the lesson should be short.
At this stage, Kelley says,
don’t make the pup “go
down” in order to stop him
going beyond the half-circle.
It will distract the pup. First
let him understand that he can
control the flock, and move it.
When this is established he
can be taught how to do it
properly, and the “down”
signal can be used. s
The other kind of pup was
left frozen: “This kind of
youngster is called ‘hard-eyed’
and his object, applied to the
sheep, is our own childish
game of ‘staring out.’ The
idea is that his baleful gaze,
if continued long enough, will
cause movement in the sheep
—a surmise which, if it
becomes a habit, will develop
into a state resembling auto-
hypnosis. To get results the
stare must be associated with
movement, be it ever so slight.
This can be seen in fully
trained and highly accom-
plished competition-trial dogs.
A little “eye,” Kelley com-
ments, is an advantage for
show work, because it can be
associated with a steady lift
and naturally restricts from
over-running a cast or head-
ing movement. But, at this
early stage of training, the big
thing is to get the pup—and
sheep—moving.
The New Zealander James
Linlico, in Sheep-dog Memoirs,
gives some tips on training
hard-eyed dogs:
My father taught me how to
prevent the several faults the strong-
eyed young dog will assuredly
make if not taken in time. One
of the worst and most common
things is diving in on sheep. A
young dog with a strong eye should
never be asked to come on sheep
when close up to them, as, if
forced on, it is almost certain to
rush in. Get him a chain away
and coax him on, stopping and
restarting him until the sheep
move . . . Another fault the strong-
eyed youngster is inclined to is to
set the sheep before completing
the head .... If they ever showed
the slightest inclination to stop
before completing the head, the
cure was to make them go right
around and “come in ahint” again
several times, then change the run
off the other hand, and repeat
the lesson. Another common mis-
take among trainers is to hurry
the training of the young dog . . .
With the strong-eyed dog this
means spoiling; though with the
plain worker it can be done, as
he simply does what he is told
and never does anything except
what he is told.
The lesson of moving and
holding the flock should be
“repeated and repeated.” The
reason for these early “head-
ing” exercises, Kelley says, is
that a pup can be taught to
stay at heel and drive sheep
easily enough, but if kept from
heading in the first place, may
not so easily run out and
gather sheep: “Misunderstand-
ing of this point has spoilt
many promising dogs.”
When the pup can bring the
flock quietly behind the
trainer, say in a northerly
direction, the exercise should
be repeated in the other, three
directions, the trainer altering
his course, and the pup mov-
ing over.
Kelley analyses these move-
ments in some detail, with the
use of diagrams. The diagram
on page 52 shows what happens
in the early exercise:
When the trainer moves from
east to north, the pup moves
from west to south, that is, in
the opposite direction. This is
equally true for every change of
position. It is emphasised that
when the trainer’s body moves one
way, the dog moves in the oppo-
site direction. If now the trainer
stood at point E. in the figure and
made a pretence of moving to hi.,
the dog would expect the move-
ment to be carried-out and pre-
pare to move from W. to S. The
fully educated dog makes this
movement when the trainer’s
pretence of movement in that
direction is made by elevating his
right arm.
And now we are getting
very close to the principles of
both paddock- and trial-work.
In fact, Kelley emphasises the
importance of these exercises
by an illustration of a work-
ing position in a standard
“three-sheep” trial: —-
The working position then is in
a circle or at a peg in line with
and to the right of the opening
in the obstacle. If now a line
is drawn across the gap and through
the working position representing
the west-east line, and one at
right-angles through the obstacle,
representing ,t h e north - south
line, then the working-field
is divided into four quadrants
through which the dog must move.
Within this field the worker’s
position is either fixed or restricted.
If he were permitted to move
about freely the dog would auto-
matically take-up the positions
taught in the early exercises with
the flock. The worker is not able
to move about, so he must evolve
signals w’hich the dog will under-
stand. Further, the plan is that
these should simulate and follow
on the fundamental flock move-
ments already made.
With the trainer standing at E.
and facing either N., W. or S., the
raised right arm should move the
trained dog anti-clockwise from E.
to S. through N. and W. Now, to
walk from E. through N. to W.
during the flock exercise, the man
would move off with the right
shoulder on the outside of the
circle, hence the right arm.
Again at E. and facing W., the
raised left arm should move the
trained dog clockwise from S.
through W. to N., and to walk
from E. through S. to W. the left
shoulder would be on the outside
of that circle, hence the left arm.
If this reads rather like
geometry, it certainly is clear,
followed point-by-point. It
also makes clear the import-
ance of these early flock-
exercises.
And so, step by step, one is
led, firmly but kindly, through
the various stages of training
a sheep-dog. So that one is
almost tempted to think that,
after all, it might be possible
to do something of the kind
oneself, someday . . .
But, on second thoughts,
and particularly after watch-
ing the sheep-dog trials, this
ambition will seem a fair bit
beyond for most of us.
Great trainers, like great
sheep-dogs, presumably are
born, not made. The training
is important, vital, but there
has to be some extraordinary
foundation to build on, one
imagines. A matter of genetic
make-up, perhaps . . .
However, as all the authori-
ties agree, the business of
training a sheep-dog is largely
one of common-sense, and the
application of lessons worked-
out over the years by a great
many dog-wise men. It seems
highly probable that, with a
bit more thought and patience,
many dogs could be trained
a lot better.


W^sm
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Paid-up capital—£2,ooo,ooo
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Fully guaranteed by
Waltons Limited
-CURRENCY
INTEREST
PER ANNUM -
Trustee for the Debenture Holders:
Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd.
Underwritten by:
J. B. Were & Son
Prospectus with application form
available from
All Branches of the
• National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
• Bank of New South Wales
• Commonwealth Trading Bank of Aust.
or
• All Members of the Stock Exchange
and direct from
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Telephone 61-9273
Cnr. Park and George Streets, Sydney
Please send me, without obligation, your prospectus for
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock.
NAME ....v.' -
ADDRESS 1
WAJ 13
A Queensland View
By C. BOWHAY
(President, Queensland Stud Sheep-breeders’ Association)
"jVTEVER has there been greater
enthusiasm among those
directing Queensland Merino
Studs than there is at present.
This enthusiasm is a very
good thing for the industry
and for Queensland. I hope
everything possible will be done
to stimulate it.
Queensland studs are improv-
ing their standard at a splen-
did rate with purchases of high-
class rams and ewes from the
south, and by better husbandry.
Travelling around Queens-
land 1 can see vast improve-
ment, not only in the quality of
the sheep but in the general
standard of husbandry and
attention to detail.
There is a tremendous inter-
est in scientific development
such as fleece-measurement and
fertility-testing, hut, above all
else, in improved pastures —
which means nutrition.
In Queensland we have been
the victims of a most unusual
season. Sheep areas have had
only patchy rain. The south-
west corner of the State has
had one of the worst periods
on record.
The plough’s application to
the sheep-industry looks like
proving valuable as an aid to
pasture-improvement, but the
dry season has prevented
graziers from doing all the
work they planned.
There is so much being
learned about the better utilisa-
tion of country that we should
see a million bales of wool sold
in Queensland within a decade.
The present Government
has made a good attempt to
improve the stud-Merino indus-
try with its legislation on stud-
leases. This will require all
studs to do a good job in future,
but there are some anomalies
in the legislation, and the
Q.M.S.S.A. is doing its best to
have them eliminated.
Costs, unfortunately, are out
of control. As to prices, the
1959-60 wool-selling season
opened nicely with a rise of
Bd. to lOd. lb. The market
carried on at a reasonable level
until the January sales, then
a slide set in until the end of
March, when there was another
slight rise.
The average sheepman finds
it hard to understand the rea-
son for these fluctuations. Why
should graziers who sell in
February have to take 6d. to
lOd. lb. less for their wool than
if they sold it now? It is one
of the problems the industry
will have to face-up to.
It is a pity that an expert
committee comprising
growers, manufacturers, brokers
and Government representatives
has not been set-up to inquire
into the schemes that are put
forward to secure a reason-
able .return for the wool-
growers.
The South African and New
Zealand schemes could be
studied to see if they have
achieved anything to stabilise
prices.
New Zealand under its floor-
price scheme see me d to
receive higher prices for the
coarser wools than Australia
did last season.
Most graziers, being busy
men, have not the time or the
information to pass a correct
opinion on this vexed question.
We are told the woolgrowers
of England are guaranteed a
price in the vicinity of 58d.
sterling for wools in much
stronger counts than the great
majority of our 60-to-70
quality. Australians would be
very happy to get prices based
on that guarantee.
American growers believe
they are well protected by a
tariff rising on a quantity basis
from 25 cents to 45 cents.
No doubt the auction system
has served well, with all im-
provements of woolselling over
the years, but it is our duty to
see that it is a true auction
system, and a committee-of-
inquiry could help us a lot on
this question.
The Queensland graziers are
voting now on a reserve-price
within the auction system con-
ducted by the United Graziers
Assp. and it will be an interest-
ing vote because it has been
conducted without campaign-
ing for “yes” or “no,” just a
decision by the grazier for
whatever he believes right.
Some leading manufacturers
in Queensland are really
perturbed at the fluctuating
prices of the Australian clip.
Synthetic prices are compara-
tively stable.
I believe the wool-industry
would get favored treatment
in any other country ; but in
Australia we pay freight two
or three times greater than for
some other products.
The wool-industry means so
(Continued on page 73)


Special ... Sensational ...
OFFE
Saves you up to SISS'S'-
Sheep
Shearing
Machinery
"GUN" HANDPIECE
It doesn’t matter what
the condition or make, now
you can trade-in your old
handpieces on the new Wolseley
“GUN.” It’s specially
designed for faster, easier,
less tiring operation. HERE’S
PROOF it’s the handpiece for
YOU.
“. . . the handpiece was given to
shearer B. Madden on 4th January,
1960, exactly as received from
you. This machine was received
back on the Bth April and
during these 14 weeks this
machine crutched 12,647 sheep and
shore 3,719, during which period-
there were no adjustments made in
any respect.
“I would say that the Wolseley
‘Gun’ handpiece is the best hand-
piece that 1 have had in my thiYty-
six years of shearing experience.”
SIGNED: MARTIN URQUHART
(M. M. URQUHART SHEARING CO.)
fcv
■
a
WmM
wi''. *
YVOLSELEV O
WOLSELEY WIDE CUT
ItriS
Pre-ground, wide-throwing
cutter for fast shearing.
It. :
WOLSELEY SUPER-CUT
COMBS
Specially thinned and
superbly finished. Factory
heel ground to preserve the
bevels.
★ HERE’S WHAT YOU SAVE ON OVERHEAD GEAR
The above price includes erection of plant ready to shear, new
Oregon planking, handpieces, etc., and double-ended ball-bearing
grinder with driving belt, pulleys.
★ HERE’S WHAT YOU SAVE ON ELECTRICAL GEAR
Don't continue to make do with old,
worn overhead or electric gear. Trade
it in now on the outstanding new
Wolseley machinery. You’re sure of
faster, easier, more profitable shearing
when Wolseley goes in the shed and
you’ll save two ways.
FIRST, you’ll save 15% off the full
retail price with your trade-in, and
SECOND, you’ll immediately cut oper-
ating costs, because Wolseley’s proven
trouble-free performance means less
maintenance and less upkeep. GET
THE FULL FACTS BY CONTACTING
YOUR NEAREST BALTIC SIMPLEX
AGENT.
He’ll arrange ' this special trade-in
price and the erection of your new
Wolseley Plant ready to shear. Phone
or write now. This offer is for a
limited period only.
Distributed and serviced throughout Australia by
E
A
MACHINERY CO. LIMITED
608-614 Harris Street, Sydney. BA 2538
Head Office and Factory: Hall Street, Spotswood, Victoria
Queensland: 115-117 Merivale Street, South Brisbane


Of interest to
Graziers, Businessmen
and Others
who wish to relax with their families in the informal
and congenial surroundings which, summer or
winter, are unique to
■ 02 OM
on the Central Coast of New South Wales, two
hours only from Sydney, with the ocean lapping
at the “cabin” doors.
Proud of our accommodation and unsurpassed
cuisine —full board —we invite you to pay us a visit.
Full particulars from
The Secretary, "KIMS," Toowoon Bay,
via Long Jetty, N.S.W.
be relied on to give a satisfac-
tory product. When a new
wool is purchased, however,
even though it may have all the
required external dimensions,
no results can be guaranteed
until the first lot has passed
through the mill. This is a
serious fault and one that does
not concern the user of syn-
thetics to the same degree.
Why then bother with wool
at all?
We use it because it is
capable of producing a fabric
that cannot be beaten. Sheep
have worn it for millions of
years for exactly the same
reason that we do, and it is not
therefore surprising that wool
is the ideal apparel-fibre.
With our new knowledge of
wool-quality some exciting pos-
sibilities present themselves.
A long, coarse fibre that is ex-
tremely soft could be a worth-
while development in view of
the popularity of mohair. Only
recently I examined some Lin-
coln wool that had exactly
these properties. If used in
the way that purebred English
wools are traditionally used it
might well prove a failure, but
now there is the possibility that
this sample may lead to a com-
pletely new type of wool-fabric.
Can we hope to breed a wool
that will be more resistant to
chemical and pest damage? I
believe we can, and even at the
moment, if we had a greater
knowledge of fibre-substance,
an enormous increase in effici-
ency would be possible.'
Survey-work is now. in pro-
gress, and within the next few
years we can look forward to
the development of these new
ideas into sound practices
aimed at making use of the in-
herent variations in fibre-sub-
stance.
These variations are the key
to the unparalleled versatility of
wool.
New-look Wool
By M. A. HIGGINS
(Technical Development Officer, Australian Wool Bureau)
Everybody is talking about
the wonderful things that
have been happening to wool.
Once a housewife had to
wash woollens with great care ;
they had to be stored in moth-
balls for protection against
insect attack and constantly
pressed.
But now
% woollies can be popped
into the washing-machine
without fear of shrinkage ;
# moths steer clear when
they see a “mothproof” label ;
# creases “stay put” and
woollen skirts can be perman-
ently pleated. '
Mills are producing sheer-
wool fabrics, printed wools
and non-iron wools. In fact,
wool now has all the desirable
properties of man-made fibres,
and more.
How did all this happen?
For several years it appeared
that the wonderful scientific
advances which yielded a
stream of these new “squirt”
fibres would eventually mean
wool’s displacement in the
textile field. However, science
is a many-edged weapon, and
research throughout the world
has made science the power-
ful partner of wool. In the
words of world-famous Paris
dress - designer Schiaparelli,
“Nothing can take the place
of wool —nothing.”
Australians should be proud
to know that our scientists
have been to the forefront of
this exciting field of wool-
research. Our own C.5.1.R.0.
“backroom boys” have led the
world, and produced a host of
new processes and treatments
for giving wool easy-care and
easy-wear properties.
First, they 'succeeded in
banishing moth-damage. Once
it was thought that the clothes-
moth was “wool’s best cus-
tomer”; but now, thanks to
the C.5.1.R.0., millions of
pounds of wool have been
given long-lasting protection.
The treatment, which involves
the use of a chemical, dieldrin,
is now being widely used in
Australia and overseas on
goods such as blankets, knit-
wear, suitings, hand-knitting
yarns and floor-coverings.
Then the problem of shrink-
age was solved. Of course,
there is nothing new about
shrinkproofing. Methods have
been available for more than
50 years, but none came up
to the ideal. Some treatments
were too costly. Others
required the use of noxious
chemicals.
Some, whilst making gar-
ments unshrinkable, also made
them unwearable.
Research-workers at the
C.5.1.R.0., Geelong, tackled
the problem of finding a
shrinkproofing process that
was effective, easy to apply,
cheap, and preserved the
appearance, “handle” and
strength, of the wool. The
treatment they came up with,
called GB, uses two simple
chemicals —common salt and
Condy’s crystals. Although
only a recent development, the
G 8 process is already being
used by Australian textile-
manufacturers to treat a wide
range of woollen goods. Even
blankets can now be washed
again and again without any
change in their softness', shape
and size.
Another triumph for the
C.5.1.R.0. was the develop-
ment of the Si-Ro-Set process
for permanently creasing and
pleating all-wool garments.
A simple spray-and-press
technique does the trick. As
a result, creases and pleats
stay-put forever. Neither long
wear nor even driving rain
will rob men of the sharp
Si-Ro-Set creases in their
trousers. Australian garment-
makers have been quick to
recognise the virtues of the
Si-Ro-Set treatment, and
already 180 clothiers have
adopted it. Over 2,000,000
garments have been Si-Ro-
Set since the process was first
introduced. Overseas manu-
facturers have also shown
much interest. In fact, Si-Ro-
Set is now being used in prac-
tically every wool-consuming
country in the world.
Perhaps the most spectacu-
lar advance has been the
C.5.1.R.0.’s new process for
washable non-iron wool. “The
most exciting discovery since
the first wool was woven,”
was how W. A. Gunn, chair-
man of the Australian Wool
Bureau, described it. Here
again, the process is compara-
tively simple, but the results
are excellent. Garments made
from the fabric can be laun-
dered and, when dry, worn
with little or no ironing. Dr.
M. Lipson, Chief of the
C.5.1.R.0. Division of Textile
Industry, recently showed a
“trade” meeting a shirt which
had been washed and dried
over 200 times without iron-
ing, and it was smooth and
sound. Commercial manufac-
ture of treated materials is
being stepped-up, and gar-
ments, particularly shirts and
blouses, are already appearing
in stores throughout the
country.
These revolutionary pro-
cesses herald a new era for
wool. Now carefree wear has
been added to all the incom-
parable qualities of wool. It’s,
a notable achievement for
Australian scientists, a boon
to the housewife and a triumph,
for wool.


WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
mm
/ >
\ (
\ V'/ *• ;
l ' I
•( < '
r;
Cv^V
/•**
f/7
r/ ( ?
f®
Sjj
rid re
if
i
A
r,
:j
/ v
a j 3
&
Jj TKe Old Biff'd
ih-i.y* *i Scotch Whisk)
Cellar
A*;.
n off
Tu-r
ISTILLfRS LTO
([LIAR
W IK<?
Httanm «wrr rsim ri mi wnm ■ vM
Q
(I I»\K
Pleasant accompaniment to
bar-side discussions, White
Horse Scotch Whisky. And
at least one subject upon
which complete agreement
is always reached —for it’s
an age-old fact that there
is no finer Scotch Whisky
anywhere. White Horse . . .
of course.
Available in three handy sizes:
36-oz. bottles, "halves" and
"quarters."
At Standard Brand Prices.
R 67
WESTRALIAN VIEWPOINT
CHr Edward Lefroy, who
for 40 years, was in com-
plete charge of Cranmore Park
Stud, Walebing (W.A.), until
he handed it over to his son,
P. B. Lefroy, and who is now
at Colvin, Round Hill (W.A.),
has a great deal to suggest about
the improvement of the West-
ralian wool-clip.
In “The Countryman” (April
17, 1958) he stated:
“It has been suggested that
the two principal causes of
complaints about our W.A.
wools are the long, dry sum-
mers and poor breeding. What
can we do about these things?
“With present knowledge, at
any rate, we cannot alter our
climate. Nor have we rivers
to make possible irrigation. But
in all our agricultural areas we
are able to grow feed and store
it to be fed to the sheep, as
required, over the dry period
of the year,
“If this is done in a thorough
way there is little doubt that
not only can the wool be
improved but sheep-numbers in
most cases can be doubled. As
to what should be fed is a
matter of personal opinion
and of locality.”
Admitting thd need for better
feeding and better breeding,
Sir Edward offers a practical
method of feeding he uses at
Colvin, where over 7000 sheep
are fed by' one man twice a
week.
Both wheat and oats are fed
to them, principally wheat.
Near lambing as much as 41b.
wheat is fed to each ewe. All
sheep are made accustomed to
feeding on oats, and gradually
wheat is used in preference,
even with weanefs which each
get 31b. a feed twice weekly.
Following dry winters an addi-
tion of green-cut wheaten hay
is allowed to most of his sheep.
If Westralian sheep are to
produce better wool-clips, says
Sir Edward, flockowners must
recognise the need for better
breeding. He is much in favor
of sheepbreeders making use
of the information available
from the extension-services of
the W.A. Department of Agri-
culture and its officers.
All the same, Sir Edward
feels that it is essential for Aus-
tralia to preserve its reputation
for good medium-quality wool
The Australian wool-clip, he
points out, has become famous
because of its good medium
wool and fine wool, but the
area available in the Common-
wealth, including Tasmania,
suitable for producing super-
fine wool is very small. In his
opinion the average type of
Australian wool is not intended
for the specialised and expen-
sive materials for which Tas-
manian fine wool is bought.
The average 645-60 s wool is
used for a far bigger range of
materials.
Without wishing to commit
Australia to growing only one
type of wool, because the
markets of the world require
various types, Sir Edward em-
phasises that the greater part
of Australian Merino wool is
by tradition 64s quality. There-
fore, he says, evidence seems to
point to the fact that we should
not set out to push strength in
the Australian Merino wool-
clip and thereby diminish the
quality for which Australian
wo'ol has become famed.
Writing to The Bulletin a
little time ago, Sir Edward
Lefroy added this characteristic
paragraph to his letter:
“A point I do wish to make
is to stress the importance of
the Mules operation, plus tail-
strip. We have made full use
of these since first introduced
by the C.5.1.R.0., very much
to our advantage. My son,
P. 8., who will be one of the
judges- at the forthcoming
Sydney Sheep Show, several
years ago invented a table for
holding lambs while they are
being marked and mulesed.
We are convinced that the
whole operation—mulesing and
tail-strip—should be carried
out at the same time, and have
practised this with complete
success for 20 years.”


WOOL FUTURES...
Wm. HAUGHTON & GO. LTD.
FLOOR MEMBERS
SYDNEY GREASY WOOL FUTURES EXCHANGE LTD.
Our services are available from the following locations:
SYDNEY - - - - 24 Jamison Street.
Telephone 27-4471 (Mr. D. R. Brown).
MELBOURNE - - 545 Little Collins Street.
Telephone 67-8611 (MrJL. C. Robinson).
BRISBANE - - - Scottish Union House, Eagle Street.
Telephone FA1835 (Mr. K. D. Gunn or Mr. M. Haenke).
ADELAIDE - - - 88 Currie Street.
Telephone LAI4II (Mr. H. J. Blackwell).
ALSO FLOOR MEMBERS IN LONDON
A Famous South Australian Stud
By "TOISON D'OR"
Nearly all the big-framed
Merinos of South Australia,
with their high returns to the
sheep or to the acre, have blood
that comes from either Mount
Crawford, Bungaree or Koon-
oona. These three parent-studs
have played a large part in
S.A.’s development of the
Merino. At recent Stud Merino
field-days, the name Collins-
ville dominated one of the two
weeks of displays and no men-
tion of breeding in S.A. is com-
plete without reference to the
Hallett stud of John Collins
and Sons, or to the Dutton
family’s Anlaby, oldest of the
lot but still going strong.
When Rhine Park, at Eden
Valley (S.A.), ceases to be a
, registered stud at the end of
this month, one section of
Merino history will disappear
from the Australian Flock
Register.
Present studmaster, J. Elliott
Murray, has applied to the S.A.
Stud Merino Sheepbreeders’
I Association to have his flock
withdrawn, though Rhine
Park was allotted flock num-
ber 127 in 1921 when the
N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Associa-
tion set-up the first register.
In 1843/ S.A. pioneer, A. B.
Murray, father of Sir George
Murray, Chief Justice of S.A.,
first brought sheep to his
property at Mount Crawford,
which is now a closely-settled
district on the fringe of the
Adelaide Plains.
At that time the Governor
was the explorer, Captain (later
Sir George) Grey and Captain
Charles Sturt, a member of the
Legislative Council, was in
Adelaide planning his last
northern trip.
Early in the Mt. Crawford
story, John Murray took over
his brother’s interests, increas-
ing the flock by adding some
Tasmanian ewes in-lamb to a
Tasmanian ram. Rhine Park
Merinos of today are directly
descended from that root-stock
without any infusion of outside
blood whatsoever.
When John Murray died in
1886, Mt. Beevor, Cappeedee,
Mt. Crawford and Rhine Park
Were the properties where the
four sons placed their shares of
the flock.
The second John Murray
died in 1908, leaving two sons
in partnership in charge of the
Rhine Park Merinos. By 1917,
J. E. Elliott Murray had taken
over the property and sheep
which have not suffered any
violent upheavals since then.
Today he and his wife live in
the gracious homestead, built of
local sandstone blocks in 1870,
with another wing added in the
same pleasant style at the turn
of the century. The Merinos
have always shown progress,
although the greatest increase
in weight and quality of wool
has come about in the last 20
years.
Rhine Park and Cappeedee
used to exchange sires. In the
April series of this year’s S.A.
Merino Field Days in the mid-
north, Cappeedee under John
Murray showed some well-
sprung and well-woolled sheep.
Collinsville bloodlines have
now been introduced into this
Hallett stud which displayed
its shop-window ,of 1960 in a
violent duststorm. This John
Murray has a son, Alistair,
helping in the stud.
Elliott Murray was bom on
the property taken-up by his
father. As a boy, he used to
ride on his pony to some yards
in a paddock’s corner, hitching
his reins to a ring in a tree.
Today, both spike and ring
show only as a slight scar on
the trunk of the majestic red-
gum. This link with his youth
will pass away, because Elliott
Murray has no family to carry-
on traditions.
Withdrawal of this stud’s
registration is sad. Its even line
of sheep, their blood reaching
to the early days of the State’s
development, grazing in near
natural pastures on the park-
like estates, have always been
an ideal example of popular
conceptions of what a stud
should be like.
Murray will, however, now
be free to experiment with his
sheep of 60s fleeces and able
to introduce rams of varying
strains, without being restricted
by studbreeding requirements.
On land reduced in recent
years from 8000 acres to 5000
acres, 600 stud ewes are mated.
Ranges rise not far from the
homestead and rabbits still
thrive in this mixture of sandy
soil and rocky outcrops. There
are flats which are highly pro-
ductive in this 21-inch rainfall
zone.
Rhine Park’s treasured
trophy was won by Elliott
Murray’s father in 1873. Made
of solid silver and a work-of-
art, it was presented by “a few
old colonists now resident in
England” and awarded at the
Royal Agricultural and Horti-
cultural Society show in Ade-
laide for the best-combing -
wool ram. The figures of
Jacob and Rachel are depicted
at the top, with a ram and a
lion at their feet. Other rams'
(Continued on page 68)


SYNTHETIC FIBRES
By Dr. T. G. HUNTER
(Professor of Chemical Engineering:, University of Sydney)
The production of syn-
thetic fibres has in-
creased enormously and
steadily since their
introduction to the U.S.A. in
1940.
Many reasons lie behind
the phenomenal growth of
these fibres. Produced in uni-
form quality from chemical
raw materials they can be
manufactured to meet desired
fibre specifications. They
possess the price - stability
inherent in chemical products,
and are endowed with the
highly desirable properties of
strength, abrasion- and wrinkle-
resistance, and dimensional
stability. Their economic
impact on the Australian wool-
industry has already been
considerable. With rapidly
increasing populations and
improved living-standards a
rising world demand for
woollen fibres should have
resulted in an unparalleled
era of prosperity for Aus-
tralia had these demands not
been largely cushioned by
supplies of synthetic fibres.
During the last few years
the situation with regard to
synthetic fibres has undergone
a considerable change. Pre-
viously the chemical industry
had not been greatly interested
in synthetics. To it, the tex-
tile trade was definitely a
Cinderella. This stepchild,
however, is now wearing the
glass slippers, and synthetic
fibres have become one of the
top sections of the chemical
industry in the value of the
chemical raw materials con-
sumed, the value added in
manufacturing, the tonnage
and worth of the goods pro-
duced, and in the number of
professional chemists and
engineers employed.
In the U.S.A. the textile
industry is responsible for
sales valued at over £2OOO
million a year, while the world
textile industry has sales in
excess of £7OOO million a year.
This represents an attractive
and steadily expanding market
for chemicals in the form of
synthetic fibres, their raw
materials and associated
chemicals.
The largest chemical com-
pany in the U.S.A., Du Pont,
had synthetic-fibre sales in
1958 worth over £3OO million.
The Celanese Company had
sales of £75 million, and
Chemstrand sales were £B6
million. This gives a total
of £461-million-worth of syn-
Prize-winners
Yarramine Whisky and owner, B. O’Kane, winner of the
Open Trial at the National Sheep-dog Trials, Canberra.
thetic fibres and associated
chemicals sold by these three
companies alone in the U.S.A.
In Australia during the
season 1957-58 the gross value
of the wool produced was
£342 million —very little more
than the value of the syn-
thetic fibres sold in the U.S.A.
in that year by a single chemi-
cal company.
The second-largest value of
all wool grown in Australia
occurred during the 1956-57
season, when the wool-cheque
was £482 million: only just
greater than the 1958 synthetic-
fibre sales of the three largest
producers in America. In
that country competition to
the Australian wool-industry
is obviously intense, and a
similar pattern must steadily
but surely develop throughout
Europe and Japan in the next
few years.
This year it is expected that
the textile sales in the U.S.A.
will be up 8 p,c. to 9 p.c., and
by 1965 it has been estimated
that the textile market will
be: —-
' Cotton : 4300-million lb.—9 p.c.
ahead of 1958.
Wool: 300-million lb'.—l3 p.c.
down from 1958.
Rayon : 1000-million lb. —9 p.c.
down from 1958.
Synthetics: 1150-million lb. —
145 p.c. ahead of 1958.
Textile glass: 150-million lb. —
40 p.c. ahead of 1958.
Total output: 6900-million lb. —
16 p.c. ahead of 1958.
If these estimates are
realised it is obvious that a
huge and attractive market wlil
become available to synthetic
fibres. This growth has been
rapid, as in 1940 only three-
million lb. of synthetics were
produced, which by 1950 had
increased to 122-million lb.,
while by 1958 nearly 500-
million lb. of synthetic fibres
were manufactured.
It is obvious that in an
expanding textile market syn-
thetic fibres are going to
attempt to get a large and
heavy share. The competition
between wool and synthetics
must therefore increase, and
wool must become increasingly
subjected to intense and high-
pressure competition from
the chemical industry.
Synthetic-fibres Research
The chemical industry is
well known as an area in
which extensive research and
development is carried on by
producers for the benefit of
customers. Nowhere is this
more true today than in the
case of synthetic-fibre pro-
ducers.
The research policies of the
Du Pont and Celanese com-
panies well illustrate this
situation. Each of these com-
panies has extensive labora-
tories in which new synthetic
fibres and fabrics are
developed, new dye techniques
are invented and new colors
and designs* are styled. Each
laboratory is a small-scale
replica of the entire textile
industry, and each will .quickly
make a bolt of a new fabric
for any customer using his own
yarn. The laboratories of the
Celanese Company, for
example, make over 3000
fabrics a year, primarily for
women’s wear and home-
furnishings, and they may be
working on 5-10 modifications
of any single fabric at one
time. It is significant that this
laboratory reports directly to
the company’s Director of
Marketing.
It should be emphasised
that no single fibre can
satisfy all textile requirements,
and hence it is obvious that
synthetic fibres cannot meet
all performance demands.
There is no doubt that the
previous high enthusiasm for
synthetics has waned because
they could not live-up to all
the extravagant claims made
for them. In some cases, also,
they have been misused with


El OCT •„
r I ll»I in
banking service
to the wool
industry
The Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia Limited has, for many years, enjoy-
ed the reputation as THE BANK to which
wool men may look for specialised service,
friendly advice and guidance.
With over 800 offices spread throughout
Australia, New Zealand and London, the
C.B.A. has accumulated a wealth of infor-
mation of special value to the wool industry.
•%»
r\
/■ ■■
m
C:
s <
It pays to consult
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Many services are available including
0 A Complete Banking Service to meet the
needs of all sections of the wool industry.
0 Information on Overseas Markets and the
provision of Trade introductions.
0 A comprehensive travel service including
travel bookings, hotel accommodation, travel-
lers’ cheques, currency and assistance in
obtaining taxation clearances and visas.
The C.B.A. will plan and arrange travel itineraries throughout the world
THE
BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Head Office: 335 to 339 Collins Street, Melbourne.
oJZlL*0LAUeO
CBBS/FP


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office: ASSETS EXCEED £20,000.000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines). H. G. CRAY, Manager.
poor results. There is, how-
ever, much future promise for
widening the use of synthetic
fibres, particularly in recent
developments employing new
raw materials, new chemical
processes and new techniques
for spinning.
One of the most important
methods for the manufacture
of synthetic fibres is by means
of the chemical reaction
known as polymerisation. In
this reaction small molecules
of a single chemical of simple
structure combine with each
other to produce long chain-
like molecules of a more com-
plicated nature. Such long-
chain molecules are particu-
larly valuable for the produc-
tion of both plastics and syn-
thetic fibres.
A very good example of
this is the polymerisation of
the gas ethylene, which pos-
sesses a small molecule of
simple structure, into the large
and more complex molecules
of the plastic polythene.
New methods of polymerisa-
tion have been recently dis-
covered which enable the
actual structure of the result-
ant polymerised molecules to
be controlled to some con-
siderable extent. This results
in what chemists call a more
crystalline molecule from
which very strong and high-
melting fibres can be readily
spun. Such new methods when
applied to the manufacture of
synthetic fibres will undoubt-
edly result, not only in the
production of new fibres with
new properties, but also in the
modification and property
improvement of some existing
fibres.
Another important chemical
method for the manufacture
of synthetic fibres is the chemi-
cal process called co-poly-
merisation. In this reaction,
two different chemicals, again
possessing small molecules of
simple structure, are caused to
combine with each other and
form large chain-like mole-
cules made up of either a ran-
dom or ordered arrangement
of many molecules of the two
original chemicals. The pro-
perties of the fibres produced
from such a co-polymerisation
process are largely an average
of the properties of the
two chemical components
employed.
Fibre chemists have, how-
ever, recently discovered two
entirely new modifications of
this chemical reaction called,
respectively, block and graft
co-polymerisation.
In ordinary co-polymerisa-
tion the long molecular chains
produced may consist of many
single molecules of the two
original substances joined to-
gether either alternately or at
“Country Life” photo.
Shearing at Bowen Park (N.S.W.).
random to produce a long
molecular chain. In block co-
polymerisation, on the other
hand, long molecular chains
of one chemical substance
alternate with long molecular
chains of the second chemical
substance. The physical pro-
perties of the fibres produced
in this way are no longer an
average of the properties of
the two components, but
actually possesses the properties
of both.
In the second new process,
namely, graft co-polymerisa-
tion, molecular chains of one
chemical substance are
attached as branches to long
molecular chains of the second
chemical substance, and the
physical properties of the
fibres produced also possess
all the physical properties of
both chemical components.
These discoveries will certainly
have an important impact on
the synthetic-fibre industry.
For example, some synthetics,
while they possess many
desirable properties for apparel
use, have not been particularly
satisfactory or successful
because they cannot be easily
dyed, or because they are
prone to accumulate charges
of static electricity, making
their weaving difficult. Block
or graft co-polymerisation
processes could allow such
fibres to be synthesised with-
out these undesirable
properties.
Finally, the use of radiation
is another new tool for the
manufacture of synthetic
fibres. By this method the
polymerisation of simple
chemicals is actually brought
about by radiation and the
long chain molecules so pro-
duced are joined to each other
by cross linkages. This results
in stronger fibres which are
more heat-resistant, less soluble
in chemicals, and less elastic.
All these new techniques pro-
mise the future production of
entirely new series of fibres
with improved properties, and
what is still more important,
they will give chemists much
greater control over the physi-
cal and chemical properties of
the fibres synthesised by such
methods. This is definitely
bringing nearer the day when
synthetic fibres will be able to
be tailored to meet individual
fibre needs.
Synthetic fibres are usually
spun in the molten state or
when they are dissolved in a
solvent. A substance for which
no suitable solvent is known
or which is insufficiently affected
by heat to be properly plastic
when molten therefore cannot
be spun into a synthetic fibre.
A new spinning process has,
however, been recently devised
in the U.S.A. by means of
which such materials can now
be successfully converted into
fibres. In this process, devel-
oped by Du Pont, an emulsion
of a finely divided synthetic
is pumped through a spinning
device and then fused by heat
to form a continuous filament.
This new spinning technique
makes possible the production
of an entirely 'new series of
heat- and chemical-resistant
fibres.
Such new materials and new
processes, however, will not
mean the automatic entry of a
large number of new fibres
on to textile markets. While
the synthesis of new fibres
is relatively easy, the selection
of the proper one for com-
mercial exploitation is ex-
tremely difficult. Large sums
of money are required for
development, and initial plant-
investment costs are unusually
high. On top of all tins the
product has to be sold in a
variable and unpredictable
market.
Research and development
costs for a new fibre can easily
run from £5-10 million. In
addition, it is very difficult to
explore the market fully on
less than full-scale production,
and initial plant costs for this
may be anything from £l5-20
million, with another £lO mil-
lion needed as working-capital.
As an approximate rule the
capital-investment in a plant
for the initial production of a
synthetic fibre may be anything
from 10s. to £1 per pound of
annual production.
In the synthetic-fibre indus-
try research-expenditure is of
the order of 2.5 p.c. of product


*
H
\
m
Bf
Om>
HISTORY
IN THE
MILL OH
THE BAY
History is written into and around the Botany Mill of Australian Paper Manufacturers Limited. Its structures and
its “battery” of great machines extend over about 50 acres opposite that point in Botany Bay where Captain Cook
landed in 1770. It draws water from the same streams of the Botany Basin which supplied Australia’s first tiny water-
powered paper mill, built by two enterprising pioneers, Fisher and Duncan, in the infant days of the colony of New
South Wales.
That was in 1818 only 15 years after the world’s first mechanical paper mill was set up in England. Fisher and
Duncan’s pioneer venture disappeared, as did other mills that followed. Then, in 1901 the mill at Botany was founded
at the beginning of a great era of industrial development in New South Wales.
Then the site of the mill was virgin bush. Aborigines still roamed about the neighbourhood and communication
with Sydney was by horse-drawn dray or by the new steam tram ... ... . .
Today, Botany Mill, operating day and night, is the dynamic centre of a flourishing industrial region. It is a major
unit in the Australia-wide structure of A.P.M., an organisation owned by some 27,000 Australians, providing employ-
ment for thousands, and carrying out work of national, social and economic importance.
Buy Australian made
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
South Gate, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford In
Victoria; Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; Bayswater, WA.
SALES OFFICES IN ALL STATE CAPITALS


HOW TO GET ALONG
WITH A MAN
Getting along with men isn’t
what’s truly important — but
how to get along with a man,
one man! June Reader’s Digest
brings you knowledge picked
up along the “bumpy, difficult,
mutual path” of marriage.
Other articles include: The
Night They Burned The Mountain,
Being Taken in by the Vitamin
Racket?, Murder by Aeroplane,
Khrushchev s Uneasy Empire, Your
Child’s Intelligence is Not Fixed,
Into the Deepest of the Deeps, Is
Your Family Safe from Death by
Fire?, Voice from the Moon.
Thirty-one sparkling new
articles in June Reader’s
Digest. On sale NOW at all
bookstalls and newsagents. Get
your copy today. Only 2/-.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
heads on the trophy show in-
volved horn development.
Of the same solid design as
the woolshed and the home, the
stables are still much in use.
Elliott Murray, once a dashing
polo-player, relaxes from sheep
and other duties by breeding
thoroughbreds and racing.
One of the last drafts of rams
to leave the stud were going to
Kangaroo Island, the scene of
great increase in Merinos since
the post-war opening-up of
scrub. Rhine Park Merinos
used to be well known in S.A.,
in the flocks, at shows and at
the annual Royal Show ram-
sales. Now this flock, closed
for 117 years, is about to
branch-away from the lines
stemming from Captain John
Macarthur’s original Camden
Park stud.
sales. In Australia, the
C.5.1.R.0. is spending between
£2 million and £3 million a
year on primary-production
research directly and indirectly
aiding the wool-industry.
Over £1 million per annum
is being expended on direct
wool research under the new
Wool Research Bill. With a
wool-cheque of the order of
£4OO million per annum, these
together represent a total
research expenditure of about
1 p.c. of product sales.
It would appear from this
that, while the research
expenditure on primary pro-
duction is adequate, the
amount being spent on wool-
processing and customer-
service is inadequate. Today,
in the textile - industry,
emphasis is being placed on
“easy-care” and “wash-and-
wear” fabrics, and wool is at
a great disadvantage in this
respect.
One of the most-needed
types of wool-research is that
which would allow wool to
overcome its disadvantages in
these fields. Wash-and-wear
wool must obviously be one
of the major objectives of such
an effort, and some consider-
able advance has been made
in this regard by the Harris
Research Laboratories in the
U.S.A., which have developed
a process in co-operation with
the Army Quartermaster
Corps in the production of
washable shrink - proof
woollens which are believed to
be giving good performance
even under severe Army field-
laundering conditions.
When wool is laundered it
tends to fuzz, and the stop-
ping of this fuzz is probably
one of the bigger problems
facing wool-researchers. Some
progress has been made in
this by treating the wool so
that the fuzz falls off. Per-
manent creasing of wool is
difficult because of its elastic
properties, but again some
progress has been made in this
field. The best answer so far
has been the permanent creas-
ing treatment for wool
developed by C.5.1.R.0. known
as Si-Ro-Set, in which wool
is treated with a chemical
solution normally used for the
permanent-waving of ladies’
hair. All this work, however,
is small comparison with
that which is going on in the
synthetic field, and needs to
be considerably amplified.
Marketing and Sales-
Promotion
The synthetic-fibre industry
in the U.S.A. has pioneered
the development of many of
the sales-tools being used so
successfully today in this field.
These usually take the form
of customer-service, fabric-
development, sales - develop-
ment and advertising and pro-
motion.
The Du Pont Company first
customer-service,
which does just what the name
implies. With the co-opera-
tion of research-plant groups
and a textile laboratory,
customer-service works in
association with customers’
mills in developing techniques
for the handling, dyeing and
finishing, etc., of synthetic
products. This kind of sales-
promotion is almost com-
pletely lacking in the wool-
industry and must be initiated
and prosecuted vigorously if
wool is to compete with syn-
thetic fibres.
In fabric development, work
is done to bring out the best
properties of a fabric for a
given end-use. When this is
completed and a fabric has
been obtained which will give
a good basis for marketing in
a given field, such as, for
example, work-clothing or
sweaters or slacks, sales-
development then takes-over.
Sales-development is con-
cerned with such things as
market-surveys and research,
and after these are completed
the actual selling of the fabric
is handed over to advertising
and promotion. Chemical
companies look upon merchan-
dising as the selling of a fibre
not to, but for, customers, and
this carries on right down to
the retail-sales level, and
largely determines the work of
the advertising and promotion
group. This group therefore
produces descriptive literature
to educate buyers, sales-people
and consumers. It also handles
press, radio and TV releases.
Du Pont, as one of the largest
synthetic-fibre producers, is a
good example of this. Apart
from extensive advertisements
and printed media, this com-
pany has moved into tpp-
budget television. It sponsors
in the U.S.A. the 90-minute
“Du Pont Show of the Month”
and “Better Living Fibres.”
Du Pont’s total expenditure
on advertising and promotion,
much of which is devoted to
synthetic fibres, totals £l5
million a year.
If wool is to maintain its
place in competition with
synthetics, similar customer-
service , fabric - development,
sales-development and adver-
tising programmes must surely
be carried-out. Ten years ago,
who would have believed that
an American chemical com-
pany would be running, on
behalf of named Australian
retailers, full-page colored
advertisements in Australian
magazines for w o m e n's
sweaters made from synthetic
substitutes for wool? Yet to-
day we take such advertise-
ments for granted. When, if
ever, shall we find similar
services carried-out on behalf
of retailers of apparel manu-
factured from Australian
wool?
Unfortunately, for us here
in Australia, our wool-produc-
tion industry tends to adopt
a defeatist attitude with
respect to synthetic fibres.
We look with awe upon the
large sums spent annually by
the synthetics-industry on re-
search, development, market-
ing and sales-promotion, and
appear to consider that such
expenditure is beyond our
means. It cannot be too
strongly emphasised, however,
that such charges are only part
of the ordinary manufacturing
costs of synthetic fibres. The
final cost of the fibre to
textile-manufacturers includes
in it all such expenditure.
If, for example, Du Pont
were to operate the Australian
wool-production industry on
the same basis as their syn-
thetics production, they would
be spending £lO million a year
on research and development
and over £l5 million a year
on advertising and sales-
promotion. This immediately
raises the question as to why
such expenditure should not
be an integral part of the
Australian wool - production
industry.
The implementation of such
a policy would, of course,
mean that gross profits from
our total wool production
would be reduced by about
£25 million a year. Why is
it that Du Pont, with
synthetic-fibre sales almost
identical in value to Australian
wool sales, however, can afford
such charges?
Taking into account the fact
that the major portion of our
present expenditure on wool-
production research is paid
for by the Commonwealth
Government, and that
company - taxation in the
U.S.A. is over 50 p.c. of gross
profits., whereas very few
graziers pay income-taxes of
this magnitude, must we not
inevitably conclude that
insufficient expenditure is being
set aside by the wool-industry
for such purposes?


Be assured of a
SUCCESSFUL
YIELD
every year!
T>E ASSURED of a successful yield this year, and every year—irrespective
what the elements may bring. Know with absolute certainty and
accuracy what that yield will be, and when it will be received. Put your idle
money to work, earning a guaranteed interest yield in National Bank Interest
Bearing Deposits, available from 3 months to 2 years.
Throughout Australia, men on the land favour these Deposits because they
ensure that their money is not tied up for longer than need be. They also
enable them to maintain interest-bearing reserves which are immediately
available in cases of urgent need. There is no safer investment, with a guar-
anteed income and return of capital, unaffected by market fluctuations.
FREE-
Monthly Summary
of Australian
Conditions.
—including regular notes
on your rural industry
available at any Branch
or post free.
m*/WtL
If you have money lying idle discuss this safe,
convenient, profitable way of investment with
the Manager of your nearest National Bank,
NATIONAL BANK
SAFE AS THE
NATIONAL BANK
VUE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSIBA.LASIA LIMITED (INC. IN VIC.)
Tasmanian Saxon Merinos
By JOHN FOSTER
(Foundation-president, Tasmanian Fine-wool Merino Sheep-breeders’ Association)
old farmers used to
say, “Get your seed
JL from a cooler climate.”
Perhaps this is why
Tasmanian stock does so well.
The virtues of our Saxon
Merino sheep as wool-pro-
ducers are well known; but for
those who may not have heard,
or for those who have for-
gotten, I shall run through them
again.
Tops World Markets
The fact that the high-priced
wools of Australia have Tas-
manian Saxon Merino blood
and that for many years past
Tasmanian Saxon wool has
topped the world markets, says
much for this breed.
Although the woolgrower
first wants more profit to the
acre, which undoubtedly the
Saxon sheep gives him, he still
wants animals that are a joy
to look at and a pleasure to
feel. The Saxon Merinos’
wool is so beautifully soft that
old hands used to say: “You
could make angels’ scanties out
of it.” And today with the
many marvellous new materials
being made, it is in high
demand.
In spite of the export em-
bargo (which is retarding all
studs and has destroyed many),
death-duties, the acquisition of
many fine-wool properties and
our rising costs, many pastora-
lists are still finding to their
joy and profit that they can
run Saxon Merinos. But in
present conditions it is doubtful
if there will be any more high-
class studs. It takes many
years of the right environment,
skilled labor, many disappoint-
ments and a tremendous
amount of luck to build a
Merino stud, and the cost
would now be terrific. So it
is to the interest of the wool-
grower to do all he can to help
the studs. They have a lot to
contend with, but the wool-
grower should be on their side
and in the end he will find this
to his own advantage, because
it will encourage the breeding
of more and better stud-sheep.
Some people think Tas-
manian Merinos are too small,
but Sir lan Clunies-Ross was
concerned about the Australian
Merino getting too big. Big
sheep eat more. It takes no
more feed, sometimes less, to
produce a bale of superfine
wool. Excessive rain does not
damage the Saxon wool, and
Saxons will do well over a very
large range of environment —
from the Ninety Mile Desert
to the wet country in S.-W.
Western Australia on one side
and to the New England district
in N.S.W. on the other.
The greatest line-up of these
sheep can be seen at Tasmania’s
Midland Agricultural Show on
the second Wednesday in June.
A new and interesting per-
petual trophy has been donated
by Trans-Australian Airlines
for the ram most suited to Tas-
manian conditions, to be judged
by the man whose wool made
the highest price in the previ-
ous year. Sam Wigan, the
manager of Mount Morrison,
is judging this year.
History
I believe my maternal great-
grandfather, John Leake, was
the first to bring Saxon sheep
to Australia. We still have the


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year —19s. 6d.
British Empire; £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include .postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
permit for his first lot, which
reads:
To Mr. John Leake,
I am commanded by the Lords
Commissioners of His Majesty’s
Treasury to acquaint you that My
Lords have directed the Commis-
sioners of Customs in Scotland to
permit you to import from Ham-
burg to Leith four Saxon sheep to
be re-exported duty-free for Van
Dieman’s Land, as requested by
you.
I am,
Sir,
Your Obedient Servant . . ,
Treasury Chambers,
10th Sept., 1822.
The Leakes had a firm in
Leith, with a branch in Ham-
burg, Germany. They bought
much fine Saxon wool, and so
knew about these sheep and
were in a position to get the
best. These sheep were so suc-
cessful in the Midlands of Tas-
mania that John Leake soon
brought out more. My grand-
father, John Foster, brought
out Saxon sheep in the 1850 s.
The Furlongs, who gained ex-
perience with the Leakes’ Ham-
burg branch, also brought sheep
out and settled at Kenilworth,
near the Leakes’s property,
Ashby. We believe today that
most of the Taylors’ sheep are
descended from these.
Some Tasmanian studs in-
troduced the Vermonts, when
these sheep were fashionable;
a few did not, and some were
able to cull their Vermonts
altogether. There is no Ver-
mont blood in the present-day
Tasmanian Saxon Merino.
To Poll or Not . . .
It is possible that polling
wool-sheep is a mistake. Poll
cattle and mutton-sheep, by all
means, and poll your flock-
wethers by marking them; but
the Merino ram loses too much
when you poll him. Poll sheep
mature quicker than horned
sheep, but their useful life does
not seem so long, and one of the
advantages of the Saxon horned
rams is that their progeny will
cut good fleeces for many
years. When someone asks us
what we do with our old sheep,
we tell them we shear a good
fleece of wool from them.
When you mark cattle they
still grow horns; when you
mark a Merino at the proper
time he does not. Rams draw
on their horns when mating,
and this leaves quite a mark on
the horns. The formation of
the horns indicate many things;
they are handy to hold the ram
by; and, another great advan-
tage, you can see the ram if
he gets out of the paddock. In
fact, I do not know of one
advantage the poll ram has.
They were tried in Tasmania
over 60 years ago, but the
novelty wore off.
Buying Rams
When you buy rams, pick
them yourself. An expert will
generally only pick the latest
fashion —and fashions change
quickly and are expensive to
follow. Make sure the sire you
pick is pure and inbred. Beware
of a hybrid ram; he may look
good but his stock will not.
Outlook must always be the
first point to look for.
Grazing
For many years it was
thought that Saxon Merinos
A N.S.W. shearing-team.
would not run on improved
pastures and that if they did
they would not grow fine wool.
This theory lias now been dis-
proved. Two things we per-
sonally had to overcome were
worms and the lack of trace-
elements.
In the early days of Austra-
lian settlement Merinos seemed
to do well anywhere. There
was plenty of scrub and trees
for the sheep to nibble and
these trees brought up the many
trace-elements necessary for
their health. After the land
has been cleared and laid down
with shallow-rooting grasses for
a few years, the availability of
many of these trace-elements
is lost. . The best remedy is to
plant trees, pines for prefer-
ence. It’s a help, too, to use
the chisel-plough and add the
missing elements, if known.
Mutton
It would be quite easy to
make our surplus Merino
mutton more popular. Any-
one who has eaten station-killed
Merino knows what delicious
meat it is. This is because
sheep killed on the station are
not frightened. So the meat
retains its lactic acid.
If a butcher could find some
way of killing his meat without
frightening the animals first, he
would soon have people coming
to him because of his beautiful
meat. The Merino is more
nervous than other breeds, so
its loss of lactic acid is greater
when frightened. And when
exporters stop frightening their
animals and pack meat in cello-
phane instead of cheese-cloth,
people overseas will prefer our
frozen meat to their own fresh.
Rising Costs
We must do something about
rising costs, which are not to
be confused with inflation. In-
flation, or the cheapening of
money, can give temporary
relief to the producer when
costs rise. This is sometimes
the only way he can pass his
rising costs on. But prices are
mostly outside his control and
the rising costs all seem to be
passed on to him.
According to the Bureau of
Agricultural Economics, the
prices farmers receive for their
products had increased by an
average 73 per cent, compared
with the average for the previ-
ous 10 years. Over the same
period, however, the price he
had to pay for essential goods
and services had increased by
121 per cent. Wool is about
half the price it was 10 years
ago. Retail prices in Australia
have risen 134 per cent, since
1945, while average wages have
risen 219 per cent.
To be unable to identify the
enemy is dangerous. Rising
costs and low prices are very
deadly weapons. The man on
the land is now feeling them;
but he will not feel them gradu-
ally ; he will just be ruined and
communised in one final hit.
What with death - duties,
direct and indirect taxes and
higher prices, even the pen-
sioner pays., The factory and
the storekeeper pass their share
on with higher prices. The
wage-earner gets higher wages;
and all this makes the Welfare
State necessary and increases
government spending. The
producer alone is told to
tighten his belt, use more
efficiency and pay above 9 per
cent, or more on everything
when he wants to make any
improvements.
No one can produce profit-
ably and improve his property
with our ever-increasing costs.
Wool-promotion is helping, but
at present until we learn to
control rising costs it is only
postponing the evil day.


Mi
So many things that make life happier...
come through steel pipes
Life preserving water . . . the gas and steam for
heating . . . lines of power and lighting ... oil and
the raw materials of industry all flow ceaselessly
through pipes of steel to keep factory, workshop
and laboratory supplied; to keep civilisation,
itself, alive.
Only steel pipe is so economical, so dependable.
Its superior mechanical strength and stability in
price and quality are other good reasons why
steel pipe is so widely used.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts and Lloyds, the leading
Australian producer of welded and seamless steel
pipe.
55G.1.60
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollon-
gong, Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay,
Kalgoorlie


The Australian Wool
Bureau’s wedding gift
to Princess Margaret
was a pair of rose-
pink wool blankets.
The blankets were
some of the first in
the new pastel colours
to be produced using
the new C.S.l.R.O.
process, and were moth-
proofed and shrink-
proofed.
The Elastrator Rubber
Ring method of Castra-
tion and Tailing con-
siderably reduces the
risk of fly-borne infec-
tion and similar
diseases, because Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
leave no open wounds.
Without doubt Elastra-
tor Rubber Rings pro-
vide the safest, surest
and most humane
method of Castrating
and Tailing of your
lambs.
MTS
LYS
PAoor
100 % Au stralian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHT’S
ESTABLISHED 1884
WIRE NETTING • FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
5T3
m
'
*~T' J
. " "
SMa—ggsg gggggw i
-< - ....
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Hoad,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
An Uncabled Addition
Under the title “Silage
Made Easier,” the London
“Times” lately published an
article rejoicing that “silage-
making has really caught-on
at last”:
“The important thing is
this: the most economic
system of grass-conservation
for our [U.K.] climate is now
accepted practice. Three
seasons back the Ministry’s
estimate (England and Wales)
was 2y-million tons of silage,
tons of hay. This
year, by weight, it may well
be half-and-half, and both
high quality.
“Among those still to be
convinced about silage are the
small farmers in the rainy
West, and in Wales. For
them, big considerations are
the cost of equipment and
self-feed layout—though these
are coming down ; the awk-
wardness of small, sloping
fields; the need for hay, or
oatstraw, to keep the cows
warm in winter. But even in
those parts, silage is coming
in —often an oats and vetch
crop, giving high yields an
acre, and harvested by buck-
rake.
“Elsewhere, machines are all
the rage —there are at least 30
different models of forage-
harvester —and there is already
much sophisticated talk about
systems, costs, etc.
“A correspondent, with long
practical experience, writes’’:
With all these models on the
market, it is not surprising that
we have so many competitive
statistics about their output.
Actually, output depends on the
horsepower of the tractor you use,
the size of the trailer, and the
organisation of the silage-team.
It depends on the machine itself
very little, so long as it works, ot
course. The fact that some
machines cost twice as much as
others just shows what you can
get away with if you get in first.
When it comes to facts and
figures, you have to allow some-
thing for farmers and farming
before you take them seriously.
In calculating output, for example,
few farmers seem to know what
the weight of a trailer-load of grass
really is. Even quite respectable
people think a Ferguson two-
wheel tipper can hold two tons.
In practice, 20cwt.-25cwt. is nearer
the mark. It is a matter of how
dry the grass is, and how well
the harvester fills the trailer. They
do not all fill evenly, and this is
probably where the machine makes
the biggest difference.
Work-study is helping to stream-
line the job on some farms, and
incidentally to sell machines on
others. Manufacturers have not
been slow to jump on this par-
ticular bandwagon, which shows
bow respectable work-study has
become in farmers’ minds. But
how unrespectable it can be, when
it is exploited! After a recent
demonstration, for instance, one
firm published a summary of dog-
matic do’s and don’ts, based on
work-study findings. One of the
statements was: “Aim to keep the
harvester in work as much as pos-
sible. Do not take it back to
the pit.” Well, it all depends.
There are farms where that advice
would be incorrect. The table
below is one example. Six-hundrbd
tons (sic) of grass made into silage
annually.
The team in the first case (har-
vester kept in work) consisted ot
four men and a boy, using two
tractors with two trailers, one
tractor with a high-output forage-
harvester (£450), one tractor with
buckrake, and the boy on the pit.
The team in the second case
(harvester taken into pit) was three
men and a boy, using two tractors,
two forage-harvesters (£260 each)
and two trailers permanently
coupled, one tractor with buckrake,
and the boy on the pit. The higher
outlay on harvesting equipment was
£7O, but for an output of nearly
500 loads, the saving in favor ot
the coupled system was one man,
one tractor, 340 hours —say, £l4O.
The point is that, theoretically,
side-delivery into a trailer shuttle-
seivice, should go smoothly. In
practice, we find it often doesn’t.
A delay somewhere holds-up the
whole team. But a coupled
system, made-up of independent
units, keeps going. The houis
quoted cover a whole season,
including time lost, and the full
working day from seven each
morning, not just time in work.
Tons are not given—only loads.
In this case, the average load was
about 25cwt. yielding about
16cwt. made silage next winter.
This year, we have made all our
silage on the coupled system.
Last year, we used a shuttle ser-
vice, with two trailers on the go.
Man-hours, all in, were 1.85 a
load in pit last year, and 1.15
this year. We think we know,
now, which method we shall use
on this farm in 1960.
Hours Per 100 Loads.
Har-
Harvester vester
kept “in work” taken
(side loading), to pit.
Har- Trans-
vester. port. Total Total.
Short haul
(man-hours) 44 67 111 44
Long haul
(man-hours) 46 90 136 80
Mudgee Fleece Show
“Santoy”: The third annual
Fieece Show organised by
Mudgee (N.S.W.) Legacy is
being held this year on Novem-
ber 18 and 19 at Mudgee Tech-
nical College*.
The Show will take the same
form as last year's, and sched-
ules are available from J. C.
Stevenson, Secretary, Fleece
Show, Box 95, P. 0., Mudgee,
N.S.W.
Lambing Ewes in
Drought-time
“Pat O'Day”: There has
been tremendous loss of lamb-
ing ewes and their lambs lately
on N.S.W.’s South-west Slopes,
around Gundagai.
December joining took
place as usual, without regard
to past experience of severe
wintry conditions. Lambs
would therefore be born in
May or June, a rainy season
and intensely cold, when the
ewe would generally be carry-
ing a heavy fleece of about
nine-months’ growth, which
would help to weaken her.
Natural pastures would be


Only one hardboard
is 5 ways better
1. TIMBROCK is
always white-ant
proofed... at
no extra cost!
2. TIMBROCK gives
the most effective
hardboard surface
for painting.
3. TIMBROCK comes
in more sizes
than any other
hardboard.
4. TIMBROCK is
quality-tested for
resistance to heat
and moisture.
5. TIMBROCK is
fc*
timbrocK
a
frWm /^=
11 fe?
v
v
made by the most experienced manufacturer of
building materials in the Southern Hemisphere.
TIMBROC
the only hardboard that is 5 ways better
A product of the Building Materials Division of
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Makers of Tilebord, Pegbord, Opaltone
Interstate Offices: Sydney, Newcastle. Wagga, Wollongong,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
CSR234A
much to our economy, employ-
ment for many hundreds-of-
thousands of people directly
and indirectly in Australia.
It utilises huge areas of Aus-
tralia which would not be suit-
able for much other production
owing to limited water supplies,
a sheep drinks so much less
than a beast.
The sheepbreeders of Aus-
tralia have developed the ani-
mal that was imported to Aus-
tralia cutting 31b. or 41b. of
wool to one now cutting 101 b.
to 121 b. of high-yielding,
high - quality, soft - handling
wool, which price for price
has nothing to equal it in any
part of the world. We are
fortunate in having country
that suits the Merino so well,
and the breeders have devel-
oped types of Merinos to suit
the different districts.
The Australian clip is
approaching the five-million
bale mark, and all the wool,
with the exception of a carry-
over of 50,000 bales a year, is
sold every season.
The remarkable development
of the East, Japan’s great come-
back, the great interest of China
in our wool-market make it
appear that a great future still
lies before the Australian wool-
industry, provided the authori-
ties that control our costs
realise this and do not allow
our products to be priced out
of the world markets.
In Queensland, I would say
no industry has ploughed back
more than the grazing industry.
Wherever you go in the dry
areas you see huge tanks built
to water stock. In the better-
rainfall areas, especially the
brigalow-belt, the development
has to be seen to be believed.
Confidence has an impor-
tant bearing on the develop-
ment of the stud-breeding side
of the industry. If the returns
are sound, people will go on put-
ting money into the purchase
of stock and the development
of the country. But uneco-
nomic returns will put a brake
on progress at a time when we
are assured that there is a
market for all the woui we
can produce.
“watery” and could in no way
counterbalance handfeeding
(which should always be only
a quarter of the intake in feed,
unless a grazier can afford to
provide a higher ratio of hand-
feed to the lambing ewe).
Graziers around Gundagai
and in the nearby Riverina
largely adopted the March,
1959, joining. Last year they
were pleased with the result
of their August-September
spring lambs. Natural pastures
had dried-up after the winter
rain and had sweetened by
then, and it was easier for
graziers to look after their
sheep in the decent weather.
Percentages proved that March
was not too late to join the
ewes.
Graziers on the South-west
Slopes have still not fully
recognised the seriousness of
changing seasons, and often
fail to follow the “cycle” out-
lined for them. This year came
in as a drought of. such
severity that even spelled lands
have been practically useless
for some time, except as
“feeding-yards.”
Sometimes water gave-out
and many landholders were
obliged to drive their sheep
to the river daily to water
them. Strangely enough, the
water - shortage was most
apparent on riverlands like
Wantabadgery, on the Mur-
rumbidgee.
Many of the soldier-settler
graziers had lately put in large
dams, but the unexpected
drought prevented them from
gaining benefit; they are cer-
tainly aware of the need for
more dams and more wells.
Farmer-graziers waited for
the May rains to sow oat-
crops. Meanwhile chainsaws
were used to fell kurrajong-
trees for supplementary feed.
A mower is considered a
“must” for when there is
sufficient grass to cut later
in the year.
Under the stress of drought,
and despite the amount of
conserved fodder available,
the scene around Tumblong
has been appalling, with ewes
leaving their lambs wholesale.
There have been so many
dead lambs that many graziers
have to place them in bags
and bring them to a central
pit for burying or burning.
There have been many ewes
dying, too. It has even been
difficult for young sheep to
exist.
The Romney ewes and their
progeny have responded very
well to handfeeding of baled
lucerne-hay and oats and
follow the trucks around the
paddocks. Quite a few
Romney “dry” ' ewes are in
excellent condition, and where
there is even a leaf available
they will find it.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(19/5/’60)
Queensland should have good rains during June on the
coastal districts and central highlands, and On the Darling
Downs and part of the Maranoa, although rainfall may be
light elsewhere. Light rain, generally below normal, should
fall in July, with good falls in the same areas and about the
Warrego during August.
Most of N.S.W. should have good rains during June,
although falls may be poor in the far-western districts
and along the Darling. Rainfall should be heaviest on the
coastal districts and the Central Tablelands, the central-
western areas and part of the South-west Slopes, with
flooding in the central and southern divisions. Moderate
patchy rains are likely during July, with better falls during
August.
Victoria should have light to moderate rains during
June, but better falls are likely along the west coast and in
East Gippsland. There should be good rains during July,
though only light to moderate falls in August.
The agricultural areas of South Australia should have
moderate rains during June, but rainfall may be poor in the
interior. In July the agricultural areas should have better
falls, with moderate rain extending into the north interior.
In Western Australia good rains are likely about the
Fortescue during June, with moderate falls along the Gas-
coyne and in the agricultural areas. Best falls are probable
on the coast, between Geraldton and Bunbury.
LENNOX WALKER.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement of claims
Directors:
F. W. DUESBURY, Chairman; H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
ALFRED S. WHITE ; A. G. PARKER ; DOUGLAS WADLEY ; T. K. MAGNEY.
B. J. LANE, Manager.
’Phone: BU 7401. (Branches in all States) 16/20 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Towards Brisbane
Now, next, it’s Brisbane —the
rich Stradbroke-Cup double
(June 11 and 13); with a close
eye meanwhile needing to be
kept on anything in the way
of late good form; and no
doubt also with Queensland
owners thinking it’s about time
they got a cut* of the handout.
Going back through the past
six years, Grey Ghost, Wiggle,
Kingster, Knave, Plato and
Karendi all won the . Strad-
broke for visiting owners, while
going back through the same
period the horses trained away
from Brisbane that have got
off with the Cup have been
Macdougal, Timor, Cambridge
and Redcraze. Since the dis-
tance of the Stradbroke was
increased to seven furlongs in
1953 the fastest time for it is
the 1.23 j made by Grey Ghost
last June. Timor’s 3.20 9/10
for the two-mile Cup in 1958 is
best to date.
With Fine And Dandy
beaten in Brisbane last Satur-
day and In Love out of a
place at Randwick, connections
of other fancied horses for
the Q.T.C. Stradbroke have
some reason for taking a
keener interest in the sprint.
Up to Saturday that pair had
dominated the betting, with
Fine And Dandy at very brief
odds. They still could have
the biggest say in the finish,
particularly In Love, who
finished fifth in the S.T.C.
Civic Handicap behind Great
Blaze and carried the Welter
impost of 9.9 on a holding
track. Well handled by stable
apprentice H. Williams, Great
Blaze won in good style.
Real advantages in favor
of In Love in the Stradbroke
are that he drops to 8.12, and
as well the seven-furlongs
distance will suit him better.
In Love is a noted fast early-
morning track-galloper, and
prior to missing a place in the
Civic he had finished second
in three consecutive events,
two of them in the best com-
pany. He appears to have an
excellent chance of breaking
that run of ill-luck in big
races.
Maybe Fine And Dandy,
too, will apprecaite a few
pounds off his back: he drops
from last Saturday’s 9.1 to
8.8 in the Stradbroke. Given
a firm track he and In Love
look best for the big sprint.
Fine And Dandy, 6-to-4-on
favorite for Saturday’s Q.T.C.
“Yes, yes, buffalo and crocodile later, but I'll start
you off on teeny-weeny goannas."
Lightning Handicap, had out-
standing form compared with
that of the 100-to-l Toowoom-
baite Wallgar, who beat him
easily, with New Romance
third. Wallgar, eligible for
Encourage company before the
running of the Brisbane hurry-
scurry, carried 7.1, giving him
a 2st. pull on Fine And Dandy,
and it was a holding track.
* * *
Backers of Polo Prince,
favorite for the Lord Mayor’s
Cup at Randwick, were still
fairly confident after the
finish —from the official stand
it looked as if the Prince had
lasted long enough, and in
the small wagering on the
photo Compass was the out-
sider. However, after the
judge, Claude Martin, had
called for a couple of prints,
he gave the verdict to Com-
pass by a nose, which these
days can literally mean a
hair-lfhe. Honors of the race
were with Compass, because
he carried topweight 9.1 on a
holding track, but, being a
three-year-old, Polo Prince
also did well to handle his
8.6. Caybros (third) continued
his run of sound form. Tom
Hill rode a well-judged race
on the winner, while N. Sell-
wood gave the favorite every
chance. Polo Prince’s defeat
doesn’t lessen confidence in
his chance of racing well in
the Doomhen Cup in July.
There wasn’t much money
fpr the T. J. Smith-trained
Prince of Egypt, who had a
nice win in the Two-year-old
Handicap at Randwick (it was
a Sydney Turf Club meeting
transferred from Rosehill).
He’s by Emperor (Fr.) from
Light Lady (imp.) by Signal
Light from Merry Maid by
Son-In-Law, and is related to
Travesty and Desperado, good
winners in New Zealand in
past years. Light Lady also
threw Blue Rhapsody, a Rand-
wick winner.
Latest winner trained by
Fred Hood for H. C. and Mrs.
Davidson, Surprise Attack was
beautifully ridden by Selkrig
in landing the 12-furlongs
Novice. There should be more
such races; this one, at its
unusual distance, was a most
interesting contest, with a head-
and-head finish. Rimyll (an
unlucky galloper) was only
just beaten, with Precious Mist
third. Surprise Attack is a
big four-year-old gelding, and
present intentions are to send
the son of Derby-winner
Moorland to Melbourne to be
tried as a hurdler. Hood says
he can jump any handy fence,
either round his stables or when
sent to the country to spell.
Pay Lady, easy winner of
th e Three-and-four-year-old
Handicap, is partial to a track
affected by rain, as she had
shown in her three previous
wins. She’s to be sent to
Barramul Stud next year and
mated with Todman. Girvan
was not lucky in running, and
should soon score her first
Sydney win.
A huge plunge came off
when Chartwell, backed from
twelves to 9 to 4, landed the
Randwick Encourage; The
win was one of the most con-
vincing in a minor event for
months. Chartwell was in the
middle of the field at the half-
mile, eighth for home, then
came with a withering run on
the outside of the big field to
beat them pointless. He was
the class horse in the line-up,
but the performance was a
quick improvement in a week,
as at his prior outing he was
14th to Pride’s Castle in simi-
lar company at Randwick,
starting at 33 to 1. That was
his first run since November,
when he was in Melbourne and
finished third to Nilarco ; he
had also finished fourth in the
Victoria Derby to Travel Boy.
“Simon”: No doubt they’re
right about old Language
getting a bit long in the tooth,
but he certainly isn’t one of
the dead languages. The grand
old Talking-Beau Patrice bay
has now won his third Cowra
(N.S.W.) Picnic Club Cup,
bringing his total Cup victories
to fifteen! If anything, improv-
ing with age, Language was
allotted 12.4 for his latest Cup
win, but an apprentice-allow-
ance got it down4o 11.11, and
under that crusher he won by
four lengths!
* *
At Caulfield
This writer believes he saw
the Grand National Hurdle
winner at Caulfield—that was
Asprey, who won the Port
Phillip Hurdle (two miles).
Asprey has shown in the past
that distance does not bother


Start the day right!
RS*
.»*«•»**
• HO*"
LM
him, and on Saturday he chal-
lenged for the lead at the last
jump, and ran home very
strongly to win as he liked,
jtsprey is-out of Lady’s Bag
by Great Britain (who won the
Victoria Derby in 1942). It’s
an interesting sidelight of the
jumping scene in Melbourne
this year that so many promin-
ent National candidates are by
or out of classic winners. Regal
Copy (by Carbon Copy, win-
ner of the A.J.C. Derby in
1948) looks a definite National-
Hurdle hope. Two horses
prominent in National Steeple
discussions are Tranquil Glow,
whose dam, Tranquil Star,
included a V.R.C. St. Leger in
her many successes, and Grand
Reward, whose sire, Hororata,
won the Caulfield Guineas in
1947. Asprey carried only
9.10 in his Port Phillip success,
but he’s capable of winning
with much more weight, and
he’s a very good “first leg” for
those who like to have a stab
at the National double.
• • • •
The logical “second leg” is
Grand Reward, trained by
Alec Fullarton, who is having
such an extraordinary run of
success; he has now pre-
pared seven steeplechase win-
ners in a row! Fullarton,
incidentally, rode the winner of
the first King’s Cup run in
Australia, when he got Spear
Maiden home at Flemington in
1927; later he was an out-
standing jumping rider. Like
Asprey, Grand Reward is a
six - year - old gelding. He
scored his first steeple success
at Caulfield a couple of weeks
ago, and improved on that run
to win the F. E. Shillabeer
Steeple at his ease on Satur-
day.
• • • •
The two divisions of the
Ovens Handicap (two-year-old
colts and geldings ; seven fur-
longs) were won by youngsters
likely to win better races next
spring. Cascade, who won the
first heat, is a chestnut gelding
by Fountain from Ternina by
Titan from Grand Warbler by
Grand Jury. The other likely
one, Wallingford (a son of
True Course), was most impres-
sive. Always well placed, he
shot clear at the home-turn
and gave nothing else a chance.
A chestnut gelding by Chavey
Down, he could be one right
out of the box.
• • •
Another of whom more will
be heard, the three-year-old
N.Z. - bred gelding Olive
Branch (by Rising Fast’s sire,
Alonzo), put-up a grand per-
formance to defeat a big field
in the mile Southern Stakes.
If he goes to Brisbane he will
warrant support in whatever
races he tackles. Looking
further ahead, he could play
a prominent part in the spring
Cups.
• • • •
The going at Caulfield was
the best Melbourne horses
have enjoyed since the begin-
ning of April, and no galloper
appreciated it more than Mac,
after lumping heavy weights
through the mud. Mac has
had a bewildering number of
riders during his career, and
on Saturday cross-country
jockey R. Kitchen had the
mount, and handled him par-
ticularly well in winning the
Goulburn Handicap.
• • • •
Entries for the Centenary
Melbourne Cup (at £5 apiece)
close at 4 p.m. on June 7.
It will be surprising if the
prizemoney of £25,000, plus a
gold cup valued at £5OO, does
not attract a record entry.
* * *
The Trots
They’re a hardy race,
punters! Badly away at
Harold Park the previous week,
lllawarra Ayr still started
favorite in last Friday night’s
Handicap. He galloped off
the mark, refused to pace
till he had lost all chance, and
finished a bad last. Thereupon
stewards once more banned
him —for the fourth time!
Doyen, who’s been up for sale,
with no takers, for the past 12
months, landed the race (at 25
to 1) from Firmament and
Nobby. Oddest thing about
the no takers for Doyen is that
while he’s been on offer he has
won three races in good com-
pany. Next Friday night it’s
the N.S.W. Oaks, after which
there’ll be a break at the Park
until August 12.
* * *
Other Sports
“Nabru”: Mention of Wag-
staffe’s 1920 League team by
“Furban” (B. 25/5/’6O) re-
calls the first Test of the series
played at the Brisbane Exhibi-
tion Ground. After that torrid
affair, I saw the hero of the
famous 1914 “Rorke’s Drift”
making his way to the dressing-
rooms. He sported a “shiner”
equal to the best on show out-
side Rushcutter Bay. Blood,
mingling with a grassy-grime,
covered a much scratched face.
An ugly bruise showed through
large rips on his third jersey
for the match. He was sweat
from hair to boots. At the top
of the steps he was stopped by
a woman from Yorkshire.
“Aar, ’Arold! What have they
done to ye?” The big centre-
three-quarter hid his deep dis-
appointment over the game.
As his studs beat an impatient
tattoo on the concrete, he
replied, “Tut, woman. It was
football. That is a man’s
game.” Time can’t blot my
memory of that great captain
as he panted his way down to
the showers.
• • • «
At the Sydney Cricket
Ground the Sydney Rugby
Leaguers beat the visiting
French somewhat easier than
the 23-17 score would suggest.
Gasnier continues to shape as
one of the very best centre-
threequarters the game here
has ever had, and it’s had a
few good ones.
* * *
“E. 13”: Surprise of the
fifth V.F.L. round was St.
Kilda’s defeat of the strong
Collingwood team, which a
week earlier had downed last
year’s premiers, Melbourne, by
six goals. St. Kilda had previ-
ously landed only one game
this year. It was a round of
surprises, including Fitzroy’s
defeat of up-and-coming Foots-
cray, and Richmond—hitherto
very unimpressive—winning
easily from South Melbourne.
Norths played improved foot-
ball in beating Geelong, Essen-
don maintained its unbeaten
run by trouncing Carlton, and
of course Melbourne had no
trouble disposing of Hawthorn.
The Dons, however, came to
the end of the run in last Satur-
day’s round, in a tight game
with Fitzroy, 55-50. South
Melbourne v. Collingwood was
even closer, Souths getting
there by 80-78. Melbourne
walloped Richmond, 124-32;
Saints beat Footscray, 65-47;
Hawthorn was too good for
Norths, 62-48; and Geelong,
17.17 (119) trounced Carlton,
10.14 (74).
• • •
“Judee”: Kevin Allen, North
Shore (Sydney) Aussie Rules
player, seems to have set two
records: he has played in 500
first- and second-grade matches,
and has never been injured in
any. As long ago as 1942 he
appeared in games with four
clubs in Western Australia.
Since coming to Sydney this is
his tally: With St. George, 30;
Balmain, 30; Sydney-Naval, 40;
Eastern Suburbs, 60; Western
Suburbs, 29; North Shore (and
still going strong), 106. Kevin
is secretary of North Shore
Australian Rules Club and vice-
captain of the reserve-grade
team.
* * *
“Rugger”: Maori Bill Gray,
playing for North Sydney in
the Rugby Union comp., is
such a smooth player that in
his initial appearance here he
was an outstanding centre. He
played in the N.Z. trials used
to find the All Blacks team
for South Africa, but apartheid
ruled him out for that tour.
* * *
“Golfer”: Figures would
make you think that American
golfers who win pro.-controlled
sponsored tournaments are
super-golfers. They’re not.
The courses on the circuit are
short, with wide fairways and
almost no hazards, and with
huge greens. U.S. critics call
them “drive and wedge”
courses. It’s different altogether
on the real courses under U.S.
Golf Association control. You
don’t see U.S, pros, in the
British Open these days, and
when they come to Australia
they have to battle hard. In
fact, Sam Snead thinks our
courses are “lousy” . . . too
hard to play.
* * *
“Lai”: Victoria’s young
champion walker Noel Free-
man, of Footscray, went a step
closer to Olympic selection by
winning the Victorian 10,000-
title at the University Oval.
Second was veteran Ted All-
sopp, and third Norm Reid, of
N.Z., who won the 50-kilo-
metre walk at the 1956 Olym-
pics in Melbourne. Freeman’s
time of 43min. 4lf sec. was
three seconds outside the Vic-
torian and Australian records,
but his 34min. 57sec. smashed
the five-mile record by six
seconds.


CARRY THE
BURDEN
mm
Establiihed 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE SPY PLANE
Qome samples out of the mass
of press comment on the
U-2 spy-plane incident:
London “Time and Tide”:
“We think the Russians are
entitled to resent this kind of
aerial invasion. If Russian
intelligence-planes flew over
Britain from bases at Boulogne
and Calais we [Britain] should
do everything we could to stop
them. The claim by Washing-
ton of the right to fly over
Russia by stealth on the ground
that she will not agree to the
American ‘open-sky’ proposals
is dangerous sophistry. Mr.
Macmillan' has expressed
British feeling by saying that
we shall not fly over Russia
and have never done so (though
we have trespassed on satellite
air).
“We think Russia is en-
titled to complain if such
flights take-off from neighbor-
ing countries. Mr. Khrushchev
has made characteristic bully-
ing threats to Pakistan and
Turkey, but a really dangerous
element, reminiscent of the
start of past wars, is Mr.
Her t e r’s declaration that
America will come to the rescue
of small countries which Russia
might attack for having
launched spy-planes over her.
Russia herself cannot argue
from a position of morality.
Her spying organisation and
her record of corruption in
foreign countries are notorious.
But now she has the law on
her side, and can convince all
the uncommitted nations of the
perfidy of the Western nations.”
* * *
London “Observer”: “It is
no doubt true, as the Ameri-
can Government says, that all
nations do this kind of thing if
they can ; but it was the Ameri-
cans who got caught. The
incident must strengthen Mr.
Khrushchev’s suspicions, ex-
pressed in an earlier speech
in Baku, that ‘certain ruling
circles’ in America are deter-
mined to sabotage President
Eisenhower’s efforts for a
detente. The President’s first
duty will now be to remove this
impression.
“But none of this justifies
the violence of Mr. Khrush-
chev’s action or of his words.
Either he is still grossly mis-
informed about the Western
and particularly the American
political temperament, or he is
having to deal with consider-
able internal pressure from
opponents of his foreign policy.
He may have his own enemies
of detente —advocates of a
tougher line who fear such
experiments as accepting con-
trol and inspection.”,
* * *
London “Spectator”: “The
flight which has been so in-
dignantly denounced—in quar-
ters where the names of Fuchs,
Nunn May and Greenglass
have apparently not yet
penetrated was part of a
defence-programme designed to
ensure that the West is as well
prepared as can be against any
form of surprise attack by the
Soviet Union. There was no
necessity for the flight to be
authorised by President Eisen-
hower, let alone approved by
America’s allies, any more than
any other individual action in
a series which is part of a'
defence - programme approved
in general. And it will be a
sorry day for the West when
individual authorisation be
comes necessary for such
actions.
“Moreover, Mr. Khrush-
chev’s indignation at the
incident was hypocritical, bis
surprise synthetic and his
claims mendacious, and if the
incident causes any long-term
deterioration in East-West rela-
tions it will be because Mr
Khrushchev had decided upon
such a deterioration, and seized
on the U-2 incident —which was
certainly not his first intima-
tion that such flights were
taking place— to implement it.
“It was unfortunate only
that the pilot of the U-2 was
caught: unfortunate, that is,
in exactly the same sense as
the loss of ground in a battle
is unfortunate. (Though even
against this we can set the
exposure of the deficiency in
the Soviet defence - system
demonstrated by the aero-
plane’s penetration 1500 miles
into Soviet territory before it
was shot down—if, indeed, it
was shot down at all.)
“The one point on which the
American Government can
arguably be faulted is in its
failure to order the suspension
of such flights immediately
before the Summit.”
* * *
Walter Lippmann, in New
York “Herald Tribune”: “All
this is not a pretty business,
and there is no way of prettify-
ing it or transforming it into
something highly moral and
wonderful. The cardinal rule,
which makes spying tolerable
in international relations, is
that it is never avowed. For
that reason it is never defended,
and therefore the aggrieved
country makes only as much of
a fuss about a particular inci-
dent as it can make or as it
chooses to make.
“We [the U.S.] should have
abided’ by that rule. When
Mr. K. made his first announce-
ment about the plane, no lies
should have been told. The
Administration should have
said that it was investigating
the charge and would then take
suitable action. We should
then have maintained a cool
silence.”
* * *
London “Economist": “The
American counter to Mr.
Khrushchev’s charges against
foreign bases has been to
revert to the idea of Mr. Eisen-
hower’s ‘open skies’ proposal
at the Geneva Summit in 1955.
The moral basis for this may
now look shakier than it did
[some weeks ago], but the
scientific argument is becom-
ing increasingly convincing.
“The rapid development of
aerial-photography techniques,
to which American research has
been giving much attention, is
reaching the point where the
Russian aversion to disarma-
ment inspection—w hi c h Mr.
Khrushchev prefers to call
licensed espionage—could be-
come as antiquated as the U-2
aircraft itself beside the Samos
reconnaissance satellite. The
United States has already got
surprising, if unintentional,
photographic results from its
last earth-satellite; and there
was no Russian protest.
“For Mr. Khrushchev to in-
sist on the inviolability of his
air space will grow increasingly
difficult with time: after all, he
has his own satellites girdling
the,, earth over everybody’s
heads. Ultimately, the Powers
will have to choose between
shooting down every meteoro-
logical device, if they can, and
living with the idea of being
inspected.”
Kremlin Power Shifts
T ondon “Economist” notes
~ L '' that it would be .wrong
to treat Premier Khrushchev’s
handling of the U-2 affair “and
its consequences for foreign
policy” in isolation.
The week in which Khrush-
chev announced the capture of
the U.S. plane “also witnessed
a major reshuffle in the leader-
ship, while the Supreme Soviet


Fatffi in i/ic
Fnlurc
It is good to see Australia marking up the
one-and-a-half million in arrivals in its post-war
programme of immigration.
The inflow of migrant strength in the past
fifteen years has been a powerful tributary to the
stream of our national progress. It will have an
even greater effect on our rate of advancement in
the future.
Successful immigration, however, means more
than the establishment of an imposing statistical
figure. Its real worth is in the human enrichment
it brings to a country which for many years will
be needing all the character and brains and skills
it is capable of producing or attracting.
The true value of our migrant gain can be
cited in countless examples—such as employment
of many British and European scientists, laboratory
workers and technical assistants in the C.5.1.R.0.,
and in industry generally; or in the fact that
two-thirds of the labour force on the Snowy River
project are migrant workers.
We can take it down to a particular case: the
selection of a young Italian-born student, Sergio
Giudici, as the Tasmanian Rhodes Scholar for 1960.
The central point in all this is that we who are
native-born have a duty to welcome and encourage
our migrant citizens. We are Australians by
fortunate chance. They have made a positive
declaration of faith in this country by becoming
Australians of choice.
The best type* of migrant—however gifted,
however willing can be frustrated, and his
talents may be lost, unless he is heartened to
his opportunities.
In obverse proof of that, let us look again
at the story of the Italian boy in Tasmania. He
could not speak English when he came to Australia
with his parents in 1948.
Helped in the language by his teachers and
his schoolmates, he was soon leading his class—
and on the way to that scholastic career which later
this year will take him to Oxford to continue his
studies in civil engineering.
// 9 e
e<2^c^
y
itself endorsed important
economic measures which show
that, in home affairs at least,
there is continuity in Russian
policy.”
The economic measures are
the proposed reduction of the
Russian working-week, pro-
gressive abolition of income-
tax and the revaluation of the
rouble. As for the reshuffle in
the leadership:
“The session ended with
the resignation of Marshal
Voroshilov from the Presi-
dency of the Soviet Union.
Klim, as he was popularly
called, a veteran of the civil
war, was one of the last figures
of the Stalinist old-guard. At
79, his retirement is natural,
yet rumor has it that it is not
unconnected with his lack of
support for Mr. Khrushchev
in the crisis of 1957. In any
case, the President is rather a
figurehead in the Soviet leader-
ship.
“The successor, Leonid I.
Brezhnev, is a metallurgist by
profession who reached the
top through various party jobs
in the provinces (he worked
with Mr. Khrushchev in the
Ukraine). Twenty-five years
younger than Marshal Voro-
shilov, he should stand-up
better to Mr. Khrushchev’s
travelling diplomacy.
“Bigger changes in both
party and Government were
revealed by the central com-
mittee on the eve of the Parlia-
mentary session. The main
beneficiary seems to be Mr.
Kosygin, who moves up to
full membership of the party
presidium and also becomes
First Deputy Prime Minister.
“Aleksiey N. Kosygin was
born in 1904 in St. Petersburg.
A specialist in textiles and light
industry in general, he had
a long Ministerial experience
in Stalin’s time. Temporarily
down-graded in the party
hierarchy at the beginning of
the new regime, he has made
a steady comeback* Last year
he became chief Soviet planner
(he leaves his post iq the Gos-
plan to Mr. Novikov), and
should now be Mr. Khrush-
chev’s main assistant in the
Government in economic
matters, with Mr. Mikoyan
concentrating more on foreign
affairs.
“The two other new full
members of the presidium are
Nikolai V. Podgorny, head of
the party in the Ukraine, and
Dimitri S. Polyansky, who, at
43, belongs to the youngest
generation in the Soviet
leadership.
“These were not the only
promotions. The dismissal of
N. I. Byelayev and A. I. Kiri-
chenko was no surprise, since
their disgrace was known. But
other people have now been
removed from key-posts in the
party secretariat: A. B. Aristov
and P. N. Pospelov to deal
with Russian affairs; N. G.
Ignatov to a Vice-Premiership,
and Ekaterina Furtseva, the
only woman in the top leader-
ship, to the Ministry of Cul-
ture. Frol R. Kozlov has left
his job in the Government to
Mr. Kosygin, but has joined
the party secretariat. This
body is now apparently
reduced to five and, next to
Mr. Khrushchev, Mr. Kozlov
and Mr. Suslov may be its
most influential members.
“Several changes have also
taken place recently in the
military command. Marshal
Zakharov has succeeded Mar-
shal Sokolovsky as chief of
general staff. Marshal Chuikov
has been relieved of the com-
mand of the Kiev region.
Further moves are expecte4 as
a result of the reduction and
reorganisation of the armed
forces. There are rumors that
Marshal Koniev, commander
of the Warsaw Pact, may go.
Finally, Mr. Khrushchev dis-
closed that a special command
for missiles had been created,
headed by the marshal of
artillery, I. Nedelin.
“It is possible to argue from
all these moves that Mr.
Khrushchev is now reshuffling
at leisure the pack he had to
bring together in a hurry after
the defeat of the ‘anti-party’
group. There are, however,
signs that his foreign and
military polices are meeting
with opposition.
“In his own version of the
American spy-plane incident
he mentioned that another
American aircraft had flown
over Soviet territory last month
[April] and that it was on his
own intervention that his
Government decided not to
make a fuss about it.
“Is his present, display of
anger partly the result of hints
of dissatisfaction with his
policy from some of his col-
leagues?
“The incident with the U-2
aircraft allowed Mr. Khrush-
chev to achieve many things
with one stroke. At home he
could steal the thunder of his
critics, show-off the rockets as
the main Soviet weapon, and
listen to praise from as far
off as Peking. Abroad he not
only scored a point in propa-
ganda. He could now revive
the issue of foreign bases, ram
home the urgency of dis-
armament, and set about con-
vincing the Western leaders, that
he is in earnest about Berlin.”


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
New Zealand Attitudes
J. M. Thomson’s comments
on David Ausubel's The Fern
and the Tiki (B. 4/5/’6O) pro-
vide an interesting extension
of my own review of the book.
Perhaps if I extend on his ex-
tension it may clarify matters.
I shall take as my text
J.M.T.’s own words that under
State Welfare N.Z. has become
“a comfortable club whose
membership rules are not too
high.”
There are, however, some
very strict rules. For instance,
one must vote for the political
party promising the most
money. If it is a straight-out
bribe of £lOO a head, all the
better.
Another rule is that the well-
protected manufacturer must
in many cases produce a poor
article (speedy replacement;
higher dividends). And the
worker not self-employed must
do the least amount of work
for the highest wages his union
can get for him, thereby
eliminating the dangers of un-
employment.
In spite of what Ausubel says
there is little or no color-bar
in our club, and the ample
leisure-lucre aspect appeals to
such an extent to the still-
primitive mind of many
Maoris that it was recently re-
vealed that half the population
of one of our largest jails is
Maori.
Ausubel passed or slurred
over these aspects of our Wel-
fare club; he seemed more con-
cerned with his own private
hates, one of which, mentioned
and approved of by J.M.T., is
that we still use the strap in
our homes and schools. Pre-
sumably we should establish a
junior Welfare club with a
comfortable non-strap appeal.
We might even abolish police
and punishment for all adult
members.
What we need in N.Z. is an
Ausubel of our own, one un-
fettered by prejudice, with a
regard for the past as well as
for the future. Meanwhile
the club goes ' on. The poli-
ticians have drawn the blinds,
and many of us do not realise
that outside the wind is rising.
—Pat Lawlor (N.Z.).
Rationed Education
Controversy over examina-
tion-standards operating at the
University of Melbourne —this
time centred on the Faculty of
Law—has again focused atten-
tion on certain disturbing
features of our system of higher
education.
For present and intending
law-students the situation is
serious; so much so that one
prominent lawyer (Sir Norman
O’Bryan) has suggested that if
University facilities are in-
adequate the Law Institute
should consider entering the
teaching-field and issuing cer-
tificates of qualification.
But much the same position
exists in other faculties —in
short, university education is
no longer available to all who
are willing and qualified to take
it.
Rationing has become an
accepted prac t i c e —far too
readily accepted, in my view,
by those responsible for run-
ning our universities.
First, university - authorities
have imposed entrance-quotas
for most faculties. This means
that matriculation is no longer
a sufficient qualification for
entrance, and that, for all ex-
cept the academically brilliant,
admittance to a faculty will
depend largely upon the num-
bers applying.
So far as I am aware no one
has tested the legality of the
quota-system; but it seems un-
fair, if not illegal, for a univer-
sity to refuse enrolment to any
qualified student who can pay
his fees.
To my mind university-
authorities have been short-
sighted in even, considering
entrance - quotas. Had they
taken a firm stand, on principle,
when quotas were initially pro-
posed, the money would have
been found for extension of
buildings and staff, just as it
has been found to build and
equip hundreds of schools since
1945.
Furthermore, students can
no longer count on being
allowed to complete a course.
In some faculties failure in
first- or second-year debars a
student from continuing; in
others students who have
passed have been excluded
from the next year of the
course through pressure of
numbers.
In trying to cut their suit
according to their available
cloth universities have ren-
dered a disservice to higher
education. In war-time ration-
ing was accepted as unavoid-
able; in times of peace and
prosperity rationing of educa-
tion is neither necessary nor
beneficial. — Wusslean (Vic.).
“If The Gown Fits”
“M.H.E.” in his review of
If The Gown Fits, A. P. Rowe’s
book about his experience as
Vice - Chancellor of Adelaide
University, says the book is
not the tirade of a disappointed
man.
Probably not; but Rowe
nevertheless shows in his
writings that throughout his
stay in this country he carried
a pretty hefty chip on his
shoulder. The incidence of
time, red-tape and opportunism
soon after his arrival in Aus-
tralia combined to make an
impact which obviously deeply
creased his academic soul.
A. P. Rowe worked during
the war in the cloistered atmo-
sphere of a Malvern (England)
college as a backroom radar
“boy.” The end-of-war deci-
sion to continue long-range
weapon research found him
heading a team of four scien-
tific bods, one artillery half-


colonel and an R.E. major,
all being part of the British
Ministry of Supply’s mission in
Australia under General Evetts.
Rowe arrived in 1946 ahead
of his colleagues and spent the
first few months flat-hunting
for them. Their general
mission was to establish a base
and a launching-site for missiles
that began where the German
V 2 finished.
The fact that none of the
group had much knowledge or
field-experience of long-range
rocketry and liquid fuels was
of little significance. The
novelty of occupying modern
office-buildings and laboratories
at Salisbury (S.A.) with the lure
of “dead heart” exploration
for launching-sites overcame
any diffidence towards the
major problems.
The Disposals Branch, know-
ing nothing of the proposals,
proceeded to clear the Salis-
bury buildings for occupation
by private commercial and
industrial firms. This upset
Rowe, and his comments were
bitter. It is on record that two
of his staff returned from lunch
to find their rooms bare and
the furniture well on the way to
city auction-rooms.
The Department of Muni-
tions’ attitude was one of in-
difference, since it, in common
with the British team, did, not
know precise details of the
proposed establishment. Rowe,
as chief superintendent, had a
torrid time settling in, and
there were frequent clashes
with supply and construction
authorities. The team had not
had much contact with Aus-
tralians, and at times its
approach savored of colonial
condescension.
Rowe was further disturbed
when a subordinate colleague
resigned and accepted another
position which, in final effect,
made him Rowe’s superior.
This event appeared to be the
culminating affront, and shortly
afterwards he accepted the
position of Vice-Chancellor at
Adelaide University. His
acceptance of this position sur-
prised his intimate colleagues,
as he had no previous record
of service in university admini-
stration.
At this time Adelaide was
staffed with revered professors,
readers and lecturers; names
of world repute graced the
various faculties; the output
was high and of good material.
Then came the “free-for-all”
period.
Hordes of ex-service scholar-
ship-holders overtaxed accom-
modation, Many were mature
men with domestic responsi-
bilities. The teaching-staff was
inadequate, and sentiment kept-
on many a fresher who should
have been ploughed after his
first term. Discipline became
lax. There were unseemly in-
“Can you lend me y'r specs ?”
cidents and an initiation
tragedy. P 1 ayfo r d, whose
general idea on education seems
to be that, except in very special
cases, it should all finish at the
age of 13, was not co-operative.
A. P. Rowe has submitted a
thesis of university life collated
during a bitterly disturbed and
troublesome era. He expects
it to be read as a record of a
decade of normal academic
progress in Australia. But he
cannot disguise the troubled
spirit which has inspired much
of his book.—S.C.F. (S.A.).
Wallace Wurth
My thanks to John D.
Archer (B. 18/5/ ’6O) for point-
ing out that it was “J.D.” and
not “George” Fitzgerald with
whom Wallace Wurth was
associated in his early days.
This is quite right. Nor can I
blame the typist for the “a”
instead of the “e” in the name
McGowen, as I saw the proofs.
However, on the question of
Wallace Wurth acting in a
secretarial capacity to Mc-
Gowen, I must stick to my
guns. He was all of 17 when
his rare stenographic skills
brought him into these casual
secretarial jobs and into touch
with the personalities men-
tioned. Actually he had more
to do with McGowen after his
Premiership—when, under Hol-
man, he was for a time in
charge of the incipient Depart-
ment of Labor and Industry.
—Observer (N.S.W.).
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 593
Across
I—Rigging1—Rigging the outcome of the last Federal election? (8)
s—But5 —But it’s not a way of acquiring revenue from mis-
behaviour. (6)
8— Drink stirred in the basin. (8)
9 Part of the fork in New Guinea’s favor. (5).
12— This makes some dope give a gentlemanly
Shakespearean address to 50. (7)
13— Panelling parent to duck. (4)
14 —Silver hair is to be cut! (3)
17—Fastened a fortissimo nine to
the editor. (7)
19— Just the region for nothing but
the best oxygen. (5)
20 — It’s done by dancers, none
having taste. (5)
21 — Is backing chaps with the leg-
side mystery writer. (7)
22 Your French weight is not
back. (3)
23 Misses contradicted this irregu-
larity. (4)
24 Seaman interrupting an Italo-
French composer with a sleep-
inducer. (7)
28 — Councillor with nothing on is
to behave like Crosby. (5)
29 See a vessel in a musical
number. (8)
30 — Used to be a boy frittered
away. (6)
31 — The dying sailor may come to
this champion speedster. (8)
Down
1 and 2—Round of a country cop,
but don't be explicit. (4, 5,3, 4)
3 A novice bid for a contract to
measure. (10)
4 Why take one who ignorantly
is an oaf? (5)
6 Anecdote loading for the
loom? (4)
7 Equal sunburn thanks high
ground. (10)
10 — Vehicle gave hides the treatment
necessary to produce leather. (6)
11— It’s much more skyscraping that
one of 15-down. (8, 4)
15 — Goes electioneering with Mrs.
Barton’s muddle. (10)
16 — An Italian lady. bankrupt seen
around a mountain near War-
burton. (10)
18 —Apoplexy’s Tuscan is too long
for a covered portico for exer-
cising athletes. (6)
25 — Rent as in the sheltered side. (5)
26 — Poet affected by booze. (4)
27 — Tower address is swallowed by
father. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 592


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks, with
their house-guest Sir Malcolm Sargent,
were guests at the Commonwealth Day
luncheon held in the Victoria League
clubrooms. The decorations included a
White Ensign, and green hydrangeas,
poinsettias and autumn-tone flowers;
over the entrances to the reception-room
Union Jacks were draped. Guests were
received by the chairman and senior
vice-president, Mrs. Guy Bakewell, with
vice-presidents Mrs. Frank May and
Mrs. Robert Hamilton. The Premier and
Mrs. Bolte were present, and the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress. Lady-
Brooks chose a slim-fitting frock of teal-
blue wool, the skirt draped to one side,
and a small scalloped cap finished with
fan pleats in deep-blue silk. A sage-green
tweed suit was chosen by Mrs. Bolte,
trimmed with matching satin on the
collar ; her toque was in the same soft
shade. A relaxed-line suit of black silk-
shantung was worn by the Lady
Mayoress with a white feather-toque
misted in chenille-spotted black veiling.
Mrs. Mercy Koruth (Secretary-General
of Malayan Red Cross), Lady Herring,
Air-Vice-Marshal A. L. Walters and Mrs.
Walters (her Foreign Legion cap of
scarlet velvet worn with a black suit),
Sir Clifden and Lady Eager, Archbishop
Woods, U.K. Trade Commissioner H. F.
Stephens and Mrs. Stephens, and Mrs.'
C. Helier Evans were also at the
luncheon.
☆ ☆ ☆
Wives of inter-State and overseas dele-
gates attending the annual meeting of
the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians were guests of the Victorian
women’s entertainment committee for
morning tea at the Australia, when they
were welcomed by the president of the
Victorian women’s entertainment com-
mittee, Lady Johnston, assisted by Mrs.
W. E. King. Lady Johnston’s woollen
dress and jacket was in blue, grey and
white checks, and her feather-trimmed
felt toque in powder-blue. Mrs. King’s
choice was a suit of beige corded wool
and an off-the-face cloche of pale-beige
velvet trimmed with brown fur. Among
the guests were Mrs. P. Pitkanok
(Thailand), Mrs. Smarn Muntarbhorn
(Bangkok), Lady Murphy (Brisbane),
Mrs. K. B. Noad, Mrs. Bruce Smith,
Mrs. J. C. English, and Mrs. J. Belisario
(all of N.S.W.), Mrs. M. K. Gray, Mrs.
J. A. Kneeling, Mrs. M. H. Watson, and
Mrs. J. D. Willis (all of N.Z.), Mrs. John
Covernton,-Mrs. G. L. Bennett, Mrs. F.
Boyd Turner, Mrs. J. G. Wilson and
Mrs. W. M. Irwin (all of S.A.), and Mrs.
J. G. Hislop (W.A.).
☆ ☆ ☆
Over a cup of tea, U.S. Ambassador
W. J. Sebald chatted to members of the
English Speaking Union at a reception
given in his honor at the clubrooms in
South Yarra. Over 70 guests were wel-
comed by Lady Dixon, who deputised
for her husband, Sir Owen Dixon, who
is chairman of the E.S.U. She chose a
woollen frock in a shade of soft-blue and
a velvet toque in pigeon-grey tonings
finished with a matching velvet rose in
front. U.S. Consul W. Ryan was accom-
panied by his wife, who wore a sky-blue
curvette with a black silk-faille suit. Other
guests were Lady Lowe and her daughter
Mrs. W. J. Wark, Mrs. William Banks
(attractive in a lipstick-pink coat and a
bow-trimmed fascinator), Sir Samuel and
Lady Wadham, Mrs. R. Sholl, Sir Kings-
ley and Lady Norris, Canadian Com-
mercial Counsellor T. Grant Major and
his wife and N.Z. Trade Commissioner
A. C. Davys and Mrs. Davys.
English-born Ann Carlisle Taylor will
make her debut at the Tittle Theatre
when she takes the role of Cuckoo Honey
in “South Sea Bubble,” which opens on
June 9. As chairman of the British
Women’s Dramatic Club in Bombay,
where she lived for some years, Mrs.
Taylor (now resident in this city ) pro-
duced and appeared in many productions
for charity. After spending her early
years in Italy and her teens in England,
Mrs. Taylor was living in India up to
the time of her husband’s transfer to
Melbourne five years ago. She is a mem-
ber of Mrs. Henry Bolte’s committee
working for the Royal Children’s Hospi-
tal Building Fund. George Fairfax is
producing “South Sea Bubble,” and a
performance on June 10 will aid the
funds of the Spastic Children’s Society
of Victoria. Photo by Dickinson-Mon-
teath.
At a cocktail-party held at the Toorak
home of Mrs. C. Trevaskis a cheque for
£lBOO was handed to the president of the
Helping Hand Association, Mr. Frank
Byrne, by Mrs. J. Alston, who heads the
Robin Hood committee which works for
this excellent cause. At present overseas,
Mrs. Trevaskis was represented by her
daughter, Mrs. R. W. Bryant. Among
official-guests were Dr. Eric Cunningham
Dax and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Byrne, Mr. and Mrs. S. McDermott,
Mrs. Joan Finlayson, Miss Maureen
Stewart and Mr. and Mrs. Frank Walsh.
Members of the committee who were
present were Joan Sutherland Smith,
Phyllis Connor, Joan Park, Anne Swal-
low, Francine Abry, Mrs. Graeme Laws,
Mrs. W. Dobinson, Mrs. Max Davis and
Mrs. Eric Fullarton. Fred Asmussen, who
always does the decorations for the R.H.
committee, and hon. treasurer John Yule
were also present.
At the party it was announced that
since late in 1954 the Robin Hood com-
mittee has handed over to the Helping
Hand Association (which works for
mentally-retarded children) £BOOO. This
year the committee is making a special
effort for the building of a residential
emergency-ward on an existing Govern-
ment institution for all children in day-
centres in Victoria. This will cost
£15,000; on June 15 in the Lower Town
Hall there will be mannequin-parades
afternoon and evening and prizes for the
lucky entree-card (these will cost 10s. 6d.).
This is the first of many functions
planned to raise money for this objective.
☆ ☆
“Dance on Top of the Mark” has been
chosen as this year’s theme for the annual
American Ball to be held under the
auspices of the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Royal Children’s Hos-
pital at St. Kilda Palais on July 8. The
ball’will feature San Francisco, and takes
its title from , the famous cocktail-lounge
which is located on the top floor of the
Mark Hopkins Hotel, high up on Nob
Hill overlooking the harbor. Proceeds
will assist the hospital’s building appeal.
Patrons are the Governor and Lady
Brooks (they will not be present, for they
are off on holiday to the U.K. on June
14) and U.S. Ambassador W. J. Sebald
and Mrs. Sebald. Ticket-chairman is
Mrs. H. A. Gilkeson (WL 8583), and
assisting her is Mrs. L. Reedy (857-7161).
Tickets are £2 10s. each.
☆ ☆ v ☆
Luncheons held at intervals by the
Australian-Asian Association have been
so successful that in future they will be-
come a monthly event. This was
announced by president Sir Charles Lowe
at the luncheon held at the Victoria,
when Denis Warner was guest-speaker.
The banquet-room was gay with urns of
yellow pokers, poinsettias, chrysanthe-
mums and autumn-leaves, while the
official table held a large centrepiece of
pink nerines, carnations and mignonette.
Luncheoneers included Lady Lowe, hon.
secretary Norman Rosepthal and Mrs.
Rosenthal, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. C. Carlisle
Taylor, Professor and Mrs. Matheson,
Sir Samuel and Lady Wadham, Mr. Peter


Lee, Mrs. E. Sinclair, Mrs. John Dynon
and her mother, Mrs. Percy Shelton, Thai
Consul H. I. Fader and Mrs. Fader, Mrs.
Dale Holyman, Lady Dunstan, Mrs.
Arnold Isaacson and Dr. Stella Braith-
waite.
SYDNEY
Commonwealth Day brought rain, fog
and bonfire-smoke ; flags displayed and
red-coated bandsmen in Martin Place,
where the High Commissioner for
Malaya made an inspiring speech ; a
formal luncheon arranged by the Council
of Commonwealth Societies at the Aus-
tralia ; and the sparking of thousands of
crackers, rockets, catherine-wheels and
the like in practically every home where
there are children.
At the luncheon all was ceremony and
exactness. The Governor and Lady
Woodward were present and the Arch-
bishop of Sydney, Dr. Gough, said grace.
Mrs, H. B. Farncomb, president of the
Victoria League, was in the chair and
proposed the toast of the Queen, and the
High Commissioner for Ceylon, Mr.
B. F. Perera, spoke of “The Day We
Celebrate,” stressing above all the need
for unity among Commonwealth coun-
tries. There were about 300 at the
luncheon, most of whom had come on
from the ceremony in Martin Place.
☆ ☆ ☆
A popular feature of the Asian Festi-
val's exhibition, which was opened by the
Governor, accompanied by Lady Wood-
ward, on Commonwealth Day, was the
Japanese tea-ceremony. Five pretty
Japanese ladies, without shoes and wear-
ing traditional kimonos, sat back on
their heels in a demure pose, and one of
them, the hostess, Mrs. Yoshio Masuda,
served tea in the unhurried ceremonious
way that required about 30 minutes for
each to get a cup of tea. Each guest
drinks from the same bowl, which is
cleansed before the next is served. It
was a relief to hear that this ceremony
is not the usual thing in Japanese house-
holds. Otherwise one would never get
the work done or the gossip retailed!
The Festival of Asia was organised by
Asian students in Sydney (of whom there
are probably about 2000) to say “Thank
you” to the city where they are study-
ing. Judo, table-tennis, Eastern-fashions,
Ikebana flower-displays and an exhibi-
tion of Eastern crafts were arranged,
under the leadership of Mr. Herman
Malcolm, from Indonesia (he is studying
textiles here), Mr. Kassim Ismail, a
veterinary-science student, and Miss
Henrietta Sih (daughter of the former
Consul-General for China), who was in
charge of the talks section of the festival.
☆ ☆ ☆
Opening night of the Puccini opera
“Trittico” saw only one long evening-
dress worn, Mrs. Walter Bunning being
the wearer. Otherwise dressing was very
restrained, with emphasis on ihe informal
rather than otherwise. Saw Mr. and Mrs.
Raymond Beatty there with Miss
Margaret Gillespie, pianist Gwyn Aldis
and singer Betty Tysoe, whose new baby
boy, Craig, is just two weeks old. Wear-
ing a pretty white ermine coat over an
embroidered white dress, Mrs. Gladys
Schartl was accompanied by her sister,
Mrs. Madeline Matthews.
Speaking of opera and subjects allied
thereto, the Theatre Design Exhibition
to be opened at David Jones’ on June 8
promises to be something to note
especially in the appointment - book.
There is to be a delightful preview-party
the night before (the chicken-and
champagne variety) organised by Miss
Margaret Gillespie in aid of the Sydney
Opera House Appeal. The opening
ceremony on the following day will be
performed by Lady Lloyd Jones.
Mary Branagan, who stars in “Wedding
in Paris,” to be presented at the Con-
servatorium on July 8 and 9 by Rowe
Street Musicals, started her career with
this group in 1953. Now a teacher at
the Conservatorium and with a fine total
of performances for amateur groups and
for the State Opera Company, she comes
back to them as guest-artist. Mary has
won prizes in all the major eisteddfods
in N.S.W. and Victoria, has been heard
on radio and is becoming known as a
singer on TV. Her photo is by Peter J.
Theodore.
Peter Scriven was the guest-speaker
at the luncheon of Society of Women
Writers this month, and his subject The
Magic Pudding by Norman Lindsay,
which he has adapted to a play for
marionettes to open in Brisbane shortly
and to reach Sydney by the end of June.
He hopes, too, that it will go to London
for Christmas.
At the luncheon Miss Beryl Guertner
presided, and the Countess de Vilme-
Hautemont proposed the vote-of-thanks.
Mrs. Gwen Spencer Morton, wearing a
luscious - looking hat of strawberry
marabou-fluff, told members that The
Magic Pudding was the favorite chil-
dren’s book of English authoress Angela
Thirkell, Mrs, Jane Glad (daughter of
Mr. Lindsay) was guest-of-honor, and
Kitty Archer Burton, just returned from
a tour of New Zealand, was welcomed
back.
☆ ☆ ☆
x • B
They say that there are none so
blind as those who don’t want to wear
glasses, but the girls-who-do-wear-
glasses have received another bonus from
the fashion-designers (so it is reported
from the U.S.). They can now change
the color of their eyes by means of
colored contact-lenses.
The contact-lens is a small plastic
disk which fits over the eye, and the
colorless kind has been in use here,
especially by actors and actresses, for
quite a time. The colored ones were
developed in the U.S. to improve vision
in filtering bright light, but when it was
discovered that they changed the color
of the eyes also —well! When you want
to look keen, cool, efficient, you put on
your steely-blue eyes; for that certain
date your soft-brown eyes may be the
thing ; but when you really want to look
exciting, wear your green eyes!
Green, by the way, is the most
popular color for eyes on the American
market, and it is said that some women
choose orchid and lavender. Well, they
wouldn’t be any more weird than the
pallid faces and colorless lips which
seem to be the vogue in Sydney at
present.
As for Sydney, the latest thing it can
offer in glasses-fashions at present seems
to be the outfit consisting of two pairs
of specs and six sets of various-colored
clip-on tops to give a match for every
outfit. (“Me, I have a match for every
outfit, but then I only have one outfit.”)
The price of this latest line, by the
way, is £5O, so there is not likely to be
any mad rush until the sales come
along.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Sheep Show is on, and it is
interesting to note that there are 17
women and girls among the competitors
in the various sections. It is by no means
a modern notion, however, for women
to take part in sheep-raising ; Elizabeth
Macarthur, whose husband 150 years
ago did so much to establish the Aus-
tralian wool-industry, carried on her
husband’s work most successfully for
several years while he was in England.
Those exhibiting sheep are Miss K.
Bruce, of Cumnock (N.S.W.), Who has
entered Southdowns ; Mrs. K. Hicks, of
Orange (Ryelands); Mrs. A. Hordern,
Jun., of Culcairn (Southdowns) ; Mrs.
W. R. Johnson, of Gemella (Suffolks);
Miss P. A. Lenane, of Murringo (Junior
Farmers’ Section); Miss P. Welsh, of
Orange (Ryelands) ; Miss M. William-
son, of Taralga (Ryelands); and Miss A.
Turner, of Oberon (Junior Farmers).
Mrs. M. S. Bradshaw, of Ladysmith, has
entered Dorset-horns, in partnership
with her husband. Mrs. L. Cleary, of
Unanderra, will again be working a
dog in the sheep-dog trials ; eight girls
will be taking part in the judging com-
petitions, and two women have entered
fleeces in the National Fleece Com-
petition. Quite a good, muster for the
women, all told!


about people and events. It is doubtful
whether Graves ever wrote anything
better than this in prose. It could even
be argued that if he had never written
another line after it it would have been
enough to make him a lasting reputa-
tion.
Russian Mountains
Mountaineering and exploring books
seem increasingly to become high
politics these days: not only the obvious
politics that arise in The Red Snows
(Hutchinson), by Sir John Hunt and
Christopher Brasher, which is about
mountaineering in Russia, but also
politics of tact and prestige, and politics
of publishing tactics. We get an
“official” book, a composite book, as
in Hunt’s and Hillary’s Everest story
and Fuchs’s and Hillary’s Antarctic
book; and seldom do we get the single,
personal record which, written by such
men as Scott and Shackleton, showed
us that great adventurers could also
be great prose-writers.
Thus Sir John Hunt’s name appears
in first position on the title-page of
“The Red Snows,” yet. in fact, though
it is stated that his diaries were used
freely by Brasher, he contributes only
one chapter of his own writing. A
couple of chapters by George Band,
another member of the expedition, who
will be remembered for his perform-
ances on Everest, are also included;
and, though lively in themselves, again
tend to damage the unity of the book.
The Russian politics were, of course,
inevitable. Such is the ridiculous and
dangerous state of the world that
nobody can go to Russia and just write
a book about climbing mountains. It
is irresistible to describe the bother you
had trying to get your car across the
frontier, to comment on the lush
furnishings of the hotels in Leningrad
and, most interestingly in this book, to
give some account of the strangely
regimented system of Soviet mountain-
eering.
Before the Soviet citizen can climb
any peak he must fill-in a form stating
where he is going and (so that a rescue-
team can be ready) what time he
expects to return; and when he does
return to the big base-camp, mostly
populated by scientists on vacation, he
lines-up and reports to the leader of
the camp and, if he has been success-
ful, is given three cheers by the
assembled company and is garlanded
with flowers by the girls. Mountaineers
are graded into various classes, accord-
ing to their skill and experience, and
you can climb only the peaks appropri-
ate to your grade. As Brasher says, a
lot of this is sensible enough; but it
does sound somewhat military ... as.
for that matter, did the account of the
“assault” on Everest. People ought to
be able to walk up mountains without
their Governments, as such, taking the
slightest interest in them.
However, the British climbers liked
the individual Russians they met, both
climbers and peasants, and were most
hospitably treated; and. when you get
past the politics in this book there is
quite a lot of good mountaineering,
which Brasher does make sufficiently
his own to describe pretty well. The
expedition climbed various peaks in
the Caucasus in 1958.
Ranging, as Sir John Hunt says,
roughly midway in height between the
Swiss Alps and the Himalayas, it was
not particularly spectacular climbing;
but it had its dangers, discomforts and
successes; and. though British climbers
were there as long ago as 1868, it is
virtually new country, with some pleas-
ing glimpses of meadows of alpine
flowers, and lakes with wild swans
and the reflections of snowy peaks float-
ing in them, like a scene from “Swan
Lake.”
Politics come in again at the end
when the party, during an international
crisis, had some doubts (needless, as
it turned out) as to whether they would
be able to get home again; and when
Brasher, in an epilogue, considers the
mystery of the alleged Russian attempt
on Everest in 1952, in which six lives
were said to have been lost. The story,
Brasher concludes, was a furphy con-
cocted in East Germany.
Charles Kingsley
At first sight the title R. B. Martin
has chosen for his biography of Charles
Kingsley seems incongruous. The Dust
of Combat (Faber) has little apparent
connection with the rector of Eversley,
“radical and lovable” author of “The
Water Babies” and of several historical
novels. Christian Socialist, poet, critic,
A COLONIAL REBEL MUSES
Everything here —this row of civic palms,
White undulations of the esplanade,
The city hall facade, freakishly Doric,
Police on traffic duty by the fountain —
Everything smacks of fake solidity.
It’s like a family photo, I should say :
The mother a slut, her son a dribbling
dreamer,
Neurotic daughter living on nerves and
coffee,
Father rotting with drink . . . so it goes on
And yet the communal portrait only
shows
A steady smirking unity. The Devil
It must have been who first devised a
family
And thus perpetuated cruelty,
Lies and injustice lodged in every home.
From boyhood, slipping out my bedroom
window
After a lukewarm dinner, 1 have wan-
dered
Around the long streets of my double
life :
A passive sheep on the pavement, l have
been
The tyrant of my skull’s rebellious dark-
ness
At the same time. I fought a truce with
reason
Far from the falsehood of my mother’s
arms
And now l am myself: myself at last.
Knowing the usury that puffs these
shopfronts.
The wary and elusive economics
Which plump the pockets of our governor
With bribes from bandits, importers and
whores,
And other useful perquisites, l cannot
Fail to cut through our colony's pre-
tensions
And know the slow beast squatting at its
heart
While we are all poor jiving puppetry.
Surely we mingle in a rotten music,
Casino tunes blent with official anthems,
And praise we heap upon historic bronze
Falls to the frail cards and hollow dice
Of bumbling godheads in the gape of
chaos . . .
Or else I cherish dreams of resolution
Alone, while reason hawks along the
roads;
And this l cannot believe.
Surely we fail
Because disorder dissipates our living.
We could all swell like princes in this
country ;
We could walk safe in the darkest alley-
ways ;
We could feed daily on ripe fruit, white
bread,
Fish and clear wines, young pork and
beans and chickens
On every table. I could achieve such
things here
But for these bone - filled heads, these
sleeping dogs.
Look at them now, lazing about their
wine-shops,
Born, it would seem, only as bait for
tyrants;
And yet my nature must abhor such
courses
Because my thoughts are blown to
liberty.
Soon, soon, all rational men will join to
rip
This governor from his nest, these roots
of empire
From our black soil, to bring about my
vision,
And yet these same blind mouths will
reek and retch
In changeless folly, when we dub them
free.
What else, at last, is liberty ?
VIC.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


BOOK SCOUT
Free search service for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
sanitary reformer. Canon of Chester
and Westminster and tutor to the
Prince of Wales.
But the phrase was used by W. R
Greg in one of the most ill-natured yet
shrewd criticisms ever made of Kings-
ley. with reference to “Westward Ho!”
Perhaps it is appropriate in a figurative
sense.
There is no doubt that Kingsley was
a sort of “failed p.s.c.”; he loved the
pomp and panoply of soldiering and
delighted in “the arrival of a flying-
column of 2500 men—soo horses,
artillery, baggage, etc., encamped in
Bramshill Park. . . .and we all had the
scarlet-fever for the three days they
were there.” He was a serious armchair-
critic. with a strong and almost
jingoistic bias during the Crimean War
and the Indian Mutiny. Although he
loathed the term, he was the original
“muscular Christian.” and left as a
heritage to the boys of Wellington
College a couple of trophies for the
most gruelling foot - steeplechases
imaginable.
Always an irritant to the Victorian
society of which he was the supreme
example, he became seriously involved
in a dispute with Cardinal Newman.
The matter all started from Kingsley’s
misunderstanding. The author writes:
What Kingsley dimly remembered
was a sermon called “Wisdom and
Innocence,” which Newman had
published in 1843, before his sub-
mission to the Roman Catholic
Church. Kingsley was obviously
giving his general impression of the
sermon, but what Newman had
preached was quite the reverse.. a ..
The worlds of conscious thought
which separated the two men are
obvious ; here Kingsley suggests the
equally impassable psychological
barrier which must always keep them
from understanding one another.
Kingsley could not tolerate Newman
or Roman Catholicism, and his dis-
like went far beyond the distrust of
Catholicism shared by most of the
English gentry at that time: —
For Kingsley, “effeminate,” which
he so frequently used in describing
Roman Catholicism; had an old-
fashioned meaning which included
self-indulgence and lack of public
spirit, as well as the modern sig-
nificance of the word. Where he
applied it to Newman, however, the
term may have had a specifically
sexual connotation. Both Sir
Geoffrey [Faber] and Professor A. D.
Culler have pointed out the
peculiarly feminine qualities which
his friends and admirers ascribed to
Newman, all the way from Matthew
Arnold's famous description of his
graceful apparition gliding through
the gloom of St. Mary’s to Henry
Scott Holland’s saying that he
looked “delicate as an old lady,
washed in milk.”
The contradictory character of
Kingsley —one moment fulminating in
favor of Chartism and writing books
like “Alton Locke” and pamphlets
about “cheap clothes and nasty”; the
next basking in the favor of Queen
Victoria and the nobility—is explained
by the author quite simply. Kingsley,
always a stammerer, was
even among his social equals,
harassed by a lack of assurance that
sometimes swelled into self-assertive-
ness . . . His combatative nature was
not like a school bully’s, willing to
take on any comers, but more like
the behavior of chickens in determin-
ing peck-order.
Tuft-hunter, ultra-royalist and would-
be soldier, but in fact scientist, priest
and popular writer —though R. B.
Martin suggests that his brother Henry,
who worked in the Australian gold-
fields. possibly turned out much better
novels than he —Charles Kingsley died
in 1875 and was buried in Eversley
churchyard. R. B. Martin’s book is
thoroughly readable and well-illus-
trated with contemporary photographs.
Reviewed Briefly
Racing Yachts and Dinghies: James
Bartlett (Macdonald). A wide, stubby
little book of some 200 pages of plate-
paper running one and sometimes two
photographs to a page, it summarises
British small-craft and international
racing-types, giving type-specifications,
a little of their history, their designers
and their sailing waters. Catamarans
built by Roland and Francis Prout have
forced a revisal of the Portsmouth
Handicapping Table for 100 different
classes of boat; the Shearwater II can
reach 20 knots, while the Endeavor was
clocked at knots at Cowes in 1955.
The other hulls shown here are still
beautiful enough to make even a model-
yachtsman sigh, though they still don’t
seem to have heard of the brave little
boats that carry such enormous quanti-
ties of sail on Sydney Harbor.
discovers a black virgin previously un-
suspected: the end is improbable and
sentimental and noble. Whereas “Death
of a Lake” showed a lake drying up,
this book shows a lake filling up.
* * * *
Two Weeks in Another Town: Irwin
Shaw (Cape). A Book Society choice,
this is a powerful novel describing the
plight of contemporary Everyman in
his “permanent condition of being torn
asunder.” An American official in
some minor department of Nato finds
himself, in his early forties, on a trivial
errand which takes him to Rome for a
fortnight. He goes there to help a
friend and arrives sane, healthy and
happy. Then the forces of an extra-
ordinary society set to work on him.
overthrow his self-confidence, upset his
sense of values and undermine his will
to live.
* * * *
The Mountebank’s Tale: Michael
Redgrave (Heinemann). Though too
long-drawn-out for a novel, this tale by
actor Michael Redgrave has an
urbanity of style and a knowledge of
subject which rescue it from becoming
too tedious. It is based on the sugges-
tion that actors are the only sincere
hypocrites, and is about an old actor
who has led a life of imposture. The
tension is very well sustained through-
out. but unfortunately it never comes
to anything, so that the reader feels
that he could have done with less
portentousness and a much shorter
story.
* * * *
The Dead Don’t Matter: Spenser
Smith (Long). A group of Sydney
gangsters take an old house and dig
under the roadway towards the bank.
Digging and disposing of the soil are
complicated by jealousy over a girl.
The Warwickshire-born author “is now
senior feature-writer on a magazine in
Sydney.”
* * * *
Make Your Own Model Railway
Track: Kenneth F. Gee (Nelson). How
to lay-out rails, make scenic backdrops,
cardboard buildings, plywood stations.
Trees are made from twigs dipped in
gum and sprinkled with sawdust,
which is then dabbed with green paint;
or the foliage can be steel-wool. The
detail goes on to signal - boxes,
telegraph-poles, watchmen’s huts, load-
ing-gauges. passenger footbridges, time-
table boards, etc.
Bony and the Black Virgin: Arthur
Upfield (Heinemann). Returning to
their home near a dried-up lake back-
of-beyond in N. S. Wales the old
squatter and his son find a corpse near
the well and. later, another 18 miles
away, near the dam; one a stranger
from far away, the other the harsh
manager of an adjoining property. The
half-caste detective-inspector Napoleon
Bonaparte fossicks around among the
two families, discovers queer symbolic
paintings by the daughter of the station
suggesting a struggle of black love and
white love against the disapproval of
black tribe and white family ; and then,
in the tribe of blacks in the district,


A tractor
runs
S'
mm
*; •
' +' i~,
-...
-i-.S
• sr-
■;, „ 1
v>;-
’rtf.r
~ j.-v-.:•'
'*sl,
... money for fuel, repairs,
oil, time and labour spent in
maintenance and service— and
money you lose when your
tractor’s off the job. You’ll
save money on ail these, with
%
TRACTOR OIL.
UNIVERSAL
THE ONE OIL FOR ALL TRACTORS.
BP ENERGOL T.O.U is the
only oil designed for use in the
engine, transmission and hy-
draulic system of your petrol,
kerosine or diesel engined
tractor. It is also the only oil
suitable for all-year-round use.
This means a saving on storage and
handling. It eliminates the danger
of using the wrong oil in any of
your tractors.
BP ENERGOL T.O.U is free
flowing when cold, yet holds its
viscosity (thickness) under ex-
treme heat.
Wear is eliminated because your
engine is properly lubricated
under all conditions. It starts
instantly when cold, saving battery
strain, eliminating delays.
BP ENERGOL T.O.U resists
oxidation and corrosion, with-
stands the effects of fuel
dilution.
This means a cleaner engine and
longer engine life, full strength
lubrication always and fewer oil
changes . . . especially with
kerosine tractors.
f. Prompt deliveries of BP ENERGOL T.O.U are
available from your local agent.
BP/cflß
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED, formerly The
Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited
