

The Bulletin
Centenary of the N.T. page 4
Wednesday, April 13, 1960
Price l/«
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
"No spik English!”


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, U.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
S.A. ANTHOLOGY
Southern Festival (Rigby), “a collec-
tion of South Australian writings com-
piled by the S.A. Fellowship of
Australian Writers,” is a historical
collection in which the gold lies very
near the surface.
As lan Mudie says in his introduc-
tion, whereas the first South Australian
book of verse was published in 1840
and novel in 1847, the South Australian
“classics” are less than 30 years old:
a superb bit of swimming on the
beach at night from Leslie Mellor’s
“Quartette” (1932) and some children
going exploring in Myrtle Rose White’s
“Beyond the Western Rivers” (1935)
are evidence of that, though “The
Home of the Blizzard,” by Yorkshire-
born Sir Douglas Mawson from which
this anthology prints the terrible
account of the loss of Ninnis down a
crevasse, goes back as far as 1915.
At anthology-time and festival-
time standards become curiously
starched. Paul McGuire, for instance,
once had a world-reputation as a writer
of detective-stories, and a detective-
story would surely add to the appeal of
a State showing its literary medals —
but the selectors, and no doubt
McGuire himself, prefer to represent
him with a fragment of pawky satire
on Canberra from his “Australian
Journey.” Then again, Nancy Cato
has a story about sheep on a ship when
she might have had the one about the
girl-reporter who tricked the South
Australian Governor. Colin Thiele’s
hilarious story, “Dad Sank a Well,”
proves that South Australia has at
least one humorist; H. A. Lindsay’s
“Possum Hut” has all his knowledge
and observation with a touch of
warmth you don’t always find in his
writing; and Geoffrey Dutton’s
“Nicolai,” with its mad migrant walk-
ing off the train into the desert blowing
a trumpet made from a steer’s horn,
puts his State on-side with surrealism.
State anthologies make much of
newcomers and gratefully remember
emigrants. This is most noticeable in
the S.A. anthology’s war-section, with
its extract from “Behind Bamboo,”
by Rohan Rivett, who was born in
Melbourne; the R.A.N. story by Guy
B. H. Saunders, born in England;
poems by John Quinn, a Canadian
(they stand up very well, by the way),
by Flexmore Hudson (born at Charters
Towers), and by Leon Gellert, who,
although born in South Australia, has
lived in Sydney so long as to become
known and feared as the Bunyip of
Burran Avenue.
In the poetry sections Strehlow’s
powerful translation of an Aranda rain-
song rubs shoulders with a Blakian
poem by Robert Clark; the Jindywora-
bak pieces of Ingamells, Mudie and
Hudson gain from being strewn about
among the more sophisticated pieces by
Dutton, Max Harris and Nancy Cato
—one notices a pleasant portrait of a
farmer, “Bert Schultz” by Colin Thiele,
and that John Blight, whom one might
have imagined to have been a genuine
bit of Barrier Reef coral, was born at
Unley, S.A., and that they haven’t
failed to put in the new lyric from
England, “Bells of St. Peter Mancroft,”
which by itself could well justify
Colonel Light’s foundation of Adelaide
as a birthplace for Francis Webb.
There is an essay on Sir John Hind-
marsh, first Governor of S.A., by A.
Grenfell Price, and a profound little
study, “The Australian Fun Fair,” by
Douglas Pike, of the Australian
national character, literature, sport,
etc.
Then there are George Farwell on
camels; an extract from a forthcoming
novel by Max Harris about a no-hoper
in the depression; a hunt for hare-
wallabies, using fire as a beater, by
H. H. Finlayson; and an essay by
Rohan Rivett on “The Migrant and
the Community.”
The book is completed with brief
biographies of the contributors.
New Zealand under Fire
Prof. David P. Ausubel’s The Fern
and the Tiki (Angus and Robertson)
strikes me as the most severe and
sustained attack ever launched on a
young country. As a New Zealander
I would also say that there is an
element of truth in some of his criti-
cisms, and that if we can take it it will
do us good.
The prof, spent a year in N.Z,
(1957-58) as a Fulbright research-
scholar. In the matter of race-relations
his interviews were cafried-out without
a notebook so as not to arouse
suspicion. “Little did they suspect.... ”
says the wily professor. He considers
that racial relations are so strained
(“The only good Maori is a dead
Maori,” says the pakeha) that a com-
parative Little Rock is inevitable in
the years to come.
This is nonsense. Any differences
are purely social and not racial, and
have been aggravated over recent years
by the ballot-box bribery of rival politi-
cal parties. If taken seriously the pro-
fessor’s unwarranted conclusions may
cause serious harm.
Generally Ausubel charges the
pakeha with “a lamentable decline in
the standards of efficiency and depend-
ability.” Procrastination has “attained
the proportions of a national and near-
fatal endemic disease” . . . “Many
civil servants do not really earn their
pay.” Added to this the “passion”
for racing is “fantastic” and the
drunkenness “astonishing,” The prof,
reckons we dislike and distrust all
“foreigners,” and that American visi-
tors must be prepared to encounter
“sheer chauvinistic bigotry.” As for
Australians, he infers that we view
them as “brusque, brash, ill-mannered,
expansive, upstart Aussies.”
It is obvious that much of the de-
cline he has observed is to be attributed
to the debilitating years of Welfare
State rule. In some respects I am
inclined to agree with him. But on the
whole his pen has run away with him.
Indeed, reading between the lines, it
would seem that the professor was not
too happy with his reception here and
has hit back with regrettable venom.
Pat Lawlor.
Scoff Fitzgerald
Volume 1 of The Bodley Head Scott
Fitzgerald, published last year, con-
tained, along with the unfinished “Last
Tycoon,'’ such excellent fare as “The
Great Gatsby,” “May Day’* and “The
Crack-up.” Volume 11. lately issued,
is less rich: it has four undistinguished
short-stories: some letters to his
daughter, full of fatherly advice about
manners, reading and writing: three
short articles about the ’twenties, all
of them concisely evocative, and one of
them, “Echoes of the Jazz Age,” a
superb little packet of memories
wrapped tight with feeling: a percep-
tive memoir of Ring Lardner; and, the
main offering, “Tender Is the Night.”
All but one of these items were
written after the crash of 1929—that
is, during Fitzgerald’s crack-up period,
when his wife’s mind went, when he
was struggling with alcohol and what
he called “emotional bankruptcy,” and
the literary world, having labelled him
“Spokesman of the Jazz Age,” had put
him back on the shelf and turned to the
latest “terrible indictment”; the lonely
period when he developed that “wise
and tragic sense of life” which he men-
tions in one of the letters and which
he poured into “Tender Is the Night.”
This novel, like “Gatsby,” has for
theme the destruction of a poor but
talented young man by surrender to
the values of the American leisured
class. The destruction of Dr. Richard
Diver through his marriage to the
schizophrenic heiress Nicole is, how-
ever, a much more subtle destruction
than Gatsby’s. It is a destruction of
personality by one of Blake’s invisible
worms that fly in the night; we do not
know at what point it entered or when
C Continued on page 58)


/rT
l*7i\
laSnußjy lJodswMg,
N33HO IV 'O3O
n ‘Aid SMOS V M33HO 'H 30H030
‘a’|llJ} SJIIO
UIJ aq| JJB [BUOUBIU-HUJ SII ‘33IAJ3S pUB JJOJIUOD ‘UOIJBJado JO .(<(101103?
ÜBUUOjjad aanaq joj ’lqSiupiui [[U -we g iuo-ij uado si uorißjg
qinog pnio<|Eiuoiuj aqj pus appqißAß ([ipBOJ ai« sjjed
OO} uojißinis aaruas puß sijbJ ajßds piuoueiuajuj aqj aqq [
’lunuiiuiui
qosqg ue oi aunj-UMop jna puß sdui jojsbj 3aiB ‘aapuas joj appssaaas
>ui ‘aiqspuadap ajoui ,ub (aqj jaap aw ui sqaiuj jßiioijßiuajuj
( j (qM s,ißqj ‘pßOi aqj jjo aunj paojjß j t ÜBa 3M. sapiqa\ jo asa
iiuixbui pus iSuiuqi qjOMqaop joj sjjbo ,\pp (jaAipp juioq jqSia iiy
.
’3tVHfIO933IV maos
‘PBOJJ <ll3 SOZ-UI
‘ prj •i) t | -jsny jo 'O3 jajsaußjj [Buotjßiuajuj
aqj.
51 ‘Aaenußf i[ 193
«Oi
S<f Oxlr
Mr. George Green, Transport Manager of
George if. Green & Sons Pty. ltd., Melbourne,
helped solve his cartage problems with
Internationals." He has a. large fleet oper-
ating throughout Melbourne and relies on
his Internationals to get goods out in time.
SEE YOUR LOCAL IH DEALER OR NEAREST INTERNATIONAL SALES OFFICE TODAY!
INTERNATIONAL
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT 359/36


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 13,1960
Vol. 81—No. 4183
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’’
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE N.T. CELEBRATES
'THE Northern Territory, or part of
A it, has selected April, 1960, to
celebrate as its centenary, apparently
basing its calculations on the penetra-
tion of the centre by McDouall Stuart
on his journey in 1859-62.
Settlement of the Far North had, of
course, taken place many years before
that. The first abortive station had
been set down at Port Essington on
September 20, 1824. This and other
settlements were ephemeral, and the
series of experiments with them ended
in 1849, when the population was with-
drawn to the safer region of Sydney.
The Territory had been crossed by
more than one explorer before Stuart,
but in different directions—by Leich-
hardt from Moreton Bay to Port
Essington in 1845, and by A. C.
Gregory from the Victoria River—a
magnificent adventure which he sur-
vived for 50 years—in 1855-56.
The Territory’s corporate existence
was born in July, 1863, when it was
annexed by South Australia. Settle-
ment began at Palmerston, on Adam
Bay, on the Escape Cliffs, under Boyle
Finniss, who had been the first Premier
of South Australia and who took 42
settlers and officials thither in the
Henry Ellis in June, 1864, to try to
colonise among the swamps, crocodiles
and mosquitoes. But it was not till
after the McKinlay royal commission,
the Cadell investigation and the estab-
lishment of Darwin in 1869 by Goyder,
the South Australian Surveyor-General,
that permanence was achieved.
In 1870 the construction of the
Overland Telegraph was begun, and
two years later the Gordons synchron-
ised its completion and the opening of
the Yam Creek Goldfield, backed by
the feverish advertising from the Stock
Exchanges of the south, with their
historic droves of cattle from Queens-
land. These were followed in the
years to come by a huge growth of
the cattle industry, particularly on the
Barkly Tableland and the Victoria
River area under the impetus of a busy
export of live cattle to Asia.
TT is significant, however, that there
A was little really important develop-
ment of the Territory, even after its
formal transfer to the Commonwealth
on January 1, 1911, despite the fact
that it had been advertised as a vast
land of promise with an area ten times
that of England and Wales and a
potential which was supposedly a
perpetual temptation to the Orientals
of South-east Asia, who had looked at
it a thousand times and gone sadly
away.
Even as late as the beginning of
World War I arms were served-out at
Overland Telegraph stations to travel-
lers to be handed-in at the next stage,
and even after the war, as late as 1924,
the one police-sergeant and five or six
residents of Alice Springs had some
difficulty in sufficiently clothing the
native population to make them pre-
sentable for a visit by a State Governor.
Up to that time, and indeed for
some years afterwards, the crossing of
the Territory, much less its intensive
settlement, was regarded as high
adventure.
Until the beginning of World War
11, though advertised by its cattle-
droves, its stations as large as Belgium,
its white women captured by wild
blacks who weren’t very wild, its buffa-
loes and crocodiles, the Flying Doctor,
Flynn of the Inland and his missions
and pedal-radio, the Territory only
became cause for excitement or even
general attention when somebody dis-
covered a fresh goldfield. The ulti-
mate discovery of Tennant Creek, on
a spot where the road had been worn
into ruts by the passage of thousands
of camel-teams, really set the stage
for the growth of Centralian popula-
tion.
World War II made the terrain
familiar to tens of thousands of young
Australians, Americans and others —
in 1942 its military population was
100,000. The provision of aerodromes,
water every few miles, of the great
highways—“the bittamen” to Terri-
torians —across the Centre, plus regular
air-services which passed through to
link the continent with the great world
outside, began to set the Territory
squarely on its feet and prepare it for
the atomic age of uranium.
It is true that at the time of its Red
Centre centenary celebrations it still
has a long way to go to be in a satis-
factory condition. Its inland areas are
low-rainfall areas, and, unfortunately,
their rainfall is restricted to the hot
season.
Much of its best land in which
there is sub-artesian water easily
obtainable with lightly-powered pumps
and windmills is not fattening-country,
being without herbage and carrying
very little timber—the Barkly Table-
land is in that category. Much more
is in the hands of big overseas com-
panies which are content to jog along
at the least expense for development
and with the least possible liability to
taxation.
A/fINERAL exploitation has created
some new towns where towns
could not have existed before, to pro-
duce uranium, copper and gold and
some minor rare metals. Air-travel
and the basis of a road-system left by
the fighting-forces have supplemented
the transport facility which brought the
railway into Alice Springs.
“The Alice,” then scarcely a village
despite the impetus provided a little
later by the rush to the Granites, is
now a substantial tourist - centre,
fashionable and unique in Australia in
its accessible surrounding scenery, but
not yet arrived at the state of civilisa-
tion which is evident in Las Vegas,
there scarcely even being a poker-
machine in the place. Darwin has
grown into a substantial little city.
Altogether, the Territory in its
chosen “centenary year” is civilised,
which it was not 40 years ago. It is
possible, thanks to the oil-engine, the
kerosene-refrigerator, the radio-tele-
phone, the Flying Doctor and the
Welfare State, for white people to live
in most parts of it in comfort equal to,
or greater than, that possible in most
country towns along the eastern littoral,
provided the inhabitant doesn’t mind
dust and snakes.
The Payne-Fletcher Report, pro-
duced in 1937, showed the full pas-
toral possibilities of the country pro-
vided it is given organised stock-routes,
breeding-centres, transport and a fair
deal from the Government. The
mineral resources, especially those of
the great ranges which run out of the
tablelands of north-west Queensland
to the Macarthur and of the far north-
west and the desert centre, are only
beginning to be known.
The keynote of the existing situation
is that the Territory has now passed
out of the stage of “wild men without
women” into the age of the tourist
and the large-scale developer.
It still has some way to go to achieve
the population of 30,000, with which
Queensland began independent life as
a responsibly governed colony; but it
is in a condition of greater advance-
ment, and it certainly could be
governed better from its own interior
capital than from Canberra if the Com-
monwealth could get used to the idea
of paying a subsidy through the Federal
Grants Commission during develop-
mental decades without exercising
complete control of everything.


FOOT OF THE RAINBOW


PLAIN ENGLISH
Latrobe
If Messrs. Calwell and Whitlam are
really as delighted at the result of the
Latrobe by-election as they profess to
be, they are easily satisfied. When
preferences are distributed the Liberal
candidate should win by about 3000
votes. This certainly will not be the
victory it was in 1958, when Lord Casey
had an overall majority of 3984 and
could have counted on trebling his
margin on a resort to preferences.
Calwell says that the result indicates
that Labor has “forced the Menzies
Government into the humiliating posi-
tion of having to survive on D.L.P.
preferences in what has been a blue-
ribbon seat of Liberalism” and that "we
have destroyed the illusion of invinci-
bility the Menzies Government has
sought to create for itself.”
The truth is that the Latrobe vote was
partly a Casey personal vote and that
the seat is a rapidly changing electorate.
It has lost 5000 of the voters of 1958,
and taken in 8000 new voters, most of
whom are employed in the expanding
industries of a quickly developing and
increasingly industrialised electorate.
The increased D.L.P. vote is nothing
for Calwell to chortle about, especially
as he owes his election as leader largely
to the fact that a section of caucus which
mistrusted his judgment backed him in
the belief that he could pull in the
Catholic vote.
If Latrobe has proved anything it has
proved that in his own bailiwick he is
about as weak a magnet as it would be
possible to find.
The most that can be said from the
Liberal point of view is that the Govern-
ment has lost some support through
erosion due to industrialisation and the
departure of support and also some of
the vote which was Lord Casey’s own
personal following.
But those who voted for Casey and
not Liberalism have largely preferred
still not to vote for Calwell.
Macquarie-street Deadlock
Passed a second time by the N. S. Wales
House of Assembly, the bill for a
referendum on abolition of the Legisla-
tive Council was again refused considera-
tion by that Chamber, the nine Labor
rebels voting with the Opposition. As
in December, the argument was
advanced that such a bill should originate
in the Council. Presumably the Govern-
ment didn’t agree with this or didn’t
want to put the sincerity of the rebels
to the test; otherwise it would have
initiated the second bill in the Council.
But it didn’t, and in consequence the
Assembly-born bill was back on the
doorstep of its birthplace in double-
quick time.
Premier Heffron’s next move was to
appoint a team of “managers” to confer
with Council “managers” in accordance
with the Constitution to see if the dead-
lock could be resolved. The Council,
however, by 32 votes to 22, declined to
appoint a team, arguing that the request
for a conference was not in order as the
situation provided for in Section 5b of
the Constitution had not arisen.
The Opposition’s case is that the bill
cannot be said to have been rejected by
the Council in the sense intended in the
Constitution, as it has never been debated
by the Council.
The distinction is one which causes
the mouths of Constitutional lawyers to
water. Heffron seems to intend to give
them the opportunity by summoning a
joint meeting of the two Houses without
the preliminary conference of “mana-
gers.” This would almost certainly be
challenged in the courts by the Opposi-
tion. And once that starts the whole
long road to the Privy Council is opened.
Angry Young Men
[From Canberra]
The Angry Young Men are no longer
confined to fiction and films —they are
a reality in the ranks of the Liberal-
party back-benchers in Canberra.
They include men like David Fair-
bairn, Bill Falkinder, Bill Wentworth and
others who entered Parliament in the
landslide of 1949 with high hopes of
taking an active part ii> the running of
the country and possibly, in time, with
Ministerial status.
Today, after 10 years on the Govern-
ment benches, they are even further from
both goals than when they started.
The cause of their anger is varied.
They are dissatisfied with some aspects
of Government policy (e.g., the airlines
controversy); they feel they are ignored
by the Ministry, some of whom they
consider “Johnny-come-latelys”; they are
frustrated in their ambitions to attain
Ministerial rank and they realise that time
is now against them and not with them.
Lastly, they resent the fact that any
criticisms they voice at party-meetings
are resented by the upper echelon.
Dissension among this group has been
mounting since the last elections—and
the last Cabinet reshuffle—and is likely
to explode at any moment. Already
it has openly broken out in the party-
room and there are few Ministers who
have not in recent weeks been on the
receiving end of criticism for the hand-
ling of their portfolios.
The latest was Civil Aviation Minister
Paltridge, who only last week was sub-
ject to a fierce attack by one of the
Angry Young Men over his handling of
the airlines controversy.
, Because of the growing clashes in the
party-room, senior Ministers, with the
reported backing of the Prime Minister,
are taking steps to ensure there will be
no future leakages of party discussions.
One Minister told a recent meeting
that he had received legal advice that
party-meetings were privileged and any
report of them would render the pub-
lisher liable to prosecution. The P.M.
stated that if he discovered any Minis-
terial “leak” he would himself instantly
deal with the offender, with a quick
release of Ministerial duties. Menzies
said it would be in the hands of members
themselves to deal with offending
members, with the result that some
members are beginning to feel apprehen-
sive if they are seen talking to a news-
paperman.
Unless the Ministry takes the back-
benchers generally more into its con-
fidence there’s bound to be a flare-up in
the room on the Speaker's right.
"Operation Desperation"
A Sydney charity which for many years
has been doing marvellous work for
handicapped children is now in
desperate need of funds. This is the
Mosman Spastic Centre, which daily
provides transport and treatment for 190
kiddies, out-patient treatment for 1200
more, and conducts a hostel at French’s
Forest for country children.
With an overdraft of nearly £55,000
and the necessity for putting its fleet of
21 buses in good repair—breakdowns at
present average three a day—the com-
mittee realises that unless funds can
be raised quickly it will be forced to
curtail its activities —which means that
many unfortunate youngsters will have
to be refused treatment.
“Operation Desperation” is to be a
door-to-door collection appeal and will
be conducted during the fortnight begin-
ning on April 22 and ending on Mothers’
Day, May 8. For this appeal the Spastic
Centre needs 25,000 voluntary workers.
The Centre will prepare and supply
everything needed to make the drive a
success, but it needs the helpers—“people
with big hearts, who are prepared to
sacrifice some part of their time and
energy on behalf of children who cannot
help themselves.”
Anyone willing to help should write
or ring the Spastic Centre, 6 Queen Street,
Mosman (phone XM 5467). Big hearts
in other States have The Bulletin’s
assurance that this is a cause which really
deserves their support.
De Gaulle and Churchill
[From “J.E.W.”]
In London on Tuesday of last week
General de Gaulle, after his firm refusal
to be bluffed or brqwbeaten in France
by the touring Khrushchev, who found
it expedient to make concession after
concession to the French leader, got one
of the greatest popular receptions ever
given to a foreigner in the old city’s proud
history.
There was another on Wednesday,
when the General drove through packed
and cheering crowds to a Guildhall
luncheon, where he said “the most
precious encouragements” he had re-
ceived during the war came from King
George VI and the Royal family. No
mention of Sir Winston Churchill.
All very nasty for Sir Winston ; but
Churchill, in his treatment of de Gaulle
during the war, in his remarks to friends
and in his history of the conflict, never
bothered to conceal his dislike for


and distrust of the General. “You like
the man, I don’t,” he said to Duff
Cooper, as that Minister records in his
Old Men Forget, and Duff Cooper’s
remonstrances were unavailing (“In vain
I sought to persuade him that whether
I liked de Gaulle or not was of no
importance.!’).
To Duff Cooper de Gaulle complained
that the P.M. had “treated North Africa
as his own country; had ignored the
Governor-General of Tunisia and paid
no attention to the Governor-General
of Morocco.” Bidden to the Presence,
the de Gaullists found they were appa-
rently expected to seek the intervention
of Smuts:
It had not, of course, occurred to the
P.M. that Smuts was the most unsuitable
person to have been selected to meet the
French, as they will never forgive him for
saying that France would never be great
Power again.
It was during this period that Churchill
lauded the Russian dictator with praise:
“that great and good man Stalin.” To
Roosevelt he wrote on June 4, 1944:
“I do not know how I can depend on
a de Gaullist France.” But that was of
no great consequence: “We have a
twenty-years’ alliance with Russia.”
Where is that alliance now, and where
is Anthony Eden, who negotiated it?
Helping Hand Department
Few bills in recent years have had such
an attentive and warm hearing on the
second-reading speech as the Social Wel-
fare Bill which was explained by the
Chief Secretary in the Victorian
Assembly. The main reason for this
is that the bill is a sincere attempt to
extend social welfare in Victoria,
especially in dealing with youngsters
and families, and it undertakes social
reform in a comprehensive way.
The bill establishes a Department of
Social Welfare with three branches:
family - welfare, youth - welfare and
prisons. The chief of these will be youth-
welfare which will take over delinquent
children over 14 and rem’Ove from the
care of the penal department young
offenders up to 21.
An important, and possibly contro-
versial activity of the family-welfare
branch will be preventive work among
families. The Chief Secretary describes
this as not waiting for the stage to be
reached where children have to be re-
moved for their own care and protection.
The line here is thin, and dangerous.
Children’s courts will be empowered
to commit persons over 14 and under 17
to youth-training centres, and ordinary
courts will be permitted to commit
youths up to 21 to the centres. A youth-
parole board will be established to con-
trol the release of these youths.
The prisons-branch of the new depart-
ment will remain as it is, with the upder-
21s removed, but presumably the proba-
tion-system, which has proved so success-
ful, will be continued. The passage of
the bill is assured. It was foreshadowed
some months ago, and the bill follows
substantially the outline then given and
acclaimed.
The Brake in U.K.
The United Kingdom Budget, usually a
document which sets the nation agog and
makes the Labor party rub its hands in
anticipation, was this year sensational in
its unsensationalism.
Politically Machiavellian in its con-
struction, it was less palatable to the
Right-wing Conservatives, an ungrateful
and shortsighted lot, who failed to see
what even “The Times” discovered at
first glimpse—that it had designedly or
otherwise stripped the Labor party of
most of the remaining vestiges of its
distinctive financial programme.
In a leader “The Times” wrote that
some of the Opposition’s flattered pride
was “qualified by a fear of future elec-
toral nakedness, which Oppositions feel
when the Government steals some of
their clothes ; for Mr. Heathcoat Amory
certainly took over at least part of their
haberdashery.”
The basic features of the Budget were:
Provision for taxation of unit-trusts, with
some income-tax relief; payments for
retirement from office to be taxable;
losses on-farming by rich men who make
a hobby of it to be no longer deductible
against their main earnings ; taxation of
royalties after profession ceases —these
royalties hitherto have been treated as
capital ; defence-bond holdings to be
limited to £5OOO in a new issue ; limit of
holdings in savings certificates, 1200
units ; national insurance flat rate allow-
ance of £l5 on a graduated scale. Profits-
tax went up from 10 per cent, to
per cent. '
On the commodity-taxes, which are
usually the central focus of interest,
everything looked a bit depressing, save
that entertainments-tax on cinemas was
abolished, presumably under the impact
of TV.
Tobacco-tax went up by 2d. on 20
cigarettes and 3s. 4d. per lb. on tobacco,
but 12s. a gallon was taken off imported
wines (save for light wines imported in
cask), a similar amount off British Com-
monwealth sparkling wines and Bs. off
still heavy wines.
The income-tax allowance on depend-
ent relatives was raised from £6O to £75,
and there is a new allowance of £4O for
a widow or widower with children who
has no housekeeper.
One of the most welcome changes in
many quarters was the £2-million cut in
estate-duty levied on gifts in the third,
fourth and fifth year before death.
. Mr. Amory described the Budget as
designed to “consolidate and fortify our
present prosperity.” It does not add to
spending power and constricts it in some
channels.
The Budget follows on the raising of
the bank-rate in January and other mea-
sures taken at that time, and the Chan-
cellor now gives a warning that a juncture
may soon arrive “when it would be right
to take other steps to restrain further
expansion of private credit” and that “w r e
stand ready to do so.” He obviously saw
the danger, having last year produced an
expansionist Budget with an election in
prospect, of running into balance-of-
payments problems this year if he does
not put the brake on.
He seems to envisage that the balloon-
i ing hire-purchase and private-bank lend-
ing will reach a point at which the Gov-
ernment may have to intervene —perhaps
by asking the Bank of England to apply
the Australian system of “special
deposits”—as provided for, but not used,
in 1958 when restrictions on lending were
lifted.
The Government’s problems are
heightened by its inheritance of the
Socialism of the Attlees. It has, for
instance, to budget this year in the light
of £9O-million deficit in Transport Com-
mission finances, partly produced by the
interim 5 per cent, rise in railway wages,
all of which will have to be met from
revenue.
TV in Latrobe
[From Melbourne]
/~\ne thing the Latrobe by-election
demonstrated was the growing im-
portance of TV in politics. The politics
of the Victorian metropolitan press is
now an indefinable watery-blue Liberal,
with no thundering convictions what-
ever. The newspapers took no more
than a tolerant and slightly amused in-
terest in what went on in the campaign,
and only the TV-sessions stirred any
real interest.
The newspapers’ attitude reflected the
reaction of the voters themselves towards
the by-election. Canvassers talking about
Communism, unity-tickets, the Common-
wealth Prime Ministers’ conference and
even inflation were stunned to get such
replies as: “Yes, but do you know when
they’re going to put-in a sewer?” or
“Can you please tell me when the water
will be turned on?”
Unofficially, Labor gave up hopes of
winning Latrobe a week before the poll;
it continued to campaign keenly be-
cause a creditable score was important
politically, and was personally vital to
Arthur Calwell. This was the reason
for its decision to buy time on a com-
mercial channel last Wednesday night at
9.30. The D.L.P. had booked 15 expen-
sive minutes on the rival channel, and
the Labor organisers recognised be-
latedly that the D.L.P. might swing a
worth-while number of votes with this
last-minute effort.
The Liberals are more acutely aware
than Labor of TV’s impact, and this, no
doubt, was why they produced The
Trump on TV a fortnight before the
poll. The Prime Minister obligingly put
the play right. The Liberals, of course,
always have an edge on their chief
opponents in new mediums, since they
are used to dealing with situations as
they exist and are not hamstrung by
policies or party lines.
The importance of TV in politics is
well recognised in Britain, and in the
U.S. commentators of the calibre of
John Lardner say it is becoming more
and more the medium for breaking spot-
news, rather than a channel for explain-
ing it.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: From the issue of
“Time” that had Dobell’s portrait of
Mr. Menzies on the cover:
Well-to-do Australians who used to
import their art now decorate their homes
with Sidney Nolan’s poetic visions of
Australia’s outback, William Dobell’s
savagely realistic portraits, or the land-
scapes of the late aborigine Albert
Namatjira.
Would someone please tell “Time” we
haven’t grown-up as suddenly as all that?
Well-to-do Australians have been buying
their own artists’ work for 50 years, if
not longer, and a good Roberts, Streeton
or Graster brings at least £5OO today.
“Narumee”: From my teenage
correspondent:
I shouldn’t bother to come to the school
dance. It wouldn't be much fun just a
lot of kids. If you don’t come could I
borrow your angora stole? and be sure
and don't send it later than Weds arvo.
By the way, I really need a stole because
that old thing of mine looks groovy. It’s
getting freezing in the evenings these days,
isn’t it?
A A
V V V
“Maitri”: Dad and teenage daughter
had just returned from the smart party
for distinguished visitors from overseas.
Mother, unable to attend because of a
bad foot, waited-up for a ball-to-ball
description of the frocks. “Mrs. Whosis
was an easy winner,” averred Dad.
“Now, there’s a woman who knows how
“Now gallop inside with it — he'll soon catch-on .”
to dress.” But daughter disagreed. “She
was got-up like a fireworks display. It
was Mrs. Vere-de-Vere who looked
marvellous.” Dad looked at her as if
she’d gone off her head. “Mrs. Vere-de-
Vere,” he echoed. “Marvellous, you
say? In the dingy black rag she had
? n r,K P . r M ingS w by MOther brOU ,? ht '1
light that Mrs W, m a gown- patterned
with royal-blue butterflies sporting
among immense puce fuchsias and
adorned from top to toe with doodahs
and knick-knacks, had bowled over the
males, but there wasn a woman present
who wouldn t have traded-m her im-
mortal-soul for the simple Pans model
M v n ?l e .v g SenU ' ne S ° £
ls ' e
*
“Judee”: A solicitor at Newcastle
(N.S.W.) court asked for an adjourn-
ment on behalf of a client charged with
driving under the influence; the case
could bring automatic disqualification of
licence, he said, and his client was teach-
ing his wife to drive ; she was expected
to be a licensed driver inside a month.
Case adjourned for one month.
“Sister Ellell”: All this brou-ha-ha in
the press about mouth-to-mouth resusci-
tation! It s been used by obstetricians
and midwives for years. When I was
endeavoring to beat the Stork at his own
game I had to use that method twice ;
once with success and once without.
When you have time to think about it,
the idea is nauseating, but the thrill of
feeling a new-born baby breathe, when
it appeared lifeless, has to be experienced
before you can gauge the sense of
achievement, and conversely, when there
is no response, nothing can describe the
feeling ef frustration and despair.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nettle”: The group of small boys
stood admiringly around the be-finned,
nearly - as - wide - as - the - street Ameri-
can car, certainly a showpiece in spite
of a film of dust. “Not bad, is it?” said
one imp to the elegant, obviously blue-
blooded driver as she stepped from it.
“No . . . not bad,” she agreed. Another
prolonged scrutiny, then: “Na . . . not
bad at all. Only needs a wash.”
v v v
“Dileabach”: Some of my Greek
friends MMura attempted J join the
Mildura Workers' Club. Their applica-
tions were ; red , and a(ter " f
mon ths one of the Australian-born
Greeks got his lawyer on the job .. Bu , ..
says ,the secretary, “we can't admit him
to membership. Membership is strictly
for Australians on!v He . s F a Greek >
" He was born here -” sa y s the lawyer
drily, “and is as much an Australian as
you are.” The Australian-Greek was
notified by the next post that his mem-
bership was accepted. But perhaps that
explains why the Greek community have
formed their own club, where I am told
they do other things than continually
bend the elbow.
A BALLAD OF NEW BUILDINGS
“The American Hilton Corporation will
probably operate Chevron, the 35-floor hotel
at King’s Cross (Sydney); across from it,
Mereton, a 28-story, drive-in private hotel with
attendants to park cars, has received Works
Committee approval; and Sunny Vale, 55
Double Bay flats, ‘one of the few Sydney
blocks built for letting since the war,’ will
rent for from £9 9s. to £l5 15s. a week.”
When Chevron pub has built-on
Kings Cross’s topmost tier
Go in to Mr. Hilton :
“Is Swilliam staying here?”
“Say, brother, who is ‘Swilliam’?
His name cannot be found.”
“Just poor white trash, he’s got no
cash” —
“I haven't seen him round.”
When Mereton s ascendant,
Call on them in your car
And ask the car-attendant:
“Is Swilliam staying hyar?”
“Well, mate, I’ve heard that name be-
fore- j
Where was it? Man alive-
That silly cuss in the Wylde Street bus
That wouldn’t come up the drive!”
Then wander out to Sunny Vale,
The flats at Double Bay,
And give the occupants a hail:
“Is Swilliam in today?”
“That bounder in our building!
No, varlet, get you hence, '
There’s no such ninnies among our
guineas —
Go. seek him in the pence ! ”
So venture out to Randwick
Where the zombie horses roam,
And if you want that lunatic
He’ll possibly be at home,
For his bath’s as near as ever he gets
To being in the swim,
And the rents that soar to the 35th floor
Were not put up for him !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Wusslean”: For the opening chapter
of a war-time true-adventure yarn, it’s
not a bad effort at suggesting dark,
mysterious deeds to come:
In a couple of weeks C was in
Melbourne, walking away from 260 Domain
Road, already a member of an organisation
so secret that nobody could tell him what
it was, or what part he was to play in it.
It does remind me, though, of my
Uncle Ned’s claim that he read the
newspapers, walked the corridors for
exercise, and regularly drew his pay for
three years before someone at Canberra
assigned him a desk and a job.
♦♦♦ *** ♦>
“Tom Trout” (London): How’s this
for a mutation (B. 3 /2/ ’6O) of “Waltzing,
Matilda”?:
Olim sedebat prope ripam fluminis,
Solus grassator sub umbra fagi,
El cantabat donee cestuaret in cortina aqua,
“Veni ut saltemus, Matilda, veni!” ( Etc .)
Ad ripam move devenit agnus sitiens,
Quern rapuere manus viri,
Er cantabat dutn preedam collegit in sacculum,
“Veni ut saltemus, Matilda, veni!”
and so on until the final tragedy:
Eel ox grassator in aquarn desiluit,
“Nunquam me copies! Melius mori!”
Sed vox umbree audiatur prope ripam fluminis,
“Veni ut saltemus, Matilda, veni!
Veni, Matilda ! Veni, Matilda !
Veni ut saltemus, Matilda, veni!”
This classic version I heard one morn-
ing issuing from the 8.8. C. in the
octogenarian tremolo of that prolific
bringer of joy to past youth, Frank
Richards, creator of the immortal Billy
Bunter and still sparking at 85. Transla-
tion of popular songs into Latin is one
of the old master’s pastimes. If any of
our classicists wish to try it at their
next smoke-oh, they’ll need to heed his
warning that in singing all elisions must
be observed.
* * *
“Ymar”: Before the Workers’ Com-
pensation Board in Ballarat (Vic.) a man
who claimed to be totally incapacitated
admitted that he was earning £25 a
week —but only for “pottering about/’
“Now what on earth,” asked a puzzled
Melbourne barrister of his fellows,
“could he be doing? The only game I
know where you can make twenty-five
pounds a week just pottering about is
the law!”
*** +X+ <4
“Sevenelms”: “Bo’s” seagoing villain
(B. 30/3/’6O) who jettisoned the suitcased
cadaver through a port could easily do
so because “port” in that context means
an opening in a ship’s side for entrance
or loading, and derives from the French
porte, or “gate.” In nautical usage it
originated as “gun-port.” The round
window of your cabin is a different kettle
of fish, and you may think of and call it
a “porthole” while others don’t. You
may say petulantly, “Steward, must you
close the porthole?” and he will reply
in smooth Cockney, “Sorry, sir ; orders
from the Bridge ; slight sea expected,
and all scuttles to be secured.”
♦!«
“Ceg”: “Sack” (B. 30/3/’6O), on that
big “L” (for learner), should have been
with me at a Victorian seaside suburb
on the sunny afternoon lately when a
pair of beatniks passed-by. The swain
had lovely sideburns, a canary-colored
pullover and puce slacks. He was swing-
ing a transistor-radio turned-on full-blast
while his inamorata clung bemusedly to
his disengaged arm and gazed into his
beatnik eyes. As they passed, a large
card with a big “L” on it came into
view, securely hooked to the back of
that canary-colored pullover. If that cove
was a learner, then I’m a Chinese
herbalist.
❖ ❖ *
“Eureka”: On a holiday in Melbourne
I saw a sign in one of the suburbs:
“Budgies boarded in ideal surroundings
at the Budgie Guest House.” When 1
“If’s not a cocktail-bar, really — it's just that
Grandad likes to live in the past”
returned that way the following day
someone had neatly altered the “u” in
“Budgies” to “o.” Come to that, what
would be the ideal surroundings for
bodgies?
♦t+ ❖ ❖
“Bert’s Wife”: At Adelaide Festival
many were surprised to hear Salome
pronounced Salo may until it was ex-
plained that this is the German pro-
nunciation. It proved confusing to at;
least one character who was heard at
the box-office asking for “tickets to
Salami” —as in sausage!
+£* ♦£-
“D.1.F.”: A lip-reading tournament,
organised by the Australian Association
for Better Hearing, is held annually in
all States of Australia. Teams of five
compete in each branch of the associa-
tion. A new departure is the making of
a colored movie of the “speaker” whose
lip-movements are read in the tourna-
ment. This is being done in Newcastle
(N.S.W.) by branch-members and co-
operative members of the public. An
experimental film, shown to delegates at
a conference in Melbourne, was voted
as being excellent.
* * *
“Sebak”: The clamor for mechanised
doors on all N.S.W. electric-trains (10
trains are equipped with ’em) is on again,
but at least one fellow doesn’t regard
them highly. He rushed up the steps at
Central and swung into the carriage just
before the train started. Safe aboard,
he did what all late-arrivals do —leaned-
out to look at the indicator. At that
moment the doors be-
gan to close. The
leaner - out promptly
pulled his head in, but
not, alas, his bag. It,
one of those canvas
airline-advertisers,' was
trapped outside, with
its owner frantically
tugging at the handle
on the inside. The train
was halfway to Red-
fern before he realised
his struggles were
hopeless. Glued to his
position because other-
wise the bag would fall
out and be lost when
the doors opened
again, he stood like a
variation of the boy at
the dyke till the train
stopped at Redfern.
Looking back, it had
its funny side, but L
wonder would the
newspapers have
clamored for the aboli-
tion of automatic doors
if I’d had my head cut
off by ’em?
❖ ♦> ❖
“D.”: I came home
to see Marion, my
wife’s cobber, who
sometimes looks - in
and has a pre - dinner
drink, with a gin-and-
water instead of her favorite gin and
ginger-ale. “It’s Lent,” she said, “and
I’m on a diet. I couldn’t give-up any
more foods, and there was only my
evening drink left. So I gave up the
ginger-ale.”
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Bo”: I have sorrowfully to record
an addendum to my account (B.
6/4/’6O) of a repairless TV repair-job.
I duly received the bill: 30-bob, as
accurately predicted by the genial bird
who came out to see why the wherefore.
But that was for his time. To that they
added 18-bob for “labor.” This com-
passed the burdensome toil of switching
on the knob (-Jsec.), waiting for approxi-
mately 20sec. before the picture showed-
up and convincing him all was as it
should be with the screen, and then
switching it off (|sec.). Even on a fancy


screw, that would represent in wages
no more than 14d. Apparently it cost
me 17s. 10yd. to ply him with a glass
of suds! However, I have recovered a
whit from the wreck. He left a
pair of long-nosed pliers, and 1 con-
sider that my moral fibre is nowise
frayed at the edges because 1 bunged
’em in my toolbox.
“ Don't ask ME where your mummy is —see if she's with that bunch."
“Glasgie”: The nickname “Radar”
(B. 30/ 3/’6O) reminds me of another
character, also reputed to be good at
picking-up things. His first name being
Jack he was called by his mates
Hydiaulic J ac k ,j? e( J^ use ’ J l . vvas
explained to me, he d lift anything.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Sister Ellell”: A day in a com-
paratively underprivileged suburb re-
minded me of my training-days in
Sydney’s Paddington - Newtown. One
of the ladies had been “taken
advantage of” by a sailor; she
fetched -up at the ante - natal clinic
full of umbrage ; there was no stopping
her diatribe, and arms akimbo she
rattled on: “Yes,” she said, “I know
which boat he's on, and when it comes
into the port I’ll be waiting for him.”
Sister intervened: “For heaven’s sake,
nothing violent , now, and this pro-
voked a snort: Whadjer think I am?
All I want is enough money for a down-
payment on the lay-by for a pram!
*** *
“Tom Trout”: Not much air-
conditioning in Spain, but in the hot
south they are adept at older, simpler
methods. In towns, every couple of
■ hundred yards, if not a fountain, there’s
a pipe gurgling water where you can
dowse your hot neck and remark how
cool the sound of running water is.
Dark, tiled entrances to buildings keep
the heat at bay ; but coolest and loveliest
are the patios, shady with greenery,
pillared, often roofed with a grape-
vine awning, still, and absolutely quiet
—except for that delicious music of
water on water.
❖ *X* *t*
“A.J.0.”: 1 met a nephew of the late
Judge Mocatta in the Lismore Club ; he
was greatly interested in The Bulletin
anecdotes about his uncle, and told me
another. A photographer at Lismore
was listed for the jury. The date of the
hearing clashed with that of the agricul-
tural show at which the photographer
had several lucrative engagements. He
made such a fuss that the Crown
Prosecutor intervened on his behalf
before Judge Mocatta, “Would your
Honor like to decide this application in
camera?” “Mo’s” prompt reply was:
answer is in the negative.”
“Groomin’’: Scene, the very ’ighklars
hairdresser’s salon. Telephone rings and
tall, willowy, superbly coiffured and
manicured glamassistant answers:
“Good afternoon —Permasetti’s . .
Good afternoon, Madam . . . Oh, I see
—how very unfortunate . . . Oh, yes,
Madam, I’m sure Mr. Permasetti will
be able to fit you in somewhere—l’ll
just go and inquire.” Glamassistant puts
down receiver, undulates to cubicle.
beckons out boss with discreet, sweet
smile and then inquires with carrying
clarity: “C’n yew take the old K’foops
cow t’morrer arvo? ’Cos she’s cancelled
her two-thirty—she says because of
unexpected visitors. And I'll bet they’re
the sort you look at and they leap!”
❖ ❖ *l*
“0.W.W.”: Someone who reads The
Bulletin in Masterton (N.Z.) Public
Library, loves to put deep pencil-rings
round “Society” and “Abo.” pars that
please him. Several times, over the years,
I've noticed he has done me the honor,
but 1 don’t know if I should feel flattered
after seeing what he has written below
a par. in the issue of Feb. 24: "Not
bad. Smutto.”
“HE ALSO SERVES..."
“Waiters in high-class hotels and nightclubs
need many attributes, but tactfulness is now
recognised as the prime one. The cultivation
of this in their training has had good results.”
—lndustrial magazine.
When a gargon catches sight
Of a diner sore perplexed
At Gallic-worded menu he is scan-
ning.
He will quickly see the light.
Seizing on some slight pretext.
Ihe space between ’em he’ll be
promptly spanning.
Then with suave gentility
He’ll anticipate a wish,
And, confident in knowledge com-
prehensive,
With superb diplomacy
He will recommend a dish
Which, you can bet, will be the most
expensive.
A keen and well-tuned ear
Is a gift he must possess
Along with others, such as powers
mnemonic ;
You need never hold a fear
That the cause he'll fail to guess
When sound comes to him that is
cacophonic.
Sleuthing round, he’ll quickly pin
Down the discord: consomme
Surped-up with gusto by some noisy
diner.
To the band he’ll slide ; within
Seconds all is well, as they
Switch pronto to a piece that’s in
C Minor !
He must cultivate the touch
That is delicacy itself
To prove his mastery of the pro-
fession.
Nought reveals this quite so much
As his handling of the pelf
Which at the meal’s end comes to
his possession.
His diplomacy, you’ll allow.
Is best seen as he’ll arrange
His silver tray with quite a tidy
sum on,
And he makes his little bow
While the patron takes the change,
And ten-bob note he tactfully keeps
his thumb on.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Death ot a “Sanctuary”
By ALEC CHISHOLM
Anyone who desires to render a
service to native birds, through
the medium of a sanctuary, would
do well to meditate on the case
of R. J. D. Sellar, concerning which
judgment has now been delivered by the
Full High Court of Australia.
Sellar, a retired grazier and a bachelor,
conceived in 1932 the idea of establishing
“The Sellar Sanctuary for Birds,” and
to this end he bequeathed an area over-
looking Manly Beach (N.S.W.), together
with two cottages upon it, to the Royal
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals. Additionally, he made £lO,OOO
available for investment, with instruc-
tions that the income from this amount
should be paid to the R.S.P.C.A. so
long as it observed certain conditions
governing control of the “Sanctuary.”
The conditions were set out in detail
in the deed of trust. They included nor-
mal requirements such as keeping of
the property in good condition, payment
of rates, the meeting of general costs
of maintenance, and the employment of
a manager.
But —and here came a novelty—the
beneficiary was required also to “permit
and encourage all Australian native
birds, including in particular native
doves,” to drink at a fountain in the
yard ; and, as well, it was directed that
“all visiting birds” must be fed three
times daily (at stated hours) “with such
quantity of wheat, grain, and/or seed
as shall be sufficient to fully and properly
feed at each of such times all such visit-
ing birds . ..” Meanwhile, the feathered
visitors were to be kept “free from the
molestation of man or any kind of
animal.”
In the event of the R.S.P.C.A. failing
in these obligations, the benefactor
decreed that both capital and income
were to pass, in trust, to the Benevolent
Society of New South Wales.
Sellar died in 1934, and ever since—■
during at least 24 years the
R.S.P.C.A. appears to have striven
valiantly to fulfil the curious conditions
imposed upon it. Then, in 1958, the
Benevolent Society somehow developed
the impression that it could acquire the
property, and so it took legal action,
claiming that the R.S.P.C.A. had failed
to meet its obligations. At the same
time three residuary beneficiaries in the
Sellar estate claimed that the whole of
the trust was invalid.
The matter came before Mr. Justice
Hardie in the Equity Court. There a
formidable batch of barristers proved
themselves to be much more learned in
the law of the land than they were in
the lore of birds, and, also, much more
familiar with legal jargon than they were
with simple bird-names such as (say)
A canthorhynchus tenuirostris.
Having been invited by the R.S.P.C.A.
to give evidence from the ornithological
aspect, I went to Manly and inspected
the “Sellar Sanctuary,” and as a result
I was bound to tell the court that the
land was not at all well suited for its
purpose. It was not, and probably never
had been, an area frequented by “native
doves," and, as it was in a growing street
and had most of its space occupied by
its two houses, the provision of “wheat,
grain, and/or seed” was unlikely to
attract any birds other than scavengers
such as English sparrows, domestic
pigeons, and Indian doves.
Mr. Justice Hardie ruled against the
sparrows. Likewise, he saw no virtue
in the feeding of introduced pigeons and
doves. He therefore held that the trust
in favor of the R.S.P.C.A. was invalid
because the public did not benefit from
it, and he found that the claim of the
Benevolent Society also failed. Conse-
quently, the property reverted to the
estate for distribution among three
residuary legatees.
Both the R.S.P.C.A. and the
Benevolent Society appealed against this
decision. The appeal was heard by the
Full High Court in Sydney last Septem-
ber, and here again men learned in the
law—five judges .and ten barristers—
found themselves in something of an
ornithological tangle. One judge, for
example, wanted to know what consti-
tuted a “visiting” bird. Another, noting
Sellar’s direction beneficiary
should “permit and encourage all Aus-
tralian native birds” to share in his
bounty, wondered whether the ex-grazier
really meant what he said—whether he
desired the encouragement to be ex-
tended to eagles.
Finally, in a reserved judgment
delivered recently, in Melbourne, the
High Court upheld the Hardie decision,
ruling that the trust was not for charit-
able purposes and that it did not operate
for the public benefit.
Co, then, the “Sellar Sanctuary for
Birds” is no more. Actually it never
was a reservation of the kind that Sellar
appears to have had in mind. He, it is
clear, was fond of birds but knew little
about them, so that he supposed an
introduced dove to be a native, and also
had the odd idea that birds generally
would be attracted by wheat spread in
a suburban backyard.
In any event, the situation and small
size of the area rendered it practically
negative as a sanctuary for native birds,
and so, if the donor’s purpose was to be
fulfilled, the land and houses should
have been sold and a useful reservation
established elsewhere,
Sellar, in fact, made provision for that
to be done He hjs trustee and h
RSP C A »»»“ «« se " < he P™P««y.
" ?°“ Sht T* USe ' he , Pr °'
ceeds to purchase another property or
properties, suitable for the purpose for
which the Sanctuary shall theretofore
have been used. Instead of doing this
( as an Y ornithologist would certainly
have advised), the R.S.P.C.A. continued
resolutely, during almost a quarter-
century, to act as host to generation after
generation of feathered ragamuffins,
Anyway, salute to Sellar’s memory,
He made, at least, an admirable gesture,
How was he to know that his bounty
would resolve largely into a feast for
sparrows, pigeons, and lawyers? And,
after all, it may be that his “Sanctuary”
will render native birds a rather better
service in its passing than it did in life,
Australia needs more, many more,
refuges for wildlife, and it seems prob-
able that the Sellar’s case will serve as
a general stimulus, at the same time
indicating what methods should and
should not be adopted in such matters.


POLITICAL POINTS
Saturday’s Federal by - elections
brought no surprises. Latrobe, after
the distribution of preferences, will
remain a Liberal seat and Hunter has
been easily retained by Labor.
On Monday the score in Latrobe was
Jess (Lib.), 21,728; Martyr (D.L.P.),
6637 ; Murray (Republican), 369;
Pritchard (Labor), 22,506. There were
still about 2000 votes to come, but the
proportions had stayed pretty constant
throughout the count, so Pritchard will
probably have a final lead in primaries
of 700 votes. Conceding him most of
Murray’s preferences, he will still need
about 42 per cent, of D.L.P. candidate
Martyr’s preferences. If the 1958 elec-
tion is any guide, he can’t expect more
than 20 per cent. —the D.L.P. how-to-
vote card placed John Jess second, and
when the final tally goes-up the Liberal
man should have 3000 votes to spare.
In Hunter the progress score was
A. W. James (Labor), 21,473; Brown
(Ind.), 11,641 ; Dumbrell (Com.), 3815 ;
Murnane (Ind.), 805.
• •
If Mao grabs Mt. Everest it’ll be
impossible to hold real Summit talks
without him.
• •
The attempted assassination of Prime
Minister Verwoerd by an apparently
deranged farmer of British race will not
help the South African situation any
more than the ill-advised encourage-
ment of sympathisers with the natives
who know little or nothing of the local
circumstances. It will only harden the
stand of the supporters of apartheid and
make the Union Government even more
intolerant of shows of force and resis-
tance by natives and their friends. Had
Verwoerd been killed the outcome might
have been utterly tragic.
• •
The G.P.O. has offered telephone-
users a new telephone-cord which
stretches to about six times its length.
Presumably it’s designed to typify the
department’s charges.
• o
Russian tactics at the disarmament
conference have run true to form shown
a hundred times over in the last fifteen
years. First agree to something that
looks handsome, then put forward some-
thing to which nobody can agree and
which makes the first offer withdrawable.
This time it produced a snag in the shape
of a plan, described as made -up
of “sweeping, meaningless outworn
slogans,” for complete disarmament in
four years—which it knew to be quite
impracticable because of the details.
Both sides have now rejected the other’s
plans even as a starting-point.
• •
Victorian Liberals have approved the
Cabinet plan for off-course cash-totes
throughout the State. Betting in Spring
Street is that Labor, which helped to
reject the last bill because it provided
only for credit-betting, will support the
new one ; ditto the Country party.
Bolte, an owner and a keen, modest
punter, is reported to have his whip
out to get the tote cracking by the 1960
Melbourne Centenary Cup.
• •
that the Commonwealth Bank
may buy Young and Jackson’s has
raised fears as to the future of “Chloe.”
There’s no need to worry. As a patron
of arts and figures, bank-gov. Coombs
will be bound to see that she’s com-
fortably housed. We may yet see Chloe
on our banknotes.
• •
Some political writers had suggested
that with Arthur Calwell, a Roman
Catholic, leading the Labor party (and
with two of his three lieutenants also
of that faith) the D.L.P. vote in Latrobe
might show a decline. Instead the vote
rose from 4963 in 1958 to 6637 (with
more to come) on Saturday.
1 * *
Queensland Transport Minister Chalk,
in warning the Country-party conference
that rail freights would be reviewed after
the State election and that it might be
found necessary to make some increases,
was at least being honest. Some of his
neighbors have been known to go to
the polls denying most heatedly any in*
tention of raising fares and freights;
then after the election they’ve suddenly
discovered to their amazement that an
increase is necessary. Queenslanders
won’t be able to complain that they
weren’t warned.
• •
Last week’s political top-score went
to John Jess, Liberal candidate in the
Latrobe by-election. When he was chal-
lenged by the A.L.P. candidate to a
debate on the Federal Government’s
stand on the South African situation, he
began:
I have long admired your party’s
courage and vocal efforts on the problems
of countries far distant and its apparent
unconcern for the closer problems of
Communist unions, unity tickets, the
sectarian issue, etc
Jess went on to amplify, but that just
about summed it up.
• •
Cairns W. Villeneuve Smith, the third
lawyer who acted in Adelaide for the
aboriginal, Max Stuart, has now trans-
ferred to Victoria. He was admitted
to practice by the State Full Court last
week. Last month J. D. O'Sullivan, who
defended Stuart, and his instructing
solicitor, Helen Devaney, were admitted
to practice in Victoria.
• •
“Stromlo”: Good ideas at times come
from the Senate, the members of that
august Chamber having plenty of time
for thinking during the 300-odd days
each year they don't meet. The latest
is a suggestion by Labor Senator
Dorothy Tangney that the name of Sir
Robert Garran should be perpetuated
in the naming of some suburb, building,
street or avenue in Canberra. She made
some other suggestions, but the Garran
one was the best. She said, rightly, that
no one had done more than Sir Robert
for the development of the federal
system, and of Canberra.
JUNGLE DRUMS


IN protest against France’s second
nuclear test in the Sahara, Ghana has
withdrawn its Ambassador from Paris.
It will be interesting to see if the
de Gaulle regime can survive the blow.
• •
Red China waited less than a fortnight
after signing an agreement with the
Prime Minister of Nepal to the effect
that the boundary between the two coun-
tries would be determined in a friendly
way on the basis of “the existing tradi-
tional customary line,” before staking a
claim to Mt. Everest. The claim wasn’t
altogether one-sided. After grabbing the
mountain Peking will apparently restore
its original name.
The claim comes on the eve of talks
between Chou En-lai and Indian Prime
Minister Nehru. The latter’s comment
is that China seems to think it can legi-
timately claim any territory that at any
time in history fell under Chinese rule.
He says that by the same reasoning
Rome could claim the United Kingdom.
Chou would probably agree—provided
the name Britannia was revived to make
the transaction legal.
• •
Canberra expects taxation buoyancy
to result in much of the budgeted deficit
of £6l million being eliminated. So
far tax - collections, Customs - dues and
particularly sales-tax income are well
ahead of normal. And wonder of
wonders —Government spending is below
what was expected at this stage. No
report so far of the Treasurer declaring
a bonus-issue to shareholders.
• •
Seven-hundred delegates to the Vic-
torian Country - party conference at
Warrnambool passed five resolutions
dealing with inflation. These urged the
Federal Government to control interest-
rates, profits and wages —but not prices.
• 0
Tripovich, State secretary of the Vic-
torian A.L.P., stated during the Latrobe
campaign that the Victorian branch
would not debate the unity-ticket issue
with the D.L.P. because Labor was a
political party which “could not act as
policeman for affiliated organisations or
discipline unions in respect of their elec-
tions.” This is rubbish. ‘ The A.L.P. can
cancel the affiliations of unions which
associate with Communists and it can
expel A.L.P. union heads who do the
same. But then, of course, the expelled
unions and leaders would cease to expel
any of their funds into the A.L.P. coffers
and there might be no A.L.P.
# 0
On four occasions the Australian
satellite-tracking station at Woomera had
been the first in the world to get a photo-
graph of man-made, satellites in orbit,
Supply Minister Hulme told the House
of Representatives. These successes were
Atlas (1958), Vanguard II (1959), Ex-
plorer VI (1959) and Explorer VI (1959).
In the last six months of last year 435
passages of satellites were photographed
at Woomera and for that period the U.S.
National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration credited Woomera with 51 per
cent, successful photos. Next-best station
scored 46 per cent, and the average score
was 30 per cent.
• •
Tn its issue with the controversial Dobell
•*- picture of Menzies on the cover,
“Time” news-magazine (U.S.A.) had an
article dealing with Menzies and Aus-
tralia generally. It finished with a
reference to “Menzian rhetoric which
many countrymen find highfalutin and
which a few years ago prompted a
Sydney newspaper cartoonist to quote,
under the caption, ‘What Bob Menzies
Really Meant,’ four lines from Aus-
tralia’s dialect poet, C. J. Dennis:
Fellers of Australier,
Blokes an’ cores and coots,
Shift y’r bloody carcasses,
Move y’r bloody boots!”
The cartoon was from The Bulletin
of January 9, 1952. Here it is (likeness
of Menzies by Ted Scorfield).
“Ailsey”: Western N.S.W. coalfield
pits are feeling the effects of a policy
that is reversing the old trend of “taking
coals to Newcastle.” Orange and
Bathurst gasworks are bringing coal
from Newcastle, even though the
Western field is only 34 miles from
Bathurst and 80 from Orange. Bathurst
and Orange City Councils, which run
gasworks, claim that northern (New-
castle) coal, which has to come more
than 200 miles, is better for gas-making
than western. The western seam has
a reputation of being “dirty,” and has
a higher ash-content than Newcastle
coal. But the biggest pit on the western
field, the State mine at Lithgow, is meet-
ing the challenge. It plans to install a
coal-washing plant, costing nearly
£35,000. Lithgow City Council offered
recently to buy 3000 tons of State-mine
coal a year for gas-making provided it
was washed and had as low an ash-con-
tent as a sample supplied.
• •
Fast on the heels of the announce-
ment that Ampol, H. C. Sleigh and Cal-
tex had agreed on a joint venture to
build a lubricating-oil refinery at Kurnell,
on Botany Bay, at a cost of about £l2
million, British Petroleum broke the
news of plans to build a similar refinery
at a site yet to be decided. Between
them the two refineries should be able
to handle most of Australia’s require-
ments of lubricants.
• •
“P.0.M.C.”: In London to Ladysmith,
after many discussions with Boers
around 60 years ago, Winston Churchill,
war-correspondent, wrote:
“Is it right,” a Boer said to me, “that
a dirty Kaffir should walk on the pave-
ment—without a pass, too? That's what
they do in your British colonies. Brother!
Equal! Ugh! Free! Not a bit. We
know how to treat Kaffirs!” What is the
true and original root of Dutch aversion
to British rule? It is the abiding fear
and hatred of the movement that seeks to
place the native on a level with the white
man. British Government is associated in
the Boer farmer’s mind with violent social
revolution. Black is to be proclaimed
the same as white. The servant is to be
raised against the master; the Kaffir is to
be declared the brother of the European,
to be constituted his legal equal, to be
armed with political rights. The dominant
race is to be deprived of their superiority;
nor is a tigress robbed of her cubs more
furious than is the Boer at this prospect.
In view of unhappy events current in
South Africa, mightn’t this substantially
have been written yesterday?
• •
“Mugga Way”: Just what is “libel”
as compared with “slander”? In my
young newspaper days we were taught
that libel should be applied to the written
word and slander to the spoken, but
newspapers recently have been full of
talk of “libel” suits based on remarks
alleged to have been said by a Cabinet
Minister in a private party meeting.
Apart from any other aspects of the
case, what charge should lie against those
colleagues of the Minister who carried
the reports, whether true or false, to
the ears and typewriters of the Press
Gallery?
• •
For sheer hypocrisy Dr. Cairns’s “re-
buke” to the Government for talking
of the danger of war and continuing
to disarm earned the leather medal, but
it was quickly taken away from him
by E. J. Ward, who chided the Govern-
ment for neglect of nuclear weapons and
for the ineffectiveness of Australia’s little
force in South-east Asia. It was the same
Ward who once told Parliament he
wouldn’t fight against anyone, even
Hitler, and who voted against sending
the militia to war-time New Guinea and
opposed war-time compulsory service.


Personal
ITEMS
Guest-speaker at the conference of
Red Cross branches in Sydney, Dr.
Geoffrey Newman-Morris has followed
in the steps of his father (noted surgeon
Sir John Newman-Morris) as national
chairman of the Australian Red Cross
Society. Honorary surgeon at Prince
Henry’s Hospital, Melbourne, and medi-
cal officer to the Victorian Police, he
was lieut.-colonel in charge of the surgi-
cal division of the 2/7th A.G.H. in
War 11. He’s just back from a tour of
Canada, America, England and Greece,
on which, as Australian representative
on the board of governors of the League
of Red Cross Societies, he attended the
league’s 25th session, held in Athens.
• •
“Geekay”: This year A. J. Hill, of
Kalgoorlie, is celebrating the 60th anni-
versary of his arrival in Westralia to
start a long association with mining. In
1900 Richard Hamilton, of the Great
Boulder Mine, ordered 12 Edwards fur-
naces from Ballarat, and at the same time
the three Moss brothers launched a gold-
recovery works with an Edwards furnace
as part of its equipment. Young Jack
Hill—lB when he came across from Vic-
toria —had already had experience with
these furnaces in Ballarat, and, as well,
now knew a lot about the cyanide pro-
cess, so he was the natural choice to
work the plant and seemed always to
have the right answers. He went to
many outlying districts and did some
mining himself in various famous locali-
ties. Over a good stretch of years since
then he has taken an active hand in the
Prospectors’ Association, as delegate to
the executive and vice-president of the
Kalgoorlie branch.
• •
“Joanne”: After nearly 50 years in
banking, Mick Carey, of the Common-
wealth Bank at Hamilton (N.S.W.), is
signing-off. Before going to Hamilton
he was for many years manager at May-
field, and he likes the Hunter country
so much —he’s been there 25 years—that
he’ll spend his retirement there.
• •
“Benbow”: Colonel William Frederick
Ryan, of Cairns (B. 30/3/’6O), had a
motor-business in Melbourne before
1939 and wrote-off £20,000 of debts due
to him when he went away to War 11.
He lost a lot of money in backing his
ideas, but made a good deal more.
Thirty-thousand pounds went west when
he tried to establish a factory in Cairns
to manufacture buttons from local pearl-
shell instead of exporting it to the U.S.A.
He established a small coastal shipping-
company with the schooner Yalata.
When she was lost, uninsured, on Cape
Melville five years ago Ryan saw £19,000
go with her. In 1946 he recognised the
need for a precision-engineering work-
shop in the North, bought an old soft-
drink factory and converted it with
machinery of such capacity that it
attracted work from all over North
Queensland and New Guinea. And,
among other things that might be listed,
he was a director of Mitchell Airways,
which flew small aircraft between out-
back stations.
LENNOX WALKER, whose long-range
weather forecasts are a weekly feature of
“Man on the Land," joined Croham-
hurst Observatory ( Q .), as assistant to the
late Inigo Jones in 1953 and took-over
the post of Research Director at the close
of 1954.
Elected Victorian State president of
the Australian Society of Accountants,
C. K. Davies ranks as Assistant Secretary
(Supply) of the Department of Supply,
is deputy-chairman of the Contracts
Board, and also has the post of Director
of Contracts. Before his election he was
State vice-president and a member and
hon. treasurer of the General Council.
• •
Arrived in Sydney for a six-weeks
visit to Australia, arranged and financed
by Unesco, John Allen, 8.8. C. producer
and writer, will be attached to the staff
of the National Institute of Dramatic
Art at the University of N.S.W. An
authority on drama in education, he was
for five years producer and administrator
of the Glyndebourne (Eng.) Children’s
Theatre, as well as leaching at the Old
Vic Theatre School and at the London
Theatre Studio under Michel St. Denis,
and writing sundry books about drama,
among them Going to the Theatre. He
will work for some weeks at the National
Institute of Dramatic Art, then with the
A.B.C. and with Education Departments
in all States.
• •
“Jock”: New head of C.5.1.R.0/s
Division of Entomology, Dr. Douglas F.
Waterhouse, who succeeds Dr. A. J.
Nicholson, graduated from Sydney Uni-
versity and served with the A.A.M.C.
in War 11. He became a Fellow of the
Australian Academy of Science in 1954,
and in 1958 was an Australian delegate
to the World Health Organisation
seminar that was looking into resistance
to insecticides.
• • •
“Maitri”: Former president of the
N.S.W. Benevolent Association, Philip
Hurditch recalls that as a young man
he attended classes for youthful ministers
and lay-preachers conducted by Dr. C. H.
Spurgeon in - the London Tabernacle.
Spurgeon would read a passage of Scrip-
ture in his inimitable dramatic style and
then select members of the class to read
the same piece; when all had been
tried-out, then came the criticism. One
afternoon one of the readers gave out
the passage with such fire and sincerity
that Hurditch never forgot it. At a
united church gathering half-a-century
later in Sydney Dr. C. J. Tinsley (B.
30/3 / ’6O) read the lesson and he recog-
nised him at once as the reader who had
so impressed him at Spurgeon's Taber-
nacle.
Hurditch himself is connected by
marriage with another orator-clergyman,
being the son-in-law of Llewellyn David
Bevan, who, during a long ministry, was
pastor of four famous churches—the
King’s Weighhouse Chapel (founded in
the reign of Charles I) and the Highbury
Quadrant, in London, the Brick Pres-
byterian, New York, and the Collins
Street Independent Church, Melbourne.
Nearly 40 years ago Dr. Bevan died in
harness, as first principal of Parkin Col-
lege, Adelaide, the first Congregational
theological college in Australia.
• •
The Services Canteens Trust Fund
post-graduate scholarship for 1960 goes
to Dr. R. J. Millington, of Adelaide,
whose father was a flying-officer in the
R.A.A.F. during War 11. Dr. Millington
graduated in science at Sydney Univer-
sity and was awarded a doctorate of
agricultural science at the Adelaide Uni
He’s at present senior lecturer in
agronomy at the Waite Institute. The.
scholarship will allow him to continue
his studies in the U.S.A., Canada and
Europe, joining the 7th International
Congress of Soil Science in Madison,
Winsconsin, as part of his programme.
• •
“R.R.D.”: Guy Arnold —his Long-
house and Jungle has been reviewed on
the “Red Page”—writes from Ontario
(Canada), where he is at present a school-
master : “In a few months I hope to take
a small expedition into the jungles of
British Guiana. I have booked a lecture-
tour in Canada for November, 1960, hope
to be in Africa in 1961, and in '62 or ’63


shall reach Australia. I am an enthusiast
for the British Commonwealth and
believe its potential is unlimited, given
the right leadership.” One day in 1954
Arnold, then an Oxford undergraduate,
was shown into my basha-office in Singa-
pore. His forceful but practical en-
thusiasm for the proposed expedition to
Sarawak impressed me considerably.
There were enough difficulties ahead of
him to put the ordinary man off
altogether, but he seemed to take them all
in his stride. We met some months later
in London, and he then outlined the
plans he had made to overcome the
predictable difficulties that faced him.
It isn't often you meet a young man
who can recognise the cloud of dust
that he’ll have to swallow on his way
to gain the palm, and who also has the
nous to think-out beforehand the
avoiding-action that he can take —
explorers of any age are often rather
fond of chancing their arm on sketchy
preparations. Guy Arnold’s planning apd
leadership made this first expedition a
success. In those days, too, he was talk-
ing about the potential of the British
Commonwealth, of which he seems to be
becoming a useful citizen.
• •
When serving with the 55th Field
Battery in France during War I, Kenneth
Valentine Chapman saved the life of a
German who had been badly wounded
in a trench-raid and was lying in No
Man’s Land, bleeding to death from a
severed arm. On a business-trip in Ger-
many a few years ago Chapman was'
WOOLMAN
in a railway-carriage when a one-armed
German, whose face seemed familiar,
got in. As soon as he saw Chapman,
the German paused in astonishment and
then came forward to shake his hand.
Chapman -recognised the man whose
life he had saved so long ago. The Ger-
man was able to give Chapman consider-
able help during his business-trip.
Born in Albury (N.S.W.), K. V.
Chapman came to Sydney after War I,
and has been in the wool business ever
since, except for the fime he took off
in War II to go back to the Guns as a
major. He founded and is chairman of
the firm which bears his name.
• •
Ted Maslen, Westralia’s 1956 Rhodes
Scholar, has just come home from
Oxford, where he was one of a team
working on the development of Cephal-
osporib C —it’s claimed to be better in
some respects than penicillin. He will
continue work on new types of peni-
cillin and on a new antibiotic that’s
expected to overcome staph.
• •
There’s no more Labor and National
Service (not until there has been a long
spell, at least) for Nicholas O’Heare, who
has retired from the regional director-
ship of the department and was fare-
welled by about 100 senior active and
retired Commonwealth public servants
in Victoria.
He was, of course, quite a power in
the manpower days, and he could, he
tells The Bulletin, write a book about
the characters who passed through the
office in those days. The one he never
forgets is the first.
The branch was moving from one
floor in the Century Building in-Swan-
ston Street to another floor, and some
of the staff had gone back to work on
Saturday afternoon to help with their
own manpower problem.
Into their midst wandered “a New
Australian sort of bloke” to make in-
quiries about work. “Get hold of the
end of that table,” said one n’lember of
the staff, and he did, and, so the story
goes, Lord knows how many other tables.
• m
“Beroo”: Dr. D. O. Norris, winner
of the 1960 Agricultural Science Medal
of the Australian Institute of Agricul-
tural Science, is one of the senior scien-
tists at the C.5.1.R.0.’s Cunningham
Laboratory in Brisbane. Now 44, he has
been in Queensland only six years, but
links directly with the State from a good
deal further back: his grandfather was
the first State-school teacher at Mackay
(1871). Dr. Norris’s father, in Burns
Philp at Normanton in its heyday, was
transferred to Geraldton (W.A.), the son
graduating at the West’s University in
1938 and there later collecting M.Sc.
and D.Sc.
• •
Meet an oil - drilling contractor,
Herschel Albert Hackathorn, here from
Colorado. President and director of
Hackathorn Oil Australia, Ltd., he has
had wide oil experience in the U.S.,
where he drills about 100,000 ft. of hole
a year, operating in Wyoming, Colorado,
Kentucky, Oklahoma and Texas, and
owning altogether more than 40 pro-
ducing wells. He’s a hard worker —apt
to start at 7 a.m. and end at midnight.
His grandfather, formerly an Ohio river-
boat captain, worked in the early days
of the oil-business in West Virginia and
Pennsylvania, while his father pioneered
oilfields from West Virginia to Cali-
fornia and built the first gasoline-plants
for the Texas Co. in Oklahoma to supply
aircraft-fuel in War I.
Hackathorn states his aim definitely:
to discover a major oil-province, and
OILMAN
he's prepared to spend his time and
money realising that ambition. He has
taken-up leases in the Murray River
basin, because, he says, small American
oilmen are bottlenecked in their own
country for lack of markets. Looking
for a place where he could expand—
where there are ready markets, a friendly
Government and friendly people —he
chose Australia as meeting all those con-
ditions. Up to date he’s doing fine.
• •
Into the Silence: —-
In Kuala Lumpur, at 64, Tuanku Sir Abdul
. Rahman Ibni Almorhum Tuanku Muhamnred,
G.C.M.G., Yang di-Pertuan Agong (paramount
ruler) of Malaya.
In Pnompenh, at 65, Norodom Sumarit, King
of Cambodia.
In Hob’art, at 74, W. E. Fuller, bookseller,
pioneer radio personality, amateur actor, and
one of the founders of Hob'art Repertory
Theatre Society. He was past-president of the
Booksellers’ Association in Tasmania and a
former vice-president of the Australian Book-
sellers’ Association.
In Napier, at 71, Norman A. McKenzie,
0.8. E., one of N.Z.’s greatest Rugby personali-
ties, as writer and raconteur, selector-coach
and administrator.
In Sydney, at 57, Eric Thomas Anderson,
chairman of directors of Eric Anderson Radio
Television Pty., Ltd.
In Sydney, at 78, Russell McDonald Wight,
who managed Melba’s first concert in the
Sydney Town Hall, established what is believed
to have been Australia’s first drive-in theatre
(at Dubbo, N.S.W., in the early 1900’s) and
showed the first color-and-talkie film in
Australia (1911).
In Sydney, at 83, Sir Graham Waddell,
grazier, stock-breeder and company-director,
and former N. S. Wales M.L.C. In younger
days he was president of the N.S.W. Graziers’
Association, chairman of the Woolgrowers’
Council, and vice-president of the R.A.S.


ABORIGINALITIES
Maxie, the young stockman, and Paul,
the jackeroo, were the station’s
experimenters and practical-jokers, and
among other novelties they had installed
a hosepipe speaking-tube between their
respective rooms. Maxie, having brought-
in a kangaroo he had shot for the dogs,
got an idea. He ran a length of hose-
pipe from the ’roo, which he’d dumped
under the clothesline, around the corner
of the homestead and covered it with
sandy soil. Then Paul hooked a length
of fine wire to the ’roo’s ear, threw it
over the clothesline and trailed the rest
of it around to Maxie’s hideout. Just
on sundown, Frankie, the young abo.
hand, rode in, and Maxie asked him
to skin the ’roo. As Frankie bent down
to take hold of the ’roo’s paw Paul
jerked its head up and a voice said:
“You skin me, you blankard, and me
brother’ll rip you up!” With a blood-
curdling yell Frankie dropped his knife
and streaked into the dusk. He must
“ Quack's not too bad on the crawl-stroke."
have moted, too, for next day they found
him hiding at the abos.’ camp outside
the town, 30 miles away.—“Enbee.”
* * * *
“Casca”: Cupid shoots as many arrows
in New Guinea as any bush kanaka, and
so, when big Jack met little Jill, Cupid
pranged ’em both. The romance de-
veloped according to the pattern of
stories in the women’s papers in that
there was an obstacle—merely that Jack
already had a wife somewhere and Jill
a husband. They overcame the obstacle
in typical New Guinea fashion, by ignor-
ing it. So now Jill flashes an engage-
ment-ring, although even in this tropical
paradise it is a bit unusual for two
married people to become publicly en-
gaged.
“Jasmine”: “Yair,” said Bill in answer
to my query, “there are two families
o’ Clarks in this districk, one with the
he on, and one with the he off.”
* * * *
“N.A.8.”: Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.)
has a tree through the centre of which
run telegraph-wires—the only one of its
kind, it is claimed, in Australia. When
the line was going through what was
then Kinross station the owner objected
to the tree being felled, so the P.M.G.
adopted this compromise. Occasionally
linesmen trim the central branches. The
tree has been known for years as the
“doughnut-tree,” and it does look like
a huge doughnut. Kinross, of 2500
acres, originally a grant to the Graham
family, was acquired by the late Archi-
bald Windeyer when he arrived from
England in 1838. In that year he built
the stone homestead which is still in a
good state of preservation. The Win-
deyers still occupy the property, which,
however, has been reduced to 470 acres
by successive sales of land to the
Masonite Corporation and, latterly, to
Courtaulds, Ltd.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: The meeting of inter-
national scientists and naturalists
gathered in Sydney to discuss dangerous
and poisonous sea-creatures closed with-
out an invitation, to the general public
to ask questions. Pity, because here’s
one bloke who’d like to know the answer
to a problem about bluebottles. Last
year a bluey wrapped its long stinging
thread around me just above the trunks
and across one hand. It stung a little,
but not enough to interrupt my surfing,
and a couple of hours later the pain was
completely gone. This year a ’bottle
momentarily. wound around both my
legs just above the knee and drifted off
before I had time to detach it. With
memories of the other sting I didn’t
bother to get treatment. That night I
awoke with the sensation of scores of
mosquitoes sinking red-hot stings home.
The legs were encircled with weals where
the tentacle had wound. Not even that
old standby the bluebag would ease
the burning irritation, and eight days
later a hot sun on the lumps would
stir them to new tortures. Now, why
the difference between the two blue-
bottle-stings? A snakebite, of course,
can be less venomous if Joe has just
previously used his fangs ; but I can’t
see that any such explanation could
apply to an impregnated tentacle trailing
in the sea.
* * * *
“Wire-buster”: The big meat-ant was
hauling its prize across a bare patch in
the lawn when a black-and-gold wasp
landed a few inches away. The toiler
dropped his burden and put his dooks
up to the wasp. A spot of futile shadow-
sparring followed ; then the two-tone
job shot off, climbed for altitude, paused
at about Bft., and came down in a
power-dive almost too quick for the eye.
A brief pause, a beating of wings, then
the wasp rose slowly, flew laboriously
some 10yds. away, dropped the ant,
returned to the prey on the bare patch
of ground, and picked it up and made
off. The ant circled in the grass for a
moment or two, seemed to regather its
shaken thoughts, then it suddenly re-
membered an urgent appointment else-
where.
* * *
“Billy”: Add to “Ceg’s” list of ill-
fated Loch liners (B. 16/3/’6O) the Loch
Ryan, another of “the splendid vessels of
the Glasgow Shipping Company, other-
wise the Loch line. .As a fleet the
finest iron vessels to be found anywhere,
and they held their own against the
steam cargo-vessels longer than any
other” (quotation from R. A. Fletcher’s
In the Days of the Tall Ships). Yet,
as “C.” shows, they took a battering.
One of Loch Ryan’s slowest trips was
in 1887. Becalmed for three weeks off
the Cape of Good Hope the passengers
amused themselves by tying the wooden
spool to the end of a reel of linen thread,
tossing it overboard with a few scraps,
and when the Cape-“pigeons” (petrels)
had their feet properly tangled in the
thread, hauling them aboard. That, and
the regular plum-pudding every Sunday,


*
DoRRy Sir. , SoT you wer£
38-9 miles PtR. HOUR, //V A
fzesrtzi ere p ar.£a . f *
(IIzLL j wny Pont you Catch
dOMC OF THOSE OTHCR.S p
—' Th eyk.£ Auu Qoic^o
e-ffe A
T 7 FASTER. THAtm ME.
* \ .
j)^S / Bur you'&je th£ o/M<_y
ONE we couup CATCH .


plus a few frills on the menu when any-
one had a birthday, and the privilege of
a dress-circle seat in a lifeboat when the
cook killed a pig, and the youngsters
aboard—among them my mother, then
aged nine—wouldn’t have cared if they
had remained becalmed for ever ; but
the storm that followed kept them
battened-down for a fortnight. Round
about 19 ID the Loch Ryan was sold to
the Victorian Government as a training-
ship—today it would be a corrective-
institution and renamed the John
Murray. Thereafter, whenever there
were unpleasant references to our
presence in orchards on the way home
from school, we were also assured that
a berth on the John Murray awaited
us —a prospect that thrilled rather than
scared us, the stupid Government not
having had the sense to choose some
windjammer other than the beautiful
ship on whose stories and chanties we
had been brought-up. She ended her
voyaging eventually on a reef in the
Pacific.
* * * *
“Bulla”: Allow me to come in while
the coconuts are falling. In New Guinea
(December, 1942) we had the remains
of a few hundred Nips bottled-up in
a small plantation at Gona Mission, and
a few of us were told to put on a
bayonet-charge to winkle them out;
when several of our chaps were cut-down
by cross-fire the rest of us promptly
went to grass. We settled down as com-
fortably as possible until our masters
thought things out, and a loud-voiced
conversation was carried on from tree
to tree. Suddenly there was a resound-
ing clang to my right, and one of our
chaps slumped like a chook with sun-
stroke. For a second or so I thought
he’d stopped one; then I noticed a
king-sized coconut rolling along several
yards from him, his tin-hat upside-down
nearby. It was a perfect drop-shot.
When he showed no signs of returning
to consciousness a couple of blokes were
detailed to drag him back to the M.O.
I copped a slug that night, so never
heard how he got on ; but his tin-lid
probably saved him from a broken head.
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: Along Deakin Avenue in
Mildura a neatly-clipped lawn beneath
a palm-tree is composed almost com-
pletely of young palms.
* * * *
“Rangitaiki”: Eight years ago at Coro-
mandel, a small town on N.Z.’s Hauraki
Gulf, a hospital-porter found a baby eel
caught behind a grill in the creek that
runs through the hospital-grounds. He
freed it and began throwing scraps of
food to it. As it grew the eel was joined
by others, which shared in the hand-out.
Today, surprisingly tame, they are an
attraction for visitors. Three years ago
a girl on the staff took over ; now, at
the sound of her footsteps at feeding-
time, the eels come out from behind
stones and under the banks to eat from
her fingers.
TC ddie, boring for water for the Wapet
oil people up in Shothole Canyon,
about 15 miles from Learmonth in the
Exmouth Gulf area, made it a practice
to take a weekend break in Learmonth,
returning on Monday morning with his
faithful hound. For a day or two after
they’d feed well on fresh meat, but
when that cut-out and Eddie reached for
the tin-opener, the pooch would put his
paw down. Next morning he’d be
missing. Allergic to meat in tinned form,
he'd plod the 15 miles back to where he
could find the fresh variety. He always
travelled at night to avoid the searing heat
trapped by the canyon walls.—“ Pat
Decroesus.”
* # * *
“Crow Eater”: An art killed by
modern farming-methods is the thatch-
ing of hayricks. Some fine specimens
used to be seen years ago in Victoria,
“ Razor-blades , sir ?”
where the completed ricks were adorned
with straw ornaments set along the ridge.
In the paddocks of one district you could
see tall, shapely ricks displaying roosters
or other animals, or perhaps conven-
tional symbols, shaped from straw. The
artist was a travelling thatcher who
found ready employment because of
the good work he put in. He lost his
job the night the police called at his hut
over the mysterious disappearance of a
female relative, and several bright young
things who had been dancing with him
a night or two before got a shock when
they learnt of the crime for which he
was wanted.
* * * *
“Omah”: “Shamuseen” (B. 23 / 3 / ’6O),
correcting misconceptions in an earlier
par., also omits several exceptions to the
“poisonous flesh of scaleless fish.” In
the saltwater realm are the leatherjacket
and gurnard. The' spines of the gurnard
can inflict wounds which can quickly
become infected, but that doesn't affect
the flesh’s eating-qualities. Freshwater
examples include the northern black-
fish —“gumleaf,” “slimey” f'and “greasy”
are some of the local monickers of this
tastiest of all river-fishes. Another worth
mention is the tench.
* * * *
“Maitri”: Looking-over one of those
prize gardens—like the ones you see
illustrated in the glossy magazines—l had
to admit it was certainly worth inspect-
ing. There was every known gardening-
gadget (no borrowing the spade from
the chap next-door), watering-devices I’d
never suspected existed, potting-sheds,
forcing-sheds, humus-pits, compost-
heaps and what-have-you. It was almost
a relief when we came on something
as useful as a row of beehives. For
the provision of household honey? v No;
they had the specific job of pollinating
the blooms!
* * * *
“Serpe”: An outsize tiger-snake
killed by a car at Toolondo (Vic.) was
found to contain 51 young, each Bin.
to 9in. long.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: A correspondent has
claimed in a Melbourne daily that his
13-months-old youngster can swim 10yds.
under water. It could well be. One
moonlit night in Torres Strait a dinghy
sank under the weight of its overcrowded
native complement. All broke surface
except a six-weeks-old boy who had been
sleeping on a coil of rope up for’ard.
After almost two minutes of diving by
the near-amphibian “boys” one came up
with the child. At first glance I was
sure the little mite was dead, but closer
inspection showed him to be only snooz-
ing. Handed over to his mother, he
stirred and commenced drowsy absorp-
tion of nutriment from Nature’s fount. I
have since wondered, as a very unlearned
layman, if a very young child retains for
a time the ability to breathe under water,
possibly as a hangover from the gill stage
of the embryo.


The swallows that nested above the
view-window hatched four eggs, and
flighting-day came on January 16. The
Canberra was launched single-handed
by Dame Pattie with less fuss than the
parent-swallows, plus four aunts and
uncles, created to stimulate this aerial
venture. One weakling hesitated for
minutes and ended on the ground as a
write-off. Next day all swallows, includ-
ing the families from pumphouse, garage
and woodshed, had left the house-
surroundings and were seen no more,
except that just nine weeks later, while
we lunched, we clearly saw the two
parents bring their three dark striplings
to see the old nest. Each sat in it in
turn ; the whole visit lasting two minutes.
Then off they went. We guess they’ll be
back next December.—“Septulm.”
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: Hone, a city Maori, took
a job as handyman on an N.Z. out-
back farm. The boss asked if he could
put in a cattle-stop at the homestead-
gate. Hone nodded, and was back in
an hour to say the job was done. The
unbelieving farmer went to look. Hone
had transformed the front gate by paint-
ing a large notice: “Cattle. Stop!”
* * * *
“Bundalinga”: The Brisbane Water
Historical Society has acquired “Ken-
dall’s Cottage” at West Gosford
(N.S.W.), and will restore and preserve
it as a national memorial to the poet.
Henry Kendall/ lived in the cottage in
1874-75, when he was an accountant
with a timber firm, and there he wrote
“Narrara,” “Mooni” and “The Song of
the Wild Oak.” A Henry Kendall Cot-~
tage Trust has been formed to take
charge of the property.
* * * *
“Ex-Quiz-King”: There was dead
silence in the divorce court when the
co-respondent, in reply to a question,
described his occupation as “insemina-
tor.” Relief came when he was found
to be engaged in the dairy division of
the Agriculture Department, an expert
in artificial insemination of cows.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: That binghi hospital-
patient who, in his painting-hobby, drew
roses and the most delicate flowers (B.
23/3/’6O), could hardly have done so
from recollection of these on his home-
island, where such flora would probably
have been unknown. It is more likely
that he and his fellow-hobbyists were
copyists drawing from their recollection
of other paintings, or from prints.
Binghi will copy anything. School-
children being taught to write will re-
produce the calligraphy of the teacher,
With the result that the handwriting of
all pupils is well-nigh indistinguishable.
The mimicking tendency extends to
accents also. In the old days in Torres
Strait surprisingly mellifluous tones
among hefty and hirsute specimens were
a hangover from English learned from
a lady schoolteacher. On another island
a pronounced Scottish burr betokened
a Caledonian men-
tor, while a nasal
twang among others
was a relic of a
Yankee mate who
left his ship at
Thursday Island and
set up a dusky
menage on York
Island.
* * *
“D i 1 e a b a c h”:
“And,” said the old-
hand grape-snatcher,
shoving a gnarled
and massive fist
under the new-
chum’s nose, “if y’
see a big brown
bunch amongst the
leaves, with a thick
stem, don’t try and
cut it off. It might
be my mitt!”
❖ *
“Manamoi”: The
feather-tail is the
smallest of the
gliders, also of the
phalangers, a large
family which in-
cludes brush-tailed
possums and many
other non - gliding
types—the name re-
fers to the special
adaptation of the
phalanges (fingers)
for climbing. But the fairy - fragile
feather - tail is not the smallest of all
our marsupials ; several of the mouse-
like species are smaller. Tiniest of all is
thought to be the Kimberley planigale,
total length 3|in., of which 2in. is tail!
Other little-larger species of planigales
live in inland N.S.W., Queensland and
the Northern Territory, but because of
'their smallness and their retiring habits
they’re seldom seen. When they are
sighted it’s easy to recognise them by their
extraordinarily flattened, lizardlike heads
—about an eighth of an inch from base
of skull to crown—adapted to sliding
through coarse grass-tussocks and into
cracks in dried-out swamps. Like many
small marsupials, they are insectivorous,
and destroy many plague-locusts.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: The hand-fed possums
and cats at our country hospital not
only tolerated each other but had a
Jack-and-Mrs.-Sprat arrangement. One
hot evening, after a long session with
the Stork, I carried my very belated,
warmed-over meal to an open veranda.
Had no sooner sat down than a fresh
emergency sent me scurrying back to the
ward. Some 15 minutes later I returned,
to find the two cats each picking a chop-
bone, one possum gravely nibbling the
last finger of toast, and the other, having
cleaned-up the chipped-potatoes, lapping
the last sugary dregs from the teacup.
They’d courteously left me a few green-
peas.
THE ISLAND TRADER TODAY.
'T'he billy does take rather a long
time to boil on Kosciusko,
especially if you neglect to take your
firewood with you, for none grows there.
There are, of course, little alpine rela-
tives of the heaths, prostantheras and
tea-trees, but only a vandal would
disturb the grotesque and eloquent
patterns of these little battlers. If you’re
hankering for a cuppa, however, take a
look under a ledge downstream on the
left bank of the Snowy (south arm), just
below the little bridge near Seaman’s
Hut; I shoved some box-billets and a
bit of nice tea-tree kindling in there
about a month ago. That’s also the best
place for your fire if the westerly is
strong, but if you’d like a better view
while the billy boils —you’ll have time
to admire it —move on a mile or so to
Rawson’s Pass, just under the Summit,
where the Snowy proper tumbles down
to the north and Lake Cootapatamba
snuggles in the valley to the south, with
wave on wave of blue ranges on the
Victorian side stretching to the horizon
beyond. Cootapatamba spills over
among the boulders to become Leather
Barrel Creek, which you will cross on
the Alpine Way about halfway between
Dead Horse Gap and Tom Groggin,
where this road touches the Murray.
Leather Barrel crashes into the Murray
some miles up from Groggin, in one
of the most beautiful stretches of water
you’d see anywhere. As for the flavor
of that tea, I wouldn’t know. I drink
coffee. —“Wippegong.”


;><,w
m s
oOL : . IvTCvlw
&
, \*j
mrs
§s£ml&s
A happier choke for every occasion . . #
aneoves ™
- <
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’i
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK. RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course I
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
XaNvua sindv is AONVua uaiiaa
Business, Robbery, Etc.
FUNDS FOR DEVELOPMENT
IT wouldn't be a bad idea,
perhaps, if the Department
of Trade in Canberra sent a
boy round to the Treasury
with a few copies of Australian
Manufacturing Industry in the
Next Decade, being the report
of the Manufacturing Indus-
tries Advisory Council, a body
set-up in 1958 at the invitation
of John McEwen, Minister for
Trade.
The report, which was the
result of the efforts of a special
study-group within the council
(which was composed of 22
business-leaders under the
chairmanship of J. N. Kirby),
was produced under the panel-
chairmanship of Dr. J. Vernon,
of the C.S.R., with the aid of
Professor R. I. Downing, Com-
monwealth departmental offi-
cers, and others.
The report was put out in
July, 1959, but it didn’t receive
as much attention then as it
would now. The reason for
its topicality at present is that
since the big increases in Com-
monwealth wage-awards have
occurred the matter of con-
sumer-spending versus capital-
creation has become a major
economic issue, and central-
bank and import - licensing
policy has been altered so as
to combat cost-inflation in in-
dustry.
“To absorb its share of the
rising work-force, investment
in manufacturing needs to ex-
pand greatly,” the report said.
“It has been doing so for many
years now under the special
stimulus of war-time backlogs
and the steady flow of new
techniques, inventions and new
product demands. If there is
confidence in the coming
stimulus of rising demand, it
should go on expanding.
“Generally speaking, manu-
facturing-industry has not been
short of funds during the post-,
war period, although develop-
ment might have been faster in
recent years, particularly among
the smaller businesses, had the
Commonwealth Government
extended to manufacturers
similar concessions to those
granted to primary-producers
and the mining industry.
“The principal source of
development-finance for manu-
facturing-industry has been re-
tained earnings. The sample
of manufacturing - companies
suggests that retained earnings
have supplied on the average
well over half of the funds
needed to support the expan-
sion of recent years. Retained
earnings include provision for
depreciation, plant-replacement
and other purposes. Only part
of retained earnings is non-
taxable; indeed, some part is
taxed heavily, with the result
that this basic "source of funds
is subject to considerable
erosion.
“If industry is to remain
efficient and competitive,
modern technological develop-
ment demands a rapid replace-
ment of obsolete plant and
equipment, and for this reason,
manufacturers should be given
every encouragement to accu-
mulate resources which can be
used for this purpose. It is
certainly not a satisfactory
argument for the continuance
of the present policy to say
that manufacturing industry
has attained its present strength
in spite of it. The Government
will have to consider whether
or not manufacturing-industry
can continue to expand suffici-
ently quickly without some
lessening of the tax-drain on
funds not available for distri-
bution to shareholders, but
required for plant-replacement
and capita 1-formation. Re •.
tained earnings are one of the
most economical sources of
funds, and manufacturing-com-
panies should be encouraged to
regard them as such.
“Another important source
of funcfs for development is
capital-raisings; these include
private capital raised in Aus-
tralia and inflow from abroad,
at present mainly from the
United Kingdom and the
United States. Throughout the
post-war period there has been
no real shortage of funds in the
capital market, almost all new
issues (including debentures and
notes) offered by manufactur
ing-companies having been
readily taken up. The council
does not agree, however, that
such a favorable position of
supply will continue through-
out the 1960’5.
“Conditions are likely to be
different in several important
respects. The competition for
funds is likely to be extremely
keen, and in this connection
the rapidly-growing influence
of the hire-purchase business in
Australia is particularly im-
portant. The rising intensity of
competition in Australia may
piake it more difficult for
manufacturing - companies to
obtain all the funds they would
like from the capital market.
If, under pressure of these
demands, interest-rates rise
higher than they are now, this
will add a burden to the in-
dustrial financial structure and
also to Government borrow-
ings.
“Manufacturing - companies,
if they are to recommend them-
selves to the investing public,
will have to show evidence
that they are competently man-
aged, financially stable and
capable of yielding a satisfac-
tory return on invested capital.”
Share Boom and Pensions
/Canberra apparently takes
the prevailing Australian
sharemarket boom as evidence
of real prosperity. It would
be on sounder ground if it
accepted company profits as its
guide, and even then it would
need to take the effects of in-
flation into account, allowing
for capital-erosion through in-
adequate taxation allowances
and other factors.
One of the most startling
effects of the Canberra attitude
to the sharemarket casino is the
result it has had on the old-age
pensions payable to elderly
people with a small amount of
savings invested in Stock Ex-
change securities.
Because of their investments,
such people are usually on a
partial pension only. But, over
the past year, such has been the
speculative rise in share prices
that pensions have been re-
duced even where no increase
in income has been received by
the pensioner during the year.
When share-values fell, in many
cases, earlier, the department
was not so ready to increase
pensions.


MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mullens
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O'Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I (3 lines) 8L5327
Cables & Telegrams
“EMDECELEX,” Sydney
Cap t Yorf
QUEENSLAND
v
* 1
N£W SOUTH WALES /
VICTORIA
*
"From
Cope York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
( (Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885.
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
The only Trustee company having offices
each with its own Board of Directors and
Management in three States —New South
Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
And at Newcastle, Alfoury, Townsville, Too-
woomba, Kockhanipton and CharJeville.
* UT23C
These pensioners complain
that the value of “property” at
the time of application for a
pension should hold, and that
effervescent increase in “value”
on the Stock Exchange is not
the concern of the pensions
people unless it is also accom-
panied by an increase in divi-
dend income.
One pensioner points out
that, because of illness, he had
to sell some investments, and
this, with a decrease in the
dividends received from other
shares, reduced his income
from investments by 20 p.c.
But of the boom in
share prices on ’Change the
department has reduced his
original pension by 10 p.c., or,
allowing for the increase of
7s. 6d. a week in all pensions
last year, the reduction is nearer
25 p.c.
Presumably the attitude of
Canberra is that the pensioner
could sell his shares and invest
then in Government bonds,
after which there is unlikely to
be much capital-appreciation,
and the pension could be more
permanently established on the
new fixed-income investment.
Whatever the Canberra atti-
tude on this score, where the
pensioner elects to retain his
savings in equity shares it
seems not only arbitrary but
very much rule-of-thumb if an
unhealthy and demoralising
share-boom that might easily
prove to be evanescent is taken
as grounds for a reduction in
his pension when, in fact, there
may have already been a drop
in the meagre income from his
modest savings.
B.H.P.’s Higher Div.
A lift of a penny a share, to
lid. (against lOd. interim
and final last year), in the final
div. of B.H.P. created more
guessing than excitement in the
market for B.H.P. scrip. The
first question, in the guessing-
game is' whether the rate is in-
tended to be Is. 9d. or Is. lOd.
a year (against Is'. Bd. since the
1957 bonus-issue). The second
question is whether it is in-
tended as a sugar-coating to
any premium that might be
charged on new issues.
The sharemarket, ever since
the “Irishman’s Bonus-issue”
of 1957, when the capitalisation
of share-premiums was fol-
lowed by a drop in the div.-
rate from 10 p.c. to 8j p.c., has
had reason to question any in-
tention of liberality by the
B.H.P. board where it appears
to be handing-out gifts. B.H.P.
has such a big programme of
plant-extension ahead of it that
its emphasis has been on
plough-back rather than on
generosity to shareholders for
several years now.
Announcement of the in-
creased div. was followed by a
slight strengthening in B.H.P.
shares to 81s. 6d. Even on the
basis of a div. at the rate of
Is. lOd. a year, the immediate
yield at that figure is only 2.2
p.c.
Second Capital Fund
the 10s. shares of the
** first Australian Capital
Fund backed by investments
with a market-value of 11s. 7d.
on March 10, the lan Potter
group (lan Potter and Co., in
association with the Commer-
cial Bank of Australia and Aus-
tralian United Corporation) is
now offering a million shares
in the Second Australian Capi-
tal Fund, Incorporated, at 10s.
a share. After subscription of
the million shares they will be
continuously on offer at prices
related to the market-valuq of
the fund’s investments.
Resources of this Second
Capital Fund will be invested
primarily in listed ordinary
shares, and a selection of the
proposed investments is given
in the prospectus. It is stressed
that the fund will, as a matter
of policy, reinvest a portion of
its dividend income “and can
therefore build-up its capital
resources to a greater extent
than is possible by an indivi-
dual investor whose dividends
must bear personal income-
tax.”
Features of the fund are its
diversity of share-interests, its
simplicity in investment,, and
the ready marketability of its
own shares.
A maximum service-fee of
l\d. a share is charged on the
sale of new shares, plus a
quarterly management-fee of
one-eighth of one per cent, of
the fund’s average daily net
assets.
For investors who like their
selection done for them, these
capital-funds have many attrac-
tions, and this one is in par-
ticularly experienced hands.
Email Lifts Its Div.
'T'he lift in the basic div. of
Email, Ltd., from 9 p.c. to
10 p.c., and the addition of a
2y p.c. bonus to celebrate the
co.’s 25th anniversary, looks
rather good.
To begin with, a bonus of
21 p.c. by itself seems quite
fitting and respectable, and
would have done so without a
rise in the basic div.
Then, again, Email’s ante-
cedents are so involved that the
25th anniversary of formal
incorporation as a public co.
is not necessarily an anniver-
sar Y of the natural birth of the
business. The original Elec-
tricity Meter Manufacturing
Co. Pty. (Emmco) began as a
partnership between J. K.
Schartl and k. I. E. Schultz in
1912. New System Telephones
kicked-off in 1920. After they
were brought together by Email
in 1934 the process of take-
over continued on a never-end-
ing scale,
All of this seems to suggest


KENT
FILTERS BEST
For the flavor you like I
• REGULAR
• KING SIZE
• CRUSH-PROOF
BOX
PRING DEAN & CO.
H. H. Dean, V. J. Berner, W, L. Hunt, J. A. Hudson.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
27 Hunter St., SYDNEY. Telephone: BW4OII (3 lines)
Telegrams Address: Pring Stock Exchange, Sydney.
Cables Address: Bin war, Sydney. •
that Email this year felt like
celebrating, anyway, largely
because it had the means to do
it.
In announcing the bonus and
increased div., Email also pub-
lished higher formal profit-
figures—£632,oBo, up £40,684.,
Net profit was arrived-at after
providing £532,068 for
depreciation (up £16,356) and
£lOO,OOO (down £30,679) for
increased cost of plant-replace-
ment.
(Apart from trading profits,
£173,027 of non-trading profits
have been added direct to
reserves, and £150,000 of non-
trading profits and provisions
have been added to plant-
replacement reserve.)
Taxation provision is dis-
closed for the first time at
£536,780.
Tax provision would suggest
a true net profit of about
£900,000, representing 16 p.c.
on ord. capital, as against 13
p.c. if the official figure, plus
the transfer out of current
profits to plant-replacement
reserve, be accepted.
Neither of these calculations
may seem high when related to
the cuwent market for the co.’s
shares —13s. 6d. was being paid
for the ss. units last week.
But the co. is obviously one
of the strong ones in a key in-
dustry, and from now on share-
holders may expect to be given
a clearer view of the trading
results each year. This may
have the added value of putting
the co. in a stronger position
in the event of its engaging in
further takeovers, or of a re-
newal of the old courtship with
A.W.A.
M.L.C. Bonuses
"piGURES for 1959 issued by
the Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance show that
it holds in force 1,676,609
policies assuring, with bonuses,
£629 million. Bonus-rates have
been increased again, the
amount distributed to policy-
holders being double that dis-
tributed as recently as 1955.
Total new business was again
a record—l42,sB6 policies, as-
suring £86,028,454 (£78,612,526
for 1958).
Income of the M.L.C. rose
by more than £2.8 million to
£30.2 million.
Total assets, up £16.3 million
at £178.9 million, included
“It 'ud be almost worth while going straight. ’ Struth ,
when I got lumbered it Was only worth a lousy spin.”
Government securities £59; 1
million, which constituted 33
p.c. of total assets; loans on
mortgage £55.1 million (up
£4.2 million); company shares
£13.7 million (up £2.4 million);
freehold and leasehold property
£14.4 million (up £1.7 million);
debentures and debenture-
stocks £11.5 million (up £2
million); notes of other com-
panies, £9.2 million (up £2.9
million).
In the Ordinary branch the
earning-rate on funds was
£5 ss. 9d. per cent, (up 6s. 3d.)
before tax and £5 per cent, (up
ss. Bd.) after tax. Expenses
were 15.44 p.c. (16.21 p.c. pre-
vious year) of premium in-
come.
In the Industrial the earning-
rate on funds was £5 3s. p.c.
(up 10s. 9d.) before tax and
£4 18s. 9d. p.c. (up 10s. 2d.)
after tax.
Expenses were 29.16 p.c.
(28.92 previous year) of pre-
mium income.
A total of £210,709 was
written-off securities.
Prospects for 1960-61
r T"'HE Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s efforts to prevent
cost-inflation from turning into
a wider inflationary spiral
“would force many businesses
to re-think their plans for 1960-
61,” Mr. P. A. Shrapnel, chief
economist with W. D. Scott
and Co. Pty. (management con-
sultants), said on March 31,
addressing a meeting of Sydney
businessmen.
Mr. Shrapnel predicted buoy-
ant export-incomes. He esti-
mated that exports would reach
£940 million this year, and
£9BO million in 1960-61. Aus-
tralia should benefit from rising
economic activity overseas,
stimulating effective demand.
The speaker expects “slightly
higher prices” for many rural
and mineral exports, excepting
meats and wheat.
Imports are expected to rise
from £9lO million this financial
year to about £lOOO million
in 1960-61. Mr. Shrapnel de-
plored the existence of rumors
that import-restrictions would
be reimposed after 12 to 18
months and that authorities
would use 1960-61 as a base-
year. He claimed that “inter-
national reserves are adequate
to finance normal import re-
quirements for some years,
even with a slightly lower in-
flow of capital.”
The rise in production and
employment over the past six
months should continue into
1960-61. Consumer-goods were
doing particularly well, but
slower growth-rates should be
anticipated.
Retail-price indexes will con-
tinue to rise in 1960-61 even if
the Government's anti-infla-
tionary action is very effective.
The Government cannot avoid
a rise in public expenditure,
but revenue will also be up
strongly.
The Government will budget
for a balance, but strive for a
surplus, which is deflationary,
Mr. Shrapnel concluded.
Stanhill-Hiltons
John Carrodus, secretary ot
Stanhill Consolidated, Ltd.,
sponsors of the Chevron
hotels, has been very candid
indeed in discussing the deal
with Hiltons Hotels Inter-
national (U.S.), which will
take-over the management of
the new Chevron Sydney when
the first stage is completed in
August and will later manage
the Melbourne Chevron.
As they are built, Hiltons
will manage Chevrons in
Queensland, Newcastle and
Perth. Adelaide and Canberra
are included and £22.5 million
will be spent in three years.
The U.S. company will put
up between 15 and 25 per
cent, of the ordinary capital
in each new Chevron project,
although it has provided
management only and not
capital in the past in countries
other than the U.S. Hiltons
will not receive any part of
the profits until 21 per cent.,
after tax, has been made on
ordinary capital.
Stanhill owns Chevron and
Scotts (which is not included
in the deal) in Melbourne, 49
per cent, of Chevron Sydney,
and one-third of Chevron
Queensland, Ltd., which has
two hotels at Surfers’ Paradise
and real-estate, as well as
interests in h.-p., land-sub-
division, Factors, Ltd., and
Rockmans Showrooms.
Melbourne City Council is
at present looking askance at
plans for two projects for
Chevron Melbourne, one for
a 41-story project and a second
for a 25-story project.


A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
Vintage Wines
N.S.VV. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
"MURDER IN THE CATHEDRAL"
\\7ith Robert Speaight as
Thomas a Becket the
part he created in Canterbury
Cathedral in 1935 Hugh
Hunt’s last production at
Sydney Elizabethan was about
as good as it could be made in
that theatre. One missed the
spontaneous charm of the pre-
war Sydney production by
Diana Reeve, with such things
as the fierce ritual chanting
of a procession through the
audience at St. James Hall
(now the Phillip Street Theatre),
the chanters half-turning, then
moving forward again, in
almost a dance-routine.
In a few of these touches
there was a sense of glory
maybe impossible to the Eliza-
bethan Theatre, where, when
knights and priests appeared
in spotlights at opposite boxes,
one expected it might be to
ask Mo a question. But on
the Elizabethan stage, with its
simple fore-stage and two huge
doors opening and shutting on
the cathedral interior and altar,
there was more clarity than
in the earlier production, and
there was Speaight.
From his first speech—the
greatest poetry in the play —
Speaight was the embodiment
of the mortified spirit, the
calm utterance, and what clear
and everlasting light he could
shed upon that speech he shed,
although one had to go home
and take down one’s first
edition (bought, so time flies,
in 1935) and study those nine
lines for half-an-hqur before
they gave-up their meaning :
They know and do not know, that
acting is suffering
And suffering is action. Neither
does tffe actor suffer
Nor the patient act. But both are
fixed
In an eternal action, an eternal
patience
To which all must consent that it
may be willed
And which all must suffer that they
may will it,
That the pattern may subsist, for
the pattern is the action
And the suffering, that the wheel
may turn and still
Be forever still.
It’s a rather tight bit of reason-
ing to put before a theatre
audience, but it is good
theatre ; its very mystery, with
its unmistakable majesty,
immediately establishes the
hero’s saintly quality.
No, if there is bad theatre
Robert Thomas a Becket at Sydney Elizabethan
in this play, what this excellent
production confirms is one’s
revulsion from the cater-
wauling chorus of women. > In
a play where the characters
are solid and practical these
women, spouting romantic
effusions like a literary study-
group on ■ a bender, are out
of place. Here, one says to
oneself as the actors take a
rest and the women rearrange
themselves artistically for
another oratorio, come those
damn’ women again.
Indeed, one formed a some-
what heretical theory: after
Becket has resisted the tempt-
ing of Eric Reiman to wine,
women and song; of Ron
Graham to joining Church and
State in a dream of power ; of
Ken. Broadbent to leading a
rebellion of the nobility
against the King ; and of Ron
Fladdrick, as Death, to seek-
ing martyrdom for the sake
of glory, he secretly succumbed
to the temptation of going
to heaven to get away from
those women.
It is hard to forgive Eliot
for putting such contumely
with his choruses upon Dinah
Shearing—the actress one
loves —on Ruth Cracknell and
Patricia Conolly. And yet
one forgives him. The play
is so full of invention —the
idea, for instance, of using the
cathedral setting for a soliloquy
in the form of a sermon ; the
final appearance of the knights
(borrowed from Shaw’s “St.
Joan”) as young Tory aristo-
crats justifying armed force at
a public meeting; in the
writing, the wonderful adapta-
tion of morality-play and
mystery-play versification to
the dialogue of tempters and
knights ; and, above all,
the feeling—as in the scene
where Death tempts Becket
with the glory of martyrdom
-—of being in contact with one
of the most subtle and pro-
found minds of our times.
R. McC.
❖ *x+
Borovansky
At the risk of being accused
of a Furphyan “bias, offensively
Australian,” the present com-
mentator has always found the
Borovansky Ballet more ex-
citing than the better-drilled
overseas companies.
Why? First, its animation
and spontaneity. Second,
Edouard Borovansky was
always happy in his choice of
male dancers: the European
virile yet poetic male seemed to
be his ideal rather than the
Swinburnian languors of the
De Valois and Ashton regimes.
Third—though this is not
strictly an aesthetic considera-
tion —this is the company that
you and 1 as an audience have
made.
We have seen Laurel Martin,
Dorothy Stevenson, Peggy
Sagar and Edna Busse pass
through it, and see now Kath-
leen Gorham at the height of
her art in it. In much the way
that the French can accept an
ageing Mistinguette and a
Chevalier, and the English a
Cicely Courtneidge, the stars
of “Boro” can claim a closer
place in our hearts than any
spectacular visitors may hope
to claim.
This does not mean that
such a claim is at the expense
of quality performance. Boro-
vansky must have been a
genius in selecting people and
drawing from them perform-
ances—such as Sagar’s Doll in
“Petrouchk a,” Stevenson's
“Giselle,” Grinwis’s Toreador
in “Corrida” —in which tech-
nique has to be reinforced by
artistic imagination.
The company opened in


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
F. S. WATSON, Manager.
Brisbane with “The Sleeping
Princess.” There was a little
public asking of “Why not
something new?” but the
“new” cannot displace the
Tschaikowsky pieces or
“Giselle,” any more than a
Prokofieff concerto can displace
a Beethoven. i
Sets were lavish, with
applause for the one of the
palace asleep, but in many
cases costumes were fussy and
overgarlanded. As the Prince,
Robert Pomie had little to do
beyond partner the princess.
At all times he was suitably
regal, but the evening was, as
Tschaikowsky intended, Got-
ham’s. For years this artist has
amazed with her sureness and
precision. To these qualities
she has now added humanity.
Her Giselle promised to be
arhong the great.
But the critic’s night for
“Giselle” was not to be Gor-
ham’s: instead, a new dancer,
lovanka Biegovic. Reports had
noted her indifferent work in
“The Sleeping Princess,” so one
was not prepared for the beauty
of her Giselle.
Biegovic’s combined powers
of actress and dancer made
this the most moving Giselle I
have ever known. Her country
girl was all smiles and inno-
cence almost
so —but her realisation of the
Count’s duplicity brought into
play vast reserves of tragic
power, and the sense of loneli-
ness she achieved in her
moments, to the front of the
stage, when her mind goes as
she counts the imaginary petals
of a lover's flower, struck into
the vast, single heart of the
audience.
Such art has a bushfire
quality. - It caught-up Garth
Welch and led him to give a
magnificent performance, sup-
pressing many of his annoying
mannerisms to reveal a clear
line in his dancing; it fired the
corps de ballet to present the
finest drowning of Hilarion in
the Wilis’ scene; and from
Marilyn Jones, not physically
ideal as the Queen of the Wilis,
it drew a performance as icy
and austere as the pond that
awaited Hilarion.
A tired-looking “Graduation
Ball” filled-in the rest of the
evening. Such a “G ise 11 e”
needed no such icing. One
other note jarred the evening’s
excellence. The new director,
Peggy Van Praag, made a
curtain-speech which contained
the usual implication—that with
hard work this company will be
equal to those overseas. This
was a far better “Giselle” than
many a London performance,
and did not merit the faint
praise implied.
Val Vallis
❖ ❖
Alfredo Campoli
Looking more and more like
Sydney cartoonist Emile
Mercier and less and less like
the violinist of popular concep-
tion, the Italian virtuoso Gast-
up at Sydney Conservatorium
to begin his second tour after
an absence of a decade —and
two things remained certain
after the first item: he is the
personification of violin-playing
made easy ; and the intervening
years have, if possible, given
him even lovelier tone and
greater fluency of style.
This mastery of tone was
severely tested in Vitalii’s
“Chaconne.” Unlike the famous
Bach example, this one is
accompanied. Its transference
from the original figured-bass
to full-piano medium in no way
detracts from its character,
however ; and even if it doesn’t
measure-up in architecture to
Bach’s, its strongly-knit theme-
and-variations form remains an
intellectual challenge for any
violinist. Campoli wove the
filigree embellishments through
the thematic texture with fas-
cinating skill and facility.
Brahms’s symphonically-cast
Sonata in D Minor gave Cam-
poli as rich an opportunity as
may be found in the literature
for both dramatic urgency and
singing melody and no
violinist asks for a better
medium for this last than
extended work for the G string.
Campoli drew song of ravish-
ing purity in the cavatina, and
in the rondo the drama he
gained was almost of cosmic
proportions.
The Sonata (1944) by
Poulenc has a deal of French
logic and some witty moments
within its sinewy framework,
and melody hard and brilliant
rather than soft and appealing.
Campoli found in it a spici-
ness to please both himself and
his audience. (As a savory
rather than a sweet, its place
would appropriately have been
before, not after, the piece de
resistance —the Brahms.)
Fortunately Campoli broke
away from what has become
the bad habit of making a
violin recital an all-sonata
affair and dropped-in as his
final bracket some smaller but
very engaging pieces. There
was the charming little Mozart
rondo arranged by Kreisler ;
the Bach “Arioso,” a steadily
flowing stream of lyrical devo-
tion ; and “La Campanella,”
rather less pyrotechnical than
is usual with Paganini, but a
technical tour de force of
which Campoli took full
advantage.
New Zealand pianist Maurice
Till gave sensitive accompani-
ment to the smaller pieces and
collaboration of imposing
stature in the big sonatas.
*> ❖ ♦>
Sydney’s First Brecht
In the Wallace Theatre the
Sydney University Players are
giving the city its first look at
a play by Bertholt Brecht, the
German whose attempts to
bring into modern drama a
new objectivity and a variety
and clarity of expression allied
to a concern with problems of
social behavior have for years
been among the landmarks of
European theatre.
The play is “The Good
Woman of Setzuan,” a richly
detailed examination, through
the fable-like adventures of a
Chinese prostitute elected to
favor by the gods, of the pro-
position that in a corrupt
society survival makes good-
ness impossible.
Leo Schofield’s production—
with “live” incidental music
and songs by Ralph Midden-
way, and Marlene Horsell sen-
sitive in the exhausting central
r o 1 resourceful, but
everywhere lacked the firmness
and clarity essential to the
play. The company is to be
commended, however, for
giving at least a passable show-
ing to a piece which many
theatregoers must have been
waiting to see and which should
have been done in one of our
big theatres long before this.
Artbursts
Art at Sydney Show
Discovered at last a hun-
dred yards or so past some
beautiful little red bulls wear-
ing yellow and purple ribbons
round their podgy necks, the
R.A.S. art-exhibition, when
The Bulletin man saw it, was
filled with stalwart stockmen
critically inspecting the sheep-
paintings and even more stal-
wart ladies saying “Yes, ye-es,”
at the abstracts.
The exhibition as a whole
poses the awful question: if
conventional painting, by some
capable painters, looks as bad
as it does here, is it really
because more energy is going
into the abstracts or is it only
because nobody can tell
whether an abstract is good or
bad? v
Anyhow, some paintings
'worth saying “Yes” or “Ye-es”
to in the Industrial section are
Frederic Bates’s “Suburban
Night-shift,” Edward Hall’s
“The Shunters” and Robert
Hughes’s “Steamrollers”; in the
Rural (traditional) section Alan
D. Baker’s “Spring Hills,”
Molly Johnson’s “Australia,”
Dzems Kriv’s “Florescence,”
Rhys Williams’s “Summer
Pastures” and (a painting one
would like to see again in a
quieter place) Lance Solomon’s
“November Morning”; in the
Rural (modern) section the
paintings by Ivan Englund,
Maximilian Feurring, Robert
Grieve and Carl Plate.
Prizewinners, each receiving
£SOO, were: Industrial, Margo
Lewers’s “Building Project”;
Rural (traditional), James R.
Jackson’s “Western Land-
scape” and (second-prize, £150)
John Eldershaw’s “The Range
Farm”; Rural (modern), Thos.
Gleghorn’s “Drought.” All
the winners have done better
work in the past.
❖ ❖ ❖
Easter Offerings
With only 13 artists repre-
sented and few of those by
anything particularly fresh,
Sydney Macquarie Galleries’
Easter exhibition lacks the
interest and variety of Austra-
lian painting it has usually had
in the past; though it must be
said that the display of
Edward Ardizzone’s captivat-
ing watercolor-drawings, full
of wit about < lawyers and
surf-bathers, adds a great deal
to the general interest.
The Australian pictures


“Just a last fling before they electrify it!"


- General Motors
Acceptance Corporation, Australia
(Incorporated in U.S.A. Limited Liability)
REGISTERED UNSECURED LOAN STOCK
Principal and interest unconditionally guaranteed by
General Motors Acceptance Corporation , New York.
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
PER ANNUM
6,10,15 YEARS
£lOO or any multiple thereof may be invested in any or all of the currencies—■
3 Years, 6 Years, 10 Years, 15 Years. GMAC, Australia has the right to
repay earlier. Conditions of repayment, including premiums, are set out
in the prospectus. Copies of the full prospectus and forms of applica-
tion may be obtained from:
BRANCHES OF COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES
GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION, AUSTRALIA
Underwritten by
The Anglo Australian Corporation Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney.
Brokers to the Issue,
lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra.
Applications for Loan Stock will proceed only on one of the forms of application referred
to and attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
PISS
range from the decorative
lightness of Cedric Flower’s
terraces and Justin O’Brien’s
still-life to the heavy-handed-
ness of Sali Herman’s bulls and
Jean Bellette’s landscape and
include a couple of good
Rupert Bunnys, Grace Cossing-
ton Smith’s large “Sofa in the
Room” and some of the
intricate designs of Godfrey
Miller—one of them, though
the familiar mandolin emerges,
very pleasing in its quiet color
and sweeping movement.
Films
“The Story on Page One”
This one has not, as the
title might imply, a newspaper
background ; it is a murder-
trial, and one on the same
intellectual level as “Anatomy
of a Murder.” The forensic
quality is high, with the razor-
sharp minds of prosecutor and
defending counsel bringing out
points not apparent on the
surface and wringing sweat
and truth from witnesses.
There is a deliberately slow
but very effective build-up of
tensions as the initially reluct-
ant young counsel, gradually
acquiring faith in his client’s
innocence, goes tigerishly to
work on her behalf.
Anthony Franciosa, as the
vital and intense defence-
attorney, dominates the film.
Gig Young and Rita Hayworth
(who calls on much of the
quiet dramatic ability she
showed in “They Came to
Cordura”) are the accused.
At Sydney Regent.
“The Last Angry Man”
This fine film is an admix-
ture of satire and tragedy,
informed by a rare compas-
sion and a deep understand-
ing of human nature, with
Paul Muni, returning to the
screen after an absence of 14
years, in the outstanding per-
formance of a distinguished
career.
Muni’s histrionic monument
towers on a simple and broad
plinth ; it is the story of a
poor and elderly Jewish doctor
who, dedicated to his practice
in New York's East Side
slums, is caught-up in the net
of a TV ideas-man who would
build him up into a sort of"
medical hero to tie-in with the
latest gimmick of his sponsor,
a pharmaceutical - manufac-
turer. The doc. despises the
commercialisation of his pro-
fession, but is too kind to
resist the blandishments of
either the ideas-man or his
TV-mad nephew. A coronary
occlusion brought on by over-
work kills him even as the
cameras are about to whirr—
a beautiful touch of irony.
Muni’s pathetic yet forth-
right medico is a portrait of
great naturalness and signi-
ficance. Very close behind it
comes Luther Adler, as the
lifelong specialist-friend who
attends him frantically in his
last hour.
Another fine performance is
given by David Wayne as the
TV-executive desperately
anxious to get a winner to
stave-off his own mounting
debts.
At Sydney Gala.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Lombard Australia, Ltd.
Tremendous rates of h.-p. growth,
evident in earlier post-war years,
are giving way to steadier, if less
dramatic, expansion.
A reconstruction of the Producers and
General Finance Corp. (which ran into
trouble about 20 years ago), Lombard
Australia, Ltd., until 1958 known as
Consolidated Finance Corp., Ltd., en-
gages primarily in h.-p. finance, though
until recently its interests ranged the
manufacture, retailing, removal and
storage of furniture. The co. sold the
last of its operating retail-furniture
stores, A. W. Booth Pty. and A. W.
Booth (Wollongong) Pty., during the
year just ended.
In 1958 a 60 p.c. interest was acquired
in the co. by Lombard Banking, Ltd.
The deal, involving a cash payment of
£965,000, vested control of Lombard’s
activities in the U.K. and paved the
way at the same time for more vigorous
and expert expansion in Australia.
Disposal of the semi-moribund furniture
subsidiaries has enabled Lombard to
concentrate fully and effectively on
finance. Last year the co. crossed into
W.A., taking-over Associated Acceptance
Holdings, Ltd., Perth, by offering one
ss. share and 3s. in cash for each of
the 1,400,000 10s. ords. in Associated
Acceptance, which, as Lawley Finance,
Ltd., itself took-over Associated Accep-
tance Corp. (Vic.), Ltd., and Associated
Fire and General Insurance Co. Pty.,
in 1957. Shortly afterwards a branch
was opened in S.A., giving Lombard an
Australia-wide spread.
Roughly half of Lombard's h.-p. out-
standings relate to new or used motor-
vehicles, tractors and various types of
machinery, the other half relating to
domestic appliances, TV-receivers, etc.
Significantly, of the 1,261,500 (up 65,500)
new h.-p. agreements effected in Aus-
tralia during 1958-59, motor-vehicles,
including tractors, accounted for 73 p.c.
in value, household goods 21 p.c. and
plant and machinery only 6 p.c. In other
words, regardless of the brilliant and
sporadic bursts in TV consumer-spend-
ing, now history, the motor-vehicle in-
dustry remains by and large the funda-
mental determinant of overall growth-
patterns in the h.-p. game.
Last term Lombard became associated
with Australian Mqtor Industries, Ltd.,
distributors throughout Australia of the
Standard Car range of vehicles Mer-
cedes Benz cars and trucks, and Fiat
tractors —in the formation of a new
subsidiary, Australian Motor Finance
Pty. The co., which will finance term-
sales of Australian Motor Industries’
products, started operations late in 1959,
and is expected to make substantial
contributions to revenue in the current
and future years. Not long after a
majority shareholding was acquired in
Regent Motors (Holdings), Ltd.
Lombard’s accounting period has been
changed to December 31 (previously
June 30) to accord with that of Lombard
Banking, Ltd., London. Latest figures
cover the first twelve months’ trading
subsequent the change-over. Profit at
£116,596, ascertained after tax £77,968
£128,625 for the previous six months
and depreciation £9530 (£4596), repre-
sents a heavy fall compared with
£128,625 for the previous six months
and £258,488 for the year ended June 30,
1958:
r~ Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.f
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
Debenture-exp. w/off, £31,238 7
3957. .195,482 7 111 148.629 J lo ’ 615 48 ’ 687
Tax overprovided, £32,317 .. .. 81,004
Profit sale assets, £12,865 .. .. 93,869
Reduction intangibles, £2600 .. .. 96,4<59
To staff-fund, £5OOO 91,469
Unexplained addition, £329 .. .. 91,798
Debenture-exp. w/off, £21,122 , 0 „ G „ a
1958. .258,488 7 10 135,226 5
Tax overprovided, £BO6 .. .. 194,744
To staff fund, £3(100 191,744
Dec.,
Debenture-exp. w/off, £48.940 ) ioovo ooq
1958. .128,625 7 10 67,613 j 12 ’ o ' 2 203 ’ 816
Tax overprovided, £26,692 . . . . 230,508
To staff fund, £6OOO 224,508
Adjustment re subsids, £34,786 .. 259,294
Revaluation investments, £23,242 .. 282,536
Capital profits, £31,688 .. .. 314,224
Unexplained addition, £l4 .. .. 314,238
Debenture-exp. w/off, £5003 7 oex «9q
1959. .116,596 7 10 170,208 J '
* Less proportion due to outside shareholders.
f After deducting goodwill and difference between
par and book-value of shares in subsidiaries.
A new basis of calculation has lifted
provision for unearned income to
£1,733,747 (equal to 13.6 p.c. of out-
standings), compared with £881,498 (12
p.c.) a year earlier, and £785,371 (12
p.c.) at June 30, 1958. “Whilst having
an adverse effect on the profit for the
year, this non-recurring adjustment has
brought about a consolidation of the com-
pany’s position which will be in the long-
term interests of the shareholders,” the
chairman, H. Morrissey, says in his
report. Additional factors, in steeply
rising operating costs, establishment costs
in Perth and Adelaide and non-recurring
costs including losses sustained on the
sale of furniture-stores, prevented profits
from keeping pace with expansion.
Outstanding debtors rose last term to
an all-time record, £12,730,983 (up
£5,417,168 for the year), equal to seven
times the co.’s capital but nevertheless
a ratio not unusual in the h.-p. business.
The earning-rate, after allowing pref.
entitlements £28,000, fell from 21.3 p.c.
(Dec. 31, 1958) to 6.2 p.c., following
21.5 p.c., 18.7 p.c. (adjusted for the big
tax overprovision in 1957) and 16 p.c.
back to 1956. Profits failed to cover ord.
divs., which, at 10 p.c. for the third suc-
cessive year, absorbed £142,208. Various
adjustments, transfers, etc., interlined in
the p.-and-l. table herewith, nevertheless
lifted aggregate reserves £51,807 to
£255,623."
Reflecting geographical expansion and
co.-acquisitions, the book-value of free-
holds and leaseholds lifted from
£318,398 to £403.439 and plant from
£48,337 to £56,344:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
,• —June ( December
Paid capital— 1958. 1958. N 1959.
Pref. .. .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord 1,072,263 1,072,263 1,422,075
Reserves .. . . 193,938 203,816 255,623
Outside interests 5,126 4,998 35,261
Debentures and
deposits . . 2,775,581 4,633,336 6,078,132
Unearned income 785,371 881,498 1,733,747
Overdraft •.. 1,293,889 445,061 3,921,838
Creditors, etc. . . 226,623 290,225 540,478
Tax provision .. 198,675 237,520 134,928
Final div. ~ 67,613 67,613 85,104
£7,019,079 £8,236,330 £14,607,186
Freeholds, lease-
holds .. .. 308,381 318,398 403,439
Plant, etc. .. 49,219 48,337 56,344
Shares other cos. 1 502.107 525,620
Stock . . .. 109,896 52,907 46,601
Equipment leased
to clients .. 844,196
Debtors .. .. 6,550,757 7,313,815 12,730,983
Cash, etc. .. 825 766
£7,019,079 £8,236,330 £14,607,186
Failing to obtain a banking licence —
an abortive attempt was made to take-
over the Brisbane Building and Banking
t?o., Ltd. —Lombard came up with its
owfl investment and savings plan, which,
launched last September, proved an
immediate success. The scheme, an inno-
vation derived from the co.’s U.K.
parent, netted £l \ million of short-term
deposits in less than one month and is
largely responsible for the increase in
debentures and deposits at balance-date
—£6,078,132, up £1,444,796.
The proportion borne by debentures
and deposits combined, to shareholders’
equity, is 2.9 to 1, and as such is typical
of not a few cos. in the h.-p. business.
A new item appears in Lombard’s
latest balance-sheet; equipment leased
to clients £844,196. Leasing is a small
but growing part of finance-co. business.
Its attraction to the customer is that it
is a no-deposit kinid of h.-p. which
enables him virtually to wipe-off the
capital-value of the asset he has acquired.
Leasing could become a big factor in
the finance game.
Lombard faces the current term with
every prospect of improved profit.
Trends in the motor-\ehic!e industry are
encouraging. In February, 1960, 23,228
new motor-vehicles were registered in
Australia as against 18,621 in February,
1959. TV is enjoying a minor boom in
Perth, Adelaide and Brisbane. However,
competition continues to intensify.
Last sold at 11s. 3d., the co.’s ss. ords.
return an immediate yield of 4.4 p.c.
from the 10 p.c. div. The 16s. prefs.
fetch 15s. 3d. to yield 7.3 p.c., and the
20s. prefs. are selling at par. Net tan-
gible backing for the ss. ords. at ss. lid.
could do with some building-up.
H. L. Brisbane & Wunderlich, Ltd.
The co. is the largest manufacturer of
roofing-tiles and the main supplier
of stainless-steel products in Western
Australia, as well as a glass-merchant
and shopfitter. Other products include
stoneware, sewerage-pipes, aluminium
window - frames and curtain - walling,
crockery, pottery, bricks, facing-tiles and
refractories.
Brisbane and Wunderlich is now firmly


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
113 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BW 1771—8 W 8088
Telegraphic & Cable Address “Rosdale” Sydney.
PATRICK & COMPANY
K. H. ALLEN
P. R. LEVY
M. R. Jj. DOWLING
A. P. REYNOLDS
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange,
16 O’Connell St., Sydney.
Tel. BL 5911 (10 lines)
Crown St., Wollongong.
Tel. B 5900.
established in the aluminium field.
During the last term the co. supplied
and erected the aluminium curtain-
walling in the new biochemistry labora-
tory at the University of W.A., in addi-
tion to filling many other contracts on
a smaller scale.
By widening the range of products
produced at its six Westralian factories,
B. and W. has been able to cope with
variations in demand for some of its
traditional lines with a reasonable degree
of success.
However, the co.’s fortunes are
strongly influenced by such economic
factors as the rate of homebuilding in
the State, imports of competitive pro-
ducts, and the Government’s policy on
development of deep sewerage.
Last year B. and W. was faced with
many difficulties, which were responsible
for a fall in earnings to the lowest level
since 1952.
Substantial savings were claimed
through the installation of a modern
de-airing pug-mill for the mixture and.
extruding of clay at the co.’s Caversham
tile-factory. These reductions in operat-
ing expenses weren’t enough, to make-up
for the increases in basic production-
costs which could not be offset by lifting
prices.
Total sales decreased by approximately
7 p.c. to £1,470,145. Turnover in terra-
cotta roofing-tiles was affected by a
further decline in the rate of home-
building in W.A. Sales of crockery were
lower as a result of “severe competition”
from cheaper imported ware.
Gross profit from trading for the year
ended June 30, 1959, was £39,054 lower
at £277,098. Rents and other sundry
income amounted to £1834.
General expenses were slightly lower
at £96,815. The coy set aside £45,596
for depreciation on fixed assets (down
£3589) and provided £43,957 for taxa-
tion (down £16,343).
Net profit was £15,491 lower at
£90,464:
t Dividends To Re- , Re-
June, Profit. Pref. f Ord. N serves. serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
1952.. 57,749 4436 10 p.c. =18,964 34,349 219,914
To staff fund, £5150 214,764
1953.. 80,729 4437 12$ p.c. =33,664 42,628 257,392
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 252,392
Tax overprovided, £16,567 .. .. 268,959
1954.. 4436 12J p.c. =41,282 77,865 346,824
Reserves capitalised, £84,049 .. 262,775
To staff fund, £3924 258,851
1955.. 4436 12$ p.c. =53,827 76,741 335,592
To staff fund, £250 .. 335,342
Tax underprovided, £5OBO ~ .. 330,262
1956.. 572 4436 12$ p.c. =73,664 23,472 353,734
1957.. 4436 12$ „ =73,663 22,061 375,795
Tax overprovided, £4744 .. .. 380,539
6 p.c.
1958.-105,955 5323 12J p.c. =73,663 26,969 407,508
Plant w/off, £14,765 392,743
To staff fund, £1126 .. .. 391,617
1959.. 90,464 5324 10 p.c. =58,930 26,210 417,827
The earning-rate on average ord. capital
declined to 14.4 p.c., compared with 17
p.c. in the previous year, and 16.2 p.c.
and 16.4 p.c. in 1957 and 1956. The
earning-rate on shareholders’ funds fell
from 9.5 p.c. in 1958 to 8.2 p.c. in 1959.
The steady 6 p.c. pref.-div. absorbed
£5324. The ordinary div.-rate was re-
duced from \2\ p.c. to 10 p.c., taking-up
£58,930. Reserves received £26,210, but
were decreased by £14,765 written-off
the plant due to “scrapping” and £1126
transfer to staff fund, and totalled
£417,827 at balance-date, free of in-
tangibles.
Under the prevailing trading condi-
tions the co. had “kept capital-develop-
ment to a minimum and concentrated on
improving liquidity.”
Bank accommodation was £67,494
lower at £103,282 and creditors £8647
lower at £84,465. Stock (including work-
in-progress, less progress payments) was
£5675 higher at £473,350. Sundry debtors
were up £8865 at £231,548.
The co. secured a £BO,OOO short-term
loan. Working-capital was £40,600
higher at £346,424, and current ratio
improved from 1.85 to 1 to 1.95 to L
Paid-up capital remained unchanged at
£678,037 in 88,733 6 p.c. cum. 20s. prefs.
and 589,304 20s. ords., all f.-p.:
Capital— 1957. 1958. 1959.
Pref. .. .. £88,733 £88,733 £88,733
Ord 589,304 589,304 589,304
Reserves ’.. .. 375,795 407,508 417,827
Staff fund . . 25,000 24,800 24,800
Overdraft .. .. 196,070 170,776 103,282
Loans .. .. - 80,000
Creditors .. .. 83,920 93,112 84,465
Tax provision .. 75,341 60,300 45,217
Final divs. .. 46,416 47,303 32,127
£1,480,579 £1,481,836 £1,465,755
Freeholds .. 391,275 398,029 406,101
Plant, etc. .. 412,524 392,692 354,339
Stock* .. .. 444,295 467,675 473,350
Debtors- .. .. 231,157 222,683 231,548
Cash, etc. .. 1,328 757 417
£1,480,579 £1,481,836 £1,465,755
* Includes work-in-progress, less progress-payments.
Net tangible asset-backing worked out
at £l2 9s. 6d. each for the prefs. and
345. 7d. for the ords.
The current trading-year is said to
have commenced on “a brighter note.”
The erection of several large buildings
in Perth and in the country areas has
strengthened the demand for many of
B. and W.’s manufactures. Substantial
contracts are in hand for the supply •
of curtain-walling and other aluminium-
work, including an £BO,OOO job for the
Rural and Industries Bank being built
in Barrack Street, Perth. The major
portion of aluminium balustrading and
safety-fence for the Narrows Bridge has
been supplied and placed in position.
The co.’s policy of modernising and
developing its sheet-metal factory during
recent years “placed it in a favorable
position to meet the highly competitive
conditions” characterising the industry
over the past 12 months. The factory
has increased its output which is being
absorbed by steadily improving sales.
The increase in turnover in the
crockery division is dependent on the
rate of flow of cheaper imports from
overseas, and here the situation remains
very competitive.
Production of glazed architectural
terra-cotta facing-tiles and blocks has
been added to the range of output at
the co.’s Brown Street factory. Orders
are in hand for the facing of several
large city buildings now in the course
of construction.
More successful trading in the current
term could see the restoration of a 12 {
p.c. ord.-div., maintained by the co. in
1953-58. However, the interim for the
first six months was kept at 5 p.c. (Pref.
shareholders had their rate raised from
5 p.c. to 6 p.c. in the previous year.)
Although an immediate scrip-issue is
unlikely at this stage, Brisbane and
Wunderlich remains a popular stock on
the Perth ’Change. The 20s. ords. last
fetched 425. Bd., to return 4.7 p.c. on the
basis of the present 10 p.c. div.-rate.
R. H. Gordon, Ltd.
TJrofits and earning - rates continue
their slow but steady downward
trend. The cash-order system of financ-
ing sales is being more and more
displaced by various forms of hire-pur-
chase and budget accounts, and R. H.
Gordon is finding it increasingly difficult
to cope with these changes.
Furniture-retailing, the other side of
the co.’s business, is subject to the strains
of intense competition and continuous
variations in consumer-tastes.
All this has added-up to make things
a bit difficult for the 57-year-old Sydney
pioneer. Net profit for the
year ended December 31, 1959, edged-
down by another £3432 to £27,201, after
allowing for all expenses, including
£1419 depreciation (up £737), and pro-
viding £12,600 for taxation (down
£3790). Pre-tax profit fell by £7222 to
£39,801, a bigger drop than in the pre-
vious year.
R. H. Gordon, noted for its generous
dividend policy, maintained the div.-
rate at a steady 10 p.c. (absorbing
£24,150):
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1952.. 25,444 13$ p.c. = 25,900 1 „„„ n , Q
To staff fund, £l5OO 25d,U4a
1953.. 38,095 15 p.c. = 29,138 ( „ Q -_ „ nnR
To stafl fund, £2OOO ..f 6 ' 9 ° 7 240 - 006
From tax-provision, £lO,OOO .. 250,006
From premises reserve, £2806 .. 247,200
1954.. 43,608 15 p.c = 29 > 138 111 970 259 170
To staff fund, £2,500 . .) ii,y '° 259,170
From premises Teserve, £5485 .. 253,C85
1955. . 31,830 13J p.c. = 27,4(5 | « ocr oca qia
To staff fund, £2,000 .. } 2ob,U4U
From maintenance reserve, £3240 252,800
1956.. 34,335 11§ p.c. = 28,175 1 . irn ofin
To staff fund, £2OOO \ 4 ’ 160 256<96 °
From maintenance reserve, £3327 .. 253,633
1957. . 33,414 10 p.c. 24,150 1 * 9 />, ono 907
To staff fund, £2OOO .. j ‘ 2oo,yU ‘
From maintenance reserve, £1298 . . 259,599
1958.. 30,633 10 p.c. = 24,150 1 089
To staff fund, £2OOO .. j 4 ’ 483 264 ’ 082
From maintenance reserve, 262,740
1959. . 27,201 10 p.c. 24,150 | nri oaq 7qi
To staff fund, £2OOO .. J ,UOl 2brf > ,yi
In terms of earning-rates, last year’s


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN DONALD TULLOCH late of
Smithfleld New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that ELIZABETH MARY
MAY TULLOCH has filed a Petition in
Divorce No. 3386 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1899.
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Mint Building Queen’s
Square Sydney by 19th of June 1960
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from EDGLEY, BROWN &
SANDERSON, Solicitors, of 6 Wynyard
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
A. L. NEYITT & CO.
,A. I>. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange) ■=-'
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building-,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO**
Phone: 81 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 18871 V
AUSTRALIA IS
ASSURED . . .
. . . friendly
Life Assurance
service
with
the
WJSTRMAW
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN
LIFE ASSURANCE
CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Qld. 1895)
DIRECTORS:
E. W. Robinson (Chairman); Col.
R. S. Goward, C.8.E.; P. H.
Phillips; T. Keith Smith; C. W.
Rotlie; W. J. Cooksey.
GENERAL MANAGER:
W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
GENERAL SECRETARY:
George Leslie,-F.C.1.5., A.A.S.A.
NEW BUSINESS MANAGER:
John L. Richter.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney
Profit Participation
SHARE INVESTMENTS THROUGH
REG. SHARE BROKERS
The Investment Advisory Bureau has reopened its
list for subscribers. Due to the overwhelming demand for
membership we have granted an extension of this sub-
scription until the end of June, 1960. You all will be
notified of OUR VITAL INFORMATION relative to
your future investment on receipt of your cheque.
Memberships will be registered in order of their application
to this office. The outstanding success of the Bureau has
been confirmed by the many clients who have written to
us expresing their deep appreciation of the service we have
rendered. Your immediate attention to this matter will
enable you to enjoy a greater income through the sound
advice given by the Bureau concerning your investments.
We have as yet not forecast one stock that has not risen.
Please fill in the subscription coupon below. You will be
notified from time to time.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Investment Advisory Bureau,
Suite 19,
377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Cl. Victoria.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order
for £5/5/- for 12 months’ subscription.
Name. ..... *... .i............
Addre55. ........ ..................... 81 -
Please transact business of share buying or selling with your
own sharebroker.
profit was equivalent to a
return of 11.3 p.c. on the
average ord. capital, compared
with 12.7 p.c. in the preceding
year. Six years ago it was
22.4 p.c.
Renovations to the co.’s
properties last year cost £1341,
taken out of reserves. Another
£2OOO was paid to the staff
fund, reducing the reserves and
undistributed profits to
£263.791.
Part of the explanation of
last year’s fall in profits was a
“steep increase in operating
costs’’ which had more than
offset a “substantial increase”
in turnover.
Paid capital remained un-
changed at £241,500 in ss. ords.
(15s. units were split-up in mid-
December "last), including
21,000 ss. employees’ shares:
1958. 1959.
Paid capital .. £241,500 £241,500
Reserves .. 264,081 263,791
Overdraft . .' 88,807 116,338
Creditors and tax
provision . . 1 86,288 86,728
Staff fund .. 19,595 19,943
Final div. . . 12,075 12,075
£712,346 £740,375
Land, buildings,
plant .. 163,000 167,154
Stocks on hand 111,555 100,703
Debtors, etc. . . 435,217 469,914
Shares in other
cos 2,424 2,424
Cash .... 150 180
£712,346 £740,375
Except for appreciable rises in
bank overdraft and sundry
debtors, the balance-sheet did
not vary much. Working-
capital was ample at £338,137.
Net tangible asset-backing
worked out at 10s. sd. for each
ss. ord.
R. H. Gordon’s financial
position appears sound enough,
but the growth prospects look
very modest at the moment and
these are a key factor in to-
day’s sharemarket valuation.
In the circumstances the co.’s
scrip fares well, considerably
better than in 1958, fetching
Bs. 3d. for each ss. unit. The
immediate return is 6.1 p.c. on
the basis of the steady 10 p.c.
div.-rate.
McDowells, Ltd.
T ast term went well for the
-"-“'busy and prosperous Sydney
department-store proprietor,
strategically located on the
corner of Sydney’s bustling
George and King Streets.
Turnover for the year was
once again reported to have
been “an all-time record.” Net
earnings improved appreciably
although still below the 1955-
56 boom level.
McDowells is remarkably
quick in publishing its figures.
The annual accounts are
released a month after balance-
date. However, little reveal-
ing insight may be gained
from their perusal. Turnover is
not disclosed and it is not the
co.’s practice to show the year’s
tax-slug, although a figure for
taxation provision is carried
among the liabilities. Still, the
shareholders have little to com-
plain about.
Consolidated net profit for
the year ended February 29,
1960, was £13,247 higher at
£112,613, after writing-off a
steady £10,300 for depreciation.
This covered the tiny pref.-div.
(£800) and 17.4 p.c. on the
unchanged average ord.
capital:
Parent Co.
1 Dividends •, Re-
Feb. .Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.*
£ £ £
’54..101,330 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 53,491 512,505
’55..122,022 8 „ 15 „ 53,491 581,036
Assets revalued, £175,635.. 756,671
’56..110,213 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 53,491 813,393
Reserves capitalised, £175,635 637,758
Share premiums, £117,090.. 754,848
’57..106,023 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 90,081 770,790
Parent and Subsidiary.
Net addition on consolidation
after deducting intangibles 828,029
’58.. 97,251 8 p.c. 81,299 843,981
’59.. 99,366 8 p.c. 12ip.c. 81,299 862,048
Net addition reserves, £l.. 862,049
’60..112,613 8 p.c. 12ip.e. 81,299 893,363
* After deducting intangibles, £7346 at
28/2/’6O.
The results compare with 15.3
p.c. a year ago. The ord. div.
remained steady at 12| p.c.,
absorbing £80,499 and includ-
ing the traditional 6d. per share
“bonus”. Reserves received
£31,314 and were disclosed at
£893,363, after taking-off £7346
intangibles (excess of book-
value over par-value of shares
in subsidiary).
The co.’s balance-sheet
reflected a strong financial


There’s %
no doubt,
that’s
VAT
69
;|§
■
m
m
*/
W
m
by
m
->'
, ■
y '
.K-SJJfr. y •,>:
©
VAT
Ipt , Tk& sfccMjdt) out-
BY APPOINTMENT
SCOTCH WHISKY OISTJUERS.y
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN LIIJABCTH il
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD
69
a*, h.
r
Between
Ourselves
Rs
m
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
position. Borrowings on mort-
gage were reduced by £BO,OOO
to £182,000. Deposits increased
by £47,781 to £105,137, but
bank accommodation and
creditors were slightly lower:
Consolidated Accounts.
Paid capital—- 1959. 1960.
Pref. .. £lO,OOO £lO,OOO
Ord. .. 643,996 643,996
Reserves .. 862,048 893,363
Mortgage .. 232,000 182,000
Overdraft .. 60,188 56,425
Deposits .. 57,356 105,137
Creditors .. 219,115 213,004
Tax provision . . 122,613 130,839
Final div. .. 48,700 48,700
£2,250,016 £2,283,464
Freeholds .. 1,294,861 1,301,633
Plant .. .. 259.598 258,293
Stocks .. .. 289,704 294,271
Mortgage .. 60,000 60,000
Shares other cos.,
etc 54,286 63,731
Debtors.. .. 272,645 284,877
Cash, etc. .. 24,922 20,659
£2,256,016 £2,283,464
Stock-in-trade and sundry
debtors (“conservatively
treated”) appeared at some-
what higher values. Liquidity
position was fairly satisfactory
on book-values, with the work-
ing-capital amounting to
£105,702.
Paid-capital has remained
unchanged since the one-for-
two bonus-issue and one-for-
three cash-issue in 1956. There
are 10,000 20s. prefs. and
643,996 20s. ords., all f.-p. Net
tangible asset-backing worked
out at 475. lOd. for each 20s.
ord. on the consolidated
accounts.
McDowell’s 20s. scrip fetches
545. 6d. The immediate return
is 4.6 p.c. on the basis of the
steady 12| p.c. div.-rate.
Western Queen (1936)
N.L.
Speculative fever in early
1954 sent Western Queen
shares to Bs. despite the fact
that the co. had no interest
in the oil boom. The tin and
tantalite deposits worked by the
co. at Greenbushes (W.A.)
were not activated by ’Change
hysteria, and in 1955, after
extensive sampling had
revealed a disappointing ore-
body, mining operations
ceased.
Retreat from Greenbushes
involved disposal of mining
options, plant, equipment, etc.
A buyer was found in Tin and
Strategic Minerals, Ltd., pur-
chase consideration £17,000.
Of this amount £8487 was
written-off as a bad debt last
term.
Western Queen has a share-
capital of £600,000 in 1,200,000
Is. shares. The co. has never
paid a dividend. At balance-
date (May 31, 1959) chief
assets, and good ones, too,
were cash £lBO6, deposits and
debentures with Custom Credit
Corporation £12,000, and
120,000 Is. stock-units in Hill
50 Gold Mine, N.L.—the
market values this holding at
£45,000, latest prices.
Total income during the
year amounted to £8485 ;
£BOOO in tax-free divs. from
Hill 50 and £485 from Custom
Credit. But after deduction
of directors’ fees £5OO, secre-
tarial expenses, etc., £998, bad
debts £8487, and £BOOO trans-
ferred to special tax-free div.
account (£67,192 at balance
date), the p.-and-l. appropria-
tion debt itself was £9500
greater £83,174 altogether).
Total shareholders’ funds were
£44,041 (down £1500).
Maintenance of present
levels of income, dependent!
on divs. from Hill 50 Gold,
would allow distributions of
up to 12 p.c. on par-value of
holdings, excluding, however,
further participation in un-
profitable mining ventures.
The co. holds 125,000 fully-
paid 4s. shares in Day Dawn
Gold Pty., and recent testing
has disclosed ore-values up to
45dwt. at 3200 ft. Outside the
Golden Mile, Kalgoorlie, this
constitutes the greatest depth
at which such values have been
discovered in W.A. The price
of gold is fixed at a low level,
and so far. Day Dawn has not
been able to raise finance for
what must prove a very large
undertaking.
Western Queen is at present
trying to secure a substantial
interest in the exploration of
a goldmining area. Its shares
are selling at around par.
A. E. Goodwin, Ltd.
A ided by three licensing
agreements with U.S.
firms, A. E. Goodwin, Ltd., is
able to offer Australian col-
lieries a “complete mine-
mechanisation service.”
In addition to the McNally-
Pittsburg Manufacturing Corp.
and Denver Equipment Co.
licences secured earlier, A. E.
Goodwin has obtained manu-
facturing and agency rights
from the Jeffrey Manufactur-
ing Co. of Ohio, U.S.A.
The new agreement covers
shuttle-cars, continuous miners,
coal-cutters, loading-machines,
mine-type fans and blowers,
cutting-machines, chain- and
belt-conveyors, rotary drills,
face- and roof - drilling
machines and mine-locos.


Not a Bank but Safe as a Bank
CUSTOM CREDIT
NOTES
4 years.... 7%
3 years.... 6Va%
2 year5....6%
18 months .. 5Va%
12 months .. 5V«%
9 months ..
6 months .. 4’/4%
3 months .. 3 3 /«%
14 days' tall .. 3'/a%
Interest is paid in equal quarterly •
instalments, tree of exchange, on
the last days of June, September,
December and March.
A copy of the Prospectus covering this issue
of Custom Credit Notes has been lodged with
the Registrar of Companies, Sydney
The Prospectus and Forms of Application
for Notes are now available from
All Members of
The Stock Exchange ,
All Branches of
The National Bank
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
All Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. ’Phone: FM 5861
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE
CCN.1V.440 ’
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
■fTDHiLE 1957 was “almost a
* record” year for migration
from the U.K.,' with about
230,000 migrants, the figure
for 1958 fell by nearly 40 per
cent, to 142,000.
The reason, according to the
fifth report of the Oversea
Migration Board, was a deteri-
oration of conditions in the
receiving countries. Canada
had a recession and high un-
employment. Depressed world
trading conditions were felt in
New Zealand and in the Feder-
ation of Rhodesia and Nyasa-
land. But Australia, happily
“not greatly affected by econo-
mic troubles, pressed-on with
its full migration programme
throughout 1958, and emerged
as the only country which in-
creased its intake of U.K.
migrants.”
An interesting disclosure on
the quality of U.K. migrants
appears in the Canadian sec-
tion. In previous years it was
not possible to arrive at an
occupational breakdown be-
cause the statistics were ex-
tracted on a basis of “ethnic
origin,” which meant that those
designated as British came
from all over the world; but
from January 1, 1958, they
were collated according to
“country of last permanent
residence.”
Of the total of 24,800, 45 per
cent, were housewives, children
and other dependants, while of
the balance of 13,650 “workers”
of both sexes, about 25 per
cent, were classified as in “pro-
fessional occupations.” T h e
U.K. component in certain
selected occupations is des-
cribed as “unusually interest-
ing.”
Disproportionate
Although in number only
one-fifth of the total of all im-
migrants to Canada, the U.K.
supplied:
Professional occupations .. 46 p.c.
Electrical engineers .. .. 55 p.c.
Teachers and professors .. 58 p.c.
Physicians and surgeons .. 51 p.c.
Nurses 59 p.c.
Clerical occupations .. .. 50 p.c.
Manufacturing, mechani-
cal and construction .. 14 p.c.
Domestic servants .. only 8 p.c.
General laborers .. only 4 p.c.
Why the disparity? Because
of the shortage of professional
people in Canada and the very
high salaries offered, even after
making allowance for the higher
cost -of - living. Furthermore,
most of them probably had
negotiated their jobs individu-
ally beforehand, unlike the un-
skilled workers from the Con-
tinent.
All work at the London end
in connection with the Austra-
lian Survey of U.K. Migrants
has been completed. This took
the form of confidential inter-
views of a sample of • about
1000 assisted “migrant units”
whose fortunes will be closely
followed for at least two years
after their arrival.
The numbers of returning
emigrants “are small and do
not indicate that there is any-
thing fundamentally wrong
with conditions in the receiv-
ing countries.”
Small-town Hysterics
It is ast.onishing to learn
that, as late as 1925, at least
one American State had a law
on the statute book forbidding
the communication of Charles
Darwin’s theory of evolution,
but it is not surprising that two
young American dramatists
should have thought to drama-
tise the cause celebre which
followed the arrest of a school-
teacher who expounded the
theory to his pupils.
“Inherit the Wind,” by
Jerome Lawrence and Robert
E. Lee, has now reached the St.
Martin’s Theatre after a suc-
cessful “in the round” produc-
tion at an intimate theatre at
Croydon.
If conflict is the essence of
drama, the potential is at once
seen to be tremendous: the
teacher’s courage and intellec-
tual integrity against long odds
of bigotry and misunderstand-
ing; the stupidity of prohibitive
legislation; the sharp conflict
between the self-satisfied “Bible
Belt” of the South and the en-
lightened, free-thinking North;
the intervention, as opposing
advocates, of two famous
American public figures; the
inevitable loading of the scales
of justice against the defen-
dant, and, not least, the intro-
duction of a “dangerous” sub-
ject, religious scepticism, on the
stage.
Though there are compelling
sequences and exciting twists
in the duel between the two
advocates (originally William
Jennings Bryan and Clarence
Darrow) the evening is dis-
appointing, largely because the
authors and producer have
travestied, lamentably, the
small-town citizens with their
moronic chatter, hands-in-air,
self-righteous indignation and
allegiance to a symbolic parson
of fanatical cruelty.
Moreover, the teacher is so
pure as to be characterless, and
his one lay friend, the parson’s
daughter, is conventionally
blonde, dark-stockinged and
prim. Another sop to conven-
tion is the breezy, wise-crack-
ing newspaperman who pro-
vides the light relief and whose
original, one learns, was H. L.
Mencken in his prime.
Most of the interest springs
from the duel of wits between
the opposing advocates, given
the names of Matthew Harrison
Brady and Henry Drummond.
Henry McCarthy does well
with the former, bringing out
the parochial side (he is unctu-
ous, longwinded and touchy)
rather than the senatorial, but
it is Andrew Cruickshank, as
the Chicago agnostic, who
keeps the play alight. It is a
performance of great merit, if
not perhaps of distinction, be-
cause it depends so much on
the accumulated experience of
character-acting—spectacles on
nose, roving eye and all that.
The American accents of
this large cast are amazingly
diverse. The paradox, as in all
such instances, is that they
would, on the stage, seem more
like Americans if they avoided
trying to speak like them.


Canecutters' Conflab
They Bred
‘Em Tough
By LES SUCH
Going back to a place
after an absence of
20-odd years can still
be as odd an experi-
ence as his return was to Rip
Van Winkle. Especially if the
place •is North Queensland
(which is different from the
rest of Australia), and if, in
the meantime, you have
changed your way of life, not
by gradual process, but throw-
ing the cane-knife away, in the
middle of a season, as far as
it could be thrown, and vowing
never to toil again.
The vow having been kept,
except for- a spot of man-
handling guns and digging
trenches in the Army, this trip
back to the cane-country is in
the nature of a pilgrimage—an
appointment with youth and
ghosts of the past. Here’s how
it goes . . .
The first ghost comes over
the rail of the boat one night
in Cairns. Even in the dark,
after all those years, you
recognise his walk as he
advances along the wharf. For
six months 20-odd years ago
you’d followed him twice a
day into the cane-paddock, so,
although the spring has gone
from his step and a stoop has
come to his back, you know
him before you see his face.
Old-timer Bert is 63, but
still climbs and lops giant trees.
Together you go up-town to
dig out old-timer Louie, who
is older still, weighs 18st.,
drinks gallons of beer, and is
also still active.
With these two you feel a
boy again. In one of the old
pubs you start to reminisce,
and gradually the adventures of
those years spent in the cane
come back to you like turning
the pages of a book.
'Cirst thing that strikes you
» is the astonishing number
of former friends and acquaint-
To roll a cigarette!
ances that are no longer alive.
A good 75 per cent., you con-
clude. One name leads to an-
other.
“Where’s Johnno Johnson?”
“Died ten years ago,” they
say. “Tree fell on him.”
“Remember Lofty Lana-
gan?” you ask.
“He’s dead,” they tell you;
“bumped himself off in Innis-
fail.”
“And what about Whatshis-
name—you know, Frit z i e
Weissler?”
“Dead, too. Drowned fish-
ing on the Reef.”
“And Spud Murphy—what
became of him?”
“He went to the war and
didn’t come back.”
You nearly sav, “What
war?”—like old Rip.
Talking to these two, and
recalling others, it seems im-
possible that those war-years
ever happened, and that troops
had been through all these
places, which still seem the
same except for their inevit-
able growth.
So it goes on. You learn
that Dutchy Larsen married a
rich widow and now has a pub
in the cotton-districts; Tiger
Regan is growing peanuts on
the Tableland; Sting Lacey was
last heard of in the Isa; Taffy
Lewis has a big canefarm, and
never married, although he
must be worth a quarter of a
million.
And then the inevitable com-
parisons. They don’t breed
’em now like they used to, you
all agree. Why, with these
conditions, you’d make 20- or
30-quid a day. What with all
cane burnt, Rafferty’s-rules how
you cut it, and mechanical-
loaders, these blokes don’t
know they’re alive!
TX/ell, old-timers have been
saying that through the
ages, but this time you know
it’s a fact.
Louie and Bert were guns
in their time—mighty men
who could cut and load 10 to
20 tons of cane in a day, and
green cane at that, with the
cocky squealing if it wasn’t
cut level with the ground or if
too much “cabbage” was left
at the top, and with the cane-
inspector onto you all the time
about the trucks not being
plucked.
If you wanted burnt cane in
those days you had to burn
it yourself—and that carried a
penalty of 15 years’ jail! With
£5OO reward for any informer!
Certainly you earned as
much as five-pounds a day,
and seldom less than two,
which was good dough 30 years
ago, when the basic wage in
the south was a little over three-
pounds a week —but the effort
was unbelievable compared
with present-day standards.
Hitting the paddock at the
first streaks of dawn, and
chasing one another like
maniacs. You even ran to the
waterbag for a drink; you
never walked in the paddock.
The big money was earned
not because of a high cutting-
price, but because the cutter
of that day was a mighty man,
a prodigious worker who could
lift a hundredweight of cane
and run to the truck with it on
his shoulder. And it took
many seasons to develop the
necessary to qualify for a
“gun” gang.
]yo, they don't breed ’em now,
you all agree solemnly.
Well-paid jobs in the city are
too easy to get, and the young
fellows won’t work like that
any more.
You recall the time when a
mutual acquaintance led a
picked gang in a certain district,
burning everything before him
and making colossal pays, fight-
ing with the cane-inspectors
and the mill-management all
the time. You recall that he


became a big-time canegrower,
and eventually mayor of a
town farther south.
Louie was in that gang.
You remember the first
season in the Tully, the wettest
place in the world in those
days, when you cut for six
weeks and the rain never
ceased for an hour of that
time. Dragging on wet clothes
before dawn, and sloshing
through knee-deep mud to the
paddock day after day. And
how you crowded around the
cook under his umbrella at
smoke-oh striving to make a
cigarette that would smoke.
The freezing nights at the
start of a season in the iron
barracks, trying to keep warm
with a hurricane-lamp under
your stretcher. The shock of
the first bundle of frozen cane
on your sore shoulder in the
morning, and an hour after-
wards the sun burning the hat
off your head! Your mind
goes back to the end of a
season when it was so hot that
coming back to the barracks
at the end of the day the only
sound from the gang was the
squelching of sweat in their
boots.
“ A nd d’you remember Thing-
amejig who was paid to
burn down that shop for the
insurance, and used petrol in
mistake for kerosene and blew
himself to bits?”
Yes, you remember. He
wasn’t a bad fellow, but always
wild.
There were quite a few wild
men in those days. The cocky’s
son and the wharfie, for in-
stance, who staged a knuckle-
fight one Sunday morning at
an appointed time
and place as the out-
come of a big wharf-
strike. Half the town
was there to see it
and bet on it, and the
cars were lined-up
for a mile.
The police stopped
it eventually, but
both men died within
a year as a result of
it.
And there was
Whatshisname, who
was shot and killed
in the big sugar-
strike ; and poor old
Whosit, who died
from tetanus before
the serum was avail-
able. He was a great
bloke, too, but also
wild . . .
Yes, undoubtedly
those were the days.
You all look round
the bar .. . Now,
those young half-
axes over there—
Into it!
how long would they have
lasted in those days? Not five
minutes!
You’re all convinced of this
by now; you’re getting worked-
up. Actually, there were quite
a few then who didn’t last long.
Many cut cane for a few days
or a fortnight, and gave it away
for anything but that . . .
IYText day you take a run
through the cane districts
in a modern car on good roads
that used to be gravel and sand,
picking out familiar spots.
You pass a cane-barracks
that looks like a bungalow.
Refrigeration, electric-light, in-
ner-spring mattresses. Even
pot-plants on the veranda.
When it was illegal.
In the old days a cane-
barracks was a *long iron
humpy, and all the cocky
supplied was stretcher-beds, a
stove, and wood and water,
And the cook cut his own
wood for the stove.
Nowadays, instead of climb-
ing aboard a horse, the cane-
inspector mounts a Land-Rover
equipped with two-way radio,
Well, well. Time must march
on, you suppose, so all you can
do is go back to Sydney and tell
people what you’ve seen,
But they don’t breed ’em like
they used to. They don’t have
to.
IN THE OLD N.T.
T3I ight on the beam about the
banks that operated at what
was then Palmerston and is
now Darwin, a Bulletin item
takes me away back to the mid-
1880’s.
As a boy with his cobber
seeking entertainment from any
source, the pair of us were in-
trigued one day to see the
manager of the E., S. and A.
sit on the lowest step down
from the bank’s front-door,
place an ingot of smelted gold
on the footpath before him —
which ingot had obviously been
cast in a deep saucer or in the
bottom of the crucible in which
it was melted—and then, with
an engineer’s hammer and a
cold-chisel, proceed to cut it in
halves, and into quarters.
His only other audience was
a Chinese. To my inquiry,
“What for?” the manager said,
“To see there are no iron
bolts, nuts or stones in it.”
Having accomplished that job
—and it was hard slogging on
a hot day —they turned back
into the bank and we followed,
saw each piece subjected to an
acid test, and then the lot
weighed by a set of gold-scales
—there was over 41b.
At this stage we were noticed
and ordered out. We went, but
we waited, and shortly after-
wards we saw the Chinese
leave the bank with a smile
that was childlike and bland,
betokening a satisfactory trans-
action.
At that time most, if not all,
of the English-owned gold-
mining companies of the 1870’s
had closed-down for good, and
the Chinese—each of whom
would have paid the poll-tax to
be entitled to right of entry
to the Northern Territory of
South Australia—were in full
possession, picking the few
remaining eyes out of the work-
ings, finding new leads of the
precious metal (which soon
petered-out) and making a pre-
carious existence fossicking and
dollying their findings to sell
them to one or other of the
banks at Palmerston or send
them home to China.
There still is gold in the N.T.
where you find it, but Rum
Jungle is not now the great
“potential enigma” that it was
then
J.A.V.


HOME VISIT
By GWEN KELLY
1 first met Neridah at the
centre we ran for the
children of Redfern. In
those days I was a Univer-
sity student whose religious
disposition had not yet suc-
cumbed to the arguments of
the free-thinkers.
It was probably the con-
science born of religious
scruples that drove me to
join the band of students who
labored on a voluntary basis
to make the club a success.
We were a mixed batch:
amateur social reformers, in-
cipient psychologists and social
workers, political radicals and
Sunday-school teachers.
There was a permanent war-
den whose job it was to
organise the activities; an
energetic, capable, somewhat
unimaginative woman who
had spent her own childhood
in a semi-industrial area. Hard
work plus intelligence had
attached a B.A. and Dip. Ed.
to her name but left her
essential earthiness unim-
paired. She talked the same
language as the kids and they
loved her.
It was only with the super-
sensitive that she lost ground ;
but then, that had nothing to
do with Redfern. The same
thing would have happened in
a schoolroom in Bourke or
Killara.
A number of the students
were spasmodic attendants.
They turned up for a week or
two in a burst of enthusiasm,
steeped in the paternalism of
their bourgeois backgrounds
and then gently faded out as
their over-tender susceptibili-
ties grew weary of the children
whose noses never stopped
running and who controlled
their disorders with a per-
petual sniff. For those of us
who braved the sniffs, the
ever-pursuing cry of “Miss,”
the undernourished, the
underclad, there gradually
grew up an affection for these
people of Sydney. Their in-
corrigible humor, their jaunti-
ness, their unacknowledged
courage were things we came
to love.
Many of them were not badly
housed. It is only town beauti-
fication committees or the
ignorant that think of every
industrial centre as a slum.
The brown - terraced two-
storied houses were old-
fashioned with their balconies
and filagreed ironwork, but
/
they were not as a rule uncom-
fortable. Most of the children
at the Centre had hardworking
parents who kept up a reason-
able, if frugal, existence on
the basic-wage eked out by a
little overtime. They were ex-
perts on stews flavored with
onion. Every Friday, Catholic
and Protestant alike, they
jostled one another in the fly-
specked, overheated shop run
by one of the Agostini
brothers for their weekly
ration of fish and chips.
In the early' ’forties and
’fifties they were more
prosperous than they had been
for years. A number of fathers
rushed to join the A.I.F. in
1939, many of them sailing
in the very first contingents.
The mothers flocked to the
factories, which left the chil-
dren on the streets after
school. This pattern was trans-
ferred to the post-war era. As
a result the children came in
to us at 3.30 looking for com-
panionship. They joined the
age-groups which dabbled in
painting, sewing, knitting and
weaving, or they dropped in
to borrow a book from our
tiny but nevertheless com-
petent little library.
iy|Y group consisted of girls,
aged roughly nine or 10,
not exactly innocent but still
free from the ageing problems
that physical maturity unloads
on these children.
There was Betty, the station-
master’s daughter, neat, well
dressed and selfish. Each club-
day she arrived with a new
plastic toy, a source of envy
and annoyance to the other
children. Her mother seemed
quite incapable of passing a,
shop without indulging her
smallest whim. She was fast
developing an ineradicable
“gimme”-complex.
There was Jess, who shep-
herded her five brothers and
sisters including the baby into
the hall every afternoon. Mrs.
Lynn was too busy with social
work to bother about her own
six before 6 p.m. At this point
of time Dad was in gaol for
10 months, which, said Mrs.
Lynn, was a bit of a break
as she didn’t want to have a
baby that year, no{
with the New Sett-
lers’ League, the pen-
sioners’ meals and
the Church.
“You know how it
is,” she said to War-
den, and Warden
from the depths of
her vicarious experi-
ence agreed she knew
just how it was.
There was Peg,
vivacious, joyous,
with lovely, straight,
fair hair, who got a
permanent-wave for
her eighth birthday.
“Lovely, ain't it?”
she said, pirouetting
for us to admire the
tangled frizz that
constituted the back-
view ; and we obedi-
ently agreed it was
lovely, just lovely.
And there was Hazel, dim-
witted Hazel, who followed
me everywhere, clutching my
skirt, her feeble eyes beseech-
ing me not to desert her ; dim,
watery, grey eyes that empha-
sised the skimpiness of her
mousy hair and her reddened,
swollen upper-lip, scoured and
marked by the nasal refuse
that no one had ever bothered
to remove in her neglected
little life.
But my favorite was
Neridah. She was actually 11
or 12, but she attended school
so rarely that she. spent her
time, when there, with chil-
dren a year or two younger
than herself. In the same way
her attendance at club after-
noons was irregular.
My first contact with her
was through the library. All
my group, urged on by my
own enthusiasm, were regular
borrowers.
“Got any Enid Blytons?”
Peg would ask.
“A school story please,”
said Betty; “one about those
super boarding-schools.”
Jess usually took a book for
tinies, her reading ability
being permanently on the level
of a seven-year-old. Hazel
didn’t read at all.
One week while checking
the back-entries I noticed that
one child, a Neridah Donne-
gan, had had a book out for
three months: “The Little
Black Princess.”
“Neridah?” I queried. “I
don’t seem to remember her.
If any of you know her could


FtUffi lit l/t c
Hufowe
Easter comes again, and Christians turn their
minds to the scene of the Resurrection.
It was my good fortune in 1958 to visit
Jerusalem and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre,
so I shall try to describe briefly the present
appearance of that place which is dear to
every Christian.
in exterior the church is crowded in by the
buildings that mass around it on the narrow streets
of the Holy City. But there it is—an edifice built,
destroyed, rebuilt, ancient; central symbol of an
ageless Faith.
It encloses both the Holy Sepulchre and the
site of Calvary. They are fewer than fifty
yards apart.
By turning right from the entrance and
mounting a flight of steps, I came up to where the
three crosses stood on the hill-top. The way to
the Sepulchre leads to the left from the entrance;
in to where eighteen huge pillars support a dome
ninety feet high and sixty-five feet in diameter.
Under this canopy stands the mausoleum
containing the Tomb of Christ. The frontal section
of the mausoleum is known as the Chapel of the
Angel, at the centre of which is a stone claimed
by tradition to be part of the stone used in closing
the Tomb.
A low opening, which one must kneel to enter,
connects this chapel with the Sepulchre itself. The
Tomb, along one of its sides, is covered with slabs
of marble. It is about five feet long, two feet wide,
three feet high.
To visit this shrine is a most vivid and moving
experience for any Christian. Millions of believers
come to worship and to pray there throughout the
year, and now at Easter it will be a focal-point for
the Faith and Hope of hundreds of millions scattered
across the Earth.
On a stone marking centre of radial dimension
in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, at a location
half-way between Calvary and the Tomb, >is an
inscription in Greek which reads: “Here is the
Centre of the World.”
////a
Easter, 1960.
you tell her to drop in after
school?”
“We don’t see her much,”
had the deep, shiny, black hair
on the City-side. She don’t
come across very often. Thinks
she’s grown-up.”
I nodded, recognising the
barrier of Cleveland Street.
The City was the wrong side
of it, an area that these young
denizens of Sydney didn’t like.
They had their own snobberies
and prejudices. They definitely
disapproved of this crowded
section huddled between the
car-parks and shops of George
Street and the hotels and
homes of Cleveland Street.
“I see her at the dance,”
said Jess. “She comes down
with her Granny every Friday.
I’ll tell her then.”
'T'HE following Tuesday I was
disturbed by a voice
whose Australian accent had
not yet managed to quell the
Celtic lilt.
“I’m Neridah Donnegan,” it
said; “I brought back the
book.”
I looked up to see a thin,
overgrown child who could
have been my own sister. She
had the deep, shiny black hair
of my father's family, the
same green-grey eyes as my
eldest sister, eyes with lights
in them. There the likeness
ended. Her face was far too
peaky but she was, even then,
potentially beautiful. The
mouth was long and well-
shaped and when she smiled
her upper lip moved slowly
back from a row of even
lovely teeth. Her hair was
caught by a bright-red ribbon
and the pink cotton frock was
far too light for the May after-
noon. She smiled as I looked
up and I felt instant liking for
this thin, dark girl.
Perhaps my liking, in the
perverse way of human beings,
deepened because I knew she
was no favorite of Warden's.
Neridah’s inner reserve, her
latent sophistication irritated
her.
“She doesn’t tell the truth,”
she said to me, settling herself
against the gaily - colored
cushions splashed around her
own living-quarters. “Take
that story about her mother.”
I laughed. We all knew
Neridah’s chief fantasy.
“My mother,” she would say,
“lives in the country on a
cattle station. Like the little
black princess.”
In fact, Neridah’s mother
had walked-out on her long
ago. Neridah’s arrival had
made her marriage necessary
in the first place. Her own
mother had seen to that.
“Without the wedding-ring,
my girl, you’re never sure of
the maintenance. You needn’t
think I’m going to keep you.”
When her husband shot-
through within two years of
the ceremony leaving her with
two small daughters, she
picked up an amiable truck-
driver and went to live in sin
in some other quarter of
crowded Sydney, taking the
baby with her. Neridah’s
grandmother found she was
left after all with at least part
of her daughter’s upkeep,
namely Neridah.
“Understandable,” I said,
lighting a cigarette and blow-
ing a puff at Warden. “If
your mother skipped out you’d
probably supply a substitute,
too. That’s what I like about
Neridah. She’s sensitive,
imaginative, yet mature.”
“Mature all right,” sniffed
Warden. “I'd call it plain
tough. You've seen where they
live. You've met Granny.
Their source of income isn’t
exactly moral, you know. And
Neridah's in it, too, 1 reckon.
Who’d pick that dried-up old
hag when they could have the
girl? Believe me, Lyn, Neridah
knows more about life than
you’ll ever know. She’s a
certainty for Parramatta.”
“What of it?” I said huffily,
and walked out.
It was probably true.
arden knew her kids. I re-
called Neridah’s home. The
street where she lived was so
narrow that even the asphalt
was cool. In other streets the
sun beat down with a ferocity
that softened the footpaths
and left tiny bubbled patches
that spread a tarry perfume
about them. The smell in
Neridah’s street was stale and
damp.
Two lines of old brick
terraces stood facing one
another, almost touching, fol-
lowed by a grey, broken-
paling fence that sheltered a
rusting junkyard. Old pieces
of steel rubbed shoulders with
brass bath - heaters, ancient
gas-stoves and worn-out gar-
bage-tins. On Neridah’s side
of the. street there appeared
to be a brick wall. It was only
when you came closer that
you saw the doors pressed
into the wall every few yards
and opening a good two feet
below the footpath.
I had to admit I didn’t like
Neridah’s grandmother. We
all made a point of getting to
know the children’s parents,
so I dropped-in one afternoon
after lectures. From the
moment she opened the door
I felt my skin prickle with
(Continued on page 44)


Africa's " Winds of Change"
When British Prime Minister
Macmillan told the South Afri-
can Parliament two months ago
that the winds of change were
blowing through Africa he was sounding
a note of friendly warning to the Ver-
woerd Government that its racial policy
was out of step with the march of events
elsewhere in the African continent. But
it is likely that his other purpose (and
the chief reason for his African tour)
was to assure the restless African people
in the territories of East, West and
Central Africa that the United Kingdom
was in earnest when it claimed to be
aiming at eventual self-government and,
if desired, independence for British
colonies and protectorates in Africa.
After discussing the awakening of
national consciousness in former subject
races in Europe, Asia and Africa, Mac-
millan said:
The most striking of all the impressions
I have formed since I left London a
month ago is of the strength of this
African national consciousness The
wind of change is blowing through the
continent. Whether we like it or not,
this growth is a political fact. We must
accept it as a fact; our national policies
must take account of it; we must come
to terms with it. If we cannot, we may
imperil the precarious balance between
East and West on which the peace of the
world depends.
Earlier, in Ghana, Macmillan had said:
These are exciting'days for Africa. New
nations are emerging, and in all this
Britain has played a great part. I think
few would deny that Britain has played a
constructive part not only in Africa but in
the vast areas of the world throughout what
we now call the Commonwealth.
The African independence movements
were probably inevitable once the former
colonial territories in Asia had achieved
independence, but the speed with which
the movements developed at first took
the Colonial Office by surprise. For that
matter the pace of events in Asia since
the end of World War II has been some-
thing not visualised by the map-makers
and policy-makers of the years before
the war.
Example From Asia
tyyHEN war broke-out in Europe in
1939 few people could have ex-
pected that within three years of its
ending India, Pakistan, Ceylon and
Burma would be independent republics.
Yet these four countries,, before coming
under British rule, had a history extend-
ing back to before the Christian era,
with indigenous cultures and civilisation
of a high standard, and were the birth-
place of two of the world’s great
religions. The African colonies, in con-
trast, had little in the way of a cultural
past arid no traditions of national unity
before coming under European domina-
tion. Their boundaries were in most
cases arbitrarily fixed by the colonising
Powers without any great regard for
ethnic or tribal demarcations. As a
result there has been much confusion
of objective among African leaders, some
of whom are content to aim at inde-
pendence for their own area while others
look to a Pan-Africa as the ultimate goal.
One who plans to use the lesser objec-
tive (already attained) as a stepping-
stone to the larger one is Nkrumah,
Prime Minister of Ghana, though his
obvious ambition to be the leader of
the African empire he advocates has
not endeared him to his next-door
neighbors in Nigeria, due to attain
Dominion status in a few months time.
At AH Stages
A T the present time British colonies
(and former colonies) in Africa
represent all stages along the road of
self-determination from Crown Colony
to independent State. Of the countries
which are or have been under British
rule Egypt and Sudan are independent
nations; South Africa and Ghana are
independent Dominions and may become
republics at any moment ; Nigeria,
already self-governing on a regional
basis, will achieve full Dominion status
as the Federation of Nigeria next
October. In Central Africa the future
of the Central African Federation which
takes in Southern Rhodesia, Northern
Rhodesia and Nyasaland, is now the
subject of an investigation by the Monck-
ton Commission. Southern Rhodesia, the
only portion with a white population of
sizeable proportions, has had respon-
sible government for many years ; the
other two partners of the Federation are
still at the Legislative Council stage of
development.
In East Africa —Kenya, Uganda and
Tanganyika—progress is also at the
Legislative Council stage and here
again big changes are under discussion.
Although there has been a great
speeding-up in the tempo of African
advance to self-government the actual
procedure has followed the general pat-
tern long ago established in other parts
of the Commonwealth. And the pattern
wasn’t evolved specially for what used
to be called “native” races. It was pain-
fully developed step by step to meet the
demands of transplanted English, Scots
and Irish communities in Canada and
Australia for a bigger say in the conduct
of their own affairs. It can be admirably
illustrated by recounting the pattern of
progress in N. S. Wales. Experience else-
where differed in detail, but not in
essentials.
How It Works
Thirst came rule by a Governor
-*■ responsible only to the Home
authorities. Then (in 1824) came the
establishment of a Legislative Council,
the members of which were appointed
by the Governor. To begin with all the
members with the exception of John
Macarthur were Government officials,
but the non-official members were
gradually increased, and by 1829 the
fourteen-member Council was equally
divided between the two groups.
In 1843 a big advance was made. The
Council was enlarged to 36 members,
of whom only 12 were nominated, the
other 24 being elected. In 1856 came
the final step —self-government, with a
bicameral Parliament.
Summarised, the pattern is this:
Arbitrary rule by a Governor respon-
sible to the Colonial Office ; a nominated
Legislative Council, almost entirely
composed of Government officials; a
leavening of non-official nominees; a
majority of non-official nominees; a
partly elective, partly nominated Council
with elected members finally in the
majority ; a fully elective Assembly,
with or without a Council.
At the end of World War TI most
African territories were still at the stage
where official nominees were in the
majority in the Legislative Council, yet
by 1957 Ghana was a full-fledged
Dominion. In Nigeria the transition has
taken a little longer owing to differences
among the constituent parts of the
colony.
By a complete reversal of what
had been the official attitude in pre-
war days the first African colonies to
attain self-government have been those
in which the white content of the popu-
lation is smallest. Bowing to what Prime
Minister Macmillan called the winds of
change, the British Government threw
overboard the old belief that the African
was npt yet fit for self-government and
must be slowly guided towards that goal.
In Ghana and Nigeria from now on any
guiding necessary must be offered as
coming from a friend, not a master or
even a fatherly guardian. Uganda and
Tanganyika»seem likely to follow the
same path before very long.
Difficulties
HThe, relatively few whites in all these
territories are mostly officials or
traders, for whom Africa is in most
cases a temporary residence only. Far
more difficult is the problem of finding
a just solution for the future government
of Kenya and the Rhodesias, where the
population includes considerable num-
bers of white settlers, many of them
born in the territory, to whom Africa
is their only home.
The problem is to find a plan which
will do justice to the national aspirations
of black Africans without sacrificing the
human rights of white Africans —and
of Asian Africans, who in Kenya num-
ber more than 160,000.
In South Africa the Verwoerd Gov-
ernment assumes that this can’t be done.
The British Government's attitude is that
it should be possible, and that the
attempt must be made, seeking the good-
will of all sections of the community
to make it work.
The agreement reached in London by
45 of the 50 delegates to the Kenya
Constitutional Conference a few weeks
ago encourages the hope that the winds
of change in that part of Africa will
be favorable winds and that there’ll be
no return to the gale-warnings of the
Mau Mau period.


Start the day right!
»>
vi »9
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE M ARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM 0. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. O. S. PETTERSEN, Manager.
Bran dies in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The A.J.C, Carnival
This coming weekend—
Easter Saturday and the holi-
day Monday—it’s the £6OOO
Doncaster and the £2500
w.-f.-a. Autumn Stakes on the
first day, and the £12,500
Sydney Cup (including £5OO
Gold Cup) and the £4OOO
Adrian Knox Oaks Stakes,
distance classic for three-
year-old fillies, as the features
of the second day.
• • • •
For the Doncaster: In Love,
I ; French Descent, 2 ;
Martello Towers, 3.
Sydney Cup: Macdougal, 1 ;
Nilarco, 2; Grand Garry, 3.
One winning favorite in 10
years is the Doncaster line of
invitation, or threat, for
punters, but they’ve done a bit
better in the Cup, with four
favorites landing the money
in that time. Solitary Don-
caster favorite to win in the
decade was Grenoble at 6 to
4 two years ago; the Sydney
Cuppers were Straight Draw,
Sailor's Guide, Carioca and
Sir Falcon. Sailor’s Guide, by
the way, is still winning in
America, and his total stake-
money now tallies over
£lOB,OOO, of which £66,000
was earned before he went to
the U.S. J. Thompson, who
landed last Saturday’s big
Invitation Stakes on Valerius,
has three Doncasters (Slogan
II twice and Oversight) and
two Sydney Cups (Sir Falcon
and Dark Marne) to his credit.
Racing at Randwick today
(Wednesday) is unlikely to
shed any fresh light on Don-
caster or Cup, but last Satur-
day’s run by Stormy Passage
—here from Adelaide, after
tiptop Melbourne form —may
have been a pointer. Stormy
Passage finished brilliantly in
fourth place in the Cropper
Handicap. Macdougal and
Nilarco raced well in third
and fourth places respectively
in the Invitation Stakes, and
were made co-favorites for
the Cup. Valerius and Grand
Garry (runner - up) firmed
sharply as equal second-elects,
with Essayist and Gulf Boy
also popular at time of writing.
There’s sure, though, to be
attractive and keen racing to-
day. The card includes the
£3OOO w.-f.-a. Queen Elizabeth
Stakes, to be run over the
mile-and-threequarters course,
and the £2500 Champagne
Stakes, over six furlongs, for
the two-year-olds.
In the opening-day A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes the
odds-on Star Kingdom colt
Sky High (11 fo 2 on) handed-
in a run that made the seven
furlongs look a bit far for
him. He had, however, had a
fairish number of runs lately.
The good filly Wenona Girl
won it in grand style, her
time, 1.24 f, close to the race
record, 1.233, made by Ajax
back in 1937. She gave her
three opponents a start and a
beating, and must be rated the
best two-year-old filly for
many years. Last of her sex
to win the Sires’ Produce was
True Course in 1950.
• • * •
Saturday’s big and altogether
most interesting event, the
£10,250 Randwick Centenary
Invitation Stakes, turned-out
the great race it promised to
be. It brought starters from
four States and from New
Zealand, and was a triumph
for Frank Dalton and J.
Thompson, as Valerius was
trained to wonderful trim and
was as finely ridden as he was
trained, winning handsomely
for A.J.C. chairman Sir Alan
Potter and former committee-
member Keith Mackay. Grand
Garry (second) ran his best
race since coming from Bris-
bane, while Macdougal (third)
drew marked attention to his
Sydney Cup chance (he should
go even better over the two
miles, even though he has 91b.
more to carry). Valerius will
have many Sydney Cup
admirers, but to date he has
raced best at 12 furlongs.
Kerrydale had been regarded
solely as a sprinter until recent
starts, though Harry Darwon,
who took him over when S. V.
Kensit paid 2000gns. for the
Delville Wood (imp.) horse,
reckoned he’d do Well as a
stayer. On Saturday the four-
year-old had his first win
beyond one mile, leading most
of the way. It made an
opening-day staying-double for
Delville Wood, sire also of
Valerius. Fimbriata, dam of
Kerrydale, is by Agincourt
(imp.) from Portulaca by
Marconigram (imp.).
Three - year - old Waitful
showed quick improvement to
win the mile A.J.C. Princess
Handicap for fillies of her age-
group : 10 days earlier she’d
been beaten into second place
in an Improvers’ event at
Kembla Grange, also run at
one mile. No doubt her
featherweight of 6.12 —she was
ridden by promising appren-
tice C. Underhill —helped the
filly to victory. Pique (third)
had to lump 9.7, but that didn’t
stop punters from making her
an odds-on favorite. There’s
no doubt they’re a hardy breed
—Pique made it half-a-dozen
or more losing odds-on shots
ih succession. Waitful is by
Bold Buccaneer (imp.) from
Acceleration by Hua from
Jennybrook by Midstream
(imp.).
• • • •
There was a field of 19 in
the Vaucluse Handicap on
Saturday, and by way of a
fitting wind-up to a grand day’s
racing more than half of them
were stretched across the track
almost in line coming to the
post. Right at it Achnacary,
ridden hard by Mulley, won by
a nose from Moon Raider, with
Gay Port a short-head away
third, half-a-head in front of
Troy. In fact, less than four
lengths would have covered 14
of the runners as the line was
crossed. A great result for
A.J.C. handicapper Ken Good-
win. Well worth noting that
runner-up Moon Raider was
away back in the field at the
home-turn —a finish right out
of the ordinary.
• • • •
Shy Prince, narrow winner
over Prince Karin and Top
Hennessy in the midweek
Canterbury Park 93-furlongs
Maiden, is a three-year-old
gelding by Aqua Regis from
Lady Bashful, a mare by Hall
Mark from Chase March by
March Along (imp.) from Lady
Whittingham by Lord Foote.
Aqua Regis had a second
winner at the meeting—Aqua
Fortis, who’s partial to the
track, having won four races
there. This time he won the
Flying in a close finish from
warm favorite In Love, with
Olympiad third. In Love
carried 9.7, but drops to 8.8
in the Doncaster. Time for the
six furlongs, 1.117/10, was
close to Todman’s best,
1.10 9/10, made last December.
Tomorrow (Thursday) is
third and (final) day of the
Inglis annual sale of yearlings
at their Randwick stables. The
balance of the total 573 lots
to come under the hammer
include progeny of Delville
Wood (imp.), Double Bore


c AceJAmdti < A/7/A -
fAfi JAAMtf Q (p/iof/%
fA
Wherever you travel you will find "White
Label" Dewar's Scotch Whisky.
This is the Scotch which has earned the
world-wide reputation for unvarying excel-
lence and distinctive character.
\ '
rs-, '
m
♦
«/
Wa
m
White Label
Finc Scotch Whi
John Dewar & Sons U
Sc 01LANP
DWIII
big ben, London. Photo: British Travel Association.
White Label
Dewar's
Scotch Whisky
-it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
(imp.), Byland (imp.), Rush
(imp.), Pan II (Fr.), Bob
Cherry (imp.), Good Brandy
(imp.) and Wilkes (imp.).
# * #
At Moonee Valley
It was not a particularly good
day’s racing at Moonee Valley,
and many an ear was kept
cocked towards the broadcast
descriptions of the big events
at Randwick. However, there
were one or two leads to the
M.R.C.’s Victoria Handicap
and Sandown Cup,
That Dhaulagiri was beaten
into second place by Gaybao
in the Shannon Handicap was
due to one of the odd ways in
which a horse can lose a race.
Murray Stebbing, the appren-
tice who rode Dhaulagiri, told
trainer Brian Courtney that his
mount took fright at the antics
of Gaybao in his starting-stall,
and jumped backwards when
the gates opened. He’s a pretty
good colt, Dhaulagiri, but not
a lucky one. His last five runs
have yielded four seconds and
a third. The distance of the
Sandown Cup will suit him.
For the Sandown Cup:
Dhaulagiri, Y; Saranover, 2;
Nether Gold, 3.
• • • •
Gaybao improved remark-
ably to defeat Dhaulagiri and
Mac in the Shannon. His
chance in the Sandown Cup
can’t be ignored, but a better
race for him will be the Ade-
laide Cup next month.
Pakenham trainer Ray Web-
ster was at peace with the
world after Nether Gold’s third
in the first division of the
Eitham Welter. On a track
made heavy by the day-long
drizzle, Nether Gold carried
9.6 from seventh into the short
straight to be a close-up third.
The aged Rolled Gold gelding
was the surprise-packet of the
spring racing, when he ran an
excellent race in the Caulfield
Cup (although unplaced) and
followed that with seconds in
the Moonee Valley Cup and
Melbourne Cup. With two
runs since his summer spell,
he should be cherry-ripe for
the Sandown Cup, in which he
drops to 8.7. White Archer,
who bobs up every now and
again in this type of race, won
the first Eitham.
One would hardly expect a
horse beaten in his last four
starts at Pakenham. Burrum-
beet, Mornington and Yarra
Glen to win a metropolitan
race, but Lake Albert did when
he took the second Eitham. It
was the first time the six-year-
old Observatory gelding had
won a city race, but, apparently
on the strength of a good
gallop during the week, he was
quite well supported. It was
also a first city win for trainer
J. Meek. Former Bendigo
apprentice, . Lyle Harbridge,
now a fully-fledged jockey
living in Melbourne, rode Lake
Albert very well.
One lesson Melbourne pun-
ters never seem to is
that form at other tracks is
not much use when applied to
Moonee Valley. Last - start
Newmarket winner Correct was
apparently a natural warm
favorite for the Mentone Han-
dicap, bflt he had won the
Newmarket with a brilliant
finishing run from 11th at the
two furlongs. A horse just
can't do that sort of thing at
the Valley. In winning, Un-
quenchable earned a trip to
Adelaide for the Goodwood
Handicap next month.
An interesting innovation at
Moonee Valley was the erec-
tion of catwalks to all starting-
barriers. Some 30ft. long, they
run at right angles to the
barriers, and allow the starter
to survey the field and decide
the moment of starting without
reliance on signals from attend-
ants.
❖ * *
The Trots
On the first night of the
Easter Carnival at Harold Park
last Friday a crowd of 19,000


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
TO ELLEN JUNE ASHBURNER.—
TAKE NOTICE that RICHARD
WELSHMAN ASBBURNER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 916 o>f 1959
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards Ifi you wish to defend you may-
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry in the Supreme Court Mint
Building Macquarie Street Sydney by
the 17th June 1960 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
ALAN BLUM & COMPANY, Solicitors,
of 8a Piccadilly Arcade, Sydney.—-
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
STOP
SWOLLEN JOINTS
GETTING WORSE
START TODAY
TAKE
OPMC Hi i IsFolnKel
PALE BLUE ENGLISH PILLS
GET QUICK RELIEF
from tlie intense pain of Gout—Rheumatism —Sciatica-
Lumbago Fihrositis and Allied Complaints in the
FINGERS TOES WRISTS ANKLES KNEES
ELBOWS. This special COLCHISONE treatment
BANISHES URIC ACID which in most cases is the
cause of the inflammation and pain. ONE LARGE
BOTTLE of 50 PILLS is usually sufficient, with some
reserve even in the most severe cases, 30/-. There is also
a small bottle of 25 Pills for 17/6. Each size contains a
valuable Purine Food Chart. Do not rub inflamed joints.
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
Made in England—Australian Distributors
CHARLES AGENCIES (AUST.),
230 Commonwealth Street, Sydney.
saw Enzedder Dundee (20 to
1) prove too good for a field
of sprinters in the Flying,
breaking Gorrelate’s 9fur.
170yds. race-record by fsec.
Dundee, whose mission is the
£5OOO Lord Mayor’s Cup of
13fur. 98yds. next Friday, week
(April 22), had a recent wm
over 13 furlongs at Auckland,
with two other placings from
three starts since. Another
record was broken (by j-sec.)
in the Trotters’ Handicap,
when Amazing Numba poked
half his neck in front of Vic-
forian Hurry By on the post.
Two heats of the Easter
Handicap and three of the
Carnival were run, with further
heats of these, the Country
Three-year-old Championship,
a £lOOO Free-for-all and a
£lOOO Trotters Cup due to-
morrow (Thursday) night.
* * *
Other Sports
St. George, who had looked
like again dominating Sydney
Rugby League this year, took
a battering and a belting from
Manly-Warringah in Saturday’s
encounter at the Cricket
Ground 22-10, the win better
indicated by the Seasiders’ six
tries to two. Moreover, St.
George went down in all
grades, which might not be a
guide to the shape of things to
come, but at least could boost
morale in other teams and im-
prove keenness all round. In
Saturday’s other games North
Sydney, with four tries to none,
also had a much better win,
over Eastern Suburbs, than the
scores, 16-10, would suggest
(Easts’ points all came per
Gordon Clifford’s boot); simi-
lar good kicking by Kevin
Considine kept Newtown just
ahead of Balmain, 18-15 ;
Wests walloped Canterbury-
Ban k stow n 31-20. In the
Sabbath game Souths crushed
Parramatta 16-3.
* * *
Ozone, or some other Irish
element, must be extra-strong
this year, the Manly Rugby
Union boys also having a good
win in trouncing University
31-6 on the Village green.
Northern Suburbs, though
“Help! Help! Help!”
HELP - HELP - HELP
“Gee, what a beaut echo!”
going a bit slack, didn’t do
much more than scrape home
against Parramatta, 20-17;
Gordon, showing improved
form that would have had the
A.J.C. stipes onto them, bril-
liantly beat Randwick 18-11 ;
Drummoyne easily accounted
for Easts, 21-13; St. George
beat a willing Eastwood, 16-6.
* * *
“Lismore Leaguer”: I ex-
pect that one - time Rugby
Union wild man “Wild Bill”
Cerutti is having a quiet laugh
to himself. He was up in this
part of the N.S.W. North Coast
recently, and in the inevitable
natter over League and Union
virtues Bill said League would
be quite a game if it adopted
the Union play-the-ball rule.
We Leagueites decided to try
it out, and asked Bill to give us
the low-down. It was strictly
a private show, and Bill went
into it with great gusto. When
we were tackled and grassed
and hugged the ball Bill
charged in boots-and-all and
we groaned. We reckon the
Union rule that a player must
roll clear immediately he is
grassed would be a beaut one
for League. It would cut out
the sluggards, make the game
non-stop. Maybe Bill could be
asked to give the Leagueites a
demonstration? We’re sure
he’d enjoy it. Come back,
Bill—we’ll be ready next time,
4c * *
Jim Sheedy, of Gundagai
(N.S.W.), is an ordinary run-
of-the-mill golfer. But, play-
ing on a Sydney course against
professional Dan Cullen, he
holed-in-one at a par-three
127yds. green. Nothing re-
markable in that? All right.
Next day Sheedy was playing
again against Cullen, and when
he came to the same hole he
observed, “Well, I did it in
one yesterday, and if they
haven’t shifted the hole I can
do it again today.” Same
stance, same shot and —may
the 19th go dry! —the ball went
straight as a die to finish in the
cup. It’s claimed to be an Aus-
tralian record—and possibly
not only Australian.
* * *
“Farinmail”: They could
have done with a photo-finish
camera at the end of the inter-
state schoolboys’ carnival—by
beating South Aus. outright,
N.S.W. won from Queensland
by 0.02 on averages. It
took schoolmaster scorers more
than half-an-hour to figure it
out. Dunces.
* * *
On a slack Nepean, Sydney’s
Head of the River was well
won by Shore, rowing better
than to have deserved going
into the books for slowest time
on record. Scots a fair second,
High a close third; the rest
somewhere away back down
the creek. High and Joeys
respectively home in the first
and second fours; Kings a
double in the other two . . .
In Vic.’s Head of the River
on the Barwon it was Geelong
a canvas ahead of Wesley, with
Scotch next. The other vic-
tories Were spread around:
Scotch ; Geelong ; St. Kevin’s ;
Wesley ; Xavier.
* * *
“Rayander”: Queensland
lass Pat Duggan proved that
her win in the Australian 100-
metres women’s championship
final was no fluke when she
won the 100-metres Rotary
Health for Youth Carnival
event in Brisbane, beating
Betty Cuthbert and Norma
Fleming. l On these runs she
must have a grand chance of
winning a gold medal in the
Olympiad 100-metres.


UNCABLED
ADDITION S
TROUBLE IN SOUTH AFRICA
~p ditorial comment on the
riots at Sharpeville and
Langa, where South African
police fired on black Africans
demonstrating against the
Government’s pass-laws:
Manchester “G u a r d i a n”:
“Hitherto it has been possible
to argue that disturbances were
caused by mistrust among non-
whites and by ‘shebeen’ trouble,
as in Durban, or by economic
grievances, as in the bus-boy-
cott. [The Sharpeville] clashes
are in a different category.
They were the result of a
deliberate act of protest by
Africans against oppressive
legislation exemplified in the
pass-laws.
“Until peace has been re-
stored and an inquiry held into
the disturbances no one can
say to what extent, if at all,
the Africans brought the vio-
lence upon themselves by the
manner of their protest. Their
soundest leaders have always
opposed violent provocation
and have insisted that resist-
ance must be peaceful. How-
ever sorely they are tried, the
Africans should follow that
advice while ever they can.
But no one can deny that their
protest was legitimate.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “The
shooting-down of 50 or 60
black Africans is the greatest
indictment yet of the racial
policies of the [South African]
Nationalist Government.
“These policies are rooted jn
violence. One has the impres-
sion that the Government uses
the maximum of force to cow
and subjugate the Negro
people. Machine - guns and
armored-cars have been used
in the latest rioting, and there
was even a demonstration by
war-planes.
“A community held together
by violence must be expected to
explode in murder, riot and
sudden death. Apartheid is
itself an act of force. It does
violence to human rights and
assaults the personality.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune”:
“The struggle for racial equality
has dominated the world in the
last decade. Everywhere the
African (or the Asian) has
exacted from the old masters
the admission of human parity,
if nothing more. Everywhere,
that is, but South Africa.
There the last 10 years have
witnessed increased repression
and, indeed, practical enslave-
ment.
“Like all such policies, this
one has been publicly justified
by lofty but shamefully meretri-
cious pronouncements to con-
ceal the real motive —the in-
surance of a large supply of
cheap, captive labor.”
* * *
Mrs. Margaret L. Friend, in
a letter to London “Daily
Telegraph”: “I am not a sup-
—London “Daily Herald.”
LEARNING THE HARD WAY.
porter of the Government in
South Africa—my husband is a
United-party senator—but let
us be just. Any policemen of
any country, when surrounded
by a howling mob, will fire.
Many policemen are killed
every year.
“The average South African
policeman is a good, long-
suffering fellow. I know what
he has to cope with. I have
many a time rung the police
when our Africans fight among
themselves. Many of the
people are anti-Christian, and
any white man or a decent
black man is an enemy.
“So I think it is time that
people here realised what our
[S. African] Government is up
against. We have thousands of
primitive people to deal with,
many coming from the other
British protectorates. We arei
not the thugs some people
think, but a people with many
problems. It would be good
for many people to come and
live in South Africa, and then
they would realise what our
difficulties are.
“An amazing lot is done for
the African, more than in any
of the British protectorates. I
know my facts and figures. A
little tolerance with us, please.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”
editorial: “Foreign observers
may wonder why, when the
relatively moderate [African
Nationalist] Congress is virtu-
ally immobilised under the mis-
named Suppression of Com-
munism Act, the militant Pan-
Africanists have been permitted
to organise their elaborate and
dangerous campaign. One is
left with the suspicion that it is
the moderate Africans whom
the Union Government most
fear, and that the kind of
demonstration that can be dealt
with by diving Sabre jets is not
altogether unwelcome to them.
It is easier to send armored-
cars round the native town-
ships of Johannesburg than to
answer Chief Luthuli, the
Congress’s rusticated president,
when he tells his white fellow-
citizens: “We do not want to
kick you out of the country
and we do not want to marry
your sisters: all we want is a
fair deal in our own country.’ ”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “It
is easy to understand why Dr.
Verwoerd banished Chief.
Luthuli. He is too obvious a
refutation of racial theory. The
Pan-Africanists who organised
[the] demonstrations fit into
Dr. Verwoerd’s picture rather
better. He can more plausibly
claim that they are irrespon-
sible and uncivilised. Extrem-
ism breeds extremism.”
* * *
London “Spectator”: “In
South Africa there can be no
doubt where the blame lies.
South Africans may be in some
doubt still whether (to quote
the ‘Times’ correspondent’s
verdict) Dr. Verwoerd ‘is a
Moses of a chosen people, or
merely a charlatan of genius,’
but it is easy from this d stance
to see that the ‘success of the
confidence-trick he has played
on the m’—persuading them
that apartheid is the answer to
race problems—is a fraud.
Apartheid is not merely ethic-
ally repulsive and economically
impracticable: it is creating a
community which each week
falls deeper under the shadow
of fear; fear of revolution, of
violence, and of sudden death/’
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“The worse the situation be-
comes, the more important it
is not to turn away and leave
it to South Africa, as if it were
a private indiscretion to be
tactfully ignored. A house on
fire is everybody’s business.
We see a Government, which
has maintained itself in power
by dubious Constitutional
means when it might have
fallen, now carrying out a
social policy in which people
of our own white race act as
zoo-keepers towards Common-
wealth citizens of the large
Negro race, in the face of the
world-wide resentment of both
races.
“If the caged inmate snarls
the keeper shoots. In the most
literal and deplorable sense the
immediate victims are the dead
at Sharpeville. But all the
white race and its institutions
are the victims and the losers
in the long-run—and it may
not be so long as we think.”
"Gay Red
Phrase-book"
TCdinburgh “Scotsman” flips
•*“' through the pages of a
“gay red phrase-book” which
many of the Soviet visitors to
the U.K. carry with them:
“A casual dip into this little
volume reveals engaging facets
of the Russian mind. It is not
veiy surprising to find listed
such conversational gambits as,
‘We should like to talk to the
workers of the factory,’ or ‘We
want to see the new types of


NOTHING EQUALS
l WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY!
ffWwiiwin uriumwinium
s- *
warmray
. _ ’TRADE MARK RCGO. MW
• TRIPLE PURPOSE
• SLOW COMBUSTION
• AIR CONDITIONING
HOME HEATER
STANDARD
'H.D/
has over 7,000 cu. ft.
heating capacity,
equipped with a non-
jamming shaker
grate.
■k BURNS ANY SOLID
FUEL AND NEED
NEVER GO OUT.
MK
★ Beautifully enamelled
on solid cast iron, Model
H.D. introduces a new mottled
CERAMIC GREY, a matching tint for the
contemporary or traditional home.
HAWAIIAN CREAM is also available.
Owing to fu«l saving the "Warmray" ACTUAIIY COSTS
NOTHING! Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
mb
Installs in rooms
with or without
fireplaces
Model No. f
Super De Luxe
★ Capacity
Over 10,000
cu. ft.
★ Special large
firebox for
long burning.
★ Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the
patented Heating Tubes (illustrated
below) which are built into the firebox.
The' air in the room passes through these
tubes continuously, thus maintaining an
even, overall warmth.
WORLD PATENTED
HEATING TUBES MAKE
THIS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL AND
BEST ROOM HEATER OF
THEM ALL, REGARDLESS
OF PRICE
m
TUM*
British Ministry of Power and Fuel gives Warmray am
efficiency rating of 83%.
★ BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Imitated?? Often!!
Equalled?? Never!!
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributor*
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray”, ❖25-2216.
If unobtainable locally, ’phone, write or call
for illustrated brochure and name of nearest
L
agents.
WAR/102-32
J
reinforced-concrete structures.*
These are requests which one
would naturally expect to come
from any decent, well-brought-
up Russian tourist. And one
can readily understand why
such a tourist would want to
ask, ‘How long does the smelt-
ing-operation take?’ or ‘Where
do you get the ore from?’
“More unexpected is the
question, ‘Where can one listen
to an orchestra of Scottish
national instruments?’ We had
all better be prepared for
teasers like this. Come to think
of it, where can one listen, to
such an orchestra? There
would be no point in directing
a Russian who wanted to listen
to a bagpipe-symphony to the
Usher Hall on Friday even-
ings.
“We must be prepared for
our guests from Moscow and
Leningrad to show a keen
interest in sport. One of the
questions is, ‘Do you play
golf?’ As things are at present,
one, if asked this question,
would be as well to treat it as
stemming from purely dis-
interested intellectual curiosity
and not as an invitation to play
a round on the Old Course.
“In a way the most reveal-
ing statement in the book is,
‘I want to learn the rules of
cricket.’ If the Russians really
do want to learn the rules of
cricket, then it appears as
though things were beginning
to look up. A Russian who
had fully assimilated the rules
of cricket would never be the
same man again. During the
Summit Meetings we may hear
of a Soviet delegate halting the
proceedings by quoting the old
Russian proverb, ‘lt isn’t
cricket.’ ”
Ceylon's Elections
/Commenting on the results of
Ceylon’s general elections,
the Manchester “Guardian”
notes that “there was a risk in
holding elections only six
months after Mr. Bandaranaike
was assassinated and less than
two years after the island was
torn apart by bloodthirsty com-
munal riots. But it was a risk
that had to be taken if Parlia-
mentary government was to
survive, and the people of
Ceylon have brought it off.
“First, they have ensured
that the elections were in fact
held in spite of the Govern-
ment’s disinclination. Secondly,
they have voted in quietness
and order. Thirdly, they seem
on the whole to have rejected
the extremists on Right and
Left, and Mr. Philip Gunawar-
dena’s appeal to both —to the
Marxists and the Buddhist
nationalists —won him only 10
seats. Fourthly, they have
shown, by electing only four
members of the Prime Minis-
ter’s party, how tenuous was
his support in the country ; a
Government so unpopular
could not have maintained it-
self in power without dictator-
ship.
“A fifth service they might
have rendered their country
would have been to give one
party or another a large
majority, so that it could form
a strong Government without
having to make the coalition
bargains that so often made
Mr. Bandaranaike’s course
tortuous. This (and they can-
not be blamed for it) they have
failed to do.”
However, London “Financial
Times” holds that, although the
new' Prime Minister, Mr. Sena-
nayake (United National
party), will not have much
room for manoeuvre, “the pro-
grammes of the two major
parties were strikingly similar.
“Both favor a policy of non-
alignment in foreign affairs and
are committed to making Cey-
lon a republic within the Com-
monwealth. Mr. Senanayake’s
first action as Prime Minister
was to hold a press-conference
and reaffirm his opposition to
the nationalisation of foreign-
ow'ned plantations.
“The difference with the
Freedom party in this respect,
however, is primarily theoreti-
cal. The Freedom party be-
lieves that nationalisation of
the foreign-owned plantations
would be desirable, but not im-
mediately so, for it is well
aware of the difficulties which
such a step would have en-
tailed.
“The two main problems
which face Mr. Senanayake are
first of all to construct a stable
Government and then to use it
in order to restore mutual con-
fidence between the Sinhalese
majority and the Tamil
minority.”
London “E cono m i s t’s”
Colombo correspondent sees
the election-results as showing
“both a conservative reaction
against the extremism and in-
discipline of the recent past and
a vindication of Mr. Bandara-
naike’s more effective policies.
“On many important issues
—language, economic and
foreign policy, and so on—Mr.
Senanayake and others have
had to adapt themselves both
to Mr. Bandaranaike’s achieve-
ments and to his failures. If
the elections have taught the
United National party any-
thing, it is that Mr. Bandara-
naike, despite the opinion of


Cartoonist Schaenfeld’s comment, in “B.Z.” (West Berlin ),
on Moscow’s tactics with the black African nationalists.
The quarry here is Sekou Toure, of Guinea.
the upper-middle-class to the
contrary, has retained an emo-
tional hold on the people.
Although it was a martyr’s
death which sanctified his
name, he had already prepared
the ground for his myth; he
was an aristocrat who became
the champion of the common
people.
“Mr. Senanayake will have
to do his own myth-making
or, rather, myth-breaking. If
he is to succeed in this, his
second attempt at the Premier-
ship, he will have to show that
the United National party is
not a rich man’s party and that
the stability he promises does
not mean security for the
privileged, but social justice for
all.”
Bishop Walsh
■Crom the “New York Times”:
-*■ “Bishop James Edward
Walsh of Cumberland (U.S.A.),
may spend the rest of his life
in a Chinese prison for offend-
ing the Red China Government.
At 69, he has been a servant
of the Chinese people and of
his Church for almost half-a-
century. All of us, of whatever
religion, can share in admira-
tion for Bishop Walsh and in-
dignation for the cruel 20-year
sentence inflicted upon him.
“An associate, the Very Rev.
John F. Donovan, vicar-general
of the Maryknoll Fathers, said
of him: ‘lf love is a crime,
then he is guilty; if opposition
tp a brutal and tyrannical
regime is a crime, he is guilty;
if allegiance to his Church is
a crime, then he is guilty.’ In
the raw, bitter Communism of
mainland China most of the
civilised virtues are crimes and
the Sermon on the Mount is
full of treason.
“Secretary Herter s protest
vvill litt|e wei ht with a
Govcrnment which charges ollr
° wn Government with an ‘im-
perialistic scheme to subvert
the Chinese people’s democratic
ime , But outrages such as
< his may well be remembered
when somebod »' int l uires wh y
« d “"°‘ d China ”
rhin«e 4 m h. u v R t?
Arabassad or Wash-
Dragnet Digest
London ‘‘Daily Express”:
“Mr. Bulganin draws his pen-
sion. For him the golden
handshake. Not an extrava-
gant amount, it may be ad-
mitted. About £l3OO a year
for Minister Bul-
ganin, as compared with the
£2OOO a year which an ex-Prime
Minister draws in Britain.
But Mr. Bulganin has one com-
pensation. He is the first
Russian Minister of rank to
retire on pension. He is a
pioneer of more tolerant days.”
* * *
E. Heskell Smith, in London
‘‘Time and Tide”: “There are
as many ideas for the future
of Africa as there are leaders,
and they are often shaped by
tribal loyalties and territorial
disputes. Added to these is the
struggle for power within com-
munities such as that which is
taking place behind the scenes
in Kenya. Moves are afoot on
the part of some of Tom
Mboya’s African colleagues to
curb his rising power. Indeed,
it is said in African circles that
behind the refusal of the
African-elected members to
join the Government lies the
desire to keep Mr. Mboya out
of the Ministry of Labor. This
fear of Mboya’s power is
reported to be the reason be-
hind the. demand ‘Give us back
Kenyatta.’
“If all these personal and
national differences are allowed
to grow and flourish, the Africa
of tomorrow may well be a
happy hunting-ground for
Moscow, which has a genius
for accentuating grievances.
Russia will gladly see Africa
balkanised, since it would give
her the opportunity to extend
her own influence.”
* * *
Joseph Als o p, in N.Y.
‘‘Herald Tribune”: “In the
Nasser-Castro type of fervently
nationalist anti-colonial revolu-
tion there seems to be an in-
herent, inescapable need for an
enemy. If Israel and the
sinister Anglo-Saxon Powers
did not exist, Nasser would
have to invent some other
target for his paroxysms of
vilification. If the United
States did not exist, Castro
would have to invent some
other target for his paroxysms.
“This need for an enemy is
not especially mysterious, and
it is not a symptom of inherent
wickedness. The radical trans-
formation of a corrupt, com-
placent, ill-organised, semi-
colonial society is a hard, diffi-
cult task. It can only be carried
through on a strong tide of
national emotion. The easiest
way to generate this tide and
to keep this tide running is to
choose an enemy, and then to
stage a non-stop drama of
national reconstruction boldly
carried through despite this
enemy’s sly plots and subter-
ranean sabotage
“This system has worked for
Nasser. It may work for
Castro. But it is mightily dis-
agreeable if you are the chosen
enemy; and the United States
has been allotted this ungrate-
role by the Cuban revolu-
tion.”
* *
London “News Chronicle”:
“The Africans will win in the
e nd. The question is how
much blood has first to run to
waste? History has placed the
Boer people in a position where
even their heroic obstinacy
mUSt , 2 y * people
apart, but they cannot escape
consequences of living in
the 20th cent ury. That is a
clinical, not a moral judgment.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “If
Western countries teel the
need to have Japan as a part-
ner, as they do, there are some
ftps that they must consider
to g, . ve H>at partnership full
meaning to the Japanese At
7“" the Un,ted Sta e f s allo ™ s
the Japanese most-favored-
nation treatment under Gatt,
although gentlemen’s agree-
ments keep American imports
of the most sensitive products
within bounds. But Britain
and most West European coun-
tries—West Germany is an ex-
ception—refuse the Japanese
—London “New Statesman.”
“VIVE LE CO-EXISTENTIALISM”


You cant see
the bank
in this picture...
• hut it's there /
1
BS*
The C.B.C. is “In the picture” of almost every
industry in Australia. It provides modern banking
facilities, including those of the C.B.C. Savings
Bank, for all engaged in industry and for every
member of their families.
Ask your nearest branch of this Bank to explain
how these facilities and services can help you.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
(DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANYI
most-favored-nation treatment;
and they have been reluctant
to include Japan in the Devel-
opment Assistance Group for
fear that the Japanese might
then demand their rights under
Gatt. Yet, just as British
opinion now has to face-up to
its responsibilities in accepting
West Germany as an ally,
sooner rather than later it
must recognise what it ought
properly to do for the
Japanese.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“What is astonishing today is
the total absence of indication
of what the issues [in the U.S.
Presidential election] are going
to be. None of the candidates
appears to stand for anything
in particular, in terms of either
domestic policy or foreign
affairs. On the present show-
ing the Presidential campaign
seems likely to be fought be-
tween two varieties of smile
and profile, almost between
two varieties of masculine sex-
appeal.
“The pity of it is that the
primary system encourages this
kind of political beauty-com-
petition; indeed, makes it
almost inevitable. In advance
of the party programme being
drawn up, personal charm is
the only-quality a candidate
can offer.
“To some extent the Ameri-
cans themselves have to take
these contests seriously, even
if they are ‘eyewash.' The rest
of the world, however, would
be wise to regard them as one
part of the American way of
life which they can safely
ignore.”
Various Voices
Sir Roy Welensky: “The
process of aid to under-
developed areas is in many
ways a race against time.
Stability will not be maintained
and allegiance not guaranteed
unless political progress is
based on the well-tried stand-
ards and precepts of the older
West and matched with the
real social and economic at-
tainments which this implies,
and for which there are no
substitutes.”
* * *
lain Macleod (Britain’s Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies):
When we and the Government
talk about changing an empire
mto a family we do not see
the future as a series of Dun-
kirks, of gallant, prolonged,
bitter, rear-guard action. I
believe it is our high destiny
to help change and to sustain
it. It is in multi-racial coun-
tries that tensions are apt to be
most marked. Tensions that
are not only political but some-
times economic, educational
and social as well. Yet from
these different threads we must
weave one nation.”
* * *
Lord Hailsham: “We must
be on our guard against erosion
by nibbles. Freedom and
justice can be destroyed by a
whimper as much as by a
bang. When I contemplate
the hideous weapons of both
sides which, even in my par-
tially informed state I know to
have been invented, I regard
either a world authority or
total disarmament in the long-
run as the only rational objec-
tive —and of the two I have
regarded the first as the more
rational.”
* * *
G. Keith Funston (president,
New York Stock Exchange):
“The American economy is
the eighth wonder of the world;
the ninth wonder is the econo-
mic ignorance of the American
people.”
* * *
Mr. Nehru: “We must not
regard China as an adolescent
nation. She has been adult for
centuries, but has been pre-
vented until lately from enjoy-
ing adult status because of
domestic strife and external
interference. The trouble is
that she is now claiming every-
thing she ever held throughout
the long course of history—on
which analogy Rome would
now possess London.”


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/r
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
dislike. She was hard. I felt
it even before I took in the
wrinkled brown skin, the fierce
black eyes, the crafty chin.
Her hair was grey, bobbed and
permed, and a gash of pure
scarlet outlined a mouth that
must have been once as lovely
as Neridah’s.
Perhaps it was the lipstick
that affronted my non-confor-
mist conception of a grand-
mother, perhaps it was the
boldness in the eyes. I felt her
take-in my neat Joyce shoes,
pink linen frock and leather
brief-case. For a moment I
felt young and vulnerable.
There was a touch of con-
tempt in her look as she
probed my essential softness.
“Are you really a student?”
she said. “You look about
fifteen.”
“I’m eighteen,” I replied
stiffly.
“Well, you don’t look it. I
suppose it’s the easy life.
Keeps you young.”
I had no doubt the man
Neridah called Uncle Ted was
Grandmother’s front for a
series of clients. Perhaps, as
Warden suggested, she did
make use of Neridah, too. If
so, I blamed the woman, not
the child. Neridah I knew had
a fierce streak of loyalty that
protected at all costs the old
lady who provided her with
shelter. If Warden’s theory
were true we should never hear
the truth from the grand-
daughter.
Loyalty is a funny thing,
particularly when seen against
the f ra dty 0 f human nature,
j t was not un til the home visit
that j myse if became a victim
of the variegated pattern of
Neridah’s personality,
. ~ , . x ,
the regular workers take
c . 1 dtcn foi an
occasional weekend: Get them
a™y from the dirty streets and
eternal picture-shows, we said
Show them a different sort of
—flowers, gardens.
When my turn came I, of
course, took Neridah. She
fitted easily into the household,
I had no mother, but my sisters
made her welcome while my
father, susceptible to the family
resemblance, was charming. We
spent the evening playing ludo,
interspersed with snakes-and-
ladders, while Neridah tried to
work out which of us was my
father’s woman.
“It must be one of you,” she
said firmly, as I strove to ex-
plain we were all daughters.
“Every man has a woman. It’s
only natural.”
The following afternoon we
went for a walk, not without
argument.
“I always go to the pictures
on Saturday afternoon.”
“Not this Saturday.”
“I’ll miss the serial.”
“’Fraid so.”
“I don’t like walking.”
“It’ll do you good,” I said.
It was a lovely afternoon, the
gardens just coming into spring
bloom. Below us the green
slopes rolled away to the dis-
tant river. From the road, we
could see the Bridge, a minute
blue-grey arch in the central
distance. Coming up from the
river a steam-train puffed and
labored, but the sound reached
us only as a drowsy murmur.
We passed close to the footpath
some of the more luxuriant
gardens, and Neridah began to
pick the flowers. Slipping her
hand through the fence she
tugged and extracted a bunch
of multicolored poppies, roots
and all.
“Don’t,” I said. “You'll
spoil the flowers, and what’s
more, get me into trouble.”
“Why?”
"Now they're all gone home, Would you mind getting rid of the empties ,
dear, While I tackle the dishes?”
“They’re not yours, that’s
why. They belong to the man
who lives there.”
“But he has such a lot,” she
said, looking at the earth almost
overburdened with blossoms,
“He won’t mind.”
I gazed anxiously back to
where an irate owner was wav-
ing a garden-fork at us.
“It’s a matter of viewpoint,”
I said. But after all, I thought,
the child is right. What differ-
ence would six poppies make
to that profusion? Still, I had
no desire to be pursued by
fanatical gardeners.
“Look, Neridah,” I said,
“you see that big house on top
of the hill? I know the owner
She’ll give us a bunch if we
ask her.”
She looked at me dubiously.
“Are you sure?” she said.
“Does she really own all that?”
“All that,” I answered.
“One person?”
“Well, herself and family.”
“It seefiis an awful lot even
for one family,” she said.
T had known Mrs. Webster a
long time Her family was
one of the earliest in the dis-
trict. Once her land had swept
right from the heights down
through the valley to the river
bank. Time had encroached
steadily upon the property until
all that was left was an old yet
beautiful colonial house and a
haif-acre of glorious garden on
the highest spot of the hill.
I liked Mrs. Webster, but I
rather hoped Mr. Webster
would be out. Ever since I
was small he had greeted me
too enthusiastically. Arm
around my breast he would
draw me tightly to him:
“How’s my girl today?” he
would say.
He was home, and I received
my usual embrace. As a ruie
I tried to treat him on his own
terms but Neridah’s earnest
gaze disconcerted me. I hastily
drew away, and Mr. Webster
looked offended.
“Feeling touchy?” he said
giving Neridah a similar
squeeze. “You don’t mind, do
you, girlie?”
She laughed gravely and
looked at Mrs. Webster. Mrs.
Webster was a kind woman.


Now in Book-form
"Duke" Tritton's
“TIME MEANS TUCKER”
4 l
Kk.
% \i'>
C»Vv.v.
5
if
«,v;
fcUkPSS
V.
i
/;
K '
,r.
iff™
V?
»-C»A
4:
: :~
This factual account of a shearer-drover’s experiences
in the sheds and on the track has proved to be one of
the most popular serials ever printed in “The Bulletin.”
Reader-demand for the story in book-form has been
constant.
It’s now off the press—and the price has been kept
down to 10s. a copy, post free.
PLEASE USE COUPON BELOW.
Available also over-the-counter from branch offices in
Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.
ORDER FORM
Book Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please post copy/copies of
"TIME MEANS TUCKER"
by H. P. (“Duke”) Tritton
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
Price per copy, 10s.
(Post free) Amount enclosed
She smiled at Neridah as
though unaware of her hus-
band’s arm-circling propensi-
ties. But then—she had spent
her life like that. The Church
and district muttered behind
their hands and dropped vague
hints about her husband’s in-
fidelities, encouraged by her
seeming - blindness to greater
heights of garrulous cruelty,
but she remained impervious
and in time Mr. Webster
always came home to roost.
In her usual gentle way she
was kind to Neridah that after-
noon. She was not one of
those women who treat beauty
as something to be hidden in
dusty cupboards. She served
us tea in her best Shelley cups
on the starched, eyeleted cloth
with the same grace and charm
as she would have served a
duchess. She picked us flowers
from every corner of the
garden.
As the child gazed at the
harvest of loveliness massed in
the box, Mrs. Webster was re-
paid by the look of devotion
in Neridah’s eyes. She tagged
her around the garden chatting
of this and that while Mrs.
Webster listened sympathetic-
ally.
“My mother has a garden,
too,” said Neridah. “She lives
in the country.”
“How lovely,” said Mrs.
Webster, tying back a strag-
gling piece of honeysuckle,
“My mother,” said Neridah,
“is real pretty—just like you,
only younger.”
They smiled at one another
with understanding, and I felt
tangibly the love grow between
them. But love to Neridah
meant loyalty, loyalty meant
protection and, as Warden had
said, life was made up of hard
realities. The floral loveliness
of northern Sydney might have
very little in common with
dusty Cleveland Street, but
Neridah knew that human
beings are the same every-
where.
'lll7'e said goodbye to our hosts,
** waving to them as they
stood shoulder to shoulder on
the wisteria-draped porch.
But halfway down the drive,
disturbed by a nagging thought,
Neridah looked back to her
friend.
“If I were you, Mrs. Web-
ster,” she called, “I’d keep a
good eye on your husband. He
has a nose for the girls. Don’t
let him get away with it.”
Grasping her firmly by the
hand, I hurried as fast as I
could to the gate, hoping the
azalea bushes would hide our
retreating backs from the con-
fused and embarrassed gaze of
Mr. Webster.
THE GROWTH OF KNOWLEDGE
W.A.
/ seem to be at thousand places at a time.
Drunken with light, amazed at my capacity
To split and subdivide.
The dark-fringed room, crowded with pews
Is fading from my memory.
Handwritten, leatherbound books,
Among whose leaves I used to live,
Have long since passed into the hands
Of dealers in antique.
Yet it was only yesterday when father spoke
To me about the worn-out scrolls in which
He made his great escape.
Related how his father dwelt in giant rocks
Till men chain-chiselled him into a fixture.
Light was my aversion, my enemy.
I dreaded the soft hands of monks
Touching me, turning me around,
While their chewing minds materialised
In the wavering flames of candles.
When 1 complained about this to my father,
He told me I was growing up
And not to fear the future.
Now light has become my companion.
One day I will marry the light.
G. DROPPERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Credit and Crime
In an era when thrift is
commonly ignored and the
general principle of domestic
economy seems to be “We’ll
pay for it all, somehow, some-
day,” it’s refreshing—but at
the same time a bit perturbing
—to find the head of the Vic-
torian Police Force issuing a
warning on the potential perils
of the use of credit.
In the March issue of “Police
Life,” the Force’s monthly
news-magazine, Chief Commis-
sioner Porter, referring to the
accelerated use of credit and to
the practice of some retailers of
offering goods on terms which
would have appeared extra-
ordinary in earlier days,
affirms: “This has greatly in-
creased the work-load of police
in sub-districts.” He con-
tinues :
As with other advances in free-
dom and in general living-standards,
there is an added responsibility
to be undertaken. In saying this,
I not only have in mind the cost
of goods plus the interest charges
which go with the undertaking of
buying on credit; I also have in
mind the extra care necessary on
the part of merchants and house-
holders in making sure that the
latter do not commit themselves
beyond what they can afford.
Most police will agree that getting
into debt is a prelude to many
other social evils.
When a person of Commis-
sioner Porter’s standing in the
community, and with his back-
ground of commercial experi-
ence (he was formerly a high
executive-officer in a large
retailing-organisation), feels it
desirable to draw attention to
the potential moral evils in-
herent in the unwise use of
credit it is time for those on
both the giving and receiving
ends of the credit-system to
take notice.
As the commissioner states,
special legislation will prob-
ably have the effect of encour-
aging retailers to take more
care than they have in the
immediate past; however, there
will always be careless house-
holders who buy beyond their
means, if they can. And to
quote the commissioner again :
“Trial-and-error is a very costly
undertaking when it hits the
happiness of the home, and
many people would be well
advised still to practise the old
principle of ‘saving up' before
spending for pleasure.”
Though old-fashioned, the
advice is essentially sound, and
coming from the head of an
organisation whose members
have ample opportunity to see
the distressing side of the over-
generous credit-system, the
commissioner’s comments
can’t be dismissed as exaggerat-
“Well, you've got to give the directors credit for foresight
and faith in the progress of Australia ”
ing the chances that credit may
lead to crime.
For many young people par-
ticularly, and for those retailers
who believe that the end —more
business —justifies any means,
the warning is salutary and
deserved. — Ardoyne (Vic.).
History’s Lifeline
Following the pattern of
quite a few such projects in the
various States in recent years,
the official opening at Port
Macquarie (N.S.W.) next Mon-
day (April 18) of the Hastings
District Historical Society’s
museum has timely significance.
It shows there’s a growing
awareness in Australia of the
fact that preservation is the
lifeline of history—preserva-
tion, that is, in the sense of
proper collation and guardian-
ship of anything and everything
of historical value, not just the
stowing-away of official records
in dusty alcoves where out-of-
sight so often means out-of-
mind.
Also, the Port Macquarie
opening rather belies the
general idea that Australians,
by and large, aren't at all
history-minded. There must
be a goodly proportion who
are, otherwise whence came
the Hastings Society's inspiring
collection of relics of the con-
vict-days, of the pioneer's
household, of forgotten wrecks,
of old-time fashions and fire-
arms? And how came the
sheaves of history-laden docu-
ments and maps, and the 600
old photos depicting past per-
sonalities, long-gone buildings
and early scenes of the district?
For that matter, who saved the
125-year-old building which
houses the collection? 1
We have feature-writer John
Kenny’s word for it, in the
“S.M. Herald” of April 2,
that following the lead from
“notable museums” at Armi-
dale and Lismore “other centres
in the New England regions
are assembling material for
museums.” To which, from
my own knowledge, I can add
the Southern Highland centre
of Moss Vale, where the Winge-
carribee Shire Council, on the
recommendation of its library-
committee, is seriously con-
sidering the same thing.
It’s a definite trend. There
are possibly plenty of districts
throughout Australia thinking
along similar lines. And the
more the better, since the
range of historical material is
so vast and complex, and
localised pooling and preserva-
tion can largely determine to
what extent history is truly an
integral part of nationhood and
a dossier of national habit and
charade r. — Frank Snow
(N.S.W.).
Aust.-Japanese Children
H. W. Forrester’s synopsis
of Japanese activities in the
Bonin Islands (B. 23/3/ '6O) is
interesting in itself, but leaves
so much to the imagination
that any connection with our
present problem of half-caste
Australians in Japan is not
clearly brought out
In any case “great mass of
children” seems to be an over-
statement. There are several
thousands, of course, but scat-
tered among 90 million they’d
be lost. Including American
and other Allied fatherings,
there would be scarcely enough
of them to make much impres-
sion on Japan's cheap-labor
needs.
For that and other reasons
Forrester’s picture of what
might happen to them seems a
little far-fetched; still, the bare
possibility is disturbing and
provides another argument (if
more are needed) in favor of
receiving into Australia such
of these waifs as can be assured
of finding homes here.
Where paternity can be
pinned definitely to a particu-
lar serviceman he should be
compelled to support his child
just as though it had been born
over here. Our Government
should see that this is done;
but it may have no further
positive duty in the matter.
After all, the women knew the
risk well enough, and were
under no compulsion to take
it.' . , *
We ourselves had a few girls
like that during the war, and
we don’t get maudlin about
them or their offspring. How-
ever, we do give the children a
chance to grow-up amongst us
as full citizens, without any
legal disabilities, political or


s
Send for FREE LITERA-
TURE containing VALUABLE
INFORMATION, Helpful Ad-
vice and PROOF of how to
treat your condition at low
cost with an effective
NATURAE FORMULA which
has achieved Australia wide
success. Hundreds of grateful
letters received.
Four weeks’ course costs only
£1 Post Free.
STRATTONS
RHEUMATIC SERVICE,
7 Howard St., PERTH, W.A.
other, stemming from mixed
blood.
The Government sho u Id
enable and encourage private
citizens or organisations pre-
pared to care for these half-
Australian orphans to fetch
them home. To debar them
because of their Asiatic blood
can only bring our White Aus-
tralia policy further into dis-
repute here and abroad, while
to admit the few thousands (or
so many as can find foster-
parents here) cannot possibly
do us any harm.
What the Japanese attitude
might have been towards half-
castes left behind in this
country if we had lost the war
does not come into the picture.
We are concerned with things
as they are; and this is, pro-
fessedly, a Christian country.
—Jas. Macansh (Q.).
Schoolroom Frills
A big “Hear, hear” from this
parent to “P.H.K.’s” statement
that there is a “real need to
fill the school-day with more
hard work” (B. 16/3/’6O). 1
should like to add, “by teachers
as well as pupils.”
After two months’ holiday
our two elder daughters com-
menced their secondary-course
studies on February 9 this year.
After six weeks I took it into
my head to glance through the
books brought home by the A-
grader one weekend.
One exercise-book, half-fuli
of geometrical drawings and
problems, had not been marked
on any page. When I asked
why this was so, I was in-
formed that the teacher “never
takes-in our books. She just
asks if we’re getting on all
right.”
In the case of algebra, pages
of work had been neatly ticked
in red ink. I commented on
the superiority of the algebra-
teacher, only to be met with
the information that she was
the same one and didn.’t take-
in the algebra-books, either.
On the contrary, her instruc-
tions to her first-year pupils
were to do as many algebraic
exercises as they could each
night and check their answers
from those given vat the back
of the book. Our daughter,
rather naturally, was doing
about 50 problems a night and
dutifully ticking them with her
red bail-point.
When I wrote to the teacher
expressing concern about this
method of teaching I was
vouchsafed no written reply,
but a verbal message came
through the child that the term
had only just begun and “things
would be different once every-
one had settled-down.”
It was interesting to note,
however, that the swimming-
sports, held only a month after
term began, were most effici-
ently organised and went like
clockwork, and that the stan-
dard of swimming among the
youngsters was uniformly high.
The “undue emphasis on
‘frills’” that “P.K.H.” men-
tions is the most infuriating
“ Seven-stone-eight-pounds. . .Five-feet-three-inches.. .
Thirty-eight ... Twenty-two .. .Thirty-six ... What's
your phone-number?"
impediment to learning in most
of the schools today.
Back in Victorian times a
schoolgirl who didn’t know her
spelling was sent to bed as
punishment or made to wear
a dunce’s cap. Inability to
spell today is of little conse-
quence, seemingly, to school
authorities. But a spot on the
tunic or a missing glove or an
untidy hair-style rate being
sent down to the kindergarten.
During the first week of the
school-year our two girls spent
two hours a night on home-
work—homework consisting of
covering their text- and exer-
cise-books with clear-plastic
and searching every magazine
in the house for “pretty picture
cut-outs” with which to decor-
ate the covers.
The girl doing the domestic-
science course has attended 10
cooking-lessons and by now
knows that on cooking-days
she must bring her overall,
apron and cap, also newspaper
and flowers. Close uniform-
inspection in this class occupies
a good 10 to 15 minutes. But
our young student’s cooking-
notebook remains neatly empty.
—Pat (N.S.W.).
Incentive Payments
What grounds has “Fiat
Justitia” for saying that an
incentive-payments scheme will
be effective only when it hurts
(B. 9/3/’60)? Does he really
think that the spur to gain
promotion implies suffering?
Does he believe that the lad
who studies to fit himself for a
better job is acting under a
painful compulsion? Can’t he
understand the urge to do
something better than it has
ever been done before? And
can’t he appreciate the deaden-
ing, soul-destroying effect of
unrewarded labor?
Everything worth-while that
we have has been won through
incentive; and when the
human-race finds itself bereft
of incentive it will be replaced
by some mor£ aggressive, more
worthy form of life.
It’s impractical to decry
what “FJ.” terms the “naked
economic value” of a man’s
work. This is the only real,
accepted value we have. It’s
equally wrong to imply that
work's greatest reward is the
knowledge of a job well done.
That may apply to hobbies; it
could apply to general activi-
ties when our civilisation
reaches the stage where every-
one works at a chosen trade in
which he can find his greatest
expression of life’s purpose;
but at the moment it simply
cannot be said that “an em-
ployee who measures his obli-
gations simply in terms of what
he is paid is an unreliable em-
ployee.”
Ask any employer with an
ounce of nous how he would
reward exceptionally good and
conscientious labor. In most
cases there’s only one way in
which he can show his appre-
ciation—by an increase in wage
or salary. That’s how big
firms retain the services of
valued executives ; and a man
who was content with a pat on
the back would find his worth
suspect. It would be assumed,
and rightly, that he didn’t know
his value—one of the signs of
incompetence.
Incentive payments go one
better by giving a definite
promise and assurance that
better work will bring its
reward. It provides an oppor-
tunity for those who do know
their value but are prevented
by economic conditions from
demanding it, or who are being
held back by incompetent
workmates.
Opponents of incentive-pay-
ments schemes are usually con-
cerned with the man who may
be unable to keep up with the
pace. I sympathise with him,
too; but what of the man who
is forced to work under a sense
of frustration caused by the
knowledge that his output is
being restricted and his natural
ability subdued by unconscien-
tious workmates?
And where does “FJ.” get
the idea that “an able and con-
scientious staff is unlikely to be
able to lift its work substanti-
ally”? Even the most conscien-
tious workers can find ways to
increase their output if the in-
centive is there. They can
employ just that shade more
teamwork; they can look for
ways to avoid waste or speed
production where previously
they had left this to the fore-
man or overseer—who, they
reasoned, was paid to do the
job.
It’s useless for “FJ.” to
quote the incidence of physical
illness in America resulting
from economic pressures. This
may result from too many
workers and executives trying
to work beyond their capaci-
ties—something which an in-
centive scheme should and


could be designed to dis-
courage. On the other hand,
you could use Britain’s colossal
health-bill to prove that the
U.K. is a nation of invalids.
America, with its incentive
schemes, is derided in some
quarters as the country where
a man is too old at 40. If any-
one over that age thinks Aus-
tralia doesn’t come within that
category, let him seek new em-
ployment in his own country.
Unless he has some extra-
special qualifications he’ll find
it’s next to impossible to get a
worth-while job.
And then maybe he’ll wish
that for the past 20 years he’d
been working under a scheme
which had provided him with
the incentive to earn a bit more,
to have made fuller use of his
latent abilities, and so to have
made himself less dispensable
to his employer s. —Pieter
Nuyts (W.A.).
Hamilton Hume
Reading The Bulletin’s re-
view of my book No Boundary
Fence (Red Page 23 / 3 / ’6O) I
found it took 225 words to
review Stuart Hume’s foreword
and 400 words to dispatch the
book. I found that Hume was
well educated by his mother;
that my recording of his clashes
with bushrangers was illogical;
that I would have done better
by having a shot at straight-
forward biography; and that I
should have enlarged on the
Hu me-Ho veil dogfight on the
southern track.
Hume wasn’t well educated.
He was seldom at home. He
went to school for a short time,
but learnt little. His mother
taught him the bare essentials
only. “Me mate” is not out
of character.
If the reviewer has a look at
the Yeo Papers in the Mitchell
he'll find that Hamilton Hume
and Rawdon played a major
part with Black Harry O’Brien
in exterminating the Lachlan
bushrangers .after John was
killed.
With regard to biography,
I’m not interested. I want to
get paid for my work. And,
lastly, might I suggest that the
reviewer brush-up his Austra-
lian history and begin by burn-
ing his school textbooks and
studying the contemporary
material available relative to
the Hume-Hovell donnybrook.
Hume’s “Brief Statement of
Fact” produced the primary-
school history on which the
reviewer relies. It was written
when Hume was old and senile
and incensed over the invita-
tion to Hovell to attend the un-
veiling of the obelisk at Corio
Bay and the newspaper-reports
of the speeches. The statement
is contradicted by Hovell’s
journal— not a hint of trouble
there, and it was written-up
daily during the expedition.
Have a look at Hume's report
to the Governor on their
return.
If the reviewer wants “purple
poppycock” he’ll find plenty in
that argument which developed
30 years after the expedition
ended. Why the devil should
I put that into a yarn which
ended in 1840?—Frank O
Grady (N.S.W.).
It is nice to know that I have
not been forgotten by The
Bulletin’s pet elephant, and
I largely agree with the
review of Frank O’Grady’s
No Boundary Fence.
However, others besides The
Bulletin have drawn my atten-
tion to Hamilton’s alleged
illiteracy in the light of his
maternal instruction, which un-
doubtedly would have been ex-
cellent. I think, though, that
Frank is misunderstood when
he makes his main character
speak so carelessly.
When you consider that on
Macquarie’s arrival there were,
to quote The Bulletin, “some
700 unwanted children of un-
identifiable parents,” mostly
around Hamilton’s age, in a
settlement where the correct
use of the King’s English was
probably the last consideration,
it would have been impossible
for a lad of Hamilton’s calibre
to avoid association with them
and many legitimate ones who
were just as bad.
Therefore I can well visualise
c ,
some of the linguistic mud
sticking, and no amount of
parental correction would en-
tirely remove it. If there is a
fault here, it lies with the
handling,
j a j so pointed out to Frank,
after j had read the MS., that
j found it d jffi C ult to imagine
an j r j s h gentleman like Henry
O’Brien, no matter how dis-
traught, crawling around the
back of Humewood slitting the
throats of sleeping bushrangers,
even if he were lucky enough
to catch them asleep. If he
had run them up a blind gully
and wiped them out with rifle-
fire—yes. However, Frank
assured me (and his an-
cestry is unquestionable) “that
with an Irishman it was always
the knife,” whether he was a
gentleman or, as Miles Frank-
hn would have said, “plain
bog-trotting Irish.”
After apologising for any
apparent racial discrimination I
also drew Frank’s attention to
the fact that there was too
much “nigger business’ that
Hume lost too much to Duall.
There is abundant proof that
Hume could, and did, speak
a °d write well. He was a
magistrate for many years, and
I've spoken with many who
knew him. Here are a couple
of excerpts from a letter that
appeared in a Jas. Tyrrell pub-
lication about 1914. Hume and
Sturt were setting-out for the
Darling. Hume wrote:
Should you see young Dunlop,
make my remembrances to him
and te jj j]j m should I catch a
falling star I will send it to him—
°t some other animal,
He went on to tear a strip or
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 586
Across
I—Course1 —Course a dress is disorderly, this maidservant says
so. (10)
6 —Fish pick. (4)
9—Like a wide member in a “cast of thousands.” (5)
10 —Melbourne industrialist has a bit of a paddle which
isn’t at all enjoyable. (8) .
12 — Its men load and unload the Ninety Mile Beach. (4, 5)
13 — Dance outcome of sunbaking zest and vivacity. (5)
14 — Locks to check the flow as the
Scots harvest them; it's not the
follicle in the scalp. (4-4)
15 — Achievement of a trimmer way
in which Brunnhilde might
address her Wotan work of
Wagner. (6)
17 —How is 150 always brainy. (6)
19—Fez sailor barracks for most
of it. (8)
22—Changes agree it’s keen. (5)
24 —Saucy place for crow trees. (9)
26 Pines for study, if age is last. (8)
27 — Play- noisily, but with a spirit
which is very, very good. (5)
28— A tense way taken by daddy. (4)
29 — Alexandretta is to know Doctor
Zero, and no mistake. (10)
Down
1— War-affected collection of a
conchologist left with a pawn-
broker. (5-7)
2 Retired figures I have are wide-
(9)
3 Accumulate half-day beasts of
burden. (7)
4 Barker rings the German philan-
thropist. (2-6)
5 Boasted Edward is advised to
indulge in winter sport. (6)
7 It’s movement—and some six-
footer in love. (9)
8— It used to sail the Tasman for
an interstate beverage. (6)
11 —Humanity associated with 12-
across. (12)
16—What weddings begin to spoil
the little Rhode Island epoch. (8)
18—A crawly toupee given to a
listener. (6)
20 — Benefited by divine interven-
tion, but not so much in bed. (7)
21— More than singles damaged
towers. (6)
23—Objectives are nothing among
American girls. (5)
25—Rocky mountain like this trunk
damaged roots. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 585


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to——
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub
scription is paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
Pensions and Insurance
The argument that since all
citizens are taxed to pay old-
age pensions it would be simply
an act of social justice to make
the pension available to every-
one of pensionable age, irres-
pective of assets, undoubtedly
has wide appeal (B. 30/3/ ’60);
but it is nonetheless fallacious.
No one has a moral right
to be pensioned by the State
in .old age. The Government
that introduced the old-age pen-
sion did so because it con-
sidered it socially advantageous.
It has been maintained for the
same reason.
Even the age-limit, the
property-qualification and the
amount of income a pensioner
can earn are artificial, and
may be raised or lowered at
the whim of the Government
of the day. There is, therefore,
nothing unjust in -certain sec-
tions of the population being
ineligible. All citizens whose
circumstances render them
eligible can draw the pension.
These include everyone really
in need of it.
It is not only in the matter
of the old-age pension that
people often get no return for
payments made. That is also
the case with one who takes
out a fire-insurance policy and
whose house never suffers fire-
damage. A closer analogy is
presented by unemployment-
re 1i e f payments. Everyone
pays; but employers, the pro-
pertied and workers always in
jobs reap no benefit.
The existing method of pay-
ment of the old-age pension is
undoubtedly open to criticism.
It prevents a really generous
pension being given—otherwise,
apart from the cost to the
State, pensioners would be
better off than most people who
have contributed to superan-
nuation-funds or made private
provision for retirement. There
would, in the circumstances, be
a general disinclination to save.
The proper remedy, however,
is not a sudden ending of the
means-test, which would im-
pose a heavy burden on the
working population to the
advantage of elderly people
who made their money in days
of low taxation, but a compre-
hensive system of national in-
surance. — Farinmail (N.S.W.).
“Look and Say”
It sounds as though “Swagi’s”
daughter, who is thriving on
“Look and Say” (B, 30/3/’6O),
is a bright little girl.
The top 25 per cent, of pupils
can learn to read quickly with-
out a systematic course on
phonics because they abstract
from their growing “word
recognition” vocabulary the
principles of phonics. For ex-
ample, if they can recognise
and say the words “pool,”
“cool” and “tool,” when they
meet the word “fool” they can
probably manage it because it
is so like the ones they know
and they have extracted the
usual sound of “oo.”
But the other 75 per cent, of
pupils, particularly the bottom
50 per cent., lack the visual-
lecall ability and intelligence to
see familiar words in a new
word, and so are lost.
On the other hand, even the
average pupil with a sound
phonic grounding has a method
of attacking a new word which
gives him at least an approxi-
mate idea of its sound. The
clue of context will probably
do the rest.
Having tested many pupils,
I have learned to identify those
who have had lots of “Look
and Say” and little of phonics.
Their reading is a mixture of
quick recognition of well-
known words, wild guesses at
the less-familiar words and
stony silence with a strange
new word.
The phonics pupil has a go
at everything and gets close to
the mark on most occasions.
“Swagi’s” daughter “reads
with pride the many books
especially written, in co-ordina-
tion with the syllabus.” This
need for so many books is an
objectionable feature of “Look
and Say.” The phonics pupil
needs no special books with
severely controlled vocabu-
laries. ,
Certainly there must be con-
stant repetition in phonics, but
surely no one who has looked
through a “Look and Say”
Reader would claim it is inno-
cent of repetition. Children
love repetition, to the dismay
of bored fathers who are in-
veigled to tell the same story
time and time again.
“Swagi’s” concluding poem
reminds us what a difficult
language English is, but the
examples it uses are just as
great a problem for “Look and
Say” as for “phonics.”—K.A.L.
(N.S.W.).
two off Oxley’s bushmanship
and gave an excellent account
of a cave he’d been in. He was
then 31.
Writing to Bonwick in
1867:
I regret to state that it is not
in my power to state positively who
was the first gentleman to settle, at
Hobson's Bay, but circumstances,
as far as I know, point to Honest
John Batman as the real founder
of Victoria.
The handwriting is strong and
firm, and the letter faultless.
There is a postscript which will
bring a surge of sympathy for
a great man.
I, shall complete my 70th year
on the 18th inst. and I am sorry
to tell you that my memory is
very bad, and I may add that I am
all but totally deaf.
STUART HUME (N.S.W.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ABOUT BLOAT
By W. G. WHITTLESTONE
meditating after a
* ’ rather indigestible meal the
other day, I found my thoughts
turning towards the problem
of bloat; in particular, bloat
in cows.
This is a problem I know
very little about. My approach
to control of bloat in a small
experimental herd at Ruakura
(N.Z.) was entirely practical,
because it was not expedient
to undertake any research in
this field.
For this reason I was in the
position of a typical dairy-
farmer desperately looking for
a solution to an expensive
problem. At Ruakuru I had
a small herd used for milking-
studies. Any bloat would have
ruined the experiment for the
whole season; so I had to
control it at any price.
Several years ago I was read-
ing a paper on the control of
foam in a sewage-treatment
plant. Apparently sewage will
sometimes produce an almost
solid foam which cannot be
The Government of
Columbia, a South
American Republic,
intends to increase the
output of its sheep and
wool industry by im-
porting from the U.S.A.
3,000 head of sheep.
They expect to import
them in lots of 100 ewes
and 10 rams, and each
lot is to be of a differ-
ent blood-Jine.
Australian graziers are
also striving to increase
their output, and one
way that is helping
them considerably is
■the Elastrator method
of Castration and Tail-
ing. Elastrator is the
scientific proven method
because it’s safe, sure,
and humane.
Use the antiseptically-
treated Elastrator Green
Rubber Rings for all
Castrating and Tailing.
pumped or handled in any way
by normal equipment and
which won’t break-down. With
due apologies to my bovine
friends, I couldn’t help think-
ing how like sewage are the
contents of the cow’s rumen.
It seemed likely that methods
which could solve the sewage
problem would also help with
bloat.
Certain peculiar synthetic
compounds seemed to offer
hope. This was confirmed later
when I found a paper on foam-
breaking in the process (known
as flotation) used for separating
minerals from one another. In
this process the mixed minerals
are ground-up and mixed with
a foam-producing substance,
then air is bubbled through the
mixture. Some of the minerals
stick to the bubbles and rise
to the surface, where they can
be skimmed-off. To break the
foam or froth so that the
mineral-powder can be cleaned
and separated from the solu-
tion these synthetic compounds
were again brought into play.
This made me keen to try how
they worked on cows.
The compounds concerned
are an invention of the Wyan-
dotte Co. in America. There
is a class of compounds called
non-ionic detergents. Usually
these have a long, fatty
molecule with an end on it
which dissolves easily in water.
Because one end is fatty and
the other water-loving, such a
molecule makes an efficient
detergent. Instead of the long,
fatty chain which helps to make
the detergent foam in water,
the Wyandotte people had the
bright idea of using a polyether
chain which does not dissolve
easily in water but has certain
other interesting properties.
The final product was a
strange molecule with a poly-
ether part which' loves water
and another kind of polyether
which dissolves in fatty sub-
stances. By controlling the
sizes of the two different parts
it is possible to make detergents
which foam and are good
cleaners, and also to make
strange, sticky liquids which do
not foam and will break-up a
foam already formed. These
liquids have a fairly small
molecule compared with the
ones which foam, and they
dissolve in water very well.
There are other substances
which will break-up foams.
Peanut-oil and tallow are well-
known examples. Then there
are the silicones, which are
extraordinarily good.
The first substances I played
with were silicones, and I tried
putting them in the water-
trough, so that every day the
cows would get small doses
mixed with the pasture. The
problem with silicones —and,
for that matter, with oil or
tallow —is that they do not
dissolve properly in water. To
control bloat, I thought, we
“You stick by me, son, and when I'm gone I'll leave you
the whole five-hundred-thousand acres."
need a substance which will
dissolve quickly in the rumen,
The “pluronics,” as the new
compounds are called, seemed
to fill the bill, so we tried them
at our experimental dairy.
We hoped to manage bloat
by putting the pluronic in the
water-troughs. Our cows came
to drink the water despite its
bitter taste. Actually, it was
the only water available, and
the cows were started-off at a
very low concentration in the
water. I believe that some
cows won't look at it, but it’s
probably a matter of training,
starting them with small
amounts and getting them
really thirsty.
Of course, if there is a spell
of wet weather which brings on
a flush of growth of the kind
that causes bloat, drenching
is necessary, because cows don’t
drink from a trough when the
grass is wet. We used to
drench, using a beer-bottleful
of 10 per cent, solution after
milking, and this seemed to
settle any cow which showed
signs of bloating. The water-
trough treatment probably
helped a bit (there should be
more research on this; it is
the best way to get a foam-
controller into the rumen with-
out work on the part of the
farmer).
Why does the bloat-situation
arise, and why should a foam-
breaker relieve the trouble?
The rumen of a cow gives off
quite a lot of gas, and the cow
normally belches this away,
Cows also chew the cud; it is
therefore likely that they have
some automatic mechanism
which stops them belching
when they have a cud in the
mouth, just as humans have a
neat mechanism which stops
them from pouring beer into
their lungs. In other words,
there is some nervous arrange-
ment which signals when there
is food in the mouth, and this
stops the gas from coming up
until the cud is swallowed,
Talking of beer, have you
ever had your mouth full of a
really stable foam? I have!
I once had a neighbor who was
proud of his home-brew. About
all it had was a good head, but
those of us who were polite
manfully took our noggins
and tried to cope with the
tenacious foam. Believe me, this
is extraordinarily difficult. You
can’t chew it or swallow it; it
doesn’t behave like a liquid or
a solid.
Let’s think about a cow


WILCOX MOFFLIN, LIMITED
15 Phillip Street, Sydney.
Foundation Floor Members of
Sydney Greasy Wool Futures Exchange
Overseas Associate Members
London Wool Terminal Market
Association
Phone:
BU 2441
(11 lines)
Telegrams:
“Wilmoff, Sydney.”
with a rumen full of something
like mv friend's home-brew.
After a while the foam builds-
up, so that when the cow
belches it fills its mouth with
a tenacious foam. This could
be strong enough to trigger-off
the mechanism which stops the
belching. Now the cow really
is in a mess. All the gas
being produced is tangled-up
with the foam, but the foam is
so solid that it stops the normal
belching-system from working.
Na tu r e's automatic safety-
device has been fooled, and the
poor old cow has a good
chance of passing-out.
If we can get into the cow
a foam-breaker that will dis-
solve quickly there is a hope.
Oils and fats work sometimes.;
so do silicones, sometimes.
But when the rumen is full of
gas it isn’t moving much, so
there is little mixing. That's
why I feel these pluronics are
the most promising compounds
so far tried. The work of Dr.
Johns at Palmerston North
(N.Z.) and of Dr. Wallace at
Ruakura seems to confirm this.
However, it would be better
not to have foam at all, and
that’s why it is important to
develop the use of anti-
foamers in the drinking-water
pr sprinkled on the grass. With
dairy-cows, it may be practi-
cal to use an oily emulsion of
the pluroiiic on the grass. It
could be put on as a spray,
and, being oily, would not
'wash-off in the rain. With beef-
cattle we need a sort of packet
of pluronic which would dis-
solve slowly in the rumen and
would be heavy enough to stay
there and not be regurgitated
and chewed. It might also be
possible to dose the cattle at
the beginning of the bloat-
season, and so have them pro-
tected for some months. I’m
sure this problem can be
solved.
Caftan Warning
The January, 1960, number
bf “Mother Earth,” journaFof
'the Soil Association, ran a
[desperate wail from a cotton-
power in Argentine’s Chaco,
where cotton has been grown
successfully for many years.
The trouble there is exactly
the same as that in the U.S.
Deep South, where the mono-
culture of cotton year in and
year out caused infertility of
the soil, erosion, and decreasing
fields, until eventually it was
tio longer an economic crop.
Now that Queensland is
growing cotton the authorities
should surely insist on correct
treatment of the land, so that
the State will not suffer as other
cottongrowing countries have
in the past.
The remedy is simple enough.
Rip up the land with a chisel-
plough immediately after the
cotton has been picked, in-
corporate the trash into the
topsoil, and sow legumes (pre-
ferably lentils), ploughing them
Part of Wagga Agricultural College Poll Shorthorn team
for the Royal Easter Show.
in before the next crop "is
sown.
Of. course, if all monocul-
tures were prohibited it would
be a great step forward. Being
Australian myself, I know how
obnoxious all sorts of control
are to the average Aussie, but
1 also recognise that the nation
owns all the land —even the
part of it that you or I may
buy—and has the right to in-
sist on its correct usage and
the maintenance of fertility.
F. H. Finch (Argentina,)
A Tough Summer
“Pat O’Day”: Many land-
men of the N.S.W. South-west
Slopes and surrounding
Riverina are mustering their
flocks, taking them off to better
grazing. Some have gone as
far as Kiandra in the Snowy
belt, where, to prevent pollu-
tion of the streams, sheep are
not now allowed in the nigher-
altitude country. Grass is said
to be quite good in these
mountain-areas.
In the present crisis, brought
about by many months of dry
weather and sporadic showers
that are never adequate,
graziers have not been able to
“lift” as many sheep as they
normally do (by selling sur-
plus aged and other sheep)
because of the market-price
fall. Therefore they are still
trying to run two sheep to the
acre on land which, though
well-watered, bears only dry
feed or an occasional green
shoot from recent light showers,
Merinos have been dying —
particularly weaners, which are
always a tricky proposition
during a dry summer. Baled
lucerne-hay has been used for
hand-feeding, but has proved
inadequate.
The Pastures Protection
Board at Gundagai employs
two officers —secretary Sinclair
and stock-inspector Cantello —-
both of them doing a first-rate
job helping those on the land
hereabouts. The stock-
inspector’s advice is well worth
taking: “Introduce either oats
or wheat gradually into the
diet by mixing—in the case of
oats —2oz. a sheep a day with
baled lucerne-hay. Sheep are
comparatively healthy, with a
noticeable absence of fluke or
worm in drought-time; but
undernourishment, particularly
in Merino weaners, will take
its toll without supplementary
feeding.”
Beef-research Scheme
“R.M.”: The Common-
wealth Government's . beef-re-
search scheme is expected to
come into operation on July 1.
Under the scheme, outlined
to Parliament by Minister for
Primary Industry Charles Ader-
matui, beef-producers will be
liable to a levy of up to 2s. a
head’of all cattle 2001 b. and
over, dressed weight. In a nor-
mal year, at this rate, the indus-
try will contribute £320,000,
which will be matched £ for £
by the Commonwealth, provid-
ing almost £650,000 a year for
research.
On a Cattle and Beef Re-
search Committee that is being
set up there will be four repre-
sentatives from the Graziers’
Federal Council, two from the
Wool and Meat Producers’
Federation and one from the
Dairy Farmers’ Federation.
Other members are to be drawn
from the Australian Meat
Board, the Australian Agricul-
tural Coun c i 1, C.5.1.R.0.,
Department of Primary Indus-
try and universities concerned
with research projects. This
committee will examine re-
quests for research projects and
make recommendations on


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SCUJVAN
PTYLTD 0
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
them to Mr. Adermann. The
research will cover the whole
industry from production prob-
lems right through to retail-
marketing difficulties.
Concurrent with the legisla-
tion the Minister also intro-
duced a measure empowering
the Australian Meat Board to
spend money on a meaf-sales
promotion campaign within
Australia.
Reconnaissance
in Force
Twenty representatives of
Australian meat and grazing
interests plan to leave Sydney
on April 15 for a seven-
weeks’ study-tour of the live-
stock and meat industries of
the United States and Canada.
Representatives come from
N.S.W., Victoria and Queens-
land, and besides graziers,
wholesalers and exporters they
include a breed-society repre-
sentative, abattoir proprietors
and managers, a smallgoods
manufacturer and a retailer.
Also going along, C. J. King
is head of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s division
of marketing and agricultural
economics.
The tour is under the direc-
tion of Frank H. Johnston,
editor and publisher of live-
stock journals, who’s already
well informed on the U.S. and
Sydney Show crowd in 1910,
its meat industry from previous
visits. The Country Meat-
works’ Association of N.S.W.
is sponsor, and its secretary,
T. A. Herbert —he’s secretary
of the Meat and Allied Trades’
Federation, too —will also
accompany the party.
They will fly to San Fran-
cisco, then travel by Grey-
hound coach through the main
livestock and meat centres in
North America, including
Denver, Omaha, Chicago and
Toronto, to New York. On
the return run they’ll go by
air to Los Angeles, where they
will have a look at the bone-
less-meat imported from Aus-
tralia and stored in cartons.
Beef and Roads
I know that J. H. Kelly,
author of “Beef Resources of
the North” (B. 24/3/’6O), has
spent years studying the econo-
mics of production,' and I have
most of his published works;
so I hesitate to disagree with
any of his conclusions; but I
must in his assessment of road
needs in south-western Queens-
land.
At the conclusion of the sec-
tion dealing with these he men-
tions “Thargomindah to Bar-
ringun.” Now, the best-sealed
road in s.-w. Q. links Thar-
gomindah with Cunnamulla, a
distance of 126 miles. This is
known locally as the “Meat
Road,'” and was built, so I was
told, by Owen Tancred, at the
instigation of his firm, which
operates the large meatworks at
Bourke and draws most of its
beef-cattle from Queensland.
The Paroo Shire Council
made a really good job of the
road. From Cunnamulla to
Barringun, 60-odd miles, the
road is of gravel, but can be
used in all weathers, though it
is not sealed. The really urgent
need is a sealed road from
Barringun to Bourke. This
forms part of the N.S.W. main-
roads system, and is gradually
being sealed in short sections.
Round Enngonia portion of it
is liable to regular flooding, any
decent rise in the Warrego
putting water over it in several
places.
While shire-clerk at Bourke
I made frequent trips over this
road, and know what a head-
ache that flooding is to all
concerned, and how it held-up
stock coming from Queensland.
But at the present rate of pro-
gress it will be many years
before it is made trafficable in
all weathers.
In view of the existence of
the Thargomindah-Cunnamulla
highway, I can’t see any need
for another direct from Thar-
gomindah to Barringun. It
would parallel the present high-
way, and be most costly to
build, owing to the flood-
country along the Paroo. But
another which J. H. Kelly does
not mention, and which I think
is needed and would be of great
value in facilitating the rapid
transport of stock to the Bourke
works, is from Quilpie to Thar-
gomindah.
Quilpie is one of the major
stock-centres in Queensland,
and a lot of cattle come from
there to the works at Bourke.
At present they are either
driven or go by train from
Quilpie to Cunnamulla. If the
latter, a certain amount cf
bruising results. A sealed road
from Quilpie to Thargomindah
would cut by two-thirds the
time taken in transporting
them.
You must remember that
there are no meatworks at all
in the s.-w. of Queensland, and
the only ones in the far west of
N.S.W. are at Bourke. I under-
stand that at present about
35-40,000 head are treated an-
nually—or were when I was in
Bourke. The Tancred works
are well sited, most efficiently
managed, provide employment
all the year round, and could
handle a much greater number
of cattle if communications
were improved.
I commend the above two
suggestions to J. H. Kelly's
consideration; I believe they
would have a most beneficial
effect on the economics of
beef-production in the War-
rego-Paroo-Bulloo country, no
inconsiderable section of
Queensland. —D. C. TilghmaN
(N.S.W.).
Harrow v. Erosion
“Wimra”: A Dooen (Vic.)
farmer, Cecil Creek, concerned
about the threat of wind-
erosion after this summer's


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
Sydney's Most
Distinguished Hotel
Newly modernised and decorated
throughout, The Hotel Metropole is
fast becoming Sydney’s smartest and
most fashionable hotel. Right in the
heart of the city, the Hotel
Metropole offers you the comfort
and convenience of Australia’s
largest and friendliest hotel. Over
400 rooms all with telephones and
hot and cold water (95 with private
bathroom), luxurious ultra-modern
suites, 5 magnificent entertaining
rooms, swift, efficient room service
and a really fine dining room and
cellar.
Yes, at the Hotel Metropole you’ll
receive truly wonderful hospitality
and service in the traditional
relaxed and friendly atmosphere
that makes the Hotel Metropole
THE place to stay in Sydney.
Write today for colour folder.
THE HOTEL METROPOLE
Australia’s Most
Friendly Hotel
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
long dry spells, has invented
a bar-harrow 33ft. wide which
checks drift on fallow by
making ridges wider and higher
than those made by harrows
hitherto used.
Mounted on rubber tyres,
this harrow folds-up to only
12ft. Bin. wide for transport,
and can be towed by any
motor vehicle at speeds up to
40 m.p.h. Because of its
greater width when extended,
it can work 25 acres in the
time a combine would take to
cover 10 acres.
The harrow, manufactured
locally, has been successfully
tried behind a Fordson tractor
averaging 7} m.p.h. on a
Rupanyup farm.
Land Health
[From I*. A. Yeomans]
THE recent article here on
“Land Health” recalled a
visit I paid to the Haughley ex-
periment-farm several times in
1958, on the last occasion with
John Douglass, director of
Rural Broadcasts for the A.B.C.
In my opinion what is being
done at Haughley is as im-
portant as on any experiment-
I station in the world, but
Haughley, unfortunately, has
an income less than adequate
for the great work it is doing.
It might be interesting to
compare the finances of the
famous Rothamsted experi-
ment-station in England, which
I also visited the same year.
Rothamsted was originally
founded by Sir John Laws, in-
ventor of superphosphates, for
private experimenting. Since
retired, the director at the time
of my visit was Sir William
Ogg. The Laws Trust founded
to run Rothamsted produces
annual income which probably
does not exceed £5OOO a year,
but the British Government
makes grants of half-a-million
' a year, even though Rotham-
sted remains a private experi-
ment-farm — a beautiful in-
stance of a five-thousand-
pounds tail wagging a half-a-
million-pounds dog.
■ Farmers interested in the
. health of the soil from an
organic and natural angle are
generally under the impression
that this great experiment-farm
, is so tied-up with the chemical
approach that little, if any,
other agricultural work goes
°n. However, an enormous
amount is done at Rothamsted
quite apart from chemical re-
search in soil-fertility, and those
tvho do not believe in the
yearly application of super-
phosphates as the be-all-and-
end-all of agriculture will find
these experiments of great in-
terest. They can see plots of
land that have been grown
in continuous wheat for
over 100 years and during
the whole of that time have
received regular applications of
various fertilisers, not ail
chemical fertilisers. For in-
stance, one plot has received
14 tons of farmyard-manure
an acre and grown continuous
wheat for well over a century.
It is well to remember that
there is a great deal of informa-
tion to be gained from what
may be considered wrong
methods when they have ex-
tended over a period of time.
In contrast to Rothamsted's
£500,000 a year, the Soil As-
sociation experiment-farm is
struggling along in its great
work with a yearly income of
about £lO,OOO, which any
farmer. would class as in-
adequate to conduct experi-
ments on all those known and
unknown factors of the soil
which together make for the
health or disease in plants,
animals and humans. It is
suggested that joining this asso-
ciation —it costs only £5 a year
—is one way this great work
can be assisted by Australian
farmers.
I had several meetings with
Lady Eve Balfour, who has
dedicated her life to the Haugh-
ley experiment - farm. Apart
from our visits to Haughley,
she was able to use our home
as general headquarters for her
Australian tour. Another out-
standing personality connected
with Haughley—and mentioned
in The Bulletin article —is Dr.
R. F. Milton, whom I met and
talked to on several occasions.
A successful consulting bio-
chemist, with a fine laboratory
and other offices in Harley
Street, he was brought-in on
the scientific side of the Haugh-
ley experiments because of his
qualifications and because he
had no previous affiliations
with the Soil Association —a
course no doubt taken so that
his findings would not be
suspect with orthodox scien-
tists.
D.D.T. for Cottle
“North”: D.D.T. is safe for
use in cattle-dips and ticks
don't readily develop resist-
ance to it.
For successful dipping
though, it’s uneconomic to
make a rough guess at the
amount of D.D.T. required
Follow the manufacturer’s
directions to the letter, and stir
the vat thoroughly before send-
ing the animals through.
D.D.T. is only partially
soluble in water, and its effec-
tiveness against ticks depends
on thorough mixing. Left
awhile it falls to the bottom
amongst the sludge, needing to
be thoroughly mixed again
before restarting. A long-
handled, square-nosed shovel
is best for this, and the vat
should be hand-stirred for at
least 15min. before the “stirrer”
cattle are run through—as an
addition to hand-stirring, not
instead of it.
If the dipping-run is delayed
more than lOmin. “stirrer”
cattle should be put through
before andther run is started.
All “stirrer” cattle should be
redipped to give then? full
benefit Also, some of the
D.D.T. clings to the cattle,
gradually lessening the con-
centration in the vat, and un-
less a close watch is kept on
concentration the dip may be-
come ineffective.
Samples of the dipping-fluid
should be taken immediately
after each dipping and for-
warded to the Animal Research
Institute. From the analysis-
report correct amounts of
D.D.T. needed to bring the
dip up to strength again may
be worked'out.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST.
(31 / 3/'60)
There shoud be reasonably good rains in south-eastern
Queensland during May, with heavy falls in the lower south-
coastal districts and moderate rain in part of the Central
Highlands and in the Maranoa basin; but rainfall looks like
being poor elsewhere. Heavier rains are likely in the eastern
half of the State during June, with possible flooding on the
coast south of Mackay.
N.S.W. should have general rains in May, with heavy
falls on the Central and South Coasts, the Southern Table-
lands, the South-west Slopes and in the central-western
districts. Serious flooding is likely in the eastern half of
the State. Follow-on rains are probable in June, with further
flooding in the southern divisions.
Victoria should have good seasonal rains during May,
with heaviest falls on the west-coast districts and in East
Gippsland. Rainfall looks like being only moderate during
June, July and August, with general rains again in Sep-
tember.
The agricultural areas and districts of South
Australia should have good rains in May, although elsewhere
falls may be poor. Patchy rains are likely during June, but
there should be reasonably good rains again in July, and
these may extend to the north interior.
During May there should be moderate rains in the
south-west agricultural areas of Western Australia, around
Eucla and in the n.-e. districts. Good rains above average
are likely about the Fortescue and West Gascoyne, but falls
elsewhere will probably be poor.
LENNOX WALKER.


The
NORTHERN LIFE
Assurance Company of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in Canberra, Australia )
All Classes of Ordinary Life Assurance,
Superannuation and Annuity Policies Issued
HEAD OFFICE: 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone 8L5601 K. J. Hedley, General Manager
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF MEW
South wales— in divorce.
TO URSULA MICHALCZUK (formerly
Widderich) late of 10 Clarke Street
Wayville South Aust.—TAKE NOTICE
that JOSEF MICHALCZUK has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1460 of 1058
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street"
Sydney by 14th June 1960 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from McDONELL & MOFFITT, Soli-
citors, 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney,
agents for WALSH & BLAIR, Solicitors,
Wagga W'agga.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Copy of Australian Insects, by
K. C. McKeown. —6975.
Copy of The New Tourists’
Guide Victorian View Album,
1888-89, published by Cook, Durre
and Co., Melbourne. —6972.'
Whereabouts of Norman Cook,
aged 32, 6ft., 14 stone, eyes blue,
red curly hair, who left Durham
(Eng.) in 1954 on British tanker
Narica—6973.
Copy of A Gentil Parfit Knight,
author not known. —6974.
Information Supplied
(From E. M. England): In
Brief Answers (B. 23 /3 / ’6O) men-
tion was made in reply to “A.A.R.
of Mary Bishop’s book, Let Sleep-
ing Cats Lie. That was the title of
one of the chapters. Her .book is
It’s A Dog’s Life.
Information Sought
Are there any rules governing
the 1 use of such formal letter-
endings such as “Yours faith-
fully,” “Yours sincerely,” “Yours
truly,” etc.?
Fowler’s Modern English Usage
suggests that “Yours faithfully” be
used to unknown persons in busi-
ness; “Yours truly” to slight
acquaintances; “Yours very truly,”
ceremonious but cordial; “Yours
sincerely” in invitations and friendly
but not intimate letters; “Yours”
or “Yours ever” between inti-
mates; “Yours affectionately”
between relations.
* * * *
Details of the Monroe Doctrine ?
Named after the U.S. President
who propounded it, the Doctrine
is not a legislative pronouncement.
It has been approved by action of
Congress, but it does not rest
upon Congressional sanction. Nor
does it draw its force from any
international treaty; but it had the
implied endorsement of the treaty-
making power of the U.S. in the
reservations to the two Hague
Conventions of 1899 and 1907. It
is not part of international law,
but it rests, as Elihu Root said,
“upon the right of self-protection,
and that right is recognised by
international law.”
It stemmed from the collapse of
Spanish authority in Latin America
in 1823, and after Britain’s Foreign
Secretary Canning suggested to the
U.S. Minister in London, Richard
Rush, that neither Britain nor the
U.S. “could see with indifference
any portion of them [former
Spanish colonies] transferred to
another Power.” President Monroe
conferred with his predecessors in
office, Jefferson and Madison, who
agreed that some action was neces-
sary. John Quincy Adams, his
Secretary of State, advised a
separate declaration on the sole
responsibility of the U.S.
Briefly, the two-paragraph Doc-
trine “asserts the principle in which
the rights and interests of the
United States are involved, that the
American continents, by the free
and independent condition which
they have assumed and maintained,
are henceforth not to be considered
as subjects for future colonisation
by any European Powers.” It
also asserts that “It is impossible
that the allied Powers [EuropeanJ
should extend their political system
to any portion of either continent
without endangering our peace and
happiness . . . and that it would
“You shouldn’t have mentioned the rainmaker !”
be impossible for us to behold such
interposition, in any form, with
indifference.”
* * * *
What is the derivation of the
names of our months ?
They came from the Romans.
January, February and March were
named atfer the god Janus, the
goddess Februa and the god Mars.
April got its name from the verb
aperire, “to open,” being the
month in which most trees and
flowers bloomed. May and June
are called after Maia and Juno, and
July and August after Julius
Caesar and Emperor Augustus. The
remaining four come from Roman
numerals and refer to the seventh,
eighth, ninth and tenth months in
the old Roman calendar.
When was Sydney’s Palace
Theatre opened, and ■with what
play ?
The Palace opened its doors on
Saturday, December 19, 1896, with
a vaudeville programme entitled
“Stars Of All Nations,” presented
by Groacher’s Variety Co. and
featuring R. G. Knowles (comedian),
Henry Lee (impersonator), Clotilde
Antonio (acrobat), Syd Deane and
Henry Weir (vocalists), the Three
Delevines (comedians), and the
Winterton Sisters (dancers).
Brief Answers
S.E.: Pacem amo (Lat.) means “I
love peace”... .L.H.H.: Rev.
William Lee, inventor of the
stocking-frame, first- broiight the
machine to light at Calverton, in
Nottinghamshire (England), about
1589. Later he moved it to
Bunhill Fields, St. Luke’s (London),
where it was seen by Queen Eliza-
beth I. Lee died in France about
1610.. ..A.A.M.: It would be hard
to say what has caused the strange
double spelling of Bellingen for
the N.S.W. town and Bellinger for
the river on which it is situated.
It is certain, however, that in
the early days of the district
“Bellinger” was the usual spelling
for the township, the river and the
heads nearby. Since then the names
of the town and river have varied
from time to time until now most
maps spell the name of the town
as “Bellingen” and the river as
“Bellinger.” Common practice
agrees with them.... J.H.: It was
Julius Rosenberg and his wife
Ethel who were executed in the
U.S. for passing-on nuclear secrets
to the Russians. Their accom-
plices were Harry Gold (30 years
jail), Morton Sobell (30 years) and
David Greenglass (15)... .J.G.K.:
Todman was matched twice against
Tulloch. They first met in the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
(20/4/ > 57), Tulloch winning. Five
days later, in the A.J.C. Cham-
pagne Stakes, Todman w0n....
E.W.: Write for particulars of
qualifications to Secretary, Pioneer
Society of Australia (women’s), 61
Market Street, Sydney G.T.R.:
“Carramar” is a N.S.W. abo. place-
name meaning “shade of trees.”
P.M-N.: “Rounds” is the
term used by bellringers to signify
the ringing of bells beginning with
the highest treble note and descend-
ing on the successive notes of the
major scale to the lowest tenor note.
. ...E.P.S.: C. J. Dennis was born
Sept. 7, 1876, and died June 22,
1938.... S-.C.Y.: Stanley Ketchel
was never heavyweight champion
of the world; but he did win, lose
and win the middleweight crown.
. ...H.J.F.: The stethoscope was
invented by R. T. H. Laennec, his
instrument consisting of a hollow
wooden tube expanded at both
ends... .M.V.: Jim Corbett and
Peter Jackson fought 61 rounds to
a draw at San Frahcisco on May
•21, 1891... .K.C.M.: It was Samuel
Jphnson who said: “Nature has
given women so much power that
the law has very wisely given them
little”.. . .T.T.P.: The lines are
from Kipling’s “The Mary Gloster,”
written in 1894 S.W.C.: (1) The
will must be properly witnessed and
signed by two witnesses at least.
(2) If he signs as a witness he will
be debarred from obtaining a
bequest the will.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
L.K.: There is an over-supply
of cynical stories. Go deeper....
“The Explorer” is now
bushed somewhere in our outsize
w.p.b W.S.D.: Topical verse,
skits and jingles, if good, are wel-
come C.L.P.: Same old card-
crooks, same old simple-seeming
bushie who takes ’em down a
peg... .H.F.A.: A good first try.
But try again.... Dud M. The
abbreviation of your Christian-name
is ominously apt... .D.K.8.:
Found one stanza irresistible:
I like her, with her lips
As moist and hot as chips,
Her eyes are bright and tair,
Reflecting e\ery glare.
....P.L.: A choirmaster saves the
curate’s sister from a fate worse
than death—O, death, where, for
the sub. who had to stagger through
it, is'thy sting? ... .W.M.N.: They
used to tell that yarn in the pubs
when beer was a trey a pint- and
spittoons induced the competitive
spirit. .. .G.M.: Try to write of
present-day affairs and people. A
critical analysis of your own time
is more difficult than a perspective
view of the past, but it could
be more interesting... .A.C.K.:
Pretty-pretty story about rosy-
cheeked maids disporting in the
meadows of Devon —out. Have you
forgotten that you live in the
Southern Hemisphere?


THE HOLLIDAYS
"Now, Mr. Brooker, before We continue our fascinating journey through the Rhine Valley ... Mr. Brooker !”
New Recordings
Banquet of Ballet
An attractive jacket-picture
doesn't necessarily reflect a
record's merits any more than
it does a book’s; but in the
case of the series of excerpts
from famous ballets put out
by Philips on l.p. 45s —there
are nine in all in the latest
release—the handsome repro-
ductions of Degas originals,
most of them capturing some
scene of the ballet played, be-
come the external signs of the
enchantment to be found
within.
Each of the four sampled
has obviously been the subject
of sound editing, so that not
only the popular airs but the
chief episodes have been in-
cluded to give as wide a cover-
age as possible—an important
point. Silk-smooth engineering
adds to the enjoyment.
It amounts to an embarrass-
ment of riches which makes it
tough to single out one that is
pre-eminent; but this listener
found his ears beguiled a shade
the more by the excerpts from
Adam’s Giselle (495 027 AE),
played by the Vienna Sym-
phony Orchestra under Paul
Walter. The conductor gives
it plenty of virility and “lift,”
and he gets disciplined playing
in lovely full tone from the
massed strings in the dramatic
sections, nowhere more appeal-
ing than in the surging upsweep
towards the Finale. This is
playing of ballet-music as
g00<! as anything that has been
committcd to disk
Another exampfc of Walter's
hj craftsm hi js hjs read _
with the same top-flight
0 » hestra of Weber - S , Hvka , ion
Jo Jhe Wa) (495 028 AE)
which has on flle reverse side
Dance Qf rfe Hours from
p onchiellj . s 0 a La cioconda.
The , ush Be||ioz orchestra .
tjon of Weber - S famous waltz
js , ailor . made for Walter wltb
his penchant for extrac ,ing the
j as£ dro p o£ romance from
music, whilst his rhythmic pulse
always beats strongly through
t h e stream of lyricism, so that
at t h e start it is easy while
listening to it to conjure the
vision of the legendary leap of
Nijinsky. In the Ponchielli
t h e conductor holds a fine
balance between the dramatic-
content—the harp’s heralding
the imminence of dawn and the
dispersement of the powers of
evil is a notable contribution
here—and the sprightliness of
the lighter moments, as in the
galop.
Karel Ancerl takes over this
same orchestra for selections
from Swan Lake (495 029 AE),
which concentrate on the best-
known parts of Act H. His
handling of the woodwinds is
particularly outstanding, and
in those sections where its
various members supply the
chordal background the effect
is magical. The highlight of
the concerted playing is the
captivating air to which the
four cygnets dance. Also note-
worthy are the fine-drawn
violin solo by the orchestra's
unnamed leader in the slow,
sad air of Odette’s Scene, and
the richness of tone of the
principal ’cello in his solo work.
The Suite from Delibes’ Cop-
pelia (495 505 AE) is the work
of the Lamoureux Concert
Orchestra conducted by Jesus
Etcheverry, who notches an
achievement none too common
in the playing of this suite: a
smooth meshing of an effect of
carefree gaiety that is almost
Offenbachian with one of grace-
fulness which has a distinct
edging of dignity. He imparts
high tone-color to the Hun-
garian Dance section, and he
also builds a climax which
commands respect. The brass-
ware is used with commendable
moderation.
♦+♦ »$■ +>
Goldrush Songs
Wattle Recordings’ 12in.
l.p. “Australian Goldrush
Songs,” by The Fossickers, is
a pretty full selection —21 songs
in all, a lot of them, it seems,
as sung and composed by the
entertainer Charles Thatcher,
for whom the notes refer the
reader to Hugh Anderson’s
book Goldrush Songster.
The songs are certainly more
lively than the average folk-
song. “Cooey,” for instance,
which ends the first side, is a
picture of a convict who went
back to London with his girl
and strutted in the shops,
finally amazing the English
with the Australian bush-call:
it makes an extraordinarily
vivid picture of the Australian
bushman celebrating in the
town, and its comic chorus 'T
do, I do, I do,” repeated with
varying inflections, must have
been a smash-hit in its day.
But what makes this record-
ing so much better than most
recordings of folk-songs is the
verve and gusto of the presen-
tation. The Fossickers trio—
Ron Edwards, Bill Dempsey
and Jim Mills, from the Vic-
torian Dandenongs—when they
“didn’t meet to make music,
met to fossick for gold on some
of the old deserted fields”; but
perhaps the best gold they
found was Hugh Anderson's
book of songs.
With their feeling for the
fields and the old times, and
their own banjo and guitar ac-
companiments, The Fossickeis
have brought these songs to
vigorous life. Burl Ives, with
his light voice and American
background, could never attain
the hard brilliance, the sun-
burnt gaiety, of this singing, or
the sarcasm of the spoken in-
terpolations, to “Weston and
his Clerk,” one of two “Vilikins
and his Dinah” songs.
Seven of the songs deal with
the traps (police) or the Joes
(Government officials or
police); there is one about “The
German Girls,” or the girls
awaiting lucky miners in pubs;
others are about new chums,
cabbage-tree hats, squatters left
without employees by the gold-
rush (another “Vilikins” ver-
sion), and narks who laid in-
formation against sly-grog
sellers. The recording is avail-
able at music-shops.


Women's Letters
SYDNEy
The new season’s evening-dresses were
seen in full splendor for the first time
on Friday night when the Peter Pan
Easter Ball drew over 400 dancers to
Prince’s. It was amazing to see how
many white dresses there were (there
must have been about 40 per cent.), with
red and pink tones a definite second.
There was also a high percentage of
full-length dresses, quite a heartening
sign for those who love dignity in
evening-dress and deplore the popu-
larity of the short dress.
The president of the ball-committee,
Mrs. Norman Hill, wore a classic gown
of pink Italian-silk with matching stole.
Her daughter Jane, who with Prue
Osborne and Carolyn Copeland dis-
pensed smiles and gifts of French scent
to the incoming guests, wore a dress
composed of what seemed like millions
of rows of y Valenciennes-lace banded at
intervals with apple-green satin. Match-
ing stoles were everywhere. Mrs. Bill
Kendall had her white one lined with
black over a white dress. Mrs. Alan
Copeland teamed an aqua stole to a
full-length white dress. Most of the
stoles were edged with silk-fringe, many
of them lined with velvet. The most
individual dress was worn by Mrs. Jock
Pagan, a full-length American model of
mulberry Ottoman - silk from Hattie
Carnegie.
As for the men, dress was mostly
mildly conventional, though there was
a high incidence of the tucked, drawn-
thread or fine-linen shirt-front, and Dick
Keep (who escorted Sally Spurgeon)
ventured a red cummerbund. Maurice
Chevalier, who was to have been guest-
of-honor, arrived earlier than expected,
did not find a reception-party awaiting
him (no smiles and French scent!), and
went away again. Otherwise it was a
most successful and glamorous party
which should result in a fine cheque for
the Peter Pan Kindergarten.
☆ ☆ ☆
The special atmosphere of the Ameri-
can Women’s Club, which is one of
warmth and friendliness, pervaded the
luncneon last week at which one of its
members, Jenny Bell (Mrs. Alonzo Bell),
spoke on the subject of Persian-rugs.
Among the many things one learned
from Mrs. Bell was that the idea of the
magic carpet arose from the belief that
when at his prayers on his rug the
Moslem is transported halfway to
Heaven. And there was also the curious
little bit of etiquette which demands that
when seated on a Persian-rug you should
never point your toes towards your
hostess. It is one of the rudest things
you can do!
At the luncheon Ardell McCabe (who
is Mrs. Kenneth McCabe, of Pymble)
took-over the office of president from
Mrs. Elyce Mansfield, who presented to
her a tiny gavel as symbol of office. Then
a polished salad-bowl was presented to
Mrs. Mansfield as a tribute to the work
she had'done during the year as presi-
dent. The table-decorations of fluffy
chickens in colored Easter-eggs were so
attractive that they rate a special men-
tion, and the decoration-committee a
pat-on-the-back.
Thea Astley, whose new novel, “A
Descant for Gossips," is published today
(April 13), is a Queenslander, born in
Brisbane and educated at the University
of Queensland, where she won prizes for
poetry. After teaching for the Educa-
tion Department in various parts of that
State for five years she came to Sydney
after her marriage (she is Mrs. John
Gregson ). Her first novel, “Girl with a
Monkey," was written while she was still
a teacher; now she writes at home in
free periods of caring for her house,
husband and small son.
Mr. W. G. Vandermev smashed
fallacies with a firm hand when he spoke
at the monthly meeting of the Garden
Club on the growing of hyacinths. You
must plant these flowers in an open and
sunny spot, so it seems, and not in the
shade or under a tree, as so many people
think. Also, you should store the bulbs
at a temperature of not less than 85
degrees, and if you can get a couple
of weeks of heatwave conditions all
the better. Well, one would never have
thought of stoking the furnace in order
to keep the hyacinth-bulbs warm, but
Mr. Vandermey should know best. He
has 92,000 bulbs, and his family has been
growing flowers for five generations.
The Blue Mountains are coming well
into the picture this year as far as
garden-clubs are concerned. At this
meeting Mrs. John Buchan told mem-
bers of a newly-formed club for the
Lower Blue Mountains with a territory
from Emu Plains to Woodford. It
already has 100 enthusiastic members,
with more men than women. Also a
letter was read from the new Garden
Club at Warrimoo. Perhaps the two
clubs will amalgamate shortly.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another flowery event of the week
was the Autumn Rose Show at Farmer’s
Blaxland Gallery. It was interesting to
see here the newer types of roses that
are being grown, especially those in the
orange tones. Some of these are quite
vivid, with 'descriptive names like
Orangeade, Highlight and Heatwave. A
softer one is Montezuma, which is said
to have good lasting qualities when cut,
and Dickson s Flame, a floribunda which
has been developed in the past year.
Then there are the lilac-roses, ranging
from the pale, delicate Sterling Silver to
handsome Priscilla and a rather odd
rose called Careless Love which is mauve
with white stripes.
Mr. C. R. Knight (Homebush) who is
a member of the committee which
organises the show, said that there is a
steady increase in the demand for the
orange-colored roses, but that fhe out-
standing favorite in all types is still
Queen Elizabeth, a delicate china-pink.
The champion rose in the show was
a Georgia Chobe, exhibited by Mr. E.
Rothery, of Penshurst, and champion in
another class was a group of lovely
white roses (Virgo) shown by Mr. R. C.
Ling. Among the white roses Iceberg
was notable also for its strong stems
and mildew-resistant leaves.
The National Rose Society of N.S.W.,
of which Mr. J. K. Keogh is president,
organises the Autumn Rose Show every
year as a prelude to the Royal Easter
Show. Attractive flower-arrangements
are included, and exhibited also are
flower-paintings by well-known artists—
this year by Margaret Coen, Alison
Rehfish, Dorothy Thornhill, Elsie
Dangerfield and Alan Baker.
☆ ☆ ☆
This is Easter Bonnet week in Sydney,
a time when the millinery manufacturers
demonstrate that elegance is unthinkable
without a hat. On several days of the
week you could see girls and young
women parading in Martin Place and
Hyde Park, and at the Trocadero on
Thursday prizes were presented to the
winners in various sections. For the
best hat made by an apprentice, Miss
Robyn Mansell took the prize, and
among the students Miss Dorothy Ng,
from Hong Kong, was the winner. For
wearing the smartest hat seen in Hyde
Park on a particular day Mrs. Elaine
Aiken, of Carss Park, was awarded the
£5O prize. Miss Mansell and Mrs.
Aiken took part in the parade of winter-
hats, but Miss Ng was represented by
Miss Heather Reid, who is one of her
teachers at St. George Technical Col-
lege, where she is doing a four-year
course in women’s handcrafts with a
view to becoming a teacher when she
returns to Hong Kong.


MELBOURNE
The lush green lawns of the Fitzroy
Gardens were the setting for the garden-
party for 3000 guests given by the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs.
Bernard Evans), a civic innovation which
was honored by the presence of the
Governor and Lady Brooks. Pastel-blue
lace mounted on silk fashioned the slim
jacket-suit worn by Lady Brooks with a
small cap consisting of clusters of
flowers. A deep-cream French-brocade
coat covered the matching frock with its
lace yoke worn by Mrs. Evans with a
small apple-green velvet hat edged with
cream and pink flowers. Mrs. Bolte, wife
of the Premier, wore a full-skirted coat
of cinnamon-brown satin over a white
silk-taffeta frock patterned in green and
cinnamon roses. Layers of soft gold
organza fashioned her small petal-cap.
Margot Evans had a coat of gold
honeycomb-wool to go with her white-
and-yellow floral frock and white-veiled
satin circlet. Her sister, Mrs. Louis Sall-
mann, jnr., also chose a floral ensemble,
and Mrs. Ronald Evans a full-skirted
frock of deep-green-and-blue floral
cotton, worn with a white fur bandeau.
Margaret Insker’s choice was a gaily-
patterned silk frock. Lady Thomas wore
a navy straw bowler-hat with a matching
silk frock topped with a short bolero.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dyed pampas-grass made an effective
background for the white gladioli and
pink dahlias which formed the decora-
tions of the ballroom at Stanmark for
the dinner-dance arranged by the Inter-
national House Auxiliary. Special guests
included University Chancellor Mr.
Justice Dean and Mrs. Dean, and Vice-
Chancellor Sir George Paton and Lady
Paton. Auxiliary-chairman Mrs. A. V.
Jackson, Dr. Jackson and dance-com-
mittee president Mrs. Lisle Pym and
Mr. Pym greeted the official guests. Mrs.
Dean chose a short frock of aqua-blue
Chantilly-lace, Lady Paton black French
crepe, Mrs. Jackson pale-lilac French-
lace, diamente-scattered, and Mrs. Pym
a formal gown of black crepe-romaine
carrying silver beads.
Mrs. H. I. Fader, wife of the Thai
Consul, wore a gown of ice-blue tulle
with silver leaves extending from the
strapless bodice to the hips of the full
skirt; Mrs. G. R. Molyneux’s junior-
navy chiffons were patterned in a silver
scroll-design. Mrs. M. Nomoto, wife of
the Japanese Consul, wore a white satin
national-costume. A national-costume
was also worn by Mrs. K. Y. Leung,
wife of the Chinese Consul, hers being
of dark navy satin. Mrs. Robert Wyllie’s
slim-fitting frock was of pale-beige
French-crepe.
☆ ☆ ☆
When the Director-General of the U.N.
Food and Agriculture Organisation, Dr.
B. R. Sen, was entertained at a civic-
reception by the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress red gladioli mixed with
chrysanthemums, and greenery added a
colorful note to the reception-room. On
the dais with Cr. Bernard Evans and Mrs.
Evans (the latter wearing black-silk-
taffeta with a black-net fascinator) were
the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. G. L.
Chandler, and Sir Charles and Lady
Lowe. Among the guests were State
Opposition-leader Clive Stoneham and
Mrs. Stoneham (her grey-and-pink silk-
brocade jacket-suit worn with a deeper-
toned pink summer felt-cloche), Mrs.
James McGauran (in full-length coat and
matching-frock of black satin embossed
in a small pastel-blue rose, and a picture-
hat of natural-straw with a black velvet
crown), Greek Consul Nicholas Coumbos
and his fiancee, Miss Sigrid Herbert, Sir
Horace Robertson, Mrs. Lance Reich-
stein, Mrs. Colin Russell and Mr. and
Mrs. Stewart Bruce.
Sarah Luxton, who is engaged to
Lieut. Robin Nelson, R.N., A.D.C. to
the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, is the
younger daughter of Mr. T. Luxton, of
Toorak, and Mrs. H. Fowler, of Surrey,
England, and is a former pupil of
Lauriston. Her fiance is the elder son
of Mrs. M. McLean, of Accra, Ghana,
and the late Dr. W. Nelson. The wedding
will take place late in the year at St.
Johns Church, Toorak, and the recep-
tion will be held at the home of Lady
Luxton, Sarah's grandmother.
With the lndian-summer that Mel-
bourne has been enjoying, trees are late
in turning to autumn reds and golds,
and silk- and cotton-clad women have'
found it hard to whip-up interest in the
winter-styles displayed in the windows.
/Still, despite the unseasonable warmth,
winter ft just around a couple of corners,
and the fashion - scene for the cold
months ahead is most alluring. What
daughter of Eve wouldn’t covet a white
coat of chinchilla fabric worn over a
navy wool suit, the jacket featuring the
high waistline? Or want to own a frock
of sapphire wool with a rounded neck-
line and bracelet-length sleeves? And
dismal weather would be more bearable
when wearing a bright-red wool coat
made with outsize pockets, and with red
braid-buttons. Bone-colors, incidentally,
are leading the way in shades for the
coming season.
The cardigan-jacket, made popular by
.Chanel, is seen in every fashion-parade,
and capes are making a comeback.
Evening-fashions show a trend still for
full skirts ; there appears to be a bow
at every waistline, and street-lengths are
used for evening-fashions, which lean
towards the tunic-frock and suit for
dining and for the theatre. Chanel
comes into the picture again with a
gold - embroidered satin suit which
features the cardigan - jacket. A
glamorous peacock-blue satin evening-
gown is embroidered in matching-pearls,
and the long full skirt has the inevitable
bow at the high front waistline. Seed-
pearls embroider numerous evening-
gowns, and multi-strand pearl-and-
rhinestone dog-collars match fabulous
fabrics in the evening-scene. Gold
jewellery, chains about the neck with
matching bracelets, and chunky gold
jewellery are even worn with tailored
suits. Black is always good and is easy
to alter with many accessories. Just pin
a large glittering brooch at the waist,
add a pearl necklace and ear-rings, or
wear gold jewellery, and you have a
frock that is always in fashion.
☆ ☆ ☆
Delectable Chinese national dishes
were served at the buffet-luncheon party
given by the Consul’ of the Republic of
China, Mr. K. Y. Leung, and Madame
Leung, at which the guests-of-honor
were members of the delegation from
Formosa to the Asian and Pacific
Accounting Convention. Madame Leung
chose a black satin sleeveless national-
frock ; so did Mrs. Louey, hers being
of white satin embossed in an Oriental
design. Guests included Dorothy Hsu
(here to work for Free China with Radio
Australia), Mr. and Mrs. David Wang,
Mr. and Madame S. K. Chen, Sir Charles
and Lady Lowe, Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Rosenthal, Mr. and Mrs. D. R. Dwyer,
and Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside.
V- * V
The Younger Members’ Group of the
English Speaking Union will hold an art
exhibition at E.S.U. House, Toorak
Road, South Yarra, from April 28 to
April 30 inclusive, to assist the group’s
travelling - scholarship. Paintings by
Streeton, Heysen, Will Rowell, Namat-
jira and Buckmaster, many of them not
previously shown in this city, have been
lent, and there will be other paintings
by well-known artists for sale. Sir
Charles Lowe will open the exhibition
on April 28, at 8 p.m., when a coffee-
and-liqueurs party will be held. Entree-
cards will cost £1 Is. each; for the
other two days a charge of 4s. will cover
cost of a catalogue and cup of coffee.
On the final two days the exhibition will
be open from 10 a.m. to 9.30 p.m.


its “dark secret love” finally damaged
the spirit beyond repair; but the death
in Diver’s soul is as complete as
Gatsby’s physical death in the swim-
ming-pool. It is an exciting theme, as
pertinent as any in modern literature,
and Fitzgerald imparts, if not the pro-
cess itself, at any rate the actions and
moods it throws out and the echoes of
tragic waste that hang over it.
This should have been a far greater
novel than “Gatsby.” but. exasperat-
ingly, it isn’t. Malcolm Cowley has
told how Fitzgerald labored over it for
years, often changing his attitude to it,
writing 400.000 words and throwing
away three-fourths of them, tinkering
with it interminably. He even went on
revising it after its cool reception by the
critics, and in 1948 Cowley put out a
version revised according to Fitzgerald’s
last wishes.
The Cowley edition, which simply
puts the story into chronological order,
seems to this reviewer much more effec-
tive than the original version, which
the present publishers, whether out of
conservatism or agreement with those
critics who disapproved of the
revisions, have used.
The final version, while it draws too
much attention to the distracting shifts
of narrative-focus, avoids two of the
worst faults of the original—the elabor-
ate mystification and apparent aimless-
ness of the long Riviera introduction
and the confusing crack left by the
flashback. Nothing short of a rewrite,
however, could get rid of the naive
psychology surrounding Nicole’s ill-
ness, the heavy freight of irrelevant
guide-book and spirit-of-the-age stuff
(hangovers from the “broad canvas”
novel which Fitzgerald had earlier
planned), or the frequent preciousness
caused by looking so long at the
“unique” Diver group through the
starry eyes of 19-year-old Rosemary
Hoyt. But in either version the end-
section, where Diver runs-down like an
old gramophone, leaving the needle
scratching slowly in the last groove, is
unforgettable.
Malcolm Cowley has written that this
novel, in spite of its many failings,
“stayed in people’s minds, like a regret
or an unanswered question.” That
might not be the best way of staying in
people's minds, but it is a way, and
the chances are that “Tender Is the
Night” will go on doing just that.
Mysteries of Nature
Translated from the German by
Mervyn Savill, F. J. Pootman’s Secrets
of the Animal World (Souvenir Press;
Angus and Robertson) is a fascinating
Nature-book with only one serious
fault in it: namely that Pootman,
extremely dogmatic when he states his
curious facts about birds, beasts,
insects and fish, will seldom reveal his
authorities.
When he is frankly quoting that
wonderful old naturalist Fabre (some
of whose rapturous revelations about
the dung-beetles the present reviewer
happens lately to have been re-reading)
on the 127 emperor-moths that flew
through the briars in the storm to meet
the lady-moth he had just let out of
the dolls’ house, that is all right: every-
body knows Fabre. But who is Poot-
man’s authority for his precise and
remarkable statistics about the dist-
ances which dogs and rats, at the peril
of biting you if you don’t observe the
rules, like to keep between human
beings and themselves? —
The lizard will let a man approach
to within 3ft.; the hyena retreats at
21ft.; the marabou stork at 60ft.
The lion ambles away at 80yds. unless
he is molested, the elephant at 150
and the defenceless antelope at
200yds.
It is all very useful as a reminder
never to let yourself stray, say, to
within 79yds. of a lion; but can you
rely on Pootman? Who was it —no
doubt the same devoted measurer—
who discovered that, talking about the
living-space animals require, “The lion
claims four square-miles for itself, the
howler-monkey nine, the elephant eight
and the wart-hog six”? Do wart-hogs
deny these figures?
It is nice to know, again, that the
poor persecuted hen who is lowest in
the pecking-order will quickly “rise
Four Poems From a Series
by JUDITH WRIGHT
I: The Peacock
Shame on the aldermen who locked
the Peacock in a dirty cage!
His blue and copper sheens are mocked
by habit, hopelessness ancf age.
The weary Sunday families
along their gravelled paths repeat
the pattern of monotonies
that he treads out with restless feet.
And yet the Peacock shines alone ;
and if one metal feather fall
another grows where that was grown.
Love clothes him still, in spite of all.
How pure the hidden spring must rise
that time and custom cannot stain !
It speaks its joy again—-again.
Perhaps the aldermen are wise.
II: Pelicans
Funnel-web spider, snake and octopus,
pitcher-plant and vampire-bat and
shark—
these are cold water on an easy faith.
Look at them, but don’t linger.
If we stare too long, something looks
back at us ;
something gazes through from under-
neath,
something crooks a very dreadful finger
down there in an unforgotten dark.
Turn away then, and look up at the sky.
There sails that old clever Noah’s Ark,
the- well-turned, well-carved pelican
with his wise comic eye;
he turns and wheels down, kind as an
ambulance-driver,
to join his fleet. Pelicans rock together,
solemn as clowns in white on a circus-
river,
meaning, this world holds every sort of
weather.
Ill: The Currawong
The currawong has shallow eyes —
bold, shallow buttons of yellow glass
that see all round his sleek black skull.
Small birds sit quiet when he flies;
mothers of nestlings cry, Alas!
He is a gangster, his wife’s a moll.
But l remember long ago
(a child beside the seldom sea)
the currawongs as wild as night,
quarrelling, talking, crying so
in the scarlet-tufted coral-tree ;
and past them that blue stretch of light
the ocean, with its dangerous song.
Robber then and robber still,
he cries now with the same strange word,
“Currawong—currawong !”
that from those coxcomb trees / heard.
Take my bread and eat your fill,
bold, cruel and melodious bird.
IV: Extinct Birds
Charles Harpur in his journals long ago
(written in hope and love, and never
printed)
recorded the birds of his time’s forest —
birds long vanished with the fallen
forest —
described in copperplate on unread pages.
The scarlet satin-bird, swung like a lamp
in berries,
he watched in love, and then in hope
described it;
there was a bird, blue, small, spangled
like dew.
All now are vanished with the fallen
forest.
And he, unloved, past hope, was buried,
who helped with proud stained hands to
fell the forest,
and set those birds in love on unread
pages;
yet thought himself immortal, being a
poet.
And is he not immortal, where l found
him
in love and hope (dong his careful pages?
The poet vanished, in the vanished
forest,
among his brightly tinted extinct birds ?


BOOK SCOUT
search service for your out-of-print
Please send your requirements to
Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
LITERATURE AND WESTERN MAN
J. B. PRIESTLEY
Here is a Unique book which illuminates the glowing riches
of Western Man’s literary heritage, and traces the spirit of
each age in the writing of the last five centuries 51/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : J AUCKLAND
to the rank of prima donna if she is
injected with hormones”; it seems to
give great hope to housewives and
[journalists and even naturalists who
niay also be subjected to the pecking-
iorder; but who carried-out this noble
experiment?
No doubt these things are known
in learned places; but they are not
known by everybody, and it is
customary, in such cases, to quote the
authority. Moreover, when the
authority is quoted you get the addi-
tional advantage of first-hand observa-
tion which is always better than the
more recital of facts, however
curious.
There are times, too, when Pootman
(or his unknown authority) just doesn’t
seem to be right. Surely a dog. when
it lifts its leg against a post is not
marking-out the boundaries of its
living-space as Pootman suggests;
since they do it all along the street it
(seems, from one’s own humble observa-
tions, to be rather a way dogs have of
announcing to other dogs that they
'have visited the neighborhood, some-
what comparable to the way tourists
’scratch their names on signposts or
Ichalk-up “Foo Was Here.” And,
'incidentally, who was it who dis-
covered the appalling fact that the dog’s
(power of smell is “a million times
(stronger” than our own? What a world
of stench, if the figure is right, the poor
creatures must inhabit!
Finally, to end the complaints, it
must be said that, when he does con-
descend to state his authority. Poot-
man is sometimes much too brief about
lit. It was the invaluable Dr. Schenkel,
(of Switzerland, he says, who “rendered
la great service to science by learning
wolf-language after years of study and
compiling a veritable lexicon”; but
surely, in case one wanted to talk to
a wolf, it would be pleasant to be told
ja little more of their language beyond
the fact that, when they are defeated
in battle and do not wish to be
(slaughtered, they drop their ears and
tail.
Still, brief or arbitrary as they may
appear, there is no reason to doubt
most of Pootman’s assertions; and he
(certainly has sortie very curious facts,
flf most of us know by now that bees
(do a dance to show the hive where the
honey lies, we may not know that a
turkey, when it is fighting a peacock
and wishes to submit, usually gets
pecked to death because they do not
[Understand each other’s language; or
[that the snipe in the mating season
[“sings” by suddenly diving like a stone
and making its tail-feathers “whistle
like the bleating of a goat” and hence
is known as the “skygoat”; or that the
European jay deliberately (so it
appears) plants acorns in the earth so
that forests may grov to feed the future
generations of jays.
The book is particularly interesting
because, in its general drift, it is an
examination of intelligence as well as
instinct in the animal kingdom and a
survey of some of those occasions
when, as with the jay planting its
acorns, the mere chances of evolution
and “natural selection” do not seem
to be a sufficient explanation for
animal-behavior.
Pootman is a little scornful of the
beaver’s celebrated intelligence be-
cause. though it will continue to build
dams in the zoo. it never thinks of
piling-up the logs and escaping over
the top of them; but he is in favor of
the octopus, which opens mussels, to
which it is partial, by jamming a stone
between the lids of the shell to keep
them open; and he has also some
respect for a donkey of the First World
War which, apparently serving with the
German Army, refused to go past a
certain point towards the front line
after it had once been shelled at that
spot. Once again Pootman does not
quote his authority for this story; but,
if you can believe him, and there is
no reason not to. it was obviously a
very sensible donkey.
Reviewed Briefly
Free Fall: William Golding
(Faber). Trying to discover where he
lost his free-will (the sense that “can-
not be debated but only experienced,
like a color or the taste of potatoes”),
Sammy Mountjoy, successful modernist
painter, casts net after net back into
his past, seeking the “connection be-
tween the little boy, clear as spring
water, and the man like a stagnant
pool.” The connection is not clearly
located, but a vivid impression emerges
of a personality drifting lonely between
two worlds—the public world of fact
and system, where reality is disguised
in definitions, and the private world in
which the artist sees into the almost
unbearable nature of things. Mount-
joy experiences these worlds in various
ways during his childhood and school-
days in an English rural slum, in a
love-affair with a girl whom he ulti-
mately betrays, in marriage and in a
German p.-0.-w camp; but he is never
able to adjust himself to either world.
One hesitates to say whether the novel
as a whole succeeds, but it is full of
original perceptions strikingly des-
cribed, and when you dip back into it
you see that under the casual-seeming
surface the parts are ingeniously con-
nected. It is like a plan for a much
longer work, and would bear a lot of
re-reading.
* * * *
More Games, Puzzles and Pastimes:
(Odhams). A large book for small
people telling them everything from
how to keep goldfish and “tropicals”
to how to play cards, do party-tricks,
operate puppets and what-have-you.
* * * *
Poule de Luxe: Susan Yorke (Mac-
donald). This story of the double life
of Micheline. mistress of Old Jaspar
Crownendham (a tycoon who looks
“like a bum” but is rich and patronises
the arts) might be interesting to those
who know their way about Manhattan.
For the ordinary reader, though, there
are too many characters, and the tale
hasn’t much point
* * * *
The Humbler Creation: Pamela
Hansford Johnson (Macmillan). This
is a study of an Anglican minister’s
anguish of soul as he strives to cope
with the trivia of parish life, the irrita-
tions of domestic relationships, the
tragedy of being married to a woman
whom he cannot love. The life of the
London parish is drawn carefully and
with some light humor, and the com-
monplace quality of the minister's
temptations underlines the resources
that he must call up to meet them. It
will chiefly interest those associated
with such an Anglican parish but will
also have a wider appeal for its
sympathy.


t h
H
Facts
ere
are
e
o n
B
I
ioice of- the Experienced Man
on the Land for all Water Supply Needs
UU.il
ft
PROOF of the overall SUPERIORITY of Steel
Pipe over other types has long been established
—is still being established—on the basis of:
★ COSTS LESS —prices include all necessary couplings.
Not subject to damage by termites or rodents.
-fa When laid above ground, minimum possibility of damage
by stock or fire.
No deterioration from sunlight.
★ Pressure capacity far greater than most other types.
★ Pressure ratings unaffected by atmospheric temperature
variations.
★ Less likelihood of damage during installation, storing
and handling.
★ Intrinsic structural strength readily enables overhead,
vertical or building installations to be made with a
minimum of support.
These are the facts that have guided so many
shreivd buyers for so many years.
For OVERALL Performance and Satisfaction, SPECIFY
STEEL PIPE and ORDER Steel Pipe from your local
Hardware Store, Pastoral House
li
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS (distributors) PTY. LTD.
Branches: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong, Geelong, Launceston,
Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. Agencies: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
