

The Bulletin
Neal McCusker, Railwayman— page 32
Wednesday , May 18, 19o0r
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper,
"You'd think he'd recognise her for what she is!"


STUDY for
SUCCESS
Whatever your career, STOTT’S
can help YOU . . . .
Story Writing
Freelance Journalism
TV/Radio Writing
Showcards/T ickets
Salesmanship
Oaric. /Cartooning
Drawing/Sketching
Commercial Art
Typewriting
Shorthand
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
English/Arithmetic
Diesel; Radio
Draftsmanship
Dairy Farming
Soil Management
Window Dressing and
Display
Advertising
Stammering Correction
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Fane, Melbourne ; 149 Castle-
reagli St., Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Bris-
bane; 21 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 254 Murray
St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON ’
To STOTT'S: I'lease send me. without any
obligation, yonr Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AG K (S.UMO(ili)
BOOK HUNTER, 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service lor readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, bistory, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
A DON BITES DON
No piece of writing about the Aus-
tralian scene has disturbed so many
professors as the short book called If
the Gown Fits by the former Vice-
Chancellor of Adelaide University,
A. P. Rowe (Melbourne University
Press).
Australia is a new country which has
had to swallow large doses of professors
too quickly to make any general
evaluation of their various gradings of
quality as yet. Till only a little time
ago there were only very few universi-
ties in the Commonwealth, with very
few students and faculties by 1960
standards.
The limitation of the number of pro-
fessors and their eminence in the good
old days led them as a class to be
regarded with awe by almost every-
body, even occasionally by themselves.
They were scarce, good on the average
and therefore precious and esteemed
like choice caviare.
The craze for what is called uni-
versity education in the post-war era
has produced floods of university
students and floods of professors and
lecturers.
In Sydney University, to take an
example of what is happening, there
are already one-third as many profes-
sors and lecturers as there were
students before World War 11, and in
three years it is expected that the gap
will be narrowed and that there will be
one 1963 teacher to every two 1938
students.
The natural consequence is that pro-
fessors and lecturers (and some facul-
ties in the universities) are certainly not
what they were in quality. But the
increase in numbers and the decrease
in average quality has not been
matched by corresponding changes in
the attitude of the public, politicians
and other ignorant people. The label
“university man” still is that of the
educated and the word “professor”
implies zealous devotion to learning
and intellectual superiority. Some pro-
fessors of the new era find the kind
of admiration they get as a result
heady diet, very fattening to the ego.
Even the university authorities of Aus-
tralia in general seem to stand in awe
of professors and allow them to go
their own sweet ways.
There are, however, some who have
close contact with the universities who
are not afflicted with the universal awe
which is felt by hoi polloi and its other
instructors, the daily press. A. P.
Rowe is one of them.
At first glimpse he appears a rene-
gade to a noble profession, since don
does not usually tear the flesh of don
in public.
Fortunately for his readers and un-
fortunately for some sections of the
universities, he is not a don in the true
sense. He is a distinguished organiser
of scientific achievement . . . Chief
Superintendent of Telecommunications
Research Establishment from 1938 to
the end of the war, a misleading title,
since he was mainly concerned w'ith
organising the development of radar
and other scientific innovations. He
came to Australia in 1947 as Chairman
of the Defence Advisory Committee
and Defence Scientific Adviser to the
Commonwealth, and Adelaide Uni-
versity snapped him up at the end of
a two-year term of duty to become its
Vice - Chancellor. Melbourne Uni-
versity Press in its blurb introduces his
essay on university life, methods and
results in Australia in a more courtly
version of the kind of speech which a
professional sideshowman makes when
offering the public a sight of one of the
more savage types of African pygmy.
Others connected with the universi-
ties have not found it easy to be
detached, since they are not able to
view him in a cage of covers, and he
is no respecter of classes or persons.
Professors are apt to be the revolu-
tionaries of the age, some for Com-
munism, some for academic freedom
in morals and a general upsetting of
standards and habits to accord with
their own conscious or unconscious
longings. But they cease (naturally) to
esteem revolution when they are its
victims.
Rowe goes too far for them: he is
not for revolutionary reform as such
but for revolutionary reform in Aus-
tralian universities. He sets out to
monkey with the theories that provide
modern professors not only with about
£3500 a year but with sabbatical years
of freedom abroad for study whether
they study or not. He recommended
indeed at Adelaide that there should
be no overseas leave as a right but that
it should be given “only to the deserv-
ing in accordance with programmes
submitted to a committee.” And he
has a strange theory that university
teachers should be able to teach—and
teach.
He hits at Government interference
in universities. He hits at the shock-
ingly low pass-rates of students and at
the predisposing attitude of mind
which impels the bulk of students to
come looking, not for learning or even
knowledge, but for a diploma which
will get them a job. He attacks the
system under which large numbers of
students —thousands in fact—receiving
financial help commit themselves to
work for a firm or a Government for
a certain period after graduation as a
“pernicious,” ambition-killing system
of slavery.
He is shocked at the student attitude
to learning which assesses a lecture not
bearing on their professional course as
waste of time: —
In my time in the University of
Adelaide, world figures like Bertrand
Russell, Julian Huxley, Salvador
Madariaga and Arnold Toynbee
have talked in the great hall of the
university, but only a handful of
students attended. I have sat in a
partly filled room in the Students’
Union listening to one of the world’s
greatest thinkers . . . and through
its windows I have seen Australian
students lying on the grass with their
faces to the Australian sun.
In Australian universities, 4O
per cent, of Australian entrants fail to
graduate, and of those who do more
than 30 per cent, take more than the
minimum time.
Largely he feels this is due to
mediocre teaching, too many people
being appointed to teach without previ-
ous experience of teaching and with
the barest of inquiries about their
ability to teach. And what is even
worse is the assumption that, some-
how or other, they will learn to teach
with little or no guidance from experi-
enced teachers and that once appointed
it is assumed that members of an
academic staff have nothing to learn
about teaching and are beyond internal
or external criticism of their teaching-
methods.
While he blames low entrance
standards and the purely professional
aims of students as one of the two
main causes of Australia’s lagging
(i Continued on page 58)


ram
wm
m.
m
So many things that make life happier..
come through steel pipes
Life preserving water ... the gas and steam for
heating . . . lines of power and lighting ... oil and
the raw materials of industry all flow ceaselessly
through pipes of steel to keep factory, workshop
and laboratory supplied; to keep civilisation,
itself, alive.
Only steel pipe is so economical, so dependable.
Its superior mechanical strength and stability in
price and quality are other good reasons why
steel pipe is so widely used.
Before finalising your next project, talk “steel
piping” with Stewarts and Lloyds, the leading
Australian producer of welded and seamless steel
pipe.
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollon-
gong, Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay,
Kalgoorlie
SSG.I.6Q


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 18, 1960
Vol. 81—No. 4188
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 436-440 King William St.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
EXCELSIOR!
AS this is published the heads of
State of the Great Powers, though
without Red China, are beginning their
final climb to the summit of eternal
peace. The blizzard of contention and
hate, however, has enfolded them, and
peals of thunder come through the Red
fog from their Sherpa, Tenzing Khrush-
chev, who is plodding vociferously
towards the mountain-top.
Sherpa Khrushchev is even a better
publicity-man than those who set out,
particularly in the United States and
Russia, to filch the credit of climbing
Everest from Sir Edmund Hillary in
favor of Sherpa Tenzing. He is deter-
mined to be the pioneer of peace and
that the world shall know it, and no
rock or tree-root or bit of hard ice is
too insignificant for him to grasp or
push back in the faces of his hard-
breathing companions in achieving pre-
eminence.
His opportunity to display his
superiority as a peace-lover and the
inferiority of those with whom he was
to climb the summit came when he
succeeded in bringing down a Captain
Powers, who, in an American observa-
tion aircraft, was discovered 60,000 ft.
off the ground over Russia.
It appears, from the garbled and
mysterious news which has come out
of Moscow, that, discovering what was
apparently a “spy” aircraft over their
military bases, in the heart of Russia
over the Urals and 1200 miles from
the border, the military authorities
politely referred to Sherpa Khrushchev
himself before they shot it down with
a single shot from a unique rocket—
“a devastating repulse to the aggressor.”
The event conveniently took place
while the Supreme Soviet was holding
one of its rare two- or three-day meet-
ings during which it monotonously and
without variation ratifies the decrees
of the Kremlin dictators.
The plane, which was said by the
Soviet authorities to be without mark-
ings, apparently had been knocked to
bits, as one would expect from rocket-
blast, and “the inhabitants of neighbor-
ing village helped find fragments.”
Then it transpired that —at 60,000 ft.!
—the pilot detached himself from his
ejection-seat and without injury or
suffering from exposure to the rare
atmosphere and extreme cold of the
higher regions, floated down and
carried with him his photographic
lockers full of incriminating photo-
graphs, a pistol and a number of ladies’
wedding-rings which suggested that he
was bound on a matrimonial expedi-
tion into nether Arabia rather than on
a spying expedition into the Workers’
Only Fatherland.
He was in such good condition on
arrival on Mother Earth that he was
able to talk like a garrulous schoolgirl
and give the Russians all the informa-
tion they needed.
~COR the next few days radio-channels
throughout the world were choked
with the most curious information —
such as that, although the aircraft had
been shot-down by a rocket, the blast
did not even set-off a large quantity of
TNT which had been placed to explode
under the pilot’s ejection-seat and blow
him to smithereens along with the air-
craft when he touched the ejection-
button.
The American side of the matter was,
as usual, handled at lower levels by
officials in Washington in the most
bungling manner. The flight at such
a time was a piece of shocking clumsi-
ness.
It was alleged that the plane, a
Lockheed U-2 weather-plane, wore
clear identification on its tail-assembly
and that it had gone missing from a
field near Adana, in Cilicia, when on the
Lake Van beam—a point in space
where the most mysterious things have
a habit of happening to the most inno-
cent aircraft and where it is believed
that the Russians have had a beam to
lead the unwary astray.
Khrushchev, bellowing like a bull,
threatening to destroy rocket-bases in
countries which act as host to recon-
naissance aircraft and reviling the
black ingratitude of the United States
and suggesting that the incident might
produce failure of the Summit Confer-
ence, made the most of it, and gave
the assurance that it was en route
Pakistan to Norway.
He knew that he could be assured
from the beginning of the help of the
daily press in the Western world, which
is not under the disadvantage of being
under stern Government control as in
Russia and which makes the most of
its freedom. He knew that if he bel-
lowed loudly enough the greater part
of this press would swallow the most
improbable yarns and retail his
circulation-building phrases of abuse;
that it would turn on its own Gov-
ernments and ferret - out secret
information about the intelligence
operations of Nato and the Western
Governments, designed for the protec-
tion of the West, including newspaper
proprietors, and relay it to him and
the world at large in the interest of sales
development.
This has been done irrespective of
the fact that it is all aid to the enemy,
who, while posing in an attitude of
lilywhite innocence, has maintained a
worldwide spy and subversion net-
work —two of his spies were caught in
Switzerland last week.
When the matter of the spy-aircraft
reached Presidential level in the U.S.
for treatment it was placed in proper
perspective. It was admitted that
aerial observations were made of
Russia as one of the few means of
guarding the West against deliberately
fostered plans of aggression, which have
kept the world under arms and on a
war-defence alert for nearly two
decades and diverted thousands-of-
millions of pounds a year to the neces-
sary purposes of building up armament
as a precaution against the filch-and-
grab policy which is eating into the free
world from Russia —a nation which
betrayed the Allies that saved it in
World War 11.
TNSTEAD of disarming almost com-
A pletely as did the British and Ameri-
cans in the years following the end of
the war, the U.S.S.R. proceeded to re-
arm on a tremendous scale while
snatching Eastern Europe behind the
Iron Curtain, handing China over to the
Communists in betrayal of an ally and
arming Mao’s forces with Japanese war
material which belonged to its allies
and which Moscow, in effect, stole for
the purpose.
The whole trend of Russian policy
has been based on aggression and bad
faith, and has been directed towards
snatching more and more territory into
the Communist maw by force,
treachery, massacre or subversion.
In the light of its record, one spy out
of the sky is of little more importance
from a moral point of view in Moscow
than one fly out of the sky.
While Khrushchev has been yelling
blue murder and trying, obviously, to
force a cancellation of the conference
and put off the evil day when he will
have to prove whether he is ready to
make peace with the capitalistic world
or whether he is prepared to use force
to engulf Berlin and hold East Ger-
many, President Eisenhower is just
digging in his ice-axe and, crying
“Excelsior,” plodding steadily upwards
towards the summit. The Kremlin bluff
is being called.
In the end, unless he is trying to
make a pretext for war, Sherpa
Khrushchev will finish the climb either
on the rope with the rest or down the
jslope among the also-rans.




PLAIN ENGLISH
The Summit and Berlin
The real issues before the Summit Con-
ference this week seem to have been lost
in the fog produced by Khrushchev’s
propaganda-blast about United States
spying and in the heavy rain of his
crocodile-tears at the thought that any-
body should be so wicked as to try to
find out how much strength lies behind
his continued threats to blow the world
to smithereens if it does not fall in with
his plans for holding T)nto East Germany
and the rest of his satellites.
That there should be any spying at a
moment when he has suddenly reconsti-
tuted the' Government and the high com-
mands of the armed forces of the
U.S.S.R. and reorganised his armies in
a way to place nuclear weapons in
the forefront of his battle-line, he par-
ticularly seems to find bewildering—if
his beilows of protest may be believed.
He has certainly not allayed uneasiness
by his actions, which smell all too much
like the normal technique of the. Kremlin
when it is looking for an excuse to resort
to aggressive force.
The incident belongs to the same family
as Moscow’s framing of an excuse for
invading Finland —that a small nation of
3f million was about to attack mighty
Russia.
The true basis of the disturbance
emanating from Moscow has not been
yet evaluated. It might be
(1) a first rribve preliminary to an
ultimatum to the members of the Summit
Conference to get out of Berlin, or else —
a preliminary, in fact, to presently justify
the use of lorce in a premeditated attack
on the West, organised under cover of
the recent goodwill missions and negotia-
tions for the Summit meeting;
(2) genuine anger at discovering,
through some accident or treachery which
brought the U-2 aircraft into the Soviet
clutches, exactly what the United States
must know about the strength and weak-
nesses of the military machine and heavy
industry of the U.S.S.R.;
(3) a mere clumsy bluff designed to
set the press of the West against its
leaders and enable him to attend the
conference with the initiative and in a
position of moral superiority before the
world;
t 4) an attempt to divide the West and
take advantage of the division.
The -press of the West, which notices
almost every minute detail that can be
culled about the weaknesses in its own
leaders’ position, has been singularly un-
observant about the recent hurried
changes on the governmental and mili-
tary front in Russia and their co-ordina-
tion with an upsurge of Communist
activity to disrupt Western industries
connected with transport and fuel pro-
duction —such as has been happening
in a concerted way in Australia with the
Communist-led unions in coal, shipping
and waterside unions, among others.
They read no significance beyond
pique into the cancellation of the visit
of the Chief of the Soviet Union Air
Staff to the United States —a visit which
seemed rather improbable in the light of
the other developments taking place.
They could scarcely fail, if they
examined Khrushchev’s speech on arrival
in Paris, to find it ominous. He came
24 hours early to get at de Gaulle. He
listed the problems to be discussed at the
summit in this order: Berlin, disarma-
ment and East-West relations.
The East German “Government” has
been engaged in “collectivising” farms, a
move which forms the background for a
plan to take full control of the food-
supply. It ’has been forced to use extreme
and illegal measures to prevent wholesale
flight of East Germans to the West —
about a quarter of the population has
risked death to flee since the Russians
took over.
It celebrated. Khrushchev’s arrival in
Paris with an announcement that it might
hold a plebiscite of East Germans to
determine whether the Western Allies
should be allowed to continue to supply
their forces in Berlin. Everybody knows
what sort of a plebiscite it would be.
If Khrushchev is determined to make
agreement on Berlin a condition prece-
dent to discussion of the other items on
the agenda, and if he is prepared to carry
out his threat to make a separate peace
with East Germany, his satellite, and
oust the West from Berlin, then the world
had better look out for itself.
This week should tell the story.
Betting-shops
Victoria is again within sight of betting-
shops after the Liberal Government’s
first attempt to legalise off-course tote
betting foundered in the Legislative
Council last November against combined
Labor and Country-party opposition.
This time it scraped through the Legis-
lative Assembly, 32 to 29, on a “con-
science” vote in which nine Liberals and
three Country-party members joined in
the Labor stand against it. The Govern-
ment had meanwhile provided for cash
bets that were not part of the 1959
legislation. still not satisfied with
the bill’s provision for the small-time
cash-bettor, had wanted it postponed for
six months.
Since it is easier to predict the result
of a party vote than of a “conscience”
vote, the fate of the bill when it goes
to the Upper House is still not certain.
Some hard lobbying is going on.
Waverers in the Liberal and Country
parties on the morality of off-course
betting will have to choose, it seems,
between rejecting it and thus renewing
encouragement for illegal s.-p. betting,
and accepting it with the risk that bet-
ting-shops might develop an unsavory
environment.
But, regardless of the social sig-
nificance of this present project of
authorising betting off the course, the
“conscience” vote of the Liberals and
the Country party is interesting. It is
unusual to see democracy operating in
Parliament without the Whips at work.
It was a “conscience” vote that, in
1958, wiped out the barbarity of live-
bird trap-shooting in Victoria, its last
Australian stronghold. B o 11 e, the
Premier, and Sir Herbert Hyland, the
Country party leader, voted together on
that occasion in an attempt to preserve
the legal right to maim and massacre.
On the present Betting Bill, they again
voted together on what is so far the
winning side. They are likely to earn
less discredit for trying to reform bet-
ting than for trying to preserve the
shooting of trapped birds as an officially
approved- pastime.
No Trains on Sunday
For 14 Sundays on end now there have
been no trains in Victoria except for
some of the long-distance expresses. The
Railways Commissioners are sitting pat
on their refusal to run Sunday trains
until the railwaymen withdraw the limits
on overtime they have imposed in an
effort to win the service grants that the
Arbitration Commission has refused. The
railwaymen, also sitting pat, are going
without their Sunday overtime-pay and
without some of their Saturday overtime-
pay, too.
It is a pretty good bet that, if Sunday
timetables are resumed, they will be
skimpier than they were before the shut-
down. And the inured public will have
got out of the habit of using Sunday
trains, anyway. The commissioners are
saving money, the railwaymen are losing
it, and both are burying the reputation
of the service.
It used to be the boast that Flinders-
street station was the busiest in the world.
Now, on Sundays, it is deader than a
s'iding in Ruanda-Urundi.
/
Problems of Export
[From Canberra]
The Commonwealth Government, par-
ticularly the Trade Department, is plac-
ing great store on the outcome of the
National Export Convention which the
Governor - General, Lord Dunrossil,
opened on Tuesday.
From this representative gathering of
200 the Government is looking for the
foundation for a new export policy
which, within five years, will increase
Australia’s export income from the
current £950 million to £I2OO million at
least.
Briefly the problems can be grouped
into two major categories.
Firstly, because of current overseas
trends, Australia’s agricultural industries
will face ever-increasing difficulties on
world markets, and their future role is
likely to be more one of consolidation
than expansion.
Secondly, and consequent upon the
first problem, secondary industry will be
called On to play an ever-increasing part
in building-up the export cheque.
Australia can and does produce
secondary goods of world class but,
unfortunately, not at competitive world
prices.
And this difficulty will remain until
the impelling need to reach out to new
markets is impressed on every sector
of industry, from the management down


to the least skilled worker. When it is
realised, and the extra effort needed is
put forward, then costs will begin to
stabilise.
It is for this reason that the Export
Development Council, which is staging
the convention with the backing of the
Trade Department, is bringing together
as wide a cross-section of the community
as possible.
Represented at the convention will be
all major primary and secondary indus-
tries, commerce, bankers, insurance
organisations, management and the
unions.
To have staged such a forum with-
out union representation would have
doomed it to failure before it even
began.
After all, it is the unionist who pro-
duces the goods that are to be exported,
and unless he realises the absolute
necessity to produce in ever-greater
quantities at the lowest possible price,
the question of increasing exports can
be forgotten completely.
The United Front in Gippsland
Labor cries of “McCarthyism” follow
the technique learnt from the Commu-
nist party of smearing by label an oppo-
nent who has too strong a case to
answer; the cries won't be enough to
offset the effect of the statement of
Dixon, president of the Communist
Party of Australia, about the importance
of securing control of the central sources
of power- and fuel-production in Vic-
toria, and the United Front gift of
control of the crucial area to the Com-
munists.
The fact is reported to be that when
there was a former upsurge of Communist
activity in 1948 —one which culminated
in the coal-strike in the following year
and the use of the military and passage
of the Arbitration Act amendment by
the Chifley Government to try to curb
activities which their own tolerance of
sabotage and subversion had unloosed—
the president of the Communist party
made the following statement regard-
ing Victoria:
The key to all Communist activity—
particularly in the event of war—is to
control the trade-unions and the Labor
Council at Yallourn. From there we
can turn out every light. We would have
real power and we would use it.
There is no doubt but that the Vic-
torian A.L.P. or its members have been
conniving to push moderates out of office
in the unions and combinations of unions
through toleration of unity-tickets at
polls.
W. C. Wentworth moved in the House
of Representatives last week that “in the
opinion of the House the truth about
certain happenings in the Latrobe Valley
should be ascertained and made public”
—the Latrobe Valley producing 75 per
cent, of Victoria’s power.
He said that elements in the Victorian
Trades Hall connected with the Vic-
torian A.L.P. Executive not only con-
nived at the establishment of Commu-
nist control of the Gippsland Trades and
Labor Council, which steers the Latrobe
Valley ynions, but helped to arrange it.
Mr. Wentworth’s charge was that two
A.L.P. tickets had been issued, one for
public consumption with figures placed
only opposite the names of A.L.P. men,
and a real ticket which showed numbers
for the Communist candidates and
achieved a vote of 48 votes each for
A.L.P. and Communist candidates. He
said that in the election there was “cer-
tainly fraud and perhaps forgery.”
He added that the secretary of the
Gippsland Trades and Labor Council
had last March appealed to Mr. Calwell
to take action on the attempts of Com-
munists with the support of Labor men
to take over the Council, but Calwell
had “made no reply. He sat mute and
let events take their course.”
Labor’s reply consisted mainly in
shouts of “Cuckoo,” and occasional
remarks that some particular statement
was a lie.
No answer was provided to the un-
doubted fact that by some means, with
voters, presumably, who were all or
mostly supporters of the A.L.P., the
Communists and helot Labor delegates
from a Communist-controlled union,
have taken over command of the Trades
and Labor Council in an area which is
the source of most of Victoria’s indus-
trial power.
In the same way, the Seamen, Coal-
miners, Waterside Workers and the
Federal organisation of the Australian
Railway Union, with a tiny Communist
membership among them, have fallen
under Communist leadership or control.
The only explanation that could be
logically offered seems to be that the
A.L.P. is no longer providing its own
leaders and that the Communist party
can enlist at will any part of its rank-
and-file.
Chair-lift for Melbourne?
Having done nothing to provide trans-
port under the city and nothing to put
a roof over railway marshalling-yards
that make a waste of a potentially invit-
ing central site, Melbourne is now think-
ing of chair-lift tourist rides across or
up the Yarra.
The City Council has agreed that its
public-works committee should look into
a proposal by Councillor E. L. Curtis
to give Melbourne a gimmick of this
sort —“a feature different from anything
else in any capital-city.”
As envisaged by Cr. Curtis, who says
that chair-lifts have become popular and
profitable in Europe, the routes might be
across the river from Treasury Gardens
to the Botanic Gardens or up the river
beside the Botanic Gardens, the cars to
carry 500 people an hour each way.
The reaction so far has been mostly
jocular or sceptical. Among those who
take the sky - riding proposal more
seriously, the idea of 24 pylons support-
ing 7000 ft. of cable to bring an alpine
touch to Melbourne also means the
spoliation of the parks.
Protective Step
[From Canberra]
The seriousness with which the Com-
monwealth Government views the latent
threat from economic blocs has been
emphasised in the appointment of Sir
Edwin McCarthy as Ambassador to the
European Economic Community Com-
mission.
McCarthy, who will also carry on his
present duties as Ambassador to the
Netherlands and Belgium, will be
“Johnny on the spot.”
His main task will be to keep the
Commonwealth informed of moves,
preferably before they happen, which
could constitute a threat to trade between
Australia and E.E.C. countries.
Although the Government believes
trading and economic blocs can do much
to lift world trade generally, it sees in
them a possible threat to the trade of
countries outside the blocs.
Senate Voting
Though figures are apt to be boring,
some quoted by the Minister for the
Interior in reply to a question in Parlia-
ment by Mr. Whitlam the other day seem
to speak volumes about the varying
intelligence of electors as between States,
the failure of the education system in
some of them, and the need for reform
of the Senate system of voting.
Mr. Freeth produced a list of the
percentage of informal votes cast for
both Houses of Parliament at the last
election (1958), and they are a staggering
commentary on the system of voting
and/or human intelligence.
Only 62 out of the 122 electorates in
which polls were taken had less than 10
per cent, of informalities in the Senate
vote, and, of these, 29 were in Queens-
land and South Australia, neither of
which had a single electorate in which
the figure rose above 10 per cent. The
average in both was nearer4o 7 per cent.'
overall, and one constituency—Bowman
(Q.) —scored as low as 4.8 per cent.
Tasmania had only one seat out of
five with an informality poll of less than
10 per cent., but Victoria chalked-up 21
out of 33 below the 10-p.c. line
and W.A. six out of nine.
N. S. Wales qualified as the
Dunce State by several lengths. Out of
46 electorates which polled, only five
scored less than 10 per cent, of informal
Senate votes, and the whole average
informality-rate per electorate was about
twice that of Queensland. A third of
the electorates in the 7 Mother State
chalked-up around 13 per cent, or over,
and six of them showed over 15 per cent.
—a figure which only one electorate
among 76 in the rest of the Common-
wealth could lay claim to. That was
Scullin (Vic.), which returns Mr. Edward
William Peters, and which also was
shamed by one of the highest records of
informality in the House of Reps, elec-
tion —4.57 per cent. Mr. Calwell’s elec-
torate polled an informal 14.59 p.c.
The Grand Champion of Champions
Dunce Electorate?
It needs only one guess: the electorate
that returns Eddie Ward —18.46 of infor-
malities in the Senate vote, 4.57 p.c. in the
Reps. vote.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A Newcastle (N.S.W.) judge inter-
rupted a homily to a couple of
youths with what must be the acme
of good manners in juristic circles. He
was telling them: “You’re not cut-out
for a life of crime. You will always get
caught. You haven't enough brains for
that sort of thing.” Considerately, he
interpolated, “I don’t want you to be
offended . . .” —“N. O’Sirrah.”
♦♦♦ +>
“0.G.”: I know a septuagenarian
whose contempt for politicians is so
intense that he won’t even vote informal.
Ever since compulsory voting he has
accepted party how-to-vote slips, col-
lected his ballot-paper, made a few
pencil-marks,, put the ballot-paper in his
pocket and a how-to-vote slip in the
ballot-box. At home he drops the ballot-
papers in a drawer and forgets about
them. Thus unintentionally he has accu-
mulated what must be one of the rarest
collections in the world. Not only does
he get it for nothing, he saves a £2-fine
every time he adds to his collection.
, ,
But, because the papers are smeared
with the names of politicians, he won’t
admit that his collection has any value!
The ballot-paper he picked at random
to show me had no date on it, but it had
apparently given him great pleasure to
obey one instruction ; he had placed
a figure in every square, a very deter-
mined-looking naught.
♦*„
ato» T c ■ r , .
lts f ur , stagC j - n
our suburb, on adjacent blocks and in
this order: Infant Health Centre,
Kindergarten, Primary School and Pen-
sioners’ Hall.
“Pat’ : The door-to-door canvasser
took less than five minutes to sell me
a handsome set of books by easy monthly
payments. I went off to rake-up the
10-bob deposit from the three children’s
money-boxes and returned to find her
still struggling with the mathematics of
the docket. Invited to assist, I suggested
"... for the 14,598th time in forty years , you
old goat —TWO LUMPS, NOT ONE!”
that it was not practicable to subtract
£2l from a mere £2O. It took me more
than five minutes, at the mercy of a
bitterly cold westerly, too, to convince
the lady of this simple fact. “I was
never any good at maths,” said she
happily, writing-out the docket for the
third time under my instruction. I
observed sourly that my seven-year-old
could do that sort of simple arithmetic
without error. “Oh, yes,” she agreed,
unperturbed, “but it’s being able to sell
the books quickly and collect the cash-
deposit that matters, isn’t it!” Touche.
<s* <s*
“Anne Marie”: Not only Chinese
fresh-water deep-freeze prawns (B.
4/5/’6O) are on sale; in Canberra we
can also buy Jap rainbow-trout deep-
frozen at 3s. 3d. each!
❖ ❖ *
“Ex-ACT”: An air-conditioned float-
ing-hotel for 200 guests, with its own
swimming-pool, has been built for
cruising on the Rhine. The journey
up-river from Rotterdam to Basel will
take 5y days (with the ship tied-up each
evening), and the downstream trip will
be done in 3| days. Something of the
sort might revive the Murray tourist
industry.
❖ ❖ ❖
A s one who was brought into con-
tact with many A.I.F. leaders,
I would put the late “Red Robbie”
Robertson last. He was a dashing cavalry-
leader with the Light Horse in the
Kaiser’s War—but even the Earl of
Cardigan could lead a cavalry-charge.
When I served under Robertson he was
the only general, as far as I know, who
insisted on all the troops rising and
standing at attention until he had taken
his seat at a camp
picture - show. He
insisted on the
Armored Division
killing time in W.A.
long after there was
any chance of the
Japs invading Aus-
tralia. He had men
put on charge-sheets
for trifling offences
or none at all, as
was proved when
the G.O.C. Western
Command, Gordon
Bennett, quashed
them on appeal. He
would never listen
to anyone even
Blarney would give
a man the chance to
state his case. In
the last war his one
real demonstration of
leadership in action
was at the taking
of Benghazi —-
against Italians ; he
was not given a job
to do against Rom-
mel’s Africa Korps
or the Japs in New
Guinea. One really
good thing he did
seldom gets a men-
tion ; he insisted on an all-weather road
being constructed to link Alice Springs
with Darwin while he was Commandant
there. For seeking the welfare of troops
I’d award the prize to Gordon Bennett,
while as a decent all-round man and
good soldier I’d nominate Vasey.—
“Ex-R.S.M.”
THE BROKEN HEART
“Sydney actors Dinah Shearing and Rodney
Milgate were married at All Saints’ Church,
Woollahra, on Monday, May 9.”
Young and studious, wan and pale,
l lost my heart to Sadie Gale,
Too good for Mo, l thought; so pure,
Those eyes so naughtily demure.
Fair as my next love was of feature,
Ginger Rogers’s good-nature
Was why, throughout that long affair
I tolerated Fred Astaire.
But when I saw “Salome” read
Margaret Rawlings took my head
And carried it from place to place
On platters of her insolent grace.
Next, when l went to London town,
Enid Stamp-Taylor’s glittering gown
Descending those long stairs to me
Shivered with all my ecstacy ;
And when I landed in New York
Gertrude Lawrence went to work
And her affection seemed to twine
Round everything on stage, and mine.
Back in Sydney Town, I guess
I thought I’d done with actresses
Until that fox-face bridged the gulf
And made me want to be a wolf:
Lovely in love—my God, that voice !
That critical, that on-stage poise:
“This is the character I’m not” —
Well, Rodney Milgate s copped the lot . ..
I’ll write a play, and that’s a fact,
Where, dying in the final act,
I’ll murmur sadly : “How it’s hurtin !
Oh, Dinah ! Dinah Shearing ! ”
[Curtain.]
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


Tmpressive as was the pageantry and
the stateliness and the simple dignity
of the Royal Wedding, I couldn’t
help feeling, while looking down with
the TV - cameras on to the magnifi-
cent cavalcade leaving the Abbey, that
there was some little thing lacking. Now,
had a few of Tony Jones’s cobbers
planted themselves at strategic points
along the aisle, as some of mine did
when 1 made my slow procession past
the pews, and murmured in not-so -sotto
voices such homely remarks as “Oats
for goats,” “Mugs for luck,” “You poor
cow!” etc., I feel that not only would
a common touch have been achieved
but that the long rows of solemn phizes
one glimpsed might even have been
stretched into grins.—“ Bo.”
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: Two advertisements in
“Police Life,” monthly mag. of the Vic-
toria Police Force, caught my eye. One,
for a book on criminal law and pro-
ceedings, which “sets-out very clearly the
facts which must be proved in order to
convict a person charged with any of
the most common crimes and mis-
demeanors”; the other, offering “rifles,
all makes and calibres ; telescopic sights
and mounts a speciality ; pistols bought,
sold, repaired.” When the police are
out to score a bull’s-eye one way or the
other, what chance has the poor old
criminal got?
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: Despite violent disagree-
ment about the South African- tour it
looks as if the future of Rugby football
in N.Z. is quite safe. Seats in a new
double-deck grandstand being built at
Athletic Park, Wellington, are being sold
to the public at £lOO each for a term of
20 years ; 750 are being offered at that
price.
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Little native caddies
are nothing if not loyal to their em-
ployers, especially if regular employers.
They are not above kicking a balk out of
a bunker or the rough, or onto a good
lie, if they can do so unobserved. Two
friends played a friendly match every
week together, and one always said
jokingly to his caddy, “If you see Mr.
J ’s ball, stamp on it.” They hadn’t gone
far one day when Mr. J. bawled out,
“Hey, he is ! ”
❖ ❖ *
“Roomy”: Prospects for the genera-
tion about to become grandparents are
depressing ; if we intend gathering as yet
hypothetical grandchildren round our
knees for a bedtime-story we shall be
forced, in order to keep our audience,
to acquire a knowledge of mechanics.
Mechanics, reports the London “Times,”
are what the modern child wants to read
about; “Brightly - colored isotopes ex-
plaining. .. .the principles on which the
pyramids were built,” “Enticing picture-
books expounding the molecular struc-
ture of the universe,” and “aerodynamics
for toddlers.” Grannies who decide to
remain faithful to old-fashioned fauna
like Benjamin Bunny and Winnie-the-
Pooh might as well save their breath and
knit blue stockings.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Joanne”: Parramatta (N.S.W.) began
its telephone-service in 1894 with 16
subscribers, four still in the directory:
"I’m not sure whether this Was intended
at the back.”
Murray Bros., Ltd., No. 1 ; the Wool-
pack Hotel, No. 6; Parramatta Gaol,
No. 14; and Bruntons Flour Mills,
No. 16. Twenty-five users were needed
to ensure a continuous service, so sub-
scribers couldn’t ring-up after 10 p.m. on
Saturday until the next Monday morn-
ing. Newtown got the first automatic
exchange in N.S.W. in June, 1914;
Parramatta’s was opened in November,
1915.
+j*
“Cece”: Scraggy kitten wandered into
our yard, ate everything not nailed down
and became permanent and scraggier
than ever. Fellow who passes the gate
every morning cast accusing glances at
the house and started dropping a tiny
parcel of minced - steak over the fence
to puss. In a few days puss got the idea
and sat out on the path to collect his
steak. Word got on the cat-grapevine
and now the poor fellow does his best
to scoot down the street in front of a
better cat-procession than the Pied
Piper’s rats. He gives us and all cats a
filthy look now.
* * *
“W.P.T.”: Motorist called at a Parra-
matta service-station and asked for petrol
and air. “Just come back from Mel-
bourne?” asked the garageman. “That’s
right,” replied the motorist, “but how
do you know?” “When I was checking
the air in your tyres I could smell the
Melbourne air,” he replied. “There’s
nothing like it, mate. It makes a man
feel homesick.”
“Sackfair”: Remember those cadet
uniforms (B. 20/4/60) issued to us Aus-
tralia’s Last Hopes,
the Junior Cadets,
about 1922? Some
bright brain, evi-
dently under the im-
pression that lads
between 14 and 16
were too young to
wear proper military
uniforms, conceived
a fearsome - looking
outfit, cloth hat as
worn in the best kin-
dergartens, shoes like
a cross between
sandshoes and san-
dals (in the days
when the only male
known to have worn
sandals was the re-
cently - departed
Chidley), golf-socks,
extremely baggy
khaki shorts and a
khaki guernsey. The
ensemble made the
most intelligent or
insensitive youth
look or feel like the
village idiot. It caused
more absenteeism
from compulsory
parades than any
other known reason
before or since. May-
be that was why the
issue was never repeated. But viewed
from these days, it is amazing that the
item most vehemently objected to was the
shorts. The horrified “big biokes” (16th
birthday that year) wore their civvie
long-’uns or knickerbockers to parades,
and changed into the embarrassing shorts
at the drill - hall. In those times a scout-
master caused feminine giggling simply
because he displayed his knees in public.
♦;< *i* *>
“Apemantus”: Oh, no, “Bo,” no,
“Bo,” no! When your rapidly up-wound
car-window (B. 27 /4 / ’6O) stopped a
hefty punch without breaking, that
didn’t prove it “shatterproof”; shatter-
proofing is demonstrated only if the glass
is broken. More venomous insults might
have developed enough weight and vice
in your opponent’s slam to smash it
through. Then, if your window were
“plate” it would have shattered into an
easily-countabfe number of weighty,
sizable, razor-sharp missiles, chisels and
hacking-gouges. You and your assailant
would have been considerably cut-up.
If your glass is “shatterproof,” at the
moment of fracture it would have be-
come opaquely-white because it had
simultaneously shattered into many
thousands of particles lacking cutting-
edges, each separate one being light


enough not to become effective shrapnel.
These particles might all have fallen
clear, or many might have remained in
position, leaving only an aperture with
not-very-abrasive edges, and so allowing
the ham-fist to enter without excessive
damage —except, perhaps, to you. It is
this quality of shattering into light, blunt-
edged comparatively - harmless crystals
that is making safety-glass a condition
to the licensing of 'vehicles. As to that
incredibly-true claim etched on the car-
window, take another look. It may say
“safety” or “armored,” but I’ll lay a
shade of odds in outdated pawn-tickets
that it doesn’t mention “shatterproof.”
That is a salesman’s charm-word for
safety-glass. It is technically incorrect
but sufficiently truly descriptive to give
verve and confidence to the driving of
the man who fears not death but
mutilation.
Che was very old and very small,
flatly refused to be washed more
than once a day, and always insisted on
looking over the meal-dishes before
accepting one. She lay in bed reading
the same small book for three weeks.
When asked why she didn’t finish it,
she said she didn’t want to—it was a
nice book and if she finished it she
wouldn’t have it to read. She was
allowed to get up, but didn’t much care
to ; then at last the day came when she
was told she could go home. This she
didn’t want. It was a comfortable place
and the meals were very good. However,
the bed was needed, and one day two
ambulancemen came to move her. She
put up a good fight, telling the ward that
she couldn’t possibly go home with two
strange men, even if they were ambulance
officers. Weight won, and she was tucked
“Well, you said to bring my music, didn't you ?”
onto the stretcher,' and borne back to
her bare room and life on the pension.—
“Matilda.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Children’s toys are
a favorite study of psychoanalysts, who'll
have a field-day at the Melbourne Toy
Fair from May 16 to 21. Twenty-nine
British companies have joined with the
U.K. Board of Trade to put on a display
in a stand covering 2500 sq. ft. British
toys are claimed to be still first-favorites
in Australian nurseries, with Japan
running second and Germany third.
*> *X* ❖
“Rke”: Fellow-citizen got no response
to the polite, not-so-polite, and down-
right impolite warnings to the owner of
the old bomb regularly parked in his
drive-entrance, which he had illuminated
to foil petrol-milkers. Got mad one
night, hopped into the bomb and drove
it clean to the bottom of the hill and
panted his way home up the hill antici-
pating a straight drive through from his
own garage to the street. A new charac-
ter, with new car securely locked, had
taken - over the space. Fellow - citizen
stayed home from the pictures, bunked
on the settee on the front-veranda in
a freezing temperature, and stayed
awake half the night to have it out with
the owner of the snazzy bit of duco and
chromium. Owner retrieved his vehicle in
the other half of the night while fellow-
citizen was practically anaesthetised with
frost. Only warm thing about it all, his
wife reported, was the language,
*** *** ***
“Narumee”: Someone mentioned “A
Tale of Two Cities,” and I, as the only
middle-aeer present, wasn’t given a
chance to murmur, “Ah, you should have
see n Ronald Colrnan!”—the young all
had seen Ronald Colrnan, on TV, and
were arguing fiercely as to whether the
Bogarde Carton or the Colrnan Carton
was the more fab. Colman topped the
poll by a large majority and so I was
forced to fall back on: “Ah, you should
have seen Sir John Martin-Harvey! ”
❖ ♦>
“Artie'’: Mother made a wonderful
buy at the white-elephant stall ; an old-
fashioned china shaving-mug with a
perforated top for the soap over the
hot-water container. Mum thought it
would be a useful vehicle for one of
her quaint floral arrangements. Teenager
son was quite intrigued with it; he
thought it was a gadget for separating
the white of an egg from the yolk.
♦J* *£♦ »J*
“Sack”: I’m as big a square as any-
thing Pvthagoras ever thought-up, but I
must admit that at least one rock-’n’-roll
singer on TV has talent. It takes a real
artist to sense the feeling of his unseen
audience and select an appropriate
number for his next item. And the young
bloke did exactly that. It was the first
time I’d heard of a song called “Don’t
Destroy Me.”
DECLINE OF A PARAGON
“The husband who compares, to her detri-
ment, his wife’s domestic skills with those of
his mother —who could well be far from the
model of efficiency his fancy paints her —is
treading a dangerous marital path.”— Women’s
magazine.
For her home-running, always endow
Your Mum with the rank of a wonder,
For it seems, qt this distance, somehow
That she couldn’t in any way blunder.
Yet, don’t you remember the days
When your sox would for weeks go
undarned,
And the rips in your strides, and the
frays,
Remained as they were while she
yarned ?
A clean shirt you never could find;
You would wash one yourself, in the
end.
She might have been good, even kind,
But she just couldn’t learn how to
mend.
In the cooking line Mum was a wow;
Her dishes were rich in invention —
But think back a little, on how
Those experiments caused you dis-
tension.
Her rock-cakes would not decompose
Though you dunked ’em for minutes
in tea ;
Her sponges all tasted like those
That abide on the bed of the sea.
On the bottom her casseroles caught,
Her duffs were as tough as a wreath;
To chew on her pastry was fraught
With terrible danger to teeth.
So remember: it all in the etid
Resolves itself into this question :
Do you wish stomach-lining to rend,
And enjoy bouts of good indigestion?
If so, when the strife starts to cook,
Deride all her methods, her touch ; /
Scorn the way she abides by the book
Instead of just guessing how much.
Instruct her in full in the M'ays
Of your mother in days that have gone.
This must earn you her thanks and her
praise —- 1
Or a crack with the pan on your scone !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


A radio serial I listen to occasionally
has just told us that Dave has en-
listed for the war and Dad has joined the
V.D.C. —“Eureka.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“Narumee”: The well-preserved guest
at the women’s tea-party embroidered
her news-item with rash detail:
and now he actually wants to marry
again—at his age! And she's an absolute
child —nearly ten years younger than I
am!” Immediately another guest
probed: “How old would he be exactly?
Forty-five?” “More like fifty-five,” the
well-preserved one rushed on ; “I know,
because he was at school with Fred—
very senior to him, of course.” “Of
course,” said the prober. “And how
much younger than him did you say the
girl he wants to marry is?” Now the
well-preserved one became aware that
rows of eager eyes awaited the answer
that would render her own age no longer
uncertain. “I didn’t say,” she came back
with honeyed sweetness. “You see I was
sure you knew how to do simple sub-
traction ! ”
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Maitri”: The class had just been in-
formed that Paris had probably taken
its name from the Parisi, an ancient
Celtic tribe on the banks of the Seine.
At question-time one of the boys was
asked how he’d refer to the inhabitants
of the gay French capital, and came up
with “Parasites.” As 1 recalled expensive
days (and nights) on Montmartre, I
didn’t think he was so far out.
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦♦♦
“0.G.”: The woman at the upstairs-
window was talking about a judge
advising wives to nag their husbands out
of driving while under the influence of
liquor. “Well,” said the girl-next-door,
“my boy-friend says that if women
would only stop their nag-nag-nagging
there wouldn’t be nearly so many of
them getting the widow's pension.”
“Ceg”: In England sovereigns (B.
30/3/’6O) are still being minted. The
89th annual report of the Deputy-Master
and Comptroller of the Royal Mint,
London, states that 8.7 million were
struck in 1958 to meet demands abroad
where respect for sovereigns, and an
inadequate supply, had given rise to
competent counterfeiting. This was the
fifth and largest minting since 1917 ; the
others were primarily in order to keep
alive in the Royal Mint the craft of
making gold coins. “Sovereign” received
its name in the reign of Henry VIII.
In the days of Henry I there was a gold
coin called a sovereign, the value of a
24th-part of lib. of gold.
« * *
“Curie”: The things ever - loving
parents say to their children! My mild
mother always threatened her fighting
brood that she would knock us into the
middle of next week. I shout at my
"It’s the left bicuspid in the second row ."
brawlers that “I'll flog you till you can’t
stand,” or, “I'll belt the living daylights
out of you.” Friend’s husband (friend
is too placid) bellows at his children that
he’ll “beat them to a pulp.” Fortunately
our barks are worse than our bites.
■lj4 4*4
“Jock”: By what logic has the Aus-
tralian Women’s Bowling Association
arrived at a rule /that, when playing in
competitions, its members must wear
hats? Men suffer no such disability.
The incongruity was emphasised in
Sydney when Roselands Bowling Club
held its first mixed-pairs tournament.
Almost a gale was blowing, and while
the men hid grins behind their hands,
the women were hard-put to it to keep
their ice-cream hats on. The gusts must
have affected their play and blown them
off-balance. Some men hid their locks,
or lack of them, under white berets, but
even that was against the regulations.
❖ * ❖
“Sunray”: I wonder if the little things'
that the continuity-boss overlooks worry
other picture-goers as much as they do
me. A woman comes home with the
shopping, dumps parcels and purse on
the couch, has a row with her husband,
decides to leave home, stamps upstairs
to pack her bag; and then you hear
the front door bang. I kept expecting
her to come back for her handbag, but
did she? No! What woman would go
without her portable pocket? In “On
the Beach,” with petrol just about non-
existent, they were still using cigarette-
lighters ; and in another scene someone
switched-off a light though the switch was
in the off-position to start with—maybe
it was put in by the same amateur elec-
trician who put in our bedroom switch,
which always tricks the visitors.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Barkis”: When Mum heard her eight-
year-old’s bike slither to a stop outside
she went to collect the steak she had sent
him for. “I had a bit of an accident in
the gravel,” he told her. “I lost the paper,
but I saved the meat. I made sure it
didn’t come off again, too!” Draped on
the rear rack was the night’s dinner, ends
flopping over either side, but the middle
held firm with the rack-clamp. Mum
wavered between hygiene and economy,
and finally took it inside to do what she
could with, cold water and tweezers. The
meal was not a success, though. Have
you ever tried eating vegetables with
peanut-toffee?
♦♦♦ < *x*
“D.P.”: Boys of Brisbane Boys’ Col-
lege, one of Queensland's Great Public
Schools, who lost the straw hat (B.
20/4/’6O) during the war, overwhelm-
ingly voted for its return, and now look
every bit as charming as Maurice
Chevalier or debonair Fred Astaire or
“Mammy” A 1 Jolson. Boys at other
Great Public Schools here petitioned
their heads for boaters as the schools’
official headgear. The old felt hat gets
a bashing from the secondary schoolboy
and has its limitations for wearing-angles,
being without the chinstrap which en-
ables the soldier to wear it with the side
turned up on the side of his head. There
is a sort of respect the straw hat gathers
with age, and its wearers can easily be
identified as Ist year to 4th year on
sight. At the Head-of-the-River Regatta
it is the hat for the occasion.


POLITICAL POINTS
Now they’ve reached the Summit every-
thing depends on whether Khrush-
chev blows his top.
• •
Heffron’s Cabinet continues in its usual
state of jolly discord. Defying Cabinet,
Billy Sheahan, Minister for Health, voted
in caucus against the granting of a 99-
year lease of the Plaza Hotel and the
disused Wynyard tram-tunnel. Entick-
nap, father of the proposal, called him a
“squib.”. Gus Kelly roared with rage
and Premier Heffron reminded him sig-
nificantly that he was —as yet —a member
of Cabinet. Macquarie Street needs a
scoreboard to record Cabinet disagree-
ments.
• •
If Khrushchev allows the spy-plane
incident to wreck the Summit talks it
will be only because he never intended
them to succeed. On his own showing
he has long been aware that such flights
were taking place, yet he didn’t consider
that any reason for not seeking a con-
ference or for not visiting America. The
claimed shooting-down of the U-2 and the
capture of its pilot have not altered
realities at all except to confirm some-
thing he says he already knew.
Bluster and threats are part and parcel
of K.’s technique, and he has had a
whale of a time in the past week. But
if he follows this line at the conference
he will be showing (1) that he is willing
to allow a chance incident to jeopardize
world peace, or (2) that the shooting was
no lucky fluke but was deliberately timed
to wreck the talks.
• •
After listening to former - Speaker
Makin and his fellow South Australians
supporting the bill to give S. Australia
special assistance in a grant of £1,027,000
and at the same time proving how un-
worthy the Playford Government was
to be allowed to spend the grant, the
Army Minister could have had no doubt
about where his jungle commandos are
coming from in the next war. Any of
the Labor speakers on that occasion
could undoubtedly climb a greasy
lawyer-vine upside down, bayonet in
mouth.
• •
Senator McManus, who gave an adroit
performance on Melbourne Channel 7’s
“Meet the Press,” neatly evaded a direct
answer to the question whether the
D.L.P. would be any more willing to
make a deal with the A.L.P. under
Calwell than it was when Evatt was boss.
It wasn’t a question of a deal, he said.
The D.L.P. wasn’t prepared to accept a
kiss of death for its principles, and he
went on to rub-in the compromising
record of the Vic. A.L.P. on unity-tickets.
This is a real worry for Calwell, who
is trying to get himself elected to the
Victorian executive in the hope of
making the A.L.P. Federal Conference
ruling against unity-tickets stick in Vic-
toria as elsewhere. Unless this happens,
the D.L.P. has a powerful weapon on
its side and can set a stiff price on
reconciliation. The Latrobe by-election
showed once more that the D.L.P. can’t
win a Reps. seat. But it can get a big
enough vote to torpedo some A.L.P.
candidates.
• • ~
"Cddie Ward was given the job of
running the Labor side of the debate
on the phone-tapping bill. If Don Whit-
ington is right it couldn’t have been in
more appropriate hands ; in The House
Will Divide Whitington wrote, “Nor was
it ever disclosed that Ward had the
best private intelligence - system in the
Parliament, including a means of
listening-in to many official telephone
conversations.”
• •
It has been suggested that the Prime
Ministers’ Conference may oust South
Africa from the Commonwealth over the
apartheid issue if it becomes a republic.
It has already accepted Nkrumah’s
Ghana, which is as racially discrimina-
tory as anybody and which has decided
to become a republic on July 1 on the
basis of a remarkable vote obtained with
police-bludgeons and whippings for
opponents. The Opposition alleges that
in the Ashanti district toured by
Edusai, one of Nkrumah’s strong-arm
Ministers who went to the length of beat-
ing-up Opposition-leaders, Nkrumah got
22,000 votes for President. Ashanti had
never before polled more than 7000 votes
altogether.
• •
Within the next month the Heffron
Government will face its real test on the
Legislative Council. The resolution,
gagged through by the Government after
the bill had been twice refused by the
council, provides for a referendum within
two months. Ahead lies a hard road
which passes through the law-courts and
a lot of tortuous byroads within the
Labor party.
The legal challenge has already begun.
A group of Opposition M-L.C.’s, Country-
party veteran Mick Bruxner and Liberal
M.H.R. Armand Bland have sought a
Supreme Court injunction preventing the
holding of the referendum. Hearing of
the application has been postponed until
May 30. Meantime, most of the sitting
Labor Honorables are quietly busy blunt-
ing the hara-kiri knife that has been
handed to them.
Now I'll tell you the one about the salesman and the farmer's daughter—
originally told by a Russian named Kovsky."


T eading the Federal Labor party at
the present time must rather be like
trying to drive a car without a steering-
wheel. When caucus discussed the
phone-tapping bill three of the four
leaders, Calwell, Whitlam and McKenna,
favored amending it. Ward, Haylen and
Pollard, all of whom were defeated in
the leadership stakes only a few weeks
ago, plumped for straight-out opposition,
and when it came to a vote the majority
of caucus members supported them and
rejected the advice of their elected
leaders. Final touch—the motion for
complete opposition was moved by J. R.
Fraser, member for the Capital Terri-
tory, who won’t have a vote when the
bill is put to Parliament.
• •
Heffron is playing cagey over rumors
of impending amalgamations of city
municipalities; but there’s little doubt
that something like the old 1947 plan
is in the air again. Pat Morton asked
the Premier for a promise that a referen-
dum would precede any amalgamations,
but the wily Bob affected ignorance of
any moves. At one time there was a
clause in the Local Government Act
making such plebiscites obligatory. This
was a democratic provision, but it stood
in the way of Labor's plans, so out it
went.
• •
Senator John Kennedy defeated Sena-
tor Humphrey in the depressed State of
West Virginia in the primary poll for
Democratic nominee for the Presidency.
But it’s a far cry still to a final choice.
Senator Lyndon Johnson, of Texas, and
Adlai Stevenson, Democratic candidate
in 1952 and 1956, have still to enter the
race, and they are both mighty muscular
runners —especially against a Catholic
candidate.
• •
Every election sees some sitting mem-
ber defeated, but in the Queensland poll
on May 28 at least four will lose their
seats no matter how the voting goes. This
is because in four electorates sitting mem-
bers are opposing each other consequent
upon the disappearance of numerous
seats under the redistribution of boun-
daries. In Aubigny Country-party
member W. B. Sparkes will be opposed
by L. F. Diplock (Q.L.P.), formerly
M.L.A. for Condamine. T. A. Foley
(Q.L.P.), whose Belyandro seat has been
abolished, is tackling E. W. Davis
(A.L.P.) in Barcoo, while C. G. McCathie
(Q.L.P.), having had Haughton shot from
under him, is trying his luck in Burde-
kin, held by A. Coburn (Ind.). In all
three seats there will also be other can-
didates seeking to topple both M.L.A.s.
Most interesting of all such contests will
be in Rockhampton South, where J.
Clark (A.L.P.), M.L.A. for Fitzroy, and
H. .R. Gardner (Q.L.P.), M.L.A. for
Rockhampton, are fighting it out, with a
strong Liberal candidate, R. B. Pilbeam,
gunning for both of them.
THE ELECTORS RIGHT
JVTowadays a free and enlightened
elector of the State of N. S. Wales
is liable to a fine if he neglects to vote
at an election. More than that, he may
be fined if he fails to have his name pul
on the electoral roll. Sixty years ago,
when the State was a Colony, there were
no such penalties, and the right to vote
was still regarded as an honor and a
privilege Everyone over the age of 21
was entitled to have his name entered
on the electoral roll, with the exception
of permanent members of the naval and
military forces; the Inspector-General
or Superintendent of Police and members
of the Police Force ; and “persons of
unsound mind, or in the receipt of public
charity or criminally convicted.”
The elector’s responsibility did not end
with having his name entered on the
electoral roll; he had also to make sure
that he was in possession of an “Elector’s
Right.” This was a document issued by
the Electoral Registrar. It was a certi-
ficate “printed in red ink upon paper
specially prepared to prevent fraudulent
imitations, with butts, like cheques, in
•
The 8.8. C. television film of the Royal
wedding showed that this branch of the
Establishment in Britain has an earthy
sense of fun that can survive even in the
midst of a respectful recording of solem-
nity and glitter. The cameras switched
for a moment to a square, empty
except for a lone man on duty with a
broom and a cart —cleaning-up after the
Household Cavalry outside Westminster
Abbey. There was a fine touch of humor
and imagination in giving us this passing
flicker of the ordinary and humble before
the cameras returned to glass coaches
and glowing pageant.
• •
The death, at 51, of C. F. Wordsworth,
Country-party member for Mulgrave in
the Queensland Assembly, will mean
that there will be no poll in that elec-
torate on May 28, the day of the general
election. New nominations will be called
and a separate poll held later. Words-
worth had held the seat for only a year.
He won it at a by-election after the
death of R. H. Watson, a fellow-member
of the Country party.
accordance with a form shown in
Schedule A of the Act,” Timothy
Coghlan recorded in The Wealth and
Progress of New South Wales.
“Every person claiming the right to
vote must exhibit his Elector’s Right,
satisfying the Returning Officer that he
is the person on the roll who should
possess that right, and demand a ballot-
paper. He is then furnished with a
ballot-paper, containing the names of
the candidates, and -his Elector’s Right,
as well as the butt, is stamped to denote
that he has voted at that election.”
The Elector’s Right reproduced here
was issued in the Mudgee electorate in
1894 to Frederick William Smith, whose
son-in-law recently showed it to The
Bulletin. Endorsements show that it
was last produced for verification on
June 20, 1899. The document is of
special interest to The Bulletin, as at
the time it was issued, March 2, 1894,
John Haynes, co - founder, with J. F.
Archibald, of The Bulletin, was M.L.A.
for Mudgee.
• • ■
There’s a suggestion to name the new
inner - harbor at Port Kembla the
Matthew Flinders Basin in honor of the
navigator who, with Bass, discovered the
site and named it Tom Thumb Lagoon.
The name of Flinders is already liberally
sprinkled around the map of Australia.
There’s more than one way of honoring
a man’s memory. Surely in this case
it would be more appropriate to give the
basin the name Flinders gave the lagoon.
• •
T}ar from facing any threat of abolition,
* the Legislative Council in Victoria
is to be enlarged. The Bolte Govern-
ment is putting through legislation to
increase the number of electoral
provinces by two and the number of
members by four. As the Country party,
which supports Bolte when it chooses to,
has nothing to lose from this measure,
it seems sure to go through both Houses.
The two new seats will be in the metro-
politan area ; Bolte will be looking to
them to provide the reliable Upper
House majority he now lacks.


Personal
ITEMS
In a flight at Alice Springs gliding-
expert Bert Perr s o n achieved an
outstanding distance-record for the type
of machine he used when he flew 277
miles to De Rose Hill cattle-station in
S.A. in 5\ hours. Perrson piloted a
“Jumbuck” glider, designed in S.A. and
with a wing-span of 32ft., and secured
a “First Diamond” to his Gold Certifi-
cate. He claimed that he could have
travelled considerably further before
coming down, but wished to comply with
certain stipulations of the coveted
Diamond award.
• •
Off overseas to study developments in
coalmining techniques and equipment,
A. F. Perkins, Chief Inspector of Coal-
mines in N. S. Wales, will also investigate
recent British legislation on mine-sub-
sidence, a problem that has worried
N.S.W. mining and local - government
authorities, and as well he will look into
safety-work in pits. Perkins was the
youngest man to hold the post when he
became chief inspector three years ago ;
he was then a veteran of 37.
• •
Elected N.S.W. president of the Short-
horn Society of Australia, W. Lambell,
of Weenya Shorthorn Stud, Gulargam-
bone, was grounded at “Shore,” and after
a wool-classing course at East Sydney
Tech, jackerooed at G. D. Bassett’s
property in the central west. Weenya
was established in 1942 by his father,
Arthur Lambell, whose policy of buying
the best Shorthorn blood obtainable in
Scotland is being followed by his son. A
Weenya bull has been bought by cham-
pion jockey Neville Sellwood, who is
setting-up a Shorthorn stud near Cudal.
• •
“Jock”; Wallsend (N.S.W.) Methodists
had a dinner the other day to celebrate
the centenary of Methodism in the dist-
rict, and invited the Rev. A. G. Mane-
field, general superintendent of Methodist
Home Missions, as guest-speaker. A
Wallsend' “old boy”—he was born
there —Manefield said it would be a good
thing to bring into the fellowship of the
Church the lost half of the population
who, in the last census, were classified as
members. He added that only two men
from Wallsend had entered the Methodist
ministry in the first 100 years.
• •
Retiring because of illness, Caltex
g.-m. C. G. Holdaway served in the
R.A.N. in 1914-18 and later became a
master-mariner, before joining Caltex
(Australia) in 1927 and becoming a
director in 1951. He goes to the quiet
of his property, originally owned
by Robert Lowe, at Bringelly, near
Camden, still within easy range of Sydney.
Sketched here by one of his pupils in
the “art-squad,” the Rev. Father Francis
X. Brown, of Blackfriars College, Pros-
pect (S.A.), lately set out, accompanied
by C'apt. J. Maitland Thompson (Port
Adelaide harbormaster), leading a party
of secondary-school students from the
college on a 2000-mile trek into the far
west of South Australia. They are
making a “geographical, geological,
botanical, poetical and artistic” expedi-
tion to the Nullarbor Plain, with their
base-camp at the deserted Overland
PRIEST ON TREK
Telegraph station at, Eucla, on the
Westralian border.
Father Brown has led expeditions simi-
lar to this one for the last six years,
always making sure the places they
explore are not those the boys would
normally see in later life. “With all due
respect to Sydney and Melbourne,” he
says, “we think boys can wait until their
honeymoon to see them ; we have, in-
stead, visited such places as Lake Eyre,
the Birdsville Track and the Flinders
Ranges in S.A., Mootwingee in the West
Darling area of N.S.W., and Ayers Rock
and the Musgrave Ranges in the Terri-
tory.” It is, in fact, one of the most
important educational undertakings in
the Commonwealth.
The boys at present on trek are making
a film of their adventures, and some-
where out in the Nullarbor they’ll build
a cairn, with a plaque recording the
expedition.
“Maitri”: Veteran pianist Frank
Hutchens, who has been professor at
the N.S.W. State Conservatorium since
its foundation in 1915, has been awarded
the highest honor the Celtic people can
give. For “Services to Cornwall” he has
been created a bard by the Grand
Gorsedd the sixth person in this
country to be so honored. The first Aus-
tralian bards were the late Sir Langdon
Bonython (of the Adelaide “Advertiser”)
and Clement Hosking, of Sydney. Much
later the honor was conferred on Breffni
Hosking (also of Sydney), his singer-wife,
Thea Rowe, and on Oswald Pryor, of
Bulletin fame. As Hutchens’s mother
was a Hosking (her family has lived on
the same property at Lamorna, near
Penzance, for 600 years) four bards out
of the six have Hosking connections. In
Hutchens’s case the “Services* to Corn-
wall” include the many recitals he has
given in the Duchy and the original com-
positions he has written for Cornish
choirs.
• •
N. S. Wales Electricity Commission
engineer John Dembecki has come-up
with a device that can tell from a dis-
tance if an electrical conductor is alive
or dead. In a test at Nelson Bay, on
Port Stephens, his instrument, built into
a box measuring 4in. square, indicated
from a distance of 400yds. that a 132,000-
volt line was alive. John was born in
Poland in 1926; his B.E. degree was
earned at the University of N. S. Wales.
Two years ago he designed an electrical
brain, known as Silec, which determines
within two seconds the most economical
way to meet, at any given instant, the
demand for electricity throughout the
State.
• •
This year’s special award for the best
honey-pyramid display at Sydney Show
was won, for the second time in succes-
sion, by T. L. Purvis, of Dubbo
(N.S.W.), and his wife. Purvis was un-
placed in his first two years as a honey-
exhibitor at Dubbo Show 50 years ago,
but since then he has never been defeated.
This year at the Royal Easter the
Purvises used a honeycomb model of
Sydney Harbor Bridge for their display
As a schoolboy Purvis used to extract
honey from the schoolmaster’s hives,
and this gave him a liking for the job.
He put his first earnings (£l2) into a
dozen hives—they were cheap in those
days—and ever since he’s had the bees
working for him.
• •
“D.”: Picture in the daily press of
Australia’s High Commissioner in
London, Sir Eric Harrison, attending this
year’s Anzac Day ceremony at the Ceno-
taph took my mind back to 1945, when
Sir Eric (he was plain Eric then) was
Deputy-Leader of the Opposition in the Aus-
tralian Parliament. It was just after the
Japs had tossed in the towel; Australian troops
were engaged in “mopping-up operations,” and
many units considered that, in all the excite-
ment of the peace-declaration, they had been
forgotten. Among these were the Sixth Divvy’s
famous 16th Brigade, still stuck up at Wewak
(New Guinea) following their successes against


the Japs in that area. With the relaxation of
censorship-controls troops complained bitterly,
in letters to relatives and friends, of the lack
of food. Some of their tales seemed unbeliev-
able ; but how true they were was revealed
when my brother (2/Ist Bn.) sent me an original
copy of Routine Orders. This set-out that
personnel would parade twice daily for vitamin
tablets; there was only one meal-parade a day.
Armed with this indictment, I arranged an
interview with Eric Harrison. He was amazed
when shown the copy of R.O.s, and grabbed
every available phone on his desk —there were
several —to contact Sydney dailies. Result was
that the first editions of the afternoon papers
came out with photostat prints of the now-
historic order, together with a scathing comment
by Harrison. Later editions ran Army Minister
Frank Forde’s assurances that supplies would
be sent immediately to all troops. And they
were. But it was the quick, positive action of
Eric Harrison that galvanised officialdom into
action.
• •
Bulletin theatre - critic in Brisbane
since 1947 and a lecturer in aesthetics at
the University of Queensland, Val Vallis
(here pictured) was born at Gladstone
(Q.) in 1916 and educated at Gladstone
State School and Rockhampton High.
He was with the C.M.F. and A.I.F. from
1941 to 1946, with service up New
Guinea way, and while there, starting to
try his hand at verse. Poems from his
pen first appeared on the “Red Page” in
1943, and later won him a post-war
training-scholarship at the University of
Queensland, where he graduated with
first-class honors in philosophy and was
appointed to the Uni. staff in 1950.
In 1953 he won the University Founda-
tion Travelling Scholarship to London
Uniyprsity, graduating as a Ph.D. in
aesthetics. Since then he has undertaken
a number of lecture - tours, speaking
about Australian poetry for the Com-
monwealth Literary Fund, and last year
was co-editor with R. S. Byrnes of The
Queensland Centenary Anthology. A
collection of his poems was published by
Angus and Robertson in 1948, and as
well as his frequent appearances in The
Bulletin he has since had poems in
most Australian periodicals and in the
regular Angus and Robertson Australian
Poetry series.
POET ON PLATFORM
“Judee:” Lance Thomas; of Tambar
Vale, Tambar Springs (N.S.W.), lately
passed on, was renowned for his enthusi-
asm in agricultural experiments. His
property carried many innovations,
including an efficient water-harvesting
and irrigation scheme. He was usually
the first settler around Mudgee and
Coonabarabran to try new crops and
techniques, as well as modern farm
machinery.
• •
Manager of W. D. Scott and Co.'s new
development division, Hal Porter went
from Barker College, Hornsby (N.S.W.),
to Sydney University, graduating as
Bachelor of Engineering. He then put
in two years as R.A.A.F. (N.S.W.)
liaison-officer on radar development with
the C.S.LR.O. and Department of
Munitions, before changing to civvy
employment in such lines as ship-repair-
ing, light and medium manufacturing
and automotive equipment. Seven years
back he joined W. D. Scott and Co.-
international management consultants in
Sydney—and since then has concentrated
on management-control aspects of the
business. Now he will deal with the
application of computers and other forms
of electronic data-processing, conduct
area-surveys and advise on major
mergers and takeovers.
• •
Birthday - honors awarded by Queen
Juliana of the Netherlands included
appointment as officer in the Order of
Orange-Nassau of Rolf Eduard ten
Seldam, first Professor of Pathology in
the Westralian University’s medical-
school. Since graduating from Leyden
in 1932 Professor ten Seldam has been
mainly concerned with cancer-research.
After working as a pathologist in Dutch
hospitals he went to the Netherlands
East Indies as an officer in the Royal
N.E.I. Army Reserve and director of the
N.E.I. Cancer Institute at Bandoeng.
Interned by the Japs he scored a “men-
tion” for outstanding work in p.-0.-w.
camps in Java and Sumatra. From 1947
to 1952 he was Director of Pathology
in Roman Catholic hospitals at Eind-
hoven (Holland) and from 1954 to 1956
was reader and senior lecturer in
pathology at Sydney University, holding
as well executive - membership of the
N.S.W. Cancer Council and the
pathology-section secretaryship in the
N.S.W. branch of the B.M.A. He’s held
his Westralian appointment since 1957,
and now represents the-University on the
State’s Anti-Cancer Council.
• •
“A.L.D.”: One of the latest batch of
civil-engineering graduates at the Uni-
versity of N.S.W. was 30-year-old Dutch
migrant Theo ten Brummelaar, who
graduated with honors. Previously a
schoolteacher in the Netherlands, he
worked for several years with a Dutch
shipping-line in Singapore before coming
to Australia four years ago and here
deciding to study engineering, for which
a traineeship with the Department of
Main Roads helped to pay expenses,
while in his spare time he built a two-
room house for his family. Now he’s
setting his sights on a Master of Tech-
nology degree in highway-engineering.
No stranger in The Bulletin office—
he used to contribute joke-blocks a
couple of years ago—Denys Faithful (pic-
tured here) called in when he was in
Sydney on a spot of recreational leave
from New Guinea. He’s a patrol-officer
in the Department of Native Affairs,
P.O. ON PATROL
which he joined in 1951, as soon as he
left schooi in his home-town, Dunedin
(N.Z.).
His station is in the Nuku area, and
patrols take him into the interior, half-
way between the Sepik River and the
mountains. Maybe understating it a
bit, he describes these as, on the whole,
routine affairs, though there was a spot
of bother when poll-tax was introduced.
They didn’t care for that one,
• •
Into the Silence:
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 83, Sir Donald
McGavin, a surgeon who served his country
in two World Wars.
In Melbourne, at 91, Charles Donald, whose
successful rowing career, starting at Ballarat,
stretched from 1890 to 1914. Donald won
the Victorian sculling title three times. With
his brother James, who died 20 years ago,
Charles Donald also represented Victoria in
Australian championship-winning fours and
eights. Charles Donald went on coaching
until his seventies.
In Hobart, at 78, Archdeacon Magnus James
May. He served earlier as rector of several
of the Apple Isle’s country parishes and for
eight years as precentor of St. David’s Cathe-
dral, before becoming Archdeacon of
Launceston.
In Kalgoorlie, at 94, H. C. (“Harry”)
Randall, a goldfields identity of long standing,
associated with mining ventures at Kanowna,
Coolgardie (“The Old Camp”) and Kalgoorlie,
and later a partner in the jewellers’ firm,
Randall and Edwards.
In Launceston, at 80, Neil Campbell, farmer
and orchardist, and for 38 years in the
Tasmanian Parliament as M.H.A. for Wilmot
and M.L.C. for Tamar.


ABORIGINALITIES
“I'll have to take a rain-check on our date tonight."
T know the geographical centre of
-*■ Australia is Mt. Stuart, about 130
miles north of Alice Springs; as a
former Queenslander I know that its geo-
graphical heart is Blackall in the Central
West sheep-belt—in the grounds of
Blackall Public School is an official
plaque to that effect. But where is the'
centre of New South Wales? I put the
question to a mob of broadbrims in the
bar at Sydney Show. A character down
from Longreach twirled his grog:
“Reckon it’s as I’ve always thought,” he
drawled, “they’ve got no heart in New
South Wales.”—“Fair Cow.”
* %
“Amdee”: Here in N.Q. fireflies are
now at their best, as they either drift
slowly in the clear night air or speedily
dart about. With other insects a-wing
also, the bats mill around, feasting. Yet
I have never seen the greenish, vivid
glow of a firefly suddenly extinguished,
although its very brilliance must make the
firefly easy for any nocturnal predator.
Perhaps its light does evolve from
phosphorus—in spite of scientific doubts
about it —and the bat knows instinctively
that to dine on such an attraction would
be dangerous.
* * * *
“R.8.H.”: No need to trap any “old-
timer” to get the good oil on Tonks
rabbit-traps (B. 20/4/’6O). They are still
manufactured by Tonks, of Birmingham
(Eng.), and here in S.A. there must be
hundreds still in use. I used to import
them in 200-gallon square galvanised
tanks. There were two qualities: the
Star and Crescent was the lighter one,
the X. J. Tonks the heavyweight. Before
rabbit-traps were made in Australia the
X. J. Tonks was the aristocrat of all
makes, and, as a hardware-man, I still
get an odd inquiry for these traps. In
fact, even the English typist here knows
the name, and she’s certainly no “old-
timer.”
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: Russians are reported to be
working on a tractor that will work with
farm-implements at 25 m.p.h. What
farm-operations they intend to do at
25 m.p.h. weren’t stated. Speed is hardly
our worry in Australia, where an
Australian-built tractor is capable of
30 m.p.h. and can work a boom-spray
or a broadcaster at that speed. These
are about the only operations that the
Russians will do at that speed. Hay-
raking is a fast operation—at 9 m.p.h.—
and few other jobs can be done at over
6 m.p.h. The trend here is for a lower
speed and a bigger implement. One
fellow in Queensland built himself a
62ft. plough and pulls it with a crawler-
tractor. It’s not the time it takes to
get around the paddock that’s important,
but the time to get over the paddock.
Still, I want to hear more about this jet-
propelled tractor ; perhaps they intend
to cultivate the moon with it.
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: Polynesian dancing can be
very exciting when the performers stop
worrying about their European audience.
The discussion at the morning tea-party
turned to their last performance. “Their
dancing became pretty uninhibited,”
said one. “Yes,” said another; “every
now and then a couple left the dance.”
“Why?” asked one naive, not-so-young
matron.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: “Laetitia’s” baby-frogman
(B. 13/4/’6O) could hardly have been
gill-breathing. The embryo's “gills,”
which appear at the junction of neck
and shoulder, normally disappear long
before birth, even when this is premature,
and apparently are a now-useless sur-
vival from an earlier stage of evolution.
But very young children, when sleeping
soundly, consume very little oxygen —
hence the slow, shallow breathing that
often causes the inexperienced parent
to wake Baby to make sure he’s still
alive. This seems the most likely ex-
planation in the case described by “L.”
—that the baby's inhalations were too
feeble and infrequent to carry water to
his lungs, and the rate of consumption
of oxygen so slow he hadn’t time to
become distressed. The story reminds
me of a textbook statement that the
newly-born infant, if placed in water,
THE MARE
There on the breast of the hill is an
artist’s work,
A blend of vision and fidelity,
A modelled mare, sprung from a crafts-
man’s hand
Who loves both art and subject equally.
See the head’s proud elegance, the eye
So round and full and huge with fire, the
fragile line
The delicate nostrils take ; most certainly
A joy in execution and design.
How sure the hand that fondled clay, to
make
The slender bone, the mobile curve of
neck,
The stranded roughness of the windy
mane,
And pinched the near-translucent ears to
prick ;
With one excited flourish of the thumb
Swept down the gullet - groove, then
smoothed the chest
And belly and flank and gentle muzzle,
to silk,
Laid tail to flank, and firmed the wither
and crest.
And see the individual signature,
The final charm, the thumb-prints pressed
like dapples,
Freckled across the flank and over the
rump,
Patted as smooth and round and plump
as an apple.
And this, the last good measure of his
taste,
To leave this plinth of summer round
her hooves,
The brittle grass, the brilliant sky be-
hind —
But look ! Oh most miraculous she
moves!
N.s.w.
ANNE BELL.




will swim with an eel-like action —
whether above or below surface is not
stated, and I've never been game to try
the experiment. But I have known
children of nearly - amphibious parents
who could keep themselves afloat for
some seconds from the age of five
months upward—though their action was
not eel-like, but similar to that of a baby
first attempting to crawl.
* * * *
“Toot”: Mareeba Council in N.Q.
gave their children’s playground an
obsolete railway-engine, the delight of
all small-fry. Little did they think that
the children would be in danger from it,
until they found they had stoked it up
and got a good fire going in it: “We
were only trying to get up enough steam
to make it whistle! ”
* * * *
“Churinga”': “The King of the Coral
Sea” was filmed on Thursday Island, so
when it was shown on the screen the open-
air theatre was reasonably quiet until a
man dipped a mug into the water between
the mangroves and then went to drink it.
“Hey! Don’t drink that! It’s salt-water,”
shrieked almost every kid in the audience.
They knew the very place on the beach
where the picture was taken, and found it
hard to understand that a grown man
wouldn’t know it was sea-water!
* * * #
“R.A.M.”: There really is a Woop
Woop Road; it’s in the Chapman
Valley area, to the north-east of Gerald-
ton (W.A.).
* * * *
“Banana”: For houses on stilts
(B. 20/ 4/ ’6O) Brisbane isn’t the whole of
Queensland. I lived there a couple of
years and couldn’t see much justification
for them, but the other 40-odd years
I’ve lived in the high-rainfall and tropical
heat of the north-coastal region, and
Heaven preserve me from the miseries of
a low house. The additional cost of high
blocks and long flights of stairs is offset
a thousand times by the additional area
gained. Cemented, you’ve got laundry-
and car-space. Where do you dry the
washing, if your house is on low blocks?
Under the neighbors’ house, hauling it
across the fence during weeks and weeks
of teeming rain. The kids can play under
the house, to get them from underfoot;
it’s a hot-weather lounge or sleepout
and, with the floor hosed down a couple
of times a day, an oasis in the sweltering
heat. As for high blocks tending to
wobble houses, that’s utterly false. And,
high or low, if they’re wood, you’ve got a
renewal bill anyhow, after a few years.
All finger-pointers should be sentenced
to eight months, November to June, in
a house on low blocks in the fair town of
Tully.
* * * *
“Yakipan”: Before the coconuts stop
falling (B. 13/4/’6O), I remember that
shortly before the Japanese invasion of
Malaya a Chinese amah in Singapore,
playing with her European charge under
a coconut-tree, was killed when a large
nut fell on her head. Whilst p.-0.-w.
in Changi I just missed being crowned
by a falling durian, the large, evil-
smelling but delightful-tasting fruit much
prized for its supposed effect on potency.
I don’t know if it would have smashed
my skull, but the spikes projecting from
the hard rind might have been very
painful. I was having an attack of
“Speedo Benjo” at the time, so couldn't
stop to pick the fruit up then. “Speedo”
needs no translation, whilst “Benjo” is
Japanese for “Toilet”; the two together
making dysentry which waits for no
man. On my return, the durian was still
there, so I collected it. Once one had got
used to the dirty-gaspipe and onion-
breath smell, the fruit was much sought
after by the troops to liven the insipid
diet of rice. We weren’t interested in
its aphrodisiacal properties in Changi.
* # * *
“Heresone”: Around Biddeston (Q.)
during the last few years there has been
a striking increase in the numbers of
“Dated 1687 and found in an attic, it could be a valuable Old Master."
hairy caterpillars. Some trees have died
under their attacks ; many more appear
to be doomed. Cuckoos, the chief natural
enemies of the grubs, are now very
scarce, probably because all the small
birds on which they impose their eggs—
wagtails, wood-swallows, miners,, wrens,
robins, sittellas, honeyeaters and the rest
—are also fading away. The ecology
of these species seems to require large
areas of natural bushland; they are
seldom seen in the odd trees left for
shade on cleared land, or even in small
clumps of timber. But even in the larger
areas of forest they are not nearly as
plentiful as they used to be. Possibly
the introduced starling is crowding them
out; or cats “gone bush” may be the
trouble. Investigation seems to be
warranted, as not only are the birds
themselves worth preserving but if
nothing is done the hairy caterpillars
may destroy what trees the firestick and
bulldozer have spared.
* * * *
“Barwon”: Rhode Island Reds were
then a novelty breed, and Mum had paid
the then-colossal figure of five-guineas
for a rooster that had won a ribbon.
The champ, looked a little peaked after
his journey, and with the most humane
of intentions my young brother and I
sneaked out the square-bottled Thorne’s
whisky—kept for the refreshment of
visiting v.-i.-p.s—and surreptitiously
poured a stiff spoonful into him, neat.
The result had to be seen to be believed.
The bird leapt into the air, uttering
hoarse challenges to all other spurred
enemies, became momentarily airborne,
but failed to let down his undercarriage
at the conclusion of the flight, then zig-
zagged his way across to the run. By
bouncing alternately off his beak and
parson’s-nose he got part of the way,
then lay down with comb drooping over
visible eye and went to sleep. When he
began to.emit a bubbling kind of snore
we became conscience - stricken and
abandoned him. Later our unsuspecting
mother, fearing the loss of her bird and
the five-gns., administered first-aid, but
made the cardinal error of giving him
water. That started the racket all over
again, but at that stage she smelt his
breath and woke-up. We just beat her,
in a photo-finish, to the sanctuary of the
scrub behind the house.


"Cor the first time in Australian history
that backbone of the building-trade,
the foreman, has been given due credit
on a foundation-stone or, in the
modern euphemism, dedication - panel.
The idea was brought back from England
by N.S.W. Master Builders’ Association
president S. O. Edwards, who, visiting
the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre at
Stratford - on - Avon, observed that
notables mentioned on the foundation-
stone there included the job-foreman.
The first result can be seen on a wall-
panel in the fine building built as head-
quarters of the N.S.W. Master Builders’
Association in Newtown (Sydney).—
“H.C.8.”
* * * *
“Jeyles”: The young executive with
new compact Continental car was a
self-starting bore on the subject of its
incredible petrol-economy, all recorded
to two places of decimals in the podket-
book. Suffering confreres, with co-
operation of the company's parking-lot
caretaker, planned counter-irritant action.
Contributed bottles of petrol were
dribbled into his tank at prudent times
after his morning arrival and lunch-time
return, with discretion enough to avoid
any petrol-gauge disclosure. His ver-
bose enthusiasm rose with the falling
consumption, and he reasonably should
have doubted his arithmetic or speedo
when his automobile was handsomely
outperforming the lightest type of lawn-
mower. At this point the plotters con-
sidered building him up to the whimsical
zenith of no gallons per car-miles, but
decided instead to go into reverse with
petrol-subtraction. He grew furrow-
browed and uncommunicative by the
time the car was confounding him with
nine m.p.g., but one afternoon his wife,
after some city-shopping, briskly strode
into the parking-lot at 4.30 to rest her
spike-heels and await hubby’s knock-off.
She caught a milking-in-the-act, and the
game was up.
* * * *
“Dileabach”: The boss bought some
iron and left it lying about for six months
before he got around to putting it up on
the hay. During that time the trucks
coming into the feed-shed had been
running over it. When we put it on the
hay he said, “Be careful how you 'Walk
on that iron, or you’ll dent it and it’ll
leak.”
* * * *
“O-Twit”: Usually neighboring
farmers work together on a community
basis, but there are instances where this
doesn’t happen. One farmer I know has
the ability to combat rising costs and
keep overhead expenses down by using
junk to make attachments for his
machinery. One neighbor is invariably
impressed by this, or any other innova-
tion in the district, and immediately digs
deeper into the red and buys new, bigger
and brighter attachments. His land
adjoins a township and he periodically
subdivides and sells building-blocks to
avoid financial embarrassment. Another
has always thought of the same idea,
but with variations to give more efficiency,
and is going to build one himself, but
never does. He continues to borrow.
sound support for the Aboite
■*" who recently suggested that a folk-
song has to be something more than a
batch of verses of jolly jingle tacked
onto any kind of tune. Conclusions
arrived at by musicians who’ve made a
specialised study of the subject are in
harmony with definitions set-out by
organisations such as the International
Folk Music Council (Unesco) and the
English Folk Dance and Song Society.
Folk-music, as its name suggests, is
“If you Were MY hoy I'd teach you something !”
music which originated among peasants,
nomadic tribes and the like. It has no
known composers, and differs from
“composed" music insofar as it was
brought into being with no thought of
performance before concert-audiences.
Most authorities agree that folksongs
were first created as an accompaniment
to labor when all work was manual and
the tasks were usually long, arduous and
monotonous. In making-up tunes to the
rhythm of the task they were engaged
in, and singing them as they worked,
folk frequently forgot the job was un-
interesting. Thus folksong needs no
accompaniment, being itself an accom-
paniment. There are thousands of songs
in folk-literature available today which
once acted as accompaniments to almost
every conceivable form of toil.
The question arises, how is it possible
(failing clairvoyant gifts) to determine
that a song, centuries-old, originated
among a certain race? In fact, it isn’t
always possible. Nevertheless the origin
of a folksong can be often established
by the application of another finding-
that the folksong has definite musical
characteristics peculiar to the race from
which it originated.
T£ r iTu f 1,
If, for example I hear a folksong
sung in the Myxolydian mode (which
,s our common major-scale, but with the
seventh note flattened) I can be reason-
ably sure it originated in the Scottish
Hebrides. But there are simpler methods
by which the layman may determine
origins. Let him glance through any
volume of Irish folk-melodies and see
how many of the songs have the same
note repeated at the end ; sometimes
it is repeated three, four or even five
times. Songs like the well-known “Rich
and Rare Were the Gems She Wore”
and “The Snowy-breasted Pearl” are
good examples. I instance Irish folk-
music because some of its characteristics
are less involved than those of some
other races ; but my point is that the
folksongs of all nations have their own
special character—a special feature of
Irish folksong, then, is the repetition of
notes at the end of the tune,
Permanence is an important outcome
of folk-music. Like all the great works
of art, genuine folksongs contain within
themselves something essentially good
(or solid) which keeps them alive through
centuries. As Dr. Clement Harris has
stated, “Folk music.... appeals to the
deep and constant elements in human
nature sufficiently to make it permanent
in its hold.” It is "popular music, but,
unlike that of pantomime, revue, talkie
a °d such, it lasts, just as the works of
Raphael, Shakspeare and Bach have
endured.
The folksong must be simple enough
*° be sun * by the average person of
‘he race from which it springs Most
Enghshmen should be able to sing
E ?f ls . h fol^° n 8 s and m 2 st ‘ a ' lans thosa
of Italy, yet the average Enghshman need
no ‘ be ex P ected “ a Elnnl . sh son *
o R n “f " d
. V“ , M y .X-i stressea
*" a letter to me, There is nothing more
fundamentally national than folksong.
I have not touched upon the fasCinat-
, materia i f the v^ses attached 1o
fo f k but would that in folk .
musjc t s he ’ mne - s the thing .
CLEMENT HOSKING.


There’s richer enjoyment in every glass
★
= m
IEANDI
&RAND*
Australia’s
Better Brandy
STAGHGS
Pot-still BRANDY-
There’s no drink at once so stimulating ... so
relaxing ... so cheering at ail times as good
Australian brandy. And no brandy offers you
richer, more satisfying enjoyment than St. Agnes.
All the skill and experience of careful wine mak-
ing, distilling and blending are combined in the
perfection of St. Agnes Brandy . . . winning for St. Agnes a
distinguished reputation for quality, both in Australia and the
world over! ,
Enjoy the
Better Brandy
siAGnes
BRANDY
Old Liqueur
or Three Star
ANGOVE’S LTD. of RENMARK, S.A. • WINEMAKERS A DISTILLERS
ASK ALSO FOR ANGOVE'S WINE
Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE TWO "HERALDS"
With Herald and Weekly
Times (Melbourne) ss.
ord. shares at 435. the empire
ruled by John Williams is
valued by the sharemarket at
£33 million.
In Sydney, with the four-
million John Fairfax £1 ords.
priced at £5 15s. on the share-
market, that group of news-
papers, periodicals, radio and
TV is valued at £23 million.
Which, has the bigger
potential for investors?
Herald and Weekly Times
has the only evening-paper, the
“Herald,” in Melbourne, and
also owns the tabloid “Sun-
Pictorial.” These two have the
largest daily-paper sales in the
Commonwealth. The “Herald”
is priced at only threepence, as
against fivepence for Sydney
dailies. The “Sun-Pic” and its
competitor, “The Age,” are
priced at fourpence.
Melbourne “Herald” also
has a large interest in the Bris-
bane dailies and in the
Adelaide “Advertiser,” as
well as TV connections in
those cities. It is also the
largest shareholder in Aus-
tralian Newsprint Mills, Ltd.
It has an 85 p.c. interest in one
of the two Melbourne com-
mercial TV-stations, There are
no Sunday-papers in Mel-
bourne ; there is little profit in
Sydney’s Sunday press.
John Fairfax, Ltd., in Syd-
ney controls the “Sydney
Morning Herald” and the
afternoon-paper, “The Sun,” as
well as the “Sun-Herald,” a
Sunday paper. It owns
“Woman’s Day,” the “Finan-
cial Review,” “Fix,” “People”
and some other periodicals. It
has radio interests and a half-
share in a Sydney commercial
TV-station. It has interests
in Brisbane TV and in Austra-
lian Newsprint Mills, Ltd.
Although John Fairfax
financed the purchase of Ezra
Norton’s shares in Mirror
Newspapers, it contends that
the daily and Sunday “Mirrors”
are independent of the Fairfax
group.
Fairfax publications have
more competition to meet than
" the Melbourne papers have.
Packer’s Consolidated Press
never lets-up. However, it has
been found possible to charge
fivepence for dailies in Sydney
and to raise advertising-rates
to new high levels.
The Melbourne “Herald”
group, with its lower charges
and wider interests,, does not
seem overpriced in the share-
market by comparison with
Fairfax shares, which have
recently been stimulated by a
bonus-issue, a higher div. and
the prospect of a share-split.
Melbourne “Herald” had a
bonus-issue last year.
Aftermath of Takeovers
The statement by Leslie J.
Hooker, following the
signing of the deal with
William L. Buckland which
brought Victoria Downs
(N.TJ station into the Hooker
empire, that when present
share-options are exercised
capital of the Hooker organ-
isation will be such that a
20 p.c. dividend will call for
£1,040,000 p.a., should impress
rather sharply on the mind of
the investor the implications
of some of the takeover activi-
ties going on in Australia
today.
The total paid-up capital of
L. J: Hooker Investment Cor-
poration at June 30, 1959, was
less than what a 20 p.c. divi-
dend will call for in 1968,
assuming that there are no
more capital-issues than are
contemplated at this particular
moment.
It is unlikely that all the
activities at present being
undertaken by Hookers will
, pay-off as handsomely, in
relation to capital employed,
as the estate-agency and sub-
division business which has
been the basis of operations
to date. Large city hotels, big
office-blocks, motels and other
enterprises may need a high
gearing of cheap loan-money
in order to lift the yield on
ord. capital/into the 32 p.c.
realms now inhabited by
Hookers.
If all the projected construc-
tion activity in Sydney comes
to pass —new world-standard
hotels, new Rockefeller
Centres, plus the rebuilding
operations of such giants as
the A.M.P. —the position is
likely to arise within a few
years where there will be, for
a period, ample office and
hotel accommodation, with
corresponding price-competi-
tion, and a recession in specu-
lative zest.
The whole prospect is one
which deserves some serious
thought, not only in the case
of Hookers but with regard
to other expansive corpora-
tions as well.
Sydney Wool Futures
TTVealing on the Sydney
Greasy Wool Futures
Exchange began in Sydney on
May 11, after a formal open-
ing by R. J. Webster, chairman
of Felt and Textiles, the biggest
wool-processors in Australia.
Mr. Webster stressed that
dealing in commodity futures
was essentially “hedging” by
industry against price-fluctua-
tions in raw materials, not
gambling, though gambling
might occasionally enter into
it. He added that banks would
lend much more money on a
deal protected by a futures
contract than on one not so
protected. At the same time
he emphasised that it was the
aim of futures markets to com-
plete a selling transaction by
buying another contract, not
by delivering the raw material,
though delivery of the specified
wool in the quantity nominated
is the basis of a wool-futures
contract.
Dealing in wool futures is
meant to be a form of insu-
rance against price-fluctuation,
and not forward selling or buy-
ing.
The Sydney Greasy Wool
Futures Exchange, Ltd., has its
headquarters in 16 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, and starts-off
with 15 floor-members. Most
of the spadework in establish-
ing the exchange was carried
out by Clive Hall, but Develop-
ment Finance Corporation have
now given the scheme their
backing and blessing.
R. Fowler, Ltd.
'T'here is a boom in the shares
of most of the newcomer
construction cos. on ’Change,
but a better bet than some of
these concerns, in the long-run,


lit*
....
Let A.N.Z. BANK make all your
travel arrangements
Their travel experts will be happy to attend to sea and air bookings,
accommodation, assist -you with tax arrangements, passport and visas
—in short, every detail of your trip. Travel abroad with the knowledge
that everything is handled reliably through A.N.Z. BANK.
Money for Travel
Whenever you travel, carry A.N.Z. Bank Travellers’ Cheques. Readily
encashable, they are the safe, convenient way of carrying money.
Travellers' Credits, which enable you to draw money at A.N.Z. Bank
branches and agents throughout the world, are also available, if desired.
A.N.Z. Bank Travel Service is available through every branch of-
A-N-Z
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS DANK LIMITED
ANZ536.2458R
would appear to be the £1
shares in R. Fowler, Ltd., a
manufacturer of vitreous china
and earthenware sanitary-fit-
tings ; toilet suites, basins and
pans; bathroom fittings and
floor-tiles ; household crockery
and hotel-ware ; porcelain insu-
lators and stoneware jars;
chemical and acid-resisting
stoneware; chemical and
laboratory pipes and fittings;
and stoneware pipes.
The business was established
in 1837; today the Fowler
Potteries at Marrickville
(Sydney) have three modern
tunnel-kilns and are erecting
a fourth which will have a
capacity twice that of any of
the three operating units. There
are branches in Brisbane,
Melbourne and Adelaide, and
representation in W.A.
The building-boom in
Sydney and Melbourne must
be giving a great fillip to
sales of the Fowler potteries.
The Chevron Hotel at Potts
Point alone will represent a
large order for bathroom vitre-
ous sanitary-ware as well as
floor-tiles ; and activity of this
kind, on a more scattered scale,
is going on throughout the
Commonwealth. The construc-
tion of motels, each room with
bath and toilet, should help
Fowler’s, too.
Relaxation of import-restric-
tions and the coming of Doul-
ton’s to Australia have meant
more competition in the sani-
tary-ware field, but Fowler’s
are well entrenched, with a high
reputation, and with a most
modern and efficient plant.
Ord. capital was slightly
more than doubled by a one-
for-two bonus-issue and a par
issue last year, but earning-
power, judged by tax-provisions,
is high enough to encourage
hopes of an early return to a
12| p.c. div. At present, on
a 10 p.c. basis, the shares' at
50s. yield 4 p.c. The scrip has
slipped back from a recent
“high” of 565.
Pacific Island Mines
TAevelopment of the Misima
Island (Papua) gold pros-
pect of Pacific Island Mines has
induced the board to double
paid capital by offering 4459
£5 shares at par to present
shareholders.
“Promising gold-mineralisa-
tion” is indicated by drilling
and other operations, the
board says.
There are areas of intense
mineralisation on Misima,
some of which were worked
with success by Cuthbert’s New
Misima. Mining-engineer A.
G. Palmer has not confined
his attention to known work-
ings, but has been looking for
new lodes as well.
Pacific Island Mines repre-
sents an interesting goldmin-
ing spec, in capable hands.
The present £5 shares have been
selling around £ll.
“Mirror” Div.-cut
A cut from 4 p.c. to 3 p.c. in
the interim ord. dividend
of Mirror Newspapers, Ltd.
(formerly Truth and Sports-
man, Ltd.), won’t be happily
received by people who bought
“Mirror” shares in anticipation
of a complete takeover at the
time the Norton interests were
sold. Or by any of the Mirror
shareholders of long-standing,
for that matter.
Cost-increases beyond the
control of the management are
officially blamed for the div.-
cut.
Finance for the purchase
of the Norton shareholdings
was provided by the opposition
group, John Fairfax, Ltd., but
control of these shares was
vested in O’Connell Pty., Ltd.,
which the Fairfax group has
emphatically (and repeatedly)
proclaimed to be independent.
The Fairfax group is in
opposition to the Mirror group
in the evening-paper and the
Sunday-paper fields.
There are various unsatis-
factory features about the set-
up, but the chief one is, from
the investor’s point of view,
that a complete takeover of
“Mirror” (or “Truth” and


INVESTORS ' ! !
INVESTMENT
ADVISORY BUREAU
offers a
12 MONTHS’ SERVICE
• Keep informed on the latest Stock Exchange moves
by subscribing to our investment letter service.
• A.M.I. shareholders know of our amazing predic-
tions on these and other shares made last year.
• M.K.U. shareholders are still discussing our
predictions.
• These are but a few of the wonderfully accurate
forecasts subscribers have enjoyed from our service.
• Send £5/5/-, fill in the coupon below and receive a
FREE COPY of our May letter, plus our future
service, to: —
INVESTMENT ADVISORY BUREAU,
Suite 19, 377 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
NAME
ADDRESS
Phone
MULLENS & CO.
A. H. Urquhart, M. D. Passmore, K. W. A. Bridges, F. H. Mollkms
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK & SHAREBROKERS
16 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone
BWBI7I <3 lines) 88R327
Cables <fc Telegram*
"EMDECKL.KX Sydnev
“Sportsman’’) shares was not
arranged at the time of sale of
the Norton interests, when up
to 765. was paid on the market
for “Mirror” shares. Last sale
of “Mirror” ords. was at 70s.
Shortly before the cut in
the Mirror div.-rate was
announced, John Fairfax, Ltd.,
representing the opposition,
announced a one-for-four
bonus-issue, and a lift in the
div.-rate to 15 p.c. p.a. (from
a total of 13 p.c. in the pre-
ceding term).
Mauri Bros.
'lV'estle’s Holdings, Ltd., of
Nassau, has acquired the
interest of Mauri Brothers and
Thompson, Ltd., in the Crosse
and Blackwell cos. in Australia.
This excludes Mauri Bros.’
shareholding in Champion’s
Vinegar Co. (Australia) Pty.,
which will be jointly owned
in equal proportions by Mauri
Bros, and Nestle Alimentana
Co. (Ste An) of Switzerland.
Purchase consideration was not
disclosed.
The business sold to Nestle’s
represents Mauri’s interest in
the undertaking that developed
from the takeover of Raleigh
Preserving and L. G. Thorne
and Co. Pty. last year.
Nestle’s have come into the
picture following their takeover
of Crosse and Blackwell Hold-
ings, Ltd., in the U.K. earlier
this year.
A few months ago there were
rumors that Nestle’s might
make a bid for Mauri Bros,
itself, but the latest develop-
ment seems to rule that possi-
bility out.
Sale of the interest in Crosse
and Blackwell (Aust.) has been
followed by a slackening in
support for Mauri Bros, shares.
R. B; Davies
CJales in Melbourne and Syd-
ney of R. B. Davies In-
dustries £1 ords. at 28s.
have taken them to the highest
price for several years. Quota-
tions closed last week at 28s.
buyer, no seller.
After a promising public
flotation in 1950, the co. had a
disappointing run after the
death of R. B. Davies a few'
years later, and in 1957 the div.
dropped from 8 p.c. to 7 p.c.
Recently a 49 p.c. interest in
Yorkshire Fittings, a profitable
and expanding maker of capil-
lary copper tubing, was sold,
and R. B. Davies redeemed its
note-issue with the aid of the
proceeds.
If the business generally —
it is the largest manufacturer of
builders’ hardware in the Com-
monwealth —is resuming its for-
mer attractions as an invest-
ment the shares at 28s. would
give the immediate appealing
yield of 5.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis.
P. & 0.-Orient Lines
Tl}or the past 40 years the
-*■ P. & O. Company’s opera-
tions in Australia have been
controlled by Macdonald
Hamilton and Co. in all main-
land States except S.A., where
the P. & O. have been repre-
sented by Elder Smith’s. In
addition, Macdonald Hamil-
ton have acted in all main-
land States for the P. & O.
associates—the British India
S.N. Co., E. and A. Line and a
number of other cos. in the
P. & O. group.
Orient Line operations have
been controlled from Sydney,
with branch offices in each
mainland State.
Following acquisition by the
P. & O. Company of the
remaining Orient Line shares
not held by them, P. & O. is
now acquiring Macdonald
Hamilton & Co. Pty., previously
closely associated with the
Inchcape group of companies.
As from July 1 next a
single operating-co., known as
P. & 0.-Orient Lines of Aus-
tralia Pty., Ltd., will handle
all the business at present
carried on by Macdonald
Hamilton and by the Orient
Line.
P. & 0.-Otrient Lines of
Australia will maintain its own
offices in all mainland States
including South Australia, but
Elder Smith’s, as from July 1,
will combine the P. & O. agency
and the Orient Line in Ade-
laide, including the European
services of the 8.1.5. N. Co.
The chairman of P. & 0.-
Orient Lines will be N D.
Pixley, at present managing-
director of Macdonald Hamil-
ton, and the deputy-chairman
will be J. D. Bates, at present
general manager in Australia
of the Orient Line.
National Export Conven-
tion
HThe Australian National
Export Convention,
attended by more than 200
experts representative of the
business, industrial and rural
community, opened in Can-
berra on May 16.
The convention is being
organised by the Export De-
velopment Council, an ad-
visory body set-up by the
Commonwealth Government to
assist in determining export
policy.
Australia’s total export in-
come for 1959-60 is running
at about £950 million annually
—about £440 million less than
will be needed in five years’
time.
Capital-inflow has averaged
£l5O million in recent years,
but the Government feels it
would be foolish to rely on
these figures in the future.
Where, then, is the money
to come from?
Prospects in our traditional
markets, particularly for agri-
cultural foodstuffs, are not
encouraging, although exports
of basic raw materials can im-
prove overseas if economic
growth is maintained.
More of the job appears now
to be up to secondary industry.
Export development, it is
considered in Canberra, must
become a partnership between
the Government on the one
hand and primary and second-
ary industry on the other.
The Government plays its
part through economic and
fiscal policies designed to
encourage economic growth
and efficiency in production,
both primary and secondary,
and through scientific research
and overseas market-surveys.
Primary industry for years
has played its part as the
major contributor to Aus-
tralia’s export income and will
continue to do so in the future,
but inevitably to a lesser
degree.


THE
ORION INSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT AVIATION
N.S.W. BRANCH: 19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONES * BU 4387 L, F. THORPE, Manager.
A DISCRIMINATING HOST’S FIRST CHOICE
mtxmm
Vintage Wines
N S W. DISTRIBUTORS: CRAIG MOSTYN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
More Melbourne Opera
Any discussion of the two
concluding productions of the
Elizabethan Trust Opera Com-
pany’s current Melbourne
season (at the Palais) must
begin with the outstanding
feature—in the literal sense —
of each. In “Madame Butter-
fly” it was the singularly un-
hampered focus on the music;
in “The Magic Flute” it was
the extraordinary concentration
on production “effects” —in-
volving something like T 6
scene-changes, elaborate back-
drops, camera-projected images
of swirling skies, weird star-
constellations and what-have-
you, subtly shimmering gauze-
curtains of every kind and
color, and (for sheer comic
relief, as it turned out) a float-
ing cloud, with three genii
astride, which actually tricked
two critics (one later realised
his error) into thinking it was
some sort of fish and that the
scene was supposed to be tak-
ing place in the ocean’s depths.
When Joan Hammond began
rehearsals for “Madame But-
terfly” it was reported that
this was going to be a produc-
tion as faithful as possible to
the composer's original con-
ception. This has meant that
sets have been stripped down
to the bare essentials; that no
fireflies are seen spangling the
night sky; that the acting is
understated rather than the
popular reverse; and that gener-
ally the emphasis is on musical
sound rather than literal sense.
By comparison with “The
Magic Flute” production this
would seem a far sounder
approach to the problems of
opera-presentation; but surely,
between these two near-ex-
tremes, there lies a more satis-
.factory mean whereby the two
main forces of opera —music
and drama —might be harmoni-
ously reconciled and made
complementary; as, for in-
stance, they were in the open-
ing production of “Salome.”
Though Miss Hammond
never really succeeded in more
than suggesting the strange
complex of childish' optimism
and womanly fire that make-up
the character of Cio-Cio-San,
her gloriotis, large - ranging
voice atoned many times over
for any such defects.
As Pinkerton, Kenneth
Neate’s warm tenor came
through impressively, nowhere
more so than in the difficult
duets with Miss Hammond and
Neil Easton, whose finely
realised portrait of the Ameri-
can Consul was perhaps the
most convincing acting-per-
formance of the production.
Julia Malyort’s Suzuki was
equally satisfying from both
the musical and dramatic view-
points.
In the company’s perplexing
work in “The Magic Flute,”
Dr. Karl Rankl must be noted,
despite everything, for his feel-
ingful yet restrained control of
orchestra, singers and, particu-
larly, the various choruses. In
fact, it was the presentation of
the' choruses that afforded
Stefan Haag's production with
its more tasteful and relevant
moments.
Of the individual singers,
Neil Warren - Smith’s strong
bass was heard to good effect
as Sarastro; Glenda Raymond
produced by far her best work
of the current season with some
brilliantly controlled pinging in
the upper registers as the
Queen of the Night; Ronal
Jackson’s Papageno and Ken-
neth Neate’s Tamino were
never less, though never much
more, than adequate.
A.S.J.
[These productions, together with
the three reviewed in these pages
last week, will he repeated in the
company’s Sydney season, starting
next Saturday.]
♦t*
“The Magic Pudding”
Talking to puppeteer Peter
Scriven, creator of “The Tin-
tookies,” “Nex’ Town,” “Little
Feller Bindi,” etc., you get a
healthy impression that his next
show, an adaptation of Norman
Lindsay’s The Magic Pudding,
PETER SCRIVEN
will go smoothly and success-
fully from its opening in Bris-
bane early next month,
through its successive seasons
in the other capitals, and then,
perhaps, on to England and
the U.S. (on a recent visit to
England Scriven made tenta-
tive arrangements to start the
show there around Christmas-
time).
This tall, carelessly neat
young man might well feel con-
fident, for it is doubtful
whether any other puppet-show
has gone better equipped for
success into that uncertain
world on both sides of the cur-
tain. Behind the show are
Scriven’s own experience,
which by now has placed him
at the head of puppetry in this
country, presentation by the
Australian Elizabethan Theatre
Trust and the script of a book
whose appeal to children and
adults alike has been proved
through many reprintings. (It
is hard to realise, reading the
book now, that it was first
published as long ago as 1918.)
The script is something of
a joint effort. Scriven drafted
an adaptation according to
the demands of puppetry
(which, one gathers, are con-
siderable and full of tricks),
and Norman Lindsay de-
veloped some new dialogue out
of the narrative. The result,
one imagines, will mbve even
faster than the book—which in
some places is really travelling.
The book, of course, is rich
with memorable songs and
verses, and these must have
presented Hal Evans with
some excellent opportunities
in composing the music for the
show. Incidentally, Evans, an
Englishman who has been liv-
ing in Australia for some years,
wrote music for the BB.C.’s
old variety-show “Itma” and
for a number of films.
Songs, music and dialogue
will be recorded by Australian
artists and reproduced stereo-
phonically which process,
Scriven says, will achieve
maximum clarity in this depart-
ment.
The last time The Bulletin
called on Lindsay at Spring-
wood he was busy painting a
delightful series of portraits of
all the “Pudding'’ characters
in color—so that Scriven and
his designers could model the
puppets on them. These will
be exhibited in Brisbane and
later in Sydney, and there is
talk of incorporating them in
a new edition of the book.
The cast of 24 puppets, some
of them weighing around 201 b.,
will be manipulated by a com-
pany of five. This is said to
be the largest travelling puppet-
show in the English-speaking
world.
The stage - designs, also


Sir *£
r^yyy
mm
zm-y.
m.
m
m
WW
**>
m
w
SC
t v /
* i:
xvi smd
SBB7
NO^d
Discover the new thrill
of driving HOLDEN
There’s a brand new feel to Holden driving. Don’t just look at Holden and admire its
magnificent new styling drive Holden and discover for yourself all its thrilling new values.
More value in styling and comfort
From striking new full width radiator grille
to graceful new tail light assembly there are
exciting new lines to Holden. Inside
Holden, too, there’s new beauty.
When you drive Holden you’ll quickly
experience its new quietness, new comfort.
The luggage boot is roomier too.
More value in performance and
handling ease
The 6 cyl. Holden engine now gives 75
gross brake horsepower. Yet owners
report even better petrol economy. Driving
ease is improved by lighter brake and
clutch pedal pressures.
Discover Holden value yourself
Styling comfort, performance, handling
ease and low cost maintenance look at
Holden any way you wish . . . you'll quickly
see how much more value the new Holden
offers you at low first cost. Call on your
Holden Dealer today . . . drive Holden*
today, and thrill to all its wonderful new
values. Ask about the GMAC hire pur-
chase plan. *regd.
Australia 9 s Own Car
"PIP*" l
Australia’s finest value
SEE YOUR LOCAL HOLDEN DEALER TODAY
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Q 232
derived partly from Lindsay’s
illustrations, are by Wendy
Dickson, who will be remem-
bered for her haunting design
for the Trust’s production last
year of “Long Day’s Journey
Into Night.”
* ❖ *
“The Gazebo”
If you don't go foolishly
detecting on this comic mystery-
play by Australian expatriate
Alec / Coppel (Sydney Royal)
the reward will be a few hours’
tight-packed humor. For in-
stance, it is unlikely that, hav-
ing shot a man blackmailing
his wife, a TV mystery-writer
wouldn’t look at the victim’s
face before bundling him in the
shower-curtains whose design
distressed him and burying him
in the foundations of the new
gazebo (summer-house to you).
But granting that, you have
the joy of seeing the mystery-
writer told by the district attor-
ney that the blackmailer has
been found shot dead in his
own flat, and then of seeing the
mystery-writer ringing-up all
his friends to discover which
was the chance visitor he shot
and buried. Out of this is also
squeezed Mary Hosking’s mag-
nificent hysterical frenzy when,
as the maid-of-all-work, she
finds that her son, who was to
have calied on the great author
for a few wrinkles, hadn't got
home last night.
The piece is full of these little
bombs whose fuses are care-
fully lit in one scene, so that
they explode a scene or two
later; it pops even oftener than
Muriel Pavlow’s succession of
Dresden-doll dresses; a real doll
she is, although, as her hus-
band the mystery-writer, her
husband Derek Farr works a
bit harder at the acting; his
pliable face gets a thorough
work-out in horror, love, be-
wilderment, dismay, terror, etc.
Farr's companion of their
previous play, Noel Ferrier,
also showed his pliability by
being almost unrecognisable as
the tough detective; Stewart
Ginn made a smooth-talking,
affable D.A.; Walter Pym, a
cheerful, bumbling neighbor;
Gwen Plumb, as a rorty estate-
agent, and Edward Hepple, as
a deaf and ancient guardian of
the peace, hit these character-
parts with sledgehammers;
Maurice Travers and Wayne
Polzin made sinister Mafia-
gangsters, and Charles Mc-
Callum an unobtrusive police-
surgeon. But the best thing
about the production as a whole
was the certainty with which its
innumerable small points were
made.
Sargent in Brisbane
A Sargent concert is a com-
plete guide to a musical land-
scape. If you get lost his baton
clearly points out the return of
the principal theme or some
particularly delectable piece of
orchestral wizardry. Neverthe-
less, his Brisbane programme
with a vastly improved Queens-
land Orchestra after a space of
some 15 years was not as
adventurous as it might have
been from one who can gener-
ate excitement from almost any
music.
If it was not designed for
an easy success, it still did not
display Sargent’s qualities to
the full, for the first half had
too much minor music, and
was- not very searching
emotionally.
Rossini’s “Journey to
Rheims” Overture was played
with a razor-sharp attack and
a sense of fun which took one’s
mind off the fact that by
Rossini’s own standards this
overture does not make the
grade melodically. Borodin’s
“Nocturne” is, on the other
hand, a wonderful tune, and
the strings polished it beauti-
fully.
It is debatable whether a
major conductor should spend
time accompanying a concerto
when his visit is brief. On this
occasion the orchestra was con-
sistently on top in Rachmani-
noff’s Second, mainly because
pianist Lance Dossor’s
approach was altogether too
gentlemanly. The powerful


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Is Divorce.
TO LESLIE RUSSELL late of Carlton
Melbourne Vic.—-TAKE NOTICE that
the Petition in Divorce No. 740 of 1957
filed in this Court wherein WILLIAM
SANDERSON has claimed a Divorce
fvom BESSIE SANDERSON on the
ground of her adultery with you has
been amended pursuant to an Order
made by His Honor Mr. Justice Neild
on the 18th day of February One thou-
sand nine hundred and sixty If you
wish to defend you may enter an appeat-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Mint Building Macquarie Street
Sydney within two months and two days
from the date of the publication of this
Notice and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. HICK-
SON LAKEMAN & HOLCOMBE, 13-15
O’Connell Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO COLIN EDWARD STEVENS late
of Ovingham Adelaide South Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that OLGA
EILEEN STEVENS has commenced a
suit No. 756 of 1960 against you in this
Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to
the said suit at the above address on or
before the 25th July, 1960. You may
obtain a copv of the Petition without
charge from PETER G. KEARNEY &
Co., Solicitors, 60 Hunter Street, Syd-
ney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Regisrar.
Not a Bank but Safe as a Bank
CUSTOM CREDIT
NOTES
4 years.... 7*70
3 years.... 6Va%
2 year5....6%
18 months.. 5Va%
12 months..s%%
9 months.. 4%%
6 months.. 4'/»%
3 months.. 3 3 /«%
14 days' call 3’/a%
Interest is paid in aqual quarterly
instalments, free of exchange, on
the last days of June, September,
December and March.
A copy of the Prospectus covering this Issue
of Custom Credit Notes has been lodged with
the Registrar of Companies, Sydney.
The Prospectus and Forms of Application
for Notes are now available from
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANCE
Every branch of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Each of the 43 Branches of
CUSTOM CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
130 New South Head Road, Darling Point,
Sydney. ’Phone: FM 5861
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVB
l Assets in Australia Exceed £80,000,0001
CCNSO.S6Q
chords that precede the appear-
ance of the orchestra should
build up to rafter-shaking pro-
portions instead of sounding
tame. Here there was much
that was beautiful, but little
of the grand style the con-
certo needs.
The symphony was the
Fourth of Brahms, and the
only really strong meat on the
programme. Sir Malcolm dis-
regarded the gloom that pro-
gramme-notes invariably fore-
cast for this work and made
it almost a paean of praise.
Several times the orchestra be-
came ragged in a breathless
pursuit of the grand sweep of
his conception of the music,
but the general impression was
of compelling drive.
D. J. M.
Artbursts
At the Sydney Galleries
The N.SAV. Royal Art
Society's autumn exhibition at
Anthony Hordern's must surely
be as disappointing to the sup-
porters of realism as it is wel-
come to its opponents: for
even if you still think it pos-
sible that a gumtree may look
like a gumtree and an apple
like an apple, the work being
shown here is simply not good
enough.
It is pleasing, however, to
see among the watercolors that
J. Lindsay Sever understands
the art of understatement, and
to note that there is some
freshness in the landscapes of
Jean Derrin and Maude C.
Franks, as there is in the oils
of Frederick Nolte and Molly
G. Johnson.
It is interesting to see an
exhibition (at Farmer’s) by Guy
Grey-Smith, since he has been
much heard-of in Westralia,
but most of his bold, bright,
orange abstracts look shallow,
and there is more real crafts-
manship in his pottery (and
also in the fabrics by Helen
Grey-Smith). Two of his more
attractive landscapes, with
some waving grasses to offset
the bare geometry, would them-
seives make pleasing designs
for fabrics.
William Drew (Clune Gal-
leries) is a young painter much
under various influences.
Though his green horse is
lively enough in its way, most
of his “Byzantine” and Pic-
asso-like pieces merely look
like conscientious efforts to
paint in' a fashionable mode,
and he is much more promising
when he is roaming round Pad-
dington observing it with his
own eyes. Despite the obvious
derivation from Dobell in the
curving figure and swirling
background, “Study of a Girl”
is a fine little painting, and
there is also an alert bit of
observation in “Chinese Market
Gardener.”
Kenneth Hood (Macquarie
Galleries) strikes a happy bal-
ance between abstraction and
realism ; and what can be said
about bottles and lemons and
fish—in one case most ingeni-
ously arranged on a tall table —
he says very well. His colors
here are mostly brown and
white, quite striking in their
simplicity, and he is also effec-
tive in the more ambitious
color-schemes and subject-mat-
ter of his beach-scenes.
Films
“Ben-Hur”
William Wyler’s direction of
this screenplay of General Lew
Wallace's novel is in singu-
larly good taste, nowhere more
so than in the sequences in
which Christ is portrayed. An
enormously expensive produc-
tion, it does not make sheer
spectacle the be-all and end-
all ; there is some superb
character-drawing. The story is
allowed to develop cogently
and unhurriedly ; yet, although
the production extends to close
on four hours, it never seems
slow-moving.
When Wyler does decide to
go for spectacle it carries a
terrific punch. First comes the
sea-battle between the Roman
and Macedonian galleys—a
slam-banging, in-fighting affair
of fierce individual contention
and catapulted blazing missiles,
with never the faintest sign of
phoniness. But for seat-grip-
ping excitement this is knocked
sideways by the celebrated
chariot-race.
This is surely the greatest
outdoor-action sequence in the
history of cinema. So big is
the arena that 36 horses go
around it abreast without
crowding, and every foot of the
nine laps is alive with thrills.
Wyler has also achieved some
notable portraits. Charlton
Heston is completely convinc-
ing in the title-role, as much
in physical characteristics as in
the more subtle aspects of
character-projection. Stephen
Boyd, as the Roman Consul
who turns from friendship with
Ben-Hur to implacable hatred,
and Jack Hawkins, as the
Roman admiral who adopts
Hur in gratitude for having
saved his life in the sea-battle,
go right to the core of their
parts.
Australian actor Frank
Thring makes his Pilate a
cynical hand-washer, weary of
keeping the inter-warring Jews
in subjection; Finlay Currie’s
Balthasar is conventionally
drawn; the faithful Esther is
played with refinement by a
dark-eyed Israeli beauty, Haya
Harrareet.
At Sydney St. James.


Commonwealth Trade and Preference
By PAUL BAREAU
[City Editor of the “News Chronicle,” London]
HPhe economic realities of the
-*■ Commonwealth are this
year being brought to the eyes
and minds of thousands of
people in Britain by a series
of “Commonwealth Weeks”
held in major cities of the
United Kingdom. In each of
these there is an exhibition
which is designed to illustrate
as fully as possible the life and
activities of the various peoples
of the Commonwealth.
In Birmingham, where the
Week was opened by Sir Eric
Harrison, High Commissioner
for -Australia in London, local
industry has staged an impres-
sive display of what it can
manufacture for the Common-
wealth countries. At the open-
ing, there were 250 invited
guests representing High Com-
missioners in London, the Com-
monwealth Relations Office,
the Colonial Office, other Gov-
ernment departments and im-
portant facets of life in Bir-
mingham.
The first of these “Common-
wealth Weeks” was held in
Liverpool in November, 1959.
Others are to be held in many
cities and towns in a series that
will stretch well into 1961.
Special Relationship
Although Britain is a world-
trader and -banker, its commer-
cial relations with the Common-
wealth occupy a very special
position within that wider uni-
versal context, which, in terms
of trading relations, is symbo-
lised by the tariff-preferences
which most members of the
Commonwealth extend to one
another.
In terms of financial relations
it is exemplified by the privi-
leged position given to Com-
monwealth countries in the
matter of overseas capital-
issues allowed through the
London capital-market. The
absence of exchange-control
between the United Kingdom
and other members of the Ster-
ling Area is another facet of
this special relationship, al-
though it does not apply to
Canada, which is outside the
Sterling Area. Moreover, it is
an advantage which has lost
some of its value since all ster-
ling earned by non-residents
became convertible towards the
end of 1958.
The degree of preference in
Commonwealth trade has been
waning in recent years. This
is in part due to the effect of
inflation. The comprehensive
system of tariff-preferences has
been in operation since 1932.
Many of the tariffs in terms of
which preferences were granted
are specific: that is they specify
the duty at so much per pound
of weight, a yard of length, or
unit of manufactured article.
As the prices of these com-
modities have risen the pro-
portionate importance of the
preference has declined.
Tariff Concessions
Another reason why this
preferential element has been
waning is that over the past 12
years there has been a world-
wide dismantling of tariffs
under the aegis of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, in the course of which
many margins of preference
have been narrowed by Com-
monwealth countries in ex-
change for tariff-concessions by
countries outside the Common-
wealth and by the negotiation
of bilateral trade-agreements
between the United Kingdom
and other members of the
Commonwealth.
Nonetheless, preferences re-
main part of the practical ties
that bind the increasingly
flexible structure of the Com-
monwealth. As its political
links become looser and more
varied, there is much to be
said for maintaining this com-
mercial evidence of kinship
between members of the Com-
monwealth.
Since the Commonwealth
comprises more than a quarter
of the population of the entire
globe, its trading system, cover-
ing as it does people of all con-
tinents, colors and creeds, is
of fundamental importance not
only to Britain and the other
Commonwealth countries but
to the free world. Even though
the element of preference may
be waning, the system which
has been operating since 1932
has helped to build-up British
economic strength and that of
other Commonwealth coun-
tries.
One Half to Commonwealth
Analysis of Britain’s export
trade shows that roughly half
goes to Commonwealth coun-
tries, a quarter to the countries
of Europe in the Organisation
for European Economic Co-
operation, and the balance to
the rest of the world. This
residual item contains what has
now become the largest single
outlet for British goods, namely
the United States of America.
“Here, Abdul, try a filter-tip.”
It was not long ago that two
Commonwealth countries, Aus-
tralia and South Africa, jostled
for the claim to be the biggest
market for British goods. The
fact that they have been
elbowed out by the United
States is a token of the vigor
which Britain has put behind
its dollar export-drive.
It also reflects a phenomenon
which has been observable
throughout the structure of
international trade in recent
years: that is, the greatest ex-
pansion in trade has been that
between competing, highly in-
dustrialised countries, and not
between the so-called comple-
mentary economies of indus-
trial countries on the one hand
and primary-producers on the
other.
Free Trade in Europe
As a group, however, the
Commonwealth markets are
absolutely vital to British ex-
porters. Conversely, the United
Kingdom market, in which all
but a few Commonwealth
products are guaranteed duty-
free entry, is equally essential
to the Commonwealth coun-
tries. The fact has had to be
borne in mind throughout the
complicated discussions that
have centred around Britain’s
trading-relations with Western
Europe.
One of the prime reasons
why the United Kingdom could
not become a member of the
Common Market of six coun-
tries was that, as such, it would
have been compelled to estab-
lish a common tariff against the
outside world, including pre-
sumably the Commonwealth
countries since most of these
would have found it impossible
to become members of such a
group. That would have meant
not merely abolishing Com-
monwealth preference but
putting it in reverse.
Commonwealth trading - re-
lations with the European Free
Trade Association will not give
rise to the same difficulties,
since the seven countries in this
association will not establish a
common tariff towards the rest
of the world, and have more-
over drawn-up rules which will
allow the United Kingdom to
reconcile membership of what
will ultimately be a free-trade
area in Europe with the con-
tinuance of Commonwealth
preferences.


Telegraphic and Cable Address: “Hatmax” Sydney
HATTERSLEY & MAXWELL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
115 Pitt Street, Sydney. Telephone: BWI77I—BIT 8088
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
■Established in 1817 and incorporated
by an Act of Parliament in 1850,
the Bank of New South Wales is the
oldest and largest bank in the Common-
wealth, and is now an Australian
institution.
The 'Wales has 1070 branches and
agencies (previous year 1052) in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, Papua and New
Guinea, Fiji and London.
In addition to its general banking
business, the 'Wales has other extensive
interests. A savings-bank was formed in
1956, and is doing very well (last year
deposits increased by £32 million to £126
million). Bank of New South Wales
Nominees Pty. has been successfully
operating since 1944.
A 40 p.c. interest is held in Australian
Guarantee Corporation, Ltd. In June,
1958, the bank announced the formation
of Wales Unit Investment Pty. Since
then two other “unit-trusts” have been
established (funds exceeded £4.5 million
on September 30, 1959).
In January, 1959, the 'Wales took over
the management of Southern Units
Trusts, Ltd., and acquired 200,000 10s.
ords. in Australian United Corporation,
Ltd. The bank also has a 40 p.c. interest
in Australian United Development Pty.
Last term the bank bought-out Aus-
tralian Superannuation Funds, Ltd.,
which has been managing superannuation
funds in Queensland for self-employed
persons and for employees as individuals
and groups.
The central-bank system functioning
in Australia has appreciably circum-
scribed the activities of private trading-
banks. As a consequence, a roughly
parallel structure of capital- and con-
sumer-finance has developed through the
various hire-purchase organisations. In
1958-59 this trend was continued, and
more borrowers “were obtaining accom-
modation outside the banking-system.”
This accounts for the reduction in bank-
advances, in spite of a buoyant economy,
and a relatively easier credit-policy fol-
lowed last year.
The establishing of an officially-
recognised short-term money-market was
an important, if marginal, development.
Lodgments have climbed up from an
initial £18.2 million in March, 1959, to
£25.8 million in September, 1959, and
£26.8 million in February, 1960 (down
from a peak of £28.7 million last
January).
The new Reserve Bank system, with
the Commonwealth Trading Bank put
on a generally competitive basis, was
welcomed by the trading-banks. How-
ever, the ’Wales president feels that the
new Commonwealth Development Bank
“has been clothed with such undefined
powers that under political or sectional
pressure it could constitute a serious
form of discrimination -against the exist-
ing institutions.”
The Commonwealth Government's ex-
pectations that the monetary expansion
caused by its budgeted cash-deficit would
be offset to a great degree by the antici-
pated drain on the balance-of-payments
had largely failed to materialise last year.
Wool prices picked-up from a poor start
and there was a considerable inflow of
overseas capital. The demands made on
the credit-system were lighter than ex-
pected and trading-banks’ liquidity was
high at the end of the season.
New Zealand's economy experienced
considerable fluctuations, but overseas
balances chalked - up a marked im-
provement. Permission for the trading-
banks to operate savings-accounts in
New Zealand was refused.
Profit-wise, the year ended September
30, 1959, was quite satisfactory for the
’Wales. Consolidated net profit increased
by £388,667 (or about 19 p.c.) to
£2,439,533, after undisclosed provisions
for tax and depreciation:
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. — s serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1950. . 847,790 8 p.c. = 702,400 145,390 6,791,663
1951.. 954,006 8 „ „ 702,400 251,606 7,043,269
1952. . 997,769 8 „ „ 702,400 295,369 7,338,638
1953.1,117,835 Si „ „ 746,300 371,535 7,710,173
Share premiums reserve, £1,646,250 9,356,423
From inner reserves, £1,000,000 .. 10,356,423
1954.1,491,417 9 p.c. = 1,078,600 412,817 10,769,240
1955.1,693,895 9 „ ~1,185,300 508,595 11,277,835
Consolidated Figures.
Share-premiums, £1.097,500 .. 12,375,335
1956.1,817,168 9 p.c. = 1,375,387 441,781 12,817,116
1957.1.830,240 9 „ „ 1,580,400 249,840 13,066,956
From contingency reserve, £2,000,000 15,066,956
1958.2,050,866 9 p.c. = 1,580,400 470,466 15,537,422
1959.2,439,533 9 „ ~1,876,725 562,808 16,100,230
This was equivalent to an earning-rate
of 11.7 p.c. on the larger average capital,
compared with 11.7 p.c. in 1958, 10.4 p.c.
in 1957 and 11.8 p.c. in 1956.
The steady 9 p.c. div.-rate absorbed
£1,876,725. Reserves benefited by
£562,808, rising to £16,100,230, free of
intangibles.
The savings-bank contributed £270,203
(up £71,720) to consolidated profits, the
earning-rate rising from 19.8 p.c. to
27 p.c. on the average ord. capital em-
ployed.
These improvements in profit-rates are
encouraging in view of the decline in
advances and rise in deposits, in com-
mon with the other trading - banks.
Moreover, savings - bank operations are
limited by the terms of the bank's licence,
requiring a minimum of 70 p.c. of
savings-deposits to be invested into
Government or semi-Government securi-
ties (up £22,451,706 at £84,935,554).
Consolidated balance-sheet shows that
deposits, etc., jumped by £77,356,858 to
£645,674,447. Paid capital was increased
by £4,390,000 to £21,950,000 by the issue
of 219,500 £2O ords., l-for-4 at par, in
October, 1958:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1957. 1958. 1959.
Paid capital. £17,560,000 £17,560,000 £21,950,000
Reserves . . 12,898,254 15,537,422 16,100,230
Notes . . 80,892 80,892" 80,872
Ueposits, etc. 484,946,211 568,317,589 645,674,447
l)ue other banks 1,535,297 903,907
Final div. . . 395,100 395,100 493,875
£515,880,457 £603,426,300 £685,203,331
Liquids .. 154,461,148 224,061,174 309,671,711
Special a/cs* 93,601,633 74,301,175 71,162,223
Advances .. 251,666,621 287,660,967 285,474,458
Premises .. 10,500,000 11,500,000 12,050,000
Other assets 5,651,055 5,902,984 6,844,939
£515,880,457 £603,426,300 £685,203,331
* Statutory deposits with central banks, Australia
and New Zealand.
The ratio of liquid assets (excluding
special accounts) to deposits was almost
47.9 p.c.—an unusually high proportion.
The advances-to-deposits ratio fell to a
low 44.2 p.c. The true ratios are a bit
higher in both cases, because the deposits
figure includes other liabilities, such as
accrued interest, bills payable, tax-pro-
visions, “contingencies,” etc.
The decrease of advances, particularly
47.9 p.c.—an unusually high proportion,
ment in the general economic conditions.
The estimated gross national product
rose by 6 p.c. in 1958-59, mainly due
to recovery in farm incomes (up 22 p.c.).
Personal consumption increased by 5 p.c.
Rising costs and inflationary trends con-
tinue to be the main worries.
The bank’s widespread interests in the
vital sections of national economy ensure
an element of steady growth for its
shareholders.
At the last sale in Sydney the £2O ords.
fetched £4O 10s. each, for an immediate
yield of 4.4 p.c. p.a. Net tangible asset-
backing visibly worked-out at a solid
£34 13s. sd. for each £2O ord.
Lowes, Ltd.
'T'he Sydney-registered, -old-established
tailor, outfitter, and retailer of TV-
sets, home-appliances, radios, etc., trades
through a chain of stores in Sydney,
Parramatta, Wollongong and Newcastle.
Last term the co. experienced the worst
setback in earnings in its 11 years of
business as a public co. Net profit
toppled-down to considerably less than
a third of the preceding year’s earnings.
In comparison with the more representa-
tive 1956 and 1957 periods, last term’s
profit represents a fall to about a fifth.
The dividend, already cut from 10 p.c.
to 6 p.c. the year before, was passed
altogether.
The drastic fall in earnings was mainly
due to increased overhead costs and


RALPH W. KING & YUILL
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BE 3771-3-3
406 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 67-5089, 67-5080
Cables and Telegrams: “Ralphuing” Sydney and Melbourne
Branches at Grafton and Armidale
A. L. NEVITT & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER, N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHAREBROKERS
Ground Floor, The National Mutual Fife Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31 2761 (4 Dines) P.O. Box No. 1887 W
losses incurred in the women’s-wear
department. This section was closed in
March, 1959, and is now being con-
verted into “a very modern restaurant,”
to be operated in conjunction with
Downyflake Food Corp. Pty. Men’s and
boys’ departments had also experienced
a decline in sales. Trading-stocks had
to be written-down.
On the other hand, Lowes’ venture
into “foreign lands” TV, home-
appliances and radio-retailing has so
far proved a successful foray. Sales im-
proved in the year under review.
There were some complications with
the co.’s h.-p. scheme. It was necessary
“to discount some of the h.-p. agree-
ments with an outside co.”. In addition,
£110,399 was borrowed from the
National Mutual Life Association, The
loan was secured by insurance-policies
and h.-p. agreements.
Net profit for the year ended January
31, 1960, was £26,541 lower at £10,713,
after deducting all expenses, including
£16,702 depreciation provision (up
£2248): —
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. r Dividends-^ —, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1954 .. 62,602 174p.c.= 43,037 19,565 301,605
1955 . . 77,561 20 „ „ 49,129 28,432 330,037
Assets revalued, £324,014 . . . . 654,051
Reserves capitalised, £227,677 .. 426,374
1956 . . 55,175 10 p.e.= 49,438 5,737 432,111
Profit sale assets, £2249 .. .. 434,360
1957 .. 55,736 10 p.e.= 49,352 6,384 440,744
Freeholds revalued, £320,395 ... .. 761,139
Loss, sale investments, £72 .. .. 761,067
1958 .. 51,280 10 p.c. = 49,150 2,130 763,197
Tax overprovided, £5OOO .. .. 768,197
Surplus sale shares, £59 . . . . 768,256
1959 .. 37,254 6 p.c. = 29,379 7,875 776,131
Surplus sale shares, £14,548 .. ..790,679
1960 . . 10,713 10,713 801,392
No tax provision was made, as it is
expected that the retiring - allowance,
payable to the director and general
manager (an allowable deduction) will
offset the charge. If tax were provided
for at current rates, the net profit would
have been reduced to about £6700.
The earning-rate on the unchanged
average ord. capital declined to a token
2.3 p.c., compared with 8.2 p.c. in 1959
and 10.4 p.c. in 1958. In the absence of
a div., reserves benefited by £10,713.
Apart from the £110,399 loan from
National Mutual, liabilities decreased.
Bank accommodation was £71,320 lower
at £128,679 and creditors £25,894 down
at £118,900:
1958. 1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £455,354 £455,354 £455,354
Reserves . . 763,197 776,131 801,392
Mortgage . . 60,000 54,583 49,166
Loan .. 110,399
Overdraft . . 126,502 199,999 128,679
Creditors . . 126,960 144,794 118,900
Provision for tax, etc. 78,767 56,674 34,290
Staff funds . . 36,180 34,732 13,753
FinaT dividend . . 24,560 14,688
£1,671,520 £1,736,955 £1,711,933
Freeholds . . 1,077,744 1,083,558 1,091,379
Plant, etc. . . 115,641 115,365 107,400
Stock . . 360,641 369,619 285,757
Debtors . . 68,744 121,907 180,491
Cash, shares, etc. 48,750 46,506 46,906
£1,671,520 £1,736,955 £1,711,933
Current stocks were shown at £285,757
(down £83,862), indicating a substantial
write-down. Book-debts again increased,
going up by £58,584. Theoretical work-
ing-capital seemed adequate at £217,532.
Current ratio worked out at 1.7 to 1.
Lowes is fighting back with consider-
able vigor. Early last term an extensive
modernisation programme was com-
pleted at the Newcastle store. Turnover
picked-up as a result. This year the co.
proposes to “completely modernise” the
Wollongong and Parramatta stores.
Sales in the current term are said to
have shown substantial increases. There
have been changes in the management.
A new general-manager has taken over
the executive reins.
The sharemarket continues to show
considerable interest in Lowes’ scrip,
in spite of the recent setbacks. At the
last sale in Sydney the ss. f.-p. ords.
fetched 10s. a unit.
Net tangible asset-backing works-out
at 13s. 9d. for each ss. ord.
Kornblums Furnishings, Ltd.
/Comment by directors of Kornblums
Furnishings, Ltd., that “The Gov-
ernment relaxation of import-restrictions
on certain lines which are important to
our operations should prove of assis-
tance” appears to need some qualifica-
tion.
Kornblums’ manufacturing-subsidiary,
Furnishing Textiles Pty., has just con-
structed a new mill at Abbotsford, Vic.,
additional plant has been installed, and
overall capacity is now increased.
Import-restrictions caused the group to
handle an increasingly larger proportion
of locally produced goods, but while
these restrictions forced the parent to
find new sources of supply and generally
added to trading difficulties, they also
helped to boost earnings of the manu-
facturing-subsidiary.
It remains to be seen, and the current
term will provide the answer, whether
benefits accruing from the liberalisation
of controls will outweigh effects of com-
petition from overseas as applied to
Furnishing Textiles Pty.
An importer, manufacturer and dis-
tributor of furnishings, Kornblums has
its head-office in Melbourne. Two of the
three operating subsidiaries, Kornblums
Pty. and Kornblums (S.A.), Ltd., distri-
bute carpets, linoleum, furnishing-
materials, etc., throughout Australia;
the third offshoot, mentioned earlier,
manufactures high - grade furnishing
fabrics.
The parent co. was formed in 1951
(over 60 years after the foundation of
the business), 180,000 10s. ords. being
offered to the public at par. In 1953,
40,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs., participating to
7 p.c., were issued to assist in financing
the purchase of the S.A. subsidiary. Last
term, in September, an issue of 246,000
ords. —3 for 10 ords., 6 for 10 prefs. and
6 for every £lO of notes —at par, lifted
paid capital to its present £433,000.
The year ended January 31 last was
a difficult one, consolidated net profit
at £47,794 (down £3824) reaching its
lowest register in seven years. Mel-
bourne and Adelaide sales showed an
upward trend. Furnishing Textiles Pty.
set record turnover figures. But profit
from Sydney trading, which extends into
Queensland, was below expectations;
however, new sole-agency lines are ex-
pected to help during the current term.
Relief from removal costs and other
non-recurring expenses within the group
is also expected. Two Brunswick (Vic.)
properties have been sold since balance-
date. Satisfactory prices were received.
Latest result was reckoned after setting
aside £33,580 (down £1572) for taxation
and £18,724 (down £854) for deprecia-
tion and plant-replacement:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. / Dividends—,, serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1957 . . 58,159 2,800 27,000 28,359 137,880
Note-issue expenses, etc., £3436 .. 134,444
Tax overprovided, £1265 . . . . 135,709
To plant-replacement reserve, net, £760 136,469
Freeholds revalued, £45,237 .. 181,706
1958 . . 60,597 2,800 27,000 30,797 212.503
To plant-replacement reserve, net, £967 - 213,470
Tax overprovided, £63 . . . . 213,533
Loss, sale assets, £928 .. .. 212,605
1959 .. 51,618 2800 27,000 21,818 234,423
To plant-replacement res., net, £1220 235,643
Tax overprovided, £4350 .. .. 239,993
Loss, sale and scrapping assets, £3740 236,253
expenses,, £3149 . . 233,104
1960 .. 47,794 2800 28,025 16,969 250,073
* Subject to intangibles, £43,951 at 27/l/’6O.
It works-out at 16 p.c. on average ord.
capital, allowing for prefs., and com-
pares with 18.1 p.c., 21.4 p.c., 20.5 p.c.
and 23.3 p.c. for the four years back to
1956.
Ord. divs., held at 10 p.c. since 1955,
left, nevertheless, a good margin for
reserves, which rose in all £15,650 to
£250,073 and include tax overprovided
in previous years.
Sharp increases in the book-values of
land, buildings, plant and machinery
since 1957 reflect a large-scale capital-
investment programme:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1958. 1959. 1960.
Pref .. .. £40,000 £40,000 £40,000
Ord 270,000 270,000 384,975
Reserves . . 212,503 234,423 ( 250,073
Outside interests.. 16,085 15,675 19,296
Mortgage . . 100,000 100,000 100,000
Notes . . . . 100,000 100,000 , 100,000
Overdraft . . 108,923 193,221
Creditors • • 173,995 132,787 150,154
Tax provision .. 70,971 62,210 52,667
Final div. . . 14,900 14,900 15,925
£998,454 £1,078,918 £1,306,311
Land, buildings . . 279,511 395,842 490,098
Plant, etc. .. 61,706 63,267 152,363
Shares .. 112 112
Stock, etc. .. 367,506 373,809 429,575
Debtors .. 236,190 201,651 189,780
Cash .. 9,478 286 544
Intangibles .. 43,951 43,951 43,951
£998,454 £1,078,918 £1,306,311
Over the triennium mortgage, note,


La fee
Investments
LIMITED
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £1,000.000
INVEST NOW
Interest rates:
8% per annum 3 yeses or m,or®
7% per annum 2 yeses
6% per annum 1 year
5% per annum 6 months
a
%v
O
,V
I
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3 YEARS OR MORE
TOTAL ASSETS EXCEED £11.000.000. ASSET BACKING, £1,086
FOR EACH £lOO OF REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Application for Debentures may only be made on the application
Forms attached to the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
PARKER & STEWART
Underwriting Brokers,
(Member of Sydney Stock Exchange)
56 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. Phone: BW 1057.
or any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange or direct from the Company
or its subsidiaries.
LATEC FINANCE PTY. LTD.
113-115 William Street,
Sydney, n.s.w. phone: FA6681.
LATEC INVESTMENTS LIMITED
Letec House,
741 Hunter Street,
NEWCASTLE WEST, N.S.W.
Phone: MA 4344.
SY3O6IAB
I
i
overdraft and share-capital
finance have all been used to
meet the cost of expansion.
Last term bank-overdraft rose
£84,298 to £193,221 ; creditors
rose £17,367 to £150,154.
Theoretical working - capital,
though somewhat tighter,
shows no sign of real strain.
And sale of the Brunswick
properties should help.
The furniture game is
essentially a tricky one, offer-
ing steady but rarely spectacu-
lar profits. Kornblums is no
exception to the rule, though
present prospects would indi-
cate improved earnings during
the year in progress. The co. can
now offer a better and more
comprehensive range of merch-
andise—since the lifting of
import- restrictions - and
demand for its products seems
to be increasing. Enlarged
capital may, however, take
more to service if the div.
remains unchanged.
Last sold at 11s. 9d., the 10s.
ords. give an immediate yield
of 8.5 p.c. provided mainten-
ance of the present div. level.
Net tangible asset-backing
for the ords. worked out at
15s. 3d.; for the prefs. £l5 19s.
4d. Freeholds were revalued
in 1958.
Union Trustee Co. of Aust.
HUhe Victorian - registered
* Union Trustee Co. of Aus-
tralia, Ltd., one of the largest
corporate trustees in the
country, has been in business
for three-quarters of a century.
Union Trustee operates,
throughout Victoria, N.S.W.
and Queensland, where, with
a long experience in pastoral
business behind it, the co. acts
as a trustee, administrator,
guardian and agent. An inter-
est is held in the Central Share
Registry of Australia, formed
early in 1958 to maintain share-,
debenture- and note-registers,
etc., on behalf of public cos.
Corporate trustees, provid-
ing a.wide range of useful and
complex services for a mode-
rate scale of fees (commission
rates, mostly limited by statute),
have found themselves severely
hit by inflation. The scales of
commissions applying in the
eastern States remained prac-
tically frozen during the first
half of the century. In 1952 an
increase was granted, but
covered only the new business.
Share-capital in trustee cos.
is generally represented by
statutory guarantee - funds,
Government securities, free-
holds, etc. Income from these
is often the main source of
dividends.
All these circumstances make
it difficult for trustee-cos. to
improve their earning-rates.
Expenses keep trailing the
revenue from commissions and
interest.
Under these conditions the
Union Trustee’s performance
over the last few years has been
satisfactory.
After providing for con-
tingencies, gross income for
the year ended February 29,
1960, increased £25,392 to
£409,803 (£375,472 . commis-
sions, excluding amounts not
fully earned, and £34,331 rents
and interest from investments).
This was the highest gross profit
on record:
Commissions, Exes. p,e.
Interest, etc. Exes. Earnings.
1934 .. £291,176 £281,133 96.5
1955 .. 308,328 294,102 95.4
1956 . . 320,532 307,060 95.8
1957 . . * 343,209 328,070 92.6
1958 . . 370,115 353,220 95.4
1959 . . 384,411 366,321 95.3
1960 . . 409,803 391,080 95.3
Expenses increased corres-
pondingly, amounting to
£391,080 (up £24,759), includ-
ing £14,717 provision for taxa-
tion (down £2348). This was
equivalent to 95.3 p.c. of com-
missions, interest, etc., earned
by the co. (95.3 p.c. in 1959
and 95.4 p.C. in 1958).
N ? ,r fit for ,he y T was
much the same as in the pre-
vious term, rising by £633 to
_ . i ? t J ~
return 13.6 p.c. on the
unchanged paid capital. This
compares with 13.1 p.c. earned
in 1959, 12.3 p.c. in 1958, 11


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE.
DEBENTURE STOCK.
fill
EtSEiJ
p.a.
4 to 10
years
[Currency
Interest
Per Annum
4-10 years
3 years
2 years
1 year
6 months
7 days’
call
TFm
tf BHKI Ml 11 M 3 S!m»j
Bn3
Assets of the Company exceed £3,500,000
Asset backing: £515 for every £lOO invested.
Debentures are of £lOO issued at par.
Applications will be made for the listing- of
the long- term Debenture Stock of the Issue
on the Sydney and Brisbane Stock Exchanges.
[l]
Bankers to the Company and for the Issue:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Underwriting Brokers: RALPH W. KING &
YUILL, 113 Pitt Street. SYDNEY. Members
of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
Brokers for the Issue in Newcastle: F. S.
SCORER & CO., T. and G. Building, Hunter
Street, Newcastle. Members of the Newcastle
Stock Exchange.
Brokers for the Issue in Queensland: CORRIE
& CO., Union Trustee Chambers, 400 Queen
Street, Brisbane. Branches at Cairns, Towns-
ville, Rockhampton and Surfers’ Paradise.
Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
Trustees for Debenture holders: BANKERS’
& TRADERS’ INSURANCE CO., LTD.
PROSPECTUS^
WITH
APPLICATION
FORMS
Applications can be accepted only on the
printed form attached to the Prospectus, a
copy of which has been lodged with the Regi-
strar of Companies, Queensland.
AVAILABLE FROM:
Any member of the SYDNEY, NEW-
CASTLE or BRISBANE STOCK
EXCHANGES.
Any Branch Office of the Company.
Any N.S.W. or Queensland Branch of
the Bank of New South Wales.
POST COUPON
Please send me a copy of Prospectus with Application Forms, j
without obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 18/5/'GO
p.c, in 1957 and 9.8 p.c. in
1956:
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit, f— serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
>54..10,043 7 = 9,625 418 92,060
’55..14,226 8 = 11,000 3,226 95.286
’56..13,472 8 = 11,000 2,472 97.75 S
’57„15,139 8 = 11,000 4,139 101,897
To prov. long-service leave,
£14,000 87,897
’58..16,895 9 = 12,375 4,520 92,417
’59..18,090 10 = 13,750 4,340 96,757
’60..18,723 10 = 13,750 4,973 101,730
The steady 10 p.c. div. (raised
from 9 p.c. in 1959) absorbed
£13,750. Reserves benefited by‘
the remaining £4973, totalling
£101,730 free of intangibles.
Paid capital was unchanged
at £137,500 in £2 10s. ords.
paid to £1 7s. 6d. each. The
actual liability callable on the
shares is 2s. 6d. a unit. The
reserve liability of £1 a share
is payable only in the event of
liquidation.
The main changes in the
balance-sheet were a £44,159
increase in the book-value of
freehold and a £40,465 drop
in cash, etc.:
1959. 1960.
Paid capital .. £137,500 £137,500
Reserves . . . . 96,757 101,730
Loan on mortage . . 80,000 80,000
Tax provision, etc. 34,615 32,638
Long-service provis’n 14,000 14,000
Final divs. .. 6,875 6,875
£369,747 £372,743
Freeholds . . 244,263 288,422
Debtors . . 1,327 629
Guarantee funds held
bv State Govts... 52,400 52,400
Cash, etc. . . 71,757 31,292
£369,747 £372,743
The increase in commissions
earned is encouraging. The
scrip now returns a fair div.-
rate and represents a secure
investment. However, pro-
spects of capital-gains continue
to be modest.
At the last sale in Sydney
the ords., paid-up to £1 7s. 6d.,
changed hands at 435. each.
The immediate return was 6.4
p.c. on the basis of the steady
10 p.c. div.-rate.
Each 20s of paid capital was
backed by 345. lOd. of net tan-
gible assets.
Austral Malay Tin, Ltd.
A ustral Malay is registered
in Taip i n g (Perak,
Malaya) and acts as secre-
taries and general-managers
for, and holds an interest in,
Kampong Kamunting Tin
Dredging, Ltd., Pungah Tin
Dredging, Ltd., Austral Amal-
gamated Tin, Ltd., and Austral
Prospecting, Ltd. —all operat-
ing in Malaya.
Paid capital is £lOO,OOO (the
co.’s accounts are all shown
in £ stg.) in 200,000 10s. ords.,
f.-p.
All operating mines man-
aged by the co. worked on a
restricted basis during the
year ended June 30, 1959.
Some dredges had to be
closed-down because of the
output - restriction agreement
operating -on the international
tin market, but have been kept
ready to resume production at
short notice.
Average monthly prices of
tin improved by £2O stg. a ton
to £766 stg. a ton, compared
with the previous year.
The Karangan dredge of
Kampong Kamunting Tin
Dredging, Ltd., was idle
throughout the year due to
lack of reserves. Some boring
was carried-out on the
Puchong leases of Austral
Amalgamated Tin, Ltd.
Areas totalling about 4000
acres in Perak and Selangor,
held under prospecting per-
mits, were tested with “disap-
pointing results.”
The co. intends to test some
areas held under general
prospecting-licences and per-
mits in Kedah and Perak
States. Mining-leases were
obtained in two districts in
Perak and “should prove pay-
able when worked by modern
deep-digging dredges.” Two
areas tested in Thailand
resulted in discovery of some
tin, but values were “too low
to justify making any
selection.”
Gross income from divs.,
interest, etc., for the year was
£3995 lower at £18,082. Costs
were also lower at £4795,
leaving net profit before tax
£2124 lower at £13,287.
After paying two income-
taxes (Malayan, £3384, and
Australian, £BO2 —total, £4186)
net profit was £1454 down at
£9lOl.
Two divs., totalling 3s. on
each 10s. unit, 30 p.c. p.a. (or in
1958, 20 p.c. p.a.), were paid,
subject to the 40 p.c. Malayan
income-tax. Last February
an interim div. of 2s. a share
was declared in respect of the
current term, payable in April.
Current assets were £15,479
lower at £73,785 (including
£61,728 cash), against £32,006
external liabilities (up £3761).
In addition there were
£16,027 Government securities
and £51,269 investments
{excluding £64,852 shares in
associated cos.). Depreciated
book-value of fixed assets was
£67,183.
If the restrictions on tin-
output are relaxed by parties
to the international tin agree-
ment (expiring in June), there
are prospects of a brighter
future for the co. The higher
interim div. is encouraging,
and the sharemarket rating is
very fair.
In Sydney buyers offer 40s.
for the 10s. (stg.) shares
without attracting sellers.


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LILLIAN DOREEN GORMAN late
of Wee Waa Street Walgett New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN
SARAH MORAN has filed a Petition No.
3929 of, 1959 praying for a Divorce
from her husband JOHN JOSEPH
MORAN on the ground of his adultery
with you (between September 195 G and
October 1959 at various places in the
State of New South Wales in particular
at Wee Waa Street Walgett) This
notice is given to you so that you may
have an opportunity to apply to the
Court to be let in to defend the charge
if you so desire. A copy of this Peti-
tion can be obtained from MESSRS.
ABBOTT TOUT CREEK & WILKINSON,
Solicitors, 13-15 O’Connell Street, Syd-
ney.—C. A. H. Harms, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN JOSEPH MORAN late of Wee
Waa Street Walgett New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN SARAH
MORAN has filed a Petition No. 3929
of 1959 on the ground of your adultery
with LILLIAN DOREEN GORMAN (be-
tween September 1956 and October 1959
at various places in the State of New
South Wales and in particular at Wee
Waa Street Walgett) If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
Macquarie Street Sydney by 25th July
1960 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. ABBOTT
TOUT CREER & WILKINSON, Soli-
citors, 13-15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
‘‘ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.-
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Wellington, May 9, 1960.
New Zealand’s overseas
reserves have been climb-
ing steadily and are now close
to what the 1956 Monetary
Commission suggested as a
safe level —half the amount
necessary to pay for a full
year's imports.
A't April 27 reserves stood
at £lO7 million, against £B5
million a year before and
£49 million two years before.
In the year to March 31,
1960, imports amounted to
£241 million.
The Minister of Finance,
Mr. Nordmeyer, recently indi-
cated that £l2O million was the
target he had set for reserves
to enable N.Z. to face the
future with confidence. His
figures appeared to be based
on the Commission’s recom-
mendation.
On the normal pattern,
reserves will go on rising till
the end of June, when receipts
tend to fall and payments rise.
The highest figure ever
reached by N.Z.’s reserves was
£139 million in June, 1954.
Tariff Protection
With the need for import-
control fast disappearing, the
Government is planning tariff-
protection for industry.
Under the provisions of the
General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade, N.Z. is pledged
not to use import-control
except to protect overseas
funds and to build them up
to a safe level.
Mr. Nordmeyer mentioned
this when he announced that
the Government had decided
to introduce this year “a
measure of tariff-protection to
ensure N.Z. industry reason-
able protection.”
It was not possible this year
to introduce a complete tariff-
revision, but a start would be
made, and those industries
needing a measure of protec-
tion would be protected, he
said. There was not in the
Government’s mind any idea
of prohibitive tariffs, but a
reasonable tariff that could be
justified at any court in the
world and at the bar of public
opinion.
The Government also plans
to build factories and rent
them to industry.
Back-door to Socialism
Announcing this scheme,
Mr. Nordmeyer said that
companies would be saved the
necessity of raising capital for
the buildings. They would be
erected by the Government
and a rental charged that
would be “eminently fair.”
He believed this would
stimulate development in
areas where it was a little
slow.
Subsequently it was stated
that applications under the
new scheme would be treated
strictly on their merits and
that conditions governing
assistance would be laid down
as experience dictated.
It remains to be seen how
many company-directors will
be willing to go through this
invitingly opened back-door to
Socialism.
They may feel that it would
be wise to beware, not only
of Greeks, but also of Socialist
Finance Ministers when they
come bearing gifts.
Mr. Nordmeyer says that his
scheme will save companies
the necessity of raising finance
for buildings. Who, then, will
find the money? The tax-
payers, or the subscribers to
Government loans.
It isn't their function to
provide capital for industry.
If Mr. Nordmeyer will remove
his capital-issues control, as
he should have done long ago,
check his own spending and
reduce excessive company-tax,
he will be helping private
enterprise to do the job which
properly belongs to it.
The Election
Politicians are warming-
up for the general election to
be held later this year.
Major points from the policy
announced by the National
party, Labor’s chief opposition,
are :
(1) With a view to granting
the greatest possible freedom to
business, a National Govern-
ment will remove or relax, all
controls over trading which
cannot be justified within a
policy of promoting private
competitive enterprise as the
best means of achieving the
country’s economic welfare.
(2) A Tariff and Develop-
ment Board will be established.
It will include men of wide
business experience and will
replace the present Board of
Trade.
(3) Capital-issues control will
be abolished.
(4) Steps will be taken to
attract overseas capital for in-
vestment in industry, wherever
possible in conjunction with
New Zealand shareholding.
(5) Government - owned
shares in trading-corporations
will be offered to the public as
opportunity offers upon suit-
able terms, and to encourage
widespread investment the
shares will be in small amounts
—say ss.
(6) To enable the Govern-
ment to assess more accurately
likely fluctuations in the level
of overseas funds, a system of
forward exchange notification
will be introduced whereby
importers at the time of plac-
ing orders for overseas goods
will be required to lodge with
their bankers an estimate of
overseas funds likely to be
required.
(7) A Ministry of Overseas
Trade will be established to
pursue a vigorous policy of de-
veloping New Zealand trade
with other countries. Allied
to this, there will be a fully
representative export - import
advisory council comprising
representatives of principal ex-
porters, manufacturers and
importing interests.
(8) An export - insurance
scheme operated through exist-
ing insurance companies will
be sponsored to cover risks
associated with business in new
markets.
(9) The Tariff and Develop-
ment* Board will be required
immediately to revise the Cus-
toms tariff.
(10) Import-control will be
removed from (n) manufac-
turers’ raw materials and
equipment of a class not made
in New Zealand ; and ( b ) from
remaining raw materials and
equipment when recommended
by the Tariff and Development
Board after hearing representa-
tions from affected parties, but
only after adequate protective
Customs duties are in force.
Provided the overseas funds
position is satisfactory, import-
control. If the overseas-funds
from finished goods not made
in N.Z. and ( b ) from other
finished goods after inquiries
and recommendations by the
Tariff and Development Board,
but only after adequate protec-
tive duties are in force and
with the important condition
that import-control will con-
tinue where necessary to en-
sure that efficient industries
can become thoroughly estab-
lished and can have the oppor-
tunity to secure a major portion
of the market.
There will be a right of
appeal direct to the Tariff and
Development Board on all
import-licensing decisions.
A National Government
would not use blanket import-
control. If the overseas-funds
position deteriorated seriously
at any time import-licensing
would be extended only in
respect of selected classes of
goods.


McCusker, of the Railways
By "Observer”
When, in 1956, Neal
McCusker became
Commissioner for
Railways in New
South Wales he was compara-
tively unknown outside the
transport circles in which he
moved.
To the general public the
sudden prominence of his name
meant that Reg Winsor’s
mantle had fallen on his
shoulders in accordance with
an anachronistic regard to
seniority still to be observed
within the public service.
Those who didn’t know him,
if they spared a thought at all
to the job he had inherited,
probably considered he would
need all the luck that could
come to him. He was taking
control of the State’s biggest
industrial undertaking, the
State’s biggest work-force and,
if a succession of deficits could
be taken into account, the
State’s biggest headache.
The vast problems of ad-
ministration were challenge
enough, but there were other
factors then current that
promised to test to the utmost
the capabilities of the new
appointee. He took office at
the time an increase in fares
and freights was announced
from Macquarie Street —an un-
popular piece of legislation
that brought the new Commis-
sioner under fire almost before
he had settled-down in Winsor’s
old chair. The travelling pub-
lic, the press assured him,
would cease to ride in his
trains.
Concurrently, the press was
no less hostile in its roasting of
the Ebasco Report—the offer-
ing of a group of American
traffic-experts on the besetting
sins of, and panaceas for,
Government - owned transport
in N.S.W.
McCusker hadn't fathered
the Ebasco baby, nor did he
like it overmuch, but it was
dumped in his lap on appoint-
ment to office, the same as .had
bpen the unpalatable increases
in fares and freights.
The Australian Railways
Union, too, had been engaged
on activities not calculated to
make McCusker’s job any
easier. Protest-meetings against
the Ebasco Report were being
held in workshops and loco.-
dfcpots throughout the State.
The unionists wanted no part
of the new techniques Ebasco
had advocated for the service
if the path of progress was to
be strewn with unionist casual-
ties. Somewhat in the nature
of an ultimatum, they issued a
12-point plan designed to avert
hardship to union - members
through the introduction of
Ebasco recommendations into
the N.S.W. Railways.
They went further. They
retained the services of staff-
members of the School of
Applied Psychology, University
of Technology, to report on
railway-morale. The psycho-
logists came back with the
finding that morale within the
N.S.W. Railways had never
been at a lower ebb.
This report the A.R.U.
triumphantly placed before the
Minister for Transport, making
clear to him that any Commis-
sioner bent on a programme of
modernisation, Ebasco or no,
had no guarantee of an en-
thusiastic work-force to back
him up.
r T'o the detached observer,
A viewing him against the
turbulent backdrop of railway-
working, McCusker seemed to
possess few of the attributes
of the strong man the job
obviously required. He had
none of the flamboyance or
type of personality that had
enabled Reg Winsor to bring
color to his high office and had
seen him through a crisis or
two.
He was quietly spoken, mild
mannered, and possessed of an
old-world air of courtesy and
sense of the proprieties that did
nothing to lessen the popular
concept of the diligent and
well-indoctrinated public ser-
vant. His speech was con-
sidered, polite, and guarded.
He didn’t smoke and he was
an almost total abstainer. In-
deed, meeting him at that time,
one had the feeling that his
reserve hid the misgiving of a
man of some sensitivity who
shrank from being projected
into the hurly-burly of public
life.'
If four years in office have
seen the emergence of a new
McCusker, the metamorphosis
has been due to the manner in
which he has carried out his
task, rather than to any change
in the man himself—if one can
except a crystallisation of his
reserve into a certain dourness.
And this is only, one suspects,
the reflection of complete pre-
occupation with the task of
putting N.S.W. Railways back
on its feet.
The facts best speak for the
well-guarded pointers to Mc-
Cusker’s character. From a
comparative unknown he has,
in four short years, been
elevated to the status of one of
the most respected public ser-
vants in the Commonwealth.
He has proved himself an able,
sometimes ruthless, business-
man and always a brilliant ad-
ministrator.
Personally publicity-shy, he
has used advertising and public-
relations with an adroitness
that has caused the people of
N.S.W. to take a closer, more
sympathetic, look at their rail-
ways. He has increased con-
siderably the freight-earning
revenue of his command and
successfully branched out into
other revenue-earning fields.
He has lifted staff morale to
heights that have no doubt
astonished the psychologists
from the University of Tech-
nology.
VJcCusker grew-up in an
atmosphere of railways.
Born at Marrickville (Sydney)
in 1907 he spent his youth on
the N.S.W. western plains as
his stationmaster father was
shifted from one post to an-
other —Coolalie, Yerong Creek,
Morundah, Cobar and, finally,
Byrock. Here, in 1923 and at
the age of 16, young McCusker
entered the service as junior
porter. Four years later he
qualified as a stationmaster
with the highest examination-
pass ever awarded in the State.
From Byrock he went to Never-
tire and Bourke.
In 1932 he left the west and
became porter - in - charge at
Gerogery, near Albury. Then
to Tocumwal on the border, to
Goulburn, then back to Tocum-
wal to qualify for a grade. In
1941 he qualified as traffic-in-
spector —again with the highest
marks in the State. Then
followed an appointment as
staff-inspector at Sydney in
January, 1942.
In this capacity he spent the
next six years travelling all over
New South Wales. In 1948 he
joined a committee set-up by
Commissioner T. J. Hartigan
to improve the operating-sec-
tion of the service.
In 1950 new Director of
Transport and Highways Reg
Winsor chose McCusker as his
executive officer. Two years
later Winsor recommended his
lieutenant as Commiss : oner for
Railways, but, with the sudden
death of Commissioner Fraser,
the Government was given the
heaven-sent opportunity of dis-
banding the abortive Director-
ate of Transport and Highways
by appointing Winsor himself
Commissioner. McCusker be-
came Assistant Secretary of
Railway Finance and Opera-
tions.
When Winsor fell sick,
Cabinet chose McCusker over
the heads of two other senior
officers to relieve the Commis-
sioner. Winsor, who seems to
have suffered a change of heart
towards McCusker, obviously
did not like the way things were
shaping. From his sick-bed he
refused McCusker’s appoint-
ment as Deputy Commissioner.
McCusker was given the com-
promise title of Senior Execu-
tive Officer, which he retained
until he, in turn, acceded to
the top job.
T> ight from the outset of his
administration Neal Mc-
Cusker was determined to bring
a business concept to railway-
working, even if he had to
move within well-defined limits
His department was under
Government tutelage; he could
make recommendations, but
general policy decisions, such
as fare and freight structures,
were the responsibility of
Cabinet.
The impossible burden of
ever-rising annual debt-service
charges, he knew, turned opera-
ting profits into losses at the
stroke of a pen. He knew there
was to be no diminution in as-
set-values in the normal course
of railway-operations, although
there was great need for an
adjustment of capital to accord
with current earning-capacity.
Until political relief came in


the form of a substantial re-
mission of capital the spectre
of continual deficits would be
as persistent as Banquo’s ghost.
Being in no position to do
anything about the capital debt
and the charges arising there-
from, McCusker brought his
“business concept” to bear in
those fields in which he could
work untrammelled.
He had two services to sell —
freight and passenger.
An annual loss of £lO million
on passenger-services had long
been the curse of the railways
and sprang from Governmental
policy of providing public ser-
vices whether they paid or not.
McCusker was also faced
with an increasing loss in rail-
passenger patronage. This
did not represent the fulfilment
of any press prophecy, but was
due to changing habits of both
the times and the travelling
public, trends that were evident
on other of the world’s major
systems.
More motor-cars were ap-
pearing on the roads; air-ser-
vices were being extended to
a blanket coverage of the State
and, heavily subsidised by the
Commonwealth Government,
were cutting into inter-State
rail-passenger traffic. Fewer
people were using suburban
trains, due —in addition to the
wider use of motor-cars —to the
extension of city department-
stores into the suburbs.
lyi'cCusKEß set out, if not to
recapture all lost rail-
patronage, then at least to
arrest the rate of the trend
away from it.
He streamlined his schedules
and his services. He boldly
advertised his crack air-con-
ditioned trains. Under his ad-
ministration rail-electrification
was extended from Blacktown
to Lithgow, from Clyde to Car-
lingford (with a spur to San-
down), from Hornsby to Gos-
ford. The length of single elec-
trified track reached 700 miles,
over double what it had been
on his taking over.'
He brought dieselisation to
the North Coast line as the first
stage of his big modernisation
programme. He introduced the
gleaming inter-urban stainless-
steel electrics for the Lithgow
and Gosford runs and acceler-
ated the replacement of steam
by diesel, electric and diesel-
electric traction.
He went after the tourists.
He established a Railway
Travel Bureau to cater for the
requirements of train-tourists,
opening a branch in Martin
Place for the convenience of
down - town prospects. The
bureau’s first year of trading
brought 19,000 new customers
and a revenue of £55,000.
He initiated a Gold Coast
plan offering tourists a holiday
on the fabled sands of south
Queensland at a price below
anything his competitors could
match.
When “My Fair Lady”
opened in Melbourne he was
quick to put rail-travel at the
service of theatre-goers not
content to wait on the Firm’s
bringing the musical to Sydney.
NEAL McCUSKER
He offered them an attractive
package-deal and had the satis-
faction of seeing the first tour
booked out in two minutes flat.
It is in the freighting side of
railway - affairs, however,
that one best observes Mc-
Cusker’s acumen. Essentially
a traffic-man, he has seen his
opportunities and made the
most of them.
He increased his team of
commercial agents, trained
them in salesmanship, and sent
them out along the tracks to
drum-up new business, con-
sistently advertising his freight-
services to give weight to their
State-wide canvass. In the
first six months alone they
added somewhere in the
vicinity of £200,000 to the
annual revenue.
He progressively introduced
bulk-loading to 69 country
towns, using fast diesel-hauled
expresses to give next-day
delivery to towns 360 miles out
from the capital.
The essence of the bulk-load-
ing system lies in the securing
of full truckload consignments
to particular destinations. A
lower scale of freight-rates
applies to most of the goods,
all transit risk being borne by
the Commissioner.
That McCusker has capital-
ised on the revenue-earning
potential of bulk-loading is
evident in the figures. Last
year his department grossed
almost £3f million from this
traffic alone —£1 million better
than the previous year’s take.
' When businessmen of Goul-
burn, who had specifically
asked for it, gave the scheme
half-hearted support, the mild-
mannered man of 19 York
Street stepped right out of
character. He bluntly reminded
them that Goulburn was a rail-
way-town; that if they did not
use rail-transport they could
no longer expect to number
railmen among their customers.
There was a storm of protest
in which the voice of the Long
Distance Road Transport As-
sociation was probably the
loudest. There was talk of
blackmail, thuggery and un-
precedented behavior.
McCusker, having said his
piece, rode out the storm un-
repentant and uncompromising.
He knew just how strong his
medicine was. With Goulburn
railmen drawing a fortnightly
pay-cheque of some £40,000, he
had little trouble in persuading
the businessmen to support the
bulk-loading scheme.
The last report of the
Auditor-General showed that
McCusker’s rail - earnings,
against operating costs yielded
a favorable balance of
£7£ million —an improvement
of more than £3 million on the
previous year’s operations.
Compared with 1957-58,
freight-income was £2.3 million
higher, despite a fall in income
from the shipment of coal and
coke. It was only when capital
charges totalling £13.8 million
were brought into calculation
that a loss of £6.4 million hove
into familiar view.
As one who knows railways
and railwaymen intimately,
McCusker, without help from
psychologists, was probably
well aware of the low standard
of morale when he took office.
Working on the basis that low
morale was inconceivable in a
service of good repute, he set
out to elevate the railways in
the public esteem.
He initiated weekly press-
conferences to keep reporters
up-to-the-minute on railway-
affairs; he organised a continu-
ous flow of railway press-
material to provincial news-
papers. He introduced a bright,
regular four-page publication,
“The Railwayman,” for free
distribution to his 51,500 em-
ployees, and also sent it to
newspaper editors, as a medium
of propaganda.
The dull format of the
Annual Report, little changed
in over a century, he threw
overboard and launched-out in-
to a colorful art-papered offer-
ing, full of high-quality draw-
ings and photographs. He had
no thought for such a report,
haying been tabled in the
House, gathering dust in depart-
mental archives. He made a
policy of placing a copy in the
hands of every newspaper
editor in the State who pub-
lished anywhere near a railway-
line.
He undertook frequent tours
(Continued on page 44)


A real barty
by
RAYMOND BARRY
I had only been back in
Sydney three days from
Adelaide, where I had
spent five years. Peter
Stokes was one of the first
people I met. He invited me
to this party.
Peter was tall and fair and
had been my closest friend
when we were 17, just before
I left for Adelaide. He was
always a bright boy before
when I knew him, but interested
only in sporting-statistics; bat-
ting-averages and the like.
His parents were hard-work-
ing and ran a small grocery-
store in one of the western
suburbs. His mother would
keep reminding him, I remem-
ber, it was the halfpennies and
the like from selling kids’ rain-
bow-balls that put him through
high-school.
Peter was casual and would
say, “All right, Mum, all right,
Mum —you got ten-bob there?”
There were only five other
people there when we arrived
at the party and it was a warm
night and good for drinking.
Peter was a newspaperman and
it was a newspaper party, he
told me. A type of pyjama
party.
He threw me a pair of
shortie-pyjamas and led me into
a room to change. “This is a
beauty!” he said chuckling.
I took it he was referring to
the early stages of the party.
/ r 'VUTSiDE, a buxom brunette
in a transparent light-blue
negligee was reclining on the
arm of a divan. A young man
in a pair of bright-red bathing
trunks was deep in conversa-
tion with a girl who had short
blonde hair and wore only
pants and brassiere. Another
young man, good-looking with
a sweep of dark hair, was eat-
ing peanuts and drinking cheap
claret from a bottle.
The host, a huge German,
fair-haired and balding, was
attending his guests with a
saucepan of beer, asking:
“More soup? More soup? Who
wants more soup?”
“We’ll change right into our
party clothes and get into the
swing of things,” Peter said.
“Shouldn’t we have brought
girls?” I asked. ,
“The place'll be infested with
them later,” he said.
“This is a lovely party, Carl,”
the big brunette was saying to
the big German.
“Pretty good barty, eh!
Pretty much better later on, I
betcha.”
More guests had arrived
while we were changing. One
of them, Bob Landers, Peter
introduced as “a most tolerable
imbecile.” He had arrived
wearing only a plastic-raincoat
and shoes without sox, singing
“Yes, we have no pyjamas.”
He had a very loud laugh
that seemed to rise up from the
pit of his stomach. He would
stop singing intermittently to
laugh at himself.
With Landers were three
girls; nurses, Peter told me.
They appeared to be built for
heavy work, I thought. Also
with Landers was a young man
he described as “The Beast.”
His name did not belie his
appearance.
“This is a beauty,” Peter was
saying. He was ushering the
newly-arrived girls into a bed-
room to change.
“Whoa there! You give us
ideas,” Lander shouted on
sighting the brunette. He
laughed loudly and began sing-
ing again.
As Peter emerged from the
bedroom, Landers met him
with his fist clenched to form
an imaginary microphone.
“And now, folks, I’d like you
to meet none other than that
celebrated character ...”
“The name’s Magoo,” Peter
said. “And I'm very glad to
be here.” He was squinting, and
groping towards Landers.
“It’s a pleasure to have yon
on the show, Mister Magoo,”
Landers said, then laughed
loudly.
“In a moment we’ll introduce
to you the phantom tipster,
Seldom-seen Smith,” Landers
said. “But now back to the
studio.”
“More soup? Who wants
more soup?” the German
asked.
“I'd much rather drink
claret,” the young man nursing
the claret bottle said. He was
getting quite drunk.
The brunette poured herself
a long beer from the German’s
saucepan and drank half of it
in a gulp.
The German was in the
kitchen looking for cheese for
Landers.
“Never eat the stuff,” Lan-
ders said. “But they’re not
entitled to throw parties with-
out cheese, I always say.”
“But of course,” said Peter.
They all laughed loudly.
A girl alongside me asked:
“Are you a newspaper-
man, too?”
“No, I’m a friend of Peter’s,”
I told her.
“Oh,” she said and went on
eating potato-chips.
“She is an usherette at the
Star,” Peter told me. “Here
you will find a collection of
usherettes, barmaids, shopgirls,
nurses and even an occasional
newspaperwoman—they’re the
ones to be wary of.”
“Why?” 1 asked.
“Regular bitches,” he said.
“Have a listen to you!” a
young man alongside Peter
said. “You’re the best fence
for a bird in a newspaper-office
ever known.”
Peter introduced him as
Keith Prentice.
“His old man runs a pub by
the racecourse,” Peter said.
“And Keith is what is popu-
larly known as a tout.”
“Get away!” the young man
said. He was a clean-cut type,
tanned and fresh-looking.
“You think I had a few
chances today,” he said.
“I back a thing leads five
lengths on the turn and gets
done a nose. I back another
one comes from last and gets
done in a photo. You wouldn’t
believe it!”
“You*re a good player un-
lucky, Keith,” Landers said.
“You wouldn't know,” the
young man said. “You're too
crafty to put a quid on a horse.
Rather spend it on some low
sheila.”
Just then a radiantly pretty
young girl walked into the
room, unescorted. She was the
only girl not wearing what
Peter had described as party
clothes.
“More soup?” the German
asked, before recognising her.
He had ben sampling his own
soup rather freely.
“Ah, Maria! I didn't know
you was coming! Now I am
very huppy, very huppy.”
“Now 1 where’s this cynic
Peter?” the young man called
Keith asked. “Watch him melt
at the sight of this little news-
paper lady!”
(Continued on page 45)


OFFERING
FINANCIAL
GROWTH
WITH COMPLETE
SECURITY
a £467,000,000
Australian enterprise
for the benefit of
its policyholders
Chairman's Message to Public
Reporting record new business in 1959 to the 111th
Annual Meeting of members of the Australian Mutual
Provident Society, Mr. Cecil H. Hoskins said:
“The total new sums insured (excluding reinsurances)
amounted to almost £238,000,000. This easily
exceeded anything previously attained and again con-
stituted a record for an Australian life office.
“This is an extremely gratifying result, the more so
because it was achieved in a year in which intense
competition was encountered.
“This competition came from two sources. On the one
hand, a number of overseas-controlled life offices
entered the Australian life insurance market. In addi-
tion, the growth of many and varied savings and
investment media in the community stimulated com-
petition for the saver’s pound.
“Whilst I find it difficult to believe that all these media
are well based or performing a useful function, their
appearance has made it essential for our fieldmen to
emphasise those unique values of life insurance which
cannot be provided through any other savings channel.
“We believe that first things must come first and that
a man’s primary responsibility is to make adequate pro-
vision for the protection of his family and dependants,
and that adequate life insurance to this end should be
achieved before money is ventured elsewhere. Nor does
the function of life insurance end there; for the flexi-
bility, of modern life insurance policies enables them to
be used for education, retirement benefits, collateral
backing for mortgage finance and many other purposes.”
HIGHLIGHTS OF
YEAR’S OPERATIONS
ASSETS: Assets increased by £3B million
during the year to reach a total of £467
million.
BONUSES TO POLICYHOLDERS: Total reversion-
ary bonuses allotted to policyholders are
an all-time record at £29.544,000.
GROWTH: New business written amounted to
£238 million, creating a new record for
any Australian life office. Total insurances
in force, including bonuses, now stand at
more than £1,673 million.
INVESTMENTS: Investments are distributed
over a wide range of securities to provide
policyholders with maximum security and
improved interest rates.
With a growing portfolio of well-chosen
investments in leading Australian industries,
policyholders, through their interest in the
Society, have a direct stake in Australia's
future growth and prosperity.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Offices in all main cities throughout Australia and New Zealand and in London
OSIIC!


Nicklin Tries for a Second Term
Election In Queensland
On May 28 Queensland will have
a general election. As in 1957
there will he four parties in the
field, with the Government
parties—Country and Liberal —in close
alliance and the two Labor parties still
spitting venom at each other.
If Nicklin were a superstitious man
he would be approaching the election
with misgivings it is something like
half-a-century since a non-Labor Premier
successfully faced the Queensland elec-
tors. T. J. Ryan brought the first Labor
Government to office in 1915 and from
then until the debacle of 1957 Labor’s
reign was only once interrupted—by the
Moore Government of 1929-32.
Under the peculiar electoral set-up
gradually perfected there was no reason
why Labor Governments should not
have continued to rule Queensland until
doomsday, but three years ago squabbles
inside the party gave the Opposition the
chance to snatch a victory.
Outwardly the reason for the split was
the refusal of Premier Gair to obey the
order of the party’s central executive —
a body outside Parliament and with no
responsibility to the electors —to legis-
late immediately for three-weeks’ annual
leave for all employees in Queensland,
but no one really believed that that was
sufficient reason for wrecking the party.
The real quarrel went back much
further, and was part of the same schism
that split the Federal and Victorian
Labor parties asunder in 1955. This was
admitted by Duggan, the only one of
Gair's Cabinet to desert him when the
showdown came.
Mutual Compliments
T'Vuggan said when he took over the
leadership of what was left of the
A.L.P. Gair and his supporters had
meantime formed the Queensland Labor
party —that in the eyes of Labor Gair
reached “the point of no return” when,
with Treasurer Walsh, he walked out of
the 1955 conference in Hobart.
Duggan claimed that at that moment
Gair had walked out of the Labor
Movement “in spirit” and that the final
split was merely a logical sequel. He
did not explain why he himself had
taken over two years to proclaim this
discovery, acting in the meantime as
Gair’s trusted deputy and speaking and
voting in support of numerous measures
which after his break with Gair he de-
nounced as scandalous and iniquitous.
Gair’s comment on Duggan was that
he “ran with the hare and hunted with
the dog and had two-bob each way.”
At the 1957 election the A.L.P. and
Q.L.P. campaigned against each other
more bitterly than against the Opposi-
tion who, in contrast, were able to lump
both Labor factions together as a party
which had hung- on to power for years
“entrenched behind unassailable barri-
cades of blatantly-rigged electoral boun-
daries and backed by an auxiliary force
of ghostly voters.”
When the dust cleared away both
Labor parties had lost seats to the
Country party and Liberals ; the Q.L.P.
had also lost some to the A.L.P. Party-
strengths in the new Parliament were: —-
Country party, 24 ; Liberals, 18 ; A.L.P.,
20 ; Q.L.P., 11 ; Independents, 2 ; so
that the Nicklin-Morris coalition had an
overall majority of nine.
By-elections during the past three years
have left those figures unchanged, though
one of them enabled Duggan, who, with
his Deputy-leader, was defeated at the
general election, to re-enter the House
and resume command of the A.L.P.
New Brooms
TPhe Nicklin-Morris Government came
into office with the handicap that
owing to Labor’s long tenure of the
Treasury benches its members were com-
pletely without experience of the admin-
istrative machine. On the other hand
they had the advantage that they had
no past mistakes to cover-up and no
misjudgments to perpetuate.
In other words the new Government
had both the advantages and the dis-
advantages that go with a clean slate.
Its achievements during its first term
may not have been spectacular, but it
has at least achieved its main purpose
of giving Queensland a stable Govern-
ment and promoting an atmosphere more
likely to attract overseas investment than
that prevailing under recent Labor
Governments.
It pushed on with selected develop-
mental works from among those begun
by the Gairs and completed the Tinaroo
Falls dam, which will irrigate a large
area on the Atherton Tableland, a year
ahead of schedule and with considerable
saving on the estimated cost. In his
policy-speech a, fortnight ago Nicklin
was able to claim that 123 new fac-
tories had been established in the State
within the past 12 months and to point
to the beginning of the work of rebuild-
ing the Mt. Isa railway, consequent on
securing a loan of £2O million from the
Commonwealth Government. He was
able to show an agreement signed with
the aluminium corporation Comalco for
the development of Weipa, with its
tremendous potentialities.
Land Policy
T>robably the most important legisla-
tion of the Nicklin-Morris Govern-
ment has been the new Lands Act passed
towards the end of last year. The essence
of Nicklin's land-policy is closer settle-
ment, but with the proviso that all new
land settlement must be in economic-
sized areas so as to give the new settler
a reasonable prospect of success.
Having attained office through a Labor
split which, under the old electoral set-
up, was their only chance of doing so,
it would have been suicidal for the
Government parties not to order a review
of the existing electoral map. They had,
indeed, said on the hustings that this
would be done. An electoral-boundaries
commission was appointed and its recom-
mendations adopted. The individual con-
tests on May 28 will be fought on very
different territories from last time.
The main result of the redistribution
is that the number of metropolitan seats
has been increased from 24 to 28, and
the number of country seats reduced
from 51 to 50; but the change is much
more far-reaching than would appear
from those figures.
City boundaries have been fairly
drastically redrawn a very necessary
operation, as the uneven growth of popu-
lation had caused great disparities in the
voting-strengths of the electorates. At
one extreme when the polls closed for
the 1957 election was Mt. Gravatt, with
28,289 electors ; at the other were Bris-
bane with 8023, and South Brisbane
(held by Premier Gair) with 8826. In
1956 the losing candidate (a Liberal) in
Mt. Gravatt scored more votes than the
tally of all candidates in several other
metropolitan seats.
Rural Seats
T>oundaries of country electorates have
" also been redrawn, putting an end
to the old set-up under which Labor
Governments, although dominated by
the Brisbane Trades Hall, drew their Par-
liamentary strength from pockets of
Labor voters in 23 tiny electorates in
the west and north of the State. At one
time 20 of these so-called rural seats
were held by Labor men pledged to a
policy determined by the industrial wing.
Under redistribution five city seats
have disappeared and nine new ones are
on the map; in the country 17 elec-
torates have vanished and 16 new ones
have emerged. In many cases the change
merely amounts to a renaming of pro-
vincial city electorates, with slight boun-
dary adjustments ; in others the change
is fundamental.
Obviously the changes enhance the
chances of the Government parties; their
avowed purpose was to take away some
of the advantages that previous redistri-
butions had given Labor. No change
has been made in the method of count-
ing votes —first-past-the-post will still
win the seat. Preferential voting was
suggested, but the Country party
wouldn’t hear of it. This may be short-
sighted policy, but with two Labor
parties in the field the old system will
at least work for the Government this
time, as it did in 1957. Duggan and
Gair are speaking optimistically of their
chances, but it is obvious that Gair has
no chance at all of forming a Govern-
ment and Duggan not much more.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
73 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN FUIiLIC
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Caulfield-in-the-wet
Racing writers and broad-
casters will not easily forget
last Saturday's programme at
Caulfield. Misty rain made
it a matter of guesswork to
distinguish any but the leading
horses, and riders came back
to scale caked with mud.
Time for the mile-and-a-half
Heroic Handicap gives a good
indication of the state of
things: it took Dow Street
2.41.5 to run the distance,
against the track-record of
2.26 9/10ths set by Tulloch in
his 1957 Caulfield Cup. It
was surprising to see Dow
Street run home strongly—
he had not previously given
much sign of getting a dis-
tance. A four-year-old bay
gelding by Wayside Inn
(imp.) from the imported mare
Rising Dough by Pylon II
from Patisserie, he won a race
at Doomben last winter.
Saturday’s win paid expenses
for another "trip north, and
he’s likely to have a shot at
the Brisbane Cup, in which,
with only 7.4, his trainer, J.
McMahon, who trained his
first winner in 1914, believes
he will run well.
• • • •
Tranquil Glow’s run in the
Gippsland Steeple was so
extraordinarily good that it
well deserved to be better
rewarded. This beautifully-
bred six-year-old gelding —by
Helios (imp.) from Tranquil
Star —carried 11.11 ; almost an
impossible task in the condi-
tions. Yet he made all the
running over the last half-
mile, and was not caught until
the last half-furlong, where
Grand Reward, with 481 b.
less, ran past him. Grand
Reward took 3.57 f tQ run the
two miles; record for the
steeple two-miles at Caulfield,
shared by Tranquil Glow and
Pedro’s Pride, is 3.415/10ths.
Grand Reward had not pre-
viously scored over jumps, but
he’s now in the hands of Alec
Fullarton, for whom every-
thing is going right, having won
five steeplechases in succes-
sion, with Mudeet, Tinto and
Grand Reward. A six-year-
old gelding by Hororata
(winner of the Caulfield
Guineas in 1947) from Last
Bud, Grand Reward is raced
by Moonee Valley committee-
man Bill Graham in part-
nership with Brian Osborne,
secretary of the Tasmanian
Racing Club.
Jack Purtell has experienced
a very lean time lately—only
two winners from his last 46
rides, both successes on Woam-
bra, a three-year-old gelding
by Faux Tirage (imp.) from
Signify. Trainer Phil Burke
thought the gelding was averse
to heavy going, but in the six-
furlongs Lonsdale Stakes he
“You said my Number Seven Was an outsider—yet
that fool jockey had him on the rails all the race!"
handled the conditions well,
never looking like being caught
in the run home. Woambra
has now won at three of his
last four starts, and owner
J. P. Stratton thinks he’s worth
putting away for the better-
class races in the spring,
• • • ■
Regal Copy will be promin-
en{ on ear iy charts for the
Nationals. In the spring of
f a st y ear the a ged Carbon Copy
gelding, who had shown some
promise as a hurdler, was
sw jt c hed to steeplechasing. He
did not have much success over
tbe f enceSs an d following a
six-months’ spell came back to
h ur d]ing at Pakenham last
Wednesday. He won the
Pakenham Hurd]e easily, but
so comfortablv as the Fis .
CQm Hurdle at c aulfield ]ast
Saturd in which he t there
on the bjt by J 5 lengths . He
muc d h W*™ th *
jf “hfs \ra7n°er Roy
P , ~ . ’. ,
McLaren, asked him to win the
jumping double,
Trainer Finn McKay hadn’t
prepared a winner for two
years until Lady Novak stuck
her nose between Smoke View
and Lady Feisal at the finish
of the seven-furlongs La Trobe
Stakes (two-year-old fillies).
The winner is by the French-
bred sire Tournai, who was
imported to Australia as a
yearling but did not race.
Tournai’s sire, Tourbillon, won
the French Derby, among other
good races, and Lis dam,
Gandara, was also a good per-
former. Lady Novak’s dam is
Miracle by Revelation. It was
the filly’s first win, and from
her strong finish it seems clear
she will appreciate racing aver
a bit of ground.
• • • •
There has been a good deal
of speculation in Melbourne
racing-circles about the con-
ditions the V.R.C. will impose
for the- Black and White Pro-
vincial Cup at its Centenary
Melbourne Cup meeting. The
prizemoney for the race will
be £3OOO, which is more money
than the type of horse eligible
would normally win in its
career, and the V.R.C. will cer-
tainly receive ten times as
many nominations as it can
accommodate. When the entries
are in. the race is likely' to take
the shape of an Invitation
event, and it is most likely that
five “country champions” from
each State will be invited to
compete for the rich prize.
* * *
Sydney Form
Fine And Dandy beat a
moderate sprint line-up in the
Flying at Tattersall’s Rand-
wick meeting, starting at the
sort of price you’d expect,
threes-on. Altogether it was
a rough day for the bag-
swingers, with six favorites
getting home on a seven-event
programme. Fine And Dandy
has now won at eight of his
nine starts. At first run he
was beaten by his stablemate
Front Cover in the A.J.C.
Breeders’ Plate, but in that
he was clearly unlucky. He
is now set for the Stradbroke,
in which his 8.8 seems a cosy
weight for such a good one.
On Saturday he carried 8.13,
and as it was his first outing
since last June he seems
bound to benefit from the
run. He’s in the good hands
of Harry Plant.
• • • •
Three-year-old Polo Prince
won the main Tattersall’s
event, the James Barnes Plate,
named afer a former chair-
man of the club. Raced by
Mrs. A. Barnes and W. J.
Bradshaw, the Polo was
backed from 9 to 2 to 2 to 1,
and Sellwood had to manoeuvre
out of a pocket in the final
stages. The three-year-old
gives excellent promise as a
middle-distance horse, and he
I may be taken to Brisbane for
the Doomben Cup (about 11
furlongs) in July, an ideal race
for him. Compass was a close
second and Tranquilette third,
but there could be no excuses
for their defeat.
Winner of the Three-and-
four-year-okk Handicap, Sura-
bey is something of a bush
champion, and as well her
seven wins in a row include
two at Warwick Farm.
Another of the day’s favorites
on Saturday, she easily beat
Little Loveli and Girvan.
Though My Melodee’s run
was nothing to get excited
over, she could soon win.
There was fair backing for
her.
• •: • •
Mulley copped it hot from


cM&MemM'A cA'is/e -
Me T/A'/A’J (//toiee
'A
Wherever you travel you will find "White
Label" Dewar's Scotch Whisky.
This is the Scotch which has earned the
world-wide reputation for unvarying excel-
lence and distinctive character.
m
is.
ffi |^^o|pP'||-:^
5
_ -V^'.'Nr^-
Wbite Label’
Di**#sTwt Scotch Wwyt*
«ohn Dewar & Sons t-
v * : is.- p scotunp
BIG BEN, LONDON. Photo: British Travel Association.
“White Label
Dewars
Scotch Whisky
- it never varies
Guaranteed wholly distilled, matured and blended in Scotland.
CWIII
some of the crowd after finish-
ing second on odds -on
favorite Beau Tirage in the
Two-year-old, but actually he
rode a particularly good race.
He had Beau Tirage in front
near the end, but the gelding
just couldn’t see the mile right
out, and was fairly outstayed
by Wire Service, whose per-
formance was a quick improve-
ment on his prior outing,
Scorport (third) indicated
chances of an early win.
Globetrotter (imp.), sire of
Wire Service, is a son of
Hyperion, but to date hasn't
had the success expected at
the stud, though he has sired
a number of winners.
....
T c i w „
Owner J. S. Gale has a
potential staying filly m Prin-
c^ ss Delville, whose sire, Del-
ville Wood (imp.), has a first-
rate record of progeny capable
of winning the longest distance-
races in the land. Winner of
the Tatt.’s Juvenile Stakes for
fillies, Princess Delville is from
The Duchess, a sister to Aristo-
crat, whose wins included the
A.J.C. St. Leger and other
distance weight-for-age races
at Randwick.
• • • •
On successive Saturdays
Black Hawk has won an 11-
furlongs Maiden at Warwick
Farm and a 10-furlongs Novice
at Randwick, and going by his
finishing bursts on each occa-
sion the four-year-old could be
one of the best of stayers when
spring comes round. Trained
at Randwick by Cec Ryan for
L. and J. Steen, he’s by Able
Seaman (imp.) from Black
Silk. His sire, who has had
many winners in New Zealand,
had wins in England at up to
a mile-and-a-half. Though the
same owners’ Golden Seaman
had good support for the
Welter, he handed-out a poorish
run, but at the weights he’s
now getting he could soon
show improved form. Winning
the Welter by a short head
from Manrego, with Edspell
third, Exemption completed
the rout of books.
“At his best he would be
much too good for this batch,’"
said one of the part-owners of
Flying Kurana prior to the
six-furlongs Canterbury Park
Bexley Handicap, run under
Welter conditions at the mid-
week meeting. Trained at Rose-
hill by Jack Daniels and raced
by Mrs. Daniels in partner-
ship with Mrs. E. B. Walker,
the five-year-old ' Newton
Wonder gelding hadn’t won
for the best part of a year, but
he duly proved too good for
pacemaker Merry Inn and dis-
appointing favorite New Stand.
He had been smart enough as
a youngster, his wins having
included the A.J.C. Breeders’
Plate at his first outing in
public, and in that he broke
one-minute for the five fur-
longs. If he has struck that
sort of form again—well,
good luck to the loyal ladies.
* * *
Brisbane interest now of
course centres on the Strad-
broke and Brisbane Cup
double, to be run early next
month. At last Saturday’s
Eagle Farm meeting the New
Zealand - bred Drumcondra,
racing in excellent form, had
an easy task in the May Handi-
cap (about 11 furlongs), beat-
ing Countwood and Intrigued
Drumcondra carried 7.11, and
in the Cup has 7.6, a handy im-
post for a close relative of
Lancaster, whose nine wins in-
cluded this Cup and other races
at two miles. Drumcondra is
a four-year-old gelding by
Balloch (imp.) from Nightray
by Nightly from Lady Eka by
Kiosk. Nightray won five
races, including the Egmont
N.Z. Cup.
* * *
The Trofs
In the fastest time ever
recorded by a three-year-old
pacer at Harold Park, New
Zealander Sun Chief beat Vic-
torian and South Australian
Derby winner Arabian and
country three-year-old Cham-
pion Sky Main in the second
heat of the N.S.W. Pacers’
Derby last Friday night.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — Is Divorce.
TO BERNARD THOMAS MILLER late
of 342 Moore Park Road Paddington.
—TAKE NOTICE that FLORA
KATHERINE MILLER ha« filed Petition
for Divorce No. 495 of 1960 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for 3 years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Mint Build-
ing Macquarie Street Sydney by the 26th
July 1960 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from WM.
PARKINSON & CO., Solicitors, of 77
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD CLARENCE BYRNE late
of Cootamundra. —TAKE NOTICE that
THELMA JOYCE BYRNE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1394 of 1960
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for 3 years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Registry
Mint Building Macquarie Street Syd-
ney by the 27th day of July, 1960, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from E. G. SAYEGH, Solicitor,
133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price NINEPENCE ONLY
each week.
ft
■M
Arabian looked all over a win-
ner when he began smartly
and was still bowling along a
length in front of Sun Chief
as they rounded the bend for
home, but, though he’d run
one-wide throughout, Sun Chief
showed amazing stamina to
get there by three-quarters of
a length in 3min. 6fsec. (mile-
rate 2.6 f), that being if sec.
faster than the race-record
established by fellow-Enzedder
Dignus in the 1957 N.S.W.
Pacers’ Derby. In winning the
first heat'from Smooth Hano-
ver and Great Cheer, Malyan-
dry's Pride equalled Dignus’s
record (3.7 f), after losing a
few lengths at the start. Great
Cheer also suffered interference
at the start and did well to get
within a length of the winner.
The six placegetters, with Bay
Albion, Iwunda, Alternative
and Negro Dancer, should pro-
vide a thrilling race in the
£4OOO final this coming Friday
night.
Other Sports
Turning-on some solid
football, the touring All Blacks
performed the incidental good
service of deflating home-
front superlatives by routing
N.S.W. 27-n/I at Sydney Sports
Ground on Saturday. A hefty
and speedy pack was mainly
responsible. The Enzedders’
“seconds” really rubbed the
deflating in by trouncing
Queensland 32-3. Much the
same could be said of the
League at the adjacent Cricket
Ground, where Sydney Firsts
downed Cquntry 20-2.
* *
“Lai”: After the first few
V.F.L. rounds a drastic change
has come over the scene.
Footscray and Geelong, the
two bottom sides in 1959, have
emerged as strong contenders
for the premiership. Mel-
bourne, although not playing
with the usual finesse, proved
still very strong by defeating
South Melbourne by 64
points, while Essendon and
Collingwood have maintained
their positions near the top.
Carlton, Fitzroy, North Mel-
bourne, Hawthorn and St.
“ He's at the top of his tricky form tonight!"
Kilda have all slipped. South
Melbourne started brightly, but
quickly faded; Richmond’s
play has been uninspiring. At
this stage the tipping for final
four is Melbourne, Essendon,
Collingwood, with Footscray,
Geelong and perhaps Carlton
vying for fourth place.
* * *
“Selja”: Despite losses to
Rugby League of quite a few
top-liners (five former Rugby
Union internationals, includ-
ing remarkable fullback Pierre
Lacaze, are in this year’s
French Rugby League team
to Australia), French Rugby
Union is still very strong. A
couple of weeks back France
beat England 26-6 in the final
match of the European cham-
pionship series; on series
points England finished level,
so they become joint title-
holders. In 1958 France
astounded by becoming the
first country ever to win an
international series against
South Africa in South Africa
—in a two-game series it drew
the first Test 3-3 and won the
second 9-5, Lacaze being one
of the heroes of the second
game, kicking a penalty-goal
and a field-goal. France is to
tour New Zealand in 1961,
and at time of writing is down
to play only one game in
Australia, a figure Australian
officials should surely try to
have increased.
“E. 13”: Hoad and Rosewall
defeated Trabert and Olmedo
2-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 to win the
final of the world indoor pro.-
tennis doubles championship
played at Melbourne Olympic
Pool. Hoad and Rosewall
thrilled the 2500 gallery with
their clean stroke-play, and
they combined far better as a
team than the two Americans.
Both victors collected £6OO
each. It was the first time the
famous old amateur combina-
tion had played together since
winning a professional world
title at Wembley Stadium
(Eng.) in 1957.
* * *
“Tennisite”: Put this young
man’s name down as the Lew
Hoad of tomorrow. The name,
Rodney Brent, 17, of New-
castle (N.S.W.). He was kept
wrapped-up in younger years
so that tennis would not inter-
fere with his schooling. Now
he’s emerging, and he already
has started to topple the stars,
just as Hoad did. Recently he
won junior New South Wales
titles, followed them with junior
wins in the Australian hard-
court championships, causing
many upsets amongst seeded
stars. He plays the same type
of dashing game as Hoad —a
fierce service, unlocked wrist
which allows the whippy stroke,
and extraordinary speed and
endurance, yes, watch for this
boy in the future. Kramer
knows about him, and that’s
causing amateur officials some
worry. '
* * *
“Barooma”: Add one more
—a very late selection —to that
interesting list of currently
world - touring cricketing Old
Collegians:
C. A. Johnston: Old Maitland
High School; left-hand opening-
batsman. In N.S.W. 2nd XI;
captain Northern N.S.W. v.
M.C.C. during 1946-47 tour; also
combined N.S.W. Country XL
Has scored 25 centuries in first-
grade cricket. President of Mait-
land District Cricket Association
and Hunter Valley Cricket Council.
* * *
“Lyle”: Surprising what
time some people have on
their hands! Instance Michael
Shaw, of Innisfail, Buddy
McGrath, of Cairns, Larry
Perrett, of Nanango, and Rex
Joyner, of Toowoomba, the
four Queensland University
students who have broken the
world's long-playing bridge
record. They played more
than 80 hours continuously,
beating the previous record of
79 hours established by four
Michigan Uni. students. As
with some 1.-p. records listened
to, the playing got a bit
ragged towards the end, and
they were 47 minutes getting
through a rubber —estimated
at 7 minutes bridge and 240
yawns, the spectator contri-
buting the 200.
* * *
“Oarsman”: Though rowing
doesn’t get much into the lime-
light our oarsmen have the
best record among our Olympic
Games reps. Twelve scullers
have represented Australia in
the Olympics, winning three
gold, two silver and two bronze
medals, and we can expect
another gold medal when
Stuart MacKenzie goes into
action at Rome. On sheer
enthusiasm our double-sculls
pair, Kevin Webb and lan
Tutty, also deserve a win.
Their time in winning selection
has only twice been beaten —
by Russia and by the U.S. in
heats at the 1956 Olympics.
And Webb and Tutty were in
an old, heavy boat. They
think enough of their prospects
to have commissioned George
Towns (Sydney) to build them
a new boat which will be about
501 b. lighter than anything
built to date anywhere.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HUNGARY NOW
on aspects of life in
Hungary now, more than
three years after the crushing
of the revolution, come from
two prominent overseas writers
—English historian A. J. P.
Taylor, writing in London
“New Statesman” after a short
visit to Hungary; and Hun-
garian journalist Paul Ignotus,
currently head of the Hun-
garian W r i t e rs’ Association
Abroad (London), writing in
the magazine “Problems of
Communism”:
Political Attitudes
Taylor: I was constantly told
on every subject that came up:
“Things are much better than
before 1956.” There is more
food and more academic free-
dom. There are no arbitrary
arrests, no knock at the door
in the night. Most of those
sentenced to prison in 1956
have just been released under
an amnesty. The Communist
Government is still there, out-
wardly monolithic, but it rules
without fuss. It does not ask
to be loved or admired, only to
be left alone while it tries to
do its best. This is dictatorship
with a difference —the differ-
ence being that the Communists
have heeded the warning of
1956 and now, like the bosses
of old, are anxious to do every-
thing for the masses except get
off their backs.
Ignotus: The gulf between
the Russian-imposed regime
and the bulk of the Hungarian
population is as wide as ever.
But there is one thing about
which the people see eye to eye
with their rulers: in one way
or another, all would like life
to become “normal.” The
Government is apparently
haunted by the memory of
1956 and spares no effort to
prevent a rebirth of the 1956
spirit, oscillating between tac-
tics of greater leniency and ad-
ministrative repression.
The people, on the other
hand, are simply tired of
dramatic events, disappointed
with frustrated hopes, and
apathetic about politics. Their
major concern has become
making money, however pos-
sible, and enjoying the modest
pleasures afforded by the return
to a comparatively normal
existence.
Living-standards x
Taylor: The solid, unmistak-
able fact is that Hungarians are
now pretty well-off. They have
enough to eat—indeed, more
than enough for our contem-
porary English appetites. This
is not a judgment based only
on meals in restaurants, where
I was always worrying about
my figure. The restaurants are
crowded, not only in Budapest,
but in provincial towns. At
the weekends, family parties
dine out, the small children
running up and down the aisles
as tiresomely as they do else-
where. But I also went through
the covered food-market in
Budapest on my own; and the
show had certainly not been
put on for my benefit. I have
never seen a greater display,
particularly of meat and salami.
There was a crush of people
round every stall; and they had
come to buy, not to look.
Ignotus: Living - conditions
have unquestionably improved,
though it is hard to measure
the degree of improvement.
Statistics, if not all completely
faked, are so manipulated to
fit propaganda-needs that it is
impossible to rely on them.
Everyone moving about in
the towns and villages agrees,
however, that some modest
degree of steady improvement
has been noticeable ever since
the consolidation of the regime.
In towns this is evidenced most
clearly by the comparatively
greater choice of commodities
in, shop-windows (although
more often than not of very
“AFTER ALL, HONORABLE MEMBERS WILL AGREE
I’M PROPERLY DRESSED FOR THE DISARMAMENT
CONFERENCE ..."
(Cartoonist Cummings, in London “Daily Express,” offers yet
another comment on the British Government’s scrapping of the
Blue Streak missile.)
poor quality) and by the large
crowds patronising restaurants,
cafe-espressos, and the movie-
theatres. Every chance is
granted to the public to be as
“normal” in leisure-pursuits as
possible
The main asset of the present
regime seems to be that people,
particularly in economic deals,
do not observe its regulations.
The authorities nonchalantly
tolerate corruption in order to
keep things going in a “nor-
mal” way. The data about in-
creased turnovers in shops and
cafes may be correct; but such
spending certainly does not
tally with the far more modest
reports of increase in legally-
acquired incomes.
What do people live on?
“On what they get from abroad
and on what they pinch,” a
visitor told me. Indeed, except
for the two highly-paid elites
—the professional intelligent-
sia, ranging from opera-singers
to surgeons and plant managers,
and the high-level bureaucracy
of party secretaries, Cabinet
Ministers and security-chiefs—
no one could possibly make
ends meet without being helped
either by the capitalist West or
by home-made corruption.
It is part of the lack of
“dogmatism” practiced by the
Kadar regime to fill high posts
with persons previously labelled
as “typically bourgeois racket-
eers,” encouraging them to
maintain trade-links with the
West and to get on as good
terms as possible with Western
industrialists.
On the State and collective
farms as well as shops and
factories, practically everybody
is out for extra-legal gain
through embezzlement, pilfer-'
ing and the like. Now and
then there are show-trials to
prove the necessity of vigilance
against corruption, but most
peoole risk arrest without
hesitation.
Repression
Taylor: The Communist
party itself is smaller than
before 1956. Many people left
then and did not rejoin. They
have not suffered for this; and
most of them have stayed out
to look after their own affairs;
not from political disagreement.
There are stories in the West
that young men are still being
hanged for their activities. I
could not, of course, get any
information about this, though
I inquired on every possible
occasion.
One telling point was made
to me —again, not always by
Communists. Previously it al-
ways became known when
somebody had been arrested.


Jutiffi in the
Juilurc
Food is still the main material problem in the
making of a better world. Reminder of that comes
from the action of the United Nations in launching
a “Freedom From Hunger” campaign, to extend
through this year to 1965.
- Fifteen years after the establishment of the U.N.
Food and Agricultural Organisation in an effort
to banish hunger, the end of that human goal is
not in sight.
And when we turn to the question that will
demand an inevitable answer—who is to provide
the food?—it comes down to a matter of resources.
Satisfaction of the world’s needs in food is
inseparable from the availability of land to yield it.
The international formula for determining
“standard farm land” is based on the climatic
suitability of land for agriculture. On that scale,
Australia ranks high. Taking the big beef potential
of our drier lands into account, our rating as a
food-producing country is higher still.
So, however faithfully we face the future, there
is no escaping a responsibility which stretches out
beyond our mere capacity to do well for ourselves
in the supplying of home and export markets.
The rise in Australian production over the next
few years will have to be spectacular to pace the
economy and to match the growth in population.
It will call for the use of every acre that will produce
a crop or sustain a beast; for the construction of
more access roads, the larger storing of water, the
wider use of mechanisation in rural industry.
In union with this—and here is a central point
of vision to return to at this time of diverse
expansion—we should keep clearly in sight
Australia’s role as a major contributor to humanity’s
total requirements in food.
Against the current factors of costs and market
opportunities is to be set the living truth that the
world remains a hungry place for hundreds of
millions; that every day brings into it one hundred
and twenty thousand extra humans to be clothed
and sheltered —and fed..
y
Now no one had heard of a
single case where a known in-
dividual had been hanged.
‘Hangings? We have never
heard of them.’ I think the
answer was honest, though not
of course conclusive.
Ignotus: The saddest aspect
of the anti-revisionist night-
mare is the continued imprison-
ment of leading authors,
scholars and journalists as well
as of masses of nameless youth,
mainly former students and
workers. During the last half
of 1959 numerous rumors
reached other countries of
executions either carried out or
to take place in Hungary; many
of these reports remain un-
substantiated, but at least eight
proved to be true. As long as
the present system of security
is in force it would be futile to
estimate their number. x
Summing-up
Taylor: Joan Robinson
summed-up our impressions:
“Too good to be true.” A Hun .
garian friend replied: “It is
true all the same.” Which was
right? 1 am at a loss for an
answer. Conditions in Hun-
gary were certainly much better
than I expected them to be.
But whether they are all that
they are claimed to be I just
could not make out. I fear
that my Hungarian friends will
call this “bourgeois objectiv-
ism.”
Ignotus: Toward the regime,
at any rate, the Hungarians’
state of mind is likely to remain
as it has been described in this
paper—an admixture of con-
tempt and hatred tempered by
apathy aqd indifference —unless
and until repression gives way
to a genuine effort to pacify
the nation.
Outer-space Controls
IN the “New York Times,”
Thomas J. Hamilton notes
that although there are ele-
ments of hope, however slim,
that the Summit discussions
of Berlin, disarmament and
nuclear tests might result in
agreements, a “discouraging
factor in the international
situation is the fact that the
Soviet Union, which inaugu-
rated the space-age in October,
1958, still seems to be un-
willing to permit any sort of
outer-space control, or even
any negotiations”:
“In view of the control
problem, there are reasons to
fear that the attempt to regu-
late outer-space vehicles will
repeat the dismal history of
the atomic negotiations.
“If no agreement to pro-
hibit nuclear tests can be
reached, it is to be feared that
Communist China, West Ger-
many and numerous other
countries will become nuclear
Powers sooner or later.
Already the only deterrent to
the use of nuclear weapons is
fear of mutual reprisals and
the same situation may pre-
vail with outer-space weapons.
“There are still only two
space Powers, and the evi-
dence suggests that neither has
yet found a dependable method
of preventing the destruction
of outer-space vehicles when
they return to the earth's
atmosphere. However, time is
beginning to run out. Once
the re-entry problem is solved-
it may be too late to establish
any thought of outer-space
regulation, and the earth may
be brought that much closer
to destruction.
“Although the present Rus-
sian attitude offers little
encouragement, the outer-
space problem is fundamental
for survival, and a solution
deserves a much higher
priority than it has been given
in Washington or at the
United Nations.”
Ghana's Election
Commenting on the election,
by a large majority, of
Dr. Nkrumah as first Presi-
dent of Ghana, London “Daily
Telegraph” notes that “it can
now scarcely be questioned
that his supporters have made
needlessly sure of this cer-
tainty by intimidating oppp-
nents, if not actually rigging
the poll.
“Under the republican Con-
stitution also adopted at this
plebiscite, he will rule the
country for the next five years
unhampered by the checks
and balances which mature
democracies devise for their
elected leaders. This swift
emergence of an authoritarian
pattern of government in a
State which gained its inde-
pendence under the happiest
auspices may distress the
naive, but it should not be
surprising.
“We ought rather to appre-
ciate the dilemma of the
Ghanaians—which is, or will
be; that of other emergent
African peoples. Attaining
independence in the name of
democracy, they have a natural
aspiration to adopt its forms ;
but the conditions which would
make it a workable system of
government do not yet exist.
These are the fruit of time:
the growth in a maturing State
of professional, commercial


Start the day right!
Ba?
SH*
C
and social interests whose inter-
dependence precludes the
monopoly of power.
“Dr. Nkrumah’s hi g 11-
handed methods are resented
by his rivals for power and
justly condemned by the fair-
minded elsewhere —but his
popularity shows that they do
not outrage the mass of his
fellow-countrymen.
“To recognise this is to
understand also the dilemma
of white minorities in terri-
tories moving- towards inde-
pendence. If democracy in a
multi-racial society is likely to
follow the Ghana pattern, it
would not be recognisable as
the genuine or even as a toler-
able article in Westminster.
Nobody should expect an
exact replica of the British
system, but the necessity of
something nearer to the
British spirit is in itself an
argument for slow if steady
Constitutional development.”
Berlin Answers
the eve of the Summit
Conference, at which the
future status of West Berlin
could be decided between East
and West, Sebastian Haffner,
London “Observer’s” resi-
dent correspondent in that
city, answered some questions
put to him by the London
staff of his paper:
“What is the mood of West
Germany ? For a long time
we have been told it is com-
fortable, materialist, selfish,
pacifist, against all adventures,
lacking in confidence, not even
very interested in the reunion
of Germany. Is this still true
or is the mood slowly
changing ?”
“It is still surprisingly true.
Among the politically-minded,
of course, the mood is no
longer as placid as it used to
be —rather a little uneasy,
even a little glum. They know
that they are at the moment
being subject to a drumfire of
world-wide denunciation, for
which every resource of Com-
munist and Communist-
influenced propaganda is em-
ployed. They sense that this
Under the heading “Half Measures” a cartoonist in the
Frankfurter “Allgemeine” (Germany) asks: “Is Algeria
next for partition?”
propaganda is having its effect,
and that British —and perhaps
also American —feelings for
West Germany are no longer
what they were a few years
ago. They are worried, but
remain passive. They keep
their fingers crossed and hope
for the best. No real sign of
a nationalist revival yet.
“As far as the big non-
political majority is concerned,
almost nothing of all this has
yet sunk in, and people just
continue to enjoy their
regained prosperity and
respectability, their supposed
holiday from history, their
chromium-plated idyll, and
hope that it may last for ever.
“In so far as there is a
visible reaction against this
still predominant happy philis-
tine complacency, it v comes
from the intellectual and
literary Left and not from the
Right. A Left-wing radical
‘non - conformism,’ neither
Communist nor Social Demo-
cratic, but anti-Governmental,
contemptuous of the ‘econo-
mic miracle,’ nationally self-
critical to the point of some-
times being anti-German,
calling for a belated repent-
ance of Nazi sins and some-
times for a belated prosecu-
tion of former Nazis —this has
become a growing force in
West German public opinion
over the last three years or
so. It forms the mainstream
of the reviving German
literature, has strong points in
the universities, in the Protest-
ant Church, in the press, and
has established a complete
hold on German television.
Whether it will in its turn
bring about a Right-wing re-
action (of which the swastika-
daubings around the New
Year ,may have been an in-
articulate premonition) is too
early to say.
“A word about reunion.
No German will ever admit
that he does not passionately
care about it, and a substan-
tial minority; especially in
Protestant Northern Germany,
really does passionately care.
But pessimism about reunion
in the foreseeable future has
been growing, and sometimes
this pessimism is hard to dis-
tinguish from resignation.
“Still, this is a subject about
which only a fool would dog-
matise. Nine out of 10 Ger-
mans, in cold blood, reject
the idea of a war for reunion
with genuine horror. But
how they would react if one
day there were a Hungary in
East Germany 1 would not
dare to say.”
“Do West Germans still
believe in a united Western
Europe or not ?”
“Yes and no. As a popular
political movement, European
federalism in Germany is far
weaker than it was 10 years
ago. At the same time the
hew friendship with France
and the new intimacy with
Western Europe in general are
taken for granted ; anti-French
resentments are noL only dead
but are regarded as positively
quaint, like Victorian interior-
decoration, and masses of
Germans now habitually take
their holidays in France and
Italy without a conscious feel-
ing of going ‘abroad.’
“The idea that Germany
could ever be at war again
with her Western European
neighbors has dropped right
out of existence. Perhaps it
would be truest to say that
West Germans today —mis-
takenly—regard and treat
West European unity as if it
were an accompilshed fact,
something to be enjoyed rather
than something still to be
achieved.”
Allies into Space
Supporting the proposal that
Britain should invite Ger-
many and France to join with
her in a space - programme,
London “Daily Mail” notes
that there are sound practical
'reasons for the scheme, and
“the first of these is financial”:
“This is an expensive enter-
prise, and if the cost can be
shared so much the better.
There are no military secrets
to be given away, and most of
the prestige was snatched by
the two giants long ago.
“Britain has the launcher
and the testing-ground, while
France and Germany have
neither. The launcher is Blue
Streak, and the range, which is
the finest in the world and the
pride of Australia, is at
Woomera. To hire-out these
facilities would be good busi-
ness for us—like the American
bases in Britain, which bring in
£6O million a year.
“But there are other reasons.
In a few years satellites orbit-
ing the earth will transform
many aspects of life as we
know it now, and we [Britain]
must not lag behind.
“Communications will be
revolutionised —a development
of supreme importance to this
country as the centre of a
world-wide Commonwealth.
“The day is coming when
the messages of. an entire
nation, now carried by cable,


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £89,000,000 sterling
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
radio or telephone, will be
channelled upwards to a space-
vessel which will transmit them
anywhere else. This system
will be much more rapid than
the existing one and, since it
will abolish a vast, costly net-
work of wire, cables and
stat'ons, it should also make
communications cheaper.
“Satellites can be kept
stationary in space. Three of
these, it is said, placed at in-
tervals in the earth’s orbit,
could handle a world-wide
television-service.
“If the space - ships are
American or Russian these cul-
tures will naturally be pre-
dominant in the television of
the future. It is vitally im-
portant that Western European
civilisation should not be
elbowed out.
“Other satellites can give
navigational and weather in-
formation. The wonderful
little American space-vehicle
Thiros I is already showing
what can be done in meteoro-
logy. Our astronomers are
itching to get their telescopes
into space—and even pure
learning has a mundane value,
as has been shown by Jodrell
Bank.
“Mankind stands on the edge
of fascinating adventures—and
Britain will be none the worse
if she enters them in company
with others.”
Dragnet Digest
Walter Lippmann, in New
York “Herald Tribune”: “There
is some reason to think that
the new flexibility which the
Russians have hinted at recently
may be due to their having had
some second thoughts about
Berlin. It was easy to say that
the Allied occupation of West
Berlin must end. But what if
the impossible happened, what
if the Allies did in fact surren-
der West Berlin to Eastern
Germany, what would happen
if Berlin became the biggest
city in Eastern Germany?
“For West Berlin would have
to be united with East Berlin,
and the result would be a
quarrelsome city of 3i-million
people as the capital of a coun-
try of about 18-million. The
Berliners are a lively lot, and
in trying to swallow them the
East German State might well
be biting off more than it could
chew.”
* * *
E. Heskell Smith, in London
“Time and Tide’’: “Today the
task facing the West is too great
for any one nation to under-
take, but if the nations of
Europe, the [British] Common-
wealth, Britain, the U.S.A. and
Japan were to undertake to
form an international structure
in order to make the most of
their potential resources and to
see how best to give united aid
to the underdeveloped areas of
the world, they would indeed
have taken the first step to-
wards winning the world for
freedom.
“The first step would be the
bridging of the economic
divisions in Western Europe
and recognition of the fact that
narrow national interests are
outmoded. Talks have been
A German cartoon comment, in the Frankfurt “Abendpost,"
on the friction between Britain and her European allies.
The caption is: “Never be cruel to an animal for fun.”
going on during the last six
months along these lines in
Western capitals, but Govern-
ments alone cannot accomplish
everything. Success will only
come with a clear understand-
ing of the issues and with the
self-denial of industrialists and
trade-unionists alike, in every
country. This is the challenge
of the ’sixties.”
* * *
George Evans, in London
“Daily Telegraph”: “Economic-
ally Turkey is still the sick man
of Europe. It is clearly not
paying its way. Not only is
there a serious trade-deficit,
but foreign debts of one
category or another have been
piled-up since the war to a
total of well over £2OO million.
How is the slate going to be
wiped clean?
“Apart from the possibility
of some of the foreign oil-pros-
pectors striking it rich, the only
hope seems to be further heavy
capital-investment to promote
agriculture, tourism and indus-
trial expansion. Given the
necessary funds for this pro-
gramme Turkey, whose popu-
lation of 24-million is increas-
ing at the rate of 3 per cent, a
year, could, it is believed, stand
on its own feet within 15
years.
“The political harmony
which is an essential pre-
requisite is conspicuously
absent at present, but even this
may not be as elusive as it
seems. Neither of the two
main parties is seriously divided
over policy. Even on the ques-
tion of civil liberties, which is
its main plank, the Republican
party could scarcely have been
described as one of the world’s
great liberal institutions when
it was in power.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman": “The
most disastrous thing that could
happen in the world short of
nuclear war is a split between
the wealthy white countries and
the poor colored countries.
The [British] Commonwealth
is the greatest institution in the
world for maintaining and
developing relations between
them. Apart from Britain,
Canada among the white mem-
bers has shown a strong realisa-
tion of this. But this aspect of
the Commonwealth can be
developed much further.
Whether the amount of aid and
loans to the underdeveloped
members is considered gener-
ous or otherwise depends very
much on the standard of judg-
ment. In relation to their
needs it is certainly small.
What the rich countries can
afford, on the other hand, is a
matter of choice between ex-
penditure on this purpose and
on other purposes. A £ 100-
million loan to an under-
developed member-country is
worth more than many bucket-
fuls of sentiment to Common-
wealth relations.”
Various Voices
/. Edgar Hoover (director,
F. 8.1.): “The war between
Communism and the free world
is not fought with bombs or
other tangible weapons. It is
being fought now by subversion
through the medium of ideas.
It is not an accident that the
greatest concentration of Com-
munist workers has been found
in three fields —education,
unions, entertainment. These
are the areas where ideas
flourish and thinking-patterns
are formed.”
Adlai Stevenson: “Our
modern mass-electorates are
verging on the comfortable—
and, to many, freedom has
come to mean freedom from
political responsibility. ‘Don’t
let them take it away’ is more
appealing than ‘Let’s build a
better world.’ The engine of
social progress has run out of
fuel—the fuel of discontent.”
British Labor-party leader
Hugh Gaitskell: “The [U.S.]
primaries are something that
fascinates us. But how do you
survive physically? I find three
weeks of electioneering in Eng-
land quite enough. But nine
months! The system puts you
through such an ordeal that if
you do come out as President
it must seem like a complete
restful holiday.”


AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: BW 1011, BW 1012, 8W4991
DIRECTORS:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman), S. E. A. STIRLING,
JAMES H. STEPHENSON, R. G. GALE, RAYMOND S. GOWARD, C.B.E.
A. 0. MAITLAND ' O. S. PETTERSEN
(Managing Director) (Manager)
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION MERITS YOUR SUPPORT.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOM &
o'suixtvam
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL.” BRISBANE
to the rural areas, inviting
deputations to wait on him and
discuss with him their trans-
port-problems. He originated
a series of institutional-type,
advertisements to tell the rail-
way-story; to educate people
on the role the railways have
played, and are playing, in the
development of the State, a
series which a leading city
newspaper noted was “dignified
and persuasive.”
He used the columns of “The
Railwayman” to assure his
massive work-force that there
would be no casualties attend-
ant on any Ebasco implementa-
tion, setting out his assurances
in a 12-point plan, as the
A.R.U. had done.
The sum-total of his activi-
ties in the field of public-rela-
tions and staff-management is
that morale within the N.S.W.
Railways has been lifted to an
amazing degree.
HThe internal economies Mc-
Cusker has effected point
to a sound and imaginative
administration. Despite a con-
t nued rise in wage- and
material-costs, net operating
expenses last year were £1.2
million lower than for 1957-58,
which year had shown an
improvement in operating ex-
penses of £2.8 million over the
year before that.
All this saving was achieved
in addition to the absorption
of uncontrollable increases in
expenditure and without pass-
ing charges on to rail-cus-
tomers. These savings have
been mainly due to effective
budgetary control and the
benefits accruing from con-
tinued application of moderni-
sation.
With the introduction of
diesel locomotives, for instance,
he saved more than £1 million
in maintenance-costs and fuel-
charges in the 1958-59 financial
year. The reduction of eight-
car to four-car sets of electric-
trains in Sydney’s off-peak
periods resulted in an annual
saving of £150,000, and he
managed otherwise to trim the
department’s colossal electric-
power bill. The replacement of
incandescent by fluorescent
lighting on Wynyard and Town
Hall stations alone saved
£lO,OOO yearly. He saved a
further £45,000 by installing
more efficient electrical equip-
ment throughout the system,
even down to the detail of
fitting water-urns with time-
switches and not operating
"You re Wrong mate — THIS used to
be Toni's fish-shop .”
workshop plant till after the
morning peak was passed.
He initiated a drive to turn
reclaimed scrap to more
account, and last year chalked-
up a record tonnage that
yielded nearly £756,000. By
capitalising on real-estate, both
at and adjacent to railway-
stations, he brought revenue
from this source last year to a
record £561,000, which was
£8666 in excess of estimates.
All in all, it was good house-
keeping.
In the first three complete
years of his administration,
McCusker’s Railways, because
of extra charges, including
award and basic-wage in-
creases, higher prices for stores
and materials, increases in pay-
roll and superannuation con-
tributions, and additional in-
terest and sinking-fund charges,
have absorbed a staggering
£17.4 million.
When the 28 per cent,
marginal-award wage-increase
arrived to add an unwelcome
£3| million yearly to the Rail-
ways’ wages-bill McCusker saw
his current carefully planned
economies in danger of being
swept to the limbo. A £2l-
- absorption in four
years, without some increase in
fares and freights, outraged his
business instincts.
He made his recommenda-
tions to Macquarie Street. The
increases were agreed on, but
McCusker insisted on making
the unpopular announcement
himself, which the Minister had
no hesitation in allowing him
to do. Such procedure, cutting
across a century of tradition,
makes its own comment on
McCusker’s moral courage.
“I am making this an-
nouncement,” he felt con-
strained to say, “because I feel
that, as the management of the
railways is my responsibility,
it devolves upon me to an-
nounce the less-popular deci-
sions as well as those which
might be expected to merit
general approbation.”
"JC vents have proved that Mc-
Cusker is something more
than the “honest trier” he
claims to be.
Aloof, precise, purposeful,
he believes the railways have
nothing to fear from the future.
Nothing galls him more than
to hear people saying that the
railways, his sacred trust, have
had their day.
“It is my belief,” he said
recently, “that the railways, the
State’s major carriers since
1855, will continue to remain
the backbone of its transport-
system.”
He meant it.


ARTHRITIS
Send for FREE LITERA-
TURE containing VALUABLE
INFORMATION, Helpful Ad-
vice and PROOF of how to
treat your condition at low
cost with an effective
NATURAL FORMULA which
has achieved Australia wide
success. Hundreds of grateful
letters received.
Four weeks’ course costs only
£1 Post Free.
STRATTONS
RHEUMATIC SERVICE,
7 Howard St., PERTH, W.A.
“Do you know her, Peter?”
I asked.
“Know her?” Keith said.
“He had her out three times
last week.”
Peter was making his way
across to the girl.
The big German was lean-
ing heavily on the young
girl’s shoulders and singing
“Undanea da lamplights.”
“She’s a very nice girl,” the
young man called Keith told
me. “Very bright—lovely.”
“Nice enough to eat,” I said.
“Is that what they do with
them in Adelaide?” he asked.
“Not exactly.”
Our conversation was
drowned when the young man
drinking the claret brandished
his bottle and proclaimed, “Best
drink in the world!”
'Two couples were jiving in
the centre of the room to
music bleating from a portable
radiogram. They had to dance
around a stubby, fat, freckle-
faced youth lying on the floor.
Earlier in the night he had
been assisting the German with
the keg of beer.
“Can’t ride at all, some of
these so-called jockeys,” the
young man called Keith was
saying.
The young girl alongside me
was beating a biscuit-tin and
gyrating in her seat.
“Are you a newspaperman?”
she asked me for the fourth
time.
“No, I sell them,” I told her.
“Thought so,” she said. “You
look weatherbeaten.”
Landers, who had his arm
around her, almost paternally,
was undoing her brassiere.
“And now for the next con-
testant,” he said, laughing.
Peter shortly introduced me
to the girl called Maria.
She had long dark hair and
brown eyes. She spoke with a
soft confident voice: “Aren’t
these parties mad? Peter tells
me you’ve been in Adelaide for
the past five years.”
I enjoyed talking to her and
found we had some mutual
friends.
Peter was away for a time,
entertaining with Landers.
“He’s a nice chap, Peter,”
Maria said.
“Yes, very nice,” I said.
“This a good barty, I throw,
eh?” the big German asked.
“This a real good barty, I
betcha.”
“Your rotten party stinks!”
the young man drinking claret
shouted.
The big German yelled “Heil
Hitler!” He stamped his foot
twice and put aside his sauce-
pan of beer before knocking
the young man down with a
vicious backhander.
Screams and jazz music in-
termingled.
“Looks like another police-
raid,” one young man said.
The young man the German
had knocked down was bleed-
ing from the nose and sobbing
drunkenly. Crying into his
claret, so to speak.
“This a good barty I throw?”
the German asked.
“You shouldn’t have done
that,” Peter said. “You
shouldn’t have done that.”
“He’s mad, the Hun,” Lan-
ders said.
“You’re here. You’re say-
ing you’re sane?” the girl
“They must have painted her in rough Weather."
alongside me asked him. She
had replaced her brassiere, in a
fashion.
Maria was trying to bring
the claret-drinker to his senses
The noise of the party was
reaching its crescendo again.
T anders, having left the girl
alongside me, was admir-
ing the brunette in the faint
negligee. He suddenly threw
his glass of beer over her.
“Let’s see the shape of
things,” he said and laughed
loudly, swaying on his feet.
The freckle-faced youth,
conscious again, also threw his
beer on the brunette and
cheered his action hysterically.
Soon the brunette’s shape was
thoroughly revealed through a
negligee soaked in beer and
clinging to her form. She
picked up the glasses so quickly
and threw them that no one
was prepared for it.
There was a tray of glasses
in front of her and she had
smashed at least five of them
against the walls before some-
one could pull them away from
her.
Peter and I decided to leave.
Maria said she would drive
home the young claret-drinker.
He lived in the same block of
flats as she, and it was no
trouble, she said.
Peter spoke to her alone
before leaving and I thought
made some arrangements for
another night.
On the lawn outside we
tripped over a young boy and
a girl and passed two other
young men and a girl on the
patio, the girl quite dishevelled.
Going home Peter said to
me: “How about that Maria,
eh! Did you see the way she
mothered that drunken im-
becile? You know, I could
marry a girl like that.”
Peter, I thought, was a little
tight at the time, and I didn't
attach much to his statement.
I thanked him for the oppor-
tunity to meet some of his
friends and arranged to have a
beer with him during the week.
'T'hree days later, on the Tues-
day, I received an invita-
tion to a party celebrating the
engagement of Mr. David
Gibbons to Miss Maria Silleri.
The Maria I knew, but Mr.
Gibbons had me asking for
extra time.
That afternoon I met Peter
at the prescribed time and
hotel and found him drunk.
It was hard to talk to him, but
he managed to tell me he had
given Maria my address. I left
him and took in a show.
There was only a small
gathering at the engagement-
party three nights later. It was
held in an ante-room at a
hotel at the Cross. Holding
hands in the doorway as I
entered were Maria and the
claret-drinker, known to his
friends as David Gibbons.
Maria hardly took her
beautiful brown eyes from him
as she introduced us. He did
not, of course, recognise me
from the party. Her parents,
a humble, urbane Italian
couple, were there. His were
in Perth. Perth society people,
Landers told me.
A good number of the party-
folk were there. The big Ger-
man was missing. The couple
planned to marry the next
week, it was announced. Her
Italian mother beamed and
rubbed her hands. Her father
nodded his head knowingly,
and fingered the top button on
his chocolate-brown double-
breasted suit.
Maria looked even prettier
than she had on the party
night. The Gibbons boy could
have just stepped-out of David
Jones’ window.
The young man, Keith, was
there discussing prospects for
the races the next day. Lan-
ders was baiting him about his
punting and laughing loudly.
Peter arrived late with the
brunette, fully-clad, on his
arm. They were neither sober
nor drunk. He could not recall
seeing me during the week.
Landers approached him
with his microphone. “Yes, just
a few words, thanks, to your
fans, if you don’t mind,” he
said.
“I’d just like to say I’m very
glad to be here,” Peter said.
I could see he wasn't.
Then, I did not know him
as well as I had. And I had
only just returned to Sydney
and did not know the people
well, and especially newspaper-
people. /


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£A344,000,000
•
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Hospital Finances
The latest increases in Vic-
torian hospital-charges, ex-
pected to return an additional
£l| million annually, are un-
likely to bring the general
public much comfort or
stabilise the problem of
hospital finances.
With fees now at £2l a week
for a public bed and £25 in the
intermediate section, it will be
surprising if hospital-benefits
associations do not increase
their premiums accordingly.
As it is, Val Doube, M.L.A.
for Oakleigb, suggests that
most Victorians will have to
join benefit-associations twice
to insure themselves against
the new rates. Alternatively,
he declares, people will need to
pay between 7s. and Bs. a week;
but no association offers pro-
tection at such a high rate.
This view may be extreme,
but there is no doubting the
difficulties. Government sub-
sidy, direct giving and contribu-
tions from Tattersall’s Consul-
tations have failed to keep pace
with the heavy and frequent
demands made on all hospitals.
“Didja get it in one of them sample-bags at the Show?"
Direct giving seems to have
declined lately; the reason,
according to some hospital-
managers, is that lottery sub-
sidies tend to kill the charity
instinct among the public.
Other administrators go so far
as to dismiss lottery contribu-
tions entirely, although the
chairman of the Hospitals
Commission, Dr. J. H. Lindell,
believes that hospitals owe
much to consultations continu-
ing at the present rate of three
or four a week.
Under its charter Tattersall
contributes 31 per cent, of its
revenue to hospitals and 60
per cent, in prizemoney, retain-
ing 9 per cent, for its own use.
In money-terms, this represents
some £l6 million for hospitals,
£3O million pnzemoney and
about £4 million for admini-
stration and the estate of
George Adams —all over a
period of some five years. The
existing three or four drawings
each week has the support of
most of the public—and the
opposition of some churches.
There is no ready solution,
but abolition of the lottery as
advocated by certain church-
men and politicians would only
aggravate present difficulties.
In practice, Tattersall presents
no great temptation to exces-
sive gambling, and its benefits
to the community seem to
justify its retention.
The answer lies elsewhere,
perhaps in a closer look at
hospital - benefits associations,
taxation, and means of stimu-
lating public giving.— Xavier
(Vic.).
Theatre Revival?
The unprecedented success
of “My Fair Lady'’ in Mel-
bourne, the renaming of the
Sydney Empire as Her
Majesty's, and the aspect of
permanency given to the In-
dependent Theatre by the North
Sydney council’s purchase of
it seem to have spread the
impression that theatre in Aus-
tralia is about to rocket to
those heights from which it
descended so disastrously more
than a generation ago and from
which it illuminated the enter-
tainment world of the time.
My own satisfaction over
these events, however, is tem-
pered by some two generations
of theatre experience on both
sides of the footlights, includ-
ing a substantial period as critic
and editor of a theatre-journal
during the heyday of the play-
house on this side of the con-
tinent.
For the theatre to achieve
anything approaching its popu-
larity of the past the revived
form will have to find some
means of joining its resurgence
to the tradition that was part
of it in the first quarter of this
century —a most difficult task,
seeing that a full generation has
known little or nothing of it.
This tradition and atmosphere
of the stage in Australia were
the cumulative results of trial-
and-error by a class of men as
hard to find today as hansom-
cabs and opera-hats—the actor-
manager-producer.
It is safe to say that when
Sydney and Melbourne could
each boast half-a-dozen full-
time theatres in constant opera-
tion they worked under the
direct eyes and hands of actor-
managers who were prepared
to stake their pockets and repu-
tations against their judgment
of plays and players. They
were men who took artistic
pride in their productions and
were ready to go to any reason-
able expense to obtain artistic
results even at the cost of box-
office deficits.
The actor-manager was no
theorist; he had gained his
knowledge of public taste and
of production in the hard
school of itinerant theatre or
in the competitive field of
urban showmanship. More-
over, as an actor, he had learnt
to recognise both the good and
bad elements in the personali-
ties of his company, the mem-
bers of which were ever ready
to accept his advice and direc-
tion, knowing that his was the
voice of sound experience.
The succession of men whose
genius and experience made
the traditional atmosphere of
the theatre what it was included
such names as George Rignold,
Brough and Boucicault, Wilson
Barrett, Charles Hawtrey, Bland
Holt, Charles Holloway and, of
course, J. C. Williamson. But
there were others, too; men who
took their small stock-com-
panies on the road and who,
with meagre resources and
facilities, nevertheless helped to
spread the love of the drama
by their earnest efforts towards
artistic achievement.
To applaud the actor-mana-
ger is not to decry repertory


and little - theatre activities.
These make a very worth-while
contribution to the cultivation
of drama and love of theatre;
but they cannot be anything
more than ancillary to the
theatre as an enterprise within
the great ambit of public enter-
tainment.
Nor can the theatre regain
its lost kingdom while exclu-
sively in the hands of entrepre-
neurs whose sole concern is
box-office, divorced from that
pride in artistic achievement
which was the innate urge of
the actor- manager.— Fred
Aarons (N.S.W.).
Wallace Wurth
“Observer” in his article on
Wallace Wurth is not entirely
factual. I quote;
His stenographic skill brought
him assignments as private secretary
to James McGowan, the State’s
first Labor Premier, and to
Attorney-General D. R. Hall and
George Fitzgerald, Minister for
Justice and Solicitor-General in the
Holman Administration.
When McGowen (not Mc-
Gowan) took office in October,
1910, Mr. Wurth was 16 years
of age. When McGowen gave
place to Holman in 1913 Wurth
was 19.
Dave Hall certainly held one
of the legal portfolios in Hol-
man’s Ministry, as did J. D.
Fitzgerald (not George Fitz-
gerald). Hall had been M.H.R.
for (if memory serves) Werriwa.
Holman had persuaded him to
forsake Federal politics for
what appeared a better job in
the Macquarie-street show. Hall
won Enmore at the Second
Ballot —that queer set-up that
was smartly eliminated. — John
D. Archer (N.S.W.).
[The writer of this letter is author
of Our First Overlander, the story
of Hamilton Hume (Shakespeare
Head Press), which won second-
prize in the children’s section of
the Victorian Literary and Historical
Centenary Competition.]
Pageantry’s Best Friend
To anyone lamenting the
steady decline in Australia’s
(and the world’s) horse-popula-
tion the A.B.C.’s recast of the
8.8.C.’s T.V.-coverage of Prin-
cess Margaret’s wedding was
like a shot in the arm.
Horses dominated the whole
outside scene, as in the true
tradition of England’s regal
pageantry. Drawing the nup-
tial couple’s and the Royal
Family’s carriages, seating the
colorful escorts of the House-
hold Cavalry and Royal Horse
Guards, and carrying the digni-
fied figures of the. two-pa#
procession’s outriders, were
horses . . . horses, horses, and
more horses.
Symbolising as it does the
English loyalty to and affec-
tion for Royalty, the spectacu-
lar pomp and ceremony of such
events can never wane —not
while monarchs reign in Eng-
land. Long, then, may that
pageantry live on, with its
brilliance and dignity, its drama
—and its horses. — Frank Snow
(N.S.W.).
Building Contracts
I think “Bert the Carpenter”
(B. 4/5/ ’6O) tells a tall one in
his par. about architects for-
getting to allow for staircases
in their plans and builders
getting paid for them as extras.
In most building-contracts
there are clauses covering such
errors or omissions; also the
law, roughly, is that anything
necessary to complete a build-
ing is not an extra, and there are
court decisions on such points.
I remember a case where a
court ruled that ceilings could
not be claimed as an extra
because they were necessary to
complete the house.
Admittedly, it all depends on
the wording of the agreement
or contract. But any experi-
enced builder would note that
a staircase had not been men-
tioned when working out his
price, and would be foolish to
sign a contract unless the posi-
tion was clarified.
Architects, being human, are
guilty of errors and omissions,
and these matters are best
settled amicably between the
parties—although the builder
is at a disadvantage, as the
owner or mortgagor can with-
hold payment.
Even local councils do not
pass plans; they merely pass
them subject to the work being
done in accordance with the
building-ordinances. Here again
the onus is on the builder. —
Chips (N.S.W.).
What Price a ’Drome?
A group of citizens of
Toowoomba (Q.) have started
a move for a new aerodrome.
At present the city has two.
The old one at Wilsonton,
about three miles out, is just
a sloping grassy paddock.
Once the DH 86’s .used to
land there ; nowadays it is
the preserve of the aero-club.
The other ’drome is 20 miles
away at Oakey. Built on a
lavish scale during the war
as a main R.A.A.F. repair-
base, it is one of the best-
endowed by Nature in the
Commonwealth. Almost dead-
level, it has ample room for
its miles of concrete and
tarmac runways, a hard, well-
dr ain e d soil and clear
approaches in all directions.
Smog is unknown, and it is
extremely rare for it to be
closed, even briefly, by bad
weather. Passenger- and
cargo-facilities are a long way
behind Mascot, but it is fairly
well equipped for flying, and
further equipment could
easily be installed if needed.
Xwenty miles may seem a
long way, but it is a good
bitumen road, and how many
of the world’s cities are much
better-off in this respect any-
way? There is not even a
fairly good site really close
to Toowoomba, and most of
the flatter ground closer than
Oakey is black soil, valuable
for agriculture, and therefore
costly to resume, but not much
good for heavy planes.
One wonders whether inter-
town jealousy is behind the
move, though Toowoomba
(pop. about 40,000) can’t have
much to fear from Oakey
(about 2000).
Those behind the scheme
haven’t said much about cost
so far, but it’s a safe bet that
it would be colossal. The city
Hamilton Hume
Having spent several years
in the imaginary company of
Hamilton Hume, my agreement
with the reviewer of Frank
O’Grady’s No Boundary Fence
is complete. I was amazed at
the novel’s emphasis on bush-
rangers and aborigines to the
exclusion of any attempt to
describe the truly epic overland
journey.
On the point of whether
Hovell’s diary or Hum e’s
“Statement” gives the more
accurate picture of the trip,
there are surely two important
rules to follow in assessing
historical accuracy. The first
is actual proof that can be
gained from statements by
other people connected with the
persons concerned; the second
is the feel of authenticity that
some documents give.
There is ample evidence
from many sources that Hume
was an outstanding bushman
with great experience in explor-
ing, both before and after the
1824 trip. There is also proof
—for example Sturt’s state-
ments and continued friend-
ship with Hume —that Hume
gave the benefits of his know-
ledge and experience willingly
and in a friendly fashion to
others; that he was easy to
get on with and knew how to
handle men.
Frank O’Grady cannot deny
that there was a clash between
Hume and Hovell during the
trip, and, in the light of the
above facts, I personally would
take Hume’s version of it any
day.
As for the feeling of truth
given by some documents as
against others, again Hume
must win the day. Hovell's
diary was a carefully written
record of how many miles the
expedition covered each day
and what the surrounding
country was like; human
material is almost completely
absent. But would he be likely
to report on a series of clashes
between himself and Hume in
which he, Hovell, was invari-
ably made to look a fool? Or
would he record that whenever
the going became tough he
wanted to turn back?
Hume’s “Statement,” on the
other hand, is so full of
obviously authentic detail, so
human in its approach, its
choice of words, its unintended
characterisation that no one
could seriously deny its truth.
To supplement his own words
Hume includes statements from
three of the convicts on the
journey—two of his own men
and one of Hovell’s —and these
statements support him entirely.
They are so different in ex-
pression, yet so much in agree-
ment on all the essential points,
that they must be accepted as
accurate.
In ignoring the Hume-Hoveil
“donnybrook,” as O’Grady so
“colorfully” describes it, he left
out the most human and fas-
cinating part of the story.—
Joyce Nicholson (N.S.W.).


council could not build the
’drome, even if it would, so
presumably they would look
to the Federal Government—
i.e., to the taxpayers, most of
whom would hardly know
where Toowoomba is, let alone
Oakey, and wouldn't get a
farthing benefit if the new
’drome were built.
Then, of course, a dozen
other cities would want to
know why Toowoomba is get-
ting something they haven’t
got, and so the merry game
would go on. — Magnoon (Q.).
The Olympic Team
The Australian Olympic
Federation’s decision to send
2J2 athletes, plus 22 officials
and probably two coaches, to
the Games has been much
criticised.
It was believed the A.O.F.
would accept its executive’s
decision and cut the team down
to 132; but the recommenda-
tion of W. B. Phillips, Austra-
lian Amateur Swimming Union
secretary, that all athletes
nominated by their organisa-
tions be approved was accepted,
and so we find Australia send-
ing its biggest contingent ever
(76 competitors went to Lon-
don in 1948 and 79 to Helsinki
in 1952).
Although many of the ath-
letes recommended have little
chance of success, they should
all prove fine ambassadors.
Many people when assessing
“Of course it's me—who else might it be, I'd
like to know!"
the value of the team forget
the prime aim of the Olympics
—to compete well. At this
great sporting spectacle vic-
tory is not of paramount im-
portance. If a man acquits
himself in a clean, sporting
manner he has achieved the
aims of the Olympics and done
his duty.
Even if the team had been
pruned to the 132 suggested by
the A.O.F. executive, very few
of these would have much
chance of victory. As things
sland, Australia can feel con-
fident of winning medals in
swimming, women's athletics
and through champion middle-
distance runner Herb Elliott.
The enlarged contingent has
brought up that prime bug-
bear of amateur athletics —
finance. As is the case nine
times out of ten, it is left to
the generously open pockets of
the average Australian to help
send the team away. It is to
be hoped the adverse criticism
in the press will not sway these
people and deprive any athlete
of the chance of a lifetime to
represent his country. — Alan
Schwab (N.S.W.).
Viking Relics
Johannes Bronsted's state-
ment in The Vikings (Red
Page, 20/4/'6O) that no relic
of the Norse attempt at coloni-
sation in “Wineland” (some-
where in North America) has
ever been found is surprising.
American historian Frederick
Pohl wrote a book, The Lost
Discovery, which deals with
early exploration in North
America, including the Viking
voyages to Wineland. Believ-
ing, after close study of the
saga-accounts of those voyages,
that Wineland was the Cape
Cod region of New England,
Pohl made a thorough survey
of the Follins Pond area near
Nantucket and discovered
Viking mooring-holes in rocks
by the waterside.
The mooring-hole was an
ingenious device used only by
the Vikings. A hole was driven
into a rock, and into it a pin
was slipped, attached to the
boat’s hawser, which was
fastened to the boat's stern.
The boat was then moored so
that the hawser was taut. Strong
pressure by winds or currents
at right-angles would have no
effect, but, in the event of
attack from the shore, a flip
upwards of the hawser would
release the pin, and enable the
boat to get under way. Pohl’s
account of his investigations in
this area makes a fascinating
chapter.— Cunedda (N.S.W.).
The "Bulletin" Crossword No. 591
Across
I—Foreshadowing1—Foreshadowing a speechless sailor. (11)
6 —He befriends the husband of mother with ten by
five. (3)
8 — 1-across transferred to duties as a steward? (4, 6)
9 Check stalk. (4)
11 — Have now to change. (3)
12 — Port in Crete wherein you might find this butter-
in. (11)
13 — Mixed green trisectors of a circle
go. (6)
14 — Just those trisectors again ; that’s
the spirit! (5)
18 — South meets an Fmglish poet in
a cunning way. (5)
19 — A groan from fluffy wool. (6)
22 — Once Joe’s lid is damaged,
it becomes tightly inter-
locked. (5-6)
23 The king’s Italianised fury. (3)
24 — One boy’s statutory declaration
begins like this press. (4)
25 Spoil the feature of a zero
liqueur. (10)
26 Tree wherein a sloth drops the
lot. (3)
27 — Legislature seen to change
nous. (11)
Down
1 — A place to land one who prose-
cutes the girl Perseus saved. (9)
2 Afraid it’s how they found the
Marie Celeste. (8)
3 Place for a game kitchen
basin? (7, 5)
4 A place for coining a Tasso
work. (6)
5 I go to Cecil about morning
refreshment. (3-5)
6 Murphy to drive a preposition
into the pocket. (6)
7 Less mobile work by Debussy. (5)
10—How spinners like to find the
pitch, and what unskilled bats-
‘ men may get if dressed for the
tropics. (7-5)
15 — Tea by one attendant of a single
woman. (9)
16 — Some plan for this over-full
phraseology. (8)
17— Do over a hanger-on in Canada
or N.Z. (8)
20— A devilish character who names
a lake after Roy Rene. (6)
21 — Peruvian matched against noth-
ing but the incised part of an
intaglio. (6)
22 — Land one on the point of the
jaw. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 590


mm [PtJMM
T
MM AWIBMdB
WITH
TRANSPORT 8s GENERAL LIFE ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
0
OF TOTAL INVESTED ADVANCED AS LOAN AT KJo PER
Loan repayable by maturity of endowment assurance over 10 to 20 years
Maximum Loan: £10,000; Minimum Loan: £1,500
INVESTMENTS OF YOUR OWN CHOICE FROM LIST OF 175 APPROVED SECURITIES.
Ask your stockbroker for details; phone, call on us, or send completed coupon to
ROBERT PAXTON (INSURANCES) PTY. LTD.
90 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Please send me full details of your “Share
Purchase through Life Assurance.” I understand
this places me under no obligation whatsoever.
NAME 2
ADDRESS
B ISS
(INSURANCES) HOTa# MID
INSURANCE BROKERS
PAXTON HOUSE, 90 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE—BW 4158 (10 LINES)
Advisory Brokers: Pring, Dean & Co. Members of
the Sydney Stock Exchange
RPioOB


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CHANNEL COUNTRY BEEF
From “Myall”
r T , HE Queensland Government
has started its scheme of
building a network of sealed
arterial highways from western
railheads into the Channel
Country. A team of engineers
having meanwhile surveyed the
first section of 256 miles from
Quilpie railhead through Win-
dorah to Currawilla and
reported on road-siting and
materials, the first sod will be
turned before the end of June.
In all, over 1300 miles of
first-class roads will be built,
linking Channel Country dis-
tricts, which produce beef
worth £lO million annually,
with the railheads at Quilpie,
Winton, Dajarra and Yaraka.
The network will involve
the following road-construc-
tion: 116 miles from Ero-
manga, near Quilpie, to Kihee
and Nakowla ; 256 miles from
Quilpie to Currawilla ; 95 miles
from Dajarra to Boulia ; 132
miles from Boulia to Bedourie ;
235 miles from Winton to
An Australian knitting
mill has announced a
new process which
combines the pre-shrink-
ing and mothproofing
of wool, with a “built-
in” deodorant. The
effects of the process,
called “Sanitizing,” are
said to last for the life-
time of the garment.
The process was in-
vented in U.S.A. Wool-
growers throughout
Australia have come
to rely on Elastrator,
the proven method of
safe, certain castration
and tailing. Because it
provides fast bloodless
marking and tailing,
Elastrator greatly
reduces the risk of fly-
borne infections.
Boulia ; 92 miles from Luck-
now to Coorabuika ; 140
miles from Winton to Mayne
Pub; 164 miles from Curra-
willa to Bedourie; 40 miles
from Mooraberree to Betoota ;
and 60 miles from Yaraka to
Windorah.
New stockyards and load-
“Shoo!”
ing-ramps will be built at
Windorah, Nakowlah, Boulia,
Bedourie, Mayne Pub, Luck-
now and Betoota, and new
watering - facilities at the
Morney-Currawilla boundary.
These works will cost an addi-
tional £56,000.
The network will tap an
area as large as Victoria, and
will lift the value of the State's
cattle-breeding industry —now
£6O . million a year—by
between £5 million and £lO
million annually. Shire-
councils in the area will build
and maintain feeder-road
services.
The scheme will enable
cattle to be moved quickly
out of the area in times of
drought or flood, cutting
losses to a minimum, and will
allow store-cattle to be
brought in for fattening in
good seasons. Graziers in the
Northern Territory, as far
north as the Barkly Table-
land, can also use the roads
to move their stores into the
area quicker than at present.
Graziers will have the option
of forwarding their fats to the
meatworks at Brisbane, Rock-
hampton or Townsville, which-
ever they consider the best
market.
The recent drought in the
area caused losses estimated
conservatively at 200,000 head,
worth about £8 million, and
most could have been saved
had suitable communications
been available. The Channel
Country cannot be easily
droved, because of the soft
feet that develop there ; con-
sequently good roads to carry
fast-moving road-trains are
indispensable if these gigantic
losses are to be avoided.
In February the Queens-
land Government approached
the Federal authorities for a
pound-for-pound subsidy to
build the arterial highways,
each Government providing
£1,650,000. At time of writ-
ing no reply had been received
from the Commonwealth
Government; so, rather than
delay longer, the State decided
to make £500,000 available to
start the work. If necessary,
it will provide the full amount
from its own resources.
Immediately Queensland
approached the Commonwealth
for financial support it met
with interference from southern
interests. An influential group
of 20 primary - producers’
organisations is agitating for
a north-south cross-country
road to be built inland with
Federal aid. The first step
would be to build a £ 15-
million bitumen highway,
linking South Australia with
Dubbo, in western N.S.W.,
thence through Bourke to the
Channel Country, Boulia,
Dajarra, Mt. Isa, the Barkly
Highway to Katherine and
on to Wyndham in W.A. The
scheme also provides for the
diversion of North Queens-
land rivers, to permit controlled
flooding of the Channel
Country.
The Queensland Government
strongly opposes any sucW
move to divert cattle from the
Channel Country to abattoirs
and markets in the southern]
States. As the State produce!
70 per cent, of Australia’s beef-j
exports its ports are the logica
outlets for this beef. Whei
announcing the Queensland
Government’s decision t(
carry-on independently witl
the work, the Premier said:
“If we can't get help becausi
of interference from othe 1
States, we will build the road
ourselves, so that we can keej
our own cattle moving through
Queensland.”
Although the Queensland
United Graziers’ Association!!
was listed as one of
organisations for the Bourkai
conference it was not repre
sented at the talks ; it is sup]
porting the State Government!
arterial-road scheme to tak*
cattle through to the
coast. j
A prominent Channel
Country member summed-uri
the situation: “When com-
pleted the Quilpie-Currawilla]
highway will be the greatest!
development ever to occur in]
this corner of the State. The|
roads provided under tha
Government’s plan will ultil
mately double the annua
turn-off of Channel Countrj
fat-cattle. Normally the coun
try served by the Quilpie
Currawilla section has an
annual turn-off of 70,00 f
prime beasts, and the ne4
road will step this up bf
35,000 head. More efficierf
transport allowed by the roal
will enable us to market younji
choice beef, which is impo:
sible in present condition
This plan should take pn
cedence over any move fo>
the building of a highwa
through the region froi
southern States. Such a
undertaking can come lat<
and fit in with the Queenslao
plan once the road-netwoh
the Government envisage
has been established to tap tt !
Channel Country. It cann<
operate effectively in the are!
until the Queensland network
has been completed.”
The Queensland Govern
ment has plans for road-traii
to lift stock from the area H
railheads for transport to tl
coast while the network ]
being built. These train
capable of carrying 80 hen],
of cattle or 130 weaners ear
trip, have a maximum sp4 (
of 30 m.p.h. They vv«j|
largely used to transport stol


One Scotch
stands
out.
:
* ;Vs :
'
I
Z/ 4^ SoMclcr^rp^
!^OCEDFS»HO
Nt;r Ctt»uj»eio irr c f ' tv
WM
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH It
SCOTCH WHISKY
DISTILLERS
SANDERSON & SON LTD,
Fine old Scotch whisky
V> v
from the Northern Territory
to Camooweal during last
year’s drought, travelling by
night and covering the 450
miles in 18 hours. It would
take at least a month to walk
cattle this distance in normal
seasons ; in a drought it would
be impossible.
Diesel-electric “off-road”
trains are also being con-
sidered. These are capable of
travelling at up to 20 m.p.h.
along rough stock-routes and
tracks away from made roads.
Each train consists of a diesel-
electric primemover which
provides power to all wheels
of the cargo-cars coupled
together to form the train.
Soft tyres and the even for-
ward movement of the cars
made possible by the power-
system prevent bruising of
stock. The train may consist
of up to 12 cars and is capable
of transporting 200 to 250 head
of cattle per trip. The prime-
mover, easily uncoupled, is
equipped with a blade so that
a track can be made over
washaways and other impedi-
ments. It can climb seemingly
impossible hills, and can cross
sandy and marshy areas with-
out difficulty.
The Government is urging
graziers to engage in beef-
production all the year round,
in order to ease the problem
of seasonal employment of
meat-workers, many of whom
are now idle six mohths of
the year. Graziers would be
pleased to see the beef-industry
expanded, but practical econo-
mics determine whether this is
possible, and suitable seasons
are essential for the success
of the scheme. Feeding of
cattle on grain to supplement
grazing, as practised in some
districts, is not at present pos-
sible in the Channel Country.
Individual graziers will have
to examine the economics of
such a proposition before
being prepared to spend the
necessary money. With open-
ing-up of the area and a
succession of good seasons, the
Channel Country could well
provide an answer to the
problem of Australia’s beef-
exports.
Tropical Maize-rust
“Zea”: Tropical maize-rust,
caused by a fungus, has
attacked maize-crops on the
Atherton Tableland (Q.) for
two seasons running.
Rust-spores are carried very
long distances by the wind, and
officials of the Queensland Agri-
cultural Department believe the
disease has thus travelled from
tropical Africa (where it origi-
nates), through countries bor-
dering the Indian Ocean to
South-east Asia and Indonesia,
and then across to North
Queensland.
A departmental spokesman
says that, since there is no
known way of controlling the
rust, the only answer is to
produce resistant varieties. On
the Atherton Tableland both
hybrid and standard varieties
are being examined for indica-
tions of resistance, and maize-
breeders are obtaining resistant
material from Africa, hoping
to bring resistance into hybrid
varieties being bred in Queens-
land.
A common species of maize-
rust has been known in the
State for years, but has never
caused any great damage.
Tropical-rust is, however, likely
to cause severe losses in sus-
ceptible varieties during wet
seasons, especially in the north
of the State.
Water-buffalo Export
“North"’: Water-buffaloes, for
years considered a major pest
in the Northern Territory, have
become the target of a prospec-
tive export-industry, probably
worth £1 million annually.
Descendants of water-buffa-
loes introduced into the Terri-
tory from Timor over 100
years ago to draw ploughs and
other farm-implements, they
number many millions and
thrive on the grassy plains and
tepid swamps east of Darwin,
where they cause great destruc-
tion to cattle-lands.
Until recently the buffalo
was hunted only for its hide,
but in December, 1958, cattle-
exporters, short of their com-
plement to fill the cattle-boat
Waiwerang, included 53 head
in a shipment of cattle destined
for the Philippines and Hong
Kong. Since then inquiries
have been received by the N.T.
Administrator and Darwin
Chamber of Commerce, and
even by buffalo-hunters, from
prospective importers.
The Philippine Chamber of
Commerce wants regular
monthly shipments of 1000
head of tame, live buffaloes,
and a Hong Kong cattle-im-
porter requires the same num-
ber. Red China is in the
market for minced buffalo-
meat, while Germany and other
European countries want the
meat, as a substitute for don-
key-flesh, for use in sausages
and salami. Japan will, pur-
chase all horns available, and
hides are eagerly sought by
tanners.
Great activity has already
started in anticipation of the
export - demand. Owners of
cattle-stations at Point Stewart,
Woolner and Marrikai intend
to catch buffaloes for the Asian
market this year. All have
large numbers of stockmen
ready to muster on the proper-
ties; on Port Stewart alone the
number of buffaloes is esti-
mated at more than 40,000


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to —
NAME
ADDRESS
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 125.; \ year— £1 6s. Post
free. British Empire: £3 3s. 6d. Foreign: £3 16s.
W.A. Subscribers: Air-freight—Bd. extra per issue.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d. ; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques.
These prices include postage and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to "The Bulletin” or any newsagent
in Australia or N.Z.
head. Many buffaloes have
been yarded for some months,
and numbers have been trained
to act as “coachers.” These are
driven into the wild herds,
which they quieten, making
them easily managed.
Some mission-stations, on
whose land thousands of buffa-
loes roam, are preparing to
muster the animals later, when
the export-demand is in full
swing.
The Northern Territory Ani-
mal Industry Bureau plans to
make a survey of the buffalo-
population of the Territory and
its movements, and has set up a
staging-depot at the road-junc-
tion between Darwin and the
three stations primarily con-
cerned. Here all animals will
be inspected and inoculated
before being passed as suitable
for export.
W. Curtis, the Animal In-
dustry director—he travelled to
Pakistan with U.N.O. —takes
special interest in the water-
buffalo. Having caught a num-
ber, he has trained them to
drink from troughs, eat from a
person’s hand, and submit to
mustering each evening. They
are now easier to handle than
cattle.
Feeding Dogs
“Canine”: When it comes
to tucker, dogs differ in the
amount of food they need and
the nutritive value of various
foodstuffs also vary, so size
and weight are the best guides
to follow. A sheepdog or a
cattledog, working every day,
needs more food than a house-
hold pet which lies about in
the yard.
It isn’t necessary for a dog’s
whole ration to consist of meat.
A quarter of the total ration
is quite enough meat ; the rest
can be made-up of carbo-
hydrates and fats. If meat is
scarce and dear, meatmeal will
give equally good results.
Dogs can digest and absorb
and fats as
efficiently as human-beings can
manage such things, and for
a dog’s diet they can be
supplemented with minerals
and vitamins.
A total feed of lib. daily,
given in a single meal at night,
is enough for a working-dog
of 301 b. weight. The ideal
ration should consist of 50 per
cent, wholemeat and 50 per
cent, cereal food. Pollard,
porridge, breakfast-food or
dog-biscuits may all be given,
either separately or in mixture.
If the dog will eat mashed-
potatoes these may be substi-
tuted for the cereal.
The daily ration for a dog
weighing up to 401 b. should
be lflb. If bones are not
available, add a teaspoonful of
sterilised bonemeal to the food
daily. If the dog has to work
the following day the ration
should be slightly reduced.
Meatmeal will keep in good
condition for long periods if
it doesn’t get wet. Many
working-dogs thrive on a daily
ration of fib. pollard and fib.
meatmeal. Most stock- and
poultry-mashes contain about
25 per cent, of meatmeal, and
these are often fed as the daily
ration without any addition.
Pleuro-pneumonia
“Acacia”: South-east Queens-
land has been declared a pro-
tected area for control of
bovine pleuro - pneumonia,
which is still present in beef-
cattle areas of Central and
Northern Queensland and the
Northern Territory.
Lately a mob of infested
cattle, arriving in Queensland
from another State by sea, had
been widely distributed before
the disease was detected, so ex-
tensive control-measures were
necessary.
Under the declaration no
cattle are allowed to enter the
protected area unless they have
been depastured for three
months in the State or
have passed a blood - test.
Cattle intended for im-
mediate slaughter, however,
may enter by rail, road or sea
without any ban. Cattle from
another State will be allowed
entry if it is certified that there
has been no case of pleuro-
pneumonia in that State during
the last three months.
The protected area will be
extended from time to time, in
order to clear the disease out
of the State. What with loss of
stock, control-measures and
costs of administration, the
disease is estimated to set the
Commonwealth back £2 mil-
lion a year, so to get rid of it
completely would be a big step
forward in world food-supply.
Forming an international
panel, agricultural officials
from Australia, Great Britain,
Angola (Africa), French Equa-
torial Africa and Nigeria and
a Food and Agricultural
Organisation officer have re-
cently been investigating inci-
dence of the disease and con-
trol-measures to be adopted,
aiming to collect all existing
knowledge and to make recom-
mendations for further research
and vaccine-testing.
Restoring
Soil-fertility
“Wilga”: Statistics of grain-
yield to the acre on Queens-
land’s Darling Downs show a
variance between the present
day and earlier times. The
following comparisons of aver-
age bushels to the acre are in-
teresting—figures in brackets
being the highest yields actually
harvested on the Downs:
Wheat, average yield. 23 (60);
barley, 30 (70); linseed, 8 (36);
grain-sorghum, 25 (120); white
French-millet, 20 (70); Japanese-
millet, 18 (60); setaria, 15 (60);
cowpeas, 9 (36); navy-beans, 5 (36);
canary-seed, 11 (36); sunflower and
safflower, each 1/3 rd ton an acre
(1 ton); cotton, 1 /sth ton an acre
(1 ton).
When these figures were pub-
lished growers wanted to know
how it was possible to get such
fantastic yields, and an Agri-
cultural Department officer ex-
plained.
Fie said every one would
agree that soil-conditions and
season must be ideal, and that
varieties sown must suit the
district. Plant-population
should be within a given range,
and crops must be free from
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(5/5/’6O)
Good rains are indicated on the Queensland coast,
Darling Downs, central highlands and part of the Maranoa
during June, although falls should be poor elsewhere~in the
State. Heaviest falls are indicated on the coast south of
Mackay, with flooding on the South Coast. Rainfall should
be poor in July, but reasonably good in the eastern half of
the State during August.
Good rains should continue in most of N.S.W. during
June, but falls should be poor in the Far West and along
the Darling; flooding is indicated in the central and southern
divisions. Rains should be light to moderate during July,
reasonably good during August, then patchy until November.
Victoria should get light to moderate patchy rains
during June, followed by reasonably good falls in July.
Apart from September, rain should be patchy for the balance
of the year.
Light to moderate patchy rains are likely in South
Australia during June. Reasonably good falls are indicated
for July, with moderate rain extending into the far-north
interior.
Good rains are likely in the Fortesque (W.A.), with
moderate falls occurring in the Gascoyne during June. Rain
should be moderate and below normal in the s.-w. agri-
cultural areas and light elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


K\
P
’S'
L d /
, e w J** /
% '
(Jp
• The strongest ready-to-use
animal glue for sticking
emery cloth to grinder discs.
DAVIS
LIQUID GLUE
Obtainable in 4 oz., 8 oz:,
and I gallon tins. Also in
tubes for the home.
All particulars from
DAVIS GELATINE
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
FROM -HARDWARE AND GENERAL STORES
i-eeds, protected from attack
insects and disease, and so
nil. But within this set of
factors are two —nitrogen and
water —which, more than any
others, dictate whether medio-
crity or full potential will be
the final result.
To the graingrower, soil-
nitrogen and crop-results run
parallel. Any piece of virgin
land on the Downs reaches a
productive peak after its first
year under crop and maintains
this level for about five years,
after which crop-results fall
slightly. Yield then remains
fairly stable for a number of
years until suddenly the grain-
protein begins to fall. The
next step is a significant drop
in grain-yields. That yield-pro-
tein story follows the soil-nitro-
gen pattern.
, Virgin soil is fairly well
supplied with nitrogen, which
is continually being built-up
through the activity of various
micro - organisms associated
with nodulation of legumes and
of plant - resi-
dues. Immediately land is
this build-up ceases.
INitrogen is released and used
j by crops, or washed-out, or
lost in other ways not yet
dearly understood.
For about the first five years
Mere is adequate nitrogen avail-
able for really good crops, but
■then the rate of use and wastage
shows up. Crop-performance
falls to parallel the diminishing
supplies of available nitrogen.
This can be restored either by
turning the land back to pas-
ture or through the use of nitro-
genous fertilisers.
Fertilisers are expensive, a
minimum annual application
costing £2 an acre. A legume
base pasture has the solid
advantage of restoring soil-
structure. If the aim is for
crop-potential, then soil-nitro-
gen must be at its peak. This
makes it necessary for the soil
to be recharged with nitrogen
through a stand of lucerne
after about five years of crop-
ping.
In local conditions the ques-
tion is: Can rotation of five-
years crop with three-years
legumes be tolerated?- If not,
the alternative is to accept the
slight lowering of crop-per-
formance which occurs between
the first five-year flush and
the eventual drop in protein.
This period can be from five
to 15 years. Grain-protein then
gives the warning; when that
drops, yields follow.
At this stage there is no
alternative—the land must go
back to pasture. For crop-
potential a rotation of five-
years crop and five-years pas-
ture may be needed; for good
above-average yields (always
aiming at the potential) 15-
years crop and five-years pas-
ture may suffice. This last
plan might be favored as a
more acceptable farming pro-
position. Potential is desirable,
but not necessarily economic.
General conclusions: Animal
legumes, like cowpeas, help to
maintain soil-nitrogen their
life is short to offset appreciable
build-up. Grazing animals help
to stem nitrogen-loss—hence
the initial grain-crop produc-
tivity of old dairyfarms. Free
crop-residue ties-up nitrogen
and can result in a temporary
nitrogen-deficiency. If double-
cropping, all residue must be
burned. Crops can only make
full use of available nitrogen if
they have ample supplies of
water.
Aircraft in
Agriculture
“Wimra”: Last year’s aerial
wheat-sowing in Western Aus-
tralia was not, as claimed, the
first bf the kind in Australia.
In the unusually wet cropping-
season of 1956 Wimmera (Vic.)
wheatfarmers at both Dooen
and Murtoa resorted to seeding
from aircraft. The harvest,
however, proved disappointing.
Much better results were
obtained by a Warrncourt (Vic.)
linseedgrower, N. Dennis,
whose aerial-sown crop yielded
\ ton of seed an acre. This
induced him to have a larger
area sown from the air in
1959.
In topdressing from the air,
however, the Wimmera has
lagged behind many other
districts; it was not until
March, 1960, that superphos-
phate was spread from the air
in this region. By ordinary
topdressing methods 150 tons
of super, would have had to be
distributed over 4000 acres of
Melrose station, 25 miles from
Horsham, and the paddocks
last to be topdressed would
have missed much of the
benefit.
The Ceres aircraft (a modi-
fied version of the Wirraway
fighter) which undertook the
job had in its first three months
of use already spread 1500 tons
of super., so quoted 15 hours
for the Melrose job. Wet,
windy weather, with gusty
periods when it was too danger-
ous for the plane to leave the
ground, extended the time to
23 hours. But even then the
whole job cost no more than if
done by the old method, while
there was an enormous saving
of time, with consequently
better results, and of labor,
especially as the use of bulk
super, cut-out double-handling
of heavy bags.
This practical demonstration
of aircraft for farm-work has
influenced other landowners,
who intend topdressing from
the air as soon as bulk-supplies
of super, become more readily
available.
Drainage-lisie Erosion
“Myall”: African star-grass
has answered the problem of
erosion along drainage-lines on
Queensland’s Darling Downs.
Being soft and offering little
resistance to the free flow of
water, the grass causes none of
the troubles associated with
paspalum and Rhodes-grass,
such as slowing the flow, mak-
ing the water drop its silt, or
pushing it out of the drainage-
lines.
In a project at Kaimkillen-
bun, near Dalby, three sills of
loose soil were bulldozed, about
two chains apart, into a gully
approximately 15ft. wide and
3ft. deep. The sills, level on
top and 18in. below the sur-
rounding country, had their
downstream sides carefully
shaped to a 1-in-10 fall, and
were then planted with roots
of African Star-grass.
That work was done last
October, and the gully has since
had to carry concentrations of
water. The sills are now a
mass of dense green foliage,
and appear to give full protec-
tion against the rush of water
that can be expected in the
future.
African Star-grass does not
set seed, but is propagated by
root-cuttings. When estab-
lished it grows rapidly, cover-
ing the ground with a thick,
soft mat in three or four
months. There’s no worry con-
trolling it in cultivations, either.
Several farmers who have had
three years’ experience of the
grass, found no problem in
keeping it within bounds. A
paddock of it was recently pre-
pared for lucerne-sowing, and
normal soil-preparation was all
that was needed to get rid of
it completely.
Book Reviews
The third edition of Dr. R.
B. Ke 11 e y’s Principles and
Methods of Animal Breeding
(Angus and Robertson) is com-
pletely revised. It brings up-
to-date the valuable discussions
of the original work and adds
a new chapter and an appen-
dix, which includes definitions,
formulae and examples for
those wishing to touch the
fringe of biometics. This book,
like the previous editions, is
written to help the practical
man on the land.
Odhams Fruit Growers’ En-
cyclopcedia: Edward Hyams
(Odhams) is written primarily
for English fruit-farmers. Some
of the information it gives is
useful to Australian orchardists,
but there are gaps—and you
have to turn the seasons upside-
dowh.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Supplied
From the N.S.W. Dept, of
Agriculture: We would suggest
that, when requesting identification
of shrub or tree, your readers
submit specimens of several leaves
attached to a stem with, in some
cases, flowers and/or fruits. Speci-
mens should be submitted as fresh
as possible, and to facilitate this
they should be picked fresh and
wrapped in several sheets of moist
newspaper prior to dispatch.
Information Sought
Biographical details of the poet
Will Lawson, his interests, etc.
Will Lawson was born on Sept.
2, 1878, at Durham (England),
educated at West End and South
Brisbane State schools and Bris-
bane Grammar. Joined Union S.S.
Co. of N.Z. as clerk in 1893, then
A.M.P. Society, where he stayed
18 years. Became journalist, join-
ing “Evening News” (1912-16) and
“N.Z. Herald.” Also represented
“Smith’s Weekly” in N.Z., then
was on Sydney staff of same paper.
Visited U.S. 1924-25, and on return
joined “Evening News” (1925-31),
during which time he visited the
Far East. From 1931 till 1932
he was in the Mt. Cook Tourist
Office, Sydney. From then till he
died in Sydney in October, 1957,
he was a “freelance in literature.’
His publications (mostly by Angus
and Robertson) include When
Cobb and Co. Was King, Old Man
Murray, Harpoons Ahoy, Bush
Verses, Bill the Whaler, Galloping
Wheels (a railway novel written in
collaboration with Tom Hickey),
Paddlewheels Away, Forbidden
Gold and So Freedom Came. In
1905 he married Vera Willis. His
recreations were reading and walk-
ing, his interests ships and rail-
ways, both of which he wrote
about extensively. He lived, in his
later Y ea rs, at Bargo and North-
bridge (N.S.W.).
* * * *
Who were Mann and Perry,
mentioned in Francis Webb’s
poem, “Leichhardt in Theatre”?
John F. Mann, a surveyor, and
James Perry, a saddler, were both
members of the second Leich-
hardt expedition, which set out
from Darling Downs (Q.) in Decem-
ber, 1846, in an attempt to cross
the continent. The expedition
covered only about 500 miles in
five months and accomplished very
little, being upset by poor arrange-
ments, bad weather and personal
quarrels. In 1888 Mann published
a small book, Eight Months with
Dr. Leichhardt in the Years 1846-47,
in which he presented data strongly
critical of Leichhardt’s leadership
and general conduct. (See Strange
New World, by A. H. Chisholm,
for a general account of the
expedition.)
* * * *
A short life-history of the
bardee-grub ?
The barti (or bardee, or purdie)
is the larval stage of a large
species of Hepialid moth. The
adult moth is grey and has> wings
The Bulletin, May 18, 1960
marked with silvery bands. The
larva (barti) feeds in the wood
of the roots of gum-trees, gouging
channels through the sappy parts.
When fully developed the larva
turns into a pupa. This pupa
eventually works its way to the
soil-surface (the larva having left
the wood and entered the soil just
before changing into a pupa) and
protrudes from the surface. The
adult moth emerges and flies away.
The females lay a large number
of eggs, scattered over the surface
of the soil in the vicinity of food-
plants. The moths are attracted
“Do be careful, Claude! Remember, it's not OUR car!”
to light. The lengths of the larval
and pupal stages are not known
with certainty. Aborigines eat
both grubs and adult moths.
* # * *
Information on final result of
World Beauty Quest conducted in
Australia by the “Lone Hand"
magazine aro'und 1909 ?
Early in 1909 the Chicago
“Tribune” conducted a World
Beauty Quest, with the “Lone
Hand” charged with the respon-
sibility of finding the Australian
contender. Competitions were held
in all States, the State finalists
battling it out —with the aid of
the photographers, for, unlike
today (when such other attributes
as intelligence, deportment, speech,
etc., have to be taken into considera-
tion), this competition was judged
solely on what the camera disclosed.
The ultimate! Australian winner
was Miss Alice Buckridge, of
Victoria. Her photo was sent to
the U.S., but how she stood-up
against the beauties abroad seems
to have disappeared in the mists
of time.
Brief Answers
M.K.L.: None of the standard
reference-books makes mention ot
any such ceremony... .L.S.: The
Curator of Anthropology at the
Australian Museum, Sydney, will
give an opinion of the specimen
if you take or send it to him
N.G.N.: The word is “Pilgarlic,”
meaning a peeled head of garlic.
It is applied to a bald-headed man,
as humorously likened to a
“pilled” or peeled head of garlic.
G.K.: Wanganui means a
“great haven or bay,” being
derived from Whanga, a bay, and
Nui, large... .H.Y.: The first age-
pension, introduced by the Deakin
Government in 1909, was 10s. a
week, with a permissible income
also of 10s H.S.P.: The Shorter
Oxford English Dictionary doesn’t
give either “reorient” or
“reorientate.” The verb “orient,”
meaning to “adjust, correct or bring
into defined relations, to known
facts or principles,” or to “put
oneself in the right position or
relation,” to “ascertain one's bear-
ings,” has now generally been
superseded by “orientate”....
L.W.J.: Andrew Charlton’s best
time for 440yds. was smin. 11.8 sec.,
made in Sydney Domain Baths on
Jan. 12, 1924....Mr5. M.E.M.:
Where an applicant for a loan
under the War Service Homes Act,
or his wife, is already the owner
of a dwelling-house, eligibility
under the Act cannot be estab-
lished... .E.R.: The name of the
mutton-fish of the Channel Islands
is Ormer. Details of its occur-
rence is contained in the little book
British Shells, by F. Martin Dun-
can, available in the King Penguin
series M.P.: (1) No informa-
tion available on the Fixed Income
Association. (2) Sir Henry Parkes
(1815-96) was five times Premier
of N.S.W.; Sir Edmund Barton
(1849-1920) was first Prime
Minister of Australia. (3) Write
to the Director, United Kingdom
Information Services, 16 Bridge
Street, Sydney, re possibility of
getting pension for aged couple
returning to England; but first put
the case to the Director of Social
Services, Perth, to determine it
applicant is eligible for it here.
... .F.S.: Such authorities as
Theobald and Israel Gollancz agree
that no source of Shakspeare’s
tragedy Titus Andronicus has yet
been discovered, so that it must
be presumed to be purely fictitious.
Whilst the setting is Rome,
Andronicus is a surname of pure
Greek derivation. As Saturninus
is one of the characters, the pos-
sible time of the play is around
100 B.C.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
C.K.L.: The only mystery
about it is why did you
write it? R.L.W.: Improbable
conversations spoiled an otherwise
fair story... .G.T.: You possibly
are not aware of it, but a little
historical accuracy is not a fatal
handicap in writing an historical
story... .D.C.D.: It frisks like a
rhinoceros... .H.H.: You achieved
atmosphere, but a tendency to
overwrite beat it... .P.G.F.: Good
for a first attempt, but prune the
adjectives and avoid outlandish
subjects... .G.M.: Well, that
should be a lesson to Nola not to
accept rides in shiny automobiles
from strange gentlemen with var-
nished hair and smooth manners,
.... J.M.8.: Fourteen-year-old who
fell passionately in love with his
teacher spanked and sent home
... .G.H.M.: Hop in :
H.G.T.: Local s.-p. mer-
chant who challenges the nark-
copper to a duel with poisoned
arrows was never in the race
W.8.F.: Listen-in to a few police-
court cases before your next try
at a yarn like that... .T.W.: Not
bad, but cut the moralisings.
OUR NATIONAL ANIMAL
Stumpy little Euro with short and
sturdy arms,
It would rather crawl than hop, as it
sneaks about the farms.
Waterless wastes for miles, scrubby trees
and sand
That is where the Grey exists, and
thrives on the arid land.
Gliding o’er the saltbush fiats, goes the
stately Red,
With beautiful form to accentuate the
speed for which it’s bred.
These three types of animal we lovingly
call our own,
But yet we try to eradicate them from
the land on which they roam.
Stumpy Euro, Noble Grey, stately Great
Marloo,
Pests to many, loved by all, our
National Kangaroo!


THE HOLLIDAYS
“Hand me ‘Snead's Art of Putting,' please."
New Recordings
Mozart, Haydn and Bruch
It is doubtful if any other
opera in the repertoire could
take such severe abridgement
as is given The Magic Flute in
this pressing from Deutsche
Grammophon on mono (LPEM
19194) and still retain such
cogency as Schickenaeder’s
obfuscated plot, with its hotch-
potch of Masonic rituals and
magic in ancient Egypt, could
endow it. But the story —surely
the silliest in all opera, not
excepting “II Trovatore,” —is
the least important part of
it. All that counts —outside the
spectacle which the setting
around the Temples of Isis and
Osiris lends it —is the magic of
Mozart’s music, for in this final
masterpiece of his he wrote
serene arias of great beauty
for soprano and bass, and
comic music in his best Figaro
vein for the birdcatcher-
character, as well as some of his
most felicitous concerted num-
bers and magnificent choruses
for the priests, with enchanting
background-music for the
orchestra.
Clever abridgement has
sacrificed mostly the spoken
words—as distinct from later
Italian opera, conversation was
an integral part of all Mozart
operas—and verses have been
cut from some of the arias.
Rita Streich, as Queen of the
Night, sings the great Air, with
its tremendous coloratura
difficulties, wonderfully well.
Josef Greindl, as Sarastro, the
High Priest, uses a splendidly
sombre resonant bass in the
“Invocation” and “Within
These Sacred Walls,” probably
the two best bass arias in the
whole range of opera. Ernst
Hafliger, a fine tenor with a
voice much the quality of
Rudolf Schock’s, is the Tamino
of the piece.
Of the 104 symphonies which
Haydn composed, the 12 best
are undoubtedly the “Salomon”
symphonies which he wrote in
England under contract to that
shrewdest of 18th-century
entrepreneurs, and of these the
Surprise (No. 94) and the
Military (No. 100) are fine
examples of his mature tech-
nical mastery and his genius for
unfailingly producing beauti-
ful melodies. These two are
contained on an Ace of Clubs
LP record (ACLA 41), and are
played with due regard for the
high spirits and the trumpet-
callings of the “Military,” and
the gracefulness and the humor
—as in the two loud notes
intruding into the slow move-
ment of the “Surprise.” dropped
in, as the genial Haydn re-
marked, “to wake the ladies
up.” Van Beinum conducts,
the orchestras being the Lon-
don Philharmonic in the
“Military” and the Concertge-
bouw in the other.
Another fine Ace of Clubs
release is the Bruch Violin
Concerto (ACLA 64) with
Campoli as soloist with the
New Symphony Orchestra
under Royalton Kisch. For the
sensuous beauty of the medi-
tative Adagio—and in the
literature of the violin-concerto
this section is shaded only by
Mendelssohn’s —Campoli draws
upon his loveliest tone on all
four strings to make this one
of the fiddle’s best commit-
ments to wax. On the reverse
are Saint-Saens’s Havanaise
and Introduction and Rondo
Capriccioso.
For Festival, Denis Condon
conducts the Fort Street Boys’
High School Choir in Aus-
tralian Carols (MX 4164), a 7in.
E.P. These charming little
pieces, with music by William
James to the lyrics of J.
Wheeler, are sung with the
tonal command, discipline, and
above all the fresh-voiced
youthful spiritedness which
won this choir top place in the
last two Sydney Eisteddfods.
❖ ❖ ♦+♦
Pops, Loud and Softer
Ronnie Hawkins, one
gathers from the biographical
note on the album containing
a dozen songs recorded for
Roulette under the title Ronnie
Hawkins and His Hawks (RL
25078), learnt his music in the
Ozarks, where they apparently
like their music loud and like
it fast and furious. Ronnie
sings with all he’s got, and his
Hawks support him with
drums, piano and guitar, the
last two electrified, says the
' man on the cover, “which adds
to the group’s instrumental
impact.” It certainly does.
Pop-songs in quieter vein
come on a seven-inch platter
from Coronet, titled Four Star
Western (KEP 231). Four
singers, four songs and four
moods. Dead-pan humor
from Johnny Horton: “When
it’s Springtime in Alaska” (it's
forty degrees below). Nostal-
gia : “City Lights” (Ray
Price). Sentiment: George
Morgan’s “Little Dutch Girl.”
♦> ❖ ❖
Romany Rhythm
Gipsy music is no novelty,
but there’s something out of
the ordinary run of such fare
in Philips’ Hifi-Mono Please,
Gipsy, Play (BL 680508). This
is gipsy music, played by
gipsies—a whole family of
them. Tata Mirando is a
Hungarian tzigane who has
fiddled his way through life
and Europe, accumulating not
much in the way of worldly
goods, but a varied collection
of violins, ’cellos and other
stringed instruments, 13 sons
and three daughters. Out
of this material he has formed
the Mirando gipsy orchestra,
in which he himself plays the
double-bass and eight of his
sons play violins, ’cellos and
guitars. -The last-named instru-
ments are unusual in a gipsy
orchestra; they replace the
customary cimbalum.
Mirando doesn’t lean on
the classical arrangements of
gipsy music. His programme
consists of Hungarian, Rus-
sian, Armenian and Bess-
arabian folksongs he has
picked-up in his wanderings—
airs he has captured but not
tamed—and most of them
have a quality of joyous
paganism.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Smartly uniformed women of the
Royal Australian Army Nursing Corps,
the R.A.N., the Army and the Air Force
marched with the men of the U.S. Navy
and of the three Services of Australia in
the annual Coral Sea march through
city streets. The Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, and Admiral Hopwood took
the salute at the dais outside the Town
Hall. Guests at the civic luncheon which
followed the march included American
officers, members of our own Services
and representatives of the women’s Ser-
vices.
Lady Brooks chose a sapphire-blue
suit, a dyed-ermine coat, and a matching
head - hugging cap of sapphire - blue
velour. To her ensemble of junior-blue
wool Mrs. Hopwood added a curvette
of junior-blue satin bows. The Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. Bernard Evans) wore
a flecked-tweed ensemble in deep-green
and gold, and a high-crowned hat of
gold felt banded in' black-and-white
satin. Mrs. Bolte’s beech-brown tweed
suit was worn with a matching velvet
cloche. Mrs. W. Ryan, wife of the
acting U.S. Consul-General, chose a slim
black wool frock and a high cloche of
black straw and white chiffon. Mrs.
Edgar accompanied her husband, Lieut.-
General H. G. Edgar, and with Mr.
Wesley Ince was his daughter, Mrs. John
Grantley Shelton.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the luncheon given by the Aus-
tralian-American Association at the
Royale Ballroom the guest-of-honor was
Admiral H. G. Hopwood, C. in C., U.S.
Pacific Fleet, who was accompanied by
Mrs. Hopwood. Among the 450 guests
were many officers from the visiting
ships. Behind the official guests was a
large golden eagle linking the flags of
Australia and the U.S., while on indi-
vidual tables were tiny flags of the two
countries. Association-president Sir John
Latham received the official guests, who
also included the Premier and Mrs.
Bolte, Sir Edmund and Lady Herring,
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Cr. and Mrs. Bernard Evans), U.S. Con-
sul W. F. Ryan and Mrs. Ryan, Mrs.
Mark Clements, Lady Dixon (who 17
years ago launched U.S.S. Canberra,
here With the visiting flotilla), Andre
Papp, Capt. W. M. Baumberger and
Capt. D. J. Garrison.
☆ ☆ ☆
A grand example of the hospitality
which has drawn praise from Admiral
Hopwood was that turned-on by mem-
bers of the Junior Australian-American
Association when they entertained the
Admiral, his wife, and officers of the
fleet at a late-afternoon cocktail-party
and buffet-dinner in the foyer of the
Royale Ballroom. Andre Papp, president
of the Juniors, received the guests and
presented Mrs. Hopwood with the replica
of a koala-bear. There were about 100
officers from U.S.S. Halibut, Jenkins,
Taylor and Canberra and over 200 other
guests. Vice-president Barbara Zinnow
and functions-committee convenor Jan
Newman helped receive the guests.
Jean, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Hugh Cameron, of Surrey Hills, has the
attributes necessary for a successful
teacher, including a delightful personality
and a sense of humor. Trained at the
Melbourne Teachers’ College, she is now
teaching in the junior-school of Grim-
wade House C. of E. Boys’ Grammar
School. Jean, who has been hon. sec-
retary of the younger members’ group
of the English Speaking Union for the
past three years, does Scottish country-
dancing and tapestry in her spare time.
At the ball held under the auspices of
the Australian-American Association’s
women’s group at the St. Kilda Palais —
the annual winding-up function to Coral
Sea Week —guests danced under a canopy
of red, white and blue hung from the
ceiling, while at one end of the ballroom
the flags of Australia and America were
centred by a large gilt eagle. . The
Governor and Lady Brooks, the Premier,
Mr. Henry Bolte, and his wife, and the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr.
and Mrs. Bernard Evans) attended.
The C.-in-C., U.S. Pacific Fleet, Admiral
H. G. Hopwood, and Mrs. Hopwood,
were guests-of-honor, and were received
by association president Sir John
Latham, and the two vice-presidents of
the women’s group, Mrs. Mark
Clements and Mrs. Charles Lane,
together with their husbands.
Lady Brooks chose a gown of white
and silver lame brocaded with a rose-
design. Mrs. Bolte’s choice was soft-
blue and pearl-pink brocade-satin, the
Lady Mayoress soft-magnolia satin
patterned with tiny clusters of flowers.
Mrs. Clements wore a bouffant gown of
shell-pink taffeta. A full-length sheath-
frock of spring-green lame patterned in
gold was chosen by Mrs. Lane. Mrs.
William McCann and Mrs. Barry
Harper, the ticket-secretaries, were
also attractively gowned.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Metro Theatre was flood-lit and
there was a guard-of-honor for the
Governor when “Ben-Hur” had its
premiere, at which the film's star,
Charlton Heston, made a personal
appearance. This gala-night celebrated
the centenary of the Victorian School
for Deaf Children, and proceeds from the
night (£3000) were donated to the work
of the school. The Governor and Lady
Brooks were received by Lady Angliss
(chairman of the committee) and the
president of the school's board-of-
management, Mr. F. H. Lonie, and Mrs.
Lonie. Others in the official party in-
cluded Mrs. S. J. Loxton; the super-
intendent of the school, Mr. H. Powell,
and Mrs. Powell; and Mrs. K. Laxton.
Lady Brooks wore a short evening-
frock of sapphire-blue tulle scattered
with matching sequins on the wide skirt,
and a cape-stole of white Arctic-fox.
Mrs. Heston’s ankle-length frock was of
black and deep-blue printed-chiffon, the
skirt featuring soft unpressed pleats.
Mrs. Henry Bolte chose a gold-encrusted
black sheath-frock, the deep-square
neckline finished with an upstanding
collar at the back.
☆ ☆ ☆
Not a play for the squeamish, “One
More River,” by English playwright
Beverley Cross, had its premiere at the
Little Theatre on a night which, though
cold and blustery didn’t stop loyal sub-
scribers from packing the theatre. The
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress were
welcomed by the directors of the Little
Theatre, Brett Randall, his son Peter,
and Irene Mitchell, who produced the
play. Also in the audience were Lady
Coles, Lady Hyde, Mrs. Tristan Buesst,
Mr. and Mrs. Eric Lampe, Mr. and Mrs.
R. F. G. Fogarty, Mr. and Mrs. Roy
Grounds and Mr. and Mrs. John Heath.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Most. Rev. Archbishop Paul
Yu-Pin was guest-of-honor at a buffet-
dinner party given in their Toorak home
by the Consul of the Republic of China,
Mr. K. Y. Leung, and Madame Leung.
Formerly Archbishop of Nanking, Dr.
Yu-Pin left China when the Reds took-
over, and he is now president of a new
University in Formosa. Among the
guests were Bishop Stewart, of Bendigo,
Bishop Fox, the Administrator of St.
Patrick’s Cathedral (Father Moran),
Senator and Mrs. McManus, Senator
and Mrs. Hannan, University Chan-
cellor Mr. Justice Dean, Mr. and Mrs.
John Dynon, Philippines Consul G. C.


Molyneux and his wife, Mr. and Mrs.
Bill Dixon, Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Chan,
Mr. and Mrs. David Wang, and Mr.
Wing Dan.
ft ft ft
An array of white naval caps in the
foyer of English Speaking House in
Toorak Road wasn’t part of the decora-
tions at the cocktail-party given by the
younger members’ group the caps
belonged to the young officers from the
U.S. warships here for the Coral Sea
Week celebrations, who were guests-of-
honor. They were received by president
Ronald Thompson and hon. secretary
Jean Cameron, the latter charming in
a frock of scarlet velvet. Others at the
party were hon. treasurer Betty Nutting,
Beverley Broadbent (in a grey-and-silver
lurex - threaded sheath - frock), Sue
Devereux, Joan Sutherland Smith, Rion
Jennings, Anne Swallow, Laurette Hill,
Janet Wilson and Laureen York-Torr.
SYDNEY
One doesn’t need to have a finger on
the pulse to know that there is a
tremendous zeal at the moment for learn-
ing foreign languages. It’s a symptom
that strikes the eye from every angle.
Italian is a favorite. People take it up
in many instances because they think it
is easy. Apparently it’s easy enough to
begin with, but it soon leads you into
subtleties and intricacies that are rather
daunting.
Spanish is another favorite. If you
know Spanish you are equipped to go to
South America (apart from the air-fare).
German has its devotees (“Why Ger-
man?” is answered by “Well, I haven’t
any German,” as if all the other languages
of the world had already been mastered).
The hardier spirits tackle Russian, and
after a year or so can say, “Lay the book
on the table.” French seems to be rather
passe (pity!), but Chinese is quite smart.
You need a good ear for it, however, as
meanings change with the pitch of the
voice. If you’re tone-deaf, don’t touch it.
So you see, it is getting harder and
harder to keep ahead of the Joneses,
linguistically speaking. The rarer
languages grow commoner daily. Where
will it finish? (Why, that’s it, Finnish!
Don’t mention this to anyone until I’ve
started learning. Then I can bring it out
casually at the next cocktail-party.)
ft ft ft
What a whopping birthday - party
David Jones is having this week! You’re
allowed to make all this to-do, however,
when you’re 122 years of age.
There’s a £20,000 display of indoor-
plants, including orchids and monstera
deliciosa (and probably also that aggra-
vating African violet which shrinks so).
There are also features like a dancing-
fountain which reflects colored lights and
keeps time to the music, bright birds and
even lion cubs! And (more of this
next week) there is a “Dogs’ Fashion
Parade” showing pyjamas, raincoats,
caps, etc., which will benefit the Guirff
Dogs for the Blind Association, and
a cavalcade of fashion which shows
women’s fashions from 1838 until the
present day, including Queen Victoria’s
silver-jubilee dress. Really, it’s the most
elaborate set-up since “Ben Hur.”
Radio and TV star Gwen Plumb makes
her return to the stage in “The Gazebo,”
which opened at the Royal last
Saturday night. Gwen is known to
listeners all over the country who know
the perennial radio-serial “Blue Hills."
as she has starred in it from the start.
Since her return from her five-year stay
in England {where she made a name for
herself in TV) she has featured in three
major panel-shows: “Leave it to the
Girls,” “Life with Dexter,” and “Who’s
Who,” and also “How to Manage Men.”
Her pleasant wit and originality have
also made her much sought-after by
social-committees as a compere for
fashion-shows. In “The Gazebo” ( it’s
pronounced gaz-ee-bo and means a
summer-house in the play), she plays an
upper-crust estate-agent.
The Governor - General and Lady
Dunrossil, by a determined offensive,
turned back and routed the “unfriendly
Australian wog” which declared war on
them last week. So they were able to
keep faith with the Council of Common-
wealth Societies, which gave a reception
in their honor at the Trocadero on
Wednesday. It was well-attended, but
the curtsies and handshakes went through
at 7y per minute, though the vice-regal
couple did not wilt.
Welcoming the guests-of-honor were
Mrs. H. B. Farncomb, Lieut.-Colonel
George E. Colvin, and Mr. W. H. R.
Naylor with Mr. John Gallish, chair-
man of the Junior Council, in the van-
guard. The guests included Mrs. H. H.
McNall, Mr. and Mrs. Bertram Wright,
Lady Sinclair, Sir John Northcott, Sir
Frank and Lady Berryman, Mr. and
Mrs. H. Twigden, Dr. and Mrs. L. J.
Pollock.
First-year cadets formed a guard-of-
honor for Brigadier F. G. Galleghan
and Mrs. Galleghan at the St. Aloysius
College Cadet Corps’ dance during the
week. The Anzac Memorial Hall, North
Sydney, was decorated for the occasion
with flowers, flags, pretty sub-debs and
smart cadets, and there was a good
representation from most of the G.P.S.
and associated schools. Senior Under-
Officer Michael Smith welcomed guests
with his mother, Mrs. M. V. Smith, who
wore a full - length coat of violet de-
lustred satin over a jewelled sheath of
pearl-pink satin. Mary Davey, who was
escorted by Under-Officer Smith, also
wore a full-length dress, white with a
bronze sash and bronze silk coat. In
the official party were Mrs. Ralph
Honner, Captain Skewes, Rev. Father J.
Casey, S.J., Major and Mrs. Read
(King’s School) Major and Mrs. Gifford
(Scots College), Mr. and Mrs. W. Bur-
gess, Mrs. Pat Giffney and Lieut. Molloy
from the Sydney University Regiment,
with Miss Eleanor Dewar.
ft ft ft
The weather stayed bright, though
gusty and windy, for the four-day tour
made by American visitors Mrs. H. S.
Eberhard and Mrs. G. E. Spain (Mr.
Eberhard is president of Cat. Tractor
Co., U.S.A., and Mr. Spain vice-presi-
dent). Entertained by Mrs. R. C.
Gaskell, of Macquarie Street, the visitors
saw the Art Gallery, the shops, the
Macquarie Club and Prince’s. Then
Glen Ascham, the Australia Club,
Taronga Park, Elanora Golf Club, and
Pittwater. Quite a lot of activity packed
into little time, but both ladies looked
animated and fresh when they left with
■their husbands for New Zealand on
Saturday.
ft ft ft
A feature of furnishing-fabrics these
days are those wonderful silks from
Thailand, noted particularly at the Furni-
ture Exhibition. Though by no means
cheap, they tempt the budget with their
amazingly glowing colors. The dyes from
Thailand have always been superior. It
is said that if you send a lock of your
hair to the dyers there they will match
your cloth to it exactly!
Talking of fabrics, the use of terry-
towelling for bathrobes and beach-wear
seems to be the thing. Everyone noted
Muriel Pavlow’s charming towelling-robe
and brunch-coat in “The Gazebo,” and a
recent showing offspring (what’s that?)
fashions by Supertex during the week
showed all sorts of beach-wear devised
from that material. Something to keep
in mind.
ft ft ft
Interesting point about the rose-pink
pure-wool blankets which were air-
mailed to London as a wedding-gift to
Princess Margaret from the Australian
Wool Bureau is that they are mothproof,
shrinkproof and can be boiled. This is
welcome news to those among us who,
though we use all the new-fangled aids
to laundering, still secretly believe what
our grand-mammas told us, “Everything
should be boiled.”


behind in university standards, his
emphasis is all the time on the
academic staff: —
It would be difficult to describe a
typical day or year in the life of, for
example, a university professor.
There is nothing original or contro-
versial in saying that he can, if he
wishes, lead a very easy life and
can do less for a salary which in
Australia is £3500 (Australian cur-
rency) than almost anyone except a
crooner.
Anybody with contact with universi-
ties can provide examples to illustrate
this generalisation, just as he can to
show that there are some professors
who lead a full life—but if they do
their wages will still be the same, and,
indeed, they will probably have a
lesser reputation than one who busy-
bodies out of his own sphere or whose
particular genius lies in being able to
spin-out over many opulent years
pieces of research which could be effec-
tively achieved in a few months. Rowe
avers:—
Although there is no one, under
Australian conditions, to tell an idle
university professor that he is not
earning his salary, it might be
thought that his colleagues would
see to it that he takes a fair share
of the burden. This is not so, since
the professor-god myth and the
perpetuation of the idea that a pro-
fessor is beyond criticism are
stronger than the urge for justice
in a community in which academic
staff, particularly professors, live a
life of great privilege, privilege
unequalled by any other section of
the community whose emoluments
are largely derived from public
funds.
His remedy is the appointment of
wise and experienced deans to adminis-
ter faculties and see that the teachers
are capable and teach effectively. After
their appointment he thinks it would
matter less if Australian vice-chancel-
lors “remained substantially without
authority, incongruous though that may
seem.”
He sums-up with the remarks that
“whatever happens, it should be
realised by academic staff that a uni-
versity is not a comfortable club in
which all members are equal, whether
they doze their days away in the best
armchairs or work ceaselessly for the
welfare of all members... .Egalitarian-
ism is one manifestation of the massed
mind which, surely, is one of the last
things one wishes to see in a uni-
versity.” But egalitarianism is almost
a religion in most Australian uni-
versities.
The Australian professorial salaries
he believes to be too high for appointees
without achievement to show; the Aus-
tralian obsession with salaries among
professors he found to be unique, and
the award system, he thinks, leaves
little or no margin with which to
reward excellence.
The bugbear of administration is
always present and is apt to eat up
the whole of the time of some profes-
sors who are not professors at all in
reality but only departmental managers.
This is all too true. It is not rare
for Sydney students to be unable to
recognise their professors for months
after they matriculate.
Rowe’s book is not the tirade of a
disappointed man. It is a careful,
scientific examination of facts as they
appear from his own experience,
including a student survey over four
years, the results of which speak for
themselves.
Thinking professors are likely to
welcome it, as some have done, more
particularly as it is not merely critical,
but the analysis of an organising expert
leading up to a logical blueprint for
reform to ensure that universities pro-
vide what they are meant to provide
—teaching which turns the student into
an educated being, capable of thinking
knowledgeably and logically, rather
than a parcel of crudely packed foetal
qualification wrapped up roughly in a
diploma and with all faults concealed
under a bright-hued hood.
M. H. E.
"Pink is for Girls"
It is really extremely embarrassing
to a reviewer to be told, as-we are on
the jacket of Juliet Rolleston’s Pink is
for Girls (Angus and Robertson), that
the author was only sixteen when she
wrote the novel. Such an admission
excuses all faults; it tends to devalue all
virtues. It tempts one into unnecessary
comparisons with Colette’s “Claudine
at School” or Francoise Sagan. It
destroys that exquisite, virginal clarity
in which a work of art should properly
be assessed.
When Juliet Rolleston is “daring”
and uses a few naughty words it tends
to make one think how very daring she
is for sixteen; or, rather, since one is not
shockable in these matters, what fun
she is having as she plays the daring
teenager. When she is naive, as occa-
sionally she is. one is not surprised;
and when she shows a remarkable
understanding of adults and their love-
affairs one cannot help wondering what
the younger generation is coming to —
they seem to be quite as advanced as
we were.
When she is funny about schoolgirls
adoring their English-master one is
naturally tempted to think that this,
because it is close to her in time and
out of her own experience, is what she
can do best. When she is as witty and
amusing as any adult, captivating in
her descriptions of Sydney’s Pittwater
and of parties there and at King’s Cross,
and quite brilliant in her portrayal of
characters, whether the formidable
grandmother and resigned grandfather,
the heroine’s charming mother, the
scholarly gentleman whom the mother
somewhat improbably marries or that
most engaging Irishman who can play
the piano with his nose, always there
arises that dimly damaging reflection,
how excellent this is for sixteen.
When the book, though still bright
in talk, goes flat in action in the middle
section because nothing really is
developing, that seems the most par-
donable of weaknesses in a sixteen-
year-old. When suddenly it introduces
a very good plot at the end —the teen-
age heroine thinking the English-master
is in love with her, whereas really he
is in love with her mother —one rejoices
that she has managed to round the book
off and at the same time reflects how
much more, with that as the theme of
the. whole novel, a more experienced
novelist could have got out of it.
And all the time one has. inevitably,
the regret —even the faint indignation:
for literature is not to be approached
as “news” —that everyone will read
this book for the wrong reason: be-
cause it is the work of a daring teen-
ager. not because it is whatever kind
of novel it is.
All this is most unfair to Miss
Rolleston. A bit hollow though it is
in the central section, a bit naive though
it is in odd places, a bit inclined to be
daring for the sake of being daring, her
novel in its light, gay, pleasant way—
the chronicle of the feckless and
amorous mother —is quite an admirable
novel in its own right, by strictly adult
standards. It could have been pub-
lished just as readily if the author were
twenty-six instead of sixteen. Her
youth only gives it an additional charm
and oddity.
One for the Road
John Higgins’s Pull Over, Driver
(Jacaranda Press, Brisbane) is a jaunty
little book about the problems of drink-
ing and driving in Australia, chiefly
intended to protect the motorist
against the policeman and to tell him
what his rights are.
Higgins considerably mars his case
by his convivial illogicalities and
exaggerations. Discussing, for instance,
“the cold-blooded and consistent per-
jury of police witnesses,” he adds that
“In South Australia the conduct of the
Stuart trial shocked the conscience of
the world.” Ultimately it did nothing
of the kind; and a case from the traffic-
courts would have been much more to
the point.
He points out that drivers can be
“blind sober”—i.e., they have bad eye-
sight, etc. —which is true enough, but


SCOUT
for your out-of-print
books. Please send your requirements to
Book Scout, Box 2178, G.P.0., Sydney.
OK
Free search service
does not affect the case of the motorist
who is blind drunk. He is able to be
extraordinarily cheerful about the fact
that tests carried out by the Medical
Research Council in England showed
that 25 per cent, of the motorists
showed “reduced error” after taking
alcohol—that is very nice for the 25
per cent, on the day they were tested
(they might show a different reaction
the next day), but how does that enable
Higgins to be so cheerful about the 75
per cent, who drove worse?
Similarly he is very scornful about
a statement he attributes to the Vic-
torian Police Surgeon, Dr. Birrell. that
drink was “a substantial factor” in well
over 50 per cent, of road accidents;
quoting, in alleged rebuttal, the figures
of the Victorian Statistician which
make-out that “intoxicated drivers that
year [1958] were blamed for only 207
accidents involving casualties, 2.2 per
cent, compared with Dr. Birrell’s and
the Police Squad version of over 50 per
cent.” But 207 accidents involving
casualties, caused by drunken drivers,
is in any case not a pretty figure; and
perhaps Dr. Birrell and the police
were using, as well as a different set of
statistics, their commonsense. There
would be many accidents not involving
casualties; and many in which, though
a charge of drunken driving might not
be provable, alcohol was nevertheless
“a substantial factor.”
There will be few motorists, and
few drinkers, who will agree with
Higgins’s assertion that you can have
“half-a-dozen whiskies” “in some
cases two or three times as much liquor”
> —without harmful effect on your driv-
ing. This reviewer’s opinion, as a
seasoned motorist and toper, is that one
drink is often-enough too many—why
do we take it, if not to pep ourselves up,
to blur our judgment a trifle?—but that
since drink affects every man differ-
ently, and each individual differently
at different times, it is ridiculous and
unjust to use rule-of-thumb “scientific”
tests to determine the degree of
drunkenness and the capacity to drive.
A simple charge of dangerous driving,
when the driver is obviously driving
dangerously, should be all that is
needed; and if the motorist is drunk
in the street, before he gets into his
car, then let him be arrested for plain
drunkenness.
There, however, is the point at which
one comes round to Higgins’s view-
point; for he is rightly sceptical of the
“scientific” tests; and there is much to
be said for his argument that, if charges
of drunken driving are still going to be
laid, cancellation of the licence rather
than a jail-sentence would often be the
more appropriate penalty—“ Today it
is a deadly serious business, under
which, in at least three States, a citizen
can be jailed for six months at the
caprice of a magistrate for his first
offence.”
As for Higgins’s advice to motorists
on whet they should do if a policeman
accuses them of drunkenness: it is very
naughty of him, and he is too much
biased against the police (a nice mess
the roads would be without them!);
but injustices do occur, and these few
simple rules of procedure are some-
thing every motorist ought to know.
In South-east Asia
In The Lotus and The Dynamo
(Angus and Robertson) C. D. Rowley,
an Australian working for Unesco,
describes his impressions of some
South-east Asian countries he has
visited. He confines his observations to
Thailand, Cambodia, Laos and South
Vietnam, although he has travelled
further.
The book starts with the familiar
and misleading assertion that Australia
is in Asia (which it isn’t), but the rest
of it is much more acceptable. Rowley
is interesting on the challenge of
Buddhism to those who “are trying to
develop economic man,” and again
when he talks about trade-unionism as
applied to the Far East, where unions
have never been imagined before.
The best of the book is in the first
four chapters, where the author draws
his conclusions. His aim is to show
the interaction of old values (symbol-
ised by the lotus) and the dynamo of
materialism:—
There were three basic activities
on which the Asian peasant family
depended rice - growing, fish -
production and handcrafts. But there
are no longer enough padi-fields and
developed sources of fish ; and the
crafts are being destroyed or per-
verted by contacts with industrial
countries. The resulting economic
imbalance means increasing poverty
at the level of the rice-farm. This
helps to explain the discontent of
hundreds of millions of rice-growers.
This is disquieting enough, but he
continues:—
Another result of village im-
poverishment has been that a tiny
minority of the hundreds of millions
of villagers have left the village,
permanently or periodically, for the
cities; this has been enough to
multiply three times or more the pre-
war urban populations. Most of
these newcomers to the city have
come there as a last resort.
All these forces acting on the peasant
economy are disruptive, and reach their
climax, as Rowley explains, in the
workers’ suburbs—displacement, mal-
nutrition, families without the essentials
of family life, and children growing-
up lacking security or interests, which
they lost when their parents left the
villages, and without schools to pre-
pare them for a new existence.
It is often in this environment
that the revolutionary leaders of the
new Asia faced the colonial rulers
.... Here some of them, trained in
the West and experienced in the Left-
wing movements of their time could
find in the plight of the workers and
their families evidence for the
Marxist myth not so very different
from that found by Marx himself in
the Manchester of, the industrial
revolution. It was easy to identify
the colonial foreigner with the capi-
talist exploiter, and the urban worker
with the proletariat
This sort of writing is important and
could be developed further. The rest
of the book becomes more the usual
kind of travel-writing: colorful and
interesting enough, but somewhat
repetitive. The photographic illustra-
tions are good and well-chosen.
NIGHT OUT
Two friends talked of dark politics in
light—
Of bombs, catastrophes their lives have
found.
Forgotten cars were waiting in the night
To take them to the fiction of their
homes and land.
Though two men brimmed with facts,
all that was said
Spilled like dull wine that overflowed a
brink
Of glass, and soon was gone. So each
grey head
Did not clear words from smoke and say
what he could think.
Then one man sought a metaphor, a way
That might unravel knots that held his
frown.
The room was deep and wise and heard
him say
“The signposts of the world have broken,
fallen down."
They nodded, paused. A clock frowned
in the smoke
And two men rose to find their hats and
coats
As neat as truth. Directionless, they woke
From words to walk through night and
seek their starry wits,
The comfort of a gate, a path that rose
Courageously. Each man seemed tall and
free.
They had two cars that helped them to
revise
All roads and found them safe as far as
they could see.
VICTORIA.
R. A. SIMPSON.


CITY MUTUAL’S
RECORD YEAR...
In presenting the 81st Annual Report together with the Revenue
Account for the year ended 31st December 1959 and Balance
Sheet as at that date, the Chairman of Directors of the City
Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd., Mr. Henry Morrissey,
made particular reference, during his address to members at the
Annual General Meeting held in Sydney on Wednesday, 11th
May 1960, to the following highlights of the results for 1959.
NEW BUSINESS
9,216 Policies were issued with Sums
Assured of £28,088,820, with annual
premiums of £702,963 —a record for
the Society.
ASSETS
have now increased to £47,686,037.
SURPLUS
reached the record figure of
£2,044,153.
FIRE AND GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
The support accorded by Policy-
holders of this Society’s wholly
owned Company, Perpetual General
Insurance & Guarantee Company
Ltd., has been most gratifying, and
the increase in premium income of
the Company has greatly exceeded
expectations.
POLICIES IN FORCE
new total 149,696, with Sum Assured
of £166,046,026, to which are
attached Reversionary Bonuses of
£20,407,417.
INTEREST RATE
earned was £5-8-0 per centum after
taxes.
BONUSES SUBSTANTIALLY
INCREASED
again for the Bth time in 9 years.
HOUSING SOCIETIES
MORTGAGE PROTECTION
SCHEME
It is also pleasing to acknowledge the
considerable adoption by members of
the Federation of Co-operative Hous-
ing Societies of Victoria of this
Society’s scheme, the aim of which
is to ensure a mortgage-free home
on the death of the breadwinner.
THE CITY MUTUAL
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Incorporated in New South
Wales in 1878.
Head Office for Australia:
60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Henry Morrissey, Chairman
M. John O’Neill, Deputy Chairman
Hon. T. G.Murray
Norman 8. Rydge, C.B.E.
C. A. Ralph, General Manager
THE ONLY WHOLLY MUTUAL ENTIRELY AUSTRALIAN LIFE OFFICE
